
~---------.------~~ 
page 2 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Monday, September 26, 2005 
Jenkins articulates vision for Notre Dame 
President points to Sarin's legacy and charts future course 
By MADDIE HANNA In Focus Wrirer 
University President Father John Jenkins weaved tales of Notre Dame yore into his inaugu­ral address Friday at the Joyce Center, but he built-his presiden­tial vision on the idea of progress and a "bigger and better than ever" University. 
"With respect and gratitude for all who embraced Notre Dame's mission in earlier times, let us rise up and embrace the mission for our time," Jenkins said. "This is our goal. Let no one ever again say that we dreamed too small." 
The "bigger and better than ever" and "dreamed too small" phrases were references to words spoken by University founder Father Edward Sorin after the Main Building burned down in 1879. Jenkins told the story of how a determined Sorin immedi­ately began the rebuilding process a day later. 
Challenge was a key theme in Jenkins' address, especially the difficulty of maintaining Notre Dame's deep roots in ethics and Catholic faith while continuing to branch into the terrain of research and scientific breakthroughs. 
"Notre Dame will provide an alternative for the 21st century­a place of higher learning that plays host to world-changing teaching and research, but where technical knowledge does not out­run moral wisdom, where the goal of education is to help students live a good human life, where our restless quest to understand the world not only lives in hanbony with faith but is strengthened by it," Jenkins said. 
lie described academic excel­lence and religious faith as "two indispensable and wholly compati­ble strands of higher learning." Given Notre Dame's Catholic char­acter, Jenkins said he would devote his presidency to the pro­motion of both ideals. 
Jenkins listed three Catholic principles that he said must guide Notre Dame: the pursuit of knowl­edge for its own sake, the harmo­ny between faith and reason and the role of community and call to service. 
The goal to increase student research efforts was also featured in the address. 
"Complacency has never char­acterized this University and must not now," Jenkins said. "Currently one in 10 of our students partici­pates in a significant research effort. In coming years that num­ber must double, and then double again." 
When discussing the need to increase diversity, Jenkins went beyond racial, ethnic, gender, socio-economic and geographical categories, delving into the some­times-overshadowed idea of reli­gious diversity. 
Former University Presidents Father Theodore Hesburgh and Father Edward Malloy, who bestowed a blessing on a kneeling Jenkins, seemed omnipresent at the ceremony. Event speakers, including Indiana governor Mitch Daniels, thanked Hesburgh and Malloy and commented on the legacy-left to Jenkins. 
"I am compelled to note that Father Jenkins is off to a some­what shaky start," Daniels said. "He has violated the first rule of all great leaders, which is to never follow a superstar." 
Daniels continued by saying Jenkins made his situation worse by following "not one, but two" such superstars. 
Provost Thomas Burish empha­sized the term lengths of Hesburgh and Malloy, which col­lectively spanned a 53-year peri­od. 
Noting that only Malloy had received an inauguration ceremo­ny similar to this one, Burish said the event provided a unique opportunity. 
"The inauguration of a new president provides an apt time to celebrate not only a new leader, but also a historical institution," Burish said. "It provides a time to reflect on what is distinctive and distinguishable about Notre Dame, to reaffirm our commitment to the University's mission and to dream about our future. 
"It is, in short, an occasion to talk about things that matter," he said. 
Some of these matters were addressed at the inauguration. Student body president Dave Baron urged Jenkins to study "paradox," a theme similar to those Jenkins later raised in his address. 
"Father Jenkins, your paradox, like ours, is embracing an institu­tion crafted by other people and taking it as your own, conforming its identity to your individuality, and determining your unique way to be a powerful means for good in this country and the world," Baron said. 


Other featured speakers includ­ed Alumni Ac;sociation president Timothy Brady, Kellogg Institute for International Studies fellow Sabine MacCormack, Faculty Senate chair Seth Brown, Holy Cross provincial superior David Tyson, Board of Trustees chair­man Patrick McCartan and Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy. 
An inaugural procession begin­ning at the Main Building led pro­gram participants and hundreds of onlookers across campus to the Joyce Center. The University band, stationed at multiple points along the route, punctuated the walk with fanfares. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 



Visiting clergy celebrate inaugural Mass 
Above, clergy members gather outside the Basilica of the Sacred Heart before Friday's inaugural Mass. At left, University President Father John Jenkins follows the 
procession to the altar.
•

PHOTOS BY 
By KAREN LANGLEY In Focus Wrirer 
Before the academic procession that drew thousands of academics and alum­ni, before the Convocation and Inauguration ceremony that filled the Joyce Center arena, before the reception and student Inaugural Ball, the events of University President Father John Jenkins' inauguration day began with a simple Mass. 
The alumni, student representatives and academic delegates who received invitations to the Inaugural Mass Friday morning ftlled the Basilica of the Sacred Heart long before the opening rites began. Jenkins served as the presiding celebrant, but Congregation of Holy Cross priests and diocesan priests acted as concelebrants. 
"We begin this day of inauguration, as is appropriate, with a Mass," Jenkins said. "I ask for your prayers." 
In his homily, University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh recounted the founding of Notre Dame by Father Edward Sorin, a French priest who "was filled with zeal at the thought of coming to the new land and spread­ing light in what was often darkness." 
Ilesburgh described Father Sorin's determination to build a great school on the spot where Notre Dame now stands. Sorin saw a frozen lake and a broken­down cabin, and named it Universite de Notre Dame du Lac. 
"It didn't matter that there were actu­ally two lakes there," Hesburgh said. "It didn't matter that he had only $300 in his pocket. He had the gall, or the zeal, to call it not a school, or a college, but a university." 
Aller a devastating fire destroyed the Main Building in 1879, Sorin rallied the 

"I have to say, John," he said, "It is a rich history you are inheriting. There are many after Sorin who have dreamed great dreams for this place. 
"There's only one way to do it," said Hesburgh, the University's longest-serv­ing president. "That is to put yourself in the hands of the Holy Spirit and the Blessed Mother. You will see heart­breaks as well as days of great joy. There will be celebration as well as days of mourning in this church. But with the lloly Spirit behind you and the Holy Mother inspiring you, these will be great years." 
Noting that the community was gath­ered at Mass not just to wish Jenkins well but also to bless him, Hesburgh recited a prayer borrowed from the ordination to the priesthood. 
While members of Jen,kins' religious and Notre Dame communities held many secondary roles in the Mass, members of his family served as gift bearers. 
Father David Tyson, Indiana Province provincial superior for the Congregation of Holy Cross, emphasized the signifi­cance of Jenkins' profession of faith at the Mass' conclusion. 
"It is a profession he has made many times in his life and that we have all made," he said. "But it is important today for John ... For him to make this profession today separates this presi­dency from others, and crj:lates the role of the president-pastor." 
As president of the University, Tyson said, Jenkins must be a teacher and preacher, an advocate and protector of the University's mission. lie must be an exemplar in his role of president, Tyson said . 
"It is indeed a hallmark of this place that the life of the mind and the life of the faith are not in contradiction to each 
community to build an even larger other," Tyson said. KIRSTEN building, this time with a Golden Dome topped with a statue of the Yi[gin Mary, Contact Karen Langley atHOELMER 1-Iesburgh said. klangle 1 @nd.edu 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Game prompts cheers, changes 
Fans find themselves behind different 'W' 
By KATIE PERRY 
AssiMant Nt•ws Ediwr 
Tho highly antieipatnd contnst lwtwnnn Notrn Damn's former lwad football roach Tyrone Willingham and his nnwly­nndnar'tlfl rnplaennwnt, Charlie Wnis, was larkluslf~r-much likn tl1n gamP itsnlf, students said. 
Frnshman Mogan Flynn said shP didn't nxpnrt llwn• would be murh tPnsion lwtwnnn the coadws during Saturday's game at Washington. 
"It is just a football game," slw said. "Tiw playnrs and t:oarhns from both sidns knew that going 
sec IRISH/page 6 

Alternative ad aired in place of 'Candle' commercial during football game 
By KAREN LANGLEY and 
MADDIE HANNA 
News Wrircrs 
Viewers who turned on the tP!evision for Saturday's football game expecting to see the University institutional spot "Candle" were in for a surprise. 
Instead. the University aired one of two "Champion" ads from last ynar, University spokesman Matt Storin said. While the notes of "llern Come the Irish" played in tlw background, the ad fea­turnd photographs of prominnnt Notrn Damn graduates, includ­ing Minnesota Supreme Court .Justice Alan Page, followed by a montage of campus scenes, induding irnagns of the Basilica of' the Sacred lleart and (;olden Donw. The ad concluded with a studtmt's smiling litee. 
Donors join Hesburgh in building dedication 
Hammes family continues its tradition ofgiving 
By BRIDGET KEATING 
Nt·w.,Wriwr 
Friday's dndication of llammns Mowbray llall marked the most recent addi­tion to a campus alrnady hearing the llammes family namn. Family, frinnds, University oiTicials and nwm­hnrs of' tho public gatlwrNl in a r e 1'1 P c t i v e c~~rem on y presided over by University Presidnnt l·:meritus Father Theodore lleshurgh. 
Bnnnfaetors .Jerry and 
In "Candle," a female high school student is depictnd light­ing eandles and praying in a church. The commercial con­eludes with her receiving an acceptance envelope from the University. 
Storin said any speculation that negative feedback from "Candle" prompted the switch was false. 
"This is nothing unusual," Storin said. "We're just rotating once in a while. The 'Candle' ad will run this coming week." 
Storin said while the two "Champion" ads ran last year, the year before last had "four, maybe five" ads run during games. 
"In my time lat the University), we've never run the same spot nvcry week," Storin said. 
Vice president for public affairs and communieation 
Hilary Crnkovich said her ded­sion to run a different ad Saturday was not due to contro­versy generated by "Candle." 
"We ran 'Candle' for the first few games and were pleased with it, but we always like to have a little versatility," Crnkovich said. 
Unlike the "Candle" ad, which focuses on "the concept of Catholicity," Crnkovieh said "Champion" takes a more multi­faceted approach. 
"I think it shows a lot of differ­ent elements of Notre Dame," she said. "It really captures nieely a lot of great aspects of the University." 
Crnkovich said response to the "Candle" ad was mixed, saying, 'There was very positive feed­back and some individuals who have not been as positive. 
"What it has done, which I 
think is wonderful, is elicit emo­tion in people. That essentially is what advertising is supposed to do." 
Sophomore Sean Cullen agreed, suggesting that some people took the "Candle" ad too seriously. 
"I think with advertising there should be a certain degree of poetic license," he said. "Maybe this commercial used a little too much poetie license, but to say this it is a false representation of Notre Dame is ridiculous because only one person was shown the entire commercial." 
Though the "Champion" ad ran during last year's season, freshman Briana Miller felt that it showed a different perspective than typical Notre Dame ads. "I was surprised there were black 
see CANDLE/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students apply to go abroad 
England, Australia, Ireland most popular 
By ALICIA CONLEY 
News Writer 
Though tho application deadlines for l'ornign studios programs don't start until Nov. 15, many students, espn­eially sophomorns, have already bt~gun thinking about tlwir plans for next ynar. And at Notre Damn, a univnrsity with one or the largnst per­centages in the U.S. of under­graduates studying abroad, interested students have eompany-and competition. 
"Around 50 percent of Notrn Dame students go abroad somehow," whnthnr through his oflke or. through another organization such as the Cen tcr for Social Concerns, said Thomas Bogenschild, the director of the International Study Programs. 
The office reviews more than 1,400 applications each year, which requires a large time commitment both on the part of the students and office of the International Study Programs. 
Most Notre Dame students apply to study abroad junior year. Ilowever, some students participating in year-long programs such as An'gers, France and lnnsbruck, Germany go their sophomore years. 
Interested students first choose where they want to 
see ABROAD/page 9 

Do r e n ~~ II am m e s o I' Sou t h Bend, their nephew, Jerry llammes Mowbray of Heno, Nev., and their son, Jeffrey Ilammes of Kankakee, Ill., 
.1:nlebrated this occasion 50 years from the day that Homy and Dorothy llammes, their parents and grandparents, dedicated the original book­store located on South Quad in 1955 with the help of tflen­president llesburgh. The state-of'-thc-art build­ing, which contains the head-
see HAMMES/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 26, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Accidental opportunity 
There's nothing that says, "I real­ly am an independent college stu­dent" quite like taking an impromptu roadtrip with a couple of your best friends. I decided to take advantage 
Anna Fricano 
of this opportuni­ty a couple of weeks ago when 
Sports Writer 

I, along with two of my room­mates, decided to make a weekend trip to Chicago. 
Everything went along wonder­fully for the majority of the trip. Until, that is, we all felt a quick jolt and I soon found out that another motorist had completely ripped the bumper off the back of my car. 
It was about this time when the whole idea of "independent college student" began to lose its charm. The cop took forever to get there, when he did get there he was mean. 
The worst part of it all was that I could not get a hold of my dad. You would have thought that my dad was going to drive to Chicago and put the bumper back on my car the way that I was trying to track him down. And what did he tell me when I finally did get him on the phone? Basically, to deal with it and call him to let him know that it was okay. 
You could think that my own father was doing me a horrible injustice, leaving his youngest daughter to deal with this all on her own, but after all I was the one who was looking for the independ­ent college experience. If I had got­ten in an accident at home, then my dad would have been there to make sense of the forms and insur­ance claims that I'm currently dealing with. 
But I'm not at home; that's the whole point of going to college away from home. Part of moving away is learning how to take care of yourself. 
So for the past two weeks I've been making phone calls to the Cook County Circuit Court, trying to track down someone that has the authority to allow me to fax my proof of insurance rather than giv­ing it .to them in person. I have been on the phone with claims departments, and I had to get out the faithful yellow pages to find a body shop in South Bend. 
It's a good lesson to learn that we don't have to pick up the phone and call our parents every time we run into a minor crisis. Trust me, your parents love you but they are paying a hefty price for you to spend four years growing up. Call them to tell them that you aced your midterm or call them to say hi, but the next time you realize that your light bulb just burnt out, use it as an opportunity to take the next step into becoming an inde­pendent human being. 
It'll pay off in the long run. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF SATURDAY'S FOOTBALL GAME? 









'7 was just glad  "Sorry about  "Darius Walker  "The parts I  "At least they  "Purdue? More  
to see Purdue  the mediocri1Y.  is a 'Hobby  saw, we kicked  have a pretty  like Pur-don't. "  
lose, andAaron  Oose!"  Horse' ofa  [butt]."  stadium to  
Roberts'  running back. "  enjoy.  
foosball  
tournament  
was a lot more  
exciting."  


Lawmaker runs naked through streets 
AUCKLAND, New Zealand -Green Party lawmaker Keith Locke delivered on a bold election promise Sunday when he ran almost naked down one of the busiest streets of New Zealand's largest city. 
Clad only in briefs and body paint, Locke dashed along Broadway in Auckland's upscale busi­ness district of Newmarket while shoppers giggled and television cameras rolled. 
Locke had pledged before New Zealand's general election on Sept. 17 that he would run naked down Broadway if right-wing candidate Rodney Hide was returned to Parliament in the Auckland electorate of Epsom. 
Couples offered financial incentive to reproduce 
PARIS France announced financial incen­tives Thursday for parents to have a third child, hop­ing to boost its fertility rate by helping people to better juggle the demands of work and family life. 
A new measure will award $916 a month to parents who take one year's unpaid leave from work after the birth of a 
third child, Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin announced at the close of a national conference on families. 
It will take effect in July 2006. De Villepin said he believed the measure will appeal to "numerous par­ents" and allow for a "bet­ter reconciliation of profes­
sional  and  family  
rhythms."  
"We must do  more  to  

allow French families to have as many children as they want," the prime min­ister said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
c:: 
Ill 


:c 
!ci: 
Ill 
==
..... 
~ 

c( CJ 

..... 0 HIGH 71 HIGH 71 HIGH 75 HIGH 72 LOW 50 LOW 50 LOW 48 LOW 44 IN BRIEF 

Onesimo Almeida, professor of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies at Brown University, will give a lecture titled "Language -A post Colonial Tool?" Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center. 
Peitro Corsi, professor of sci­ences at the Sorbonne University in Paris, will give a lecture titled "The Biology of Lamarck: Text and Context" at 4:15 p.m. in 214 DeBartolo Hall. It is spon­sored by the John J. Reilly Center's Graduate Program ­History of Philosophy of Science. 
There will be a Post-Graduate Service Fair Wednesday from 5 to 8 p.m. in Stepan Center. More than 50 domestic and interna­tional organizations will be rep­resented. 
All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's senior are invited to Margaritaville Wednesday from 
5:30 p.m. to 8:30 on the shores of the St. Joe Lake on the Notre Dame campus. Drinks will be sold. Tickets are $1 and identifi­cation is required. 
The men's soccer team will face Bradley University Wednesday at 7 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
The film "La Cueca Sola," directed by Chilean director Marilu Mallet, will be shown Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. It is the second in the series "Women Make Movies: a Latin American Perspective" spon­sored by the Kellogg Institute. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 
HIGH 56 HIGH 
63 
LOW 41 LOW 
44 

Atlanta 88 I 70 Boston 87 I 60 Chicago 86 I 68 Denver 71 I 53 Houston 100 I 5 Los Angeles 84 I 59 Minneapolis 69 I 59 New York 87 I 70 Philadelphia 87 I 60 Phoenix 100 I 82 Seattle 60 I 46 St. Louis 95 I 73 Tampa 86 I 78 Washington 89 I 62 


Monday, September 26, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Church leaders' discussion highlights Vatican II conference 
ple every­where arc the same as those of Jesus," Baum said.  'The significance of Vatican II hit me like a chilling earthquake. The Church has  Bishop Hemi De Roo of Victoria, British Columbia is one of only eight sur­viving bishops who  
Guest pan­elist McEnroy is the author  changed for the good and will never be the  voted on the Couneil. He reminded the Council of the initial  
of "Guests in  same.  message of Vatican  
Their  Own  II.  
House: The Women of Vatican II."  Father Robert Pelton Vatican II advisor  "Several petitions were submitted to allow the women to  




Information Meeting 



Perth, Australia 
IFor students in the Colleges of Science and Engineering Onl~ Tuesday,Sept.27~2005 
Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 
5:30-7:00 pm 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
It has bmm over 40 years since the Second Vatican Council, and today the members of the Catholic Church and non­<:atholics alike arn forced to take an honest look at the progress made within the Church since the eonelusion of the Council in 1965. This is just what took plaen on the campus of Saint Mary's College on Friday. 
Over 40 years ago, Popl) .John XXIII had a vision to rejuvenate the Catholic Church by altering llw strueture of the Mass and making the church more approachable to lay p1mple. This vision ultimately rnsulted in the Vatican II. 
"I want to throw opnn the win­dows of the church ... so that we can sen out and the people can see in," .John XXIII said when he addwssnd the dnr!-,')' at the begin­ning of the Couneil. llis primary objnetivns for the eouncil were to 1:rnatn positive change from with­in that would last throughout Lime. 
In order to evaluate progress toward this goal, the College held a two day conference entitled "Vatican II Forty Ynars Later: Legacy, Leadership and Un!inished Agnnda." The week­end was comprised of multiple group discussions open to the public, but the Friday evening discussion -led by f(>rmer CNN anchor .Judy Woodruff-high­lighted the weeknnd's evenl'i. 
Members of the College com­munity and several others from the South Bend area poured into ()'Laughlin Auditorium at 7 p.m. Friday to listen to the hour-long conversation between six guest speakers, all of whom played a vital role in the Second Vatican council. 
Sister Kathleen Dolphin, confer­ence coordinator, briefly intro­duced the panel, which was made up of Father Gustavo Gutierrez, an observer at Vatican II and Notre Dame theology professor; Father Hobert Pelton, advisor to Cardinal Leo Suennens of Malines-Brussels at the Council and Fellow at the Kellogg Institute; Sister Carmel McEnroy, author of "Guests in Their Own House: The Women of Vatican II"; Gregory Baum, oflicial observer of the Council and faculty of reli­gious studies at McGill University; and Martin Marty, official Protestant obsmvcr at the Council and Lutheran minister. 
Prior to beginning the discus­sion, College President Carol Mooney welcomed the audience and panel to the evening's "engaging and interesting" dis­eussion. 
Judy Woodruff remarked that after being raised Southern Baptist by occasionally attending an Episeopal church, she person­ally felt "uniquely qualified" to moderate tllis "critically needed" discussion. 
Panelists introduced themselves by stating their involvement with­in the Second Vatican Council. 
Pelton served as an official advisor to Suenens during the Vatican II. 
"The significance of Vatican II hit me like a chilling earthquake. 
the fact the Church does not offer a wide array of leadership roles for women, the true spirit of Vatican II has been picked up and carried by the women and laity. 
Marty, a Protestant observer at Vatican II, commented that the Council opened the church and sends goodwill to outsiders. lie felt, however, that at tho Council, the bishops were too limited in what they could say and they should have allowed more time for laity to speak. 
Ballin said that today's lay peo­ple are strongly carrying Vatican ll's message by going on peace missions and being advocated f(n· social justice. 
"There is a great cnerf..,')' com­ing from the base of tho Church. It is groat to see what wn can do. There is hope -hope in all we do," Baum said. 
Polton commontod that the key to carrying out Vatican ll's mes­sage is through roaching out to the youth. lie remains hopnl'ully by witnessing the good work that is being donn by tho laity. 
As the conversation came to a close, it was agroed by the entire panel that the carrying out of Vatican II's message is being done from the bottom up. The work of the Church's people is what keeps the message alive and the goals of the laity will eventually work their way up to create changes within the Church il'ielf. 
"I give credit to Saint Mary's College for making these things happen. Hope is what we soc here tonight," De Hoo concluded. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
The Church has changed for the good and will never be the same," Pelton said. 
Baum was appointed by John XXIII to serve as an expert ana­lyst during the Council. He viewed the Couneil as a "controversial conversion of the church into modernity." 
"It was the first time that the Chureh elaimed that the joys, hopes and fears of peo­
During the Second Vatican Council, she was studying with the Sisters of Loretto in St. Louis, Mo., when one of the sis­ters was asked to attend the Council in Rome. 
In contrast to the 2,500 bishops present at the Council, 500 male observers and advisors and only 23 women were invited to the Council. McEnroy was prompted to write her book when she heard that the women present at the Council were originally not per­mitted to speak. 
McEnroy commented on the progression of the Council as more people were invited to be present as the sessions pro­gressed. In the first session of the Council, no lay people were pres­ent. During the second session lay men were invited after the Pope stated it would look foolish to not have any lay persons present, since they were the purpose of the Council. After John XXIII questioned where the other half of the population was -in refer­ence to the absence of women ­the Council invited women to par­
take in both the third 
and fourth sessions. 
speak at the Council. 
One woman was finally permitted to speak. However, her thoughts had to be translated into Latin and read aloud by a male," McEnroy said. 
"We are called to offer the gospel and ourselves to God, to remember all people are equal and to serve God. Every person can be protected by God's grace, and that is the whole message of Vatican II," De Roo said. 
McEnroy said that she is still unsatisfied with the current situa­tion of the role of women in the Church. She is discontent with the fact women are excluded from leadership roles in the Church simply because they are women. 
De Roo remarked that despite 

Application deadline: November 15, 2005 for Fall 2006 only Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 

page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 26, 2005 
small-company big-companyenvironment impact 
Who says you have to choose? 
The Johnson &Johnson Family of Companies, the world's most comprehensive and broadly based manufacturer of health care products, will be visiting your campus. Come discover how our small-company environments, combined with our big-company impact, can open the door to a world of career opportunities. 
Look deeper at the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. 


find more 

www.jnj.com/careers 
Operations/LogisticsJ Quality, R&D, Human Resources, Sales, Finance, and Marketing. Date/Time: Tuesday, September 27,2005, 6:00-8:00 PM Location: Room 100, Center for Continuing Education, lVIcKenna liall 

Johnson & Johnson St>rvices. hx. is a member C Johnson & Johnson Servir.es, inc. 2005. Johnsor1 & Jotnuon companies are equal opportuflity employer'S ol the Johnson & JohnXJn Family of Companies. SMALL-COMPANY ENVIRONMENTr"BIG-COMPANY IMPACT Is a registered tradtomark ot Johnson & Johnson. 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 26, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Journalist targeted in explosion
Bl·:mur. I.Pimnon -i\ bomb rigged to the rar or a promi1wnt journalist for an anti­Syrian television station exploded Sunday, sowring tlw woman's arm and log in the lat­nst in a string or targntnd explosions in Lebanon. 
May Chidilu:, a political talk show host with tho private l.nbannse Broadcasting Corporation, was insido her ear wlwn the bomb nxplmlf'd in Chadir, a town near the Christian port dty ol' Jounieh, north ol' the rapital. l.nbanesn security oflicials and the TV station said. 
l.atn Sunday, Jlotnl Dinu Hospital in Beirut rPportP<I that Chidiac's loft arm and log worn SPVI'rPd in tlw blast and her right leg and pelvis worn broken. i\ hospital statement said shn was sul'l'nring l'rom various injuries and burns all over her body, adding that her vital organs W«~ro "stahln" but would nend ran~l'ulmonitoring over tho next l'nw days. 
Helicopter crash kills five soldiers 
Ki\Blll., i\l'ghanistan -i\ U.S. military lwlir.optnr erashnd Sunday in a mountain­ous arna plagued by Taliban violence, killing all l'ivP i\nwril'.an ernw members. Tlw U.S. military said tlwn~ was no sign it had lwt•n shot down. 
Tlw crash ol' tlw Chinook helicopter is thl' third this year involving tlw large troop-rarrying rhoppnrs that have proved nssl'ntial in battling a rninvigorat<~d insur­gPncy in rnmoln, largely inaceessiblo parts ol' i\l'ghanistan. 
i\ purportnd Taliban spokesman elainwd thn r1d>Pis shot down tho Cll-47 helic:op­t ~~ r, hu t ll . S . m i Ii t a r y s p o k n s m a n Co I. .lamns Yonts said, "lndi1:ations arc thorn wasn't any hostile f'iro." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Bus explosion investigation begins 
l>i\1.1./\S -Fndnral investigators sought ehu~s Saturday in tho burned-out remnants ol' a bus that oxplodnd in a traflic jam and killed 24 elderly nvaeunes floeing llurricarw Bita. 
National Transportation Safety Board spokesman Keith llolloway said investiga­tors would analyzo tlw wreckage for evi­dnn«:n on tho eausn of thn explosion that killml rnsidnnts of a Houston nursing homo who worn !wading inland away from the storm. 
Mark Coopnr, a lawyer for Global Limo ln1:., thn south Texas company that opnrat­nd t.lw ehartnr bus, said Saturday that the eompany was "monitoring" the situation. 

McCain denounces prisoner abuse 
Wi\SIIINCTON -Son. John McCain said Sunday that ahusn of Iraqi prisoners by 
U.S. soldinrs, allngnd anew in a n~port and under invnstigation again by the Army, is hurting thn nation's imago abroad. 
"W1~'vn got to have it stoppod," McCain, 1!-i\riz., said on "This Week" on ABC. "I don't know if thnsn allogations aro true or not, hut lhny havn to lw invostigatml." 
lluman Hights Watch issued a rnport Friday basnd on interviews with a captain and two snrgnants who snrved in a battal­ion of thn H2nd Airborne Division stationed at a military base near Fallujah. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Landslide kills Indiana fifth-grader 
HOMI·: CITY -Childnn1 throwing roeks in a northnw.;tnrn Indiana gravnl pit triggnrod a land­slidn that musnd a trnn to fall onto one of the boys, killing him, polien said. 
Homo City Town Marshal Stove lleltznl said Hyan /\. Con, I I, and live playmates were throw­ing nwks against a 30-foot-high sand dill' when it mllapsml, bringing tho 40-f(>ot tree down on tlw youngst«~r. 
Con, a lii'Lh-grader at Home City Elementary Sehool, wa.<; pronounced dead at the scene, said Jo'loyd Hinehart, deputy marshal in the town about :HJmilns north of Fort Wayne. 
NORTHERN IRELAND 


IRA announces disarmament 
Group submits to weapons inspections; leaders optimistic about peace efforts 
Associated Press 
BELFAST -International wnapons inspectors have supervised the lull disarma­mnnt of the outlawed Irish Hepubliean Army, a long­sought goal of .Northern ln~land's peace process, an aidn to the process' monitor said Sunday. 
The IH/\ permitted two independent witnesses, induding a Methodist minis­ter and a Homan Catholic priest close to Sinn Fein leader Gnrry /\dams, to view tho secret disarmament work conducted by ollidals from Canada, Finland and the United States, the aide to rntirml Canadian Gen. John dn Chastelain said on condi­tion of anonymity. 
The ollien of de Chastelain, who in recent weeks has lwnn in secret locations over­snning the weapons destruc­tion, scheduled a Monday nnws eonfimmce in Belfast. 
The aide told The Associated Press that the Independent International Commission on Dneommissioning news con­ference would detail the scrapping of many tons of lilA weaponry this month at a <:onlidential location in the Hepublic of Ireland. The aide spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of' the situation. 
Both witnesses -the Hev. llarold Good, a former presi­dent of the Methodist Church in !roland, and the Hev. Alex Heid, a Catholie priest-also will state what they saw. 
The breakthrough should smash the biggest stumbling bloek in Northern Ireland's peace process since Britain opened negotiations with Sinn Fein, the IH/\-Iinked party, in December 1994. 
On Saturday, Adams told thousands of supporters in Dublin that IB/\ disarma­mont would have "a huge impact" on peace elli>rts. 
/\dams, a veteran IHA commander, also said Sinn Fein stood ready to make major electoral and diplo­matie gains once the lllA dis­

AP A father and son pass the Irish News newspaper offices in Belfast, Northern Ireland. It was announced on Sunday that the Irish Republican Anny has completely disanned. 
armed. 
Unl'ortunatnly, most politi­cians and analysts agree, the IH/\ move is coming years too late to kiekstart the revival of a Homan Catholic­Protestant administration, the central dream of Northern Ireland's 1998 peace accord. That complex, landmark agreement required the IH/\ to disarm by May 2000. 
Years of' denial and delay have sharpened Protestant distrust of Sinn Fein. Moderates willing to take risks wero trounced in elec­tions by hard-liners. 
The Hev. lan Paisley, whose uncompromising Democratic Unionist Party represents most Protestants 
today, has dismissed tho coming IHA moves as inade­quate. Paisley insists on pho­tographs, a detailnd rneord and a Paisley-approved Protestant dergyman to serve as an independent wit­ness. 
i\ senior Democratie Unionist, Jefl'rny Donaldson, said the IH/\'s apparent refusal to provide any photos and its refusal to use a Protestant minister nominat­ed by his party as a witness meant that many Protestant<; would not fully believe tho IHA moves. 
"I don't think we're going to get that level of trans­parency tomorrow, and I think that's most unfortu­nate," Donaldson said. 

"People want to see what has happmwd ... 
"The witnnssns have hn1m appointed by t.he IB/\," lw said. "It does diminish the credibility of' whatever is going to happen tomorrow." 
The !Hi\ said in .July that its 35-year eampaign to ovnrthrow British rule of Northern lrnland by 1\m:e ­which daimed nearly I,SOO lives bnli>rn iL'i 1997 suspen­sion -was ollidally over. 
The IH/\ said it had eom­mandnd mmnbnrs to "dump arms," but it was vague about whether this nwant every singln onn. This lnl't wiggle room to rntain lirnarms lin· «·.l'inw, intimida­tion and snll'-protnction. 
Bush returns from Gulf Coast tour 
Associated Press 
BATON HOUGE, La. -President Bush on Sunday wrapped up a thn~e­day trip designod to convey hands-on leadership during the Gulf Coast hur­ri~:anes, promising to act on military loaders' roquest l'or a national snarch-and-rescue strategy. 
"It's precisely the kind ol' inl'orma­tion that I'll take baek to Washington to help all of us understand how we ean do a better job in coordinating federal, state and local response," Bush told commanders. 
Between his departure from the White House on Friday and his return Sunday afternoon, the presi­dent attended more than seven hours 
of briefings in four cities about Hurricane Hita. On Monday, Bush is going to the Energy Department to attend a briefing on energy issues related to the hurricanes. · 
The White House says the presi­dent plans to return to the rogion but gave no details about his travel plans. So far, the president has avoided direct contact with areas affected by the storm, making sure not to interfere with rescue ciTorts. 
"Certainly, in the areas that were hit the hardest, they're still doing the damage assessment, there's still some search-and-rescue operations going on," White House press secre­tary Scott McClellan told reporters aboard Air Foree One on its return to Washington. "The last thing wn want to do is get in tho way." 
The bnst ehanen for a look 1:amn during his Air Forcn Orw flight from San Antonio to Baton Houg1~. Tho plane went ovnr Port Arthur, Texas, and Lake Charles, La., bul. flew most of the time above signil'ieant cloud eovcr. 
Over the weekend, tho prnsidnnt spent almost a day at thn lwadquar­ters of the U.S. Northnrn Command in Colorado Springs, Colo. The eom­mand, set up after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, is in ehargn of homo­land security for the military. 
Bush spent Saturday night and early Sunday in San Antonio, never leaving Handolph Air Foree Base. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 26, 2005 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
in, and I think people were mak­ing a big deal out of it for no rea­son." 
Jonathan Floyd, a sophomore, said he didn't think pregame expectations of a dramatic matchup interesting to see them go against 

each other." . Cammie said he thought it was an overall exciting game to watch. 
''I'm from Pittsburgh, so I like the slower, more defensive game," he said. "It was fun." 
Many students disagreed with 
Cammie, however, and felt the game­much like 
were manifested the hyped-up 
"I didn't think [the 
during the game. c I a s h 
"It really didn't Willingham-Weis between seem like there was matchup] was too Willingham much drama," he and Weis­
interesting. I don't like 
said. ''I'm sure was general­
there was s'ome Ty, so I guess it was ly unexciting. 
tension, but they somewhat interesting "I thought didn't really play it seemed
to see them go against
that up on televi­like every­
each other. " 
sion or anything." thing was 
Many students lack! uster agreed that the Michael Cammie perform­cliched scenario of ance-wise,"
freshman 
a battle of old ver­sus new was noth­ing more than unfounded hype. Junior Michael McConnell said the game was "definitely hyped­up." 
"I thought it was-people talk­ing, trying to make the game more interesting," he said. "(WillinghamJ was leading his team, Charlie was leading ours. It really wasn't a grudge match. I think [Weis] and the players made that clear." 
Freshman Michael Cammie was another student who described the game as "over­hyped." 
"I didn't think [the Willingham­Weis match-up] was too interest­ing," Cammie said. "I don't like Ty, so I guess it was somewhat 


Candle 
continued from page 1 
people in it and it was diverse," she said, referring to the student 
in the ad's closing shot. 
The inclu­sion of a minority stu­dent in the ad represents both the stu­dent body and its diver­sity, said sophomore Molly Dawes, who added that the "Champions" ad was a more com­plete repre­sentation of 

"Yes, religion is a big part ofNotre Dame, but it is only one aspect of our school identity. I think it is better to have a commercial that shows all the aspects that makes us Notre Dame. " 
Molly Dawes sophomore 
the University as a whole. 
"Yes, religion is a big part of Notre Dame, but it is only one aspect of our school identity," she said. "I think it is better to have a commercial that shows all the aspects that make us Notre Dame." 
While the "Candle" commercial did not deserve all of its negative hype, said senior Kevin Clock, it did not show as much of Notre Dame as Saturday's "Champions" ad. 
''I'd like to see a brand new Floyd said. 

"The team just didn't seem to into it, and everything wasn't as fired up." 
McConnell said the game was "nothing special." Flynn agreed. 
"It wasn't as exciting as other games, but I think that's to be expected when the opponent isn't as high-caliber as some of the other teams we've played," she said. 
Those students who did not make the 2,000-mile trek to Seattle for the game congregated in dorms, LaFortune Student Center, Legends and other places around campus to watch the Irish improve to a record of 3-1. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
commercial," he said. "I think one of the main selling points is the campus as a whole." 
While the "Champions" ad was a good commercial, said sopho­more Randy Rainosek, it was typ­ical of University advertisements. 
The "Candle" ad showed some­thing unique about Notre Dame. 
Rainosek saw the "Candle" ad for the first time while watching the football game against Pittsburgh on North Quad. "It gave me goose bumps to see that innovative of a commercial," he said. "Seeing it in the crowd with everyone cheering made it feel as if 

there was something dif(erent at Notre Dame." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu and Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
VERA 

BRADLEY'S New Fall Designs are at'ltlp ~h ~h 
grateful to the Hammes Hesburgh at the site of Friday's Mowbray family members." ceremony, expressed his grati­

HaD101es 
"This structure will serve tude to Hesburgh. 
as the new "It means a gateway to the great deal to North side of "We enjoy students our family quarters of Notre Dame the continuous­that Father 
continued from page 1 
coming in and out of 
Security/Police and the ly evolving Hesburgh
the building at all
United States Post Office, is campus," Nanni respects the "unbelievable and every­said. times of the day on the University thing we could have 1-Iesburgh enough to
way to classrooms that 
dreamed and more," said reflected on the perform this 
are located on the
Rex Rakow, director of benevolence of ceremony, NDSP. the donors. third floor. " which high­Close to one hundred staff "You cannot lights three members are based at this look around generations
Rex Rakow
building, one of the most this campus of our family
NDSP director
advanced campus security without seeing 
facilities in the country, he the generosity 
continued. of the Hammes family," 
"We enjoy students coming 1-Iesburgh said. 
in and out of the building at all times of the day on the way to class­rooms that are located on the third f I o o r, " Rakow said. 
L o u Nanni, vice president of university relations. expressed that the 
"It means a great deal to our family that Father Hesburgh respects the University enough to perform this ceremony, which highlights three generations ofour family during this busy time of Father Jenkins' inauguration." 
Jerry Hammes donor 
He said he felt the new building looks less like a post office and security building and "more like a chateau in France." 
J e r r y Hammes, a 1953 Notre Dame gradu­ate, whose parents were shown in a displayed 1955 book-
University is "eternally store dedication picture with 
during this 

busy time of [University President( Father [John] Jenkins' inaugura­tion," Hammes said. 
Kathlyn Hammes Mowbray, mother of four, including Jerry Mowbray, fondly recalled her frequent visits to campus while her sons attended. 
"Notre Dame has done much more for us than we can ever do for Notre Dame," Mowbray said. "While Notre Dame contin­ues to physically progress, the same tremendous spirit is still present. It will always be the same and that is what makes Notre Dame so spe­cial." 
Contact Bridget Keating at bkeating@nd.eduu 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 




INNSBRUCK 
Information Meeting 
With Professor Gernot Gurtler, Director ofthe Innsbruck Program 
~onday,Sept.26,2005 
118 DEBARTOLO 7:00-8:30 pm 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud Questions?-Weber.15@nd.edu Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS

Monday, September 26, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,422.05 +44.02

}ones 
A, 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,453 I48 1M7 2,436,261,840 
'~ 

AMEX 1,720.50 -8.94 NASDAQ 2,110.78 +4.14 NYSf 7,519.86 +4.84 s&PSOO 1,214.62 +4.42 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 13,159.36 -37.21 FTSf I OO(London) 5, 3 85.7 0 +16.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) +0.36 +0.14 38. MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.59 -0.15 25. ORACLE CORP (ORCL) + 1.73 +0.23 13. CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.46 +0.26 18. INTEL CP (INTC) +0.24 +0.06 24. 
Treasuries 

30-YEARBOND -0.20 -0.09 44.l 10-YEARNOTE -0.29 -0.12 41.i 5-YEAR NOTE -0.52 -0.21 39.E 3-MONTH BILL +1.14 +0.38 33.E 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.30 66.5 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.30 470.3 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.00 85.3 
fxcha Rates 

YEN I I 1.71. EURO 0.82; POUND 0.551 CANADIAN$ 1.17 I 

IN BRIEF 
Boeing and union reach agreement 
SEATTLE -The Boeing Co. and its Machinists union have reached a tentative contract agreement, which if approved would nnd a thren-wnek strikn that shut down the company's airplane production. 
Connie Kelliher, a spokeswoman for Maehinists District Lodge 751 in Seattle, con­firmnd the agreement Sunday and said details would be released later that evening. 
About 18,400 Machinists who assemble Boeing's commercial airplanes and some key components walked off the job on Sept. 2, forcing thn Chicago-based company to imme­diately stop its airplane production. 
Boeing Chief Financial Officer James Bell had earlier said the strike could result in morn than two dozen airplanes not reaehing customers this month, although analysts said a strike lasting a month or less would likely not rnsult in serious problems for Boeing. 
Tho two sidns have bonn far apart on issues induding monthly pension payouts and health earn prnrniums. 
Porsche to make VW acquisition 
BEHI.IN -Luxury sports car maknr Porsehe AG said Sunday it plans to acquire a stake of about 20 pnrcnnt in Volkswagen AG, a move aimnd at strnngthening ties between the automakers and preventing a future hostile taknover of Volkswagen. 
Porschn said Volkswagnn has become "a signifi­cant supplier for about 30 percent of our sales volumn" as wnll as "an important partner in devnlopmnnt." The two companies recently anrHmncnd that they, along with Audi AG, were li1rming an alliancn to dnvnlop hybrid engines. 
"With this nngagnmnnt, we want to secure our businnss rdations with VW and also sali~guard in tlw long tnrm a signi!kant part of our future plan­ning," Porselw chinf executivn Wendelin Wimlnking said in a statnrnnnt. 
Stuttgart· basnd Porschn said it hoped thn invnstnwnt would Pnabln it hnad olf any futurn hostiln taknovnr of Volkswagen by investors "who do not havn thn long-term interesL<> of VW as their aim." 
That scnnario muld arisn if the Europnan Court of Justiee ruh~s against a Gorman law that efli:)c­tivnly prnvnnts thn company, Europn's largest autornaknr. from such a takeover. 
L---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


Leaders devise debt-relief plan 
Financial leaders make decisions on cancellation of debt, rising energy prices 
Associated Press 
WASIIIN<;TON 
Financial loaders, wrapping 
up thrne days of talks on 
Sunday, nailnd down a land­
mark plan to wipn out poor 
countries' debt and 
nxplornd ways to limit the 
fallout from rising nnergy 
prices. 
The gap bntwnnn rich and 
poor nations is widening 
amid fresh coneerns that 
high energy costs, exacer­
bated by tho two recent U.S. 
hurricanns, could af'f'oct 
global growth. 
In their meetings, finan­
cial ortieials from around 
the world agreed on dnbt 
caneellation. developed a 
stratngy on energy prices, 
and struggled with other 
eeonomie issues. 
The 1R4-nation 
International MonBtary 
J<und and the World Bank 
held weekend sessions, 
while thn world's seven 

biggest industrial powers AP 
met as a group on Friday. 

International Monetary Fund Managing Director Rodrigo de Rato listens to questions
The debt plan, which 

from reporters at International Monetary Fund Headquarters In Washington on Sunday.
dnared crucial hurdles over 
the weekend, could allow 

poor nations to increase persistence and commit­week. That's vinwed largely ment nailed down was snen 
spending on lighting pover­ment pay off," Treasury as a formality at this point as an important first test of 
ty, improving education or Secretary John Snow said. given that global leaders Wolfowitz's leadership. lin 
buying drugs for lilY/AIDS The money is owed to the over the weekend ironed took the helm of thn World 
or malaria. International Monetary out sticking points and Bank on .lunn 1. Before 
The World Bank's steering Fund, the World Bank and other details to put the plan that, he served as the No. 2 
committee endorsed the the African Development in place. oflieial at the Pentagon and 
debt cancellation deal on Bank. The Group of Eight Anti-poverty groups, was an architect of the Iraq 
Sunday, one day aftnr the economic powers are pledg­which were pressing for the war. 
IMF. ing to underwrite the debt debt plan to be hammered On the energy front, 
"The path to complete plan by covering the loan out this weekend, hailed the finance officials pledged to 
debt relief has now been· repayments lost. action. increase supplies, promote 
cleared," World Bank As many as 20 other "This debt deal will bene­conservation and improve 
President Paul Wolfowitz countries could get relief if fit tens of millions of the the release of timely data on 
said. The action represents they met certain conditions. poorest people on the plan­oil production as a way of 
"significant progress in ful­That would push the total et," said Irish rocker and reducing wild pricn swings 
filling our promise to the amount of debt cancellation anti-poverty campaigner in energy markBts. 
world's poorest people," he to more than $55 billion, to Bob Geldof, who organized Officials "reeognized with 
said. be spread over decades. the "Live 8" concerts this oil that a global problem 
A product of intense inter­"Alleviation of that debt year to put a spotlight on requires a truly global solu­national negotiations over will help achieve a substan­fighting global poverty. tion, with concerted aetion the course of years, the plan tial poverty reduction," IMF "This, as we have always from oil producers and con­would forgive an estimated chief Rodrigo Rato said. said, is only a beginning. sumers alike to take steps $40 billion worth of debt for Snow predicted the But, what a beginning. The necessary to stabilize the at least 18 poor countries -boards of the World Bank deal should be implemented market," said Gordon most of them in Africa. and the IMF would approve without delay," Geld of said. Brown, Britain's finance 
"It's gratifying to see our the debt initiative within a Getting the debt agree-minister. 
Stocks rally Friday as Rita weakens 
small loss Friday. Bonds linished lower, with the yield
Associated Press 
"I think whenever you have some­on the 1 0-year Treasury note rising to 
NEW YORK -Wall Street rallied to thing that's an event that could create 4.25 percent from 4.18 percent finish mosLiy higher Friday, capping off news over the weekend, people get a Thursday. The U.S. dollar was mixed the wnek with two days of gains as little more cautious about putting against other major eurreneies in Hurricane Rita lost strength and raised money on the table," said Susan Malley, European trading, while gold priees hopes that its impact on key Gulf Coast chief investment officer for Malley pullnd back 17 -year highs rnached ear­refineries wouldn't bn as bad as initial­Associates Capital Management. lier this week. ly feared. The market also mulled a profit Friday's recovery rounded off an 
With Hita headed for the Texas coast­warning from Alcoa Inc. and a pair of uneasy wnnk on Wall Strnnt as Hita line -the heart of U.S. oil production discouraging earnings reports from swnllnd into a massive Catngory 5 hur­-investors had braced for a repeat of technology firms Oracle Corp. and rieane Wndnesday and thrnatnnnd the the devastation eaused by Ilurrieane Palm Inc., an early glimpse of thn rnmaining Gulf Coast oil facilities most­Katrina last month. By Friday after­upcoming third-quarter earnings sea­ly untouehnd by Katrina in lat1~ Au~-,rust. noon, however, Rita weakened two son. Stoeks plunged earlier in the wnek, notches to a Category 3 hurricane, At the close of trading, the Dow hammnrnd by mncnrns about an nco­sending oil prices down morn than $2 dropped 2.46, or 0.02 pnrcnnt, to nomic slowdown as oil and gas prices and nasing the mood on Wall Street. 10,419.59, after sliding as much as ndgnd nnar record lnvnls and fi1llowing 
But trading volumn remained light 49.75 in early activity. the Fndnral Heserve's dt~dsion to raise while tradnrs kept an nye on the storm, The broader stock indicators moved the nation's intnrnst rates an II th con­projnctod to strike the Texas-Louisiana higher. The Standard & Poor's 500 secutive time. The Dow posted thrnf' border early Saturday morning. And index rose 0.67, or 0.06 percent, to straight days ol' hefty losses, giving up dnspite a drop in nnergy pricBs, the 1,215.29, and the Nasdaq gained 6.06, morn than 250 points through Dow Jones industrial average posted a or 0.29 percent, to 2,116.84. Wndnnsday. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 26, 2005 

Monday, September 26, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
With more than 30 pro­options on where they can Meyer said she finds the somelimfl in February. 
grams to ehoose frem, set­study abroad due to the application process stressful, Seniors also somf1times par­
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
study, then l'ill out an applica­tion online which is just "two clicks" ofT the main University Web silo, Bogrmschild said. 
Abroad programs are look­ing for students not only with a strong G PA, Bogenschild said, hut also the ability to express their intnrest in studying abroad in a short essay. 
"Tho stat1~nwnt of objnctivos is vnry important," and should not lw taknn lightly, Bognnschild said. 
Applicants must also obtain a letter of recommendation from their rnctor if they reside on campus. 
tling on a destination ean be course offerings in those loca­dil'fieult. However, the pro­tions. grams in English-speaking Emily Meyer, a sophomore countries are environmental always tho most studies major, popular and are said it takes "a "more competi­"The statement of lot of course tive in the sense objectives is very schedule manipu­that there are lation" to ensure
important."

more students she can fulfill her applying," science require­Bogenschild Thomas Bogenschild ments and spend said. a semester
program director 

The London abroad. In program London, a city rece1ves the she would like to most applications followed by study in, there is of'ten only Dublin, Australia, !lome and one science course, physics, Toledo, Bogensehild said. open for science majors. As a 
Students in seleet courses of result, Meyer has now set her studies, such as science sights on either Perth or majors, have more limited Dublin. 
but nowhere near so much as applying to college while in high school. 
Rachel Murphy, a sopho­more who is also a science major, expressed similar opinions about the difl'iculty level of applying to study abroad. 
Abroad applications arc "not as stressful," said Murphy, who is applying for the Australia and Dublin pro­grams. 
Reading through all of the applications received is time consuming, and final deci­sions are not made until first semester grades are filed. This means that students who apply in November don't find out if they are accepted until ticipate in study abroad, though mueh less freq unn tly than juniors. Bogensehild said. lin said that while it is "OK with !his offieol" to let seniors go abroad, they arn reluctant to miss either foot­ball season or graduation. 

Language and GPA requiro­ments for programs dil'l'nr greatly. Locations in Eng I ish­speaking countries don't have any language requirements, as well as programs in Greeee and Egypt, while studying in Hio de Janeiro, Brazil requires "intermediate t.o high proficiency." Sometimes programs in the same country have different policies on pro­ficiency. 
Opportunities to study abroad continually chango, Bognnschild said. For exam­ple, this is the nrst year that the program in Uganda will really bo omphasized as an option for students. For the past several years thore havn been students participating in it, but the opportunity had never before been highly pub­liciznd. 
Another program that stu­dents sometimes over look is Washington, D.C., Bogensehild said. While tech­nically not "studying abroad". while in Washington, students are able to get valuable expe­rience doing internships and experiencing life in the nation's capital. The process of applying is the samn as for any other program, 11xcept that choosing an intornship is also necessary. 
"There is a list of intnrn­ships that students have done bef'orn, but we oncourage stu­dents to look <tround and develop new onos," Bogcnschild said. 
Contact Alicia Conley at aconley I @nd.edu 




Sign up for the SBC Student Plan 
SBC Yahoo! DSL Express + Your local Access line 
as low as 
$ 
75* 
a month for a g-month term! 
•Other monthly rha1ges apply. 

Taxes, other charges and the Federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. For details of additional charges, restrictions and requirements, calll-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.com/u. SBC, the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. ©2005 SBC Knowledge Ventures,l.P. All rights reserved. IN 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, September 26, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Et tu, Notre Dame? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTIIOLLER: Jim Kirihara 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CKIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631·4540 scene.l @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
oBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chie£ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Ob,erver policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 59~ 2·4000} ~published Munday through Friday t'XCC!pt durit~g ('ltant and vacation periods. Asubscription ro The Observer is $100 ft)r one academic year; $15.Corunescmesrcr. 
The Observer is published at; POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addres~ COJ:tl.'lcdons w: 
None Dame, IN 4655-6-0779 Tbt: Observer 
Periodical postage paid ar Notre Dame: ro. Box779 • 
and addidonal mailing offices. 024 South Dining Half 
Nm:tt Oamt+ tN 46-556--0779 

The Ohscrvcr is a ~n~:mher i1f the Associated Press. All reproduction rights art' reserved. 
Notre Dame students have had a lot to be distracted by lately. Whether it's been trivial bickering over shirt colors and television commercials, excitement over the early success of a new football 
coach, or hoopla sur­rounding the inaugu­ration of a new uni­versity president, these distractions have gotten us to ignore the real crisis facing the Fighting Irish: 
We've been back­


stabbed by the very administration that  Joey Falco  
claims to be the guid­ing light and caring  Forty Ounces  
mother of the "Notre  
Dame Family."  .  

For over a century, Notre Dame prided itself in offering a familial environment in which students were given the rare opportunity to become brothers and sis­ters-not only in Christ, but in Carroll, Zahm, Cavanaugh, and Pangborn, as well. The key to this unity, of course, was that it did not take place in a rickety old house with Delta Gamma Bojamma written on its outside and naked fresh­men in robes being spanked on its inside. The Notre Dame community has always been formed within the welcom­ing, loving and tolerant walls of its resi­dence halls, where students have histor­ically been guaranteed four years of life, learning and lasting friendships. 
Lately, however, the unfortunate push and pull of off-campus absurdities and on-campus fallacies have left students wondering if they misread the welcome mat laid by the university in front of its incoming freshmen. 
Case in point: Irresponsible enrollment increases over the past several years have left residence halls packed to the brim this semester. So packed, in fact, that in some dorms (namely O'Neill and Keough), doubles have turned into 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
triples, triples have turned into quads, and study lounges -the supposed refuge for the academic-minded stu­dents who keep Notre Dame near the top of the national rankings each year ­have been eliminated to clear space for more tuition-paying freshmen. There have even been reports of a case in O'Neill Hall where two students of aver­age height and a 6'7" football player (football, mind you) are crammed into a tiny, former study lounge! Now that is downright sacrilegious! 
These uncomfortable conditions that would make a sardine can feel spacious have even prompted ResLife Assistant Director Scott Kachmarik to admit, "Students want to live on campus. But the reality is that we need students to eventually move off campus. I need at least 1,600 students every year to move out of their residence halls." 
Okay, understandable. Students are constantly moving off campus at schools across the country, and it seems reason­able that the "Notre Dame Family" and the relationships fostered within its resi­dence halls can extend to houses and apartments in the South Bend communi­ty. 
This situation might even be preferred by the women of Notre Dame who live in the unreasonably strict and constraining environments of some female dorms that have yet to grasp the concept of familial unity that makes the men's dorms so desirable. 
If, in fact, the "Notre Dame Family" truly is forced to extend throughout South Bend because of residence hall cramming, one would expect the univer­sity to take extra care to ensure that those students forced into exile off-cam­pus would still be able to maintain their familial relationships with the on-cam­pus community. In a collegiate setting, of course, this would customarily take the form ofinviting over one's former resi­dence hall brothers and sisters to drink and be merry on a Friday or Saturday evening. 
That was, of course, until the South Bend Common Council and its disorderly house ordinance amendment emerged this summer, giving landlords the incen­tive to evict off-campus students after a single noise violation. In essence, this cruel attempt to strike back at the Notre Dame student body while it was away for the summer actually served to fur­ther isolate the 1,600 students that ResLife "needed" to move off campus from the rest of the "Notre Dame Family." 
In this case, one would certainly have expected the administration to step in on behalf of the loyal sons and daugh­ters of this university to ensure that the South Bend Common Council did not manage to divide the "Notre Dame Family." 
But it didn't. 

While the Common Council spent the past month bashing Notre Dame stu­dents, accusing us of "being wealthy and fornicating," "poisoning [students! to death," and a number of other exagger­ated lies, did the University come to the aid of its exiled sons and daughters? 
Of course not. The only notable adult voice on the side of Notre Dame students during their summer absence was local landlord Mark Kramer. The University, on the other hand, after essentially forc­ing 1,600 students to move from the safety and security of their residence hall families, did practically nothing to ensure that the "Notre Dame Family" would be able to survive this schism caused by the Common Council. 
Welcome to the Notre Dame Dysfunctional Family. 
. Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contact­ed atifalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL
Megan O'Neil Matt Puglisi Kelly Meehan Chris Khorey Peter Ninneman Anna Fricano How have you gotten in Viewpoint Scene 
trouble at Notre Dame? 
Laura Sonn Molly Griffin Graphics Graham Ebetsch Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
·~ s·'u··h···· mit· l L 8 ll'e.. ·r \
I ··.....·· '... .... ell« : Q .... /t ·.·.. .... .. ..• I.. "Patience and perseverance have a magical effect before which difficulties disappear and obstacles vanish." to tbe Editor at I John Quincy Adams former president 
www.ndsmcobserver.com ~ 
p 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, September 26, 2005 page ll 
lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Many gods, one Caesar 
Thursday's First Annual Notre Dame forum gives us great insight into how the Jenkins administra­tion will likely manage conflicts and challenges from students, faculty, staff, community members and critics of Notre Dame in the coming years. The Observer's Friday coverage of the panel ("Panelists discuss the global role of religion") as well as the protest outside gives us ample evidence to believe that the Jenkins administration is pursuing a new­age management strategy prevalent at many liberal col111ges and universities, namely engineered inter­faith dialog from above. When important global conflicts such as the anti-colonial revolt in Palestine, resistance to the war in Iraq or the dis­sent of laity in the Church make themselves felt on campuses, administrators often rush to have a polite "dialogue" about it, very narrowly defining the terms of engagement along lines suitable to protecting their own authority. Thus they blunt the edges of meaningful alternatives and shut out voic­es which they label to be "extremist," "self-right­eous" or "overly disruptive." 
Notre Dame Professor Lawrence Sullivan is right in saying that "tolerance is based on 'let's all get along, let's not bring up anything serious."' When religious challenges emerge to the authority of campus administrators or the authority of the U.S. Empire and ruling elass that they serve, adminis­trators often run to throw together a panel of rep­rnsentatives of "diverse" religious groups who can manage the tonsion better than the white guys in eharge here. Tho meaningful diversity of these hand-picked leadnrs is bombastieally emphasized, yet in reality they all have one thing in common. They share a general politieal fidelity to status-quo values like "the American way of lil'e" (read: the racist colonization of the Middle East) or "prosperi­ty and freedom" (read: the unrestrained e,xploita­lion of the poor) or even "helping the poor" (read: the plannnd exploitation of the poor justified as an ad on their behalf'). 
Sullivan reminds us that "People in their guts live on serious issues," but at the forum some of the most serious issues were left glaringly untouched. For instance, nobody ehallenged Naomi Chazan when she claimed that Israel is a "demoeratic state with a Jewish majority." Nobody pointed out that this white, European majority was artificially creat­ed through a process of colonial settlement, ethnic cleansing and apartheid, predicated on the "trans­fer" of hundreds of thousands of indigenous Palestinians from their homes. Nobody pointed out that Israel is hardly a democracy since Arabs are second-class citizens within it. Nobody challenged the right of Israel to exist as a state based on the supremacy of one ethnicity, race and religion at the expense of another. The Intifada, the noble attempt of Palestinians to seek dignity and self-govern­ment, was portrayed as a problem and a threat to dialogue. Yet despite all of this talk of pluralism, nobody suggested that we fight for an actual demo­cratic government in Palestine where Jews, Arabs, Muslims and Christians can live side by side as equals, something that would, pragmatically, require the overthrow of the Zionist state as cur­rently constituted. 
I know there are some conservative people on this campus who would like to seize on these comments and say "look, it's the fault of the Jews, the Jews are behind all of this!" To counter such anti­Semitism, allow me to draw attention to the fact that Israel is not the only example of a beautiful religion warped and twisted to become a bureau­cratic state. So is Vatican City. The Catholie hierar­chy itself is known to repress meaningful chal­lenges to its authority. Yet these challenges abound, and it was telling that only a few of them were mentioned in the panel, in a cautious and almost anemic way. Again, polite dialog: "Let all voices be heard, especially voiees that aren't saying any­thing." Meanwhile, outside, the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests (SNAP) protested the fact that the Catholic representative on the panel. Cardinal Hodriguez, had denied the reality of the 
U-WIRE 
An argu111ent for a progressive energy policy 
Th•~ rocont disaster in the Gulf' has forced Anwrkans to eonsider a variety of social, political and m:onomie challenges that faee our nation. While tho majority of media coverage has focused on the human tragedy eausnd by the hurricane, 
•mn cannot ignore the myriad surrounding issues. Most Rachel notable f(>r students on tight Cohen budgeL'i is thn huge spike in gas 
The Student 

prices rnsulling in large part 
Life

from Katrina and the devasta­
Washington

tion it has eaused. 
University

Dnspitn President Bush's decision to open the Strategic Petroleum Heserve, a 700-million barrel stockpile of oil stornd underground in Texas and Louisiana, the ennrgy crisis looms. The Heserve does not pro­vide the rnlined form of oil used in gasoline, and tlwrnforo is not expected to do mueh to ease prices at tho pump. The oil refineries in the Gulf Coast region, where ten percent of our nation's oil is relined, wem horribly damaged; many will romain out of operation for months. 
Though gas prices have begun to decline slowly as thn roeovery and restoration ell'ort proceeds, they remain far above recent averages. Even those of us without ears feel the burden of high oil costs in the form of skyroeketing prices on airline tiek­nts and increased cost of utilities. Some eeono­mists fear that such a rise in gas prices may lead to general inflation, as the priee of produeing all goods rises due to sueh high energy costs. When prkes rise. our heavy reliance on oil hurts us wherever we go. 
Thnre are many arguments against oil and for renewable energy. This horrible event is a reminder of yet another argument: not only is our oil supply finite, but it is also highly sensitive to nnvironmental, political and economic fluctuations around the world. Even ignoring the cogent envi­ronmental arguments against continued reliance on oil, nobody can ignore this dear and detrimen­tal economic impact. 
The energy debate sparked by the hurrieane is already heating up. Some politicians are beginning to rally around the conservation and renewable energy cause, even as oil companies attempt to use Katrina as an argument for increased drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and Outm Continental Shelf. 
Thankfully, many Amerieans are reacting to the astronomical oil prices in a positive way; employ­ees are carpooling to work, students are walking, and people are curbing their use of energy in the home. A'> usual, college students are taking initia­tive to efl'ect a change. The Wash U chapter of Project Democracy has recently chosen to take on an environmental initiative that will encourage the university to use part of our tuition money to invest in renewable energy on campus. Perhaps Katrina will wake us all up to the costs, both eco­nomically and otherwise, of our reliance on oil and spur interest in a more progressive energy policy. 
There are many lessons we should take from this disaster, and one of the most important is the need to continue research in renewable energy while curbing our use of traditional energy sources. Such a progressive energy policy is some­thing we can all support, both on our eampus and beyond. 
This column originally appeared on Sept. 23, 2005 in The Student Life, the daily publication at Washington University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
abuse of children by claiming the seandal was engi­neered by a media "more reminiscent of Stalin and Hitler." Sure, Catholics have historically been oppressed by U.S. official society, but we are also oppressed by our own leaders; SNAP pointed out that "We are the faithful Catholic sons and daugh­ters who were raped and sodomized by priests that our parents trusted." With classic administrative finesse, the director of the Kroc Institute moved in with the claim that Rodriguez's comments on the scandal "did not pertain to the forum's topie." Again, Interfaith Dialogue allows no room for meaningful challenges to the authority of those hand-picked from above to represent our communi­ties. The representatives of each faith are ehosen through loyalty oath: they must pledge to manage dissent from within their own peoples, in the name of peace and toleranee. This, in addition to being straight, seems to be one of the "professional" qualifications Rodriquez advocated in sereening future leaders of the Catholic Chureh. 
Is this Dialogue? Diversity'? Democracy'? Or is it more reminiscent of the civil religion of Home where everyone was allowed to worship whichever God they chose as long as they also put a pinch of incense on the altar of Caesar? Is Notre Dame a democracy, or is it a Homan colony, a city-state governed by this kind of "tolerant" oligarchy?, To celebrate his inauguration, Father Jenkins invited people of many faiths to ask "Why God?" But is he expecting us at the same time to pay homage and burnt offerings to other revered symbols? The Notre Dame logo? Police and security? \rishness (read: whiteness?) The American flag? Needless to say, the fundamentalists are not the only ones who may refuse this new-age liturgy in the years to come. 
Matthew Hamilton graduate student O'Hara-Grace Sept. 24 
A corrisive im.age 
Society today is very influential to everyone exposnd to it. It is a molding tool used especially to a lot of teenagers. Many movies, music videos and magazines have taken their part of breaking down the self­esteem of women. 
Whenever I see a music video, it's always the same messagn. I notice how the women are dressed and I cannot imagin•1 ever doing something like that and how the Sharday women themselves don't have any pride or dignity. Cruel\ Barely wearing anything and dandng to songs that 
Daily

would degrade me doesn't make sense to me. By 
Evergreen

doing this, one is saying that they agree with tht1 
HSU
words of the song. 

This is a continuous eyele and one of the reasons that it has lasted so long. People do not want to be diflcrent or ehal­lenge what is set before them, instead they just go with the flow. 
The audience of rappers and R&B singers look at the main pidurn: being rich, having more ears than you ean drive and being a pimp. Young people are looking up to these stars and want to beeomn what they see. 
These artists set trends through the words thny say, the things they do and the way they act. What does it say when the celebrity does something and does not have to face the consequences? Teenagers will see this and believe they can act the same way. 
If you look at magazines aimed at the ages of 13 to 25. many of them have stories on how to get your erush to be your boyfriend, tips on what to wear, how to get a guy's attention or how to lose weight in seven days. This is good for selling magazines but not lor young girls who are absorbing thL'i information. 
None of the important issues are being cared for in this situation. What are young girls going to do when they turn into women? Talk about how they got their husband using the 10-Step Rule? I don't think so. 
We need to spend our time reading from a souree that is worth reading. Millions of teenage girls and young womnn arn being allhet­ed. Magazines tell us what to wear, how to look and some toll us that we do not look "right," making young women feel inseeure about themselves when they shouldn't. 
This is where so many problems begin. 
This column originally appeared on Sept. 23, 2005 in the Daily Evergreen, the daily publication at Washington State University. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, September 26, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Origins of krumping explored in 1 Rize' 
By COURTNEY WILSON 
Scene Critic 
Leave your biases toward the tradi­tional documentary behind. RIZE exudes the passion and exhilaration of South Central Los Angeles' most inspired street dance, minus the commentary of studied academia or prolonged narration. 
Director and Producer David La Chapelle lets all intrigue rely on the dancing and the dancers themselves. Intentionally or not, he stimulates the viewer's own inquiry without any forced study or social stance. 
A well-known music video director within the hip-hop world, La Chapelle shows strength in his visual presentation above all else. The magic of this docu­mentary is not reflected in the words or the speech but in the vitality and the truth of the dance itself. 
The film follows two· teams of dancers whose self-declared purpose and passion lie in the creative stimulation of their highly intense dance. Initiated by the motivations of central character "Tommy the Clown," a hypnotic dance subculture has quickly erupted. 
A former drug dealer in what many consider to be one of the most violently dangerous neighborhoods in the country, Tommy finds a youth-inspired route of escape. What begins as a birthday enter­tainment act transforms into an alterna­tive to South Central's most infamous street gangs. 

Critics noted La Chapelle's lack of attention to the greater social and politi­cal problems surrounding the crime­stricken neighborhood, as they are seemingly .pushed into the background of a somewhat superficial visual produc­tion. Logically, however, the characters remain quiet on the subject of their neighborhood outside of what is general­ly understood. 
It seems as though the movie is some­what hesitant to open up about the char­acters' entire experiences, as it could prove threatening to their real lives out­side of the focus of the camera. The film does, however, put a positive spin on life beyond their downtrodden experiences and focuses mainly on the artistic expression in the dancing and the friendships which encourage them. 
The expanding circle of more than fifty "clown groups" all clearly stem from the dance's creator, "Tommy the Clown." Moving from what may be considered another cheap imitation, a few of the groups evolve to create a distinct and individual style of their own. Perhaps the most notable and most focused are the former "Clowners" turned "Krumpers," whose interest is in a more primal, frantic style of dance which involves intense speed and can some­times look like a sort of self-brutality. 
La Chapelle seems to allude to some interpretations of the "krumping" stylis­tic origins, through his introduction of historic African-American riot footage and the placement of several African tribal dance clips. 
The cinematography in the movie is almost as intense as the dance itself. La Chapelle does an amazing job at captur­ing the emotion in the movements. The images of "krump" characters Miss Prissy, Dragon and Tight Eyez, soaked in sweat and gyrating against the backdrop of a perfectly clear sky are visually thrilling. The characters are intriguing with their passionate energy and raw creativity. "Krumping" is what Dragon describes as his "ghetto ballet." Their dance of expression will leave you amazed. Whether they are "clowning," "krumping" or doing the "stripper dance," you might just find yourself wanting to know more. 

Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 

'Mad Hot Ballroom_' a lively docum_entary about dancing 
each school presents a team of five cou­By MICHELLE FORDICE ples to dance, one couple for each dance 
Scene Critic 
and a fifth alternate couple. 
The students go from thinking that the 
The word "documentary" still reminds swing came from Africa and complaining many people of stodgy old teachers and that their arms hurt to being competent, long minutes in a dark classroom waiting and in some cases beautiful, dancers. for the movie on amoebas to be over, but Some of them strive to win the competi­successes such as "Spellbound," "March tion, while others are content to go with of the Penguins" and "Super Size Me" the flow and simply learn. By the end, all have brought the documentary back into have learned the pressure of competi­vogue. tion, the importance -and drama -of 
"Mad Hot Ballroom" is another success teamwork and the determination needed of the documentary genre as it enter­to make it through tough times. tains and enlightens with a broad look More than a documentary on learning into the world of three classrooms of stu­how to dance, "Mad Hot Ballroom" dents learning how to dance. The audi­allows the audience to enter the lives of ence won't be able to leave the theatre urban pre-teens and to hear their without having their emotions pulled thoughts. The students are as varied as from one extreme to the other. could be imagined and include students 
Since 1994, the American Ballroom that represent different ethnicities, Theatre's Dancing Classrooms program financial situations and neighborhoods. has allowed over sixty inner city New They come from the more upscale and York City public school's students to multicultural Tribeca to the impover­learn to dance without the need to pay ished Washington Heights, which is for lessons. "Mad Hot Ballroom" follows infused with the culture of the the kids of PS 112, PS 115 and PS 150 as Dominicans who live there. performer, learns English as he learns to The documentary's inclusion of the they learn the meringue, fox trot, swing, The students discuss everything from dance, while the irrepressible Tara prac­outside lives of the students makes the rumba and tango. Eventually, they par­teachers who "don't even understand tices for hours in front of a mirror just to audience sympathize with the losers and ticipate in the Rainbow Team Matches, a [the subject they're teaching]" to gay make the team and jumpstart her dream celebrate with the winners. One cannot competition among the schools in which marriage. When faced with their oncom­of being a Hollywood star. All of the stu­help but laugh as Michael laments being 

1Mad Hot Ballroom' 
.,i) ~), >""l -,' ) Jt)
:;jJ~Jld -;.,jJ~j:J Jlj3 

Director: Marilyn Agrelo Writing Credit: Amy Sewell Starring: The Students ofNewYork's PS 112, PS 115 and PS 150 
ing puberty, some of the boys talk about dents reveal an understanding of the paired with a girl a foot taller then he is, "growing hair in weird places," while world that most don't expect from fifth understand another boy's feeling of con­many of the girls remark that they fear graders. fusion after losing or cheer with the win­getting their shape because of the looks Viewers of "Mad Hot Ballroom" are ing team as they lift up their trophy. they get from older men, some in their forced to look at the complexities and "Mad Hot Ballroom" is a celebration of own homes. A group of friends discuss hardships of the lives of these children, life and learning that will leave you the effects of divorce on the family. Over but they are simultaneously reassured by uplifted, amazed, and most of all, danc­foosball, three boys ponder that unfath­the students' determination to succeed ing out the theatre. omable thing called a girl. and not fall into drug dealing and gangs 
All of these students come from very through their own hard work and choic­Contact Michelle Fordice at different situations. Wilson, an amazing es. mfordice@nd.edu 

NSIDER 
O
THE 

Monday, September 26, 2005 BSERVER Notre Dame 36, Washington 17 
Willed past Willingham 
Irish push distractions aside, improve to 3-0 on road with 36-17 victory 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writrr 
For 60 minutPs Saturday, Notrn Damn was abln to trna! playing against Tyrone Willingham as just another gamn. 
Tlw Irish sncondary apJHH~rPd vulnnrabln at best, and tlw tnam's offpnsP sput­lPI"IHI narly in the rnd zorw in front of 71.472 fans. But Notrn 
I> a 111 n (:~ -I ) o v f' r powP r f' d Washington at !Iusky Stadium, :H,-17, rPbounding from a diffi­cult homf' ovnrtimn loss to Michigan StatP and winning 
handily against  its  formnr  
roarh.  
ThP Irish rose to No.  I:~  from  

No. I(, in tlw Associatnd Pmss poll with thn victory. 
C) uartP r back Brady () u inn (:~27 yards, touchdown) and linnbarknr Brandon lloytn (night tacklns, five solo) joinnd a mass of Irish playnrs who found first-yiHLr Washington­roach Tyrone Willingham on tlw fiPid following the game, nmbra1~ing and shaking hands with thn man who onee ran tlwir program. 
"It's good to sne him," lirth­ynar Jinnbacknr Corey Mays said, "but the focus has really bnnn on us and getting bnttnr and going out and getting a win." 
This was no morp, evident than in thn fourth quartHr, wlwn Notrn Dame sealed its win with a play Washington had used to victimize the Irish all artPrnoon. 
With H:4X remaining in the fourth quartnr, Notre Dame roehd thn lluskip,s to slenp with two rushes by backup tailback Travis Thomas, Silt­ling up a 52-yard touchdown strike from ()uinn to wide rnenivnr .JnJT Samardzija (carnnr-high night catches. 164 yards). 
Thn long bomb widened the margin to 29-3 Notrll Damn, evPn though Washington was sntting individual rncords throughout the day on offense. 
lluskins receiver Anthony Husso caught a earner-long, :JIJ-yard pass against Irish cor­rwrback Mikn Hiehardson on tlw ganw's lirst d rivn. Huskins rnrnivnr Marlon Wood nvnn madn his first carenr rncnption on a 61J-yard, second quarter toss. 
And though lluskins quarter­back Isaiah Stanback throw for a l'.areer-high :~53 yards on tlw day, Washington did not find thn end zone until h:O I rnmairwd in tlw fourth quartnr. 
Washington fullback Mark 

Palaita scored  on  a  1-yard  "I thought it was  a  typieal  Washington negated  a  40H­ 
touchdown  run.  and  wide  bend but don't break perform­ yard passing performance with  
receiver Craig Chambers (fivn  ance  by  our defense," Notre  four turnovers in Notre Dame  
catchns, 127 yards, one touch­ Dame eoaeh Charlie Weis said.  territory.  
down) made  a  41-yard touch­ "They obviously gave  up  a  The Huskies' gamn-opening  
down eateh at the 2:26 mark.  bunch or yards in the passing  drive went eight plays (seven  
But Notre Dame's Thomas  game. You've got to give a  lot  passes) for 82 yards, but Irish  
punched in  an  11-yard  run  erodit  to  Washington,  but  the safety Chinndum Ndukwe  
with  3:26  remaining  and  !their[ turning the ball  over  -stripped Chambers of the ball  
ensurnd  Notre Damn's third  and IourI getting the ball baek  and recovered.  
win in  as  many ganws on  tho  knpt the game from slipping  Notrn Dame muiTnd a scoring  
road this season.  away from us."  attempt of its own  on  tlw fol­ 

lowing drivn, wlwn Samardzija was unable to handle what lw called "a bad snap" on a 42­yard f'inld goal attPmpt. With :02 rmnaining in thn first quar­ter following a ChasP Anastasio punt blork, Irish kickm· 1>..1. Fitzpatrirk nailPcra 25-yard field goal for a :~-0 Notrn Damn lnad. 
Stanback tlwn dirnctPd a Ill­play, 70-yard drive that nndPd with a 27-yard t•:van Knudson f'inld goal at tlw 9:52 mark of thn sncond quartPr, tying tlw gamn 3-3. 
Notrn Dame followed. howev­er. with a 10-play. SO-yard drivn that endnd in a sh irty 17­yard touchdown run by Irish ru·nning back Darius WalkPr ( 12H yards rushing. 20 yards rnc1~iving, touchdown). 
Continuing with tlw sloppy thomn of' thn first half', Fitzpatrick rnissnd t.lw point­afll~r-try wlwn Samardzija lost eontrol or tlw hold and tlH' hall laid flat. 
Washington appnarnd to rebound qui1~kly and gain momentum with Wood's f'irst earner reception down to tlw Notre Damn X-yard line, but Irish cornerbaek Ambros1~ Wooden (team-leading ninn tackles) intercnptnd Stanback on a rollout pass to thn loft side of tlw end zone for a touchback. 
"!Washington! threw a lot of different stuff at us that we hadn't seen," strong safety Tom Zbikowski said. "They were shifting a lot, but when they got in the rnd zonn, we stopped them. We got turnovers whnn it eountml. We came up big when we needed to." 
Fitzpatrick convnrtod a 39­yard field goal beforn tho half to send the Irish into the loek­er room with a 12-3 lead. but the Irish were stopped on fourth down on consecutive drives to open thn second half. 
Mays, however, forced a Kenny James fumble and recovered at the Notre Damn 32-yard line to givn thn ofTensn the hall. Quinn hit Samardzija for a 43-yard pass that began a 7 -play, 6X-yard seoring drive, ending with a 2-yard touch­down run by running back Hashon Pownrs-Nnal, his fourth of the season. 
Fitzpatrick's third of t.hrno f'ield goals, a 25-yardor, opened fourth quartnr scoring and gave tho Irish a 22-:{ !Pad at thn I0:46 mark. whil'.h last­ed until Samardzija caught his touchdown pass. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.cdu 
player of the game 
Brady Quinn 

Quinn completed 25-of-37 pass attempts for 327 yards and a touchdown. with no turnovers and a few impressit'e quarterback sneaks. 
stat of the game 
4 

Consecutive games Irish running back Darius Walker has gained roo yards rushing to begin the season. a Notre Dame record. 
play of the game 
Chinedum Ndukwe's fumble force and recovery 
The free safety halted Washington s 82-yard opening drive at the z -yard line with the strip. 
quote of the game 

"We're going to mooe on ... and I wish /Washington/ nothing but the best, butit:., time for us to put that behind us." 
Charlie Wels Irish coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 26, 2005 
report card 

A 
quarterbacks: Quinn did everything his team needed Saturday, throwing for 327 yards and a touchdown, running for 29 yards and -most importantly 
-committing no turnovers. 

A 
running backs: Walker ran "patiently" but well. lie and Powers-Neal each scored a rushing touchdown, and 
Travis Thomas made an impressive cameo with 52 yards on seven carries. 
A-
receivers: Samardzija had a career day, highlighted by a deep fourth-quarter touchdown. Stovall was quiet, and 
McKnight did not play due to injury, but the receivers were efficient overall. 
A 
offensive line: Quinn was not sacked all day. The quarterback also had ample time to throw when he dropped back, 
and the run game dominated because the line opened and held large holes. 
8-
defensive line: When an opposing QB throws for more than 400 pass yards, 
it means the defensive line did not apply enough pressure. Abiamiri and Landri each had sacks 
linebackers: Hoyte made eight tackles A-(live solo), and the linebackers stifled the I Iuskies' running game to 41 rush yards. Mays forced a fumble. Pass coverage on defem;e overall was lackluster. 
C-
defensive backs: Wooden intercepted Stanback at the goal line and Ndukwe forced a fumble, but no player in the 
secondary save Ndukwe had anything 
close to a solid performance. 

C 
special teams: Samardzija's bad holds 
+could have proven costly. Zbikowski fumbled and recovered a punt return, 
and Anastasio blocked a punt. 

A-
coaching: Weis has coached Quinn and the offense into an efficient machine. The Irish had six penalties, and the pass 
defense must improve. But Notre Dame 
ultimately understood its t.a..'ik Saturday. 
3.30 
overall: The Irish did not play their best game but still manhandled the Huskies on the road. Weis has to figure a way to defend the deep ball before traveling to Purdue. 
addii1g up the numbers 
Washington's rush yardage total Saturday, the lowest for an Irish opponent since 
41 
Oregon State ran for 20 yards in 2004. 
6 
Touchdown receptions on the season for wide receiver Jeff Samardzija. He also has more catches 
(21) than he did in the entire 2004 season (17). 

Points Notre Dame has scored against Washington in the two teams' six all­
201
time meetings. 
68 Points Washington has scored against Notre Dame in the two teams' six all-time meetings. 
Wins Notre Dame has against Washington in the 
6 
two teams' six all-time meetings. 
6 
Amount of Notre Dame receivers who caught 
passes from quarterback Brady Quinn in his 327­yard, one-touchdown performance. 
Washington quarterback Isaiah Stanback's 
353 
yards passing against the Irish secondary. 
213 
Passing yards averaged by Brandon Kirsch, the quarterback of Notre Dame's next opponent, Purdue. 

Ronald Talley wasn't leaving the field until he found Tyrone Willingham. Joe Brockington walked off the fieid with his former position coach, Bob Simmons, now a tight ends 
and special teams coach for Washington. 
Captain Brandon 1-loyte told his former coach how much he respected him. 

Fellow captain Heather Brady Quinn Van Hoegarden was friendly with the man Sports Writer whose firing greatly upset him at the time. 
"Obviously, [I] had a couple words, talked with the coach," Quinn said. "I think anytime you spend a couple years with a coach like that, you're gonna have a few things to say." 
And it wasn't just Talley's pursuit of the former Irish coach or Brockington's walking off the field with his helmet still on talking to Simmons. It was everyone else ­Trevor Laws, Dan Stevenson, Corey Mays, Mark LeVoir, to name a few -who went up to their former coach. 
"It's the truth," 1-loyte said of his respect for Willingham. "I mean, how could you not?" 
The respect they paid after the game to their former coach was an indication of their opinions on Willingham as a person. 
"I expected that to happen, I expected them to at least say they knew me, so that's what hap­pened," Willingham said. 
But now it's over. 

The controversial J'iring that led to a public outcry can be put to bed. The much-hyped matchup between Notre Dame and Willingham, talked about since the day he was hired at Washington, is over. Notre Dame was the better team, and it came away with a win against a team that won one game last season. 
So now the Irish can focus on their problems on the J'ield, which number far more than the 36-17 final score indicates. 
No one knows this better than safety Tom Zbikowski, who said he went over to shake hands with those coaches who recruited him. 
"It feels good to get that win out of the way so now we're focused on football and only football," he said. "There's not going to be any of the outside stuff Saturday, a 69-yard bomb which was also the longest completion of quarterback Isaiah Stanback's career. At the end of the day, Stanback J'inished with 353 yards passing. 
And with the passing of this game, the focus shifts back to foot­ball. Back to Notre Dame's strug­gles to eover the deep ball. Back to Purdue, this week's opponent, which is eoming off a tough over­time loss to Minnesota. 
It's time to mov.e on. There are no more distraetions. No more talk of the "Ty Bowl." No more reasons to talk about the old coaching staff of Notre Dame. No reason to debate the firing of Willingham anymore. 
And Irish head coach Charlie 
Weis said he and 
Willingham talked 

before the game about 
that's going to how what he called a
"I think we were both
affect us." "circus" is going to 
But what will glad to get to kickoff end with kickoff. affect the Irish is and get it over with." "I think we were their pass both glad to get to defense, as shown kickoff and get it over
Charlie Weis 
by Willingham's with, because no mat­willingness to Irish coach ter how hard you try, 
throw the deep ball. He knew if the Huskies were going to win, they were going to do it at the expense of the Irish secondary. 
"We thought we would have a lot of success with our passing game, and there, for a stretch, we relied on it," Willingham said. 
Time and time again, Notre Dame got beat deep and Washington players hit career highs. Receiver Anthony Russo's 39-yard catch was the longest of his career. Wide receiver Marlon Wood has his first career reception you know what it's 
going to be about," 
Weis said. "I think 

that we got to share a little chuckle together beeause we were both thinking the same thing." 
And so now Weis gets to think about what he likes best -foot­ball. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Please contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd. edu 
Monday, September 26, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Samardzija thrives, plays some D 
By I lEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
One wonk af'tl~r catching a caroor-high six passos for IJ6 yards, widn roenivnr .lnfT Samardzija uppod thoso numbers ovnn morn, cat!:hing eight balls for 164 yards and one touchdown in Notre Damn's :~h-17 win over Washington. 
"It's not so much tho ofTnnsn," lw said. "''vn said this bnf'orn. It's just whnn any­limo you can play tho sport of' football and just. have confidoncn with tho guys that you'ro out on tho finld with." 
Samardzija's touchdown was his sixth this SIHtson aflnr coming into his junior ycHtr without. a touchdown rocoption. lie wasn't ovnn a starter at the beginning of' tlw ynar, listed bnhind seniors Hhnma McKnight and Maurir.o Stovall. But since McKnight was injured in thn Irish's 17-I 0 win at Mie:higan on Snpt. I I, Sarnardzija has stnppod into his starting roln and nxcnllnd. 
"Ito's boon tho bonnf'aetor or plays callnd whnro lw onds up lming the guy," Notre I>arno coach Charlin Wnis said. "Wn do not design plays that are going to ono guy spncifkally. Whon wn call a pass, it's tlw quarterback's job to get it to thn right guy. It's a combination of' progn~ssion and coverage, and he's hewn tho bnrwf'aclor. It's just that he's bonn it mom than oncn this year." 
Wnis nvnntually said tho junior's ath­lntidsrn also hnlps him to make plays such as his 52-yard rnc:nption in the third quartnr, tlw longest of' his caroor. 
"lin has vory good body control and lw has vnry good hands and lw's very dnpnndable," Wnis said. "!At tlwl begin­ning of' tho yoar. hn wasn't oven starting in our two rncoivor sols. I think he's st.Ppping up and making tho most of' his op portu n i tins." 
But on Saturday, Samardzija -also tlw holder on f'iold goals and nxtra points -had problems with two snaps dospitP his r.aroPr day at rneniver. Tho first was a 42-yard field goal attempt wil.h tlw gamP lind, 0-0, in tlw first quarlPr. Tlw sncond was in tho sm:ond quarlnr on an nxlra point. 
"One~ was a bad snap, thn other orw just got lwhind mo, but I should have got ahold of' it," he said. "It came down on my fingertips and just laid flat on me. I hustled a little too much; it was a 

P.A.T. I should have just took my limn and put it on the ground for D .. I. IFitzpatrickI." 
Samardzija also saw action at safety on Saturday for the first time in his career. lin played free safety in high school. registoring 40 tackles and throe interceptions as a senior. Samardzija eamn into the game with seven seconds to play in the first half' with Notre Damn up, 12-3. 
Washington had the ball on tho 50­yard linn and quarterback Isaiah Stanback lof'ted the ball to Craig Chambers in the end zone, but Samardzija batted it down in the corner of the nnd zone to end tho half. 
"It just seems kind of' obvious," the 6­f'oot-5 Samardzija said of' being put in that situation. "You know what they're gonna do. They'n1 gonna run a bunch of' guys down there and throw the ball up in the air, so why not put one of' your taller players back there?" 
On offense, where Samardzija has had the most success, he said the eonfldenen present is key to his success this ynar. 
"Maybn the offense is bringing that eonf1denee, maybe it's us guys, maybe it's the coaches," he said. "You can't really pinpoint whom it's coming from. But when you're out there playing with confidence and everyono's just kind of' feeding ofT each other, it's just great whether you're running the ball. throw­ing it or whatever." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
•

scoring SUllllllary 
1st 2nd 3nl 4th Total Notr·e Dame 3 9 7 17 36 
Washington 0 3 0 14 17 
First quarter 
Notrf1 Dame 3, Washington 0 
D.J. Fitzpatrick 25-yard field goal wilh 00:02 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 47 yards, 4:34 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 3, Washington :l 
Evan Knudson 27-yard field goal with 9:52 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 70 yards, 5:10 elapsed 
Notre Dame <J, Washington 3 Darius Walker 17-yard run with 4:47 remaining (kick failed) Drive: 10 plays, 80 yards, 5:05 elapsed 
Notre Dame 12, Washington 3 
Fitzpatrick 39-yard field goal wilh 1:01 remaining Drive: 9plays, 59 yards, 2:34 elapsed 
Thil·d quarter Notre Dame I <J, Washington 3 Rashon Powers-Neal 2yard run with 2:48 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 7plays, 68 yards, 2:35 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notm Dame 22, Washington 3 
Fitzpatrick 25-yard field goal with 10:46 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 58 yards, 5:04 elapsed 
Notre• Dame 2CJ, Washington 3 
Jeff Samardzija 52-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 8:48 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 3 plays, 60 yards, 1:22 elapsed 
Notre Dame 29, Washington I 0 
Mark Palaita 1-yard run with 6:01 remaining (Knudson kick) Drive: 10 plays, 77 yards, 2:47 elapsed 
Notre~ Dame 36, Washington I 0 
Travis Thomas 11-yard run with 3:26 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 5 plays, 44 yards, 2:35 elapsed 
Notre DamP 36, Washington I 7 
Craig Chambers 41-yard reception from Johnny DuRocher with 2:26 remaining (Knudson kick) Drive: 5plays, 70 yards, 1:00 elapsed 
statistics 

total yards 
Walker breaks Carter's rushing record 
runs outsido or ran a pitch Irish center Bob Morton Ndukwe has recovered aBy PAT LEONARD play to either side, a play was helped ofT the field in fumble in each of' the team's 
Sports Writer 
that bneamo one of' Weis' the third quarter Saturday first four games this season. favorites as the game went after a Hashon Powers-Neal On Saturday, he forced and 
On a routine 5-yard carry on. first-down rush went for no recovered a fumble from to the Washington IJ-yard "Wn wern running the gain. Morton appeared to Washington wide receiver line in Saturday's third stretch and the pitch all day, resist placing his left leg Craig Chambers to halt the return yards quarter. Irish running back and it didn't seem like they even touching the ground. Huskies game-opening scor­Darius Walker lwcame the stopped it too much," Notre Dame kicked a 25-ing drive. first Notre Dame player ever Walker said. "So if they were yard field goal to go up, 22-It was Ndukwe's fifth to rush for morn than I 00 going to keep allowing me to 3, but Morton did not return. career fumble reeovery. ya..rds in a season's first four gel outside and to be able to Backup center John time of possession games. cut back, we were just going Sullivan replaeed Morton on Playing debuts 
That mark breaks thn to keep running it until they the following series. Freshman Ray llerring record held by former Irish did something about it." "I just know at that point made his Notre Dame debut bar.k Phil Carter, who ran for Walker was caught from of the game, we were mak­when he lined up on special 100 yards in throe eonsecu­behind on several plays and ing sure that anyone who teams for the opening kick­tivn gamos to start the 1980 had a few negative gains due was getting injured wasn't ofT Saturday. season. to his desire to cut and going back," Weis said. .Junior Dwight Stephenson, ~ 
"It malty foels good to see dancn past defenders Morton's status is Jr., who lined up on the rushes-yards
that some of' the hard work instead of' blowing past unknown. defensive line in the fourth 47-233 22-41
•
comp-att-int

is paying oil'," Walker said of them. Weis saw advantages quarter, became the 19th 25-37-0 19-40-1 
punts-yards

breaking the record. and disadvantages to his McKnight sits out again player to make his debut in 1-33 3-112 
Walknr also moves into a running back's approach. Wide receiver Hhema the first four games of' the 2-0 fumbles-lost 2-2 three-way tin for third place "I thought he showed real­McKnight sat out his second season. 6-60 pnnalties-yards 3-25 in terms of' overall consecu­ly good patience," Weis said. consecutive game Saturday 31 first downs 20 tive games running for 100 "You'll see there's a lot of' after being listed day-to-day Captains yards. Lee Beeton ('93) owns time where he wasn't just throughout the practice Brady Quinn (offense), passing the Notre Dame record with turning the eorner, he was week. Brandon Boyte (defense) and 
Quinn 25-37-0 Stanback 17-34-1 
seven. Allen Pinckntt ('83) is letting the blocks get set up McKnight injured his knee .John Carlson (special teams) rushing
second with five, and first. on a reception from Brady were captains for the Irish Walker, Autry lhmson ('97) "I said to him today com­Quinn in thn first half' of' Saturday. Walker 21-128 Rankin 8-27 and Handy Kinder eaeh have ing ol'f', I said, 'You know, Notre Dame's 17-10 win at Thomas, T. 7-52 Stanback 7-8 four. you showed really good Michigan on Sept. 12. Coin toss 
receivingWashington allowed 233 patience. Now you ran about lie had a subsequent, Washington won the toss 

Samardzija 8-164 Chambers 5-127
yards on the ground as fast as me, but you unspecified procedure done and elected to receive. Notre 
Fasano 6-66 Shackelford 4-50
Saturday. Walker gained a showod rnally good on his knen and has not Dame defended the north 
Powers-Neal 4-28 Russo 3-61
earner-high 128 total yards patience."' played in a game since. end zone. 
tar.kling

and scored on a 17-yard 
Contact Pat Leonard at
touchdown run in the second Notes Ndukwe on a streak Wooden 9 Wallace 17 quarlor. lie often bounced Morton Injured In third Irish free safety Chinedum pleonard@nd.edu Hoyle 8 Lobendahn 13 



page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 26, 2005 

In a game hyped a.•:; the "Ty Bowl," Notre Dame disposed of Washington 
and defeated the program's former head coach in the process, 36-17, at Husky Stadium. Tyrone Willingham's Huskies emerged strong out of the gate, beginning the ga.me with an8-play, 82-yard drive. But Irish free safety Chinedum Ndukwe forced his fourth fumble in as many games on the Notre Dame 1-yard line, and the Huskies would not score a touch­down until the 6:01 mark of the fourth quarter. Irish players rushed to Willingham immediately after the game, shaking hands with him and giving hugs out of respect for their former coach. Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis had Notre Da.me well-prepared, though the Irish committed six penalties and the secondary showed severe signs of weakness, partic­ularly covering the deep pass. The Irish run defense was as good as it has been all season, holding the Huskies to 41 rushing ya.rds and containing Huskies quarterback Isaiah Stanback, a mobile runner. 



Brady Quinn directs the offense, top left. Travis Thomas rumbles downfield, top right. Rashon Powers-Neal leaps into the end zone for the score, middle. Tyrone Willingham and Charlie Weis shake hands postgame, bottom right. Tom Zbikowski (9) and Brandon Hoyte (39) pursue Washington quarterback Isaiah Stanback. 
THE 0HSERVER 
CENE
Monday, September 26, 2005 
page 13 
2005 Emmys signal return to classic styles 
Stars of'Desperate Housewives,' 'The O.C.' stand out on the red carpet 
By COURTNEY WILSON 
Sct•nt• Writer 
Simply said, the 2005 Fnuny Awards seem to have rovivnd old-world fashion, whid1 snemingly escaped roc<Hlt awards shows. This exeiling change of diree­tion might nasily hn attributnd to the reeent arousal of top-notch dnsigrwrs to up thn nlngance in their lat­nst runway eollnctions. The dose timing of New York City's fall Fashion Week cnrtainly must have influ­nncnd tlw ladios at thn top of our best-drnssPd list. 
Thn wonwn of Wistnria Lann. b<~st rneognized as thn always-stunning "Dnspnratn llousnwives" east, nxcnndnd all nxpnetations in pnrfnetly eoordinated 

Photo courtesy of www.eonline.com Nicolette Sheridan shows her softer side In a pale pink strapless dress and classic upswept hairstyle. 
jewel tone gowns. Ravishing redhead Marcia Cross knew exactly what color would work to bring out her glowing complexion. She looked spectacular in an emerald satin ·gown with intricate beading along the bodice, compliments of designer Elie Saab. 
Co-star Eva Longoria, leaving her Emmy Award nomination snub behind her, shined in a Roman­inspired bright coral dress, complete with a keyhole eutout and standout gold bracelets. The gown, designed by Ava Sanehez, was a definite knoekout. 
The always-enticing Nicollette Sheridan took a more modest route in a light pink-pearl strapless gown and a graeefully upswept ponytail to mateh. 
Although Felicity Huffman sparkled in a ruby-eol­ored Kevan Hall gown with slim cap sleeves, her best accnssory rnmained the winning smile she slipped on <~fter re<;niyin!f the Emmy for "Best Aetress in a Comedy Senes. 
If thnre was an award ror "Most. Cindnrella-Likn," however. the award would most surely go to the nnehanting Terri Hatcher. In a sapphire blue chilTon gown by J.Mendel. Hatcher dazzled rans with an ele­gantly flowing train and a erystal handed empire waist. all bnfitting or a princess. She eertainly wins for most attention-grabbing housnwirn and our over­all best dressed. 
Glamour girls of "The O.C." Haehnl Bilson and Miseha Barton were equally ehie in two delightfully charming numbers. Bilson was an absolute standout in a short, silver strapless dress. Hilson's best gal-pal and eo-star Barton kept it rresh with low-key makeup and a youthrul race. She walk0d the r0d earpet in a shimmery nude gown with eharming gold beading. 
Sandra Oh, star of "Grey's Anatomy," took a similar route in a light taupe tea dress that bubbled with flir­tation in only the most gracefully unassuming way. 
Jennifer Love Hewitt might take note or Oh's sue­cess for rH~xt time, as she floundered yet again in evoking the memory of her late fashion ieon Audrey Hepburn. Her sloppy beehive and dark eye makeup proved to be just too much for her frou-frou black Dolee and Cabana f'roek. 
Viewers should still refuse to give up hope in the power of a short black dress. though. Lovely lady Charlize Thnron restores our faith in an "ohh-la-la," vintage couture beaded flapper drnss with laeo trim­ming. Strutting the eirca 1920s look. we are remind­ed of just how elegant the look of a vintage Coco Chanel dress ean bP. 
Also bPwitching in black was "Lost" star Evangeline Lilly, who looked lovely in a Monique Lhullier ere­ation. With a 11oral beaded bustiPr and blaek tulle 

skirt to mateh, this up-and-coming actrnss gons straight to the eelnbrity "It" list. 
From bold colors and dassie blaek to stylish statn­ment jewelry and straplnss nl<~gancn, thnsn hot celebrity ladies wern bndecked in hnad-to-toe glam­our and left nothing to spare. 
Contact Courtney Wison at cwilson6@nd.edu 
Blues and Poetry Cafe a unique experience 
Event provides an artistic component to inauguration weekend 
By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Writer  personal works that dealt with love lost and gained, with family and with pain and sorrow.  voeabulary and vocalizations, Lightfoot portrayed Mayblean as a woman not unfamiliar with lost love.  llugh Page, the Oblates of Blues played terrific. traditional blues with a fun twist. Band members such as Larry  
A layer of smoke wafting through the  "He cm·dled in my hands," she said  "Knuekles" O'Sullivan and Niek "Driving  
It may seem like a simple bla<:k box  stage and seated audience allowed the  effectively about Mayblean's former  Whenl" Husso contributml to this nnw  
thnat.rn to tho naked eyo, but to any of  depth of feeling felt in the spoken word  love. Lightfoot's tale of Mayblean's lifo  and more loosened up atrrrosplwrn.  
tlw att<mdants of tlw Blues and Pontry  snlections to come through to the audi­ eonneetnd the audience with a nnw and  With the start of their first song, "I  
Cal'1\ Thursday night, tho Hegis Philbin  ence with strength and elarity. With  different part of the African-Ameriean  Ain't (;onna Mow My Yard ITill My Baby  
Studio theatrn was  transformod into a  each  reading,  silence  heritage.  Comes llomel," the band kicked into an  
darkened, stylish, soulful gatlwring  filled the Philbin theatre,  Ultimately, what made the  energetic performance with  an  infec­ 
plaen or poets and rrr usidans. Tlw small space, lit with deep blue  as the audience listened to the careful rhythms  "/Mablean/ was  poetry performances so attention-grabbing was the  tious mood and a daneeahln rhythm. The good feelings continued throughout  
and purpln lights and spott<ld with tall black tables, had the atmosphere of a drie 1:al'£\ or cofl'enhousn on any lamp-lit  and wording of the poets' works. Each poet gave his or  born with a joke in her tears."  stark and simple nature of the performances. A single voiee was the foeal point.  their time on stage, as Page's hannonica and .Johnson's soulful guitar 1111ed the air. Closing their set with a slow, smooth  
Chieago conwr. Tho pontie and musical performances, however, made the event  her own observations on the Afriean-Arneriean  Toni Assante Lightfoot  with little else to distraet the audience members but their  nr usieal tale of a man with change on his mind, the Oblates of Bltws played an  
orw or tlw most unique and nnjoyahle  experience in his or her  poet  eoff'ee mugs. This led to an  all-too-short selection of run,  mmno­ 
artistic  components  of'  Univorsity  work.  undisturbed connection with  rable blues music.  
Pr<~sidmrt  Fatlwr .John .Jenkins' inaugu­ Toni Assante Lightfoot,  eaeh poet and their work.  Tho Blues and Poetry Caf<1 was one of  
ration wooknnd.  in a poem describing the  Tho second componnnt of  several nv1mts running at the DeBartolo  
Mood is an important eomJHHwnt of  life of African-American stage per­ the Blues and Poetry Cafe was, logically,  Pllrforming Arts Cnntnr during thn  
any performance, and for thosn poets of  former Jackie Moms Mayblean, eharae­ the great bluns music. The featured per­ weekend of tlw inauguration. Despite  
tho <:avo Canmn pootry workshop, the  tnrizes her narrator as a witty and inde­ formance was that of Notre Dame's own  the myriad events, the Caf<l stood out as  
urulnrlying mood was one of joyful  pendent woman.  Oblates of Blues, who played two sets  a unique and fascinating slien of cul­ 
nxpmssion of nrnotion. Led by Professor  "I Mablean I was born with a joke in  over the eourse of the evening. Led by  ture.  
Cornnlius l~ady, coordinator of tho Cal'<~.  her tears," Lightfoot recited at the  founder Professor Max Johnson and fea­ 
the Cave CanPrn poets reeitnd and road  poem's opening.  Using expressive  turing Dean of First Year of Studies  Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu  

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 26, 2005 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Otto leads Belles to fifth place finish at MIAA Jan1boree 
Young Saint Mary's team shows promise; Calvin wins overall 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
It was a moral victory. 
The Belles finished in the middle of the pack in the nine­team MIAA Jamboree Friday, but showed potential and promise throughout ihe lineup, said Saint Mary's top runner, Sara Otto. 
The junior finished the five­kilometer course in Kalamazoo, Mich., in 20:07, just six seconds off her person­al record. The time placed her No. 24 overall in the field of 14 7 runners. 
Calvin's Camille Medema won the race for Calvin with a time of 18:43, 14 seconds ahead of second-place finisher Tieneke Vanlonkhuyzen of Kalamazoo. 
Senior Becky Feauto followed Otto across the finish line just five seconds later, at No. 25 overall, securing the combina­tion's third 1-2 team finish to start the year. 
Otto said the duo tries to run close together during their races and that it has helped them early this season. 
"We're definitely helping each other out when we're 
running together," Otto said. "It helps ... to have a teammate running next to you, pushing you." 
The Belles' top seven finish­ers -the runners whose places factor into the team scores -all completed the course within two minutes of Otto and Feauto. 
''I'm excited how the times stayed together like they did," Otto said. 
Freshman Kelly Biedron came in third for Saint Mary's with a time of 20:4 7, good for No. 35 in the race. 
Biedron's classmate Caitlin Stevenson crossed the finish line next for the Belles at 21:13, and fellow freshman 
Alicen Miller finished fifth for the team at 21:29. 
Freshman Grace Fey and junior Katie White rounded out the point-scorers for Saint Mary's. 
The amount of underclass­men in the top seven excited Otto. 
"We're looking really good because we have a young team," Otto said. "There's so much potential [on the team]." 
Saint Mary's head coach Jackie Bauters said the team was hoping to stay competitive with conference foe Albion before the meet. 
Led by Alyson Howe (No. 7 overall), Albion finished third, behind Calvin and Hope and in 
front of fourth-place Kalamazoo. 
Otto said Saint Mary's fifth­place finish was satisfactory because of how the Belles ran. 
"I felt like we were in a solid fifth, [but] I know we have a long way to go to get to the fourth place," she said. 
"You're ... working on pick­ing people up as you go and passing people as a team. That was more my concern-work­ing as team." 
The Belles' next meet is Saturday at the Sean Earl Lakefront Invitational at Loyola University in Chicago. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

SMC SoccER 
Belles winning streak ends in Grand Rapids 
Loss of midfielder Colleen Courtney to injury dooms Saint Mary's to 3-0 loss in tough conference contest at Calvin 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
After a spirited run to the top of the MIAA standings, the Belles soccer team dropped its first tough loss in more than two weeks to Calvin College 3­0 Saturday. 
Calvin spread the three goals evenly throughout the game and utilized swift attack­ers to give the Belles their first loss since an MIAA sea­son-opening letdown to Hope. The Belles were forced to reposition a majority of their fielders due to the absence of midfielder Colleen Courtney, which caused numerous prob­lems through­out the game. 
It did not take 
assist) fed the ball to Jill Capel (one goal, one assist), who proceeded to paste the far post in the eighth minute past overworked Belles' goalkeeper Laura Heline (11 saves). ly well, but we had a problem 
Freshman attacker Whitney finding the back of the net," Fron remained upbeat follow­Fron said. "We couldn't finish. ing the grueling defeat. The score really didn't show 
"It's never fun losing, so it our effort that well." was a tough The last loss," she said. Calvin tally "But it was a once again
"Even though we lost

well-played came from
the game, it doesn't 

game, and. Weesies, hopefully we mean anything., assisted by will get them Capel, who next time." brushed the
Whitney Fron

It was far side of the 
Belles forward 

Weesies' turn net in the to strike in the 82nd minute 30th minute on of regulation. a breakaway strike fed by fel­That was all the game wrote low attacker Karla on offense, securing the 3-0 VanBeveren. The goal put the Calvin lead. With the loss, the Belles down 2-0, but they Belles move to 3-2 in the 
refused to yield. MIAA conference and 4-4 
The Hinton sis­overall. 

The Belles will not take thisters, Ashley and
"It was a well­

long for the Lauren, pres­defeat and lay back on their aggressive played game and sured the Calvin heels. Calvin attack to hopefully we will get defense and got "We will have really good, puncture the off several well­intense practices," Fron said,
them next time. ,

tough Belles' placed shots, only as the Belles ready for defense. Sarah to be saved by Wednesday's home game Weesies (two Whitney Fron Calvin keeper against Adrian College. "We'll goals, one Belles forward Linda Heilman just mentally prepare our­

(three saves). But selves. Even though we lost Calvin was able the game, it doesn't mean any­to shut down the thing. It will be a totally new 
Saint Mary's attackers who team we play next time." 
had accumulated seven goals 
in the last three games. Contact Kyle Cassity at "I think that we played real-kcassily@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifietls every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES  WANTED  
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early  Local family needs part-time care- 
and Save Lowest Prices Hottest  giver for five-month-old boy. Flex  
Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE  weekday schedule available. Must  
TRIPS OR CASH FREE  love children & have experience  
MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest  caring for infants.  
Commission Best Travel Perks  References req.  
www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800­ 
426-7710  Transportation necessary.  
Call {574)271-0747.  
LOST AND FOUND  FoR SALE  
FOUND:  
1 bdrm condo near NO.  
Man s ND class ring at Castlepoint  
Apts. MSU weekend.  
All appliances.$69,000.  
Call Judy at 272-8110  
to identify & claim.  Call Kim Kollar 574-280-8160.  

Riverfront Condominiums in Niles. Spectacular St. Joe River views. Condo conversion with new kitchens,baths,sliders and decks. 
Only 20 minutes to Notre Dame. 
One bedroom units $99,900. Two bedroom unit $149,900. 
Call Michael Kuhn of Keller Williams 
Realty toll-free at 866-840-6511. 
FoR RENT 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­BORHOODS andersonNDrentals.com 
Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND game weekends. 7732182203 

Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  
(Jamison) coodo 11/21/05-05/06. Call Mary Anne Benedict 607-723­ 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$:  PERSONAL  
7363.  www. victorytickets.com  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER  BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT- not go it alone. If you or someone  
PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAIL­ BALL TIX.  you love needs confidential support  
ABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS  CHECK MY PRICES.  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
UP TO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO NO.  273-3911.  Gude, esc. at 1-7819.  
FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL  
KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS ­ BUY SELL OR TRADE ND FOOT- For more information, see our bi- 
OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315-5032.  BALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID.  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
Free room/board,male,chores/tasks  A.M.-232-2378  Spring Break 2006. Travel with  
aixcertified@ hotmail.com  P.M.-288-2726  STS, America s #1 Student Tour  
Operator to Jamaica, Cancun,  
TICKETS  Need 4 tix to any football game. Call Jack  Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for  
group discounts.  
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  '  57 4-67 4-6593.  Information/Reservations 1-800­ 
TOP$$ PAID.  
 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game.  
251-1570.  Call203-261-8717 Jim.  WE LOVE JACK!!!  


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, September 26, 2005 CoMPILED FROM Tt-u ()ssERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
Associated Press Top 25 
team record points 1 usc 3-0 1,619 2 Texas 3-0 1,560 3 Virginia Tech 4-0 1,448 4 LSU 1-0 1,424 5 Florida 4-0 1,367 6 Florida State 3-0 1,249 7 Georgia 4-0 1,242 8 Ohio State 3-1 1,200 9 Miami 2-1 1,028 10 Tennessee 1-1 995 11 Michigan State 4-0 905 12 California 4-0 892 13 NOTRE OAME 3-1 800 14 Arizona State 3-1 690 15 Alabama 4-0 608 16 Texas Tech 3-0 512 17 Wisconsin 4-0 493 18 Minnesota 4-0 439 19 Virginia 3-0 396 20 UCLA 3-0 331 21 Boston College 3-1 326 22 Purdue 2-1 322 23 Iowa State 3-0 297 24 Louisville 2-1 222 25 Georgia Tech 3-1 169 
ESPN/USA Today poll 
team record points 
1 usc 3-0 1,547 2 Texas 3-0 1,482 3 Virginia Tech 4-0 1,382 4 LSU 1-0 1,370 5 Florida 4-0 1,298 6 Georgia 4-0 1,239 7 Florida State 3-0 1,196 8 Ohio State 3-1 1,083 9 Tennessee 1-1 968 10 Miami 2-1 945 11 Calilornia 4-0 876 12 Michigan State 4-0 688 13 Texas Tech 3-0 683 14 NOTRE DAME 3-1 643 15 Arizona State 3-1 629 16 Alabama 4-0 609 17 Wisconsin 4-0 489 18 VIrginia 3-0 484 19 Minnesota 4-0 396 20 Purdue 2-1 360 20 UCLA 3-0 360 22 Louisville 2-1 308 23 Boston College 3-1 255 24 Auburn 3-1 133 25 Georgia Tech 3-1 133 
Division Ill Women's Golf 
MIAA Conference Standings 
tnarn  J1  J2  H  total  
Saint Mary's  332  346  348  1026  
Olivet  349  338  361  1048  
Hope  352  351  356  1059  
Albion  361  365  362  1088  
Alma  379  365  365  1109  
Tri-State  393  376  349  1118  
Kalamazoo  370  374  382  1126  
Calvin  397  404  416  1217  
Adrian  439  421  424  1284  

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Tennessee at LSU 6:30p.m., ESPN2 
NFL Kansas City at Denver 8 p.m., ABC 
MLB Chicago White Sox at Detroit 6 p.m., WCIU Washington at Florida 6:05p.m., MASN Kansas City at Minnesota 7:10p.m., RSTN 
PGA 

Associated Press, 
GAINESVILLE, Va. ­Chris DiMarco felt every bone in his body shaking as he stood over a 15-foot birdie putt late Sunday afternoon, captain Jack Nicklaus sitting with the American team beyond the hole and the Presidents Cup hanging in the bal­ance. 
Two people brought inspiration. 
An hour earlier, tho gigantic TV screen behind the 12th hole showed Fred Couples making a 20-foot birdie on the 18th hole l"or a stunning victory over Vijay Singh that essentially 
assured the Americans a tie. 
And there was Nicklaus. 
"That's what our whole goal was as a team this week, to win for him," DiMarco said. "We wanted this bad. We wanted this for Mr. Nicklaus. And it's nice to give him that." 
Arms raised, his face awash in sheer joy over the biggest putt of his life, DiMarco charged toward the cup and then into the arms of the captain as the Americans won the Presidents Cup, sending Nicklaus into retirement as a winner with an 18 1/2 ­15 1/2 victory. 
Only three matches 
reached the 18th hole Sunday -the dramatic birdie for Couples, a 4-foot birdie by Phil Mickelson to square his match with Angel Cabrera, and DiMarco's winning putt over Stuart Appleby, the biggest shot of a competi­tion loaded with spectacu­lar play. 
"He is some competitor," International captain Gary Player said of DiMarco, the American star at Hobert Trent Jones Golf Club by going 4-0-1 in his matches. 
Nicklaus already said farewell to the majors this year at an emotional British Open. lie doubts he'll be a Presidents Cup captain again, wanting someone else to get a chance, so this likely was his last time in the spot­light, and his last chance to get a victory in this event. 
"It feels a lot better to have a win, there's no question about that," said. 
Nicklaus, whose team had lost badly in Australia in 1998, and tied in South Africa two years ago. "As far as being something special, I may rwver cap­tain another tnam, I may never play anotlwr round of" golf, and if" I nnd my earner this way, it's a pretty good way to end it." 

IN BRIEF 
Warner out with groin
injury, unsure for next week 
SEATTLE -Arizona Cardinals quarterback Kurt Warner injured his right groin while scrambling during the sncond quarter against the Seattle Seahawks on Sunday and did not rnturn. 
Afterward. Warner was cautious about his status for next week's game against San Francisco in Mexico City. 
"At this point I don't really know. Obviously, things are worst in the lirst 24 hours." Warner said. "It's a little sore right now but hopefully it's not extremely serious." 
Warner's injury was the start of a bad day on the injury front for the winless Cardinals. 
Starting nose tackle Bussell Davis left in the third quarter with a biceps strain and reserve linebaeker Erie Johnson injured his left hamstring. Neither returned to the game. Arizona lost starting cornerbacks David Macklin and Antrel Holle. 
U-M out of Associated Press 
Top 25 after two losses 
The winningest team in the history of college football team is unranked for the first time in more than seven years. 
Michigan fell out of The Assodated Press Top 25 on Sunday, ending a streak of 114 straight weeks in the rankings, which was the longest in the nation. The last poll that didn't include the Wolverines was Oct. 18, 1998. 
Southern California extended its streak of No. 1 rankings to 23 in the latest media poll. Tho Trojans picked up two lirst place-votes aftm wiping out an early 13-point deficit and blowing out Oregon 45-13 on Saturday, a win that knoeked tlw Ducks out of the rankings. 
The Wolverines lost at Wisconsin 23-20 to fall to 2-2. Michigan's two wins came against Northern Illinois and Eastern Michigan of the Mid­Ameriean Conference. Michigan started the season ranked No. 4. 
Marlins' A.J. Burnett to u;o
free-agent after NL playoffs 
ATLANTA -Frustratnd by thn longest losing streak or his can~nr and Florida's near-elimination l"rom the NL playorr rac:e, A../. BurrwH indkated Sunday he will not rn-sign with the Marlins aftnr thn snason. 
''I've got one more start. horn, and that's all that. mattnrs," Burnntt. said of his apparnnt plans l"or f"rnn agency. 
Burrwtt complained about a lac:k or positive 1"(1inf"orc:nnwnt -snnmingly l"rom nuwag111" Jack McKnon and tlw Marlins' eoa<:hing starr. 
"It's depn~ssing ar,ound lwre," hn said. "Thorn's nothing positive around lwrn. Thern's nothing posi­tive on the stall" now. 
"You give up orw honw run, and it's a funeral ... A positivn pat on tlw baek is bnttnr than anything. haven'I. snen a pat on the baek since April." 
Asked who hn was targeting with his eritieism, Burnntt said, ''I'm not naming names." 
,----~ ~-----------­
! page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 26, 2005 
I ========================================================================================================== 
I 
I 
I SMC GoLF 
Belles sitting pretty atop MIAA conference 
Team claims first place finish in the last of three divisional tournaments 
By ANNA FRICANO Sporrs Writer 
With the fall schedule all but finished for the Saint Mary's golf team, it looks as though the program will be sitting comfortably atop the 2005 MIAA standings, a posi­tion the Belles have occupied for three consecutive years. 
Saturday marked the final of three conference jamborees that make up the bulk of the MIAA rankings, and the team gave a strong final perform­ance, squeezing out a first­place finish with runners-up Tri-State University only one stroke behind. 
Also a point of pride for the Belles on Saturday was senior Megan Mattia, who took home top individual honors for the day, finishing the 18-hole round with a score of 81. 
Saturday marked a few sur­prises for the MIAA and brought a little bit of excite­ment along with it. Olivet College, which has been chal­lenging the Belles for the top spot all season and is the only MIAA team to have beaten Saint Mary's this year, gave somewhat of a disappointing performance. 
Olivet finished in fourth place with a score of 361, 13 strokes behind the 348 that Saint Mary's hit to take home the medal. 
A strong performance by Tri-State was really the big surprise of the day, however. After having an incomplete roster all season due to injuries, Tri-State has been shooting mediocre scores all fall and remaining comfort­ably in the middle of the con­ference standings. Saturday marked the first time that the team was able to play full strength, with one of its strongest golfers returning for the first time after a neck injury that has kept her out all year. 

Shooting an impressive 349 on the day, the University was the only team to really give the Belles a run for their money. 
But it was Saint Mary's who claimed the top spot, and who is now sitting in perfect posi­tion for the MIAA Championships, which take place in two weeks. 
The Belles were happy to have the opportunity to pull away from Olivet a little bit, giving themselves some lee­way going into the last tour­nament. 
"[Beating Olivetl wasn't nec­essarily a relief ... but it was good because now we are that much farther ahead going into conference," senior co-captain Nicole Bellino said. "It gave us a pretty big push." 
The push was enough to put Saint Mary's a total of 22 strokes ahead of Olivet, enou h that, rovided no 
major disasters occur sures that have gone along between now and Oct. 8, the with attending the many Belles are pretty much guar­major competitions that they anteed their fourth confer­have played in all fall. ence championship in as The addition of extra tour­many years. naments to the regular fall 
To get themselves ready for conference schedule, against the two-day MIAA tourna­some major Division-! and II ment, the Belles will continue programs, has been taxing on to do what they have done all the golfers, and they are season, except with a tempo­ready to get back to the basics rary break from all the pres-and refine their skills. 
"All of us know that we can play better," Bellino said. "These next two weeks we'll have time to get some things going again. We'll have time to work and make little changes." 
Everyone on the Saint Mary's team is ready and excited to end the fall season with a victory. 
They will tee-off for the last two times at 1 p.m. on Oct. 7 and 9 a.m. on Oct. 8, when the official conference results will be decided. 
"I think we have a pretty good shot at winning [confer­ence]," Bellino said. "It'll be good ... to carry on the SMC tradition of winning it." 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO1@saintmarys.edu 

At Ernst &Young we know each employee is integral to the strength of the firm. 
Every individual matters. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we're offering an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. Look for us on campus if you'd like to connect, or visit us on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers. 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ 
.TO WORK FOR~ 


Monday, September 26, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NO WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Irish dominate, sweep visiting Seton Hall, 3-0 
Tarutis paces offense, posts .319 hitting percentage in big victory 



... we have. GE's LEXAN SLX body panels infuse plastic with pigment. reducing volatile organic compound emissions normally associated with conventional automotive paint. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to hatch your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance, manufacturing, sales 
\ \

and marketing, human resources, or information technology. 


ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com 
a'l equa! opp o·tu'lity employer 


imagination at work 
The Irish swept the Pirates in
By TOM DORWART 

what was a dinie of an oiTen­
Sports Writer 
sive performance. 

Notre Dame jumped out to an 
After a one-week layoff, the early lead and never looked Irish (8-1, 1-0 Big East) showed baek, winning the l"irst game, no signs of rustiness in their ;{0-12. 
Big East opener against Seton Hall Sunday afternoon which they won rather quickly. 
"We played a great , first game, coach Debbie Brown said. "We played very aggressively. It was a good effort all around. 

"Our hitting percentage was above .300, and overall, we [played with] great intensity." 
our 1 eas 

A diversified technology. financial services. media company. 

During the next two games, the Irish mwrgy
"We played a great 
level might have first game. We played dropped a little, but their level of
very aggressively. 
play hardly fell.
It was a good e.ffort 
They won 30-23, all around." 30-2(>. "We came out really strong,"
Debbie Brown 
senior Laurnn 
Irish coach 
Br·nwstnr said. 
"Evnryone got to play; everyone got in at least one game." 
Brown was pleased to get everyone some playing lime in the same match -for the lirsl time this season. 
"All 13 on our roster played," she said. 
Some of the seldom-used players who saw aetion includ­ed freshmen Justine Strcmick -who had two quick bloeks when she entered the first game -and fellow freshman Annie Mokris. 
Sophomore setter Ashley Tarutis got the offense rolling. She led the Irish to a .319 match hitting percentage and their 11th consncutive Big East opener victory . 
In addition to the solid hitting pereentage, Tarutis had 40 set assists and 10 digs for her 19th career double-double and sev­enth in the first nine matches. 
Notre Dame linishnd with an astounding 48 kills. Brewster bolstered that category with 
14. She also hit for a match­high .448 percentage. 
Often overshadowed by her All-American teammate, senior Lauren Kelbley -a pre-season All-Big East pick -once again played like a top player in a major conference. She pound­ed 13 kills. 
Sophomore Adrianna Stasiuk and freshman Mallorie Croal both hit for .417 hitting per­centages. 
While the offense steam­rolled, the defense overpow­ered. 
In total, the Irish defense had f>5 digs. Senior Meg Ilenican led the Irish with 17 digs, and Stasiuk notched live blocks and 13 digs. 
A respectable crowd of 1 ,411 watched the Irish dominate. "It was good-sized," Brewster said. "We really appreeiate it." 
Fans are starting to pick up on the Irish and their winning ways. 
After one of the best nine­rnateh starts in school-history. Notre Dame is gaining fans, recognition and depth. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

Please recycle The Observer 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 26, 2005 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles struggle as three-match vvinning streak is snapped 
Team falls to Calvin 
and Alma, losing both 
matches 3 games to 0 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's faced some 
growing pains Saturday at 
the Saint Mary's triangular. 
The Belles dropped match­es to Calvin and Alma, both in three straight games. 
The losses ended a three­match winning streak and left the Belles (7-9, 1-4) in eighth place in the MIAA. , 
The Belles were looking to assert themselves among the MIAA elite after last year's 
•"-six-win cam­paign. 


KATE FENLON/The Observer Belles Kristen Playko, left, Shelly Bender, middle, and Amanda David prepare to block in their 3-2 victory over Kalamazoo College Sept. 20. Saint Mary's lost twice this weekend. 
< 

''I'm excited by our
Despite the well and losses, coach play, though. played very Julie Schroeder­well."
We have nothing to 
Biek was After letting
shy away from with
encouraged by the Scots her team's play. the way we played break away in 
"We just didn't today.,, the first game, have the right the Belles mentality to beat improved their 
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
those teams passing and today," she said. Belles coach communication 
''I'm excited by our play, though. We have nothing to shy away from with the way we played today." 
The Belles lost to Calvin in the morning by a 30-16, 30­28, 30-23 score. 
The Knights dictated play early, using a strong attack game to win nine of the match's first 13 points. 
Saint Mary's fought back to cut the lead to 18-14, but a 10-1 Calvin run put the game out of reach. 
Calvin continually set up easy kills, as the Knights had a 35-percent hitting percent­age over the course of the match. 
Schroeder-Biek thought this stat reflected some subpar blocking by the Belles. 
"I thought the timing on our blocks was off," she said. "We couldn't get an effective block set up." 
The Belles played a strong second game against Calvin, 
using tough defense to slow the Knight attack. 
After falling behind 13-7, the Belles pieced together a 7-0 run behind Kristen Playko, who had a team-high 13 kills in the match. 
The Belles relinquished the lead with the score 17-16, but fought back to go in front 27-26. 
Saint Mary's could not hold off a determined Calvin squad, who won four of the final five points to take the game. 
Schroeder-Biek was pleased with the effort in the second game, but emphasized the need to finish each game. 
"We drove in the second game," she said. "We played well in spurts, but we need to play a more complete game from point one to thirty." 
Saint Mary's looked poised to force a fourth game with the score tied at 21 in the third, but five quick Knight points sealed the Belles' fate. 
The Belles looked to rebound in the afternoon match against Alma. 
The Scots, fresh off a win against Calvin, made it a per­fect 2-0 day by defeating the Belles, 30-21, 30-28, 31-29. 
Saint Mary's competed well against the taller Alma team, which used its height advan­tage to record 70 kills to the Belles' 44. 
Erin Fralick led Alma with 19 kills, hitting 68-percent in the match. 
Schroeder-Biek was pleased with her team's drive in the afternoon match. 
"We wanted to win that match," she said. 
"We had some lopsided 
matchups, but 
we adjusted 
to keep Alma 

close in games two and three. 
Playko, Shelly Bender and Michelle Turley all had more than 10 kills to lead the Belles attack. 
Anne Cusack had a match­high 25 digs to anchor the Saint Mary's defense. 
The Belles will look to start a new winning streak and climb up the MlAA standings when they face Tri-State University Tuesday. 
Despite the two losses, Schroeder-Biek feels her team can compete with the top teams in the MIAA. 
"We are a good team, and we have to prove that by beating other good teams," she said. 
"We can perform at their level. I'm excited for the challenge those teams pres­ent." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
VVednesday,Sept. 28,2005 5:00PM 
202 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre­Professional Students; pre-medical internships available Engineering courses available in Monterrey 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 
Nov. 15, 2005 for Fall '06, Sp'06 and AY 2006-2007 additional deadline: May 1, 2006 for Spring 2007 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/"-'intlstud/ 
Africa Faith and Justice Network: Michael Poffenberger. Augustinian Volunteers: Mary Maryanne McElwee; Anne McGrath; Jane Mitsch; Maria Smith. PLACE Corps: Kathryn Ronan. Augustinian Volunteer Program -Chicago: Michael McCusker. Amate House: Kinnier; Katie Laskasky; Rita Morgan; Amy Peckins; Stephanie Vieron. Puerto Rico Stephanie Garza; Melinda Meckley; Kathleen Kilcline; Jake Weiler. AmeriCorps: Amelia Center for Social Concerns: Megan Buller; Patricia Guzman; Christina Velasquez. Rostro Hoffmann; Andrew Hoyt; Leslie Humboldt; Alison Jones. Amigos de Jesus: Maureen de Cristo: Jacqueline Heap. St. Joseph's Prep School Alumni Service Corps: Benjamin Wolfe-Bertling. Andre House: Maria Candelaria. Campus Ministry Internship: Haney. Summerbridge Pittsburgh: Greg Laski. Teach for America: Mary Boland; Emily Christina Bax; Lauren Prieto; Brian Vassel. Casa de Esperanza: Diane Heilmann. Camisasca; Megan Casserlie; Kathleen Chenoweth; Elizabeth Donnelly; Teresa Fralish; Catholic Relief Services: Teresa Hansen. . .---------------------------., Justin Halls; Katie Hench; Melissa Hentges; Chapin Street Clinic: Chris Schuster. Christ Geoffrey Johnston; Julie LaBelle; Gavin Lamb; House: Mark Ellestad. Christian Appalachian Jenna Linder; Patrick Magee; Mary Mcinerney; 
Project: Amblyn Allen; James Finnegan III. Cassandra Meyer; Katie Poholek; Colin Pogge;
Think 0 u ts ide The B0 X Christian Brothers Lay Program: Colleen Marco Sandusky; Rebecca Walter; Daphne Marie Case. ECHO Faith Formation Zeringue. University of Fondwa: Brian McElroy. Leadership Program: Stacy Arbogast; David VIDES West USA: Eric Wooldridge. Vincentian 
Consider joining these graduates who have committed 
Ballinryn; Rose Beauclair; Kyle Bertoli; Kenna Service Corps: Katherine Osterholz. Brewer; Christina Dehan; Beth Franzosa; to a year or two with post graduate service programs. WorldTeach: Elizabeth Galezio; Cara Spicer; William Spencer McSorley; Amanda Murillo; Jeremy Staley. Alliance for Catholic Education: 
Alexa Puscas; Danielle Reyes; Paul Sifuentes; . Kathryn Aiello; Thomas Anthony; Anna Arias; Rachel Wack. Fellowship of Christian Athletes: Post-Graduate Service Fair Richard Austin III; Sarah Bates; Sarah Nicole Rapagnani. Farm of the Child: D. Cancellare; Nicholas Dailey; Lynne DeFilippo; Michael Adams; Claire Hoipkemier. Good d d Kati Duffey; Lauren Flynn; April Michelle Shepherd Volunteers: Megan Davisson. Holy We nes ay, September Garcia; Jonathan Gargano; Nicholas Green; 
Cross Associates: Kate Duman; Petula 5 _8 p.m. @ Stepan Center Emily Gorman; Katie Hesmond; Joseph Hettler; Fernandes; Holly Gilbertson; Carrie Lerr; Matthew Houlihan; Courtney Jianas; Elizabeth Matthew Kuczora; Meredith Mechenbier; Ketterhagen; James Kilroy; Kathryn Kinner; 
Shanrha Ready; Michelle Rogers; Andrea Jocelyn Landgraf; Darren Luft; Joseph Lucero; 
r•• Wysocki; Caitlin Early (Chile); Ryan Greenberg < ' • r ' • ' o • Marianne Magjuka; Jacqueline McAdams; (Chile). Holy Cross Overseas Lay Missionary ~~N~~:N~ Lindsay MacRandall; Eric Morin; Kate Nienaber; Program: Jessica Brock; Michael Clements. Eric Nitz; Maya Noronha; Patrick O'Keefe; Interfaith Action/Student Farmworker Jacqueline Pimentel-Gannon; Sarah Popek; Alliance: Melody Gonzalez. Jesuit Volunteer Corps: Ellen Kennedy. Koinonia University Walter Pruchnik; Derek Ray; Adarely Trejo; Anthony Van Gessel; Charleen Vinalon; John Outreach: Hannah Clare Gornik. LANCE: Erin Marx. Lutheran Volunteer Corps: Waldron; Ann Walorski; Dominic Yonto. Programs to be determined: Stephanie Aberger; Abigail Braun; Sang Yup Lee. Mentoring Academic Gifts in Service: Kendra Simpson. Justin Alanis; Katherine Bobo; Katy Crone; Erin Cumberworth; Erin Dwyer; Lee Gertler; Mercy Home for Boys and Girls: Megan McCormick; Catherine Susanne Schmidt. Karie Grimes; Elizabeth Kilcline; Lisa Kolar; Nick Kolman-Mandie; Nicholas Lescanic; Julia Mercy Volunteer Corps: Dana Stovall. Mount Carmel High School: Jeremy Truelove. Longoria; Tiffanne Mahomes; Maria Monroe; Katie Mulcahy; Dan Parziale; Katrina Picon; Nativity Prep Academy: Jessica White. PACE: Erika Bramley. Passionist Volunteers Grise! Ruiz; Emily Rumora; Dan Schnorr; DeMark Schulze; Linda Skalski; Rashelle International: Terri Baxter. Peace Corps: Meryl Guyer; Patricia Kim; Zhu Jun Liong; Simpson; Lindsay Till; Allison Vater; Danielle Wrighr. (As of May 2005) 

Monday, September 26, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Buehrle, Sox take care 
Study.in CHINA 
Information Sessions for 
BE!] IN~ 
and 
~HAN~HAI 
5PM Tuesday, September 20  117 Hayes-Healy  
or  
5PM Monday, September 26  129 Hayes-Healy  


of Tvvins; extend lead 
Associated Press reduend their magie number to 
five -thanks to their victory 
CHICAGO -Standing on the and the Hoyals' ninth-inning win field, Mark Buehrle and Paul over seeond-plaen Cleveland. Konerko heard the crowd roar In tho top of the third, as the and immediately knew they got Hoyals' 5-4 vietory over tho help in a game far away. Indians was postnd on the scorn­
After learning that Kansas board, tho crowd broke into a City had rallied to beat loud ovation. · Cleveland, Buehrle and Konerko "When they started chnnring I took care of their own work kind of knew what it was for," Sunday. · Buel11·le said. 
Buehrle pitched a four-hitter Bunhrln got his own elwers and Konerko homered as the when he retirnd Matthew Chicago White Sox defeated the LeCroy in the ninth for the linal Minnesota Twins 4-1 to push out. I lis performance followed their AL Central lead back to 2 three strong starting efforts by 1/2 games with a week left. Brandon McCarthy (a no-deci­
"There are good vibes right sion in a loss). Jose Contreras now. We've kind of turned it and Freddy Garcia as the Whitn around a little bit." Konerko Sox ran thnir winning stmak to said. "We know it's in the dri­three games. ver's seat and it's there for the "When you are in second taking as long as we just do our place, it's a dill'erent way. When job. We don't have to really look you are in llrst, you can take at the scoreboard, but it's care of yourself before some­always nice if you get some body else does it," Chieago man­help. But we know we can do it ager Ozzie Guillen. "Once the on our own, as well." reaction went down, you saw 
Ahead in the AL Central by 15 the three runs come up right games on Aug. 1, the White Sox away. It was a great feeling." 
Get 0 utdoo1"5 ... M~I<e ~ DifFerence 
Come to one of the following lnfo Sessions to find out more about our Expense-Paid Internships 
LaFortune Student Center-Dooley Room 
Momlay, September 26'11 -3:30-4:()() PM Tuesday, September 211'-11:30-12:00 PM 
Center for Social Concerns-Coffee House 
Monday, September 26'"-5:00-5:30PM 
Student 

Conserv~tion
~ 
SCP\ 

Associ~tion www.theSCA.ot-9 
I 

Live alittle.. on Mondays! 
~flta~ita_ 
~ -! 
EnJoy adouble order of chlckett, steak or co111bo fajttas (et10ugh for 1Wo1 for just tll!* 

• •i 
~liS. 

MISHAWAKA 4110 trape Rd. •m..tsfO 
*OkwlWWV,...Ua.ailtkA 

r­
1 
I 
page 20 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 26, 2005 
l• Michael Suchanick: \ Multi-Linguist Kung Fu Artist* 
I 
I 
I 
I ­
I 
Karaoke King Is Welcome Here 

Your life. You can bring it with you. Learn more about Michael and tell us more about you 

I
; 
; 

l l 
/. 


I
l ~­
1 
I I I 
I f i 
I 
I 
I 

*connectedthinking 


Monday, September 26, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Nakazaki 
continued from page 24 
first plaen with a tmun seorn of Xll7. Big Ton powers Miehigan and Northwestern finished sixth and snventh, respnetivnly. 
"Wn'rn vnry satisfied lwith this pnrf'ormanee1." King said. "It's a big dnal liH· us to beat Michigan and Northwestern. We're a Central Hngion toam, and so arn thny, so wn should meet thnm again." 
Nakazaki explodml out of' tho gate in tho first round Saturday, shooting a two-under-par 70. She cooled ofT slightly in tho socond round latnr that day, carding a two-ovnr-par 74. She finished up with a 71 despite the rain Sunday to nnd up under par and with a nnw Notro Damn rneord. 
"She's really becoming a star," King said of Nakazaki. "She works rnally hard. Plus, she's developed patience, and her con­lidenee level has finally caught up to her talent." 
The wr~ather Sunday was bru­tal, with heavy rain and driving winds. Still, scores stayed rela­tively low, with Nakazaki and f'ourth-plaee finisher Myrte Eikenaar of' Purdue both shooting undnr par. 
The Irish sent seven golfers to the tournament, of' whom six competed in tho team tourna­ment. Staey Brown played as an individual, carding a 237 {80-77­80), good enough for 51st place. 
Tho top-four scorers !'or each team counted toward the team scorn. The Irish, who shot a 903 {303-296-304), were led by Nakazaki, Lauren Gebauer, who shot a personal best 222 {75-73­74) and finished eleventh, Katie Brophy, who shot a 231 (78-75­
78) and finished 31st, and Jane Lee, who shot a 237 (81-74-82). 
Hounding out the field for the Irish wem lisa Maunu, who shot a 240 {80-77-80), and Suzie llayes, who shot a 245 (83-80­82). 
Miehigan State shot an 887 to take second to Purdue, followed by Penn State and the Irish. Indiana finished fifth.lllinois, Illinois State, Iowa, Wiseonsin and Minnesota rounded out the twelve-team field. 
"Penn State was a real sur­prise," King said. "They were pre­season ranked 100th in the coun­try lby golfstat.eom]. They must have gotten some real good fresh­men." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy Sports Information Irish junior Noriko Nakazki lines up a putt Saturday during the Lady Northern Invitational. Notre Dame finished fourth. 
NFL 
Last second kick gives Pats victory 
43-yard field goal lifts New England over Steelers, 23-20 
Associated Press 
All this seemed to be too 
mueh. even !'or a New 
England Patriots team that 
always wins big games. The 
injuries. A soeond-half defieit. 
A Pittsburgh Steelers team 
detnrmined to show it is now 
tho AFC's best team. 
Not yet, they're not -not al'tnr giving Tom Brady and Adam Vinatieri a chance to bmtt them in the fourth quar­tnr. 
The Patriots, badly depleted by injuries, withstood the longest seoring pass play against them in 15 years and two turnovers inside the Pittsburgh 10 to rally in the fourth quarter behind Brady, beating the Steelers 23-20 Sunday on Vinatieri's 43-yard field goal with one seeond remaining. 
"They showed us today why they're the ehamps," Steelers linebacker Larry Foote said. 
It's also why the Patriots have won three of the last four Super Bowls. 
New England, trailing for most of the game, led 20-13 late in the fourth quarter when a pass interference call on Chad Scott on a fourth­and-11 play set up Ben Hoethlisbrlrger's second scor­ing pass to Hines Ward, a 4­yarder that tied it with 1:21 remaining. 
But that was too mueh time for Brady, the NFL's best late­in-the-game quarterback, and Vinatinri, its best dutch kick­er. 
"Our coaches always get us in situations where we can makn plays," said David Givnns, who made nine catch­es for 130 yards. "There always snems to be time for us to come baek." 
Brady, shouldering most of the offnnse, completed his last 12 passes and went 31-of-41 for 372 yards and Corey Dillon. all but absent the week bllforn in a 27-17 loss at Carolina, scored twice on short runs to help end Pittsburgh's 16-game winning streak. Dillon's 7-yard run early ~n the fourth made it 17­13-New England's first lead since 7-0 on Dillon's 4-yard run on its first possession. 
The Patriots won in the same stadium where their own record 18-game regular season streak ended last sea­son with a 34-20 loss on Oct. 
31. They came back 2 1/2 months later and manhandled the Steelers 41-27 in the AFC championship game, the sec­ond time in four seasons their road to a Super Bowl title ran through Heinz Field. 
Just as in that game, the Patriots (2-1) all but took away Pittsburgh's running game -Willie Parker, coming off consecutive 100-yard games, was held to 55 yards -and forced Roethlisberger to try and beat them. 
The Steelers also didn't help themselves when, early in the second, Antwaan Randle El tried pitching the ball to Hines Ward as he was about to be tackled on a 49-yard gain to the New England 11. Randle El's errant toss was recovered by the Patriots. 
"It was a bonehead play," Handle El said. "The team rule is, if you're going to try that play, you'd better make it." 
Roethlisberger, who hasn't lost to any other team in 18 NFL starts, counting the post­season, wasn't much better than he was in that AFC title game loss, when he threw three interceptions. 
Under a heavy rush, he went 12-of-28 for 216 yards in his first loss in 16 regular­season starts, despite going against a badly depleted Patriots defense. 
Already without three injured cornerbacks, inelud­ing starter Tyrone Poole, the Patriots lost backup corner­back Duane Starks on the Steelers' first play from scrim­mage, though he returned later. Then, after allowing an 85-yard Ilines Ward TO reception, safety Hodney !Iarrison and left tackle Matt Light went down with leg injuries. 
Harrison was driven to the team bus on a cart, and Light was seen with a east on his right leg. 
Softball 
continued from page 24 

Irish and gave up no runs in four innings. She was relieved in the fifth inning by Kenya Fuemmeler, who allowed only one run on a hard hit to left field. 
The second game of the day remained quiet until the bottom of the third inning, when once again the Irish got the momen­tum going with their bats. 
Stephanie Brown hit a two­run homerun over the center­field fence to again take an early lead against opponent Detroit Mercy. 
Brown stressed the impor­tance of getting the offense going early for the team. 
"Whatever hit lwill) get us going in a game is what we need," Brown said. "If we con­nect the hits, then we'll get the offense going." 
The team used the early 
momentum to their advantage, continuing to earn runs one at a time and to play solid defense, again making no errors and holding Detroit to just one run for the game. 
Pitcher Heather Booth threw an outstanding game !'or Notre Dame, almost throwing a no­hitter until a Detroit player bunted on in the top of the sev­enth inning and was soon knocked in to give Detroit its only run of the game. 
Saturday's results _show that Notre Dame just out-hit, out­ran and out-played its oppo­nents, but them team credits a lot of its skill to work that it has done in the off-season. 
The team has been working to improve their offense so far this year. 
"Our coaches have done a really good job of breaking down things, just breaking down our swing," Brown said. 
And whatever they have been doing seems to be working, because the Irish went very few innings without getting hits on 
Saturday. 

And did the excitement of' the 
first game of tho soason giv1~ thn 
Irish the momentum they need­
ed'? 

"A lot of it was exeitmnent," 
Brown said. "We came in ready 
to play. We're really looking for­
ward to our season." 

The team knows that when it 
comes time for the regular sea­
son, they will have to work a lit­
tle harder to compete with 
some of the more dif'licult teams 
in the Big East. 

But Saturday was a good 
starting point for a team with seven freshmen, many of whom -were able to gnt their first col­lege-level playing time during 
the two games. 

The Irish will be able to test 
their skills again this coming 
weekend when they host two 
more schools in the last of their 
fall exhibition appearances. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO1@saintmarys.edu 

LIVE AND STUDY 

ROME INFORMATION SESSIONS 
5 PM MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 OR 
5 PM TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 
131 DEBARTOLO 131 DEBARTOLO 

1:2 Th, Oburo" ~ ~POR~S Monday, Sepromb" 26, 2005 
=================================================================================================== 
Five minutes later, Hanks scored didn't play well," Waldrum said. "I ing pace, scoring one and assisting Hanks, who was unable to capital­her second, and Notre Dame's don't know if four or five years on another in the 3-0-victory. ize on a goal of her own.
Shutouts 
continued from page 24 
trying to limit Notre Dame's scor­ing chances while creating very few chances of their own. 
It is this strategy that Irish coach Randy Waldnnn feels many teams use against the Irish, trying to keep the score close in order to take advantage of a potential mis­take later to score. 
It was not until Brittany Bock took a Kerri Hanks free kick and headed it into the goal for her fourth goal pf the season at 39:03 that the Irish were able to slowly start pulling away from Oncinnati. 
At 69:36, Candace Chapman nailed a cross to Kerri Hanks, who was able to beat the defense for her 14th goal of the season. 
Weekend 
continued from page 24 
Big East) and were ranked No. 18 in the most recent polls, which were released before this week­end. Oncinnati and Lousiville are two new additions to the modified Big East schedule. 
"Neither of the games were going to be easy games," Clark said. "I think we knew that from start to finish." 
Notre Dame 2, Louisville 1 
The Irish came back from a 1-0 deficit by scoring two goals in less than 15 minutes. After a scoreless first half, Louisville's David Guzman outplayed Irish goalkeep­er Chris Cahill to find the back of the net with less than 30 minutes final, goal of the game. Katie Thorlakson sent a pass downfield to Cinalli, who quickly passed the ball to Hanks, who was able to score from close at 75:51. 
Waldrum was disappointed by his team's effort Friday night, insisting that the Irish were slow and missed several early scoring chances in the first half. 
"I thought we were sluggish, and I could sense it in the warm up," Waldnnn said. "I thought the game could have been three or four nothing in the first half." 
He also credited the strength of his team, suggesting there are not many teams in the country that could be upset by a 4-0 in-confer­ence win. 
"It's interesting to get a 4-0 win and to walk away [feeling that we] 
to play. 

The game was far from over, however, as Tony Megna found Joe Lapira to tie the game in the 75th minute of play. Megna's night wasn't over, as he also set up mid­fielder Ian Etherington's put-away at the 81 :00 mark. 
"I thought Tony Megna had a very good weekend overall," Clark said. "I thought Tony was one of possibly our most consisteiJ.t play­ers in both games." 
The second half clearly belonged to the Irish, despite the goal they gave up, as they outshot Louisville 12-2. 
"There was a similarity between both of the games in as much we gave both teams a start, dug a little bit of a hole for our­selves," Clark said. "We had to come back and get ourselves into a game. We didn't dig as big a ago we would have been saying those things." 
Despite the fact that the Irish were unable to capitalize on a few early chances, the defense did not allow a real Bearcats scoring chance all night. Cincinnati was credited with three shots on goal to Notre Dame's 27. 
"That's again part of the game that's really coming around for us," Waldnnn said. "I thought we did a really good job on the defen­sive end.~' 
Sunday's game had all the mak­ings of a sloppy one -as the rain that fell in Louisville made for tough conditions -but the Irish were able to fight through it and earn their second win of the week­end. 
Hanks continued her rapid scor­
hole on Friday night as we did [Sunday], so we were able to get back and get something out of the game." 
· The Irish were coming off of a weekend road trip that saw them go 1-1 against Big East foes St. John's and Syracuse, which ended in a loss and a win, respectively. 
Cincinnati 2, Notre Dame 1 

On Sunday, the Irish found themselves on the wrong side of a 2-1 decision as Cinncinati was able to pull together after another scoreless first half and build a two-goal margin that would prove insurmountable. 
"I thought Cincinnati, they opened [strongly]," Clark said. "We took a little while to get going in the second half and we don't normally. We normally come out very strongly in the second half 
like Friday, the Irish got off to a slow start, failing to score their first goal for the first 43 minutes. 
At 43:33, Thorlakson sent a cor­ner kick to Bock, who deflected the ball off a Louisville player into the net. 
Forty-four seconds later, the Irish scored their second goal, and what looked like a potential score­less first half suddenly saw Notre Dame with a two-goal lead. 
Hanks scored on a free kick when she sent the ball over the Louisville wall into the left side of the net past goalkeeper Deana Waintraub. 
The final score came at the beginning of the second half when Thorlakson scored her ninth goal of the season at 49:45. 
Thorlakson sent a pass to 
but somehow we didn't do that today." 
Conditions were sloppy for the Irish and the Bearcats, as drizzle in the first half turned to a steady rain with slight wind in the sec­ond. After outshooting the Irish 7­3 in the first half, the Bearcats were the first to break the score­less tie in the 49th minute. Cincinnati's Kenny Anaba was unassisted against Cahill to take the lead. The Bearcats never looked back as Amir Ikner shot what would prove to be the win­ning goal at 63:09. 
"They've got very fast for­wards," Clark said. After building a lead, "they can sit back, let us force the game, they always look menacing." 
The win was never out of reach for the Irish, who cut the deficit to one goal on Etherington's shot, Thorlakson collected the loose ball and fired a shot inside of the lower near post for the goal. 
Notre Dame was without goal­keeper Erika Bohn again this weekend due to injury, and Lauren Karas filled in, making seven saves against Louisville. 
This weekend, Notre Dame will begin a series of four consecutive· road games, heading to Marquette on Friday and then flying to South Florida for Sunday's game. 
The following weekend, the Irish will head to New Jersey to play Rutgers and Seton Hall. 
Notre Dame will not return home until an Oct. 14 game against Connecticut. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at 
rgriffi3@nd.edu 

assisted by defender Ryan Miller. 
"Ian Etherington with two goals in each game -he did well, that was positive," Clark said. 
In the final minutes, the Irish squandered several good scoring opportunities, inducing several corners and free kicks. 
This is the third Irish loss -out of three -decided by a one-goal margin. 
Seven of Notre Dame's eight contests have been decided by one goal. 
"I was really proud of the effort from all members of the team in both games, getting back into both games," Clark said. 
The Irish return to the turf of Alumni Field on Wednesday for a 7 p.m. contest against Bradley. 
Contact Kate Gales at 
kgales@nd.edu 



~~~~~---~-----------~~-----~~~~ 
Monday, September 26, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD
ERIK POWERS & ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR JUMBLE 
Most students were snubbed by Father· Jenkins's VIP after-par·ty at Corby Hall But luckily. Jockular's cameras wer·e thcr·e. 
CROISSANTWORLD 
'tE..FOR~ f'Au-. 
Bf<.,.E..!'\::. , \ / lL 
DP-•NK .so M'\'-H 
h.L E~D UP IN 
...,-1-\E \-\O"::>f'ITAI-1 
IF '(0~ Sf:'.E ne 
DOWNSTAIRS Wnl-4 
..,. H E:-?CL\ <..E: I 
WAVE.~ 

MIKE ARGIRION 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 39 "Wow!" 1 Kuwaiti ruler 40 Diva's solo 
5 Computer/ 41 Best time to act phone line link 
46 Deli loaves 10 The late Peter 
47 AdministeredJennings's 

network 48 ltsy-bitsy 
13 Tightwad 49 Landmark near the pyramids of 
15 Atop Giza16 Likewise 52 Excited, with17 Not laughing or "up"crying 54 Gets rid of19 Cut (off) 
weeds 20 A-rated 
55 Sigma's follower 21 River's curve 
57 Cherished 

22 Labyrinth 61 Letters before 
23 Cancun cash 
an alias 25 Van Gogh 
62 2003 animated subjects 

film ... with a 21 Volcanic coating hint to 17-, 32­
30 Curtain holder and 41-Across 
31 Affirm 64 Sunset hue 
32 "Every good 65 Singer at 
boy does fine" Diana's funeral 
and others 
66 1978 jazz 38 Doll's cry musical 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
•-:-:t*~•""!!"'t-:::bt-:-1 

-:-+.:+:-:.r.=+::c+.:+7+:':-it-:-l 34 Voting "nay" -:+.;:+:::-r:;;:+.-:.r,;+.::-Bt-:-1 35 Pilot and flight attendants 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
67 Snoop 68 Ehrich_, Houdini's real name 69 Makes a doily 
DOWN 1 Outback birds 2 Item on a hotel 
pillow 3 "Aha" 

4 Chart anew 
5 _ tai (drink) 
6 Slender woodwinds 
7 Mafia chiefs 8 Shifty 9 Brooks of "The 
Producers" 10 Oversized reference book 11 Rotgut, e.g. 
12 Makes do 14 Cesar_, classic player of 
the Joker 
18 Boxer Mike 
22 Singer Makeba 
24 Loathsome 26 M.L.K. Jr., for one 27 Buckshot and such 
33 Native New Zealanders 
WILLSHORTZ 

36" kleine 45 Jittery 56 Voting "nay" Nachtmusik" 
49 Opposite of 58 Country crooner 37 Fill to capacity mild, in cheeses McEntire 42 Rembrandt van 
50 Texas Hold'em, 59 Give off e.g. 
60 John and Jane, 43 Fabric 
51 Intoxicating in case titles 44 Like some 
52 "Great job!" 62 Handful
Central American 53 Krispy Kreme 63 Those with pyramids product clout 
For answers, call 1·900··5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Stacy Keibler. Natalie Maines. Ralph Lauren, Sir Cliff Richard 
Happy Birthday: Uncertainties may cloud your year. Motivate yourself to act on your impulses. Don't let anyone hold you back or talk you out of doing what you know you must do. Take the initiative if you want to gain ground. Your numbers are 4, 18, 21, 24, 33, 35 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't take no for an answer. You can be on top if you are aggressive in a complimentary and persuasive way. Don't back down or give in. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will have what it takes to get things done. so focus on doing the best job possible and you are likely to advance. Don't be afraid to be a little different. *** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Social events and getting involved in challenging hobbies or activities will be beneficial. You can make new connections that can lead to either a personal or professional partnership. 
***** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't count on anything or anyone and you won't be let down. You will probably feel used, but keep in mind that it takes two to tango and you probably should share the blame. ** LEO (July 23-Au~:. 22): Communication will be the key to popularity. Your ideas will be well received and you can be in the spotlight if you take charge and make arrangements for yourself as well as for others. **** VIRG'O (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You should be feeling the urge to step into a better position. If you haven't followed your professional goals, this is a good time to reevaluate and take action. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be in control and ready to take action. Poise yourself and prepare to take your friends and associates by storm. Present and promote your talents. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): There will be plenty of action behind the scenes. Observe what everyone else is doing so that you are able to surpass even your toughest competition. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Help is on its way. The more you allow yourself to let others pitch in and offer favors, the sooner you will get everything back on track. A partnership is looking quite lucrative. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may end up in a difficult situation if you have promised too much to too many. If you leave yourself vulnerable to helping outsiders, you will pay the price. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 111): Do something nice for you. Book yourself for a massage or something that will lift your spirits and make you feel good about the way you look. Love and romance are in the picture. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Unusual circumstances may surround financial or legal matters. Keep an open mind. Time spent making changes to your residence will be comforting. *** 
Birthday Baby: No one will deny you anything. You have an appeal that is unmistakably irresistible. You are a leader right from day one. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
\1\J HA\ A r...E.. 'fOU. 
_.,.-e'!\..LINu ME -n·\IS f'Ot:_) 

J]~®lliiE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
Saturday'  Jumbles:  FLUID  LEAFY  ALIGHT  STYLUS  
s  Answer:  What the bowling dispute turned into- 
AN "ALLEY" FIGHT  

~~~~~?li~~ 

(Answers tomorrow) 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, September 26, 2005 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Conference dominance 
Irish shut out Cincinnati and Louisville; still yet to allow a Big East opponent to score 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN A"ocitate Sports Editor 
By shutting out inferior oppo­nents this weekend, the Irish con­tinued to do what they have been doing all season -further the claim that they are legitimate con­tenders to repeat as national champions. 
Playing two new Big East con­ference members, Cincinnati and Louisville, the Irish (9-1-0, 3-0-0) easily won 4-0 and 3-0, respec­tively. 
Notre Dame has now shut out its previous four opponents by a combined score of 16-0 dating back to a Sept. 16 win against DePaul. 
Friday night, the Irish started off slow, letting the Bearcats hang around longer than they should have. Notre Dame missed a few early scoring chances that allowed the game to be scoreless until the 16th minute. 
At 15:49, Carrie Dew finally got the Irish on the board when Annie Schefter sent a pass towards Amanda Cinalli in front of the goal. Cinalli· tapped it to Dew, who put it in the back right section of the net. 
For the next 20-plus minutes, the Irish kept pressure on the Bearcats, as Cincinnati sat back 
see SHUTOUTS/page 22 


ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Nakazaki sets record lovv score 
Junior shoots 215 as Irish take fourth at Lady Northern Invite 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 

As the rain poured and the wind blew during the third round at the Indiana University Championship Golf Course in Bloomington, Ind., Noriko Nakazaki broke a school record. 
The junior shot a one-under 215, the lowest three-round score in school history, over three rounds to place third and lead the Irish to a fourth place finish at the Lady Northern Invitational. 
"There were times when the rain was going sideways today," Irish coach Debby King said of the inclement conditions. "I don't think I've ever been more proud of my team. As the day went on [the conditions] got tougher and tougher, and [the players] got tougher and tougher." 
Attended by mostly Big Ten schools, the tournament featured stiff competition. Purdue took 
see NAKAZAKI/ page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 
ND splits weekend games 
Irish beat Louisville, fall to Cincinnati 
in Big East contests 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
This weekend· was more of the same for the Irish, who again finished 1-1 in Big East games. 
After a thrilling come-from­behind victory over Louisville on Friday, Sunday brought steady rain and a heartbreak­ing 2-1 loss to Cincinnati that doused the spirits of the Irish fans. 
"The character is great," coach Bobby Clark said of his team. "In both games it was exactly the same, they showed a lot of fight, determination." 
The Irish are now 5-3 (2-2 
see WEEKEND/page 22 
ND SOFTBALL 

Strong exhibition vvins excite Irish for season 
Notre Dame defeats Wayne State 5-1 and Detroit Mercy 4-1 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Wrirer 

Spring just cannot come quickly enough. At least for the Notre Dame softball team. 
In their first of two exhibition tournaments of the fall season, the Irish captured two decisive victories over opponents Wayne State University and Detroit Mercy by scores of 5-1 and 4-1, respectively. 
The Irish took the lead early in the first game of the day against Wayne State. In the bot­tom of the second inning, junior Gessice Hufnagle drove in a run to put the first points on the board for Notre Dame. The game remained close, with Wayne State even tying it up in the top of the fifth with a long hit to left field, but Notre Dame made up for that and then some in its next at-bat. 
The Irish bats exploded in the bottom of the fifth inning with six hits, plating four of the five Irish runs in the game. Katie Laing and Sara Schoonaert each earned an RBI in the inning, and Meagan Huthrauff picked up a pair of RBI when she drove the ball into center field with runners on second and third. 
The Notre Dame defense gave a strong performance in the game, holding Wayne State to just five hits and committing no errors. Freshman Brittney Bargar started the game for the 
see SOFTBALL/page 21 

ment. 
c::a:: page 17 
page 18 

en 
~ 
ND VOI.lEYBlU 
Entire Irish roster gets playing time as Notre Dame sweeps Seton Hall. 
page 17 

SMC X~COUNfRY 
Sara Otto leads the way as Belles finish fifth in MIAA Jamboree. 
page 14 


, 
Monday, Seprember 26, 2005 The Observer+ IN FOCUS page 3 
University officials evaluate Jenkins' plans 
oflidal at the University, behind mer student of Jenkins. he emphasized in many ways ... dnarly got the vision, lw wanl-; to
New president sets 
Jonkins and Provost Thomas "One of the things that was that we need to spend time think about Notrn Damn's place in goals for his tenure Burish. "I thought it gave us great imprnssnd me most was the scri­reflecting ethical implications of tlw world's stagn can be. I thought direction for the future. lie has ousiwss and earnestness with our work, and bring the traditions tlw addrnss ... wa.-; one that wouldduring inauguration very dear in his goals for what he which it was delivernd," and wisdom of the Church into nspeeially appeal to faeulty and wanted Notrn Dame to bn -to be Weithrnan said. "I was impressed greater conversation with the that's a good thing," Weithman 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
similar to other universities in with just how thoughtful it was advances in knowledge and said. "I think nvnrybody W<L<; gmt­some way, hut also be distinctly and just how big he's drnamt lor understanding," said vice presi­uinely happy about, fonls good
In !'oms Wrirer dilli1rent, distinctly Catholic." Notrn I >amc." dent and associate provost Dnnnis about tlw futum in light of what. In his first of'lidal add ross as Jenkins addrnssnd a crowded Alllnck-Gravns said Jnnkins has Jacobs. "I Ie was saying that Notm thoy thought and I think that's a Uniwrsity Prnsidnnt, Fatlwr .John .Joyce Cnntnr, which inducted hun­proved himself to be a strong Dame has a vnry distinct role and very good way for John to bq.,rin." .Jnnkins laid out his plans for drnds of professors from both loader, "much stronger than most iL-; voice nnnds to bo hoard." Jenkins, who assumnd tho roln Notn• I>anw to bn bot.h a competi­Notrn Damn and around the coun­pnopln think." Much of the community of Univnrsity prnsidnnt .July 1, hm; tive arademic UniVI'rsity and a try. "lie's very ambitious for the expressed excitement over already assemblnd a tPam of moral compass in the world -a "Sitting up them on the stage, I University," Alllnck-Graves said. "I Jenkins' enthusiasm about bring­administrators, induding Burish, point Univnrsity scholars praised. had goosebumps at times," think the thing that exdtns all of ing the University into conversa­to hnlp him work toward his goals. "I think wn, of all tlw universi­Alllnek-Grav1Js said. us the most is the sense that he tion with the global community. "I think he's assemblml a ~rrnat tins in the country. havn thn J.,rrnat .Jenkins' speech was oloquent has this great pride in what we "lie wanL-; Notrn Dame to be at tnarn that is nagnr now to get on privilngn of rwvnr rnally having and appnalod to the value of are. We should proclaim that the table in conversations of world with moving thn Univnrslty alwad. changt•d our fundamnntal mission lnarning for its own sake, said pride." significance, global signilkance," I think we'll sne an ... nra of lwntusn INotre Damn founder! Mark Hoehn, dean of the College In correlation with Jenkins' Jambs said. "Certainly we find it !,'Teater engagmnnnt with institu­l;at.lwr ll·:dward I Sorin was so ArL-; and Lnttnrs. inauguration, an academic convo­in today's socio-political spnetrum tions of highnr ndueation around rlnar," said l~xneutive Vice "I liknd the prominent and cation was hold Thursday dis­that more and morn n~ligious tlw 1:ountry," said vice prnsid1~nt President .John Arllnck-Gravns. nuance rhntorie on Catholic identi­cussing the book "When Faiths motivations and directions are and assodatn provost Christirw "lie wantnd us to hn a J.,rrnat uni­ty, including the ideas that reason Collide." Smaller academic convo­guiding the actions of countries. Maziar. "I think w11'1l snn a pnriod versity, a grnat Catholic univnrsity. can challnnge a falsn and eompla­cations were also held in dormito­lie wants us to have a convnrsa­in which Notre Damn has a I think nvnry prnsident holds that l:nnt notion of faith and that if we ries with faculty moderators. The tion on this campus on how faith greatnr eonlidnnen in hnr idnntity up." hired only Catholic we'd be less issue or welcoming many faiths, ellecl-; the way pluralistic sodnties and in what she h<L<; to oflbr." Jnnkins dnliverml his inaugural Catholic," Hoche said. not just Catholicism, was a central rolate to one anothnr." Jenkins, though lw acknowl­addrnss, which was fillml with Whil11 .Jenkins' address laid theme of Jenkins' address, Jenkins' commitment to faith at edgod University Presidents humor, pnrsonal stories and down his vision in broad strokP.s, Afllnck-Graves said. Notre Dame is an important one, Emoritus Fatlwr Thnodore 1111thusiasm for his nnw position, many are excited to see his plans ''l-Ie's committed to making Jaeobs said. llesburgh and Fatlwr Edward at Friday's Academic Convocation, play out in coming years. Notre Dame a place where ques­"We are the only faith-based "Monk" Malloy, has his own plans wlwn~ lw WIL" limnally installnd a-; "One will look fi>rward to ways tions of the 21st century can be institution ranked in the top 20 in fill' the University. Univ1~rsity President by Board of in whieh some of these ideals will addn1ssed," Woithman said. "This the country, at least by the U.S. "I think Monk wa.-; a lnadnr who Trustnns chairman Patrick translat11 into concrete initiatives is a natural place for us to do News and World Heport list," gave pnopln a lot of frendom. lin McCartan. and strategies to support essen­those things and a place we can Jacobs said. "That is signilkant. trustnd pnopln that hn appointnd .Jnnkins usnd his addwss to givo tially our triadic identity -learn­do those in a way no body else There are cnrtain r11sponsibilities to positions and hn gavn thnrn a lot faculty, studnnl-;, trustnns and tho ing, r11search and our Catholic can." that we bear." of frnndom to do what they want­gn~atnr Notrn Damn mmmunity a identity," Hoehe said. Jenkins' presidency will likely Many top administrators are ed," Aflleck-Gravns said. "I think bnttor id1m of his plans for the .Jenkins' excitnment about tak­lbcus on the role Notre Dame can optimistic about Jenkins' future as Father .John's style will be a little University. ing the helm as University presi­have among institutions or higher University Prnsident and said that more hands-on." "I thought !Fr. Jenkins' inaugu­dent shonn through in his speech, education and on the global com­he has made a distinct effort to get ral addrnssl was fabulous," said said Paul Weithman, chair of the munity. to know the faculty. Contact Kate Antonacci at 1\fllnrk-(;ravns, tho third-ranking philosophy department and a for-"I think one of the themes that 'Tie's young, he's energetic, he's kantonac@nd.edu 
Students choose between events, time off from class 
room" -what he called the 
By KATIE PERRY 
Joyce Center -for hours. 
In Focus Wri wr 
Farmer said he didn't think it 
was important that he be there 
Whiln thousands of students for the ofl'icial inauguration paeknd tho J.oycn Cnnter and cnromony. otlwr campus vnnues for "I know wn havn a new presi­Thursday and Friday's inaugu­dnnt," he said. "I don't have to ral nvonts, thousands morn soo him at thn inauguration." mado otlwr usn of thnir time Naylor agreed that the convo­and optod to s1~ize tho rarn cation was not signil'icant four-day wnnknnd. onough for him to attend. 
At 4::{0 p.m. Friday-while "I don't see what's going to Fathnr .John be so earthshak­.lonkins and ing Iabout much of the "/ didn't have a Jenkins' inaugural Notrn l>anw l:om­sponchl," hn said.
choice in who's 

munity was amid Freshman
president and I

tlw inaugural Jamns Dubray ronvorat.ion -don't think it mado a point to juniors (;rog a.fj'ects me much as attond Thursday's Naylor, l!i(~O academic forum.
a student."

J."arnwr and .John "I thought tho (;rogan Wl'rP on forum was good," tho lawn outside James Dubray he said. "Some St. l·:dward's Hall freshman speaknrs were throwing hnan hotter than others, bags. though. I think tho 
Tlw four studonts worn obvi­eomments [Honduran ously not at tlw convocation. Archbishop Father Oscar lnstoad, tlwy worn in tho midst Cardinal Hodriguezl made Courtnoy Havon said. "I think it Adjemian -treated the inau­mn than thn inauguration of a thrilling ganw of rorn holo about homosexuals were com­was important to be tltero as a guration as a four-day week­nvents." -a lll'an hag toss gamo thoy plntnly ridiculous, though." studnnt." end. Alfonso said hnr absnn1:1~ d1~srrihod as a uniqu1• form of Dubray said tho forum was Ilavnn said while she hersolf "!The inauguration) just was­from tho nvonts was "not a big "malo bonding." tlw only inaugural event he thought the event warranted n't important enough to doal at all," but did say shP 
Wlwn askPd why tlwy el10s1~ attnnded. her attondance, sho could also attend," Adjemian said. "It was probably would havn attnndnd not t.o attPnd tl11• convocation, "I wasn't intnrnsted in the identify with other students just nico to have two days ofT had slw not had so much tlwy SIH'mod puzzlnd. I1: on vocation at the Joyc n who chose not to go to tho con­[from elasses.l It was nieo to homnwork. 
Naylor said lw didn't go to Cnnt.nrl so I didn't go," he said. vocation or other inaugural have that vacation time." "I rngrnt not going to tho aca­any of tlw inaugural ovonts "I didn't have any ehoice in 1wents. But not attending inaugural demic forum," slw said. "but I horausn it wasn't mandatory who's prnsidnnt and I don't "I think it's undorstandabl11 events wasn't all fun and just had too much work." for studnnt.s to attnnd. think it aiTncts me much as a [that students chose not to gamos for othor students. Grogan indieatnd his priori­
"If I wont I'd probably n~gwt student." attend inaugural ovonts) Freshman Paula Alfonso said tins wnrn nlsl~wlwrn. it," lw said. ''I'd think, Man I Studonts who did attend because I almost didn't go shn didn't go to any 1~vo nts "Wn'n~ mtwh mon~ intnrnst<'d wish I was at my dorm just Friday's convocation said they mysell'." sho said. "I think it Thursday or Friday solnly duo in !Irish tiglrl nnd I .John hanging out." folt it was bncause t.he found it was a good time to rest." to academie reasons. Carlson than .John .knkins," lw 
Farn11•r Pl"hoPd this apathy to be a poignant evont for With tho caneollation of "I havn a big papnr dun said. and said what mattors most. at nwmbnrs of tlw University. af'tnrnoon classP.s on both Monday so I was doing homo­l"oiiPgo is timn spont with "I just think it was hist;lrical­Thursday and Friday; many work during that limo," slrn Contact Katie Perry at frinnds. nol sitting in a "hot ly signil'ieant," frnshman studnnts -likn junior Aaron said. "It was morn important to kperryS@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Monday, September 26, 2005 

Photos by FRANCESCA SETA and CLAIRE KELLEYfrhe Observer 
Band members perform at University President Father John Jenkins' invocation ceremony, top left. Jenkins smiles during his inaugural address, top right. Jenkins is congratulated by Board of Trustees chairman Patrick McCartan, middle right. Tom Brokaw moderates the Notre Dame Forum, bottom right, and University Presidents Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh and Father Edward Malloy bestow blessings on Jenkins after his inaugural address. 






