

New diversity awareness resolution called 'vague' 
By KATIE PERRY Assistant News Editor 
A proposal to establish a committee to evaluate and implement cultural compe­tency at Notre Dame was hotly debated at Tuesday's Faculty Senate meeting, where members said the plan was too "vague" and last-minute for them to make an immediate decision. 
Members of the Student Affairs com­mittee, one of the four subcommittees of Faculty Senate, cited the resolution's inability to presfmt a clnar-cut definition of the term "cultural competency" -and 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 67 WEDNESDAY. DECEMBER 7, 2005 
FACULTY SENATE 
Cultural competency discussed 
-as well as a lack of time to think over the issue as reasons for postponing action until their next meeting on Feb. 1. 
Hhea Boyd, chair of Student Senate's Minority Affairs committee, said the res­olution speaks to Notrn Dame's "biggest initiative"-the question of how to incorporate diversity into campus life. Boyd said the issue is best resolved by making exposure a direct part of the col­lege eurrieulum. 
"The biggest thing is the definition of cultural competency," Boyd said. "As defined by the American Heritage Dictionary, 'competence' is a specific range of skill, knowledge and ability. When we precede that with 'eultural,' we hope Notre Dame students will have a knowledge or ability to successfully navi­
how such a practice would bn integrated see CULTURE/page 6 
Students use 11 printers installed in dortns 
Student Senate works to monitor program a11d evaluate pilot run 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
N<·w, Wril<'l 
Tlw tnst run of' tlw printPr pro­gram -which brought printers to l'ivn dorms last spring to dntor­rninn their feasibility and nnenssi­ty in dormitories-was enough to l'onvinn• Carroll sophonwre Josh KPmpf that lw no longer nond(1(1 his own JlPrsonal printl~r in his dorm room. 
"They told us llwy would have it up and running this y1~ar. so I did­n't PVPn bring it bad," Kempf' said. 
Thanks to thP sueepss of tho pilot program. organized by tho student senate last March. tho UnivPrsity lwgan thi• printnr pro­gram in II dorms on campus ­Carroll. Dillon, Farlny, Lewis, Lyqns, O'Nnill, Pangborn, Pasqunrilla Wt~st. Welsh Family. and thn lobby connecting Kennan and Stanford. l·:ach of these dorms received one printer at the begin­ning of the school year. 
Mark Seiler. chair of tlw Student Senatn's rnsidence life committee, and snnator Bnn Gunty worked with (~onion Wishon, assistant vien pn~sident of' the Ol'l'iee of Information Teehnologins, to get printers installnd in tho dorms. 
"Thn lirst ynar for the pilot pro­gram was last academic year, and the program wont well." Seiler said. "The program indieatcd that tlw printers in thn dorms were getting amplo usage. This aca­dPmie year a few more printnrs wnre added to dorms. As far as I know. tlw program continues to go woll." 
see PRINTING/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Storin to leave position 
Former Boston Globe editor will continue to teach at University 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writer 
After serving as assoeiato vice president of' news and information tlw past three and a half' ynars -making him Notre Dame's mouth­piece during a rare presi­dential tran­sition and a controver­sial l'ootball coaching change University spokesman 

Storln

Matt Storin will stnp down at tlw PrHI of' this calendar yoar. 
Storin. a I 9(14 Notre llanw graduate who was tlw editor of' the Boston Glolw f'or c~ight ynars bdore c~oming bark to work at the University, said he decided last FPbruary that this would lw h is Ias t semester in the post. 
"I lovn being at Notre Danw. and I've~ nnjoyed tlw job," Storin said Tuesday. "I'm very l'ond of lllniv«~rsity Pr e s i d e n t I Fa tlw r I.I o h n I Jenkins, so [stepping downl is really based on personal considerations." 
Sinen many of his friends and family livn on tlw Past 
see STORIN/page H 

Professor consults for 'The Da Vinci Code' 
By KATE ANTONACCI A.~so(iarc New~ Ediwr 
Tlwology professor Father Bic~hard McBrinn is helping "crack thn code" -as pro­motional ads f'or "Tho l>a Vinci Codn" 
~ 

movie Hay 
tt~

as a :.;J
consultant ,...,.f'or tlw S o n y 
Lj

I' i e t u r I' s l'ilrn basnd McBrien on the widcdy popular and c~ontro­vnrsial novel by Dan Brown. 
"Aeconling to the terms of 
my eontract. I'm not at liber­ty to discuss my role as a consultant to 'The Da Vinci Code' f'ilm. othnr than to confirm that I am, in faet, a consultant and that I have been in touch with [din~ctorl Hon Howard and .others involved in the production of the l'ilm," McBrien said Tuesday.• 
"The Da Vinci Codn" book, rflieasnd in April 2003, im mod iatoly became the subject of much conversa­tion and l'urious religious debato for its claim that Jesus may have been mar­ried tci Mary Magdalene, a f'igure often depicted in art 
see DA VINCI/page 4 


College changes start date 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Writer 
An unusually long winter break will give students a four-week escape from the rigors of college work, but the return to campus may prove extra challfmging for Saint Mary's studonl<>. 
The College's semester classes typically began on a Tuesday, but this year students will lind thflm­selves in the elassroorn on Monday, Jan. 16. 
"I think that starting dasses on Monday instead or Tuesday next semester will be a diJTicult adjust­ment," junior Leda DePalma said. "Having that Monday oil' makes the transition between the long Christmas break and settling back into the routine of elasses much easier." 
The decision to begin dasses on Monday instead of' Tuesday was made at the April 1 H meeting of the academic aflhirs eoundl. The council passed a resolution that stated dasses would begin on the first Monday of the spring 2006 semester, and every semester thereafter. This change was imple­mented to narrow the time imbal­ance that previously existed between dasses that eonvnnnd on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and those that met on Tuesday and Thursday, the eouncil said. 

"[The resolution! really makes sense," communications studios professor Andrcm Hogers said. "II' I had one Monday, Wednesday, Friday class and one Tuesday, Thursday elass that were identi­cal, it would be diflkult to balanee the work Load and remain fair to the student<>." 
College registrar Lorraine Kitehner said the implnmentation of a study day prior to linals wenk, whieh rnsultnd in thn cancellation of a Friday dass, W<L'> part of tlw rn<L<>oning behind the resolution. 
"Faculty A<>snmhly sent tho rnr­ommendation to start classes on Monday to tlw Academic~ Afl'airs Council in an attempt to balancn tho overall Monday, Wednnsday, Friday nwoting times with Tuesday, Thursday mnnting times -espndally in t.he spring snmes­
. tnrs," shn said. "This chango will not make the mneting times equal, but it will bring lwlp dosn tlw gap." 
Although studcmts will start dass a day narlinr, tlwy still will not bn pt~rmitb~d to return to thnir rnsidcmee halls until Sunday, Jan. 15, residence halls dirc~etor Michelin Hussell said. 
Hussell said she fenls studnnts 
sec CHANGE/page 6 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Arizona dreaming 
·No matter how many papers I have (o wr~te, no mattl~r how many !inals I haV£~ to study for. tlwrc's just <ino thing I can't stop 'tllinkiiH~ about: th!\' f<iesta. 'Bc)wl. But it's for a difl'eront reason · 
tlian one might ., · think. Despite Tim kaiser 'being ilie overzQalous foot-, · · · 
1.' 1

h~ll fit'riatJG thp.,t'fi.l. ~ Spof:ts'Writer. · 
am. it's no'1'1hbglllflll>l · · :-" drditm matcH'd{l'' · -~.'· ·. ·! between the Irish and tho Buckeyes that I'm salivating over, nor is it the delicious tortilla chips th~t will most certainly be advertised during the event. The reason I'll be certain to pick up' a lottery number today is pecause t~e game wil,l be P.layed in toasty warm Tempe. Ariz. · 
This is my first Midw()stern winter, and Wliil\ll thought I would be pre­pa~ed for it., it has still come as a shock to me. What surprised me most was how quickly it came. It wa~ comfort­
. able und mild throughout October, and · · · I figured all that I'd heard ab6ut how 
'cold.and depressing South Bend was must.have_)Jeen an exaggeration, but sure enough. after wakin!cup at 7:57 
'a.m. for an 8 a.m. test 6ri.e'nwrl1ing jn' 'mid-November, I reali~ed,:while sprint­ing <l.Cross south quad in aT-shirt, that everything was covered iii snow. Now, 
•just'fi year ago, that aQ}ourit pf snow-' 
'Tall would have equated to a day off from school for me, bui, alas, Notre. Dame is not really a comml!ter cam­pus. So I plodded slowly back to the dorm to get ready for my first class, thinking that I'd never get to experi­ence the pure elation of a snow day again. Sure enough, I was fortunate to 
. check my e-mail before heading out again and found tha~ my first class had been cancelled because my professor's wife had gone into labor that morning, which after a quick congratulatory reply, I was free to relax and enjoy the morning's winter scenery. 
But I have found that this round of snow, accompanied by blistering cold and gale-force winds, isn't so quaint and enjoyable as the first time. 
No other time have I been so thank­ful for my dorm's close proximity to 
• 
South Dining Hall, and the occasional 

• 
excursions to North I took this fall have ~ been ruled out. Many trips to the ;, library have been forsaken. And don't , expect me to call you back: I don't get ~ cell phone service in my dorm room 

• 
and I sure as hell am not going outside. " Last week a friend entertained me . with the tale of his older brother, who . after walking against the wind, arrived 

at class unaware that he had lines of 

• 
snot frozen to the sides of his face. Just yesterday on the way to breakfast, I avoided this fate when one of my nos­


. trils literally froze',.closed before any­
thing my nose could run. . So while I'll likely be waiting for a · few hours in the cold today to get my ~ lottery number, I'll be facing the frigid ' temperature by thinking of football, 
• salsa and Arizona. And even if we go : home for break to a place where it >isn't much warmer in January, we can : at least go to sleep with visions of 
Tempe and nachos dancing in our :heads. 
Contact Tim Kaiser atl tkaiser@nd.edu -. The uiews expressed in the Inside 
• Column are those of the author and ~ not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
CORRECTIONS 

In an article in the Dec. 2 edition ofThe Observer, a pull quote was mistakenly attributed to American Studies major Jennifer Lucetta. Political science major Adam Russell was the acrual speaker. Lucetta also was misrepresented when references to her friends were taken out ofcontext. The Observer regrets these errors. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, December 7, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK? 






hit man for cheese of the four intended victims MEMPHIS, Tenn. -In an'-:--last week when she mistook 
unusual case of mistaken identity, a woman who thought a block of white cheese was cocaine is charged with trying to hire a hit man to rob and kill four men. The woman also was mistaken about the hit man. He turned out to QC an undercover police officer. 
Jessica Sandy Booth, 18, was arrested over the weekend and remains in jail with bond set at $1 million on four charges of attempt­ed murder and four counts of soliciting a murder. 
According to police, Booth 
TODAY 

a:: 
LIJ :::E: 
~ 
LIJ 
3: 
..... 
c:C 
(,) 





0 
HIGH 21 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 
LOW 15 LOW LOW LOW 
10 5 
23 16 
26 14 

Atlanta 50 I 36 Boston 32 I 18 Chicago 19 I 12 Denver 7 I 1 Houston 58 I 38 Los Angeles 70 I 46 Minneapolis 15 I 1 New York 35 I 22 Philadelphia 36 I 21 Phoenix 64 I 39 Seattle 41 I 31 St. Louis 23 I 16 Tampa 73 I 62 Washington 37 I 23 
.... .. ............................................
~ .~ ~ ~---···--,. ~-­
a block of queso fresco cheese for cocaine -inspir­ing the idea to hire some­one to break into the home, take the drugs, and kill the men. 
An informant described the plot to police, who arranged a meeting between Booth and the undercover officer. 
Man jailed after biting head off gecko 
PORT JERVIS, N.Y. -A 19-year-old · man was behind bars Tuesday after allegedly biting1.he Oplld, 0ff 
. ··.-··'\ 
TONIGHT 
FRIDAY 
Derrick Ford was being held in the Orange County Jail after being charged with felony animal cruelty, police said . 
Ford was at a friend's home Sunday when some­one bet him $10 that he wouldn't bite the head off a gecko, the Times Herald­Record of Middletown reported. 
Though Ford won the bet, it wasn't long before police showed up and placed him under arrest, the newspa­per said. 
Information compiled from the Associat~ Press. 



game. game. 
IN BRIEF 
A "Christmas at the CoMo" benefit concert will be held tonight in the Hamme:s 'Student Lounge of th.e .Coleman Morse Ce.nter from 8 
p.m. to 9. NO Celebratwn and instrume.ntalists will perform, and the pub\~9. ~~invited to attend. · . , 
,In anticipation of the film pr'einier of "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe," Father Chades,,G.~rdon will give a talk entitl,ed ''Anticipating Narnia" Thursday at 8 p.m. in room 102 DeBartolo Hall . 
A panel discussion entitled 
·,.,._..The Social Security Puzzle: Dispelling Myths, Discussing Solutions" will take place Friday at 3 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium in Mendoza College of Business. Panelists will objectively examine the government's economic assis­tance program, analyze com­mon misconceptions and seek practical solutions. The dis­cussion is open to the general public. 
For those students interest­ed in walk-on tryouts for next year's Notre Dame football team, information sheets are available from the football office in the Guglielmino Athletics Complex. Students interested should fill out the information sheet and return it by Jan. 18 if they are inter­ested in trying out. A meeting will then be held on Jan. 23 at 
!5 p.m. in the Guglielmino "complex for those who turned in the sheets. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detaile(i information about an euent to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 




HIGH 37 LOW 26 
Beth Hagerty Molly Dawes Meghan Newcomb Katie Palumbo Kaitlin Jensen Tom Mazzacavallo 
sophomore sophomore sophomore freshman freshman freshman Breen-Phillips Breen-Phillips Breen-Phillips Lewis Lewis Zahm 
"Christmas in "Moving to "Finding an "Going home to "Going to Katie "Going to Katie ·the Caribbean Houston and · irish pub· where ,, Phoenix." Palumbo's Palumbo's 
,.:Ht'IJ

·alia soaktng up gettiii}tii.:tart~ ;, ., j cdn w.(l't(}l my house for the house for the 
the sun. " Irish beat OSU!" 
MARY KATE Inflatable Christmas decorations are set up outside of Stanford Hall. Students have helped decorate the outside of their halls since returning from Thanksgiving break. 
OFFBEAT 
Woman allegedly hires was in the Memphis home· ··a gecko as part of a bet. 
Wednesday, December 7, 2005 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 3 
Village planned for musicians 
Music center at the hub would offer lessons and show performances 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Singer Harry Connick Jr. and saxo­phone player Branford Marsalis are working with Habitat for Humanity to cre­ate a "village" for New Orleans musicians who lost their homes to Hurricane Katrina. 
More than $2 million has been raised for the project dreamed up by Connick and Marsalis -a neighborhood built around a music center where musicians can teach and perform, said Jim Pate, executive director of New Orleans Area Habitat for Humanity. 
The first $1 million came from benefit concerts in New York three weeks after the storm, said Quint Davis, the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival producer who helped arrange the con­certs. 
"The money being used to build these homes for New Orle1.ms musicians was raised by New Orleans musicians. Our pact with them was to help New Orleans' musical community," Davis said at a news conference Tuesday. 
In a telephone interview Monday, Connick said he and Marsalis -both honorary chairs for the national Habitat's hurricane rebuild­ing program -returned to their hometown several weeks after the storm and were trying to think of ways to help. 
"I had been kind of coming up blank. The problem is so massive, it's hard to know where to begin," Connick said. "As we talked, we both realized we should really stick to. what we know, which is music." 
Connick said four or five of the 16 musicians in his own band lost their homes. "There's a ton of musicians who have no place to go," he said. 
Pate said Habitat hasn't decided on a location for the village, but is looking at three older, predominantly black neighborhoods in New Orleans. 
He said $7.5 million to $15 million is needed for the proj­ect, which would include a music center named for Ellis Marsalis, the jazz pianist, educator and patriarch of the musical family that includes Branford, Wynton, Delfeayo and Jason. 
"Ellis has been kind of a rock for music in this city," Mayor C. Ray Nagin said. 
Branford Marsalis said the project is a thank you to the musicians "who made it pos­sible for people like me and my brother Wynton and Harry Connick Jr. to get out and spread the word." 
Habitat. cannot reserve houses for a specific group, 
and non-musicians would also live in the village, Pate said. However, musicians who lost their houses and have no or too little insurance -and will provide labor for a Habitat house -will be asked if they'd like to live there. 
"We'd hope some of our musician partner families could do some of their sweat equity by doing performances or concerts for some of our volunteers who are coming from all over the world," Pate said. 
It's a fantastic idea, said Banu Gibson, who sings '20s and '30s jazz. 
"So many musicians have moved out of town, and a lot of the good ones, too, which is really depressing," she said. 
Gibson is back in her own house, but two of the seven musicians in her band lost homes they had bought in the last couple of years. "All the money they raised to put down as a house payment, $25,000 to $35,000, is gone," she said. 
Bassist Peter "Chuck" Badie, 80, would love to see the dream become reality, and to live in a Habitat home. 
"I'd be tickled to death," said Badie, who's staying at a jazz enthusiast's home after floods destroyed his house in the Lower Ninth Ward. "A vil­lage for musicians would be the finest thing. But build it where?" 



Foriner professor is aquitted of charges 
Associated Press 
TAMPA -For more than five months, jurors in the case of a former professor accused of helping lead a Palestinian ter­rorist group reviewed hundreds of documents, heard from dozens of witnesses and watched videos in which the defendants appeared to speak glowingly of suicide bombers. 
But it wasn't enough. Sami Al­Arian was acquitted Tuesday on nearly half the charges against him, and the jury deadlocked on the rest in a stinging defeat for the federal government. His case was seen as one of the biggest courtroom tests yet of the Patriot Act's expanded search-and-sur­veillance powers. 
Al-Arian and three co-defen­dants were accused of being the communications arm of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, spreading the word and raising money that went toward suicide attacks that have killed hun­dreds in Israel. 
But the jury could not convict any of the four on the charges laid out in a complex, 51-count indictment. Al-Arian was acquit· ted of eight of the 17 counts against him, including a key charge of conspiring to maim and murder people overseas. 
A male juror, whose name was being kept secret by the court, said the case came down to lack of proof: "I didn't see the evi­dence." 

Al-Arian, 4 7, wept after the verdicts, and his attorney Linda Moreno hugged him. He will remain jailed until prosecutors decide whether to retry him on the deadlocked counts. 
Two co-defendants, Sameeh Hammoudeh and Ghassan Zayed Ballut, were acquitted of all charges. A third, Hatem Naji Fariz, was found not guilty of 25 counts, and jurors deadlocked on the remaining eight. 
"While we respect the jury's verdict, we stand by the evi· dence we presented in court," Justice Department spokes­woman Tasia Scolinos said. 
Al-Arian's wife, Nabla, cele­brated with relatives and sup· porters outside the courthouse. "I'm ecstatic," she said. "My husband is an outspoken Palestinian activist who loved this country, believed in the sys­tem, and the system did not fail him." 
Moreno said she hoped prose­cutors would take into account the "overwhelming number of not-guilty verdicts" against the defendants in deciding whether to try him again. She said she will ask the court soon to release Al-Arian from jail. 
Al·Arian, a former University of South Florida computer sci· ence professor, was considered one of the most important ter­rorist figures to be brought to trial in the United States since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorism attacks. 

 
f' Friday, December 9 f:9PM-11PM ~ Legends 'k.. Free t-shlrts to the first SO people D.J. -tf: Food 'k..~ Dancing  

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 7, 2005 
Printing 

continued from page 1 
OIT and the Office of Residence Life and Housing were responsible for oversee­ing the project, which has been successful thus far, said Pamela Lay, ResNet program support manager at OIT. 
Last spring, OIT conducted a test pilot program to see if the printers would work and to see if students would use them. 
The most-used printers are in Welsh Family, Lewis and Keenan-Stanford, Lay said. The Pasquerilla West and Farley printers are the least utilized. Lay believes this may be because residents either do not realize the printers are available or because they can­not connect to them. 
OIT informed students about the availability of the printers through insideND early in the fall semester. In Farley, OIT has placed posters in the halls to raise awareness of the new printing option. 
Use of the printer is not limit­ed to the residents of the host dorm, Lay said. Any student on the NOMAD network can download the printing software and pick up their print job at one of the available dorms. 
Some students have said they run into problems staying con­nected to the printer. Lay said this problem is usually seen in computers with XP Home Edition, which have more diffi­culty maintaining the path to the printer than the XP Professional Edition. 
Sophomore Christina Ginardi said she frequently uses the printer in her dorm, Welsh Family, but she has had some problems with printing. 
"Sometimes you need to reconnect with it," she said. 
Lay said there are currently no plans to expand the printer availability into other dorms. 
"If anyone has a request that they want printing ability expanded, they need to talk to [the Office of Residence Life and Housing]," Lay said. 
Jeffrey Shoup, director of Residence Life and Housing, said the reason Notre Dame did not originally put a printer in every dorm is because there was not funding for one in every hall. 
"We tried to do it at various locations where they would be accessible, not all clumped together in one quad," he said. 
Lay said she did not know if there has been a significant drop in personal printers since the installation of printers in dorms. lf there hasn't been a drop, she said this could be due to the late notification that printers would be available in dorms this year. 
"I doubt that there would have been a reduction this year," Lay said. "However, there could be a reduction next year with the printers now available." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 



Please recycle The Observer. 

ness to Jesus' resurrection. was actually The film on this book will aired, were be in theaters May 19, 2006. intensely emo­
McBrien commented on the tional," McBrien novel in the ABC said in a Nov. Documentary "Jesus, Mary 24, 2003 col­and Da Vinci," which aired umn. Nov. 3, 2003. McBrien said 
"I did comment on the he received novel in an ABC documentary reactions that has been re-aired sever­"across the reli­al times," McBrien said. "It gious spectrum" was my original appearance about his on that documentary two appearance in years ago that led the pro­the documentary. 
cussing it," he said in his Dec. 1 column. 
McBrien said he did receive positive reactions, as well. 
While McBrien said in his Nov. 24 column that Jesus could in fact have been mar­ried, there is no evidence in "the New Testament or in 
Da Vinci 
continued from page 1 
and literature as a prostitute. She is depicted in the Bible, however, as a devoted follow­er of Jesus and the first wit­weekly columns for the Catholic press about the ABC documentary. 
"A mere discussion of such an hypothesis is guaranteed to bring some people out of the proverbial woodwork, and it did. Reactions to the documentary, even before it 
"I won't see the final product until everyone else does when the movie comes out in May." 
Richard McBrien theology professor 
Christian tradi­tion that he was." 
In McBrien's Catholicism book, he said there is no evi" dence that Jesus was married and that "what evi­dence does exist undermines such a claim," according to the 
Dec. 1, 2003 column. 

McBrien also said Jesus' divinity still would not be compromised if he had, in fact, been married. 
"As St. Paul reminded us in the Letter to the Hebrews, Jesus was like us in all things except sin (4:15). The sexual expression of love within marriage i.s not sinful," McBrien said in the Nov. 24 column. 
Brown's book has been on the New York Times Best Seller List for Hardcover Fiction for 138 weeks. "The Da Vinci Code" was named book of the year at the British Book Awards in April 2005. 
In addition to Howard, Oscar-winners Akiva Goldsman (a screenwriter) and Brian Grazer (a produc­er) are also involved in the film. Actors Tom Hanks, Audrey Tautou and Ian McKellen star in the film. 
"I won't see the final prod­uct until everyone else does when the movie comes out in May," McBrien said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

ducers of the film to approach me to become a consultant for the film ver­sion of the novel." 
McBrien wrote two of his 
"I think what bothered most critics was the fact that the question [of Jesus being mar­ried] was even being raised and that I was open to dis-


WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK tr 
54570N.IRONWOODDR. SOUTH BEND/MISHAWAKA 5343N.MAINST. 
57 4.277.8500 57 4.968.4600 
"YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOifN'S!'' @ 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, December 7, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bombers attack police academy 
BAGIII>AI>, Iraq -Two suicide bombPrs strUI:k Baghdad's police academy Tuesday, killing at ln<L<;t 43 p!10ple 1md wounding 73 more, U.S. ollicials said, whiln Al-Jazeera broadcast an insurgnnt vidno daiming to have kidnapped a 
U.S. sm:urity consultant. 
Tlw suiddn attackers wore wearing nxplosives­laden vnsts and a U.S. eontrador was among those woundnd, a U.S. military statement said. 
U.S. threes rushnd to tho seene to provide assis­tanen, thn statnmnnt said. Thn military initially said tlw bomlll1rs wnn1 women but later rntrad­ml tJw statmnont. 
"We Wl1ro sitting in the yard when we heard an 11xplosion." said poliee Maj. Wisam al-lleyali. "Sneonds latnr, wn wen1 hit by another nxplosion <L<; w11 worn running. I saw some of' my collnaguos litlling down and I li~lt my hand hit, but I kept on running." 
Israel reacts to Palestinian attack 
.li·:HUSAI.EM -lsraPI damped an op1m-nndnd dosure on tlw West Bank and Gaza Tunsday, banning virtually all Pall~stinians from lsranl, and arrested 15 Palnslinian militants in a lirst rnsponsn to a sukidn bombing that killnd five lsranlis ouL-;ido a shopping mall. 
lsnwli ollidals also said tho army would target lslarnir .Jihad operativns in tl11~ West Bank, botJ1 through arrnst raids and targeted killings of oporatiV11S, and rnnow airstrikns in the Gaza Strip in msponsn to any Palnstinian roeknt attacks. 
"Wn d11ddnd to opnratn in a mueh broader, much dm1por and morn intnnsivn manner against tho Islamic .Jihad inlhL-;trudurn. and I hope that wn will bn ahll1 to prnvnnt sueh attacks in the futuro," l>ol\msn Minister Shaul Molaz told Army Hadio allnr a late-night meeting of soeurity olli­dals. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

House will vote to secure borders 
WASIIINC;TON -The llousn is to votn next wonk on lngislation that strnngthnns border sncurity and roquires workplace enfbrcmnent of immigration law but dons not ol1'11r a guest worknr proJ.,rram, a goal of PrnsidPnt Bush and many in ConJ.,rrnss. 
llousn .I udidary Com mitten Chairman .James Snnsnnbrnnrwr, H-Wis., who crafted tho bill, said hn supports a guest worker program, which would provide temporary visas for unskilled labor. Some guest worker proposals would allow illngal immigrants already ~n the country to participate, although Snnsnnhrnnnnr has not stated a position on that issun. But he said that without a dnar eonsnnsus on what that program would entail, "I bdinve it is wise to move cautiously." 
Citizenship office chanf,(es test 
WASIIINGTON -Questions on the nation's citizenship tost will be revi-;ed to focus on basic civics and won't bn the sort that would stir aca­demic debate, the head of the fedPral citizfm­ship ofliee said Tuesday. 
Alfonso Aguilar, chief of the U.S. Oflke of r.itizenship, said thn agency plans to have a study done by nnxt rnonili on whether the test must bn rndesignnd or merely rnvised. He said that although nothing is delinit11 yet, "We are indinnd to revise the current test, rathnr than totally rndnsi~-,rn thn test." 
Thn ehanges should 1m eompleted by January 2007 and in use by January 2008, AJ.,ruilar said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Democratic senator Lutz to retire 
INI>IANAI'OLIS -Stat11 Sen. Larry Lutz, a l>nmocrat who has r11pn~snnted southwestern Indiana for morn than 20 years, announced TuPsday that he will not seek rn-nlection nnxt ynar. 
Lutz, 1>-Evansville, was first lllednd to the lnrlimm I hlUSl1 of HPprnsnnt.ativns in 11JS3. lin was appoin1J1d 1J1 tlw Indiana Sena!J~ in 1999 1J1 fill thn term of Statn Smt. .Joseph O'Day, who dind allnr tlw Novmnl:Mn· IIJIJS nleetion. 
Lutz, 67, said in a statement that he wa.•.; hon­ornd IJ1 s.1rved Snna!J1 DL-;triet 49, whieh indudns portions of Gibson, Posey and Vanderburgh Counties. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE SERVJCEs page 5 


IRAQ 

Al-Jazeera broadcasts video of captives 
Kidnappings seem intended to coincide with Hussein's trial and upcoming elections 
Associated Press 
BAGIIDAD, Iraq -Al­Jazcera broadcast a vidno Tuesday claiming insur­gents kidnapped a U.S. security consultant, and the militants displayed a blond, Wostnrn-looking man sitting with his hands tied behind his back. 
The video also bore the logo of the Islamic Army in Iraq and showed a U.S. passport and an identifica­tion card. 
Thn authenticity of the vidno could not be immodi­ately confirmed. 
II' true, the man would become the second American taken hostage in the last two weeks. A U.S. citizen was among four Christian peace activists taken hostage on Nov. 27 by a group calling itself the Swords of Righteousness Brigade. Two Canadians and a Briton were also part of that group. 
Last week, Al-Jazenra broadcast a videotape and statement in which the Swords of Highteousness Brigade threatened to kill those hostages unless all prisoners in U.S. and Iraqi dotention centers were freed by Dec. 8. 

The Christian activists -Tuesday he didn't have any ers. It did not name the policy to go back to kidnap­Tom Fox, 54, of Clear new information about the diplomat. pings," ho said. "The Pine­Brook, Va.; Norman kidnapping of the French Straw, however, under­lions arn coming and those Kember, 74, of London; engineer, Bernard Planche, lined the British govern­groups want attention and James Loney, 41, of but that the interior min­ment's refusal to negotiate publicity. That way tiH~ir Toronto. and Harmeet istry had distributed with kidnappors or pay ran­political statmnent will get a Singh Sooden, 32, also of Planehe's photo to all the som. prio.ri~,Y in the Wostern Canada had been checkpoints around There is no evidAnee the modm. warned by security ollicials Baghdad. kidnappings were coordi­Iraq was swept by a wavo they were taking a grave In London, British Foreign nated, but the ineidents of kidnappings and bnhead­risk by moving around Secretary Jack Straw on seem timed to coincide with ings of foreigners in 2004 Baghdad without body­Monday encouraged the Saddam Hussein's trial or and early 2005, but such J.,'Uards. kidnappers of the Briton to the Dec. 15 elections. attaeks fell off in rncnnt 
A French engineer was make contact, saying "We Mustafa Alani, diredor of months as many Westnrn also taken hostage in stand ready to hear what security and terrorism stud­groups have left and sncuri­Baghdad on Monday and a they have to say." ies at the Gulf Research ty precautions for thosn German aid worker was The British Broadcasting Center in Dubai, United who romain have tightennd. abducted near Mosul on Corp. cited a Western diplo­Arab Emiratns, said he Insurgents, including ai­Nov. 26. mat in Baghdad as saying thinks the sudden increase Qaida in Iraq, have seized 
Police Maj. Falah al-direct contact had been is not an aecident. more than 225 pnople, Mohammadawi said made with the hostage-tak-"There is some sort of killing at least 38. 


Katrina survivors describe response as racist 
said military troops focused machine "You believe what you want,"
Associated Press 
gw1 laser targets on her t,rranddaugh­Thompson said. 

WASHINGTON-Black survivors of ter's forehead. Others said thPir fami­Tlw hParing was held by a special llurrieane Katrina said Tuosday that lies were called racial epithets by llousP l~ommittol'. rhairnd by H11p. Tom racism contributed to the slow disaster police. Davis, H-Va., invnstigating the govern­rosponsP, at times likening themsnlves "No on11 is going to tell me it wasn't a mont's preparations and n1sponsn to in emotional congressional testimony racn issue," said New Orleans evacuee Katrina. It was rnquestnd by Hop. to victims of genoeide and the Patrieia Thompson, 53, who is now liv­Cynthia MeKinnny, D-<ia., a member of lloloeaust. ing in College Station, Texas. "Yos, it tho Congressional Blaek Cmu~us. 
The comparison is inappropriate, was an issue of race. Because of one "Hadsm is son!'ething we don't like to aeeording to Rep. Jell' Millor, H-Fla. thing: whPn the eity had protty much talk about. hut wn have to al:knowl­
"Not a single person was marched been evaeuatnd, the people that wnw edgn it." MeKinnny said. "And the into a gas chambnr and killed," Miller left thern mostly was blaek." world saw tho nfl'nets of Amnril:an-styln told the survivors. Not all lawmak11rs seemed persuad­raeism in tho drama as it was out­
"They died from abject neglect," ed. played by tlw Katrina survivors." retorted community activist Leah "I don't want to be oll'ensivo whnn The live whitP and two black law­llodges. "We left body bags bnhind." you've gone though such ineredible maknrs who attendnd the hearing 
Angry evacuees described being challenges," said Rep. Christopher mostly sat quiotly during two and a half trapped in temporary shnltors where Shays, H-Conn. But referring to some hours of tnslimony. But tempors llarod one New Orlnans resident said she was of the victims' charges, like the gun when evacum1s worn asked by Hep . .Jnfl' "one sunrisP from bning consumed by pointed at the girl, Shays said: "I just Miller, H-Fla., to not compare sheltnr maggots and flies." Another woman don't frankly believe it." conditions to a concentration camp. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 7, 2005 
competent they would presum­"At this point we really just ''I'd like to be a fly on the wall of ber of folks here," she said. "As a 
ably be after the proposed institu­want to centralize conversations the committee who's going to less racially and religiously

Culture 
continued from page 1 
gate through cultural experiences or comprehend different cultural people." 
Some faculty members expressed concern with the ambi­guity of the term, but Boyd said the word "cultural" is meant to be a bit vague-"that's an issue." 
"[The Minority Affairs commit­tee] does not have the authority or jurisdiction to define what 'cultur­al' should be," she said. "We want to leave it up to this [proposed] committee to determine what it should be." 
History professor Gail Bederman said adversity faced when attempting to define such a term transcends the Notre Dame community. 
"American academics as a whole has been debating this 'what do you call this'-diversity, culture ... It seems like we're chastising the committee for deal­ing with something that has been [debated] in many universities," she said. 
Marketing professor John Gaski said the term's vagueness leads to "a lot of assuming." 
"What if the Notre Dame stu­dent body is the most culturally competent student body in the country?" he asked. "Isn't there some kind of measure? Maybe we'll find out we're in the 99th percentile -shouldn't that be investigated?" 
But members said it would be difficult -if not impossible -to measure how culturally compe­tent Notre Dame students are currently, and how culturally 


Change 
continued from page 1 
will enjoy their time away from dorm life. 
"I think it's nice for the students because they have a longer winter break to relax or earn money for school," she said. 
The College's academic calen­dar is developed from a perpetual calendar established by Notre Dame many years ago, Kitchner said. This year the calendar allows for an additional week because Christmas falls on a Sunday. 
Notre Dame registrar Harold Pace said the University's academ­ic calendar rules dictate that the fall semester always begins on the fourth Tuesday in August and that the spring semester commences on the second or third Tuesday in January-based on the fact that graduation will fall on the third Sunday of May. 
These are the same calendar regulations that Saint Mary's fol­lows, but the College now begins semesters on Monday, has one fewer study day during finals week and holds commencement on the third Saturday of May. 
"I am really excited for the long break. It has been a tough semes­ter, and I think all the students should be able to take advantage of it," Saint Mary's junior resi­dence advisor Laura Cucco said. "As an RA, I am not so happy tional improvements were imple­mented. 

East Asian languages and liter­atures professor Xiaoshan Yang said from personal experience, "the majority of Notre Dame stu­dents do not have a lot of cultural exposure." 
"If they go abroad, they go Dublin, they go to London, they go to Australia," he said. "My gut feeling is yes, our students are less exposed." 
Student activities committee chair and physics professor Phillipe Collon said the term cul­tural competency can be "wide," and therefore difficult to measure. 
"If I compare our students to those students who run around at Berkeley, I'd say yes, we are a more homogenous group," he said. "[But] a metric is impossible when we don't say what we mean by it." 
Boyd said questions about the measurability of a cultural com­petency requirement have been considered by the Minority Affairs committee. 
"We really don't have the authority to [determine] how to evaluate cultural competency," she said. "We are looking for something every student has to take . . . [but] at this point we are not advocating a requirement. We're looking to see how the committee thinks it can be done." 
Boyd said the Minority Affairs committee is seeking the help of outside sources -like Faculty Senate -to establish a commit­tee that would assess the feasibili­ty of adding another course to the curriculum and other institutional changes. 
about the school starting on Monday because it is just going to be a mad rush around campus with the students only being able to return on Sunday [Jan. 15]." 
Saint Mary's junior Bridget Green agreed and said she typi­cally takes advantage of the class­free Monday to register, purchase books and look up additional information on her classes. 
"I know that, like most people, I return to campus Sunday night," Green said. "I usually use that Monday to get back in the swing of things. I just think now there will be lots of confusion on cam­pus." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
11V'be..e 
and realize a concrete way [to do this]," she said. "The Minority Affairs committee feels that what would be best is something formal -students should take it serious­ly." 
Members said added require­ments might hamper students who already bear heavy course loads, but Rhea offered the possi­bility of a "double requirement" that would tie in cultural compe­tency credit with other University or college requirements. 
Student body president Dave Baron said the minority affairs committee members identified "50 or so" classes they thought might count in the requirement­but weren't certain on the feasi­bility. 
determine [what counts]," Gaski said. 
Boyd said the "biggest thing" the Minority Affairs committee identified is that every Notre Dame student should in some way be exposed to other cultures. 
"If you don't make it available to every student, it's very possible for students to surround them­selves in classes and with people very much like their own back­ground," she said. 
Bederman said Notre Dame's status as a Catholic university is simultaneously a strength and a weakness. 
"Our mission as a Catholic uni­versity encourages our students to be American, Catholic -and that's great-but it also limits the num­

l
vn-A ~::;£ool 
~nu•t•s~ 
,.. All' 
""'Y"'" 


2006-2007 

diverse [institution], it wouldn't kill us to have a requirement [like this]." 
Vice President and Associate Provost Jean Ann Linney said one of the problems is that people are "dancing around the issue." 
"Are we going to address this or are we going to back way from it? We need students and faculty groups to engage together," she said. "In [University President Father John Jenkins'] inaugural address, he said diversity is part of our Catholicity -and we need to talk about it more seriously, think about it more and address it more seriously." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

Assistant Rector Applications 
for 

Undergraduate Residence Halls and Fischer O'Hara Grace Graduate Residences are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
For more information call the 
Office of Student Affairs at 631-6144 
or go to 
http://osa.nd.edu for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed applications must be submitted by February 10, 2006 

wwill yoa be :l'o.. b ..ea.k?? 
If in Columbus, Philadelphia or Boston, be sure to catch ... 

rhe University of Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 2006 Winter Tour 
Sharing Sacred Music from the Basilica of the Sacred Heart with Audiences in the Midwest and Northeast 


COLUMBUS, OH Sun Jan. gth at 7:30pm St. Joseph's Cathedral Columbus, Ohio PHILADELPHIA, PA 
Mon .Jan 9th at 8:00pm St. Patrick's Church 
Philadelphia, PA 

For more information log-on to: www.nd.edu/-litchoir Ticket Availability and Pricing Subject to Location 
Bring friends and family for this unique Notre Dame experience avvay from campus! 
BOSTON, MA 
Wed Jan 11th at 7:30pm St. Catherine of Sienna Norwood, MA 
Fri .Jan 13th at 7:00pm Immaculate Conception Cranston, RI 
Sat Jan 14th at Noon Our Lady of Mt. Cam1el Seekonk, MA 



THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

NYSE approves $9 billion deal 
10,873.27 +38.26 

NYSE acquires Archipelago Holdings Inc. and becomes for-profit enterprise 
Upt Same: Down: ComposlteVolum Associated Press 1,880 ISS JI'S 1,731,801,820 

NEW YOHK -Seat own­flrs of the New York Stock
1,750.22 +11.88., 

Exchange voted Tuesday to 2,,265.16 +7.52 
acquire Arehipolago lloldi ngs Inc. in a $9 billion
7j787.19 +27.95 

deal that will turn tho 2U­
I ,264.97 +2.88 

Dow 
}ones 
AMEX 
NASDAQ NYSf 
S&PSOO 
NIKKE.I(Tokyo) (5,423.38 ~127.93 FTSf IOO(London) 5,538.80 +28.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) +0.65 +0.27 42.07 JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) + 1.95 +0.052 2.712 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.32 -0.09 27.76 SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW) +2.00 +0.08 4.08 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.11 +0.02 17.52 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.45 -0.69 46.94 
I0-YEAR NOTE -1.60 -0.73 44.94 
5-YEAR NOTE -1.58 -0.71 44.21 
3-MONTH BILL +0.56 +0.22 39.32 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.03 59.94 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) +1.20 513.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.45 87.58 
fxcha Rates 

YEN 
120.8050 EURO 
0.8483 POUND 
0.5740 CANADIAN$ 
1.1574 


IN BRIEF 
Ford pulls~ am from gay publications 
lli\TBOIT-Ford Motor Co. said Tuesday its luxury .Jaguar and Land Hover brands will no longer advertise in gay publications, but the nation's second-largest automaker denied that it made the decision under prnssurn from con­servatiVP Christian groups. 
"The decisions with regard to advertising was a business decision," Ford spokesman Mike Moran said. lie said Ford's Volvo brand would continue advertising in gay publica­tions. Ford has not adv1~rtised its Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brands in those publiea­tions, Moran added. 
Moran said .Jaguar and Land Hover, which are part of Ford's money-losing Premier Automotivn Croup, havn decidod to eut back on their advertising everywhere because of difficult rnarknt conditions. The Premier Automotive Group reported a pretax loss of $1 OS million in the third quarter. 
"They feel pressure on their marketing budgets, so they deeided to ~>treamline mar­knting across the board," Moran said. "They're not supporting as many publications and events as before in 2006." 
Submarine builder to cut 2,400 jobs 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. -Submarine builder Eloctric Boat will eut up to 2,400 jobs next ynar and warnnd that it could nliminatn half of its work force in eoming years as it faces a dwindling submarine market and a Navy poli­cy directing repair work to its own shipyards. 
President .John Casny said the decision to cut up to 20 pnn:nnt of his work force next year was a "despicable task" hut said the futuro of tlw company is at stake. 
Most jobs will bn cut at tho Connecticut shipyard in c;roton, hut hetwenn 500 and 600 will lw eliminatnd from its llhodn Island facil­ity. 
1·: le ct. r i r Bo at , a d i vi s i o n o f G11111~ r a I l>ynamic·s Corp., Pmploys II,HOO peopln. 
Af't.-r 200(,, rompany spokesman Bob llanrill.on said. tl11• numlwrs gnt. murky. but lw said !'OIIIJHlny proj.-rtions inrludn a :iO pur­('l'nt rPdtwt.ion il' nPW rontrarts arl'n't. award­PI!. Thai. would nwan a work l'ol'!'e ol' about h.OIIII in a rPgion wlwrn suhmarinn building is a way ol' Iii'!'. 

yoar-old Big Board into a for-profit enterprise with high-teeh eomputerizod trading capabilities. 
As expected, morn than 95 percent of the seat own­nrs who votnd approved the deal, according to thn oxehange, with more than 90 percont of mnmbnrs vot­ing. Thorn arn 1,366 seats on the exchangn. 
"This is a truly historic day for the New York Stock Exchange and an event of great importance for our future and that of our cus­tomers and Americas capi­tal markets," NYSE Chiof Executive John Thain said in a statmnent. "This trans­action gives the NYSE a strong platform for futuro growth. value creation, and competitive positioning on a global basis." 
Archipelago sharehold­ers, mooting in Chicago, approved the deal Tuesday morning, the eompany said in a statemnnt. A spokes­woman for Archipelago said the company did not plan to release a vote tally. 
Undor tho agreement, NYSE seat owners will receive more than $5 mil­stocks through month after the NYSE Nasdaq Stock Market Inc., lion for each seat, though Archipelago's all-electronic agreed to have Citigroup investors am likely to bene­only $300,000 of that will trading system. The deal author a fairness opinion lit from bettor transal'.tion be in cash. The rest will bfl also increases the on the deal. Citigroup con­speeds as well as lower stock in the new company, exchange's market sharn in eluded that the deal was fees as the two major mar­which seat owners will be exchange-traded funds and fair to all involved. kets compete for business. restrieted in selling for up derivatives trading. Archipelago shareholders The deal, if it goes to three years. Archipelago While NYSE seat owners have seen the value of their through, would dilute shareholders will have roundly approved the dflal, stock quadruple since the Boston Scientif'ic's cash their shares transfered to a small group of dissidents, merger was announced earnings per share through the new company, to be led by longtime seat owner April 20, while the value of 2007, the company said. called The NYSE Group William Higgins, had seats on tho exchange rose Moody's Investors Service Inc., on a one-for-one fought the deal in eourt, from $975,000 in January said it was reviewing basis. saying Goldman Sachs to a record $4 million last Boston Scientilic for possi­
The new company will Group Inc.'s involvment in week. Two more seats sold ble downgrade, and Fitch have the eapability to not advising both Area and the for that amount Tuesday Hatings plaeed Boston only trade stocks listed at NYSE led to severe con­before the vote. Seientifie on a ratings the NYSE, but also Nasdaq­llicts of interest. As the NYSE prepares to watch while downgrading listed and over-the-counter Higgins settled last take on all-electronic rival Guidant. 



NBC and Apple team up to sell shows online 
Associated Press 

SAN JOSE, Calif. -NBC Universal has inked a deal with Apple Computer Inc. to become the second network to sell television shows a Ia earte on Apple's online iTunes store, the eompanins announced Tuesday. 
· More than 300 episodes from about a dozen prime time, cable, late-night and dassie TV shows are now available for $1.99 apiece, viowabln on computers or download­able on tho latest, video-capable iPod. 
The programming spans from the I!J50s to tho present, including shows from "Aifn~d llitcheock Presents," "l>ragrwt.," USA Network's "Monk." t. h n Sci-F i C h a nr11d 's "Batt.lestar c;alactka." and NBC\ hit series "Law ,Iii. Order." Sknt.dws from "Tiw Tonight Show with .lay LPno" and "Lat.n Night. with Conan O'Brien" are also for salt~. 
Apple unleashed a dramatically different way of distributing televi­sion programs when it debuted videos for sale on its iTunes Musie Store on Oct. 20 with Walt Disney Co.'s ABC as its first network part­ner. Customers have since down­loaded more than three million videos. 
The latest deal expands Apple's TV catalog from live shows to 16. Terms of the deal were not dis­dosed. 
For NBC, the move is part of its growing digital distribution strategy to be "as ubiquitous as possible," Jeff Zucker, president of (ieneral 1\lnctric Co.'s NBC Univnrsal Tnlnvision Croup, said in a phonn intnrvinw. 
Till' rwt work rocently <;ignnd a dna! to begin selling n~plays of its most popular shows on an on-demand basis through satl'llite TV provider Din~cTV c;roup Inc.. and last. month announced it is collaborating with Sprint Nextel Corp. to make Leno's monologue and comic sketches avail­able on mobile phones. 
NBC had been in talks with Apple's chief executive Steve .Jobs since the beginning of the year as Apple was developing its new video-playing iPod, Zucker said. 
"Seeing how well it's been receivnd by the consumer has givnn us a lot more comfort and eonl'idnnen with it," Zucker said of tho downloadable TV shows. "As long as our eontnnt is protected from piracy. thnn thorn will be no barrinrs." 
"There's certainly morn to r.omn," he said. 
Videos sold on iTunes an~ wrappPd in AppiP's mpyright-prot.nct.ion tech­nology, whirh allows usnrs to ston• thnir ptiiThasPd ('Oilt.Pnt. on up t.o liVI' computers and transl'nr t.hPm to il'ods. Usnr<> rannot ropy t.hP TV shows to a CD, I>VI> or· t.lw lnt.PrnPt.. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 7, 2005 

Storin 
continued from page 1 
coast and he and his wife recently built a home in Maine, Starin said he would like to spend summers there, which would be impossible while remaining associate vice president. 
The University has not yet named a permanent replace­ment for Starin, whose retirement is effective Dec. 31 but may wait until after Notre Dame's trip to the Jan. 2 Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Ariz., he said. 
Associate Director of News and Information Dennis Brown -who, along with candidates external to the University, is a candidate to succeed Starin -will take over Starin's duties in the interim, Starin said. 
Starin will continue to teach one course per semes­ter at the Un~versity, adding a fall course on the role of news in American life to the spring Media Ethics course he has taught since 2004. 
"[Teaching] opened a whole new world to me," he said. "The students here are pretty special, both intellec­tually and in who they are, and I think that coming [to Notre Dame] in this particu­lar point in my life ... was probably the best decision I've made in my career. 
"The thing I enjoyed about being editor of the Boston Globe was working with young reporters, so here I've been able to do a little bit of that -and it's very, very important that students of the kind we have here at Notre Dame enter the field of journalism." 
Speaking for Notre Dame was not always easy, Starin said. 
In addition to heading the News and Information Department and responding to campus, local and nation­al media, he also regularly corresponded with alumni concerned about the direc­tion the University was tak­ing amidst the recent national culture wars -a delicate and often trying task. 
"That was the most wear­ing aspect of the job," Starin said of addressing fears that Notre Dame had "lost its way in terms of its Catholic character." 

"The great thing about Notre Dame is that everyone wants Notre Dame to be his or her Notre Dame -in other words, as he or she idealizes it," Starin said. "Sometimes you're dealing with very passionate and articulate people. It's always interesting, but sometimes frustrating." 
That same passion -and plenty of nationa) scrutiny -surfaced last winter when the University fired then­
football coach Tyrone Willingham, who had been Notre Dame's first black head coaching hire in any sport. Facing heated alle­gations of racism from various crit­ics, Notre Dame needed to explain its choice and protect its image which placed Starin at the center of the storm. 
"Definitely the most dif­ficult period 

"/think if/ accomplished anything internally, it was to make some University officials realize that with good preparation and forethought you can often use media to your advantage, and that it's wrong to consider reporters to always be antagonistic and potentially sinister. " 
Matt Storin associate vice president News and Information 
[of my time here] was the transition in the coaching area, but it was also the most interesting in some ways," Starin said. "It was a time when you felt you were in a bunker to some extent, but I learned a lot, and in looking b.ack on it, as with any challenge, you take a lot away from it." 
Other challenging times, such as the winter 2002 dis­appearance and death of freshman Chad Sharon and the spring 2003 resignation of then-Executive Vice President Father Timothy Scully, were balanced by chances to raise national awareness of Notre Dame's academic prestige, Starin said. Recent articles in the Chronicle of Higher · Education, New York Times and Chicago Tribune showed 
Notre Dame in a positive light, Starin said, particular­ly the favorable coverage given the University amidst the controversy surrounding the revoked visa of Muslim professor Tariq Ramadan in the fall of 2004. 
After making the transi­tion from working in jour­nalism to responding to journalists' requests, Storin said he generally had posi­tive exchanges with his for­mer counterparts. 
"With I'd say the exception of some of the coverage of the Willingham episode, I've had very good experiences 
w i t h reporters here, not least of which were frequently the reporters from The Observer," he s a i d "Generally they knew more about Notre Dame to start with, and of course, in all honesty, stu­d e n t reporters are invested somewhat in Notre Dame and they're anxious -to the extent that they can 
do so within their profes­sional responsibilities -to portray the school in a good light. 
"And sometimes that means telling hard truths, speaking truths to power, but nevertheless it's been a good experience." 
Switching to his News and Information position from the journalism field also allowed Starin to ease ten­sions between some admin­istrators and the media, he said. 
"I think if I accomplished anytping internally, it was to make some University offi­cials realize that with good preparation and forethought you can often use media to your advantage, and that it's wrong to consider reporters to always be antagonistic and potentially sinister," he said. 
Storin retired from the Globe in July 2001 after eight years as its editor and a total of 21 years at the newspaper, where he cov­ered news from Tokyo to Washington, D.C. He has also worked for U.S. News and World Report, · the Chicago Sun-Times, the New York Daily News, the Maine Times and his hometown paper, the Daily News of Springfield, Mass. Following his retirement, Starin took six months off before joining a program at Harvard's Joan Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy in the John F. Kennedy School of Government. He began working at Notre Dame in August 2002, and said Tuesday he planned to con­tinue teaching here for "a few years." 
"I like it, I really enjoy it," he said. "As long as my health is good and my long­suffering spouse continues to like South Bend ... it could be a good long time, we'll see. Really, for 41 years with a couple of short breaks I've had to spend most of every workday in an office ... I won't mind having a more flexible life, and I think it's time for that." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


Professor to lecture on star 
Special to The Observer 

Grant J. Mathews, director of the Center for Astrophysics at Notre Dame, will present a lec­ture titled "What and When was the Christmas Star?" at 7 p.m. Friday in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The Gospel of Matthew records a peculiar astronomical event that occurred at the birth of Christ. For centuries, astronomers and theologians have debated the nature of the Biblical light that led the Magi to the newborn Jesus. Some have suggested it was a nova or a supernova, others suggest some other transient stellar burst. 
Mathews will review the many astronomical postulates for the Christmas star and dis­cuss recent evidence that points toward likely answers as to the nature and time of appearance of this special event. He also will discuss if this recent evi­dence may shed new light on the Christmas story. 
The lecture is part of the Department of Physics' obser­vance of the World Year of Physics, a global celebration of . physics and its importance in our everyday lives. The obser­vance celebrates the 1 OOth anniversary of Albert Einstein's "miraculous year" in which he published three revolutionary papers on special relativity, the photoelectric effect and Brownian motion. 
********************************** 
c~irlhtfLi rd t£'C~/L1tf Be~ CtMccrtf~ 
/ ,..,_ ,......., .............. ..-r ...._./ 
Cttt!t;/J.: R£1f Rdistt/lt tt:rd!l ti& tVD 

eet£.1,"" (;,:;,,. d'"£-)1,,~-"~fCdy"" 
t·V~~-i~/ ZJet:·. a4fl!l /~i:frr (Jt~t/ttu /L lrfl:>t'-!/:1c 

This wonde1jid collection ofhumorous, poignant and revealing stories and anecdotes offers special insight into the universi!J that Father iHallC!J has served so faitlifu!Jy, and includes vignettes about the people who have made Notre Dame the place it is. 
•!• 

********************************** 



saturday december 10 
ll:OO AM -I:OO PM 
in the bookstore 574.6315757 

Wednesday, December 7, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
AUSTRIA 
Israeli institute pays tribute to Austrians
unch and Conversation For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame Thursday, December 8th 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch and study break at the Co-Mo. rTl Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. ~ TI·U: !!l't-.ND•NO *Lunch will be served* COMMITT".II: ON GAY AND LESBIAN .TUDKNT N•E:a•  
·CPl}g-ratulafloIJs jeanne Birdsall on winning the National Book Award for Young People's Literature for her book The Penderwicks. ....... ' THE PENDERWICKS A Sumnwr 'lllk uf Fu11r Sil!<'f.l, TU." llabl>i~;, a~d • V<ry ll!tfrwl~~g llo~ HAMMESOn sale NOTRE DAMENOW! BOOKSTORE IN THE ECK CENTER phone: (574)631-6316 • www.ndcatalog.10m JEANNE BIRDSALL  

85 people recognized for helping the Jews 
in the Holocaust 
Associated Press 
VIENNA -Israel's Yad Vashem institute paid tribute Tuesday to 85 Austrians who risked their lives to save their Jewish friends and neighbors during the llolocaust. 
Among those recognized l'or their courage in defying the Nazis were Hermine Hiss, who hid a Jewish woman in her Vienna home between 1942 and 1945, and Dan uta and Ewald Kleisinger who saved the lives of' several Jews by giving them sanctuary in their Warsaw home. 
Hiss was honored posthu­
mously  with  the  title  
"High teo us  Among  The  
Nations"  - joining  the  

Kleisingers and 82 other Austrians already so recog­nized. The Kloisingers were additionally given honorary memorial Israeli citizenship, an honor Danuta Kleisinger accepted from Israeli Ambassador Dan Ashbel on behalf of herself' and her late husband. 
Austrian President lleinz Fischer emphasized the sig· nificanee of' the event in a ceremony held at the Vienna Jewish Community building. llo linked it to thn long process that finally rflplaend decades of' denial wilh tho recognition eommonly hold today that Austrians shared responsibility for the llolocaust. 
"We have moved away from a one-sided theory of' being victims," he said, alluding to the long-held claim by Austrian ofTicialdom that the country was the first nation to fall to Adolf' llitler's Germany through anrwxation in 1938. 
Instead, said Fischer, Austrians have "learned to see things morn h01wstly and properly 1ind to arrive at the public acknowledgment that thorn worn victi rns and aggressors, aggressors and victims under tlw Austrians." 
Ashbel, alluding to Monday's suicide bombing in the Israeli town of' Netanya, condemned those exploiting "hate land I anti-Semitism to reach their goal of' creating a 'Jew-free' r(~gion and maybe even a "Jew-free world." 
The 85 Austrians are among the 20,757 non-Jews recog­nized as "Highteous Among the Nations" by the founda­tion. 

5 BEDROOM HOUSE AVAILABLE NOW 
Great Neighborhood, Prime Location, Close to Campus 105 Marquette Ave. South Bend, IN Just offAngela and US 3 I Due to extreme circumstances it is avail­able for immediate possession. This house has been leased to Notre Dame Students for over 30 years by the same owner, who is a local resident. Don't miss this rare opportunity Please call our office at 574-232-6964 (still available for next year!) 
Want to write for News? Calll-5323. 
page 10 The Observer·+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, December 7, 2005 
Fallen police officer mourned in New York 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -An estimated 
20,000 police officers, some from 
as far away as Hawaii and Japan, 
turned a Brooklyn neighborhood 
into an ocean of blue Tuesday in 
a tribute to a slain New York 
police officer. 

"It was simply his nature to . want to help others," Police 
Commissioner Raymond Kelly 
said of 35-year-oM Dillon 
Stewart. :1 : · 
Stewart, shot though the heart 
during a Nov. 28 traffic stop, was 
remembered as an extraordinary 
man who made an extraordinary decision to quit his accounting job and join the NYPD at age 30. 
"I feel truly blessed and hon­ored to have married such a wonderful man. His life was just begun," Stewart's widow Leslyn told friends, family and others who gathered at the cavernous 1 ,500-seat New Life Tabernacle Church. "I will always love him with my whole heart." 
The Stewarts' children, 6-year­old Alexis and 5-month-old Samantha, sat with friends. 
Kelly was joined by Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who hailed Stewart for his dedication to both family and job. 

Court leaning tolVard tnilitary 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON The Supreme Court appeared ready Tuesday to rule against colleges that want to limit military recruiting on campus to protest the Pentagon's policy on gays. 
New Chief Justice John Roberts and other court mem­bers signaled support for a law that says schools that accept federal money also have to accommodate military recruiters. The justices seemed concerned about hindering a Defense Department need to fill its ranks when the nation is at war. 
"There's the right in the Constitution to raise a military," Roberts said. 
Law school campuses have become the latest battleground over the "don't ask, don't tell" policy allowing gay men and women to serve in the military only if they keep their sexual orientation to themselves. 
A group of law schools and professors had sued the Pentagon, claiming their free­speech rights are being violated because they are forced to asso­ciate with military recruiters or promote their campus appear­ances. Many law schools forbid the participation of recruiters from public agencies and pri­vate companies that have dis­criminatory policies. 
E. Joshua Rosenkranz, the lawyer for the schools, told jus­tices: "There are two messages going on here and they are clashing. There is the military's message, which the schools are interpreting as 'Uncle Sam does not want you,' and there is the school's message which is 'we do not abet those who discrimi­nate. That is immoral."' 
Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said: "Your argument would allow schools to exclude any­body in a uniform from a cafete­ria." 
Justice Stephen Breyer said that many people disagree with government policies, but they are not allowed to get out of paying taxes or following laws because of that. 






Experienced Server 
'


App 
m 

211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
232~4445 

www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com 
Wednesday, December 7, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page II 
ROMANIA 
Rice secures ne-w rights for base 
German Chancellor claims U.S. admitted detention mistake 
Associated Press 
BUCIIAHEST -Secretary of Statn Condoleezza Hice tried Tuosday to allay European suspi­cions about U.S. practices in the pursuit of terrorist<;, even as she secured new rights for American usn of a military base suspncted to have housnd a secret CIA prison. 
She rnfused to say whether the base over served as a clandes­tine holding pen or interrogation cnnter for terror suspects, and she stepped carefully around questions about a German citi­znn who sued the CIA on Tuesday over his seizure and detention by U.S. authorities. 
She also would not address an ABC News rnport that prisoners were whisked away from the Mihail Kogalniceanu base in Hornania shortly before Hice arrived in the country. 
"I am not going to talk about wlwtlwr such activities take place," Hice said when asked about the Hornanian base. "To do so would clearly be to get into a rnalrn of discussion about sup­posed or purported intelligence activ.!ties and I simply won't do that. 
Homanian President Traian Basnscu insisted, as he has done rnpeatedly sincn the CIA prisons allegations surfaced in news reporl'> last month, that Romania never hosted such a site. 
Allegations that the United States violated human rights and European law by running clan­destine jails in Europe to interro­gate suspected terrorists have clouded a diplomatic trip to European capitals this week. 
Hice began her trip Monday with a lengthy defense of U.S. terrorism policies that she con­tended had saved European lives as well as American. 
Before traveling to Romania on Tuesday, she said in Berlin that it is important that "friends be able to talk about issues of concern." 
"It is also important, though, that any debate have a healthy respect for the challenge that we face when we face an enemy that operates from within our societies" and is intent on killing innocent civilians, she added. 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said the United States has admitted that Khaled al­Masri's detention was a mistake, but Hice would not say so out­right. 
U.S. ollicials said they cannot discuss the German's case in detail because it is in court. 
"I did say to the chancellor that when and if mistakes were made we will work very hard and as quickly as possible to rectify them," Hice said. 
As for secret prisons, suspicion fell on Romania's Mihail Kogalnieeanu Air Base near the Black Sea and Poland's Szymany Airport after Human Rights Watch said it had flight records indicating that aircraft with links to the CIA landed repeatedly at both facilities in 2001-2004. 

The Romanian base, which was heavily used by U.S. forces after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, was among several installations covered in a defense cooperation pact signed Tuesday by Rice and Foreign Minister Mihai Razvan Ungureanu. 
Officials opened the base to AP journalists last month, and the sprawling base appeared virtual­ly deserted. 
Romania's military and the Pentagon say U.S. forces, which at one point numbered about 3,500 at the base, were with­drawn in June 2003 and since ha~ returned only briefly for training exercises, most recently in September. 
Yet some officials acknowl­edged that parts of the installa­tion were ofT-limits to Homanian authorities, and the country's main intelligence service, SHI, has said it had no jurisdiction there. 
"There were some bases we put at the Americans' disposal. We can't know what happened there," former Prime Minister Adrian Nastase, who served 2001-2004 and now heads the Chamber of Deputies, said Tuesday. He added, however: "For us, it's clear there was no secret agreement" allowing covert U.S. activity. 
IRAQ 
Hussein vows not to return to next trial 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD Saddam Hussein sat stone-faced and silent as a woman accused his agents of beatings, tor­ture and sexual humiliation. But after hours of testimony and another two witnesses, the caged defendant who once dominated Iraq finally exploded in anger. 
Waving a finger and pounding his desk, Saddam told the judges to "go to hell" and vowed not to return to court Wednesday. 
Dressed again in a dark suit and white shirt and clutching a Quran, Saddam complained that he and the seven other defendants were tired and had been deprived of opportunities to shower, have a change of clothes, exercise or go for a smoke. 
"This is terrorism," he declared. 
Throughout the trial, which b.egan Oct. 19, Saddam has repeatedly staged confrontations with the court and attempted to take control of the proceed­ings with dramatic rhetori­cal flourishes. 
Saddam and the others are charged in the deaths of more than 140 Shiite Muslims in retaliation for 
an assassination attempt against him in the town of Dujail in 1982. Saddam accused Iran of ordering the attempt on his life. 
Five witnesses -two women and three men ­testified Tuesday in the fourth session of the trial, all of them hidden from the public view and with their voices disguised to protect their identities. 
The most compelling testi­mony came from the woman identified only as "Witness A," who was a 16-year-old girl at the time of the crack­down. Her voice breaking with emotion, she told the court of beatings and elec­tric shocks by the former president's agents. 
"I was forced to take off my clothes, and he raised my legs up and tied my hands. lie continued admin­istering electric shocks and whipping me and telling me to sp9ak," Witness A said of Wadah ai-Sheik, an Iraqi intelligence officer who died of cancer last month while in American custody. 
The woman, speaking from behind a beige cur­tain. broke down several times as she struggled to maintain her composure. "God is great. Oh, my Lord!" she said, moaning. 
''... !J'· ..... 



SCION tC Startmg at 

~ • .. 4f. _• • · ._;_.. ;on ~t:l' :--~-, 101.1 wwtomtv •t.t'!'n' in\'~1 JJ..IM=:'r. "'"""·~..•.,r-'J ·.,.q J•~o:nUht~lJ ~1':~: '"'s.<h..Y.~. t,-.114:~. I~ lff.ww~ 1111'4 -~>;:\~'~ ,.,,n:i'IN:t,"<:l. A.r.N¥i dft'¥t¥=· tH«:~'~'"' "("''-'-' ....... l,l:fl,;. h-~-\k:k. · ·• <1 --.. ;· t•-.~.;. .;-t," Ql ft\oYQttt W~>~<·' ;'wtw> .Jliv:l. ~·a 'l•l"fet'* ~ ~ '"'ff""·'"'''"''' <(.-.:fp•~•;t'' ~ '(iw¢1<1 M·'l<>t C..,.,or~::;»~ l'•>' m:.>!~ lllf;>~·cr:·~~·. ~~tH ~-ii64 -~C-~·~)i.)N l!·iKA. N; :->.-'. "tt.)<t-wm•r$..oAJ\P9ft'•--M'IflVI"r ilt(: /l;M'' ·, "'-*P*'I""·~*·'ffi<'J!~f"''.{»·C)tfhlot.pt<tm:)~i' 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, December 7, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

What makes a good Viewpoint? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHJEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
SCENE EDITOR: Rarna Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEf 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

This is the last edition of The Observer that will be published this calendar year. Therefore, despite the fact that there are several issues of significance that could (and should, and in the case of the Vatican's new Instruction, which merits rather more analysis than I can give it in one week's time, will) be drawing my attention, I have opted instead to set aside these troubles and pursue a little end-of-the-year reflection. 
After only a few weeks of reading The Observer, it is not dif­ficult to tell that every columnist in this paper has a slightly dif­ferent methodology when it comes to choosing topics. It is possible, however, to lump us into a couple of general cate­gories. 
There are the reactionary columnists, who get most of their material from watching CNN or parsing the opinions of others, and who try to ride the brief waves of anger or interest that sur­rounds a piece of breaking news. The value of this type of writing is measured by the number of people who begin to care about, or at least react to, the issue in question. However, the biggest prob­lem with this tactic is that the ultimate value of a columnist's words depends largely on factors beyond her control. It is easy to miss your mark while riding the waves of public opinion. 
At the polar opposite of this style lie the static columnists. They pick a single, narrow area, such as politics, ethics or 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 

liberal shock proclamations, and over the course of a year proceed to pound it to death. Static columnists, I think, view themselves more as preachers than any­thing, but from the point of view of most everyone else they are just really, really irritating. The hallmark of this style is a column that emerges from nowhere, and has almost nothing to due with either contemporary issues or the present state of campus, and indeed is useless to almost everyone. 
Behind each of these schools of thought lies a distinct perception of what an opinion column is supposed to be. Static columnists write foremost for themselves (or their ideologies}, to express their own views and moreover to sway people to them. Reactionary colum­nists write in the hopes of stirring up a hornet's nest of replies and thereby gain­ing some notori1~ty, or at least a sense of accomplishment. 
Unfortunately neither of these styles provides any real value to the column's readers, who, especially in an intellectu­ally and politically charged environment such as Notre Dame, cannot be herded like sheep. Indeed, both of these styles ultimately do a disservice to the commu­nity of readers and to the community of writers. 
If the columnist recognizes the flaws in these, the two most popular schools of thought, then she will focus less on pro­viding an opinion column for herself, and more on uncovering those actual servic­es that only she, through her words, is in a position to provide. For the columnist, above all els~, must serve her readers by giving them something that stark jour­nalism, however valuable, can never supply. 
There can be many faces to this serv­ice. Some of the most significant are the columnist's honesty (which is a great weapon, for many people do not know how to deal with it}, her perspective and her unique pool of human experiences, though all of these must be mitigated by the firm realization that the vast majori­ty of her opini.ons are, in fact, only of interest to her and to her bedfellows. This is a disappointing but unavoidable truth, and a sign of maturity as a writer to recognize it. 
Above all else, the columnist who understands these things realizes that she is in the privileged position of expressing reality, articulated and yet naked, to those who may have forgotten what it looks like, and thus has the dim­cult but critical job of saying not what she wishes to say, but rather that which must be said. Thus, the columnist who serves the reader is persuasive, but only insofar as the truth itself is persuasive, and is mocking, but only insofar as per­spective shows something that deserves being mocked and is emotional, but only insofar as experience shows that emo­tion is essential. 
As one professor once explained to me, discussion -honest, open, brutal, inti­mate, truthful and painful-is the origin of all change. It is also the seat of all empathy. It is a great honor, therefore, to be able to serve discussion for its own sake, and to lead you further into it. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of Notre Dame. More ofhis work can be found at www.tidewaterblues.com. He can be contacted at comments@tidewaterblues. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial comem, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe adminis~tion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse 
adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represenc the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chlef. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contatr information. 
Questions rt!garding Observer policies should be dirt!cted to Editor in ChiefClairt! Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
11re Obocr~<r (IJSPS 599 HOOOJ ;. publi~r«l Mond.y """"~ frid>.y e=pt during exam ~d ViQtion period$, A su~iption tl) 1'hc ~("¢!' i3-$100 (or" OJ1(: ac:adcmi<; yt:ar.$5,S.fc;~rooc~cr. 
Thc::O~~ i' p1,1~~~ I'OS'lW.ST1Ut OU South Oini"!; H.U ~od.~(:Qr.f«tiQ.~·~.q.~.: No"" p..,.,!N #~56-IIT/ll Th<O""""" l'wio<li<ol pooug< poid " Notr< 0.111< RO.Jio•77' 
"'" .dditiooal ""u""ollkc.. 
Ill<South Dining Hol! Non. Oont<, IN <jj)55~779 
The<>boo.nrio• mernb<toftlre-....1 l'no<J. All~ ......,. 
·······" 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Maintain clarity about academic freedom 
Tuesday's story about Fr. Jenkins' appointment of a special committee to examine the relationship of the principles of academic freedom generally accepted by American Universities to the special conditions associ­ated with the artistic expression of opinions at odds with the mission of a Catholic University provided most faculty with their first notice of the existence of that committee. 
A key issue raised by Bishop D'Arcy's letter to the South Bend Tribune on related topics last February is that of the distinction of academic freedom as it is generally understood by universities in the United States, and the religious freedom of institutions such as Notre Dame. The distinction is familiar, clear and long standing. 
The University will not be well served if the distinc­tion is blurred or ignored in the course of constructing local academic policy. Our peer institutions, which no longer include other Catholic Universities, will not be sparing in their critique of policy modifications designed to avoid controversy or to obey ecclesiastical authority at the expense of well-settled professional standards. 
Edward Manier professor Philosophy department Dec. 6 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
Kate Antonacci Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY Lisa Schultz Kate Gales 
'Sub \ t
Katelynn Rielly Dan Murphy "Yesterday, Dec. 7. 1941, a date which 
1)Lunnt a.Jetter
Viewpoint Tim Kaiser will live in infamy, the United States 
"No enterprise is more likely to succeed ofAmerica was suddenly and deliber­
than one concealed from the enemy until 
Alyssa Scene 

ately attacked by naval and air forces it is ripe for execution. " Brauweiler Brian Doxtader ofthe Empire ofJapan." 
to the Editor at 
Niccolo Machiavelli Franklin D. Roosevelt 
Laura Sonn Illustrator 

Italian political philosopher 
Graphics MegDwyer. 

former U.S. president 
;WWW.ndsmcobserv~r.c~m I
Kelly MacDonald 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, Decemb,er 7, 2005 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Revisiting 'deep-rooted tendencies' 
Christian lloellfll I"Ciose roading elieits positive rnspons11," 1>111~. 51 has some problems with my interpre­tation of' thn Vatiean's rneent Instruction on homosexual priosts. lie daims that I did mit read the doeument caro­l'ully and that! am guidnd by emotion rather than "theo­logical fact," which is, needlnss to say, a eatngory with · which lmn unf'amiliar. At thn risk of bning argumnnta­tivn, I must say that it is Christian who seems not to have fllad llw dor.unwnt dosnly, and I only bother to say this benwsn I think llw intnrprntation of what is meant by l!onw by "dePp-rootPd homosexual tendencies" is tho focal point of' what this <lonmwnt actually do1~s. 
I gavn, in my last IPLter, an interpretation of the phrase root<!d in 1/w Cat<•chism of the Catholi<~ Churrh and how, to my rnad­reduce homosexuality to a matter of genital activity onlyI; and thus the indination itself must be seen as intrinsically disordered." A close reading of this seems to allirm that "inclination" and "tendency" can be read as synonymous terms; this is partieularly evident due to the placement of the note in tho "tondnncy" scetion of the document. According to the above line, pnople who have thnso tendencies or inclinations are definnd as a "homo­sexual person." llere is the only place where I see myself making any logical jump, but to me it follows: a homo­sexual person is someone who I would define -and who would usually define him or herself-as having a homosexual orientation. By banning those who have 
these tendcndns, the Vatican is banning 
any and all homosexuals. 
ing. tlw phrasn "<lm!p-rootnd homo­Fmther, if the intMpretation that
.<.,'o long as Ithe

snxual tnndmwiPs," wlwn used tlwrn, HoefTel wants to give is correct, why have has usually hnnn intnrprnt.nd to refer Catechism/ seems to a doeunwnl singling out homosexuals at to what is commonly called a "homo­say what it seems to all'? After all, tho nend to livn eolibately, snxual orillntation:" a stable. <~onsis­be wnll-inlegrated emotionally and all'ec­
say. the issues go far, 

tnnl attraction to persons of the sanw tively and not support the undefined "gay sex. .far deeper than a culture" arn things that would be Thus we get thl' important Catholic mere ban. requin"ld of any priest. Why single out 
distinction hPtwmm ads and orienta­Lion, though the Vatican still snmns unwilling to usP tlw word. f'or it would imply a natural. undwsnn state that one cannot dmnge -thus casting a ratlwr disparaging vinw on thn Churrh's argunwnts against homosexual aets basnd upon nat ural law. And since lloefl'el allngns that one dis­agrPning with this non-dogmatic. non-infallibln tmu~hing is, nonl'tltnlnss, "lwrntical." I would like to go dnnper into that issue hut. alas, dun to sp<u~n constraints I cannot. Thus, I would liko to oll'or what I believe to be the dear moaning of' "denp-snated homosnxual tnndendes" as dl'fiiiEld within tlw tnxt of' t.he Instruction ilsnlf', particu­larly in light of extnnsivn footnote No. H. 
Footnoting tlw sndion dnaling with nxactly what "dnE!p-rootnd homosnxual tnndencies" arc, the doeumnnt !'ill's tlw following from tlw narlier magistorial document "llomosnxualitatis probltmm" ~"Although the particu­lar inclination of thn homosnxual person is not a sin, it is a morn or IPss strong tendency ordered to an intrinsic moral nvil lnamnly. having sexual intnrcourse with a per­son of tlw sanw snx -rwtP the Vatican's insistence to 
In my f'our years -well. more like three and thron­quartnrs -at thn Univnrsity of Notre Dame, I have been part of many a liasm (see: Hnsl.ife Filn Cabinet "P"). Bull havn nevnr bnen part of a ticket debade like the onn we arn about to eneountnr at 6 p.m. this evening. 
Apparnntly, thn Finsta Bowl has decided that out of the 73,000 seats in Sun Devil Stadium, there will only be 15,000 tickets allotted to Notre Dame studenl<>, alumni, etc. 
From those 15,000 tickets, the University is only enter­ing 2,500 into the student lottery, which allocates each student who has a winning lottery number two tickets. So for all of you who also grew up watching breakfast-time PBS programming, this letter is brought to you by the number 1,250. · 
t\ftnr a quick comparison between our featured num­ber and the Notre Dame student body, I have one response, "Underclasspeople (I'm trying to stick to that policy of 'Viewpoint political correctness'), please refrain from picking up lottery numbers today." 
Let me brnak it down for you a little bit. 
homosexuals'? Further, thorn are only 
three categories of homosexual that exist 
in this dowmnnt: thosP who practice, thoso with "deep-rootnd tendnndes" and those with a transitory tendency. Thn well-adjustPd celibate with a pmmannnl homosexual ori£mtation that Iloell'el describns would lit into nonn of tlwsn ealngories as he describes them. Whern is this person thus addressed in Catholic teaching, sinee·even the Catechism speaks only of acts and those with "deep-rootnd tendencies'?" Why do they single out those with "transitory lnndeneies" as being admissibln to tho seminary, but not the man lloefl'el describes'? It seems to me that Occam's Razor would apply here: the simplnst answer to all these ques­tions is that the celibate homosoxual who lloniTel deseribP-s and allirms is ineludod in this document under "those with deep-rooted homosexual tendencies" and is therefore banned from ordination. 
Let me be dear: I do not writn this simply to establish that I am right on this. Nor am I happy about the conclu­sions I come to. If anyone can give me a convincing analysis of and from the text itsnlf that demonstrates my 
Seniority rules 
Juniors, do you remember coming into Notre Dame with a new head coach and going 8-0 only to drop a 14-6 loss to Boston College (of all teams), gel CHUSHED by Southern Cal in the final game and then embarrass our­selves against N.C. State in the Gator Bowl? No. 
Sophomores, do you remember winning a thriller in overtime against Washington Statn only to be blown out by Michigan (shutout), USC and Florida State (shutout) by a combined score of 115-14? No. Not to mention going 5­7 with losses to B.C., Purdue, Syracuse and almost ending our winning streak over Navy. 
Do you even know what Syracuse's record is this year? Well, let's just say Oregon's win over Division 1-AA Montana probably helps their strength of schedule more than our win over Syracuse this year. 
Finally, Dear Freshpeople (holding onto that "PC" still), you owe us one. It is we seniors who have taught you the ropes so that you know your way to Clover Ridge, seeing as you have no recollection of the truly good times in Thrtle Creek. It is we who have hosted and hoisted you, depending on whether it was your turn for a Diet-Cherry­error in this regard, I would be grateful. But so long as it seems to say what it seems to say, the issuns go far. far deeper than a more ban. My letter of Nov. :~0. I hope. demonstrates how this is so, as dons the truly nxenllent and moving letter published today by E.S. Emmn L''Vatiean document carries dire consequences," Dee. 51 and the reJlections oll'nrnd by Matt Hamilton I"Brnaking the brnad'! 'Gay'! Fine by Me' shirts at Mass," De<~. 51. Fortunately, many bishops of' tho United Statns snnm to be praetkally ignoring what the doeumnnl aetually seems to say, making it dnar that all'eetively maturn homosexual men arn eligibln still f'or ordination in thnir dioceses (sadly, our own Bishop .John ll'Ar<~y is not among their numbnr-see John Allnn's "Word from Home" last Friday on nateath.org). This approar.h is, however, also problematic. By i~noring what tlw Instruction is r<1ally doing, and prnlnnding-as llonll'nl assnrts but does not def<md-that it is only a ban on those homosnxuals who !'.annot live e<~libat<liy or arn somehow obsessnd with their orientation, tlwy do a dis­snrvicc to thn homosnxual membnrs ol' thnir llocks. Thny do a dissnrvice by letting the Vatican gnt. away with it. 
If thn bishops and supnriors of rnligious ordnrs arn truly willing to admit that an outright and blanknt ban on homos<~xtmls in the ordainnd ministry is wrong, tlwn I sincerely wish tlwy would haw~ the moral whm·Pwithal to stand up and call the Vatican on tlw carpet f'or what it has done-it has unjustly banned homosnxual priests, and in my dioeesn. I will not put that ban into nl1iw.t. An unjust law is no law at all. This is what is going to practi­cally oceur I suspect, but I also bnlievn that, in tlw words of Hiehard John Nnuhaus (with whom I disagn1n on praetieally nvnrything <~ls&l), "Thosn who try to makn I this I argument should have the honesty to admit that they are not intnrpreting but rejeeting tlw directives of Homn." In doing so, homosnxual Catholics would finally see real diseussion going on about their plight in tlw Church at the highest lovnls, not simply rnstalnmnnts of' the same old mndemnations. And real discussion. espe­eially in this mattnr, <:an only benefit all. 
Andy Buechel graduate student 
oll~campus 
Dec. 5 

Vanilla-Dr.-Popper-Stand, in our homos, oven if we had to kick one gendnr out at midnight, *wink*. 
Yet, it is also we snniors who will not bn able to wakh Mr. Weis (yes, you should call him Mister, as well, from that atroeiously golden section) ever again. I would prob­ably lnt Mark May be the godfather to my lirst child f'or one more year of Wois' football, seeing as oven you jun­iors have a legitimate shot at the title next ynar. 
So, juniors, sophomores, and freshmen (yah ... I got tired of it), save your money for a trip to the Hose, Orange or Sugar Bowl and let us seniors take eare of the fo'iesta. So since the University, who will be sening about as many donations from the Class of 2006 after this farce as from the re-gilded-Dome-loving Class of 2005, can't seem to give us priority, we're calling on you, underclassmen, to give us seniority. 
Uel Pitts III senior off-campus Dec. 6 
,,; I
j, . ' 

BoWl ticket allotment unfair 
On behalf of the Notre Dame student body, I would like and that image's revenue-generating power, than they results of their slim lottery chances. to tender my heartiest thanks are with any or all of the stu­I would like also to apologize for thosn of us who to the administration for your dents. It's not as if those stu­feared that the University's decision to re-gild the
It is perfectly obvious that Notre Dame 
incrmlibly generous allocation dents have invested their Dome during the last year's graduation was made of 1,250 ticknt winn£lrs for continues to honor its well-documented, hearts and souls in support­without any regard for last year's senior dass. It is our H,OOO mmnbnrs. Not only ing the football team, and the perfectly obvious that Notre Dame continues to honor
though utterly pragmatic commitment 
dons this movP show your various endeavors of the its well-documented, though utterly pragrnatie eorn­
to its undergraduates. Rest assured 
continuing commitment to put University. As we all know, mitment to its undergraduates. Best assured that undnrgraduat(l students lirst that when I am gainfully employed the the University has absolutely when I am gainfully employed the University will not in the priorities of the University will not have to reserve any no need for the students. All have to reserve any of its donation-assumed tieket University, but it silnnces the University needs is the packages for mn.
o.fits donation-assumed 

detraetors who daim that you loyalty of various corpora­do not concern yoursPlves ticket packages .for me. tions and foundations. I am with tlw welfarn of thfl aver-sure that none of those con-Jamie Holland age studnnt. tributors will be receiving senior Far bn it from me to question leaders who are obvious­generous ticket packages at the samn time that many St. Edward's Hall ly morn eonePrnod with the image of the Univnrsity, of our lady,s seniors will be desperately awaiting the Dec. 6 
TV SHOW REVIEW 

'Grey's Anatotny' building m.otnentum. in first season 
"Intimacy is a four-syllable word for,By MARY SQUILLACE 
'here's my heart and soul, please
Scene Critic 

grind them into hamburger, and 
enjoy." 

The juxtaposition of red high heels But it's more than Grey's clever 
against the sterile backdrop of a hos­words of wisdom that have captivated 
pital room during the opening credits so many viewers. The characters act 
tells it all. From the first moments of as a virtual iron lung for the show, 
the show's unconventional title preserving its vibrancy with the way 
sequence, it is clear "Grey's Anatomy" in which they complement and collide 
isn't just another high-adrenaline with each other. 

doctor drama. So far, the cast has proven itself 
Sure, Seattle Grace Hospital -worthy of embodying the quirky and 
employer of surgical intern Meredith complex staff of Seattle Grace. 
Grey (Ellen Pompeo) -provides its Particularly notable performances 
staff with their have been given by 
share of heart­Sandra Oh (who 
pounding, race­Grey's Anatomy starred in last 
against the time year's "Sideways") 
type challenges. as the hilarious 
But it also is the Cristina and T.R. 
perfect ~emt'~.tor' Knight as the bum­
the lust and love bling, but 
triangles that . When: Sundays, 10 p.m. adorable, George 
audiences love to Channel: ABC O'Malley. 
watch. Starring: Ellen Pompeo, Sandra Oh, Pompeo also 
When the show Patrick Dempsey, and T.R. Knight holds her own as 
(10· p.m. the protagonist 
Sundays) first who suffers under 
aired last March, viewers watched as the weight of her emotions but des­
Grey scrubbed in on her first surger­perately tries to fulfill her profession­
ies_, struggled to adjust to new room­al aspirations. 

mates and succumbed to an illicit Another defining feature on "Grey's 
romance with Dr. Derek Shepard Anatomy" is its soundtrack. The ultra­
(Patrick Dempsey). dramatic compositions created out of 
At the end of the season, her life heart-monitor beeps and shouts for 
became infinitely more complicated cc's of saline heard on shows like 
when Shepard's wife, Addison (Kate "E.R." are used sparingly. Instead, 
Walsh), showed up. Now, alongside episodes feature salient musical selec­
her peers and superiors, she contin­tions to accompany the action in 
ues to try to survive her complicated order to heighten the show's emotion-
personal life al effects. 
while meeting Additionally, the 
the strenuous The show's witty dialogue, performers fea­
demands of the tured on the_ show
constant stream ofzany

hospital. are hip independ­
patients and a number of

Surprisingly, ent artists. The even set among humiliating (but humorous) official soundtrack illness and death, features the likes
situations keep rcrey's

hilarity often of the Postal
Anatomy7 from plummeting

ensues. The Service, Mike show's witty dia­into the potentially depressing Doughty and Ben logue, constant Lee.
world ofmedical Tv. 

stream of zany "Grey's Anatomy" 
patients and a is like a steady, 
number of humiliating (but humorous) hour-long morphine drip -effectively 
situations keep the show from plum­numbing the painful transition into a 
meting into the potentially depressing week of academics. 

world of medical TV. Currently the program is midway 
Likewise, "Grey's Anatomy" satisfies through its second season, but 
by feeding the audience's appetite for prospective viewers, fear not. The 
scandal with a steady. diet of one­storylines are relatively easy to pick 
night stands, sexual tension and even up on and the show's official Web site 
a mysterious case of syphilis that (http ://abc.go .comlprimetime/greysana 
strikes Seattle Grace. tomy/) features a synopsis of every 
The show also has to offer its ever­episode up to the present. The syn­
popular (and quotable) voiceover wis­opses are well worth checking out as 
dom, which assigns each episode a a valuable supplement to the show 
theme that subtly unfolds across the itself. 

characters' various storylines. The As one of the best shows on televi­
brief monologues that air over the sion, "Grey's Anatomy" comes highly 
opening and closing of the show are recommended. 
both witty and salient. Here, the view­

er has the opportunity to identify with Contact Mary Squillace at 
Dr. Shepard (Patrick Dempsey), left, and Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo) talk about Grey and some of her sentiments -msquilla@nd.edu their personal and professional lives in ABC's latest hit "Grey's Anatomy." 

'GREY'S ANATOMY' ON CAMPUS 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
A show like "Grey's Anatomy," which falls squarely into the medical television mold, would initially seem to have little to offer to the genre. It's not as ground­breaking as "E.R.," as melodramatic as "General Hospital," as ironic as "Scrubs" or as topical as "M*A*S*H*." 
But "Grey's Anatomy" has become a surprise hit and a popular and critical success. 
Positive word-of-mouth, coupled with the show's impressive consistency and talented cast, have turned "Grey's Anatomy" into a bonafide smash hit, especially here at Notre Dame. 
"I never miss an episode," said Anna Rodriguez, a junior PLS major. "If I can't be home to watch it, I make sure my roommate tapes it for me." 
What is it about "Grey's Anatomy" that sets it apart from similarly themed med­ical shows? 
"You have those other medical shows, like 'E.R.' and 'Scrubs,"' said Caitlin Hildebrand, a freshman pre-professional studies major. "But 'E.R.' is really seri­ous and 'Scrubs' is really funny. 'Grey's Anatomy' finds a happy medium." 
Unlike shows like the long-running series "General Hospital" and "E.R.," "Grey's Anatomy" depends on its solid cast and charismatic characters. Though Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo) is nomi­nally the show's star, the intertwining storylines and ensemble cast theatrics contribute a great deal to the program's popularity. Like many great television shows, "Grey's Anatomy" relies heavily on its strong characterizations. The show boasts a wealth of talent that includes Sandra Oh ("Sideways"), Ellen Pompeo ("Law and Order") and Isaiah Washington ("Exit Wounds"), all of whom have substantial acting chops and experience. 
"The cast has a very good chemistry," Rodriguez said. "There are a variety of personalities, and I think most people could relate to at least one of them.'' 
Additionally, "Grey's Anatomy" fea­tures a genu-ine breakout actor in Patrick Dempsey, whose heartthrob good-looks and status as a rising star has become one of the show's major draws. 
The show features solid screenwriting, which balances seriousness and comedy, and also makes the lives of the charac­ters intertwine with the medical cases presented. 
"The medical cases are a metaphor for the plot," Rodriguez said. "I like how they relate so well to what's going on with the characters." 
These medical cases, while sometimes bizarre, are surprisingly accurate, espe­cially when compared to the hyperbolic drama of "E.R." 
"Obviously, it's not completely accu­rate," Hildebrand said. "Every episode has to have some dramatic medical case to appeal to audiences and get people to watch, but they do a good job of present­ing the medicine aspect of the show. I think they do a better job than a lot of other doctor shows out there." ..,,. 
Whether or not "Grey's Anatomy" is capable of maintaining the momentum and popularity it has garnered thus far remains to be seen, but so long as the cast and writers continue their high level of excellence, the show should remain a Sunday night cornerstone. If anything, "Grey's Anatomy" should con­tinue to rise in popularity as its reputa­tion increases. 
"I think word gets around when there's a good show," says Hildebrand. "'Grey's Anatomy' is really good and will proba­bly get more popular as more people find out about it." 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE 

page 15 

.Characters 
Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo)­When Grey enters her first year at Seattle Grace, she is known as the daughter of renowned surgeon Ellis Grey, author of the renowned ~fictional) medical text "Grey's Anatomy. Before long, becomes romantically

Involved with Dr. Shepard,
who breaKs her heart. Her slneertty and empathy allow her to 
..
make connections with her patients. 

Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh) ­Cristina Is bold, commitment-phobicand unapologetic, which has recentlycomplicated her romance 
with Dr. Burke. The wittycracks that come from her mouth, even at the bedside of her patients, are flawlesslyentertaining. lzzie Stevens (Katherine Heigl) ­lzzie hails from humble, sman-town beginnings, and managed to pay her 
way through medical scliool by modelinglingerie. At the hos{>italshe is extremely dnven, 
but encounters some distractions In the form of Alex,1 .\ her quasi-boyfriend.
\ 
' <
. . ·\ ·. ;~/~\ 
t ~~i,··''; 
~-<:, "*,· . ' _,.
: ·. '.'' i''... 
' .... _.;.,:;/ ~­

Alex Karev (Justin Chambers) ­The other Interns were Initially slow to warm to Alex and his arrogant front. He is the resident playboy of the group, which has recently complicatedhis relationship with lzzie. While he usually means well, lie constantly gets himself into trouble in and out of the hospital. 
George 0 Malley (T.R. Knight)­George is both awkward and 
endearing. He manages 
... 
to perform well in tfle hospital, but suffers under the weight of his silent crush on 
Meredith. 

Derek Shepard (Patrick Dempsey) ­known to fans as "Dr. McDreamy,' Dr. Shepard, the hotshot doctor from NYC, clearly clinches the roll as the show's heartthrob. Formerly involved with Meredith, Shepard is now attempting to . make amends ·· with his estranged wife. 

I 
DOCUMENTING THE MEDICAL SHOW 
By MOLLY GRIFFfN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
"(;n~y·s Anatomy" is part of a long tra­dition of' mndieal tnl!wision dramas and comodins. Tho human drama of' lif'n in hospitals is appnaling to both networks and vinwnrs aliko. The shows vary in how rnalistieally thny portray medical lifn -as wnll as in thoir foeus on humor or drama -but thnir huge popularity rnvnals how llw intnnsc and emotional livns of dodors arn grnal li1dder for tele­vision. 
Somn shows, while sol in hospitals, focus vnry litlln on ;u:tual medieinn. One long-running 11xampln is thn soap opera "(;mwral llospital." whieh is tndmieally about dodors. but in which tlwir exter­nal dramas arn much more central. 
Mndieitw often seems likn a denply sl~rious spneialty, but some shows man­ago to show the humorous side of this solnmn profession. A elassie example is "M"A"S"II." whieh managed not only to lind humor in medieinn but also in war. 
Tlw snrins focusnd on a group of nurs­
' ns and surgeons who were part of the Modica) Army Surgical llospilal• and in llw m idsl of ·thn ·i'tunmn Con lliet. Thny usnd humor and pranks to eopn with tho dillkulties and lragndies that surround­nd thnm. "M"A"S"II," which ran from 1972 to 19~G. actually lastnd longer than tho Kornan Conflict-whieh lastnd from I1J!'i0 to 11J!'i] -that inspired it. A morn rncnnl show that combines humor and nwdidne is "Scrubs," whil:h foeuses on a group of interns at the Sacred llnart llospital. Zaek Braff plays Dr. ".I. I>." Dorian, and the show li11lows his introduction to life as a doctor through a humorous. and sometimes slapstick mamwr. Most medical series usually fall to dark humor, if' they show any at all, bncausn of the snriousness of tlw subject they dnal with. "Scrubs" uniqtwly approadws medicine with a 
sense of levity, and this separates it from the pack of shows about doctors. 
"M*A*S*H" and "Scrubs" are the exception rather than the rule when it comes to mcdieal shows. Most programs about medicine focus on the natural drama that hospitals contain, and many of them also foeus on the relationships that various hospital staff members have with one another. 
"St. Elsnwhere" was set in a decaying urban hospital, and it was one of tho first medical shows to reveal the grittier side of medicine and the imperfect natures of many doctors. It contained its share of controversial moments -it was the first networks show to feature an AIDS patient, it showed a doctor's naked back­side long before "NYPD Blue" made it "de rigueur" and five main characters died unexpectedly during the show's 1983-1988 run. The show established the realistic style, interlocking stories and conscious effort to break traditions that would become the staple of most medical dramas. 
The David E. Kelly drama "Chicago I lope" ran from 1994 to 2000 on CBS. The show focused on surgeon Dr. Jefl'ery Geiger and his surgical colleagues, and it presented their personal and profe8sion­al problems. The show suffered from cast .and producer rcshuffiing, as well as competition from another medical drama-"EH." The pilot episode of "Chicago Hope" 'debuted the day before "EH," and for a brief time the two shows were in a competing time slot before "Chieago !lope" was moved. 
NBC's "EH" is the most famous medical show in recent memory. It was created by Michael Criehton, best known for nov­els like "Jurassic Park," and produced by John Wells, who also worked on "The West Wing." Each episode follows a day in a Chicago-area emergency room, and reveals the lifo-and-death decisions they must make in the hospital and in their own livos. Tho show, which started in 1994 and is still on over a decade later (eons in television time) is known for its rotating cast. It made actors like George Clooney, Noah Wyle and Anthony Edwards famous, and has ineluded William II. Macy, Mare Winningham and "M"A"S"II" alumnus Alan Aida. The cur­rent cast of doctors ineludes Mekhi Phifer ("8 Mile"), Parminder K. Nagra ("Bend It Like Beckham") and Shane West ("A Walk to Remember"). 
Two recent medical shows, "House" and "Grey's Anatomy" seek to balance the tragic and comic elements in medi­cine, rather than focusing almost oxdu­sively on humor or on reality. 
Fox's "House" follows the adventures of Dr. House, played by Hugh Laurie, who has almost no bedside manner to speak of and suffers from his own con­stant pain. While his antisocial tenden­cies make him diilicult to deal with, his extensive ability to diagnose diseases makes him respected. The cases he solves are often bizarre and sometimes comieal, but the show presents the noto­riously tricky diagnostic side of medicine as an integral part of saving lives. 
"Grey's Anatomy" combines the humor and pathos of medicine in a Seattle hos­pital. The show combines personal drama, professional competitiveness and unusual medical cases while trying to balance the humor and tragedy. 
The world of hospitals is natural fod­der for television. Medicine deals with the balance between life and death, and hospital cases can run the gamut from tragic to humorous. Doctors, at least on TV, usually have intense personalities and must balance life with their consum­ing careers. Medical shows have been a_ part of television since its beginnings, and new shows will continue to find ways to express this difficult and respected profession with unique twists. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

"Grey's Anatomy," the latest In a long line of television medical dramas, is anchored by a veteran ensemble cast. Strong characterization and solid writing have made the show a genuine hit. It airs on ABC on Sunday evenings. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, December 7, 2005 
LEGENDS SPOTLIGHT 
Crowe's 2000 classic showing at Legends 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistant Scene Editor 
Cameron Crowe is a director of modest pleasures. His filmography -full of low­key melodramas ("Jerry Maguire,"
.. 
"Singles") and coming-of-age stories (the 1988 teen classic "Say Anything") -has established him as one of Hollywood's most acute and upbeat storytellers. 
"Almost Famous" (2000) may be his best, or at least more archetypal, film, an intensely personal low-key coming-of­ty. The bizarre love triangle that becomes one of the film's key themes is based loosely on Billy Wilder's "The Apartment," demonstrating Crowe's clear indebtedness to past filmmakers (Wilder and Capra chief among them). At once a road movie, a music movie and a sweetly sincere com­ing-of-age movie, Crowe balances these themes through a witty and memorable screenplay and slick, smart directing. 
"Almost Famous" is the writer/director's most autobiographical film, as he was a real-life 15 year-old journalist for Rolling Stone in the 1970's. As such, it wears age melodrama Almost Famous ·itself on its sleeve, about a teenager 
with most of drawn into the Crowe's typical seedy world of touches (great 1970's rock and soundtrack and roll. cast, simple, effec­The film follows What: Brew andView tive filmmaking 15 year-old William Where: Legends technique) perme­Miller (Patrick When: Thursday, midnight ating throughout. 

Fugit) as he follows the fictional rock band Stillwater as a Rolling Stone journal­ist in 1973, Despite the apprehension of his mother Elaine (Frances McDormand), who at one point claims "rock stars have kidnapped -my son," William falls under the spell of guitarist Russell Hammond (Billy Crudup) and groupie Penny Lane (Kate Hudson). Along the way, he witness­es the band collapse, relationships col­lapse and his own own life start to fall into shambles. That William emerges from the chaos still a good kid is a minor miracle unto itself, but Crowe's well-honed insight lends the entire plot a surprising credibili-
And though 
Stillwater is a fic­tional band (albeit one that performs orig­inal songs penned by the rock band Heart), the rock landscape they traverse is littered with real-life musical references and allusions, including .Led Zeppelin (after whom Stillwater was allegedly based), David Bowie and Humble Pie. 
If nothing else, the soundtrack is unfor­gettable, featuring music by The Who, Simon and Garfunkel, Jimi Hendrix and, in one indelible scene, Elton John. 
As is to be expected from the director who coaxed star-making from great actors like John Cusack and Renee Zellweger, Cameron Crowe gets strong performances throughout "Almost Famous." Patrick Fugit is appropriately starry-eyed as the naive young journalist William, Frances McDormand is commanding as ever as William's overbearing but loving mother, Kate Hudson is bewitchingly charming as the enigmatic groupie Penny Lane, Billy Crudup is boldly charismatic as the rock star Russell and Philip Seymour Hoffman turns in one of the film's most memorable performances as gonzo rock journalist Lester Bangs. 
In a world in which "teen-movie" means raunchy fare like "American Pie" and "Old School," a sweetly sentimental picture like "Almost Famous" is a rarity. At once nos­talgic and insightful, the film achieved all its goals and -then some. Cameron Crowe has made some pretty bad movies over the years ("Vanilla Sky," anyone?), "Almost Famous" solidifies his talents as a good filmmaker and an observant com­mentator on what it means to be 15. 
"Almost Famous" will be shown on Thursday as part of Legends' "Brew and View" series. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Latest 'Pride and Prejudice' adaptation is a winner 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 
Jane Austen's novel "Pride and Prejudice opens with the line, "It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good for­
-tune, must be in want of a wife." The 2005 film adaptation of the book keeps this central focus on marriage, but it adds a fantastic cast, gorgeous scenery and costumes and an emotional heart that will satisfy old fans and win over new ones. Like many of Jane Austen's novels, .... "Pride and 
off on the right foot with his friend, Mr. Darcy (Matthew MacFadyen). They're clearly meant for each other, but life throws a number of complications into the mix before they're allowed to find happiness. ­
Elizabeth meets a dashing soldier, Lt. Wickham (Rupert Friend), and is pur­sued by a dull reverend, William Collins (Tom Hollander), who is a con­venient match for the family since he is the one who will eventually inherit the Bennet estate. The love lives of all the Bennet sisters grow complicated and they find themselves with broken hearts and wounded pride, but they 
end up with happi-
Prejudice" deals ness.
Pride and Prejudice

with the business The costumes of marriage and 
and scenery in the trials of love. "Pride and The five Bennet Prejudice" give it a sisters -the lovely sense of rustic 
Director: Joe Wright 

Jane (Rosamund English beauty.
Writer: Deborah Moggach 

Pike), the stu­The producers
Starring: Keira Knightley, Matthew 

dious Mary decided to set the 
MacFadyen and Donald Sutherland 

(Talulah Riley), movie in the 18th 
the clever Elizabeth (Keira Knightly), the immature Kitty (Carey Mulligan) and the wild Lydia (Jena Malone) -are the heart of the novel. 
Mrs. Bennet (Brenda Blethyn) works constantly to make advantageous mar­riages for her daughters, but h·er efforts increase when the family learns 
·that their property will be inherited by a distant cousin -not by someone with­in their immediate family. The arrival of Mr. Bingley (Simon Woods), a wealthy bachelor who moves into a nearby country estate, begins the always rocky road to love and marriage that exists in Austen's books. 
Mr. Bingley and Jane mutually fall for one another, but Elizabeth doesn't get 
century, which is 
when the books is set, rather than in the 19th century when it was published. This gives the film a less stiff and formal feel, which allows the film to take on looser and slightly more modern airs. Several scenes in the film are gorgeously cos­tumed and well-shot, particularly the country dan·ce sequence where Elizabeth meets Mr. Darcy. 
The best thing about the film is the great work done by the ensemble. cast. Knightly proves that she is more than just a pretty face with her lively and engaging Elizabeth, and she arid MacFadyen's Mr. Darcy have a dynamic and believable relationship onscreen. The whole Bennet family is engaging, "Bridget Jones' Diary" have adapted the plot but put a more modern twist on the book. 

This version of "Pride and Prejudice," while not the chapter-by-chapter adap­tation of the BBC miniseries version of the book, is a beautiful, well.acted and moving film. The scenery and costumes and the great ensemble cast should appeal to Jane Austen aficionados and neophytes alike. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
and the relationship between Blethyn's emotional mother hen and her laconic husband, Mr. Bennet (Donald Sutherland), is particularly amusing. Even small characters like the dull but forceful Rev. Collins or Judi Deneb's aggressive portrayal of a society matron add great depth and entertain­ment value to 'the movie. 
Surprisingly, this is only the second big-screen adaptation of "Pride and Prejudice." The first was a 1940 release starring Greer Garson and Lawrence Olivier. Other films, such as 
Wednesday, December 7, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Don't forget about MOVIES in the BROWNING CINEMA 
Caii631-FILM for a recorded list of this week's showings! 
GET IN THE HOLIDAY SPIRIT 


page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, December 7, 2005 
NBA 

Nowitzki's double-double too much for Pacers 
Bryant regains shooting form, hits 14-of-24 as Lakers beat up on the Bucks 
Associated Press 12 1/2 minutes to lead the two teams that in no way will 
Washington Wizards over the be mistaken for defensive pow­
INDIANAPOLIS Dirk Toronto Raptors. ers. Uncontested jumpers and Nowitzki had 31 points and 11 Hayes didn't score in the clean drives to the basket were rebounds and the Dallas Wizards' loss to Milwaukee on the order of the day, with the Mavericks pulled away in the Friday, and he had gone 7 -for-Wizards shooting 62 percent in closing minutes for a victory 24 from the field in his last five the first quarter and the Qver the Indiana Pacers. games, but he opened the game Raptors hitting 50 percent. 
The Pacers, playing their first with three jumpers and made game at home after a five-game two more in the extra period. LA Lakers 111., Milwaukee 92 trip out west, cut a 14-point He finished 8-for-15 with a sea­MILWAUKEE -Kobe Bryant Dallas lead to 7 5-71 with under son-high eight rebounds and scored 33 points to lift the Los 4 minutes remaining. made two key defensive plays in Angeles Lakers to their ninth 
But Adrian Griffin, Nowitzki overtime, including a steal with straight win over the and Marquis Daniels hit consec­37 seconds remaining when the Milwaukee Bucks, on Tuesday utive baskets for the Mavericks, Raptors were trying to set up a night. and after a basket by Indiana's game-tying shot. Lamar Odom added 24 points, Ron Artest, Nowitzki put the Arenas went 13-for-24 from Smush Parker had 20, and game out of reach with a 3-the field and had nine assists. Chris Mihm scored 13 as the pointer with 58 seconds He was the force in a close Lakers beat the Bucks for the remaining. Sarunas Jasikevicius fourth quarter as the up-and­18th time in the last 20 meet­finished the scoring for the down Wizards survived an up­ings. Pacers with a pair of free and-down streetball-paced Bryant went 14-of-24 from throws. game. Washington's record has the field, a game after shooting 
Devin Harris added 15 points been 5-5, 6-6 and 7-7, and now just 9-of-30 in a sluggish win and Keith Van Horn had 11 for it's 8-8. over the Charlotte Bobcats on Dallas. J ermaine 0'Neal led Antawn Jamison added 26 Sunday. The Lakers shot 48 Indiana with 25 points and 13 points, 14 rebounds and seven percent (43-of-89). rebounds, and Artest added 15 assists for the Wizards, and "Right now, we need to focus points and five steals. Jared Jeffries had 14 points and on who we are as a basketball 
The Pacers, appearing tired 10 rebounds for his first career club," Lakers coach Phil from their longest road trip of double-double. Jackson said before Tuesday's the season, missed 11 of their Chris Bosh scored 27 points, game. "I don't live with expec­first 14 shots and were con­and Morris Peterson had 21 for tations, so there's nothing there stantly beaten to the boards the Raptors, who were trying to I can say I expected. We're just and loose balls. build a three-game road win­out here kind of treading water 
Nowitzki had 17 points in the ning streak for the first time as a basketball team right now. first half, including four in an 8-since February 2004. After a 1-We're neither hot nor cold, nei­throws, tying a franchise mark and Kirk Snyder each scored 2 run that put the Mavericks in 15 November, Toronto opened ther fish nor fowl." for most attempts. He added 10. Memphis, which struggled control midway through the December with wins at Atlanta Michael Redd scored 21 three blocks. early from the field, eventually first quarter. The Pacers, who and New Jersey. Jose Calderon points for Milwaukee, which Reserve guard Bobby Jackson got untracked thanks to never led and managed only had eight points, nine rebounds had its three-game winning scored 21 points and Eddie Jackson, building an 11-point one tie, went more than 6 min­and a season-high 13 assists. streak snapped. Jones added 11 for Memphis, lead in the second period and utes without a field goal and Peterson forced overtime with Parker scored 15 points in the which held a 21-point lead in taking a 50-39 lead at the break trailed by eight before the first sheer hustle. With Toronto first quarter. He hit two buckets the second half. as Lorenzen Wright hit a 10­basket by O'Neal, who missed down by three with 12 seconds in a row to give the Lakers a By the early stages of the footer at the horn. his first five attempts. left, Peterson got the inbounds 76-61 lead midway through the fourth period, the Hornets' New Orleans chose not to 
Indiana cut the lead to five pass and launched a 3-pointer third quarter and the Lakers starters left the game for good double-team Gasol down low, points early in the second peri­from the top of the key. He stretched the lead to as many and watched from the bench as and the Memphis ieading scorer od, but a fast-break basket and missed, but chased down the as 19 in the fourth. the reserves finished New had 17 points and eight free throw by Harris and two long rebound and dashed to the Orleans' second straight loss. rebounds in the first half. more free throws by Van Horn left corner and tried again, this Memphis 89, New Orleans 73 New Orleans shot 39 percent Mason scored 13 to lead the pushed the Mavs' lead to 33-23. time swishing the basket with 5 MEMPHIS, Tenn. -Paul from the floor. P.J. Brown, lead­Hornets in the first half, and 
seconds to go. Gasol scored 29 points and ing scorer Chris Paul and Smith added all 10 of his points. Washington 11.9, Toronto 111 The Wizards had time to set grabbed 15 rebounds Tuesday reserve guard Speedy Claxton Brown was only 1-of-6 for 
Jarvis Hayes broke out of a up the final play of regulation, night as the Memphis Grizzlies missed a combined 22 of 26 two points. Meanwhile, Paul shooting slump with a season­but Arenas missed a contested beat the New Orleans Hornets shots. was held scoreless until a layup high 21 points, including six in 3-pointer at the buzzer. for their sixth straight victory. Desmond Mason and David with less than a minute left in overtime, and Gilbert Arenas Points were aplenty from the Gasol shot 7 -of-13 from the West led New Orleans with 15 the third period for his only scored 16 of his 37 in the final opening tip in a game between field and also hit 15-of-19 free points apiece, while J.R. Smith points of the game. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Ani Difranco,Caesar Chavez,John  908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm  3-6 BDRM HOMES FOR 06/07.  Two story house completely remod- 
NOTICES  Lennon,Upton Sinclair,Noam Chomsky...  home 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, w/d, broadband internet incl.  ALSO NOW.329·0308  eled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or  PERSONAL  
OVER BREAK ADD YOUR NAME  Avail. 06-07 &07-08 school year.  5-bdrm,2-bath remodeled house.  next semester or next school year.  
NO BOWL TRAVEL DISCOUNTED  TO THE LIST-FIGHT FOR WHAT  327 Hill St:  Grad students or faculty.  Off street parking includes motion  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
AIR AND STUDENT HOTELS  IS RIGHT! Envir. Work/  NEED A HOME TODAY?  Walk to NO. $1100/mo. $1100  sensor light for security. Four indi­ not go it alone. If you or someone  
AnthonyTravel.com  $375+/wk 2-10pm M-F FT/PT  NEED A SECOND CHANCE?  deposit. 574-292-8980.  vidually locked bedrooms, central  you love needs confidential support  
LaFortune-Basement631-7080  Available.  Very nice 3 bdrm home.  station monitored security system,  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
57 4-232-7905.  Close to NO &Corbys.  For rent:  six blocks from Notre Dame, bus  Gude, CSC, at1-7819. For more  
Rock the World  Broadband internet option. WID &  Two story house completely  stop in front of house, surrounded  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
SAVE THE PLANET  Law student needed part time by  alarm system avail.  remodeled 2003.  by other student housing,  THE OBSERVER.  
Activists needed to protectlndianas  local company to assist in patent  Move in today. Call Joe Crimmins  Ready for immediate occupancy or  Laundomat next door, basement  
environment- application and research projects.  574-229-3659 or email  next semeseter or next school year.  available for storage of bicycles,  SPRING BREAK-Early Booking  
$375+/wk, 2-1 Opm M-F, PI for col- Flex hours.  JCrimmins@ myLandGraht.com  Off street parking if1cludes motion  luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace  Specials-FREE Meals &Drinks ­ 
lege students {574)232-7905  Contact 57 4-532-1187.  sensor light for security.  and central air, new kitchen includ­ $50 Deposit -800-234-7007  
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  Four individually locked bedrooms,  ing new stove and refrigerator, large  www.endlesssummertours.com  
WANTED  FoR RENT  bdrms includes all utilities, local phone,washer/dryer,security sys- central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre  living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071 .  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise!  
tem. $400/student.  Dame, bus stop in front of house,  5 Days from $2991  
START @$70 for a 5 hour eventl  WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ 574-315-2509  surrounded by other student hous·  1 bedroom apartment for rent 1 mile  Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity  
Responsible for promoting brands,  ROOM HOMES  ndstudentrentals.com 2006  ing, Laundromat next door, base- to campus.  Parties! Cancun, Acapulco,  
distributing samples/brochures &  MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408  SPRING SEMESTER NOW  men! available for storage of bicy­ $575/mo. Laundry.  Jamaica From $499! Campus Reps  
demonstrating products to con- AVAILABLE.  cles, luggage, trunks, etc.,  Call 283-0325  Needed!  
sumers. Part-time &weekends 4-6  KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES  new furnace and central air,  PromoCode:31  
hours. Apply at www.eventsandpro- FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07  Stop overpaying for rent. Visit  new kitchen including new stove  FREE POOL TABLES  www.springbreaklravel.com  
motions.com  SCHOOL YEAR.  BlueGoldrentals.com  and refrigerator, large living room  if you sign a lease w/Biue &Gold  1-800-678-6386  
CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  for TV or entertaining,  Homes before 1/15.  
HOLIDAY HELP $17.25 base-appt.  4 BEDROOMS, UP TO 10 BED- New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full  free trash removal. Call 289-4071.  4-7 bdrm homes available for 2nd  TODAY IS THE LAST REGULAR  
.....  flex. schedules, cust. sales/service,  ROOMS.  Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace,  sem .  ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER UNTIL  
no exp. nee., cond. apply, all ages  CALL 315-5032  Cathedral Ceilings, 1Ox20 Deck,  4 Bdrm 2 Bath remodeled house  (574)250-7653.  JAN.18.  
18 &older, Call Now, Start After  ASK FOR KRAMER.  Close to Campus. $1700 monthly.  Grad Students or Faculty  GOOD LUCK WITH FINALS AND  
Finals/ South Bend 574-273-3835  Available Aug. 06/07,  1 075 Riverside DR.  1-bdrm apt. includes heat, cable &  HAVE A SAFE BREAK.  
Indianapolis 317-253-2734  123 NO Ave. 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath.  Call574-232-4527,  $1 000/mo + 1 000 Deposit  DSL. $450/mo. Call Rob  
Bloomington 812-330-11 04  Call574-229-0149.  269-683-5038.  57 4-234-5041  57 4-233-2750.  WE LOVE JACK!! I  

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, December 7, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 19 

NHL 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. last 10 NY Rangers 18·8·3 39 7-3·0 Philadelphia 15·6·4 34 4·3·3 New Jersey 13·10·2 28 7·3·0 NY Islanders 13·12·1 27 6·3·1 Pittsburgh 1-14·6 20 2·7·1 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. last 1 0 Ottawa 25-21-4 42 8·2·0 Buffalo 28-17·10 35 8-1-1 Montreal 27·15·7 35 3·4·3 Boston 28·15-10 33 6·3·1 Toronto 29·10·14 25 3·7·0 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 Carolina 16·8·2 34 4·5·1 Tampa Bay 15·10·3 33 8·1-1 Atalanta 10·15·3 23 3·5·2 Florida 9·15·4 22 3·6·1 Washington 9-15·2 20 3·5·2 
Western Conference, Central Division 
tnam  record  pts.  last 10  
Oetroit  18·6·2  36  3·6·1  
Nashville  17-4·3  37  8-2-0  
Chicago Columbus  10·14·2 7·19·0  22 14  4·4·2 2·8·0  
St. Louis  5·13-3  13  3·7·0  

Western Conference, Northwest Division 
tnarn  rncord  pts.  last 10  
Vancouver  11·9·2  36  6-4-0  
Calgary  16·9·3  35  7·2·1  
Edmonton  15·11·2  32  6·3·1  
Colorado  14-10·3  31  5·4·1  
Minnesota  10·12·4  24  2·6·2  

Western Conference, Pacific Division 
tAam record pts. last 10 Oallas 17-7·1 35 8·2·0 Los Angeles 16-11·1 33 4·6·0 Phbenix 15·12·2 32 1·3·0 Anaheim 12·11·4 28 5·5·0 San Jose 10·12·4 24 2·5·3 
Men's Swimming Coaches Poll 
team points 
1 Georgia 200 
2 Auburn 192 
3 Stanford 164 
4 Florida 176 
5 Arizona 167 
6 Cal 161 
7 SMU 148 
8 UCLA 148 
9 Wisconsin 135 
10 Texas 128 
11 usc 117 
12 Penn State 114 
13 Texas A&M 106 
14 Purdue 96 
15 Michigan 84 
16 Tennessee 80 
17 Florida State 76 
18 Indiana 60 
19 Hawaii 59 
20 Virginia 49 
21 North Carolina 37 
22 Washington 27 
23 Kansas 21 
24 NOTRE DAME 16 
:~'{;
25 Rutgers 8 
1~()­
'-"'~•n 
1L'l2 
around the dial 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL NOTRE DAME at Alabama 6:00 p.m, ESPN 
St. Louis at North Carolina 8:00 p.m, ESPN2 
NBA Miami at San Antonio 8:00 p.m, ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 

DALLAS -The Toronto Blue Jays kept up their spending spree on Tuesday by agreeing to terms with starter A.J. Burnett on a five-year, $55 million con­tract. 
The deal was announced at baseball's winter meet­ings just hours after the Blue Jays gave general manager J.P. Hicciardi a three-year contract exten­sion. The Blue Jays, who already gave B.J. Ryan the richest contract ever for a reliever. then reeled in Burnett, the best starter on the free agent market. 
"He's got one of the best arms in baseball," Toronto manager John Gibbons said. "On any given night, he can shut out. I just think he'll fit in perfect." 
It was the second major free agent signing this off­season for the Blue Jays, who gave closer B.J. Ryan a $47 million, five-year deal last week. 
"One thing about the free-agent game is if you're going to get in it, you can't get in it halfway," said Ricciardi, whose own deal takes him through 2010. "Either you're going to be a player or you're not." 
A 28-year-old right-han­der with a 98 mph fastball and a no-hitter on his resume, Burnett was also coveted by the St. Louis Cardinals; they would only offer four years. 
Burnett is 49·50 in his career, all with Florida. He had reconstructive elbow surgery and missed almost all of the 2003 season, then went 12-12 with a 
3.44 ERA last year before being banished from the team in the final week after criticizing manager Jack McKeon and his coaching staff. 
"Sometimes there's per­sonality conflicts," Gibbons said. "He was frustrated. Things were said he prob­ably regrets." 
Burnett declined to com­ment on his departure from Florida, which has shipped out most of its best players in a salary purge. Josh Beckett. Mike Lowell and Guillermo Mota went to Boston; Carlos Delgado and Paul Lo Duca went to the New York Mets and Luis Castillo went to Minnesota. 
''I'm glad I'm not down there any more. Fire sales are always tough," Burnett said. "They'd better teach Dontrelle [Willisl how to play all nine positions." 
Although most teams have gone away from five­year deals, especially for pitchers, Ricciardi said he was willing to make a long-term commitment because Hyan and Burnett are still in their 20s. They are believed to be the first five-year deals for pitchers since the Hangers signed Chan Ho Park in 20(l1. 

IN BRIEF Former Boston manager
little hired by Los Angeles LOS ANGELES -Former Boston Hed Sox manager Grady Little was hired Tuesday to manage the Los Angeles Dodgers. who had been without a field boss for more than two months. 
The 55-year-old Little beat out Jim Fregosi, John McLaren, Manny Acta and Joel Skinner for the job. He suc­ceeds Jim Tracy, who parted ways with the DodgP.rs on Oct 3 -the day after the club completed its second· worst season since moving w~st from Brooklyn in 1958. 
Little managP.d the Hed Sox from 2002·03. compiling a 188-136 record. lie was second-guessed for leaving starting pitcher Pedro Martinez in too long in Game 7 of the 2003 AL championship series, which the New York Yankees won in 11 innings. 
In the fallout, Little's contract was not renewed. But Hed Sox president Larry Lucchino was glad that didn't prevent Little from getting another job. 
"I think that's terrific for Grady, and wish him great good luck," Lucchino said at the winter meetings in Dallas. 
Virginia coordinator 
Golden in as head coach at 
Temple 

PHILADELPHIA-AI Golden is used to winning seasons, sellout crowds and bowl games. 
One victory would be progress for Temple. 
Golden, who spent the past five years as defensive coordinator at Virginia, was hired by Temple on Tuesday to lead its forlorn football program, cmding a search that began two months ago when head coach Bobby Wallace said he wouldn't return to the school. 
"I don't care what's transpired in the past," Golden said, addressing the players gathered at his news confer­ence. "When we meet, we're going to start a new era, you guys are going to start with a clean slate." 
The 36-year-old Golden has a diffi­cult task trying to turn around decades of futility. Temple went 0-11 this year, its first winless season on the field since 1959. 
Temple was 19-71 during Wallace's eight years as eoach, and was booted out of the Big East Confernncn. 
U.S. loses seeding in World 
Cup to Aregentina, Italy 
WINTEH GAHDEN, Fla. -Thn United States came within a point Tuesday of being one of the seeded teams for next year's World Cup. 
Under the draw procedure approved by the FIFA World Cup Organizing Committee, the U.S. team wound up just behind Argentina and Italy. 
U.S. eoaeh Bruce Arona wasn't sur­prised to miss out. 
"I thought all along the draw is going to be difficult. Tlw fil~ld is extremely strong," he said. "I think it's considorably stronger than what we saw in 2002." 
The Americans can't meet a tnam from Asia in the first round of next year's tournament in Germany. There's a good chance they will get' two European opponents. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 7, 2005 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
One last goal awaits Young in Pasadena 
Houston native overcame a tough childhood 
• to lead the Longhorns back to the Rose Bowl 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas-Seventh­grader Vince Young toiled away in his yard, raking leaves and piling them in bags. Each time he finished, his mother would dump them out and tell him to do it again. 
It was his punishment for par­ticipating in a gang light, and it was torture. 
Felicia Young wanted him to hate it. Having struggled with drugs and alcohol for years, and with Vince's father's in jail most of her son's life, she was trying to scare the kid straight. 
"She told me I'd end up dead or in jail," Young said, recalling his childhood in Houston, "walk­ing with the wrong crowd and getting gunshots shot at you, try­ing to avoid a bullet." 
"When I was raking those leaves, I thought about that," he said. "I started really working on football and school more, and that was that." 
"That" became the unleashing of an elusive, strong-armed awkward sidearm motion was too inconsistent. 
"He HAD to move to receiver," Texas coach Mack Brown recalled recently. 
Instead of benching him or moving him to a new position, Brown left the team in the hands of a 6-foot-5, 230-pound project, flaunting his size and speed as Texas bullied teams with a pun­ishing rushing attack. 
The Longhorns haven't lost since. 
Young's breakout game was the last Rose Bowl when he ran for 20, 60, 10 and 23 touch­downs and threw for another in Texas' 38-37 win over Michigan. 
"Vince Young is the fmest ath­lete I've ever been on the field with," Wolverines coach Lloyd Carr said afterward. 
As a passer, Young silenced his critics with 2,769 yards and 26 touchdowns this season. He's also run for a team-high 850 yards and nine TDs in an offense that scored 50 or more points seven times. His pass efficiency 
rating is 168.6, the 
best in the nation. 

quarterback who "Vznce Young is "We take for became a local leg­the finest athlete granted now what end in a city as big he does," Brown
I've ever been on 

as Houston and said. "He does has become an whatever he needs
the field with. '' even bigger star at to do to win." the University of Lloyd Carr Young's arm got 
Texas. Texas its biggest
Young has led Michigan head coach 
win of the season, a 

the No. 2 Longhorns to 19 straight wins and a Rose Bowl showdown with No. 1 Southern California for the national championship. He's done it in such a spectacular way that on Saturday he'lllikely be in New York as a finalist for the Heisman Trophy, trying to join Earl Campbell and Ricky Williams as the only Longhorns to win the award. 
His top competition comes from the guys Texas will have to stop Jan. 4 -Trojans running back Reggie Bush and quarter­• back Matt Leinart, who won the award last season. Young's supporters see him as the best of both. As a quarter­back, he's the team's leader, like Leinart, yet as a phenomenal athlete capable of making eye­popping plays, he's every defen­sive coordinator's nightmare, like Bush. "At this level you see a few guys with capes and S's on their chest and Vince Young is one of them," Colorado coach Gary Barnett said -before Young passed for three touchdowns and ran for another against the Buffaloes in a 70-3 victory in the Big 12 title game last Saturday. Young's won 29 of 31 starts, passing Bobby Layne -a college and pro Hall of Farner who set the standard for Texas quarter­backs back in the 1950s -for the most victories. He's accounted for 78 touch­downs in his career, breaking the school record of 76 set by Williams, the 1998 Reisman win­ner. His 8,705 yards of total offense is also a school record. Funny thing is, midway through last season, critics want­ed him to play another position. Following a shutout loss to rival Oklahoma, Young was derided as a great runner whose 
25-22 victory at Ohio State, with a late-game touchdown pass to Limas Sweed. 
Then the season really started rolling. 
Texas ended five years of frus­tration against Oklahoma. Young was the center of the post-game celebration, leading thousands of fans in singing the "Eyes of Texas." 
Three weeks later, he saved Texas' season with 506 total yards -267 on the ground, 239 through the air -in a 47-28 win at Oklahoma State. Texas trailed 28-9 in the second quarter and Young's 80-yard touchdown run at the start of the third turned the game. 
"When the chips are down, he can pull something from nowhere," offensive tackle Justin Blalock said. 
Young is just as important a leader off the field as on it. 
He leads the pre-game, behind-the-scenes "flow ses­sions" of music and dancing that keep the players and coaches loose. To get in better touch with his players, Brown downloaded hours of hip-hop music into his i­Pod. 
"I was telling him [Brown] sometimes what 50 Cent be say­ing, it's similar to some of our guys' lives," Young said. "We talk to each other like we're best friends. I knew our relationship would be good, but not like it is now. We've been together a looonnngg time. It's let me grow into a man." 
Since midseason, Young has maintained that he plans to return for a senior season, even if his family could use the riches of an NFL contract. 
"It's my decision and right now my decision is to come back to school," he said before Texas beat Colorado for the Big 12 title. 



Wednesday, December 7, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NFL 

Bengal blues have disappeared in Cincinnati 
AP 

Bengals coach Marvin Lewis reacts to a call against the Steelers on Dec_ 4. Lewis has Jed his team to the top of the AFC North. 

GOLF 

Woods vvins player of the year award, again 
Lewis's 9-3 Bengals can clinch a playoff berth with a win 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Tl11~ usual l>nenmber question around those parts -how low can thn Bengals go? -has been rnplaced hy one from a bygone nra. 
This year, nvnryone is won­doring: llow deop ean the Bengals go ... in tho playoffs'? 
At 1)-:{, tlw Bengals arc all hut enrtain to win the AFC North. They're two garnos ahead of' Pittsburgh and can elineh their first playoff appnaraneo sinco 191)0 with a vil:tory Sunday over Clcvnland and a Steelers loss to the Boars. 
Evon if' the Steelers win the rost of' the way, the Bcngals ean elinch the title by beating tlw Browns (4-1-1) and the Lions (4-1-1) in the next two weeks. Cincinnati would have the tinbrnaknr over the Steelers. 
Tlwn what? 
"You ride it as hard as you ean, as fast as you can, and see whore we get at the end of things," defensive end Justin Smith said. 
There are three reasons to think that Cincinnati's long­awaited return to the playoffs could be more than a one-and­done deal. 
1. The offense has Carson. 
Quarterback Carson Palmer has surpassed all expectations, developing into one of the NFL's best passers in only his second season running the offense. lie leads the league in completion rate (61-1.7 percent) and touchdowns (26) and is second to Peyton Manning with a 106.6 passer rating. 
These days, he resembles Manning in mom than just the numbers. The Bengals have reliod on their no-huddle offense in the last three games. With Palmer calling plays at the line the way Manning does, Cincinnati has piled up 37, 42 and 38 points against respected defenses ­Indianapolis, Baltimore and Pittsburgh. 
Even with screaming Steelers fans doing their best to disrupt Palmer's calls, the Bengals stayed with the no­huddle last Sunday and pre­vented Pittsburgh from substi­tuting an extra defensive back or pass rusher. 
The Steelers were corning off a 26-7 loss to Indianapolis and had practiced against the no­huddle for two weeks, so they were well-prepared. It didn't matter -they gave up 30 points for the first time all sea­son. 
Even the best defense can 
have problems keeping up with an unfamiliar, fast-paced approach. 
"We're tired, but we always know that they're three times more tired than we are because they're chasing the football," offensive tackle Willie Anderson said. "It' speeds the game up." 
2. The defense has a. craving for turnovers. 
The defense held the Bengals back the last two years, forc­ing them to settle for 1-1-8 fin­islws. This year, it has found a way to overcome its shortcom­ings. 
Interceptions. 
The Bengals lead the NFL with 26 interceptions, 10 more than anyone else and eight shy of the franchise record. Cornerback Deltha O'Neal leads the league with eight, rookie middle linebacker Odell Thurman has live, and corner­back Tory James has four. 
The defense gives up a lot of yards (ranked 28th this week) and a lot of points (1 05 in tho last three games). but has got­ten turnovers that set up the high-scoring offense. 
"For us this year, it seems they've been coming in bunch­es," linebacker Brian Simmons said. "Once one happens, two or three more are soon to fol­low. For whatever reason, that's kind of how it's going for us this year." 
Which brings up the third point: 
3. The tiger stripes have good karma this year. 
The Bengals have gotten plenty of breaks -and make no mistake, those matter in how things turn out. 
A couple of significant injuries can knock a team out of contention. Think Pittsburgh isn't wondering where it would be if Ben Hoethlisberger hadn't messed 
Associated Press 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calil'. ­Tiger Woods won tho P<;A Tour player of the year award Tuesday for the seventh time in his nine full seasons. the final prize in a year that featured two major championships among his six tour titles. 
It was the filth time Woods has swept the three major awards ­the Jack Nicklaus Trophy as play­er of the year. the Arnold Palmer Award for leading the money list and the Byron Nelson Award for having the lowest scoring aver­age. 
"It's not about winning player of the year awards," Woods said at the Target World Challenge. "It's about winning tournaments that allow you to get these awards." 
Woods previously won player of the year from the PCA of America, which is based on points. The tour's award is a voto of the players, although tour olli­dals have refused to rnlnase vote totals. 
Dana Quigley, who won the money title on the 50-and-oldf~r drcuit, won tho Champions Tour player of the year, while .Jason Gore was the Nationwide Tour player of' the year having won three times t.o narn an instant promotion to the big leagues. 
Sean O'llair was voted PGA Tour rookie of the year. lie earned his card at Q-sehool, won tho John Deere Classic in July and finished his season at 18th up both knees and the thumb on his passing hand? What eould Green Bay have done if Brett Favre didn't lose his top two running backs and three receivers to injuries'? 
The Bengals have been for­tunate that way. Safety Madeiu Williams has been the most significant loss on defense. The offense has stayed intact, playing through the bruises and strains that crop up with every team. 
on the money list with more than $2.4 million. lie had nowr play1~d in a PGA Tour event until this season. 
Olin Browne was voted conw­baek player of' the year on the PGA Tour, rnturning from nag­ging shoulder and ba1:k injuries and retooling his swing in his mid-40s to win the I>nutsc.he Bank Championship and qualify for tlw Tour Championship for the lirst time. 
Other· awards announced Tuesday: 
+ 
Jay llaas was rookie of the year on the Champions Tour, winning twice in only 10 starLo.;. 

+ 
Peter .Jacobsen was eomn­baek player of the ynar on tlw Champions Tour, winning tlw Senior Players Championship. 


Woods has failed to win PGA Tour playnr of' tlw year only twkn sincP his lirst full season in 1997 -both times whiln owrhauling swing in 1991-1 and in 2004. lin won only orw toumanwnt each of tlms1~ ymtrs. 
lin started this year with a vie­tory in the Buick Invitational, out­lasted Phil Mieknlson in a tense duel at Dora!, then eapturnd his !ilurth grnnn jacknt with a playofl' vidory ovnr Chris DiMarco in the Masters. lie essentially clinched t.he award with a wire-to-win~ vidory in t.hn British Opm1. 
Woods said tlw award was a produet of' winning, but his first. playnr of thn ynar was far nwrn signilieant. That was in 1997, when his four victories induded a 12-shot win in tho Mastnrs. 

NFL 
Colts's face tough challenge in Jags 


Open St:udy Hours: 
December 8  7am t:o 3:00am  lVIidnight: Snacks!  
December 9  7am t:o 3:00am  lVIidnight: Snacks!  
December 10  7am t:o 3:00am  lVIidnight: Snacks!  
December 11  7am t:o 3:00am  lVIidnight: Snacks!  
Finals Week:  Dec., 12-16  Open: 7am t:o 3:00am  

*December 16 DeBart:olo closes 30 minut:es af"t:er last: scheduled exam "through t:he Regisirar"s Office. Free lVIidnight: Snacks on st:udy days only! 
24 Non-t:echnology rooms., first: come/ first: serve 
See BuiLding Suppor~ Person ifyou have specific needs: Roonz .Z03, .Z04. 
Coleman-~orse: 1st Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Same dat:es as Iist:ed above. Al'Ways-Free Snacks! 
o~Shaughnessy: Roonzs avaiLabLefor open s~udy e.x:cep~ -.vhen scheduLed by ~he Regis~rar 's office. 
December 8 8:00am t:o 3:00am December 9 8:00am t:o 3:00am Dec.ember 10 8:00am t:o 3:00am December 11 8:00am t:o 3:00am Finals Week: December 12-16 8am t:o 3:00am Sunday 1:00pm t:o 3:00am. lVIonday-Thursday 5:00pm-3:00am. Rooms: 204., 206., 207., 208., 209. 
:<i>nacks LL~-Lring ~~~udy L~ay:~ cour~e:.y ofi 
Business OperatioJns Canzpus ~inis~ry S~udenc~ Unionc BoarcL 
***Good Luck ""i"th Finals*** 

Student Christmas Party 
Wednesday, December 7th 
Special Appearance from "Santa and His Helpers" Doors at 10 ,..; Drink Specials 
CLUBFEVER.BIZ 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-History can wait for the Indianapolis Colts. 
Sure, they're one of only five NFL teams to go 12-0 and are getting deluged daily with ques­tions about staying undefeated. 
But this week, the Colts insist, there are more pressing con­cerns. 
A win over their toughest AFC South rival, Jacksonville, would wrap up the division title, give them a first-round bye, possibly even home-field advantage through the playoffs. Coach Tony Dungy has instructed his players to forget about any­thing else. 
"We definitely want that bye because that's not something we've had since I've been here," said Dungy, in his fourth season with Indianapolis. "Those are big things for us, things we started thinking about before the season began." 
This week's message is sim­ple: Focus on the short-term and let others worry about Indy's quest over the final month to match the 1972 Miami Dolphins' unbeaten record. 
At least that's the company line. 
Outside the Colts complex, the Colts can't avoid talk of their unbeaten record. 
Everyone wants to know who, or if, one of the remaining teams on Indy's schedule can end this remarkable run. No team has been unbeaten this late in the season since the 1998 Denver Broncos, and the Colts have given no indication that they're about to trip now. 
Seven of their past nine wins have come by at least 17 points. They lead the NFL in scoring, averaging more than 35 points over the past nine weeks, and have yielded the second-fewest points in the league. Only three teams -Cincinnati, St. Louis and New England -have scored more than two touch­downs against the Colts all sea­son. 
Conventional wisdom sug­gests the Colts are unlikely to lose at home, where it still plays San Diego and Arizona. That leaves games at Jacksonville and two weeks later at Seattle, in what will likely be hyped as a Super Bowl preview. 
Jacksonville does have a his­tory against the Colts. The teams have split the last two season series, and the Jaguars have traditionally given Indianapolis more trouble than most opponents. 
The Colts' 10-3 victory in this season's first meeting was the only time this year the Colts trailed in the fourth quarter. So Dungy might not have to do much to keep his players' attention. 
"They've played us as well as anybody in the division, and they're as hot as anybody," Dungy said. "We always play close games, so we're expecting a great game with a lot of intensity. It should be great for the NFL." 
But the Jaguars also are play­ing with a backup quarterback, David Garrard, and the Colts have been equally as proficient on the road as at home. Under Dungy, the Colts are 23-7 in the RCA Dome and 23-7 on the road. 
All the Colts want to do, with the ongoing circus around their complex, is keep things in per­spective. 
"We get the opportunity next week to go down there and win the division," two-time MVP Peyton Manning said after Sunday's latest rout.' "It's nice to secure a playoff spot, .but now we want to go try to win the division." 
While Dungy will let others talk about a perfect season, he believes the Colts do have the perfect combination. 
+ 
There's Manning, the stu­dious quarterback who has never missed a start and almost never misses a read. With his mastery of this offense and keen ability to adapt to any defensive formation, the Colts rarely lose yardage. 

+ 
There's Edgerrin James, the two-time NFL rushing champ who has become the Colts' sledgehammer. He's car­ried the ball 2.75 times already this season, has the most runs of between 5 and 9 yards in the NFL and has shown no sign of slowing down. Besides, he wants to prove he's worthy of a long-tPrm contract since he could become an unrestricted free agent next year. 



Wednesday, December 7, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Saints, Texans keep promise to Katrina victim 
Four NFL players visit contest-winning third grader Paul Kohnke in Houston 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON -If New Orleans' famed French Quarter had a kids elub, this is likely how it would look. The scene made third-grador Paul Kohnke, dis­placed by Hurricane Katrina, fool at home, if only for a 
lliOITHlllt. 
Children with multicolored Mardi Gras beads around their necks joined a duo of New Orleans Saints daneing wildly to tho pulsing beat of a Zydeco hand in between bites of bnignets and king cake 
Tuesday at Houston's Fay School. 
"This is so cool," Paul said. "I can't believe it. It reminds me of home." 
Paul, who loves the Saints, won the "NFL Take a Player to School" contest this summer. But when his name was drawn, Katrina had already ravaged New Orleans, and the NFL couldn't find him. The Kohnkes, who relocated to Houston, eventually returned to check on their home in the Uptown section of the city and found the package announcing the good news. 

Instead of waiting until Paul could return home, the NFL, Saints and Houston Texans decided to throw an early Mardi Gras celebration for him at his new school. 
Saints defensive ends Tony Bryant and Charles Grant, wearing T-shirts that read "Be A Saint," escorted Paul and his brother James, 11, to school in a limo. Quiet and shy, Paul, clad in Grant's No. 94 jersey, waited several minutes before haltingly asking the players a question. 

MUSIC LESSONS 
The Notre Dame Department of Music provides lessons to faculty, staff, and administrators as well as students! 
Visit Room 105 Crowley Hall of Music (next to LaFortune Student Center) by january 19, 2006 to register. 
For more information; visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/-music 
;) I~ ~~ 
Credit optional! Flexible scheduling! 
"Who is the hardest quarter­back to sack," Paul asked, drawing a ehuckle from both players, but no answer. 
Paul has been able to quickly mesh with his classmates and get on track at his new school. His teacher, Laurie Dreyfuss, said he's a great student and is so conscientious that when told to wear a Saints jersey to school on Tuesday, he worried that he'd get in trouble for vio­lating the school's dress code. 
Bryant applauded Paul for adjusting to his new school and said changing schools was his biggest fear as a child. 
"I thought the worst thing that 
cot, and Texans mascot Torn also milled throughout the crowd. 
Paul stood gawking at the 6­foot-3, 290-pound Grant as the easygoing player talked to the crowd while resting a huge hand on Paul's slight shoulder. 
"You opened your arms to Paul," Grant told the students. "Helping people builds charac­ter, leadership, family. America needs a lot of family and friends. Without family and friends, Ameriea wouldn't turn the way it turns." 
Morgan,  a  receiver  for  
1Ioust1in,  reI a ted  to  Pau I  
beeause his fam­ 
ily was also dis­ 


could happen was placed from
"This is cool, I 
to go to another New Orleans by
can't believe it. It
school and have to Katrina. The make new reminds me of Texans organi­friends," Bryant zation helped
home."
said. his family mem­
"It was kind of bers l'ind hous­hard at first," Paul Paul Kohnke ing in Houston said. "But I did it." winner of "NFL Take a after the storm. 
During the ride, "I've been
Player to School" 
Bryant and Grant through the
contest
chatted with Paul, James and their mother, Beth Kohnke, about how they missed the food and flavor of New Orleans. Paul told the players about his foot­ball team winning a champi­onship after slight prodding from his mother. 
Beth Kohnke said the family will likely have to stay in their cramped apartment in Houston until the spring when repairs to their house in New Orleans should be finished. Her hus­band has been commuting from Houston to New Orleans 
experience, and 
I know how important it is to havn sup­port," he sa.id. "M~ tnammates were there lor mo. 

The players asked il' anyone had questions and quickly learned that these third­through fifth-graders weren't afraid to ask anything. 
"Y'all haven't been winning very much," 7-year-old Bess Krasoff said, sending the play­ers running for cover. "What are you going to do to win?" 
Later they tossed footballs and ran around outside with 
rtment of Economics and Econometrics Presents 
for his real estate job. 
"I wish my friends in New Orleans could see this," Paul said, chest puffed up, as he got out of the limo with Bryant and Charles to the tune of "When the Saints Go Marching In." 
Paul introduced the players to his classmates and was sur­prised when Travis Johnson and Donovan Morgan of the Houston Texans joined the party. Gumbo, the Saints mas-the children while Grant implored his group to start a chant of "Stay in school!" 
Before the party died down, Paul got up on stage and played the washboard with the band. Grant gave Paul a high­live when he was done, and his mother looked wistful as she ·• softly tousled his hair. 
"I love hearing the musie," she said. "But it makes me 
homcsiek." 
UNIVERSITY 
~~~~::;;UU UHE l!tE Hi ill~1:SIS U I ~Hl' 1 
0 UTFITTERSIM 
tht~ campus ston~ off campus'"' 
6ent disc0

"J""v v~ -bowl merchandise* ~ -charlie1s arm~ t-shirts 
-_Jerse~s 
-sweatshirts 
-steins 
all at a reasona 

officiaii.Y licensed Notre Dame merchandise 
•bowl merchandiee available week. ot l 2-' 
located in tht~ Martin's Supermarket Plaza I hlock east of 1\.trtlc-Cn:l'k Apartnwnts 
243-4197 

• 
Wednesday, December 7, 2005

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look for MIAA vvins before Chrisbnas 
By TIM KAISER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will take on Adrian College tonight in the Belles' last home game of 2005. The Belles (1-5) are coming off of a narrow defeat to North Park 
:university, and will look to get back on track with a win against the Lady Bulldogs (2-3). 
The Belles know they beat themselves in their last game by shooting just 23 percent from the floor, and so are focusing more on improving their game in prac­tice this week than on Adrian. 
"We're watching film tomor­row, about a half an hour before game," said senior captain Bridget Boyce. "[All we] know [is] they tend to go to the basket more than shoot threes." 
The Belles will mostly be work­ing on their inconsistencies from the past few games in order to put together a more complete game against Adrian. 
"We've been playing really ten­tative on offense," Boyce said. "We're working on taking the ball to the basket, drawing con­tact and finishing shots. We're a strong free throw shooting team -getting to the line is a benefit for us." · 
Boyce said the team feels that it is not only improving on the physical aspects of the game, but pulling together as well. 
• "Having a younger team, it is an up-and-down season," Boyce said. "We've really taken our mistakes to heart and learned from them. We've gotten better from more experience, and now we're taking things in stride, working more as a unit." 
After tonight's game, Saint Mary's will hit the road for its last game before Christmas, making the four and a half hour bus trip to play Alma College in Michigan. Despite the long ride, the team is looking forward to the trip. 
"Yeah, it's four and half hours," Boyce said, "but we've done better away. Actually, we really don't mind [traveling]. We traveled six [hours] to Hanover, and we traveled really well. We have a really good time on the bus, we don't dread it." 
After Alma, the players have Christmas to look forward to. 
"Definitely the freshmen, as well as upperclassmen but espe­cially freshmen, are looking for­ward to spending time with fami­lies," Boyce said. "We have a few practices during finals, then a week to a week and a half off, and then on the 26th, we go to the Clark Tournament in Iowa. Then we get New Year's off, and a few days after that." 
But the Belles won't let Christmas or fmals distract them from their game. They feel they are prepared and ready to win. 
"Our focus is taking the ball to the basket, and playing as a team," Boyce said. "[We've got to] come in strong, from warm up, and carry it though the first and second halves to win this game." 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 
ent te Friday December 9,2005 7:00-9:00 pm Joyce Center Ice Rink 
nng your ID for FREE dmission and skate rental 
n to Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holv Cross students. 
R~~ 
WIN A PAIR OF Tl TO LAS VEGAS 0 
alle~nt 
dlr. 
Trick 
continued from page 28 
needed to play on the road because the things that hurt us on the road in the past, the special teams, were there." 
The Irish scored two power play goals and limited the Mavericks to one man advantage goal on seven chances. 
With well under a minute left in the game and the score knotted at 2-2, T.J. Jindra won the faceoff in the Mavericks' zone and drew the puck back to Wes O'Neill on the point. O'Neill slid the puck over to Trick on the high left side and Trick let off a blast that was deflected into the net off of Minnesota State goalie Mike Zacharias' pads. 
The Irish took their second lead of the game 14:47 into the second period on a Josh Sciba goal, assisted by Erik Condra (goal and an assist) and O'Neill (three assists) to put the game at 2-1. The goal was the second success­four minutes later when Rob fully converted power play Rankin tucked the puck past on the night when Sciba Irish goaltender Dave Brown flipped the puck over a for the 1-1 tie. prone Zacharias off of a Zacharias was solid in net rebound. for Minnesota State with 19 

The lead would not stand, saves as he held off the however, as Minnesota State potent Irish attack. Brown converted a stopped 27 out power play of of 29 Maverick its own 5:57 "We played the shots on the into the third way we need to game and on a Mick secured his sec­
play on the road.,, 
Berge rebound ond straight win to tie the game between the at 2-2. Jeff Jackson pipes, including "We held the last Saturday's
Irish coach 
fort, we had a couple of penal­ty kills to kill off," Jackson said of the third period after MSU tied the game. "The PK made the difference, Jindra and [Mark] Van Guilder were outstanding on PK in the third. They gave us a chance to win it on the last face off." 
Condra got his second goal of the year and the Irish on the board first with a power play tally at 7:00 into the first period on a rebound assisted by O'Neill and Sciba. The Mavericks can­celled the Irish lead only 
3-0 shutout of 
Western Michigan. Rankin's first peri­od goal snapped a 91:20 shutout streak for Brown that dates back to the second period of the Nov. 26 loss to Ohio State. 
"He was instrumental in the PK being as effective as it was," Jackson said of Brown's performance. "He made some key saves at important times. He was a big part of our success." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

CheckingI 
four products 
es. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
of the 
TATE 
DPM 

Wednesday, December 7, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
Fencing 

continued from page 28 
victuals not connnctnd to any col­legiate team. 

"Wiwther thny go to !the meet! is up to the fencers," Bednarski said. "I will go as an observer, just to see how they compete." 
Snvnral of the 17 Irish !(meers nxpnctnd to compete in the tour­nament am favorites to place highly. Bndnarski mentioned women's saber competitors Marini Zagunis and Valerie Providnnza as two of tho top­ratnd Notre Dame fencers travel­ing to Pittsburgh. 
"For some, likn Zagunis [a 2004 Olympic gold medalist!, they will fight to be winners," Bednarski said. "For some others they will fight for higher rankings." 
Irish fencers eompeting in the tournament on the men's side will be Greg Howard, Patrick Gettings and Jnsse Laeuchli in the npne; Frank Bontempo and Mark Kubik in the foil; and Bill Thanhouser, Patrick Ghattas, Matt Stearns and Nicolas Diaeou in saber. 
For the women, Zagunis and Providenza will compete in saber, Adrinnne Nott in foil and Amy Orlando, Hebecca Chimahusky and Kimberlee Montoya in epee. 
The Irish individuals enter the national competition after a strong team performance in the Northwestern Duals held Nov. 20 in Evanston, Ill. Both squads fin­ished with 6-0 records, headlined by the womens' 21-6 victory over the host Wildcats, who Bednarski considers one of the better squads in the nation. 
"We were very, very surprised by how quickly we demolished the Northwestern team," Bednarski said. "We fenced well. We very quickly got a lead and very quickly finished off the com­petition." 
Zagunis and foilist Emilie Prot swept through the duals without a loss as the Notre Dame women won 84 percent of their bouts in wins over Johns Hopkins (26-1), Stanford (22-5), 21-6 over Northwestern and California-San Diego and 23-4 over both North Carolina and Cal State Fullerton. 
The men were equally impres­sive in the duals, winning 77 per­cent of their matches. Howard, Ghattas and Stearns combined for a record of 37-7 in wins over Northwestern (25-2), North Carolina (22-5), Stanford (15-12), California-San Diego (21-6), Johns Hopkins (18-9) and Cal­State Fullerton (24-3). 
Notre Dame's next team event 


will be the NYU Duals in New  ranked.  excited for the season."  
York City on Jan. 22. By then, the  "We have a lot of hard workers  
national standings should be out  and a lot of very talented kids,"  Contact Mike Gilloon at  
and the Irish expect to be highly  Bednarski said. "We're very  mgilloon@nd.edu  

time meeting with Wisconsin, games in the 1997 NCAA which comes into the tourna­Tournament.
Tourney 

ment leading the all-time However, the Irish have continued from page 28 series with Notre Dame 5-1. thrived in big games this sea­
The Badgers swept the Irish 3-son. Brown said. "It's not a false 0 in last season's NCAA "We've stepped up in big confidence. It's an earned con­Tournament. They also matches and made big plays fidence." knocked off the Irish the last and had some really solid 
Tho Irish will need to be time the team advanced to the wins," Brown said. confident in their seventh all-Sweet 16, winning in four Those wins include a sweep 
Calline All December Gratlsl 
(Spring Grade .. we•u Take You. Too) 

We're hiring smart and innovative people for all kinds of poaltiOns, .and we'll trainyou. Apply at www.:_E;::air.:::systems.com 


against eighth-seeded Florida the attitude the Irish are tak­(32-2), a five-game triumph ing with them to Texas. over Texas (24-5) and a four­"Everyone has more confi­game victory over 12th-seeded denec," outside hitter Southern California (17 -11 ). Adrianna Stasiuk said, com­
Although paring this ynar's Wisconsin is a team with last formidable chal­year's, which lost
"We've stepped 
lenge, the other 34-36, 16-30, 16­side of the College up in big matches 30 to tlw Badgers Station bracket and made big in Madison, Wise. isn't any easier. "To put the ball
plays and had
It includes away or do cer­
some really
third-seeded tain things." Washington (28-1) solid wins. " Senior All-and 14th-seeded American Lauren Purdue (25-8). Brewster agreed
Debbie Brown
The two will this year's team is
Irish coach 
square off at 8 different. 
p.m. Friday. Notre "We know we Dame and can do it," she Wisconsin face off at 6 p.m. said. "We've done it befon~." Friday in the opener at G. Last year's squad didn't have Hollie White Coliseum on the quite the resume this year's campus of Texas· group has. A&M University, Last year, the where the Irish "Everyone has Irish lost twice to are 1-1 this year. more confidence." a solid Nebraska They swept team. One was a Tulane and fell to five-game loss
Adrianna Stasluk
Louisiana State in arter leading 2-0. five games in the Irish outside hitter llownver, the Nokia Sugar Bowl Irish have experi­Classic. enced phenome­
The Friday winners will nal success this season, and clash Saturday at 6 p.m. for a arc ready to get down to busi­berth in the Final Four, which ness in College Station. will also take place in Texas -"We just think we can do Dec. 15-17 in the Alamodome some really speeial things this in San Antonio. year," Brown said after the 
Overall, in Texas, the Irish Irish beat Northwestern last are 4-1 this season. They are Friday to advance to their first 3-0 in the Alamodomc, where Sweet H> since 1997. they won the University of Texas San Antonio's Dome Contact Tom Dorwart at Rally. This has helped add to tdorwart@nd.edu 


V!i. Florida International Dece111ber, 10-7:05p111 
Free l:hick-Fii-A t=or Students [\1\/hlle supplies last]. Troop ND to perform at halftime. 
Wednesday, December 7, 2005 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
Purdue 
continued from page 28 
said of McGraw. "She'll be fine. She'll be back soon." 
Washington said she has· tried to make life without McGraw as normal as possible for her play­ers. Her efforts have paid divi­dends. Notre Dame downed Iona 7 4-55 at the Joyce Center on Nov. 29, and the Irish won 77-72 at Wisconsin Dec. 4. 
"[McGraw] has a tremendous system in place, and I don't have to do any juggling or adjusting," Washington said. ''I'm just trying to keep things going along as they would be if she were here. And she's set a very high standard of practice for the players and for our­selves as a coaching staff. We're just going along and keeping things going the way she would do it if she was here." 
Washington said she is proud of the way her young team has handled McGraw's extended absence. Notre Dame has just two seniors and two juniors on its 12-player roster. 
"I think it's been tough, but I think they've really risen to the challenge," Washington said. "I think they understand that the best thing that they can do in the situation is to play better, to play smarter, to play harder, to give more than they've give before. And as long as we con­tinue to do that as a team, I think we'll be ok and we'll be able to compete." 
Purdue will be led by its two stars, junior guard Katie Gearlds and junior forward Erin Lawless. Gearlds, a two­time first team all-Big Ten hon­oree, leads the Boilermakers in scoring, averaging 12.8 points per game. Lawless, who led the team in scoring a year ago, is close behind, posting 12 points per contest. 
But Washington said Notre Dame must be wary of concen­trating too heavily on Purdue's top two players. 
"They've got a lot of weapons both offensively and defensive­ly," Washington said. "If you think you can just come in and shut down one or two people and you can beat them, you are mistaken. We've got to have a very well-rounded defensive attack if we are going to be in this game." 
Notre Dame will be playing its second road game against a Big Ten opponent in the past four days. The Irish edged Wisconsin Sunday in Madison thanks in large part to the play of senior captain Megan Duffy, who scored 20 points and dished out five assists in the game. Duffy has been coming up big for the Irish all year, averaging 18 points and 4.8 assists per game. 
Notre Dame has never won a game at the Mackey Arena in seven chances. 
Notes: 
• Duffy and freshman guard Lindsay Schrader were both selected to the Big East Conference Weekly Honor Roll Monday. In addition to her per­formance against Wisconsin, Duffy recorded 23 points and three assists against lona Nov. 
29. Schrader, who is the first freshman this season to be named to the Honor Roll, aver­aged 13.5 points and four rebounds in the two games. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
Bam.a 
continued from page 28 
improve game-by-game with the goal of containing the Crimson Tide's rebounding and inside scoring. 
Irish coach Mike Brey said Tuesday it is crucial that his team controls rebounds against Alabama, whose starting front­court of power forward Chuck Davis and center Jermareo Davidson averages 32 points and 17.4 rebounds combined per game. 
"We gave up two put-backs late in the game against Michigan," Brey said, referring to a pair of Graham Brown field goals late in the Wolverines' 71­67 victory. "And Alabama's strength is on the backboard ... we've got to pressure and not let them play volleyball on the backboard." 
The Irish are currently out­rebounding opponents 38.8 to 32.2, but the Crimson Tide (4-1) are cause for concern inside the lane. Only shooting guard Justin Jonus (11 points per game) averages double-figure scoring numbers in addition to Davis and Davidson. 
"It's definitely important for our guards to help our big men," Irish point guard Chris Quinn said. 
Notre Dame practiced Tuesday afternoon before flying south at night. 
Thus far in the season, the young Irish have set goals head­ing into games in the hopes of improving steadily but surely for Big East play in January. Most recently, they accomplished their goal of involving center Torin Francis more in the offense against Michigan. Francis scored 22 points and grabbed 13 rebounds, albeit not receiving the ball down the stretch in the second half. 
But Quinn saw the team grow Saturday despite the defeat. 
"I think we definitely improved from the N.C. State game [a 61-48 loss] to the Michigan game," the co-captain said. "We moved the ball a lot better. It's just hard sometimes to see the improvements when you lose." 
Brey, Quinn and shooting guard Colin Falls all admitted to tinkering with the offense fol­lowing the Michigan game to free Falls up for more open looks at the hoop. 
Though the Irish improved their scoring output from the previous game dramatically, Falls took just three shots and could not get open to prevent Notre Dame from making just 6­of-20 from behind the arc. 
"We put in some different screening looks," Falls said. "I think our offense got so repeti­tive sometimes, teams knew what we were doing." 
Notre Dame could use the win for strength of schedule purpos­es, as well. The Irish will not play another team currently ranked in the AP top 25 until they host No. 4 Villanova on Jan. 28. 
Alabama's only loss came to Memphis, 87-76, in the second round of the Preseason NIT in Tuscaloosa, Ala. The Crimson Tide only managed a 60-57 win over Winthrop Saturday, but they also put up 105 points on Alabama State Nov. 20. 
Alabama will re-dedicate Coleman Coliseum at halftime. The arena, originally opened in January 1968, has undergone a recent $28 million renovation. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Lewis edges Fasano for Mackey 
Associated Press 
MANHASSET, N.Y. -UCLA's Marcedes Lewis won the John Mackey Award as the nation's top tight end after leading the Bruins in catches and receiving yards. 
Lewis, a senior, set career highs with 58 receptions, 741 yards and 10 touchdowns, all UCLA records for a tight end. 
The other finalists were Maryland~s Vernon Davis and Notre Dame's Anthony Fasano. 
The Mackey award will be presented by The Nassau County Sports Commission in May. 


Wednesday, December 7. 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
JOCKULAR 

ERIK POWERS and ALEC WHITE
. ., 


K\N~ C?,F MoNE.'( 
'20 1 00() 
t'J\01 FDR 
':-T\1 OSE.. 
JUMBLE 

~lM~0f1JK 
Yesterday' Jumbles: VERVE 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
PIVOT BELIEF JOSTLE 

' 
s Answer: What the hosts were stuck with when ttie party ended -''LEFTOVERS" 
CROSSWORD 

:1\ ~CJ'C>Sif ' · ~38 "Drac~~t al'thor ·1. Auto· parts' giant Stoker 5 They may be 39 Gunpowder, e.g. vaulted 40.N<1Vy,eNte 10 Sharp or flat, . ! 41 Assault Ofl Troy, say ···~ . . e.g. , 1: 13 P,QQs; in 42 2003 Nicolas , .14 Timely benefits Cage f.ilm 15 Cap-__ (from 45 Hooq's piece head to foot) 46 Sr.'s e!xam 16 Bureaus 47 Barely enough 19 It may· have 50 Liquid-Piumr electroreceptors competitor 20 Dances with 53 Red-white-and­chairs blue inits. 21 Rhinestone 56 Their initials can feature be found 22 Gooey stuff consecutively in 23 Co. that offers 16-, 24-and I.M.'s 42-Across 24 It usually starts 59 Diner sign "How many ...?" 60 1978 Peace 31 Puts out of work Nobelist • 32 Like "Green 61 Some mayhem Acres" 62 Common title 33 Bushy 'do 63 It may be 36 Appear skipped 37 Glass ingredient 64 Fair : 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..-+:::+:~+:-:-! 
.:+:+-::;;.fii!IIIIP!I.-...-....:::+.:+.:-8 
=+=+-=+-=+-:-""'!"'P!'"'-=+-=-1=11=1 1-af-;:;t-tt;;.._ 
DpWN 1 "Good one!" 2 Have a 
hankering 3 Floor it, with "out" 4 Long-eared 
equine 5 Take in 6D 7 Soft seat 8 There are two 
in a loaf 9 Part of an empire up to 
1991: Abbr. 10 Crude group? 11 Send packing 12 Suffix with slug 15 Win in 
(triumph easily) 17" Amore" 18 "What 
BelieveS" (Doobie Brothers hit) 
22 Classic 1954 sci-fi film 23 Comet competitor 24 Telephone book, essentially 25 fixe 26 Flash of light 27 Husband of Bathsheba 28 Slow times 29 City of Brittany 30 Violinist Zimbalist 34 Fury, 35 Straw in the 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital1 -source· of information oh t people and events it)' the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 


WILLSHORTZ 

or visual everything!"41 New England 
50 "Dang!" 55 Concerning

catch 51 Make over 57 Ltr. addenda 43 A de Mille 
52 "-,-example 58 "But I heard him 44 Set off exclaim, _ .. .'' 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of .Su,nday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytim,es.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Make .checks payable to: .e.._. and mail to: 
,. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HpROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIF.S BORN ON Till~ DAY: Lindsay Price. 21.J; Jan inc Turner, 43; Peter [luck, 49;. Tom !luke, ,52 · · 
Happy Birthday! Times are changing and you have to keep up. Uc progressive. the lirst to·try 11ew methods, ways of doing things ur even a nc;w lil\:style. Set a f?O~I ~hat you've h~-cn saying you arc. going to achieve, and plan y{lllr strateg). flus IS the year to'do what you say. Your numhcrs arc 10, 17. 23,,31. 39,45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will blow everyone away with the powerful 
way you take_ charge. You will have th.: chance to start smucthing new, and it 
is essential ~1at you promot.: it. It's time to rebuild and st.:p hack into the fast 
lane. ••u · 
TAI)RUS (Aprii20-May 20): Not everyone will understand what)'QU <!rc tl)·ing 
to do. In fact, someone is likely to stand in your way. Don't neglect what's 
important because you arc spending too much time with one person. You can1t 
let your responsibilities slip. ** · 
GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): You have everything and everyont: under control. 
so make your move and get what you want. A new look or way of doing things 
will bring you compliments. You can make a career move or position yourself 
for a promotion. **••• 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't get all worked up over nothing. You will 
take things the wrong way. Take a moment to do something nice for yourself. 
A partnership may need an adjustment --show greater understanding. ••• 
LF.O (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll stop at nothing, and that's exactly why you will 
get what you want. Your hold actions and good ideas will show everyone you 
have something worthwhile to offer. Conlidcncc will make your day. ••• 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Don't take on so much that you may fall short. Too 
much, too fast can result in a situation that will leave you feeling worried aho1.11 
your future. Don't expect anyone to ct\me to the rescue.••• 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take on whatever you want. You will mastor 
whatever you try and prove how capable you arc to those waiting for you to tail. 
If you want to ask for something, now is the time to do it. ••••~ 
SCO!li'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): It will he dillicult for you to keep things in 
perspective today. Don't let anyone upset you. I lis or her comments will not he 
based on tact. Concentrate on a creative project, and ignore anyone trying t(l 
sabotage you. • • 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-J>cc. 21): You·really need to get away. Changes a1 
home may not he your idea of a good time, hut you may he plca~antly surprisci:l 
how you feel ahout the end results. • • •• . 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Someone you have known for a long time 
may help you out financially. An older relative may he contused and unable to 
make a decision tor him-or herself. A day trip may help you sort out important 
lamily issues. ••• .. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Someone you respect will make you think twice 
ahout your personal lile. A look at what you have done in the past, where you 
are now and where you want to he is necessary if you want to make your life 
better. ••• 

I'ISCES (Feb. 19-March 211): Once you realize that change is actually a good 
thing, you will lind it much easier to get things done. Nothing is forever. and 
with that in mind, you should be able to open up to new people and new 
surroundings. • • • 

Birthday Baby: You arc emotional, caring and eager to pitch in and help. You 
are a crusader with leadership qualities --industrious, intuitive and intent on 
doing what's right. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 : 

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
-..... -............................ "'.'" 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, December 7, 2005 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Sweet spot 
Confident ND squad fears no one in Texas 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
When the sixth-seeded Irish 

head to College Station, Texas 
later this week for their 
Friday Sweet 16 match 
against · 11th-seeded 
Wisconsin (25-6), they'll be 
loose and confident -cer­
tainly not intimidated by the 
team that eliminated them in 
the second round of last 
year's tournament. 
"It comes from the wins that 

we have," Irish coach Debbie 
see BADGERS/page 25 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team faces tough in-state showdown 

By KEVIN BRENNAN Sporrs Wri rer 
No. 10 Notre Dame (6-0) will take its undefeated record on the road tonight to face No. 20 Purdue (4-2) at 7 p.m. at the Mackey Arena in West Lafayette. 
Notre Dame assistant head coach Coquese Washington said her team is excited to square off with one of its top rivals, but acknowledged the Irish must be prepared for a very difficult game. 
"This is one of our biggest rivals. We always have very good games," Washington said. 
"It's going to be a tough chal­lenge for us to go down there and play a ranked Big Ten 6pponent in their place." 
The Irish might be with(JUt head coach Muffet McGraw again tonight. McGraw has missed the past two games with an undisclosed illness. Washington, who has served as head coach in McGraw's absence, said Monday that M~Graw i~ day-to-da~. , 
There s no questiOns she s getting better. It's just a matter of her getting her strength up and being able to handle the rigors of coaching," Washington 
see PURDUE/page 26 

----------------------~ 
page 28 
HOCKEY 
Irish snap road streak in victory 
Trick's goal lifts team over Minnesota State 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
It was Irish trickery at its finest. After two blown leads, Chris Trick's goal gave the 
team a 3-2 victory over 
Minnesota S t a t e Tuesday to end its road losing streak that dated back to last season. 
T r i c k pocketed the 

lone Irish Trick e v e n ­strength, and winning, goal with :09 left in the game to help Notre Dame match last 
season's win total of f'ive, boosting its overall record to 5-9-1. The last-second victory erased a 17-game road win­less streak (0-15-2) for the Irish that dated to Nov. 26, 2004 when the Irish beat Alaska-Fairbanks by an iden­tical 3-2 score. 
"Maybe the only way to get over that hump is to get out of that kind of situation," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said of taking the season's first road game in the last sec­onds. "We played the way we 
see TRICK/page 24 

fENCING 
Tean1 has high hopes for USFA tournament 
By MIKE GILLOON SportS Editor 
Notre Dame's best fencers will venture out of the realm of colle­giate competition this weekend when they travel to Pittsburgh for the United States Fencing Association (USFA) North American Cup. 
The meet, beginning Friday at 10 a.m. at the Lawrence Convention Center, features a field of the top national competi­tors looking for a spot on the USFA national team. 
"This tournament is very important because they will fence against the best in America," Notre Dame coach Janusz Bednarski said. "It is a very high class tournament. It's a step up in their experience." 
Since the tournament is run by the USFA and not the NCAA, Irish fencers have to pay their own way and are competing as indi­
see FENCING/page 25 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish looking to roll Tide 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame let a close home game slip away on Saturday, and now the Irish turn around to play No. 22 Alabama on the road in their first-ever trip to Tuscaloosa, Ala. 
When the teams face tonight at 7 p.m. EST (ESPN) in a renovated Coleman Coliseum, Notre Dame (2-2) will continue its quest to 
see BAMA/ page 26 


Cl) SMC BASKETBAll 
NFL 
. NFL 

PGA 
NCAA FOOTBAlL 
NBA 
w 
Adrian at Saint 
NFL players visit 

Colts face tough 
Woods takes 
Vince Young is 
Lakers 111


1--u z Mary's 
challenge in Jags 
Player of the Year 
Katrma victim 

back in Pasadena 
Milwaukee 92 
Today, 7:30 p.m.
::5 
Members of the Saints 

The undefeated Colts 
Woods swept the 
The Texas star has 
The Lakers' Kobe
~ 
and Texans spent the 

won't catch a break 
three major awards of
The Belles hope to get 

made national headlines 
Bryant scored 33 points
cz: 
day with a third-grade
back on track today 

against Jacksonville this 
golf for the fifth time in 
for his outstanding play 
in a blowout victory 
refugee in Houston. 

week. 
his career. 

a. ~ againsthe Bulldogs. 
this season. 
over the Bucks. 

Cl) page 24 
page 23 
page 22 
page 21 

page 20 
page 18 



