
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Off-campus housing options prompt choices, risks 
Students deal with reality of paying, losing security deposits 
By LISA SCHULTZ News Writer 
While Notre Dame prides itst-~lf on having 80 per­cent of its students living on campus, one-(il'th of tlw population n•sides oil' campus, adding responsi­bilities for tho studonts who livo thoro. 
Orw of these students, Lori Clark, a 2005 Notre Damn graduate, said she felt "cheated" after her o(l'-campus nxpt~rienco. 
Bnfore moving into the College Park apartment complex on Bulla Hoad last fall, Clark said previous rnsidnnts warned her that students who leased from tho eomplnx were "notorious for not getting lthoir security I deposit back." 
But Clark and her throe roommates put down a $955 sncurity deposit in spring 2003, a require­nwnt to ront an apartment. When she moved out two ynars later, College Park returned $177.99 of 
see DEPOSITS/page 4 

GEOFF MATTESONfThe Observer 
Graduate Lori Clark said she paid for damages she didn't cause In her unit's common area at College Park, above. 
Katrina blatne questions posed at forum 

By KATIE PERRY Assistant News Editor 
Since Hurricane Katrina made landlhll in New Orleans on Aug. 29, a surge of resnntment has risen nearly as high as the pf1rilous watnrs that brnached the city's levee system and washed away the lives of those who called tho region home. 
This resentment was addressed at llesburgh Library's Carey Auditorium at Notre Dame Tuesday as part of a two-part series of panel discussions sponsored by the Black Law Student.<; Association (BLSA) in conjunction with the Notrn Dame Law School. 
The discussion, titled "An American Tragedy: Katrina in Focus," was an open forum centerod on sparking dialO!-,'Ue about the socio­logieal, organizational and environ­mental causes for the widespread nature of the tragndy. 
Panelists were diverse in their areas of expertise and focus, but they agreed that while Mother Nature 
NDSP releases new campus crime report 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
Notrn Damn Seeurity/Police (NI>SP) rnleasnd the University's most rneent campus crime roport last Thursday, dntailing an incrnasn in burglary and larenny on t:arnpus since 2002. 
NI>SP o!lidals tmcouragnd tho University community in an e­mail to look through tho collec­tion of statistics detailing criminal activity, including all violations that occurred on-campus from 2002-2004. 
The rnport presents data from eaeh of the years in the areas of burglary, larceny, sex offenses, liquor law arrests and drug law arrests, as well as several other types of 1:rime, associate director of NDSP Philip Johnson said. 
There is consistency in most of thn categories lrom year to year, hut tho numbers for burglary and larceny saw thn greatest incrnase. 
Aceording to the NDSP crime statistics, 43 reports of burglary were recorded in 2002, 49 in 
see NDSP/page 8 could not be controlled, preemptive actions in the days, months and even years before disaster was in the hands of the local, state and foderal governments. 
"It's not a question of a lack of authority," visiting assistant Jaw pro­lessor Jennifer Mason said. "The rnal problem was in the practice, the operational and the personnel lev­els." 
Mason said there are two aspects to consider when dealing with the placement of blame -first, how clear, on paper, the govemmental allocation of authority was stated; and second, how in practice the loeal. state and lic1deral govemments exer­cised this allocation ofauthority. 
"On papor tho lines of authority are )clear]." she said. "Failures wore at the operationa·l level -not at the lines of authority." 

Mason said Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco took nearly all the nocessary precautions to limit impending destruction, including 
see KATRINA/page 6 

Saint Mary's seniors enjoy on-campus living arrangemen ts 
By SARAH VOSS News Writer 
Senior Lauren Siegel did not considnr living oil' campus after Saint Mary's opened Annunciata I tall, the fourth floor housing area in Jloly Cross Jlall snt apart for seniors only. 
"It's nice to be surrounded by people who are all at t?e same po,~nt in lite," she said. "It's quieter and easwr to study. 
Siegel said she loves the feeling of "a soparatn togetherness" that senior halls have with the rnst of campus. 
As the College continues to expand on-campus 
-housing, many Saint Mary's seniors am choosing not to move to one of the popular oll'-eampus housing complexes, like Turtle Creek, Collngn Park or Castle Point. Instead, many prefer Opus llall and Annunciata Hall, which are exelusively available to 
see HOUSING/page 6 

College adds ne-w fihntninor 
By MOLLY LAMPING 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's women now have one more option to choose from when selecting an arna of study or picking up an extra elass: film studies. 
The minor, which was approved by the Collngn's Administrative Council in tlw spring of 2005, is still in the planning stages. Whiln no cours­es are oll'ernd this sernnstnr, Ted Billy, professor of English at Saint Mary's and a kny playor in the developmnnt of the film studies program, hopes to havn courses ready in thn spring, 
"We recognized that lilm was tho one major art form in tlw 20th and 21st c1m tu rios that was not addressed in any sys­tematic way by tho current cur­riculum at Saint Mary's College," Billy said of the rea­soning behind the development of tho minor. "Our students gen­erally love to see !ilms and to respond to them, but wn believed that tlwy nended somn guidance with regard to how to 'rnad' a film as a text." 
In order to teach students how to think about lilm in this man­ner, the College will offer mandatory class requirenwnts in three major cat1~gories: Film lntnrpretation and Critieism. The Political Economy of Films and Film ProductionNisual Art. 
Modelod al'tnr thn suct:nssful Women's Studies Program and Justiee Ed ueation Program at Saint Mary's, the Film Studies Program plans to o(l'er 14 cours­es, spanning the three major areas of the discipline. 
see MINOR/page 8 

Wednesday, October 5, 2005 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
. 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bathroon1 duty 
My mom's greatest fear of her youngest daughter going to college had nothing to do with homesickness, falling behind in school, or finding new friends -it was that I would refuse to use pub­lic bathrooms. To give you an idea Lisa Schultz of how much I truly hate the con­cept of community News toilet<;, consider Production this: in grade Editor school, Mom would pick me up at 3 p.m., run me home to go and change, and return me back to school for volley­ball practice. 
Even though public bathrooms still gross me out on a daily basis, it is not fair to lump all campus toilets together. Some are cleaner than I keep my bath­room at home, while others are more rancid than dog kennels. After a year of research, here are the Notre Dame bathroom superlatives. 
Most worth the walk across campus: 
Hammes Bookstore. There's a reason this is the second biggest tourist site in the state of Indiana, and it's not the new Popeyeleprechaun. 
Most reverent: Main Building. I actual­ly saw someone drying off the counter with the towel they'd just used to dry their hands yesterday. High school sen­iors touring campus should be informed that their residence halls' bathrooms will look nothing like this. 
Most awkward: Notre Dame Stadium. Why are all the flush handles crooked? 
Most likely to creep you out past dark: 
Basement of SDH. Any female member of The Observer staff will vouch that you'd almost rather drip dr¥ than con­tinue freaking out over the possibility of someone breaking into the window­the basement window. Also, although not really contributing to its creepiness, this location attempts masking the unavoidable public bathroom aroma with a cinnamon overload. 
Most popular: CoMo. Although the bathrooms are identical on every floor, they only get cleaner as you go upstairs. Plus they never run out of paper towels. 
Most likely to be called a whore: 
DeBartolo. Used often, utterly forget­table and always dirty. 
Most Old School: split: O'Shag and The Rock. O'Shag has archaic fixtures, including a mystery closed valve on the sink in the individual female bathroom. The Rock's bathrooms get the title for sheer age, but the first floor bathroom is just one giant fart. Therefore, O'Shag defmitely scores more points for allow­ing users to inhale while in the com­mode. 
Most desperate for attention: 
LaFortune. A male source wishing to remain nameless for knowingly break­ing male bathroom code informs me that there has been a penny in the mid­dle urinal of the basement level since the beginning of this semester. Clean the place. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd. edu 
· The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mis­take, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU LIKE TO SPEND ALL FOUR YEARS LIVING ON CAMPUS? 





Ben Hechler Paul Schlueter Michael O'Connor Susan Bigelow Richard Pineda, Jr. Marcus Gatto 


freshman  freshman  sophomore  
Alumni  Zahm  Carroll  
"Yes, it seems  "Heck yes! I like  ·"Heck yes,  
like it would be  living in  because of  
nice to live with  HOUSE. Come  Carroll's  
all ofour  on.  jacuzzis,  
friends from the  water slides  
dorm instead of  and petting  
moving off  zoo.  
campus."  

freshman  freshman  freshman  
Badin  Morrissey  O'Neill  
"I would  "Yes, I would  "Sure I would. I  
definitely live in  stay in my  really have  
my dorm all  dorm because  nowhere better  
four years. It's  you become  to go and our  
right across  familiar with  basement looks  
from CoMo and  the people  like a fallout  
I love CoMo!"  there. Plus, I'm  shelter."  
close to SDH. "  


OFFBEAT 
Alleged naked burglar asks for shorts 
COTTONWOOD, Ariz. -A man accused of trying to bur­glarize a home while naked Tuesday stopped in mid­escape to ask the victim for a pair of shorts, a sheriff's spokeswoman said. 
The victim threw the shorts to the accused burglar, who then fled, said Susan Quayle, a spokeswoman for the Yavapai County Sheriff's Department. 
Nickos George Kopsaftis was later arrested next door, apparently while trying to steal a car, Quayle said. "He was wearing the shorts that were donated to him," she said. 
Quayle said a man house­sitting for his father found Kopsaftis standing naked in an upstairs room holding two rifles belonging to the home­owner. 
The victim told sheriff's deputies that he got the rifles away from the man, who ran away, but not before stopping outside to ask for clothes, Quayle said. 
Cops: student passes out in college office 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Dude, you just didn't pass out on campus. You passed out in the college president's office. 
A University of Buffalo stu­dent is likely enduring razz­ing after campus police said he was found passed out in the president's office over the weekend. 
Officials at the campus told The Buffalo News that a stu­dent headed home after a night of drinking got into the president's suite early Saturday morning after the overnight cleaning crew left the door ajar. 
Campus police say the cleaner returned a few min­utes and found the student lying in the office's reception area. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

..... 
oct 
(.) 


0 
...I 
LOW 65 LOW 55 LOW 35 LOW 37 

IN BRIEF 

The women's volleyball team will take on Valparaiso in the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. today. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) will present Arthur Kopit's "Wings" today to Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 
p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
"The Long Reach of African American Poetics," a mini-con­ference and panel discussion celebrating the influence of African American cadences and verse, will be held at 2 
p.m. Thursday in Room 100­104 of McKenna Hall. 
The 13th annual American Cancer Society Great Lakes Symposium will be held Friday from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. at McKenna Hall. Titled "Cellular and Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer," the event is open to the public. 
Bernd Sturmfels, professor of mathematics and computer science at the University of California at Berkeley, will give a lecture titled "Algebraic Statistics for Computational Biology" at 5:30 p.m. Friday in Hayes-Healy Hall. 
Jose Miguel Insulza, secre­tary general of the Organization of American States, will be the keynote speaker at a conference titled "Democratic Governance in Latin America" 4:45 p.m. Friday in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 60 LOW 43 
Atlanta 80 I 66 Boston 78 I 60 Chicago 78 I 43 Denver 56 I 33 Houston 90 I 68 Los Angeles 901 60 Minneapolis 54 1 31 New York 78 I 66 Philadelphia 78 I 66 Phoenix 99 I 74 Seattle 60 I 47 St. Louis 82 I 50 Tampa 88 I 74 Washington 80 1 64 
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Nun discusses free trade 
College holds lecture on the importance offair trade, international justice 
By KATIE KOHLER News Writer 
llndnr tho tradn agmmnnnL'i set by North Anwrican Free Trade Agr<H~nwnt INAFTAJ. businesses havn bonn sucenssful in suing <:ountries ovnr trade rnstrictions, a hotly-dnbatml topie dis<:ussed Tuesday by Sister Mary Turgi, direetor of thn Congrngants .Justice Committnn fi1r tho Sisters of tlw lloly Cross. 
"That is a scary thing when a husinnss can have tho pownr to sun a national government," Turgi said. 
I lor lndum, which focused on tlw irnport.ancn of fair trade and justien issues involving intnrna­tional rotations, W<L'' pros<mted by Saint Mary's Campus Ministry as the second part in the College's snries thernnd "What difrerence dons it make'?" 
Tho pnwious lectur<l, titled "Choices that Affect the Environment and our Faith," lilcusnd on hnalth earn and envi­ronmental issues. 
Turgi explained the difl'erence bntwmm free and fair tradn ­f'rne tradn lilt'> all impndimnnt'i on tradn, which could indude envi­ronmental laws, human rights and labor laws, and laws that protnet tho Earth. 
"lltl allows corporations and busirHlSSilS to opmatn however thny want, without restrictions," shn said of free tradn. 
According to statistics from tho World Bank, fmo trade has a nng­alive impact on the poorest 40 percm1t of the world and only bmwliL'> the well-oil'. Turgi said. 
Turgi tied in the goal of the Sisters of' the I loly Cross' goals for f'air trade and said that the sisters are interested in the global involvement in the f'air trade movement through education and example. 
"There is no coincidence that the same problems lof trade injustieel are happening on each continent," Turgi said. 
Allor Turgi g<ivo her analytical point of view, she introduced Sister Mary Tiernan, who spent several years working with poor farmers in Brazil for 26 years. 
She began by giving a personal anecdote on the price difference of Coca-Cola in Brazil versus that of the United States. 
"I loarned that when the prod­uct is cheaper, it is not always the best option. It just means that the people who made it are getting nothing," Tiernan said. 'They [the workers! do the same work, have the same risks, have the same desires to raise their children, but their salaries are proportionally much smaller in the Southern Ilemisphere of the globe." 
She said she focused on "the injustice of the global economic system ... and the more analytical point of view of trade." 
Through education of these landless laborers, they were bet­ter able to recognize the global problem and seek the guidance to learn how to negotiate, transport their goods to a fair market and package their goods efiiciently, she said. 
Tiernan showed pictures of the farmers in her village to illustrate the extreme poverty the workers face still today. 
·nornan and Turgi proceeded to show a short video sponsored by Equal ExchangH, a fair trade cor­poration. Equal Exchange, which began in 1986 as the first compa­ny to adopt fair trade standards in America, is currently the lead­ing producer of fair trade brand coffee in the world. Equal Exchange produces organic, high quality products for a slightly higher price, but benefits the workers rather than exploits them. Equal Exchange al<;o prom­ises to honor minimum price for a product according to the world market, the video said. 
The video showed that a small village in Nicaragua was able to receive relief from poverty by sell­ing their products to Equal Exchange in a time characterized as "the best of times for coffee, but the worst of time for farm­ers." 
After the video, Turgi said that it is important to buy fair trade products, noting that Catholics spend over $5 billion a year on coffee. 
"If even a fraction of Catholics switched to fair trade coffee, think of the impact it would have on people's lives," she said. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO l@saintmarys.edu 
Funds granted to study religion in A111erica 
National Endowment for the Humanities awards ND $1 million for three-year program 
Special to the Observer 

The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEil) has awarded a $1 million grant to the University for a new pro­gram dedicated to examining the role of 
religion in American public life. 
The grant will be administered over a three­year period and must be 


matched by Zuckert an additional $3 million from other sources, providing a permanent $4 mil­lion endowment for the new pro­gram. 
"The aim of the new program is to provide scholarly depth and breadth -both historical and philosophical -to issues sur­rounding the different visions of religion in Arnnrican politics," said Miehael Zucknrt, tho Nancy Hooves Dreux Profnssor of' Political Sdencn and director of' the nnw program. 
"This program is very wnll suitnd to Notre Damn's mission and its strnngths. Wn can ofl'nr the depth of' talnnt and thn snri­ousness of purposn to makn this program a success." 
Titled "Hnligion in Anwrican Life," the program is dnsignnd to elevate the lnvel of public rlis­eoursn on thn roln of rnligion in American dnmoeraey through scholarly activitins and outrnach programs, Zuckert said. It will be implementnd in 2006. 
The h'l"ant will fund an annual leeture series and intnrdisdpli­nary faculty seminars, postdoc­toral teaching fellowships, dis­sertation fellowships, graduatn student stipends, eonfernnces and an annual sumnwr seminar for journalists. 
or a pool or 36 applicants, Notre Dame was one of seven institutions awarded a challenge grant from the NEll. 
Created in 1965, the NEil is an independent federal agency funding projects that promote excellence in the humanities and convey lessons of history to all Americans. 


ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 5, 2005 
you even have an apartment," said junior Ray Jones, a second­

Deposits 
year resident of Turtle Creek. 

continued from page 1 Turtle Creek charges $150 per person for the security deposit their deposit, she said. regardless of how many people 
Gail Clark, Lori's mother, faxed are living in a unit, LaMore said. The Observer the deposit settle­"Basically, you forgo all rights ment dated June 29, 2005. Both to that money once you hand it mother and daughter took issue over," Jones said. "There are way with two items on the settlement too many things that can go awry relating to "Cleaning & throughout the course of the Damages." school year, and the inspection at 
"We were charged $25 an hour the end of the year will always for cleaning fees for seven hours turn up something." when I know other places had In addition to paying a security crews charging $15," Lori Clark deposit, Castle Point has leesees said. sign a three-page "community 
While Lori Clark knew they rules and regulations addendum would pay for a cleaning crew to to the lease agreement" which come in, she said she cleaned the spells out any responsibilities the place herself before moving out, occupant has not addressed in so the amount that was left to do the leasing agreement, Logan could not have amounted to said. seven hours of work. Also, she Brian Vieth, a junior living in compared what she was paid to Castle Point, said he has a hard what her sister, who lived in copy of his security deposit policy. Castle Point, paid when she He summarized the policy by moved out the same year. saying that damage "which is 
"If there are !cleaning] compa­obviously subjective to manage­nies half as cheap, they should be ment's behavior" and eviction using those," Lori Clark said. would constitute losing the secu­
Lori Clark said there was also a rity deposit. problem with a charge of The type of scenario that would $112.31 for "Unpaid cause a renter to Utilities." Upon dis-not get his deposit eussion with College back is the differ-Park and South ence between Bend Water Works, 'The freedom of "common sense Lori Clark discov­and extrava­
being off-campus 
ered that the charge gance," Logan
far outweighed the 
was for February said. 2003 use, a year chance that "For example, and half prior to her normal nail holes
management could 
residency. are okay, but
possibly hold back 
Lori Clark said holes from a dart College Park ulti­some ofmy board are not," mately told her to [deposit]. " Logan said. contact the water At Turtle Creek, company to resolve any damages
Ray Jones
the issue. prior to move-in 
Both Lori and Gail junior will be addressed. Clark have spoken "Every resident with College Park has a move-in management, but no inspection form," adjustments have been made to LaMore said. "Students record the deposit settlement. College any damages so when it comes Park management did not return time for them to move out, they multiple phone calls from The are not charged for damages Observer. they did not cause. We hope [the 
end of the year inspection form] Other apartment complexes comes back completely blank." 
Local apartment complexes Behavior can be reason for that lease to students have their eviction and thus a loss of the own policies, but the timeline of security deposit. renting a unit is relatively stan­"We tell our renters that every­dard. one has a peaceable right to their 
The first step to living off cam­home at all times," Logan said. pus is to fill out a housing appli­cation, said Kristy Nozykowski, Rental housing property manager at Clover Collecting security deposits is Hidge Apartments on Irish Way. not unique to apartment com­
At Castle Point, on Cleveland plexes. Hoad, students first receive a Mark Kramer, managing mem­pamphlet describing the different ber of Kramer Properties, for­units available, said Judy Logan, merly Domus Properties, said he property manager. They then fill charges each student $500 for out a "guest card," which gives the security deposit. Castle Point an idea of the stu­Students have until the dents' needs. December prior to the leasing 
Students also receive a rate let­year to back out of the lease ter that breaks down the prices without losing money, said of each type of apartment, all of Kramer, who has rented houses which are subject to change. in South Bend solely to students Lastly, students get a packet that since 1989. includes the application. Within "lA deposit must be paid] the that application, there is a seven­moment you want the house to page lease agreement that be taken off the list and identified requires a cosigner signature, as yours," said senior Brian Logan said. James, who rents from Kramer 
At Clover Hidge, if one's appli­Properties. "If you don't put the cation goes through, a deposit is deposit down, the house is still required to be placed onto the available for everyone else." wait list. There is no penalty for Kramer said he doesn't look to declining housing when you are make money off security still on the wait list, Nozykowski deposits. said. "Security deposits are really 
On the other hand, being on not a profit source for us," the wait list at Turtle Creek -Kramer said. "We want students located on Turtle Creek Drive -to get their deposit back because means one is guaranteed an there's less work for us for the apartment, but no address is following year." assigned at that point, said Josh Similar to the move-in inspec­LaMore, Turtle · Creek tion form at Turtle Creek, Apartments commllnity manager. Kramer conducts a walk-thru at 
LaMore said students have 72 each house with the students so hours to cancel once paperwork that "there's a list of flaws stu­is turned in. dents won't be charged for." 
"The security deposit has to be Kramer also gives leesees a turned in with the lease before handbook that "spells out what to 

Lafayette Apartments are an Mary's students. 
do [when moving out] so there's no question." 
He said students get about 75­80 percent of their deposit returned on average. But Kramer Properties is not the only compa­ny requiring security deposits for student houses. 
"Any time you rent a house, you always have to pay a housing deposit," said senior Meghan Reagan, who rents a house from Lafayette Apartments. "It's not just a thing for student housing." 
Reagan said she paid $218 for her security deposit. 

"IIalf ofit had to be paid at the time we signed the lease," Reagan said. "The remainder was due when we moved in." 
The amount of money students pay for security deposits depends on who they lease from. · 
"We had to pay"a deposit equal to one month's rent," said senior Marty Mooney, whose landlord is Greg Anderson of Anderson ND Rentals. "[It] was due when I signed the lease, about a year and a half before we moved in." 
Reagan said the security 
option for off-campus housing for Notre Dame and Saint 
deposit naturally works in favor of the landlord. 
"Any damage to the house other than 'natural wear and tear' !would cause us to not get our deposit back], so it's pretty debatable," Reagan said. 
Words of advice 

Even though paying security deposits does not deter Notre Dame students from living off­campus, it often becomes an issue when moving out. 
"You are going to pay a securi­ty deposit no matter where you live if you're not buying the prop­erty," Jones said. "For me, the freedom of being ofT-campus far outweighed the chance that man­agement could possibly hold back some of my [deposit]." 
In light of her experience, Lori Clark suggests making copies of all contracts and using e-mail so all communication is clearly dated. 
She also said students should examine their contracts closely. "People should be warned they'll be charged for their neigh­
bors' damages because it's some­thing you don't think about," Clark said. 
She said her apartment unit had to pay $105 to patch a hole in the stairwell drywall caused by som1mne else's party. 
Henters said it is possible for students to get their security deposit returned. 
"Ask questions about utilities, when the rent is due, late pay­ment structure and the big rent," LaMore said. 
Nozykowski suggests students use Clover Hidge's auto-rent pro­gram so monthly payments are not late .. 
With Castle Point's most popu­lar apartment choice for students -the Matterhorn -students should ideally have all paper­work n.Jed the Christmas prior to the fall they want to move in, Logan said. 
"Sophomores should start look­ing soon [for their senior year]." Kramer said. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 

ir cut, and grabLaFortune nter! 

Stop Shopping I 
monthly tuition board payments, 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
021 Lafortune Student Center 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVER'SWJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
First parliamentary elections end 
KABUL, Afghanistan -Powerful war­lords, a former Taliban commander and womrm's activists were among the fron­trunners as voto counting drnw to a close Tuesday in Afghanistan's rirst parliamen­tary nlnetions in morn than 30 years. 
Preliminary results will be announced starting Wednesday or Thursday and in phases, in the nvent of unrest, officials said. Losing candidates are expected to bombard election authorities with com­plaints and aeeusations of cheating. Final enrtif'ied rnsults are due Oct. 22. 
Suspected Taliban insurgents who failed to stop 6.H million Afghans from voting Sept. I H resumed attaeks this wnok. A bomb at a Afghan-Pakistan bordor cross­ing Tuesday killed three people-a woman and two boys -and wounded 20 others. 
EU considers Turkish membership 
I.UXEMBOUH(; -The European Union opmwd mmnhnrship talks with Turkey early Tunsday -a historic first step that would transform thn bloc by taking in a prndomi­nantly Muslim nation and expanding its bordnrs to Asia and thn Middle East. 
Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul llPw late Monday night to Luxembourg for a lat1~-night enrnrnony to formally open entry talks. following an agrnnnwnt reaehnd after two dramatic days of diplomacy that includ­nd strong U.S. lobbying for Turkey's eandi­dacy. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

New kidney-swap program studied 
Cl IICAC;o -Hnsnardwrs are reporting a high sucenss ratn for a novel kidney-swap program that proponents say could someday ease the nation's shortagn of transplant organs. 
Most kidnny transplants usn organs taken from cadavnrs. But doctors prefer using organs from live donors. because the success ratns aro higher. 
In a live-donor pradieo used inernasingly in tho U.S. over the past few years. a patient who nnods a kidney is matdwd up with a compatihln stranger; in return, tho pationt must linn up a friend or rnlative willing to donate an organ to a stranger, too. 
Tlw praetien is partieularly useful in 1:ases wlwrn a kidnny pationt's l'rim1ds or rolatives aro willing to donato an organ to their loved orw but are not a suitable match. 
In tho first U.S. sueeoss-rate study of what arn 1:allnd "kidnoy paired donations," .Johns llopkins University researchers tracked 22 patilmts who ree1~ived kidnoys from living st.rangnrs. 
or thn 22 transplants. only one failed, hoeause of clotting problnms unrelated to organ rt~jiH:tion. That patient eventually rneoivml a kidney from a dnad donor. Four patinnts also had treatabln immune-systmn rnaetions. Thorn worn no deaths. 

NASA proposes theory for damage 
CAPt·: CANAVJ.:IV\1.. Fla. -Workers may have aeddnntally n1t or erushml tim sndion of fi1am that brokn on· Discovery's l'uol tank during its laund1 two months a).{o -a mishap that threat­mwd tlw safi~ty of tlw <L<;tronauL'> and grounded tho shuttln llent. 
That is thn loading theory li1r the eauso bohind Uw disturbing loss of foam insulation that east a doud ovor NASA's rnturn to spaeo, said Wayne I lain. tho •wwly appoint11d manager of thn spae11 shutth~ program. 
In a wide-ranging intnrvinw with Thn i\ssodatnd Pn~ss on Tuosday. I lain said the shut­tle will not fly again until thn foam insulation problnm is rnsolvnd -no sooner than spring. 

Mayor lays off government workers 
Nt·:W OHLI\i\NS-Mayor Hay Nagin said Tw~sday the dty is laying oil" as many IL<; 3,000 employnes -or about half its workforce ­hneause of thn linancial damage inflicted on Nnw Orlnans by llurrkann Katrina. 
Nagin announ1:nd with "!-,trnat sadness" that hn had bnnn unabl11 to find th11 money to keep the workers on thn payroll. 

Bush reaffirllls Supreme Court choice 
President fights conservative criticism of his decision in news conference 
Associated Press 

WAS II I N G T 0 N­... 
President Bush pushed back against suggestions by some skeptical Hepublicans that llarriet Miers was not conservative enough, insisting on Tuesday that his nominee to the Supreme Court shares his strict-construc­tionist views. 
"I know her heart," Bush told a Hose Garden news conference. "ller philoso­phy won't change." 
As his White House counsel made the rounds of Senate offices, Bush roached out to his conser­vative supporters with words of reassurance. 
"I hope they're listen­ing." said the president as he worked to appease con­snrvativns without giving new ammunition to Dnmoerats. 
Some commentators and activists have expressed open disappointment with Bush's seloetion of Miers, citing her lack of a judicial track record and com­plaining that Bush had passed over more promi­nent. proven conserva­tives. 

Bush suggested he would not release documents relating to her work at the White House, saying it was "important that WH main­tain executive privilege." even as Democrats chairman of the Judiciary reeord," Brownback said. Bush. made a similar demanded more informa­Committee. "She's going to In his 55-minute news claim about Clarence tion on her role in admin­basically do what the pres­conference, Bush repeat­Thomas -and was derid­istration decisions. lie ident thinks she should edly implied that eonsnrva­ed for it-while dnfending urged Democrats to give and that is be a strict con­tives should trust his judg­his controversial Supreme her a chance to nxplain structionist." ment in picking Miers to Court pick in 199 I. her views of tho law and The term refers to jus­succeed the retiring Thomas was eonfirnwd 52­the Constitution at her tices who believe their role Sandra Day O'Connor. who 48. confirmation hearing. is to decide cases based on often was the swing vote Pressed on whether he 
In welcome news to tho a close reading of the on divisive social issues and Miers had ever dis­White llouse, Miers won Constitution rather than including abortion. cussed the court's 197:~ the unqualified support of ranging more widely in Asked point blank if Hoe v. Wade decision legal­one of tho Senate's top interpretation. Miers was the most quali­izing abortion, Bush said: eonservatives, Orrin Sen. Sam Brownback, H­fied person he eould find "Not to my rncollnetion ... " llateh, H-Utah. Kan., a strong abortion in the country for the high lie reiterated his own 
"A lot of my follow con­foe, said he was yet to be court. Bush said. "Yes, oth­opposition to abortion. but servatives are concerned, convinced. "I am not yet erwise I would not have said he had not asked any but they don't know her as confident that Ms. Miers put her on." judicial candidatns about I do," said llateh, a former has a proven track llis father, George II.W. the subject. 

SWITZERLAND 

WHO releases disease report 
Associated Press 

CENEVA-Chronic ailments sueh as heart disnase, cancer and diabetes will kill nearly 400 million people over the next 10 years and cost countrins like China and India hundreds of billions of dollars, a new report on tho world's health says. 
"The lives of far too many people in the world are being blighted and eut short by chronic diseases," said Lee Jong-Woo, tho director-general of the World Health Organization. 
lin was citing tho latest WHO report to draw attention to the increasing threat from diseases that can be prevented in part by healthier diets and giving up smok­ing. 
Until recent years, these chronic conditions were overshadowed by infeetious diseases like IllY/AIDS, though they cause far more deaths. Chronic, or noncommunicable dis­eases, account for three out of five deaths worldwide, the WllO says. 
The 128-page WHO report esti­mated that 39 million deaths from chronic diseases in the next 10 years ean be prevented through healthier lifestyles and relatively cheap medication, including 28 million in developing countries. 
The projections were based on surveys conducted in countries that have already implemenll~d measures to encourage healthinr habits. Exercise and better diets can help prevent 80 percent of premature cases of heart disease, 

str·okes and diabetes, tho report said. 
Although other studios have pre­dieted tho number of deaths from individual diseases. the WIIO report was the rirst to project tho toll from all major ehronie concli­tions. 
It was also the first to quantify the economic burdnn of treating such eonditions in individual eoun­tries. China eould spend $55H bil­lion treating heart disease, strokes and diabetes over tho next dneadn, tho study sai_d. Hussia could spend $303 billion and India $236 billion. 
"This is a preventable epidl~m­ie,"said Hobert Beaglehole. eo­author of the study. "We know what to do, we know how to do it, preventions are very cheap." 
------------~~·---------------~----~---------------------------------. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 5, 2005 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
Saint Mary's seniors. 
Nearly one year since its Oct.8, 2004 dedication, Opus Hall is cur­rently housing its second round of 72 seniors. The hall, which was designed with input from stu­dents, is fully furnished and includes both Internet and cable access. There is also a full kitchen, which includes a microwave, stove, dishwasher and refrigerator. There are 24 apartments in the building, bro­ken up into 12 doubles and 12 quads. 
Annunciata Hall currently hous-

Katrina 
continued from page 1 
declaring a state of emergency and requesting President Bush corroborate her declaration. These actions are established to trigger specific powers -such as federal aid -which can then be· used to prepare for disaster, she said. 
"When the scope of a disaster is so huge, it's the job of the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to step in," she said. "FEMA could and should have set up command centers for food, medicine and other [necessities]." 
Mason said Blanco requested help from other mobilized National Guard troops in Louisiana and requested addition­al troops from the President, but she delayed her request for troops from other states -a procrasti­nated action Mason said was "one of the things she did wrong." 
Even so, Mason said "virtually everything" Blanco did in the face of the approaching hurricane was correct and criticisms that say she failed to take the right steps are unfounded. 
"I believe the criticism aimed at FEMA is fair," Mason said. "For [former FEMA head] Michael Brown to say he didn't realize how dysfunctional Louisiana was is disingenuous at best." 
Notre Dame law professor Jay Tidmarsh admitted he had little expertise about "response or root causes," but said there are also es 50 seniors. The hall contains rooms ranging from singles to quads. The floor features a large break room with an overstuffed couch and big screen TV. Residents of Annunciata also have special access to a basement entrance that allows them to bypass the first floor lobby. 

Seniors on campus have noticed several benefits to living there. 
Senior Emily Fannon, a resident of Opus Hall, enjoys the flat fee of campus housing, as opposed to the month-to-month expenditures of off-campus living. 
"All of our expenses are cov­ered, so we never have to worry about paying the bills," Fannon said. 
Senior Mary Buehl, a resident 
historical explanations for certain aspects of the tragedy. 
Tidmarsh said the failure to fol­low through with policy helped plant the seeds for Katrina's racial and socioeconomic implications more than 50 years before the Category 4 storm slammed the Gulf Coast. 
"New Orleans had a segregated school system prior to [Brown vs. Board of Education in] 1954 ­not until 1960 did anything seri­ous about segregation in New Orleans begin to occur," he said. "All of four black children were allowed to leave their regular schools to go to predominantly white schools." 
Tidmarsh said due to its past record of segregation, and the subsequent racial divide, both poverty and race played into the inability of some people to flee New Orleans. 
"One of the things I think about is how it goes back to education," he said. "Everything I've under­stood is that the public school sys­tem in New Orleans wasn't extremely successful. Many issues trace back to an educational sys­tem that we ourselves are respon­sible for." 
Dr. Phillip Linden, a professor of theology at Xavier University of New Orleans, echoed Tidmarsh's recognition of historical implica­tions when dealing with the possi­ble causes for Katrina's conse­quences. 
Linden described a friend· and colleague who lived in New Orleans and had to be air-lifted from her home. She left behind her cats and a private library that she had accrued for many years, 
Celebrating the Influence of Afl'icuAmericu Cadences and 
6from 2-3:80 pm Panel Dlscuaaion In 100.1041c!ellll411all October 6at 1:80pm Poetry Baadint by ll.izabeth Alexander &latasha frethmy ;; 

of Opus Hall, agreed. "Not having to worry about util­ities is great," she said. 
Many seniors living on campus said that the locations of Opus and Annunciata allow them to stay involved with Saint Mary's activities. 
"It's nice to be able to use the campus services," Buehl said. "''m involved in the Education Club and it'd be difficult to do that if I had to drive." 
Fannon said her friends living off campus have a difficult time staying involved in the Saint Mary's community. And seniors living on campus said living on campus makes it was easier to manage classes. 
'Tm an art major, so I have to be on campus a lot," said senior Catherine Bradley, a resident of Opus Hall. "Living in Opus is help­ful because I can get from my room to class very quickly." 
Bradley was happy with her decision to live on campus during her senior year. 
'Tm glad I'm still a part of cam­pus," she said, adding that she has plenty of time to move into an apartment later in her life. 
Many residents of Opus and Annunciata Halls also said they feel safer than many of their off­campus friends. 
Despite many seniors moving off campus to lind greater free­dom, many senior hall residents said they have found the same thing living on campus. 
but Linden said even this doesn't previous wakeup calls," he said. compare to the sadness of poverty. Camacho said levies were 
"The tragedy of Katrina "insufficiently planned by the occurred a long time prior to the Army Corps of Engineers and [hurricane's landfall]," he said. "It insufficiently funded by the federal had an economical, sociological government." and political framework ... In my "The various levels of govern­view, this serves to reveal what's ment let down the people of New been concealed in inner-city Orleans through lack of past America." action ... A fair amount of damage 
Associate law professor could have been prevented by Alejandro Camacho, who empha­wiser policy choices," he said. sized the environmental facets of Camacho also cited wetland the issue, said the disaster was the destruction as a contributing fac­result of widespread ignorance to tor to Katrina's extensive damage. what was already obvious. Louisiana has one of the largest 
"Hather than thinking of this as expanses of coastal wetlands and a wakeup call, from an environ­marshes that, historically, worked mental perspective I see it as a as a natural buffer system in hur­consequence of people ignoring ricane situations. 
"The roommates here at Opus set up specific rules, so we have lots of freedom as to what hap­pens in our apartment," Fannon said. 
Notre Dame has no such senior housing area on campus, as all dorms house students from all four years. 
"I feel like Opus is the best of both worlds -a place of my own but much nicer than being off­campus," Buehl said. "Plus, I've noticed that my friends from Notre Dame are jealous of our apartments. 
"We have a place of our own to call home during senior year." 
Contact Sarah Voss at svossO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Camacho said ecosystem restoration plans in the late 1990s were never fully funded and the federal money granted was "not even enough to restore the levee system." 
"Thls wasn't incompetence, but policy choice that left An1ericans to question [Katrina's] dispropor­tionate impact," he said. 
Linden said future calamities of this nature are inevitable unless significant changes are made. 
"New Orleans is only an exam­ple of what's yet to come," Linden said. "We are in trouble as a nation." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 

Undergraduate Women in Business, co-sponsoring with Graduate Women in Business, the Society ofWomen Engineers, and the Career Center, bring you: 

IIIII 




to 
ork?
' 
m1n 

a presentation by Ginny B. Baxter Senior 1\llanager, Workplace Dynamics, Herman ..Nliller 
October 5, 2005 7:00pm-8:30pm 
MendozaJordan Auditorium 
A reception will follow in the .Nlendoza Atrium 
A:fs. Baxter will present aprograJn on the 4 generations that are currently working together in the workplace and what shapes each generation. She discusses each generation in detail (vets, baby boomers, Xers and millennials), tbe variety ofexperiences and expectations that shaped tbem ttnd what tbat means in tbe office and on work teams. This provides incredible context and insight --especially to tbose wbo are entering the workforce and 
' 

beginning careers. 
THE 0HSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 page 7 


Dow
}ones . 10,441.11 -94.37 
Up: 1,1 I I  Same: I 43  Down: 2,1$5 'vq/  Composite Volume: 2,400,983,230  
AMEX  I ,721.65  -17.11  
NASDAQ  2,139.36  -16.07  
NYSE  7.-558.10  -68.] 3  
S&PSOO  1,214.47  -12.23  

NIKKE.I(Tokyo) 13,738.84 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,949.40 -7.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.24 +0.01 4.20 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -2.04 -O.S2 24.98 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) -0.66 -0.26 39.30 
JDS UN I PHASE CP ODSU) +4.65 +0.10 2.25 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R(SIRI) +4.59 +0.30 6.83 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.39 -0.18 46.03 
I0-YEAR NOTE -0.23 -0.10 43.76 
5-YEAR NOTE -0.14 -0.06 42.39 
3-MONTH BILL + 1.43 +0.50 35.35 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.57 63.90 
GOLD ($!Troy oz.) 0.00 469.30 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 94.80 
Excha Rates 

YEN 114.2550 
EURO 0.8391 
POUND 0.5685 
CANADIAN$ 1.1729 
IN BRIEF 
ISO reports Katrina damage estimates 
NEW YOHK-Hurricane Katrina is likely to result in at lnast $34.4 billion in personal and eommerdal property loss claims, according to the first publicly relnasnd survey of the nation's insurnrs. 
!SO's Property Claim Services Unit said Tunsday that the preliminary estimate of dam­agns to homes and businesses in six states would make Katrina the most mstly U.S. natural disas­ter ever, surpassing the inllation-adjusted $20.8 billion in losses from llurrieanc Andrew in 1992. 
Snvnral risk assessment companies earlier relnased projections of insured losses from Katrina, with totals ranging from $14 billion to $60 billion. 
Thn !SO's tally includes anticipated insurance industry losses for personal and commereial propnrty, including boats and Vf1hicles, business interruption coverage and additional living nxpnnsns. Heportnd damaged to insurnd onshore oillitdlities is included, ISO ollkiaL'i said. 
Bankruptcy is often used as a lifeline 
NEW YOHK -Thrne years ago, life looked awfully blnak to Carmine Warrnn. 
Whiln undergoing surgery and chemotherapy for eanenr, Warrnn and his wife Lynette found that the insuranee paymenl'> they were getting didn't make up li1r his inability to work for weeks at a time, and tlwir bills bngan piling up. 
"It got to tho point of: 'Do we pay the bills, do we pay for mmlidnns or do we pay for !hod for us and our boys'?'" Warnm rnmernbnrs. 
Wlwn crnditors thrnatened to put liens on their homo in Orlando. Fla., thn Wamms felt they had no ehoieo but to file li1r bankruptey. 
Bankruptr.y is a scary word for many families, who ofllm assodatn it with failure. But experts say tho majority of people who snek bankruptcy protndion havn sulliwed a seven1 financial snt­bw~k. 
Tho 'big thrm1' muses: tlwy'vn lost a job, thnir spousn has divorc11d Uwm or diml, or they are hit with lwavy mPdkal bills. according to Cleveland hankruptc:y attornny Alan Kopit. 
Whill' l.lw bankruptcy law that gons into olli1d Ort. 17 aims to stop mnsunwr abuse of the sys­tnrn by making it hardl'r to wip11 out dnhL'>, it also can bn a lifi1lirw for liunilins like t.he Warnms who arP owrwlwlnwd by situations beyond thnir con­trol. 


Delta cuts flights to conserve fuel 
Airline will cancel some of its 4,500 daily flights as part of bankruptcy plan 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Delta Air Lines Inc., bulliJtml by high fuel costs in the wake of Katrina and Hita, said it is reducing its domnstic !light schedule. 
The Atlanta-based carrier isn't nxperienr.ing a short­age of jet fuel, but is eon­serving energy, it said. 
Dnlta spokeswoman Chris Kelly said it's impossible to say exar.tly how many flights will be reduced b11r.ause it will depend on tmvel eaeh day. 
Tho rnductions will be minimal, though, affecting early morning and late­night !lights that have low bookings, Kelly said. For nxan1plt1, flights are more likPiy to be wt on Tuosday or Wedrwsdays rather than on busi11r travel days such as Friday, Sunday and Monday. 
Delta will notify aiTected passengers a few days in advancn and will try to oll'er them choices about rescheduling flights. Kelly said. The company has no end date for the flight r11d uctions. 
International llights will not be affected since it would be harder to ar.eom­modate passengers with other flights on those routes, she said. 

An airline industry expert said Delta's move came as no surprise when other air­"You want to save fuel to University's Peter .J. Tobin plan, whir.h indudes boost­lines also have been tem­avoid higher costs in the College of Business in New ing international eapaeity. porarily curbing flights. future. When you have a York. "Delta has to get lean The nonstop service would American Airlines on Friday solvent airline that's not and mean ... This is what indude flights from Atlanta announced that it was tem­bankrupt-that's American they have to do. This is the to Acapulco and porarily cutting flights from Airlines -doing that, why first wave, but it's going to Zihuatanejo-lxtapa; from two hubs. American, owned would you be surprised that continue." Boston, Cincinnati and by AMR Corp., cited high jet an airline that's in the midst Also Tuesday, Delta said it Washington to Cancun and fuel prices, which were also of bankruptcy is doing plans to lly eight new routes from Los Angeles to Cabo blamed for a new round of that?"said Anthony Sabino, to Mexico as part of its San Lucas, Puerto Vallarta fare increases. a professor at St. John's bankruptcy reorganization and Zihuatanejo-lxtapa. 

Federal Reserve's actions stir debate 
Federal Funds Hate too high in light of Greenspan and his cronies. 
Special to the Observer 

recent event<>, some argue, could insti­A'i the economy mntinues to reaet to gate a spiral into a severe recession, interest rate inerea<;es, oil supply short­
The Federal Heserve (the Fed) 

and perhaps even, significant deflation. ages, and oil price inernases. the Fedincreased interest rates -or Federal Some worry that the Fed's recent action will discover the aptitude of it.'> recentFunds Rate, the rate at which banks will hold-back GDP growth and job cre­dedsions. However, at a eritieal juneturn loan cash to each other-from 3.5 per­ation in the midst of one of the nation's such a<> this, the central bank does notcent to 3.75 percent, continuing the largest natural disaster recovery. efforts. have the luxury of waiting out eurrnntsteady trend of increasing the rate by The fact that several regional Federal events. Hence, the Fed has already0.25 percent at each of the last several Reserve banks have been reluctant to made its decision: fight inflation and
Federal Open Market Committee 

follow suit coneurs this a'>sertion. risk entering a recession of unknownIFOMC) meeting. 
As two category 5 hurricanes -magnitude. It cannot alli1rd not to beThis past meeting and decision, how­Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Hita proactive. The belief stands that intnr­ever, ha'i been scrutinized as a contro­-ripped through the Gulf of Mexieo, est rates in the range of 3.5 pnreent to 5versial move. With Hurricane Katrina's domestic oil production and refinement percent are ideal -they haw a mini­upsetting disturbance likely to remain have been hit hard. Align this with mal nff'ect on inflation and cause nowith people for years, debates stirred as OPEC's insistence of maintaining pro­eonstraint on eeonomic growth. 
to how much the devastation would duction limit quotas and there is a high Thorn appnars to be no apprnhnnsionaffeet the U.S. eeonomy. For the first probability that oil priens may skyrock­in J'urtlwr incrn<L'>ing intnrnst ratns; thntime in two years, the vote to raise the et. nation's central bank 1wen noted in theFederal Funds Hatn was not unanimous Prir.n inereases in certain commodi­press relna'in to lm;t w11ek's mooting that -there wa'> one dissenting vote from a ties alone may cause inflation. Oil is no they intend to rurthnr hike tho FPdPralmgional Fed president now sitting on exception. Because oil is used to pro­Funds Hate. Orm result is dear. For t.lw

the Committen. 

dur.e and supply many goods and serv­first time in a while, thorn IHL'> bnPn con­By raising rates, thn Fnd intends to iees, general prices in many products sidnrabln debatP ovnr thn F11d's curwntsomewhat slow the eeonorny which has have inernased. This ereates a spillover and futurn monet.ary dndsions. 
bnon lighting to nxit the recession of 

eiTeet to 1·.rnate a sort of inrlation.
2001. Tho prindple aim is to light and 

lnermL'>ing the Federal Funds Hate may
1:urb inllation. This is where dnbatnrs This report was contrilmted hy the 
eombat oil price increases as a potential
have been flailing their arms in protest. Federal Open Market C:ommittet' ~~r 
sourm of inllation. This thinking seems
Over the last few years, inflation has the .'!t.udent. lntemat.ional /Jusiness 
to bP somewhere in the minds of Allan 
been relatively stable/low. Haising the Council. 
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
NDSP 
continued from page 1 
2003 and 62 in 2004. Larceny rose from 436 in 2002 to 459 in 2004. 
Johnson said a large portion of the reported incidents of on-cam­pus theft and burglary are pre­ventable. Of the 62 burglaries that occurred in 2004, 38 occurred in residential buildings. Of these 38, only four were the result of forcible entry. Thirty­four of these burglaries hap­pened because dorm rooms were left unlocked, Johnson said. 
Notre Dame has a relatively low crime rate when compared to many other universities, but the University must still work hard to address the present crime on campus by taking smart preventative action, Johnson said. 
In response to the burglary and larceny statistics, Johnson said the University security patrols have grown in numbers and that some arrests have been made already regarding on-campus burglary. 
Johnson also said security is working closely with residence halls to ensure continued safety in the dorm environment. 
One of the best defenses the Notre Dame community can have against crime on campus is to be informed and to take precaution­ary action, Johnson said. The NDSP Web site keeps a crime blotter, a daily-updated post on campus crime news. 
Johnson said the campus e­mails and telephone messages notifying students of the latest criminal activity are important and deserve attention. 
Johnson encouraged faculty, stafl' and students to be mindful of their belongings. He said stu­dents should always lock their bikes -bike theft is a large con­tributor to the increased larceny numbers. Johnson said students should keep their dorm rooms locked during the night and while they are out. Being alert for any suspicious activity is imperative, as well. 
Johnson urged any member of the University community to promptly report any crime to NDSP. 
"We as a community must work together," he said. 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 

Salvaging caused two explosions 
Associated Press tamination, police Sgt. Del 
Garcia said. 

MARION, Ind. -Two Tuesday's explosion at the explosions about six weeks sprawling 1 million-square­apart have some people who foot plant followed an Aug. live and work near a closed 29 blast that killed a salvage Thomson television picture worker, who police said was tube plant uneasy about the using a blowtorch to detach salvage work being done a tank from a building when behind the it blew up. factory's Brenda Beaman, gates. who lives near the 
An explo­"This is the second plant, said she was sion and fire worried that the
time this 

on Tuesday salvage work was
happened. The first 

injured four being done by workers who one shook my unqualified work­were remov­house.,, ers. She left her ing equip­home Tuesday even ment from though it was out­
Brenda Beaman 

inside a side the area where building, Marion resident police asked for police said. evacuations. The fire, "This is the sec-which was ond time this hap­sparked when a live electri­pened. The first one shook cal line was mistakenly cut, my house," Beaman said. critically burned one worker,' "This is just out of hand. I'm with the three others and a extremely nervous." firefighter suffering less­Ralph Carey, who owns a serious injuries. restaurant near the plant, 
Worries about possible said he did not believe the exposure from chemicals salvage work had been going stored in the building well. prompted authorities to ask "They don't know what many nearby residents to they're doing-they've got a leave their homes before air crew over there salvaging quality tests found no con-the place that shouldn't even 

Minor 
continued from page 1 
Completion of the minor requires 15 credit hours, Billy said. 
The idea of offering students some sort of film-related pro­gram has been in the works for about two years, Billy said. 
Currently, the Departments of Communication and Performance Studies, English, History, Art, Sociology, Modern Languages, Religious Studies and Political Science are all teaching or are planning to teach a course that is related to the study of film. However, Billy said any faculty member from any discipline willing to offer a course "with a signifi­cant film component" is wel­come to do so. 
Any new course requires the approval of the Program Committee. This committee is comprised of Billy, professor of art Doug Tyler and professor of Department of Communication, Dance and Theatre Vicente Berdayes. Each faculty member represents one of the three be in the place," he said. 
Thomson closed the plant on the city's south side in March 2004, costing the community midway between Fort Wayne and Indianapolis nearly 1,000 jobs. 
Lester Lee, a North Vernon businessman whose compa­nies include the Lees Inn motel chain along with con­crete and trucking firms, bought the plant from Thomson last spring and has been preparing to market the property to potential buyers. 
Lee told The Associated Press soon after the 8:15 
a.m. explosion that he did not know what work was being done on Tuesday and that he would be traveling to the plant. Police said he was at the plant, but did not speak to reporters Tuesday morning. Several messages seeking comment were left at Lee's office later in the day. 
Marion Mayor Wayne Seybold said the building and equipment insid~ it are old, which may mean more dangerous work. He said the job site would be shut down until officials know it is safe. 
Seybold also said Occupational Safety and 
major categories of the Film Studies Program. 
"Because Film Studies is a brand-new program, we are only on the ground floor," Billy said of student involvement. 
Prior to pre-registration for the spring 2006 semester, all Saint Mary's students will be contacted and informed of the requirements of the minor. 
Health Administration inspectors had visited the factory after the August explosion and that they approved further work at the site. He said OSHA would be called again to check that the site is safe. 
"We're just going to make sure they know what they're doing," Seybold said of the salvage workers. "We're not going to let anybody go back to work until we know it's safe." 
Messages seeking comment on the two explosions were left for state OSHA officials. 
The badly burned worker from Tuesday's fire was taken by helicopter to St. Joseph Hospital in Fort Wayne. Two other workers and a firefighter suffered some burns and were taken to a Marion hospital, Garcia said. A fourth injured worker was treated at the scene. 
Janet Haisley said her best friend's husband was work­ing in the plant and suffered minor burns Tuesday. She said she had never worried about any danger from the plant before Thomson closed it last year. 
"There's never been any threat," she said. 
Billy encouraged any Saint Mary's students interested in the Film Studies Program to contact him for more infor­mation on how to become a part of the newest area of study for Saint Mary's women. 
Contact Molly Lamping at mlampiO1@saintmarys.edu 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5TH 

PRESENTS 

Prof. Gabriel Reynolds Dept. of Theology 


* 





0/!cristialt 

Take Kaplan. Score higher. LSAT GMAT GRE MCAT DAT' Classes are starting soon! GMAT starts 9/06 LSAT starts 9/10 GRE starts 9/12 MCAT starts 9/24 Enroll today &save your seat! Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back"" Test Prep and Admissions § •·1~1 (I~M!O al'~ f'ifil>tl\!f(<•l lfOOHl~S (<f lt\l;l!t rc"MtN';lJ!H'! C<WI'l~~ <.t-fm"ldi1J.OOI> and NSJtrlt'l'l('oft,;. t!fl(ll~ f~ ~~~IP.It< gl•W.ml~ P.llgitJtiil)' ffH}UiMUJtmts, 1. yl$:!1 ~.aplk:ll.tXt1111l\lt JW:: Hlgt!>)l ~Ctll (ltxll"•~tlt<:!<:· >>n!y ')f)!IHI'I!> l.•l ~~~ •:<<UIS'A'l'J. till.hn tll"lfii:Omt"P.It«l l>iiTHil 1M U~!i'ifm SSmo:t;;. ~nd C-aMI.lsl (!';  

~.....________________
___.-...,________________________ 
------------------~~---------------------------------------­
. .... 
. . . ' . . . . 

Wednesday, October 5, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Charges against DeLay rare 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN. Texas -A little­used Texas law could deeide the future of' Hep. Tom Delay, the former llouse majority loader who is eharged with conspiracy and money laun­dlning in an alleged eam­paign-finanee scheme. 
Grand jurors looking into 2002 campaign contributions indietnd DeLay on Monday for the second time in less than a week. llouse rules required him to step down from his leadership post pending the outcome of the ease. 
"I have not seen a criminal eonspiraey case in Texas for a 

llis lawyers filed court papers Monday attacking that charge on technical grounds. Hours later, a new grand jury brought an indictment against DeLay that included one count of conspiracy to launder money and one count of money laundering. 
Under Texas law, a conspir­acy occurs if someone agrees with one or more other people to commit a felony, and if someone in the group per­forms an overt act to carry out that plan. The agreement can be inferred, Bass said. 
State prosecutions rar<'.ly rely on conspiracy, said 
George Dix, a law 
professor at the 

long, time,"  long said  "/ have not seen a  University of Texas. Bass said  
Austin-based  criminal  both conspiracy  
defense attor­ney Hay Bass, who is not  conspiracy case in Texas for a long,  and money laun­dering charges are more often  
involvnd in the DeLay ease. "In  long time."  seen in court,  federal where  
th11 last 20 years, I can't even think of'  Ray Bass defense attorney  money laundering is almost exclu­sively connected  
one."  to drug eases.  
Hather  than  The indictment  

relying on conspiracy eharges, claims DeLay's political com­Texas prosecutors often use mittee, Texans for a an altnrnativc law known as Republican Majority, accepted the state's "parties statute," corporate contributions and which allows them to accuse then sent $190,000 to the or implicate groups of people Republican National who allegedly participated in Committee with a list of seven a crime together, Bass said. Texas state House candidates 
The use of th'e rarely that should receive contribu­invoked conspiracy law sug­tions. The committee then gests that prosecutors are get­allegedly issued checks to the ting "very inventive" in their candidates for a total of case against DfJLay, Bass said. $190,000. 
DeLay was first charged Prosecutors have argued with eonspiracy to violate the that was a violation of the state election eode, which state's ban on the use of cor­bans the direct use of corpo­porate money in local election ratn money for political cam­campaigns. paigns. DeLay defense attorney Dick DeGuerin believes the new indictment replaces the first. But District Attorney Honnie Earle, in a statement released Tuesday, said prosecutors would press ahead with all three charges, and the final decision would be resolved by a judge. 
Earle's office said prosecu­tors found new evidence over the weekend and presented it to the grand jury on Monday, leading to the new indictment against DeLay. Earle did not release any details about the new evidence. 
The previous grand jury had declined to indict DeLay on the additional allegations, the statement said. 
"Out of an abundance of caution because of the pas­sage of time, the district attor­ney's office presented some evidence of those allegations to another grand jury. That grand jury declined to indict on the last day of its regular term," on Sept. 28, the state­ment said. 
DeLay is accused with asso­ciates John Colyandro and Jim Ellis in the campaign-finance scheme allegedly hatched to boost Republicans to victory in state House races in 2002. The GOP won a majority in the I louse that year and took con­trol of the chamber in January 2003 for the first time in 130 years. The Hepublican-con­trolled Legislature then passed a GOP-leaning con­gressional redistricting plan brokered by DeLay that put more Republicans in Congress. 
DeGuerin argued the origi­nal indictment was based on a conspiracy provision that the Legislature added to the law in 2003. 
Mothers and adolescents needed for study on parenting and mom/child relationships. Informal study entails 2 at home visits lasting 2 hrs or less each and permission to audiotape some reponses. $50 c·ompensation. 
For further information, please email Elizabeth at ewebster@nd.edu or call after 9 
p.m. at 

313-303-4691 


Bush proposes ban on cattle parts in feed 
President's new plan would reduce risk of mad cow disease 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Seeking to close a gap in the nation's defense against mad cow dis­ease, the Bush administration on Tuesday proposed to elimi­nate cattle parts from feed for all animals, including chickens, pigs and pets. 
The government already bans cattle remains from being used in cattle feed. The proposal from the Food and Drug Administration "will make an already small risk even small­er," acting FDA Commissioner Andrew von Eschenbach said. 
The plan would reduce the risk of infection by 90 percent, said Stephen F. Sundlof, direc­tor of the FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine. Arter a public comment period, the rules should take effect some­time next year, he said. 
Critics said the proposal falls short of what FDA promised 19 months ago, after the nation's first case of mad cow disease was confirmed. FDA originally said it would prohibit in cattle feed the use of blood, restau­rant plate waste and poultry lit­ter, all potential pathways for mad cow disease. 
The proposal is designed to eliminate the need for banning chicken litter, because chickens would no longer be fed at-risk cattle parts. It does not apply to cattle blood, often fed to calves as a milk replacer, or to restau­rant leftovers. 
The feed rules are important because the only way cattle are known to get mad cow disease is from eating feed containing contaminated cattle rnmains. 
Ground-up cattle remains ­leftovers from slaughtering operations -were used as pro­tein in cattle feed until 1997, when Britain's outbreak prompted the U.S. to ban the use of those remains in cattle feed. The ban applies speeilieal­ly to brains and spinal cords, tissues that can carry mad cow dislJase. 
FDA's new proposal bans using in cattle brains and spinal cords from cows older than 30 months. The age cuton· is spnei­fied beeausn infection levels arn believed to rise as cattln grow older. 
The proposal does not indude other tissues, such as eyes or part of the small intestine, eon­sidered "specified risk matnri­als" by the Agriculturn Department, which requires their removal from meat that people eat. FDA regulatns ani­mal feed. 
Consumer groups critieiznd the government for not closing all the gaps in the feed ban. 
"There is no question that we should not be feeding the remains of any mammals to food animals, and by not closing this dangerous loophole, we are exposing tho American public to unnecessary risk," said Miehanl llansen, a biologist for Consumers Union. 
Chris Waldrop, a spokesman for Consumer Fednration of America, accused the agnncy of caving to pressure from tlw meat industry. 
"Americans remain vulnnra­blc to the health risks created by having the organisms that cause 'mad cow' disease pass into the human food supply," Waldrop said. 
The FDA's Sundlof countered that Tuesday's proposal "is much more protective" than the earlier proposal. 
"By removing the brain and spinal cord, you've taken out 90 percent of the risk," he said, citing a risk assessment pre­pared by Harvard University researchers. 
The meat industry applauded the new rules, saying a broader ban on at-risk tissues from cows of every age would have forced meatpackers to dispose of 1.4 billion pounds of materi­als annually. 
The new plan "is the appro­priatn, scinncn-based policy," said Jim Hodges, president of the meatpacking industry's American Meat Institute Foundation. 
Berkeley will discuss recent interactions between algebra and statistics and their emerging applications to computational biology. Statistical models of independence and alignments for DNA sequences will be illustrated by means of afictional character, DiaNA, who rolls tetrahedral dice with face labels 'A,' 'C,' 'G' and 'T.' 

requisites in 



--------------------------------------------~~~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CJIIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPOIUS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENil EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPJIICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROllER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scenc.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofrhe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeirher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editors and depanmem editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr inf(>rmarion. 
Que>·tions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefC/4ire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'f11c Oh$C'I'V~r (USPS S91J l-41.100) is published Munday thr<,ugh Friday ~K<:t:pt durin!!; exam .tnd vaa.tinn (>criud~. A subscription 10 11u.: Observer is $100 fOt\liiC academic yeo~r; $'55 fi.,r one M!mC!Ita. 
'fbc Ohscrvcr l~ puhlhlwd ,u: POSTMA5TER 1124 South Dining I i:tll St'nd ;~,ddtes5 cl)ffC~"Ti(ln~ nl: Notre Dame, IN 16S%·0779 The Observer l'criudicJ.I pv:.~.agc p.1id Jl Nouc D.1me r.o.Bo, n9 .mJ .additional mililing otfices 024 Snmh Dining Hall 
Nurre Dame. IN 46556.on9 
The O~rvcr j, .l member uf rhc A:>s"datcd Pte<i5. All reproduction rights are roervcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Kate Antonacci Mike Gilloon Lisa Schultz Ryan Kiefer Kaitlynn Riely Fran Tolan 

Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Ram a Brauweiler Gottumukkala Graphics Brian Doxtader Kelly MacDonald Illustrator Meg Dwyer 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT 
To my irritation, everyone I meet automatically assumes that I am straight. 
Of course, I am not actually both­ered by this, except on a bemused and superficial level, since -having been out for some time ­I am quite comfort­able with myself, and anyway if I were concerned with what most people think of me, I would not be a columnist. 
However, it is puz­zling to me, since I have outed myself in this newspaper on five separate occa­sions (albeit, usually in fairly subtle ways), and still people who have read my column, and with whom I am otherwise well acquainted, continue to assume my heterosexuali­ty. It seems that I neither look nor act like I should be gay, and this plays a nontrivial role in how some people interpret what I say and do. I wonder if my years at Notre Dame would have been more complicated if I had been less straight-acting. 
It is because of these subtle biases, like those that people have about a gay person's appearance, that I fear that the vast majority of people on this campus are not equipped to have a remotely profitable discussion about gays and lesbians, their emerging role in society and the pros and cons of contemporary gay culture. Some lack the proper vocabulary, or have only the most rudimentary idea of what being gay means to a gay person or worst of all, get their stereotypes from Bravo, Showtime or Genesis. Given all of this, it is no wonder that the level of discussion about gays in this paper almost never rises above dogmatism and heterosexist sophistry, with the occasional childish rant. 
There is not a great deal that I can do about all this from the vantage of a 


Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

LGBTQ 101 
newspaper, but at the very least I can give a basic lesson in vocabulary and then address one extremely common underlying misunderstanding. 
First, for those who find themselves confused, the preferred terms for referring to persons who are attracted (physically, romantically and/or emo­tionally) to members of the same gen­der are "gay" (adjective), "gay person" (singular) and "gay people" (plural). These forms are useful because they are gender neutral and implicitly include bisexual subjects; however the gender-specific terms "gay man" and "lesbian" are also acceptable in any situation. The increasingly common term "queer" is slightly more danger­ous, since it is still seen as offensive by some. It is usually a synonym for gay, however if used in reference to a per­son it can also mean "gay in an unde­fined way." 
Obviously terms like "fag," "homo," and "dyke" are always highly offen­sive. However, the term "homosexual" is also derogatory and should never be used, as many-myself included ­increasingly find it offensive. Likewise avoid any propaganda terms like "gay agenda," "avowed homosexual" or "gay lifestyle," which are laced with false assumptions. 
Probably the most common, and unfortunate, assumption that people have about gays is that their lives 

. revolve around sex, and that accepting oneself as gay is a fundamentally erot­ic definition. One would think, to read the opposition, that gay rights is a matter of lighting over who gets to lhave sex with] whom and how, and possibly the right to post pornography on billboards outside of grade schools. (Mind you, some of the opposition would consider two women holding hands to be pornography... ) 
Accepting oneself as gay is a sexual definition, but only for a given value of "sex." Sexuality is a profoundly holis­tic concept that touches every aspect of life. For example, Notre Dame's basic social building block is the gen-Wednesday, October 5, 2005 

der-segregated dorm, and the most intimate passages in the Hebrew Scriptures frame spirituality as a con­jugal union with God. Sexuality runs more broadly and more deeply through the human person than many are willing to admit. 
It is also more complex. Consider the definition of a gay person I gave earli­er: someone who is physically, roman­tically and/or emotionally attracted to the same gender. Psychologists distin­guish between physical and emotional attraction, which together make up most of a person's sexual orientation. Emotional attraction is the desire to build a lasting and intimate relation­ship with another person. 
It may surprise you to learn that there are a growing number of people, some of them gay, who refer to them­selves as asexual and who are not physically attracted to others in the classical sense. Yet these people are still compelled to seek out lasting and intimate relationships with others ­certainly ones that go beyond mere friendship -even though the relation­ships have little, if anything, to do with physical sexuality. This is an example of flmotional attraction oper­ating independently ol' physical attrac­tion. · 
My point in all of this is that the landscape ol' human sexuality, for both gay and straight people, is more com­plicated than is usually appreciated. It defies simplfl or narrow definitions and touches many different aspects of a person's life. 
On a side note, Tuesday, Oct. 11 is National Coming Out Day. If you are planning on making an entrance, I wish you the best; if you are not­well, consider it. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of Notre Dame. llis column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at comments@tidewaterblues. com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for the football bye week? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
;Submit aLetteri ''There is no need for temples; no need for complicated philosophy. Our own brain, our own heart is our temple; the philosophy is kindness." 
;to the Editor at . Dalai Lama Tibetan religious leader
·~ www.ndsmcobserver.com 11 
~; . 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 page II 

Domestic violence must be confronted 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
'War culture' the wrong path 
I was disturbed to pick up a copy of The Observer on Oct. 4· (the feast of St. l'rancis of Assisi, who prayed, "Make me an instrument of Thy peace,") and see a front page article blandly treating the activities of the "Notre Damn Army ROTC." 
There was no indication in the article, as there is no indication in the campus culture, that naming a batal­lion after Our Lady might be blasphemous. But what insanity, to honestly believe that the Army Reserve OITieer Training Corps is under the guidance of Our Lady, who is known as the Queen of Peace! 
What madness has fallen on the population of this University? llow can people who are named with the name of Christ so simply dismiss all the words of Jesus in the Gospels and allow our brothers and sisters here to be taught to kill and, maybe worse, to be taught to order others to kill as well? 
Do we think Jesus was exaggerating when he said, "OITer no resistance to injury?" Or that he was speak­ing in riddles when he said, "Those who live by the sword will die by it?" Or that he was smugly ironic when he ordered us to "love our enemies?" 
I pray for all those currently enrolled in the ROTC program, that they will search the Scriptures and seareh tlwir hearts, knowing that Christ is the end of the Law and the prophets, and turn from the path of violence on which they currently walk. I pray that they -that all of us-will instead walk in the way of the eross, whieh teaches us to take,suffering upon our­selves instead of heaping sufferings upon others, even when to do so means our very lives, as it did for our Savior. 
I pray for those who teach in the ROTC program and those who lead this university, that they will stop teaching us with false teachings that are so obviously contrary to the mind of Christ. 
May God have mercy on us all, who are so used to living a life eontrary to the divine teachings that quota­tions of scripture like those above seem ridiculous, subversive, irresponsible and dangerous. 
And happy l'east of St. Francis, by the way. 
Michael Schorsch graduate student Oct. 4 
U-WIRE 

Schools for prejudices 
Recently, a 14-year-old student named Shay 
Clark was expelled from the Christian high 
school that she was attending. For teenagers to 
get expelled from high school, they usually have 
to do something extreme and outrageous. 
However, for this Ontario, Todd 
Calif. girl, it took much less for Swiss 
her to be kicked out of school. 
Clark was told that she could University of 
not return to Ontario Christian Illinois 
School because she has lesbian Daily Illini 
parents. 

The superintendent wrote in the expulsion 
notice that "her family does not meet the policies 
of admission." According to the school policy, 
parents of students are not allowed to live lives 
that are "inconsistent with a positive Christian .lifestyle." At least one parent must be a good 
God-fearing Christian who does not live· with a 
partner out of wedlock. Administrators learned 
of her parents' "inappropriate" relationship 
after the teenager was reprimanded for talking 
to the crowd during a football game. 
How did Clark get admitted to a school with 
such a policy in the first place? On the school's 
Web site, it explicitly states that there is a 
required family interview for all applicants 
before being admitted. It also states that the 
family must be regular churchgoers and active 
in the community. It is not plausible for the 
school to keep track of everything that a family 
does. What happens if a student misses church 
one week? Is the student responsible for tattling 
on his parents if they do something that is 
unholy and against school policy? The school is 
obviously not conducting thorough interviews if 
a girl, with parents who are not even allowed to 
be married, is admitted. 
Now, it is not known whether or not Clark's 
parents are good God-fearing Christians, but it is 
safe to assume that they are not committing 
debaucheries left and right. People with dubious 
morals are usually the last people sending their 
children to Christian schools. 
In addition to Christian schools around the 
country, there are private schools that choose 
their students by the color of th.eir skin. As it 
turns out, people can show their prejudices just 
as long as they pay for it. While free speech activists will argue that the schools are protoct­ed under our Constitution, it does not mean that such institutions are right or good for our coun­try. The schools are not only isolating their stu­dents from the real world, but they are telling another generation of kids that it is okay to dis­criminate against people of different raeial or religious backgrounds. Use of free speech to sup­port backwards and offensive ideologies does not help America move past its racist and sexist his­tory. 
Furthermore, those involved with this Christian and other discriminatory educational institutions are simply burying their heads in the ground. Ontario is less than an hour away from Los Angeles. Other discriminatory schools are in the heart of urban America. As hard as they may try, they arc not going to be able to avoid the unrighteous lives of lesbians and other "hea­thens" while living near such a diverse anm. Here is a suggestion: move. Just as conservatives tell anti-war protesters to move to Canada, these Christian conservatives and racists need to pack up their bags. There are plenty of Amish and Mennonites living in the ignorant 1Hth century out in Pennsylvania. They would fit right in. These are the same people who favor federal funding for private schools. 
Such instances of discrimination in private schools show the problem with any funding for these schools from the government, including the vouchers that our president supports. Even if an intelligent child wanted to go to a speeifie pri­vate school that would challenge her academi­cally, she potentially would be rejected -not because of inferior intellect, but due to ideologi­cal or religious differences. Racism, dassism and prejudice still rule our nation's private schools. Having these schools exist is harmful enough to our nation's citizens; we do not need the federal government supporting them through vouchers. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 4 issue of the Daily lllini, the daily publication at the University ofIllinois. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Oetohnr is National Domestic Violnncl' Awareness Month, and there wuldn't lw a better limn to highlight this prohlnm afflicting our nation. 
llomnstie violnnee isn't going away, and the problnms it 
Gaia

causns in our socie­

Veenls

ty arn morn severe than peopln may 
San Diego

think. Tho disgracn 
Slate 

£ilu~sn 't nnd with 
llnilJersily

ahusivn ads, but 
The Daily Aztec 

oftnn continuos when vidirns seek help they can't find. 
Tlu~rn's some hope in tho battle, but prnsnntly, it's elearly not enough to fornsnn a victory. The House of Hnprnsnntativns recently voted to rmlllthorize thn Violence Against Women Aet by a 415-4 margin days heforn its Oct. 1 expiration, but the bill must still be passed in the Senate, according to U.S. Newswire. At least awareness month has begun on a pos­itivn notn. 
Tho Violence Against Women Act protects victims in many ways. With govnrnmnnt grants, research pro­grams, strengthened law enforcement and !Hlucation, creators of this bill hope to prevent domestic violence and snxual assault. The legislation strnngtlwns training; it helps prevent domestic violence in the military, the workplace and underserved commu­
nitii~S. 
Tlw National Organization for Women and oth1~r women's rights groups have feared the aet wouldn't be reauthorized. However, there's still a large dispute regarding the VAWA's authority to provide assistance to pro­grams geared toward women of color and immigrants, aceording to Ms. Magazine. However, this amendment to the act is still in debate until the Senate and I louse ean agree on its legislation. 

Such legislation is a step in the right direction, but domestic violence still affects millions of people each year. Women suffer the most, making up 90 to 95 pnrcent of vic­tims. The American Bar Association reports estimates that one million to four million women suf­fer nonfatal violence by an intimate partner each year. Shockingly, nearly one in three women will experience a physical assault by a partner in her adult life, aeeording to the ABA. 
One of the biggest problems domes­tic violence causes is the displace­ment, and subsequent homelessness, of victims and their children. Ninety­two percent of' homeless women have experienced severe physical or sexual abuse in their lives, according to the National Network to End Domestic Violence. Many cities report domestic violence as their biggest cause of 
homelessness, yet there aren't nearly enough federal housing rent vouchers to accommodate the need. Some people remain on waiting lists for years. Sometimes 
women are even advised not to file pro­tective orders because it will make them less appealing 
to landlords, according to the National Online Resource Center on Violence Against Women. Long-term assistance is largely unattainable and 

many victims of domestic violence can't get good jobs because of defi­cient daycare assistance and lack or simple job skills. Since many abusers control their victims' lives, they're often unable to learn skills needed to enter the workforce and become self-sufficient. As a result, women and children are forced to stay in slwltnrs longer, and those sheltnrs are eonsn­quently forced to turn morn womnn and families away. Some victims evnn 
resort to returning to their ahusnrs 
because they can't find housing. 
Social services often get tho short end of the stick, ~~specially because tho Bush administration values tax breaks over social programs. 
Helping victims of domestic violmu:e takes a lot of money. With inadequate funding, non-profit organizations are forced to rely heavily on donor money, and raising dollars takes time away from the programs themselves. 
October is a good time to learn more about domestic violence, but one month out of the year isn't enough. Now more than ever, nonprofit organ­izations need funding to hnlp women and families get away from the hor­rendous situations their abusers put them in. 
Donating clothes and food to local charities that assist battered women can help, and awarennss of thn ongo­ing problem is essential to combat abuse -every month of tho ynar. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 4 issue of The /Jaily Aztec, the daily publication at .'ww /Jit!go State University. 
Tlze views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

'Violence' a history lesson worth taking 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Tom Stall (Viggo Mortensen) and his wife Edie (Maria Bello) live peacefully in Indiana until unwelcome visitors disrupt their lives in "A History of Violence." 
Burton's 'Corpse Bride' surprisingly lively 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Scene Critic 

"Tim Burton's Corpse Bride," the long­awaited follow-up for fans of "The Nightmare Before Christmas," sustains a sense of fun and accessibility, but isn't quite up to its predecessor's originality. 
"Corpse Bride," though, certainly reaches its artistic expectations and simultaneously provides a fun, if fleeting, evening's worth of entertainment to a varied group of moviegoers. 
"The Corpse Bride" opens as a mar­riage is being arranged between Victor Van Dort (voiced by Johnny Depp), the son of wealthy fishmongers, and Victoria Everglot (voiced 
by Emily down, will yer? We're 
Tim Burton's Corpse Bride 
Watson), the in a church." daughter of Emily pouts about 
.. ,-) '"'· ) J'" \ ) ",.·)) ,, '· ) ) 
bankrupt aris­her rival Victoria, tocrats. Despite calling her "Little
JiJ J~ JiJ J_s.J Jj~ 
several clumsy Miss Living," and
Director: Tim Burton 
first attempts Victor tells his
Writer: Caroline Thompson
-mostly on already skeletal dog
Starring: Johnny Depp, Helena Bonham
Victor's part -­to "play dead." The
Carter and Emily Watson 
they seem to film's comedic ele­
have fallen in love by the end of their first meeting. Unfortunately, Victor fails to properly recite his vows during the rehearsal wed­ding and ends up running into the woods to practice. 
There, he ac.cidentally says his vows a bit too well and places the wedding ring on to what he believes is a tree branch, but is actually the skeleton of the Corpse Bride. Victor ends up inadvertently mar­rying her and is initially scared out of his wits. Instead of a fearsome monster, 
ments are some of its best and most charming attractions. 
The music is not nearly as successful as the humor. Though the score and the numerous piano pieces Victor -and occasionally Emily -play add to the movie's appeal, the actual singing parts are at best unforgettable. Often the songs feel forced, and while their straightfor­ward fun may entertain the younger members of the audience, the older crowd will be less enthused. 
Once again, Tim Burton's use of stop-however, the Corpse Bride ends up being a poor girl named Emily (voiced by Helena Bonham Carter). Murdered before her wedding day, Emily is still looking for her own true love, whom she now believes to be Victor. 
Meanwhile, upon Victor's disappear­ance, Victoria has been re-engaged to another man, the suspicious Lord Barkis. What follows is a sweet, if simple, tale of love lost and gained as Victor, Victoria and Emily struggle to put their hearts in the right place. . 
Thankfully, despite the romantic nature of the storyline, the humor of many of Tim Burton's films is retained. The audi­ence has chances to laugh as skeletons tell a priest about to start exorcising 
demons to "Keep it want him to return with them. What 

By SEAN SWEANY follows is a bloody hunt for all involved 
Scene Critic to find out the truth about Tom's past. 
Director David Cronenberg ("Spider", 

How far would you go to protect your "The Fly") does an excellent job of family? How far would you go to pro­adapting the 1997 graphic novel by tect those you do not know? How far John Wagner and Vince Locke to the would you go to protect a deep, dark big screen. Cronenberg is known for secret? depicting extremely graphic violence, 
David Cronenberg's "A History of and "A History of Violence" is similarly Violence" is a gripping movie that tries explicit to his other work. to answer these questions and leaves The opening scene of the film seems many more in its wake. much like a Western because it consists . Tom Stall (Viggo Mortensen, "Lord of of a single shot, following the two crim­the Rings" trilogy) is a quiet family inals, who will later try to rob Tom man who owns a small diner in small­Stall, as they check out of a motel. The town Indiana. lie shot appears to and his loving be boring and wife Edie (Maria pointless until the

A History ofViolence
Bello, "The camera moves Cooler") have two 
inside and finds children, Sarah the motel owners {Heidi Hayes) and brutally mur­Jack {Ashton dered by the two Holmes), and men.
Director: David Cronenberg
seem to be the The rest of the
Writer: Josh Olson 
quintessential movie follows the
Starring: Viggo Mortensen, Ed Harris, 
American family. formula of care­
Maria Bello and William Hurt
But everything fully arranged changes when drama scenes two criminals barge into Tom's diner at interrupted by brief, graphic violence. closing time and threaten Tom and the At its heart, "A History of Violence" is customers. In response, Tom kills the a family drama in which violence men so quickly and efficiently that he estranges a father from his family, and seems to be a trained soldier. The he must make amends. Mortensen and ensuing media frenzy brings plenty of Bello give excellent, believable per­attention to the humble family, but formances as a husband and wife who unwanted visitors in suits and dark passionately love each other despite ­sunglasses arrive, led by the heavily and throughout -the whole ordeal. scarred Carl Fogarty (Ed Harris, "A When the movie takes on the vein of Beautiful Mind," "Apollo 13"). These an action film, viewers find out exactly strangers turn out to be Philadelphia how far Tom Stall will go to protect his mob men who think Tom is really a fel­family. Mortensen portrays his charac­low mobster named Joey Cusack and ter as a capable hero, but the ease with which he kills causes viewers to con­sider Stall as treading a very fine line between good and evil. 
One lesson to take away from this film is that violence can only beget more violence. Once Tom sets out on his vicious path of retribution, he seemingly cannot stop. Cronenberg makes a point not to stylize the vio­lence, but to portray it in a simple, cold, visceral manner. The fact that none of the characters reacts strongly to this brutality speaks volumes about Cronenberg's takes on the prevalence and acceptance of violence in the world today. 
These themes of the film are what 
really make it worth watching. While Mortensen and Bello give strong per­formances and Ed Harris plays an unforgettable role as Carl Fogarty, many of the other supporting actors, especially the younger ones, leave something to be desired. 
The movie is also quite short, only 96 minutes, so there are several plot holes, but the quick pace makes the violence more explosive for viewers. 
Overall, however, the issues and questions Cronenberg's "A History of Violence" raises make it well worth the price of admission. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 

courtesy movieweb.com Tim Burton brings his familiar quirky sense of humor and mastery of stop-motion animation to "Tim Burton's The Corpse Bride," his second film this year. 
motion animation, despite computer advancements, results in a quirkily beau­tiful film. The worlds of the living and the dead are strikingly painted in very differ­ent colors that match their feel. 
Ironically, the land of the dead is filled with bright neon colors, while the land of the living is painted in muted grays and purples, reflecting the idea that only death or love can overcome the world's difficulties and trivialities. 
The stop-motion animation itself pro­vides an enjoyable and whimsical look to the movie that is often lost in the "perfec­tion" of computer-generated images. Because they are animated, the charac­ters' physical appearances become great reflectors of their personalities. 
"Tim Burton's Corpse Bride," like 'The Nightmare Before Christmas," does excel at remaining entertaining for audiences of all ages and types. The PG rating and fun storyline attracts kids, while the humor attracts older crowds and the artistry tempts film enthusiasts. 
With its mass appeal, quirky beauty and entertaining storyline, "Tim Burton's Corpse Bride" is a fun movie definitely worth catching before it passes on. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 


MOVIE REVIEW 
And what a flight it is. of the Alliance's military might. "At last, we ean rntirn and give up this lifo By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA The ragtag crew of Serenity, a cargo While intergalactic crusades are nothing oferime." Scene Ediwr ship that navigates the far reaches of new for a genre long associated with These exchanges of terse, but genuine, 
space, takes freelance jobs as they come, numerous "Star Wars" and "Star Trek" eomedie wiseeraeks arc sprinkled For the first Limo in years, the frontier of even if those business ventures aren't offerings, "Serenity" offers something throughout and lend a charming person­outer sp<u:e was quiet. exactly legal. Their captain, Malcolm many $100 million extravaganzas cannot ality to the film. The characters in 
With "Hnvnnge of the Sit.h" recently fin­Heynolds (Nathan Fillion), is a hardened -heart. The heart of "Serenity" -and "Serenity" could easily havn bonn writtnn ishing its triumphant blitz through the vetf~ran who was on the losing side of a the reason why it is so memorable -is its into any numbnr of dill'nrcnt genrns and surnnwr box officn and "Star Trek: galaetie civil war. lie leads his crew from deep, charismatic cast. been just as endearing and memorable. N1~nwsis" already thn~e years removed job to job, scrapping together a living that Whether running from one threat to Whedon, who pulled double duty on thn from theaters, two of the most lucrative, enables them to another, hanging on film as both the dirm:tor and writnr, is a hnlovod sdnnce lktion franchises were keep flying. for dear life in the creative genius. .Juggling ninn principal
Serenity
suddenly silent. Al'tnr Heynolds film's numerous outer characters is no easy task, nspeeially in a 
Into that vacuum steps OJHl of tho most unknowingly space skirmishes or two-hour film. But Whedon's seript is so unlikely, but worthy, hnirs to the sdenec harbors a pair arguing baek and eaptivating and so balancnd that not a lktion throne -director .loss Whodon's of fugitives, the forth with pithy ban­second is wasted, espndally as thn tension "Sernnity," a film that by all rights never erew members ter, the east is dearly is ratchcted up with nad1 ensuing scenn. 
Director: Joss Whedon 

had a good shot at entming produetion in of Serenity lind having a lot of fun With witty dialogue, charming charac­
Writer: Joss Whedon 

the first plaee. themselves in with their respectivn ters and captivating action scnnns,
Starring: Nathan Fillion, Chiwetel 
Basnd on Whndon's short-livnd "Firefly" the crosshairs of roles and it shows on-"Serenity" accornplislws more than any­
Ejiofor and Gina Torres 

tnlnvision series, "Senmity" is a big-screen the Universal screen. one thought it could. Whedon, his cast and sequel to a TV show that lasted only 11 Allianee, the In one scene early his crew have snrvcd notiee that, givnn a episodes on Fox baek in 2003. eoalition that won the civil war. in the film. Heynolds and his crew am in chance, their littll~ film ean sullieiently fill Fortunately, Whedon was able to sell the Suddenly, Heynolds and his crew can no the process of robbing a bank safe associ­the void left in the science fiction genrn. rights to Universal. a studio willing to longer free-float through space, as they atnd with the Alliance. After forcing their bankroll the 40 million dollars needed to elude a mysterious, ruthless Alliance way into the practically empty safe, Zoe, Contact Rama Gottumukkala at Lest Llw film's flight potential. operative (Chiwetel Ejiofor) backed by all Heynolds' long-standing first mate, quips, rgottumu@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Ediwr 
.loss Whedon doesn't give up easily. 

Although "Firel'ly," a sdonce-l'ietion show tho writer/director devnloped for Fox in 2002, enjoyed a small but zoalously d1woted fanbasn. it was terminated mid­season by Fox executives who thought they w1~rn eutting their losses early. Surprisingly positive sales of the "Firefly" I>VIl set allowed Whedon to whisk his ere­alive darling away from Fox and convince Universal Studios to finance "Serenity," a hig-scrmm snquHI to his small TV project. 
Looking haek at tho early episodes of "FirPily," it's easy to sne why Whedon fought so hard to keep the show alive. 
IWied as Whedon's unique vision liJr the future, "Firefly" drops vampires and demons li1r a roaring, high-spirited trip to the far reaches of outer space. 
The seerw is the vague future, and the destruction of Earth and the development of interplarwtary travel have led to the colonization of various planets, yielding a unique hybrid lifestyle that is equal parts Western-and sdence-lietion. The show follows an ensemble east of nine charac­ters, each with his own outlook on life aboard their interplanetary cargo ship, allcctionately dubbed Serenity. 
At the show's epicenter is Malcolm Hcynolds (Nathan Fillion), a renegade sol­dier who was on the losing end of an interplanetary civil war. Fiercely loyal to his crew, Heynolds guides Serenity below the radar of the Alliance, the unified cen­tral government that emerged victorious in that civil war, as the ship flies between the border planets. 
Heynolds' ragtag crew includes: Zoe (Gina Torres). who served with Reynolds in the war and remains extremely loyal to him; Wash (Alan Tudyk), her self-depre­cating, witty husband and the ship's pilot; Kaylee (Jewel Staite), the ship's sunny, good-natured mechanic; and Jayne (Adam Baldwin), a tough, brash mercenary hired to help the crew's "business" enterprises. 
With sueh a large, colorful east of char­acters, "Firefly" has plenty to offer in terms of drama and story development. Indeed most of the show's produced episodes focus on expanding the back­hrround of each of the show's diverse prin­cipal characters. "Firefly" succeeds because Whedon frequent­ly dips into the past of 
Fireflyeach character, mining a wealth of character devel­
The Complete Series 
opment. The DVD includes all 11 
20th Century Fox
of the show's original episodes and an additional three that were never broadcast on Fox. Some of the standout episodes 

inelude: "Out of Gas," in which the spaceship loses power and the show's creators creatively use flashbacks to introduce how Paeh of the ship's inhabi­tants came to join Heynolds' crew; "Ariel," an action-packed episode that shows how far Simon (Sean Maher), a young, rieh doctor, is willing to go to rescue his sister, Hiver (Summer Glau); and "Serenity," the show's two-hour pilot episode, which introduees Reynolds and shows how he became a hardened leader after losing most of his troops during the civil war. 
The special features for this box set arc extensive. Seven episode-specific audio eommentaries featuring various members ol' the east and erew highlight how much work, sweat and love wPnt into the show's creation. Also ineludnd are snvnral fna­turettns, including a l'asdnating 2H-minutn doeumnntary that nxplorns how the serins was eonenivnd and oll'ers a look into thn ernators' dillieulties in knnping thn show alive. 


"Firefly" is one of thosn exceptional shows that burnnd brightly with a lili~span that was l'ar too short. Fortunately, the relnase of "Serenity" in theaters has drawn more attention to this little-known gem. Every episodn on the DVI> is a reminder of why Whedon was so unwill­ing to let the show lizzie without a light. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

Captain Mal Reynolds (Nathan Fillion), left, and Jayne (Adam Baldwin) fend The cast of the show "Firefly," which was canceled after only 11 episodes, against a seemingly unstoppable military force in Joss Whedon's "Serenity." returns In the feature film "Serenity." The complete series Is available on DVD. 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 
DVD REVIEW 
'The Longest Yard' nearly goes distance 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 
Remakes have become a staple in Hollywood these past years. They do well financially, as they appeal to fans as well as newcomers. However, they are almost universally panned by critics for not reaching the bar the previous movie·set. 
Fortunately, the remake of the 1970s classic "The Longest Yard," directed by Peter Segal, proves to be a solid effort, both standalone and as a remake. It may not be incredibly deep, but it was also never meant to be. As a piece of pure entertainment, it succeeds admirably. 
One of the traits that "The Longest Yard" has going for it is that it has almost as much star power as "Ocean's Eleven." Starring Adam Sandler, Chris Rock, Burt Reynolds, Nelly, Bill Goldberg, Tracy Morgan and a wealth of others, it proves to be worth watching for sheer screen charisma alone. 
Each star is given more than a simple cameo, however. They all play important roles within the movie, to varying extents. Of course, some actors get more screen time compared to others, but that only works to heighten the enjoyment when comedian Tracy Morgan or Kevin Nash pops onto the screen. 

The story at first almost seems second­ary to the characters on the screen, but fortunately, it's ultimately not. If there is any real complaint, it's that the movie is too short. A little more time could have been well spent developing each of the characters, but as the movie stands now the lack of background doesn't hurt its flow. 
The sound and video on the DVD are up to standards, meaning that they nei­ther stand out nor detract from the movie. However, with the movie largely set in a prison, it's unlikely the image quality could be much improved to any real effect. 
The ·extras on a DVD that star this many personalities tend to go either two ways, often being a bare bones release. Fortunately "The Longest Yard" went the other way, with the extras filled with as 
much charisma as the movie.· 
"First Down and Twenty-Five to Life" is one of the best features, as it shows most of the actors talking about their roles, the difficulties they encountered trying to act like real football players and what it was like film­ing in a desert, in a real jail. However, it also looks like the standard extra, so the video quality isn't the greatest. 

Another interesting feature, at least for non-athletes, is "The Care and Feeding of Pro Athletes." Since many of the actors in the movie were actual football players, or at least athletic enough to be one, they had to be fed proportionate amounts. It is an interesting feature for those who never experienced the athletic appetite first-hand. 
The other features are equally enter­taining and informative, running the gamut from how producers made the hits look real to the computer rendered ten­nis ball in the movie. It's a decent inclu­sion for the computer aficionados out there. 
Overall, the movie may not be the deepest around, or the most logical. But it wasn't intended for that. It was intend­ed to be a good, humorous football movie, at which it succeeds nicely. The hits look real, and the actors could pass for real football players, which is good enough for a lightweight film like "The Longest Yard." 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Scorsese's first masterpiece to be screened at DPAC 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistant Scene Editor 
"Loneliness has followed me my whole life, everywhere" says Travis Bickle (Robert DeNiro) midway through Martin Scorsesc's "Taxi Driver" {1976). "In bars, in cars, sidewalks, stores, everywhere. There's no escape. I'm God's lonely man." 
This may be the key passage in a key film for everyone involved, including director Scorsese, screenwriter Paul Schrader and (especially) lead actor Robert DeNiro. 
The trio, along with cinematographer Michael Chapman, would be pushed to Betsy (Cybill Sheperd), an attractive polit­ical campaign worker, and his follow taxi drivers. 
The first half of the film is more atmos­pherically evocative than plot-oriented, though the climax and denouement, which follow Bickle as he rapidly becomes unhinged, ranks among any­thing filmed last century. 
Based loosely on John Ford's seminal 1956 Western "The Searchers," the plot begins to unravel as Bickle becomes obsessed with saving a young prostitute {brilliantly played by a 12 year old Jodie Foster) from her sleazy pimp (reliable Scorsese mainstay Harvey Keitel). 
"Mean Streets" 
(1973) might have 
even greater heights put him on the
Taxi Driver

in 1980's "Raging map, but it was Bull," perhaps the 
"Taxi Driver" that finest American film really solidified of all time. If "Taxi Scorsese's reputa­Driver" isn't at quite When: Saturday, Oct 9 at 3 pm tion as a director. 
the same level, it is He fills the film
Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC 

with indelible 
moments throughout, most notably in the famous "You talkin' to me?" mirror scene. Like most of his films, "Taxi Driver" is discom­forting and disquieting, with many diffi­cult and shocking moments. 
DeNiro is staggeringly unrelenting in what may be his most famous role. Watching him as he self-destructs is fasci­nating and terrifying in equal measures. 
Yet, the other actors are equally up to par, especially Foster, who gives a com­pellingly bravura performance as the prostitute Iris. 
Her Iris as both nonchalant and vulner­able, often simultaneously, making Bickle's obsessive quest to become her savior more believable. 
"Taxi Driver" was a major critical suc­cess, winning the Palme d'Or at the 1976 still one of the great masterpieces of the latter half of the twentieth century and a revealing snapshot of its time. 
The Browning Cinema will be screening "Taxi Driver," Scorsese's first master­piece, on Saturday at 3 p.m. in the Browning Cinema, located in the DPAC. 
"Taxi Driver," more than anything, is about isolation and loneliNess in the post­Vietnam, post-Watergate era. Bickle, one of the cinema's most indelible creations, is a ticking time bomb given terrifyingly realistic life by Robert DeNiro, in one of the most intense performances of his career. 
The film follows Bickle, an insomniac cab driver and Vietnam veteran, as he begins to undergo a mental breakdown. Bickle is a loner who is unable to make real connections with people, including Cannes Film Festival. Oddly enough, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences dropped the ball on this one, as neither Scorsese nor Schrader even received nominations. DeNiro lost the act­ing Oscar, which was posthumously awarded to Peter Finch for "Network." 

The big winner of the year was John G. Avildson 's "Rocky." If Sylvester Stallone competing against DeNiro for the acting Oscar and beating out Paul Schrader for a writing nomination seems absurdly unbelievable, remember that he had not yet made such masterpieces as "Rambo: First Blood Part II" and "Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot." 
As for Scorsese, he went on to make "Raging Bull" and "Goodfellas," while Avildson (the director Oscar winner of the year) went on to make 'The Karate Kid Part III" and "Rocky V." Oops. Sometimes hindsight really is 20-20. 
"Taxi Driver" is one of the most impor­tant American films of the 20th century and should not be missed. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

I 
• I 
•,. I ' 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 5, 2005 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Red Sox black and blue after loss to White Sox 
Yankees ride arm of Mussina to win over Angels in division series opener 
Associated Press all. 
One sign in the stands 
CHICAGO -The White Sox summed up hopes on the South got the winning socks. Five of Side: 'em. Now, after such a powerful "2004: Their Sox. 2005: Our start, maybe it's their turn to Sox." end a title drought. Then again, Boston has done 
Stunning the World Series fine overcoming October champions with five homers -deficits. The Red Sox rallied two by A.J. Pierzynski -from 3-0 down to beat the New Chicago routed the Boston Red York Yankees in the AL champi­Sox 14-2 Tuesday in their play­onship series last year before off opener. sweeping St. Louis in the World 
"It's nice when you get a game Series for their first title since like this, but we've played 1918. enough of the other ones to not They started that remarkable 
expect this," White Sox first run last October after they were baseman Paul Konerko said. "I beaten 19-8 in Game 3 of the don't think we really felt com­ALCS. fortable until we were up eight, "That was a long time ago," 
ten runs." Boston manager Terry Francona 
Pierzynski went the final said. "It's a different team. I've month of the regular season said so many times that last without a homer, but his first year doesn't matter. What mat­one Tuesday -a three-run shot ters to this team is how we -capped a five-run first irining bounce back tomorrow." against Matt Clement. And, sur­Game 2 in the best-of-five prisingly, it came right after the series is Wednesday at U.S. catcher tried to bunt, only to Cellular Field with Chicago's 
have the ball roll foul. Mark Buehrle facing Boston's 
"Just one of those things, I got David Wells. good pitches to hit and I hit The White Sox got their first 'em,'~ Pierzynski said. "In the playoff victory since 1993, and playoffs you get to start over the home run derby sent a sent and forget what you did in the a raucous, towel-waving crowd 
past." of 40,717 into delirium as they 
Konerko, Juan Uribe and even roughed up Clement. me." Rivera said. "It's big. It's good to of an early-season skid. leadoff hitter Scott Podsednik -"It's disappointing. No excus­Mariano Rivera saved it for win." After a sensational September who didn't have a homer all es. I pitched bad," Clement said. the Yankees, who looked com­New York produced all its that earned him AL rookie of the season -also connected, "I threw bad pitches. They hit pletely fresh -even after a offense with two outs and wast­month honors, Cano's clutch hit 
Jose Contreras pitched effec­them." cross-country trek on the heels ed little time getting to Colon, a Tuesday helped the Yankees to tively into the eighth inning, of a seven-game road trip to end 21-game winner and leading their first victory in a division ending Boston's eight-game Yankees 4, Angels 2 the regular season. They trav­contender for the AL Cy Young series opener since they took postseason winning streak that Mike Mussina felt much better eled west late Sunday, one day Award. Game 1 from the Angels in 2002 carried the team to its first title as soon as rookie Robinson Cano after clinching their eighth con­The Angels' ace threw one before losing the next three. in 86 years last season. gave the New York Yankees an secutive AL East title with a vic­ball in his first 13 pitches, but New York lost its first-round 
But it was Chicago's bats that early lead. Just like that, the tory over the rival Red Sox in allowed three straight two-out opener to Minnesota the past took Boston out early and made right-hander wasn't as con­Boston. singles in the first to the middle two seasons before winning Contreras' job easier. cerned about his tender elbow. "We've been playing impor­of New York's order -Jason three straight to advance. 
"The power, obviously, sur­Mussina pitched scoreless ball tant games for the last month or Giambi, Gary Sheffield and Colon retired Jeter and Alex prises you. Podsednik hits his into the sixth inning, Cano lined so now," Yankees captain Derek Hideki Matsui -prompting a Rodriguez on five total pitches first homer of the year, that's a three-run double in the first Jeter said. "It doesn't matter visit from pitching coach Bud to start the game, then had two surprising," Boston's Kevin and the Yankees beat Bartolo whether we're home or on the Black. Cano then lined a double strikes against all four players Millar said. "But it doesn't mat­Colon again, defeating the Los road." over Garret Anderson's head in who got first-inning hits. ter how they do it. We'll just Angeles Angels in Game 1 of Darin Erstad's RBI single cut it left, clearing the bases. "He's as tough as any pitcher come back tomorrow and try to their AL division series Tuesday to 4-2 in the ninth, only the lOth "I had two strikes. I wanted to in baseball," Jeter said. "We win a game." night. earned run Rivera has allowed take my chance," said Cano, tried to score early and Robby 
The White Sox are trying to "This is only the third time in 71 career postseason appear­whose hit went to the opposite had the big hit." end a championship drought I've been to the mound since I ances. But the right-hander got field. "It's something I've been The burly right-hander, who that's even longer the one had three weeks off," said pinch-hitter Casey Kotchman on working on all year in the big allowed three homers to A-Rod Boston faced a year ago. Mussina, who missed much of a popup for his first postseason leagues, to use the whole field." on April 26 in New York's 12-4 
It dates way back to the days September because of his ailing save since blowing chances in Cano began the season with win, reached 48 pitches after of Shoeless Joe Jackson and elbow. "One was good and one Games 4 and 5 against Boston Triple-A Columbus, but was pro­only two innings. He plunked their most recent World Series was bad, so I didn't have any in the 2004 AL championship moted in May as general man­Rodriguez in the back in the crown in 1917, the last time idea what to expect. The two series. ager Brian Cashman shook second after allowing a two-out they won any playoff series at extra days off certainly helped "I always have confidence," things up to get the Yankees out single to Jeter. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, i.ncluding all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli­
ances. $69,900. Call Kim Kollar 
574-280-8160. CENTURY 21 JIM

NOTICES 
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early and Save Lowest Prices Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest Commission Best Travel Perks www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800­426-7710 
LOST AND FOUND Alum needs NO-USC tickets. 
NOW HIRING Have a car? Need BLUE & GOLD HOMES. Best rates WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. Please call Mike at 607-733-4590. FOUND: Pair of Oakley glasses out-some extra cash? Jimmy John s is for weekend, monthly & yearly TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. side of Corby Hall on Friday, 9/30. hiring drivers for all shifts. Contact rentals. 574-250-7653. NEED USC TIX, CAN ALSO SWAP Call Jack 276-0401 to identify and Chuck at 286-0299. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. LOCAL LODGING, 312-925-8961. claim. Rooms in private home for rent dur-289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE Personal 
ing ND football weekends or other FOR$$: www.victorytickets.comFoR RENT ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658. FoR SALE BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT-PERSONAL YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. Elegant all brick 3bdrm home & ments available for 06-07 school Bedrooms includes all utilities,local 273-3911. USC Countdown: 10 days 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­BORHOODS andersonNDrentals.com 
Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND game weekends. 7732182203 
HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAIL­ABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS UP TO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO ND. FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS­OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315-5032. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 WANTED: NO-USC football tix. TOP Bedrooms includes all utilities,local $$$ PAID. CALL 574-232-2378 A.M. phone, washer/dryer, security sys-574-288-2726 P.M. tem. $400/student. Office 234-9334, Cell315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com BUY/SELL/TRADE OR SWAP ND 
FOOTBALL TIX. 289-8048. ND HOME GAME WEEKENDS Very nice 3bdr home, fully fur-NEED USC & TENN TIX & PARK-nished,walk to ND. Garage+ 5 off-lNG PASS. 574-276-8507. .street parking, gas grill. Open lease after. 283-0629. A FARM FAMILY NEEDS 2 OR 4 
USC TIX. WILL PAY A FAIR PRICE. 654-0169 (local call) 

TICKETS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Police Officer Positions! The City of Madison (WI) Police Department is currently accepting applications for a class which begins in May, 2006. Written testing for this process will be held on Tuesday, October 11, 6:00pm, at Indiana Univ-South Bend,Northside-Room 013, 1700 Mishawaka Ave. Applications will be given out at the test and no prereg­istration is required. Questions? Call MPD at (608) 266-1490; www.madisonpolice.com 
So here's the earth. Dang that is a sweet earth you might say, round, anyway... 
DUNFEE 


WANTED 
ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work $12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched­ules around classes, Gain exp. in customer sales & service, Conditions apply, all ages 17 & older, Call Today 574-273-3835. 

garage. Nicely remodeled, gorgeous year. phone, washer/dryer, security sys­inside.1 mi to ND. $175,900. 283-tem. $400/student. Office 234-9334, WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game. Hey Mawy. Guess what? I didn't sleep for ten days because 0629. Call today 235-7234. Cell 315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com Call203-261-8717 Jim. I spiwwed that would be too long 
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB -NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Sanders knocks in six runs as Cardinals roll 
St. Louis too powerful for San Diego as Carpenter throws six scoreless innings 

Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Heggie Sanders, Chris Carpenter and the St. Louis Cardinals looked every bit like the best team in base­ball -even with a shaky end­ing. 
San Diogo played as poorly as its rncord suggests for most of the day. And now, with ace pitcher Jake Peavy out for the postsoason with a broken rib, the Padres might be over­matched. 
Sanders hit a grand slam and set an NL division series record with six HBis, Carpentor pitched six seorf\less innings before being pulled as a pre­caution and the Cardinals built a big lead and held ofT the 
P<~.dr~1s 8-5 Tu~;s~ay in Game .1. Its huge, Sanders satd. "Let alone getting one HBI in a wonk, you get six in one day and especially under postsea­son pressure. It's a great day. "But it's not over, -we've got a long way to go." Facing a team that won the West despite an 82-80 record, the Cardinals -who led the majors with 100 wins ­opened an 8-0 cushion in the 
l'ifth inning against Peavy. lie pitched with an injury that worsened in the third and was 
taken to a hospital after lasting only 4 1/3 innings. 
An MHI showed one broken rib on his right side and the possibility of a second break. A Padres spokesman said the injury would take four to six weeks to heal. 
"lie felt something on his 

University of Notre Dame Jnte•·national Study Progt·am in 
Angers, France Paris, France 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Top Ten Reasons Why You Should NOT Go To France 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
trst or secon 
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 7:30PM 118 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 Academic Year 2006-2007 Fall 2006, Spring 2007 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
right side," manager Bruen Klnsko said. "lin pitched him­Boehy said. "lie said he felt it self out of a couple of jams." during the course of' the CaqH' n tn r 's b i ggnst batt In game." was with the weatlwr. It was 
Even without Peavy, tlw an unseasonably warm X4 pesky Padres weren't donn. dngrnns at gametinw and Xf1 They scored once in the sev­whnn he nxpnrinncnd (Tamping enth, added another run in tho in his right hand whilo warm­eighth and then got right baek ing up bdorc tlw seventh. Tlw into it in the ninth. San Dingo Cardinals said dehydration scored three times and loaded caused the problmn and took the bases with two outs before him out as a precaution. closer Jason Isringhausen Carpenter said his fingers struck out Hamon Ilernandez. started £Tamping wlwn lw put 
"We're playing a tough on his batting glov(~ bnfon~ team," Sanders said. "As you striking out in thn sixth. lin can sen, they fought to the last also said his hamstrings and out." calves wern cramping. 
Mark Mulder will oppose San "It only happnned twicn," Diego's Pedro Astacio on Carpenter said. "But tlwy Thursday in Game 2 of tlw wnn~n't going to takn a best-of-five series. ehanen." 
Jim Edmonds helped St. Peavy appeared to be t.hn Louis with a Padres' host shot home run, double at postseason suc­and single. Erie enss after going
"It's not over,
Young had a 13-7 with a 2.XX 
pinch-hit homer we've got a long EHA -only five in the eighth for way to go. " points behind San Diego and an Carpentor -and HBI groundout in leading the Nl.
Reggie Sanders 
the ninth. with 21 f1 strike­Manager Tony outs. But he
St. Louis outfielder 
La Hussa's team won for the firth time in six NLDS openers. That includes a victory in 1996 when the Cardinals swept the Padres. 
The 37-year-old Sanders was on pace for the first 30-homer. 30-steal season of' his earner before missing 54 games after breaking his right leg in an outfield collision with Edmonds in mid-July. Sanders rediscov­ered his stroke in the final week of the regular season, driving in 10 runs in the last six games and homering three times in the final four. 
Against Peavy, Sanders had both of the key hits. llis two­run single off the glove of div­ing first baseman Mark Sweeney put the Cardinals ahead 4-0 in the third, and his grand slam into the left-field seats on a 3-0 fastball chased Peavy in the fifth. 
Carpenter was 21-5 with a 
2.83 EHA, the ace the Cardinals lacked in the playoffs last fall when they were swept in the World Series by the Hed Sox. But he struggled in tho final month, with a 9.14 EHA in his 11nal four outings, and said he lost motivation after tho Cardinals elindwd the Central with two weeks to spare. 
"It feels nice to get zeros and get a win," Carpenter said. "You go out there to execute pitches and give your team a chance to win and I was able to do it all day." 
The Padres saw the dominant Carpenter again. lie allowed only three singles while bene­fiting from three double plays from the team that led the majors. 
"Our key is to make him throw pitches and get him out of there," San Diego's Hyan 
<~ouldn't make it 

through the lifth. his second-shortest outing of' the season, and gave up eight runs on eight hits. 
The Padres had bonn plan­ning to pitch Peavy in Game 4 on Sunday in San Diego on reg­ular rnst if the series goes that far. 
Now, the likely starter is Adam Eaton, who had been slotted for Game 5. 
The Cardinals got to Pea9y immediately. With one out in the first, Edmonds hit his 11th career postseason homer to thn opposite field to give St. Louis the lead. 
Five straight batters reaelwd safely with one out in the third as the Cardinals scored three more timns. 
A basns-loadnd wild pitch by Peavy that didn't even reach the dirt allowed one run to score and Sanders' inl'inld hit drove in two more. 
In tho l'if'th, four straight Cardinals reached with one out. Edmonds began tho rally with a s h a r p g r o u n d n r o IT Peavy's glovn, Albert Pujols sin­gled and Larry Walker walkml to set up Sanders' grand slam. 
The Padres had 13 hits, but night came in thn last two innings. 
"I think anytime you're down night runs and you nnd up get­ting the winning run at tho plato, I think that shows a lot of' character and heart of' the club," Bochy said. 
"They were battling to tlw end." 
Khalil (;reenn had a sacrifi(~e 11y of'!' Cardinals reliever Brad Thompson in tho snvnnth and Young homered ol'f' Bandy Flores to start the (~ighth. Mark Loretta and Brian Giles had HBI singlns in the ninth. 



Recycle The Observer. 




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVJCE~ page 18 
Women's Volleyball Big East Conference 

team  coni'.  perc.  overall  
louisville  4-0  1.000  14-0  
Notre Dame  3-0  1.000  11-1  
Villanova  3-1  0.750  13-4  
Syracuse  3-1  0.750  11-6  
Cincinnati  3-1  0.750  9-6  
Pittsburgh  3-1  0.750  10-7  
West Virginia  2-2  0.500  12-5  
Marquette  2-2  0.500  8-7  
St. John's  1-2  0.333  15-5  
Connecticut  1-2  0.333  1-7  
Seton Hall  1-3  0.250  7-9  
Rutgers  1-3  0.250  6-11  
Georgetown  1-3  0.250  5-11  
DePaul  0-3  0.000  3-11  
USF  0-4  0.000  1-11  

perc. 
1.000 0.917 0.765 0.647 0.600 0.588 0.706 0.533 0.750 0.500 0.438 0.353 0.312 0.214 0.083 

Men's Soccer National Poll 
team  record  Preo.  
1  New Mexico  8-0-0  NR  
2  North Carolina  6-0-1  3  
3  California  6-0-1  5  
4  Akron  8-0-0  7  
5  Indiana  4-0-3  1  
6  Old Dominion  5-1-1  18  
7  Farlelgh Dickinson  6·0·1  10  
8  St. John's  4·1-3  8  
9  Duke  5·1-1  11  
10  Missouri State  6·0-2  14  
11  Virginia  5·1-1  4  
12  Santa Clara  5·2-0  13  
13  Connecticut  5·2-1  12  
14  Wake Forest  5·2·0  15  
15  Washington  6·1-0  24  
16  Maryland  5·3-0  6  
17  Tulsa  3·2-3  NR  
18  Pennsylvania  5·1·0  NR  
19  Binghamton  7-1-1  21  
20  Creighton  4-1-2  9  
21  Cincinnati  5·2-1  NR  
22  Clemson  4·2·1  17  
23  UClA  4·2·0  25  
.  24  New Hampshire  6·1·1  23  
25  Georgetown  6·2·0  NR  

Women's Soccer National Poll 
team record Prev. 
1 North Carolina 10·0·0 1 2 Penn State 10·0·0 2 3 Portland 9·0·0 3 4 UClA 8·1·0 4. 5 Santa Clara 7·1·1 5 6 NOTRE DAME 9·1·0 6 7 Virginia 7-2·1 13 8 Boston College 7·0·1 9 9 Duke 7-1·1 7 10 Pepperdine 8·0·1 11 11 Wake Forest 5·1·1 8 12 Brigham Young 9·0·1 15 13 Texas A&M 7·1·1 14 14 Florida State 8·1·0 12 15 California 7-2·1 9 16 Connecticut 7·2·1 18 17 Florida 6·2·1 17 18 Marquette 9·1-1 20 19 Cal State Fullerton 7·2·0 25 20 Tennessee 4·4·1 NR 21 West Virginia 4·3·3 23 22 Michigan 5·2·2 NR 23 Cal Poly 6·1-3 19 
24 Arizona 4-2·2 22 25 Nebraska 6·3·0 NR 
around the dial 
MLB 

Red Sox at White Sox 6 p.m., ESPN Yankees at Angels 9 p.m., ESPN Astros at Braves 3 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL Miami (Ohio) at Northern Illinois 6:30p.m., ESPN 2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO 
Overall No. 1 draft pick 
Alex Smith was promoted 
to be the San Francisco 
49ers' starting quarter­
back on Tuesday, ascend­
ing to the job after just 
four games as Tim Rattay's 
backup. 

Smith will make his first 
NFL start on Sunday 
against Peyton Manning 
and the Indianapolis Colts 
at Candlestick Park. The 
former Utah star played in 
two of the 49ers' first four 
games, mopping up in 
losses to Philadelphia and 
Arizona."I feel that Alex 
gives us the best chance to win, and I believe he's ready," San Francisco coach Mike Nolan said. "Tim has handled every­thing very well, but at this time in the process, I believe it's time to get Alex in the game.... At 1-3, we didn't draft Alex to just sit him on the bench. At 1-3, I believe we need to begin to utilize him." 
Rattay completed 57.7 percent of his passes this season for 6 77 yards, five touchdowns and six inter­ceptions. He compiled impressive statistics in a season-opening win over St. Louis and a last-minute loss to Dallas. 
But the 49ers' offense has been mostly terrible, with stark deficiencies in time of possession, total yards (1,989-995) and points (132-76) -and Rattay has been shaky and indecisive in the fourth quarter, when San Francisco has been outscored 48-0.The 49ers managed just 168 total yards in last Sunday's 31­14 loss to Arizona in Mexico City. San Francisco's offense was shut out by the Cardinals, though Smith went 6-of-10 -his first NFL comple­tions -for 34 yards after Rattay was pulled in the fourth quarter. 
Smith was the 49ers' 
starter in their first two exhibition games. but he struggled to move the offense. His throws fre­quently were hurried and inaccurate, and he still was learning the intrica­cies of the West Coast offense. 
Nolan gave the starting job to Rattay, Jeff Garcia's longtime backup who had an impressive preseason. The seventh-round draft pick started nine games in 2004 while recovering from three injuries. 
At the time, Nolan said it was important not to be "wishy-washy" with the decision so Rattay could play without fear. 
IN BRIEF 

Leinart hurt by late hit against Arizona State 
LOS ANGELES -Southern California quarterback Matt Leinart's black beard disguised evidence of the seven stitches he needetl after briefly getting knocked out of the game against Arizona State. 
His feelings about the late hit by Robert James, however, were quite apparent T~,Iesday. 
"I don't understand the philosophy of cheap shots, but I'm not one to talk about that," Leinart said. "Maybe people do want to knock out a quarterback from what I've accom­plished. It's just normal." 
He went to the sidelines for a few plays in the first quarter of Saturday's 38-28 comeback victory by the No. 1 Trojans (4-0, 2-0 Pac­1 0). Arizona State coach Dirk Koetter later apologized to the Heisman Trophy winner. 
"lie was the only one, though," said Leinart, who acknowledged that 
he was a little foggy after the hit. Tigers si~n Leyland to manager s position 
DETROIT -Jim Leyla·nd was enjoying his leisurely life working as a major league scout for the St. Louis Cardinals. 
The 60-year-old could've been con­tent with his managerial career that included a World Series title, two NL Manager of the Year awards and three division championships. 
But he wasn't -so Leyland accepted the challenge of trying to turn around the Detroit Tigers. 
Detroit signed Leyland on Tuesday to a three-year contract to replace manager Alan Trammell, who was fired a day earlier after three sea­sons. 
Leyland found he was regretting his last experience as a manager six years ago in Colorado more than he was reminiscing about leading the Florida Marlins and Pittsburgh Pirates. 

Hart resigns as general manger ol Rangers 
ARLINGTON, Texas-John Hart stepped down Tuesday as general manager of the Texas Rangers, clearing the way for 28-year-old Jon Daniels to become the youngest GM in major league history. 
Hart's resignation came two days after the Hangers finished 79-83, their third losing season in four years under Hart and their fifth since winning their last AL West title in 1999. 
Hart, whose teams won six division titles and twice went to the World Series in his last seven years in Cleveland ending in 2001, will be replaced by Daniels, who at 28 years, 41 days, is about 10 months younger than Theo Epstein was when he became Boston's GM on Nov. 25, 2002. 
Daniels was promoted from assis­tant GM and Hart will remain a team consultant. 
. 
';---~-~.--~-­
' ' 
.· 



,­
, ; 

r 
page 20 Wednesday, October 5, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 

Vaas 
continued from page 24 
And he said the main part of his job during such a hot streak is to make Quinn work to do what he does best consistently. 
"I think there are a lot of things Brady has done well, and you just continue to remind him of what he needs to do to have that consistency," Vaas said. "Trust me, it's not rocket sci­ence, it's just very little things now and then. Brady just con­tinues to practice and practice ... and as a result he becomes more consistent." 
Vaas' experiences with coach­ing in the NFL and in college are memory banks for his cur­rent coaching style. Since the sixth grade, Vaas said, he want­ed to be a coach. As he lives that dream, he constantly is reminded of his own develop­ment as a football coach and a football mind. 
"Growing up, I watched [Boston Celtics coach] Red Auerbach a lot on television, watched the Celtics games or whatever it may be, so it's been an ongoing process," Vaas said. "When people say you're a stu­dent of the game, you're also a student of your profession. You watch different coaches on TV conduct interviews, you watch different coaches with practices, how they interact with people, you ask [questions]." 
He feels privileged to have one of the most well-respected quarterback tutors in the nation in Weis coaching along with him and teaching him new aspects of the game. 
"One of the exciting things for me to come here was to learn from Charlie and to see how he interacts with the quarterback," Vaas said. "So when that hap­pens, it's a learning experience for me and I relish that oppor­tunity." 

Vaas has coached many quar­terbacks since taking his first job as running backs and quar­terbacks coach at Allegheny College in 1974. But he was wary of naming a favorite. 
"I don't want to insult any­body else along the way, but right now Brady is my favorite because he's the one I'm with," Vaas said. 
Note: 
+ Seven Irish assistant coach­es will be on the road recruiting Thursday and Friday. Weis, Vaas and tight ends/assistant special teams coach Bernie Parmalee will remain in South Bend to be Weis' "skeleton crew," as the head coach described it Monday, for Thursday's practice. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Observer Brady Quinn, left, hands off to Darius Walker in Notre Dame's 49-28 win over Purdue Saturday. 
Interhall 
continued from page 24 
defender Judith Kaczmarek ran back to inside the 10-yard line as time ran out. 
In the game as a whole, there were two interceptions and seven sacks -three by Cavanaugh and four by Lyons. Lyons also was able to put pressure on Huffer on every down, forcing unsure pass­es by Cavanaugh, and to contain the stellar Chaos running game effectively. 
"This was the best game we've played so far this year," Lions coach John Harrington said. "It showed we have some serious tal­ent. If not for a few bad breaks, we could have won." Next week Cavanaugh will face Howard, while Lyons will take on Walsh. 
Lewis 18, Badin 9 
The Lewis Chicks started quick­ly and didn't let up as they sound­ly defeated Badin Tuesday night. 
The Bulll"rogs had no answer for Lewis quarterback Elisa Valdez as she threw for three touchdown passes. 
"They were more aggressive," said Badin freshman Allison Lang. "They all seemed to want it a little bit more than we did." 
Lewis' intensity was apparent throughout the game, not only on ofl"ense but on the defensive side of the ball as well. 
The Chicks didn't allow Badin's offense to smell the end zone until late in the fourth quarter. 
With only minutes left to play, Badin quarterback Katie Rose Hackney found wide receiver·Meg Charlebois for a 15-yard touch­down. 
The same two, in reverse order, hooked up for a three-point con­version as Hackney was on the receiving end of a wide receiver reverse throwback from Charlebois. 
This cut the Lewis lead to 18-9, but the Bullfrogs couldn't muster any more points. 
This result leaves Badin with little hope for the playoffs as the Bullfrogs are 1-3-1 with only one game left to play. 
Lewis, on the other hand, has won two games in a row and is picking up momentum for the playoffs. 
Walsh 19, Howard 0 
The Walsh Wild Women, behind a stingy defensive performance, shut out the Howard Ducks Tuesday night at Riehle West Field. 
Wild Women sophomore cor­nerback Julie Campbell account­ed for two of three Walsh inter­ceptions and ran one back for a touchdown to seal the score at 19-0 going into halftime. 
"The defense played really well and just held the score to where it was after halftime," Campbell said. 
Adding to an impressive effort by the defense, the Walsh offense was able to capitalize on two key turnovers that resulted in excel­lent field position. 
Walsh quarterback Mary Sullivan ran for one touchdown in 
I 

the first quarter and followed this early effort with a touchdown pass to C.G. Low in the second. 
Sullivan was also able to con­nect with Marie Brenner and Laurie Wasikowski for several key completions on these scoring drives. 
"Mary is really consistent and just makes big plays when we need them," Campbell said. 
The outcome of this contest came as a huge disappointment for the Ducks, who were looking to end their season on positive footing with a victory. 
Despite the loss, Howard sopho­more linebacker Laura Plis com­mended her team's effort and was quick to point out the talent the Wild Women possess on offense. 
"Our offense was really able to move the ball downfield in a cou­ple of our drives and we really had some opportunities to put some points on the .board but things just weren't going our way tonight," Plis said. 
"[Walsh] has a really quick quarterback who is also a good passer." 
The Ducks were able to drive the ball twice within the Wild Women 5-yard line but were unable to turn their offensive pro­duction into scores. 
"We had a couple of tough breaks on offense with those interceptions coming off of tipped passes and were just unable to take advantage of some opportu­nities to score," Plis said. 
Despite the tough season for the Ducks, the team is still hopeful looking ahead to next year. Howard ended the season without a win or an offensive touchdown, but showed remarkable improve­ment on offense throughout the course of the year. 
"Regardless of how the scores look, our offense really showed its improvement tonight," Plis said. "They brought us to within strik· ing distance twice and moved the ball. 
"We're looking forward to next year with one of four seniors coming back and a lot of under· classmen who really came togeth­er and improved as the year wore on." 
The Wild Women, meanwhile, look ahead to a difficult playoff schedule and seek to hang tough against a strong field of competi­tors. 
"We're definitely optimistic about the playoffs and we're hopeful to prove ourselves," Campbell said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu, Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu and Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL-GOLD LEAGUE 
Duran dominates as Farley stops BP 
ALLISON Observer A Badin runner runs tries to avoid the tackle of a Howard defender during the teams' 6-6 tie Sunday. 

By ADAM FONTANAROSA 
Sports Writer 

Farley beat Breen-Phillips 19­6 Tuesday night at Stepan Field in a hard-fought battle as two first-half touchdowns by the Finest sealed the win. 
On the opening drive of the game, Farley quarterback and captain Katie Popik found jun­ior wideout Diane Duran for the first Finest touchdown. After the Farley defense forced a punt, Popik came back to throw another touchdown pass to Duran. 
Following an interception by a Breen-Phillips defensive back, it looked like the Babes might have a chance to make a late charge before halftime, but time expired before they could complete the drive. Farley missed both conversions and the score stood at 12-0 at the half. 
Breen-Phillips opened with the ball in the second half and the ensuing drive was the only one where the Babes offense seemed to fmd success. After a long, penalty-sustained drive, the Breen-Phillips quarterback hit a Babe wide receiver for a touchdown. After a missed con­version the score was 12-6 still in favor of Farley. 
Two drives later, however, the Finest came back strong as Popik threw her third touch­down pass of the game, this time to another junior receiver, Annie Parrett. The first success­ful conversion for either team followed and pushed the score to 19-6. Breen-Phillops did get two more opportunities to put points on the board but both drives ended with the Babes turning the ball over on downs. 
The difference in the game seemed to lie with the play of the passing game for both teams. Farley's wide 
outs dominated the BP defense, grabbing three touch­down passes and catching numerous balls, while the Babe offense was plagued by dropped balls and overthrown passes. 
Popik raved about the play of her receiving corps. "They dominated the game," she said. 
With a 1-3 record and two more games to go, the Finest are thinking playoffs. 
"Our defense has played great and our offense is fmally 
Contact Adam Fontanarosa at afontana@nd.edu 

Wednesday, October 5, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Crusaders 
continued from page 24 
The Crusaders have played a daunting early-snason sdwdule and come through it fairly unsr.atlwd. 
Thny playnd No. 21 UCLA hack-and-forth hnf'ore falling 2S-:{O, 30-21, :{0-24, 24-:W, 'J-15. Bnl"orn that, they fell to No. X Wisconsin in a tight match, 21-30, 21-30, 22-:{0. 
Thn Crusadnrs arn 2-0 against Big Fast opponnnts this snason. Thny dnf'eated 1>1~1'aul and Villanova. Tlw team will also play Marq untte latnr this season. 
"I think thn challenge for us is that they am a really hal­anced of'f'ensivn tnam," Brown said. "And that mak11s it a lit­tin tougher to stop when they've got five hitters that all take a decent amount of swings, as well as their set­ters are pretty accurate ­and pretty offensive also." 
After playing UCLA and Wisconsin tough, the Crusaders will be gunning for their first upset of' a ranked team this season. 
They'll be trying to end a streak -a losing streak against ranked teams. But, at the same time, they'll be try­ing to keep their winning strnak against Big. East oppo­nents alive. 
Though thn Irish fell 3-2 in last season's early regular snason match, they played the Crusaders in the NCAA tour­nament and won, 3-l. 
While the Irish have played four straight road matches and have four morn road matches to go after tonight's home match, they're fully aware that, this time, home could be more difficult than the road. 

Their preparation has been satisfactory as Brown said they had a good practice today and a helpful film ses­sion, Brown said. 
"That was good for us," she said. "It was good to look at some film and get a good idea some of the offensive plays patterns that they run." 
Though this is a mid-week, non-conference match, Brown and her players realize they're in for a challenge. 
When asked if her players are taking Valparaiso lightly or as a break from Big East play, she didn't hesitate. 
"Not at all," Brown said. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
Marquette 
continued from page 24 
Virginia, Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark said the team has been finding its stride. 
"I think guys are just starting to grow," Clark said. "When you lose five starters from the previous year, it takes a little while bnfore they really start to believe in themselves. I think we're making progress in that." 
After finishing a four-game homestand with a record of 2­1-1, Notre Dame plays at Marquette today before return­ing to face Connecticut. 
It is currently in a four-team tie for third place in the has not lost to the Irish since 1988. Ilowever, the teams have not played in 15 years. 

Clark is confident going into today's contnst. 
"I think it will be a good test, but every game on tlw sdwdule is a good test." he said, noting that the Big East is traditionally one of the strongest confer­ences in tho nation. 
"Its one of the hard things but it's also one of tho good things," Clark said. "You go into every game knowing you have to play to your potential because if you don't it. could be tough ... Thnrn's no nasy gamns on our schedule." 
Against Wost Virginia, the 
Irish IPd thn~e 
times but gav1~ 
up a goal with 

Blue League of the loss than f"ivn
"We're playing a 
Big East minutos to play
team that is very 
Conference with and won~ Connecticut. Seton well-organized and unabln to scorn Hall, and West in ovnrtimo. Jon 
consistantly ... has 
Virginia. l.apira notehnd
really conceded very 
Although a goal and t.wo 
r.

Marquette is 1-3-I Jew games. " assists for his in the Big East and J"irst rarnPr seventh in the Blun four-point
Bobby Clark
Leagun division, it gamn, while
Irish coach 

could be a formi­dable opponent. 
"W11're playing a team that is very wolf-organ­ized and consistently, apart from its gamo against Connecticut, has really concnd­ed very f11w gamos," Clark said. 
Tho Irish left for Wisconsin on Twlsday. Clark said his toam prepared for this ganw like any other. 
"We look at game tape, and we talk to people who have played [Marquette!," he said. "We'll watch game tapn tomor­row morning at the hotel ... practice, discuss some of the things ... that would be it." 
Marquette has given up 12 goals in nine games, but six of those scores came in a blowout loss to Connecticut on Oct. 1. The team is 3-1-0 at home and rnidlinlder Nato 
Norman has 
bnnn a l'orcP in 

tlw front, tying Lapira for a 
tnam-high t.lm~e goals. 
Ian Etlwrington has two goals and o1w assist whiln .John S tn p lw ns has one goa I a 11 d · thn~n assists. Frnshnwn havn also contributnd to tlw tnam on 
both ol"fnnse and dnfnnse. 
"Tiwrn's bnn11 snvnral of thn 
frnshnwn who havn establislwd 
roles in thn tnam. which is 
gr11at that you'vn got sonw of 
tlwm involvnd," Clark said. 
Notrn I>anw has high-calibnr 
playnrs, but thn snason has 
shown it call upset a top-I 0 
tnam and lose to an unranknd 
opponent. Thn Irish nned con­
sistnncy. 
"That's the intnrnsting thing," 
Clark said. "Wn can win nvery 
game and losn nvery ganw and 
you havn to nmw to play. If wn 
don't come to play and wn'rn 
not prepared wn can rue that, 
you can rngrnt it." 
Notes: 
+ 
Clark nxpncts Dal1~ Hnllas back for thn Marqunttn game. The senior defonder has missnd four games dun to injury. 

"I think tho dnl"nnso is cer­tainly lstrongnrl with Hnllas eoming back," Clark said. "lin's missnd four ganws now with injuries ... That hnlps to solidi­fy, give a hit ol' continuity to thn back, to thn dd"ensn." 

+ 
Thn Irish playnd Marqunttn annually from 1979-90, but tlw tnams havn not mnt siiH~n. Tlw Irish am h-5-1 all timn against tlw Goldnn Hagins but hold only a 2-4-0 record in Wisconsin. Thn last mnoting was a 4-0 Marquette win in IIJIJO. 


Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


I
I I I 
I 
page 22 
I 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Tough challenge looms before trip 
Saint Mary's will face Adrian tonight then play nine road games 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
Finishing a season with nine of the final 10 matches on the road would frighten most coaches. 
Saint Mary's coach Julie Schrocder-Biek doesn't see this schedule as a problem. 
"We're a better team on the road," she said. 
Saint Mary's begins a long stretch of away matches begin­ning tonight with a 7 p.m. game at Adrian. The Belles have played six consec­utive home match­
es over the past "There are home The Belles three weeks, com­game pressures focused on defense piling a 3-3 record. in practice
that you don't face 

Schroeder-Biek Monday, and 
thought her team on the road. It's Schroeder-Biek could benefit from just a different was pleased with getting away from the results. 
challenge for our

distractions "I saw some
team.''

involved with play­good things both ing at home. individually and as "There are home a team," she said. 
Julie Schroeder-Biek 

game pressures Following
Belles coach 

that you don't face on the road," she said. "You can't control as many things on the road, though. It's just a different challenge for our team." 
The Belles will face a challenge tonight. 
The Bulldogs (12-3, 4-2 MIAA) enter the match with momentum following a 3-game win over Kalamazoo Friday. 
Adrian also has notched a win over a solid Alma team, which swept the Belles in three games earlier this season. 
The Bulldogs' strength is their attack game, led by two-time MlAA player of the week Lindsay Eschelman. 
The outside attacker leads the team with a .376 hitting percent­age and averages 6.13 kills per game. 
Schroeder-Biek said the Belles may have to game plan for Esehelman specifically. 
"She's a strong attacker, and they are a good team," she said. "We will have to overload our 
. ·t··· · 
s····...... ·.····· .·· ... ...··.···...· .
······.·.·.·t··.····.· ...·...,
Wrt e por s. Calll--4543. 

~U@l ~~@luu~@l~~~ ~11 )E©::rc!lcgfr~cm )Eoo~rlllc~~ 
Present this Ad for $4 Burritos ALL DAY (11am-midnight) · Now open on Sundays from 2pm-10pm 
1724 N. Ironwood Dr. 
(next to Nick's Patio) 

Saturday's loss, 
the Belles' record sits at 8-10, 2-4 in the MIAA. 
Saint Mary's is in sixth place in the MIAA with all 10 of its remaining matches to be played against conference foes. 
After facing Adrian tonight and Albion Saturday, the Belles will have played all conference oppo­nents once. 
They will play each of the MIAA teams again during the fmal eight games, meaning Saint Mary's fate will be in its own hands. 
Schroeder-Biek thinks her team has the proper attitude heading into the second half of the season. 
"They've seen almost everyone once, and now they are ready for the challenge of playing them again," she said. 
"The team has high goals, and they are real excitedfor the upcoming games." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 

blocking if she causes us trou­ble." 
Saint Mary's faced a strong attacking team in its 3-0 loss to Bethel on Saturday. The Belles used dillerent defensive rotations to combat the Pilots' ofl"ense with some success, playing scrappy defense to earn points. 
Despite her team's solid defen­sive play over the weekend. Schroeder-Biek felt there was room for improvement in her team's blocking. 
"We didn't block poorly [Saturday]; we were just a little off on our timing," she said. "We have to make some small adjust­ments." 
A strong blocking game will be crucial for the Belles. Shelly Bender anchors the middle of the Saint Mary's defense. She 
leads the team 
with 13 blocks. 

The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 5, 2005 
SMC SOCCER 
Kala111azoo too quick for Belles 

KATE FENLONfThe Observer 
Belles defender Shannon Culbertson, left, strives for the ball along with Hornets forward Aliza 
Caplan. Saint Mary's fell to Kalamazoo Tuesday, 1-0. 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
They came within a fingertip of mounting a late comeback, but the Belles could not put the finishing touches on a hard­fought game, losing 1-0 at home to Kalamazoo Tuesday. 
The Hornets knocked off the Belles in an intense mid-season MIAA match up and dropped Saint Mary's to 5-3 in confer­ence play and 6-5 overall. 
The Hornets scored their lone goal a mere five minutes into the game when Kalamazoo midfielder Sarah Arnosky slid the ball past Saint Mary's goal­keeper Laura Heline for the score. Saint Mary's head coach Caryn Mackenzie described the play as a breakdown in the backfield due to a lack of com­munication. 
The Belles' best scoring chance came when attacker Mandy Thomson received the ball above the goalkeeper's box in the waning minutes of the 
Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

second half and pivoted to shoot. Her shot arced high and was headed for the back of the net, just below the crossbar, when Kalamazoo goalie Jennie Smith jumped and managed to brush the ball up over the goal with her fingertips. 
The Belles got down in the opening minutes of each period and were forced to play catch­up for a majority of the first and second half. They pres­sured well, and contained the ball in the Hornets' zone in an attempt to capitalize on one of their many scoring chances. 
"We came out pretty Oat and they took advantage; then they put it in the net," Mackenzie said. "For the next 85 minutes we spent time spinning our wheels trying to figure out how to put the ball in the back of the net. We just couldn't do it." 
Despite a consistent attack aimed at the Hornets' goal, the Belles did not get another scor­ing chance similar to Thomson's in the remaining regulation time. 
Lauren Hinton came within inches of tying the game, as well. The freshman attacker received a pass up the middle from midfielder Carrie Orr and turned to boot a hard shot on net. The ball sailed just over the crossbar, though, leaving the Belles scrambling to get back in the game. 
"I just think it was a very physical game; it suited their style of play and not necessari­ly ours," Mackenzie said of the game's rough play. "You have got to respond, whatever the situation is and it was on our home field. We just really did­n't step up and do that today." 
Heline kept the Belles within striking distance during the second half by making several sliding saves. The Belles tallied 14 shots while Kalamazoo fired just six shots at lleline. 
Saint Mary's will next play at noon Saturday at home in a rematch with rival Hope. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

'·, 
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WI-i.ITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
T !HE 5Ctill~ BEND COMMON 
A/...f?,/ (11-lf ME/'J I 
tHE.IR.. STUDENTS ,AND 
NOBo~ LIFT~ A FINOER. Oyt;. R.. "'('i-tF-RE. WHA r ])o WE ){) ~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Spur on a climbing iron 5 Temple V.I.P. 1 o Less than a one-star movie 14 Saragossa's river 15 Lake Geneva 
spa 16 Mishmash 17 Macedonian 
king to those who knew him when 
20 Old-fashioned ingredient 21 Medieval merchants' guild 22 Dug up 23 Pitts of old Hollywood 24 Quantity: Abbr. 
25 Czar to those who knew him when 
33 Waters naturally 
34 Summit 35 Bagel filler 36 Herr Bismarck 37 Store away 39 Be ominous 40 "_ the fields 
we go" 41 It's a long story 42 Fiddle with 43 Prussian king to 
those who knew him when 47 "Lady" preceder, often 48 Put up 49 Draconian 52 Aplomb 54 Wanted notice: Abbr. 
57 Czarina to those who knew her when 
60 Mosque V.I.P. 61 Use a soapbox 62 Kill 63 New York's 
Carnegie_ 64 Whimpered 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
I )A'j \NE Hn ·nu. M If\1 Sll LT OUR_ N t=. v-.J 
W~-tERE rf 'SToNE F..f\lfMN<E E'H 7? 1--\\..1 e.:IS . I SA'f Yo you. ~Now WHAT FOR "Ti-fAf "IHIN(J C.OST ?? 
"7}f/S IS '1/1{/'R 6 E:NTLEMEN. 
WILLSHORTZ 
65 1956 hotspot 
DOWN 1 Reverse, e.g. 2Well 3 Unfettered 4 Sexy lass 5 Go over and 
over 6 Way of 
approach 7 Brief lives a Stripped 9 Third line on a 
ballot: Abbr. 10 Kind of shark 11 "The Good 
Earth" heroine 12 Difficult place to walk 13 Hopalong 
Cassidy actor 18 "_life!" 19 Commingle 23 Stoicism 
Puzzle by Mel Taub 
founder 38 86 is a high one 46 Like some coins 54 Leigh Hunt's 24 Yemeni port and salads " Ben39 Stain

25 86 is a high one Adhem"
49 Lose traction 
26 Gormandizer 41 Jumping 50 Far from risque 55 Dance exercise 

garbage cans on a 51 Enumerator's 27 British chemical 
lab 56 German auto measurement motorcycle, e.g. ending pioneer 
52 Indiana town 28 Like the corn 42 Dolts 58 Quaint dance 
where Cole 44 Moolahgod Yum Kax Porter was born
29 Prefix with 59 Yellow Pages center 45 Narcotic 53 Iridescent stone displays 30 Minister's calling, with 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
''the" 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 31 Bulldogger's 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday venue crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HARNC 

[ J I tJ 
@2005 Tribune Media Servrces, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RIGMY 

I [J tJ
tPEXLUD 

IJ I I I 
www.jumble.com
tREMMIO J 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


> 
THIS H£:1.-PS WHEN DOING THE DISHES. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

J I [ I I 
Answer here: 

"[I I]"[ I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: GROOM FLOUT TYPHUS MODIFYYesterday's Answer: The street peddler's wares were always­
SOLD"OUr' 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITIES HORN ON TIHS I>AY: Rachacl Leigh Cook, 26; Alicia Silverstone, 29: Susan Sarandon, 59: Anne Rice, 64 
Happy Hirthday: Don't say you can't when it's so important that you try. You will have staying power and some very unique ideas, so exercise your right to follow a dream. Love relationships may undergo some problems this year. Talk things through for the sake of everyone involved. Your numbers arc 9, II, 23, 25,34,39 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You will be overreacting and very likely to make a fool ofyourselfifyou don't calm down and think bcfi1rc you retaliate. Someone may be trying to push your buttons, but your job will be not to respond. •• TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You have to clear up all the loose ends that arc getting in the way of your progress. Once you have, you will be free to start something new. An interesting change will occur, so take part in an organized event."** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do something that will relax you and put you in a creative frame of mind. Social gatherings will help you tigure out what you want to do next. Start taking better care of yourself. ••••• CANCER (.June 21-July 22): Someone you live with or are close to is likely to give you a hard time. Get out of the house and do something to help bring about an image change. Learn more about something you want to pursue in the future. •• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Plan your next vacation or take a short trip to somewhere informative and fun. The more time you spend with your peers, the better you will feel about yourself and your accomplishments. This is a great time to follow your dreams. * * • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make a move from one career to another or even get a job if you have been out of work. This is a perfect day f(Jr business deals, increasing your income or making an investment. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will find it difficult to control your emotions. Try to look at the bright side of things and stay positive. If you want good things to come back to you, that's what you have to send out. ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It will he difficult to keep something a secret today. Meddlers will want to get involved in your affairs. Someone will twist your words and could jeopardize your position. • • • SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A chance to step into the spotlight has to be taken. You will make a huge impact on someone you arc trying to impress. Put time aside to spend with someone special. •• • * CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Take one thing at a time. As soon as you overload your plate, you will fall behind and make mistakes. Someone will be waiting for you to slip up. Put otT dealing with large institutions, if possible. •• AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your mind will be a million miles away. Travel, learning and interacting with people who stimulate your mind should be on your agenda. Love is looking very promising: if you want to make a commitment, this is a great day. ••••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Money matters can be dealt with. The opportunity to clear up an old debt looks good. Helping someone who can no longer do f(Jr him-or herself will lead to a surprise you don't expect. ••• 
Hirthday Baby: You have a heart of gold. You arc willing to help everyone around you and are forever trying to maintain the peace. You arc fair, just and a true blue friend. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor.fim, eugenialast.comfor co~jidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
37 1939 co-star of past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Haley and Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Bolger solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to:
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two eampuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State _____ Zip______ 

r 
I I 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
QB coach Vaas plays key role in Quinn's developtnent 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL-BLUE LEAGUE 
Chaos continues 
Cavanaugh remains undefeated, handles Lyons in 13-6 battle 
By JAY FITZPATRICK, GREG ARBOGAST and JASON GALVAN Sports Wrirers 
Even though Cavanaugh won Tuesday night's game against Lyons at Riehle West field, 13-6, the Lions can claim a small victo­ry -they stopped the Choas' streak of consecutive shutouts at 
I four. 
Howard lines up against Walsh in women's interhall action With time running out in the 
Tuesday. The Wild Women defeated the Ducks 19-0. second half, Lions quarterback 
Kim Murphy threw a 41-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Meghan Reagan to end the streak. 
Despite ending their shutout run, the Chaos improved their record to 5-0 and remained the only unbeaten team in the women's Blue League. 
Cavanaugh put the nail in the coffin just before halftime when Chaos defensive back Aislinn Doyle intercepted a Lions pass and ran it back to the 7 -yard line before finally being tackled. Despite losing six yards on a sack by Bridget Trainor, Chaos quar­terback Lisa Huffer found receiv­er Tara Brown in the end zone to make the score 13-0 before half. 
The first touchdown came on Cavanaugh's first possession of the game when Ruffer threw a 19-yard pass to Nancy Powaga. 
After failing to score on fourth­and-goal late in the game, the Lyons defense stepped up and faced the vaunted Chaos ofl'ense. The Lions forced a punt and got the ball back inside their own 20­yard line. 
After driving to midfield, Reagan caught the ball at about the Chaos 35-yard line, broke free from the Cavanaugh defenders and outran the rest of the defense to make the score 13-6. 
Just before the half, Lyons showed some promising defense with an interception that Lyons 
see INTERHALL/page 20 

MEN's SoccER 
Golden Eagles eager for Irish 
Seventeen years have passed since last ND win over Marquette 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
A 2-2-1 record in conference play is solid, but it doesn't indi­cate an unbeatable team and, therefore, does not instill fear in opponents. 
The Irish are set to change that as they travel to Marquette, a team they haven't beaten since 1988. Coming off a 3-3 tie with Big East foe West 
see MARQUETTE/page 21 

By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
There are a few secret ingre­dients to Notre Dame's passing success. And one of those ingre­dients is named Peter Vaas. 
Vaas replaced previous quar­terbacks coach David Cutcliffe in the offseason when Cutcliffe resigned for health reasons. Al)d though Charlie Weis is a higher-profile quarterback teacher, the head coach notices Vaas' positive influence on his thriving starter, Brady Quinn. 
"I have total confidence that [Quinn] is being coached by an upper~level person," Weis said in Monday's press conference about his attitude during prac­tice. "It frees me up from having to worry about what [Quinn is] going to do ifl am not there." 
Since 2000, Vaas has been the head coach of both the Cologne Centurions and Berlin Thunder in NFL Europe. Earlier in his career, he coached running backs and quarterbacks at Notre Dame in 1990 and 1991, respectively. 
Now, the return to South Bend 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish refusing to take Valpo squad lightly 
Notre Dame hoping to avoid a repeat of last season's upset 
By TOM DORWART Sports Wrirer 
Even after a long run against top-ranked teams and solid Big East foes, the No. 10 Irish don't think they are getting a break tonight when they take on Valparaiso at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Not after losing last sea­son's regular season match 
against the Crusaders or after seeing the way the Crusaders have played so far this season. 
"I think they basically have the same team that they had last year," coach Debbie Brown said. "They have a new libero and a new defen­sive specialist. Their hitters are the same. Their setter is the same, and they're very experienced. 
"They're very comfortable playing with each other." Valparaiso enters the match with a 14-3 record. 
see CRUSADERS/page 21 

has been a welcome homecom­ing of sorts for Vaas. As the man working closest on a day-to-day basis with the quarterbacks, he has worked behind the scenes as Quinn has amassed career­and program-high numbers ­
65.3 completion percentage, 1,621 yards passing, 13 touch­downs and just three intercep­tions. 
Quinn is raising eyebrows with his play, but Vaas said he is not surprised with the quarter­back's success. He is pleased. 
see VAAS/page 20 


SMC VOI.LEYBAll 
SMC SOCCER 

~Fl 
MlB ~ ~L PlAYOFFS 

MlB-Al PlAYOFFS 
MLB -A! PlAYOFFS 
LLI 

No. 1 draft pick Alex 
(.) Saint Mary's at Kalamazoo 1 St. Louis 8 Chicago 14 New York 4 
Smith was named the
z Adrian Saint Mary's 0 San Diego 5 Boston 2 Los Angeles 2 
starting quarterback for 
::5 

the 49ers' game Sunday 
The Belles start stretch 
Sarah Arnosky scored 
Reggie Sanders led 

The White Sox hit five 
Mike Mussina pitched 
c::s 

against the Colts. 
of road games tonight 
to lead the Hornets past 
the Cardinals with six 
six scoreless innings to

. home runs on their way 
c:r: 
against the Bulldogs. 
the Belles Tuesday. 
RBis, an NL division 

to a rout of last year's 
lead the Yankees. ti series record. 
champions. 
page 22 
page 22 
page 16

page 18 
page 16 
page 22 




