
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 111 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23,2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Hamilton: U.S. still has work to do 
Vice Chair of 9/11 commission discusses threat of terrorism 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writt•r 
I.e<~ II. llamilton, Vkn Chair of' tho IJ/11 commission, spokn at Notrn l>amn Tunsday about a topic that stirs f'nar in the minds of' all w~rwrations-tlw threat of' 
terrorism. Hamilton. who resides in· 
Arlington. V11., spoke to mnmhnrs of the South Bend commu­nity in Dncio Main Stage Tlwatlu at the DeBartolo Contor li>r the 


Pn r f'o r min g Hamilton Arl'i. llamilton was a reprnsentative 
for the state of Indiana for nearly 34 years and is currently is a member of the president's home­land security advisory eouncil. Yet despite his prnstigious posi­tions and long history in the field of international relations, he stood before his audience and admitted that neither he, nor any of the others who worked on the commission report, could promisP that the Unitod States is capable of froeing itsell' from the threat of terrorism. 
"There have been twice as 
many terrorist attacks world­wide since September 11 than in the three years precnding thn attacks," Hamilton said. "I doubt very much if we will <W<~r elimi­nate terrorism." 
Hamilton repeatedly admittml that. though many measures have been taken to prevent futuro attacks, the United States "still has a lot of' work to do." 
In his 55-minute-spne<~h. Hamilton outlined four nwasurns 
see HAMILTON/page 4 

Catnpus radio station finds hotne online 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
A"istant Nt·ws Editor 
Buried in thn midst of the notoriously bad South Bend radio scPnn is a gem waiting to h n disco v<~ r n d . W V F I, Notre I> am~~' s stud n n t-run radio station. is only avail­ahlP to list<mnrs online. 
WVFI's assistant station nranagnr Mairnad Casll said t.hat despitn tlw vinw of some that exrlusivnly online avail­ability is a dnfid<mcy, thn sta­tion has "a largp number of' peopln listening." 
"I fnPI likn wn havn a tight r.orn group and somn random pnople that arn rnlativns or alums or what<wnr listnning, hut on tho wholn I have bonn surprisPd wlwn JWOpln don't 
know who  w·<'  a r<~  or  don't  
know  how  to  listen,"  she  
said.  

Many WVFI worknrs think that it is bntler for tlw sta­tion. whieh is lor.atnd in thn l.aForturw St.udnnt Cnntnr, to only lw available onlinn. 
sec WVFI/pagc 6 


Student Center. All WVFI radio shows are broadcast online. 

Reilly Scholars visit University 
Top academic prospective students brought to ND for weekend visit 
By JARRETT LANTZ 
Nqvs Writer 
As tlw St. Patrick's Day fes­tivilins worn g!~tting underway last Thursday. morn than SO of Notrn Danw's brightnst appli­cants quietly arrived on cam­pus for thn third annual Hnilly Scholars Visitation Weekend. 0 rgan izod by tho 0 fl'ice of Admissions and the Honors Program, the event of'l'ered sonw of Notre Dame's top aca­dnmie prospective students a rhancn to see the campus in an all-expenses-paid visit. 
This year, H5 high S<'.hool seniors at the top of their grad­uating classes attended. The students, who have already bonn admitted to Notre Dame, wore chosen for the program solnly on lhnir academic per­formance and faculty recom­mendations. 
"The Heilly Weekend is for the most a<~ademieally talented students in our applieant pool," said Ol'lieo of Admissions coun­snlor Erin Flynn. "It gives prospective students a broad understanding of what aca­demic and community life is like at Notre Dame." 
During the course of the weekend, the prospects had a chance to experience Notre Dame's atmosphere tirst-hand and take a closer look at Honors Programs in Architeeture, Arts and Ll~tters or Science. 
The Office of Admissions usually does not allow prospee­
tive students to stay over on campus for a weekend ­specifically on a Friday or Saturday. Duo to con11icts dur­ing the month of March, how­ever, the young scholars were able to visit during one of Notre Dame's signature stu­dent holidays. 
"We didn't have any other option · but to host the prospects over St. Patrick's Day weokond," admissions coun­selor .Julia Kelly said. "Spring break took up two March weekends and Easter took up another." 
In order to keep the high school students shielded from the numerous St. Patrick's par­ties, the Oflice of Admissions 
see REILLY/page 4 

~pions 
-return to 
catnpus 

Fencing teanz holds press conference 
By ERIC RETTER 
News Writer 

llnad coaeh .Janusz Bednarski insistnd assistant coach Zoltan Dudas join llw team on stagn as tho Irish hold their press conf'nrnncn Tuesday 
af'tnrnoon upon return­ing from thn NCAA finals al'tm winning tho pro­gram's 7th titln. 
"I would likn to nHHJ­


ti on that Bednarski Zoltan IDud-asI is my partnnr. liP madn a tremnndous job working with us," Bndnarski said. "Zoltan was very speeial and I would likn to nwnlion this during t.his eonferenen." 
Dudas, howewr, rnspectf'ully dndined, choosing-mw·h like he had all season -to :-;tay bohind thn scenes. 
"It's not about thn coadws I think. It's about thn f'nncnrs mostly. Thoy are on the stage, they have to fence, not tho coaches," Dudas said. 
The press r.onf'nrnnee markPd tho l'irst time tho nntire tnam had appearnd sinen winning the national title in llouston, Tnx., eoming back from a 24­point dnl'icit and dPI'nal.ing pen~nnial rival Ohio State atop 
see FENCING/pag~.: 4 

OIT alerts collllllunity as spam fills inboxes 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Wrircr 
Spam mail, in the lilrm of bank and company impersonators, has been infesting e-mail boxes of members of the Notre Dame community in recent weeks, some soliciting personal and credit card information and then scamming customers.. 
The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) alerts stu­dents and faculty when orr receives new spam or virus threats. 
"This is not just a scare. People have been victimized by this problem," said Gary Dobbins, director of orr. lie said he was unable to release the names of specific individuals who were targetod by tho s<~ams. . 
Notre Damn Security/Police (NDSP) had one such casn report­ed March 9, according to tlw NDSP crimn hlottnr. 
OIT does not interfere with mail delivery to campus Wnbmail users, but in order to lessen tho reoccurring problem of spam mail, the tedmoloh'Y centnr pro­vides access to filters for thn Notrn Damn eommunity. 
"People would likn not to recnive spam mail. and have )OITI block it," said Dobbins. "It is a very tricky thing to do and not to jeopardize lngitimatn mail." 
Dobbins said that spam dons not leak into thn systnm; rathnr, 
sec SPAM/page 4 
---~--l 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 23, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Living in 'travel size' 
Have you ever walked through the aisles of a warehouse store like Costco or Sam's Club and wondered who would buy a jar of mustard a foot and a half tall? 
I mean, if you 

Kate Seryak 
really stop and think about it, a 

Sports Wlre
giant jar of mus­

Editor
tard indicates per­manence. A responsible adult would not buy such a large quantity of condiment on a whim or pang of fancy. On the con­trary, it can be surmised that the driving reason for purchasing such an amount (discounting a mustard fetish) would be the assumption that one, along with one's family, will con­sume said amount of mustard before the expiration date. 
Such a sell-by deadline is most eas­ily met in a household of stability ­mortgaged, rented or purchased ­or in a flat or apartment of similar stature. Such a large jar of mustard isn't transportable, so whoever buys it probably doesn't plan on moving soon, furthering the idea that a large jar of mustard symbolizes and reaf­firms the emerging notion of perma­nence in our society. 
In contrast to this 'economy size' is the 'travel size,' which is just as readily available for those who do not have the luxury of permanence. College students, travelers and others have to carefully chose what size mustard bottle they will buy, because they can't be sure of how much they can consume within one semester or one month. 
The juxtaposition of 'economy size' to 'travel size' really reveals the emo­tional difficulty of living in a mindset of transience. As exciting as it is to live away from home, on ycmr own, or around the world, as soon as you realize that everything in your fridge (assuming you have one) is shorter than a can of coke and no wider than a slice of American cheese, you can't help but miss the huge pantry full of Costco-purchased supplies at home. 
Furthermore, once you have left your old residence of permanence to venture into the world of college (for instance), you come to the realization that the next time you 'II live in such a permanent situation is when you build your own, with your own fami­ly, with your own closet of Costco food. 
So whilst I drift through my tran­sient college years, I have come to understand and realize that from now on, I won't be living at home long enough to see the emptying of the next giant jar of mustard my mother buys from Costco. This is a sad concept, but an eye-opening one. Soon, I will have my own Sam's Club card with my own Saturday morning mug-shot on it, and the next time. I see a giant jar of mustard up close will be when I'm schlepping it home for my family to enjoy for the next six months. So perhaps in the end, it's not so bad to live in 'travel size'­for now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kate Seryak at kseryak@nd. edu 
CORRECTION 

Due ro an identification error on page 20 ofrhe March 21 issue ofThe Observer,fencer Valerie Providenza was incorreccly identified as Marie! Zagunis. 
Due ro a reporting error in rhe March 22 issue ofThe Observer, Chris Nichol was identified as a Notre Dame junior. Nichol is a junior ar Holy Cross Junior College. The Observer regrets rhese errots. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE BEST MAJOR OFFERED AND WHY? 

Paula Wang  Camden McClelland  Milo Dodson  Grace Shen  Kevin Curran  Greg lim  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  freshman  
Pasquerilla West  Dillon  Carroll  Howard  Keough  Knott  
"CHEG! Because  "Architecture.  "Psychology.  "Underwater  "Philosophy  - "CHEG, because  
I'm just that ,masochistic.  I'm allergic to ,sleep.  You can legally screw with  basket-weaving. That actually  you get to argue with dead guys  there are a lot ofgirls in it. At  
people's  takes skill.  ,,and lose.  least I hope  

minds." Wait ... is that even offered?" 

Small merchants adopt 'weird' campaign 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -The large billboards dotting parts of Louisville are as striking for their color scheme -black and white -as they are for their message. 
"Keep Louisville Weird," the billboards scream .• 
It's part of a public rela­tions campaign in Louisville and cities from Boul~er, Colo., to Raleigh, N.C., aimed at drawing customers to unique, locally owned stores. 
The campaigns and small business alliances are using the effort to stay in competi­tion with large retail chains such as Wal-Mart, Target and the recently merged K­Mart-Sears. 
Lottery mistake irks hun­dreds in New York 
NEW YORK -Lucky 13 turned out to be not so lucky in New York. Hundreds of people showed up at the Daily News' midtown Manhattan offices on Monday, angry over an apparent misprint in one of the winning numbers in the newspaper's scratch-match game. 
Vanessa Dover, a 62-year­old painter's wife, thought she had won $100,000. 
"We were all celebrating Saturday night, jumping around; the grandkids were screaming," Dover said. "We got up the next morning and the dream was dead." 
The way it's set up, the Daily News includes a seven-game ticket in its Sunday edition. Every day, it prints a list of 10 numbers to be scratched off the cor­responding day's game, out of 15 possible spaces. If three of the revealed spaces show the same dollar amount, the contestant wins that money. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


that's the case. , 
IN BRIEF 

Notre Dame's softball team plays its -first home game today against Western Michigan at 4 
p.m. at Ivy Field. 

Gerhard Bowering, S.J., pro­fessor of Islamic Studies at Yale University, will give a lecture entitled "Islam and Christianity: Pluralism and Fundamentalism in Tension" today from 5 p.m. to 6:15 in C-100 Hesburgh Center. The lecture is spon­sored by the Erasmus Institute. 
A panel discussion entitled "The Future of Social Security: A Non-Partisan Panel Discussion on Prospects for Reform" will take place today from 6 p.m. to 8 in 102 DeBartolo Hall. The panel will feature Teresa Ghilarducci, associate professor of economics and policy studies; Bob Walsh and Doug Nguyen, representa­tives from the Social Security Administration; and Lance Wescher, doctoral student researching Social Security and pensions. 
Notre Dame's baseball team has a doubleheader Thursday against Georgetown from 12 
p.m. to 4 in the Eck Stadium. 
The film "The Passion of the Christ" will be shown in the Browning Cinema in the DeBarto-lo Center for the Performing Arts Thursday at 7 p.m. and 10. 
The film "Ben Hur" will be shown at 7 p.m. Friday in the 
Browning  Cinema  in  the  
DeBartolo  Center  for  the  
Performing Arts.  

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

42 32 


HIGH LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:::c 
!ci 
LLI 
3: 
....I c:( 
(,) 



26 19 


47 39 

HIGH LOW 
0 

HIGH 40
..... 

LOW 32 
Wednesday, March 23, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Speaker addresses tnedia biases 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
Jnnnifor Poznnr, founder and dirnetor of Women In Media & News (WIMN), spoke to a crowd at Saint Mary's Tuesday about the nxdusion of women from the news an~na and about the American public being fed bias and some­times false war eoverage. 
In a lecture nntitled "Media, Wonwn and War: llow does the Invisibility of Women's Voiecs in War Coveragn Shortehango Amnriea?" Poznnr cited example aftm· nxample of how women arn undern~presentml and stereotyped on network television and in newspapnrs. 
l'oznnr said no women sit on thB hoards of major modi a l:onglomer­atns FOX Nnws, MSNBC and Clear Channel. Editorial rooms are equally male-dominatnd, Pozncr said, and minorities fare even worse, composing "just three per­cent of daily newsroom jobs." 
Pozner admitted that women have made strides in journalism and makn up roughly half of all local news aneh!1rs. Still, the typi­cal nightly news tnam consists of an older white man paired with a rnueh younger, attractive woman, l'ozner said. 
"Wn am not calling tho shots in tlw mndia business," Poznnr said. "Progress shouldn't be eonfusP.d with nquality." 
Coveragn of women's issues and the portrayal of women in news stories are rngulmly manipulated to garner ratings, Pozner said. She said fads such as dress size and childhood porsonality am ineludnd in news reports about significant female figures such as Hilary Clinton and Condoleezza Hice. 
Pozner also cited the media blitz surrounding the capture and homecoming of U.S. army Pvt. Jessica Lynch. According to Pozner, Lynch made for great news coverage for the American press because or her blue-eyed, blonde-haired girl next door image. Army Specialist Shoshana Johnson, a black woman who endured tho same trauma as Lynch, rnceivod virtually no atten­tion when she returned to the United States. 
Lynch w~s eelP.brated as an Ameriean hero, Poznor said, and the negative details of the women's story were purposely left out. 
"While tho media used Jessica ... to whip up support, what we didn't know was that Jessica was raped," Pozner said. 
Mass media, Pozner said, aided the Bush administration in its pub­lie relations campaign for the invasion of Afghanistan in the months rollowing Sept. 11 and later in Iraq. 
The connict in Afghanistan was presentnd by the government, and subsequently distributed by televi­sion, newspapP.rs and radio, as a light against tp,rrorism and the lib­eration of Afghani women, Pozner said. 
Media outlets also playP.d up the image or the burkha as a symbol or injustieo and ignored more criti­cal issues, she said. 
"What our media chose not to focus on was the serious and vio­lent repression of women," Poznp,r said. 
In Iraq, she continued, news programs continually picked up sound bites and news clips of the president indirectly associating the perpetrators of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks with Saddam Hussein. 
"What is most disturbing, though, is the more people paid attention to broadcast news ... the less they knew, the more misin­rormed they were," Pozner said. 
Pozner eited a study that said 80 percent of those who watched FOX News held one or more major misconceptions about the United States invasion of Iraq. Viewers of other major networks followed close behind, she said. 
DissP.nters, Pozner said, were slammed in the media as "unpa­triotic" and "treasonous." Women were especially subject to sexist and misogynist insults, she said. 
Pozner played a clip of the reali­ty TV show "Wife Swap" in which two women, one a huge Bush sup­porter, and the other, a Bush opponent, switched homes and families for two weeks. When the topic of conversation turned to polities, the anti-Bush and anti­war wife was portrayed as a radi­cal and a crazy person. The pro­Bush wile was presented as down­to-earth and loyal. 
Pozner encouraged audience members to turn to alternative news sources and to press for reform in the media. 
"Thinking critically about the media is our strongest tool against propaganda in our society," she said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at Onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Forn1er POW honors fallen servicew-on1an 
Jessica Lynch gives tribute to best friend 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX -Almost two years to the day after their company was ambushed, former POW Jessiea Lynch on Tuesday honored fallen comrade Army Spe. Lori Piestewa the first American servicewoman killed in the Iraq war. 
The women were best.. 
friends who served together in the 507th Maintenance Company from Fort Bliss, Texas. They were also roommates at Fort Bliss and tentmatos in Iraq. 
"Many of you 

may know our story, but what you may not know is what a great friend Lori was, what a great mother she is to these kids, what a great daughter she is, and what a great devoted soldiP.r she was," Lynch said at a news conference. "She taught me so much and knowing her made me a better person." 
Piestewa, a member of' the Hopi Tribe and single moth­er of two, is believed to be tho first American Indian woman killed while lighting for the U.S. military. 
The 23-year-old l'iestewa died and Lynch was cap­tured Marel1 23, 200:l, in an attack near thn southern Iraq city of' Nasiriyah. Soldinrs rescued I .yneh April 1, 2003; tho videotaped res­cue made hnr an interna­tional celebrity. 
Lynch is recovering from injuries that indudnd a bro­ken back. She still walks with a cane. She has 
"She taught me so enrolled at West Virginia
much and knowing 
University
her made me a 
and hopes to 

better person." become a kindergartnn toacher.
Jessica Lynch 
With pro­

former POW 
ceeds from a 
$1 million book deal, Lynch creatnd the Jessica Lynch Foundation to help Piestewa's two children. She later expandHd the foun­dation's mission to educate childrnn of military veterans and casualties. 
"We lovfl her like a daugh­ter," said Terry Piestewa, Lori's father. "We know sho was blaming herself for what happened. Shn was blaming hersnlf' that she did­n't bring Lori homo. 
"She wants to be there for the kids. It's good for her, helps her hoal." 

Keeping the CoAbout Social SThe Higgins Labor Research Center and the · resent these two The Future of Social Security: A Non-Partisan Panel Discussion on Prospects for Reform Panelists include • Bob Walsh and Doug Nguyen, representatives from the Social Security Administration • Teresa Ghilard ucci, Director of the Higgins Center for Labor Research and Associate Professor of Economics and Policy Studies • Lance Wescher, Notre Dame doctoral student in Economics • Nancy Griffin, Indiana State Director of AARP  nversation Going ecurity Reform Department of Economics and Policy Studies u events: Dean Baker "Social Security: The Phony Crisis" Baker is co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, D.C. and co-author of a widely read policy book on Social Security, also titled "Social Security: The Phony Crisis." He writes the Economic Reporting Review, a weekly online commentary examining economic coverage in The New York Times and Washington Post, and is the author of "Getting Prices Right: The Battle over the Consumer Price Index," which was selected for the Choice Outstanding Academic Book list in 1998.  
6:00 p.m. Today 102 DeBartolo Hall Co-sponsored by the HiRRins Labor Research Center" and the Department of Economics and Policy Studies  7:00p.m. next Wednesday 126 DeBartolo Hall Sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Economics and Policy Studies  
Both events are free and open to the public  

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 23, 2005 
really bad, but unfortunately "I think probably everyone last year we weren't able to do had their moments when they
Fencing 

it," sophomore sabre Valerie had their doubts on this, but continued from page 1 Providenza said. "I think every­watching the girls fence on one just wanted it badly Saturday and Sunday and see­the standing by the score of enough this year that we all ing how amazingly they fenced 173-171. just came together." -it just made it that much 
The women's team took the The team takes a unique better to come from behind and stage first, answering questions. place in Notre Dame athletic then to win in the final round about the tournament, the sea­history. Not only did the by two points," sophomore son and what comes next. women's squad score the most sabre Matt Stearns said. 
"I thought that since we had points a women's team had After the press conference, three seniors competing on the ever scored in the NCAA round the team gathered around the women's side. It was very robin (103), but this title marks national championship trophy, important for us to do well in the first time that a Notre smiling and posing for pictures. this competition. I think it's a Dame coach has won a national Perhaps not surprisingly, two great way to go out of your sea­title in two of his first three days after winning the title, son," senior epee captain Kerri years in charge, as Bednarski Bednarski and Dudas are Walton said. "I think we and Dudas won in 2003 as well. already looking forward to next exceeded our expectations, and :'J got a lot of e-mails from year. we had a wonderful year." the 2003 champions. They e­"After the big victory, we are 
The team members also mailed me immediately and ·immediately talking about the addressed their place in Notr8 congratulated us," Dudas said. recruiting, the next year and Dame fencing history. After the women's team, the how it's going to be, and I think 
"They obviously won the Notre Dame men took the that the way to win it," Dudas championship the year before I stage, with their discussion said. came here, and that's definitely focused on the drama of watch­something we tried to live up to ing the women's team pull Contact Eric Retter at freshman year, and I wanted it them from behind. eretter@nd.edu 
Dobbins said. ter opportunity. Most legitimate bank e-mails "It should be better publicized," 

Spa01 

do not ask for information such she said. "I would have liked to continued from page 1 as pin numbers or account num­know about it so I would not get bers, he said. An authentic bank an e-mail about an account I do 
the mail server at Notre Dame e-mail will state a specific reason not even have ovm:seas." receives e-mails and does not dis­for the contact. Dobbins said that users should criminate. "A clear sign is if the page the move the mail to a folder, to pre­
"[OIT'sl principal job is to deliv­link takes you to asks for infor­vent non-spam emails from being er mail addressed to you," mation a bank already knows accidentally deleted. Dobbins said. about you," said Dobbins. ''A filter-won't always classify 
Numerous companies have When the filter that OIT pro­all spam as spam and could mis­been impersonated through vides for Webmail users receives takenly classifY legitimate mail as spam, including EBay, Amazon, an e-mail, it places a score in the spam," he said. and Key Bank. Spam mail has header, Dobbins said. The OIT offers sessions in the fall to also appeared in the form of a greater the number of stars an learn about computer protection. charity donation page such as the email receives, the more likely An online test is also offered for well-known UNICEF donation for the message is to be spam. users who would like to test their Tsunami relief, Dobbins said. Webmail users can allocate the ability to differentiate spam mail 
"I received something that was number of stars necessary to rec­from legitimate mail. supposed to be from EBay," soph­ognize spam mail. Individuals "Threats change all the time," omore Teresa Kolf said. "It asked can then clioose for the illicit mail Dobbins said. "We try to provide to verifY my account including my to be placed in a spam folder or general advice to help you recog­credit card info. I might have to be automatically deleted. nize new threats before we can thought it was real if I had not Junior Angela. Piccione tell you about the specifics." called my brother." received an e-mail asking her to 
There are some guidelines to verifY an account overseas. At the Contact Jen Rowling at recognize spam messages, time, she was unaware of the fil-jrowling@nd.edu 
choice of school for their children Agency and the Federal Bureau where they learn radical Islam of Investigation prior to Sept. 11. 

Ha01ilton 
and the hatred of you and me," "As vice chair of the 9/11 com­continued from page 1 he said. mission, one question we faced Hamilton said the second over and over again was 'who is that he said must be taken in measure that needs to be taken is in charge?' and we didn't get sat­order for the United States to domestic in nature and focuses isfactory answers," he said of the stand as a unified force against on the procedures being under­National Commission on Terrorist terrorist organizations of the taken to counter terrorism. Attacks, which issued "The 9/11 world. "We need a comprehensive Commission Report: Final Report First, the United States must strategy that integrates all ele­of the National Commission on identifY the enemy, he said. ments of American power. Terrorist Attacks Upon the United "The question of 'who is the Integration is the key," he said. States" on July 22, 2004. "Not enemy' is not quite as easy to "We can not have foreign agents only did we not share information answer as you might think," who don't know who they're sup­vertically within the FBI, but we Hamilton said. "Are we fighting posed to be looking for, we can also did not do so horizontally an enemy acting out against val­not have first responders who do between the FBI and the CIA. We I ues of America? Or an enemy not know what attacks might failed to share information and 
i acting out of hatred of American come, we cannot have aid work­we paid a price for it." 
I 
i i policy?" ers who do not know our diplo­Still, Hamilton insisted that ~ To highlight the ambiguity of matic strategy." huge strides have been made the government's target in its war The integration required within since Sept. 11. on terrorism, Hamilton told the the United States must also be "We've captured al Qaeda lead­audience of a key observation he used abroad, Hamilton said. ers, we've destroyed their sanctu­
made while reading the nation's Thus, his third tenant is interna­aries, we've reformed the FBI,
~ 
daily newspapers one morning tional cooperation. The United we've created a Department of earlier this year. States cannot fight terrorism Homeland Security, we have new 
I 
"For my own amusement, I jot­without the support of the rest of border screening systems. I get a ted down how these high-pow­the world, he said. better physical exam at the air­ered journalists described the "What we can do is say to the port than I do when I go to the 
enemy. 'Terrorist,' 'insurgent,' world's 1.3 billion Muslims that doctor," he said. 
'f ..... 
'Saddam loyalists.' 'AI Qaeda we are on your side,'' he said. As Hamilton closed his speech, affiliates,' 'Islamists' and 'Iraqi "We need to tell these people that he looked up from his podium nationals,' just to name a few," he we want for you a decent life, a and stared at the crowd. Raising said. "But no one can be all those job, an education, healthcare and his voice for emphasis, he prom­things at once. How we define the the ability to choose a partner for ised that a better, safer world enemy makes a difference on life. To show them that we stand was achievable. how we attack the enemy." for a better future than Osama "It is about what kind of world 
The 9/11 commission report bin Laden stands for.'' you want to live .in. Where kids identified the enemy in a two-fold The fourth and final step in are safer and less likely to grow definition. First is al-Qaeda, Hamilton's solution to effectively up and become terrorists," pe which Hamilton believes was "the fight terrorism focused on the said. "Achieving this will require group that hit us on September gathering and sharing of intelli­us to delve deeper in the reser­11." Hamilton referred to the sec­gence. Hamilton said that the voir of American power and· ond enemy as "the ideology of lack of leadership in the intelli­resilience.'' radical Islam." gence community was to blame 
"You know that many parents for the poor communication Contact Mary Kate Malone at in this world have only one between the Central Intelligence mmalone3@nd.edu 
dents to Notre Dame. "Usually about 50 percent of

Reilly 

the Reilly Weekend prospects continued from page 1 end up attending Notre Dame," said professor Nick had hosts sign a contract Delaney, one of the directors of saying they would not bring the Honors Program. "That is prospective students off-cam­a very high number from that pus or offer them alcohol. end of the [academic] pyra­
Organizers of the weekend mid." warned hosts to avoid the cel­Last year's similar Reilly ebrations and kept the stu­Weekend helped to convince dents' schedules packed tight. several current Notre Dame 
"I personally did not spend a freshmen that, despite the lure great deal of time with my of other universities' academic prospect," O'Neill freshmen scholarships and mild weath­and former Reilly Weekend er, South Bend was the place participant Pat Lyons said. for them. "We had some free time to "When I came on Reilly, t felt hang out and talk about the like I fit right in with the NO weekend, but probably not students immediately, and I more than three or four hours felt like NO was the place I during the entire weekend." needed to be," Lyons said. 
Instead, Reilly prospects had "One night on Reilly, the direc­the opportunity to explore tors of the program had us Notre Dame's academic, spiri­watch 'Rudy' together in the tual, extracurricular and ath­Main Building. While I had letic components. The students seen 'Rudy' many times had the opportunity to see the before, I was just struck by the campus, meet faculty mem­atmosphere created by watch­bers in their intended major, ing such a great film and being visit relevant classes, attend a part of that atmosphere." mass, listen to the sounds of Christine Scacco, a McGlinn the Glee Club in the brand new freshman who was invited to DeBartolo Center for the the Reilly weekend last year, Performing Arts and even take said that the program made a a tour of Notre Dame Stadium. large impact on her decision to In their few hours of spare attend Notre Dame. time, the prospects could take "My parents didn't want to advantage of their comprehen­pay for me to go to Notre sive meal package, Flex Points Dame," Scacco said. "I remem­and passes to Notre Dame's ber on the plane horne I was workout facilities, all free of honestly crying because I was charge. . convinced I wouldn't be able to 
"The students are spoiled come here. Because of Reilly, I pretty nicely throughout their had the motivation to make stay here,'' freshmen Reilly Notre Dame happen for me." host Kate Corcoran said. Already, 2005's Reilly 
The money invested in the Weekend looks to be equally Reilly Weekend goes a long successful to previous y-ears. way, according to the Office of "We've already received a lot Admissions. The Reilly of positive feedback from over prospects have their pick of the weekend," Flynn said. any of the nation's top univer­"One student has already com­sities, and for the past three mitted." years, the event has been extremely successful in Contact Jarrett Lantz at recruiting many of these stu-jlantz2@nd.edu 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 23, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TtiE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.N. pays for legal fees in fraud case 
UNITI~I> NATIONS -Tho United Nations agreed to ndmbursn Bmwn Sevan, the sus­pmHIPd lwad of llw U.N. oil-for-food program in Iraq, for legal fens lw ineurrnd during an investigation into allegations of fraud in tho opm·ation, a U.N. ollidal said Tuesday. 

Paynwnt f(lr Snvan 's IPgal fm1s was to como out of tlw <u:count nmtaining llw 2.2 pnreont of Iraqi oil nwnmws from thn $(,4 billion program Parmarknd for its administration, U.N. spokesman Frnd h:khard said. 
Sevan's 1(1os anl to be rnimbursnd with Iraqi oil funds set aside to lwlp administer the pro­gram. That nwans Iraq oil monny would esslm­tially pay l(u· Sevan to defend himsnlf against dmrges that lw bilked the program. 
l·:rkhard said tlw United Nations had agrend to pay reasonable legal expenses up to Feh. 3, wlwn an investigation lnd by former U.S. I;Pderal Heserve Chairman Paul Voleknr UITUSI'd Sevan of a r.onllirt of interest adminis­tPri ng tlw program. 
Iran insists on nuclear program 
1'/\HIS-Iran vowed Tuesday to prnss ahead on t.lw "tortuous path" t.o developing nudear powPr plants to mnet its en1wgy rwnds. brush­ing asidP U.S. suspicions that. thn dl(u·t masks plans to build atomic weapons. 
i\1. t.lw Prul of a two-day confernnr.n in Paris on tlw futuw of nuclear energy. Iranian mwoys again insisted t.hnir nuclear program is poaeo­ful. 
"Tiw rwopiP and govPrnnwnt of Iran arn dPtnrmirwd to opnn tlwir way through t.lw tor­tuous path of pPar.PI'ul usn of nudoar tedmolo­gy dPspitn all imposed rnst.rietions and diflkul­ties," said Mohammad Sanidi, vieo president for planning and international afl'airs at the i\tomie l·:nnrgy Organization of Iran. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Altered corn accidentally shipped 
Si\N FH/\NCISCO -Swiss biotechnology eompany Syngenta i\G said Tuesday it mis­takenly sold to farmers an experimental eorn send gnnntieally engineered to resist bugs that was rwver approved by U.S. regulators, bolstnring erities' claims that tho industry IHlPds tighter government scrutiny. 
Hundreds of tons of the genetically engi­rwnrml sePds and resulting corn erop were shipped in tho Unitnd States and overseas hntwnon 2001 and 2004. Federal investiga­tors said there was no lwalth or environmen­tal risk hPeause of the seed's similarity to anotlwr Syngonta product already approved f(n· sal11 and consumption. 

Medicare covers smoking cessation 
Wi\SIIIN<;TON -You're nnVIlr too old to quit smoking, govnrnment officials said Tunsday. announcing that Medicare will immPdiatPiy start eovPring thP cost of eoun­sPiing for cnr·tain IH'rwfidariPs who want to quit tofHLITO. 
Mndirarp's rww smoking cnssation program "has grPat potnntial to savo and improvo livllS for millions of' sPniors," said Mark McClPllan. administrator f'or tlw Cnnters for MNiiearn and Mndiraid SPrvires. 
Not ewry Mmlicarn lwnolkiary qualifies f'or lhP nnw hnnnfit only those who have an ill­ness causnd by tohar.eo usn or cornplil'.ated hy tobacco usn. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Volunteers clean up river banks 
KOKOMO -!\ ehurrh and a conservation group arP working with the city to dean up thousands of tirns dum1wd in a wooded area on tlw hanks of Wildcat Cronk. 
BntwiHln 5,000 and 10.000 tires are bPiiPvml to have lHwn dumped in the area just nast of thP city sincn tho 1960s to the prPsnnt day. 
Till' tirPs linn tlw rnwk and clutter the banks f'urtlwr back on thn land whnre Trinity WPsiPyan Chureh hopPs someday to build a rww ehurrh. Sonw of the tiros are stuck in trees. 
Community reacts to shootings 
Local police and FBI search for motive in school shooting 'While tozvn mourns 
Associated Press 
HED LAKE, Minn. ­Authorities worn trying to detnrrnine Tuesday what eaused a teenager to gun down his grandfather, put on the man's police-issue belt and bulletproof' vest, and drivo his marked squad ear to a high school. wlwrn hn began shooting his classmates at will. 
Jnl'f Weise, who authori­tins said was 16 or 17, killnd nine people and wounded sovon Monday before trading gunfire with a police officer and appar­llntly shooting himsnlf. llis motive still wasn't elnar Tuesday, but tho FBI said tlw shootings appnarod to havo beon planned in advance. 
It was tlw nation's worst school shooting sinen tho Columbine massacre in April 1999 that ended with tho doaths of' 12 students. a teaeher and thn two teen gunmen. 
The killings on this northern Minnesota Indian rnsorvation began at the home of Weise's grandfa­ther, Daryl Lussier, 58, who was shot to death with a .22-caliber gun, aeeord­ing to Michael Tubman, the FBI's special agent in charge for Minneapolis: /\!so killed was Lussier's companion, Michelle Sigana. 
Lussier had worked as a tribal police officer for decades. Weise then drove tho older man's squad ear to the school, where he gunned down security guard Derrick Brun at the door and spent about 10 minutes inside, targeting people at random. 
llearing the shots, stu­dents and adults barricad­ed themselves into offices and classrooms and crouehed under desks, authorities said. Five stu­dnnts were shot to death and two 15-ynar-olds rmnainod in critical condi­tion at a Fargo, N.D.. hos­pital with gunshot wounds to the face. 
"Hight now we are in uttnr disbelinl' and shock," said Floyd Jourdain Jr.. ehairrnan of tho Hod Lake Band of Chippewa. 

Authorities were investi­gating whether Weise, who dressed in black and wrote stories about zombies, may have posted messages on a neo-Nazi Web site express­ing admiration for Adolf IIitier. 
Using the handle "Todesengel" -German for "Angel of Death"-the writer identified himself as Je!T Weise of the Hed Lake Heservation. In April 2004, he referenced being aeeused of "a threat on the school I attend," though it says he was latnr deared. 
Tabman said Tuesday he couldn't confirm whether Weiso was tho person who made the postings. 
School board member Kathryn Beaulieu said Weise had boon placed in tho school's Homebound program for a policy viola­tion. She did not elaborate. 
Helatives told the St. Paul Pioneer Press that Weise was a loner who was often teased by others. They said his father committed sui­cide four years ago and his mother was living in a Minneapolis nursing home because she sufl'en1d brain injuries in a car aeeident. 
Hosidents at tho homo where Weise was believed to have lived with his grandmother declined to comment Tuesday. School was canceled l'or the day as investigators scoured the building for duns. 
i\t the Capitol in St. Paul. several hundred pnopln attended a praynr eeremo­ny l'or victims of thn shoot­ing where religious loadors joined Indians in drum­ming and chanting. 
"Once again our poople have been hit ... but our people are strong," said Ona Kingbird, a Hed Lake tribal member. "We'll eomn out of it." 
Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty expressod his condolences for the fami­lies of the victims and said it app1mred tho school had "very rigorous socurity." 
"It looks like you had a very disturbed individual who was able to ovnrconw a lot of precautions to do a lot of' damage," thn govor­nor said. 
But a school snerotary and a cousin of tho slain snctrrity guard said that Brun and a l'ernaln spcurity guard who llml from Woisn did not carry guns. Bnm's cousin, Nancy Hichards, said Brun also did not wPar a bulllltproof vest. 
It was tlw socor11l l'atal school shooting in Minrwsota in I H months. 

CUBA 

Open hearings for alleged terrorists 
Associated Press 
GUANTAN/\MO BAY NAVAL Bi\SE -!\ Sudanese detainee denied being a threat to tho United States during a rare open hearing Tuesday in mili­tary proceedings that are determin­ing whether terrorism suspeets jailed here should remain in custody. 
Three other prisoners refused to participate and their hearings wore held without their presence. 
The hearings, many of which have been dosed to journalists. eome amid a DHfenso Department effort to 
persuade home countries to take custody of some 545 detainees at this Navy base. Detainees deter­mined by the hearings not to be a throat to i\meriea or not to be a potential source of inf'ormation about terrorist groups eould be freed. 
The :~0-year-old Sudanese, who slouehod in a plastic chair and looked down frequently, insisted he went to Afghanistan before the U.S.­lod campaign that toppl1~d the Taliban regime in Jato 2001. He said he went to fight tho Soviet army, 
which oeeupind Afghanistan in the 
1990s, and tried  to  l'lne  to  avoid  
fighting i\merieans.  
"Evon  though  the  roads  worn  

dosed, I tried to leave in order not to fight tho i\rnerieans. I tried and tried, but eould not," lw said in a statement read by his assisting mili­tary ol'lker. 
The otlwr three suspnets -a Saudi, an J\zerbaijar'li and an Algerian -rnfusod to attend tlwir hearings. Tlwrn have been h4 lwar­ings hold so far and only 29 suspnets have attended. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 23, 2005 
WVFI 
continued from page 1 
"We've been really happy to ·have an Internet radio station 
... because while most people 
don't listen in their cars, 
Notre Dame is a campus 
where most people live on 
campus and can listen from 
their computers," she said. 
Case also said she thinks 
the Internet is a good home 
for WVFI, as it allows the sta~ 
tion to be commercial-free 
and heard around the world. 
"We used to be 640 AM, and 
then some students made the 
move to be on the Internet," 
she said. "The idea was that 
we would be free from FCC 
regulations and be available 
to the entire world. Our fund­
ing is from SUB and Student 
Activities, and then a lot of 
[station business) is Internet­
done, so we don't have to 
abide by the official rules 
that govern FM stations." 
The format allows WVFI to 
reach out to the national base 
of Notre Dame alumni and 
fans hungry for news of life 
under the dome. 
"Our sports broadcasts 
have done really well," Case 
said. "We have really solid 
coverage, and alums like that 
it's student-run so you get a 
more intimate perspective." 
Case and McGeeney both 
said they want to encourage 
students to tune in online. 
Freshman Laura Miller said 
she has heard of the station, 
but has never actually lis­
tened to any of the shows. 
"I have not ever [listened]," 
she said. "I haven't been 
motivated to very much. I've 
heard about it ... but I don't 
know very much about it." 
The station, available at 
http://wvfi.nd.edu, plays a 
wide variety of independent­
label music including hip­
hop, folk and indie pop. The 
station has over 125 disc 
jockeys (DJs) who are all 
allowed to choose what music 
to play during their shows. 
There is a diverse mix of DJs 
working at the station -foot­
ball players, freshmen, ROTC 
cadets, seniors who have had 
four years of shows and many 
other lovers of music. 
Music co-director Catherine 
McGeeney, a junior, said the 
station receives an average of 
50 new COs per week from 
independent labels and 
artists -leading to a wide 
range of available music for 
DJs to spin. 
"We get in a wide variety of 
music," she said. "We have a 
variety of shows that include 
some talk-only shows. 
Basically, DJs have a choice 
about what kind of show they 
are going to have. The vast 
variety of shows are music, 
but just like on the radio the 
DJs will talk to each other or 
talk about the music." 
McGeeney said the station 
plays many big-name indie 
bands like Stars, Iron and 
Wine and The Decemberists. 
Students can request songs 
by their favorite artists by 
calling the station ahy time 
from 8 a.m. to 2 a.m., or can 
send the OJ an instant mes­
sage (IM) while their show is 
on -an option McGeeney 
said has become increasingly 
popular. 
"We get a lot of !Ms, and a 
lot of people request [songs] 
by IM," she said. "We're in 
the process. of actually put­
ting our entire vault [of 
albums) on the Internet so 
that people can look at what 
they can choose from." 
McGeeney said this is one reason the online format is a benefit to WVFI, which was previously an AM radio sta­tion. 

McGeeney, who will serve as next year's station manag­er, said the station is great for those who are "interested in finding ways to learn more about independent label music or indie rock" and get to know others with the same interest. 
"The reason I'm involved is that I love the community of the radio station and the exploration of music," she said. "It really encourages individuality." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
FORTUNE' 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 

Ki111111el111an to lecture at Sni te 
New York Times chief art critic to speak at opening reception 
contributor to The New York Review of Books, Kimmelman is the author of a forthcoming book with the same title as his lecture, as well as of "Portraits: Talking with Artists at the Met, the Moderh, the Louvre and Elsewhere," which was named a best book of the year by The Times and The Washington Post. 
Kimmelman, a former senior fellow in the National 


Special to the Observer 
Michael Kimmelman, chief art critic for The New York Times, will present a lec­ture titled "The Accidental Masterpiece: On the Art of Life and Vice Versa" at 2:30 
p.m. April 3 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Suite Museum of Art. The talk is free and open to the public. 
A finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2000 and a regular 
Arts Journalism Program at Columbia University, was graduated from Yale University in 1980 and earned his master's degree from Harvard University. 
The lecture will be part of an opening reception for the Snite's annual student thesis exhibition, featuring video, industrial and graph­ic design projects, as well as paintings, drawings, pho­tography, prints, ceramics and sculpture. 
Thirsty for knowledge? 
Say when. 

At Ernst &Young, the opportunity for growth is enormous. We offer over 
7,000 professional development programs-some of the best formal learning programs in the country -because our philosophy is People First. We recognize that our employees are essential to the firm's growth and success. And in order to attract the best talent, we've built an environment that Fortune® magazine has consistently recognized as one of the "100 Best Companies To Work For." So whether you're looking for a place to grow or a great place to work, look for our recruiters on campus. ey.comjusjcareers 
Audit • Tax • Transaction Advisory Services i!/ fRNST& YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
Wednesday, March 23, 2005 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,470.51 -94.88
}ones 
Up: 943  Some: I 2 2  Down: •  Composite Volume: 2, I 32,877,220  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  I ,467.50 I,989.34 7.158.97 I , I 7 I. 7 I  -3.49 -18.17 -70.23 -12.07  

NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,841.97 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,93 7.30 +3.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  -1.23  ·0.45  36.13  
J;11CROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.87  -0.21  23.99  
SUN MICROSYS INC (SUNW)  -4.28  -0.18  4.03  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  ·0.11  -0.02  17.92  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  ·1.26  -0.16  12.49  


30-YEAR BOND  + 1.35  +0.65  48.91  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +I .88  +0.85  46. I 0  
5-YEAR NOTE  +2.37  +0.99  42.76  
3-MONTH BILL  + 1.63  +0.45  28.02  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  ·1.43  56.03  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +0.20  431.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.90  91.20  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I 05.52  
EURO  0.7643  
POUND  0.5302  
CANADIAN$  1.2091  

IN BRIEF 
FOX exec leaves for Paramount 
I.OS i\NGI\LI\S -Gail BemHtn, president of ontortainment at tho Fox Television netwiu·k, is leaving to takn an unspecified role at Paramount Pictures. 
Paramount eonfirnwd Tuesday it is in dis­ntssions with Berman about a "senior crnative role at llw .studio" and hoped to reach a deal soon. 
;\ Fox spokesman dedined to comment. 
Borman is "one of the most. talented nxl~eu­tives in tlw entertainnwnt industry, with groat r.-lationships, exceptional taste, and an amaz­ing creative track n1cord." Paramount said in a short statement issuml late Tuesday. 
BPI'IlHtn would be tlw first high-profile hirn of studio ehinf' Brad c;rey, who himself took the top spot at Paramount earlier this month. 
c;rny earne to Paramount with extensive tel­ovision oxpnrinncn. lin had run the talent agoncy Brillst11in-Grey J•:ntnrtainment and pro­ducPCl films and tnlnvision shows, most notably tlw IIBO series "The Sopranos." 
Borman htls lnd h>x for five years, a rda­tivnly long tenure in tlw pressure-cooker job of 1wtwork entnrtainment. 
Vonage sued for misinforming 
AUSTIN -Texas suml tho nation's largest lntnrnnt-based phone snrvicn providnr Tuesday, saying Vonage f'ailed to clearly inform customers they cannot automatieally dial <J 11 when they sign up. 
The lawsuit follows a case last month in whieh a 17-year-old girl was unable to call 911 on her f'amily's Vonage service during an armed robbery in which her parents were shot and wounded. Tho girl ran to a neigh­bor's horne and called f'or holp. 
Thn lawsuit was filed under the Texas l>eeeptivn Trade l'raetiees Act and seeks to n~quire Vonage Holdings Corp. to more dearly inf'orm consumers that they must separately sign up f'or the 911 f'eaturn. 
Tho lawsuit also seeks $20,000 per violation. 1\d ison, N.J. -based Vonage has more than 500,000 subscribers. 
Texas Attorney Gmwral Greg Abbott said inf'ormation about the typo of' emergency serv­ice Vonage ofl'ers is found only in the fine print on the Web site. 

---~~---------------------------------------------, 

THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

Leaders prepare trade security pact 
Mexico, U.S. and Canada meet to discuss cooperation on various border issues 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -Early in his lirst tnrrn, Prnsident Bush proposed nasing immigration rostrictions and nstablishing a frnn trade zone throughout tho hnmisplwrn. llis first two foreign trips wore to Mnxico and Canada, omphasizing their impor­t<mc(l. 
Four years later, both initiativns are unfulf'illod. not oven on tho agonda as Bush nwnts Wednesday in Texas with Mexican President. Vienntn Fox and Canadian Primo Minister Paul Martin. 
Instead. tho North Anwrican lnadiH'S will sign a pact plmlging to inereasn bordnr sncurity without hindnring tho llow of goods or tho millions of pnopln that r.ross tlw two borders nvnry day. Tlwy will agree to morn coopnration on nnnrgy exploration and on com batting tnrrorism and drug tral'lkking. And they will agrnn to move toward a system of eommon import dutins on goods from China and other nxporting nations and blocs. 
The throe loaders will meet at Baylor University in Waco, .Texas, and then over lunch at Bush's ranch 

in nearby Crawford.  
They are not expecl!~d to  Washington-based  core Bush constituency.  related dosurn of tlw U.S.  
propose any fundamental  Institute for International  U.S. relations with neigh­ bordnr to Canadian bnnf'  
d1angos to tho North  Economies.  bors were strained by the  and a long-running disputn  
American Free Trade  "It's not dear to me that  Iraq war, which was  over duties on softwood  
Agreement, the landmark  etmy of the three leaders  oppos11d by both Fox and  lumbN.  
1994 pact that ended tar­ want to commit significant  then-Canadian Prime  Mnanwhiln, Fox, who  
iffs on most goods traded  capital to addressing  Minister Jean Chretien.  cannot s1wk re-election.  
within the three nations.  either the current frictions  While all agree tins are on  bristled at CIA l>irnctor  
Bush's earlinr vision of  within NAFTA or expand­ the mend, thorn have benn  Porter Goss' wmarks to a  
extending NAFTA to other  ing · · NAFTA," said  some recent irritants.  Snnatn committee last.  
democraeies in tho hemi­ II u fbaun r, who was a  Martin, who took ofTien  wnnk about thn potnnt.ial  
sphere -supported by  Treasury Department of'li­ last year, caught  for instability in M11xico  
Mexico and Canada -·  eial in both the Ford and  Washington by surprise  ahead of' 200(> elnctions.  
appears in limbo, in large  Carter administrations.  last month wlwn l111  Thn Mnxiean prnsidnnt  
part due to resistance led  Bush's hopes for a guest­ rebuffed Bush's ofTer to  also has complainnd about  
by Brazil, South America's  worknr program were  include Canada in tho U.S.  militia-type vigilantn  
largest economy.  dashed by the Sept. 11,  missile defense program.  groups hunting and killing  
"There will be some high  2001, terror attacks,  Tensions remain despite  Mexican immigrants along  
rhetoric about the North  which refocused U.S.  attempts by the two lead­ thn Arizona bordnr, and  
American community and  attention on securing bor­ ers to patch up their differ­ about U.S. suggestions that  
so Forth. But my expecta­ ders. Bush still advocates  ences by phone.  al-<)aida agents may lw  
tions are low" for the ses­ liberalizing immigration,  The Canadian prime  coming into the United  
sion, said Gary llul'bauer,  but the proposal has gen­ minister is expected to  States from Mexico. Fox  
an economist and trade  erated broad opposition  press Bush on the contin­ was expected to raisn both  
expert with the  among conservatives, a  ued mad-cow-disease  topics with Bush.  
fRANCE  


Limit on 35-hour work week lifted 
ers to hire more people. Almost a million people joined
Associated Press 

The conservative-dominated strikes and demonstrations earlier this 
PARIS -France's 35-hotJ.r work­National Assembly, France's lower month to defend the 35-hour week week was cherished by workers but house, voted overwhelmingly Tuesday and protest othor percnived throats to despised by many investors and to adopt a government-backed bill that thnir working conditions and pay. The employers. Now the bold social experi­sif.,rnificantly waters down the 35-hour antipathy could spill over into a May ment has been dubbed a failure by week legislation, a legacy of the for­referendum on the new EU constitu­France's parliament. mer Socialist administration. It opens tion, in whieh the government is cam­
The.Jaw gave many people more the door For companies to increase paif.,rning For a 'yes' vote. time for their f'amilies, for vacation employees' working time, in exchange The new law endorses an increase and for plain relaxation -but it for better pay. in the extra hours mnployees can work fueled anxiety about declining compet­President Jacques Chirac's govnrn­to 220 every year from the previous itiveness and soaring unemployment, ment has tried to sell the reform to limit of 180. It also allows them to go currently at 10 percent. It also failed voters as an opportunity to "Work Further with "optional overtime" in to live up to its original promise: creat­More to Earn More," but many remain return for extra pay and lel<> them sell ing millions of jobs by forcing employ-unconvinced. part of their holiday entitlement. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, March 23, 2005 
IRAQ 

Frustrated civilians kill three in street shooting 
Militants fire at shoppers, wounding three 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Shopkeepers and resi.dents on one of Baghdad's main streets pulled out their own-guns Tuesday and killed three insurgents when hooded men began shooting at passers-by, giving a rare victory to civilians increasingly frustrated by the violence bleeding Iraq. 
The clash in the capital's southern Doura neighborhood erupted when militants in three cars sprayed bullets at shoppers, Interior Ministry officials said. Three people ­a man, a woman and a child -were wounded. 
The motive was unclear, but there hav~ been previous attacks in the ethnically mixed neighborhood. Earlier in the day, gunmen in the same quarter killed a police­man as he drove to work, police Lt. Col. Hafidh AI­Ghrayri said. 
A forceful citizen response is rare, but not unheard of in a country where conflict has become commonplace and the law allows each home to have a weapon. Early this month, police said townsmen in Wihda, 25 miles Sistani, but it doesn't have enough votes to select a Cabinet on its own and is negotiating for the support of the Kurds, the second-largest group in the National Assembly. 

The Kurds want an agree­ment to return the oil-rich 
.northern city of Kirkuk to the autonomous Kurdish region as soon as the government· is installed. But an official from al-Sistani's office said ayatol­lah wants that issue dealt with in the constitution to be drafted by the assembly. 
Ousted dictator Saddam Hussein had Kurds forcib~y removed from Kirkuk and the surrounding area and moved in Iraqi Arabs to strengthen his control of the oil fields. 
In other violence Tuesday, Iraqi commandos backed by 
U.S. ground and air fire attacked an apparent insur­gent training camp near Lake. Tharthar in eastern Iraq, killing an undetermined num­ber of militants and capturing 20, the U.S. military said. Seven commandos were reported dead and six wound­ed. 
And in the northern city of Mosul, the deputy police com­mander, Col. 
south of Baghdad, Wathiq Ali, said
"My sense was he
attacked a group 17 militants 
of militants was certainly in no were killed and believed planning rush to hand over 14 captured late to raid the town Monday after
security to his new
and killed seven. during an assas:.
police force. ,,
Tuesday's gun­sination attempt battle came as on police offi­seven-member cials.
Barbara Boxer 
U.S. congression­Also in Mosul,
senator
al delegation paid a one-day visit to Baghdad, and the man expected to serve as the next prime minister, Shiite politi­cian Ibrahim ai-Jaafari, reportedly told the group he is in no hurry for U.S. troops to leave Iraq. 
Sen. Barbara Boxer, a Democrat from California who strongly opposed the war, said al-Jaafari didn't seem as "upbeat as our people, who seem to be very excited about the quality of the Iraqi police force." 
"My sense was he was cer­tainly in no rush to hand over security to his new police force," she said. 
Sen. Lamar Alexander, R­Tenn., agreed, saying that "it's too early to declare suc­cess." But Sen. Hichard Durbin, D-111., expressed "quiet optimism" about Iraq's future. 
Iraq's current prime minis­ter, Iyad Allawi, urged the new National Assembly to speed negotiations on forming a coalition government "so as to resume the operation of· rebuilding Iraq in all fields." 
Seeking to seal a political deal, the Shiite clergy's spiri­tual leader in Iraq, Grand Ayatollah Ali ai-Sistani, was expected to meet Wednesday with Jalal Talabani, the Kurdish leader likely to become the country's next president. 
111ections on Jan. 30 gave the biggest block of seats to a Shiite alliance backed by al­

a roadside bomb 
that exploded near a U.S. patrol killed four civilians. It wasn't immediate­ly clear if the troops suffered casualties. 
In the southern city of Kut, morgue officials said they had received a half dozen corpses of Iraqi army soldiers, each with bound hands and bullet­riddled heads and torsos. Six Iraqi soldiers were reported kidnapped Monday in Anbar province, west of Baghdad, police said. 
The insurgents, believed made up mostly of people from the Sunni Arab minority that dominated during Saddam's reign, consider Iraqi police and government officials traitors for working with U.S.-led coalition forces. 
The U.S. military reported that a Marine died Monday in Anbar province, which con­tains the flashpoint cities of Fallujah and Ramadi. No fur­ther details were given. 
Seeking to mend soured relations with Jordan, Iraq's national security adviser, Mouwafak al-Hubaie, said his nation's ambassador to Jordan would return to Amman "as soon as practical­ly possible." The announce­ment came a day after King Abdullah II ordered Jordan's top diplomat in Iraq to return to Baghdad. 
Both countries withdrew their envoys Sunday in a dis­pute over the infiltration of Jordanian insurgents across their common border. 

Foundry pleads guilty to felonies 
Associated Press 
TYLER, Texas -An east Texas foundry with a history of safety violations pleaded guilty Tuesday to two federal felonies and agreed to pay a $4.5 million fine for violating environmental laws and hiding information from government regulators. 
In the plea, officials at Tyler Pipe acknowledged concealing information when they rebuilt a 
. 60-foot, pollution-emitting fur­nace in violation of federal law and did not seek permits. The foundry also received a five-year probationary term 
that includes a compliance agreement requiring state-of­the-art pollution controls. 
Tyler Pipe is the first company to be criminally prosecuted under a provision of the U.S. Clean Air Act that requires modern pollution controls at factories, according to Arnold Spencer, an assistant U.S. attor­ney. 
Safety violations at the foundry have led to amputa­tions and deaths among work­ers. 
Federal officials declined to comment on whether they are investigating or have plans to prosecute individuals at Tyler Pipe. 
F.R. "Buck" Files, ail attorney for the company, said Tyler Pipe was required to turn over 400 boxes of documents. 
"The plant has now turned the corner of environmental compliance and is working to become a model for other com­panies," Files said. 
Tyler Pipe president David Green said the company has been making environmental reforms since 2001 and plans to spend at least $55 million on pollution controls and other improvements. 
EGYPT 

Candidate charged -with forgery 
Associated Press 
CAIRO -The only man who has dared to challenge Hosni Mubarak for the presidency was charged Tuesday with forging signatures to win approval for his party -an escalation in the government's confrontation with the mos_t prominent figure in Egypt's fledgling reform move­ment. 
Ayman Nour said he relished a court fight he maintained would give him a platform for his cam­paign and his criticism of Mubarak's regime. 
''I'm personally the happiest person in Egypt by this decision, because every session of this trial will be a ch-ance to meet our people and supporters," he told The Associated Press. "The regim~ will stand trial in this court. 
Prosecutors accused Nour of forging signatures required for the registration application of his Al-Ghad -or 'Tomorrow" -party. The 40-year-old politi­cian denies the charges, saying they are an attempt to wreck him politically. 
Nour was arrested in January and detained for six weeks with­out charge -sparking tensions between Egypt and the United States, which demanded his release. The dispute came at a time when Washington was pressing Egypt to lead demo­cratic reform in the Middle East. 
After Mubarak opened the door for multi-party elections last month, Nour announced from jail his bid to run in the September presidential election, then repeated it last week in front of hundreds of cheering supporters after his release from custody. 
He had been one of many call­ing for open elections, but the arrest put the savvy populist at the center of the increasingly vocal democratic movement in Egypt. 
"We will continue to fight this dictatorship," said Nour, who maintains people planted by the government forged the papers to frame him. He vowed to expose them in court -and to expose those who "forged the will of the nation" during the past half cen­tury of elections in Egypt. 
"We will call into this trial all the symbols and officials of those forged referendums and put them into the court to testify," Nour said, adding that his defense team would seek testi­mony from previous interior ministers who helped rtin elec­tions. 
FLY FOR FREE NEXT WEEI<! 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to Notre Dame on 
Wednesday, March 30, to take you on trial flights. We're looking for afew college students who have the smarts, skills and interest to be aMarine pilot. 
If you're interested, we'll guarantee you a free flight school, offer tuition assistance and someday put you in a Harrier, ~ Cobra or F/A-18 Hornet. 4.1J/'Jl. 
Get in the air. -~~ Get some information. tf:~'f'i'tt-The flight is on us. \.~
...~ 

...~ ~
.. .
.... 


CONTACT YOlllt MARINE (Oiti'S 01TICER SELECTION TEAM 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY! 
1st Lt. Barclay or Gunnery Sgt. Templeton 
765-479-1275 

OSOLAF@9MCD.USMC.Mil 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 

MarineOfficer.com 
1001 

Wednesday, March 23, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Jury to decide fate of imtnigrant smuggler 
Williams continues to wait as jurors deliberate 
resume deliberalions on Wednesday in the trial of IIOUSTON -A jury in tho Tyrone Williams, who is t~i;tl of a man accused of driv­charged with 5S counts of ing and abandoning an air­conspiracy, harboring and light tractor-trailer paeked transporting immigrants. lie with morn than 70 illegal faces the death penalty if con­immigrants nruled its sneond victed for his role in the May day of dnliberations Tuesday 200:{ smuggling attempt in without rPaehing a vnrdiet. whieh 19 of the passengers 
Jurors wPrP scheduled to died. 

Associated Press 
Tax co111pany charged vvith theft 
returns and payments mai11~d dostroynd by mnploynns who fi~lt
Associated Press 
from taxpayers across the swamped by tlw amount of 
Northeast wore lost or work. 
PITTSBUHGII -Six nmploy­dnstroyed aftor being sent to tho Company spokesman Bon ees of a e<Hnpany that processed company, which was ono of sev­Grunndl said Tw~sday tho prob­federal tax returns were indict­eral firms eontractod to collect lems worn "caused by a few ~~d Tuesday on charges they hid paymnnts fm tho govornment. employoes who blatantly violat­and later destroyed about. Mellon's contract with tho ed Mellon's long-nstabfislwd, HO,OOO returns and $1 billion in Internal Revenue Snrvieo dmtrly stated polidns." payments to make it appear required it to eomplnte the proj­The govnrnrnnnt SJH'nt employees had met a deadline. ect by April 29, 200 I. As thn months settling taxpaynrs' 
The employees faeed charges deadline neared, one employen accounts. In Dnenrnber 2002, of conspiracy and theft for the directed live others to destroy Mellon ar111ourH:nd it had paid activities at Mellon Financial in the materials, according to tho $5.3 million to the Treasury the spring of 2001, during the indictment. Dnpartnwnt to settln adrninis­peak tax-return processing Mellon ollkials have acknowl­trativn cosL'i. Earli11r, Mellon had period. edged the returns and paymnnts paid $12.H million to covm· lost 
Tens of thousands of tax may have been hidden or intnrnst. 




FAITHPOINT 
Wednesday, March 23 
What~·up? 
Today,3/23 
*Eucharistic Adoration (ever week day. 12-7 PM. COMO Chapel) 


Easter Vigil Easter Sunday Masses
*Four:7 (10-11 PM COMO Lounge) Topic: Courage in the Face of 

Saturday, 9 PM 8 AM, 10 AM, 12 PM, 9 PM (Student Mass) 
Suffering 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart Basilica of the Sacred Heart *Sant'Egidio Prayer Community (5:30PM, Log Chapel) 

ay 



*RCIA Morning Retreat (10-1 PM. Basilica) 
*Holy Thursday Mass (5 PM. 

*Good Friday Service (3 PM. 
COMO Lounge) *Easter Vigil Mass (see above) Reception of the RCIA Elect into 
Basilica) 
the Church 
one 
1-7800 
Web 


Retreats Office 

C-M
campusmjnjstr:y.nd.edu 
114 CoMo 
Campus Ministry 
Lead Kindly Light: 
Prayers from the Campus Ministry Prayer Book 
On this most holy night when our Lord, Jesus Christ, 
passed from death to life, the Church invites her children throughout the world to come together in vigil and in prayer. This is the Passover of the Lord. If we honor the memory of his death and resurrection 
by hearing his Word and celebrating his mysteries, then we may be confident that we shall share his victory over death and live with him forever in God. 
-from the Easter Vigil Liturgy 
Ncar the conclusion of the season of Lent, Holy Week is this most special time of year when we solemnly retlect on the pas~ing of Jesus from life, to death, to new life. It begins with Palm Sunday, and culminates in the liturgies of the Sacred Triduum (Latin for "three days") on Holy Thursday, Good Friday, and Holy Saturday, before Easter Sunday. 
Holy Week festivities begin on a high note, with the remembrance of Jesus's tri­umphant entry into Jerusalem at the Mass of Palm Sunday of the Lord's Passion. As its name might suggest, however, this Mass moves quickly to a much more 


*see above for Mass times 
*Nothing scheduled 


Dom feels called to work with youth and help them understand the importance of their faith. This spring he is putting that to action and as he leads two Parish Confirmation retreats for high school students. He thinks it is important that everyone talk about faith because it, "allows you to he real with other people." For Dom, planning and leading the retreats is a nice break. "College is a time where all my time is spent on myself-this is a way I can be working on something unselfish." 
Recently, Dom joined the Folk Choir. Thank you for everything you do, Dom! Campus Ministry appreciates your faithful commitment and hard work! 
Easter  1st  2nd  Gospel 
Sunday  Sunday  Acts 10:34a,  1 Corinthians  John  
Scrivtures..,  37-43  5:6b-8  20:1-9  


LIVE IT!!! @,
...... 


J! A 
Talk about jumping right into things! When Dominic Pepper arrived as a freshman this fall he learned that there was no liturgical com­missioner in Morrissey Manor; confidently he stepped up to the plate. In addition to taking on dorm Mass responsibilities, Dom is part of Campus Ministry's Freshman Peer Leaders Program and leader of an Emmaus Small Faith Sharing group based on The Theology of the Body. How'd he get involved so quickly? Dom attended the CM Open House in September and funny enough that's where he met two of his best friends! 
Catholic Q&A for this liturgy are invited to come forward to venerate the cross 
somber tone, as we hear the with a kiss, and Holy 
What are Holy Week & the 
entire Passion narrative from the Last Supper through the crucifixion, death, and placing of Christ in the tomb. Throughout Holy Week, Mass readings will spend additional time retlecting on each of these events: readings on Holy Monday & Holy Tuesday lead us to "Spy Wednesday," when Judas lscariot's betrayal of Jesus is remembered. 
Holy Thursday's Mass of the Lord's Supper recalls Jesus's institution of the Eucharist and His 
Sacred Triduum? 

commandment (in Latin, mandatum) to serve others as represented by His washing the disci­ples' feet. 
At the Good 

Friday Celebration of the Lord's Passion, we recall with mourning and sadness the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Those who gather 
Communion is distributed 
using the bread consecrated 
on Holy Thursday. 

On Holy Saturday evening, the Easter Vigil celebrates the Jesus's Resurrection and the salvation that He won for us! The Catholic Church also welcomes new members into the fold through the Sacraments of Baptism, Confirmation, and Eucharist celebrated at this liturgy. With much joy and many "Alleluia's", the Church proclaims the very heart of our Christian faith 
*Bible Study with Fr. Frank Zagorc 
(1:30-9:30 PM. 316 COMO) 
in Word, Song, and Sacrament. Easter Sunday morning Masses all continue the great celebration that began at the Easter Vigil. means are sufficient to defend human lives against an aggressor..., public authority should limit itself to such means" (#2267). The Church, in its efforts to promote the respect of all human life, challenges us today to take the higher road on this issue. 
Send y()ur ques/i()ll.~ /() Perkim.26@nd.edu 


TI--··IE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 23, 2005 

THE OBSERVER 
Celebrating Taco Bell boycott victory 
page 10 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDIIDR 8USINFSS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDimR: Graham Ebersch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 

WEB ADMINISTRAIDR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE . 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivelyas possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $100 for one academic yt~tt; $55 for one ~mesrer. 
The Obsc:rvcr Ul publish<!d at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage p.1id at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notrt Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Presi. All n:production rights are reserved. 
TODAV'S STAFF 

Two weeks ago, I received a call I never imagined would come. A friend and colleague phoned me to say the Taco Bell Boycott-a four-year cam­paign within an 11-year struggle -had ended in victory for 
Kama ria 
the Coalition of 
Porter

Immokalee Workers. About 11 years ago, 
Love in the

migrant farmworkers 
Ruins

-Americans, Mexicans, Haitians and other nationalities -started to organize around their joint suffering in the Florida tomato fields. Paid starva­tion wages of 40 to 50 cents per 32­pound bucket of produce, denied the right to organize, unable to have pen­sions, overtime, health insurance and other labor benefits, and even (in at least five known cases) held against their liberty and forced to work like slaves; farmworkers saw themselves imprisoned in a cycle of oppression and poverty and were ready to fight back. By crossing ethnic and language barri­ers, they organized the Coalition of 
Immokalee Workers. 
Four years ago, after discovering the bulk of their tomato labor going to thriving Taco Bell restaurants, the workers decided to launch a consumer boycott of the company and sought allies. 
My story in this began when, as a first year student, I attended a Progressive Student Alliance meetings and learned about the boycott. Never having eaten at a Taco Bell before ­combining Mexican cuisine and fast food never seemed right -I figured I should participate in the organizing component. By sophomore year, I found myself planning our weekly protests ­Fair Food Fridays at the LaSalle Taco Bell, going to meetings with adminis­tration lawyers about the boycott and our contract with the company and talking with Student Farmworker Alliance members from Florida to California. 
While I have never been to Immokalee and seen the conditions, nor do I have personal ties to migrant farmworkers, I was drawn to the move­ment. Seeing people standing up for themselves, asserting their right to receive a livable wage inspired me to work in solidarity with them. Additionally, it angered me that grow­ers abused these vital workers through forced labor to no other end but higher profits. I did not want to live complicity in a country that allows such exploita­tion. 
About a year ago, the local campaign to get Notre Dame to take a stance for justice with the Immokalee farmwork­ers seemed bleak. Our meetings with administrators were not going any­where. 
Then, unexpectedly during PSA's Student Week of Action, a friend and comrade, Tony Rivas, decided to go on a seven day hunger strike to call atten­tion to the ways our University was out of step with Catholic Social Teaching principles, especially in terms of the Taco Bell contract and campus labor policies. His stand for justice and self­sacrifice ignited a fire under our stu­dent-organizing project. 
Our core of students began arranging a larger contingent of 147 student jus­tice fasters, wrote letters to newspa­pers, organized protests and a sit in at the administration building. As one of the lead organizers, I saw courage and resolve in others around me that we only dream of experiencing. We never had time to say it, but we all felt we were making history. Winning our Notre Dame campaign was an added bonus to an already great accomplish­ment. 
Now that the boycott nationally has ended with YUM! Foods/ Taco Bell agreeing to pay the coveted "one more penny per pound" and to work with th~ CIW to enforce labor codes of conduct and make industry wide changes, I feel we must all pause to not only celebrate this enormous victory, but also view this event in a context of a larger and longer fight for justice denied by people forgotten. 
Other companies must follow Taco Bell's example to enforce labor and wages codes for workers in their supply chain. Labor makes our lives possible from the food we eat, to the buildings we live in, to the stores and restaurants we frequent. However, labor is not a commodity -labor is people -living, loving, working and deserving recogni­tion. Whether in the Florida fields or Notre Dame's Campus, workers ought to have a living wage and a means to organize for changes in working condi­tions. · 
This feat is a step along the way for me. Robert F. Kennedy once spoke of victories like these: "Few will have the greatness to bend history; but each of us can work to change a small portion of events, and in the total of all those acts will be written the history of this generation." 
No one could have seen a group of workers, students, religious and com­munity folk joining together to bring a major corporation to act justly. I know I have been changed and as the struggle for worker justice continues, I would take up its mantel any day with the hope from this victory in my pocket. 
Kamaria Porter is a junior history major. Her column appears every other Wednesday. She can be contacted at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports Kate Antonacci Mike Gilloon 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Laird Ann Loughery Lisa Schultz . Tim Dougherty 
In your NCAA bracket, how 
"The final test of a leader is that he 

Viewpoint Scene 
many teams do you have left in 
leaves behind him in other men the

Becca Rosswurm Becca Saunders 
Graphics Illustrator your Sweet 16? 
conviction and the will to carry on." 

Mark Harkins Graham Ebestch 
Walter Lippmann

Vote by today at 5 p.m. at 
American author

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
---~--------~-­

THE 0HSERVER · 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 23, 2005 page I I 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Symposium to expose ways women handle conflict and resolution 
I found a March 21 letter to the editor from a n1cent and fellow alumna of groat int11r11st and am compnlled to rnspond. 
I certainly hope to bn pr11snnt at the dia­loguns, but have an nntirely diiTnn1nt takn on tlw "Wonwn. War, and Peace: F11minist lnt11rvnntions in a Time of Conflict" sympo­situn. 
I conw to thn table as a proud alumna of Saint Mary's College, dass of I979, and l"irst to hn commissioned at Notre Dame in th11 /\rmy HOTC program. I view the sympo­sium as an attempt to expose the usually radical differences in tlw way wunwn think and handle conflict and resolution. Whereas women are relational and utilize words over fists, they are integraJiy impor­tant participants in the complex dneision­making procnssns that are bning madn daily by our nation. 
Tlw nwre bnlief that then1 is an ineidnnt that denotns a causn for "war" or the casu­al taking of a life to solve eonl'lict is enough of a reason for mn to admire Saint Mary's for thnir invitation for engagemnnt and dnbate at Women, War and Peace. 
I believe that. t.hn innquitabln or low num­ber of women present in our military and govnrnnwntal ranks is signil'icant to aiTnct tlw outcome of war versus peace and the how and the why of what is being done. I am looking for a radical and thought· pro­voking debate that will get women thinking and deciding that they want to be that they must he pmsent at these decision making tables in order to influence the outcomes: Voting for others to represent our best int11rests is not 11nough. The wonderful ways and wisdom or women must be valued and promoted by all women at the very least with the embracing of it by contempo­rary and enlighted men as well. 
I am proud of my decision to join the mil­itary. I stand on my belief that I wanted to 
preserve peace. I still want to preserve 
pnaec with war as the last resort. l am not 
unrealistic in thinking that compassionate 
listening and other feminine skills can be called upon to prevent all wars and con­
flict. But with more women in positions of' leadership, I know there will b11. attempts made towards this outcome. Thor11 would be a difference. I spent 10 years involved, but chose to remove myself from the mili­tary and am currently looking for the next opportunity to lead in troubled times. I am 
rweded. We all are. 
The human condition defines us·as people. who come with biases, but we need those biased and diverse pnople to come together and share their biases as leaders. We must learn from each other to deeidc if war is the only way to go and why. /\nd if women choose not to lead in some way then they must know that there is that potential to to be viewed as an oppressor to the oppressed. 
There is no excuse for non-participation and we need the thought-provokers to spur us into action and leadership. Getting into public office or positions of inl'luence is another story. Perhaps this dilema is why we have feminists feeling that they arc lim­ited to symposiums to express their views. 
Sadly, our male dominated society does not always embrace women as leaders. That attitude is still out there. Misunderstanding of "women's ways" by other women is the real tragedy. 
I am hoping the symposium will provide for an expression or a holistic feminist view to round out the often inequitable and too frequently heard other side of the biases. 
Mary Lauck Morgan Saim Mary's alumna 1979 March 22 


Students should be held responsible 
I'm waiting for my flight to New York. Today I have an interview with a prestigious bank. I should be excited, but I'm not. I keep asking myself the same question: lias Notre Damn really prnparnd me for this monu~nt'? I want to say "yes," but I can't. 
While the Univnrsity "prides itself on higher quality and challenging professors, we enjoy inflated GPAs, weekends of party­ing and reject discussions of business in a business class for discussions of the past weekend's activities. 
Professors must bear some of the censure 
as well. Rarely have I taken a class that 
being an environment of teaching 
forces students to consider an issue 
and learning which fosters tho dtwnlopnwnt in its students of thosP. disciplined habits of mind. body and spirit which eharaetorize mlueated. skilled and free human ]wings," it fails to promote a learning atmosphere that advances thos11 criti­cal thinking skills neces­sary for wnll-roundP.d and learrwd individuals. 
Sadly. at Notre Dame there is no learning for the sake of learning. Tho focus of' tho majority of students is their (;1'/\. In response, professors eon­eentrate on structuring courses around grades rather than discovery. 1\ltogotlwr, the pursuit of knowledge and tho growth of the individual havn assumed secondary status to preserving 
· beyond what is on the surface. Instead, I constantly encounter exams and papers that empha­size rote memorization and the ability to regurgitate the professor's opinions. Finally. the administra­
tors and trustees of this University-who take pride in a homogenous campus-are not f'ree 
from culpability. 
These people continue to place a run-of-the-mill football program at the forefront of an "elite" 

institution of learning. It is this sad truth, along with all of the other fail­ures that I have mentioned, which forces me to deelare that tho time has come for 
someone to stand up and seck change. So, as those workers brighten 
the egos of the students of this 
the golden dome, who among us 
University. 
The people who should be held most responsible for Notre Dame's failurn arc the students. Notre Dame is our school. It is our interests that drive the direction of this plaee. Yet. instead of demanding that the University offer us more, we sit idly. Hather than force the administration to seck out 
will demand the brightening of Notre Dame's less-than-golden academic life ­you or I? 
Broderick Henry sophomore Stanford Hall March 22 


From the depths of sorrow to the joy of neW life 


During this week, we will celebrate moments of deepest grief and sorrow, as well as occasions or great hope and unbridled joy. This week, we accompany Jesus from the Last Supper through the days of his passion and death and to his resurrection. Tomorrow, with our celebration of the Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 5 p.m., we 
Richard

will join hundreds of millions of Catholics around 
Warner

tho world to celebrate the Easter Triduum. On Holy Thursday, we celebrate our call to lov­
FailhPoint

ing service of all people as the liturgy center on 
the example Jesus gave us when he washed the feet of his disciples at the Last Supper. That night is very spedal to 
us as well, for it was at the Last Supper where Jesus instituted the 
Eucharist and established tho priesthood so that what he did eould 
be repeated in Christian communities until the end of time. When we celebrate the Eucharist remembering tho life-giving death of Jesus, the effects of this saving mystery are made pres11nt to us. 
On Good Friday at 3 p.m., we will gather for the Celebration of the Lord's Passion. The liturgy ineludes the sung Passion according to John, the great prayers for the Church and for the world asking that the saving death of Jesus might assist all believers to come to know God's love expressed through the cross, the veneration of the Cross and reception of the Eucharist. . 
The Stations of the Cross will be celebrated Friday evnning. 
/\rter a day of prayer and waiting, the great Easter Vigil will bn celebrated on Saturday night. Through the use of symbols, song and readings from Scripture, Salvation history is reeounted until a moment when the resurreetion or Jesus from the dead is pro­claimed and celebrated. The Basilica comes to life as it is bathed in light, and as the sounds of the organ and bells. and alleluias fill that sacred space. The newest membnrs of our Notre Dame com­munity will be weleomed as members of the Catholic Chureh as their receive baptism, and the end of Lent is marked by the renew­al of baptismal promises by joy-filled believers. 
Easter Sunday Masses will be celcbratnd at ·R a.m., I 0 and noon. And as is our tradition on campus, an unpuhlislwd Mass at 9 p.m. will bring hundreds of Notre Dame students to the Basilka for a great celebration with the Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
Throughout these holy days, thorn will be many opportunities for communal and private prayer, as well as for sacramental rec­onciliation. The Basilica will be opnn for all of us to simply enjoy a few moments of silence at the end of Lent, and to think about our relationship to Jesus Christ, the Chureh and our eommunity of believers. 
Notre Dame has always been a placn whorn the Eucharist is treasured by the members of our community and whnrn liturgy is celebrated in a beautiful and moving way with thn assistance of many members of the staff's of Campus Ministry and of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. And thanks, as well, to thn generous serviee of' hundreds of students who provide music for our eernmonies and who serve in the many difTcmnt ministries. 
If you are away from Campus with family and friends, know that you will be remembered in our prayers this w1111k, and be sure to see how beautiful the Basilica is when you return. If you will be on Campus, please join us for as many of thnse momnnts of prayer as you can during the holiest days of our faith. 
Richard Warner is the director ofCampus Ministry. 1/e can be contacted at Warner.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE 0HSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, March 23, 2005 
VIDEO GAME REVIEWS 
"Star Wars: Republic Commando" focuses on the storyline that takes place between the second and the third "Star Wars" movies. 
Quality of 'Tekken' series continues 

By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Writer 
Very few games have the longevity to endure through the years -many or them hardly last longer than a few weeks. A lot of the original Nintendo games fall under this category, as well as "Halo" and "Super Smash Brothers Melee." 
But now, another year has come around and another "Tekken" has been released. The general principle has remained the same as previous "Tekken" games. The player first chooses his vir­tual avatar 'from a rather large assortment. The player then proceeds through many rounds of a fighting tournament in hopes of becoming the vic­tor. Not entirely original, but there weren't any elements that really needed to be improved a great deal in the first place. 
"Tekken 5" is the latest in a long line of fighting games. Actually it is the sixth game of the series and is the third iteration on the Playstation 2. Being the latest in a long series, "Tekken" has aged as gracefully as one could hope. It is definite­ly one of the better, if not the most polished, fight­ing game currently out on the market. 
For being a fighting game, the individual storylines for each of the char­acters can be quite engaging. The Mishima Corporation is in turmoil because it's leader, Heihachi Mishima, dies in the introductory cinema. Let it be known that Heihachi has been a staple of "Tekken" since its inception. By killing him off before the game begins, it shows that Namco is willing to shake things up a little in the name of innovation. 
After Heihachi dies, the King of Iron Fist Tournament is once again scheduled. This is the tournament that "Tekken" bases its sto­ryline on in the previous versions. However, Heihachi was usually the sponsor and therefore a bit of mystery is created concerning the sponsor of the tournament. 
This question is what drives some of the partici­pants. Other characters are fighting for personal reasons, some for control of the company and some just for the money. All of the characters have some motivation to be in the tournament and each one has multiple story-driven fights, as well as a 


Tekken 5 
Playstation 2 

Mark's Grade: A 
final fully-rendered CGI cinema. This is a major plus, as it gives more depth to each of the fighters. 
Of course, storyline would not mean so much if the actual game plays did not back it up. Let it be known first that the execution is near flawless. Moves are not difficult to pull off, yet they are still above the level of the average button-masher. Anyone can hop into the game and win some rounds with any character. However, it is only by taking time to study the intricacies of the charac­ters that one can learn the really cool moves and long combos unique to each character. 
Each character has a distinct personality and fighting style -a step up from previous versions. Namco has rid the game of the clones that plagued previous versions and have created more diversity between the remain. Nam rid of the gam levels in "Tek they did r destroyable t is a nice bon ming a guy in to see it shatt force is quite s 

The game wealth of bo can modify t characters' a changing both larger aspee appearance. people to ass more with th fighter, as the them to beco their liking. 
Also includ of the previou the game. " through "Te included wit free or charg arcade perfe they may no included is a made by Nam 
Rounding o mode. The pl beat-em-up fighter Jin th endless suppl extra "Tekke gets old rathe 
For those h released an $100, one ca joystick in a c 



'St~r Wars: Republic Commando' brings b 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Writer 
Pirst-person shooter video games are becoming a dime a dozen on the Microsoft X-Box. They run the range from garbage, such as "Robocop," to the truly excellent games, such as "Halo." With the recent release of the new "Timesplitters,." it may be easy to overlook shooter games in general. However, with the last Star Wars movie on the · 
horizon, overlooking "Star Wars: Republic 
Commando" would be a shame. The setting of the game takes place at the end of · the second movie, "The Clone Wars." The gamer is placed in the boots of one of Jango Fett's many clones. This placement may lead people into believing the storyline will be boring, but people who may think that would be misinformed. As the game explains, each of the clones begins 
to develop a different personality as they mature. 
Further distinguishing the clones is the fact that some are trained to a greater degree than your average storm trooper. These special clones, with the extra attentions, become com­mandos for the Republic and become part of an elite force. The player assumes the role of leader of the elite force. The player is Delta 38, the leader of Delta Squad. 
Rounding out the group of commandos is Delta 07, Delta 40 and Delta 62. Although the names may seem bland each 
courtesy I "Delta" is given a distinct nick­name and per­
sonality within the squad. Delta 07 is referred to as Sev and at times is downright psychotic. lie's the violent hunter of the group and tends to charge headfirst at the enemy trying to melee them to death. 
Delta 40 is referred to as Fixer and is the intelli­gent one in the group. If there's a terminal any­where that needs hacking, or a task that requires any level of refinement, he's your clone. Delta 62 is known as Scorch and is the comedic relief. lie earned his njlme through his penchant for explo­sives and numerous close shaves with them. 
Star Wars: Republic Commando 
Microsoft X-Box 

Mark's Grade: A 

Even though most of the characters you work with are clones of a single man, they each have a distinct personality that helps drive the game. Being a squad-based game, they are often by the side of the player. Using them for support and giv­ing them commands is often vital for success in the game, even on the easiest level. The squadmates are often the only source of help for the player. Their constant banter makes the player begin to think of them according to their personalities, instead of just computer generated and controlled characters. 
Gfving them commands is not very complicated. Every command in the game is done through push­ing the '/\ button, sometimes accompanied by a hit of the directional pad for specific directions. This aspect hand! intuitively frorr ning and shoul anyone from 1 gain e. 

If the playe give any comm squad they wiL and react in fashion. They toss grenade help wounded all without tl input. llowev utilize tlw gan er should int the squad and mands. Like leader, you're tically increas€ tiveness of y1 Under the or< player the squ; turrest or ass positions, all! things. In instances the: down a suppre1 
However, if, probably inter~ viously mentiol the second an! Geonosis, whic being the loca' player is dropr battle and mw scene does not 
more typic~! fil 
er enters mto factory. The story b1 ghost ship of 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE ­
Wednesday, March 23, 2005 
ck the shooter game 
s almost lhn hngin­not dntnr aying thn 
do11s not. nds to thl' 'ollow him 11 logical 
•pk rovnr, 
and will ·omradns, 
• playPrs ·. to fully tlu• play­·art with VI' it corn­lilY good rput dras­tlw niTe«:­tr squad. rs of' tim will man rw snipnr ng o tlw r cnrtain 
PVI'n lay ivtl firn at the lnadnrs t:ommand. JIIIPorw is rnading this they are tnd in thn actual storylinn. As pre­HI, t.lw gamn takns plaen betwenn 
third rnovin. It lwgins on l'lannt pnopln will probably rnnwmbnr as 111 for parts of' sncond nwvin. The I into tlw midst of' tlw initial l>roid 
avoid tlw giant droid tanks. This tstlong and quickly drangns into a t pnrson shootPr garnn as thn play­ro srnall«ll' corridors of tlw droid 
ndws ofT af'tnr that, l'irst into a 111 llnpuhlie's and later onto the 

rws that got also of slantnd n 4." but ai 11 thn ain. This as slam­tho glass 
undnr tho sfying. ·o has a sns. Orw 
favoritn n a ran«~ e, Htllnr and of their is allows iatn oven favoritn ur change morn to 
arP SOIIJ(' ~rsions of kk«Hl I" «~n-3" is hP ganw Thny are 
ports, so ~ nxuetly as some recall. Also ret un-loekahle old areadn game 
he extras is the "Devil Within" r gets to play an old-fashioned P game, where one guides the gh rooms while fighting a near bad guys. Similar to the prnvious ren," it's a nien free add-on but ickly. eorn "Tnkknn" fans, Nameo has 1d trnat. For thn hefty price of rehasn tho gamn with an arcade ~tor's casn. The areadn stick is of 
planet Kashyyyk, which fans will recognize as being the planet of the Wookies. The game is con­sidered to follow the official storyline and serves as a bridgo between tho l'inal films. It certainly goes doopcr into tho Separatist movenwnt, as you control the forces lighting the said forces. 
For a Star Wars fan with an X-Box, this becomes a highly reeommendnd buy. It is also good for the avnrage X-Box owner, as onn does not need to know the general storyline to understand the game. Befon~ the movie arrives in May, join the Hepublie Commandos. You won't regret it, although it does run to the short side lengthwise. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
ith 'Tekken 5' 
very high quality, being mostly made of steel. It has some hef't to it and responds well to inputted commands. However, for those not used to it, it can be distracting. It's perfect for the fans of the arcade versions, but may not be appropriate for all. 
"Tekken 5," as far as fighting games go, is a great game. It's a perfect continuation of the beloved series and it incof'porates old characters with new characters flawlessly. Whether one is a newcomeror a veteran to the series, one will feel at ease jumping right into the game. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
page 13 

PLAY REVIEW 
'Ancient History' digs up laughs 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN A.sistant Scene Editor 
Fast, cheap and fun -if that's your preferred style, think about spending time with "Anei«mt History" tonight. 
Just a little over one hour and only two dollars. "Ancient History" is a fling of' a play about relationships that are sort of like your life, but fun­nier. But for all its laughs, it carries a deeper message about comrnitnwnt. memories and how passing time aiTects both. · 
.Jack (Bryce Cooper) is brimming with energy and thinking about sex. All tho time. His girlfriend Huth (Kathleen Ryan) is thinking more about marriage, kids and wh ieh Hebrew school the aforementioned kids should attend. As the play opens, they are dancing in their bathrobes and rhapsodizing about the paradise that is their relation­ship. They dance in sync and live in utopia as Jack dips Huth to the romantic music. 
It s~mns too good to be true -and it is. Little problems spring up like baby wends in a garden. Jack has a tendency to repeat stories and to refer to his "hor­rid ex-wife." A ness!"), or it could havn hePn lwr focus on money and stability, hut in tho ond the aud ion co «~an't tPII who is morn at fault.. Tlwre's too murh "What'?" followed by, "Nothing," toward tlw mHI for tlw ndationship to stand up to heated discussions. Finally, .lack nnds up at the bar, n~el­ing from a quiek nngagenwnl. 
"Lif'n took a hit of' a zigzag thnre at. thn party, but that's what part.ins an~ for," he says in an inadv«~rtPntly sag«' comment.. 
Ilallio Taylor, tho director. pick«~d the play because its message stood out f'rorn thn otlwr plays slw rnad. 
"It's about how pnopln relate and how we deal with situations," Taylor said~ "and how big of' an impact peo­ple ean have on us even aft.nr things arn over. Thny play is obviously a memory play." 
Taylor thought that the actors were a perfect fit for their parts. 
"I thought they just did a fabulous job ... they just seem to «~apt urn that playful joy, especially in the begin­ning and that suddon switch," Taylor said. · 
Audinnce member Matt Ninvns agreed about thn acting. 
"I thought it was roally good ­
thny snemed to 
havn good elwm­

birthday present istry onstagn,"
Ancient History 

incident will Ninves said. relate to anyone 
·Bryce Cooper, who has ever thn main lead, opened some­thought that. tlw thing lame il) a characters wnrn pretty box, and ef'l'eetive bncausn
Writer: David Ives 

discussion of the they remind tlw
Director: Hallie Taylor 

past creates rip­audiencn how
Starring: Kathleen Ryan and ples on the sur­Bryce Cooper

face of the 
utopia. 

The scenes play like memories, acted out one way and then in a slightly alten~d version. Proposals shift tho ambiance immediately, as they are likely to do in real life. Cynicism starts to sneak up on the blind optimism of tho opening scone, and kids, Germans, love, Jews and religion in general are all under scrutiny, or even attack. Jack, who has German heritage and an affinity for making Jewish jokes, irritates tlw Yiddish-vocabulary-dropping Huth. 
Jack thinks hell is other people, but Huth later disagrees. "Hell isn't other people," she says. "llell is remembering other people." 
It takes until the final scene to understand this line fully, but there's more relationship muck to trudge through first. The arguments increase in frequency and volume; Jack asks sarcastically at one point, "Do I hear silence'?" in response to one of Huth's pouts. The intensity still gives way to lighter moments, like Jack's hilarious impression of a friend's wealthy Israeli husband or his inclusion of gin as a hormone. 
It doesn't end up that one thing that comes between the perfect cou­ple. It's everything-her parents, his job, her friends, his cynicism and even her shoes. He tells her about "stairway thoughts" when they talk about the past-it's when you're on the stairs to leave and "you realize what you should have said to the bas­tard back there." Little do they real­ize, they're making their own history, paved with stairway thoughts and confused recollections. 
It could have been his immaturity or one-track mind ("We have to do something about this chronic horni­com plieatnd n~ta­
tionships are. 
"I just think it's sad sometimes how peopln who can be so in love with nach othnr or havn such a strong relationship can end just. on a few dif'fnnmt opinions, likn religion or ehildrnn," Coopnr said. "I think it's nspneially twrtinnnt at a place like Notre Dame." 
lie thought t.hn humor was dPrivnd from how he and Hyan play«'d ofT one another. 
"They ways they intnract with nach other arn vnry sardonic and I think that when two people know each oth.nr really well, and play around with each other like this, that's how you maintain a relationship f'or so long," Cooper said. "You nntertain each other, and it entnrtains the audience as well." 
lie citnd highs and lows in tlw play as bning ime of' its strengths. 
"The best plays arn onns that havn a range of emotion in them, where the audience will f'nel that range of' emotion. I think this is dnfinitely one of' them, whore thny certainly will laugh but by the end they're also sad and maybe thinking about their own relationships -I think it's easy to put yourself' in the shoes of the char­acters," Coopnr said. 
Those emotions certainly reached out. to audif1nce member Keith Harwood, who delibnrated for a few minutes before delivering his verdiet on the night. 
"I'm speechless," he said. 
"Ancient History" will also be per­formed tonight at the Hegis Philbin Studio Theater in the Performing Arts 'Center at 7:30. Tickets are $2 and can be purchastld atthe door. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 



----------~~--~-·---­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 23, 2005 
NBA 



Rockets flying high after defeating Heat 84-82 
Associated Press the best of his personal rivalry Radmanovic, who probably is 
with Yao. Wade added 20 on lost for the remainder of the 
HOUSTON -Finally someone just 4-of-19 shooting and Jones regular season because of a found a way to stop the Miami had 16 points and seven stress fracture in his right leg. Heat. rebounds. Michael Redd scored 22 points 
Aging center Dikembe SuperSonics 92, Bucks 84 and Desmond Mason had 21 for Mutombo gave Houston a huge Seattle SuperSonics forward the Bucks, the last-P.lace team lift off the bench, Tracy Hashard Lewis went to his first in the Central Division which· McGrady scored 26 points and All-Star game in Denver in beat the Sonics by 26 in the Hockets snapped the Heat's February and paid elose atten­Milwaukee in February. The 12-game winning streak with a tion to all the players around Bucks lost for the fifth time in victory. him. seven games. 
"You just have to be prepared It's showing. Kings 112, Trail Blazers 93 from a mental standpoint and Lewis scored 29 points and After seeing so many hasty you have to be focused," Luke Hidnour added a career­coaching changes in the NBA Mutombo said of facing O'Neal. high 21, leading the Seattle this season, Rick Adelman is "You have to find a way to chal­SuperSonics to victory over the even more appreciative of his lenge him and get inside of his Milwaukee Bucks. opportunity to keep piling up head and not give him any easy "Just being around all those wins with the Sacramento dunks. That's something that I guys, observing them and taking Kings. think I always do well against in every thing I could has helped Kenny Thomas had 24 points him." me," said Lewis of his All-Star and nine rebounds in his best 
David Wesley scored 14 experience. game in Sacramento, and points, and Yao Ming and sel­The best advice though, came Adelman got his 700th career dom-used forward Clarence from Minnesota's Kevin Garnett. victory against his former team Weatherspoon added 12 to keep "He told me a lot of things I in the Kings' win over the the NBA's top-scoring twosome could work on during the sum­Portland Trail Blazers. of O'Neal and Dwyane Wade in mer to keep my body healthy Adelman became the 15th check. and continue to play an 82-NBA coach to reach the mile­
McGrady, who scored a total game season and play 35 and stone as Sacramento routed the of 37 points and shot just 27 40 minutes a night," Lewis said. Blazers, who have employed percent in the previous two "It felt like he took me under his him as a player and a coach. He games, struggled again to-find wing like I was his little broth­led Portland to the NBA Finals his shot, going 8-of-27, but er." in 1990 and 1992, and he has made all the clutch plays down With the Sanies short-handed, directed the Kirigs to seven the stretch. Lewis had to play 40 minutes straight winning seasons. 
During one late sequence, despite painful tendinitis in his "Each time one of these hap­McGrady scooped up a loose left knee that has bothered him pens, you appreciate it more," ball, beat Eddie Jones with a for half the season. Adeknan said. "When you look crossover dribble and drilled a "It's something that I can't get back, you know how much deep 3 that gave Houston a 7 4-rid of until the season is over so effort went into it, and you 62 lead with fewer than 6 min­I'm going to have to hobble my know the people around you -Mike Bibby had 12 points and took over for Maurice Cheeks. utes left. He followed that with way through it," he said. the coaching staff, the players, 10 assists while leading an effi­Portland has lost 17 of 20 over­another 3, and later whipped a Playing without Ray Allen, your own wife and family. It just cient offense for the Kings, who all. crosscourt pass to Mike James who sprained his right ankle shows that there's a longevity had 28 total assists and four "If you don't compete, if you for an assist on his 3 to put Sunday night against the Lakers there, and it's worthwhile to get turnovers, tying the lowest total don't fight, you're not going to Houston up 80-72 with 40.5 sec­in Los Angeles, the Northwest one of these." in the NBA this season. have no kind of chance," Abdur­onds to go. Division-leading Sonics won Peja Stojakovic scored 23 It was an appropriate per­Rahim said. "So we've got to, 
But the Rockets nearly fum­their third game in a row to points and Cuttino Mobley formance for a milestone win keep competing and fighting bled away the win with a couple improve their record to 46-20. added 19 for the Kings, who for the offense-loving coach. and pulling for each other." of silly mistakes in the waning Lewis needed some scoring sent the freefalling Blazers to Only Larry Brown (975), Jerry Sacramento is clinging to filth seconds of the game. help and Ridnour, Seattle's their sixth straight loss while Sloan (938) and George Karl place in the Western Conference 
James missed four straight starting point guard, shot 6-for-improving to 8-7 since trading (727) have more victories standings despite its usual late­free throws and Miami's Damon 11 and had six assists. Chris Webber during an adjust­among the league's active season rash of injury problems Jones made a 3 and completed . "There's some guys down and ment period that could be a coaches. -which now might include a four-point play, cutting we've just got to find ways to threat to a coach's livelihood in "That's a good accomplish­Darius Songaila, who didn't Houston's lead to 80-79 with win," said Ridnour, who aver­another city. ment, and I'm happy for him," return after hurting his back in 
14.3 seconds left. aged 19.7 points for Oregon·in After seeing nine NBA coach­Bibby said. "We have a lot more the second quarter. 
Wesley saved the victory by 2002-2003 before leaving for ing changes this season -four to go~ We're going to try to add Sacramento never trailed making a couple of free throws, the NBA after his junior season. in March alone -Adelman is to that list." after the opening minute despite and McGrady made one to finish His previous career scoring high well aware that many other Shareef Abdur-Rahim scored an impressive game for off a thrilling upset of the was 19. clubs show none of the Kings' 27 points, and Joel Przybilla had Przybilla, who dominated the league's top team Sonics coach Nate McMillan patience. 13 points, 21 rebounds and a paint and fell just short of his 
"I think if we're not disturbed gave Ridnour the starting job in "I've never seen .a situation career-high eight blocked shots career high of 22 rebounds. by the last minute, then we're his second season because of where so many teams are fight­for the Trail Blazers, who lost "I had my breakout game in not looking at it correctly," said Ridnour's quickness. ing for the playoffs, and the focus for long stretches of their my first game (in Sacramento), Houston coach Jeff Van Gundy, "The one thing that I wanted solution with 14 games to go is eighth straight road defeat. but it's kind of a confidence­who rarely sees the bright side at the beginning of the season to fire the coach," Adelman Damon Stoudamire had 25 booster," Przybilla said. :·But if even in big wins. "Stupid will was ball pressure and a fast said. "I feel very fortunate to be points and a season-high 11 we got the victory, I could care always come back to haunt you. tempo," he said. "I thought Luke in the situation I'm in." rebounds, but Portland made 21 less about the numbers. I just Tonight it didn't, but it will." could bring that to the floor." Perhaps that's because he's turnovers and got no steals in want to get that win. We've 
O'Neal led Miami with 23 The Sonics are 3-0 since los­able to coax efforts like this one its 1Oth loss in 11 games since been struggling, and we've got a points and 16 rebounds, getting ing top reserve Vladimir out of his much-changed~roster. interim coach Kevin Pritchard lot of work ahead of us." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next~day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per .character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content withour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Great 6-7 bdrm home 2·3 bdrm houses avail. now and 05-Two story house 3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. available 6/1/05. 06. Close to NO. completely remodeled 2003. 417 Napoleon (off NO Ave.) WANTED FoR RENT Also very nice 3-bdrm Call 276-2333. Ready for 2005-06 school year. 2 min. from ND. $1100/mo. 
available NOW. Omni Properties Off street parking includes motion 2 roommates/1 family. Catholic family offering full time DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site park-sensor light for security. Call 299-9428. summer childcare opportunity; LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 ing. NO Internet Canopy access. KNOLLWOOD HOME FOR RENT, Four individually locked bedrooms, 4 children ages 6 to 12; SCHOOL YEAR Call Joe Crimmins 4BD,2.5 BATH,$1650. 858~722-six blocks from Notre Dame, think quick and nasty Scottsdale Mall area; ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL 574-229-3659 4469. bus stop in front of house, 
7:30 am to 4:30 pm; MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR surrounded by other student hous-We'll miss you at medschool, Slim wages negotiable; non smoker; CAMPUS. 2-5·7·8 BEDROOM Clean homes close to NO. 2-8 CORBY ST. HOUSE 4 RENT. ing, Laundromat next door Rob own transportation needed. HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBOR-bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask MAY-JULY. (drycleaning also),basement avail· Call Maureen 360-1738. HOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, about FREE student rent program. CALL 284-5223. able for storage of bicycles, exejesis ... i know i want to! 
WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTE-Blue & Gold Homes (574)250·7653. luggage, trunks, etc., NANCE STAFF ON CALL. 2,4 & 5 B-Rooms, close to campus, new furnace and central air, Forrest Gump was about some guyFoR SALE ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING call 234·9923, ask for Rod. new kitchen including new stove who learned how to run fast, helped 
2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7-DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 and refrigerator, large living room people who didn't have legs ...and · OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 8-10 BEDROOMS. S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL Close to NO Excellent area. 192~ for TV or entertaining, had make-out sessions with some· rm, 2 bath. For delails HOUSES GOING QUICK. 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM Cleveland,6·7bdrm; 202 E. Cripe free trash removal. one named 'Jenny' fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261~0900. 4bdrm; 222 E. Willow 3bdrm. Call 289-4071. 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE 6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK 2773097 congratulations on your win gina! 96 BMW 328i, white w/gray leather, WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER HOUSE FOR RENT: 05·06 year. 3-way to be! we're so proud of you! : ) automatic, sun roof, heated seats, OR CONTACT: KRAMER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAC· Room for rent. Very nice apt.com· 5 bdrms. Close to NO. Indoor 136k, great carl Under blue book at 574-234-2436 ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876-plex 10 min. from Basketball Court. 272-3126 or 273-a dream is a wish your heart makes $6300. 607-6680. OR 574-315-5032. 3537. campus.$350/mo.(517)97 4-6225. 9473. when you're fast asleep ... 
-~----------­
Wednesday, March 23, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S NATIONAL INVITATION TOURNAMENT 
South Carolina tram.ples UNLV, advances to quarterfinals 
made a run, I think we made
Powell, Wallace lead 
dutch baskets." 
Gamecocks, combine UNLV (17-14) shot just 2-for­11 from behind the are in thefor 28 points in win opening period, but shot 39.1 
perennt for the game. 
The key run was highlighted
Associated Press 
by Kelley's steal ofT an 
inbounds pass. whieh led to an 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Playing easy baskot for South Carolina. somn of its lwst baskntball of Tho (;;unoeocks led by as many tlw snason, South Carolina is as 1(, points in the first half and orw victory away from rnar.hing worn up :n-24 at halftinw. tlw NIT S(llllifinals for tlw sne­Kelley finished with a earner­ond tinw in four ynars. high nino assists and four 
<:a r I o s I'own II s (~ o r n d I 5 points. points and Brandon Wallaen Hornet Beck led UNLV with 21 matrhnd his r.arnnr-bnst with points. I:~ points to lnad South "They played great defense. Carolina to a 77-66 victory ovnr They'rp real long and athletic, UNI.V in tlw snr.ond round of something we're not usnd to tlw NIT on Tw~sday night. seeing," said Beck, whose team 
Tlw (;amPr.oeks (17-131 finishnd with 18 turnovnrs. "We roarlwd Madiso-n Square didn't do a good job of taking <;ardon and tho NIT l"inals in earn or the ball and making 2002. but lost to Mnmphis. plays and bning patinnl." 
"ThP NIT is morn of a fun South Carolina seornd the 
tournamPnt than it is a prns­f1rst rour points of thn Sl~eond 
s u r n to u rna nH' n t, " South half, but two 3-pointnrs by 
Carolina r.oarh Davn Odom Odartny Blankson and Beck 
said. "l.nt's faro it, it's a littln trimmed the lnad slightly. UNLV 
morP rPiaxnd right now." got within I 0 points on Michael 
South Carolina wont on a 12-Umeh 's :~-pointer with I0:08 to 
2 run in thn middln of thn first go. 
half to pull away. and thn But Tarenen Kinsey eoun­
HPhnls nPvnr n·c~ovnred. ten~d with a 3 on thn 
UNI.V cut thn load to night (iamecoeks' next. possnssion points with :un remaining, but and Kelley made a layup to put Wallacn hit a frnn throw and South Carolina ahead h0-47 l'owPII dn1w an ofTc•nsive foul with 7:44 remaining. on thP Bnlwls' nPxt possession. "We're one of those toams 
Tn~ KP llny 's dish to Horky you know you ean nover count Trkn undnr tlw basknt put thn us out," Beck said. Canwroeks ahead 75-(,:t Earlic~r this year the Hebels 
South Carolina will host eame back from a 10-point <;norgntown in tho ·quarterl"i­deficit with less than 30 sec­nals on Thursday. onds to go to force overtime 
"Wn just don't want to stop with San Diego State and went playing right now," said on to win. Wallaen, who had arguably his This one didn't end with best game of the season. He those dramatics, however. had night 1Joints in just seven Kelley's no-look pass to Trice minutes in the first hall'. gave the Gamecocks their 
But every time it looked as if biggest lead at 41-24 about two 10 games, losing only to Utah against the Titans' undersized to Connectieut in 1982, but thP. South Carolina was going to put minutes into the second half. and New Mexico, which both l'rontcourt, making 8 of 11 Hoyas usually host only one or 
the game away, the Rebnls hit a In the first half, UNLV went made the NCAA tournament. shots in 23 minutes before foul­two games a year at the gym ­timely 3-pointer. The 4:22 without a basket, and lin­Rebels coach Lon Kruger said ing out with 4:57 to play. and usually early in the season Gamecocks were slowed by ished the opening period with he was proud of the way his Brandon Bowman made 8 of 1 0 against heavy underdog oppo­
56.3 pnrennt shooting from the 11 turnovers. Blankson, who is team finished the year. shots and scored 21 points !'or nents. 
fn~e-throw line, but they wnre averaging 17.7 points, scored "The guys hung in there," the Hoyas (19-12), who shot 55 Bobby Brown scored 16 abln to grab some offensive just five and finished with 10. Kruger said. percent. points, and Jamaal Brown had rnbounds ofT the many misses. This is the second time in Georgetown 7 4 Preparations for a circus 14 points and 11 rnbounds to South Carolina finished with 14 three years that UNLV and CS Fullerton 57 made unavailable the lloyas' lead Cal State Fullerton (21­
Freshman Jeff Green domi­
off(~nsive boards and outre­South Carolina have met in the usual home, the cavernous MCI 111, which dressed only eight
natnd the paint with 18 points
houndnd UNLV 42-33. second round of the NIT. In Center, so Georgetown hosted players and listed 11vn playnrs
and six blocks, and Georgetown
Tho Ganweocks shot 38.5 2002, the Hebels also advanced the game on eampus in its out for the season with injuries.
took advantage of an unusual 
percent from the finld in the after a l"irst-round win over small McDonough Gymnasium. Halphy Holmes, the Big West's
home court advantage to beat 
l"irst half and used tenacious Arizona State, but then !'ell to short-handed Cal State A standing-room only crowd of leading scorer and rebounder, dPI"(lllSn to forcn eight steals the Gamneoeks in Columbia 75-Fullerton Tuesday night and 2,604 packed the gym, and bm:ame the most rneent easual­and limit tlw Hebnls to 33.3 65. advance to the quarterfinals of their chants and roars tested ty when he injun~d his knee in JWrrnnt shooting. South Carolina holds a 5-1 the NIT. the limits of deeibel tolerance Friday's win at San Francisco. 
"I was V(~ry plnasnd with the record over the Hnbels and is Green scored eight or in a way never heard at MCI. The Titans finished with thnir nnnrgy wn r.amn out with," unbnatP.n at home at 4-0. Georgetown's first 13 points Georgetown hasn't lost at first winning season in 12 years Odom said. "Anytimn thny UNI.V had won ~light of its last and essentially had his way McDonough since a (,3-52 loss and had to play all three or 

AS 



Armed Services Blood Progral'l"' 
Sponsored bv the ROTC Tri-Militarv Command 
Date(s): 23-24 March 2005 Location: Pasquerilla Center Times: 1400-1900 23 March 2005 
0800-1400 24 March 2005 
ALL BLOOD COLLECTED VVILL GO TO SUPPORT OUR MILITARY BLOOD CENTERS VVORLDVVIDE-PLEASE COME OUT AND GIVE OUR SOLDIERS, SAILORS, AIRMEN AND MARINES THE MOST PRECIOUS GIFT THAT YOU CAN GIVE THEM THIS YEAR_ THEY REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT_ 
their NIT games on tho road, visiting seven airports ovnr eight days. The game was on ESPN. making it Cal State Fullerton's first. nationally tele­vised game in 1!i years. 
Tho visitors kPpt the ganw close for about I 0 minutes. Grnen loft his dPfnndnr llatfoot­nd with a lwsitalion move to put Georgetown ahead 13-12, and tho Jloyas took t.hn load !'or good with a 12-0 nm that madn the score 27-18. Bowman's stumbling basnlilw drive turned into a three-point. play to get the lead to doubln digits, and Jonathan Wallace's 3-pointnr at the buzzer gave tho lloyas a 41-30 halftinw lead. 
Green pieknd up his fourth foul with 12 1/2 minutes to play, but Georgetown was lead­ing by 18 at the time. 
The Titans managed a 7-0 run without Green in the game to cut the lead to 11, but a three from tho lloyas' Ashanti Cook stopped the momentum. 
Wednesday, March 23, 2005 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN's NCAA TouRNAMENT 

All three Triangle schools in Svveet 16 for first titne since 1989 
Wolfpack joins Blue Devils, Tar Heels on tournament trail 
Associated Press 
HALEIG!f, N.C. -Beaching th~ round of 16 is nothing new for Duke and North Carolina, two programs that have a total of six national championships between them. North Carolina State? That's a different story. 
Hobbled by various injuries during the regular season, the Wolfpack stumbled to a seventh­place finish in the Atlantic Coast Conference and Carolina coach Hoy Williams said Tuesday. ''I'm very proud of the fact I'm involved in a league that's been that successful, yet we all know we're one game away from none of us being in the next round. There is a lot of pride here, there's no question." 

Considering the strength of the ACC this season, perhaps it's only fitting that it's so well rep­resented in the NCAA tourna­ment. The Tar Heels finished first in the regular season, fol­lowed by Wake Forest and Duke, and those three teams each were solid contenders to make a run to a national title. 
The Demon Deacons lost in 
double overtime to 
surprising West 
Virginia in the sec­
"I think it's great. 
needed a pair of ond round, but 
victories in the I think it's just N.C. State made conference tour­beautiful for the up for that upset nament just to with one of its
recruiting."
secure an at-large own, beating sec­bid. The selection ond-seeded committee did Rashad McCants Connecticut in the them no favors, North Carolina guard final seconds on a 
either, giving them a No. 10 seed in the Syracuse Regional. 
N.C. State survived two close games in Worcester, Mass., to reach the regional semifinals for the first time since 1989. That's also the last time the three teams from the Triangle region of the state made it that far ­until now. 
The Blue Devils are there for the eighth straight year and the Tar Heels snapped a five-year drought with two easy victories in Charlotte, N.C. Three schools, separated by about 30 miles, all two games away from a trip to the Final Four. 
"It's hard to talk briefly about that bncause everybody around here _is so proud of it," North 

three-point play 
by Julius Hodge. If the Wolfpack can win one more game, they would play North Carolina in the regional final. 
Quite a change from early February, after a three-game losing streak dropped N.C. State to 3-7 in the ACC. 
"In the middle of the season, not everything was perfect," Hodge said. "Now, the bandwag­on is crazy. Everybody is on the bandwagon." 
Duke and North Carolina kept tabs on each other in Charlotte, playing in the same arena on the opening weekend for the first time since 1979, and they also closely followed the Wolfpack. After the Blue Devils beat Mississippi State in the sec-
AP 
ond round of the Austin Regional, coach Mike Krzyzewski took time publidy to congratulate N.C. State coach llerb Sfmdek. 
''I'm really excited, of course, for us," Coach K said. "I talked to Roy and said it would be great for both of our teams to make it. But the guy I'm really happy for is Herb. We should all just say, 'Thank you,' for the great college basketball we have in this region." 
Sendek, who faced rumblings of discontent on Internet mes­sage boards and sports talk radio during the regular season, denied feeling vindicated by the success of this past weekend. lie has N.C. State in the tournament for the fourth straight year, the longest run since the late 1980s. 
''I'm busy coaching our team," Sendek said. "''ve been grateful all along for the people who have given us their unwavering support." 
With all three teams playing Friday, TV stations around the state were scrambling this week to make sure each game was covered. The Wolfpack and the Blue Devils start their games 17 minutes apart, so CBS affiliates were forced to look for other options. 
In Charlotte, WBTV will air Duke against Michigan State, with the N.C. State-Wisconsin game will be carried by UPN afliliate WJZY, which has a news partnership with. WBTV. The Raleigh CBS affiliate, WHAL, is located across the street from the N.C. State campus, and it will show the Wolfpack's game. 
"I think it's great," North Carolina guard Rashad McCants said. "It's great for the state and the programs, I think it's just beautiful for the recruiting." 



MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND 514 W. McKinley 117 North Main 4401 W. Western Ave. Corner McKinley & Grope 1 blk. south of Colfax Inside Martins 574.252.5820 574.288.9450 574.287.9651 
4615 Miami Rood

r.US.Cellular. 
Miami & Ireland 

AUTHORIZED AGENT 
574.299.2860 

•Aiilllm~ offw val:t1 on t\'VW{f'Jn:onsunrJr ~.;u:\~£1~ agreements of $49.% or highHr. Oltf!f indudt.~ iiwt !ine m$4il 95 ·v-.Jith f~l% ocr.e;,.-s dist:l.VJfll plu:; $'10 ShaHlfJ!k fiftc xr:e-~~ l.iisr.trunt v:.~!iri !or the first thrt.~ months ofaf\'yTJ·'/f'lti co!Tlnitrr1f:nt. AillimL? lf.ld Sham fi.ilk ohrw:e offers reqmre ana".t ht¢.J·vear r:onWtm..'f WP/a":U uyet.>mmmt limit Um..>u Share To!K hne.s !X-II P!immy line. Acte§ fee ;YJf S~.are TiJik hoe mS10!m.1. f'rimmy lh~: must 00 una IJ.ire plafl or $3':195 wlti bighm Pwtnt'ltlmli!l phrnm subject to dla!VJe Ctl3tomet is msponsiiJ!c fur~!! ~~l~S tax.:..~. Nigt1t iliKl WookmJ Mirute5 are vJ!itl M·F 9Jln to 5.59 urn an~ a!! day SalUri.lily mxl Sunday. N~gtrt mrl waljrend minutE..'S am avlldarne in lf1..:al calEug wea only. Cu:::t!Jfi'IU15 pkia!lJ and roccr.:ul'J caHs must 00 U.S. CilllulaJ L'IJSIOHiCIS end Oil the ~..1obiie·tt>r.t1d.lile ieJU.ue. f...iillliie·tt}MOOile mmutes JW,y to calls plan.>J ill 0! i:..>ceived trol"JI annttff U.S. LM!lular &ftMibE..'f 's rflone. FoJ yo,Jr mli ill qooli~; frt ~...\.J!.iiu·tvMotile m:rtllf:S, you must pla;e or roce!\-e tile rnli from.-lltrnn \Wf MJWie·U}Mu!Jile (.<JII;ng !vee. i>'ld ttm "'""'""'i;vJk;a!()! 011 ~~u: ri'<J~e "'''"oo aH Caii• IQ:iw;~ O!Jt>idc til!! MGI~Ie·il}Mooiic tailing"'"" will or~ WW"ll yuur !t'\jiJim p;m rri!fllrt?.~. Ma'( nut oo ;;•m!lable witi; w1ilin off~1s. Th;s foarun~ 01}3' not inctlille wlls wVoil:e Se;viws 01 411. Roaming dmrgt~. ires. SU<dla!rjf)s ;~ld lilJ.GS may upp~. indtr.fing ar!lOOta: m~ Ottler 81J111lat<!'Y f13-3 d;mge ol $.%. ilcti~atJon fee S3H. Ali wvire il'Jrmmmnts sub~'"t to an ea!1y tt>rm:r.atm fee. Gtl)c! restnctitxlS mav dppty. See Sf(l(C for datai!s.limiterl time offer. ~rnffi U.S. Cf!l!~lar CorJXXmion 

• Wednesday, March 23, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
CLUB SPORTS 


Irish rowers skim past Wolverines, Spartans 
Ultimate stays home, women's wat·er polo travels to Erie for weekend meet 
Special 10 The Observer 
Tlw Notre Damn men's rowing rluh faced snowy weather and fnwzing temperatures at the annual l.ubb1~r's Cup Hngatta in (;rand Hapids, Mich. l.his wnek­ond. l>nspite thn eold weather, tlw Irish kkknd ofT their spring snason with a successful show­ing against tough competition from tlw Michigan, Miehigan Statn and Western Ontario. 
In thn nwn's night races both tlw varsity and junior varsity boats did well in the morning prnlirninary rounds to put them in tlw pntito final in the after­noon. Tho junior varsity boat had a strong race in the final and improved its time from tho morning from a (,:55 to a 6:50 in the :woo mntnr racn. The varsity boat was indwd out in a rwl'k-in-neck raco against Wostorn Ontario to take second in the pntitn final with a time of 
6:23. Wnstern Ontario won the pntitn with a time of (,:20, and Mkhigan 's varsity A boat won ovnrall with a time of(,; 11. 
Thn nwn 's noviee toam also had a strong showing in their first racn of tho spring season. In the novice final the Irish rowed a groat race, coming in tnnths of a second behind Michigan's C boat and improv­ing almost twenty seconds on thnir morning preliminary row to post at 7:07. Michigan's novice A boat won the event with a time of 6:40. 
Tlw Irish look forward to building on their successes this weekend when they partieipate in tho San Dingo Crew Classic on April 2 and 3. 
Men s Volleyball 
The Notre Dame men's volley­hall team entered its Blue team in a nine team tournament at John Carroll this weekend in Cleveland, Ohio. Led by veteran sottnr Brad Weldon and anchored by tiH~ passing of defensive specialist Hyan Dax, tho team went undefeated in pool play. The Irish prevailed 25-20, 25-20 against Juniata, who could never recover from a I 0 point run fueled by the jump serving of Mike Toomey. Six of the I 0 points worn aces. Then tlw Irish faced ofl' against host .John Carroll, who caught the Irish ofT guard in the first game 25-22. But Hyan (;oes, who usually plays for tlw Irish Cold team as a middle blocker was continuing his conversion to outside hitter. Weldon kept set­ting Cons in the second game to tie the match at 1-1. In the doeisivo third gamo, Goes was again too much for .John Carroll to handle as the Irish took the match 22-25, 25-23, 15-8. The third game in pool play was· against Baldwin Wallace. 
The Irish again came out flat and dropped the first game, but middle blockers James Foresman and Tim Goldsmith stepped up in the second and third games and led the Irish past Baldwin Wallace, 17-25, 30-28, 15-12. 
Hob Dombrowski also sparked the team by adding an addition­al weapon at opposite hitter. 
In tournament play, tho Irish again faced John Carroll, falling in the rematch. 25-21, 25-20. 
Women's Water Polo 
Last weekend the women's water polo team traveled to Penn State-Erie to compete in a varsity tournament. The squad held their own against tough eompetition, finishing with a 4-1 record. 
The lirst game was a rematch of last year's final game against Ottawa. This year the Irish pre­vailed with a 17-10 victory. On Saturday, the Irish opened with a 10-5 victory over Maryland, the nation's 1Oth ranked varsity team. The Irish swept through the rest of the day's competi­tion, defeating Utica 14-1, and Irma, 6-2. The Irish dropped a close 7-6 game to Villanova's varsity squad on Sunday, to complete the tournament action. Stellar goaltending by Kaitlin Shorrock and Hache! Seghal highlighted the weekend play. 
The team is currently 15-5 and will next compete at Miami (Ohio) next month. 
Notre Dame completed its annual swing through California over spring break, more than holding their own against some of the nation's top teams on the west eoast. On Sunday, the Irish opened the trip with an 8-4 vic­tory over the USC dub team, 8­
4. This marked the first win in history for the Irish over the Trojans. 
Thn next day, the Irish trav­nled to Pnpperdine and were again victorious, 11-9. 
Wednnsday found the Irish 
challenging two time defending national club champion Cal Poly. The Irish came up short, 8-4, but stayed close throughout the contest. The Irish Wflre anxious to test their skills against varsity competition and opened some eyes the next day at the Cal State Bernadino tour­namnnt. 
A solid 13-11 victory in the opening round over Div. Ill Claremont proved to be no fluke as the Irish followed up with a 9-8 win over Div. Ill Laverne. On Sunday, the club played evenly with host San Bernadino, a Div. II varsity, before falling 10-7, and the Irish dropped their final match of the week 7­6 to Div. Ill Chapman. 
The Irish sported a 4-3 record against the field including the defending dub national champi­on and two other national club powers, three top ten ranked Div. Ill varsity teams, and a powerhouse Div. II varsity. 

Ultimate 
This weekend, the Ultimate Club hosted "Whitesmoke," the Notre Dame Invitational, com­peting against teams from the Great Lakes region. 
lndemnnt weather moved the venue from Hiehle Field to Boehm Park, though the change hardly afl'ected either the men's or women's team success. The men placed third in a field of ten, while the women won their eight team bracket to take home the tournament title. An A and B team competed for both the men and women, as did an alumni reunion team in each division. 
During pool play on Saturday, the men's A team got off to a slow start in their first game against Michigan, but made a late surge to take the game, 11­9. 
Having settled down and adjusted to the windy and rainy conditions, the Irish won their next two games against Western Michigan and Valparaiso in dominating fashion, with scores of 13-8 and 13-1, respectively. This set up the most competitive game of the weekend, a two hour struggle between the 3-0 A team, and the likewise unde­feated alumni team. 
The men stormed out to a 7-5 hall'time advantage against their former mentors before the alums regrouped and eventually knotted the contest at 14-14. Then on double game point in a game to 15, the undergrads put forth a spirited effort, but a tipped disc found its way into an alum's hands in his end zone to secure the dramatic win. 
On Sunday, the A team won its quarterfinal match up against the South Bend Club Team, B­8, but fell in the semifinals to Wheaton, 13-7, finishing the weekend with a 4·2 record. 
The alumni ena-cted revenge for their undergrads, hownver, by defeating Wheaton, 13-10 in the final and taking the men's tournament championship. Andrew Hochstedler, Andrew Sheehan, Vasili Karas, Erie Morin and Chris O'Neill paced both the oll'ense and defense all weekend, while Steve Kurtz and Nick Chambers provided the team's greatest energy lift as two key reserves. 
The men's B team compiled a 2-4 record, posting convincing victories over Illinois and Valparaiso, 11-7 and 13-7, respectively. They also put forth a strong eiTort against the alum­ni team in their quarterfinal match up, dropping the contest to their elders, 12-7, after impressively holding an early game lead. 
Playing with poise and making most of their team's throws were Tristan Butterfield and Andrew Hartnett, while cutters Jesse McGannon, Dave Farley, Brad Stuart and Ken Walsh ran well all weekend long. 
The Notre Dame lnvitation<J,l was an inspirational weekend for the women's squad which, for the first time in the tourna­ment's history, claimed 1st place. 
With 24 players the team was able to enter two teams. A 9-5 win for Team 1 against the Notre Dame alumni team start­ed off the weekend with great momentum. A disheartening 11­9 loss to long time rival Michigan State followed, but confidence was regained with a 13-2 victory over Michigan. Notre Dame's second team, led by Amanda Schramm, Hashelle Simpson and .Elizabeth Pfister played well in losses to Ohio Northern, 9-2, and Oberlin, 13­2, with Kirsten Palm outrunning opponents in tho long feild. 
The scores were not represen­tative of the team's play, as sev­
and Shields Duss provided strong depth ofT tho bench. The Irish will next compete in Sectionals on April 1(,, 
The Ultimate Club competed during spring break in Savannah, GA at the week long High Tide Tournament. The Women compiled a 3-4 record, finishing sixth out of 12 teams, while the men finished h-2 to take third place out of 28 teams. 
For the Men, pool play began Tuesday in wind gusts of ovnr 20mph, pladng a high dmnand on skilled throws to eope with the conditions. 
The team was up to the chal­lenge, scoring enough difficult upwind points to defeat Connecticut 10-4, Michigan State B 9-8, and Lehigh S-7 en route to a p1~rfoct 3-0 day. 
Day two had the men playing in a "power pool" against thrn1~ other undefeated tlmms from the field. In loss sevnre condi­tions, the Irish opened with a eome-from-b1~hind 13-10 victo­ry over Hiehmond, and followed up with a dominating pnrform­ance against UNC Gnwnsboro, 13-5, beforn succumbing to Michigan State A, 13-7. 
Thursday capped play with a singll~-nli min a tion tournament. The men started the day by defeating longtime rival Wesleyan in tho quartnrflnals, 15-(,, advancing the Irish to tho semilinals. 
Once there, a poor start and somo bad luck allowed Edinboro to jump out to a 14-8 lead, one point short of vie tory. 
A rally by the Irish dosed the gap to 14-13, but Notre Dame dropped the final point and bowed out of the tournament in third place. 
All week long, the men were propelled on ofTense by the eon­sistent play of handlers Andrew Hochstedler, Hyan Butler, and Hiehie Bartholomnw and cuttors Andrew Sheehan, Vasili Karas, Eric Morin, Kyle Engoian and Tim Peterson. 
Defensively, Tommy Hanculak gave a standout porformance to pace a unit that also saw solid contributions from Stove Kurtz, Andy Crutchfield and Mike Flo rack. 
The women opened play on Tuesday in a stilT wind. The Irish dropped two of their first thrne gamns, but tlw win was a noteworthy 10-7 triumph over 


On ·CAmpus Qt:A,.uAt1on l1/Jeeken,C ..,Spee1AI 
~A!J 12-16, 100;' 
Nee~ a place fo~ !jOur faw..Ll!j to sta!j, T~!j tV!e sac~e~ Heart 'Pa~LsV! Ctll\.ter [BuLL~LtA-g 31. o~ 1.1.~5 Oil\. !jDUY caw..pus w..aps.] 
we set C! -t3o.oo pe~ persoll\. ~oll\..li!tl.oll\. for tV!e week?.ell\.~. 
"COME? 5ARLY [TVlu~s~atj] -.STAY LAIT [MOII\.~atj]"'-SC!W..t ~011\.atf.oll\.. 
For YtservaHoii\.S please call: 'PauL 5~~11 at .5_1-4-~31.-7-51.::2. or Martj FDII\.ferk?.o at S)H--~31.:!J43~ 
eral new players stepped up as future leaders on the lield. 
Lucy Summerville, Tara Devine and Elizabeth Lee proved themselves to be invalu­able handlers. 
Anne Kroeger, Mary Boyer, Loreta Brown and Colleen Stehlin gained nxporieneo. 
Sunday's games were truly momentous for this team. 
In the quarters, ND's Team I defeated ND's Team 2, 10-(,, advancing to the semilinals. Tlw Irish defeated Oberlin, 13-2, setting up a rematch with Michigan State for the champi­onship. 
The Irish · emerged tri­umphant, 12-10, as Christina lledges, Hache! Meeks, Elizabeth Shiel and Jennifer Pruchnik shredded the Spartans' vaunted zone defense. Nancy Powaga and Meredith Sheperd came up with grabs in the endzonn, while Christina Dube and Stnphanie Snyder dominated midfield play. Freshmen Shannon Morisson defending champion and top snnded Boston University. 
The Terriors would pr1wail and champions this year as well. 
Highlights of the f'irst day included an upwind1~r scorn<! by Christine l>ube on a pass from Lizzy Shiel and a Callahan point seornd by .Jon l'ruehnik on a block by Liley Surnrnervilh~. 
Playing bettnr as t.lw weatlwr improved, the Irish swept all tlm~e opporwnts tlw next day. 
Kaile Hoss led tlw attack and Shannon Morrison tlw defense as th1~ Irish canw from behind to dofnat UNC (;ronnshoro, 11­
10. Thn sneond eontl~st was a shutout of Weslnyan B, and tlw squad dominated Edinboro, 13­2, behind the passing of Amanda Schramm. 
After pool play the Women wnre ranked 8th in thn !\ brack­et. 
For tlw sncond eonsneutivn ynar, thn Irish were nlirninatnd from thn tournanwnt by Michigan State in a 7-h thriller. 

..--------------------------------­







OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROA,t THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, March 23, 2005 


ITA Tennis Rankings Men's Top 25 
rank team 
1 Baylor 
2 Illinois 
3 Virginia 
4' Duke 
5 UCLA 
6 Mississippi 
7 Georgia 
8 Florida 
9 Southern California 
10 Stanford 
11 Oklahoma State 
12 Texas Tech 
13 Pepperdine 
14 Clemson 
15 Mississippi State 
16 louisiana State 
17 TexasA&M 
18 Tulane 
19 Washington 
20 NOTRE DAME 
21 Tennessee 
21 Middle Tennessee State 
23 Texas 
24 Harvard 
25 Wake Forest 

ITA Tennis Rankings Women's Top 25 
rank team 
1 Stanford 
2 Northwestern 
3 Kentucky 
4 Georgia 
5 Southern California 
6 Georgia Tech 
7 Duke 
8 Vanderbilt 
9 Texas 
10 North Carolina 
11 Miami (Fl) 
12 UCLA 
13 Clemson 
14 William and Mary 15 Baylor 16 Washington 17 Florida 18 Harvard 19 Tennessee 20 TCU 21 Tulane 21 Brigham Young 23 Alabama 24 California 25 Oregon 

ITA Tennis Ranklngs Women's Doubles 
rank  team  players  
1  Northwestern  Cristelle Gier  
Audra Cohen  
2  NOTRE DAME  CATRINA THOMPSON  
CHRISTIAN THOMPSON  
3  UCLA  Daniela Bercek  
Riza Zalameda  
4  Miami (FL)  Megan Bradley  
5  North Carolina  Audrey Banada Aniela Mojzis  
Kendall Cline  

aug. 
91.60 80.39 77.50 73.46 62.78 61.18 55.19 48.75 42.40 42.20 40.45 39.60 37.59 37.38 36.36 36.25 33.93 32.99 29.69 29.53 28.46 28.46 28.11 26.79 26.60 
aug. 
84.40 82.16 65.74 65.09 64.12 59.44 58.52 57.46 52.59 52.46 51.09 49.32 49.10 47.59 46.07 45.24 41.35 40.00 37.00 36.85 32.10 29.68 27.61 26.21 25.93 
aug. 
55.41 
50.89 
49.18 
48;51 
44.74 

around the dial 
MLB SPRING TRAINING Cubs at Diamonbacks, 3:05 p.m, ESPN2 White Sox at Brewers, 3:05p.m., Comcast 
NBA 

Bulls at Raptors, 7 p.m., Comcast Pistons at 76ers, 8 p.m, ESPN Mavericks at Warriors, 10:30 p.m, ESPN 
MLB 


A:ssoci~ted Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. ­Coming off knee surgery and caught up in baseball's steroids scandal, Barry Bonds said he may not play at all this season -despite standing on the doorstep of the sport.'s most hallowed record. 
The San Francisco Giants slugger also said he was physically and mentally "done," and blamed the media for at least part of his trouble.s. 
''I'm tired of my kids cry­ing. You wanted me to jump off a bridge, I finally did," Bonds told reporters Tuesday, shortly after returning to training camp. "You finally brought me and my family down. So now go pick a different person." 
Bonds, whose 703 career homers are 11 short of Babe Ruth's total and 52 behind Hank Aaron's record, was back in camp following last week's arthroscopic surgery on his right knee. 
Sitting at a picnic table outside the Giants' club­house with his 15-year-old son, Nikolai, at his side, Bonds said, "My son and I are just going to enjoy our lives. You guys wanted to hurt me bad enough, you finally got me." 
Bonds· said he was tired and disappointed following a winter in which he was accused of steroid use, his grand jury testimony was leaked and he had two knee operations. 
Leaning his head on a crutch and repeatedly say­ing he was tired, Bonds spoke after a 1 1/2-hour session with Giants trainer Stan Conte. 
"Right now I'm just going to try to rehab myself to get back to, I don't know, hopefully next season, hopefully the middle of the season," Bonds said. "I don't know. Hight now I'm just going to take things slow. 

IN BRIEF NCAA president knocks 
new Title IX standard 
INDIANAPOLIS -NCAA president Myles Brand criticized the Education Department's new Internet-based survey schools can use to show they are accommodating the athletic interests and abilities of women on campus. 
Brand said Tuesday the survey will not adequately reflect the interest in women's sports and ·could harm the growth of women athletes. 
Brand also said the new Title IX standard should have been debated publicly. Title IX prohibits discrimi­nation based on sex at any school that receives federal money. 
"The e-mail survey clarification will not provide an adequate indicator of interest among young women to par­ticipate in college sports," Brand said in a written statement. "Nor does it encourage young women to partici­pate, a failure that will likely stymie the growth of women's athletics and could reverse the progress made over 
the last three decades." Indiana AD gives ultimatum INDIANAPOLIS -The stakes just got a whole lot higher for Indiana's Mike Davis. On Tuesday, athletic director Rick Greenspan silenced the critics for now by announcing that Davis would return for his sixth season as the Hoosiers' coach. He also sent a blunt warning: Win now. "I think that was implicit in the four corners of this release," said Fred Eichhorn, president of Indiana's board of trustees. "I think there is an emphasis on winning." At Indiana, winning is not a choice, it's a tradition. The Hoosiers have won five national championships, and during the 1970s and 1980s, Final Four appearances became the norm in this basketball-crazed state. Now many wonder whether Davis can live up to the legacy after going 29-29 the last two seasons -dismal by Indiana standards -and missing the NCAA tournament both years. 
''I'm 40 years old, not 20, 30." 
Bonds, who set the sin­gle-season record with 73 home runs in 2001. under­went a similar operation on the same knee on Jan. 31, but had a setback after workouts in camp earlier this month. 
He returned to the Bay Area on March 16 and had surgery last Thursday to repair cartilage. Conte said last Thursday the sec­ond operation put Bonds back at "square one." 
Conte said Bonds went through a "normal rehab six days out of surgery" on Tuesday, and that his knee looked a.s expected. 
Jets net 'Super' stadium news 
KAPALUA, Hawaii -New York moved a step closer to getting the 2010 Super Bowl on Tuesday when an NFL committee approved the Jets' bid to get the game -contingent on the construction of a new stadium on the West Side of Manhattan. 
The approval by the league's Super Bowl advisory committee came a day after the Jets upped their bid for the rights to build on the land to $720 million, surpa~ing the $700 million from an energy company and the $600 million from Cablevision, which owns Madison Square Garden. The Dolan family, which owns Cablevision, has been in a bitter fight to block construction of the stadium. 
The Jets initiated the move to get the 2010 game at this meeting, hop­ing it would help their chances of building the stadium. But whether it will be built is still a major question -the city and state support it, but numerous political groups in New York oppose it. 

Wednesday, March 23, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT 

~ity abuzz as UW-Milvvaukee provvls through NCAAs 
Panthers in Sweet 16, will face offwith Illini in Chicago Thursday 
Associared Press 
MILWAUKEE -Before last wnnknnd. Wiseonsin­Milwaukee was best known for being the sehool where the late Israeli prime minister Golda Mnir went. 
l'or "llappy Days" afieiona­dos. it's where Hichie Cunningham, Potsie Weber and Halph Malph all hit the books wlwn they wnrnn't hanging out at Arnold's Drive-in. 
Now, thn No. 12 Panthers are thn lowest seed remaining in the NCAA tournament, holding 1.1Hl han nor for all the rn id­majors who dream of knocking oiT the big basketball schools like Alabama and Boston College, both of which fell to Bruen Pearl's pressing Panthers, champions of tho Horizon League, last week in Cleveland. 
UWM is a eornmuter sehool of 25,000 that has gone from NAIA Division II to NCAA Division I in a little morn than a dneade. 
When athletic dimetor Bud Haidet was hired in 19S8, he counted 65 fans at his f'irst basketball game and many of them mistakenly handed back the porn-pons he gave them on their way into the arena. 
Now, UWM is taking some of the spotlight off Marquette, just 6 miles away, which went to the Final Four two years ago, and the University of Wisconsin in Madison, where the Badgers, under former Panthers coach Bo Ryan, are also in the Hound of 16. 
There wasn't a lot of buzz on among them Nicole Dzomba of Milwaukee. 
campus  Monday,  however,  
because  spring  break just  
started.  

"It's real exciting, it's very cool," she said as she picked out a yellow T-shirt. "I think everyone's happy but nervous, too." 
Other students raced to the ticket office to put their names in for the 1,250 tickets made available to the school for the Panthers' next game, against top-ranked Illinois on 
Thursday in the 

"We only have one dormitory but I still feel the sup­ "We only have one dormitory but I still  Chicago Hegional. Pearl hoped the biggest crowd of  
port, I've gotten lots of e-mails," guard Ed McCants said.  feel the support, I've gotten lots of e-mails."  reporters to gath­er at one of his practices would ask about the  
About 50 peo­ David vs.  Goliath  
ple, mostly friends and fami­ly, greeted the  Ed McCants UW-Milwaukee guard  story line. He wanted to rave about his stars,  
Panthers  at  McCants and Joah  

Mitchell In tornationat Airport Tucker. lie preferred to talk upon their triumphant return about how no No. 12 seed has Sunday. ever beaten a No. 1 send. 
On Monday, players entering "We're trying to do some­the Klotsche Center to practice thing that's nnver been done. weren't met by a throng of fans We're trying to make history," but by two men seeking auto­he said. graphs on four deflated basket­He oven pitched a story balls, items that might very about Illinois coach and well end up on oBay. Milwaukee native Bruce Weber 
"It's quieter than usual today playing his alma mater, where exeept for you guys," forward he unsuccessfully tried out for Adrian Tigert said of the 50 or the UWM basketball team. so reporters who converged on But what just about everyone the campus. wanted to know was Peart's 
Some students did gather at latest thoughts on the Deon the cam pus bookstore to buy Thomas scandal at Illinois 16 commemorative T-shirts, years ago. 
Pearl was an assistant at Iowa when he secretly taped a conversation with Thomas dur­ing which the player appeared to confirm that Jimmy Collins, then an assistant at Illinois, had offered him $80,000 and an SUV to sign with the Iltini. 
Thomas has always denied the allegations and the school was cleared .of them, but the 16-month investigation found several other infractions and Illinois was barred from post­season play by the NCAA in 1991. 
ESPN's Dick Vitale criticized Pearl for committing. "career suicide." 
To this day, Collins, now the coach at Ittinois-Chieago, refuses to shake Pearl's hand. 
But Pearl said he would do what he did again. 
"Hegrettably, would because of principle and I'm a bit of an idealist," Peart said. "But a lot of people got hurt in that situation and it's unfortu­nate. I just knew what was happening and the folks at the University of Iowa. wanted me to document it." 
Pearl said his only regret is "if it's taking away from UWM and these players." 
This will be the first time Pearl has faced Illinois as a head coach, but he doesn't think that wilt put an end to all the talk about his rote in the seandal. 
"It's never going to go away," he said. 
Weber is aware of the acri­mony many Ittini fans and sup­porters stilt feel toward Pearl. 
"I've heard some things I can't even say in the press con­ference," Iltinois coach Bruce Weber said Monday. "I under­stand it and I'm not downptay­ing it. But at the same time, we need to beat them to advanCI\. That's the most important thing." 
Pearl said being a whistle­blower hasn't affected his abili­ty to recruit in Chicago, howev­er, and "we're stilt winning basketball games. Again, it's 
·just not something new. Can you lind one thing that's been reported nnw about this'?" At that point, Pearl was shown a eopy of Monday's Chicago Tribune in whieh Thomas, who is now 34 and plays pro basketball in Israel. said Peart was evil and called him a snake. "That's not new," Pnart said. "lie had (a similar) reaction 16 years ago, it's not nnw. I read it and I'm not going to rnspond to it, OK'?'.' Peart does know that he'll get plenty of boos from lllini fans and he said he doesn't fault them for that. "I'm a good man and I'm a good father and I'm a good person," Peart said. "But I was involved in something that did them harm. so I undnrstand if they don't feel like Bruce Pearl is their favorite coach in tlw country." 

SAINT MARY"S COLLEGE INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN SEVILLE, SPAIN" A ne-w-Study Abroad option for Notre Dame students Fall 2005 & Spring 2006 Information Meeting Tuesday., March 29., 2005 7:00p.m. Room 202 DeBartolo Hall Notre Dame Course Offerings: Spanish language., civilization and literature, and general education courses. Contact: Professor Isis Quinteros i_HM.inter·(ii'J~~inJ,n:!."!.~:XS .•..~~.dJ,:l  

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 23, 2005 
WOMEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT 

Johnson can't miss, helps Tigers tame 'Cats 
Pokey Chatman said. "They did

Point guard's scoring 
a great job of making Arizona aids top-seeded LS U shoot difficult shots." The Wildcats made a dent in
in pursuit of title the lead after switching to a zone defense and had a quick 8­0 run to cut it to 14 before half­
Associated Press 
time, but that was as close as Arizona would get. 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -LSU's Johnson had six assists in the Temeka Johnson is making the first 6 1/2 minutes of the game. most of her last chan1:e for a The shortest player on the national championship. court at 5-foot-3, Johnson 
The Lady Tigers' senior point scored inside and outside. She guard scored all 14 of her got one of her baskets before points in the first half and had. halftime driving the baseline 10 assists to help LSU rout and past 6-5 Shawntinice Polk Arizona 76-43 on Tuesday night in the paint. in the second round of the "We came out of the blocks NCAA tournament. pretty strong," Johnson said. "If 
LSU (31-2), the tournament's I bring the energy, it will trickle No. 1 overall seed, will face down." 13th-seeded Liberty in the Arizona trailed by 25 at the Chattanooga Regional semifi­break, its largest halftime deficit nals on Saturday. Liberty upset of the season. LSU outscored fifth-seeded DePaul RR-79 on the Wildcats 8-0 to open the Tuesday night in College Park, second half to go ahead by 33. Md. Arizona's set a season low with 
"This is it. No time to leave its 43 points, and the margin anything," Johnson said. matched the biggest loss of the 
Johnson had a perfect shoot­season. Arizona also lost by 33 ing night, going 4-of-4 from the at Ohio State earlier this season. field, ineluding two 3-pointers, Dee-Dee Wheeler led the and 4-of-4 at the foul line. She Wildcats with 13 points, and did not attempt a shot in the Polk had 1 0. Danielle Adefeso second half, and it wasn't need­added 12 rebounds. Arizona ed. had only four assists. 
"That just shows the type of Arizona's band tried to drum player she is," said teammate up support for the nailing­Scimone Augustus, who often Wildcats by playing Tennessee's gets most of the attention as the "Rocky Top," and Lady Vols fans leading scorer. who arrived early for the 
Augustus wasn't bad herself, Tennessee-Purdue game briefly finishing with 18 points on 7 -of-cheered against their 18 shooting before going to the Southeastern Conference foe. bench with about 10 minutes "I guess it dido 't work," left. Scholanda Hoston added 12 Johnson said. victory. ed Texas Tech on Sunday in the Texas A&M's feat in 1994. points. Arizona and the Lady Tigers Summitt is 880-171, while Philadelphia Regional semifi­
The Lady Tigers are trying to played a home-and-away series Smith was 879-254 in 36 sea­nals. The Flames, 0-8 in NCAA cap the most successful regular in the previous two seasons, sons with the Tar Heels. Tye'sha Fluker tied her career tournament play before beating season in school history by with LSU winning both by a "First and foremost, we're high with 18 points and had 10 fourth-seed·ed Penn State on making a second straight run to combined 17 points. going to the Sweet 16," Summitt rebounds for Tennessee, 46-0 in Sunday, will face top-seeded the Final Four. The Lady Tigers Tennessee 75, Purdue 54 said. NCAA tournament games in LSU on Saturday in are in the final 16 for the ninth Pat Summitt stands alone at Obviously, to be in the compa­Knoxville. Shyra Ely added 16 Chattanooga. time. . the top of NCAA basketball. ny with Coach Smith, to think points, and Shanna Zolman had Khara Smith had 27 points for 
The ninth-seeded Wildcats The Tennessee coach broke about all the people that were a 15. fifth-seeded DePaul (26-5). (20-12) were in a big hole early Dean Smith's career victory part of these wins, I never Sharika Webb had 16 points Duke 70, Boston College 65 and never recovered. record Tuesday night, getting thought I'd live this long." and 10 rebounds for ninth-seed­Monique Currie scored 21 
With Arizona unable to match No. 880 in the top-seeded Lady After the game, NCAA officials ed Purdue (17-13). points, and sophomore center LSU's speed and hustle in tran­Vols' win over Purdue in the presented Summitt with the Ohio St. 75, Maryland 65 Alison Bales scored 10 of her 16 s\tion, the Lady Tigers ran out NCAA tournament. game ball and a plaque and the Brandie Hoskins scored 22 points down the stretch to help to an 11-0 lead and had a 20-Summitt tied Smith at 879 school said the court at points, and Ohio State advanced Duke reach the round of 16 for 
point advantage with 7:22 left in with an easy win over Western Thompson-Boling Arena will be to the round of 16 for the first the eighth straight year. the half. Carolina in the first round named "The Summitt." time since 1993. Mistie Williams added 12 
"I thought from the very first Sunday night and passed the Tennessee (28-4), seeking its Jessica Davenport had 15 points for the second-seeded possession on defense we estab­former North Carolina men's seventh national title under points and nine rebounds, Caity Blue Devils (30-4). who will face lished ourselves," LSU coach coach with another convincing Summitt, will face fourth-seed-Matter scored 16 points and sixth-seeded Georgia on 
Stephanie Blanton added 12 for Saturday in Chattanooga. the second-seeded Buckeyes Clare Droesch scored 23 (30-4), who will face Rutgers on points for Boston College (20­Sunday in Philadelphia in the 10). regional semifinals. Connecticut 70, Florida St. 52 
Crystal Langhorne had 22 Ann Strother scored 19 points, points and 16 rebounds for sev­and Jessica Moore had 11 enth-seeded Maryland (22-10). points and 12 rebounds for Rutgers 61, Temple 54 three-time defending national 
Cappie Pondexter scored 25 champion Connecticut. points to help third-seeded UConn (25-7), in the round of Rutgers end sixth-seeded 16 for the 12th straight year, Temple's winning streak at 25 has won its last 20 NCAA games 
,games. since falling to Notre Dame in 
Pondexter made 7 -of-14 shots the 2001 national semifinals. and hit all three of her 3-point The Huskies will play second­attempts. She also had five of seeded Stanford in the Kansas Rutgers' 13 steals. Chelsea City Regional semifinals Sunday. Newton added 11 points for Roneeka Hodges had 28 Rutgers (27 -6). points for the sixth-seeded 
Cynthia Jordan led Temple Seminoles (24-8). (27-6) with 15 points. North Carolina 71, Liberty 88, DePaul 79 George Washington 4 7 
Katie Feenstra had 29 points Ivory Latta scored 17 points, and 13 rebounds, and Liberty and Nikita Bell added 16 points, followed up its first NCAA tour­nine rebounds and six steals for nament victory by shocking top-seeded North Carolina. DePaul. The Tar Heels (29-3), who 
With Liberty's chancellor, the have won 15 straight games Rev. Jerry Falwell, watching in since an overtime loss at Florida a front-row seat, the Flames State in January, will play fifth­(26-6) weathered a 16-0 run in seeded Arizona State on 
AP the second half to become only Saturday in the regional semifi­the second 13th ,seed to advance nals on the Sun Devils' home to the round of 16 _ duplicating court. 


We:dnesday, March 23, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NO SOFTBALL 
Irish set to impress in opener 
Team opens home schedule, taking on Western Michigan 
By THOMAS BARR 
Sports Wrirer 
A.l'tnr 21 away games, the Irish softball tnam ( 13-H) will opnn its homn schndule today against Western Michigan. 
Notrn Damn comes into its honw opennr on a hot streak, winning snven of its last night gamns. Thn Irish wern origi­nally slatnd to play one game against thn Broncos. llowevnr, due to sevnral inclement w~~ at h e r can c e II ati o n s , t h n Irish will play a double-hnad­nr. 
Tlw lik1dy starting pitchers for Notre Damn are Stel'f'any Stnnglein. who is averaging just over ten strikeouts pnr snvnn innings, and llnathnr Booth. who boasts an H-4 rn1~ord and 1.43 EHA.. 
Thn Broncos eomn into Wndnnsday's games with a 5­12 rncord. The likely starters arn Tricia Vandnrslik (2-7) and Kyla Sullivan (3-5). 
Wnstnrn Michigan will face a Notrn Damn squad that has been hitting wnll as of late. 
Irish third basnrnan Liz llartmann was namnd Big East Playnr of thn week after hitting .700 and recording 7 HBis at the Buekeye Invitational last weekend. 
llowevnr, thn Irish are not underestimating the Hroneos. 
"They arn vnry scrappy, dis­ciplined and well-coached," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. 
"To be succnssful, we will nnnd to have great defense, pitchers staying in their game and controlling hitters and gntting hits when we nned it, with runners in scoring posi­tion." 
Thn Irish have f'arnd well traditionally against the Broncos and in horne opnners. Thny lead thn all-time series 14-5. 
The tnarn has an impressive 22-7 record in thnir first game at home since thB program started in 1976. 
The Irish are happy to be horne, but want to maintain their recent play. 
"It feels great to be homn, it's something special," Gumpf said. 
"We have gotten good at playing away since we arB on the road so much, but it means something to play in front of friends, family, and the students who support the team." 
The first game will· begin at 4 p.m. and the l'irst 250 fans there will rBcoive free t-shirts. 
"It's great to finally play at horne," Irish pitcher Kenya Fuemmelnr said. 
"Playing at Ivy Field enables us to show everyone what being part of the Fighting Irish is really about about." 
Contact Thomas Barr at tbarr@nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles anticipating tough 111atches from the young but potent Comets 
Team says it is not underestimating opponent's lineup 
1\y PATRICK MCCABE 
Sporrs Wrircr 
Tho Saint Mary's tennis team plays at homo today against 0 I iv n t at :~ pm . , fa ein g a Comot roster that features freshman and sophomore players. 
Hngardlnss. Bolles Coach Den Stovmtson is wary. 
"Olivet's bonn improving nvnry ynar," Stnvenson said. "Our first concern is to win the matches." 
Co-captains Kristnn Palombo and Miranda Mikulyuk are morn conlidnnt. 
"We expect no one to lose. Tlwy graduated a whole num­bnr of players tlunn years ago 

SUPPLES 
Poker Chips from $4.95;so 

······ ··:r~~~~ H~id~~ T~bl~~---·­__fro_m___,$19:.__:9_.9_7__ Poker Tables from $299.00 
Rentals Available 

Large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 
50510 St. Rd. 933N • South Bend 
574-272-1617 


so t lw y ' r e r e bu i I d i n g, " wanes when facing inexperi­Palombo said. enced and purportedly lesser "Wo'd love to sen a 9-0 win. eom petition. Wn always enjoy playing thorn, "·Our focus drops sometimes, 
but wn're not expneting a problom," Mik­ulyuk said. 
The team in­tends to r.xpand and experiment with its shot rnpnrtoire and style of play dur­ing the contests. 
"This is defi­nitely one of the matchns where wn work on new things, such as 

but we have worry about our game,"This is definitely not theirs," Mikulyuk said.
one of the matches 
However, possi­

where we work on 
ble inclement new things, such as weather may com­serving and pound distrae­tions.
volleying and 
"It's always

coming to the net." hard," Stevenson said. "The fore­cast includes cold
Kristen Palombo 
and possible wet

captain 
conditions. It's 
serving and volleying and coming to the net," Palombo said. "We will play more aggressive." 
"I always try to develop my game, even against better opponents," Mikulyuk said. "But this is also a good time to do so, especially our.doubles' new 1-l'ormation, which we have yet to use during a match." 
Dnspite the youth of both tnams, a quick, crisp and clean pnrformance is expected. 
"We expect to play well and solid," Palombo said. "Everyone has an off-day," Mikulyuk said. "You can't let it gnt to you. But I don't think we'll play sloppy." 
Coach Stnvenson admits that his players' concentration 


easy to lose focus and hard to play in tough con­ditions. We hope for playable conditions because we don't want to travel to Lansing to play them at the season's end. Also, we must adjust from playing in warm Orlando to playing in 40 degree weather in South Bend." 
Other worries vex Coach Stevenson, particularly the health and status of an undis­closed player. 
"We're waiting for the results of an MHI scan on her knee," Stevenson said. "We're in a state of flux. Her injury causes problems for our dou­bles." 
Despite this possible loss, Mikulyuk remains optimistic and upbeat. 
"Spring break del'initely helped our doubles' chem­istry," Mikulyuk said. "But we always look for improvement, notably communication. Increased familiarity with one another will help us communi­cate wordlessly and thereby accelerate our play. Partners can play for years and still improvn their communica­tion." 
Contact Patrick McCabe at pmccabe@nd.edu 
Offense 
continued from page 24 
tho Now England Patriots oll'onsive coordinator. 
"Our philosophy has always been: throw it on tho wall and see what sticks," he said. 
As the leader of a revampnd Irish offense, all eyes are on Brady Quinn, who rnturns for his third y(1ar at the Irish helm. 
"I have a great deal of eonli­denee in tho ollimse and in our ofTnnse picking up whore we left ofT," he said. "I really felt like we wero gaining ground as far as how we were progress­ing through the ommsn and as a unit." 
In the internsts of lnarning a complicated new schnme, tight end Anthony Fasano said tho team has been studying tho playbook and getting to know the coaches in meetings. 
"It's making everyone nxdtnd to get on the field ... I don't think we're nervous at all," he said. "Excited is thn best word." 
Offensive lineman Hyan IIarris agrnnd that thn toam was oagnr to take tho field and start to put tho system into practice. 
"The exeitoment's just unbn­liovablo because we've been 


Pitchers 
continued from page 24 
Irish gave up the load . .Joey Williamson faced six batters and surrendered two runs, onn of' them unearned. Williamson started out shaky, hitting the first two Bearcats, and Cincinnati's lirst run came on a fielder's choice ground ball to Lilley. The Beareats seornd olr shortstop Gn~g Lopez's throw­ing error for the 2-1 lead. 
The~ lead was brief. 
In the bottom half of tlw inning, the wind diod down just enough for right fielder Craig Cooper to pull a home run over the left field fence. Using a two­out rally, tho Irish playnd small­ball the rest of the inning, capi­talizing on four singles and SIW­eral steals to take a command­ing 6-2 lead. 
Wade Korpi, JBss Stewart, David Gruener, Dan Kapala and Tyler Jones all saw aetion on the mound the rest of the way for the Irish. Korpi, who entered with the lead in the looking at tho playbook for so long, and we have new plays and wn have nnw terminology and wn just. can't wait to got out tl111re togntlwr, make the call, and just rnally go out there and play football again," llarris said. 
"And nspodally on ofTnnsn, now we're a veteran group, thnre's rnally no room for excuse and it's about time wn start to play at that levol." 
Bunning back Hyan Grant was thn only starter to leave tho lineup going into spring 2005. llowevnr, freshman Darius Walker is ready to tak1~ on any and all rnsponsibilitins in the backfield. Walker ruslwd into the national spotlight with 115 yards on 31 earrins that indudnd two fourth-quarter touchdowns against thp,n-No. H Michigan. 
Walknr said the tnam has a considerable amount of work to do beforn players can analyzn their development. 
"We've just kind of got to sit back and take this as it eonws," lw said. 
"As we got further along in the playbook and farther along in the of'f'nnsn, we'll know where wn'rn going to go." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.cdu 
lillh, nabbed tho lirst win of his collngn carnnr. 
Besides rotating tho pitdwrs nearly 1wnry inning, coach Paul Mainieri jumhlml the position players and hatting order as well. 
Appearing in just his sevnnth gamn this snason, sophomorn Mike Dury startnd at designat­ed hittnr. lin linishnd 2-5. Nkk Mainieri. Danny Drnssman and Eddin Smith also playnd. 
Non-startPr Cody Hizzo­who had playod in 15 gamns this snason-nnternd tho ganw at centPr finld in tho eighth, and Tony I .angford madn tho start at lnfllinld. 
Lefl-handnd hitting Lillny had a pnrfeet 5-for-5 day at tlw plato to bneomn the first frnsh­man in Notre Damn basnball history to record live hits in the home opener. 
"I was gntting good pitches up there. I just felt good up thnrn; I was rnlaxed," Lilley said. "It just worknd out. The ball fi~ll in the right place li>r me." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

BRAD CARMEANfThe Observer 
Sophomore Mike Dury takes a cut at a pitch In Tuesday's home opener against Cincinnati. The Irish won 10-4. 

t 
~ 
I i page 22 Wednesday, March 23, 2005
The Observer + SPORTS 


Weis 
continued from page 24 
Weis said. "I think right now [that] is one of the biggest goals I'm trying to accomplish, is to get us all to where we want to be." 
Notre Dame went 6-6 in the 2004 season. November 30, head coach Tyrone Willingham was fired after three seasons. 
Controversy· surrounded the !'iring, and the administration hired Weis -a 1978 Notre Dame alumnus -to alter the direction of the program. 
In the spring game, Montana and Zorich will help coach the Blue team in the spring game, while Theismann and Brown will pace the sidelines with the Gold squad. 
Weis said he checked with NCAA compliance officers to make sure the former Irish greats could help coach the spring game and received per­mission. 
"They can be involved and they will be involved," Weis said. 
Weis recognized his own pur­pose Tuesday, announcing his intention to make tradition a part of the present. 
"All I do know is that I don't have all the answers," he said. 
"There's a lot of rich tradi­tion at Notre Dame that I'd like those players to be a part of.... I just know that I feel I'm just a part of Notre Dame. I'm not Notre Dame myself." 
Meanwhile, the coach spoke of looking toward the future and not evaluating his team based on past performances. 
It would not be fair to judge players on the past when the coaching staff and schemes will be new, Weis said. 
The only assistant coach not available to media Tuesday was former University of Mississippi head coach David Cutcliffe. 
The Irish assistant head coach of the offense and quar­terbacks coach underwent triple bypass surgery recently and is currently recovering at his home in Mississippi. 
"I flew down to see him," Weis said. "I was ·at his house on Sunday. He looked surpris­ingly well, He was in good spir­its and was happy somebody from the staff was there shortly after he had gotten home. I told him I don't want to see him any time soon." 
Weis will fill in for Cutcliffe in coaching quarterbacks, mean­ing he will have a more hands­on opportunity with starting quarterback Brady Quinn in the learning curve of a new and complicated offense. 
"Coach Weis is somebody who's been through it all, hav­ing expectations and having success, and at times been through some difficult experi­ences," Quinn said. 
"He's someone l think this program needs and needs to have in the future." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 



Tennis 
continued from page 24 
Lauren Connelly also found little difficulty in topping Purdue's Brooke Beier and Stephanie Wooten in their 8­4 victory. 
However, it was the final pairing of senior captain Sarah Jane Connelly and jun­ior Jen Smith at No. 3 that showed an impressive come­back. 
After falling behind early 2-0 to the Boilermakers' Hala Sufi and Alyssa Rodriguez, Connelly and Smith won the next eight straight points to secure the 8-2 win. 
"We started a little slow, but we played a lot more impressive than we did against Tennessee," Sarah Jane Connelly said. 
"But we just focused on the basic serve and return to get the win." 
Focusing on the key ele­ments of the game is what has helped the team adjust to several lineup changes 

after losing Thompson, their No. 1 dou­bles and No. 3 singles player. 
"It has been tough [changing doubles part­ners] because you never know who you 'II be playing with," Connelly said. 
"After playing with the same person for most 
Christian 

"We started out a In singles, 
little slow, but we playing at the No. 1 position
played a lot more 
for the Irish was

impressive than we 
No. 44 ranked did against Catrina Thom­pson, who top­
Tennessee." 
ped No. 74 Sufi 2-6, 6-3, 7-5. 

Sarah Jane Connelly At No. 2 was 
captain Buck, who only needed two sets to defeat Pur­
have to be really adaptable for any changes [right before the match]. 
"But we are hoping to get 

Christian back because she is a real anchor for our team." 
of the year, you begin devel­due's Wooten 6-3, 6-2. oping a rhythm. You just The two other wins came 


COME SUPPORT THE IRISH THIS WEEK! 
BASEBALL 
VS Georgetown Thursday, March 24th (Doubleheader) 
12:05 PM Frank Eck Stadium Free Admission with valid ND student ID! 
Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for more information 


*Easter Egg 
hunt with cash izes following egameforND Students! 

SOFTBALL 
VS Western Michigan Wednesday, March 23rd 4:00PM Ivy Field 
Free Admission! 
from Lauren Connelly at No. 3 and Stastny at No. 4. Connelly defeated Zuccarini 4-6, 7-6 (7-4), 6-2 and Stastny bested Rodriguez 6­2, 6-3. 
The losses came at the Nos. 5 and 6 positions from Smith and junior Liz Donohue. 
Smith lost to the Boilermaker's Beier 3-6, 0-6 and Donohue fell to Amy Walgenbach 6-3, 4-6, 0-6. 
Notre Dame will next hit the courts when the Irish travel to Stillwater, Oklahoma this Saturday to face Oklahoma State at 1 p.m. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 





Win over California builds confidence 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Going into Tuesday's game against California, Irish head coach Tracy Coyne wanted to· turn things around. 
"Our mindset was that we were 1-4, and we wanted to go out and have a good game today and play the way we knew we could play," Coyne said. 
Notre Dame certainly did that against California, topping the Golden Bears 18-8 at the Loftus Sports Complex. 
Junior midfielder Crysti Foote led the Irish offensively, scoring four goals and two assists, including the first goal of the game at 3:49 into the contest. 
Notre Dame never trailed, jumping out to a 6-1 lead at 
18:47 behind two goals by both Foote and freshman midfielder Caitlin McKinney. California cut the lead to three with goals by senior attacker Molly Brady and sophomore midfielder Laura Cavallo. 
However, two goals by junior midfielder Brittany Fox within two minutes and a goal by jun­ior defense player Lena Zentgraf·at 27:06 gave the Irish a 9-3 cushion going into half­time. 
After halftime, California found itself in a rhythm, scoring four goals inside the first 10 minutes of the half while shut­ting out the Irish in that span, cutting the lead to 9-7 with goals from sophomore attacker Liz Heifsnyder, Brady, sopho­more midfielder Jocelyn Paul and Cavallo. Heifsnyder, Cavallo and Brady each finished the game with two goals, tying for the team lead. 
"They made a little bit of a run in the second half, but I think we were able to shut that down. The team responded to that," Coyne said. 
The Irish shut down the Golden Bears hot streak, hold­ing California scoreless for the next 18:41 while going on an 8­0 run of their own in that period to put the game out of reach. Foote got the Irish going again, scoring her third goal 11:38 into the period to kick start the Irish offense. 
"With Crysti stepping up and scoring, that answer gave everybody else confidence, and then they [California) only scored one after that," Coyne said. 
Ten seconds later, freshman midfielder Heather Ferguson, who finished with two goals, scored again for Notre Dame, getting the assist from senior attacker Jackie Bowers before beating sophomore California goalkeeper Hilary Lynch to give Notre Dame the 11-7 lead. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


Wednesday, March 23, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
AND SO THAT'S WHY ... ~  EXCUSE ME. YOU'RE NOT ENTITLED TO YOUR OPINION. I  I COPYRIGHTED ALL OF THE STUPIDEST OPINIONS IN THE UNIVERSE SO THEY CAN NEVER AGAIN BE UTTERED. \  HEY! I JUST REALIZED THAT I NO LONGER NEED TO DRINK! I  
PEANUTS  CHARLES SCHULZ  

AND ANOTI-IER TI11NG .. IN OUR HOUSE WE  I'M NOT BEGGING .. I  
DON'T ALLOW DOGS TO BEG AT THE TABLE~  WAS JUST SITTING HERE,  
AND 1-tAPPENED TO BE  
FACING YOUR WAY..  

HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
BOINS 

I I I (J 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~'i;~--1 
TANNIE 
WI-\E:N THE' KITC-HE:N



I I I 
HaP FELL B-EHIND,
www.jumble.cam 
THE C-HEF WA?--­

GLUBIN j 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as

I I r CJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print a=er here: 

"[ I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles: JULEP PATIO BUSHEL TOUCHY Answer: How she felt when her cobbler recipe won the blue ribbon -JUST "PEACHY" 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 36 Not completely 64 Fitzgerald ot dissolved, as a scat
Beginner drink mix 65 It ebbs and 5 Ceiling support 38 Online auction flows9 Brass house 66 Approximately
instruments 39 Collect 
67 "Whatcha ?"
4 Crowd noise 41 "Dear" letter 68 Dublin's land, in5 The Bruins of recipient 
poetry 42 Guitar bars 
the Pac Ten 
69 School readings 43 Pickle flavoring 70 Gulp from a 
s Take by force 
7 Just twiddling one's thumbs 44 Copier of a bottle manuscript
!I Diagram 71 Mexican 46 Wide shoe 
sandwich9 Juliet's beloved specification DOWN

[)Navel 47 Mama Cass 1 Arapaho or
3 Louisville Apache
Slugger 49 Dirties 2 Alpine song
4 French president's 
51 TV host Winfrey 3 Come from residence 53 Shines . behind 5 Critical 4 Ultimatum words 
57 F.B.I. employee: 7 "Oh my Abbr. 5 Hobgoblin 
goodness!" 59 The Midwest, 6 Off-white [)Hippie agriculturally 
7 Landed (on)happening speaking 
8 Fox comedy 3 One of the 62 Bar mitzvah series 34 Silents star 48 Satellite paths 57Smell_(be Bushes officiator Jannings leery)
9 Seek help from 50 Last six lines of 35 Vote depository 
1 o Bob Hope tour a sonnet 58 Kotter of .NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE grp. 37 Threesome "Welcome Back,
52 Obeys40 Lingerie item Kotter"11 Big stinger 54 Director
42 Guy

12 _ code (long-Kurosawa 60 Strike blow distance need) 44 Christmas tree 
55 Doc 61 552, in old
topper

13 Parking place Rome 45 Cosmic 56 Meeting
21 Safecrackers 
explosion transcriber 63 Except 22 Slick 
~~~~~~ 26 Profess For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a .:; 28 Frisbee, e.g. credit card, 1-800-814-5554. -:-:"t-=-t-=-t-=1 29 Mixes Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
31 "Must've been ~7+-:':+::+;-"!!'t-:::+:+.:-l something _" 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -.i:+.:.+:rl-:::+.i~:-r.+::-+=:-81-:-1 32 Nasdaq rival Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
33 Green gem solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.
..:;..J,,;_;_j,....:...J...:;..J,....:...J...::...L,;_;_j,..:;..J,..::...L,;_;_j,....:...J 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS BAY: Reese Witherspoon, 29; Elvis Stojko, 33; Matthew Modinc, 46; Andrew Lloyd Wehner, 57 
Happy Birthday: Change is good, so stop trying to run away from it. There is nothing you can't accomplish once you put your mind to it. This is a year of opportunity and rewards if you play your canis right. Don't sit on the sidelines waiting to see what happens; be a participant. Your numbers arc 3, II, 18, 29, 35.47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'can turn this into a power play day if you set goals and go after them. The timing is right to invest in your ideas and to enlist the help of people you know can contribute. Romam:e is highlighted. ***** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You will probahly have to juggle things uround today. Some discord will.occur if you arc disagrccahle or stuhhorn. This is not the day to make a final decision. Listen and ohserve. ** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You can make some extremely crucial maneuvers that will enahle you to get what you want. A personal pari ncr will show greater interest. A competitive challenge will lean in your favor. **** CANCER (.June 21-.luly 22): Your focus should he on work and getting things out of the way. If you arc determined in your efforts, you will impress your friends and colleagues. The chance to advance is present, hut stay humhlc. *"* LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): This is your day to add to·your appearance as well as your attitude. Learning. changing and getting a grip on how you sec yourself in the future will lead to a hctter and more powerful you. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): So the tight hegins. Back up three steps and consider that it may be time to hring ahout some much-needed change in your life. Keep your plans a secret for now. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take a deep hreath heforc you decide to plunge into foreign territory. Someone or something will tempt you today. However, it may just lead to a whole new outlook as well as a hrighter future. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may feel as if you can take on any challenge. but be careful. If emotional issues interfere, you may have difficulty completing what you promised to do. Bide your time. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): This is your day, no matter how you slice it. You can do no wrong, and when it comes to moving upward or taking on the competition, you will he light-years ahead of everyone else. Take a stah at something you've always wanted to do. ***"'* CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your money where your mouth is and get ahead financially. You can wheel and deal to your heart's content and make a place for yourself in any group you decide to join. But don't go overhoard. *** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Communicate, educate and place yourself where the action is. You will attract attention, draw new friends and have favors granted if you ask for help. Make contact with someone from your past. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The focus should he on work, health and doing what's best for you. Changes regarding the way you earn your living are prohably needed. Consider your talents and work toward putting them to work for you. 
*** 
Birthday Hahy: You arc entertaining and incrcdihly colorful. and you can certainly turn heads. You arc a giver and a powerful friend. You will hend over backwards to d(~ what's right and what's nest for everyone. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com jiJr jim, euger1ia/ast.com for confidemia/ consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, March 23, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Sneak peek 
Weis reveals Brown, Zorich, Montana and Theismann will coach Blue and Gold game 
March 29, six days away-theBy PAT LEONARD 
Notre Dame head football 
Sports Writer 

coach also divulged some 
unexpected information. 

Charlie Weis made himself, Former Notre Dame football his assistant coaches and players Tim Brown, Joe selected Montana, Joe Theismann and players avail­
Chris Zorich all will return to able to campus the weekend of the reporters Blue and Gold game (April 23) Tuesday to serve as assistant coaches in afternoon for the spring contest. Spring Foot­"Those players ... are four ball Media good representatives and Day. alums of Notre Dame that were 
While the part of this football program, function that matriculated through served as a Weis here, that could help restore standard the image of Notre Dame," preview to spring practice ­which begins. on Tuesday, see WEIS/page 22 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 


ERIC SALES!The Observer Junior Lauren Connelly returns a volley in the doubles portion of Tuesday's meet against Purdue. 
Victory over Purdue boosts team's morale 
Irish snap two-match losing streak, collect much-needed win 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
After dropping their last two matches, losing one of their key players to an injury and fall~ng to No. 29 in the team NCAA rankings -the Irish were in desperate need of a win. 
Fortunately for Notre Dame (7-7), it found little trouble in achieving this feat by defeat­ing No. 61 Purdue (2-8) 5-2 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion on Tuesday. 

Despite losing key matches to No. 24 BYU and No. 23 Tennessee last week, the Irish looked confident against the Boilermakers as they began the contest with a sweep in the doubles matches. 
Playing at No. 1 for the Irish were sophomore Catrina Thompson and junior Kiki Stastny. The pairing defeated the team of Lara Burgarello and Shawna Zuccarini 8-4. 
The No. 2 pairing of fr"esh­man Brook Buck and junior 
see TENNIS/page 22 

Team is ready to test its revamped offense 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Experience. Excitement. And absolutely no excuses. The 2005 version of the Irish offense is ready to shed the last vestiges of a controversial off­season and start fresh in spring practices. Returning 10 of 11 starters and 20 letterwinners from last year's 6-6 squad, the team's leaders are ready to prove their worth. 
New head coach Charlie Weis is ready to implement an offense of the style that won three Super Bowls in four years when he was 
see OFFENSE/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Pitchers prove pivotal in 10-4 vvin 
By TOM DORWART Spotts Writer 

On a chilly, blustery evening at Frank Eck Stadium, an armada of Notre Dame pitchers shut down Cincinnati in the Irish home opener. 
Notre Dame used eight pitch­ers en route to a 10-4 win Tuesday -giving some of the less experienced hurlers an inning or two of work. The Irish improved to 8-9 on the year. 
The Irish jumped on the board early with a run in the bottom of the first. Leadoff batter Alex Nettey alertly sprinted to first base after a dropped third strike. Nettey advanced to third after a single up the middle by 'Second baseman Brett Lilley. Hard-hitting first baseman Matt Edwards then hit a sacrifice fly to dead center field. 
Notre Dame pitchers Derik Olvey and Scott Bickford set the tone early when they faced a combined nine Bearcat batters through three innings. The two controlled the game, holding the 'Cats to one hit and no runs. 
Bickford appeared for his sixth time this season. After a suc­cessful previous week, including his first win of the season against Northern Illinois, he is gaining poise. 

"I feel extremely comfortable out there," Bickford said. "A big part of it is that my confidence has gone up. I'm a senior and I haven't thrown much in the past in four years. It's good to get out there on the mound frequently. That helps a lot with confidence. Once your confidence is up, everything goes well." . 
All eight Notre Dame pitchers held Cincinnati's top two hitters -shortstop Mark Haske and third baseman Jon DeLuca-to one hit apiece. 
In the top of the fourtb, the 
see PITCHERS/page 21 


Freshman Joey Williamson delivers a pitch at Tuesday's victorious home opener against Cincinnati. 


LLI u  NO SOFTBALl  SMC TENNIS  WOMEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT  MEN'S NCAA TinJRNAMENT  ClUB SPORTS  MEN'S NIT  
z::5 ~  The team is returning home after 21 away  The Belles anticipate a challenging match ver- The No. 1 seed LSU team toppled Arizona in  UW-Milwaukee will face Illinois Thursday in  The team  men's rowing and women's  South Carolina beats UNL V 77-66 in the sec- 
c:r:  games to take Western Michigan.  on  sus Olivet.  the second round of the NCAA tournament.  the regional semifinals.  water polo team competed  ond round of the NIT.  
=:c  page 21  page 21  page 20.  page 19  in weekend ments.  tourna­ page 15  












