_ _, ___ ___, ....... 
,...,....,...,..--,------~,---:-.-:-,--:,-,:--:-,-:-, -:-, ....,.,--,-.~-;.-;,;------~----:-.--:-.--;-,--;,-;,;-;r-,......--r--r-"-----:--:-:--;-----------~ ~~--­
' . 
~ • I • -. '" '• ' I ' ' I t l \' l • , , I i , o • '·.' ,' 

.. 
' I , ~ 
' 
·........ , ... -a.·. . •. 
' ..'. ' .~ 

page 2 The Observer + IN FOCUS Monday, December 12, 2005 
Leaders fix faults of predecessors 
Baron, Shappell work with University, lessen animosity 


By MADDIE HANNA In Focus Writer 

Student body president Dave Baron and vice president Lizzi Shappell have made signifi­cant headway with the University administration and experienced considerable suc­cess in their initiatives this year, but it hasn't always been that way for Notre Dame's student body leaders. 
Last year, student body president Adam Istvan and vice president Karla Bell struggled to produce on their platform initiatives. 
Within a few months of tak­ing office, the pair set up a DVD rental system in LaFortune and secured Fair Trade coffee in the dining halls and HuddleMart, quickly meeting two of their original goals. 
But they couldn't deliver 
their biggest promise -the return of SYRs to the dorms -and began to sidestep the topic in discussion. 
Istvan, who once said the return of SYRs would be "the Holy Grail" of campus policy, shrugged off the failure by saying there were other ways to restore dorm pride. 
"I'd love to say that we could have SYRs back the way they used to be, but I think it's more realistic to say that we could work with rectors and Student Affairs to find a suit­able replacement for them," Istvan told The Observer in August 2004. "They boosted dorm pride, and we want to restore that." 
While the idea was implau­sible, Istvan and Bell had run and won after convincing stu­dents they could achieve the unachievable. 

Next came the SafeBus fias­co, where harsh criticism of the fall 2004 proposal from the Board of Trustees left Istvan, Bell and then-chief executive assistant Baron with another strike through a main goal of their administra­tion. 
This year has been a study in contrasts, where Baron and Shappell have initiated coop­erative conversation with University administrators and received an across the board positive response. 
''I'm thrilled with the level of communication ... the will­ingness to meet with stu­dents," Shappell said. 
Baron said Executive Vice President John Affleck­Graves' upcoming January visit to Student Senate reflects a new openness on the part of University President Father John Jenkins' administration. 
"That kind of interaction is exciting and unprecedented," he said. 

Quite a change from Istvan, who told The Observer in February 2004 that he heard rumors he was Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman's "No. 1 hated student." 
In a farewell address at his last Student Senate meeting, Istvan revealed an underlying resentment toward the administration. 
"When I was trying to figure out what to say at my last offi­cer report at the last Senate meeting, first I was going to write a scathing report about how the administration treats us like children," Istvan said on March 30. "But we've already been there, so I'm not going to do that." 
Baron's been there too, and from the looks of things, he's not going back. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

WHAT DO YOU THINK OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT? 



Claire Sloss  Chris Castellan  Heidi Storer  Leonard Edokpolo  Bobby Seus  Shane Calendar  
freshman McGlinn  junior Keough  sophomore Pangborn  junior O'Neill  senior Alumni  junior Alumni  
''I've heard about the new free cups in the dining hall. "  "Jason Laws was the greatest freshman class president the Class of2007 ever had."  "Re-elect Jason Laws!"  "What's that?"  "It seems like we have it just to have it. "  "I have a giant raging man-crush on Dave Baron. ,  


Editor's note: The Observer is p~blishing a comprehensive revieuJofthe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student govern­ments. This issue is intended to illustrate for students what elected officials are doing in their name, so they can enter the election season fully informed. Its intent is to provide an illuminating.. unbiased assessment ofthe state ofthe student union. 
IN Focus STAFF 
Maddie Hanna Katie Perry Heather Van Hoegarden Graham Ebetsch Matt Hudson 

Monday, December 12, 2005 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 3 
OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 


Professionalism, progess help leaders succeed 
Baron, Shappell establish partnership with administrators in first semester 
By MADDIE HANNA 
In Focus Writer 
While progress, partnership and professionalism can be hard to come by in student govern­ment administrations, student body president Dave Baron and viee presidont Lizzi Shappell have achieved all three. 
"We feel it's our responsibili­ty," Shappell said, "to put our position out there in the most formal and professional way possible." 
That professional attitude has helped Baron and Shappell dur­ing the first half of their tenure to form dose ties with University administrators -a partnership necessary to make progress in a systnm whern the University has the final say. 
"We are limitnd in a lot of what we can do," Baron said. "We're not a governing body. We're not in a position to demand changes or chokes. Our power lies in our ability to make an argument ... we figured that out pretty early on." 
Shappell said dealing with the South Bend Common Council's July 25 passage of the amend­ment to the dis­orderly house 
ordinance -a "In seven years, no it's also the end change that has of the semester.
administration has hit 
since resulted in The fact that an
the ground running as
six students' issue so integral evictions and well as David to the election several more campaign disap­
and Lizzi." 
notices to abate peared from the -has been one radar for this 
Father Mark Poorman
of the biggest long suggests challenges for VIce President for that it may not her and Baron. Student Affairs have been a pri­spring's election season, and candidates were forced to take a stand. Baron and Shappell promised to build an endowment by seeking alumni donors. 
"Until this endowment beeomes a reality," the platform read, "we will increase the SUB concert budget, and contact other regional schools like Purdue and Northwestern to coordinate week-long tours that will attract quality performers." 
But the issue of the endow­ment was seemingly reintro­duced only as a result of recent discussion on Student Union fis­cal policy and the student gov­ernment's carry forward account, which currently con­tains an unused $180,000. Baron and Shappell recently met with vice president of University Helations Lou Nanni to discuss the possibility of creating such an endowment. 
Why the delay? 
"With the announcement of cable coming to dorms, the University has been putting out quite a bit of money to student life," Baron said. "[A proposal for an endowment) wouldn't have been received as well ... there's still plenty of time." 
It's a valid 
argument, but 

"It kind of just made our com­munity relations piece a little morn intnresting," she said. ''I'm happy with the way we've addrnssed it so far." 
During the summer, Baron ral­lied a few other student govern­ment representatives in the South Bend arna to attend South Bend Common Council meetings on bohalf of the student body. 
This year, Baron and Shappell established a Community Helations committee on Student Senate, which rneently passed a resolution highlighting what sen­ators believe to be unfair aspeets of thn amendmnnt. The resolu­tion will be presented at an upcoming Common Couneil nwnting. 
But would the sanw amount of attention be devoted to this issue if the amendment had never bonn proposnd? 
One of Baron and Shappell's primary platform goals was to improve eommunity relations, so thnre was certainly an element of foresight -and the ambition to t.ac:kln an issue other student govnrnment administrations have avoidnd. 
llownw1r, other platform goals have not materializnd. A programming endownwnt was a hot topic during last 
ority, or that its feasibility was not fully considered. 
Or it could mean that Baron and Shappell, like responsible student leaders, were just too busy dealing with issues that arose. 
At times, it seemed like new waves of problems broke one after another. Besides the ordi­nance and student evictions, Baron and Shappell were e6n­fronted with coordinating a response to Hurricane Katrina as well as the messy issue of pep rallies and the dilemma in find­ing a balance between meeting total student demand and deal­ing with empty seats. 
Shappell and other members of student government worked with the Student Aetivities Office and Athletics and Facilities administrators to refine the sys­tem. It still isn't perfect -and its full effects won't be seen until next fall -but Shappell and the others involved did what they could. 
Another pillar of the Baron­Shappell campaign, a speaker series bringing prominent Catholics and non-Catholics to campus to diseuss Notre Dame's "role as a Catholic Think Tank of America," has not yet occurred. While the event series is sehed­uled to begin next semester -at Student Senate meetings, chief executive assistant Liz Kozlow consistently assures senators the process is underway -Baron told The Observer last February he planned to have the first speaker in the series at Notre Dame before the end of the year. 
Regardless of their currently unfulfilled promises, there's no denying Baron and Shappell's work ethic, as Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman pointed out in an Aug. 31 address to the Senate. 
"These people have not been sleeping, I want you to know," Poorman said. "In seven years, no administration has hit the ground running as well as David and Lizzi." 
Poorman's words of praise were directed toward Baron and Shappell's development of the Gender Resource Center, the acquisition of NDBay, the inau­guration plans for University President Father John Jenkins and the deal with TRANSPO ­one of the administration's first and most concrete accomplish­ments, allowing students, faculty and staff to ride TRANSPO routes in between campus and South Bend for free. 
What Baron and Shappell have accomplished has been primarily through small, carefully execut­ed movements. A good example of this is the $15 increase in the student activities fee, the tenta­tive sum result of two resolu­tions passed by Senate this semester -one to simply increase the fee, the other to modify the fixed allocation per­centages of the Student Union eonstitution to allow for the implementation of the College Readership Program. 
And while the University has not yet officially approved the proposal, Baron is almost posi­tive it will go through. He's already cheeked it out with Poorman. 
"I feel like we're not going to get as much done if we enter in a combative role," Baron said. "It's been a step-by-step process. That's how it's got to work." 
The approach makes sense given the pair's seasoned student government background. Baron, a senior, served as freshman class president and chief execu­tive assistant for last year's Istvan administration, while Shappell, a junior, was last year's Senate Gender Issues committee chair. 
The Baron-Shappell response to problems surrounding the basketball ticketing system is also indicative of the pair's over­all philosophy. The perpetually frustrating issue has been stalled in student government for years now, and part of the pair's plat­form was to improve the system, suggesting the expansion of TicketShare to a Web site and half season ticket packages. 
True to the platform, the issue ~arne up at one of the first Senate meetings of the new administration. Senators weren't receptive to the idea of half sea­son tickets, but the University Affairs committee scooped up the online TieketShare idea. 

That never came through, but progress was made in establish­ing a "Moonlight Madness" event -the content of which was not decided by student government -and other modifications to the system, after extensive meetings with Director of Ticketing Operations Josh Berlo and other administrators. 
"I think every interested stu­dent was able to get tickets this season," Shappell said. "It's a work in progress as all ticketing things are ... baby steps." 
The recent developments with the Board of Trustees are also baby steps toward a bigger goal of getting a student to actually sit on the Board, Baron and Shappell said. 
This year, the Board of Trustees has extended invita­tions to the pair to attend meet­ings focused on topics pertaining to students as well as Board social funetions, a change Baron described as "excellent" and "reflective of the continually improving relationship between student government and the administration." 
The format of student govern­ment's traditional triannual pre­sentations to the Board has changed as well. 
Under the new changes, the Board will hear a fall report from a student group, a winter State of the Student Union address from student govern­ment and a spring report from student government, unless stu­dent government designates another group to give the pres­entation. 
This year, Baron, Shappell and Kozlow's fall presentation on the ever-present topic of community relations garnered very positive feedback from the Board, a good indicator that student govern­ment is taking advantage of newly presented opportunities and working to develop a closer relationship with the Board, as well as the Jenkins administra­tion. 
"It's important for the first stu­dent administration Iunder University President Father John Jenkins) to build a connection, set a good tone," Baron said. 
They're committed to setting this tone, but Baron and Shappell have been enjoying themselves in the process. 
"It's got to be fun," Baron said. "We don't take ourselves too seriously or we're going to lose our heads." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal @nd.edu 
GRADE: 
A­

BARON AND SHAPPELL HAVE USED EXPERIENCE TO THEIR ADVANTAGE TO WORK WITH ADMINISTRATORS AND IMPLEMENT CHANGES TO BENEFIT STUDENT LIFE. THIS 
EXPERIENCE ALSO GIVES THEM 
CREDIBILITY IN DEALING WITH 
INHERENTLY COMPLEX ISSUES LIKE COMMUNITY RELATIONS, 
TOPIC WHICH HAS BECOME TH ADMINISTRATION'S HALLMARK.' TO LEAVE A MORE COMPLETE LEGACY, HOWEVER, THE PAIR. NEEDS TO FIND A WAY TO FOCUS SOME OF ITS EFFORTS . ON CAMPAIGN PROMISES AND RESOLVE ISSUES PRESENTED EARLY IN ITS TERM. 
Campa.ign Promises In Review 

DELIVERED PENDING UNSUCCESSFUL 
+ 
Bottcr alternative transportation +Catholic Think Tank Speaker Series + Build a <~oncert endowment 

+ 
More printers in residence hans + South Bend Opportunities Guide + Expand TicketShare 

+ 
To-go cups in dining halls +Support official recognition of Gay­+ Student discount at Uw Bookstore • on·-campus safety seminar Straight AIHance +Weekly updates to student 

+ 
Moonlight Madness + Wish list for new Student Center government Web site 


STUDENT SENATE 

Members tackle responsibility with effort 
Academic Affairs 
A· This committee was 

for the set of resolu· to tncrease the student activ· fee, a necessary measure to 
lnl'u">IPITIPI~t the College Readership carried over from last Senate committee. But the of its efforts ,"quiet leg " according to chair chris -have yet to materialize. 
Community Relations 

B+ One of two new Senate trn•.nn-•itto.ac tli1s year, this grappled with ways to the relationship between Dame and South Bend. Little 
been produced, apart from a to the student body and a tion that will be present«! 
the South Bend Common But if chair Nick Guzman carry through on his seven· nt plan next semester, the will be impressive. 
Diversity Affairs 

8 Since last year's aware• weeks had a tired feel, this committee decided to take different approach: emphasize awareness. However,.the 's accomplishments •-+ a mut­dorm commissioner "Stand against Hate" gn and International IAv.r;o,r~m,.!':<: Week +< did not have impact chair Sarah Liu sPF•m"· ··· be after. 
Gender Issues 
successes, like to·'go clips 
dining halls, as well as the of larger initiatives, like technological improve• 

and research regarding a student center .. Some orc1ie(:tsl to be stalled, however;. 
University Affairs 
• A· Starting productiVely, · committee brought a new J:.a'""'""m ... nt with TRANSPO bacKto 

·after a summer of .work~ atthough much. effort waJs Pllt 1 
PAMELA LOCK!The Observer Left, Student Senate members discuss Eating Disorders Awareness Week during an October meeting. Middle and right, senators meet during the fall. Senate members have passed thoughtful and important resolutions over the course of the semester. 
By MADDIE HANNA In Focus Writer 

The Student Senate has the greatest responsibility of Notre Dame's student government organizations as a policymaking body, and for the most part, this year's group has taken that responsibility seriously. Senate leaders are some of the student body's hardest workers and have pushed through a number of important resolutions after intel· ligent discussion. 
The Senate's eight committees -Academic Affairs, Community Relations, Diversity Affairs, Gender Issues, Minority Affairs, Oversight, Residence Life and University Affairs -each have their own agendas and periodi­cally present resolutions to the full Senate. 
But after long, heated debates, the Senate sometimes runs into problems producing what it promises. 
It should be noted that student government, even a relatively powerful body like Senate, is and will always be unable to push any measure past an unwilling administration. The Senate's passed resolutions are essentially recommendations that members of the administra­tion can choose to pursue or dis­regard. It's the way the system works. 
The difference is that this year, senators seem to be learning to work with the system rather than against it. 
Tangibles 

This year's Senate has struck a balance between sweeping goals and tangible achievements. 
While it's easier to evaluate the second category, both paths have led to success. 
The University Affairs commit­tee, chaired by Matt Walsh, was in constant communication over the summer with the Office of Business Operations while the University was negotiating agreements with TRANSPO and FedEx Kinkos. 
Now, partly due to the commit-tee's insistence that student input be considered in the nego­tiations, students can ride TRANSPO buses throughout the community for free and take advantage of improved copy service options. 

Gender Affairs committee chair Ali Wishon has devoted herself to her group's tasks, and her dedication is apparent. Over the summer, she worked exten· sively with the University to revamp the Freshman Orientation sexual assault pro­gram, "From Football to Finals." The change has contributed to an increased number of sexual assault reports, something stu­dent body president Dave Baron said indicates that more stu­dents have found the courage to report incidents. 
Wishon's committee also ran a smoothly coordinated Eating Disorders Awareness Week and is planning a Sexual Assault Awareness Week for nest semes­ter. 
Other concrete Senate accom­plishments include the Residence Life committee's to-go cups in the dining halls and Carroll and D6 parking lot cross­walks, as well as a "Stand against Hate" poster campaign and International Education Week coordinated by the Diversity Committee. 
Larger goals 

The Senate's most commend· able quality is arguably its will· ingness to devote serious atten­tion to weighty matters. Since taking office, senators have not shied away from complexity. 
Senators passed a resolution on Oct. 12 to increase the stu­dent activities fee by $15, a two· part proposal contingent on the group's later passage of a reso­lution to modify the fixed alloca· tion percentages in the Student Union constitution. 
;The explanation was compli­cated -Baron and Academic Affairs committee chair Chris Harris put an extensive amount of work into the proposal with the eventual goal of implement­ing the College Readership Program -and the debate was back -and-forth. 
But after careful consideration of the alternatives, the Senate passed the resolution, present· ing a good example of how gov­ernment should work. 
Mark Seiler's Residence Lifa committee has worked alongside the University on getting printers in the dorms -a pilot program started last year by the Office of Information Technology -and informing the student body of procedures surrounding the upcoming installation of cable and wireless in the residence halls. 
These projects are indicative of the more open and coopera­tive conversation between the University and student govern­ment, a conversation initiated by Baron and Shappell that Senate has continued to build. 
Senators have also confronted intangible and controversial top­ics that encompass the entire Notre Dame community. 
The newly established Community Relations committee, chaired by Nick Guzman, has an ambitious list of seemingly feasi­ble projects -incorporating a community element to the fresh­man orientation program and publishing a South Bend oppor· tunities guide, for example ­designed to build the relation­ship betWeen Notre Dame stu· dents and members of the South Bend community. 
This year's other new commit­tee, Minority Affairs, is chaired by Rhea Boyd and recently pre· sented a resolution urging the creation of a University commit­tee to examine "cultural compe­tency" at Notre Dame, a modifi­cation of last year's proposal for a diversity course requirement. 
While the resolution is cur­rently stalled in Faculty Senate until February, Boyd said her committee has been in continual dialogue with high-level admin­istrators who support the com· mittee's goals and have used Boyd as a resource for their efforts in promoting diversity at Notre Dame. 
The Senate spent several meetings discussing the University's new institutional spot "Candle," which first aired Sept. 10 and incited debate about the face of the University and the advertisement's impact on admissions. 
While no policy change came of the discussion, the range of passionate responses demon­strated the. group's belief that its decision to send or not to send a letter to administrators mat­tered. 
There is a clear difference between discussion for the sake of discussion and discussion with the eventual intent of implemen­tation. While the Senate has cer­tainly approached topics of this magnitude in past years, they were not always considered with an actual end in mind -some­thing that sets this Senate apart. 
Next semester, the University Affairs and Gender Issues com· mittees will present a compre­hensive report assessing existing resources for gay, lesbian, bisex­ual, transgender and question­ing (GLBTQ) students to deter­mine what needs are currently not being met. 
Drawbacks 
Even though many positive changes have emerged from Senate this year, the group still shoulders its fair share of short· comings. 
It became evident early in the new term that a few senators have a tendency to speak with· out a clear point, repeating com­ments with the type of nuanced wording that can only belong to an elected official. There are only so many ways to say the same thing, and senators who like the sound of their own voic­es should be careful not to wear them out. 
The problem of repetition extends to committees who report the same news week after week. When a committee chair's main news is that "the process is underway" for a particular proj­ect, a statement that becomes the only news reported to the Senate over the next few weeks, it appears that no progress has been made. 
At other times, it appeared that a project's feasibility was not fully considered or that the goal was inadequately pursued. An example is the proposal to put the TicketShare basketball ticket distribution program online, an idea that had been floating around Senate for months. But when the week of ticket distribution arrived, TicketShare was nowhere near the Web. 
Senate members justified the situation by saying they'd rather have a quality program tomor­row than a passable program today. When frustrations regard­ing basketball tickets have been mounting since last season, how· ever, pushing an improved TicketShare system to next year doesn't seem logical. 
Less glaring is the truth that not everyone is a leader. This isn't a characteristic unique to Student Senate or even this year's group of senators, but it is nonetheless a weakness. This year's committee chairs are exceptionally motivated, and their participation in the Senate's affairs can easily over­shadow that of the senators. 
In order for the Senate to reach its potential for success, all members must take an active role and remember why they were elected -to serve as advo­cates for their dorm constituents and strive to improve campus life. 
Halfway· through the year, they're well on their way. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

. .. . . .'
~~ 
I, ~ I I

' . . ' .. ~ .. ; ; 
Monday, December 12, 2005 

The Observer + IN FOCUS page 5 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group has moderate success as advisory body 
Members must build upon their role as sounding board to Baron and Shappell 


By KAREN LANGLEY 
In !'oms Writer 
This semestl'r. tho Council of l!epn~sentativns (COl{) has procossod nominations and approvals nllkiontly whilo showing modnratn succnss as an advisory body to tlw studPnt body prnsidnnt -hut its nwmlwrs must fully PmhracP tlwir rolP as a sounding hoard in ordPr for CO H to rmLiizP ito.; pottmtial as tho solo body unit­ing tlw policy and programming divisions of studont govnrnment. 
As dnscrihnd in thn student union constitution, COH mentings arn lwld to providn a "vnnue for ltmdt~rs of tlw various student organizations to nwnt and advisn tlw Studont Body J>msident on all rnattors concerning tlw Student Union 

''I'm excited about some 
as a wholn." The still remains on group is also in the possibility of expediency. dmrgo of approving creating an COH must be nominations for praised for profes­
endowment for 
appointnd ol'fkns, sional treatment of
future classes. " 
approving the a potontially volatile Studont Union situation, the hudgnt and control­group's Sept. 19
Lizzi Shappell
ling usn of tlw meeting with city
student body
( :ollahoration hmd. ofl1eials to discuss
vice president
Tlw group has mado satisfartory progrnss in achitwing mu~h of thnsn goals, ynt it remains challnngnd by sonw rnluetanco of ilo.; mmnbors to ongago in lengthy and candid dis­cussions about nach meeting's husirwss. 
MPmbnrs of COH represent a divorso cross-stwtion of tho studnnt hody -allli1ur dassns, oll~campus st.udonts, the Club Coordination Council, the Studont Union Board, tho .Judicial Council, llall l'rosidont's Council, the Financial Managnmnnt Board and the Studmrt Snnato -and arP thorn­lim~ nxptwtnd to bring thoir rnspnc­tiw vinws to eadr isstu~. 
Student body president Dave Baron said bnl'ore lw entnrod olliCI\ lw "exp11clod that each rep­rPstmtativn would bring li1rth eon­cnrns as they see thmn to repre­smrt thnir eonstitunndes." 
Topks such as tlw studnnt aetivi­ty fon incroasos and the budget rmlllocations brought out repre­sontativns' loyalties, as most speakors voiced opinions consis­tlmt with their constituencies' best intnresLo.;. 
Hnprnsontatives sit on COH to interact with various campus organizations, but as a group they aro somewhat reluctant to partiei­pato in any rigorous discussions. They leave much of the direction to Baron, who is supposed to be gleaning knowledge about stu­denLo.;' perspectives from the meet­ings. <)uestions are asked and comments are made, but more of each is needed to make COH the truly dynamic body it should be under ilo.; constitutional mandate. 
The group scorns poinl<> for effi­ciency, which is a necessary quality of' efli1ctive government. COR must continue to be governed so that an increasml representation or views in dobate is valued while focus 
the summer amend­
ment to South Bend's disorderly houso ordinance. South Bend assistant city attorney Ann-Carol Nash and District 4 Common Council mnmber Ann Puznllo l'orcel'ully dol'onded the city's actions to a ).,troup which gen­erally spoke with respect. but whose care prevented them from accomplishing much -if any a1:eomplishment was possible in an exchangn between two such dia­metrically opposnd sides. 
Two meetings were also spent examining The Shirt Project, whose mission and structure were examined and discussnd aftnr a football season in which the stu­dont snction was garbed in many different colored and designed shirts. While two mentings was a rolativoly large time investment to lnnd to the topic, The Shirt Project's spirit-raising means and charitable end merit this attention. 
While drier than ilo.; debates over the South Bend party policy or the Shirt Project's objectives, the rocnnt dnbatns over changns to lis­cal policy may provn to be among this term's most significant COH discussions in terms or future implications. 
"I'm exdtnd about the possibility of creating an endowment for futuro dassos," Shappell said. 
Like the increase in student activities fees diseussed Oct. 3, the tweaking or the student union's lis­cal policy will directly afli1ct future student bodies in ways most COH discussions may not. But the activi­ties fee raise is a predictable increase modeled after the incroases approved in years past. The fiscal policy work is a particu­larly significant because it demon­strates an act of initiative on the part of COH to tackle a fresh but much-needed issue that will impact future students, as well as all the members' constituencies. 
COH has shown it can l'ullill its mission in a satisfactory manner, but it has the potential to make a stronger contribution to student government if it can lind the bal­ance between increasing debate among members and maintaining the eflieiency which has marked this administration's leadership of the group. 

PAMELA LOCK/The Observer Student body vice president Uzzl Shappell, left, president Dave Baron and student union secretary Aly Baumgartner meet this fall. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle 1 @nd.edu 



GRADE: B 
As AN ADVISORY GROUP TO THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT, COR HAS SUFFICIENTLY MET ITS MAIN OBJECTIVES BY PROVIDING SOUND RECOMMENDATIONS TO STUDENT LEADERSHIP. THE GROUP'S EFFICIENCY IS LAUDABLE, BUT KEY DISCUSSIONS OFTEN LACK WHOLEHEARTED 
PARTICIPATION OF ALL MEMBERS. THE GROUP SUCCEEDED IN INITIATING LONG-TERM CHANGES TO STUDENT GOVERNMENT FISCAL POLICIES AND CONDUCTING ITSELF RESPECTFULLY IN AN EMOTIONAL SESSION WITH SOUTH BEND OFFICIALS OVER THE RECENT AMENDMENT TO THE SOUTH BEND DISORDERLY HOUSE ORDINANCE. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Organization successful in response to student request 
By KATIE PERRY 
In Focus Writer 

Notre Damn's Student Union Board (SUB) charged into thn fall snmnstnr by dnlivnring big-narnn acts such as eonwdian Vince Vaughn and rock group B11tt11r than Ezra as part of its mission to satisfy student dmnand. 
SUB din~ctor .Jimmy Flaherty said orw of the group's main goals this yoar was to target its weaknessns and maintain iLo.; strnngths. 
"I fi1nl w11 canw a long way with tlw little things last ynar, and wn worn succnssl'ul. but this ytmr wo wantnd to crank it up a notch with biggnr ewnts whilo still eonlinuing to excel at tlw other nvonlo.;," lw said. 
Some of the "best student lnadnrs on campus" as well as a focused objectivn con­tributnd to SUB's success in the fall snmnster. Flaherty said, dting such events as Wnleorne Week, hypnotist Daln K, AcousliCafe and comodians at Legends. 
Flaherty said selection of the fall snmester's two enn­terpince shows -Vince Vaughn's "Wild Wnst" come­dy show in October and a Bnttnr than Ezra eoncert in Novnmber -was based dirnctly on surveys of student opinion. 
SUB  rncnives  l'endback  
about  ~~vnnts  through  its  
dorm  representatives.  

Flahnrty said this communi­cation between tho group and campus residenee halls is essential, as they are "at the heart of campus lili1." 
. . 
, 

As stated in the group's constitution, SUB seeks to "enhance under~-,rraduate stu­dent life" by providing soda!, intellectual and cultural opportunities that eorrelate with the needs and wants of the student body each year. 
"We work on behalf of [the students!. and at the end of last year we heard what they would really like is for big­name entertainers to come to Notre Dame," SUB program­mer Chris Lund said in a Nov. 22 Observer artide. 
Flaherty said he is "proud" the two larger events were near sellouts. Vaughn's com­edy show sold out almost immediately, as nearly 1, 900 students handnd over $30 to see the "Wedding Crashers" and "Dodgeball" star live on campus. Flaherty said more than 900 tiekets were sold in the first three hours of sales. 
Approximately 1,000 tick­ets were sold for the Dnc. 2 Better than Ezra concnrt. Like Vaughn's comedy show, the concert was held in the Stepan Center -a venue Lund called a "nice location" for big events. 
Flaherty said upeoming SUB events include the Collegiate Jazz Festival and the ND Literary Festival in February, which will feature "Friday Night Lights" author 
II.G. Bissinger. 
"There are really no big events on campus minus The Show, and we've alrnady had two in one semester," he said. "We're already gnlling to work on a big show for next semester." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 
GRADE: A­
SUB EFFECTIVELY BROUGHT TWO PROMINENT AND WELL­RECEIVED ACTS TO CAMPUS IN THE FIRST SEMESTER ALONE, AND IS CURRENTLY WORKING TOWARD REPEATING THIS SUCCESS IN THE SPRING TERM -BUT THERE IS ALWAYS ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT. 
• > ,• 
.·.··. ·.. '.·. \ ' ' \ ',I ~ 
page 6 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Monday, December 12, 2005 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 


Members prove more active, prolific than in past years 
Baron targets division within group as an issue, strives to increase cooperation between factions 

TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer Student body president Dave Baron encouraged faculty, students and rectors to disperse themselves evenly at meetings this fall. 
TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer 

Dillon Hall rector Father Paul Doyle speaks at a fall CLC meet­ing. The group fuses faculty, rector and student members. 


By MARY KATE MALONE In Focus Writer 

The Campus Life Council has passed five resolutions during the fall semester -a significant improvement from the zero passed under last year's CounciL 
Though division among mem­bers has not disappeared, stu­dent body president Dave Baron has breathed new life into a body that is student govern­ment's best attempt at merging the voices of faculty, rectors and students. 
At the start of the semester Baron said he would not tolerate division among Council mem­bers. Historically, rectors and faculty have gathered on one side of the discussion table and football pep rally admittance procedures with Joyce Center officials. The Council also smoothly passed the student aetivities fee increase resolution with a vote of 12-1. 
The Council's greatest strength is in its three task forces, whieh Baron created at the start of the semester. Each with a clearly defined purpose, the task forces are the fuel ol' the CLC. Without their initiatives, the Council would lack direetion. 
The social coneerns task force has topped the other three task forees and positioned itself as the backbone of the Council. It has delivered two resolutions to the CLC and consistently demon­strated progress from meeting to meeting. 
Chaired by Jacques Nguyen, 
students on the other, but B a r o n encouraged members to disperse themselves evenly. 
However, halfway into the school year, there continues to be a stubborn rift -not only physical­ly, but ideo­logically -at times affect­

ing the quality and effectiveness of its discussions. 
"We each represent different constituencies," Baron said. "It's a curse and a benefit. This is a great benefit, but it ean also hurt discussion when participants are only thinking about their own constituents." 
Most recently, a religious faith resolution was stalled in the Council after rectors and stu­dents failed to agree on the best way to provide faith information to non-Catholic students. 
The Council has managed to unite on some issues. Members provided solid feedback for Hall Presidents Council co-chair Dan Zenker as he worked to address 
Graduate Student Union works on new library computers, other goals 
New computers in the Hesburgh Library, progress on graduate student parking and col­laboration with the Student Affairs task force to evaluate graduate student life are among the accomplishments of the Graduate Student Union (GSU) this semester. 
The organization, which was founded in 1969, bears the majority of responsibilities and duties concerning graduate student life. 
"We try to meet the needs of grad students, whether they are medical, social, academic, or professional," GSU president Misty Schieberle said. "Our goal is to develop or supplement past programs and initiatives and also strive to get something more." 
One of the newest and most significant accomplishments of the Union has been the installation of the Medical Separation policy, which allows students to have an up to six week leave from academic duties under the ease of a "serious medieal eondition." 
The new policy is an alternative to the Graduate Student Leave of Absence policy, which only offers a leave for an extended amount of time. 
The GSU also helped devise a graduate stu­dent life survey that will assess the quality and issues of graduate student life. Sehieberle hopes this survey will generate results useful to the GSU's mission. 
"The administration and Student Affairs com­mittee have organized a task force that will survey the current status of graduate student life with the goal of funding future develop­ment," Schieberle said. "We've been working very much together with the task force on the survey and we think it will produce results we can use in the years to eome." 
The GSU consists of 39 departmental repre­sentatives, 12 committee chairs and elected officers. It represents graduate students in the College of Science, the College of Engineering and the College of Arts and Letters. These rep­resentatives bring matters of concern from their respective colleges to the GSU to weigh the issue and determine the best way to address it. 
"The chain of communication strives for rep­resentation from every department," Schieberle said. 
Next semester, the GSU is planning to host the regional National Assoeiation of Graduate and Professional Students (NAGPS) conference in the spring. 
Notre Dame will also send several graduate students to the national NAGPS conference in February, where they will meet with U.S. Representatives and partieipate in a day of lob­bying for legislation for those continuing in higher education, Sehieberle said. The pro­posed legislation would make graduate student stipends tax exempt, thus lessening post-eol­lege debt. 
-Maggie Hyde 

"We each represent different constituencies. It's a curse and a benefit. This is a great benefit, but it can also hurt discussion when participants are only thinking about their own constituents.,, 
Dave Baron student body president 
the task force has focused on its chief goals to address dorm dance themes and improve opportunities for non­Catholic stu­dents. It craft­ed and pre­sented a reso­lution on Nov. 7 to amend the Dorm Dance Manual to include regula­tions for 
appropriate themes and adver­tising for dances. It passed unanimously and received high praise from Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. 
The task force's second resolu­tion -calling for workshops to help hall staff address non­Catholic student needs -failed to pass in the Council and was sent back to the task force for further revision. The task force swiftly responded to concerns and revised a resolution that the Council passed two weeks later. 
The eampus grounds and struetures task force has shown scant visible progress. Though Baron hails this task force as a testament to the CLC's ability to unite with different campus organizations, its purpose and progress have been l'oggy throughout the semester. Still, the task force has been doing mueh of its work behind the scenes, and if it manages to fol­low through on its initiatives soon, its work has the potential to fulfill a signifieant void on campus. 

Campus ground and struc­tures has been pursuing three main initiatives: improving out­door recreational facilities in conjunction with Student Senate, beautifying grounds around dorms and other eampus build­ings in conjunction with the Rectors and addressing water drainage in the D6 parking lot. 
Task force ehair James Leito frequently reports to the Council about meetings with campus groups. But 16 weeks into the school year, Leito's task force needs to start stop diseussing and start delivering. 
The student voice and input task foree has not delivered a resolution but its goal is too long-term to warrant sueh a measure. The force spent the majority of the semester con­ducting extensive research on University groups and commit­tees. It has now narrowed that list to a few key committees that are Jacking student input. If it manages to create student seats on these committees in the eom­ing months, CLC's visibility will grow among students -who are vastly unaware of its exis­tenec. 
The Campus Life Couneil has benefited greatly from goal-ori­ented task forees, but Baron must continue to unite the highly varied interests of the CLC's members in order to facilitate more progressive discussion. The Couneil has the potential for a produetive spring if task forces like Leito's campus grounds and structures can start to provide visible results for Council mem­bers and students alike. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

Hall Presidents Council encourages events 
Notre Dame's dorm rivalries may be heated, but the presi­dents of the 27 dorms convene through Hall Presidents Council to discuss hall-specific events and simultaneously help each other with these events. 

HPC allocates money to these signature dorm events, such as the traditional Keough Chariot Race as well as the newer Welsh Family Block Party. 
The HPC is charged with plan­ning the student component of pep rallies, but HPC Co-Chair Dan Zenker and HPC Athletics Commissioners Justin Doyle and Jack Laseowitz took on another related task this semester ­dealing with the pep rally ticket distribution system, which the University ehanged in response to growing student demand and reports that some fans were turned away from the Michigan State pep rally. 
'fhis semester, IIPC Treasurers Catherine Mulhern and T.R. Eckler revamped HPC's financial system to make the process more eflicient and fair for all the dorms. 
Presidents receive help in coordinating events from the HPC eabinet, a group composed of former hall presidents, ehaired this year by Lindsey Ney and Zenker, both seniors. 
The cabinet's goal this year is "to increase the level of aware­ness of each hall president regarding valuable policies and opportunities around campus and within the Hall Presidents Council," Zenker said. 
This includes improving com­munication regarding campus events, funding opportunities, dorm events and dances, charity efforts and University guidelines. 
To do this, a new resource manual was created with useful information and guidelines for the presidents. 
HPC's goal for next semester, and what it hopes to continue in the future, is to find ways to improve the amount of knowl­edge that the presidents are given regarding their duties. 
HPC also hopes to create more unity between the dorms in order to liJster more joint efl'orts. 
-Ryan .'·)ydlik 








BCSwinwould end streak, criticism 
Fiesta, Orange, Independence, Gator, Fiesta, Gator, Insight. 
Colorado, Florida State, LSU, Georgia Tech, Oregon State, 
North Carolina State, Oregon State. 
With that list, one that dates back to the 1994 

Fiesta Bowl Heather 
when Notre Van Hoegarden Dame was dominated Sports Writer by Colorado 41-24, Irish coach Charlie Weis will not be short on ammunition when motivating his team between now and its Jan. 2 Fiesta Bowl matchup with Ohio State. 
"It will be mentioned," Weis said, grabbing his chest and jerking back with a smile when asked Saturday about Notre Dame's seven-game bowl los­ing streak. "It won't be history. It will be mentioned. Every day. Multiple times. It will be emphasized." 
As the Irish try to end the skid at the bowl that started it, Weis's players lind themselves fully aware of the strnak but doing their best to put it behind them. 
"We're in a BCS game, we want to win a BCS game," safe­ty Tom Zbikowski said. "We don't want to win because other teams couldn't accom­plish that in the past. We want to win because we want to win." 

Notre Dame (9-2) faces a team that had a very similar season in Ohio State (9-2). Both teams could easily be 11-0, with the Irish a 4th-and-9 stop and overtime loss away, and a 72-yard drive and a close loss separating the Buckeyes from 
a perfect record. 
But they're still playing a BCS game­Notre Dame's first in five years and Ohio State's third Fiesta Bowl in four years. For the Irish, who have come a long way since last year's 6-6 fmish, this is the game they more bowl game losing streak -just one win against a top­five team to end a season in which a 10-2 record sounds much better than 9-3. 
"You had a great year, now this is the game," Weis said. "This is the game that every­one is going to remember. You lose this game to Ohio State ... Everyone remembers that you lost the bowl game." 
There is no doubt this game is critical. And there is no telling what a win over Ohio State would do for this team and this program. 
And so the Irish must make a lasting impres­sion. For all those critics who said Notre Dame played an easy schedule, or for those who say the television­friendly Irish do not deserve to be in the BCS, despite earning 

need to win -not only to end this season on a positive note and reward its graduating sen­iors, but to make a statement for the future as well. 
If Notre Dame can find a way to contain Buckeye quarter­back Troy Smith and minimize the damage linebacker A.J. Hawk does on the defensive ehd, it will validate the 2005 season. 
The stamp of approval from the entire country rests on this game. Notre Dame doubters will have no choice but to admit the Irish are back if they win. 
No more blowout losses, no an automatic at~large berth, beating Ohio State is the way to prove them wrong. 

For fifth-year seniors like Brandon Hoyte, Mark LeVoir, Dan Stevenson and Corey Mays -who have seen Bob Davie· fail, George O'Leary come and go, Tyrone Willingham get the controversial axe and now Charlie Weis succeed -this bowl game will put the final stamp on their tenure at Notre Dame. When it was announced Dec. 4 that the Irish were going to the Fiesta Bowl, Boyte said he wants "to go out on top and feel as ifwe have left a mark on the Notre Dame program." 
Pick a reason the Irish want 
to win this game-from end­
ing the seven-game bowl losing 
streak, to putting the Irish back 
at the top of college football, to 
rewarding the seniors who 
have endured a tumultuous 
five years -there is no doubt ·this game is critical. 
And there is no telling what a 
win over Ohio State would do 
for this team and this program. 
"!This game] is huge," defen­
sive lineman Tnwor Laws said. 
"We're in the BCS bowls and to 
get a big win over one of the 
best teams in the country. it 
just sets us up for the run that 
we're going to make next 
year." 
But before the Irish players 
can make any type of run next 
season, their coach is likely to 
run his mouth in the next three 
weeks of practice. 
"I think it gives you a great 
opportunity to humiliate 
them," Weis said of the losing 
streak. "I think I'm really look­
ing forward to doing that. 
Those games are gone, there's 
nothing you can do about 
them. But I like that firepower 
going into practice everyday, 
[and) they will be hearing that 
on a regular basis for the next 
several weeks." 
The opinions expressed in 
this column are those ofthe 
author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Heather Van 
Hoegarden at 
hvanhoeg@nd. edu 
game hype 

CharlieWeis Irish head coach 
"We just want to do it the right way for the seniors and let them leave here with a· win. " 


Brady Quinn Irish quarterback 
"They are a classy team and a tough team. We can't wait to get out there to {Tempe]." 

"/ have a lot of respect for their defense. They're really good-those stats don't lie. " 

Victor Abiamiri Irish defensive end 
"You couldn't have scripted a better bowl game for me personally but also for our team." 


History books vvill add fifth chapter in ND-OSU dra111a 
Heisman winners, Four Horsemen members of series' storied contests 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 

It's just about a five-hour drive between South Bend, Ind. and Columbus, Ohio and the campuses housing two of the most celebrated programs in college football history. 
But only four times have Notre Dame and Ohio State met on the football field. And future schedules indicate the Irish and Buckeyes will not highly anticipated by players on both sides. 
It's a dream scenario for Irish quarterback Brady Quinn who grew up "about a 10­minute drive" from the Ohio State campus and whose older sister Laura dates Buckeyes middle linebacker A.J. Hawk. 
Ohio State center Nick Mangold also feels privileged to play in just the fifth matchup between the two schools since their first game over 70 seasons ago. 
"Notre Dame is a great pro­gram and playing in this game will be something special," Mangold said. "It will be another memory added to the list of the great things that 
have happened 
this season." 

be meeting any "'fa few things Looking back time soon after on the season,
turned out 
their Jan. 2 Mangold and his
different[ly] this 
Fiesta Bowl teammates could matchup in could be the be preparing to Tempe, Ariz. play the Irish not
national 
"How are we in the Fiesta
championship
going to fit it in?" Bowl, but in the Irish coach game. Rose Bowl for the Charlie Weis said national champi­Saturday when onship. Both
Nate Salley 
asked about the schools enter the
Buckeyes free safety 
possibility of contest at 9-2 
playing Ohio State in the future. "You don't even know somebody who's on your schedule seven years, eight years from now whether or not they're going to be good or not good, or whether you're going to be good or not good. That's why, instead of worry­ing about scheduling, I leave that to the powers that be, and I worry about playing." 
But the fact that the two teams will likely meet only in bowl games in the near future seems to make the game more 
and each came within seconds of toppling the two national title contenders, Southern California and Texas. 
. The Buckeyes fell at home to the Longhorns 25-22 on Sept. 10 and Notre Dame lost by a similarly slim margin, 34-31 against the Trojans in Notre Dame Stadium on Oct. 15. 
"If a few things turned out differentllyI this could be the national championship game," Buckeyes free safety Nate Salley said. 
A national championship­caliber game has not been unusual when the two pro­grams have met. 
The 1935 game was hyped as "The Game of the Century" by the press and saw Notre Dame rally from a 13-0 fourth quarter deficit to win 18-13 before more than 80,000 fans in Ohio Stadium. 
The next season the schools met again, with Elmer Layden of Four Horsemen fame coaching the Irish to a 7-2 win. 
The squads did not meet again until 1995, when the No. 7 Buckeyes stomped the No. 15 Irish 45-26 in Ohio Stadium. 
Ohio State running back Eddie George, who would go on to win that season's Heisman Trophy, ran over the Notre Dame defense for 207 yards and two touchdowns. 
The most recent meeting was a matchup of No. 5 Notre Dame against No. 4 Ohio State in 1996, with the Buckeyes winning 29-16. 
The loss came in Lou Holtz' final season as coach at Notre Dame, with the former Ohio State assistant coach finishing his career 0-2 against the Buckeyes. 
The teams' fifth contest could be the last between the two in a while, leaving Ohio State athletic director Gene Smith, a 1977 Notre Dame graduate, eager for the game. 
"[The Irish] are a team like The Ohio State University, with history, tradition and success," Smith said. "Let's rock and roll and get it done." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 





Tough enough to handle 
Why Brady Quinn is who he is and how he's evolved up to his stellar junior season 
Quinn's statistic~<; improved as he gained morn gamn experience, hut he won just nino of 21 games a'l a starter in his first two years under former eoaeh Tyrone Willingham. Though his numbers worn improv­ing, through his sophomorn sna'ion, the team wa'i not. 
Coming from a eompntitivo and athletic family -Brady played baseball, basketball and football into high sehool at Dublin-Collinan; his father Ty played basnball and wrestled; his younger sister Kelly plays soecer at Virginia; his older ~ister Laura played field hockey and softball and even modeled ­Quinn always has boon a perfec­tionist. 
"When we worn younger and we had catehes, he would throw it ­and obviously he h<L'i a really hard throw -and I could ncvor eateh it," Kelly Quinn said. "lln'd get so frustrated at me and say, 'Cateh the ball, Kelly."' 
Notre Dame's :-n-point losses to archrivals, then, did not sit wnll with a kid who had the most organ­iznd desk in his first gradn clw;s. 
"lie was always a very intnnsn ehild ... always a porf(~clionisl :.._ in any sporL'l he did, with his room, with his outliL'i," his motluw said. "Maybn he roln-modeled me a little bit." 
And every pnrl'netionist desires complete control over assigned tasks. Entnr Charlie Weis, and a system that gave Quinn the free­dom he wanted, the discipline he needed and his first dose look (9-2; last-second loss to undefeated USC) at what perli~elion in eollegn foot­ball means. 
Grownup 
Quinn controls most of Notre Dame's oll'ense at U10 linn of scrim­mage -at least he has the free­dom to. Weis has Immdates like <my eoach, but his major dmnand call'l for someone not wearing a hnad'iol on tho sidelines, Quinn, to take eon­lrol. 
"The quarterbaek has to be an extension of JWnisj out there on the field, <md whiln it's tough, I've got to be somewhat of an extension of what he wants in terms of loader­ship and making decisions as the quarterback," Quinn said. 
lli'i maturity and confidonce have contributed to nothing short of a Notre Damn offensive revival. 
In 2004, the Irish averaged 218 yards pnr game pa'ising. Quinn had 17 touchdowns to 10 interceptions, and' the ollfmsive line gave up 25 sacks. Now, as the 2005 season eoncludes, Notre Dame averages 334 yards passing and has given up only 16 sacks. Quinn's 32 touch­downs-to-seven intereeptions ratio already ha'i helped him capture thn Sammy Baugh Award -prnsentnd to college football's top passer by The Touchdown Club of Columbus, Ohio -and be nominated for a host of others. 
"He's more vocal in the huddle, taking charge and being more aggressive," said wide receiver Maurice Stovall, who has eaught 60 passes and 11 touchdowns from Quinn this season. "llis mental aspect of the game a'l far a'l wateh­ing film <md reading defensive eov­erages lha'i improved, also!." 
Quinn's statL'itirB have aeeumulat.­ed, the quarterback said, in part because WeL'l ha'i L!tught him a lot about erasing short-term memory and not dwelling on mL'itakes. And Quinn ha'l been able to reeeive that advice and apply it -no mattnr how harshly the eoaeh inst.rucL'i at times -because of hi'i mature atti­tude. 
"I think that Brady was maturn enough to realizn rogardless of the personality or if there had ever boen a personality mnlliet-whieh it sounds like !Brady and Weisl got along perleetly line -that Brady knew he WcL'i going to respect and appreciate what Coach Weis had to add and bring to thn table," his mother said. 
Quinn has endless and aetile observations about how he has lnarned from Weis beginning in spring praetien and continuing into his BCS bowl prnparation. 
"[This oiTensn I places a lot of responsibility on the quarterback, and it deal'i witl1 a lot more m<mt!tl things coming up to the linn of 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Hobin Quinn knows Nolro Dame mach Charlie Wnis plaens heavy rnsponsibilitios on his quartnrbaeks, so shn li).,''llrnd lwr son Brady would haw wnkonwd thn two yours to prnpar.-liw sur.h a disciplinnd and dmmnding olli-nsn. 
"I said, 'Anm't you glad you got Coarh Wnis your junior year?"' (}uinn's motlu~r n~callnd w;king her son. "Bm:ause I was thinking to mysnll' had lw bmm a l'roshman, just lX, g~•tting thn starling position, that would havo bonn overwhelm­ing liw him. 
"IBradyl goes, 'No, tlmt probably would havn bonn nasy !L'i a l'resh­man hoc:au'io that's all you know."' 
Tlw junior quartnrback's com­mont <·.ould makn Irish l'ans day­dnmm about what could have h<•<m. or it could explain why Wnis' ollims1~ 1hwdopnd so quil:kly and nl'lkil'nlly in IPss !.han a ynar with 1X­coremony in Nnw York City, his name's appearance on the ballot mado thn stahnnent -while Weis has been tho mastermind behind tho succnss, Quinn h<L'i bnnn iL'i cat­alyst. 
"I think that the suceess ol' our olli.Jnsn ean delinitely be pinpointed to the pro).,rrnss of Brady," Weis said. 
Quinn's path to prominenee ha'i been roeky at times, but always dnlibnrate. 
The big boys 
·nw Dublin. Ohio native ha'i benn able to deal wiU1 adversity at Notre Damn bm:ausll ho exporione11d sim­ilar athletic obstacles at a young age. 
When Quinn's Dublin Football League (I)FL) travel team played Gohanna in sixth ).,rrade, the opposi­tion ineludnd some seventh-, nighth-and even ninth-graders ­players who worn morn physically developed. 
"Brady W<L'i always a good-sized 
kid for his age, but 
not like these kids," 

lo 21-ynar old eol­his mothor said.
"lie was always a 
Jpgn kids. "Onn kid W<L'i proba­
very intense child 
At this limn last bly 6-fnet tall, 200 sPason, Quinn lh­... always a pounds." lilOI.-4, 2:~ I poundsI Quinn took a
perfectionist." 
was not thinking vidous hit that snnt IIPisman. And h.-no him ofr to the side­longN is this y1~ar, lines. llis uncle
Robin Quinn or so hn says. But mother David, a eoach at the 
following a eanHH' snw;on in whieh hn snl nunwrous Irish program n~cords, tho conlid1mt junior quar­ttwback h1L'i guinnd national atum­lion l'or !wing the arm ol' Notre Darm~·s n~surgnm:n 1.11 aBC"' bowl. 
l,.irsl-ynar mach Wnis hm; bmm thn liLcn. 
Wnis brought an oiTnnse that alroady had credibility from his thrnP Supnr Bowl wins with the N.-w l·:ngland Patriots. But l'or many douhtnrs, Quinn ha'i proven thP olli~ns11 can work at mon\ than <HlP loVI~I ol' lilOlhall, and that he ha'i ovnrylhing 1.11 do with why it doos. 
lin garrwrml snvnn lirst-place voh~s in Saturday's llnisrnan Trophy balloting aftPr throwing li1r 3,633 yards and :{2 t11uehdowns and shat­tnring almost ovnry Notro Dame pw;sing rm:ord in 2005. 
Fornwr Irish coach Lou Holtz said Quinn "rwwr llindwd" in his game-winning drivn at Stanford Nov. 26 in a :~x-:~ I win. 
"lit wasljusl ho-hum, another day at work," llolt.z said prior to tho Notrn Damn football banqud on l>m:.2. 
And though (}uinn did not. even rneeivo an invitation to Uw lloisman lime, madn a eom­
ment that stuck with Quinn's mothnr !L'i one of the most significant developments in her son's athlntic earner. 
"lie said, 'Brady, look. This is totally your decision, but there eomos a point in your Iii{~ when you play sporL'i whnrn them's a diller­enco bntwonn playing injured and playing hurt,"' his mother said. "'If you'rn hurl or your pride's hurt, and you think you can got back out there. do it. But if you feel like you've really got an injury, you should sit down."' 
Quinn shook his !wad, shook ofl' U1e hit and linislwd the gamfl. 
Fast forward to 20()3, his first start as a college quartorback on the road at Purdue -59 pa'ising attnmpL'i, four interceptions, only ono touchdown, one sack and a slow of hurries, knockdowns and hil'i. 
The raw talent showed, but the beating wa'i brutal. 
"I don't like to hear that word I Purdue I, every lime I think of that a'i a mom," his mother said. 
Quinn would have to live by hi'l undo's words lbr a while. Tho loss­os hurt. 


scrimmage and playing in thn game," Quinn said. "I learned that there was a lot morn to playing quartnrback in dill'nrnnl systems and in our particular ollims<! Uran I had rna.lized bnlhrn." 
But whilP Wds bnlinvns qwu·tt~r­baek recruiL'i should bo lining up lhr the ehanen to play lhr an NFI. ommsiw~ mind likn his, lw undl'r­sumds Quinn's va.lun <L'i morn than just a good listnnnr. 
In the e<L'in of Quinn's dnwlop­ment, it's not only what the ollimsl' has done for him, Wnis mnsist1mUy says. Notrn Damn's sw:eess is just a'l much alloul what Quinn dons li1r the ofl'ensn. 
Whether or not the lleisman Trophy voters reeognizn Quinn <L'i being worthy of a Nnw York City vL'iit, the junior knows his plan~ ­short of tlw ultimatn goal. 
"Everyone who is thnn~ I for tlw lleisman announc:enwntl is undl'­feated and playing in the national championship," Quinn said. "So it's hard to arguo that you should lw there when you'rn IJ-2 and playing in the Fiest!L Bowl, instead of lhP Hose Bowl." 
Even Weis, who coadws with a dmm~anor of rationality and tough love, had problnms with Quinn not rm:niving the inviW. But his quartnr­back h<L'i mme evnn lirrlhnr, to thn point at which hP is so realistic and poised and prnparnd liw d<'<:isions thrown his way-and abouln~rog­nizing tlw improvPIIIPilts still n~quirnd of him -that he mn han­diP anyU1ing. 
And if that doPsn 't work, hP mn always audible. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 



Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 



HEADT

CharlieWels head coach 

Charlie Weis first season at Notre Dame career record: 
9-2 

at Notre Dame: 
9-2 

against Ohio State: 0-0 
No. 
I 
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 23 24 25 26 26 27 27 28 29 30 31 32 32 33 
34 
35 35 36 37 
38 
39 40 

Roster 

Name Pos. HI. Wt. YR D.). Hord WR 6-1 198 FR Darius Walker RB 5-11 200 so Anthon~Vema~lia DB 6-3 221 so 
Rhema cKnig t WR 6-1 215 SR Ray Herring DB 6-0 199 FR Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 192 so Junior )abbie RB 6-0 188 so Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 203 )R Brady Quinn QB 6-4 231 )R David Grimes WR 6-0 170 FR Marty Mooney QB 6-2 207 SR 
QB 6-2 207 FR~:~71~1~:y QB 6-2 196 so Leo Perrine DB 6-0 186 so Rashon Powers-Neal RB 6-3 238 SR Geoffrey Price 6-3 186 )R
p Dan Gorski QB 6-3 196 FR Chinedum Ndukwe DB 6-2 219 JR D.). Fitzpatrick K/P 6-2 206 SR Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 188 so Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 222 SR Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 197 JR Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 203 JR 
W. David Williams DB 5-10 170 so Brandon Erickson WR 6-0 178 so Nate Schiccatano DL 6-2 237 SR Wade lams DB 5-9 188 so Travis Thomas RB 6-0 215 JR David Bruton DB 6-2 187 FR John Lyons RB 6-1 205 JR Kyle McCarthy DB 6-0 189 FR 
DB 5-9 190 JR
~~:o~~=~~';:on DB 5-11 193 SR 
Jake Carney DB 6-0 187 SR jeff jenkins RB 6-0 232 SR Alvin Reynolds Jr. DB 5-10 180 so justin Hoskins RB 5-10 186 so Tommie Lee DB 6-2 200 JR Ashley McConnell RB 6-0 247 JR Tim Kenney DB 6-0 180 )R Brandon Harris DB 6-0 198 SR Matt Mitchell DB 5-8 187 SR Nick Possley WR 6-1 183 so Brandon Hoyte LB 6-0 236 SR Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 220 so 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 2005 Schedule 
~ 


Sept. 3 Sept. 10 Sept. 17 Sept. 24 Oct. 1 Oct. 15 Oct. 22 Nov. 5 Nov. 12 Nov.19 Nov. 26 
CORNERSACK 
6-llv..,.tl 
2-Jenklns

at Pittsburgh -W 
p·~;''
\

at Michigan -W 
/) 
I l 

MICHIGAN ST. -L 
-~ 

at Washington -W 
~.

at Purdue-W 
,lr~ FREE 
it~;;; 
~ 
32-Mitcbell
USC-L 
"/) 

BYU-W TENNESSEE -W 
3-0'Ncal 

NAVY-W SYRACUSE-W 
_.Q..

at Stanford -W 
ft!l't 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
41 Scott Smith LB 6-3 234 FR 
LLI

42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 231 FR 43 Anthon?, Salvador LB 6-2 233 SR 
:E 

44 Asalth chwapp RB 6-0 250 FR 
<

45 Car Gioia K 5-10 183 JR 45 Rich Whitney DB 6-2 213 JR 
Q 

46 Co'&; Mays LB 6-1 234 SR 47 Mit ell Thomas LB 6-3 240 JR 
LLI 

48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 220 )R 
a:: 

49 Matt Augustyn FB 6-3 220 JR 
..... 

50 Dan Santucci OL 6-4 290 SR 
0

52 joe Brockington LB 6-1 212 JR 53 joseph Boland LB 6-2 242 SR 
z 54 David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 293 SR 56 Nick Borseti LB 6-4 238 JR 57 DL 6-2 252 )R
~j~f~;~dahenson

58 LB 6-1 220 so 59 James Bent OL 6-2 265 SR 60 Casey Cullen DL 6-1 238 JR 61 ).).jansen LS 6-3 242 so 62 Scott Raridon OL 6-7 304 SR 63 )effTisak OL 6-3 305 FR 66 Derek Landri DL 6-3 263 SR 68 ~an Harris OL 6-5 288 JR 69 eil Kennedy DL 5-11 260 SR 71 james Bonelli OL 6-5 280 SR 72 Paul Duncan OL 6-7 292 FR 73 Mark LeVoir OL 6-7 311 SR 74 Dan Stevenson OL 6-6 292 SR 75 Chris Frome DL 6-5 268 SR 76 Bob Morton OL 6-4 292 SR 77 Michael Turkovich · OL 6-6 290 FR 78 john Sullivan OL 6-4 298 JR 79 Brian Mattes OL 6-6 285 SR 81 Rob Woods WR 6-2 208 SR 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-0 172 SR 83 Jeff Samardzija WR 6-5 216 JR 84 Michael O'Hara WR 5-10 180 SR 85 TE 6-4 253 FR 86 t"'~e'i!~!~co TE 6-5 245 so 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-3 245 SR 88 Anthony Fasano TE 6-5 255 SR 89 John Carlson TE 6-5. 255 SR 90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-3 294 SR 91 Craig Cardillo K 6-0 174 JR 92 Derrell Hand DL 6-3 301 FR 93 Dan Chervanick DL 6-1 259 SR 94 justin Brown DL 6-3 247 so 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-4 260 JR 96 Bobby Renkes K 6-0 195 JR 96 Pat Kuntz DL 6-2 267 FR 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-1 293 JR 99 Ronald Talley DL 6-4 261 so 



Charlie Weis has manufac­tured an Irish offense aver­aging 489.1 yards per game, an improvement of 143.6 yards over last season. He is 9-2 in his first Notre Dame season. Weis has coached in  Brady Quinn finished fourth in the Heisman ballot­ing after throwing for 3,633 yards, 32 touchdowns and only seven interceptions. He has hit 64.9 percent of his passes and led Notre Dame  Darius Walker and Travis Thomas have 300 combined carries for the Irish this season and have teamed for 11 TDs. Walker rushed for 1,181 yards for an average of 4. 7 per  The lrish are No. 4 in the nation in passing offense as wide receivers Maurice Stovall and Jeff Samardzija both have over 1,000 yards this season. Samardzija caught 15  
five Super Bowls with the Patriots and Giants as well as the liberty Bowl and Gator Bowl with South Carolina.  to a 9-2 season in 2005 after the Irish turned in records of 5-7 and 6-6 in his first two seasons as a starter.  carry. Rashon Powers­Neal will not play for the Irish at fullback in the Fiesta Bowl.  touchdowns and was a finalist for the Biletnikoff Award, given to the nation's top receiver.  
Jim Tressel captured the national title in 2002, his second season at Ohio State after leading Youngstown State to four Division 1-AA national crowns in 15 seasons.  Troy Smith grabbed the starting job from Justin Zwick after the Buckeyes' loss to Texas on Sept. 10. He has thrown for 1,940 yards and 14 touchdowns  Ohio State has the No. 1 rushing defense in the country, led by All­American linebacker A.J. Hawk. He has 109 tackles and two forced fumbles in 2005 as the Buckeyes are  The Buckeye secondary boasts three players on the all-Big Ten first team in cornerback Ashton Youboty and safeties Donte Whitner and Nate Salley. Whitner has two  
This is the third time in four seasons he has led the Buckeyes to the Fiesta Bowl.  along with running for 640 yards and 11 scores, and has an 8-1 record as a starter.  giving up just 7 4.5 yards per game and 2.4 yards per carry, and only nine TDs on the ground.  interceptions as Ohio State has allowed just 200.8 yards passing per game and only eight TDs.  
Weis has surprised many this season by putting the Irish in a BCS bowl game  Smith's ability to run and pass is an asset for Ohio State and he has led  Notre Dame played superb in iis last game against Stanford as  Quinn will be challenged throwing over the tall and talented Ohio State corners.  
sooner than,~!>t; expected. If·;~.  the Buckeyes to an unbeaten record on the road. However, Quinn is one of the top passer$ in  Walker ran 194 yards ag~.~~ · .,_,But ~ -.. ;~~~1  But Samardzija and Stovall are bigger than anyone in the Buckeyes' secondary and could add to their  
m' is one of e best in :tb.e game and his experierlce  the nation and his ability< to lead the Irish in close';~ ~ames was demonstr~fed  lta an eammat•s ti~.Ve the potential 'to  impressive touchdown totals this season if the Notre Dame offensive line gives  
tnunps Weis' play-calling.  in the ~!ose Stanfo~.fin·  dominate the Irish.  Quirul time to make .aplay.  



FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 21 Ohio State 24 Ohio State 20 
Pat Leonard 

Managing Editor 

Hoegarden 
AME 

Mike Gllloon 
Sports Editor 





HEAD 
Ohio State Buckeyes 
OHIO STATE 2005 Schedule 

Sept. 3 Sept. 10 Sept. 17 Sept. 24 Oct. 8 Oct. 15 Oct. 22 Oct. 29 Nov. 5 Nov. 12 Nov.19 

BUCKEYES RUSHING 
No1r1i · Damn's run defimsn has bmm solid all season. Thn Irish are allowing 119.4 rushing yards p<~r game and have given up 1 H touchdowns on the ).,'Tound. Excluding USC's Heggie Bush, the Irish hnld strong running backs in ehnek, including ltmmmatl~ LnnDa.lc White. 
Antonio Pittman has six 100-yard rushing games this season, giving him a total of 1,195 yards and six touchdowns. lie leads the team with a 10H.6 yards per ganw average. Smith is dangerous with his logs w; well. avera1,ring 
4.4 yards per carry and · 54.5 yards pnr game. 
A mobile quarterback to go along with a solid 1,000-yard running baek will be difJlcult for the Irish to eontflnd with, oven thotigh tMy bave bnen impressive ·agabJSt the run this season. If Notre Dame can make Ohio State one­dtmensional, it will be an: easier game. 

BUCKEYES PASSING 
Thn Irish sncondary is the least experienced of any unit on the team and is surrendering 257.5 yards passing per game this season. Strong safe­ty Tom Zbikowski might be the hardest hitter on the team and leads Notre Dame with five intnreeptions. 
Santonin Holmes and Ted Ginn, .Jr. have caught a combined 13 TDs and their speed has helped raek up 1 ,4H9 yards for the Buckeyes. Tight end Anthony Gonzalez has 27 eatehns for 358 yards and three touchdowns while Pittman averages 10.3 yards per reception. 
Notre Dame's defen­sive secondary isn't special, but neither is Ohio State's P?Ssing attack, Holmes and Ginn are a decent one­two pun~h·. but thn h''i'J have combined for only 300 more yards than Samardzija and two fewer touchdowns. 
SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
Irish kieker D.J. 
Notre Dame has all the 
Fitzpatrick struggled in 
reasons to be fired up fbr 
z
Notre Dame's final regular 
this game. The Irish have 
0
season game at Stanford. 
not won a bowl game 
-t 
The senior missed a field 
since the 1993 season. 
::a 
I'T1
goal and an extra point 
Weis has exceeded all 
against tlu1 Cardinal. and is 
expectations this season in 
c 
11-ol~ 17 on the season with 
his first year with the 
l> 
a long of 48 yards. 
Irish, and there would be 
3: 
I'T1
no better ending to it than
Zbikowski has returned two 
punts fbr touehdown<>. 
a BCS bowl win. 

Tedd Ginn, .Jr. averages 
Ohio State has been to 
28.6 yards per kick 
the Fiesta Bowl three 
return even though he is 
times in the last four 
years. Like the Irish, the
one of the top receivers 
for the Buckeyes. lie has 
Buckeyes are a two-loss 
returned two kicks (one 
team -falling to Texas 
kick, one puint) for 
and Penn State. The 
scores this season. The 
Buckeyes know that a 
punt team holds its 
convincing win would be 
opponents to under six 
the best way to silence 

yards per return. 
the Irish faithful. 

Zbikowksi is a fearless 
Notre Dame has morn 
punt returner, but 
to gain by winning this 
Fitzpatrick's struggles at 
game than Ohio State. 
Stanford ~"of.concern. If 
The Buckeyes won the 
national championship
hlil. is. healthy, the Irish will 
three seasons ago, and
be: in; :much better Shitpe. 
have been BCS-quality
Ginn~s punt returns should 
give Ohio State decent 
for the last few seasons. 
licld position and the I~!) 
The Irish are now just 

need to prevent him frorri 
taking back the national 
making big plays. 
aura they once had. 
MIAMI (OH} -W TEXAS-L SAN DIEGO ST. -W IOWA-W at Penn State-L MICHIGAN STATE -W at Indiana -W at Minnesota-W ILLINOIS-W NORTHWESTERN -W at Michigan -W 

Ohio State 
Buckeyes Record: 9-2 
AP: 7 Coaches: 7 

Jim Tressel Fifth season at Ohio State career record: 49-13 at Ohio State: 49-13 


against Notre Jim Tressel Dame: 0-0 head coach 
Roster  
No.122345567 8 9 9 101112131314 141515161617181819192020212324242526293032333334 3435 35 36 3637383941414243 44464748494950505152 5455 5657 5859616263 6465 6667 686971 7273747576 777878 7980RlRl8283 84 848585R6878788 R99091929293949596969798 99  Name Pos. Marcus Frc(•mtm LBErik Haw RB MillcolmJenkins CB kamario 'Nl•al s antonio Holmes SE Mikt• D'Andrea l.BAlbt•rt Du kc• WR:glt>rEwn•ll CBcd Ginn Jr. Fl.Roy Hall SE Drinte Whitner ssB"'nt Ullery WRTroo,Smith An o~ GonzaiC>z R~Justin wick Andn•Amos 8g Ben Kacsandi QB Brian JJ.utlim• WR Antonio Smith FSA.). TraP.asso I'Kyle Ruhl WR Trever Robinson LBRob Schocnhoft Todd BoeckmanDavid Lisko ~~{Devon l.yons WRDerek Harden WRBrandon Underwood CBDonald Washington DBAaron Pcttrey KNate Salley FS l[.sh Huston PK l';]ik~~R~x,~~ CB Antonio Pittman TBAshton Youboty CBShaun Lane TBSirio Wt•lrh FSBrandon Mitchell FSkmes Laurinailis LB x•Gantz RB 1ssM~bu~J;: W'ells TB ~an Franzingcr FBck Patterson DB Matt Daniels FJICurt Lukens ssAnderson Russdl DB Austin SJ::tler LB Michael o~lwrty DBDB~~~~e~atti~!~: PKI.Bg~~~Jl~a~~~it~kl'f FB Curtis Tl·rry I.BChad llnnolt•r LB A~. Hawk LBl} n TI1oma I' iontt.' }llhnson FB ~an Lukens I.B mg Oatish OG Vernon Gholston DLAnthony Schleg<•l I.B ~1nKerr I.BIer WhaieX OL <.:o:~i~~~K1a~ridis [$Mike Kudla DE Drew Norman 1-~ ~hnConn1y OGatt Drummclsmith L~ Harrison 1111 IB Ben Pl•rson OG pm Cordle OL )oug Ebner 01. Andn•w Most•s OL ~leMilchum tx;mSchafcr OTAndree Tyn'l' OG Steve Retiring OTT.J. Downing (,X; StevL• Winner cKirk Barton OT Alt.•x Hoonl' OT Drew Parry OL Rob Sims OT Alex Bnrrow DEDaniel Dye OL ~m Skinner OT r.an Hamby TE ~.CoiL•man TF arccl Fn>st TE Devin Jordan SEWill Crall TE Doug Worthington DE Evan {ablonka I' Ryan >!'lltorius K Brian Robiskil' WR Dan Potokar WR Lawrcncl• Wilson DE Brandon Smith TERory Nicol TFStan White Jr. FBQuinn Pitcock DTRyan Williams DEBn>tt Daly DL DL~~~~g~~H:t; DT MarcusGn_oen DT Sian Cotton DT ~rdan HOt•wischt•r TE uan Gamier DL avid Patterson Dl.joel Penton DL ay Richardson DE  Ill.6·21>-l1>-1h-I5-116-36-15-116-o6-35-116-06-16-0 h-46-16-11>-3 5-96-16-1 6-0 6-66-56-l h-4h-I1>-26-16-16-26-16-25-115-116-15-10 6-06-36-36-06-25-106-11>-25-76-36-06-35-115-95-ll6-36-26-26-36-16-16-0t\-01>-5 h-4h-I6-l6-1 6-46-11>-36-01>-36-46-3 h-4 h-5 h-46-31>-66-56-36-86-56-66-76-86-2 h-4 h-46-36-56-56-56-56-21>-36-76-05-106-36-06-66-36-51>-36-36-66-76-36-56-3 h-46-4 h-46-36-5 6-6  WI. 2102121110180IYO24H I'll)202175240205203215195225180210180195220 !54220225235220214215170185IR4220195165185195188180185205231205202190 25021020521519022R200170 \56255250220240240190 250 2.10295260 2_<;J246270290225265 2.10295205 2.10315275285267295290290329305 300329315295310255271 300255285255205263250195190190170 225240260242295245 225265 300305315250330285290276  YR soFRFl{FR ~~ l'RSR so ~) ~) ~~{FRFRjR'RFR soFRFRFR so soFRFRFRSRSRFR ~)jR'R so ~~ FRSRFR soFRFR soFR FRI'R soFRSRSR so soSRFR soFR ~ SR ~~ SR soSR ~~ FRv{'RFR Fl{ FJ{ FR ~~{so ~~{soFRI'RSRrR sorRSR ~)so FRFRFRFRFRFR FRFR so Rr'R so FRFR SR so so so ~~  


A.J. Hawk might date Laura Quinn, but he will get no love from her younger brother in the Fiesta Bowl. Brady Quinn lights up the Buckeyes for 300-plus yards and Charlie Weis foregoes the 


Irish Irish
rushing game as he uses Jeff Samardzija and Maurice Stovall to pick apart the Ohio State sec­ondary. The Irish prove they belong in the BCS in 
a higher-scoring game than most expect. 

experts experts 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 37 Ohio State 30 

Sizing up the Irish and the Bucks 

AVERAGE PER GAME 

total yards gained 
total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 
yards per punt punts blocked (total) 

total points scored total points allowed 
Notre Dame yards penalized Tennessee yards penalized 

NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE 
vs 


OHIO STATE'S DEFENSE 

OHIO STATE'S OFFENSE 
vs 


NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 








-.....-·-----'1=5~4.=-c.Jsl 
~· .· 334.31 

-·1·1:1 
~ 
• 


39.51 

~mmm= 38.21
~,------------'~ 
NOTRE DAME 
PASS OFFENSE 
Notre Dame's pass offense is No. 4 in the country behind Texas Tech, ··Hawaii and Arizona State. Quarterback Brady Quinn is one big game (377 yards) away from a 4.000-yard season, and he has alreadv thrown for 32 touchdowns com­pared to seven intercep­tions. Receivers Jeff Samardzija and Maurice Stovall are tough to defend. 
The Irish will be chal­lenged by an extremely tough Buckeyes defense led by Lombardi award winner A.J. Hawk. Quinn will need to get it going, especially if the Irish struggle running the football. 
OHIO STATE 
SECONDARY 
6-f(lot-1 junior eorner 
back Ashton Youboty anchors a secondary that ·will be a tough test for Notre Dame. Ohio State is giving up 200.R · yards a game through the air and has allowed just eight touchdowns 
this sea..'ion. 
Throe of four mem­
bers of the All-Big Ten 
secondary are from Ohio 
State -Youboty, Donte 
Whitner and Brandon 
Mitehell. 
The Buckeyes have 
seen top quarterbacks 
already this season. 
They picked ofT Texas' 
Vince Young twice in 
September and held 
Penn State's Michael 
Robinson to 78 yards 
passing in October. 




Buckeyes will be tough nut to crack for Irish 
Ohio State surrenders fewer than 15 points agame this season 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
With finals week nearing fast, Irish defensive end Vietor Abiamiri hadn't had time to study tape of Ohio State before Saturday's bowl media day. But the few ehanees he had this sea­son to see the Buekeyes play on TV were enough to let him know Notre Dame will be tested in next month's Fiesta Bowl. 
"They're a good team," Abiamiri said. "We'll have to save our best game for them." 
The Buckeyes have impressed Abiamiri and the Irish this sea­son with an offense led by multi­skilled quarterback Troy Smith and a defense featuring Lombardi Award-winning line­backer A.J. llawk. 
Giving up just 14.8 points per game, Hawk headlines a group of linebaekers regarded by many as one of the best in the nation. Anthony Schlegel is second on the team with 7 5 tackles to Hawk's 109. Bobby Carpenter oecupies the third linebacker spot and has 49 tackles as well as a team-leading eight saeks. 
"Their linebaekers jump out at. me, I think," Notre Dame run­ning back Darius Walker said. "Players like A.J. Hawk, players who have had incredible seasons and even had incredible careers ... at that position. We haven't had a whole bunch of time to look at them on tape ... but just from watching them on TV ... you ean definitely see they really have a dominant defense that's keying in on stopping the run." 
Walker and the Irish rushing attack are averaging 3. 7 yards per carry this season. But the Buckeyes have held opponents to 
2.4 yards per carry, nine total rushing touchdowns and a sti­fling 74.5 yards per game. The play of the defense has been solid enough for Ohio State to place five defenders on the all­Big Ten first team, as conference defensive player of the year Hawk is joined by defensive end Mike Kudla, free safety Nate Salley, strong safety Dante Whitner and cornerback Ashton Youboty. Carpenter was selected to the second team along with defensive lineman Quinn Pitcock. 
These statistics and accolades have certainly been noticed by Irish offensive guard Dan Stevenson, who acknowledges Hawk as the catalyst of the nation's No. 4 total defense. (Notre Dame finished the regular season ranked No. 10 in total offense.) 
"Wherever [Hawk] is on the field, or whatever you try to do, he's always there," Stevenson said. "He has a natural path to the ball. He's a great player, along with the whole defense. They all kind of feed off eaeh other." 
While the Buckeyes' rush defense is one of the top units in Ameriea, their defensive back­field has given opposing quarter­backs problems all season, tally­ing six interceptions and giving up just 200.8 passing yards per game. 
One striking feature of Ohio State's secondary is its height. The three first-team all-confer­ence honorees -Salley, Whitner and Youboty -are listed at 6­foot-3, 5-foot-11 and 6-foot-l respectively. The other starter, freshman cornerback Michael Jenkins, is 6-foot-l. Meanwhile, Notre Dame's two leading receivers -Jeff Samardzija and Mauriee Stovall -are both listed at 6-foot-5. 
The extra few inches, especial­ly with Salley, could test an Irish reeeiving corps that has tallied 
334.3 yards per game and 32 total touchdown receptions this season. 
But Whitner is the only Buckeye with more than one interception, racking up two this season including one for a touch­down. 
While the Ohio State. defense gets much of the media attention for its outstanding play, Smith and the offense have played their way to a No. 29 ranking in pass­ing offense. Santonio Holmes and Ted Ginn, Jr. lead the Buckeyes with 853 and 636 yards receiving respectively. Ginn espeeially wor­ries the Irish, as the 6-foot soph­omore averages 14.8 yards per reception and has scored a touchdown returning both a punt and a kick. · 
"[Ginn's] speed is the biggest thing you see," Notre Dame strong safety Tom Zbikowski said. "He'll just run past guys like it's nothing. He's a playmak­er, kind of like !USC's! Reggie [Bush]. When he hits a gap there aren't too many people that are faster than him in the country." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


Can't start a fire without a spark 
ble presnnee as a blocker at the
fersL:y-born Weis and 
linn of serimmagn. So this year, all eyes were on
Fasano meshed well 
Fasano to snn what he could dofrom the beginning in Wois's new offense -and 
Fasano has rospondnd. Thniugh 
11 gamns, hn has 45 receptions
l\y HEATHER 
for 564 yards and two toueh­
VAN HOEGARDEN 
downs. third on tho Irish to only
Spom Wri ll'r 
wido receivers JniT Samardzija and Maurice Stovall. Wnis called No words wnrn nnndPd -Nnw him 01111 of Notre Dame's most .lnrsny natiws C:harlin Wois and eonsistnnt playnrs this snason Anthony Fasano krww naeh boeause of not only his pass­otlwr from day orw. catching abilities, but his block­
"I think WI' wnrP in stn~tching ing as well. for <liW of llw early morning "I think that his goal nvery workouts, and IW1dsl said, 'A gamn starts with being able to hunch of tlwsn guys an~ in <~ul­dominat/1 on tho line of serim­t.urn shock, t.Jwy don't. know what rnagn as a blocker, bceause his t.lwy'rp getting into with mn,"' No. 1 job is to be an extension of 1:asano said of tlw first-year tho oll'nnsivn linn," Weis said of !wad <'oach. "And I said. 'Ah. I tlw senior. "Obviously, nvery tight know what I'm gntting into.' lin's nnd wants to bn running routes likl', 'I know you do. but. I think and catd1ing balls. 1\vnry skill thnsn guys an~ in culturn shock.'" player wants the ball in his 
Tlw nnw !wad coach and snn­hands. Well, you better be able to ior tight nml instantly fnlt com­block at lnast in this ofl'nnse, fort.ahlP around nach ot.hnr. b<H~ause this olTonse isn't one l-'ltsano, a VPromt. Nnw Jnrsny whnrn the tight nnds dntach all nativn, was natural for Wnis to over the plaeo and just run rnlatP to. routns as a rneeiver. It all starts 
"Tiwrn arn cnrtain guys that, with having the run-pass throat. walking in tlw door. wnrP nasy to And I think Anthony's bnen one talk to," Wnis said. "For rnn. or. our mos.~ consistent playnrs htsano was onP of them. !Safnt.y th1s season. Toml Zbikowski was orw of Fasano said although hn loves tlwrn. Tlwsn guys worn just nasy catc.hing tho ball, hn gets just as for 1111' to talk to hm~ausn I don't much satisfaction from springing PVPn have to say anything to running back Darius Walknr fren tlwm and tlwy know what I'm with a block as from catching a saying. I just. givn tlwm onn of my pass. looks. I don't nvnn have to say it, "I think bncausn I worry about tlwy alrPady know what that how the team views me, not so mnans. much about the media and the 
"Sonw of thnsn guys had to stats. II don't worry about catch­asked Brady if we were still dismay of his parents -or just dedsion after t.lw bowl." learn what those looks meant. ing evMy pass]." Fasano said. going to run it, so I was prntty their credit eard. The senior is making no prom­hut Anthony was one when~ I "So I takn pridn in blocking. I get excited...! think it just showed "I caught that disease lgolf'l ises nitlwr way. lin said lw will didn't have to say." nxcited whon Darius springs a the charaeter of our coaching this summer," Fasano said. "My do what he wants, but at a cc~r­
W1~is, a Tnmton. Nnw Jersey long run and I was the cause of stall' and our players." parents' credit eard didn't like it tain point, it beeomns a busirwss nativn, said that to Fasano, hn that. I think that's just as too much, but I looked at it as a dneision. was just anothnr guy from New rewarding." A true competitor little loan. So I caught the golf' "I know that if you're any­.Jnrsny. It is no secret that Fasano, who bug.'' whnrn from thn !draft's! third or 
"lin's snnn nw 1.000 times," Pass right won 12 letters in high school. is the second day tlwn I think I'd Wnis said. "lin knows 1,000 But one of Fasano's most mem­athletic. llis leap over tho A future of green pla~. a }ot morn 01~ wl~~lt I w~!l~ ~o Charlin W1~isns, wlwrnas a lot of orable plays this ymtr came on a Washington defender demon­And if Fasano keeps playing do, l•asano s<ud. But rl rt s thesn guys, tlwy only know one." reception against Washington on strated that. But with this athleti­the way he has this season, he more the top part, tlwn I think 
And li1r Fasano, his nnw head Sept. 24. The Irish were backed cism comes a competitive desire. may not have to borrow mueh it's morn of' a businoss dndsion madr was onn with whom he Iilii. up at their own !-yard line for Last spring Fasano took up golf' more money from his parents. and what you have to do for an imnwdiatn eonnnetion. their tirst ol'f'nnsive play of' tho after his father started playing Although he has one year of eli­yourself and your family in tlw 
"It's something that attitude, game, a play that Weis had and telling his son he could win. gibility remaining, tho senior, future." that New Jnrsny-type attitudn, a promisod to 1 0-year old Montana It didn't take long for the son to who will graduate in May with a And as serious as Fasano is littln swaggnr, a little ehip on Mazurkinwiez would be a pass to eatch up. degree in marketing, may decide about football and golf. his room­your shouldnr. a littln sarcasm," thn right. Mazurkiewicz, a huge "My dad started playing, and to declare for the NFL draft. lie mate Quinn says he's really not hn said. "I think it's what pooplo Notre Dame fan who had an being competitive, r always said he will talk to Weis, his fam­how he appears. had to gd usnd to, but something inoperable brain tumor, passfld wanted to beat him," said ily and players who have electnd "lie's a funny guy," Quinn said. I could n~latn to." away on the Friday before the Fasano, whose best round is an to leave with one year remaining "It's funny seeing him talk to all 
game, but Weis kept his promise. 88. "About the third time we (Justin Tuck, Jefl' Faine) as well you guys in an interview bneauso New coach, new offense Irish quarterback Brady Quinn went out, I was beating him as those who decided to come he gets this look on his f'arP 
It was no snernt coming into ran the play-action pass and already, and I haven't lost sinee. I back for a fifth year (Mark where iL'> all serious. lin really is this snason that Fasano was one found Fasano. lie leapt over a know he's struggling with th<it, LeVoir, Dan Stevenson) in mak­a goofball. I lovn bning around of Notrn Damn's best players. defender for a 13-yard gain, and but it's just to prove a point that ing his choice. that kid. I don't know why lw l.ast yoar ho was second on the Mazurkiewicz's play call had the young kid's still got some­"I think those are the best geL<> so uptight around evnryonn tnarn with 27 catchns for 367 worked. thing." resources I ean use," Fasano else.'' yards and four touchdowns. and "We knew a couple days lead­I Ie said he bought a new set of said. 'Tm just going to weigh all Well, nxeept around Wois. was om~ of the-Irish's most reli­ing up to it what the situation dubs this summer and played as my options and see what deci­ahln rn<~nivers. I lis 6-foot-5, 255-was with Montana," Fasano said. much as he could when he was sion is going to be best for me Contact Heather Van Hoegarden pound framn was also a limnida-"Wn got in tho huddle and I home in New Jersey, much to the and my family and make the at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Left, Irish tight end Anthony Fasano turns upfield against Southern California on Oct_ 15-Middle, Fasano celebrates after a 17-10 win over Michigan at the Big House on Sept. 10. Right, Fasano lines up against Tennessee on Nov. 5. Fasano has 45 receptions and 564 yards to go with his two scores this season_ 
. . 
. . . . . . . . . . 
.. 

. . . . •' I • to. 41 •• t';;;;; ' ' 
\'' . ' .
·,. . ..... 
• ·',•' o o' o o I • 
Monday, December 12, 2005 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 7 
fACULTY SENATE 

Thorough, thoughtful agenda suggests future success 

Discussion on the issues has adequately.
By MARY KATE MALONE 
been thorough and professors Members of the Student In Focus Writer 
havo addnd solid fnedbar.k at Affairs committee, a subgroup thnir meetings. Still, the prob­within the Faculty Senate, The Notrn Dame Faeulty lems that have been raised decided early in the year that St>tHtlt> has l'ngaged in thorough could provn difficult to con­thny wanted to address the usn discussion on a wide variety of cretely idnnlify and even morn of the word "sucks" at Notre issuns this smnnstnr. creating a challenging to solve. Dame basketball games, and lot'ly and lengthy agenda that, if The Senate is buoyed by com­spoeil'ically target tho arlod upon in tlw spring smnes­potent faculty members who Leprechaun Lngion for encour­tPr. l'ould wap sorious lwnnlils fned thoughtful discourse at aging tho diction. But without for prof1~ssors and students their monthly meetings. But the inviting students to their meet­alikP. lwctic nature of a professor's ings, the commiltne will be 
Hising lwalth cam costs, aca­dutins at Notre Damn has knpl unabln to fairly and fully dnrnk frnPdorn issuns and high mnmbnrs from stepping for­respond to the problem. Univnrsity ollin~rs' election pro­ward and seriously tackling tho The Senate has kept an eye l'Pdures havP fueled intense issues they have readily dis­on various ad-hoc groups that dnhatn at this fall's Faculty ~~ uss1~d in their mne lings. have been working on year-old Senate nwntings. Discussion must lead to action issuos like leaching evaluation eager Provost about budgetary of their due pay. 
Chain~d by Seth Brown, tho -and action will only bP taken procedures for promotion and problems, the need for a morn The Faculty Senate is lwavy Snnatn has nstablishnd thrnn by faculty who have thn time tenure at the University. It has interdiseiplinary academic on discussion but light on fol­key arnas to nxplorn in thn snc­and willingnnss to do so. also been exploring an initiative approach and the University's low-through. Sinen it only moots ond sernnstnr: aeadmnil: freo­Tho Senate has made a eon­to provide students with commitment to undergraduate once a month and is cornposod dorn, proemlurns for elncting COI'tnd nll'ort to invite visitors to teacher evaluations when education. Members have dis­of ol'tnn overworked fanllty high University officers and its meetings -including choosing courses. The Senate cussed academic freedom at mmnbers, it is not fair to nxpncl salary and benefits. University Provost Thomas expects reports back from thnse Notre Dame -whether or not swil'l actior1 from the body. Its 
";\t this point we have simply Burish and !Iuman Hesouces committees during the spring it exists and how it might be discussions have added spark to i(hmtilind tlws1~ as areas of con­director Denise Murphy. These semester. improved. issues like faculty hmwfils and l'l'l'n," Brown said. "In tho next eiTorts are a step in the right When Burish visited tho Murphy's visit to the Faculty academie freedom and for that sPrrwstPr, I hope that tho Sonatn direction, but the Senate needs Faculty Senate at its second Senate meeting prompted prob­it should he rommnndnd. wi II 1~0 111~ I u dn w h nth n r rna! to intl~grate itself further with meeting in October, members ing questions from faculty that prohltHns exist, and how we the rest of the University in were not afraid to voice com­felt health care costs wnre Contact Mary Kate Malone at ought to deal with thnm." order to respond to its needs plaints, as they questioned the stripping University employees mmalone@nd.edu 
CCC works with campus clubs, both in overseeing and advocating 
Tlw relationship between tho Club club events, reviewed its bylaws and added a Coordination Council (CCC) and student dubs new position to the Council -cross-campus and organizations is twofold -it oversees consultant, O'Shaughnessy said. dubs and adv111~ates on tlwir bnhall'. In early February, the CCC will hold club 
Tlw group's main purpose is to recommend information meetings, whieh teach clubs how how studnnt adivilies fens and to get through the allocation Tlw Shirt Projnct prof'its -process.
"There are a lot of
split halfway between student "There are a lot of forms and rluhs and organizations and forms and paperwork paperwork they have to do," /new clubs/ have to do."
charities -he allocated to O'Shaughnessy said. "It's just a rlubs on campus, said Both big info session for new club O'Shaughnessy, CCC president. leaders."
Beth O'Shaughnessy 
Thns1~ recornnwndalions are Two more jobs of the CCC tlwn prnsnntml to the Financial CCC president are to admit new clubs apply­Managnnwnt Board f'or review. ing for official club status and 
This is a yearlong task for to allocate concession stands tlw CCC. Next smnester, the group will bngin to to clubs for nnxt football season, 
makn plans for next year's allocation proeess. O'Shaughnessy said. Tlw Coundl also heard appeals for money for -Alicia Conley 
CLASS OF 2006 COUNCIL 
Financial Management Board allocates fees 
The Financial Management join Marshall to form FMB. Board (FMB) allocates student The Finaneial Managmnnnl activities fees and a portion of Board had a lwl'ty workload profits from the annual The this semnsler, givnn tho Shirt Project to various stu­increased funds flowing from dent organizations. heighterwd sales of The Shirt 
FMB also monitors the 2004. spending of these organiza­FMB met to discuss reallo­tions throughout the year, cation, and an additional said Mike Marshall, FMB $40,000 was distrihutnd president and Student Union among tlw various student treasurer. organizations on campus. 
All four class treasurnrs, the Nnxt semester. Marshall and off-campus president and rnp­FMB rnprnsnnlatives will rosentatives from the Student review the different organiza­Union Board (SUB), thn llall tions' l'inanens and discuss Presidents Council (lll'C), the future distribution of' this Club Coordination Council year's golden Shirl profits. 
(CCC) and the Student Senate -Marcella Berrios 


CLASS OF 2007 COUNCIL 
In deciding how to deal with the loss of servi<:e committee's tutoring and bag lunch­j_unlors to study abroad programs, the making sHssions. Junior Class Coundl madl~ a simple yet The Council has raised monny through effective choke -a break into two sepa­f'1mdraisers selling posters and shorts. rate Coundls, one lbr each semester. Works in progress include plans for a 
This change hasn't hindHred the Coundl's campus speaknr serios, tho developrrwnt of progress, junior class president Bill junior-urinnted workshops and focus Andrichik said. The six committees -spiri­groups to help juniors hunt for jobs. tual, social, scholastic, service. study Andrichik said thrne event<> will be thn abroad lilld finance -have all been activo focus for the Council next senmster. Tho in programming events for the Junior CJa.':is. Coundl will co-sponsor the Battin of the 
Last semester, the spiritual committee Bands with the Studnnt Union Board. arranged a class Mass at the Grotto, the Members will also help plan .Junior social committee orglillized a junior dass Gh\diators, an event based on American golf scramblo and the study abroad com­Gladiator·s, and the Emerald Ball, a dass mittee coordinated support to students dam:e. studying abroad. Ongoing efforts are the -Kaitlynn Riely 

CLASS OF 2009 COUNCIL 
While it has only been in existence a man from every dorm is a pPrf'Pet way shor·t time, the Freshman Class Council to ensure each dorm's freshmen are has already asse~·ted itself as a unifying integrated immediately into student force for the freshman class. [governmentJ." Heish said. "It's also a 
This semester. the Council w-spon· great way to survny the ent.ire l'roshman sort~d tho Hallownen Dance and the class' opinions." Best of' AcoustiCafe, freshman dass vice Establishing a sense of' c:ommunity is president Bob Reish said. one of tlw Couneil's maJor goals. Thn 
The Council's service committee is group's publicity committofl is designing overseeing a c.ampus-wi.de project to class apparel. and a new class Web sitn make Christmas eards for hospitals and is in thn works. nursing homes around South .Bend, "So far the Counril has mainly Reish said. Thc1 group is also planning a addressPd the ... issue of bringing th;. elass Mass in the Basiliea in January. Class of 2009 t.og•~thnr. Our goal is to 
This year's Council is composnd of 27 [sponsor] evl'nts that crnale unity freshmen, one !'rom each dorm. among tlw freshnten," Hnish said. "I think the idea of' selecting a fresh--Stmw Kerins 
With tltnltl y1~ars of' a Not.ro Dame Nlu­mlion behind it. the Snnior Class Council has lhwsPd its final year on eoordinating PVPnt!.; that bring lhn senior dass togeth­
'~r. "We an~ running the Council a little dif· fi~nml and k11eping it small and fbeused," sonior dass president Emily Chin said. "Each memb!'r basically ean be consid­nrod un'cvent c~hair' with owwwship ol' thn ovnnts hn Iori she runs,'' Chin said. "IThe nwmbtlrsl wet·n all asklld to be on this c~ourwil bocausH of their talent to managn divnrse situations. dedication, creativity. enthusiasm and the ability to work wnll in teams." Tho Council has overseen several 
~Wents during the fall Sflrnester, ioeluding a class Mass with University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, a dass dinner in the stadium press box and co-sponsorship of activities surrounding World AIDS Day. Members have also been instrumental in the establishment of the "$2 Thursdays" drink specials at Legends. 
Next semester, the council will plan sev­eral events, including sponsorship o( Operation Rice Bowl, a Mardi Gras­therned dinner, a service event with the Class of 2009 and Senior Week activities. 
"Our goal is to unite our class at ~wonts they want to be at," Chin said. ''So far. it has been a successfuI year." 
-Steve Kerins 


CLASS OF 2008 COUNCIL 
Bringing enthusiasm to its wot·k. tlw more class participate in publicizing evnnl<; Sophomorn Class Council pllms service, spiri­held by the Council to promote class spirit. tual and social opportunities filr thn Cia.<;.<> of A percentage of funds raised by the 200H. Council's swoatpant.c; salo and concession 
This snnmster, the t:oundl carried out 12 sumd benefited the Spinal Museular Atrophy pt'ltll'et-;, including a Purdun Garnnwatl:h, th1~ lhundation. The Couneil's J"e(:cmt Candygra.m Conwdy Sportz Show, 'l\1rning Ovnr a Now prqjoet is supporting Rod Cross roli<~f' otlbrt<; I~~at', a dass Mas,<; and dinnnr with University for the tornados that struck southern l'rnsident l·:meritus Fathnr l•:dward Malloy Indiana. and il-; biggc~st prqjoct. tJ1is yoar-Latll Night SophomorA class president Erin Karaokn. Mulholland has boon pleased with the soph­
Sl :c also holds da.<>s Hosari1~s on thn last omorn turnout at event<>. Monday of Pvory month. Thn rosaries aro "Support and participation is espeeially hPld at f>:45 pm. at thP Grotto and IPd by a high sophomore year," Mulholland said. group ol' Iloly Cmss brolhPrs. "J'poplt' am awarP of' what we arn doing and 
ThP Class of 2008 Stn'llt Tmun is an ongo­event attnndanr.c has generally bnnn high." ing prqjm'l wlwm nwmbm·s or the sopho--Jar:ylnne Madden 
' ' ' .·. '· ; . -: . 
. ...
. ,-.· 
I o o .. ''•,'· ' 



Apathy is a constant battle for student leaders 
Baron, Shappell aim for a 1!-nified voice to bring about significant change at the University 
By KATIE PERRY In Focus Writer 
As candidates during last year's elections. student body president Dave Baron and vice president Lizzi Shappell spearheaded a campaign that sought to lessen apathy toward student government­a goal they hoped would cre­ate "One Student Voice, Eight Thousand Strong." 
But midway through their terms, Baron and Shappell have learned that apathy is hard to combat, and that 8,000 strong might be too lofty of a goal. 


TIM SULLIVAN and CLAIRE KELLEYfrhe Observer 
The official Baron-Shappell 

Students cheer at the Michigan State game on Nov. 17, left. Student body vice president Lizzi Shappell and president Dave Baron
campaign Web site features a 

examine election results in February. The duo hopes students will unite for positive change at Notre Dame as well as for football.
photograph of the Notre Dame 

student section at a home football game. With the arms voice that is 8,000 strong," "Senate and other student years. [between student government of thousands raised unani­Baron and Shappell said in a government [organizations] "Increased coverage with and the student body]. That 
mously to a blue-grey October post-election Web site state-do things dif-[University will take time." 
sky, the campaign slogan is ment. ferently," he President The amendment passed in
"People in college are
fitting. Less than perfect voter said. "We're Father John July to South Bend's disorder­"Not only is the student sec­turnout -or governmental able to capi­busy. Student Jenkins' ly house ordinance forced stu­tion an impressive sight to apathy for that matter -is talize on government is our thing, September! dents to "stick with one voice" behold, it's a nothing new. action." inauguration and unify because of eviction
but everbody else has 
force that can U.S. Census Shappell Iand] our fears, Shappell said. Six Notre bring about a "[But/ it's still a Bureau records said there has their thing, too. " involvement Dame students received evic­said 64 percent been some !gavel student tion notices from their Turtle
change in the challenge bridging 
outcome of a of citizens voted " i m p r o v e -government a Creek apartments in October,
Dave Baron 
football game that gap [between in the 2004 ment" and more visible instilling both concern and
student body president
and also student government presidential people are face on cam-anger in many students. improve student and the student election, a num-g e n e r a II y pus," she Although Flaherty said stu­life at this ber deemed as more in tune with student said. "[But] it's still a chal­dents are closely connected
body]. That will 
University," high in compari--government than in previous lenge bridging that gap with SUB programmers and Baron and take time." son to previous staff given the group's nature, Shappell said in years. he said at times apathy is felt a letter posted Contrary to through a lack of apprecia­
Lizzi Shappell 
on their Web other student tion.
student body
site. "The ability organizations, "If there's any apathy, it's of Student vice president Student Union when [students] don't realize Government to Board (SUB) what goes into events," said do anything meaningful is director Jimmy Flaherty, who lauded students 
nothing more than its ability Flaherty said the group's who put in 8 to 2 a.m.
a.m. to unite the entire Student results are "action oriented," shifts, place catering orders Body in one direction." meaning students are more and make 4:30 a.m. "airport 
Nearly 4,300 votes were aware of visible successes and runs" to ensure concerts run cast in the February student improvements. smoothly. governmental elections, or "You can see our events. Baron said the apparent 
52.7 percent of the under­You can see us in Debartolo apathy students have toward graduate student body. Voter Quad. You can see us at government organizations is 
turnout increased in 2005, AcoustiCafe. You can see us not necessarily deliberate. with 763 more voters than in throwing concerts," he said. "People in college are busy," 2004 and 574 more voters "Students can see the results he said. "Student government 
than in the 2003 elections. of what SUB does for them." is our thing, but everybody 
"We got a little over 2,100 Flaherty said SUB is unique else has their thing, too." votes, which means we're from Student Senate and only one quarter of the way other forms of student gov­Contact Katie Perry at there to create one student ernment in this regard. kperryS@nd.edu 


NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S 
Thumbs Up 

+ 
To Dave Baron and Lizzi Shappell for building relationships with key administrators. 

+ 
To Baron and senators for standing up for the student body at South Bend Common Council meetings during the summer. 

+ 
To the Student Senate for its proac­tive research on a new student center. 

+ 
To the Student Union Board for bringing big name acts to campus. 

+ 
To the Campus Life Council for passing a resolution calling for more specific hall staff training sessions. regarding non-Catholic ministries. 

+ 
To student government for its quick response to Hurricane Katrina. 


+To Blake Jackson. Just because. 

Thumbs Down 
+ To Student Government Happy Hour;.:;;.;;.;.anineffedive so1utiori.toa legitimate apathy problem. 
+To sJ,mators repeating questions multiple times c;lupng meeti11gs~ 
+ 
To the Office of the Student Body President for failing to follow througll quiCkly on several key plat~ form positions, specifically a concert endowment and the Catholic Think Tank Series. 

+ 
To the Council <lfRepresentatives for occasionally demonstrating a lack of interest. 

+ 
To the Faculty Senate for sta11ing Senate Minority Affairs committee chair Rhea Boyd's resolution to create a committee examining cultural com­petency at Notre Dame. 



Thumbs Up 
+ 
To Saint Mary's student govern­ment for effective utilization of the new studentcenter. 

+ 
To Missions commissioner Jenny Robbins fo.r'J:heology <ln :Fire. 

+ 
To Susan Mcllduff for increasing commissioners to link students and facl!Ity. 

+ 
To Women's commissioner Katie Kelly's work to increase sexual assault awareness and improve upon the women's center. 

+ 
To the Student Diversity Board's aggressive actions to increase diversi-. ty awareness. 

+ 
To student body treasurer Jillian Waters for managing a tight budget. 



Thumbs Down 
+To Saint Mary's student govern­ment for advertising through e-mails. The same e-mail is sent several times advertising the same event. 
+ To the Board of Governance for an unexplained cancellation of the tradi­tional Pride Week. Although the administration took r~sponsibility for cancelling the event, BOG failed to provide students with a timely and thorough explanation as to the reasons behind the administration's decisions. 
+To the Residence Hall Association for failing to schedule dorm events and neglecting to build extra dorm pride. 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT 
Mitros, Mcllduff lead in time of transition 
government representatives
By MEGAN O'NEIL to be involved in the admis­
lnl'ncus Writer sion proeess," Mcllduf'l' said. 
"Student government reprn­
Wlwn student body prosi­sentatives know the College's dnnt Kellye Mitros and vice seheduln of events, since they prnsidnnt Susan Melldul'f' arn the ones who plan thn stnppnd into ol'l'ien last nvents." spring, tlwy came arnwd with Mitros and Mellduf'f' t.lw ideas and tools to lnad at watched another one of their an institution in tlw midst of' campaign goals-strong stu­transition. dent representation to the 
Mil.ros and Mdlduf'f' nxortnd administration -become a th11ir lnadnrship narly, modi­reality during the Board of l'ying f'rPshman orim1tation by Trustees menti ng during fall having Studnnt (;overnment hroak. Eleven student gov­of'('i«~Prs and l'f1SidPJH~n advi­ernment rnpresnntatives sat sors sPrvn as counsnlors. in on various subcommittee l'rnviously, counselors wnrn st1ssions, including the eol­sPin«:tPd through an appliea­lngn relations subeommitltw tion proenss. Mitros and and tlw committee on enroll­Mdldul'f' said thn ehangn links ment management. studnnt govPrnnwnt with nnw Three students hold a vote, studPnts. ineluding Student Trustee Jill 
"SineP lstudnnt governmnnt Vlasnk, public relations com­rnprnsnntativnsl arn prnsent missionnr Alanna Chiefari at most nvnnts and alumnae hold on l:am-commissioner pus, this l'irst Meghan Cassidy.
"It is essentialfor 
ynar elass has The previous IH1nn abln to student government year there were "My role is to address the the week of Jan. 2:~-27. A them a good tnam. knnp in contact representatives to eight student concerns of stu-tentative cal-"As it turns out, we are tlw w i t h t lw i r o r i -representatives dents such as a endar of complemnnts of' nach other."
be involved in the
nntation coun­and one student need for a com­'i4s it turns out, we events has shn ~aid. "I ol'tlln eomn up selors through­admission process." vote. mons area and are the complements already benn with an idea and Kellye mar­out the year," Mitros is also 24-hour access to set and kets it to the College. It has
ofeach other. I often 
Mitros and playing a role in the b.u i I d in g, " includes pre­been a rewarding expnri­
Susan Mcllduff 
Mell d u I'I' said. the hiring of' a Mcllduff said. come up with an idea sentations by enee."
Saint Mary's student 
"Our goal is third new "Last week, and Kellye markets it College Mitros and Melldul'l' said 
body vice president
that multiple administrator in Kellye and I invit­President thny anxiously antieipatP. the
to the College." 
mnntor-mentee two years at the ed vice president Carol Mooney promising future of' the relationships College. She cur­of finance Laurie and other CollP.ge, due to both thn long­will continue to be formed rently sits with the vice presi­Stickelmeier to Susan Mcllduff Saint Mary's term goal of increased admis­and rntnntion among the dent of' academic affairs and IBoard of Saint Mary's student alumnae. sions and the promise of' cre­Class of' 2009 will be higher dean of faculty search com­Governance] to Mciiduff ating tradition through the
body vice president
than in previous years." mittee -the body that will give them an said her upcoming Heritage Week. 
The pair has been commit­name a successor to Pat updated version detailed plan­ted to a campus-wide effort White, who announced his of the building blueprints." ning and Mitros's knack for Contact Megan O'Neil at to improve recruiting tech­retirement in August. The most creative idea that promoting things has ma~e onei0907@saintmacys.edu 

niques and increase enroll­ment numbers, an issue that appeared on their campaign platform in January. Last spring they appointed a stu­dent representative, Annie Davis, to the vice president f'or enrollment management search committee. 
The committee eventually hif(~d Dan Meyers to fill the position, and he began at Saint Mary's in August. 
MellduiT hnrsnlf is a mem­lwr of Volunteers in Support of Admission (VISA) and eon­duets tours and provides ovnrnight visits for prospee­tivo students. 
"ll is nssnntial for student 
The president and vice president are successfully utilizing and contributing to the physical changes occur­ring on campus. Their admin­istration is the first to make use of the new student gov­ernment office located in the new student center, and the pair maintains extensive office hours and an open door policy to interact with stu­dents. 
Additionally, Mcllduf'f sits on the new academic building committee which bngan meet­ings this summer to pinpoint the needs of tho College for a new building scheduled for completion by 2008. 
appeared on Mitros and Mcilduff's campaign platform -and what may ultimately define the success of their administration -is Heritage Week. Although it was not originally intended to replace the College's annual Pride Week, an administrative deci­sion to drop the week left a gaping hole in the Saint Mary's calendar of events. Heritage Week, designed to highlight the history of the College and build school pride, could prove to be a successful supplement. 
Mitros and Mcllduf'f' have spent months planning the week which is scheduled for 
ATE THREE NEW BOARD OF GOVERNANCE POSITIONS THAT HAVE PROVEN QUITE 


GRADE: B 
WHILE SOMETIMES LACKING 
EFFECTIVE. WHILE THEY 

THE AGGRESSIVE APPROACH 
WERE NOT PART OF THE 

OF PAST SAINT MARY'S 
DECISION TO CANCEL PRIDE 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
WEEK, THEY DID PROPOSE A 
ADMINISTRATIONS, 
SOLID ALTERNATIVE­

STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
HERITAGE WEEK. IF 

KELLYE MITROS AND STU~ 
HERITAGE WEEK PROVES 

DENT BODY VICE PRESIDENT 
SUCCESSFUL, THEIR GRADE 

SUSAN MciLDUFF DID CRE~ 
WILL JUMP TO AN A~. 

Student Trustee represents SMC on College's Board 
Vlasek sits on Student Life and Mission committees, voicing student issues 
with the latest student issues Vlasek is also expected to input about the well being of Saint Mary's.
By JACYLNNE MADDEN 
and concerns. ller biggest complete any follow-up work Saint Mary's students. Vlasnk also snns lwr roln as In hKus Writt•r 
project thus far was prepar­after Board meetings. "I feel like they still really a pnrsonal opportunity to 
ing for the Student Life com­Board mentings are held in value what I bring to the grow as a studnnt and takn 
l·:aeh ynar, thn Saint Mary's mitten's meeting when the June, October, table," Vlasnk pride in hnr eollego. Board of Trustons ehooses one Board of Trustnns eonvened in February and said. "In gener­"My main reason for apply­Saint Mary's senior to servo <>etober. April, meaning al, the trustees ing was that I know that this as a Student "This entails collecting Vlasek will serve "/feel like they still are irnmensnly position would be a perfect Trustee. 
infilrllHltion about students' as the Studnnt really value what I eoncerned with way to give back and sorVl1 This year, concerns and issues to form Trustee for two the lives of' stu­the Saint Mary's eommunity
bring to the table. " 
tlw Board areas of focus for the entire more mnetings dents. They ... My JHll·sonal goal has ehose Jill yPar," said Vlasek, who until a new care and pray always boon to snrve Saint Vlasnk, who worked closely with Vice Student Trustee is Jill Vlasek very much f'or Mary's in tho best ways sits on thn President of Student Affairs elected. us." can." Vlasek said. "I am so
SMC student trustee 
Board's Linda Timm and Student Life While Vlasek is For Vlasek, the grateful for all that has benn Student Life committee chair Karnn the only student fact that many given to mn hnrn at Saint and Mission Goodyear in preparation for Trustee, she said universities -Mary's and for nverything I committees. the meeting. she feels accepted by the Notre Dame included -do have learned." 
Vlasek

As Student She said she collects this Board. Vlasck said trustees not have student trustees is Trustee, Vlasek's primary information primarily through treat her as another member an important indication of the Contact Jacylnne Madden at responsibility is keeping up e-mails to the student body. and attentively listen to her philosophy and mission of jmaddenl@nd.edu 
..---------------------------------------­
page 10 Monday, December 12, 2005 
The Observer + IN FOCUS 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
BOG tries to increase its presence on SMC campus 
Members tactfully work with a tight budget to initiate new programs in the College community 
"It will really help the students 

By KELLY MEEHAN 
utilize the Center and allow them In Focus Writer 
to make suggestions for improve­ments," she said. 
The Saint Mary's Board of The success of BOG has also Governance (BOG) has come been dependant on the Student together this semester to initiate Diversity Board's innovative new new programs aimed to further programs regarding diversity unite the student body and issues on campus. SDB president address pressing issues such as Amanda Shropshire began a diversity on campus. S.I.S.T.A.H. Talks discussion series 
"I have really noticed an to facilitate open discussion increase in the presence of stu­between students about contro­dent government on campus this versial issues. year," student body vice president SDB will also make College his­Susan Mclldufi said. "The com­tory when it hosts the first ever mittee members really go above student-run "Diverse Students and beyond what they are Leadership Conference" in March. required to do." The purpose of this conference 
Mcllduff and student body pres­will be to develop the necessary ident Kellye Mitros worked to tools to function in an increasingly increase student representation diverse society, SDB vice president on BOG through the introduction Claradith Landry said. of three new commissioner posi­The Student Activities Board, tions: Student Services, led by president Megan Cahill, has Admissions and Health and worked to maintain traditional Wellness. College events such as Jamaica 
"These new positions really Shaka while also introducing new has been successful thus far pri­marily because members have not had to face controversy simi­lar to last year's Pride Week T­shirt debacle, which occupied much of the Board's attention in 2004. 
allow for a stronger  ones  such  as  
Board connection with College admin­ "I have really  Sundaes Sunday.  on  
istration to meet the  noticed an increase  "I really admire  
student needs," said.  body's Mcllduff  in the presence of student  [Cahill's] simple ideas that really get the students  
Student Services  government on  involved," Mcllduff  
commissioner Kate Wallach has worked  campus this year. ''  said. Mission commis­ 
closely with Barry  sioner  Jenny  
Bowles, manager of  Susan Mcllduff  Robbins  has  

"We have been very sensitive to the issues of the campus,"· Mcllduff said. "We have all learned from the past and focused on being inclusive of events that represent the student body." 
An administrative decision elim­inated Pride Week from the College calendar this fall. Mcllduff said the Board has not received complaints about the cancellation of the Week and hopes students will enjoy the newly created Heritage Week scheduled for January. 
"Heritage Week will be some­thing new that will allow students to increase their knowledge of the College's vast history," she said. 
As outlined in the Mitros­Mcllduff campaign platform, the weeklong event series is intended to "promote greater understand­ing and appreciation of Saint Mary's history and show how it made the College what it is today." 
BOG has been forced to deal with a tight budget due .to below average enrollment numbers in the Class of 2008. Board funding will continue to be below average until the class graduates in two and a half years. 

ness and popularity of the Volunteers in Support of Admission (VISA) program, Mcllduff said. VISA gives current students the opportunity to share their Saint Mary's experience with prospective students. 
The Board utilizes its expansive office space in the College's new student center that opened last spring. The Board previously worked in a notably smaller office located in Haggar College Center. 
"The student center offices are great," Mcllduff said. "People come in all the time -we work there all hours of the night and get a lot of paperwork done there." 
She said the Board also uses the new building for various functions such as dances, movies and game watches. 
Mclldufi said BOG has several events planned for next semester including SMC Tostal, Little Sibs Weekend, Heritage Week, Diverse Students Leadership Conference and four Chicago bus trips. 
"I am happy with the overall increased presence of BOG on campus," Mclldufi said. "We are working hard to maintain tradi­tions while starting several new and exciting events." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Sodexho,  to  Saint Mary's student  increased  the  "[BOG] treasurer Jillian Waters  
improve campus food services. These  body vice president  opportunity for students to focus  has done a wonderful job organiz­ing our books and keeping on top  
changes are appar­ on religious issues  of our meager budget," Mclldufi  
ent in the posting of nutrition facts  through the creation of Theology  said.  
in the dining hall, the introduction  on Fire. The monthly event fea­ Budget troubles may become a  
of a late night pasta bar at  tures speakers followed by open  thing of the past, however, as the  
Dalloway's  and  an  overall  group discussion.  College continues to increase the  
improvement in food selection.  "The goal of this event it to facil­ size of its student body. BOG  
Mcllduff stressed the need for a  itate religious issues awareness  Admissions commissioner Annie  
Health and Wellness commission­ through  open  discussion,"  Davis facilitates the exchange of  
er after acknowledging students'  Robbins said. "It is very similar to  ideas for enrollment management  
desire for an increased dialogue  the College's yearly Catholic  between  the  Board  and  the  
with the Health and Wellness  Common Ground discussion."  Admissions staff.  
Center.  Mcllduff and Mitros said BOG  Davis has increased the aware­ 


· OMMISSIONER AND


RADE: 
A-
MISSIONS ARE MAKING STEADY PROGRESS, BUT OTHERS HAVE FAILED TO 
SPARK CAMPUS CHANGE 

CERTAIN AREAS OF THE OR INCREASE STUDENT· 
BOARD SUCH AS SDB' ADMINISTRATION 
STUDENT SERVICES 
DIALOGUE. 
SENIOR BOARD 

If there really is strength in numbers, then this year's 33-member Saint Mary's Senior Board-the largest in the College's history -has more potential than ever before. 
This year's Senior Board, led by senior class president Lauren Condon, has already hosted Senior Dads' Weekend, sponsored soccer and volleyball games and a choir concert and held a dance for the Naval Academy, along with many other activities and fundraisers. 
Condon and the Senior Board have also introduced the "Senior Incentive," where seniors who attend one of the Board's events qualify for a free ticket to the Senior Formal. 
SOPHOMORE BOARD 

'flle Saint Mary's Sophomore Class Board has quickly learned a technique for suceess -combining innovation with tradition in its goals and programming. 
The 19-member Board, led by sophomore class president Colleen Ferreira, organized multiple eommunity service projects, fundraisers and activities last semester, as well as the sophomore class formal. 
During Freshman Orientation, the Board sold T-shirts emblazoned with the slogan "The Ineredi-Belles'' for $10 dollars to raise money for activities like a pizza night and salsa dancing lessons. The sale went very well and the Board quickly ran out of shirts. 
"One big thing we did this year was to work over the summer to get the Big 
Next semester, Condon said the Senior Board is planning on participating in two more campus-wide service programs: preparing for the Senior Formal and help­ing interested seniors find affordable apart­ments in Chicago by providing access to a real estate agent. 
"I've been really impressed with our Board thus far and I think we are doing so many great things," Condon said. "My goal is to sponsor events that support our fellow classmates and interests seniors." 
Other events coordinated by the Board include a baseball T-shirt sale, an etiquette dinner and a Mass reception with Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy. 
-Katie Kohler 

Sis/Little Sis program up and running again," Ferreira said. 
This program matches up a first year stu­dent with a sophomore to give the first year someone to talk to about her first experi­ences at college. The program is deeply root­ed in Saint Mary's tradition. 
"It is a tradition from when [College President] Dr. [Carol] Mooney was a stu­dent," said Ferreira. 
On Dec. 2, the Board hosted the Sophomore Formal in downtown South Bend. This was the final event in Sophomore Spirit Week. 
"This was our biggest week of the year, other than Parents' Weekend," Ferreira said. 
-Mollly Lamping 

The Saint Mary's Junior Board knows how to satisfy its constituents -ask them what they want. 
The 23-member Board, led by junior class president Heidi Goeppinger and bro­ken into Publicity, Social/Dance, Fundraising, Service and Junior Moms' branches, created an online survey last summer in order to get feedback from their fellow classmates before the school year began. 
The survey asked questions about what types of activities would interest the rising 'uniors. More than 200 students responded, helping the Board decide how to organize events and fundraisers to benefit both the South Bend and Saint Mary's conununities. 
It took a while for the Saint Mary's First Year Board to get organized, but now the Board's 15 members have thrown them­selves wholeheartedly into planning events to enhance student life for the freshman class. 
Led by freshman class president Francesca Johnson and vice president Pauline Kistka, the Board worked on several projects this semester, such as the Thanksgiving food drive and the Big Sister/IJttle Sister evening put on in conjunc­tion with the Sophomore Board. 
However, this biggest project thus far has been planning the Freshman Class Formal, a themed "Viva Las Vegas" dance to be held on Jan. 27 in Saint Mary's Haggar Center. 
JUNIOR BOARD 

"From there, we had a great idea of what the class wanted to see and the events they wanted to attend," Goeppinger said. 
The Junior Board also started a program called "Start Your Day Right with a Bite," where students ean get a free bagel break­fast in the Angela Athletic Facility once a month along with doing a workout with their classmates. 
"It basically encourages healthy living," Goeppinger said. 
Last semester, the Board dedicated itself to fundraising. Its biggest profits came from selling more than 300 Saint Mary's fleeces. 
The Board also sponsored a dance in October called "The Masquerade." 
-Katie Kohler 
fiRST YEAR BOARD 
"The dance is very important," Board member Lisa Anderson said. "There are going to be blackjack and roulette tables, as well as a raffie." 
The Board's current projects include Study Break, a week of Christmas-themed activi­ties during finals week. 
Next semester, members hope to sell class apparel, such as sweatshirts and sweatpant<; for the Class of 2009. Also on the Board's agenda is an April dance marathon to bene­fit Hiley Children's Hospital, also sponsored by the Residence Hall Association. 
"The goal for next semester is pretty much to get through the dance marathon because it is a huge undertaking," Johnson said. 
-Molly Lamping 
' • l •

.. ' '·,... 
.,' ' .
.·.'.·' ..... . 
page I I The Observer + IN FOCUS Monday, December 12, 2005 
SAB schedules events that appeal to campus 



Student Activities Board facilitates numerous activities 
Venet Theater while enjoying a free ice 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
cream sundae. In Fows Writer 
Tho Board also held the annual Twilight 
Tailgate this year, despite the cancellation 
While tho task of' planning activities that of SMC's annual Pride Week. The Tailgatn appnal t.o an entirn student body can be is a picnic on the library quad that was daunting, the Student Activities Board typically part of the Pride Week events. works to ovnreonw thn challenge by One traditional event that did not oceur organizing nvnnL'i to improvn the quality of' this year w<L'i the College's co-sponsorship cam pus lifo. of a Notrn Dame f'ootball pep rally. Cahill 
Under the dirnetion of' SAB prnsident said this cv1mt was not cancelled perma­Megan Cahill. SAB committen members nently, and she hopes it will be able to work to plan eampus-wide nvenL-; such as occur again in the future. SMC was unable thn traditional SMC Tostal and Jamaiea to co-sponsor a pep rally due to several Shaka, while also introducing nnw evnnL-; unnamed reasons, including changes in to the College mmmunity. the rallies' organization, she said. 
Thn annual danen held during frnshman Cahill said she is very dependant on her orientation attradnd a record number of committeo members to create and plan studnnL'i this ynar. Cahill said this increasn campus evenL<>. in attendance was due in part to an amaz­"I am rnally lucky to have an energetic ing XOs cover band that SAB sehndulnd to and hardworking board," she said. p1~rfi1rm at the event. Cahill and the Board are looking for­
"Myself' along with the two chairwomen ward to aetivities plannnd for next semes­of' Jamaica Shaka, Cassie Calion and ter, induding the annual SMC Tostal. Nonlln Whitnside, wanted to make the "We are planning to completnly change event lL'i successful a-; possibln to give the SMC Tostal by bringing in a big-name lirst-y1~ars a f'un time during this hard band," she said. "We will bn sharing more w1~ek," slw said. about this when the event geL-; closer." 
This year SAB introduced "Sundaes on Sunday," an nvnnt that invitns studenL-; to Contact Kelly Meehan at watch "Desperate llousewives" in Vandor kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC Student Diversity Board helps awareness 
SDB hosts discussions to increase respect for differences 
cessful bonlire, whore many studnnts
By MARY CONROY 

gathered to weleome and celebrate tho 
In Focus Writer 

divnrsc groups present on t~amp11s. 
Snvnral groups displayed a variety of' eth­
Continuing its sixth year with the nic pnrformanens, ineluding Irish Dancn Student Government Association, the and Salsa Dance. Thn SDB also ofl'ered Student Diversity Board (SDB) works to many difl'nrnnt nthnic fi10ds fiJr iL-; guosts, raise awareness and respect for diversity One of the group's most successful at Saint Mary's. events bngan this fall and will eontinuo 
"The Student Diversity Board was initi­next semcstnr. A serins of S.I.S.T.A.II. ated because many students on campus Talks, led by mnmbnrs of tho Board, havn voiced the concern that the needs of some drawn a large crowd ol' studonL'i. of the underrepresented constituencies of "Our most successful event this year so the College were not being met," said far wa-; the first of our S.I.S.T.A.II. Talks," Terri Johnson, dirnctor of Multicultural Fritzler said. "This ono discussed how Affairs. "Those underrepresentnd groups you approach those dill'ernnt from you. It included non-traditional studcnl<;, histori­was this event that has been the most cally underrepresented populations, suecnssful in torms of' incrnasing awarP­women with different religious back­noss." grounds, sexual orientation and with dis­Board mombers said they worn satis­abilities." fied with their succossos so far and hope 
SDB member Sarita Fritzler said the to continue to reach tlwir goals. Board filcuses on promoting religious and "Tho divorsity convorsations on campus sexual diversity. have definitely deepened because of thn 
"We have events to get students to be Student Diversity Board," Johnson said. more aware of diverse issues on our earn­"The Divorsity Forums havo stmngthennd pus and worldwide," Fritzler said. "The the dialogun for studnnts, faculty and goal of our Board this year is not only to stan· inside· and oul-;ido of the dassroom." increase awareness of diversity, but also reception of it." Contact Mary Conroy at 
The SDB started ofl' the year with a sue-mconroO 1 @saintmarys.cdu 

Saint Mary's Student Government 
IBoard of GovernanceI 
" 

I J I
•

Student Student Student Residence First Year Sophomore Junior ' 
Senior Academic 
Diversity 
Han


Activities 
Board Board Board 

Board Council 

Association
Board Board 


MATI HUDSON/Obse.-G 
Hall Association m_eets its first sem_ester goals 
RHA walks with SMC security to assess safety 
By SARAH VOSS 
In Focus Writer 
Tlw Hnsidenen llall Assoeiation (IU lA), whieh ovnrsees Saint Mary's rnsidnnen halls and plans sehool­widn nvnnts, aeeomplish1~d many of iL-; goals first semostnr. 
Members of the A-;sodation went on walks with SMC seeurity direetor Davn Chapman to address spots on 1~arnpus that felt unsafe or "needed morn lighting," HIlA presidont Jackio Wright said. They also wrote thank­you eards to ~-,rroups on eampus, sueh as the seeurity director and hall 
din~etors. 
Othnr events sponsored by HilA this year include a Breast Cancer Awarmwss eookie frosting in the Student Center, Sundays with College Prnsidt~nt Carol Mooney in eaeh of' tlw n~sidenee halls, staff trick-or­trnating in thn rnsideneo halls, Holy Cross llall's Haunted Tunnels and otlwr snrvicn projeel'i. 
Tho 12 Days of' Christmas Campaign is curn•ntly working to wltivatn Christmas and giving sprit throughout thn College community through monotary donations,' sup­port and volunteering. 
Currently, HilA is planning the SMC Formal, Little Sibs Weekend and a new project -a possible Danee Marathon sponsored by HIlA and First-Year Board. 
The HilA is made up of a presi­dent, vice presidont, eight hall coun­dl representatives, a representative from senior housing and two advi­sors. The president and vice presi­dtmt of the four residenco halls are clneted by the student body as well and sit on HIlA as representatives of their rnspective halls. 
Committee members indude a sec­retary, treasurer, social director, National Communication Coordinat­or, two health awareness ehairs, two service chairs, two SMC Formal chairs, two Little Sibs chairs, two Hosident Advisor representatives and one RIIA historian who docu­ments HilA events throughout the year. 
Contact Sarah Voss at svossOI @saintmarys.edu 


SAC works to narrow student-professor gap 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
In Focus Writer 

While studenl<> and professors may not always see eye to eye, the Saint Mary's Student Aeademic Couneil works to bridge that gap by increasing eommunieation between academic departmnnL'i and student representatives. 
One student from each of the College's 24 aca­demic departmenL<> is chosen through an appli­cation process to serve as a member of Council for the duration ofthe school year. 
SAC coordinator and student body vice presi­dent Susan Mcllduff said representatives arc required to meet with the chair of l11eir major or minor's department on a regular ba<>i<>, attend a weekly Couneil meeting and assist with all cam­pus aeademic fairs. 
The Council is also rnsponsiblc for the organi­zation of the Major of the Week program, choos­ing major events and the annual Women Honoring Women event in March. 
The Women Honoring Women event is a black tie affair to honor a faculty member SAC feels best fits the Saint Mary's mission, Mclldull' said. Prior to the event, SAC members sort through studnnt-submitted nominations and thon vote on who thny bnlieve is the best candidate. 
In roennt years, SAC ha<> bonn responsibln f(lr some m<\jor ehanges on eampus, including the introdudion of a reading day in Decnmbnr 2003 and the campus readership program in spring 2002. The readership program provides stu­dents with daily complimentary copies of the New York Timos, South Bnnd Tribune and USA Today. 
"SAC played a large role in thn emation of a study day," Mclldufl' said. "Wn rnally gavn the idea momnntum." 
Mclldufl' said the aeademie ropresnntativns deal with many serious unpublishnd issues from wil11in their departmenL'i. 
Senior English represnntativn Jennifer Warlhl said she works hard to assist communication between members of l11e department. 
"A-; a member of l11e Coundl, it is my duty to represent the needs, concerns, and id{~as of my department to tho Council and tht~ Council's idea-;, questions and projeeL-; to the dnpart.mnnt," she said. 
Mcllduff said SAC's future goal is to implemnnt ­a simpler registration method and allow studenL'i to know more about a particular eoursn prior to enroll mont. 
"I roally feel wn have bonn doing a great job this year," MclldulT said. "We have bonn vnry active a-; a Coundl to kenp up with th1~ nnnds of the campus." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO I @saintmarys.cdu 
... 
.. ' , t' ••• * •••
. . . ' ' .:,;,;, '.' . ' 
. ..... ·.. ·.··. . ' . 

Top left, student body president Dave Baron speaks at the inauguration of University President Father John Jenkins. Top right, Vince Vaughn performs at Stepan Center. Center left, Baron and student body vice president Uzzi Shappell embrace. Center right, candidates prepare for runoff election debates. Bottom left, a SMC student dons a T­shirt from the inauguration of College President Carol Mooney. Bottom center, students participate in the Katrina Collection. Bottom right, Shappell joins Jenkins on stage. 





