
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 31 TUESDAY, OCTOBER4, 2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Baron leads debate on activities fee increase 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Nt·ws Wrirn 
Tlw Council of Hnprnsentatives discussP<l a proposPd $15 student adivities fiH~ increase -designed to fund both tlw implenwntation of tlw Colleg11 Headnrship Program and additional student programming -at its meeting Monday. 
Chris llarris, r:hair of the ;\cadPmir t\ll'airs Committen, jus­lifh•d tho proposPd incn~asn to tho group. Ifp dtPd both llw decrnas­ing real value of student adivities l'nPs. whirh havn remained con­slant sinrP tlw 2002-0:~ school y.-ar, and tlw popularity of the CoiiPgP HnadPrship Program among students surveynd last spring. 
;\ projr~ct run by US;\ Today, tho College Headnrship Program pro­vides college studnnts with daily newspapers that are paid for upfront via student foes. 
"When you chart historical rais­es in student activity fees along with annual tuition increases and inflation rates, we see that today the real activity fee should be $8H," llarris said. "We're losing ~uyi.~g power for student activi­tJOs. 
Studnnt aetivity fees -collect­ed on studrmts' University bill nach snmestnr -are approved by tho Financial Management Board. Studnnts have initiated increases in the past, student body prosident Davn Baron said. 
"Onn eritidsm that cottld arise is our n~eomnwndation of $5 of additional funding towards stu­dmlt groups. but a strong outlook for The Shirt next year will also contribute to funding," Harris said. 
llalf' of' The Shirt profits up to $200,000 are made available liJr the Financial Management Board, as well as 40 pnrcent of profits earned in nxcess of $200,000. 
Baron said if the activities fee increases, almost $50,000 in additional funds would be allocat­ed for dubs and organizations. 
The proposed implemnntation of tho College Headership Program was supported by a four-week study last spring in whieh students worn supplied with fron copies of' the New York Times, US;\ Today and tho Chicago Tribune, llarris said. 
";\t the study's end, 82 percent of' students surveyed at distribu­tion locations said they would support a f'ee incrnasn to support the Collnge Hnadership Program," he said. 
The proposed student fee increase would provide 1,600 
see COR/page 9 


Battalion entrenches in fall training exercises 

Motorist nearly hits policeman 
Mishawaka rnan had been drinking alcohol 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
Thn Mishawaka man whom polien arrnstnd last. Thursday af'tor a high-spend ear ehasn that ondnd on Notre Damn's campus was allogndly driving under tlw inf'luen.e<~. St. Joseph County l'olien spoknsperson .lainwn Thirion said Monday. 
In what was tl111 second arrest madn on campus in thrno days, St.. .losnph County polien of'f'ienrs arrested Honald Hnnning • .Jr. at thn intersection of .Juniper Boad and Bulla Hoad following a 
17-minutn  pursuit  that  
rnaehed spneds of XO  miles  
per hour.  

Thirion said Hnnning was driving "at a high ratn ol' spned" southbound on Mayflower Hoad north ol' State Hoad 23 around 10 p.m. Thursday. lin attraetnd atten­tion when hn crossed thn centerline and nnarly hit a police ofl'ieer driving in t.he opposite direction. 
"The of'f'ieer pullnd to tlw sidn of' the road to avoid gPt­ting hit," Thirion said. ";\f'tnr tho vehieln passnd. thn ofTicnr aetivatnd his nmnrgnncy Ii g h t s . T lw d r ivn s I. o p 1w d and turned around <'oming toward thn ol'l'ic<'r north­bound." 
see CI-IASE/pagl' <J 

By MARY KATE MALONE 
Frustration with tlw use of' dorm f'unds for charity pur­posns spurTrHI intr~nsn debate at tho Campus l.if'n Council 
(CI.CI mooting Monday, result­ing in tho ernation of a new task l'on:n charged with inves­tigating tho issuo. 
Knott Hall roctor Brothnr .Joromn Mnynr said he was l.irr~d ol' bning asknd to donate morHlY from hall taxes to rausPs that worn not directly af'liliatNI with tlw dorm. 
"If sonwonP is going to have an activity. tlwy should get morwy from tlw University in 
somn other way instnad of'---------.,--.,-,--­using hall taxns," MnyPr said. see CLC/page 8 
"We have hall prosidents who say thny nnnd SO bucks, then they nned 90 bucks, and pret­ty soon our hall tax is gone and we can't provide for our students." 
Somn members suggested 
creating a  ruin requiring that  
students  ask  for  charity  
money  through  Hall  

Prnsidnnts Council instead of going dorm-to-dorm looking for funds. 
"But IHaH Presidents Council! donsn't have all tho f'unds in tho world P.ither," Hall Prosidnnts Council eo­chair Dan Znnknr said. "We nend to try to makn sure that it is known that donating 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 4, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Notre Dan1e, Country, God 
I went on the very first retreat of my life this weekend, an experience I post­poned until now because I was con­vinced I should not attend one unless I actually felt the timing was right. 
After a spend­

Marcella Berrios
ing my summer 
in a Catholic 
worker house, I 
Wire Editor
felt the need to 
have an encounter 
with Christ. 

NDE #87 provided me with the oppor­tunity to have such an encounter. However, I almost did not turn in my application because I was reluctant to take the weekend off and leave home­work behind. I stopped rationalizing every action, though, and decided to just go and worry about studying later. 
The retreat proved to be one of the most reflective weekends of my life. I'm happy to have met such wonderfully blessed young people. I don't mean to preach, but one of the things I kept thinking of was how often I put other things ahead of my spiritual growth. 
I've come to enjoy daily Mass, but ifI have too much homework due or ifI'm distracted doing something else, I forget about it. It just slips my mind. 
This is an upsetting thought because no matter what I'm doing, I never for­get to watch the fabulous Kiefer Sutherland Monday nights on "24." 

Similarly, Notre Dame students tend to place academics above all else. There isn't a single candle that is not lit in the Grotto during the week of fmal exams, but what about the rest of the year? 
By no means am I the girl in the can­dle spot, but I do remember praying really hard to God, asking that it please be His Will that I get accepted into Notre Dame. I thought NO-with its strong sense of Catholicism -would inspire me to become a better Christian. 
Yet upon arrival, I prayed at the Grotto only once during my freshman year -and this was an exceptional occasion. The Pope was dying. 
Overall, my faith did not grow in the 

• least and I did not thank the Lord every night, as I had promised, for granting my wish to at!end my dream college. NDE #87 was a hiatus from my roue tine, a time to stop and reflect on what my priorities should be. I strongly rec­ommend all students to take that break from their lives, too. ' I know I should be in Mass right now, but I am not. I'm trying not to condemn myself too much, though. After all, the road to Christ is a lifelong journey, and today I am at a better place in my life than I was last week. 
It is hard to keep the first command­ment. To love God above everything else, to put Him before everything else -before tests, friends and Notre Dame football-is truly a challenge. I real­ized this weekend that NDE retreats are scheduled in a way they will not inter­fere with home games. Now isn't that something to think about? 
Contact Marcella Berrios at aberrios@nd. edu The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

In Monday's Irish Insider, The Observer mistakenly wrote the 49-point performance was the team's highest single-game output since 1997. Notre Dame scored 57 points on Nov. 29, 2003 against Stanford. The Observer regrets this error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU FEEL SAFE ON CAMPUS? WHY OR WHY NOT? 







Chris Schenkel  Kathleen O'Rourke  Shawn Kotoske  Lourdes Long  Carolyn Plou  Bethany Hoelscher  
senior Alumni  junior Lyons  senior off-campus  freshman BP  sophomore PW  sophomore PW  
"I take full advantage of the Safewalk Escort Service."  "I feel perfectly safe here in my little bubble. "  "I'm in ROTC All your guns are belong to us.  'Tou can't even leave my dorm without setting some alarm off."  "NDSP officers make me want to la-la."  "!feel like I can leave my brass knuckles at home.,,  


Chinese chimp quits smoking after 16 years 
BEIJING-A chimpanzee in a northwest China zoo has quit smoking after 16 years with the help of her keepers, official media reported. 
The staff, worried about het declining health, weaned 27-year-old "Ai Ai" off tobac­co by distracting her with entertainment and a tastier diet, Xinhua news agency said. 
"The zoo keepers tried every way to divert the chimp's attention from ciga­rettes: a walk after break­fast, a music session after lunch and gym after dinner," Xinhua said. 
TODAY 
a:: 
She also got fried dishes and dumplings, as well as the usual diet of milk, bananas and rice, said one zoo keeper. 
"I also put earphones on her so that she could enjoy some pop music from my walkman," he said. 
Man scales landmark to impress girl 
TOKYO -A Japanese man made his way to a spot about 330 feet above ground on a famous Tokyo landmark Sunday in what may have been a reckless attempt to impress a girl. 
Japanese private broad­caster TV Asahi showed footage of a man standing on an iron frame on the exterior of the 333-meter Tokyo Tower and unfurling a ban­ner adorned with a large red heart and words that appeared to be the name of a girl. 
"Maybe he intended this as a message for someone ... I suspect that's the case since it had a heart on it," a police official said. 
The man came down after being persuaded by police, and was arrested for tres­passing, the police official said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
1.&.1 
:::r:: 
!;;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
.... 
<
(,) 


0 

HIGH 85 HIGH 70 HIGH 78 HIGH 55
.... 

LOW 68 LOW 65 LOW 45 LOW 35 
IN BRIEF 
Cass Sunstein, Karl N. Llewellyn Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence at the University of Chicago Law School, will give a lecture on his recently published book, "Radicals in Robes: Why Extreme Right-Wing Courts Ar_e Wrong for America" at 4 
p.m. today in the Notre Dame Law School Courtroom. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) will open its 2005-06 theater season with Arthur Kopit's "Wings" Tuesday to Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 
p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
The 13th annual American Cancer Society Great Lakes Symposium will be held Friday from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. at Notre Dame's McKenna Hall. Titled "Cellular and Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer," the event is open to the public. 
Bernd Sturmfels, professor of mathematics and computer sci­ence at the University of California at Berkeley, will give a lecture titled "Algebraic Statistics for Computational Biology" at 5:30 p.m. Friday in Hayes-Healy Hall at Notre Dame. 
Jose Miguel Insulza, secretary general of the Organization of American States, will be the keynote speaker at a conference titled "Democratic Governance in Latin Ameriea" 4:45 p.m. Friday in the Hesburgh Center auditorium at Notre Dame. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY  SATURDAY  
i)  i)  
HIGH LOW  58 37  HIGH LOW  60 43  
Atlanta 80 I 64 Boston 78 I 62 Chicago 86 I 68 Denver 77 I 41 Houston 90 I 72 Los Angeles 841 60 Minneapolis 79 1 51 New York 82 I 66 Philadelphia 82 I 64 Phoenix 97 I 73 Seattle 60 I 47 St. Louis 89 I 66 Tampa 88 174 Washington 80 162 



"Ji.Jcsday, Ocrover 4, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Erastnus lecture draws cro-wds 
By JANICE FLYNN 
Nt·ws Writ~r 
Tlw 200(, Erasmus lnstituto locturo snrios hogan its sixth annual installnwnt yostnrday wil h an ad dross by Louis l>upni on tho historical and philosophi­ral approadws to tho intnrsm:­lion of Iilith and modernity. 
l>upni, profossor nnwritus of tho l>npartnwnt ol' Hnligious Studios at Yah~ Univorsity, will givn night lnrturns this ynar on l.lw topic: "Hdigion and thn Hisn of Modnrn CulturP." 
l'rPvious Erasmus lm:tun~ sub­jtH:ts havo indudml Islam and Christianity and the dnvnlop­nwnt of' Catholic moral toarhing. 
l>upn'-a distinguishml author of 15 books and morn than 200 publishod artit:los -has been 1:nlnbnttod for his comprohen­sivn study of roligion that nxt1mds into linlds ol' an:hnology, sodal tlwory, philosophy and sd­mu:n. 
"You will lwar a lot of' what you will say has nothing directly to do with roligion," Dupre said. "My position is Ithat! roligion pmwtratns all aspocL'i of life and rultum-or it doosn't work." 
l>upni fot:usnd on the early S<HHls of rnodnrnity Monday, doscribing tho diflkult task of rm:ondling tho notion of forms with Christianity li1r thn Grnek philosophors and othnr intollec­tuals, including St. Frands of' Assisi, St. Thomas Aquinas, l>ant1~. Doscartns and Galiloo. 
l>upn\ said thnories of nomi­nalism, whir.h dnniml that uni­vorsals existod, and humanism, which li1cus<~d on the individual. 
NetiD Passwords 
Why you must change your existing NetiD password to a Strong Password 

Only the Strong Will Survive 
Q 
What is a strong password? 
A Strong Password is a difficult-to-guess password that you use with your NetiD to access insideND, Notre Dame email and shared storage spaces, such as NetFile. It is at least eight characters long, and is made up of upper and lowercase random letters, numbers, punctuation marks and other keyboard symbols. 
Q 
What is a weak password? 
A weak password is one that is short and easy to guess. 
Q 
What's an example of a weak password? 
Your first name followed by your dorm room number is an example of a weak password. 
Q 
What's an example of a Strong Password? 
myPWis1Uwg 
Q 
.=!ow can I remember a password that complex? 
It's a "passphrase" derived from "my password 
is one you won't guess." Remember the phrase; 
remember the password.. 
Q 
How do I change to a Strong Password? 
Go to https://password.nd.edu, and follow the instructions. 

FRANCESCA Louis Dupre, a professor emeritus at Yale Universtty, was the guest speaker at the 2005 Erasmus lnstttute lecture series. 
contributod to later doubL'i about God. 
"llavo you over paused to think why is it that in the 17th century, a number of ideas for explications of God wero invent­ed'! Because it was no longer obvious," he said. 
Dupre critieized lhe attempt to impose a modern concept of sci­entific criticism on the reflection on faith, and challengnd histori­ans who view philosophical devnlopments as a cohesive enti­ty throughout history. 
"It is totally inadequate to look back and say, 'Where does this come from?' as if the past held the secrots of the futures," he said, "Yes, there is continuity but it doesn't explain the facts within themselves." 
The next lecture, whkh Dupre will deliver on Oct 5., is entitled "Tho Breakdown of the Union of Nature and Grace." 
In the first half of his lectures this fall, Dupr<) will speak about the waves of modernity -earli­nr humanism movement in Italy, the Enlightenment and Baroque periods and the French Hevolution and Romanticism in the 19th century. 
All lectures are at 4:30 p.m. in the llesburgh Center Auditorium. Erasmus Lectures are free and open to the public. 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynnl@nd.edu 
Q 
Why should I change to a Strong Password? 
(1) 
Weak passwords put sensitive and personal information at risk that can be used by identity thieves (you don't want strangers guessing your password and pretending to be you) ; 

(2) 
If you do not change to a Strong Password, your existing password will expire, disrupting your access to Notre Dame networked applications, including email and shared storage. 


Will all existing passwords expire at the same time? 
No. Passwords that have not been changed (to 
Strong Passwords) since July 5, 2005 will be 
randomly tagged for expiration sometime between 
now and the spring of 2006. 
Q 
How will I know that my password is set 
to expire? 
You will receive an email from the OIT, and you will 
have 30 days from the day of receipt to change to a 
Strong Password. Once you change your password 
to a Strong Password, you won't have to change it 
again for another 180 days. 
When it comes to Strong Passwords, will the 
University make exceptions for some campus 
computer users? 
No exceptions will be granted. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Office of Information Technologies http://oit.nd.edu 
Povver outage leaves ca111pus in the dark 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
The thunderstorm that blew 
through Notre Dame's cam­
pus Saturday disrupted 
power to about 40 percent of 
the University's electric sys­
tp,m -leaving some students 
in the dark for up to 30 min­
utes. 
The outage affected various 
buildings including sevnral 
residnnce halls and the Main 
Building around 3:50 p.m .. 
Notre Dame Director of 
Utilities Paul Kempf said. 
No outages wcrn reported 
at Saint Mary's, SMC Direetor 
of Faeilities Hick Linio said. 
The outage occurred whnn 
lightning struck an Amori<:an 
Electric Power power line, 
Kempf' said. The University 
receives nearly half of its 
power supply from AEP. 
"AEP had an fault on their transmission line, and we dis­connected from them, result­·;ng in a need to interrupt power service to a portion of campus equal to that being supplied by AEP," Kempf said. 
KP.mpf said the utilitiP.s 
department prioritizes which 
buildings on campus get out­
age protection depending on 
the time of day, day of the 
week or speeial events. Since 
the outage took place on a 
Sunday afternoon, priority 
was given to residence halls rather than administrative or elassroom buildings. 
Knmpf did not say nxaetly which buildings worn aiTm:tnd but eonl'irmed thai tho Main Building did losn power as part ol' tho outagn. 
"This type of outagn is tlw most eommon to oecur," Kernpl' said. "This happens when a lightning strikn hits an ovnrhnad transmission line. 
Typieally thn lightning strikn is clnarnd in an instant. resulting in outagns that ar·n short -15 minutns or so ­based on the timn it takns to rnsynchronize with AEP. and then evnryonn is baek up and running." 
Kempf said Notre Damn hqs a highly roliabln eleetric sys­tem. Outages like tho onn on Sunday aro the uncontrol­lable result of Mother Naturn, Kempf said. 
A similar outagn oecurred on Mareh 30 during a thun­derstorm. Kompf said there have bnnn slightly morn instances of power Joss in the last ytHtr than in prnvious years. 
"It's not up to me how many outages there arn. It's up to the weathor and the random strikes of lightning. II' you could tell us how to stop lightning, we'd fix it." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
.,
. 
page 4 Tuesday, October 4, 2005
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Group discusses slow Internet speed titne 
By ALLISON RIDER 
News Writer 
Director of Information Technology Keith Fowlkes attended the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting Monday in response to an arti­cle in The Observer Monday about the College's "sluggish" computer connections. 
Fowlkes addressed the issue and explained the current sit­uation with the school's Internet connection to Board members. 
"The administration is aware of the problem," Fowlkes said. "We know what to do, we just need the money to do it." 
Information Technology cur­rently spends roughly $25,000 a year for Internet connec­tions. Expanding the school's pipe in order to increase speed would add an extra $15,000 to $17,000 per year to this expense. 
Much of the problem can be traced to services aside from academics, including music downloading -legitimate and illegal. Fowlkes urged stu­dents to "be as frugal with [thel connection as possible," until further action can be taken. 
Student body vice president Susan Mcllduff introduced a project in which SAC gathers the syllabi from every profes­sor so they can be viewed when registering for classes. 

Admissions commissioner Annie Davis also informed the Board that the annual "Fall Day on Campus" would take place this Sunday. 
"Fall Day is one of the biggest days of the year for admissions," Davis said. 
On this day, prospective high school seniors are able to come visit and see the Saint Mary's campus first-hand. 
Elections commissioner Danielle Lerner said Freshman Board elections were supposed to take place Monday, but were suspended until Tuesday because there was "speculation that some first years were voting more than once and that non-first years were voting." 
Finally, athletics commis­sioner Bridget Grall said since Saint Mary's swim coach. resigned last week, school ath­letic director Lynn Kachmarik is acting as the new swim coach. 
In Other BOG News: 
+ Relay for Life will take place this weekend. Activities begin at 6 p.m. Friday and will go until 10 a.m. Saturday. 
Contact Allison Rider at ariderO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC poetry reading enlightens 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 

A series of poetic readings by Saint Mary's professor Cornelius Eady kicked off "English Week" at SMC in Haggar Parlor Monday. 
"At this point, I have no language, no tongue, no mouth. I am not me yet. I am just an understanding," read Eady, a professor of graduate studies in creative writing at Notre Dame. 
Eady has authored six works of poetry including the critically acclaimed "Brutal Imagination," "Victims of the 
Latest Dance  Craze" and  
"Autobiography  of  a  
Jukebox."  

Audience members found Eady was engaging and the­atrical throughout his read­ings, which included anec­dotes from his life as an English major and stories of how he became a poet. 
The introductions to his personal poetry were meant to either inspire or deter audience members from fol­lowing in his footsteps as an English major, Eady said. 
"English has provided an adventure for life," he said. "At some point you read something that knocks you out so much that the only response you could have was to pick up a pen and writs." 
The poetry reading was the first activity in a weeklong focus on English at the College. The Student Academic Council sponsored English Week as part of its campaign to promote aca­demic development and rec­ognize academic excellence in the SMC community. 

Each year, every academic· department has the opportu­nity to plan activities for a week to build awareness about its area of study and to provide ways for students to further explore the depart­ment. 
The English department worked with English club members to plan an eventful week that will include a screening of "The Merchant of Venice" at 7 p.m. today in Vender Vannet Theatre in the basement of the Student Center. 
On Wednesday, there will be a Bagel Breakfast in the English Corridor of Madeleva Hall from 7 to 9 a.m. 
The week will culminate with the English Department's annual cos­tume party Thursday at 7 
p.m. at Stapleton Lounge. Students are encouraged to dress as a favorite literary character. 
Contact Liz Harter at EharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

SAINT MARY'S STUDY ABROAD FAIR l.,UESDAY, OC1~0BEI< 4, 2005 4:00-6:00 pm SMC NEW STUDENT CENTER: ATRIUM SAINT MARY'S CAMPUS 
ALL ND, SMC & HC STUDENTS ARE WELCOME!! 
Semester Programs  
ROME, ITALY  
MA YNOOTH, IRELAND  
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD  
SEVILLE, SPAIN  
INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA  
FREMANTLE, AUSTRALIA  
WOMEN'S STUDIES in EUROPE  
DIJON, FRANCE  

s 
Break Pro ram 
JAMAICA FIELD STUDY 

Summer Programs  
MEXICO CITY SURVEY: Study of American Business  
ENVIRONMENTS of ECUADOR  
INTERNSHIP in the EUROPEAN UNION  
EUROPEAN STUDY PROGRAM  
GREECE'STUDY TOUR  
KOREAN CULTURE STUDY  
HONDURAS STUDY PROGRAM  

Korec,m Culture Studv Program ~Sarah Paladino S~\JC 


ORLD & NATION 
Ti.1esday, October 4, 2005 CoMPILED FRoM "rHE OBsERVER's wJRE sERVJCEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ulcer researchers win Nobel Prize 
STOCKIIOLM, Swed11n -Australians Barry ,I. Marshall and Hobin Warren won the 2005 Nobnl Prizn in nwdicine Monday for showing that baetnrial inl'n1:tion, not stress, was to hlanw for painful ulcnrs in tho stomach and intnstinn. 
Thn I 1JX2 discov11ry transformed peptic uknr disnasn from a chronic, frequently dis­abling wndit.ion to onn that can be curPd by a short rnginwn of antibiotics and other mmlidrws, tlw Nobnl Prize committee said. 
Thanks to their work, it has now benn nstablish11d that thn baderium llelicobactnr pylori, which the new Nobel winnnrs discov­nrml, is thn most 1:ommon cause of peptic ulr.nrs. 
Palestinian police storm Parliament 
(;AZA CITY -Mon1 than three dozen Palnstinian policn offknrs broke into the par­lianwnt building in (;aza City on Monday, !ir­ing in tlw air to protest a lack of bullets and nquipnwnt in what tlwy said was a humiliat­ing 1:onl'rontation with llamas. 
The protest came a day al'tnr the worst intnrnal lighting in Caza in nnarly a dneadn and undnrscornd Palestinian leadnr Mahmoud Abbas' difficulties in taking con­trol of tlw unruly coastal strip. 
On Sunday, llamas gunmen attacked a local policn station with assault rirtes and rocknt-propPIInd gn1nadns. The deputy police chin!' of the Shati rnl'ugne camp was killed in tlw lighting, along with two civilians, and at lnast 50 pnopln worn wounded. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
NY teachers' union gets new contract 
Nl·:W YOHK -The public school tnachnrs union nHtdwd a contraet with the city that gives tlwm 15 p1m:ent raises over four years, oflidals said Monday, ending an impasse that thrnatnnml the nation's largest school system with a strike. 
Mayor Miduwl Bloombnrg, who is running for a sncond term in next month's Hlnction, and tho United Fnderatiun of Teachers annourH:nd the deal after several days of rmwwml talks. Until this round of meetings, nngotiations had stalled for nearly a year. 
Thn tnntatiw agreement extends the school ynar by two days and requires teachers to work 50 minutes more per week giving pupils extra lwlp. 
Thn Nnw York City school system is the nation's largest, with 1.1 million students. 
Starting tmu:hers now earn $39,000, with a maximum base pay of about $R1 ,000, and the union has long argued that city teachers' pay lags far bnhind that of their suburban coun­torparts. Under tho deal, pay would increase to about $42,000 to start, with a maximum base of $92,000. 
Conunandmentsjudge enters 2006 race 
C/\I>SI>I~N. Ala. -Hoy Mooro, who became a lwro to tlw r11ligious right after being oust­nd as Alabama's chinf justice for refusing to rnmovn a monunHmt of the Ten Con1mandmnnts from the courthouse, announn1d Monday that he is running for govnrnor in 2006. 
Moorn's candidacy could set up a show­down with Gov. Bob Hiley, a fellow Hnpublican, and turn tho Ten Commandmnnts disputo into a centntl cam­paign issun in this Bibln Belt state. 
Tlw Hnpubliean primary is Juno 6. 
Death toll in Lousiana reaches 964 
NI\W OHLEANS-The search for llurrieano Katrina victims has nndnd in Louisiana with a d1mth toll at 9(14, but morn searches will be eonductnd only if sonwone reports seeing a body, a statn oflidal said Monday. 
State and l'ndnral agencies have finished tlwir swoops through the city, but Kenyon lntnrnational Enwrgency Snrviees, the private company hired by the state to remove the bodins, is on 1:all if any othnr body is found, said Bob Johanrwssnn, a spokesman with the state D1~partnwnt of llnalth and llospitals. 
"Thnre might still be bodies found -for instance, if a house was locked and nobody able to go into it," Johannessnn said. 
Seats slid to the side before boat capsized 
Unfastened seats may have contributed to tip the boat; 20 passengers dead 
Associated Press 

LAKE GEOHGE, N.Y. 
The passengors aboard a 
tour boat that capsized 
on Lake George, killing 
20 people, were sitting in 
portable, plastic scats 
that slid sharply to one 
side of the vessel just 
before it flipped over, 
authorities said Monday. 
Wayne Bennett, State 
Po Iice s u peT in ten dent, 
said that investigators 
still do not know what 
initially caused the Ethan 
Allen to tip. But he said 
survivors reported that 
the unfastened plastic, 
slat benches_ moved rap­
idly to one side before the 
boat went over in the 
chilly mountain lake. 
"And that of course 
would automatically 
mean an even bigger shift 
of weight," Bennett said. 
The captain of the boat 
told authorities it was hit 
by waves from at least 
one other vessel and 
turned over as he tried to 
steer out of them, author­
ities said earlier Monday. 
The boat flipped so fast 
that none of the 47 pas­
sengers could put on a 
life jacket. Eight people 
were hospitalized. 
There was no immedi­
ate confirmation that another boat that could have kicked up waves . was in the area, and sur­
vivors were giving inves­have spoken with," said head. "It might have been the boat over a wave at a 
tigators differing versions Sheriff Larry Cleveland. another body, I don't particular angle, it could 
of what happened, A survivor, 76-year-old know." cause tho boat to roll," 
authorities said. old Jeane Siler of Virgil Chambers, execu" Chambers said. 
Gov. George Pataki said Trenton, Mich., said she tive director of the Chambers said lw also 
licenses for two other saw a wake coming and National Safe Boating expected investigators to 
boats operated by the the boat turned into it. Council, an organization look into whether thorn 
Ethan Allen's owner, She said she stood up and for recreational boaters, were any modifications to 
Shoreline Cruises, have was either thrown or said he was not familiar the covered, glass­
been suspended while the jumped into the water, with the specifics of the onelosod craft, such as 
investigation into where she found herself Ethan Allen but said the addition of ·a canopy 
Sunday's accident contin­surrounded by other pas­investigators would prob­struduro, that might 
ues. He and others, how­sengers. ably examine how weight have made tho boat less 
ever, said people should "I touched something," was distributed within stable. 
not draw any conclusions she said at Glens Falls thfl boat. New York state boating 
about the opp,rator. Hospital, where she was "If all the people were regulations require a lifo 
"I do not believe there treated for broken bones on one side, maybe to jacket for every porson 
is any criminal culpability in the spine, a broken fin­look at something, and if on a boat, but pnoplo do 
on any of the parties we ger and bumps on her the operator were to take not havn to wear thnm. 

ITALY 

Authorities execute anti-terrorism drills 
uments. Premier Silvio Berlusconi's ~·e~ m.!nutos bu~ overall I am very sat­
Associated Press 

government has also said it is taking tsfied, Serra satd. 
HOME -With simulated blasts out­seriously purported threats by Islamic The Colosseum drill was followed I 0 side the Colosseum, in a bus near militants on the Internet, who say minutes later by a simulatml oxplo­Piazza Navona and in a downtown Italy -like Britain -could be sion on a train at Homo's doopost sub­subway station, Italians on Monday attacked because it has troops in Iraq. way station, Piazza Hnpubblka, whnrn prepared for the possibility the The drill began with a simulated ol'lieials evacuated passongers from 
Eternal City may be the target of a suicide bombing outside the the train and escorted them above terrorist attack. Colosseum. The area had been previ­ground as smoko poured out of the More than 500 police took to Home's ously cordoned ofl', so there were no station. streets in the second in a series of passers-by around. A third drill was performed with a anti-terrorism drills as helicopters Shortly after, firefighters and other controlled explosion of a backpack loft whirred overheard and ambulances rescue teams wearing yellow vests on a No. 64 bus noar Piazza Navona, a snaked through morning rush hour reading "drill" worked in heavy rain square in central Horne usuallytraffic. Another is still to come in to put out fires and deal with feigned pa1:ked with tourists. Tho bus -usu­Turin -the site of the 2006 Winter casualties near the ancient monu­ally tilled on its route from tho eentral Olympics in February. ment. ' station to the Vatiean -was made to Italy raised its security alert after The government's top ol'l'icial for crash into two cars as part of tlw the July 7 suicide bombings on Home, Prefect Achille Serra, said he exorcise. London's transit system, stepping up was pleased with the drill. In all, there wern around 25 simu­measures at airports, government "We found some problematic points. lated deaths and morn than 120 simu­buildings, foreign embassies and mon-We can cut lour reaction time! by a lated injuries. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday. October 4,2005 
night, the cadets could not missions like reconnaissance, close their eyes for long. knocking out bunkers,
ROTC 
After setting up TAAs for ambushes and other unex­continued from page 1 the night, the cadets had sev­pected battlefield obstacles. eral classes in land naviga­"For the freshmen, it's kind 
completely planned and tion, in which they learned of like an introduction," Fleck executed by cadets, a task compass and map skills. The said. "They team up with Cadet Battalion Commander cadets were then sent out into upperclassmen. They are Tanner Fleck said took at the night to apply their new there for the experience, so least "five solid weeks· of skills. there's not quite planning" by seniors. "We were the pressure to 
"The first week before given grid meet the standard
':As Battalion
school let in, we had fresh­coordinates and get evaluated, man orientation going on, but and our com­Commander, prior like the juniors all the seniors also got work­passes and we are."
to leaving I put
ing on this FTX," Fleck said. had to go out Fleck said cadets
forth key tasks ­
"We had to reserve and coor­and find an are evaluated on dinate with the National eight-digit grid what i want to see these activities at Guard to use all the facilities coordinate," camp after their
from the battalion 
... It's really a lot of work. freshman Allie junior year, and
when we get back." 
"We had to go up there and Carrick said. referred to the GPS all the points up there so Carrick, who annual fall FTX as that when the cadets go up had never Tanner Fleck "their big cpance" they don't get lost [during attended an to prepare for
Battalion commander
land navigation exercises]. FTX before, assessment this It's a lot of coordination." said the night summer. 
Senior cadets were also in land naviga-"This FTX is the charge of personnel issues, tion was her favorite part of only time during the entire accountability, supplies, com­what she said was a "unique" semester that we actually get munications, arrangement of experience. to do that, because we don't a medical evacuation plan in Carrick also said for most have sticks lanes [at Notre case of emergency and the set freshmen, the most difficult Dame]." he said. "This is up for training underclass­event of the weekend was the their only preparation for the men during the weekend. "sticks lanes," a full day of semester that we have. This 
The cadets left for Fort Squad Situational Tactics first [IHX of the year] espe­Custer Friday Exercises cially, they get to see where and trained Saturday which they are and what they need from the time required teams to work on." they departed to "It was challenging of 10 to 12 Fleck said the junior cadets, Sunday after­because we had a cadets to employ or MSIIIs, performed well and noon, when they their tactical and all earned "Satisfactory" eval­
brief explanation on
returned to technical skills to uations.
what the [obstacles] 
Notre Dame. successfully com­"We want to get them up to Cadets were were, and those plete obstacles. 'Excellent's, or 'E's, before trained and was chal­they get to camp," he said.
brief explanations "It 
evaluated in lenging, because "So there's a lot of pressure
didn ,t really make
small unit lead­we had a brief on the MSIIIs to show us what ership, night much sense.,, explanation on they've got." and day land what [the obsta­While the focus was mainly navigation and cles] were, and on evaluating junior cadets,
Allie Carrick 
squad situation­those brief Carrick said she felt the
freshman

al tactics. They explanations did-freshman class learned a lot also learned to n't really make as well. set up what are much sense," "I wasn't sure what to known as Tactical Assembly Carrick said. expect. It was a huge learning Areas (TAA), or "bivouacs." Junior cadets, who served experience, and it was fun in These areas consisted of tents as squad leaders, gave the a unique way," Carrick said. pitched in a field, where the briefs and guided their squad "It's really interesting cadets slept. But on Friday through lanes to complete because you're learning-and 

it's a new exposure, like noth­ing I've ever experienced before." 
Fleck said the weekend was "very much" a success. 
"As Battalion Commander, prior to leaving I put forth key tasks -what I want to see from the battalion when we get back," he said. "We achieved all objectives. From the training point of view, it was a success." 
Fleck said cadets from all classes thought the event was a success, especially due to elements added this year for the first time like the battal­ion barbeque Saturday night and the return to campus Sunday afternoon instead of at night so students had more time to study. Fleck said all cadets are students first, and that an event like this is diffi­cult training for students. 
"It's our _capstone event for the semester because is the only time we can take the cadets out in to the field for training," he said. "I don't think the rest of the student body realizes what a big deal this really is. The training [the cadets I did over the weekend was actual Army training that you would do with your unit. We're not sol­diers yet, we're ROTC kids. And the training they went out and did this weekend ... for a student to go out and do that on top of their studies is really amazing." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

Everything you need for high-speed Internet access. 

Sign up for the SBC Student Plan 
SBC Yahoo! DSL Express + Your local Access line 
as low as 
$ 
75* 
a month for a g-month term! 
•other mcni!Jiy rharge1 apply. 

Taxes, other charges and the federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. For details ofadditional charges, restrictions and requirements, caiiJ-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.comlu. SBC, the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. ©2oos SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. All rights reserved. IN 
Tl·iE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Tuesday, October 4, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,535.48 -33.22
}ones A 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume 1,816 153 1~1 2,(}98,767,870 
AMEX I.738.76 +1.87 NASDAQ 2~155.43 +3.74 NYSE. 7,626.23 -6.75 S&PSOO I ,226.70 -2.11 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 13,646.12. +120.84 FTSE IOO(London) 5,501.50 +23.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +6.62 +0.26 4.19 NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) +0.25 +0.1 0 39.56 JDS UN I PHASE CP QDSU) -3.15 -0.07 2.15 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.89 -0.23 25.50 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.20 -0.05 24.60 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.16 +0.53 46.21 I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.34 +0.58 43.86 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.19 +0.50 42.45 3-MONTH BILL +0.43 +0.15 34.85 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.77 65.47 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -3.00 469.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.53 91.80 
Excha Rates 

YEN .008750 EURO 1.1912. POUND 0.8588 CANADIAN$ 1.7547 
IN BRIEF 
U.S., Oman sign free trade agreement 
WASIIINCTON -The United States and Oman announcnd Monday they have successfully eom­plntl~d negotiations on a frne trade agreement to nliminato trade barriers between the two nations. Thn Bush administration said it marked anotlwr milestonn in its goal to establish a free tmde ama throughout tlw Middle East by 2013. 
"This is a high-quality, comprehensive !'roo tradn agremnnnt that will eontribute to economic growth and trade between both countries," said 
U.S. Trade Hnprnsnntative Hob Portman. 
Portman's wrnrnnnts came in a joint telneon­ti~nmco with Maqbool bin Ali, Oman's minister of tradn and industry, who partieipated from Oman. 
Tlw agrmmwnt is expnded to havn little trou­hlo gaining congressional approval given that two-way trado hntwenn the United States and Oman. a small country bordering Saudi Arabia with a population of 3 million, is slight -only $74H million last yoar. 
Tlw Bush administration is seeking !'roe tritdo agrnmnents with a number of Middlo East coun­trins in hopes that oponing up thn world's largest nconorny to unrnstrktod trade will provide. neo­nomie support for movement toward greater dnmo<:raey in tho region. All of those actions, Portman said. arn "important stops on the path to implementing tho president's initiative to ern­atn a U.S.-Middln East Frnn Trade Area by 2013." 
Cornmeal company announces recall 
KNOXVILI.I·:. Tnnn.-White Lily Foods Co. on Monday announcnd a rncall of snlf-rising eorn­nwalmix containing undodared wheat !lour that rould <~ause an allnrgic rnadion to sensitive eon­
sunu~rs. 
Tlu~ mix was sold under tho "Thrnn Hivors" brand and disl.ributnd in Alabama, Florida, c;norgia. Knntucky, the Carolinas, Ohio, Tnmwss<H~. Indiana. Wnst Virginia and Virginia through grocory storos and wholesal<~rs. 
Tlw rocall involvns livo-pound bags rnarknd with usn-by datos of March 29, 2006, through .Juno 20. 2006, and two-pound bags datnd May IX, 20()(,, through Juno 26, 20()(,. 
Knoxvilln-basod Whito Lily said no illnnsses havo hnon roportml and it nxpods about half of tlu~ IHO,OOO n~call bags probably have alrnady !won consunwd. 
Companies use Katrina as excuse 
250 employee~ join worker's group, spurred by reduction ofhours, schedule changes 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -When 
IIurricann Katrina hit the 
Gulf Coast, women across 
the country crimped their 
cosmntics spending. Or at 
least that's what companios 
like Avon Produets Inc. and 
Esteo Lauder Co. want 
investors to think. 
Katrina also"causnd mat­tress salns to slide, accord­ing to Tompur-Podic International Inc. Same goes !'or business at Books­A-Million Inc. stores and Diebold Inc.'s automatic teller machines. 
With tho third-quarter earnings season kicking into gear next week, the blame­it-on-the rain excuses arc starting to pile up across corporate America. It's a challenge for investors to sort out fact from fiction in those reasons. 
There is no doubt that many companies wem hard hit by I£urricano Katrina, and in some eases, Hita, too. Given the size of those storms and the paralysis of business along the Gulf Coast, there will certainly bn some legitimate costs liJr business there. 
Insurance companies are gotting clobbered, as is any business that used New Orleans as a major port. Many retailers with large operations along that coast have also seen significant damage to their stores. lives and its customers. But That, though, really was­watch how their compnti­
But many excuses lately the company's problems n't the driving force behind tors deal with SlH:h issuns. seem murky, and more are aren't new, according to its earnings miss. During a If tho hurricarws are oxpected as companies Fulcrum Global Partners conference call with ana­plaguing Avon, Uwn. otlwr report their quarterly analyst Alice Beebe Longley, lysts, the Sparks, Md.-bascd eosmotics and consumor results in the coming weeks. who said many are attribut­company said that only product eompanies should Arn the storms really hurt­able to a "deterioration in about 25 percent, or 2 cents also be warning of trouble ing business or are they management control." to 3 cents, or its 8-cent ahnad. Estnn l.audnr notnd being used to divert atten­Spice maker McCormick earnings shortfall came the "eontinund nngativn tion from morn serious & Company Inc. highlighted from the hurricane. Tho impact" of Katrina whm1 it problems? Katrina as one major rea­remaining amount 'was due said it would miss its profit 
Avon, for instanc1~. son for its earnings to fall to continued weakness in its targnts, but similar rnd llags slashod its earnings forecast short of forecasts. Its industrial business. havon't eorne from giants last month in part due to Zatarain's line of flavored A way for investors to size like Proctor & Gamble Co., Katrina, and said that high­riec and other products is up whether companies are one of tho largost manufac­nr gas priee.s are hurting based just outside of New just doling out excuses or if turnrs of mass-market cos­both its sales representa-Orleans. problems really exist is to metics and bnauty supplins. 

FDA sets warning on ADD drug 
have to develop a medication guidn for dence ol' suicidal thoughts among ehil­
Associated Press 

patients and health care providers. dmn were rare, tho bonnliL'i of tho drug 
Dr. Thomas Laughnm, director of the continuo to outweigh its risks. 
INDIANJ\P{)LJS-Eli Lilly and Co. said FDA's division of psychiatry products, "It is uncommon and it is about Thursday it will add a blaek-box warn­said in December the federal govern­thoughts, but it is something we want ing to its attention deficit medication ment asked lilly to review 13 clinical tri­people to bo aware of," said Dr. John Strattera that th(J drug could increase als conducted on children to assess a Hayes, vice prnsidnnt of Lilly's msnareh suicidal thoughL'i among y<,mths. suicide risk. laboratories. 
Lilly will add the warning to label 'The risk for any individual patient Lilly submittnd to the FDA rnsuiL'i from worldwide f(Jr Strattera, for which the taking this drug is quite low, but from a Strattera clinical trial that round tivn 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration public health standpoint, IC:mr lca<>esl per Strattera-troatnd youths had inernasnd issued a health advisory Thursday alter thousand is a fairly big signal, given suiddal thoughL'i out of 1.:~57 pati<mts, rnviewing dinical trial data submitted by there are tens of thousands of patienL'i while nonn or H51 patinnts taking a the eompany. taking this drug," Laughren said. "We do placebo showed sud1 changns. Tlw com­
Lilly said that rnports of suicidal think that prescribers and patients need pany said one youth attnrnptnd suiddn thoughts by children and adolescents to bn aware of this risk that wn've just during its Strattnra trials, hut that taking the drug were rare. Details on the discovered." res<~ardwJ·s saw no signs of irHTnasl'd labeling are bning worked out with the About 3.4 million patients -adults suicidal thoughLo.; among adull'i. FDA, along with regulators in Europe and children -have bonn preseribod StrattnPit won praisn from sonw do<~­and Australia.· Strattora since it became available, with tors and parnnL'i whnn it bnearnn avail­
FDA ollkials said in addition to the Lilly ollieials saying about 75 pemmt of able in latn 2002 a.'> an atl<mtion dnlkit. black-box warning -tho most promi­those taking the medication are chil­disordnr trnatnwnt bneausn, u n IikP nent of medication warnings -the dnm. Hitalin, it is not a stimulant, a dass of Indianapolis-based eornpany will also Company ollieials stressed the ind-drug that can bn addidiw. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 4, 2005 
COR 
continued from page 1 
papers a day -a potential problem since the study's pattern for demand reached an equilibri­um at a little more than 2,000 papers. To address this shortfall, papers would be distributed only at the dining halls and at a speci­fied off-campus location, Harris said. 
"We are really going to pro­mote recycling of papers," he said. "We would have bins in the dining halls where you can put your paper [for other students to use.]" 
Student Union Board Manager Jimmy Flaherty challenged the proposal to increase fees in light of the inefficiency of budget allo­cation within student govern­ment. 
"I think it's incredibly irrespon­sible to raise student activities fees when we're not even using the money we're given," he said. "There's an ever-increasing carry-forward budget each year." 
Judicial Council president James Leito suggested student government conduct studies on where students want fee increas­es to go. 
"I've always been a big fan of increasing student activity fees," he said. "Have you guys done any research about student opinions of increasing fees for other activi­ties? They might also say yes for programming." 
The student fee increase will be proposed to the Student Senate on Wednesday. 
In other COR news: 
+Jennifer Keegan was approved without opposition as the College of Engineering's Representative on the Academic Council, where she will serve as a non-voting member with speak­ing privileges. Keegan cited her experiences working with both students and college deans while running the career fair for Engineering Industry Day and events for the Society of Women Engineers as evidence of her qualifications. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @ndedu 

• 


The positive effect of beginning your career with Ernst &Young is too great to measure. 
Agreat start can take you further. At Emst &Young we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. And what were offering is an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. Become a benchmark for success. Visit us on the Web at ey.com/usjcareers, or look for us on campus. 
FORTUNE.. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 



#1 


J,;;... 
;:::·· 

"li.Jesday, October 4, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
CLC 
continued from page I 
mo1wy is not mandatory. It's up to naeh spneific dorm. Tlwy have the right to know hneausn it looks good for the hall to got !.nvolved as much as tlwy can. 
Meynr did not agron. "For mn, it brings up a moral issuo." Mnynr said. lin said whon students pay 
':ating funds. 
"Being on tho Financial Management Board last year, I see how unfairly funds aro distributed," Lewis II a II s1111 ator Kat in M c llu g h said. "Clubs know they have to request $10,000 even if thoy only neod $2,000. Tlwy havn to over-budget to gnt monny. It's ridiculous." 
Divnrsity Council represen­tative Joycn Handall said stu­dmJt organizations should not hn gnlling away with asking for morn money than thnir budgnts demand. 
"If' that's happnning, where budgnts are padded too well. thorn's a problem with the Club Coordination Council !which distributes club funds I." Hand all said. "CCC needs to scrutinize budgets more efTnetively then." 
Tlw council decided a task force was needed to examine 
Chase 
continued from page 1 
Although the officer pur­sued the vehiele northbound on Mayflower with his sirens and lights activated, Henning did not pull over, Thirion said. The officer followed the vnhiele onto the US 20 Bypass and the H0/90 Toll Hoad. 
Thirion said Henning drove through two tollbooth gates. lie got off the toll road, 
the Student Union constitu­tion to sne if residence halls have any restrictions on where their hall tax is distrib­uted. 
In other CLC news: 
+ Student body president Dave Baron asked for updatns on CLC's task forces. 
Social Concerns Committee chair Jacques Nguyen told members or his task force's plan t.o reach out to non­Catholic students at Notre 
Dame. "Our task force 

their hall tax, "{f' that's has discussed tlwy are not told changing book­
happening, where
their paymnnts lets in chapels might hn sup­the budgets are and updating the porting padded too well, phone directory. U n ive rsi ty-wido Campus Ministry
there's a problem
issues -such as Web site needs to
·with the Club
charity fJVnnts -add more links to and this is not Coordination different reli­morally fair. Council." gious so~.vices in 
I> is c us s ion the area. about funding Campus brought to light Joyce Randall Grounds and tho yoarly Diversity Council Structures chair proeess of allo­representative James Leito said 
his lask l'orce has 

found an ally in a Snnate committee also charged with pursuing cam­pus beautifica­wanted to develop a proce­dure for mail workers deliver­ing packages so they can get in and out of residence halls with less diff'iculty. 
+ Baron also said he inves­tigated the status of' a resolu­tion created last spring that called ·for an ol'f'-campus crime nnwsletter to be dis­tributed to students. 
Though Baron expressed eoncern that the newslettnr could J'urthnr detach Notre Dame students from the South Bond community, he promised members he would schndule a mooting with Phil Johnson, Assistant Director of Notre Dame Security/Police, to determine how the newsletter might bn implnmented. 
+ Zenker updated mem­bers on student attendance at football pep rallies. lie said he will be meeting with Joyce Cnnter officials later this week to discuss the issue. At the last CLC meeting, snveral members expressed dissatis­faction with the procedure for letting students into pep ral­
lies. 
Associated Press 
BALTIMOHE -Just when 
we thought we couldn't get 
any l'att.er, a new study that 
followed Americans for throe 
decades suggests that over 
the long haul, 9 out of' 10 
men and 7 out of' 10 women 
will become overweight. 
Even if you are one of' the 
lucky few who made it to 
middle age without getting 
fat, don't congratulate your­
self'-keep watching that 
waistline. 
I !all' of' the men and women 
in the study who had made it 
well into adulthood without a 
weight problem ultimately 
becamn overweight. A third 
of those women and a quar­
ter of the men became obnse. 
"You cannot become com­

placent, because you are at 'risk of becoming overwnight," said Hamachandran Vasan, an associate professor of medicine at Boston University 
and the study's lead author. 
lie and other researchers 
studied data gathered from 
4,000 white adults over 30 
years. Participants were 
between the ages of 30 and 
59 at the start, and were 

examined every four years. .By the end of the study. more than. 1 in 3 had become obese. 
The study defined obesity 
as a body mass index, which 
is a commonly used height 
and weight comparison, of' 
more than 30. 
The findings, published 
Tuesday in the Annals of 
Internal Medicine, show obe­
sity may be a greater prob­
lem than indicated by studies 
that look at a cross-section of' 
the population at one point in 
time. Those so-called "snap­
shots" of obesity have found 
about 6 in 10 are overweight 
and about 1 in 3 are obesn, 
Vasan said. 
The findings also re­
emphasize that people must 
continually watch their 
weight, Vasan said. 
The research subjects were 
the children of participants in 
the long-running and often­
cited Framingham Heart 
Study, which has been follow­
ing the health of generations 
of Massachusetts residents. 
Dr. Elizabeth G. Nabel, 
director of the National 
Heart, Lung, and Blood 

''Get Nasty'' Wristbands 
Get Yours Today! 
www.getnasty.org 
"The rectors' areas
tion and vandal­ism. ofconcern seemed "I'm meeting 
to be lawnmowing 
with the person 
before 9 a.m. around
spearheading 
tho committee residence halls." 
to soe il' she 
wants her group 
James Leito 
to mont with 
Campus Grounds and 
ours, Leito said. 
Structures committee Leito sent a chair survey to rec­tors to gather feedback about 
Meyer said he does not think the issue was only duo to poor communication between pep rally or17anizers and dorm presi­dents. 
"To get 3,000 students through two doors in 15 min­utes is an impos­sibility," Meyer said. "The University can figure out that 

campus grounds. you can open more doors. It 
"The rectors' areas of con­doesn't take much to do it." cern seemed to be lawn mow­ing before 9 a.m. around rnsi­dence halls," Leito said. Contact Mary Kate Malone 
lie said the rectors also mmalone3@nd.edu 
turned southbound on State Hoad 933 and then turned eastbound on Douglas. 
At this point, South Bend Police and Notre Dame 
Security/Police  (N DSP)  
became  involved, Thirion  
said.  

!Ienning turned south on to Ivy Hoad where it turns into Edison Hoad, Thirion said. 
"South Bend Police laid stop stieks out to deflatn the sus­pect's tires," Thirion said. "It then slowed him down to speeds of 15 to 20 miles per hour as he turned on Juniper Hoad." 
Henning was stopped at Bulla Hoad and taken to jail. lie was charged with resist­ing arrest and DUI and was· in jail Monday on a $1,500 bond. 
Last Tuesday, NDSP arrest­ed a South Bend man wanted on warrant on South Quad after he stole a backpack from North Dining Hall, asso­ciate director of NDSP Philip Johnson said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
Study says obesity is 
part of getting old 
Institute, which supported tho study, said tlw findings show "we could have an evnn mom serious dngnw of ovnr­wnight and obnsity over tlw next few decadns." 
Susan Bartlett, an assistant professor or mndieine and an. obnsity researcher at. the Johns llopkins School of' Mndicinn, said tlw study was one or the first to look at the risk of becoming overweight. 
"The results are pretty sobering, really," said Bartlett, who was not involved in the research. 
While the health risks of' being obnse are mueh more severe than being over­weight. those who are over­weight arn much more likely to go on to become obese, Bartlett said. 
The study shows Americans live in an "environment in which it's hard not to b11eomn overwnight or obese. Unless people actively work against that, that's what's most likoly to happen to them." 
Obesity raises the risk of' heart disease, somo cancers, diabntes and arthritis, and being ovnrweight raisns blood pressure and cholesterol, • which in turn can raise the risk or heart disoase. 
The number of deaths linked to obesity has been heavily d11bated. Earlier this year the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said obesity caused only about 25,H 14 deaths annually in the United States -far fewer than the 365,000 deaths the agency had earlier reported. Other scientists have disagreed with the revised conclusion. while organizations representing tho food and restaurant industry think weight-related ills have been overstated. 
As for the Framingham study, Mark VandP.r Weg, a Mayo Clinic psychologist who researches obesity but was not involved in the study, said it is one of a few to track a group of individuals over an extended period. 
"What's particularly con­cerning is that those rnsults actually may underestimate the risk of becoming over­weight or obese among the general population" because minorities, who are at increased risk for obesity, were not included in the study, Vander Wng said. 
Hecent trends also suggest 

that people currently coming into middle age may be cvnn more likely to becomn over­weight or obese than those who wore studied, Vander Weg said. 
Mothers and adolescents 
needed for study on parenting 
and mom/child relationships. 
Informal study entails 2 at home 
visits lasting 2 hrs or less each 
and permission to audiotape 
some responses. $50 
compensation. For further 
information, please email 
Elizabeth at ewebster@nd.edu 
or call after 9 p.m. at 
313-303-4691 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, October 4, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

TIN /nJqmuUnt, Daily Nnuspap¥1' &rvirrg Nlltrr! Dame arui Saittt Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Gar~ia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick G\lerrieci 
A.p DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. 1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to F-tlitor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS ;·99;!.-4000) is publi5hed Monday ~hwugh Friday 1!1C:Ct!pt during exam and vacation periods. A suhscriptioo to The Observer is $100 for one academic year; $55 for one semesr<r. 
The Observer is published a1: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addr¢SS corrections ro: 
None Dame, IN 465%..()779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid ou Notte Dame P.O. Box 779 
and .addiriona.l mailing uft'ic(,'$. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Nottt Dame, IN 465-56-0779 
The Obscrver is a memher of the Assodarqd Ptess. All repmduairm rights att: rc:>r:m:d. · 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Perry Bobby Griffin Mary Kate Tom Darwart 
Malone Dan Murphy Marcela Berrios Scene Viewpoint Mark 
Becca Rosswurm Bemenderfer Graphics Illustrator AlexaRae Robin Fallon Antekeier 
Liberals aren't 
Thus succinctly proclaimed the bumper sticker on the back of my old car. It was a message that boggled the minds of conservatives and liberals, both of whom would stare blankly with the "I don't get it" expression on their faces. 
Liberals aren't. 

Rush Limbaugh will forever be cemented in my memory, declaring on my grandparents' radio that "the liber­als" were taking over the country. In recent decades, the word "liberal" has become synonymous with big-government "progressives" who believe that expanding the power of the federal government is "progress." However, the word "liberal" did not always mean what it means today. In fact, "liberal" used to mean something completely different. 
The word itself is defined as "broad­minded; tolerant of the ideas and behavior of others." Thus, a liberal was someone who was, above all else, tolerant: a person whose principle goal in life was to live peacefully and let others do the same. The liberals of the 19th century, now referred to as "clas­sical liberals," held a political and eth­ical philosophy that was grounded in the Enlightenment; they believed in individual liberty, minimal govern­ment, private property rights and free trade. 
Liberals were, for all intents and purposes, libertarians. 
Today, "liberal" is the term the Left has· commandeered to sanctimoniously describe itself. Liberalism in the mod­ern western world connotes an almost worship of the centralized welfare state: of "progressive" social engineer­ing in the form of expansive federal power and economic interventionism at all levels. "Liberal" no longer means "tolerant," it means "left-wing." 

Scott Wagner 

Live and Let Live or Die 
It is not uncommon for right-wing conservatives to bemoan the criticisms of the Left, which often pigeonholes the Hight as intolerant and dogmatic. The conservatives usually retort that the Left is not as tolerant as they would have us believe. Of course, this is a terrible defense on the conserva­tives' part, but it is also true. 
For example, at Cornell University, a right-wing newspaper recently pub­lished an article about race and crime. Shortly thereafter, the paper was con­demned by individuals in the adminis­tration and many left-wing students filed "bias reports" in order to censor the paper. I should also mention that many left-wing students collected up another conservative newspaper in 1997 and held a Nazi-style mass burn­ing. The administration, which con­demned the free speech of the right­wing newspaper, remained silent. 
Is that "liberal"? 
It has.become a goal in my life to reclaim this abused word from the clutches of the Left. The word "liberal" should not connotR pseudo-socialism. It should not convey the belief that the government -that wonderful creation that has brought us such gems as slav­ery, women's non-suffrage, war and the Postal Service-should control health care, gas prices, retirement, the War on Poverty, and whatever else. These insidious "progressive" institu­tions have no place in a true liberal society; and yet, alas, here they are. 
Because no grand social programs could exist without the threat of state intervention, today's liberals are con­tent to ignore the fundamental reality of "progressive" government pro­grams: for example, income taxation -enforced by the Internal Revenue Service-is unyieldingly compulsory, and with coercion comes aggression. 
True liberals condemn the growth of aggression, whether committed by individuals, corporations or govern­ments. Left-wing liberals, however, often do the opposite: they call for more spending, more regulation and more government power. 
The 19th century classical liberal Lysander Spooner, a brilliant man and American abolitionist, said it best: · "[T]he real motives and spirit which lie at the foundation of all legislation ­notwithstanding all the pretenses and disguises by which they attempt to hide themselves -are the same today as they always have been. They whole purpose of legislation is simply to keep one class of men in subordination and servitude to another." 
This statement perfectly sums up the fundamental principle of today's mod­ern liberalism: liberals embrace rheto­ric about civil rights and social justice, all the while compelling their fellow citizens to support corrupt and ineffec­tual government programs. 
The irony is, of course, that most lib­erals truly believe that their beliefs would lead to a better world, despite the violence that is inherent in their post-New Deal philosophy. The U.S. Constitution has morphed into a "liv­ing document" within the circles of today's liberal intellectuals, which is a feeble attempt to legitimize the mixed socialist system now entrenched in this country. The Constitution is not per­fect, but if it truly is some kind of "liv­ing document," it should "live" to even further restrict the government's pow­ers to meddle. Unfortunately, we are headed in the wrong direction. 
Someday, the word "liberal" will again mean what it should. The "liber­als" of today will eventually have to recognize that tolerance does not ground their ideology; that they imple­ment their political will through the barrel of a gun, whether they want to admit it or not. 
Someday, liberals will finally realize that they aren't. 
Scott Wagner is the president of the brand new College Libertarians Club and writes political satire for the Web site The Enduring Vision. He can be contacted at swagnerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
What are you doing for 
'Submit aLetterI
~ ''':'·'''' ' ' ' ,. ,' ' '' .,, .. ,, ..., ..., .., '''':'''' ' .,. ·'· ~' 
"/ do not think much ofa man who is not
the football bye week? 
wiser today than he was yesterday. " 
Abraham Lincoln

r~ t•·o·..,t•h'.A l\d1tor ~t 
former U.S. president
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
1···· tfL .. ·.·U1 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
~ www.ndsmcobserver.com I 11 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 4, 2005 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Gay rights: more than just marriage 
U-WIRE 
A chance for new leadership 
Thn indictment last Wednesday or U.S. House Majority Leach~r Tom Dd.ay on a state eonspira­~~y eharw~ is another disturbing development in a scandal-plagued political earner. 
Wheth1~r DeLay is guilty of thn rhargn or not, he should Matthew pnrmannntly relinquish his Nickson post as majority leader, in hopes that ll morn conciliatory The Daily and forbearing suecessor -Texan other than Hnp. Hoy Blunt­University of may replace him. Texas 
Judging from the evidence prc~snnted in the grand jury indictment. DnLay, along with his associates John Colyandro and James Ellis of the political action committee Texans for a Hepubliean Majvrity, may have unlawfully funneled corpo­rate eampaign eontributions to seven Hepublican legislative candidates. DeLay helped found the committee to enable Republicans to gain eontrol or the state House or Hnpresentatives in the 2002 general elections. 
In September of that year, Colyandro allegedly sent a constituent organization of the Hepublican National Committee (HNC) a cheek for $190,000 1mcompassing donations made to the Texas com­mittee by six corporations. Ellis allegedly direet­~~d an HNC oflieial to distribute the money to the seven Texas I louse candidates. 
These aetiviti!~s are under scrutiny because Texas law-spedlieally, chapter 253 of the Texas Election Code -places stringent limita­tions upon campaign contributions made by cor­porations and labor unions. In some circum­stances, corporations may-to eite a few exam­pins-contribute money for the purpose of com­municating with employees or shareholders and registering and encouraging them to vote; defraying certain expenses incurred by political parties; and supporting or opposing votes on political measures. Yet the general rule, set out principally in section 253.003, is one of prohibi­tion. 
Our law arises out of historical struggles over eontrol of the state government, pitting ranchers against bankers and robber-barons. The election code serves to prevent powerful interests from buying legislators with donations that, at the very least, create the disillusioning appearance of quid pro quo arrangements. It aims to level the political playing field. The election code is not on the books just to feel good about. Justice requires that it be rigorously enforced. 
No doubt, Colyandro, DeLay and Ellis are inno­cent until proven guilty. The U.S. Constitution requires proof "beyond a reasonable doubt" to obtain a criminal conviction. A "reasonable doubt" is frequently defined in jury instructions as "a doubt that would cause a reasonable per­son to hesitate to act in the most important of his affairs." This burden of proof is the highest in American law, and it rightly demands conclusive evidence of guilt. 
The prosecution will have to prove the ele-· ments of conspiracy as to each. District Attorney Honnie Earle will also have to show that the con­tested funds are satisfactorily traceable from the six corporations all the way to the seven candi­dates. 
A probable challenge to convicting DeLay, who was indicted over two weeks after Colyandro and Ellis, will involve producing sufficient evidence to link }lim to the conspiracy. 
Hcgardless of whether he is convicted, this alTair has already cast doubt upon DeLay's fit­ness for public office. The money transfer need not amount to a crime to appear wholly inappro­priate. Besides, DeLay's generally uncivil tem­perament-he once tussled with a Democratic congressman on the I louse lloor -and the repeated admonitions directed at his conduct by the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct in 1997, 1999 and 2004, demonstrate that he lacks adequate judgment and leadership ability. 
Hopefully, the worst part of the latest DeLay affair is not yet to come. On Tuesday, the U.S. Supreme Court announced it would review cases challenging the constitutionality of a Vermont law that strictly limits campaign contributions and candidate expenditures in state elections, as well as another case attacking a portion of the federal McCain-Feingold law. 
Nobody knows how the new Hoberts Court will interpret past precedents, especially Buckley v. Valeo, the lengthy 1975 decision that. among other things, construes the First Amendment to permit federal limitations on campaign contribu­tions but not on candidate expenditures. 
If DeLay's attorneys -chief among them Dick DeGuerin -challenge the constitutionality of applicable provisions of the Texas Election Code, and if appellate review becomes necessary all the way to the top, the Court could conceivably strike the provisions down, for any of a poten­tially infinite range of theoretical reasons. 
Notwithstanding the outcome of complex con­stitutionallitigation and courtroom drama, what America really needs now is refreshing leader­ship. We need a new Ilouse majority leader who can inspire confidence. 
This column first appeared in the Oct. 3 issue of The Daily Texan, the daily publication at The~ University of Texas. 
Same-sex unions: Law grants representation 
A new law allowing same-sex civil unions took efTnct Oct. 1 in Connecticut, which becomes the first state to legalize eivil unions without outside pressure or interference from the courts. 
The law grants all legal rights of marriage, in particular health care benefits, to same-sex couples, but defines marriage as between a man Staff and a woman. The law prohibits heterosex­Editorial ual couples from entering into civil unions. 
In previous gay marriage and civil union The Lantern struggles, the courts have been active in Ohio State forcibly establishing gay rights into the Uniz,ersity community. Those rulings have often been met with fervent disapproval, and many have been over­turned in higher courts. 
Vermont, which has spearheaded the charge for same-sex unions, seems for the moment to have found a middle ground in the continuing struggle for gay rights. Although the Connecticut law might be viewed as a flashback to sepa­rate but equal, it is one of the first of its kind that guaran­tees gay rights with the backing of a public voice. Separatn but equal, in the case of marriagH and civil unions, is inher­ently equal. Both institutions are afforded the same health care benefits, adoption and child care responsibilities and enjoy recognition by the state. 
Marriage has always been closely defined as the union between a man and a wf.lman. Hegardless of political stance, the light for gay rights has always belln the fight to define the word marriage. The Connecticut law, however, circum­navigates the marriage argument, and relieves the state's duty to define the word by providing equal representation and recognition to both heterosexuals and homosexuals in separate institutions. 
Other states have granted gay rights over the past several years. Massachusetts allows gay marriages and Vermont recognizes civil unions because of lawsuits, but Connecticut's law is the first glimpse into what the majority of Americans feel about gay rights-equal representation for homosexuals through civil unions, not marriage. Connecticut passed the law without court oversight, and uti­lized its elected officials and legislative process to spec.tk for its citizens. 
Both opponents and advocates of gay rights will undoubt­edly take a hard look at Connecticut's new law in the upcom­ing months. The law is a good one, and could be the first step in quelling the harshly dividing viewpoints of gay rights. 
This column first appeared in the Oct. 3 issue of The Lantern, the daily publication at Ohio State University. 
·The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Issues of soeialjustice are far too important to he deadlocked in semantics. When people hear "gay marriag1!," many immediately close their minds and hearts to tho ovnrall discussion of gay rights becausn this single issue is the deal-break­er. 
As a gay Notre Dame alumnus, I am incredibly proud of my alma mater for its steadfast commit­ment and rne1mt progress in bringing the dia­logue of gay rights to campus. It is only through this ongoing civil and educational dialogue that all the other. pertinent issues of gay rights get tlw discussion they deserve. 
First. there is the issue of gay marriage. For many gay, lesbian. bisexual and transgender cou­plns, marriagn is not about undermining religious doetrinn but rather about gaining access to thou­sands of civil benefits that legally protect and honor their committed union. While moralists elairn that this goes against God, I fail to see a dearer example of morality than two people solidifying their bond through legal and spiritual mechanisms. I agree with Andrew Nessi in his Monday, Oct. 3 letter in which he says that "reli­gious justifications for discrimination are never adequate." 
While this issue is important, however. achieved full equality for all of its eitizens. gay rights are more than just rights Millions of Americans, including some to marriage. Gay rights include at Notre Dame, continue to be the issue of basic, civil entitle­denied basic privileges and ments like receiving health rights based on their sexual care benefits from employ­orientation. The conversa­ers for domestic partner­tion about gay rights must ships and civil unions. include more than just the Gay rights include the marriage issue because issue of hate crimes there is plenty more at and the need for spe-stake. 
. cific legislation that I am proud of Notre protects people of any Dame for bringing more sexual orientation discussion on the vari­from falling victim to ous issues of gay rights terrorists and other to campus. thereby hate-driven criminals. opening minds and rais­Gay rights include the ing awareness. Through ability of loving and The Observer or through committed couples the other venues, I encourage opportunity to adopt a such sustained and coura­children who are in desper­geous dialogue to continue. ate need of a home. The bottom line is that the Ken Seifert issue or gay rights continues to be alumnus an issue because our country has not yet Oct. 3 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, October 4, 2005 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Ingram Hill brings Southern pop-rock to ND 
Swing Club offers students swinging Mondays 
JENNIFER KANG, ANN KELLEY !The Observer 

The swing club instructors take a break to pose for the camera. Lessons are held every Monday from 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. for $3, followed by an open dance: 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Scene Writer 
Everyone knows that life "don't mean a thing if it ain't got that swing." And the Notre Dame Swingers, Notre Dame's swing dance club, set out last night to make sure the students' lives had plenty of significance. 
Thrown in the LaFortune Ballroom from 8 to 10 p.m., the Swing Club's open dance was free to all who wanted to try their moves, circa 1920. Students wore their zoot suits, or maybe just whatever happened to be left in their closet, and danced the night away to swing classics and other songs rangi.Qg from ''I'm A Believer" to, of course, "lt Don't Mean a Thing" by Duke Ellington. 
Though the crowd was 

"It's something 
small at the beginning, a few brave souls dared to really fun, not venture out to try their expensive, where moves. By the end of the 
you can learn
evening the floor was so packed, dancers had to something that will avoid colliding with make people justeach other as they spun 
say 'awesome.' I 
and jumped across the 
love it." 
dance floor. The dance was even entertaining for those 
Nicole Dorner 
taking a small break, as 
junior
they watched their peers let loose and per­form impressive swing moves. 
"[Students] should come out, have a good time and learn some moves," said Swing Dance Club President Nick CaJacob. 
The music for the dance was provid­ed by the swing club's extensive collec­tion. 
As dancers changed partners throughout the night, students were told not worry about finding a date. Half of the couples on the floor had never danced together, but they had just as much fun as partners that had worked together for years. 
"It's all about your partner," sopho­more Evan Buntrock said. 
Even those that hadn't danced a sin­gle swing step in their life were encouraged to come to the dance. The swing dance club's talented instructors, recognizable by their trademark black­and-white saddleback shoes, lent a hand whenever needed, whether a dancer forgot an unfamiliar step or 
Nicole Dorner said. 

Senior Michael Quisao added, for the gentlemen, that it's "a great way to meet girls." _ 
Swing dance lessons are held. every Monday from 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. fol-wanted advice on style and technique. All the regular swing dancers at the club's weekly lessons are just as enthusiastic. 
The room is always packed with beginners will­ing to give every step a try, no matter how unfamiliar or unusual it seems, and more experienced dancers visit to get ih a little extra practice. 
"It's something really fun, not expensive, where you can learn something that will make people just say 'awesome.' I love it," junior 
30." By MARY SQUILLACE Additionally, after opening a variety Scene Writer 
of headliners, from Maroon 5 to Lisa Marie Presley, Ingram Hill made 
There are certain songs that connote enough of an impression on the road the feeling of eruising down wid1~-open that they were able to headline them­country roads -songs that almost selves on a second tour through eities require windows down and a full view across the country. of the down-home countryside that This success paved the way for their stretches ahead. With their emotionally recent full-length album debut, "June's driven, sing-out-loud lyrics, powerful Picture Show." The album features guitar interplay and lead singer Justin what the band has branded "pop-rock Moore's distinctive southern accent, with a southern twist," and the band band Ingram llill invited Notre Dame draws upon influences as diverse as students to take just such a journey the Black Crowes and Tonic. Saturday at Legends. "We're a rock 'n roll band," said­
The four-piece band hails from the Moore during the interview, "and we South and even found the inspiration want to have guitar solos, but we also for their name along a Mississippi write songs ... Someone once said that highway. if there was a southern pop category, 
"There was an exit sign along the we'd own it. I kinda like that. We're highway, and it actually says 'Ingram's proud of where we're from, and we're Mill,' but I misread the sign as 'Ingram proud of what we do." Hill,' and when we were deciding what However, their album presents more to call ourselves, we liked the name than simply a unique sound from the and where it came from, so we decided band. to use it," Moore and guitarist Phil "This album is a kind of blueprint of 
Bogard said in an inter- our  lives  as  emotional  
view before their per­formance. "After we had the name for a while and  "Someone once said that ifthere  beings," Bogard said. "It's about everything that's affected us up to this point  
told  people  where  it  was a southern  -the major pains and the  
came from, they were like, 'You idiots -it's Ingram's Mill."'  pop category, we'd own it. I like that."  good things as well." These strong emotions are not only expressed in  
However,  fans  have  lyrics of songs like "On My  
since overlooked the Memphis-based band's geographically-incorrect  Justin Moore Ingram Hill lead singer  Way," a catchy anthem that centers around post­breakup bitterness and  
name.  To date, Ingram  "Almost Perfect," which  

Hill's success consists of two album describes an agonizing love triangle, releases, radio play, television appear­but surface in Moore's sincere and ances and the song "Will I Ever Make It powerful vocals. Home" appearing in both the movie Unsurprisingly, the inspiration for a and on the soundtrack of "13 Going on number of these tracks stemmed from 
JENNIFER KANG!The 

Ingram Hill, with lead singer Justin Moore, performed this past Saturday at Legends. Their unique country-pop-rock was a delight to students. 
the breakup of a personal relationship "I don't want to sound arrogant, but I with Moore. would love to end up something like 
"I was devastated when it ended, but U2," said Moore. "Something that's I'm thankful for it now," Moore said. huge and lasts forever -that would "It's provided me with tons of material. definitely be the ultimate goal." I look at it as an emotional investment. Ingram Hill brought their southern We'd all been through some issues with style to Legends' stage last Saturday at women, and boy, that's the easiest 10 p.m. For those who missed them, thing to write about, I'll tell you what. visit www.ingramhillmusic.com for And it seems like people relate to it." music samples and more information 
Currently the band is in the process about the band. of a nearly non-stop tour across the country, and their ambitions remain Contact Mary Squillace at unhampered by their hectic schedule. msquilla@nd.edu 

lowed by an open practice until 10:30 in the second floor dance room of the Rock for $3 a lesson. It is also possible to pay by semester. 
As the swing club's posters advertise, where else can you get a workout, meet guys/girls, and learn to dance? The songs will keep on playing and the dancers will keep jitterbugging and spinning throughout an evening of informal fun. 
The final dance of the semester will feature the Notre Dame Jazz Band on a date to be determined, but it's sure to be a 'swinging' event. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, October 4, 2005 
page 13 

MEET THE GILMORES 
By ANAI.ISE I.IPARI 
Seem· Writer 
"l.ukn, will you marry me'!'' 
This short, shock-inspiring last sontonce of tho fifth season of tho popular WB series "(;ilmmtl Cirls" left fans begging li1r mom of the serios' signaturn witty rnpar­tnn and emotional range. At this momont, Lomlai Cilmorn (Lauren Graham), one of lunate pres<1nce on the often critically­ignored WB network, the show has devel­oped both a faithful. growing audience and critical support and praisn. 
"Gilmore Girls" fi1cuses on the mother and daughter pair of Lorelai and Hory Gilmorn (i\lnxis Bledel). Where Lorelai is fun, gooly and astronomically well-versed in cultural minutiae, Hory is rational, stu­dious and often the more responsible of the two. The show derives its core from 
tho series' two main charactors, had made up lwr mind as to where lwr romanco with local dinnr ownnr Luke Danes (Scott l'attnrson) would lw headod in tho near future. Luke's reply, hownvnr, was loft unan-
Gilmore Girls 
When: Tuesdays, 8 p.m. Channel: WB Starring: Lauren Graham, Scott Patterson, Alexis Bledel 
swnrnd for the three months preceding 
this latnst season's openor, whieh aired just thrne weeks ago. 
This is but one of a plethora of compli­cated and nndearing plotlinns for which "(;ilmorn Girls" has become famous over its multiple-season run. Despite its unfor­their relationship, and the often 80-to 90-page scripts reflect their (and the show's) fun, gab­heavy nature. The two Gilmores live in the fic­tional Connecticut town of Stars Hollow, a haven for the series' multitude 
of quirky and fun supporting cast mem­bers. It's in these kinds of details that the show truly shines. 
The basic premise of "Gilmore Girls" lies in the close bond between these two women. This can be attributed to their closeness in age, as a central pillar of the plotline lies in Lorelai's becoming preg­nant with Hory at sixteen and doing so as an unwed teenage girl with a rich back­ground and a somewhat rebellious nature. 
Lornlai's choice to run away from her childhood home after Hory's birth, baby in tow, led inevitably to a major rupture in her relationship with her parents, the wealthy and domineering Hichard and Emily Gilmore. Throughout the show's six seasons, the three generations of Gilmoros have run the gamut of emotions, from dis­trust and anger to love and reconciliation. 
The sixth season's opener proved no exception to the show's reputation for excellence in acting and writing. Luckily for anxious fans, the first scene immedi­ately picked up where the previous season finale had concluded. Luke, to the relief of all, unquestioningly accepted Lorelai's spur of the moment proposal. 
The writers of the show, Amy Sherman­Palladino and her husband, Daniel Palladino, have since hit the pair's rela­tionship with several challenges. From an icy town-wide reception of the unorthodox manner of their engagement, to the cou-piP's d11alings with thnir honw's nnw eon­tractor, Luke's brother-in-law, T.J. Lukn and Lorelai have suecnssfully ovnrconw theso libstaclns. . 
Despite this happiness, Lorelai's rnla­tionship with Hory has sufTiin~d what. could be a pnrmanent blow. During thn previous season's final episode, twnnty­year-old Hory, after bning rejeetnd from her dream job as a journalist for an up­and-coming newspaper, threw hnr prnvi­ous sensns to the wind and attnmptnd to steal a yacht from a nearby marina. 
Her story opened this snason with a Hartford court judge snntendng lwr to 300 hours of community service. This coincided with her decision to drop out of Yale University, where she had spnnt the past two years as a successful undergrad. 
This choice has been something of a source of turmoil fi1r both Lorelai and the show's fan base. However, it's these and other creative and complex storylines that keep the Gilmores' faithful fans coming back each Tuesday night. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Critic 
Following the current trend of televi­sion sMies coming out on DVD, Warner Brothers has recently released the fourth season of its popular hit, "Gilmore Girls." The series, featuring the mother and daughter duo of Lorelai and Hory Gilmorn, reached what some rngard as a creative slump in this sea­son, arguably the worst of the five that havn aired in their entirety so far. llowevnr, dnspite a slight drop in cre­ativity during the season's midsection, its snason finale is considered to be one or the finnst in the series' repertoire of Ppisodns. 
Opnning with the Gilmore's return from a sumnwr backpacking in Europe in thn season preminre, "Ballrooms and Biscotti," the l>VD of all twenty-two npisodes is a well-done compilation of both tho season itself and some fun bonus extras. These include "Who Wants to Get Together," a compilation of thn season's most romantic scenes, as well as deleted scenes and a "Stars Hollow Challenge" trivia game, among others. With each disc's main menu sup­plemented by the show's traditional "La Ia Ia" soundtrack, this disc set is decid­edly and delightedly Gilmore through and through. 
The fourth season's main plot opens with Hory beginning her Yale career. Having recently both graduated valedic­torian from her prestigious private high school and broken up with her boyfriend, Luke Danes' nephew, token bad boy Jess Mariano, Rory's life has its share of new beginnings. However, one tie to her old life remains, as she arrives at Yale to discover that her high school rival, Paris Gellar, is one of her new roommates. Throughout the course of the season, Rory deals with new and old friends, tough classes and professors and the increasing attentions of her other ex-boyfriend, the now-engaged Dean Forrester. 
Lorelai also deals with new chaJ: lenges, as she is faced with an empty nest for the first time since Rory was born. In addition to this difficult change, she finds a new romance with an old childhood friend, Jason "Digger" Stiles, who is now her father's latest business partner. While the romance with Jason was often criticized by fans as a dud, the show's faithful saw it as a neces­sary step in reaching the season's romantic con­elusion. 
Yes, Stars Hollow's star-crossed lovers, Lorelai and Luke, finally came to terms with their mutual feelings in the final episode of this sea­son. After four years of fan frustration, this DVD set concludes with one of the show's most gratifying episodes for devout watchers. 
For Rory, the season closes just as dramatically. Despite his recent wedding to local girl Lindsey, Dean and Hory make the decision to sleep together. While this also caused criticism from fans, showing the more human (thus erring) side of Hory, often the goody two-shoes type, was a daring choice for the show's creator, Amy Sherman Palladino. 

The special features on the Season Four DVD set are fun and unique in that they relleet tho nature of the show itself. 
As the series is known for its rapid­fire humor and quick-witted cultural references, the DVD features, ineluding a "Pop-up Video" style treatment of episode seventeen, "Girls in Bikinis, Boys Doing the Twist," kePp up that tra­dition. This fnaturn, the "Gilmon~ Goodies and Gossip" segrmmt, is both informative and hysterieal, as the trivia tends to go on random tangnnts, just as Lorelai and Hory do in each episode's verbose conversations. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of dvd.ign.com 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIED$ Tuesday, October 4, 2005 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles follow big win with home match vs. Kalamazoo 
Saint Mary's has won five of its last six, beat Tri-State· 9-1 Saturday 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The opponent may be faster and more skilled, but the Belles will stick to the tried and true and get the ball to brush the back of the net. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team will host Kalamazoo College in an MIAA conference game on Tuesday afternoon where the Belles will look to advance into the upper echelon of the divi­sion with a win. 

The women are on a roll, win­ning five out of their last six games, including the last two in a row. 
The Belles latest win, a 9-1 victory over Tri-State University, was a cakewalk against the MIAA's weakest member, but they hope the final score shows what is to come. 
"On the games we have lost, we haven't put the ball in the back of the net at all," Belles coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "That's something we're going to have to work really hard to. sort out. Your defense can only take so much battering without some aid from the attacking end of the field." 
In the current six-game stretch Saint Mary's has for­warded twenty-one goals, while the stingy defense has only sur­rendered five. 
But three of those five goals came in a shutout loss to Calvin College, who currently is in first place. 
This lack of production in cru­cial games has Mackenzie slightly worried, but she is con­fident in her team's ability to persevere and play the role of the underdog spoiler. 
"In a couple of our road games, I don't think that the score was indicative to some of the things we were doing on the field," Mackenzie said. "If we are going to be successful, we have got to find a way to be more consistent on scoring goals against our opponents." 
Kalamazoo was only able to Tri-State 2-0. 
The Hornets have struggled mightily on offense after they have put five goals into the-net in MIAA play, while allowing seven. 
The Hornets have managed three MIAA wins against Tri­State, Adrian and Alma. The Belles defeated all three teams with a 16-goal differential between goals forwarded and goals allowed, while Kalamazoo produced a paltry plus-five dif­ferential. 
This home game is a necessity to win, for the Belles next host Hope College in a re-match of a 2-0 Saint Mary's defeat to open the MIAA season. The Kalamazoo game also marks the halfway point for the Belles' season, and a win would cap the half season with a 6-2 record and· possible move to second place. 
The game will be played at 4 
p.m. on the Belles' field. The match-up is the fifth out of eight home games on the year for Saint Mary's. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 
NBA 

Stoudemire signs 5-year extension with Suns 
Phoenix will pay star forward the league maximum $73 million dollars; deal has opt-out clause after 2009-10 
Associated Press 
Amare Stoudemire signed a five-year contract extension Monday with the Phoenix Suns worth about $73 million. 
The deal is the maximum allowed under the NBA collective bargaining agreement for the forward who jumped from high school to stardom. The exact fig­ures won't be known until next year's salary cap is set, Suns president Bryan Colangelo said. 
The extension kicks in after this season and has an opt-out clause after the 2009-10 season. 
"What I've achieved now is something that I always figured I would as a kid," Stoudemire said. "I've had that type of deter­mination since I was a youngster playing around the playgrounds, getting dirty after school." 
He signed the contract a month shy of his 23rd birthday as the Suns gathered for media day preceding the start of their training camp in Tucson on Tuesday. 
The 6-foot-10, 245-pound power forward played out of position at center and dominated opponents last season for the high-scoring, fast-breaking Suns. 

Known for his breathtaking slam dunks and uncanny quick­ness, Stoudemire averaged 26 points per game, fifth-best in the league, as a key member of a Phoenix team that won an NBA­best 62 games. 
"It's huge for the franchise," said teammate and last season's MVP Steve Nash. "He's the cor­nerstone of this franchise." 
Stoudemire, the No. 9 pick in the 2002 draft, won the Rookie of the Year award over Yao Ming in 2002-03 and has improved each season. He averaged just under 30 points a game in last year's playoffs _ 37 against Tim Duncan in the Western Conference finals. 
The signing follows a lucrative deal with Nike last month. 
''I've just been working on my game the whole summer to try to take us to the top," Stoudemire said. "This has been a $100 mil'­lion summer for me, so I'm very proud of that. I'm just looking forward to bringing the champi­onship home right here in Phoenix." 
The Suns never have won an NBA title. Stoudemire is one of basket­ball's great success stories. He 
was 12 when his father died, and his mother was in and out of jail. His older brother is in federal prison. But Stoudemire never has been in trouble. 
"My main thing is I just stay focused on my all-time goals, and that's to become a role model for my family and also become the best basketball play­er I can be," he said. 

Moments after he saw the then 19-year-old work out before the 2002 draft, Suns chairman Jerry Colangelo told fellow team offi­cials "this is our guy." 
"Someone asked me a short time ago 'You know, Amare's accomplished so much what do you think his upside is?'" the elder Colangelo said on Monday. "And I said, 'If you recognize how far he's come in his game, you combine God-given talent with a work ethic that is terrific and a heart to be the very best, I don't know how high is high."' 
Stoudemire has been a famil­iar companion of team owner Robert Sarver this summer, accompanying him on trips to try to lure free agents. He even got to ring the opening bell, with Sarver at his side, at the New York Stock Exchange. · 
CLASSIFIEDS 

LOST AND FOUND  FoR SALE  
FOUND: Pair of Oakley glasses out­ 1 bdrm condo near ND.  
side of Corby Hall on Friday, 9/30.  All appliances.  
Call Jack 276-0401 to identify and  $69,000.  
claim  Call Kim Kollar  
574-280-8160.  
WANTED  Elegant all brick 3bdrm home &  
garage  
ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work  Nicely remodeled,  
$12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched­ gorgeous inside.  
ules around classes, Gain exp. in  1 mitoND.  
customer sales &service,Conditions  
apply, all ages 17 & older, Call  $175,900.  
Today 574-273-3835.  283-0629.  
Alpha Graphics is seeking full & p/t  
employee for customer service, digi­tal archiving & bindery work. Apply  FoR RENT  
at 201 N. Main, SB.  
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­ 
NOW HIRING Have a car? Need  BORHOODS  
some extra cash? Jimmy John s is  andersonNDrentals.com  
hiring drivers for all shifts.  Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND  
game weekends.  
Contact Chuck at 286-0299.  7732182203  

HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAIL­ABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS UP TO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO ND. FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS ­
OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315-5032. 
YEAI COLLEGE PARK has apart­ments available for 06-07 school year. Call today 235-7234. 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES. Best rates for weekend, monthly & yearly rentals. 574-250-7653. 
Rooms in private home for rent dur­ing NO football weekends or other ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 Bedrooms includes all utilities, local phone, washer/dryer, security sys-tern. $400/student. Office 234-9334, Cell315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com 

AP Phoenix Suns forward Amare Stoudemire talks to reporters after signing a five-year contract extension Monday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  WANTED:  
Bedrooms includes all utilities,local phone, washer/dryer, security sys­ 4 GAs for USC game. Call203-261-8717  PERSONALS  
tern. $400/student.  Jim.  
Office 234-9334,  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Cell315-2509  WANTED:  not go it alone.  
ndstudentrentals.com  ND-USC football tix.  If you or someone you love needs  
TOP $$$ PAID.  confidential support or assistance,  
ND HOME GAME WEEKENDS  CALL  please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at  
Very nice 3bdr home, fuJiy fur­ 574-232-2378 A.M.  1-7819.  
nished,walk to ND. Garage+ 5 off­ 574-288-2726 P.M.  
street parking, gas grill. Open lease  For more information, see our bi- 
after. 283-0629.  BUY/SELL/TRADE  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
OR SWAP  
TICKETS  ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-8048.  Spring Break 2006. Travel with STS, America s #1 Student Tour  
Operator to Jamaica, Cancun,  
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  NEED USC & TENN TIX  Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida.  
TOP$$ PAID.  & PARKING PASS.  
251-1570.  Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for  
57 4-276-8507.  group discounts.  
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  
289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE  A FARM FAMILY NEEDS 2 OR 4  Information/Reservations 1-800­ 
FOR$$:  USC TIX. WILL PAY A FAIR PRICE.  648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
www. victorytickets.com  
 
654-0169 (local call)  Come on Favre, win me my fantasy  
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT- game  
BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES.  Alum needs ND-USC tickets.  
273-3911.  Please..call Mike at 607-733-4590.  Break a leg, Alison  

r---------------------------------------------------------------~-­
AROUND THE NATION 
'litcsday, October 4, 2005 
NFL AFC East 

tPam  reeord  perc.  PF  PA  
Miami  2·1  .667  68  51  
New England  2·2  .500  87  108  
Buffalo  1·3  .250  48  69  
N.Y. Jets  1-3  .250  47  73  
AFC North  
I!\alii  rneord  perc.  PF  PA  
Cincinnati  4·0  1.000  104  38  
Pittsburgh  2·1  .667  81  37  
Baltimore  1·2  .333  30  52  
Cleveland  1·2  .333  45  64  
AFC South  
tfiiJ.rrl  rm:ord  pnrc.  PF  PA  
Indianapolis  4·0  1.000  78  26  
Jacksonville  2·2  .500  62  64  
Tennessee  1-3  .250  59  106  
Houston  0·3  .ODD  24  65  
AFC West  
tn;un  reeord  pnrc.  PF  PA  
Denver  3·1  .750  80  68  
Kansas City  2·2  .500  91  91  
San Diego  2·2  .500  127  88  
Oakland  1·3  .250  76  89  
NFC East  
tmuu  r0cord  pere.  Pl;  I'A  
Washington  3·0  1.000  43  37  
N.Y. Giants  3-1  .750  136  98  
Philadelphia  3·1  .750  112  68  
Dallas  2-2  .500  88  88  
NFC North  
tPam  nH:ord  pnrc.  PF  PA  
Chicago  1·2  .333  52  39  
Detroit  1·2  .333  36  58  
Minnesota  1-3  .250  64  107  
Green Bay  0-4  .ODD  72  92  
NFC South  
t.eam  rf\COnJ  perc.  PF  PA  
Tampa Bay  4-0  1.000  17  45  
Atlanta  3-1  .750  86  57  
New Orleans  2·2  .500  68  87  
Carolina  2·2  .333  103  96  
NFC West  
tPam Seattle St. Louis Arizona San Francisco  record 2·2 2·2 1-3 1·3  pore. .500 .500 .250 .250  PF 89 97 74 76  PA 76 111 110 132  

Big East Women's Soccer 
Division B 

team  record  
1  NOTRE DAME  4·1·0  
2  Georgetown  3-1-1  
3  Villanova  2·0·3  
4  Louisville  3-2-0  
5  Seton Hall  2·3-0  
6  Clncinnatti  1-3-1  
7  Rutgers  1-4-0  
8  DePaul  0-3-2  

points 
12 10 9 9 6 4 3 2 

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Troy at North Texas 7:30p.m., ESPN 2 
MLB San Diego at St. Louis 1 :09 p.m., ESPN Boston at Chicago White Sox 4:09p.m., ESPN New York at Los Angeles 8:19p.m., FOX 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA 


Associated Press 

DEEHFIELD, Ill. -The Bulls dealt center Eddy Curry to the New York Knicks on Monday, ending a contentious negotiation in which Chicago insisted the restrieted free agent take a DNA test over a heart prob­lem. 
In making the announce­ment, an obviously frustrat­ed Bulls general manager John Paxson did not specify 
what Chicago got in return and he did not field questions. 
"We will have an announcnmnnt tomorrow morning," Bulls publie rnla­tions director Sebrina Brewster said Monday night. "All we can say right now is we traded Eddy to the Knicks." 
Knicks spokesman Jonathan Supranowitz said the team declined comment on Paxson's announcement. 
The Bulls had insisted that Curry take a DNA test to determine whether he's susceptible to a potentially fatal heart problem. Curry, who missed the l'inal 13 games of the regular sea­sori and the playoffs after experiencing an irregular heartbeat, balknd, saying it violated his privacy. 
"I would nnver put a 
player on the f'loor in a Chicago Bulls uniform if I didn't do everything in my power to find out all the information that was avail­able," Paxson said. "You can debate genetic testing 'til you're blue in the faee. But from what I know, from what I've learned over the last six months. that test could have helped us detiW­mine the best course of action." 
Paxson said. "Our inten­tion through that whole process was to show him that we did care about him and that we wore con­cerned about his wnll­being." 

Curry's agent Lnon Hosn did not rnturn calls socking comrmmt Monday. 
Paxson said hn resented insinuations that tlw Bulls were on a sort of witch hunt, trying to find infor­mation on Curry. 
The general manager started by asking mportors to "let me ramble a minute." Arter a long pause, lw said, "This has been about as uncom fort­able and unusual a situa­tion I could ever imaginn. Wn've attnmptnd from Day I to do thn right thing, and I'm absolutely conl'idnnt that we have in nvnry way WI~ went about it." 
IN BRIEF 

76ers ~ick up free agent
Lee Nailon 

PIIILAI>ELPIII/\ -Forward Lee Nailon signed with the Philadelphia 76m·s on Monday after averaging a career-high 14.2 points last season with the Nnw Orleans llornets. 
The 6-foot-9, 238-pound free agent will be joining his sixth NBA team. 
lle was a member of the 1994 Indiana high school championship team at South Bend Clay. 
The former TCU player has aver­aged 8.9 points and 3.1 rebounds in l'ive seasons with Charlotte-New Orleans. New York, Atlanta, Orlando and Cleveland. lie aver­aged 4.4 rebounds in 68 games last season for tho llornets. 
The 76nrs also signed free agents SUwe Castleberry, Olu Famutimi, Herve Lamizana, James Thomas and lme Udoka. 
Leyland next in line to 
coach Detroit 
DETBOIT -Soon after Alan Trammell was fired Monday morn­
ing as manager of the Detroit Tigers, Jim Lnyland was en route to the Motor City as the leading candi­date to replace him. 
Tigers president and general managnr Dave Dombrowski planned to have interviewed Juan Samunl and Bruce Fields, both from Trammell's staff', before discussing thn opening with Leyland about 24 hours after the regular season nnded. 
"I am driven to move quiekly beeause I think there could be a lot of intnrest in .iim Leyland." said Dombrowski, adding his search eould end as soon as Tuesday. 
Trammell was fired al'ter throe snasons in which he failed to turn around a franehise without a win­ning record since 199:~. to make a namn for thnmsnlves." 
Vick will be ready to go 
next Sunday 
FLOWEHY BHANCII, Ga. Miehanl Viek is expected to start against New England this week after an MHI confirmed Monday 
that lw did not seriously injurl' his right ktwe Sunday in 1\t.lanl.a's vi<~­tory over Minnesota. 
"It cont'irnwd that it was just a mild sprain of his MCL. and lw is day-to-day," coach Jim Mora said. "That ought to put that to rnst for a lnast two or thrnn minutes from now when sonworw asks anotlwr qunstion about it." 
Matt Schaub rPpl;u:nd Vick and played tlw rest of the game. Tlw Fakons had a two-touchdown lnad when Vick walked slowly oiT thl' linld with a slight limp. 
The injury o e e u r r <' d w i I. h t 111~ Faleons ahnad 21-0 and all but nliminatnd tho ehatll:<l that Vick would rnl.urn. 
"Just bneausn I got injurPd donsn't mnan that my confidencn lnvnl is going to go down," Vick said. "Tiw samn thing happened to nw against S1mttln, and I canw baek and had one of my best garnns against Buffalo. Injury doesn't scarn nw." 
Vick tweaked his lnf't hamstring at Seattle in Wnnk 2 and lnf't thn gamn. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 4, 2005 
NFL 

.Packers' comeback 
not quite enough 

AP Green Bay Packers quarterback Brett Favre loses the ball Monday against the Carolina Panthers. The Panthers won, 32-29. 
Favre throws four TD passes but falls short at Carolina, 32-29 
Associated Press 
Brett Favre showed he still has some Monday night magic _ just not enough to prevent the Green Bay Packers from getting off to their worst start in 17 years. 
Favre threw four touchdown passes but couldn't overcome two early turnovers that the Carolina Panthers used to build a big lead and then held on for a 32-29 victory. 
The Packers fell to 0-4 for the first time since 1988. 
Rallying Green Bay from a 19-point third-quarter deficit, Favre threw two touchdown passes and for two 2-point con­versions in the fourth quarter and had the Packers in position to possibly win the game on their final drive. 

But with running back Ahman Green on the sidelines with an injured knee and no tiineouts left, Favre had to do it all on his own when Green Bay got the ball back with ·1: 58 to play. lie completed two passes before Carolina (2-2) stopped the Packers on a fourth-and-2. 
Favre threw the ball to Donald Driver past the first down line but Chris Gamble knocked the ball out of his hands and it fell incomplete. 
Favre, a 15-year veteran and future Hall of Farner who is possibly playing his final sea­son, stood alone at the 44-yard line. Soon, Carolina tight end Kris Mangum, a fellow Mississippian, walked over and patted the dejected Favre on the helmet. Mike Wahle, the left guard who spent seven seasons protecting Favre before signing with Carolina, embraced him. 
The Panthers let out a sigh of relief after nearly giving one away. 



CJ &Company Hair and Tanning Salon @North Village Mall 52565 State Rd. 933 N. South Bend,IN 46637 (574)277-2926 
$12.00 Haircuts! 

,...,~--...---·--·-·--.... ~-....... /p;,~, Haircuts, Col~;,-,' , HiLites, Facial Waxing, Tanning 
"',, Walk Ins Welcome / 
-.....~...~-~--...______ --~-~,--~·,.· 
Wednesday Men's Day Haircuts $10.00 
~---------------------, Ir----------------------,I r---------------------,
I ' I 

i $2.00 Off Haircut i i SS.OO Off i ! Buy aTanning Package, ! 
I I I I I I 1 Get 5Additional Sessions l 
I I i Chemical Service i 
I I 
l Free! i
i •Not Valid wMen's Day l I I 
I I
I I
I I I I
I I
I I I I
L----------------------J
1---------------------J L-----·•••••··-··-----J 
Mexican expansion a possibility 
·Future franchise in Mexico City only "a generation" away 
Associated Press 

Expansion to Mexico still is a generation away despite the success of the NFI:s first regu­lar-season game stagod outside the United States. 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said the Arizona Cardinals' 31-14 victory over the 49ers in Mexico's capital lent credibility to the league south of the border. A record 103,467 fans packed cav­ernous Azteca Stadium on Sunday night, the largest regu­lar-season crowd in NFL histo­ry. 
But Tagliabue said the size of the crowd wasn't the key fac­tor. 
"I think this game lets the fans here in Mexico, the ath­letes here in Mexico and busi­nesses and everybody else know that we're for real," he said during a question and answer period Monday before the American chamber of com­merce in Mexico City. "It was an element of legitimacy." 
He said the key to the future will be schedullng additional regular-season games in Mexico, and developing players in this country who can make it to the NFL and cultivate a strong fan base back home. 
"We will get there -here and in other parts of the world -more quickly than most peo­ple appreciate because the athletes are out there," Tagliabue said, adding that Rolando Cantu, a Mexico-born guard on Arizona's practice squad, will likely make an NFL roster in the future. 
Tagliabue said before kickoff Sunday that things already had gone so well in Mexico City that he believed the game would be the first in an annual tradition o·n foreign soil. Toronto and London are top candidates for next season. 
He reiterated that expansion of the 32-team league within the United States was unlikely anywhere but Los Angeles, and said there was no time frame for a Mexican franchise. 
"I think it will happen, prob­ably in our lifetime, but I'm· hoping to live a long time," he said, adding that players who might be concerned about liv­ing and working in Mexico City could be a potential hurdle to expansion here. 
The league generates just under $6 billion in revenue, with 1 percent of that coming from overseas sources such as NFL Europe. The approximate­ly 1,800 players make $3.6 bil­lion. 
Tagliabue acknowledged that while the NFL successfully had become an international league, it could not compete with soccer's global appnal. 
"Are we ever going to catch soccer?" he asked with a smile. "Not for 100 years." 
He also acknowledged that soccer is the undisputed king of Mexican sports, as evi­denced Sunday night when the loudest cheer came when the scoreboard flashed Mexico's under-17 national team's 3-0 victory over Brazil to capture the world championship in Lima, Peru. 


COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOl OF INTERNATIONAl AND PUBliC AFFAIRS THE EARTH INSTITUTE AT COlUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
Earn your MPA in Environmental Science and Policy 
The Master of Public Administration Program in Environmental Science and Policy combines Columbia University's hands-on approach ·to teaching public policy and administration with pioneering thinking about the environment. This twelve-month program takes place at Columbia University's New York campuses. 
For more information, please call 212-854-3142, e-maillar46@columbia.edu, or visit our Web site. 
Application deadline for early decision: November 1 
www.columbia.edujcujmpaenvironment 

Tuesday, October 1· 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Ver01in 
continued from page 24 
rivalry game evnry year and slays in llw dorm unlil the two tnmns nwel again. 
Tassanari's first touchdown 1~atch carne early in thn second half as he dovn into the corner of llw en dzone to hau I in Wilmot's pass. Wilmot had a carenr day, throwing for four touchdowns and over 100 yards. Tlw key to the passing success was spreading the ball out well. In the first quarter six Vermin receivers had eatchns on 11 attempts. 
The dominant pace of this gamn was nslablishnd tmrly on whnn Carroll opened up with a scorn af'ter running only six plays. Tlw drive culminated with a pass to Mike Johnson, who also kicked the extra point to make the score 7-0. Johnson did il all for the Vermin this week -on lop of his kil:king dulies and 62 yards of' receiving, tlw hig dnfnnsivtl back also had two inlercnptions to stop key Fislwr drives. 
Hunning hack Mark Bennett had llw other Vermin score on a 40-yard catch and run. Fisher was able to hlock tho nxlra point try, hut it was of littln consola­tion as the struggling Big Green ofTense now had a 13-point deficit to overcome. They stHHned to have something going after thn score as quarterbaek Pat c;otnbeski was able to scramble and pass his way into Carroll tnrritory. llowever timo ran out, ending their drive and thn half. 
In the seeond half tho Fisher running game eould not get going, and once again the Vtn·min were able to shut them out. The Big Green had thren turnovers on the day and never seemnd to get eomf'ortable. (;otebeski attribUtfld tho hard times to a lack of' focus. 
"Wn had too many mental mistakes to overcome this week," he said. 
With this loss, Fisher drops to I-I with two tough games left on its sdwdule. 
The Vermin, on the other hand. look poised to makn their mark in thn postsnason with this second impressive win of the snason. But thn tmun wasn't too coneernnd with the rest of the SIHtson after Sunday's game. 
They were mueh more excited to be able to return to their dorm with the Cricket Stick onee again. 
Siegfried 10, Sorln 0 
Siegfried's offense finally seored a touehdown Sunday afternoon in a 10-0 win against Sorin, as freshman Marcus Young punched it in from 11 yards out to lead the Ramblers. 
The running baek's third­quarter touehdown was the team's first of the season, as they were finally able to sustain a drive. 
On the drive, there were two key third-down eonversions, one eoming on a quarterback sneak and the other on a third-down pass to reeeiver Mar<~us Boldin. 
The drive eulminated with the 11-yard run by Young to give Siegfrind the 10-0 lead. 
"Our ommse has been dose all year," Siegfried captain Kyle Hice said. "We tinally had some rhythm today, but we still have a long way to go." 
It looked like the Siegfried ofl'ense would again struggle to put points on the board early in he game. 
In the first quarter, a bad snap on an attempted Sorin punt gave the Hamblers the ball on the Otter 10-yard line, but Siegfried was unable put it in the endzone. 
A 27-yard Pablo Diaz field goal gave them an early 3-0 lead. 
Siegfried's defense, which has been dominant all year, com­pletely shut down Sorin's ofl"nnse. 
Sorin quarterback Stu Mora, working out of the shotgun all game. never had enough time to find his receivers as the Hambler defense applied eon­slant pressure. 
"They did a good job shutting down our reeeivers, and our offensive line didn't do a good job of' pieking up their blitzes," Sorin coach Matt Young said. 
The Otter offense couldn't put together any sustained drives all game. The only time they were inside Siegl'ried 's 30-yard line was becausn the Otter defense forced a turnover. Sunday's result leaves Siegfried (2-1) in very good shape to make the playofl's, as a win will guarantee a playoff berth and a loss still may give the H.amblers a spot in the postseason. 
Sorin, however, needs to win nnxt week against Fisher in 
order to have a chance to make 
the playoffs. 
"Next week is basically the first week of the playoffs for us," said Young. 
Zahm 29, St. Edward's 0 
Then Ossei-Anto's seven car­ries for 175 yards lead a Zahm ofl'ense that put up 240 yards of total offense, en route to a 29-0 victory over St. Edward's. 
The Bats' defense was just as impressive in holding the Stedsmen's attack to 31 yards, while putting eonstant pmssure on quarterback John Brewis. 
The unit tallied five saeks on the day, and never allowed St. Ed's inside the md zone. 
But despite the stellar defen­sive efl'ort, the story of' the game was the Zahm ground game, led by Ossei-Anto. 
The freshman tailbaek dis­mantled the Stedsmen defense, as he took four earries for over 25 yards. 
In Zahm's third touchdown drive, one that spanned 99 yards, Ossei-Anto gained 91 yards-on just two earries. 
First, the speedy back took an option pitch from quarterback Sean Wieland and sprinted right for 37 yards. On the next play, he ran left through a gaping hole f'or 54 yards to the St. Ed's eight. 
Two plays later, Jake Richardville pounded it in from five yards out to give Zahm a 22-0 lead. 
Ddespite tho eareer day, Ossni-Anto, who also rushed for a 41-yard touchdown in the sec­ond quarter, deferred the eredit from himself. 
"I just trusted in my line today," the freshman acknowl­edged. They were really opening up the holes for me. I really did­n't do anything spedal." 
Tell that to the Stedsmen defense, who could seemingly never get ofT the field. In the first half alone, Zahm outgained St. Ed's 115-15, with only one pass attempted. Quarterback Sean Wieland, who had provid­ed most of the scoring through the air this season, only needed to attempt three passes on the day. 
He finished 1-of'-3 for 20 yards, but also ran for Zahm's final score from 5 yards out. Wieland didn't need to throw, because the rushing game was too busy piling up the yardage. 
In all, Zahm gained 220 yards on the ground, rushed. for four scores and physically dominated prepared f'or this game, but we the game. had a hard time getting enough 

Team captain Pat Gourley had guys fiJr practice, bneause many nothing but praise for his worn busy with exams and proj­oJTense. ects." 
"They stepped up Ward notnd again today," "We finally had that despite the Gourley said. "I bye week, his
some rhythm
think both offen­team only man­sively and defen­today, but we still aged to have onn sively, we straight­have a long way to practice. up out-powered With regard to
go.

them. Our oiTensive Zah m 's destruc­line was playing tion of his team's together today. Kyle Rice run defnnse, We're really build­Siegfried captain Ward said, ing team chem­"Thorn's no rna­istry." son f'or them to 
Once again, Gourley pointed to have that mueh suecnss. We def­his team's superior conditioning initely need to eoneentrate on as a reason for their success. this in praeticn." Zahm dominated the line of' Perhaps the only brig_ht spot scrimmage on both sides of the for the Stedsmen eame on spn­ball. cial teams when punter Olivnr 
The defense was just as Gamez blasted a 59-yard punt impressive as the run game, that pinned Zahm at its own forcing seven plays of negative one. yardage, thoroughly shutting Any advantage gained by that down the Stedsmen's offense. play was quiekly nullified as thn Dan Ward, the St. Ed's captain, Bats wnnt the full 99 yards in admitted that he was surprised four plays for thn seorn. that the game turned out so lop­sided. Contact Dan Murphy at dmur­
"This was a learning experi­phy6@nd.edu, Greg Arbogas at ence for our team. We really garbogas@nd.edu and Colin thought that we were mentally Reimer at creimer I @nd.edu 

CLUB SPORTS 
Ostberg leads Notre Dame 
The Irish scored 31 points, 12 behind the leading Boilennakers 
Special to The Observer 
In their season opening show at Saint Mary's of the Woods this weekend, Notre Dame's equestrians earned Team Heserve High Point Honor. 
Their 31 points plaeed the squad second behind Purdue, with 43 points. 
Kelly Ostberg took rirst in opnn fenees, with Alie Minnis in fourth. Molly Sehmiege also gamered a first in inter­mediate f'enens, with Caitlin Landuyt third and Lauren Desrosiers sixth. 
The Irish swept novice fenees, with Megan Murphy, Mary Dorgant, and Brittany 
Gragg finishing first, second and third, respectively. 
Julia Burke and Landuyt tied for second in open nat, with Ostberg and Minnis f'in­ishing fourth and fifth. 
Desrosiers took first in inter­mediate flat, and Murphy, Dorgant, and Gragg again fin­ished first, seeond and third in novice nat. 
Laura Hale placed fourth in walk-trot-canter, while Courtney Hofman also earned a fourth place in walk-trot. 
Landuyt and Dorgant quali­fied for Hegionals with their overall performances. 
Squash 
James Zhang captured first place in the St. Louis MPM Open Squash Tournament in the 4.5 Division. 
Zhang, a former member of the Malaysian national junior team and captain of' the Notre Dame squash dub, mlged .lefT Tomberg of Florida :~-2 in thn first round, thnn swnpt through Bob NeiT of' Lakeshore Club. Chicago, 3-1; Tray Brown of Oklahoma Univ., 3-0; and 
W. Chipo of the MAC St. Louis club, 3-0, in the linals. 
Zhang's final match was played in glass wall court, thn St. Louis Galleria. (Pictures below are from the finals match, Zhang wearing the head bandana. l 
Zhang also entnrnd thn top Open level, 5. 5, where lw defeated Hassan Ahmed of' the University Club in Chieago, :~­0, before fa'lling t.o Conor O'Malley of' the University Club, 3-1. 
Teammate Phil Moss also rnpreson ts Notre Damn in tlw 
3.5 Division. Moss won his first round 3-0 bnl'ore drop­
. ping a 3-1 second round eon­test. 
Sizzl€ inb Belliniv Tuesdays 
Stz~lefie (Sizzlelini00)­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.951 
A sizzling skillet of tender chicken. savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;>-}efie (Bellini)­
A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Ti.iz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for 
lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 4, 2005 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL-WOMEN'S BLUE LEAGUE 
Lyons looks for upset over Cavanaugh tonight 

YOU MUST BE 21 YEARS OF AGE WITH 
A VALID ID TO 


CONSUME ALCOHOL 
AT THESE 
ESTABLISHMENTS. 


EVERY THURSDAY




EVERY WEDNESDAY 
$2 
ANYdrink 
in the house!! 
75¢ 
Well Drinks 
~O~_B~)·is

OPEN MIC NIGHT!! 
$2 
ENORMOUS 
Come play or sing on 
IRISH PUB
Basket of Fries 

stage with our entertainers 
lf" EST.1990 arr ea...e .ue ..4cu: R..-<4-_,_. ~d



GREAT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT EVERY NIGHT!!!! 
100 N. Center St. Mishawaka 



TuESDAYS AND 
(behind Hacienda) 

$1.25 dogs & $1.25 drafts 


THURSDAYS:
(574) 259-7522 

ALL DAY EVERY DAY 

$3.00 PITCHERS 
10% Discount 
$I .00 DOMESTIC 
w/ Student ID 
DRAFTS 
NO COVER!
Karaoke: "Sing Your Way to Vegas" 
$1.00 CANS EVERY 
DAY OF SELECT
Wed 9pm-2pm 
DOMESTICS 

1733 South Bend Ave. 574.277.2527 









Watch all Notre Dame Games­
Monday:

Never a cover Most and Largest 
Karaoke Night, 

with Student ID 
Screens in Town GO IRISH 
$2.50 House Special 
Tuesday: 

2046 South·Bend Ave 
$1.50 Domestic Bottles 

Across from Martins Plaza 
$2.00 Wells 

272-1766 
Wednesday:

MONDAY THURSDAY All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets, Every Thursday Private Party for 
Trivia Night, Monday Night Football on HDTV ND, HC and SMC students 
$3.00 Pitchers 

2nd Penny night. TUESDAY 1~ wells and drafts, ND penny night, $1 off cover with DJ plays hits all night long 
Thursday: student ID, DJ all night, 
$2.00 Imports.1~ wells and drafts FRIDAY 
DJ till 3:00a.m., 
Sunday:

MAI)ISON 0YST'ER BAR
WEDNESDAY pre-game warm up 
Live trivia night with cash prizes 
$10.00 Domestic Buckets 
Three L:\'ds of Eclectic

and free drinks, 1 to 8 people SATURDAY 
Great Drink Specials Eve1yday 
AtnH>sJ>IK·rt· 

per team, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Game day-Go IRISH. Golf, Pool, Fooshall, Dart>, :VIoml<ty: $1 Draughts, M Pitchers 
Kitchen Open Every Day

Defending champs: ND law DJ after games, 
Biq:.Scrceu, 21 -r Tuesday: $2.2!> Call! 
Daily Grill Specials: 49¢ wings, $10.00 buckets till dawn. ESPN game plan 
Legal Eagles. 69¢ bitty burger, celebrate victory and boogie 
\Vednesday: $1.!>0 Domestic Long Necks 
M-Th 4pm-3am
-FiiL·d Oy>ter;­

Thursday: $2.!>0 Imports 
-Seafood l'laun-

Friday: $:-l..'iO il2oz Draughts/ House Pints
-Charhroilcd Strip-
Sat 4pm-3am

$1.50 burgers, dogs, 
-Chops & Bur~ers--Keep the Glass! 
Sun 11am-12midnight

fries and bottles. 
Saturday: $l.'i Buckel :\iix Import
\Vdi-Stockt'd Bar & lmpo11s

NFL Sunday tickets -14 screens. 
574.234.4015

12~J N. Main St(@Coll;Lx), South Bend, IN .'iH.2HH.a77G 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Tonight at Hihele fields at 7 p.m., the Cavanaugh Chaos (4-0) will hope to continue their win­ning ways against tho Lyons Lions {1-3), who hope to linish the season with an upset. 
For the Chaos, last week's win over the Wild Women ol' Walsh nearly cemented their dominance over the Women's 13lue League, as the Chaos were lel't as the only undefeated team left in the women's division. 

Cavanaugh proved their domi­nance on Sunday by shutting out Walsh in a rematch of last year's championship. 
Cavanaugh has still not surren­dered a point to their opponents this year and has not lost in the past two seasons. 
In addition to being dominant on defense, the Chaos offense has provided enough points each game to ensure the win for Cavanaugh. 
On both sides of the football, 

Cavanaugh has made few mis­. takes, either mentally or physi­cally, and has been overpowering 
at times. 
The main goal for the Chaos 

this week has to be to remember 
that the season is not over yet. 
Mental mistakes near the end 

of the season could prove disas­
trous for the Chaos, as an aggres­
sive Lyons team needs every 
chance it can against the domi­
nant Chaos. 
If Lyons hopes to win, they will 

have to somehow contain quar­terback Lisa Ruffer, who has the ability to beat defenses with her arm or her legs. 
Huffer has consistently thrown the ball well and has also run the option and quarterback draws to near perfection. 
Lyons needs to somehow return to their level of play at the begin­ning of the year, when they recorded their one win. 
"We had a lot of young talent earlier in the year," said Lions quarterback Kim Murphy. "It just didn't come together in the end." 
For this game, Lyons has worked to get back to the basics, ineluding getting quarterbacks and receivers more in tune with each other, so that they can improve for next year. 
"We know tpat we can play we.ll, it's just tough against teams like Walsh [who Lyons played in their: last game[ and Cavanaugh," Murphy said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 4, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Chaos 
continued from page 24 
Thn Wild Womnn eamn in avmaging more than 17 points a gamn, but worn facing a Cavanau~h defense that has yet to allow a point this ynar. 
Tlw Chaos defense smoth­nrnd Walsh quarterback Mary Sullivan, intereopting her thrne times and forcing turnovnr-on-downs throe timos as wnll. 
"They havn vnry good ath­lntns. and thny'rn well­c:oadwd," Wild Women coach Brian Burkavagn said of tho Chaos ddnnse. "Thny always snmn to hn in thn right place, and tlwy made plays while our receivnrs didn't." 
The multiple~ turnovnrs gave Cavanaugh a short l'ield to work with, and Chaos quarter­back Lisa Huf'fnr took full advantage~. connncting on 11­of-2:~ attempts for II 0 yards, throe touchdowns and one intnrcoption. 
Al'tnr HutTer complotnd a two-yard touchdown pass to Byrne for a 6-0 load, things took a nasty turn for the Wild Wornnn. On Cavanaugh's ensu­ing two-point conversion attempt, Huffer's follow­through camo down on Walsh captain Mary Ellen Botta. lrnnwdiatnly, Botta collapsed to the ground and did not get up until 20 minutes later, when she was taken orr the finld by an ambulance. 
Tho Wild Women tried to motivate themselves after the long break, but Cavanaugh hold fast with another quick intercnption and touchdown to put thorn up 12-0. 
"Montally, it's hard to stay focused aftnr an injury, but we focusod, played within our­selvns, and it worknd out for us." said Byrnn. 
Going into the second half 
with a 12-0 load, the Chaos ran a methodical offense that seomed to pick up first downs at will. giving the Wild Women little tirnn to make a como­back. Cavanaugh ran 33 plays from scrimmage and convert­ed sevnn first downs, while Walsh snapped the ball 26 tirnos and movod the chains just threo times during tho gamn 
"In the second half we just wantnd to slow down thn tnmpo so thny'd feel rushed when they had the ball," Byrne said. 
With tho much-anticipated gamn now behind them, Burkavagn is already looking forward to the nnxt time they will mont. 
"This is just one game. llopofully we'll get another shot at them in the playoffs, when it really matters," Burkavage said. 
Byrnn was just as focused on the future. 
"It was nice, but now it's over, and we need to focus on the playoffs because it all starts over fresh, and if' we meet them again we need to be just as focused. We can't afford to be complacent," Byrne said. 
Howard 6, Badin 6 
On her birthday, Catherine Krug gave a present to the rest of her team. The lloward defensive back returned an interception 90 yards for a touehdown, allowing the Ducks to force a 6-6 tie with the Badin Bullfrogs. 
Badin opened the scoring on its first possession with a touehdown pass from quarter­back Katie Hose Hackney to Courtney Hains. Hackney madn two solid runs on the drivfl set up after lloward was forced to punt on its first pos­session. 
On lloward's subsequent possnssion. thfly once again got a first down, but then were forced to punt. The Bullfrogs marched the ball up the field, but Howard began to show its strength as a red-zone defense and made Badin turn the ball over on downs. Howard was then three and out, and after a fil'ty-yard punt return by cap­tain Meg Charlebois, the Bullfrogs had excellent f'ield position with time running down. Artnr a twenty-yard completion to Hains, Hackney threw the interception to Krug. 
Krug's score came after Badin captain Meg Charlebois returned a punt 50 yards to give the Bullfrogs excellent field position. Hackney then threw a 20-yard pass to Hains, but the fun stopped when Krug picked ofT the pass. 
In the seeond half, Badin's offense startnd strong with another big pass to Hains, this time for 35 yards before Howard got another timely in tnrception. 
However, the Duck offense continued to struggle as they punted or turned the ball over on downs their remaining four possessions of the game. Badin had two more chances to score, but going for a big play, Hackney throw another inter­ception. The Duck defense held when it counted and moved Howard one step closnr to its first win this season. 
"We will be looking for our first win next week," captain Callie Whelan said. 
The Ducks hope quarterback Shenna Ketchum will be ready, as she was injured in the last snconds of the game. 
Meanwhile, Badin Coach Doar said, Badin is also eager for the rest of the season. 
"We look forward to doing well against Lewis and getting a chance to make the play­offs," Badin coach Charles Doar said. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu and Ben Vincent at bvincent@nd.edu 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Morrissey do111inates in vvin over Keough 
Klein rushes for 141 yards on 18 carries as the Manorites roll 
By JAMES FEGAN and JIM 
BRADY Sports Writers 
Nick Klein's last run of the game was a 17-yard touch­down, capping a dominant afternoon for the Morrissey captain who finished with 18 carries for 141 yards and two second-half touchdowns in the Manorites' victory. 
Klein and the Morrissey offense ran early and often, racking up 184 yards rushing as a team and slowly wither­ing Keough's stout defense. Their powerful rushing attack put distance between them and Keough when it appeared the Kangaroos had gained momentum. 
Arter leading 7-0 at the half, Morrissey appeared to be in control or the tempo, but Keough's defense had kept them in range. 
Morrissey lost the momen­tum when Keough wide receiver Matt Belton broke free from his man and caught quarterbaek Faustin Weber's deep pass in stride, running 80 yards to the score. 
Looking to snatch the lead, Keough went for two but came up empty when half­back Mike Anello was knocked out of bounds just as he tried to reach the ball towards the pylon. 
The referee's ruling that Anello was out of bounds was a great source or controversy, but it soon became irrelevant when Klein scored touch­downs of' 14 and 1 7 yards to put Morrissey up 21-6 and seal up the game. 
Morrissey established the running game early with a touchdown on its opening drive. 
The drive consisted entirely of running until quarterbaek Mike Spencer caught the Keough defense off guard with a 7-yard play action pass to fullback Steve Klein in the front corner of the end zone. 
Keough looked to answnr when Weber completed a deep pass, but as thn receiv­er raced to the end zone, Morrissey defensive back Dan Keyesa ripped the ball 
away,  possibly  saving  a  
touchdown.  
Keyesa  later  added  an  

interception in the second half'. 
"We only made one mistake on defense all game, and our offense made up for it, the ofTnnsive linn in particular," Kinin said. 
The loss puts Keough's playoff' hopes in jeopardy as thny fall to 0-2-1. and Morrissey has opnnnd with a 2-0 start. 
Keough belinvos thorn is reason to keep hopns alive, with tlw manner in whieh passing gamn suecnndnd early against a tough Morrissny defense. 
"Wn madn a fnw mistakns," Keough player-coach Brian Lango said. "But tho passing gamn was good today. Wn havn to get the running game back on track though." 
Keenan 21, Stanford 0 
As nxpnetnd, "thn Battle~ for the Chapel" was hard-fought again this year. But in tho nnd, Keenan prevailed over Stanford in a 21-0 decision that was eloser than the final scorn indicated. 
Tho Keenan dynamic duo of' quarterback Hob Coly to wide receiver Dan Znnknr accounted for all three touchdowns. 
"I Dan Zenker was I unstop­pable, he was amazing," 
Stanford  captain  Phil  
McNicholas said.  
Keenan's  running  back  

Alex Staffieri ran well early to open the passing game. 
A banged up Keenan defnnse also did a great job of stopping thn attacking Stanford offense, with play­ers such as Jon Pappas filling in for injured startnrs. 
Throughout thn gamn, Stanford was able to move thn ball, but it was unable to put any points on tlw board. 
On tho final drive of the game, Stanford was moving the ball whnn rncoivnr Dave Sondnrman suffered a snri­ous lng injury that caused a game stoppage. 
Sondnrman broke two bones in his leg, and although Stanford dneidod to continuo tho gamn, the Griffins could not score ­they were stopped on the 4­yard line with no time on the clock. 
Both teams came out with a large love! of' intensity, but it was Kennan who was able to ultimately pull out the win, moving the Knights to 2-1 on the season. 
Stanford drops to 1-1 after winning its soasc!Jl opnnnr and will look to rnbound quickly in order to put its playofl' hopns back on track. 
The groat eompntition this gamn providnd left the spne­tators dreaming about what kind of tnam thny would have if those dorms connnctnd by a chapnl combinod f'orcns on the football linld. 

Write Sports Call Mike at 1­
4543 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 4, 2005 
Bye 
continued from page 24 
road 'games and four games against ranked opponents. After finishing that stretch with a 4-1 record, including Saturday's 49-28 drubbing of Purdue, first-year Irish coach Charlie Weis likes what he sees. 
"My whole party line walking in the door was a mentality that I wanted the team to take, and I'd say more than anything else the team has taken that men­tality," Weis said on Monday, one day after he usually holds his press conference. "That pleases me as much as wins and losses; that your team is going out there, playing hard, expecting to win every time you go on the field." 
Weis said this week will be devoted to three things: getting the starters rest, getting the second team some playing time and both scouting USC and reeruiting high school players. 
"For the guys who play most of the snaps, I want this to be more of a week to heal their bumps and bruises," Weis said. "That means that you put pres­sure on them mentally but you don't put any pressure on them physically. You put as little physical pressure on them as you can." 
Players that have been hurt include two starters -offen­sive lineman Bob Morton and wide receiver Rhema McKnight, who both did not play Saturday. Morton dressed for the game but did not play, and McKnight has not seen time since injuring himself against Michigan on Sept. 10. In addition, no players are available to the media this week, just Weis and assistant coaches. 
Weis said he and his staff not only have more time to prepare for USC, but he also has time to send coaches on the road to recruit". 
"Wednesday night, seven of [the assistant coaches[ are hop­ping on a plane and flying out there because two of the six days we are using for recruiting are going to be Thursday and Friday of this week.~' Weis said of his staff, which numbers nine assistant coaches in total. "So seven of our staff members will be on the road recruiting on Thursday and Friday. We'll have a skeleton screw in here for Thursday's practice." 
Meanwhile, while Notre Dame is off, the defending national champions, who have won 26 games in a row, will face Arizona (1-2) at home on Saturday. The Trojans, led by last year's Heisman Trophy winner Matt Leinart and run­ning back Reggie Bush, have scored 63, 70, 45 and 38 points, respectively, in their first four games. 
USC has had the best of' this rivalry in the past three years. winning last season at the Coliseum 41-10, the year before at Notre Dame Stadium, 45-14, and in 2002, 44-13. 
This year's USC team is not much ditTerent from the teams that have beaten the Irish for three straight seasons. 
"As long as the system is the same, you definitely watch all of' last year's games," Weis said. "So even though their offensive coordinator [Norm Chow, who now coaches for the Tennessee TitansI left, the system is still the same. And Pete !Carroll] is the defense coordinator. so that didn't change. So when you are watching both sides of' the ball, as long as the system stay the same there's a lot of value in watching the previous year and then you always watch your own team play against them for personnel matchups to see how those went based on who was there ... But there's definitely in this case both offensively and defensively, a lot of carryover from the previous year." 

Weis said he will need all the time he can to not only prepare for the Trojans, but to deter­mine how the Irish are going to attack them. 
"As far as game planning, I like it, because by this time I have already watched a bunch of Southern Cal tape and this is two weeks before we play them," Weis said. "I am going to have to watch a whole bunch of more, but the good thing is before we get through the mid­dle of this week I will have watched everything I have needed to watch. 
"Now the question [ofl whether or not you can come up with enough. good stuff to find what they do isn't as big a problem as finding what you are going to do against them. That's the bigger problem." 
Notes: 
+ 
Weis said Monday that defensive lineman Trevor Laws will be the special teams cap­tain for the game against USC after blocking a field goal at Purdue on Saturday.

+ 
After Brady Quinn's career day on Saturday (440 yards, three touchdowns, one inter­ception), Weis was quick to praise his quarterback. 


"I would be remiss if I didn't talk about the performance of the quarterback because he was outstanding." Weis said Monday. "And I don't say that very often. I don't use that word very often. I hope I am using it more often, but I thought he was just exception­al, the way he managed the game and I thought he played very well." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

YOUi CATEiiNG $0LUTIONUl 
BOX LUNCHES. PLATTERS, PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery charge per item. 

FREEBIES {SUBS & CLUBS ONLY) Onion, lettuce, alfalfa sprouts. tomato, mayo, sliced cucumber, Oijon mustard, oil & vinegar. and oregano. 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK!! 
54570N.IRONWOODDR. SOUTH BEND/MISHAWAKA 5343N.MAINST. 
57 4.277.8500 574.968.4600 
''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOf.IN'S!" @ 

Tuesday, October 4, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Thompsons take the court as singles Thursday 
CLUB SPORTS 
Irish travel to compete in Kyle Mcgarity Invitational 
Special to The Observer On Saturday morning, the Spartans. The squad battled Coming out of bracket play 1-region. The Irish were unable 
Irish first dispatched the MSU for four quarters, leading 1 meant the Irish would be to convert snvnral scoring 
This past weekend Notre Hoosiers easily, 14-5, with a for most of the first half. until a matched against No. 11 Miami opportunities and droppml their Dame's No. 15 mnns water polo high-powered offense lnd by Spartan scoring run in the third (011) for the third game of the opener, 4-0, to James Madison. cluh l.ravnlnd to Miami two-meter man Matt period put the Irish three goals day. In the sncond ganw, a North University (011) to competn in McNicholas, freshman Patrick behind going into the !ina] peri­.corning off a tough loss gave Carolina State loam featuring a tlw Kyle Mcgarity Invitational. Connors, and junior Steve od. the Irish the motivation to go coed squad jumpnd out to an 
Tho Irish were placed in a. Shepard. The Irish were able pull with­out in front of the big Miami early lead, seoring in thn open­bracket with Indiana and No. 1 Tlw next game matched the in one twice, but ran out oftime, home crowd and make a state­ing live minutes. Michigan State. Irish against the undefeated losing to MSU 13-11. ment. Irish Freshman Lynda Pnarl 

l!NIVEI~SITY OF NOTHE DAME INTERNATIONAL STlJDY PROGRAM IN 
PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2006-7 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFES:S'OR XAVIERJ..4RDIN, SCIENCES-PO, PARIS CLAUDIA KSELMAN. ND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2005 
5:00 PM 202 DBRT 
At the end of the game, that statement was a 14-7 thrashing of the host tnam. 
Seniors Mike Silhasek and Greg Szewczyk led the Irish to the win with several break­aways and some tough perime­ter defense. 
Sophomore Colin Dunn was huge in two-meter defense as well. 
That win placed the Irish in the fifth place game against tho ravored No. 6 Michigan Wolverinns. 
Entering the game, no Irish team in the history of' the pro­gram had defeated U of M. Ilowever, this Irish team carnd little for that history, instead writing a little of their own as they bmtt the Wolverines R-6. 
Once again, McNicholas was brilliant at two-meters. as Shepard, Connors, and sopho­more Zhan Wei Khaw also scored. 
Consistent with his play all weekend, senior goalkeepnr Scott Tagwnrker stul'fnd the Michigan attack at several key moments as the contest was winding down, keeping the Irish on top. 
With great play and results like this, the 9-3 Irish now look to be ranked umong the top live or six teams in the nation, and are delinitr~ly looking rorward to their rematch with thn Spartans next weekend at the Northwestern Invite. 
Field hockey 
Notre Dame's field hockey club won one of three contests this weekend at the Virginia Teeh Invitational. 
The eight-team lield was eom­prised of the best teams in the thnn nvened tho scorn with a highlight lilm move. As the ball caromed off tho goalin's pads. Pearl lirnd a revnrse stick slap shot into the far eornnr of thn goal. 
This ignited the Irish and sophomore l>aninlln Fndnln scored a fnw minutns later on a cross in front of' thn NC Stat11 goal for a 2-l halftimn lnad. 
An narly ol1'11nsivn rush in tho second half fore11d tlw Wolf'p1u:k goalie to c·.over tho ball, giving tho Irish a pnnalty stroke. 
Sophornorn Marie Chnrvaniek scored as lwr shot found tho bottom-right c:ornnr of' tho goal post. Later in tlw half. Chnrvanick assistnd junior Meredith Cluck who ril'llnd home a shot to tlw goalie's weak sidn making the linal sc:orn 4-1. 
An exhaustnd Irish squad playing with only a two suhs throughout tho wneknnd. foil in tho last garnn to thn host llokies, 3-0. 
Catlwrinn Dully made snveral outstanding saves to keep tlw seem~ dostl for most of tlw eon­test. 
Women's running 
Members of tho Notrn Danw women's running dub eompntnd as individuals in this wnnknnd's Salmon Chase Hun in South Bend. 
Jen Hichard and Laura Cass finished 1-2 in the women's nvnnt, whiln Anno Marin Faynn captured lirst in llw 19-24 linld. 
In tho 14-1 R l'inld, Marin Badnr and Bnekii Dorner fin­ished a strong 1-2 as well. 
Several mmnbnrs of' the club also assisted HneSports in con­ducting last wnnknnd's success­ful Domer Hun. 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Christian and Catrina Thompson have made history on the doubles court. 
Tw~sday. the sisters will look to make a name for tlwmselves on Uw singles court whon they take on the field in the qualifying round of the ITA All Amorican Championships in Pacilk l'alisadtlS, Calif'. 
The tournament is tlw first of three collegiate l!mnis grand slams and features the nation's best players. The wfloklong com­petition limtures three stages ­a pre-qualifying round. a qualily­ing round and a final round, whkh starts Thursday. 
The Thompsons linished see­ond in the doubles draw last ynar. Their high ranking -sce­ond in tlw ITA -allowNI them to skip the first two stages of the tournanwnt. 
The sistors will begin doubles play Thursday in the linal stage's round of 16. 
Singles action began this wenk­end lilr Christian Thompson. who advanced out or the pre-qualily­ing stage in singles. The junior won three matehes in straight sets, dereating Emily Kirchem or Colorado State, Natalie Braverman llf Colorado State and Kelly Anderson of Georgia Tech. All three play~ers were ranked betwmm 100 and 125 in the ITA. Thompson. who entered the tournament unranked, lost just 14 games in her throe victories. 
Assistant coach Miehello Dasso eredited Christian Thompson's success ovor tho weekend to improved eonditioning. 
"ller kneo was bothering her a lot last year," Dasso said. "She lost a lot of' conlidnnce. Now she's staying hoalthy and has been playing vory well out here. Her eonditioning has helped her a lot, especially with the heat out here." 
Christian Thompson will begin play Tuesday morning when she races Nika Koukhartchouk of Mississippi. She could face the tournament's No. 7 -seed Sabrina Cappannolo of Arizona State in the second round. Both Christian and Catrina Thompson will have to win three matches over the next two days to advance to the final stage of the singles tourna­ment. 
Dasso was optimistic about Christian Thompson's chances of advancing through the draw. 
"I think she's got a great chance," Dasso said. "She gained a lot of confidence this weekend, and i think it was good for her to play those matches early this week. She's at her best when she uses a variety of shots, mixing it up with slices and top spins like she did this weekend." 
Christian's sister Catrina did not have to play the pre-qualify­ing round because of her No. 27 national ranking. She will be tak­ing to the court ror her first match of the year Tuesday when she faces Berecz Boglarka of Florida. 
Catrina Thompson, the number two seed in the qualifying tour­nament, will not have to face another seeded player until the third round. Dasso said that Catrina will look to use her stron'g groundstrokes to over­power her opponents this week in singles. 
Coach Dasso said that doubles 
I 

The Thompson twins prepare themselves for a match last April with William & Mary. They will play solo matches Thursday. 
will be the sisters' focus this in doubles knpt thn level of mm­week. However, she felt that petition in perspeetivn. playing singles could only help "They are playing wnll, and their doubles game later in the they have improved sirH:n last week. year. Thny arn mentally tougher. 
"They both have a great But this is one of the best tourna­chance in the singles," she said. ments of the year. It's very eorn­"It will help them in doubles too. petitivn and there are no easy The longer you are out here and matches." the more comfortable you get, the better off you are." Contact Ryan Kiefer at 
Dasso's outlook for the sisters rkiefer@nd.edu 

Walls 
continued from page 24 
injury has kept him from playing defense this year, but he has been suiting up at run­ning back for his 6-0 team. 

"/ think he really 
Despite the come Oct. 15 injury, Walls says likes [Irish coach when the Irish he will be back Charlie] Weis and take on Southern 
for the state play­California. He
the rest ofthe
off's and ready to has visited cam­go next season, staff:' pus several times when he expects on unotllcial Vis­to have a chance its, most recently 
Mike Frank 
at playing as a last June. 
lrisheyes~com
true freshman. Notes: Weis and the rest of the staff. They did a fantastic job recruit­ing him." 
Walls made his official visit to Pittsburgh during the weekend of the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game on Sept. 3. He has not yet made his official visit to Notre Dame but is scheduled to 
Most recruiting Web sites, including Scout.com and Rivals.com, believe Walls had his choices narrowed to Pittsburgh and Notre Dame before he made his announce­ment Monday. 
However, Frank believes Notre Dame was in front from the beginning. "I think [Walls] kind of knew where he wanted to go since spring," Frank said. "I think he really likes [Irish coach Charlie] 

+ Brown is listed on Scout.com as a "soft verbal," but the 6-foot-2, 190 lb. safety from Proviso East High School in Maywood, Ill., says he is intent on signing with the Irish in Feb. However, he is scheduled to take visits to LSU, Minnesota, Nebraska and Illinois while also visiting Notre Dame on Dec. 2. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 

Irish take hoine fifth at Michigan State 
Special to The Observer 
A split squad permitted Notre Dame's sailing club to compete in two events this weekend. 
The Irish claimed fifth place in Michigan State's Cedarfest Hegatta. 
Skipper Chris May and crew Amy Becker took fourth in the A Division, while skipper 
Tricia Hughes and crew Kerry Killbourn finished sixth in the B Division. 
The host Spartans won the event, followed by Ohio State, Wisconsin, Miami and Notre Dame in the top five. 
John Carrroll, Purdue, Michigan Blue, Michigan Maize, Bowling Green, Nnrthwestern, Iowa, Hope and Western Michigan completed the fourteen-team field. 
Michigan also hosted a four­teen-team field at the Cary Price Intersectional at the Grosse Point Yacht Club. 
The Wolverines claimed overall first place, followed by Minnesota, Wisconsin, Texas, Miami OH, Notre Dame, Purdue, Northwestern, Ohio, Cornell. Indiana, Western Michigan, Ohio State and Washington. 
Irish skipper Tim Roy and crew Dave Coviak finished ninth in the A Division, while skipper John Dailey and crew Paul Cordes took fourth in the B Division. 
Ultimate 
Michigan played host this weekend to the Best of the Midwest Tournament in Ann Arbor in both men's and women's action. 
Vasili Karas, Ryan Butler, and Andrew Sheehan led the Irish to a third place finish in the men's event, while cap­tains Lizzy Shiel and Chrissy lledges posted impressive per­formances in leading the women to three wins in four contests. 
In men's opening day pool play, a stringent Irish defense featuring Sean McCarthy, Dave LeDonne and Mike Flolrack, limitl;ld opponents to only nine points on the day. 

Ryan Gorman and Daniel Reimer controlled the skies in the end zone all day as the Irish defeated Eastern Michigan, 13-2, Michigan B, 13-3, and Purdue, 13-4. 
The Irish opened play Sunday against powerhouse Ohio State and after falling behind early, rallied for a 13-6 victory, setting up the show­down with No. 9 ranked Michigan. 
In a see saw contest that found both teams scoring early and often, the game came down to game point, tied at 9-9. The Wolverine offense slowly worked the disc into the end zone for their 10-9 victory. 
The women's competition was just as exciting and played at an equally high level. Freshmen Katie Bilek and XiuTian Khaw moved the attack quickly as the Irish opened with a 13-1 win over Case Western. 
The second round proved the highlight for the Irish as the stellar play of Chris Dube on attack and freshman Adi Nott on defense propelled the squad to an 11-9 win over defending Great Lakes Region champion Purdue, 11-9. 
The Irish did not fare as well against Michigan in the third game, falling 12-6. Shiel's and Hedges' curving deep throws to receivers in the end zone and Kasey Farrel's sharp cuts for her handlers and her solid short passes kept the Irish close through much of the contest. 
In their fourth mateh, the Irish triumphed over Ohio Northern, 13-4. Sophomores Shields, Duss and Shannon Morrison showed their han­dling skills with strong passes downfield to classmate Loretta Brown. 
The Irish wrapped up the tournament with a 13-5 victo­ry over Michigan Team II, to finish 4-1 and second in the event. 
Ga01e 
continued from page 24 
have some friendly bragging rights on the line. 
"Not only the players go at it, but the coaches Idol also," Mainieri said. 
First-year assistant coach Cliff Godwin will coach the Gold, and veteran Terrey Rooney will lead the Blue. 
Mainieri called the series "intense and pressure-packed." 
"It's a little World Series that really creates a lot of high drama and high pressure," he said. 
The draft happened, and the sides are set. This afternoon junior Jeff Manship will take the mound for the Gold, and heralded freshman David Phelps -from St. Louis' Hazelwood High -will take the hill for the Blue. 
Mainieri is excited about the upcoming spring season due to a nearly injury-free fall season, which has allowed for competi­tive scrimmages and drills. 
The only off-season il)juries the Irish have had to deal with were sophomore third/second baseman Brett Lilley's back injury, which will keep him out until the spring, and junior pitcher Dan Kapala's season­ending shoulder injury. 
Lilley will have surgery this Thursday to fix an &ggravation that occurred during the regionals last spring and ham­pered him when he traveled to play summer ball. He will then rehabilitate for about eight weeks, Mainieri said. 
Kapala injured his shoulder in the final week of the Cape Cod Summer League after playing well for most of the summer. Mainieri compared his injury to former Irish pitch­er Grant Johnson's shoulder strain during his Notre Dame career. Johnson recovered and 
finished a stellar career with 
the Irish. 

Still, with nearly every posi­
tion player returning and loads 
of experience, Notre Dame has 
great depth. 

The Irish lost first baseman 
Matt Edwards from last year's 
regional championship club 
that fell to eventual national 
runner-up Florida, but senior 
Craig Cooper will replace him. 

Cooper played first base at 
times last season and also 
played in the outfield. His 
offensive power is one of his 
biggest assets. And Mainieri 
said Cooper is looking "really 
good over there" at the first­
base bag. 

. In another shift, senior Matt 
Bransfield has moved to left 
field. lie also saw quality time 
last season. Throughout his 
career, Bra~sfield has played 
catcher, designated hitter and 
a few other positions. 

Each of those seniors hit over 
.300 last season. Cooper hit 
.325, while Bransfield hit .313. 
Cooper was second on the 
team in runs batted in with 58. 
Despite Kapala's absence, 
Mainieri likes what he sees ·from his pitching staff, also. He 
believes this could be one of 
the toughest ever. 

"I think that Manship, [Jeff] 
Samardzija and [Tom] 
Thortnon will just be an out­
standing rotation," he said. "I 
expect them to be our rotation. 
''I'm so pleased with the way 
our pitchers have played in fall 
practice. We've really devel­
oped a deep pitching staff. The 
guys that are returning really 
showed a lot of improvement. 
And we've got some freshmen 
pitchers who are really going 
to help a great deal also." 

Manship was 2-1 with a 3. 97 
earned run average after sit· 
ting out for part of last season 
after recovering form "Tommy 
John" surgery. Samardzija fin· 
ished 8·1 with a 3.89 earned run average. Thornton finished 6-6 with a 4.69 earned run average and was the work­horse with 96 innings pitched. 
Today and Wednesday, the games will be five innings long, and Thursday's rubber match will be seven innings in order to limit the pitch counts. 
"Both teams are using our pitchers," Mainieri said. "It's 17 innings, like playing 34. So a pitcher will pitch no more than five innings or 55 pitches. We have to be smart about it and make sure nobody gets hurt." 
Just in case the average fan is looking for the newcomers later today, the freshmen will not have their names and numbers because they haven't been ordered yet, Mainieri said. 
Overall, Mainieri said he couldn't be more pleased with the team's progress in fall practice. 
"We've had some great com­petition the entire fall. We've got some freshmen position players that are really compet­ing hard. Our depth is so much better. 
"It's really created a nice, healthy competitive situation. I couldn't be more pleased with the way fall practice has gone. I think we're ready to have an outstanding season in the spring." 
Besides the aforementioned depth of the Irish and their competitive side, their attitude has also been excellent. 
"The attitude of the players has been tremendous, the focus," Mainieri said. "They're energetic and playing very pas­sionately, very fundamentally sound, I really do believe that we'II play at the level that is commensurate of our abilities ... to have a good season in the spring." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 

Tuesday, October 4th 
(and every first Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The student members of the 
Standing Committee on Gay 
and Lesbian Student Needs 
invite gay, -lesbian, and 
bisexual members of the 
Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to 
an informal coffee at the· 
Co-Mo. 

Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 


Tuesday, October 4, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 
No NO Se;.N D "THeM ONE 7iilll-;' lll<f::_· r, NoW '/0~ HAVE ·70 '-l-iANL:1E youF:-PA':>'>WOJ<....f) 
t:.VE~.'I IO PA'/'::.-AND IT 1--fP..S ·-ro BE BKE A_~~/'I'ST FoO\)-O!<!.le:NTE.D 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
MORGO 
j

I I [ I I 
1.02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LOUFT 
I ( J lu 
PUSHTY 
THE: 5TRE:E:T PEO­DL..E:R'5 WARE:5 WE:RE: AL..WAY5--­

I I I 

www.jumble.com 
1 
DIFOMY 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

CIJ I I 
Print answer here: 

CIIIJ"CIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: COUPE KHAKI SNITCH SONATAYesterday's Answer: 
For the champ, it was a good night for­"KNOCKOUTS" 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 34 Magic org. 59 Derby 1 Bit of dandruff 35 Feathery 60 "I smell !" 6 Drivers' aids 61 Perfect places 
scarves 36 Very humble

10 Captain of the 62 Took it on the 
home

Pequod lam 14 Debussy 63 Candied tubers
38 Score for a 34-Across

contemporary 64 Like Vikings
player

Erik 39 Satisfied sighs
15 Cart part DOWN40 1952 Hope/16 "Damn 1 Shutterbug's Crosby "Road" Yankees" vamp setting
destination 17 Document 2 Caterpillar, for
41 Pool part?

shown at border one patrol 
42 Rubbernecker 3 Internet at the Ritz,

19 Writer Harte commerce
perhaps20 Prefix with duct 4 Opposite of 
46 Fuss with 21 Yeats or Keats military: Abbr. 
feathers 22 Cape Canaveral 47 Zilch 
5 Button one's lips event 6 Pub 
51 Celestial 24 California Seasonings 7 Off-ramp observatory 
alternative a Raised railroads 26 Salon jobs 53 Gin flavorer 9 Denver is way 27 Fixation 54 "So there you above it 
indication !" 10 Philatelists' 31 Meager 55 Long stretches books 11 Interrupts
33 Served up a 56 Part of a suit of 30 Catch a few Z's 38 Sister and wife 50 Abrupt whopper armor 12 Knighted of Zeus 
31 Arty Manhattan 51 Lowly laborer Guinness 40 Ran in the wash
district

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 The Wife of 52 Asia's fast­
41 Settled a score 
(Chaucer story 32 The cellar shrinking_
43 Rubbed out orz A p 
p A I' 
A I s H A 'J'E'T teller) Sea

35 "Balderdash!" off 18 Credit union 53 Ore deposit 
E T H A N I S L E T 'Q 1f~ 
36 Participate in 44 Estuaries8 E A T T BA T '5 'r'li offering 

RUSHEE 
w1fTT1i~7J 

decision-making 45 Labor saver 57 -Ia-Ia
-23 Like the

pA 
ES.RCA TAl 

48 More despicable 
Kalahari 37 Lena of 58 Words of 
"Chocolat" 49 Steam items commitment
~lTHEDEAl 

25 Elevator
LUM 
IRS.BARE 

pioneer Elisha 
ERU 
1JA SIREN 

26 Ballerina's bend For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 0 vAl 
+ITl 

As 

28 The King credit card, 1-800-814-5554. F I l l T H~l l 
(subject of four Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
AHA 
ACE.MA 

"sightings" crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
A F G H A N S C L I Q U E 
elsewhere in Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
>;-T'rr "FA 
K EITIE c A K E this puzzle) past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 

1fEF I N 
AIWIE A R B 0 R 

29 Cousin of an Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
....__ __
'o"AF 
SATED ROANS 

English horn solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community . 
• 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to:. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kaci Lyn Battaglia, 18; Ashlcc 
Simpson,.21; Eric von Detten, 23; Neve Campbell. 32 ' 
Happy Birthday: A chance to catch up and take on some fabulous new projects looks awesome for the coming year. You shoLJid be able to take whatever you have learned over the past couple of years and apply it to your career objectives. Advancement and financial gain are in the stars if you put in the effort and stick to a budget. Your numbers are I 0, 13, 25, 31, 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Changes made at home will do you a lot of good. You will have an excellent eye for pulling things together with lt1bulous results. Your money situation will stabilize and a real estate opportunity looks promising. 
*** 

TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Get busy managing any ditlicult matters at work. You can make a jump from one job to another if you strategically manipulate your move. A unique approach to whatever you do will hring support. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do something for yourself A new outfit, look or even a little cosmetic manipulation will help you build your confidence hack up. You may want to book your next vacation to an exotic location. Love is looking good. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be careful how you handle personal issues today. Not everyone will see things your way, and chances arc very good you will end up doing things alone if you arc too pushy. Make changes to yourself instead of trying to change others. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A short trip will lead you in a new direction. You will be able to pick up valuable infonnation that confirms you arc doing the right thing. A partnership will turn out. to be more unique than you imagined..... VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Everything will depend on what you arc doing to earn your living. The more you depend on others, the less likely you arc to be able to make changes. You need to move in a direction that will allow you to expand your horizons. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Usc your creativity to help you through this rather hectic and confusing day. The more versatile you arc, the better you will do. Think outside the box and you will grab other people's interest. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have to take a totally difTcrcnt approach in order to get around some of the obstacles you face. It's hard to make people with less vision see things your way. Work quietly behind the scenes. • ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You have to network if you want to get ahead. Career moves will be advantageous. Concentrate on getting ahead in the business world by connecting with people in the industry. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stick to what you know and do best. You will be criticized ifyou make even the slightest mistake today. Don't get involved in gossip or stretch the truth. Be prepared to defend yourself ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You willleam so much today if you listen to people with experience. A love connection can be made with someone who will change your future. Re-evaluate your motives regarding your personal and professional life. ****• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The emphasis will be on money, health and legal 
....

matters today. Take care ofany pending problems. A chance to make a financial gain is present. Changes may not be welcome but they will be good for you. 
*** 

Birthday Baby: You have savvy, sophistication and an open mind. You arc sensitive, artistic and passionate, as well as anxious, proud and a little bit stubborn. You are a leader and a diplomat. 
E~genia~\' Web sites: a\·troadvice.com jhrfrm. eugenialtt\'l.com for co~fidential consultaliom 
•
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _________ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, October 4, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Defensive back Walls verbally co111111its to Notre Da111e 
Sergio Brown announced his ment at a 9 a.m. Monday press Mike Frank of Irishyes.com Raeshon McNeil and Asher Allen. 
By MIKE GILLOON 

intention to conference at Woodland Hills believes this commitment is McNeil committed to Notre Dame Sports Editor play for the High School in Pittsburgh. "huge" for the Irish, especially Aug. 15 while Allen is headed to Irish. · Pittsbur_gh and Michigan were with a secondary that ranks No. Georgia. 
Notre Dame landed one of the Players are the two other schools that Walls 112 nationally. Walls also talked about Irish most sought-after recruits in the not allowed to seriously considered. "Notre Dame has struggled to coach Charlie Weis having a nation Monday morning when sign binding He enjoyed the football atmos­land the elite corner prospects in major impact on his decision. Woodland Hills (Pa.) cornerback letters of phere at all three schools but recent years," Frank said. "So "[Weis] said they'd love to have Darrin Walls verbally committed intent until . said Notre Dame was on a higher this is a big pickup. He's a guy me," Walls said. "He said I was to the Irish, bringing their total February. level because of its academics. who can take over a game. The his No. 1 guy." number of commitments to 19. Walls, rated "I would say their 98 percent type of guy you put on your best Walls recorded 52 tackles and 
He is the second verbal com­the No. 1 cor-graduation rate is what made receiver." four interceptions last season for mitment Notre Dame has nerback in [the Irish]stand out," he said in Frank mentioned that Notre Woodland Hills. A shoulder secured since last Tuesday, when America by an interview with The Observer Dame's first three cornerback Maywood (Ill.) defensive back Hivals.com, made his announce-Monday. offers this season were Walls, see WALLS/page 22 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Carroll and Cavanaugh roll opponents 
The Vermin defeated Fisher, 28-0, led by QB Kory Wilmot 
By DAN MURPHY, GREG 
ARBOGAS and COLIN 
REIMER 
Sports Writers 
Midway through the fourth quarter, Carroll's Kory Wilmot lofted an 18-yard fade to Paul Tassanari for his second touch­down reception of the game. The grab gave Carroll a 28-0 lead and sealed the win over Fisher. 
For the second year in a row, the Vermin have come out on top and will keep possession of the Cricket Stick. "The stick" is awarded to the victors of this 
see VERMIN/page 17 


ALLISON AMBROSE and PAMELA LOCK/The Observer At left, Carroll quarterback Kory Wilmot throws a pass in Sunday's 28-0 win over Fisher. At right, a Badin receiver makes a catch in Sunday's victory against Howard. 
Rematch of title game sees dominance from reigning champions 
By JACK THORNTON and BEN VINCENT Sports Writers 
In a rematch of last year's championship game, Cavanaugh made a statement Sunday afternoon, shutting out previously undefeated Walsh 18-0. 
"Ever since we lost to them in the championship game, we've been ·waiting for a chance to beat them," Chaos captain Rachel Byrne said. "It felt good to prove that we can play with them, and even above them." 
see CHAOS/page 19 
BASEBALL 

Coaches draft tea111s for intrasquad game 
Annual contest will 

.... 
take place the next 
three days at home 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
For the next three days, at 4 p.m. each afternoon, the

• 
Irish baseball team will hold its annual "Blue, Gold Intrasquad Series" -a unique off-season practice. 
Unlike other sports' off-sea­son scrimmages, two of the baseball team's top assistant coaches drafted this week's competing squads from the roster.· That means the games will be more evenly matched, more realistic. 

"We've been doing this every year," said head coach Paul Mainieri, entering his 12th season at the team's helm. "We have a draft, so there are 13 guys on one team and 14 guys on the other. It's a very intense series,-and everyone's very passionate about it." 
The coaches have a healthy rivalry and the teammates 
see GAME/page 22 
FOOTBALL 
Bye's timing appropriate 
Irish need the break to prepare for Oct. 15 against Southern Cal 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
With five games under their belt, the Irish get a quick and timely breather before taking on No. 1 Southern California on Oct. 15 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
No. 12 Notre Dame has this week off after a five-game stretch that consisted of four 
see BYE/page 20 





Nfl 
SMC SOCCER 

Catrina and Christian 
NFL commissioner
Lyons looks to upset 
Saint Mary's plays at
Morrissey 21 

Panthers 32 
Thompson will take the 
Cavanaugh in tonight's 
Paul Tagliabue said that 
home today against
Keough 6 

Packers 29 
court sepera tel y in 
game against last year's 
an expansion to ~exico 
Kalamazoo in an MIAA

Morrissey dominated 
Carolina prevailed in 
singles matches on 
champions. 
is possible in the future 
match up. 

Keough Sunday, as Nick 
a Monday night game
Thursday. 

but is still "a generation
Klein rushed for 141 
against Brett Farve's 
away."
yards and two TDs. 

Green Bay Packers. 
page 19
page 21 
page 16
page 18 

page 16 
page 14 




