..-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 4 FRIDAY. AUGUST 26,2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Sophomore ND student reported missing 
Police searching for 19-year old Liu 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associatt' News Editor 
Police are searching for a Notre Dame sophomore report­ed missing Thursday morning after his mother feared he was "leaving and not coming back," authorities said. 
Stephen Liu, a 19-year old Asian male, was reported miss­ing between 10:30 and 11::~0 
a.m. Thursday by his mother, said Capt. Philip Trent, public information officnr for the South Bend Police Department. 
"IIis mother was concerned because he is not thoroughly aware of his surroundings," Trent said. 
Liu, from Cherry Hills, N.J., was last seen in the early hours of Thursday morning on the east side of South Bend, though Trent was uncertain with whom Liu was last seen. 
Foul play is not suspected in the case, which is being handled prima­rily by South Bend Police Detective Albert DeRoo, Trent said. 

Liu, described by his fresh­man year roommate as "very, very introverted," lives alone at Park Jefferson Apartments, an off-campus apartment complex located at 3001 E. Jefferson Blvd. in South Bend, Trent said. 
Only five percent of Park Jefferson residents are Notre Dame students, said Kathryn Mary, manager of the complex. 
The student is thought to be driving a 1995 black, four-door Infiniti G-20 with a KWD53P New Jersey license plate. Liu was last seen wearing a white T-shirt with green lettering, tan shorts and green and brown tennis shoes. He is 5­foot-6 and approximately 165 
pounds, with black hair and brown eyes. 
"[Notre Dame Security/Police) are assisting South Bend police in any way that they ask," University spokesman Matt Sturin said. "We're extremely concerned, although at this point we think it is premature to form any conclusions." 
Liu's mother had been in South Bend all week moving her son into his residence, and became concerned Thursday morning when she noticed he was missing, Trent said. 
"We're using [the Liu fami­ly's) level of concern as our guidelines," Trent said. "[Mrs. Liul is concerned that he's a young man and a student, and she got the feeling that he was 
Off-catnpus ordinance stirs controversy 
South Bend Common Council's amendment calls for fining of excessive student partiers 
By MADDIE HANNA A.<sociate News Editor 
Party on, students, but don't get too loud, servn minors alco­hol. sell beer from a keg or invite an unusually large num­bnr of your dosnst friends. 
You might just lose your homn. 
That snnms to be thn mnssag1~ behind tlw disordnrly house ordinanct~ anwndmnnt passed by tho South Bond Common Count:il on July 25, a chango impacting Notre Damn and Saint Mary's studnnts living off-eam­pus in South Bond. 
Thn nwisnd ordinanen allows thn dty of South lknd to snnd a notieo to abatn tho gathering to both tonants and the land lord al'lnr "tho l"irst ineidnneo or a loud and raucous noise viola­tion." according to a pamphlet wlnastHI by the City Attorney's Oflke. Previously, tho disorderly houso ordinanco allowod l'or three reported noise violations before the City could send a notice. 

Arter the first notice, if the City receives no response and the prohibited activities reoccur, it can file a civil suit against the tenants and landlord resulting in lines anywhero from $250 to $2,500. 
But il' the landlord evicts the offending tenants within 30 days of the "receipt or notice of the prohibited conduct," the charges against him will be dropped. 
"Everyone knows what's ille­gal horn. Everyone knows what causes a disturbance. That's not nnws," Assistant City Attorney Ann-Carol Nash said. "What's news is the possibility of evic­tion." 
Coundl membor Ann Puzzello said thn amendment was a result ol' a year of meetings with disgruntled residents desperate to curtail out-of-control student 
A student residence on Miner Street sits beside a South
parties. 
Bend resident's home. The city recently passed an ordinance see NOISE/page 4 designed to curb excessively loud student partying. 
leaving and not coming back." 
Trent said police are primari­ly concerned with locating Liu and verifying the student's well-being. · 
"All we're interested in is his welfare. Normally we wouldn't involve oursnlves in an adult choosing to leave," Trent said. "They're suspecting he was having problems adjusting, and his mother is concerned." 
Trent said that though miss­ing persons reports are usually filed after the subject is gone for 24 hours, the report can be entered at any time. 
"This is not something we would normally do. We've entered him as a missing per-
see STUDENT/page 6 

'The Shovv 2005' sales appear successful 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
The Show 2005, which eo­headlines Cako and Akon, will kiek ofT at S p.m. tonight at the Joyen Cnntnr Fieldhousn. Aeeording to The Show chair­person Anja Smitz, ticknt salos have bnen strong and could potnntially be the high­est to date. llalf of salns usu­ally or.eur at thn door. 
"ISalesl havn been hotter than in previous years," said Smitz. "We're nxeited because we think it could be a rm~ord turnout this year." 
see SHOW/page 8 

=--~~-----~=~======~--=============================================================--= 
Lavv School receives $21 million 
By JEN ROWLING Nl'ws Writer 
On July I, Univorsity Prnsidnnt Fatlwr .John .lPnkins' lirst day in 
oITir.o. Notro l>anw alumnus !;rank l·:ck announc11d h11 would ('Ontribute $21 million l'or thn dosign and (:onstru!'tion of a now building lc1r tho Notro Danw Law School, including a multipurposo nmtPr that will eonned tho nnw l'adlity to tlw old law school building. 
Not only was l•:rk's donation tho largest in thn history of tho I .aw Sdwol. but it also ranks as tlw fifth-largnst gift nvnr ~-,riven to 
sec LAW/page 6 



SMC hires ne-w V.P. in enrollment office 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
In a day and age where only 
one percent of high school females con­sider attend­ing a woman's col­legn, the task of recruiting 


students to Meyer such an institution may provn nearly 
impossible. However, things have just gottnn a littln nasiPr for Saint Mary's with tlw hiring of Dan Meyer, who will sPrvn the nnw viee prnsidnnt of nnrollnwnt managmnent. 
MPynr eame to Saint Mary's from Saint Norbnrt CoiiPgP in DnPnrn, Wis., wlwre he snrvod as thn Dnan ol' Enrollnwnt Management. While there, lw managnd to incrcasn thn frnsh­man class nnrollnwnt by nnarly 30 pereent, nnroll thn larg11st minority dass in the eollngp's history and achieve the high11r 
see SMC/page 6 


page 2 
INSIDE CoLUMN 

The ghosts of football past 
I was walking by the stadium the other day on the way to class in DeBartolo when I noticed the huge new banners hanging in the concourses. 
The sight of the old players got me to thinking. As Coach Charlie Weis and 
Chris Khorey 
the players work hard preparing for 
Sports
the season opener 
Writer
in Pittsburgh, I realized I should take a moment and reflect on those players, coaches, and students that gave this school the greatest of all college football traditions. 
There were the brave "footballists" in 1887 that learned the game from Michigan's experienced team in less than an hour and then proceeded to give the Wolverines all they could handle. As the members of the marching band looked on, Notre Dame lost just 8-0 to Michigan in the first ever intercollegiate game for the Irish. 
There were the brothers Michael and John Shay, who wrote the Notre Dame Victory March and performed it for the first time in 1908. 
There were students Gus Dorais and Knute Rockne, inventing the forward pass on the beach at Cedar Point and then torching opponents with it. 
There was Rockne, after he became coach, leading the Irish to an astounding 105-12-5 record over 13 seasons as head coach. 
There were Coach Frank Leahy's Lads, who returned from World War II to go undefeatRd over their four years under the Dome and win three national titles. 
There was the Golden Boy, Paul Hornung, who won the Heisman Trophy despite playing with two broken thumbs. 
There was the 1966 defense lead by Alan Page and Jim Lynch that allowed only 38 points all season en route to the national championship. 
There was Rudy Reuttiger, the "5-foot­nothin', a hundred and nothin"' walk on that somehow reached his dream of playing football for Notre Dame. 
There was Joe Montana, eating chick­en soup to overcome hypothermia and then re-entering the 1979 Cotton Bowl in time to lead the Irish to a comeback victory over Houston. 
There was Lou Holtz's 1988 team led by Tony Rice that won Notre Dame's most recent national championship by routing West Virginia 34-21 in the Fiesta Bowl. 
There was the 1998 team that ran all over defending national champion Michigan in a 36-20 blowout victory. 

There was the 2002 team that was left for dead before the season started but burst onto the national scene by winning the first eight games of Tyrone Willingham's tenure. 
And now we have the 2005 Irish, led by Weis. Optimism is high on campus that he can lead the team back to the glory days of Rockne, Leahy, Parseghian, and Holtz. 
So fellow Darners, get ready for Sept. 3, because here come the Irish! 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS .. 
In the Aug. 25 edition of The Observer, a headline read that Saint Mary's volleyball player Kristen Playko had recently returned from Germany. Playko actually spent the year in Austria. The Observer regrets this error. 
Friday, August 26, 2005
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE NEW OFF-CAMPUS ORDINANCE? 







Chris Vanek Colleen Mohan Desiree Zamora Isaac Garcia Matt Robins Steven Peterson 
fifth year fifth year sophomore sophomore senior junior off-campus offcampus McGlinn Keenan off-campus Alumni 
"The Blue Zoo is "Whatever's "I think it's '1 don't care "It's "Notre Dame: immune to your good for bananas.·· because I'm not grrrrrreat!" I 5, Pitt: I I ... f'm 
ordinance!" America and living off 
,
freedom." campus. 


TIM SULLIVANffhe Observer 
Crew members conduct a fog test Thursday for The Show, which takes place tonight at 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse and features headlining acts Cake and Akon. 
OFFBEAT 
Helicopter downed by rock­throwing illegal immigrants 
Yuma, Ariz. -It could make aviation history: a hel­icopter downed by rock­throwing illegal immigrants just north of the US-Mexico border. 
It was a close call for the Border Patrol pilot and an observer. 
The A-Star helicopter was in California, several miles west of Yuma, Arizona, when a group of immigrants began throwing rocks at the aircraft. A Border Patrol spokesmaJ) says one base­ball-sized rock gashed the rotor, forcing the pilot to 
make an emergency land­ing. No one was hurt. 
Researcher feels certain UFOs exist 
HOPKINSVILLE, Ky. ­Peter Davenport has received more phone calls than he cares to count that have an unusual opening: "Please believe me, I'm not crazy." 
For Davenport, director of the National UFO Reporting Center in Seattle, it's part of the job. 
Davenport spoke Sunday at the Little Green Men Festival in Hopkinsville with tales of what he believes are some of the more fascinat­ing, provable cases report­ed. The festival, at the Hopkinsville-Christian County Conference and Convention Center, com­memorates the 50th anniversary of the Aug. 21, 1955, report of an alien invasion at Kelly. 
After a lifetime of studying what many brush off as sci­ence fiction, Davenport is feels certain that UFOs exist and have been witnessed on Earth, and second, that the government has known about them for decades. _ 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
c:: 
UJ ::1: 
~ 
UJ 

3: 

i)
...I 
<
(,) 

..... 0 HIGH 87 HIGH 80 HIGH 85 HIGH 82 LOW 65 LOW 69 LOW 60 LOW 63 
sorry, what?" 
IN BRIEF 
The Show, featuring bands Akon and Cake, will take place tonight at 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Doors open at 
7. Students must bring a valid ID card to gain admittance. Tickets are $10 and may be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Photographs by Sebastiao Salgado will be exhibited from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. beginning Sunday in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries II and III of the Snite Museum of Art. The photographs are on loan from the Yancey Richardson Gallery in New York. 
The volleyball team will face off against Michigan at 7 
p.m. Saturday in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The annual International Undergraduate Getting Acquainted Dinner will take place Sunday from 6 p.m. to 
7:30 in the Welsh Family Hall lounge. 
The International Welcome Back Picnic for international students, new and returning, will take place Monday from 
5:30 p.m. to 7 on Holy Cross Field, across from the Grotto. 
An exhibit entitled Two ItaJian Hardbodies: Sports Cars Clad by Scaglietti and Frua will be on display in the Snite Museum of Art Entrance Atrium Gallery until Sept. 18. The exhibit features a·1958 Ferrari and a 1955 Maserati. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

MONDAY TUESDAY 
i) 


HIGH 85 HIGH 88 LOW 67 LOW 67 
Atlanta 86 I 69 Boston 84 I 66 Chicago 84 I 66 Denv~r 86 I 56 Houston 98 I 77 Los Angeles 88 166 Minneapolis 78 160 New York 84 I 70 Philadelphia 85 I 67 Phoenix 108 I 87 Seattle 80 I 58 St. Louis 88 I 72 Tampa 90 178 Washington 88 1 69 
Friday, August 26, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Investigation continues at SMC 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
St. Joseph County Poli'ee eontinuod Thursday to invnstigato an allngNI sexual assault on the Saint Mary's campus early last Saturday morning, off1cials said. 
No arrosts had bonn made as of Thursday, said Commander Brent llemnwrlnin. lie dedined to comment on possible sus­peels. 
The alleged victim, a Saint Mary's student, told police she met a man at a local bar and then returned to campus with him to take a walk, po'lice said in a statement. She told police she was then assaultnd between 2 and 
2:30 a.m. behind lloly Cross llall, tho statement said. 
While Saint Mary's contin­ues to communicate with investigators, all information has been turned over to the St. Joseph County Police Family Violence and Special Victims Unit, College offi­eials said. 
"The student is back on campus and is attending classes, and we continue to offer her support as she deals with this situation," said Nick Farmer, Saint Mary's direetor of marketing communications. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
World leaders to gather at ND 
Special to The Observer 
;\ panni ol' world leaders will convene at Notre Dame on Snpt. 22 in a forum that pro­vidns an academic corner­stone to the inauguration of Univnrsily Prnsidenl Father John .hmkins. 
Titled "Why God? Understanding Heligion and l•:nacting Faith in a Plural World," the forum will take place at 2 p.m. in thn. Joyce CnntPr arena. 
Panelists for tho forum will include Prineo El llassan bin Talal of Jordan; Cardinal Os(~a r !\n d n\s Hod rfgup, z Maradiaga, S.D.B., archbishop of Tegucigalpa, Honduras; John C. Danforth. fornwr U.S. senator from Missouri and for­nwr U.S. ambassador to the Unitod Nations; and Naomi Chazan, profossor of political sdnrH~o and !\friean studies at llebrew University of Jerusalmn. a fornwr nwrnber or lsraol's parliamnnt, the Krwssnt. and a thrnn-dneade participant in tho Israeli-Palestine peace proeess. 
Former NBC Nightly News anchor Tom Brokaw will serv·n as moderator ror the discus­sion, whieh will include partie­ipation by seleeted Notre Dame faculty and students. This event and others for the inauguration will be streamed !'rom the University's Web site and ean be watched live at http://www.nd.edu. 
The forum, whieh will be a eonterpieee or the events eele­brating Father Jenkins' inau­guration, will focus on the fol­lowing questions: 
+ 
Why Cod? -In our glob­alized and n1ligiously plural world, why should we consid­er religious and faith-based perspectives when addressing issues of general public eon­cern? 

+ 
Understanding religi.on ­!low do we aecount for the increasing role of religion in 21st eentury societies, includ­ing thoso faeing fundamental qunstions of human rights, economic dnvelopment and violent eonlliet'? 


+ Enacting faith -What do people of faith, ineluding young intellectuals educated at Notre Dame, have to con­tribute to the solution of thn world's pressing problems'? 
The panelists will first address each question individ­ually and then discuss the issues in a structured conver­sation during the first hour or tho forum. In the second hour, invited faculty and students will offer comments and ask questions of' the panelists. 
!\ set of readings on the thnmes of religious diversity and tolerance has been select­ed to give Notre Dame stu­dents and faeulty the opportu­nity to explore these issues in­depth during discussions to be hold in the Notre Dame resi­dence halls prior to and fol­lowing the forum. The pri­mary text is "When Faiths Collide," a reflection on reli­gious pluralism and conllict by Martin E. Marty, professor emeritus of the history of Christianity at the University of Chicago. 
SWITCH TO U.S. CELLULAR • •• AND KEEP YOUR CELL NUMBER! 
Anytime Minutes/ 
400  Only$2495amonth! Nationwide long Distance Included Unlimited CALL ME"' Minutes Included  
1000  Only$3995a month! Nationwide Long Distance Included Unlimited CALL MP'Minutes Included  
UnlimitedMobile-to-Mobile Minutes  

NationalAnytime Minutes/ 


250 BOO 
Only$2995amonth! 
Nationwide Long Distance Included Unlimited CALL MEw Minutes Included No Roaming Charges 

Nationwide Long Distance Included Unlimited CAll ME'" Minutes Included Unlimited Mobile-to-Mobile Minutes No Roaming Charges 
Add Unlimited Night &Weekend Minutes starting at 7pm Only $5.95/mo. 
~.;:..,.._,...... . 

MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND 514 W. McKinley 117 North Main 4615 Miami Road Corner McKinley 1 blk. south of Colfax Miami & Ireland & Grape 574.288.9450 574.299.2860 
j::. US.Cellular. 

574.252.5820 
AUTHORIZED AGENT
4401 Western Ave. 
~PREMIER
Inside Martin's IT.CJ3):\i[illt.
r'*" LOCATIONs·
574.287.9628 

•Offer v.JitJ W1th two)'Ual 0011St.rnet seMl.'tl ugft..lf..lf!llll!.!i. AI! se!VIce awcrnlli.l!IIS Si.lb~ to early wnnmabon tee. Credrt appr~-al roou11ed. ActiVation IL~ $J!J. Uniun1ted Call Mu Mmutes i.lfU Cl/liy avJilable in the local :..<.~llmg area and am oot ilil~M:llll hom pac<aqod n1i11ules. Unlom'tod lor.al MobiiEHO·Mobi!e rate allfllies to taliS ¥OU rmlm or mce111J in VIM Mobile-to-MobilE• r.alling Area isee brochum for dolaiis} Nights a~J Weekon(l~ aro d\'uil11l~• rn rtre rul calli11g urea lor $!\.95 per molrth 101 both IN! LOC"al and Natiorml f'lan. Unlimited Night &Weekend Minutes valid M+ 7pm to 5:o9am ur1d ol! day &lturdily mKI Sunday. Night &Weekend Minute: me av.11lnbla 10 local r.al!ing Aroa only i.('(:a! r..alh~l ¥ea t1ifttlfs from reg1oo.al r..alling area St'E' amp ami rnta sheet for details Promot10~11atB plan ava1:.:sbie to new ano ~luSII!Y,J C\.!Storrers ~hg1ble tor new ~?rrJ?.tiC~ Pro®tlOnal pt"'"" >UbJl'CIIC ctlillljl!.mxirrdudes a$30 !IIJii-in mb.Jta Oflm rruy UXIJirtl if you thai'Qil yoor i:iilhng olan Customer IS lllSporlliible tm a!l sales laxus. Otlier restnctroos may apply. see store fur de!al!s. umrmd t'me offer. II """"'1 clliUIJRS, '"""· swrJralljllS and In""' rnay apply. inc!tlning afederal aJ>d Other flegulatmy r"" ch~1J€ of $.96. ©ml5li,S. r.eilular r.mporal!On 
Funding for research continues grovvth 
Notre Dame professors earn notable grants totaling over $80 million in 2004-05 
Special to The Observer 
Continuing a trend of strong growth, incoming Notre Dame research dollars topped the $80 million mark for the first time during the 2004-05 fiscal year. Notre Dame faculty earned more than 400 research awards and $80.8 million in externally spon­sored research funding during the last fiscal year. 
Included in the $80.8 million are some notable researeh awards: 
+ .John Borkowski, psycholo­gy, $2.7 million from two National Institutes of Health grants. The first is aimed at reducing the incidence of child maltreatment due to neglect and abuse by high-risk moth­ers. The second will go toward he Iping elarify negleet as a phenomena and its impor­tance in determin­ing child develop­havn morn than doubled incoming resnareh dollars and havn experienced stnady growth in all areas," said Mike Edwards, a~sistant viee presi­dent in the Oflke of Hesnareh. 
Since 1999-2000, research dollars grew from $:~8.9 mil­lion to the current $SO.S total. Grants from the federal gov­Brnment represent nearly two­thirds of Notre Damn's research support. 
"This eontinued double-digit growth in external funding is a great compliment to our researchers, and the Hxeiting and significant research tak­ing place at Notre Dame, Edwards said. "It is especially noteworthy eonsidoring that the federal govnrnmnnt's fund­ing available for rnsearch (~on­tinues to remain relatively flat, if not decreasing slightly." 
Hesearchers from seient:(1, 
engineoring and 
arts and letters 

ment in multiple "In the past Jive gnnnratn the snttings. most grant pro­
years, we have
+ Malcolm Fraser, posals and (~arn biologieal sciences, more than tho bulk of $2.5 million from doubled incoming research a-the Gates Researeh wards. 1\ecord­
research dollars
Foundation/National ing to l•:dwards. Institutes of Health and have grants to thn to develop a novnl experienced seiencns have approach to con­inernasnd $1 (~,2
steady growth in
trolling dengue dis­million in 2000
all areas." 
easH. to $:H.(J million 
+ Mary !\nn today, whiln McDowell, biologi­Mike Edwards engineering cal sciences, $2 mil­research awards
assistant vice 
lion from the U.S. have grown
president
Army and Dnfense fro rn $1 2. (J rn iI­
Office of Research
Advanced Research lion in 2000 to 
Projects Agency (DARPA) to develop a vaceinn for use by the U.S. military to combat cutaneous leshmania­sis disease, which causes sub­stantial mortality in develop­ing countries. 
+ 
.Jeanne Homero-Sevnrson, biological sciences, $2 million from the Indiana 21st Century Rnsearch and Technology Fund to develop genomic tools that will facilitate the study of a wide range of inseets. 

+ 
Michael Wiescher, physies, $2 million from the National Science Foundation to support .JINA (The .Joint Institute for Nuclear Astrophysics) an interdisciplinary approach to nuclear astrophysies that seeks to coordinate efforts between the astrophysics and nuclear physics communities, as well as joint efforts among experimentalists, theorists and observers. 


"In the past five years, we 
$19.6 million. Coiingn of !\rls and L('t.lors researe h funding grow fro Ill $2.6 million to $14.2 million. 
"We havn also nxperinnced steady growth in intellectual property and patnnt activi­ties," Edwards said. 
Those "technology transfnr" activities involve faculty resnareh which may have commereial applications. In 2001, University faeulty sub­rnittml 12 intellnetual propnrty disclosurns. That number rose to 41 in the last liseal year. Six patnnts wnre issued to Notre Damn researchers this year, compared with thren in fiscal year 2003-04. 
Edwards noted that contin­ued growth in research and in technology t.ransfnr by Notre Damn faculty contributes to the increased development of ru1w products, tnehnologies, and applications to improve our world. 
ELIA~S 
Mediterranean Cuisine
........~~-----~~~~~----------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
--------~~~~~----------­We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawou~ Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, 
Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 26, 2005 
whose name he would not dis­ent states [always parked out­near Notre Dame students like off-campus increased from close, considers the ordinance side!, it's pretty obvious." Notre Dame," Nash said. "South 1,313 to 1,573.
Noise 
continued from page 1 
"When things get loud, it's a real problem for the neighbors," Puzzello said. "The huge parties are very dangerous and just not a good situation." 
Student body president Dave Baron says he understands why some residents have been angry. 
"When what you see of stu­dents is the worst side, you can probably get a wrong impres­sion of student life," h1~ said. But he believes different measures could have been taken. 
"The whole situation of being a good neighbor is good commu­nication," Baron said. "We wor­ried that because [the amend­ment] was being done during the summer, there couldn't be communication." 
Both Puzzello and Nash 

emphatically shook their heads 
"no" when asked if the amend­
ment was designed to slip 
through during the summer in 
attempts to avert student 
uproar. 
"I didn't think of it until a cou­

ple of students brought it up," 
Puzzello said, referring to the 
timing. ''I'm perfectly happy to 
talk to anyone about it, I'm not 
trying to hide anything. It 
applies to anyone in the city." 
Some students are skeptical. Pat Knapp and Jim Grace, both members of the Student Senate who stayed in South Bend for the summer, attended the July 25 meeting along with about 10 other Notre Dame students. 
"After looking over the bill, I found that none of the 'prohibit­ed conduct' was not already ille­gal," Grace said. "The parts that definitely bothered me were the final note about eviction as a way to alleviate the fine and the fact most of this occurred when students are home for the sum­Tiler." 
Knapp too said he felt the tim­

ing was "deliberate." 
"But South Bend residents had 

legit complaints -students van­
dalizing property, urinating on 
homes, etc.," he said. "You 
couldn't really argue with it." 
Nash said communication 

alone wasn't enough to solve the 
problem. 
"I think for the most part; [communication] is effective, and most people don't want to create a disturbance," she said. "But we still come upon parties with hundreds of people a few feet away from other houses. If you want to have a party, please ·do. But you have to think about where you're doing it and under 
what circumstances." 
Students aren't the only ones 

upset. Landlords like Mark 
Kramer fought the amendment 
during the discussion period and 
now plan to fight if and when 
lawsuits arise. 
''I'm not sure how the city 

thinks they're able to hold land­
lords responsible for tenants' 
behavior," said Kramer, who 
runs Kramer Properties -for­
merly Domus -and rents to 
about 300 Notre Dame students 
within 10 blocks of campus. 
"Besides that," he continued, 

"I think the whole ordinance is 
targeting Notre Dame students. I 
think it's awfully suspicious that 
they brought this ordinance to 
pass while all the students were 
gone for the summer." 
Kramer, who said he has 

increased communication with 
his tenants and is planning a 
Sept. 7 barbecue for residents 
and students, fears neighbors 
calling the police unnecessarily. 
He has never evicted anyone. 
"And I don't intend to start 

now," he said. "No intentions." 
Kramer said his attorney, 
"not enforceable" and "not con­The University has "no cause stitutional." to be involved" in an eviction He believes the main probhim lawsuit for one of its students, is students living in properties said Bill Kirk, Associate Vice 
located in single-family zoning, which legally only allows two unre­lated parties to live together. Kramer, who only rents properties to students in multi­family-one zoning, said residents in single-family zon­ing are the ones raising com­plaints. 
"On St. Peter's Street, which is zoned properly, we don't get com­
"''ve never felt so complimented. IfI was wealthy and fornicating my life would be just great. I'm single, and I work two jobs." 
Pat Knapp off-campus student 
President for Residence Life. 
"I'm hopeful that it's some­thing students will take note of, abide by the Jaw, not be subject to the sanctions," Kirk said, explaining that civil violations were handled by the city of South Bend. "We want students to work to be good neigh­bors." 
Nash said she 
plaints," Kramer said. "I think the city needs to concentrate their efforts to resolve this. They say you can't prove it. But when you see seven cars from differ-thought there wasn't as much of a problem in South Bend as in other towns surrounding major universities. 
"I think most people who live Bend benefits a great deal from having Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Bethel, IU-SB and other schools in the community. We want the positive relationships to continue." 

Knapp said he felt "tension" between students and residents at the July 25 meeting. 
"One man who obviously had a bone to pick accused students of being wealthy and fornicat­ing," he said. "''ve never felt so complimented. If I was wealthy and fornicating, my life would be just great. I'm single, and I work two jobs." 
The number of students rent­ing properties off-campus has been slowly but steadily increas­ing, potentially contributing to the problem. In the past five years, students living off-campus increased from 17 to 19 percent, according to the 2004 Oflice of Institutional Research FactBook. From 1996 to 2003, the number of undergraduate students living 
It's hard to predict the impact of the amendment for today's approximately 1,600 oll'-campus students. Off-campus council president Matt Wormington said he thought it would probably depend on the police officers involved. 
"We don't think it's going to be anything too bad, as long as people keep it under control," he said. 
The five seniors living at 613 St. Peter's Street who attended Monday's Off Campus Fair said they were aware of the amend­ment to the ordinance. But they said it wouldn't change their social agendas. 
"Not cool," senior Mike Scully said. 
Senior Mike Tallarico agreed. 

"There's probably going to be more [parties] out of anger," he said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
I 
FREEBIES I$1JBS & CLUBS ONLY) Onion, lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo, sliced cucumber, Dijon mustard, oil &vinegar. and oregano. 

WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK~ 
54570 N.IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH BEND/MISHAWAKA 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
57 4.277.8500 574.968.4600 
"YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!" © 



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, August 26, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRF SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraqis miss third constitution deadline 
BACIIDAI>, Iraq -For the committee drafting Iraq's new constitution, it's thren strikes ... and anothnr trip to the platn. 
Tho spnaknr of Iraq's parliament announced a orw-day nxtnnsion narly Friday in talks on thn constitution -a li111rth attempt to win Sunni Arab approval. But he said that if no agrnement is rnadwd, tlw document would bypass parlia­nwnt complntPly and bo dneided in an Oct. 15 
rPii~rnndum. 
A Shiitn pownr play would undercut one of Washington's goals filr tho eonstitution: to invig­oratP a political procnss that willlurn disalliJeted Sunni Arabs away from thn Sunni-dominated insurgnncy so that U.S. and other filreign troops can bngin to go homn nnxt ynar. 
Iran calls for nuclear program talks 
Tl•:l IHAN. Iran-Iran on Thursday callnd filr morP countrins to join tlm~n Europnan statns in talks about iL-; nudnar proj.,TJ·arn, apparently hop­ing to bring in rnon• sympathntic rwgotiators. Tlw surprisn c·all was part of 'Ihhran's drive to win approval fi1r what it says will bn pnacnf'ul usn of nudnar· pownr. 
Tlw talks involving ):ranee, Gc1rrnany and Britain sulli•rpd a blow narlinr this month when Iran n;jndnd tJw l~uropnans' enntral proposal­an ofli•r of c•conomie inePntivns in rnturn fiw pnr­marHmtly giving up uranium development. 'l'<>llran also rnsunwd uranium conversion at iL-; plant in tlw euntral dty of !sf/than. 
Iran's nnw top nudnar nugotiator, hard-linnr Ali l.arijani, said Thursday that morn nations should join tJw talks. 
"Tlwn• is a snrious question in Iran that asks why nudnar nngotiations should be limited to just tlm1n I·:uropnan countries," hn said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

CIA watchdog urges Sept. II review 
WASHINGTON -The CIA's independent watc~hdog has recommended disciplinary revinws li11· current and limner ollicials who worn involvnd in failnd intelligence efforts beforn the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, The Assoc:iatnd Pross has lnarnnd. 
CIA l>iroetor Porter Goss now must decide whnthnr thn disciplinary procnedings go for­ward. 
Thn proenndings, formally called an aemuntability board, were recommended by thn CIA inspnetor gmwral, John Holgerson. It nmrains undnar whieh people are identified for the aceountability boards in the highly dassifiml n~port spanning hundrnds of pages. Tlw rnport was delivnred to Congrnss Tunsday night. 

Heat causes Los Angeles blackouts 
LOS ANGI·:LES -Sweltering heat and the loss of key transmission lines Thursday fonnd power ollkials in Southern Calirornia to imposn rolling blackouts, leaving as many as half a million pnopln without power for about half an hour, officials said. 
Thn California Independent System Opnrator, which opnratns the statns's eleetrie grid, dndan~d a transmission emnrgnncy at :t!i7 p.m., said ISO spoknswoman Stnphanill MeCorkln. 
About :w minutes latnr, power was being rnstornd to pnopln subjected to tho blackouts, slw said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana justices approve execution 
A sharply divided Indiana Supreme Court clnarnd tlw way Thursday for Arthur P. Baird's nxeeution next week, saying he might bn nwntally ill but he's not legally insane. 
Baird is sdwduled to die by lethal injection hPI'ore sunrise WcHlnesday in the Indiana Stato Prison at Michigan City. lin was sen­ttmend to dnath for fatally stabbing his par­ents, Arthur and Kathryn Baird, in 1985. 
(;ov. Miteh Daniels could still spare Baird's lifn by granting dnnwncy, a form of executive branch nwrey. It's unclear if or when Daniels intnnds to act. 
Hurricane Katrina slan1s Florida coast 
80 mph winds, rain cause massive damage, including at least two deaths 
Associated Press 
FOHT LAUDEHDALE ­Hurricane Katrina slammed into Florida's densely popu­lated southeastern coast Thursday with sustained winds of 80 mph and lash­ing rain. Two people were killed by falling trees. 
ThH storm strengthened into a Category 1 hurricane just before it made landfall along the Miami-Dade and Broward county line between Hallandale Beach and North Miami Beach. Weather otlidals said flood­ing was the main concern as the storm dropped a foot of rain or moro in some spots. 
There were no immediate rnports of nu~jor damage or nooding as the storm passed through the area. An estimatnd 5.9 million Florida residents were in Katrina's projeetnd path. 

Hain fell in horizontal sheets and blew gusts of up to 92 mph, toppling trees and street signs. Seas were estimated at 15 fent, and blowing sand covered waterfront streets. Florida Power & Light said more than 412,000 customers AP were without eleetrieity. A tree was blown over on top of a car in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. as Hurricane 
The storm proved fatal for Katrina came ashore late Thursday. Two deaths have been reported Involving 

two people who ignored people trapped in cars and downed trees. 
warnings from ofllcials to deserted as the storm 
stay inside until the worst pounded the area. The eity 
was over. A man in his 20s is hosting celebrities and 
in Fort Lauderdale was partygoers in town for the 
crushed by a falling tree as MTV Video Music Awards. 
he. sat alone in his car, while MTV called off its pre­
a pedestrian was killed by a awards festivities Thursday 
falling tree in the Fort and Friday. 

Lauderdale suburb of "It's like a ghost town out 
Plantation. here," said Mark Darress, 
"The message needs to be concierge at The Astor very clear. It's not a good Hotel in Miami Beach. "I see night to be out driving the random, not so smart around," National people, riding scooters Hurricane Center director every now and then." May Mayfield. "The back Tourists and others hop­side of the core of the hurri­ing to get out of town before 
·cane has yet to come. It's the storm were stranded as not over yet." airlines canceled flights at 
The usually bustling Miami and Fort Lauderdale streets of Miami Beach. a airports, which both closed tourist haven, were largely Thursday night. 
PERU 
On the entertainment strip along Las Olas Boulevard in Fort Lauderdale, Mango's restaurant manager Paul Wagner was dosing down the business for the night as the weather worsened. 
"That eye wall is coming through, but its pretty mod­erate here," Wagner said. "The only thing I can really see is tree limbs and some palm fronds in the road." 
Before the hurricane struck, Floridians wary of Katrina prepared by putting up shutters, stacking sand­bags in doorways and stoek­ing up on supplies. 
At a supermarkf1t in Hollywood, Cassandra 
Butler heftnd two live-gal­lon bottlns of watnr as well as a 24-paek of smallnr bot­tles into her shopping cart Thursday. 
"It's not that I'm worrind. l'v11 boon in south Florida all my lifn," Butlnr said. "But this is a fnaturn of life down hero, and you are smart to deal with it." 
At a llomn Depot in Miami, Jose Gunrrera, 6H, loaded 4-by-8 sheets of ply­wood onto a mota! earL lin 
and his family huddled in their Coral Gables home as llurrieano Androw sernanwd by in 19(B and he has b11en boarding up thn house during hurrieanns over since. 

1 
. . 
Scavengers remove possible clues from wreckage . 
Associated Press 
PUCALLPA -Hundreds of scav­engers combed through the wreckage of a Peruvian airliner Thursday, car­rying away scrap metal, passengers' bdongings and electronic equipment that could have ofTered clues into what caused the crash that left at least 37 dead. 
Dozens of air force soldiers stood by and watched as residents of this Amazon jungle town dug through debris l)f the Boeing 737-200 that crashed Tuesday, looking for anything of value. 
'Tm collecting this for my house to hang my laundry," said Rosario Dahua, 47, as she tugged at a tangle of heavy black wires next to a partial­ly submerged turbine jet motor wedged in the water and mud. 
Aviation experts warned the missing parts could have yielded important crash details, and one compared the seavenging to contamination of a crime scene. 

The airline has said wind shear likc-J­ly forced the emergency landing and that the pilot's actions saved the lives of at least 58 people on board. But an aviation expert suggested pilot error was to blame. Officials will study both claims as they investigate the crash. 
The airliner was carrying 98 pPople, ineluding six crew members, on a domestic flight from the Peruvian cap­ital of Lima to the Amazon city of Pucallpa when it crash-landed Tuesday in a marsh a few miles from the Pucallpa airport, company spokesman Jorge Belevan said Wednesday. 
Belevan said three missing people might indude survivors from Pucallpa who returned to their homes after the crash without recniving nwdical assis­tanco. 
Air !'oren Cmdr. William Hodrigunz. in charge of security at tlw sitn, said Thursday he did not bnlinve the pno­ple would impedn the work of civil aviation investigators who had not ynt arrived. 
"We arn verifying that all tho bodies have really been rncovnrnd," Hodrigunz said. "So if those people want to search for things, perhaps they'll eneountnr another body." 
A "black box" hasn't bnen recov­ered. Officials said the flight voice recorder has boon finmd but not thn data recorder. 
Seated behind Hodriguoz in a pick­up truck parked near tlw erash site was another oflknr who did not pro­vide his name. lie said that if peoplP lind the missing recorder "thfly'll turn it in." 


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 26, 2005 

She noted that the University's reputation has 
• MONTHLY EXECUTIVE SUJTES played a part in getting big Contact Karen Langley at names to come to campus. klanglel@nd.edu 




OTREDAME OllEYBAl 
Saturdav, August 21 

Free Schedule Glasses 
vs. Michigan 

To The first 250 Fans 
at1:00pm 

FREE ADMISSION!
Jovce Center 
www.notredamepromouonspcom 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
average ACT scores of incoming freshman. Meyer hopes to achieve simi­lar goals at Saint Mary's. 
"We need to meet the needs of students in every way possible," Meyer said. "I hope to shift our way of thinking so that students are our top priority at all times." 
To become more in tune with the students' feelings towards the College, Meyer hopes to sur­vey students to find out why they chose Saint Mary's and how they feel about it once they attend. He also will survey stu­dents who transfer out of the college, to see what made them dedde to leave. 
Once the administration is better in tune with the needs of the students, Meyer hopes that the College will become more appealing to prospective stu­dents. The goal is to have a gradual increase in the fresh­man class at a rate of approxi­mately 25 students per year. 
It is not only his goal to increase general admission, but to also increase diversity within the student body, Meyer said. He does not wish to solely increase ethnic diversity, but social, aca­demic and geological diversity as well. 
"The students' academic experience will greatly increase as they interact Iamong] an increasingly diverse student body," he said. 
To achieve these primary goals, Meyer is currently in the process of building an enroll­ment management team at the College. This team will consist of both the admissions counselors and financial aid employees. The purpose of this team, among other things, will be to work together to create a national Saint Mary's brand. 
This brand will deline the mis­sion and critical values for all students and alumni. 
Meyer feels that the College has been through several bouts of change and needs to gain more focus on a solid identity that will give oil' a message they can embrace. Once this is achieved, the College will devel­op a definite identity and have more of a stand in the national market, he said. 
Meyer made the move from Saint Norbert with great confi­dence in Saint Mary's. 
"I believe the College has a strong future due to the faet that is has been educating bright, talented and motivated women with highly-educated professors for many years. It is a sound product, especially since it is a liberal arts and Catholic college -two mission-critical values," Meyer said. 
Many faculty members, including Interim Director of Admissions Mona Bowe, are very excited for the anticipated changes Meyer will bring to the College within the next few years. 
"The addition of [Meyer! to the College community will allow us to reach our goal to admit, enroll and retain quality stu­dents," she said. "While we have been able to accomplish this somewhat working separately, having a single person on cam­pus that can bring together Admissions and Financial Aid under one roof, and be a leader in retention issues, can only make Saint Mary's stronger." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Law 
continued from page 1 

Notre Dame. 
The new construction, Eck Hall, will be located at the site of the old post office. Eck Commons, designed with arches, will connect the new building with the existing school. 
Notre Dame Law 

"Frank Eck is one
School was found­ed in 1869 and is ofthe the nation's oldest most generous Catholic law 
benefactors ofthis
school. Jen-kins said he believes University. " the gift will help the law school 
Father John Jenkins 
advance. 
University President 
"We need to build an addition to our law school. It's important just to do the work for the law school, and that gift really put us forward," said Jenkins. "I hope we can complete that funding soon, maybe even next year or so." 
Eck has made several previous gifts to Notre Dame-his contri­butions now total in excess of $35 million. His gifts have included a library collection in chemical engineering and con­struction of the Eck Tennis Pavilion in 1987, Frank Eck Baseball Stadium in 1994 and the Eck Center, which incorpo­rated Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, visitor's center and Alumni Association headquar­ters in 1 999. 
"Frank Eck is one of the most 
from Notre Dame in 1944 with a degree in chemical engineering. lie is currently a chairman of Advanced Drainage Systems in Columbus, Ohio. Since 1984 he has also been on the College of Engineering Advisory Council. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 
generous benefac­tors of the University, and it was very generous of him to choose my first day in office to give that gift," Jenkins said. ''I'm grateful to him. He just encourages me; we have such sup­port here." 
Eck graduated 
"We tried to sell some big bands on the experience of
Show 
Notre Dame," she said. This year's The Show will be
continued from page 1 
held in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse instead of the The Show committee puts on Arena, where it has been held the annual concert, which has in past years. Scheduling con­been run under the Student flict prevented The Show's use Acti-vities Office since 2002. of the Arena, but this may Smitz has been benefit students leading organiza­who wish to get tional efforts up close to the
"These were two 
since last winter. bands. While the
bands we thought
"I was inter-Arena was able viewed last everyone would get to fit 1,000 peo­January and ple on the floor,
really excited 
given the job in the Fieldhouse is
about ... We tried to 

February, and able to accom­then we formed sell some big bands modate a larger ·a committee," audience near
on the experience.'' 
she said. the bands. The 17-person "It can easily
Anja Smitz 
committee accommodate includes subcom­chairperson twice last year's mittees for mar­"The Show" audience that keting, finance has direct access and production, to the stage," as well as Saint Peggy I-Inatusko, Mary's and Holy Cross assistant director of Student liaisons. Activities, said. 
The search for musical acts Other new features of The began late last year, when the Show 2005 include large pro­committee talked with stu­jection screens over the stage, dents and compiled a massive complete with a live feed list of potential candidates. filmed by NDTV. They then researched groups' Smitz stressed the unifying touring schedules and fees potential of an event like The before deciding upon Cake Show. and Akon. "It's a great experience 
"These were two bands we because it brings the school thought everyone could get together with a big event really excited about," Smitz where averyone can just have said. fun," she said. 






ea tlecpoiot 
APARTIV'IENTS 
l8tlll Cleveland R~ad • South Bend, lndiana 46637 
Corner of' Cleveland and Ironwood Road 
Phone (574) 272-811 D • Toll Free (888) 642--£110 www.cppj.com 

• 
llusiness CenlfF"?r 

• 
1--""ree 'Janning Bed 


• 
Racqt.let Ball 

• 
Indoor/Outdoor Tennis & Basketball 

• 
Stvimmlng 

• 
Exercise Room 

• 
Whirlpool & Sauna 

• 
Short·Term Leasing Options 



• 1-Z BEDROOMS/Z BEDROOl\15 WITH LOFT & DENS 
THE 0HSERVER 





USINESS
Friday, August 26, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,450.63 +15.76

jonIS 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: I ,898 206 ,~ 1,590,339,430 

AMEX 1,627.72 +9.04 NASDAQ 2,134.37 +5.46 NYSf 7,434.58 +17.16 S&P 500 I ,212.37 +2.78 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 12,405.16 0.00 FTSf IOO(London) 5,255. 70 -19.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) +0.23 +0.088 38.588 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.23 -0.04 17.48 BEACON POWER CORP (BCON) -6.68 -0.29 4.05 SUN MICROSYS INC (SUNW) +I. II +0.04 3.63 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.82 +0.22 27.03 
. Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.75 -0.33 43.65 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.45 -0.19 41.60 5-YEAR NOTE -0.17 -0.07 40.38 3-MONTH BILL +0.15 +0.05 34.35 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.17 67.49 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.90 443.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.93 80.53 
Excha Rates 

YEN I I 0.0400 EURO 0.8130 POUND 0.5546 CANADIAN$ 1.1921 
IN BRIEF Raycom purchases Liberty Corp. 
MONTCOMI\HY, Ala. -Haycom Media of' Montgonwry agreed Thursday to buy Liberty Corp. of' CrnmlVille, S.C., in a $9H7 million deal that will boost Hayeorn's holdings to 52 TV stations. 
l.iherty OJWrates 15 rwtwork afliliated sta­tions. including WFIIi in Evansville, Ind., and Haycom, an mn ployetHIWIHHI corn pany, oper­ates :H. Tlw deal will give Hayeom a highly rated station in its honwtown, WSFA-TV. 
Hayeorn President Paul McTear said the agrnenwnt "allows us to take an exdting and logical next step into an exceptionally attrac­tive group or markets." 
Haycom agrnnd to purchase Liberty's stock at $47.35 per share, making tho deal worth $1JH7 million. Haycorn will km~p its headquar­ters in Montgonwry, McTear said. 
llayrw llipp, Liberty's CEO and chairman, said Liberty's stations "will benefit from greater scale and resources, which arc neces­sary to eompete efl'eetively in today's increas­ingly eornpetitive media market." 
Company ollieials said they expect to com­plete the transaction by Dec. 31. 
EU clears Johnson & Johnson deal 
THENTON, N.J.-The European Union dearcd .Johnson & Johnson's planned purchase of heart device maker Guidant Corp. on Thursday, provid­ed some operations are sold, but J&J said the deal dosing will be delayed because key U.S. regula­tors have yet to siJ.,'ll ofl'. 
Johnson & Johnson spokesman Jeffrey Leebaw said thn $25.4 billion cash and stock deal could not b1~ linishnd until aftnr the U.S. Federal Trade Commission makes a dndsion. 
"Wn'rn now ('()(~using on obtaining thn FTC dmtrancn," said Len haw. "We expect that in (ktohnr." 
In a rogulatory filing Thursday afternoon, J&J said it hopnd to mmplntn the dna! in the fi1urth quarter. 
Tlw Nnw Brunswick-based makt~r of' mndidnes, skin and baby earn producl'i, eontad lensns and nwdieal dnvicns had bonn aiming to wrap up the dna! hy tho nnd of Snptnmber. That timetable hncanw questionable when Indianapolis-based <;uidanl. which makns paeomakors and dolibrilla­tors. this surnnwr had to issue stwnral recalls cov­nri ng tons of thousands of' tlw devices, 
Banks to lend United Airlines $3 billion 
Parent company secured commitments from four financiers in order to resolve debt 
Associated Press 
CIIICACO United Airlines' parent company said Thursday it has sneured nnw commit­ments from banks l'or up to $3 billion in dnbt l'inancing that should enable it to enwrgn from Chapter 11 bankruptcy by late 2005 or oarly 2006. 
Whiln tlw l'inaneing is not yet l'inal, UAL Corp. hailnd tho revised propos­als as a strong ondorsn­mnnt or thn new business plan it formulatod this summer evnn as the stoop increase in l'unl prices continues to squeeze car­riers' bottom lines. 
The commitments from the four l'inanciers ­Citibank, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank and CE Commercial Finance -were diselosed as the Elk Grove Village, 111.-based airline updated its status in it l'iling Thursday with federal bankruptcy court. 
United said it n~gistered a $274 million net loss for July. That pushed its losses to $2.H billion this year and more than $7 billion since it entered bankruptcy in December 2002. 

Chief Financial Officer Jake Brace said the fact first time since 2000. United remains a worthy "But United has a beauti­the lenders are willing to Brace said only that it investment risk for the ful franchise. The banks provide more than the would be lllnd in the "not banks because of several son the opportunity to $2.5 billion United sought too distant l'uturc" with strengths: its internation­step in on that, which testil'ies to the resilience its plan of reorganization. al route network, strong puts them in a vnry pre­of its new business plan "This validates our U.S. hub structure, long­ferred position assuming even amid daunting con­business plan and demon­term labor deals in place there is a successful ditions l'or airlines. lin strates that despite the and the shedding of its emergenco." said United is continuing faet that the industry multibillion-dollar pnn­Thn banks had tntlta­to negotiate the cost and environment has gotten sion obligations. tively agn~nd in January terms or the l'inancing, tougher, the United busi­"It's a tough business to provide up to $2.5 bil­but has fully underwrit­ness plan can attract right now, and certainly lion in dobt financing, but ten offers it could put into even more all-debt exit one can critique the over­that was before soaring place now if it so chose. financing than it could all success of' United's fuel prices l'oreed Unitnd 
United has not yet pub­last winter," Brace said in management team -the to devise a new business licly disclosed its new an interview. amount of time they've plan. Oil prices, now top­business plan or laid out Despite its long streak spent in bankruptcy," ping $(>7 a barn~l. havo its strategy for returning of money-losing, airline said Mooney of the Boyd risen more than 50 pnr­to profitability for the analyst Mike Mooney said Group in Evergreen, Colo. cent this yoar. 

Miss America pageant leaves Atlantic City 
Associated Press 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. -Before the slot machines, before the cheap buf­fets, before The Donald, there was Miss America. 
Born of a Boardwalk publicity stunt. she accidentally became an American icon, thanks to years of televised trownings viewed by little girls staying up late to watch the gowns and glamour in the telecasts from Boardwalk Hall. 
For H4 years, Atlantic City was Miss America -and Miss America was Atlantic City. 
But now, the town's sequin-elad elaim to fame is shaking the sand off her high heels and hitting the road. 
The Miss America Organization, which stages thn pageant every year, called it an era Thursday, say­ing it could no longer afford to lose money staging tho event in cav­ernous Boardwalk Hall, where the nonprofit group has been crowning small-town girls since 1940. 

After losing its network TV con­tract last fall, the pageant is now slated to air in January on Country Music Television, based in Nashville. Pageant CEO Art McMaster said no deal had been struck with another city to host the pageant, but the organization is entertaining offers. 
The high price of outfitting Boardwalk Hall with the necessary lights, cameras and audio equip­ment made it impossible to stay at the 76-year-old arena; the organiza­tion was unable to sustain what he said was a $500,000 loss on each production. 
"We don't n·eed to break even. We need to put money in our pockets," McMaster said. 
One possibiliti Move the pageant l'rom eity to city each year, like tho Super Bowl. drumming up interest anHw at each stop along the way. 
Thursday's announcement, at a routine board meeting of the 
Atlantic City Convention & Visitors Authority, came as a shock. 
But it shouldn't have. Miss America's fortunes have been sag­ging for years, with viewers tuning out, sponsors backing ofT, and the Miss America Organization strug­gling to make the woman Bert Parks used to call "your ideal" relevant to today's TV audience. 
"Does it hurt to leave Atlantie City? Sure. It has bnen our horne since the beginning," said lleathnr French Henry, Miss America 2000. 
But "whnn you represnnt every state and a territory, you have to look at a bigger picture. Maybn a bidding system would incn~ase nw­enuc and enhancn the visibility of' Miss America," llnnry said. 
Vinwnrs used to snning the paradn of beauties, swimsuit contnsts and amallmrish talent routirws on telnvi­sion each Septemlwr won't nnees­sarily notice, or can~. about thn change or venue. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, August 26, 2005 
Student 
continued from page 1 
son, which is no sweat for us," Trent said. 
It is unknown what kind of access Liu has to funds, Trent said, adding that if police thought it necessary, the department could write up a "sincere, legitimate reason for a judge" and gain a sub­poena to track any sort of credit card and banking information. 
Liu's freshman year room­mate in Siegfried Hall, sopho­more Victor Oreskovich, said that a similar situation occurred last year. 
"We were roommates last year, and all of a suddm1, last spring, he stopped staying in the room," Oreskovich said. "A few weeks later. he came back and left me a note say­ing that he would be staying with friends for the rest of the year. That is the last time I heard from him." 
According to Oreskovich, Liu is a "very, very introvert­ed" man. 
"He was very studious and kept to himself," Oreskovich said. "He didn't really social­ize." 
Though Oreskovich only met Liu's parents once, he described them as being "very hard on him." Oreskovich did not know how they reacted to Liu's spring disappearance. 
"At this time, something doesn't feel right to the fami­ly," Trent said. "We want to help them out." 
Notre Dame Security/Police director Hex Rakow and assistant director Philip Johnson declined to comment on the case, though they did confirm that NDSP met with Liu's family Thursday after­noon. 
Storin and Johnson both declined to comment on details of the meeting. Trent said the future of the case depends on how the family wants to proceed with it. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

39 companies targets in California lavvsuit 
Associated Press 
OS ANGELES -California regulators named 39 new defendants Thursday in a law­suit against U.S. pharmaceuti­cal companies accused of inflating drug prices and cost­ing state taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. 
Among those named were drug giants Amgen Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., GlaxoSmithKline P.L.C., Novartis AG, Sandoz Inc., Mylan Laboratories Inc. and Schering-Plough Corp. 
"We're going to drag these drug companies into courts of law because they've been gouging the public," California Attorney General Bill Lockyer said at a news conference. "We estimate each of the pharmaceutical companies could be liable for up to $30 to $40 million." 
Representatives of Bristol­Myers Squibb, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis and its subsidiary, Sandoz, said the firms followed the pricing guidelines under the law. 
A spokeswoman for Kenilworth, N.J.-based Schering-Plough said the com­pany had yet to see the state's complaint and declined to comment. 
Amgen spokeswoman Mary Klem said the company was added to the suit because of claims filed against a sub­
sidiary, Immunex Corp., before Amgen took it over. Mylan did not immediately return calls seeking comment. 
The state initially sued Abbott Laboratories Inc. and Wyeth Pharmaceuticals in 2003, accusing them of report­ing false prices that California then used to set reimburse­ment rates for Medi-Cal, the state's version of the federal Medicaid program for dis­abled, elderly and low-income people. 
Madison, N.J.-based Wyeth has since resolved the case, Lockyer said. Abbott, based in Abbott Park, Ill., was still list­ed as a defendant in the amended complaint filed Thursday. The company has previously denied any wrong­doing. 
California's lawsuit is now combined with similar litiga­tion from about a dozen other states that is pending in U.S. District Court in Boston. A final resolution could take years, Lockyer said. 
An ongoing investigation led Lockyer to target the addition­al defendants. 
In the new complaint, the state claims the drug compa­nies inflated the average wholesale price of many drugs, creating vast spreads between the cost paid by health care providers and the reimbursement rates they received from Medi-Cal. 

P. Diddy to host MTV tnusic bash 
Rapper will replace red carpet with white at the Video Music Awards 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Scoring an invite to 
one of Diddy's dazzling, deca­
dent bashes is a notoriously dif­
ficult get. 
But on Sunday, Diddy is relax­ing his stringent admission rules for a celebration that's not just for the sexy people, but for everyone. The only requirement is to tune to MTV for the Video Music Awards, where Diddy is . set to host what may be his largest, wildest extravaganza to date, with a guest list that includes Mariah Carey, Jessica Simpson, 50 Cent, Green Day, Kelly Clarkson, Usher, Eva 
Longoria and Kanye West. 
"We've had so many different 
kinds of people hosting the 
show, and what Diddy brings to 
it is this incredible sense of 
party," said Christina Norman, 
president of MTV. "He's a show­
man, he's a master of cere­
monies, his own parties are leg­
endary.... He's the one to get on 
the mike and rock the mike and 
make sure that everybody has a 
good time." 
Though he's known for his 
braggadocio, Diddy seemed 
downright humble when he 
talked about his upcoming 
duties, despite joking {we think) 
about plans to run onstage 
naked during the festivities. 
"It was definitely a privilege 
and an honor. The timing is 
right," Diddy told The 
Associated Press in an interview 
last week at MTV's midtown 
Manhattan studios. "I think a lot 
of things that I've done has built 
me up to this moment ... hosting 
is a certain art form, and host­
ing all those parties and show­
ing people a good time is what I 
specialize in." 
Like a Diddy party, the MTV 

awards will incorporate his sig­nature soiree style. The red ear­pet is out, Diddy's white carpet is in ("Hopefully my lawyers have finished trademarking it," he cracked). And while there will be no strict dress code, Diddy does expect celebrities attending -even the grungiest rockers -to be decked out in their most fashionable duds. He's even giving $50,000 each to the best-dressed male or female celebrity, to go to their favorite charity -and he's coined it the Diddy Fashion Challenge. 
"It's not even a thing that I want you to come in gowns and things. That's for the Oscars," said the Sean John designer. "''m talking about be artistic in your fashion style and celebrate. We're celebrating each other that night, it's a eelebration. And that's what I'm hosting, I'm not hosting an awards show, I'm hosting a celebration, and a moment in musical history." 
The hip-hop mogul formerly known as P. Diddy, Puff Daddy and Puffy plans to start that moment even before the 8 p.m. EDT Sunday kickoff. He's set to host pre-parties in the days leading up to the event, helping transform the already club-cen­tric city into an all-star party­hopping mecca. Among the other celebrities holding court at their own events: Ludacris, Nelly, Usher, Pamela Anderson and Missy Elliott 
"You're not just coming to an awards show, you're coming to a whole weekend. You can only compare this to Super Bowl Sunday -that's why I tagged it VMA Sunday, where you have youth culture converging on Miami," said Diddy. 
Of course, Diddy has no say over Katrina -not to be eon­fused with Katrina & the Waves, one of the 1980s' pop sensa­tions. 
Katrina became a hurricane Thursday, forcing MTV and the Miami Beach mayor's office to suspend all outdoor activities at the temporarily set-up Hotel MTV for Friday. Saturdays events will be held. weather permitting. 
Some artists originally sched­uled· for Thursday and Friday are being rescheduled and will bP added to Saturdays lineup. 
Green Day leads all nominees with eight for the videos "Boulevard of Broken Dreams" and "American Idiot," and rap­per/producer Elliott has six for her clip "Losn Control." Gwen Stllf'ani and U2 have five each. But locus of the night will be on the evening's pPrformers, poten­tial scene stealers and mayhem makers. 
Prison-bound Lil' Kim is scheduled to be a presenter, while R. Kelly -trying to keep out of prison on child pornogra­phy charges -is due to per­form. Those two alone are likely to be watercooler fodder the next morning. 
Others slated to take the stage: Carey, Coldplay, Ludacris, the Killers, Green Day, Clarkson, 50 Cent and West. 
Norman says this year marks the most performances ever booked for the event. "The show is all about wall-to-wall music," she said. 
The missing element will be ongoing comedic commentary. Unlike previous hosts such as Chris Rock, Jimmy Fallon or Jamie Foxx, Diddy won't have a monologue and doesn't plan to crack jokes or poke fun at the evening's winners or losers. 

Have you thought about teaching Religion and becoming a Catechist?  
C-M Campus Ministry Ifyou can answer~ to any or all ofthese questions~ come find out more about being a Religion Teacher.  
Important Information Meeting: Wednesday, August 31, 2005 5:00-6:00p.m. Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163  


Friday, August 26, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Wotnan identifies BYU attackers 
· Associated Press 
I'IH>VO, Utah -An 1 S-ynar­old worn1tr1 dnsuibnd for jurors Thursday how shn woke up drunk in a Provo apartrnnnt to find at lnast two mnn raping hnr. Orw of thnm, she said, was onn of two fornwr collngo football playnrs now on trial for tho allngnd attack. 
"I hlackPd out, fnll aslnnp and 

tho very rwxt thing I rnmornbor 
was tlw sound of Vlli<:ns and 
laughter," the woman said, sob­
bing. 
She ~-;aid shn had bnen drink­ing vodka and donsn't know how long she was unconscious. Wlwn sfw canw to, she said, one man was foreing hnr into oral snx and another was forcing her into intnrcourse. 
"Thny kept saying, 'Shhh, you're linn, you're line. Just be quint,"' shn testified. 
The woman idnntifind one of 

lwr attaeknrs as former 
Brigham Young University foot­
ball player ILl. Mathis. There 
worn three, maybn four men, 
sho said, but she didn't remem~ bnr Ibrahim Rashada, the other former BYU playor on trial, bning in the bedroom. She had identified him to police as one of hnr assailants. 
Mathis and Hashada, both 19, aro aceusnd of raping the then­17-ynar-old in August 2004. They are charged with aggra­vated sexual assault. dealing harmful material to a minor, furnishing aleohol to a minor and obstructing justice. 
Defense attorneys argued that tho woman's story doosn't hold up, and they questioned whether she really drank enough to black out. 
Hashada's attorney, Dean Zabriskie, told the jury in open­ing statements earlier Thursday that the woman was at the apartment voluntarily, and although the allegations are dis­tasteful, the sex was consensual. 
"What happonod at that par­ticular place in that particular time was not illegal," he said. 
Jere Heneer, who is represent­ing Mathis, told jurors the girl waited morn than 12 hours after the alleged attack before going to police. and only did so after her ex-boyfriend said thore would no be chance or reconcil­ing their rnlationship unless shn prossed charges. 
"It's a 'she said' versus the nntire ream of evidence," Henenr said. 
Prosecutor Dave Sturgill acknowledged that the girl vol­untarily wont with a group of football players to one of their apartments, but he said the players then got her drunk and raped her after she blaekcd out. 
Two other players were also eharged with rape; one took a plea agreement, and the other's ease is in juvenile court. Two others were charged with lesser crimes in the ease. All were either suspended or expelled for failure to eomply with the sehool's honor code. 
Mathis and Rashada, who are both black, sat quietly to the left of the all-white jury. Their tr.ial is expected to take up to a week. 

Fallen soldier's mom Ill-arches on 
Three-week vigil outside Bush's Texas ranch is not end, she says 
Associated Press fnred a stroke. Sheehan said 
her mother has started physi­

CHAWFOHD, Texas -A fall­cal therapy for paralysis on en soldier's mother said her right side. Thursday that the anti-war Sheehan returned on vigil shn started nearly three Wednesday to "Camp Casey," weeks ago near President named after her 24-year-old Bush's ranch won't end when son, Army Spc. Casey she and other Sheehan, who protesters pack was killed last up their camp year in Iraq. · 
next week. "/ absolutely think On Thursday, 
Cindy Sheehan Sheehan placed
it's worthwhile 

said the day after her son's combat she leaves Aug. because we've boots by a cross 31, she will galvanized the bearing his name embark on a bus at the protest
peace movement. 

tour ending up in site. The boots Washington, D.C., We've started had been part of on Sept. 24. Then people talking the "Eyes Wide thn group will Open" exhibit,
about the war

start a 24-hour created by the vigil in tho again. American Friends nation's eapital. Service Comm­"I am not ittee, a branch of
Cindy Sheehan 

alone," she said the pacifist
mother 

at a news confer­ence Thursday. "There's the peo­ple standing behind me hern, hut tlwro's thousands of mili­tary families ... who want the same answers to the same questions." 
Sheehan began her vigil Aug. 6 on the road leading to Bush's ranch, vowing to stay through his monthlong vaca­tion unless he met with her. She left last week to visit her 74-year-old mother in Los Angeles aftnr the woman suf-
Quaker church. The traveling exhibit of rows of 
black military boots is a 
reminder of the route to Crawford
"This protest does 
U.S. troops lost in from California 
not represent 
Iraq. on a tour ealled 
Shnehan said America at all. " "You don't .speak she realizes that for me, Cindy!" Bush has no The caravan
Gregg Garvey 
intentions of coordinated by
military father 
meeting with the Move America 
protesters, but that her vigil has accomplished other things. 


• Featuring as guest speaker legendary NHL coach and Hockey Hall of Farner Scotty Bowman (former Detroit Red Wings head coach, 
wlnnlngest coach In NHL history -lndudlng Nine Stanley Cups.) 
• 
Meet the 2005-06 Fighting Irish Hockey team and new head coach Jeff Jackson. 

• 
5-6pm open skate on the Joyce Center Ice Rink 

• 
6-6:45pm autographs with the Fighting Irish team. 

• 
7pm Dinner Sponsored by Famous Dave's and Speaking Program. 


·Tickets are limited, all the 
Notre Dame ticket office at 
-7356 to order yours today! 
.."JnTic.. 
Dame. 
Saint Mary's, Tickets only Cross College $10 :->TIIK"IP'nT~ and Staff 
"I absolutely think it's worthwhile because we've gal­vanized the peace movement," she said. "We've started peo­ple talking about the war again." 
Sheehan's protest in Crawford has encouraged anti-war activists to join her and prompted peace vigils nationwide. She also continues to draw harsh criticism. 
More Bush supporters arrived and pitched tents at the newly dubbed "Camp Fleality," located in a ditch across the street from the war protesters' site along the main road leading to the president's ranch. 
"People have said, 'Enough is enough -enough Bush bashing,"' said Gregg Garvey of Keystone Heights, Fla., whose 23-year-old son Justin died in Iraq in 2003. "This !protest] does not represent all of America." 
Conservative activists and 
military families 
also were en 
Forward plans to hold a pro-Bush rally in town Saturday. 
Bush has said he recognizes Sheehan's right to protest and understands her anguish, although she does not repre­sent the views of many fami­lies he has met with. 
Sheehan and other grieving families met with Bush about two months after her son died last year, before reports of faulty prewar intelligence sur­faced and caused her to become a vocal opponent of the war. 


Sexual harrassstnent still plagues military 
Pentagon taskforce calls sexual assault training 'inadequate' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Hostile attitudes and inappropriate treatment of women persist at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and at the Naval Academy, a Pentagon task force says. 
The panel called for better training of future orneers at the academies, saying the value of women in the mili­tary should be better emphasized. It said present training regarding sexual harassment and assault issues is inadequate, result­ing in misunderstandings by cadets and midshipmen about how to obtain medical care, counsel­ing and legal assistance. 

"The sexual harassment  "The sexual harrassment and  and men.  midship­Vice Adm.  
and assault training pro­grams at both academies  assault training programs at both academies are not  Gerald lloewing, the chief or naval personnel and the eo­ 
are not effec­ effective in  chairman, said  
tive in con­veying key concepts,"  conveying key concepts."  cadets and mid­shipmen have a hard time when  
the task foree  those values run  
said in a report issued  Pentagon Task Force  up against thn gung-ho, yet dis- 
Thursday.  ciplined,  mili­ 
The  study's  tary culture.  

authors included several The task force also called military officers and experts for new military law aimed on sexual harassment and at protecting the confiden­assault issues. tiality of cadets and midship­
The "Heport of the Defense men who are victims of sex­Task Force on Sexual ual misconduct when they Harassment and Violence speak with medical person­and the Military Service nel or vietims' advocates. Academies" is the latest to Task force members also deal with sexual issues and said allegations of sexual cultural attitudes at those misconduct were only ran~Iy academies after a scandal at prosecuted to the maxim urn the Air Foree Academy sur­extent faced in January 2003. In March, the military 
Other studies have focused released results of surveys on the Air at all three mil-Force Acad-itary acade­emy, and its mies. Women at leadership has tho academies
'i1dmissions
been replaced. reported they 
But Congress standards and have faced also requested service should not some 300 ind­
a look at the dnnts of sexual
be compromised in 
U.S. Military assault since Acad-emy and this effort. " they enrollnd, a the U.S. Naval figure the mili­Academy at tary says is
Pentagon Task Force 
Annapolis, Md. 
The new study credited both acade­mies wit.h making progress in addressing some sexual harassment and assault issues, particularly in improving services to vic­tims. But it called for putting more women in leadership roles at the two academies and said more women should be admitted as cadets and midshipmen. 
"Some research shows that a 'critical mass' can make a difference in creating an environment that has a markedly positive effect on the acceptance and integra­tion of women in a mostly male community, resulting in decreased incidence of sexual harassmnnt and assault," thn report said. "Admissions standards and servicll rwnds should not be compromised in this effort." 
Women comprise 15 per­cent to 17 percent or thn stu­dents at each academy. 
Thn task force said harass­ment at thn aeadem ins included jokes and oiTensiw stories of sexual exploits. derogatory terms for women, ol'fensive gnsturos, rep1mtnd, unwanted proposi­tions for datos or sex, and offnring to trade aeadnmie favors-like a positive eval­uation -for sexual aets. 
Delilah Humburg, execu­tive director or the Pennsylvania Coalition Against Hape and a eo­chairwoman of the task force, blamed many of tlw problems on the sexually permissive civilian culture that produces the high school grad u­a.tes who beconw cadets 
comparable to civilian schools. More than 50 
percent of female respondents and 11 percent of male respondents indicated expnrieneing some typo of sexual harassmnnt since entering the schools, according to those surveys, which were conducted by the Pentagon's inspnetor general. 
Last year, nearly 150 women came forward with accusations that tlwy had boon sexually assaultnd by 
fellow  cadets  at  thn  Air  
Force  Academy  between  
1993  and  2003.  Many  

alleged they were punished, ignored or ostracized by commanders for speaking out. 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, August 26, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF "' Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gil!oon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROllER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff . 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DtsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe 
University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include comact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to F.ditor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Til<.' Ohserver {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exc~pt during exam and. vacation periods. AsubscriptiM'I to The Obsc~r is $100 fur one academic year; $55 for one scmesrcr. 
The Obst:rvcr is publimro a1: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send ilddress co!T«l:ions ru; Norre Qame.IN 46556-0-779 TheOil!K!tver Periodical poruge paid ar Nom: D11mc P.O. Box779 and Jddi1ional mailing offices. 02-'i Somh Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The Observer ts a memberoftheAs,;c)cintctl. Press, All rt:pmdllcti,Htrights: are res.:rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Eileen Duffy Matt Puglisi Mary Kate Kate Gales 

Malone Ryan Kiefer Nicole Zook Scene Viewpoint Ram a Sarah Falvey Gottumukkala Graphics Molly Griffin Graham Ebetsch 
Ordinance a step backward 
The relationship between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and South Bend, like that of any town-gown community, has had its tense moments. But the disorder­ly house ordinance amendment recently passed by the South Bend Common Council may mark a new low. 
The ordinance, which if enforced strictly could cause off-campus students to face fines up to $2,500 or even eviction, was intended to calm rowdy parties. Instead, both the timing of its passage and the University's reluctance to stand up for 0 The 

affected students will only fuel the fire. oserver 
It is stunning that Common Council mem­• Notre Dame should have stood up for its ber Ann Puzzello did not initially consider off-campus students and at least fought
Editon 
the fact that passing the ordinance during the summer -when the vast majority of students are away from South Bend-could be perceived as unfair. Not only has the ordinance's timing further alienated students from the decision, it has caused confu­sion about which actions are acceptable and which will result in police action, because students were not around to demand clarification. 
Furthermore, even though students make up a large percentage of the population in some districts of the council, their views are not adequately represented because, as only temporary residents, they are unable to vote for their representative. While Notre Dame student body president Dave Baron and off-campus president Matt Wormington should be commended for their efforts to represent students in the discussion over the summer, more action should have been taken by the council to better include student views in discussions. 
But while the council's disdain for the opinions of off­campus students is disappointing, the University's refusal to stand up for them is unacceptable. 
Due to the current housing crunch, Notre Dame depends on 1,600 of these students to move into the South Bend community each year to make room for incoming freshmen. 

And while these students move off-campus by their own choice and for a variety of reasons, the fact remains they are helping the University and should not be abandoned when presented with the difficulties of living off-campus. 
_Notre Dame claims to serve "in loco parentis," in place of the parent. As a parent, the University is responsible for both punishing and supporting students. If an off­campus student is still subject to many of the same rules and regulations of the Office of Residence Life as on-cam­
pus students, that student should also 
receive the same support from the
al University that on-campus students receive. 
against the ordinance's untimely passage, if 
not its unduly harsh consequences. 
That said, students are not free from blame in height­ening the neighborhood tensions that led to the ordi­nance's passage. The ordinance makes clear that imma­ture, disrespectful behavior will not be tolerated, and it should not be. Students should remember that they are not living only amongst other students, and should act like responsible members of a greater community. 
But it's a two-way street, and residents must not view students as invaders in their communities. Effort should be made on their part to get along with the students. If there is a problem, they should approach students and attempt to find a compromise. Calling the police should be their last resort, not the first option. 
With a little more communication, South Bend residents can see eye to eye with students who are reasonable adults, not careless teenagers. 
An effort should now be made to move away from the conflict between students and South Bend residents worsened by this ordinance. A good first step would be a forum-facilitated by a genuinely involved and con­cerned Notre Dame-that brings students together with council members to honestly discuss the ordinance that for now seems a misdirected and unnecessary source of division. 
Superficiality: Frosh-0's real flaw 
What's your name? Where are you from? What dorm 
are you in? What's your major? Sound familiar? If you've exp~rienced Notre Dame's freshman orienta­
tion weekend, it should. 
Conversations limited to these four questions are the rule of the weekend, an annual rite of passage for the University's newest students. And for every Ben-New Jersey-in Morrissey-studying French who becomes a lasting friend, there are countless OJhe one of two categories: the superficial hook-ups or the serious ring-by-spring. 

Perhaps this is the reason enthusiastic upperclassmen and members of Frosh-0 staffs often give the impression that freshman orientation is a once-in-a-college-career chance to meet lifelong friends or maybe even that spe­cial someone. 
Who could blame them? Two or three years ago, they 
were told the same thing. 
This now-or-never pressure, combined 
more who fade into the background of scav­userver with activities that unnaturally encourage enger hunts, ice cream socials and swing freshman to pair off, creates an atmosphere dances. that both student government and adminis­
Editorial
Such events are designed to encourage dorm unity, promote campus traditions and give freshmen a sense of connection to a new community -all of which highlight positive aspects of the Notre Dame experience. Dorm unity, especially, is invaluable to Notre Dame's identity. 
But Frosh-0 often instead serves as an introduction to a stressed gender culture that extends beyond freshman year. 
As a mass of 18-year-old men and women face each other amid their Frosh-0 commissioners' demands to mingle, the awkwardness of puberty and childhood gen­der segregation inevitably returns. Freshmen are forced to forge speed-dating style relationships based on little more than the "Four Questions" and physical appear­ances. 
It wouldn't be so bad if the awkwardness ended after orientation weekend, but abnormal gender relations at Notre Dame far outlast the luaus and karaoke. 
An underclassmen culture of sweaty dorm parties fos­ters upperclassmen relationships that typically ~all into 
OBSERVER POLL 


SubmitaLetter to theEditor at 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
trators have rightly recognized as problem­
atic. 

They responded this year by encouraging dorms to include more single-sex events in their Frosh-0 sched­ules. But the reality is that many freshmen still want to meet members of the opposite sex -just without the awkwardness of being paired with the girl who picks your tie or the guy who's designated your Latin dance partner for the night. 
There's a better way for Frosh-0 to achieve the same goals of unity, tradition and acclimation without placing further pressure on already frazzled freshmen. And while recognizing and discussing the problem of "pairing off' is a constructive step, Frosh-0 events suffer less from hypersexuality than from hypersuperficiality. 
Notre Dame would be wise to examine the possibility of less-structured, group-based activities-such as a serv­ice project, sporting events or, God forbid, turning fresh­men loose unsupervised to visit other dorms -that might promote more natural, meaningful and lasting 
relationships. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Personally I'm always ready to learn. although I do not always like being taught." 
Sir Winston Churchill former British prime minister 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, August 26, 2005 page II 
Who would Jesus assassinate? 

August is James Bond month on the AMC cable television channel. So it should have conw as no surprise to anyone lwoknd on 007 that earlier this week Marion Gordon "Pat" Hobertson, founder of the Christian Broad casting Network, advocated thn assassination or Venezuelan Prnsident llugo Chavez. It seems that the dog days of summer have overtaken sanity in some Christian cir­des with an illogieal­ly coneeivnd question, "Who would .Jesus assassinate?" 
On his "700 Club" t1~levision broadcast, originally conceived as a vehide to spread (;od's word, Hobertson described Chavez as "a terrilie danger." In Hobertson's view, a U.S. initiatnd assassination would be "a whole lot cheaper than starting a $200 billion war ... and I don't think any oil shipments will stop." Prnsident Chavez has regularly critidzed the United States, the largest importer of Venezuelan oil, for conspiring to topple his government and possibly backing plots to assassinate him. 
Hobertson has oftentimes wandered down many controversial political and soda! paths in the name of moral right­eousness. His past is eheekered with hypocrisy and human failings although he anoints himself as the moral spokesman for our nation. He preached against the evils of gambling wh:Je he owned a prof­itable race horse. Aftnr the attacks of September 11, he agreed with fellow evangelieal preacher Jerry Falwell that feminists and gays were to blame for the attacks. Robertson recently reaffirmed his belief that judges appointed by Democrats are a greater threat to the United States than AI Qaeda, Nazi Germany or the Civil War. 
First and foremost Robertson is a con­servative Republican whose failed 1988 campaign for the Hepublican presidential nomination led to his founding of the Christian Coalition of America, a vast con­servative political organization that aims to "give Christians a voice in their govern­ment again." Be consistently manipulates scripture to promote his political agenda. Following the 2004 election, Robertson prodaimed that "George Bush has the favor of heaven" and that "God has hon­ored him." When asked if former President Bill Clinton was also chosen by God, Hobertson replied, "I think He [Godl wanted to bring America to its knees so we'd start praying harder." 
Catholics make a grave mistake when they embrace one-issue politics and are too lazy to formulate their own unique political messages. Last fall a Catholic mass televised from the Midwest featured a priest whose homily warned of many social dangers and pitfalls including "sec­ular humanism," one of Robertson's more popular eode phrases. The priest, to make his point, dipped into Hobertson's entire 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 
rhetorical stable of warped so-called 
moral values while identifying with 
Hobertson's opposition to abortion. 
Unfortunately, those clever metaphors are 
nothing more than Hobertson's personal 
opinions twisted for his own political 
impact and gain. 
The New York Times recently examined so-called "mega" evangelical churches emerging throughout the nation. Like Hobertson's "700 Club," every mega church emphasized coincidentally similar themes not often aceorded to scripture by other Christian institutions but used to increase membership. Each promoted feel-good marketing initiatives as tenets of their ministries by offering secular advice for raising children, controlling weight, reaching career goals and elimi­nating personal debt. Each concluded that we can best serve God when we in turn have our personal houses in order. 
Pope John Paul II coined the "culture of life" phrase now hijacked by the American conservative political move­ment. The Vatican consistently defines "culture of life" as one that opposes all forms of man-initiated death, namely abortion, eapital punishment and war­fare. Yet many conservative American Catholics themselves become "Cafeteria Catholics" by rejecting the Vatican in favor of the Robertson style of politics. As one-issue voters, they identify with Hobertson 's fight against abortion, but contrary to Catholic teaching turn a blind eye to embrace warfare and capital pun­ishment. 
The immediate challenge for Democrats is to ensure that each voter considers a variety of matters during an election cycle rather than rally around a single issue. It is a rouse for Catholics to accept Republicans as the party of life while not holding them accountable for warfare and capital punishment. With hope of over­turning abortion laws, many hard work­ing, one-issue voters will reject a whole slate of personally friendly Democratic economic and labor proposals (ones mega churches conclude helps them to best serve God) and band against their own personal interests in favor of the culture of life espoused by pro-business Republicans. 
At times, missteps by those like Pat Robertson who manipulate scripture for political gain lose their cloaks of invinci­bility, laying bare their true motives and style of political discourse. Would Jesus ever advocate one government assassinat­ing another's president? A spokeswoman for the Christian Broadcasting Network told the BBC, "We are at a time of war, and Pat had war on his mind when he made the comments." 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a polit­ical strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Gender issue exaggerated 
Kudos to the Gender Relations Center and the Student Senate Gender Issues Committee for putting themselves on the bleeding edge of absurdity. 
While it is true that I and students of my acquaintance have found cause to complain about the interaction between the sexes here at Notre Dame, it is clear that this sentiment reaches these groups -supposedly acting to rectify the situation -devoid of any context. In the Wednesday, August 25 article ("Frosh-0 gender tensions tackled"), the Gender Issues Committee chairperson Ali Wishon states, "By encouraging events that reinforce typical gender stereotypes and the college 'hook-up' culture, we are setting a dangerous precedent f(Jr freshman to uphold." 
I'll ignore the obvious point that no precedents of any kind are set during Frosh-0, because there are two much more substantial errors with her statement. Foremost, Wishon's term "typical gender stereotype" refers to the desire to dance and socialize with members of the opposite sex. The preferred term is not "gender stereo­type," but rather, "student desire" or simply "fact." What possible benefit to gender relations can occur when ordi­nary soeializing is viewed as a "stereotype." 
Notre Dame's conservative archaicism may have banned the more colorful, physical forms of gen­der interactions, but it apparently takes the New Guard of college cul­ture-creators to put a proscription on flirting, dancing and exchanging phone numbers. God help us. 
Secondly, referring to the climate of this university as a "hook-up culture" is simply laughable. Trust me, nobody complains about gender relations in a "hook-up culture." This is a despera­tion eulture. The perceived malady she cites is the complete antithesis of that espoused by the dear majority of students. The artide also quotes stu­dent government's eharaeterization of Frosh-0 events as "juvenile and hypersexualized." 
While this is probably a fair deseription of our tepid mixers. it is a much, much more adnpt synopsis of every aspect of modern culture that young people actually enjoy. C'mon, if we weren't at those events then a good number of us would be watching "The O.C." Juvenile and hypersexual­ized is haute culture. Jlownver nobody who attended a co-ed high school or has friends at state school would describe Notre Dame at large as hypersexualized. "Developmentally arrested and sexually inept" is a far more common phenotype in our dat­ing pool. 
Poor gender relations are an inevitable side effeet of living with both youthful physiology that drives us inexorably toward sex and cold, formalist policies and traditions that drive us away. It's a blessing that those of us who endured the upbring­ings we did can even muster thn courage to fake relating to the oppo­site sex. !laving to lling ourselves into contrived approximations of social sit­uations with people who are consid­ered contraband for a third of the day's hours is certainly not helping Domers come out of their Catholic shells. But robbing us of that and replacing it with sterile pseudo-theory sure won't do any better. 
Dave Mangold 
senior 
St. Edward's August 25 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
BEfORE WE CAN 
FLY AGAIN, W~ MUST ~lf?;T FIND AWAY TO 
PREVENT ANY MORE 
CATA~TI?OPHIC CHUNK~ OF OUR C~EDI~IUTY F~OM FA~LING 
OFF.,
• 
caglecartoons.com 
@1flh fttfl~WV 



page 12 
~HF ~ALF 
So FAR. • • 

Soucruru,s SToNE' 
THE' F~RST BOOK iNTRODUCE'S IU'ADF.'RS TO .,THE' 
* ,,
BOY WHO LIVE'D, HARRY PorrrR, AND THF STRANGE' AND MAGkAL WORLD THAT HF iNHABhs. 

CHAMBFR OF 
SrcRE'Ts IN THE' SFCOND BOOK OF THE' smh:s, HARRY D~SCOVFRS AN ANdfNT SE'CRE'T THAT LURKS W~THiN THf WALLS OF HOGWARTS. 

PutsoNrR oF l\ZICABAN 'rHf THhm BOOK FROM THF SFRrrs iNTRODUCE'S T¥Mf TRAVFL, FSCAPFD PR¥SONFR S¥R~US BLACK AND DE'MNTORS. 

GoBI..E'T oF rtur 
Voi.DFMORT GA~Ns STRfN<.'TH AND THE' srn~rs Bl"GiNS TO DARKEN AS HARRY ts MYSTFRiOUSLY CHOSfN TO PARTiCiPATE' iN THf.' 'rRiWJZARD TouRNAM£NT. 

OJlDFR OF THF PHOl'NtX 
THr BA"rru· BlTWITN GOOD AND I.ViL BE'GiNS TO GROW MORF SfRiOUS AND HARRY L£ARNS or A PROPHFSY THAT WtlL HAVF DiRF CONSE'QUE'NCFS roR HiS FUTURI.'. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
Friday, August 26, 2005 

STORIES B y M 

HARRY POTTER IN COLLEGE 
College is a time for growing up, transitioning into adulthood and look­ing toward the future. But there are a few vestiges from the past that most college students aren't quite willing to give up. 
Most current college students began reading Harry Potter during junior high or high school and have contin­ued not only to follow the series, but in some cases become more involved with the stories since entering Notre Dame. 
While it is interesting that college 
students themselves are still reading the books, 

"People read Harry 
what is most surprising is 
how readily universities are embracing the books and incorporating them into courses. Colleges have begun to create not only lit­erature courses based around Harry Potter, but have also started to spread out into other ·disciplines like science and philosophy. This has solidified the mas­sive cultural impact that the series about a young wizard has had on world culture. 

Potter because it's a great story, not because they like reading books about casting spells andflying broomstickS. , 
Emerson Spartz freshman 
Considering the massive success of Harry Potter, it isn't entirely surprising that college students still enjoy it. Since the books are aimed at younger audiences, they can be a nice break from the heavy workload of most over­burdened college students. 
"I like the fantasy [elements] and the storylines," senior Mosey Nuc,cio said. "It's a nice break from the textual stuff I read at school." 
The universal appeal of Harry Potter has less to do with magic and more to do with something more elemental in the books. 
"I think that people read Harry Potter because it's a great story, not because they like reading books about casting spells and flying broomsticks," freshman Emerson Spartz, creator of the popular Harry Potter Web site MuggleNet.com, said. "It's the story, . not the theme." 

Most people, particularly young adults and college students, can identi­fy with the experiences and changes with which Harry has to deal. The addition of witchcraft and wizardry might make it more interesting and exciting, but even non-magical people can identify with Harry's struggles. 
"Most kids and adults have at some point dreamed about being someone like Harry Potter, a special person whose wonderful and important quali­ties have gone unrecognized for far too long, but who has finally gained the 
recognition he deserves," Heidi Lee, a teacher in the Notre Dame English depart­ment, said. 
As Harry Potter con­tinues to be a huge influence and point of interest for college-age students, universities are beginning to tap into this intere'st·and offer courses on the series. Some colleges are taking the Harry Potter phenomenon to a more serious level by 

offering courses that focus on the boy wizard and the world that J.K. Howling has created. 
Frostburg College, in western Maryland, is currently offering a class 
called, "The Science of Harry Potter," in which stu­dents learn about the sci­ence relating to such magi­cal occurrences as flying and re-growing bones. Students at Kent State in Ohio can take "Literature for Young Adults," which features Harry Potter. Cerritos College in California devotes a class to "Words and Magic: Harry Potter and Vocabulary," professors are warming to a new liter­ary phenomenon that hasn't had the chance to stand the test of time. But the interest generated by Howling's books is undeniable. 
"Professors generally try to design their courses to be as engaging, excit­ing and interesting as possible, and books full of wizardry, magic, romance and danger would surely help to hold students' attention," Lee said. 
Harry Potter has slowly permeated various areas of the university system, and the series has seeped into areas beyond literature and literary criti­cism. Tufts graduate Shawn Kline wrote, "Harry Potter and Philosophy," a book of 16 essays on the philosophy behind the good, evil and magic in the series. Connie Neal's, "The Gospel According to Harry Potter: Spirituality in the Stories of the World's Most Famous Seeker," reconciles theology and the Potter stories, which are often criticized by religious groups for glam •. orizing witchcraft. 
The true mark of an important novel, at least for a busy college student, is whether it is featured on Sparknotes.com, which is an online source for notes on books. The site now contains notes, chapter synopses, criticism and postings for all of the Harry Potter novels. 
The embrace of Harry Potter by col­lege students and some universities 
"Most kids and adults have at some point dreamed about being someone like Harry Potter., 
Heidi Lee English professor 
speaks to the universal nature of Howling's books and also to the fact that some colleges are warming to new cultural trends as sources for classes. 
The ability of Potter to completely tran­scend the normal age barriers of interest might be the most unique quality of the series. 
and James Madison University has ini­tiated a new class, "The World of Harry Potter: A Critical Cross­Disciplinary Examination." 
It may initially seem strange that 

"It's intriguing that so many people read the books -my parents read them, I read them, my sister reads them. It doesn't have age limits," Nuccio said. 
Photo courtesy of grace.smugmug.com Photo courtesy of mugglenet.com Long lines and midnight release parties have become Midnight reading is nothing out of the ordinary for Harry customary rituals for devoted Potter fanatics. Potter fans of all ages when the latest book Is released. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, August 26, 2005 
BooK REVIEW 
"II arry Potter and the Half-Blood to the action in the novel. Students novel. He begins to grapple with the Prin<~n." the penultimate book in J.K. must not only deal with the trials of evil that he must face in the near Howling's massivnly popular series, being teenagers, future, and he deals brilliantly with the diflicult task but also with los­deals with very
Harry Potter and the

of setting up the final tale of the boy ing family mem­adult situations wizard's adventures. bers and living in Half-Blood Prince and decisions. 
While not necnssarily the best book of a state of fear. "Harry Potter the snries, it effectively brings together The most signif­and the Half­many of the multiple plot strings that icant new devel­Blood Prince" is arose in earlier volumes and pushes opment in Harry's b~ far the blood­thnm forward for the final novel. which academic life is Author: J.K Rowling iest and most is no easy task. This book reveals the the addition of Publisher: Scholastic emotionally care and attention to detail with which special classes Release date: July 16, 2005 draining of the Howling planned the Potter series from with the head­Page count: 652 pages series so far, but thn bnginning. master, Professor it distinctly illus-
The sixth book opens with a series of Dumbledore, who trates just how events that signals the massive changes reveals Voldemort's origins to Harry. horrific the forces of evil are and how that are occu-rring in the magical This gives important background for difficult his battle is going to be. The world. There's a sense of chaos due to both Harry and the reader to under-most difficult thing for Harry, and by the escalating war between stand the evil of extension, the reader, is dealing with a the forces of good and evil. Voldemort and how he death that hits very close to home and The newly-appointed It effectively brings might potentially be drains the little sense of hope that Minister of Magic meets together many of stopped. He also learns seemed to remain. with the Muggle (a term for of perhaps the most sig­One of the best and most difficult
the multiple plot 

a...nvn-wizard) Prime nificant addition to things about the Potter series is that
strings that arose

Minister and reveals that Howling's ever-expand­Howling makes him grow up, no matter thn normally tight security in earlier volumes ing universe of magical how painful or terrifying it is. It makes separating humans and items, the Horcrux. the characters seem more real, and for
and pushes them 

wizards is breaking down The novel culminates better or worse, it gives the series emo­
forward for the 

under the stress and ten­with a battle between tional intensity and realism that is sion. The Daily Prophet final novel. which good and evil at missing from most children's books. (the wizard newspaper) is Hogwarts, which is far When the book ends with Harry's
is no easy task. 

full of obituaries and disap­more violent and adult realization that he has to finish his pearances, and the ranks than the others. But journey alone, it gives a sense that he of the evil Voldemort are returning to given that Howling has taken to killing has finally grown up and is ready to their former strength. off central characters take on the arduous In the midst of this chaotic outside beginning in the fourth journey that awaits him
One ofthe best and

world, llogwarts, the wizarding acade­book, "Harry Potter and in the final book of the my, is both a safe haven and a seriously the Order of the Phoenix," most difficult series. changnd place. Harry and his friends, it is not entirely unexpect­things about the "Harry Potter and the Hon and Hermione, are teenagers, ed that she chooses to Half-Blood Prince" does­
Potter series is that 

learning to apparate (the wizarding escalate the violence and n't have quite as inter­nquivalent of getting a driver's license). destruction. Howling makes him esting a plot as some of And just like normal teens, the roman­The added violence actu­grow up, no matter the earlier books, and it tic lives of the students become more ally makes the aura of fear lacks some of the emo­
how painful or 

prominent and complicated. and terror that pervades tional intensity. It does Harry becomes convinced of the the sixth book more palpa­terrifying it is. fulfill the important role involvement of his nemesis, Draco ble. Without it, the action of setting up for the final Malfoy, in a plot to help Voldemort, and in the book, and ultimately installment of the series, he tries his best to prove it. · the series, would not be as effective. and it allows Harry to grow as a char­
Following the theme of constantly "Harry Potter and the Order of the acter more than he has in previous rotating professors, there is a new Phoenix," the fifth book, presented novels. Potions teacher and a new Defense Harry as a sullen and difficult teenager, Against the Dark Aris teacher. As and while he is not yet out of adoles­Contact Molly Griffin at usual, these changes are ultimately key cence, he truly grows up in the sixth mgriffin@nd.edu 


"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince" Is the sixth book of author J. K. Rowllng's massively successful series of chil­dren's books. The sixth Installment has more violence and a darker tone than its predecessors. 
page 13 

MAGiCAL MFNAGFRir 


;:i . • HruMiONF .: ...•.: N~q~-HAuuv s 
CI.OSFST rub:~pP ~~··\,? USUAU. Y MANAGTS TO U"tllt•t;JA.·~R,\·&ND anu:us 
·~\C~:~;. :,~\:, .-~~ ,·.'\'1\~i>:<".OUT OF TU · BI;I:;.WI~H::H AlMOST ;{;~v<%~f~..~t·.., .\·~·: :.~:';:!.:~ : 
PHOTOG" .Al?.HrC 1.!:.~'¥V FDG£ OF 
~~~: .,.,...:;:-;-. ·'<>)/,:'<:' '<.'-:>-t·.··\1'~ ... 
~Cic..:At<TTXT ~~~F?.·~~::·,·;~~~:;~.:~~-;~: -:: 'i.·. :._, ·. 
llorfWF~I.rv !?ON is SAUCA~1c AND HiS STUDY 
HABiTS AU£ ~l(i~¢'-.~T HF is A 
I.O:AL FUiF~ff~f.~~;~mrAND HrtPS 
H~:c::T~*~~lt:t.~'~:~~-~S ~'\i/~~1:: ~; ;?l\' 
ttHF JlFST: 
DUMBI.FDORl' 

DiSI.iK£ OF HA Y MAKFS FOR A 
CON«~x i0)._.,..,1ifsf 
-



r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, August 26, 2005 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Pierre leads Marlins over Brewers 3-1 in lOth 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Juan Pierre is the best bunter in baseball. He's not bad when he swings away, either. 
Pierre generated all of Florida's runs Thursday in a 10­inning win over Milwaukee that allowed the Marlins to avoid a three-game sweep by the Brewers. 
Pierre slapped an RBI double off left fielder Carlos Lee's glove in the third inning and drove in the go-ahead run in the 10th when he hit a scorehing ground ball off first baseman Lyle Overbay's glove. 
Both hits came with two outs ard two strikes. 
"I was hoping he'd make a mistake," Pierre said of rookie Jose Capellan (0-1 ), who did just that by leaving a 94 mph fastball over the plate in extra innings instead of going high and out­side. · 
Pierre's run -scoring single scored Alex Gonzalez from third. Gonzalez led off the inning with an infield single off Capellan, advanced to second on Paul Lo Duca's sacrifice and took third on pinch-hitter Lenny Harris' groundout to second. 
Pierre then swiped second base, his 42nd stolen base of the year but first in 13 games and the Marlins' first in 11 games, and scored on Jeff Conine's sin­gle. 
"It was good to create a little havoc on the bases," Pierre said. 
Antonio Alfonseca (1-1) got the win with a perfect ninth inning, and Todd Jones pitched the 10th for his 29th save. 
Milwaukee manager Ned Yost said there was nothing the Brewers could have done about either of Pierre's run-scoring hits, especially the double that sailed over Lee in the third inning. 
"It nicked off his glove," Yost said. "With two strikes, we play in on Pierre on the opposite way anyway. About the last thing he will do is hit a ball the opposite way over an outfielder's head." 
But he will smoke a knee-high fastball over the plate like he did in the 10th, Overbay said. 
"It hit the end of my glove. It just sneaked out of there," Overbay said. "I know he was trying to throw up and away. You obviously don't want to throw it there. You don't want him to get the barrel on the ball. But that's not where we lost the game. We lost the game by not scoring a run with Wes Helms leading off the seventh with a for Claussen (9-8), who gave up double." one unearned run, six hits and 
Brewers hard-luck left-bander two walks over 5 2-3 innings. He Doug Davis was denied of his is 5-0 with a 2.77 ERA over his 1Oth win for the 12th straight last six starts. time despite allowing just one "It's like a pasture out there," earned run on five hits in seven Claussen said. "It's a pitcher­stellar innings. He escaped a jam friendly ballpark." in the seventh by inducing Mike After Bennett, pinch-hitter Lowell to bounce out with run-Carlos Baerga grounded out ners at second and third after against reliever Matt Belisle to convineing Yost that he'd rather end the inning. not walk Lowell to bring up "A real big spot for us," man-Pierre. ager Frank Robinson said. 
"Pierre's too dangerous," Davis Why does Washington seem to said. "He'll slap down a bunt have so much trouble getting with the bases loaded. I wanted runners home from third with Lowell." less than two outs? 
In the bottom half, Helms bat-"That's a great question," ted for Davis and doubled off the Bennett said. "I wish had the wall in right-center but he was answer to that. Or I wish some­stranded there when Guillermo body in here had the answer." Mota struck out the side, includ-Robinson has lamented since ing Rickie Weeks and Lee look-spring training that his club ing. lacks a true slugger, the sort of 
"We were really pressing for a player who can alter the course run right there," Yost said. of a game with one swing. 
Both for the sweep and for the Someone like Griffey. But after sake of Davis, whose last win getting at least 40 homers in came June 22 against the seven of eight seasons from Chicago Cubs. Since then, he's 1993-00, he struggled through lost three and had nine no-deci-• injuries that limited him to a sions. yearly average of fewer than 16 
homers and 80 at-bats from Cincinnati 5, Washington 3 2001-04. 
After all of the injuries, after There was a torn knee tendon, the long power drought to start hip and thigh strains, a disloeat­2005, Ken Griffey Jr. is a 30-ed shoulder, a bad ankle, and homer player once again. then the torn hamstring in 
And the instant offense he's August 2004 that had to be reat­providing day in and day out for taehed to the bone with screws. the Cincinnati Reds is precisely He began 2005 by going 79 at­the sort of clutch hitting the bats without a homer, the Washington Nationals can only longest sueh season-opening dream about right now. drought of his career. 
Griffey reached 30 homers in a But he's turned things around, season for the first time since particularly of late. 2000, Brandon Claussen won his With two other hits Thursday, fifth straight decision by becom­Griffey is batting .457 with five ing the latest unheralded hurler homers and 11 RBis over an 11­to shut down Washington. game hitting streak that's lifted 
"As you get older, stay around, his average to .297. He's got a you just go out and have fun and chance to hit .300 over a full don't worry if you hit them out," season for the first time since the 35-year-old Griffey said after 1997 with Seattle. his solo shot off Livan Hernandez His two runs put him at 1,400 (14-6) gave Cincinnati a 3-1 lead for his career, and he moved in the seventh. ''I'm not trying to within nine hits of 2,300. hit it out, just trying to get good "I don't really think about contact." those things. I just eoncentrate 
Oh, what the Nationals would on one at-bat at a time," he said. give for that at key moments. "And if I can put a good streak 
They left 10 runners on base together, then that's OK." Thursday, and twice failed to Sean Casey also had three hits score after getting someone to for Cincinnati, and Felipe Lopez third base with only one out, and Austin Kearns added two including when Hernandez each. grounded into a double play in After Griffey's line drive on a the fourth inning. 3-2 pitch began the seventh, 
Less forgivable was Gary Hernandez hit the next batter, Bennett's popup to shortstop in Adam Dunn, before being lifted. the sixth with runners at the cor­Dunn eventually eame around to ners and one out. It came on a score on reliever Hector curveball that was the last pitch Carrasco's wild pitch. Carrasco also gave up Jason LaRue's RBI double that mad"' it 5-1. 


New York Mets 18, Arizona 4 
Mike Jacobs and David Wright are giving the New York Mets a glimpse of their future. 
Both budding stars hit two homers, and Jacobs and Jose Reyes each had four RBis as the Mets pounded Arizona for a sec­ond straight game, beating the Diamondbacks Wednesday night. 
"I was just kind of like, 'Wow, you know, that's pretty tight,"' the 24-year-old Jacobs said. "That's awesome. I had a few multihomer games this year down in Double-A, but obviously doing it in the big leagues is so much more special." 
The Mets, who beat the Diamondbacks 14-1 on Tuesday, set season highs for hits (20) and runs in their third straight win and seventh in nine games. The Mets set a team record with 13 extra base hits and 44 total bases and fell two short of the mark for runs in consecutive games. 
They scored 34 in wins at Chicago on June 12-13, 1990. 
New York scored five times in the second and fifth innings and had a run in every inning from the second through the seventh. 
Jae Seo (6-1) held the Diamondbacks to seven hits and two runs over seven innings to win his fifth straight start, four since he was recalled from Triple-A Norfolk on Aug. 6. 
Seo and Ramon Castro each drove in two runs, Castro with a double and Seo with a double and groundout. 
Mets manager Willie Randolph credited Seo with ignoring the huge lead and concentrating on moving the game along. 
"That's very important," Randolph said. "I like my pitch­ers to stay focused and execute pitches and not get wrapped up in the score, but that's not very easy to do. Jae got a little tired at the end. We had some long innings, but he did keep us in the game as far as getting throught the first five pretty easily." 
The Diamondbacks trailed 17­0 when Conor Jackson had an RBI single and Kelly Stinnett added a run-scoring double in the seventh. Shawn Green had a two-run homer -the 300th of his career -off Aaron Heilman in the eighth. 
"There wasn't a lot of good feelings about it, the way the last two games have gone," Green said. "I knew the 300th would come at some point and relative­ly soon, but tonight wasn't a real good night for it." 
Reyes had a three-run homer off reliever Greg Aquino that made it 13-0 in the fifth. He also got his league-leading 13th triple and drove in a run with an infield single. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SOCCER REFEREES needed for Blue & Golod Homes. 2-8 bedroom, 2001 alum looking to rent out Turtle WANTED: 4-6 MSU GAs together. south side elementary school locat-weekend rentals, furnished, alumni Creek townhouse MSU week-Dave 248-761-1767. NOTICES ed near Erskine Golf Course on FoR SALE owned. You design lease. Call 250-end(9/16& 17) $400 plus full maid Miami St. 7653. cleanup on Sunday, negotiable, Call Hi $35 per soccer game. Queen pillowtop mattress set. New Rob (415) 845-5445 if interested. 
PERSONAL 

with warranty. $155. Can deliver. Furnished 1 bedroom apt. 2 miles hi Call574-2991-4200. 574-231-4522. to ND. A/C, non-smoking, no pets, 
$450/mo. Free laundry, flexible UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Undergrad to assist senior biology Brand new full mattress& box. Still lease. 289-9365. TICKETS not go it alone. If you or someone grad student with BioPerl applica-in plastic. $120. Can deliver. 574-you love needs confidential support 
WANTED 
lions for upcoming paper to be pub-876-4474. 2 bedroom home within 1.5 miles of WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. 
lished in Science. campus. TOP$$ PD. 251-1570. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more Bookmakers Pub now hiring cooks For credit hours. Partially furnished with extra room, information, see our bi-weekly ad in and servers. Make big $$ curing Contact Jim Hogan at FoR RENT washer/dryer, and kitchen appli-FORE SALE: THE OBSERVER. football. 272-1766 or 574-532-jhogan1 @nd.edu. ances. $750/month. Call574-250-ND FOOTBALL TIX. 4933. Two 2-bdrm condos: 18041-B Bulla 8552. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB-Yay fire alarms. 
CHILD CARE WANTED: 3-year-old Rd. & 18027-A Bulla Rd. $975/mo. SITE FOR$$. Part time babysitter, flex hrs., for 4-twins in our home. Property Management Svcs 233-LODGING FOR FOOTBALL www. victorytickets.com I'm sorry I gave you ink poisoning. yr-old boy. 4590. GAMES. Must be responsible and caring per-1-2 weekdays (4-8 hours each day). Visit www.amishcountrybb.org BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT-New addition to NDH: four-person son. Must provide own transportation. Bed & Breakfast lodging w/ND for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast BALL TIX. tables, for the special kids. References req. Alumni family for football weekends. Accommodations. Non-Smoking, CHECK MY PRICES. Call574-631-3770. Call Kara at 574-621-1540. 5740243-2628. Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 273-3911. He knew that I knew that he knew ... 
Friday, August 26, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
AMERICAN lEAGUE 
Sox edge Twins in extra innings, take series 
A."isndatcd Press AI. Central champion Minnesota, rnenivnd its third straight strong 
MINNI·:AI'OLIS-Tlw Chicago starts. Frnddy Garda pitched a Whit.P Sox haw tlw bnst. rncord one-hitter in a losing effort in tlw Anwrican l.nagw~ lwcausn Tuesday, and Mark Buehrle ol' gamPs likn this. allownd one run in night innings 
Timo I'Pn~z hit a go-ahnad sin­to win Wndrwsday. gil' in thP IOt.h inning, and the "Wp'ro winning because our Whitn Sox ddnatnd tlw starting pitr.hing has bn<1n great Minnnsota Twins 2-1 Thursday. and our bullpen has done a good 
(;nol'l' Blum doubiPd ol'l' .lnssn job," Whitn Sox manager Ozzie Crain (9-:{) lnading oil' tlw 10th, Guillen said. "To win the series and pinr.h-hittnr Pablo Ozuna was rnally important to us." buntPd to Crain. Tlw pitdwr's throw hnat. Blum to third base. NY Yankees 6, Toronto 2 hut l.uis llodriguPz missnd tlw NEW YOHK -Shawn Chacon tag on tlw sarrilirP. was surrounded. 
I'Prnz l'ollownd with his singln Evnrywlwre tho Now York to IPI'l-rPntnr linld. Yankees start<~r look<~d in the 
"That's why t.lwy'vn got tlwir sixth inning on Thursday, there n•rord, lw<:ausP tlwy takn advan­worn Toronto runners. New t.agP ol' otlwr tnams' mistakPs," York's two-run lead was hanging Twins managnr Bon CardPnhirn perilously in the balancn, and on said. the Yankees bench. manager Jon 
Clospr Dustin IIPrnHUlson ( 1-2) Torrn and his roaches consid­hiPw just his third savn in 34 on~d t.hnir rwxt movn. rluuu:ps hut Parrwd tlw victory. "I could have bonn persuaded Bobby .IPnks work I'd ilw I O!h for to take him out," Torre admittnd. his lirst major lnagun saw. Instead. he stayed with the piteh­
Chicago won thn l'inal two Pr who was obtained last month ganws ol' tl11~ thrnP-gaml' snrins from Colorado and plugged into and took an 11 1/2 -gamn lnad a pat<:hwork Yankees pitching ovPr Miruwsota in tlw AL stall'. CPrrtral. Tlu~ Twins lost for thn Chacon paid back tho eonf'i­third timn in I I ganws and dnnen, rntiring the next two hit­droppnd ;{ 1/2 games behind the tors to prnsnrve the lead in what Nnw York Yanknns and Oakland bneame a Yanknes victory. Then in tlw AI, wild card raen . he taeknd on a 1-2-3 seventh 
.Jon (;arland pitched 7 2-3 befom turning the game over the scornlnss innings and was in bullpen. "It's dillkult trying to figure it is 5-0 in his last eight starts. on seeond and third with two position to tin Uw Angels' Bartolo And he did it without his best out," he said. "I didn't have eom­Kazmir (7-9) lasted 2 1-3 outs in the third bnforn Hodrigo Colon for the AL load in wins at stufl'. mand of my sinker. My breaking innings, giving up eight runs -Lopez struek out Orlando 17 bnl'om the Twins rallind in the "It was one of those days," ball was not there. I had to grind four earned -and eight hits. Cabn~ra. ninth. Chacon said. "The sixth inning it out." The left-hander had been 4-1 
"Thn team eamn away with the was scary but we got through it. "Chacon battled," Torre said. with a 2.44 ERA in seven starts Seattle 8, Texas 2 win and took thn snrins -what Today was a grind. I didn't feel I "He didn't have his best com­since the All-Star break. AHLINGTON, Texas -Jeff more can you ask for?" said had anything as far as eommand mand but he fought his way Lee and Kazmir faced eaeh Harris pitched in minor and Garland, who allownd six hits of my pitches." through. He's not afraid to throw other in Cleveland on Aug. 14, independent leagues from China and struek out live. So he threw plenty of them -off-speed stufl'. He had pitched so when the Devil Hays won 1-0. to Mexico to Canada. lie spent 
Chicago, attempting to 119 through seven innings, 66 well to their 3-4 hitters, I felt Neither was involved in the deci­offseasons doing construction dethrone thren-time defending for strikes. secure sending him out for the sion that saw Lee work eight jobs, just biding time until it was seventh. scoreless innings and Kazmir not baseball season again. 

"He has a great variety of allow a run over six innings. Eleven years after being draft­speeds. As long as he threw ed, the 31-year-old Seattle strikes, we didn't worry about Baltimore 2, LA Angels 0 Mariners right-hander finally him being tired. He has the abili­BALTIMORE-Rodrigo Lopez has his first major league victory. ty to throw strikes." scattered seven hits over seven Harris, recalled from Triple-A
NOMA 
Chacon improved to 3-1 with a innings, Javy Lopez hit a two-run Tacoma to make his second 
dtne drink + be stylish 

1.80 EH.A with the Yankees after homer, and the Baltimore Orioles eareer start, limited the Texas going 1-7 with a 4.09 EHA for defeated the Los Angeles Angels Hangers to four singles and an Colorado. He has rescued a on Thursday night to end a five­unearned run over seven innings
Atruly unique 

Yankees pitching staff torn apart game losing streak. in the Mariners' vietory on 
by injury, winning three straight Hodrigo Lopez (13-7) struck Thursday. ­
also appNrlng Hato~m 5
dining and drinking 

starts f'or the first time in more out five, walked one and worknd "This is the only thing I've nvnr
Wtdnuday, August 31. 2005 

than two years. out of several jams in helping the wanted to do," llarris said. "I commtO hill • Homt or tilt DttroltTtgtn
experience, 

"lie's been pitching well," said Orioles avoid a three-game was just going to ride it out as 
Free ticket for 9·8 Sliver Hawks playoff game with every bus trip purchase 

Derek .Jeter, who had three hits sweep. The right-hander is 5-1 long as I eould. I always told 
featuring acreative blend of fusion 
departs 12:00 noon from coveleskl stadium 

for the Yankees. "Today, he seuf­with a 1. 70 EHA in seven earner rnysPif' I had the rest of' my life to 
Bus Trtp Packages on sate Now at 
The Cove Box Office or 

fled more than he has in the games against the Angels. get a real job." 
style culinary delights with a 
5741235·99BS 

past. lie battled us out of' a eou­lie outpitehed Los Angeles Iehiro Suzuki hit a grand slam
delicate touch of Asian flavors in 

ple ofjams." starter John Lackey, who gave in a live-run ninth inning, and 
an exciting yet intimate setting. 

up nine hits in his lirst complete Haul Ibanez also homered for Cleveland 12, Tampa Bay 4 game of the season. Lackey ( 10-the Mariners. 
Plus. astylish and contemporary 

ST. PETEHSBUHG, Fla. 5) was 4-0 in seven starts since Seattle numaged just tlm~e hiL-; 
fusion martini bar. 

Bonnie Belliard hit his first July 9. and thrnn runs ovnr tlw first career grand slam during a Lackey extended his run of' snvnn innings against Joaquin 
Just one block away from Morris 

seven-run third inning, leading innings without yielding a home Benoit (:{-4), who rntired I X hat­tho Cleveland Indians to a victory run to 62, tho third-longest tors in a row at one point. lin
Performrng Arts Center. 

over the Tampa Bay Devil Hays streak in tho majors this s<mson, still lost his third straight start.. on Thursday night. before Javy Lopez eonnnetnd in llarris was drafted by 
.lose Hernandez wont 3-for-5 the fourth . Minnesota in 1995, and stayed in with three HBis for Cleveland, Javy Lopez went 3-for-3; the the Twins organization until lw which stayed less than a per­three hits matehed a snason was rnlnasnd after th<~ 2000 sea­centage point behind the New high. son. After two years in an indo­York Yankees and Oakland in the After l{odrigo Lopez left, Tim pendent lnagun in Chico, Calif., AI. wild-card race. Hernandez Byrdak gave up two singles in and failing to makn a team in had four hits in his last 31 at­the eighth bnfore Todd Williams Taiwan, llarris played in leagues bats. got Bengie Molina to hit into an in China and Mexico bnf'orn 
The Indians have won seven of' inning-ending double play. going to Quebee, where he was eight overall, and are 39-26 on B.J. Hyan worked the ninth for last summer when signed by the the road. his 28th save. Mariners organization. 
Eduardo Perez homered and Chone Figgins and Vladimir "It was definitnly worth every tied a eareer-high with four HB!s Guerrero eaeh had two hits for bit of it," Harris said. "I wouldn't f'or Tampa Bay, which lost for the the Angels, whose lead in the AI. ehangn what it took to gnt horn fourth time in 13 games. West shrunk to 2 1/2 games over for anything.... To gnt t.hat first 
Reservations recommended. 
An anticipated pitching duel Oakland, which beat Dntroit 11-1 win is just a really speeial feel­between Clifl' Lee of' the Indians on Thursday. The defeat also ing."
Go to www.clubNOMA.com 

and 21-year old Tampa Bay ended Los Angeles' five-game llarris wont seven innings and
f"t~.,r ec'ob<rt 14. zo\»r • a;oo ,..w.,

or www.opentable.com. 
Mot"th h,h»tmtn9 IP'kb (..,tn • s-tn Mwttd. lndl­


rookie Scott Kazmir never hap­road winning streak. threw 94 pitches on a day whnn 
Or call: 233.4959. 
pened. After Baltimore ended the first the temperature was 95 dngrnes Lee (14-4) allowed four runs two innings by hitting into dou­at game time. lie benefitnd from and four hits over six innings. He ble plays, the Angels put runners four double plays. 



page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, August 26, 2005 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Schilling shelled in return to Red Sox rotation 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Negotiations continue in Cincinnati's Huggins buyout 
Coach spent 16 years with the University 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Bob Huggins tearfully thanked fans for their 16 years of support Thursday, while lawyers for the ousted coach and the University of Cincinnati failed to finish the details of his $3 million con­tract buyout. 
Huggins agreed to step down on Wednesday, a day after the school warned he would be fired if he didn't resign. 
He agreed in principle to a $3 million buyout for the rest of his contract, with details to be worked out. 
"We're still talking about the 
(buyout)  language,"  said  
Richard  Katz,  the  coach's  
lawyer.  

Katz said he and the univer­sity's lawyer have other obliga­tions and probably won't com­plete the deal until next week. 
The sides are discussing when Iluggins will leave and how much he will get. The school is willing to let him stay in an advisory role for three months, easing the transition to an interim coach. 
Huggins led Cincinnati to No. 1 rankings, a Final Four and 14 consecutive NCAA tourna­ment appearances during his 16 seasons at Cincinnati. 
The Bearcats also had numerous player arrests and violations during his tenure, earning an NCAA probation. 
Huggins appeared at a sup­portive rally organized by a local radio personality on Thursday night, telling fans they were like family to him. 
"I just wanted to stop by and say thanks, it was 16 wonder­ful years," Huggins told the crowd, pausing between sen­tences to collect his thoughts and his composure. "Give me a minute here. Honestly, I don't know what to say, but thanks. It's been 16 great years." 
His arrest and conviction for drunken driving last year upset president Nancy Zimpher, who was hired in 2003 to elevate the school's national profile. 
She wanted Huggins and his coaches to be better role mod­els and recruit studious players who would stay out of trouble. 
The two sides have clashed over a contract extension since May, setting the stage for his forced departure. 
At the rally held at a sports cafe, Huggins recalled some of the Bearcats' most successful seasons. 
"But more important than that, the way our guys have turned out, the way they've represented this city, the way they've represented me, the way they've represent you ­I'm extremely proud and cer­tainly forever indebted to them," Huggins said. "Thanks." 

MONDAY, AUG.UST 29 • 
4225 N. Main, Mishawaka 
db BOLING
Yv1s.~oN (:k!N'r~re 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Curt Schilling could find only one serious negative about his first start in four months -the final score. 
The veteran right-hander, who had been in Boston's bullpen most of the season, got cuffed around in his first start since April and the Kansas City Royals beat the Red Sox 7-4 on Thursday night, their fourth win in five games since a franchise­record 19-game losing streak. 
"I didn't feel like I had super stuff and I didn't feel like I had bad stuff," Schilling said. "I felt normal." 
Schilling (5-6) went five innings, giving up six runs and nine hits. Making his first start since losing to Tampa Bay on April 23, he walked one and had five strikeouts, including the last two batters he faced. 
"In the fifth inning I thought I got more comfortable," he said. "I didn't throw my first split until the ninth hitter of the game, which is not somP-thing that happp,ns to me a lot. I only think I threw three in the first four innings. A lot of that was confidence. I didn't feel real comfortable with it." 

The six-time All-Star. who led the majors last year with 21 wins and then led the Red Sox to the World Series title, went on the disabled list on April 29 with . a right ankle bruise after going 1-2 in three starts. 
He missed 69 games, then was 4-3 with nine saves in 11 oppor­tunities while filling in for injured closer Keith Foulke. It was his first regular bullpen work since 1992. 
He got the save in all three of the Red Sox' victories over the Royals in Boston on Aug. 2-4. 
"We got some hits off him early," said Emil Brown, who had three hits, including a 422· foot solo homer off Jonathan Papelbon in the eighth. "I wouldn't say he was a hittable pitcher. He didn't look ordinary." 
While going 4-6 on their 10­game road trip, the first-place Hed Sox saw their lead over the New York Yankees in the AL East shrink !'rom 4 1/2 games to 2 1/2. 

"It's a loss," Schilling said. "I can't search !'or things and try to figure things out at the expense of this ballclub. Not now. Not in August. 
Not with a 2 1/2 -game lead. Tonight was a night when I Cflr­tainly had the stuff to win and just did not execute." 
Denny Hocking and Paul Phillips, Kansas City's Nos. 8 and 9 hitters, had RBI singles to left in the second and Terrence Long followed with an RBI single to center for a 3-0 lead. 
Mike Sweeney doubled leading off the second and eventually scored from third on a fielder's choice grounder by Mark Teahen. 
In the fifth, Hocking scored from first on a close play at the plate on David DeJesus' double. DeJesus scored on Long's sacri­fice lly to make it 6-2. 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday August 26, 2005 COMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Page 17 
Major League Baseball American League East 

team record pnrr. last 10  GB  
Boston 72-52 .581 5-5  
New York 70·56 .556 6-4  3  
Toronto 64·63 .504 4·6  9.5  
Baltimore 60·65 .480 4-6  12.5  
Tampa Bay 52·75 .409 7-3  21.5  
American League Central  
Inam n~c:ord perc. last 10  GB  
Chicago 77-47 .621 2·8  
Cleveland 70·57 .551 7-3  8.5  
Minnesota 67·60 .528 8·2  11.5  
Detroit 61c64 .488 7·3  16.5  
Kansas City 41·83 .331 3·7  36  
American League West  
tPam rocord p!WC. last 1 0  GB  
Los Angeles 73·53 .567 6·4  
Oakland 70·56 .556 3·7  3  
Texas 59-67 .468 3·7  14  
Seattle 54·72 .429 4·6  19  
National League East  
tnam rPcord pnre. last 10  GB  
Atlanta 72·55 .567 5·5  
Philadelphia 69·59 .539 6·4  3.5  
Florida 67-60 .528 6·4  5  
New York 66·60 .524 7·3  5.5  
Washington 66·61 .520 5-5  6  
National League Central  
tPam f!l!:ord pore. last 10  GB  
St. Louis 80-47 .630 6·4  
Houston 67·60 .527 4·6  13  
Milwaukee 63·65 .492 7·3  17.5  
Chicago 61-66 .480 5·5  19  
Cincinnati 59·68 .465 4·6  21  
Pittsburgh 54·73 .425 4·6  26  
National League West  
tPam nleord perc. last 10  GB  
San Diego 63·63 .500 5·5  
los Angeles 57-69 .452 5·5  6  
Arizona 58·70 .453 2·8  6  
San Francisco 55-71 .437 5·5  8  
Colorado 48·78 .381 4·6  15  

AP College Football Preseason Top 25 
learn pretJ. record preo. rank 

1 usc (60) 13·0 1 2 Texas (4) 1H 5 3 Tennessee (13) 10-3 13 4 Michigan 9·3 14 5 LSU 9·3 16 6 Ohio State 8·4 20 7 Oklahoma 12·1 3 8 Virginia Tech 10·3 10 9 Miami 9·3 11 10 Florida 7·4 NR 11 Iowa 10·2 8 12 Louisville (1) 11·1 6 13 Georgia 10·2 7 14 Florida State 9·3 15 15 Purdue 7-4 NR 16 Auburn 13·0 2 17 TexasA&M 7·4 NR 18 Boise State 1H 12 19 California 10·2 9 20 Arizona Stale 9·3 19 21 Texas Tech 8·4 18 22 Boston College 9·3 21 23 Pittsburgh 8·4 25 24 Fresno Slate 9·3 22 25 Virginia 8·4 23 
around the dial 
MLB 

Florida at Chicago Cubs 1:20 p.m., ESPN 
LITTLE LEAGUE WORLD SERIES US Championsip, Saturday 2:30p.m., ABC World Championsip, Sunday 2:30p.m., ABC 
CYCLING 


• 

AP Lance Armstrong emerges from a doping control bus during the 2004 Tour de France. The seven-time Tour winner claims he was set up by the French laboratory that found a blood cell booster while testing Armstrong's urine . 
Armstrong denies latest drug accusations 
Associated Press 
PAHIS Lance Armstrong suggested Thursday that he's the vic­tim of a "setup," saying he doesn't trust the French lab that released test results leading to blood doping allegations against him. 
Armstrong's comments came after Dick Pound, head of the World Anti­Doping Agency, said offi­cials had received the lab results and would review them. 
"There's a setup here and I'm stuck in the mid­dle of it," Armstrong said. 
"I absolutely do not trust that laboratory." 

The French sports daily L'Equipe reported Tuesday that six urine samples Armstrong provided dur­ing his first tour win in 1999 tested positive for the red blood cell-booster EPO. 
"If he had one, you could say it was an aberration," Pound said. "When you get up to six, there's got to be some explanation." 
Armstrong, who retired after his seventh straight tour win in July, has angri­ly denied the L'Equipe report. He also said that while Pound might trust the Jab that tested the samples, "I certainly don't." 
Pound said the lab had asked WADA months ago if the agency was interested in reviewing its findings and that he agreed. lie said the agency didn't expect names to be con­nected to the findings, but only wanted to see if the leftover samples from 1999 would show riders used EPO. 
"They said it's simply research," Pound said. 
Pound said he is waiting for WADA Science Director Olivier Habin to return from Europe to review the results. 
The lab report doesn't name Armstrong, but shows the results of tests 
on anonymous urine sam­ples. While the Freneh newspaper said it was able to match Armstrong to the positive samples, Pound said the lab and WADA oflicials cannot do that. 
The French report appears stronger than pre­vious doping allegations raised against Armstrong, Pound said. 
"There's been an awful lot of rumor and accusa­tion about him for a num­ber of years, always of the he-said, she-said variety. This appears -I haven't seen the doeuments myself -to have some doeunwn­tary conneetion. That's a lot more serious." 
IN BRIEF 
Gooden surrenders to police 
TAMPA-Former baseball star Dwight Gooden turned himself in at a county jail Thursday, three days after poliee said he fled a DUI traffic stop. 
Gooden, 40, showed up at the jail warrants fadlity about 5 p.m., poliee spokeswoman Laura MeE!roy said. lie had beon missing since early Monday, when an ortieer pulled over his 2004 BMW near downtown Tampa on suspieion of drunken driv­ing. 
I le twice refused to get out of the car for a field sobriety test, then drove away suddenly, police said. 
Gooden, who has a history of sub­stance abuse and eurrently has a domestic violenee charge pending in the court, was booked on a felony charge of lleeing police, and misde­meanor charges of DUI and resisting arrest without violence. 
lie was being held without bond Thursday night. MeElroy said Gooden is scheduled to appear in court Friday morning for a hearing to revoke his bond on the Mareh domestic violence charge. 

"We're relieved that he has eome forward. and this may bo the first step toward him getting the help he needs," MeEir~ said. 
Suns sis;!n IJ'Antoni to con­
tract exfens10n 
PHOENIX -The Phoenix Suns have signed coaeh Mike D'Antoni to a two-year extension, the team announced Thursday. 
The deal puts the reigning NBA eoach of the year under eontract through the 2008-09 season. ()'Antoni directed Phoenix to a 33­game improvement in his 2004-05, his first full season as head eoaeh. The Suns won an NBA-best 62 games but were eliminated by the San Antonio Spurs in the Western Conference finals. 
D'Antoni, who spent 20 years in Italy as a player and coach, was tho second Phoenix coach to be selected NBA coach of the year. The other was Cotton Fitzsimmons in 1988-89. 
Ponson arrested on DUI 
charge 

BAt:riMOHE -Sidney Ponson was arrested early Thursday on a drunken­driving eharge, t.lw latest. legal problem for the pitcher <~onsidered tlw ace of the Baltimore Orioles stall' a year ago. 
Maryland Transportation Authority Police arrested him on Interstate 'J5, just south of Baltimore, said Cpl. Pamela Thorne, a spokeswoman for tho agency. 
Authorities said Ponson was stopped for tailgating, given a field sobriety test and charged with driving undnr tlw influence and driving while impairml. At the station, he refusml a brnath test, which earries an automatic 120-day suspnnsion of his license for a lirst ofl(mse. 
The Orioles and Ponson's agent, Barry Praver, did not immediately mturn calls. 
Ponson was eharged in .January with driving undor the inlluenec in Florida, and the ease has not yet been resolved. 
·~ 

page 18 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Ohio State argues to avoid transgressions 
University feels it should not be liable 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Ohio State argued Thursday that it shouldn't be held liable for some NCAA rules violations because former men's basket­ball coach Jim O'Brien made it impossible for athletic administrators to know about them. 
The university issued its for­mal response to the NCAA and conceded to nine violations, seven in the men's basketball program and one each for the women's basketball and foot­ball teams. 
Among the most serious charges, the NCAA said administrators and compli­ance ofl'ieials should have known about transgressions by O'Brien and one of his assistants. Paul Biancardi. 
The school shifted responsi­bility to O'Brien. 
"That the men's basketball staff intentionally concealed material facts from athletics and compliance administra­tors and disregarded specific instructions from the compli­ance office should not be deemed as evidence of a lack of appropriate monitoring by the institution," the response states. 
Ohio State said the men's basketball team would have two fewer scholarships than the NCAA maximum of 13 this season. The school previously fired O'Brien and prevented ate and sufficient," the response reads. 
The university sent the 225­page document, along with about 1,500 pages of evidence and exhibits, to the NCAA offices in Indianapolis by overnight courier Wednesday, the day before it was due. 
O'Brien's attorney, Joseph Murray, disputed the universi­ty's daims. 
"Unlike Ohio State, Jim O'Brien doesn't need 2,000 pages to explain why he didn't do anything wrong," Murray said. 
The NCAA will collect infor­mation and then hold a hear­ing Dec. 9 or 10 to decide if Ohio State's self-imposed penalties are sufficient. 
NCAA spokesman Kent Barrett said the organization doesn't comment on pending enforcement actions. 
Ohio State fired O'Brien in June 2004 after he admitted he arranged a $6,700 pay­ment in 1999 to the family of a recruit, Aleksandar Hadojevic. O'Brien has sued Ohio State for improperly fir­ing him, saying he didn't vio­late NCAA recruiting rules because Radojevic had already been ruled ineligible to play for the Buckeyes. 
The violations also included a booster who helped another basketball player with his schoolwork and gave him money. 
Kathleen Salyers, who claims she housed Bohan Savovic, has said she persuad­ed professors at Biancardi's request to change Savovic's 

The Observer + SPORTS Friday, August 26, 2005 
NFL 

Mourning Niners take field 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -A black, football-shaped decal featuring Thomas Herrion's No. 72 will be on the back of the San Francisco 49ers' helmets. The offensive lineman will be honored with words and pictures in a tribute before Friday's preseason game against Tennessee. 
And then the 49ers will try to get back to the suddenly trivial business of earning an NFL ros­ter spot. 
Just six days after Herrion's locker-room collapse and death following a game in Denver, the 49ers will be back in action in the relentless NFL preseason. Jonas Jennings is among the 49ors who would have preferred to wait a bit longer, but the left tackle knows his teammates must move on eventually. 
"We've just got to keep it sim­ple and go out there, no matter how we feel," Jennings said. "We're going to think about him before the game, but you can't be thinking about anything else once the game starts, because that's how you get hurt." 
llerrion was fighting for a spot on the team, and that's what many of his teammates will do against the Titans. Key jobs in San Francisco still haven't been awarded, particularly for receivers, defensive backs and linemen on both sides of the ball. 
That competition provides a new focus for players like Tony Wragge, who has endured the deaths of two teammates ­including Al Lucas, a lineman with the Arena League's Los Angeles Avengers -in less than five months. 
"I think it will be somber, but at the same time energetic, 


-
its men's basketball team from playing in a postseason tour­nament last season -even though no players or coaches involved in any of the alleged violations were still affiliated with the university. 
'The university believes that its corrective measures and self-imposed punitive actions presented herein, and any subsequent actions taken by the university, should be rec­ognized and accepted by the NCAA as necessary, appropri-
Sunday, September 4th -2:00-3:00pm Tuesday, September 6th -7:00-S:OOpm 
Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
C-M 
Campus Minimzy 
failing grades so he would remain eligible to play. 
She deelined to comment on Ohio State's response, but released a statement on her Web site saying she regretted having had a role in the viola­tions. She said she was involved as a "direct result of others whom were in a posi­tion of trust and authority. It was their breach of the trust and authority that they were given that has brought us here today." 

,,. Are you interested in learning more about being , _ Confirmed here at the University of Notre Dame? ,\./ 
,. ~~-/-: --~~{ ., -"cJ: *· ~~ , !<: ·~-'!::,\' .. , ' ' ~ '·,_, --:-""·. '~·~:;,.;-" .....·,~)-~!;f,..·:-.&4~" ... : ,• 
nt -~· 1 / 

RESTAURANT 
Now Hiring Experienced Server Apply in Person 
211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
232~4445 
www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com 

because we're going to want to do our jobs and represent the 49ers and Thomas Herrion the best we can;" said Wragge, who's seeking a spot on the offensive line. "The man was like a brother to me and these guys, and I would never want to let my brother down." 
The game also puts the Titans in a delicate position, mixing concern with competition. Coaches Jeff Fisher and Mike Nolan spoke over the phone this week about the difficulties of their situation. 
"We haven't held anything back because of what they're going through," Fisher said. ''I've talked to Coach Nolan, and we had a nice visit. lie feels by kickoff they will be able pull things together and bring some 
. Information Sessions:,_ ., _ · 
J • " ' 
Contact: Fr• .John Conley 631-7888 or .John a. Sylvia Dillon 631-7163 
dosure to this and go ahead and play." 
The 49ers' starters will play well into the third quarter, which means Tim Rattay will get most of the playing time after reclaiming his starting job from No. 1 draft pick Alex Smith. Rattay, who's been healthy and nearly flawless since the Niners' final minieamp, forced Nolan to rethink his decision to throw Smith into competition early in his first NFL season. 
Steve McNair and the Titans' starters probably will play through the first half, but Fisher prefers to save his starters' longest preseason outing until the final game. Nolan, like most coaches, uses the third exhibi­tion to take the longest look at his starters. 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. Friday, August 26, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Owens ready to play in first preseason game 
that wB be able to get some Pollack, who intercepted two

McNabb, Owens still 
work," McNabb said, hoping tho passes in practice on not on speaking terms two can gnt along well enough Wednesday, is starting to adjust 
to load the Eagles to a champi­to his now position. 
onship. ''I've bnen in different spots,"

Associated Press The notoriously vocal Eagles he said. "Thnre's so much talent I'IIILAI>ELPIIIA -Tnrrnll fans will have their first chance here. We have a lot of guys who Owens and Donovan McNabb to givn Owens a real earful can move and a lot of guys who now ean givl' IHtch othnr the since he started demanding a arn really versatile." silnnt trnatnwnt in a game. nnw contraet just one season On the offensive side, it could Owens and McNabb will play into the s1\ven-ynar, $48.97 mil­be an important garnn for togPI.Iwr for tlw first time since lion dnal hn signed in March Bengals widnout Pntnr Warrick. thPir public feud lwgan whnn 2004. Thn formnr first-round pick is tlw Philadelphia Eaglns IH)st tlw Ownns rncnivnd rnixturns of vying for playing time behind Cincinnati Bengals on Friday boos and cheers at training Pro Bowler Chad Johnson and night. Owens missed tlw l'irst camp, but fans havnn't been T.J. lloushmandzadeh. Warrick prns1•ason ganw al'tnr hn was allownd at practice since Owens is competing with Knllny Sl'nt honw for a week following came baek from his one-wnek Washington, Kevin Waltnr, and an argunwnt. with l·:aglns coach banishment and the team rookie Chris llenry. Andy HPid. Ill' was held out of' rnturnnd to its practien facility Now that Owens is back, thn tlw sncond gamP lwca usn of' a in Philadelphia. Eaglns can sort out their receiv­groin injury. While Ownns makes his sna­ing eorps. "lin f'nPis pn~tty good. lin's son debut at home, Bengals Philly lost starter Todd running amund good. /In hasn't rookin David Pollack will make Pinkston and reserve Justin had a lot of' pain in tlwrn," Hnid his first prnseason appearance Jenkins to season-nnding said Thursday. aftnr ending a 20-day holdout injuries. Third-year pro Greg It'll hn intnrosting to see if' last wnek. Pollack, the 17th Lewis starts opposite Owens OWI'IIS and McNahh communi­overall pick in tho drafl, is play­and rookie Heggie Brown is the cat!' on tlw l'inld or along tho ing outsido linebacker aftnr set­No. 3 receiver ahnad of' third­sidPlinn. Tlw All-Pro rnceivnr ting a school record with 36 year pro Billy McMullen. Carlos and thn f'iv1~-timn Pro Bowl sacks as a dnfensive lineman at Pnrez took Jenkins' spot. quartnrback don't spnak to each <inorgia. The Eagles also lost running otlwr. Owens startml thn friction "lie's had a good week," baek Correll Buckhaltnr to his in April whnn hn took a shot at Bengals coaeh Marvin Lnwis third season-1-mding knee injury M1:Nabb's pnrf'ormance in said. "Every timfl hn steps on in four ynars. Pro Bowl running l'hilalhdphia's Super Bowl loss the field. he practices hard, and back Brian Westbrook is nxpect­to New 1\ngland. flo also called he's learning what he needs to ed to play the first half with the McNabb a "hypocrite" oarlier learn. lie's getting closer to starters, though it's likely rookie this month. doing the things he needs to Hyan Moats will get plenty of "I think it's very important do." action with the first team. 
NHL 
Sabres' enforcer ad111its using androstenedione in 2005 

Associated Press Bartlntt, said Thursday. ing supplement, said he used client's statements. 
"It's obviously something andro from May to August The NHL Players' 
BUFFALO. N.Y.-Sabres that, looking back on it, he 2003, The Buffalo News Association opposes perform­onforcor Andrnw Peters wishes in some ways he had­reported Thursday. ance-enhancing substances, hrinfly and legally usnd thn n't," Bartlett told The "No one said you can't, so union spokesman Jonathan steroidlikn supplnment Associated Press. "And he's why not?" Peters told the Weatherdon said. and rostnn 1HI ione two years been very elear that knowing newspaper. "We didn't do any­He noted that no NIIL player ago to IH~ I p h i m m a k c t h e what he knows today, he thing illegal. It was a supple­tested positive during thn last tmun. wouldn't use it again." ment. We weren't hiding any­two Olympics and in numerous 
PPLers did not break any Androstenedione, known as thing. I had nothing to hide. international competitions. laws or NIIL rules at the limn andro. was once used by slug­My girlfriend at the time The NIII. has introduced and has stopped using the ger Mark McGwire and knew. My parents knew." random tests for performance­llP rform an e1~ n n hancnr si nee banned by baseball last year. Peters was traveling to a enhancing drugs in its new tho Food and Drug Peters, believed to be the hockey tournament in Ottawa collective bargaining agrne­Administration banned its sale first NIlL player to admit and not availabln for com­ment. in April 2004, his agnnt, Stnvn using a pnrformance-enhanc-ment. Bartlett confirmed his Players will be subjnct to a 
THE SPIRIT OF BEAUTY. 

•Specializing in Color and Cuts 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
•15% Student Discount M-W 
South Bend, IN 46615 
[SALON ROUGEI

•www.salonrougeinc.com 
57 4-289-5080 
(Formerly Atria 

minimum of two drug tnsts a  
y11ar without warning. A f"irst­ 
timn olTnndnr would roeeivn a  
20-gamo suspension. A hO­ 
garne suspension would be  
givnn to a repeat oi'J'nndnr,  
with a permanent ban for a  
third olTonso.  
"We are eonf"ident tlw ndu­ 
c a t i o n a n d t n s t i n g p o I il: y  
under our nnw joint program,  
in addition to snvnro punish­ 
mont for positive test results,  
will deter NIIL players from  
using pnrl'ormanen-nnhan<:ing  
substanens," NIIL spokesman  
Frank Brown said in response  
to Pntnrs' admission.  
Bart.lntt noted Peters passed  
all drug tnsts bnl'orn lw was  
allowed to play for Bodnns IK.  
a seeond-l.ior SwPdish tl'am.  
last season.  
Peters told Tho Nnws lw and  
brother (ioolT l'ntnrs, a carePr  
minor leaguer, bought andro  
over tlw eountnr at a nutri­ 
tion 1tl s u p pIn rn n n t store i n  
Hoehnster.  
Peters said lw usnd and ro to  
pn~pare for training eamp and  
lwlp ovnrr.onw shoulder and  
ankln injuries that l'on:nd him  
to miss 23 gamos tlw previous  
snason with t.he Sabn1s' minor  
lnagun al'li liatn in thn All 1..  
l'ntnrs wont from 224  
pounds to 247. lin madn tlw  
to am and a p p e it r n d in 4 2 ganws as a rookil1 in tlw  - 
200:~-04 season. Thn lnf't wing  
f'inishnd with t.wo goals, no  
assists and a tnam-leading  
151 penalty minutes.  
"At t h n t. i m e., I t h o u g h t i t  
was totally harmlnss, so I  
would've rer.ornnwndl'd it to  
anybody," said l'ntnrs, a sne­ 
ond-round Sabn1s dral't pick  
in l!JIJH. "Now I wouldn't rne­ ~ j  
omrnend it. For two sumnwrs  ~ ~  
now, I haven't taknn it."  I I  
I  
I  
I,.  

page 20 
SMC GOLF 
Hamilton working to keep Belles at top 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
Ask any current member of 

the Saint Mary's golf program 
to recap her experiences with 
the team, and it is most likely 
that there would be very little 
disappointment of which to 
speak. 
For three consecutive years 

-since coach Mark Hamilton 
has taken over the program ­
the Belles have not only cap­
tured the MIAA conference 
title every fall, but have also 
gone on to put themselves 
among the elite of college golf 
by capturing a bid to attend 
the Division-Ill NCAA Golf 
Championships in the spring. 
It could easily be said that it 

has been sheer talent that has 
made Saint Mary's golf so suc­
cessful in the past few years. 
Former members have taken 
home conference titles and 
been named all-conference 
players, and some have gone 
on to gain national recognition 
on both the team and individ­
ual level in the NCAA. 
Hamilton, beginning his 

fourth season with the Belles, 
gives a lot of credit to the abil­
ity of his players for the suc­
cess that he has seen as a 
coach. 
"We've kind of had the play­

ers to make the score," 
Hamilton said. 
After graduating three of the 

most successful golfers in the 
program last spring, it may be 
a bit of a challenge to main­
tain the same level of excel­
lence that the program has 
seen in recent years. But the 
opportunity is still there for 
the members of the Saint 
Mary's team. 
Seniors Nicole Bellino and ~egan Mattia are both MIAA honorable mention players. 
Kirsten Fantom began to eome on especially strong last spring, and Erin McQueen seems ready to step-up to the challenge. Katie O'Brien, the only sophomore on the team, had a couple of opportunities to travel with the team last year and will have some expe­rience to bring into the season~ 
Part of Hamilton's effective­ness as a coach comes from the dedication that he makes to provide an opportunity for the women to improve their skills. A good practice facility, combined with other approaches such as video equipment, allow the girls to use a variety of resources in order to improve their game. 
Hamilton is especially pleased with the potential of this year's freshmen class, one he called the best since taking over three years ago. 
If any new member of the team is unsure of the caliber of previous years' teams, they will soon learn based on the expectations placed on them. 
"The bar has been set," Hamilton said. "I think the expectations are high, and the girls will do what it takes. The freshmen will need to step-up. That will be the factor." 
While the team may not be at championship level yet, the golf season is long and no one is thinking about nationals just yet. The Belles will concen­trate on winning the confer­ence, making adjustments and getting better, and they have until May to get it right. Hamilton is confident that the talent and work ethic are there, and the Saint Mary's golf team will be able to main­tain its position as one of the leaders in Division III Golf. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

MLB 
La Russa n1oves into third in all-time wins 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGH -Tony La Russa got the first of what could be several champagne showers this season. He can only hope the next one comes in very late October. 
La Russa passed Sparky Anderson to move into third place on the manager wins list in the St. Louis Cardinals' 6-3 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates on Thursday night, helped along by Jim Edmonds and Albert Pujols homers in the first inning. 
The Pirates have lost 10 of 13 to the Cardinals, accelerating 
-
La Russa's climb during a sea­son in which he has passed some of baseball's all-time best -Anderson, Bucky Harris and Joe McCarthy. 
Afterward, La Russa had a surprise visitor: former White Sox general manager Roland Hemond, who hired him for his first big league job during the 1979 season. Hemond and Jim Leyland, who was on La Russa's White Sox staff when La Russa was hired as Pittsburgh's man­ager in 1985, joined the Cardinals players in dousing La Hussa with champagne. 
"I've always felt it's not per­sonal, it's organizational and being in the right place at the right time," said La Russa, who won his only World Series with Oakland in 1989, though he got the Cardinals there last season before losing to Boston. "But tonight I'm going to take a little personal tour. It was a very emotional day." 
La Russa's victory No. 2,195 -he trails only Connie Mack (3,731) and John McGraw (2,763)-was Matt Morris' 101st in the majors, and it came in the home away from home for both the Cardinals and the right-hander. The Cardinals' 30 victories at 5­year-old PNC Park are the most of any opponent. St. Louis has won 17 of its last 20 in Pittsburgh, including three of four in this just-concluded series. 
Friday, August 26, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NO GOLF 

Warren earns high praise 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
In the past few weeks, the University unveiled the Guglielmino Center, the football team's brand new practice facili­ty. The building has been hailed as a dramatic step forward in the quality of athletic facilities at Notre Dame. 
At this same time, however, another of Notre Dame's facilities has been quietly gaining national recogniiion as one of the top places to train or play in the country. 
The Warren Golf Course, the five-year-old home of the Irish men's and women's golf teams, was reeently rated the 15th best university course in the nation by "Golf Digest" magazine. 
General Manager John Foster believes the course, which is located north of campus at the corner of Juniper ang Douglas Roads, is still on the rise in the national picture. 
"I think we have the potential to be the top collegiate facility in the nation," he said. 
In its relatively short history, the course has hosted several prestigious amateur events, including qualifiers for the Western Amateur Championship, the U.S. Amateur Championship and an NCAA Regional. Despite such success, Foster is setting his sights even higher. 
"We want to attract an NCAA.. fmal," he said. 
One of the people pushing for more high profile events at the course is its benefactor and namesake Bill Warren, a 1955 Notre Dame graduate and avid golfer. Warren, who was not on the varsity golf team while 

attending the University, realized 
a need for an upgrade the golf 
facilities in the late 1990's and 
offered to endow a replacement 
to the old Notre Dame Golf 
Course, which was located south 
of the Rockne Memorial. 
Warren envisioned a world­

class course, a vision he has 
worked with Foster to bring to 
life. 
"Bill made it clear that the pri­

mary purpose of the golf course 
was to be top flight as far as uni­
versity courses go," Foster said. 
Warren has also contributed 

significant funds above and 
beyond his original endowment 
when the course has needed 
improvements. 
"Mr. Warren continues to make 

investments so we attain even 
higher rankings and a high sta­
tus," Foster said. "If there's ever 
any thing we need, Bill has 
always stepped forward and 
helped us." 
Unfortunately, the course was . not an immediate success. In its 
first few years, the course was 
unevenly kept and golfers com­
plained of, among other things, 
inconsistent greens and roeky 
sand traps. 
However, since Foster took over 

three years ago the course has 
undergone signilieant improve­
ments. He hired Matt Zeilen in 
2004 as superintendent and 
charged him with upgrading the 
faeility. 
Zeilen had previous experience 

at several nationally reeognized 
courses, including Shadow Creek 
in Las Vegas and Wingfoot in 
New York. 
"His resume told me that he 

knew what a quality product was 
and that he could attain that," 
Foster said of Zeilen. "In his short 
year hBre, we've eome 180 
degrees." Varsity golfers have also notieed the difference. 
"The greens are getting a lot better," sophomore Jane Lee said. "The sand traps are fine grain now.. They were a lot rocki­er last year." 
Another improvement for varsi­ty golfers will be a new indoor praetiee facility adjacent to the course. The building, which is being funded mainly by donations from the Rolfs family, is sched­uled to break ground in September and be completed by mid-fall 2006. 
Foster said an indoor facility is key to building nationally com­petitive golf programs. 
"If you're a cold weather golf team, in order to attract top play­ers from across the country, they've got to know they can at least practice all year round," he said. 
The old Notre Dame Golf Course still exists in an abbrevi­ated nine-hole format, having been cut in half to accommodate new dorms on West Quad in the late 1990s. Foster said having two eourses is a major conven­ience for both new and experi­enced players on campus. 
"It's a unique situation in that we have a facility for people who are just beginning or don't want to spend a lot of money, but then those who are more advanced can use the !Warren Course]." 
Both facilities are popular, attracting over 50,000 rounds of golf between them every year. Students, faculty and coaches all use the courses, and there is a tournament for Holy Cross priests every year. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

International Study Programs 

INNSBRUCK and Berlin 
2006-2007 Acadetnic Year 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program Information Session 
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 118 DeBartolo 7:00PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edul-intlstud Questions?-Weber.l5@nd.edu Application Deadline: Nov. 15,2005 
I' 
----~ 
J;riday, August 26, 2005 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 


Tarutis, on our team, does a great job of that." 
Michigan 

Clearly, there is a great continued from page 24 
amount of' respect, understand­
ing and reciprocity on the team the solid Wolverine squad. this year. Michigan qualified for the NCM "''m feeling a ton more confi­tournament last year and, just dent !this season]. We have live like Notre Dame, bowed out in great seniors this year who have the second round. The really workBd hard the past Wolverines are one of eight three years to develop a strong 2004 NCM tournament teams core of a team," Tarutis said. 
on the Irish schedule. 
"I feel that if we play oppo­nents with such a high level that will bring out our high level, and I'm just so excited because I think this team can go really, really "And I'm really comfortable

"!feel that ifwe play 
working with 

opponents with such a all of them this year."
high level that will 
Tarutis's

bring out our high level, 
sophomore

and I'm just so excited. " counterpart, opposite/out­side hitter
Ashley Tarutis 
Adrianna
Irish setter 
Stasiuk, was injured in the 

far," said Tarutis, who is known preseason and will be out for at for her intensity and vocal pres­least another week. The versa­ence on the court. tile, second-year Stasiuk broke 
Senior eo-captain Lauren several ribs about two weeks Brewster, when asked about her ago. own court leadership, praised "I got hurt in preseason, so I Tarutis. won't be playing," she said. "I 
"I know I need to be more of a haven't been playing at all in vocal leader," she said. "Ashley preseason. Next week I get to take X-rays again, and thnn I ean go from there." 
After watching practien for a few weeks, Stasiuk is anxious to get baek on the eourt. 
"I can't wait to play," she said. "I just want to help thn team as best as I ean and to be a really good hittnr and passer." 
For thn season opennr, the Irish will be without a key play­er, but with such strong group of' seniors and returning players, thny hope to get oil' to a positive start. 
Hathnr than stumbling as tlwy did last year against their arehrivals, the Irish look to USI' the first mateh as a jumpstart to the season, a snason for whieh the Irish have high expectations. 
"Our goals arn to win the Big East and to advanen farther than nvnr bnfore in the NCAA tournament," Stasiuk said. 
If the goal is to build a team capabln of' making a long stay in the NCAA tournament, what better plaee to start than against the nnmesis from Ann Arbor'? 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
Belles welcome new coach as team rebuilds 
Jackie Bauters, Class 
of2004, enters her first season in charge 
By JUSTIN O'NEILL 
Sporrs Writer 
Thn tinws arn changing for llw Saint Mary's cross-country tnam, and nobody knows it lwller than now head coach Jackie Bauters. The 2004 col­legn grad is 1-mtering her first snason as head coach, and she's glad it is at hnr alma mater. 
The captain of the team in 2003, Bautnrs expncts hnr nxisting relationships with the runnnrs to help easn her into the position. 
''I'm really excitnd about the opportunity," Bauters said. "Knowing half the girls already helps the transition. It would take longer to build relationships and get results if I were a face nobody had ever seen before." 
Captain Becky F1~auto could­n't agrne more. 
"It's great to have Jackie back -she was a good cap­tain, and thn girls respond well to her leadership," Feauto said. 
Bauters spent the last year getting her Masters in sports psychology at Ithaca College, 
@UiJ©oSfop Shoppingl 

Make your: monthly tuition and room &board payments, get your h6ir cut, and grab 
0 
lunch-all tlt LaFortune Student Center! 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can .bank on us to be better 
021 LaFortune Student Center 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent of the University 

where she was the assistant eoach of the highly competitive D-Ill program. With her help, they ran to 15th place in the NCAA Championship in 2004. 
Haulers replaces long-time head coach Dave Barstis, who has accepted assistant coach­ing duties. Bautnrs said they have a good relationship and expect to be a dynamic pair. 
"We got along really well when 
"It's great to have
I was on. the She feels the team and stayed Jackie back -strength they gain in touch the will help overcome
she was a good
year I was in the injuries that
captain, and the
Ithaca," Bauters have plagued the said. girls respond well team in the past. • ... She has a Feauto likes the
to her leadership. " 
daunting task idea. ahead of her but "In the past, we remains opti­Becky Feauto were supposed to mistic, as the Belles captain work out on the 
Bauters agrees. 
"We h1tvn a vnry young tnam, but I havn my eye on the fresh­men and think tlwy'll h1wn a good Sl·mson," Bautnrs said. 
Setbacks notwithstanding. Bauters aims to bring a much higher lnvol of intensity than thn tnam has known in tlw past. She intends to do so by instituting two mandatory weight lifting ses­sions per week. 
Belles recently encountered some unexpected roster changes. 
Standout Megan Gray suf­fered a serious leg injury last spring and recently started running again. Last season as a freshman, she finished l'irst for the Belles at the NCAA Hegionals. She has been work­ing hard over the summer with therapy treatment and is expected to return this fall. 
"We're just taking it slow, and as long as treatment con­tinues to go well, she will return and be a strong mem­ber of the team," Bauters said. 
Beyond Megan Gray, the Belles lost three runners who were expected to run this fall. 
"It's tough," Feauto said. "We have a few kinks still to iron out, but we have a good group of freshmen coming in, and hopefully they'll balance things out." 
side, but it'll be 

rnueh easier to get motivated when ev1Hybody does it," Feauto said. 
With the higher intensity level, Bauters feels good about the season's outlook. 
"We hope to consistently improve individually and as a team, and we want to be com­petitive in the MIAA's," Haulers said. "I expect that everybody will drop limn throughout the fall, and wn intend to peak at. the confer­ence championships and havo a solid showing." 
Bauters antieipates a good year and a solid team in the years to eome. 
With the young coach at tlw helm of a young tnam and a nasty outlook, the future is bright for Saint Mary's cross­country team. 
Contact Justin O'Neill at joneill@nd.edu 
Write Sports. Call 1-4543. 
""-!--'I 
·: 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, August 26, 2005 


Kickoff 
continued from page 24 
collective mind. 
"There's no way we can look ahead-we've got to get through New Hampshire first," freshman Kerri Hanks said. "We can't even look ahead to the next weekend." 
Hight now, the Irish have to worry about getting the season started on the right foot, and that will start in the team's first two regular season games of the sea­son this weekend. 
"I think we're really good, and [despite) any problems, we think we can win," Hanks said. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum is excited about his team's perform­ance so far this season, but is also aware of what his team needs to do to reach their high expectations. 

He commented at length before son. the season started about how he With this type of returning tal­was proud of his team for work­ent, added to the impressive crop ing hard throughout practice and of freshmen, including Brittany not letting a drop Bock and Hanks, off of any kind to who have played occur. well this summer,
"We've got to get

The Irish should the Irish task be up for this chal­through New should be that lenge, led by Hampshire first." much easier. returning presea­Bock scored twice son All-Americans in Notre Dame's 
Kerri Hanks

Katie Thorlakson, victory over Butler, Candace Chapman Irish forward and Hanks added a and Jen goal and an assist. Buczkowski. Hanks also assisted 
Thorlakson was the 2004 on the second goal against Soccer America player of the Virginia in the 2-0 win. year and Buczkowski earned All­The season begins today at American status last year, as 6:30 p.m. against New Hamp­well. shire. 
Returning in goal for Notre The Irish will· play Vermont on Dame is Erika Bohn, who is the Sunday at 1 pm. 2005 preseason Big East goal­keeper of the year. Bohn led the Contact Bobby Griffin at nation with a 0.41 GAA last sea-rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Football 
continued from page 24 
"It's an amazing place," sen­ior Irish receiver Matt Shelton said. 
There's even a ·recruiting lounge featuring 11 national championship banners and a second-floor picture window with a view of campus. 
"When the recruits come in, 
"It's an
they are going to Notre Dame's see the football unbelievable, top­facilities were program has not in the upper
of-the-line facility." 
really taken a echelon of col­step up," Shelton lege football. But said. "They are Bradley Webb when he arrived going to love it." Irish recruit and found out 
One complaint from potential recruits making visits in the past was the locker room's location at Notre Dame Sta.dium. This required the team to suit up in the stadium, then walk several blocks just to reach the practice field. This factor, combined with a weight room paling in comparison to places at schools like Texas and Nebraska, made choosing a school besides Notre Dame eas­ier for many players. 
But, according to current Irish players and recruits, the Irish football program does not lag behind any more. 
"A new facility like this puts us on another level." sopho­more running back Darius Walker said. "You now get the school with the tradition, and at the same time you get the new facility with the top notch weight room and training pro­gram." 
Bartley Webb, an offensive lineman from Springdale, Ark., who verbally committed to Notre Dame on Aug. 6, was sur­prised and impressed when he 
first saw the "Gug." "It's an unbelievable, top-of­the-line facility," Webb said. 
Webb, a four-star recruit (out of a possible five) by Scout.com, said the complex is in the "same ballpark" as facilities at Tennessee and Arkansas. But the school's history and tradi­tion, combined with the new facility, convinced Webb to play for the Irish. 
Before his unofficial visit to 
Notre Dame, 
Webb had heard 
the school was 
finishing up the new complex, he was impressed. 
"Looking at what they had compared to what they have now, it blew me away," Webb said. "It helped quite a bit knowing I'd be in a brand-new facility with state-of-the-art equipment." 
Notes 
+ Irish senior linebacker Brandon Hoyte is one of 65 players named to this year's Butkus Award watch Jist. The award honors the country's top linebacker. Hoyte, Notre Dame's defensive captain, tallied 74 tackles and three sacks last season. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

VERA BRADLEY'S 
New Fall Designs are 
atltlp~~u 

Irish 
continued from page 24 

"They knocked us out of the tourney two years back," senior captain John Stephens said. "That's always sort of in the back of your mind." 
Notre Dame opened the sea­son Monday with a 1-1 tie with New Mexico at Alumni Field. The Irish struggled in the first half of the game, but looked increasingly impressive through the second half and two subsequent overtime peri­ods. 
In addition to being satisfied with his team's performance against New Mexico, Clark also appreciated the generosity dis­played by Irish fans. All pro­ceeds from Monday's exhibition match went to benefit Grassroot Soccer, a charitable organization dedicated to fight­ing AIDS in Africa through youth soccer clinics. An anony­mous Notre Dame soccer alum­nus and the Notre Dame soccer camp both pledged to match all donations collected at the game. 
"I want to say a big thank you to everyone who came to the game on Saturday and con­tributed to Grassroot," Clark said. "Grassroot Soccer will benefit by over $7,500, which is a terrific response from the Notre Dame community." 
As with Monday's game, Clark is looking to use the con­test in Ann Arbor to develop greater chemistry among his players. 
"Going into every game we look to play well individually and collectively." Clark said. "We have to get into our rhythm. It's very important that we can start building up team­work. 
"I think in the second half on Monday we started to look a lit­tle more like a team. Hopefully we can continue to develop 


Francesco was achef at Notre Dame for 25 years Veal, Seafood, Chicken & Pasta Dishes Pizza, Carry Out, Banquet Rooms, Catering Full Bar Available 

574 256-1444 
1213 Lincoln Way W. Mishawaka RPJI!IUir.illt#A fuggPJ1id (Just West Of The 100 Center) 

Fine Italian Dining Italian & American Cuisine 
this." 
The Irish also want to increase the speed at which they play the game. Clark stressed that he wants his play­ers to pick up the pace, yet remain calm and collected. The coach will look for his team to "hurry slowly" against the Wolverines on Sunday. 
Another focus for the Irish on Sunday will be the continued development of the defense. The Irish lost three top defen­sive players from last season's squad and look to improve upon a solid defensive effort against New Mexico. 
Sunday's game will also fea­ture Clark continuing to test the two goalkeepers competing to replace first team All-American Chris Sawyer. Senior Justin Michaud and junior Chris Cahill both played well on Monday. 
The two will split time against Michigan. 
Notre Dame hopes that Sunday's contest will prepare the team for the tough begin­ning to the regular season that looms only a week away. On Sept. 2 and 4, the Irish will compete in the Indiana Universtiy Credit Union Classic. The team will face two top 25 opponents in SMU and Wake Forest. 
"The game we have to be ready for is SMU," Stephens said. "These games are kind of like learning experiences. We moved up one step on Monday. If we can move up another step on Sunday, I'll like where we are at." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 


Friday, August 26, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROSSAINTWORLD 



JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 


I'VE-BEEN 1-\IR,E}) B'l 11-\E.. l.\NI"ER<;,IIj 
To KEEP 'JOU. \<..IDS F~OM OFf'-(.AMPUS PA~Ti E:; ' By
Pf:..OI'I\0111'1 1.:1 FUN, 
ON-C. P.I'IIP\.\C:, E\/ENT.5 
WATS (JR.t:.Af, "e>UT I' \1 E.. NP.I':A.D'f MA"DE OfF-CAM PUS 
PLANS FOR -roNil:IHT. 
REALL'j? TI-\ATS fuNN'#J BH-A\..I~E-\ 11-\01..\(;( ~· '/OU. ~ Ei?-E PLA'I IN (l" ON ~£ QUA")::> \NIT~-"' ONE_ OF T\-IE"SIE PRI.>MOOIONA\.. FI'-.I:>BEF..S ">----"\UN 11..:11-1 T. 
JUMBLE 
JJ~JK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TUILB 
j
I I r () 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
PHACT 
j
rJ r
tSTUMEK j
J r
1 
www.jumble.com 
LEEXUD 
rJ rJ
1 
Answer: 

1Tl I I I Jl I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday'  Jumbles:  UNIFY  HOVEL  CACTUS  PAUNCH  
s  Answer:  What his wife concluded he had when he went  
on an ice cream diet-A"FAT'' CHANCE  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 


'NHY THE: ORC.HES­TRA FUNCTIONED LIKE C.LOC.KWORK. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Watchdog on 2 Padded things the payroll
Like a serape 3 Rat follower 38 Shows what a

16 Demographic 4 "A Spy in the 
person is made
datum House of Love" 
of 
author 39 Hatch closer? 

17 Classic 1978 
rock song with 5 Michigan county the lyric 40 They frequently or its seat "Nothing to do I change in 
6 Complicated 
Nowhere to go" airports, in brief situation 

18 It's observed in 41 More than an 7 It can be kicked
L.A. uptick 8 Local stock

19 Something to 42 Hands look through 9 Humanities 
43 Mug with a mug 20 Deep-six 
degs.

46 Island where a 21 Riga resident, noted Greek 10 Woman's name 
e.g. statue was meaning "life" found

22 It might need a 11 Cardinal fitting 49 Calendar abbr. 
12 Needing to cool 25 Tony's portrayer 50 Lean meat down, maybe on "N.Y.P.D. 
53 Game settings 13 Enemy of Blue" Carthage58 Rush-hour 

28 fide 
observation 14 Quite a while 29 Computer 
59 TV ad line 15 Sparks and printer meas. 

others 32 Billy Dee 
DOWN 21 Bathroom fixture
Williams's "Star Wars" role 1 Sassy sort 22 Professional helpers, briefly 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 23 Pelvis part 
-:-:-r-:-r-:-r:-":"1 24 Lead-in for deux, trois or quatre 
"1nw~~·· 25 Beautiful people
.iii 26 More together 
-...=+:::+-:~:+:-:+=:-t 27 Not sitting well? "'"""+::=-+-:::-!-::-! 28 Debutantes: Abbr. 
29 "I'm right there -::+-:::i'~~-~~~ with you" 
~~=+:'="! 30 Painter Veronese 
-::+-=+:+::-1 31 Against a thing, legally 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

33 1987 world 45 Lady in "The 51 Paltry figure skating Sun Also Rises" 
52 Gadgeteers'champion 46 Cardinal concerns 
34 "Benjamin" 47Piow 54 Kind of dye 
35 Dad's rival 36Wait 
48 Telemarketing 55 Modern joke aid response
42 Results of some traumas 49 Enterprise 56 Part of a counselor mustard plant
43 Country club? 44 Boots 50 By any chance 57 Density symbol 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday .-­crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kel Mitchell, 27; Claudia SchiiTer, 35; Tim Burton, 47; Elvis Costello, 51 
Happy IJirthday: You are so changeable this year that no one will know exactly how to deal with you or what to expect. Don't let this alarm you. Let loose and have some fun. Think about all the ideas you have and things you want to do and begin the process of getting things off the ground. Your numbers arc 2, 5, 22,26,39,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may have to pick up the slack ifa colleague is dragging his or her feet. Don't feel bad--this person will do the same li.1r you. A partnership looks promising. ••• TAUIWS (April 20-May 20): You may lind it dil"licult to keep your emotions in check. Don't let minor aggruvations tum into major concerns. lk mature, listen and observe. Think belore you act. •• • GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): Everything will appear to be going line, but beware of someone who may be withholding information. Make physical as well as mental improvements today. An enlightening class or a shopping spree could 
help.••• CANCER (.June 21~July 22): Partnerships will take a tum. Someone from your past may confuse you. Travel and teaming arc your areas ofsuccess. lnli.mnation received via e-mail or telephone may alter your future. • • • • LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let things get you down. The more independent you are, the better you will do and the more respect you will gain. •• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): An opportunity will present itself to lind out information that will lead you in the right direction. By taking an unusual approach to something you have done well in the past, you will discover a completely new outlet. ••••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You have so much going for you, so stop 
procrastinating and take a chance. A partnership will affect the outcome of something you pursue. A creative idea will take shape if you give it a little thought. ••• 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Stop yourself before you overanalyze what is going on. Things are not likely to be as they appear. You may deceive yourself into thinking someone is doing you an injustice but it probably won't be the case. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your determination will give you the drive to finish what you set out to do today. Your curiosity will get the better of you. but as long as you don't stray too far off your original plans, it won't cause a setback. ••• CAPRICORN (Hec. 22-.Jan. 19): You are always taking care ofeveryone else's needs; try to please yourself for a change. If someone is unhappy with your decisions, you may want to reevaluate your relationship. ••• •• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let your emotions lead you down the wrong road today. Lots of good results will take place if you compromise and avoid unnecessary debates. • • PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A lot can change in a day, and today is one that can bring favorable results. Partnerships and creative pursuits look good. A love connection is looking positive. • ••• 
llirthday llaby: You have a way about you that draws people to your side. You're responsible and stable yet fun-loving. 
Eugenia's Weh sites: astroadvice.comji>r jim. eugenialast.comfi"· co•!fidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
-
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, August 26, 2005 
page 24 
,------­
Irish look to defend 2004 title in season's kickoff away games 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
In Notre Dame's two exhibi­tion games this August, the team won both games and scored 10 goals. 
< But when the season officially starts this weekend, when Notre Dame travels to the University of Vermont to take on New Hampshire and Vermont today and Sunday, respectively, the Irish will realistically only have one goal. Win -and win often. That should be expected for a team that earned its first pre­season No. 1 ranking in the school's history after five con­secutive years at preseason No. 2. It should also be expected for a team that defeated UCLA in last year's NCAA title game on penalty kicks. But at this point in the season, even though Notre Dame returns nine starters and 13 of the top 15 players from last year's championship squad, the thought of repeating as the NCAA National Champions is not at the front of the group's 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
see KICKOFF/page 22 
The first big test 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

Teatn vvill host rivals 
•

In opener 
Michigan featured in first fall match at the Joyce Athletic Center 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 

It's the first match of the sea­son, and the Irish already have revenge on their minds. 
Notre Dame plays host to the Michigan Wolverines Saturday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. Last season, the Irish traveled to Ann Arbor and fell in four games, 23-30, 25-30, 30-27 and 30-32. While the Wolverines improved to 11-2, the Irish stag­gered to 5-5. 
This year, the Irish vow, will be different. 

"Michigan is always a big opponent for us, and they always have a good team," sophomore setter Ashley Tarutis said. "This is our first game of this year, and I just really want to show Michigan what Notre Dame has to offer this season." 
The Irish plan to offer more than just good competition for 
see MICHIGAN/page 21 

FOOTBALL 
Recruits enjoy new facility 
Luxurious settings at the Guglielmino attract new players 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
So much of Notre Dame leaves visitors in awe. The Golden Dome, the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the Grotto. But in past years, recruits haven't been overwhelmed by one aspect of campus ­the football facilities. 
That all changed earliPr this month with the opening of the Guglielmino Athletics Complex, better known as the "Gug." The new facility hous­es every aspect of the football program from the coaches' offices to the locker rooms. 
see FOOTBALL/page 22 


MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish travel north to exhibition play 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sporrs Writer 
When the Irish and Wolverines get together, it always seems to mean something extra. 
Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark feels that the rich history between 
Notre Dame and Michigan raises the level of importance of Sunday's exhibition mateh in Ann Arbor. 


"They're a Stephens good team," Clark said. "And then when you add the fact of the Notre Dame­Michigan rivalry, that makes it a game that is going to count in everybody's minds." 
Michigan should prove to be a tough opponent for the Irish. Led by coach Steve Burns, the Wolverines return several play­ers from last season's squad that finished second in the Big Ten and was eliminated by eventual NCAA champion Indiana in the second round of the NCAA tour­nament. Michigan returns two of its top three leading goal scorers from a year ago in sen­ior forward Trai Blanks and jun­ior forward Bobby Trybula. Starting goalie Peter Dzubay is also back after recording 62 saves in 2004. 
The Irish players have some additional motivation for Sunday's game. 
see SOCCER/ page22 
SMC CROSS COt.WmY 
Nil GOLF 
SMC GOlF 

NFL 
CYCUNG 
MlB

en ..... 
In his fourth season

1--
Co) Belles hire new 
49ers mourn for 
NY Mets 18 
with the Belles, Saint
z coach 

lost player 
Arizona 4

Seven-time Tour de 
Mary's coach Mark
Golf Digest ranked 

France winner Lance 
The Mets held off the
::5 
Hamilton hopes to lead

=c:s jackie Bauters, Class 
the Warren Golf Course 

The team will honor 
Armstrong called the 
Diamonbacks to stay
the team to a fourth
of 2004, returns to coach 
15th among university 

Thomas Herrion with 
latest doping allegations 
alive in the wild card
< 
consecutive MIAA title. 
at Saint Mary's. 
golf courses.' 

decals on their jerseys. 
"a setup." 
race.
t:i 
page 21 
page 20

en 
page 18 
page 17
page 20 
page 14 

-

IJIIII·~·
·· ... '··~····
,.,. 
;J~' 
·~·· 

With C}uarterback guru Char .,...............,,,r......,....... :... ,...,..• ,,"". thircl-year starter Brady Quinn b""······""·,.·"'··....... A.,,A;~il.Ji~D· 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 26, 2005 
Weis' first year also provides Quinn's biggest test 
Brady Quinn's been here before. 
On Sept. 27, 2003, in his first career start on the road against Purdue, Quinn was in the exact same posi­tion as he will be come Sept. 3 against Pittsburgh. 
He was playing away from home. He was at a new level of football than he'd been accus­tomed to the year prior (at Dublin-Coffman High School in Ohio). He was learning a new offense on-the­go. 
But in 2003, Quinn was also a 
fn~shman. 
Yes, he took his bumps (four interceptions against Purdue) and bruises (Notre Dame did not make a bowl). Critics fabricated a quarterback controversy and argued whether it was wise to throw Quinn into the fire. 
But few people -if any­have pointed the finger at Quinn for Notre Dame's mishaps or its 11-13 record over the past two seasons. 
Beginning with his 59 pass attempts against Purdue and ending this spring in a brief Blue-Gold game appearance, Quinn has had the Get-Out-Of­Jail-Free card in the game of 

Notre Dame Football monopoly. 
But now, with a championship­
caliber offense in town under a head coach who specializes with · quarterbacks, all eyes will focus on how well the junior -voted team co-captain with fifth-year linebacker Brandon Hoyte -can lead Notre Dame back to where everyone in and around the pro­
gram expects it to be. · 
First, though, understand that 
Quinn deserved his Get-Out-Of­
Jail Free card. He rolled doubles 
his freshman year, and that 
earned him an extra turn. 
The past two seasons, the over­
all and offensive coaching were 
lackluster. Last season, the sec­
ondary made few plays to help a 
quarterback with a 125.87 pass­
er efficiency rating. 
All three of those areas have 
been addressed. Head coach 
Charlie Weis brought a proven 
offense from the NFL, along with 
quarterback experience in assis­
tant Peter Vaas, offensive intelli­
gence in coordinator Michael 
Haywood and NFL-level second­
ary coaching in assistant Bill 
Lewis. 
Can Notre Dame's coaches 
guarantee that the team's prob­
lem areas will altogether disap­
pear? No. Has Weis promised to 
win every game? No, in fact, he 
has said the opposite. He will 
make no guarantee other than 
his team being completely pre­
pared for every game it plays. 
But then critics and fans read 
about the coaching experience, 
the fresh start, the past success 
of so many of the men on staff, and it all comes down to one conclusion: People will expect 
. Brady Quinn to play well under Weis, to score points and to win games -and they will expect it from him first, because during a dry spell in Notre Dame football greatness, Quinn remained a bright spot, and everyone will expect that to continue. Right now, Weis and his assis­tants believe Quinn has the work ethic, intelligence, arm strength and touch of a starting college quarterback. "Brady's a student of the game," offensive coordinator Mike Haywood said. "We watch film as a team usually, and every time there's a correction being made, he's the gentleman that is always writing down notes." The nation knows Quinn has the tools, as well. He was named to Maxwell Award watch list in June as one of 53 prospective candidates for college football player of the year. All it takes is adjustment to the system. "What he probably lacks is experience as far as reading cov­erages and really understanding schematically in my offense how plays are going to be run," Weis said. "In other words, [that means] where the ball is sup­posed to go based on what they do. "The sooner that myself and Peter Vaas and Michael Haywood can get that conveyed to Brady, I think you're go going to have a very good player." What the coaches expect from Quinn is not a complete mystery. 

Weis expects efficiency, just as he did from Tom Brady in New England. But he also expects leadership, and Quinn has no shortage of that, either. 
"The fact that the team voted for him as a junior to be the offensive captain in a landslide, it obviously tells me without me even having to say it myself, what the team thinks of his lead­ership ability," Weis said. 
Quinn will hear what a lot of people think about his leader­ship, his adjustment, his skills and his presence this fall. But that should be alright with .him. 


As a season approaches with expectations but no certainties, Quinn has proved he is the clos­est thing the team has to a sure thing. 
And he will become -along with Weis -the new face of Irish football, for better or for worse. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the The Observer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard. edu. 

SENIOR PORTRAITS! Sign up on the Internet NOW @ www.LaurenStudios.cotn to ensure your place in your 2006 Dome Yearbook! Who: Class of 2006 When: Pictures taken Aug. 29-Sept. 16 Where: LaFortune 108 Why: To be in the 2006 Dome Remember to Sign Up Today! www.LaurenStudios.com 1-800-888-5155 ~~~  

Friday, August 26, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Turning a new page 
Changes in coaching staffand athletic facility mark 2005 season's tone 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sport.; Writer 
Tlwr1~ is a nnw coaching starr. a new facility and maybn most importantly, a nnw sea­son. For this ynar's Irish. <:om­ing ofT a 6-6 campaign, these chang1~s snnm to hn good things. 
"l was oxcit<1d lf'or thn first 
gam n I as soon as l got back 
f'rom sumnwr." junior safety 
Torn Zbikowski said. "I've 
bonn waiting for Sept. 3 since 
tho end of the snason. l mean. 
wn want to prove to the nation 
that we're not a 6-6 program." 
Welcoming fresh faces 
When Charlin Wnis was introduced as the nnw head wa<:h on Dnc. I:~. he began to snt thn tonn for his tenure at Notr1~ l>anw. 
"I can tn II you this," lw said. "You arn going to have a hard­working, intnllignnt, nasty football team that goes on the l'inld lwcausn .lhn attitude of' tlw head coach will be pnrme­atnd through tlw playnrs. And l hatn to include the nasty, but that is part of' bning a winning foot hall tnam." 
And sinen hn was hired, Wois has worked to instill his attitude in his playnrs and 1:oaching staff'. 
"l think wn definitely have takon on some of' the attitude and pnrsonality that Coach W11is has. that Coal'h W11is has on the offensive side of the ball and on the defensive side of the ball," ol'f'Pnsive linnman ltyan Harris said. "I think that's just a mir.rocosm of us playing under his system." 
And nxactly what is that atti­tude that Wnis trins to pass down'! 
"Definitely physical, definite­ly not acr,epting anything but pnrf'nction," Harris said. "II' you have a good play you can still gnt coachnd up on it. Nnvnr bn satisfied with what you aro -always gnt better. 

And work through the tough times at practice and the hard days." 
Weis, however, hasn't been exactly what llarris expected coming in. 
"The way he spoke to us in camp and the way he coaches us definitely is contradicting to how player-friendly he is," Harris said. "Sometimes he coaches us hard, but at the same time, if we do what he asks, he has no problem being a player-friendly coach." 
Besides his own philoso­phies, Weis brought along with him an experienced coaching staff. From director of personnel development Hon Powlus, who played at Notre Damn, to defensive 
backs/assistant head coach for defense Bill Lewis, who coached nine seasons in the NFL, the Irish have a variety of coaches from a range of backgrounds. 
Quarterbacks coach Peter Vaas replaced David Cutcliffe in June when Cutcliffe resigned due to health rea­sons. Vaas came from NFL Europe, where he was a head coach. Third-year quarterback Brady Quinn describes Vaas as a detailed-oriented coach much like Weis. 
"They've been on us all camp about different things with the offense or with our technique," Quinn said of Vaas and Weis. 
There's also recruiting coor­dinator/wide receivers coach Hob lanello, who has helped Weis land 12 verbal commit­ments thus far. But Ianello came to j\lotre Dame for a dif­ferent reason. 
"I think the opportunity now to take Notre Dame to its rightful place· in college foot­ball was too great of an opportunity to pass up," he said. 
Playing catch-up 
Many major Division I col­lege football programs have breathtaking facilities. Take Syracuse, a 2005 Irish oppo­nent. The Orange has a com­puter eluster for its student­athletes as well as a eaf'eteria all in the same building as its weight room, meeting rooms and more. 
And at Notre Dame, thanks to a donation from Don F. and Flora Guglielmino, the Irish were able to enter the facili­ties race. 
The Guglielmino Athletics Complex opened earlier this month on the campus. adja­eent to the Loftus Center. It housns all of the football lo<:k­er rooms and coaches' offices. Its facilities are statn of the art, with a brand new weight room, training room, recruit­ing lounge and meeting rooms. 

"We wanted a elean slate ­
new coaches, everyone's new, 
new facilities, new every­
thing," Zbikowski said. 
"It's awesome," freshman Paul Duncan said. "Everything's right here. It's really nice." 
Starting over 
With 10 starters returning, the Irish offense is excited to get back on the field for a new season. Now that they have a new offense, it's another chance to show what they can do under the reins of Quinn. 
"A clean slate, yes and no, just in the fact that we have a new offense, we have a new opportunity to execute the 
plays that we'rn given and the 
kind of rnnntality and thn 
atmosphere that we'rn 
around," Harris said. "So it's a 
nnw start, as far as a ·rlnan 
slate, l don't know if I'd call it 
that, hut def'initnly a f'rnsh 
start and a nnw opportunity." 
And with only a wPnk until 
the first garnn. tlw Irish 
o('f'pnsn is starting to l'nnl lwt­
tP.r about its abilities. 
"We l'nnl vnry c:onfidnnt right 
now." senior widn rncn iVI~ r 
Maurice Stovall said. "Wn 
expnct to win a lot of' gamns 
and go out and corn pntn 
everyday and wp, try to bring 
that to practice evnryday, also. 
I like the way wn'rn approach­
ing the game now. Guys are 
morn c:onfidnnt and wo·n~ 
going to bn morn PIT<~ctive this 
year." 
Proving a point For the past two ynars, tlw 
.Irish have had disappointing 
seasons, with a 5-7 rncord in 
2003 and a 6-6 record last 
snason. This year's tnarn is on 
a mission to show that is not 
its kind or tnam. 
"If anything, we have to prove a lot to ourselvns, nach other, the coaching staff' has been putting a lot of el'f'ort into it," Stovall said. "We had to overcome all the troubles we had in the offsP.ason as far as coaehing c:hangns. But we're more focused now, and yeah, we have a lot of facilities, but if' anything, we have to prove it to ourselves." 
Zbikowski, the leader of a secondary that was especially picked on last season-giving up an average of 281.2 yards per game in the air -said the team has extra motivation to do well this season. 
"It's also we want to prove to ourselves," he said. "We put in so much work, the coaches put in so much work -we deserve to win and that's what we want to do." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Then Guglielmino Athletics Complex, a $21.25 million project, is Notre Dame's new state-of-the-art athletic facility. 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 26, 2005 
Corne-rback: Terrail Lambert, Sophomore· Nicknamed "Lamborghini" by his teammates~ .-~ Lambert garnered All-Big East honors in track··: last spring in the 60-meter dash. While he did not 
· see the field last year, Lambert was selected as an . ~-~· ESPN top 100 player (85) coming out ofhigh school. . . 

·Apache Linebacker: Maudt!;~~; 1L sop1honrlote A Blue team starter at Apache linebacker in the annuaL Gold game last spring, Crum Jr. picked up' three tackles in contest. Crum Jr. did not play as a freshman. ·· 
Right End: Victor Abiamiri. Junior A first-team USA Today prep All-American out ofhigh school, Abiamiri sat out most of 
the spring with a leg injury, but he returns ......,.,.~, .....,.r.:: 
healthy this falL Abiamiri has playedin 24 straight games and is the team's most reliable 

sco 
lNG 
' .. : . .. .. . '. ' ~ -. 
Free Safety: Tom Zbikowski, Junior "c} c A USA Today first-team All-American out ofhigh school, Zbikowski didn't see the field in 2003 but started alll2 games at strong safety last year, recordi_rig 70 tackles·(3? solo), including a team-high nine against Michigan State last September. 

Middle Linebacker: Corey 
to step in at middle. linebacker, spent most ofthis time last year pn where he made 219 app'earances, good highest on the team. Mays'fecorded 1 and picked up a pair ofsacks in 2004 •' 

Rashon Powers-Neal, Senior 



Pittsburgh Michigan 
3 
Sept. 10 Head coach: 
. 13, 11, Pittsbmgh 41, Notre Dame 28, Notre Dame 38 Michigan 20 
Michigan State Sept. 17 Headeoach: John L. Smith Last year's record: 5-7 Last gartl.~ vs. ND: Sept.lS~ 2004; Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 24 


Purdue usc 
Oct. 15 Head coach: Pete Carroll 

Last year's record: 13-0 
Last Last game vs. ND: Oct. 2, Nov. 27, 2004; Purdue 41, usc 41, 
Brigham. Notre Dame 16 Notre Dame 10 NotreJ 


Friday, August 26, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
THE IRISH 
Strong Safety: Chinedum Ndukwe, Junior A CBS Sportsline All-American out ofhigh school, Ndukwe played in nine games last year, mostly on special teams, where he logged 87 appearances. Ndukwe played at both safety and Apach• linebacker during spring football. 

Cornerback: Mike Richardson, Senior A veteran in the Notre Dame secondary, Richardson has played in all 12 both games both ofthe last t:Wo 

· years, including a team-high 242 special teams appearances in 2004. Richardson was ·credited with ....--~~~~ .33 tackles (25 solo) and intercepted a pass last season. 

',' ,',; 
Will Linebacker: Brandon Hoyte, Senior l teams, The leader of the defense, co-captain Hoyte islooking ·second to best a solid 2004 season in which he posted a team· ··.· s(6solo) second-nigh 78 tackles (38 solo), eight tackles-for-loss, 
.~ ....-,,.. 
,_...__"'· three sacks and three forced fumbles. Hoyte played in all 12 games last year, inchiding four starts. 

Trevor Laws, Junior Left End: Chris Frome, Senior sive MVP ofthe 2005 Blue-Gold Game, A veteran defensive lineman, Frome freshman 'year with an injury but played . started for the Blue team in the annual last year, recording 17 tackles (8 solo), Blue-Gold game and turned in a four­
overy, two deflections and a sack against · \':._._.., tackle (two solo), two-and-a-half sack performance. Frome saw the field in seven games last year and five the previous 
Right Tackle: Mark LeVoir, 
Tight End: Anthony Fasano, Senior .......,..,~~;uu·Jl•• A strong, experienced lm,:man..-'iM candidate for the John Mackey Award ;, has started each ofNotre Dame's : the nation's top tight end), Fasano started 
24 games, including all 12 at left games last season, posting a team secono1-1 guard in 2003 and all 12 at right tackle 27 catches for 367 yards and four touch-. · last year. .·downs. Against Purdue, Fasano set an Irish 
n posted the best passing numbers in Notre Dame history. 
running for three more 
· · .·~:;:::<'':i":· '.:;:Jt.Wide Receiver: Rhema~ practice this fall. He caught a couple oftouchdown passes la.st .~:~:: McKnight, Senior. The leading ;.,\\::ii'':· .. . 
· Irish receiver each ofthe past. · ·two seasons, McKnight is currently.· No.7 in Notre Dame history in both 
... ', 

receptions (98) and receiving ya~ds (1,301). Last year, McKnight caught emaining 2004 contests, including a pair ofstarts. Walker set a •·•· . 42 passes for 610 yards and three touchdowns. 
Navy Syracuse

Young Tennessee Stanford 
22 Nov. 5 Nov. 12 Nov. 19 Nov.. 2(i Head coach: Head coach: Head coach:

.,... ' 
Greg Robinson
PaulJQ~ Walt Harris L-y~s. : Last year's record: 

Lastyear's record: . ~ti;~~ 6-6 4.;.7 ~~ame:ls. : Last game vs. ND: Last. game vs. ·;ND: .,oct. 16, 2004; Dec. 6, 2003; Oct. 9, 2004; Notre Dame 27, Syracuse 38, Notre Dame 23, Navy9 Notre Dame 12 
Stanford 15 
page 5 

Predictions 
Tyrone Willingham got all the breaks during his first year as Irish coach in 2002. Charlie Weis won't be so fortunate. A brutal schedule including games against Michigan, Tennessee and USC will prove just how inexperienced the Notre Dame secondary is. But a loaded 

Mike Gilloon

defensive line along with a tal­ented, experienced offense will Sports Editor keep the Irish close in every game. Weis' savvy play calling 
Prediction:

will be a weapon itself and is worth at least two wins. But if 9-3 the new coach and his squad Bowl win find those breaks, this will be a magical season. 
!leading into th!\ 2005 season,
Matt Puglisi 

the excitement surrounding
Associate 

Notre Dame football has hit a
Sports Editor 

fever piteh -and with good reason. !lead eoaeh Charlin Weis ­has brought a new attitude to a
Prediction: 

program in desperate need of 8-4 regaining the swagger of its 
Bowl win glory days. Ten returning oJTnn­sive starters, Weis' expertis11 and the eontinuing dev!11opment of quarterback Brady Quinn will put points on the board. Stopping the opposition on defense -especially against strong aerial attacks -will be a ditTerent story. Should the young secondary come together undnr experienced formnr NFL coach Bill Lewis, it could be a spndal season in South Bend, if not a huge step forward. 
The Irish offense will thrive under head coach Charlie Weis -that is no secret. The ques­tion is can the defense do enough? And they will do 

.­
enough because Brady Quinn will have a career year and Darius Walker will continue to improve. Scoring points will no 
Heather Van

longer be a struggle. The see­ondary will not have to be out­Hoegarden standing -just better than last Sports Writer year -and they will be. The Irish won't win a National Championship but this year will Prediction: be a step in the right direction. 8-4 Notre Dame has found the right 
Bowl win 

coach to bring the program back. 

Notre Dame has a new coach, and that will mean the world to sending this program in the right direction. The Irish will not blow many teams out, but Notn\ Dame will win games it isn't supposed to this season. Though many players have left the team this fall, their departure only indicates 
Pat Leonard 

one thing: the guys remaining are
Sports Writer 

ready to play. Though the Irish may not have the talent to com­pletely turn things around right
Prediction: 

away, Weis and staff will show 8-4 athletic director Kevin White this Bowl win season that missing on Urban 
Meyer was a blessing in disguise. 
.· 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 26, 2005 
PLAYERS TO WATCH
Sizing up last year's perforn1ance 
BRADY QUINN BRANDON HOYTE 
QUARTERBACK LINEBACKER 
total points scored 
total points allowed 
rushing TDs scored rushing TDs allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing TDs scored 

Co-captain Brady Quinn, in his second full sea­

:!_Jassing TDs allowed 
son and third overall under center, spearheads an Irish offense that returns 10 starters. On pace to break nearly every Irish passing record, Quinn will be instrumental in determining whether or not
passing yards gained 
Notre Dame can best last year's 6-6 mark. 
passing yards allowed 
Co-captain Brandon Hoyte leads an inexperi­enced defense that was decimated by the pass last season. While many would argue he's already done so, Hoyte is eager to prove himself all over again.
first downs 
first downs allowed 
by the numbers 
field goals scored 
field goals against 
Notre Dame's all-time winning 
7 4 3 4 

percentage. The Irish fell just behind • 
Michigan (.7459) last season.
-
Irish time of possession 
4 
Super bowl rings owned by Notre Dame coach
Opponents' T.O.P. 
Charlie We is. He won one with the New York Giants in 1990 and three with the New England Patriots. 
Games Notre Dame will play against teams
yards penalized 
ranked in the pre-season top 25, including No.1 
Opponents' yards penalized 
USC on Oct. 15 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
5 


Watch all ND Games -Most and
2046 South Bend Ave Largest Screens in Town
Across from Martins Plaza Never a cover with Student ID
272-1766 GO IRISH 

MONDAY~ 
All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets, Monday Night Football on HDTV 
TUESDAY ND penny night, $1 off cover with student ID, DJ all night, 1¢. wells and drafts 
WEDNESDAY Live trivia night with cash prizes and free drinks, 1 to 8 people per team, 8:00 p.m. to 
10:00 p.m. Defending champs: ND law Legal Eagles. 69¢. bitty burger, 49¢. wings, $10.00 buckets 

THURSDAY 2nd Penny night. 1¢. wells and drafts, DJ plays hits all night long 
FRIDAY DJ till 3:00a.m., pre-game warm up 
SATURDAY Game day-Go IRISH. DJ after games, celebrate victory and boogie till dawn. ESPN game plan 
SUNDAY $1.50 burgers, dogs, fries and bottles. NFL Sunday tickets -14 screens. 
~-----.-------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, August 26, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Irish look to 'twin towers' Stovall, Samardzija 
By MATT PUGLISI AmJCiate Sports Editor 
llnight is typically assodat­nd with tlw advantagn it gives haskntball players. 
But thny'rn not the only onns honnliting. 
A pair of giants in 6-foot-5 rncnivc~rs Maurkn Stovall and .lnfl' Samardzija, in addition to (J-foot-2 HhPnHt McKnight, givns quartnrhack Brady Quinn a trio of tall targnts. 
Samardzija said Irish wad1 Charlin WPis is !'onstantly looking for t.lw mismatdws that. c·.an lnad t.o big plays ­mismatclws that. arc~ signifi­cantly nasinr to lind when two of tlw t.nam's taiiPst players arP lining up at. widn ·rncoiver. 
"Coa!'h is rnal big with mat!'hups around tlw field. and if lw snns a mismatch hdWI'f'll hnight.s bdwonn a rnen ivn r and a I dPI'e nsive hack!. lw Jikns those~ things," Samardzija said. "l think, in his nyns. lw snns it as an advantage~ for the oiTnnsn -if guys want to eonw up and prnss Mo. nw or nvcm Hhnma, it's going to lw a littln bit toughnr, having 20-:~0 pounds on tlw ldc-f'cmsivc~ backs!." 
i\lthough snparation nxnr­c isns arn c~ssn n tial to th n dnvnlopnwnt of any rocoivnr, tlw drills takn on additional importance for tho Irish eon­sidnring tlw unique circum­stanc:ns prnsontnd by their tall l'ranws. 
"Wn do a lot of one-on-one and a lot of rolnasn drills," Samardzija said. "Wn try to cover every phase of every differnnt situation that we might see on the field that people am going to try to put upon us as big receivers to make us feel uncomfortable." 
But th1~ specific techniques that Samardzija and Stovall employ to utilize their height differ. 
"Obviously there's two dif­ferent ways to usc that type of sizn, and I think that they both have thnir own defining way of using that to their advantage," Wnis said. "Mo uses his size mainly by his strength, whereas Jnl'f uses his size in what I call morn torque-morn body posi­tion." 
Whetlwr or not Weis and the Notre Damn offense arn able to take advantage or the !wight remains to be seen. 
WhiiP. Stovall played in thmn fnwer overall games last season than during his sopho­more campaign. he actually startnd five morn eontests but regressed in all notable statis­tical categories. After posting 22 catchns for 421 yards and thrP.e touchdowns in 2003, Stovall caught 2 I passes and raeknd up only 313 yards and one touchdown last scmson. 
I Iowever, Stovall lost 10 to 15 pounds over the summer to hopefully have the break­out snason projncted by his selection as a first-team USA Today All-American coming out of high sdwol. 
"I think that we definitely will use our size as an advan­tage, and that Coach Weis will put us in a position to make plays using our size," Stovall said. "Losing weight over summer has helped me a lot, running routes or just having more stamina on the field. It's made a big diiTerence for me, and I think it will help me be more effective o·n offense." 
As the days tick down to the season opener next Saturday against Pittsburgh at Heinz Field, Quinn and his receivers continue to iron out any remaining wrinkles and work on the little things that can make a world of difference. 

"It's kind of funny how much we know each othnr on the !ield when it comes to lit­tle mannerisms," Sarnardzija said. "You have to have that type or communication to be successful, and I think we're getting there -we're not quito there yet-but every day we're just getting morn ­on the same page." 
While Weis' arrival has resulted in even greater fan­fare than already accompa­nies a new Notre Dame foot­ball season, Stovall and com­pany have some big expecta­tions of their own. 
"I feel like we're very much ready to go," Stovall said. "We've had a lot of experience -the offense was pretty diffi­cult, as is leaming any offense, but the way that it was explained to us, it makes it easier. We have a Jot of con­fidence going into the season, and we expect big things from eaeh other." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpugiisi@nd.edu 


Zbikowski leads inexperienced secondary 
Defensive backs coach Bill Lewis must rebuild 116th-best passing defense 

By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
When named head coach at East Carolina in 1989, Bill Lewis inherited a program that had gone 2-9, 5-6 and 3­8 in the three years previous to his hire. The Pirates had not been to a bowl game since 1978 and had earned a spot in the year-end AP poll only once -a No. 20 ranking in 1983. 
When he left East Carolina in 1991, he had just led the squad to an 11-1 record, a No.9 

final national "All ofour guys, both ranking and a 
older guys and 
3 7-34 victory 

younger guys, have a
over North Carolina State in lot ofwork to do. " the Peach Bowl. Still, even for a 
Bill Lewis
coach as accom­

Irish defensive backs 
plished as Lewis -tho first-year coach 
Notre Dame defensive baeks coach/ assistant head coach (defense) -tuming around a secondary that ranked 116th in the country in pass defense in 2004 is no small task. 
"All of our guys, both older guys and youngor guys, have a lot of work to do," Lewis said on media day Aug. R. "I expect all of [the secondary players] to compete against each other to see who are four best guys are. This is as competitive a spot as there is anywhere on the team." 

But the secondary lacks severely in experience. Only two players in the Irish defen­sive backfield have ever start­ed a college football game ­Mike Hichardson and Tommy Zbikowski. 
The position was depleted even more this ol'f'-season with the transfnr or junior Freddie Parish IV to Division 1-AA Stephen F. Austin State University. Sophomore Junior Jabbie also switched last week from cornerback to run­
ning back. Weis has 
not released a depth chart. but Zbikowski and sopho­m o r ~~ Anthony Vemaglia urn the frontrun­ners for the free and strong safety spots, respec­t i v e I y . Hichardson and sopho­

more Terrail Lambnrt, who never set foot on th1~ field last season, have a hold on thn two cornerbaek roles. 
Zbikowski looks at tho lack of experience as somothing that can be ovnrcome in one sure way success. "We've got a lot of J'rnsh faces that don't have a Jot or expe­rience from last year," Zbikowski said. "But if we start off good that confidence is going to build really fast." 
Though scanning the roster might give somn eoachns rna­son to go into panic modo, Lewis has rnmainnd ealm and steady throughout fall eamp. 

"I Lewis I is actually a patient coaeh," freshman safety David Bruton said. "I really nnjoy that. lin gives us youngnr guys timn to learn beeausn lw knows our hnads our spinning with all this installnwnt coming in all at once." 
Lnwis, with ninn ynars of nxperinnce as thn dnfnnsivn baeks coaeh with the NFL's Miami Dolphins, has plnnty of knowl1~dge to share with his playnrs. Zbikowski also J'cwls hn has an important roln as one of only a fnw uppnrdass­nwn in tlw SIH~onclary. 
''I'm obligatnd to hnlp those younger guys," Zbikowski said. "Those guys with that lack of experimH~e to try to bring them up and hnlp tlwm as mueh as possibln." 
Counting down thn days to the Sept. 3 snason opnnnr against Pittsburgh since Decnrnher's Insight Bowl loss to Oregon Statn, Zbikowski is set on proving to thn nation that Notre Damn is not the program its n~eord might havn suggested last year. 
"We want to provo it to our­selves," Zbikowski said. "We've put in so mueh work. 
The coaehns have put in  so  
much work. Wn dnserve  to  
win."  

Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


-------c----------.
• I ' • ' • ~ • 
' ..
• 1 ' ••. 
' ' . ' 
' . . . 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, August 26, 2005 
-
with, ND's Own'; Da Natural 
and Comfort Eagle. 
friday august 26th I8pm Joyce Center Fieldhouse 




. , . 
. .. ~ . . . . 





