--------~------­

---------.... 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 23 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER22, 2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Campus prepares for Jenkins inauguration 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
McCartan will prnsent Jenkins tion for the arts and a strong
Two day celebration 
with the Prnsidential medal and religious association. set to inc/ude arts, University Macn. Jenkins said organizers have Jenkins will then address the done a "great job" of organizing 
religion, academics University in front of the main an event so complex and multi­building with 
faceted. · a poignant "To some extent, (organizers(
By KATIE PERRY 
spnech illumi­followed the structure of the 
Assistam News Ediwr 
nating the inauguration of Father Malloy, challenges though we did not have the 
Tho two-day inauguration of and commit­advantage of the DeBartolo Univ1~rsity Pn~sident Father ments of Center for the Performing Arts .John Jenkins bngan today and Notre Dame at that time, obviously a facility will offnr nvnnts that reflect in tho 21st that adds great dimension to Notrn Damn's fundamental foei century. The the University," University -academies, arts and rnligion 17th prcsi-Jenkins spokesperson Matt Storin said. -and provide thn unique and dent said he "The plan combines academic, rarn opportunity for community hopes the Inauguration embod­cultural and spiritual elements nwrnbers to usher in a new ies and honors central missions of Notre Dame -whieh seems lnadnr and a new era. of the University. very appropriate." 
For the first time in 17 years, "I hope it's a time not to cele­the University will celebrate a brate John Jenkins, but to cele­Academics n11w pr11sident with a series of brate Notre Dame," he said. A paneled discussion today inaugural evnnts, including The three-pronged nature of featuring international leaders Friday's climaetie Academic the Inauguration eaters to arid scholars is slated to repre-Procession, in which Board of Notre Dame's pursuit of aea­Trustees Chairman Patrick demie excellence, an apprccia-see JENKINS/page 6 


INALIGURATION EVENTS 
Thursday: 
2:00 -4:QO p.m. Academic Forum 
Joyce Center 
Friday: ;§:qo -.t.:30 p.m. Convocation and Inauguration
···~'" : 

.Joyce Center 
t:45 
-5:30 p.m. Post-inauguration Reception 
Lil>rary Reflecting Pool 
7:00 -~):30 p.m. Inaugural Ball and Fireworks 
South Quad 
Graphic illustration by GRAHAM EBETSCH 

Belles have history behind the plate 
Early Innings By NICOLE ZOOK Women's baseball has a rich 
A~sistant News Editor 
history at Saint Mary's. In fact, 
organizer and coach John Kovach 
"B<L'ieball is the latest and most created tho dub sport in order to popular form of athletics at St. celebrate tho 1 OOth anniversary of Mary's." baseball at the College. 
The words ring just as true now Saint Mary's was onn of' the first as tlwy did whnn tlwy wore writ­women's colleges to form a stu­ten in the monthly Saint Mary's dent baseball team in 1905, short­studnnt nnwspaper, Chinws, in ly after the first documented team May 11Jl5. at Vassar in 1866. By 1919, the 
<:tub b<L'idmll is t.he new1~st li1rm sport was so popular that. not just of athletks on mmpus. It is quick­students but South Bend residents ly gaining popularity and intnrest showed up at Saint Mary's to among athlntes, l~u~ulty and stu­watch tlw games. d•mts -and not just at the An Oetober issue of' Chimes, Collegn. Full-tinw Notre Dame road: "A baseball game was and lloly C.ross women are also played at. S.M.C. Saturday after­allownd to partidpat.n in tho nnw noon and the chnering almost duh sport. rivaled that of the fillltball game at 
But whiln tlw idea of a women's N.D., then in pro!-,rrnss." lnL'iPball tnam may snnrn nnw and S1weral other leading women's intriguing to students today, it is colleges, ineluding Smith and actually an agn-old tradition in Baseball memorabilia from the South Bend Blue Sox, a women's South BPml. see BASEBALL/page 8 team, is displayed in Saint Mary's Cushwa-Leighton Ubrary. · 

President returns to SMCroots 
By KATIE KOHLER News Writer 
Saint Mary's College President Carol Mooney spoke Wndnnsday about her nxperienens this past summer at the 2005 International Session in lloly Cross Spitituality in Ln Mans, Franco from .Junl' 20 to 30. 
ller audimH~e indurled faeulty, SL'iters of tho lloly Cross, Bmu·d of Trusl.l~e mnmbnrs <llld alumni of tho eollegn. 
Mommy W<L'i introdm~nd by c.ur­rent Pmsidnnt of tlw lloly Cross sis­ters, SL'il.l~r Joy O'Grady, who ollim~d 
see MOONEY/page 4 

--------------=-===------==============================-==-::::::-==============-=---=-:-====-==--===== 
STUDENT SENATE 


Group debates tennis court lights 
By MADDIE HANNA As.,ociatc News Editor 
As daylight dwindlnd out­side, the Student. Senate dnbatnd thn possibility of adding rww tnnnis court light­ing-and potPntially nnw ten­nis eourts -at Wedrwsday's mneting. 
"Most tl'nnis courts in parks have lights," said Farley sena­tor Carol llnndrickson, who introdueed a Iotter outlining her proposal. "Why donsn 't Notre Damn'!" 
see SENATE/page 8 


College provides free newspapers 
international news.
By SARAH VOSS Started at Saint M<try's two 
News Writer 
ynars ago, tlw program aims to enhance thn campus 
First year student Lisa learning environment by Anderson found herself feel­providing studnnts with tlw ing isolated and disconnect­opportunity to lnarn morn ed when it came to current about the events of their events in her l'irst weeks at world. Saint Mary's. Every Monday through 
"I felt. so out of toueh with Friday, students have equal the world," said Anderson. access to each of thn~e nnws­But Anderson and other papers -The New York 
students on campus can turn Times, USA Today, and The to The Collegiate Readership South Bend Tribune. Program to keep themselves up to date with national and see READ/page 3 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The vvornan 

question 
An article appeared on the front page of Tuesday's New York Times in which female students at some of the nation's top universities said they were willing to give up their professional careers, either partially or entirely, to stay at 
Megan O'Neil 
home and raise children. 
While women Saint Mary's generally make up Editor half the under­graduate demo­graphic and ambitiously pursue gradu­ate degrees in business and law, the article said, that ratio does not neces­sarily translate into the work force. 
The acceptance of fulfilling the 'stay at home mom' role signals a shift from our mothers' generation in which many women were determined to. have both a full time career and a family. 
What was printed in the paper closely mirrors what I have observed in my three years at school. I listen as my classmates talk enthusiastically about classes, student government, field placement<>, MCATs and the Catholic Church. 
Five minutes later, however, at the same lunch table the phrases "When I get married ... " or "When I have kids ..."or "Work part time ... " come out. 
This is not to say that these two life paths are mutually exclusive or that motherhood debilitates one's ability to engage in stimulating conversation. Capable women around the world are maintaining fulfilling professional careers while raising children. I myself am the product of such circumstances. 
Nevertheless, it does raise serious questions for the female college student of today. I I ere we are paying a fortune to attend outstanding institutions and working our tails oil' to earn good grades. Fast forward 10 years and our expensive diplomas am being used for nothing more than wall decorations? 
Do we really want to sacrifice our years of schooling and future career opportunities to stay at home? 
According to the survey conducted by The Times the answer is 'yes.' Houghly 60 percent of the 138 Yale students interviewed said they planned to scale back or stop working altogether once they become mothers. 
Some might argue that such an atti­tude shows a lack of appreciation for educational and professional opportuni­ties available to women today and leave feminist pioneers turning over in their graves. 
The difl'erence, however, is that those women of my generation who make the decision to be stay at home moms one day are doing so consciously and delib­erately. It is a choice based on child­hood development research and per­sonal preference, not tradition gender roles. They have options that women just two generations earlier didn't have. 
Choosing to remain at home to raise one's children should never be viewed as a waste of an education. Knowledge is valuable in and of itself, even ifit is never used in a "professional" setting. Furthermore, a college educated moth­er knows from experience the impor­tance of having a choice and will make sure her child has the same opportunity to one day make it for herself. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei090 7@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Thursday, September 22, 2005 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE PLACE IN SOUTH BEND AND WHY? 
Maxwell Hand freshman Keough  Jake Scrabowski freshman Keough  Jessica Lau sophomore Lyons  John Paul Slonkosky senior Keough  Dan Zenker senior off-campus  Kathleen Gonderman freshman Pasquerilla West  
"Under the tree  "Under the tree  "Olive Garden  "Rocco's Pizza  "Boat Club ...  "Notre Dame  

in front of in front of because they ... listen to my Walsh Hall so I Walsh Hall so I have free stomach." can be alone can be alone breadsticks and with Jake." with Max." salad." 

MARY KATE MANNIX!The Observer An enormous white tent was erected on campus in front of North Dining Hall this week in preparation for University F'resident Father John Jenkins' inaugural week­end. The University has planned a full schedule of events and will host hundreds of religious and academic leaders to honor the new President. 
OFFBEAT 

Plane makes emergency landing to catch game 
LIMA, Peru -Pilots of a chartered jet carrying 289 Gambian soccer fans faked the need for an emergency landing in Peru so passen­gers could watch their nation's team play a key match, officials said Wednesday. 
The plane, claiming to be low on fuel, landed Tuesday in Peru's northern coast city of Piura, where Gambia played Qatar in the FIFA Under-17 World Championships later that night. 
Emergency crews were scrambled ahead of the Lockhead L1011 Tri-Star's unscheduled landing. It was to have landed in the capital, Lima. 
The fans were allowed to watch the soccer game in Piura, which Gambia won 3­
1. The fans apparently would have been late or missed the game if the flight had first gone to its scheduled destina­tion of Lima, 550 miles to the south. 
Israeli couple fined for public display of affection 
NEW DELHI -India may be the land of the Kamasutra, the ancient trea­tise on sex, but public dis­plays of affection remain strictly taboo in the country's hinterlands, as an Israeli couple found out. 

They were fined 500 Indian rupees ($11) each for embracing and kissing after getting married in a tradi­tional Hindu ceremony in the northwestern Indian town Pushkar, the A<>ian Age new­spaper reported Wednesday. 
The Israeli Embassy in New Delhi confirmed the incident and identified the couple as Alon Orpaz and Tehila Salev, who decided to get married while visiting India. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

...I t( 
(.) 0 




...... HIGH 79 HIGH 70 HIGH 79 LOW 54 LOW 53 LOW 63 

come sail because I grew away. up feeding the ducks by the lakes." 
IN BRIEF 

The academic cornerstone to the inauguration of University President Father John Jenkins, a panel forum titled "Why God? Understanding Heligion and Enacting Fiath in a Plural Workd," will take place today at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center. The event will feature Cardinal Oscar Andres Hodriguez of Honduras as well as several other notable academics and human rights activits. 
Hammes Mowbray Hall, the new building of the ND Security Police and the campus post office, will be dedicated Friday at 9 a.m. by Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
More than 100 visiting priests and bishops will concelebrate the inaugural mass Friday at 1 0 a.m. in The Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Tickets are required for seating. 
Domer Run will take place Saturday at 11 a.m. Hunners can choose between a 6-mile and a 3-mile race. There is also a 2-mile walk. Race day regis­tration and check in is at Legends. 
The classic 1941 film "Citizen Kane" will be shown Saturday at 3 p.m. in Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $6 for facul­ty and $3 for students. 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team faces off against Seton Hall Sunday at 1 
p.m. at the Joyce Center. 

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

(f 
69 

LOW 50 LOW 
46 

Thursday, September 22, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Anderson also said easy aeeess to the paper fits into
Read 
her busy schedule. continued from page 1 The Saint Mary's Student Government Association, 
Tlw papers, which can be which sponsors the program, pieknd up in tlw Noble initiated the program in 2003 I•amily Dining Hall or in the when a trial run revealed main lobby of Ln Mans llall, that RO percent of students arn fnHJ to all Saint Mary's on earn pus found it ed uca­studnnts. This fnHJ access has tional and benef'ieial. The turnml out to be what makes deeision to utilize The New tlw program en tieing, York Times, USA Today and according to junior Sara Jane The South Bend Tribune was llouberg. also evaluated at that time. 
"If the paper  Student body  
wasn't fron, I would probably  "We'd like to offer  viee president Susan Mellduff  
just read it online," llouhnrg said. Hnading a  more papers that students want to read."  expressed the possibility of reevaluating which papers to  
daily  papnr  bring  to  earn­ 
kc1nps studPnts from gntting nntirely wrapped up in  Susan Mcllduff SMC student body vice president  pus. "We'd like to offer more papers that stu­ 
school  and  dents want to  
allows tlwm  to  read," Mellduff  

broaden tlwir outlook, she said. ~~on tin uml. The increasing popularity 
Somn studnnts, such as of the program is evident in Laura Corkn, ustl the papers the fact that all of the papers as aeadnmie tools. are usually gono before noon. 
''I'm a busirwss major, so I A $7,500 annual price tag, likn to knep up with tlw news hownver, moans it will proba­and slay informed," Corke bly be somo time before the said. program can include more 
Other studnnts usn the publications, Mcllduf'f said. paper purely for rnereational Due to the success of the purposns. Sophornorn Brooke program. SGA plans to con­Trudeau said she "reads the tinue it indefinitely. horoscopPS every day." "The program has been 
Whatnver the reason for morn successful than reading the papnr, students planned," said McllduiT, and agnHHI that thn program is a it gives students "something great assnt to tlw school. to do while passing the time." 
"I only havtl a few minutes to catch up with the world. IHnadingl the paper is a great Contact Sarah Voss at way to do it," llouberg said. svossO1 @saintmarys.edu 
#6 I'IIIMEN's S11t:t:EB 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 23 VS. CINCINNATI Ma~ng 5:00 @ALUMNI fiELD
Sa<"""'"""' 




World Trade Center engineer speaks 
achieve goals. be used, despite the existence By BRIDGET KEATING At age 32 and with his tallest of new materials. lit\ stn\SSt\s 
News Writer project at 22 stories, Robertson "performance over strength." 
became the lead struetur<tl lie also explainnd bracing 
Students and faculty filled engineer for the World Trade practices that provide for air the auditorium of Bond llall Center, whose towers roached flow, aerodynamics, damping Wednesday for a lecture by 110 stories eaeh. and are economical. Leslie Robertson, the lead He describes them as "There is no limit to how structural engineer for the "strong, robust, redundant and high you can build a building if World Trade Center Towers light." He explained that the you an1 optimizing the shape," and president and founder of towers were designed to resist Robertson said. the engineering firm Leslie E. the accidental impact of a Sophomore engineering stu­Hobertson Associates. The Boeing 707. The irnpacts of the dent Katelyn Mulvaney was School of Architecture and Boeing 767s, commandeered astounded by the sizn of the College of Engineering co­by the terrorists on Sept. 11, buildings Hobnrtson detailed. sponsored the event. 2001, even though larger and "It is remarkable that struc­
Robertson, a current flying much faster than 707s, tures at heights of over orw Princeton professor, captivated were unable to bring down tho mile can be built," Mulvaney the audiencfl with information towers. said. "Being a student from about innovations in structural It was the ensuing fire fueled Chicago who is intnrnstnd in engineering, his current proj­by thousands of gallons of jot structural engirwering, I have ects and the future of the fuel that was too much for the always rnvnnHI the Sears industry. fire-resistive systems, he Tower. I couldn't believe how 
Michael Lykoudis, Dean of explained. small the Sears Townr looked the School of Architecture, Construetion of tho world's in comparison to what was emphasized the importance of tallest buildings is concentrat­shown today." cooperation with the College of' ed in Asia and the Middln East, Discussing the tins bntwnnn Engineering. Robertson said, and his cur­science and nnginnnring, 
"This year's lecture series, rent projects include a part­Robertson elnarly dnlinnated, 'Architecture and its Allied nership with l.M. Pei on the saying, "Seinnee is discovnry. Disciplines,' brings in experts Museum for Islamic Art in Engineering is design." from all l'inlds, sueh as Doha, Qatar and the Macao lie describes himsnlf not as painters, medical profession­Science Center in Macao, someonn who just comns up als, as we have today, engi­China. lie is also working with with ideas, but someonn who neers," Lykoudis said. Kohn Pedersen Fox on the carries them out and is "com­
lie pointed out that it is vital Shanghai World Financial pletely involved developing of for "architecture students to Center. projects." While demonstrating recognize the collaborative Robertson describns Pei, one that structural engineering is a nature of the profession." of the most successful archi­"serious businnss," Hobertson 
The reeipient of' numerous tects of the 20th Century, as an left a light messagn with the prestigious industry awards, "old and dear friend" and audience, saying individuals including being named shared amusing anecdotes are capable of creating mas­Engineering News Record's about their friendship. sively tall structures, "But if it "125 People of the Past 125 Responding to an inquiry is not fun to live or work in, it Years," Hobertson emphasized about the future of materials the importance of team work used, Robertson said that steel Contact Bridget Keating at among talented individuals to and concrete will continue to bkeating@nd.edu 

#11 JIIII.I.EYBifl.l. 
SUNDAY, SEPT. 25 vs. SnoN HAu 1:00 @JOYCE IRENA 
FREE ADMISSION TO All EVENTS FOR NO, SMC, AND HCC STUDENTS 


# IB .EI'S Slt:CEI 
fiRST 5oo f•• 1u1~ ·~ 
EtRST ~' INS Will RECIEVE
1r1

ASoccER ScHEDULE Trlatn ll ASo CER SHoE BAG 115 



page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 22, 2005 
College seminar proves popular 
By LUISA CABRERA 
News Writer 
Although senior Jocelyn Burum felt that the small size of her Core class allowed her to get to know other people, she found major differences between vary­ing sections of the same required Arts and Letters class unfair. 
Arts and Letters professors agreed the Core program was problematic and replaced it with a required one-semester College Seminar in 2004. 
Professors felt that the year­long Core course, which Arts and Letters students were required to take during their sophomore year, was much too generalized and that students were greatly dissatisfied with how the course was run. 
"In the past 25 years, the fac­ulty has changed greatly, and people are far too specialized for a broad course like Core," said George Howard, former director of both the College Seminar and Core program. "Faculty mem­bers are now able to pick their specialized areas. Each instruc­tor chooses a topic that she or he can handle, in opposition to the Core course, where the topics were much too general." 
The improved College Seminar is very similar to Core in the sense that it encompasses so many aspects of the Arts and Letters curriculum. However, it allows the professors to choose topics that interest them and relieves them of the pressure of teaching a yearlong course. 
Professor Wendy Arons, who teaches the College Seminar "Work, Consumption, and Culture," said while she enjoys developing close relationships over a full year with students, the restructuring of the course was a good decision. 
She expressed that Core was not achieving the goals that orig­inally been set and that the changes were necessary in order for the program to be successful. 

"Students and teachers are much more enthusiastic about the advantages of the College Seminar," said Arons. "Instructors greatly benefit from no longer having a fixed syl­labus, even though the topics are big stretches, which carries over from Core. It's now fun because it is still interdisciplinary, but with topics that I am interested in and that I'm jazzed about." 
Arons also spoke of the fact that though she is a theater pro­fessor, her College Seminar syl­labus contained a great deal of anthropology and economics. The idea behind the course lay­out is that the faculty is able to stretch out beyond disciplinary boundaries of even their own fields. As Arons put it, the instructors are learning side-by­side with the students. 
The College Seminar contains elements of all the Arts and Letters fields, such as humani­ties, social science and fine and performing arts, said the direc­tor of College Seminar, Patrick Gaffney. 
Every syllabus must contain each of these elements, allowing the students to experience and work with areas beyond their own majors. 
"The college seminar is built on a great idea, where each pro­fessor decides on an overarching subject -such as war, peace or tragedy -and has all the ele­ments of the Arts and Letters echo throughout all of the top­ics," said Gaffney, who is cur­rently teaching a College Seminar as well. 
"The College Seminar helps develop leadership skills and encourages students to take an imaginative initiative, giving stu­dents the confidence to engage themselves intellectually with others." 
Students currently enrolled in the College Seminar are proving Gaffney right and agree that the improved structure is beneficial to expanding their education. 
Sophomore Ale Breuer who is currently enrolled in romance language and literature Professor Patrick Martin's class, "On Becoming Human," is one of those students.. 
"I think that the purpose of the college seminar is to provide a more liberal education for the students," Breuer said. "A lot of students are so focused on their major that things such as art, lit­erature and philosophy are for­gotten, and this program encom­passes all of these things. It helps me to think outside the box and gives a variet) to our education." 
Breuer said that she loved her seminar and thought that it was very successful in providing a motivating and interesting inter­disciplinary course. 
The College Seminar is not only focused on the various cur­riculua of Arts and Letters, but also on the importance of the oral-intensive nature of the class, with professors grading students based on oral assign­ment, class participation and oral exams. 
Katie McArdle, a sophomore political science major, said the College Seminar was preparing her for the future. 
"I think it gives students much better speaking, writing and lis­tening skills,'' said McArdle. "It allows us to think on our feet because the ':ourse is based on articulating ourselves better. I think that it will help us seem more professional and better spoken when we are in the pro­fessional world." 
Contact Luisa Cabrera at lcabrera@nd.o!du 

WVFI PRESENTS 
***'~* 

"CYHSY is at the best point in the lifecycle of a band: un-styled, simply produced a'ld deserving of the hype for what is--quite possibly --a nearly perfect album. "-billboard.com 
"New York's newest underground party pack Clap Your Hands Say Yeah is a band teetering on the fence of obscurity and stardom ... " -tinymixtapes.com 
"Brooklyn's Clap Your Hands Say Yeah are here to r~est their collec­tive arms around your shoulders and lead you back across the indie pop threshold into a rare corner of sweet guitar rock that hums with fresh originality." -msnbc.com 


the Brothers of the Holy Cross, aer.ording to Mooney, was revolu­
Mooney 

tionary in that it included a full continued from page 1 range of secular knowledge and 
education of the heart. Mooney kind words on Mooney's achieve­described it as "having nothing to ments at Saint Mary's since her fear from knowledge." inaugurationlastyear. "It was not the history that so 
O'Grady highlighted her atten­much touched me [here], but the tion to higher education, Catholic spirituality," Mooney said. vision, leadership and administra­Furthermore, she referenced the tive qualities and her dedication to hospitality of the Holy Cross con­her work and her community. gregation by relating it to her own 
"[Mooney] has created a first life. class academic institution with "I have worked with branches of moral depth," O'Grady said. Holy Cross in one way or another 
O'Grady also laid the foundation for twenty-five years, and I have of the presentation by explaining always fi~lt like I was walking out­the preface of such the trip and its side of a circle of intimacy," members. She Mooney said. described it as, "a "But after these 
"It was not the history 
hands-on experi­ten days, I felt as ence of our her­that so much touched though the cir­
itage and min­me {here], but the cle has been 
istries that initiat­extended to me;
spirituality. " 
ed in Le Mans, rather, I was France." invited inside." Mooney and Carol Mooney On the same her husband, SMC president note, Mooney 
George Efta, were among the six lay participants on the trip to Le Mans along which included forty-two Holy Cross si<;ters, broth­ers and priests. 
Several countries were also rep­resented in this group including the United States, Canada, France, Bangladesh, Ghana and Haiti. 
Mooney's presentation included pictures of her trip and back­ground history of the Holy Cross order and its evolution from Le Mans, France to South Bend, Ind. She also linked the earliest vision­aries of the order such as Father Dujarie and Father Basil Moreau to their successors of Father Edward Sarin and Sister Angela Gillespie. 

The educational philosophy of said that the ten 
days she spent in France has done more than "twenty-five years of walking around the edge [of the circle] had not done." 
To conclude the presentation, Mooney opened the floor for ques­tions from the audience. Her final remarks illustrated the point that O'Grady made in her introduction, referring to her dedication to Saint Mary's. 
"When I came here a little over one year ago, I realized that I had the responsibility to look forward,'' Mooney said, "but not leave behind what has been given to 
us." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohlerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

JIMMY JOHN'S 








DELIVERY DRIVERS 
AREN'T STRANGERS. 
THEY'RE JUST 

FRIENDS 

YOU HAVEN'T MET YET. 
SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. -574.277.8500 
MISHAWAKA 5343 N. MAIN ST. -574.968.4600 

WE I ,,--y JOif.-"'.$'·· "IMMY 
.lmu /9'3
I I 
.JOHNS 
o1V0•LD·soREAT<••,

D(llv(R. COM
0 Ultl'lf£T SANDWlcl\'t • 
®2005 JIMMY JOHN'S FRlNCHISE. INC. 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 22, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVERS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
State Department criticizes Abbas 
WASIIINC;T<>N Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas drnw poor grades on Capitol II ill for his handling of terror groups. 
At a llouse hearing Wednesday, Assistant Secretary of State David Wekh said Abbas had taknn some steps to assert control of security hut "overall Palestinian Authority I>Prforrnanee to date has been fhr from satis­factory." 
"The PA must move quickly to nstablish order and takn steps to dismantle thn infra­strw:turn of terror," Weleh testified. 
Critieizing Israel as well, the State l>npartnwnt oflidal said. Israel must stop set­tlenwnt ~~xpansion on tlw West Bank and dis­mantle unauthorizml outposts thern. 
Indian leader defends coca growers 
I A PAZ, Bolivia -Indian loader Evo Morales said lw would 1'1\jnct Wm;hington's policy of erad­icating much of Bolivia's mea erop if lw is elect­lid prnsidnnt and plndgnd he would work to lngalim the loaf used to mak1~ eoeainn. 
Morales, a front-runner in this Andean nation's llnc. 4 election, is an Aymara Indian who IPd protnsts that helped oust President ( :arlos M1~sa in June and led to th1~ mlling of the l>nemn her vote. 
lin rose to power 1 0 ynars ago <L<; the leader of tlw roea growPrs of tlw C:haparn rogion, whern U.S.-hackPd nradication efli1rL<; are fi1cused. 
During a 1:ampaign stop in the eity of Suern latn Tw~sday, Morales said the U.S. government's polkins have tho sole objm:tivn of "eliminating coea" and "tornwnting the eocaleros," thn peo­ple who grow !'oca. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Drunk teen kills three, dies in crash 
EI.KIIOHN CITY. Ky. -The tiny mountain town wlwrn a high sdwol honor student, sent honw from school fi1r being intoxicated, killed thn~e fiunily nwmbnrs and thnn died in a high­way crash alrnady dons random student drug testing and h<L<; a drug education program. 
But Pike County School Superintendnnt Frank W1dr.h said Wl•drwsday that the string of deaths Tw~sday afternoon show it might not bn m10ugh. 
Mattlww llarkney, 17, W<L<; under tlw influence of drugs wlwn he was sent home from school that morning, ritnd fin· intoxkation and mle<L<>ed to his parnnL<;' custody, m:1:ording to stato polien. 
Tho tPnn told school oflkials hn had taken five tahJPtS of tJw prescription painkiller tramadoJ IICI.. A friond lw spoke to later that day said he told lwr lw also W<L<; caught with marijuana. 
But KnntlH:ky State Polin~ Lt. Bobby Johnson. who is owrseeing tlw invnstigation, stopped short of saying drugs mused the violmH:e. 

Grand jury clears Penn. archdiocese 
PIIII.ADI·:LPIIIA-A grand jury spent llmH~ yoars slogging through tens of thou­sands of rilos from tlw Archdiocese of Philadt-lphia and intPrviewing downs of witnesses to unParth any snernts the I{ o 111 a n Ca t h o Ii1: C h u r e h w as k e o p i n g about sexually ahusivn priosts in tlw city. 
Tlw nnd result of the longest known inquiry of its kind'! 
No drarges, but a cond1~m nation of local churc:h loaders -including two 1:ardinals -and an equally aggrnssive defense from tho church. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Fire kills four children, two adults 
CAHY -Fin~ gutted a small house early Wedrwsday, killing f(nrr childrnn and two adults, <L<; intense hnat drove baek rPiatives and nnigh­hors who triml to lm~ak windows to get them out, authoritins said. 
Two adults ·and thwe children ages I to 12 worn pronounend dnad of burns and smoke inhalation shortly after thn blaze. An 11-year-old hoy dind Wednnsday afllm10on at a hospital. 
A 7-yoar-old boy and an ad u It female remairwd hospitalizml. 
Neighbor Miduwl Dukes said he ran across thn stroet to the burning housn after hoaring a woman semaming about 3 a.m. · 

Hurricane Rita gains strength 
165-mph winds cause authorities to evacuate 1.3 million peoplefrom Texas, Louisiana 
Associated Press 
GALVESTON, Texas ­Gaining strength with fright­ening speed, Hurricane Hita swirli·ld toward the Gulf Co<L<;t a Category 5, 165-mph mon­ster Wednesday as more than 
1.3 million people in Toxas and Louisiana were sent packing on orders from authorities who learned a bit­ter lesson from Katrina. 
"It's scary. It's really scary," Shalonda Dunn said as she and her 5-and 9-year-old daughters waited to board a bus arranged by emergency authorities in Galveston. ''I'm glad we've got the opportuni­ty to leave.... You nnver know what can happen." 
With Hita projected to hit Texas by Saturday, Gov. !Uek Perry urged residents along the statn ~s entire coast to begin evacuating. And New Orlnans braced J(>r thn possi­bility that the storm could swamp the misery-stricken dty all ovnr again. 
Galveston, low-lying parts of Corpus Christi and llouston, and mostly emptied­out New Orleans were under mandatory evacuation orders as Rita sideswiped Um Florida Keys and began drawing energy with terrifying oflidnn­ey from the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Between 2 
a.m. and 4 p.m., it wnnt from a 115-mph Category 2 to a 165-mph Category 5. 

Fornc<L<>tnrs said Hila could by. An Army general in Tex<L<; eould prove dev<L<>tating to the Wednesday. In nnighborhoods be the most intense hurricane was told to be ready to fractured levees pnitecting throughout the island dty, tlw on record ever to hit Texas, assume control of a military New Orleans. fi~w people Jell wer1~ p<u:king and easily one of the most tm;k three in Rita's wake. In the Galveston-Jiouston­the I<L<;t of their valuahl!~s and pownrful nvor to plow into the "We hope and pray that Corpus Christi an~a. about 1.3 getting ready to lwad north. 
U.S. mainland. Category 5 is llurrieane Hita will not be a million people worn under llelicoptnrs, ambulances the highest on the scale, and dnv<L<;tating storm, but we got orders to get out, in addition and buses wern used to ovac­only throe Category 5 hurri­to be ready for the worst," to 20,000 or more along with uatn 200 patients from canes are known to haw~ hit Presidnnt Bush said in the Louisiana eoast. Spedal Galvoston's only hospital: And the U.S. mainland-most W<L<>hington. attention was given to hospi­at thn 1\dgowater lktinmwnt recently, Andrew, which By late afternoon, Hita W<L'> tals and nursing homes, throe Community, a six-story build­smashed South Florida in eentered more than 700 miles wonks aftor scorns of sick and ing noar the eity's seawall, 1992. southeast of Corpus Christi. elderly pationts in the New 200 elderly residnnts wen~ 
Government ollidals eager Forecasters predicted it Orleans area drowrwd in not givnn a choieo. to show they had loarned would come <L<>hore along tho Katrina's floodwaters or died "They either go with a fiuni­their lessons from the slug­central Texas coast bntwnen in the stifling heat while wait­ly mmnber or they go with us, gish rnsponse to Katrina snnt Galveston and Corpus Christi. ing to be rnscued. but this building is not safe in hundrnds of buses to evae­But with its breathtaking Military pnrsonnol in South sitting on t.he seawall with a uato the poor. moved out hos­size -tropical storm-force Texas started moving north, major hurricarw r.oming," pital and nursing home winds extending 350 miles too. Schools, businesses and said David II<L<;tin).,rs, exnrutivn patients, dispatched truck­across -practically the universities wnre also shut director. "I have had sewral loads of water, iee and roady­1mtiro western end of the U.S. down. say, 'I don't want. t.o go,' and I made meals, and put rescue Gulf Coast was in peril, and Galveston was a virtual said, 'I'm sorry. you'rn and medical teams on stand-even a slight rightward turn ghost town by mid-afternoon going."' 

MEXICO 

Crash kills nine 'in the line of duty' 
Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY -A helicopter carry­ing the Cabinet minister in chargn of Mexico's federal police and eight others crashed in eloud-shroudod mountains outside Moxico City on Wednesday, killing everyone on board, President Vicente Fox said. 
The burnod wreckage of the Bdl heli­copter was found in a mountainous, wooded area about 20 miles outside Mexko City several hours after it was reportod missing. 
The aircraft was carrying Public 
Safety Secretary Ramon Martin Huerta -a trusted Fox ally -Federal Preventive Police Chief Tomas Valencia, five other passengers and a erew of two. 
It had taken ofT from a military base in Mexico City and was headed to a cer­emony at the maximum-security La Palma prison, 35 miles west of Mexico City, when it was crashed in mountains surrounded by densn douds. 
"They all died in the line of duty," Fox said in a televised address, his voice cracking with emotion. "They arc heroes ... I have lost not just a co-work­er, but a dose friend, Hamon." 
Fox oflered no explanation of why the helicopter crashed. But Mario Martinez, a pilot who was following in another helicopter, told local media that Huerta's craft had disappearnd into a dense bank of douds and was lost to view. 
Mexican media had spnculatml <L<; to whether the hnlicopter's disapp1mrance was rnlated to Mexico's pownrful dru!( traflkking groups. 
"We am probably looking at an aed­dent," Interior Seaetary Carlos Ab<L<>eal told reporters before the lwlieoptnr's wreckagn was discovered. 
-----~--­

page 6 The Obserwr + NEWS Thursday, September 22, 2005 
Rauf, founder of the American Performances are planned in Religion "It is a rare opportunity to Society for Muslim six campus venues throughout A special Mass to be held 10 participate in an event of this
Jenkins 

Advancement; Professor Naomi the evening and will include live a.m. Friday at the Basilica of nature at Notre Dame, so it 
continued from page 1  Chazan, a former member of Israel's parliament; and former  performances of a variety of musical genres including classi­ the Sacred Heart will fulfill the Inauguration's ecclesiastical  enhances [the students'] overall experience here," Storin said.  
sent the academic realm of life  Missouri  Senator  John  cal, jazz and folk by student  component and serve as a sym­ "The Forum provides an oppor­ 
at Notre Dame. Hosted by renowned NBC news anchor  Danforth, who served as U.S. Ambassador to  groups as well as famed artists. Concert pianist  bol of Notre Dame's relationship with the Catholic Church.  tunity to hear world-class lead­ers, the musical program is  
Tom Brokaw, the forum "Why  the  United  Leon Fleisher,  More than 10 priests and vis­ diverse and first-rate, and - 
God? Understanding Religion  Nations  in  "I would like Notre  Grammy  iting bishops, cardinals and  most importantly  - Father  
and Enacting Faith in a Plural World" will assemble panelists to discuss the daunting task of  2004. The Inau­guration's offi­ Dame ... to be the world center for reflec­ Award-winning jazz group the Ramsey Lewis  other religious leaders will be in attendance to pray for the University and its newest presi­ Jenkins will be spelling out his vision for Notre Dame in his address that will have great  
cultivating peace in  a world  cial  Web  site  tion on these kinds of  Trio  and  the  dent. The University's name­ import for both students, alumni  
torn by religious conflict. Jenkins said the forum  - said the discus­sion­which  issues.  Irish folk band Bohola are  sake-Our Lady-will be hon­ored in the serv­ and friends of Notre Dame." At the culmina­ 
organized around religious  will be held at 2  among  the  ice, which will  tion of the cere­ 
diversity, religious conflict and how religions can live together in peace for the good of human­ity ­has a greater significance than simply enlightening mem­bers of the University communi­ p.m. this after­Father John Jenkins evenings most noon at the prominent per­University president Joyce Center formers. Arena -will Fleisher will initiate a new JOlll Notre annual event whose purpose is Dame choral groups for a 9  feature readings from the Votive Mass of Mary, Seat of Wisdom. Tickets for the Inaugural Mass  "We've got a great party planned on Friday ... Just enjoy yourselves.,,  monies, an Inaugural Ball will be held at 7 p.m. Friday on South Quad. The festivities will  
ty on global issues. "I would like Notre Dame, in our age, to be the world center  to garner chief world figures for a dialogue to help students pre­pare for their entry into the  p.m. concert at Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, which  were alloeated by invite-only, however addi­ Father John Jenkins University president  feature an appearance by the newly inau­ 
for reflection on these kinds of  professional, post-collegiate  will be concurrent with Bohola's  tional  seating  gurated  presi­ 
issues," he said. "We're the  world.  performance in Washington  will be available  dent, as well as  
major university in this country  Hall. The Ramsey Lewis Trio  in Washington Hall, where the  live music and a fireworks show.  
that has a religious character  The Arts  will perform at 8 p.m. in the  service will be televised live  "We've  got  a  great party  
[and] is among the top 20 uni­ Inauguration organizers said  Decio Mainstage Theater.  and Communion will be distrib­ planned on Friday, we've got  
versities or so. And we can take  tonight's simultaneous events  In addition to the evening's  uted.  several events," Jenkins said.  
that on."  showcasing the University's flair  musical entertainment, the film  Storin said the University  "Just enjoy yourselves [and  
Panelists  include  Father  for the arts comprise "the most  "Babette's Feast" -a personal  strongly encourages student  have] good, healthy fun."  
Oscar  Cardinal  Hodriguez,  comprehensive presentation of  favorite of Jenkins  - will be  attendance to the Inauguration's  
Archbishop of Tegucigalpa, Honduras; Imam Feisal Abdul  performance in Notre Dame's history."  screened in Browning Cinema at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m.  special events planned for today and Friday.  Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu  


SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT 
BOOKMAKER'S PUB WILL HAVE A PRIVATE PARTY THURSDAY, SEPT. .22 F()R NOTRE PAME, ST. MARYS AND HC)LY CROSS STUDENTS 
ONLY STUDENTS; WITH STUDENT ID WILL BE )\OMITTED!!! 
APPETITE FOR DESTRUCTION GUNS N ROSE.S TRIBUTE BAND THIS FRID'A Y AT 1OPM 

PENNY NIGHT 
NOR~MALLY 
$10.00 COVER 
®~flm1~ r!!iufJ~ f!avtg~ f!©~ $!2~®® ©ffff 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Thursday, September 22, 200) 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
-l 03.49

Jones £ 10,378.03 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,107 120 ·.~ 2,550,493,850 

AMfX 1,731.43 +1.99 NASDAQ 2_,106.64 -24.69 NYSE 7.515.02 -47.82 S&PSOO 1,210.20 -11.14 NIKK£l(Tol<yo) 13. I 96.57 0.00 FTSf IOO(London)S.369.70 -46.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) -1.10 -0.43 38.50 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.35 -0.35 25.49 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.67 -0.12 17.85 SIRIUS SATELUTE R(SIRI) -1.35 -0.09 6.59 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.08 +0.02 24.50 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.08 -0.49 44.70 10-YEAR NOTE -1.30 -0.55 41.88 5-YEARNOTE -1.06 -0.43 40.07 3-MONTH BILL -5.19 -1.83 33.42 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.60 66.80 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.60 472.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.38 83.35 
fxcha Rates 

YEN 111.3050 EURO 0.8187 POUND 0.5526 CANADIAN$ 1.1676 
IN BRIEF 
National Archives found in trash 
WASHINGTON -FedP.ral oflkials are inves­tigating how National Arehives documents of interest to Indians suing the Interior Department were found discarded in a trash bin and a wastebasket. 
The diseov11ry camP to light on Sept. 1, when Arehives stan· noticed federal records in one of the trash bins behind the National Archives Building near the Capitol. They notified the Arehives' inspnetor general, Paul Brachfeld, whose stan· rneovered the doeuments. 
Tlwy found at least a portion of the docu­ments WP.re Bureau of Indian Afl'airs records dating to the 1950s, aeeording to Jason Baron of tlw Arehivns' Olliee of General Counsel, in a letter last week to an Interior Department ofli­dal. 
Braehfeld's oflicp, began investigating, and "what appnar to be Indian records were dis­eovered in a waste basket in the stack areas at Main Arehives," Baron wrote. Taken together, the two dumping ineidents "may be intentional aets aimed at unlawfully removing or dispos­ing of permanent records from the Interior Department." he wrote. 
Union barred from investigation 
CIIICA(;()-Federal transportation officials on Wednesday barred a locomotive workers' union from the investigation of last weekend's deadly commuter train derailment. saying a union ofTicial violatP.CI rules by speaking to reporters about the ease. 
The union had been allowed to observe the National Transportation Safety Board's inves­tigation of Saturday's derailment that killed two passengers and injured more than SO, but its ropresontative was sent home Wednesday, NTSB spokeswoman Lauren Poduzzi said. 
"When you partieipate as a party in an NTSB investigation, tho rules aro that only the NTSB rnloasns any information," Peduzzi said. 
Hiek Hadok. a vk1~ president of the Brotlwrhood of l.oeornotive Engineers and Trainmon, told reporters Tuesday that tho MPtra train engineer has told investigators ho tHWPr was allwtod to switch tracks, so he trav­olml through a crossover point near the 70 mph spend limit. 
CHINA 

United States pushes change 
Administration encourages China to switch from communism to democracy 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The Bush administration urged China on Wednesday to bogin a transition to demoeraey, eontending the existing one-party system "is simply not sustainable." 
The State Department's No. 2 of'fkial also warned about possible economic adion by Washington unless the U.S. trade deficit with Beijing shrinks. 
In a single spP.ech, Deputy Secretary of State Hobert Zoelliek assembled all elements -negative and po!)itive -of the u.s.­China relationship. U.S. officials say it is the most complex of any in the world. 

Until now. the adminis­tration has focused its pro­democracy message on the Islamic world. Zoelliek's spneeh was the most explicit call to dato for a transition in China, where the Communist Party will mark the anniversary of its China, .Japan, North rather than opening "Moreover, a mereantilist 56th year in power next Korea, Hussia, South them." strategy leads to partner­week. Korea and the U.S. The U.S. trade deficit ships with rngimns that 
"Closed politics cannot On China's defense poli­with China set a record of hurt China's reputation be a permanent featun~ of cy, a major sore point with $162 billion last year, the and lead othnrs to question Chinese society. It is simply Washington, Zoellick said biggest imbalance ever its intentions." not sustainable," Zoellick Chinese authorities have with a single country. This Elaborating on China's· said in a speech to the not adequately explained year's gap is running 30 political system, Zoelliek National Committee on the purpose of their "rapid percent above the 2004 said Communist Party rule United States-China military modernization" pace, in China has not been able Relations in New York. China could ease anxi­Zoellick also took aim at to cope with the challenges 
Zoellick said China eties about its intentions, "the rampant theft" in that he said beset the "needs a political transi­he said, by openly dis­China of American movies, country. tion to make its govern­cussing "its defense spend­computer software and Pressure is building for ment responsible and ing, intentions, doctrine, other products. reform, he said, citing a accountable to its people." and military exercises." These are activities that number of examples: 
He did praise the "con­On trade, Zoellick said "a responsible major glob­+China has one umbrella structive" role China has China cannot take its al player shouldn't toler­labor union, but waves of played in shepherding aeeess to the U.S. market ate," Zoellick said. strikes. international talks on for granted. He said that in China's +A party that came to nuelear disarmament in "Protectionist pressures drive to fuel its growing power as a movement of North Korea. are growing," he said. economy, Beijing is acting peasants now confronts 
On Monday, the six par­"China has been more as if it can somehow "lock violent rural protests, ticipating nations reached open than many develop­up" energy supplies espeeially against corrup­agreement on a statement ing countries, but there around the world. tion. of principles that will are increasing signs of "This is not a sensible +A government with mas­guide the discussions. The mercantilism, with policies path to achieving energy sive police powers eannot countries involved are that seek to direct markets security," he said. control spreading crime. 




Hurricane tax relief bill approved 
Associated Press WASHINGTON -Worried about sur­viving yet another powerful hurricane, victims of Katrina's winds and floods are about to get some tax help to recover from the first one. Congress passed $6.1 billion in tax breaks Wednesday to help families reeover and to encourage Gulf Coast businesses to reopen their doors, or at least keep employees on the payroll. The bill went to President Bush after a 422-0 House vote and a Senate voice vote. Most of the tax help is direetnd spncifi­eally at those hit by llurrieane Katrina and would not necessarily apply in other 
regions damaged by hurricanes before the end of the storm season. As the I louse voted, llurrieann Hita was bear­
ing down on the Gulf eoast west of Katrina's landfall. 
"This aid comes at exactly the right time to help victims of Hurricane Katrina as they rebuild their lives," said Treasury Secretary John Snow. 
Rep. Jim McCrery, R-La., said tax writers aimed most of their assistance at individuals and donors. The tax breaks for businesses mean "those businesses, we hope, will be employing and paying residents of the affected area," he said. 
Congress intends to follow the imme­diate aid with a broader package of tax breaks to eneourage rebuilding, particu­larly in New Orleans. President Bush proposed creating a Gulf Opportunity Zone with about $2 billion in spedal tax breaks eneouraging businesses to build or nxpand in the region. 
Congress first responded to the hurri­cane's devastating blow by approving more than $62 billion for reeovery and rescue. The price tag, expected to increase, has caused wrangling within the GOP over whether to cut govern­ment spending elsewhere to defray Katrina's eosts. 
Speaker Dennis Ila..c;;tert, H-111., rPjnet­ed calls to delay a Medicare prescription drug benefit or rescind rnenntly pm;sed "pork barrel" highway projeets, but a band of almost two dozen eonservativns announced proposals to take both steps. 
"We do not have to raise taxes" to finance the recovery from Katrina, said Hnp. .Jeb llensarling, B-Texas. "We do not have to pass debt onto our ehil­dnm." 
The hrroup of I louse mns11rvatiw stal­warts aeknnwlndgnd that they had no agrnenwnt among themselves on a more than $!i00 billion roster of ideas, many of whkh -sueh as wtting public television subsidies -have been resoundingly r1~jnetnd. 


Thursday, September 22, 2005 
page 8 The Observa + NEWS 
Share your space, but live on your own. 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
The letter, which was sent back to the Residence Life committee for revision, said the University "does not pro­vide adequate facilities and opportunities for recreational play." 
The problem, Hendrickson said, is that the tennis teams usually practice in the after­noon, making it difficult for other students to make use of the courts during daylight hours. 

"These [proposed] lights would be equipped with timers -energy efficient and practi­cal," the letter read. "They would dramatically increase available court time and accommodate student sched­ules." 
Although Notre Dame has indoor courts. Hendrickson said the $3 cost to play, along with the requirement of wear­ing "special shoes," means another solution is necessary. 
The letter also proposed "additional recreational tennis court facilities on the west end of campus near existing bas­ketball and volleyball courts." 
Hendrickson asked senators for input before her meeting with Assistant Athletics Director for Facilities Michael Danch to discuss the plans. 
Keough senator Rob Lindley asked Hendrickson exactly where the proposed new ten­nis courts would be built. 
"I need to talk to [Danchl about the Master Plan of the University ... what they're tearing down, what they're adding," Hendrickson said. 
O'Neill senator Steve Tortorello said while he thought adding new courts was a "great cause," he believed it should be kept sep­arate from the issue of installing lighting. 
The issue of funding also 

needs to be considered, Pasquerilla West senator Christina Lee said. 
"I know at some public parks, it costs $2 to play half an hour," Lee said. "And then to build two additional courts is a whole new ball game." 
The Residence Life commit­tee will revise the letter in order to fix grammatical issues and redefine the group's goals. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Baseball 
continued from page 1 
Wellesley, formed teams that were just as popular. Younger girls began to play baseball after a "Blondes and Brunettes" team, the first to be paid to play the sport in 187 5, began "Bloomer Girls" ball clubs across the United States. By the 1930's, baseball for women of all ages had spread nationwide. 
It wasn't until 1942, after most of the country's young, able men were drafted into WWII, that a major league was formed for women in baseball. 
Women who tried out and made a major league team were sent through charm school and given a strict set of beauty guidelines, which instructed them to "be at all times presentable and attractive, whether on the playing field or at leisure" and gave tips on proper lipstick application -since, of course, they would be wearing it while they played. 
Women in the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League (AAGPBL) were paid anywhere from $45 to $85 dollars a week to play on minor and even two major baseball fields in the Midwest. The league began play on May 30, 1943 with a game between South Bend's own team, the Blue Sox, and the Rockford Peaches. 
Memorabilia from this game and other pieces of South Bend Blue Sox history are currently on display in the Cushwa-Leighton Library, along with autographed baseball cards, gloves, programs and photographs from other AAGPBL teams such as the Kenosha Comets and Peoria Redwings. 

"There's no crying in baseball" 
Another interesting piece of memorabilia on display is a Racine Belles uniform worn in the 1992 film "A League of Their Own," starring Geena Davis and Tom Hanks. The movie, which chronicled the AAGPBL from its inception in 1942 to its conclusion in 1954 and its official recognition by the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Nov. 1988, led to an increased interest in the sport of women's baseball. 
Now, women in 19 states can play the sport in leagues. 
Beginning in 1996, South Bend again formed a team -first in the shape of the South Bend Belles, a Ladies Professional Baseball League team that several Saint Mary's Belles played for, and then under the rekindled name of the South Bend Blue Sox in the Great Lakes Women's Baseball League. The team helped to expand the league in 1997, when USA Baseball, Inc. -the group that selects the Olympic baseball team -provided them with a grant to start their own Invitational Tourney. 
South Bend, the last original team affiliated with the league, also contributed players to the first ever National Women's Baseball Team selected by USA Baseball in 2004. 
Kovach invited interested women to contact him and join the team, to become a part of Saint Mary's history. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 


Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 

Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Cojnfidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 




South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
w·omen's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


All furmshings pictured are from Wai·Mart 

WAL*MART" 
Get everything for your dorm room at Walmart.com and still afford tuition. ALWAYS LOW PRICES. 
~· 
Walmart.com 

Thursday, Seprember 22, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


THE ClBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, September 22, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

About faces 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Megan O'Neil Bobby Griffin Joe Piarulli Ryan Kiefer 

Alicia Conley Anna Fricano Viewpoint Scene Joey King Chris McGrady 
Graphics Graham Ebetsch 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
. (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 63!-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of P1e University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is' not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refUse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assisranr Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inlormation. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicit!S should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The ObJieMr IUSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhroogh Friday except during exam and vaarion periods. Asubscription to The Observer is $.100 fur one academic; yl!af", $55 lOr one sane<;ter. 
l11e OlMtrvtr is publid1ed at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining H;ill Send addresJ (:Qrwcr(ons to: NQtr~ D~mt, !N 46556-0779 ThtObsetvt:r Periodical pos~t-p:1id ;u: No:r:rt Dame P.o. Bo>n9 and addicion.al mailing oflkcs. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Norre Dame. IN 46556-0m 
Tht ObkrYcr ls a membc!:r of the Modau:d Ptes.~, All reproduction tights are rCS~:rvtd. 

"At fifty," said Orwell, "every man has the face he deserves." I suspect he was unconsciously quoting Edwin Stanton, who a century earlier had come to the same conclusion and phrased it only slightly differently: "A man of fifty is responsible for his face." 
When it comes to quotations, the rule is, to whosoever that has, more will be given, and since Stanton only seems to have produced one other memo­rable pronounce­ment (after Lincoln's assassination it was Stanton who said, "Now he belongs to the ages"), Orwell is sure to continue to get the credit for this one too. 
But what exactly did he mean? Well, obviously he wasn't suggesting that when we hit fifty, beauty will be redis­tributed according to merit. If that were true then Mother Teresa would have spent her autumn years looking like Miss Yugoslavia. 
Surely what Orwell meant was that when we are young our faces are just something given to us, like the color of our eyes or hair, but past a certain age our faces bear the marks of the lives we have lived. Laughter and worry have left their marks around the mouth and on the brow, and heartache, contentment and self­indulgence all declare themselves in ways that we can see, even if we can­not always say how. 
Our moral choices are eventually recorded too, which is why the poet John Masefield's description "his face 

Peter Wicks 
Englishman Abroad 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

was filled with broken command­ments" is so strangely evocative and why we instinctively know thq.t the man it refers to is old. 
Joseph Conrad said that the task of the writer was "before all, to make you see." Before making the reader see, the writer must learn to see him­self. This is why, Flannery O'Connor once explained, many writers take up painting; learning to paint well involves learning to see what things look like rather than what we assume they must look like. 
Most fiction does not so much fail at Conrad's task as fail to attempt it. If you find yourself with time to kill at an airport bookstore and flick through the contents of the fiction section you will encounter a succession of men with square jaws and chiseled cheek­bones and women with full lips to match their full figures. These stock descriptions aren't really descriptions at all -they are trigger phrases to indicate which characters are sup­posed to be glamorous objects of fan­tasy. Writing this way is like taking pictures with a camera lens smeared with Vaseline, and has much the same purpose. 
But vivid, original description is not found only in works of high literature. My favorite description of a face comes from Red Dwarf by Grant Naylor: "When she smiled, her eyes lit up like a pinball machine when you win a bonus game." 
Some people do not suit their faces, which is a strange state of affairs, but no stranger than the fact that some people do not suit their names. There is a portrait of Byron as a young man in Trinity College, Cambridge (where he was a student) in which he is paint­ed in profile and bears an uncanny resemblance to the rubber-faced British actor Howan Atkinson, which is not at all how I had pictured the man who Lady Caroline Lamb famously described as mad, bad and dangerous to know. 
In the half-century since Orwell's death we have seen the birth of the age of plastic surgery. Personally I find cosmetic plastic surgery, of the sort by which age is disguised as youth, deeply unsettling. At a certain age, faces should look lived in, like houses. To me the nipped and tucked wrinkle­free faces of celebrities are like houses that are kept (with professional assis­tance) so immaculately free of clutter that they give the eerie impression that no one lives there at all. 
In New York there is a shop that sells what it calls "True Mirrors," which unlike a normal mirror don't reverse left and right and so show us our faces the way that other people see them. Actually, you don't need to go to New York to try this; you can get the same effect by putting two mirrors at right angles and looking at the reflection of your reflection. It's an unsettling experience. For one thing, most of us are less symmetrical than we are prone to imagine, and while True Mirrors doubtless make for an interesting conversation piece, they are more than a little unsettling. 
But then again, if Orwell is right then all mirrors will be true mirrors, in time. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. At various times in his life. he has been told that he resembles Dave Foley, Billy Boyd and his mother. Peter can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
How many inaugural events are you planning to attend? 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
r·1J S'. . b. ' .,t a·· L.. e.··......tt' ,Jf'

1,,u Jm .. ·. ,.·' .. . . e , . 
5 
... . . •' : . . . . ; . . .. 

·:·
,..•~~ t•o.... ·t··h·e, E'···'d·:J·t··o.·r·· a·,t J
I~.n~mCobSe~Br.cOm I 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is better to hide ignorance, but it is hard to do this when we relax over wine." 
Heraclitus Greek philosopher 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 22, 2005 page 11 
Having a home for Christ 
Ynstnrday thn Catholie Chureh eele­bratnd tho Feast of St. Matthew, one of .Josus' apostlos and a martyr for the faith. Also ealled "Levi" in the gospnl accounts of Mark and Luke, Matthew 
workod as a tax eol­ 
lol~tor until he mot  Kate Barrett  
.Jnsus. Aeeording to  
Matthnw's gospnl (the  Faithpoint  
author may or may  
not have benn the  

samn MattheW as the apostle), Jesus simply said to Matthow, "Follow me." Mattlww irnnwdiatoly loft his tax collec­tor's post and hostod Jesus at his horne for dinrwr. 
Othnrs joinnd tlwrn, poople we only know now as "tax eolleetors and sin­rwrs." Thosn two questionablo titles would havn lwnn rwarly interchangeable during Jesus' tinw, as the tax eolloetors not only worknd lin· tho hatod Homan oeeupiors. hut also appanmtly made a habit of ovnrcharging and !wiping thnrn­snlvi~S to tho nxtras. Tho ovnr-alnrt Pharisoos promptly rogistnrod their oll'nnsn at sud1 a dinnnr party, asking tho disciplns why thnir tnadwr so willingly dined with known reprobates. Jesus responded, "Those who are well have no need of a physieian, but those who are siek ... For I have come to call not tho righteous but sinners," (Matthew 9:9­13). 
Jesus' response ought to come as a relief to each of us, as we can be reas­sured that we all certainly fall into the eategory of "those he has eorne to eall." What I lind intriguing about the gospel passage, however, is that not only did Matthew get right up and follow Jesus; he welcomed Jesus into his home and hosted a party for him. It's a much more aetivo imago than simply following Christ: Matthew had sueh an interest in making Jesus a part of his life that he took the initiative to welcome this stranger into his community with a meal. 
I've been asking myself since hearing this gospel passage, "Do I have a horne for Christ?" Have I created an atmos­plwre in my life in which I can not only follow Jesus, but in fact even take more initiative than that? I low do I physieally, concretely welcome Chrio;;t into my home and life? Towards the end of Matthew's 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Shirt' debate draw-n out 
As a l'n~shman hnre at Notre Dame disagree with the eolor choice, but I I had high hopes for strong, intelli­believe that it's time to stop dis­gent conversations and debates. I agreeing over sueh a small thing and must admit th.at lately I have been come together for a better purpose. severely disappointed by a certain Instead we should come together to debate going on in tho University support hurricane victims both now community among students and and in the eoming weeks. We should alumni. Unity and spirit are impor­come together to support soldiers tant to tho Notre Dame community, and military families. We should but to argue over a shirt color from come together to usher in a new thn Blue and Gold game straight up president of the University. We to this point in the year is getting should come together to support a slightly ridieulous. Thorn are people football team and coaeh. along tlw Gulf Coast fearing for their It's time to move on. It's time to put lives, familios and their homes. energy into something that means Tlwrn aro pnopln l'ighti ng for free­morn than the eolor shirt we wear. dom and their eountry all over the It's time to raise the bar on debates world. Thnrr. are political issues both at Notre Dame. lo1~al and national to be concerned with. ynt thn dnbatn that has been Laura Godlewski hottest on this earnpus is the eolor of freshman "Thn Shirt." I think by this time we Pasquerilla West can acknowfndge that some people Sept. 21 gospel, the very challenging Chapter 25 (which we will read as a Church in November, on the last three Sundays of this Church year) asks these same ques­tions through three parables describing the Kingdom of God. In eaeh, people are asked to take the initiative to prepare themselves for Christ: bridesmaids must stock up on oil for their lamps; servants must invest their master's talents; and eaeh of us must give food, drink and wel­come to the poor, as those least ones are Christ himself. 
Perhaps if you Jive on campus you're reading this in your small, crowded room-or in the large, crowded dining hall -wondering how in either setting you eould welcome Jesus and host a decent and hospitable dinner party. No need to worry (or feel yourself let off the hook, either). We can certainly eaeh ere­ate a horne for Christ in our hearts, a simple traveling home that stays with us through the attitude we bring to our daily lives. Matthew was just sitting there doing his job. W1~ may just be sit­ting at our own version of the tax collec­tor's post when we will encounter Christ. 
Will we stand up and allow our lives to be ehanged? Will we even take tho initia­tive to create a new community where none existed before? 
Jesus must have known the potential present in Matthnw's heart, some spark of faith that only needed the right prompt ("Follow mo.") to leap into lil'e. As baptized believers. we have already received this spark of faith. llopel'ully. many varied eneountnrs with Christ have enlivened our faith throughout our livns. Just as hospitable hosts keep their homes "company ready." however. we must consistently snarch for ways to keep our hearts prepared to be a home for Christ. Lot's make sure that we take Jesus' words to each of us, "Follow mn," to heart in tho full, active way that Matthew did. 
Kate Harrell is the !Jirector q/' Resources and Special Projects j(Jr Campus Ministry. She mn be contacted at /Jarrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those oft.he author and not necessarily those q/' The Observer. 
Don't ignore greater aims 
I say it's gold, you say it's yellow. students have both !wart and initia­You say toe-may-toe, I say to-mah-to. tive. While Mr. Kamradt is What difference does it make'? In ernbarassod that the "sea of yellow" response to Mr. Kamradt's Sept. 21 made our students look like Miehigan letter in particular as well as in fans, I am embarrassed that tho response to all those complaining debate over the color of "The Shirt" about "The Shirt," I beg you to knoek has completely overshadowed the it off already. I've become increasing­greater aim of this projeet. I expeet ly more astonished and annoyed by more from my fellow Notrn Damn the exchanges in The Observer about students and Notrn Damn alums. If "The Shirt" since its unveiling last you don't like tho gold/yellow shirt, spring. When I first arrived at Notre join "The Shirt" committee and lobby Dame two years ago and learned to have it changed for next year. about "The Shirt," I was told that Until then, show support for both the every year students form a commit­cause it serves and for our team, tee and design a shirt, and the pro­wear tho '05 Shirt, and use thn effort ceeds from the sales of "The Shirt" expended to argue about the color of benefit charity. "Tho Shirt" for more noble ends. 
I was also told that The Shirt cam­paign was started to help a fellow Rebecca McCurnbers student in need. I thought this was a grad student very noble endeavor, and I thought OfT Campus that it illustrated that Notre Dame Sept. 21 
U-WIRE 


Separating myth from fact about alcohol 
Having reached thn H7th trimester last month (that's 21 years, for you anli-ehoiee fanaties), the government doomed my chances of' contracting Fetal Akohol Syndrome minimal and lif'tml tho prohibition on fun. Still, being a slimy invortr.hratn Bopubliean, I don't 
drink. I absorb liq-Grant 
uids dir~~dty through Reichert my sernr-pnrmnabln skin. Kansas State 
But that dor.sn't Collegian nwan you shouldn't drink. 
Sun~. alcohol gf~ts a bad rap, with rwwspapors wonkly bearing hysteri1~al lwadlirws like "Bingo Drinking Kills Family of 5, Still on the Loose," but you shouldn't ld this nwdia sensationalism harsh your buzz. 
First, wn rwnd to snparatn myth from fact. It's a myth that akohol kills brain colts. Hnally, if alcohol killed brain cells, tlwn why arn sorority girls so smart? This is just a lie put out by Big Watnr, to nnticn you over to their side. 
In fact, aecording to the New England Journal of Authoritative Studies, when you drink, your brain cells lose their regular, staid inhibitions, and some­times you wake up next to some stranger, aceidentally creating little neurons in the process. 
Many also say drunk people drive badly, but I refuse to believe sueh invidious stereotypes. There was onee a time when bigots said the same thing about women. Before long, they're going to say that drunk people aren't strong enough to join tho military or smart enough to vote. Have we really sunk that low'? 
Drunk drivers just need to take cau­tion. Drinking lowers your reflexes, so if you drive, be sure to take some speed or something to balance it out. Oh, and your organ donor eard'? Fill that baby out, too. I've always been a huge fan of your kidneys, not to mention your skull cap-I like the gentle curvature, is all. Of course, having said this, I should inform you drinking ean be dangerous 
in some capacities as well. We should never glorify alcohol use. It incites idi­otic stunts, loosens lips and throws inhibitions to the wind. But it's also got some negative effects. 
For example, some drink to escape from life, whieh ean lead to depression. Drinking just to escape is bad­eseape is better attained through petty vandalism, participation in under­ground fight clubs or liberal political activism. 
You need to know your limits. If you're out drinking and you notiee your blood alcohol level has risen from "0.3" (may lose consciousness) to "0.4" (may be elected senator of Massachusetts), it's time to stop. 
Basically, just listen to your body sig­nals. 
For example, vomiting is your stom­ach's way of telling you, "Hey, dude. keep it coming, I found some morn room over here." 
Alternatively, passing out is your bod­ies way of saying, "Good sir! The party has been quite salubrious, but I think I shall retire 'til the morrow. If anyone should eall. I shall bn on thn floor, ·~~ixt !.amp and ehair, soiling rnysnll'. (,day. 
So don't be seared away from drink­ing by media horror storil~s about ako­holics who drank tlwir lives away. If there weren't such drink-sodden tran­sients, whQ would stain my deek for a ease of Natural Light. or, for that mat­tor, instruet our English classns? And, if' there wnren't so many drunkards, who would I look to when I rwnd a good Christian laugh at the loss fortu­nate'? 
Go ahead, have a beer. Society may very well depend on it.. 
This article originally appeared on Sept. 21 in the Kansas Stale Collegian. the daily publication at Kansas .')late University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of thP author and not neces­sarily those of The Obser11er. 
THE ()BSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Thursday, September 22, 2005 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Piano virtuoso arrives to celebrate inauguration 
By CHRIS McGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 
Leon Fle-ischer, an accomplished pianist and musical sensation, will be joining several other headlining acts as part of the celebration of University President Father John Jenkins inaugu­ration. 
Fleisher was born career in San Francisco and has been tickling the ivories since age four. His first public recital was· at age eight and he has been packing concert houses ever since. 
At the ripe age of 16, Fleisher debuted with the New York Philharmonic. Fleisher spent time touring around the world before dev­astatingly his career was nearly ended. 
During the 1964-1965 season, Fleisher was diagnosed with repetitive stress syndrome, effectively rendering his right hand useless. However, Fleisher was too determined to let this setback become a major one. Through perseverance and hard work, Fleischer joined Luke Skywalker, Jim Abbott, and Captain Hook as three individuals who managed to overcome the loss of one set of phalanges. However, unlike Luke Skywalker and Captain Hooks loss of mobility, Fleisher's suffering was real. However, Fleisher did not less this stop him from doing the things he loved. 
For years, Fleischer played the piano with only one hand. He learned music that was strictly left-handed. It seems to most that this would clearly limit one's playing ability. However, this was not the case at all with Fleisher. Not only did he play incredible music with one hand, in the process Fleischer won two Grammy nominations. It was not until 1995 that Fleisher was once again able to use both hands, complet­ing a performance of the Mozart Concerto. 
in A Major. After recovering from the digit-deadening affliction, Fleisher was able to establish himself once again as a prodigy of the keys. 
In the past few seasons, Fleisher has performed with the San Francisco Symphony, the Orchestre de Paris, and the Berlin Staatsoper Orchestra. However, Fleisher's talents are not limited to only his playing abilities but extend into the realm of conducting as well. 
Fleisher established himself as a conductor when he founded the Theater Chamber Players in 1967 and then became music director of the Annapolis Symphony in 1970. Not only has he spent time as a mainstay con­ductor in many different areas, he has also appeared as a guest conductor with the Boston Symphony, the Chicago Symphony, the Cleveland Orchestra, the Detroit Symphony, the Montreal Symphony, the San Francisco Symphony, and the St, Paul Chamber Orchestra. 
Fleisher currently holds the Andrew 

W. Mellon Chair at the Peabody Conservatory of Music and has done so since 1959. Among his many accom­plishments are honorary doctorates from the San Francisco Conservatory of Music, Towson State University, and the Cleveland Institute of Music. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra and Notre Dame's choral groups will join Fleisher as he helps celebrate University President Father John Jenkins inauguration at 9 p.m. Thursday in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts Leon Fleisher, an accomplished pianist and conductor, will be visiting Notre Dame for a concert with the Notre Dame Orchestra and chorals. 

Performing arts 

As part of the celebration of Father John Jenkins' Inauguration as President of the University of Notre Dame, there will be a series of performing arts related events this week in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. This includes the group Bahola, the Ramsey Lewis Trio, a viewing of "Babette's Feast", and a Blues and Poetry Cafe. 
Bahola 

The Irish character of Notre Dame is one of its defining features, so it seems only fitting that the celebration of a new president of the University would include some traditional Irish music. 
The Irish music group, Bahola, will be performing at Washington Hall at 9 p.m. on Thursday September 22. The unique character: and energy of the group's music will add a special dimension to the Inauguration's festivities. 
The group Bahola consists of Jimmy Keane on the accordion, Sean Cleland on the fiddle and vocalist/dordan player Pat Broaders. The three men were well-known musicians on the Irish music cir­cuit before joining together in what the Irish Herald called a "super group" of Irish musical talent. 
The Chicago-based group is known for the lengthy, complex arrangements that build and change over time. The songs that they cover range from traditional reels, jigs and slides to new songs composed in the vein of traditional Irish music. 
The powerful, driving style of the band stems from the Irish-American spin on traditional Irish music and gives their sound a distinct character. The lengthy arrangements compliment this style since it allows the powerful sound to build and release without restriction. 
The band's name, spelled in all lower-case letters, comes from a small town in County Mayo in west­ern Ireland. 
The band deftly balances traditional music with some modern embellishments, which is the hall­mark of good Irish-American music. Bahola's per­formance will be one not to miss during the series of events that comprises Father Jenkin's Inauguration activities. 
Ramsey Lewis Trio For a night of legendary jazz and piano playing, one should look no further than Decio Mainstage 
STORY B 
M 0 L 
Theatre at 8 p.m. tonight. There, the Trio will be performing their signatur style, a style that has won numer awards. 
Ramsey Lewis' style reflects not on also his early spiritual and classical 1 is composed of Larry Gray on bass, I drums, and Lewis himself on the p 
are commendable musicians in th 
and together they play phenv"'"'a•• 
has been per­forming for a long time now, and his style shows the years of expertise. Lewis has been per­forming for nearly half a century, ere~ ating such hits as "The In Crowd," "Hang on Sloopy" and "Wade in the 
Water." He 
has also 
earned the 
award of 
Personality of 
the Year for 
two straight 
years, in 
1999 and 
2000, as well 
as the R&R 
Industry 
Achievement 

Award for his Sean Cleland, left, J 
w o r k . in the festivities su~ 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Thursday, September 22, 2005 
page 13 
·ump on Jenkins' welcome wagon 

y M A 
B L y G 
ano. All three tir own right, musi<~. Lewis Through his life work in music, he has won numer­ous honorary degrees from various institutions, including the llonorary Doctorate of Arts Degree from thn University of Illinois at Chicago. Lewis was even one or tlw Olympic torch runners in the 2002 wintnr Olympics. 
ThPrn arP not too many opportunities to listen to ex<~nptional jazz in the line city of South Bend, so passing tlw r.hance to see the Hamsey Lewis Trio should lw unthinkable. Opportunities like this come few and far between. 
Babette's Feast 

Tlwre will be a speeial sereening of Gabriel Axel's "Babette's (~aestebud" ("Babette's Feast") today at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. in the Browning Cirwma at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. It is being shown as part of tlw Inauguration nvnnts, as it is one of University President Father John .IPnkins' favorite films. The 19g7 classic is oft­eonsidered one of the best films of the 1980s and is basml on a short story by lsak I>inesen, the author portrayed by Meryl Streep in "Out of Africa." 
Tlw film follows Babette (Stephane Audran), a Parisian political rdugnn, who is taken in by Philippa (Bodil Kj<H) and Martina (Birgitte Fedcwspinl ). From there, the film follows the paths of tlwsn three people, as the audience learns or tlwir pasts and how it will afTect their future. 
In the nwantime, Babette prepares a feast that is far morn than a more meal. as it transcends into an ultimate stat<~nwnt of self and artistic expression. 
"Balwtte's Feast" was a major critical success upon its release and went on to win the Best ForPign Film award at both the Academy Awards and tlw British Acadmny Awards (BAFTA). Some havn eitnd tlw Franco-Danish collaboration as being about food, but the strong critical reception to tlw film's pontidsm suggests otherwise. The New Timc~s review praised "Babette's Feast" as "a very handsonw. very literary film that does justice to the precision of the Dinesen prose." Additionally, the lilm has religious and eultural undertones, as the Babette's Catholicism blends with Northern 
European Protestantism, which illustrates a reje­English professor and poet Cornelius Eady will be lending his talents to the Inauguration tion of' prejudice and stereotypes. celebration as he hosts the Blues and Poetry Cafe at the Philbin Studio Theater. 

R K B E M E N 0 E R F E R , L I Z BYRUM R I A N 0 0 X T A 0 E R, 
R I F F I N A N A L l S E L P A R I 
Blues and Poetry Cafe 

On!~ of several events running at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center this weekend !'or the Inauguration of University President Father John Jenkins is tho Blues and Poetry Cafe. Taking place in tho Philbin Studio Theatre, the Cal'!\ is a more intimate gathering of local spoken-word poets and blues musicians, all with a certain coffeehouse vibe thrown into the mix. 
Managing, eoordinating and hosting the event is 
Notre Dame of English Professor Cornelius Eady, 
himself an aetive playwright and poet. Eady has 
written six books of poetry, including "Vietims of the 
Latest Danee Craze" and "Brutal Imagination." He 
has also been nominated for many national awards 
for his work, including a National Book Award and 
the Lamont Prize for the Aeademy of American 
Poets (whieh he won in 1985). Before coming to Notre Dame, Eady taught at uni­versities sueh as Ameriean University in Washington D.C., Sarah Lawrenee College and New York University. He is also the eofounder of' Cave Canem ­a rapidly grow­ing program for African Ameriean poets. 
Guests at tonight's Poetry and Blues Cal'<\ include some of the African American poets that have been a part or the Cave Cancm eommunity. The readings these talented poets have put have included haikus, the blues, sonnets and other forms. 
One particular performance of interest is the Oblates of Blues, an on-eampus blues group begun by theology professor Max Johnson. The band's lead voealist and harmonica player is none other than Dean of the First Year of Studies Hugh Page, who was able to speak with The Observer about both this unique event and his own group's performance. 
"I have been playing with the band since it began in 1999, and our first performance on eampus was in 2000," Dean Page said about his nxpnrience with the Oblates of Blues. 
Hegarding performing alongside several promi­nent poets, in particular those from Eady's Cave Canem workshop, Page said "I think it's great. It's an opportunity to hear spoken word poets, some from Chicago and some from South Bend. !tearing the juxtaposition of spoken word with blues music is a wonderful opportunity for communication, as these arc two important genres that have bonn essential in both the African-American and othnr communities." 
While it may seem odd to indude such perform­ances as the Blues and Poetry Cafn in conjunetion with Father .Jenkins' Inauguration. Page disagrnes. "I feel that a well-rounded Ca.tholie education must contain elements of the humanitins, tho S!~innens and the arts. Arts arc·one of the key languages through which humanity can achieve understanding," lw said. 
The eoiTeehouse-type format of tho nvcnt, as wnll as its mixture of' music and poetry, is unique in com­parison to past pPrf'ormancns f'or tlw Oblates of' Blues. 
As it helps to usher in a nnw era, tho Blues and Poetry Cafe ean snrvn the Notrn l>anw and Saint Mary's communities as an opportunity f'or that understanding and communication to thrive in a f'un, cultural f'ormat. 
The Blues and Pontry Caf'1\ will run in tlw Hngis Philbin Studio Theatr·c of' the I>PAC f'rom 6:30 to 
11:00 p.m. September today and Friday. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer, Liz Byrum, Brian Doxtader, Molly Griffin and Analise Lipari at bemende@nd.edu,ebyrum@nd.edu, bdoztade@nd.edu, mgriffin@nd.edu and alipari@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts on in different 
Keane, middle, and Pat Broaders make up the Irish folk group "Bahola," which will participate eities around .,noonttlno University President Father John Jenkins' Inauguration. the eountry 
-----------------------------------------------------~-------­
Thursday, September 22, 2005 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Yankees defeat Orioles, take over AL East lead 
Indians cut White Sox lead to 2 1/2 garnes; Astros stay atop NL wild card race 
took a 4-2 lead into the eighth. The knuckleballer is 13-1 life­time against thn Devil Rays and had allowed one hit and only three baserunnnrs over the pre­vious five innings. 
Trever Miller 12-2) pitched 1 1­3 innings for the victory. Danys Baez worked the ninth to earn his 39th save in 47 opportuni­ties. 
Houston 12, Pittsburgh 8 
Lance Berkman hit his 20th homer and drove in five runs as the Houston Astros built an 8-0 lead and then held off the Pittsburgh Pirates on Wednesday night. 
It was the seventh win in eight games for Houston. which entered the day with a two-game lead over Philadelphia in the NL wild-card race. 
Berkman hit a three-run homer in a four-run first inning and Mike Lamb hit a three-run homer in a four-run second as the Astros moved 14 gamflS over .500 (83-69) for the first time this season. 
Roy Oswalt 118-12) allowed four runs, three earned, and nine hits over six innings to win for the fourth time in five deci­sions. l-Ie struck out six and walked two. 

Kip Wells (7 -17) became the first pitcher in the majors to lose 17 games this season. He lasted two innings, his shortest outing since retiring just two batters on Aug. 24 agains1 St. Louis, allow­ing eight runs and five hits while walking three. 
Pittsburgh cut the lead to 8-4, but the Astros scored two runs ofT reliever Brian Meadows. The Pirates got within 10-7 on Ryan Doumit's two-run homer off Russ Springer in the seventh and Freddy Sanchez's solo homer off Dan Wheeler in the eighth. 
Houston scored two unearned runs in the ninth when Lamb doubled, mo\-ed to third on Jason Lane's single and scored when Doumit mishandled third basemen Ty Wigginton's throw home on Brad Ausmus' grounder. Lan11 moved to third on the error and scored on pinch-hitter Jose Vizcaino's ground out. 
Philadelphia 10, Atlanta 6 

Ryan I Ioward hit a grand slam in the 10th inning and the Philadelphia Phillies boosted their faltering playoff hopes with a victory over the Atlanta Braves on Wednesday night. 
Jimmy Rollins drove in two runs and extended his hitting streak to 26 games as the Phillies pulled within tive games of the Braves in the NL East. 

Both teams have 10 games remaining, leaving Atlanta's magic number for clinching a 14th straight division title at six. 
The Phillies' best hope for reaching the playoffs is the wild card. They remained two games behind Houston, which won 12-8 at Pittsburgh. 
The Braves overcame two three-run deficits. Adam LaRoche hit a three-run homer and had four HB!s in all and Johnny Estrada added a two-run shot. 
But it wasn't enough. 
Philadelphia loaded the bases with no outs in the 1Oth off Kyle Davies (7-4). Shane Victorino hit into a forceout at the plate, and the Braves brought in left-ban­der John Foster to face Howard. 
The move didn't pay off. Foster, who had not pitched in eight days because of a sore elbow, fell behind 2-0 then gave up the opposite-field shot into the left-field stands. 
Cleveland 8, Chicago 0 
Cleveland's chase of the White Sox got a big boost from 6-foot-8 Scott Elarton and powerful Travis Hafner. Now the Indians are only 2 112 games behind first-place Chicago in the AL Central again. 
Elarton pitched five-hit ball into the eighth inning and Hafner homered twice, leading the Indians to a vietory Wednesday night over the White Sox. Cleveland took two of three in the crucial series, helped by Hafner's four home runs. 
The Indians, who trailed by 15 games on Aug. 1, won for the 14th time in 16 tries and bounced back from a 10-inning loss Tuesday night when Joe Crede hit a game-winning homer. 
Hafner, who has homered in four straight games overall, hit a long three-run shot to center off Jon Garland in the eighth to quiet a loud sellout crowd 36,543. He added a two-run shot off Jeff Bajenaru in the ninth, giving him a career-high 30 for the season and 1 00 RB!s. 
Casey Blake and Grady Sizemore also connected for Cleveland, which had 12 hits. 
The Indians maintained the AL wild-card lead while also putting more pressure on the White Sox, who've been in first place every day this season, but have lost nine of 13. 
And on paper, at least, the Indians have an easier schedule over the final 11 days of the sea­son--four games against Kansas City, an off day, three home games against Tampa Bay and then a three-game finale at home against the White Sox. 
Before the White Sox go to Jacobs Field, they must play four games at home against the Twins and then four in Detroit. 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Randy Johnson was his old self, glaring and pointing. The Big Unit not only made it into the late innings, he pitched the New York Yankees into first place. 
Johnson limited the Baltimore Orioles to three hits over eight innings in his first start since a second-inning ejection last week, and Matt Lawton broke out of a long slump with a two-run homer that carried the Yankees to a 2-1 victory Wednesday night. 
New York, which won for the ninth time in 10 games, took over the AL East lead from Boston, which lost 7-4 at Tampa Bay. The Yankees had been in sole possession of first place for only two days this season: after an opening night win over the Hed Sox and after a July 18 vic­tory in Texas. 
Just as New York closed out Baltimore, a roar went up in the Yankee Stadium crowd when the scoreboard showed that the Devil Hays had taken an eighth­inning lead against Boston. 
On Friday night at Toronto, Johnson was ejected in the sec­ond inning for repeatedly com­plaining about the calls of plate umpire Fieldin Culbreth. He did­n't get into it with Tuesday's plate umpire, Larry Vanover, but did motion at first-base umpire Randy Marsh when he didn't get a check-swing call. 
Johnson (15-8) didn't allow a hit until the fifth inning and did­n't give up a run until the sixth, when Melvin Mora hit a long RBI double. Third baseman Alex 
Rodriguez helped the Big Unit 
out twice in the sixth, backhand­
ing Bernie Castro's grounder 
over the bag to hold him to a 
single, then sprawling on his 
knees to grab Javy Lopez's two­
out grounder to his glove side 
and throwing to first to end the 
inning with Mora on third. 
Johnson pointed at A-Rod as 

he came ofT the mound. 
Johnson struck out six and 

walked one, improving to 4-0 in 
his last six starts. He a.Iso got 
help from first baseman Jason 
Giambi, who stretched prone in 
the fifth to glove a throw from 
shortstop Derek Jeter and com­
plete an inning-ending double 
play on Luis Matos' grounder. 
Tampa Bay 7, Boston 4 
The Tampa Bay Devil Rays ral­

lied for live runs in the eighth 
inning Wednesday night to beat 
the Boston Hed Sox and knock 
the defending world champions 
out of first place in the AL East. 
Jorge Cantu chased Boston 

starter Tim Wakefield with a 
two-out HBI single, and Jonny 
Gomes' two-run triple off Mike 
Timlin (7-3) put the last-place 
Devil Rays ahead 5-4. 
Eric Munson followed with a 

two-run double and Alex ·Gonzalez added an RBI single to ensure Boston's 64-day stay atop 
the division would end. 
The loss, coupled with New 

York's 2-1 victory over 
Baltimore, left the Yankees in 
first place for the first time in 
more than two months. 
Manny Ramirez homered for 

the third time in two games for 
the Red Sox, who appeared to be 
in good shape when Wakefield 
AP 


Houston's Lance Berkman, right, rounds third base after hitting a home run Wednesday. The Astros' 12-8 win over the Pirates kept them atop the NL wild card standings. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Single/married faculty/staff. Own a Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for NO Need 4 tix to any football game. Call UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do lovely home near NO for less than game weekends. 7732182203 not go it alone. If you or someone
Jack 57 4-67 4-6593. you pay for rent Believe it! Call you love needs confidential support
FoR SALE TICKETS 
WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game. Call 203-261-8717 Jim. 
Dale (574) 243-9547 Coldwell Furnished room w/everything or assistance, please call Sr. M.L 
Riverfront Condominiums in Niles. Banker. except food. 3 blocks to NO. $450. WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. Spectacular St. Joe River views. 289-3397 TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. For more information, see our bi-
Condo conversion with new weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. kitchens,baths,sliders and decks. FoR RENT Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. PERSONAL Only 20 minutes to Notre Dame. 289·9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE WE LOVE JACK!!! 
(Jamison) condo 11/21/05-05/06. One bedroom units $99,900. Two FOR$$: www.victorytickets.com Spring Break 2006. Travel with 
bedroom unit$149,900. HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER USC Countdown: 23 days 
Call Mary Anne Benedict 607-723­STS, America s #1 Student Tour Call Michael Kuhn of Keller Williams PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAIL· 
7363. BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT-
Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, 
ABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS So I jump ship in Hong Kong, and I 
BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 
Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida.
Realty toll-free at 866-840-6511. UP TO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO NO. make my way over to Tibet and I get 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH-273-3911. 
Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for 
FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL on as a looper at a course over
BORHOODS group discounts. 

1 bdrm condo near NO. All appli-KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS-there in the Himalayas ... 
BUY SELL OR TRADE NO FOOT­Information/Reservations 1-800­
ances.$69,000. Call Kim Kollar 574-BALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID. A.M. 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com
280-8160. OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315-5032. andersonNDrentals.com -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 Protect this house 
Thursday, September 22, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page I 5 
NFL 
Colts offense looking to score some points 

After Manning's big season, Indianapolis is currently quiet 
Associated Press 
INI>IANAPOI.IS -Pnyton Manning has two touchdown passes in two wonks. Marvin Harrison has barely reached 100 yards total. Edgerrin James still hasn't scornd, and the Colts' dangerous roeeiving corps has combined for only one TD rnception. 
For most other teams, those numbers would be forgotten artnr two straight wins. In Indianapolis, it's causing con­sternation. 
"llopnfully we can put some drives together. put some points on tho board and get it going," wide recniver Brandon Stokley said Wednesday. 
The Colts an~ not aecustomed to answering qunstions about what's wrong with the offnnse, but then this has bnen no typi­cal start. 
Indianapolis, long labeled a finnsse team, has used a strong dnfonse and a power running game to grind out victories over Baltimore and Jacksonville. While the results have been elTeetive, they've gotten poor marks for artistry. 
Many now wonder what has happened to one of the league's most proficient offensns, whieh also struggled throughout the prnseason. Indianapolis is aver­aging 17 points its first two games, less when Cato June's interception return for a touch­down is removed from the equation. 
And nobody seems immune from the struggles. 
Manning, who set NFL records for TD passes (49) and passer rating ( 121.1) on his way to a second straight MVP last season, has been anything but perfect. In Sunday's 10-3 victory over Jaeksonville, Manning was 13-of-28 for 122 yards with one interception. The yardage total was the second-lowest of his career and his rating of 44.0 

was his worst effort in four years. 
Ilis overall rating of 7 4.7 this 
find out what's blowing in 
I





the wind 
.~ 
··-'.-~-7'...-. 

If 20 of GE's largest wind turbines were used to replace the same amount of energy generated in the U.S. through traditional sources, greenhouse gas emissions could be reduced annually by an amount equal to taking nearly 27.000 cars off the road in the U.S. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to find your answer to ecomagination through a career in engineering. f1nance. manufacturing. sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology. 
TODAY is the last day for resume drop 
Thursday, September 22nd See Go IRISH for details. 
ecomagination~M 
to learn more visit us at gecoreers.com/notredame 
a.'l equa! ono'tun ty ern,,:oye' 
~ 


imagination at work 
~ 


year is even lower than that of his brother, Eli, who is at 76.3. 
Manning and Harrison eould­n 't produce the f>O yards nnndnd to set a new NFL rneord for passing yardage by a quarter­back-receiver tandem and enter this week's game against. Cleveland still 24 yards short. 
Is something wrong'? 

"It happens during thn eoursn of' the season, sometimes in baek-to-back games," coach Tony Dungy said. "But wo'rn not concerned. I don't think people have caught up to our ofi'ense." 
Manning chalks up most of the early trouble to the Colts opponents. 
Baltimore and Jacksonville are known as two of the league's most talented and aggressive defenses, and they both threw different looks at the Colts. 
The Havens used their blitz package more than usual in Week 1, while Jacksonville dared the Colts to run by drop­ping extra defenders into cover­age. Indianapolis countered the Jags by relying on James, who carried 27 times for 128 yards. The perception is that the Colts quiek-strike offnnse has struek out. 
During thn next f'ive weeks, things could ehangn dramatieal­ly. 
Manning & Co. faen Clnveland. Tennessee, San Franeiseo, St. Louis and llouston -defenses that should givn Indianapolis a little morn room to gnt its air show ofl' the ground. 
Manning rweds 1 S2 yards against the Browns to bneome the second-fastest player to rnach 30,000 career yards. Dan Marino did it in 114 games; Manning will start his 11 !ith straight game Sunday. 
At this ratn, hn may have to wait another week -and he doesn't snem to mind. 
"I think defenses like to make the offense go the long route, that's our philosophy," Manning said. "But the. idea is to be patient, to take those 2-or 3­yard plays, break a tackle and turn it into a 20-yard gain." 
But the Colts have other plans. 
After two straight subpar weeks, the Colts hope to break out of their funk against Cleveland and show the NFL that they haven't lost a thing. 
"We do want to nstablish good balanee with our running game and passing game and get into the end zone," Manning said. "We also want to keep win­ning." 
------------------------~----------~-------.--------.-­

OUND T-HE NATION 
Thursday, September 22, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 16 


Major League Baseball 
American League East 
team  record  perc.  last 10  
New York  88-63  .583  8-2  
Boston  88-64  .579  5-5  
Toronto  74-77  .490  4-6  
Baltimore  70-81  .464  5-5  
Tampa Bay  64-89  .418  4-6  

American League Central 
team record perc. last 10 Chicago 91-59 .607 4-6 Cleveland 88-63 .583 8-2 Minnesota 77-74 .510 4-6 Detroit 67-85 .441 2-8 Kansas City 52-99 .344 6-4 
American League West 
team record perc. last 10 
Los Angeles 85-65 .567 6-4 Oakland 84-68 .553 5-5 Texas 75-76 .497 6-4 Seattle 66-86 .434 4-6 
National League East 
team record perc. last 10 Atlanta 86-65 .570 5-5 Philadelphia 80-71 .530 6-4 Florida 79-72 .523 4-6 Washington 77-75 .507 4-6 New York 74-76 .493 4-6 
National League Central 
team record perc. last 10 St. Louis 96-57 .627 5-5 Houston 83-69 .546 6-4 Milwaukee 74-76 .493 5-5 Chicago 74-77 .490 5-5 Cincinnati 70-81 .464 5-5 Pittsburgh 62-90 .408 5-5 
National League West 
team record perc. last 10 San Diego 75-75 .500 4-6 San Francisco 71-80 .470 7-3 Arizona 68-83 .450 5-5 Los Angeles 67-83 .447 4-6 Colorado 62-88 .413 6-4 
MLS 
Eastern Conference 
team record pts. 

New England 15-6-6 51 D.C. United 14-9-5 47 Chicago 14-10-3 45 Kansas City 11-7-10 43 
MetroStars 10-7-10 40 
Columbus 9-14-3 30 
Western Conference 
team record pts. 

San Jose 15-4-8 53 
FC Dallas 11-9-6 38 

Los Angeles 11-11-6 39 
Colorado 9-13-4 31 
Real Salt Lake 5-17-4 19 
Chivas USA 3-20·5 14 
GB 
.5 14 18 25 
GB 
3.5 14.5 25 39.5 
GB 
2 10.5 20 
GB 
6 5 2 1 
GB 
12.5 20.5 21 25 33.5 
GB 
4.5 7.5 8 13 
+1­
18 17 2 10 5 -11 
+1­
16 
5 ' 2 -3 
-28 -33 

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Air Force at Utah 6:30p.m., ESPN LA-Monroe at FL Atlantic 6:30 p.m., ESPNU 
MLB Philadelphia at Atlanta 12:05 p.m., TBS 
GOLF President's Cup 12 p.m., TNT Valero Texas Open 3 p.m., ESPN Albertson's Boise Open 4 p.m., GOLF 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Brian Roberts has ligament and tendon damage in his left arm and will need surgery that usually requires a recovery time of about six months. 
Baltimore's All-Star sec· ond baseman and leadoff hitter remained hospital­ized at Columbia­Presbyterian Medical Center on Wednesday, a day after a collision with the New York Yankees' Bubba Crosby. Roberts was being given painkillers and will return to Baltimore on Thursday, Orioles trainer Hichie Bancells said. 
A tendon in Roberts' arm was torn off the bone when the elbow was dislo­cated, and he tore his ulnar collateral ligament, according to Bancells. 
Roberts' pronator flexor tendon has to be sewn to the bone, Bancells said, and doctors will decide whether the ligament also needs to be repaired. Swelling must subside before Roberts can be operated on, and surgery i:; likely in about 10 days. 
"Whether he just gets the tendon taken care of and not the ligament, or both, the rehab time is exactly the same," 
IN BRIEF 

BC quarterback unceJrtain 
for Saturday after injury 
BOSTON -The only thing that's 
changed for Boston College backup 
Matthew Ryan is the quarterback he's 
replacing. 

Ryan came on in relief when starter 
Quinton Porter hurt his ankle in the 
third quarter of Saturday night's 28­
17 loss to Florida State. Ryan :;;tarted 
slowly but took BC to the Seminoles 2 
in the fmal minutes before the Eagles 
failed to punch it in. 
Coach Tom O'Brien isn't sure 
whether Porter will be back for 
Saturday's game at Clemson. · "He's hobbling," O'Brien said 
before Porter missed practice on 
Tuesday. "If he can practice this 
week, he'll play. If he can't, he won't. 
We'll find out." 
Ryan backed up Paul Peterson as a 
freshman in 2004, when Porto3r red­
shirted. Ryan played in four games, 
relieving Peterson in the second half 
of the Nov. 20 game against Temple 
when the starter injured his hand. 
Bancells said. "His healing time with all of that is probably somewhere in the three-month period. Before we get him all back to completely rehab and full function, we're proba­bly looking at around a six-month period. 
"He'll be behind the rest of the group in spring training," Bancells said. "I don't have right now, after talking to the doctors and all that, any reason in the world to not expect a full recovery and a good out­come for Brian." 
Orioles interim manager Sam Perlozzo expects Roberts back sometime during spring training. 
"Whether it's late spring or early spring, we cer­tainly don't know yet," Perlozzo said. 
Roberts covered first base when B.J. Surhoff ran in to field Crosby's second-inning bunt. Crosby crashed into Roberts' outstretched left arm, snapping it back. 
Perlozzo didn't blame Crosby for being on the inside of the baseline. 
"He didn't try to do any­thing wrong," Perlozzo said. "If he was inside, he wasn't very far inside." 
Baseball rules require a runner to be on the foul side of the line as he approaches first. 

Defensive end gets ninth sack in consecutive games 
Elvis has been sighted often in the 
backfield of Louisville opponents. 
Cardinals defensive end Elvis 
Dumervil had three sacks in a 63-27 
win over Oregon State last Saturday, 
and set an NCAA record with his ninth 
sack in consecutive games. That 
eclipsed the mark of eight set by 
Georgia Tech's Pat Swilling in 1985. 
Dumervil had a Big East-record six 
sacks in the first half against rival 
Kentucky in the Cardinals' 31-24 win 
in the season opener. 
He added six tackles and two forced 
fumbles against the Beavers. 
Despite putting up 553 yards in total 
offense against Oregon State, coach 
Bobby Petrino said much of the credit 
for the lopsided win goes to Dumervil 
and the rest of the defensive line. 
"I think that became the difference in the game -the pressure and the amount of times we were able to hit .their quarterback and force 
turnovers," he said Monday. 
Colts sign two free a_Rents to 
add depth to injureoroster 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indianapolis Colts shored up a depleted backfield Wednesday by signing free agent running backs Kory Chapman and Anthony Davis. 
Chapman, 6-foot-1, 202 pounds, was originally signed by Baltimore as an undrafted free agent in 2004 and was allocated to NFL Europe by the New England Patriots this spring. He is expected to be on the Colts' active roster Sunday against Cleveland, and coach Tony Dungy said Chapman could see action on special teams. 
The Colts also brought back Davis, their seventh-round draft choice in April, to the practice squad. Davis was waived Sept. 3 in the final round of cuts. 
Indianapolis needed help because backup running back Dominic Rhodes bruised his left shoulder. Jacksonville and is listed as doubtful for this week's game. 
---~--~ 
Thursday, September 22, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Freshman Georgia Tech QB may start Saturday 
in last week for the 15th-ranked biggest games in years.
No. 15 Yellow Jackets 
Yellow Jackets, getting his first The winner gets an early start at quarterback after jump on a spot in the first
prepare for contest 
Heggie Ball became ill with viral Atlantic Coast Conference with No. 4 Hokies meningitis. Benru~tt didn't make championship game. Not that 
any major gaffes in a 28-13 vie­one could tell from Bennett's 
Associated Press 
tory over Connecticut. laid-back approach. 
ATLANTA -Taylor Bennett With Ball still recovering, "It's just another game, real­spent most of his high school Bennett may have to go again ly," he said with a shrug. "In earner on the bnnch. Saturday -and this time the college football, every game is a 
Once ho got to Gnorgia Tech, stakes would be infinitely high­playoff game. There's no play­his chance to play came a lot er. The Yellow Jackets go on the offs at the end, so every game quicker. road to meet fourth-ranked matters." 
The rndshirt l'rnshman lilled Virginia Tech, one of their Ball, who was hospitalized for 
A OIN 

Thursday.. Scptcrnbcr 22, 2005 
Catholic g&A 
Why do Catholics use incense? 
Mar1y Catholics and non-Catholics alike associate the use incense <from Larin, •(to hum') with the Cathobc liturgy. When oWing a Mass, popular mov•es ("*Keeping the Faith'" C()t'l'le$ to 
seemingly love to include a priest or altar server swinging e thuriblt!, a censer attached to a long chain, with smoke billow­ng from it. But "".fry do we evM utie it'? 'Why the need for the rotedmics display? The use of incense developed to serve a couple ofditTerent 
•rn.r.a.-in the church. First otft it VrrnS often used in processions nto and out of dte church, accomp.anaed by the proeess1on.al croos, 
-bearers, and priest-celebrants, Theologically speaking, smoke rising from the dmrible symbolizes our prayers rising 
o God in he~wen, and its sw~ fragrance rerntnds ttS of our call to purity. Practically speaking. the incmse's pleasing aroma also as a room-deodorizer, especaally in the Maddle Ages v.hen rsonal hygiene practices were not as devei()J.'I'ed as today. In the Holy Scriptures, we see Incense mentioned in both Old and New Testaments. ln Exodus) the description of the 
te~Tlp~e liturgy includes the burning of incense oo an altar an offerang to God In the New Testament. incense shows l)p the Nativity, as ooe of the gifts of the Magi (and frankincense 
s still the main compone11t of incoose even today.) Later in the of St. John, we he.ar of an angel ..holding a gold censer. was given a great quantity of incense to offer. along with the 
~...!)\.....~ 
of all the hoiy ones. . . The smoke of the incense along with the prayers of the holy ones Vf-ent up before God from the d offhe anger' (Re\' 8:3-4, NAB). Retummg to ats u~i'e In the Mas~ incense is used to show 
or and mrerence to holy things: the book of the Gospels, the tar (and the gtfts ther~n), the crucifix., and (.espe(;ially during aster) the Pascal Candle. The priest and th~e of us pre:soot in 
oortgregation are also •·censed .. at Mass, as we too are holy, set to be temples of the Holy Spirit. 
Send your questions to Brett Perkins at 
two days, returned to practiee on Tuesday but didn't do any strenuous work. Coach Chan Gailey said the junior's chances of' playing were only 50-50, and there's a good chance he won't be strong enough to make it through a whole game even if he does play. 
Which brings us back to Bennett, an unlikely player for such a big stage. 
Going into his senior year at Lafayette lligh School in St. 
Louis, Bennett wasn't even on the radar screen for college recruiters. Why would hav(\ been? No one had really seen him play, since he spent three years as a backup. 
Bennett made the best of the situation and nevnr considered trying to move to another high school. · 
"I just wanted to stick it out," he said. "It's good to sit back behind somebody. It's a learning experience." 
Phone 
l·'l'KliO 
Matn Office 
1l9CoMn 
RE<treats Office 
114 CnMo

Campus Ministry 
Web 

Matthew Hughes· participation in many Campu.'t Ministry and Center Soc.iaJ Coot:ems ac:ti,.ities makes him a great example of how one can live out their faith at Notre Dame Matt is a junior from Keenan Hall and is a Theology Major pursuing manors in Latin American Studies and Liturgi­cal Music Ministry. He is a liturgacal oommissioner for Koenan. sings with the folk Choir and has bema cat.. ecbist in locJd South Bend parishes. Matt has participated in d'te CSC fall break seminar to Appalachia as weU as a CSC Summer Servit:~ Proje\.1 in Phoenix, Arizona. He used both sets of expeneuce at the start or the school year when he helped out and partici­pa.ted in the Leadership tn Ministty Retttat for liturgical, musical and service commissioners. \\lith all that Ivta.tt Is .nvolved 1n, he is also prepar~ ing for a semester loog smr1ce learn­ing experience in Santiago, Chale, this spring, Matt is a great example of a person whose commltmertt to servi~ fiows. from his fruth. Thanks for shar· ing your talents m so many differc:nt w11ysMatH 
Let us know who out there is making a difference! 
Send nominations to Brian Vassel at 

,........-----------~-----~-~----~ ~--­
Thursday, September 22, 2005 

page 18 The Observer •~ SPORTS 
NBA 
Hornets find temporary home in Oklahoma City 
Team will play 35 games at Ford Center, six in Baton Rouge 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY-Chased 
from their home by Hurricane 
Katrina, the New Orleans 
Hornets have found a tempo­
rary refuge and a fresh start. 
The Hornets announeed 
plans Wednesday to play 35 
home games in Oklahoma City 
and six others in Baton Houge, 
La., after a relocation agree­
ment was approved by the city 
couneil. 
The New Orleans Arena sus­
tained extensive water damage 
from the hurricane and will 
take months to repair. But even 
if New Orleans is ready to wel­
come the team back before the 
2005-06 season ends, the 
Hornets are locked into their 
35 dates at the 19,675-seat 
Ford Center. 
The team will alter its home jerseys so they read "Hornets" on the front. The road jerseys will f1;1ature the words "New Orleans," but a pateh on the shoulder will recognize Oklahoma City. In standings and statisties, the NBA plans to call the team the New Orleans/Oklahoma City Hornets. 
Playoff games also would be 
played in Oklahoma City, and 
the Hornets will have the 
option to stay for an extra year. 
"This whole thing is some­
what bittersweet," owner 
George Shinn said. "''ve got a 
fine line to walk. I want to be 
enthusiastic to the people here 
and let them know I'm proud 
and that we're going to make this thing work. I also want to make sure that people in New Orleans have hope beeause they've gone through a lot. 
"It's not even real. It's unreal what they're going through. I want to try to give them hope and to let them know our goal is to come back." 
All of the Hornets' games against Eastern Conferenee opponents will be played in Oklahoma City. The games seheduled for Baton Houge are Dec. 16 against Phoenix, Jan. 13 against Saeramento, Jan. 18 against Memphis, March 8 against the Los Angeles Lakers, March 18 against Denver and Mareh 21 against the Los Angeles Clippers. 
The three games seheduled for Baton Rouge in March could be moved to New Orleans if circumstances permit, league attorney Joel Litvin said. 
"I was in New Orleans just this past week. It is a terrible, terrible feeling to see all the homes that, to me, look destroyed," Shinn said. "It's not just the arena. If the arena is in playing condition, will there be fans there? I don't know how many people will come baek and how quickly they'll come back." 
Numerous other cities ­including San Diego, Las Vegas, Nashville, Tenn., and Kansas City, Mo. -also made offers to host the team for the upcoming season, but Oklahoma City had what few others eould offer -a top­quality arena with few sched­uling conflicts. 
The city already has a Triple­A baseball team, an arena foot­

<(_C 

COCHRAN, CARONIA & Co. 
Investment Banking 
Cochran, Caronia & Co. invites academically strong accounting and tinance majors with an interest in an investment banking career to join us for an infonnation session on 
Thursday, September 22•d Center for Continuing Education McKenna Hall Room 112 6:00pm to 8:00pm 
Food and beverages will be served 
!lear why Cochran. Caronia & Co. represents a compelling investment banking opportunity. 
ball team and a minor-league 
hoekey team, but has never 
had a major league sports 
team. 
"We are going to prove to the 

world that Oklahoma City is a 
major league eity," Shinn said. 
In addition to use of the eity­

owned Ford Center, built in 
2002, the eity will make provi­
sions for the Hornets to have a 
praetiee faeility, downtown 
offiee spaee and housing for 
the upeoming Sf:ason. 
Approximately 7,500 tiekets . for eaeh of the 35 games will 
be priced at $20 or less. On 
Wednesday, the first day of 
sales, the team received com­
mitments for more than 2,000 
.season tickets, aceording to a 
team spokesman. The Hornets 
took deposits of $200 toward 
the priee of season tickets, 
whieh will be available for as 
little as $999. 
''I'd rather have a full house 

at a medium price than half­
full at a high price," said 
Shinn, who eompared the 
approach to the strategy that 
helped make the Hornets the 
No. 1 team in average atten­
dance during its first eight sea­
sons in Charlotte. 
The move also makes geo­

graphic sense. While Oklahoma 
City is more than 700 miles 
away from New Orleans, the 
Hornets' Southwest Division 
foes in Dallas, San Antonio and 
Houston won't have to trek far 
to play games here. 
Oklahoma City will be the 

Hornets' third home in five 
seasons. The team, which 
moved from Charlotte in 2002, 
ranked last in the league in 
attendanee last season with an 
average of 14,221. 

New Orleans Hornets forward Lee Nailon, right, shoots over the Spurs' Tim Duncan in a Dec. 17 game. The Hornets will play the majority of their home games this season in Oklahoma City. 
SALON RoUGE 
(formerly Atria Salon) 
1 5 %off all services* 
• 
Specializing in Color & Cuts 

• 
Close to campus 


57 4.289.5080 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. • South Bend, IN www.salonrougeinc.com *discount with student ID, Mon-Wed 
r...........,...-...............-..~ ........................._..........-~-.................................-........................................."'..~··-··~ ............... ~ ............................................................................................40 ..........................................~ ...................... . 
Study in CHINA 
Information Sessions for 
;.-.::;:: 

8€1)tN~ 
and 

~HAN~HAI 
5PM Tuesday, September 20 117 Hayes-Healy or 5PM Monday, September 26 129 Hayes-Healy 
Thursday, September 29, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Jackson 
continued from page 24 
class af'ter Irish coach Mike Brny inked four freshmen for thn coming 2005-06 season, Jackson joins Indiana power forward Lukn llarangody (No. 51<, Hivals.com) in eommilling to play for Notre Dame begin­ning in Llw fall of 2006. 
The Irish already have a freshman point guard for the corning snason in 6-foot-1 Staten Island, N.Y., native Kyle McAlarney, but Brey has bnnn known to use two small­er guards on the floor before. 
Jackson did not return phone calls Wednesday nvening. and Brey is not allowed to comment on recruits under NCAA recruit­ing rngulations until the Novnmber early signing peri­od. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL 
High school player's death undeterlllined 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS An autopsy failnd to dotermine thn cause of death of· a Cathedral lligh School foot­hall player, the Marion County coroner's ol'fice said Wednesday. 
Jeramy Sch-mitt, 18, a senior offensive lineman, collapsed on the lleld during practice Tuesday afternoon and was pronounced dead at Methodist Hospital about an hour later. 
"We wern not able to lind onn single thing in the autopsy," said John Linehan, a Marion County deputy eoronnr. "IIis heart was linn, his lungs were fine, and there was no sign of blunt­force trauma. Hight now, we havn no anatomical causn of death at all." 
lin said specialists at the Indiana University School of Mndicinn will also nxaminn hnart tissue for po~si ble defects, and the coroner's office is awaiting results of a toxicology test. Schmitt, who was 6 feet and 255 pounds, had asthma, but Linehan said that did not kill him. 
Cathedral, ranked No. 2 in Class 4A, is scheduled to play No. 4 Honcalli, the defending state champion, in the RCA Dome on Friday night as part of Colts quar­terback Peyton Manning's annual PeyBack Cla-ssic. 
"Jeramy was a great kid and a team player," Cathedral coach Jim O'Hara said. "We're all in shock, but we will be there for the Schmitt family." 
Manning said it was up to Cathedral whether to cancel the game or to play. 
"That's a unique situation, where football's not really high on tho priority list," Manning said before the Colts' practice Wednesday a!'tornoon. 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

LPGA 
Wie to tum pro before age 16 
$10 million in endorsements await amateur golfer 
Associated Press 
Everywhere she goes, people can't help but notice Michelle Wie. 
As a 13-year-old still wearing a retainer, she was warming up on the practice range for a jun­ior pro-am at the Sony Opnn in llonolulu. When she pulled out her driver, live PGA Tour play­ers on both sides of' her stopped to watch her launch tee shots that approached the 300-yard marker. 
Last year in Portugal, where Wie received the Laureus World Newcomer of the Year award, she walked into the banquet room lilled with celebrities that incIuded as Michael Douglas, Morgan Freeman and Placido Domingo. 
"Everyone in the room stopped what they were doing and watched her go to her AP 
Michelle Wle analyzes a putt on the No. 7 hole at the Evlan
table," said Greg Nared, aNike 
Masters women's golf tournament In Evian, France. 

business manager who has been tracking Wie the last two years. "That told me a lot." Tour event Wie plays this year. 
The 15-yoar-old from Hawaii "There is nothing to say until who commands so much atten­everything is completed," her tion is on the verge of com­father, B.J. Wie, said manding top money. Wie is Wednesday. about to turn pro, and endorse­He added that "we arn getting ments estimated to be worth as close," but said her decision to much as $10 million a year turn pro would not be related to await. Samsung. 
Two sources close to Wie, "It doesn't have to be associat­speaking on condition of ed with a tournament she would anonymity because she is still play," the father said. "Them is an amateur, said the announce­no target date we have to ment will not be made until meet." endorsement deals are signed. When it happens, she will be 
That could be done before the the highest-paid female golfer in Samsung World Championship, the world. which starts Oct. 13, two days One deal that is nearing com­after her 16th birthday. It will pletion is with Nike, whkh is no be the eighth and final LPGA surprise. Wie has bnen playing 
its irons and golf' ball the last two years, and often wears the swoosh on her clothing. A source with knowlndge of the negotiations said the deal eould be worth anywhere from $4 million to $5 million a year. 
She also is working on a deal with an A.'iian-based electronics company that could be worth about $3 million a year. Golf' World magazine reported another possible endorsement with an airline company. 
An nika Sorenstam, the best player in women's golf, makes about $7 million a year in endorsements. No other femalo golfer is rmnotely dose. 

"Did I hear shn might mako $10 million a year'?" David Toms said Wednesday. "I'd like to got half that mueh. And I'vo won a tournamont. '' 
Early projections wern that Win eould command up to $20 million a yoar in endorsements, and her potential earnings could surpass that. But tlw family is starting slowly and eonsnrva­tively, in part bncausn Win still has two yoars left bnforo sho graduates l'unahou School in llonolulu. 
"If I was handling the strategy, it would bn a live-to night-year strat1~gy," said Stovo Laulntta, who ran Miller Brnwing's sports markoting for 10 years and now is prnsident of Omnicom's Hadiate Sports Group. "Maybe you do onn or two now, and 24 months down the road, you add anothor one or two. Not only are thoro commit.nwnts with school, but she's so young. You're intoraeting with eorpo­rato CEOs, older pnrsons. 
INNSBRUCK 
Information Meeting 
With Professor Gemot Gurtler, Director ofthe Innsbruck Program 
~onday,Sept.26,2005 
118 DEBARTOLO 7:00-8:30 pm 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud Questions?-Weber. I S@nd.edu Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 

A concert of Indian Classical Music 
featurino 
Pandit Rajan and Sajan Mishra-VOCAL accompanied by Kumar Hose -Tabla K:mta Prasad Mishra -Harmonium Rajnish & Ritcsh Mishra -Vocals Friday, September 23, 7:30 p.m. 
at tlie )iuJ.'itorium, J(esliurgli Ctnttr for lntunationa{ Stuaies, Vniversit_y of!Notre Vame 
Sponsored by: 
i)ffh't: r,f ln tt:tf.Utit'H't~ l Sn~,:!(!ll I. s~.~rv k!!!l anJ .:t. ... (11,. h 1(-: Th,e At.Jan lndt.u-1 C!.a.un.:~li !'vlu:'ilt.~ S<'r.tt.:tY 'JJ ~1lrhtnn.1 S(>Uth A~la Studk\ PrnQ;~lm. <:oUc~c nf ArH and l.l)!.lt~l'~ 
General Admission: $10 Students: Free 
Contact: Amlta.va Dutt (631··7594; 273-0928) 
..... 
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 22, 2005 

NOTRE DAME FORUM 
Thursday, September 22 @ JACC, 2-4 p.m. 
CONVOCATION 

Friday, September 23 @ JACC, 3-4:30 p.m . 
POST-INAUGURAL RECEPTION 
Friday, September 23 @the Reflecting Pool ofthe Theodore M. Hesburgh Library immediately following the Convocation 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

Thursday, September 22, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Facility 
continued from page 24 
the Warnm <;oJf Courso north­east of campus. Thn structurn, which will be 
namnd the Holl's Family All­Weather Varsity Golf Faeility, will eost a planned $2.1 million. 
Notre Dame women's golf eoaeh Debby King says the facili­ties upgrade is sorely needed. 
"We praetiee in the Lof'tus !Center! during tho winter right now," King said. "At Loftus, basi­cally all we can do is hit into a net. We ean't putt. We tried chip­ping, but it's just not the same. We're going to be able to do all parts of the game in the new facility." 
The Holfs Facility will feature a 
Saturday, September 24, 2005 
Continue The Inauguration Celebration 
0

11 :00 a.m. Start 3-Mile, 6-Mile Runs 
~ 

Stadium Tunnel & 2-Mile Fun Walk
£1~ 

~~~;~~
(!~frF'IlLI d\ 
~Jtc~ 
. 
·: '"'zoo')sff ~'h 
~ ~ 
0 ER U~~;:{, 
A Beneflt fa< 

~/~ O)~~<:~
ovarian cancer research and education~~(~~ { ~) 
N.D. Community $6.00 in advance $10.00 day of race Off campus participants $10.00 Register in Advance at RecSports Or download registration form @ recsports.nd.edu 
Advance registration ends @ 5:00 p.m. Fri., September 23 Race day check-in @ legends 
, )..-, 
T-shirts to All Finishers Awards to First-Place Finishers in 24 Divisions Student, Staff and Community Divisions 
For more information, ca/1631-6100 or visit recsports.nd.edu 
Pancake Breakfast Immediately Following 

i-' Nlsoc. 
-0 
<~-,...-==·"' 
NOTRE DAME 

Uno,Due,Tre 
(}~ ~~,.,A,ue 
3,600-foot putting green and 
chipping arna, complete with a 
sand bunker. While the surface 
will be artificial, King said that 
there are no concerns with rnal­
istic play. 
"It's artificial, but when you're 
practicing on it you can't tell," 
she said. "It has a sand base and 
when you hit a shot into it, it will 
react just like a real green." 
Adjacent to the now building, 
six covered and heated "tee sta­
tions" will be built. These rela­
tively climate controlled tee 
boxes will allow players to use 
the existing driving range in 
most types of weather. 
The "tee stations" will also be 
equipped with video devices, 
which will record players' swings 
lor later coaching and technique 
improvement. 
"We'll have three camera 
views, the rear and the two sides 
of the golfer," King said of the 
video system. "We will also have 
a teaching facility ealled the 'V-1 
Coaching System,' where we can 
look at a players swing, slow it 
down, speed it up and draw pic­
turns on it." 
Irish golfers currently video­
tape their swings, but the nll'ec­
tiveness of present methods is ·questionable. 
"We try our best Ito videotape] 
at Loftus, but obviously we can't 
get the camera angles and tho 
lighting is bad," King said. 
Using technology and video­lapP to flwus on a player's swing mechanics has been a major part of golf coaching for years. 
".Just about nvnry univnrsity has Ia video systmnl," King said. 
The new facility will also fea­ture locker rooms for both the men's and wornnn 's teams, com­pletn with plasma SITPen TVs and Internet access. The olliees for both coaching stall's will also be housed in the new building. 
King said the Holl's Facility, like the Warnm Course after il'> eom­pletion in 2000, should be a boon for Irish golf recruiting. 
"I Heeruitingl is onn of the pur­poses for building it." King said. "I think it'll be a big assnt." 
A.'i for currnnt Irish golfers, U1n women's team will travel to Bloomington, Ind., to play in thn Lady Northern Invitational this weekend. It will tlw lm their first action after a season-opening win at the Notre Damn Invitational at the Warnm Course Sept. 11. 
The mnn 's team. fresh off a fifth-place finish at the (;ophPr Invitational in Wayzata, Minn., will travel to Birmingham, Ala., this weekend for t.hn Shoal Creek Intercollegiate. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
finish out the fall sr~ason. Coaeh Mark Hamilton has
Belles 
been emphasizing the impor­tance of being mentally pre­continued from page 24 
pared to his golfers, who have The course was a challenge been taking the advice to heart. 
for all teams involved, giving "Coach has been telling us the advantage to the host that swing-wise, we're on the school, who play the course right traek, but go·Jf is a very 

everyday. Tuesday's match was the last in a "It's a matter of run of competi­knowing what to 
tions that have 
do and then doing 
left the team 
it.,
somewhat fatigued and ready to calm 
Nicole Bellino 
down and prepare 
Belles captain 
for this weekend. "We went from one tournament to a day of 
mental game," Bellino said. "It's a matter of know­ing what to do and then doing
it... The team will face all of their conforence oppo­nents again on Saturday, when they travel to Adrian for the 

practice without rest," Bellino said. "Now we have three days· of practice to get out of tourna­ment mode and get ready for Saturday." 
The primary focus of the team for these next three days will be not only to prepare for this Saturday but to make sure they are in the right position to final jamborne before the MIAA Championships. 
As long as they can maintain or improve their nine-stroke lead, the Belles will be in posi­tion to once again claim the conference title. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africa I @saintmarys.edu 

page 22 The Observer 4• SPORTS Thursday, September 22, 2005 
Awards 
continued from page 24 
conference foes DePaul and Michigan, the last team to beat Notre Dame on Alumni Field. 
Shaner said the transition to the center of the field was easy because she played there so much earlier in her career. 
"It's really not that big of a transition from what I'm used to," she said. "I was recruited as a center back. I've been shifted around the past couple years where the team needs me. 
"I really like playing there." 
Shaner displayed her affection for the position with two domi­nant games. She led the Irish defense in only surrendering three shots on goal over the weekend, which was crucial in the absence of senior goalkeeper Erika Bohn. 
She attributed the success to the entire defensive core's ability to adjust. 
"I think we know each other's style of play very well," she said. 
"And that helps us mentally. · 
When that person comes in, we have [their style of play] in mind." 
That ability to adjust allowed Shaner to deliver the standout performance for which Soccer America honored her. 
Shaner said she looked up to 2004 Irish senior Melissa Tancredi as she began her Notre Dame career and now tries to incorporate some of Tancredi's game in her own and follow in her leadership footsteps. 
"She just had such a strong presence on the field," Shaner said of Tancredi. After she ... graduated last year, we needed someone to take her role on the field. 

"[Now] I'll incorporate parts of her game into mine." 
This weekend, she did just that, shutting down two opposing offenses, and Soccer America took note. 
Shaner said that the national honor is especially meaningful from a defensive player's point of view. 
"It's very tough to get that 

recognition from a defensive spot," she said. "Defimders aren't your goal scorers and in the limelight that much." 
This is not the case for Thorlakson. 
It was the fifth time in Thorlakson's four years at Notre Dame that she won the confer­ence's top weekly honor. After a dominating, eight-point (2G-4A) weekend in the matches against DePaul and Michigan, Thorlakson is now just one play­er-of-the-week award away from tying Seton Hall alumna Kelly Smith's for first all time. 
Thorlakson said that she does­n't think about setting records, but rather trying to get wins. 
"I had always thought of myself as an impact player," Thorlakson said. "But coming to Notre Dame opened my eyes, and there was a huge learning process I had to go through before I could become the type of player I am today." 
Thorlakson scored two goals and had two assists in the Irish's 6-0 victory over DePaul Friday. She added two assists Sunday against the Wolverines. 
This weekend marked the sec­ond time Thorlakson won the honor this year alone -doing so in both of the Irish's home week­ends. 
"I feel very comfortable playing at home," she said. 'The atmos­phere of Notre Dame is unex­plainable." 
Her previous award this year came the same week she won the most valuable offensive play­er award in the Inn at Saint Mary's Notre Dame Classic. 
Thorlakson, a member of he Canadian National Team, has been one of the premier all­around offensive players in the last two years. Over that span, she has scored 98 points in 35 games, and she is the only player in the country to be in the top-20 in both assists and goals this year. 
She leads the nation with 12 assists and is fifth with eight goals. 
Her ability to log both goals and assists is rare in Division I; only two other players have accumulated at least seven goals and assists this year. 
What's more, her distribution of goals and assists has been remarkably equal. In the past two seasons, she has had 31 goals and 35 assists. 
Though her stats are similar to last year's, Thorlakson says that the season has been different. 
"I think playing this year from last year for me has been differ­ent," she said. "[But] I wouldn't say better or worse. Last year was unbelievable, but I have a lot of high expectations for myself and the team this year too." 
She said that the team's younger stars have changed the environment in which she plays. 
"This year, the spotlight isn't as much on me with players like [freshman forward Kerri] Hanks and [sophomore forward Amanda] Cinalli around me." 
Shaner, Thorlakson and the rest of the Irish resume confer­ence play this weekend with a home game against Cincinnati Friday and a visit to Louisville Sunday. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles to host match against Manchester 
Senior Shelly Bender

By RYAN KIEFER 
anchored the Belles defense in 

Sports Writer 
the middle, scoring a crucial block-kill late in the fifth game. 

Saint Mary's will look to even 
Junior outside attacker

its record tonight when it steps Kristin Playko led the attack for 
out of conference to face the 
the Belles. She scored a kill for

Manchester College Spartans 
the 14th point in the fifth game

(2-9). 
after getting blocked twice ear­

·The non-conference contest lier in the point. Her persist­
comes in the middle of a busy ence showed a fire and deter­
week for the Belles. Tonight's mination that had been absentmatch will be the second of four from the Belles in previous loss­critical home games this week. 
es.

The Belles (6-7, 1-2 MIAA) The Belles could be heard
defeated Kalamazoo College 
chanting "Our game!'' during a

Tuesday in a five-game classic. 
timeout in the fifth game. And

The win was the second in a 
Schroeder-Biek recognized her row for the Belles. Both match­team's toughness. 

es went five games. 
"We played to win," she said.

Belles Coach Julie-Schroeder 
"We stayed aggressive. That

Biek said solid play from her was very important for us." 
experienced players propelled The Belles will face Calvinthe Belles to Tuesday's win. 
and Alma, the MIAA's top two

"Our upperclassmen showed 
great leadership," she said fol­lowing the match. "They set a  teams from last season, Saturday  on  
standard for our whole team to  Contact Ryan Kiefer at  
follow."  rkiefer@nd.edu  

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
4 and 5 bedrooms on 3 levels of living all including: 
• Dishwashers 
• Washers and Dryers 
• ADT Security Systems 
*NEW MANAGEMENT SPECIAL* 
Only $210 Per Person For the first 10 Apartments Leased for the 06-07 School Year 
574-233-5704 or Nicole_Soko@hotmai l.com 

and getting the long flight out "We take pride in beating ·of your system is actually a [opposing teams] there and good thing." silencing the crowd," 
continued from page 24 

Weis did not blame last Zbikowski said. 
week's loss on home-game Weis is pleased with the wrong," Weis said Wndnesday traditions such as the pep ability for players to gel and at his press conference. "[But] rally, the Friday luncheon or concentrate on the game while I think at this point we're the throng of fans on campus. on road, especially compared starting to get used to playing However, he does believe it to his days as an assistant in on the road." might be more peaceful on the the NFL. 
The Irish will leave road, when fewer distractions "As soon as you get to the Thursday evening and arrive are present .and more time is hotel, there's limos waiting for in Seattle late Thursday night available for players to focus [the NFL players] to take them for Saturday afternoon's game on the game. out for dinner or to go hit the with Washington. 'This team has shown a very golf course," Weis said. "Our 
"Although we're getting out strong bond on the road," guys get there, we go to the there late, I'll let [the players] Weis said. hotel, we go to meetings, we sleep in some," Weis said. This bond might be due to go to dinner. Really there's a "That allows us some meeting the extra time spent together lot less distractions in college time and we'll go over to the on long bus rides or rooming because everyone's focused on stadium so they can get accli­together in hotels. just getting ready to play the mated there. We'll go out and But Irish strong safety Tom game. It's really a nice thing." do a pre-game warm up just Zbikowski attributes the team to break a sweat. being 2-0 on the road this sea­Contact Mike Gilloon at 
"I think getting out there son to something else. mgilloon@nd.edu 
~··············································~ 
: University Resources : for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
. 
...: ·.· ... ,. •••• ••• • •• • ••• •• •liCOiiP,ll!TTC:!!t OM 
e $A'V ANO l..:Sl!liAN 
• :5:ruoe:N1' fll.e.e:tll:s 

Tlte Standing Committee on Gay and 
• 

L{~sbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
• 

Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 
304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at 1-9704 
U1t1iversity Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) • Contact: Dr. Maureen Laffert_v at La.fferty.3@nd.edu 
For more infom1ation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 
• 

................................................~ 
r-------------------------------------------------·------------------------------------~~ 
Thursday, September 22, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Home of Pukaskwa
1 Minuteman. 
National Park

e.g.: Abbr. 28 Baltic land: Abbr. 
5 Windows may have them, 
29 Gertrude _, 1988 Medicine briefly Nobelist8 -Seltzer 

31 The writer Saki's 12 Massenet opera 
real name 14 Speed: Abbr. 33 Rock's Brian 
15 Northern Indians 34 Flashy jewelry, informally
16 Father Junipero 36 Stick in the water
17 New pedometer 39 Awards for reading Edward Albee 
18 Shots at a 41 Improveddentist's office 43 Chinese tea 
19 "All God's 46 Busy
Children Need Traveling 49 "You're All Shoes" writer Got Tonight" 50 Mini poodles
21 Caesar salad and toy terriers 
base 52 Follows
23 Masseur's dentists' orders command 54 One passing a24 Pant 
course with 25 French pronoun flying colors? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
55 Coercers 56 Teacher's summons 57 Hugs, symbolically 59 Big Band musician Shaw 60 Measured on 
foot 61 Env. contents 62 Intolerant type 63 Fr. holy women 64 D-Day carrier: 
Abbr. 65 D-Con target 
DOWN 1 "Not true!" 2 Bedspread 
fabric 3 Enters abruptly 4 Stuck 5 Line on a 
money order 6 U.S.N. rank 
7 Near future a Pianist Claudio 9 Be a go-
between 
10 "A Tract on Monetary Reform" author 
13 Place for chaps in chaps 15 English breed of sheep 20 Have 
22 Certain NASA equipment ... shown literally in the solution to this puzzle 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have l'ound The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

27 Plain folk  37 Clear liqueur  47 Push  
30 Tic-tac-toe winner  38 Musings 40 Ousted  48 Day-_ 51 Damon  
32 Oueenside castle, in chess notation 34 "You got it!" 35 "Time to get started"  41 "Way to go!" 42 Split, e.g. 43 Holds 44 Attack 45 Not together  Runyon characters 53 Annul 58 Exciting periods, for short  

For answers, call 1-900-289-CLUE (289-2583), $1.20 a 
minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5550. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make .checks payable to: and mail to: 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BOINS 

I I I t J 
02005 Tribune Media Serv1ces, Inc. 
c;'i~fl 

TANNIE WHEN THe KITc:.I-IEN 
HeLP FELL BEHIND,
I I· I 
www.Jumble.com 
THe CHEF WA?--­


-

GLUBIN j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as

I I ( [ J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print~here: 'I I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: JULEP PATIO BUSHEL TOUCHYSaturday's I 
Answer: How she felt when her cobbler recipe won the blue ribbon--JUST "PEACHY" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Joseph Ma.!.Zdlo. 22; Nicok Richie. 24; Faith llill, 38; Ricki Lake, 37 llappy nirthday: Stay on top of things this year. If you kt down your guard. chaos will erupt. Love and romance is looking hot, so don't hesitate to renew your vows if you arc married, commit to someone you low or look I(Jr a new love. You will have a chance to do something ofa serious nature that will impress others. Your numbers arc I, H. 22, 2H, 33. 3 7 AI~IES (March 21-Aprill9): Think ahout the consequences bci(Jrc you make a move that is questionable. Partnership problems can be resolved. You ar•· thinking in extremes, and that will backfire in the long term. '** TAlJIUJS (April 20-May 20): Don't kt emotional matters escalate. Stay calm; don't believe everything you hear. Don'l make a decision based on half-truths and innuendos. Focus on your own advancement. ••• GEMINI (M:I)" 21-.Junc 20): Money matters will be on your mind. Make cbnstructive changes. Minor mishaps or accidents arc likely if you arc confused ahout something. l'roblcms with your boss or an authority ligurc will spin out of control if you retaliate. ••• CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Consider the pros and cons of making a change. Ask smm;one with more experience to lend you a hand. You have the credentials and the talent to·do much better if you arc willing to take a chance and mow on. 
*lll** 

LEO (.July 23-Au~. 22): Do what you canto clear your backlog and I(Jcus on what you can do to ensure advancement. Think big and you will impress CVCI)'onc. A little love problem is likely to develop. lk carclul. •• VIRGO (Au~. 23-Sept. 22): An opportunity to find true love or to make the relationship you are in even better must be taken. A short romantic trip or time spent doing something special will pay off. An idea you have can turn out to be quite lucrative. ***** LIIJRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may be thinking on a big scale today, but don't be impulsive about dishing out the cash. Refrain lrom kiting others spend your money or take advantage of you. Focus on work-related projects that can bring you advancement or recognition. *** SCOIU>I() (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Keep your thoughts to yourself and don't let anyone coerce you into doing something you don't feel good about. Private infonnation should be kept that way. A slip of the tongue will lead to arguments and bad feelings. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-l>cc. 21 ): Getting along with your peers will be hall the baiLie. Don't expect to feel good if you overindulge. A chance to get ahead is present if you arc willing to give 200 percent. Time spent on ferreting out information will be well worth it. *** CAI,RICORN (llec. 22-.Jan. 19): All that's required is a little extra time ami patience <md you can be the one evetyone looks up to. Tmvcllooks very promising from many different standpoints. 13usincss mixed with plea~urc can be your guide to sealing a deal. ••••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fch. Ill): You have to look out I(Jr your own interests. Someone you least expect is probably causing more trouble I(Jr you than you realize. You should probably start to question some of the relationships you have.** I>ISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need a break. Take a short pleasure trip and you will discover things about yourself you didn't know. Love and romance arc in a high cycle. Be creative and you will danle everyone you come in contact with.**** Hirthday Baby: You arc full of hope, desire and all it takes to be succcssfitl. You arc a participant who is thoughtful, aggressive and to the point. You thrive on accomplishment. 
EuRenia's Weh sites: ustroadvice.comfhrfun, eugenialust.com.fhr cm~/identiul consultation.\' 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enc1osed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _________________________________________________________ City _______ State _______ Zip_________ 
THE ()BSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 22, 2005 
page 24 
FooTBALL 
One more Saturday night 
Irish hit the road for the third time in four games this weekend 
By MIKE GILLOON Associate Sports Editor 
By the time Notre Dame hosts USC on Oet. 15, the Irish will have played five games ­four coming on the road. Though this year's unorthodox schedule could be a problem, Irish eoach Charlie Weis believes its developed into a posi­tive for his team. 

Weis

"Hey, want to play every game at home now don't get me 
see ROAD/page 22 


GOLF 
Golf team eager for facilities 
Men Is and women Is teams will improve in indoor practice center 
By CHRlS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame golf is moving into the 21st Century. 
Thanks to a generous gift from Robert and Marilyn Rolfs, the Irish men's and women's golf teams will soon have a state-of­the-art indoor practice facility for usc during snowy South -Bend winters. 
The building, which is expect­ed to be completed by next fall, will be located at the corner of Douglas and Ivy Roads -next to 
see FACILITY/page 21 

SMC GOLF 
Saint Mary's holds MIAA lead, Olivet looking on 
aren't sitting quite as comfort­Hope College finished the 18-first match one week ago, Saint margin. Olivet's victory on
Belles head to Adrian 
ably as they were three days hole round with a team score of Mary's claimed the top prize, Tuesday cut that margin to nine for final jamboree of ago. 351. overcoming second place Olivet strokes. Senior and co-captain In their second conference Albion and Alma rounded out by 1 7 strokes. Nicole Bellino commented on
the 2005 fall season matchup of the year, the Belles the top five with equal scores of However, yesterday was the the team's position for the rest fell to conference competitors 365. But it was Olivet that took second time this fall that Olivet of the fall. Olivet College, who finished home top honors for the day, came out on top, the first being "We're still up by eight over­
By ANNA FRICANO 
eight strokes ahead of Saint finishing with the low score, at the first event of the year, a all in the conference," Bellino
Sports Writer 
Mary's on Tuesday. 338. competition that did not affect said. "I But] it's not as big of a Several strong performances The event was one of three the conference standings in any cushion as we would have The Saint Mary's golf team is by the Belle~ were enough to conference matches that take way. After winning the first liked." 
still hanging on to the No. 1 earn the team an overall score place before 1he MIAA champi­conference match, Saint Mary's 
spot in the MIAA, but the Belles of 346. Third place finisher onship on Oct. 7 and 8. In the had captured the 17-stroke see BELLES/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Thorlakson,Shanerhonored 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Awards abound for the Irish this week. 
Junior defender Christie Shaner was named to Soccer America's national team of the week, and senior forward Katie Thorlakson took home the Big East player-of-the-week award. 
After moving back to center defender where she spent most of the 2003 season, Shaner acted as more than a stop-gap for injured junior Kim Lorenzen. Shaner led the Irish to a shutout weekend, as the team blanked 
see AWARDS/page 22 


MEN'S BASKETBALl -RECRUITING 
Brey inks recruit, his second of the season 
Tory Jackson will join the Irish in '06, adds depth at point guard 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Michigan high school point guard Tory Jackson has become Notre Dame's second verbal commitment for the recruiting class of 2006, according to reports on recruit­ing sites Hivals.com and Scout.com. and a Wednesday article in the South Bend Tribune. 
Jackson, a 5-foot-10, 190­pound guard, is ranked No. 95 on the top 100 prep seniors list on Rivals.com after averaging 
30 points, nine assists, e i g h t rebounds and four steals in his junior season at Buena Vista High School in Saginaw, Mich. In an 

anticipated smaller recruiting 
seeJACKSON/page 19 


HIGH SCHOOL 
lPGA 
NBA 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
NFL 
MLB
LLI 

c.,:) The cause of death is 
Michelle Wie plans to 
Hornets will play 35 

Freshman quarterback 
Peyton Manning and 
Yankees 2 

z still unknown for the 
turn pro before her 16th 
games in Ol<lahoma 

Taylor Bennett may start 
the Colts' offense are 
Orioles 1 

Cathedral High School 
birthday. The amateur is 
City this season, as New 

for Georgia Tech this 
looking to get on track 
Randy Johnson gives 
::5 

football player who 
already experienced 
Orleans continues to 

weekend against 
this weekend as 
up three hits in eight

died in practice Tuesday 
playing against top 
rebuild after Hurricane 

Virginia Tech. 
Manning has only 
innings, and Matt
c:c 
in Indianapolis. 
players. 
Katrina. 

thrown for two scores 
Lawton homers for the 
this season. 
Yankees.
!; 

page 19 
page 19 

page 15
page 18 

page 17 
page 14

Cl.) 




