
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 77 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26.2005 

NDSP hosts open house for public 

By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
Notrl' Dame Security/l'olict1 (NIJSI'I wolconwd the public Ttwsday morning to an open house for their nnw !wad­quarters. llarnmns Mowbray llall, Thn headquarters, whirh also houses the new post oiTicn, is ilH~atnd across from t:tarllwr llall at tlw cor­nnr of lloly Cross and St. 
Joseph Drives. 
Though the open house was Tuesday. the new NDSP headquarters has been fully operational since Jan. 4. This opening culminated a throe-year process. as the initial plans for Hammes Mowbray wnro made in early 2002. Though tho fo u nda­tions of tho building were 
placed  in  the  summer  of  
2002,  the  poor  economy  
see NDSP/page 4  

The new dispatch center has a phone system integrated Into touch screens and is completely run by computers. 
P.E. requirement promotes wellness, education 
NO encourages fitness for life tlzrouglz classes 
By JULIE BENDER 
Nt•ws Writer 
Upon high school graduation, many students breathe a sigh of relief that their days of dodge hall, mat hall and four square arn behind thnm. No more snwlly locker rooms, teachers blowing whistles or misdirected halls whizzing through tho air. 
However, for tho freshman coming to Notre Dame, the thrnat of onn morn year of phys­ical nducation still looms. Although this could be a night­mare for anyone who has over had tlw surface of a baskntball imprint11d onto his or hnr fore­lwad, most students lind the I'.E. n1quin1nwnt to be a fun, if not rewarding, addition to their education. 
"Notn1 Dame values the edu­mtion of tlw total student." said Tom Kelly. chairman of the physical education d11partmont at Not.r11 Damn. "As our mission statnnwnt said, we believe in educating tho wholn pnrson: mind, body and spirit." 
Students am mquirnd to take 
see P. E./page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Graduation speaker unknown 
By ]EN ROWLING 
News Writer 
Univnrsity ollidals am in thn procnss of choosing a candidatn to address tlw Class of 2005 as this year's eo m nw ru~n nw n I. spnak11r. 
Outgoing Univnrsity PrPsidmJt Fatlwr Edward Malloy will not. bn tho prindpal spnaknr at this year's graduation enrnmony, said D1~nnis Brown, associatn director of Nows and Information. Tho prosidonl. tra­ditionally dnlivnrs his own snp­arato addrnss at nach eom­moncenwnt. 
This dneision mirrors that mado with Notre Damn's last outgoing prnsidnnt. In 19H9, thnn-Prnsidnnt Father Theodorn llnsburgh did not deliver thn commnneemnnt address. l'ntnr U1~berroth. thn 19H4 Time Magazinn "Man of the Year," gavn thn spnnch. 
Ueberroth was a public ligurn in lnadership aft1~r organizing the 19H4 Olympics -which were at the time tho most prof­itable in history -and serving from 19H4-H9 as the commis­sioner of Major League Baseball. 
In 2001, President Gnorgo W. Bush delivered the graduation speech. In the following thrnn years, a variety of individuals from diverse backgrounds worn selectnd to give tho eommnnco­mont address. 
Tim Hussnrt, moderator of NBC's "Ment tho l'n1ss," spoke to thn class of 2002. Senator Hiehard Lugar, Chairman of the Senatn Fornign Hnlations Committen and Indiana Snnator sineo 1976, addressnd tho dass of 2003. Most rneently, Minnesota Suprome Court Justice Alan Pagn, a 1W>7 Notre 
see SPEAKER/page 6 

Notre DaiTie to host career fair 
Winter Career and Internship Fair to bring almost 150 representatives 
Students who attend the According to Hoes, Notre
By PETER LEAHY 
fair will havo tho ehanen to Dame tops schools like 
News Writt·r 
spnak with any ropresnnta­Stanford, Duke, University of tive from the almost 150 California. Berhlny and Yale Notrn Damn is hosting its eompanins attending. in terms of the employers it annual Winter Carenr and Anita Hens, coordinator of attraets to eampus for tho 
lntPrnship Fair today from 4-tho nvent. said students fair. Notrn Dame is an H p.m. in thn .Joyen Cnntor should take advantagn of the appnaling cite for employersfiPid housP. This PVPnt is 
opportunity to got a hnad to snnd rnprnsentativns. she clPsigrwd to providP stud1111ts start on thnir earners. said. with opportunitiPs to talk to " II oro c a n1 or fairs a r o "Employers have narrowed r.-prPsPntativPs from eompa­important lwcausn studnnts thn list of schools at which 
ni.-s in a piPthora of finlds. can gl't nxposure to employ­they recruit, and wn'rn at the Sponsornd hy thn Caronr ers that other schools can top of thn Iist," Heos said. Cn 11 t P r. l h n Wi 11 t n r Ca I'IH~ r gd." shn said. "It's a trmnen­"That's exciting and NotrH llltl'rnship Fair is frnn of cost dous opportunity for explor­Damn studnnts are very 
l.o studonts from Notrn Damn, ing those companins and a attractive Ito employers!." 
Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and trnmnndous learning otlwr local univPrsitins. see FAIR/page 4 
avenun. 


Wednesday, January 26, 2005 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Lovin' my ride 
When I officially found out I would be returning to school this semester with a car I was stoked. My grandpa, no longer able to drive, very gener­ously offered me his wheels and, 

never having  
owned my own  Megan O'Neil  
vehicle before, a  
new sense of  
independence  Assistant  
crept over me.  News Editor  
No more would  
I have to phone  
Saint Mary's  

security for a ride back to campus 
after a long night at The Observer 
office. Never again would I have to 
wait for a cab on a Friday night if I 
didn't want to. 
I envisioned myself making efficient trips to the mall and to Meijer with­out the embarrassment of having to bum a ride off a friend. I saw myself cruising the streets of South Bend and Mishawaka, windows down, music pumping, a gentle breeze giv­ing my hair that super cute tousled look. 

The fact that my newly acquired . car, a white 1994 Chevrolet Lumina, is more suitable to be featured on MTV's "Pimp My Ride" than found in a superstar's garage on "Cribs" did not curb my excitement in the least. 
During the first week back at school, and on the first day of a new off-campus internship, I woke up early, dressed, grabbed my keys and headed for the parking lot. 
I arrived only to discover my car blanketed by three inches of snow and the doors all frozen shut. A secu­rity officer helped me pry the driver's side open and then left me to scrape the windows. 
My technique must have been terri­ble because all the snow that I brushed off the car seemed to end up on me. My hands and feet, accus­tomed to the mild weather of California, were freezing within five minutes. And my hair, dampened by the falling snow and frizzed by my wool coat, resembled an ungroomed poodle. 
The disillusioning morning contin­ued as I pulled out of the parking lot onto the white powdered road. Having driven for a couple of years in very heavy traffic, I rarely get fazed behind the wheel. This, however, was something completely different. 
I made my way down Douglas Road at a speed my grandpa would have approved of, 10 mph below the limit. My windshield wipers refused to cooperate, adding dirty wet streaks to an already fogged window. The snow covered the painted dividing lines so I suspect I drove right down the middle of two lanes. A couple of cars began to line up behind me, clearly impatient to pass me by. I just gripped the steering wheel all the tighter and proceeded to crawl along all the way to work. 
When I finally reached my destina­tion, 10 minutes late, all of my car­owning fantasies had completely dis­sipated. I tossed my keys down on my desk with relief, albeit temporary, and wished I didn't have to pick them up again until spring. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How ARE YOU COPING WITHOUT THE SAINT MARY'S TUNNELS? 
Biz Stonl  Cate Cetta  Jana Blake  Kim Abeel  Maggie Harrigan  Renee Woodward  
Le Mans Hall  LeMans Hall  Le Mans Hall  Le Mans Hall  Le Mans Hall  Le Mans Hall  
"It was one of the main reasons I came here and thus  "So much for making a home at the library this semester.,,  "It makes it virtually impossible to sneak boys in. ,,  'Tmfrom way North ofhere so rm used to the cold weather. ,,  'Tm not, I just refuse to go to class ifit's below so.,  7 just throw on my Uggs and ,,go.  

it's closing has made me decide to transfer. , 

CLAIRE KELLYffhe Observer Two members of the Student Players rehearse Tuesday for "Bent" in Washington 
Hall. The production will take place Thursday and Friday at 7:30 p.m. Another play, 
"Stop Kiss," will be performed tonight and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. 
OFFBEAT 

Man sells forehead space to advertisers 
OMAHA, Neb. -A Web-page designer who auctioned off the use of his forehead for advertis­ing space is letting it go to his head. 
Andrew Fischer, 20, of Omaha, who put his fore­head for sale on eBay as advertising space, received $ 37, 3 7 5 on Friday to advertise the snoring remedy, SnoreStop. 
Fischer will display the SnoreStop logo on his forehead for one month. 
"I look forward to an enjoyable association with Andrew -a man who clearly has a head for business in every sense of the word," SnoreStop CEO Christian de Rive! said. 
"People will always comment on something out of the ordinary," Fischer said in his sales pitch. "People like weird." 
Robber calls victim and requests date 
NEW CASTLE, Del. ­Police say a man involved in the recent robbery of a Domino's Pizza delivery woman would be a good candidate for "World's Dumbest Criminal." 
Police say that after two men robbed the woman, one of them called the vic­
tim on his cell phone to apologize -and to ask her out on a date. 
The victim, 18, declined the request, instead giving the cell phone number to police, who arrested Brent Brown, 25, on Thursday. 
Police also arrested Andre Moore, 18, and 
were  looking for  a  16­ 
year-old  linked  to  the  
crime.  

Officers searched a resi­dence and found the pizza boxes in the trash can with the original receipt still attached. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
LLI 

:::c 
~ 

LLI 
==.... 
c( (J 






0 
HIGH 30 HIGH HIGH HIGH
..... 
LOW 17 LOW LOW LOW 
16 12 
20 8 
32 24 
IN BRIEF 
The Student Film Festival wraps up today with showings at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. at the Browning Cinema in the Performing Arts Center. The fes­tival is sponsored by the Department of Film, Television and Theater and features 18 short student produced films. 
Campus Ministry will sponsor "Prayer From Around the World" from 7 to 8 p.m. today in 330 Coleman-Morse Center. 
AcoustiCafe, sponsored by the Student Union Board, will take place tonight from 10 p.m. to midnight in the La Fortune base­ment. 
The Career Center is sponsor­ing its annual Winter Career and Internship Fair in the Joyce Center from 4 to 8 p.m. today. The event is open to students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's; Holy Cross College and other area colleges and universities. It is preceded by a diversity recep­tion from noon to 2:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center's Monogram Room. 
The Notre Dame women's ten­nis team faces the University of Michigan today at 4:00 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
SUNY Plattsburg professor Anna Battigelli will present a lec­tured titled "After the English Revolution: John Dryden, Roman Catholicism, and the Language of Providential Design." Sponsored by the Erasmus institute the lecture will take place today at 4:30 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

35 40 28 31 


Atlanta 40 I 26 Boston 21 I 10 Chicago 23 I 15 Denver 62 I 34 Houston 58 I 35 Los Angeles 73 155 Minneapolis 22 1 11 New York 22 I 11 Philadelphia 28 I 12 Phoenix 7 4 I 52 Seattle 57 I 48 St. Louis 30 I 23 Tampa 64 139 Washington 30 1 18 
Wednesday, January 26, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Alu111ni Association to honor four alu111s 
Special to the Observer 
l;our Notrn llamn graduates will rPrPiVI' SJJPrial awards rrom till' NotrP DamP Alumni Association during on-1~arnpus CPrl'nWnii'S l;riday. 
+ 
l'aul J. Knlly .Jr.. a IIJ(J;{ gradual!~ and U.S. Tenth Cirruil Court ol' Appnals judge, w iII rP!'P i VI' th n 2 00 !i Hev. John .1. Cavanaugh, C.S.C .. Award. givPn annually to a graduate in n~cognilion ol' dis­tinguislwd public snrvirn. 

Knlly was a nwmbnr ol' thn N I' w M0 X i (' 0 II () II s (~ 0 f llnprPsPntativns l'rom ltJ77 to I'JX I. lin lwlpnd nstablish New Mnxiro's public ddnndnr pro­gram l'or indignnt dnfnndants and snrvPd on the New Mnxico Board ol' Bar Examiners and tlw Nnw Mexico Publie llnl'nndnr Board. 

+ 
l;rederic Syburg, who rncnivnd his maste'r's degren l'rom Notre llame in IIJ62 and taught for 1warly four dncades in tlw departnwnt of' l'ilm, tnln­vision and tlwatrn. will receive tlw 200!i Hnv. Arthur S. llarvny. <:.S.C., Award for out­standing acromplishnwnts in tlw performing arts. 


Syhurg taught from 1%4-9:~ and dinwtPd sonw !iO student produl'lions including "The lmportan1~n of Being Errwst," "Maclwth," "Tiw Tnmpnst," "Amadeus" and "Arms and tho 
Man." lin was a mnmbnr of tlw National Catholic: Tlwatre Confnrnn1~e and servnd as the first vire-chainnan of the hon­orary dramatic fraternity. Alpha Camma Omega. An acromplislwd aelor. Syburg performed in many Notrn Damn and South Bond Civic Tlwator prod uetions. 
+ John David Moonny, a 1963 graduate and accomplished sculptor, will receive tho Hnv. Anthony .1. Laud, C.S.C., Award for outstanding accom­plishments in lirw art. 
Mooney is the foundnr and d i r netor o I' t h n .I o h n David Mooney Foundation, a non­profit educational organiza­tion founded in liJI\0 to dcvnl­op and promote public art as a relevant and enriching !'oren in society. In an effort to showcase art outside of muse­ums, he has created large pieces encompassing architec­turn and landscape for such clients as the Vatican Observatory, former British Prinw Minister .John Major, tho Maltose govornmont and IBM in Chicago. 
+ Samuel llazo, a I949 gradu­ato and rounder and director of' tho International Poetry Forum in Pittsburgh, will reenivo tho Hov. Hobort F. CriiTin, C.S.C., Award ror dis­tinguislwd achiovoments in writing. 
Prof authors book on building vvorld peace 
Special w the Observer 
For 2!i yoars, .John Paul l.ndnrarh has trawled to aroas or l.lw world wlwm eonllict is a way or lifo -Nortlwrn lroland, Nicaragua. Somalia, tlw l'hilippilws and PlsowhPn~ -to provid1~ eondliation training and dirc•ct nwdiaiion. lin snos his work as a rPiigious vor.ation that is both a h~anwd skill and an art. 
In his rww hook, "Tho Moral Imagination: Tho Art and Soul ol' Building P1meo," Lodoraeh, a pro­fossor at tho Univorsity of Notre Damn. considors his own 1:alling and tlw spirituality that moves ordinary poopln to rejeet violence and sook roeoneiliation. Tho moral imagination, lw writos, is "tho capacity to imagine some­thing rootod in Uw challenges of tho real world, yet capable ol' ~-,Tiv­ing birth to that which dons not yet oxist." 
Belles long for tunnels, brave cold 

By NICOLE ZOOK A1sitant News Editor 
The heavy snows and sub­
zoro temperatures ol' the past 
two wonks have made Saint 
Mary's students miss tho old 
underground tunnels more 
than evor. 
The tunnels. which connected 
ovor hall' the buildings on the 
College's campus, allowed stu­
dents and faculty to travel 
underground during inclement 
woathor and at night. Tho 
College closed the tunnels 
indefinitoly on Dec. I1\., citing -insuraneo reasons. The closure has pushed stu­dents outside and into the snow. 
"I think it's definitely an 
inconvenience when tho weath­
er conditions are poor or it's 
lato at night when you'ro going 
to Holy Cross or even just the 
library, when you havn to walk 
all tho way around," sopho­
more Katie Whalon said. 
Students in tho far rosidenee 
halls ol' Hegina and lloly Cross 
lind themselves facing the cold 
every day as they trek to tho 
dining hall, Cushwa-Leighton 
Library, Madeleva and science 
llalls for dassos. 
Mauroen MacDonald, who 
works at the Hogina front desk, 
said she has noticed an 
increase in trallie through the 
hall now that the tunnnls are 
dosed. · 
"Thero are definitely more 
pnople coming in tho front door, 
especially at night when people 
are coming back and li1rth from 
the library," she said. "Tiw 
library from Hngina is a further 
distance from any other build­
ing except I Ioly Cross." 
MacDonald, a senior, used tlw 
tunnels on a regular basis until 
December. This semester, sho 
has changed her habits accord­
ingly. 
"I don't go to LnMans as 
much to visit my friends them," 
she said. "Especially when I 
used to do it during tho night­
time-I don't do that as mueh 
anymore. I used the tunnels a 
lot, so I rna.lly miss thom." 

Whalen. a I-11Mans resident. . said while the tunnels' eontri­
bution to campus safety was an 
asset to Saint Mary's, she does 
not avoid leaving her hall just 
boeause she cannot walk 
underground. 
"It was a strong benelit to be 
able to use the tunnols." she 
said. "But not having thmn has­
n't stopped me from doing the 
things I need to do. It doesn't stop me from visiting my l'rimuls in lloly Cross." 

Many students pass through LeMans llall, the most. central building on 1:ampus, en route to tlwir destinations. Bnr.ause tlw tunnels are ina,:cessibln, tlw side door to l.nMans is now open latnr to aecommodatn stu­dent tral'lie. Thn door. whil'h pmviously dosed at 6 p.m.. can be aceessed with a detnx card until I 0 p.m. 
"II' you weren't abiP to do that, it would bn a lot crazi1~r." said sonior Sarah K1~llnlwr, a LnMans front desk worknr. 
Kellnlwr and otlwr front desk workers said they havn notie11d an inemaso of' li10d ddivnrins to tlw rnsidenen halls in cold woathor. 
"I think tho tunnels lwing dosed and llaggar being dosPd have an nll'nct on it," Knllnlwr said. 
Sncurity escorting sprviens have also SIHHl an inernas1~ since thn tunnnls WPrn sealPd. Saint Mary's Security oiTPrs a van to osmrt studnnts lhnn tlw parking lots to tlwir halls from 7 p.m. to I a.m. Studnnts ean call at. any t.imo t.lw van is not. 
running  to  havn  an  ol'firPr  
eseort thnm.  
Snc uri ty  ol'fi en r  Mari ta  

l•:nglish. who drives the van oeeasionally, said sncurity usu­ally reeeiv1~s betwmm 20 and :~0 ealls per night from girls n~qunsting rides. 
"It. depends on tho wnatlwr." shn said. "Sonw of tho girls know that tho van makns eir­dos around campus at. night, so thoy don't call, and then again sonw of thn girls ~~all as soon as they got on campus." · 
English nlso said both the location of' requests and num­bnr of calls have changnd recently, nspecially on pnak nights Thursday and Sunday. 
"There arn a lot moro that gnt rides -it's not from tho lots, it's from building to building bnr.ausn the girls used t.o usn tlw tumwls to gnt. lhnn building to building," shn said. "Wlwn it's eold out. wo get a lot !of callsI from tlw parking lots." 
1\nglish agrood with tlw stu­dents that thn tunrwls "wnrP conveninnt" and said slw l'nnls tlw snntinwnt l'rom tlw 1111~jority ol' thn campus is tlwy an• sornly missed. 
''I've had a lot ol' girls say l.lwy just wish tlw tunnPis wPrP back up." 




WANTED: 
FREE TICKETS TO THE 2005 KEENAN REVUE 
TICKET DISTRIBUTION 
THE GOOD; THE BAD.
(NOTE: TICKETS ARE FREE!} 
THE R~VUE:


FRIDAY, JANUARY 28 
KEENAN GOES WEST 
*** 

NOTRE DAME STUDENTS: GATE 10 OF THE JACC. 2•3 PM THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 3 

FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 4
SAINT MARY·s STUDENTS: O'LAUGHLJN AUDITOil.IUM, NOON·l PM SATURDAY. FEBRUARY 5 
*BRING YOUR STUDENT I.D.* ALL SHOWS START AT ?:30 PM AT SMC"S o·LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM
EACH I.D. IS GOOD FOR TWO TICKETS MAX. TWO J.D.'S PER STUDENT 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

forced thn University to halt construction projects until December 2003. 
"When we found that we would get to help plan a new headquarters, we looked at new law enforcement 

facilities "The dispatch is seminar class­
advertising, sports casting, 
throughout the room are located 
journalism, public relations
the heart ofwhat

Chicago and on the third 
affairs and health care," she 
we do. This area is

Michigan area," floor. Regular 
said. "We have employers in 
NDSP Director completely classes from dif­
communications and sports
Hex Rakow said. ferent depart­
publishing."
computer-run. The 

"We interviewed ments are now 
A variety of corporations
phones are

people about held in Hammes 
will have representatives at 
what they liked integrated into Mowbray. 
the fair, including UBS, 
Arnold Worldwide and Hill
and what touch screens, "I had phys. 
worked. The ed. in the old 
Holiday. 
new facility is NDSP building, 
Additionally, the Central 
very functional. Rex Rakow and this is so 
Intelligence Agency, 
It came out well NDSP Director much nicer. It 
Abercrombie & Fitch, 
for us because as the final users, we were able to help the architects plan what would work." 
NDSP utilizes the first three floors of the building. The first floor features a lobby with an ATM for safe nighttime use and a recep­tion area, The parking and traffic division is also located in this front area. NDSP's dispatch area is located in back. 
"The dispatch is the heart of what we do. This area is completely computer-run. The phones are integrated into touch screens," Rakow said. "We usually have one or two 

men working dis­"This is a terrific chairs that are patch, but that designed to be
addition to

doubles on foot­foldable so that 
campus. NDSP

ball weekends." physical classes The first floor deserves a good can also be held also has sally there. NDSP
home, and it is a 

ports, which are makes free fin­
pleasure to see it

garages used to gerprint sets for hold drunk driv­in its finished anyone who ers' cars. There form., requests them. is a holding room About 1,200 and a breatha­sets of prints lyzer for intoxi­Father Mark Poorman are made each 
cated drivers. VP for Student Affairs year, mostly in 
The adminis­tration wing is located on the second floor. This includes the offices of NDSP's three directors and the main conference/situa­tion room. There is a "quiet interview" room with couch­es for more sensitive inter­views. This floor also has staff ofl'ices and an investi­gation wing. 
"We enjoyed the old build­ing, and it served us well, but I doubt that there is a 


(}reat Food! (}reat Fun! 
#1 Sports Jar in South Send 20+6 South Send Ave -Across frot~t Martins Plaza 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
nicer campus law enforce­ment building [than Hammes 
Fair
Mowbray] in the nation," said Chuck Hurley, the assis­
be  better  than  the  fall  
career fair.  
"(The fall]  was  very well  

continued from page 1 
tant director of the NDSP. The third floor of the new building houses the NDSP's 

Hees explained the career fitness room. 
center was able to bring in "Sometimes when officers 
employers from fields get off duty at 11 or 12, they 
uncommon to other career like to work out before going 
fairs because of the reputa­home," Rakow said. 
tion of Notre Dame's stu­One fu II class-
dents. room and one 
"We have employers in 
with tables and 
answer to 
requirements for bar exams, law school entries and faculty grants. 
"This is a terrific addition to campus. NDSP deserves a good home, and it is a pleas­ure to see it in its finished form," said Father Mark Poorman, Vice President for Student Affairs. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
organized, however, it was geared more towards upper classmen," she said. "I expect it to be bigger than the last one and it will prob­ably have more opportuni­ties than the one in the fall." 
Some students are excited about the prospect of meet­ing different business repre­sentatives. 
"I am going just to meet some people from the busi­ness world and to make some contacts, to get my name out there," sophomore Mike Sweeny said. 
Others hope to leave the fair with prospective jobs, internships, or interviews. 
"My goal is to obtain two interviews and to make some connections," said Tom Calahan, who graduat­ed from Notre Dame last semester. 
While some attend the fair just for the experience, oth­ers prepare extensively. 
"The first step is to go to the career center Web site," Calahan said. "From there, I make a list of all of the com­panies I want to approach and then I go on their Web sites to gain information about these companies." 
In conjunction with the Career and Internship Fair, the career center is spon­soring a Diversity Reception to promote employers who emphasiz'e fair employment 
et in at 

Wednesday, January 26, 2005 
practices. It will be held from noon to 2:30 p.m. today in the Monogram Room of the Joyce Center. 
Jonika Moore, coordinator of the Diversity Reception, said the two events go hand­in-hand. 
"The Diversity Reception was drawn out of the Career fair," Moore said. "It's about organizations who support and embrace diver­sity and encouraging net­working and relationship building." 
According to Moore, 151 representatives from 70 companies will be at the reception. 300 students have already reserved a spot. 
"This means they will receive business cards and a name badge," Moore said. "We expect more to come." 
She added the Diversity Fair is not as formal as the career fair. 
"It is strictly people talk­ing to people connecting like a touch point," Moore said. 
Like the Winter Career and Internship Fair, the Diversity Reception is free to students. 
Any student can benefit from today's events, Hees said. 
"I encourage all students whether they know what they want to do or not to visit these employers," she said. 
Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy@nd.edu 
seems much 
more efficient and state-of-the-art," fresh­man Natalie Rodden said. "It's much more convenient for Mod Quad residents." 
There are also some inter­agency offices that are avail­able for use by local, county, state, and federal branches of Jaw enforcement. 
"We are very excited about all of the cooperative train­ing that is going to happen," Rakow said. 
The third floor CSI lab fea­tures equipment for finger­print lifting, photography and evidence processing and packaging. There is also a 
training room General Electric, Arnold Worldwide, Time Inc., Hewlett Packard, Johnson & Johnson, the Vanguard Group, the National Football League and ESPN will have representatives in atten­dance. 
"You will have a world­class financial banking cor­poration next to a non-profit organization next to a -U.S. governmental agency," Hees said. 
Students of all ages have expressed interest in the event. 
Freshman Sara Carter thinks this career fair will 
272-1766 

fUES: COLLEG-E NIG-HT-UJ 6-SPECIALS {STAitTING-AT $}.00) Wed: Live fRIVIA Night -Jrit1g your teatMs -Prizes fHUitS: UJ -Pet1t1V Night -1~ Specials startit1g at 
9:00PM 


~~--~-­




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 26, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TI··rE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel stops targeting militants 
.I Utl!SAI.FM -Israel has stopped target­ing l'alnslinian militants l'or dnath, according to lsnwli sncurity of'lkials, fulfilling a key l'alnslinian demand l'or a truen to end !'our ypars or violnnen. 
Tlw 0 l'f'icials. spnak ing on co nd ilion 0 r anonymity. said lsnwl has inl'ormnd Uw l'aiPslinians ol' thnir dncision. It camn after gmwrals l'rom tlw two sidns nwt Tuesday to plan dPploynu•nt o(' l'alnstinian police in cen­tral and soul.lwrn (;aza, to prnvnnt militants !'rom attacking lsral'lis. 
Siru·n hn took ol'f'irP narlinr this month, l'aiPstinian IPadPr Mahmoud Abbas has bnnn nl'gotiating with militant groups about a tnrrn declaration. In rnturn. tho militants are dPnmnding that lsral'l stop its military oper­ations and halt its killing or militant leaders. 
Tlw groups agrPPd to a onn-month hall in attarks to lnsl lsnwf's rnsponsn. 
Investigators question Annan 
liNITI,:D NATIONS -Investigators probing aliPgat.ions of impropriPty in the United Nations' Iraqi oil-l'or-liHHI program qunstiorwd SPcrntary-CerH•ral Kol'i Annan about his involvnnwnt twicP last ynar and again Tuesday, a U.N. spokesman said. 
Annan mPI. with lin·mpr Fed Chairman Paul VokkPr and his investigators Nov. I) and again I>Pr. J. spoknsnwn FrPd Hrkhard said. A third meeting took plaen Tuesday afternoon, but Volrkm·, who spoke to reportnrs as hn lnl't tlw United Nations, would not give details. 
Volekpr's panPI had been expeeted to n~lmtsP a prPiirninary report in late January. hut lw said TuPsday it would eomn out in Parly Fnhnrary. "We'rp going to havn a report shortly," lw said. "All I can tf111 you is wait for tlw report to eonw out." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Guard offers financial incentive 
WASIIIN<;T<JN -Looking for new ways to holster its thinning ranks, the Army National Guard is s1wking legal authority to offer $15,000 bonuses to active-duty soldiers will­ing to join thn (;uard up from $50 now. 
Lt. (;en. II Steven Blum, chief of the National Guard Bureau, told reporters Tuesday that the Guard is 15,000 soldiers bdow its normal strength of 350,000, and he expects furthnr short-t1mn declines despite recent gains from tripling re-enlistment bonuses l'or Guardsnwn deployed abroad. 
If thn (;uard fails to return to its normal troop lnvnl of 350,000 by the end of the budg­nt year on Sept. 30, it will be the first time that has happened since 1989, the three-star gmwral said. lie added that he believes he has a fimnula fi>r restoring the Guard's strength. 

Restaurateur goes amiss 
DALlAS-Police searching for a kidnapped Dallas rnstaurateur scoured a river and its hanks Tuesday, a day after finding blood­stainnd dothes in woods based on information l'rom a suspnd who said the man was killed. 
Firn-rnseue teams using boats and cadaver dogs scournd shallow portions of the Trinity Hiver and its banks as investigators searched for the body of Oscar J. Sanchez. 
Police said they were told where to snarch for Sandwz's body by Jose Alberto Felix, a 28­year-old out-of-work teacher who was arrest­
•~d ovor the weekend in Chicago as he tried to board a !light to Guadalajara, Mnxieo. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Right to hunt confirmed 
INDIANAPOLIS-The House approved leg­islation Tuesday that could ultimately lead to a state constitutional right to hunt, fish and trap, something proponents say would guard against oll'orts to mode a "valued part of our heritage." 
Opporwnts said hunting and fishing were not under serious attack in Indiana, and the proposed constitutional amendment trivial­iznd a document designed to address more fundamental rights and principles. 
War costs rise another $SOB 

Bush asks Congress for more money as the 2005 deficit estimate rises to $427B 
Associated Press 
WASil I NGTON -As Congress started to digest a nnw Bush administration request or $80 billion to bankroll wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, its top budget analyst on Tuesday project­ed $855 billion in delicits l'or tho nnxt decade oven without thn costs ol' war and l'rosidnnt Bush's Soeial Security plan. 
Throe senior administra­tion otlkials said Uw White llousn would request $80 billion for thn wars, or a bit morn, soon after Bush sub­mits his budget !'or f'iscal 2006 to lawmakers on Fob. 
7. Tho otlkials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the program has not yet bonn announced, said $75 billion or it would be for U.S. military costs, with thn rest including l'unds to train and nquip Iraqi and Afghan forcns, aid the new Palestinian leadership, build an embassy in Baghdad and help vietims of warfarn in Sudan's Darfur province. 
Congress approved $25 billion for the wars last summer. Using figures compiled by the Congressional Hesearch Serviee, which prepares reports for lawmakers, the newest request would push the totals provided for the years 2006 through 2015, strength in Iraq and year's legislative agenda. conflicts and worldwide is almost two-thirds small­Afghanistan dedines grad­Also left out worn the efforts against terrorism er than what congressional ually after 2006, those priee ol' extending Bush's past $300 billion. That budget analysts predicted wars would add $590 bil­tax cuts and easing the includes $25 billion already last fall. But the drop is due lion to deficits over the impact that the alternative provided for rebuilding largely to quirks in budget next decade. Including war minimum tax would have Iraq and Afghanistan. estimates that required the costs, this year's shortfall on middle-ineornn Amer­
In a written statement, agency to exclude future should hit about $400 bil­icans, which could exceed Bush said the money would Iraq and Afghanistan war lion, the budget ollice said. $2.3 trillion, thn report support U.S. troops and costs and other expenses. One of the administration said. help the United States Last September, the 10-officials said the White When those items are "stand with the Iraqi peo­year deficit estimate was House will project this included, Bush is a long ple and against the terror­$2.3 trillion. year's delieit including war way from his goal or cut­ists trying desperately to The CBO also projected eosts at $427 billion, citing ting deficits in hall' by block democracy and the this year's shortfall will bo higher overall spending 2009, Dmnoerats said. advance of human rights." $368 billion. That was estimates than the cmlgres­"Hnpublieans control the 
Amid the White House's close to the $348 billion sional estimators used. llouse, the Senate and the preparations, the deficit for 2005 that it had Besides lacking war White llouse, but t.hoy can't Congressional Budget forecast last fall. The two costs, the budget office's control the budget and they Office predicted the gov­largest deficits ever in dol­deficit estimates also omit­can't escape responsibility ernment will accumulate lar terms were last year's ted the estimated prieetag for its dismal condition," another $855 billion in $412 billion and the $377 of Bush's goal of revamping said Hep. John Spratt of deficits over tho next billion gap of 2003. Social Security, which South Carolina, top decade. The budget office esti­could cost $1 trillion to $2 Domoerat on the House 
The projection, for the mated that if U.S. troop trillion and dominate this Budget Committen. 


American hostage pleas for his life 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -An American kidnapped in November pleaded for his life in a video aired Tuesday, and at least a dozen Iraqis died in Baghdad as political violence con­tinued to plague the country five days before Sunday's crucial elec­tions for a new National Assembly. 
On a day the U.S. military announced that six American sol­diers died, Iraqi police engaged in fierce shootouts with insurgents, including gunmen who were hand­ing out leaflets warning Iraqis not to vote or risk seeing their families' blood "wash the streets of Baghdad." 
In the hostage video, a bearded Roy llallums, 56, speaking with a rifle pointed at his head, said he had been taken by a "resistance group" because "I have worked with American forces." He appealed to Arab leaders, including Libya's Moammar Gadhafi, to save his life. 
Hallums was seized by gunmen Nov. 1 along with Robert Tarongoy of the Philippines at their com­pound in Baghdad's Mansour dis­trict. The two worked for a Saudi company that does catering for the Iraqi army. The Filipino was not shown in the video and it was not known when the video was made. 

"I am please asking l'or help because my life is in danger because it's been proved I worked for American forces," llallums said. 
In Westminster, Calif., his daugh­ter, Carrie Cooper, 29, said she last saw him at a family reunion last .June. 
"My heart's broken to sen my dad with a gun to his head.... lie's fear­less and he wanted to help tho peo­ple there and rebuild Iraq," she told KNBC-TV. 
Hallums' former wife, Susan llallums, urged President Bush to help the captive and urged the kid­nappers to let him go. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 26, 2005 
Speaker 
continued from page 1 
Dame graduate, spoke in 2004. 
The University hopes to announce this year's speaker soon, Brown said. 
"Our commencement speak­ers are not selected on the basis of celebrity," Brown said. "We seek speakers who have made signilicant contributions to society and who will deliver a compelling and relevant mes­sage to our graduates." 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 
Favila appointed as director 
Special to the Observer 
The College of Engineering has appointed Ivan Favila director of the Minority Engineering Program (MEP). lie joined the University in December. 
"I am excited to be part of the Notre Dame family and the MEP as we continue to work toward addressing the under­representation of minorities studying and practicing engi­neering at Notre Dame," Favila said. "Minority engi­neering at Notre Dame is not a new program, but we are renewing our commitment to encourage students with diverse backgrounds to become more fully engaged in what the college offers." 
According to Favila, over the next few months the MEP will focus on developing leadership skills in students, building a community of engineering stu­dents, developing engineering­related extracurricular activi­ties and promoting academic excellence among all students. 
"Creative solutions rise from people who think differently," he said. "Students from varied ethnicities, ancestries and social conditions bring diverse ideas and solutions, which is quite valuable for problem­solving professions, such as engineering." 
Most recently, Favila was assistant director of the Minority Engineering Recruitment and Hetention Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC), where he also served as director of the Cooperative Engineering Education Program. 




P.E. 

continued from page 1 
six rotations of physical edu­cation elasses throughout their freshman year, thP, only excep­tion being for HOTC students and athletes. However, athletes are required to complete the two rotations of contemporary topics. 
Although P.E. is mandatory for first-year students, if open­ings in the classes remain, upperclassmen may participate as well. 
"Not many people realize that physical education is open to all students, not just freshman. No one is excluded from taking these classes," Kelly said. 
For those taking the P.E. rota­tions, the physical aspect of education comes in two tracks at Notre Dame-wellness edu­cation and lifetime sports edu­cation. 
"The wellness track of the course includes the contempo­rary topics requirement and education in fitness and weight training," Kelly said. 'The life­time sports track focuses on activities like golf, racquet ball, skating and dance; things peo­ple learn in order to stay fit their whole lives." 
Staying fit for life is a major theme of the physical education program, which seeks to edu­cate students in sports and activities they otherwise might not have had the opportunity to learn. 
"We view P.E. at Notre Dame as deficiency education," Kelly said. "We want to offer students opportunities to learn and par­ticipate in activities that are new to them. You'll notice we don't ofl"er classes in sports like softball or basketball here. We figure most students already know the basics of those sports, so we try to offer some new experiences for them." 
Such new experiences include classes in fencing, self-defense, social dance, ice-skating, hand­ball and yoga, among others. Even skiing and snowboarding are offered, though with a fee for equipment and transporta­tion to the Swiss Valley Ski Area in Michigan. 
Most students viewed Notre Dame's physical education classes positively. 
"I really like the require­ment," said freshman Jenny Korzan, who is currently taking a dass on fitness development. "It teaches us to integrate exer­cise into our daily schedules. If we make exercise and health a priority now, we'll be more like­ly to stick with it later on in life." 
"I think P.E. is awesome. You get to learn sports, meet people and stay active. Most Notre Dame kids were really active with sports in high school, and then they come to NO with din-ing halls, Sbarro, Burger King and Reekers, so it's good to get into good habits starting fresh­man year," said Josh Haycroft, a freshman from Alumni Hall. 

Raycroft, who has taken handball, fencing, self-defense and golf, added that many of his friends at other schools thought Notre Dame's P.E. requirement was strange at first. 
"They thought the fact that I had to take gym was weird, but I think they realize now that it's actually pretty valuable," Haycroft said. 
Although physical education has long been a tradition at Notre Dame, it's not unique to the University. Many other schools have a commitment to health education as well. 
"Notre Dame compares with many other elite universities with our P.E. requirement," Kelly said. "We have done some extensive research on physical education at universities throughout the country and found that many comparable institutions, like Dartmouth and Columbia, for example, offer 
P.E. either as a requirement or as an elective." 
In addition to the research on physical education at other schools, Notre Dame's P.E. department also studies student response to its own programs. 
"We conduct student reviews and surveys on a regular basis in order to improve our pro­gram by finding out what courses students find valuable and what should be improved," Kelly said. 
Interestingly enough, the most valuable class listed was swimming. 
"When we ask our students at Notre Dame how they feel about the swimming course required for beginning swim­mers, we find that just about all of them say they are happy to have taken the class," said Kelly. "It improves their confi­dence in the water. and without the l)niversity's requirement, they may have never learned how to swim. Some students even seek further lessons to improve their skills beyond the basics." 
Beth Kuberka, a senior, was required to take swimming her freshman year. 
''I'm so glad I had to take swimming. I never would have learned to swim if it hadn't been required," she said. "Now I can actually enjoy swimming instead of clinging to the side of the pool." · 
Adding to the value of the swim lessons, Kuberka said the social aspect of the class was also beneficial. 
"I loved my swimming dass," she said. Maybe it was our bonding over, the embarrass­ment of being dad in swimsuits together, but I've stayed friends with a lot of the people who were in my class freshman year." 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
Sarvica Projact lntarnships 


A"Constructiva" Summar Altarnativa 
Spend 8weeks at any of 120 sites in U.S.A. 
Choose whom you want to serve, from kids to the elderly to everyone in between (no manual labor required!) 
Earn theology credits and a $2,000 scholarship 
LAST INFORMATION SESSION 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26 @ Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
..Applications due 
C E NT E R f 0 R

l~/NorRE 5oAME 
SOCIAL 

FEBRUARY 22
CONCERNS
Alumni Association 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, January 26, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 


10,461.56 +92.95

Jones ..._. 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,700 175 ·~ 1,609,771,264 

AMEX I ,407. 96 -8.22 NASDAQ 2,019.95 +11.25 NYSE 6,998.64 +14.61 S&P 500 I , 168.4 I +4.66 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) II ,370.77 +93.86 FTSE IOO(Lonclon) 4,843.20 +30.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR SER I (QQQQ) +0.49  +0.18  36.71  
INTEL CP (INTC)  + 1.23  +0.27  22.26  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -1.35  -0.24  17.51  
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI)  +2.46  +0.15  6.24  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  + 1.36  +0.35  26.02  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  + 1.50  +0.69  46.75  
I0-YEAR NOTE  + 1.63  +0.67  41.89  
5-YEAR NOTE  + 1.54  +0.56  37.03  
3-MONTH BILL  +2.61  +0.60  23.61  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.)  +0.83  49.64  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -5.00  422.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.48  94.15  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I 03.7600  
EURO  0.7702  
POUND  0.53 55  
CANADIAN$  1.2349  



IN BRIEF 
Brokerages settle for $40M 
WASIIINCTON -Morgan Stanley and Coldman Saehs agreed Tuesday to pay $40 million nad1 to settln regulators' allegations that tlwy impropnrly dolml out shares of hot rww stocks to certain customers to get them to buy morn at inflated priens once trading lwgan. 
Thn hroknragns nnithnr admitted to nor dnnied the allegations made in two dvil law­suits by the Sneurities and Exchange Commission. The Wall Stroot firms also agreed to rnfrain from further violations. The settle­nwnts are subjnet to approval by federal eourts in Nnw York and Washington. 
The violations of securities laws and broker­age industry rules all1~gedly oeeurrml in 1999 and 2000, during thn height of the tnch-stock boom and the fhmzy of initial publie ofTerings ol'stoek, known as IJ>Os. 
Thn fines are the latest in a series of similar nnforcnnwnt eas1~s brought over the past few ynars by the SI\C and the disciplinary arm of tlw National Association of Sneurities Dealors, tlw brokeragn industry's self-policing group. 
Yukos oil giant to be sold off 
MOSCOW -Hussian authoritins will sell off tlw rmnains of the dismembored Yukos oil 1:ompany, with at least ono of its main remain­ing production units being sold this spring, a nnws agency said Tuesday. 
The Internet rwws ageney, dting an uniden­tified sourco at the Yukos subsidiary Samararwf'tngaz, said tho unit may be sold ofl' tlw sanw way the Yukos' giant Yugansknnf'tngaz was auctioned ofT last month a sale widely criticized as rigged. 
Samarannftegaz pumps 35 percent to 40 pnrcent of Yukos' remaining output, Yukos spokesman Alexander Shadrin said. 
"According to our information there is no other way for things to devnlop," the Samararwftegaz source said, according to lnterfax. "l•:verything is going the same way. The limn frame is somewhere nearer to spring, eitlwr Mard1, April or May." 
Tho rnport could not immediately confirmed. 
Shadrin said Yukos officials had heard noth­ing about plans to sell ofT Samaraneftegaz, :·uwug~ h!.gic shows that anything can happen 111 Hussta. 
World Economic Forum begins 
Government and business leaders meet to discuss global economy at annual meeting 
Associated Press 
DAVOS, Switzerland ­What do you got il' you mix Angelina Jolin with Bill Clinton and Bill (;atns at tho annual summit of' the rich, l'amous and powerful in the snowy Alps? A discussion with the prnsidents of South Africa and Nigel'ia on n~dueing poverty and fight­ing AIDS. 
Bono and Hiehard Gnrn are among the othnr celebrities drawn to thn Swiss ski rnsort of Davos for tho chance to rub shoul­ders with government and business leaders at thn five­day World 1\eonomic Forum beginning Wndrwsday. 
Tight security inducting an air l'orce ready to shoot down unauthorized aireraf't that stray too dose to tho 
2.500 partidpants has bonn sot up to make surn tho loaders can chat undis­turbed in thn resort's hotds and mooting cnnters or on tho ski slopos above. 
"Taking responsibility l'or tough choicns" is tho th1mw for this yoar's mnetings, organized into a. tightly packed choice of' 220 ses­sions from breakfast time until midnight. Many morn meetings involving national presidents, prime ministers and business leaders take place behind the scenes. 
The toughest choices for inelude Sharon Stone and The privilege of joining in Chirae starts things rolling participants ineludn select­Carole Bouquet, as well as the discussions, or perhaps with a preliminary "special ing from the bewildering architects, musicians and just being presnnt with a message" Wednesday after­lists of discussions many of other artists. chance of cutting baekroom noon, and British Primo which are simultaneous Bono, Clinton and Gatos deals, is costly for business Minister Tony Blair dnliv1~rs and over meals. will meet with South leaders. The minimum the keynote address at tho 
They range from heavy African President Thabo membership fee fi>r a eom­formal opening Wednesday discussions on tho world Mbeki and Nigerian pany is about $25,000, and evening. nconomy or individual President Olusegun Oba­the ticket for eaeh business Tho U.S. Senate is assur­country's problems and sanjo to discuss "The G-8 executive to attend costs ing an American presnneo, prospects to more self-cen­and Africa Hhetoric or nearly $12,000, spokesman however, with a delegation ternd themes like "knowing Action'?" Mark Adams said. of 10 members headed by your own mind." "Poverty reduetion is the The forum has been a Senate Majority Leader Bill 
A "cultural leaders din­keystone of the G-8 agenda favorite of top U.S. adminis­Frist, H-Tenn., and Son. nor" Friday gives partici­for 2005. While most of the tration ofl'icials in recent John Kerry, 1>-Mass., pants a chance to meet developing world is expori­years, including Viee organizers said. with Gere, who has cam­endng rapid growth, Africa President Dick Cheney and (;orman Chancellor paignod for Tibetan rights, is falling further behind," Clinton, but this year's Gerhard Schroeder will and .lolie, a goodwill the program note says. event will be dominated by speak Friday, and Jose ambassador for the U.N. "One in two Africans lives top European leaders as Manuel Barroso tho nnw High Commissioner for on less than one dollar a key U.S. ollicials stay away president of the European Hefugees, who has wit­day and the scourge of eon­bncausn or personnel Commission will get his first nessnd the problems of peo­fliet continues unabated changes in the Bush admin­ehanen to address the pln fleeing persecution. The while IIJV tightens its istration, organizers said. world's busirwss leaders other scheduled guests destruetive stranglehold." French President Jacques Saturday, organizors said. 

HealthSouth CEO tried for fraud 
Associated Press 
BIHMINGHAM, Ala. -Fired llealthSouth CEO Hiehard Scrushy made millions off a seven-year scheme to overstate earnings by about $2.7 billion as investors large and small suffered, a prosecutor told jurors Tuesday as testimony opened in Scrushy's eorporate fraud trial. 
A Scrushy lawyer countered that the fraud at HealthSouth Corp. was thn work of a tightly knit group of executives known as "the family" who purposely kept Scrushy in the dark. 
"This was no ordinary family. This was a family that operated as 
a unit on their own," defense attor­ney Jim Parkman said. 
U.S. Attorney Alice Martin said Scrushy, 52, sold about $150 mil­lion worth of his own HealthSouth stock as subordinates created false financial statements to make it seem the rehabilitation giant was meeting analysts' expectations, boosting company shares. 
The government also charged that Scrushy spent more than $200 million on such luxuries as water­front mansions, opulent cars, a rae­ing boat, bronze statues, a 21-carat diamond ring and a $3.2 million airplane. 
All the while, Scrushy was getting private reports to show him the company's true financial condition and not telling invnstors what was going on, Martin said. 

"The evidenee will show that Hichard Scrushy as chief executive officer gave phony numbers to tho public," said Martin, calling Scrushy "a very hands-on loader" who pieked his top aides and later tried to sway their statements to federal agents once an invnstiga­tion began. 
The defense coneednd that a fraud occurred. But Parkman blamed it on a group of ovorly ambitious executives who hid the misstatements from Serushy. 
The judge said the trial eould last four months. 
'·'­

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENTS Wednesday, January 26, 2005 

E 
The Washington Program ts accepting applications for Fall 2005 and Spring 2006 ·.......... ,·······deadline: Jan.............w, 
~....,..nd.edu/ ~ 

!majo -welcome 
!%.... 

A S-pee-~IAL TVJIAV\,~ yotA. to OtA.r Corpor~Ate S-pOI/\,SOrs! ---Platinum ~ 
~Gold~ 

PE.J!!dlSGN
=11 ERNST& YOUNG 
GE Imagination at work -~ 
QualityIn E'Verything l>'Vof• l~o 
.fil(iUG~n
Deloit.te* 
~Silver~ 

6DS, 6nterpr--fse, ~ewLett-'P~Ae-~~Arct 'Proe-ter § Cf~AVvtbLe, § TV!e VIAV\,gu~Aroi c;rotA.-p 
The Diversity Reception 
is a networking event designed to allow students to connect and build relationships with organizations that embrace and promote diversity. 

Faculty and Staff are encouraged to attend! 
The Diversity Reception Noon-2:30pm precedes Winter Career and Internship Fair 4pm-Bpm at the joyce Center. 

' . 
' . 

w~dnesday, January 9, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


winter % & diversity reception p 

Abercrombie & Fitch Accenture Alliance for Catholic 
Education Allstate Insurance Amate House American Camp Association 
~ American Consulting American Express Financial Advisors American Institutes.
l0 
for Research* American Prospect* 
E 
c. 
American Security Council Foundation* Anson Industries Arnold Worldwide 
Bain & CompanyGl Bosch Tool Brooksource BUNAC Burson-Marsteller Camp Sweeney Camp Tecumseh CATO Institute* CDW Central Intelligence Agency
. 
Chicago Apartment Finders Chicago Consulting Actuaries City of South Bend Coachmen Industries College Football Hall of Fame Congressional Budget Office* Credit Suisse First Boston Crowe Chizek and Company Deloitte E&J Gallo Winery EchoStar Communications Edelman* EDS Enterprise Rent-A-Car Ernst & Young ESPN Federated Insurance Federated Media Florida Power & Light Ford Motor Company Fund for Public Interest 
Research GCI Group General Electric Grand Prairie Services 
Behavioral Healthcare Greater Cleveland 
Sports Commission* HEB Grocery Hewlett-Packard Hill, Holliday, Connors, 
Cosmopulos Holy Cross Associates Houston's Restaurants Human Rights First* Hyatt Indiana Department 
ofTransportation 

Institute for the International Education of Students Interlochen Center for the Arts Internal Revenue Service 
J. Walter Thompson* Japan Exchange and Teaching Programme John F. Kennedy Center 
for the Performing Arts* Johnson & Johnson Korea Economic Institute* KPMG Lawndale Christian 
Health Center Life Treatment Centers Lockheed Martin Madison Center for Children Madison Police Department Marathon Ashland Petroleum McGiadrey & Pullen Memorial Sloan-Kettering Mercy Home for Boys & Girls Merrill Lynch Methodist Re~earch Institute Motorola National City Corporation National Football League* National Women's Law 
Center* NAVAIR Navigant Consulting Nestle Newell Rubbermaid Northrop Grumman 
Space Technology Nova Group of Japan Office Depot Organon Pharmaceuticals Panda Restaurant Group Peace Corps Pearson Education Press Ganey PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter &Gamble Protiviti Public Defender Service for 
the District of Columbia Pulte Homes Quicken Loans Rock and Roll Hall of Fame 
and Museum* Rolls-Royce Ruder Finn* Ryan &Company sanofi-aventis 
sse 
Schwan's Home Service SCORE Educational Centers Sierra Club* Smithsonian Institution* South Bend Silver Hawks St. Paul Travelers Insurance State Farm* Stepan 



wednesday 


january26 
12:00 -2:30pm diversityreception 
monogram room, joyce center 
all are welcome to attend 

4pm-8pm career • internshipfair 
joyce center north dome 
Stryker Instruments Sun Life Financial Tafbots Target Teach For America Technology Services Group The Children's Museum 
of Indianapolis The Vanguard Group Thrivent Financial 
for Lutherans Time Inc. Uline University Directories University of Notre Dame ­
Human Resources
, 

hockey rink side,enter gate 3 student ID required 
University of Notre Dame ­Kellogg Institute University of Notre Dame ­
Office of Controller University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine 
US Army Corps of Engineers* US Marine Corps US Navy Recruiting District US Patent and Trademark Wesco Distribution World Hunger Year World Service Authority* 
recent registrants 
Deutsche Bank Goldman Sachs Gurley Leep 
Automotive Family NBC* Progressive Insurance Project on Government 
Oversight* SCORE Steve & Barry's University 
Sportswear The Menta Group 

UBS University of Notre Dame ­Center for Social Concerns US Army Health Care Recruiting US Naval Criminal 
Investigative Services* USA Today* WPS Resources YMCA Camp Potawotami 
*Resume drop 
findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating organizations, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to http://careercenter.nd.edu/undergrad.php 

• 
Click on Undergraduates, then click on Go IRISH 

• 
Enter yourNetiD {AFSID) and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Search Jobs/Internships 


• 
Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 

• 
Scroll down to Keyword Search, type in WCIF, then click on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on "Organization" -Positions, click on "Position Title" 



liJ 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME The Career Center 
every college • every major • internships • full-time 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, January 26, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Freedom is not free in 2005
Tbr lndepnu/1!111, Daily Nnvsp4per Sn-rtir~t Natrr D4l.me a11J Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDI.TOR IN CHIEF Matt Lazar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabu!as SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARy's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
Tfle news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editm; Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The fre~ expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observerpolicies should be dinxud to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'fhe Observer {USPS S99 l-4000) is publi!lhed. Monday through Fr-idJ.y o:<:ept during exam and vac..tiM pcriQds. A.subscription to The Observ~ is $100 tOr one acadcn1ic ~r; $55 fat on~ seme.src:r. 
The O~rvtr is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address comx:tioru to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46116-0779 The Observer 
Periodical post;tge. p.tid at Notte Da.me P.O. Bo<779 
and additional mailin~ otlices. 024 South Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 46556-{)779 
11u: Obsavc:r i~ a Jllt:iltht:r uf the Az."ociatcd Pr~. All rcproductiun tight~ ate reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kate Antonocci Ann Loughery Megan O'Neil Heather Van Jeannine Privat Hoegarden Viewpoint Tom Dorwart Becca Rosswurm Scene Graphics Maria Smith Graham Ebetsch lllustrator Graham Ebetsch 

Weeks before his inauguration last Thursday, President George W Bush told his speechwriter that he wanted his second Inaugural Address to be his "freedom speech." And it was just that-a dazzling allocution of America's p t vocation to freedom e er against the dark forces Quaranto 
of tyranny. In his "pep­
oration," the president A Call to Action laid out the fundamen­tal plank of his vision: 'The best hope for peace in our world is the expansion offree­dom in all the world." It is certain that few rational Westerners would argue with this Kantian democratic-peace hypothesis, yet we ought to interrogate it..<> manifestations in real politick. Especially in the Bush case, where it appears the roads of "freedom" lead to war against Iran in 2005. 
Last week, Seymour Hersh, the famous muckraking journalist who exposed the My Lai massacre in Vietnam and the Abu Ghraib prison scandal in Iraq, published an article in The New Yorker magazine claiming the United States has been carry­ing out secret reconnaissance missions in Iran for over a year, preparing military strikes against select targets. According to Hersh's contact, ahigh-level intelligence official, the Bush Administration is seeking to find three dozen or so target sites that could be destroyed by precision strikes and commando raids. Hersh's contact said, "We're not dealing with a set of National Security Council option papers here ... It's not ifwe're going to do anything against Iran. They're doing it." 
The troubling part ol'this is that the European nations and IAEA have been working tirelessly, and with some success over the last year to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Evidence from negotiations suggests that Iran is will­ing to halt its weapons development for economic trade and aid carrots. Yet, such anti-proliferation ellort<> have been hin­dered by lack of support from the United States. Against almost all evidence, it appears that the neo-conservatives in the Pentagon are convinced that Iran will con­tinue to develop weapons systems regard­less of diplomacy. Further, some believe military attacks on Iran could empower secular nationalists against the fundamen­talist blamic regime. Can you say "freedom on the march?" 
The British newspaper, The Guardian, fwiher reported that the Pentagon i<> plan­ning to use members of the Iranian rebel group, Mujahedin-e-Khalq, to cross the Iraq-Iran border to gather intelligence. The MEK is considered a terrorist group by the state department, but the United States has worked with terrorist groups in the past and will in the future. The Guardian also reports that the Pentagon is bringing in officials from the Reagan Iran-contra days to write policy papers for military action in Iran. 
In response, the White House has elaimed Hersh's article i<> "riddled with inaccuracies." Yet, the White House has been nebulous in its statements regarding Iran, continuing to note that the military option remains on the table. In the morn­ing before the Inauguration ceremonies, Vice President Dick Cheney remarked that Iran is "right at the top" of the administra­tion's list of threatening nations, and that Israel "might well decide to attack" Iran's nuclear capacity first. It is clear that the administration sees their electoral victory as a mandate to amplify their aggressive f(>reign policy agenda. 
Perhaps the most troubling development that I Iersh uncovers in his reporting is the conglomeration of power by the Pentagon at the expense of the CIA. In recent months, Bush has i<>sued executive orders that allow Secretary of Defi:msP Donald Rumsfeld to utilize and control military commandos in covert operations that are free from the legal scrutiny of the CIA. In other words, no accountability. There is even serious talk that Bush will give the Pentagon complete control over the CIA's own elite paramilitary unit. In the recent intelligence-reform bill, the White House made changes at the last moment to ensure that the Secretary of Defense would not have to answer to the new national­intelligence director. 

Under these new changes, the Pentagon will be able to coordinate covert "action teams" in countries overseas. Recent reports by Newsweek claim the Pentagon is entertaining the idea of bringing back the use of death squads as was done in El Salvador throughout the 1980s, resulting in the murder and torture oftens of thou­sands. Also, according to an article in Monday's Washington Post, Rumsfeld has a new intelligence group, titled the Strategic Support Branch, which is hidden from Congress and the CIA. This intelligence group has been working with Special Forces and oul<>ide agents to conduct clan­destine activities. 
~"'lall of these developments are troubling, 
~ecially when they occur under the mis­guided semantic cloak offreedom. The lin­guistic blunder that Bush makes is that he envisions freedom as a state of being, rather than praxis, an end as opposed to a means. The philosopher Voltaire once said, "So long as people do not care to exercise their freedom, those who wish to tyrannize will do so." The challenge in 2005 for you and I is to exereise our freedom, to ensure that the forces of tyranny and deceit do not pre­vail within our country and among our own policymakers. Freedom is not free, and in the coming year as the empowered and emboldened Pentagon beats the war drums once again, we must demand trans­parency and truth. Freedom comes not through the barrel of a gun, but from the heartbeat or a people who refuse to be mis­led or silenced. 
Peter Quaranta is a junior political sci­ence and international peace studies major. He will write from Uganda this semester where he will be studying. Contact Peter at pquarant@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
How many of your professors are priests, brothers or sisters? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You cannot escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today." 
Abraham Lincoln 16th president 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 26, 2005 
page II 
------========================================================================================== 
Stop using Internet Explorer immediately 
Originally I had plannd on putting together a lnftist analysis of what many arn now calling Bush's Frnmlom Add ross-your standard ovnr-intnlleetualiznd, self­aggrandizing Vinwpoinl ngo-massagn, rnally. Unforlunatnly, in tho intnrim sonwthing important camn along, and my ninsdnnen would not 
Lance Gallop
allow nw to continun with that routn. 
Stop using lntnrnnt Explornr. Stop using it. this day, this hour. this minutn The Third Way and nnvnr look back. lntnrnot l·:xplornr had so many flaws-fundamental flaws, not supt~rlkial or nasily fixable mistakes-that it rnprnsents a sorious risk to you, to your eomputnr, to any network you arn on and in fad to every pnrson on the lnltwnet. Without any doubt. IE is lhn numbnr onn prevnntable ntusn of malicious sof'twarn, such as virusns and spy­wan~; it has provnn this lime and limn again to t.lw cost of tons or billions or dollars. 
This is my advicn to you, this is also thn advien of the Il1~partnwnt of llonwland Sncurity, and, earlier this month when lhn most critical IE security hole ever dis­covPrnd was announced-a lwln that giv11s a Wnb site complete control ovnr your eomputnr without anything bt~ing rlicknd -this was nearly thn advieo of tho OIT. l•'or reasons I cannot fathom, thny backnd away from their annourH~nrnent whnn a hastily eral'tnd patch was mhmsed. But this patch doesn't change the basnline issun-IE has railnd US, and should no longer bn trust­Pd. 
Tlw conclusions of tho OIT were this: you must use IE li1r I) Irish link dass scheduling and 2) some or Notrn Damn's intnmal sitns that students, to my knowlndgn, do not usn. This amounts, for a student, to perhaps three limes per year when Internet Explorer is aetually rnquired. Thoro is absolutely no exeuse, in other words, for continuing to use software that is the computer equivalont of unprotoeted sex with a third world prostitute. 
Tlu1 danger has never been so great. Thoro is a thriving black market for com­promisod computers, bought and sold for trivial amounts of money (bocauso of the enormous supply). The buyers are spamnwrs and child pornography trallkkors, hackers and the Hussian Malia. More and more, viruses are not the product of teenage hobbyists, but well-crafted eommissions. The purchasnrs get frno bandwidth at your expensn. and the knowledgo that their dealings will be traced to you. Thorn is a great deal of money to be made in breaking in to your comput­er, and the actions of tho buyers become more sinister with each passing day. 


Fortunately, there is another way. 
For a year and a half I have been a user of Mozilla Firel'ox. In that time I have encountered zero viruses (although I do take other precautions), loss than a dozen pieces of spyware and seven popup ads. Firefox is fundamentally different from Internet Explorer, although it displays Web pages in the same way, and it lacks many of the design decisions that make IE socurity Swiss cheese. It has a popup blocker that does an incredible job -for this alone it is worth switch­ing -it is designed to be very easy to use coming oil' of IE, it installs in less than 3 minutes, induding download, and it imports all of your IE favorit1~s automatically. If you arn snrious about security, or you just hatn spywarn 



and popups, I recommend FirnfiJx. You t~an probably tell fh11n that plug that I am a Firefox advoeato. You an~ w1dcomo to 
use Firefox, but you are also wnkome to halo it; it does not chango tho underly­ing point. Find a Wnb browsor that suits your noods, it donsn't mattnr 
which browsnr you usn, so long as it is not lntnrnnt Explornr (bn carnful though, some lwowsors, likn Opora, use tho lnternnt Explornr engine, and so should not bn !~onsidnmd safe). This is not about hating or lik­ing Microsoft, it is not about hating 
or liking Firefox, it is about common sense, and not putting your trust in 
sof'twarn that has bntrayed that trust dozens of limes. You can download Firofox at http://www.gntlirnfox.com. Anothm altnr­native is Netscape 7, which is runs on the same core as Firnfox, but is bulkier and !~an bn found at http://www.netscape.com. 
l,ance Gallop is a .fifth-year senior majoring in comput­er science, philosophy, and theology. lie welcomes com­ments and criticisms. but please do not send requests for technical support. lie can be reached atlgallop@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser(l(~r. 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Far left is out of touch with mains team America 
.Josnph Mitior's Jan. 24 lettnr to the editor "We need occurrnd in Ohio, it is very likely that Ohio, and thus the themselves losing elections and falling further away things to celebrate" shows just how out oftoueh the far presidency, would have gone to Kerry." Of course he from ordinary Americans. The fact is Bush was rnelnded loft is with rnainstrnam America. lie and others like him does not explain what this "high quality evidence" of despite what Miller and radical organizations like the still bnlinvn this elnction was stolen dnspite thn lad that vote fraud is, and that is because it doesn't exist. Peace Coalition and the Progressive Student Allianen Pmsident Georgn W. Bush was reelected with 51 percent He daims that the information has been suppressed by which has a direct link to a Marxist Website on "their of' the national votn and bmtt Snnator John Kerry by the mainstream media especially Fox News which is Website (I am not making this up) believe. Under a dnm­morn than 3.3 million votes. allegedly "an extension of the administration." A more ocratic constitutional government, we must accept tho 
In Ohio, Bush won by more than a 100,000 votes. This accurate source of information according to Miller is will of the people, and if we disagree, work to changn it is not the 2000 election which was a statistical tie and Michael Moore. Anyone who believes that Michael Moore in four years. However, with this eurrnnt rhetoric they could possibly have been influenced by fraud, though I is less biased than the mainstream media is not living in will not be successful. do not belinvn it was. There is no conceivable way fraud the real world. The far left simply eannot accept the fact eould have gottnn the President l 00,000 more votes than that they lost the election and that they are out of touch Rob Schrimpf Knrry in Ohio and thrm~ million more nationally, despite with mainstream America, much less the mainstream of Junior Miller's claim that "extensive high quality evidence sug­even the Democratic Party. If the left persists this mantra Stanford Hall gnsts that had this votn supprnssion, vote fraud, ete. not of paranoid conspiracy theories, they will continue to see Jan. 25 
U-WIRE 
Respect right to constitution 
Still the right decision 
The 32nd anniversary of the historic Hoe v. Wade court c~e was celebrated Monday with the customary demonstra­tions from both opponents and propo­nents of abortion rights. Though the demonstrations 
Staff Editorial 
have become com­monplace, this 
Ohio University
year's events have 
The Post
intnnsified with the increasing possibili­ty of vacancies on the Suprnme Court. A<> the nation speculates a'i to whether Chief Justice William H. Hnhnquist will step down, the current administration might have the opportunity to appoint conservative justices that could potnn­tially tip the scales in favor of opponents of abortion rights. 
Few issues elicit a stronger public response than abortion rights, but the truth is that abortion will continm1 to be pragmatic for American society. All per­sonal dogma aside, then) is no reason for this landmark case to be overturned. Despite the passing of laws that began to erode the foundation of the court's decision. For instance, the ban on par­tial birth abortions and "conscience 

Dnspitn thn flying accusations of mur­der and legislating from the bench, the Supremo Court followed the Constitution as best it could on Monday with its ded­sion to not hear the ease of Terri Schiavo. The ease is a Staff Editorial hnated debate involv­ing the problems of' a Rutgers thoroughly modern Unioersity sodnty, including the Daily Targum right to die and the ability of tnehnology to ereatn or sustain lif'e. 
Schiavo was 26 in 1990 when she col­lapsed, most liknly from an eating disor­dnr. I lor hnart stopped long enough to eaus1~ serious brain damage. In 1998, doctors diagnosnd her with bning in a pnrsistnnt vegetative state, which means although hnr eyes aro open and follow the movern1mt of objects, she has no mnotions, thoughts or memories. 
Schiavo's husband began pntitioning in 1998 -after the diagnosis was made and hnr ease denmnd incurable-for her feeding tube to be removed. Soon aflnr, Schiavo's parents went to Florida Governor Jeb Bush to prevent that action f'rorn bning taken. Bush immediately ush­
..• 
ered through a law tailored to Terri's case, which forced the feeding tube back in. The Florida Supreme Court ruled the law unconstitutional, which the U.S. Supreme Court basically upheld Monday. 
Whether Hepublican or Democrat, for or against the right to die, the issue pre­sented here is not a ease of murder. It is a ease of constitutionality. The Supreme Court did not officially remove the feed­ing tube, as current pending legislation prohibits such irreversible measures. 
To call the Supreme Court justices murderers is to judge on passions. The Constitution was developed to prevent unnecessary or unfair laws from being instituted. Tailoring legislation to a spe­cific ease, and probably never using it again, is dearly an unfair practice. 
Kudos to the justices. They were able to see beyond personal views and uphold the eivil rights of the country. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Jan. 2.1 edition of the Daily Targum. the daily publication at Rutgers University. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those of the author and not necessar­
dauses." The ruling is strong enough to stand the challenges brought against it. The Supreme Court made the correct decision in 1973 and eraftnd a sound ruling in both principii~ and detail. 
In reality, even if Hon v. Wade wern to be overturned, it would not end the practice of abortion. Instead, it will merely rnmand the decision to individ­ual states and the prospect of evnry state passing the same law is infinitesi­mal. 
Therefore, the only si1,rnifieant effects of the possible overturning of Hoe v. Wade would be an unnecessary finan­cial burden upon citizens who would have to travnl to a nnarby statn to have the procedure pnrl'orrnnd. That potential burden and the violation of individuals' rights to make their own dndsions ean­not be imposed upon any citizen, despite the feelings of conservative America. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Jan. 25 edition ofThe Post. the daily publication at Ohio University. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, January 26, 2005 

The Student Players present two plays in conjunction t 

By MARIA SMITH and 
KCKENNEY 
Scene Editor and Scene Writer 
The Student Players have long been dedicated to bringing engag­ing and thought-provoking shows to Notre Dame's campus, as well as sponsoring events such as the Freshman Four plays. By keeping a diverse repertoire, the Players are able to showcase student talent as well as give the community a taste of' insightful and poignant theater. 
In the spirii of unity and activism, the Student Players also have taken on the campus issue of homosexu­ality, diversity and acceptance -a theme that has been expressed in many different mediums over the course of the past few years. ln hopes to take a diverse look at var­ious facets of a homosexual lifestyle, the Players have opted against one show this year and chosen two full-length shows. "Bent" is a look primarily at male homosexuality, set in a concentra­tion camp during the Holocaust. "Stop Kiss" takes a more contem­porary look at a budding homosex­ual relationship between two women in New York City. 
"It's a huge issue on campus not being directly addressed," director Cricket Slattery said. "The Standing Committee [for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs! does a good job.... [But] the rest of the country is talking about the University in a way that members of the student body aren't happy with." Stop Kiss 
Many efforts have been done to 


CLEMENT SUHENDRA!The Observer Callie (Carole Kennelly, left) and Sara (Cricket Slattery, right) are shy about exploring their new relationship. Both have previously been in the habit of dating men. 
rebuke the stigma that came with the Princeton Review's ranking of Notre Dame's attitude of accept­ance (or lack thereof), as well as a general campus nonchalance to the problem. At the same time, they· hope to put on a strong show alTer­ing audiences a look at a slice of life, particularly orientPd around the formation of a lesbian relation­ship and the struggles with living in New York. 
"It is a fabulous script from a great playwright," Slattery said. "It depicts charming characters and will be an enjoyable night of the­ater." 
"Stop Kiss" opens with New York native, Callie, meeting small-town Missouri-girl Sara. Sara is the epit­ome of naivete -a third-grade teacher, she won her job in New York as a part of a fellowship. She has come to New York, it seems, to escape the controlling hand of her parents and ex-boyfriend. As the friend of a friend, Sara is sent to meet Callie because her apartmont won't allow her to keep cats. When she meets Callie, a smart and savvy radio traffic reporter, a new friend­ship quickly forms. 
The light-hearted concept of life in a new and big city, as well as new friendships and foreign feel­ings of attraction, is tempered by the interlocking future plot involv­ing Sara being beaten into a coma as a result of violent "gay bashing." Callie is at a loss when this newly forming relationship is met with such hardship on the first night they kiss. The interchange of scenes goes back and forth between the novelty and awkward growth of a friendship into some­thing more and the police reports and hospital visits after the attack. Many different issues are touched on, including Sara and Callie's unfamiliar feelings for each other, as both of them have traditionally been involved with men in the past. Emotion and conflict are found before and after the attack. as the characters struggle onstage with how to express their new found care for each other as well as Callie fights to keep Sara from returning to Missouri with her par­ents and ex-boyfriend. 
While Cricket Slattery signed on to direct this show, she was forced to confront one of a director's worst nightmares -having an actress drop out of the show halfway into rehearsal. When the role of Sara became vacant just a day before winter break, the day before the cast had planned to have its first full run-thru of the show, Slattery had no choice but to step into the role of Sara, assisted in a great deal by her stage manag­er, Bryce Cooper. Cooper had a great deal to do with the success of this show and, Slattery shared, "if anyone owns this show, its Bryce." He did a great deal to take over Slattery's directing responsibilities as she worked to overcome the many problems with learning "Sara." 
"It was a pretty big blow to the cast," Slattery begun to start and to lose a munity so sud everyone." This change on Carole Ken rolP of Callie. "getting a rhyt person and the it," Kennelly sai ent Sara." 
The intimacy tension th significant 
actresses, as something that not "pornogr seems to once it of herself as of her cocky yp She goes back trolling the s and overt sexu matp, and since sense difl'icult t fast scene chan to relax more ani character gaJ 
throughout the o It is no doubt a the stresses appearing in th members of the her dedication. 
John Klein, Detective inv attack, shares t a great job of between acting Bryce." Klein ~ keep a fast pac~ ence, pushing along. Tom De back into the Callie's oft-time ease, creating a both likable a Layne Pantea of stiff character r the woman tha when the girl Brendan McGir tendency to yel rest of the thea creating a con< sympathized e Missouri. Caitli appearance as willing to takP Calli<~. and doe. almost saecharii 
This show is a at a handful of sions of not sin lifestyle, but lif realism is brou very effective \ small and rami arise throughou budding or det< ships. Cast me enees will go to an effort to ade in depth look a living a homose 
"We're not pia come to this sh saying 'Gosh, I Slattery said. " will take a loo shows. [For ex kiss that Sara a two lifetimes. It 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, January 26, 2005 
page 13 
xplore issues ofviolence, acceptance and homosexuality 
ing as a group, IH'r ol' tlw com­was a shock to 
a hugn impact who plays thP 
as a •·hallengl' down with orw aving to dwngn It's just a di!Ter­
d suhlln snxual 
l this show is a 
Pngf' to both 
llf'nlpl to nnatn 
nrPI't' and rnal. 
il'." KPnnPIIy 
whiln IH' unsurP 
, losing control 
ISPt'UrP nalllrP. 
l'orlh from eon­
with t'onl'idnncP 
to !wing inti­' with a natural 1~t·hiPvn with tlw ~. SlattPry SIH'nls morP as IH'I' OWII I S I' 0 n fi dOil e11 .1 rs11 ol' tlw show. ·uggln to balann1 
d irPding and show. But otlwr bmpany applaud 
I 
~·ho plays tho ligating Sara's !. "CrkkPt's donn ~idging th11 gap hd o!Tstagn with lnsPII' is able to Ln<! stron~ pres­
s 1n t n r v 1o w tH1 s
I
Ln SPt1mS to fall dn ol' Gnorge, m, with r11lative harad<•r that is strong, while ·tivPiy ITPatPS a 111 Mrs. Wins11ly, ·ails tho polir.P arn at tat~ ked. while lw has a t Calli11 and tlw ·, is PITnrlivP in n11d hut poorly lllyl'riend from llohn mak11s an hospital nurse me to comfort 
o with a swnet. e!Ter.t. en of life, a look 11 many dinwn­
a homosexual 
n general. That 
about in sonw 
s, partieularly 
r <:onl'licts that 
w eo u rsn oI' tlw 
rating ndation­
nrs hopn audi­
11 both shows in 
tPiy tak11 a more 
arious l'ac.111.s ol' 
lil'nstyle. 
ng on peopln to 
and walk away 
11 gay pnopln, "' 
ust hope pnople 
>nnstly at thnse 
In! behind the Callie share are :hristian charity to expnrient~n something before you 
discuss it. Truth is everyone's most 
pow11rl'ul woapon and its way 
undor-utilized on this campus." 
Whiln thn cast hopes this serios of 
shows will spark continued dis­
c.oursn on campus, "Stop Kiss," in 
conjunction with "Bent." cnmtns a 
poignant and 11ngaging w11nknnd of 
student theater. 
Bent 
II' you look baek through the 
annals ol' Notr11 Damn theatre his­
tory, it will hn tough l.o find any­
thing as stunning as "Bnnt." 
Th<' play by Martin Slwrman tnlls 
a story about tlw lifo ol' Max, a gay 
man living in Nazi Gnrmany. At thn 
lwginning of tlw play Max is living 
wilh his dancnr boyfrinnd Hudy in 
Bnlin. lin spends his nights in 
clubs and his days l'inding ways to 
mooch monny to pay his r<1nt. 
Wlwn Max attracts tl111 notic11 of thn 
wrong crowd of pnopln during a 
cocainn hinge lw and Hudy find 
thPmsnlvns on thn Iist of thn 
(;nstapo. 
In tlw sncond ad the play 
Pxplorns thn possibility of lovn 
within prison walls and undnr thn 
11yt1S of guards. /\way from the 
soda! sc1111n of B11rlin. Max has to 
discover nnw parts or himsnll' and 
tnst his capadty for love is a place 
when~. as 01111 charaeter says, mov­
ing rocks between a pit lillnd with 
d11ad bodios and a foru~o that ean 
turn a pnrson to dust is th11 bnst 
work. 
"Bnnt" is a far ery from other 
campus plays, and is as diflieult for 
thn actors as the audinncn. Thn 
eharactnrs arn diiTnront from any­
thing most of the actors have evnr 
playnd. 
"It's rough," s11nior T.J. McNally 
said about his rolo as Max. "l'vn 
nwtainly nnvnr had to do anything 
likn this bnforn." 
But thn actors l'ind it a wnkome 
challnngn. 
"This has dnfinitnly bonn thn 
most important play I've bnnn in," 
sophomore Conor Woods said about 
tlw r o In o I' Hudy. "It mad n m11 
proud to go to Notrn Damn." 
Tlw actors in "Bnnt" do w,nll with 
chalh111ging parts. It is difl'icult to liv11 up to tlw kind of role so similar to thos11 played by Adrian Brody or Liam Nonson. and McNally and Woods show courage in taking thnm on. Sophomoro l>row McElligott seems tho most comfort­able in the part ol' Horst, and ho and M<~Nally share a particular challnnge in aeting almost the entin~ socond act with only two pnoplo. Wnro thn parts filled by . Brody and Neeson thn play would almost hn too hnartbreaking to watd1; as perl'ornwd by the Student 
l'layors it is certainly not easy. 
"Bonl." was chosen in eonjunetion 
with "Stop Kiss" to foeus on prob­
lems faend by homosexuals, but 
director Mike Dolson wanted to 
find a play that would speak to 
Notre Dame students. 
"!\ lot of the plays arn a lot about 
tho AIDS epidemic," Dolson said. 
"One thing I liked about this play at 
Notre Dame is that it deals with issu11s of intolerance acceptance, and love. It relatos to Angels in America, but it rolatos to campus also." 

·Actors from thn porformanee hope the play will ndueato students on an aspnd of the lloloeaust that is rarnly mnntionnd. Prisonnrs with pink trianglns, to symbolizn homo­SI1Xuality, appear alongside those wnaring yellow stars, and evnn among otlwr prisoners in the eamp hneomo a group that is somntinws shu nnnd. 
"It will dnl'initnly bn a surprisn," McNally said. "W<1 lind most people don't r.omn to tho play having much knowledge ol' it, and I <~an sen how pnopln would be upset by it." 
"What I hope and think is that it will mak11 audiences aware of a part of history pnopln sometirnns forgot bncausn it's easinr that way," Woods said. 
'Mr.HIIigot snenwd more eoniidnnt about audience r11actions. 
"I think it's going to go ovnr w11ll," lw said. "It's a talented cast ernw, and thny put on a good, solid show. 
Trends in anything can some­limns bneomn ovnrplayed, and it is possible thn same thing will happen with plays addrnssing homosnxuali­ly. "Bnnt" is not tlw play to skip for fear that this has happened. 
",\'top Kiss" will play tonight and Saturday. "/lent" will play Thursday and Friday. Both plays will he performed at 7:30 p.m. on the Washington Hall Mainstage. Tickets are $5 and are available in /,aFortune or at the door. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu and KC Kenney at kkenney@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 26,_ 2005 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
No. 1 lllini break Badgers' 38-game home win streak 
Powell missed a jumper and
Illinois improves to 
Tucker hit an open 3-pointer at the other end. After Brown stole
20-0 behind 18-point 
Tucker's inbounds pass, Hayperformance by Head Nixon made an acrobatic block of Brown on a fast break and Associated Press Tucker scored again to make it 
MADISON, Wis. -Top-ranked 49-44. Williams turned it over Illinois ended Wisconsin's 38-and Taylor's basket made it 51­game home winning streak, the 44. nation's longest, beating the No. 6 Kansas 86, Baylor 66 Badgers 75-65 Tuesday night by While no longer undefeated, scoring 14 of the game's !ina! 15 No. 6 Kansas is still perfect in the points. Big 12 after Wayne Simien 
Led by Luther Head's 18 scored 18 points and the points, Illinois (20-0, 6-0 Big Ten) Jayhawks made a school-record snapped a five-game losing 16 3-pointers in a victory over streak in Madison and became Baylor. the first team to beat the Simien got the Jayhawks (15-1, Badgers at the Kohl Center since 5-0) oft' to a fast start with seven Wake Forest on Dee. 4, 2002. points -including the first two 
The 18th-ranked Badgers (13-baskets -in a 15-2 run to open 4, 4-2), who led by eight points the game. midway through the second half, While Simien didn't attempt a l'ell to 53-3 at home under coach 3-pointer, the four other Kansas Bo Hyan, including 26-1 in the players who scored in double fig­Big Ten. ures made at least three 3s each. 
The Badgers' most recent Jeff Hawkins was 5-for-5 on 3s home win came when they and had 15 points. Keith scored the final 11 points of the Langford added 17, J.R. Giddens game to beat Michigan State 62-14 and Aaron Miles 11. 
59. Kansas was coming off a sur­
Wisconsin took at 64-61 lead prising 83-62 loss at Villanova on on Alando Tucker's drive to the Saturday that knocked the basket with 4:31 left. But dreams Jayhawks from the ranks of the "We said you guys need to hitting all six of his 3-pointers, to freshman LaMarcus Aldridge of Wisconsin's first win over a undefeated. The misery of their make up for the loss of Chuck. lead No. 16 Texas to a victory was sidelined indefinitely with a top-ranked opponent since beat­trip got extended when they got They've never seen Chuck hurt over Texas Tech. hip injury. ing Ohio State in 1962 soon stuck in Philadelphia an extra before. I'll be honest, I don't The Longhorns (15-4, 4-2 Big But neither was ever much of a faded. day because of the weekend bliz­think I've ever seen Chuck hurt," 12) went 14-of21 from 3-point 3-point threat when they were 
James Augustine, who was zard that hit the Northeast. Kentucky coach Tubby Smith range and made four in a row on the floor and were hardly limited by foul trouble to 4 min­The Jayhawks had little trou­said. "It showed me what our during one key stretch midway missed once the Longhorns start­utes in the first half, made two ble against Baylor (9-7, 1-4), kids are all about. They really through the second half. It was ing launching shots. free throws with 4:11 left and which has lost 14 straight care about one another. They the eighth game this season Texas' zone held the Hed Jack Ingram did the same at against ranked opponents and is certainly care about Chuck." Texas has hit at least 10 3s. Raiders to 10-of-40 shooting in 3:39, putting the Illini ahead for just 1-10 overall against Kansas. Patrick Sparks scored 19 Kenton Paulino added 16 the first half. good, 65-64. Baylor never got closer than points and Kelenna Azubuike points and Brad Buckman had No. 19 Connecticut 68, West 
Augustine, who scored 12 of seven points after Kansas' game­added 17 for the Wildcats, who 14 rebounds for Texas. Virginia 58 his 14 points in the second half, opening run. outrebounded Tennessee 41-29 Ronald Hoss scored 29 points Connecticut's Rashad Anderson added consecutive dunks to No. 7 Kentucky 84, Tennessee and had 21 offensive rebounds. and Devonne Giles added 18 for didn't seem to mind watching the make it 69-64. 62 "All around, we kept our confi­Texas Tech (11-5, 3-2), which start of a game from the bench 
The only break in Illinois' run Senior forward Chuck Hayes dence," Azubuike said about los­came in as the Big 12's top-scor­for the first time this season. came when Kammron Taylor has played in every game and ing Hayes. ing team but shot just 37 percent Anderson scored 16 of his 22 made one free throw with 1 :07 never even missed a practice Sophomores Bobby Perry and against Texas' new zone defense. points in the second half to lead left to make it 71-65. because of injury since he's been Sheray Thomas each had seven Gibson and Paulino hit four 3-the 19th-ranked Huskies to a 
Deron Williams added 13 at Kentucky. rebounds. pointers in a 2-minute span of victory over slumping West points for Illinois and Hoger His sudden disappearance at "Each player that came in did the second half that saw the VIrginia. Powell Jr. had 11. Tennessee on Tuesday night was something positive for us Longhorns build the biggest lead Anderson was benched by 
Tucker had 16 points for shocking but didn't seem to hurt throughout the night, and that ofthe game, 65-49. UConn coach Jim Calhoun Wisconsin and Sharif Chambliss the seventh-ranked Wildcats. was the big key to the game," Ross kept the Red Raiders from despite scoring a team-high 19 added 14 and Mike Wilkinson 13. Hayes, one of two returning Smith said. "I liked our poise. fading away, hitting six 3-point­points in a loss to Pittsburgh on 
The Badgers, who trailed 35-starters this season for Kentucky, We're starting to mature." ers to pull Tech within 72-67 Saturday. 33 at halftime, were just 5-of-12 broke his nose midway through The Volunteers (10-9, 3-3) with just under 3 minutes left. Calhoun said Denham Brown from the free throw line and the first half while the Wildcats went ahead twice in the first The game was a defensive bat­earned the starting nod by play­Illinois was 17 -of-20. were on a run that put them half, when the Wildcats lost their tle before the fireworks started. ing harder than Anderson in sub­
With the score tied at 44 in the ahead for good en route to a vic­leader, top rebounder and sec­Texas, which has rarely used a sequent practices. opening minutes of the second tory. ond-leading scorer. zone, stayed in one the entire "I winked at (Anderson) before half, the Badgers committed two Using various lineups full of Kentucky officials said Hayes game in an effort to ease wear­the game and said, 'Hey, you loose ball fouls on one possession freshmen and sophomores, the was taken to the hospital for X­and-tear on a depleted roster may not even play today,"' and appeared to be cracking Wildcats (15-2, 6-0 Southeastern rays, and they would know more and avoid foul trouble. Calhoun joked. under the pressure. Conference) made up for Hayes' about his status on Wednesday. Texas is down to just eight Anderson responded by going 
Instead, they were about to loss with aggressive rebounding No. 16 Texas 80, Texas Tech scholarship players after P.J. 6-of-9 from the field -including take control -at least for a on both ends to remain the only 73 Tucker was declared academi­four 3-pointers -and made all while. undefeated team in league play. Daniel Gibson scored 20 points, cally ineligible last week and six free throws in 27 minutes. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: CAR KEYS w/Caesar's keyring near JACC Monday morning. 
DIRECTOR OF YOUTH MINISTRY 
St. Paul s Catholic Church (3400· family parish), Jacksonville Beach, FL is searching for a Director of Youth Ministry. Requirements/skills required include: 
FoR SALE 
Complete working computers $125 574-286·3295. 
2-6 bedroom homes for 05·06 Walking distance from ND. MMMRentals.com 532-1408 New 4­bdrm,3-bath home.Avail 8/05. Cathedral ceiling, fireplace, deluxe kitchen, skylights, 2-car garage, family room, 1Ox20 deck. Safe area. Call 574·232-4527 or 269-683-5038 DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2·5-7·8 BED· ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. 

Spring Break 2005 with STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800·648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 
Reward offered. Call507-304-0446. 
WANTED 
BOSOX FANS check out newyorkchokees.net 
Professor needs part-time babysitter for three year old boy, 
please call1-3770. 
a Bachelor s degree with a back· ground in Catholic teachings and the· ology, working with teens, families and volunteers along with oganizational, communication and leadership skills. Position requires a background screening. Interested individuals email maryhuli· han@yahoo.com to receive inforrna­tional packet providing more exten­sive information regarding this posi­lion. Resumes must be received no later than 2/15/05. 
One bedroom condo near UNO. Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim Kollar 
FoR RENT 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR.TWO BEDROOM, TWO BATHS. HURRY 235·7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail· able NOW. Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574·229-3659 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005·2006 Academic year-Available June 1 ,2005 2 Bedrooms-2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System. Fully Furnished (574)233-7373 or Salvaty@earth­link. net MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3·4-5-6-7· 8·1 0 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574·234·2436 OR 574·315-5032. 

PERSONAL 
Good Luck Lady Irish!! Beat St. John's Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity· Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.corn 1·800-678-6386 

Cheapest 2005 Spring Break $499 all-inclusive, all drinks, all food, all parties! www.needspringbreak.com 1-866-668-9037. 
oobergobbervan degooberstopper dan is crazy 
Wt:dnesday, January 26, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
Officials work to settle labor dispute, save season 
League, union plan to meet today hoping to make progress towards agreement 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-The NIIL and tho players' assodation arn tak­ing anothor shot at saving the hockey season, whieh has bmm on the brink of cancellation for weeks. 
A two-day meeting last week produced no tangible progress toward a labor agreement. The league and the union will meet again Wndnesday in Toronto, but no formal proposal will bn pnl­sentnd by the h1ah'l.W. 
Bill Daly, the NllCs chief lngal ollicer, said Tuesday his negotiat­ing team met this past weekend to discuss nnw ideas and address some issues raised by NIIL Players' Association president Trevor Linden, the Vancouver 
Canucks center who initiated last issues and maybe jointly craft 
week's  meet­ sornnthing that  
ing.  might  work,"  
"Both parties agreed at last week's meeting that the time  "The time for formal pro­posals, at least during this process, may be  Daly told The Canadian Press. "And that's what we're going to  
for formal pro­ behind us."  continuo to do."  
posals, at least  The  same  
during this proeess, may be behind us  Bill Daly NHL chief legal officer  group of nego­tiators that met in Chicago and  
and we should  Toronto  will  
try to sit at the  gather  again:  

table and discuss through the Linden, NIILPA senior direetor 
Thirsty for knowledge? Say when. 
At Ernst & Young, the opportunity for growth is enormous. We offer over 
7,000 professional development programs-some of the best formal 
learning programs in the country -because our philosophy is People First. 
We recognize that our employees are essential to the firm's growth and
FORTUNE. 

success. And in order to attract the best talent, we've built an environment
100 BEST that Fortune® magazine has consistently recognized as one of the "100 Best 
COMPANIES ;g Companies To Work For." So whether you're looking for a place to grow or a 
TO WORK FOR~ great place to work, look for our recruiters on campus. ey.comjusjcareers 
Audit • Tax • Tran~action Advisory Services i!/ ERNST&YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 

Ted Saskin and outside counsel John McCarnbridgn as well as Daly, board of governors chair­man llarley llotchkiss and out­side counsel Bob Batterman. Again, NIIL commissioner Gary Bettman and NJII.PA executive director Bob Goodenow will sit this one out. 
The lockout, whieh rnached iL'i 132nd day Tuesday, alrnady has forced the cancellation of 691J of 1,230 rohrular-season gamos, plus the All-Star game. 
No proposals have bnnn madn sim~P early l>ncmnbPr, when the players olferod a 24 percent roll­bal~k on all existing contrac.L'i as part of a luxury-tax and rnvenue­sharing systmn. The NIIL turned that down and made a counter­proposal five days latnr that was rnjeded in a matter of' hours. II' the snason is wiped out, the Stanlny Cup wouldn't be awardml l'or tho first time since IIJIIJ, when a flu npidmnic eancelod the final series between Seattle and Montrnal. Tho NII L would tlmn become tho first major North American sports league to losn an entiro season bocauso of' a labor disputo. Optimism was oxprossod last Wednesday all!H· tim first day of' moetings when Linden and llotchkiss had a chance to talk ono-on-on1~. The good li~eling did­n't carry ovor to the ·noxt day, though, and l.irul<m reportedly told players in a recorded nws­sagt~ on tho players' Web site that tho NIII. was still insisting on a salary eap and that the season would likely be cancolod. Daly said he was surprised that Linden eamo away l'rom tho meetings with that opinion because the NIII. l'olt that somo progress was made. Both sides admitted that they worn still far apart on tho key issue. The Nlll. wanL<; tho nnw deal to give dubs eost eertainty -a link between revenues and player costs. The union says that amounts to an unacceptable salary cap. 

SUPPli~S 
Poker Chips hom ~4.95/50 Texas Holdem Tables hom~ 199.97 Poker Tables hom t299.00 
Rentals Available 
Large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 

4UIIS10 

50510 St. Rd. 933N •South Bend 
574·272·1617 
-

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, January 26, 2005 
NBA 

Bulls overpower Nuggets in 111-107 victory 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Kirk llinrich scored 23 points and Eddy Curry shook off a groin injury to add 14 in the fourth quarter, sending the surging Chicago Bulls past the Denver Nuggets for their 11th win in 12 games. 
Denver broke Chicago's string of holding opponents under 100 points at 26 games, but could­n't pull out the victory despite getting 32 points-15 in the fourth quarter -from Carmelo Anthony. 
With their fourth straight win in five nights, the Bulls moved two games over .500 after an 0-9 start. 
Before the game, Denver gen­eral manager Kiki Vandeweghe met with George Karl about the team's coaching position, but the job was not offered to Karl. 
"We had a conversation. That's about it," Vandeweghe said at halftime. "The meeting was private. I have talked to a few other people." 
Denver is 4-9 since interim coaeh Miehael Cooper replaced Jeff Bzdelik, who was fired after a 13-15 start. 
Nene, returning from a four­game suspension, seored 19 for the Nuggets. Ben Gordon had 18 for the Bulls and Andres Nocioni sealed the win with two free throws with 12 seconds to go. 
Curry, averaging 15.7 points, did not start beeause of a sore left groin and went scoreless in two first-half minutes. 

He started the second half and scored two points before leaving again after less than four minutes. But he re-entered to start the fourth and right away made his presence felt with 11 quick points on a three­point play, three dunks and a hook to help the Bulls take a 96-88 lead. 
Anthony had six points in a 7­0 Denver run that cut it to one with just under four minutes left. Curry hit a hook and Tyson Chandler made two free throws as Chicago went up by five. Phoenix 133, New York 118 
Quentin Richardson made seven of Phoenix's 16 3-point­ers, Jim Jackson added five shots from behind the arc and the Suns had their highest point total of the season in a victory over the New York Knicks. 
The Suns tied a team record with their 16 3s, the last of which -by Hichardson with 
1:42 left-ended the Knicks' final chance. 
Amare Stoudemire scored 29 points, Richardson had 25, Joe Johnson 24 and Shawn Marion 20 for Phoenix, which easily eclipsed its previous season high of 124 points. 
The loss was the seventh in a row for the struggling Knicks, who obviously have not latched onto new coach Herb Williams' emphasis on defense. The 133 points were a season high for a Knicks opponent, and the 16 3­pointers were the most ever allowed in franchise history. 
Boston 97, Charlotte 92 
For the Boston Celtics to break their nine-game road los­ing streak. they had to learn to le.t Paul Pierce carry them down the stretch. 
That was the message coach Doc Rivers delivered, and the Celtics heard him loud and elear. 
Pierce scored 14 of his 33 points in the fourth quarter to lead Boston to a victory over the Charlotte Bobcats, who lost their ninth in a row overall. 
"The guys made an effort to really look to me, I don't think that's been the case in the past," Pierce said. "Yesterday in practice Doc said this is what we need to do, establish some­thing in the fourth quarter. 
"That's what most teams need to do, go to the best play­er in the fourth quarter and . expect him to make plays. I'm our best player." 
Pierce helped the Celtics by making 10 free throws in the final period, and 13 of 16 in all. He also grabbed three defen­sive rebounds in the final peri­od and had two steals. 
Pierce hit what appeared to be the game-sealing jumper with 1:22 to play. But Jason Hart made a 3-pointer with 28 seconds left to cut it to 94-91. 
Gary Payton made a pair of free throws for Boston, but the Bobcats still had a chance with four free throw attempts. 
Once again, they faltered at the line. Primoz Brezec made just one of his shots and Emeka Okafor missed both of his attempts. 
Pierce then sealed it with a free throw with 13 seconds to play to give the Celtics a road victory for the first time since Dec. 18 in Cleveland. 
Memphis 95, Orlando 83 
The Memphis Grizzlies got 

Saturday, .January 29, 2005 2:00pm 
Meets in the Pro Shop in Rockne Memorial 
Cost is $10.00 -Includes Rental 
Register in advance at RecSports. Registration begins January 24, 2005 @8:00a.m. 
Must have Notre Dame 1.0. 

Clinic open to all N.D. students, faculty/staff, retirees, and their spouses. For more information ca111-6100 or visit recsports.nd.edu 
aggressive on defense down the stretch. 
Stromile Swift had 18 points and nine rebounds, leading the Grizzlies over the Orlando Magic. 
Memphis, which had seven players in double figures, outscored the Magic 18-4 in the final 4:05 to secure its 12th win in 14 games. Orlando lost its second straight and has dropped three of four. 
"We just picked up our defen­sive intensity and got stops," Swift said. "We rebounded the ball at the end of the game, and that was the key." 
The Grizzlies needed the bal­anced offense after Pau Gasol, their leading scorer and rebounder, was placed on the injured list earlier in the day with a left foot injury. In addi­tion, key reserve Bonzi Wells sat out with a groin strain. 
"There's no panic," Swift said. "We've got enough guys on this team with talent who can play. When somebody goes down, we can replace them." 
James Posey and Lorenzen Wright each scored 12 points and grabbed eight rebounds. Earl Watson and Shane Battier. who helped during the final rally, added 11 points apiece, although they were a combined 7 -of-22 from the field. Grant Hill and Steve Francis led Orlando with 18 points each, and Francis added six assists. Rookie guard Jameer Nel-son scored 17. 
It marked the seeond straight night the Magic couldn't capi­talize on their opponent being without its top scorer. Houston played without Tracy McGrady, who was tending to a family emergency, while defeating the Magic 89-78 on Monday night. 
M()ne~ m()ne~ m()ney 


"That's tough, man," Francis said. "We faced the same thing (Monday) night and couldn't get it done." 
The teams exchanged leads midway through the final peri­od. A three-point play by Swift followed by a 3-pointer by Mike Miller and two free throws and a tip-in by Battier capped a 10­0 run, giving Memphis an 87­79 lead with 1:31 left. Orlando never got doser the rest of the way. 
"It wasn't a very pretty game up until the last five minutes," Battier said. "We really willed the victory. Guys made huge shots and then just huge plays. In a game like that, when it is kind of ugly, that's often the dif­ference." 
Memphis led by as many as 11 in the first half, but Nelson and Hill keyed a second-quar­ter Magic rally, tying the game 42-all at halftime. llill had 14 points, and Nelson hit his first five shots from the field for 11 points. 
Wednesday, January 26, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
-



















January 26,2005
FAITHPOINT 
TOAIGHT

Matters of the Heart 
FIII/I:]
by GREG RUEHLMANN 
Campus Ministry Intern 

10-11 pm CoMo I.JOnnge
10 pm

The Notre Dame family is mourning the loss of Daniel 
Topic: "Charity, Service,
Legends and has left an indellible mark. 
Kish, who, though only here a short time, was fully one ofus 
Topic: ·Pornography· & Love" As our community grieves, it's very important to focus on an issue which deeply af1ected Dan's life and death. It 
TDDAY, 1/26 
SUNDAY, 1/30
is an issue which affects the lives of many, and may one day 
*.Four:7 (see above) 
*10:00 am Mass (Basilica)
affect you as well. 

*Theology on Tap (see above) *11 :45 am Mass (Basilica)
When Dan Kish was in high school, he became one of *Sant'Egidio Prayer Community *Spanish Mass (1:30pm, St. Ed~')the over 2,000 heart transplant recipients in the U.S. each 
(6:30pm, Log Chapel) 
*Law School Massyear. It's a brave, remarkable group of individuals. Put 
(5 pm, Law School Chapel) 
yourself in their shoes. Faced with death, you undergo a 
THURSDAY, I /27 
*MBA Mass
surgery in which the ailing heart that has sustained your life *Muslim Prayer Service 
(7 pm, Mendoza Faculty Lounge) 
is cut out ofyour chest. You're kept alive until the donated *Rejoice! Mass
(7-Bpm, 330 Coleman-Morse) (9 pm, CoMo Chapel) 
heart can be prepared and attached. Even if the surgery 
succeeds, you still face the ever-present danger of rejection. This is to say nothing ofthe agony ofthe waiting list, 
FRIDAY, 1/28 which people like Daniel know well. Imagine needing a 
MDNDAY, 1/31
*Freshman Retreat #57 
transplant to survive, but knowing you'll have to wait weeks 
(1128-29, 
*Applications due for NDE #85 and months before a donation match can be made. 
Sacred Heart Parish Center) 
(Retreat 2125-2127) 
This is the frightening reality oforgan donation. Thou­
*EI Encuentro con sands wait intcnninably, because there simply aren't enough 
Nuestra Fe Retreat potential donors. Dan Kish needed a second transplant, and 
TUESDAY, 2/1
(1128-30, Oakwood) 
he carried a cell phone that was set to ring ifa potential 
*Bible Study with match was found. But Dan's fate, sadly, is all too common. 
l''r. Frank Zagorc
SATURDAY, 1/29
The U.S. government reports, "Each day about 70 people 
(7:30-9:30pm
*Vigil Mass (5 pm, Basilica)
receive an organ transplant, but another 16 people on the 
316 Coleman-Morse)
*Solemn Mass of the Blessedwaiting list die because not enough organs are available." 
Virgin Mary
This issue matters a great deal to me. My grandmother, 
(9am, Alumni Chapel)
Leah Budde, received the gif} of life three times through organ transplants. Because she had a deadly heart disease, her doctors told her in 1987 transplantation was her only 
LIVE IT!!!

hope. Her body slowly rejected the first transplant, how­ever, and by 1990 Grandma needed a new heart. For six months, she lived in a hospital bed waiting for a donor match. Finally, a new heart came through. This heart lasted, but years ofanti-rejection medicine wore down her kidneys as well. Once again, my grandmother found herself 
Ifyou pass the Campus Ministry Welcome Center between 6:00 and 9:00PM on Tuesday night on a waiting list until a kidney transplant in 1993 saved her 
stop in and say hi to Pat Manning. While you're there, pick up a retreat application. Pat, a life. 
sophomore from Siegfried Hall is the man behind Siegfried's first ever weekend-long retreat. In Words fail when I try to express the tear-filled gratitude 
addition to his stellar atmouncements at the end of donn Mass, Pat can hook you up information 
about what's going on in CM. Why? Because he wants people to find out who they are; what my family feels for those saintly souls who gave life to our gives them joy, and knows that a little work on his part, handing someone a retreat application, beloved Leah. When she died in 1998, it was with the 
goes a long way.
know ledge that her decade of suffering was also a decade 
of grace. It was ten years of life literally gifted to her by 
Pat's commitment to a life offaith doesn't end there. As a CM Commissioner he has organized an families in the midst ofhorrible tragedy. 
Emmaus Small Faith Sharing Group between Siegfried and PW. Now that's an innovative way to All three of the organs my grandmother received came 
center your faith and social life. from donors in their late teens and early twenties-the same 
Pat's favorite part about working for CM? "Spending hours on end cleaning wax out of candle
age as most of us. Each made the choice to become holders."
potential donors. To my mind, what they did was the 
quintessential act ofChristian charity. In their dying, they 
Send nominations to Schuster. 13(q{nd.edu! gave life. If you have not registered as a potential donor in 
Catholic Q&A

your state, I beg you to do so. Remember too that events 
like the Howard Bone Marrow Drive in April provide other 
What's the deal with Confession? Can't I go directly to Godfor forgiveness? 
Of all the misunderstood confess, the priest acts as the I can only imagine the grief of the Kish family at this important opportunities to help. 
Catholic Sacraments, the Sacrament representative ofthe community time. But I am confident that they echo my words. God 
of Reconciliation (or Confession) and provides a verbal assurance ranks right up there. Great light can of God's forgiveness, anforbid that something happens to you or yours which de­
be shed on this Sacrament if we first assurance that is much moremands a transplant; or. that tragedy strikes in a way that look at how Christ instituted it. In the concrete than the sometimes­makes donating your organs possible. But I pray that, Gospel of John, soon after the elusive feeling coming from should the situation arise, all ofus can answer Christ's call Resurrection, Jesus appears to the direct confession to God alone. 
to give love and life to others-to give, as it were, our hearts 
disciples, saying: "Receive the holy In addition, the priest is able to away. 
Spirit. Whose sins you forgive are all the priests that they in turn offer counsel that may help us 
1---------------------------lforgiven them, and whose sins you ordained, this ministry of to avoid sin in the future, It is retain are retained" (John 20:22·23, spiritual healing was passed true that only God can forgive
Fourth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
NAB). Jesus commissioned the on. sins, but Jesus Himself
1st 2nd Gospel 
Apostles to minister to all God's To understand commissioned priests to be the
Zephaniah I Corinthians Matthew 2:3; 3:12-13 1:26-31 S:J-12a 
people, giving them the power to Confession, we also need to human instruments of God's 
forgive sins in His Name. The Catholic examine the nature of sin. forgiveness, that through the 

Church affirms that this power of When we sin, we offend both Sacrament ofReconciliation we
Phone 

forgiveness did not stop with the Godandourcommunity. No might be assured of God's
1-7800 death of the last Apostle, but was matter how seemingly mercy!
Web 

passed on as the Apostles (the first personal, each sin weakens
campusministry.nd.edu bishops) selected those who were to the mission of the Church, the
Main Office 

come after them. Thus, to each bishop Body of Christ in the world.
319 CoMo ordained throughout history and to When one goes to a priest to
Retreats Office 

Campus Ministry 
Senc:l out uestions to Perkins.26@nd.edu!
114 CoMo 


,. 

Wednesday, January 26, 2005 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hoinesick Jackson transfers to Houston 
Purdue freshman guard decides to play closer to home 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE -Home­sick freshman Tye Jackson has left the Purdue women's bas­ketball team and will transfer to the University of Houston. 
The 5-foot-9 guard, last year's high school Miss Basketball in Texas, said she never fully adjusted to life away from her family in Houston. 
"It started getting worse," Jackson said. "As the days went on, I still wanted to go home. 
''I've tried to fight through it. I had my ups and downs, and I don't want to bring any nega­tive things to my teammates by me wanting to go home and not giving 100 percent out there," she told the Journal and Courier. 
Jackson started rive of 17 games with the Boilermakers, averaging 6.8 points, 2.6 rebounds and 1.6 assists. Her season best was 20 points against Houston on Nov. 30, but her playing time dwindled since the start of Big Ten Conference schedule, mainly because of the improved play 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS ~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

of freshman Lindsay Wisdom­Hylton. 
Jackson played two minutes in Sunday's 79-7 5 victory over Iowa. 
"I haven't been giving 100 percent, and that's why my minutes have been going down," she said. "I haven't been giving my all, and coach knows that." 
Jackson approached coach Kristy Curry two weeks ago about leaving Purdue. 
"She knew how I felt four months ago," Jackson said. "It wasn't anything new for her. When I felt like talking, she was there for me. Almost every day I've been here I've been thinking about home. It wasn't one specific day that it all hit me." 
Jackson said she would begin classes at Houston on Thursday. As a transfer player, she will have to sit out the 2005-06 season but will have three years of eligibility after that. 
Curry said Jackson had struggled this season because of her homesickness. 
"She wants to be back with her family in Houston," Curry said. "She is a very talented player, and we were happy to have her at Purdue. But as the weeks went on, it became clear that she was not happy here." 

TiCKETS ON SALE NOW AT THI! PERFORMING ARTS CI!NTI!R BOX OFFICI! $S STUDENTS • $5 PACU:LTYISTAPF • GI!T "I!M WHILI! THI!Y LAST ! SCREENINGS 7PM & 10 PM EACH NIGHT • NO SUN,DAY SCREENING • WYMI'.N.D.E:OUI-Fn PRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELE'VJSION. AND THEATRE 

Volunteer Opportunities 
Salsa Aerobics 
The Larina women of "Co­
madres" are very interested in 
starting a "low-impact aerobics" 
or "move to Salsa music" type 
group. They need a volunteer 
who would be willing to lead 
the group for one hour per week 
in the early evening. If inter­
ested contact Marcia Good at 
mgood 1 @nd.edu. 
Spanish Speakers 
The Notre Dame Immigra­tion Clinic needs volunteers who are fluent in Spanish both to translate legal documents and to help with diems. The clinic is on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5-7pm. Contact Barbara Szweda at 1-7637, if interested. 
Babysitting 
La Casa de Amistad holds a meeting for mothers called "Comadres" the third Thursday of every month. Volunteers are needed to take care of about 5-10 children from 4:30-6:30pm. Please contact Marcia Good at mgood I @nd.edu. 
Tutoring Children 
Greater Holy Temple is in need of tutors for their Tuesday evening tutoring program, which runs from 7 -8pm. The address of the church is 710 Napoleon Blvd. If interested, call Jean Cane at 1-5685. 

Empowering Women to End Violence 
''A Survey ofViolence against Women Worldwide." Students Anamaria Scaperlanda-Ruiz and Christina Dehan, will present as part of the Maria Goretti Project. 
When: Wed., Jan. 26, 7 p.m. Where: 330 Coleman-Morse 
Prayer for Women Affected byViolence 
When: Thurs., Jan. 27, 7 p.m. Where: Walsh Hall Chapel 
"A Personal Look at Autism" 
Michael John Carley, parent of a son with Asperger's syndrome, will speak about his experiences with autism as a parent and as an individual with high functioning autism. 
When: Sat., January 29, 9 a.m.-12 p.m. and 1-4 p.m. Where: 141 DeBartolo 
Race and Religion Symposium 
SUB presents three nationally recognized spoken word artists to speak on issues of race and religion. 
Social Entrepreneurship 
When: Fri., Jan. 28th, 2-3 p.m. Where: Foster Room (3rd floor LaFun) 
Hip Hop And Social Action 
When: Fri., Jan. 28 5-6 p.m. Where: McNeill Room (1st Floor LaFun) 
Poetry Workshop 
Contact Nancy Walsh, 203 LaFun, to sign up for a poetry work­shop with the attending poets. 
When: Sat., Jan. 29 from 12-2 p.m. Where: NO Room (2nd floor LaFun). 
SSP Information Session 
Come learn about exciting opportunities with the Summer Service Project Internship. The SSPI is an. eight-week service­learning experience at roughly 200 agencies and organizations throughout the Unites States. 
When: Wed., Jan. 26 -6:30 p.m. 
Where: Multi-purpose Room, Center for Social Concerns 
International Service Programs 
Returned Volunteers from Holy Cross Associates -Chile; Farm ofthe Child • Honduras; Jesuit Volunteers International­South Africa, Nicaragua; Maryknoll-China;Comboni Lay Missioners-Ghana 
When: Thurs., Jan. 27 6:00 p.m. 
Where: Coffeehouse, Center for Social Concerns 
Mercy Works Information Session 
Chicago's Mercy Home for Boys & Girls, a residential care facility for troubled children, has a full-time volunteer program called MERCYWORKS. Mercy Home is seeking a select and diverse group ofhighly motivated and mature men and women interested in joining in our mission to work with the hurting youth who live at Mercy Home. The next group ofMERCY­WORKS volunteers will serve from August of 2004 until July of2005. 
When: Wed., Jan. 26, 8:30-9:30 p.m. 
Where: Lounge, Center for Social Concerns 
Amate House Information Session 
This is a one year service program in Chicago. The session will be presented by rhree NO grads who are curremly serving with the program. 
Where: Wed., January 26, 8:00-9:00 p.m. 
When: Coffeehouse, Center for Social Concerns 
Wednesday, January 26, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
-

Players released on bond after Palace brawl 
Judge bans five Pacers from The_ Palace, 
issues personal bonds 
to involved players 
Associated Press 
HOCIIESTEH IIILLS, Mich. ­Five Indiana Pacers players and three fans charged with misdemeanor assault and bat­tory in the brawl at The Palace of' Auburn llills appeared in court Tuesday and were released on personal bonds. 
The Pacers players appeared separately for about throe minutes before District Judge Lisa Asadoorian, who met extensively with each or their lawyers before the hearing. 
Asadoorian allowed the play­ers to leave the st.at~1 because they do not live or work here. She barred them from the Palace "except for employ­ment-related purposes." 
Hon Artest, Ste hen Jackson, 

50°/o OFF Wednesday only @Jimmy John's! 
$1 Dogs &$1 Draughts all week @K's! 
FREE Sweet &Sour Chicken with any $20 order @Golden Dragon 
Just add www.simpledine.com to your AIM or facebook profile for a chance to win FREE FOOD for an entire month! AOL 
lNi>TANT 
Mt:S!tilNGU: .. 

also is charged with misde­meanor assault and battory. David Wallace was not in court Tuesday, but his attorney appnarnd on his behalf, said Oakland County Assistant Prosecutor Paul Walton. llis casn was adjourned until a later date. 
Ackerman and Paulson wnro reloased on $500 personal bonds, meaning they also did not have to post any money bef'om leaving the courthouse. 
Green, who has a criminal record, was relnased on a $1,000 personal bond. lie's accusnd of throwing thn cup that sparked the Nov. II) brawl. 
Prosecutors say Creon tossod a drink at Art.est. who then charged into the stands and attacked a man he thought had done it. 
Green's attorney, Barton W. Morris Jr., told Asadoorian that his client is a recovering alcoholic who 

identify Jarkson as tlw chair­thrownr. But Asadoorian rulnd that vidnotapn and witnnss ti1S­timony wnrn nnough to movn the casn forward. 
Three brawl vidnos -two of whieh wnn1 takPn by spneta­tors in tlw upp11r lnvnl -wnrn shown in court as wit.rwssns tostilied. 
Thn two amatnur vidnos shownd a man in a haekward baseball cap and dark jaeknt hurling a chair above his head. 
Video takon by WDIV-TV in Dotroit shows thn man, who prosecutors say is Jackson, loosnning the chair !'rom tlw rows of V II' so at i n g on tlw 1'1 o o r o f Tho I' a la en . i\ t o rw point the man is snnn looking straight at the 1:anwra. 
A Palacn mnploynn tnstil'ind that Jackson was a snason­ticket holdnr and that h.is tick­
ets wnrn  usnd that night. llis  
tickets  havn  since  been  
revoked.  
Auburn llills  

has been pol iee 0 ITiee r 
"For the first three
attending Jamns Stoinski 
d a i I y weeks, I had constant and Julin Alcoholics headaches and nausea. Sor.ia, who Anonymous works in guns!.
Since then. I've had a
meetings. relations at The judge headache every day." The l'alacn, 
o r d e r e d both testif'ied Greon to con­that thny wnrn
Julie Socia 
tinue attend­struck by a 
guest relations
ing the meet­chair during 
ings, not pos­sess alcohol or illegal drugs and undergo random drug tnsting. 
Another !'an, 37-year-old Bryant Jackson, was ordered Tuesday to stand trial on a felonious assault. charge for allegedly tossing a chair. 
During a preliminary exami­nation that also took place in Asadoorian's courtroom, Jackson's attorney, Kennf1th Karasiek. argued there wasn't enough evidence to prosecute his eliont becauso no witnosses were at the Palace the night of' the b.-awl who could positively 
..

thn lighting. 
"For the first three wonks, I had cin1stant headaehes and nausea. Sinen then, I've had a headachn every day," Socia tnsti find. 
On Monday, a spectator who police say was punched by two players during the fight plead­ed no contest to violating a local ordinance that prohibits fans from entering the basket­ball court during an NBA game. 
Charlie lladdad, 21, of' Burt, is sr.heduled to hn snntenend March 16. lin f'acns up to IJO days in jail or a $500 fine. 

INCOME TAX PREPARATION Daniel F. Osberger, CPA & MBA 
Call to Meet at Your Campus Office or l lome W: 246-1165 C: 514-7453 OASIS FINANCIAl, SERVICES 
Osberger Accounting Solutions & Investment Services 
203 S. Ironwood Drive South Bend, IN 46556 E-mail: Dan.()sbergcr@Comcast.Net 
., 

~­
1 
I 
I 
OUND THE NATION 
page 20 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WlRE SERVICES Wednesday, January 26, 2005 

Men's College .. Basketball Big East Conference 
team Big East Overall 
Syracuse 7·0 20·1 Boston College 5·0 16·0 NOTRE OAME 4-2 12·4 Connecticut 4-2 12·4 Georgetown 4-2 13·5 Pittsburgh 3-2 13·3 Villanova 2-3 10·4 Seton Hall 1-4 9-7 West Virginia 1·5 11-6 St. John's 1-5 7-9 Rutgers 1·5 7-9 Providence 0·4 9·8 
Women's College Basketball Big East Conference 
team Big Hast overall 
Boston College 5·0 14-2 Connecticut 5·0 12-4 Rutgers 4·1 13-4 NOTRE OAME 4-2 16·3 Villanova 4·2 11-6 St. John's 3·3 14-3 Pittsburgh 3·3 11·6 West Virginia 2-4 11-6 Syracuse 2·4 10·7 Seton Hall 2-5 10-8 Georgetown 1·5 6·11 Providence 0·6 1-16 
Men's Hockey CCHA Conference 
team CCHA overall 
Michigan 16·2-0 19-6·1 Ohio State 13-4·1 16-7-3 Northern Michigan 10·5·3 12-7-5 Nebraska-Omaha 10·8-2 
Michigan State 8~94 t);~~1l~~······ Bowling Green .7•7~2 10-9-3 Alaska Fairbanks 7·10·1 8·11·1 
Lake Superior State 6·7-3 7-13-4 Miami (Ohto) . 540.3 9~13·4 . Ferris State ~H1.,3 ·······• 6nrsPt 
Western Michigan 5~10~1 1041~1 NOTRE DAME 3-11-4 5·16·5 
·························································w····· 
Men's Hockey NCAA Top15 
team 
1 Colorado College (40) 
600 2 Boston College 546 3 Michigan 007 4 Minnesota 493 . 5 Wisconsin 434 6 Denver 358 7 New Hampshire 353 8 Colgate 
2$1 9 Cornett 266 10 Ohio State Z36 11 Boston University 197 12 North Dakota 163 13 l:larilard 14 Vermont 15 Massachusetts-Lowell 
around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Marquette at Louisville 7 p.m., ESPN NOTRE DAME at Villanova 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 Maryland at Duke 9:00 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 2005 Australian Open 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 

MLB 

Associated Press 
MIAMI Carlos Delgado wanted to play for a contender, and the Florida Marlins look like one now. 
Delgado agreed Tuesday to a $52 million, four-year contract. The deal, which includes an option year making it potentially worth $64 million over five seasons, is contingent on the Delgado passing a physical Wednesday. 
With the addition of the free-agent first baseman, Florida becomes perhaps the team to beat in the NL East. 
"It's a spectacular day 
for the franchise," owner Jeffrey Loria said in a tele­phone interview with The Associated Press. ''I'm going to spring training tomorrow. I'm not wait­ing." 
The Marlins won the World Series in 1997 and 2003 but still are seeking their first division title. They also want to win support for a new ball­park. 
"We're about trying to be a very competitive ball­club, and the stadium will take of itself in due time," Loria said. "But Carlos certainly is not going to hurt that effort." 
The Marlins landed the 

most formidable left­handed power hitter in their 12-season history, and it took the franchise's riehest per-season deal to do it. Florida won out over the New York Mets, Texas and Baltimore. 
Delgado receives just $4 million this year but makes $13.5 million in 2006, $14.5 million in 2007 and $16 million in 2008, according to terms obtained by the AP. The agreement includes a $16 million option for 2009 that would become guar­anteed based on how Delgado does in MVP vot­ing and whether he earns postseason MVP awards. 
If the option year doesn't become guaranteed, Florida would have the right to exercise a $12 million option. If the option is declined, Delgado would get a $4 million buyout. 
The Marlins made an initial offer of $35 million for three years, then went even higher to win the bidding. The contract will push their payroll above $56 million for the first time. 
Delgado, 32, hit at least 30 homers each of the past eight seasons in Toronto. Last season he batted .269 with 32 homers and 99 RBis. 
IN BRIEF 
Pittsburgh QB suffered two touchdowns and an interception homers and 89 RBis last seas.on with injury dunng title game in the second half. the Daiei Hawks. He's won two stolen 
PITTSBURGH -Rookie quarter­White Sox sign Japanese base titles, a Golden Glove award back Ben Roethilisberger broke a star Iguchi three times and been a four-time All­couple of toes on his right foot dur­CHICAGO -Japanese second Star. He can also play shortstop. ing the Steelers' AFC title game loss baseman Tadahito Iguchi and the Former Southern Indiana to the Patriots, but he doesn't blame Chicago White Sox have reached player stabbed the injury for his error-filled play. agreement on a two-year contract. 
EVANSVILLE-Laronzo "Ronnie" Roethlisberger didn't specify Iguchi will get between $2 million Griffin, a former basketball player at Tuesday which toes were broken, and $2.5 million per season and the 
Southern Indiana, was found
and he wasn't walking with an White· Sox will have the option for a 
stabbed to death at a home in 
apparent limp. He believes he was third year. The agreement was Louisville, Ky., police said. 
hurt while stumbling on a 13-yard reported by Kyodo in Japan and on The 6-foot-9 Griffin played one run late in the first half, amid a the White Sox's Web site. 
season for the Division II Screamingdrive that later stalled in the 41-27 The White Sox would not comment 
Eagles after transferring from
loss Sunday. Monday and an official announce­Oklahoma in 2001. He averaged 14"It's a good thing I'm not punting ment will come after Iguchi takes a points and seven rebounds in helping any more," said Roethlisberger, who physical. He would be the second Southern Indiana to a 22-7 record. 
was a part-time punter in college at White Sox player from Japan, join­
''I'm stunned, just devastated,"
Miami of Ohio. ing reliever Shingo Takatsu, who said USI coach Rick Herdes. "Ronnie
Despite getting hurt on an 11-was 6-4 with a 2.31 ERA and 19 
had so much personality, character
degree night, Roethlisberger saw his saves in his first season a year ago. statistics improve after the injury. Iguchi will give the made-over and charisma. He was on the first He was 5-of-1 0 for 77 yards and two White Sox speed and power at sec­team I coached, and he was always a pivotal interceptions as New ond base, where Willie Harris was gentleman while he was here. This is 
England opened a 24-3 lead by half­set to start. extremely hard for everyone who time, but was 9-of-14 for 149 yards, Iguchi, 30, batted .333 with 24 knew him here to deal with." 
.r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 26, 2005 The Obserper + SPORTS page 21 
losing to No. (J Vandnrbilt 
Saturday 5-2. The No. 21 Irish ( 1-1) arn also reeovnring continued from page 24 from a (J-1 loss to Vandorbilt. .Junior l.auron Connolly 
linPupl." Irish roach .Jay dnfoatPd Vandnrbilt's Annie Loudnrbark said. J<:vnry Mnnees at No. 4 6-7 (5-7), 6­match is going to bn a big :{. 1-0 (I 0-(,), collecting Notre CHIP. It's going to ronw down Damn's only point of the to who rompPLPs tho bnst." rnateh. At No. :{, sophomore 
What may dnridP lhP win­Christian Thompson kept No. nPr of WPdnc-s-116 Amanda d ay's 111 atch Fish on her will hP thP dou­"It's always big j(Jr toes, foreing a ble-s point, tinbreaker 
Michigan 
us to start 1-o. That

l.oudPr-hack match bnforn
takes the pressure 

said. Winning falling 2-(J, 7-6 thP douhlns oflofsingles because (7-2). 6-4. point give-s t.he Thompson and
then we only have to 

tPam t.hn ronfi­sister Catrina
win three singles to
dPnrP and also added rnomnnturn matches instead of the Irish effort. tlwy nend hnad­claiming a win
j(utr to win. " 

ing into singlPs. at No. 1 doubles "It's always 8-6 over No. 35 
Jay Louderback

big for us to Audra Falk and start off 1-0," Irish coach Menees. The l.ouderbaek No. 2 Thomp­said. "That ta-sons are 10-2 kPs tho prnssuro otT of singlos this season and 7-1 against hcH:ausP tlwn WP only havo to nationally ranked opponents. win thren singlns matehes After Sunday's hard-fought ins tPad of four to wi11." Vanderbilt match, Louder­
l.oudorhaek added he is back says the team is eager ronl"idnnt in tlw driven and to get back on the courts to dPtPrrnined prove just how Irish learn this mueh potential 
ynar, saying lw "They love to compete. they possess. 
Pxpnets hard­"The kids
I'm excited to see how

fought doubles know thoy have matrhns. they play because a tough sched­
"Tiwy lovn t~~ they've had another ule," Louder­rompntn, bad said. They
year ofexperience. " 

LoudPrbark know they have said. "I'm to come out and nxrilPd to spo Jay Louderback play and com­how thoy play Irish coach pote in every b n r. a u s P mateh. They're thny'vp had ready to get anothPr yPar back and com-of nxpnrinncn. ThPy've had a pete." rhanco to boeorno more The two tnams faee off match tough." today at 4 p.m. in the Eek 
Both Michigan and Notre Tonnis Pavilion. Danw had tlw opportunity to gauge tlwir progress last wcwkend against Vanderbilt. Contact Ann Loughery at Michigan's fell to 1-l after alougher@nd.edu 
Cats 
continued from page 24 
an important one. A win gives the Irish a 2-1 mark on this road trip and lets them improve to 5-2 in eonfernnce. A loss drops them to 1-2 on the trip and 4-3 in confer­ence. 
That's why tlw Irish can't stay down on themselves. 
"It is big. We bounced back after the Syracuse loss in a good way," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "So we are going to need to do that again against Villanova. We arc facing a vnry confident toam after they just erushed Kansas. It was a very physieal battle here." 
The Irish beat the Wildcats 78-72 at the Joyce Center Jan. 8. The Wildcats played that game without Curtis Sumpter, who injured his knee in practice the day before the game. Hut Sumpter returned to the Villanova line­up one week after missing the game against the Irish and had 25 points in the Wildcats' 83-62 upset of then-No. 2 Kansas Saturday. 
Sumpter is seeond on the team in points (16.8) and leads the team in rebounds (8.1). 
"He just creates match-up problems. They are a lot tougher," Thomas said. "I think he gives them a lot of eonfidence. lie's their best player." 
Ilowovcr, now the Wildcats are missing Jason Fraser from their lineup. Fraser only had five points and 10 rebounds in 30 minutes of aetion against the Irish and his overall season averages don't jump out from the stat sheet. Fraser has been injury­plagued in his three years with the Wildeats, whieh has been frustrating for the 

RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer 
Chris Quinn takes the ball upcourt Jan. 8 against Randy Foye of VIllanova during Notre Dame's 78-72 win. 
Villanova program. With a rnurderor's row of The Wildcats have had to opponents on the horizon ­battle injury problnms over starting Sunday with a the past three seasons, so this na tio 11 a! to I ev isio 11 h o nw is nothing new. Combine that game against dofnnding with Villanova's national cham­confidence and pion Con nc.H~­
"We are facing a
that's why ticut -looking Thomas very confident team past a toam as expeets good as the
after they just
tonight's game Wildcats would­
crushed Kansas. " 
to go down to n't bn unexpnd­the wire. nd. "Look for Mike Brey But Broy fools them to eorne his tnam won't
Irish coach 
out and shoot do that. lights out, and "Wn arn not pressure the ball and push it thinking at all about Conn­just likn they did against cetieut," Brny said. "Wn kind Kansas," Thomas said. "The of looked at this thrnn-ganw next eouple of games will road segment as ono s1~gnwnt. probably eornc down to game W(~'vn got to finish it and then situations and hopefully play­deal with UConn." ing against Georgetown and Tip-otT is sdwdulnd for 7:30 the last eouple of road games, p.m. on ESPN2. we'll be able to eounter runs and be on our feet a little bit Contact Matt Lozar at better." mlozar@nd.edu 

MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND 514 W. McKinley 117 North Main 4615 Miami Road Corner McKinley & 1 blk. south of Colfax Miami & Ireland 
Grape 574.288.9450 574.299.2860 AUTHORIZED AGENT 57 4.252.5820 
-fo.US.Cellular. 
•Airtinm ollm valid on t"MJ·YEJar crnmtJmer smvice aymumunts of$49.95 or tughar. Offer ~nciudes 1irm line at S49.95 wittt50% ucross distoum plus $15 ShamTalk 50% ac.tl.l!iS d!sctJUI1t valtd for the first throo trMJtltlts. of at\M>'ftJlll commitmmn Anti:ne and Sl1arei!ulk p,ona offers reQuim anew !Vo.'!>\'OOf wosun*!f :JEJrvtoo uwoorr~tt Ltmit three Sharalaik hnes pm pnnl(.lf)t line Ai.ross toe pt'l' ShamTalk ltriEltS $15/mo l"nf'l'latV IitlE! must be on 8 ~ice clan ol $39.95 ar-d 1>'!11.,. f'rooloMn<li ~""" sub1oc.1 10 ~'mQ!l. CUSIL'flilr is~"'~" fur all sales tax<.• Ni!JIH aod Weei!JI<i Minuu.• ore valiJ M·l 71J11l 10 5.59 ~n "IIJ all dov !>litunlav JJIIJ Sulduy Niglrt ..~ """"""IIJ m~utos aru """~ble in local calluJ!! arO<J on~. Gu:;tumers jioong and 1\l<XlMil!J cails must be U.S. Cell~ar custrnlm ar.l '" lhe MolJJiott>Mot.le leah"' Mo~l<' tnM:Jbr~ "'mu!u:; apply to call• ploced tlJ or <OOlJvOO lrurn~n~thar US. Cellular suiJscliiXlf's ~"NJ!JO. for I'U" call to quat•ly lor Mobi~·!O· Mo~lo minutes, you must ~""'or JOCOII'Il !he call ilurn willun 'ltJUl Mnhiio·lo·Mol>lo Call•ng Area. ard UJO r!mung rodic.rtor "' l'l'" ~10 nlOSI bo oil G.lils t<J,1,~11 outs1du thll Mobile· to· Mob!lu calling area wi!l apply t~J.VuriJ your fO{!l!lar plan mimltEJs May not 1m avmlahlo with ctlrtam offurK 1his loaturu does not include calls to Vc'lioo Sorv!CU!i or 411 ftoarllllij charges. luos. suldlOI'{IflS ,md mxas nmv apply, rncludint~ a f·adrnJI atll Otl'l61' fiegulutmv fua chmgu ul $.96. Activatron fae $30 All smvice agr&JnWI!Is subjoc.110 an early ttmuN1'101t foo fJtht"' rustrict:txl!i may app~ See~ fot'dE:t~tll:i Lmrt'Pdturo oftef. <.~2004 U S Cellulw COIIX!mli(JIJ 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, January 26, 2005 

Red Stor01 
continued from page 24 
Despite struggling for a week, Notre Dame turned it around quickly with back-to­hack wins against top-20 teams. The Irish defeated then-No. 20 Purdue on Jan. 16 before whipping Syracuse on the road and blowing out then­No. 6 Rutgers in the second half en route to the victory. 
Notre Dame is in the midst of its toughest stretch of games this season, but has several easier opponents nearing. After Connecticut and Boston College, Notre Dame faces Pittsburgh, Providence and Georgetown during an 11-day stretch. While Pittsburgh is a respectable 11-6, Providence and Georgetown are the at the bottom of the Big East. 

Notre Dame has never lost to St. John's in the teams' 14 meetings. 
Tipoff is set for 7 p.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Albion 
continued from page 24 
Playing to the Belles' favor in the Albion game was Tri-State's style of play. The Thunder used an up-tempo, pressing style, preparing Saint Mary's !'or the full court defense of the Britons. 
"Their game plan is press the whole game, shoot threes, and sub every few minutes -11ve in and five out," Creachbaum said of the Thunder. 
The Belles had little trouble with the Tri-State press, scoring 93 points, their second highest total of the season. Maureen Bush, who poured in 31 points, was the main ben­eficiary of coach Suzanne Bellina's very effective game plan. 
"They pressed us the whole game, so she got some pretty good looks at the basket," Creachbaum said of the 6-foot forward. "They had to guard her with smaller girls." 
Despite only having one day off between games, Creachbaum is .not wor­ried about the Belles being tired. 
"Over Christmas we had to play three games back to back to back," she said. 
Tipoff is 7:30p.m. at the Angela Athletic Center. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Join us for THE EIGHTH ANNUAL GLB RETREAT FEBRUARY 4-5 
A 24-hour retreat for questioning, bisexual, lesbian and gay students and their friends. 
Sign up in 114 Co-Mo or online at 
campusministry.nd.edu by Jan. 31 
EVERYONE Is WELCOME! 
QUESTIONS? EMAIL AMAGEE@ND.EDU OR DZIMLICH@ND.EDU 
SPONSORED BY: CAMPUS MINISTRY 
Wednesday, January 26, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
GAAAI!! THIS WRITER 

I'M E-MAILING THIS 
OlE,
MISUSED THE TECH­

LOSER TO TELL HIM NICAL TERM "DONGLE: 
I PLAN TO BOYCOTT I'LL
LOSER,
THAT IDIOT! 

THE NEWSPAPER! COME BACK
DlE!!! 
LATER. 
CHARLES SCHULZ

PEANUTS 
•' 'ALL RIGHT,'SAID TI-lE CAT; AND THIS TIME IT VANISI-lED QUITE SLOWLV... ENDING WITH TI-lE GRIN WHICH REMAINED SOME TIME AFTER THE REST OF IT I-lAD GONE 11 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 

..,--....~
@) #;.r, 
'i;;,
GLOIN 


j.;:. I'm out
7 
That looks dangerous. 
rJ rJ
1 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rlghls Reserved. 
DEPIT 

rJ rJ 
WHY He !71!7N'TtREGEME 1 I 
JOIN THe GLAC..IER EXPE!71TION.
J (] I I 
www.jumble.com

tWUCREF j Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.J I r I I 
Ms: HE GOT 

.. rI I I J' rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
I Jumbles: ROBOT LIGHT PODIUM GLOOMYYesterday's 
Answer: What the fast-talking mechanic seemed to be­A "MOTOR" MOUTH 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 37 Moon of Mars 67 City whose daily newspaper is
1 To the rear 38 See 16-Across the Beacon4 Cold war winner 
41 Partner of Journal a Raft wood above 
68 Come together 13 For 
42 Set straight 69 Today, in 14 "You Tijuana
43 Dummy

kiddin'!" 15 Attach, in a way 44 Tobacconist's DOWNoffering16 With 38-Across, 1 Ladybug's prey a punny riddle 45 "Baseball 2 Tolkien ringTonight" channel19 Points in a lofty bearerspeech 47 Fake 3 Sauna attire 
20 Long tale 51 Like ripe 4 Get exactly right21 Simpson cheeses 5 Pitches inexclamation 55 Each 6 Explosive stuff 
22 Dummy 58 Bush's alma 7 None of the
23 Short-sheeting mater above
and others a Family pariah
59 Designer Pucci 9 Diving bird 

25 Slightly open 
28 SeaWorld 61 Answer to the attraction riddle 1 o Extraction from galena ore
32 Things that are 64 Cajoles
burned 11 Hardly thrilling 65 PBS matters

nowadays 12 Pharaoh's 35 Cousin of a 66 Word with rolling symbol bassoon or bowling 15 Enter 
17 Numbers to ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
crunch 18 Ecol. watchdog

"'I'M LA T 'lw 1 N E 
rx'E R 
SIU I S S E A L E X 

23 Where a queen may be crowned 24 Title chance 26 Restoration poet 27 In the sack 29 Start of an 
incantation 30 Tavern in "The Simpsons" 
31 Plays for a fool 32 Baseball's 34 Eye problem 48 Con artists' prey 55 Typewriter type 


36 "Dig in!" 49 Will Smith title 56 "Star Wars" role critter
37 And 
50 Coffee break 
57 Not just chuckle 

39 Muscle time, maybe 
59 Young newts 

40 White House 52 Informational 60 Fail to makeresident, symbol 
informally 
53 Children's song 62 Useless tic-tac­refrain toe row
46 Depilatory brand 54 Soft, like cotton 63 Big time 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com!learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mischa Barton. ltJ: Tatyarm Ali, 26: 
Mary Lou Retton. 37: Neil Diamond, 64 
Happy Birthday: Move in the direction of the least resistance this year and you won't rind things nearly as dillicult as they have hccn the past couple of years. 
The time for change is now. This is a turning point in your life, and you must allow yourself the freedom to do just that. t;:mhracc the year ahead with optimism, hut do not stray from your usually conservative nature. Excess will continue to he the enemy, so keep things on a small scale. Your numhcrs arc 4, 13, 27. 31, 38,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't take things personally. You will excel if 
you are congenial and do.your hcst to pull your own weight. Take care of your 
own husincss. Getting angry will hold you hack. ** 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Give it your hcst shot and you will accomplish 
more than you had hoped for. You can do no wrong today if you voice your 
opinion and follow through with your plan. Love is hot. ••••• ·-· 
GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Like it or not, the focus should he on home. family 
and taking care of responsihilities. You should he ahlc to solve existing prohlcms, 
hut don't overextend yourself in the process. *** 
CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Take a moment to discover how you feel ahout 
your personal life and the people in it. You may want to make some adjustments 
that will not go over well. However. the sooner done, the hettcr. *** 
LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Not everyone you arc dealing with will he upfront 
ahout what they think and what their intentions are. Don't he too vocal or you 
will give the competition the edge. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a look at where you arc and think ahout where 
you would like to be. Don't wait to take the rirst step in a direction you know 
will satisfy you both personally and professionally. **** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Keep an eye on the people closest to you. Someone 
is not giving you a fair deal. Stay "on top of matters if you want to come out on 
top. Your ideas are good, so protect them. •• 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Traveling a short or a long distance will provide 
you with some valuahle infommtion about someone who means a lot to you. 
Love can be yours if you plan something special. ***** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It will be up to you to pull things together 
and make everything perfect. Property or investment deals will pay off. Money 
is in the picture, so collect if there is any owed. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): There is a lotto think ahouttoday. Someone 
may he pushing you to make a decision that you aren't ready to make. Consider 
why you aren't and you'll have your answer. *** 
AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-J<'cb. II!): Dealing with oftlcials may he unnerving, but 
if you are straightforward. it will he easy. Focus on what you want to do and how 
you plan to make more money. Take care of your health. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The more you push yourself, the hetter you will 
do. Showing your dedication and loyalty will attract friends and lovers who have 
similar interests. Children may he on your mind. ***** 
Birthday Haby: You arc sensitive, loving and very commendable. You arc 
passionate about your beliefs and always stand up for your rights. You arc known 
for your valor and desire to take care of everyone around you. 
Check out Eu11enia's Wl'IJ sites at astrotuh•ice.com and eufieniala.\·t.com.
"Georgia Peach" 33 Pacers' contest? 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, January 26, 2005 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Weathering a Storm 
No. 6 Irish cannot look past improved St. John's team 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 

After two impressive wins against top-20 opponents, Notre Dame faces St. John's tonight at the Joyce Center. But this St. .John's team is much different than a season ago. 
The Red Storm went just 10­18 during the 2003-04 cam­paign, but opened this season with a school-record 12 straight wins before dropping a 60-32 contest to Connecticut. While the team has improved from a season ago, they haven't exactly played the most difficult schedule. St. John's wins inelude -Canisius, Colgate, Norfolk State, North Carolina-Wilmington, Hofstra, Fordham, Holy Cross, Farleigh Dickinson, Binghamton and Cornell. Since the hot start, the Red Storm is 2-3, putting them at 14-3 overall and 3-3 in Big East play. 
Still, Notre Dame must be careful not to have a letdown after an emotionally-draining win against Hutgers Sunday. The Irish trailed the Scarlet Knights by as many as 13 
-
points in the first half, and by 11 at the intermission before turning the game around and cruising to a 63-47 victory. Jacqueline Batteast scored 27 points in the win and, for her performance, earned several player of the week honors. 
This is likely the weakest opponent Notre Dame has faced in several games, and will face for the next week. The Irish have tough games against Connecticut on the road and Boston College at home on Jan. 30 and Feb. 2, respectively. 
St. John's has three players averaging double figures in scoring, including the team's leading scorer, Kia Wright. Wright tallies 14.9 points, 3.7 rebounds and 4.0 assists per game this season. She scorched Georgetown for 21 points in the team's win Saturday. 
Notre Dame sits in a tie for fourth place in the Big East conference, with the Red Storm a game behind. The Irish start­ed the season winning 13 of the team's first 14 games before hitting a slump against Villanova and Connecticut. 
see RED STORM/page 22 

..­
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Road trip finally ends tonight 
Notre Dame travels to Villanova for Big East test 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
The Irish can't get down about Sunday's heart-breaking loss at Georgetown. 
The schedule-makers won't let them. 
Ending the three-game con­ference road trip, Notre Dame {12-4, 4-2 Big East) plays a confident Villanova (10-4, 2-3) team tonight at the Wachovia Center in Philadelphia. 
"It's a big game. They are corning off a big win," Irish point guard Chris Thomas said. "We played well against them here, and they played well against us. They are a little bit short on personnel, but I look for them to come out with a lot of confidence, and I look for the same from us." 
This is only one game, but it's 
see CATS/page 21 


NHl 
NCAA WOMEN~S BBAU. 

The league has sched­ule a three-on-three meeting with the play­ers' association today to try to save the season. 
page 18 SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles take two-gam.e win streak to Albion 
With a win over the MIAA leader, team would be over .500 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 

After a 93-87 win over Tri­State in a game played Monday due to a northern Indiana snowstorm, the Belles have to turn around and play two days later against the MIAA frontrun­ner Albion Britons. 
The Britons (16-2, 8-1 in the MIAA) beat Saint Mary's 71-62 in Albion, Mich. Dec. 1, but Belles senior forward Emily Creachbaum is confi­dent headed into tonight's contest at the Angela Athletic Center. 
"We tend to play very well 
Purdue guard Tye Jackson left the team Tuesday because of homesickness. 
page 18 
NBA 
Bulls 111i 

Nuggets 07 
Kirk Hinrich had 23 points and five assists to lead Chicago. 
page 16 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Doubles is thekeyfor No. 21 Irish 
No. 20 Michigan comes to town for tough matchup 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Wri rer 
If last year is any indication, the No. 20 Wolverines will be clawing for every point they can get in today's match. 
Last season, No. 21 Dame nearly overpowered Michigan on the Wolverines' home courts 4­3, earning three of the six singles points and forcing three tiebreak-

Notre 

ers. Catrina 
This time, the Thompson competition looks to be just as tough. 
"Both teams are real deep and strong at the top [of the 
see MICHIGAN/page 21 
against Albion, and they don't usually play well at our place," Creachbaum said. 
The Belles {9-9, 4-5 in the MIAA) took an 11-point lead into the locker room in the contest earlier this year, only to see it evaporate in the sec­ond half, mainly due to sev­eral turnovers. 
Eliminating turnovers is key for the Belles in this game as Albion will most likely use its trademark full court press. Saint Mary's guards Bridget Lipke, Alison Kessler and Bridget Boyce will be called upon to get the ball over center court effec­tively. 
"Our guards usually do a very good job of breaking the press, so if they [play well today], we should be suc­cessful," Creachbaum said. 
see ALBION/page 22 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
No. 1 Illinois 731No. 19 Wisconsm 65 
The Fighting Illini end Wisconsin's 38­game home winning streak. 
page 14 











