
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 18 FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 16.2005 
Football parking options reduced 
Summer construction eliminates 1,700 spots for tailgaters; shuttles will transport 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
Nt•ws Writer 
Tho tons of thousands of foot­ball fans nxpnetnd for Saturday's ganw will bn gmetod by I,700 fownr parking spaces for tlwir vPhiclns than in past ynars. 
Al"tnr a summnr of campus constrw~tion, a major four-lane roadway-Edison Hoad-now runs through Blun Fifdd south, a favoritn spot for tailgaters that held about 1,700 vehicles. Blue Field south, also home to soccer fields, was located just south of Edison Hoad. 
As a result, fans hoping to park there on Saturday will be encouraged to park in White Fjeld north, located north of Douglas Road and west of Juniper Road. 
"We're providing plenty of parking areas in White Field north," said Phil Johnson, 
see PARKING/page 4 


ND, SMC seek money to grow 

NO eager to build new residence halls 
By MADDIE HANNA 
A.~sociate News Ediror 
Tlw recent trends of forced frnshman tripll1s and crowded ~~onvnrtnd study lounges will liknly soon b11comn a chapter in Notrn Dame's rnsirlfmcn hall history. as a capital campaign will lwgin in 2006 to raise rnonoy for building nnw dorms, Univ11rsity oflidals said. 
Construction on the four pro­posnd halls, to lw locatnd east or Knott and Pasqunrilla East aftnr thl1 r.losing or Juniper Hoad. will dl'pend on how quickly tlw Univnrsity finds a b11rwractor willing to und!1r­writn tho projnet, Vice l'rt1SidPnt or Student Affairs Fatlwr Mark Poorman said. 
"It's dil"licult lo predkt whnn hall 1:onstruction will start." Poorman ~aid. "(;ivnn thn cur­rent ovorrrowding. it is my hope that wn will begin eon-
see DORMS/page 6 

Weis fund wristbands popular, help unsure 
charity, named after the Weis' 
By JACK THORNTON 

daughter llannah, who was Nt·w,Wrirt·r 
born with global devnloprnent 
delays. 

Following a trnnd lirst popu­While LiveStrong guarantees larized by l.anco Armstrong's 1()() pnrc~ent or its proceeds will l.iveStrong Campaign, tho gold bennfit caneer research. the wristbands c:rPattHI to raisn paekagn of the llannah and nHinny and awarnn11ss for Frionds wristband indicates llannah and Frionds -the that only a portion of the $2 nonprolit foundation l'omwd by purchase will benefit the football eoaeh Charlin Wois and llannah and Friends his wil'o Maura -arn rising in Foundation. 1:ampus nxposure. Hannah and Friends execu­
But ambiguity remains about tive director Kevin Kaplan said just how much of the wrist­bands' mst goos directly to the see BANDS/page 9 



Construction at SMC will wait for funding 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
Following a nearly oight­year period of development that saw Saint Mary's build a new dining hall, student cen­ter, on-campus apartments and other improvnments, the College has halted all remain­ing construction on its Master Plan until it can raise morn funding, officials said. 
Saint Mary's will not break ground on new projects ­which range from a nnw classroom building and multi­purpose center to a se1:ond on-campus apartment com­plex -until 100 percent of' costs are pledged and 75 per­cent are held in eash, said Laurin Stickelmainr, vice president for finance and administration. 
"While we arn happy with the results of the Master Plan, 
see PLAN/page 9 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Tradition, change are e111phasis at SMC 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saint Mary's Editor 
In her first Statn of' tlw School address Thursday, Saint Mary's student body president Knllyn Mitros reflected on significant physical and administrative changes the College has recently undnrgone and outlined hnr administration's goals for thn coming months. 
Speaking to 40 people ­largely student government olli­cers and administrators -in I.e Mans llall's Stapleton loungn, Mitros pointnd out that Sept. 15 is the anniversary of the limnd­ing of the Congregation of' tho Sisters of the lloly Cross. It was with their "strength" and "dedi­cation to their faith" that four French sisters were able to make Saint Mary's a reality 150 years ago, Mitros said. 
"We aro privilegnd to be hern at sud1 a time as this," Mitros said. "Our college campus is !-,'Towing at an incredible rate ­our nnw dining hall. Opus Apartments and tho Student Center arn all nnw additions dur­ing my college earner." 
But Mit.ros said the building progrnss on campus is not donn. The Collng1~ master plan indudns a new academic building, whid1 will bn underway in a few y111U'S. 
Mitros also toudwd on what has long bnnn onn of Saint Mary's biggest ehallnngns­enrollnwnt. 
"The number of students in tlw first year class has exceeded expndations and we snem to lm expnri1mdng growth as a com­munity." Mitros said. 
She exprnss11d conlidnnen ­
sec ADDRESS/page 4 

The Shirt provokes controversy 
Students, alumni debate importance 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor 
A big question that has pro­voked anticipation, suspense and spneulation will bn answnred. Saturday-and it's not about the football team's performance. 
It's about what students will be wearing in the stands at tho Irish home opener. 
Although this year's Shirt sales arn stronger than the 
see SHIRT/page 8 


FRANCESCA SETAfThe Observer A student poses In an alternative to The Shirt, which some students have bought Instead of this year's design. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


College: a box of... 
Brace yourself for another fresh­man writing about his first few weeks of college. Don't worry-I promise it won't be boring. I'll admit it's a bizarre column. However, you may find it uplift­ing. Peter 
Back in the 70s, Ninneman 
when my dad roamed this great campus of ours, Wire Editor there existed a few 
twisted individuals. 
You see, these two guys really did­n't like a kid down the hall from them. 
To imagine the amount of animosi­ty that must have existed between these people would be like sympa­thizing with Jesus' pain on the cross -it's impossible. 
Christmas break rolls around, and what do these chaps send their enemy on the day Jesus was born? A nicely wrapped shoebox full of their excrement, that's what. 
Now, you're probably asking your­self why I bring up this box of fecal matter. It's really ·quite simple. It pro­vides a meaningful metaphor for the college experience. 
Picture this: You and your Notre Dame family -which as a freshman I can only assume exists -are all gathered around the gold-covered Christmas tree that is our school's most recognizable building. 
Around this giant tree are innu­merable gifts: football games, friends, parties, dorm masses, pep rallies, the Grotto, gigantic squirrels and the sun reflecting off the Golden Dome. The list could really go on and on, but I'll spare you. 
So here we are, all happy little chil­dren beaming with joy as we unwrap our gifts. Meanwhile, one gift is looming in the background. Picture storm clouds billowing above it. 
As the weeks progress, that one package starts to get smellier and smellier. Have you guessed what this magnificent gift is? 
It takes the form of tests, papers, quizzes, assignmenls, projects, lec­tures, late night cramming, reading assignments, presentations, dead­lines and study groups. 
And boy does it smell rank. 
Now, this is going to sound like a really cheesy silver lining approach to life, but that's only because it is. I assert, classmates, that the package full of human waste is definitely wrapped in some darn shiny wrap­ping paper. 
A little hard work never killed any­one, and we will be soaring out of this school full speed in our respec­tive directions in no time, even if it doesn't seem like it now. 
So that's college then, a great cele­bration with some unwelcome gifts. If you want, you can substitute the box of dung with, say, a paperweight. 
In my estimation, this is a testa­ment to the college student's spirit. As much fun as we have, we also shoulder a great amount of pressure and anxiety. Assignments pile up. Deadlines close in on us. Computers crash. But we know tomorrow's a new day. 
Oh yeah, and our football team is good this year. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at 
pninnema@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, rerognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correa our error. 

----~------.. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, September 16, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO GET READY FOR SATURDAY'S GAME? 







Rick Loesing Matt Smith Claire Murphy Moser James Papier Brian Camus 
sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore Stanford St. Ed's PE Keenan Stanford 
"Looking for "Looking for a "Avoiding the "Crossing my "Working at 
'

this Mike shirt that isn't power-trippin fingers and Burger King. " 
Hopkinson character. " 
Sheep star in online reali­ty show 
ZAGREB, Croatia ­Croatia has launched a new reality show on the Internet, starring sheep instead of people. 
The winner of the 1 0-day Stado (herd) show, which closes on Sept. 17, will receive poetry in its honor instead of money. 
Those voted out of the seven-member herd might be eaten, the Vecernji List daily reported Wednesday. 
The show can be fol­lowed 24 hours a day on website www.stado.org, where visitors can see how the sheep feed and interact 
TODAY 
D:: 
LLI ::1: 
!:;: 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
C( 
(.) 0 


the color  SBPD."  practicing with  
[yellow]."  the marching  
band."  


FRANCESCA SETA/The Observer Dillion representative "Crackhead" smashes a plate over his head at the dorm's annual pep rally Thursday. The event, which ended early due to inclement weather, featured origi­nal skits and appearances by football coach Charlie Weis and quarterback Brady Quinn. 
OFFBEAT 

three to five miles daily ­didn't catch the fleeing student, but she was able to help police arrest the teen after watching a hall­way surveillance camera video and interviewing several students. 
Some might call it mon­key business, but Union Springs school officials didn't find the stunt amus­ing. 
"There's no way anyone in the district woul!i con­sider this a prank," District Superintendent Linda Rice said Wednesday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


...I HIGH 77 HIGH HIGH HIGH LOW 55 LOW LOW LOW 
with each other. They can then choose which sheep to vote out. 
The show drew anger from human rights groups who reported animal abuse to local veterinary inspectors. 
Principal chases streaker in gorilla mask 
UNION SPRINGS, N.Y. ­A 17 -year-old student was arrested for streaking through his high school in a gorilla mask after being chased down the street by the school principal. 
Union Springs High School Principal Kimberle Ward -who said she runs 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 


IN BRIEF 
The football pep rally will be held today at 6 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. Doors will open at 5:15. 
Fiddler's Hearth is hosting a "halfway to St. Patrick's Day" Irish Fest today through Sept. 23 to raise money for the Red Cross Hurricane Relief Fund. Irish bands The Springs, The Bardic Apostles, The Fenians, Teada, Brock McGuire and local band Kennedy's Kitchen will perform. Fiddler's Hearth is located in downtown South Bend at 127 N. Main. For tickets and information, call 232-2853. 
The firth annual Saturday Scholar Series will begin at 11 
a.m. this Saturday in the Hesburgh Center. History pro­fessor Linda Przybyszewski will give a lecture entitled "Catholics, Concubines and the Constitution." 
Flipside will be showing the movie "Rudy" at 9 p.m. today on North Quad. 
"The Longest Yard" will be shown in 101 DeBartolo Hall on Saturday at 4:30p.m. and 7:30. Admission is $3. 
Hammes Mowbray Hall, the new home of Notre Dame Security/Police and the Notre Dame Post Office, will be dedi­cated at 9 a.m. on Friday, Sept. 
23. University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh will offer a blessing, just as he did at the dedication five decades ago of the book­store that was located on the South Quad from 1955 to 1999. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about .an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



84 83 64 60 
Atlanta 89 I 65 Boston 76 I 60 Chicago 76 I 54 Denver 80 I 50 Houston 92 I 76 Los Angeles 75 I 60 Minneapolis 78 I 58 New York 78 I 64 Philadelphia 80 I 64 Phoenix 101 I 79 Seattle 64 I 50 St. Louis 78 I 58 Tampa 90 I 76 Washington 80 I 64 
Friday, September 16, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Stadiurn will host relief effort 
Students prepare to collect Katrina donations during football game 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
NewsWrirer 
Notro Dame's largest llurrkane Katrina mlief' efl'ort will take placn Saturday dur­ing the highly anticipated first homo f'ootball game of t.he sea­son. 
Between thn first and seeond quartnrs of the Michigan State ganw, student volunteers will disperso throughout the stadi­um. pass around buckets and collect donations f'rom tho morn than SO,OOO f'ans, said Aly Baumgartner, studt~nt coordinator of the Stadium Colleetion. 
Sinco Katrina hit tho Gulf Coast on Aug. 29, the Notre Damn community has eome togotlwr to aid rnlief eff'orts. In the days following the tragedy, the Center f'or Soeial Concerns hosted various aid events, a student government-run table in Larortune eollm:ted dona­tions and individual dorms col­lected money from student rnsidents. 
"Thn willingness of the Notre Dame student body to come to thn aid or those in need is n~ad ily apparent," student body president Dave Baron said. 
Thn Stadium Collection is the most sizable Katrina event organiznd by the University, n~aching beyond Notrn Dame's stall' and students and extend­ing to alumni and other fans. 
Diseussion for the Stadium Colleetion began in the University's administrative eir­des, but it beeame apparent that the student body had the numbers to execute such and event. Student Government took over the collection, calling for and training student volun­teers to partake in the massive effort, Baumgartner said. 
Baumgartner said the response from students has been tremendous. Approx­imately 350 student volunteers were needed to suceessfully eollect from the stadium, and nearly 4 7 5 offered their help. 
Voluntners attended a short informational session earlier this week to learn details of their job, Baumgartner said. On Saturday, volunteers will wear bright red T-shirts and proeeed to their assigned rows shortly before the enc! of the first quarter. The collection will proceed only between the lirst and second quarters, and the money will then be taken to the Notre Dame Security/Police Building to be sorted and eounted. 
Organizers hope the total will be announced before the end of the game. 
Baumgartner said a similar Stadium Colleetion took plaee after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks and raised nearly $275,000. Student government hopes the crowd at Saturday's game gives as generously as it did four years ago. 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullen1 @nd.edu 
Saint Mary's reduces spending, cuts deficit 

By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 

After facing a budget deficit of $1.5 million at the beginning of the 2004-05 school year, Saint Mary's has reduced expendi­tures to eut the dcl'ieit to less than $750,000. 
Through a reduction in spend­ing and the impl!-m10ntation of a four pereent tuition increase between the 2004-05 and 2005­06 school years, the College has College
"Saint Mary's still 
managed to hopes to minimizn deerease its deficit anticipates tight the d11bt to by more than 50 
budgets for the next $500,000 for tho 
percent. 2006 school year
two to three years. " 
Laurie and, barring any Stickelmaier, vice eostly surprises, is president of Laurie Stickelmaier anticipating a bal­finance and anced budget by
vice president 
administration, the 2007 J'iseal
of finance and 
said two issues year.
administration
could be targeted 

as source of the budget deficit. The College's troubles began when the aetual enrollment in the elass of 2008 fell 51 students short of their projected goal ­which resulted in a $1 million loss. The second problem for the College was the general increase in the operating costs. 
"The Cflllege's linandal foun­dation is very sound. This is a revenue expense problem, it is not a foundational problem," Stickelmaier said. 
By carefully monitoring expenses, it was estimated that the ·College could be back on track financially within two years. 
Stil:knlmaier said new initia­tives, positions, equiprnnnt pur­r.hasns and smaller less critical repairs and renovations have been postponed until funding is more sullident. 
"The College has generous employee benefits and some of these have bonn dm:roasod, lbutl great ean~ has been taken to maintain academic programs," 
StiekPlrnaier said. 
Tho 
This year's 
freshman elass of 

375 students met the target enrollment goals, and the College hopes to enroll 400 students at the start of the· 2006­2007 sehool year. 
"It will take several years for the smaller elasscs to work their way through the enrollment eyele to ~f1, r~plaeed ?Y lar~er classes, Sttckelrna10r satd. "Saint Mary's still anticipates tight budget~ for the next two to thrne years. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Fremantle, Australia 
Information Meeting 
Tuesday,Sept.20,2005 5:30-7:00 PM Room 141 DeBartolo 
!students in the College of AL & BA onl~ 

Application Deadline: November 15, 2005 for Fall 2006 and Spring 2007 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/--intlstud 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 16, 2005 
Parking


Expert panel addresses 
continued from page 1 


business student plans 
assistant director of Notre Dame Security/Police. "And we will run a shuttle from there
Entrepreneurs and venture capitalists advise 
to the library. We'll have ade­quate room for anyone who
students on company c01npetition strategy 
wants to park on campus." 
By PATRICK D.OWD News Writer 
A panel of entrepreneurial experts from the Notre Dame family spoke Thursday at the Mendoza College of Business to help students prepare for busi­ness plan competitions slated to take place later this fall. 
Sponsored by the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies, the hour-long panel discussion featured entrepre­neurs and venture capitalists ­two primary groups involved in business deal-making -debat­ing back-and-forth on the top­ics of entrepreneurship, what makes or breaks start-up busi­ness ventures and how to choose a 

telling you [your 
career path. business plan] is a
"Ifpeople are
As panelists good idea, it's 
Address
weighed in on telling you [your probably too late," their respective business plan] is a he said. 
continued from page 1 

professions, it David Hitz,
good idea, it's
became clear that founder of they were cut of probably too late." NetApp, said stu­
with Dan Meyer filling the new the same cloth. dents should aim 
administrative position of vice They conversed to get to the right 
president for enrollment -that
Tim Connors 
improvements in admissionsarticulately and place and "hang
US Venture Partners
at times almost jovially on the ins and outs of the business and making deals that support innovation, create jobs and build wealth. 
President of Network Appliance (NetApp) and Notre Dame alum Tom Mendoza said the education he received at the University was influential in the development of his entre­preneurial instincts, noting that the intelligence of his class­mates made him "open his mind and actively listen to other people." 
The ability to learn from oth­ers is an indispensable skill in the business world, he said. 
Mendoza also conveyed his pride in the fact that Notre Dame graduates have a "moral compass" and profound desire to win -something that pan­elists unequivocally stated as the most important aspects of a Saint Mary's or the South Bend Airport and rely on a shuttle service to bring them to campus for the game. 
Transpo shuttle service will release a fleet of 20 buses three hours· before kickoff to pick up and drop off Notre Dame and Michigan State fans from locations throughout the city. 
"The buses will run a con­tinuous loop," said Transpo general manager Mary McLain. "They don't come on a schedule because of traffic but once they start they run continuously from campus and run from a variety of loca­tions. We use the most direct way to get fans back to cam­pus." 
The buses will begin their final loop around the city 45 minutes before kick-off. But they also won't leave fans downtown that couldn't fit on an overcrowded bus, McLain said. 
"Let's say the bus fills up with people, then we will make arrangements so some­one can come get them. We won't leave anyone behind," McLain said. 
Transpo is expecting -and prepared for -heavier-than­usual crowds for the first home game, McLain said. 
"The buses are more popu­lar this year because of higher gas prices, more limited park­ing [on campus] and more hype with the football team," Transpo marketing assistant Jeannette Barnhart said. "We're expecting higher than average numbers." 
Johnson expects the parking situation will improve in the coming years. 
"We hope that after con­struction [Blue Field south] will cure and we'll be able to restore parking," Johnson said. 
A Transpo ride from down­town or the airport will cost $4 each way. From St. Joseph High School or Saint Mary's, it will be $2. Transportation to and from White Field north is free. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmaloneJ@nd.edu 
good business partner. 

Mendoza and other panelists informed students how to fur­ther build successful business opportunities. The panel agreed that the goal of a start­up should be to solve a problem not addressed by current mar­kets. 
Tom Crotty of Battery Ventures emphasized impor­tance of getting started early and "riding the wave" of new technological movements. 
Tim Connors of US Venture Partners spoke about the sort of perseverance it takes to push a new idea past skeptical investors, and stressfld that hard work is the only recipe for substantive results. 
"If people are 
Student tailgating areas have also been relocated. This year tailgaters will be in Blue Field north, located north of Edison Road and east of the Eck baseball stadium. 
Despite predictions that there will be 15,000 vehicles on campus this weekend, Johnson said the campus would still be able to accom­modate everyone. 
"We've always had excess capacity in [White Field north]." Johnson said. "We're confident we can provide all the replacement parking spaces that we lost on the south end of campus." 
Johnson hopes some fans will park at off-campus hotels, 
out." The idea of 
being in a pro­gressive business atmosphere is one that the other panelists identified as critical in the for­mation of good entrepreneurial instincts. 
Panelists also suggested embracing the risk of getting involved in small start-up busi­nesses early on as opposed to larger companies like IBM, Microsoft and SUN Microsystems. 
Panelists said they wouldn't want to hire someone who has to learn on the job and pointed to start-ups as an ideal training ground for future managers. Furthermore, speakers warned students it is often difficult to acquire fundamental business sense in a bureaucratic corpo­rate atmosphere. 
Contact Patrick Dowd at 
pdowdl@nd.edu 

would continue in the coming years. 
"Mr. Meyer only joined our community a few months ago, however, he has already made his presence on campus and his desire for student input known by coming to introduce himself to our Board of Governance and asking for suggestions to help with enrollment," Mitros said. 
One of her main campaign platform issues and biggest goals as student body president was to launch a series of cam­pus lectures and events focused on the history of Saint Mary's, Mitros said. 
"Our goal in doing this has been to increase awareness of the uniqueness of our history and appreciation for the work of the sisters that has made our College what it is today," Mitros said. "This history series has become bigger than Susan or I could have ever dreamed it to 
be." 
She said it had expanded to become an interdepartmental project including the office for Mission, student government and campus ministry. 
"My favorite of these ideas is the proposal for having a histor­ical dinner in Reignbeaux Lounge, right here in Le Mans," Mitros said, "Reignbeaux was, after all, the original dining room." 
Student government will be 
Mitros said she and vice pres­ident Susan Mcllduff had creat­ed and filled the position of Health and Wellness Commissioner. 
"Meghan Lambourne was selected to fill this position and has been working with Health and Wellness to put together programming that will help stu­dents with a wide variety of health issues that are often faced by women," Mitros said. 
She also remodeled the posi­
continuing sev­eral successful programs from "We are privileged
past years, 
Mitros said, to be here at such including free a time as this. " bus trips to Chicago and the 
Kellye Mitros
College 
Readership SMC student body Program. president Mitros also detailed 
tion of campus foods commission­er into the student 
services commis­
sioner, Mitros said. The commissioner will deal not only with campus foods issues but also work with the Student Center and Security. 
The State of the 
changes made to the Board of Governance itself. Most notably, the board has begun to search for a new alumnae commission­er, Mitros said, and they hoped to fill the position soon. The previous commissioner, Erin Hanifan, announced her resig­nation at Monday's Board of Governance meeting. 
School address, since being revived in 2003, is delivered at the beginning of the fall and spring semesters by the student body president and serves to update the College community on the status of the school. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


Friends To The Game! 
While you are in town, be sure to visit Sugarberry Lane and SAVE 




15% OFF* 

on all of your purchases, when you select from qur in stock regularly priced items. This area's FAVORITE VERA BRADLEY Emerald Dealer Great lines of creams and skin care items • Yankee Candles & Plug-ins Plus many fine gifts & seasonal decor items 
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
------------~~~~~----------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hournmos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, 

Baklawa and many delicious dishes... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North (574) 277-7239 South Bend. IN 46637 
We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
Mon-Fri 1 Oam to 6pm • Sat. 1 Oam to 5 pm • Closed Sun A few miles north of Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
*Offer expires October 8, 2005 


ORLD & NATION 
friday, September 16, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Milosevic's wife misses trial 
BELGHADE, Serbia-Montenegro -A judge ordnred the arrest Thursday of the wife of former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic for failing to attend lwr corruption trial in Belgrade. 
Mirjana Markovic, who was often accused of being the power behind the s1~nrws during her husband's autocratic rule in thn 1990s, has been in self­imposnd exile in Hussia since 2003. 
A previous arrest warrant was revoked in .Junn aftnr her lawyer, Zdenko Tomanovk. promised shn would attend thn !waring. 
"Sincn Mirjana Markovic failnd to appnar in court, this chamber has dneided to issun an order for an arrest warrant against her," Judge Sinisa Sol'r!movie said. 
Iran's president willing to give info 
UNITI\1> NATIONS-Iran is willing to providn nuelnar technology to other Muslim states, Iran's hard-line president said Thursday, notching up his rhetoric as his regime rejects international pressure to cut back its atomic program. 
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad made the comm1H1t after talking with Turkey's primn minister during a gathering of world leaders at the United Nations, Iran's state­run Islamic Hnpublic News Agency said. 
Ahmadinejad repeated promises that Iran will not develop nuelear weapons, the rnport said. Then hn added: "Iran is ready to transfnr n uelear know-how to the Islamit: countries duB to their need." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Roberts says he won't be idealogue 
WASHINGTON -Chief .Justice nominee .John Hoberts said Thursday there is no room for ideologues on the Supreme Court, dnelaring an "obligation to the Constitution" and to no other cause as he conr.luded three grueling days of confirma­tion testimony. 
"If the Constitution says that the little guy should win, the little guy's going to win in eourt beforn me," Hoberts told the Senate .Judiciary Committee. "But if the Constitution says that the big guy should win. well. then the big guy's going to win." 
Hoberts' confirmation as successor to the late Chief Justice William II. Holmquist appnars socurn, the only question the sizo of his votn total and in particular his I lPmocratie support. 
Hurricane Ophelia soaks coast 
SAITEH PATH. N.C.-llurric.ane Ophelia erawled along the North Carolina eoast on Thursday. prolonging its punishment of the Outnr Banks with rain and wind as eoastal rnsidents elsewhere returned home to dam­aged honws and businnssns. 
While thn weakening storm's eenter was nxpPetnd to stay just off shorn, the northern sid11 of Ophelia's nyewall, the ring of high wind surrounding the eye, eould remain over tlw Outor Banks until midday Friday, th11 National llurrieann Cm1ter said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Budget bill moves front and center 
INI H/\NAPOI.IS -Hundreds of delinquent stat11 taxpaynrs eanw dean Thursday as Indiana began a two-month graen period that allows them to pay baek taxns without pnnaltins, intnrost or fnos. 
<;ov. Miteh Daniels said the state l>11partment of Hnvenue's program was poised for success boeause of tho agency's prnparations. Tlw state hopes to eollect at lnast $65 million of the $1.3 billion in back taxns owed by Nov. 15, when the state's first arnnnsty program willnnd. 
Bush assembles assistance package 
Costs predicted to climb to more than $200 billion for Hurricane Katrina recovery 
Associated Press 

NEW OHLEANS-Faced 
with the nation's costliest 
natural disaster, President 
Bush on Thursday assem­
bled an unprecedented 
package of housing, 
health care, job assistance 
and education for hun­
dreds of thousands of Gulf 
Coast residents thrown 
into misery by Hurricane 
Katrina. 

Trying to make up for a flawed response to the hurricane that em bar­rassed his administration, Bush was to announce a recovery plan in a nation­ally broadcast speech from Jackson Square in the heart of the French Quarter. Elsewhere in the famed city, workers were still pumping out nooded neighborhoods and col­lecting bodies left behind in the frantic evacuation. 
Bush was not expeeted to put a price tag on the disaster but costs are cer­tain to climb to $200 bil­lion or beyond in the near term. The final tab could approach the more than $300 billion spent thus far on U.S. wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congress has already approved $62 bil­lion for the disaster, but that is expected to run out next month. 
Bush faced the nation at a vulnerable point in his efforts. Bush planned to boldly to address "a long small business hnlp and presideney. Most Amer­promise that needy people history of injustice that health care, MeClnllan icans disapprove of his would get special atten­has led to poverty and said. The presidnnt also handling of Katrina, and tion in the reconstruction, inequality," said press sec­planned to announen tax his job-approval rating officials said. retary Scott MeClellan. relief to eneourage busi­has been dragged down to Black Americans have "It's a long history and it's nesses to stay in the dev­the lowest point of his been particularly angered not something we're going astated region, said a presidency also because of by the government to overcome instantly." Hepublican ofl'icial who dissatisfaction with the response to the disaster, The administration has was consulted but wanted Iraq war and rising gas with an overwhelming promised to reimburse to remain anonymous prices. lie has struggled to majority telling pollsters states for the costs because Bush had not yet demonstrate the same they believe help would incurred in housing hurri­delivered the spnnch. take-charge leadership he have come quicker if so cane evacuees. Tnxas Polls show Amnricans displayed aftM the Sept. many of the people alone has taken in an esti­are willing to pay to 11 terror attacks four stranded were not poor mated 250,000 refugees rebuild Nnw Orleans. years ago, but Hepubl­and black. from the l'looding, an Conservatives, worried icans fret that he waited President Bush is pledg­overwhelming majority of about the soaring budget too long to address the ing to build "a stronger whom are believed to deficit, are pressuring the nation with reassurances. and better New Orleans, qualify for Medicaid. White Ilouse to limit fed­
After denying charges and stronger and better Bush was expected to eral spending to real that blacks and poor peo­communities throughout call for legislation that emergency needs and to ple were forgotten in the the Gulf Coast" and talk­would provide job train­offset the costs elsewhere search and recovery ing about the need to act ing, education, housing, in the budget. 

Foreign rrrinisters hold rare public 111eeting 
claim for a future state. The Israeli state-belilfe committing to warmer 
Associated Press 

foreign minister has already met ties. 
UNITED NATIONS -Israel's with­with his eounterparts from two nu~jor Qatar is a close U.S. ally in the drawal from Gaza yielded immediate Muslim countries, Indonesia and Persian Gulf and home to the U.S. returns on the world stage Thursday: Pakistan. Central Command's forward opera­praise from Qatar and an unusual Arab countries like Qatar are tions in the Middln East. meeting between the Arab emirate's encouraging efforts toward a new The nmirate's foreign ministnr, foreign minister and his Israeli coun­peace process as a way to ease the Shnik I Iamad bin Jassim bin .labor AI terpart. Palestinian-Israeli conflict and blunt Thani, said it was possible to estab­
The meeting, on the sidelines of the the inl'luence of Islamic militants, lish full diplomatic relations with 
U.N. summit, was described as a first who are using discontent about the Israel before thn formation of an step in efforts to arrange a summit Palestinians and war in Iraq to stir indnpendent Palestine. between the two nations. up unrest. "It could happnn," hn told n1portnrs 
The session was the latest diplo­There will be limits. however, to bnfore heading into the dosed nwnt­matic reward for Isranl's ending its the diplomatic payback. Muslim ing with Israeli Foreign Minister 3R-year occupation of the Gaza Strip nations expect major strides from Silvan Shalom. "But wn rwml to SOl\ a -the Jewish state's first-ever evaeu­Israel on the peacemaking front -if timr.tablr. -how we will start the ation of territory the Palestinians not the establishment of a Palestinian pnaee process and how we will nnd." 
Friday, September 16, 2005 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Dor01s 
continued from page 1 
struction on at least one new hall within the next three years." 
Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs Ann Firth said she didn't know exactly what combination of men's and women's dorms would be built. 
"My hunch would be we'd probably build a men's hall and a women's hall first," Firth said. "But that will depend a lot on what happens with housing trends between now and the time we actually begin construction, where the need is." 
This means that if the University receives enough funding to build all four requested dorms -a condition that may not be fulfilled -the breakdown will not necessarily be two men's and two women's halls. 
Along with the addition of new residence halls will be the renovation of existing halls, "to improve the experience of hall life campus-wide and to avoid great disparities between halls," Poorman said. 
While these plans mean campus-wide construction, Firth said the process would be conducted in the least dis­ruptive manner possible. 
"It's a pretty complex opera­tion," Firth said. "Our first reading is it won't entail clos­ing out an entire hall and mov­ing a community to another building -we're hoping we can do most of what needs to be done over the course of summer. There might be some continuation of the renovation during the academic year ... but we're hoping we can do all of this without having to ask anyone to vacate, move some­where else and move back." 
University architect Doug Marsh has not created design plans for the proposed halls yet, but Firth said officials were discussing "a conceptual understanding of what we might be looking for" for the new Residential Master Plan. 
And although they will have new features in mind, the new halls will not differ greatly from current halls. 
"One of the things that multi­ple studies we've done in the last couple of years has told us is that in many ways, residen­tial life is working at Notre Dame really well," Firth said. "So our goal is really to take the best of what we've got in terms of our existing halls, build new halls that have some of the new features that stu­dents like and want, but we don't want to create a disparity where one hall has everything under the sun and some of the existing halls would not be able to have those features." 
But the University would like a disparity to exist between rooms in each dorm, Firth said, explaining study findings where students supported the idea of rooms designated for upperclassmen with features like a living room, bathroom or better view. 
"We found that those halls that have those kinds of options are more attractive to upperclassmen, since you can see yourself progressing," Firth said. "That's a very natu­ral way to encourage people to stay on campus. It's not any­body's goal to have 100 per­cent of seniors living on cam­pus ... But we want to make sure that those who are inter­ested in staying on and being a part of the vibrant, campus residential community have approach as opposed to sen-iors-only hous­ing would not 

"/ am a complete
detract from the intermingling of believer in our classes within residential system. " 
the halls. Both Poorman 
Father Mark Poorman
and Firth also 
mentioned the Vice President of desire to reno­Student Affairs vate LaFortune 
Student Center and the Stepan Center. Those 
here?' I think that those con­cerns are very much a part of the planning process. 
"I like to think we're getting the best of what the new facili­ties have to offer without los­ing what we already have." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at 
mhannal@nd.edu 

Football Game Lodging B&B, 2miles from ND $125/night or immaculate 3bed house, 1mile from ND $1200/w-end 
232-8236 

Frl-Frl, Sept '16 -23, 2005 LIVe IRISH MUSIC DAILY 
Including International Bands ... 
Tue, Sept 20. 7pm & 10pm... THE FENIANS Wed. Sept 21, 9pm... BROCK McGUIRE Thu, Sept 22, 9pm ... TEADA Tickets $18 I concert or $48 for all three Students $15 I concert or $40 for all three 25% Student Discount on Food (Always) ALL PROCIEIEDS TO RIED CROSS 
Ffl)~leu .-.& Heaut:b 
127 N. Main Street (between Colfax & Washington) 232-2853""' 

taken to heart," Firth said. "You know, it's sometimes dif­ficult for any of us to see change because we say, 'Wow, that's so differ­ent.' We drive down the new roads and think, 'What happened 

New-professors adjust to teaching students 
some pretty nice options." 
Poorman echoed Firth's sen­timents on the number of sen­iors living off-campus. 
"I am a complete believer in our residential system," Poorman said. "With that said, I understand that on-campus living is not for everyone." 
Firth said the "ladder" 
entrance, Guglielmo Family Athletics Center and Health Services being just a few examples -Firth said the plans were being designed with the intention of protecting the campus feel. 
"I think that's something people who have been involved in campus planning have really 
Special to The Observer 

On Aug. 23, Notre Dame fresh­men stepped into their first class­es at the University, symbolically marking the right of passage from high school to college that has been in the making for years. 
But another group new to cam­pus experienced different "first day of school" jitters -the kind you get when you're the one mapping the direction of the class. From unpacking boxes to constructing courses, new faculty at Notre Dame face the same number of adjustments as the students they teach. 
"It's been a huge relief to be finished with grad school," says Abigail Waggoner Wozniak, a new assistant professor of eco­nomics and econometrics who recently earned her doctorate from Harvard. 
"I was fortunate to have advi­sors who were candid about this being a positive change, though I don't feel like I've made the tran­sition fully yet. I think the whole first year is described as one of transition." 
Waggoner Wozniak shares her newcomer status with two other assistant professors in the Department of Economies and Econometrics, Kasey Buckles and Dan Hungerman. 
"The department is oriented to absorbing three new people. Help like that is really valuable with all of us learning at the same time," she adds. 
Notre Dame's Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning offered a weeklong teaching seminar and orientation for new faculty, dur­ing which Waggoner Wozniak, Buckles and Hungerman could share concerns and exchange questions ranging from the mun­dane ("How do I get a copier code?") to the transcendent ("What is the Notre Dame philos­ophy and how do I fit in?"). 
"The collaborative effort of the orientation made it fun," Hungerman said. 
Combine a CaSUal evening 
with yourfriends and benefit 
the Boys & Girls Clubs of St. Joseph County. 
Papa Vino's Italiai1 Kitd1en offen,; you an opponunity to taste and compare a variety of wines in a f~::::>tive, outdoor atmosphere vvhik enjoy.ing apJ>etizers ~pedally selected to complement your \'>dne choices. Wine expct·ts will be ava.ilable to share wine tips and answer your questions. 
Adding to the enjoyment will he a silent auction of art and "vine. 
Ticket." are $35 and are linlitcd, so make res<.•rvations at Papa Vino's or the Boys & Girls c:Juhs. For tnore informati.on or to pu.rchase tickets. call 574-259-566{-:> ext. 2~il. All proceeds benefit the Boys & Girls Clubs of SL Joseph (;punty. 
we·rr see You There! 
W'edr)esday, Sc:ptemher 28, 6-9 p.m. Papa<Vino's Italian Kitchen""' Mishawaka 

"> J lO l!:cHson Lakc's P.k"""Y. Misha,.vaka, JN 465"15 

plans are even less definite than the ones for the new halls, although Poorman described the two buildings as "priorities" in the upcoming capital campaign. 
With the surge of construc­tion on and around the University -the campus road project, Notre Dame Avenue 
VERA 
BRADLEY'S 

New Fall Designs are atfltlp ~k ~k 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Friday, September 16, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
10,558.75 +13.85
Jones ~•
Ofjt Same: Down: Composlt.e VolumE 1,552 185 ~ 2,063,153,480 
AMEX 1,710.13 +19.80 NASDAQ 2,146.15 -3.1 s NYSf 7~5s3.T4 +5.85 S&PSOO I ,227.73 +0.57 NIKKEJ(Tol<yo) 12.986.78 0.00 FTSf IOO(London) 5, 3 S 3.50 +36.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) -0.05 -0.02 39.1· MICROSOFT CP (M5FT) -0.15 -0.04 26.2 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.07 +0.19 18.0. SIEBEL SYSTEMS (SEBL) -0.39 -0.04 I 0.3 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.24 +0.06 24.5 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.30 +0.58 45.11 I0-YEAR NOTE +1.10 +0.46 42.14 5-YEAR NOTE +0.91 +0.36 39.94 3-MONTH BILL +0.30 +0.1 0 33.55 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.34 64.75 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.60 459.3( PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.45 81.13 
fxcha Rates 

YEN 110.6351 EURO 0.818 POUND 0.553 CANADIAN$ 1.184' 
IN BRIEF 
Stocks nearly still as investors wait 
NEW YOHK-Stoeks barely moved Thursday as investors wondered whether a weller of weak nconomie data would end the Federal Hesnrvn's year-long streak of' interest rate hikns. 
Investors were displeased with the Philadnlphia Federal Hesnrve's report of a dedinn in almost every broad indkator it uses to nwasurn the health of its region's manufac­turing. The readings "suggest little to no growth this month," thn report said. 
The Labor lkpartmnnt roportnd lownr-than­expeeted inflation data, but gasoline prices jumped by thn largest amount in 2 1/2 years and unnmployrnnnt filings spiked. Roughly 6S,OOO Anwricans filed for unemployment last wtwk dun to llurrkane Katrina, the largest inernasn in rwarly a dncadn. 
Traders hope signs of a weakm1ing eeonomy will eausn the Fnderal Hnserve to eurb its year­plus stn~ak of int•~mst ratn hikns when the cen­tral bank's Opnn Market Committee meets next Tunsday. 
"A lot of invnstors are in a wait-and-see mode unlit wn gnt thn Fed bnhind us next Tuesday,'' said Arthur llogan. chinf market analyst at .Jofl'nrins & Co. 
Crude in New York ends lower 
NI~W YOHK-Crudo-oil futures in Nnw York ndgnd lownr Thursday, as eoneerns about slackening pntrolnum demand revisited the marknt. 
(;old futures surged to their highest levels of ttw year, f'twlnd by fund buying, traders and analysts said. 
The losses crnpt into the petroleum market as tradnrs shifted their foeus to signs of' weak­ening fuel demand and a slowing eeonomy dun to high erwrgy priens. 
"The oil marknt has been on a collision eoursn with tho neonomy, and it's only a mattnr of' limn before high priees start to afTeet it," said Pnt1~r Bnutnl, an analyst for onergy eonsul­tancy Camnron ll<mover in New Canaan, Conn. 
Bnndunark light, swnnt erudn oil f'uturns for October snttlnd down 34 cents at $64.75 a bar­rel on tho Nnw York Mercantile Exehange. 
Merck lawyer reprimanded in case 
Judge in second Vioxx case claims lead attorney violated pretrial instructions 
Associated Press 

ATLANTIC CITY, N.J.­
The judge hearing a. product 
liability suit against Merck & 
Co., the manufaeturer of' 
painkiller Vioxx, rnprimand­
nd the company's lead 
lawyer Thursday for violat­
ing pretrial instructions bar­
ring eomments abofit 
lawynrs in front of thn jury. 
Threatnning to dm:lare a mistrial. Supnrior Court Judgn Carol E. lligbnc said Merck lawyer Diane Sullivan had made rnpeated negativn ref'ernnees about attorneys in her opnning statement to jurors Wednesday, despite bPing told not to do so. 
"It's simply playing to the bias of jurors ... a eertain perception that there arn too many lawsuits and that it's causing society problems,'' Higbee said while the jury was out of' thn eourtroom. 
In Wednesday's opening, Sullivan made ref'erenee to plaintiff Frederick "Mike" llumnston bning "surround­nd by lawyers" and later crit­icized thnir intnrpretation of' evidence by saying, "That's not sdnncc, that's lawyering, lawynring, lawyering." 
Humeston, a 60-year-old postal worker from Boise, Idaho, alleges Vioxx caused him to suffer a heart attack four years ago. Humeston had been taking the block­buster drug for about two months to relieve lingering based Merck withdrew the ences to Merck having pulled label didn't tell him of the pain from a Vietnam War popular arthritis and pain Vioxx lrom the market. Both risks. shrapnel wound to his knee. treatment from the market sides had raised that faet in Lower said that Jlumeston I lis lawyers told jurors on in September 2004 after its opening statements. lligbnn had onee asked him about Wednesday, when testimony own resnareh showed Vioxx said it was not relevant amputating his leg because began, that Merek rushed doubled risk of hnart attaek bceause the withdrawal hap­the pain was so bad, but the produet onto the market, and stroke after 18 months' pened after Humeston's Vioxx relieved his pain afinr ignored evidenee of prob­usc. heart attaek and after he other drugs had failnd. lems with some patients and On Thursday, the start of filed suit. On cross-examination, didn't warn doetors or users testimony was delayed by When testimony resumnd Lewcr aeknowlNlged to that Vioxx could incrmL'>C the Higbee's criticism and a dis­Thursday, Dr. Gregory Mnrck attorney Sullivan that risk of heart attacks and pute over whether Merck Lower, Humeston's physi­all medieations eomn with strokes. would be allowed to admit cian. returned to the stand. risks. 
Sullivan denied thosn alle­into evidence a key 2005 Under questioning by The trial. one of' about gations, telling jurors that memo from a Food and Drug Humeston attorney Chris 2,475 Vioxx lawsuit" pnnding Merck's witnesses would Administration advisory Seeger, Lewnr said if hn had in New Jersey, is thn first prove Vioxx had nothing to committee. The judge ruled known of the Vioxx's poten­since a Texas jury found do with Humeston's heart it cannot bn admitted. tial cardiovascular risks. he Merck responsible for the attaek and the company Besides reiterating the wpuld never have prescribed death of a Vioxx usnr and researchnd the drug's efl'ecL" warning that attorneys it for Humeston. ordered a $253 million and reported the problems should not east aspersions "I didn't have the informa­award. That amount will bn when it found out about on other lawyers, Higbee on tion I wish I had at the time," sla..<;hed to about $26 million them. Thursday barred them from said Lewer, who said the beeause of Texas caps on 
Whitehouse Station, N.J.-making any further refer-Vioxx package insert and punitive damages. 
Indian firm to develop drug for E.coli 
Associated Press reporters injured soldiers during World War 
Developing the drug cost I, but their use subsided after the 
BANGALOHE. India -U.S. Gangagen $3 million, and Elaneo advent of antibiotics. pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly and plans to spend another $5 million However, improved baeterio­Co. plans to work with an Indian to produce the cattle feed. phages have regained popularity firm to develop a drug that uses The drug can help prevent the over the past dceade as an alter­benign viruses to kill the deadly bacteria from spreading to native to antibiotics, against E.eoli bacteria in cattle, the humans through contaminated whieh several bacteria have Indian company said Thursday. beef, whieh causes 70,000 inf'ee­dcvnlopcd resistance. 
India's Gangagen Biotechnolo­tions and a few dozen deaths eaeh The eompanies plan to earry out gies developed the drug and year in the United States alone, a trial among 400 eattln in signed an agreement last week Hamaehandran said. Canada nnxt year and launch tho with Elanco Animal Health, the "A coektail of such viruses can drug thorn by mid-2007. Thny animal feed division of be a better option than antibi­hope to start soiling it in the Indianapolis-based Eli Lilly, to oties, which are increasingly los­United States soon after. convert the drug into a cattle feed ing their edge," said Gangagen obtained two U.S. supplemnnt, Janakiraman Hamachandran. patents in July to use baeterio­Hamaehandran, chairman of Baeteriophages, as the viruses phages to cure infections without Gangagen Biotechnologies, told arc known, were used to treat sidc-ef'f'cets. 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 16, 2005 
The sophomore, who has he said slowly. "Football's a ported the booming sales wearing No. 75 and No. 16 on sold about 150 shirts so far by masculine sport. This ... this claim. The picked-over their jerseys "commemorate
Shirt 

word of mouth, said alumni text is too flowery." assortment offered only the 75th anniversary of Notre 
associations have been con­Although he will don a
continued from page 1 

tacting him and requesting "Charlie's Army" shirt past two years -Bookstore batches of 25 shirts at a time . Saturday, Lentz said he would director of retail operations ever since he was spotted buy a Shirt "out of respect for Sally Wiatrowski said more wearing it on the school." than 54,000 Shirts have been ESPN's College For his part, sold so far -the new gold Gameday at the Weis said the color and design has some Notre Dame­"/don't care what power of the fans up in arms. Pittsburgh game. they wear, just be student sec­
Following three years of Sophomore Taryn tion comes
loud.''

kelly green Shirts, this year's Lewis will also be from enthusi­model is gold and bears the sporting an alterna­asm, not words "The Spirit of Notre tive shirt to Charlie Weis apparel. Dame." The color and design Saturday's game -head football coach "I just want immediately sparked debate "the one that has it to be loud," after The Shirt's unveiling last [head Irish coach he said. "I spring, and sizeable groups of Charlie] Weis' year-don't care students have rebelled by book picture on the back." what they wear, just be loud. pledging to continue wearing Although Lewis has bought Loud is what I'm going to green or by creating their own The Shirt -"I don't mind it," encourage here in the next 24 original gold designs. she said -she has fallen head hours." 
"I was absolutely appalled over heels for her new pur­Despite the negative reac­and dismayed. [The Shirt] was chase. tions, The Shirt -along with just bad. We expected some­"I might wear [The Shirt] to the "Attitude" shirt, a black thing that would reflect the a couple of games," Lewis tee featuring the eyes of a students much said. "But the football player on front and better," said one 'Bring on the the words ""SMART, DISCI­of the two soph­"I was absolutely Nasty' shirt is just PLINED, TOUGH, NASTY" on omores who has appalled and too tempting." back -has been selling very been selling the When asked well, Wiatrowski said. 
dismayed. [The
"Charlie's Army" what she would "With the last two wins, our
Shirt] was just bad.,,
T-shirts dotting wear Saturday, Web site has seen a lot of the campus. He senior Katherine activity for those two items," spoke on the student Graziano laughed Wiatrowski said. The Shirt condition of and said emphati­sales are most comparable to
seller of "Charlie's 
anonymity cally, "Not The the 2002 season, she said,
Army" shirt
because he Shirt!" "but we're hoping to exceed feared repercus-''I'm just going even those numbers, quite sions of selling alternative to stick to wearing something honestly." shirts. green," she said. "I don't real­Wiatrowski said she thought 
His shirts, which are gold ly like the color, and I've this year's increased sales and read "Irish''Football 2005: never really been a proponent could be a result of the change We're Putting the Nasty Back of oversized shirts." from green to gold, the 75th in Dynasty," are just one Sophomore John Lentz saw anniversary of Notre Dame example of the many student­The Shirt for the first time at Stadium or "the rejuvenation produced alternatives to The the Bookstore on Wednesday. of the football program." Shirt circulating around cam­His initial reaction? The Shirt display at the pus. "It's not very emasculating," Bookstore Wednesday sup-extra large sizes. It's hard to Dame Stadium and the 16th guess what will happen in the year of The Shirt, respective­stands on Saturday. Maybe ly," Fox said. The Shirt will be more popu­This year's gold color is a lar than many people think, change from "the sea of freshman Tessa Romano said. green," a phrase Fox said was 
"I don't really like the writ­coined by former head Irish ing on the front that much," coach Tyrone Willingham. Romano said. "But I think it Whatever happens on might catch on if you give it a Saturday, the real matter of chance." importance is not what stu­
Senior David DiLorenzo is a dents wear, alumni said. It's potential indicator of. what their spirit. could be a last-minute Shirt Taryn Lewis' mother, a 1980 boom. Notre Dame graduate and 
"''m probably going to buy football fan Maureen Lewis, it," he said. "I don't think it's said while she liked "the sea that bad. It's for a good of green effect," she doesn't cause." see a big correlation between 
The good cause is a big sell­student spirit and The Shirt. ing point for some people. "There was no uniform per President of The Shirt Katie se [when I was in school] but Fox said all the profits go to we all pretty much wore some Student Activities and shirt that said ND. Back in the 
Organiza-tions as  day  they  were  
well as The Shirt  mostly  blue  or  
Charity Fund and The Hector's  "It's hard for any  white," Lewis said. "I think we  
Fund. "The Project,  Shirt as  one product to please everyone.,  were just as spirited as this generation."  
always, has got­ Hache! English,  
ten both negative  Katie Fox  a  1984  Notre  
and positive feed­ president of The Shirt  Dame graduate,  
back," Fox said.  said while every­ 
"With  such  a  one  dressed  
large  student,  "really preppy"  

alumni and fan base, it's hard to football games when she for any one product to please was a student, she liked the everyone." concept of The Shirt. 
Fox said the quote on the "I think it looks neat. I think back of The Shirt -"If you it's fun," she said. "But it's not could bottle the Notre Dame a big deal. It's still the stu­spirit, it would light up the dents cheering." universe" -was said by for­mer quarterback Joe Theisman. Contact Maddie Hanna at 
The two players depicted mhannal@nd.edu 


r------------------------------------~-~-~­
Friday, September 16, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
set priee with the proceeds tomor," he said. .
the College highlights pro­
posed ehanges, which range 
already built in, so I don't Kaplan said this was not the
Plan 
Bands 

from a new classroom build­
know." ease for the llannah and Fri1mds 
continued from page 1 The Hannah and Friends wristbands.
continued from page 1 ing and multi-purpose center 
wristbands were started to help "When somebody buys Ia
to refurbishment of' the resi­
he wasn'~t entirely sure what create awareness as well as wristband I some ol' the eost gons 
dence halls. Other planned 
it eertainly has taken more changes include the renova­
portion of the money made !'rom generate money for the· founda­to pay l'or production and thn 
each wristband directly supports tion and South Bend's Logan r,c~t g'!.ns t1~ llannah and
tirno than plannod in the tion and expansion of Angela 
the charity. Center, which offers programs f.rwnds, he smd. 
study to raiso the money Athletic Facility, an upgrade 
"It really depends because it's and activities for people with In fact, many wristbands sold
nnnded for the vrojects," of the seienee hall and the 
Stkklllmaier said. eventual eonstruction of 
difl'erent," Kaplan said. "We disabilities, Kaplan said. online only guarantee a 1 0 pnr­
Approximatnly $20 million a second on-campus 
don't actually produce the wrist­The Hannah and Friends cent donation to charity. 
was raisnd and spent to apartment eomplex. 
bands, so we don't know how organization is "dedicated to Freshman Scott Ogren, who 
build the student elubhouse, The next project tackled 
much they're sold at. A separate providing a better quality of life owns a blue eystie fibrosis wrist­
company handles that for us, for children and young adults band, said wristbands do more
thn weleomn center, the under the Master Plan will 
but it's different priees based on affected by Autism and global than just raise money. 
Nobln Family dining hall, the be construetion of the new 
how many they buy, that kind of delays," aceording to the group's "The charities are gntting
student cnntnr and to rnno­academic building slated to 
vate Hegina and McCandless replace previous plans to 
thing." Web site. money plus recognition," Ogren 
residence halls, Stickelmaier renovate Madeleva Hall, the 
The Hannah and Friends Freshman Pete Checki bought said. "People come up to mn and 
bracelets are produced by a wristband at Meijer the first ask what it is and I say eystie
said. College's current academic 
"The Master Plan proeess building. 
Forever Collectibles, a sports day it came out. fibrosis and it's good for awarn­
began in 1 99S and involved "The work on the new aca­
and entertainment memorabilia "I know it eost $2 Ito buy]. but ness, because lcystic fibrosis! is 
input from all sectors of' the demie building is currently 
eompany based in New I don't know how mueh of that not overly well-known." 
campus eommunity," in the design phase," 
Brunswick, N.J. goes to charity -maybe 50 per­Ogren had not heard of the 
"We'll sell [the wristbands! to eent," he said. Hannah and Friends program
Stieknlmaier said. "Needs for Stickelmaier said. "We hope 
Saint Mary's Collnge were to open the building for 
the distributor at anywhere More than 50 percent of a until his friend told him about 
determined and means to classes in fall of 2008." 
from a dollar to $1.50," said total sale going to a charity is them. 
Carl Bussewitz, a representative valuable, said Jim Paladino, an "My parents bought a hunch
nwnl thoso noeds wnre pro­Stickelmaier said faculty, 
from Forever Collectiblos. assistant direetor at the Center of them," Ogren said. 
posed. Budgets Wllre estab­staff' and students have been 
lishnd nnd <t final plan was pleased with the ehanges 
"Obviously, the higher we can for Social Concerns. Other students aren't so sure 
writtnn in Iatil 1999." that have taken place on 
sell to the distributor, the higher "For something like a wrist­about the recent wristband fad. 
StickelmaiHr said the goal campus. 
we can give to the foundation." band, that's not bad at all," "You've got people who have 
ol' the improvements is to "I believe the campus com­
According to Bassewitz, Paladino said. "Any direct dona­six difl'ernnt eolors just to match 
attract more prospective stu­munity has been very sup­
Forever Collectibles does not tion is going to be better, but the what they're wearing," senior 
profit from the sale. trade-ofT is, 'Can you get some­Chris Kepner said. "Are you
dnnts and to bring Saint portive of the plan," she 
Mary's into thn 21st century. said. 
"We're giving almost all of the one to give you $2 and take the really thinking about the cause 
proceeds to charity. What retail­full profit or can you take 7 5 or are you just into fashion'?" 
"Whiln wn don't have any Students like junior Eileen 
ers do with [the rest of the cents from somebody off the Paladino said the wristbands
nmpirieal data that statisti­Boyec appreciate the many 
money!. I don't know," he said. wristband?'" have a positivo effect despite
cally provos nnw facilities benefits of' the new buildings 
Ollieials at the Hammes Notre As for the Relay For Life-pro­their status as a trend.
havn a positive impact on on campus. 
recruitnwnt, thorn is general "I love having the student 
Dame Bookstore, the primary duced LiveStrong wristbands, "My gut is that it's still bllSt to 
campus retailer for the wrist­whose entire proceeds are make the dirnct contribution,
aeeoptnnco tlwt thnsn types center to do homework in," 
of changns are an indication Boyee said. ''I'm also looking 
bands, were unclear as to how donated to charity, Paladino but if this purpose is not just to 
that the institution is moving forward to Opus apartments 
much wristbands sold there explains that somebody is mak­makn a contribution but to raise 
benefit the foundation. ing up the difTerence. awareness then it's not a bad
forward as it striVIlS for eon­for next year. It will be exeit­
Bookstore manager Sally "It probably means that the deal," Paladino said. 
lin ual improvements," ing to see what else is 
Slicknlmuinr said. "Wn ehangnd in the future." 
Wiatrowski was unable to give Helay For Life had the costs fi>r Direct donations ean be made 
always felt that thesn facili­
an exact figure. ~ making the band donatod, so the at hannahandfriends.org. 
ties would support the 
"You know, I don't know !how cost is coming out of one person 
mueh goes to charity!, said or corporation who's making the Contact Jack Thornton at
admission procoss." Contact Laura Baumgartner at 
Wiatrowski. "It comes to me at a wristbands, and not the eus-jthornt4@nd.edu
A pamphlnt distributed by lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Photo courtesy of South Bend Tribune Elephantiasis ofthe leg 
SAINT JOSEPH REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER AND THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION PRESENT 
THE 13TH ANNUAL EMIL T. HOFMAN LECTURE 
Seven Quiz Questions for Catholics in Biomedicine, and Some Notre Dame Answers: The Eradication ofElephantiasis in Haiti 
Saturday, September 17th, 2005 10:00-11:00 a.m. (before the game) University ofNotre Dame DeBartolo Hall, Room 101 
Father Streit's work in the program to eliminate elephantiasis from Haiti has been assisted by a 5.2 million dollar grant to Notre Dame from the · Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 16, 2005 
Bush says U.S. to handle tnost of Katrina cost 
President outlines post-hurricane plans, says 'city will rise again' in national address Thursday 
Associated Press 
NEW OHLEANS -President Bush promised Thursday night the government will pay most of the costs of rebuilding the hur­ricane-ravaged Gulf Coast in one of the largest reconstruc­tion projects the world has ever seen. 
"There is no way to imagine America without New Orleans, and this great city will rise again," the president said. 
Standing in Jackson Square in the heart of the French Quarter, Bush acknowledged his admin­istration had failed to respond adequately to Hurricane Katrina, which killed hundreds of people across five states. The government's costs for rebuild­ing could reach $200 billion or beyond. 
"Four years after the frighten­ing experience of Sept. 11, Americans have every right to expect ·a more effective response in a time of emer­gency," the president said. When the government fails to meet such an obligation, Bush said, "I as president am respon­sible for the problem, and for the solution." 
Bush ordered his Cabinet sec­retaries to join in a comprehen­sive review of the government's faulty response. In addition, he told the Department of Homeland Security to under­take an immediate review of emergency plans in every major city in America. 
He also said a disaster on the scale of Katrina requires greater federal authority and a broader role for the armed forces. 
Unusual for a prime-time address, Bush stood tieless in a blue dress shirt. At his back, the famous palm tree-framed St. Louis Cathedral was brightly lit. Elsewhere in the famed city, workers were still pumping out flooded neighborhoods and col­lecting bodies left behind in the frantic evacuation. 

Bush proposed establishment of worker recovery accounts providing up to $5,000 for job training, education and child care during victims' search for employment. He also urged leg­islation to provide education, small business help and health care. He proposed creation of a Gulf Opportunity Zone in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama offering tax breaks to encourage businesses to stay in the devastated region and new businesses to open. 
In the speech, which lasted a bit over 20 minutes, he said he would ask Congress to approve an Urban Homesteading Act in which surplus federal property would be turned over to low­income citizens by means of a lottery to build homes, with mortgages or assistance from charitable organizations. 
Bush repeated a hotline num­ber, 1-877-568-3317, for people to call to help reunite family members separated during the hurricane. Moments later, Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., criticized Bush, saying "Leadership isn't a speech or a toll-free number." 
"No American doubts that New Orleans will rise again," Kerry said. "They doubt the competence and commitment of this administration." 
House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid, in a joint statement, said, "We are concerned by Bush adminis­tration initiatives this week waiving wage protections, envi­ronmental safeguards and pro­tections for veterans, minori­ties, women and the disabled." 
Bush described the hurri­cane's aftermath as "days of sorrow and outrage," and he said the nation had "witnessed the kind of desperation no citi­zen of this great and generous nation should ever have to know." He deplored scenes of victims calling out for food and 
Sex survey finds more women try bisexuality 
Research says females admittedly experiment 
Associated Press 
More women -particularly those in their late teens and 20s -are experimenting with bisexuality or at least feel more comfortable reporting same-sex encounters, according to a new report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
The survey, released Thursday by the CDC's ~ational Center for Health Statistics, found that 11.5 percent of women, ages 18 to 44, said they've had at least one sexual experience with another women in their lifetimes, com­pared with about 4 percent of women, ages 18 to 59, who said the same in a comparable sur­vey a decade earlier. 
For women in their late teens and 20s, the percentage rose to 14 percent in the more recent survey. About 6 percent of men in their teens and 20s said they'd had at least one same­sex encounter. 
While those who conducted the survey took measures to 

protect respondents' privacy, researchers say it's unclear whether the figure for men was lower because they're are more likely to avoid same-sex experi­ences or whether they're not reporting them. 
It wouldn't surprise Kat Fowler, a 27-year-old art stu­dent who dates both women and men, if men were less 
likely to talk 

'There's a certain 
about their 

higher level of
experiences. 

"There's a discrimination certain higher for men." level of dis­crimination 
Kat Fowler 
(for men). It's a lot easier for student women to University of Florida 
have these kinds of expe­riences and be open about it because it's more accepted," said Fowler, who attends the University of Florida. 
The findings on bisexuality and other aspects of Americans' sexual habits were taken from the National Survey of Family Growth, which included 12,571 in-person interviews, done from March 2002 to March 2003. Overall, water, criminals who had no mercy, and bodies of the dead lying uncovered in the street. 

He said the suffering of vic­tims was tempered by acts of courage and kindness. To the hundreds of thousands of peo­ple forced from their homes, Bush said, "You need to know that our whole nation cares about you -and in the journey ahead you are not alone." 
Promising better days ahead, Bush said, "The streets of Biloxi and Gulfport will again be filled with lovely homes and the sound of children playing. The churches of Alabama will have their broken steeples mended and their congregations whole. 
"And here in New Orleans, the street cars will once again rumble down St. Charles, and the passionate soul of a great city will return." 
Bush faced the nation at a vulnerable point in his presi­dency. Most Americans disap­prove of his handling of Katrina, and his job-approval rating has been dragged down 
researchers said the report shows that most people have relatively few partners and are at a low risk for sexually trans­mitted diseases. 
"Instead ofjust anecdotes and stories that raise people's anxi­eties, I think it's best to have real numbers," said William Mosher, the statistician who 
oversaw the report. "And now we have those." 
When it comes to women and same-sex relationships, Mosher said it would be worth studying why young women s·eek such relationships, and whether they may be trying to avoid diseases more commonly spread 
through sex with men. 

But some experts who study sexuality say it's even more likely that many college stu­dents simply see experimenta­tion as a rite of passage. 
"It's very safe in the academic community; no one thinks any­thing of it," said Elayne Rapping, a professor of American studies at the University of Buffalo who has to the lowest point of his presi­dency also because of dissatis­faction with the Iraq war and rising gas prices. He has strug­gled to demonstrate the same take-charge leadership he dis­played after the Sept. 11 terror attacks four years ago. 
Across five Gulf Coast states, the death toll from Katrina climbed Thursday to 794, led by 558 in Louisiana. 
Faulting the government's response, Bush said that Katrina "was not a normal hur­ricane -and the normal disas­ter relief system was not equal to it." State officials have blamed the federal government for failing to respond more quickly, and federal officials have pointed fingers at state and local officials. 
Responding to charges that help would have been sent more quickly if most victims had not been poor and black, Bush noted that the persistent poverty, rooted deep in the Gulf region, was broadcast for all Americans to see. 
written about sexuality. 
"But to some extent there's more talk than action," she added, noting that the bisexual­ity label has become a "badge of courage" for some college women, even those who only date men. Meanwhile, she said, men who have same-sex expe­riences are often less likely to talk about it publicly. 
The trend among college women has prompted some sexual behavior experts to light-heartedly refer to the term "LUG," or "lesbian until gradu­ation," said Craig Kinsley, a neuroscientist at the University of Richmond who studies the biology of sexual orientation and gender. 
In other findings, the survey said that about 10 percent of females, ages 15 to 19, and 12 percent of males had experi­enced heterosexual oral sex but not vaginal intercourse. While no earlier data were available for young women, percentages for young men in 1992 were about the same, researchers said. 
Those numbers dropped sub­stantially for people in their 20s, who were more likely to have had vaginal intercourse. 
Titnes to set fee for access to -writers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The mar­quee columnisl'i for The New York Times' Op-Ed page ­including Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd and Frank Rieh -generate lots of interest and discussion online. Now, the paper is hop­ing they'll also generate something else: cash. 
Beginning Monday, the Times will begin charging $49.95 a year to people who don't get the paper delivered at home for access to those writers as well as other columnists for the Times' business, metro and sports sections. 
The new service called TimesSelect will also include access to the Times' archives, early looks at some sections of the paper and online tools for tracking and storing arti­cles from the Times Web site. The Times will still maintain a separate premium service f{Jr its crossword puzzles. 
It's a bold move for the Times since the restrictions are certain to reduce the online exposure for those columnists, whose articles are routinely among the most e-mailed items on the Times' Web site. The Times could also see a decline in traffic to its site after bloggers can no longer link to articles by the columnists. 
Eliot Pierce, who oversees the TimesSelect project at the Times' Web site, said the paper is hoping to sign up enough users and home delivery subscribers to the new program so that the Op­Ed columnists "remain part of the dialogue." 
Pierce acknowledged that a number of bloggers were likely to "game" the system by illegally copying and past­ing the columns onto free sites, which would violate copyright law, but he said he didn't expect such infringe­mimts to be widespread or to last long. 
"I think people may be get ting bored with illegally post­ing the Op-Ed columns on free sites," Pierce said, "but we will keep a very close eye on it." 
Bloggers will still be able to quote parts of the columns, and the Times also plans to offer bloggers an arrange­ment under which they would sell subscriptions to TimesSelect on their own sites and take a share of the revenues they generate. 
Early responses to the pro­gram were mixed. 
Glenn Reynolds, who runs a popular blog called Instapundit.com, said he was "completely mystified" by the Times' plans to start charging non-subscribers for access to its Op-Ed columnists. 
"It seems to me that it's a fairly narrow market that's going to pay for the privilege of reading columns by Maureen Dowd and Paul Krugman and such," said Reynolds, who is a law pro­fessor at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville. 

Friday, September 16, 2005 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page II 
UNITED NATIONS 

Iran ready to share nuclear secrets 
Nation's president threatens to give technology to other Islamic states 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -Iran is willing to provide nuclear tochnology to other Muslim states, Iran's hard-line presi­dnnt said Thursday. llours later, European nations renewed an offer of economic inenntives if the mideast nation would halt its uranium enrichment. 
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad made the com­ment after talking with Turkny's prime minister dur­ing a gathering of world leadnrs at 
They are still on the table," British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said after the 80-minute meeting. "They have yet prop­erly to. be,considered by the other s1de. 
German Foreign Minister Joshcka Fischer said the EU is waiting for the new Iranian government to make its pro­posals. 
"We just underlined that our position is on the table, our position is unchanged and we are waiting now for the announcement of the new pro­posals of the Iranians," he 
thn United "We put forth said. Nations, Iran's Straw said the
proposals. They are 
state-run Islamic EU ministers
still on the table. " 
Hnpublic News would hold a Agency said. meeting later Ahmadinejad· Thursday with
Jack Straw 
repnatnd promis­the Iranian presi­
British Foreign 
es that Iran will dent, Mahmoud
Secretary
not develop Ahmedinejad, 
nucloar weapons, thn report said. Thnn ho addnd: "Iran is ready to transfnr nudoar know-how to the Islamic countries due to their neod." 
At tho Unitod Nations, for­eign ministors of Britain, Franco and Germany -the thrnn European countries nngotiating with Iran on hnhalf of the Europnan Union -emorged from a m11eting with Iran's new foroign minis­ter, Manouchnhr Mottaki, and its top nuelear negotiator, Ali Larijani, to say that the offer thny had madn oarlier was still on the table. 
"We put forth proposals. 

·and U.N. S e c r e t a r y ­General Koli Annan. 
The U.S. State Department expressed concern about Ahmedinejad's reported pro­posal, saying it makes it more vital that other countries work in concert to stop the Iranian threat. 
The EU-Jranian meetings took placn amid growing oppo­sition from countries to refer­ring the Iran nuclear dispute to the U.N. Security Council. 
The United States, which suspects Iran may be seeking to develop nuclear weapons, and European countries warned last week that Tehran 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE WOMEN'S BASEBALL CLUB! 
***NEW FALL CLUB SPORT*** (Also open to full-time Uni1•ersity ofNotre Dame and Holy Cross College female students) 
....... 

FOR MORE INFORMATION ON THIS EXCITING ATHLETIC OPPORTUNITY CONTACT: John Kovach, Club Advisor (574) 284-5282 or jkovach@saintmarys.edu 
2005-06 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

l\(·((H'S Frorn The liHHion Stng-e ~rw(1:L~~1-,ll NI(;Jirf 
by William Shakespeare 
Wednesday, September 14 Thursday, September 15 • Friday, September 16 All performances at 7:30 p.m. Washington Hall 

General Public $18 • Faculty/Staff/Senior Citizens $16 • Students $12 
Tockvts available altho DeBmtolo Performing Arts Cunler lockul offoce. MasterCard and V1sa orders accepted Call 574·631·2800 or purchase tickets online at http://performingarts.nd.edu/. 
Tho Actors ros1doncy IS supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
F:f.1VNIV!!RSI"JYOf' ~DEBARTOlO "*'NOTRE DAME ~I'UfORMINOAITSC:f.Nn:t 
Body called to lead fight against terror 

is running out of time to freeze uranium processing activities or face referral to the Security Couneil. 
But Tehran, which says its nuclear program is for peace­ful energy production, has rejected the threat and has warned the United Nations not to go down that road. On Sunday, Mottaki said his coun­try wants to continue dialogue with Europe without preeondi­tions. 
Diplomats and officials said in Vienna that due to opposi­tion by veto-wielding Security Council members Hussia and China, as well as by India, Pakistan and other key nations, Washington and the EU were reluctantly weighing less severe options for Monday's board meeting of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency. They spoke  on  condi­ 
tion of' anonymity.  
Franee,  Britain  and  

Germany, together with the European Union, have sought for two years to persuade Iran to give up some nuclear activi­ties that can be used to make weapons, but negotiations broke down over the summer and it ended an agreement reached in Paris. 
Since then, Iran has resumed aetivities related to uranium enrichment after rejecting a European package of proposals that had called on Iran to permanently stop its uranium enrichment program in return for a supply of nuclear fuel and economic incentives. 
Straw pointed out that the meetings Thursday were the first with the Iranian side since the election of Ahmedinejad in June. 
Asked whether the European were losing ground in the negotiations, Straw replied: "What we're doing is talking and that is always better than not talking. There is a new government. They wish to explain their position." 
France's foreign minister called the discussions a signif­icant moment. 


Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS-Russia and China called Thursday for the United Nations to take the lead in the global fight against terrorism, speaking on the sec­ond day of a U.N. summit where a new Arab-Israeli meeting and European nuclear talks with Iran took the spot­light. 
The demands for a bigger 
U.N. role underlined how cen­tral terrorism has become around the world since the Sept. 11 attacks. U.S. They also highlighted that, while Washington and others want serious reform before the U.N. tackles new challenges, some nations want to give it more responsibility now. 
"There is a need to adjust 
this organization Nations head­
'There is a need to
to the new his­quarters bn 
torical reality," adjust this movnd to Russian organization to the Jerusalem. President "The proposal
new historical
Vladimir Putin has thn merit of said. "Who else reality." providing a will take the role response to thn of coordinating conf"lict experi­
Vladimir Putln 
and organizing enced by
Russian President
this work but the 
United Nations?" 
He was echoed by Chinese President Jlu Jintao, who called for a new global security concept that puts the United Nations at "the core" of efforts to light terrorism and settle disputes and conflicts. 
While those views may help determine the future of the United Nations, events on the summit's sidelines and fiery bombast from some of the world's most eolorful and con­troversial leaders pulled atten­tion away from the meeting's central concerns. 
Among the biggest headlines, Iran's president said his coun­try was willing to provide nuclear technology to other Muslim states. 
The foreign ministers of Israel and Qatar met, in a sign that Israel's relations with the Arab world may be improving since its withdrawal from the 

1213 Lincolnway West-Mishawaka Corner of Logan & Lincolnway 
(574) 256-1444 Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for 2.5 years! 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
~VJEJLCOMllE lFOOTJBV\lLlL lFJRUJENlD>§ 
AND lFAM[J[JLY~ 
Tuesday-Thursday s:oo-9:oo  Full bar available  
Friday & Saturday  Free bruschetta with ad  
s:oo-1o:oo  Frat1cesco~ s Heeds servers  

Caza Strip. 
Also, a U.N. treaty to fight global corruption got its :~Oth ratilkation, triggering its nntry into lim:e in 90 days. The con­vention empowers countries to prosoeutn ollieials aeeused of stealing public funds. 
"This dream has beeonw a reality," said Antonio Maria Costa, executive dirnetor of' thn 
U.N. Oflic~1 of Drugs and Crime. 
Between news conf'erenetlS by Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf, French Prime Minister Dominique de Villopin and various nongovernmental organizations, Venezuela's President Hugo ChavPz seoldnd evangelist Pat Hobertson for e·alJing for his assassination and also criticized the U.S. govern­mont. 
lie suggestnd the United 
Palestine, but it may be diiTicult to bring about," 
Chavez said in a speech that earned him the heartiest applause of the 55 leaders to speak so far. 
This summit was called for two main reasons -to rnview progress toward aehinving eight goals meant to improve the plight of the world's poor and to consider a raft of pro­posals to overhaul tho U.N. itself. 
Most of the speec:hes focusml on those efl'ort..'i. 
Leaders generally exprnssnd their support for the draft doc­ument that was expeeted to be adopted on tlw summit's last day Friday, though they said they were disappointed sonw clements were left out, indud­ing Sm:urity Coundl ref'onn and nudnar disarmanwnt and non­proliferation. 
A near constant refrain was that the Unit11d Nations should 
play a  larger role in world  
afl'airs.  
The  president  of'  the  

Philippines, Gloria Maeapagal Arroyo, went further than most when she suggested the Unitnd Nations take the lead in nasing the e!Teets of' high oi I pricns. She said it should study oil rationing and conservation, as well as consider initiatives to fuel engines with coconut oil and convert cane sugar to ethanol. 
While snveral leaders made oblique referenees to the United States by saying no nation should act alonn and outside the United Nations, nations spoke far morn sympa­thetically than they had shortly aller the Iraq war. 
Chavez was one of few to erit­idzn the UnitPd States directly. Belarus l'rnsident Alnxander Lukasheno, accused of wide­sprnad human right..<> abusns in his country, also criticized the Arnnrieans for the war in Iraq. 
"Saddam llussnin was aban­doned to the winnnrs' rnnrey, like in barbarian times," Lukashnnko said. "Thnrn is nobody to defend their rights except the U.N." 

page 12 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 16, 2005 
EGYPT 

Hundreds of Palestinians pour into Egypt from Gaza Strip 
Troops can't stop those fleeing; Israeli officials fear militants and al-Qaida terrorists may infiltrate security breach 
Associated Press 
RAFAH Palestinians blasted holes in an Israeli­built wall and overwhelmed Egyptian troops on the Gaza border to flow by the hun­dreds into Egypt on Thursday, foiling attempts to impose control after days of unhin­dered crossings. 
Israeli and Palestinian lead­ers expressed fears that mili­tants and al-Qaida terrorists will infiltrate Gaza and Israel through the border, which has been open since Israeli troops withdrew from the Palestinian territory. 
Egypt had promised to reim­pose border controls by Thursday evening, and in the morning several hundred policemen were deployed at the main crossing points ­more than the few dozen seen over the past days. They allowed Palestinians to return to Gaza and managed to slow the number entering Egypt to a trickle for part of the day. 
But after hours of pushing and shoving at the Saladin border crossing in Rafah, the police line broke and hun­dreds of Palestinians crossed the border. Faced with the large crowds, many police­men gave up and the crossing became almost as open as it was in the past days. 
The so-called Canada cross­ing was closed by police ­but less than a mile away, hundreds of Palestinians passed through an olive grove and crossed freely through a break in the wall at the bor­der. 
Egypt has yet to deploy the bulk of the 750 border guards it promised to station on the frontier under a deal with Israel. A local official said it could be another three days before the guards, who are more heavily armed than the police, are jn place. 
To avert friction, Egypt wants the flow of people to subside before it brings in the soldiers, said the official, who is part of the Hafah govern­ment and spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to release the information. 
Palestinian security forces also were struggling to con­trol the number of Gazans crossing, especially with the many breaches opening up in the high wall Israel had built along the border. 
The militant Palestinian group llamas blasted a hole in the wall north of Rafah before dawn Thursday to help people get through. In the afternoon, a second explosion blasted a hole about a mile further down the wall, report­edly by the group Islamic Jihad. 
Israel's Foreign Ministry expressed fears that interna­tional terrorists will exploit the chaotic border to infil­trate Gaza and Israel. 
"We're talking about Iran, we're talking elements in Syria, we're talking about groups like Hezbollah and we're talking also about inter­national terrorist groups like al-Qaida," said spokesman Mark Hegev. Israel has long accused both Iran and Syria of sponsoring militant groups. 

Israel, which withdrew its last troops from Gaza on Monday, is also concerned that Palestinian militants might slip into Egypt, then infiltrate Israel across the long, lightly guarded Israel­Egypt border -bypassing the fence between Gaza and Israel. 
Rafiq Husseini, the top aide to Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas, said the 
Palestinian leadership is "even more worried than Israel about al-Qaida coming here because al-Qaida will harm us more than Israel." 
Such a presence, he said, would hurt prospects for peace and renewed negotia­tions with Israel. 
There have been a string of attacks in Egypt's Sinai penin­sula over the past year, including deadly al-Qaida­style bombings in the Egyptian resorts of Taba and Ras Shitan last October and in Sharm el-Sheik in July. 
Groups claiming links to al­Qaida took responsibility for those attacks, and Egyptian authorities say new Islamic militant groups have arisen in the peninsula -but they are still trying to determine if they have any real connection to al-Qaida or other interna­tiona! terrorists. 
Gazans, meanwhile, reveled for another day in their new freedom after years of Israeli travel restrictions. Many store shelves in the Egyptian side of Rafah were cleaned out as Palestinians continued their shopping spree. 
Prices in Egypt are far lower than in Gaza -or at least were until the flood of new demand hit Hafah. 


SPIIDTALKSM 
THI fAITIIT WA~ TO~ 

speedtalk~ 
Unlimited SpeedTalk Minutes Walkie-talkie-style service 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
$49.95 per month 


• AOL8' Instant Messenger~ service-FREE Trial 
• Buy 1 and get up to 3 LG UX4750 phones FREE 
(with 2-year contracts and mail-in rebates) 
j(us.Cellular 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
Offer valid on two-year service agreement on local and national plans of $49.95 or higher. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Credit approval required. $30 activa­tion fee. $15 equipment change tee. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges. overage charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Regulatory Cost Recovery Fee charge applies. This is not a tax or govern­ment required charge. Local network coverage and reliability may vary. Usage rounded up to the next full minute.-Use of service constitutes acceptance of our terms and conditions. Use of the AOL• Instant Messenger"' service mobile application requires easyedge'" data services on the account. The length of the validity tor the AOL~ Instant Messenger'" service Free Trial shall not exceed more than one full day's time. Buy one get three free only valid if a two-year service agreement is purchased for SpeedTalk service on all handsets and requires mail-in rebate per line. Promotional phone is subject to change. Allow 10-12 weeks for rebate processing. SpeedTalk: SpeedTalk capable handset required. SpeedTalk calls may only be made with other U.S. Cellular SpeedTalk subscribers. SpeedTalk is only available in U.S. Cellular's enhanced services coverage areas. While you are on a SpeedTalk call. your wireless calls will go direct­ly to voicemail. If you roam outside of U.S. Cellular's enhanced services coverage area you will not be able to place a SpeedTalk call. SpeedTalk is a proprietary service mark of U.S. Cellular. Other restrictions apply. See store for details. Limited time offer. ©2005 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 
Friday,September 16, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 



THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 14 
Friday, September 16, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MAiiY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 63!-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(57.4) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. I @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor i11 ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

T11e Oh:ocrvc:r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi8hcd Monday through Friday ~c:pt during enm and vac;ation periods. Asubscription w The Ob~r b; $100 Wr one academi<: year; $55 for one semesrcr 
The Ohscrvu is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send ad.d.ress cw~etiom ro: 
Notre Dame, 1N 46'556.0779 Titc Observer 
Periodical ~age paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
.md ~ddidomtl m~ling offi<:<:!'. 024 South Dining Hall 

Norrt' Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Obscl'VI::r ls a member ofthe ~oda1~ Pf~. AU .reproduction rights .IJ'e reserved. ' 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Perry Matt Puglisi Karen Langley Ken Fowler Kate Antonacci Tom Dorwart 
Megan O'Neil Scene Viewpoint Liz Byrum 
Sarah Falvey Graphics Kelly MaJDonald 

Buy gold, but wear green 
The Shirt. Any student at Notre Dame knows what those two words refer to. 
The Shirt is a symbol of unity in the student body, pride in the University and most of all, what Notre Dame stands for'-helping people. 
Proceeds from the sale of The Shirt help benefit student groups and students in need of financial assistance. The money raised goes to a worthy cause. The Shirt's admirable underlying mission is not something to debate. 
But two football games into the 2005 season, another debate about The Shirt has surfaced. While this year's gold model has reportedly flown off .Jhe 
a O 
True, the past three years have also belonged to a differ­ent coach, a different era. But a new coach just means a new style of football -not a new style in the student sec­tion. 
For three straight years, green has become a formidable marker of the Notre Dame student body, and created a proud, unified atmosphere there is no reason to change. So Saturday, wear green to the football game. 
Then where does that leave The Shirt? With a failed attempt at changing colors, but with an unchanged worthy cause. It is important not to let the color of The Shirt distract from its purpose. Students 

the shelves at the Bookstore, significant userver should still purchase The Shirt 2005 to number of students have expressed more dis­demonstrate their commitment to the project's gust than enthusiasm -and are faced with a goals.
Editorial
decision to make about what color to wear to However, that commitment also implies a 
the first home game Saturday. 
Green or gold? 

At the season's first two away games, the student body has been divided into pockets of each. Despite many Notre Dame students traveling to both Pittsburgh and Michigan, it was difficult to scan the crowds and identify a strong, unified student front. 
On Saturday, there's no question that the student body must unite. It must show one color to the thousands of fans swarming campus and the millions of viewers watching the game nationally on NBC. 
That color is green. 
For the past three years, the Notre Dame student section has been identified with the color green. Whether it be football or basketball, green has been the Notre Dame sta­ple. It stands out, shows people where the student section is and creates an intimidation factor. One student body, one color, one Notre Dame. 
The green Shirts of the past three years gave students a common identity, and a visible advantage. Going to other college football stadiums, it's often hard to figure out where the student section is located. But at Notre Dame Stadium since 2002, there has never been a doubt that the northwest corner of the end zone belonged to Notre Dame students. 
There shouldn't be doubt now. 
widespread responsibility to make sure this year's divisiveness is never repeated. Though campus con­stituencies like the Athletic Department, the Bookstore and the Alumni Association all have their say each year's fin­ished Shirt, it is still largely a student-run process, headed by a Shirt president and designer selected from the student body. That means students are ultimately responsible for producing a Shirt design that will unite, not divide, their peers. 
But how to make sure that is the case? Shirt project lead­ers should start by loosening the veil of secrecy over the design -traditionally kept under wraps until its annual revelation on Blue & Gold Game weekend -by providing an outlet, such as a survey or Web site, for student feed­back about fundamentals like color and quote choice. 
There is no question that students want to wear The Shirt every year. As its primary purchasers, the student body at large deserves a voice in The Shirt's creation. 
These are just some of the things that those involved with The Shirt Project should consider so that the Notre Dame student body can be united once again. 
For now, though, students should wear green Saturday, and for the rest of the games this season. There are mil­lions of people out there looking for the student section. 
Let's make sure they find it -the green mass in the northwest corner of the end zone. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
What color are you wearing to the home football game Saturday? 
8ubmit aLetter 1 
"We must accept finite disappointment, but never lose infinite hope. " 
a. 
Other 

b. 
Blue 



to the Editor at I
c. Gold/Yellow 
Martin Luther Kin~, Jr. 
d. Green 
Civil rights activist 

www.ndsmcobserver.com it
*Poll appears courtesy of 
. li

www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 929 responses. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, September 16, 2005 page 15 
New pope, new coach, new era 
Thorn is a bu:t.z around campus. No, I'm not talking about this wonk's rn-oponing of our fallon favoritn, CJ's. The excite­mont around hero is li1r Charlie Weis and his 2-0 Fighting Irish, who will bn wnkomnd into Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow li1r the first time this season. As .those of you who don't live under a rock alrnady know, the Irish have dimbnd into tl1n Top 10 alter improssivn wins at both PitL">burgh and Mid1igan. 
Thorn are curn~ntly shirl'> being worn around campus that road, "New Pope, Nnw Coach, New Era." I find thi'> shirt fitting, bncauso things just seem much dillimmt with Wnis at the hnlm: our ollimsn looks crisp; our dnfensn can lim:n a punt: and wn can count on hav­ing tho right numbnr of players in the huddle. B1~st ofall. on Saturday nights our opponnnl'> am now tim ones ques­tioning wlwtlwr or not they need to fire thnir coach. Tlw Wds Era has certainly started ofl' witl1 a bang, and most of us feel that this sea">on could mark tl1n bnhrinning of"Heturn to Glory: For Heal This Tinw." 
llownvor, thorn an~ some among us who are not yet con­vinced. 'l'hl•y dte ESPN's talking heads who eonstantly rmnind us that the last guy hnre won his first eight gamns. 

Molly Acker 
Nobody Likes a Dumb Blonde 

(Ty Willingham's first team didn't score an offensive touch­down until its third game; Charlie Wei'>' team scored six touchdowns in il'> first seven possessions.) They say that it ha'> only bnen two games. (These two games came on the road against the No. 23 and No. 3 teams in tile country.) They tell us not to get ahead of ourselves and to keep our expeetations in check. 
We could listen to these naysayers, or we could remember what Coach Weis said after dismantling Pitt, "By halftime, our pla~ers were starting to realize they w1~re better tllan they thought they were. That's what I've been trying to tell them all along, a lot of this game is confidence." 
So why don't we put a little conlidence into our team as well? The statistics have already shown the Irish to be better tl1an anyone thought they were. In tile first half of tile Pitt game, Brady Quinn threw for more yards tllan he did in five entire games last year. Weis' first game on the Notre Dame sideline yielded 42 points, a total tl1at surpa">sed the output in 35 of Willingham's 37 games a'> coach. The team's win in Ann Arbor wa'> our first road victory over a top five team since Lou lloltz paced the same vi">itors' sideline in the Big House back in 1993. 
In fact, Weis' two road victories have earned him compar­isons to a guy by the name of Knutc Hockne, who is the only other coach to open hi'> tenure with two victories on enemy turf. While it might be a bit premature to sculpt a statue of Coach Weis to share the bench with Moose Krause out">ide the JACC, there is enough evidence to put our fitith in "Charlie and the Football Far:tory" and enjoy t.he ride. 
We can do our part to help ensuro a great homncoming lor our eonquering heroes by supporting thn tnam with rock­less abandon this weekend. 
This evening, go to the pep rally and cheer until you lose your voiee. At midnight go to the steps of' the Dome to see the drum circle. Tomorrow, put on The Shirt (even if' it dons look like one huge mustard stain) and rally around the team a'> it walks lrom the Basilica to tho Stadium. Haise a toast to the Fighting Irish at your tailgatn, and go see the band at Bond llall. Get into the stadium a little earlier, yell a little louder, and let Michigan Stat1~ know that they will bn spend­ing the afternoon in a very hostile environment. 
Finally, trust that Coaeh Weis will is f~tmiliar with the words of Knutn Hockne, who said, "We usn the same boys and the same plays on tile road a'i we do at home. Our exe­cution is expectnd to be the same. At home wn'rn thn lwsl'>, and I never liked tlw idna of' bning embarrassed in front of' our friends." 
Go Irish! 
Molly Acker is a senior at Saint Maryk She is a double major in communication studies and humanistir· studies. She can be reached at acke675R@saintmarys.l•du 
The views expressed in thb; mlumn are those llj the author and not necessarily those lljThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Show your spirit 
Saturday marks the beginning of' the knowledge of the game and overall unity. Notre Dame home football season and Wearing a green shirt doesn't afl'ect the tho qunstion on my mind is not how the first two but it does hurt the last. A sea Irish ofl'ense will deal with the zone blitz of gold is much more intimidating than but what shirt will tl1e students be wear­pockets of' green and gold throughout ing. If' you arn anything like me, and the stands. most Notrn Dame students are, then dis­Tomorrow afternoon Notre Dame appointed doesn't begin to describe how Stadium is going to be the loudest it's you fhel about this year's The Shirt. been in a long, long time. The student Whether your reason for not liking this body needs to contribute to the home­year's shirt is the new gold color, the non field advantage, and it all starts with taekle-footballnature of the script letter­what shirt you put on in the morning. ing or the pom-squadness of the spirit So tomorrow wear a "Play Like a quot11, chanens are that you're not going Champion Today" shirt, wear a "Nasty" to be wearing The Shirt tomorrow. shirt, a "Charlie's Army" shirt or, even if' 
However, I am not writing to, bash the you must, The Shirt. Just wear gold and eommittee who so brilliantly approved help Chuck Dubbs (Charlie Weis) lead his this year's design but to promote student troops to victory by making Notre Dame unity and in some ways The Shirt. Many Stadium one of the toughest places to students arc going to wear the green play in the nation. shirt from the last three years or some other grmm shirt. I beg you not to do Ricky Moreno this. Notre Dame has one of the greatest junior student bodies in college football Dillon Hall be1:ause of its ereativity in cheers, Sept. 15 
Ad gives proper tnessage 
Allow me to frame this new Notre events and subsequent after-parties (it Damn eommnrcial and corresponding was the only weekend of its sort during diversity issue from another pnrspective. the year), designed as a means of mask­In IJw Snpt. 15 front pagn article in The ing the University's homogeneity. Even Observer, "Ad sparks debate at meeting," worse, was the phone call from the "fel­Sarah l.iu is quoted as asking, in regards low Asian" who spoke with me, trying to to the new "Candle" ad for Notre Dame, entice me to attend Notre Dame on the "Where an~ the minorities? They are back of "diversity." nowhern to bn found in this commer­Certainly this cannot be much better dal," arguing for the eommerdal to be than an ad which provides the proper pulled. message that it should: that the people of 
I agree entirely and believe that Notre Dame really are in fact, mostly inernasnd diversity would indeed Caucasian and of the Catholic faith. But incrnase dialogue within the elassroom it also infers (correctly) that the student and provide proper preparation for the body is made up of good people, the rnal world. I am atheist, Asian and liber­great majority of whom are kind and tol­al, and as such am not in the majority, erant. I believe that the prospective eov­yet I wonder if the lack of minorities etcd minority student should know within the advertisement is indeed, such exactly what they are getting into, and as a bad thing. such, choose to attend tllis University 
I still rmnember when I was still a high through his or her own unbiased deci­sdwol snnior, of attending that prepos­sion. terous minority student weekend when Notre Dame dedded to shamelessly Sean Huang reach out to unaware prospectives with senior their own group of minority hosts, after~ St. Edward's Hall wards being shown a cultural bonanza of Sept. 15 
Support smoking ban 
I am responding to the Viewpoint lished to hinder our freedom. column from Sept. 13, "The New Lastly, I wish to commnnt on the Bigotry" by Ian Ronderos. I attended criticisms that have been directed at the public hearing for the smoking Gina Firth, the director of' the Office ban on Sept. 6, and I listened to of Alcohol and Drug Education every supporting and opposing argu­(OADE). I don't understand how Gina ment presented that evening. As an could be condemned in the least for aspiring lawyer, I concentrated as pr6moting a eleaner and hcalthim hard as possible to see whether I St. Joseph County. I, for one, am could make a ease for either side; grateful that she sent out the e-mail 
I concluded that I could not, to the student body regarding the because this is how I see it: the fact public hearing. She provided all of us is that smoking has a ripple effect. with the opportunity to make a dif­No, not everyone who walks into a ference, to let the powers that be smoking environment comes out with hear what we have to say. I believe cancer or the like. But one has to that Gina's e-mail demonstrated how consider the fact that some unfortu­aetive the OADE is for the students; nate individuals indeed do come out it makes their presence known and sick. And what about those who more real. acquire a disease and have never I ask you all to consider, in Gina smoked in their entire life? Firth's position as the director of the 
As for the notion that the ban is OADE, how could she not promote treading on our freedom, please con­the supporting of the ban? sider the liberty of being able to breathe clean air. Doesn't every per­Sheremy Cabrera son have this right, this freedom? sophomore This ban serves to protect the com­Cavanaugh Hall mon good; it was by no means estab-Sept. 14 
The power of prayer 
I write to applaud those senators who me, and though thero arn obviously chose to admonish Sarah Liu for writ­more pressing crises in the world, all ing negatively on the Notre Dame tele­should recognize that God has the vision advertisement. I was frankly power, and has the desirn, to answer quite embarrassed that our student any prayers wo may have-no matter government would authorize such a let­how trivial. ter on its behalf', and I think that there I hope in the future that our student are a few important points that Liu took government will be less quick to pub­for granted. licly criticize the University and morn 
Now, I believe that Liu had good deliberate in understanding the mes­intentions, but being a non-Catholic she sage it is trying to eonvey. If our student fails to recognize tile power of prayer in government truly rnpresented Notrn the Catholic faith that so many of us Dame, I think we'd find that letters it hold so dear. Christ tells us in the endorses would not send falsP mes­Gospel of Luke that what we seek we sages about the Catholic faith, and shall find, and if we knock, the door will would not be sent by those misguided be opened. Clearly we cannot take this about the Catholic Chureh's teachings. teaching literally, but it shows the Hather, it would embrace the idea of the power that prayer can have in our Catholic spirit which distin!,,'Uishes this lives-Catholic or not. It seems a bit great University, and I believe manifests naive and a little ignorant of the itself in the advertisement. Catholic faith for Liu to say that prospective students should "pray for Christian Hoeffel something more important than that." junior Personally, being accepted to Notre St. ~:Jward's Hall Dame was something very important to Sept. 15 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 16 
Friday, September 16, 2005 
CD REVIEWS 

McCartney creates 'chaos' with latest effort 

Sir Paul McCartney released his 20th solo album, "Chaos & Creation In The Backyard" on Sept. 13. He continues to mold his sound to fit the 21st century. 
Chapm_an' s latest album_ supports her strong credentials 
voice somehow manages to simultaneous­ly haunt and soothe the listener. Chapman is the epitome of elegance in simplicity -her tracks consist mainly of her pure, melancholic voice at its soulful finest with some tasteful guitar accompa­niment. 
Prior to listening to the album, the lis­tener could offer the same challenge to Chapman that she did on a previous hit single. Give me one reason to stay here, Tracy, and I'll turn right back around. On "Where You Live," Tracy Chapman gives the listener 11 quality reasons to stay, providing more than sufficient rationale to stick around. 
The poignant genius behind "Where You Live" starts off strong with "Change," a social self-reflection that manages to 
make its point without holier­than-thou conde­scension. 
One of Tracy Chapman's best qualities is that she approaches the subject of social commen­tary with the appropriate gravi­ty of the situation. Unlike rappers who glorify the violence and misogyny of the rough neighbor­"The ghost of Columbus haunts this world/ 'Cause you're still conquering America/ The meek won't survive/ Or inherit the earth/ 'Cause you're still con­quering America." 
Songs such as "Talk To You" and "Love's Proof' are tragic love ballads pro­vidl:) ideal listening fodder for the recently broken-up or heartbroken among us. 
In fact, if one critical comment were to be made about the entire album, it would be to te'll Tracy to lighten up a little, and maybe try to create an upbeat song or two. However, the overall quality and consistent excellence of "Where You Live" proves that Tracy is still the proverbial Chap-Man. 
studio work ­mostly placing
Chaos & Creation in 
some chaos into the sometimes
the Backyard 

formulaic .McCartney pop
Paul McCartney 
standards enables "Chaos & 
Creation In The Backyard" to be the closest thing 
Capitol 
McCartney has had to a master­piece since 1996's 
••••. 

Recommended tracks: 'English Tea,' 'Promise to You 
"Tug Of War." The most com­

Girl,"How Kind ofYou' and 'Too Much Rain' 
pelling track lyri­

cally is "At the Mercy," where McCartney delves into his own dark thoughts and thankfully leaves the non sequiturs on the studio floor. It's a song that could have been a depressing and muddled inter­lude, but Godrich and McCartney rein in its chorus, keeping the track sparse and focused -literally taking a sad song and making it better. 
The hook-laden melodies of "English Tea," which sounds like it should be in Disney's "Fantasia" with its whimsical gaiety and friendly vocals, has McCartney making observations about his mother country that are sweetly unpretentious. Yes, it's a silly and catchy tune, but it also gives the esoteric (at least in McCartney standards) album a nice breather from the otherwise contemplative pop songs on the record. The song leads into the album's stand-out track of "Promise to You Girl," which balances indelible har­monies, soaring guitars that bounce of a 

Photo courtesy of berm.co.nz Tracy Chapman continues her trend of strong lyrics and soulful melodies in her new album, "Where You Live." It is her first studio release since 2002. 
hoods where they grew up, Chapman maintains a somber tone as she sings about the abuses of women on "3,000 Miles." She also displays her considerable poetic talent with such lyrics as, "Good girls walk fast/ In groups of three/ Fast girls walk slow/ On side streets/ Sometimes girls who walk alone/ Aren't found for days or weeks." 
Despite her understated style, Chapman isn't afraid to wax political. It would be an error to mistake her soothing tone for passive substance, as she sings with a voice that is both powerful and moving. "America," a compelling song about minority abuse throughout American his­tory, is a profound soapbox sermon on the history of racial injustice in this country and on the continued need for change. Her powerful words stand by themselves: 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
jazz piano riff, and achingly personal lyrics. 
"Chaos & Creation In The Backyard" is reminiscent of Brian Wilson's 2004 album "Smile" in that it balances classic pop vocal style with modern studio wizardry that give the recordings a simple gloss and eclectic audio structure. As McCartney sang in "When I'm 64" -"I could be handy/ mending a fuse/ when your lights have gone." 
On his new studio album, Sir Paul pro­vides old and new fans alike with a refreshing take on life and love that proves that that rocker can still blend melodies with the best of them. With his raucous performance at Live 8 this sum­mer, this new album and his sold-out upcoming tour, old man McCartney is finding new ways to create a little chaos in the 21st century. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 
By BOB COSTA Scene Critic 

As an ironic young superstar with the Beatles in the 1960s, Paul McCartney penned a breezy pop tune called "When I'm 64," where he sang that he'd proba­bly be "Doing the garden/ Digging the weeds" once he became an old man. Now in 2005, at the age of 63, McCartney seems to be doing just that -yet his pre­dictions were a bit ofT, since he's not rum­maging around a grassy patio back in Liverpool but redefining his musical career with a vital new studio album enti­tled "Chaos & Creation In The Backyard." 
The album, which sprinkles new seeds of melodic genius in with his classic style, showcases McCartney sticking to the premise of an elder statesman tending to his own cerebral garden. He evokes touches of "The White Album" on tracks like the upbeat and piano-driven single "Fine Line" while also creates a more organic and atmospheric acoustic ele­ment not heard on many previous efforts with the heartfelt songs "Jenny Wren" and "Anyway." 
"Chaos & Creation In The Backyard" is the 20th release in a long and storied solo career that began with "McCartney" in 1970. His career has since seen the 
ByTAEANDREWS 
Scene Critic 

While she may possess more than a passing resemblance to the pre-hiatus Ricky Williams, Tracy Chapman has proven herself to be a much more reliable veteran in her respective industry. After a three-year interval since the release of her last album, "Let It Rain," the dread­locked diva continues to impress with her modest substance. 
Simply put, Tracy Chapman makes good music. Listening to this album is a · welcome relief from the crappy pop songs that have accumulated over the past few years. Her unique style is what makes her music so powerful -her piercingly clear 

Recommended tracks: 'Change,''3000 Miles,''Love's Proof 'Talk to You' and 'America' 
famed performer and songwriter win 
numerous Grammy awards, while also 
earning the ire of critics and some fans 
for being too cheesy and "un-Beatles like" 
at times, from duets with Michael 
Jackson to the bloated sugary confections 
on his 80s singles. The last time Paul 
McCartney had a Top 10 hit was during 
Father Edward "Monk" Malloy's first 
year as president of Notre Dame back in 
1987. Even though he's not as relevant to 
the Top 40 crowd any more, McCartney 
doesn't have an agenda on this new 
album to be a "hit," but seemingly only to 
be himself-which wasn't always true 
on recent work like "Run, Devil, Run," 
which was too forceful in its "hey, I can 
still rock" buzz and power chords. 
McCartney worked with Radiohead pro­ducer Nigel Godrich on "Chaos & Creation In The Backyard," the same pro­ducer who sculpted Radiohead's land­mark "OK Computer" album with Thorn Yorke -and it shows. Godrich's finger­prints are all over the record, giving McCartney's signature vocals a deeper -resonance than the one seen on his clut­tered band endeavor "Driving Rain" back in 2001. Godrich also gives the record an interesting mix of underlying instru­ments, most notably prickly string flushes that create an eerie cadence on "Riding to Vanity Fair." Although he is no George Martin, Godrich's 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, September 16, 2005 
page 17 
CD REVIEW 
Focus on storytelling for Mann 
BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 

Photo courtesy of highroadtouring.com Aimee Mann has released her newest album, "The Forgotten Arm," on her own record label, Superego Records. It tells the dramatic story of John and Caroline. 

By MOLLY GRIFFIN A"istant Scene Editor 
Boxing tnnds to bn tlw inspiration for mnn making movins, as films likn "Haging Bull." "Hor.ky" and "Cindnrella Man" rnvnal. It takos an ieonoelast likn singPr Airntw Mann to takn thn thor­oughly maseulinn sport of boxing and transform it not only into a meditation on low•. addit'tion and rndmnption but also into sonwthing as unusual as a ronrr·pt album that intnrrelatns its 12 songs to ttdl a story. 
Tlw linnr notns for "Thn Forgottnn Arm" art~ snt up so that thn lyrirs for 
Pach song arn prn­The Forgotten Arm sneret about a sPnl.nd as a rhap­lovnd one. tnr in a hook, and Aimee Mann Mann produced this ~~omparison is 
"The Forgottfln actually quito apt. Arm" on her own Mann's album has record label, lllOr!' in t~OIIllllOil Superego Hecords, with a novo! than which she founded it dons with many in response to hav­
o l h n r r e ~~or d s on ing clashes with a tlw marknt. It rna­recording company turns two main in the past over rharacters, John how they promoted and Caroline, and her album. She has thn songs arn snt developed a grass­up to give thn roots approach to impression of an marketing and introduction, con­gaining fans, and flict and finally a has thus far been 
rt'solution. Few artists could pull ofT sudr an ambitious project, but the litnrary and rtd'leetivo nature of Mann's lyrics allow her to pull off the concept with nasn. 
Tlw idna of a eoneept album snnms to bn gaining favor among artists due to the massive problem of illngal downloading. By intnrrelating all of thn songs on an album, the artist makns it morn appealing and neens­sary to buy thn wholn item rather than just having onn stand-out song that can hn easily downloaded. 
"llnar John," a blues-tinged ballad, optms tlw album ami sets up the rela­tionship hntwnpn .John, a boxer, and later a Vintnarn vnt and drug addiet, and Carolirw. a small town girl longing to gnt away from homn. 
"Going Through thn Motions" and "I .Just Can't Get My llnad Around It" are two songs that show thn cracks that enwrgn in tho rnlationship due to .John's drug use. 
Songs like "Little Bombs" and "I Was Thinking I Could Clean Up for Christmas" reveal the depths to which thn relationship has sunk, but the final song on thn album, "Beautiful" reveals the sliver of hopn that remains in spite of it all. 
While there really aren't any "skip­pablo" songs on "The Forgotten Arm," there are several stand-out traeks. "Goodbye Caroline" an up-tempo song whose melody covers its melancholy lyrics about leaving. The pounding drum and piano beat {Jf' "Video" builds to its soaring chorus. "Little Bombs" 11loquently expresses how liffl rarely falls apart in one grand event, but is instnad '..... lnss a dnlugn than a drought." The piano and Mann's soar­ing voice drives "That's Ilow I Knew This Story Would Break My Heart," a beautiful song about )p,arning a 
very successful. 
Mann's eareer has followed an interesting path to success. She began with stints in a variety of bands, including the '80s band, 'Til Tuesday, who had a hit with the song "Voices Carry." Her music was the inspiration behind the P.T. Anderson l'ilm, "Magnolia." In the movie, characters speak her lyries as lines. She also had a small part in "The Big Lnbowski" as a German nihilist. 
Overall, "The Forgotten Arm" is a meditation on a dark subject, but in Mann's hands, it becomes pensive and beautiful while still musically enter­taining. 
The album gets better upon subse­quent listenings, and, while eaeh song is good individually, they benefit from being listened to as a whole. 
Thanks to Mann's willingness to take the risk of making a concept album and her willingness to spend as much time making well-crafted songs, "The Forgotten Arm" is an almost flawless effort. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Pettitte throws getn to lead Astros to w-in over Marlins 
page 18 The Observer + ClASSIFIEDS Friday, September 16, 2005 

Nationals beat Mets the major leagues during that  
span. · It came a night after his closein extras; Brewers friend Roger Clemens, pitchingwin big over D-backs on the day his mother died, beat the Marlins. That ended a three­ 
game losing streak for theAssociated Press Astros, including the first two  
HOUSTON -Andy Pettitte games against the Marlins.  
allowed one run over eight Florida rookie Jason Vargas  
innings to win his sixth straight (5-4) went five innings and lost  
start, a 4-1 victory over the his third straight decision over  
Florida Marlins on Thursday four starts. He gave up four hits,  
...  night that put the Houston including the two homers, with  
Astros back in the NL wild-card four strikeouts and two walks.  
lead where they were when the  
series started. Nationals 6, Mets 5  
The Astros (78-68) took a half­Preston Wilson laughed as the  
game lead over Florida and rookies on the Washington  
Philadelphia, which lost to Nationals, enduring one of base­ 
Atlanta, in the wild-card race. ball's traditional hazing rituals,  
Houston and Florida split their . donned women's dresses before  
four-game series, the last games leaving Shea Stadium.  
against each other this season. The Nationals know they  
Florida, which went 6-5 on its aren't always baseball's prettiest  
road trip, begins a three-game team, and sight of grown men in  
series at home Friday against miniskirts, halter tops and  
the Phillies. Houston remains humiliating hemlines helped  
home to play Milwaukee. drive that point home.  
Pettitte (16-9) scattered five Still, there's nothing unsightly AP 
hits and struck out five. Aside about the way Washington has  
New York Mets pitcher Shingo Takatsu delivers against the Washington Nationals in the sixthfrom Miguel Cabrera's 32nd fashioned itself into a playoff inning in New York Thursday. The Nationals beat the Mets 6-5. 
homer leading off the seventh, contender.  
the left-bander allowed five Vmny Castilla drove in the go­ 
baserunners, three of whom ahead run with two outs in the  Brewers 14, Diamondbacks 2  Shawn Estes (7-8) gave up  half-game ahead of Houston.  
were erased by double-play 1Oth inning after Braden Looper  Torno Ohka pitched seven  seven runs on six hits and three  Jorge Sosa (12-3) allowed two  
grounders. and the Mets' sloppy defense  strong innings, Bill Hall had a  walks in 2 2-3 innings.  runs and seven hits in 5 2/3  
Brad Lidge struck out the side blew a ninth-inning lead, and  career-high five hits and Chad  After J .J. Hardy doubled with  innings for the Braves and Adam  
in the ninth for his 37th save in the Nationals beat New York.  Moeller drove in four runs to  one out in the first, Lee gave  LaRoche had a solo homer.  
40 chances. Thursday to complete a three­ lead the Milwaukee Brewers to a  Milwaukee a 2-0 lead when he  Jones hit a three-run homer in  
After Brad Ausmus led off the game sweep.  rout of the Arizona  drove the first pitch he saw into  the third inning and a two-run  
fifth with his third home run, "People outside of here don't  Diamondbacks on Thursday.  the stands in right-center.  shot in the seventh for his 32nd  
Pettitte followed think we can do  Jeff Cirillo went 3-for-4 with  The Brewers made it 9-0 with  career multihomer game.  
with a deep fly ball it," Castilla said. of his own -that "This might be the "We're still here."  two walks and three RBis, including a two-run homer  seven runs in the third, started by Brady Clark's leadoff double  Kyle Farnsworth got the last four outs for his seventh save  
was caught by The Nationals,one we needed to putcenter fielder Juan who began the day us over the top. ,Pierre well short three games  against reliever Jason Bulger in the sixth inning to make it 14-0. Carlos Lee also had a two-run  -the first of his two hits in the inning. Clark scored on Lyle Overbay's single, and Corey Hart  since joining the Braves on July 31. He retired Chase Utley on a grounder to first to leave run­ 
of the wall. Craig behind Florida  shot and Ohka drove in two runs  had a bases-loaded groundout.  ners at second and third in the  
Biggio then hit his Frank Robinson and Philadelphia  to help the Brewers win for the  Estes was removed after walk­ eighth, but gave up a solo homer  
21st homer into in the wild-cardNationals manager the left-field race, swept a road  seventh time in 10 games. Milwaukee had 19 hits and tied  ing Cirillo to load the bases again.  to Ryan Howard, his 18th, in the ninth.  
stands near where series for the sec­ a season high with its 14 runs.  Bobby Abreu hit a two-run  
Ausmus' ball had landed for a 3­ond time in a month. They open  Ohka (11-8), acquired from  Braves 6, Phillies 4  homer for Philadelphia, which  
0 lead. a three-game set at NL West  Washington on June 10 in a  Chipper Jones hit two homers  plays 12 of its final 15 games on  
An inning later, Florida inten­leader San Diego on Friday.  trade for infielder Junior Spivey,  and tied his career-high with  the road. The Phillies start a  
tionally walked Ausmus with The Nationals have played 57  allowed two runs on four hits  five RBis, helping the Atlanta  three-game series in Florida on  
two outs and a runner on to get one-run games, the most in the  and a walk. He struck out seven  Braves avert a four-game sweep  Friday night and play three  
Pettitte to the plate. He hit majors, and this was only the  and improved to 4-1 in his last  with a victory over the  games in Atlanta next week.  
another fly to center, shaking his second time since the All-Star  seven starts.  Philadelphia Phillies on  Brett Myers (12-8) allowed  
arms in frustration as he jogged break they've put together a  Ohka had a perfect game until  Thursday night.  four runs and five hits in six  
toward first base. winning streak of longer than  rookie Conor Jackson singled  The NL East-leading Braves  innings. It was the third straight  
Still, Pettitte did what he does two games.  with two out in the fifth inning.  came in with a five-game lead  subpar outing for Myers, who  
best with another impressive "This might be the one we  The Diamondbacks scored their  over the Phillies and Florida  was outstanding early in the  
pitching performance. He is 13-3 needed to put us over the top  runs in the sixth on Chad Tracy's  Marlins. Philadelphia and  season. He was o-·2 and the  
with a 1.50 ERA since June 20 -before this thing is over," man­ RBI triple and Luis Gonzalez's  Florida were tied for first place  Phillies lost all three of his starts  
the most wins and best ERA in ager Frank Robinson said.  sacrifice fly.  in the NL wild-card standings, a  during this 10-game homestand.  

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early and Save Lowest Prices Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY 1117 Highest Commission Best Travel Perks www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800­426-7710 
WANTED 
Local family looking for part-time babysitter for two toddlers. Must love children! References required. EXPERIENCE A MUST. Transportation necessary. Call (574) 247-9213. 
$15/hr. babysitter for Oct. 15. 9 yr old girl from 12:30-6 in your dorm. 760 803-1153 
Office Help Needed by TC Apts. $7/hr. Call272-4135. 
Enjoy babies& toddlers? 1st 
Unitarian Church needs a nursery noon. $10/hr. Must have references. Close to ND. Call Mary Beth 288­9167. 

FoR SALE 
Queen pillow1op mattress set. New with warranty. $155. Can deliver. 574-231-4522. 
ND FANS For Sale: Cabin 25 mi. from ND. Wooded gated community with lake access. 3 BD 2BA loft, screened porch, FP, $295,000. Call 619-606-8815. 
CLAY TOWNSHIP home. $65,000. Land contract. Partially furnished 2­3 bdrm home, basement, garage, fenced yard. Near Clay schools, owner financing & home improve­ment allowance. Includes 1 year home warranty. Call574-250-8552. 
Oakhill condo. 4bd,3bth,fin.basemt. ND 5 min. walk. Chris 574-210­4485. 
1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli­ances.$69,000. Call Kim Kollar 574­280-8160. 
AKC Chinese Shar-Pei pups.$600. For more info,574-257-3942 
Single/married faculty/staff. Own a lovely home near ND for less than you pay for rent. Believe it/ Call Dale (574) 243-9547 Coldwell Banker. 
Great Sunnymede Area Home for Sale. Details online:timshousesale.blogspot.com 
Excellent condition 1993 Nissan Pathfinder,4x4, red. Price nego­liable. 271-8829. 
Brand new full mattress & box. Still inplastic. $120. Can deliver. 574­876-4474. 
NO/Leeper Park area. Immediate possession. Great condition! 4 BR, 2 BA $134,500.MLS 203577. ReMax 100, Barb Foster, 968-4208 or 255-5858 
Condo on the river. Beautiful view, 1 000 sq ft. Close to ND. Call574-251-0459. $86,500. Open house 2-5 Sun. 
FoR RENT 
Bed & Breakfast lodging wiND Alumni family for football weekends. 574-243-2628. 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcoun­trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non­smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
Available: ND-MSU weekend, nice 2-br apt. 5 mins from ND. Call JD 269-782-5181 or 574-208­1038. 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­BORHOODS andersonNDrentals.com 
1-bdrm apt. Quiet historic neighbor­hood. 1 mi. to ND. $575/mo. Call 283-0325 
Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND game weekends. 7732182203 Bed & Blast ND games. 3 blocks from campus. Free parking. 289­3397 
Furnished room w/everything except food. 3 blocks to ND. $450. 289-3397 
TICKETS 
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$: www.victorytickets.com 
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT­BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 
WANTED: 4-6 MSU GAs together, Dave 248-760-1767 
BUY SELL OR TRADE ND FOOT­BALL TICKETS. TOP $$ PAID. A.M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
PLEASE HELP!!! Buying season tix GAs only or any game GAs. Call Mark 277-1659. 
Need USC tickets. Can trade 2 
Tenn tix or buy. Call Bill @856-968­
4565/856-404-1970 
Wanted: 2 season tix & parking 
pass or 2 for any home game. 574­
276-8507 
Need 4 tix to any football game. Call Jack 574-674-6593. 
PERSONAL 
• 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
not go it alone. If you or someone 
you love needs confidential support ·or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. 
Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more 
information, see our bi-weekly ad in 
THE OBSERVER. 
Welcome back "Daddy Scott'' and 
"I'm Sorry Joe"! 
Can we make out? 
Hey Red Sox Nation, welcome to 
1.5 with a three~game series to go. Don't count your chickens yet. 
caregiver on Sundays from 10:15­

Friday, September 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Royals keep White Sox fron1 running aw-ay w-ith Central 

Cleveland closing gap as Chicago lead slims to just 4 1/2 games 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -John Buck hit a two-run double to key four-run seventh inning, and the Hoyals beat the White Sox 7-5 on Thursday to cut Chicago's lead in the AL Central to 4 1/2 games. 
Chicago's second straight loss to Kansas City, the team with the worst record in the majors, has given idle Cleveland a sliver of hope for catching the Whitn Sox for the division crown. The White Sox's magic number to clinch the Central is 13 with 17 games left. 
Ambiorix Burgos (2-5) got the victory in relief of starter Zack Greinke, going 1 11:~ innings and giving up two runs. 
Mark Buehrle (15-8) went (J 1/3 innings for thH White Sox and was charged with four runs on nine hits, with two walks and three strikeouts. I lis earner record fell to 12-6 against the Royals, who started the season losing 10 in a row to Chicago but won five of their last eight. 
Chip Ambres opened the Kansas City seventh with his second double and then with one out, Emil Brown chased Buehrle with an HBI single that put the Hoyals on top 3-2. 
Angel Berroa singled ol'l' reliever Luis Vizcaino ahead of Buck's double -the Hoyals' season-high eighth of the day. A walk and an inl'ield single loaded the bases and Vizcaino walked in the sixth run. 

Tadahito Iguchi's pinch three­run double off Andrew Sisco sliced the Hoyals lead to 6-5 in the eighth, but Berroa added an HBI single in the eighth on a cool. rainy day which drew a erowd that seemed much small­er than the announced paid attendance of 9,258. 
Mike MacDougal got the linal four outs for his 19th save in 22 chances. 
Jermaine Dye hit a solo home run in the second inning and Carl Everett had an HBI single for a 2-0 Chicago lead. The Hoyals tied it the third on Brown's HBI double and a sacri­lice lly by Berro<t. 
Athletics 6, Red Sox 2 
Curt Schilling had a setback as the pennant race is heating up. Joe Blanton is hitting his stride. 
Both of them have some work to do to get there. 
Blanton gave Oakland anoth­nr strong outing, holding Boston to two runs over 6 1/3 innings Thursday night and the Athletics took advantage of Schilling's early troubles to beat the Hed Sox and tighten two pennant races at one time. 
"If we don't play well, we're not going to get to the playoffs and we won't play deep into October," Hed Sox center lielder Johnny Damon said. "It's ours to lose. There's a lot of teams fighting for spots." 
One of them is Oakland. which pulled into a tie for first in the AL West with Los Angeles -an 8-6 loser to Detroit. East­leading Boston fell 1 1/2 games in front of the Yankees, who beat the Tampa Bay Devil Hays ; New York had not been that close since Aug. 29. 
"We're still on top," said Hed Sox designated hitter David Ortiz, who had his major l1~ague-leading 131 st HBI with a sanril'ice lly in the sixth. "The problem is when you go under." 
Rangers 4, Mariners 3 
Although tho Tnxas Hangers faded from playoff contention after the All-Star break, that hasn't slowed down Michael Young. 
The Hangers' shortstop readwd 200 hits for the third straight season and c;ary Matthews Jr. had a tiebrnaking sacrilke lly t.o lead Texas over the Seattle Mariners Thursday night. 
Young's HBI single in the third inning made him tlw 22ml play­er in major league history with thnw consecutive 200-hit sea­sons. 
The last to accomplish tlw feat was Seattle's khiro s·uzuki, who is trying to stretch his run to live straight years. 
Young went 1-for-4 and leads the AL with a .32H batting aver­age. 
Yankees 9, Devil Rays 5 
With ground to mah up in thnir quest for another AL East title, the New York Yankees refused to lose. 
Alex Hodrigunz hit his 42nd home run and Hobinson Cano erased a four-run deficit with a grand slam Thursday night, helping Aaron Small and the seven-time dnl'ending division winners rally to beat the Tampa Bay Devil Hays . 
"The team is playing with a lot of urgency right now. Wn realize how important each game is, and we're taking this as our playoll'," Hodriguez said. 

CHURCH OF THE HOLY TRINITY EPISCOPAL WELCOME STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF Sunday Schedule 8:00a.m. Holy Eucharist (Rite Ill 10:00 a.m. Holy Eucharist with hymn• (Rite II) ' Address 915 N. Olive Streot South Bend, lndJunn (lo\'Rh•d two hlocks south or I.lncolnwYy West, South 8t1nd, ut the intersection of Olive& Pra•tl Need a ride'? Click here: www.holytrinitysouthbcnd.org  
'I nr ~~tmlfke:tt'·•PuB.:) Before, During and After the Game 2046 South Bend Ave. 272-1766 Across from Martin's Plaza Open for Lunch Thurs-Fri-Sat Park and Walk to the Game or Watch the Game on Our 14 Screens!  


page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 16, 2005 
ND WOMEN'S ROWING 

Rowers getting anxious to kick off competition 
off the water, too." It's a chance to get better. . rowing is to compete. "There is an understood feelingBy TOM DORWART Sunday the Irish will face rivals "Everyone's already really dedi­"Just be on the water," she said. that the team has the potential for 
Sports Writer 

Michigan and Michigan State in cated even though our core sea­Sunday's regatta will likely great things this year," Jefson Ann Arbor, Mich. After weeks of son isn't until the spring," sopho­include three 3,000-meter races, said. "I know I'm excited. The 
They've practiced together, practice, they're ready to face more rower Erica Castro-Larsen which should last about 12 min­team is off to a great start this studied together and even eaten some real competition. said. utes each, with three equal boats. fall." dinner together. Finally, the two­"Looking at the bigger picture, Their focus is on conditioning Rather than separating the row­Castro-Larsen agreed with her time defending Big East champion we want to set a standard of and preparing for the spring. ers into the A, B and C boats as senior teammate. women's rowing team gets to race excellence this fall that we will "Lately, we've been working on usual, Notre Dame will spread out ''I'm really excited for the sea­together. continue into the spring," said technique and just building up the rowing, allowing the experi­son," she said. "We've jumped 
"From Sunday team dinner at Jefson, who was a second varsity our strength," Castro-Larsen said. enced rowers and some of the into it really strong." South Dining Hall to study breaks eight boat rower from last season. "You don't really want to hit your newcomers to mix. Simply put, the Irish have at the student center, the team "We are well on our way to peak now [when the main season The Irish will race in three already jumped. The rest of the has a great sense of unity," senior achieving this goal." is in the spring]. Practice has been other regattas later this fall, with fall, they'll stay on the water rower Pamela Jefson said, For Jefson and her teammates, going well. This fall, we want to their ultimate goal in the back of working for another spring. according to und.eom. "Not only this Sunday's fall season regatta is get stronger." their minds -the spring NCAAs. are we improving on the water, anything but an off-season, infor­Castro-Larsen recognizes the They'll push themselves that Contact Tom Dorwart at but there is great team chemistry mal pushover. best way to improve the team's much harder. tdorwart@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles set to participate in the Catholic Chan1pionships 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
The Belles look at today's National Catholic Cross Country Championships at the Burke Memorial Golf Course on the campus of Notre Dame as a race with little impact on the overall success of the season, Saint Mary's coach Jackie Bauters said Thursday. 
Bauters said that her team hopes to run strong, but views the meet as a fun experience rather than a crucial competition. 

"This is a real fun race for us, because it has such higher com­petition [than the other meets on the Belles' schedule]," Bauters said. "It's kind of like a home meet for us in a lot of ways -we have a lot of families come out for it. We look for that [tough] com­petition, but we don't stress it." 
The meet will feature teams in two categories -Division I and the College Division. Saint Mary's, a Division-III in regular NCAA competition, will participate in the College Division. 
Bauters said that the multi-diyi­sion field is good competition for the team, but also has its draw­backs. 
"They've restricted the number you can enter to 15, when we usually carry 24 runners," she said. 
"And historically, we don't have our best times on this course because we are just so much fur­ther in the pack because it's so crowded." 
Despite the problems, though, several Belles have an opportuni­ty to make an impact in the race. 
Junior Sara Otto led the team in last week's Aquinas College Invitational, and should once again be one of the Belles' top finishers, Bauters said. 
"Sara had a tremendous race . . . for the beginning of the sea­son," she said. "She, along with a couple of our upperclassmen, will have a great season." 
Hopes are also high for sopho­more Elizabeth Johnson, a sopho­more who joined the team only this season. 
Johnson was fifth among the Belles in the Aquinas meet with a time of 21:25, just 1:09 oft' Otto's team-leading 20:16. 
Saint Mary's will be the only team in the MIAA competing, and that has Bauters less concerned about the outcome of the race than with league meets. 
"It's not something I look for as a true indication as a team," she said: "Last week was a really big meet for us because we had MIAA competition in the meet and we did really well." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 


"Catholics, Concubines, and the Constitution: 19th-Century Battles over Church and State" 
Linda Przyhyszewski 
AJ:rociate Pr~fossor {~('History 
"CatholicJ, Concubines, and the Constitution: 19th­Century Brtttles over Church and Sttlte. "with Linda Przybyszewski, associate professor of history. \X'hile 21st-cenrury Americans have Gxperienced their share of arguments over church-stare issues, Americans living during rhe 19th century fought even more passionately over the proper role of religion in public life. Two of the most dramatic battle ·-..-·one over Mormon polygamy and rhe ocher over Bible reading in the schools--raised essential questions abom the Republics constirutional order. Przybyszewski, a historian specializing in legal history ·and Constitutional interpretation, will examine these compelling issues. 
Fall 2005 Schedule 

Exptlience ;m intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most tngaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of our times. 
~~~ 9/17-Mkhigan State
~­
Linda Przybyszewski, A.1socirtte Prtift~•J·or ofHiitory ''Catholics, Concubines. Jnd the Constitution: 19rh-Cenmry Bartles over Church and Stare" 
10/15-USC 
Thomas Slaughter, Andrew V. Tackes Pr~femw ofHistory
'"E I . I . J (''! 1 '' 
..,xp onng ..ewts anu _, arK 
10/22-B\1J James M&nna, RezJ. ftinumd I!ji,~yce, CS: C, Pn!fi'Ssor of Anthropofoe;y 
"Caring t~·;r Babies, Caring for Partnrs: What Human lnl~uus Really Need and Why" 
11/5-Tennessee Julia Braungart~Rieker, Pn~(eJwr ofPrychology, Associate Dean ofArts und Letters 
''Understanding Personalitv and Emotional Developmenr i~; Babks and Children'' 
11!12-Navy R.. Scott Appleby, Profi:ssor ofHistory. john l'vJ. Regan .f;: Director rif'theJaan B. Kirn· !nstitutejrn· Intenvtianal Peace Studies Lawrence Cunningham, John A. O'Brien Professor ~{Theology Rev. Richard McBrien~ Crowlt:y-.O'Brien Profi~ssor ~/Theolo!!J. "A Change at the Top: Pope Benedict x'VI" 
11119-Syracuse Maria Tomasula, Michael P Grttce Associate Professor ofArt, Art History and Design 
''Vast: The Art of Maria Tomasula'' (Snite Museum ofArt) 
3-112 hours before kickofT ar the auditorium in rhe Hesburgh Center for lmernational Smdks (unless ocherwisc noted).
For more inf()rmation, visit http://saturd.'lyscholar.nd.cdu 
For more inh)rmarion. visit http://satunlayscholar.nd.edu ~UNIVERSITY OF 
I 

WNOTREDAME 
Friday, September 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Zahtn hopes to upset favored Carroll in sho-wdo-wn 
By JACK THORNTON Spons Writer 
When covering Monday Night Football, lngendary broadeastnr AI Mkhanls likes to say that the first game or naeh season dons­n 't rnally matter. 
Zahm team captain Pat Courloy will tell you that in interhall football, that kind of brnathing room donsn 't exist. 
"We went 2-2 last year, but were knpt out or the playoll's on points," (;ourley said. "!The first ganwl is vnry important bocausn we only play four games, and two loses and you could be out of tlw playofl's." 
Zahm will try to get closer to the three wins needed to guar­antee a playoff spot when the Habid Bats play the Vermin from Carroll Sunday at 3 p.m. at Hhiele. 
Carroll went 3-1 during last yoar's regular soason but lost in the playoll"s to Knott. Team cap­tain and starting quarterback Kory Wilmot believes his squad is now ready for the big prize. 
"Carroll's goal this year is nothing less than playing in the stadium," Wilmot said. 
Carroll will have plenty of 
experience on its sideline -or rather, on its side of the scrim­mage line -when it takes the field Sunday, as the Vermin return 20 of 22 starters. In par­ticular, Wilmot is stoked about the returning offense and addi­tion of sophomore transfer run­ning baek Mark Bennett. 
"The offense is definitely our strong suit," Wilmot said. "We're returning 10 of 11 starters, and the lone startflr we lost is being replaced by our transfer lstudentl. And we've still got our two big receivers: Paul Tassinari and Mike Johnson." 

One factor no longer in Carroll's favor is the element of surprise. 
"My first two years here -I don't know how to say this being niee -[Carroll wasn't good]. but last year they were 3-1, and they beat some good teams," Gourley said. ''I'm worried that if we blow this game oil' like it's going to be an easy win, they'll come out and surprise us like they did to a lot of teams last year." 
If Zahm hopes to be successful this year, it will need to fill holes left by graduating seniors and pre-season injuries. 
"The last few ynars our whole def(msn has been dominant, but we lost a few good s1miors, so we'll sen how our frnshmnn stop up," Gourley said. 
In tho Zahm spirit, though, G'!.~~l:-y is undau1~tod. , Ih1s year, so far, we vo been working real hard, and we've been gntting out· solid guys every time coming out," Gourley said. "We have a lot of confi­dence and spirit, and I think we're going to be more in shape than anybody we play." 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthorn4@nd.edu 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Farley and Pasquerilla West set for big Sunday shootout 
pus, it looks like they will match season last year. son, as both teams have some­Wild Women. It was the third By BEN VINCENT and up well against each other, and "Having returning coaches will thing to prove and nothing to semifinal loss in a row for the TOM DORWART 
this game could have a big be a big plus, they know us and lose. Whirlwinds. Sports Writers 
impact on their hopes of making the intense game that is girls' Now, the returnees are baek the playoll's. flag football," PW captain Julie Breen-Phlllips vs. Welsh Family with a vengeance. 
A pair of squads hopes to start Farley's captain Katie Popik Putnam said. Another great Notre Dame sea­The Babes started out the 2004 the season on the right foot says that hor team is replete with She added she and her defen­son kicks off Sunday. It's no varsi­eampaign 3-0 but exitnd early in Sunday when l'asquerilla West veterans, and should have its sive line will pressure Farley's ty sport, but it's still tradition, still the playolls. mnets Farley on WHst Quad at 4 bnst season in recent memory. passing game all day. intense and still fun. They, too, hope to rid them­
p.m. She said their greatest assets "We are all-around strong," Sunday at 3 p.m. at the selves of' the bitter tastn from last 
Thn game promises to be a were depth and experience and, receiver Maureen Spring said. McGlinn fields the Welsh Family season. shootout, with both captains tout­as quarterback, expressed "We've made improvements in Whirlwinds clash with the Brnen­.. ing thnir nH:nivers as among greater confidence in her offense and defense and have a Phillips Babes in the opening Contact Ben Vincent at thnir weatest strnngths. receivers. lot of junior girls returning." Gold League match-up. bvincent@nd.edu and 
While these dorms aren't Moanwhile. Pasquerilla West This eould prove to be one of In 2004, in a semilinal thriller, Tom Dorwart at nxactly the biggnst rivals on earn-looks to build on a suceessful the greatest matehups or the sea-the Whirlwinds lost to the Walsh tdorwart@nd.edu 

LA FIEBRE DEL LOCO, 2ooo 
(LOCO rEVERlwitl! Tiugli.<h .<14/Jiit/r.< Presented at lh<' Vcnic(·, 'J'brnnto, nnd Sund,lllt.'(' film ft•Miv;l('l. 
MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 19.8:00 •• 
Anncnhcrg Audilunum, Snitc MUM:UI\1 nf Art 
6:30 PI Snit~.' Must•um Atriun1. Rt.•t:cptinn for Andre' W1)\11.l 111HncJ1atdr prn:""hng th~ 'i.:h"'IIIIIN Ugh1 refreshment!.; puhlic mvifl.'ll. 

SELECTED FOR SCREENINO IN THE DIRECTORS' FORTNIGHT AT THE 2004 CANNES FILM FESTIVAL 
CHILE'S OFFICIAL SELECTION FOR THE 2005 ACADEMY AWARDS 
WINNER OF EIOHT AUDIENCE AWARDS AT FILM FESTIVALS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18,4:00 P.M.&7:00P.M. HISTDRIAS DE FUTBOL, 1997 Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (SOCCER STORIESlU997lwitl! Enxl"h wvtitlr. 
New dirc\:l~'r awarJ wlnn~r. S.m Scha~>li.tn lnh:nMtitmull'llm l:li..,tivul

Award-winning director Andres 1-\li)C)d will he present at the screenings, with "Question and Answer" after the 4:00p.m. screening 
TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 20,8:00 ""· 
Anm:nberg Auditorium. Snitt• 1\it1.~curn <'f .'\rt Andt·c.>.s Wo<~d will he pre!oocnl fnr "<JUl':.tlun 1tnd An~wcr ..

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 4:30P.M. 
Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Played against the ominous disruptions of "Richly human in _t(Jcus, the drama steadily cranks up Chilean political life in 1973, MACHUCA stirringly its political and emotional charge, poignantly viewing depicts the developing cross-culture friendship its themes through the eyes of two //-year-old boys." of two adolescent boys in a polarized society. David Rooney, VARIETY 
THE MACHUCA SCREENINGS ARE FREE BUT TICKETED EVENTS CALL THE DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER TICKET OFFICE AT 574.631.2800 TO RESERVE TICKETS. 
page 22 Friday, September 16, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles lock horns vvith Aln1a in MIAA n1atch 
Team outscored Scots by 6-1 ratio last year 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The Belles soccer team will head into the hostile confines of Michigan on Saturday after­
noon  to  take  on  the  Alma  
College Scots i n  a  key MIAA  
matchup.  

Saint Mary's looks to capital­ize on the momentum gained from Wednesday's home-open­ing 2-0 victory over Albion College. 
The game was dominated by the Belles on both ends of the field, a good sign considering the close play usually associat­ed with playing Albion. 
In the Albion game the Belles were also able to reverse a three-game scoring drought, a trend they hope to continue. 
If the past is any record, that will be no problem for a renewed Belles attack. 
Last year in two games against the Scots, Saint Mary's netted six goals, while giving up only one. 
But this year they will be fac­ing a tough Alma defe~e ­Pam McCarthy of the Scots was named the MIAA defensive player of week one of confer­ence play. · 
The two games did not end in two victories, however. The first meeting ended in a 1-1 draw; the second game, a home tilt, ended in a 5-0 Belles win. 
The Saint Mary's offense is not the only aspect of the team's game that has been improving. The defense showed up to play on Wednesday and dominated a previously compe­tent Albion attack. 

Every loose ball had a blue and white Belle on it, and every free Albion forward was cor­ralled by a supf}rior defensive strategy. 
Alma once again brings another aspect the Belles must contain -Scots forward Kim Hoeltzel was nominated for MIAA offensive player of last week, finishing second in vot­ing. 
"I have confidence in our tal­ent," Belles coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "It is only a matter of us believing in our­selves and playing hard for the whole 90 minutes." 
And believe they did against Albion, and in their first win of 
the  season  against  SUNY­ 
Brockport.  
Alma is  currently  2-1  in  

MIAA play (3-1 overall) with wins over Adrian College and Tri-State University. The Scots lone loss came at Kalamazoo College. 
"Every game we have played, we have seen some really good stuff," midfielder Carrie Orr said. 
"We have played some of the best teams around. We know that, and we think we can play with anyone." 
Play will begin at 2 p.m. on Alma's field Saturday after­noon. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Squad defeats Concordia 
recorded only nine service
By KEVIN BRENNAN aces in the five games, while 
Sports Writer 
the Belles had 10 aces in the match. 

Lost somewhere in Illinois, Schroeder-Biek particularly the Saint Mary's volleyball liked the balance displayed team may have finally found by Saint Mary's Thursday, as itself. several different players sig­
The Belles ran into some nificantly contributed to the trouble Thursday trying to victory. find Concordia University in Outside attackers Kristen 
River Forest, Ill.  Playko  and  
Saint  Mary's  Michelle  
was forced to dress for the match on the bus  "We jumped on that court and we took  Turley had 22 and 14 kills apiece, while  
and was unable to warm up at all before the start  the lead right off the bat. "  middle hitter Julie Bender put up 14 kills  
of the first game. Despite these  Julie Schroeder-Biek  and aces.  three  
obstacles, Saint  Irish coach  Junior Anne  

Mary's bounced out of its recent slump with a five game defeat of Concordia -30-24, 27-30, 30-18, 25-30, 15-11. The vic­tory boosted the Belles' record on the season to 5-7. 
Head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek loved the way her team set the tone for the opening of the match. 
"We jumped on that court and we took the lead right off the bat," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Saint Mary's corrected the two main problems which it felt led to Tuesday's disap­pointing home loss to tradi­tional conference basement­dweller Olivet. 
The Belles played with a much greater intensity Thursday, Schroeder-Biek said. 
In addition, the Belles were no longer plagued by poor service returns. Concordia 
Cusack put 
forth a superb defensive effort with a team­high 29 digs. 
Amanda David, in her first year playing setter, had a match-high 57 assists. 
Schroeder-Biek was impressed with David's per­formance. 
"I think Amanda David did a real nice job of her accura­cy on running the quick offense," she said. "For her being so new to this, she really did a nice job of setting the transition offense off the dig." 
Concordia entered the game with a poor 2-7 record, but Saint Mary's was impressed by the Cougars' level of play and resiliency. 
"This team didn't have a good record, but they weren't a bad team," Schroeder-Biek said. "We had to work." 
The Belles still have some problems that need to be worked out, though. 
Saint Mary's has made a habit this season of getting ahead in games and allowing the opposing team to claw its way back. 
The trend continued Thursday, as the Belles strug­gled to put the Cougars away in several games. 
"We definitely had our lulls again where we would let them get back in," Schroeder­Biek said. 
Saint Mary's also must start playing better at home. Thursday marked another strong road performance for the team, but the Belles have yet to win a match at the Angela Athletic Center this season. 
"It's like I have two differ­ent teams," Schroeder-Biek said. "We have our home team and our away team, and the away team seems to pick it up a bit more. We need to show our home crowds what we can do." 
The Belles will get a chance to do just that in their next game. 
MIAA rival Kalamazoo College will visit South Bend Tuesday, as the Belles try to carry momentum from the win over Concordia into con­ference play. 
"The women looked confi­dent, and they felt confident," Schroeder-Biek said. "The whole mood is very strong right now. I'm glad to be going into the conference again like this." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 

LIVE AND STUDY 

ROME INFORMATION SESSIONS 
5 PM MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19  131 DEBARTOLO  
OR  
5 PM TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27  131 DEBARTOLO  

Take Kaplan. Score higher. 
LSAT GMAT GRE MCAT DAT. 
Classes are starting soon! 
GMAT starts 9/06 LSA T starts 9/1 0 GRE starts 9/12 MCAT starts 9/24 
Enroll today & save your seat! 
Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back·· 

Test Prep and Admissions t'l 
~rr.(l,l.ll~* tn. ~~s.ttt~J lrl'l<.l<lmll!ft.>< .,)!' lh!'lll N:!~r.tlwl.l"l!o'1JQI.~>. ·~cuudle<rn; 111W r(lllUI<:li~A:~o ~~ F.x cconlP!•xe guarcn1ec. •l+lt*OIIft-NQI.•f»mom~ ~ 
vl$11 I<;&J..lt(l~l.<!>)«t/h!'lf;!. Tlb') ""£11Hr ~rt:t t1uamnhH• 'l'~ 15fflll~b IS> ~· I:Wr.lll!"; 1Al<1111 ':ll"lfk;Nilfsioll¥<1 'II'IU~r~ 1t11:t l,:nlt!H.l '$\eM.~>~ corwau (» 



OUND THE NATION 
Friday, September 16, 2005 CoMPtLED FROM TI..·JE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 23 
AVCA Volleyball Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Nebraska  8-0  1,497  
2  Washington  7-0  1,423  
3  Stanford  8·1  1,386  
4  Penn State  6·2  1,300  
5  Minnesota  6-1  1,275  
6  Hawaii  5·3  1,145  
7  Florida  7·1  1,061  
8  NOTRE DAME  6·0  1,059  
9  Louisville  6·0  987  
10  Missouri  6·0  937  
11  UCLA  5·1  862  
12  Southern California  3-4  799  
13  Wisconsin  5·1  795  
14  Ohio State  6-1  736  
15  Texas A&M  7·2  606  
16  Tennessee  5-1  522  
17  Santa Clara  6·0  520  
18  Texas  5·1  492  
18  San Diego  6·1  492  
20  Arizona  5·1  485  
21  California  5·1  259  
22  Kansas State  8·1  189  
23  Saint Mary's (Calif.)  6·1  169  
24  UC Santa Barbara  3·3  156  
25  Long Beach Stale  5·2  108  
MLS  
Eastern Conference  
team  record  pts.  +1­ 
New England  15·5·6  51  19  
D.C. United  13·9·5  44  15  
Kansas City  11-7-9  42  10  
Chicago  13·10·3  42  1  
MetroStars  9-7-10  37  4  
Columbus  9·13·3  30  ·10  
Western Conference  
team  record  pts.  +1­ 
San Jose  14·4·8  50  15  
Los Angeles  11-11·5  38  2  
FC Dallas  10·9·6  36  4  
Colorado  9·12·4  31  1  
Real Salt Lake  5-16·4  19  -27  
Chivas USA  3·19-5  14  -32  

Big East Men's Soccer 
Blue Division Overall Standings 
team reeord pet. Connecticut 4-0·0 1.000 Seton Hall 4·0·0 1.000 Providence 2·0·2 .750 Georgetown 3-1·0 .750 Marquette 3-1·0 .750 NOTRE DAME 3·1-0 .750 West Virginia 3·2·0 .600 Pittsburgh 1·2·1 .375 

around the dial 
FRIDAY 
MLB 

Oakland at Boston 6 p.m., ESPN 
PGA 

84 Lumber Classic 3 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Houston at UTEP 7 p.m., ESPN2 
SATURDAY 

NCAA FOOTBALL Michigan St. at Notre Dame 2:30 p.m., NBC Wisconsin at North Carolina 6 p.m., ESPN2 Florida St. at Boston College 6:45p.m., ESPN Tennessee at Florida 7 p.m., CBS 
PGA 


beat and was rushed off "It shook me up. He went Toms was even par
Associated Press 

the course in an ambu­down to his knee, got up through nine holes, taking 
FARMINGTON, Pa. -lance. and walked a few steps a bogey on No. 18 after Shaun Micheel could be Toms was in critical con­and then went back to his previously being 1 under. forgiven as a potentially dition at UPMC knee," Micheel said. "I asked him if he want­great round turned into a Presbyterian Hospital in "When an ambulance ed a drink of water, and he very good one at the 84 Pittsburgh on Thursday backs up to the first tee, it just said his chest was Lumber Classic. Once play­night, the administrator on tells you it's a little more hurting and his heart was ing partner David Toms duty at the hospital told serious." racing," Micheel said. ''I'm was rushed to a hospital The Associated Press. The Toms, 38, was initially not a doctor ... but that's with a racing pulse, administrator did not give taken to the nearby generally not a good sign. Micheel had a lot more on her name before hanging Uniontown Hospital, then lie just turned real white, his mind than golf. up the phone. was transported by heli­just didn't have color in his 
Micheel was in the midst Micheel no doubt lost copter to UPMC face." of cutting eight shots off some of his concentration Presbyterian for further Micheel went on to birdie par during a remarkable during what he called "a tests. The hospital dis­Nos. 1, 2 and 3 immodiate­nine-hole stretch Thursday scary moment." He closed no other informa­ly after Toms was stricken, when Toms -a former bogeyed his final three tion, but Adam Young, the as the group started the PGA champion -became holes to settle for a 7-director of the David Toms day on No. 10, and had an white-faced, dropped to his under 65, not long after a Foundation, said Toms had oagle on the par-5 No. 5 knee in discomfort com­59 or a 60 seemed a possi­spoken with his family sev­and a birdie on the par-4 plaining of a rapid heart bility. eral times. No.6 to get to 10 undnr. 

IN BRIEF 

New Orleans Bowl set to play 
in Lafayette, La. 
NEW ORLEANS -The New Orleans Bowl may have a bit more Cajun flavor this year. 
With the Superdome awaiting mas­sive repairs and New Orleans pro­jected to be cleaning up from Hurricane Katrina for months, the December bowl game may move to Lafayette, La.. said Billy Ferrante, executive director of the Greater New Orleans Sports Foundation. 
"We have had some very prelimi­nary talks with the folks at Louisiana-Lafayette and our first choice is to keep the game in Louisiana," he said. "Hopefully, we will have a decision wrapped up in a couple of weeks." 
The 5-year-old bowl game matches the champion of the New Orleans­based Sun Belt Conference with a team from Conference USA. Louisiana-Lafayette is a Sun Belt member. This year's game is sched­uled for Dec. 20. · 
Sun Belt commissioner Wright Waters said his office and C-USA had been prepared to take over operating the game this year if the Sports Foundation proved unable to, but applauded Ferrante's decision. Senate committee calls for more steroid hearings 
WASHINGTON -The commission­ers of Major League Baseball, the National Football League, the National Basketball Association and the National Hockey League have been called to testify about their leagues' steroids policies before the Senate Commerce Committee on Sept. 28. 
Two proposed bills that would mandate drug-testing standards for major pro sports have been intro­duced by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Jim Bunning, R-Ky. 
Witnesses are expected to include baseball commissioner Bud Selig, baseball players' union head Donald Fehr. NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue, NFL players' union head Gene Upshaw. NBA commissionor David Stern, NBA players' union head Billy Hunter and NIII. commis­sioner Gar~ Bettman. Forward helps Connecticut draw even With Sacramento 
UNCASVILLE. Conn. -Taj McWilliams-Franklin can't rmnem­ber the last time she jumped as high. 
And it seemed just about evnry time the Connecticut forward went up, she came down with a rebound. 
McWilliams-Franklin grabbnd five boards in overtime and hit the go­ahead jumpnr, helping the Sun beat the Sacramnnto Monarchs 77-70 Thursday night to tie thn WNBA Finals at 1-all. 
She finished with 24 points and 16 rebounds. 
"Our post coach always says, ·c;nt. to every rebound.' I just wantnd to make sure I got my hand on a few," she said. 
"I missed a couple of good shots there in regulation, so I wanted to so somothing else to help them." 
Friday, September 16, 2005 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S GOLF 

Team gearing up forth~ Gopher Invitational 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN  junior Cole lsban and sopho­more Mike King.  event, Kubinski spoke about how the course would play and  things ... ! think we'll be in good shape."  leaders of the squad for the last several years, as Baldwin,  
Associate Sports Editor  "These are four guys who  the keys to being successful.  Kubinski is confident with the  Deutsch and Gustafson have all  
have  been  The  Irish  way his golfers have been play­ received All-Big East recogni­ 
Four hundred fifty-two-yard par four. Driver, 8-iron, putter.  through the wars," Kubinski  "/feel really  coach h,as never seen the new  ing so far this season. He spoke about the golfers  tion. Isban, according to Kubinski,  
Little downhill, right to left.  said.  comfortable with the  golf course that  having productive summers and  is the No. 1 golfer on the team  
Nice bird. The Irish golf team will be hoping for similar results this  It is the first official match of the season for  way the guys are playing. I think it  will be used for the Invitational. However, he  getting prepared for the 2005 season. And with the added prepara­ this year. Mike King, while young, still has a fair amount of college golf  
weekend,  as  they travel  to  Notre  Dame,  will give us  expects it to play  tion comes confidence.  experience, playing in the Big  
Wayzata, Minn. for the Gopher Invitational.  despite Deutsch and Isban's par­ a great shot.''  long, a common element in· col­ "I think they realize now that they can compete against the  East Championship and the regionals.  
"We're pretty excited about  ticipation in the  lege golf courses.  best, and that's something that I  Following  the  Gopher  
it," Irish coach Jim Kubinski  U.S.  Amateur  Jim Kubinski  "We're  all  don't think they necessarily had  Invitational, the Irish will play  
said.  event in August.  Irish coach  going to  kinda  before last spring and before  four  more matches this season  
"I feel pretty good about our  "I  feel  really  get  our  look  this past summer," Kubinski  - one  in  Alabama,  one  in  
lineup, we got a lot of experi­ comfortable with  Friday  at  the  said.·  North Carolina  and  two  in  
ence.  the way the guys are playing ...  practice round," Kubinski said.  All five Irish golfers making  California.  
Making the trip for the Irish  I think it will give us a great  "We'll have to drive the ball  the trip have experience with  
are seniors Mark Baldwin, Eric  shot," Kubinski said.  well, and we'll have to put well.  the team.  Contact Bobby Griffin at  
Deutsch and Scott Gustafson,  In the week leading into the  I think if we  do  those  two  The three seniors have been  rgriffi3@nd.edu  

SMC GOLF 

Belles hit road, head to Normal for two-day tournament 
. By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
After a strong showing in 
their first MIAA appearance 
of the season on Wednesday 
night, the Saint Mary's golf 
team will take a break from 
conference opponents and 
take to the road this weekend 
to compete in the Illinois 
Wesleyan University 
Invitational. 
The Belles will depart for 
Normal, Ill. with six golfers 
today for the two-day tourna­
ment, which will conclude 
tomorrow afternoon. 
Prior to Wednesday's con­
ference competition, Saint 
Mary's had competed in a pair 
of difficult matches. 
The season kicked off with 
an appearance at the Ferris 

State Invitational, where the Belles were pitted against a combination of Division-!, II and III teams. 
Shortly after that, the team accepted an invitation to com­pete in the Notre Dame Invitational, where it faced an entire group of Division-! schools. 
All of the effort that they put into performing well at those two meets seems to have paid off for the Belles. On Wednesday night, Saint Mary's finished 17 strokes ahead of second place finish­ers Olivet, the same team who defeated the Belles less than two weeks ago at the Bulldog Invitational. Their team score of 332 was enough to not only set a course record at the Thornapple Pointe Golf Club, but also to once again put Saint Mary's at the top of the MIAA rankings. 
Beautiful acoustic guitars. Pick one up. www.RGGmusic.com  
I A M RESTAURANT Now Hiring Experienced Server Apply in Person ' 211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 232.,4445 www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com  

Th,e Belles' hard work over the past two weekends, com­bined with their successful match two days ago, should give them exactly what they need in order to give a strong showing this weekend. 
The MIAA match certainly gave the team confidence, but the Belles have been prepared for a while. 
"Even coming out of last weekend I think we're ready for it," senior and co-captain Kirsten Fantom said. 
Ironwood Golf Course, 
Study in 

where the event is held, is a familiar place to the upper­classmen on the team. Saint Mary's has competed there in both the fall and spring sea­s ons f o r t h e p ast c o u p l e. years. 
So what will it take for Saint Mary's to continue its momen­tum and defeat regional rivals DePauw University, one of the schools who will be at the event? 
"It's going to be short-game based, but that's the way Ironwood is," Fantom said. 
The course is not particu­larly challenging, but it is 
likely to come down to a chip­ping and putting contest. 
"If your short game is solid you're going to do well," Fantom said. 
And after reclaiming their spot at No. 1 in the MIAA, the Belles feel that they are in perfect position to do well. 
"We're excited about it," Fantom said. "We anticipate low scores, and our confi­dence was restored yesterday at our first conference match." 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO1 @saintmarys.edu 
CHINA 

Information Sessio 
€IliN~ and ~H·AN ~HAl 

5PM Tuesday, September 20 117 Hayes-Healy or 
5PM Monday, September 26 129 Hayes-Healy 
-

friday, September 16, 2005 

The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
MEN's INTERHALL FooTBALL 
Intrigue and intensity sure to mark first games 
Knights and Kangaroos set to square off; Siegfried and Knott will lock horns 
By TIM KAISER and 
CATHERINE KANE 
Sporrs Writers 
Heigning interhall football champions Keenan will open up their new season against Knough on Sunday, thnir first game sinee an exciting one­point vietory over Knott in last fall's championship. 
Needless to say, the Knights have high expectations for the 1~oming snason. 
"!We're looking! very good," Knnnan captain Vince Lyzinski said. 
"We'rn looking forward to a good game, and we're exeited to be baek on the field again." The team has a good balance of leadership and young blood, with six or sevnn seniors rnlurning, as well as ·lots of 


ant your eas 
ere 
... we have. The GE H system turbine is one of the world's most efficient gas turbines. capable of delivering 60% efficiency. Higher efficiency means less fuel is required to generate electricity ... fewer emissions mean less greenhouse gas. In one year, a GE H turbine will emit 73.000 tons less carbon dioxide emissions as compared to the same amount of electricity generated by a conventional gas turbine combined cycle system. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to grow your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance, manu­facturing, sales and marketing, human resources, or informa­tion technology. 
ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com 
an equal opportunity employer 


imagination at work 
new freshman who will be playoffs. playing their first game wear­"The team is looking real ing navy and white. good, but we need a little 
This year's squad looks to work," junior outside line-
h ave  a  s i m i I a r  baeker  Chaz  
strategy to last yoar's, with a  "The team is looking  Arnold "Keenan  said. is  
balaneed offense  real good, but we need  tough, but we're  
incorporating  a little more work. "  going  to  come  
both  the  pass  out  prepared.  
and run, and hard-nosed  Chaz Arnold  The defense looks great, we  
defense looking  Keough linebacker  can  definitely  
to  make  big  run with them."  
plays. The team  Keough play­ 

is hoping that these familiar ers say their defense will be schemes will bring familiar solid against both the run and results, and a repeat of last the pass, as the strong points season's exploits. of the team. 
On the other side of the "We're working hard in at ball, Keough also has high practice," sophomore captain hopes for the season, looking and linebacker Zachary Brown to rebound from last year's said. "We're trying to put a disappointing campaign in solid offense together -that's which they failed to make the always been our weakness. 
We're trying to put some may bn eomn snason's end, points on the board this year." thny will havn definitely had a 
The team is looking for good time, as will fans who strong performances from come out to see this exciting many members, ineluding opening-day match-up. Arnold on defense, as well as The two teams will play on seniors "Big" Hob Holman and Sunday at 3 p.m. on Hiehlo Brian Bylycea on both the Fields with Keenan acting as 
offensive and defensive lines, 
"We are confident

freshman Mike Anello and about our returning Brown. 
starters and excited 
But in whatev­
for our incoming

er part of their game plan the freshmen. " Kangaroos may 
be lacking, they Tom Martin certainly more 
a k e uP f0 r in Siegfried offensive guard 

111 
personality. The 
team's defense looks to strike Sunday in tho first intorhall 
fear into the hearts of coming game of the season. 
opponents. "We're pretty well pre~ Whatever Keough's record pared," Siegfried defensive end and offensive guard Tom Martin said. "The whole team is coming together pretty well." Siegfried has brought in some new coaches this season, and Martin feels that they have really aided in the bet­terment of the team. Siegfried's strength, Martin claims, is its backfield. Regarding weaknesses, Martin pointed to some gradu­ated players, but as whole, still feels the team has improved. "Although we lost a few defensive and offensive play­ers last year, we are definitely a better team," Martin said. "We are confident about our returning starters and exeitnd for our incoming freshmen." As for key players to look for, don't bother. "Wn go as a team," Kann said. "Not one person is tlw superstar. No one player is going to run the team. We really have a great team chemistry." Siegfried seems well-equipped for the game on Sunday, but Knott is eager to mateh up against a confident opponent. Knott should, howevor, bn warned that Siegfried has some extra incentive to win the championship this season. Siegfried assistant rP.etor and assistant football eoaeh Pete Live!, has promised tho team that if it wins the eharn­pionship, he will wnar women's undnrwear for a week. Representatives from Knott eould not be reached for eom­ment. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu and Ctherine Kane at ckane2@nd.edu 
A diversified technology, financial services, media company. 
Write for Sports. 
Call Mike at 1-4543. 
tho home tnam. 
Siegfried vs. Knott 
Facing one another on the quad, Knott and Siegfried have ample opportuni­ty to invostigato what tho otlwr toam has in storo for them this 


Friday, September 16, 2005 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Catholic schools set to run at Burke Memorial 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Wrirer 

Catholic college cross coun­try supremacy will be on the line this afternoon when the Notre Dame women's cross country team hosts the National Catholic Championships at Burke Memorial golf course. 
The Irish, who are ranked third in the nation by Finishlynx/WICAA, have domi­nated the Catholic Championships, winning 11 of the last 13 races, including each of the last three. 
Notre Dame will enter nine runners in the race, which begins at 4:15p.m. 
After running a number of underclassmen last weekend at Valparaiso, the Irish will add more experience to this afternoon's lineup. 
Coach Tim Connelly's goal is much the same as last week­end's. He hopes to get his younger runners more experi­ence and build his team's depth for later in the season. 
Heading the lineup will be sophomore Sunni Olding, who earned All-America honors by finishing 32nd in the NCAA championship meet last fall. 
Connelly explained his deci­sion to run one of his top ath­letes in this afternoon's meet. 
"She needs a race, a confi­dence booster," Connelly said. "She ended the track season injured so she's a little behind. It will be good for the rest of kids to have Sunni running with them." 
Olding will be joined by vet­erans Elizabeth Webster, Jean Marinangeli and Loryn King. Marinangeli and Olding will be running their first races of the season, while King and Webster contributed to a third place finish at Valparaiso last weekend. 
Ann Mazur, last weekend's top finisher for the Irish, will join Becca Bauman, Amy Kohlmeier, Katie DeHusso and Julie Opet in rounding out the squad. 
Last year's individual cham­pion at the Catholic Championships, Stephanie Madia, will not compete in the race this year. 
She will continue training for later in the season with the rest of her Irish teammates. 
Notre Dame's success in the meet is a considerable accom­plishment considering the large number of schools com­peting. 
Thirty-five schools are expected to field teams this afternoon. 
Connelly thought the large field may present some prob­lems for his team at the race's outset. 
"The start could be a little hairy," Connelly said. "It's going to be tight getting to that first turn. They need to get out well to put themselves in good position. It should spread out 
quickly  once  the  race gets  
going."  
Hace  strategy  will  be  

Connelly's focus this after­noD"n. 
Connelly said he is more concerned with how the Irish run today than with how fast they run. 
He ·stressed the importance of getting out well together and staying together through the early part of the race. 
Conditions are expected to be ideal for racing this after­noon, with the forecasted high in low 70s, a far cry from the 85-degree heat the Irish bat­tled last weekend. 
Connelly felt the weather, combined with his team's familiarity with the surround­ings, would give them an excellent opportunity to suc­ceed today. 
"It should be a lot more com­fortable this weekend," Connelly said. "The girls get to race at home in a low-key environment. When you are relaxed, often times you run well." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 
4 1'..-tftl\l CAl''}.~, \~l)• II• "' IV, S l r ~ t<"' IT. C 0 1'\ 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, and faculty and staff ride all TRANSPO buses fare-free upon showing a current, valid identification card issued by the schooL Pick up at 6 Locations (includtng Library, Regina Hall and University Village) on campus & runs every 30 minutes. 
g
HURRICANE KATRINA 
ASSISTANCE 
Come in and knit 9" Xgu squares for blankets. Then we'll assemble and ship to The American Red Cross. 
~ 0 ~ · Every Thursday is THE O.C. night at Sit &Knit. ~he season premiere is Thursday, Sept. 8th al7 pm CST. From 6-8:30p.m. enjoy free !atles, mochas and flavored coffees Bring your knitting or let us start you on anew one. 129 S. Michigan St. 574/232-KNIT Downtown South Bend between Qui;c:no and LePeep Hours: Mon-Thu 10-7 Fri-Sat 10-6 Sun Noon-6 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Irish travel back to Texas 
Team slated to play the Tigers and Wave 
By TOM DORWART 
Sports Wrirer 

After a few days of being unsure of their weekend plans, the No. 8 Irish (6-0) have headed to Texas -again. 
Notre Dame will play Tulane (1-0) at 2 p.m. today and LSU (8-1) at 11 a.m. Sunday in the Sugar Bowl Classic, which was originally slated to take place in New Orleans but has been moved to the campus of Texas A&M. 
The Tigers are off to one of the best starts in school histo­ry -in fact, their best since 1991. Currently No. 33 in the American Volleyball Coaches' Association rankings, the Tigers are receiving votes for the first time in head coach Fran Flory's eight-year career. Their lone loss came to then­No. 13 Texas A&M 28-30, 30­17, 30-28, 29-31, 15-13. 
Tulane has played only one match this season. Since the Green Wave's Aug. 26 season­opener against Nicholls State -which they won 3-0 -they have had six matches can­celled because of Hurricane Katrina's destruction to their campus and consequent relo­cation. A newfound pride will likely carry the Wave in their first match in three weeks. 
Notre Dame knows it's in for two dogfights this weekend, but a visit to Texas did won­ders for the Irish last week .. 
Now, they can only hope to have the same kind of experi­ence: 
e ATMs near ht where you em~ right when d them. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 



JMs on campus NO surchargel 


Last weekend Notre Dame swept through the University of Texas San Antonio's Dome Hally at the Alamodome, beat­ing two top-1 0 .teams in Southern California and Florida as well as Oklahoma. 
"The thing that was really good to see on numerous occa­sions was that there were times when it was pretty easy for the team to fall apart," coach Debbie Brown said. "But we didn't; we remained competitive and composed." 
The Irish lost the first Friday game to the Trojans, but fought back to win the next three. That comeback just might be the epitome of the Notre Dame season thus far Brown said. 
"The second game [against USC] was huge," she said. "For us to come back and win that one maybe set the tone for the rest of the weekend. That was pretty exciting." 
This weekend the Irish trav­el to College Station to face a hot Tiger squad and a fired-up Green Wave. The Irish are just glad to be playing rather than having to wait until Sept. 25 to play Big East foe Seton Hall. 
And, while at the time Brown said the USC match might have set the tone for last weekend, it just might have set the tone for the entire season. 
Today, her team will find out. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 


Friday, September 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Runner-up Chaos start new season vs. Chicks 
core is headlined by co-captain vide Cavanaugh with a signifi­
Lyons battles Howard 
Kara Bailey, and it should ease cant ehallenge Sunday.
in other league action the transition of a new quarter­back. Cavanaugh will depend Lyons vs. Howard on stalwart quarterback Lisa Two teams look to start the 
By JAMES FEGAN, Huffer to lead its offense again season on good footing as the 
JASON GALVAN and this season. The Chaos also Lyons Hall Lions square off 
GREG ARBOGAST possess several impaet players against the Howard Dueks this 
Sports Writers on a tough defense, including weekend. The Ducks and Lions, 
Lauren Manning and middle each fresh off their pre-season 
Tho oponing game of the linebaeker Kerri Bergen. training, will face eaeh other at 2005 women's intcrhall football Despite the high expectations, 2 p.m. Sunday at West Quad. soason pits an up-and-coming the first game will serve as an The importance of this game Lowis toam with last yoar's opportunity for both teams to is enormous for the two ball­runnnr-up, Cavanaugh. get a feel for how their teams dubs, with each team seeking 
Tlw two halls will meet will eompctc this year. to gain momentum going into Sunday for the first lime in "It's the first game of the sea­the regular season. Lhrno ynars. Cavanaugh, which son, so we really want to just The Lions, led by co-captains storrnnd through the 2004 rog­see how our offense and Katie Maekin and Megan ular soason undefeated, defense work," Lewis co-eap­llassell, are confident going apprHtrs to be strong once tain Julia Borke said. in to their first test. again with six returning While this game will be a bit "We are really excited ... startnrs on both offonse and of a trial run for both teams, everyone is really pumped for dnfnnse. Cavanaugh captain Hachel Sunday," Mackin said. 
With the eoro of last year's Byrne wants her team to Each team has lost starters tnam intact. Cavanaugh has remain focused. from last season and will have lngilimatn ambitions of roturn­"Wn really just need to foeus newcomers at several key posi­ing to the title game in Notre on executing the game plan, tions. However, they are confi­Dame Stadium. and not really pay to much dent their new players will step 
Not to bo overlooknd is Lewis, attention to what the other up to the challenge. which is coming oil' a promising team tries to do," she said. Despite some key losses on 2-2-2 season when they fell just Cavanaugh looks to begin its offense from last year's short of a playoff berth. Lewis quest to return to the ehampi­starters, the Lions' captain returns mueh of last year's onship game Sunday, and is expresses a great deal of confi­ol'fnnsn, and despite a slew of suprmnely confident. dence in her rookies. lossns on defense, the team is "We have the athletes and the "We have some girls with vnry eonfidnnt about the quality diseipline. so that if we just some really good hands," of this ynar's frnshmen class. exfH~utc our game plan. we Mackin said. 
Hnturning a majority of its don't have anything to worry Despite some unproven areas startnrs, Lewis is going to rely about," Byrne said. for each team, there are still on its ol'fnnse to take thn prns­Ilowcver, Lewis counters with several positions with veteran surn niT of its younger dnfnnse. a eapable offense and young players. These leaders will Tlw Chicks' strong rceeiving talent on defense, and will pro-prove to be crucial in this con­test and as the year progresses. 
Mackin is especially conlident about the strength of the Lions' defensive unit, which sports several returning starters. 
"We're very quick and nasty," Maekin said of her defense. 
The Lions will be coaehed by newcomers John Harrington, Chase Gunner and Pat Heidy. This new staff has been imple­menting a new offense. and they are hopeful that the girls will be ready for the upcoming eontest. 
"We have a strong program this year with a lot of returning talent," Harrington said. 
Despite a strong regimen of workouts during the oll'-season leading up to this weekend's game, the true test for the teams will come at game time. 
"I think we will be suecessful once we come together as a team," Mackin said. "We have a lot of talent, we just need to come together." 
Howard Ducks representa­tives could not be reached for comment Thursday. 
McGlinn vs. Pasquerilla East 
The 2005 women's interhall football season begins Sunday evening fresh with new hope for the McGlinn Shamrocks and the Pasquerilla East Pyros, when the squads face oiT at 5 
p.m. on West Quad. Both teams are looking to 
rebound from subpar years. While neither team made the 
t~entral Vr()!!ressive r=il111 Se1~ies 

playoffs a season ago, the nnw season is full of hope for oithnr team as both McGlinn and PI\ return startors at key positions. 
Por McGlinn, quartnrback and now-captain Bridgot Meacham returns to dirnct tho Shamrock offense along with the assistance of sonior running back Haque) Ferrer. Thnso two should provide a balanced offense throughout tho season, not allowing defenses to con­centrate solely on the run or pass. 
For PE, the potnnt combina­tion of quarterback Laura Adams and wide receivnr Caroline Nally returns to again provide the bulk of the ofl'nnse. 
With a year of experionce, these two should only improve on their performancos from a year ago. 
The real question for tho Pyros in this gamo is dofensn. 
Susceptible to tho big play a year ago, the Pyros will have to improvo in this area if thoy plan on a trip to the playoll's. 
With both teams having nxpo­ricnce at such key positions, expect some points to b1~ put on the board this Sunday night, and the winner will liknly bo dntermined by which team's 

-
defense plays bettnr. 
Contact James Fegan, Jason Galvan and Greg Arbogast at jfegan@nd.edu, jgalvan@nd.edu and garbogas@nd.edu 
Remodeled House for Rent 1mile southeast of NO 3 bed, 2 bath $995/month IMMACULATE! 
315-9463 


NATIONAL CATHOLIC CHAMPIONSHIPS 
r···--·--........................---······-..-­
Frida_y, Sept. 16 1 i
i. 

@+:15pm & 5:00pm Free Admission I 1 ForALL I 5urke Golf Course IND, SMC, and HCCI

I 
Students 
1 

-FIRST 100 I"ANS WILL R=A ' , I> GOLD GAMEST-SHIRT 
FRJ::e NJ::STJNG DoLL TO FiRST )(10 FANS -"' 
Sunda!::l, Sept. 18@ 1:00pm 
vs. Michigan @!!!.tlilh. 
fiRST 250 FANS WILL RE:CE:NE A · . NOTRE DAME SCJ-iE:DULE: GLASS 
FREE: CHILl TO EARLY ARRIVING FANS 
Friday, September 16, 2005 


~..~~···;,;.-.·· 

Pl.A'I LIKE 
A OH.AMPION TOOAll 
41 

-
-
Majestic Athletic. Official Licensee of the University of Notre Dame~ 
FIGHTING IRIS

Available on Campus and at Local Retailers. 
~ ¥ ••••••• ¥ ••• -...... • •••••• ' • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 0...... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . ......... ' ................................................................... ' ....... '... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...................................... . 
Friday, September 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
"I think we could do a little their main weakness. Although "The teams are really exeit­better than tiH~ 70s hand-me­this weakness, they say, is due to ed," Ward said. 
Red Stornt Rivalries 
continued from page 32 
ranked No. 16 and hold a 3-1 record. 
The team has seen eontribu­lions from veterans and new­comers, and goalkeeper Chris Cahill has been a pleasant surprise for a rebuilding 
ddmlSI~. 
";\II the boys that we tako, from the starting guys to tho harkup guys, have got to be n~ady to add whatcvf~r they can add to the team on this trip," Clark said. 
t\llhough the foeus is on St. .John's, tlw road trip will end with a jounwy to Syracuse. 
"We also travel to Syracuse on Sunday so two very, very lkny games!." Clark said. "Syraeusn has started off. I think, 4-0, so that has been tlwir host start for a lot of years." 
The Irish kick ofT conference play with two of the toughest opponm1ts thny'll face all year, but the team is ready for the challenge. 
"This is not an easy trip for Notre Damn soccer, hut it's a trip I think we have got the ability to take something posi­tive out of it," Clark said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Recycle The Obsever. 
continued from page 32 

"It's a problem," McGettigan said. 
Despite the setback, MeG1~ttigan feels that his team is prepared for O'Neill. 
"We've won !against O'Neill! both times I rnmember, so we have a lot of conlidnncc," he said. 
O'Neill, on the other hand, is looking to win its opening game fhr tlw first time in hall history, and O'Neill captain Matt Hughey recognizes tho challenge ahead. 
"Alumni, they're going to bo a tough test," he said. "They're known to be tough. This is a piv­otal game, it's going to dictate which way the season will go." 
Last year, O'Neill's record was 1-2-1, the best record in the hall's history. 
"I think we have a great ehanee to improve," IIughey said. "!We have) a lot of commit­ment from the players." 
O'Neill has only about five sen­iors, while freshmen compose nearly a third of the team. Hughey feels that everyone has been working very hard to pre­pare. 
As far as practices go, we've really had some great prac­tices," he said. "I think we're as ready as we can be." 
In terms of equipment, Alumni was in the middle of the pack for pad selection, and McGettigan said that all his players are fairly satisfied. 
O'Neill was third for pad selec­tion, though Hughey feels as though Notre Dame could improve in terms of getting pads for the players. 
downs," he said. 

When it comes down to game time, looking like players from 30 years ago won't be on any­one's mind. All that matters for these teams is coming away with a victory. Hughey says there's no question about their objective. 
"Obviously, our goal is to make it to the championship," he said. 
Stanford vs. Dillon 

Although they take the field as enemies on Sunday, both Dillon and Stanford have the same goal -victory. 
This prize remains from last year's game when the score ended in a 0-0 tie. 
"Shutout," Dillon captain Kenny Cushing said, referring to Dillon's goal this weekend. "Shutout victory!" 
Stan ford captain Phil McNicholas had the same game plan. 
"We played Dillon last year and didn't give up a point," McNicholas said. "Our offense didn't score in the game, but that should change this time." 
Yet, both squads claim that defense is the strength of their respective teams. 
"Our strength has got to be our defense," McNicholas said. "For the season last year, the defense gave up a total of nine points in four games. Most of our starters are back from last year, but we also added even more talent, so I'm really excited to see how our defense plays this year." 
Dillion captain Romeo Acosta pointed to his defensive line as the Big Hod's strongest aspect. 
And, fittingly, both Dillon and Stanford agree that offense is lack of experience in interhall football, not laek of skill in the game it<>elf. 
"Inexperience is definitely one of our weaknesses, because we have a lot of freshman and new upperclassmen on the toam," Acosta said. 
McNicholas has similar thoughts about his offense. 
"One weakness might be a lack of experience on oiTense," MiNicholas said. "We have most­ly a new east of characters, including quarterback Brian Salvi and running back .Joey Benitez, both freshmen. They may be freshmen, but they have a lot of talent and will do just fmc." 
Sunday's game seems to be in the hands of the new offense and its capability to rise to the captains' expectations of scor­ing. 
It seems that the teams have been evenly matched, and the game could swing either way. Some players crucial to that swing include Dillon's Lennie Giannone and Dan Avants and Stanford's Eddie Medriek. 
Sorln vs. St. Ed's 
In a highly anticipated opening weekend matehup, St. Edward's and Sorin face off Sunday at Rihele Field North at 1 p.m. in a battle for God Quad bragging rights. · 
The Stedsmen, led by captain Dan Ward, are trying to improve on last year's team that failed to make the playofl's. To make sure his team is ready for Sorin, Ward has been working his players hard as of late, induding six practices in the last two weeks. 
For St Ed's, part of turning it'> football team around is also building team unity. Tho Stedsmen had a team dinner Thursday night in ordnr to get nveryone ready to win on Sunday. 
St. Ed's hopes to upset tho Sorin Ottl~rs in a game that Ward feels confident his team will do woll. 
Facing olr against St. Ed's will be the Sorin Ottors. Hoping to build on last yoar's semifinal team, Sorin captain Pete Lavorini huilt a solid loam with a tough dnfonsn led by sophomore Hyan Bove and junior Mike c;odino. 
To go along with the strong defonse, Sorin promises a high powernd ofl'ense, lnd by sopho­morn Stu Mora and juniors Chris Paley and Kevin Tooke. 
"We've got a good talented team like every yoar," Lavorini said. "Wo're just going to going to go out and play IL'i hard as we ean. It'll be a hard fought game betwoen us and St. Ed's." 
In what promises to bn a David and Goliath rematch, St. Ed's and Sorin will bo a quality game to see. The Otters are focused on getting back to the playoffs and this time winning tho championship. The Stedsmen are determined to improve and want to prove themselves against a good team. Either way, both teams are ready to win. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarul@nd.edu, Tim Kaiser at 
tkaiser@nd.edu and Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa2@nd.edu 




,---­
! f 
I 
I I 
I page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 16, 2005 
I 
I I f 
defense one of the better back­fields in the country, DePaul will
Two

! have to play a near flawless I continued {rom page 32 game to hang with Notre Dame. ~ Waldrum said that the Irish I will have to focus on executingl that his squad could play to its their plays properly, rather than 
! 
maximum potential, but many of countering specific tendencies of the problems that loomed large the opponent. when the Irish lost to Santa Clara "With DePaul being a new 
t 
a week ago still plague the team. team into the conference ... whatI He said that freshman forward we're going to focus on forI Brittany Bock is making progress Friday is trying to get the backs 
on a knee injury, and several more and more organized," other players have missed prac­Waldrum said. tice time this week. The DePaul game wasn't the 
"l haven't gotten the update on only one the Irish have to pre­Jill fKrevicekl on what her status pare for this week, though. will be [for the weekend They host Michigan (2-1-2) at 1 games]." Waldrum said. p.m. Sunday in another 
That could pose somewhat of a Midwest battle. problem for the Irish, as prepa­The game against Michigan is rations for DePaul of historical 
were somewhat "The one thing that importance, as the 
more difficult Wolverines were
continues to be good
because of the the last team to lack of history is the attacking part defeat Notre between the ofour game.·· Dame at Alumni teams. Field. In fact, 
However, Michigan repre­three weeks after falling 3-2 to their season opener, and will try to continue their aggres­
Randy Waldrum 
DePaul's lacklus­sents Notre them in the team's final regular­matched No. 6 Texas A&M with sive offensive play this weekend. ter offense may Irish head coach Dame's last two season game. the same score Sept. 4. "The one thing that continues allow the Irish home losses. The Wolverines are not as The Irish offense, however, is to be good is the attacking part more breathing room in the con­The Irish lost 1-0 to the strong as they were two years more potent than any of those of our game," he said. test; the Blue Demons have man­Wolverines at home Nov. 16, ago, but have proven difficult for that Michigan has played thus aged only two goals in five 2003 in the second round of the good teams this year. far this year. Contact Ken Fowler at games this year. With the Irish NCAA tournament, less than They tied No. 23 Kansas 1-1 in Waldrum said that the Irish kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

to rest his top runners for late­contributed to last week's victory DePaul, Duquesne, Detroit­Championships and has 17 total season competitions. at Valparaiso. Rodriguez led the Mercy, Holy Cross (MA), Loyola wins in the meets 26-year histo­
Host 

Racing this week for the Irish way with a second-place finish. (MD), St. Louis, San Diego, Siena, ry. will be sophomores Zach Einterz, Adams, Bradley and St. Bonaventure, Xavier and The meet will begin with a JV
continued from page 32 

Einterz, Brett Adams, James Moore also finished in the top Notre Dame. race at 3:30 p.m. today, followed Kaleb Van Ort and Kurt Millar, Mark Moore, Dan Bradley 10. The Irish are the highest by the women's race at 4:15 and Benninger will all sit out Friday's and Mike Popejoy and freshmen Veselik, Smyth and Barany are ranked team in the field. No the men's race at 5. Admission is meet. Chris Rodriguez, Robbie Barany, all running in their first colle­other team is ranked in the top free to all races. 
Piane said he wanted to see his Kevin Veselik and Patrick Smyth. giate race. Division I schools 30 by the USCCCA. younger runners gain meet Rodriguez, Adams, Bradly, competing in Friday's meet Notre Dame has won thelast Contact Chris Khorey at experience, and he also wanted Millar, Moore and Popejoy all include Canisius, Dayton, 10 National Catholic ckhorey@nd.edu 
Bain Capital is one of the leading private investment firms in the world, managing over $26 billion of leveraged buyout, public equity and credit funds. 
As an analyst, you will work with over 40 investment professionals on the Sankaty Advisors team to help drive multimillion-dollar, global investment decisions and build exceptional financial and business analysis skills. 
To learn more about this exclusive opportunity, we invite you to_attend our information
Q.session on Friday, September 16th, 1:15pm and 2:15pm at Cafe DeGrasta. 
= 

= = 
= 

Information Session I Friday, September 16th 1:15pm and 2:15pm at Cafe DeGrasta, 1st floor, Grace Hall (Space is limited so please email Laura Connelly to reserve a spot or with questions, lconnelly@baincapital.com) 
Resume Deadline I Sunday, September 18th 
On Campus Interviews I Monday, September 26th 

~----------------------------------------~-------------------------------~ 
Friday, September 16, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
HENRI ARNOLD

ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS JUMBLE
JOCKULAR 
MIKE ARGIRION 



JJ~ffil1~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, He relaxes by 
to form four ordinary words. making the rounds 
9 months later 
RAYAR 
riJ I 
<Cl2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DAMAR 
j
I rI 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
tCOBORN I 
HOW THE MAE­
STRO STUDIED
I IJ 
THE SC.ORE FOR HIS NEXT C.ONC.ERT. 
www.Jumble.com
tBLUMFE j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J rI I I 
suggested by the above car-
1\rlli: [ 
I I I J [ I I JTO[ I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) .. 
Yesterday· I Jumbles: TRACT MAJOR HUMBLE BROGUE 
s Answer: When the lumberjacks formed a jazz group 
they ended up with a -LOG "JAM" 




---~============================================================~========== 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 29 Prefix with DOWN professional
1 Airplane • 1 Ems and others passenger's 31 "Rugrats" dad 
2 A shot 
option 34 Whupped 3 Not pizzicato 
10 Volunteer's response 38 Course setting: 4 Tropical tuber Abbr.
15 Some conic 5 Help in holding sections 39 Drillers' group? up 
16 "The Gene 40 Campbell s Signals Krupa Story" Soup Co. 
7 Flash
title role brand portrayer, 1959 8 Bat spinner 
41 Stpp up

17 Certifies 9 De bene 43 Some mouths (provisionally)
18 Colleague of Freud 44 Downhill 10 Turkish hostel 
19 Gabs 11 Increases in
47 effort capacity
21 It has many 49 Thingy
decision points 12 Sound 55 "_ my way!"
22 They make 13 Gibbons of TV your business 56 Bugbear 
14 Like some oldtheirs 57 Common monitors, for 
23 Mark of survey option short prestige 
20 How some 27 Some shelter things are dwellers 59 Appropinquates played 
58 Ditched 

28 Part of a stage so Bite 23 Semi­detachable phrase
37 Modern link, for
parts? 45 Water park ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 51 Web-footed bird
short 
feature


-:-T-::-r="",.,...,:="l 24 Makes I ike 
52 Impatient41 Coast Guard 

-:.+.:+,;,.+.;:+.~ 25 Sticking point 46 Kind of yoga person's
vessel 
annoyance

1-:-1-:-881-::-1-..,;,. ..;,+.+.:+.:+=+..;.+=.-., 26 In, for now 
47 Real low life? 
42 Annual event 53 Tees off


-:+=+-:-ioo-=+=i'!!!"' 27 Talk in the 
with 7-Down 

service, 48 Like some 54 Sen. Stevens perhaps 43 Museum person blows and others 
-::+i"+.=+::::+:+=-+:::-~-::+~~::-i 29 Extra ...,_,~-.,;,.t..,..~liio 30 Bread box? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 31 Galley mark Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 
.-...t;-:+:rl-:::::+.::-+:::-1 32 Certain party 1"'!!"17:-11-:::-11-:-:11-;-1":71-:::-t-::-att i re Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
-:'-t+-t--:-1-::-i 33 Fantastic craft 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ..=...L.::..L::.J...;;:.:.J 35 Iron-fisted solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIHS I> AY: Prince Ilarry Winusor, 21; Tommy 
Lee Jones, 59; 01 iver Stone, 59; Amy Davidson, 26 

-
Happy Birthday: You'll be tom between two plans this year. Don't allow yourself to be a martyr. No one should expect you to give up an opponunity to fullill your life. dream. Question anyone who is sellish enough to stand in your way. Your numbers are 7, 20, 21, 22, 38, 41 

ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You are headed upward anu arc uclinitely more in control of your life. Suprort will be available. A business ranncrship will allow you greater creative lrecuom. •••• TAlJI{lJS (April 20-May 20): You'll have conllict over what you should be doing vs. what you want to do. If you organize well, you can take care of both needs. Put career objectives first so you can enjoy more pleasurable events ­without worry. •• GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): Porularity won't be an issue today. An opponunity may be too good to pass up even if it docs infringe on time spent with someone who depends on you. ••• •• CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Don't let someone handle an investment you should be taking care of yours~ If. Contracts, agreements, se!!lements, and collecting old debts can be done successfully today. ••• LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): The smallest personal concern will set you ofT today. Try not to get involved in a disruptive discussion. Spent! time nunuring what means most to you. •• . VIRGO (Aug. 23-SeiJI. 22): A chance to do something uillcrent will result in some fabulous· ideas regarding future prospects. A chance to connect with others with similar interests will guide you to new professional levels. • •• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Everything is going your way, so don't be lazy. Tak<: on more and you will impress someone who has a plan you want to he a pan of. Love is in a high cycle. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Torn between the emotional and the practical, you aren't likely to move in either direction fast. Look at your options and choos~ the route that will lead to publishing, travel, arl or music. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-I>ec. 21 ): Today is all about working alongside others. It's about cooperation, longevity and forming alliances that will stand the test of time. A team player is what is required. •••• CAPRICORN (I>ec. 22-.Jan. 19): Focus on the here and now. It's what you uo today that counts.. You have passion and drive, so strive to raise your profile and increase your popularity. Business trips will pay ofT. ••• AQlJARilJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Question your motives and those of anyone with whom you are intimately involved. Let go of the past and focus on th~ future. A change in lifestyle will be necessary if you want to head in a new direction. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Problems with colleagues or authority figures will arise if you confide in them. Keep your thoughts to yourself for now. Changes to your home or personal life may be necessary. ••• 
_.... 
outlook and a unique way of presenting yourself and your ideas will always set 
you apan from the crowd. 
Birthday Baby: You are talented and able.lo get what you want. An unusual 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfon, eugenia/as/. com for mnjidelllial consul/a/ions 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ __ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip_______ ., 
r 
I 
I 
THE OBSERVER 
I 
l t 
I PORTS
Friday, September 16, 2005 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Battle in the Big Apple 
Irish visit St. John's in early-season Big East competition 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Starting with a foe picked to win the conference isn't exactly a cakewalk beginning to the season. 
But the Irish are ready for as a challenge as they take on No. 10 St. John's. 
Notre Dame has already knocked off a top-1 0 oppo­nent this season with a win over then-No. 7 Southern Methodist. 
But in the history of the programs, the Irish have never won at St. John's. 
"We couldn't open with a harder game," coach Bobby Clark said. "I think you can count on one hand the num­

-
-ber of games that St. John's will have lost in the Big East in Queens in New York in the last 10 years." In the all-time series, the Red Storm leads the Irish 8­2-3, with last year's decision a 1-1 tie between the two top­10 teams. In 2003, Notre Dame won 
the Big East tournament title 


after defeating No. 4 St. John's. In 2004, it took the regular-season title. 
This year is crucial for the Notre Dame program, and this road trip is critical for starting the season off right. 
"This is a game that I think could really make this team 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

Team to host National Catholic competition 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Some matchups are simply unfair. 
The No. 7 Irish hosting 35 other schools, none of whom are ranked, in the National College Championships, is one such lop­sided arrangement. 
The last time Notre. Dame failed to win the National College Championships was 1994. 
But a 10-year run of domi­nance could be expected, as the meet is the brainchild of long­time Notre Dame men's cross country coach Joe Piane. It will feature schools of varying sizes. While there will be only one men's and one women's race, the teams have been divided into Division I and Small College competitions. 
"There will be one race," Piane said. "There will be an overall score, but then we pull out the Division II, Division III and NAIA schools and score them separately." · 

Because the meet features 35 teams and over 300 competitors, Piane said the key to the meet will be separating from the enor­mous pack early. 
"You need be a little more aggressive early, because if you get far behind, you're going to spend four-and-a-half miles try­ing to pass people," he said. 
Piane said that each one of the over 150 Catholic colleges and universities in the United States is invited to the meet every year in hopes of creating a true national Catholic championship. 
The Irish, ranked No. 7 by the United States Cross Country Coaches Association and fresh off a victory in the Valparaiso Invitational, will for the second straight week field a young line up. Varsity regulars Tim Moore, 
see HOST/page 30 
be of age," Clark said. "I The Irish have already trav­think this is a great opportu­eled, playing in the adidas/IU nity game for us, and I think Credit Union tournament in its one where I think we're Bloomington. After last week­capable of-I know we're end's Mike Berticelli capable, I don't just think Memorial Tournament at we're capable -but this is a Alumni Field, the Irish are wonderful opportunity for this team." see RED STORM/page 29 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish will face tests at Alumni 
Notre Dame kicks off Big East schedule with game against DePaul 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 

After a weekend of "sloppy play," the Irish (5-1-0) kick off their Big East schedule tonight at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field against conference newcomer DePaul (1-3-1 ). 
The game will be Notre Dame's first since returning with a split from the SCU Adidas Classic in Santa Clara, Calif. last weekend. The Irish lost the opener 2-1 to the host Broncos but bounced back with a 4-1 victory over Gonzaga Sunday, despite what Notre Dame head coach Randy Waldrum called a mediocre performance. 
"I wasn't real pleased with the performance against Gonzaga," he said. "I mean, you've got to be happy that we turned around after the loss and· gut a win, but I don't think it was nearly as sharp as it 
GOlf 
SMC \fOU.EYBAU

SMC SOCCER 
David Toms collapses 

Saint Mary's vs. 
Saint Mary's 3, 
with heart irregularities 
Concordia 2 

Alma 
during the 84 Lumber page 32 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Grit will be on the gridiron 
By JOE PIARULLI, JAY FITZPATIRCK and TIM KAISER Sports Writers 
For the Alumni and O'Neill interhall football teams, Sunday at 2 p.m. is the time when the questions are answered, the hits are delivered and practice pays off. It's game 
time. See Also 
"We're really 
excited about "Two big getting going," matchups Alumni captain
Ryan McGet-begin women's tigan said. interhall" Alumni will 
page27
field a team which has a fairly even distribution, with six or seven from each year [fresh­man to senior]. including a sen­ior quarterback, but will have to make up for the loss of its start­ing running back, who is out with a recently suffered broken leg. 
see RIVALRIES/page 29 

should be. We didn't have the the first two weekends of the mindset that we would come schedule en route to four wins, out and kill Gonzaga." including wins over then-No. 24 
But this weekend presents an Maryland and then-No. 13 opportunity for the Irish to Florida at the Inn at Saint regain the sharpness with Mary's Notre Dame Classic. which they played in the first Waldrum said that he wishes 
four games of the season. The Irish scored 27 goals in 
see TWO/page 30 
MLB-Al 
Yankees 9, Devil Rays 5 
Classic and is rushed to 
The team nearly 
New York slices

The Belles take on a 
the hospital. 
Boston's lead in the
missed the game after

conference foe in an 
getting lost in Illinos but 
American League East

inportant early-season 
won the match. 
to just 1.5 games.

match up. 
page 19
page 22
page 22
page 23 


WCROSS COUNTRY 
ND VOllEYBAll 

Notre Dame hosts 
The Irish travel to major meet and hopes 
Texas to face Katrina-to replicate past Irish 
battered LSU and success. 
Tulane in weekend action. 

page 26 page 26 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 16, 2005 
Irish nee4 to avoid early letdown 
The letdown. 
Known throughout the sports world for its ability to turn last week's Dr. Jekyll into this week's Mr. Hyde, the let­
down has t h e potential to devas­t a t e team s and ruin seasons. Like the 

unsightly Matt Puglisi
barnacle 
stuck on 
the cruise Associate 
liner of Sports Editor 
victory, the let­down quietly attaches itself to the end of any big win, waiting for the opportunity to rear its ugly head the fol­lowing week. 
And Saturday's win over rival and then-No. 3 Michigan in the Big !louse ­a location where the Irish hadn't won since Lou Holtz was at the helm in 1993 ­certainly qualifies as a big victory. The Irish earned their second-straight road victory over a defending con­ference champion. 
But as big as the 42-21 
· throttling of Pittsburgh at Heinz Field was in establish­ing the Irish as a remarkably different football team than years past -at least in terms of transforming a solid game plan into results on the field -the upset of the hated Wolverines in the Big House provides the ideal fuel for the following week's let­down fire. 

Indeed, while playing at home in front of 80,000 screaming Irish faithful can provide that extra spark that helps the players dig just a little deeper and carries the team to victory -all the hype surrounding the Notre Dame home opener can be distracting. 
Add the unexpected road victories by a new coach in Charlie Weis -the first one to open the season with two road victories since Knute Rockne in 1918 -and the accompanying vault from· unranked to No. 10 in the Associated Press poll, and the potential for distraction grows to unprecedented heights, a fact that wasn't lost on Weis. 
"First of all, Michigan State is good to start off with," Weis said during Sunday's press conference. "And if that isn't enough, then we have a problem. Then on top of it, now you don't have that 'Let's get on the bus and get out of here where we can focus everything.' Now you have all of your family and friends coming into the game. It could be a distrac­tion." 
And with the distraction­factor building, Weis knew 
Sunday was the time to tack­le the topic-. 
"I won't wait until Tuesday to bring it up, because Tuesday I want to be talking about game plan," Weis said. "I want to be talking about Michigan State's personnel. I want to be all football." 
Heading into Saturday's contest, the Spartans have won four straight games at Notre Dame Stadium and 11 overall -the highest total of any opponent. 
"First thing I did when I got on the bus on the way home was started doing some research to make sure I had the exact numbers [of the Notre Dame-Michigan State series]," Weis said. "Because I, like anyone else who knows the psychology of football, would realize that this would be a perfect opportunity for the guys to feel so good about them­selves, they forget to show up to play a team that's been beating them regularly that they have come here. " 
Recognizing the mental impact of the sobering stats, Weis wasted little time pre­senting the numbers to the team, choosing to do so at the beginning of Sunday's meeting before any talk of Notre Dame's big win in the Big House. 
"I think by giving them the cold, hard facts; 'Fellas, this is the way it is,' kind of slap them back to reality, and I think that's the most impor­tant thing that I could be doing this we.ek more than X's and O's," Weis said. "Make them understand the fact that we need to play our best game if we're going to beat Michigan State." 

If Weis can achieve the same level of success in keeping the Irish focused on the current week as he's had not only convincing players of their potential. but then translating th<~,t confidence into success on the field, Notre Dame should have lit­tle difficulty scraping the let­down parasite off the hull of the ship and continuing the smooth sailing of the 2005 
campaign. 
But, in the end, if the Irish don't come ready to play, they can't expect the home­town crowd to pull it out for them. 
"There's no more obvious, evident case than [the Michigan game] for our play­ers that if you don't go out and play well enough, it won't make a difference how many people are yelling," Weis said. "Whether it's 80,000 or eight, you can still end up losing the game if you didn't play well." 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd. edu 
game hype 

"There's nothing better in coaching than having players that are starting to gain some confidence. " 
Charlie Weis Irish head coach 
"This is your home stadium. You don't want sornebo.dy to come in and beat you at your own 

Ryan Harris
stadium." 
Irish tackle 

"It starts this weekend. This is our first home game of the season. So we just have to ·step up to the challenge. " 
"This one is key for us. We get to find out if we're worth a hoot or 
not., 



219 N. Front Street Niles, Ml 49120 269-684-2233 www. nilesriverf rontcafe. com 
**Located in downtown Niles 10 minutes from the University 
Accepting Reservations for 
Post-Game Dining 
Outdoor Dining: Outdoor Grill 
On the Weekends 
Live Entertainment: Some of the 
Best Blues, Jazz &Classic Rock 
in the area 

Great menu featuring gourmet 
Soups, Salads, Sandwiches, 
Pizzas & Baked Pastas 
Serving Micro-Brews, 24 Different 
Martinis, Espresso Drinks and the ·Cafe's own Specialty Drinks 
Art Gallery &Gift Shop 

Friday, September 16, 2005 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Tough, 1Zibby' style 
Strong safety Tom Zbikowski leads Irish defense with attitude and experience 

By PAT LEONARD 
Spom Wriror 
Tlw ollimsive playor in him just wouldn't shut up. Tom Zbikowski rH'ndml tho ball, and he nm~dnd it now. 
It had lwnn sinco high school that Zbikowski had run an oll"m1so, when lw playml quartnr­hack, sal"nty and rnturnnd kicks at Bull"alo Grovn lligh School in Bull'alo (;rovn, Ill. But lllln touch of tlw ball was all he wantl~d. 
NPVPr mind that he had alroady intercopted Michigan Stat1~ quartnrback Stephen HPavns to sot up the lirst Irish touchdown on Snpt. I H, 2004. 
On a routine Michigan Statn running play to tailback .Jason TPaguo, with the seorn tied 7-7, Zbikowski zippnd through the linP, Lon~ tho ball from Tnaguo's hands and holtnd 75 yards for tho Pnd zone beli1n~ PVPn Teagun rould say, "Who's that guy?" 
l·:wryono knows now. 

Tho 5-f"oot-11. 20H-pound strong saf"nty madn nino tacklns and intnrcnpt11d Miehigan quar­tnrbark Chad llnnnn at the goal lirw last Saturday. lin is tho most oxp1•rion1~nd dol"nnsivn hack in a sPcondary that, though narly in thn soason. sonms to havo made hug~~ stridns from a rough cam­paign last yoar. 
And to top it all oil", Zbikowski was named sperial teams cap­tain for this wnnk's game against the Spartans because of his con­tributions on punt n~turns. 
"Tommy is one of the real lead­nrs or our football team... del{m­sivo hacks eoach Bill Lewis said. "I don't imagine tlwre's anything that Tommy does that he doesn't do mrnpntitively." 
;\s Notrn Dame attempts to end Miehigan Statn's winning streak in South Bend, one of the "real leaders" of the Irish has a mes­sage to convey. 
"Tiwm coming in and winning li1ur straight in our plaee is real­ly not acceptable," Zbikowski said. "You can't let teams come 
into  ~our  place  and  win  at  
homn.  
And like that, "Zibby"  - as  

thny call him nowadays -has dnvelopnd a Knyshawn Johnson­Psqtrn attitude that says 'Throw mn tlw damn ball,' pnr the titln of the former Southern Cal rncniv1~r's book. Except Zbikowski doesn't say he wants the ball. 
lin just takes it. 
Zlbby the student 
Zbikowski's dassroorn is not always in a school building, with H.OOO other undnrgraduatns and tnxtbooks. llis classroom, and that of his teammates, is also the room whore lw watches film; whern coaches dissnct the past wm~k's gamo; where head mach­~~s show tape or mistakes, and mistakes only, in past years' loss­es. 
Irish !wad coach Charlie Weis shownd his squad similar lilm or Notre Dames' last four horne loss1~s to the Spartans this wenk. But. as Lnwis describes, Zbikowski has the toughnnss and ability to rnspond to surh motiva­tion and nncourage tnammales to do the same. 
"Tommy lrins to do everything tlw way hn's mached to do it," Lewis said. "lin's vnry easy to coach. 
"What is so important, and what I appreciate about him, is he takes and goes from the dass­room to the practiee field and can take things from inside I to the] outside. You talk about a gamn plan, Iandi he can go out on the field then and start to work on executing it." 
The strong safety's discipline and work ethic are contagious and evident. Though he redshirt­ed as a freshman and has only play.nd onn full sfmson for Notre Damn, Zbikowski gainnd the rep­utation as a conlident and expe­rienced player unusually quickly, simply because pnople noticed his style. 
"I h1's not a boisterous guy, but it's very easy for his teammates to sne what he's all about," Lewis said. "Because everything he does on the field he does full speed." 
That spend was fast enough to gain recognition as Gatorade Player of the Year in Illinois Zbikowski's senior. high school snason, when hn thrnw lor 1,3H2 yards and 11 touchdowns, rushnd for l,2H7 yards and 23 touchdowns, raeked up 41 tack­Ins and rnadn thrnn intnn~eptions. 
US;\ Today tabbed him as a l'irst-toam All-American. The Chicago Sun Timns labeled him the Chicago area player of the year. ;\nd Notrn Damn made him one of their top rncruits. 
Hight now, firth-year senior linebacker and defensive captain Brandon lloyte is already a leader on defense. But Zbikowski's mrnmand in the sec­ondary also distinctly benefits the younger players and the entire defense -he called the defense's practices before the Michigan game "sloppy." 
"It's not just his confidence," Weis said. "It's his understanding of playing." 
Zlbby the teacher 
Zbikowski eould have walked onto the practice field in the spring, turned to faee the quar­terback, looked to his left and right, and felt completely lost. 
lie was the only starter remaining in the defensive back­field, albeit one that surrendered too many passing yards and touchdowns through the air last 
1 
Notre Dame, the one team In the country to Tom Zbikowski, left, runs off Heinz Field after the Irish beat Pittsburgh 42-21 have two wins over top-25 teams. on Sept. 3. Zbikowski has been a leader for the Irish in the early part of 2005. 
season. Zbikowski instead saw 
the new season, with the new 
coaching staff, as an opportunity. 
"Whenever he sees something that I could possibly be doing better, he'll mention it," said starting free safety Chinedum Ndukwe. "That's just the kind of guy he is. He'll step up to say 'Maybe you need to take that one more step when you hit some­one' or 'Take that extra step when you're backpedaling.' 
"He knows what he's doing back there. lie has a good foot­ball mind." 
Ndukwe is not only new to the starting secondary. lie is new to defense altogether. The former wide receiver, who caught touch­downs from Brady Quinn at Dublin Coffman High School in Ohio, is still getting used to tack­ling rather than catching. 
But as Weis has observed through spring practice, fall practice and the early snason, the coach believes Zbikowski has had an obvious positive influence on less experienced players like Ndukwe. . 
"Somebody who's been out there and who's seen things hap­pen at full speed -changing every week -is different than someone who just goes through it in training camp," Weis said. "I think when you have that settling force that checks you in and out of the right coverages and adjusts formations !like Zbikowski does], it really takes some of the pressure off you that you have to be the sole adjuster, especially when it comes to the secondary." 
Zbikowski said he believes his role is to get his teammates ready on a week-to-week basis, much along the lines of his coaeh's mentality. They're on the same page, as teachers and as competitors. 
Zibby the player 
Football is his sport, sure. But Zbikowski is also a veteran boxer who takes hits as well as he gives them. 
He competed in the Golden Golves program beginning at age nine, compiling a 60-13 amateur 

MATI SMF'nRE'R! 
record and earning a national rank. He was also a Silver Gloves national finalist in 1998, '99 and 20<10. 
His multiple talents, within football and without, distinguish Zbikowski as an athlete and ­as Lnwis describes him-a <~om­petitor. Though the experience in the ring is completely separate from his efforts on the field, the strong safety found a correlation. 
"[Boxing and football] arc two different sports," Zbikowski said. "But I guess boxing has always helped me in all my aspects [of football]. When you're winning, you've got to know how to sur­vive without getting knocked out." 
Notre Dame finds itself in that exact predicament Saturday against a team that has had the Irish's number in Notre Dame Stadium. Despite coaching and win streaks and rebounds from 
by the numbers 
The number of consecutive times Michigan 
4 
State has won at Notre Dame Stadium. Purdue holds the record with five. 
1 0 2 
The number of rushing yards Irish running back Darius Walker is averaging through the first two games of the season. 
The number of points Michigan State has scored through their first two games. 
98 
63 2 
Notre Dame's winning percentage 
• against Michigan State in the history of both programs. 
The percentage of passes that MSU quarterback 
7 8 
Drew Stanton is completing, the nation's fourth best passing efficiency-rating. 
The number of total yards of offense Michigan State is averaging in its first two
592 
games. 
The last time Notre Dame started off 
2o o 2 
the season 3-0, something they hope to accomplish Saturday. 
unsuecnssful snasons, it takns attitudn to reverse trends. win games and prove a point. 
Enter Tom Zbikowski. 
"What IMichigan State has I been saying in the nwdia, they don't really have any fear wlwn they come in to play us," hn said. "But we've got to put fear in them." 
And as the Notrn Dame defense grows, on tho shoulders of a young man who stands under 6-fent tall, so will the abili­ties of a player who still has a long limn to improve -scary, isn't it? 
"I think as we go down the road, every week I'm going to raise the bar on Tommy and expect morn of him," Lewis said, "because I think he's got that kind of ability." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Friday, September 16, 2005 

page 4 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Notre Dame 
HEADT
Fighting Irish 
Record: 2-0 AP: 10 Coaches: 12 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 2005 Schedule 
Sept. 3  at Pittsburgh -W  
Sept.lO  at Michigan ­W  
Sept.l7  MICHIGAN ST.  
Sept.24  .at Washington  
Oct.Ol  
 
Oct. 15  usc  
Oct.22···  BYU  
Nov.5  TENNESSEE  
Nov.l2  NAVY  
Nov.l9  SYRACUSE  
Nov.26  at Stanford  


COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
Charlie Weis has done everything he's been asked  As Brady Quinn goes, so goes Notre Dame. Quinn  Darius Walker pmmded out 104 yards against the  Rhema McKnight is not· playing this week due to  
to do in his first year as Irish coach -win. His gameplan to start the game against Michigan  has been efficient behind center, and as a result the Irish offense has looked crisp. He has  Wolverines. Fullbacks Asaph Schwapp and Rashon Powers-Neal are both steady blockers. Look  an injury he suffered against Michigan. Quinn will need to look for Jeff Samardzija and Maurice  
was flawless. The Irish have looked sluggish in the second half of both wins,  thrown just one pick in two games, but the Michigan blitz rattled  for Powers-Neal to carry in goal-line situations. He scored three short-yardage  Stovall to pick up the slack. Tight end Anthony Fasano has eight catches  
however, and Weis will have to prevent a letdown.  him last week and led to several poor passes.  touchdowns two weeks ago against Pittsburgh.  to tie for the team lead with Darius Walker.  
John L. Smith is the 12th winningest coach in Division I-A with a career record of 125-72. He is 15-12 during his three years at the helm of Michigan State. Smith led Louisville to five straight bowl berths before coming to East Lansing.  Drew Stanton is currently fourth in the nation in passing efficiency while leading an offense ranked second in the country averaging 592 yards of total offense per game. Stanton enters his second year as the starter and is dangerous on his feet as well as with his arm.  Spartans linebacker Kalib Thornhill leads a defense giving up a sparse 68.5 rushing yards per game. Kent State and Hawaii both failed to rush for a touchdown. Michael Bazemore and Clifton Ryan are solid at the defensive end positions.  SirDarean Adams leads the team in tackles and joins Eric Smith as two big hitters in the defensive backfield. Spartan oppo­nents have thrown for an average of 268 yards per game and four total TDs. The loss of safety Jason Harmon and cornerback Roderick Maples hurts.  
Smith is one of the better coaches in the nation and will have Michigan State ready to play. But Weis has shown he is more than capable of handling the spotlight at Notre Dame, and his offensive mind will be too much for Smith and his less-talented Spartans.  The Irish offensive line isQuinn and Stanton will larger, more talented and both throw for a couple more sea~oned thantouchdowns and keep Michigan State's defense.their names on early,o\ , ' &<<a: ,, Walker is aching to break out and rush for 150mol\:5_..· yards or more after being Eooig~ . bottled up during most of but Quinn is too calm, the Michigan game. Looktoo talented and too for Powers-Neal to notchgood to allow the Irish to another touchdown. fall to the Spartans.  The absence of McKnight could really hurt the Irish. Spartan defensive backs Jaren Hayes and Smith are formidable and will slow down Notre Dame's passing attack. But ifSamardzija can keep making catches like he has in the first two games, ND will be fine.  


Charlie Wels 

Charlie Weis first season at Notre. Dame career record: 
2-0 
at Notre Dame: 
2-0 
against 
Michigan State: 0-0
head coach 

Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
I  D.j.Hord  WR  6-1  198  FR  
3  Darius Walker  RB  5-11  200  so  
4  Anthonf:tVema~lia  DB  6-3  221  so  
5  Rhema  cKnig t  WR  6-1  215  SR  
6  Ray Herring  DB  6-0  199  FR  
7  Darrin Bragg  WR  6-1  192  so  
8  junior Jabbie  RB  6-0  188  so  
9  Tom Zbikowski  DB  5-11  203  jR  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  6-4  231  jR  
11  David Grimes  WR  6-0  170  FR  
12  Marty Mooney  QB  6-2  207  SR  
13 14  ~~~~:~~?  QB QB  6-2 6-2  207 196  FR FR  
15  Leo Perrine  DB  6-0  186  so  
16  Rashon Powers-Neal  RB  6-3  238  SR  
17  Geoffrey Price  p  6-3  186  SR  
17  Dan Gorski  QB  6-3  196  FR  
18  Chinedum Ndukwe  DB  6-2  219  JR  
19  D.J. Fitzpatrick  KIP  6-2  206  SR  
20  Terrail Lambert  DB  5-11  188  so  
21  Maurice Stovall  WR  6-5  222  SR  
22  Ambrose Wooden  CB  5-11  197  jR  
23  Chase Anastasio  WR  6-2  203  JR  
23  W. David Williams  DB  5-10  170  so  
24  Brandon Erickson  WR  6-0  178  so  
25  Nate Schiccatano  DL  6-2  237  SR  
26  Wade lams  DB  5-9  188  so  
26  Travis Thomas  RB  6-0  215  JR  
27  David Bruton  DB  6-2  187  FR  
27  john Lyons  RB  6-1  205  JR  
28  Kyle McCarthy  DB  6-0  189  FR  
29  LaBrose Hedgemon  DB  5-9  190  jR  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  5-11  193  SR  
31  jake Carney  DB  6-0  187  SR  
32  Jeff jenkins  RB  6-0  232  SR  
32  Alvin Reynolds  DB  5-10  180  so  
33  Justin Hoskins  RB  5-10  186  so  
34  Tommie Lee  DB  6-2  200  jR  
35  Ashley McConnell  RB  6-0  247  jR  
35  Ttm Kenney  DB  6-0  180  jR  
36  Brandon Harris  DB  6-0  198  SR  
37  junior Jabbie  DB  5-11  190  FR  
37  Matt Mitchell  DB  5-8  187  SR  
38  Nick Possley  WR  6-1  183  so  
39  Brandon Hoyte  LB  6-0  236  SR  
40  Maurice Crum, Jr.  LB  6-0  220  so  
41  "Scott Smith  LB  6-3  234  FR  
42  Kevin Washington  LB  6-1  231  FR  
43  Anthon~ Salvador  LB  6-2  233  SR  
44 45  ~!:f~ioi~wapp  RB K  6-0 5-10  250 183  FR JR  
45  Rich Whitney  DB  6-2  213  jR  
46 47  Co'&;Mrt'tsMit ell omas  LB LB  6-1 6-3  234 240  SR jR  
48  Steve Quinn  LB  6-2  220  jR  
49  Matt Augustyn  FB  6-3  220  JR  
50  Dan Santucet  OL  6-4  290  SR  
52  joe Brockington  LB  6-1  212  jR  
53  joseph Boland  LB  6-2  242  SR  
54  David Fitzgerald  OL  6-4  293  SR  
57  Nick Borseti  LB  6-4  238  jR  
57 58  ~d~f~;~dahenson  DL LB  6-2 6-1  252 220  JR so  
59  james Bent  OL  6-2  265  SR  
60  Casey Cullen  DL  6-1  238  JR  
61  J.J. Jansen  LS  6-3  242  so  
62  Scott Raridon  OL  6-7  304  SR  
63  Jeff Tisak  OL  6-3  305  FR  
66  Derek Landri  DL  6-3  263  SR  
68  ~an Harris  OL  6-5  288  JR  
69  eiiKennedili_  DL  5-11  260  SR  
71  James Bone ·  OL  6-5  280  SR  
72  Paul Duncan  OL  6-7  292  FR  
73  Mark LeVoir  OL  6-7  311  SR  
74  Dan Stevenson  OL  6-6  292  SR  
75  Chris Frome  DL  6-5  ,268  SR  
76  Bob Morton  OL  6-4  292  SR  
77  Michael Turkovich  OL  6-6  290  FR  
78  John Sullivan  OL  6-4  298  JR  
79  Brian Mattes  OL  6-6  285  SR  
81  Rob Woods  WR  6-2  208  SR  
82  Matt Shelton  WR  6-0  172  SR  
83  Jeff Samardzija  WR  6-5  216  JR  
84  Michael O'Hara  WR  5-10  180  SR  
85 85  ~~eJ:¥!k~co  TE TE  6-4 6-5  253 245  FR so  
87  Marcus Freeman  TE  6-3  245  SR  
88  Anthony Fasano  TE  6-5  255  SR  
89  John Carlson  TE  6-5  255  SR  
90  Brian Beidatsch  DL  6-3  294  SR  
91  Craig Cardillo  K  6-0  174  JR  
92  Derrell Hand  DL  6-3  301  FR  
93  Dan Chervanick  DL  6-1  259  SR  
94  Justin Brown  DL  6-3  247  so  
95  Victor Abiamiri  DL  6-4 ..  260  JR  
96 96  ~~~.:~nkes  K DL  6-0 6-2  195 267  JR FR  
98  Trevor Laws  DL  6-1  293  JR  
99  Ronald Talley  DL  6-4  261  so  








FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24
Pat Leonard 
Michigan State 21
Managing Editor 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 Michigan State 21
Hoegarden 
AME 

Friday, September 16, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 5 

Michigan State Spartans

HEAD 
Record: 2-0 AP: NRMichigan State Spartans Coaches: NR 
MICHIGAN STATE 2005 Schedule  
Sept. 3 KENT STATE -W Sept. 10 HAWAII-W Sept. 17 at Notre Dame Sept. 24 at Illinois Oct. 1 MICHIGAN Oct. 15 at Ohio State Oct. 22 NORTHWESTERN Oct. 29 INDIANA Nov. 5 at Purdue Nov. 12 at Minnesota Nov. 19 PENN STATE  

John l. Smith third season at Michigan State career record: 
123-72 
at Michigan State: 
13-12 
against Notre Dame: 2-0 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 2 Diego Oguendo WR 5-9 178 FR 3 Kyle Brown WR 6-\ 210 SR 4 Carl Grimes WR 5-9 171 I'R 5 Drew Stanton QB 6-3 222 jR 6 Matt Trannon WR 6-6 227 SR 7 Brian Hoyer QB 6-2 204 FR R Ted Tounc CB 5-8 173 FR 8 Brandon Fields p 6-6 230 ]R 9 Demond Williams DB 5-9 174 JR 10 Aaron Alexander WR 6-5 206 SR II johnGoss K 6-3 21H JR 12 Oay Charles QB 6-\ 190 FR 12 Ashton Williams CB 5-11 IH9 SR 
CB 5-10 181 so
i~ &~~~n~~~atale QB 6-\ 185 I'R 14 Cole Malatinsky s 6-0 201 SR IS Kerry RL'ed WR 6-2 198 )R 16 john Van Dam QB 6-3 217 so 16 Andrew Pendy s 6-1 222 FR 17 David Stanton DL 6-3 291 jR 17 Blair White WR 6-2 192 FR 18 Terry Love WR 5-11 173 so 18 Brandon Denson WR 5-11 195 FR 19 Irving Campbell CB 5-11 1HO so 20 Ashley Beaudouin s (,.{] 218 s 20 jason Teague RB 5-9 193 SR 2\ Brett Kahn RB 5-9 171 so 21 Otis Wiley DB 6-2 185 FR 22 Kyle Rowley 5 5-!0 197 FR 26 Kyle Mayer K 6-1 210 jR 26 Tom Dance s 6-1 205 FR 27 Sir Darean Adams CB 6-2 222 so 28 Mike Bell s 5-ll 189 so 29 Greg Cooper s 5-11 189 JR 30 William McElroy CB 5-11 170 FR 30 jehuu Caulcrick RB (,.{] 245 so 32 jerramy Scott WR 5-10 186 ]R 33 Dan Fortener DB 6-1 184 FR 35 Kicl Beltinck DB 5-9 200 jR 36 EricSmith s 6-1 202 SR 37 Ross Weaver DB 6-1 196 FR 38 Cole Corey s 5-10 194 so 39 )avon Ringer RB \95 FR 

SPARTANS RUSHING SPARTANS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
39 Jelani Nantambu DB i~ 178 FR 40 Michael Bazemore DE 6-3 270 SR 

"The Irish line-knockedNotre Damf'i is giving up The punt coverage team Notre Dame should be 
down eight passes last
an average of 108.5 

excelled last week by confident after two 
41 David Herron Jr. LB 6-\ 246 SR 
~2 Rob Tabatchnick LB 5-11 209 so
z

week, the most since theyards per game on the 
keeping Michigan 
impressive road victories. 
~ 3 Kaleb Thornhill LB 6-1 240 so
0 
44 A.j. Jimmerson RB 5-\0 195 FR

2002 Florida State game. 
ground. Brian Beidatsch returner Steve Breaston Finally playing at home 

-t 
45 Andrew Hawken LB 6-2 224 FR

Tom Zbikowski has twoand Derek Landri each in check, preventing him . should help the Irish and 
::a 
47 Brandon Long LB 6-4 230 FR 
ITI 
48 Seth Mitchell LB 6-2 255 JR

interceptions so far this
have a tackle for loss 

from breaking a big 
make them more at ease. 
48 Steven Juarez LB 6-1 225 JR
c 51 Derrick Johnson LB 5-9 238 so

season, and cornerbackswhile Trevor Laws and 
play. Zbikowski looks 
The student body is very 
51 Chris Morris c 6-4 305 SR

Ambrose Wooden and
Victor Abiamiri helped 

dangerous as a punt 
optimistic and should 
l> 
52 Eric Andino LB 6-4 232 so 53 Adam Decker LB 6-2 235 FR

Mike Hichardson have 
s:
keep Michigan's potent 

returner. Fitzpatrick's make Notre Dame 
54 jeff McPherson LB 6-1 228 FR
ITI

broken up a total of two 
54 John Masters c 6-4 280 so 56 Brian Bury SN 6-0 244 JR 
running attack quiet last field goal last week was Stadium as loud as it has 

passes.
Saturday. 

wobbly -but good. 
been in several seasons. 
57 Rocco Cironi OL 6-6 298 FR 58 Reggie Graham DL 6-4 205 FR 59 Marcus Calverley LB 5-11 233 FR OL 6-5 302 JR 
~ ~1k.~;~~~e OL 6-4 278 FR

Kicker Dave Haymer, the Michigan State is comingTwenty nine of Michigan 
61 Tramonte Pointer DT 5-10 304 so 62 Derrick Outlaw DE 6-3 251 so 

Stanton has plenty of 
Spartans all-time leader in off two blowout wins over
State's 60 first downs 

options in this offense. 
63 Devin Pritchett LB 6-2 249 so 
64 Brendan Moss OG 6-6 269 FR 
-

points, field goals and Kent State and Hawaii.
have eome on the ground Kyle Brown has nabbed 

(') 
65 joel Nitchman OL 6-3 28\ FR

Then again, it's Kentextra points, is gone.
and so have eight of the 
%

12 catches for 133 yards 
66 Mike Gyetval OT 6-7 307 so 67 john Mulroy OT 6-5 281 FR

Brandon Fields averages State and Hawaii. But the Spartans' touchdowns. 
Ci)

this season. Terry Love 
68 Tom Kaczmarek OT 6-5 30~ FR 70 joe Toth DT 6-2 292 so 71 Gordon Niebyiski OG 6-3 312 SR 

44.4 yards per punt and Spartans haven't lost atJehuu Caulcrick ranks 
l>

is averaging 20.5 yards 
z

also handles kick-off 
Notre Dame Stadium17th nationally with per reception from the 
en 
72 Stefon Wheeler OT 6-5 330 SR 73 Roland Martin OG 6-5 318 FR

duties. Brown averages 21 since 1995 and seem to114.5 yards per game. 
receiver spot, and 
; 
74 KyleCook OG 6-3 295 JR 
75 Pete Clifford OT 6-7 327 so

yards per punt return 
always play their bestCenter Chris Morris is 
Jerramy Scott has 
76 Mike Schmeding OL 6-8 293 FR

while three players rotate game of the year against
one or three returning 

scored two touchdowns 
~ 
77 Daniel Zynn OG 6-2 321 jR 79 jesse Miller OT 6-6 3\1 FR
ITI

at kick returner. 
the Irish. 
offensive line starters. 

from the slot position. 
80 Kellen Davis TE 6-6 241 so 81 Dwayne Holmes TE (,.{] 254 FR 82 Ryan Allison WR 6-3 207 so 83 Jamar jones TE 6-3 225 so H4 Deon Curry WR 6-1 209 FR

Notre Dame's renewal
Caulcrick is a dangerous 

Stanton might be the best 
85 joshua Kaltsas TE 6-2 221 FR H6 jeremy McGinnis WR 5-1\ 172 FR

Michigan State hasn't 
under Weis is the talk ofrunm~r and will help the 
passe~ in the Big Ten and 
faced much of a test this 
87 Kyle Sackrider TE 6-2 254 so

the college football WOrld. 

88 Craig McGovern TE 6-3 267 FR
Spartans control the 

should be excited to play a year with only a handful of 
89 Ryan Woods TE 6-4 259 SR

That. could be a prb'blemclock. However, without young Irish secondary'uniL 
91 Travis Willard TE 6-2 228 FR DE 6-2 302 JR 

kick returns to work with. 
Sat~day. U' the I.risb read
suspended running back 

Though Zbikowski and 
Zbikowski has the ability 
~~ ~v~0s:J~n DE 6-5 265 so

their press clippings .wore 
94 jonal Saint-Die DL 6-1 260 JR
.Jason Teague, the Wooden played we,P at 

to put points on the board 
95 Justin Kershaw DE 6-4 253 FR

than their playbook,Spartans won't be able Michigan. if the defensive in a hurry with a punt 
96 Domata Peko DT 6-2 320 SR 
97 Charlie Rewold t DT 6-2 301 so

Michigan State will walk
line doesn't put pres~ureto withstand the run­
return. If he can break one 
98 Bobby jones DT 6-4 299 jR

out of Notre :Damestopping ability of Laws, on Stanton, he could Jight 
99 Brandon McKinney DT 6-3 320 SR

big, the home crowd will Stadium with its fifth
Landri, Abiamiri and 

up the Irish just as he did 
come alive and make a Frome. 
strai~win in South.Bend.
Kent State and Hawaii. 
Spartan win difficult. 
,<---· 


Mike Gllloon 
Sports Editor 


Michigan State has been a thorn in Notre 
As impressive as Michigan State has looked Dame's side for years. Weis will tum this flaw beating up on bottom-feeders Hawaii and into 1m advantagl\ and the Irish will be fired up Kent State by a combined score of 91-28 the to stop the Spartans' Notre Dame Stadium win first two weeks of the season, reality returns 
Irish

streak. Drew Stanton has trouble facing a this weekend. If the Irish can effectively defense not named "Hawaii," and Darius Walker adjust to Spartan quarterback Drew Stanton, busl"i out with a 200-yard game. the game will be over shortly after it starts. 
experts

ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 Michigan State 10 Michigan State 16 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 16, 2005 
Sizing up the Irish and the Spartans 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 

NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE 
vs 

MICHIGAN STATE'S DEFENSE 
~61
. 
~ 

punt return yards gained L_ 42/ 
punt return yards allowed -r---------'-­
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 

total points scored total points allowed Notre Dame yards penalized 

Michigan yards penalized 


MICHIGAN STATE'S OFFENSE 
vs 

NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 



NOTRE DAME 


SECONDARY 
Notre Dame has done a good job against the pass so far this season, shutting down the passing games of Tyler Palko and Chad Henne in its first two games of the season. 



The Irish have allowed 443 yards passing, making two interceptions. This week, Notre Dame has to deal with a Michigan State team that has had success moving the ball through the air. 

Tom Zbikowski, above, will need to continue to come up with big stops to slow down the pace of red­hot Drew Stanton. 

MICHIGAN STATE 
QUARTERBACK 
Drew Stanton has been everything Michigan State has hoped for thus far in 2005. . 
He has thrown for 632 yards and helped the Spartans put up 92 points in their two games this season. He runs a good play action, and his ability to throw on the run makes him dangerous. 
This week will be a good test for Stanton. His big games this year have come against against Kent State and Hawaii. Stanton will need to find a way to duplicate those performances against a tougher Irish defense. 

Did you work for The Observer? 
The Observer will be celebrating its 40th Anniversary with a reunion during the weekend of the Blue 8: Gold Game this spring. We would love for you to attend. 
Please contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu for more information. 
.. 
~ 
Friday, September 16, 2005 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Crum living up to name, Irish expectations 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sp"rr-' Wrircr 
Irish lirwbaeknr Maurien Crum .Jr. is a first-ynar-startor, but the way hn plays raroly roflncts his youth. 
"Wirnn I look ovnr to him. it's just trust that hn's going to make thP play," snnior linnbaeker Con•y Mays said. "It's not that 1m's young or anything likn that. Wn rPally don't look at him likn lhaL liP has to step up." 
And step up lw has. Crum has madP tPn tacklns in two ganws at Llw nPw Apadrn lirwbaeker spot and forcPd a fumbiP against Mi('higan last wnPk. Tlw h-f'ool sophomorn, dnspitP having playnd only two ganws in his eoi­IPgP e<trP•~r. doPsn 't gnt llustnmd Pasily. 
"I wPnl through Llw first gamn jiti.Prs, playing in tlw Michigan gam!', so now it's timn to play," C:rum said. "I know my role. I know my rnsponsibility. I just haw to stPp up and fullill it." 
(:rum is playing alongside two lifth-ynar s1n1iors -Mays and Brandon lfoytn. Mays said that liu· Crum, stnpping into thn spot­light aftnr rndshirting as a fresh­man was nol a big deal. 
"Tlwro's not rnueh of a transi­tion bm:ausn lw's so comfortabh~ with it." Mays said. "lie's not rwrvous about it. lie's not forget­ting his dwcks or anything. Hnally it's rather easy. Some pno­pln ran como into eollegn football and lit right in and never miss a bnat." 
Crum grew up with football. 

Tho son of' Miami All-American fall camp. And !has! really done linebaekor Maurice Crum Sr. just a nice job adapting." said being raised with football Crum, an all-state selection•in around him has helped him high school, knows he still has become the player he is today. some things to work on in the Crum and his father would rare occasions when his inexpn­watch ganw tapes of' him in high rience shows. school, analyzing "At times, you thn tape and cri­can see that I'm tiquing his play. "/ know my role, I still young," ho 
"I've boon said. "Sometimes
.know my
around l'ootball l'or .!tho eoachosl point
responsibility. I just
a long timn so that out t.o me but maybn that's why l have to step up they also point out lnarnnd so quick­highlights, bright
and fulfill it. " 
ly," Cru m said. spots." "We'd watch my And surrounded 
Maurice Crum Jr.
high school tapn by lloyte and and his collngn Irish linebacker Mays. Crum is 
tape and rompare tlw two. So l'ar, I haven't had as many big plays as him. But I got a couple more ynars." 
Tho oldnr Crum, who playod outsidE~ linobacker when he led Miami in tackles l'or three straight yoars, still watdws his son play. 
"Wiwn he watches the game, lw has a pon and paper. so he can gradn me," Crum said. "Aftnr thn game I call him and he lnts me know what l do wrong." 
Even with his dad making sure lw dons nvnrything right, Crum's machos havn bmm pleased with what tlwy've soon so far, starting with April's Bluo and Gold game, when lw rneorded threo tackles. 
"lie's a rndshirt freshman that's progressed well," defen­sivo coordinator and linebackers coach Hick Minter said. "He took advantage of opportunities in the spring time, carried it over to the summer workouts and into the between two expe­
rienced players who look out for him, all while oxpecting him to stop up on the lield. 
"Everybody's accepted me." Crum said. "They all look after me, I will say that. So I know they're looking aftnr me as kind of the youngin'. 
"! take it as a compliment, that they respeet me in that way, and I just try to live up to it. I just want to do my job." 
Saturday's game against Michigan State will be another "first" for the Hiverviow, Fla., native, as he will run out of the tunnel at Notre Dame Stadium as a starter. 
"That's going to be exciting," he said. "I've kinda dreamed about that, and I'm waiting for that. So that will be an exciting moment." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Stanton standing tall in Spartan backfield 
offense. These performances tho eonferencn in total have put Michigan State No. 2 offense, whieh worries Weis. nationally in total offense. ''I'll tell you what. Every 
Stanton did not start in last time Stanton hands off and season's 31-24 loss to Notre starts to roll out, that eon­Dame, a duty fell on the grad­corns me," Weis said. "llo uated Stephen does a pretty Reaves. But good job of ball Stanton did 'Ttl tell you what. faking after he enter the game hands the ball
Every time Stanton 

eventually and off. That's one
hands offand

went 8-for-12 of our concerns and led the starts to roll out, because he's so Spartans with athletic, you
that concerns me. " 

112 yards always have to through the air. be concerned Last week he Charlie Wels with him pulling torched the Irish coach thn ball down, 
Rainbows, going 21-of-36 for 300 yards and three touchdowns. That was the third career 300-yard passing game for the junior from Harrison Hills High School in Michigan, where he was a consensus top-20 quarterback recruit in 2001. 
Irish cornerback Ambrose Wooden agreed with his coaches' respect and concern for Stanton's ability to make plays both in and out of the pocket. 
"He's a great player, a great all-around quarterback," Wooden said. "He can beat you here, there. He's an agile, do-it-all type guy. You've just got to be prepared for him." 
Stanton started seven games in 2004 and threw for an average of 160 yards per game while also ranking eighth in the Big Ten with 
68.7 average rushing yards. This combination propelled him to a third-place finish in 
coming down 
the linn of scrimmage and doing that. Thero's a lot of things I'm worried about with that offense. That's just one of many." 
Michigan quarterback Chad Henne had 223 yards on 1<J­of-44 passing with one touch­down during th11 17-10 Notrn Dame win last wenk. Thn Irish defense rattled llnnnn into one fumble and one intnreeption. 
With Stanton's ability to make plays with both his feet and his arm, Weis wishes Michigan State coach .John L. Smith would only utilize onn • side of his talent. 
"We prepare for IStanton's rushing abilityI." We is said. "To be honost with you, that kid, the way he throws the ball, I'd do all I could not to get him hurt." 
Contact Mike GiUoon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


The Michigan State quarterback has been efficient this season 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 

Drew Stanton ranked No. 10 in the Big Ten last season in passing yards per game. 
So it's not a stretch to say the Michigan State quarter­back has exceeded expecta­tions with his success through two games in 2005. 
Stanton has completed 78.2 percent (43-for-55) of his passes for 598 yards this sea­son, with five touchdowns and just one interception. He ranks fourth in the nation in passing efficiency. 
Though these staggering statistics came at home against perennial doormats Kent State and Hawaii, Irish coach Charlie Weis is still wary of the quarterback's ability to score on Notre Dame's defense. 
"I think [Stanton) is some­thing special," We is said. "Not only is he one of their captains, but he can do it all. Look at last week ... He's a very special player." 
Stanton led a Spartan offense that racked up 685 yards of total offense in its season-opener against Kent State, the second-most in pro­gram history. 
Michigan State also opened up a 35-0 lead on Hawaii and tallied 499 yards of total 
Friday, September 16, 2005

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

... 

SMAU&COKE SALAD IRISH SPECIAL EXTRA LARGE en
= 

&I LARGE &COKE TWO LARGE LATE NIGHT SPECIAL WINGS z..
-
-

• 
1'1 
BUILD YOUR OWN EXTRAS
-
w !I One Topping 7.99 11.99 13.99 
wings breadsticks =... 
buffalo or barbeque
Additional Topping1.00 1.50 1.75 cheesesticks :r 
• 
CD

u= chicken strips 
Coca-Cola®
.. 

salads Products
a BETTER TOPPINGS 
c
u 

Ham Beef Green Peppers
:.: 

Pepperoni Anchovies Jalapeno Peppers
u == 
:a Spicy Italian Extra Cheese Banana Peppers 1'1
PAPA PREDICTS
Sausage Ill
..:1 Mushrooms Pineapple 
Notre UatMe ~4
Sausagea Onions GriJied Chicken -z

Michigatt 2~
a Bacon 

Black Olives Fresh Sliced 1'1 Tomatoes Tomatoes en
a CD ... 



. . . . . . . .. 
' 
..... 




