
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 6 TUESDAY, AUGUST 30,2005 

Hurricane slams into New Orleans 

N 0 students worry about loved ones in path of violent storm 
By KATIE PERRY Ntws Wrilt'r 
As thn Big Easy bracnd Monday !ill' Katrina -tho Catngory 4 hur­riearw purportnd to be tlw most c·atastrophic~ cwnnt to strikn tho rngion in dneadns -wary Nnw OriPans nativPs of Notrc> llanw 
See Also

and Saint M a ,. y · s "Weaker Katrina 
I' x p r n s s n d floors New gravn eonenrn 
Orleans"

ftll' [ov!'d OIWS hack homo. page 5 
Toutnd in a National Weather Serviee stato­mnnl. IL'i a "potnntially eatastroph­i<: and lil'n-thrnatoning" event, llurrieann Katrina had a[rp,ady demonstrated its violenco by Thursday -claiming scwnn lives in Florida as a morn Category I storm. 
That samn statnmcmt warnnd of thn storm's ability to obliterate mohiln homes and other "poorly­c:onstructnd dwellings." Morn sta­ble buildings were also labeled as at-risk areas as the National Wnathnr Snrvien warned residents of' Now Orleans that Katrina also had thP eapadty to eausc~ serious damage to even wnll-built struc­tures. 
Keeping in touch 
Senior Brandon Hall -who livns within thn New Orleans city limiL'i -said he h<L'i spoken to his family and friends, but with dilli­eulty. Tied up phonn lines have made communication diflicult. he said. 
''l'vn spoken with family and friends," he said. "Some are AP 
Marshall Martin, right, passes three-month-old Christopher see STORM/page 4 Collins to a fire officer during evacuations in.New Orleans. 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group introduces new-members, vision 

PAMElA LOCKE/The Observer Uzzle Shappell, left, and Dave Baron speak to members of the Council of Representatives Monday night. 
Baron says COR will operate 'efficiently' 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
Critics of student govern­ment. take note. If s-tudent body president Dave Baron has it his way, the Council of Hepresentatives' keyword will be "efficiency." 
"COR is the centerpiece of the student union," Baron told representatives Monday. "This is an entirely open agenda sort of meet­ing. If you guys don't have stuff to talk about, we won't meet." 

The group, which brings together the leaders of dif­ferent organizations on campus, kicked off its year by bringing new members into the discussion. 
Senior Katie Crossin was approved without opposition as the Mendoza College of Business' Student Hoprn­sontative on thn Academic Couneil. 
Baron explained that four students. one from each col­lege, form the Aeademic Council. One is designated as the Academic Delegate 

see COR/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
GayND student honored 

Sophomore is one of 19 national finalists 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer. 
Thnrn's a ccdnbdty of sorts on Notrn Damn's campus. 
IIn is fnaturc~d in Tinw maga­zinn next month and is tlw subject of a feature~ story in a major metropolitan newspa­per. 
llis namn is Brott .Janecek. lin's a sophomorn. lin's gay. And he just recc~ivml a presti­gious -and large -scholar­ship from The Point Found­ation, a national organization aimed at providing support for stud(ints who havn bnnn mar­ginalized becausn of their sex­ual orientation. 
The scholarship is unprece­dented at Notre Danw ­recently ranked the No. 2 col­lege in the country in Tho Princtnon Heviow's "Aitnr­native Lifestyles Not an Alternativn" catngory, al'tor two years at No. 1. 
.Janecek, along with tho IIJ other gay finalists, was snleet­ed from a pool or morn than 2,000 applicants. Tho applica­tion process was competitive and lengthy, .Janncnk said. 
lie wrote throe essays. answered questions ovnr tlw phone and flew to San Francisco to sit. bol'ore the Point Foundation's Board of Trustees before !)(ling awardnd the scholarship in narly May. 
"Tho scholarship is about being an activist." .Janncok said. ''I'm hnre. I'm gay. And poople are recognizing nw for my leadorship and aeadnmic achievements and for what 
see STUDENT/page 9 


New First Year of Studies dean comes from experience 
Hugh Page, Jr. replaces Eileen Kolman as chief leader ofthe University's award-winning program for freshman students 
By JANICE FLYNN 
News Writer 
An J·:piscopal priest. A har­monica playPr and a blues lyri­cist. A translator of llebrow texts. An assistant mon's tennis coach. A pont, a theologian-and martial arts black boiL 
And now dean of the First Year of' Studies. 
llugh Page, Jr., a poised man of varind inturests, steps into his lirst year of overseeing the program that guides freshman through their first Notre Dame ar.ademic year. · 
Page said he feels fortunate to have been chosen and bnlinvns the position fits his personal aspirations as an edu­eator. 
"I see myself as a scholar, as a teacher and as an adminis­trator, and if there is a place within the University where scmior administrators feel that I can be of service, then I'm more than willing," he said. 
Page came to Notre Dame in 1992 to teach in the theology department. In 1999, he was appointed the direetor of the African and African-American Studies program, and in 2002 he became an associate dean for undergraduate studies in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Page replaces Eileen Kolman, who served as dean since 1990. llis appointment rounds out the list of new senior administra­tors that includes University president and provost. 
Page saw firsthand the signif­icance of the program -from the advisors' dedication to the students' potential -during the summer when he worked with the staff to build student schedulns. 
"Heading through the files. you hear the stories that indi­vidual first year students tell about their own academic or personal growth," he said. "They come with such incredi­
see DEAN/page 8 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Golden 
•


senior year 
Watching the freshmen as they walked around eampus for tho past week or so -they looked a bit seared the first few days, then a bit morn confident as they settled into campus life over the week­end I was reminded less of Nicole Zook how I felt my first few weeks on earn­
Associate 
pus and more of 

news editor
how while this is a new beginning for some students, it is the beginning of an end for the seniors. 
As the freshmen are looking forward to an amazing four years here, we just have one precious year of life in our bub­ble left before we are harshly thrust into the real world. 
Luckily for us. before we have to face that reality, we are blessed with what I'm told may be the most amazing year of our lives -senior year, a title that should be not only capitalized but capi­talized on. Senior year is a magical time, a year full of firsts, last firsts and very 
lasl<>. 

For me in particular, senior year shines ahead of me like a bright promise. Why? Because I had a very special birth­day this summer that allows me to enter any of South Bend's fine establishments legally. 
This leaves me in a somewhat unusual situation ___:__ I'm that senior who has never been to the South Bend bars. For the past three years, I have been desig~ nated driving those lucky ducks of legal age to Heartland, Fiddler's, RumRunners, State and Finnegan's, then sadly sighing, shifting and heading back to my dorm. 
I'm even that extremely rare senior who never got to sail on the legendary Boat. Oh, once last year when I took about 15 people there in the back of a pickup truck, I got up those long stairs and got a peek inside, but my ship could­n't sail any further. 
But I heard the stories. Fantastic tales of a magical senior year -of penny pitchers, dancing all night, ridiculous pick-up lines and somewhat shady but wonderful bars where everyone could link arms and sing my favorite Bon Jovi, Def Leppard and Billy Joel tunes before heading home in a haze of happiness .. Tales of a particular drink at the Backer that could prevent you from ever even making it home at all. And most of all, tales of the good times at Corby's, where the Woodchuck flows freely and I could never get in. 
But now ... now all these places lay before me like a beacon of light shining hope into my very own senior year. I want to utilize the little time I have left here -and, of course, my ID -to the best of my ability. The promise of senior year leads me to believe that my last football season will be an amazing one, that I will spend many hilarious nights with my friends making memories and that the establishments of South Bend will live up to the legends. · 
It leads me to believe that in two short semesters, I will look back and wonder where the time went. That this will in fact be the best year of college yet. That in the end, these are the days I will remember for the rest of my life. 
Senior year glitters ahmid of me, and as much as I know I won't want it to be over, I sure can't wait to get it started. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook892 8@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
Tuesday, August 30, 2005
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ATHLETIC FACILITY DO YOU FREQUENT? 



Ken Kuo  Meghan Paladino  Ryan Bravo  
freshman Kennan  sophomore Pangborn  junior Fisher  
"Rolfs.,,  'Tve been to the Rock. No, wait, I live by the Rock.,,  "South Dining Hall.,,  



mean, I was in my auntie's car, in the middle of all of this traffic and we were evacuating from a hurri­cane. Besides, my due date wasn't until the beginning of September." 
Doucett's aunt, Anna Jones, called family mem­bers in other ears, and they called 911. Jones put on her emergency flashers and tried to get into the break­down lane. 
"She kept saying that the baby was coming and to hurry, but I couldn't go any­where," Jones said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Bettina Patena  Pat Carey  Mike Hopkinson  
sophomore Farley  freshman Zahm  freshman Zahm  
"Rolfs. Fm too lazy to walk anywhere else.,,  "I use the sam·e facilities as all the BP girls.,,  "North Quad. I get a great workout  


running from NDSP.,, 
IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame's annual Activities Night will take place today at 7 p.m. to 9 in the JACC. All students are welcome to attend. 
The first of six lectures on business ethics this fall at Notre Dame will take place Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. It is entitled "Business Schools are Partially to Blame for the Corporate Ethics Scandals: Multiple Viewpoints" and will feature several Notre Dame faculty members. 
NO Cinema will host the criti­cally acclaimed documentary "MurderbaU," about quad rugby 

. Team USA's bid in the 2004 Paralympics, in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Centers Browning Cinema Friday and Saturday nights at 7 and 10 p.m. Tickets are $5 for faculty and staff and $3 for all students. 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer team will face off against Florida Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will play Texas at 5 p.m. on Saturday as part of the Shamrock Invitational in the Joyce Center. 
An exhibit entitled. Two Italian Hardbodies: Sports Cars Clad by Scaglietti and Frua will be on display in the Snite Museum of Art Entrance Atrium Gallery until Sept. 18. The exhibit fea­tures a 1958 Ferrari and a 1955 Maserati. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 
~

~ 
HIGH 81 HIGH 
79 

LOW 58 LOW 
57 


MATTHEW SMEDBERGrThe Observer From left to right, Sophie Alexandrou, Emmanuel Sifakis, Luis Montestruque and Alexandria Garripoli relax .at the welcome back picnic for international students Monday. Notre Dame has roughly 1,000 international students from more than 100 countries. 
OFFBEAT 

Human cannonball flies over U.S.-Mexico border 
UANA, Mexico -David Smith, Sr., who already holds a world record for the longest distance traveled by a human fired from a can­non, now has another feat on his record. 
Smith was shot across the U.S.-Mexieo border on Saturday, soaring about 150 feet and landing uninjured . in a net in San Diego with 
U.S. Border Patrol agents and an ambulance waiting nearby. 
Although it is against the law for anyone, including 
U.S. citizens, to enter the country outside an official port of entry, Smith Sr. was­n't crossing illegally. 
Women gives birth in midst of traffic jam 
HATTIESBURG, Miss. ­Eight-and-a-half-months pregnant, Bianca Doucett had been on the road for seven hours in bumper-to­bumper traffic fleeing New Orleans in advance of Hurricane Katrina when her worst-ease scenario began. 
Stuck on Interstate 59, nowhere near a hospital, she went into labor in Mississippi. 
"There was no way that this was happening," said the New Orleans resident. "I 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI :I: 

!;;: 
LLI 
~ 
...J 


~ 
<( (,) 

0 HIGH 82 HIGH 80 HIGH 78 HIGH 80
..... 

LOW 63 LOW 60 LOW 62 LOW 57 
Atlanta 84 I 72 Boston 84 I 70 Chicago 84 I 66 Denver 86 I 56 Houston 103 I 81 Los Angeles 88172 Minneapolis 80162 New York 84 I 70 Philadelphia 85 I 67 Phoenix 114 I 94 Seattle 80 I 58 St. Louis 88 I 78 Tampa 90 I 78 Washington 95 172 
Tuesday, August 30, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Group announces televised event 

KELLY HIGGINSffhe Observer 

BOG officers met for the first meeting of the year Monday to review freshman orientation and to 
dlscuss.upcoming campus events. 
By ALLISON RIDER 
News Writer 
Tlw Saint Mary's Board of (;owrnancn nwt li>r tho first time of thn school year Monday. Under tlw direction of student body prnsid<mt Knllyn Mitros members diseussnd fmshman ori<mtation as wnll as a various upcoming cam­pus evnnts. 
Studnnt body vicn presidnnt Susan Mdldull" rneogniznd senior St<~phani<1 Snyder for her hard work on thn 11rst "Closing the Cin~le" orinntation activity. Snyder worknd to organize a nnw Saint Mary's tradition in which new frnshman and returning studenL'i romn tognt.lwr in eermnony to cel­nhrato IH~ing a Saint Mary's woman. 
"(:ongratulations to I Stnphanie I for all of lwr hard work," Mclldull" said. "llopnfully this is something that will <·.ontinun in tho futum." 
Studont A.etivitins Board com­missionor Moghan Cahill reported an nxtr<~nwly positivn response from tlw 2005 Jamaica Shaka, which took plaen during Orinntation wneknnd. Tho groat turnout at tlw .Jamaica Shaka danen from all three campuses provided an increased enthusi­asm liw SMC's upeoming Twilight Tailgate, Cahill said. The tailgate will take placn on Sept. 13. 
BOG members also discussed a major upcoming lecturn at Saint Mary's nntitlnd "Vatican II Forty Ynars Later: Legacy, Leadership, and Unlinishod A.genda" which is scheduled li>r Sept. 23 and will be broadcast on <>span. 
Mission Commissioner Jenny Hobbins strongly encouraged nveryone to attend the event and said many exciting guest speak­ers, including Bishop Joseph Hemi De Hoo, one or tho eight surviving bishops from Vatican II, and Carmel McEnroy, author of "Guests In Their Own I louse: The Women of Vatiean II," will be in attendance. 
()(]icers also said they plan to continue fren Chicago bus trips for students. The planned datns were announced, and the lirst trip will bn held on Sept. 10. 
In Other BOG News: 
+Student Diversity Board com­missioner Amanda Shropshire announced that thn board will hold its annual bonfire on Oet. 5. 
+ 
Athletics Commissioner Bridget Grail announced a new activity taking place titled "Get Stamped." The goal of this pro­gram is to increaso Saint Mary's sporting event attendance, Grall said, by allowing students the chance to earn a free T-shirt after going to 10 Saint Mary's athletic events. Students will receive a <:ard that will be stamped at every game they attend; when they reach ten stamps, they will receive the T-shirt. 

+ 
The board also is planning Student Activities Night, which will take place Wednesday from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Student Center. This will give new students the option to explore the many oppor­tunities to get involved in various campus dubs and activities. ()If­campus community volunteers will also be attending the event, giving student a chance to become more connected to the South Bend community. 


Contact at Allison Rider at ariderO1@saintmarys.edu 

Guate111alan activist to receive ND Prize 
Special to The Observer 

Guatmnalan human rights activist llelen Ma<~k Chang has been awarded the 2005 Notre Danw Prize for l>istinguislH'd Public Servil-e in Latin 
A.m eriea by Notr<1 Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies. Tlw award will be presnnted Sept. 7 at a <:ernmony in Guatemala City. 
Maek is the founder of Guatemala's Myrna Mack Foundation. which she formed in a quest for justice for the brutal murder 
pion for human

"Ms. Mack is a
of hnr sister 
rights and justicn

Myrna Maek symbol ofthe 
in a country
and for thn 

impact one where that can bl'
thousands of 
a hazardous occu­

courageous person 
other citizens 
pation."

who lost their can have in the 
As part of tlw

lives at the political process." prize, Mack will
hands of the • 
be awarded
country's mili­


Father Edward Malloy $10,000. with a
tary. 
matching amount


A.n anthro­University president 
donated to the

pologist, emeritus 
Myrna Mack was stabbed to death Sept. 11, 1990, by mnm­bers or a military death squad in response to her investiga­tions of the destruction and massaere of entire indigenous 
communities  by  the  
Guatmnalan military.  
Since  the  Myrna  Mack  

Foundation's establishment in 1993, Helen Mack has sue­ceeded in making significant progress in the fight for human rights, reform of thn judiciary system and fortilica­tion of the rule of law. In addi­tion, she obtaim~d thn convk­tion of one the soldinrs accused of eommitting thn crime -and sl'vPral yPars later, tlw nmviction of onP of the thren oflic<ws arrusnd of mastPrminding Myrna Ma<·k's m urdPr. 
"Ms. Mack is a symbol of t.lw impaet o1w couragPous JWrson can havn in tlw political procnss," said HPv. Hdward A.. Malloy, C.S.C.. prPsidPnt Pllll'r­itus of NotrP Damn and a nwmbnr of tlw prizP commit­tee. "Sin<~e her sister, Myrna Mack. was brutally murderml by mnmbers of tlw military, slw has become an unlikPiy cham­
Myrna Mack 
Foundation. Dr. 

Jos<\ Carda Nova!, vice prosident of tlw Myrna Mack Foundation, will accept the matching cash award on bnhalf of the foundation. 
Mack is the rneipinnt of numerous awards and acco­lades, including thn Sw11dish Parlianwnt's Hight Livelihood Award. known as an "altnma­tivn Nobnl Prize." 
Establishnd in 2000 by thn Kellogg Institute and funded by Thn Coca-Cola Foundation. the Notro Damn Prizn has bnnn awanh~d to some of the Inad­ing politi<~al. dvil and rnligious ligurns in Latin Amnriea. 
T}, .... ;r~ ~<:.r·~:· "·<=:f.'h.3;~·::: :rr~~= i: ~:>~' :.u· ~:h4 .~-.(::,.,·:::.. 
;~~!r~::':t·::;:', :w~,;:,:::,~=~ l::~::1~h~~w,'::::: 
1hy J>~F4fh P4rrtfy tl•'l"nng tht> ~~;v&h ,(~·I ·~ f:iti~t'J,. !rt"-:1)'ti:tt'll"(k:rt<Hl ·•H qy,,Wb Jl.}"'l 
hb cnimltf [(4!Jniil·i <vuld h'li ~~'<U• the (~n'"ern:mem prm•\\:k:d mttth * >tr, '"< ~Jf tb~: foreigner'~ ~.whitt:' · be \-qnf;rttptty pure tnrl :J~<i;mpk. *1(,dun;.al t+!llli:tll~ 1±w CIJJfttJms ~..... 4M·I "· il't W'liC¢t,•ih.%.i ~tlJ fitt(~ by liKl1 ~\tnd;wned b\' the W:adtt~'t<m ra r·:'''Tf9tr tn hqutdl!lte the wht1h: {tj m '~ Vltf'Y f*W f'!ll:llf'11.lt-$Vin$ tnt: twwli''d ti1W' tt:MI th:w~.r~t The 
l\ ''AH ''' tlf!!id 11 ().,~'lffTil!'tC'ttt t£1 
' !::twww: ,,A+ "ii'><;%• wt!Mfd ~ i\1,.> 
;: .. 

··· ;~; ''i\'1:$HimWn# ~t${iiW®IM,tl: irWlW\14 ·\'i¢•:ttw ;zy, ''>i ·~~#q-.~ 

''" ;. <lj, itw-·:it; " '1i% ... 
.'1, .... 

····~ 
. "''..... 
,,.,,..,~. 
...,,.,. 
~ 

~.'$;, ~~ 
Ai;, ... 
~.· 

This word isWfr/ overpriced. 

b S.J I Mt!J 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 4 Tuesday, August 30, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS 


Stor01 
continued from page 1 

scared, and others are dealing with the situation well. None of my family or friends have been through a hurrieane this intense, so a lot of people are really pan­ieking." 
Other students, like freshman Paul Cordes, have al<>o faced diffi-. culty in contacting friends and family baek home. 
"I've spoken with my immediate family three times, but it has been extremely difficult to get in touch with them beeause the eell phone circuits have been overloaded," Cordes said. 
Sophomore Calleen Jones said her family is handling the situation "pretty well." 

"They tried to bring as many family mementos as possible," Jones said. "My main focus is knowing that my family is safe. Other material things ean be replaeed, but my family eannot." 
Although students were out­wardly concerned about the hurri­eane's eapaeity for widespread damage, some, like senior Meg Heniean, found solaee in the assured safety of their loved ones. 
"Of eourse I'm nervous about the damage that will be done, but I know my family and friends are safe, and that's what is impor­tant," Heniean said. 
Aeeing or facing Katrina 
New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin declared a state of emergency in the region Sunday and told the more than one million residents of the greater New Orleans area not to panic but also to demonstrate extreme vigilance. A mandatory evaeuation ordered loeals to flee the region immediately. 

Mueh of Cordes' extended family -ineluding grandmothers, aunts, uneles and cousins -live in the greater New Orleans area. His immediate family left town Sunday and will stay at hls father's piano teaeher's mother's house. 
"My immediate family has been on the road and [staying] in Laurel, Miss., after driving in grid­loek traffie [Sunday]," Cordes said. "My other relatives have the means to evacuate and are also taking refuge away from the city." 
Hall said his immediate family and some of his extended family drove to Houston -a seven-hour trek from New Orleans -to flee the hurrieane. 

"Because of traffic it took them over 12 hours to get there," he said. "I talked to a lot of my friends, and most of them are going to Atlanta. I don't know any­one who is staying behind." 
Heniean said her entire family hails from the greater New Orleans area and have evacuated to places such as Houston, Nashville, Mississippi and even South Bend. 
"Luckily my parents decided to come here with me to get away from the storm," Henican said. 
New Orleans resident and Saint Mary's junior Erin Nolan said her family chose to remain in the city despite the mayor's call for imme­diate evacuation. 
"My family aetually stayed and went against the evacuation order," Nolan said. 'They are on the third floor of our condomini­wn." 
Nagin said 80 percent of New Orleans residents evacuated the city. 
Approximately 9,000 of those who ehose to remain or were unable to eseape sought refuge in the Louisiana Superdome, which faced moderate damage as Katrina slammed the area Monday. 

A menacing stonn 

Katrina presented New Orleans with a doubly serious situation given both the nature of the storm itself and of the region. With winds upwards of 130 miles per hour and a storm surge exeeeding 20 feet, the hurricane fell into a pow­erful Category 4 elassifieation on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. 
The hurricane lost some of its vigor as it battered Alabama, Mississipi and other parts of the Gulf, but still caused heavy dam­age as a Category 3 storm. 
Katrina had weakened to a Category 2 hurricane Monday afternoon. 
The Big Easy was especially sus­ceptible to Katrina's immense strength given its geographic: makeup. Approximately 70 per­cent of New Orleans is below sea-level, and therefore, a levee sys­tem is used to protect the area from rising waters of the Mississippi River. 
But Katrina's massive storm surges exceeded the height of the levee system. Hall predicted the entire city to be in jeopardy of "serious flooding." 
"The only preventive measure to keep New Orleans from complete­ly submerging is a levee system that is only 18 feet above sea level," Hall said. "If you can do the math, you know we're in serious trouble." 
Coping with disaster from afar 
As residents of New Orleans grapple with the assured destruc­tion surrounding Hurricane Katrina, students some 800 miles away in South Bend must also deal with the devastation of one of the gravest natural disasters in reeent memory. 

Cordes said students from New Orleans have kept the lines of communication open when deal­ing with the hurricane and its aftermath. 
"Two girls from New Orleans I know have both told me they're scared, and one will try to drive home as soon as reasonably possi­ble," Cordes said. ''I'm going to try to talk with more [people from New Orleans] and help eaeh other out as much as we can." 
Many students have been glued to their television sets. 
"I have spoken with [my family] many times, and they had to tell me to turn off the television . . . I was getting more nervous than they were," Nolan said. "I am scared that my whole city will be destroyed." 
Cordes said while he is thankful for hls own safety and the safety of his family, he too struggles with the expected unease that eomes with a natural disaster of this magnitude. 
"Two of the biggest feelings I have are anxiety and uneertainty­as to how bad the damage and casualties will be since this is an unprecedented storm for New Orleans," Cordes said. "As a fresh­man, thls event puts my new life and new home in perspective since I don't know how much of my hometown will still exist." 
Cordes said he visited the Grotto Sunday to pray for hls hometown. 
Contact Katie Perry at 
kperry@nd.edu 











ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, August 30, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BsrRvnrs WIRE srRvtcrs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pope talks with conservative society 
VATICAN CITY-Pope Benedict XVI met Monday with the head of the ultraconserva­tivo schismatic movement founded by the lah~ Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre, and both sidos said Uwy had agreed to take steps.to rosolvn Lhnir difl'nrnncns. 
Both Lhn Vatican and Bishop Bernard Fellay, supnrior gmwral of Lefebvre's Sodety of St. Pius X said the meeting was hold in a spirit of lovo for Lhn church. But tho society has spurnnd pnwious ofl'orts by tho Vatiean to bring it back into its fold. 
I.nfnbvrn founded the Switzerland-basnd sodety in 1969, opposed to the libnralizing rnf'orms of' tho I1HJ2-h5 Sncond Vatiean Council. particularly its call for Mass to be cnlnhratnd in local languages and not in Latin. 
lin was excommunieatnd in 19SS arter eon­sncrating f'our bishops without Horne's con­snnl and dind in IIJIJ I. ;\II four bishops, induding Fnllay, also wnrn exeommunieatnd. 
Vatican spoknsrnan .Joaquin Navarro-Valls said tlw nwnting was hold with "a desire to arrivn at pnrfnct <~ommunion." 
U.S. blamed for condom shortage 
NAIHOBI, Knnya -Tho Bush administra­tion's mnphasis on abstinnnee in its intorna­Lional AIDS polidos has worsened a eondorn shortago in Uganda and could lead to an incrnase in its IIJV inl'oetion rate, a top U.N. mJVoy said Monday. 
Stophnn Lewis, tlw U.N. Secretary (;nneral's spncial envoy for IIIV/;\II>S in Africa, said U.S. cuts in funding for condoms and a new emphasis on promoting absti­rwnce had contributed to a condom shortago in Uganda. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Four killed near Texas church 
S;\SII, Texas-;\ gunman killed four people nnar a small-town ehureh, then killed himsell' narly Monday aftnr a nino-hour standoll' with police, authorilios said. 
Police said witnnssos told them that Freddie 1.. Cranshaw, who lived across the strnet from tlw Sash A'isembly of Cod church, exchanged words in the church parking lot Sunday night with church mmnbnr Wos Brown, who asked Cranshaw to leavo. 
Cranshaw, 54. who authorities said had only a partial right arm, returned a short time later and shot Brown, 61, at dose range, and then shot the pastor, James Armstrong, 42, witness­os said. 
Deputies found both men dead in a grassy aroa next to tho parking lot, Fannin County Shnrifl' Kenneth Moorn said. 
Cranshaw then drovn to an intersection, wlwrn he shot at a truck towing a horse trailer and then killeCI tho two women in the truck 
~ after thny tried to flee and hide. 

President promises post-storm aid 
EL MIHAGE Ariz. -President Bush plodgnd extensive assistance for victims of Ilurrieane Katrina on Monday and urged those in areas all'eetod to rnmain safe until the dan­ger "from this devastating storm" passed. The government put into eff'eet a massive emer­gtmey assistance program that included rush­ing baby formula, eommunieations equipment, gmwrators, wator and iee into hard-hit areas. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Children's hospital to expand 
INDIANAPOLIS -;\ planned $500 mil­lion nxpansion of Riley Hospital for Children would include a 10-story building and more clinics for specialty care across the stale. 
The projeel, formally announced Monday, would make it one of the largest children's hospitals in the nation. 
"This bold and ambitious plan is really designed to reach out to children through­out tho state," said Dr. Ora Hirsch l'eseovitz. Riley's president and chief exec­utivo oflicer. 


Weakened Katrina floods New Orleans 
Hurricane not as harsh as feared but caused massive damage down Gulf Coast 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS Hurricane Katrina was not the apocalyptic storm that New Orleans has been dreading all these years. But it was still a night­mare for the city and a 200-mile stretch of the Gulf Coast. 
Some neighborhoods in the Big Easy were sub­merged up t{) their roof's. Floodwaters gushed into Mississippi's flashy beach­front casinos. Sailboats were 11ung across a high­way liko toys. Dozens of people had to be rescued from rooftops and attics as the water rose through their homes. 
And an untold number of people were feared dead. 
"I was so happy that the worst-ease scenario didn't unfold, but then when I started Iooking around, you see buildings col­lapsed or with holes punched in them and it's really kind of sad," New Orleans Mayor Hay Nagin said. 

Katrina barreled into the Gulf Coast just outside New Orleans around day­break Monday as a mon­strous, 145-rnph storm, making a right turn at the Coast. up power. section over the next few last minute to spare the "Some of them, it was The fe-deral government days, it may spawn torna­Big Easy the doomsday their last night on Earth," began rushing baby for­does ovor the Southeast scenario it has long Terry Ebbert, ehief of mula, communications and swamp the Gulf Coast feared. llad Katrina not homeland security for equipment, generators, and the Tennessee and shifted, hurricane waters New Orleans, said of peo­water and iee into hard­Ohio Valleys with a potnn­could have spilled over ple who ignored orders to hit. areas, along with doc­tially ruinous R inchns or Ievens and swamped the evacuate the city of tors, nurses and f'irst-aid morn of rain. saucer-shaped city in a 480,000 over the week­supplies. The l'ontagon Oil n~linors said damagn toxic soup of refinery end. "That's a hard way to sent <~xperts to help with to their equipment in tlw chemicals, sewage and learn a lesson." search-and-rescue opera­Gu If region appmtrnd to be human bodies. Katrina knocked out tions. minimal. and oil prices 
At least five people were power to more than three'" Katrina was later down­dropped back from the known to have died in quarters of a million peo­graded to a tropical storm day's highs above $70 a Mississippi and Alabama ple from Louisiana to the as it passed through east­barrel. But the rel'iners because of the storm. Florida's Panhandle, and ern Mississippi, moving were still assessing tho Because of high water, authorities said it could be north at 21 mph. Winds damagn, and the Bush rescuers could not imme­two months before elec­were still a dangerous 65 administration said it diately reach some of the tricity is restored to every­mph. would eonsider releasing most hard-hit areas in one. Ten major hospitals Forecasters said that as oil from the nation's emer­New Orleans and else­in New Orleans were run­the storm moves north geney stockpile if neees­where along the Gulf ning on emergency back-through the nation's mid-sary. 

ISRAEL 


Gaza unrest continues despite Israeli withdraw 
elear message that terrorism won't be Palestinians together after live years
Associated Press 

tolerated and that major West Bank of trust-destroying violeneo. 
JEHUSALEM -;\ lethal arrest raid, settlement blocs will remain Isr.aeli. Both sides say thny'rn still prepared a suicide bombing, fresh land expro­"Israel cannot return to the '67 or to talk, however. Oflicials said a moot­priations, a threatening llamas video: '48 borders, because of the settle­ing is possible bntweon Sharon and So far, that's the follow-up to Israel's ments," Sharon said in a TV interview Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas historic Gaza pullout. Monday, referring to Israel's frontiers when the two are in New York next 
Hather than seize the moment to before it captured Gaza, the West month to address tho United Nations. jump-start negotiations, Israelis and Bank and other lands. "The settle­And Sharon's withdrawal, ending Palestinians appear to be falling into ment blocs will remain in sovereign 38 years of Israeli civilian presence in a familiar pattern of violence and Israel. They are of vital strategic the Gaza Strip, is likely to have long­rhetoric. Still, the withdrawal from importance." lasting ripple effects on Mideast Jewish settlements in Gaza is of such He added, however, that some other peacemaking that could weather significance that even the latest settlements would have to go in a some setbacks. With the settlers gonn, spasms are unlikely to torpedo all final peace deal. the army is expected to complete its momentum for peace. Sharon's critics say now is the time own pullout in the eorning days. 
Ariel Sharon won praise for fulnii­to capitalize on the goodwill created "We understand that Mr. Sharon ing his pledge -in a dramatic, by the Gaza evacuation, not to 11ex has to show the Israeli people that he breakneck sweep that ended last muscles. Many fear the two sides is conceding on one side and week -to evacuate 8,500 settlers already have begun to squander a strengthening his position on the from the Gaza Strip and another 500 unique historical opportunity. And the other," Hafiq Ilusseini, the Palostinian from the northern West Bank. Now recent friction has brought home the chief of starr, told The Associated the Israeli leader wants to send a very pitfalls of trying to get Israelis and Press. 
Tuesday August 30, 2005 
page 6 The Observer + Paid Advertisement 

A Life Uncommon 
Acad<'mif Competition Club 
Accounlii1g Association 
Actuarial Science Club 
Adworks 
Africa Faith & justice Network 
African Students Association 
Amateur l~adio Club 
American Chemical Society American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics 
American Institute of Chemical Engineers 
Amerkan Society of Civil Engineers 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers/ Society of Automotive Engineers Amnesty International Anime Club Anthropology Club Asian American Association Asian Jmernational Society Bagpipe Band Ballet Folklorko Azul y Oro Ballroom Dance Club Bands. Student Organization Baptist Collegiate Ministry Biology Club Black Cultural Arts Council Bowling Club Boxing Club, Men's Boxing Club. Wonwn's Campus Fellowship of the Holy Spirit Caribbean Student Organization Celebration Choir Chess Club Children of Mary Children's Defense Fund Chinese Culture Society Chorale Climbing Club Club Coordination Council Club 'Sola College Democrats College Libertarians College Republir.ans Computer Club Coro Primawra de Nut•stra Senora Cycling Club Debate Team DPtachmem 225 AFROTC Dornl' Designs Dome Yearbook Economics Club Entrepreneur Club Equestrian Club Farley Hall Players Feminist Voice Field Hockey Club Fighting Irish Wrestling Club Figure Skating Club Filipino American Student Organization First Class Steppers FlipS ide Fly Fishing Club Forum on Biomedical Ethics 
·' 
Freshman Class Coum· i I 
Gaelic Soriety 
German Club 
Guitar Players Association 
Gymnastics Club 
Halftinw 
Hancibell Choir 
Harmonia 
Hawaii Club -Na Pua Kai 'Ewalu 
Health Occupations Students of Amerka 

Hispanic Business Student Association History Club Humor Artists Hurling and Camogie Club Ice Horkey Team. Women's Indian Association Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Investment Club Irish Dance Club Irish Gardens Iron Sharpens Iron Italian Club Japan Club Japanese Martial Arts Club jewish Club joint Engineering Council judkial Council Juggler, Th'e Juggling Club Junior Parents Weekt'nd Knights of the Immaculata Korean Student Association La Alian7.a Le Cerde Francais (FrPnrh Club) League of Black Business Students Leprechaun Legion Linux Users Group ManagPment Club Management Information Systems Club Marketing Club Martial Arl' Institute 
MEChA de NO (Movimiento Estudianlil Chicano de Aztlan) 
Me~iaeval Society of Our Lady of the Lake Mexican American Engineers & Scientists/ Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers 
Minority Pre -Medical Society 
Mock Trial Association Mu Alpha Theta (Math Club) 
Muslim Student Association National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
National Society of Black Engineers Native Ametican Student Association ND for Animals NDesign NDTV (Student Broadcasting of Notre Dame) Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company Observer. The 
Orestes Brownson Council on Catholicism and American Politics Organizacion Latino Americana Orthodox Christian Fellowship Club Pakistan Student Association .Pasquerilla East Musical Company Peace Fellowship Pi Sigma Alpha Polish Club Pom Pon Squad Pre -Dental Society Pre -Professional Society/ AMSA Pre-Vet Club ProgressiVf' Student Alliance Psychology Club Right To Life 
)~owing Club. Men's Crew 
Running Club. Men's Running Club. Women's Russian Club Sahaja Yoga Association Sailing Club Saint Edward's Hall Players Srhola,lic Magazine Science -Business Club Shades of Ebony Shirt Project. The 
Society of Women Engineers 
Sociology Club 
Sorin Rifle Team -Anny ROTC 
Spanish Club 
Squash Club 
Student Alumni Relations Group 
Student Government 
Student International Business Council 
Student Players 
Student Union Board 
Sustained Dialogue 
Swing Club 
Symphony Orchestra 
Texas Club, The 
Toastmasters International Troop NO!n' Dame Ultimate Frisbee Club Unchained Melodies Undergraduate Women in Business University Yoqng Life Vietnamese Studem Association Voices of Faith Gospel Choir Volleyball Club, Men's Wabruda. The Water Polo Club, Men's Water Polo Club, Women's Women In Politics Women's Liturgical Choir World Taekwondo Federation Club WSND-FM WVFI 
SOCIAl SERVICE ClUBS AND COMMUNITY AGENCIES 
AIDS Awareness AIDS Ministries/ AIDS Assist Alliance To Lead And Smve American Cancer Society Club Arnold Air Society Best Buddies Big Brothers/Big Sisters Club Big Brothers/Big Sisters of St. joe County Boy Scout~ of America, LaSaile Council Boys and Girls Clubs of St. joseph County Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination Campus Girl Scouts Center for the Homele~.s Charles Martin Y outb Center Circle K Cornmunlly Alliance ro Serve Hispanics Disrnas House Domers Mentoring Kids Food share Habitat for Humanity Helpful Undt>rgraduate Student' Humane Society of St. Joseph County Irish Fighting for St. jude Kids Knights of Columbus. No. 1477 La Casa de Amistad LEAD-NO 
Life Treatment Centers 
Logan Center 
Logan Recreation Cluh 
Ms. Wizard Day Program Team 
Neighborhood Study Help Program 
Operation Smile Student Organization Reigns of Life. Inc. 
Saint Joseph's Chapin Stn•et Health Center Voluntet'rs 
Saint Vincent de Paul Society 
Silver Wings (Benjamin D. Foulois Chapter) 
Slice of Life 
S-0-S of Madison Center 
South Bend juvenile Corrections 
Southern Care Hospice 
Special Friends Club 
Students for Environmental Ac:tion 
Students for Organ Donation 
Super Sibs 
TPamwork for Tomorrow 
Trident Naval Society 
Twenty-First Century Scholars 
Women in Social Service and HeaiU1 
Women's Care Center 
World Hunger Coalition 
SPECIAl GUESTS  
Alliance for Catholic Education  Legends of Notre Dame  
American Red Cross  Office of Alcohol and Drug Education/PILLARS  
Athletic Promotions  RecSports  
Campus Ministry  Robinson Community Learning Centerffake Ten  
Center for Social Concems  Sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross  
Club Coordination Council  Standing Committee on  
Edur.ational Talent Search  Gay and Lesbian Student Needs  
First Aid Services Team  Student Activities Office  
Gender Relations Center  Trdnspo  
I  •  • I  •  •  '­ I  t  I  •  




GET INVOLVED 
All current Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are invited to join us for our annual Notre Dame Activities Night. Hundreds of clubs and organizations will be represented to meet and sign-up new members, distribute information and share their plans for the year. Don't miss it. 
Online info: sao.nd.edu/studentgroups/programs/an/index.shtml 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT IS COORDINATED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AND COSPONSORED BY RECSPORTS IN COLLABORATION WITH THE CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL 
Tl···f E ()BSERVER 




USINESS

Tuesday, August 30, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,463.05 +65.76
}ones "'' 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,052 167 • 1,600,112,920 
AMEX I ,389.67 -227.69 NASDAQ 2,137.65 +16.88 NYSE 7,413.98 +34.12 S&PSOO 1,212.28 +7.18 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 12,300.83 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,228.10 -27.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) +0.78 +0.30 38.76 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.67 +0.18 27.15 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.38 +0.24 17.64 INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.26 +0.32 25.73 SUN MICROSYS INC (SUNW) + 1.09 +0.04 3.71 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.39 -0.17 43.64 10-YEAR NOTE -0.38 -0.16 41.73 5-YEARNOTE -0.15 -0.06 40.78 3-MONTH BILL +0.52 +0.18 34.85 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.07 67.20 GOLD ($rfroy oz.) -0.70 441.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.20 82.83 
Excho Rates 

YEN I I 0.5650 EURO 0.8174 POUND 0.5567 CANADIAN$ 1.1975 
IN BRIEF Stocks rebound after hurricane 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street rallied Monday after llurrieane Katrina weakened, easing concerns about refinery outages along the Gull' of Mnxieo and pulling oil prices baek from reeord highs. 
Stoeks opened lower but quickly rebound­nd as crude oil futures cooled after surging past $70 a barrel in early trading on news that the storm shut down about 8 pereent of 
U.S. refining capacity. A barrel of light crude sot.tl11d at $(,7.20. up $1.20 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
Investors found some relief in reports that Prosidnnt Bush was mulling whether to off­set the supply disruption with oil from the nation's petroleum reserve, but energy and insurance stocks still carne under pressure as the market tried to gauge the hurricane's li naneial irnpact. 
.Jim Dunigan, chief investment officer for PNC Advisors, said the market had braced for the storm and started looking elsewhere for direction after the Gulf Coast got "hit full force and survived." 
"It's not likely this is going to have a signif­icant impact on growth," Dunigan said. 
Last day for GM employee-pricing 
DETHOIT -General Motors Corp. will extend its employee-pricing discount plan on select 2005 models until Sept. 30, a spokeswoman said Thursday. 
The world's biggest automaker also plans to apply the discount to select 2006 full-size trucks and sport utility vehicles, said spokeswoman Brenda Hios. The program lets customers buy vehieles at the employee ratn. 
GM was tho first of the Big Thren to offer nmployne prices for all consumers in June. GM's sales shot up 4l percent that month. Ford Motor Co. and DaimlerChrysler AG's Chryslnr Group followed with their own mnployen-prieing plans in July. 
GM and Ford had nxtended discount plans in August. and Chrysler had extended the deal indel'initely. GM's incentives had been scheduled to run through Sept. 6; Ford's also are set to nxpirn that day. 
Messagns seeking comment were left Thursday with Ford and Chrysler. 


Former KPMG execs charged with fraud 
Accounting firm avoids indictment despite admitting to tax shelter activity 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Eight for­mer executives of account­ing firm KPMG were indicted Monday and the l'irm agreed to pay $456 million as it admitted it sold fraudulent shelters to help wealthy clients avoid paying billions in taxes. 
The firm, part of the accounting industry's so­called Big Four, itself avoided a potentially dev­astating criminal indict­ment. agreeing to submit to an independent monitor and not to commit further wrongdoing. 
KPMG admitted it helped "high net worth" clients evade billions of dollars in capital-gains and income taxes by developing and marketing the tax shelters, and coneealing them from the Internal Revenue Service. 
The $456 million fine includes $128 million in forfeited fees that KPMG earned by selling the fraudulent tax shelters. 
Also Monday, federal prosecutors released an indictment of nine men ­eight former KPMG execu­tives and an outside tax lawyer who worked with the firm -charging them with conspiring to defraud the IRS. 
Among those charged crimes, but agreed not to subject of the investiga­the late 1990s that was Jeffrey Stein, who was seek a grand jury indict­tion," he said. "KPMG is a allowed its elients to named deputy chairman of ment. better and stronger firm report tax losses to offset KPMG in April 2002. Under the deal, known today, having learned big profits elsewhere,. There was no immediate as a deferred prosecution much from this experi­thereby avoiding paying word on when the nine agreement, prosecutors ence." taxes. men would appear in can seek an indictment of The company's monitor KPMC stopped providing court. the firm through Dec. 31, will be Richard Breeden, a the shelters in 2002. In 
Judge Loretta Preska of 2006, if it violates the former Securities and June it said that some of Manhattan federal court terms of the agreement. Exchange Commission its former partners had said KPMG's board had In a statement, KPMG chairman who has also engaged in "unlawful con­unanimously agreed to the chairman and CEO served as a court-appoint­duct" and pledged to coop­deal. Timothy Flynn noted that ed monitor for MCI Inc., erate with the Justice 
Federal prosecutors had the men indicted in the the post-bankruptcy incar­Department. filed what is known as a scheme are no longer with nation of WorldCom Inc. Attorney General Alberto criminal information the company. The investigation cen­Gonzales and Manhattan charging the firm with "We regret the past tax tered on a type of tax shel­U.S. Attorney David Kelley conspiracy and other practices that were the ter marketed by KPMG in and IHS Commissioner 


EU approves Johnson & Johnson acquisition 
Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. -The European Union cleared Johnson & Johnson's planned purehase of heart device maker Guidant Corp. on Thursday, provided some operations are sold, but J&J said the deal closing will be delayed because key U.S. regulators have yet to sign off. 
Johnson & Johnson spokesman Jeffrey Leebaw would not give a timetable for completing the $25.4 billion cash and stock acquisition, but said it could not be finished until after the U.S. Federal Trade Commission makes a decision. 
"We're now focusing on obtaining the FTC clearance," said Leebaw. "We expect that in October." 
The New Brunswick-based maker of medicines, skin and baby care products, contact lenses and medical devices had been aiming to wrap up the deal by the end of September. That timetable became questionable when Indianapolis-based Guidant, which makes pacemakers and defib­rillators, this summer had to issue several recalls covering tens of thou­sands of the devices, which are implanted in patients' chests. 
Last month, J&J's chief financial officer, Robert J. Daretta, hinted dur­ing an analysts' conference call that the deal might be delayed beyond September. 
On Thursday, Leebaw repeated the same company line that J&J has issued since the Guidant problems first surfaced. 
"We continue to work with Guidant to understand and evaluate the impact of the various lrecallsl that they have announced in the last sev­eral months," Leebaw said. 
Guidant has recalled 88,000 defib­rillators and 2 8, 000 pace rn akers beeause of malfunctions. At least two patient deaths have been linked to the faulty defibrillators. 
Independent healtheare analyst 
llemant Shah of IlKS & Co. in Warren, N . .J ., said he believes the acquisition is still on track. 
"If J&J was not interested or had second thoughts, they would have said so" by now, he said. 
Shah said analysts and investors don't know the financial impact of the recalls, but if it appears they will still be hurting sales six months or so from now, "without a doubt the value of the deal will change." 
Guidant spokesman Steve Tragash declined interview requests Thursday. 
The deal already has been approved by Guidant shareholders, and did not require approval by J&J stockholders. 
Thursday's approval by tho European Union's executive commis­sion eame with the condition that the combined company sell operations in some niche markets for cardiovascu­lar devices to guarantee fair eompn­tition in the EU's 25 mPrnber states. 
Tuesday, August 30, 2005 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Student 
continued from page 1 
I've gone through." 
He said he has had no sup­port -emotional, financial or otherwise -from his parents. His experience as a gay male at Notre Dame is what set him apart from the droves of other applicants who applied, said Vance Lancaster, executive director of The Point Foundation. 
"The fact that Brett decided to go to Notre Dame and is attending a university that doesn't recognize the gay and lesbian organization on cam­pus and is not supportive of gay issues on campus is some­thing we support," Lancaster said. 
In recent years, Notre Dame has denied requests to recog­nize AllianceND, a campus gay­straight alliance, as an official student organization. The 
COR 
continued from page 1 
and has voting rights, while the other three are restricted to speaking. Vijay Ramanan, the Arts and Letters repre­
sentative,  is  the  current  
Academic Delegate.  
Crossin,  whom  Baron  

described as "excited and enthused," is a marketing major who headed The Shirt project in 2003-04 and served on the Academic Council last fall. 
"The Academic Council needs to make students more aware of what it does -a back and forth exchange, not just reporting," Crossin said. 
Delegates from the schools of engineering and science will be chosen as soon as the college deans submit nomina­tions. 
Judicial Council president James Leito introduced soph­omore Peter Van Loon as the nominee for vice president of elections. 
"He was a great help to· [former Judicial Council pres­ident] Brin [Anderson] in last year's elections," Leito said of Van Loon, who previously served on Judicial Board. 
Van Loon said he would work to ensure greater atten­dance at Judicial Board meetings during student gov­ernment elections. 
"I think there's a real prob­lem there," he said, noting that key votes could not be taken due to inadequate attendance. 
Although Van Loon's nomi­nation met no spoken opposi­tion, the vote was postponed until next week due to a for­mality. 

In other COR news: 
+ Chief executive assistant Liz Kozlow said she met with Matt Adams, manager of the Student Business Board, to discuss the ownership of the NDBay Web site, run last year by recent graduates. 
Kozlow said the "kinks with the AFS ID" were being fixed, and Baron mentioned the possibility of online ticket sharing. 
COR voted 8-7 to buy NDBay last spring. The Web site cost student government $5,000, $1,000 of it for a consulting contract. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna@nd.edu 

University also does not include sexual orientation in its legal non-discrimination clause. 
However, the University has published a statement, "The Spirit of Inclusion of Notre Dame," that supports gay and lesbian members of the University community. Notre Dame's Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs also strives to make homosexu­al students feel welcome. 
Sister Mary Louise Gude, chair of the Standing Committee and Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs, is thrilled for Janecek. 
"Notre Dame is a top 20 school, and we have lots and lots of very smart and gifted people that go here," Gude said. "So it's no surprise at all that one of our gay or lesbian students would receive this [award]. They are a very tal­ented group." 
Janecek's sexual orientation has been an extra burden on him since childhood. He spent his high school years trying to please his parents by ignoring his passion for the arts. He says he does not have a work­ing relationship with his par­ents -who learned of his homosexuality last October. 
"The scholarship gives me emotional backing and acknowledgment of who I am which I just don't receive from this school or at home," Janecek said. "It gives me this inner strength and affirmation to stand up and show my strength that I always have had but was just been too afraid to show." 
Janecek's scholarship is renewable for the duration of his undergraduate education. He estimates he will receive $57,000 total. In addition, he will be paired up with one of 51 professional Point Foundation mentors who will serve as a coach, confidant and friend. . "The mentor is responsible for shepherding the student through the college and gradu­ate school period,." Lancaster said. "A lot of the students have been disowned by their parents, so the mentors are there for things like parents' weekend and for .holidays." 
Lancaster noted that more than 40 percent of homeless teenagers are gay or lesbian and The Point Foundation seeks to reach out to them. The organization has experienced tremendous growth since its inception in 2001. The majority of its funding comes from pri­vate donations, and the non­profit organization has bal­looned to be worth over $2.5 million with a $1 million endowment fund, he said. 
Lancaster attributes its growth to the large number of students in the U.S. who have been "disowned" from their parents. The number is so great, he said, that the founda­tion cannot help them all. 
"This year we had more than 2,000 people open up applica­tions -which indicates the scope of the problem," he said. "There is a tremendous need out there because having the right to an education is the birthright of every young per­son. Unfortunately, a lot of gay and lesbian kids don't have the opportunity." 
Janecek must maintain a 3.5 grade point average in order to continue receiving the scholar­ship money. l-Ie is also required to design and implement a community service project. Janecek's project is still in the works. 
"I'm just standing up and being the example that can help other gay men be happy with themselves," Janecek said. "I want to show people that it's OK to be gay, it's not a terrible lifestyle. It's who I am. It's who God made me to be." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


Tuesday, August 30, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 

Dean 
continued from page I 
blo dreams here, and all of us at tlw first yoar want to make sun~ we do everything to hnlp thnm riHtlize their dreams." 
;\t freshman oriolltation, hi~ was able to finally put faces on tllis group. The orientation wnnt smoothly, he said, and he felt blnssed to partieipatn in the oxpnrierH:n. 
"It's rnally quito a wonder, I found mysnlf getting sort of choked up on late Saturday 
and not be touched very dneply by what this new begin­ning moans to first year stu­dents and what it exemplifies for the University and what it's going to moan four years from now wlwn they all como back to Joyen Athletic eenter for graduation." 
At the orientation, Page addressed students and par­ents, thanking them for entrusting their education to Notrn Dame and encouraging them to take advantage of their timn horn. 
"For studonts. I wanted them to see the next four years as an opportunity to discover their intnlleetual passion and to become really responsible stewards of knowledge," he said. "Coming to university involves being an aetive learner rather than a passive learner ... Those are the biggest things l wanted students to get, along with finding time for silenee, the opportunity to disengage from the world, from the inter­net, from lM, so that they ean in some sense have the oxperi­enee of communion with God." 
Himself a person of varied interests and accomplishments, Page encourages the talented first year Glass to pursue edu­cation outside of the classroom. 
"l  like  to  be  
involved  in  so  
many  things  

because each of them has taught me something incredibly impor­tant about the world, about God, about society and about myself," he said. "There's a certain amount of uninhibited explo­ration that needs 
afternoon as I was talking to parents and watching tlw stu­dents and realiz­ing what a won­
~le~ful pla~:n ~!l.is 
rs, lw s<ud. So it's kind of hard to go through all of thosn nvents 
"f think he has a rea/love of learning and is sensitive to issues of student development." 
Eileen Kolman former Dean of FYS 
to take place in order for a mind to be fully shaped and in ~rder f~?r a heart to be fully formed. 
Dean Kolman, currently on leave from the University, said she has total confidence in the ability of her successor. 
"lle is a respected member of' the faculty in the largest of Notre Dame's colleges," Kolman said. "I think he has a real love of learning and is sen­sitive to the issues of student development. For these and many other reasons, l think he is eminently qualified." 
Max Johnson, a colleague of Page's in the theology depart­ment and in their blues band, "The Oblates of Blues," expresses complete confidence in Page. 
"Hugh is a wonderful choice for FYS dean for several rea­sons," Johnson said. "He is a well-balanced individual who knows the importance of 'hav­ing a life' outside of his job. He is a first-rate teacher who likes to say that 'a university is a place of dreams,' and is willing and able to assist others to dare to dream their dreams and go after them. lie has a great sense of humor and deep respect for people." 
Throughout the year, Page will participate in individual student advising, staff meetings and curriculum planning. lie also plans to visit first year classes, residence halls, LaFortune and other student events to get a better sense of student interests and life. 
·Page feels he has "very big shoes to fill," as the three pre­vious deans have left impres­sive legacies. It may be too early to predict what his own legacy will be, he said, but he has high expectations. 
"At the end of my time as dean," he said, "if we continue to encourage first year students to become intellectually curi­ous, creative, bold, independ­ent and free-thinking young people with an appreciation of how spirituality and pursuit of truth are intertwined, and help to form responsible young adults -ifwe succeed in doing that, then I'll continue to con­sider my time here to have been a great success." 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynnl@nd.edu 


U.S. Supreme Court Justice speaks out 
Antonin Scalia blasts 'judge moralists' in law school speech at Chatham University 
Associated Press 
ORANGE, C;\ U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia blasted what he called "judge moralists" and the infusion of politics into judicial appointments Monday after joining law students in a re-enactment of a 100-year-old landmark case. 
Speaking before a packed auditorium at Chapman University, Scalia said he was saddened to see the Supreme Court deciding moral issues not addressed in the Constitution, such as abortion, gay rights and the death penalty. He ·said such questions should be settled by Congress or state legisla­tures beholden to the people. 
"I am questioning the pro­priety -indeed. the sanity -of having a value-laden decision such as this made for the entire society ... by unelected judges," he said. 
Scalia also railed against the principle of' the "living Constitution," saying it has led the Senate to try to appoint so-called politically "moderate" judges instead of focusing on professional cre­dentials and ability. 
"Now the Senate is looking for moderate judges, main­stream judges. What in the world is a moderato inter­pretation of a constitutional text? Halfway bntwoen what it says and what we'd like it to say?" he said, to laughtnr and applause. 

Scalia didn't make any direet references to the looming confirmation battln for Supreme Court nominee John Hoberts. but hn did allude to it. 
"Each year the conflict over judicial appointments has grown more intense," he said. "One is tempted to shield his eyes from the upcoming speetacle." 
Earlier in the day, Scalia was much less serious while re-IHHtcting the landmark 1905 Supreme Court case Lochner v. New York with live recent law school grad u­ates, three undergraduates. California Attorney General Bill Lockyer and a Chapman professor. 
The original court rulPd that a state law limiting bak­ers' hours violated a bakery owner's liberty and right to duo process. On Monday, however, the mock justicns overturned that deeis,ion in less than 30 minutes of debate. 


lfrid11y. Wepteml.er 2 

t}DALE K -THE COMEJ?~YPONOTI6T WA6HINGTON HALL~ 
SUB MOVIE: "61N CITY" 8PM AND fOPM IN fOf DEBARTOLO 
W«turday, Weptemher a 
6UB MOVIE: "61N CITY" 4:30PM AND 7:30PM IN 101 DEBARTOLO 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, August 30, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Of patriots and tyrants 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Hearber Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gouumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROLLER Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MAAV'S DESK smc.i @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rbe students ofrbe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeirber institution. The Observer reserves rbe right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. C-ammentaries, letters and columns present rbe views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies shouldbe directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ohscrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) 15 published Monday through Friday except during exam and vaCilticm period.<., Asull$Criptinn co The Oh~rvc:r is $100 for .one academic year; $5'5 (or nne t~eme.ucr. 
The Obscrvcr is publish<d:a1: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrccdons ro: Nom: Dame. IN 46';56-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dam~ r.o. Bvx779 J.nd addilional mailing offices. 01-4 Sou1b Dining Hail 
Nout Dame, IN 46:556--0779 
The Obscrvct is. a mcmher ofthe Associated PrC:s5.. All rtproduaian rights at\!: 
r~tvo:l.. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
Wisdom often comes from the most unlikely of sources. Extremist and semi­mad preacher Pat Roberston quite recently said something that made sense: remove Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez. While his call for assassination was certainly too extreme, he was cor­rect to suggest that it is time that America takes more affirmative steps for regime change in Venezuela. 
Hugo Chavez is a brutal dictator and demagogue who has manipulated a segment of the Venezuelan people in a mad attempt to satiate his own base lust for power. There is no shame, no illegality, no out­rage he will not commit to remain in con­trol. 
The Venezuelan constitution, courts and military have both been changed to cement his rule. November, 2000 saw Chavez be so bold as to pass a measure through his freshly-stacked legislature allowing him to rule by personal fiat for an entire year. Protected by his also­reconfigured kangaroo courts, Chavez was free to chip away at the block of Venezuelan democracy. Are these the actions of a president or a tyrant? 
The fact that Chavez has won several elections and referendums does not decrease the egregious nature of his crimes against liberty. Democracies are not made of elections, but of freedom and self-government. The fact that a violent and disgruntled portion of the electorate is willing to vote away their freedoms and God-given rights, while at the same time using violent and illegal measures to suppress the opposition, only makes the situation in Venezuela more sad. 
Chavez's victories at the polls have also been marred by reports of electoral 


lan Ronderos 
The Right Vzew 
fraud. Just this last Sunday, protesters of electoral fraud and supporters of reform­ing the chavista-dominated National Electoral Commission were marching peacefully when supporters of the gov­ernment assaulted them with rocks and tear gas. This sort of violence is now tragically not an uncommon occurrence in Venezuela. My dear friend from Venezuela had two of his friends abduct­ed at a protest and beaten in a van for three hours by the National Guard. Hugo Chavez has done nothing to restrain his dogs and has often condoned and sup­ported the use of violence as a means of political oppression. 

Hugo Chavez's infatuation with Cuban dictator Fidel Castro and his praise for socialistic measures are the most dis­turbing and foreboding signs for what the future might deliver. He is desperate­ly clinging to a failed, moribund philoso­phy that has never succeeded anywhere save academia. Chavez is now in a con­solidated position to follow step with his hero Fidel and move to nationalize pri­vate industry and towards a communist economy. This would not only crush the Venezuelan economy, but would lead to widespread destabilization in the region. Faced with a self-inflicted eeonomic col­lapse, Chavez would have little choice but to blame the United States. 
To overshadow the domestic squalor presiding. he would likely try utilizing his oil wealth to spread his "revolution." Venezuela has indeed caused much harm to the region already and helped to prop up Cuba's failing economy with cheap oil. Securing Venezuela would indeed ensure the security of a key American oil suppli­er. 
Chavez has sympathized with leftist rebels in Colombia and given them free reign to operate along his border. This only further complicates the drug war in Colombia and ultimately America. He recently dealt the drug war another blow when he ejected the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency from his country. The danger posed by Hugo Chavez is clear; the solution is not. Assassination is messy and carries.ihe danger of causing much blood as the factions struggle for revenge and power. It would be ideal to remove Chavez without the shedding of blood, yet we do not live in an ideal world and must be willing to make deci­sions based upon realist considerations. However, it should not be disregarded as an option if the alternative involves more blood and suffering. 

An armed insurrection within Venezuela is another very undesirable, yet entirely possible alternative. The United States should begin taking steps to strengthen the opposition in Venezuela (with arms if necessary) and try to con­vince some of the generals to desert Chavez. If the United States should com­mit air support and possibly a division of Marines, if need be, the war would be ended swiftly and the opposition could begin the process of rebuilding democra­cy in Venezuela. The best solution would be the peaceful one whereby ChavPz loses the next presidential election. It is the most expedient course for the United States to funnel vast sums of money to the opposition candidate to ensure they get as strong a running as possible. For the interests of peace, pray this last option works. Yet as Thomas Jefferson said, "The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants." 
Ian Ronderos is a senior majoring in the Classics with a supplementary major in Ancient Greek and Roman Civilizations. He is the current president emeritus and chair of the education com­mittee for the Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at irondero@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 



OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
Megan O'Neil Bobby Griffin Mary Kate Tom Dorwart Malone Ryan Kiefer What will the Notre Dame Lisa Schultz Scene 
football team's regular 

"To cherish what remains ofthe Earth 
Viewpoint Mark 

and to foster its renewal is our only

season record be? 
legitimate hope ofsurvival. "
Becca Rosswurm Bemenderfer Graphics Ram a 
Wendell Barry
Graham Ebetsch Gottumukk.ala 
author
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, August 30, 200'5 page 11 
U-WIRE 
The latest casualty in the war on civil liberties 
For tlwsn of you sitting in tho ba1:k of tho classroom. /\nwril:a has init.iatml anotlwr'l'ront to its war. Oru·o tlw doubil' takn is ovnr. go bark and read that sPntnn1:n again. Y1ts, anothnr front in tlw War on 
Crockett Cobb 
Tnrror. This Limn around. hownvnr. tlwrn arnn't any human easualties as Daily a n~sult of this front. o'Collegian 
Tlw c.asualtins of this war are the Oklahoma basir rights of our prognny and us. State Tho primary cause of these basic l !niversity infringmnnnts is the nefarious bas­tard child of fnar, tho U.S. Patriot Act. 
The Patriot /\ct was passod in tho Senate with only ono dissnnting vote and passed in the llouse with a sig­nificant majority. · 
I know some of you are saying, "But hey, there was a sunsnt clause on that bill. and it was set to expire this year." 
Why yns. my friend, you are correct. 

The sad part of this is that the 11 of the 16 provisions of thn Patriot /\et are eurrently under consideration to bn passml into law. pnrmanontly. Versions of the bill havn passnd both tho I louse and Senate, and are eur­rmJtly !wing nwshml into one coherent law for Prnsid1~nt Bush to sign into law. 
Sonw of my fritmds toll mo I'm a little paranoid about tho ontirn ordnal. I don't bolioVf~ them. Case in point is th1~ latnst usn by tho FBI of the Patriot Aet. 
On /\ugust 26. tho FBI used provisions in tho Aet to dnmand library rneords from an institution in Connecticut. That's right. library roeords. Thankfully, 
there are organizations like the /\meriean Civil 
Liberties Union to step in. 

Tlw ACLU has brought a lawsuit to protect the rights ol' tho citizens involved. but tho ease is still pending. 
II' the government f'eds threatened by a person who is reading books, something is drastically wrong with the policies set forth by our representatives. 
To paraphrasf~ a quote from Honald Beagan, "The scariest words in the English language are 'I'm from the government, and I'm here to help,"' which in this case, is incredibly true. 
If you remember back to September 2001, the citi­zens of the United States wrote a blank check to the government to light the War on Terror. On the "Pay to:" line, we collectively wrote, "whatever is necessary to make us feel safe again." 
Nowhere in our eloctions did we rubber stamp a pro­gression into the Orwellian state of Big Brother. 
Given the tendfmcies of the current president and Congress, the path the United States is headed down seenis far too much like that of represented by Orwell. 
Four years later, our rights have suffered the drunk­en fondling of a government bont on "protecting" its constituents. Instead of being relatively safer, we're only further paranoid by the random color code changes in the terror alerts. 
We sit frightened in the eorner watching England and Spain suffer terrorist attacks. However, unlike the Americans, the Spanish and English don't roll over and lot the government take control. 
Thn British c.itizons startnd WPb sitns with photos of people holding signs that say, "Wn an~ not afraid" and continued on with thnir daily liws. Anwri!:ans pPrsisl. in surrendering rights to thn War on Civil Libnrtins in hope ol' somn protoelion. 
Benjamin Franklin put it most. <u:curatnly wlwn hn said, "Those who would giVP up nssPntiallilwrty to pur­chase<~ lit~!e tnmporary sal'nty dns1~rVI' rwitlwr libnrty nor saioty. 
As ol'ten as this quote is thrown around when tlw aforementioned law comns up. it is still thn most elo­quent dissenting opinion to such ovasive acts as has ever been stated. It is ridiculous to think that our libnr­tios should b1~ sacrificnd for security from throats that we are unablo to quantify. 
It's best if the collective citizenry of tho U.S. keeps a vigilant eye on the government and its privacy invading laws. 
Following the adagn, "/\n ounce of prevention is worth a pound of euro," leads to the conclusion that it's easier to stop laws from being passnd than to rnpoal bad laws. 
If we all work tognthor. maybn wn'll nevor have to hear our ehildnm say, "When you worn young, wiml wn at war with Ocoania'?'' 
This column originally appeared in the !lug. 29 issue ofthe Daily ()'Collegian. the daily publication al Oklahoma State Unitwrsity. 
The views expressed in this column are those (~/'the author and not, necessarily those (~/' '/1u> Observer: 

Dorm living requires patience-deal with it 
Bnfon1 !wading into tho dorm daze, please hnnd the following advice: Life in a dorm l'llquirns things far from the norm. 
What oxaetly do wn nwan by this? Existnnen in thn rosidenee halls brings 
about situations far Staff Editorial diiTernnt than semn­ingly normal things 
Daily fbrty­

before and after it. 
Niner 

You will son and do 
Cal{fornia

things no apartmnnt 
State­

or house ean o!Ter. 
Long Beach 

No one can say oxactly what those little occurrences will be. hut rest assured, years from now you'll reminisce about those dorm days. 
Hommnbor the slip-n-slide with show­or curtains down tho hallway? Honwmbnr whnn hundreds of crickets worn dumped in tho hall at 4 a.m. and ernpt into tho rooms? Who can forgot thn dead squid left in tho bathroom loek­nr and that smell? 
Trash eans on lire? Fire alarms every Thursday at 2:30a.m.? 
Such memories may bo popping into y~ur mind years from now, though they may bo even more creative. 

Tho fact of the matter is dorm living requires tremendous patience and understanding of others especially when some guys below you play Halo 24-7, swearing included. Be prepared for things that are beyond normal, if not outright insane. 
People become very odd once you live with them. This is an indisputable fact. Consider the scenario of a dorm: many students usually around the same age get crammed together from different hometowns. Few people know each other already, but are forced to some­how coexist and maybe even become friends. 
You'll see the ins-and-outs of personal lives you wouldn't get by sitting next to him or her in history. Dorms are like a boot camp where you and your newly­found neighbors will share the same adventure and stress for nine months. 
With dorms come neighbors, and with neighbors eome roommates. Roommates are a different breed. Neighbors close their doors and they disappear, but roommates are still there even after you elose your own door. 
To be asked to live with a complete stranger can be a difficult task indeed. However, this job can be made one stop easier by going into the lire with a good attitude. Don't get all hot and bothered by every little outlandish thing your roommate does. Just deal with it. 
If something bothers you enough to the point of screaming, communicate with that other person who is only three feet away. Set up boundaries and guidelines. 
Your roommate can either be your worst eneiny, a complacent dose-by neighbor or a lifelong friend. It's never good to make enemies and a quiet com­panion isn't much fun. 
That leaves the third option whieh is by far the best-view your roommate with an open mind. So what if he looks and smells funny or she wears odd-col­ored dresses on the first day? 
Another thing-dorms are noisy plaees and this is the norm. Noise is the nature of the beast. Deal with it. Luekily, many of' the buildings have thick walls 
that offer some sound-proof' protnetion, 
but living in a communal-style dorm 
means as a community you share thn same noise. 
Noise al'feeting your ability to study'? A suggestion is to move elsewhere, like the eommon area or dare we say, the library. Many of us get very little done in our rooms with the distraction of friends and other trinkets, so going somewhore else is the only way to get down to busi­ness. 
So whether you're an ineoming fresh­man or transfer student, on-campus liv­ing for a year can be the time of your lil'e if you choose to head into its fantastical fury with the right mindsnt. In short, make the most of it. 
This column originally appeared in the Aug. 29 issue of the Daily Forty-Niner, the daily publication at Cal{f'omia .'·)tale­Long Beach. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

page 12 



THE OBSERVER 





CENE 

By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Video game manufacturers typically release their bread and butter games at the same time as the initial release of the game system itself, hoping to rope in customers. In the months following a system's release, there is usually a major dropoff, with most of the subse­quent games hardly worth shelling out any money. The X-Box followed this trend, as "Halo" was arguably the only game worth owning for at least a year following the system's release. 
The PSP, Sony's powerful, pocket-sized gaming system, is no exception to this trend. Following the impressive launch titles, there has been a famine of new titles. The games released since the PSP's launch have been mediocre at best. 
Over the summer, three action games were released for the PSP, hoping to buck the trend. They were all games that held promise, backed by reputable companies popular with garners. However, of the three, only one is worth the $40 price tag. 
The first game released was "Dead to Rights: Reckoning." The "Dead to Rights" series is an established brand­name, but it hasn't been a positive brand as oflate. The two previous games in the series have received lukewarm praise. 
To be honest, the story is merely superficial. No character depth is ever introduced, nor does hero Jack Slate ever do more than go from point A to point B. A plot twist is introduced at the end, but it fails miserably to bear any real impact. 
The plot should not be the draw for this game, however. The action is clearly the main draw here. On harder difficulty settings, "Dead to Rights" becomes a heavily skill-based shooting feast, with bullets and slow-motion diving serving up the main course. 
But although the action can be enter­taining at times, "Dead to Rights: Reckoning" fails to be a worthwhile pur­chase. On the normal difficulty setting, the game can easily be beat in under an hour. The higher difficulties and unlock­able cheats add some replay value, as does the four player multiplayer mode. 
"Coded Arms," released within two weeks of "Dead to Rights," has the dis­tinction of being the first and only true first-person shooter on the PSP. "Coded Arms" follows in the vein of "Doom," another popular monster-based first­person shooter. But many problems plague this game and prevent it from rising above mediocrity. 
The single player storyline is even more forgettable than "Dead to Rights," if that is possible. Valuable plot informa­tion is only revealed in the game manu­al. 
There is too much missed potential in "Coded Arms." It could have been vastly improved by incorporating other charac­ters, perhaps as recurring opponents. Levels, enemies and weapon designs are repetitive throughout the game. The sin­gle-player game's boss battles, which are massive and actually intimidating, are the only positive aspects to the game. It's a shame there are only three of them. 

Control is also a hindrance in the game. Aiming can be tricky due to the lack of any auto-aim or target-lock fea­tures. This hindrance affects everyone over multiplayer equally, so it's not much of a disadvantage in multiplayer mode. Multi-player mode is where the game shines, as it supports four-player game modes for an action experience on the go. 
The last game released was also the most hyped of the trio. "Death Jr." was originally supposed to be a launch title for the system, but missed the original date as the developer wanting to fine­tune it more. 
"Death Jr." definitely shows the love and care invested by its developers, as it is by far the best of the three games released and has the most robust game­play. The story is filled with such weird and interesting characters as Pandora, Dead Guppy and Death's son, the game's namesake. On a class field trip, Death Jr. accidentally releases an ancient evil from a box after Pandora fmds herself unable to open the box herself. 
The gameplay revolves around the player controlling Death Jr. as he attempts to save his friends and return the evil back to the box. Failure could mean losing his friends, getting into trouble at school or, most importantly, ticking off his dad. Honestly, who would want to tick off Death? 
Controlling Death Jr. is a fun experi­ence and surprisingly deep for a hand­held platform game. His weapon of choice, the scythe, can be used in a vari­ety of situations, be it sliding down lines or climbing up ledges. The scythe can even be used as a pogo stick. 
The game's developers stated that they wanted to create an original, recogniza­ble mascot, akin to Nintendo's Mario, but with a gun. Of course, since the famous plumber was already taken, they had to come up with a new mascot. Hence, as the player goes through the game, an increasing collection of guns is found, much to Death Jr.'s delight. 
Two complaints hinder "Death Jr." and prevent it from being the outright game to own for the PSP. The camera can be a chore to control at times, and there's a disappointing lack of a multiplayer mode, something that could have really made this game a must-own. 
But as it stands, "Death Jr." is still the current cream of the crop and bucks the trend of disappointing games released soon after a system's release. Hopefully other game developers will take notice and follow suit. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of gamespot.com 

A summer action-adventure game released on Aug. 16, "Death Jr." follows the misadventures of the title character as he tries to save his friends. 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Creativity is at an all-time low in Hollywood. The biggest movies of the summer have been remakes, sequels and spin-o(Ts. But they also tend to be some of the most successful movies. The runaway success of "Spider-Man 2," a sequel that improved on the original, proved this trend. 
The video game industry is no dif­ferent. When games like "Halo 2" and the legion of "Final Fantasy" games sell as well as they do, it's a knee-jerk reaction for the producers to create more sequels and spin-offs. This sum­mer has exemplified that, with the biggest sellers falling into that catego­ry. 

Madden 2006 
With Madden franchise being the current 800-pound gorilla of football games, its yearly release is highly anticipated by fans. It is the most suc­cessful football license in gaming, and has been that way for many years. The latest Madden capitalizes on updated rosters and new gameplay mechanics. 
Of the updated changes, perhaps the largest would be EA, the game's developer, choosing to revamp the passing design. In previous years, passing was relatively simple, if a lit­tle unrealistic. Scrambling quarter­backs could deftly sling the ball across their body with ease, millisec­onds before sacked. 
A new level of realism has been introduced with the new quarterback vision feature. In order to complete a pass in "Madden 2006," the quarter­back has to be looking squarely at the receiver. Making sure that the pass connects is now fully controllable. Even the quarterback's line of sight must be taken into account. 
"Superstar," a new feature of the gameplay, is a welcome addition, as it allows the player to develop a football persona from scratch, and build his career. Everything from training schedules to the player's parents play a role in this process, adding an almost role-playing quality to the game. 
Not many significant defensive changes have been made from last 

Tuesday, August 30, 2005 
"NCAA Football 2006" is the latest manifestat the "Race for the Heisman" feature, which ....,u.... 
year's incarnation, leaving players on familiar ground. Offensive players also sport the ability to use the "truck stick," their version of the defensive hit stick. With careful timing, the run­ning back can slam the defender off of him, but it slows him down more than a simple juke. -B 

NCAA Football 2006 
"NCAA Football" is to college sports games as "Madden" is to professional ones. It's the most successful college franchise, and like "Madden," a new incarnation is released every year. In the past, it has always been in the shadow of its EA big brother, a trait that has, fortunately, been overcome. 
The new selling point for the series, beyond being faster and more respon­sive that previous versions, is the inclusion of the "Race for the Heisman" mode. As in "Madden 2006," the gamer now has the ability to create a player and follow him through his career. After creating an athlete, it is the gamer's responsibility to get him into a decent school, based upon his performance in training drills. A shoddy performance means poor offers, as well as decreased stats. A good performance means bet­ter offers, and excellent starting stats. 
Fortunately, even if you don't impress Notre Dame with your play­er's performance, you can pull a Rudy and walk on to any team. It makes it harder, however, to get on the fast 

Photo courtesy of gamespot.com 
Conkers, the rude anti-hero squirrel, sits atop his throne In "Conker: Live and Reloaded." This remake Is based on a popular Nlntendo 64 game. 
sion. series, impact the zo there by lent plays. to the game opponent a For your until the Michigan 
A 
Conker: 

The only under the Live and Nintendo Fur Day." been left some the origin never played version, the highly reco adventurous itself too seri 
However, still find t · purchasing er mode revamped,· Live, the X­munity. Thr Nazi-like Te are the pla} ferent cha diversifying 
Fans of" in general, the game. sions and the lumbe looking for choose the is the jack gibles, ther 
Creating a wealth o upon onlin opposition then open abilities fo teammate machinery combinati affects ra motions an "Conkers" c 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, August 30, 2005 
HeatIndex 
Ithe summer t..have games 
-------------------------------------~ 
purchase bncomcs more worthy of considnration. But for those with Live, there's relatively little reason to pick this up, as the primary contnnt can be downloaded free of charge. -C-
The Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction 
While playing "The Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction," it's almost impossible to not stop and feel awed by the sheer chaos garners can cre­ate. While controlling the llul"k, the gamer gets a great feeling of control­ling a multi-ton wrecking ball of destruction. Cars, pedestrians and even busses are sent !lying with the tap of a button. 
Immensely impressive is how well 
Photo courtesy of gamespot.com 

the Hulk's animations were designed.
the popular sports franchise. This year's version introduces 
Unable to fly, the Hulk travels by 
.,.l<>v•a.•c:t to create and train their own superstar athlete. 
bounding throughout the city, off buildings and over rooftops. This cre­nan status. The only drawback to the game is ates a fluid, very dynamic mode of elsn is improvnd or at the steep learning curve, and a depth transportation, with plenty of realism bl11 to last year's ver­that does not quite match "llalo." But as the Hulk lands. Land next to or on a cue from the Blitz those factors aside, "Conker: Live and a car, and the shockwaves sends the .tns can now bncome Heloaded" is a great experience for car !lipping away. Concrete cracks, 
nssnntially going "in action fans.-A-and people run from the Hulk's n impaet player gets arrival in terror. It is truly an enter­t11dly performing excel-Halo 2 Map Pack taining and humorous experience. 
brings an added layer While not a game per se, the "Halo However, the gameplay by itself is ng both you and your 2" map pack offers new levels and not necessarily enough for an enter­for which to watch. updates weaponry for "Halo" veter­taining game. A decent story was football fix, at least ans, giving enough content to warrant tossed in as well, with rogue govern­t home game against heavy consideration. Nine new multi­ment officials and the military breath­, hem's your tieket. -player maps round out the "Halo" ing down Bruce Banner's neck. The experience, with updates on classic missions aren't incredibly varied, and levels like Wizard and Longest. There most of them revolve around the Hulk 
and Reloaded are new maps as well, with some smashing something. Then again, the here that truly falls standouts being the train station Hulk was never really known for espi­catngory, "Conker: Terminal, and Gemini. onage or subtlety. 
nd" is a remake of the Terminal is a fairly symmetrical The closest comparable game is classic, "Conker's Bad level, with train tracks that go "Spider-Man 2." Both of the games single-player story has through the center of the map. Items have free-roaming environments that tivnly untouched. with are placed near the tracks, forcing can be manipulated and explored. s tossed to fans of players to risk their digital lives to However, "The Incredible Hulk" may For those who have obtain key weapons. It's also highly have the more immersive environ­the Nintendo 64 amusing to see an opponent go flying ment due to the Hulk's ability to X-Box remake comes from the speeding trains. smash and modify his surrounding. mendeq. It's a fun, Most of the content on the DVD can Even the skyscrapers can be leveled mp that doesn't take also be downloaded for free off X-Box by the Hulk's power, drastically alter­
Live. Already, most of the maps are ing the game area. of the original will free, with the remaining maps For comic-book fans, this game is a gs to draw them into released free of charge shortly. A must-have. Blowing the previous Hulk 
n game. The multiplay­"Halo" animated short is also includ­games out of the water in every way, s been completely nd on the disc, and is worth a look for "Ultimate Destruction" lives up to its is playable over X-Box hardcore fans. title. -A+ 's online gaming com­However, the map paek is not worth 
dueling faetions of the the disc's $20 retail price. Without Contact Mark Bemenderfer at iz and the good squirrels Live to download the content, the mbemende@nd.edu characters, with dif­acter classes further ganwplay. 
lalo," and onlinn gaming ill lind plenty to enjoy in indirwd to nxplo­artillnry can choose ing l>nrnolislwr. Others littltl morn linnssn might tkPr. Finally, tlw Crunt all tradtlS and for intan­
's tlw Tlwrmophile. 
.play within the game is unloekabln fnaturns basnd ~ pPrformanen. Killing the 
garnnrs mndals, which up improved weapons or ' the charactnrs. llcaling 
and repairing critical narns rnndals as well. A 111 of all those factors ings, which leads to pro-Photo courtesy gamespot.com 
more prnstige with the The Incredible Hulk, a misunderstood green goliath, evades relentless Immunity. attack choppers and ground forces In "Ultimate Destruction." 
page 13 
EVENT REVIEW 

Scripted events, performers doom Video Music Awards 

By BRODERICK HENRY Scene Writer 
Although hurricane Katrina and the shooting of notorious rap label head Suge Knight did their best to thwart the 22nd MTV Video Music Awards, the show was nevertheless broadcast Iivn from Miami Sunday. For the sec­ond year in a row, American Airlines Arena played host to some of the largest acts in music, television and film. 
Over the years, the live pro­duction has come to be less about honoring outstanding music videos from the previous year and much more about celebrity, fashion and fabricated "surprise moments." In fact, it is the surprise moments that have made the show most memorable. 
On this night, the surprise moments were few and far between. It appears the people in charge over at MTV made sure that the show went on without a hitch. 
The orchestrated pageantry for artist arrivals provided viewers a glimpse of what was to come. Stars like Orlando Bloom, Usher, Alicia Keys and lil Jon arrived in yachts and pimped-out rides that the artists did not actually own. 
Solely because it was MTV, a white, rather than red, carpet greeted celebrities who posed for photographers, conducted inter­views and mingled with fans. 
The award show began rather awkwardly with a performance by Green Day from their latest CD, "Boulevard of Broken Dreams." Green Day, the big winners for the night, would go on to collect seven awards for the song's music video, including Video of the Year, Viewer's Choice and Best Hock Video. 
Master of ceremonies for the evening was super mogul and self-aggrandizer, Diddy. True to form, Diddy did not disappoint. lie was his usual conceited, flamboyant self. The fact that the three and a half hour show seemed like a commemoration of Diddy should have benn no sur­prise to viewers. 
Combs' indulgences consisted of nine outfit changes, a dance off with H&B impresario Omarion, conducting an orches­tra to Notorious B.I.G hits, giving a fan a Jacob the Jeweler watch and a $100,000 award for the best dressed male and female superstars. 
The suits at MTV did away with the customary awards show monologue and supplind dips of Beavis and Bullhead for cornndy relief. The two animated charac­ters were not amusing ten ynars ago, and they delinitnly wern not amusing on this night. 
Performers were all over the place when the time came to aetually entertain viewers. 
Shakira sung her nominated hit "La Totura" in Spanish, a VMA first, and reminded men and women alike why they love her so much. 
Ludacris, accompanied by Bobby Valentino and dancers armed with moves from cultures the world over, performed "Pimpin All Over the World." He lived up to his billing as the most versatile rapper in the game with his extravagant perform­ance. 
H. Kelly decided acting out "Trapped in a Closet" sans a microphone or actual supporting actors would be compelling. Viewers are probably still asking themselves about the latest chapter in the life and times of Hufus, Kathy and Chuck. 
"Gold Diggnr," the Hay Charles­inspired hit by Kanye West and Jamie Foxx was palatable. Foxx seems to be basking in the glory of his rncent Osear win a little too much though. 
Yet the most eyebrow-raising performances of the night have to go to Mariah Carey and Kelly Clarkson. Carey, who continues to be promoted as one of the top­selling fernaln artists of all time, appnarnd to bn more like a teen pop tart. While performing an out-of-tune medley of her hits "We Belong Togeth(H" and "Shake it OfT," she showed more skin than a daneer at a strip club. 
Kelly Clarkson was the evening's final pnrforrnnr. The American Idol winner dncided that since her rnicrophorw was not to her liking, she would scream, yell and kiek her way through her hit "Since U Benn Gone." Clarkson nnver found the right key, and as rain poured from the an~na's cPiling onto Clarkson and fans, viewnrs at horne got the picture. She was dreadful, and tho night was a total wash. 
Contact Broderick Henry at bhenry1 @nd.edu 

~~-----~----­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, August 30, 2005 
I I 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Indians have big first inning, keep pace in playoff race 
Wickman records his league-leading 35th save after Cleveland outhits Detroit 
Athletics 10, Orioles 5

Associated Press Four home runs and a baserunning gaffe by the CLEVELAND Jhonny Baltimore Orioles enabled the Peralta, Coco Crisp and Ben Oakland Athletics to take a Broussard drove in two runs wealth of momentum into their apiece as the Cleveland Indians showdown with the Los kept up their late-season surge Angeles Angels. by outslugging the Detroit Nick Swisher and Mark Ellis Tigers 10-8 Monday night. homered off Jorge Julio in a The Indians overcame a five­five-run 12th inning, and the run deficit in the first inning by Athletics completed a four­scoring six times in their first game sweep of the Orioles with at-bat and improved to a major a victory Monday. league-best 19-7 in August. Jay Payton and Dan Johnson After finishing April at only also homered for the A's, 9-14 and in fourth place in· its whose sixth straight win diYision, Cleveland has moved extended their lead in the AL imo a small group of teams West to one full game over the chasing the AL wild card head­idle Angels. The teams begin a ing into the season's final three-game series Tuesday month. night in Anaheim. However, the turnaround has "We battled to get in this not yet captivated the imagina­spot, and we've got to feel tion of Cleveland fans, who are proud about what we've staying away in large numbers. accomplished," Swisher said. Attendance was announced as "We just want to keep it going 22,713, but 5,000 tickets were right now; we just need to keep giveaways. riding that wave." Rookie Fernando Cabrera (2-Oakland scored all its run on 
0) cleaned up after Indians homers. Payton hit a two-run starter Scott Elarton, allowing shot in the first inning and one run in 2 2/3 innings. Rafael Johnson connected with two on Betancourt pitched 1 1/3 score­in the sixth. The A's have 18 
less innings and Bob Howry home runs in their last six worked a perfect eighth. games. 
Bob Wickman pitched the Kiko Calero (3-1) worked two ninth for his league-leading perfect innings to seal 35th save in 40 attempts. Oakland's first four-game 
Wickman, who walks a sweep in Baltimore since the tightrope almost every time A's moved from Kansas City in out, gave up a one-out single to 1968. Magglio Ordonez and walked The Orioles had a chance to the double play no matter said. "This is where the fun Mark Buerhl~ (14-7) gave up Carlos Pena with two outs. The break a 5-all tie in the eighth, where the ball is hit." begins." seven runs -four earned ­right-hander got Craig Monroe putting runners at the corners Third base coach Rick and nine hits in seven innings. to hit a grounder to third base­with no outs against Justin Dempsey, who moved from first Rangers 7, White Sox 5 He came in 7-0 with a 2.21 man Aaron Boone, whose Duchscherer, but pinch-runner base shortly after Perlozzo Rookie Juan Dominguez ERA in 10 career appearances throw to second nipped pinch­Luis Matos held at third base took over for Lee Mazzilli on allowed seven hits in eight against Texas. Down '7-2, runner Nook Logan for the when Sal Fasano hit into a August 4, took the blame. innings, and Mark Teixeira had Chicago closed in the ninth off final out. double play. Brian Roberts fol­"It was bad judgment on my three hits and two RBI to lead Steve Karsay on Juan Uribe's 
Broussard hit an RBI triple in lowed with a groundout. part," Dempsey said. "It wasn't the Texas Rangers over the RBI single, Scott Podsednik's the first off Jeremy Bonderman The A's were amazed that [Matos'] fault at all. It was 100 Chicago White Sox Monday run-scoring grounder and (14-11) and Casey Blake had Matos didn't break for home as percent my fault. He did exact­night. Iguchi's RBI single. three hits for Cleveland. soon as Fasano's grounder ly what I told him to do. I have Dominguez (2-3) gave up two With on one, Doug Brocail 
Dmitri Young had a grand headed toward shortstop. to live with that." runs, struck out three and retired Carl Everett on a slam and five RBI, and Carlos "We felt like we were playing "The third base coach tells walked two in his 11th major groundout for his first save Pena homered for Detroit. with house money when they you to stay, you stay," Matos league start. since August 17 last year 
Down by five before getting failed to run home on that said. "I don't want to look like Mark DeRosa and Kevin against Cleveland. to bat, the Indians rallied for ball," third baseman Eric a bad runner." Mench homered for the six runs in the bottom of the Chavez said. "That was defi­Oakland finally took advan­Rangers, who have won five of Twins 3, Royals 1 first, with Blake's RBI double nitely miscommunication on tage of the mistake in the 12th. seven on their 10-game homes­Nick Punto hit a two-run dou­capping the early comeback. their part. We got lucky; they Johnson led off by reaching tand after a 1-12 trip that ble in the lOth inning leading the As the Indians took the field for had a brain cramp on that third base when Eric Byrnes dropped them from contention. Minnesota Twins over the the top of the second, the small play." dropped his liner to left, and Geoff Blum homered for the Kansas City Royals Monday but appreciative crowd gave Orioles interim manager Sam Swisher followed by hitting a AL Central leaders, who have night. them a rousing ovation that Perlozzo, who spent 14 years 2-2 pitch from Julio (3-4) over lost 10 of their last 15 and are Shawn Camp (1-4) walked lasted more than a minute. as a third base coach, was the right-field wall. Marco 0-3 at Texas this year, getting: Jason Bartlett and Michael Ryan 
Crisp and Peralta hit RBI quick to acknowledge that Scutaro and Jason Kendall outscored 25-8. with one out in the 1Oth and doubles and Victor Martinez's Matos should have been run­both singled before Ellis hit his Chicago made four errors, Punto, in a 2-for-17 slide, dou­sacrifice fly sparked the rally, ning on the play. eighth homer, the fifth in six matching its season high, three bled to gap in left-center. which was helped by Detroit "That's normally an automat­games. by second baseman Tadahito Juan Rincon (6-4) worked out shortstop Omar Infante's field­ic situation that you go, and Three outs later, the A's Iguchi. The three errors by of a bases loaded jam in the ing error. Broussard followed obviously we didn't, so I guess turned their attention toward Iguchi were the most by a ninth and pitched two scoreless the miscue with an RBI triple that comes back to me," he the Angels. White Sox player since short­innings. Joe Nathan got three and Boone's run-scoring infield said. "In that situation, you "I think it will be fun, two top stop Jose Valentin had four at outs for his 33rd save in 36 single tied it at 5. pretty much want to stay out of teams," manager Ken Macha Oakland on April 8, 2000. chances, completing a five-hitter. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Furnished 1 bedroom apt. 2 miles 2001 alum looking to rent out Turtle WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. to NO. A/C, non-smoking, no pets, Creek townhouse MSU weekend TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. WANTED FoR SALE FoR RENT $450/mo. Free laundry, Flexible (9/16& 17) $400 plus full maid 
lease. 289-9365. cleanup on Sunday, negotiable. Call WANTED:4-6 MSU GAs SOCCER REFEREES needed Brand new full mattress & box. Two 2-bdrm condos: Rob {415)845-5445 if interested. together.Dave 248-761-1767 for south side elementary school 18041-B Bulla Rd. & 18027-A Bulla 2 bedroom home within 1.5 miles of located near Erskine Golf Course Still in plastic. $120. Rd. campus. Partially furnished with on Miami St. $975/mo. extra room, washer/dryer, and TICKETS PERSONAL $35 per soccer game. Can deliver. Property Management Svcs 233-kitchen appliances. $750/month. Call574-291-4200. 574-876-4474. 4590. Call 574-250-8552. FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. 
289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't CHILD CARE WANTED: Queen pillowtop mattress set. LODGING FOR FOOTBALL SITE FOR$$: go it alone. If you or someone you 3-year-old twins in our home. New with warranty. Blue & Gold Homes. 2-8 bedroom, GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-www. victorytickets.com love needs confidential support or 1-2 weekdays $155. weekend rentals, furnished, alumni trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and assistance, please call Sr. M.L. {4-8 hours each day). owned. Breakfast Accommodations. Non-BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT-Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. Must provide own transportation. You design lease. smoking, Private Baths, Full BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. For more information, see our bi-Call Kara at 574-621-1540. Can deliver. 574-231-4522. Call250-7653. Breakfasts. 273-3911. weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
r-------------------------­
Tuesday, August 30, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Carpenter wins 19th game, Cards beat Fish 
Eckstein goes 4-for-5 with three RBI in win 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Chris Carpenter came up with another gem for the St. Louis Cardinals, and he hnlpnd the Philadelphia Phillies, too. 
Carpnntnr become thn first 19­gamo winner in tho major leagues and David Eckstein went 4-for-5 with thrne HBI to lwlp St. Louis beat the Florida Marlins (,-J on Monday night. 
Florida missod a chance to tie Philadelphia for the NL wild­l:arrllnad. 
"If Carpnntnr hadn't been out tlwrP, it might haw bonn easi­er," Marlins managnr .lack McKnon said. "lin got in a cou­ple of jams, and hn got out of 
tlwm.  lin  was  tough  in  the  
clutch. That's why lw' s a  19­ 
ganw winnnr."  

Carpnntnr ( 1 1J-4) beat the Marlins for the second time in August and improvnd to ll-0 in his past 14 starts. lin allowed s1wnn hits but only onn run in 7 2/3 innings, stranding fin1r run­nnrs in scoring position. 
"I had romnmnd or my sinker, command or my cuttnr and com­mand or my brnaking ball, and I was abln to throw it whnn I wantnd to throw it and keep tlwm ofT-balance all night." Carp1~11tnr said. 
lin thrnw 94 pitchns bef"ore managnr Tony La Hussa mmovml him with two outs and nonn on in tlw nighth. 
"We·n~ not going to push it," La Hussa said. "That was enough for today, and we'll try to sav11 a fnw bullets for the next time hn pit1:hes." 
Carpnnt11r will bid for his first 20-win season Saturday at Houston . 

.lefT Conine drove in Florida's run with a sacrifice fly in the fourth, ending a streak of 24 consecutive scoreless innings pitchnd by the Cardinals. 
Albert Pujols went 0-for-5 for St. Louis, but Eckstein hit an HBI single in the third and tripled home two runs in the fourth. Teammate Larry Walker hit his 12th homer over the cen­ter l'ield wall leading off the third. 
A.J. Burnett (12-8) lost his seeond start in a row after win­ning seven consecutive starts. lie gave up a season-high six walks, and foul' led to runs ­including one to Carpenter, a .031 hitter. 
Burndt throw 95 pitches in fivn innings and departed trail­ing 6-1. Ho lnrt the stadium without talking to the media. 
"Too many bases on balls are going to hurt you," McKeon said. "lie wasn't on his game." 
MeKeon saved most of his annoyance for first base umpiro Tod Barrett, who ojeeted Paul Lo Duea for arguing from tho dugout after grounding out in the ninth. 
"11<1 was looking for trouble," MeKnon said of Barrett. "What is this game turning out to be? It used to be you muld argue and have some fun. Today you can't say a word. We've got to sit in the dugout with our Sunday sehool Bibles." 
Arizona 7, San Diego 5 
SAN DIEGO -Troy Glaus, Chad Tracy and Shawn Green clearly drovn balls out of Petco Park. 
Kelly Stinnett's high fly ball wasn't quite as clear-cut, leav­ing him with a bizarre inside­the-park home run Monday night as the Arizona Diamondbacks beat San Diego to trim the Padres' lead in the NL West to four games. 

"I'll take them any way I ean get them," Stinnett said. "A home run's a home run. It does­n't matter." 
The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in B11siness and 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the .John A. Berges Endowment) 
"'Business Schools are Pat-tially to Blame for the Corporate Ethics Scandals: Multiple Viewpoints" 
Panelists include: 

Robert Audi, Gallo Professor of Business Ethics Oliver Williams, C.S.C., l)irector ofthe Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business Michael Crant, Professor of Management Barry Keating, Professor of Finance 
All four are faculty members in the Mendoza College of Business at the University of Notre Dame. 
Patrick E. Murphy, Smith Co~Director of the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide will serve as moderator. 
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Arizona has won thn~e straight following a six-game losing streak. The Diamondbacks and Los Angeles Dodgers, who beat tho Chicago Cubs 9-6, are tied for second place. 
San Diego fell to 64-66. It's the latest in a season that a team has led a division with a losing record. · 
With Traey hitting his 20th homer, Arizona is the only NL team to have four players with 20 or more. Russ Ortiz (5-8) won for the first time in seven decisions. 
Stinnett's homer with two outs in tho fourth, off Woody Williams, followed Tracy's two­run shot,· capping the four-run inning for a 5-1 lead. 
Stinnett hit a high lly ball to left field. which Hyan Klesko leaped for at the fence and missed. Tho ball bounced high into the air and foil back onto the field. Third base umpire Bill Welke stretched out both arms horizontally to signal a l~tir ball and didn't gave tho circular motion indieating a homer. 
Stinnett nnver brokn stricto as he rounded the bases, and Welke appeared to point to home plate. Klesko, appan~ntly thinking the ball had landnd beyond the fence before bounc­ing baek, walked over, picknd it up and flipped it into the stands as Stinnett was rounding third base. 
Fans sitting in the first two rows in lnft field said the ball bounced ofT a strip of chain-link fencing stretehnd horizontally between the top of tho padded fenee and a eoncrete retaining wall. 
"I ruled it in play," Welke said. Klesko left the elubhouso before reporters were let in. 
"It's a tough eall beeause I hit it so high and it just camn straight down," Stinnett said. "I just knew I hit it high. I didn't know if it had tho distanen, so I just ran hard. I got to sncond and I saw no sign and I kind of" lot up for a second and thnn all of' a suddnn I saw thn third basn umpirn go 'saf"e.' So, I startnd turning it back on and Carlos !third base coach Toseal at third basn was waving nw in, so I took of"l'. 
"lin gave the 'saf"e' sign like it was in the park," lw said. Welke said that's his way of" indicating a ball is rair. 
Sinen Wnlkn ruh•d that thn ball did not go ovnr Uw renee, tlw decision on how to scorn it was left t.o ofTicial srornr Bill Zavnstoski, who eaiiPd it an insidn-tlw-park honwr. 
"I saw it hit what!wnr and bounce up in tlw air, and Kl1~sko obviously thought it was a honw run," Arizona manager Bob Mnlvin said. "But they said maybe it hit behind tlw pad on concrete. So they should do something about that." 
Attention Seniors: The FulbrightTeaching Assistantship Programs and the Romance Languages: 
Programs and Application Procedures Information Meeting with Professor Alain Toumayan 
Tuesday,August 30,2005 6:30PM Room I 18 DeBartolo 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 16 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVDrs WJRE srRvJcrs Tuesday, August 39, 2005 
NSCAA/Adidas Preseason Men's Soccer Poll 
team prev. record prev. rank 
1  Indiana  18·4-2  1  
2  Maryland  17-6-2  3  
3  Duke  18·6·0  4  
4  UC Santa Barbara  21-2·2  2  
5  St. John's  12-6·4  T-5  
6  Virginia  18·5·1  T-5  
7  Southern Methodist  16·4·1  11  
8  New Mexico  1H·2  10  
9  UCLA  14·4-2  14  
10  Wake Forest  14·5·2  12  
11  VA Commonwealth  12·6·3  7  
12  Creighton  14-4·2  13  
13  UNC·Greensboro  19-3-1  9  
14  Tulsa  12·7·4  8  
15  Boston College  13~5~2  15  
16  NOTRE DAME  134-'3  17  
17  North Carolina  1·9·2  NR  
18  Ohio State  12·7-2  16  
19  Connecticut  12·8·3  22  
20  California  13·4·3  18  
21  Santa Clara  15·6·0  NR  
22  Old Dominion  13·6·2  19  
23  Penn State  1·4·8  T-20  
24  Northwestern  15•6-2  NR  
25  Saint Louis  9•8"1·  NR  

NSCAA/ Adidas Preseason Women's Soccer Poll 
team prev. recorci prev. rank 
1 NOTRE DAME 244•1 1 2 North Carolina 20·1-2 5 3 UCLA 18-7·0 2 4 Virginia 17·3-2 7 5 Santa Clara 18-5-2 3 6 TexasA&M 18-6-8 15 7 Portland 20-4·0 6 8 Penn State 19·3·1 9 9 Connecticut 18-7-1· 13 10 Ohio State 19•4•3·· 8 11 Tennessee 17~5-2 T·11 12 Duke 15-8~0 T·11 13 Illinois 16-6-2 14 14 Stanford 13-6-3 T·19 15 West Virginia 15-6-o NR 16 Boston College 15-.7-1 17 11 Nebraska 14-9-0 22 18 Arizona 15·6.;0 25 19 florida . 16~4~3 21 20 Washington 17•5·1 10 21 Princeton 19-3·0 4 21 Wake Forest 10·7·2 NR 23 Kansas 18-5-0 18 24 California 11-6-3 NR 25 Wisconsin 16-6-1 NR 
Women's College Volleyball Big East Conference 
team conf. overall 
Villanova 0-0 2·0 Georgetown 0·0 1·0 NOTRE DAME 0·0 1·0 St. John's 0·0 1-0 Marquette 0·0 2·1 Pittsburgh 0·0 2·1 Seton Hall 0·0 1·1 Rutgers 0·0 1·2 West Virginia 0·0 1·2 Cincinnati 0·0 0·0 Connecticut 0·0 0·0 DePaul 0·0 0·1 Louisville 0·0 o~o South Florida 0·0 0•0 Syracuse o-o 0·0 


around the dial 
MLB White Sox at Rangers (DH) 4:05 p.m., Com cast Dodgers at Cubs 7:05p.m., WGN 
WNBA PLAYOFFS Indiana vs. New York 6 p.m., ESPN2 Seattle vs. Houston 8:30p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

LAKE FOREST, Ill. ­With a five-year contract in hand and an ear-to-ear grin crossing his face, runniog back Cedric Benson joined the Chicago Bears on Monday and put a drawn-out negotiation behind him. 
The fourth overall pick and the last first-rounder to sign, Benson called it "a great relief" and said it "feels good to be here" during. a news conference at the team's practice facility. 
Terms of the contract were not revealed, but the· Bears reportedly had offered between $17 mil­lion and $17.5 million guaranteed on a deal that could pay $35 million. 
The sides agreed to terms Sunday, ending a 36-day impasse. That hap­pened just three days after an impromptu meet­ing between Benson and general manager Jerry Angelo at the practice facility -and less than two weeks after Angelo released a statement say­ing the team had made its final offer and would start pulling money off the table. 
Thursday's meeting was not a negotiating session, but it might have sped up 
IN BRIEF 

Manning's injury not serious, 
QB will not miss action 
INDIANAPOLIS -Coach Tony Dungy can breathe easier now that Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts offense appear to be fine. 
Dungy said Monday that Manning's bruised left shoulder isn't serious enough to .keep him out of games or practices and that the two-time MVP should be ready when the Colts open the regular season at Baltimore. 
"He has been examined, and he's fine," Dungy said. 
Dungy said Monday after practice that he misspoke Sunday when he told a local reporter that Manning had undergone an MRI, which he had not. 
Manning declined interview 
· requests after Monday's brief prac­tice but was expected to speak Tuesday. The injury occurred when Denver cornerback Darrent Williams sprint­ed, unblocked, into the Colts back­field and sacked Manning in the third 
the process. 

"This did take a lot longer than what we had anticipated," Angelo said. "We never really found that common ground. Usually, you find that com­mon ground at some point the first couple weeks. We didn't really find anything that we agreed upon for quite some time. That cre­ated the long holdout." 
Benson took a condition­ing test Monday but did not practice. c;oach Lovie Smith said he will not play in Thursday's preseason game against Cleveland and is questionable for the season-opener Sept. 11 at Washington. 
A four-year starter at Texas, Benson ranks sixth on the NCAA's and second on the Longhorns' all-time rushing lists with 5,540 yards. He was the fifth back in NCAA history to rush for more than 1,000 yards in each of his four seasons and his 64 touch­down runs r.ank third all­time. 
Benson was expected to challenge starter Thomas Jones for minutes, but the Bears' plans changed as the impasse dragged on. For now, he's third on the depth chart behind Adrian Peterson, and in his own words, starting "from the bottom." 
quarter Saturday. The Colts starters did not return after that series, and Manning later did a sideline inter­view, not mentioning being hurt. Palmeiro benched due to 
shimp 
SAN FRANCISCO Rafael Palmeiro has lost his job as the Baltimore Orioles' regular first base­man, the result of a prolonged slump that began after he returned from a 10-day suspension for testing posi­tive for steroids. 
Mired in a 2-for-22 skid in which he has gone hitless in his last 14 at­bats, the left-handed hitting Palmeiro did not start Monday against Oakland right-hander Kirk Saarloos. 
Asked if he sees Palmeiro as the team's everyday first baseman for the rest of the season, Orioles inter­im manager Sam Perlozzo respond­ed, "No, I don't, but if he would swing the bat he would be. I don't have a problem with playing every­one that can help us on a regular basis." 
Wells loses suspension
appeal 
BOSTON -Red Sox pitcher David Wells will sit out six games for pushing an umpire, failing in his attempt to shorten the suspension on Monday and then blasting Bud Selig for the appeals process and accusing the commissioner of delay­ing Rafael Palmeiro's steroids sus­pension. 
"I don't know what the point was even having a hearing," Wells said before Boston's game against the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. "They said I clearly bumped him and sprayed him with spit. That's coming from a guy that works for the commission­er, so what can you do?" 
Wells accused Selig of retaliating for past criticism and discipline czar Bob Watson of "turning against the players." He expanded his grievance to include Selig's role in declaring the 2002 All-Star game a tie and for the commissioner's handling of the sport's steroid scandal. 
r-----------------~--------------------~-----------­
Tuesday, August 30, 2005 
NFL 
Saints try to keep focus amid storm 
New Orleans preps on road for Oakland preseason game 
Associated Press 
SAN .JOSE. Calif. -With two holes ripped in the roof of their stadium and their city devastat­nd by Hurricane Katrina, focus­ing on football was not an easy task Monday for the New Orleans Saints. 
With Nnw Orleans hit by 145 mph winds, heavy rain and llooding, tho Saints wPre across tho country under dear skies at t.lw San .Jose State campus, prnparing for Thursday night's prnseason game against the Oakland Haidnrs. 
"This has bonn on every­body's mind," said corrwrback .Jimmy Williams, who used to play for tho San Francisco 49nrs. "From whnrn did they lnavn thnir car parknd because it's probably going to bn under­watnt: bncause of the llood to alligators in your house. I ll(Wilr had to worry about that stuff when I played in San Frandsen." 
Williams said his wife, Chandra, and two Yorkshire tnrrinrs accompanied him on tho trip W(~St on the last plane to leavn Nnw Orlnans on Sunday. Slw was staying at the honw of Haidnrs ofl'onsivn line­man Hon Stone, anothor former 
49(~r. 
Otlwr playors wore uncertain about relatives and frinnds left 

behind in the hurricane-buffet­
ed conditions. Most of the play­
ers spent Sunday night in their 
hotel rooms watching television 
to see what was happening 
back in New Orleans. Attempts 
to phone home were largely 
unsuccessful because of over­
loads in the phone system. 
"I slept for only about an hour, if that," said punt return­er Michael Lewis, a New Orleans native. "I watched about everything I could on TV. I had the Weather Channel on all night." 
The storm even ripped two holes in the curved roof of the Louisiana Superdome, where an estimated 8,000 to 9,000 refugees went for shelter. Saints general manager Mickey Loomis said the team was uncertain if the stadium would be ready for the home opener Sept. 18 against the New York Giants. 
Coach .Jim Haslett was pleased with his team's work during the 2 1/2-hour practice and thinks it could help the players bond. 
"The effort in practice today was good," he said. "If we can deal with this, we'll be a better football team in the long run." 
Joe Ilorn said the team gave the players enough time to move their families out of the city if they chose to. lie said he sent his family to Mississippi. lie added that despite the tragedy back home, the players need to focus on their jobs and get ready for the season opener Sept. 11 at Carolina. 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MLB 

Wood to have shoulder surgery 
Cubs pitcher's season-ending operation his latest arm problem 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Chicago Cubs right-hander Kerry Wood will undergo season-ending arthro­scopic surgery on his right shoulder Wednesday and hopes to be ready to pitch by spring training. 
With the Cubs nearly out of playoff competition -7 1/2 games back in the wild card before Monday night's game with the Dodgers --the team wanted to give Wood as much time as possible for recovery and rehab. 
Wood concurred with the decision, general manager Jim Ilendry said. Wood was not immediately available for com­ment. 
Wood, who made· his first major league relief appnarance Aug. 5 in a switch from the rotation to alleviate the sore­ness in his shoulder, was avail­able to pitch Monday night before he is sidelined for the rest of the season. 

The surgery will be per­formed by Dr. Timothy. Kremchek at Beacon Orthopedics outside of Cincinnati. 
"None of us, including Dr. Kremchek, are anticipating anything significant, but it is a shoulder," llendry said, adding that the long-range plan is for Wood to return to the rotation once he recovers. 
"I think that is what we all want him to do. I think that's what he would like to do," Hendry said. 
"If he can pitch pain-free and this ongoing discomfort he's had after a certain amount of pitehes, if that ean bo reetified, then you are going to have the same guy you arn seeing for one inning for seven or eight. That's really everybody's priori­ty." 



Wood, the 1998 NL Rookie of the Year, missed the entire 1999 season after elbow liga­ment replacement surgery. lie was put on the DL with a tri­ceps injury last season and has been on the disabled list twice this year with the sore shoulder. 
Wood is 3-4 with a 4.29 EIV\ this season. lie has started 10 games and made 10 relief' appearances. llis fastball in relief' has been popping in the high 90s, and he's had no recurrenee of the arm soreness, which generally would start after 50 or 60 pitches. 
"I certainly don't think it could be a real significant injury. It's hard to believe some­one could throw 98 mph and have a serious arm problem. lie hasn't had any discomfort at all," Hendry said. 
Trainer Mark O'Neal said it's not uncommon for a piteher who throws as hard as Wood and who has thrown as many pitehers in tho majors to have fraying or irritation in tho rota­tor cull' anm. 
A cleanup pron~dure may bn all that is necessary. That's what tho Cubs oxpnet. 
"We aro going to go in and try to lind out what is going on," O'Neal said. "That's why wn arn doing what wn'rn doing--to find out why he dons have this breakdown whon tho piteh count gnts up a littln." 
O'Neal said if nothing signifi­cant is diseovered during tho proeedurn, Wood will bn rnady for spring training aJtnr an oll'­snason of' rehab. 
As a 20-year-ofd rookie, Wood stunned tho baseball world in his fifth major lnaguo start whnn he struck out 20 llouston Astros and pitclwd a one-hitter. lie missnd tho fol­lowing S(mson al'tnr elbow sur­gery and then had win totals of 12, 12 and 14 from 2001 to 2003, a year in which when ho won two games in the division series against Atlanta. 
But with his arm problems and those of teammate Mark Prior, the Cubs have not made it back to the playofl's. 

Castl~~oiot 
APARTMENTS 
18011 Cleveland R~ad • South Bend, lndiana 46637 
Corner of" Clevefand and Ironwood Road 
Phone (574) 272-8110 • ToJI Free (888) 642-6110 www.cppj.coro 
• Ru.~ines... Center 
• 
rrec Tanning Bed 

• 
Racquet Ball 

• 
llldoor/Outdoor Tennis & Basketball 

• 
Stvimming 

• 
Exercise RoonJ 

• 
Whirlpool & Sauna 

• 
Short-Term Leasing Options 


...... ....,.,~. ' 
.··7':~~· ... ::;:..:.'I'' .... 3 ",,..::·"' ·~». .. ,\... ·~ '. ~t 
-·. ~~Wel~ome:TQ Yo:ur: castle...; ·· ·. ~ 
·.::::~--:-~·~c•~$e. ~.-··:£ve;~ · • •n.t:-· ,·.·,~ :::''\ 
:: .-... ·:. :·: 'Far·F.r:oxn ·ordinary_· ·· <: ·' 
• ¥ ·.~;<'A; ..: ....':, ~..~~' W • ~""' • : ' ' A~' ~. ,: ~:.. : ,:~ J' "
o ' 
' ., ' ' ~ 


• 1-Z BEDROOMS/Z BEDR00~1S WITH LOfT & DENS 
• MONTHLY EXECliTIVE SUITES 


Slz~le'ne (Sizzlelini®)­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender chicken,
Sizzle 
' ' inb 

savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented
Belliniy· 

with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti.
Tuesdays 

B;>-}efie (Bellini) ­A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 

----------~-~----------------~-----------, 
page 18 
that." Chicago is expected to bring
Maroons 
a solid team that will test the 

Belles and alert them of areas
continued from page 24 
that can improve. For 
"For some of these girls, it is Schroeder-Biek, evaluating the their first-ever college volley­different parts of her team will ball experience," Schr-oeder­be one of the main focal points Hick said. "[The scrimmage] during tonight's match. 
will be a good environment for "It'll be a great start because 
The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, August 30, 2005 
it will help identify areas that our team." energy. Everyone was in game need attention," Schroeder­Schroeder-Biek was encour­mode. They're ready to play," Hick said. "It will also test aged by Friday's practice ses­Schroeder-Biek said. individuals such as Amanda sion. The Belles ran through [David]. who will be changing their entire hour-long pre­position. match warm-up. Contact Ryan Kiefer at 
"It will be a good gauge for "They just brought so much rkiefer@nd.edu 


Talk It Oat..•. r 0 n?gister online Walle It Out••. visit 01Jf ~·ebsite~ Walt It Out.•• '''il\~'"'\N .• taketen,org 
Make a difference in a lifer 
*S pe:nd an hOUf a '.:Week "~"'1ritz:"'l yout tean1 in EU1 atea. school teaching violence prevention sk:iDs 
*Choose from a variety ofs,chod..s1 
age groupsi and n1e:et:ll1g t:llnes *T:rainit1g \\'"ill be pro,tid.ed *Federal '\Vork srudy positions 
available 


Come mit onr tillde at acm"ities night:!' Tuesday -~ugu.st 30~ 

l·.l.irr""n~,~ Cuifl;a~ 
mq~l fl£it~@'n~_eq Li 
574.6 3'L94.2 4 
574-.631 '9432 
Watch all Notre Dame Games­Never a cover Mos~ and Largest 

with Student ID Screens in Town GO IRISH 
2046 South Bend Ave Across from Martins Plaza 272-1766 
MONDAY  THURSDAY  
All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets,  2nd Penny night.  
Monday Night Football on HDTV  1¢ wells and drafts,  
DJ plays hits all night long  
TUESDAY  
ND penny night, $1 off cover with  FRIDAY  
student ID, DJ all night,  DJ till 3:00 a.m.,  
1¢ wells and drafts  pre-game warm up  

WEDNESDAY SATURDAY Live trivia night with cash prizes Game day· Go IRISH. and free drinks, 1 to 8 people DJ after games, per team, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. celebrate victory and boogie Defending champs: ND law till dawn. ESPN game plan Legal Eagles. 69¢ bitty burger, 49¢ wings, $10.00 buckets SUNDAY 
$1.50 bugers, dogs, fries and bottles. NFL Sunday tickets · 14 screens. 
NFL 
Titans' Odo111 cures sleep apnea disorder 
difficult on him. lie was not in training camp shape when he NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Antwan returned. for obvious reasons. Odom finally feels alive. But he's worked himself into 
Thanks to surgery that shape now, and he's doing the removed a bone from his nose things we expect him to do," and fixed a crooked septum in Fisher said. June, the sleep apnea that kept Odom had known he suffered the Titans defensive end from from sleep apnea, which stops taking a deep breath or sleeping people from breathing while for more than a couple hours is they sleep, since his sophomore gone. Now he can sleep more year at Alabama. Doctors gave than five hours at a stretch. him a machine to blow air 
Tragically, his 24-year-old sis­through his nose, but it didn't ter Melissa died of complications help him sleep because the air from sleep apnea days before dried out his nasal passages and training camp opened in July. led to sores. Odom, 23, missed the first three It didn't stop him from racking days of camp to be with his fam­up 21 sacks, 26 tackles for loss­ily before returning for his sec­es and 40 quarterback pressures ond NFL season. in college, and the Titans drafted 
He said Monday that being him in the second round last with his teammates has helped year with the 57th pick overall. him through his grief. The 6-foot-5, 27 4-pound Odom 
"Nobody ever died close to me led the rookies with 11 quarter­like that, and I kind of dealt .with back pressures and had two it pretty good. I couldn't deal sacks and a forced fumble. But with it if I wasn't here. It's taken he was so tired he would stand my mind off of it, and I don't up during meetings to keep from think about it as much. I could­falling asleep. n't have done it if I wasn't here," "I always felt dead tired," Odom said. Odom said. ''I'd go to the side­
Coach Jeff Fisher said Odom line, catch my breath and come has a had a lot to overcome. back out. The first play, I'm dead "At the start of camp, it was tired again." '" 
Associated Press 

TH:E CHOICE IS YOURS 
IMPACT· 
YOUR. WOJlLD: 
LAWYER AS PROBLEM~ SOLVER 
• 
The Nation's First Five-Semester Option 


• 
Summer or Fall Start Options 

• 
Dynamic Curricular Tracks 

• 
Earn Your J.D. in as Little as 2 Years 


~UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON -~----SCHOOL OF LAW 
• 
Informational Sessions 

• 
On-line Chats 


For dates, times, ' 
and to RSVP, go to www.law.udayton.edu, click on "Prospective Students and select "Visiting and Events". 

Notre Dame Athletics Invites You to Attend The Inaugural 
DROP THE PUCK DINNER 
Tuesday, September 6 • Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
• Featuring as guest speaker legendary NHL coach and Hockey Hall of Farner Scotty Bowman (former Detroit Red Wings head coach, 
winnlngest coach In NHL history -induding Nine Stanley Cups.) 
• 
Meet the 2005-06 Fighting Irish Hockey team and new head coach Jeff Jackson. 

• 
5-6pm open skate on the Joyce Center Ice Rink 

• 
6-6:45pm autographs with th~ Fighting Irish team. 



• 7pm Dinner Sponsored by Famous -Tkkets.are limited. call the 
Dave's and Speaking Program. Notre Dame ticket office at 1-7356 to order your.; today! 
..NrnTr•,. Dame, Saint Mary's, Tickets only Cross College $10 <;·turf•.,•+o: and Staff 
-~--­
Tuesday, August 30, 2005 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 


lfridlly. Wept:emher 2 
~DALE K-THE COME~PONOTI6T WASHINGTON HALL~ 
SUB MOVIE: "61N CITY" BPM AND fOPM IN 101 DEBARTOLO 
IO,'i"•~~tiUP'\IUIJU, 1&'eptemher a 
SUB MOVIE: "61N CITY" 4:30PM AND 7:30PM IN 101 DEBARTOLO 

~Everything you need for high-speed Internet access. 

Sign up for the SBC Student Plan SBC Yahoo! DSL Express + 
Your Local Access Line 
as low as 
$ 75* 

a month for a g-month term! 
•other monthly charges apply. 
~ 
~ 


Taxes, other charges and the Federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. For details of additional charges, restrictions and requirements, calll-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.com/u. SBC, the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. ©2005 SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. All rights reserved. IN 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, August 30, 2005 
ATP TENNIS 
Nadal ready to take on New York, U.S. Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The love affair begins. 

Rafael Nadal and the U.S. Open are made for each other. He is high-energy personified, a New York kind of guy-big, bold and muscular on court, impossible to ignore in his skintight, sleeveless, Big Apple red shirt and black toreador pants. 
The king of clay, who cap­tured the French Open two days after he turned 19 in June, showed in round one of the year's final Grand Slam event Monday that he can be just as dominating on hard courts. 
Seeded second behind Roger Federer, Nada! unleashed fiery flashes reminiscent of a young Jimmy Connors amid a workmanlike 6-3, 6-3, 6-4 rout of hard-serving American wild card Bobby Heynolds on a hot, muggy 
opening day. 

One point demonstrated Nadal's talents and tenacity. He lunged to return a 123 mph serve by Reynolds, a for­mer Vanderbilt All-American, leapt to catch up to two over­heads and keep them in play, then sprinted in from beyond the baseline to pounce on Reynolds' drop shot and pass him with a winner. The crowd in Arthur Ashe Stadium roared as Nadal dropped dra­matically to his knees and bounced to his feet, punching the air with a left-handed uppercut just as Connors once did. 
Nadal is a far more mature, exciting and efficient player than he was in his first two 
U.S. Open appearances the past two years, when he was sent packing in the second round each time. This has been a breakthrough year for him. He's won not only his first major title but eight 
WNBA 
Connecticut looks to continue dolllinance 
Associated Press 

After coming within a shot of winning the WNBA champi­onship last year, the Connecticut Sun hope to use the experience to their advan­tage this postseason. 
Connecticut steamrolled through the regular season, improving by eight games from a year ago and setting the Eastern Conference record for wins with a 26-8 mark. 

"We are definitely ahead of last ·year because we know what to expect," coach Mike Thibault said. "We know now that even the little things are very important when it comes to winning a championship. Turnovers, rebounds and fouls are all very essential." 
Connecticut and the West champion Sacramento Monarchs (25-9) were domi­nant in the regular season and figure to be the teams to beat in the playoffs. Both had their postseasons ended by the defending champion Seattle Storm last year. 
Sacramento fell in the West finals, the Sun in the champi­onship series. 

"We are a lot more confi­dent," Connecticut forward Nykesha Sales said. "Last year we always had to prove our­selves. This year we know what we need to get to the championship." 
The playoffs get under way Tuesday night, with the New York Liberty (18-16) hosting the Indiana Fever (21-13) in a best-of-three East matchup, and Seattle (20-14) visiting the Houston Comets (19-15) in a West series. 
Connecticut opens a tough first-round series at Detroit on Wednesday night. The Shock (16-18) won three of the teams' four meetings during the regu­lar season, and start five All­Stars. 
"I don't think it means much because we took three out of four from them the year before," Thibault said. "The 
two teams through the course of the last two years are usual­ly separated by a couple of baskets each game. It comes down to who executes." 
Sacramento will face fourth­seeded Los Angeles (17 -17) in Game 1 of their series Wednesday in a rematch of last year's opening-round series. The roles are reversed this year, however, as the Monarchs were the No. 4 seed when they upset a Sparks team that had the league's best record. 
"There are no sure things in the WNBA," Sacramento coach John Whisenant said. "It's been two straight years that we knocked off a higher seed in the playoffs, so we know how slippery that can be." 
Los Angeles, loser of three of four to the Monarchs in the regular season, has been inconsistent due to injuries to forward Mwadi Mabika and point guard Nikki Teasley. The Sparks also had a coaching change earlier this month, when first-year boss Henry Bibby was replaced by Joe Bryant. 
"We're just happy to be in the playoffs," Los Angeles' Chamique Holdsclaw said. "It's a whole new season now. We've got to go out there and bring our best game from this point on. Sacramento (Monarchs) is a. good team, but they're a team that we know we can beat." 
Despite winning five of their last seven games, the Sparks needed a loss by Phoenix on Saturday to get in the playoffs. 
"They have a new attitude about the game again, and they've tried to gather them­selves and dominate like they have in previous years," Sacramento's Yolanda Griffith said. "We just have to play as a team (and) not have a lot of turnovers against them. 
"We have to take care of what we need to take care of­defense, offense -and then go from there. It's the playoffs, both teams are 0-0." 
other tournaments, including Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova. the Montreal Masters on hard A year after she emerged courts two weeks ago, with a from virtual obscurity to win three-set victory over Andre the title, she sprayed shots Agassi in the final. wildly in a 6-3, 6-2 loss to fel­
"The last two years when I low Russian Ekaterina was coming here, I was play­Bychkova and became the ing very, very bad ... but the first U.S. Open defending worst moment in the year women's champion to fall in [was] when I come to the U.S. the first round. Open," Nadal said. "I think There was little surprise in now is a little bit different, · Kuznetsova's early ouster. no?" She's been struggling to find 
Yes, it is very different. her rhythm all year and came 
It is very different, too, for into the Open with a mediocre 27-14 record and no titles. 
''I've learned a lesson and it's tough," she added. "But the tough things make you grow stronger and make you learn. What do I do, kill myself? No. 
"I know how you feel when you don't have any gas and you can't go anymore. I think it's something else," she added. "I have to find out what that is. It just takes a while to learn it. It takes a while to play with pressure." 
Vehicle Rentals for Community Service 
~.,...........-;.z"':"".."".!<'~~
-,, .. ,.. __..,..,,., ~t.-1-.•. ,,'{
'0'~::~:~~~-~:~ #~~ ·:~~ ~) 

Due to the new services offered.by the South Bend Transpo bus system, the Center for Social Concerns will no longer be providing vehicle rentals for students who "\vish to perform community service in the surrounding area. Bus usage will now take over as the primary form of transportation for all service needs; however, there will be some exceptions. To learn about the new policies, procedures, and bus routes to specific sites, please come to the TRANSPORTATION INFORMATION NIGHT on September 1st from 7 to 8 in the multipurpose room at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The first vehicle rental day will be on Tuesday, September 6th. 
The new deadline for the submission ofvehicle request forms is Thursday by 5:00 p.m. 
If you need transportation before the first vehicle rental day, please call 233-2131 for bus route information. 
If you have any questions, please contact Joanna Basile, CSC Transportation Coordinator, at cscvans@nd.edu or by phone at 1-5319. 
Are you interested in learning more about being  
Confirmed here at the University of Notre Dame?  ~  
" '  
Information Sessions: -Sunday, September 4th -2:00-3:00pm  
Tuesday, September 6th -7:00-S:OOpm  
Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center Contact: Fr• .John Conley 631-7888  
or  
John 8t Sylvia Dillon 631-7163  
C-M  

Tuesday, August 30, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Piane 
continued from page 24 
moot. "[Our goal is to finish) bettor than elnventh," he said. 
Notrn Dame roturns six of snvnn rogulars from last soa­son. induding front-runners Kurt Bonninger, Tim Moore and Kaleb Van Ort. The trio linislwd 42nd, 43rd, and 96th, respnctivPiy, at tiHl NCAA's. 
The Irish open thn s1mson as tlw lwavy favoritn to win tho Valparaiso Invitational on Snpt. 1J. l'iarw said ho is plan­ning to rnst Bnnningcr and Van Ort for tlw nwnt in ordor to havn thnm frnsh for thn rnst of the soason and to give youngor runrwrs a chanee to shirw in regular snason eom­lllltition. 
A wonk latM, Notre Damn hosts thn National Catholie Championships at tho Burke Memorial c;olf Course. The Irish havo won nach of the last tnn installnwnts or this meet. which dat11s back to 19SO and is a nxturn in the early part of tho schoduln. Moore won the. 11vnn t last ynar. and, as one of Notro Damn's l'astost runners, is' poisnd to do it again. 
Two wonks latnr. tho Irish will host the 50th running of tho Notrn Dame Invitational at Burkn. Tlw mont is one of th11 oldnst continuously run com­pntilions in tlw n a lion. The Irish will compote with Stanford, the dnfonding cham­pion, for the top spot. 
Tlw two meets are pnrma­nnnt l'ixturns on tho Irish slatn, l'iann said, whieh gives Notrn Damn two guaranteed home n11wts a year -some­thing ho says is helpful to tho 
lllillll. 
Sinco Burke is a golf course, its trail is almost eompletely flat, and coaches often worry tlwir teams will fall behind whnn foreed to run on hillier 
trails. 
But Piane is not eoneerned. 

"You don't have to run hills every day to be good hill run­ner, especially if your kids are good athletes like ours are," the eoaeh said. "But we are working on th11rn." 
Piano also said the team will run hills at Tuesday's praetiee. 
The Burke eourse loops around itself several times, cris-crossing around the golf course's nine holes. 
Onee into October, the Irish gear up for snveral important post-season meets. First, tho pre-national meflt will take place on Oet.15 in Terre Haute, Ind. There the Irish will compete with teams from across the country and be able to judge whern thoy stand with regard to the national championship eon­tnnders. 
Two wneks later, Notre Dame will travel to Van Courtland Park in Bronx, N.Y for the Big East Championships. The Irish are defending champions and should be favored to repeat, although Georgetown, who finishnd only one point out of first in 2004. could present a major challenge. 
Piano said thn tllarn is exeit­

nd  to  run  at Van  Courtland  
Park,  a  vnnerable  course  the  
Irish know wnll.  

Two wneks after the Big East moet, Notrn Damn travnls to Indiana University for the Creal Lakes Hegional. a prn­eursor to the NCAA Championships. After that comes the IC4A Championships baek in the Bronx, follownd by thll elimax of the season -the NCAA Championships in Terre llaute. 
Favorites to win include Colorado, Wisconsin and Arkansas. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Make a difference ... 
Tutor a child  
• Tl'TOR :..ron & \\ed  
or T ues & Thurs,  
3:30-4:30 or  
·U0-5:30prn  
t Work StudY and  
Vohmteer positions  
aYllili.ble  
t Three different  
tutOring sites in the  
c6mmunitv  
t Tutor training the \\'hen you become a tutor, you become a mentor.  
week of Sept. 5-9  
Help a child leam to read and make a difference in + Transportation unity! 
prmided FREE by their life. Impact the South Bend comm 
Transpo Bus "' Get involved... tutor at the RCLC!  
ROBINSON  
CO:\l:MtiNITY  
LEARNING CENTER  
921 North Eddy Street  
South Bend, IN 46617  
Contact Kim Croy  Celebrating Learning...  
Volunteer Coordinator at Phone: 631-9427  One Relationship  
Email: kim.croy.l@nd.edu  at a time!  

NFL 

Broncos call Clarett a mistake 
Denz;er coach Shanahan lets go ofhis third rounder 
Associated Press  
DENVEH ­The reason run­ 
ning back Maurice Clarett  
isn't with the Denver Broneos  
anymore is pretty simple.  
"We have four guys I believe  
ean play," eoaeh Mike  
Shanahan said.  
And Clarett never made his  
way into that mix.  
The Broneos returned to  
practice Monday and  
Shanahan answered questions  
about why he deeided to  
waive Clarett. the surpriso  
third-round draft ehoiee who  
was slowed by a groin injury  
and never made any impaet in  
Denver's training eamp.  
That Clarett was a bust isn't  
a shock to most around the  
league. He was out of football  
for two years and performed  
badly at the NFL seouting  
eombine -and that's to say  
nothing of the troubles he  
endufed ofT the field.  
In Denver. tho piek is being  
viewed as a bad example of  
hubris for Shanahan, "the  
Mastermind," who has turned  
lower pieks -like Terrell  
Davis. Hueben Droughns and  
Mike Anderson -into stars  
and probably thought he  
could do the same, even with AP  
a prospeet as eheekered as Maurice Clarett, a once standout running back at Ohio State, 
Clarett. was cut by the Denver Broncos Monday. 
To his eredit, Shanahan did­ 
n't linger on this mistake,  
deeiding to eut ties quiekJy  you feel like you made a mis­ he planned on getting Clarett  
instead of forcing something  take," Shanahan said. "When  some playing time Friday in  
to work. And the eoach eon­ you do that, you make a mis­ Denver's preseason f'inaln  
ceded he did err by pieking  take and you go on. At least  against Arizona. But when  
the star of Ohio State's 2002  you evaluate it. That's not to  Quentin Grif'lin made his pre­ 
national championship.  say that Mauriee doesn't have  season debut last Saturday  
"I think any time you eut  a ehance to go to another  against the Colts and showed  
somebody in the third round,  football team and make that  his surgically repaired knee  

team and eon-tribute. But in a true evaluation of your own organization, . when you use a third-round draft ehoiee and he does not make your team, obviously it's not good." 
The Broneos had not offieial­ly announced their euts as of Monday after­noon. When Clarett does officially land 

"/think an.lJ time you cut somebody in the third round, you feel like you made a mistake. When you do that, you make a mistake and you move on. " 
Mike Shanahan Broncos coach 
was healthy, the Broneos knew they had their foursome at tail­back: Grillin, Hon Dayne, Tatum Bell and Mike Anderson. 
Meanwhile, Cecil Sapp can play tailback and fullback and will likely earn a ros­ter spot. 
"I felt so good about the run­ning baeks and what they've done," Shanahan said. "I wasn't 
on waivers, teams will have 24 hours to daim him and the incentive-laden eontraet he signed with Denver. 
More likely is that Clarett will beeome a free agent, free to negotiate a new deal with anyone. 
''I'm not real confident of anything at this point," Clarett's agent, Steve Feldman said Sunday. "We'II see what happens now." 
Clarett missed about two weeks of praetiee with a nag­ging groin injury that prevent­ed him from making the trip to Houston. where the Broneos praetieed three days and played the Texans in their preseason opener. 
When the Broneos returned from the trip, Shanahan was no longer in the mood to defend the player he took a ehanee on, saying instead that he eouldn't evaluate Clarett if he wasn't at praetiee. 
Last week, Shanahan said 
going to give him playing time and take away from our other four."· 
Seeond-round draft piek Darrent Williams said Clarett got down about his lack of reps during practices. 
"I tried to give him encour­agement. At times he was down beeause he was used to starting," Williams said. 
Hardly anyone thought he had a ehanee to start for the Broneos. That he never played a down, not even in the pre­season, came as a surprise. 
"We've made mistakes before," Shanahan said. "We'll make mistakes in the future. Just beeause we draft somebody in the third round doesn't mean they're auto­matically going to be on our football team. We've eut our first-rounders, second­rounders before. You don't f'nel very good about those scenarios, but they do hap­pen." 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, August 30, 2005 

Weis 
continued from page 24 
Irish 41-38 on Nov. 13, 2004. 
Weis and his squad will finally get their opportunity Saturday when Notre Dame takes on Pittsburgh at Heinz Field. He intends to focus his attention this week on what plays and packages first-year Pittsburgh coach Dave Wannstedt and his Panthers will run against the Irish. 
"One [of the things you have to do when you get to a game week] is you have to get ready to play your opponent in the 
schemes they 

"One [of the things 
use," Weis said. ty to adapt men­
"The only prob­you have to do when tally and be 
lem with doing you get to a game ready to go. I just that in went through 35
week] is you have to
practice is that substitutions on
get ready to play
you can't simu­consecutive late the speed of your plays on differ­the game. ent special
opponent in the
Because when teams, and there 
you put show schemes they use." was not one sub­teams out there, stitution error." it's always at a Charlie Weis Weis will not much slower work the team
Irish coach 
pace then when you're going first [team) against first [team]." 
To combat this problem, Weis scheduled time for the first-team offense to run against the first-team defense. He also has had each first­team unit run against reserves -resulting in practices that address both the speed of the game and the schemes Pittsburgh will run. 
"I think you've got to have enough ammunition on offense and defense to do a lot of different things," Weis said. "Because what I don't want to do is go into a game with a game plan and then all of a sudden be pigeonholed because they're doing some­thing different than I expected and not having somewhere to turn -that's when you get stomped on." 
Though Weis' former team, the New England Patriots, faced Wannstedt's Miami Dolphins twice a year while both were coaching in the AFC East, he is still unsure about what to expect from the Panther defense. 

"There's some uncertainties going in, but I think it's really important in your own prac­tice to cover both the schemes you're going against on offense and defense while not forgetting about the speed of the game," Weis said. 
Weis focused much of last Friday's practice on pre-game routines and also how to han­dle end-of-game and special teams situations. 
"Some of it was pretty, some of it wasn't pretty, but it was a very good learning experi­ence," Weis said. "Although you can't practice every unforeseen thing that happens in a game, I feel this team has shown the abili­
physically hard 
this Friday, as 
he hopes to keep them fresh for Saturday night's game. 
"Friday has to be mental, not physical," Weis said. "Friday is a day you're saving [the player's] legs and hydrat­ing them and getting them ready to go so there are no excuses on Saturday." 
Notes:· 

+ Weis dined separately in the past two weeks with for­mer Notre Dame coaches Ara Parseghian and Lou Holtz, who both captured at least one national title during their time in South Bend. 
"These are people that understand Notre Dame as much if not more than I do, and I'm trying to use them as resources to help guide me in the right direction," Weis said. "Just hearing Ara's approach from the first year he got here to the last year he left was a very educational experience." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Henican 
continued from page 24 

posure on the court, 1-Ienican has tried to stay focused and easy-going throughout this trying week. 
"It was just really fun to finally play [Saturday]," she said. "-We've been having double days and practieing for so long since the begin­ning of August, so it was nice to get out on the court and kind of let our team develop a little bit. We did a lot of good things, and we saw a lot of things that we need to work on." 
Henican, who also serv()d as a captain last season, is only the lOth multiple-year captain in Notre Dame volley­ball history. She needs 485 digs this season to break the Irish career record. 
After a solid first game, Henican is eager to take on two top teams this weekend in No. 11 Texas and Arizona State. 
"We're just excited to get back on the court." she said. "We have a lot that we can just fix !this week in prac­ticeI. Just being low on cover­age and little things like that. [And] some blocking that we need to work on." 
So, despite all the possible distractions this week, the even-keeled Ilenican has kept her cool. 
While she is concerned about her hometown and hnr friends, when the Irish take the court against the Longhorns and the Sun Devils, llenican plans to keep her mind on volleyball -a welcomed distraction from life's worries. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.eduu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Purdue guard files lawsuit 
Boilermaker Nwaneri 
was suspended after fighting a teammate 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Purdue 
football player Uche Nwaneri 
believes the school's decision 
to suspend him could rob him 
of his pro football dreams. 

So he's taking the school to 
court. 

Purdue suspended Nwaneri 
for a semester after a July 
fight with teammate Ryan 
Noblet left Noblet with a bro­
ken jaw, and the Campus 
Appeals Board upheld it last 
week. 

A preliminary hearing in a 
Tippecanoe County court was 
scheduled for Tuesday morn­
ing. Nwaneri's attorney 
Courtney B. Justice said he 
hoped Nwaneri would be 
reinstated until a formal 
hearing takes place. They court. were not seeking damages. "It is especially hard for me 
The 6-foot-3, 313-pound left because I love Purdue and I guard started all 12 games respect and admire my pro­for the Boilermakers last sea­fessors and coaches who are son and was to be a senior giving me a first-elass educa­this year. If he is not reinstat­tion -in the classroom and ed, his Purdue on the football career would field." be over. Noblet, a 6-foot­
'This is pretty 
Justice said 6, 291-pound jun­
devasting to his
the suspension ior, was granted a will cost chances to do well release from Nwaneri valu­Purdue after the
after college. " 
able time on altercation and the field. has enrolled at 
Courtney B. Justice
"This is pret­Arkansas. He was ty devastating attorney listed as a sec­to his chances ond-team offen­to do well after sive tackle after college," Justice said. "That's Purdue spring practices. one of the things he's deeply Arkansas athletics concerned about."· spokesman Kevin Trainor said 
Purdue spokesman Brian Noblet intends to play football Zink said the school does not and was scheduled to take a comment on pending law­physical this week. He would suits. be ineligible this season 
Nwaneri said in a statement because he transferred from that he did not want to go to another Division I program. 
International Study Programs 

INNSBRUCK and Berlin 
2006-2007 Academic Year 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program Information Session 
Wednesday, August 31,2005 118 DeBartolo 7:00PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud Questions?-Weber.15@nd.edu Application Deadline: Nov. 15,2005 

Tuesday, August 30, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

A&F 
ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJ~WJ~J].
Unscramble these four· Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
BOINS 

I I I tJ 
02005 Tribune Med1a Serv~ces, Inc. 
r7i~fl 
TANNIE 
I I I 
www.jumble.com 
GLUBIN 

j 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as

I I r rJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answrr here: 

"( I I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: JULEP PATIO BUSHEL TOUCHY Answer: How she felt when her cobbler recipe won the blue ribbon -JUST "PEACHY" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Figure-skating 58 "The Joy of division Cooking" author 
1 Observe Yom 
Rombauer

Kippur 34 Judo setting 59 Like the Vikings
5 Small snack 
36 401 (k) 

60 Boxer Max 
9 Foxhole, alternatives basically 61 Without ice
37 Moves a muscle 14 Darth's son 62 Hopping mad 
38 Word processor 15 Immunity item command 63 Part of a on "Survivor" 
venetian blind 39 Giants 
64 Othello, e.g.
16 --·Gay outfielder Mel 
(W.W. II plane) 
40 What a 

11 God who rode DOWN
bloodhound 

an eight-legged 
tracks 1 Move like lava 
horse 
41 Wing, perhaps 2 Carmaker from 
18 Latch (onto) 
Bavaria
42 It's one's word 

19 Disastrous 
3 Tattoo artist's 20 "Everything other "canvas" can't work out 
against the 
4 Causes of stress
45 Pound sound 

pertectly" 
5 Whopper rival 
46 Pear-shaped

23 Actress Lupino 
fruit 6 Just chilling 24 Binary digit 
7 Hammer or hoe
47 Not continuous 

25 Tactic during 
a "Tickle me" guy 

police 56 Place with a questioning "vacancy" sign 9 Keeps safe 1o"Very soon" 
32 The Amish raise 57 Folk singer them Guthrie 11 The Wizard of Oz's exposer ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Littleneck, e.g. 
13 Robust 21 Part of a sweepstakes's fine print 

···g!~~~ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
25 "Wayne's World" sidekick 
..;,;..+.;.;+=+::-! 26 Speak at length 27 Was decisive 
28 Minor nuisances 
29 Blessed event 
Muscat 31 Put asphalt on 
WILLSHORTZ 

32 Story of one's 43 Most like a 50 Catches in the life swami act 
35 Country singer 44 Attempt 51 Spoken Ritter 47 Magazine that 
52 Small circus 37 Heinlein's genre pertormer
had a "UFO Update"

38 Laying .hold of 53 Square footage 
40 Frozen dessert 48 Jordan's Queen 54 Islamic holy man brand 
55 "Six Feet Under" 41 Where Tibet is 49 (jlllette brand character 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HOI~N ON THIS llAY: Laur.:n Collins, 19; Dante Basco, 30; Robin Leach, 64; Rebecca De Mornay, 43 
Happy Birthday: You may have trouble making up your mind, and Ihat will hold you back this year. Start jumping in with both fc.:t. doing whatever has to be done to get you where you .:nvision yoursclfheing. You hav.: so much insight this year that you shouldn't be second-guessing your .:very mov.:. That is only a waste ofvaluahlc time, b.:ttcr used f(Jr accomplishing. Your numhcrs arc 13. 15, 17, 29, 34,46 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Stop taking .:verything so seriously. If something doesn'tturn out the way you want, don't sweat it. Get hclp if you need it and work on projects you know you arc good at. • • TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't fool yourself into thinking you don't ne.:d help to get things done. Plenty of people will be willing to work alongside you, but they won't be willing lo lake qrders. Usc diplomacy. •••• GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): This is a great day to be creative or fall in love all over again. You will be in an affectionate and loving mood. Reevaluate your motives and where you see yourscl f headed in the future. • •• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your emotions will be a little over the top today, but as long as you are giving and project kindness, you will do just line. Watch out for someone who is trying to take advantage of you linancially. •• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll have the wherewithal to make some very creative changes in your life today. Although not everyone will agree with what you are doing, follow through and ignore the fact that some people around you lack vision. An older relative may be a burden. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): As long as you try to get along with everyone around you, you can reach some degree of success today. What you do now is what will count in the future. The more accepting and adaptable you arc, the further you will go. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Arguing will get you nowhere. Being responsible for your own actions is the best you can do. Put financial ventures with family members or friends on hold until you have a better understanding of what is involved. •• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): This is the perfect day to meet new people and fonn new friendships or work relationships. Put together a proposal and promote what you are working on, but don't present just yet. ••••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): No more waiting around for someone else to pick up the slack. Get moving and take responsibility for your future. It is worth taking a short trip to visit someone who can help you sort out money problems.*** . CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll be up and down regarding personal issues. Take a trip to get a change of scenery. Your uncertainty is probably making the people around you nervous. Try to avoid emotional encounters. • •• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take the time to make some personal improvements. Educational pursuit~ orjust updating your looks will help. lfyou decide to keep things the same, you can expect to make very lew gains. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look on the bright side today and you will lind positive ways to develop new interests, friendships or partnerships. Romance will be prominent. Your uniqueness will lead to greater options. ••••• 
Birthday Baby: You have an elegant way of presenting yourself. You are gracious and accommodating but still manage to stay in control. You an: compassionate and fair. 
Eugenia's Weh sites: astroadvice.comfiJr/im. eugenia/ast.comfiJr cmrtidential consultation.\· 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

-----------------:---;-:-----, 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, August 30, 2005 
page 24 

FOOTBALL 

Irish poised for Panthers 
Notre Dame eager to kick off season Saturday at Pitt 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
He's moved into his house. lie's spoken to students and alumni. lie's roerui~ed play­ers. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis has done 
everything he's been expected to do in his first eight 
months  on  
the  job  
except  one  
thing  


coach a foot-Charlie Weis 
ball game. 

"''m just looking forward to getting into the season and giving these players the ~ opportunity to go out there and have some fun," We is said. "Because the last I checked, they didn't have a whole [heck] of a lot of fun the last time [Pittsburgh and Notre Dame] played." 
The Panthers defeated the 
see WEIS/page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles begin year against Maroons 
Saint Mary's and Chicago renew their rivalry tonight 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Wri rer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team will begin its season tonight when the Belles take on the University of Chicago in a home scrimmage. The match against the Maroons will continue a recent tradi­tion of opening the season with a scrimmage between the two teams. 
The Belles are anxious to return to the court this year, attempting to improve upon last year's six-win campaign. Saint Mary's looks to have an excellent chance of both improving their win total and moving up the MIAA stand­ings. 
Junior outside attackers Michelle Turley and Kristen 
Playko are expected to lead the hitting for the Belles, while Shelly Bender is expected to provide senior leadership at middle attack­er. Junior Amanda David will shift positions and handle the setting for the Belles. 
Tonight's scrimmage will allow coach .Julie Schroeder­Biek the flexibility to try players at different positions and to get a feel for her team's strengths and weak­nesses. While her rotations may be different from a reg­ular game, Schroeder-Biek was quick to point out her desire to see the players pre­pare as though the contest counted. 
"I want [the players] to approach this as they would any other game. I want them to compete," Schroeder-Biek said. 
She also viewed this match as an opportunity to work out some early season jitters. 
see MAROONS/page 18 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Hurricane-hits close to Henican 
New Orleans native's family stays safe during storm 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 

So far, Meg Henican, a native of New Orleans, La., has dealt with hurricane Katrina's bat­tering of her hometown just as she deals with the game of vol­leyball -calmly. 
"It's actually a pretty good distraction -something else to focus on," she said. 
"My family has all evacuat­ed. They are doing well ... and most of my friends, too. They are all safe. I haven't really been able to keep in touch with anybody because the phones don't work, so that's a little frustrating, a little nerve­wracking." 
Her parents were in town last weekend for the Michigan match, so they decided to stay for the week, long enough to keep their daughter company and to watch this weekend's Inn at Saint Mary's Shamrock Invitational. 
"I try to keep my friends around, and my parents are here," 1-Ienican said. "They are 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Excite111ent high about ho111e races 
Notre Dame will be at home in two of three Sept. meets 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sporrs Writer 

The men's cross country team has three meets in September. Two of them are at home, and the other is a mere 60 miles away in Valparaiso, Ind. 
Coach Joe Piane feels com­peting early on familiar turf is a g-ood way to prepare for road trips to New York for the Big East Championships and the IC4A Championships. 
"The meets progressively get more important as the season goes on," he said. 
Piane expects a successful season, as the Irish try to improve on their eleventh place finish at last season's NCAA National Championship 
see PlANE/page 21 
WER 

Meg Henican goes up for a spike in an Aug. 27 match against Michigan. The Irish won 30-24, 30-16 and 30-26. 
here to help me cope with She enjoys the game. She everything." relaxes. And she certainly 
The senior libero/outside hit­doesn't panic. ter and co-captain is already .Just as she keeps her com-showing why she was given her title. see HENICAN/page 22 


NFL  ATP TENNIS  MlB  NFL  MUS  MlB  
LLI  
u z ::5 = ~ !i  Denver released back Maurice Clarett on Monday after failing to perform well this fall.  Rafael Nadal, French Open champion, is ready to compete in the U.S. Open.  Kerry Wood will have season ending surgery in order to get a head start on his rehab.  The New Orleans Saints are preparing in San Jose for their game Thursday with Oakland despite the hurricane in their home city.  St. Louis 6 Florida 1 St. Louis defeated Florida as Chris Carpenter won his 19th game of the season.  Cleveland 10 Detroit 8 Cleveland defeated Detroit to stay in wild card contention.  
page 20  page 20  page 17  page 17  page 15  page 14  





