
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students abroad experience pope's funeral 
Pilgrims flood Roman streets to pay tribute 
By RICKY McROSKEY 
News Writer 
HOME -During the past sev­~~ntl wonks, Nolrn Damn studnnls studying in Home havn had llw uniqun opportunity to witness llw 1wents surrounding Pope .John l'aul If's final days, l'ol­low11d by Uw tremendous out­pouring ol' love and rnspect whnn hn was laid to rnst. 
Tlw week's evPnts condudPd with the pope's l'uneral Friday, an evPnl watched around the globP by tens ol' millions -the largest l'uneral in history. l'rnsidPnts. prime ministers and dignitaries f1ocked in !'rom all ovPr the world to attend. 
Ilownver. the sizP ol' the crowd mlule it rwarly impossibln for Notre llarnn students to be insidn St. Peter's Square !'or the Mass, and even some Vatican priests weren't able to obtain tickets. Sonw students stood in 
see NO/page 6 
Above, Pope John Paul II lies in state. At right, mourners gather at the Vatican in Rome for funeral servzces.
•
PHOTOS BY THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Pontiff's last days remenzbered fondly 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
HOME -A<> lhP world looknd on and mourned the death of' Pope .John Paul II, many Saint Mary's students were ablP to experience the events surround­ing it firsthand. 
Students studying abroad in Home this semestnr spnnt snver­al hours this week wailing in line to view the pope's body, fighting crowds, or even camp­ing out on sidnwalks to bn a part or the historic event. 
Prior to the death ol' Pope John Paul II, many Saint Mary's students had a chancn to takn part in papal audim1ces or bless­ings. 
Sophomore Allison Beyer was one of a few students in alton­dance at the pope's final papal audience in late .January, one of his last public vocal blnssings. 
"There has been so much to 
see SMC/page 4 
SMC announces '72 graduate as cotntnencetnent speaker 
and 1972 graduate, will deliv­dent of Xerox Diane Daly nationally for her work wi.th degree from Saint Mary's inl\y NICOLE ZOOK 
er the 2005 commencement McGarry. abused children and children May.
A...,istam News Ediwr 
address May 
Marketing Communications with HIV after serving as Also receiving degrees arc 
14. director Nick Farmer said he director of the University of' Sister Marian Teresa Gomes, 
It won't be the first time the Squires believes Squires is an excel­Texas Southwestern Medical CSC and Heifer Project women in a Saint Mary's joins a list lent choice for graduation Center's pediatric IIIV clinic, International. graduating class will hear of notable speaker and will greatly add program for Referral and Gomes is the former area words of wisdom from a dis­Saint Mary's to the ceremony. Evaluation of Abused Children VII coordinator for the Holy tinguished former Belle at women who "Saint Mary's is proud to (REACH) and division chief of Cross Sisters and the prosi­commencement. have retu­welcome Dr. Squires back to the University's General dent of Holy Cross College in 
Jarwt Endress Squires, M.D.. rned to their campus," he said. "She's a Academic Pediatrics. Squires Dhaka, Bangladesh. Undor director of the division or alma mater prominent physician, an edu­received awards from the Gomes' direction, Holy Cross child advocacy for the to give such Squires cator and a strong voice for Texas Pediatric Society, Fort was recognized as the best Children's Hospital of a · speech, children, and I think she'll Worth Star-Telegram, Dallas university in Bangladesh in Pittsburgh, professor of pedi­including author and 2003 offer an inspiring message to Business Journal and 2003. atric nwdicine at the speaker Adriana Trigiani and the class of 2005." Children's Miracle Network. Pittsburgh School of' Modieine last year's speaker, vice presi-Squires has been recognized She will receive an honorary see SQUIRES/page 6 
First campus-wide food drive succeeds 
By KATIE WAGNER 
News Writer 
Notrn I>arnn students imple­nwrllPd tho University's first 1w n1· c a 111 pus-wid e ean ned food drive Saturday, donating a II goods to l he Nor lllll r n Indiana Food Bank. 
Mon~ than I00 studnnts col­lndnd approximatnly 4,000 lbs of' f'ood during tho food drivP, which took place hntwnnn I 0 a.m. and 4 p.m. on Saturday. 
Saturday's aetivitins con­eludnd with Univnrsity I' r ~~ si dn n t Em e r itu s Fa l h e r 
Theodore llesburgh blessing the donated food items at the Stepan Center at 4:15 p.m. 
Co-coordinators Patrick Corrigan ar1d Matthew Hughes said a "lofty" goal of collecting 10 tons of' f'ood was set. But "ltlw outpull was hard to pre­diet for tho first y11ar," Corrigan said. 
"I wish we would have reached our goal, but I was not disappointed with the el'l'orts," he said. "I was thrilled with the amount of people that came out and the enthusiasm." 
see DRIVE/page 4 
SAGA faces limited backlash 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saim Mary's Editor 
Speculation that the Saint Mary's administration and possibly President Carol Mooney herself would inter­venn in the March 21 Board of' Governance (BOG) approval of the Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) has dwincllHd in the weeks fol­lowing the votn. 
In fact, there has been lit­tle of the negative backlash from the College eommunity many studnnt government of'l'icers said they f'earnd during debates over the group. 
see SAGA/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 11, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Business 

majors do work 
Breaking news for Notre Dame stu­
dents: Business majors do work. Seriously. Sometimes they even do a lot of work. 
Maybe even more than you. 
We all know that  
Notre Dame is a  Kate Gales  
campus of stereo­ 
types. I've taken it  
upon myself to  Associate  
defend the oppressed  Sports Editor  
townies, Zahm guys  
and SMC chicks,  

although apparently the Belles still don't like me very much. I really was just mak­ing a joke about husband-hunting, although ifyou're this defensive ... I'm not even going to go there. 
But even people who tolerate Zahm, respect those at all-women's MIAA con­ference schools and look past the zip code of Penn High School graduates can still cling to the belief that a major in business is the same as a major in party­ing. As someone who has shared living quarters with engineers and pre-meds, I have experienced firsthand the discrimi­nation that comes along with a degree (pending graduation) in business admin­istration. 
Some of the most stressed-out people I know are business students. I know mar­keting majors who get up early every weekend to do work. I know accounting majors who don't go out on Fridays because they have too much to do. I know finance majors who don't do any work at all, ever, unless lying on a couch and watching Family Guy is work. But people like that tend to be exceptions to the rule. Mostly, we business majors are busy with projects, exams, papers and homework -I know for a fact I take more exams and do more projects than my pre-professional roommate. 
For the record, I'm not trying to bring down the engineers or the archys or the pre-meds. I'm not trying to discriminate against Arts and Letters kids. Come on, my other major is English-don't act like you're not impressed. 
I'm just throwing an idea out there: · maybe you need to rethink your views on business majors. Let's face it, the vast majority of engineers, architects and doctors are going to end up working for a business major. It's business majors who can keep a company running prop­erly, despite all your skills in the applied and life sciences. Who runs the hospital? A CEO. That's usually someone with a business degree. And an accountant somewhere down the line will be the one signing your paycheck. 
Having fun in college doesn't mean you can't be a serious student. Majoring in business really does teach you inunedi­ately applicable life skills. How else would I know how to design a Web page, read the Wall Street Journal's endless pages of stock quotes or make a detailed budget for a project? Without business majors, this school would crumble. 
So the next time you're on your way to lab and look down your nose at a busi­ness major, think twice. Maybe that kid's all-nighter was spent in the library, not at Heartland. Don't be jealous that you're stuck in lab and he or she could be your boss someday. 
Mendoza? Fine by me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, an article in the April 8 issue ofThe Observer stated workers will begin rebuilding scaffolding around the golden dome May 
14. They will resume work May 16. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE CHANGES TO CLASS REGISTRATION THIS YEAR? 







Emelina Choi Mike Lee Zhan-Wei Khaw Kaity McCoy Clare Halloran Tatiane Hsu 
sophomore junior freshman sophomore sophomore freshman Breen-Phillips Dillon Keenan Breen-Phillips PE Cavanaugh 
"I miss my "Changes? "I don't care "! think it's "I'm lost, I 
"I actually
friend, DART." What 'cause I don't confusing and don't know 
think it will be 
changes?"  know my DART  there will  
time. "  be a lot of  
problems. "  


Teacher forces girl to unclog toilet 
BONITA SPRINGS, Fla. ­After a girl got sick in the bathroom of her kinder­garten class, the teacher made her don rubber gloves and manually remove a clog from the toilet, according to a lawsuit filed by the girl's mother. 
Lori Januska sued Bonita Springs Charter School this week after she said her 5­year-old daughter, Heather, clogged the toilet Sept. 22 and her teacher made her remove the clog as the entire class watched. 
The suit said "a vulnera­ble 5-year-old was subject­ed to cruel, unusual and traumatic disciplinary resulted in severe emotion­al distress, pain·and suffer­ing and mental distress." The girl suffers from an incurable gastrointestinal condition. 
actions which  directly  
TODAY  
r::t:  


The suit, which seeks unspecified damages, claims the school staff was negligent in hiring an unqualified teacher. 
Woman who bit into finger has lawsuit history 
LAS VEGAS -The woman who claims she bit into a human finger while eating chili at a Wendy's restaurant has a history of filing lawsuits -including a claim against another fast­food restaurant. 
Anna Ayala, 39, who hired a San Jose, Calif., 
attorney to represent her in the Wendy's case, has been involved in at least half a dozen legal battles in the San Francisco Bay area, according to court records. 
She brought a suit against an ex-boss in 1998 for sex­ual harassment and sued an auto dealership in 2000, alleging the wheel fell off her car. That suit was dis­missed after Ayala fired her lawyer, who said she had threatened him. 
The case against her for­mer employer was settled in arbitration in June 2002, but it was not known whether she received any money. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
1.&.1 
:::1: 
!;;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
...I <( 
(.) 


0 

...I HIGH 66 HIGH 50 HIGH 59 HIGH 57 LOW 52 LOW 44 LOW 36 LOW 35 
what's

helpful." 
happening. " 

IN BRIEF 
Welsh Family Hall will host a presentation entitled "Balancing Career and Family" in the Family Room at 
7:30 p.m. tonight. Speakers include women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw, dean of the Mendoza College of Business Carolyn Woo and law professor Michelle Shakour. Food will be provided. 
Jack Welch, retired chair­man of the board and chief executive officer of General Electric Co., will lead a ques­tion-and-answer session and sign copies of his new book "Winning" at a presentation Wednesday April 13 at 4:30 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The event is free and open to the public. 
Author and scholar Adela Cortina will speak on the ethics of development and recognize the career achievements of Notre Dame economist Denis Goulet at 5 p.m. Thursday in the Hesburgh Center auditori­um. Cortina will put forward a model of development ethics in a talk titled "Development Ethics: A Road to Peace." 
The Keough Institute for Irish Studies will host the annual meeting of the American Conference for Irish Studies from Wednesday to Sunday. The five-day meeting, entitled "Ireland Beyond Borders," will include lectures by Seamus Deane, Keough Professor of Irish Studies at Notre Dame, and numerous other Irish writ­ers. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 

~  



HIGH 61 HIGH 64 LOW 38 LOW 41 
Atlanta 75 I 56 Boston 45 I 34 Chicago 66 I 49 Denver 48 I 33 Houston 79 I 54 Los Angeles 74 I 54 Minneapolis 68 I 50 New York 55 I 37 Philadelphia 58 I 37 Phoenix 80 I 59 Seattle 50 I 39 St. Louis 72 I 58 Tampa 83 I 65 Washington 50 I 39 
-
Monday, April I I, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

ND alutn overcotnes blindness, strives for greatness 
Graduate says his time at the University prepared him for medical school and future endeavors in the world ofscience 
By STEVE KERINS News Writer 
Tim Cordes graduated from Notrn Damn in 1<J9S at thn top of his dass, an enormous ad1invnmnnt under any cir­r.urnstancns. For Cordns, how1W11r, thn accomplishment was 1wnn morn notnworthy ­he is blind. 
Now, al'tnr narning his M.D. l'rom thn Univnrsity of' Wisconsin and graduating in tlw top sixth or his class, he is working toward his Ph.D. studying how a baetorium that eausns prwumonia and otlwr inf"nctions n1gulates its toxins. 
"In gennral, I vinw my time at Notro Dame as a series of glimpSC!S of how things could or should be," Cordes said. "l'ossihility snorn11d to be lurking around nvnry cor­nPr. " 
Cord11s said his eondition did not limit him during his ynars at Notn1 Damn. 
Drive 
continued from page 1 
Other goals wnrn to gnnnr­atn exdternent l'or nnxt year's food drive and to improve Notrn Dame's rnlationship with the South Bend eommu­nity. 
"Whon you have this kind of thing, you're looking to improve it oach time ... and go 
"(;iant projnets could be undertaken and delivnrnd at a moment's notice, guys like mn eould get dates to SYHs -you name il. This snnse of hope and promise has knpt me going on those long days since," he said. 
Cordes said his Notre Dame nxpMience prepared him for medical school and his future plans. 
"More practically, my bio­chemistry major was a great foundation for both medical sehool and my graduate work," he added. "The theol­ogy and philosophy I reecivnd also have helped me deal with the more human issues of medieine and life." 
Cordes also considered the sourcns of inspiration that helpnd him along the way. 
"One of the most inspiring things about my time at Notre Dame was the tremen­dous people I met," hn said. "I was surrounded by gener­ous, talented individuals." 
He told the story of a stu­
ing to work out all the kinks in it and get some excitement about this event." 
llughns said hn thought the partieipation of Notre Dame students could greatly influ­ence the actions of those in South Bend. 
"This is something we're really going to push hard to continue providing for ND and the South Bend community," II ughes said. "We figure that if we get enough of an ND 
into it knowing "We're going for response, then 
you can improve it we're going to
participation and
eaeh time you do get enough of a it, ro-eoordina­enthusiasm." South Bend
n 
tor Christine response, just Mc<;Iinehy said. "I because or our
John Corker

think this is morn prosence there."
food drive

than anything a Five "squads"
co-coordinator

trial run." were responsi­
Co-coordinator .John Corknr agrood with Me<;Iinchy and said he was not dd1~rred by not reaching tho drivn's initial goal. 
"This y11ar wn'rn going for pa r t i !~ i pa t i o n a n d n n t h u s i ­asrn," Corknr said. "Wn'r11 try­
bln for colleeting food from a designated South Bend or Mishawaka nnighbor­hood that ranged ~om 600 to I ,000 houses. Each squad consisted of students from dorms geographically close to each othor. 



Students Fly Cheaper 
summer travel, study abroad &more 
Sample airfares from South Bend:  Sample airfares from Chicago:  
Wash., D.C  $124  Montreal  $191  
Boston  $168  Mexico City  $241  
Dallas  $168  London  $333  
Los Angeles  $233  Rome  $359  


dent h!~ met during freshman orientation who volunteered to read for him. 
"llo repeatedly refused to be paid for his work," Cordes said. "One day, he fell asleep on me in mid-sentence. He was pushing himself so hard, but yet, still tried to stop and give of his time for others." 
lie continued, "Likewise, there were reetors and facul­ty who really took time to mentor and teaeh. With peo­ple like that around, it was easy to be inspired." 
This inspiration carried over to Cordes' medieal sehool experience. 
"What inspires me about medical school is that when I'm treating a patient, I'm bringing all I know of the sci­ence and all I know as a human being and focusing it in that one instant on helping another," he said. 
After completing medical school in December, Cordes joined the ranks of the small but elite group or blind doc-
On Tuesday and Wednesday, the squads distributed flyers to their respeetive neighbor­hoods letting residents know of the Saturday food eollec­tion, explaining they were looking for non-perishable food items and informing them they could leave items outside of their doors to be collected. 
Badin, Keenan, Lewis, Zahm and the esc donated money for the event's posters, boxes, neighborhood f'lyers, esc van rental and other expenses. Approximately $500 was spent and "there was no fund­said. 


tors  in  the  United States.  internal rnodieirw  as  well  as  
Once  he  has  finished  his  eontinuing to research.  
Ph.D. in  biomolecular chem­ 
istry, he plans  to  pursue  a  Contact Steve Kerins at  
residency in  psychiatry  or  skerins@nd.edu  

Corrigan, Hughes, McGiinchy and Corker are all sophomores who have demon­strated dedication to service prior to their involvement with the food drive. Center for Social Concerns (CSC) staff member Hosie McDowell was the faculty overseer of' the event. 
McGiinchy said Corrigan presented the idea of having a campus-wide food drive at one of the monthly social concerns commissioners' meetings. 
The success of the Keenan Canned Food Drive this 
Corrigan and Corker's !1XpPri­encns with working for tlwir high school's food drives inspirnd the student leaders to start working with the Center for Social Concerns to plan the eampus-wide canned food drivn. 
"It's been a Jut of fun pulling all the diiTnront dorms togeth­nr," llughes said. "The squad leaders and individual dorm representatives have been absolut!1ly wonderful in rais­ing tho ~~all to participate in the dorms across campus." 
Contact Katie Wagner at 


raising involved," McGlinchy Deeernber coupled with nd.edu 
O'(]Jrien-Smitft Lecture ,Series presents 
Jack Welch 

WI 
lNG 
·Wednesday, April 13~ 2005 4:30pm-6:00pm Jordan Auditorium 
Mendoza College of Business 
/look :wit~ and siguing (() .fol/mv in tilt• Atrium First I()() .wudems to arrb•e will receive a free copy ofthe book 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 11, 2005 
Social -work progratn hosts forutn on fatnilies, children 
Saint Mary's students organized annual event as part of Human Behavior and Social Environment II class 
By KIMBERLY ABEEL News Writer  springboard for future efforts that will eventually bring resolu­tion," Kominkiewicz said. "The ·  Students in the class conducted extensive research to select and prepare constructive topics,  Division of Families and Children of St. Joseph County; Patricia Hancock, a Saint Mary's visiting  as well." For junior Jessica Jarvis, the most enjoyable part of the class  
forum is a way we can work with  seeking input from local social  professor; and Lilia Periquet, for­ was "the community atmosphere  
The students of Saint Mary's  the community to solve these  service agencies, including South  mer part-time faculty member  and how everyone took an active  
social work program hosted a  issues."  Bend area high schools and the  and field instructor for the Saint  role in putting things together."  
community  forum  Friday  The HBSE II class plans the  Center for the Homeless.  Mary's social work program.  Jarvis said she hoped  the  
addressing current issues per­ fomm  annually,  To choose speak- Kominkiewicz said students  forum would have a  positive  
taining to families and children. The forum, planned primarily by the 20 students of Social Work  but this year's event is especially unique given its  "It went really well and we had an  ers for the event, students gave pre­sentations and  benefited greatly from their work on the forum. "The students really developed  impact. "I hope that this helped pro­mote networking between agen­ 
and Anthropology professor Frances Kominkiewicz's Human  topic. In past years the department  amazing turnout.,,  ·voted on what per­spectives they  leadership and did an outstand­ing job in putting this event  cies in the community, the College, and residents of the  
Behavior  and  Social  has won  awards  thought would be  together," Kominkiewicz said.  area," Jarvis said.  
Environment II class, addressed  for its extensive  Megan Kennedy  most  beneficial.  Junior Megan Kennedy said  As  for  future  efforts,  the  
healthcare, education and child  efforts in the area  junior  Speakers for the  she enjoyed organizing the event.  department will continue work­ 
protection in the South Bend,  of  gerontology.  forum  included  "It went really well and we had  ing in this area and communi­ 
Michiana and Indiana communi­ This year, howev­ .  John  Broden,  an amazing turnout," Kennedy  cate progress made by the forum  
ties.  er,  the  students  decided  to  Indiana state senator; Carolyn  said. "There was a lot of support  with the use of an e-mail list and  
"We hope to give people the  address issues affecting children  Hahn, Executive Director of the  from both in and outside of the  various community update pro­ 
power of knowledge of the issues  and families.  South  Bend  Center  for  the  social work pro1-,rram and it was  cedures.  
and of how we can come togeth­ A signil_icant amount of work in  Advancement  and  Study  of  great to form connections so  
er to resolve the issues.  My hope  the course is directed toward  International Education (CASIE);  many influential community  Contact Kimberly Abeel at  
is that this event will serve as a  organizing this forum.  Charles Smith, Director of the  members outside of the College  kabeelO 1 @saintmarys.edu  

SMC 
continued from page 1 
take in during this past week regarding the pope's death," Beyer said. "It is incredible to see the flooding of Rome as peo­ple remember and celebrate the life of one man." 
Thousands gathered in St. Peter's Square to keep vigil as the pope's health was .gradually failing. When it was announced that he had died at 9:37 pm on Saturday evening, the entire crowd fell silent -some even falling to their knees in grief. After the silence, the crowd erupted in applause to celebrate the life of Pope John Paul II. 
"When I first walked into St. Peter's Square the day after Pope John Paul II died, I was over­whelmed by the songs and prayers being offered in his memory," sophomore Katie Osmack said. 
It was the undying spirit of the pontiff and the longevity of Pope John Paul Jl's term that drew so 

SAGA 
continued from page 1 
The decision whether or not to grant SAGA official club sta­tus was delayed a week on March 14 after former student body president Sarah Catherine White said board members needed time to research the need and role of such a group at.Saint Mary's. At two different BOG meetings officers discussed whether a straight-gay alliance fit within the Mission of the College and how alumnae would react to a vote approving the group's application. 
Speaking on behalf of vice president of Student Affairs Linda Timm, director of Marketing Communications Nick Farmer praised BOG for its "excellent work processing information" and said its deci­sion was "appropriate." 
"SAGA's recognition as a stu­dent organization in no way infers approval of homosexual behavior or any lifestyle thai is contrary to Church teaching on human sexuality," Farmer said. 
Farmer said the goals of SAGA are "important" and that the dignity of each individual must be recognized and respected, no matter his or her many Catholics from around the world to come to Rome, students said. 
"When he died I felt his life should be celebrated," sopho­more Laura Cucco said. "This one single man has influenced the world in so many ways. I felt I should pay my respects to such a wonderful man." 
This collective desire caused the population of Rome to nearly double during the past week, and as a result, some students waited for hours in line to view the pope's body. 
"I stood in line for 12 hours with two of my close friends and thousands of perfect strangers," sophomore Jessica Jordan said. "Although the wait was long and I was exhausted, hungry and dehydrated, I could not help but feel an overwhelming sense of pride in my Catholic faith. There I was, standing amongst people I could not even hold conversa­tions with, yet I knew we were all there to mourn and celebrate the life of an extraordinary man." 
Pope John Paul II's funeral, 
sexuality. According to Farmer, SAGA could provide students the opportunity to find the sup­port they need through discus­sion and sharing. 
"It is important to note that there is a difference between support for each individual regardless of her sexual orien­tation and advocacy of a lifestyle that involves sex out­side the bonds of consecrated marriage," Farmer said. · 
SAGA will be subject to the same rules as all other clubs on campus, Farmer said. That includes upholding the Mission of Saint Mary's and filing the proper paperwork with Student Activities annually. 
Farmer said the College received one phone call from a parent of a current student expressing concern about BOG's decision. The parent was direct­ed to a 1997 document pub­lished by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, "Always Our Children," which clarifies how Catholics must behave toward homosexuals. 
Heaction among the student body has been equally subdued. There have been no protests or rallies against the approval of SAGA and it has generated little conversation. 
"It doesn't really bother me," freshman Emily Herman said. 
which was Friday morning, was attended by hundreds of digni­taries including President Bush and First Lady Laura Bush. 
Sophomore Megan McCandless stood in St. Peter's Square dur­ing the funeral. She walked to Vatican City without the inten­tion of being able to enter the square, but was pleasantly sur­funeral coverage on monitors in Rome's piazzas and churches, but the majority of Saint Mary's students watched live footage of the funeral in the program's classroom building. 
In the wake of the pope's death, many students studying abroad in Rome will spend much time reflecting on their feelings 
and emotions regarding the event. 
"I do not think that I am aware yet of just how much I have been absorbing or how much influ­ence living in Rome during this time has had on me," Beyer said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu · 







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April II, 200'5 COMPILED FROM Tl..IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page '5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Earthquake hits near Sumatra 
.1/\K/\BT/\, lndonosia-/\n undersea earth­quake that hit Sunday Iwar the Indonesian island of' Sumatra s!~nt people lleeing from thnir homos in panic, but tho temblor was not strong enough to gnnnrato a tsunami, seis­mologists and motnorologists said. 
The (J.i{-magniludn trmnor's epir,enler was rnnlnrnd about 70 milns southwest or Padang, a dty in wostern Sumatra, at a depth of nnarly 19 miles, tho U.S. Geological Survey said. 
"Many pnople in Padang arn panicking," said Yusuf, an official from Indonesia's Gnophysics and ME~leorology /\gency who uses only onn namn. "Peopln have left their housos, ospoeially t.hosn living on the coast." 
Tremors from the earthquake were fnlt in snvnral arnas surrounding the Malaysian dty of Kuala Lumpur, national mnteorologieal chid' Chow Kok Ken told TV 3 news. 
Cardinals stick to silence vow 
V/\TIC/\N CITY -Pilgrims gazed forlornly at tlw third-floor window whnre Pope John Paul II traditionally appeared on Sundays and rardinals lwld to thnir vow of public silnncn ahnad of next wonk's sncrnt votn on a surcnssor. 
Tho cardinals who cnlebratnd Masses around Homo confinnd thnir romarks to tightly scripted homilins aftnr pledging Saturday to makn no more public statements lwtraying tlwir thinking bnl'orn S!~leeting a nnw leader for thn world's 1.1 billion Homan Catholics. 
Mourning pilgrims and curious tourists lined up in a polling rain to visit St. Pnter's Basilka. wlwrn John Paul was laid to rnst. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
DeLay advised to answer questions 
W/\SIIIN<;TON -The No. 3 Hepublican in tlw Snnaln said Sunday that embattled House M;~jority Lnador Tom DeLay needs to answer quoslions about his olhics and "lot the people llwn judge for llwmsE~Ives." 
Son. Hiek Sanlorum's comments seem to rnlleet llw nnrvousnnss among congressional Hopuhlicans about tho fallout from the iiH~rEHtsnd scrutiny into DeLay's way of doing businoss. Onn of DeLay's GOP eoiiAagues in tho llouse callnd him an "absolute embar­rassment" and doubled DeLay would last as majority leadnr. 
Dnl.ay, H-Texas, has been dogged in recent months by reports of possible ethics viola­tions. There have been questions about his owrseas travel, campaign payments to family nwmbnrs and his r,onnections to lobbyists who arn undnr investigation. 
Rudolph plea may reveal assistants 
MlJHPIIY. N.C.-Knnny Jane Wade under­stands the anli-govemment sentiment that may havn lnd some pnopln here to help feed and sheltnr sorial bombnr Erie Hudolph dur­ing his years on the lam. 
Wadn. who owns a cabin near where somn of Hudolph's slash of explosives was found this WE~nk, said lhn mistrust has been part or mountain culture since the days of tho so­called rnvnnunrs -federal agents who arrnslnd pnopln for making moonshine dur­ing Prohibition. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Council to decide on layoffs 
1\NI>fo:HSON -The Madison County Council will moot Tunsday to deddo whelhor to lay oil' sorno eounly mnploynes to close a $1.3 million budgnt shortfall. 
Tax eolleetions in 2004 fell short by $9.5 mil­lion, or approximat11ly onn third of the county's $2X million budget. 
Employee salarins account lor $22.3 million of llw annual budget. 
/\usterily moves such as cutting department budgnts by 5 pnrcnnt and leaving unfilled jobs vacant has eliminated much of the shortfall, but a $1.3 million delkit remains. 
ISRAEL 

Israelis keep protesters out of holy site 
31 Jewish extremists arrested for planned march into the al-Aqsa compound 
Associated Press  
JEHUSALEM  
Thousands of Israeli police  
mobilized at Jerusalem's  
most sensitive holy site  
Sunday but confronted  
only a handful of Jewish  
extremists intent on scut­ 
tling a Gaza pullout by  
tying up security forces. In  
Gaza, militants fired  
dozens of mortar shells  
al'ter Israeli forees killed  
three teenagers.  
Israeli Prime Minister  
/\riel Sharon, speaking on a  
plane taking him to  
Monday's meeting with  
President Bush, said the  
mortar fire "is a flagrant  
violation of the understand­ 
ings" reached at the  
February truee summit  
with Palestinian leader  
Mahmoud 1\bbas.  
"/\nd this will be a central  
issun to be raised in my  
talks with President Bush,"  
Sharon said.  
Police arrested 31  
extremist Jews who  
planned to demonstrate  
Sunday in the Old City of  
Jerusalem. along with a  
West Bank llamas lnader  
who spoke at the holy site.  
But tbe 10.000 demonstra­ 
tors pledged by organizers  
never materialized. Only a  
few dozen showed up.  
Despite the low turnout, Israeli riot police scuffle with Palestinian demonstrators near Lions Gate In Jerusalem's  
Israeli of'fieials acknowl­Old City. Thousands of Israeli pollee mobilized In anticipation of the demonstration.  
edged the protesters  
appeared to have accom­ Clashes at the site could  The Sunday protest, they  Youse!' was dotairwd on  
plished their goal of show­ ignite violence across the  said, was just a lest.  his way baek to tho West  
ing how easy it will be to  region, explaining the pres­ In anticipation of the  Bank, polieo said. lie was  
divert large numbers of  ence of 3,000 riot-ready  protest, hundreds of  relnasod rnr.ently from an  
troops from their main mis­ Israeli polir,e around the  Palestinians spent the night  Israeli prison al'tor a two­ 
sion this summer -the  walled Old City, preparing  in the mosque eompound,  year term and has boon a  
planned Gaza pullout.  to confront a handful of  ready to confront Jewish  relatively rnodnralo voieo in  
1\t the center of the  demonstrators.  demonstrators.  the Islamic group sincn  
drama is the most sensitive  Extremist Jews who  llassan Youse!', a senior  then.  
and hotly disputed holy site  make up a new group  West Bank leader of the  Outside tho Old City walls,  
in the Holy Land ­a hilltop  called "Hevava," a biblical  violent Islamic group  hundrods of young  
known as the Temple  word that means 10,000,  Hamas, entered the  Palestinians scu1'11od with  
Mount to Jews and Noble  stated openly that their goal  mosque compound despite  baton-wielding polieo, who  
Sanctuary to Muslims. It is  is to storm the sensitive site  tough poliee restrictions,  kept them away from the  
where the !\1 Aqsa Mosque  in July, when thousands of  including a ban on male  shrine. Two Palnslinians  
r-ompound, including the  Israeli poliee and soldiers  worshippers younger than  were hurt, with one sufl'nr­ 
shrine marking the spot  are in Gaza to evacuate  40 and those from the West  ing a head injury after  
where Muslims believe  9,000 settlers -foreing  Bank.  being hit by a dub.  
Mohammed ascended to  Israel's leaders to pull the  "/\1 Aqsa is in danger,"  Eventually, tho Palostinians  
heaven, is built over the  forr.es from Gaza, send  Yousef said. "The attempts  knelt in orderly lines on tho  
ruins of the biblkal Jewish  them to Jerusalem and, in  to desecrate AI Aqsa have  road ringing to Old City to  
Temples.  that way, stop the pullout.  not ended."  perform Muslim prayers.  


Blizzard disrupts travel in Colorado 
to 30 mph. Xcel Energy reported that pillows, or waiting in slow-moving
Associated Press 

10,000 eustomers were without power lines at fast-food restaurants in the 
DENVEH-llundreds of travelers in the heavily populated Front Hange terminal. were stranded at the Denver airport region. "I need a drink and thn lines are an and along highways Sunday as a bliz­All airlines canceled departing hour-long to got one," passongnr zard blew across eastern Colorado flights from Denver Intemational Brandi llonnig said. with wet, heavy snow. /\irport during the moming, airport She and her husband, .Jim, worn on 
Seven to 10 inches of snow was fore­spokeswoman Laura Jar.kson said. their way homo to Coeoa, Fla., af'tnr a east in Denver and up to 30 inches Unitod Airlines, the biggest carrier at honeymoon ski trip, but their 11ighl was possible in the foothills west of the airport, canceled all of its !lights was cancolod and all nearby hotels Denver, Colorado Springs and Boulder, lor the whole day, she said. were filled. "We ean't gd a !light until the National Weather Service said. Planes on the ground were icing up Tuesday afternoon," Jim llonnig said. 
"! can see just across the street and faster than they could be deaned, said /\lister Cleland and his family were that's it," Heather Vansickler said at Joe Hodas of Frontier Airlines, which stuck at the airport on their way homo the Country Store in Palm Lake, 45 had planes landing but not taking off to Durham, England, after a week at miles south of Denver. Hundreds of people were stranded the Beaver Creek ski resort. "We liked 
Fat, moisture-laden snowflakes at the airport, many stretching out on the snow there, but there's too much were blown sideways by wind gusting r,ouches and the floor, using coats for here," he said. 
Monday, April 11, 2005 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
ND 
continued from page 1 
the surrounding plazas while 
others simply huddled around 
televisions to see the Mass. For 
all of them, the meaning of the 
funeral was significant. 
"For me, it was moving just 

witnessing the sheer amount of 
people who came," junior Caitlin 
Dahl said. "It really attests to the 
influence the pope had on the 
entire world." 
For tho duration of the two­

and-a-half-hour Mass, thousands 
mourned the death of the pope 
but also celebrated his life as one 
that brought great joy and inspi­
ration to the hearts of his follow­
ers. Leaders from different faiths 
came to pay their respects and in 
doing so testified to how Pope 
John Paul II's charity and humili­
ty transcended differences in 
faith and religion. 
"Seeing cultures from every­

where be there for the funeral 
made it a world event," junior 
Anna Scott said. "It was especial­
ly moving seeing the Eastern 
Churches' involvement in the 
funeral." 
Towards the end of Mass, the crowd in St. Peter's Square ·erupted with a chant to honor 
the late pope. 
"Hearing the crowd continually 

say 'Santo, santo' [saint, saint] 
was very powerful," junior 
Brittany Cross said. "You could 
feel the love and respect all these 
people had for one man." 
For most of the students in 

Rome, the news of the 84-year 
old pontiff's death came at the 
end of their spring break on a 
Saturday when many were trav­
eling throughout Europe. 
"It was very difficult watching all the people mourning in St. Peter's Square on TV when we were away," junior Claire Chiappetta said. "I really wanted to be there and could not wait to get back." 
The following day most returned to Rome and went immediately to St. Peter's Square to pay their respects to the pope. In the Square, people of different nationalities prayed, sang, or lit candles to commemorate the life of Pope John Paul II. Scattered around the piazza were notes written in differ­ent languages remarkable, and somewhat chaotic, atmosphere in Rome. 
Junior Justin Kohley experi­enced firsthand what it was like to be among the million pilgrims when he spent the night before the funeral outside, sleeping in one of many squares that held foreign pilgrims without a place to stay. 
"It was amazing seeing the number of people outside, the pilgrims, who were willing to sleep without a roof over their heads just to get the opportunity to be here," he said. "It was incredible being a part of the whole 
with different "It was incredible event." inscriptions: "I And though Pope 
being a part ofthe 
love you, papa." John Paul II's
whole event.,
"We miss you." funeral represent­'Thank you, Holy ed the culmination Father." Justin Kohley of his life and In the next few received an
junior
days, those living in Rome witnessed an unprecedented influx of pil­grims to Rome as an estimated four million people -Rome's population is three million ­arrived to say one last goodbye to the Church's first Polish pope. Lines to see Pope John Paul II's body stretched for miles, and Notre Dame students waited anywhere from three to 14 hours to get an opportunity to see the body. 
The 45-minute walk to school for Domers became an hour and a half due to the influx of people. News cameras were ubiquitous, with international journalists eager to capture the mood and sentiments of students. Several Notre Dame students were inter­viewed on stations for local, national and international news, and served to provide the rest of the world a glimpse into the 
unprecedented 

degree of global attention, several key moments toward the end of his papacy also touched those in Home. 
Many Notre Dame students, not only from Home but also from Toledo, Spain; London, England; and Dublin, Ireland were present for Easter Mass in St. Peter's Square, the first Mass in the pope's pontificate he was too sick to preside over. 
Many of the students waited for more than three hours ­much of it through rain -to secure a seat in St. Peter's Square before the 10 a.m. Mass began. Students stood in the middle of the 100,000-person crowd at St. Peter's, where peo­ple from diverse countries and cultures stood together to cele­brate Easter Sunday. 
"It was very meaningful seeing how people from all over Europe and the world came together," junior Rebecca Wellman said. "We could really experience the 'Catholic' as poet of Easter." 
Perhaps the most memorable moment of the Mass came when the pope made an unexpected appearance from his bedroom window to bless the faithful. The crowd grew silent as the pontifl" struggled to produce words, shaking as he whispered a bless­ing over the people. Seeing the pope's unrelenting courage and dedication to his flock inspired many in the crowd. 
"Being able to see someone like that, who suffers with dignity and feels such unselfish respon­sibility to the Church, was really incredible," junior Matt Stefanski said. "I felt privileged to be there." 
Before Easter, the Stations of the Cross took place on Good Friday at the Roman Colosseum. During the service, thousands of pilgrims prayed with the ailing Pontiff. who was not at the Colosseum, but in his private chapel, too weak to attend the service in person. The crowds could see Pope John Paul II, visi­bly shaking, via video monitors placed around the Colosseum, but could not see his face. Instead, the cameras showed the back of the pope as he prayed in front of an image of the crucifix. This solemn moment resonated with Notre Dame students. 
"Being able to be there and feel the atmosphere with so many people gathered around the Colosseum was incredible," junior Danny Martucci said. "It was an amazing experience that I will never forget." 
Contact Ricky McRoskey at rmcroske@nd.edu 

Squires 
continued from page 1 

As an organization, the lleifer Project is an unusu­al choice for award recipi­ent. The humanitarian non-profit agency began in Elkhart in 1944 and has since benefited poor fami­lies in 115 countries by giving them livestock, food and agricultural training. Many Saint Mary's stu­dents and faculty have been involved with the program. 
Executive Assistant to the President Susan Dampeer called the Project "an extraordinary charity" and said while the College has never awarded an hon­orary degree to an organi­zation before, Heifer Project International is certainly worthy of the honor. 
"Saint Mary's has a huge commitment to service, and I think that the fact that our students recom­mended [Heifer Project International] really shows how much we value serv­ice," she said. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
Write for News. Call Heather at 1-5323. 


THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Monday, April 11, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,461.34 -84.98
}ones 
U1J: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 916 2.303 • 1,667,237,110 
AMEX 1,467.59 -10.10 NASDAQ 1,999.35 -19.44 NYSE 7,181.50 -46.88 S&P500 I,IHI.20 -9.94 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,796,83 -77.92 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,9H3.60 +6.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -0.81 -0.30 36.64 MICROSOFf CP (MSFT) -0.64 -0.16 24.94 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.51 -0.12 23.29 CISCO SYS INC (C:SCO) -1.38 -0.25 I 7.90 SIEBEL SYSTEMS (SEBL.) +3. I I +0.27 8.96 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.21 -0.10 47.75 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.42 +0.19 44.91 5-YEARNOTE +0.80 +0.33 41.5 3 3-MONTH BILL +0.44 +0.12 27.12 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.79 53.32 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.40 428.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.05 93.80 
Excha e Rates 

YEN I 08.4200 EURO 0.7739 POUND 1.5310 
CANADIAN$ 1.2290 
IN BRIEF 
GM pulls ads from L.A. Times 
LOS ANGELES -General Motors Corp. says it will stop advertising in the Los Angeles Times, at least temporarily, because of dealer concerns over "factual errors and misrepre­sentations" in the newspaper's articles and editorials. 
The newspaper, which is owned by Tribune Co., will review coverage that prompted the complaints from the world's largest automak­er, said Times spokesman David Garcia. 
(iM spoknsman Brian Akre would not identi­fy which stories or editorials the company objeetnd to, but said it had been a series of reports over the past several months. "We made our objections known to the Times and we prefnr to keep those private," he said Friday by telephone from Detroit. 
lin said the decision was made this week bocause of "strongly voieed objections from our dealers in Southern California regarding factual errors and misreprnsentations in the Timns editorial coverage." 
"We recognize and support the news media's f'rendom to rnport and editorialize as they see fit," Akrn said. "Likewise, GM and its retailers are frno to spend our advertising dollars whom wn sen lit." 
Tho ban eovers eorporate advertising, not individual dealer ads in the classified section, hn said. 
Uphill battle in store for dissidents 
NI•:W YOHK -The eight former executivos and shareholders of Morgan Stanley seeking the ouster of' Chief Exeeutivo Phil Purcell collec­tively own 11 million shares of the investment firm. 
But that's just 1.1 percent of the total shares outstanding -and doesn't begin to give them control of Morgan Stanley. 
Fornwr Morgan Stanley president and would­be CEO Hobert Seott was on the road this past week, courting investor support for the so­eallnd Group of Eight's campaign to oust Purcell on grounds the company has fallen behind other Wall Street firms in performance, profits and share price. A series of personnel changes over the week, seen by dissidents as a reward for Pureell Joyalisl'>, Jed the group to go public and take their case to shareholders. 
ENGLAND 

MG Rover on brink of collapse 
Car manufacturer files for bankruptcy as a result of mounting financial problems 
Associated Press 

LONDON -MG Hover  
Group, the last major  
British-ownnd car manufac­ 
turer, suecumbed to its  
mounting debts Friday and  
filnd for a form of' bankrupt­ 
ey protection after a deal  
with a Chinese automaker  
fell through and a govern­ 
ment loan was not granted.  
PricewaterhouseCoopers  
LLP was appointed adminis­ 
trator of MG Hover after the  
Shanghai Automative  
Industrial Co., coneerned  
about the extent of the  
financial problems it had  
recently discovered at the  
British company, pulled out  
of' Hmergency talks in China  
about its planned takeover.  
However, Prime MinistHr  
Tony Blair -wary of the  
political pitfalls of the col­ 
lapse of Hover just four  
weeks ahead of a general  
elHction -said he and  
Treasury chief Gordon  
Brown talked with their  
Chinese counterparts  
Friday and believe a deal  
could still be arranged with  
SAlC.  
"It is possible that there  
may be the opportunity to  
do something with the  
Chinese company, although  
not the original prospect,"  
Blair said after talks with  
PWC and union oflicials at After speaking with Chinese counterparts, Prime Minister Tony Blair believes a  
Hover's Longbridge plant in deal with SAIC could still be arranged.  
central England. "We will  
do everything we can to  England will now have a  phone with Chinese Prime  nred it "imprudent to enter  
keep car production and as  tense wait over the week­ Minister Wen Jiabao on  into a transaction in which  
many jobs as possible at  end while PWC examines  Wednesday night and gov­ the insolvency risks of its  
Longbridge."  Rovers' books, including  ernment officials had  joint venture partner could  
Heturning to London on  reports of a 400 million  offered Rover a 100 million  have transferred signifkant  
Friday after the SAIC talks  pound ($750 million) "black  pound ($188 million) bridge  financial liabilities on to the  
in Shanghai, Hover  hole" in the pension plan, to  loan to keep the company  prop;~>sed U.K. joint ven­ 
Chairman John Towers,  discover whether the iconic  solvent to assist the deal.  ture.  
said: "This has been a set­ company can be salvaged  However, the government  "In spite of' thn possibility  
back.... But we've got other  or whether it will be broken  said that loan was always  of the British government  
options.... I'm not giving  up and sold off to repay  dependent on the deal going  making availabln short­ 
up."  creditors.  ahead.  term bridging financns,  
Hover was pushed to the  The government has been  "Once there was no  SAIC's fundamnntal con­ 
brink Thursday as news of  heavily involved in the pro­ prospect of a deal there was  cerns rnlating to the ongo­ 
SAIC's eold feet was leaked,  posed takeover, attending  of eourse no possibility of a  ing financial state of MG  
and the company shut down  emergency talks between  bridging loan," Trade and  Hover were not resolved,"  
production at its Longbridge  SAIC and Hover officials and  Industry Secretary Patricia  SAIC said.  
factory after spooked sup­ the Chinese government ­ Hewitt said.  PWC joint administrator  
pliers stopped providing  which needs to approval  SAIC said it had put sig­ Ian Powell said the  
parts.  any deal ­that fell apart in  nificant time, effort and  accounting firm would look  
About 6,000 workers at  Shanghai on Thursday.  resources into discussing  at ways to continue opera­ 
Hover's factory in central  Blair also talked by tele­ the partnership, but consid­ tions.  

Buffett found only to be a witness 
Associated Press 

ALBANY, N.Y. -Billionaire investor Warren Buffett is merely a witness who could "shed light" on transactions involving the former chief executive of insurer American International Group Inc., which is now at the center of federal and state probes, New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer said Sunday. 
Buffett, who heads Berkshire Hathaway, will meet Monday in New York with regulators as part of an investigation by Spitzer and the Securities and Exchange Commission into allegations of accounting impro­prieties at AIG involving a unit of Buffett's company. 
The company's former CEO, Maurice "Hank" Greenberg, was forced out in mid-March as those allegations mounted. Greenberg is scheduled to speak with regulators on Tuesday. 
"We believe (Buffet) can shed light on a series of transactions that ... Hank Greenberg participated in," Spitzer said in an interview with ABC's "This Week" television pro­gram. 
Spitzer stressed that Buffet was "not a subject or a target of our investigation," but said, "There are some ambiguities that will bo hope­fully addressed (Monday) in our dis­cussion with Mr. Bufl'ett." 
"He is a witness in our view, and the focus of this investigation is AIG and the much broader reaeh of the offshore entities that AIG has created that we believe were, in many respects, fraudulent," Spitzer said. 
Buffett was subpoenaed in January and has said he would cooperate. 
The New York Times roported friday that documents from a 2000 reinsurance transaetion at the center of the probes had boen doctored S!W­eral months after the deal was struck. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 11, 2005 
Detns criticize Bush's U.N. atnbassador nod 
Senators refuse to support fohn Bolton 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Ahead of a contentious confirmation hear­ing, Democrats on Sunday sharpened their criticism of President Bush's nominee to be 
U.S. ambas­sador to the United Nations, say­ing John Bolton has a poor record as a policy­maker and little regard Boltonfor the world body. 

But the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., said Bolton was the president's "instrument of reform" for the United Nations and his bluntness should not disqualify him from serving. 
Lugar said he would vote to confirm Bolton, but committee Democrats who appeared on the Sunday talk shows said they expected to go against the president. 
The committee, with a 10-8 Republican majority, planned a Monday morning hearing on Bolton, who has served in the past three Republican adminis­trations and has been one of the strongest conservative voices on foreign affairs. 
Senate Democrats have cir­culated a portion of a two­year-old Senate Intelligence Committee report questioning whether Bolton pressured a State Department intelligence analyst who tried to tone down language in a 2002 speech on Cuba. 
In that speech, Bolton said Cuba was trying to develop bio­logical weapons and was trans­ferring its technical expertise to countries hostile to the United States. At the time, some officials said the informa­tion should not have been pub­licly disclosed. Cuba has denied the weapons allegation. 
Bolton, the undersecretary of state for arms control and international security, has stirred controversy because of his gruffness, occasional out­bursts, opposition to a number of treaties and outspoken criti­cism of the United Nations. 
"I appreciate that many peo­ple have views about John Bolton's personality, his blunt­ness, the way that he handles himself," Lugar told CNN's "Late Edition." 
"These are not, in my judg­ment, disqualifiers for a presi­dential nominee who is going to the U.N. to create reform," Lugar said. 
But Sen. Joseph Biden, D­Del., told CNN he would not vote to confirm Bolton. He said at a time when the president is relying more on U.N. coopera­tion with U.S. efforts in the Sudan and the Middle East, "I think it's a bad idea to have a man there who doesn't have much regard for the U.N." 
When Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid of Nevada was asked if he would consider joining a filibuster on the pres­ident's nominee, he told CBS's "Face the Nation" he didn't know. 
"He doesn't appear to be the best guy for the job, but let the committee work on this," Reid said. 
Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., had words of praise for Bolton, saying he had an "exemplary record." 
"I think he's the right man for the U.N. because he brings the kind of candor that you need to an organization that's got a lot of trouble, does not have a lot of support here in the United States, does not have a lot of support in the Congress, particularly the Republican side," Santorum told ABC's "This Week." 
"And I think having a man of that kind of strength is going to be an important thing for the 
U.N. to regain its credibility in the Congress." 
Sen. Christopher Dodd, D­Conn., said he thought there was very credible information that Bolton tried at least twice to have intelligence analysts removed from their jobs because he was going to state a position which contradicted the information that the intelli­gence community believed was correct. 

Won1en describe sexual harassn1ent, lax safety 
National Institute of Health members recount instances ofintimidation and disregard for welfare 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Women at the National Institutes of Health faced sexual intimida­tion and repeated disregard of their concerns for the welfare of patients in AIDS experi­ments, according to testimony by two senior female officers and documents gathered by investigators. 
One longtime medical officer at the government's premier medical research agency alleges that the harassment and disregard for federal safety regulations are so widespread that employees are now afraid to hold up experiments even if they see a safety problem. 
Her sworn testimony and other documents were obtained by The Associated Press from a variety of sources inside and outside NIH. 
"It can be fairly uncomfort­able," NIH medical officer Betsy Smith testified in a recent civil case deposition that has been turned over to federal and Senate investigators. "There are a number of things that you really don't talk about." 
In such a work environment, "You don't hold up any projects even if you feel there are safety issues for certain projects," she said. 
Testimony by Smith and the chief compliance officer for AIDS research, as well as e­mails involving more staffers and several bosses, paint a pic­ture of a sometimes raunchy, profane-language atmosphere inside an agency regarded for its pristine science. 
Documents tell of a supervi­sor sending a red bra to a for­mer female subordinate and of women being hugged or kissed by bosses. In one instance, a supervisor invited a colleague to a West Coast rock concert and suggested they also visit an AIDS clinic there so the trip could be charged to taxpayers. 
Smith and the top regulatory compliance officer in the NIH's AIDS division, Mary Anne Luzar, stepped forward in interviews with investigators and in sworn depositions in recent weeks and expanded upon allegations made last year by an agency whistleblower, Dr. Jonathan Fishbein. Their videotaped testimony was given in Fishbein's lawsuit against the agency. 
Fishbein alleges he is in the process of being fired as the AIDS division's chief of human research protection because he raised concerns about patient safety and shoddy science. The NIH says the reason he was fired was poor performance. 
The Senate and the inspector general at the Health and Human Services Department are investigating the allega­tions. In addition, officials told the Associated Press, the NIH is conducting an internal investi­gation on sexual harassment. 
NIH managers acknowledged in interviews that there are problems in their AIDS research program, which pays hundreds of millions of dollars for experiments across the globe. They said they could not address specific allegations because of the investigations, but were taking steps to end any sexual harassment and improve communication among employees when safety issues arise. 
"We must be sure our staff works productively and in a timely fashion with our investi­gators to resolve any issues related to the conduct of our studies, with the highest priori­ty paid to patient safety," said Dr. H. Clifford Lane. He is deputy director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which oversees the AIDS research division. 
Lane said "sexual harass­ment is not tolerated at NIH and we are committed to insur­ing that all employees are treated with dignity and respect." 
The two new witnesses testi­fied in recent weeks to actions they alleged made the work­place intimidating. Examples included: female workers receiving unwanted hugs, kiss­es or catcalls in the hallways; a safety order on a major experi­ment delayed for nearly two years; and safety conclusions changed or disregarded by supervisors. 
Luzar, the AIDS division's compliance officer, alleged that her bosses frequently sided with the front-line researchers they are financing, rather than with the agency's safety and regulatory experts. 
"I think we (safety officials) got in the way, and that we were an impediment to the sci­ence," Luzar testified. She described the division man­agers as "totally unsupportive" of safety concerns and bending to "tremendous pressure" from drug companies and researchers in the name of try­ing to cure AIDS. 
"I think the culture was cer­tainly strong for a period of time that the ends could justify the means," she testified. 
Smith said Fishbein was a strong advocate for improving safety for research participants and the effort to fire him is "a warning to other individuals." 
She said after Fishbein was forced out, NIH held a meeting at which Fishbein and his alle­gations were attacked and a picture of one of Fishbein's rel­atives was shown on a screen. Smith said the event was so intimidating that fellow safety and medical officers "called it scientific terrorism." 
Documents obtained by the Associated Press show that nearly a year ago, NIH man­agers were warned by the agency's civil rights protection office in a letter that the deputy director of the AIDS division, Dr. Jonathan Kagan, had sent numerous e-mails containing "profanity and sexual innuen­do" and "unprofessional and inappropriate statements." 
The letter included e-mails showing Kagan sent to a male worker a picture of a bare­breasted woman with the cap­tion "priceless" and sent a note jokingly instructing an employ­ee to leave his pager behind and bring "bongs," or drug paraphernalia, to an event. Kagan also used profane lan­guage in a variety of communi­cations, the e-mails show. 
NIH officials acknowledged they took no action after get­ting the letter last May. The investigation remains open, they said. 
Luzar, who had disagree­ments with Kagan over her performance, testified that Kagan once hugged her inap­propriately upon hearing her father had died, and routinely kept a mug on his desk with a phrase that included a four-let­ter expletive. 


Jackson vvitnesses 
•


surprise 
Associated Press SANTA MARIA, Calif. ­They may not be as unpre­dictable as Michael Jackson, but witnesses in the singer's child molestation case have surprised lawyers on both sides with unexpected testi­mony. Flight attendant Cynthia Bell had been expected to testify this past week that Jackson shared wine with his young accuser on an airplane trip -but she said no such thing. Bell testified she served Jackson wine in a Diet Coke can but did not see the boy drink from it. Prosecutors also thought Jesus Salas, the pop star's former house manager, would say he served wine to Jackson and several boys. But on the witness stand, Salas suddenly remembered he had also brought soda for the boys. Jackson, 46, is on trial on charges of molesting a 13­year-old boy at his Neverland ranch in 2003, and one of the counts alleges he plied his accuser with alcohol, but the testimony left prosecutors with no direct evidence to prove that allegation. "The DA's come up empty­handed," said Jim Hammer, an analyst at Fox News and a former San Francisco prose­cutor. "You shouldn't be sur­prised by your own witness­es." The Jackson case has seen an unusual number of people change key aspects of their testimony or say something unexpected, said Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson. It could be a sign that prosecutors are over­whelmed by the number of witnesses or by how quickly the case went to trial, she said. "When you do last-minute preparation, you're more likely to have surprises," Levenson said. 

...,~••n1• Apanmencs 
180I I Cleveland Rd si.:;,wli!:!t'fL~..."""· ~end, In 46637 for the 1st months rent lease plus your choice .... ave oven'"~ DVD player or pofCleaner for carpet*** 
Days a Week 
cppJ~com 574~212~a11tr 
Monday, April II, 2005 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
Access www.nd.edu/---nd2005to purchase  
+ This year, all seniors will sign up and pay for their Senior Week tickets online. The website accepts only credit and debit cards, we apologize for any inconvenience. All tickets are non-refundable. Please find instructions on how to access and use the website below. Ifyou have any questions about events and sign-up, please contact Michelle Mikos at mmikos@nd.edu or Meghan Krasula at mkrasula@pd.edu + BEGIN by accessing the Class of2005 website at http://\vvvv.r.nd.edu/-nd2005. Click on the link for Senior Week. You will be prompted for your NeilD and password. Once entered, you'll be forwarded to the website to purchase your tickets. + Please read the descriptions ofthe each event. Certain events have additional pop-up box descriptions to provide you with more important information about each event. + When you are prepared to purchase your tickets, scroll to the bottom ofthe page and make your selections from each drop-down menu CEDAR POINT: select whether you choose to attend the event or not to attend the event. If you select "Cedar Point Trip-$50 00" you will be charged $50.00 and it will appear myour shopping cart when you check out. SENIOR CLASS FORMAL: select whether you are attending or not attending. If you are attending, select the option where you are most likely to be picked up by the bus. You are not required to take the bus from this location if your plans change, but it will help us gauge where we need to have the bus stop more often Your Senior Class Formal purchase will appear in your shopping cart when you check out. TAIL-GATE select whether you are attending or not attending the tailgate. If you are attending the event and are Th!TERESTED in hosting atailgate, select"Attending and Hosting-Receive an Email about Hosting," which will put you on an email list to receive the forms required to register for hosting. CHICAGO CUBs GAME: Select whether or not you are attending the event. If you select "Chicago Cub's Game-$35 00" you will be charged $35.00; and this event will appear in your shopping cart. SENIOR CLASS GOLF OUTING: Select whether you are attending or not attending the golf outing; golf and cart rentals will be handled by students the day of the tournament. Tee time stgn-ups occur when students pick up tickets at LaFortune on Thursday, April 28 and Friday, April 29. PRE-GROTTO RECEPTION: Please just let us know if you are considering attending for FREE Boracho Burrito! + Once you have selected the events you wish to attend, fill in your NetiD. THE QUANTITY ENTERED MUST READ 1, as you are purchasing a ticket package. Click "BUY NOW' + Use your email and AFS password to when prompted to CREATE AN ACCOUNT. Log in as an existing customer ifyou have already used the website for Bookstore Basketball. Click "CONTINUE" + You'll arrive at your "shopping cart" where you will ensure all the events you wanted to purchase are listed in your Senior Week package. PLEASE BE SURE TilE QUANTITY SHOWN IS 1, you should only have one package. + Ifthere are any mistakes, remove the entire Senior Week package from your cart by clicking "REMOVE" then "UPDATE QUANTffY''. Return to the purchasing page to create a new package. + When happy with Senior Week package, click "CHECK OUT' and fill out the required information. Students n2ed notfill in the COMPANY and FAXNUMBER fields + Click "CONTINUE" to fill out your credit card information. + Make sure you print out receipt after placing your order.·  
Purchase vour Class of 2005 Glassware! ... Fun Notre Dame Glassware with Love Thee Notre Dame and Class of2005logos. To order, please visit the Dooley Room in LaFortune. You must have cash or check on hand to order Senior Class Glassware. Prices: Pints: Single: $5.00 Setof4: $15.00 Martinis: Single: $8.00 Set of 4: $30.00  




Congratulations, Class of 2005!
. 
page 10 Monday, April 11, 2005 
The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 
Atnerican Catholies seek reform 
Followers are after changes in celibacy rules, women in the preisthood 


Alleged shooter says son was tnistreated 
Associated Press miles east of Dallas, authori­
ties said. He was arrested 
CANTON-A man charged and charged with aggravated 
with shooting and critically assault with a deadly 
wounding his son's high weapon, punishable by two to 
school football coach had got­20 years in prison. He 
ten into altercations with stu­remained jailed on $1 million 
dents and coaches before and bond Saturday. 
may have believed his son Bell said Robertson didn't 
was being treated unfairly, have a particular problem 
witnesses said. with the head coach and had 
Assistant football coach actually scheduled a parent 
Howard Bell said Friday that confprpncc with an assistant 
football coaches at Canton coach on thP morning of thP 
High School bccanw wary of s ho o t i ng . SP v e r a I · ot IH• r 
Jeffrey Doylr Hobertson after coaches were just minutes 
he threaten(~d students he from returning to the officp 
believed were picking on his when Kinne was shot. 
son and pushed an assistant "Obviously, he loved his 
coach at a picnic when the son," Bell said. "lie was just 
coach tried to intervene. overprotective. Everybody 
"We already had said we wants their kid to be a play­
were afraid of the guy. We er, a star, but unfortunately, 
saw how he had acted that just isn't the way it is." 
around the kids," Bell said. Police have said they don't 
Once, during a game last believe any one incident trig­
season, Bell said Hobertson gered the shooting. 
stormed onto the field and Hobertson had a long reputa­
confronted a coach. demand­tion of being a hothead and 
ing to know why his son had­starting fights. but he'd been 
n't played in the first half. quiet: in recent months, police 
Bell said Robertson then took chief Mike Echols said. 
his son out of the game. Rhonda Miller, a cousin of 
Robertson, who had been Hobertson's wife. said 
barred from the school for Hobertson is being portrayed 
his earlier clashes with unfairly. She said he is a good 
coaches, allegedly charged family man driven to violence 
into the high school field by an athletic department 
house just after classes start­and school administration 
ed Thursday and shot head that wouldn't act on his con­
coach Gary Joe Kinne. cerns. 
Kinne was in critical but Miller would not give 
stable condition at a hospital speci!'ics·'On his beef with 
Saturday. He was expected to coaches except to say that he 
undergo surgery to repair his believed his son was being 
damaged liver and remove treated unfairly. .the bullet lodged in his back. "He's a man I would want 
After the shooting, with me at any time. He loves 
Robertson, 45, slashed his his family," Miller said. "You 
wrists in a wooded area out­know, you do anything for 
side of this town about 60 your kids." 

to 
*Walk to Campus *Hook up with friends, just 
Associated Press 
The majority of America's Homan Catholics tell pollsters they want a greater voice for the laity in the church, that priests should be allowed to marry and that there should even be women in the clergy. 
As the world's focus turns to the secretive election of the pope April 18, those U.S. Catholics might want to pre­pare themselves for some dis­appointment. 
The winner seems certain to continue John Paul II's progres­sive policies on social issues such as war and peace, human rights and concern for the poor. But on hot-button concerns that so captivate U.S. Catholics, and often the media, expect no changes. That includes the late pope's firm policies against women priests, divorce and remarriage, birth control, gay sex, same-sex marriage, abor­tion, mercy-killing and stem cell research using human embryos. 
Stands like that are "too close to the heart of the tradition for the next pope, or any pope, to change," says Russell Shaw, former spokesman for the U.S. bishops' conference. 
Prominent American Catholics both from the left and right agree with Shaw, though they do see possibilities for flexibility at the margins. 
A moderate pope might speak less about birth control than John Paul did, for instance, or tolerate theologians' discussion about topics like women priests. A pope might stop using such issues as litmus tests in picking bishops. Or he see more of. 
Paul Baumann, editor of the liberal lay magazine Commonweal, acknowledges an ultraconservative is a definite possibility -one he sees as unattractive. 
"The likelihood of there being a progressive pope is slight to nil." Baumann said. "I think it's much more likely that we'd get a very conservative pope, but one without the charisma or public presence of John Paul." 
He hopes for a moderate con­servative who'll emphasize church unity. 
And as far as women priests go there's not a chance, said Kathleen Cummings, who teaches women's history at the University of Notre Dame. 
"The Catholic Church is a patriarchal institution," she said. "It's a structure run by males" that "views women pri­marily if not exclusively as wives and mothers." 
The Rev. James Martin of America magazine says four Vatican sources told him that, under John Paul, the Vatican was about to issue a decree clamping severe restrictions or an outright ban on seminarians who acknowledge they're gay -even if they are celibate. 
Martin thinks that would "be ruinous for the church," but notes that, with the pope's death, the heads of all Vatican agencies step down. However, lower-ranking staffers who pre­pared that policy remain in place. The next pope would decide whether to shelve or affirm the policy. 
Is there anything left for the majority of Catholics surveyed in an Associated Press-Ipsos convert, and Eastern Rite priests -who share liturgies and other traditions with Eastern Orthodoxy but are loyal to the pope -can marry. 
Shaw, however, doesn't see any pope allowing marriage for men who are already ordained, or readmitting priests who quit to marry. 
Whatever type of leader the cardinals choose, it won't just be important for American Catholics .or even Catholics around the globe, says papal biographer George Weigel: "In an important sense, they will be electing a pope for the world as well as for the church. The papacy now matters to virtually everyone." 

Bring this ad 1n 
.
rece1ve 


could subtly allow local dioce­poll released last week, who ses t'O decide whether to allow said they wanted reform in the Communion for some remar­makeup of the priesthood and 
$500 off blocks from your favorite night ried Catholics, even if they lack church governance? annulments. Their one hope may lie in 
spots

your 1st month's rent
However, it's also conceivable celibacy rules for priests, the next pope will be more con­Catholics across the spectrum 
*Expires 4/30/05 *Bronze your~elf at our pool
servative than John Paul -say, though quick or sweeping which in some ways would change is unlikely. 
Restrictions apply *Remodled Apartments 
please Catholics in developing Baumann believes the celiba­countries, where the faith is cy rule could be toppled in five 
*Lease with 42" plasma 
growing. or 10 years. Even a conserva­The Rev. Joseph Fessio, tive like Shaw says it's more 
Toll Free 

provost of Florida's Ave Maria important to have enough University, says John Paul bril­priests to provide sacraments 
1-866-395-4201
liantly proclaimed Catholic tra­than to maintain the old rule, dition but "he really hasn't, in a and he expects some cardinals 
www.aimco.com #1 Hot Spot at NO
lot of cases. backed up that and bishops to press the next teaching with disciplinary pope for reconsideration. 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive 
action or enforcement." That's The church already ordains 
South Bend, IN

something Fessio would like to married Protestant clergy who 
Monday, April II, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page II 
CHINA 

Anti-Japanese protesters take to the streets 
Rowdy demonstrators gather in Beijing to voice concerns over a controversial new textbook 
Associated Press 
BI•:IJINC Anli-.Japan protests over a controversial now .Japanosn textbook erupted in soutlwrn China on Sunday, a day after a violnnt rally in Beijing. Tokyo dnmandnd an apology and hotter protnetion for its citizens as a simmering diplornatie row threatened tins between the Asian heavy­wnights. 
Ilemonstrations against .Japan havn spread sinee Tokyo last week approvnd nnw tnxtbooks that erities say fail to address tlw .Japanese military's brutal wartinw invasion and occupa­tion of Asian nations in the first hall' ol' the 20tft enntury, inelud­ing l'orcing Asian womnn into sexual slavnry l'or troops. 

. On Saturday, about 1,000 dnmonstrators threw rocks and broke windows at the .Japanese Embassy in Bnijing after a noisy rally by more than 6,000 people in the university distriet in the eapital's northwest, where some burned a Japanese flag. 
The protest was the biggest in thn tightly eontrollnd Chinese capital since 1999, when the 
U.S. Embassy was besieged aftnr NATO warplanes bombed Beijing's Embassy in Belgrade during the war over Kosovo. 
Most protests in the Chinese eapital are banned, but the gov­ernnwnt oeeasionally allows brief' rallies by a l'ew dozen peo­pln outside the Japanese Embassy on kny war anniver­saries. Anti-.Japanesn sentiment runs denp among Chinese, with many rnsenting what they see as Tokyo's failure to atone for its wartime aggression. 
China said Sunday it had ordered anti-Japanese protest­ers in Beijing to stay "ealm and sane" and mobilized extra police to maintain publie order, but Japanese officials com­plained that not enough was done. 
When the protesters arrived at the Japanese Embassy, secu­rity forces let them throw stones, embassy spokesman Ide Ke\ji said. 
"They let them do that. They didn't stop, they didn't arrest," he said. 
Japan's ambassador to China, Anami Koreshige, called the violent rally in Beijing "gravely regrettable" and called on Chinese authorities to protect Japanese eitizens and business­es, as well as the embassy and other consulates in China, Keiji sad. 

Japanese Foreign Minister Nobutaka Maehimura also sum­moned China's ambassador on Sunday to lodge a protest and demand an apology and com­pensation for damages. 
Keiji said Japan had used diplomatic channels to "repeat­edly request" protection of Japanese interests last wnek following demonstrations in the southern cities of Shonzhon and Chengdu, and received assur­ances from Bnijing. 
Meanwhile, China said Japan 

should do  more  to  improve  
relations  between  tho  two  
nations.  

ENGLAND 

Charles and Can1illa vved in sin1ple service 
Associated Press 
WINI>SOB -Prince Charlns and Camilla Parker Bowles wed in a modnst town hall cernmony Saturday with tho blessing of' tlw queen and tho Church of l·:ngland. sn1tling a tangled love alTair ignit11rl at a polo match more than 30 years ago. 
One1~ married, tho royals knelt lwrwath the townring Gothic ardH~s of St. (;oorge's Chapol in Windsor Castln. nervously plmlging their undying love and confessing their "sins and wickedness" -a phrase from t.he Church of England's Book of Common Prayer -as their vows were blessed by Archbishop of Canterbury Howan Williams. 

Despite years of public and media eritieism, even ridicule, Charlns and Camilla's shared affection appeared to linally to have won them a measure of acceptance from the British 
public, many of' whom blamed their relationship for poisoning Charles' marriage to Britain's beloved Princess Diana. 
"lie did a bit of a dirty job on Diana," said Tina Quinney, 59, onn of tho thousands of people lining the streets of this royal town. "But the past is the past." 
The cernmonies went off !law­lessly on a bright, sunny day despite sinister omens: A change of' location for the civil wedding vows, unsubstantiated 
Concession Stand Training Information: Tuesday, April 12th Monday, April 18th Tuesday, April 19th 
*All Training Sessions located in LaFortune Montgomery Theater "'All Training Session at NOON and 4pm. 
*Attend if your Club, Organization, Hall applied for a 
2005 Football Concession Stand *At least 2 people per Stand MUST BE TRAINED *Training from Fall 2004 Does not Count for 2005 
To get your Grill On ••• 
Attend Training 
Tomorrow! 
Sponsored By: Student Activities 
???•s 1x7308 

reports of' thn qunon's "l'ury" that the couple would wed at all, and a one-day postponement for Pope John Paulll's l'unoral. 
Camilla is now ol'fieially the Princess of' Wales, though she will be known as the Duchess of Cornwall in del'erence to endur­ing public al'fection for Diana. When Charles is erowned, she will be queen -but the prince's ollice says she will use the title Princess Consort. 
It remains to be seen, howev­er, whether the bride will ever be known as Queen Camilla. 
Throughout the day, the cou­ple suffered from jittnrs and dis­played tenderness, oven playl'ul­ness. Their hands knocked against. one an1Hhnr snvnral times before they found a com­fortable clasp during the church blessing. Outside, Camilla elutehnd hnr hat awkwardly in a blustery wind as slw wavnd to well-wishers with her bouquet of spring 11owors. 
But the al'fection between the couple, who first met and l'nll in love in the early 1970s, was apparent. Charlns, 56, reachnd over to help his new wil'o, 57, find her plaee in hor prayer book as they stood before the archbishop. lie gently touched her arm as a signal when it was time to kneel. 
Camilla appeared emotional at times during the service; ho was fidgety and somber. EviHl tho normally reserved queen ­whose views about hor son's wedding have been tho subjnet of endless media speculation ­beamed as she emerged from the chapel. 
The couple sped away for their honeymoon on the prince's Balmoral estate in Seotland in a ear festooned with red, blue and white balloons and the words "Just Married" scrawled on tho back window. 
The wedding, the second for both Charles and Camilla, was far simpler than his spectaeular 1981 nuptials with 20-year-old Diana. Saturday, the loeal regis­trar, Clair Williams, conducted the 25-minute civil ceremony at Windsor's 17th-century Guild­hall, or town hall, before fewer than 30 guests -mostly rela­tives of the bride and groom. 
GERMANY 


Survivors celebrate liberation 
Associated Press 
WEIMAn-Survivors of the Buchenwald eoncnntra­tion camp joinod Gorman leaders Sunday to mark its liberation by U.S. troops flO years ago and to warn that the suffering of its hLlnd rods of thousands of prisoners must never be forgotten. 
Some 240,000 prisonors passed through tho eamp just outside the eity of Weimar betwoon 1937 and 1945 -.lows, Soviot prison­ers of' war, prominent politi­cal prisoners, .Jnhovah's wit­nessos and others. About 56,000 diod. many worked to doath by tho Nazis. 
About 1,000 pnopln gath­orod in a cold drizzln as Gorman Chancnllor Gnrhard Schrondor and camp sur­vivors observnd a minutl' of silenCI\ and plaepd J'lownrs wlwro prisorwrs Wl\1'1' f'on:Pd to assmnbiP. 
Earlier.  SehroPdPr  
oxprossod  shamn  in  
Gormany's  nanw  and hon­ 

ornd tho victims in a corn­mony at Wnimar's National Thoatnr, a symbol o!' tlw city's dassieal cultural hl'r­itagn. 
"Thny !'ell victim to hungnr, sicknnss, thn sadistic terror and systnmatie murdnr," Sehrondnr said in a spPndt. "I bow bel'orn you, thn vic­tims and t.hnir f'amilins." 
Though Buehnnwald was not nxprnssly built !'or mass killing, as Auschwitz was, it was just as much part of tlw Nazis' ofl'ort. to wipn out. any­onn dnnmnd un-(;orman. Starvation. disease, ovPr­work and mndical nxpnri­mnnts claimed many livns. 
Jnrry llontas said hn arrivnd as a 21-ynar-old Army mndic t.hn day aftnr 
U.S. troops rnaelwd Budwnwald. 
"It was so inen~dibll' ­stacks or bodins, thn snwll. thn total shock and 1:onfu­sion, pnopln walking around by thn thousands." hn said. "Wn had no r.oncnpt for this kind of' insann cnwlty." 
By that tirnn, (;norg Stnrrwr, a llungarian .Jnw, had bnnn at Budwnwald !'or I 0 months. lin rncallnd look­ing out !'rom Barracks No. 37 whnn tho !1rst U.S. tank 1:rashed through thn barbnd­wirn perirnnt.er l'nru~n on April 11, 1945. 
"We always knpt up hopn," said thn 77-year-old rntirnd enginnnr !'rom Budapnst. 
Thn o!'lidal enrnmony was part of a wnnknnd ol' eom­rnmnorations. It bngan with music by Ludwig van Bnnthovnn, a rnprnsnntativn ol' the culturnd (;nrmany o!' which Sehrondnr said the Nazis worn "t.he absolute negation." 
A women's choir sang a song writtnn by two Austrian inmates at Buchenwald that became tho secret camp anthem. 
"Oh Buchenwald, I eannot forget you, because you are my destiny," they sang. "Only those who leave you can grasp how wondorful freedom is." 

Tl-·IE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT

page 12 Monday, April 11, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
The dialogical imperative
Tin: lndqundmt, D.rily Nnvspap" Serving Notrr Dam~ and SRi1Jl MaryS 
[> 0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
<:;:laire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PIIOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley · 
GRAPHicS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAfOR: Mary Allen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including apverrisemenrs, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

·nle Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A tmbscription to The Observer is $100 for one academic year; $55 tOr one !Oemcm:r. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Sdld address cottec:dons to: Notre Dame, IN 46556..0779 ThcObservct Periodic:al postage paid .« Nacre Dame P.O. Box 779 and addidonal mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notte Dame, IN 46556-0779 
TI11:: Observer is a member of the Assotiated Press. All reproduction rights an: reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

When I entered this university as a freshman, I initially enrolled as a joint theology and philosophy major. My rationale (which was needed to assuage my perplexed parents) was 
t~at  as a senior in  Michael  
!~~~!1a~~1 ~~~·u'n'~~d  Poffenberger  
unravel the deep and· profound mys:  Say VVhy Not  
teries of Creation.  

and I was confident that these disci­plines would allow me to l'inish that task in my four years away at col­lege. 
Well, four years later. l sit here "knowing" a lot less than when I first sat in a classroom beneath the Golden Dome. As a freshman, I found Kant's assertion of a categori­cal imperative-that moral law derived from human reason that obligates certain acts-to be com­pelling. As a senior, after thousands of classes, debates, protests and papers, I'm much closer to arguing for a dialogical imperative. That is, all I know is that I have a lot more to learn, and the best way to learn it is through dialogue with others. While this may seem like a weak conclusion to my Notre Dame aca­demic experience, I believe it actu­ally has much to offer our results­oriented society. 
This became further clear to me on Saturday, when an experiment in dialogue took place at the Common Ground Forum. Leaders from stu­dent organizations and publications with perspectives that span the political spectrum came together for an afternoon of discussing the roots and intersections of their values. Participants heard numerous diverse faculty perspectives on per­sonal and political values, and then spent time discussing amongst themselves. Right to Life students engaged gay rights activists, and Irish Hover editors met Common Sense writers. 
What emerged from th~se conver­sations were several consensuses. First. we gain much more through discussing with individuals who see things differently than we do than from discussing with those who already agree. Our biases are point­ed out and the weaknesses in our positions brought to light. Further­more, as a psychology professor brie11y presented, it is cognitive dis­sonance that catalyzes moral devel­opment. That means that it is pre­cisely disagreement and conl'lict that bring growth. 
Second, dialogue is both means and ends. In our society, the impor­tance in political processes is placed on the end result. Do we go to war or not? Should wealthy people pay more taxes or less? The centrality of questions such as these plays on adherence to ideology instead of into a dialogical process. 
These polarizing debates pull us into extremes and push us to invali­date each other rather, rather than calling us to work together. 
As a theology professor expounded at the forum, we are interdependent entities whose well-being is neces­sarily mutual. We bring to the table our own thoughts and experiences, humbly exchanging them with those of others and forming a social fabric that works for all. The battle is thus fought more in the process than in the results, but in so doing positive results are also guaranteed. 
Third, rigid ideology can be destructive. All people have differ­ent paths and experiences in life, and to render one's own experi­ences as the ultimate authority is more of a mechanism for maintain­ing a sense of control than it is a 
genuine discernment of truth. 
Moreover, ideological camps and labels can bn destructive wh£m not thoughtfully reached. When we place oursnlvns within them. we avoid ·thinking through all of their assumptions and implications, a dangerous and subtle form of com­placency striking at even the most active individuals. Monikers of "lib­eral" and "conservative" especially are often ascribed to without any understanding of a philosophical foundation l'or either (if' such even exists in tlw political ar<mal, and all labels are misleading in that they render a complex individual with layers of experiences and thoughts into the sum of a singiP category. And wherever we tend to fall in these categories, each of us can f'ind areas ol' both agreement and dis­agreement. 
While the implications of dialogue­oriented political and social processes could be immense, per­haps the most striking element of the Common Ground Forum was found just in the people present. Abstract categories and labels have prevented me from forming friend­ships with many others who share a strong desire to·improve the world around them and to seek truth with their lives, people who because of' their differences perhaps have the most to offer. Hopefully in the future we may become better at bridging those perceived gaps and at working together to find ways to build healthier communities and selves. 
Michael Poffenberger is a senior anthropology and peace studies major. He can be contacted at mpoffenb@n d. edu 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports Maddie Hanna Justin Schuver 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Katie Perry Chris Khorey Tricia DeGroot Katie Seryak 
"It is better to hide ignorance, but it 

SubmitaLetter
Viewpoint Scene What do you think of 
is hard to do this when 
Joey King Becca Saunders 
insideND? 
we relax over wine."
Graphics lllustrator Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 

to theEditor at
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Heraclitus www.ndsmcobserver.com 
www.ndsm.eo.bserver.com 
philosopher 

THE 0HSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, April 11, 2005 page 13 
The new progressive party 
"Wn all want progress, but if you're on tho wrong road, progrnss mnans doing an about-turn and walking baek to tlw right road; in that easo, the man who turns bar.k soo1wst is tlw most pro­grnssivo." 
C.S. l.owis p1Hll1Pd 
Bill this quoto do1:adns Rlnner ago, though its insight 
A vfJice of

could not bn mon~ 
Reason

rnlovant in today's political geography. Surprisod to lind tlwmsnlves with a majority in Congross and tho White llous11, Hnpubliean IPadorship now fa('(~S tlw rnal pmspoet. ol' its idnas tak­ing JWrnutnnnt hold and transforming tlw country and tho broader world. Tho party of' Beagan still holds its roem1tly dPCIHLSIHI grandl'atlwr in mind likn Obi­Wan to l.ukn Skywalkor, but today's cons1H·vativo progrnssivos now hold tho rPins to dntnrmine our f'uturn. 
Tlw sPII'-prodaimnd progrnssivos of tlw past, or lilwrals by any other name, now rush to thn dnl'nnsn of traditional institutions hornn of' tlw Nnw Dnal of FDB and Crnat Sodnty of' Uti. With grandest irony, wo observe MoveOn.org mobilizing against any plans for reform until thn lnttnr "I)'' l'ollows tho signato­ries' nanws (for thn reeord, the web domain StandStill.org rmnains undainwd). Conservative and liberal lnadors alikn pondor tho question "are Dnmocrats out of' ideas?" 
In a sense, tho charge is unfair bncausn evnry nloction loavns tho minority party racing tho distasteful choice bntweon soft or hard obstruc­tionism, as Hepublieans ol' tho middle­twnntinth century can attest. Still, tho buzzwords nmanating l'rom Democratic party leadnrship f'ocus on "rnpaekag­ing" or playing George Lakoff-inspired languagn games, rather than pondering whetlwr their prnmisns conflict with thn broador public will. 
Until the 2006 midterm elections, lib­nrals who grow eomf'ortabln with Hnpublicans as mere defenders of the status quo now recoil in horror as con­servatives push in another direction. Though conservative grand strategies on the domestic and global seale are barnly adjusting to the light as they emerge from the annals of' think tanks, grassroots support for positive change is swnlling. Bnfore tho November elec­tion, many political analysts assumed that the high poreentage of Americans who claimed the country was on tho wrong track would stick like a thorn to President Bush's side. Instead, Bush won a higher pereentagn of the popular votn than any Democratic presidential candidate since 1964. 
The most likely solution to this conundrum, aside from discredited daims of electioneering, is that Amerieans are slowly reaching the con­elusion that we've missed the turn miles ago, and we'd better lind a short­cut back to the right path or reverse eourse entirnly. Whether the impetus happened to be a terrorist attack on American soil, or a single judge bypass­ing the legislative process to proclaim 
the legality of gay marriage, the prac­
tice of standing athwart history and yelling "stop" failed to be suf'lieient. 
lienee the risn of' conservative pro­gressives: proponents of lax rnform, welfare rnform, soeial security reform, neoconservativn foreign policy, and Paul Wolfowitz. Their premise is rola­tivnly simple: shatter tho unacceptable status quo. President Bush witnessed years of' broken promises from Vasser Aral'at and alienated him from the play­ing table, and Pal!~stinian support l'or a militant PLO eroded. The United Nations devolved into a l'ar;ado of' coop­eration as its f'ailurns grew to outweigh its succnsses-now Bush will appoint the diplomatic equivalent of Dr. Phil to ensure its ovnrdue reform. 
President Bush understands that his legacy of' the future will not be deter­mined by his approval ratings of t.he present. Washington insiders grow skeptical about tho prospects for vari­ous reforms, just as it will when Democrats shut down Congress before accepting another open pro-lifer to the federal judiciary. Yet these beltway politieos thrive on conventional wis­dom, which is written only after some­one defies and thus redefines earlier conventional wisdom. 
As conservative progressives turn in the opposite direction and move for­ward, liberal progressives must drown out the status quo Democrats who appear too close to "Bush-lite" and increase their pull in the political tug of war. Consequently, the 527-groups who dairn broad supportlikn an owrznai­CHJS, soon-to-bn-dnthronnd moJmrc:h now mold the l>nmoerat identity as tra­ditionalists. Years of' l'ailurn undnr cnn­LI'isls followml tho Clinton jac~kpol ynars, and tho 2006 midtnrm nlnetions will providn evidencn of' whntlwr Americans buy the now ropackml stance. Should Hnpuhlkans rnpnat t.lwir suc:enss and t.ill tho Congrnss l'urthnr in their dirnc:tion, a. libnral unraveling may occur that only can bn stoppPd by the rise of Nnw York's junior snnator. 
In thn nwan tinw, consnrvativn pm­gressives will march on, t.nsting t.hn true boundar-ins of national contnnt­ment with thnir ideas, and hopnf'ully initiating the public: withdrawal f'rom countless nntitlnmnnt programs that cannot be sustained. Morn l'ornign nations may topple tlwir opprnssivn regimes with o1· without our dirnc:t aid but knowing that Washington idnologi­eally and pnrhaps militarily supports democratic: rnl'orm. As today's status quo politieal analysts attempt to paint Bush's portrait as one ol' failure, hn will pursue conservative progress as l'ar as politieally viable, lnaving tomorrow's historians to measurn his actual sw:­eess. 
Hill Rinner is a senior economics major. /lis column appears eoery other Friday. 1/e can be contacted at wrin­ner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those (~(The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Appreciating the basics 

One of my fondest memories of Notre Dame is of the campus lit up on a wintry night and thfl reflections off the snow and the buildings around the Dome on a walk back from the Hesburgh Library at 1 a.m. 
It is a memory that I trnasure in these days of darkness here in .Jinja, Uganda, as we wait for a blown transformer to be replaced, and knowing that after two weeks of no power, it could be a while yet bdore light returns. 
So while Sean Hyan humorously eites in his April 7 letter to the edi­tor that tho eollapsn of' power in Northern Indiana, Michigan and a pownr fail urn at Notrn Damn lasting for the rest of the semester as mw of the worst possible things to happen at Notre Dame; for some pnoplo in the developing world, this kind of experience is a common rnality. 
Batlwr than writing end of' tmm papers with typewriters, the 29 lloly Cross eandidatns horn in .linja have to "hand write" their final papers and prepare for their exams by torchlight and paraffin lanterns. 
It is an amazing experience to know that something as basic as elnetricty isn't always available. 
Rev. David Kashangaki 
alumnus 
Jinja, Uganda 
April9 
U-WIRE 

Supreme Court could alter drug cases 
As I write this column the United States Supreme Court is deliberating on the fate of over 32 individuals directly and many millions more by extension. I want to introduce a few facts. 
The ease before the 

Michael court is one stemming Krawitz from a 2002 lawsuit filed by two medical cannabis The Collegiate 
Times

patients, Angel McClary Raich, Diane Monson, and two caregivers, John Doe Number One and John Doe Number Two, who filed a com­plaint and motion for preliminary injunc­tion against Attorney General John Ashcroft and former DEA administrator Asa Hutchinson. 
They asked Judge Martin Jenkins to issue a preliminary injunction during the pendency of this action and a permanent injunction enjoining defendants from arresting or prosecuting plaintiffs, seizing their medical cannabis, forfeiting their property, or seeking civil or administrative sanctions against them for their activities. 
A decision in Ashcroft v. Raieh is expect­ed before the end of June 2005. The following lives hang in the balance of this case: 
The Wo/Men's Alliance for Medical Marijuana (WAMM) has a high stakes interest in the outcome of the Raich ease. On Sept. 5, 2002, 30 armed DEA agents raided WAMM's Davenport marijuana gar­den and the home of its founders, Valerie and Michael Corral. Agents ehainsawed 167 marijuana plants while holding the Cormls and a patient at gunpoint. But the DEA's exit was bloeked by patients who successfully negotiated for the Corrals release. No charges were ever filed. 
Ed Rosenthal says if the Raieh outcome is favorable, charges against him for pos­session and maintaining a place for culti­vation would not be crimes because he was never charged with sales. 
Eddy Lepp, a 57-year-old Vietnam veter­an, says he and his wife, Linda Senti, were growing medical cannabis for about 4,000 patients. If' Haieh-Monson wins a ruling 
that says non-commercial, intrastate med­
ical-marijuana transactions a1·e not sub­ject to federal law, it will dearly benefit 
Lepp. 

The eriminal appeals of Judy and Lynn Osburn and the related civil forfei Lure action against their Ventura County ranch home of 28 years turns on tho disposition of the Haich ease. Judy Osburn is the for­mer director of the Los Angeles Cannabis Hesource Center, which was raided and shut down by the DEA in October 2001. 
In March 2004 Anna and Gary Barrett became the first federal defendants per­mitted to tell a jury that the marijuana they grew was for medical purposes. If a jury finds that the Barretts were in compli­ance with California's medical marijuana laws, U.S. District Judge Nora Manella said she would direct jurors to acquit the couple. Before the Haich preliminary injunction patients who went to trial and their witnesses could not mention medical marijuana under threat of contempt charges. 
When the home and offices of Marian "Mollie" Fry, M.D., and her husband, attor­ney Dale Schafer, were raided in 2001, the DEA took some 6,000 patient files. Fry has not yet been indicted. 
San Diego activist Steve McWilliams was arrested in 2002 on cultivation charges after displaying marijuana outside City Hall. 
"If we lose Haich and our own private acts are interstate commerce and the states don't have tho right to definn med­ical practice then states don't have much value for what they can do for citizens. The feds have taken over," McWilliams said. 
This column originally appeared on April 8 in The Collegiate Times. the daily publi­cation at Virginia Tech University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
I
I 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 14 
Monday, April 11, 2005 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Celtic music mastered 
Natalie MacMaster fiddles with expertise and ease in an entertaining show 
By MARIA SMITH Assistant Scene Editor 

Maybe Celtic music doesn't remind everyone of home. 
Maybe it shouldn't remind me of home either. My family lives in Idaho and my ancestors were mostly English. The other assorted countries that my family origi­nated from certainly don't give me a claim to the music of Scotland and Ireland. 
But I did grow up listening to Colcannon -a traditional Irish band who often played around Boulder -and also a lot of bluegrass, which is a close cousin of Celtic music. I lived in Scotland for six months, which was a long enough time to pick up a little bit of Scottish loyalty and a taste for Scottish folk tunes. My sister played her share of fiddle tunes growing up, and as a harpist, I performed more than a few renditions of "Danny Boy" and other Irish favorites. 
So maybe it makes sense that, for me, really good Celtic music feels homey. Maybe for other people, Celtic music is just another miscellaneous genre with which they feel only a small connection. 
But for Natalie MacMaster the magic of Celtic music -and specifically Cape Breton music -obviously lies in its con­nection to her background, her family and the place where she was raised. MacMaster probably owes a good deal of her success to that connection -audi­ences can feel the heritage of a long line first of musicians, first from Scotland and then from Nova Scotia, throughout her music. MacMaster's home in Cape Breton is obviously an amazing place and it is a place of which she is proud. The ease with which the fiddler talks about her home and her music easily puts an audi­ence at ease as well. 
This is not to say that MacMaster and her backing band are not amazingly tal­ented in their own right. MacMaster is a dynamic performer with unbelievable energy. Her fiddling is impeccable and she may nqt step dance on the level of a professional dancer, but she's certainly no slouch. Her band plays together beauti­fully; some musicians just don't have chemistry, but these five guys come together exactly like a good Celtic band should. 
However, there's something about the window into the culture of Cape Breton Island that this music provides that makes these musicians especially power­ful. There are probably relatively few people in the world who think to connect the name Nova Scotia with the words New Scotland and probably fewer who realize how direct the link between the first Scottish settlers and the music of Cape Breton today is -this is certainly not something that had ever occurred to me. But if Cape Breton music truly is a purer Celtic form than the music of Scotland today, then the island is evi­dence that there are always people who know, love and live by their traditions. 
MacMaster is refreshing partly because she is so obviously proud of her home and its music. 
"There are more fiddlers per capita in Cape Breton than in any other part of the world," MacMaster said. "Look how we've blossomed." 
It's true that the music has evolved a bit. Modernizing Celtic music is not an uncommon pastime and is not always a pleasant one, but Natalie MacMaster and her musicians introduced some different musical elements to the equation quite successfully. The second half of the show was certainly less traditional than the first, and featured more electric guitars, jazz notes and other sounds foreign to Celtic music. Guitarist Brad Davidge obvi­ously has a penchant for blues, rock and other less than Celtic genres, as he demonstrated in a rendition of "Danny Boy" that fell somewhere between Ireland and North American pop radio. Bassist John Chiasson took the vocal on a num­ber that might have been heard from a combo in a jazz and blues bar. 

But there can be no mistake about the identity of this band -these are Cape Breton musicians playing Cape Breton music. Whether their music reminds us of our own homes or just gives us a window into the amazing place that these people call home, we can all hope that Natalie MacMaster and all of Cape Breton's fid­dlers continue to make music for a long time to come. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer MacMaster's band included a host of extremely talented contemporary Celtic musicians that each bring a unique flavor to the show. 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Monday, April 11, 2005 
page 15 
OPERA REVIEW 

Notre Dame Opera shows versatility 
By MARY KINGSBURY 
Scene Writer 

This past wnnknnd the Notre Dame Opera and the Notre Damn Music Department teamed up to offer a dynamically contrasting eombination of drama. I·:neompassing both aspects of the Greek theatre masks, the Notre Damn Opera moved its audience from tnars to rnisehievous laughter. Everything about tlw perf'orrnancn, from its charming scone dnsign to its supnrb voeal depth, was at a level noth­ing short of' profnssional. 
Tho opening Puedni opera "Suor Angelica," is the only all-f'nmaln opnra composed to date. It includes a chorus and is the first opera Notre Damn has ever J>Prf'ornwd in Italian. The English translation was providnd in supnrtitles. Hcbneea Paul brilliantly mastnrnd tho role of' Sister Angelica, a 17th-century nun who has IHwn forced into a eonvont by her rela­tivns f'or having a baby out of wndlock. As the plot dnvolops, Sistnr Angnliea blossoms into a saintly, soilless woman-a favorite among lwr f'ellow nuns. With characters varying from tho decrepit old ablwss (Katy Niehols) to a chubby S<H~ial butterfly (Mary Willoughby), tho atmosphere of' the convent provided comic relief to an intense plot. 

The cheerful environment of the convent is shat­tered midway through the act, when Sister Angelica's scheming aunt appears with news of the death of Angelica's son. Holding a striking resem­blanee to Ezma from Disney's "The Emperor's New Groove," Mary Waltner's villainous performance led to the climax of the opera. Distraught by the news ol' her son's death, Angelica poisons herself. Immediately regretting her sinful action, Sister Angelica pleads to the Virgin Mary to intercede for her forgiveness. Hebecca Paul's moving interpreta­tion of a mother's virtuous longing for her child jux­taposed with the gravity of mortal sin yielded much aeelaim from the audience. 
The opera concludes with tho Virgin (Jamie Pilloni) and son (Giovanni Stroik) appearing as a sign of God's forgiveness. Sister Angelica dies peacefully, envisioning herself in heaven holding her beloved ehild. As the orchestra faded, everyone in the house held their breath in a moment of awe, fol­lowed by thunderous applause and standing ova­tion. 
A 20-minuto intermission followed, allowing the performers and the audience to change gears from the tender "Suor Angelica" to the raey "Mamelle de Tirosias." 
To start the second half with a splash, Hcbecea Paul reclaimed the stagn, this time wearing horns and dragging a mortified Nicholas Tonazzi fully clad in loineloth and a cape. A spoof on a Wagner opera, tlw disappointed diva leaves the stage when the conductor shows her that the composer of this score is Poulene. llis "Mamnllos de Tirosias" (Tho Breasts of Tiresias) is subtitled an "opera buffa in a pro­logue and two acts" (libretto by Apollinairc). The score is sensuous, mysterious, insinuating and at times has a very cabaret-like feel. This opera was performed in English, which worked well to convey its humor. 
A bit risque, but utterly hilarious, the east of "Mamelles de Tiresias" completely captivated their audience with anticipation of what could possibly come next. The prologue set the stage with Michael Shaw, in the role of the Director, wearing nothing but lingerie from the waist down and dancing with a whip. Lauren Price (Therese) and Paul Appleby (le Mari) opened the act in a lover's spat. The character 

CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 

"Mamelle de Tlreslas" provided a great deal of com­edy along with vibrant color. 
Therese (Prien), in protnst to her husband's eonti nu­ous plea for sox, proeeods to unzip her blousn and pop her oversized breasts (two large latex balloons) and grow a board. A complete gender reversal occurs when In Mari (Appleby) embraces motlwr­hood by birthing 40,000 children in hopes to repop­ulate the town of Zanzibar. 
The fanciful plot encompassed everything from Gabriel Torres and Nicholas Tonozzi parading around the stage on roller-skates to Erie Potrucd dancing around in a diaper as one le Mari's IWW­borns. At one point vocal musk professors Georgine Hesick, Joan Troyer and John Hiley-Schofiold chimed in from tho audience, and the east united to proclaim the lesson of war: make love and multiply. To finish off the evening, a cascade of latex balloons drop from the ceiling, symbolic of tho return of Therese's breasts, "Los Mamelles de Tiresias." 
Contact Mary Kingsbury at mlcingsbu@nd.edu 
Shakespeare with a twist 
By MARIA SMITH Senior Scalf Writer 

What do you gnt wlwn you takn "Twnll'th Night" out of tlw 16th century and into the 19H0s'! 
An lllyria built 011 roek and roll. 
In tlw Not So Boyal Shakespeare Company's per­formancn of Shaknspearn's comedy, Viola, Orsino and Olivia got down to U2, lluny Lnwis and tho News and othnr ieons of 'HOs rock. 
Senior Elizahnth Grams, who played Feste the fool. had a chanee to give some musieal renditions of' Shakospearoan lines that hailed nvnn farther baek to tlw 11J70s. 
It is not uncommon to use gimmicks like this to give tho plays by tho most beloved playwright of the English language a little bit of a distinctive flair. The 'HOs twist was aptly chosen f'or the audim1ce ­Notre l>amo party pnopln are almost always glad to !war somn good 'HOs tunes. 
i\nd in NSB's pnrforrnaneo, it was indend the party pnoplo who lwnditnd tho most from the 'ROs spin. In this particular pnrformancn of "Twelfth Night," Shakospnaro's downs reigned victorious. Sir Toby Bolch, played by Brandon McGirr; Air Andrew Agu odwo k, pI ayed by Ern man ue I Zero u d ak is; Fabian, playod by Marty Schroeder and Maria, playnd hy Mnghann Tabor, stole the show from their straight-man counterparts. 
.Ion c;arlock gave one of the best performances with his tonguo-in-eheek portrayal of' the dour Malvolio. Tho shtick between these five aetors was undoubtodly the highlight of the show. The drunken, guitar-loving downs brought to mind the unmotivat­ed boer-loving high school graduates of "Dazed and 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_. 
Confused" or "Say Anything." Belch and his friends wore appropriately annoyed when "the man" Malvolio tried to get them down. 
Unfortunately the musical focus also obscured some themes-several lines were lost to loud music and as amusing as the dance numbers could be, they didn't always gel with the more serious scenes. Some of Feste's lines, although well set to their music, were dil'ficult to understand. 
Virginia Woolf once called Shakespeare one of the few "androgynous" writers, that is; one whose writ­ing is neither distinctively male nor distinctively female. Shakespeare not only had a talent for dynamically portraying both male and female char­aders, but a fondness for working with both simul­taneously. Some of Shakespeare's most memorable characters appm1r in his "transvestite comedies," dressed in the guise of the opposite gender and often wooing characters of their own sex more or less accidentally. 
NSH has shown a fondnc~ss for these transvestite comedies this year. "As You Like It," the play chosen for first semester, centers around Hosalind, a beau­tiful heroine who charms all sorts of people in the guise of a young man named Ganymede. 
The famous love triangle between Viola, Orsino and Olivia in "Twelfth Night" is another ease of mis­taken identity. Viola dresses as a young man and calls herself Cesario in order to find employment in Orsino's house, but finds herself falling in love with him. Orsino sends her as a messenger to woo Olivia, who develops a passion for tho youth she believes to be Cesario. Therefore, for the majority of the play each is unhappily in unrequited love. 
The gender-blurring theme was perhaps more effectively developod in the fall performance, with Grams in the role of' Hosalind -so many charaders fall for the so-called (;anymede that tlw issun of gender identity is hard t.o ignore. But tho awkward chemistry betwenn Viola, playc~d by Liz Clouse, and Olivia, played by Molly Kealy, was certainly palpa­ble. The union between Viola and Orsino at thn nnd, when Viola's true identity is rnvealod, emphasize the importance of' a good eharaetnr which n~aelws above and beyond thn turbulent relations lwtwcwn genders. Both of' these plays, and all of thnsn ehai·­aeters, eertainly highlight a question about tho degree to whieh gnndnr roles arn mernly a construc­tion. • 
Some of the line points of thn ShaknsJ>Pare's lan­guage are almost inevitably lost in college produc­tions, and "Twelf'th Night" was no exception. Tlw plot was a little bit difl'icult to follow at the lwgin­ning and thn dntails of how Viola ended up drnssnd as a man in Orsino's household wnre certainly not elear. But the difficulty of' reading Shaknspnarnan English, let alone performing it, ereatns a charitable audience and as thn play progrnssnd tlw plot became easy to follow. Cirams and Ciarlock stnppnd up to the Shakespearean ehallnngn most. sueenssful­ly, but other actors worn not far behind. 
The actors' big-shoulder power suits and joan jackets were as effective as most costumes snen on the college stage -the n~minder that Shakespeare's plays transcend time and place is always wnleonw. 
In the spectrum of' tho Shaknspoaran world. "Twelf'th Night" is neitlwr Shakespeare's best play nor NSH's best performancn, but both have morn than a few virtues. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 11, 2005 
MLB 
Delucci clinger lifts Rangers over Mariners 7-6 
into position to catch. But a fan
Gotay leads Royals 
reached up and caught the over Angels, Pirates ball. 
The spectator offered the ballouthustle San Diego to Suzuki, who stared at the fan before walking away. 
Associated Press 
Mariners manager Mike 
David Dellucci has been Hargrove didn't complain working hard on hitting left­about the fan's nice catch. handed pitching. It paid off "It happens at every ball­Sunday. park," Hargrove said. "The 
Dellucci hit a two-run homer umpire had a good view on the in the seventh inning off lefty ball. Had Suzuki been denied a Matt Thornton to help the chance to catch the ball, he Texas Rangers rally for a 7-6 would have called the hitter victory over the Seattle out." Mariners after wasting a five­Barajas took advantage of his run lead. second chance to hit an RBI" 
"To have success against a double and give Texas a 2-0 left-handed pitcher, it takes lead. The Rangers added repetition," said Dellucci, who another run when Willie hit only .1 07 (3-for-28) against Bloomquist misplayed Alfonso lefties in 2004. "I knew I'd be a Soriano's grounder for an little more comfortable the sec­error. ond time around." Michael Young made it 5-0 
Thornton (0-2) walked with a two-run single, chasing Dellucci in the fifth inning. Meche. 
Mark Teixeira led off the sev­enth with a double off Kansas City 8, L.A. Angels 3 Thornton. One out later, Ruben Gotay wanted to come Dellucci reached the second back strong after an embar­deck in right field with his first rassing error the night before. homer of the season. Brian Anderson was deter­
"It feels good to get the win, mined to get off to a good start but I think what's on every­after the worst season of his body's mind is that we haven't career. My biggest concern was hav­the boxscore. Padres weren't holding even started playing our best Both got what they were ing one outing this spring of 54 "It was flat-out hustle," man­Mackowiak on first. baseball," Dellucci said. "We looking for. pitches and one of 72. And that ager Lloyd McClendon said "You can get a bigger jump," came from behind a lot last Gotay went 4-for-5 with a was 11 days ago. So I knew I after the Pirates beat the San he said. "I just ran hard, I year, so we feel very comfort­homer and three RBis while was going to be hyped-up early Diego Padres 6-3 Sunday to guess, like you're supposed to, able when we're down a few Anderson won his season because it was my first time split a four-game series. and was fortunate enough to runs. Being behind doesn't debut, leading the Kansas City out there." The turning point was short­get there." phase us." Royals to an 8-3 victory over Mike Sweeney was 3-for-4 stop Khalil Greene's two-out It was enough to get the 
The Rangers seerri to have Bartolo Colon and the Los with a pair of RBI singles and throwing error in the fourth Pirates headed toward just figured out how to win at Angeles Angels on Sunday. Emil Brown also homered for inning that led to four their second win in six games. Safeco Field. After going 0.-11-"Having a game like this Kansas City, which finished unearned runs, and "That's what we needed, I 2 in their first 13 series at after what happened last night, with 17 hits. The Royals, swept Mackowiak's smart baserun­guess," Mackowiak said. "We Seattle's ballpark since it it gets your confidence back," 7-0 by the Angels last season ning was a huge factor. needed someone to step up. opened in 1999, Texas has won Gotay said. "I just wanted a while losing a franchise-record With runners on first and I'm not saying that's what I two straight. chance to help the team by get­104 games, took two of three second, Greene fielded Ty was trying to do, but I mean, 
Texas now heads home to ting on base and getting RBis. from the defending AL West Wigginton's grounder and you play the game the right Arlington for their season Colon's a good pitcher, but the champions. intended to go to second, but way, good things happen." opener. thing is that we came out "I didn't realize until yester­by the time he started to throw, David Ross followed with a 
"It will be nice to finally have aggressive -not just me, but day that they had drummed us Mackowiak was almost at the two-run single to left off Tim some fans in our corner," everybody -and we didn't like that last year," Anderson base. Redding (0-1), who was making Hangers manager Buck lose that aggressiveness." said. "We just came in here Greene double-pumped and his Padres debut, and pitcher Showalter said. "We're looking Staked to a 6-0 lead, looking to play good baseball threw wide of first, allowing Dave Williams hit an RBI single forward to the emotion of Anderson (1-0) allowed three against a quality team. Jason Bay to score from second to center. opening day with our fans." runs and five hits in six-plus "They've got a tremendous to break a scoreless tie. 
The Rangers scored five runs innings. He gave up a homer to ballclub. Just look at the lineup Greene said the ball "took a Catcher Miguel Ojeda had 
· in the fourth with some help AL MVP Vladimir Guerrero, they throw out there and the funny little hop. I tried to consecutive plays at the plate, from a Seattle fan. After struck out five and walked pitchers they've got. So we smother it. He got to second but couldn't hang on to Dellucci walked with one out, none. knew we had to play extremely faster than I thought." Klesko's throw from left as Mariners starter Gil Meche "When I started warming up, well to stay competitive with "Throwing to first, I didn't Wigginton scored on Ross' hit, gave up three straight hits, I felt locked in right from the them." have the best grip or get my and he didn't block the plate including Adrian Gonzalez's beginning," Anderson said. "I feet set. I had to rush the when Ross scored on Williams' RBI single. was trying to tell myself to Pittsburgh 6, San Diego 3 throw a little bit," Greene said. single. Next up, Rod Barajas hit a remember what I was doing in Rob Mackowiak helped "I hadn't anticipated even hav­"I told my club leaving spring foul ball down the right-field the bullpen and take it into the Pittsburgh win with the kind of ing to go to first." training, baserunning will win line that Ichiro Suzuki moved game. play that doesn't show up in With a runner on second, the games for us," McClendon said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
ROADTRIP! Need manual 97 VW Cabrio driven from Chicago to Seattle. Will pay gas & courtesy fee. Must arrive by May 25th. Call Carolyn 90 (847) 612-1710 or hoorey90@msn.com 
FoR SALE 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 
4 rm,2 bath. For details fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. 
For Sale: Luggage Carrier Sears largest; only used twice. 
$150. Call 272-5763 to see. 
FOR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT 
NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. 
ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES 
GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITEWWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 
574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032. 
1-yr sublet 1 bdrm. 10 min.to ND. $500/mo. Email: ngreenbe@nd.edu 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­able NOW. Both 
Close to ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 
Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent pro­gram. Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAM­PUS. 708 S.B. AVE -605 ST. PET!;R CALL 532-1408 MMM­RENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAC­ULTYONLY. CALL BRUCE 876­3537. 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 
3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417 Napoleon (off ND Ave.)2 min. from ND. $1100/mo. 2 roommates/1 lam­ily. Call 299-9428. 
www.andersonNDrentals.com 
5-7 BDRMS.$195/PERSON.SUM­MER OR 05/06. WASHER/DRYER .. 329-0308 
1-yr sublet 1 bdrm. 10 min. to ND. $500/mo. Email: ngreenbe@nd.edu 
Nice homes close to ND.Great area.AII amenities. 19237 Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. 
Cripe 4bdrm;222 E.Willow 3bdrm.2773097 
Nice homes close to ND.Great area.AII amenities. 19237 Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. 
Cripe 4bdrm;222 E.Willow 3bdrm.2773097 
STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER MONTH All utilities, ADT security, phone/cable/DSL, WID, Lawn service. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.05/06. Call315-3215 

Extra large 3 bdrm 1st floor apt. 10 mins. from ND. Great quiet area. 3 students@$450/mo. All utilities included. 574.707.2960 
Sub lease our house this summer! Clean, newer 5-bedroom house for rent this 
summer. VERY close to campus on Juniper and partially furnished. Contact Nell 
at nryan7@nd.edu. 

Large 5bdrm,3bth house for sum­mer sublet. Juniper Rd. Very close toND.Will 
rent rooms individually. 2-car garage, washer/dryer,deck. Email: Ghealey@nd.edu 
123 N. ND Ave. 3bd, 1.5 ba,off prkg.,W/D. $1300/mo. Call229­0149. 
4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots of room. Call Judy 574-298-6217. 
Furnished 1-bdrm apt. Free laun­dry. No smokers, no pets. On bus route,2 mi to ND. 
350+utilities. 289-9365. 
2005-06 $250-300/mo. Fum.rooms. Country setting, 10 mi to ND. Non-smokers. 
Private entrance,laundry,kitch­enette,cable & util incl. 289-9365. 
Monday, April II, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
S"Weetney's 20 points help Knicks knock off Pacers in OT 
Kings stop hapless Lakers in battle ofCalifornia teams; Pistons cool the Heat 
Assodated l'ress 
lNDl/\N/\I'OI.IS The rPhound eanw right into Mirhanl Sweetney's hands, and lwforn thn Indiana Pacers could react, tlw ball was back up and in tlw basket. 
"That's tlw first time in my life that l 1wnr made a shot like l hat." said SwePtrwv. wh~, sron~d tlw gamn-winni'ng shot in tho final sneond of Nnw York's II :~-112 overtinw virtory on Sunday. "It's the first time I nvor won a game at the 
bUZZI'r." 
Tlw winning basket followed a miss by St1~phon Marbury, and Sweetnny l'inislwd with a carnl'r-high 20 points as tiH~ !-.:nicks endnd a nine-game los­ing streak, tlwir longest in 20 years. 
"Stnphon went to the hole and tlwy trim! to block it, bu.t it fnll right into my hands and I just tippnd it in," Swnntney said. 
The Knicks hl1~w a 12-point lnad in the fourth quarter bnf'ore a 3-pointer by Kurt Thomas, his sncond of tlw sea­son, sent the game to overtime t.ind at I 04. 
Tlw l'aenrs, who had their season-lwst six-gamn winning strnak nnd, wnre ahead 112­106 with a rninut1~ lert aftnr a driving layup by Heggie Millnr, who led Indiana with 34 points. 
But Sweetney, whose prnvious high was I'J points three times this season. made a basket and a l'ren throw to pull the Knicks within three points..lMome Williams then stole tlw ball from Stephen .Jackson, and Marbury hit a layup to eut the lmul to onn with 31 sneonds to go. 
Kings 124, Lakers 105 
This rivalry isn't what it was, mostly bne;~use the deph~ted l.aknrs and the rnvamped Kings don't really know who thny are. 
With tho playoff's in sight, however, Sacramento is gntting a good idna. 
Kenny Thomas had a earner­high 32 points and 14 r·nbounds, and the Kings beat the l.akers for thnir fourth higlj-scoring victory in f'ive gamns. 
Mike Bibby had 24 points and eight assists for tho Kings, who blew out their biggest rivals with 68 points in the second half. Sacramento outrebounded the !.akers (>2-32 and made 51 pnreont of its shots while scor­ing at least 118 points for the fifth time in seven games. 
Coach Hick /\dolman opened up Sacramento's offense after Chris Webbnr's departure, and the Kings have bngun reaching triplo digits regularly -evnn bnl'oro Adelman has settlnd on a consistent playing rotation. 
Thomas, freed from the Philadelphia bench in the Webber trade. has benel'itod tho most from thn move and the Kings' widn-open style. IIn was dominant against tlw Lakers, scoring inside and outside against thPir subpar collnetion of defensive forwards. 
Pistons 80, Heat 72 
Shaquillc O'NPal was on the bench in a suit, still mcovnring !'rom a nasty stomach virus. Dwyano Wade played his worst game of thn season. 
And thn Detroit Pistons happi­ly took advantage of tho Miami Ileal's lack of star power. 
Hichard Hamilton scored 17 points, Tayshaun Price added 16 and the Pistons stymied Miami for three quartnrs, then saw a 20-point lnad trimmed to four down the stretch before holding on to win and end the Ileal's franchise-record 18­game home winning streak. 
With O'Neal out for a third straight game and Wadn unable to get anything started, tho Heat sot season-lows for scor­ing in a game, half' and quarter, established another low by shooting 34.6 percent and have lost two straight for just the fourth time all season. 
"Anytime you win at 1 o'clock on a Sunday in Miami, it's a tough game to win," said Pistons coach Larry Brown, whose team has won six straight. "Thoy never gave up. I hope we are fortunate to play them in another series. It would be a great matchup." 

The win moved Detroit within one game of clinching the Central Division title. Barring a total collapse, tho Pistons will bo seedml No. 2 behind Miami in the Eastom Conf'nreneo play­niTs. 
Eddie Jones had 19 points for Miami, which hurt itself' by shooting 14-for-2(, from tho foul linn. Wade had only l'ive points on 1-f'or-(> shooting before fouling out with 4:13 lel't, ending his streak of' 51 eonseeutivn games in double ligures. 
Law& • • • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
April 13, 2005 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Classical Architecture and Traditional Urbanism: Sustainability Trumps Style 
Presenter Michael Lykoudis 
School ofArchitecture 
Commentator Nicole Stelle Garnett 
The Law School · 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 11, 2005 CoMPJLED FROM THE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 18 
ESPN/USA Softball GOLF Collegiate Top 25 
team record 
1 Michigan (15) 35·2 2 Arizona (5) 28·3 3 California 31·4 4 Texas 28·5 5 Tennessee 41·5 6 TexasA&M 34·2 7 Oklahoma 36·6 8 Baylor 33·5 9 Stanford 25·7 10 Georgia 33.8 11 Alabama 40·9 12 Oregon State 24·6 13 UCLA 19·9 14 Louisiana Lafayelle 24"7 15 Florida 29·10 16 Fresno State 24·8 17 Missouri 27~6 18 Northwestern 22·9 19 Iowa 28-8 20 Arizona State 26-9 21 Georgia Tech 34-9 22 Washington 17-11 23 Creighton 27-4 24 Southern Illinois 28-8 25 Nebraska 21-13 
Baseball America 
Collegiate Top 25 
team record 
1 Texas 26-5 2 Cal State Fullerton 20-7 3 Tulane 25-5 4 Georgia Tech 23-6 5 Florida 23-7 6 Arizona 21-10 7 North Carolina 24·5 8 Louisiana Slate 21-8 9 Mississippi 21·7 10 Stanford· 17·9 
11 Rice 21-10 from the hole, taking two ger surprise. The greatest slowly to Woods to con­
Associated Press 
12 South Carolina 24·5 steps to the left as a smile closer in golf looked like a gratulate him. 13 Miami 24•9 AUGUSTA, Ga. -Tiger broke out on his face and first-timer at Augusta Woods closed with a 1­14 Arkansas 22-6 Woods is the Masters his right fist punched the National, making a mess under 71 and won for the 15 Baylor 19·11 champion once again, air with fury. out of the last two holes to second time in a playoff at 16 Oregon Stale 24·4 turning back a surprising Everything else about finish with two bogeys and a major, wrapping up a 17 Nebraska 25-3 challenge Sunday with a this Masters was up in the allow DiMarco one more long and bizarre week at 18 Texas A&M 22-10 shot of sheer magic and a air to the very end. chance. 'Augusta National that 19 College of Charleston 23·4 birdie putt to win a playoff First came the most Woods made sure that included two rain delays, 20 Florida State 29·7 he never expected. improbable birdie on the was all he got. an eagle putt that Woods 
21 Long Beach State 21-10 
A spectacular finish of 16th, when Woods skipped DiMarco again came up rolled off the green and 
22 Au bum 21-10 
birdies and bogeys finally his chip shot up the slope short of the green, and into the creek, a record 
23 Missouri 23·5 
ended when Woods pro­and watched it crawl 25 chipped up for a tap-in par. run of birdies to get back 
24 Arizona State 21·13 
duced the most important feet down to the cup, He took his hat off and ran into the contention and,
25 Tennessee 20·8 
shot of all -a 15-foot where it paused for 2 full his hand through his hair, finally, the fight of his life. birdie putt on the first seconds before dropping. crouched and kept looking He now has nine majors extra hole to capture his "I would rank that as one up at Woods and down at for his career, halfway fourth green jacket and of the best ones I've ever his feet, afraid to watch, home to the standard set 
College Softball finally put away the gritty hit," Woods said. "It turned perhaps knowing what was by Jack Nicklaus. Chris DiMarco. things around. It was pret· about to happen. But this didn't look likeBig East Conference Woods knew it was over ty huge." When the ball disap­the same guy who won his when the ball was a foot Then came an even big-peared, DiMarco walked first eight majors.
team conf. record 
Seton Half 6·2·0 19-10·0 NOTRE DAME 4•0·0 24-8·0 Syracuse 4-2-0 16·12·0 
IN BRIEF 
Boston College 3-3-0 13~15·0 Connecticut 3-7·0 11·18·0 
Providence 3-1·0 23·8·0 Arena Football P.layer dies Lucas in the head. Lucas did not the U.S. Open in 1998, Wimbledon in Pittsburgh 2-2·0 15-17-0 of spinal cord injury move after falling to the ground. 1999 and the Australian Open in St. John's 2·4·0 15·21·0 LOS ANGELES -Former NFL Lucas was injured during kickoff. 2000. Villanova 2-4·0 24·16·0 defensive lineman AI Lucas died Davenport~nssecond Red Sox to raise banner, Rutgers 1-5·0 1·27·0 Sunday from a presumed spinal cord Bauscfi & Lomb title return for celebration 
injury sustained while trying to make AMELIA ISLAND, Fla. -Maybe BOSTON -The Boston Red Sox a tackle for the Los Angeles Avengers Lindsay Davenport's clay-court suc­made their fans wait 86 years for during an Arena Football League cess at Amelia Island will finally another World Series title and only game, the team said. carry over to the French Open. gave them five months to celebrate. 
Lucas was taken to California Davenport's powerful serve helped The champions return to Boston on
around the dial 
Hospital and all attempts to revive her offset 36 unforced errors and Monday for a combined celebration him were unsuccessful, team physi­beat Silvia Farina Elia 7-5, 7-5 to mark their first title since 1918, cian Dr. Luga Podesta said in a state­Sunday to win the Bausch & Lomb their home opener and a game
MLB 

ment. Championships for the second con­against the rival New York Yankees
Yankees at Red Sox, 3 p.m., ESPN 
"It is with great sadness that we secutive year. -any one"'of which would be enough confirm the passing of Al Lucas. At "This is a huge win for me," for a sellout at Fenway P.ark. It's also POKER this time, the thoughts and prayers of Davenport said. "Whenever I can win the first game back for manager the entire Avenger organization are on cla~nd in a really tough tourna­Terry Francona, who left the team
2004 World Series, 5 p.m., ESPN2 
with his wife and family," team ment, it gives me a lot of excite· after complaining of chest pains owner and chief executive officer ment." before the third game of the season. 
WRESTLING 
Casey Wasserman said in a state­It also could give her more confl· "We're excited to get back to 2005 NCAA Championships, 4:30p.m., ment. dence heading into the French Open Fenway," first baseman Kevin Millar ESPNU Television replays showed Lucas next month. Davenport hasn't said Sunday after a 4-3 loss to the bending down to make a tackle. The reached the quarterfinals at Roland Toronto Blue Jays dropped the Red Dragons' ball carrier and a blocker Garros since 1999. The French also Sox to 2-4 -last in the AL East. "It
COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
tumbled over his head and back, with is the only Grand Slam that eludes feels like we've been on the road 
Texas A&M at Utah, 8 p.m., ESPNU 
the blocker's leg appearing to hit the 28-year-old Californian, who won since October." 

page 19

Monday,April II, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
you can have a challenging career and a life too. when we were named one of FORTUNE Magazine's 100 best companies to work for~ smart staff development and our vacation policy were cited. we believe in building challenging careers and giving you the support to lead a fulfilling life inside and outside of work. those are our priorities. what are yours? visit pwc.com/mypriorities 

•. 
-----~---------~----------------~-~------------------------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
THE MASTERS 

DiMarco com.es up short yet again 
Associated Press 

AUGUSTA, Ga. -Surely one of these days Chris DiMarco will be leading a major when it counts. 
But give him his due this time: lie stared down Tiger Woods in one of the greatest duels in Masters history. 
Matching Woods almost shot for shot in an epic showdown, DiMarco overcame a two-stroke deficit in the final two holes Sunday, nearly holing out a chip at No. 18 that would have claimed his lirst major champi­onship. 
In the end, it wasn't quite enough. DiMarco forced a play­off but could only make par on the first extra hole. Then he could only watch as Woods rolled in a 15-foot birdie to win his fourth Masters and ninth major overall. 
DiMarco keeps contending in the biggest tournaments ­especially at Augusta. He's led at the end of a round live times in live years, including both the 18-and 36-hole marks of this one. 
For the second year in a row, he played in the linal group at the Masters. For the second straight major, he was involved in a playoff. 
"This was a good gut check for me," DiMarco said. "I felt like I proved a lot to myself." 
Last August, DiMarco was matched against Justin Leonard and Vijay Singh in a three-hole playoff at the PGA Championship at Whistling Straits. 

Singh birdied the first extra hole and parred the next two for the victory. DiMarco had to be content with a closing 71, the lone player in the last nine groups to break par. 
DiMarco put up an even lower score Sunday, finishing with a 4-under-par 68 that had him pumping his fist, dropping to his knees and thoroughly enjoy­ing the moment. 
This was just the sort of chance that someone with DiMarco's combative, gritty, emotional personality lives for. 
One hole against the greatest player of the generation. 
Winner take all. 

"I told my caddie walking down 18, 'If you're not having fun doing this, there's some­thing wrong with you,"' DiMarco said. "Sure, my stom­ach was churning. But it's nice to know when you're stomach's going crazy and you're going crazy, you can still perform. 
"If I can do it in this atmos­phere, I can do it anywhere." Woods was certainly impressed. "He never gives up," Woods said. "He never backs off." 
Tiger hits shot for the ages 
Associated Press 

AUGUSTA, Ga. -The shot was already brilliant before it hung tantalizingly on the lip of the cup. 
Now it was about to become a part of Masters lore. 
Tiger Woods didn't just help himself win a fourth green jack­et with his improbable chip-in on the 16th hole. He gave the Masters a moment as memo­rable as any that had come before it. 
When gravity finally took over and the ball toppled slowly into the cup early Sunday evening, the shot Woods hit from an awkward lie just off the back of the green became more than just an instant classic for televi­sion highlight shows. 
It joined iconic moments of the past that have defined the Masters as golfs greatest stage. 
Larry Mize chipping in to beat Greg Norman in a playoff in 1987. The eagle putt Jack Nicklaus made in 1986 on his way to a sixth green jacket, and the shot that stuck precariously on the bank of the 12th hole to allow Fred Couples to win in 1992. 
Or, long before television, Gene Sarazen's 4-wood for a double-eagle on the 15th hole that set up his win. 
"I was just trying to throw the ball up there on the hill and let it feed down there and hopeful­ly have a makable putt," Woods said. "All of a sudden, it looked pretty good, and all of a sudden it looked like really good, and it looked like how could it not go in, and how did it not go in, and all of a sudden it went in. 
"So, it was pretty sweet." 

It wasn't just the magnitude of the moment, or the difficulty of the show, though the moment was huge and the shot was treacherous. 
It was the image of the ball rolling slowly down the slope and stopping for two full sec­onds before finally dropping into the cup. 
It didn't matter if you saw Woods make the playoff putt for his fourth green jacket a short time later. Seeing The Shot was bigger, and the fans who did erupted in a raucous celebra­tion when it dropped. 
"Somehow an earthquake happened and it fell into the hole," Woods said. 
Woods was crouched over, as if he were deep in prayer, as the ball traveled its last few inches toward the hole. 
When it fell, Woods raised himself up, yelled and began high-fiving caddie Steve Williams, while thousands packed around the green did the same with whoever hap­pened to be next to them. 
The shot came as Chris DiMarco was making a run at Woods, who had a precarious one-shot lead as they stood on the tee of the 170-yard par 3 hole that has been so pivotal in so many Masters. 
DiMarco had honors and hit a good shot about 15 feet beneath the hole. Woods landed long with his 8-iron, and his ball caught up against the edge of the second cut over the back of the green. 
If DiMarco made his putt and Woods couldn't get up-and­down for par, the tournament that seemed to be his when he started the day with a string of four straight birdies might have been snatched from his grasp. 
With one brilliant stroke, though, Woods walked off the green with a two-shot lead and enough of a cushion to still get into a playoff despite bogeys on the final two holes. 
"I think under the circum­stances it's one of the best I've ever hit . . . only because of the turning point," Woods said. "If Chris makes his putt, I make bogey and all of a sudden it's a different ball game. All of a sudden I'm one back." 
Woods didn't have many options from the precarious spot his ball ended up beyond the green. He couldn't hit the ball directly at the hole because of the slope, so he looked way left to make the slope work for him. 
Woods remembered Davis Love III making a similar shot in 1999, but his was more diffi­cult because it was up against the deeper rough. Afraid he might hit it fat because of the lie, he told himself to hit it hard enough to get up the slope and take his chances from there. 
Woods found a spot well left on the green where the fading sunlight was coming through the trees and took a few prac­tice swipes with his wedge. 
"A lot of it is luck but I hit it pretty good," Woods said. "I hit it right on the spot." 
Monday, April 11, 2005 
NCAA HOCKEY 

Pioneers knock off Sioux for title 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio -Denver made sure the biggest cele­bration was the last one. 
Freshman Paul Stastny scored two goals and Peter Mannino made them stand up with an almost flawless per­formance in goal to help Denver successfully defend its national title with a 4-1 victo­ry over North Dakota on Saturday night. 
After coach George Gwozdecky won his 400th game the last time Denver beat North Dakota, last month in the conference semifinals, he stopped the celebration to address his team. 
"I told them, 'Thank you very much. But it sure would be a lot sweeter to celebrate after No. 405,"' Gwozdecky said. 
It was the seventh national title for Denver (32-9-2), which was ranked No. 1 for most of the season. 
Stastny, the son of Hall of Farner Peter Stastny, also had an assist on Gabe Gauthier's empty-netter. Jeff Drummond scored the Pioneers' first goal, Kevin Ulanski had two assists and Gauthier had an assist to go with his 26th goal of the year. 
Mannino, who was selected the most outstanding player of the Frozen Four, had a career-high 44 saves two nights after stopping 41 shots in a 6-2 win over Colorado College in the semifinals. 
"My team allowed me to see the puck," Mannino said. "When there were rebounds, they cleaned them right away. I just wanted to keep [the Fighting Sioux] off the board, and it worked out." 
With the score tied 1-1 mid­way through the second peri­od, Denver scored on a power play. The Pioneers had six power-play goals in their win in the semis after scoring on just three of their 45 power­play chances leading into the Frozen Four. 
Ulanski's hard slap shot from the top of the right cir­cle sliced through heavy traf­fic in the slot, and appeared to glance off Stastny's stick. Stastny redirected it high over the right shoulder of goaltender Jordan Parise, who could do nothing but watch the puck settle into the net. 
Only it didn't glance off Stastny's stick. "It hit me right in the butt," he said with a laugh. 
Stastny added his 17th goal in the third period to give Mannino and the Pioneers' defense a cushion. 

·------------------~ 
25%0FF 
Expires 4/30/05 
REGULAR PRICE  
PACKAGES AND LOTIONS  
.ifQ8 .;§I;Y.R~~NI§ WIIU, X6~t.Q. tQ:  
bV'CKKJ#'OE:Z VMO 1'"0~'\.~~"\N'".;a,  
L='E"en.rvu bt::~.'c~"·  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  IT'S MORE FUN IN THE DARK.  I  
I  I  
I  I  

·------------------· 

Monday, April II, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Two-tournament winning streak snapped at Purdue 
Irish finish eighth in 13-team field at Lady Boilermaker Invite 
Hy KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Writer 
Notre Damo fell short ol' nxt!HHJing its two-tournanwnt winning streak this weekend at tho Lady Boilermaker lnvil.ational in West Lafayette, Ind. Thn Irish finished eighth i n tho 1:{-to am l'io I d with a three-day, 57-over par total ol' 
921. 
Katie Brophy led tlw Irish with a I :{-over par 221), tying for 18th pllu:e in the tourna­nwnt. Tho junior 
eo-captain was ly
"We just didn't
tlw low seorer· for we beat Iowa tlw team for tlw play to the best of State because sixth time this our potential." that means that s ~~as on. Brophy we will have a was still not satis­good chance to 
Katie Brophy 
lied with her por­go to regionals," formanen. howev­Irish co-captain Brophy said. 
we are all just underneath our potontial," she said. 
Despite the eighth-place lin­ish, Notre Dame took a major stride forwar·d in its quest for an at-largo bid to the NCAA Central Hegional Championship. Coming into tho tournament, the Irish worn ranked 19th in the Central region. The top 18 toams in the region qualil'y for the championship tournament. 
Iowa State entered the tour­nanwnt rankod 18th, but fin­ished one spot behind the Irish in the Lady Boilermaker Invitational. 
With its performance this weekend, Notre Dame over­took the important 18th spot in the rankings. 
"We were real­
excited that 

er. 
"I was disap­pointo d . I eo ul d n 't g~~ t any­thing going really," Brophy said. "I had sonw good shots oul tlwn~. but I also had some shots that I was not so pumped about." 
Sophomore Staeny Brown l'inislwd two strokes hnhind Brophy with a 2:~ I. while son­ior Kart' n l.o tta rn eo rd nd a 
233. Noriko Nakazaki followed up lwr lirst plaen linish at last wn1~k's Indiana Invitational with a 21-over par 237. 
1:n~shmen .Jane Len and Alnjandra Diaz-Calderon roundml oul the Irish lineup, shooting 239 and 247, respoe­tively. 
Whitt~ tlw team was disap­pointed with its play, Brophy snns delinite nmsons for opti­mism. 
"The thing is we are all rnal­ly dose to breaking through and playing really well, but 
RlJN FOR A CAlJSE...RUN FOR HOPE! 
.•. 
The Irish will 

next travel to Columbus, Ohio, for thn Lady Bueknyn Invita-tional this corning wonkend. The tourna­ment will be an important one for the Irish as Miehigan State (17th in the Contral region) will bn in tho lield. 
"Tho next tournament is important because Michigan State is one ranking above us," Brophy said. "If we play woll and bnat Michigan State then we will for sure go to rogionals." 
Notre Dame roalizes, though, that it must turn in a hotter performanee next weekend to accomplish this goal. 
"We just didn't play to the best of our potential lthis weokend I and we all know that." Brophy said. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrennan@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish fall to Blue Devils, Cardinal 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
It was a weekend of almosts and could-have-beens for the Irish, as missed opportunities and strong goaltending sank Notre Dame this weekend. The Irish fell to 3-8 on the season after dropping a pair of games, losing to No. 2-ranked Duke 11­8 on Friday before falling 6-5 in a closoly-contestod game against Stanford on Sunday afternoon. 
In both contests, the Notre Dame defense had to try to pick up for the struggles the team had with the ball. 
"The defense played awe­some; the defense kept us in the game," head coach Tracy Coyne said after Sunday's game against Stanford. 
On Friday. the dofonso proved itself by containing Blue Devils junior star Katie Chrest, who has been practicing with the USA World Cup Team, holding her to two goals, the latter of which came with just 45 sec­onds to play in the second half. 
"Megan Fitzpatrick was the matchup on her, but I think other defenders collapsing and taking her out of her game, I think,t~at reall~ made a difl'er­ence, Coyne smd. 

Hegardless, Duke still jumped out to an early lead, getting goals from Kristen Waagbo and Caroline Cryer to take a 2-0 lead just 5:53 into the game. It was a lead they would never lose, as Notre Dame never got closer than a two-point deficit in the game. Behind four goals from freshman Hache! Sanford, the Blue Devils Jed 5-2 at halftime and built up to a 10-5 lead with 
5:20 to go in the game before the Irish dosed the game on a 3­1 run to make the game's last minutes interesting. 
The last minute ell'ort was ini­tiated by freshman Caitlin McKinney, who scored with 4:20 left to cut the lead to 10-6. McKinney was very busy all afternoon, scoring three goals and adding two assists to lead the team with live points. 
Despite the loss, Coyne was pleased with the way her team played. 
"I think if we always played 


BETH WERNETfThe Observer Irish attack Heather Ferguson looks to pass to a teammate during Notre Dame's 12-9 win over Rutgers on April 3. 
like this, we'd be in the top live," Coyne said. 
Unfortunately for her team, they did not play the same on Sunday, falling to Stanford in the lowest-scoring contest in the seven-year history of Notre Dame women's lacrosse. 
Th11 game started oil' at a lhm­zied pace, with both offenses ineiTeetive despite opemting at noarly full spnnd the entim lirst half. 
Notre Damn jumped out to a 2-1 lead when junior Chrysti Foote, who finished with two goals and two assists and has almady bonn oll'ensive player of the week twiee this year, scored one of each to give her team the lead 13:3.9 into the first hall'. llowever, Stanford quickly ral­lied and went into halftime with a 4-:~ lead. 
In the second half, the pace slowed down, and Notre Dame had opportunities to scorn. 
llowever, the Irish were with­out McKinney the entire second half. as shn was njeeted with 
2:09 left in the lirst period for checking to the head. 
"Obviously, she's a huge part of the attacking unit and she generates a lot. but I still felt conlident in the othnr players we had out there," Coyne said. 
Ultimately, the game came down to the wire, as it was tied at live for most ol' the linal seven minutes. The Irish had an opportunity to scorn with a minuto to go in the game, but Stanli1rd goalie Laura Shane got tho biggest of her 14 saves to shut down Notro I>anw's chances. Moments later, Nina Pantano beat Notre Dame's Carol Dixon for tho game-win­ner for the Cardinal with just 14 seconds remaining. 
"We got some good looks, but I was disappointed with how we executed at the very end on attack," Coyne said. 
Notrn Dame is in action again next Saturday at 1 p.m. against Georgetown at Moose Krause Stadium. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

IIEI.I' .JEStS 1\AVARRO GET THE KIDNEY J'R\NSI'LANT IIF Nf<:tmS U\' PARTICIPATING IN HOLY ('H.OSS COLLHa:·s ''Rt:N FOR HOPE" ON A.I'IUL 16111! REGISTER B\' -U'RIL 1211' FOR $10! (l~~~istratinn \\<ill he open the dny of the rnC"c for an udditional $5 to your original price.) 
TO I>OW~LOAD Ttllo: RE<;JSTI{ATION FORM ANU FOR MORE l"'I'Ol~MATIO"' I'LEASE VISIT Ol)l{ WF.HSITE AT: 
www.hl·c-nd.cdu 
By KYLE CASSILY Spons Writer 
The Irish returnnd with a near clean sweep from the Indiana State Championships this week­end in Indianapolis. The Irish blew opponents Purdue, Indiana and Louisville out of the water in a full day of competition. 
The first varsity eight shelllin­ished first in the morning raees, bnfi>re pulling in a seeond plaeo finish, comparatively disappoint­ing for the weekend, in the afternoon race. 
The women completed the morning raec with a time of 6 minutes, 56.8 seconds, a full seven seconds ahead of runner­up Indiana. Purdue pulled in the rear almost 25 seconds behind the vietorious Irish. 
The day concluded for the first varsity eight when Louisville took over first, a little under seven seconds ahead of the Irish, in the second race of the day. 
Coach Martin Stone of the 
WOMEN'S CREW 

Team nearly s-weeps state finals 
Irish was mostly satislied with how the weekend played out, only wishing that the afternoon race had gone better for his women. 
"We needed to go faster, nspe­eially against Louisville," he said in regards to the afternoon raee and the always-looming NCAA Championship bids up for grabs. "We have some strong teams to go up against in our region." 
The rest of tho weekend wnnt flawlessly for a dominant Irish crew. 
The seeond Varsity eight wont unbeaten in two races, winning the first by over six seconds with Indiana and 24 seconds in front of Purdue. The Irish won the afternoon race by a similar mar­gin, but won over new opponent Louisville, with Indiana coming in third. 
Hookie Notre Dame rowers left Indianapolis in similar eom­pany with their upperclassmen teammates, as the Novice eight won both races. The !irst raee saw Notre Dame emerge on top of Indiana and Purdue by a com­
fortable maq..,rin. 
The seeond raee provided the Irish with its touglwst opponenlo.; of the day, eaeh other. Notre Dame lieldnd two shells in the seeond raen that linisht~d in the top two spolo.;, separated by 837 seconds. 
The first varsity limr boats in the morning linished one-two, ahead of Purdue and Indiana. The al'ternoon proved just as successful, with only one of the Notre Dame shells eompoting in the first division race, and stayed true to Irish liJI'In for the weekend coming out on top. 
The second varsity four oblit­erated a much-slower Indiana boat by slightly below 20 sec­onds. Onee again the Irish eom­peted with each other in the afternoon race of the second varsity four, lim:ing tho opposing schools to finish lower in tho standings. 
The Irish next face Michigan State Tuesday. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Monday, April 11, 2005

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Datne clobbers Ball State 6-1 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish took ofl" early against Ball State and never looked back Saturday, forcing their way to a dominating win over their in-state rival. 
It was fitting that the Irish fin­ished their home season the way they began -with a resounding victory. 
No. 32 Notre Dame defeated No. 62 Ball State 6-1 on Saturday, improving the team's record to 16-6 with one match to play before heading into the postsea­son. 
"It's been a fun four years," sen­ior co-captain Brent D'Amico said. "[There have been] great people on our teams -it's been a really enjoyable four years and this was a good way to go out, with everyone showing up today and not really laying down." 
The hard work was noticeable to coach Bobby Bayliss. 
''I'm really proud of the level of effort and focus that we kept through the match," he said. ''I'm particularly pleased with the dou­bles point because they had won the doubles point from Illinois ... and we got clobbered by Illinois." 
The Irish dropped just one set in doubles to tally the first point of the match, providing a boost to an up-and-down doubles season. 
"I was disappointed we suffered the two early breaks at number one doubles and got down so far, but I'm very proud of the way we stayed in the match," Bayliss said. "That was a factor, because if they could close that out and get that first doubles match, it puts enormous pressure on both our teams." 
Although the No. 1 duo of D'Amico and Eric Langenkamp would fall to No. 25 Baccarani and Thompson of Ball State 8-5, Bayliss thinks the rally from a larger deficit helped the team stay alive in doubles play. 
"As we fought back from 6-1 to 7-5, we extended the match 'fl.nd actually won third doubles before one finished. It really helped out our two doubles," he said. 
Stephen Bass and Sheeva Parbhu were first off the courts at No.3, registering an 8-4 victory. 

"Stephen and Sheeva are begin­ning to do what we thought they could do," Bayliss said. "That's a good win for us." 
In the final doubles match on the court, King and Keckley clinched the point for the Irish with an 8-5 victory. 
King would later clinch the overall match for the Irish with his victory at No. 2 doubles. Singles play was decisive in favor of the Irish, as the team lost only one set in addition to a point­deciding tiebreaker at No. 5 to cost the Irish a shutout. 
''I'm particularly proud of the way everybody stayed on track," Bayliss said. "We got on top pretty quick in a number of the matches and that happens a lot ... today we really got on top and we kept them down. So that's a good sign, this is one of our best matches of the year, for sure." 
Freshman Sheeva Parbhu was first off the courts at No. 4 after racking up a 6-2, 6-2 victory. In his rookie season with the Irish, he is 17-3 overall, seeing most of his playing time at No. 4. 
D'Amico slashed his way to a 6­0, 6-2 victory at No. 3 to finish his career at Notre Dame on a high note. King clinched the match at No.2 with a 6-1, 6-2 victory. 
Langenkamp won 6-4, 6-4 at No. 5 and Stephen Bass made a tough win at No. 1 look easy with a 7-6 (7-5), 6-3 victory. 
However, the Irish were com­petitive in every set. 
Irackli Ackhvlediani lost a valiant effort at No. 5, falling 2-6, 7-5, 1-0 {10-7) in a hard-fought battle of tiebreakers. 
"Everyone who won, I think, just did a great job," D'Amico said. "They won fairly quickly and handily, everyone did a great job." 
With hard work, the Irish have a shot at winning another Big East title and hopefully making a deep run in the NCAA's. 
"[We'll] just do what we do best -work hard," D'Amico said. "I think we'll have a little bit of a break after our last match and before Big East so we'll probably rest a little bit and recuperate there." 
The Irish take the courts on Wednesday at Ohio State for their final match of the season. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish s-weep Panthers for 13th -win in a ro-w 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
Although most teams would­n't like to be associated with the bad luck of the number 13, the Irish are more than content to have a 13-game win streak that has been built on skill, not luck. 
Behind dominant pitching and an impressive hitting display that pounded out a fitting 13 runs, Notre Dame took both games of its doubleheader against Pittsburgh Saturday to move to 24-8 on the year and a perfect 4-0 in the Big East. The Irish defeated the Panthers 7-2 in the first game, and then com­pleted the sweep with a 6-0 shutout in game two. 
"This was a much better Pitt team than usual, so I was a little worried going in, but we hit well," coach Deanna Gumpf said. "We had some clutch hit­ting, some two-out hitting, and some players going deep. We scored a lot of runs in a lot of different ways." 
The Notre Dame offense recorded 23 hits on its way to a big day on offense that contin­ues the team's hot hitting. They were led by freshman Katie Laing, who had three hits and four RBis, including a solo home run that helped start the Irish scoring rally in the first game. 
"Katie's really stepped up a lot this year," Gumpf said. "She's been a nice addition to the line­up. She's small, but she adds some pop. She came in and has been great for the team." 
After getting off to a slow start this season, the Notre Dame offense has heated up faster than the South Bend weather in recent weeks, and continues to pound opposing pitching and put runs on the scoreboard. 
"A lot of the improvement on offense is just getting into a rhythm; I think our girls are getting more confident," Gumpf said. "They're starting to figure out what's working for them. When we're hitting the ball like we did against Pitt, it makes everything easier. And when they're hitting the ball, this team is a lot of fun to watch play." 

While Notre Dame's offense beat up on Pittsburgh, the start­ing pitching continued to be nearly unhittable. 
Both senior Steffany Stenglein and junior Heather Booth struck out 12 Panthers in com­plete game victories, allowing only six hits and two runs between them for the double­header. 
Stenglein scattered four hits through seven innings, and was in total control until the bottom of the seventh, when she allowed a two-run homer to spoil her chance at a shutout. She posted a double-digit strike­out game for the fifth time in her last six starts. 
"Stenglein was just untouch­able up until the seventh, and then she left one up there for them to hit," Gumpf said. "With the exception of that one pitch, she pitched a great game." 
Booth turned in a similar per­formance in the second game, giving up only two hits on her way to a complete game shutout. Her 12-strikeout per­formance tied a career high, and included two clutch strike­outs with the bases loaded and no outs. 
"Heather showed some guts in that second game," Gumpf said. "She had the bases loaded with no outs, and she shut down Pittsburgh's No. 4 and 5 hitters -just made them look silly." 
With their starting pitching overpowering opponents and the offense starting to click, the Irish will look to extend their 13-game win streak when they take on Purdue in a double­header on Tuesday. 
"Winning streaks are great, but the main thing this team needs to focus on is one game at a time," Gumpf said. "Take it one pitch, one hit, one inning and one game at a time." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy 1 @nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles drop two to Albion 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior Staff Writer 
The Belles' lack of playing experience showed this Saturday as Saint Mary's (5-10, 0-2 in the MIAA) dropped a doubleheader on the road against Adrian (8-13, 3-3). The Belles fell 4-1 in game one, then dropped game two by a close 11-9 score. 
The losses were the first of the MIAA season for Saint Mary's, which has now lost 11 games in a row. The Belles last won March 10 against Emmanuel (Mass.) College. 
Saint Mary's fell behind early in both games, and matched Adrian nearly hit for hit in the doubleheader -the Bulldogs had 18 hits to the Belles' 17­but the Belles hitters could not get the big hit when the team needed it. 
Saint Mary's was also unable to take advantage of the Bulldogs' miscues. Adrian com­mitted nine errors in the dou­bleheader, including seven in game two. 
Bridget Grall started the first game for the Belles, allowing seven hits and four earned runs while striking out two. Adrian's Kelli Szczepanski scatted six hits while striking out three to earn the victory as both pitchers went seven innings. 
Sarah Miesle picked up the only RBI for Saint Mary's in that game, doubling in the fifth inning to score Katie Cosimano from second base with two outs. 
In the second game, Amando Trevino started on the mound for the Belles but did not make it out of the third inning, as McKenna Corrigan came on in relief with one out in the third. 
We offer 1 0-40+ hours/week Route Delivery and Packaging Positions $6.50-$12.00+/ Hour 800-622-6566 South Bend/North Webster Great Part-Time Hours Available Work Around Your School Schedule with Morning/Afternoon and Weekend Hours Call Today!! No Experience Necessary. Train in one facility during school and work in another during summer break. We offer schedule flexibility. Start training now! 
Schedule an interview A.S.A.P. Bring a Friend. 
For locations visit our website at www.homecityice.com 
Grall later relieved Corrigan, pitching the final two innings ofthe game. 
Trevino allowed seven hits and eight earned runs in a shaky start that included three wild pitches. Corrigan allowed two earned runs, while Grall worked a scoreless sixth and seventh inning. 
Jessica VanTroostenberghe pitched a complete game victo­ry for the Bulldogs, and also hit a solo home run in the first inning. She allowed 11 hits and nine runs, all of which were unearned. 
Laura Heline, Megan Myers and Kimberly Hodges each had one RBI in the Belles' losing effort. 
Saint Mary's remains on the road to face first-place Calvin in a doubleheader Tuesday. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Monday,April, I I 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
BROWNING FOUR DAYS IN JULY 
Thursday April 14 at 7 pm
CINEMA 

THE LAST OF THE HIGH KINGS
This series is part of Thursday April 14 at 1 0 pm

the Keough Institute's "Ireland Beyond BLACK DAY AT BLACKROCK Borders" conference. Friday April 15 at 4 pm 
Admission to these 

BAD BEHAVIOUR
films is free. 

Friday April 15 at 7 pm 
YU MING IS AINM DOM Friday April 15 at 1 0 pm 
RORY O'SHEA WAS HERE 
Friday April 15 at 1 0: 15 pm 
REBEL FRONTIER 
Saturday April 16 at 1 pm 
ROCKY ROAD TO DUBLIN 
Saturday April 16 at 4 pm 
THE MAPMAKER 
Saturday April 1 6 at 7 pm 
DEAD BODIES 
Saturday April 16 at 10 pm 
GUEST ARTISTS 
ALTAN Friday April 15 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
EMERSON STRING QUARTET Saturday April 1 6 at 8 pm • Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
ROBERT BATES ORGAN CONCERTS Sunday April 24 at 4 pm and 8 pm $10 general public, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $3 all students 
THEATRE 
ARCADIA by Tom Stoppard Tuesday April 12 through Saturday April 23 (see website for time details) Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $10 seniors, $8 all students 
MUSIC 
NOT: NOTRE DAME TRIO "An Enjoyable Evening of Jazz" Wednesday April 13 at 8 pm Tickets: $10, $8 faculty/ staff, $5 seniors, $3 all students 
NO COLLEGIUM MUSICUM Thursday April 14 at 8 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
ND PERCUSSION ENSEMBLE Wednesday April 20 at 7:30pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
NOTRE DAME SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA Friday April 22 at 8 pm Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $3 all students 
ND UNIVERSITY BAND AND BRASS ENSEMBLE Sunday April 24 at 3 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
THE NOTRE DAME JAZZ BANDS Sunday April 24 at 7:30pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
ND SYMPHONIC BAND AND SYMPHONIC WINDS Monday April 25 at 7:30pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
THE NOTRE DAME CHORALE AND CHAMBER ORCHESTRA Friday April 29 at 8 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
DANCE 
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY Presented by Southold Dance Theater Tickets: $25, $19 seniors, $12 all students Friday April 29 at 7:30pm Saturday April 30 at 2 and 7:30pm 
SPECIAL FREE FILM EVENT 
JOHN PAUL II: THE MILLENNIAL POPE (1999) Directed by Helen Whitney Leighton Concert Hall Monday April 1 1 at 7 pm Free but ticketed event; call 63 1-2800 to reserve tickets 
..-------------~-------------------------~­
page 24 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 11, 2005 
• 

Monk's Farewell Mass 
Sunday, April 17th 9:00p.m. at the JACC 
All students are invited to attend "Monk's Farewell Mass." Mass will be followed by a reception in honor of Fr. Malloy in the JACC Monogram Room, featuring: 
-Great food and live music-­
--Fr. Malloy will be on hand to greet students-­
Come celebrate with Monk and thank him for 18 years of service to the Student Body of the University ofNotre Dame. 
-7 St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, founded by the late entertainer Danny Thomas, treats about 160 patients every day on an outpatient basis and maintains 56 inpatient beds. -7 It is the first institution established for the sole purpose of conducting basic and clinical research into catastrophic childhood diseases, mainly cancer. -7 St. Jude is the largest childhood cancer research center in the world in terms of the number of patients enrolled on research protocols and successfully treated. -7 The hospital's daily operating costs are approximately $834, 100, which are primarily covered byJ>ublic contributions. 
Apply for the Executive Board of 
Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids 
And Help raise money for St. Jude hospital by planning events and organizing letter-writing campaigns 
For "No childshould die in the dawn oflife." 


For more information and for an application e-mail Stephanie Smith at ssmith6@nd.edu Applications due April 25th! 
I 
' 
I ~ 

Monday, April II, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
FOOTBALL 
Offensive players grasping Weis' playbook 
I 

Irish quarterback Brady Quinn hands off during Saturday's prac­tice at Notre Dame Stadium. Head coach Charlie Wels has been proactive in his Implementation of his offensive system. 

LSAT: MCAT: GRE: 
Classes for the June Now accepting Classes Start Exam Start 5f7 enrollments for the 5/21 August 05 & April 06 Online Computer Taking the October MCAT classes, Adaptive Tests 
LSA T? Place a deposit Enroll In April & Beat Included 
in April and Save $50 I the Price Increase! 
GMAT: DAY: 
Next class starts 6/20, Enroll in April and Beat, the Price Increase, Take the GMAT in the Class Starts 6/9 summer, so you can For the OAT, tool apply this fall I 
1717 South Bend Avenue, South Bend, IN 46637 Right in front of Turtle Creek Apartments on SR 23, 
Space Ia limited. Call or visit us online today to enroll. 
l·BOO·KAP·TEST 
kaptest.com
t:f;tQ!rJI• 
Test Prep end Admissions 

Eagles 
continued from page 24 
John's (7-1), Boston College (7­3), Rutgers (6-3) and Villanova (6-4). 
Tom Thornton, who grew up in Middleboro, Mass., improved to :~-4 on the season by outduel­ing Boston College's Joe Martinez in the seeond game of Saturday's doubleheader. Notro Damn's big lr1ft-hander struek out five, walknd zero and allowed just two earned runs. Martitwz matched Thornton with nino innings and struck out 10, but allowed three runs, two of whieh worn eanwd. 
Tho Irish nHwufaetun1d two runs in the soeond. thanks to HBI singles from Hoss Brezovsky and Soan Gaston. Boston Collegn tied the gauw with runs in the socond and fourth before Matt Edwards providnd Notrn I>amo with thn 
go-ahnad  run  on  an  Hill  
groundout.  
In  Sunday's  game,  Jof'f'  
Manship  f'ired  three  solid  

innings and JolT Samardzija lin­
ished the job by logging the final six to push Notre Dame to vietory. Manship, who is still recovering from elbow surgery and was on a pitch count, struck out one and gave up just threP. hits. Samardzija followod by holding Boston Collego to three hits during the final 18 outs. 
"It took me a little while to got going," Samardzija said. "I had those first few innings to got warm and then I wont out thorn and felt kind' of good. Fastball was working pretty well and I was using the ofT-spend to konp them oiT-balaneo a little bit." 
Besides pitching ofToctivoly, Manship reachod the third inning for tho first time this sea­son, whirh was a good sign for the right-hander and Notre Damn. 
"Just getting ovor that hump of two innings was a bi~ aecom­plishrnont and I was able to do that," Manship said. "I just havn to koop building on it." 
In Saturday's gamn, the Irish took the lead in the sixth when Alex Nettey drilled an HBI triple, putting the visitor's in front 1-0. Af'ter Brett Lilley failed on a suidde squoezo, resulting in Nnttoy being thrown out at the plato, Edwards erankod an HBI doublo and later scorod on a Craig Cooper single. 
Mainieri credited his infinld defensn for improved play in tlw seeond and third ganws. Beforo gamn two, Mainiori moved frnshman second baseman Lilley to third basn and 
, Brezovs ky to second. Tlw movnd paid ofT as I.illny madn several outstanding plays in both games to knnp thn Eaglns o/T tlw basnpaths. 
Boston Colloge took thn open­er X-2 lwhind potPnt produdion from its No. :~ and No. 4 hitt!'rs. JarPd Me<;uire and .Jason I>Plcuwy combinl'd to go 7 -for-8 with live HBis. Cooper linislwd 2-for-:~ and Dan Kapala took tlw loss aftnr allowing S!Wnn runs and live earned during his 71­piteh outing. 
Tlw Irish rnturn to Frank Erk Stadium for a matrhup against Bowling (;rnnn on Tuesday. First pitch is sdwdulnd for 5:05p.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Coach uses hands-on teaching techniques to insta/1 new system 
By PAT LEONARD 
~pom Wrircr 
Charlie Weis has dipped his hands complot11ly into Notre I >anw 's oiTPnSI'. 
"It's a good thing that I have a dependable, veteran group of d~1fensive coadws," Wois said. "lmeause I'm not down tlwrn as much as I'd likP to be with as murh tinw as I'm spPnding on ofTnr1sP." 
Though Weis mado special tnams tho main focus of Saturday's practice in Notre l>anw Stadium, tho lwad roach and fornH1r Patriots offensive coordinator constantly sprin­klod in aspects of thn olTensivo systmu lw is trying to imple­nwnt. 
So far, running haek Darius Walker :-;ays it's working. 
"Individually, I feel I have a great grasp on what the play­book is like and what coach Wnis is looking for when I'm out there," Walknr said. 
Walknr, quarterback Brady ()uinn and sevPral reeeivers spnnt much of the practice standing straight and still at thnir positions as Weis explainnd sidn adjustments, motion exchanges and various sets. Tlw eoach walknd back and forth hntwnen the hash marks. pointing his players to 
Special 
continued from page 24 
rnps rull sprwd than we did today," Wnis said. ''That's tho one thing about spodal teams, other than takn it to tho ground, if you don't practice spndal teams full­spnnd, you dou 't got any good at them." 
Wnis gavo numnrous playors opportunitios at difTment posi­tions ror tho lirst hour of prae­tien. Onn of thoso was wide reeoivnr .lnff Sarnardzija, who was tlw holder on some of tho field goal attempts, tho majority specifk spots in explaining how 
to handln blitz paekages, among 
other scenarios. 
"I think Brady's gottnn plenty of attnntion, and I think tho other guys have gotten morn mental reps than physical reps," Wnis said. "Tiwn1's defi­nitely bonn somo progmss." 
When players are getting physical reps, wide reeniver Jeff Samardzija said groups like the reeeivors have to perform at a high lowl to attraet Weis' atten­tion and to gain favor in tlw coach's evor-ovolving playbook. 
"Coach I Hob I larwllo rnado the point that when we get three or four !n1ceivorsl out there at a time, wn'vo gotta take advan­tage of it," Samardzija said. "We gotta show IWoisJ when we'rn out tlwro that he wants us that there and that he can work with it tlw whole game or· howover long he needs it." 
In his offensive system, We~ traditionally identifies a defense's weak points and then pins those weaknosses against the strengths of his olTense. For that to happen with Notre Dame, Weis 11rst must under­stand the strengths of the Irish ofTnnsn. 
That is why he is experiment­ing with a variety of formations, including trips, four-wide and the throe-tight end. 
On Saturday, the offense did its first couple repetitions of tho threo-tight end set. Tight ends .John Carlson and Anthony Fasano lined up on the left and right ends of the line, respec­tively. Marcus Freeman then 
taken by roturning starter 1>..1. Fitzpatrick and walk-on Bobby Henkes. , 
One player that stood out on returns was junior walk-on Brandon I farris. 
"lie's very fast," Weis said. "And whon you have a guy that's a little bit of an unknown, one thing that stands out about Brandon is that he's very fast. 1.\vo\~thing he's doing, he's vory last. 
Ilarris rotated on punt returns with Hhema MeKnight, Zbikowski and Maurice Stovall, who Weis said is a reliable returner. 
"The one thing is that he's a 
went in motion from left to 
right, stopping bohind quarter­
back Quinn, and blocked for 
Walker on a straight-ahead run 
play. 
Samardzija liked the look of Wnis' variety. 
"If we're three tights, there's really no Jr1tdown thrne-wide," he said. "It's a tough position for Coaeh, because he's gotta weigh his options." 
As Weis weighs his options, the gamo plan evolves and tho coach takes more time out of praetiee to coach stationary players instead of simply watch­ing physical reps. Walker said the players have taken to Weis' style thus far and responded with excitement. 
"Coming from the NFL and in turn with the success he's had, a lot of us think if we can know the game like him, then we can be just as successful," Walker said. "In a sense, yes, coach Weis is a very good teacher and very good leader. But I think with his success, it kind of grav­itates us towards him and makes us want to learn." 
Notes 
+D.J. Fitzpatriek was waiting in the back of the north end zone to punt Saturday when the snap sailed over his head and through the goal posts for a safety. But no worry. The spe­eial teams blunder was inten­tional. 
Weis made his team take the safety, and on another play he had Quinn turn and throw a spiral out of his own end zone 
dep1mdablo eateher of the ball," Weis said of Stovall. "I think the one thing you've always got to start with is someone who can eateh the ball." 
But Weis said it wasn't neces­sarily tho returners he was most eoncerned with. 
"I wasn't worried about those guys baek there," he said. "I was worried about the protection and the coverage right now. I'll worry about those returners eoaehed between [eoach Mike] Haywood and myself. I was more con­cerned with, 'ean we protect and can we cover?"' 
Defensive back Terrail Lambert, who saw a(ition as a 
-all in an attempt to make his players think on their feet come game time. 
"Those situations were all end of game situations," Weis said. "I described it to the players: if you're up by six, and you takn a safety, you're up by four and a field goal still doesn't tie you. So taking a safety sometimes is a smart, strategie move." 
+On another occasion, Weis told Quinn to throw an incom· plete pass and signalnd for the defense to eall timeout. No ono on the defense was fooled, and 
gunner, along with fellow defon­sive baeks Leo Ferrine and Trngg Duerson, said the team's spoed will help on special teams, some­thing he sees as an important part of the game. 
"I think it works to our advan­tage just 'eause we have playors like Leo that are athletie so it's gonna help us on special teams, an important phase of a game people seem to overlook a lot," Lambert said. "So it helps you out on that third of the gamn that you need." 
Notes 
+LJ. Jansen handled long­snapping duties Saturday, roplae­none of them oboyed their eoach's orders, sinee an incom­pletn stops the elock and does not warrant a timeout in an end-game situation. 
"We worn talking about situa­tions where I want our team to be a smart football team," We is said. "I wanted to see what the reaetion was gonna he when I called timeout. I expectPd them to screw i~ ~p there, but they reacted to It. 
Contact Pat Leonard at 
pleonard@nd.edu 
ing last year's snappor Casoy Dunn, who did not return for a fifth year of oligibility. 
+Wois said that lw worked with returners mostly on dod­sion-making, something ho deemed one of the most impor­tant aspects in that position. 
"When I went bark to deal with the rnturnnrs, I tried to givo thmn the simple fundamontals of ded­sion making as a rnturnor," Wois said. "I think one of the easiest ways to got boat on spodal teams is by poor deeision-making by the returners." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 11, 2005 





The Snite Museum of Art and the Department of Art, Art History, and Design congratulate the following Student Show 
award recipients  
The Emil Jacques Gold Medal of Fine Arts  Megan Lloyd  
The Emil jacques Silver Medal ofFine Arts  Mary Prendergast  
Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Art History  
Graduate Level I st prize  Katie Yenglin  
Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Studio Art  Matthew Searle  
Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Design  Michael Elwell  
Eugene M. Riley Photography Prize  Megan Lloyd  
Mabel Mountain Memorial Award  Eric Monger  
Fr. Lauck Award (Best ofBA Show)  Jesus "Chuy" Benitez  
Due to the high caliber of this year's finalists,  Sean Kohl  
the faculty has chosen to split the award into  Jonathan Sundy  
four awards  Laura Vargas  
judith Wrappe Memorial Prize ljunior BFA, given in Fall)  Jennifer DeAngelo  
Snite Museum's Walter R. Beardsley Award  j.Tomas Rivas  
William & Connie GreifAward  
Kathryn Calarco  Rachel Ourada  

Air Force 
continued from page 24 

opportunities for him. I was pleased that he got those [oppor­tunities] and even more pleased that he finished them." 
Notre Dame led 13-11 with 
12:08 remaining in the game after attack Matt Malakoff tallied his third goal of the afternoon. But Air Force came back with goals from Will Meister and Kevin Crumrine, putting the Falcons in position to give the Irish their sncond consec­utive loss.After Notre Dame called a timeout with 1:33 left in the four-minute overtime. Irish mid­fielder Matt Ryan passed the ball off to Giordano in the middle of the field. Giordano then swooped towards the net and slammed the winning goal home past Air Force goalie Justin Pavoni. 
Though the scoreboard reflect­nd a close contest. the stat books told a different story. The Irish col­lected 57 ground balls compared to the Falcons' 38 and Notre Dame out shot Air Force 51­36.Despite these facts, Corrigan was disappointed in what he felt was a sub-par performance by the Irish. 
"I don't think any of us are going to say that we played partic­ularly well," Corrigan said. "That's disappointing but it's overcome a bit by the faet that we did what we had to do to win the game today." 
The Falcons jumped out to an early 3-0 lead and led the Irish 8­3 with eight minutes remaining in the second quarter. Notre Dame then went on a scoring tear, scor­ing five goals [with three coming from Giordano] to tie the score at half. 
Sunday's win over the Falcon's is the frrst step on the path to the NCAA Tournament for the Irish. Last Thursday's 9-6 home loss to Denver hurt Notre Dame's chances at a tournament berth, but Corrigan believes if his squad keeps winning they have a shot. 
"What we can do is try to finish 8-3," Corrigan said. "It's just too early to tell [about NCAA tourna­ment bids]. There are still too many games to be played. But if we can finish 8-3 we're going to be a part of the conversation." 
Irish freshman goalie Joey Kemp, who has seen the majority of playing time this year, was replaced by senior Stewart Crosland with 22:23 left in the game. Crosland made seven saves while Kemp totaled five. 
The contest was the last at home this season for Notre Dame and was contested in front of a crowd of 1,305, the largest ever for a home match. The Irish will next play against No. 17 Fairfield on Sunday. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

~...,....,--=-~---::cc-c::c-=c-----. 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 

have struggled to remain poised under pressure in the past, as they have won just once in their last 10 competitions decided by only one match in the last two seasons (0-5 this spring). 
Notre Dame claimed the all­important doubles point and three singles points en route to its win over Indiana on Sunday. 
Freshman Brook Buck and junior Lauren Connelly were the first to walk off the courts in doubles with a win over Laura McGaffigan 8-2 at No. 2. Securing the doubles point, No. 4 sophomores Catrina and Christian Thompson defeated Dominika Walterova and Sarah Batty at No. 1. The lone Hoosier win came at No. 3 with Dora Vastag and Cecile Perton out­lasting senior captain Sarah Jane Connelly and junior Kiki Stastnv 8-7 (3). 
Ext~nding the team's lead, Christian Thompson beat McGaffigan 7-5, 6-0 at No. 3. Thompson returned to the courts in Saturday's meet against William and Mary after a knee injury had sidelined her for nearly a month. 
No. 37 Catrina Thompson was next to walk away with a win, upending No. 101 Vastag 6-1, 6­2 at No.1. 
The Hoosiers made a come­back following Catrina Thompson's win, picking up the next three singles points. Walterova defeated Lauren Connelly at No. 4 6-4, 6-3 at No. 4, while Perton outlasted Sarah Jane Connelly 6-1, 1-6, 6-3 at No. 6. Batty bested Buck to tie the match 3-3. With the team's fate in her hands, Stastny prevailed over William to secure the win for the team 6-2, 2-6, 6-4 at No. 5. 
ERIN VRANISHfThe Observer 
This was the second day in a row that Stastny had pullPd out a three-set victory in the final match on the court to give Notre Dame the win. 
No. 31 Notre Dame 4, No. 16 William and Mary 3 
Notre Dame started off its stellar weekend with an impres­sive 4-3 upset over No. 16 William and Mary. 
The Irish swept doubles and recorded wins at three of the six singles positions to come out on top. 
The team registered wins in each of the doubles positions, with the Thompson twins notching the first win. Catrina and Christian Thompson edged out Kate Boomershine and Candice Fuchs 8-6 at No. 1. After trailing 6-3, Sarah Jane Connelly and Stastny overcame Linda Yang and Lena Sherbakov 9-8, (7-1) at No.3. 
This was Sarah Jane Connelly's final home match of her career. The senior con­cluded with a 32-14 (.696) home mark in singles and a 36-13 (.735) record in doubles. 
Sister Lauren Connelly and Buck followed Stastny and Sarah Jane Connelly's lead, upsetting the No. 48 team of Amy Wei and Megan Muth 8-4 at No. 2.The Tribe made the match more competitive in sin­gles, with No. 122 Fuchs upsetting No. 37 Catrina Thompson 6-1, 6-0 at No. 1. But Christian Thompson put the Irish back in the lead with a win over Sherbakov at No.3. 
Yang collected a win over Sarah Jane Connelly 6-4, 2-6, 6-4 at No. 6 and later No. 62 Muth defeated No. 90 Buck at No. 2. But Notre Dame surged back with Lauren Connelly besting Wei at No. 4 and Stastny securing the win at No. 5 6-6, 6-4, 6-3. The Irish next take on Illinois at Champaign on Wednesday at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
Zeller 
continued from page 24 

Mr. Basketball attend Notre Dame helps his coaching staff's attempt to recruit more in-state talent. 
Zeller, however, dispelled the notion he is succeeding Thomas as the Mr. Basketball of the Irish. 
'Those are very big shoes to fill, but I think it's different," Zeller said. 'Tm going to define myself as a player diflerently than Chris defined himself. Chris did some amazing things there ... If people are lining me up against that, that's fine, but I'm not gonna line myself up against that. 
''I'm just gonna play my game and do everything I can to help my team win." 
In high school, anyway, Zeller's everything seems to be enough. 
Notes 

+Brey said Sunday that forward Dennis Latimore, who has one year of player eligibility remaining but also has the option of graduat­ing this spring, has not made a 
final decision to stay with the 
tnam or leave. 
"We'll make a final decision on 
that," Brey said. "I was away a lit­
tle bit last week. I'd say we'd 
know in another two weeks. 
"We'll make that official. We've 
been discussing both sides of it, 
but I'd say in two weeks we'll 
make a final decision -before ·school's out certainly." 
+Brey confirmed he is com­
pletely committed as head coach 
of the Notre Dame men's basket­
ball program. The coach has 
repeatedly shaken ofl" rumors that 
he was interested in filling a 
vacancy at the University of 
Virginia. 
''I'm busy with Notre Dame 
business," he said. "We have our 
banquet this week, we're on the 
road recruiting, we'll have some 
kids in visiting. You try to get your 
returning guys in a routine, and 
then you gotta work with your 
seniors as far as getting them situ­
ated. My focus has been here. 
"I think if you ask our players 
they would agree with that." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Michael Elwell Mary Prendergast Megan Lloyd Matthew Searle Eric Monger Allison Traynham 
s~~
Selim Nurudeen 
Museum <ijART 

Monday, April II, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT 
HOW CAN I CREATE A 
MARKETING CAMPAIGN 
IF MY BOSS DOESN'T 
GIVE ME ANY 
PEANUTS 

SCOTT ADAMS 

4/11/05 
u 

TRY GIVING FREE ,5 
u.

SAMPLES TO PEOPLE "':::>,WHO LOOK LIKE ,0 
1il
CELEBRITIES. 
AND DONALD YOU TRUMP. WOULD GIVE ME 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
I HAVE IHE ONL~ S~~TOP WHdS 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ALGOT 

rJ tJ
1 

02005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
G~~~-;;·• tJ 
1 
rJ 
ALBBUE 

THE: RUNNING SHOE: COMPANY 
1 

rJ 
HI!<E:O THE:
www.Jumble.com 
SP!<INTE:I< TO --­
tTEXMEP t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: [I I ]A[ I I][I] 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday' I Jumbles: CAMEO SHEEP BETRAY HARDLY s Answer: When the best-selling biography became a movie, it turned into-THE "REEL" STORY 

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITIES BORN ON THIS UAY: llulcy Joel Osment. 17: Mundy Moore. 21: Ryan Merriman, 22: Steven Seagal. 54 
Happy Birthday: Stand up for what you believe in and you will get others to help you achieve your gouls this year. Don't let stubbornness or emotional issues clnud your mimi or slow you down. Keep things in perspective and don't let your vktories go to your head. Your numbers urc 7. 12. 19. 21\•.W. 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may feel guilty if you have work to do ami dnn't feel like doing it. Cut yourself some slack und tuke the day oil Aggressive ndion will bring you absolutely no satisfaction or rewards toduy. ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Slow down before ynu have a mishap. Keep busy hy spending time lixing up your surroundings. The less time spent freuing over your jnh. the he!ler. Concentrate on anything but work. ••• GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Don't get involved in a risky investment. Make sure everything is in order with your personal papers. An invitation to dn something with old friends will bring hack happy memories. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): This can turn into a push-pull sort of day--someone else wants you to do one thing, but you want to do annther. rind a wuy to compromise. Sharing and adaptability will lead In a happy hnuschnld. •••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will he on the go today: however, that may bother someone you have left behind. Make sure that you think of others he fore you go off on ynur own. A lillie consideration will go a long way. •• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Get out and do something that will bring you knowledge or culture. You may not agree with everything you experience today, but what you learn will he worth it. A change of scenery will he positive. u•u LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do something unique today or get involved in a social event that will bring you in touch with some interesting new friends. This is a greut day for love: don't let it puss you by. Spend time with thut spedal person. ••• SCORPIO (()(•(. 23-Nov. 21): You arc prohahly tuking on too much and feeling a little hogged down. Stop putting so much pressure on yourself. and ligurc out a way to get the help you need. Romance can come into play late in the day, so reserve some 
energy.*** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-I>C(". 21): You will have plenty of choices today, hut if you opt to think about work, you arc likely to upset someone who wants to spend time with you. Opportunities l(lr romance will unfold through friends, relatives or neighbors. 
Use your ingcnuily. *** 

CAI'RICORN (l>cc. 22-Jan. 19): It's up to you to take churgc. Stop anyone who wants to he negative or critical. It may he time to eliminate some of the people in your life who drug you down. This is a great day to upuatc your look. ••••• AQliARilJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may have to watch what you say to whom toduy. The wrong inl(lrmation in the hands of someone who isn't looking out for your hcst interests could end up getting you into trouble. Don't he a follower. •• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make plans to do something special with friends, family or people in your community. Getting out and sharing your thoughts or even taking a short trip will result in meeting interesting people and maybe even a romantic 
encounter. **** · 
• 
Birthday Baby: You arc creative, trendy and determined to get what you want. You are outgoing and know how to work a crowd. You have a uni4uc way of doing things that will always attract the help you need to pursue your dreams. 
Eugenia's Weh sites: astmadl'ice.com for filii, ell!il'nialast.com for colrftdl'llfial consultatimts 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 37 Supreme Diana 
1 Livens (up) 38 Go bad 
5 Snapshot 39 Indy service break
10 Bedazzles 41 Sport
14 Away from the (all-purposewind 
vehicle) 15 Home run king 
42 Med. school 
Hank 
subj. 16 Retail store 

44 Caviar source 17 Glib responses 
45 Price add-on 19 On the ocean 
46 Subway 20 Baffled handhold 

48 Make into law21 Canines or 
bicuspids 50 Kind of stove 
23 New Haven 
53 Smooch collegians 

56 Major company 24 Personal in metallic bugbear products 
27 Observer 57 Drink often served with a
30 Quattros, e.g. lemon twist 31 Some sports 
60 Skin woe 

cars 62 Portfolio hedges
34 Take into custody 64 Eliot or Frost 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


65 One of the nine Muses 66 "Lohengrin" soprano 67 Drags 68 Heroic tales 69 Not shallow 
DOWN 1 Mama's partner 2 Fill with joy 3 Flower feature 4 Protect, as 
freshness 5 Free ticket 6 Hems' partners 7 Source of iron 
or lead 8 Rich pastry 9 Beginning 
1oNot an expert 
11 Exhausted 
12 Before, in verse 
13 Depot: Abbr. 
18 "Forget it!" 
22 Clean air org. 
24 "Blue Hawaii" 
star 
25 Far-reaching view 
26 "The Private Lives of Elizabeth and _" (1939 film) 
28 Common newspaper nickname 
29 Art Deco designer 
31 Understand 

THE OBSERVER 
WILLSHORTZ 

32 Jay Silverheels role 
33 Go back to square one 

35 Surprise greatly 59 "Rush!" order 
52 Designer36 Roman robe 

so It may be a walk-up: Abbr. 
Ashley 
40 Bundle 54 Item worn 61 Dove's sound

43 Things held by around the Moses shoulders 63 Children's game 47 Chest muscle, 55 Pick up on for short 
57 Teensy bit 49 Neatened 

58 Navy noncoms, for short
51 Easy strides 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, April 11, 2005 
page 28 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Zeller is honored as 2005 Indiana Mr. Basketball 
Irish recruit won state championship with buzzer-beater 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
After averaging a near dou­ble-double for the second straight season and hitting a half court buzzer-beater to win the 3A state title, Washington High School senior and Notre Dame recruit Luke Zeller was named the Indianapolis Star 2005 Indiana Mr. Basketball in the newspaper's Sunday edi­tions. 
Zeller received 101 of a possi­ble 247 votes cast by coaches and members of the media. Dominic James of Richmond finished second in the voting with 63 votes. and Josh McRoberts of Carmel was third with 41 votes. Twelve additional high school seniors combined to receive the remaining 42 votes. 
Germantown Academy guard Ryan Ayers, recruited to the Irish along with Zeller, was named the Pennsylvania Gatorade Player of the Year in late March. 
Zeller averaged 19.6 points and 9.6 rebounds per game as a senior, solid numbers especially against the double-and triple­team defenses he faced throughout the season. He did not score a point in the McDonald's All-American game at the Joyce Center March 30, while McRoberts earned the game's MVP honors with 17 points and 12 rebounds. 
But Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said he felt Zeller's post­season performance is what sealed the coveted award for the All-American recruit. 
''I'm happy for Luke," Brey said. "I think it's well-deserved with the way he finished his senior year. It's almost story­book. I was hoping that's the way they would vote when you win a state championship in the fashion he did." 
Zeller's fashion was to demand the ball when his team needed him most. 
With 1.8 seconds remaining in front of 18,345 fans at Canseco Fieldhouse, Zeller asked his coach for the ball during a timeout. Seconds later, he sank the running, half court shot that so many Indiana basketball fans are now familiar with, a moment that would run later in the night as the Top Play on ESPN's Sportscenter. 
Amid the accolades and the praise, however, Zeller -who Brey called a "classy young man" -seemed calm and 
FooTBALL 
Making his point 
Weis has Irish focus on special teams at full speed for half of practice 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
After a 2004 season that saw the Irish continual­ly struggle on special teams, new head coach Charlie Weis is ready to turn that around, and it started Saturday afternoon. 
"He keeps telling us the fastest way to rebuild a team is special teams, and we're trying to rebuild this team as fast as we can," safe-See Also ty Tom Zbikowski said. 
"Offensive players
"Spending a whole hour on special teams is going to hit grasping Weis' home." 
playbook"

Weis said the only way to get better was to go full­page25 speed, which is what the Irish did Saturday, practicing punt coverage and returns, punt protection and field goal kicking at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"I don't think you could have done many more 
see SPECIAL/page 25 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish vvin tvvo over weekend 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
The Irish aren't ones to take baby steps when recovering from their heartbreaking losses earlier this season. 
In fact, No. 31 Notre Dame (11-8) took a giant leap forward this weekend with an upset of No. 16 William and Mary on Saturday and No. 35 Indiana on Sunday, extending its three­match winning streak. 
More heartening, both viato­ries were decided in the final matches of the meet. The Irish 
see TENNIS/page 26 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Last home game sweet 
.. 
vvith vvin over Falcons 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Brian Giordano was not plan­ning on losing the last home game of his career. So the senior Irish midfielder took matters into his own hands by scoring five goals, including the game win­ner, to lead No. 11 Notre Dame (6-3) over Air Force (3-5) 14-13 in overtime Sunday at Moose 
• 
Krause Stadium. 
"I thought that even though we had limited possessions because we didn't clear the ball very well, our offense played well," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "When our offense plays well [Giordano] is going to be the ben­eficiary of that. He's a great fin­isher and when we're playing good offense we're creating 
see AIR FORCE/page 26 

determined in a phone inter­view Sunday night. 
"I was very pleased and it was great to see the support from all the [voters]." Zeller said. "It really kind of humbled me, and I just basically praise God for everything that's happened. 
"I don't think it really changes anything. I'll still go out and play as hard as I can and do everything I can, like I always have." 
.Chris Thomas is the only other player in Notre Dame men's basketball history to receive the award in Indiana. 
Brey said having an Indiana 
see ZELLER/page 26 
BASEBALL 

Team takes two from Eagles 
By JOE HETTLER Senior Staff Writer 
Notre Dame finally got what it needed to win -good pitching. 
After dropping the opening game against Boston College Saturday, the Irish (16-14, 5-4) used two impressive pitching performances to take the series, winning the second game Saturday 3-2 and the only con­test on Sunday 3-0. The wins put Notre Dame in fifth place in the Big East standings behind St. 
see EAGLES/page 25 



MEN'S TENNIS 
SOFTBAll 

ND WOMEN'S GOlf 
THE MASTERS

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
WOMEN'S CREW 
ND defeats Ball State 

Irish finish eighth in 13­
Irish come up one race 
Irish sweep Pittsburgh 

ND drops matches to 
Tiger Woods wins his 
6-1 in second-to-last 
in a road weekend 

team Lady Boilermaker 
No. 2 Duke, unranked 
short of sweeping the 
fourth green jacket, 
doubleheader. 

Inviational.
game of regular season. 
Stanford. 
Indiana State 
beating Chris DiMarco 
Championships. 
in a playoff. 
page 21

page 22 
page 22 
page 21 

page 21 
page 18 

• 





