
The Independent Newspaper Serving N~tre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame Class of 2009 shines as 'strongest ever' 
Incoming freshmen boast high academics, varied involvenzent 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Nt·ws Writer 
During a year when every­thing from tlw presidnnt of the University to the lwad football eoach to the dp,an of First Year 

of Studies has changed, one thing has been constant ­Notre Dame freshmen contin­ue to get stronger academical­ly. 
The class of 2009, eomprised of 2,000 students selected from an applicant pool of 11,316, is as unique and tal­ented as ever before, said director of admissions Dan Saracino. 
"It sounds like an old record, but this elass is stronger than ever," he said. "In terms of 
academics and in terms of broad diversity this class is the strongest ever." 
The class comes to Notre Dame in a time of transition, with University President Father John Jenkins having taken office July 1, and new football coach Charlie Weis set to coach his first game Sept. 3. In the First Year of Studies program, theology professor Rev. Hugh Page takes over for 
see STRONGEST/page II 

NOTRE DAME CLASS OF 2009 
Enrollment: 2,00:Q  21.9% are ethnic minorities.  
Average SAT: 1379  22% ar{l cluldren of alumni.  
Average AC'l': 31.8  

The average stud(~rl,+ t~ked in the top 5.5% of his or her high school graduating class. 
Source: Notre Dame admissions GRAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic 
Stores revel in college shopping rush 
Target, Meijer, TJ Maxx, 
other retailers stock up for move-in weekend 
By MADDIE HANNA Associare News Ediror 
The Seus wonHm are power shop­pers, and South Bond is loving it. 
"(;osh, it's all a blur. We did 90 per­cent of' it today," exclaimed Saint Mary's frnshman MauriHln Seus, rnfnrring to her family's pursuit of tlw pnrf'net dorm room furnishings for her and sister Chrissy, a Saint Mary's sophomom. 
Tlw Sm1s family !11ft tlwir home in southern Orngon and eame baek to South Bnnd days narly to do their shopping hnre. Tlwy'vn alrnady hit Super Target, Meijer and TJ Maxx. 
While not everyone may subscribe to tlw Sm1s' "shop-til-you-drop" plan of' attaek, tlw mad rush to snatch up tlw host dorm room dnals hits the South Bend arna annually as college studenl.s rdurn for tlw school year. 
"Sel'ond to Christmas, it's pretty mudr our busiest season," said Hen11e 

CLAIRE KELLEYrrhe Observer 
StEWE111S, assistant nHtnag11r of' tho 

Meredith Thornburgh, left, a first year law student at Notre Dame, shops with her mother at see SHOPPERS/page 9 Bed, Bath and Beyond Thursday. Businesses in South Bend are boosted by move-in weekend. 

Saint Mary's sees rise in talented freshiTien 
SAIN·r I\1AR'{~S Clt\SS OF 20()9 
'l'hP avNuJ.:tl CPA ra.ag<'s from 3.3fl _, 3.97. 
'l'hP awral{(1 A< 'T ~~ lix~u ~a t,t1 27. 
Tht• av<'ru..:P HAT {'ftngfYA from 1MO t.ol220. 
Most of t.ht• fr·(•shmhn r~mk,~~d in.th~<~'P 22% of th(~ir hiKh sdlOol gr·uduatin •. t~l~i~ qt1j(lt.lt'r. 
Source; Saini Mary's admissions 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saint Mary's Editor 

HncovNing from a signilieant drop in enrollnwnt last ynar, Saint Mary's wnkomnd an aeadmnically strong and gp,ographically diverse lirst year class of 379 studenL'> to campus this weekend. 
GRAHAM EBETSCH!Observer Graphic 

Mmnb11rs of the Saint Mary's dass or 2009 hail f'rom :n dill'or­ent states. While Indiana. Illinois, Michigan and Ohio once again toppNI the list, there were also impressive numbers of students coming from Pennsylvania and Florida, said Dan Meyer, vice 
see SMC/page 10 

Residence halls fill to capacity 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 

In rncn n t years. 0 ITiee of Hesidenee Life and llousing assistant direetor Seott Kachmarik has been faeed with a dilemma -not enough beds for Notre Dame's annual inrlux of frnshman students, which forces his starr to scramble to utilize every inch of' dorm space. 
But this year's biggest-yet overflow may carry weightier conseq uenees than squeezing three freshmen into a convert­ed study lounge. 
"Then1 is nothing lPrt to 'ere­ate'," Kaehmarik said. "We are maxnd out of' every available bed space on campus. This year we have hit our p11ak." 
Additional assistant rectors 
see DORMS/page 9 



New class arrives on campus 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
The last time Jonathon Metallo visited Notre Dame, the high school senior found a cold, grey day in February. But as he checked into Morrissey Hall Wednesday, the sun was out and thfl freshman was full of enthusi­asm li1r band tryouts and the Notre Dame experience. 
''I'm a little nervous but looking forward to it," he said. ''I'm ready to start dasses and meet people." 
While the vast majority of Notre Dame's 2,000 incoming freshmen arrived on campus Friday for Freshmen Orientation, some students began their collegiate careers 
see MOVE-IN/page I 0 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

In good con1pany 
What a year to bn new to Notre Dame. 
You've got company unpaeking your suitcase and hooking up your laptop ­and I'm not just talking about the room­mates and dorm­


mates who will be chanting and sweating by your side all weekend. 
This company is on the ornate fourth floor of the Main Building, where new 

University Claire Heininger
President Father John Jenkins is settling into his Editor in Chief office and his influ­ence. It's on the famed field of Notre Dame Stadium, where new Head Coach Charlie Weis is breaking in his vocal chords and his team. 
Yeah, sure, you say. "I have as much in common with those guys as parietals do with sense." 
You're partly right. You have some­thing they don't. 
Breathing room. 
As the new president and new coach embark on their first year, they'll have dozens of trustees, thousands of alumni and countless more fight song-breath­ing Notre Dame enthusiasts looking over their celebrated shoulders and shining a spotlight of scrutiny on their actions, words and intentions. 
You, on the other hand, are free to make your share of inconspicuous ­and glorious -mistakes. 
If they mess up, they're whisked unceremoniously out of their honey­moon period. If you mess up, you've got a great story. 
I'm not saying there's no pressure. You're part of the smartest class in University history, and I bet most of you didn't come to Notre Dame expecting to throw those achievements away. 
But you'll never be brand new again, and a few harmless rookie mistakes couldn't hurt. 
So get lost on the way to DeBartolo. Twice. Splurge consistently at LaFortune, and watch your waistline expand and your Flex Points dwindle. Pronounce LaFortune "Law For Toon," while you're at it. 
Get caught sleeping in class. Take embarrassing pictures. Throw a cramped dorm party, or 20, and always run out of beer. 
That's what freshman year is for. 
Even at perfection-obsessed Notre Dame-especially at perfection­obsessed Notre Dame-that's what freshman year is for. . 
Take it from a classic Domer perfec­tionist who would never live her fresh­man year again but wouldn't change a thing-you'lllearn infinitely more from one year of college mistakes than from four years of high school striving. 
You're not perfect, and this year won't be, either. 
Embrace it. 
Father Jenkins could raise tuition, and he'd have students groaning. Charlie Weis could punt on fourth-and­short, and he'd have fans booing. But you could spill your tray in the dining hall, and leave your friends laughing. 
Unlike your counterparts getting com­fortable under the Dome and in the house that Rockne built, you can get away with being new in town. So man­gle the football cheers beyond recogni­tion. Procrastinate for days. Run out of spending money by Thanksgiving. 
You'll never again get to enjoy the best part of being new -being so wrong, and so right. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd. edu 

----~---------, 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Saturday, August 20, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ADVICE DO YOU HAVE FOR INCOMING FRESHMEN? 





Colleen Loris Fritz Shadley sophomore sophomore Cavanaugh Siegfried  Emily Kennedy Catherine Pinnaro Nick Chambers sophomore sophomore sophomore Howard Pasquerilla East Alumni  
"Beware of "Don't be a quarter dogs." facebook stalker. "  "Become friends "Don't break "Don't know a with at least parietals your girl's name? one duck." first night Nod and smile." here."  
ORIENTATION WEEKEND  




TODAY TONIGHT SUNDAY 


.... 
<C 
(.) 
0 

..... HIGH 84 HIGH 78 HIGH 81 

LOW 60 LOW 56 LOW 62 

78 54 

76 53 



HIGH LOW 


Saturday, August 20, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ROTC branches greet fresh111en with drills, training 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
Whil1~ most NotrP Damn and Saint Mary's fn•shmPn wPrn ).{rP!\tml Friday by PXtii>Prant Frosh-0 squads spout.in).{ dorm rhnnrs, (,(, siLHIPnts IH').{an t.hnir orienta­tion ParliPr in tlw wPnk with r.ommands from tlwir Otlic!'rs in Char-g~•. 
1:rom physical trainin).{ (PTl nxnrdsns to pizza parliPs. rnarr.hin).{ drills to movie ni).{hts, BnsPrvn OITi!'nr Trainin).{ Corps ( I!OTC) orinntation providnd frnshnwn with both a linmdation of military knowl­Pd).{n and an opportunity to bond with som!' of tlwir IHiow BOT<: studnnts bnforn school l)(').{ins. 
Studnnts from Notrn Danw, Saint Mary's, lloly Cross, Indiana University South BPrHI. Valparaiso Univnrsity and BPtlwl Colln).{n eonvPr).{nd on tlw Notrn Damn campus, which is hornn to thron brandws ol' BOTC. Thn Army, Navy, and Air Forcn BOTC brandws nach hold their own frnshman orinntation, complete with diffPrPnt ruins and varying activities. Navy studnnts arrivnd Sunday. whilo Army and Air ForrP studnnts arrivml Monday. 
Thou).{h limPs and torws variPd bntwPnn tlw hmndws, all BOT<: frnshnwn nngagn,d in physical trainin).{ and IParrwd about military ruins and customs. Many activi­tiPs WPI'P IPd by HOT<: uppnrelassnwn who had undnr).{orw similar oriPntations in ynars past. 
"I thou).{ht it was a rhallnging wPnk as a l'rPshman. and so it's intnrPstin).{ to bP on tlw othPr sidP," said Dyan Guthrin, a soph­onJOI'I\ in Navy HOTC. "While tho frnsh­nu·n rni).{ht l'nd as it' tlw world is cumin).{ to an !'!HI this wnPk. as stall' wn know that !'Vnrythin).{ S!H'VPS l'or the purposn of mak­in).{ th1•m stron).{ h\adnrs and ).{ood naval otlknrs." 
Courtrwy Collins, a nnw mnmb1~r of tlw Army HOTC. said that tho orientation snrvnd as a warm wnleomn to school. She was less than thrilled. however, with the timin).{ of some oriPntation events. 
"Tlw last two days have bonn tho lon).{nst days of' my life," shn said Tunsday. "WP wakn up at S:15 a.m. for 5:30 a.m. l'T." 
That intnnsity is delibnratn, said Lt. Thornsa Brown. who nu1s tho Army's HOTC frnshman orientation. 
"It's basically a crash course on what wn do in the army." Brown said. "Thny learn tho basic skills need1~d to be a soldier. They take tho APFT IArmy Physical Fitnoss Test!. and if tlwy pass, tlwy are ).{ivon a scholarship." 
Brown also nmphasiznd tho social bond­in).{ that occurs during orientation. 
"It's what finally brings classes togeth­or," she said. "Those are people from around the country who will go on past collngo [in tho armed forces). It's a chaneo to get 23 friends right away, friends who will become your family away from home." 
The Navy non: has 25 male and five fomale freshmen midshipmen. Air Forco nOTC wokomnd 10 main and live li1male freshman cadets to its corps. Army non: now includes 12 malo and nine l'mnale l'rnshrnan cadnts. 
"So far [orinntationl has benn lots of fun," said Brittany Shelton ol' Air Foree HOTC. "This is a good way to transition into thn school year and the ROTC pro­gram." 
Orinntation was a timn for tho HOTC upporelassmon to familiarize the fresh­mnn with ruins and drills, but it also pro­vided tho new studnnts with a chance to makn friends for th1,1 coming years. 
"This is the time for thnm to bond and get to know naeh other," Air Foren cadet .len Sayers said. 
Bel'on1 students are able to begin the non: program at Notr!1 Dame, they go throu).{h a detailed process to gain aecept­ance. Each branch of ROTC then usns its own systnm to award student scholar­ships. 
For thn 2004-0S school year, 20 to 25 percent of' the 120 Air Foree HOTC cadets were on full-tuition scholarship, an:ording to a Fob. 23 artielo in Tho Observer. The scholarships are awarded b~tsed on high school records and aeadnmie standing. Anothnr quarter of' Air Foree HOTC stu­dents arn given an 80 poreent scholarship. and the rmnainin).{ 50 pnreont reenivn hall' tuition seholarsh ips, said Colonel Mikn Znnk, department chair of aerospace studies. 
Naval HOTC dof)S not award partial scholarships -students are either on scholarship or they are not. These schol­arships cover tuition, mandatory l'ons, a monthly stipend and $600 a year l'or books. There arc currently live cadets in naval ROTC partidpating without a sehol-arship. 

Army non: is unique in that all stu­dents in tho pro).{ram rncoivn full sdlOhu·­ships to match tho ynarly tuition. Pvnn with yoal'ly tuition inewasns, said M;~jor Gary Masapollo, battalion nxncutivn (ltli­eor of' tho Army HOTC pro).{rarn at Nol.r'(' Darno. in thn F11b. 2:1 artidn. 
Whiln Notw I>anw studPnts arn ).{iVPll full tuition, sd10larships for wonwn par·­ticipating in Army HOT<: from Saint Mary's aw 1·.appnd at $20.000. Masapollo said. 
Kolsoy Larson, a l'rnshrnan Army eadnt, praisod the orinntation expnrinnen. 
"It involvns ).{mat ways to nwnt IWW pPo­plo. liko whnn wn get oil' from doin).{ tlw ropos eourso," sho said. "Wn ).{et to mont our classmatos bof'orn dassos start." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 20, 2005 


Sumtner reading not a requirement for ND Class of 2009 
First Year ofStudies breaks two-year pattern, instead encourages freshmen students to attend September inauguration 
ing "The Vanishing Voter: PublicBy KATIE PERRY Involvement in an Age of Uncertainty" by
News Writer · 
Thomas E. Patterson. Students were asked to read the book as well as partake in 
Though Notre Dame's incoming fresh­online message board discussions about men have plenty to do to prepare for col­related concepts and ideas prior to arriving lege life, they have one less thing to worry on campus in August. about now that summer reading material is In September, FYS invited the Class of no longer required. 2008 to attend a convocation at the Joyce 
For the past two years, the First Year of Center. "Election 2004: A Watershed?" Studies department has required soon-to­was designed to give students a venue to be Domers to read a specified book in speak with Patterson about the upcoming preparation for an academic convocation in presidential and congressional elections. the fall. The assigned literature was also Contrary to the University's wishes, some integrated into the curriculum of many freshmen did not read the book, let alone First Year Composition attend the consequent classes. event. An estimated two­
But this year, the "We will be helping to thirds of the crowd that September inauguration of build interest in this did attend "Election 2004: new University President A Watershed?" left the
exceptional event." 
Father John Jenkins is slat­convocation early during 
ed to include a forum similar the question-and-answer 
in style to past freshmen Kevin Rooney session, accordin,g to a 
academic convocations, so associate dean Sept. 3, 2004 article in 
the reading requirement First Year of Studies The Observer. 
was waived. Sophomore Pat Tennant 
The event, which will be chose to read "The 
~ hosted by former NBC Nightly News aitchor Vanishing Voter" before coming to Notre 
' Tom Brokaw, will also include "intriguing Dame "mostly because it was required and guests from several countries and various also because it was nice having something religious backgrounds," said Kevin Rooney, to read during [summer] work." associate dean of FYS. "I don't know if it was a worthwhile "We decided not to run a similar [aca­experience," Tennant said. "There were demic convocation] this fall," Rooney said. some ideas I found interesting, but I can't "Instead, we will be helping to build inter­say it influenced me in any particular way." est in this exceptional event." Other students, like sophomore Kate A First Year Studies letter mailed this Dugan, read parts of the book but were summer recommended incoming freshmen turned off by its subject matter. to read selected writings from some of the "I started to read the book, but I am not guests of Father Jenkins' inauguration that interested in politics so I just read posted online, Burdin said. enough to get the general idea," said Last year, every member of the class of Dugan, who did not attend the convocation 2008 received a summer mailing contain-and estimated that only half of last year's 

Observer File Photo University President Father John Jenkins speaks at a press conference following the announcement of his nomination in April 2004. His September inauguration will fea­ture a format similar to past academic convocations held for first year students. 
freshmen class read some portion of "The Vanishing Voter." "Very few of my friends actually complet­ed the book," Tennant said. 
Incoming Notre Dame freshman Taylor Burdin was not aware that summer read­ing had been required in the past, as he received no instructions this year. 
"The only people that I know of who [received notice about summer reading] were those students in the Honors Program," Burdin said. 
Students invited to the Honors Program have always received a summer reading list from the University, Rooney said. 
Future summer reading assignments and convocations hinge on the outcome of this year's events. 
"We will evaluate the success of [this year] and then think about the best way to provide an interesting intellectual experi­ence for next September," Rooney said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu Saturday, August 20. 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 


Do you know about the RECTOR FUND? Student Government & the Office of Student Affairs do not want ANYONE to miss out on the "Notre Dame experience." D If you or someone you know does not have money available to pay for things like football tickets, section dinners, fall/spring break service trips, hall dance tickets, concerts on campus, retreats, or other "quality of life at ND" events, the RECTOR FUND can help. 0 To use this money, just talk to any Rector. He or she can use the RECTOR FUND to assist with events like these for students with financial need. 0 Proceeds from "The Shirt" fundraiser supply money for the RECTOR FUND. For more information, check our website: http://osa.nd.edu/rectorfund.shtml  




' 


B 



R 


*WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEWSPAPERS. HAVEN'T YOU HEARD OF PARIETALS YET? 
Meet editors from News, Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, Photo, Graphics, Ads & Business to find out what you could do for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily 
Please Join Us for 


The Observer Open House 
Monday, August 22 4:00p.m. -6:00p.m. Basement of South Dining Hall 
Food will be served. 
Saturday, August 20, 2005
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Muslim professor's visa revoked. Ebersol, dad hurt in plane crash, brother dies. Provost leaves for Wake Forest. 


By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN News Writer 
Tariq Ramadan's visa revoked 
Tariq Ramadan, a prominent but con­troversial Muslim scholar scheduled to teach at the University last fall, had his visa revoked by the State Department July 28 and as a result did not come to Notre Dame. 
Ramadan was hired last spring to raise the profile and div(:lrsifY the curriculum of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and was initially granted a visa after passing a thorough investigation by both the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department. 
Dean Boyd, Homeland Security spokesman, did not comment on the specifics of the decision made about Ramadan, a Swiss citizen, and University spokesman Matt Starin said he did not know why Ramadan was not allowed in the country. 
Ramadan had been accused by Jewish groups in France and the United States of spreading anti-Semitic and Islamic mili­tant ideas. Kroc director Scott Appleby said it seemed as though the visa revoca­tion was a last-second political move by Ramadan's opponents. 
Then-University President Father Edward Malloy expressed frustration about the situation. Notre Dame was not given a reason for the denial of the visa, and Malloy said Ramadan was not informed either. However, a senior gov­ernment official was anonymously quoted in The New York Times, saying that the recommendation to revoke the visa was not based on Ramadan's beliefs. but on "his actions." Starin said he did not know what actions the official was referring to. 
The scholar reapplied for a work visa to teach at Notre Dame after he was encouraged by the University to do so, but resigned from the faculty Dec. 13 with no word from the State Department with regards to his visa. SafeBus plan does not come to fruition 
Despite student government's efforts, SafeBus, a key component of then-stu­dent body president Adam Istvan and vice president Karla Bell's administrative plans, did not materialize. 
The proposal was that a University­sponsored bus, SafeBus, would shuttle students to and from off-campus loca­tions. Initially, the proposal called for the bus to run from 1 a.m. to 4 a.m. on 30­minute intervals and make approximately 10 stops on campus and at various bars and apartment complexes. 
Istvan and Bell took this proposal to the fall meeting of the Board of Trustees, where it was met with harsh criticism. The Board questioned the timing, feasibil­ity and logistics of the SafeBus plan, say­ing that Istvan and Bell should not have broached the topic with trustees before pursuing the plan through usual student government and University channels. 

Trustees also said the proposal sounded too much like other van systems that failed in the past at Notre Dame. They cited concerns of student behavior on the buses as well as the question of who would staff them, saying that the University and Notre Dame Security/Police could not tolerate under­age drinking. 
After the Board of Trustees meeting, Istvan and Bell took the Board's sugges­tion to pursue a contract with a private bus company, contacting Transpo, which currently provides bus service to stu­dents. However, this never materialized, and SafeBus fell by the wayside, mostly due to liability issues. Ebersol family involved in plane crash 
Notre Dame senior Charlie Ebersol sur­vived a November charter plane crash that killed his youngest brother Teddy, 14, and two crewmen and injured his father, NBC Sports Chairman Dick Ebersol. 
The crash happem~d during takeoff in Montrose, Colo., as the Ebersols were returning to South Bend Nov. 28 after a gathering at the Notre Dame football game that Saturday against the University of Southern California, where son Willie Ebersol, 18, is a freshman. The family had stopped in Colorado to drop off Dick Ebersol's wife, actress Susan Saint James ofthe 1980s television series "Kate and Allie." 
The private jet, carrying six people, crashed during takeoff from Montrose Regional airport, which is located approx­imately 185 miles southwest of Denver and serves the Telluride Ski Area. 
The plane skidded sideways after impact, ripping off the cockpit and one of the wings, an eyewitness told the Associated Press. 
Teddy Ebersol was ejected from the plane and died instantly, Montrose County Coroner Mark Young told the Montrose Daily Press, and Dick Ebersol was pulled out of the wreckage by Charlie Ebersol. 
Teddy Ebersol's body was found the Monday after the crash underneath the wreckage following an extensive search of the wooded crash site, Young said. 
Charlie Ebersol, 21, played a vocal role in Notre Dame student government, twice running for student body president and losing by narrow margins in 2003 and 2004. During the 2003-04 term, he served as manager of the Student Union Board and was a member of the Council of Representatives. 
Dick Ebersol, 57, became president of NBC Sports in 1989, and most recently worked with Notre Dame football to nationally televise home games on NBC. In December 2003, he, athletic director Kevin White and Malloy worked to a sign a contract extension through 2010. Notre Dame makes controversial foot­ball coaching change 
For the first time ever, Notre Dame fired its football coach before his original contract expired, ousting Tyrone Willingham after three seasons at the 
2004. 
helm of the Irish Nov. 30. 
Willingham, the first black hnad coach 
in any sport at Notre Dame, was fired by 
Notre Dame's senior leadership after a 
21-15 career record. 
The firing of Willingham sparked much 
debate on campus, including a protest by 
approximately 30-40 ethnic minority stu­
dents on the steps of the Main Building. 
They carried posters reading "$ Cost ND 
its integrity," "Never before, never again" 
and "We want Ty back." 
Chandra Johnson, assistant to Malloy, shaved her head ,to protest the firing, say­ing she would remain bald until the Irish win a national championship. She said the firing process was flawed and that as a result, diversity at the University will suffer. T-shirts critical of Notre Dame and . in support of Willingham were also dis­
tributed. 
Malloy said he was embarrassed to be 
the president of Notre Dame after 
Willingham was fired, saying that he did 
not make the decision to terminate the 
coach. Malloy and then-University 
President-elect Father John Jenkins had 
a policy in place whieh dictated that deci­
sions that affected Notre Dame post-July 
1 (Jenkins' takeover date) would fall to 
Jenkins. 
New England Patriots offensive coordi­
nator Charlie Wei.'l was hired Dec. 12 to 
replace Willingham after a widely publi­
cized coaching search. Wei.'l, a 1978 grad­
uate of the University, balanced both jobs 
until after the Super Bowl, which the 
Patriots won. 
After Weis was hired, Malloy said the 
new coach had his full support. 
Hatch to take over at Wake Forest 
University Provost Nathan Hatch, the 
second-ranking officer in the Notre Dame 
administration, said in January he would 
leave the University July 1 to become the 
president of Wake Forest University. 
Hatch, who joined the Notre Dame fac­
ulty in 1975, has overseen Notre Dame's 
academic affairs as provost since 1996. 
He replaces Thomas Hearn, Jr., who 
announced his retirement from Wake 
Forest last April after serving as president 
since 1983. 
Hatch cited the fact that Wake Forest 
has a similar environment to Notre Dame 
as one of the factors that attracted him 
there. The University, located in Winston­
Salem, N.C., has an enrollment of 6,500 
students, smaller than Notre Dame, but 
has religious roots, as it was founded as a 
Baptist institution but became independ­
ent in the 1980s. 
Hatch served as the associate dean of 
the College of Arts and Letters from 1983­
88 and the acting dean in 1988-89. He 
was also elected as the University's vice 
president for graduate studies and 
research in 1989 before he became 
provost. 
Jenkins named Thomas G. Burish, 
president of Washington and Lee 
University, the new provost on July 21. 
Burish, a Notre Dame alumnus, was also 
Summer 2004 -Notre August 2004 -For the second straight year, Notre Dame tops the Sept. 30, 2004 _First Year of S1;udies Dean Nov. 27, 2004 -Nor:e Dame's Dame decides not to renew • Princeton Review's ']\Jrernative Lifestyles Not i\n Alternative" category. Eileen Kolman announces she will retire in football team is defeated by USC the athletic department's $50,000 August 2004 -Due to rising numbers of both seniors June after her third five-year contract expires.48-10. It is widely reporte~ that yearly sponsorship agreement with staying on campus and accepted female freshman, most Oct. 7, 2004-The Board of Trustees harshly questions the_losspromp~ed a meettngwlth Taco Bell because of women's dorms faced an overcrowding crisis this year. the timing, feasibility and logistics of student government's Uruverstty Pres!dent-elect Father concerns raised Subsequently, the Office of Residence Life 'Was forced Notre Dame SafeBus proposal. The idea was one of Jolm Jenkins and selected by the Progressive to convert every available study lounge into a livable the major platforms of the leadership of student body members of the Board of Student Alliance. 1".":::'i..~ space and raise many double occupancy rooms to triples. president Adam Istvan and vice president Karla Bell. Trustees to discuss the possibility 
Sept. 12, 2004-Ryan O'Connor, a 2002 Nov. 8, 2004-A male is reported to be in
2004 
July 28, 2004-The State 

Notre Dame graduate, was struck and killed Pasquerilla West during the hours of 7 and 
Department revokes the 


by a car driven by a Saint Mary's sophomore 8 a.m., apparently vandalizing the dorm with 
visa of Tariq Ramadan, a 

when he ran into the street after leaving a I obscenities and frightening several residents. 
prominent but controversial ocal bar. 

Muslim scholar scheduled to teach Islamic philosophy and 

Ebersol, and killed his yatmgest brother ethics this fall at Notre Drune. "Teddy Ebersol, 14, and two crewmen in 
Compiled from Observer reports 

Montrose, Colo. 

page 7 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 20, 2005 
Trustee charged with domestic battery. Dome begins regilding, seniors speak out. Monk remembered in last year. 
e e


In ev1ew 
•2005 
appointed a profi~ssor of' psychology. lin will hn rnsponsihiP f(H" all acadmic matters as tiJP snr.ond-ranking ollidal at the University. 
Trustee charged with battery, resigns post 
l'ornwr Notre Damn football AII­Anwri(:an and trustne Dave Duorson was rhar-g~•d with w;saulting his wifi~ Fob. 3 at tlw Morris Inn and m; a msult rnsignnd his post on tlw Board of Trustoes. 
I>Lwrson, a Univorsity truston since 2001, voluntarily rnsignod his post ;Lilnr tlw inci­dent and is also no longer tlw prnsidnnt of tlw Monogram Club, whnrn his torm was sd to nxpirn in .Juno. 
lin Wil'> dmrgml with two counts of bat­tnry and two counts of domostic battory, each a dw;s A misdomnanor. 
Acmrding to tlw prosm:utor's supplemen­tal aflidavit on tho CiL'>n, Duerson allogndly struck his wm~. Alida Duerson, and pushed lwr out of thPir hotd room early that morn­ing. Slw Wil'> trnatod at a loml hospital ;u1d l"lliPil'illd. 
Tlw lhwrsons worn on campus for the wintnr Board ofTrustnns mooting, and Dave lluorson, a mnmbnr of tho Board's Student Afl"airs Committno and Audit Committee, did not atbmd oither of thn trustees' sched­uled sessions. 
l>aw lhwrson dnf'nrrnd his initial C(iurt date f()f" tho misdnmmtnor 1L'>sault charges until April 2H. 
l>avn Duerson, a 19H:~ Notre Dame grad­uate, is thn filtllldnr, prosident and CEO of Duorson Foods, LLC, a high-volume meat procnssor l(w m<~jor rnstaurants and rntail rhains. lin ontnl"lld business after winning two Supor Bowls in tho NFL with the Chic:ago Boars (11JH5) and New York Giants (JIJIJO) and mtrning NFL Man of tho Year honors in 19H7. 
Dave Ihwrson also rnc<iivnd the prnsti­gious Sorin Award from the Notrn Dame Alumni A'isodation in 2001. 
I In is well-known on campus for hi<> point­Pd rmnarks about Notrn Damn liJOtball, erit­idzing tlw administration f(Jr the firing of Willingham. lkfi1rn that, he wa<> part of the Monogram Club's Iotter to the University that rritidzed tlw way the football program W<L'> managnd. Transition occurs at the top of the Church 
Pope John Paul II passnd away in April aflnr 2(> ynars at tho holm of the Catllolic Church, and Notrn Damn honored his papa­cy with mnmorial services across campus. Thn popn, who was well-known for his World Youth Days, wa<> honornd in rosary prayers, Masses and vespers at Notre Damn. 
Students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's who were studying abroad flocked to St. Potnr's Square to witness John Paul Il's I<L<>t days. 
.John Paul II was rnmembered at Notre Damn for his worldliness and his many travnls. Notrn Dame proli1ssors were fea­tured in major publieations as well as on m;~jor nntworks to talk about .John Paul II and to porHinr his succnssor as the papal 1:ondavn met. 
Fathnr Virgilio 1\ilzondo, a visiting prof(1s­sor in Notn• Damn's Latino studies dnpart­
mont, remuntod his visit with tho pope in 
19H7 in San Antonio, Texas. 
Notrn Dame had University roprosnnta­tivns at tho funoral in Homo -tho Supnrior General of the Congregaziono Di Santa Croce, Very Hcwmmd llugh (]nary, his two <L<>sistanL<> and Father Carl Eboy, the proi:u­rator gnnnral of tho Con1,rmgation. 
Eventually, the traditional white smoke arose, and German Cardinal Joseph Hatzingor was ehosen as the 265th pope. Taking the name of Bonndict XVI, tim nnw pope was seen by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's professors as a very conservative choice. 
Hatzingor was described as a Vatican insider by some proli1ssors, and others saw him as an intellectual person and a thought­ful. spiritual individual. 
Dome regilding sparks debate 
Notre Dame announend March 4 that tho Golden Domn wa<; going to b!l regilded for tim 10th time in school history. The project, with an initial eost of $300,000, was neces­sary dun to the deteriorating conditions of tl1e Dome, according to University ollidals. 
The faet that the process would not be completed until this fall prompted a severe backlash from the senior dass, as many studnnL<> worn upset that the Dome would be covered in scaffolding for their May graduation. 
1\xneutivo Vice President John AJlleck­Graves initially said there wa<> no other way to do the repairs, saying that the landmark sufl"nred structural damages and needed immediate attention. Senior class prnsident Darrnll Scott met with AITinck-Gravns in late March with a proposal to takn down the scallolding one wonk bef(Jre gruduation day, allowing the Dome to be visible f(Jr com­mencement, then rebuilding thn scaffolding. Scott estimated this would add two wonks to the process. 
llowevnr, Afllnck-Graves said the contrac­tors nstimated it would push tho rogilding back p<L'>t tho dead linn of Oct. 1. 
Then on April 7, it was announced that tl1e seall"olding would be partially removed in time for graduation so that the Dome it<>elf could be vi'>ible. A'i a result, workers would work longer hours to ensum an Oct. 1 completion date. 
That compromise was what Scott and student body president Adam Istvan initially requested, but due to a mi'>communication, Aflleck-Graves thought they wanted the scaffolding removed from tile drum of the Dome a<; well. 
He continued to work behind the scenes and eventually came up witll tllis compro­mise, which Scott, Istvan and the senior da<;s appreeiated and welcomed. 
After tile agreement was reached, NDSP began an all-night guard at tile ba<;e of the Main Building due to reports that students were climbing tile scafl(J!ding. Ollieers cited safety concerns as their main reason for doing so. 
The Dome ws finished in mid-August and scallblding continuos to como down as stu­donL'> arrive on eampus. New Student Center opens at Saint 
Mary's 
Aller months of anticipation, the new Studnnt Center opened at Saint Mary's March B. 
Tho three-story building houses morn than a dozen olliees, ineluding tim Shaheen Bookstorn, First Sourcn Bank, campus min­istry and student government. It is also home to meeting rooms and conference rooms liw student groups such as stmiPnt government, the Blue Mantle and a work area for The Observer. There i'> al<>o a new women's resource center to supplornent the current LeMans Hall space. 
Construction began in early 2004 on the Student Center, and work on the interior wa<; almost finished in February. Student<> now enter tllo dining hall through tile main entrance of tile Student Center. 
The new bookstore in the Student Center is twice the size of the old one, and as a rnsult, student<; should expect to see double thn merchandi'ie. 
The Student Center is also home to a cybor cafe, where students have wireless Internet access. The cafe has grab-and-go style meaL'> as well as an outdoor patio fac­ingLeMans. 
In addition to these oliices, the Student Center is home to the President's Dining Hoom, which has space for dining with about 60 visiting dignitaries and guests, a preparation area lor catering and a terrace. 
Monk honored in final year as president 
In his last year at the helm of Notre Dame, Malloy was remembered fondly by student<>, faculty and administrators. 
At tile end of March, Malloy was honored for his commitment to diversity with a reception in the I lesburgh Library. Malloy, who took office in 1987, was honored for his eiTorts to increase diversity at Notre Dame, as tile presence of minority student<> on campus increased from 7.7 percent of the student body in 1986 to 16.6 percent in 2004, according to statistics provided by tile OITice of Institutional Research. 
Malloy was also honored at a farewell Ma<;s April 17, when all dorm Masses wem cancelled so that students could attend tile campus-wide Mass. More tllan 3,000 people gathered in the Joyce Center to honor Malloy. 
During tile Mass, Malloy spoke of tile hi'>­torieal significance of the presidential tran­sition between him and Jenkins, as it is only Notre Dame's second in tile last 53 years. 
Student body president Dave Baron paid tribute to Malloy on behalf of the students, presenting three images of Malloy. The first wa<; a gatekeeper, saying Malloy made tile campus a welcoming place. The second was a cardboard cutout of Malloy playing bas­ketball for Notre Dame, carried by senior class president Darrell Scott. The final was Malloy's nickname, "Monk," which Baron used a<; a symbol ofhis spirituality. 
Jenkins took over as University president on July 1. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Jan. 14, 2005-Keough freshman Dan Kish, 19, dies in an Indianapolis April 5, 2005 -Faculty Senate hospital after complications during heart surgery to implant a pacemaker. announces the formation of a coach before his original contract 
Jan. 21, 2005-University 
committee tasked with creating expired, tiring 'l)·rone Willinglwn Provost Nathan !latch, the March 4, 2005 -President 
a new mechanism for students after three seasons. The firing of second-ranking officer in the C;eorge \X: Bush speaks 
to review courses. \\"illingham, Notre Dame's first black 1\:otre Dame administration, about Social Security at the 

April 19, 2005 -Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger is
head coach in an\· sport, sparks is named president at \\'ake Joyce Center in a non­elected successor to Pope _lohn Paul II and 
2 0 0 5 
contro\Trsy on campus with students Forest [lniversitv afrer 30 University sponsored event. 

takes the name Pope Benedict XV I. 
and facultY. ~·ears at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 8, 2005 -Student Gowrnment April 2, 2005 -Pope _lohn Paul II dies 

Dec. 14, 2004 · 1\:ew Feb. 16, 2005 -Vagina April 22, 2005 -_,\ssistant I )irector launches a free, one-month trial of rhe after a 2(J-year term as pope. Students 
Monologues author of 1\!otrc Dame Sccurit~-/Police
l·.ngl:iml Patriots 
College Readership program. The New abroad in Rome flock to St. Peter's


t·:ye t·:nsler speaks on Chuck I furler is tired In· rhc
oftetht\c coordinator . .
York Times, l :s,\ 'l(xlay m1d the Chicago St]Uare, and the campus, triggering l' nivcrsi tY for alleged! y l>ci ng<tnd I1J7H t\orrc I >a tnt Tnbune were made m·ailahle to students Uni,•ersity sends untruthful in an tm·cstigation ingraduate Charlit· \\i_·ts protests.

each day in l4loca6ons on campus. representatives which former 1\!otrc Dame trusteets hired as Notre Dame's Feb. 10, 2005-Notre Dame announces a 7 perccnr tuition increase for next to the funeral. 

Dave Duerson was charged with an2Hth head football coach. 
year, an increase of $2,(J22. Saint l\lary's will increase tuition next year by 4 percent. 

incident at tht.• Morris Inn. 
GRAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic 



page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 20, 2005 

for the 2005-2006 Auademiu Year 

From the Division of Student Affairs 
Rev. Mark L. Poorman, U.S.U. 

Ms. Ann Firth 
Associate VP for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-2685 
Sr·. ~la1·y Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
Assistant VP·for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-5550 

Vice President for Student Affairs  
316 Main Building  
631-7394  
~h·. William Ki1·k  Sr·. Jean Lenz, O.S.f.  
Associate VP for Residence Life  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  
316 Main Building  316 Main Building  
631-6144  631-5550  
~Is. ,Jennifer ~lonahan  

D1·. G. David Moss 

Assistant VP for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-5550 
Executive Assistant to the Vice President 
316 Main Building 631-5550 
ALCOHOij &DRUG EDUCATION 
Ms. Gina Firth, Director 311 LaFortune Student Center 631-7970 


CAREER CENTER 
Mr. Lee Svete, Director 248 Flanner Hall 631-5200 
INTERNATlONAij STUDENT SERVICES &ACTIVITIES 
Mr. Bong Miquiabas, Director 204 LaFortune Student Center 631-3825 


RESIDENCE LIFE &HOUSING 
Mr. Jeffrey Shoup, Director 305 Main Building 631-5878 

STllDENT AC1,1VITUJS 
Mr. Brian Coughlin, Director 315 LaFortune Student Center 631-7308 

CAMPUS ~IINISTRY 
Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C., Director 316 Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 


GENDER RELATIONS CENTER 
Ms. Heather Rakoay, Director 217 LaFortune Student Center 631-9340 
MULTICULTURAL STUDENT PROGRAMS &SERVICES 
Ms. Iris Outlaw, Director 210 LaFortune Student Center 631-6841 

SECURITY 
Mr. Rex Rakow, Director 204 Hammes-Mowbray Hall 631-5555 
UNIVERSITY COUNSELING UENTl~R 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Director University Counseling Center 631-7336 
UNIVERSITY HEAI1TH SERVICES 
Ms. Ann E. Kleva, Director Student Health Center 631-7497 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
. W NOTRE DAME 

Saturday, August 20, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Shoppers 
continued from page 1 
Mishawaka Super Target. "It's a huge upswing in a small timP." 
Stevens said Super Target prepares by designing a staffing plan months in advance. examining what areas WPrP hit hardest by last year's llood of studPnts. tlwn deriding what nwrchand isn to stockpile. 
"We'll see about a 25-:W per­r.Pnt bump this WPPk and next," said Tim Corbell. store manager for 
Some stores also expand 
thoir hours for the move-in 
period. Shirley MacDonald, 
office manager of the Grape 
Hoad Bed. Bath and Beyond, 
said the store opened earlier 
and dosed later the past few 
days. 
"We normally dose at 9:30, 
but this is to accommodate 
those kids·," MacDonald said. 
"Because that's wlwn everyone 
usually hits town." 
Milst storns have taken some measures to attract students. Some are to be expeetml. like ·nationwide advertising cam­paigns; others are a little more 

the~ Crape Hoad "We'll see about a surprising. \1PijPr. "We~ turn Take goldfish
25-30 percent

around and rP­drag racing. for mPrrhandise tlw hump this week example. store almost and next." "There's two exrlusively l'or tlw rain gutters rolll•gp students." [whnrn tho gold­
Tim Corbett

CoriJPtt. rPI'errPd fish are lo last Thursday store manager dropped I. Pnoplo through this Meijer pick their gold­

Monday as tlw "l'ivP day swing." MPijor's busiest sales period. 
"It's up tlwre with Eastnr, Thanksgiving. Christmas," he said. "It.'s very. wry strong for thP ralogori.ns it impact~." 
Store managPrs have lwen smart about loading their shPlves with anything and nverything tlw avPrage college student c:ould need. 
"Hnally, what you' I'C) looking al is anything you'd take to set up an ap<u·tnwnt," Corbett said. "It.'s laundry baskets. light bulbs. Brita water filters. bean­bags. U-loeks ... " 
"Of course. tho basics for 
lish and can win 
tickets to a dmg raen." Corbntt said of Mnijnr's somnwhat bizarre evnnt. held for lhn second limn this year. Mnijnr has also ol'fornd ovents likn rock wall climbing. T-shirt lin-dying and gummy worm and sundae eating contnsts. 
Dospite the extra effort rnquirPd. store managnrs say they enjoy the annual student swarm. eiting the accompany­ing spike in sales. 
"It's always good when the eollnge students eome baek," Stevens said. "It's just a little bonus. Thny shop our clothing more. It's probably good 

srhool, pons "We buy more /stock/ in for most and papers," South Bend­
general, more less

StevPns said. Mishawaka 
"For our eol­expensive options. businesses." 
lngn students. because the students Corbett. said it's. tlw futons. the period
already have so

the body pil­gave Meijer a 
lows our much expense. " chance to cus­
hody pillows tomize its a r n 1'1 y i n g o IT Gwen Addis business. tlw shnlvns." "We really
assistant manager

EvPn small pride our-
Futon Factory

busi nnsses arc• selves on 
getting in on thP action. Gwen Addis. assista[lt manager for tho Futon Factory. said she sees a dnl'iniln sales increase each year. 
"Wn buy more lsloekl in gnn­eral. more lf)SS expensive options, beeausn the students already have so much OXJHmse," Addis said. 
becoming a 
destination point for students," he said. "If you aren't on top of your game, it shows pretty quick. You get to be morP of an entrepreneur, and that's one of those things we really like." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
BETH WERNETfThe Observer 

Pangborn Hall converted a former study lounge into a quint because of lack of space in the female dormitory. The housing crunch has reached a peak this year and, if overcrowding continues to rise, the Office of Residence Life and Housing said they will be forced to make significant changes. 

Do riDs 
continued from page I 
in some dorms. slightly increasing enrollment and the 
University's 96 percent retention rate from freshman to senior year are respon­sible for the bed short­age. Kaehm­
arik said. For now. Hesidence Life has 

living space. changing dou­ble-size rooms into triples and converting former .study lounges that housed three students last year into space for four. 
But if the overcrowding 
"Enrollment has been growing by ro or I 2 students every year, but that adds up. " 
Scott Kachmarik assistant director 
continues to rise, tlw Ol'l'ice of Hesidence Life will be forced to take more drastic measures, Kachmarik said. 
"We may have to do a lottery for seniors to 
Residence Life and Housing determine who 
can live on cam­
pus," he said. 


managed to make room by And while creating ever­converting study lounges into more cramped quarters is 
50% 



REG. PRICES 
Douglas Road east to Grape, tum right (soultt) onto Grape Road, 1/2mile on left at stoplight, · 

working for the short term. Kachmarik says new dorms arn needed to permanently solve the probiPrn. Tho University's strategic plan. rnlnasnd last Novomber, out­lines the construction of four new residence halls within the next 10 years. 
The new dorms would bn buill not so more students could attend Notre Damn ­the Univnrsity is committed to maintaining its current enrollment -but rather to relieve the overcrowding 
probl~1m. 
"Enrollment has been grow­ing by 10 or 12 students every year. but that adds up," Kachmarik said. "Students want to live on campus.• But the reality is that we need students to evontually movn off campus. I need at least 1,600 students every year to move out of their residence halls." 
Last fall the overflow was experienced mostly in the 13 women's residence halls. but this year. tho 14 men's dorms are just as full. 
Of the men's dorms. Keough and O'Neill have experienced the ovorl'low most this yoar. Kaehmarik said. 
Father Peter .!arret. reetor of Keough. said this year his dorm will roach its higlwst population sin<:e its conslrur­tion in 199(J. Thankfully, thn dorm was buill to adapt to overcrowding, lw said. 
"The study loungPs in Keough and O'NPill wow built to be eonverled Ito dorm rooms!." .larrnt said. "Tiwy a ro prn tty much tlw sanw size as doubles so spacn wisP it's not n~ally an issw•." 
.Jarret said thn studnnts sPnm morn or less unafToetnd by the increasing number of resident~ in his hall. 
"They take it in stride," he said. "Thn morn tho merrier." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Saturday, August 20, 2005
page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Move-In 
continued from page 1 
a Las Vegas native whose biggest concern about Notre Dame is the weather. 
''I'm worried about the win­ter," she said. ''I've also never had humidity before." 
Avery Ambrose, a citizen of Trinidad and Tobago, will also be in for a change of climate. Part of the three percent of students in the Class of 2009 from outside the United States, Ambrose selected Notre Dame for its his­tory and reputation in athletics. 
"I want to have fun and get my degree," he said. 
Freshmen in the ROTC pro­gram moved in for the second time on Wednesday, when they transitioned to their own dorms from temporary housing. 
Ken Shamrell and D.J. McGill were more than happy to move into their Siegfried double after a stint in Keenan, which housed ROTC male freshmen. 
Shamrell, a Vancouver native, described the transition as "glo­rious." 
Incoming freshmen at Saint Mary's expressed many of the same emotions as those at Notre Dame, emphasizing the difficulty of gathering up all their belong­ings and moving them into a dorm room.. 
Becca Mason described the frustrations of packing her clothes, posters, pictures and stereo for the drive from St. Joseph, Mich. 
"The hardest part about pack­ing was just getting everything done," she said. "I wanted to wear some stuff, but it was already packed. My mom was getting angry at me." 
Neither Mason nor classmate Alicen Miller described their farewells as overly emotional. Miller and her mother drove from Indianapolis to Saint Mary's in a car packed full of all her col­lege necessities. She arrived at school early due to commitments with the Saint Mary's cross­country team. 
''I'm ready to be out of the house," she said. "I get along 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
president for Enrollment 
Management. 
The median GPA for first year students ranges from 3.36 to 3.97, Meyer said, and the aver­age high school class ranking is the top 22 percentile. The medi­an ACT score ranges from 23 to 27 and the median SAT score is between 1070 and 1220. 
The incoming class also includes 18 high school valedic­torians and one salutatorian, Meyer said. 
Academically, the class is com­parable to those of past years, said interim director of admis­sions Mona Bowe. 
"It is very similar as the last two years, a little bit stronger," Bowe said. "The median scores are a little higher. I am very happy with the quality [of the class]." 
· Roughly one third of the class have mothers who graduated from Saint Mary's, a typical fig­ure, Bowe said. 
An unusually small Saint 



Admissions public and pri­
"It is very similar 
counselors also vate, Bowe said. kept in much clos­as the last two While Bowe er contact with years, a little bit said she is confi­applicants and dent in the
stronger."
potential appli­progress the cants throughout admissions the winter and Mona Bowe office has made, spring, Bowe said. director of admissions she and her col­days earlier because of obliga­tions to athletics, Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) or band. 
Dorm rectors have been doing their best to ensure. that the freshman transition goes smoothly for both early and standard arrivals. 
Welsh Family rector Candace Carson prepared a packet for the freshman that includes the hall weekend schedule, the University orientation schedule, hall staff information, tips on room configurations, conversa­tion guidelines, this season's football schedule and a list of local taxi numbers. 
Carson also gives each student and her parents a copy of her business card, complete with hall staff names and numbers on the back. 

"We greet not only the girl but also her family," she said. "We want to make everyone feel com­fortable. We take the name Welsh Family seriously. We are a family. Notre Dame is about community, and that starts in the hall." 
Dorm Freshman Orientation staffs have also been preparing throughout the summer for the weekend's events. 
"We'll be there with a big smile and a helping hand. We'll show them the ropes," said Emmanuel Zervoudakis, a Dillon junior. 
Zervoudakis' Freshman Orientation memories include a "Braveheart" night when Dillon freshmen ate stew with their hands and then engaged in a water balloon fight. Fellow Dillon junior Joe McKenna remembers running through the fountain. 
While freshman Sarah Schreiber has wanted to attend Notre Dame from an early age, she acknowledged that leaving home for college brought with it mixed emotions. The change was eased by phone calls received from people in both Farley Hall and the band, she said. 
"I want to be [with the band] on the sidelines," said Schreiber, Mary's first year class last year, composed of just 352 students, caused concern on campus and forced admissions counselors to intensifY recruiting methods. 

"We did a second push with applications right after the beginning of the year [in January] and that worked," Bowe said. 
The admissions office targets a special group of studentS and gained 38 more women for the class, Bowe said. 
cent of the total college appii-· cants nationally are interested in attending a women's college, she said. 
"Most of the students who apply to Saint Mary's apply in spite of the fact that it is a women's college, not because it is a women's college," Bowe said. 
Saint Mary's applicants rarely apply to other women's colleges but rather to large coeducation­
al schools, both 
Targeted high school seniors who did not initiate communication with the school themselves were called or sent information. 
New facilities on campus, including the Noble Family Dining Hall, Opus Apartments and the Student Center served to attract potential students to the College, and feedback after campus tours was strong, Bowe said. 
Bowe said that Saint Mary's is competing for a very small pool of students. Less than five per-
leagues will con­tinue to refine their recruiting efforts. 
"I think we need to focus more on transfers." Bowe said. "This year we have 33. I think that is an area where we can improve." 
International students is another demographic the College needs to emphasize, 
· Bowe said. The class of 2009 has only one foreign student, an unusually low number. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
with my family and whatnot, but I am ready to move on." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 



WAL MART 

What: 

~ Shopping trip to your local Wal*Martfor all your college needs 
~A FREE CARE PACKAGE FOR ALL STUDENTS 

When: 
Sunday, August 21 
-Pickup times ~ Ipm; 2pm,· 3pm 

-Drop qfftimes @ campus ~ 4pm ; 6pm (6pm is last droJJ-qff at rampusJ 1\londay, August 22 
-Pickup times ,..., 1 pm ; 2pm; 3 pm 

-Drop qfftimes @ campus ,...., 4pm ; 6pm (6pm is last drop-qffat campus) 

Where: 

Our chartered bus will pick up and drop qffstudents at the LibraJ)l 
Circle on Notre Dame's campus. 


Who: 

AIL Saint Mary's, Holy Cross', and Notre Datne students! 

How Much: 

Tize busfare isfree, and the school supplies are at the lowest prices rif theyear at your South Bend and Mishawaka Wal-Marts! 
Questions?? Please contact :Misty@ SBcnd Wal-Mart 243-4915 ext. 103 3701 Portage Road 




_.}' •.: , 'f"" ; :n ... ~ Saturday, August 20, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 11 


+ Thirteen percent wore editors or high school publica­tions 
BETH WERNET (The Observer 

Notre Dame freshmen from foreign countries listen at the interna­tional student orientation Thursday at LaFortune Student Center. 

Strongest 
continued from page 1 
I>!\ an 1\ i Inn 11 K o lm an . who rntirnd last spring after 15 ynars at tlw lw lm of' tlw pro­gram. Tlwrn is nvnn a nnw 1\lltrancn to campus. 
"It's an nxcil.ing timn to bn horn." Saracino said. "What I would say to a l'i1:st ynar stu­don!. is to look what you'rn a part. ol' right now. From tho nnw nnt.rancn to tlw campus, 
t.o tlw nnw l>omP, to tlw now prosidont, to Uw now provost, to t.lw nnw doan of' t.lw First Ynar ol' Studins. to tlw nnw l'oothall roach -you'ro part of' an 1\Xdting transition at Notre Damn. It's a groat timn t.o bo at. Not.rn DamP." 
But. IWIHJ with t.lwso changos at Notrn l>anw. the Class ol' 2 0 0 'J is s i m i I a r to p nwi o us rlassns in its involvernont. l·:ighty l'our porCI\nt of students 
Notre Dame, St. Mary's & Holy Cross Students Sugarberry Lane Says, ""Welcome Back"! 

To make your dorm room look, feel and smell great, visit us soon. Bring this ad and 

on aiJ of your purchases, when you select from our in stock regularly priced items. 
Vera Bradley • Yankee Candle Plug-ins Great lines of creams and skin care items Plus many fine room decor pieces. 

Locally owned by Mary Farwig and Ann Watson (SMC '65) 
52313 St. Rte 933 North South Bend, IN 574.272.9608 
*Offer expires 8/31/05 

Mon-Fri lOam to 6pm • A m.iles n 
Fine Italian Dining Italian &American Cuisine 

Francesco was achef at Notre Dame for 25 years Veal, Seafood, Chicken & Pasta Dishes Pizza, Carry Out, Banquet Rooms, Catering Full Bar Available 


574 256-1444 

-~~ 1213 Lincoln Way W. Mishawaka RPJMV~ tugge~,tid (Just West Of The 100 Center) 
wern involved in community service and 72 percent earned at least one varsity letter in high sehool. 
"We look at thn same meas­ures." Saracino said. "The class is a little bit stronger across the board. To achieve t.hosn goals we really arP donying students that aro one­dimensional. When we select a class it's really a thoughtful procnss -we're not just look­ing at one thing." 
Onn quality of this class, however, that disappointed Saracino was diversity, as 21.2 percent of incoming freshmen are of an othn ic minority background -a l"igurP that has stayed relatively constant the past two years. 
"That is a disappointment because we want it to grow; we don't want it to be stag­nant," Saracino said. "When we arc reaching out to got the best studonts that we ean aea­dnm ically and extracurricular­ly and we definitely want to reach out to increase ethnic students -more blaek stu­dents especially. We did not see at all an increase in the number or black students­and that's not acceptable." 
Saracino said that he hopes with more aggressive recruit­ing these talented students will want to eome to Notre Dame. 
The following facts help paint a picture of the elass of 2009: 
+ 
Fifty-one percent were involved in the performing arts in high school 

+ 
Thirty-nine percent were the -captain of at least one sport in high school 

+ 
Forty-six percent were involved in student govern­ment 


+Seven per­cent were either senior class or stu­dent body presidents 
+ 
Seven per­cent are first generation college stu­dents 

+ 
Six per­cent wore Eagle Scouts or won the gold award 



Because of this involvement, during the course of their Saracino said it's difficult to exporiencn at Notre Damn." identify one specific thing that makes the class of 2009 differ-Contact Heather Van Hoegarden ent. at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Tour guide Zhan-Wei Khaw talks to incoming freshmen about various aspects of Notre Dame on Thursday afternoon. 

call john roche and lee stellakis 
• 
senior civil engineers 

• 
expert loft builders 


708.284.6420 
•--------·····--·-·---··-···----·-··-······· ....__, 
"I don't think I can think of 
onn thing that makns tlwm stand out," Saracino 

"!don't think I can think said. "Thny
narh havn

ofone thing that makes thnir own 
them stand out. They storins nach class
each have their own 
has somP

stories -each class has 
things that some things that make makn thnm spncial. 1-:/u~h
them special." 
class has its own charac­Dan Saracino tnr, but I 
director of admissions think thP charact.nr will play out 
page 12 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 20, 2005 



p!!~~~c~!!~~~~~!P~~!!~!)n 

In vour mailbox ND First Year Students On ' August 21 at 6:00p.m. in the Joyce Center 
ND Off-Campus Undergrads On August 22, 10am-3pm, at the OffCampus Fair, Notte Dame Stadium Gate C 
ND Law/MBA/Grad From your college Saint Mary's students FromSMC 

Olltaln vour 1onerv numller on Enrollment S Mondav, Auuust22, 9am-5pm, Stadium Box OHice 
Students \Vill be seated by class. Each student may bring up to SIX applications. You .N.fUST have a lottery nwnber in consecutive numerical order with your group in order to be able to sit with them. 


The starting lottery number will be drawn at 8:30p.m. on Monday, August 22. E-mail and phone announcements will be made following the lottery ofthe number. The sequence number can also be found at sao.nd.edu after 9:00p.m. To reflect the smaller class size, Law/MBA/Grad students will have a separate lottery number. 

Purchase vour season tickets at the Stadium Box OHice 
Guidelines for Ticket Distribution Schedule: If your number is within: 
*400 of the selected number, show up at start time 
*400-800 of the selected lottery number, show up 20 minutes past start time 
*800-1200 of the selected lottery number, show up 40 minutes past start time *"1200-1600 of the selected lottery number, show up 1 hour past start time 

*1600-2000 of the selected lottery number, show up 90 minutes past start time *If you have no seating preference or no lottery number, show up 3 hours after start time 
Check calendar below for stan times bv class 

Bring Ticket Applications and I.D.s. Cash or checks only. Checks must have the student's phone number on them! Each student may bring up to six LD.s. 


page 14 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 20, 2005 
1-.. -.. -.. -..-.. -..-.. -.. -.. -..-.. -..-.. -.. -.. -·.-..-........-..-.. -.. -.. -.. -.. -..-..­



The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs welcomes the Class of 2009. 
What is the Standing Conzmittee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs? 
We members of the Standing Committee are administrators, gay and lesbian students, and 
faculty who are a resource in identifying the ongoing needs of our gay, lesbian, and bisexual THE 5 TAN o 1 N G students. By implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay, lesbian, and CoM M ITTE E o N bisexual issues, the Committee strives to eliminate homophobia and make Notre Dame a place GAYAND LESBIAN that accepts and prizes the uniqueness of all its students. For more infonnation, consult our 
STUDENT NEEDS web page: www.nd.edu/~ 

Current student members: Guillenno Alfaro 5th-year, Architecture Major Joanna Basile Junior, English and Gender Studies Major Jim Fobert Senior, Political Science and German Major 
... Andy Magee Senior, Organ Performance and Computer Science Tiffany Thompson Senior, Accounting Major Chris Vierig Junior, Political Science and Film, Television and Theater Major 

WHO: WHAT: WHEN: WHERE: WHY: 

RECEPTION for Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual First-Year Students Gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning first-year students at Notre Dame 
Drop-in Reception Monday, August 22rd, 1:30-3:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse (Jd Floor Lounge) Come meet student members of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student 
Needs and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame campus. 
For more information, please visit our web site: www.nd.edu/~glsn. Check under "Current Events." 
L.·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··­
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT

Saturday, August 20, 2005 page 15 
THE OBSERVER 
r.o. Box 779. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining H;~ll, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

Assr. MANAGING EDITORt Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
AOVFJmSING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
All 0FSIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.J@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sl><ms.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 6.31-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper publi,hed in print and online by the students of tbe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial coment, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either i11.rinuion. The Observer reserves the right to relttse advertisements based on coment. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Un.~ignnl editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the EJitor in Chief. Managing Editor, Ao;.sistam Managing Editors and deparrmem edirors. 
Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of tht• authors and not necessarily those ofThe ()bserver. 
Vkwpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions thrnugh letters is encouraged. !.etters to the EJitor must be signed and must include comact information. 
Qumions rrgt~rding Obsm'erpolicies should be dirmd to F.ditor in C'lliifCiaire Heininga 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

,.hr (.ll'!etVcr cusrs lljC)t) 2··10001 i, puhl••hcll f\1onJ.ay lluough Friday o:xcepr during n.unAml vac.uio•IIJ~rtotl• A •ull'M:raJUIUII w I he Obtcrvcr is$100 fvr our Jc:ldcmk 
yur.$'\'\furHitt!WIIlOICI, 
I he ~ li"'Crvcr 11 pultliAhctl at NlSI'MASTJ::R 
02" ~n~uh llu•ing Ho~ll \rml addrCJ$. ClltRCfltliiiiO: 
Nuur lJ.nuc. IN 4h'556-017Q ·nu:Ob.crvcr 
l'rruxli~;al p(,,,a~r p.1i.l o~t Nurre D.uur l~(l BoJ; 779 
Jill! ~lMIUiollo,tJm.aiJJUt( 11tl1Cf~ H24 5(lmh Dining Hnll 
N~,~~ [l,1mc, IN 4fi'i%-0779 

I"he (llw:-rver 1.1 11 mcmhcr nf rhc Aw""1111cd Pns,~. All tcpwduo.:rivn ri~hr5 .uc rc~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Ileather Van Mike Gilloon Jloegarden Chris Khorey Kate Antonacci Kevin Brennan Katie Perry Tom Dorwart 
Karen Langely Matt Puglisi Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Brauweiler Hama Gottumukkala Graphies Illustrator Graham Ebetsch Beth Wernet 

Maturity will come, but it can wait 
The first day I arrived on Notre Dame's campus my freshman year, I did my best to do things differently. 
Standing in front of the Main Building, I looked at the intimidating 
steps that led to the main entrance and remembered what countless class­mates and upper­classmen had already told me: undergraduates who walk up those steps risk not grad­

uating. Pat Leonard It's a silly legend, I told myself. A stu­pid superstition. Managing So, with the spirit Editor of Rocky in my Philadelphia-born blood. I walked to a plateau I had never imagined would be in reach. I turned and there I was, looking at God Quad, with Washington Hall and LaFortune Student Center on my left, the Basilica and Sorin Hall to my right. There were no fist pumps, and there was no "Eye of the Tiger" song playing in the background, just a quiet confi­dence that no one could stop me from doing anything. And that's when it hit me. I shouldn't have done it. Or should I have? The overriding theme at that point in my life was its inconsistency. I'd make decisions, then regret them. Make oth­ers -for different reasons -and be content. That's how it is when you're a fresh­man, and by the time you get to senior year, those regrets disappear. 
people you'll love. 
You'll take classes that you'll wish you'd never signod up for, and you'll have class with teachers who will become good friends. 
And all it means is that you're grow­ing up, nothing more or less. · Be confident and mature, but also be whimsical and carefree. 
I have friends who are pre-med majors. I have friends who accidental­ly have lit cookies on fire in the microwave. 
I have friends who have graduated in three years. I have friends who have taken a semester off-involuntarily. 
There is no right way to do things, only the responsibility to be loyal and fair to yourself and your friends as you go. 
The way you perceive this school, its people, its strengths and its weakness­es will have everything to do with what you get out of Notre Dame, out of college and out of four of the most formative years of your life. 
But begin by not trying to fit in or 
being what someone else thinks is best. Be what you are and do not change for any­one but yourself. Unconseiously, you will mature because the constructs, the people and the classes at this University are among the finest and 

most supportive in the finest and most supportive actually came down to country. it. he could. 
in the country. 
There are aspects of There is no right way to do unique not to have a Notre Dame that will things, only the drastic effect on you. excite you, places that There is a whole
responsibility to be loyal 
will intimidate you, world outside of rules you' II disagree and.fair to yourselfand Notre Dame, and you 
with (trust me) and your friends as you go. must see this 

Be what you are and do didn't know mueh. 
not change for anyone but My friend eut mn off mid-snntnnco.
yourself Unconsciously, 
"Stop talking about

you will mature because 
freshman yoar or I'm the construc~s. the people gonna ery," he said. Of eourse he didn't
and the classes at this 
mean hn 'd literally

University are among the 
ery, but I knew if it 
You must recognize immediately that Notre Dame is not an accurate repre­sentation of the outside world. In con­trast with the most bustling cities in the United States, crime remains low on campus, someone else cooks your meals and guys can't have girls in their rooms past 12 a.m. on week­nights. And vice versa. 
Your life, over the course of the next few days and for the rest of your life, is going to change because you came here. And it will change for the better. 
Notre Dame is too powerful and too 
University for what it 
is -an institution that alters the mundane present day to gear its graduates towards a rich future. 
This weekend, my brother becomes the second person in my family to grace tho Notre Dame campus. For the first time since my senior year in high school, I'll be enrolled at the same school as my only sibling. 
So what will I tell him as the more experienced older brother'? Wl~ll. for one, I'll tell him how to get to Windsor. 

But I'll also tell him I don't want to hear any lip about my being lucky to live off-campus, being 21 years old, having a car, having a job and owning 40-yard line tickets at Notre Dame Stadium (fingers crossed). 
Hegardless of whether he is indiffer­ent or curious about life as a senior, · though, I will constantly wonder what it would be like to have four more years. 
A few nights ago at a friend's houso, I was reminiscing about our first year 
in Dillon llall, when 
we were new and we 
And I knew I could, 

too, because that's how excited we were then -and that's how much we miss it now. 
Now go walk up those steps. 
Pat Leonard is an American studies major with a. minor in journalism, ethics and democracy. lie hails from Philadelphia, Pa.. where the cheese steak is king, fried food is good for you and everyone's idea of Utopia is a weekend at the Jersey Shore. Struggling from a severe case of "LosingthreeNFCChampionshipsinarow thengettingtothe.'-iuper/Jowlandlosinga gain," Pat's only wish for the rest of his life is for Donovan McNabb to hold the Lombardi Trophy and not a can of Campbell's Chunky .'ioup. 
!1. /Jegetarian for the first 18 years (l his life, Pat quietly /Jecame carnivo­rous, iffor no other reason than he had to answer ",','orry. I've never had one" to the question "/low good are your cheesesteaks?" 
Now, he says the answer is "good enough to not call them Philly Steak & Cheese like the dining hall. " 
Contact Pat l,eonard at pleonard@nd. edu 
The lJiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The 0/Jserver. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 16 Saturday, August 20, 2005 
Campus leaders welcome Class of 2009 
Dear Class of 2009, 
Welcome to Notre.Dame! 

On behalf of the whole Notre Dame community, it is my great pleasure to wel­come you and express our excitement that you are here to begin your under­graduate years. 

We hope that your time here will be of intellectual stimula­tion, fruitful inquiry and growth in knowledge and under­standing. You will, no doubt, form lifelong friendships, and also, we hope, grow in faith. 
May you soon come to feel at home on campus, and to love this place, as do so many graduates of past years. I hope to meet you personally in the coming years. 
In Notre Dame, Reverend John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. 

Jenkins 
President University of Notre Dame August 19, 2005 

I would like to extend to you a warm welcome on behalf of all of us who work in the Division of Student Affairs the Offices of Alcohol and Drug Education, Campus Ministry, the Career Center, Counseling Center, Health Services. International Student Services and Activities, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, the Office of Residence Life and Housing, Security, Student Activities and the staffs of your residence halls. 
Although we provide a variety of services, we share a common desire to do everything we can to help facilitate your intellectual, spiritual and personal growth. 
We extend a special welcome to our new students, first-year students, transfer students and new graduate and profes­sional students. We welcome back the sophomores, juniors and seniors, as well as the returning graduate and pro­fessional students. .,. 
As a community, we draw our strength from the unique and diverse gifts offered by each of you. We hope that all of you, both those who are new and those who are returning, will be able to achieve the goals you set for yourselves this year. 
I hope that I will have the opportunity to come to know as many of you as possible in the months ahead. 
Until I am able to greet you in person, please know that you have my very best wishes for a year filled with all God's blessings. 
Father Mark Poorman Vice President for Srudent Affairs University of Notre Dame August 19,2005 

On behalf of the University of Notre Dame du Lac student body, we want to welcome you to this great institution. As we are sure you know, your acceptance is no small accomplishment, and you should be proud of yourself. We are already a stronger family because of your decision to beeome a member of our community. 
These first few days as a Notre Dame student will be both exciting and overwhelming. In the chaos of moving in, orientation activities and saying goodbye to your parents, we encourage you to take a moment to appreciate the journey you are about to embark upon. 
This weekend is the first step. Get to know your roommates. Participate in every Frosh-0 activity. Be introduced to the vibrant faith life at the Orientation Mass. Notre Dame is about thinking in new ways, con­quering new obstacles and just hanging out with friends. We encourage you to take part in this spirit and not just S<:e, but feel what this University is all about. 
Once you establish yourself on campus, we encourage you to get involved. Break out of the Notre Dame bubble and get involved in the South Bend community through the Center for Social Concerns. Reflect on your years ahead at the Campus Ministry Freshman Retreat. Relive your glory days as a high school athlete on one of the many interhall athletic teams. 
Notre Dame has a rich tradition of academics, athletics, faith and community. We hope you are able to take advantage of the many opportunities to grow in these areas over the next four years. 
Many challenges lie ahead in this journey; be sure to have fun along the way. Your friends, professors and classmates will be an essential part of your college experience, reflecting the most remarkable aspect of Notre Dame: Her people. 
Treasure your time here, whether cramming for an 8 a.m. final or ordering pizza at three in the morning with friends. 
Feel free to stop by the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune to talk about student life or simply to introduce yourself. We look for­ward to meeting you. 
Best of luck and God bless. 
In Notre Dame, 
Dave Baron Nmre Dame srudent body president Lizzi Shappell Notre Dame srudent body vice president August 19, 2005 



On behalf ofthe faculty and staff at Saint Mary's College, I extend a warm welcome to the class of 2009 and to our transfer students. As a graduate of Saint Mary's and now itc;; 11th president, I care deeply about this special place and about you, our stu­dents. By choosing Saint Mary's you are following in the footsteps of generations of remarkable women before you, and like them, your distinct talents will leave your 
mark on the college. 

At Saint Mary's College we will challenge you. We will help you learn the extent of your capabilities and to use them well. I urge you to stretch and to take advantage of the many opportunities open to you here. With a 161-year-old tradition of educating women to make a difference in the world, we provide an excellent education in the context of developing the whole person. 
As a Catholic college, we cherish intellectual pursuits because they enrich our understanding of God and God's creation, which 

in turn helps us build and sustain more just and equitable eom-Mooney munities. We hope that one result of your Saint Mary's education is that you develop a sense of obligation to the common good and that your life and work will reflect that understanding. 
I welcome you to Saint Mary's and the greater educational community to which we belong. I hope our time here will be rich with possibilities. 
Carol Ann Mooney President Saint Mary's College August 19, 2005 
Welcome to Saint Mary's College! We are all so pleased that you made the choice to attend Saint Mary's and know that you will indeed lind your home away from home with us. This next step in your intellectual growth and personal development will provide the foundation for you as you establish learning habits that will last a lifetime. You will be ehallenged to be a woman of distinction. That distinction will have a different meaning for each of you. You will find your leadership skills sharpened every day through your interaction with faculty, stafr, administrators and your peers. The depth and breadth ofyour academic journey will strengthen you to be a woman of vision ready to meet the challenges of tomorrow's world today. As a Catholic college we honor and respect the journey each of us makes as we find God's grace in our lives. There are so many activities, clubs, organizations and ath-· 
letic events to attend. You will have no problem fmd­ing ways to exercise your Belles school spirit on campus, and you will have the opportunity to join 
your colleagues at the University of Notre Dame and Holy Cross College for their activities, too. Before you know it you will be ordering pizza with new friends, studying hard, becoming a member 
of a club, studying hard, going to a volleyball, soc­cer, or football game. (Did I mention studying hard?) .I encourage you to take a walk around campus sometime soon and just reflect on the knowledge that thousands of women have walked these same paths and halls before you. They have become leaders in their careers, their conununi­
ties, their churches and in the world. They are women of faith who, like you, came here to develop the talents God had given them so that they could 
make a difference in the world. You will benefit from their legacy and experience and you will add to the legacy that is Saint Mary's College. 
Linda TliDID Vice President for Srudenr Affi..irs Saint Mary's College August 19, 2005 
On behalfofthe student body, it is our pleasure towel­come you to the Saint Mary's family. For more than 160 years, 
Saint Mary's has been a community that fosters intellectual and spiritual growth. Throughout its history, Saint Mary's has been blessed with young 
women who are committed to the college and their own education, as well as a faculty that is dedicated to each woman's education and person­al growth as a student and an individual. You are now part ofthis amazing community. 
There are many venues in which you may become involved in campus life including student government, clubs and organizations, class, campus ministry and volunteer work. Take advantage ofActivities Night and other events around campus to help familiarize yourself with all that the college has to offer. Becoming involved at Saint Mary's will affect you in ways you may never have imagined. You will meet new people, learn new things about yourself, discover new talents, and create many exciting oppor­tunities for yourself, both at Saint Mary's and beyond. Remember, this is not only the beginning of your four years iii college, but rather it is the beginning ofyour lifetime as a Saint Mary's woman. 
Again, we welcome you, the newest Belles of Saint Mary's! You are joining a rich tra­dition of amazing women who have called Saint Mary's home. We are confident that you will love Saint Mary's as much as we do. Ifthere is anything we can do to ease your transition to college, do not hesitate to contact us. We look forward to having the honor of meeting and getting to know all of you! 
Kellye Mitros Saint Mary's srudent body president Susan Mcllduff Saint Mary's student body vice president August 19, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT

Saturday, August 20, 2005 page 17 


It keeps getting better 

Finally. quiet fall morning and know in my heart 
You did the work, took the tests. filled that I'm home, not just at sehool. out the application, received your accept­For the most part, I've been able to ance. fill!~d out all the rest of the paper­suceeed at those goals. You see, there's a work and you've finally arrived at col­reason I counted the days untiL I could lege. come back here, and it's not because I'm 
But there was more excited to have homework. It's because to it than that, wasn't for the past three years, that little voice there? More than just in my head hasn't let me forget that it's tests and pap11rwork'! not all about good grades, the Dean's Jist Bn<~ausn this isn't just or prospective jobs and graduate any school -this is sehools. Notrn Damn. Now, I know that orientation weekend 
If you're anything is just full of people who want to offer likn nw, you've benn their advice, which invariably turns out planning on attl~nding to be the same advice someone offered this partieular univer­you an hour ago. (In fact, I think I count­sity sincn you could nd how many people told me to "make form coherent friends with professors," during my ori­thoughts, so you did entation, and it was upwards of 10.) For what you ne11ded to do that reason, I didn't want to stuff this col­to rnakn it happen. umn with platitudes about "making every Tlwre wern extracurricular activities, moment count," "taking time to smell the volunteer positions and hours of study­rosns," or (God forbid) "getting to know ing that wnnt into <Tealing that perfect your professors." · application. But then I realized that one thing is 
With all that work. it seems amazing worth hearing hundreds of times, even if that wn <wen had time to 1mjoy high you don't realize it yet: college is more school, ld alone make friends. But ever than school. So don't lose that voice of present during the past four years was reason that will remind you that it's not that little voice in the back of your head the classes you'll recall 20 years from that said, "It's not all about getting good now, it's the people and the feeling of grades and doing everything right. family. You've got to enjoy what you have while There is one thing wrong with college, it's h1~re, too." And so, somehow we man­though: it keeps getting better. And that's aged to make thousands of those pre­going to make it very hard to leave come dous high school memories we'll never May. But I should have expected that, forget with people we'll always remem­right? After all, this isn't just any school ber -even if we lose touch -while still -it's Notre Dame. doing all that other "important" stuff. Finally. 
Don't lose that voice. 
A big part of the shock of coming to Maureen Reynolds is a senior account­Notrn Dame was realizing that at some ing and political science major from out­point, I should probably have a plan. You side Chicago who plans on attending law know: a major, a possible job or a pur­school after graduating in May, provided pose in life, perhaps? Having only four she survives the LSAT. She feels lucky to years to figure out what I want to do with attend Notre Dame with her sister and the mst of my life (at least, that's how it four (yes, four) cousins. When she's not seems sometimes) can get pretty daunt­spending her nights in The Observer's ing. It's hard to remember that I'm not basement office, she enjoys ordering only hen1 for a diploma-I want the make-your-own T-shirts with her 4B girls. whole experience. who all plan on making their senior year 
I want to learn the legends and tradi­the best yet. Contact her at tions that make this school famous. I mreynold@nd. edu want to have friends with whom I ean The views expressed in this column are stay up all night and share everything. I those ofthe author and not necessarily want to walk across campus on a sunny, those ofThe Observer. 


You're a Belle now, too 
You're here. You're in college. I'll bet the time it's not all it's eraeked up to be you can't believe it's a<:tually happening. -especially when you wake up to an I remember I didn't and actually, I still incredible hangover or sp<~nd all night don't believe it and I'm defmitely in with your new fri1md .John and aren't denial that my friends and I are seniors. even brnaking parintals. You don't have 
I'd love to be in to drink to be "cool." I'm surn many of your shoes knowing you vinw college as an opportunity to what I know now reinvnnt yourslllf. While you'rn right, it about college and doesn't mean you have to beconw a how to make the completely dimm111t person. You am experience the most who you are for a rnason and you can't fulfilling and excit­l(Jrgnt that. So if you eame to colln!{l1 ing time of my life. saying that you're not going to drink, I'm not an expert, stick to your guns. Hmnembnr what is but I'd like to think I important to you and keep your privri­could ofl'er a little tins straight. advice. There are people on campus to help 
Coming to Saint you along the way in any endeavor. Mary's is the best Hight from the start. Saint Mary's sets decision you've ever you up with uppnrdasswomen to help made in your life. l your transition: your HA'i and was so nervous about attending an Orientation Counselors. But you <~an "all-girls' school," or as I've noticnd approaeh any woman on this earn pus myself saying all the time now. an all­and I'd gunss thny'd bn morn than will­women's college. Saint Mary's is 700 ing to talk. I know J'd love to. miles from my home and I didn't know Usn Notre Damn to your advantagn. anyone else when I made my decision The University olli1rs dillernnt dassns to attend. I had no idea what going to a and activities and you should takn single-sex school would be like and I advantage of it. Eat in the dining hall at had second thoughts constantly about least once on a football Friday and soak my choice. However, as I've come to it up. It doesn't get much bettor than a learn during these past three years, Notre Dame home football weekend. Saint Mary's has the best students in But most of all, bn proud that you're a the whole world and I have the best Saint Mary's Bnlle. Don't worry what friends in the whole entire world -no, anyone says about your choke to go to seriously, I do. Every Saint Mary's school here. It's a wonderful and beauti­woman has a different gift or talent to ful place and I'm so glad I took a chance offer to the school -well, I'm still fig­and spent my college career here. uring out mine -and I encourage you to seek out as many as possible. I am Sarah Vabulas is a senior communica­who I am now because of Saint Mary's. tion stud{es major from Atlanta who, I have confidence in myself and I have despite spending the summer in true friends that I will love and treas­Washington, D.C. interning at The ure forever. Washington Times, still has no idea 
One of the great things about Saint what she wants to do when she gradu­Mary's is that you don't have to go out to ates in May. She has the best boyfriend, have fun. Going to parties and to the roommates andfriends, even ifthey bars can be a great time, but it's not make fun ofher for working so hard at necessary. I had planned on going out to The Observer. She can't waitfor the Corby's on Wednesday night, but I opted Navy vs. Notre Dame game since it'll be to hang out with one of my best friends the 42nd time the Irish pummel the and my roommate in Opus instead. I Naval Academy, the alma mater ofher had so much more fun laughing and incredibly cute Naval officer boyfriend. telling stories about our summers. Contact her at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu These are the moments I'll remember The views expressed in this column forever. are those ofthe author and not neces­
Don't feel pressured to drink. Most of sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Five ways to make Notre D~me your own 
I came to Notre Dame for one reac;on and one reason only -intramural sport.'>. 
I know it sounds crazy, but it is 100 pereent true. 
Thrno years, countless teams and four intramural cham­
pionships latnr, I would have eome to Notre Dame for 1,000 othnr reasons. 
The Grotto, Touchdown Jesus, Stondwnge, the Dome, Bookstore B<L'>ketball, l'ull-contaet intorhall foot­ball, Notm Damn fi)()tball. the B<L'>iliea. And now, the Gugliolmino Athletics Facility, the DeBartolo Performing Art.<> C!mter. tho Jordan Science building. 
Notre Dame is full of symbols of tradi­tion, prnstige and lore. But we all know that. and so do you. 
Maybe that's why you decided to come here. Or maybe it was the aca­demies. Maybn you were like me and it W<L'> intramurals. Or maybe it wa'i like many and it W<L'> Notre Dame football. 
But regardless of why you are here, you will want rea­sons to stay horn. Notre Dame ha<> to become special-but not like the Dome or the Ba<>iliea is special. It ha<> to be spe­dal to you. So here are live ways to make Notre Dame your Notre Dame. 
+ Got involved. 
I know-it's a dkhe. But it's true, getting involved early is important. If you like playing Fric;bee, then join the lJitimatn Club. If building homes is your thing, then join llabitat for Humanity. If you like to talk, then get your own radio show. ffyou like math then join the mathletes. Whatever it is that you are passionate about, there is some-

Heather Van Hoegarden 
Assistant Managing Editor 
thing for you to do -find it. 
+ Become a Weasel, a Pyro, a Dawg, a Rambler, etc. 
I know we're the Fighting Iri<>h, not the Purple Weasels or the Angry Mob. It doesn't matter. Dorm identity is huge at Notre Dame. Everything from Sunday night Mass to inter­hall sports to pep rallies is done with your dorm. When you meet other NO students, the frrst question is "Where do you live?" And the answer is not, "A suburb of Chicago." So embrace your mascot, your colors (even if they are ugly), your hallmates-you wiiJ develop a bond like no other. 
+Take advantage of the 25 "other" varsity sports. 
Last fall, the women's soccer team won the national championship last season on penalty kicks and returns almost all of it.c; key players. And there is the national cham­pionship fencing team-two titles in three years. There is also the nationally-ranked women's basketball team, the outstanding men's soccer team, the baseball team, the soft­ball team. Every team at Notre Dame is successful. Take advantage of your student 10-most games are free. 
+Work hard in class, but not too hard, and get to know those giving you the grades. 
Good grades are important but a well-rounded college experience is the most important. A 3.7 GPA is just as good as a 4.0 ifyou are involved. Just ask any employer-they want you to be well-rounded. Get to know your professors. No, really-do it. They are unbelievable people and most want you to succeed more than anything else. Talk to them after class, during office hours, during class. Just take advantage ofthe opportunity. 
+Join the family -the Notre Dame family. 
The mi{Jute you step on campus, into your dorm, into Notre Dame Stadium, you become one of "us" -anyone who has gone to Notre Dame or still goes there. It's a true family like nothing el<>e. So be outgoing. Talk to kids in your dorm, alumni, faculty. When you see someone with a Notre Dame ring, ask him where he lived. Maybe he was a Dawg like you, and one day he will give you a job. That's how the family works -you both went to Notre Dame and that's good enough for many. Once you step on campus, there am countless people around the country who will help you out as much a<> they can. 

Find them. 

Maybe everything I just wrote you've already hoard. And ifthat's true, great; you're on your way to having a great time at Notre Dame. 
But remember this: Notre Dame is a special place -the academics, athletics, tradition are incredible. But you have the unique opportunity to make it more than that. Make Notre Dame your Notre Dame. Notre Dame means some­thing different to everyone here, inducting you. 
Just like how after three years Notre Dame now means so much more to me than intramural sporl'>. 
Heather Van Hoegarden is a senior accounting major with a minor in journalism, ethics and democracy who haiL'> from outside Chicago and whose main goal this year is to win as many intramural championships as possible. She plays volleyball, ba.<;ketball, football and softball for Pasquerilla West as well as on numerous co-ree teams. Besides that, she loves the campus, the fight song and the alumni network. After graduation she ha.'> no idea where she will end up but is not worried as long as there is a Notre Dame Alumni Club that participates in an athletic league. Contact her at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 18 Saturday, August 20, 2005 
Downtown :.·. South Bend 
N 


1. 
Colonial Pancake House Rising early for breakfast can be a chore, especially on weekends, but the Colonial Pancake House makes it worth the effort. Featuring generous portions and afford­able entrees, this delectable little establishment is the perfect place for a pre-game breakfast or brunch the following day with family and friends. 

2. 
Fiddler's Hearth Nothing says Irish better than a meal at Fiddler's Hearth, a family-friendly restaurant devoted to Celtic food, fun and atmosphere. Constructed to look like an actual Irish pub, Fiddler's Hearth offers live Celtic music and dancing as weekend staples. Highland bagpipes usher in the weekend at 5:45 pm each Friday. 

3. 
Nick's Patio Nick's Patio doubles as a casual Greek dining experience and a tasty breakfast joint. Well-priced entrees are available in a relaxed atmosphere that's open 24 hours a day. Perfect for fulfilling a late night munchie craving when the only other option is fast food. 

4. 
Macri's 



Pasta and sandwiches make up a sizable chunk of the menu at Macri's, a laid-back Italian restaurant. The food tops off a festive spot to enjoy a meal while watching a basketball game. The giant mozzarella sticks are a must. 
5. 
Casa Del Rio Casa Del Rio's slogan promises "a real taste of Mexico" and delivers on its word. There's no better place for a quick Mexican meal garnished with enchiladas or fajitas. Keep Tuesdays circled on the weekly calendar to enjoy dollar taco nights. 

6. 
Rocco's Rocco's is a perennial favorite for enjoying a slice of pizza and soaking in Notre Dame's rich traditions. The autographed pictures of past coaches and famous visitors adorning the walls, the large, comfortable booths and the delicious smells combine to create a powerful slice of pizza-fueled euphoria. 

7. 
Carrabba's Grape Road is a feasting ground for hungry families, with dozens of restaurants to choose from. But Carrabba's is a popular, recognizable choice for a chain restaurant that freshmen recognize from back home. A diverse menu allows visitors to enjoy anything from individual-sized pizzas to soups, salads and plenty of pasta entrees. 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Saturday, August 20, 2005 
P•gel9 
A guide to life in and out of the Notre Dame bubble 

H. Univt~rsity Park Mall There's nothing like hanging around a mall all day to bring back pleasant memories of high school, and University Park Mall on Grape Road has more than enough venues to spend a weekend afternoon easually shopping or hanging out with friends. With a hand­ful of department stores, more than 100 specialty stores and a generously sized food court, University Park is just a 10-minute drive from campus. 
9. 
College Football Hall of Fume With students and fans frenzied for the upcoming season, the College Football Hall of Fame ofl'ers a window to the illustrious Notre Dame teams of the past and the University's place in college football history. Extended hours on football weekends help visitors sift through the many venues inside the Hall, including exhibits, a replica locker room and a practice field to pit your gridiron skills against family members'. 

10. 
Cinemark Movies 14 I 11. Kerasotcs 16 Two loeal movie theatres anchor the South Bend film scene, offering one of the most pop­ular, inexpensive diversions for college students: a ni·ght at the movies. Movies 14, locat­ed on Grape Hoad, is the closer of the two theatres to campus, but Kerasotes, located on West Chippewa Avenue, offers more smaller budget, independent pictures that film buffs crave, such as "Million Dollar Baby" and "Hotel Rwanda," leading up to Oscar season. 


Road Trips: 
12. Chicago The country's third-largest city-and all its opportunities for adventure-is just 90 miles west of South Bend. An hour and a half will take you to the Miracle Mile, a shop­per's nirvana; Wrigleyville, home of Chicago's beloved Cubs; Lake Shore Drive, a row of museums to saturate inquiring minds, and any number of regular concerts. 
H. Cedar Point Nothing eases the tension of a stress-filled week better than a few hours spent flying along Cedar Point's multitude of rollercoasters (16 if you're keeping count). If high speed, gravity-defying thrill rides aren't your cup of tea, there's still plenty to choose from among the 70 different amusement rides. Take a football with you and relive one-time nmployee Knute Hockne's invention of the forward pass, which he developed with team­mate Gus Dorais at the park's beach along Lake Erie. 
14. Michigan Dunes It may not be Key West or Miami Beach, but students can find plenty of fun in the sun at the Michigan Dunes. Camping and beach football are two popular attractions, along with tho sheor thrill of loaping off giant sand dunes. With a little imagination, walks along the shores of vast Lake Michigan ean double as ocean view strolls. 
Transportation: 
On the otT chance a friendly upperclassman can't provide a ride, there are several trans­portation options to get around town. Cabs usually hover around Main Circle, especially on weekends. Yellow Cab (57 4-233-9333) and A-B-C Cab (57 4-233-4000) are two of the cheapest, most reliable transportation options. Transpo buses are great for getting to the mall and around South Bend for low fares. 
Traditions 101: 
According to campus lore, undergraduate students are not supposed to use the stairs on the front of the Main Building or they will not graduate. 
Tradition tells us that if you walk around both lakes holding hands with a person of the oppo..,itn sex, the two of you will get married. 
The gho,··t of George "The Gipper" Gipp supposedly haunts Washington Hall. He allegedly eaught pneumonia sleeping outside of the building when he was locked out of his dorm. 
Football Weekends: Pep Rally Students, alumni, parents and subway alumni gather in anticipation of the upcoming game on Fridays at 6 p.m. in the Joyce Center. The pep rallies usually consist of cheers, skits, and spoeches by players, coaches and famous visitors (past guests include Hank Aaron, Carson Daly and Dick Vitale). It's also an opportunity for dorms to gather en masse, sport their dorm colors, cheer and fuel the fire of dorm rivalries. 
Drummer's Cirde The drummers of the Band of the Fighting Irish gather on the steps of the Main Building on Fridays at midnight, porforming for fans and building excitement for Saturday's 
game. 
Pregame Traditions Saturday morning pregame traditions are punctuated by watching the band march around campus, starting on the steps of Bond Hall and ending at the Stadium, and hear­ing its members perform traditional Notre Dame music pieces. The football team and coaehes can be sighted on their customary walk from the Basilica to the stadium prior to the game. 
Information compiled by RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA and MOLLY GRIFfiN 
ng Around Campus: 

Cafe de Grasta Cafe de Grasta, located on the first floor of Grace Hall, is off the beaten path for anyone who doesn't live on Mod Quad, but it is worth the walk. It has a by-weight salad bar, coffee, wraps, stir-fry and a wide selection of drinks. Open Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
The Irish Cafe The Irish Cafe is located in the Notre Dame Law School, but it isn't just for law students. Baked goods, salads, sandwiches, soups and drinks are just some of the food offered. Open Monday through Friday, 7:30a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Waddicks Waddicks, located on the first floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall, is a great place to study and grab something to eat. A wide selection of baked goods, food and drinks are offered, but the coffee and espresso drinks are definitely worth the stop. Open Monday through Friday, 7 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 

Decio Faculty Hall Students don't usually spend too mueh time in Decio (it houses fae­ulty offices), but if you are visiting a professor, it's a great plaee to get drinks, baked goods and coffee or to try the daily special. Open Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Cafe Poche Few students who aren't architecture majors venture into Bond Hall, but Cafe Poche, located on the first floor, might just lure some in. It offers deli sandwiches, soups, baked goods, drinks and coffee. Open Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Cafe Commons If y·ou're in the College of Business, Cafe Commons is a great place to get food like soup, salad, sandwiches, fruit, coffee and a wide array of drinks. Open Monday through Friday, 7:30a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Greenfields Greenfields is probably one of the best culinary discoveries that you can make on campus. Located in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, it offers global cuisine for between five and eight dolla.rs a dish. Look for entrees like Portobello Mushroom Sofirito, Shanghi Salad, Plantation Salmon and Shrimp Stir-Fry, and also check out the breakfast menu. Open Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 2:30p.m. 
Reekers Reekers is the ultimate college eatery. It's open 24 hours a day, seven days a week and serves classic college food favorites. Try the wood-fried pizzas, smoothies, ice cream, fries, sandwiches and cof­fee. 
Legends Legends is an on-campus multi-tasker. It hosts concerts, has a pub with an extensive beer and wine list for those over 21 and also fea­tures a full service restaurant. Start with an appetizer like Domer wings and then select from a menu that includes salads, steak, chicken, burgers, sandwiches and desserts. Open Monday through Thursday, 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m., 4 to 9 p.m.; Friday 11::{0 a.m. to 2 p.m., 4 p.m. 12 a.m.; Saturday 11:30 a.m. to 12 a.m. Closed Sundays. 
Entertainment Around Campus: 

Legends Legends periodically hosts concerts, which range from campus bands to big name acts like past performers Gavin DeGraw, the Walkmen and Virginia Coalition. 
The DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts The PAC offers a wide range of concerts, plays, films and other per­formances. Upcoming events include screenings of "Casablanca," a stage performance by the group Toxic Audio and a free outdoor screening of "The Lord of the Rings: Return of the King." Current information about upcoming events can be found at the PAC Web site: http://performingarts.nd.edu/ 
WVFI WVFI is a student-run radio station that also features student DJs. Current schedules can be found on its Web site: http://www.nd.edu/-wvfJ/ 
.---------------------~-------­
page 20 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Saturday, August 20, 2005 

Weis 
continued from page 36 
many passes that are gonna be completed." 
The Irish are working on numerous blitz pack­ages, experi­menting a version of defensive coordinator Rick Minter's 3-4 at South Carolina to protect the pass first. 
If a three­
"!just want the end spot to be more consistent. Sometimes I see flashes and then other times they take a step back." 
Jappy Oliver Irish defensive line coach 
group. 
In addi­tion, the Irish have lost a few prospective contributors to transfers, departure or position change. 
Defensive back Freddie Parish trans­ferred to 


man front can contain draws and run plays, Notre Dame can use a larger linebacker core to contain pass coverage, alter blitz schemes and create more of the natural double teams that Zbikowski observed. 
"You look at some of the film of South Carolina ... it looks like the blitzes and the pressures are working really well," defensive tackle Trevor Laws said. 
Last season, regardless of offensive production, Notre Dame's run defense stayed consistent and gave up only 88 yards rushing per game. But the secondary -and more generally, the pass defense -lacked not only the ability to stop an air attack. It lacked the ability to deter teams who could -Southern Cal, Purdue, Pitt -throw almost every down. 
Linebacker Brandon Hoyte, defensive tackle Derek Landri and Zbikowski are the only returning starters from that 
Stephen F. Austin University, a Division I-AA program, and was added to their roster Wednesday 
"That's what we need­
a fte rn o on. In the first Defensive ed. A coach like that, spring practice lineman open to the
[who's] real thorough." 
Jabbie moved from defen­sive back to running back. And the defen­sive ends are experiencing what defensive line coach Jappy Oliver called "growing pains" after Wednesday's practice. 
"I just want the end spot to be more consistent," he said, referring also to the depth of the position. "Sometimes I see flashes and then other times they take a step back, and I just want consistency at a lot of the other ends." 
Victor Abiamiri leads the defensive ends with 37 career tackles after returning from a spring leg injury, but the coaches hope Abiamiri and others will create a disruptive pass rush to help the pass defense. 
Zbikowski said all of the defensive backs were making progress but specified Ambrose Wooden, strong safety Chinedum Ndukwe and freshman David Bruton as players that were having strong fall camps. 
Zbikowski also said defen­sive backs coach Bill Lewis' 
attention to 
detail has bene­
fited the group. 
Brandon Nicolas left the team Tom Zbikowski 
Thursday. Irish free safety,Junior 
speaking on Bill Lewis 
pedaling sweat. 
media in Notre Dame Stadium, Lewis could be seen stopping standard drills to demonstrate technique him­self back and breaking a 
"That's what we needed, a coach like that, [who's] real thorough," Zbikowski said. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 

Six players leave tea111 before season starts 
The "Gug" opens; Cutcliffe resigns due to poor health 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

Two weeks away from the Sept. 3 opener at Pittsburgh, the Irish have lost six players who have transferred or are not coming back next season. 
Another, senior Travis Leitko, told the South Bend Tribune for an Aug. 17 article that he expects to be back at Notre Dame in the summer of 2006 due to "academic reasons." 
Offensive lineman John Kadous announced in June that he plans to transfer to the University of Arizona. Kadous, who. hails from Tuscon, Ariz., did not see any playing time last season as a freshman. 
Wide receiver Chris Vaughn transferred to Louisville after being suspended for the fall semester at Notre Dame. 
Vaughn, who played on spe­cial teams last season as a true freshman, will have three sea­sons of eligibility left after he sits out the 2005 season due to NCAA transfer rules. 
Sophomore offensive lineman Chauncey Incarnato left the team earlier this month, leav­ing the Irish with a thin depth chart at offensive line. 
Incarnato did not see action last season as a true freshman. 
Also leaving earlier this month was junior defensive. back Freddie Parish, who transferred to Steven F. Austin, a Division I-AA school. 
Most recently, sophomore defensive lineman Brandon Nicolas left the team Thursday morning, Weis announced through a press release. 
Last spring, Weis announced Wednesday that sophomore cornerback Tregg Duerson was no longer with the team for "personal reasons." 
Duerson, who did not see action last season, is not back with the Irish this fall. Notes: 
+The Gugliemino Family Athletics Center, which houses new football offices, locker rooms and a weight room, opened earlier this month. 
"It's a big plus for the whole athletic department," Weis said at the Aug. 8 media day. "I think it will be a big plus for the school. I think going from facilities that I believe were antiquated to now right at the top with everybody with the way Notre Dame should be and what they stand for, I think our players are very, very happy." 
+Irish quarterbacks and assistant head coach for offense David Cutcliffe resigned June 1, citing health reasons. 
Cutcliffe, who had bypass surgery in March said he want­ed to take some time off to get his health back in shape. 
"Poor health initiated a series of events that culminated in this decision," he said in a press conference June 1. "Through it all, no one could have asked for more support than Charlie and the people at Notre Dame gave me and my family." 
Two days later, Peter Vaas, a Notre Dame assistant coach from 1990-91, was hired to replace Cutcliffe. 
Vaas came to the· Irish from NFL Europe, where he was a head coach for six years. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from B a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day ci<!Ssifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit  
Furnished 1 bedroom apt. 2 miles to  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  It's my 21th birthday  
NO. A/C, non-smoking, no pets,  289-9280  
FoR SALE  FoR RENT  $350/mo. Free laundry, Flexible  PERSONAL  Falvey, it's gonna  

 lease.289-9365.  OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$:  be a good year  
Brand new full mattress & box.  Two 2-bdrrn condos: 18041-B Bulla  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Still in plastic. $120. Can deliver.  Rd. & 18027-A Bulla Rd.  www. victorytickets.com  not go it alone.  Fly, Eagles, fly  
574-876-4474.  $975/mo. Property Management Svcs 233-4590.  TICKETS  BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT- If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance,  Opus 1 08 -the place to be  
Queen pillowtop mattress set.  BALL TIX.  please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at  
New with warranty.  Bed & Breakfast lodging w/ND  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  1-7819.  Hang on Alison, you can do it  
$155. Can deliver.  Alumni family for football weekends.  TOP$$ PAID.  CHECK MY PRICES.  For more information, see our bi­ 
574-231-4522.  57 4-243-2628.  251-1570.  273-3911.  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  Who's ready to get nasty?  

Saturday, August 20, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Piane, Irish planning to rebound 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
.Jon Piano has a bittor tasto in his mouth. 
Artor his team f"inished the 2004 regular soason ranked fifth in the nation and winning the Big East Championship, the Notrn Dame men's eross coun­try eoaeh held great expoeta­tions heading into the NCAA Championship in Torm Haute, Ind. 
But Notrn Dame· f"inished ·a nwdioere 11th placo, ending a stellar Simson on a low note. 
"Wn wernn't pleased with that at all," Irish hnad coaeh Joe Piane said. "That was a disap­pointing 11th. Wn anticipated doing rnueh bettor. 
"That will be a motivator for us this year." 
Tho team will look to rebound this season behind a deep, nxpnrinnced and talentnd group of runnnrs. Notrn Dame will be led by its thrnn captains, snniors Tim Moorn and Snan O'Donnell and junior Kurt Benninger. 
In addition to thn tri-eaptains, tho Irish return three of the other four runnors who corn­petod in the NCAA Championships in seniors A.J. Andrassy, Kalob Van Ort and Vincent Ambrieo. Junior Todd Ptaeek and sophomores Jake Watson, Michael Popejoy and Dan Curran all ligure to push for spots in tho top-snvnn. 
"We should bn significantly deeper than we were 12 months ago," Piano said. 
The coach realizes the value or oxpnrience, espncially when it eomns timn for post-season mmJwtition. Notrn Damn's size­able group of seasonnd veter­ans should provide a huge advantage late in the year. 
"Kids that have experience certainly are not going to be intimidat.nd by the l'aet that they are at the national champi­onship," Piano said. "The first time you go to the NCMs you learn how to act. The second time, you come to compete." 
Piane also believes that the team's dnpth will keep individu­als l'oeused and working hard throughout the season. 
"There is going to be zero complacency on this team," the eoaeh said. "Somebody knows il' they slip up, therp,'s going to be two guys that want their spot." 
Notre Dame will also be bol­stered by the addition of a strong f'n~shman class. Piano expects two lirst year runners in particular to make an imme­diate impact. Robbie Baranyi of Yakima, Wash., linished eighth at the Footlocker lligh Sehool National Championship. Fellow freshman Patrick Smythe won the 2004 Utah state champi­onship. Both youngsters have excellent chances of making significant contributions early in their earners for the Irish. 
Notre Dame opens its season on Sept. 9 at the Valparaiso Invitational. The Irish then have two tournaments in a row on their home course. The National Catholic Championship will be Sept. 16, with the Notre Dame Invitational following two weeks later. 
Notre Dame has captured the past 10 team "titles at the National Catholic Champion­ship, and Tim Moore was last year's individual champion. The team has also finished lirst at the Notrn Dame Invitational two of thn last live years. 
The team ends its regular season Oct. 15 in Terre llaute for the Pre-National Championship meet. The Irish will begin post-season play by attempting to defend their title at the Big East Championship in New York on Oct. 28. 
Notre Dame then travels to Bloomington, Ind., for the NCAA Great Lakes Hegional Championship, where the team finished second in 2004. Tho Irish hope to eonclude their season at the NCAA Champion­ship in Terre Haute on Nov. 22. To qualify l'or the national championship, Notre Dame must either plaee in the top two at regionals or perform well enough during the year to receive an at-large bid. 
Piano plans to hold his top veteran runners out of the early races. Benninger, Moore and O'Donnell all probably will not compote until the Notre Dame Invitational. The eoaeh does not want his top runners to be burned out by the end of the season, and he likes to give freshman and inexperienced upperclassmen a chance to prove themselves in the early tournaments. 
"It's very di!Ticult to raee over 8K, and if you do it too many times, you're just going to get exhausted," Piane said. "The seasoned veterans really don't need a lot of racing, they just need to train." 
Piane plans to have his top runners in prime form for a return to the NCAA Champion­ship and a chance at redemp­tion. 
"Our goal is to get back to the NCAAs and improve upon last year's performance," Piane said. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles return five 
starters to squad 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
The 2004 Saint Mary's soccer season was a tale of home and road. The BniiP.s posted a remark­able 7-1 home record, including a 2-0 upsP.t of MIM champion I lope. 
They linished a disappointing 3­5-1 in road eontests, induding a late season five-game losing streak. 
Still, a 10-6-1 record and live returning starters hao:; second year coach Caryn Mackenzie optimistic for the coming campaign. The Belles return, among others, 2004 leading goal scorer Ashley I linton and goalkeeper Laura Heline. 
"A few bounces the other way and we could have been maybe 14-2-1," Mackenzie said ol' last year's seao:;on, in which the Belles posted an incredible +29 goal dif­ferential and lost the six games by a combined nine goals. 
Mackenzie herself is another reason for optimism headed into this season. After lao:;t year's senior class saw coaches leave alter each of their first three seasons, Maekenzip, is baek for her second campaign. 
"The continuity of me being there for a second year will help," Mackenzie said. "Last year I was the fourth coach in four years. It's my second year in. They're used to me, and I'm used to them." 
Heline's 76 saves and 1.24 goals against average keyed a 2004 Belles defense that allowed a league-low 25 goals in 2004. She was also chosen all MIAA honor­able mention. Mackenzie expects more of the same in 2005. 

I linton's 12, and Taylor was con­sidered one of the top defenders in the conlimmco last ymtr. 
NP.vertholess, Mackenzie is con­fident the younger players will fill in admirably. 
"We have a great nucleus com­ing back <Uld a lot or players ready to step up and take the place of the seniors," she said. 
Heturning defensive starters Carrie Orr and Shannon Culbertson will try to pick up thn slack in Taylor's absence. Orr is a specialist at moving fi>rward and netted !'our goals last season. Senior Maura Sehonn and sopho­mores Amy Schindler, Sarah DuBree and Justine I Iiggins will compete for the other defensive spots. Whiln thn fimr havP. signifi­cant game experience over the course of their careP.rs, only Schindler has ever started a gmm). 
Midlield will be a stmngth for the Belles, with returnees I linton and Carolyn l.ogan anchoring the unit. Logan plaend third on the tmun with seven goals last sea<.;on and may also play forward, whern she saw significant time in 2004. 
SchoP.n and Higgins also have midfield experience and may got playing time there. 
Carolyn Courtney returns up front for the BP!Ies, after starting 15 of 17 games last season and recording a goal and two assist<.;. Junior Cat McMillan, who seornd four goals in 14 appearances on· the beneh la<.;t season, should also see time as a fbrward. 
The low number of goals from the forwards is troubling to Mackenzie, but slw expects pro­duction up front to increase this season as players look to piek up 
Your Chance To Sing! 
AUDITIONS FOR NOTRE DAME'S LARGE CHORAL ENSEMBLES 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CHORALE (Notre Dame's mixed-voice concert choir) 
NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB (Notre Dame's all-male choir) 
NOTRE DAME LITURGICAL CHOIR (Mixed-voice choir for 10:00 am Sunday Mass and Sunday Vespers in Basilica of the Sacred Heart) 
NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S LITURGICAL CHOIR (All-female choir for 5:00pm Saturday vigil liturgy in Basilica of the Sacred Heart) 
NOTRE DAME FOLK CHOIR (Mixed-voice Choir for II :45 am Sunday liturgy in Basilica of the Sacred Heart) 
SIGN U·p FORAUDITIONS IN CROWLEY HALL OF MUSIC 
CHORAI.f, GLEE CUJg, LITURGICAl CHOIR, WOMEN'S LITURGICAL CHOIR: SUNDAY. AUG. 21, 3-6 PM, 7-9 PM MONDAY, AUG. 22.9 AM-12 NOON, 1-2:30 PM. 4-6 PM, 7-9 PM 
FOLK CHOIR: 
MONDAY, AUG. 22. 2:30-4:00 PM 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
'WNOTRE DAME 

"We're looking forward to a the scoring slack created by the great year from Laura," departure ofConmnnan. Mackenzie said of her keeper. "We did seem to haVI) trouble "She's steady, she's a lP.ader in th1~ finding the back of the net with our baek, and she takns charge. The frontrunners !<L<.;t year, but I expect team feels very confident with her that will ehange this year," in net." Maekenzie said. "Losing Jen 
To do that, however, they will Coneannan in the middln is unfi>r­have to overcome the loss of sever­tunate, but it may ereate more al starters, induding first team all opportunities and givn more MIAA selections midfielder .len responsibility to the li1rwards." Coneannan and defender Katie Taylor. Concannan's 11 goals last Contact Chris Khorey at season were second only to ckhorey@nd.edu 

RESTAURANT 
Now Hiring Experienced Server Apply in Person 
211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
232,-4445 
www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 20, 2005 
MLB 
Selig doesn't want the help 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. Describing himself as restless and disappointed, commission­er Bud Selig said Thursday he believes baseball can solve its steroids problem without help from Congress. 
"I've often said I won't rest until I rid the sport of steroids," Selig said following the owners' quarterly meeting held at a Pasadena hotel about 10 miles from Dodger Stadium. "If we can't solve our problems, then I submit to you the government should do what it has to do." 
Several baseball stars, past and present, appeared before Congress on March 1 7, with current standout Rafael Palmeiro testifying he had never used steroids. The 40­year-old Baltimore Orioles' star, one of four players to reach 3,000 hits and 500 homers, was suspended for 10 days on Aug. 1 following a positive test for a performance-enhancing drug. 
Selig later reiterated his desire for even more stringent testing and harsher penalties for steroid users, including a 50-game suspension for a first offense, 100 games for a sec­ond and a lifetime ban for a third. 
Management and the union agreed to toughened rules last January that included 10-day suspensions for first-time offenders starting this year. 
"There's no question the 
(steroids) program is working," Selig said. "I said March 17th and again in May, anyone who tests positive is gone. The process is long, it's unwieldy, it is what it is. I've had a very restless four months. This is a collective bargaining issue." 
That being the case, Selig said there has been little dis­cussion lately with the players' union on the matter. 
The only action taken at the meeting was an announcement that baseball has become a founding sponsor of the Taylor Hooton Foundation, a nonprofit corporation formed in memory of a 17-year-old high school student-athlete who committed suicide two years ago in Plano, Texas, after using steroids. 
'Tm happy to say it was just a calm, peaceful day," Selig said. "We really have no sur­prises." 
Selig repeated what chief operating officer Bob DuPuy said a day earlier -that the sale of the Washington Nationals was close to being completed. Eight groups are interested in purchasing the franchise from Major League Baseball, which bought the then-Montreal Expos for $120 million in 2002. 
"We're very close," Selig said. "Well before the season's over, we should be done. I'm very pleased with that -a wonder­ful end to a tough story. This was a situation fraught with a lot of potential problems. It's going to come to an end; we're going to come out of the owner­ship business. The commission­er will be delighted." 
The Hooton Foundation is dedicated to battling steroid abuse among young people through education and public awareness. 
As part of its sponsorship, baseball will donate $500,000 in each of the next two years and provide support and assis­tance wherever possible, such as a link to baseball's Web site. 
"Baseball is a social institu­tion with enormous social responsibilities," Selig said. "While baseball gets all the headlines, steroid abuse is rampant (otherwise)." 
Hooton's father, Donald M. Hooton, is chairman and presi­dent of the foundation. He also testified before Congress in March. 
"Most experts believe five or six percent of high school stu­dents are playing with this stuff," Hooton said. "Not all of these abusers are athletes. 
"As we have learned first­hand, the use of anabolic steroids can be deadly. Taylor was showing all the signs of using anabolic steroids. We came to the conclusion there was a desperate need to edu­cate (the public). 
"We are deeply grateful to commissioner Selig and Major League Baseball for believing in our cause. I'm hoping today is another huge milestone." 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles looking to right the ship after 6-19 year 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
Back on track. 

That's the main idea for the St. Mary's volleyball team. After dou­bling their win total each season from 2001 through 2003, the Belles slipped to 6-19 last year. 
"I feel we have to get back on track because the previous three years we had been making such progress," Belles head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. 
Schroeder-Biek played for St. Mary's and served as the head coach from 1991-96, and then rejoined her alma mater in 2000 as the head coach. The veteran coach had back surgery in the middle of last season and was forced to miss the second half. To add to the team complications, several of the Belles' top players were on sabbatical for a year to study abroad, and several were lost to injury. 
With the head coach back on the bench for St. Mary's, the Belles also hope to bring back their winning ways. 
"I feel100 percent better going into this season than last season because last season I was going in sick and then ruptured a disc in my back, so having surgery in the middle of the season, it was­n't a great one," Schroeder-Biek. 
"It really pulled us off focus. My mantra this year is 'back on track."' 
After a trying 2004 season, the Belles return four of their top players in junior outside attacker Michelle Turley, senior middle hitter Shelly Bender, junior Anne Cusack and sophomore outside attacker Kristen Playko. With most of that group together dur­ing the 2003 season, the Belles fmished a respectable 16-13. 
''I'm really excited about the core that we have coming back," Schroeder-Biek said. "It's a very strong core." 
Other players returning include Talia Matry-Vacaro -who played her first year with the Belles before traveling abroad last year -and Amanda David. 
While they have yet to win a Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association championship in their program's history, the Belles' talent this year could carry them toward the top of the conference. 
"They [the team] played a lot this summer. We are not deep in setting, but they are a good team," Schroeder-Biek said. "They all get along very well." 
When asked about any aspira­tions for this season, Schroeder­Biek answered quickly. 
"To get back on the winning track and climb our way back up the ladder." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 


---...---....
-.... -..­
_ -__
_. _ 
-~--­
--------~­
--~­
_....,~-t! ..... 

ND student pricing: $45 
Ethernet Cables 
PLUS 
keyboards, 
mouse pointers, 
and other 
accessories 
r------~ 
Saturday, August 20, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
... '" ··:1r· 
.·~ .. 
.. 'ni 
~''· 
·1~,. 
~ ... "For he to¢ly thatsheds his blood with me shjWbe my brother.)' 


. 
.·~ Summer ShakeSpeare atNotte Dame
' 
presen!$/be stirring saga ofwar andheroism. 
~~gust '9 -28 

\': Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Perfonning Arts -University of Notre Dame 
!fl .. 
'J.• .. 
·-~' 
j,r 


For ticket infonnation and reservation$, call 574-631..2800. Or visit shalrespeare.pd.edu. 
The dates for Falstaffs Dream have been changed to MONDAY, AUQUST 22, 7:30 p.m. and TUESDAY, AUGUST 23. 7:30 p.m. Tickets are available at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Box Office. For questions or to purchase tickets, 
please call (574) 6312800 or go online at http://performingarts.nd.edu/falstaff.shtml 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 20, 2005 
N 0 VOLLEYBALL 
Brown, Brewster, Irish hoping to make deep NCAA run 
Five returning seniors lead young squad into 2005 season 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
When asked if this year's Irish volleyball team has a season motto, veteran head coach Debbie Brown didn't give any­thing away, but sounded confi­dent her team would come up with something big. 
"We haven't come up with any­thing yet," she said. "I think they're kind of working on it and trying to get to know each other. I'm sure they'll think of some­thing." 
Last year's Big East regular season and tournament champi­ons are still shaping their 2005 identity. 
"We wanted to wait for the freshmen to get in and to get to play with them a little bit [before we come up with a motto]," sen­ior co-captain and libero Meg Henican said. "And just kind of let our team develop before we decided on something because we wanted it to be something that we all could use, and it would be a good reminder for all of us." 
With a strong nucleus of return­ing players, including five seniors, the Irish veterans recognize the need to gel with the freshmen. 
"We have four freshmen, and they're a big part of our team, and we wanted them to be involved in that," Henican said. 
While the motto is a work in progress, one thing is definite. 
The Irish want to win -again. 
Nine of the top 10 players in nearly every statistical category -defense, sets, serves, blocks and kills -are back. 
The team returns pre-season Big East player of the year and 2004 third-team All-American Lauren Brewster, senior outside hitter/middle blocker Lauren Kelbley, also a selection to the pre-season all-Big East team, and the leader Henican. Senior setter Kelly Burrell, senior middle blocker/opposite Carolyn Cooper and junior Danielle Herndon will play important roles this season along with versatile sophomores Adrianna Stasiuk, Ashley Tarutis and Ellen Heintzman. 
Despite all the accolades the seniors have received throughout their careers, despite all the wins they've accumulated, they are hungry for more. 
"We always set our goals pretty high, but I think with so many seniors and so many returnees coming back, we, of course, expect great things this year," Henican said. 
Notre Dame has won the Big East regular season title nine out of the past 10 years and the tour­nament title eight out of the past 10 years and made the NCAA tournament 13 consecutive sea­sons. Last season, the Irish took both titl~s and finished with a 21­9 record after falling to Wisconsin 3-0 in the second round of the NCAA tournament. 
"We definitely want to finish stronger than we did last year," Brown said. 
According to Henican, the goal is to finish quite a bit stronger. 
"My goal every year is to win a national championship. We have some smaller ones along the way. We want to win our conference, but [to win the national champi­onship is] our ultimate goal." 
Though the Irish have dominat­ed the Big East for much of the 90s and for the beginning part of this decade, they have yet to advance past the second round of the NCAA tournament since 1997. 
If Notre Dame is to repeat its Big East title, improve on last year's record and better its 2004 NCAA tournament run, it must accomplish those feats against some of the nation's top squads. 
The Irish play five matches against pre-season American Volleyball Coaches Association [AVCA] top 20 teams. 
A perennial in the Top 25, Louisville is a newcomer in the Big East Conference. The Cardinals, ranked 14th in the pre­season poll, are on Notre Dame's schedule at least once this regu­lar season but the two could also meet in the Big East Conference tournament. Last time the Irish played the former Conference USA team, the Irish fell 3-0 in the opening round of the 2003 NCAA tournament. ­

Other top teams Notre Dame faces include Texas, Southern Cal, Florida and Tennessee. Eight of the 14 non-conference foes the Irish were 2004 NCAA tourna-ment participants. 

Notre Dame, ranked 27th in the AVCA, opens the season against rival Michigan Saturday, Aug. 27 at the Joyce Center. 
"We can't wait," Henican said. "We're excited." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

What's on the agenda? 

This will be a question asked often on campus, beginning next month when Notre Dame inaugurates a new, unified, Web-based calendar system that will list events for all segments of the University community. It will be the one place where students, faculty, staff and the general public can read about all the major events scheduled on campus. 
Agenda will organize events by category, such as Arts & Entertainment, Academic Dates, Student Life, Health & Recreation, and Service as well as by day, week, month and even year. 
Come visit our multipurpose calendar for your one-stop calendar experience-­watch for details on a start date. 
Welcome to campus! 

Saturday, August 20, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
Welcome, Students! We've Got aYear of Great Performances Ahead at Notre Dame's DeBartolo Performing Arts Center! 

9/2 Acappella quintet TOXIC AUDIO. described in rave 11/1-11/2 Modern dance with the renowned MERCE 2/18 THE SOWETO GOSPEL CHOIR, world-famous African reviews as "the audio equivalent of STOMP" You won't CUNNINGHAM DANCE COMPANY; inspirational musicians. in concert; 8pm be Iieve your ears' 8pm 7:30 pm (both nights) 
2/26 Premiere classical flautist SIR JAMES GALWAY, 
9/9 Classical musicians ENSEMBLE GALILEI and 11/6 Grammy Award-winning Senegalese pop musician LADY JEANNE GALWAY, and the POLISH CHAMBER NPR's "Talk of the Nation" Host NEAL CONAN YOUSSOU N'DOUR-"The Voice of Africa"-in ORCHESTRA in concert; 7 pm in amultimedia performance that includes images from concert; 7pm 
3/2 Ireland's most recognized name in traditional music 
the Hubble Space Telescope; 8pm 

11/8 Contemporary jazz from Mexico with the ETHOS TRIO; THE CHIEFTAINS in concert: 7:30pm 9/16 An evening with BRUCE HORNSBY, former Grateful 7:30pm 
3/4 Classical guitarist ROBERT BLUESTONE in WOVEN 
Dead band member and versatile rock pianist; 9 pm 

11/9 Classical pianist KRYSTIAN ZIMERMAN in concert; HARMONY, amultimedia concert featuring the textile 9/30 Legendary Irish musician, the "Bard of Armagh" 7:30pm art of REBECCA BLUESTONE; 8 pm TOMMY MAKEM in concert with his sons, 
11/27 Austria's world-famous VIENNA CHOIR BOYS in 3/9 Grammy-award winning musician EDGAR MEYER 
THE MAKEM BROTHERS; 8 pm 

concert; 3 pm (slandup bass) and MIKE MARSHALL (mandolin, 10/6 OPERA VERDI EUROPA GALA NIGHT: An evening guitar) perform bluegrass with classical influences:
12/1 The PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA,
of opera's greatest hits; 7:30pm 7:30pm

conducted by Hans Graf with violinist Sarah Chang; 10/13 Traditional jazz with the world-famous PRESERVATION 7:30pm 3/21 POMERIUM in concert, performing acappella sacred HALL JAZZ BAND; 9 pm music of the Renaissance; 7:30 pm
12/9 Classical guitar virtuoso CHRISTOPHER PARKENING 10/14 Academy Award-winning composer and conductor and bass-baritone JUBILANT SYKES perform aspecial 3/23 One of Russia's best-known classical ensembles, MARVIN HAMLISCH: 9 pm Christmas show; 8 pm the KIROV ORCHESTRA, directed by Valery Gergiev; 7:30pm
10/21 Acelebration of Gypsy song and traditional Spanish 12/11 Enjoy atraditional Celtic Christmas with award-winning . dance with BALLET FLAMENCO JOSE PORCEL; 9pm performers CHERISH THE LADIES; 7pm 3/25 Contemporary Irish instrumental band FLOOK; 8pm 
10/27 Atlanta's 7Stages Theatre performs Athol Fugard's 2/4 Arab composer, violins!, and oud master SIMON 4/1 Britain's leading period-instrument orchestra, t11e ground-breaking play about apartheid "MASTER SHAHEEN in concert with OANTARA: 8 pm ACADEMY OF ANCIENT MUSIC; 8pm HAROLD" ... AND THE BOYS: 7:30pm 
2/10 Grammy-winning violinist MARK O'CONNOR'S 4/21 BILL CHARLAP TRIO in concert, built around the 10/29 Internationally celebrated mezzo-soprano DAWN HOT SWING in concert; 8 pm phenomenal jazz piano of Bill Charlap: 8 pm UPSHAW and contemporary ensemble EIGHTH 
2/14 Canadian classical pianist ANGELA HEWITT 
BLACKBIRD perform Osvaldo Golijov's "Ayre"; 8 pm 
in concert; 7:30pm 

STUDENTS CAN PURCHASE TICKETS WITH DOMER DOLLARS, PACFUNDS, CASH, CHECK, OR CREDIT! 
Student ticket prices range from $10-$20, depending on performance. Don't forget about our movies! See the full schedule on line, or call DPAC's recorded Film Line: 631-FILM 
For details about these shows, keep an eye on our Web site: 
http://performingarts.nd.edu 
You can buy your tickets online, or call the DPAC Ticket Office at 631-2800. 

Music Department and Film. Television, and Theatre Department events, as wel.l as other departmental events, take place in the performing arts center throughout the year. Check the Web for afull schedule. 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 20, 2005 
and Nate Norman further aug­menting the Irish offensive
New Faces 
charge. Jn 2004, these players
continued from page 26 
helped the Irish to one of the best regular seasons in pro­
action. The Irish also bring gram history. The Irish cap­in Andrew Quinn and Luke tured the regu-Seibolt, two freshman keepers. lar season Big expected. 
"That was a really tough loss to swallow," Dalby said. "We had a great year and finished off strong in the regular sea­son. We had high expectations going into the tournament." 
The Irish 
will look to 
Clark insists competition in East title, a "To win the Big East was make up for net is wide open. feat Clark was definitely the best thing last year's 
"That decision hasn't been quite proud of. disappoint­
any of the teams have
made yet," Clark said. "We'll "To win the ing finish in give a couple of the goalkeep­Big East was done to date because it is 2005. The ers a look on Monday." definitely the such a difficult league.,, team enters 
Notre Dame opBns the sea­best thing any the year son on Monday, hosting of the teams ranked No. eighth-ranked New Mexico in have done to Bobby Clark 16 in the an exhibition game at Alumni date because it Irish head coach NCSAA pre­
Irish defenseman Ben Crouse moves up field last season. Crouse and other returning defenders will have to fill the void created by the loss of three players to the MLS after last year. 


season poll. 
Things do not get any easier for Notre Dame after Monday's match with New Mexico. The Irish face steep out of conference competition to begin the 2005 campaign, with three of Notre Dame's first four opponents ranked in the preseason top 25. 
"This is the toughest sched­ule we've had on paper," Clark said. "We feel the tougher schedule you get, it doesn't ensure wins. But it ensures preparation if you are fortu­nate enough to get to the NCAA's, we'll have played top quality teams." 
That is the bottom line for the Irish. Regular season games are important, but the team is concentrating on equaling those successes in the 2005 postseason. 
"It's pretty simple," Rellas said. "We want to win the Big East league and then we got the Big East tournament. 
"Then we get into the NCAA tournament and that's when we've gotta go. We've gotta get to [the NCAA championship site in North] Carolina and win a national championship." 
Field. is such a diffi­
The good news for Clark is cult league," the Irish n~turn a great deal of Clark said. offensive firepower. Six of the After battling Seton Hall to a top seven scorers from last Standstill in the Big East season are back. Forwards Tournament championship Justin McGeeney and Tony game, the Irish lost on penalty Megna led the team with five kicks. The team received the goals each last season. fifth seed in the NCAA tourna­
Captains John Stnphens and ment, the highest seed in pro­Greg Dalby and sophomore· gram history. After a first Kurt Martin lead an experi­round bye, though, Ohio State enced group of midfielders, upset Notre Dame 2-1, ending with juniors Ian Etherington the Irish season earlier than 


• Observer File Photo Notre Dame midfielder Greg Dalby fights off two Ohio State defenders last season. Head coach Bobby Clark has high expectations for Dalby and the 2005 Fighting Irish. 



Hey Freshmen! 
Want to write Sports? Call Mike at 1-4543. 
,\1\usl present coupon at t1me nf service. Expires 9/30/05. Not v.alid with any other offer. 
L ----·-----------.I 

WE OFFER A STUDENT DISCOUNT FOR ALL STUDENTS: 
Get $2 OffYour Next Haircut and 10% Off any Chemical Service or Retail Product! 
181-1 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED CLOSE TO CAMPUS! IBy Papa John's and Between the Buns) 
(574) 271-7674 
Walk-Ins Welcome Appointments Apprr•ci,lted 
WELCOME 
NOTRE DAME 
FRESHMEN! 
r .. 
SPECIAL OFFER FOR ND FRESHMEN 
1/2 OFF 
Women's or 
I 
Men's Haircut 
I 
10°/o OFF 
Chemical Services and Retail Products 

Saturday, August 20, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 
FreshiDen 
continued from page 36 
veteran players, they don't look like frnshmen. So that's the good sign." 
Thn highest nxpectations belong to Bock, who was rated the number onn player in the world in her age group by wom­nnsworldfootball.com. The frilmdly, 5'(," phnnom is capable of playing anywhern on the field, aeeording to Waldrum. 
Shn is so talented she skipped hnr junior year of high school scH~cor to play with the Chicago Magic~. the number-one rated undnr-1 X boys tnam in the nation. In 2003 hnr Team Illinois club won the Olympic Development Program (ODP) national title, and she was the youngest player invited to the under-19 U.S. National Team camp last year. 
It's preparation of this sort that made the Naperville, Ill., native one of the most heavily recruited players in the country last year. 
But when it came time to pick one school, Notre Dame stood out for more than just the stellar soccer program. 
"It just feels so perfect to me," Bock said. "I couldn't imagine going any other place. I fell in love with the campus, the team and the coaches. It's great for my academies, and I like the fact that it's dose to home." 

Carrie Dew moves upfleld In practice earlier this week. Dew is one of three highly regarded newcomers on the Irish roster as the team tries to defend Its 2004 national championship. 
Dew and Inglis, both top play­ers on the national dub soccer scene themselves, agree with Bock's rationale for coming to South Bend. 
Inglis, who drew recruiting interest from schools such as Stanford, Vanderbilt and Purdue, chose Notre Dame after starring for the Ft. Wayne Fever club along with her Snider High squad. 
"In my mind, nothing com­pares to Notre Dame," Inglis said. "As soon as [Notre Dame] became an option, I was like 'I'm not looking anywhere else."' 
Dew's quiet demeanor masks a competitive side that helped her standout while attending high school in Encinitas, Calif. She captained the San Diego Surf, the number-one girls club team in the nation along with winning the 2004 ODP national champi­onship with the Southern California state team. 
The defender admirns her new teammates for their physical tal­ent but also for their positive attitude. 
She was excited, along with the Irish soccer faithful, after seeing Bock tack up two goals in her first collegiate scrimmage against Butler on Aug. 14. But she also sees a bright future for Inglis, who is currently sidelined with a sprained ankle, suffered on the first day of practice. 
"[Inglis has] kept a really posi­tive attitude," Dew said. "She'll definitely be a huge part of the team. 
Doctors told Inglis she should be back in two to four weeks. But when asked about her per­sonal timetable for a return, her response characterized her teammates eagerness to begin their promising careers at Notre Dame. 
"Hopefully it's on the two end," Inglis said. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


Repeat 
continued from page 36 

Krivacek, junior, who scored the winning goal in the championship, will also be returning. 
Other returning seniors include Candace Chapman, Miranda Ford, Maggie Manning, Amber McMillin, Annie Schefter, Katie Thorlakson -who tied the score at one 
against  UCLA  last  
December  - and  Jenny  
Walz.  
Irish  coach  Handy  

Waldrum understands that in order for his team to be successful, they have to maintain the same focus that allowed them to achieve great things last season. 
"I think 
to play." 
The off season was quite busy for the Irish on sev­eral fronts, as the coach­ing staff put together a top recruiting elass and Irish players competed on various club teams. 
Thorlakson also had thn honor of being nominated for the ESPY award given to the best female college athlete.· 
But with the regular sea­son quickly approaching, the Irish are now looking for a repeat. And with Notre Dame coming off a NCAA title, there is even more attention on the pro­gram. 
"Whether you're a stu­dent here or a student athlete here, Notre Dame is always under a micro­scope anyway because of 
who wn 
a r e , 


Welcome Back 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students 

Rocco Ferrara, creator of Atria Salon, Atria Salon2, and our new Spa Atria in Granger is offering 100 complimentary Haircut & Highlights to the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. This is our way to show you our creative talents as well as welcoming you to our salon. All we ask, "just tell a friend." 
Atria Salon2 
Specializing in Color 2039 South Bend Ave. 574-271-8804 South Bend, IN Located off Ironwood and State Rd. 23 in the Martins Shopping Plaza 
To qualify for this promotion please call the salon coordinator @ 271-8804 and let them know you're interested. **Certain restrictions apply. This offer expires September 3, 2005. 

now the whole key will be mak­ "Notre Dame is always under a microscope  Waldrum said. "So we are used to  
ing sure  they  because ofwho we  playing with  
don't back  come in any  are.  a and  target, I think  
kind of com­ we  just  
fort  or  a  Randy Waldrum  made  it  a  
relaxed  Irish head coach  little  bit  
a  r  e  a  ,  bigger."  
Waldrum  The  Irish  

said. "That's the biggest have already shown offen­thing we've had our eye sive sparks early on this on -to make sure we season, beating Butler in don't have any drop off." an exhibition game 8-1 on 
Waldrum does think, Aug. H. however, that to this Notre Dame was led by point, his team has freshman Brittany Bock worked hard to make sure who had two goals and an they are intense and assist. focused. With that said, 2005 
"I really don't think should still be challenging that's been the case," for the Irish despite their Waldrum said about his early season success. The team displaying signs of team faces several quality comfort early this season. opponents including "We watched that close in Connecticut, Florida, the spring, and it was one Maryland, Michigan, Santa of our best springs ever. Clara and Villanova. The intensity level just grew. They did what they Contact Bobby Griffin at needed to do to get ready rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Wan Sook Trading Co. 
EXOTIC IMPORTS ,. ORIENTAL TREASURES 
2218 Mishawaka Avenue Uust east oflronwood Road) 
New Goods from Asia at Excellent Prices/ 
Cultured Pearls • Thai Silver Exotic Fashion ,Jewelry Oriental Scarves & Handbags Indian and Thai Style Shirts and Clothing 
10% Discount for ND Students! Monday through Saturday llam-7pm Sunday 12 noon-5pm 

Recycle The Observer. 
~~d~;j
"Area's largest selection!" 
tt!4t~ol£~1£ 
Only one mile from Campus! East Bank Emporium Restaurant Building 121 S. Niles@ Je.ffeoon. downtown South Bend r574l232-8488. Hours: Mon.·Sat. 10 •6 


NCAA BASKETBALL 
Viewers to see a lot of IU in 2005 

AssoE'iated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -At least 13 Indiana basketball games will be nationally tele­vised in 2005-06, including home games against Duke, Connectieut, Michigan State and Illinois an~ a game against Kentucky at the RCA Dome in Indianapolis. 
The Hoosiers also will play four other teams from Indiana, including Big Ten rival Purdue twice, on Jan. 21 in Bloomington and either Feb. 28, March 1 or March 2 in West Lafayette. 
"We have a great schedule and it will certainly test us early and often throughout the season," Indiana coach Mike Davis said. "The thing that I like about this schedule is that it will provide an objective gauge of our team's 
progress." "We have a great 
The Nov. 30 schedule,·and it game against 
will certainly test 

Duke is part of 
the Big Ten-ACC us early and often 
Challenge. throughout the Purdue, which 
season. It will

has the Big 
Ten's top provide an 
returning scor­objective gauge of er, Carl Landry, 
our team's

will visit Florida 
progress.

State on Nov. 29 as part of the annual show­
Mike Davis 

down between 
Indiana coach 

the two confer­ences. 
The Boilermakers also will play Xavier and Notre Dame will face North Carolina State in the annual Wooden Tradition 
doubleheader  Nov.  26  at  
Conseco  Fieldhouse  in  
Indianapolis.  

"There are no real surprises on the schedule," said new Purdue coach Matt Painter, whose regular-season debut will be at home against Wofford on Nov. 19. "Every year the Big Ten is one of the most competi­tive conferences in the country, and this season should be no different. I feel like the Big Ten is going to be very good from top to bottom." 
The Boilermakers will begin conference play on the road, at Northwestern on Jan. 4 and at Michigan on Jan. 7. 
The Big Ten schedule, released this week, also shows Purdue playing twice against each conference team except Illinois, Iowa, Michigan State and Wisconsin. The lone game against defending Big Ten champion Illinois will be in Champaign on Jan. 28. 
"I like having a couple of road games to begin conference play," said Painter, who was the Boilermakers' associate coach last season and moved up when Gene Kea~y retired. "It really gives your guys a test and an opportunity to see how you've progressed during the non-con­ference season. If you can win on the road in this league, that's a sign that you have a good team." 
Purdue also visits Evansville on Dec. 3 and has a home game 

regular-season opener against Nicholls State will be Indiana's earliest start since 2001. 
The Hoosiers' non-conference schedule also indudes games against Kentucky on Dec. 10, at Charlotte on Dec. 19 and at home against Connecticut on Feb. 4 during a break from Big Ten play. It will be the Huskies' first game in Bloomington since 1938. 
Indiana's conference schedule begins at home against Miehigan on Jan. 3 and Ohio State in a nationally televised game Jan. 8. Indiana also will play Illinois on Jan. 17 and visit the Illini on Feb. 19. Michigan State hosts Indiana on Jan. 11 and visits the Hoosiers on Feb. 26. 

against IPFW on Dec. 20. 
Indiana's sched­ule also includes games at Indiana State on Dec. 6, against Butler at Conseco Fieldhouse on Dec. 23 and at Ball State on Dec. 
31. Also, two Division II schools from Indiana will visit the Hoosiers in preseason exhibi­tion games, with St. Joseph's coming in on Nov. 4 and Indianapolis on Nov. 
11. The Nov. 18 

NOMA 
dine drink + be stylish 
Atruly unique dining and drinking 
•

experience, 
featuring a creative blend of fusion style culinary delights with a delicate touch of Asian flavors in an exciting yet intimate setting. 
Plus, a stylish and contemporary fusion martini bar. 
Just one block away from Morris Performing Arts Center. 


Saturday, August 20, 2005 

Make sure you get the things you need for your new 
home at school 
--------------,
Ll N E NS·N·TH INGS. 
20
%.--., 
· off 
any single i~em· 
or 
any $100 or more purchase* 
9111~11~111111~~~~~11 t 
I I ·(~10 ~ Pf)l' cutti(YOOI" No ~IC'tions. Sa.y, coupon nt)t w11id JI I<>W-tho ~ af IV\.1)8, Capresoo. AI Clad, J A. Hon<>eiS. 
S/wJleo inoge. UO,. ~. l"""P<K·PeOC 0< LNT Gin CM:Js. Carrot be II cxtntwled Will• 8/tf ottu coupon ex onar. Coopof1 nol valid towards 
JWIN'IC.)I.M J)lfdiUOOB ,)l'llj CHI'JKM hu IIOOd wnh l.lt'm$ 'n niii'IQS Cruti! (:ut(! II ~rs1 I>~J,:hiiHEt olfllf Qthl)r fi!UtflctiOn!i ,,w.r,. apply Ploooo !it!E~ !:i1t>re fur 1 \ dfll:i~i.l-'rN'lft~linllwiiJS.A Coupnnmcp!f'flt191:.~0/(.'l6.
--------------' 
Crib Comforts 0 2 Sheet Sets 
(Include flat and fitted sheets and pillowcase.) Chock with your college to see ff you need X·long sheets. 
0 1 Comforter or Quilt (Ct<»S<> <llll1er poly or down·tille<l.) 
0 2 Duvet Covers 
(~you choooo a down comfortor.) 02 Blankets 
(It's always good to have an elttra one.) 
02 Pillows 0 4 Pillow Protectors 0 1 Fitted Mattress l"ad 0 1 Ar-..cent Rug D Door Beads 
Clean It 
0 1 Tabletop Ironing Board D 1 Hand or Stick Vacuum D 2 Laundry Bags · D 1 Drying Rack 0 1 Compact Iron D Set of 6 Dish Cloths D 1 Cylinder Hamper 
File It D 1 Storage Trunk D 2 Under-the-Bed Containers D 1 Storage Set 0 1 CD or DVD Tower D 1 Set of 4 Bed Risers D 1 Folding Book Case D 1 St1oe Rack D 1 Storage Cart D Hangers 0Mesi1Cubes D 3-6 Milk Crates []Duffel BagD Space Bags 
Cram Time D 1 Bulletin Board D 1 Desk lampD 1 Floor Lamp D 1 Desk Organizer Set 0 1 Bed Rest 
The Observer + SPORTS 
0 1 Lap Desk 0 1 Room Chair 0 Moshi 
Chow Down D 4 Bowls, Plates, Mugs D 1 Bottle/Can Opener 0 1 Water Riter Pitcher D 1 Dorm-S~e Microwave D 1 Dorm-Size Refrigerator 01 Blender 0 1 George Foreman Grill D 1 Toaster Oven D 1 Coffeemaker 
Must Haves D 1 Clock Radio D 1 Telephone 01 Fan 0 1 Pttoto Album 0 2 Extension Cords D 1 Surge Protector 0 1 Waste Basket D 1 Door Mirror 0Batteries 0Wall Hooks 
Shower Time D 6 Towel Sets D 1 Towel Bar D 1 Tub Mat D 1 Shower Liner D 1 Shower Ring Set D 1 Shower Tote D 1 Over The Door Hook D 1 Beclric Toothbrush D 1 Magnifying Mirror D 1 Blow Dryer 0 1 Electric Razor D 1 Robe & Slippers 0 1 Bath Towel Tower D 1 Hair Brush D Suction Hooks D 1 Bath Scale D Hair Straightener 
Ll NENS·N·TH INGS® 
page 29 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Big games getting fewer and fewer 
Twelfth game means more patsies on tap 
Associated Press 

GAINESVILLE, Fla. -This time next year, college football fans everywhere will be plan­ning an extra trip to campus. 
For Florida-Miami? Maybe Pitt-Penn State'? How about Texas-Arkansas? 
They wish. 

Even though the NCAA made the 12th game an annual event beginning in 2006, marquee matchups will be rare because schools are unwilling to trade a lucrative home game for a home-and-away series. They also don't want to fill what would have been an open week with a tough opponent. 
"Everybody thinks automati­cally that now Florida is playing USC, and Oklahoma is playing Michigan and that kind of stuff," Florida athletic director Jeremy Foley said. "I don't see that happening. The 12th game is a significant source of rev­enue for every program in America. I think that's going to be a driving force in the way a lot of these schedules come down." 
Before the NCAA passed the rule in April, Division 1-A pro­grams were allowed to sdwdule a 12th regular-season game in 2002 and 2003, when the cal­endar provided 14 Saturdays between the l'irst woektmd in September and the last week­end in November. The next time that's going to happen is 2008, then again in 2013. 
With that in mind, Florida and Miami already agreed to play in '08 and '13. In other years, Florida has Florida Atlantic, Florida International and Hawaii on tap. 
It's about the same every­where else, with the 12th game providing only a few entieing matchups so far. LSU and Tulane signed a 10-year con­tract. Georgia and Colorado have a series set. Marshall and West Virginia have a seven­game agreement, starting next year. 
South Carolina coach Steve Spurrier wants to play North Carolina, but the Tar Heels have been eool on the idea. 
A blockbuster deal hasn't happened -and might not. 
The additional game will undoubtedly bring a financial windfall to athletic departments from coast to coast, but it also has sparked controversy. Some view it as abusive to student­athletes and merely another step toward mirroring the NFL. 


Welco111e Students 
For your convenience the 'following Student Servic.e Offices will be open under the ""Golden Dome" 

Student Accounts 100 Main Build ng Financial Aid 115 Main Build ng Student Employment 115 Main Build ng Immigration Services 121 Main Build ng Undergraduate Admissions 220 Main Build ng Residence Lif'e and Housing 305 Main Build ng 
Regular business hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m_ Monday through Friday_ 
page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 20, 2005 
CHECKING OUT THE TEAMS 
FOOTBALL MEN'S BASKETBALL 




FENCING 


HOCKEY 
This year, h"'"""'""r should get a breath of fresh air as proven coach Jeff Jackson takes over after leading Lake Superior to two national titles in the early 1990's. Jackson is the first coach in the history ol' Irish athletics to have previously an NCAA title before bei hired as head coach at N .· Dame. ...... a series N 
The Irish lose veferans The Irish are challeoged right Morgan Cf;\y, Cory McLain, and l'rom the start with.a f.ot'ason­}<.H~ Zurenko to gra~uatiol1~ !Jtlt qp~ning road gam~ against \'Vlll retairra lot of the talent 2005 Frozen Four partieipaqt !'rom last year's squad including Colorado CollAge gu Oct. 2t .J*nior Wes O'Neill and senior Then they head up tbir road 'of Matt Walsh. a matchup against defendJng Notre Dame also put together national champion Denver the 
a solid recruiting dass, adding next night. 

.. 

Saturday, August 20, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 31 
CHECKING OUT THE TEAMS 
ND VOLLEYBALL MEN'S SOCCER 


~:;. ~ Notrtl Da.me.muRt replace three of the 'nation's top pla}Fers wfib1•~ombined to giv(' 
the frish the top Jiel'ense in the <~ottnt.ry last , season. All·Allh~rican goalkM'lper Christ' Sawyer and $~andout defenderS' Kevin 
..· ru.. ~d·.····
[iii ~old.·t·h·.. wai~e ..• ..·.·.Ja~k. St"'..·~. artlmv. e:moveg on
;ww~o t!1w MLS,lea,vmg Notrjh Damu, w1th scnous ' · holes in its defense. · 
Coaeh Bobl)y ~ark will cmult on captain Dale neUas and junior Hyan Millrr to hold down the defensive back. The replacnm!lnt for Sawyer has yHt to lw dntnrmined, with senior Justin Michaud, junior Chris Cahill and freshmen Andrew Quinn and Luh• Sei\)\)Jtvyhig'.for playing timo. 
Captains John Stephens and Grog Dalby and sophomore Kurt Martin form a reliabln and tnlenttld midfield.
eonsoeutive years. 
~-.. 

MEN'S X-COUNTRY ND WOMEN'S X-COUNTRY 


Notre Dame trotted (() a fourth-place finish at last yMr's NCAA Championship. The Irish will look to build on that sucet\SS this season. 
· Coadl Tim ConnAlly's ·1:1quad rAturns thref.} All-Americans ,..._ s~niors ~'lfilphanifl Madia ,!friq ,l\'lolly.Jluddle ,ttrl.d. sophomore Sunni Oldhig. Senio•· Jea11 !Marinangeli and Junior ~atit! J;l(\{\q~<>p alongiwith incomingJrasltman (J.amseyJ<avan, wiU be ~ounw9 on to repine~ graduated All-Amht;~cans Kerry Mtmgher And' Lauren King. • 
Notre Danie opens its seasoit· at the Valparaiso Invitational on St,pt: 9. · 
The team is conf1dnnt and hopeful that It can turn in a.n~ther sH~llar pnrfornmnce and havf:!:, a shht at winning the NCAA Championships to bo held in Tnrre Haut<', Ind. Nov. 21. 
SMCGOLF 

!' ' 

i Despite the loss of national champion Stefanie Simmerman, the Belltls return a solid squad that will work this sHason for a fourth eonsecutive MrAA title. Simmerman, who was named The 
•··· .·Observer's ~aint Mary's Athlete of the Yo~tr, }~~ves a legacy pf,~xcellence that rising sen­]ors Nkole BelliUJfa.nd Megan M(tttia will work to continue. After plating sixth nation· ally in the Division lJI NCAA tournament, a deep squad starts offthe SM..<>on with a dtal­lenge -the Ferris Statt'llnvitational. The Belles have played in three straight NCAA tournaments as coaeh Mark llamilton enters his fourth season atthll helm. 
i His work with the team has elevated it to one of the most eompetitlve programs in Division III. 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
In 2004, Saint Mnry's labOred through a year of itH~onsistpncy. The Belles turned in sumP impn·ssive individual performances, hut injuries and lllm~sst~s IQd todil>appointiog finishes. Saint Mary's finished sixth in a field of nint• tNtms in both ma].ql' copf(:}:f'(;lnC~ (1\'(~nts -The Jambor\l(} and the MlAA chartl­pionships. ··· ' ·· 
SHt~6nd year eoa:dt Jackie Bauters wUlloq;k LV s~Bnr tho BPllea to' iht top of tbl,l Ml~ standings_ Lhis :;eason with" an ,;expedenced group of rf'turning runners. Jessica Eatari and Rocky P(lauto. the team~s eo~capt<tins, should bring consistent performance and leadership tothe team. Megan(iray, Meghan Murphy, Sara Otto and Katie White wi11 round out tho Saint Mary's lineup after post­ing solid individual seasons in 2004. 
MEN'S GOLF 
The def&nding back~to-back Big East duunpions will hav~;~ their wor:k1cut out for tlwm this smn;on, as they willface a daunting s('hedule that gives them little time for a rest -taking on top eompetiti<ln including Minnesota, Duke, and UCLA. \ ,, 
Notr~·:~>ame is sched:Ulcd, tq.tompete in five \t)utnaments this fttli:;)peginnlng St1pten1~r 17-18 at th(:) yOpher Inv}tational. 
Frorrtl there, the Irish will ::travel to Birmingham. Ah\. for the Shoal Creek Intereollegiate beginning SeptembtW 25-27 and the Coca-Cola Duke ~olf Classic on Oct. 
l 0-11. ·..· ~r,xt u~ is The Pr !ll PGA. West in La
H 
Qumta, Calif. beginnitJ Oetober 17-18 and fiM.Ily tho CordeV~l~ fit~f~(rllt:igiate in Sa:tr Martin, C~it~ from'Oct. 31-Nqv. 2. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
~r a dlsappclinting 2004 seat~ori oocause of an iujured ~' and :Sl)road p .· s it's safe to say Saint. Mary'S is ba.t~ktoge 'f'r. The Rcllos Rnlshod 16~3 in;2003rbut feU to 6-19 last Jill~..\> , ( ' /fc'' , , . 
Ll.la\=h 'Jtnif.\'S<'hroeder-llntK is b~ after missing thE1 lattt~r part or 1 -. ~~~9Xl bl'l:ett.ti$¢,~ 
of baek surgecy. Sh£> hat( ;'llGs on a".'ittJF rlol.ng trend since ht't return to· St. Mary's in 2000. But lhst yoar's "un.contrQHables." as · shH said, took thoir tolL , 
Top player~ rnturning indude junior t)ut~ sido attaekPr Mirlwlll:'! Turley. senlor middle hitter Shelly Bender, Junior Anne Cusack.and · sophvmore outsidl! attacker Kristen ,pffiy~o. A few oth~lrs returning include Talht Matty~ va~aro -who is returning from abroad ­and Arnunda David. 
---~-----------------------------------------------------­
Saturday, August 20, 2005 

page 32 The Observer + SPORTS 
ND ATHLETICS 
Students part of a untque expenence 
Brent Musburger said after the 1988 Notre Dame-Miami football' game that "there is no greater love alTair than between the student body of Notre Dame and the foot­ball team." 
While usually dis­agree with about every­thing that comes out of the ABC col­lege football announcer's mouth, for once I believe Brent got it right. 
You might be thinking, as you move into your dorm this weekend, that Notre Dame students like Notre Dame football because it's a winning pro­gram. But a quick look at the results from the past ten years doesn't show much overwhelming success. Students don't buy up all the football tickets in just hours. The team hasn't been winning. The reason students at this school go wild over all their sports teams, not just football, is because the athletes are also students. 
Too often in college athletics these days, young athletes are taken advantage of by the institu­tions they play for. They play for four years, earn millions of dollars for corporate sponsors and college presidents and graduate with no degree. 
Notre Dame is different. 
Notre Dame goes out of its way to make sure athletes are not sep­arated from the other students. They eat in the same dining halls. They live in the dorms. They attend class just like everyone else. 
They share the same proud feel­ings as the regular student when looking at the Golden Dome. They join everyone else in graduating from this University and taking a priceless degree out into the world. And they have a respect for the student body that studies, eats, prays and lives with them for nine months a year. 
The Notre Dame administration treats athletes as students, which is exactly what they are. 

Mike Gilloon 
Sports Editor 
This is one of the reasons you should feel special to attend this University and take part in its unique athletic culture. When you stand in the student section for the football game against Michigan State in a few weeks, remember you are cheering for your fellow students. 
That guy returning punts might be in your math class. That line­man could live down the hall. That coach graduated just a few years ago. 
Yes, Irish athletes compete for programs that earn millions for the school. The football program's contract with NBC is a perfect example. But monetary values alone don't tell the full story about Irish athletes. 
Their graduation rates are con­sistently among the highest in the nation, and there is no Basket Weaving major. 
As the newest member of the Notre Dame family, you are privi­leged to participate in this special athletic environment. You have four years to take part in the 'love affair' Musberger talked about. 
So go to the football games on Saturday afternoons. Attend the pep rallies on Friday nights, even if you find it a little hokey. 
But don't forget about the other sports when you get caught up in football fever this fall. Walk over to the soccer fields and watch the defending national champions hustle all over the field. 
Enjoy the basketball games in the Joyce Center every winter. 
Appreciate the effort of the ten­nis players and the volleyball team, diving all over the courts. 
Every time you see an Irish squad win, you win, too. Because that guy catching that touchdown pass is your roommate: That girl who scored the winning goal is your chem lab partner. And that player getting carried off the field is a member of the Notre Dame student body, just like you. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 

GET INVOLVED IN IRISH ATHLETICS! 
The Sports Information Office is looking for student assistants for the 2004-05 school year. Any student interested in becoming active in Irish athletics should come to an informational meeting: 
Tuesday, Aug. 23, 7:30p.m. In the Sports Information Office (Joyce Center, second floor inside Gate 2). 
For more information, call Bernie Cafarelli at 1-7516. 
.....______________ -----­

ND students: 

n Fr 
t 
nt t 



Iii 

n r 
I 
fr t-hi rt.* 



With features like free Online Banking, a free CheckCard and plenty of ATM locations, a National City Free Student Checking account simplifies your financial life. And now it gives you one more reason to put off doing the laundry. ND students, open a Free Student Checking account at one of the branches listed below and receive a free t-shirt. Hurry in. Limited-time offer. 
NationalCity® 

SOUTH BEND c.::ENTR/~1... CLAY BE£\ID!X 11(J No:·-n..: L.::1!'c:1yotlt:-; 1044 8(·HHiix Dr. 57·~ .)(~7--r.l.733 574 -~?.:37··.'~()85 574 :?.37. 4660 
'Gift offer applies only to new Free Student Checking accounts opened with money not on deposit at National City. Limit one gift per household, while supplies last. CS-18/25-UND·Vl Member FDIC • ©2005, Nat1onal City Corporation"" 

Saturday, August 20, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 33 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Freshlllan four vvorking to earn illllllediate playing tillle 
Ayers, Hillesland, McAlarney and Zeller impress veterans 

LaFoufone Open Hoose luisb Gol~en Jobilee 
F12eeFoo~! 111/in an lPo~, PSP, DVDpla;ye12 O'Q oebe'Qg12eaep12lzesf 
Come fin~ out what the LaFoRtune Sto~ent CenteR bas to OffeR 
Mon~aty, August .2..2. 4:~0p.m. to 6:~0p.m. 
Fan, Fooi), Garnes, Fan, Fooi), Garnes, Fan, Fooi), GalT)es, Fan, Fooi), Garnes 




NOTRE DAME MEN'S SOCCER BIG EAST CHAMPIONS! 
Saturday, August 20th at 5 pm at Alumni Field 
•Come out to a FREE BBQ & Meet the National Champion Women's Soccer Team & BIG EAST Men's Soccer Team 
# 16 Notre Dame vs. #6 New Mexico 
Mon. , Aug. 22nd at 7 pm at Alumni Field 
FREE Admission "" Home Openerl 
•First soo Notre Dame, Holy Cross, &St. Mary's students will 111 receive the 2005 Notre Dame Soccer long-sleeve schedule shirt Mo~ng 
courtesy of PJ Marketing ~ 
•Notre Dame Student Activities will be providing a pre-game BBQ for Notre Dame, Holy Cross and St. Mary's students, while supplies last 
•'os N.D. Football Lottery Number will be drawn at half-time 
•5 students have a chance to win '05N.D. football season tickets! 

.........................,i"i~·it·~;;;~·.-~~·t~~d·~~~ ..~~;.;.;~ti~~~:~~·~·f~·;·~ii'ih~·~~1:~~t·· .. ··~·~ti.... ~i·in·t~~~~ti~~ ................................. 
mer and finished with over a 3.0 
grade point average. Ayers, a 
wiry 6-foot-7 shooter who aver­
aged 16.4 points in his senior 
season at Germantown 
Academy, gained 10 pounds of 
muscle ovnr thn summer. 
In time, Ayers could fit the mold of former Irish forward Dan Miller, a 6-foot-8 shooter who created mismatches against guards and forwards alike. 
But this summer, whethnr it was Ayers doing bench presses, Zeller bning more physieal in the post, llillesland covnring every player on the lloor or McAlarney scoring, all of the freshmnn worked on both the strnngths and wnaknessns that will earn them playing time immediately, Brey said. 
"Morn than any year I've been here, the freshmen as a whole need to have an impact !this year!," Brey said. "And they will get every chance to have an impact. We push them to com­pete for playing time right away and not wait their turn." 
The Irish will look different from last year, when seniors· Chris Thomas and Jordan Cornette led an older, more established group that also included senior transfer Dennis Latimore. 
Quinn will start at point guard, with Falls returning as a definite starter and Francis anchoring the low posl after pulling his name out of the 2005 NBA Draft in June. 
Other than those names, how­ever, the lineup and the game plan will be determined by which players -including all four of the freshmen -step up. 
Hillesland, the first player of the four freshmen to commit to Notre Dame (Feb. 2004), stands at 6-foot-8, 220 pounds and adjusts well to the style of play in any situation, Brey said. 
The St. John's Jesuit star played with two other Division-! recruits in high school and was recruited early by schools like Ohio State, N.C. State and Stanford, Brey said, but the Irish knew early that he would be a good fit. 
He averaged 13.0 points and 

9.0 rebounds per game in his junior season. 
Zeller is the player most famil­iar to the local Notre Dame fan base. He earned Mr. Basketball honors in Indiana after hitting a half court buzzer beater to win the Class 3A state title. 
And McAlarney looks to be the heir apparent to Quinn once the senior's final campaign ends in the spring. To prepare the team for such a transition, McAlarney will have to see the floor to gain experience, but Brey said he won't force anything. 
"He needs to back Chris up, but there'll be times when we'll have both of them on the floor," Brey said. "I don't know if we'll do it in as heavy doses as we did with Quinn and Thomas. But he's earned the respect of the older guys. We need him to help us right away." 
In a Big East Conference expanded to add Cincinnati, DePaul, Louisville, Marquette and South Florida, the Irish have gotten deeper with their four additions. And depth means options for 13rey, who feels confi­dent about the progress of his freshman so far. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
When Kyle McAlarney caught the ball during one particular July practice, something didn't look right. 
Cutting sharply from the right low block to a screen at the foul line elbow, McAlarney curled. received the pass, pump faked and then blew by a flat-footed Colin Falls. 
Here was a freshman, a right­handed freshman, taking two hard dribbles to the left and fin-· ger-rolling a left-handed lay up over Big East forwards and cen­ters. 
On the court, a glimpse of the team's future had unfolded. That future may come quicker than expected. 
The 6-foot-1, 190-pound point guard from Staten Island, N.Y., is one of four true freshmen who spent six weeks this summer on campus practicing with the team. 

Though coach Mike Brey is not. allowed to observe or coach summer ball, upperclassmen like seniors Chris Quinn and Torin Francis have told the coach they are impressed with their four newest teammates McAlarney, Ryan Ayers (Blue Bell, Pa.), Zach llillesland (Toledo, Ohio) and Luke Zellm· {Washington, Ind.). 
"Our older guys learned tcf respect them this summer because they took care of their academic business and they worked ... in the weight room," Brey said. "They're workers. 
"And I think when older guys see incoming freshmen have that work ethic, that's a little more mature than your typical fresh­man, they respect that." 
Brey said all four freshmen took two classes over the sum­

page 34 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 20, 2005 
ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish women ready to build on top 5 finish 
Connelly optimistic despite graduation of All-American pair 

By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Losing two All-Americans is never good news. Nevertheless, Notre Dame women's cross coun­try coach Tim Connelly is opti­mistic about the upcoming sea­son. 
The Irish concluded the 2004 campaign with a fourth place fin­ish at the NCAA Championship on Nov. 24 in Terre Haute, Ind. Entering the meet with a string of unfortunate injuries, Notre Dame was thrilled with its top-five finish. 
"On that given day we did everything we could do," Connelly said. 
Notre Dame lost two key mem­bers of last year's team in Kerry Meagher and Lauren King, both top-five finishers for the Irish at the NCAA Championship and All­Americans. Connelly realizes the team will miss the duo's high level of talent and leadership. 
"It's going to take some work to replace those two," Connelly said. 
Fortunately, the Irish return a strong trio of All-Americans in seniors Stephanie Madia and Molly Huddle and sophomore Sunni Olding. Madia finished in 23rd place at the NCAA Championship, leading the Irish with a time of 20:58 in the 6K race. Olding and Huddle, running on an injured foot, recorded the second and fourth best times, 
AT THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE OPEN HOUSE 
-COME AND MEET THE FTT FACULTY -MEET THE FTT MAJORS -INFORMATION ON PRODUCTIONS AND AUDITIONS 
FOR UPCOMING PLAYS -DOORPRIZES! 
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 6:00PM PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
AUDITIONS.... 
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24 & THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 7:00PM 
WINGS BY ARTHUR KOPIT B024, DPAC 
AND 
DESIGN FOR LIVING BY NOEL COWARD PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE, DP AC 
SIGN UP FOR ALL AUDITIONS IN THE FTT OFFICE, 230 DPAC 
respectively, for Notre Dame. 

Madia, Olding and Huddle should serve as the backbone of this year's team, with senior Jean Marinangeli and junior Katie DeRusso providing experienced depth. 
A strong class of incoming freshmen should also help count­er the loss of Meagher and King. In particular, Ramsey Kavan, one of the top high school seniors in the nation last year, should figure into the Irish lineup from day one. Kavan finished third in last year's Footlocker Cross Country National Championship, recording a blis­tering time of 17:47 in the 5 K event. 
"She is a really talented kid who expects to come in and be a big contributor right away," Connelly said. 
The Irish will open their season Sept. 9 at the Valparaiso Invitational. A week later, the team comes home for the National Catholic Championship at Notre Dame's Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Irish have cap­tured the last three National Catholic team titles, with Madia claiming the individual champi­onship last season. 
On Sept. 23, the team will again race on its home course at the Notre Dame Invitational. The Irish have won top honors at this tour­nament three of the past four years. 
The regular season will come to an end at the pre-National Championship Oct. 15 in Terre Haute. The Irish will then head to New York on Oct. 28 for the Big East Championship, where the team finished second in 2004. 

On Nov. 12, Notre Dame will compete in the NCAA Great Lakes Regional Championship in Bloomington, Ind. With a solid showing at regionals, the Irish will qualify for the national champi­onship to be.held ten days later in Terre Haute. 
Connelly has devised a clear plan to prepare his team for the ultimate goal of success at the NCAA championship. The coach will use the early meets to develop depth by mixing and matching several different lineups. 
"I like to put some of the younger, less experienced kids in a position where they can be counted on," Connelly said. "The goal is to have a good nine to 12 really solid kids. We want a mar­gin for error." 
He believes that this strategy will have his team at its best when it matters most. 
"The goal is to get to the nation­al meet and put ourselves in a position where we can be one of the top teams in the country," Connelly said. "I think it's a pretty realistic expectation. On paper, we are a very good team." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 

Saturday, August 20, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 35 
JOCKULAR 
GRAB YOUR ROOMMATE FIND A GOOSE A GREAT GAME OF FUN 
WILL BE ON THE LOOSE 
~ / 
. ,~/
~/ 

CROSSAINTWORLD 
ERIK POWERS AND ALEC WHITE 
iWOMEN APPROVED BY 
HORACE GREELEY 

SINCE 1981 
Zahm Hall. 
You aren't a tool..•yet. 



ADAM FAIRHOLM 
'fE.AH '? 'V\/EI...L ouR. AI-RI ui--IT1 'f CU.. \.:, N 0"1'1 TI--l~ SoN 1--\A~ SO t'\""-N'f P..I..H-1'=--5, NO B\"TIN l1 ' '-Ri=.-t>ll!) I l--IE'S \<:.\<;_\<.\ N (.-:r I E. 'IF ('10\.H:r.\N{l' 
(01"\IN~ IN A.S A Ott l"\P.,UN U. :n...INICl~ .. .SU<-"'-ON Tl--ll"\1 (.1-\UMf'!> l-AST ON""-. STA.NPIN(:z 1-\1'>.$ 
e,es.,.-K\.1>. At...Ril>HT. 
\ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
WHYSO 
1 
ri 

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LESOO 
I I I 

tSNORPI ~A5Y TO AVOID
J r [) -~ 

1 
WITH A SUNNY DI5P051TION. 
www.jumble.com
tINGARD 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

IIJ I I 
A: 

A"[ I I I I ]"[ I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: GRAIN PAUSE NOODLE CHERUB Yesterday's 
Answer: Sounded like this to his girlfriend ­THE RUNAROUND 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 36 Fund for old 64 Baseball's 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Natasha Richardson, 42; Louis
age: Abbr. Musial

1 Swiss peaks 
Fanakhan, 72; Mort Sahl, 78; Jonathan Jackson, 23 37 One under one 65 Duos
5 Bit of dust 
Happy Birthday: Everything you do this year will make a difference to your
38 Bit of bridal 66 Gait between

10 It holds a bunch future. _Financial gains can be made, but only if you arc willing to do something 
attire walk and canter 

unique. If there is something you want, realize that you will have to light for it. 
14 Blood fluids 
39 Giant 67 Duck's home This can be a great year--but it will require effort on your part. Your numbers 15 Cather who 41 Catch_ (start 68 "Tiny Alice" are 5, 18, 27, 34. 36, 37 \Yrote "My to understand) playwright Antonia" Edward 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Traveling to a destination that is inspiring and 
42 Rationalization 

creative will get you moving in a whole new direction. Communicating with 16 Personal flair 44 Humble home 69 Diner sign people in the know or who have experience you lack will help you make a decision. **** • ·
17 Greeting for 45 Struggle for air 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The more you look hack at your goals and 
Julius DOWN
46 Cash in a 

aspirations from the past, the closer you will come to turning some of your19 In position, as a cache, e.g. 1 Fireplace dreams into a reality. Just because you may not he able to do exactly what you cornerstone 47 Fruit whose remnants had planned doesn't mean you can't be a part of that industry, organization or culture in some way. *** 
20 One who seeds are spit 2 'That's the 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Things arc heating up in your world. Stay calm 
out l.can do"proffers an arm 

and make the most of some good opportunities that are present. Plan some form 21 Destructive 49 Sand trap, for 3 Three for a of entertainment that will allow you to mix business with pleasure. A passionate beetles one dollar, e.g. evening is in order. *** 51 Following 4 Hairdresser's 
CANCER (June 21-.July 22): You'll be feeling a lillie restless today. Make some 23 Dictation taker changes to your surroundings. The more you can do to spruce up your living 
shop
56 Oscar winner 
space, the belter. ***

24 Number of for "Kramer Vs. 5 Big baseball hit 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This will be a hectic day. You will be involved in a
zodiac signs 

Kramer" 6 Cobbler wide variety of projects. It will take organization and patience to get everything 26 Words to live by 59 Star, in Paris 7 Raised railways done the way you want. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let things get to you today. Being overly 
28 Rand McNally 60 Org. that 
8 Mauled, as by a concerned about a problem you think you are having will cause the situation to
product defends 

bear escalate. Avoid being judgmental; listen and observe without taking over. ** individual rights LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll have some interesting ideas about your future 
32 24-hour 9 Capek who 
and how to make changes leading to a better life. Personal alterations will turn
conveniences, 61 Title song of a wrote "R.U.R." 32 Madison and 48 Archibald of the 55 Income for Fred 

out better than you expect. ***** 
for short Prince film Fifth, in N.Y.C. N.B.A. and Ethel Mertz
10 Mel Torme's 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): It's time to collect old debts and to clear up money sobriquet, with 33 What's read 56 Trunk closer matters. Once you start the ball rolling, you will feel much better about your 
50 Frank of the

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE "the" 34 Isinglass Mothers of future. A tighter budget or a solid investment will get you moving in the right 
57 Eight: Prefix
11 Jai direction. *** 
35 Illicit reserve Invention 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Just when you think you've ligured everything 
58 Sweet Spanish
12 Mast item 

37 Mad about out, something will happen that will change your mind. Love is prominent, but
52 Strong point dessert

13 Means justifiers, make sure you stick to one person. Spreading yourself around or leading someone
40"_Lang Syne" 

59 Otherwise on will come back to haunt you. *** 
some say 53 Queen's

43 Fraud CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your nose out of everyone else's business 
18 Relative of a headgear 62 Kid

47 Alternative to and you will do much better today. Arguments will not solve problems. Pushing 
gator 

your will on someone will lead to opposition. ***
automatic 54 Author T. S. 63 Before: Prefix 

22 Hoosier senator AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your generosity may be welcomed and Bayh appreciated, but it may leave you feeling cash-poor. ***** -· For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may have the discipline to get things done, 
24 Actress Garr 

but you are likely to cause ill feelings with someone if you go about things
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
25 This puzzle's without getting approval. ** 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
theme 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Birthday Baby: You are changeable, versatile and very interested in everything
27 Ceremony 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 and everyone. You are a good student and a wonderful teacher. You arc inquisitive,
29 Actress Turner 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). competitive and always looking for a challenge. 30 Kitchen pests Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 31 Cease solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City __________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Saturday, August 20, 2005 
page 36 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Talented freshmen expected to make major contribution 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
<-Brittany Bock, Carrie Dew and Kerri Inglis are not your typical freshmen. Though they have the usual first-year worries regarding roommates and classes, they also have a special challenge ­live up to the expectations that come with being freshmen on the pre-season No. 1 ranked and defending national champi­on Irish women's soccer team. Along with Rebecca Mendoza, who arrives Wednesday from a summer spent training with the Mexican national team, the girls make up a very strong fresh­man class. Though nine starters return for the defending national champion Irish, these four are expected to make major contri­butions to the team this fall. Notre Dame head coach Randy Waldrum raved about the com­bination of talent, experience and smarts that make this group of newcomers so special. "They came prepared to play," Waldrum said. "They look like 
see FRESHMEN/page 27 


Irish returnees look to repeat last season's national title in 2005 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 

When Irish forward Jill Krivacek's penalty kick sailed past UCLA goalie Valerie Henderson in last December's national cham­pionship game, Notre Dame reached a level of excel­lence that had not been attained since their NCAA title in 1995. However, just a year later, and a full off­season of reliving their magical season finis.hed, the Irish are ready to prove that there is no such thing as a grace period after a team wins a title. 
And for good reason. 

The Irish return a mature team that features eight seniors and eight juniors, including senior Erika Bohn who was the. winning goal­keeper in last year's cham­pionship game. Bohn also received the distinction of being the Final Four's most outstanding defensive play­er. Bohn was responsible for preserving a 1-1 tie with minutes remaining in regulation when she suc­cessfully saved a Kendel Billingsly penalty kick. 
see REPEAT/page 27 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Nevv faces in the back 
ing the nation's top defense.

Irish must replace 
Hellas, who missed the last 

three MLS draftees two seasons with injuries after a stellar freshman cam­paign, embraces that respon­
By KEVIN BRENNAN sibility.
Sports Writer 

"That's the big challenge for me -coming back and Dale Rellas has some big trying to get some of these shoes to fill. The senior cap­
younger tain defender of the Notre guys in Dame men's soccer team will the back be counted on to anchor an to get Irish defense that lost three organized of the nation's top players to and play graduation. well for 
Defense was the backbone the team," of the Notre Dame team in He I I as 2004. The Irish had a first Rellas said. team All-American goalkeep­Coach. er in Chris Sawyer, who the B o b b y Kansas City Wizards selected Clark must also find a com­with the 24th overall pick in petent sueeessor to Sawyer in January's MLS draft. goal. The Irish return two Defenders Jack Stewart and upperclassmen goalkeepers Kevin Goldthwaite also had with little experience 'in sen­outstanding years for the ior Justin Michaud and junior Irish in 2004 and were draft­Chris Cahill. Michaud played ed 1Oth and 17th overall, in three matches last yPar as respectively. The three stand­Sawyer's backup, while Cahill outs helped Notre Dame lead has not seen any gamp the country last season with action. The Irish also bring in a 0.45 goals against average. Andrew Quinn and Luke 
Notre Da,me now faces the monumental task of replae-.see NEW FACES/page 26 
Players adjusting to new schemes, system 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Charlie Weis' offense has won championships, and Irish quarterbacks eoach Peter Vaas is a former NFL Europe head coach. 
Though third-year quarter­back Brady Quinn must learn an entirely new system, his coaches have solid offensive track records. And that makes it logical for the main topic of conversation surrounding the 2005 Irish squad to be its offense. 
But just like the New England Patriots' defense con­sistently provided good field position and allowed few points, the Irish on the other side of the ball must compli­ment Weis' system with effi­ciency. 
Though the defense returns only three starters and will have less experience in terms or minutes logged. free safety 
FOOTBALL 
'Cover'ing up on defense 
Irish head coach Charlie Weis, left, consults with assistants Michael Haywood and Bernie Parmalee during practice earlier this week. Notre Dame opens its season Sept. 3 at Pittsburgh. 
Tom Zbikowski believes the defensive schemes being installed will stop opponents' air attacks that took Notre Dame out of many of its games in 2004. 
"[Our scheme] is a lot more based on coverage," Zbikowski said. "I think we get a lot more doubles on receivers just the way our coverages pan out. 
"It's not necessarily based on 'We're doubling this guy.' It just always turns out that we'll be doubling one or two guys and getting linebackers into coverage." 
There's not going to be too 
see WEIS/page 20 

MEN~S BASKETBALL
ND WOMEN'S XC 

MEN~S XC
NO VOllEYBAll 
SMC VOllEYBAll 
SMC SOCCER 
LLI 
c.:» Despite losing two Four uncommonly 
Experienced and hun-
The reunited Belles 

After a trip to the 2004 
Second year head z All-Americans, head 
mature freshmen 
gry, the Irish are poised 
, are chasing their first NCAA Championships, 

s 
coach Caryn Mackenzie coach Tim Connelly has 
worked over the sum-
for a breakthrough sea-
MIAA Championship. 

the Irish have set high hopes her Belles can
'" 
winning strategies. mer to give coach Mike son. goals. have a more balanced Brey plenty of options. 
2005 sesason. 
= 
c:c 
!;: 
page 33 page 33 
page 24 
page 22 page 21 page 21

en 
.,_ 





