-------------------------------~----------------------------------~-------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mqry's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 93 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17,2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Controversy swirls as Monologues begin at ND 
Ensler defends play, Students protest own views at panel pro-choice author 
By KATIE WAGNER By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writer News Editor 
A panel discussion fnatur­Carrying posters bnaring 
ing Vagina Monologues Biblo versos and bowing thnir au thor EVI~ Enslnr sparknd a heads in prayer, about 15 stu­lwatnd nxchangn lwtween thn dents gathen~d around th1~ audience and the playwright steps of South Dining Hall 
W1HI nesd ay. Wednesday to protest tho 
Approxirnatldy 200 people speaknr inside. gathernd at the Lnighton Vagina Monologues author Concert llall in tho DnBartolo Evo Ensler, schnduled to Performing Arts Centnr to appear as a luncheon guest, lwar Enslor, author of the bypassed the protesters and controvorsial play and cre­dedined thoir ol'l'or of a lnttor 
ator of "V-Ilay," the global Above, students from Bishop .John D'An:y movnnwnt to combat violence opposing the Monologues, said
protest Ensler. At

against wornnn. law studont Bncky Auston, ono Although this is the fourth of the protestors.
left, Ensler listens to
student porformancn of the Austin said she and soveral Vagina Monologues at Notre other studnnts asked the Fort
another panel member.
Damn, this is the first time Wayne-South Bend diocnse to l•:nsler has made a personal provide thnm eopios of D'Arcy's appnarance. stalnrnnnt to distributn. Tlw
•

Tlw four parwlists -panel statnment -the bishop's snc­
PHOTOS BY

modnrator and assistant pro­ond public disagnwnwnt with l'nssor· ol' Film, Tnl1wision and tho University within a wonk,
CLAIRE KELLEY
Tlwa tn r .I ossi ca Ch aim nrs, as he criticized thn Quonr Film assodatl' professor of English Fostival in a l!~tter on Feb. I 0 

AND RICHARD
c;Jpnn llnndler. associate pro -diseountnd academic l'rnn-

FRIEDMAN 

see ENSLER/page 4 see PROTEST/page 4 

Preacher serves as sexual assault advisor for students 
As assistant dean and resource person for victims, she provides previously-lacking support, confidentiality 
the College of' Arts and During her time at this post, explained that it is the vie­A fnw years ago, tho 
By KATIE LAIRD Letters, administrator for the Preacher said, she's realized tim's choice to decide what University l'orrnod a sexual 
News Writer department that such crimes are more steps to take. assault advisory committee 
of' film. tole­prevalent than most realize. Preacher's position us assis­that recoived student l'ond­
As thn University continues vision and "(Snxual assault[ happens tant dean -with students baek about how soxual to raise awarnrwss of sexual theatre and much more than it's report­constantly in and out of' hnr assault eases were handled assault ineidents on campus, pro-law ed," Preachor said. ofl'ice to discuss grades, class­on campus, Preacher said. Ava Preacher is gnlling advisor, As a resource person for es and other matters -.0 n e n x a rn pI o, s h n said , involvPd to ensure that stu­Preacher is victims, Preacher plays an makes her ideal for victims to involved a young man who d n n t s h a v n tlw p r o p e r the sexual informative role. When stu­talk to and remain anony­was dismissed l'rorn tho rnsourens to turn to in easo of assault dents come to her, they mous. University al'ter assaulting a an assault. resource explain what happened and "I was chosen because very l'nrnaln student. Tho commit­
In addition to lwr numerous person -a ask her what their options few quostions are asked," tee discovered tho eurrnnt positions at Notrn Damn position about which she are. Preacher emphasized the Preacher said. "The students including assistant dnan of' speaks yery passionately. strict eonl'identiulity and have access to me." see PREACHER/page 4 
SENATE 

File sharing, bookstore discounts dominate discussion 
on campus -though this Senators said the overriding
By AMANDA MICHAELS limn he wanted to hear what opinion of the students they 
As~istam News Editor the dorms had to say about talked to was that current fiiP 
tho program. sharing avenues (though ille­
Tho Commiltno on An allnrnative to Napster, gall were acceptable sourcos, l!nsidmJcn l.il'1~ 11'<1 tho majori-_ Huckus would provide Notre but that a few seemed open to ty of tlw discussion during flame students with music, tho option. Wodrwsday night's student selnet movies and campus "Thnrn are a lot of poople Snnalo mooting, gathnring lncturn downloads for a cost that will just [download filosl I'Pedback on possible t'ilo of' $6 per month. the illegal way, but you could sharing programs and book­Tho drawbacks to the pro­find 1,000 seared onough to st.on~ discount options. gram. besidns its monthly want to do it legally," 
Co 111111 i tln~~ Jill' m bn r Br n n­cost, inc.ludn llw fne chargnd Stnphanie Pelligra, Welsh dan Mrllugh rovivnd tlw sub­for evnry song downloadod Family Sl~ruttor. said. jnd of l!urkus NPtwork-tlw from Huekus and burned onto Senators also said the l'ill' sharing snrvil~~~ intro­a CD or transl'nrrnd to an monthly raln and nxtra trans­durl'd to snnators last week rn p:{ pIayn r an d t h n 1 , 0 0 0-for l'oo -nspeeially if buill as a possibility for legal studm1l usor minimum for tlw Senators talk about different music file sharing options at music and movif' downloads· snrvieo to b.o installnd. see SENATE/page 4 Wednesday's meeting. 
• t • ' 
•,. I' 
·' 



page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, February 17, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Thou shalt not steal • • • art? 

My last year at Notre Dame as a budding artist and photographer has been filled with the task of attempting to organize more stu­dent art exhibitions on campus. My latest exhibition is "The Juggler Chuy Benitez Show" in Reekers. It is a collabora­tion of the freshest Associate Photo work out of Riley Editor Hall, and is both insightful and controversial with the inclusion of a politically charged silkscreen by Meeghan Conroy. 
Now, even if you have viewed the show recently, you might be asking, · "What political silkscreen?" Well, I would point it out to you, but much_ to the surprise of everyone, the silkscreen was actually stolen from Heckers the weekend after it was put up. 
Oddly, my reaction to the stolen art did not include starting a cam­pus-wide search and walking around campus with a bloodhound. I was actually flattered that some­one was moved enough by the show to want to steal a piece. In my mind. you cannot flatter an artist more than by stealing their work, and that is simply because it means that the art struck a chord in that person so greatly that he had to steal it. 
Meeghan was a little surprised, but soon she also realized that she had struck a chord in someone's mind, and in the end her work was successful. As word spread that her work was missing, young artists gasped and older artists couldn't help but be a little jealous. 
Hight now you may be thinking, "So this is why artists are stereo­typically poor . . . they LOVE to have their art stolen!" Well, the truth is that we prefer to hoid onto our work and not have the fruit of our hard labor stolen, but theft is out of our hands and when it hap­pens we just have to think opti­mistically. 
Coming back to Meeghan's silkscreen, it was a political com­mentary on our now president, oi'Dubya, and on a campus like Notre Dame's we knew that there would be people who would not agree with Meeghan's message. But did they steal it because they hated it, or did they lo.ve it? In the end, we eould not decide which motiva­tion would be more interesting, but one thing that I ean tell you is that this will not keep you from seeing the work yourself. After all, the purpose of the show was to pre­view work in the up-and-coming issue of the Juggler. So when the Juggler does eome out in the next week or so, pick up a copy, find Meeghan's piece, and ponder, "Who would steal this?" 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Contact Chuy Benitez at jbenitez@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, the word "eminent" was used incorrectly in a headline on the front page of the Feb. 16 edition ofThe Observer. The word "imminent" should have appeared in its place. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE THING TO MAKE IN THE DINING HALL? 


A.J. Andrassy Douglas Vranderic Katie Doyle Peter Vranderic Reece Doughty Tyler Lenz 
senior freshman sophomore junior ' freshman senior off-campus Zahm McCandless O'Neill St. Ed's Keenan 
"Lauren King's "Moves on the "Stir-fry or any-"A liter ofcola. " "Quesadillas." "Mashed 





specialty  ladies."  thing that isn't  
salads."  Saint Mary's  
food."  


Woman overstays hospital stay by a year 

More than a year after Sarah Nome was deemed healthy and given her dis­charge papers, the 82-year­old woman stubbornly refuses to leave her hospital bed. 
Nome admits there is no reason she should be raek­ing up unpaid medieal bills -whieh -have now topped $1 million -but says she has nowhere else to turn. 
Now Kaiser Permanente's San Rafael Medical Center in California is suing her for the cost of her stay and try­ing to show her the door. 
"The thing is, I have no medical problem. I've been here more than a year, never had any medication, never had any treatment, never had a fever, have a perfect heart, blood pres­sure is like a teenager," Nome said in a telephone interview from the hospital north of San Francisco. "It isn't that I'm not ready to go. I just have nowhere to go." Dog helps bust owner on marijuana charge 
GRAPEVINE, Texas ­The owner of J.D. the Labrador may be wishing his dog weren't such a good retriever. Matthew Porter and two friends were play­ing Frisbee golf in a park Monday when a poliee ofli­cer who thought he smelled burning marijuana began questioning them. 
As the officer was eheck­ing for outstanding war­rants, J.D. waded into a nearby creek and emerged with a plastic bag containing the drug. 
Porter, 25, was eharged with possessing drug para­phernalia. Micah Hays, 24, was charged with marijuana possession. J.D. was turned over to the third person at the park, who faees no eharges. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

potatoes volcano. " 
IN BRIEF 
Ron Koperski from Bradley University will be giving a lee­turn on "Sports and the Media: Arr Examination of the Ethical Elements" at 12:30 p.m. today in the Giovanni Commons in Mendoza. The lecture is part of the Mendoza College of Business' Ethics Week. 
Former WWE superstar and ae'elaimed author Miek Foley will present "An Evening With Miek Foley" Thursday as part of the 2005 Notre Dame Literary Festival. The presentation will begin at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
. Father Joseph Komonchak from the Catholic University of America will be giving a lecture entitled "Vatican II: Historieal Relevance for 21st Century Believers" at 7:30 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall at Sairit ·Mary's on Thursday. The lecture is spon­sored by the Center for Spirituality. 
The Nanovie Institute for European Studies will be spon­soring the 2002 Irish film "Bloody Sunday" as a part of its "European Cinemas, European Histories" series. The film will be shown at 10 p.m. at ND Cinema in the Performing Arts Center. 
Ed Miller, the chief national correspondent for "Ameriea's Most Wanted,"will give a leeture entitled "Reenactment, Production, and Editing Processes" from 1 to 2:30 p.m. in room B043 of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 


35 35 22 20 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0: 
1.&.1 
X 
!c;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
..... 
c( 
(,) 





0 

HIGH 25 HIGH HIGH HIGH
..I 

LOW 15 LOW LOW LOW 
15 10 
30 22 
33 24 

Atlanta 55 I 32 Boston 38 I 22 Chicago 28 I 14 Denver 46 I 21 Houston 60 I 48 Los Angeles 66 I 54 Minneapolis 20 I 10 New York 41 I 26 Philadelphia 43 I 25 Phoenix 73 I 55 Seattle 52 I 34 St. Louis 46 I 22 Tampa 74 I 52 Washington 48 I 26 
••• 1 f 
•. 

Thursday, February 17, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Questionable 1neat is allovved into the U.S. 
Associated Press 
Tlw i\gril:ulturP l>npartnwnt allowed Canada to ship 42,000 pounds of qtwstionable meat into tlw Unitnd States despite restrictions in place sinee the discovnry of mad cow disease in Canada, dnpartmnnt invnsti-­gators said Wndrwsday. 
Tlw investigation n~sultnd from a fednral judgo's ruling last April prnvPnting tho dnparl.nwnl. from nxpanding Canadian lwPI' imports. 
TIW agl~ncy's inSpPctor gorwr­al faulted agril:ull.urn oflieials for allowing morn kinds or beginning March 7, despite the discovery of' two new cases of mad cow disease last month. 
Mad cow disease, the com­mon namn ror bovine spongi­rorm encephalopathy, is thought to pose less or a risk to younger animals. A form of BSH, variant Creutzl'eldt-Jakob diseasn, can infect humans who oat contaminated meat. 
The <~attlemen's group that won last year's ruling said the report bolstered its ease. The group is suing again to block tlw oxpansion of tradn with Canada. Attornoys general from Montana, North Dakota, 

Canadian nwat  "We simply do not know  Conneetieut,  
products into tlw United Statns bnl'orn  how widespread the disease is in  Nevada, New Mexico, South Dakota and  
tlu• judgo's rul­ Canada yet."  West Virginia  
ing. Such "per­ have filed legal  
mit crnep" IPL in produr.ts that were at  Bill Bullard chief executive officer  papers in sup­port. "Those issues  
gn~atPr  risk for.  R-CALF United  need  to  be  
the d iS(HlS(l, the  Stockgrowers of America  completely  


n~port said. 
"Tiwrp was reduced assuranen that Canadian beef' nnl.ering the United States was low-risk," tlw inspeetor gnrwral found. "Sonw product with qunstion­abln eligibility, as dnseribed above, entornd U.S. eom­nwrce." 
i\griculturn of'fieials are plan­ning to allow imports or live cattle under :{0 months or age 
resolved and 
corrected bnfon~ the United States takes tho leap of exposing the U.S. cattln industry to produds from a country where BSE is known to exist," said Bill Bullard, chief executive officer of H-CALF United Stoekgrow_ers of America. 
"We simply do not know how widnspread the disease is in Canada yet," Bullard said. 

Panel discusses tnedia ethics 
Mendoza College ofBusiness sponsors forum with three local experts 
By TRICIA DeGROOT News Writer 
The Mendoza College of Business has designated this week "Time out for Ethics" in the hopes of encouraging dis­cussion of moral matters among faculty and students both in and out of the elass­room. 
Each session has facilitated discussion on difl'erent ethical matters, including Wednesday's forum, "Ethics and the Media." The discus­sion was moderated by David Ilayes of the Mendoza College of Business' Gigot Center and featured Jim Behling, the president of WNDU-TV, John Dille, the president of Federated Media and Tim !Iarmon, the managing editor of the South Bend Tribune. 
Bohling began the discussion by addressing the lengths to which shows such as "Good Morning America" and the "Today Show" go in order to land a good interview. lie then raised the question of whether this activity could be consid­ered exploitive or ethical. "Utilizing and praying upon the emotions of victims of tragedies is something we hear about all the time," Behling said, but he ques­tioned whether exploiting and taking advantage of thn griev­ing in order to get the key interview could be considered ethical behavior. 
Harmon followed Behling's discussion and brought light to ethical matters that newspa­pers face. He spoke of how the media has beeome more pow­erful in recent years as a result of pressure. According to him, newspapers become better, more responsible, more inclusive and more responsive teams, but that these positive implementations do not neces­
sarily overshad­ow some of the negative atten­tion the media receives. 
According to Harmon, people don't trust the media like they used to beeausn it has become too nxpansivn. Harmon used a cover of The Globe Tabloid, which calls attention to the 
"Utilizing and praying upon the emotions ofvictims oftragedies is something we hear about all the time." 
Jim Behling president WNDU-TV 
Kobe Bryant case, to illustrate an example of sensational media, with which main­stream media is grouped. 
"Mainstream media has jumped in with the worst of them," said Harmon. 
Harmon brought up some examples of what he referred to as a series of disasters in thl+ media, calling attention to Pulitzer Prize winnnr Hick Bragg and Dan Hather of thn CBS tnam. lie said that his company has st.nlssnd valuns sueh as truth. ;u:r.uraey, eon­sistBney and fairness in tlw workplace. 
Dille ended the forum by discussing regulation and questioning. 
lie citnd two stories adher­ing to regulation and conclud­ed with rneent government aetion as a result of tlw .Jannt. 
Jackson ineidnnt at last ynar's Super Bowl. As a rnsult of this nvnnt, Dilln pro­diets tho govnrn­mnnt will inernasn !inns for such offot1sns. Dilln eallnd into question, though, tho nthic.al naturn of inernasing !'inns without ddining thn of'fnnse. 
Tlw panni was 

thnn opnnnd up for qtwstions. 
"Sports and tho Mnclia: i\n Examination of thn Ethical Elements," will eoneludn this year's business dhies wonk tomorrow in thn Giovanni Commons. 
Contact Tricia deGroot at pdegroot@nd.edu 
Want to write·for News? 
Call Claire at 1-5323. 
Please join us for a Junior Parents Reception in the ACE otl'ice 2:00-4:00 pm. on Friday, February 18 
It'II be a Rreat opportunity to discu:•is the possibility o_lpost-,gradu.ate service! 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, Feburary 17, 2005 
Preacher 
continued from page 1 
system wasn't working very well because the young 
woman felt that 
she had no one 
to turn to. 
As a result. the committee worked togeth­er to set up ways to define sexual assault and to provide someone the students could ·come to with­out facing repercussions. Preacher's 
Dame and Saint Mary's spon­sored the formation of an organization called Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination, for which Preacher serves as the facul­ty advisor. The organization 
"/ think they feel more comfortable coming to me than someone who doesn't interact with students." 
Ava Preacher sexual assault resource person 

position serves this purpose. 
"Students can come in whenever ... I think they feel more comfortable coming to me than someone who does­n't interact with students," Preacher said. 
In addition, the Notre 
lates the truth about women; the truth about sexuality; the truth about male and female; and the truth about the human body. It is in opposition to the highest understanding of academic freedom ... A Catholic university seeks truth." 
The bishop said he had pri­vately exchanged letters with University President Father Edward Malloy about the Monologues but now felt obli­gated to express his thoughts publicly. 
University spokesman Matt Storin issued a statement that deelined to specifically respond to D' Arcy. 
"We appreciate the Bishop's point of view, but we have no additional comment," Sturin said. 
Senior Lauren Galgano, president of Notre Dame Right to Life, said she used a listserv to ask other members of the club to participate in the lunchtime demonstration, but that she personally obtained a permit to protest Ensler. 
"From a Right to Life per­spective, it's the fact that she is an outspoken pro-abortion activist," Galgano said. "By inviting her, the University implicitly condones her legiti­macy as a speaker." 
Ensler's pro-choice reputa­tion discounts the Monologues' aim to fight violence against women, Galgano said. 
"We don't feel that [the play] upholds the dignity of women," she said. "Abortion is a form of violence against women as well. ... We don't think this is a constructive way of dealing with the prob-
sponsors a long series of events in the spring in order to perpetuate under­standing and aware­ness of this 
week­

cia! in making sure that the issues remain in people's minds." 
Sexual assault is becoming a major national and inter­national issue, according to Preacher, and she hopes to 
create even 
"/think the University has made a major effort to protect students." 
issue. A 

Ava Preacher
major event of the week sexual assault is a march resource person 
c a I l e d "Take Back 
the Night," calling attention to the fact that women should be able to safely walk home at night. 
"I think the University has made a major effort to pro­tect students," Preacher said. " ... CARE has been cru­
!em, and it's definitely not a Catholic way." 

Protest 
The protesters said a rosary with their "Chant prayer not

continued from page 1 
profanity" and "Eve Ensler is 
dom as a rationale for Notre anti-Catholic" signs in hand. Dame to host the controversial The religious element of the and explicit play. protest was intended to 
"Freedom in the Catholic encourage passersby to rl'lcon­tradition, and even in the sider the mission of Notre American politi-Dame, law stu­cal tradition, is dent and for­not the right to mer Right to
"/think ifwe're
do anything," Life president 
D'Arcy's state-going to be viewed J a n e I ment read. as a learning Daufenbach "!Pope John said.
environment, we
Paul II] indicates "This is a
should allow all 
eertain parame­Catholic univer­ters relative to artistic expression." sity, so I think freedom; name­that God should ly, truth and the be involved,"
Amanda Deckelman 

common good. she said. 
freshman

This play vio­Not all stu­
dents were con­vinced. 
"I just think that [the pro­testers] are misrepresenting why [Ensler] is here -and 
more awareness among the student body. "I think we need to refine our processes here. We need to have a follow-up where we go to the dorms ... and meet in a small group format to spread 

awareness," Preacher said. "We need people to be aware at the local level and protect our students." · 
Contact Ka:tie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 
pro-choice doesn't necessarily mean pro-abortion," freshman· Amanda Deckelman said. "I think if we're going to be viewed as a learning environ­ment, we should allow all artistic expression." 
Erin Horan, also a freshman, agreed that the protesters had misconstrued the Monologues' purpose. 
"A lot of it is also about rape and violence about women, which I don't think has any­thing to do with pro-choice or pro-life," Horan said. 
Junior Andrew Crowe just called the protest "a waste of time." 
Following the protest, sever­al members of the group proeessed to the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, where Ensler participat­ed in a panel discussion. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
into the tuition bill, as was briefly suggested -were major turn-offs for their con­stituents. 
"From what I gathered, stu­dents think iTunes is just as good," Megan Canavan, Lyons senator, said. "It's got all the songs in the store, without [Ruckus'] monthly fee." 
Next from the Committee on diversity problems discussed in the February report. Covering the same topics as last time, but aiming at sug­gestions for policy-fixes, the group on racism will be held on Feb. 20, heterosexism on Feb. 21 and sexism on Feb. 27, all at 8 p.m. in the stu­dent government office in 203 LaFortune. 
+ Siegfried senator James Leito discussed options for changing the student govern­ment eleetion schedule to give the outgoing leaders 

Residence Life came an • more of a chance to wrap up update on attempts to secure their terms and the newly­an automatic bookstore dis­elected more time to prepare count for students, before taking like the faculty office. Debate currently enjoys. "From what I ended without a 
"Basically, from gathered, conclusion. talking to [the + Leito also said
students think 
bookstore I. we're he was eontacted not going to be iTunes is just as by associate ath­able to do the 24/7 good." letic director John discount," Sarah Heisler about the Bates, committee "Welcome Weis"
Megan Canavan 
chair, said. tour Leito and his Bates did say the Lyons senator running mate 
committee will continue to work with the bookstore to secure monthly discounts and to make it a more prominent presence on campus. She asked that senators gather feedback on these options from their hall residents. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Chief executive assistant and student body president­elect Dave Baron announced the days and times for three focus groups. The informa­tion from these groups will influence April's Board of Trustees report, which will focus on solutions to the 
J o r d a n 
Bongiovanni pushed during their recent eampaign for student body president and vice president. Leito said that Weis unex­pectedly expressed the desire to start the tour as soon as· next week. Though no details are solidified as of yet, Leito said the rough plan entails Weis visiting a brother-sister dorm group from 10 to 11 
p.m. on Mondays through Thursdays until he covers all the residence halls. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
~lJN!VERSIT'fOF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Officr uflnform~tion Technolo;:le!i. 
... 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 17, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pakistan-India peace talks pay off 
SIAMABAD, Pakistan-Morn than a year of pt~aen talks betwmm Pakistan and India bore fruit Wndnesday, with th1~ two sides a1,rreeing to start thn first-ever bus serviee betwmm thn eapi­tals of dividnd Kashmir. 
Tho bus servien along a rutted mountain road in thn lillds of the llimalayas will reeonnect fam­ilins snparatnd liw dncadns by the Pakistani and Indian armies. It also raises hopes that tho nudtHtr-armed neighbors who have fought thre1~ wars since gaining independence from Britain in 194 7 might one day lind a permanent 
pt~aen. 
Service between Muzzafarabad on the Pakistani side and Srinigar on the Indian side will start April 7, aceording to a joint statement rPad out during a visit by Indian External Affairs MinistPr Nat war Singh. 
Pakistani Foreign Ministnr Khursheed Kasuri said tntvnl would bn grantnd through an "entry 1wrmit system" -rather than a passport­oru~e thn identities of travders are verified. 
Fears arise in wake of explosion 
THIII!J\N, Iran-An explosion in a southern dty prompted instant fears Wednnsday of a mis­sile attark in an arna whnn~ Iran has a nudmtr litdlity. and Iranian authorities gave conflicting explanations for thn blast -induding Iranian friendly lim in a military area and eonstrudion work. 
Tlw explosion earnn hours allnr the eountry's intnlligtmen dtiol' 1~onlirmod U.S. drones have bnen flying ovnr Iran for months to spy on nudt~ar and military l'adlilins. 
U.S. and lsranli ollidals denied involvement with tlw blast. but it spiknd oil priees and shownd how jittery the world is that growing intornational pressure would lnad to an attaek on Iran. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Small jet crashes, killing eight 
PUimi.O, Colo. -A small jet owned by elee­tronks retailer Cireuit City era'ihed in freezing drizzh~ Wedrwsday as it approachnd the Pueblo airport, killing all eight people aboard, induding four company employees. 
Two witnesses told invostigators they heard loud popping noises from tho twin-jet Cessna Citation C-5h0 shortly bnlilrn the crash at about 9 lt.rll., Pueblo County Sherill' Dan Corsentino said. The cause of the crash WIL'i unknown. 
"I don't have any idt~a why it went down. It is just an unliJrtunatn thing," sherill"s spoknsman Steve Bryant said. A National Transportation Safety Board ollkial was at the st~ene and a learn or invnstigators was expeetnd to arrive lat«~ Wednesday. 
Senator has Hodgkin's disease 
WASIIINGI'ON -Senat1~ Judiciary Chairman Arlen Spm:tnr. H-l'a., announced Wndrwsday that lw has Hodgkin's disoasn but nxpects to t·ontimlP to work in thn Snnate while being trnatP<l. 
"I haw beaten a brain tumor, bypass heart. surgnry and many tough political opponents and I'm going to beat this, too," Spnetnr said in a statnrrwnl. 
llodgkirr's disn<L'>n is a type of cancer involving thn lymph nodes. Spnctnr will n~ceive chnmotlwrapy twnry two W<·~eks for up to 32 wonks at. tlw Abramson Cancer Center at the Univmsity of' Pmmsylvania in Philadelphia, a rnlnasn from his ollice said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Daylight-savings bill goes to House 
INDIANAPOLIS -A bill that would mandate that all of Indiana observn daylight-savings time advann~d to the full llousn on a party-line eom­mittne votn Wednesday, and some Hepublican supportnrs said Dmnoeral'> were making it a par­tisan issun and eould kill il'i chanens or dearing that dmrnber. 
Ht~publieans control the House 52-48, but Hnpuhlican Hop. Jerry Torr of Carmel, tho. bill's author. said he doubted lw could get 51 GOP votos to pass tho bill and sond it to tho Senate. That nwans he would need at least some I >ornocrat vot.os, and he suggested that. partisan politics might pmvent that. 
Officials warn of new threats 
Bush's top intelligence and military personnel say terrorists are reorganizing 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON-Speaking 
with one voice, President 
Bush's top intelligence and 
military offieials said 
Wednesday that terrorists 
are regrouping for possible 
new strikes against the 
United States. 

They said the best defense was for Congress to approve the president's mil­itary and anti-terror budg­et. But some in Congress, ineluding prominent Hopublicans, were ques­tioning some of that spend­ing. 
Offering few speei!ics on terror threats, Defense Soeretary Donald II. Humsfeld told a llouse hearing that the govern­ment. could reasonably pre­diet attacks would como from terrorism, weapons of mass destruction and other mnans. 
Meanwhile, now CIA Director Porter Goss told tho Senate Intelligence Committee the Iraq war was giving terrorists experi­ence and contacts for future attacks, and FBI Director Hobert Mueller expressed worry that a sleeper opera­tive in the U.S. may have been in place for years, awaiting orders for an attack. _ 
"I remain very concerned about what we arn not see­ing,". Mueller said in tinning billions in foreign eneompassing al-Qaida and pool of contacts to build remarks he submitted to aid and State Department likn-minded associates. transnational t111-rorist coils, the senators. spending that Bush request­Goss said ai-Qaida groups and networks," Goss 
Humsfeld told the !louse ed in an emergency bill this remains intent on circum­said. Armed Services Committee week. venting U.S. security meas­Even as terrorism that the proposed $419 bil­DeLay, R-Texas, said ures and attaeking the rnmainnd at thn fordront, lion defense package for some of Bush's foreign aid United States. snnior diplomatie and intnl­2006 would set an ambi­proposals "probably do not "It may be only a matter ligenee oflkials outlinnd a tious course to "continue qualify" for the expedited of time before al-Qaida or number of countrit!s that prosecuting the war and to treatment he's seeking. other groups attempt to use pose convmttional diplomat­attack its ideological under­The current congressional chemical, biological, radio­ic, military and intnllignncn pinnings." debate over how to allocate logical or nuelear problems to tho Unitnd 
Yet. the Hepubliean-con­billions of dollars on initia­weapons," Goss said at. the Statns. trolled Congress may exer­tives aimed at spreading Senate Intelligence Goss said North Korea cise its considerable author­peace and ensuring security Committee's annual hearing continues to "dnv1~lop, pro­ity over federal spending follows throe years or mas­on throats. duen, deploy and snll ballis­and reject White llouse sive spending in response to In his first testimony as tie missilns or incrnasing requests to simply sign the thn attacks of Sept. 11, CIA chief, Goss said the Iraq rangn and sophistic.at.ion." checks. 2001. conflict has become a cause lin said tlw seerelive 
llouse Majority Leader Senior administration offi­for extremists. regime t·.ould "at any tinw" Tom DeLay and Hop. Jerry cials appearing at a series "Those jihadists who sur­resume flight tnsting of a Lewis, H-Calif., the new of congressional hearings vive will lt~ave Iraq experi­long-rangn missilo capabln chairman of the House Wednesday described a encod in and focused on of roaching thn Unitnd Appropriations Committee, Muslim extrnmist threat acts of urban terrorism. States with a nuelear pay­said lawmakers were ques-that's become more diffuse, They represent a potential load. 

SOUTH KOREA 

North Korea celebrates Jong's birth 
staying away from international nudear our Grnat Leader Kim .long II, who is 
Associated Press 

talks where the United States, China, undefimtable." 
SEOUL -North Korea marked the Japan, Russia and South Korea have The dispatch was alluding to a popu­birthday of lnador Kim Jong II amid urged it to abandon its nudear ambi­lar North Korean folk tale and 'IV ani­heightened nueloar tensions on tions. mation where a porcupine defeats a Wednesday, comparing Kim to a daring The announcement. wa'i a key theme tiger by sticking il'i quills in the tiger's porcupine routing an arrogant United in North Korea's celebration of Kim's nose. States that swaggers like a tiger. birthday this year, with its state-eon­To tho oul'iide world, the North's lat­
But South Korea dampened tho trolled media claiming that last week's est maneuver further isolated the Pyonh'Yang's festive mood, saying there "bombshell" declaration demonstrated impoverished country. will be no large-scale economic cooper­Kim's "incomparable courage." Kim "North Korea must return to six-party ation until the dispute over the commu­turned 63 Wednesday. talks a'> soon as possible," South Korean nist North's nudear weapons programs "The Americans swagger like a tiger President Hoh Moo-hyun told a meeting is resolved. around the world, but they whimper of his top security ministers Wednesday. 
North Korea flouted tho international before our Hepublie as the tiger does "II' North Korna ha'i anything to allege, community last Thursday by announc­bol'oro the porcupine," Pyongyang it should make tho allngations at tho ing it. had nuclear weapons and was Radio said. "That's because we have negotiating t<tbln." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 17, 2005 
share it." type of Catholic example," sciousness-raising style per­Catholic girls about their According to Ensler, a lot of Steele said. formances." vaginas, she said in a press
Ensler 

the terrible acts that happen One audience member "Performance is usually conference following the dis­
continued from page 1 

fessor of history Gail Bederman and Ensler ­offered varying opinions on the play; for her part, Ensler addressed the healing power 
to women result from a lack of knowledge about their bod­ies. Most of the female rape victims she has interviewed, she said, had never before spoken about their incidents, due to the constraints their Judeo-Christian traditions place on 

of the 
"/ don't think that them.

Monologues. "We have a Following the there is any choice now to keep panel, Ensler ourselves blind ...
woman on this 

opened the or to live in the
planet that has

floor for ques­dangerous, messy, tions of stu­had an abortion uncomfortable dents, faculty and felt good about world of the truth," and local resi­said Ensler. "I
it. " 

dents. would argue that 
One pro-life the way violence activist said Eve Ensler happens is because that abortion playwright people don't talk 
was the most widespread act of women's violence and com­plained about Ensler's failure to include a monologue about this topic. Ensler responded that she believes being forced to carry a child that resulted from a rape is an act of vio­lence. 
"I dori't think that there is any woman on this planet that has had an abortion and felt good about it," she said. ''I'm here to talk about vio­lence against women. It's not that I don't honor [the pro­life] perspective-I just don't about things." 
Morrissey rector Father J. Steele was disap­pointed with the decision by the Film, Television and Theatre department -which, along with the English department and the gender studies program, is sponsor­ing the Monologues and Ensler's visit-to incorporate a female's cathartic prayer experience in the play's on­campus performance. 
"I wonder if there's not some way in which the FTT department would explore that, at least including some 


/let Aca/t1f 5:00pm Monday Feb. 21 
At 5pm, get the ins1de scoop on diet-myths, learn the role supplements can play in your over-all health, uncover the truth about natural hormone balancing creams. And, enter to win fantastic products! 
~6eaatj/ld7:00pm Monday Feb. 21 At 7pm, get information on anti-aging skin care, find out what the big-deal is about Swiss skin care and all natural cosmetics, try an exclusive line of skin care and see the results on your skin! And, enter to win fantastic anti-aging products! 

claimed that the women in done by amateurs, so are the the Monologues did not have Vagina Monologues, so the personalities, but were only focus is on the context, not on described in terms of their the actors' abilities," she said. sexuality. Others accused Hendler, who formerly Ensler of objectifying women served as chairman of the in the text, which Ensler said gender relations department, she "take[sI real issue with." discussed the 
"The vagina is the focal Vagina Monologues 
According to Ensler, things." observing a perform­
Eve Ensler 
ance of the 
playwright
Vagina Monologues "can make you feel more con­nected to a woman than you ever will be in your life." 
The other panelists addressed the Monologues' relationship to academics, spirituality and politics. 
Chalmers hesitated a bit before sharing her thoughts on the Monologues, finally describing them as "con­
cussion,. Panel moderator Chalmers endorsed the discussion that 
the  performance  of  the  
Monologues  on  campus  
inspired.  

"If something is controver­

point to as literary 
"If something is 
which this works, com­story is "/ would argue paring them controversial, its told," she to the con­better to bring it 
that the way 
said. "It troversial 
up and talk about isn't just violence happens is texts that he it. We don't hope 
about vagi­because people has the "aca­nas." demic free­for resolution. We
don't talk about 
dom" to 

hope for dialogue. " 
assign to his students. 

Jessica Chalmers 
" T h e 

University panel moderator trusts us as faculty mem­
sial, it's better to bring it up and talk about it," Chalmers said. "We don't hope for resolution. We hope for dia­logue." 
Although Notre Dame is one of only six schools that strongly oppose the Monologues, according to 

bers ... trust has to be Ensler, she said that she extended to the students," appreciates "just the fact that Hendler said. this discussion is happening 
Bederman provided insight [at Notre Dame]." into the Catholic views on "I really respect everyone sexuality and how she feels who [asked questions] today," these views conflict with the she said. Monologues. 
The dialogue-Ensler gener­ated at Notre Dame gave her Contact Katie Wagner at a new idea to interview kwagner@nd.edu 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
Friday, February 18,2005 7:30p.m. 
Fleur de Lys 

Disembodied Voices: Music ofWomen in Seventeenth-Century Italian Convents and Academies 
Danielle Svonavec, soprano Mary Anne Ballard, viola da gamba Darlene Catello, harpsichord 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts Admission $10; faculty/staff $8; seniors $6; students $3 Call574-631-2800 for tickets 
Saturday, February 19, 2005 2:30p.m. 
The Notre Dame Bands & Jazz Band 
Ken Dye and Larry Dwyer, Directors 
Judd & Mary Lou Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts Free and open to the public; tickets required Call574-631-2800 for tickets 
Sunday, February 20, 2005 2:00p.m. 
EthanHaimo uHow to Listen to Scriabin's Sixth Sonata" 
A Notre Dame Faculty LectureI Recital Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art Free and open to the public; no tickets required 

$10 for ND students, includes ticket to the game, transportation, and food on the bus. Call 631-8393 for details and to sign up. '-~/'i'~ iW Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for the latest promotional information ~ 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Thursday, February 17, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,834.88 -2.44

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,711 174 .Yl' 1,482,342,272 

AMEX 1.493.20 -8.91 NASDAQ 2.mn.43 -1.78 NYSE 7,306.76 +2.80 S&P 500 I ,210.34 +0.22 NIKK£1(Tol<yo) I I ,60 I .68 0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,053.20 -5.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.35 -0.33 24.14 NASDAQ I OOTRSERI(QQQQ). -0.37 -0.14 37.98 JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU) -5.45 -0.11 1.91 APPLIED MAT(AMAT) +0.06 +0.01 17.50 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.54 -0.14 25.79 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.91 +0.41 45.22 I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.46 +0.60 41.58 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.97 +0.73 37.82 3-MONTH BILL -0.20 -0.05 25.27 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.09 48.86 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.40 426.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.18 85.95 . 
fxcha Rates 

YEN 105.5100 EURO 0.7676 POUND 0.5306 
.. 

CANADIAN$ 1.2364 
IN BRIEF 
fTC approves MGM Mirage merger 
I.AS VEC;As -The Federal Trade Commission on Wndnnsday approvnd let­ting MGM Miragn buy rival Mandalay Hnsorl. c;roup, c~rnating one ol' tho largest gambling eompanins in the world and giv­ing thn casino opnrator control of 12 rnsorts on tlw l'amnd l.as Vngas Strip. 
Tlw commission votPd 5-0 to dose Hs invnstigation and put no conditions on the transaction. a spokesman with thn FTC told Tho AssodatPd l'rnss. 
MGM Mirage still nnnds Nevada and otlwr stal.n gambling rngulal.ors to approve the hloekhustc1r dna!, which exocutives expnr.t will c·.omn soon. 
In .lurw. MGM Miragn agreed to purchase Mandalay l'or $4.H billion in eash, $2.5 bil­l ion in dPht and $600 million convnrtible dnhnntures. Tlw company has alrnady sncun1d financing for the merger. 
Louisiana judge to hear Vioxx case 
Tlli~NTON. N.J.-Federal lawsuits ;tllng­ing thn hlor.kbuster arthritis drug Vioxx hurt patients will bn transferred to a Louisiana judge who will handle all ol' the pr11trial procnndings. .. 
A panni of federal judges on Wednesday assigned all pnnding Vioxx product liability lawsuits against manufacturer Merck & Co. to .Judge Eldon 1\. Fallon, attorneys said. 
A judieial panni in Florida last month !ward argumnnts from Morek and from plaintiff's' attorrwys on possible locations to handle pretrial steps in the massive litiga­tion. 
United's debt to O'Hare reduced 
C:IIIC:AGO A bankruptcy judge approved a dPal Tuesday dramatically rcHiudng how much of O'Hare International Airport's dobt Unitnd Airlinns must pay. 
The doal. rnaelwd earlier with bondhold­nrs, will save Unitnd about $450 million and lwlp tho nation's No. 2 carrier emerge from bankruptcy, United spokesman Jeff' · c;rnnn said. It slashos United's obligation to pay $600 million of O'Hare's debt by 75 JWrc~ent. 
JAPAN 

Global warming pact begins 
Proponents celebrate Kyoto Protocol, insist that United States joins to fight pollution 
Associatc:d Press 

KYOTO -Amid f'anf'aro marking the cnaetment of' the Kyoto global warming pact, leading proponents laid out their next goals Wndnesday: persuading the United Statns to join the world crackdown on omissions of' earbon diox­idn and other gases and planning further stops when the current agrce­nwnt runs out in 2012. 
The Kyoto Protocol, adoptod in Japan's ancient capital in 11)97, imposes legally binding requiro­mcnts on 35 industrialized states to eut emissions of "grrHHl house gases blanwd for rising world tempnratures to an aver­ago or 5 percent below 191)0 lovnls. Tho tmaty has bnon ratified by 140 
'l
nations. 

I
But the largest emitter of 
I
such gases, tho United 
I 
Statos, has refused to go along with the restrictions, saying thny are 11awcd and could hurt its economy. Washington's absence loomed large over celebra­tions Wodncsday in Kyoto, wlwre environment minis­ters !'rom member coun­tries said progress would bn limited without American participation. 
"Climate change is a global problem and it can voiced hopes that the ble despite its opposition thor intreasos eould seri­only be doalt with with a increasing profitability of' to Kyoto, with White ously disrupt ecosystems, global approach," said technologies and business­House spokesman Seolt agriculture and human 
.Joke Waller-lluntor, tho es targeted at reducing McClellan saying Tuesday lifestyles. 
Du teh chief of the secre­gas emissions would "we are still learning" In London, protesters tariat to the 191)2 U.N. eli­demonstrate that battling about the science of eli­with foghorns and whistlns mate change treaty, to climate change eould lead mate change. burst into tho which tho protocol is an to new industries and jobs. In the meantime, International Petroleum adjunct. Thomas Becker, of McClellan said, "We have 1\xchange, disrupting oil 
The Unitod States signed Denmark's Environment made an unprecedented. trading in thn world's see­tho protocol in 1997 under Ministry, likened commitment to reduce thn ond-largnst enor·gy futures President Clinton, but tho Washington's rnluctance to growth of greenhouse gas market. Polien said thny 

Snnato refused to ratify it. join Kyoto to American emissions in a way that arrested I 0 people for Pmsidnnt Bush renounced automakers' failure to pro­continues to grow our public ordnr ofTnnses. thn agreement in 200 I, duce fuol-offkient cars in economy." (;reenpnaen spokesman and his government has the 1970s. But he said the Supporters of the paet Ben Stewart said tho expressed strong doubts best advertisement for the say action is urgent. group was trying to high­about the link between pact would be its success. Average global tempera­light shortcomings ol' the gases believed to trap heat "There is a market for tures rose about 1 degree Kyoto agreonwnt, particu­in the Earth's atmosphere climate-friendly technolo­in tho 20th c11ntury, and larly what he called its and climate ehange. gies -it's a market rather scientists say that has con­"modest targets" for cuts. 
No elear strategy has than a burden," he said. tributed to the thawing ol' "We need huge cuts if w11 cmflrgnd on how to enlist The United States the permafrost, rising arc going to divert danger­
U.S. participation. Several argued that it was being ocean levels and extreme ous climate ehangn," he environmental off'icials environmentally responsi-weather. Experts say l'ur-said. 
Security reduces foreign tourism 
Associated Press Lake Buena Vista, Fla.-bascd unit of Visitors !'rom abroad accounted for The Walt Disney Co. "I think other about $93.5 billion in spending and Mickey Mouse has a bone to pick countries are out there competing economic activity in the United with Uncle Sam. l'or tourists and we have not been." States in 2004, according to 
U.S. travel executives -ineluding Hasulo and other travel exeeutives Commerce Department estimates. tho!!e who run Disneyland and Walt said tourism to the United States, That's slightly larger than U.S. Disney World-say President Bush's while rising again after several down exports of' automobiles, engines and war on terror is unintentionally scar­years, is not as robust as it should parts. ing ol'l' foreign tourists and that an be, with an estimated 10 percent Tourism offieials ascribe the international campaign is needed to fewer international visitors in 2004 dcclinn partly to anti-Americanism lure more visitors and repair the than in 2000. Although the weak dol­that arose after the eountry laundwd country's soured image. lar has brought more visitors in military action in Afghanistan and 
!'Jt's more than just an image recent months, the overall trend is Iraq and to the "hassle J'aetor" asso­decline," said Jay Hasulo, president still disappointing to the industry. dated with new visa application and ol' Walt Disney Parks & Hesorts, a The stakes involved are huge. airport security procedurns. 
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 17, 2005 
IRAQ 

General linked to 1nassacres 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Hecently gath­ered information links one of Saddam Hussein's most notori­ous former generals to the mas­sacres of Shiites in southern Iraq and could result in new charges against the man who allegedly ordered the use of poisonous gas against Kurds in the north, a human rights group said Thursday. 
Gen. Ali Hassan al-Majid, known as "Chemical Ali," was involved in the massacre of at least 34 Shiite Muslim men in the southern city of Basra in 1999, New York-based Human Hights Watch said in a new report. 
"AI-Majid's role in the genocide against the Kurds is well-known, but it appears his hands are dirty in Basra in 1999 as well," Joe Stork, director of the group's Middle East and North Africa division, said in a statement. 
Investigators interviewed vic­tims, family members and eye­witnesses, and also flXamined documents and evidence from mass graves, the group said. 

Human Hights Wateh obtained a handwritten list that named 120 young men executed from March to May 1999 for taking part in protests over the assassi­nation of Grand Ayatollah Muhammad Sadiq ai-Sadr, a senior Shiite cleric. 
The remains of 34 men were found in a mass grave in May 2003, and family members have identified 29 of them. 
Among the documents found by the group is an apparent exe­cution list, which names 120 men who were executed by the "order of the Commander of the Southern Sector," a post held by al-Majid at the time. 
Al-Majid earned his nickname for allegedly ordering the use of poisonous gas against minority Kurds in northern Iraq, a crime with which he has been charged by an Iraqi court. Iraqi officials have not set a trial date yet. 


Sunday March 10 •7:30 p.m. Morris Performing flrts Centvr Sooth Bend, Indiana 
Tickets Go On S<lle U This Satord<1y 4i'.i.Jll February 19 
at 10:00 a.m.l 
Tit:kQ!:s owiloble at Morris Box Office (horge by phone S74/2l5-9190 or 800{537-6415 on-limt ot www.morriscentqr.org 
q{!-f/p(:ijj<'J 
RUSSIA 

Corruption, la-wlessness expand terroristn 
Government, police and military dishonesty creates even more challenges for Russia's poor 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -Terrorism is expanding its reach in Hussia, in part because of corruption and lawlessness in government, police and the military that make it impossi­ble for impoverished people 
to  improve  their  lot,  a  
Kremlin  aide  said  
Wednesday.  

Aslambek Aslakhanov, a former Soviet and Hussian Interior Ministry offieial who serves as President Vladimir Putin's adviser on the North Caucasus region, said terror­ists were increasingly finding recruits across Hussia's south. 
"Terrorist attacks aren't always politically motivated, sometimes they're carried out for revenge -against the corruption of authorities, the lawlessness of police and mil­itary structures, mass unem­ployment and the inability to feed one's family," Aslakhanov said in an inter­view with The Associated Press. 
"They try to do something [to improve their lot] and are not allowed to, and it's the 
bureaucrats  who  are  to  
blame," he added.  
Aslakhanov,  an  ethnie  

Chechen, said Putin had 
given him the task of taekling poverty in the region by cre­ating an international corpo­ration that would attract investment to the North Caucasus. particularly war­battered Chechnya, where he said unemployment was as high as 90 percent. 
He said government forces, which are supposed to ensure order, often helped fill terror­ists' ranks with their meth­ods. 
"The excessive cruelty of certain police and military structures in the country, especially the abduction of people, their torture and exe­cution and disappearance 
without a traee ... has an impact on the terrorist situa­tion," he said. 
Hussian forees have been fighting rebels in Chechnya for the better part of a deeade, but over the past few years police clashes with Islamic rebels in other regions of the North Caucasus have increased. 
Aslakhanov said he believed the various groups had ties; for example, some get extremist literature from a single source. But "organi­zation, strict discipline, sub­ordination one to the other ­these things still don't exist, thank God," he said. 


FREEBIE$ (SUBS & CLUBS ONLY) Onion. lettuce, alfalfa sprouts. tomato, mayo. sliced cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil &vinegar. and oregano. 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK -a 
SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 57 4.277 _-8500 ''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JONN'S!" © 
Thursday, February 17, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
House approves indecency fines 
.:ompromise. programming issues. lie added
Associated Press Opponents said they were con­that there is often more explicit WASIIINGTON -Chafing over cerned that stiffer lines by the content on eable and satellite a "wardrobe malfunetion" and Federal Communications channels, which are not subject to raey radio shoek-joek programs, Commission would lead to more indecency lines but can be just a<> tlw I louse overwhelmingly passed self-censorship by broadcasters easily accessible to children. a hill Wednesday authorizing and entertainers Under FCC rules unprneedontod lines for indncon­unelear about the and federal law, ey. definition of "inde­radio stations and
"The 2004 Super
Lawmakers sought to hit broad­cent." oVer-the-air televi­C1L'>ters whore it hurL.;-the poek­They cited the Bowl crystallized sion channels ean­ntbook -in approving the mem;­example of several not air obscene
the notion that 
urn 3X9-3H, rejecting critieism ABC afliliates that material at any
something needs lo
that the penalties would stifle li-en did not air the time, and cannot speech and expression and fur­World War II drama be done." air indecent mate­ther homogonizo proj.,'l'amming. "Saving Private rial bntween 6 a.m. The bill would increase the Hyan" last year and 10 p.m. The
Joe Barton
maximum line from $32,500 to bneause of' worries FCC defines
Rep., R-Texas
$500,000 lilr a eompany and from · that violence and obscene material $11 ,000 to $500,000 f(lr an indi­profanity would as describing sexu• vidual entertainer. lead to lines, even al conduct "in a 
"With p<L'>sagn of this legislation, though the movie already had patently offensive way" and lack­I am confident that broadca<;ters airnd on network TV. ing "serious literary, artistic, politi­will think twice about pushing the Hop. Jerrold Nadler, 0-N.Y., said cal or scientific value." Indecent nnvolopn," said Hnp. Frnd Upton, changing the channel is the best • material is not as offensive but H-Mich., chairman of the House way for families to avoid racy pro­still contains references to sex or tnleeommunications panel and gramming. excretions. autJ1or of tJm bill. "Our kids will be "But the prurient Puritans of The FCC has stepped up bett•~r ofT lhr it." this I louse are not satisfied with enforcement of the indecency 
The White I louse said in a state­free choke and the free market," statute, perhaps most notably ment that it strongly supporl<> tho Nadler said. "Instead, they want with a $550,000 line against CBS lngislation that the government to for Janet Jackson's "wardrobe "will make broad­decide what is or is malfunction" during last year's
"But the prurient 

cast tnlnvision and not appropriate for Super Bowl halftime show. Hadio radio more suit­Puritans ofthis the public to watch personality Howard Stern also ha<> able for family ·or listen to." been a frequent target. 
/louse are not

viewing." Andrew Jay 'The 2004 Super Bowl crystal­
satisfied with free 

A similar bill ha<> Schwartzman, chief lized the notion that something bmm introducnd in choice and the free exeeutive officer of needs to be done," said Hep. Joe tho Snnate, where the Media Access Barton, R-Texm;, chairman of the 
market."

it ha.; broad bipar­Project, a law firm Energy and ComRleree Committee tisan support. Sen. that represents that sent the bill to the full House. Ted Stevens, H­Jerrold Nadler small broadcasters, "For too long, broadcasters have Aluska, chairman Rep., 0-N.Y. said some of his been pushing the envelope." of the Commerce clients already are The FCC has wide latitude to Committee, has censoring them­impose fines. It can fine an indi­said he wants to selves because they vidual company, groups of stations act on the bill quickly, but he hm;­can't risk fines at the current owned by a company and individ­n't given a timetable. level. ual entertainers. In the case of 
Any dilfornnces in the two bills National Association of CBS and last year's Super Bowl would have to be resolved before Broadcasters spokesman Dennis halftime show, it imposed a fine of it ean go to Prnsident Bush for his Wharton said voluntary industry $27,500-then the maximum­signature. Last year the two initiatives are preferable to gov­against each of 20 stations owned chambers were unable to reach a ernment rngulation in addressing by the network. 
s8!/tAmerican Cancer Society s8!/t 
Daffodil Days 

$6 for a Bunch of Flowers $4 for a Vase 
Orders Due by Monday, February 28, 2005 Flowers will be delivered Thursday, March 17, 2005 
You can place an order in your dorm, or you can emaiI or campus maiI orders to: Michele Taets (mtaets@nd.edu, 307 Badin Hall) (Include your name and address with the amount of bunches/vases) 
Please make checks payable to: American Cancer Society 
Republicans assail proposed farm cuts 
Representives say Bush's efforts to reduce payments to fanners will be a 'huge mistake' 
monny, as you well know, 
and most of our producers 
WASHINGTON -House ean't sustain any sort of loss Republicans on Wednesday because they're operating on attaeked President Bush's such a thin margin," said effort to eut farm payments, Hep . .Jo Ann Emerson, a telling new Agriculture Missouri Hepubliean whose Secretary Mike Johanns it district has rice and eotton would be a "huge mistake." growers. 
"Farmers work hard, and She cited cotton industry they play by the rules that estimates that ineomn eould are given to them by the drop by 10 percent for Congress," said•Hep. Ray smaller farms and by 23 per­LaHood, H-Ill. " ... Now all of cent for farms of 1,000 a sudden the payment struc­acres. ture that we put in the Foes of euts say they rep­[2002] farm resent signifi­bill is not going cant changes to be there." in the 2002 
Associated Press 

"Deficit reduction is 
Johanns farm law,
so essential tO. the
defended the which doesn't president's economic prosperity expire for plan at a another two
offarmers and 
House appro­years. Bush
ranchers that we
priations sub­faces opposi­committee can't have a budget tion from fol­
hearing on the discussion without low Hepub­
agriculture licans in the
drawing back to that
budget. Bush Senate, too. seeks to shave realization. " .Johanns, a farm spending former by $5.7 billion Nebraska
Mike Johanns 
over the next governor
agriculture secretary 
decade, trim­familiar with ming payments farm-state to produeers issues, con­by 5 percent and sharply tended agriculture must help curtailing the ceiling on sub­all of government cut the sidies, among other cuts. deficit, which is projeeted to But LaHood told him: "The reach $427 billion this year. idea of reducing these pay­"Deficit reduction is so ments to farmers is a huge essential to the eeonomic mistake." prosperity of farmers and 
LaHood's constituents are ranchers that we can't have Midwestern farmers who a budget discussion without would suffer less from new drawing back to that realiza­payment limitations than tion," Johanns said. Southern growers. Rice and Keith Collins, the depart­cotton producers would feel ment's chief eeononiist who the impact most keenly testified with Johanns. said because their crops cost it was only fair to eut pay­more to grow and get higher ments more for those who subsidies. get the biggnst subsidies. 
Bush proposes to lower the "Cotton roeeivns the high­cap on subsidies from est level of benefits in our $360,000 to $250,000 and farm programs," Collins eliminate loopholes that let said. "It's not unreasonabln bigger operations claim pay­to think they would have to ments well above the limit. contribute a little more than 
"That's a whole lot of the other commodities." 
Post-Valentine's Day Clearance Sale At Irish Gardens! 
All roses half off, beautiful selection remaining 20% off everything else in the store 
Sale Thursday and Friday, or while supplies last! 
Irish Gardens Florist Basement of Lafortune 12:30-5:30 pm, Monday-Saturday (574) 631-4004 
JPW is this weekend...order corsages and boutonnieres for your parents today! 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, February 17, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Tbr Independent, Daily Nnvspapn-Serving Nottr DRm~ 4nd Saitlt Mary's 

Warring for peace? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Mart Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BusiNESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulrer CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 ohservad@nd:edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(5~4) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemems based on contem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must he signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policie< should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tiu: Observer (USPS 599 l~UJUO) is published Monday through Friday c:xcept !}ming cx.am ;~nd vacation period!.. A subJ,Cription to Tiu:: Observer i~ $100 for one aCOJ.demic year; $55 for one semeslc:r. 
The Ob~rvc:r is !)ublishc:J at: POSTMASTER 011 South Dining Hall Send addres$ correc:llon~ co: Notre Dam~. IN 46)56.0779 The Observer 1\:riodical postage paid at Nom Dante P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556·0779 
Tin~ Ob:.crvcr is :1 memher ofthe: Al.sociatcd Pres!.. All re:produaion rights are rottvcd. · 

"Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace." Could this title of Harry Elmer Barnes' 1953 book describe the focus of the Inaugural and State of the Union Addresses? The question is not hostile. I voted for President Bush in 2004 and, Charles given the same choice, Rice would do so again. But 
Right or 
the both speeches 
Wrong?
raise concerns. This Bush Doctrine 

• pledges to "support ... democratic move­ments and institutions in every nation and culture, with the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in the world." It equates freedom with democracy: "[B]ecause democracies respect their own people and their neighbors, the advance of free­dom will lead to peace." This promotion of democracy "in every nation and cul­ture" is now "the urgent requirement of our nation's security." One problem is ambiguity -"Demo­cracy" is not defined. An authoritarian regime need not be an automatic threat to the United States. Nor is a democracy intrinsically incapable of presenting such a threat. Thomas Aquinas listed the "forms of government" as monarchy, aristocracy and oligarchy as well as democracy. Pope John Paul II has spoken favorably of democracy, but all of those • forms can sustain a culture of peace and freedom. 
Does the Doctrine indicate a duty of on the part of the U.S. to press every nation to hold elections and to do so according to our standards? What further reforms does it require? We will tell "other gov­ernments ... that success in our relations will require the decent treatment of their own people [including] human dignity [and] rights ... secured by free dissent and the participation of the governed." If the people of a nation elect a leader ded-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
icatcd to strict Islamic law and support­ive of jihad, does the Doctrine imply a right of the U.S. to exert pressure, including the threat or use of force, to negate the results of that election? 
"America," Said the president,"will not impose our own style of government on the unwilling." But the system in the West is implicitly a model for "every nation and culture," and that model has problems of its .own. Thirteen days afer September 11, Pope John Paul II remind­ed the Islamic people of Kazakhstan of' "the danger of a slavish conformity" to Western culture ... "Western cultural models are enticing ... because of their ... scientific and technical cast, but ... there is growing evidence of their deepening human, spiritual and moral impoverish­ment. The culture which produces such models is marked by the fatal attempt to secure the good of humanity by eliminat­ing God, the supreme good." The presi­dent's personal invocations of' God do not change that reality in Western culture. 
The Constitution vested the powers of foreign relations in both Congress and the president. In regard to defense, it created a twilight zone, giving Congress the power to "declare" war, and in James Madison's words, "leaving to the president the power to repel sudden attacks." Presidents have sent forces into combat more than two hundred times. Congress has declared war five times. 
After 9/11, and in 2002 for Iraq, Congress essentially gave the president a blank check to use military force "as he determines to be necessary and appro­priate." Consequently, Congress recedes here to a merely advisory and funding role. In any event, James Madison and his colleagues would have been sur­prised at the suggestion that Congress and the President are able to defme the defense of the U.S. to require the active promotion of a particular form of gov­ernment in "every nation," regardless of whether that nation had ever attacked or menaced us. 
The president says the promotion of democracy "is not primarily the task of arms, though we will defend ourselves and our friends by force of arms when necessary." But if that promotion is now an "urgent requirement" of U.S. defense, how can the Doctrine categorically rule out the covert or overt use or threat of armed force, secondarily if not "primari­ly," to meet that defense imperative? 
The Iraq War was presented as a response to an imminent threat of attack by Sad dam's weapons of mass destruc­tion and his support of terrorism. Citizens had a duty to give the presi­dlmt's judgment the benefit of the doubt. But the new Doctrine defines defense in such a way that regime-change could be construed as an "urgent requirement" of 
U.S. defense without an attack, or a threat of attack, by the nation involved. Ajust war requires that it be waged by a competent and lawful authority and that it be a last resort. It is difficult to see how those conditions could be met in the use or threat of force to implement regime-change in such a case. By what right does the U.S. claim the authority to prescribe the form of government appro­priate for "every nation" on earth? 
Congress would do well to scrutinize this new Doctrine. Harry Elmer Barnes may have called it right. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law Schoolfaculty. His column appears every other Thursday. lie can be contacted at plawecki.l@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Eileen Duffy Dan Tapetillo Maddie Hanna Mike Gilloon Do the Vagina Monologues Peter Leahy Steve Coyer 
belong at Notre Dame? 
Viewpoint Scene Caroline Murphy Kenyatta Storin Graphics lllustrator 
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at 
Kelly MacDonald Katie Knorr 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"When I approach a child he inspires in me two sentiments: tenderness for what he is, and respect for what he may become. " 
Louis Pasteur French chemist 
Tt-·1E OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 17, 2005 page II 
The night to end all nights 
As wo all know, ovon wllogo studonts never have a singln drink untl'l tlwy roach logal drinking ago (cough, cough). Thon~l'on~. Tunsday rnarknd a largo milestone in my lif'n: my 21st birthday. To bo sure, this is an Pvnnt that most of' us nagnrly antieipatn. and I had IHHHl <·.ounting down tlw days for quito somn tinw-so had my par­Molly nnts l'or that matter. Acker 
To mark this rnornnntous occasion. my parnnts canw to South Bond to NobodyLikesA throw a littln birthday soinw for my Dumb Blonde l'amily and frhmds. I liko to think that it was tlw social ownt or the year, with a guest list that was a collodion of' "who's who" on tho Notre llamn and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Tlw morn fad that I was able to have my first cock­tail marknd Tunsday as a decidedly difTerent night than any previous onn. Still, my friends and I made sure to konp some of' our l'avoritn traditions alive. 
As always, we had to dntnrmine a "piek to click" l'or tho ovoning. This is accomplished prior to going out l'or tlw night. Tlw objnct ol' a "pick to cliek" is to prn­dict tlw person who will have the most memorable pnrl'ormanee of tlw evening. Tho person lucky enough to nwrit "pick to rliek" status exhibits ridiculous and outrag<HHIS lwhavior, usually for huge laughs, or dons anything nlso that might eause one to stand out from tho rnst or the group. 
II' you want to earn "piek to dick" honors, it is usual­ly a good idea to drink something that is strong enough to put some hairs on your chest-not literally, of course. A few shots of Wild Turkey can be critical to any strong bid as a "pick to click." Another good idea is to karaoke or dress up in costumes. 
Also. it never hurts to request bad '80s songs from such artists as Wham!, lluey Lewis, or Journey. Finally, a f'ew good jokes or one-liners at opportune moments can· sometimes be the deciding factor in determining whether or not a person "clicks" on that particular ewming. 
Naturally, on my own 21st birthday I was the "pick to dick." Not only do I fool as if I lived up to the title, but I also feel as if I managed to raise the standard by which all future "pieks to click" will be measured. Trust me, I paid the price later. 
Another of my favorite traditions that my friends and I kept alive was the recap the next day. On Wednesday, this oceurred in the dining hall around noon, as we discussed both tho regrets and triumphs of the night before. It was partieularly entertaining to hear stories of rekindled romances, who made out with their crush and who got into a dramatic fight with their ex. For better or worse, my own war stories from the night before were not as exeiting as those of my friends. 
In addition to "piek to click" and recaps the next day, Tuesday night was also interesting in that it provided me with an opportunity to tackle the South Bend bar scene with my parents. Don't get me wrong-my par-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Monologues threaten Catholic identity 

As a group of law stud~mts organiznd to work toward tho eulturo of life, Jus Vitae (Notre Damn Law School Hight to Life) is dismayed and disappointed that the department of film, tele­vision and thnatro, the department ol' English and tlw program of gender studies have spon­sornd tho Vagina Monologues again this year, as wnll as inviting Evo Ensler, a radical pro-choice advocatn, to spnak. 
Enslnr has artiliatnd herself with groups such at tlw YWCA and tho S-0-S of South Bend, both groups which support and advocate on-demand abortion. 
Tlwsn d<~partrnents daim that they sponsor tho Vagina Monologues to try and help raise awarmwss of violnnce against women. Cnrtainly, violnncn against wonwn is a horrible sociotal problem wn must deal with aggressive­ly, and is one that eonenrns members of Jus Vi tan, Catholics and all citizens of this world. 
But tho nwthods used by the Monologues do nothing hut f'urtlwr rontrihute to the problem. Tlw Monologuns ohjnctif'y women and prnsent a radically dist.ortnd vinw or snxuality. 
Notrn Damn has a duty to its students. As a Catholic univnrsity. it has the obligation not only 
t.o tnarh its studnnts in the respective majors, hut. to aid all students in thnir spiritual develop­mont and mnhraen tho tnaehings of the Church. 
What kind of mixed mnssage do hosting IWPnts likn tho Vagina Monologuns and the ()unm Film Festival send? There is room for acadnrnie dnbatn on campus-for example, roasonPd dPbatns regarding the issue of same-sex marriage or welfare policies of the United States: But there are certain moral truths that cannot and should not be denied. 
Among these truths is the dignity of every human life, from the moment of conception until natural death. The Vagina Monologues degrade half of the human population by prais­ing lesbian statutory rape and other sexual deviation. Further, Ensler denies the dignity of life that is present from the very beginning. 
On these issues, Notre Dame must remain a bastion of consistency in the face inereasing seeularism and pluralism of America. 
Ensler must be prohibited from speaking on this campus, and The Vagina Monologues must also be banished from campus. There is no room for hesitation with this matter. The play and Ensler are radically opposed to the truth of Catholic teachings, and provide no intellectual debate. Instead, they disgraee Our Lady's uni­versity, the students, faculty, teachers and the lloly Church. 
Notre Dame must stop these types of events, and change its policies with regard to events sponsored by academic departments. Otherwise, Notre Dame will lose its Catholic identity-the very thing that makes it special and unique in this world. That, indeed, would be a great loss. 
Courtney Tawresey President Law School Right to Life Feb. 16 
I .. ) ' 

ents can hold their own in a crowded pub with a bunch of college novices. 
Nevertheless, I think they fnlt a bit out ol' tlwir nl<~­ment. My mom didn't know tho words to many con­temporary songs -which posnd a pr:oblem since slw did not have the appropriate gestures to daneo along with them. Consnquontly, we had to go n~quest lwr own favorites like "Brown Eyed Girl" and "Shout." 
My dad was saddennd because ho eould not go to tlw Boat Club after he had heard so mueh about it. However, I assured him it was probably a blossing in disguise, especially becausn I was fairly cnrtain thny would not have known how to mako Canadian Club Old Fashions for him. 
All in all, we had a gnmt time. I will nnver l'orgnt my 21st birthday or how lucky I was to celnbratn with family and friends. It was a wild night filled with plnn­ty of laughs, and I am so glad I got to share tlw day with old and new f'riends alike. I think 21 is going to be really nice f'or me-I now have the goldnn k<~y to get me into any bar I want, and I can slnnp bott<~r at night not having to worry about NDSI' or ltnsLif'e issues. 
Molly Acker is a jwzior communications and human­istic studies double major at .")aint Mary's. ,\'he can be contacted at acke6758@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser11er. 
Just doing his job ... 
The highly publicized second annual ()uoer Film Festival began as a provocative exercise in inclusivity, and quickly became a tirestorm of controversy. Few wore spared the indignation of one party or another. 
Professor Ted Warfield asks why Bishop D'Arcy has spo­ken out on the Festival and not about other campus ovonts that do not necessarily showcase or coincide with tho posi­tions of the Catholic Church. Tho events ho is rofnrring to simply do not attract the samo magnitude of attention as sensationalized issues liko the ethics of war, abortion, or homosexuality. For evidence, examine the responses elieitnd by Fahrenheit 9/11, the Cemetery of the Innocents and now the Queer Film Festival, respectively. 
Professor Ed Manier accused the bishop of "muddying tho waters of intelligent public discussion," and charaetoriznd him as failing to be "consistent" with his views or to "mont any other criterion of rational discourse" in his opposition to University sponsorship of the event. It would appear that the bishop lacks the intellectual rigor to take part in this discussion. While D'Arcy is not a career acadmnic like Manier, he holds a doctorate in theology l'rorn tho well­respected Pontifical Angelicum University in Home. Listening to his homilies at the Basilica, I have found him to be quite intelligent and indeed capable or providing pastoral guidance to his diocese. 
Manier advocates a diseonnect in the relationship between the Church and Catholic universities in tho United States. I would like to point out that the nntirety of Notre Dame, down to the last building, is property of the Catholic. Church.. and is entrusted solely to the Congregation of lloly Cross, a Catholic religious order. To deny the Catholic nature and ownership of Notre Dame in the name of' such ambiguous things as "academic freedom" would be a farce and an indignity to the religious mission of the school. Where is one to draw the line between striving for an intel­lectual atmosphere and pursuit of fashionable political cor­rectness? 
D'Arcy has an official responsibility to artieulatn the Catechism and would be neglecting his episcopal duty il' he did not make Catholics in his diocese aware of tho l'a<~t that two of tho presenters at tho Festival are known for their open opposition to church teaching concerning tlw morality of homosexual acts. One wrote a blasphemous play in which Jesus and his disciples are depicted as activo homosexuals. In a decision personally approved by Pope John Paul II. the other was ordered to stop misrepresenting Catholic tnach­ing after a decade-long inquiry into hnr work. 
It is of no difTerence to me whether or not certain dl~part­ments of the University stage controvnrsial productions. Members of' th(1 Notre Dame community are l'roe to choose for themselves thn degrnn to whieh thny will support suc~h events. I am concerned. however, at thn f'aet that ))' Arcy has been so sharply criticized f'or doing his job. 
Matthew Smith freshman St. Edward's llall Feb. 16 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, February 17, 2005 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
The Game has arrived and is here to stay 
By KENYATTA STORIN Assistant Scene Editor 
The hits just keep coming for Aftermath. This time it is "ThP Documentary" -the highly-anticipated debut of Dr. Ore and 50 Cent's prol.!~ge, The Game. 
Like Dre, The Game hails from Compton, Cali., and like 50 Cent, he is a gangsta rap­per with a legitimate "gangsta" back­ground to back it up. After he graduated from high school, The Game got heavily involved in the drug trade, but that all changed when he nearly died after being shot five times. After this near-death expe­rience he decided to. turn to rap in 2001, studying classic rap albums like "Ready to Die," "Doggystyle" and "All Eyez on Me" to help him hone his skills. Eventually all his hard work paid off when his freestyles caught the ear of Dre, leading to his sign­ing with Aftermath in 2003. After several delays, "The Documentary" finally came out at the beginning of this year. And in just three weeks, it has already sold over 
1.04 million copies and is currently No. 1 on the Billboard charts. 
With rap heavyweights like Dr. Dre, Eminem, !50 Cent and G-Unit on his side, an aspiring rap star like The Game could not ask for a better situation. Dre pulls out all the stops for him, doing most of the production himself, while getting other well-known producers like Kanye West, Just Blaze and Hi-Tek to help out as well. Along with excellent boats, The Game also benefits from high profile guest appear­ances by not only 50 Cent and Eminem, but also Nate Dogg, Mary J. Blige, Busta Hhymes and I:aith Evans. With this kind of support on his side, The Game was basi­cally guaranteed to have a successful album. 
Lyrically, The Game spends most of the time paying homage to all his rap influ­ences, name-dropping his favorite albums and rappers with alarming regularity. On the title track, he even does a chorus that is made up of seven classic album titles from the 90s: ''I'm 'Ready to Die' without a 'Reasonable Doubt' I Smoke 'Chronic' and hit it 'Doggystyle' before I go out I Until they sign my 'Death Certificate' 'All Eyez on Me' I I'm still at it, 'Illmatic' and that's 'The Documentary.'" Although many of these historical hip-hop references are amusing and clever, at times it becomes too much, and by the end of the album it feels like The Game has managed to men-tion virtually every single prominent rap­per since 1990 at least once. 

When The Game is not name-dropping, he mostly raps about how great it is to be a part of Aftermath (he praises Dre to no end), and boasts about how he is going to help revitalize rap. Although the result is a plethora of catchy songs, for an album called 'The Documentary" one learns very little about The Game. Aside from the near-fatal shooting, The Game only scratches the surface of his life experi­ences. With the exception of tracks such as "Like Father, like Son," where The Game raps about the birth of his son, he rarely says anything of substance about himself. 
On "Dreams," The Game declares that his debut is '"Ready to Die' 'Reasonable Doubt' and 'Doggystyle' in one," which ref­erences the. respective debuts of Notorious B.l.G., Jay-Z and Snoop Dogg. However, these artists all painted distinctly unique, detailed portraits of themselves in their debuts, which not only distinguished them from their peers, but also showed aspects of their lives that listeners could empathize with. Not only did they display their rap­ping talents, but also their excellent story­telling abilities. The Game only shows half of this in 'The Documentary," for while he raps well, he does not create enough of a distinguished persona to be on the same plateau as these debuts. 
The Game dearly did his homework and demonstrates a vast knowledge of hip-hop both in terms of history and his own rap­ping, but the album wavers a bit towards the end because of its limited scope and vision. However, it is still a solid debut, and there are plenty of catchy highlights such as "flow We Do," "Westside Story," "Put You On The Game," "Dreams" and/or "The Documentary" that will likely get lots of radio play. The Game is still relatively new to rap, so he is still in the process of fmd­ing both his flow and his identity as a rap­per. With his deep knowledge of hip-hop, strong hip-hop connections in Aftermath and his intriguing back story, in all likeli­hood The Game will oply take his game even higher. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 

LCD Soundsystem redeems modern music 
and company fuse the best of every musical Graciously, Murphy does have a lot of By MATTHEW SOLARSKI genre ever into one delectable package. good to say with them. Some would call this 
Scene Music Critic 
Behold as the LCD Soundsystem conjures a thinking-person's dance record, and the 
the living ghosts of Prince, Can, Gang of description holds up when Murphy delivers 
It takes James Murphy and the LCD Four, P.I.L., Michael Jackson, The Fall, choice quips like, "it's like a movement I Soundsystom precisely three notes to trans­Suicide, New Order, The Jam, Blondie and without all the bother I of all of the mean­mit an irresistibly feverish dance-rock sure, Daft Punk and serenades them with ing" and closes a verse by announcing, groove to every body within earshot. One, frontm<m Murphy's ridiculously self-aware, "your favori~e band helps you sleep." On two and boom -the listener is plunged into deadpan vocals. Marvel at the Velvet some tracks Murphy flirts with conventional the throes of "Daft Punk is Playing at My Underground-esque swagger of the "Never dance-floor lyricism, in the process creating !louse," now officially the definitive disco­As Tired As When I'm Waking Up," which brilliant pastiche. The phenomenal "Disco punk anthem (start eBay-ing those outmod­arrives like a hazy afternoon rain following Infiltrator" contains the hilarious banter, ed Hapture records now, kids) and the first the high-noon-sun head-charge of "but all I know I is all I know I it's the disco of nine party-starters on the LCD "Movement." And swoon over those vocals, infiltrator I fo' sho'." Soundsystem's debut record that simply do which sound insufferably cool no matter Handclaps and cowbell, the two quintes­not relent. what they are saying; the very definition of sential ingredients of any self-respecting 

Hyphens are in short supply after Murphy hip. 
LCD Soundsystem 

led soundsyste• 
LCD Soundsystem 
DFAIEMI 




dance-punk record, do indeed abound here. So too do infectious basslines, such as the Photo courtesy of lcdsoundsystem.com groove-driving "Tribulations," easily the LCD Soundsystem utilizes the music of record's most accessible track. LCD many different musicians, including Soundsystem's sublime power rests in its Prince, Michael Jackson, Daft Punk, willingness to retain these popular elements Blondie, Gang of Four and The Fall. while venturing into club, dub, house, jun­gle and acid territory, and never compro­My Edge, " James Murphy's snide ode to mising an ounce of that characteristic self­hipster-dam. The savvy and generous folks awareness. The Soundsystem wraps up its at EMI have collected practically all of those masterpiece with the gorgeous, sprawling now-legendary cuts onto a second bonus "Great Helease" which should pique the disc, which accompanies the debut record, interest of fans of Death Cab For Cutie's building perfection upon perfection. One 'Transatlanticism" with its initial similari­spin of either record will shatter the win­ties to that record's title track. ter's pall and set woebegone bodies in 
The LCD moniker has been tossed around motion, guaranteed. in the indie community for some time now, based solely on the strength and promise of Contact Matthew Solarski at a number of vinyl singles, including "Losing msolarsk@nd.edu 
... ,.;·~::::;:::;;.~:>"•' 
WSND-FM TOP 5 SPINS OF THE WEEK: 1) ALOHA· Here Com:~ ,l~~i,fi',2'~2f 2} MATT SWEENEY & BONNIE "PRINCE" Bl
11 
•• c " • 


By BECCA SAUNDERS 
A.sistalll Scene Editor 
It is not ofton that a nnw band dnbuts with an album that. dnsorvos to bo a hit. l!azorlight.'s ddJUt album "Up All Night" w:mmplislws that li~at. Thn band, formed in 2002, gairwd a small li>llowing in bot.h (;rnat llrit.ain and tho Unit.ml States long b•~forP t.lw dnbut of its album in Or.tobnr 2004 in (;rnal Britain, but is now begin­ning to nH:Pivn tho acelaim it dosnrvos across tlw world. 
Tlw uniqun sound of llazorlight is hard to dos•:rilw and pPrhaps that is prndsoly bneausn tlw band ·nHHnbors themselves mnw from such varind backgrounds. With mnmlwrs from llritain, Swndon and tho llnitnd Stat•~s. it is no surprise hint'i of Brit rock, punk rock and evon a twist of American oldios permeate the sound throughout "Up All Night." The sound is uniquo and rofrnshing. Many of tho songs sound a bit like the Strokns, but Hazorlight semns to pull ofl" the mwq..,ry i>f the Strokes without trying as hard as the Strokns do to produen a unique sound. All in all, almost nvnry song on thn album has tim making for a hit and there is simply not much morn one can ask from a dnbut album. 
Johnny Borroll, who is a snlf-prodaimod musical genius and tho London-born load singer and guitarist for Hazorlight, writes most of the songs. Bjorn Agren is tho gui­tarist and back-up vocalist and hails lh>m a rnrnotn farm in Sweden. Agrnn assisted in writing a handful of the songs on "Up All Night." Bass and backing vocals arn cov­nrnd by Carl Dalnmo, who was a friend of Agrnn 's and tho last original membnr to join tho band. The original drummer for Hazorlight, Christian Smith Pancorvo, left thn band only two wneks before tho band's 

major "The Golden Touch Tour," citing 
health roasons. Pancorvo was quickly 
replaced by Andy Burrows, who is the cur­
rent HazorHght drummnr, although 
Pancorvo did all the drumming on "Up All 
Night" because thn album was finished 
bnfore Paneorvo quit. 
In the United Kingdom, ''Golden Touch," 
"Stumble and Fall" and "Hip It Up" havo already become hit singles. I Iowever, those songs are not even the best "Up All Night" has to o!l"er. "Goldnn Touch" is a terrific song about girls getting lost in London, and while it may be a high point in the album, it docs not win that titln by a largo margin. "Leave Me Alone," "Hock N Boll Lies," "Vice" and "Stumbln and Fall" are all tor­l·i!k songs. Generally put to a fast beat and ·driven by pulsating guitars, Hazorlight's songs maintain a terrilieally strong ener!,'}' throughout "Up All Night." "Hock N Roll Lies" is onn of the most unique songs on 

thn album. It nnarly sounds like a n~mixed rock version of a dassic oldios song, but the brillianco in that sound is that it is a completnly original song ereatml by Hazorlight. The song builds up to a strong melodk chorus ·in which Borrell sings, "And here he comes now, thnrn's nothing to say I Them he goes again, but no one earns anyways I What's in your· eyes I Your rock 'n' roll eyes." The lyrics move lluidly with the melody in a way that even tlw most experienced musicians ol"tnn struggle to crnatn. 
Hazorlight cannot bn called "the nnxt" anything. The band is entirnly uniqun with a sound all il'i own. The fusion of dill"enmt touchns of multipln music genros ernatos a terrific album and a truly spoctac~ular debut. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
The Killers not taking success for granted 
Associated Press 
Tlw Killers' load singer looks like lw stepped out of a 19S0s time warp with the nyeli1wr, tlu~ pn~ssPd suit and tio and the lipstkk, or, lip gloss. 
l·:v•~n tho hand's debut album, "llot l;uss," is a hit of a throwbac:k, combining I1JS0s pop sPnsihilities with today's rock sound. And that's just tlw way tho band intonds it, says frontman Brandon l;lownrs. 
"We s•m ourselves in thn same vein as a lot of hands out t.lwrn right now. But our goal ... right out of tho chute, was to take it to a dill"nrnnt t.wnl," hn told Thn A'isodatml l'rnss recnntly. ''I'm not saying we'n~ going to do it. But that's what wn'vn snt out to do." 
It's an nlli>rt that appears to have lwlpnd propol tho band up thn charts and gar­IWrPd tho quintc~t thrnn (;rammy nomina­tions, induding onn for roek album and rock song for their daneoable hit "Sonwbody Told Mo." 
l."ornwd in 2002, thn Killers took its name from tho Nnw Order vidno "Crystal," which fnaturnd a fake band named tho Kill•~rs-a supposedly pnrfed band with a great song, good looks and youth on its sidn. Turns out, it may be a eas•~ of nmlity following in tlw lilOtstnps of' art with tho Las Vngas quintet of Flowers, guitarist David Kmming, bassist Mark Stoermer and drumnwr Bonnin Vannueei. 
A year latnr, tlw band had a deal with an independent English label and WIL'i touring nonstop. Within months, thn Killors caught llw attention of major labds, nvcmtually signing with tho Island Dnf .Jam Musie (;roup. 
Since then, Flowers' face has been splashnd ac:ross magazines and the band has appoarnd on NBC's "Tonight" show to Fox's 'Thn O.C." 
But Flowers, 2:~. seems to be taking it in stride, careful not to t.akn anything for granted in an unprndietable business. 
Q: 
You've only r!'ally bonn at it together a fc~w yoars. Are you surprised by the quick success'? 

BHANDON FI.OWEHS: We fool very lueky. Thorn arn a lot of talnntml bands out thorn.... There's is so much to do with luck. I fen! like we'rn a good band. But then~ are a lot of good bands out thorn and bands that are similar to us. It's just kind of right places and right times kind of thing I think. 

Q: 
You said earlinr the Kilhws wanted to take it to a dimmmt levnl'? 


FLOWEHS: Joy Division was a great band. But U2 and tlw Curn took that to another level and made it not only radio friendly but thny kept their dignity intact. Wn want to bo one of those bands that pnople are into but also has writton some groat songs. And radio is Cihanging. Thn Strokes and thn White Stripes have all donn a very good job. But they havnn't bro­ken tho doors opnn. 
Q: Isn't that a tall ordor lin· a band? 
FLOWERS: Yeah. Hadio is changing and it's by no means just bm~ause of us. It's us and Franz Ferdinand and the Yeah Yeah Yoahs and a lot of other great bands. We'rn just happy to be part of the ehangc that's happening. 
Q: So what inspired "Somebody Told 
Me'"! 


FLOWEHS: I lovn the play on words. I think of it as a·great icebreaker. I think of it as the ultimate pickup line. If I was a girl I would think that it's very devnr, if a boy came up to me and said that to mn. 
Q: Have you used that line'! 
FLOWEHS: No. But I hope somebody does. I think the girl would melt'! 
Q: Or frnak out'? 

FLOWEHS: No, not frnak out. It would be funny, and it would be a great way to brnak the ien. Oh, t·don't know. It's our most lighthearted, most Las Vegas song. It's good, dean lim. 
Q: Yet your band donsn't really givn oil" that Las Vegas fool. 
FLOWEHS: A lot of pnopln think we do and I don't gPl it. But then a lot of people also think wn just rip on· English bands. We just try to be us and writn our songs. 
Q: At somn point, tlw band had to make a deeision about its musical approach, right'? 
HJ>WEHS: Well, sort or. These are tho songs that we did. We didn't rnally throw anything away becausn it. didn't sound likn us. We haven't had anything like that. We love dillimmt kinds of music, so our album is pretty diverse. 
Q: Wlwrn do you go from hewn? What do you do next'? 
FLOWERS: We hit you harder with our next singln I"Mr. Brightsidn"l and then we hit you harder again with all tlwsn things that we've dono. And tlwn wo win. 
Q: No ego thorn, huh? 
FLOWEHS: You got mo in a rnally good mood. I'm just happy with nvoryt.hing right now and I havo a lot of •:onfidencn in our songs. 
Q: I have to ask is it: l.hn sueenss ­nvorything you thought it would bn'! 
FLOWEHS: Yns, and morn. Thorn's so much that you nnvnr think about whnn you 'rn trying to get your musk out them. You know, likn doing intorviows al. 11 o'doek at night on a enll phone standing on the street in Colognn, Gnrmany. 
Q: Y~>u moan likn right now? FLOWEHS: Yeah. 
Superwolf 3) M83 -Before The Dawn Heals Us 4) PALOMAR· Palomar Ill: Revenge of Palomar 5) INTERPOL-Antics . , .
' 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 17, 2005 
NASCAR 
Earnhardt Jr. grows into starring role 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. The success story that is Dale Earnhardt Jr. didn't get off to a very fast start. 
Through his teens and into his early 20s, Junior consid­ered himself a mediocrity. 
"I didn't know if I was going to amount to a whole lot because I didn't have a lot of things that I enjoyed," he said. "I didn't want to have to work a job that I didn't like." 
Those worries are all in the rear view mirror for the most popular driver in NASCAR as he goes into Sunday's season­opening Daytona 500 as the defending champion and, after winning a career-high six races last year, a solid threat to win the Nextel Cup title. 
It hasn't been an easy transi­tion. 

Expectations were high when the youngest son of Dale Earnhardt, a seven-time series champion and the most popu­lar driver of his era, won con­secutive Busch Series titles in 1998 and 1999 and moved up the next season to NASCAR's top series. 
Junior, then 25 and consid­ered by many a superstar in waiting, signed an unprece­dented 10-year, $100 million 
sponsorship  deal  with  
Budweiser before he ever  
drove a Cup race.  

Driving for the team his father founded, Little E was an instant celebrity, appealing to the MTV generation as well as many of the elder Earnhardt's fans. The demands on his time and his sudden loss of freedom to come and go as he pleased, thanks to his new celebrity, were overwhelming at times. 

MLB 
Manager says Canseco used steroids 
La Russa admits to player's use of drugs on '60 Minutes' 
Associated Press NEW YORK-Jose Canseco bragged about not having to work out as hard as other players on the Oakland Athletics because he had a "helper," his former manager, Tony La Russa, said in an interview with "60 Minutes Wednesday." La Hussa managed Canseco and the Athletics to consecu­tive AL pennants from 1988­90, winning the World Series in 1989. La Russa's interview was broadcast Wednesday night on CBS, three days after the net­work aired an interview with Canseco, who has admitted using performance-enhancing drugs and accused several for­mer teammates of the same. Saudy Alderson, executive 
vice president for baseball operations in the commission­er's office, said Major League Baseball has no record of being contacted during the mid­1990s by an FBI agent who told the New York Daily News he warned baseball about steroid use among players. 
La Russa, now manager of the St. Louis Cardinals, told "60 Minutes Wednesday" that Canseco would boast about not needing a lot of time in the gym to build his strength. 
"He would laugh about the time that other guys were spending there, and how he didn't have to, because he was, he was doing the other 'helper,"' La Hussa said. "He was having help in a different way. You know, the easy way." 
Earlier this week, the Daily News reported that baseball executives failed to act on information provided by Special Agent Greg Stejskal in Ann Aror, Mich. He said he told baseball security chief Kevin Hallinan in the mid-1990s that Canseco and other players were using illegal anabolic steroids. 
"Kevin has told me that he does not remember any con­versation with Special Agent Stejskal," Alderson said. "However, because of the nature of the assertions made by Stejskal, we have reviewed our records to determine what, if any, contact there may have been between St11jskal and our office." 
Alderson said baseball has no record of any contact with Stejskal during the period, adding: "Nor has the FBI pro­vided us with any such docu­mentation." 
Alderson said Stejskal left a message on Hallinan's voice mail Tuesday. Alderson said the message states that the '90s contact to which Stejskal has referred occurred at an FBI conference in Quantico, Va., where Hallinan was speaking. 
CYCLING 
Armstrong will compete in the 'Tour' this summer 
Jacques Anquetil, Eddy Merckx, 

Biker looking for his 
Bernard Hinault and Miguelseventh consecutive Indurain. 
Armstrong will start his 2005

·victory in big race season with the Paris-Nice stage race in March, according to the team Web site. He will then com­
Associated Press 
pete in the Tour of Flanders on 

PARIS -Still hungry to race April 3 before returning to the but wary he is not in the best United States to defend his title shape, Lance Armstrong wants at the Tour de Georgia that to take his Tour de France month. record to even mightier heights: Armstrong said that he and He will try for a seventh straight Johan Bruyneel, his friend and title this summer. team manager, "will evaluate my 
Armstrong had left open the fitness later this spring and pos­possibility he wouldn't compete sibly add some races to the cal­this year in cyeling's showcase endar." event to pursue other races. But "I am excited to get back on in an announcement Wednesday the bike and start racing," on the Web site of his Discovery Armstrong said, "although my Channel team the Tour's only condition is far from perfect." six-time winner said he will Other rac·ers probably won't again commit himself to the race attach much importance to that to which he's dedicated his last assessment, and British cycling life. bookmaker William Hill immedi­
"I am grateful for the opportu­ately installed Armstrong the 4-7 nity that Discovery favorite. Jan Ullrich, the 1997 Communications has given the Tour champion and five-time team and look forward to runner-up, was at 7-2. achieving my goal of a seventh "It's good that he is there," Tour de France," Armstrong Ullrich said. "The best should be too old, some might think, to win that once he's on his bike he can to win other big races, but the said. at the Tour." the three-week cycling shut out all manner of distrac­demands of the Tour have left 
Armstrong has overcome tes­Andreas Kloden, last year's marathon yet again. There were tions -from a court battle over little room for such Classic races ticular cancer to become one of runner-up, added: "I always said plenty of doubters last year, too. a book that implied he used as the Spanish Vuelta, the Paris­the most inspirational stories in he would ride. I am glad he's Yet the Texan managed to defeat drugs to the attention focused on Roubaix or Fleche Wallone, all sports, and his sixth Tour there." younger competitors with a his girlfriend and singer, Sheryl which he won in 1996 shortly crown last year sent him past Armstrong will be nearly 34 dominant performance. Crow. before being diagnosed with four five-time champions: when the Tour begins July 2 -Armstrong showed last year Armstrong has said he wants cancer. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND WANTED FoR SALE 
2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic Year. 1-car garage,close to NO. $850/mo. PERSONAL 
Available June 1, 2005. Local alumnus looking for experi-Call 574-329-0838. Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 enced babysitter. Call360-1617. 95 Cougar XR7.Low mileage,sweet Two(2) Bedrooms-2 Baths, Days $299! Includes Meals, 
LOST: Clip-on earring, silver flower ride. $4,000. Call 634-4400. Avail.now. Washer/Dryer, Security System, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, with light purple rhinestones. ND/SMC WOMEN: South Bend Fully Furnished. Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, 
professional couple seeks responsi-FOR RENT Exclusive Home Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Lost on Sunday after 11 :45 mass ble female student(s) to provide Stables and Indoor Arena. Indoor Call 626-44 H 275 or Salvaty @ Winning Company! between Basilica and Coleman • evening/overnight care for a few FoR RENT swimming pool & Sauna. earthlink.net SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­Morse or between Coleman Morse days for two daughters, ages 13 & 6386 and the circle. 7. Located 1 mile from campus in Call for details Judy 574-298-6217 2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. 
historic district. Must have own COLLEGE PARK CONDOM INI-If St. Paul were around today -he 
Reward. transportation. Get away. Earn UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAM-would be on the radio! extra money. Low-stress setting. SCHOOL YEAR.TWO BED-PUS.$195/PERSON. 1-car garage,close to ND.$650/mo. www.SouthBendCatholicRadio.com Call514-2169. E-mail ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY 235-... 
Call Lori 233-3436. TomMP@MBM.org 7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. AVAIL 05-06. 329-0308 Call317-815-1329. HTown-don't spit out your water! 
Thursday, February 17, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
week at Legends... 
\ 
. (with Dairiel Har 
~'Llta d by WVFI llJ.all:.-. l 
nsore .. 10 ...v 
~\'0 'Pl)) 
Underground nightclub 


ND, SMC, HCC ID required www.nd.edu/-legends 

F:=F.l UN I VI! RS ITY OP
v.t/1 NOTRE DAME 
CENTER FOR SociAL CoNCERNS 
The Ganey Award & Grants 
For Local Community-Based Research 

Rodney F. Ganey Award Community-Based Rese-arch Mini-Grant 
The Center for Social Concerns is now accepting nominations for the Ganey The Center for Soc1al Concerns is offering three mini-grants of $5,000. each to support Commun1ty-Based Research Award. joint faculty-student-community research partnerships that address; social challenges 
articulated by community organizations. Th1s $5,000 award recognizes a Notre Dame faculty member who has carried out a research project or agenda that benefits the local community. Grants may support the planning and development of new projects, the expansion of 
existing ones, project assessment, or the dissemination of findings from projects that The nom1nator should submit a letter describing how one research project, or a are ongoing or in final stages. representative project from a larger body of work, has impacted the South Bend community and Notre Dame students. Nominators can include Notre Dame faculty, To receive funding. proposals must describe how the partnership will: students, and staff. or individuals not affiliated with Notre Dame. 
• Result in measurable, positive impact in the South Bend area: Nom1nees should be regular faculty (teaching-and-research faculty, research faculty. • Reflect the investment of faculty expertise in the local community; and library faculty. and special professional faculty). Emeritus faculty may also be nominated. •Offer students community-based learning opportunities that promote civic lnd1v1duals may nom1nate themselves. responsibility. 
Go to: http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/faculty/ganey_award.shtml to learn more. Go to http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/faculty/mini_grant.shtml to learn more. 
Nominations must be submitted by March 7, 2005. Proposals should be submitted by February 28, 2005. 
Contact Mary Beckman, Ph.D., at 63 1-4172, mbeckman@nd.edu, with any questions. 
----------------~~~-----------------~ 
-------~ 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 17, 2005 
MLB 
Brovvn recovers after enduring back pains 
Injuries proved to be problematic for tJie pitcher last season 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. ~Kevin Brown flexed his left hand, showing it had healed from its light with a clubhouse wall last September. He hopes his back is better, too. 
Brown arrived at spring train­ing Wednesday and said a physi­cal therapist has helped alleviate the back pain that wrecked his first season with the Yankees last year. Because of the problems, he plans to "ease" himself into spring training, probably throw­ing less often than New York's other starters, although he still done and over with," Brown said. "It's all part of that year that I look back on and wish there's a lot of things I cou.ld have done differently." 
Brown, who turns 40 next month, got hurt early in spring training last year but misjudged the problem as mere stiffness. That has caused him to alter his routine. 
"What I really want to do," he said, "is kind of approach it the way I did it two years ago, when I was in my last year in LA: make sure I kind of ease back into it." 
Down the row in the club­house, Mariano Hivera also made his first appearance. 
He did not return to his house in Panama at all during the off­season following the deaths of 
two of his wife's 
relatives. 

thinks he will be "We;ll see when it's They were elec­ready for the start trocuted Oct. 9 in
put to the test 

of the season. the swimming pool 
whether it's as

"I've learned of the house, some things, and good as it apparently when it's better than an electrical cable
should be." 

what it was, fell into the water. Brown said. "We'll Going to Panama see when it's put to Kevin Brown would have the test whether Yankees pitcher brought back the 
it's as good as it should be." 
He had surgery in June 2002 to repair a herniated disc and disc fragments that pressed on a nerve. While Brown went 14-9 with a 2.39 ERA for Los Angeles in 2003 and then was traded to the Yankees, he was only 10-6 with a 4.09 ERA last year and was on the disabled list from June 10 to July 29 because of his back. 
Brown wasn't too effective when he returned, but he did get a win in Game 3 of the first­round series against Minnesota. Then in Game 7 of the AL cham­pionship series against Boston, he gave up a two-run homer to David Ortiz in the first inning and left with the bases loaded in the second. 
Johnny Damon homered on Javier Vazquez's first pitch, and the Hf1d Sox won 10-3. 
Brown never thought about telling the Yankees he wasn't in good enough shape to start what turned out to be their final game of the year. 
If he had turned down the start and New York had lost, he would have wondered whether he could have gotten the pennant­winning victory. 
His back condition hadn't changed since the win at the Metrodome, and Yankees man­ager Joe Torre said pitching coach Mel Stottlemyre thought Brown warmed up well before Game 7. 
"It's not like I felt any better than the game in Minnesota," Brown said. "Whether it's luck or destiny or whatever you want to call it." 
Frustrated by his poor per­formances and aching back, the right-hander broke a bone in his non-pitching hand when he punched a clubhouse wall in frustration on Sept. 3. He didn't return until Sept. 26. 
During the offseason, Brown agreed to make a charitable con­tribution in lieu ·of a possible fme. 
He wouldn't discuss the amount, but a Yankees official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said last week it was more than $100,000. 
"As far as I'm concerned, it's bad memories. 
"I brought everybody home, back to New York, spent time with them, but I didn't go, it was too fresh," Rivera said. 
About 30 relatives made the trip, which was around the Christmas and New Year's Day holidays. 
He isn't sure what he'll do with the house. "We might end up selling it," he said. 


JPWWEEKEND 
South Bond's #1 Sports Bar 2046 South Bond Avo -Across from Martins Plaza 272·1 766 
Juniors, 11re look for11rard -eo 111ee-eina your paren-es -ehis weekend. 
Brina -ehem in for -ehe panyt 

Thursday, February 17, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
ALSO.... 

SUB MOVIES 
PRESENTS 
LL(;LN DS NATIONAL
. , : '' ·r· P ::. r; "\VI;: 

• I
TREASURE 
I 
I I I 
DeBartolo 101 
$3.00 
Thursday lOPM 
Friday 8 & 10:30PM 
• Saturday 4:30 & 7PM 

presents... 

mickfoley 
Former Professional Wrestler Bestselling Author of ~ ':~~ve A Nice D::" ~0
~~A T1etam Brown ~ ,
&ct · ~ov 
~ ·~QO .. --~· 
.I 

J&6 so-~ .'\.'\.0~, · 'IQ~hr vl().: c..o'Y' 
-)' 17th 8:00 \?ttl . r{\\_0~ rece-pt\0 
~brought to you by the student union boo ~sub,nd.edu 
• 0
.. 
\ '0 I' I . ,•
'I 


OUND THE NATION 
page 18 Colv1PJ LED FROM ..fH E OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Thursday, February 17, 2005 
Men's Swimming & Diving CSCAA Top 25 
team  votes  
1  Stanford  200  
2  Florida  190  
3  Auburn  184  
4  California  170  
5  Arizona  164  
6  Southern Cal  163  
7  Minnesota  156  
8 9  Michigan Texas  149 136  
10  Virginia  127  
11  Kentucky  118  
12  Georgia  108  
13  Indiana  105  
14  Northwestern  96  
15  Tennessee  90  
16  Purdue  78  
17  Wisconsin  67  
18  Texas A&M  60  
19  North Carolina  53  
20  BYU  48  
21  NOTRE DAME  36  
22  Hawaii .  34  
23  Florida State  25  
24  Ohio State  11  
24  Alabama  11  


Women's Swimming & Diving CSCAA Top 25 
team  votes  
1  Georgia  175  
2  Auburn  168  
3  .. Florida  159  
4  Arizona  156  
5  Texas  146  
6  SMU  141  
7  California  133  
8  Stanford  124  
9  Wisconsin  118  
10  Texas A&M  115  
11  UCLA  104  
12  Maryland  96  
13  Michigan  89  
14  Penn State  83  
15  North Carolina  74  
15  Virginia  74  
17  Arizona State  64  
18  Southern Cal  56  
19  Purdue  46  
20  Hawaii  45  
21  Florida State  28  
21  NOTRE DAME  28  
23  Northwestern  20  
24  Indiana  8  
24  Washington  8  

MIAA Women's Basketball 
NHL 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -A hockey season on the brink is now a season gone bust. 
The NIIL canceled what was left of its decimated schedule Wednesday after a round of last-gasp negotia­tions failed to resolve differences over a salary cap -the flash-point issue that led to a lockout. 
It's the first time a major pro sports league in North America lost an entire season to a labor dispute. The resulting damage could be immeas­urable to hockey, which already has limited appeal in the United States. 
"This is a sad, regrettable day that all of us wish could have been avoid­ed," NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said. 
"Every day that this thing continues we don't think it's good for the 
IN BRIEF 

Federer wins easily at 
Rotterdam 

ROTTERDAM, Netherlands -Top­ranked Roger Federer beat Bohdan Ulihrach 6-3, 6-4 Wednesday in the opening round of the ABN Amro tournament. 
In second-round play, second-seed­ed Guillermo Coria was beaten 2-6, 7-6 (2), 6-3 by Paradorn Srichaphan, defending champion Juan Carlos Ferrero lost 6-4, 6-7 (6), 6-3 to Radek Stephanek, and sixth-seeded Nikolay Davydenko ousted Tomas Berdych 7­6 (8), 6-0. 
Federer broke Ulihrach in the sec­ond game, and his only hitch was giv­ing up a 40-0 lead in the final game of the first set. But he recovered and broke quickly in the second" set for full control. 
"I needed to get used to the circum­stances o( an inside court again, but after that everything went like it should," Federer said at his first game," NIILPA executive director Bob Goodenow said in Toronto. 
To begin with, all momentum gained in the final days of negotia­tions has been lost -late offers that appeared to bring the sides close to a deal are now off tbe table, and there's no telling when the NHL will get back on the ice. 
No Stanley Cup champion will be crowned, the first timn that's hap­pened since 1919, when the 2-year­old league called off the finals because of a flu epidemic. 
Without an agreement, there can be no June draft. The sport's herald­ed next big thing, Canadian phenom Sidney Crosby, won't pull on his first NHL sweater anytime soon. 
Then there is the parade of aging stars -Mario Lemieux (39), Mark Messier (44), Steve Yzerman (39) 
appearance since his exit against Marat Safin in the semifinals of the Australian Open. Indiana's senior guard
Perry leaves teams 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Senior guard Donald Perry left the Indiana basketball team Wednesday. 
Coach Mike Davis said Perry, who was suspended for six weeks earlier this season, decided he didn't want to be part of the program after the Hoosiers' 71-56 victory over Minnesota last Saturday. Davis said in a written statement that Perry notified the coaches late Monday. 
"We're disappointed that Donald is leaving, but we wish him the best," Davis said. 
Perry did not attend Tuesday's game at Ohio State. 
He was suspended in October for a violation of team rules although Indiana officials ne·ver identified which rules were broken. Perry was Brett Hull (40), Ron Francis (41 ), Dave Andreychuk (41) and Chris Chelios (43) -whose playing days could be ending on someone else's terms. 
"This is a tragedy for the players," Bettman said. "Their careers are short and this is money and opportu­nity they'll never get back," Bettman said. 
Despite being the NIIL's best-known star, there was never a chance that Pittsburgh's Lemieux, the first owner­player in modern American pro sports history, would side with the players. 
"A few years ago, I thought the owners were making a lot of money and were hiding some under the table, but then I got on this side and saw the losses this league was accu­mulating," he said Wednesday. 
team 

Hope Albion Calvin Tri-State Alma Kalamazoo Adrian SAINT MARY'S Olivet· 
MIAA 
14-1 
13-1 
11-3 
6·9 
5-9 
5·9 
4·10 
4-10 
2-12 
overall 
21-2 21-2 
17-4 9·15 18-10 18-13­8·14 9·14 
7-15 
around the dial 

MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Duke at Viriginia Tech, 9 p.m., ESPN Nebraska at Oklahoma, 9 p.m., ESPN 2 
NBA 
Cleveland at Minnesota, 8 p.m., TNT Dallas at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m., TNT 

reinstated in December and played in just three games, earning a total ~!ght minutes. Venus Williams, Schnyder
advance in Antwerp 
ANTWERP, Belgium -Venus Williams opened her quest to claim a $1.3 million gold-and-diamond tro­phy with a 6-3, 6-0 win over Virginie Razzano of France on Wednesday, setting up a Diamond Games quar­terfinal against Kim Clijsters. 
The third-seeded Williams would earn the trophy by becoming the first player to win the tournament three times in a five-year span. She was the champion in 2002 and 2003, then missed last year with a knee injury. 
''I'm feeling good and feeling healthy," Williams said. "It is my sec­ond tournament of the year and I'm on a good rhythm here." 
Clijsters, like Williams a former No. 1, knocked off fifth-seeded Nadia Petrova 7-5, 6-7 (3), 6-1. 
.-------~---­
Thursday, February 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
TRACK & FIELD 
Greene seeks redemption 
Bronze medalist in Athens looks to rebound after loss 
Associated Press 
BIHMINGIIAM, England -Evnry limn hn looks at his bronzn nwdal from thn Athnns Olympics, Maurkn Groenn is pained. 
Othors might rejoice over an Olympie medal, not Greene. 
lin is furious with himself'. lin is. aftnr all. one of the world's f'astnst men and he is anguishml that hn was unabln to successfully def'nnd his Olympic title. 
Bunning in unfavorabln lann snvnn in Athens, tho former world rncord-holdnr finished IJPhind follow American .Justin Gatlin and Frands Obikwnlu of Portugal in one of' the dos­nst and l'astnst races in Olym pie his tory. 
"It will nnvnr happen 
again, <ireene said Wednesday while preparing to return to the track at Friday's Norwich Union indoor meet. "I have a bronze medal from the Olympics and it really hurts to look at it." 
Greene talked himself up in thn days leading to that race, trying to become the first man since Carl Lnwis in 1984 and 1988 to win back-to-back Olympic 100-meter titles. Instead, he got caught in a race that marked the first tirnn in Olympic history that live men broke 1 0 seconds in the 100. 
Although he was just 0.02 seconds behind Gatlin in 9.87, Greene believes he lost the race and his title in the semi­finals. 
"It was my mistake," Greene said. "I lost it because of things that I did. That's how I feel. Of course it hurts. It never l'nels good to lose. 
"In my semifinal race I should have won the race but I was conserving energy," he added. "That's when Obikwelu came up and I took third because I didn't know he was there. I believe that's what put me in lane seven and, while I was in lane seven, I couldn't feel anything in the race. I just felt like I was running all alone. I believe if I was in the middle of the rae(~ I would have been able to react to people that came ahead of 

me." 

lie also won a silver medal in tho 400 rnlay. Despite a fast final leg, he couldn't catch Britain's Mark Lewis-Francis. 
Greene is set to face Lewis­France again when he goes into a 60-meter race at Birmingham as the world record-holder at 6.39 seconds. The three-time world 100 champion has another indoor meet in France, and then it's back to training for the out­door season with the goal of regaining his world title in August in llelsinki, Finland. 
Bruno's Pizza 
AFamiiV Tradition Since 1975 
2610 Prairie Ave. • Accepting reservations for J PW South Bend, IN 46614 • Seating available for 2 to 100 574-288-3320 • Graduation reservation 
• 
Come Join a Family Tradition 

• 
Every Tuesday and Thursday Student Buffet 


visit www.brunosplzza.com 

WHAT ARE YOU CALLED TO DO? MINISTRY & NOT-FOR--PROFIT 
tl.il 
Cf!NTHII FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
A panel l!f'a!wnni and alumnae reflect on the LiztepratL(m of'j~zit!J a/U) .tocial concem,t into life bey01u) Notre Dame. 
Sunday, February 20 4:00 -5:30 pm Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 
.............................] 
SpeakerJ 

Angela Anderson, MPP '00 I Research Manager Health Research and Educational Trust, Chicago 
Jay Freel Landry, MDiv '87 '97 Pastoral Associate Little Flower Catholic Church, South Bend 
Tammy Liddell, MDiv '91 Chaplain Boston College 

MLB 
Johnson arrives at Yankee camp 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, f'la.. -Handy Johnson fit in quite nicely on his first day at spring training with the New York Yankees. The Big Unit's head just made it under the ceiling of the dugout and narrowly avoided banging into the clock that hangs over the clubhouse entrance. . 
After getting lost en route to Legends Field, he met many of his new teammates and gave an introductory news confer­once Wednesday, cracking one-liners with the case of a llenny Youngman. 
What does he try to prove at spring training? 
"That I don't need a walker." 
His opinion on steroids? 
"I definitely know nutrition is a big part of staying healthy and being successful but. obvi­ously, it's something that I guess kind of goes beyond the normal things at GNC." 
llis thoughts on former Arizona teammate Curt Schilling, who eould pitch against him when the Yankees play Boston in the major league season opener on April 3? 
''I'm glad to see that I'm quickening up his rehab pro­gram because I see that he's pretty excited about opening 
day. I'm pretty exdted about that root canal J'vn got next week, too." 
And about his size? 
"I haven't shrunk. I'm still 6­foot-H) and I weigh about 2:n pounds. It's a good fighting weight." 
When he arrived in Nnw York last month for his physi­cal, he got into a sidewalk con­frontation with a television cameraman tailing him, tlwn snarled and shouted, earning front-page headlinos. Johnson started off his news confer­ence the following day with an apology. 
After walking into tho club­house Wodnosday, he jokod that lw didn't mind the two dozen or so roportnrs, saying there wen~ no cameramen around. 
At his news conference, he spoke softly as hn delivered the Big Schlick. 
"I don't think I'm moan," Johnson s.aid. "I think I'm pretty funny at times. As you've seen, I've got a lighter side of me." 
Johnson knows that he's viewed dif'ferently than any other player, and not just. because most. everyone olsn is looking up. Whenever lw's pitched, he said it's been a "Samson and Goliath" story, mixing the titles. 

Gala 2005 Greencroft Senior Center Benefit Featuring comedian Mark Russell 
Sat., March 19, 2005 
8:00 p.m. 

Goshen College Music Center Tickets are $35. On sale at Goshen College Welcome Center, 1700 S. 
Main, Goshen, (574) 535-7566 •  
A •  GRJENCR.OFT. www.greencroft.org  
Major sponsors:  

Bank One, Elkhart General Hospital, First State Bank, Goshen Health System, jayco, liberty Homes, MFB Financial, Nappanee Window, Sam's Club, Schrock Homes, and HomeCrest Cabinetry 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, February 17, 2005 
PGA 
Woods strives to return to No. 1 at Nissan Open 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Knocked off his perch for the last 24 weeks, Tiger Woods can return to No. 1 in the world this week at the Nissan Open, and it would appear the odds are in his favor. 
After all, he only has to fin­ish fourth against a field that is missing Phil Mickelson and Vijay Singh, and Woods has won three times and tied for third in his last four stroke-play tournaments. 
It all seems simple enough ­except for where the Nissan Open is played. 
Riviera Country Club, a clas­sic design off Sunset Boulevard, is a course Woods knows as well as any on the PGA Tour. 
It's the closest one to his hometown, and he first played here as a 16-year-old amateur in 1992. , 
But it also is the one place he can't seem to win. 

"No doubt about it, I'd like to win," Woods said Wednesday. "Hopefully, this will be the year." 
Riviera is the only PGA Tour course Woods has played at least four times as a pro with­out winning, and he has only come close one year. 
That was in 1999, when he finished two shots behind Ernie Els. 
His record will show top-1 0 finishes the last two years, but only because he closed with rounds of 64 and 65 after he was no longer a factor in the Nissan Open. 
Sam Snead never won the 
U.S. Open. Arnold Palmer never won a PGA Championship. Jack Nicklaus never won the Canadian Open despite seven runner-up finish­es. 
And then there's Woods and his hometown tournament. 
"I have some great memo­ries, some nervous memories," Woods said. "It's just been great over the years to see the same people out here. It's basi­cally my hometown. So to see my friends out here, it's a very special event." 

Maybe this will be the year he gives them something to cheer about. 
Woods is coming off a three­week break in which he went skiing and worked on his game, and managed to inch closer to No. 1 in the world with Singh missing the cut last week at Pebble Beach. 
THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS: 
NFL 
Buffalo releases QB Bledsoe 
west." leg.
Losman next in line 
Describing it as "a sad day," The injury and the Bills' late­
for starting position the 33-year-old wrapped up an season playoff run, in which inconsistent three-year tenure they won six of their last seven, with Buffalo in which he started prevented the team from giving
Associated Press 
all 48 games. Bills president Losman more opportunities last 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. -Tom Donahoe credited Bledsoe year, Donahoe said. Unwilling to accept a secondary for helping turn around a team "He helped us get to a good role with the Bufialo Bills, quar­that was 3-13 before Buffalo level," Donahoe s·aid of Bledsoe. terback Drew Bledsoe is seeking acquired him for a first-round "We want to go beyond that a new team for another shot at draft pick in a deal with New level." being a starter. England in April 2002. Coach Mike Mularkey said 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2005

Granting Bledsoe's request to "When Drew came here, we Losman's strong arm and 
DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
be cut, the Bills announced were in a big black hole with scrambling ability are better 
"AMERICA'S MOST WANTED:

Wednesday they will waive the this football team. And he cer­suited for his multidimensional 
WHY PEOPLE KILL"

12-year veteran Feb. 22, the tainly helped us get out of that," offensive philosophy. 
>7:f:!f:! P.H. ?iW'''ff, DEBAR T 0 L 0 
first day NFL teams are allowed Donahoe said. "He brought "We have a lot of confidence in >BROWNING CINEMA .~~ ~· PERFORMING ARTS CENTER to officially release players. respectability back to the Bills, J.P.," Mularkey said. "This is 
>OPEN TO TI-!E PUBLIC. NO CHARGE' BUT TiCKETS ~~E Rf.QUl~t.O. GET rtrKEl"S JN Af.iiJANCE ~T lHE Ot:IH~RlOlO PERFORHlN& RRTS 
f:±ill1NIVERSTTY OF

The decision came after the and he brought credibility to our obviously a big decision, but this 
CEN!I:.~ ·r lCI\f:'l' OFF ICE. AT 6Sl-2690. 
vqNOTREDAME

Bills informed him last week of football team." happens every year." "REENACTMENT. PRODUCTION, AND EDITING PROCESSES' their plans to give the starting What Bledsoe didn't bring was Bledsoe, who led the Patriots Co~p.. n;ors. C• ·liege. Pi' Art~ and Lcm:rn Uro·
>! :06-2•80 >ROOH 6043 
Jcq•.low.lwcc hudlcc.t\I.U luiti:niY<., Dcpanm...nt

job to J.P. Losman, Buffalo's sec­enough victories, finishing 23-25 to the Super Bowl after the 1996 >OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS 
"l'l:r.gli~h. lkp:mmwt .,fS.:...iulur.r. Fii"jt Yc:1r ond of two first-round draft with the Bills, or lead the team season, was traded to Buffalo "STORY DEVELOPMENT, A JOURNALISM FOCUS" tof :-.t11di~s. I:Kiiaua tlniwl"$ity Somh &mf~ 
S~.:hool uf Pul•lk and Emit't•rum:nd A!fail~.
>3:6@-4:30

choices last year. to its first postseason. berth since after losing his job to Tom Brady 
lntcrn:uioa:d Studcm Servia:~ .znd Acti~iti..~.
>ROOM 8643 
Marie 1! DcB;,:n• ,1,, G::u.;r ,;,r d~e Pt'!I'Os-mi!t~

"I completely disagree and 1999. in 2001. >OPEN TO ALL STUOEHTS 
Aruc, Son'C Dame S.:curit)' l-\•lkc: . 

can't understand their point of They came close last season at view," Bledsoe said during a 9-7, ·when the team was elimi­conference call from his home in nated from contention with a Oregon. "Do I think this is fair? season-ending loss to No, I don't think it's fair. But I'm Pittsburgh. also aware that that's how it Bledsoe's declining passing 
Why spend the winter months in South
works, and I understand that." numbers and lack of mobility led And it's nothing against the Bills to turn to Losman. 
Bend when you could be studying in...
Losman. Selected 22nd overall out of 
"I just don't see myself being a Tulane, Losman is a strong­backup in this league," Bledsoe armed and fleet-footed player said. "If it comes to that, you'll who made four mop-up appear­probably see me just tip my hat ances after missing the first half Athens and head back to the north-of last season with a broken left Berlin Puebla 

Youth Ministry Coordinator 
Want to use your talents to make a difference in the lives of teens? Do you live out your Catholic faith daily and possess a strong commitment to personal spirituality? Are you inter-· ested in developing, maintaining and evaluating progr!3-ms that reflect the eight components of Youth Ministry ­Advocacy, Catechesis, Community Life, Evangelization, Justice and Service, Leadership Development, Pastoral Care, Prayer and Worship? 
Holy Name of Jesus, a mid-size parish in the Indianapolis South Deanery, is looking for a full-time Youth Ministry Coordinator to meet the social, spiritual and active needs of our youth while inspiring traditional Catholic values and actions. 
Qualifications include a bachelor's degree and completion of (or willingness to complete) youth ministry certification. Salary will be commensurate with experience. To receive a packet with more information please send resume by February 28 to Youth Ministry Search Committee, C/0 Teri Duell, 89 North 17th Avenue, Beech Grove, IN 461 07; or tduell@holyname.cc 

Brazil 
Santiago Cairo Shanghai Monterrey Tokyo Moscow Beijing 
Application deadline for Spring '06 is May 1, 2005 
No foreign language requirements for Athens, Cairo or Tokyo 
Visit International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Thursday, February 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
because it will help us later in tho season."

Twins 
conti11ued from page 24 
6-1, 6-4. Following her lead, junior Kiki Stastny dnl'1~ated No. 93 Prenthi Mukundan 2-6, 6-3, 6-:~. 
A Notrn Damn victory seemod likely, as thn Irish maintairwd a 3-1 advantagn af'ler thrne singles rnatehos. llowever, the Irish saw that lead quickly slip away as llarvard tind the mateh 3-3 and pullnd ahnad for a 4-3 win after thn final singles rnatehes. 
"It was hard to lose to llarvard because wn were right thnrn with them," Buck said. "I think we just nnNind morn confidP~Jce. A win this weeknnd would hnlp us provo to ourselves that we can bn a top I 0 or 12 team." 
This wecknnd, the Irish will have plenty of' opportuni­ties to gain the confidence they need to spur themselves toward thnir ultimate goal ­an NCAA championship. 
"These next few matehes will be tough," coach Jay Louderback said. "But it's good to play tough teams 
Louderback believes this weekend's matches against Duke and North Carolina will condition tho doubles teams and strengtiHm the singles players for the competition they will encounter in the NCAA tournament. 
"We havn the depth that we need in doubles," Louderbaek said. "It's just a matter of' us getting that depth at singles. If we hav1~ all strong singles, it will be hard for a team to get four wins in singles against us." 
As tho toam fortifies its roster with each mateh, Buck says she believes there is nothing tho team eannot aecomplish. The team's attainment of' a top 10 or 12 ranking is imminent. 
"We have the potential to do a lot of' great things this season," Buck said. There's no reason we can't break into the top 10 or 12 this year. We just need to go into each match with a lot of con­fidence and knowing that we can win." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 


Eighth Annual 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles end losing streak 
performance. The sophomore grabbed 12 ol'fnnsivn
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
scored 14 points, six above rebounds, doubling tho 
Sports Writer 
her season average. Hornets' six offensive boards. 
The Belles prevailed despite With tho win, Saint Mary's 
Desperately needing a win, a dominant performance from moves into a tie for sixth place Saint Mary's delivered one of the confernnen's prn­with Kalamazoo in tho conf'nr­Wednesday night in a crucial mier players, Kalamazoo's ence standings. The Bellns, conference road game. The Ashley Hiley. Hiley had 26 howevnr, own the tie-brnaker, Belles defeated Kalamazoo 58-points and grabbed 14 having bnaten thn llornnts 50, ending a five-game losing rebounds in the losing ol'f'ort. twice on the season. streak. Coming into the game, Saint Saint Mary's controls its own 
Saint Mary's jumped on the Mary's stressed the impor­destiny with just onn ganw to llornets early, taking a 32-19 tance of controlling the play. With a win Saturday at advantage into the locker boards. home against last plaee Olivet, room. Unlike past games, the "We have been getting out the Belles will f'inish sixth in Belles refused to let their lead rebounded the past few games the MIAA. If' Saint Mary's slip away in the second half. and that has been a key rae­loses, it will need Alma to boat 
Senior forward Emily tor," guard Bridget Boyce said. the Hornets Saturday to main­Creachbaum led Saint Mary's The Belles reversed that tain control of' the sixth spot. with 10 points and eight trend Wednesday. Saint Mary's rebounds. Point guard Bridget had 41 rebounds to Contact Kevin Brennan at Lipke turned in an impressive Kalamazoo's 32. The· Belles kbrenna4@nd.edu 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Illinois wins their 26th game 
Wednesday night. Geary Claxton led the Nittany
Powell Jr. scores 21 
"There's not much stress Lions with 19 points. No one else 
on 10-of-10 shooting there," coaeh Bruee Wobnr said. reaehed double ligures. 
"You might think it's a looney bin Even with thn lower bowl l'ull,in the Illini victory and not a stressful tnam." rally townls draping every snat Not with easy wins like this and the promise of fren ehkknn Associated Press one. wings l'or nvery fan if the Nittany Illinois (26-0, 12-0 Big Ten) Lions could pull off the upset, 
STATE COLLEGE, PA. -topped the school record of 25 nothing rattled the lllini. Illinois expeets to have much consecutive wins which was set Illinois was the first top-ranknd more important wins the rest of over three seasons from team to play at the 9-year-old the season. That's not going to February 1914 to February Bryen Jordan Center and the first stop the lllini from enjoying 1916. Certainly, this year's streak No. 1 team to visit Statn College every victory that puts them in is more impressive-it's the sinen Penn State played Indiana the record book. fourth best start ever by a Big in Hec llall on Fob. IJ, 1993. 
Hoger Pow!~ II Jr. went 1 0-for-Ten team. In that one, coach Bob Knight 1 0 from the field and scored 21 "Streaks aren't important," and the lloosiers barnly es1:apnd points and Dee Brown added 19 Weber said. "Winning the Big with an HH-H4 win in double points to lead the top-ranked Ten, getting the high send, overtime. lllini to their 26th straight win, advaneing March into April is Twelve years latnr, thorn was 83-63 over Penn State on what's important. But at the no such exdtmnent li>r the honw 
Thomas Aquinas Symposium  
"Edith Stein Encounters Thomas Aquinas"  
Students Especially Welcome  
Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College  
Saturday, February 19, 2005  
2:30p.m.  "Edith Stein: Contemplative Scholar" Constance FitzGerald, OCD, Baltimore Carmel  
3:30p.m.  Refreshments  
4:00p.m.  "Edith Stein Encounters Thomas Aquinas" Sarah R. Borden, Wheaton College  

Sponsored by the Joyce McMahon Hank Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology With the support of the Center for Spirituality and the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership 
Free and open to the public 

same time, you've got to feel proud about what you've accom­plished." 
Brown said the reeord was niee, but the lllini's ultimate goal is a national title. 
"It's excellent, but I like my rings," he said. "I got a ring last year (Big Ten tournament( and it was beautiful." 
Penn State (7-17, 1-10) was just another easy victim, falling to 0-1 () all-time against top­ranked teams. 
crowd. 
The lllini seornd tlw first sevnn points, then Brown had two straight steals, turning one into a l'astbreak layup and anothnr into a nicn assist for Luther llnad, and the rout was on. Deron Williams and Brown hit consnl:u­tive 3-pointers for a 3S-19 ltmd and the lllini cruised to a 52-30 halftime lead. 
"I think we broke their spirit down the stretch in the first half," Weber said. 

.. 
. .' 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 17, 2005 
take them. 

team sacrificed baskets under­''I've had really good players," 
Not only do they shoot 3-point­

neath to contain the Hoyas' Brey said. "When I got here, I
History 
Hoyas 
ers well, but they shoot free 

Princeton offense. inherited a good group. There 
continued from page 24 throws as well, another history 
continued from page 24 "We were good about not get­was a little bit of juice, and I 
lesson from Wednesday night. 

ting backdoored," Brey said. think we added something. I've 
too much to overcome. The Irish had been struggling 

ting only one turnover. The "What are you gonna give up? had great assistant ... a great 
Not only was it too much to getting to the charity stripe, but 

senior kept the Irish offense You're gonna give up some post staff and, here, I've had really 
patient to match the tempo of moves. You've just got to eat good guards, including [head of
overcome, but every time the Wednesday night it was very 
the slower Georgetown attack. that." basketball operations Martini
Hoyas did make a run, the Irish giving. Against the methodical 
"Coach [Breyl is right," I-Ioyas' leading scorer Brandon Inglesby."
got that big basket to keep Princeton-like offense that 
momentum on their side. Georgetown runs, Brey wanted 
Thomas said. "We weren't on Bowman scored 17 points, high­On Wednesday, Brey tied John 
In those disappointing losses his offense to be patient and get 

edge, and we weren't playing er than his 15.3 average, but 14 Jordan (1951-64) by reaching 
like we needed this win to get of them came in the game's fmal 100 wins in his first 151 total
to Syracuse, they couldn't do good shots. 
that. But letting the shot clock run 
into the tournament." seven minutes when Notre Dame games with Notre Dame. The 
Wednesday night the Irish down means not always getting 

Notre Dame finished the Iirst was making free throws and only coach to reach 100 wins in 
showed they learned from those an open look. That's why driving 
half on a 19-7 run and rode negating any late-game run. a shorter span of time was 
missed opportunities. to the basket and getting to the 
Thomas and Chris Quinn (18 "Regardless of game situations George Keogan (1923-43), who 
And if Notre Dame is going to free throw line was important. 

points, three assists) the rest of and the schedule and the spot­earned the milestone in 130 
the way to victory. light, our team, we have a games.
do anything in big-time games And the Irish took advantage 
"We were able to scrap back a chance to win every game,"
when the calendar turns over in -to the tune of 26-of-29. 
little bit," Georgetown head Thomas said. "We're in it to the NOTRE DAME 70,
11 days, it's going to be defense However, the biggest lesson 
coach John Thompson III said. last second, and that's gonna pay GEORGETOWN 64 at the
that wins those games. Look no from Wednesday night corre­
"But against a good team on the dividends down the road. JOYCE CENTER
further in the history book to the sponds with the team's attitude. 
road, it's hard to get back into Georgetown maintains a one­
Sweet 16 loss two years ago With the bubble bursting on 
against Arizona for evidence. Selection Sunday last year, the 
the game, especially with the game lead over the Irish for fifth NOTRE DAME (15-7, 7-5) 
Cornette 2-6 0-0 6. Falls 2-8 7-7 13,
Switch to the offensive end of Irish aren't about to get excited 

leadership they have." place in the Big East, though 
Francis 4-10 3-3 11, Thomas 5-13 9-10
By the midway point of the Notre Dame has Connecticut and 21, Quinn 4-4 6-7 18, Cornett 0-0 1-2 1,
the ball where the Irish made about one win, just like they 
1 0-of-20 3-pointers. They've rid­weren't overjoyed after defeat­
second half, the Hoyas had Pittsburgh remaining on its Kurz 0-0 0-0 0, Latimom 0-2 0-0 0, Carter 
den the 3-point line all year, and ing Connecticut or Boston 
matched their total for the first schedule to further advance past 0-0 0-0 0. 
half with the score at 40-34 Irish higher teams in the conference
it looks like they're going to College. 
GEORGETOWN (16-7, 8-4) 
have to the rest of the season. Yes, it was the fourth win of 
and 10:34 to play. A Notre Dame standings. Bowman 6-12 4-5 17, Green 3-6 2-2 9, 
The inside game continues to the season over a top-50 RPI 

run sent the Irish up 12 with Notes Hibbert 6-10 3-5 15, Cook 5-8 0-0 11, 
be inconsistent. Torin Francis team, but five games still remain 
8:04 to play on a Colin Falls 3-+ With Wednesday's win over Wallace 1-5 0-0 3, Reed 2-5 0-0 4, Owens 
1-2 0-0 2, Crawford 1-1 0-0 3.
got 11 points and nine on the regular season schedule. 
pointer, his second in the last Georgetown, Mike Brey earned 
rebounds, but he was hardly a Brey said there isn't a lot of 
two games. But Georgetown his 1OOth career win as head 1st 2nd Total 
dominant force. Georgetown anxiety about the postseason, 
would get no closer than a six­eoach of Notre Dame. NOTRE DAME :10 40 70 
didn't provide the matehups to and he wasn't "rah-rah" in the 
point deficit the rest of the way "I can't believe I've been here Georgetown 17 47 64 
with 14 seconds remaining. that long," Brey said. "But I
have two post players on the locker room after the game. 
3-point goals: Notre Dame 10-20 (Quinn
Georgetown and Notre Dame thank [athletic director] Dr. 4-4, Thomas 2-4, Cornette 2-5, Falls 2-7),
floor at the same time, hence That's because Notre Dame's 
Dennis Latimore's three minutes remember last year. 
entered Wednesday night's game White for coming to get me out Georgetown 5-17 (Crawford 1-1, Green 1­
of playing time. Repeating_ that history isn't 
ranked No. 1 and No. 2, respec­of Newark, Delaware." 1, Bowman 1-3, Cook 1-4, Wallace 1-5). 
Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 
tively, in conference scoring Brey went 99-52 in five years
Regardless of the performance something the Irish want. 

23 (Franeis 9), Georgetown 30 (Bowman
of the post players, the strength 
defense. The Hoyas had given up as head coach at Delaware 7, Green 7). Assists: Notre Dame 11 
only 59.7 points per game in Big before coming to Notre Dame. (Thomas 5), Georgetown 15 (Green 5).
of this teain is in its guards. The opinions expressed in this 
Throughout most of the season, column are those ofthe author 
East play, while the Irish had Prior to his stint with the Blue Total fouls: Notre Dame 15, Georgetown 
this team has climbed on the and not necessarily those ofThe 
surrendered an average of60.9. Hens, the newest member of the 23. 
backs of Chris Thomas, Chris Observer. 
Georgetown outscored Notre Irish 100-win club spent eight 
Quinn and Colin Falls and rid­Contact Matt Lozar at 
Dame 28-6 in the paint, but Irish years as an assistant at Duke Contact Pat Leonard at 
den them as far as the trio could mlozar@nd. edu 
head coach Mike Brey said his University.. pleonard@nd.edu 
physically and he's also come a long way mentally," Poulin said. "He's carried the load for us basically through the bulk of his whole career." 
Poulin talked about his goalie arriving as a freshman, when the team was coming off a rebuilding year similar to the season, and having to adjust to playing hock­ey and going to school at the same time. Cey had been out of hockey for two. years. 
He also discussed Cey's future in professional hoekey. 
"He'll have an opportunity to play, there is no question. Too many people have seen him play too well over the years," Poulin said. "He'll have an opportunity to play professional hockey and then what he does with that will [be up to] him." 
Poulin was not the only mem­ber of the Irish hockey program to speak about Cey's importance to the team. 
Senior captain Cory McLean could not say enough about how vital Cey has been, despite the team's ongoing struggles. 
"You've got to give him credit because he's kept us in every game so far this year," McLean said. "It's just huge when you've got a goalie playing real well. It's been a tough season for us but he keeps us going, [and he] gives us a chance to win every night." : 
The team has time to gain some momentum heading into the CCI-lA playoffs. With the unique playoff format, every team makes the playoffs, so if the Irish were to get on a run, any­thing could happen. 

It will not be easy with the remaining two series against Michigan and Michigan State, but if there is one person that could be trusted in giving his team the best chance to win, and establish something down the stretch -look no further than Cey. 
"I just come to the rink every day and I can't pay attention to the struggles everyone else is having," Cey said. "I have to do my part, because this is what I want to do with my life and I have to give the best I ean." 
In a season full of disappoint­ment and discouragement, Cey is one thing Irish fans do not have to worry about. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

Goalie 
continued from page 24 
out. 

It would be easy to resign one­self to losing, knowing that pure ability alone is going to warrant a fair share of phone calls from NIIL personnel in the coming months. 
But Cey, a senior and an undis­puted leader on this year's rebuilding team, does not have that attitude. 
The goalie from Wilkie, Saskatchewan, who Irish coach Dave Poulin describes as having a "very dry sense of humor," is quick to credit the heart of the Irish team whenever his personal accolades are mentioned. He's even quicker to mention the pos­sibility of what can still be saved from this season. 
"We still think that if we make the Joe Louis arena, this season will not be a complete disaster even though our record is disas­trous right now," Cey said. "If we make a little run in the playoffs, it softens the blow a little bit." 
Cey's statistics are impressive. Going into the weekend series against Michigan, he has a 2.74 goals against average and .911 save percentage. 
But his personal demeanor and his team leadership are more impressive than his numbers. 
Cey is a warrior, the type of player a coach would want in the goal every night. He is confident when teams attack the net, and when a shot gets by him it is rarely just his fault. 
Pretty good for a guy who did­n't play goalie until he was 14 years old. 
"He was a big time forward," Poulin said, with a laugh. "A pesky winger." 
Asked about Cey's value to the team this season, the Irish coach went a step further and described Cey's importance to the hockey program throughout his four years at the University. 
"He's come such a long way 

G-reat Food! G-reat Fun! 

#} Sports Jar in South Jend 2046 South Jend Ave -Across frot\1 Martins Plaza 
272-1766 

TuEs: CoLLE~E Nt~Hr-UJ 6-SPEctALs (srARrtN~ Ar •tom Wed: Live TRIVIA Night -Jrit1g your teatlts -Prizes THURS: UJ -Pet1t1Y Night -1~ Specials startit1g at 
9:00PM 

Thursday, February 17, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
,.--------------., 
THE LAST ELECTION WAS INCREDIBLY CLOSE. THAT'S WHY IT'S SO IMPORTANT TO VOTE. 

PEANUTS 
«> 1992 United Feah.Me Syndk:ale, 
SCOTT ADAMS 
E ,.--------~-----.,~ ---------------.
*
~ 
@J 
~ ~ 
~ 
E 
0 
t.l 
t: 
Q) 
.c 
'C 
SMART, WELL-INFORMED PEOPLE WERE EVENLY DIVIDED. THEREFORE, LOGICALLY, THAT PROVES 
THAT INTELLIGENCE IS NOT A FACTOR, SO VOTING IS ABSURD. 

L-----"""---......l.~--"....IIL-....1 

~ 
.; 
g 
~ 
t 
~ 
~ ~ 
g 
'g 
o!. 
~ 
THEN YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO COMPLAIN I'M ABOUT THE PRETTY RESULT. SURE I 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
THAT'S M'l BROTHER .. ALTI10U6H I SOMETI WONDER IF THERE WASN'T A MIX-UP AT THE THE DAY I WAS BORN .. 
\ t.-/~ (//..J..-,J/ 'lh' 
) 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
UNGTS 
± 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

GEWIH 
rxJ 
www.jumble.com 
Jumbles:
Yesterday's I 
Answer: 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


WHAT THE: SHE:P­HE:i<!O 010 WHE:N THE: MOTHE:i<! AND l-AMBS 5 TRAVW Fi<!OM THE: FL.OC.K. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

ARDOR MIRTH . JOCKEY RANCID 
When the knight made a snide remark, it resulted in a-"CRACK" IN HIS ARMOR 
---=--~================================================================================================== 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Uke the hair under a comb-over 7 Rare blood 
type, informally 11 Illicit drug inits. 14 Soup holder 15 Ex-attorney 
general 16 -di-dah 17 Vigilant 19 Brown, e.g. 20 Sheet music 
instruction 21 Rebel-turned­
national leader 22 Stir 23 Carol 
contraction 24 Certain design 
transfer 27 Caterer's aid 29 Cheri of "Scary 
Movie" 
30 Doesn't work anymore, informally 
34 Self-replicating things 
35 Quickly ... and a hint to 17-, 24-, 45-and 55-Across 
37 Cowboy's domain 39 Foreign correspondent? 40 Seriously winded 41 Cheaper now 45 Top-rated sports group 50 Ancient law 51 Pack _ (quit) 52 Siouan Indian 53 Little dog of old Disney cartoons 54 Western defense grp. 
55 Was victorious, but not by a knockout 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
":"'T-=-r=-r.,., 
58 "Lord, is _?" 59 Pharaoh's deity 60 Behind, so to 
speak 61 Google's realm, 
with "the" 62 Chapeau holder 63 Stimulates, 
slangily 
DOWN 1 Not highly valued furs 2 "Meet the Press" guest, 
maybe_ 3 Excite 4 Actor 
Auberjonois 5 Realize 6 Coast Guard 
officer: Abbr. 7 Brown bear a "Cool!" 9 Noted 
bankruptcy of 2001 
10 Jupiter, e.g. 
11 Epoch from two to five million years ago 

II!--··~~~~ .;,"1~~~·· 12 d'oeuvre:ExpensiveVar.hors -=+:::+:-:,+.;,+=! 13 1970's sitcom ~..;+..,:.+:;+:;:;.l 18 Ronnie &the Daytonas hit l!lt-7+:::+.:-1 22 Iterates 24 Arch sites -:+-:-r.=w;.r:+=+::--1-:-1 25 Hashana 
26 Plant with a bitter root 
-=-+=-=+=+=+:-i 28 Welcomes, as a new year 

WILLSHORTZ 

31 Cool, once 38 Stir 49 Have 32 Lines of homage 42 Some dresses 
53 Cousin of 33 Bridge capacity 43 Undisturbed Rover unit 
44 Lives 
55 Angkor_

35 Stopping by to 46 See 47-Down (Cambodian say hello 
47 With 46-Down, landmark) 36 Over words finishing 
56 Slob

"Ready_,
37 Call to police headquarters, 57 "It's Alright" 
here " maybe -48 Not a soul singer 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELimRJTIES IIORN ON THIS I>AY: Stcftimi Bmss, IJ; John McEnro~·. 46; lce-T, 47; William Katt. 54 llappy Birthday: This is the year for you to make your'moves ami gel ill the groove. You will have a sparkle that will help you attract an interest in whatever you pursue. You don't have to go it alone this year hut you do have to share your creative ideas. thoughts and intentions. Your numhers arc 6, 19, 2H, 32, 35. 41 ARIES (March 21-April 19): A tical can he made, hut hcli>rc signing make sure you are getting everything you want and that you aren't giving too much away in return. Someone you meet will he ahle to help you in the future. A partnership will tum out heller than you imagined. **** TAURUS (Aprii"20-May 20): Money mailers will stand out today. You can make your life easier financially hy making the right moves. Don't say you can't he fore you try. You must create your own opportunities if you want to gel ahead or make changes that will hring long-tem1 results. *** . GEMINI <May 21-.Junc 20): Excitement will fill your tlay. Love. ronumcc or meeting new people will he high on your list. You will have some fahulous ideas that can equate to a new look and attitude. Travel will result in an experience that teaches you something very valuahle. **" CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Take a moment to make the much-needed changes at home. Once you have this task out of the way, you will feel free to pursue something new. Money or legal matters should he taken care of today. The results you get will he in your favor. *** LEO (,July 2J-Aug. 22): Partnerships should he at the forefront of your mind today. Ask yourself if you arc happy with the UJTangements you have with other people and. if you aren't, make any changes required. You can hcnefit if you collaborate with someone who can offer what you can't. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may he eager to get to the hollom of things, hut haste will definitely make waste today. Slow down, he ohscrvant and don't think twice ahout Jelling your perfectionist quality lead the way. Strive for the hesl and you'll gel it. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You have so much going for you today. Put all your cards on the table and go for hroke. You have Lady Luck in your comer and the intuitive wisdom that will lead you down. a very fortunate path. Don'tlet the lillie things hold you hack. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Check out an investment opportunity. A change is in order; if you make the right moves, you will he ahle to follow through with what you know in your heart you should he doing. Today can he pivotal, so don't let indecision be your downfall.*** SAGJTTARilJS (Nov. 22-De<·. 21): Act fast and reap the rewards. Money, love and health may all he at issue, hut if you play your cards right. you will heal the odds on all counts. You have what it takes. hut if you don't finish what you start today, the tahlcs could turn. *** · CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Don'llose sight of what everyone around you is doing. It will he crucial that you stay on top of anything and anyone that matters to you. Efficiency and control coupled with an imaginative and inventive mind will hring the best results. *** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feh. HI): You can have it all if you arc ready to pursue new people, places and activities. Being a participant will lead to personal or professional relationships. Your ideas may he a lillie ahead of the times, hut you appear to he on the verge of selling a new trend. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may feel as if everything is piling up around you. Restlessness is forcing you to look for alternatives. Be careful that you don't give up something that could he of use to you in tlu: future. Caution will he your best friend.** Birthday Hahy: You arc a thinker and a doer. You are always in the middle of whatever is going on, giving advice and helping whoever needs a hand. 
THE OBSERVER 

Puhlished Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ____________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, February 17, 2005 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Grinding it out 
ND shoots 26-of-29 from the line in win over Georgetown 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Spons Editor 
This time, the Irish held on. 

After losing two of itc; last three games by relinquishing second­halfleads, Notre Dame (15-7, 7-5 Big East) built a 30-17 halftime advantage and made 26-of-29 free throws to defeat Georgetown, 70-64, at the Joyce Center Wednesday night. 
The Irish finished with 11 assists to 1 0 turnovers and made just 39.5 percent of their field goals, but Notre Dame also held the Hoyas (16-7, 8-4) to the sec­ond lowest opponent point total for a half this season -first is Above, guard Chris Thomas Charleston Southern with 16 points in a half Nov. 26. drives to the hoop in Notre 
The win added to the resume of an Irish team focused on return­Dame's 70-64 victory over ing to the NCAA tournament. 
"We have four big top-50 RPI Georgetown. At left, guardwins at home, with [wins against] UConn, B.C. and Georgetown," Chris Quinn fires a bounce Irish point guard Chris Thomas said. "So it's good that we've pass into the paint. established ourselves." 
Thomas led Notre Dame with 
•

21 points on 5-of-13 shooting, dishing five assists and commit-PHOTOS BY 
see HOYAS/page 22 RICHARD FRIEDMAN 
Irish learn from their past mistakes to earn latest victory 
Turning back the clock wasn't just for ESPN Classic Wednesday night. 
For the Irish, there were a number of history lessons in the win over Georgetown. 
In the first half, Mike Brey came out with the game plan to play suffocat­ing defense and build an early lead. I Ie knew the 


Hoyas' offense could-Sports Writer n't overcome a double-digit Irish advantage. 
Brey's plan was dead-on. Holding a team without a field goal for 10 minutes, 34 seconds will make any game plan look genius. But Brey knew from earlier this season -think about the Indiana win -that he could rely on his team's defense to win a game. 
The Hoyas got hot in the sec­ond half-shooting 63 percent -but the first-half deficit was 
see HISTORY/page 22 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Talented squad still striving for success 
No. 2 Thompson doubles pair leads team this season 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Talent-laden. Tenacious. Team-oriented. 
The No. 21 women's tennis team possesses the character­istics of a top-10 team. Notre Dame's roster is sprinkled with ranked players -sopho­more Catrina Thompson has attained a No. 69 ranking in singles and a No. 2 ranking in doubles with sister Christian, while Brook Buck is ranked No. ~5 in singles. 
In addition, the Irish (4-2) have already demonstrated their staying power this sea­
son, upsetting No. 20 Michigan and collecting wins against three other ranked teams. 
But although the Notre Dame has had its share of suc­cess this season, the team still finds itself wanting more. 
"We've had a pretty good start this season," freshman Brook Buck said. "We have the potential to break into the top 10 or 12 this year and I really, really hope we do. There have been a couple of matches we could've won, but we just couldn't close it out." 
Last week's meet against No. 17 Harvard was one of those matches. 
After claiming the doubles point, No. 69 Catrina Thompson registered the first Irish victory in singles, upset­ting No. 27 Courtney Bergman 
see lWINS/page 21 
HOCKEY 

Cey's play brilliant for Irish 
Senior goaltender continues to perform at a top level 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
SportS Writer 

In a 3-3 deadlock midway through the third period in last Friday night's game against Ferris State, the Bulldogs con­trolled the puck in the Irish zone. 
A Ferris State forward ripped one at Morgan Cey from the slot -a shot that the Irish senior goalie easily deflected. 
The puck deflected off Cey to a player on the left circle, facing the net. 
If someone blinked they may have missed the ensuing shot, but Cey reacted perfectly and made an impressive glove save -a play that not only brought the crowd to life, but that epito­mized the goalie's season to date. 

When everything else seems lost, Cey has been ~he one con­sistency for the Irish all season. 
But with that said, it is not easy being the goalie on a 5-21­6-hockey team. 
With such a disappointing record -especially for a team coming off their first tourna­ment berth in the school's histo­ry -it would be easy to point fingers, especially after doing everything to keep the team competitive night in and night 
see GOALIE/page 22 


w  SMC BASKETBALL  PGA  ~Fl  MlB  CYCLING  MlB  
Col z :3 =  The Belles defeated MIAA rival Kalamazoo 58-50, moving to a 10-14 overall record.  Tiger Woods is hoping to regain his No. 1 world ranking this weekend at the Nissan  The Buffalo Bills released quarterback Drew Bledsoe, opting to go with second year  Randy Johnson reported to Yankees training camp, getting laughs in the process.  Lance Armstrong will race in the Tour de France this summer, going for his seventh  Cardinals' manager Tony LaRussa admits that he was aware of Jose Canseco's streroid  
c:c  Open.  player J.P Losman next season.  straight victory.  use while coaching in Oakland.  
!:i  page 21  page 20  page 20  page 19  page 14  page 14  
I  o •  





