
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Changes to Honor Code underway 
Following survey, officials and students call academic integrity a difficult issue to analyze 
By TERESA fRALISH 
New' Writer 
When neonomics professor David Huccio announced to his micronconomics class that cheat­ing had occurred on a recent exam, every student in the 150­J>Prson section listened as he proc1wdnd to sp11nd the entire rlass discussing academic intPgrity. 
"I rlncirlPd to spPak ... about tlw prohl!~m of dwaling at Notre l>anw and what I perceived to be tlw g1~rwral complacency of' stu­denL'> in thP course." he said. 
Huccio was concerned about student apathy-but he did not expect the response he got. 
"I was pleasantly surprised by the student reaction, many of whom spoke up in class, met with me outside of class, or sent me e-mail messages indicating that they understood the issue," he said. 
For all the debates over llonor C~dc revisions and turnitin.com -an online service that allows Notre Dame faculty to check stu­dent papers for plagiarism ­academic integrity ranks low as a subject for dining hall conver­sation. 
"It's maybe a bigger problem than students realize-we don't talk about it that much," senior Megan Casserlie said. 
Casserlie  serves  on  the  
University  Honor  Code  
Committee,  a student, faculty  

and administrator group that oversees the code and its imple­mentation. 
The current llonor Code, which the University periodically revises, commits students to a high level of honesty and requires that they report any cheating they observe. 
Still, administrators have often wondered about the level of cheating at Notre Dame, although a variety of factors and underreporting previously made it impossible to compile an accu­rate campus-wide picture of' cheating -and difficult to design remedies. 
Cheating at Notre Dame 
Last fall, the University partici­pated in a national study on atti­tudes toward cheating conducted by Duke University's Center for Academic Integrity, of which Notre Dame and many other national institutions are mem­
see HONOR/page 6 
Springtitne attracts prospective students 
By KATIE PEHRY 
N<w' Writer 
Whilt~ most memlwrs of the Notn~ Danw community havn alrnady bngun pn•paralion filr the annual 1md-of-senwstnr exodus, ollwrs are bracing for a large inllux of studmlL'i on campus. 
"This wnnk is our busiest week of visits for admittnd students," Univnrsity admissions eounselor .Jill Borun· said. 
Notm Damn will welcomn ·tfi5 famili!~s during tlw final wnek of dass1•s. By th1~ end of April, morn than 400 fiunilins will haw visited tlw Uniwrsity during this month aloru•. Borufl"said. 
Till' OITirl' of Und1~rgraduat1• .-\dmissions providl's many sPrvic­I'S li1r admiltt>d studnnL'i. 
Tlu• studt>nt's litmily is giwn llw opportunity to llll'<'l with admis­sions cotrrlst'lors for a personal llll'nling to addrnss spncifk quns­tions, go on an nxclusiv1~ campus tour and rl'lJUI~Sl a lwst if thny 
sec PROSPECTS/page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Dome regilding sticks to schedule 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
The unexpected dusting of snow that sprinklnd campus last weekend did not affect the regilding of tlw Goldon Dome, despito the proce­dum's heavy reliance on idnal weather, said Jim Lyphout, vice president of' Business Operations. 
Since the procedure takes place during tlw summer months in ord!'r to avoid tlw chance or frost, which Executive Vice President John Afllerk Craves has said could potPntially caus1~ major darn­age to tlw rngilding, thP weekend arrival of fall-like weather promptl~d some to fear the worst. 
But Lyphout said tlwre was a "zero percent chance" that the Dornr would not be fully gilded when the scafliJiding is removed for graduation on May 15. 
"We will complete the t.m;ks on schedule," Lyphout said . 
The n1gilding process began on March I!i. Intens1~ opposition from the senior class caused the administra­tion to agree to partially remow the srafl"olding down to tlw Donw's basP for gradu­ation . 
Lyphout said rontrartors will bPgin n•moving llw sral'­fillding on May (J acr.ording to srlwdul!~. allowing th1• DumP to b1• fully uncown•d llw fol­lowing we11k li1r graduation. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Group votes to purchase NDBay 
By KAREN lANGLEY 
Nt•w,Writer 
In rnsponsn to tlw graduation of llw NDBav.com foundnrs. the Council or" HPpri'SPntatiVI'S vowd al Monday's IIWPting to purrhas1~ tlw WPb silP as a stu­!li~nt-usnd book Pxrhangn. The H-7 vot1~ concludl'd a two-wnnk dPI>all' about llw bl'st plan !'or pmviding tlw stud1ml body with a way to pun:hasn usnd books onlinn. 
T lw Co u n c i J's disc us s i o 11 s nxamined tlw options of pur­chasing NI>Bay from its founders. Chris Kelly and Aaron Wnnger, or accepting an 
see COR/page 8 

Jimmy Flaherty, left, Darrell Scott, Emily Chin and Mike Marshall contemplate the acquisition of the NDBay Web site. 

CAMPus LIFE CouNCIL 
Metnbers pass ne-w diversity resolution 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council pass!'d a resolution to continue discussion regarding diversity and ofl"ered suggestions for next year's Council at il'i final meeting or the 2004-2005 school year Monday afternoon. 
Former student body presi­dent Adam Istvan also updated the Council on the progression of the security task force-a com­mittee seeking to establish a stronger communication between the South Bend Police Department and students. ldPally, the SBPI> would e-mail studnnl<; to alert them of crimPS taking plaw ofl" campus. 
"WP spokP with IDirnctor of SPcurity I l'lril .Johnson. and hP has PVPrything ready to go," Istvan said. "W1~'V1' got South Bend l'olicP Departnwnt on board, map files, graphics and the database for Jan e-mail list]." 
Istvan told members the plan would be best impl1~111ented when the next school year begins in the /ill!. 
"If we start1~d it now, it would 
sec CLC/pagc 9 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


I love LaFortune 

Some places you have to experience firsthand. I've heard Europe is like that. You can see it in the movies, maybe get a postcard from a friend studying abroad, but it's really difficult to imagine the Eitfel Tower or St. 
Kate Gales 

Peter's Square without being there in person. 
Associate

I think rock con­certs are like that. Sports Editor An Incubus concert, for example, is something that's difficult to explain to the uninitiated. Is it accept­able to wear khaki and argyle to an Incubus show? Of course. It's all about the attitude. 
On campus. maybe the Dome is like that. Perhaps the Basilica, the Stadium or Touchdown Jesus elicit similar responses. It's hard to imagine a Notre Dame football game from the student section without actually being there. 
But out of everywhere on campus where seeing is believing, I think LaFortune on any weekday night is the experience that is impossible to convey with words. picture or an other techno­logical invention. 
Midnight is probably the peak time for LaFortune aficionados. This is when quarter dogs go on sale, group meetings are concluding and people are making quick "LaFun runs" for a midnight snack. 
However, there are people for whom LaFortune is an expedition that will last until the Huddle closes at 4 a.m. It's more than a waste of waking hours and a drain of your Flex points. It will ruin your sleeping habits and double -at least-the time it takes you to do any remotely productive work. 
But LaFmtune is a mecca for those who value the social networking of col­lege. There's always companionship when you're pounding out a paper in the computer cluster or pulling an all­nighter outsi9e Irish Gardens. 
Wireless networks and laptops have made LaFortune a place where you can go and convince yourself that this time, you'llleave by 2 a.m. and finish all your homework. In my experience, this is rare, although I am probably among LaFortune's least productive students. 
However, LaFortune is unique among campus study hangouts. Its closest cousin is probably Reekers, which offers 24 hour service and is conducive to group work, although not convenient for those not on the North Quad. CoMo boasts free popcorn and quarter foun­tain beverages, but closes inconveniently at random times. 
The library is, in a word, depressing. The quietness is intimidating and the intense rules regarding what food and drink containers aren't acceptable is daunting, at best. 
This leaves me with LaFortune, my home away from home. Conveniently located about 10 feet away from my dorm. LaFortune offers Starbucks, the Huddle and Subway-all open until at least 1 a.m. After a while, you start to recognize the faces of those who fre­quent the area. How can you not love a place of laughter, food. fun and Jimmy John's deliveries? I can't imagine. Despite the possibly adverse effect LaFortune has had on my grades, it's still the venue of choice for my studying needs. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Duo ro a production error, the headline on the baseball article in Monday's edition ofThe Observer incorrectly said three weekend games were delayed against Rutgers. Only two games were delayed and they were against Villanova. The Observer regrets the error. 
Tuesday, April 26, 2005

The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS NOTRE DAME'S BIGGEST DRAW TO PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS? 







Aubrey Candler  Avery Mortimer  Gabriel Samudio  John Larson  John Mrugala  
Starbucks employee  junior St. Ed's  sophomore Keenan  freshman Stanford  freshman O'Neill  
"Football; statistically, we get more  "Definitely not the weather. "  "The diversity. "  "Good financial aid and great study abroad. "  "The aura of Notre Dame."  

prospective students after having a good season. " 


DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 
Brent Bruish, left, and Chelse Prather check out the work of Rod Dugal, Brian Kakas and Bill Kremer Monday. The graduate students are selling their pottery in front of Riley Hall. 
OFFBEAT 

Flesh chunks found in Iowa water lines 
CARROLL, Iowa -City officials are perplexed over the discovery of mysterious chunks of flesh that have been clogging up city water lines. A month ago, city officials sent a hunk of meaty-fatty tissue to the Iowa Department of Natural Resources for identification. 
As they wait for those results, three similar chunks of fleshy material were found on Thursday in another water main during routine flushing, Public Works Director Randy Krauel said. 
TODAY 
a:: 

A city worker discovered the blockage when a dif­fuser on a fire hydrant became clogged, Krauel said. 
Additional flushing removed two other chunks from water mains, he said. 
"Again, we're really not sure what it is," he said. "The pieces kind of looked like the first one. There was no hair and no real bone. There were varying degrees of the substance, 
whatever it is."  
Man pleads gfrench fries rage DuBOIS, Pa.  uilty - In A  

Burger King customer 

who berated the employ­ees when a drive-thru clerk told him the restau­rant was out of french fries has been convicted of multiple charges and sen­tenced to 45 days in jail. 
Authorities said Gregg Luttman made an obscene gesture at the clerk, cursed staffers and nearly hit an employee with his truck. When police tried to arrest him, Luttman allegedly scuffled with an officer and kicked out the back window of a cruiser. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
LLI 
:::c 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
..J 
II( 
(,) 0 


...I LOW 42 LOW 36 LOW 35 LOW 40 IN BRIEF 
Kay Londergan will lead chil­dren's storytime at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore today at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. She will n~ad "The Worm Family" by Tony Johnston. 
The Saint Mary's tennis team will face Alma today at 3 p.m at Saint Mary's. 
Arun Majumdar. of the UC­Berkeley department of mechan­ical engineering, will give a semi­nar entitled "Fluidic and Thermal Transport in Nonstructure Materials and Devices" today. It will begin at 3:30p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
2004 U.S. Professor of the Year Rhona Free. NO alumna and professor of economics at Eastern Connecticut University, will give a lecture entitled "Tsunamis, Cincotti, and Silk Sarongs: Bringing Lil'e to the Classroom and the Classroom to Life" from 3:30 p.m. to 4:45 Wednesday in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning. 
Rebecca Paul. soprano. will give a graduate recital from 
4:30 p.m. to 6 Friday in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free and open to the public, but tickets are required. For tickets, call the DeBartolo box office at 574-631­2800. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play Cleveland State at 6 p.m. Friday at Eck Stadium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

Atlanta 62 I 52 Boston 66 I 48 Chicago 54 I 38 Denver 52 I 35 Houston 82 I 53 Los Angeles 72 I 54 Minneapolis 50 I 36 New York 64 I 52 Philadelphia 66 I 52 Phoenix 85 I 63 Seattle 68 I 50 St. Louis 58 I 40 Tampa 82 I 69 Washington 66 I 50 
• 

Tuesday, April 26, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Selected SMC students -will pursue sutntner projects 
SISTAR program allows rising seniors to team up with professors to conduct research in a wide variety of fields 
gram as a team in the spring of 

By USA GALLAGHER the student's junior year. CFAI 
New• Wrircr encourages innovative 
approaches for study that 

On April 14, four Saint Mary's afford as much student-faculty student-faculty member teams interaction as possible. The were awarded with a Student grant also supports travel for lndepnndent Study and the student to attend a profes­Hnsearc h ( S I STA H) grant sional conference in the next through the Cnnter academic year. 
for Academic In addition to 
Innovation (CFAI). First implmnnnt­cd in 191Jl. the  "/ am very excited about receiving the  completing an application, each student and fac­ 
SISTAH Program is  grant and grateful  ulty  member  
open  to  full-time  for this wonderful  must separately  
faculty and stu­dPnts in all disci­ opportunity."  type a four-to six-page proposal  
plirws. Thn SISTAH  that explains why  
PXperiPnCe  is  a  Slnnamon Wolfe  the  project  is  
model for gradu­ate work or  grant recipient  worth complet­ing, what the  
nmploymnnt aftnr  main  issues  of  

colleg1~ and fosters the stu­the project are, whether or not dents' p11rsonal dnvclopment as the projnct can rnach a stage of a eonlident, indPpcmlcnt schol­completion in one summer and ar. 1\ach student pursues what experiences and courses research and study for two previously taken particularly 
months over the su mmcr as a prepare the student for their junior collnague with a faculty work. 
partrwr. The SISTAH Committee ­
Tho faculty members also comprised of the CFAI Grants 
hmwlit from the opportunity to Committee plus two students ­engage in a high level of coop­then interviews each of the SIS­erative learning with an TAll applicant teams together. advanced student. One of the Saint Mary's College and the awards, the Maryjeanne H. Center for Academic Innovation Burke and Daughtnrs SISTAH. support up to three SISTAH supports ILJJ untenured faculty teams, and the Maryjeanne R. member in his or her student Burke and Daughters SISTAR 
partnership. grant is funded separately Thn student and faculty mem­through the Burke family. hnr apply for the SISTAH pro-"Maryjeanne H. Burke want­
ed to fund one of the SISTARs receiving the grant and grateful ... enabling us to, in some for this wonderful opportunity," ways. make the SISTAH dollars Wolfe said. ''I'm very excited to go further," said Patrick Pierce, be working on this project."· currently serving his first year Condon will be working with as director of the Center for Kitty Green from the Education Academic Innovations. "The Department. norm is that we award four "Dr. Green and I will be doing SISTAHs each year." research on service learning, 
This year's recipients -all which is curriculum-based rising seniors -arc Megan service for tho community," Kennedy, Lauren Condon, Condon said. Megan McGee and Sinnamon Condon also said their team Wolfe. Each will receive a tax­will focus on how service learn­able stipend of $3,500 plus ing affects student apathy lodging for eight weeks' resi­toward school. dence on campus. Their faculty "I truly believe this can get partners will also receive the students interested in school same amount, used to support again. I am so excitnd to get to the faculty work on this proj­member's own ect," she said. "I research. "! truly believe this really believe this 
This year's research can have a
can get students

recipient of the great impact on Burke grant is interested in school teacher education Wolfe, who, with again. at Saint Mary's untenured fac­College and on my ulty member own student teach­
Lauren Condon

Kurt Buhring of ing. This is going to the Heligious senior be a wonderful Studies depart-learning experience ment. will be for me and will examining the relationship have influence on my teaching between liberation theology career." and process theology. These Kennedy and Frances two theologies ask questions Kominkiewicz, head of the about human suffering, evil and social work department, will be human responsibility. Both say doing a study on mental health God responds to suffering with issues affecting college women. mercy and love, but that "Dr. Kominkiewicz [has I humans also need to respond noticed an interesting phenom­and take responsibility. enon in college dorms in that, 
"I am vnry excited about when college students don't 
receive support and guidance from other students, the dorm essentially becomes an environ­ment which facilitates and sup­ports destructive behaviors including depression, eating disorders. post traumatic stress syndrome, etc.," Kennedy said. "College can be a difneult time for many students, which increases the risk of mental health problems." 
The Kennedy-Kominkiewicz team plans to develop a pro­gram that will eventually be implemented at Saint Mary's. Kennedy said she believes that through education and basic training, the pair's goal "to fos­ter support amongst students" will prove to be successful. 
McGee and her faculty part­ner. Mana Derakhshani. assod­ate professor in tho French department and coordinator or the French program, will be accompanying sixtnen high school students on their school­sponsored trip through England, Spain and France. McGee will be studying how the students interact with the dif­ferent cultures, while Derakhshani will be looking at how much the students learn about the other cultures through the languages they have studied. 
"''m so excited," McGee said. ''I'm stoked." 
Contact Lisa Gallagher at lga1la01 @saintmarys.edu 
Are vou asophomore Accounting Maior looking tor great pav and a tremendous business experience;. 
If so, Get a Job at The Observer! 
The Observer is now accepting applications tor Controller! 
If you're interested or have questionS, please contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu or Michael Flanagan at mflanag 1@nd.edu. 

Tuesday, April26, 2005
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

25 students chosen for annual Camp Kesem 
The program will be held at 
By TRICIA DeGROOT Camp Manitou-Lin in Grand 
News Writer Rapids, Mich .. and the Notre 
Dame branch of Camp Kesem 
While some students are bask­hopes to build a relationship ing in the sun and playing on the with this campsite so the pro­beach this summer. _others will gram can grow larger each year. be helping children cope with "Camp Kesem is magical, and the efl'ects of a loved one's can­I just hope that we can continue cer at Notre Dame's third annual to provide this week of camp to Camp Kesem. these amazing kids," Thornton 
The weeklong summer camp said. "These kids have had to was started in 2000 by students grow up so fast and take on at Stanford University and insti­responsibilities that some kids in tuted at Notre Dame in August college don't even deal with, and 2003 by Adam Dell. Camp for that they are truly amazing." Kesem is a free camp for chil­During the day, the camp is dren ages 6 to 13, which allows run much like an ordinary day campers to interact with chil­camp -campers play sports, dren in a similar situation to swim, explore nature and partic­their own while giving them a ipate in other similar activities. week to have fun and enjoy At night. however, the coun­being young. selors hold cabin chats, which 
Lauren Thornton and Danielle give the campers the chance to Palkert are this talk about their year's co-chairs parents and their
"This has been by 
of the student cancer situations if support commit­far the best thing I they want to. tee. Thornton "I think the most
have gotten 
first got involved touching story I
involved with at
last year after have from last year losing her mother Notre Dame." comes from the to colon cancer in last cabin chat," January 2004. Thornton said.
Lauren Thornton 
She saw a sign Thornton was a advertising the Camp Kesem co-chair counselor in the camp the week six-to-nine-year­she got back from being home old girls' cabin, and because of with family and, not knowing their young age, cancer had not much about it, applied and was yet come up in one of their cabin accepted. chats until the last night of "This has been. by far. the best camp. The girls were talking thing I have gotten involved with about what they were scared of, here at Notre Dame," she said. and one started talking about While Camp Kesem is not an the loss of her father. officially recognized Notre Dame "All of a sudden, all the little club, it is completely run and girls started saying the same organized by Notre Dame and thing, and before we knew it. we Saint Mary's students who work had seven-year-old girls com­the entire school year preparing forting seven-year-old girls," and planning the camp. This Thornton said. "The girls were year, the camp's student support trying, and all the counselors committee received close to 40 were crying, but it was an applications. From among those amazing feeling to be able to applicants, 25 counselors were share this with all those girls." selected. giving the camp a two to one camper to counselor Contact Tricia DeGroot at ratio. pdegroot@nd.edu 
Happy (alt~tostJ 
22t1d birthday 
Andrea... only acouple 
t~tonths! 
'I'HE DEPAR:'Il\'I:F.NT OF MATHF..l'>~TJ:CS I~OUDLY PRESENTS 
The GE Prizes fur Excellence in Mathemat:lcs 
to 
Senior Honors in Mat:hernatlcs Major 
Margaret: Oolg 
Senior Mathematics Major 
Kevin Bot:t: 
and 
Aumann Prize for First Ye~r Honors Mat:hematic:s Studet'l'l:s 
Adam Boocher 
and 
Haaser Scholarships to 
Jessie~ Cisevvski, Emily GorrTian and .Andrew Rupinskl 
and 
J & C Sophornoro Award in Mathernat:ics 
E/Jzabet:h Vez:ino 
and 
The Kolet\:is Awar·d in Mat:hef'nat:ics t:o 
Geof'f'rey Jaflnstan 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Group begins plans for The Show 

committee also said they Elimination for the Take By KELLY BALE plan to have more marketing Back the Night March. which NewsWri[er than before on the Saint will be held on April 27. 
Mary's campus and to CAHE representitive Katie Saint Mary's Board of aggressively sell tickets dur­KPlly PxplainPd that the Governance met Monday ing orientation w1~r.k. march -which will travr,l 
night for the last time this "I really hopr, to get ... from Saint Mary's to Notre school year, and student more girls involved and Dame to lloly Cross -is an body president Kellye Mitros make it better than last event to raise awareness for thanked the new board for year." Kat Kindt. Saint sexual assault. the work they have put in so Mary's liaison for The Show. Following the tri-campus far and said she has enjoyed said. march. CARE will hold a the first three weeks of her Along with approval of the "speak out" in which anyone presidency. co-sponsorship, BOG also is free to share personal sto­
BOG approved a co-spon­discussed the possibility of ries with the march group. sorship with The Show creating a separate bank Kelly said that this event organization of Notre Dame. account just for The Show. really helps those who have The Show is an annual con­Several board members said experienced sexual assault cert for all Notre Dame, they felt The Show has feel the support or the cam­
Saint Mary's and Holy Cross become a successful event pus. students, held the first for the beginning or the "It gives a voice to a lot of Friday of each school year. school year and one BOG women who have been deal­The Show committee that would like to continue to ing with their experiences," presented to BOG said it is sponsor in future years. she said. 
looking to expand this year The group also approved a to make the event bigger co-sponsorship with the Contact Kelly Bale at than it has ever been. The Campus Alliance for Hape kbaleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Anentlon All Sophomores 
Class of 2001 
VISIT THE RING REPRESENTATIVE 
Hammes NO Bookstore 
Wednesdav. Thursday, Fridav 
Aprll2l, 28. 29.2005 
9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
1'b£s £s _your oppo'rJ:unity J:o order your Official Notre r~~U'IU! Class Ring fr--'r ~./eli,very in Sepr.enzber -u•hen you 1·eturn ,as ~r 7n~·-,nber t~f-theJ.unior Cl£~ss. 
~~rbis is the lc:#-St thne this st:hool year that lht~ 
.fact·o-t:y reprt.~sentati.tH1S ·zoill bt' or~ c::a1npus. 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 26, 2005 CoMPILED FROM T1u OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Politicians attempt talks amid attacks 
1!/\Glii>/\D. Iraq-Iraqi politicians. pres­sun~d by the United States. tried again Monday to end a rwarly three-month dead­lock ovnr forming a new transitional gov­ernnwnt. with insurgents emboldened by tlw impasse launching well-coordinated WPI~knnd attacks that kill11d 21J. 
Thn~e road bombs aimed at U.S. military convoys ~~xploded in the capital Monday, including on1~ in western Baghdad that kiiiPd an /\meriean soldier. said Army Lt. Col. Clifford Kent. 
/\notlwr roadsid1~ bomb hit a convoy in Pastern Baghdad on Sunday, killing one /\merican soldii~r and wounding two, the 
U.S. military said. Iraqi poliee said two civilians also were wounded. 
South Korea warns North over nukes 
SI·:OUI., South Korea-In a rare harsh tone, South Korea warned North Korea on Monday against conducting a nuclear test, and the corn­rnunist state said it would consider any U.N. sanctions a "declaration of war." 
Ttw South Korean warning comes amid fears tiH~ isolated stat1~ is trying to harvost plutonium J'or mon~ w1mpons after it apparently shut down a nuell~ar rnaelor and that it might be preparing for iL-; lirst nuclear t1~st. 
llee1mt rnwlations have prompted Secretary of' State Condolenzza Hice to say that although Washington had no tirneline for taking North Korea to the United Nations. it was willing to go to llw Security Council. Such a move could IWmJtually lead to oconomic sanctions on the North. 
Nuclear weapons can never guarantee North Korea's security and will only bring about and worsPn tlw country's isolation. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Missing toddlers found dead in pond 
W/\HHHNTON, Ga. -Two toddlers who wem reported missing from their home over tho wookend were found dead in an algae­covnn~d sewagP pond a few hundred yards away Monday aftpr a two-day search. 
Tlw cause of death was not immediately dis­closP<I. and Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman .John Bankhead said it was not known whether the youngsters were the vic­tims of foul play. /\utopsies were planned. 
Nicolo l'ayno, 2, and her brother, Jonah, 3, wPre n~ported missing on Saturday from their lakeside house about 100 miles east of 1\tlanta. Tlw childrnn's mother called authori­til~s to I'Pport that the toddlers vanished after slw went into another room. Police said their mother found the front door open and the children gone. 

Afghan heroin smuggler captured 
NEW YOHK-;\ reputed 1\fghan drug lord who authorities say operated with the pro­tection of the Taliban has been captured and faces charges that he tried to smuggle more than $50 million worth of heroin into the United States, authorities said. 
Bashir Noorzai. who is on the U.S. list of most-wanted drug kingpins. was ordered twld without bail at his initial court appear­ance in Manhattan. If convicted. he could face a maximum sentence of life in prison. 
The full circumstances of Noorzai's capture wern not made public. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Guard falling short on new recruits 
INDI/\NAPOLIS-llalfway through the recruiting year, the Indiana Army National Guard is falling short on recruits but doing better than other state guards. 
The Indiana Guard is the only state guard unit among the 10 largest to increase in size. From October through March, Indiana's force -at 10,941, the fifth largest -grew by 86 soldiers. 
Indiana's modest gains come as the military is struggling to !ill boots nationwide. Larger state guards have seen decreases of 500 or more through the lirst half of the liscal year. 

Bush urges Saudi prince to curb oil prices 
Talks at Texas ranch also touch on peace initiatives, democracy, counter-terrorism 
Associa1ed Press 

CH/\WFOHD, Texas ­President Bush on Monday pressed Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Abdullah to help curb skyrocketing oil prices that are hurting American families and busi­nesses; and a top adviser said a Saudi plan to increase production would have an impact. 
"When you increase the capacity by a significant amount, which they arc talking about, that can't help but have a positive down­ward effect on prices," said Bush's national security adviser, Steve I Iadley. 
As Bush and Abdullah met for several hours at the president's ranch, the Saudis prosented a plan -outlined last week in a speech by Saudi Oil Minister Ni Naimi -to increase production ca,padty to 12.5 million bar­rels per day by 2009 from the current 11 million limit. 
If necessary, Saudi Arabia would eventually develop a capacity of 15 million bar­rels per day. The kingdom now pumps about 9.5 mil­lion barrels daily. 
The talks also included Middle East peace initia-· Lives. the pace of democratic change in the desert king­dom and counterterror efforts. investment to increase its Saudi Arabia's de facto ruler that by emerging from the 
But the president. aware production capacity, espe­a warm embrace and a kiss building well before that record-high gas prices cially in light of the fast­on both checks in welcome. Abdullah's arrival and arc hurting his popularity, growing, energy-gobbling Bush kept a firm, guiding engaging in what was made put that issue at the top of markets in China and India. grip on his guest's hand as to appear to be an the agenda. "A high oil price will dam­they walked up the path, impromptu exchange with 
"The crown prince under­age markets, and he knows past a lield of bluebonnets the reporters gathered stands that it is very impor­that. I look forward to talk­that the president took care there. tant ... to make sure that the ing to him about that," the to point out, to a new ollice Monday's meeting also price is reasonable," Bush president said. "We'll talk building on a corner of the marked another step in a told reporters as he and Vice about his country's capaci­sprawling ranch. quickening pace of U.S. President Dick Cheney ty." Bush's goal of spreading involvement in the Mideast. awaited the arrival of the The president then pivoted democracy across the Arab 1\vo weeks ago Bush met at Saudi ollicials. to the domestic scene, prod­world faces a dillicult test in the ranch with Israeli Prime 
Bush said he would appeal ding the Senate to follow the Saudi Arabia, a longtime Minister /\riel Sharon and to /\bdullah's self-interest, House and pass the compre­ally ruled by a monarchy. said Israel should abandon telling him that persistent hensive energy strategy he Traditionally, Bush holds plans for new construction 
high crude prices could supports. "Now is the time news conferences with visit­of Jewish settlements in the erode the long-term market for something to happen," ing foreign leaders, but Palestinian territories. The 
for Saudi Arabia's biggest Bush said. there was none during this Saudis believe the adminis­source of revenue. He said Abdullah and his small visit because Abdullah tration's strong support for he would urge Saudi Arabia entourage were nearly a rarely talks with the media. Israel harms prospects for to make the necessary half-hour late. Bush gave The president got around Middle East peace. 

JAPAN 

Train crashes into housing complex, 57 killed 
tried to free at least three people still Akashi told NHK. "I didn't know what 
Associated Press 

alive in the wreckage more than 11 happened, and there were many peo­AMAGASAKI -A packed com­hours after the 9:18 a.m. crash, said ple bleeding." muter train that was behind schedule Yoshiki Nishiyama of the Amagasaki Photos taken by an NIIK reporter and may have been speeding jumped fire department. aboard the train showed passengers the tracks Monday and hurtled into 
The fate of the driver was piled on the floor and some clawing an apartment complex, killing 57 unknown. to escape. 
people and injuring 440 in Japan's The seven-car commuter train was Police official Hiroshi Yamatani said worst rail accident in 40 years. carrying 580 passengers when it the death toll had hit 57, with at least Investigators focused on whether derailed, wrecking an auto in its path 440 people taken to hospitals. includ­excessive speed or the actions of the before slamming into the parking ing 137 with broken bones and other 
inexperienced, 23-year-old driver garage of a nine-story apartment serious injuries. caused the crash in an urban area building. Two of the live derailed cars It was not clear how many of the 
near Amagasaki, about 250 miles were flattened against the building, dead were passengers or if west of Tokyo. The driver overshot and hundreds of rescuers and police bystanders and apartment residents the last station before the wreck, and swarmed the wreckage and tended to were among the victims. 
a crew member and several passen­the injured. The accident was the worst rail dis­gers speculated the train was speed­"There was a violent shaking, and aster in nearly 42 years in safety-con­ing to make up time. the next moment I was thrown to the scious Japan, home to one of the 
Floodlights were trained on one of floor ... and I landed on top of a pile world's most complex, efficient and the worst-damaged cars as rescuers of other people," passenger Tatsuya heavily traveled rail networks. 
Tuesday, April 26, 2005

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Current University policies call were trained immediately prior The student can still opt for a forth. for teachers to refer cases to to the hearing. departmental committee hearing "We need to be concerned


Honor 

departmental honor code com­"Realistically, I think convening prior to signing an agreement about promoting a positive 
mittees that investigate allega­when it was needed was a good and up to seven days after. The image," Flint said. "It has to be a
continued from page 1 

tions, hold hearings and issue thing," she said. "We did our best provost's oflice would also review very large effort." sanctions if they determine not having extensive training." cases and could lessen overly Over the summer and next bers. Though many faculty and cheating occurred. Reports on severe penalties, Jacobs said. year, Jacobs said the University
Honor Code: A work In progress
administrators believed cheating cheating students are also for­"We have not removed any will begin work on a variety of
A University Honor Code has 

was not widespread on the Notre warded to the provost's office so rights that students would have," proactive measures for students
been in place since 1966, but
Dame campus, the survey results that repeat offenders can be Jacobs said. and faculty. New honor booklets.
officials have questioned whether 
seem t.o indicate otherwise, asso­identified and disciplined further. Flint said this system might written in more accessible lan­
students and faculty fully under­
ciate provost Dennis Jacobs said. But rather than follow a proce­have potential side effects for guage, will be produced sepa­
stand and follow its policies. 
"It's an enormous problem at dure intended to promote fair­students who might feel pres­rately for faculty and students,
Currently. students entering

Notre Dame," said Thomas Flint. ness but sometimes viewed as sured into an unfair agreement with relevant information for
Notre Dame must read a pam­
faculty officer for the llonor Code cumbersome, slow and unclear. but would begin each group. he
phlet containing the full Ilonor
Committee. Jacobs and Flint said faculty rectifying the said.
Code and sign a 70-word pledge
The survey queried 2,400 undercut the reporting system to greater problem "We have not Jacobs said thr
promising to abide by it. The last
undergraduates and 250 faculty strike outside deals with stu­of unofficial stu­University also
major revisions to the code took removed any rights 
members about their perceptions dents. dent-faculty plans to' cn'ate
place in 2002.
of the severity of 20 different According to the fall 2004 sur­agreements. that students clearer honor code
Additional changes had been in

behaviors that vey, around one "It's possible for would have. " guidelines on the
the works for the past two years,
constitute cheat­percent of cheat­very unfair pun­code itself and
"In effect what we Jacobs said. and the survey
ing, ranging from ing allegations ishments to be appropriate clwat­
showed reform was indeed need­
turning in the have are faculty resulted in formal imposed by the Dennis Jacobs ing sanctions for
ed. The departmental committee 
same paper for departmental faculty member vice president and faculty and pro­
who are acting process seemed strained and stu­
two classes to committee hear­[currently]." he associate provost mote better faculty
dishonestly -it sets dents found the pledge and book­
cheating on an ings, Jacobs said. said. "In effect awareness on the
let dense and complicated. 
exam, Jacobs a terrible example. " In addition, what we have are honor code
Last fall, committees of stu­

said. Students Jacobs said some faculty who are acting dishonest­processes throughout colleges
dents, faculty and administra­
were also asked if faculty also ly-it sets a terrible example." and departments. 
Thomas Flint tors, worked on a series of
they engaged in faculty officer resented losing Notre Dame will also develop "We'll have a major push to
amendments to the Honor Code,
cheating and control over the more specific guidelines on educate faculty," he said. 
Casserlie said. She helped craft a
whether they Honor Code Committee situation and penalties for various behaviors to Notre Dame will also incorpo­
shorter, more succinct pledge:
would be likely to feared the possi­help professors determine sanc­rate more material on the honor
"As a member of the Notre Dame 
report cheating they observed. bility that a committee could tions and promote continuity. code into freshmen orientation
community, I will not participate
The University will not disclose issue a course grade the faculty Last Wednesday, the Academic and will create an online stu­
in or tolerate academic dishon­
any specific results, but the study member did not assign or agree Council, an administrative body dent-learning tool about the
esty."
did create cause for concern with. that oversees many academic honor code. Jacobs believes the
"We wanted to make it some­

about undergraduate cheating. "It doesn't sit well with some matters at Notre Dame, voted to simpler pledge will resonate
thing that was more simple, that
According to the CAl Web site, faculty," he said. "The loss of approve all the proposed more strongly with students. 
people would remember," she
about 75 percent of students on control has been a concern." reforms, Jacobs said, and he and No one expects the cheating
said.
the average campus admit to As a result, many cases simply Flint said they were hopeful that problem to be solved immediate­
On the issue of underreporting, 

some form of cheating, though went unreported and administra­these changes could begin to ly. but ollicials say they arc conli­
Flint said the University looked to
honor codes were shown to sig­tors were left to guess at the real alter the climate. dPnt the University recognizes
other colleges that offered a stu­
nificantly reduce major cheating. nature of cheating on campus. "It's probably thP largest tlw problrm and is taking tlw
dent-faculty negotiation alterna­
"J think many at the University Last year, committees reported changf~ we've madf~ to the honor best stf'ps to change the culturp
tive to the somewhat cumber­
felt that Notre Dame students about 40-45 cases of cheating, code since it was implemented," among undergrad uatr~s and fac­
some departmental hearing. 
should be thought of as not com­Flint said. Flint said. ulty.
The option proposed for Notre

parable with the national statis­Even when committees did "We need to havP a grPater
Dame allows faculty to offer a Culture change 
tics," Jacobs said. "They're not convene, Flint said their opera­discussion on this campus."
penalty to students whom they Honor Code committee mem­
significantly better." tion varied from department to Jacobs said. "Every member of
believe have cheated, such as bers said they don't expect the
The survey also showed signifi­department, with some main­this University. student and facul­
receiving a zero for the assign­code amendments to create 
cant disparity between faculty taining strong standards and oth­ty alike, shares an aspiration that 
ment, rather than proceeding to change overnight or be sufficient 
and student perceptions of cheat­ers taking a less serious we all are honest in the way we
a departmental committee. If remedies in themselves. Instead,
ing behaviors, with students gen­approach. deal with one another."
both parties agree on the deci­the University will initiate a vari­
erally viewing actions as less "In some departments, the 
sion. the instructor Iiles a report ety of proactive measures aimed 
severe than faculty. environment is almost not appro­
of the incident and sanction with at creating broader awareness of Contact Teresa Fralish at
Jacobs said the University priate," he said. 
the provost's office, Jacobs said. the standards Notre Dame sets tfralish@nd.edu
Honor Code Committee is cur­Patricia Engel, a junior cur­

rently assessing the results and rently on the University Honor will gradually make data avail­Code Committee, served on a able to various ollicials. physics departmental committee last year for one hearing. Engel What are you-doing
The current breakdown 

said she was contacted about a
In addition to the survey results suggesting a serious month prior to the committee next fall? 
hearing and asked to serve.
cheating problem, administrators also became increasingly aware "Apparently a case had come 

Get a head start on your career with a

that faculty members were not up, and they didn't have some­following University procedures one," she said. one-year Accelerated MBA from Illinois for reporting and reprimanding Some of the physics committee 
Institute of Technology's Stuart

cheating ofl'enses. members had past experience 
Graduate School of Business

"Part of the system is breaking with honor code violations, Engel down." Jacobs said. said. while others. including her. 
If you're a senior-or recent grad-this program gives you the business skills you need to land a great job in virtually any business environment. 
Our unique advantages include 
· 16 course programs 
· Internationally recognized faculty 
· AACSB-accredited 
· Convenient downtown Chicago location 
Call 1 312.906.6576 E-mail 1admissions@stuart.iit.edu RSVP I www.stuart.iit.edu/openhouse 


r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-----­

THE OBSERVER 
Tuesday, April 26, 2005 





USINESS 
page 7 


MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,242.47 84.76

}ones 
,.. 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,344 137 .. 1,796,082,490 

AMEX I ,466.78 +16.81 NASDAQ 1,950.78 +.18.59 NYSE 7,071.86 +56.01 S&PSOO 1,162.10 +9.98 NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,073.77 0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,864. 90 +15.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASD,II,Q IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) 
-0.81 +0.285 35.375 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
+0.04 +0.0 I 24.99 INTEL CP (INTC) 
+0.73 +0.17 23.41 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) 
+ 1.26 +0.15 12.07 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.29 +0.05 17.48 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.52 -0.24 
45.56 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.09 -0.04 42.51 
5-YEAR NOTE +0.41 +0.16 39.37 3-MONTH BILL -0.91 -0.26 
28.32 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.82 54.57 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 
+0.20 435.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.25 81.98 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
105.7400 EURO 
0. 7697 

POUND 
0.5231 CANADIAN$ 
1.2370 

IN BRIEF 
Adelphia agrees to $715 settlement 
W/\SIIINGTON -Bankrupt Adelphia Communications Corp. has agreed to pay the govt~mment $715 million to settle a federal fraud investigation, Attorney General /\lbnrto Gonzales said Monday. 
;\dnlphia will deposit the money in a fund that tlw government will usc to compensate investors hurt by the fraud -making the settlement one of the largest of its kind, (;onzales said. As part of the settlement, members of' the Higas family, the company's founders, have agreed to forfeit more than 1)5 percent Of' their aSSCtS. 
The eompany did not immediately return calls seeking eomment. 
/\delphia, operating under bankruptcy pro­tection sinen 2002, had offered to pay $725 million in its nngotiations with the govern­nl!'nt, it disclosed in a regulatory liling last month. It was unclear why the agreement was for less than that. 

Arthur Andersen settles with investors 
NI·:W YOHK -/\rthur /\ndersen has rnaehed a settlement with WorldC:om investors who had aecused the company's for­nwr outsidn auditor of violating securities laws by failing to protect thnm from WorldCom's historic $11 billion aeeounting fraud. 
I>Ptails of the scltlement were not immedi­aLPly re!Pas•~d. U.S. District .Judge Denise Cote indicatPd that an expedited preliminary approval hearing on the settlement would occur Tuesday. The deal intnrruptl~d a trial in its fifth w1wk on thr accusations contained in a class action lawsuit brought after WorldCorn's 2002 collapse, the largest bank­ruptcy in U.S. history. 
Before the trial, major investment banks agrned to pay more than $6 billion in settle­nwnts and a dozen former board members settled the ease for $24.75 million, leaving Arthur Andersen as the sole defendant. 
1\ message left Monday with a lawyer for /\rthur /\ndersen was not returned. 
Tho lawsuit was led by New York state Comptroller /\lan llevesi, acting as trustee of the state employees' retirement system. 
John Chartier, a spokesman for Ilevesi, said he had no immediate comment. 


Air Canada to buy new Boeing aircraft 
Emerging from bankruptcy, airline hopes new fleet will save millions ofdollars 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO -Fresh out of' 
bankruptcy, /\ir Canada will 
spend at least $6 billion to 
burnish its imagB and oper­
ations by purchasing new 
Boeing aircrart that are 
more modern and fuel clli­
cient than its current 
planes. 
The agreement includes firm orders for 18 777s and 14 787s-Boeing's newest jet, the Drearnliner. /\ir Canada, which emerged from bankruptcy protection in October, has options and purchase rights for 46 more 787s and 18 more 777s. 
Hobert Milton, chairman and CEO of /\CE Aviation lloldings, the Montreal­based parent company of /\ir Canada said the new lleet would save the compa­ny hundreds of millions of dollars by lowering its fuel costs and eliminating the need to upgrade its current wide-bodies. which are more than 20 years old. on average. 
"I am confident no one has ever done better on a deal," said Milton, who intends to dedicata the air­craft primarily to flights between Canada and vari­ous destinations in Asia, including Beijing, Shanghai and New Delhi. 

Milton said the company also plans to boost its inter­national cargo service, elim­which seats between 217 run bank clearly helped one mated to bring in an addi­
inating costly ;;topovers in and 289 passengers, is of its own: Boeing. "It's one tional $300 million of Alaska. scheduled to debut in 2008. of those little things that improved annual profitabili­
"They're trying to rein­Air Canada said the bulk government do to help ty by 2010. And he said the vent themsevles," said of the financing would be industry everywhere," he company would save $5 Hichard Aboulafia, an avia­guaranteed by the Export said. "It's all very mutually million per aircraft on tion analyst with the Teal Import Bank of the United enabling." upgrades once designated
Group in Farifax, Va. "If States, in Canadian dollars. As part of its restructur­for the older jets. you're striving for the best, The airliner also recently ing, Air Canada cut roughly Air Canada did not saythis is how you would do it." secured $642 million in U.S. $2 billion ($1.6 billion) a why it opted for the Bolling 
Boeing Co. valued the firm linancing and officials said year in operating costs, half rather than rival Airbus for orders at about $6 billion at they had negotiated a "pro­of that in concessions from its investor-demandnd f1eet list prices and said it would gressive payment schedule" employees, which has led to renewal. Milton noted that be the largest deal so far for so that Air Canada would strikes and poor morale Air Canada would continue 
its new Dreamliner model, not be forced to put all the among employees. to usc the Airbus for its nar­assuming Air Canada buys cash for the deal up front. Milton said the plan for row-body fieBt and that the all 60. Aboulalia said the back­expanding in Asian and company has one of the The 787 Drearnliner, ing of the U.S. government-European markets is esti-world's largest Airbus fleel'i. 

Gutierrez optimistic about U.S. economy outlook 
U.S. trade. Arneric&n Free Trade Agreement,
Associated Press 

Gutierrez says he's optimistic the known as CAFl'A. 
W/\SIIINGTON -Hising energy Bush administration can "get the facts Gutierrez contended the agreement prices, the loss of manufacturing jobs out" and win the necessary votes in would help the U.S. textile industry by and soaring trade deficits haven't Congress for a free trade agreement helping countries that already pur­soured Commerce Secretary Carlos with six Latin American countries. chase yarn and fabric made in the Gutierrez's outlook on the U.S. econo­Gutierrez said he recognized the United States. lie said the Latin my. administration faces a battle on the American countries would get a boost 
"The economy continues to show trade agreement, which would elimi­from CAFTA's elimination of all U.S. momentum," Gutierrez said Monday in nate barriers between the United tariffs on their clothing producl'i being an interview with The Associated States and live countries in Central shipped to the United States. If the Press. American as well as the Dominican Latin American countries don't get this 
Gutierrez, the former chief of cereal Hepublic. benefit, they are likely to lose out in giant Kellogg, said he loved his new job The pact faces significant opposition competition with China and its more and was surprised at the pace of the from Democrats who contend it doesn't efficient textile industry, he said. work. "There's the perception that we do enough to protect American work­"If we don't get the agmement, that work very hard in the private sector, ers from unfair competition from low­textile business that we are part of and we do. There's the perception that wage countries with lax environment today will most likely go to China. So perhaps people didn't work this hard protections. this is very important free-trade agree­in the publie sector. That is wrong. This It is also being opposed by lawmak­ment for the textile industry," Gutierrez is a very fast paced, 24-7,job," he said. ers who represent districts that are said. 
Throughout the wide-ranging inter­horne to textile and sugar producers. He also said he didn't believe the view, he exuded confidence about the These two industries contend they agrBement would hurt U.S. sugar pro­economy and administration efforts to would suffer job losses from the ducers because the amount of extra create more jobs, deal with high ener­increased competition from the six sugar imports from the CAFTA coun­gy prices and improve the climate for countries covered by the Central tries would be very small. 


Tuesday, April26, 2005

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

SMC adtnissions office not surprised by incoming class_ 
By COURTNEY KENNEDY 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's class of 2009 is "right on target" with the College's recruiting projec­tions for this year, said Mona Bowe, Saint Mary's interim dimctor of admissions. 
The College receivnd 987 applications from 48 states and 10 countries. Bowe said. A typi­cal incoming class at Saint Mary's consists of 375 to 385 students. Thus far 327 have com­mitted to enroll in the fall, she said. 
The current first-year class fell short of the College's goal with only 351 women, forcing the admissions office to make changes to its recruiting techniques. 
"We didn't compromise academic stan­dards, but we made some changes," Bowe said. "We added an extra mailing to encour­age students to apply and worked closer with the fmancial aid oflice. We focused on estab­lishing the relationship with the admission counselor and the student." 



Prospects 
continued from page 1 
wish to delve deeper into the unique attrib­utes of student life at Notre Dame. 
"Not all students request to stay with stu­dents, but many do," Borufl' said. "We provide overnight of hosts for those who request one." 
Borufl' said students who visit the University as prospects -and then later enroll -arc invited to serve as hosts for admitted high school seniors. Freshman Bill Archibald has hosted several prospective students this year because of his own experience with the visita­tion process. 
"My own visit was very awkward, so it inspired me to host prospective students in order to make their visits a little less [uncom­fortable]." Archibald said. 
Hosts are expected to follow certain guide­lines put forth by the undergraduate admis­sions oflice and receive a letter delineating these rules, Boruff said. 
"As a host and a representative of Notre Dame, we ask that you comply with Du Lac and the rules regarding overnight guests in your particular hall," a typical letter said. 
Borufl' said hosts are also strongly encour­aged to bring their guests to classes with them, as this is a "top priority" for admitted students. The undergraduate admissions 
OJX'n: Tmt~.-Sut. l Jam-lpm & 4pm-9pm (.)1m, andlvft»t. dt;;'ft•d) 
J):iJWwln • i'ake~Oul • C'atert"g 
.•..·.·.w.•.•,•.,•.w,•.wN.w.·.······································•··· ··~.:-.·.ow.·.·.w.·.·.·.·.·.·.•.•.·.·.•.·.•.•.•.•.•.•.o.•.•.o.•o.•.•.•.•.o.w.•.•.•.• 
W~ offe-r: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawook. Vegetarian and Meat Grape (.;C"a\'C: RA..llls~ Fala:tet Hoottunos, Tabooli, Meat Ple, Spin.~ch P~e aoo many delkh.,us dishes ... Our addreM: l JS Dixie ~ft'Q>' North 
(574) 211...1139 ~}outh Bttnd. IN 46637 w·e ;u:e located in Rt.Y..d:amf ~ate~. ncar Pendle ~>ad on 31 
The admissions office is also currently look­ing for a new vice president for admissions and enrollment management, a position cre­ated by College President Carol Mooney in order to create enrollment stability at Saint Mary's. The oflice decided that rather than hire a new director of admissions, it would be better to create the vice president position to oversee admissions as well as financial aid. 
Academically, Bowe said, the class of 2009 is similar to the class of 2008. Admitted stu­dents this year have an average GPA of 3.73 on a four point scale, an average ACT score of 26, an average SAT score of 1170 and an average class rank in the top 18 percent of their class. 
This year, over 300 applicants were endorsed by an alumna, an increase from last year. Typically, 30 to 35 percent of first year students are connected in some way to the College, Bowe said. 
Contant Courtney Kennedy at akenneO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
oflice also asks host students to provide a tour of their dorm and popular campus facilities. 
"Coming to Notre Dame did affect me some­what in that it helped me realize that this was the place for me," Archibald said. "I enjoyed what I saw in the classes and on campus. I feel it is now my duty to show the prospect all aspects of Notre Dame life and allow them to make the ultimate decision." 
Boruff said admissions oll1cials host multi­ple receptions during the months of February and April for early-and regular-decision admits, respectively. Hepresentatives from First Year of Studies, Financial Aid, Student Activities and Admissions, as well as current students and faculty members from several academic departments, are accessible for stu­dents and their parents to pose inquiries about the various facets of campus life. 
"The Office of Undergraduate Admissions is proud of all the services we provide admitted students, and we hope that these services highlight all that Notre Dame has to offer them," Boruff said. "Our entire oflice recog­nizes the importance of the visit in a student's decision making process and thus strives to 
give each student the best visit possible." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
COR 
continued from page I 

offer from the Entrepreneurial Club to start its own book exchange site. Discussions began with comments about the opportunity cost of NDBay. 
"It says [in the NDBay paperwork] that there is an opportunity cost of $15,000 for going with the Entrepreneurial Club option," Student Union Board manager Jimmy Flaherty said. 
Kelly explained that this value is the amount of revenue that student government would fail to earn if the Entrepreneurial Club's site were not running by the fall. 
"We tried to be as conservative as possible to show the startup sce­nario," he said. "Students will lose $15,000 by not having an online company next year. You can get revenue from us because our site is already up. If you go with a rival, even if it is running by December, you lose opportunity cost, which is historical data on how much stu­dents have saved with our site." 
Class of 2008 president Erin Mulholland asked about the num­bers used to calculate student sav­ings with NDBay. 
According to Wenger, the figures were based on used book prices at the Hammes Notre Dame bookstore. 
He also noted that NDBay's price seemed to be an obstaele to its pur­chase. 
"We would go lower than original­ly discussed to $4,000," he said, "but as a compromise we wouldn't necessarily work with you to incor­porate the system. For $5,000, we would include our assistance for the first three months of the purchase." 
Class of 2006 president Emily Chin asked the NDBay representa­tives if they would seek other buy­ers if student government decided not to purchase the site. 
"We think student government is the best option because we want [NDBay] to go further," Kelly said. 
Class of 2007 president Bill Andrichik brought up differences 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 

Thursday, April 28th 
12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch and study break at the Co-Mo. 
between NDBay and the Entrepreneurial Club's proposal regarding the actual book transac­tions. 
"One main selling point of the Entrepreneurial Club last week was that it would set up a situation in which all money was handled online," he said. "I don't really see that as much of an advantage. Ir students already transfer their money online before the book. they will come to us to try to police it." 
Judicial C:ouneil president James Leito countered Andrichik's point. 
"I think most of us an~ pretty good kids," hP said. "I don't see that being an issue. The beauty behind what the Entrepreneurial Club is doing is that they want to build a site, integrate with Amazon, and have kids pay online. The problem with student business is you might not always get kids with the same dedication -finding kids who want to do that would be hard. 
"In favor of the Entrepreneurial Club doing it," he added, "we should give them an incentive to get it done by fall, so we don't lose this $15,000 or $30,000." 
Hepresentatives questioned NDBay's estimated $200 for annual upkeep of the site. 
"Thirty hours a semester at $6.75 an hour is $200," student body vice president Lizzi Shappell said. 
"Besides $400 in operating costs, we would need hardware costs." Flaherty said. "We would be stupid to do this and not markPL it, which would bP another $2,000 for a year. Two hundrPd dollars is grossly under the fon~cast." 
Sujal Pandya. rhair of the Sl~nate Oversight Committee, suggPsted that NDBay would be a more legally sound option than the Entrepreneurial Club's plan. 
"From looking at models, NDBay has a higher probability of being legal," he said. "It is a used book exchange, while · the Entrepreneurial Club is taking in money and competing with the [Hammes] Bookstore." 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle I @nd.edu 

Tuesday, April 26, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
College picks depend on distance 
As high schoolers wrestle with final decisions, the choice is far or near 
Associated Press 
Stanford is close to home in California. more laid back and set~ms to ofTt~r more of tlw pro­grams Aman Kumar wants to pu1·sun. But Princeton ofl'ers an idyllic campus and would show him a diflimmt part of the world. 
1\.cceptancc letters in hand, thousands of high school students arn wrnstling this week with final college decisions. due Sunday. Academics. financial aid and even athletics will tip th1~ balance for many. But many, like Kumar, also are struggling with a question they can no longer postpone: Do I 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
get lost ii1 the shuflle. Next year I think it will carry more weight," he said. 
Security task force chair /\lex French updated members on plans that are underway for fire safety lessons to be given to stu­ch~nlc.; on a dorm-by-dorm basis. 
"The Notre Dame fire depart­nwnt plans to show a fire safety video in all the residence halls next semester and give a brief 15 minute presentation about what to do in case of an emergency," French said. 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni presented a resolu­tion to tlw Council aimed at enhancing communication betwmm Senate committees work­ing on diversity and the CLC's social concerns task force. Diversity has been a topic of dis­cussion throughout the year, and want to go away to school, or stay close to frinnds and family? 
Stanford "is the perfect profile match," says Kumar, who was born in Stnnford's hospital and lives in Saratoga, Calif .. just a few minutes drive from the Palo i\lto campus. "But at the same time, you wonder if it's going to be more of the same, if you're going to become complacent. People say the college where you will grow the most will serve you best." 
Many students, looking forward to independence, arc eager to get away. But taking the plunge can be intimidating. 
this resolution is meant to keep CLC involved in the process, Bongiovanni said. 
"This resolution calls for the Senate Minority 1\.ffairs Committee to report to CLC at our meetings and tell us what's going on," she said. "We can ask questions, voice concerns, offer comments and pass along any information that we have." 
Istvan praised the resolution as a reliable way to maintain lines of communication. 
"This is a perfect way to contin­ue the diversity project and keep CLC involved with a group that meets weekly to work on it," Istvan said. 
The resolution passed with unanimous approval. 
Finally, student body president Dave Baron asked members for suggestions on how improve CLC next year, when he will be leading the meetings. 
Brother Jerome Meyer said the issue of campus vandalism should be addressed at next year's meet­ings. 
''I've never been away from home," said Megan Kunz, a sen­ior at Edina lligh School in subur­ban Minneapolis who is choosing between nearby College of Saint Benedict, and DePauw University, about 600 miles away in Indiana. She's leaning toward DePauw but worries about "not being able to just drive home on the weekend when I feel like I need a break." 
For other students, like Lino Ochoa, escape is part of the appeal. A senior at The College Preparatory School in Oakland, Calif., Ochoa says he's looking to get out of his drugs-and-violence­plagued neighborhood. 
Judicial Council president James Leito noted that outdoor improvement at various campus locations was needed. 
"There are no trashcans by Stepan and no drinking fountains by the bookstore basketball courts," Leito said. "It's just little things that people don't always recognize." 
Bongiovanni questioned the makeup of the Leprechaun selec­tion committee. She suggested the Council seek the inclusion of a stu­dent on the committee for next year's selection. 
Members also asked about the feasibility of having Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman attend a CLC meeting next year. Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs David Moss reassured members they had nothing to worry about. 
"I think Father Poorman would be more than willing to come to a meeting next year," Moss said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

Mayor of San Diego resigns atnidst probe 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -lie initially declined to run for a second term, then changed his mind and fought like a bulldog in court to prove that he won last fall's disputed election. 
Now, Dick Murphy says he will resign as mayor of San Diego amid growing turmoil over his handling of a city pension scandal that has roiled the nation's seventh­largest city. The 62-year-old former judge said he will leave office July 15. 
"When I ran for re-election, I had hoped that my second term would as productive as my first but that now seems unlikely," Murphy said at a news conference. "It is clear the city needs a fresh start." 
The announcement stunned City Hall and heralded what will likely be a nasty battle over how to replace Murphy. City Attorney Michael Aguirre said the City Council could appoint someone until the next general election in June 2006 or call a special vote to finish Murphy's term. 
Donna Frye, the surf shop owner and maverick city councilwoman who nearly ousted Murphy after a write­in campaign last fall, said she would run in a special elec­tion. 
Murphy's undoing proved to be a $1.37-billion deficit in the city's pension fund -partly the result of a 2002 decision to enhance pension benefits while cutting contributions to the retirement system. The pension debacle is the subject of 14-month-old investigations by the Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission -as well as near-daily quarrels between the mayor's allies and critics, including an aggressive new city attorney who called for him to quit earlier this month. 
The announcement comes just months after a bruising re-election battle in which Murphy pulled out a 2,10H­vote victory over Frye. The councilwoman contended more votes were cast for her, but thousands of the write-in ballots were disqualified under a state law. Following a series of legal challenges, Murphy was sworn into ollice on Dec. 8. 
Murphy also cited his accomplishments as mayor, including the creation of an ethics commission, new libraries, establishing an air­port authority, a new down­town baseball ballpark and reduced sewer spills. But his announcement was an acknowledgment that the problems overshadowing his administration had made him ineffective. 
At the end of his short state­ment, he hugged his family and left the news conference to the applause of his staff. lie did not take any questions from reporters. 
Murphy initially declined to seek re-election last year, say­ing he wished to focus on helping San Diego rather than put his attention on a cam­paign. Business leaders, how­ever, rallied in support of him and persuaded Murphy to run. 
The city's outside auditor, KPMG, has warned it cannot complete its audit of the city's 2003 books until an investiga­tion is launched into whether city officials committed illegal acts. The lack of complete audits for 2003 and 2004. coupled with the ongoing investigations, has hobbled the city's ability to issue bonds, putting vital water and sewer projects on hold and threatening library and fire station construction. Standard & Poor's Hatings Services has suspended the city's credit rating. 
The Office of Information Technologies is looking for ND students who can provide after-hours computer support to students who live in ND Residence Halls. RCAs work between eight and 20 hours per week after receiving training from the OIT. 


Check out our website : www.nd.edu/-harmonia ::~. for more info 
THE 0HSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 
Tuesday, April 26, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Why politics? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDIIDR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds Assr. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EmmR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EmroR: Rama Gortumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDIIDR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDIIDR: Graham Ebetsch ADVEIUJSING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAIDR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRAIDR: Damian Althoff CONTROllER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all n;aders. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
{};Jestions regarding Oburverpolicies rhouU be directed to Editor in Chief Ckzi" Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th~ Oh~etvct (USPS 59'-J 2-4000) h puhli•h~ Momlay through f-riday CX~.:~pc Jurinl' I!X.llll .lnd vacaciun pc.,-ioJ~. A ~u~criprion rO ·rht! Ob~t:rvcr i~ $100 for one acad~:tT~tc 
The.' Oh~crv~:r ~~ publi•ht1.i •r: POSTMASTER 

1)24 South l>inmg Ho~.U Send o~ddn.'lo) wrn:t:tion~ ru: Nu(l'(' Da.tnc, IN 46SS6-0779 Th... Ob.~K'tYt:t Pcrto..tical ro~c~c piiiJ ,u Norn-O.mu: P.O. UoK n'J a.nJ .uidiri(111.U mailing uffiu·'· 024 Suuth Dining H:~ll 
Nutre D.:~.tnl.', IN 46556.0779 
The Ohu:rvcr tf a member ,uf dw ASlotk:loltcJ l'n..,~. All r\·prodm ciun right• lli'C n:~ot:t"'t:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Maddie Hanna Bobby Griffin Nicole Zook Chris Khorey Julie Bender Matt Wormington 
Viewpoint Scene Katherine Rowley Maria Smith Graphics Illustrator Graham Ebetsch Katie Knorr 
It's always good to sit back and think for a while how lucky you are to be where you are in the world right now. Sure, you hate South Bend's weather, Notre Dame's rules or what you may con" sider to be a pretty dull campus as far as Tom parties go. There are Rippinger many of you out there that may bemoan the 
Confessions of
fact that you do not 
a Campus
have the _same Lexus 
Conservative
SUV as your room­mate or a credit card your parents gave you. You may be fat. You may be unpopular, ugly, smell or any range of things that may seem to make the world around you a misery. 
Taking any that apply into considera­tion, pick up a pair of dice and start rolling them. After doing some quick cal­culations in the CIA world fact book, con­sider that you had a three in one hun­dred chance of being born in the United States. Without doing the math (since I'm an Arts and Letters major), consider your chances of being born into a family above the poverty line. Consider your chances of being born into a family that fostered your education to a point that you could handle yourself at Notre Dame. Finally, consider the odds that you would actually make it into a world-renowned university like Notre Dame. Look at a pair of dice and consider how lucky you are. 
Next take a look at history and consid­er your place in it. You weren't born into the Middle Ages, born as a slave, or born into any other time than this. If you are my age, you were born after the inven­tion of the personal computer. You were born after cable TV, the airplane, the automobile, modern plumbing and the Internet. Any "average Joe" with a library card and an ability to use Windows XP in this country has more information at his fingertips than armies of scribes or scholars during most of his­tory. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing this summer? 
Vote by Tuesday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
All around you is a world filled with problems. Scarcity of resources, inequity of all kinds, hate, war and violence are rules of history as opposed to occasional exceptions. Our technology has unleashed the power of the atom, the microbe and the terrible possibilities of chemistry for destruction. Meanwhile the world is becoming smaller as our tech­nology increases the speed of worldwide communication to the millisecond. Our world is one of both great problems and unparalleled potential. 
The phenomenon of human nature, history, economics, religion, war, peace, education and law all intersect in the unique field of politics. Although many within our generation may not even real­ize it, history has placed us into one of its most political of time periods. In no time or place in the world have any people had the same ability to influence politics as we do. Google search an interest of yours, and there is more than likely an interest group in Washington actively lobbying on its behalf. 
Each and every one of us is a highly­educated political actor with enough edu­cation and access to make a serious dif­ference. This past year's elnction showed us that it comes down to old-fashioned grassroots politics. The swing of a few thousand votes in florida or Ohio could change the history of the next one-hun­dred years when you think of the domino effect U.S. policy has on a complicated and interdependent global economy. 
So, in my last column, I won't try and push my conservative views on anybody. In fact, I have more respect for well­known campus liberals like Peter Quaranta or Kamaria Porter than I do for those who just sit on their hands and watch history pass by them. To say that each and every one of you at Notre Dame have the ability to change the world is not an exaggeration. A look at the math­ematics of population and the reality of a politically polarized United States of 


1Submit aLetter
Ito theeEditor at
i' . . . . . .... . .. . .. .. .. 
;~ \'N.~v.ndsmeobs.erver.com li 


America makes each and every one of you a potential political resource. 
I've had a great experience on campus here with the College Hepublicans, and I will truly miss this part of my life. Whatever small ripph~ we may have made in the ocean of the destiny of this world, I am proud that I was able to be a part of it. I'd also like to thank all of my fellow College Republicans, for their hard work last year during the election. Thank you Congressman Chocola for letting us work a part of your campaign and your hospitality in getting us tickets for the Inauguration in Washington, as well as the opportunity to attend the Indiana Inaugural Ball. I'll truly miss great friends like Josh Kempf, Jonathan Klingler, Jaimie Feltault and Ian Ronderos whom I met in the College Republicans. 
finally, I'd like to thank my loyal read­ers and the noble opposition. Although the Democrats lost this year, it was in no part due to your College Democrats. Though we had our squabbles over the Transpo thing, I respect the amount of time they put into fighting for their can­didates. Thank you Katie Boyle as well for going head to hnad with me on these Viewpoint pages in the wePks leading up to the election. 
I also appreciated the motivation and constructive criticism I received in my e­mail box throughout the year for my col­umn. I was honored by letters to the edi­tor and e-mails that responded to my col­umn. I was honored that so many of you took the time to read my work. Take care and God Bless. God, Country, Notre Dame. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political sci­ence major. He is a member ofthe Notre Dame College Republicans. 1/e can be contacted at trippinl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"My political ideal is democracy. Let every man be respected as an individual and no man idolized." 
Albert Einstein American physicist 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 26, 2005 page II 
'The Church is alive' and so is faith at Notre Datne 

Catholic faithful and nwn and wonwn of many different bPliefs or no1w. have lived through two Pnwlional W(~nks. WP stood vigil during tlw 
dying of  Father  
l'opP John  Richard  
l'aul II and  Warner  
his wakr and  

flllwral. We 
w i tn ~~ssed FailhPoinl on«' of tlw shortnsl con­claves in I'P<:t~nl y(~ars. WP t'XpPrienced tht' t'Xriting wait for tlw nanw ol' tlw new pope as whiW smokP poured out of tlw stovepipe of tlw Sistine Chap«~ I and the btdls of St. l't'tPr's Basilica began tlwir joyful peal. And we have lived through the first days and the inauguration of Pope Benedict 
XVI. During these days, we had an opportunity to live the most profound truths, which an~ the basis or our faith. 
Our Church traces its origin 
to .lt1sus Christ, who gave the 
keys of the kingdom to Peter, 
and who promised that his 
Fatlwr would s11nd the Holy 
Spirit to guide the community 
of belinvPrs through the 
JWaceful and tumultuous 
monwnts of human history. 
During East«~r Week. we hl'ard so many stirring accounts of tlw apptHtrances of .Jesus to tlw disciples after his ri'Slll'l't'ction. Aft<>r they had IH•nn firmed up in thPir faith, .lt~SUS left thPm With instructions to go out into tlw who!P world to spread the (;ood News of tlw Gospel and to baptizP pnoplP who lwlinved. In threl' weeks, wn will celebrate the feast of l'onwcost, whnn thn lloly Spirit canw upon the believers and emboldened them to live as Jesus did and to be wit­nesses to the Gospel. 
The selection of the 264th successor of l'etnr-apostolie succt~ssion -means that tnachings of tht~ doctrine of our faith, its traditions and tlw sacramental ministry of tlw Church will be available to us as they will be to all people until the end or time. 
Tho bolinvers who come aftt~r us will be initiated into a lifn of belief as Christians. just as we WPn~. Tlwy will be bap­tizt•d in order to live with .Jesus fon~ver. Tlwy will bP strPngthened by tlw gift of the lloly Spirit at confirmation and will know our joy as we ePlebrate the J·:ucharist around tlw Lord's Table. Tlwy will receive forgive1wss through sacranwntaln~concil­iation. 
Through tlw sacrament of tlw sick. tlwy will be strength­(~!wd wlwn they are weak and 
in 11eed. 
The Church will continue to 
bless the love or men and 
wonwn through the sacra­
ment of matrimony. And men 
will be called to be ordained 
as priests in order to serve 
God's people, side by side with 
millions of dedicated lay men 
and women. 
While we thank God for the 
life of Pope John Paul, we 
look forward to the Petrine 
ministry of Pope Benedict XVI. 
The beginning of a new papacy is always an exciting tinw for the Church. We believe that the Holy Spirit. not only guided the choice of Pope Benedict XVI. but that the same Spirit will be pres­ent to him during all the days he will lead the Church: as Bishop of Home, as successor to Peter, the chief of the apos­tles, as Supreme Pontiff of the Catholic Church and as the servant of the servants or God. 
At his inauguration last Sunday, Pope Benedict said "The Church is alive-with these words, I greet with great joy and gratitude all of you gathered here ... Like a wave gathering force, my thoughts go out to all men and women or today, to believers and non-believnrs alike." 
May this brilliant. humble, prayerful and simple man of faith and holiness, encourage us to livn up to the great chal­lenges of being disciples of Jesus Christ in a world that is distracted by lights that arc not those of the Gospel. May he see the Spirit at work in continents where the faith is lively and growing, in our rich heritage of intellectual pursuit of truth, in the poor and sick, in people who live their lives faithfully and especially from young people who have so much to offer because of their energy, their enthusiasm and in the case of Notre Dame undergraduates, excitement about being people of faith. 
"The purpose of our lives is to reveal God to [pcoplel. And only where God is seen does life truly begin. Only where we meet the living God in Christ do we know what life is ... Each of us is the result of the will of God. Each of us is willed. each of us is loved and each of us is necessary." 
Father nichard Warner is the director of Campus Ministry. he can be contacted at warner.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Supportourschoolby supportiiJ-g 'The Shirt' 
Hecently, there has been much discussion of The Shirt 2005 and tlw problems with its radi­cally new design. The golden yellow is very similar to Michigan and Boston College. The quote on the back seems a bit "sappy" for a football slogan. These concerns are well founded. However. these issues arc only on the surface; The Shirt is anything but a shallow display. 
From its origin 16 years ago, The Shirt has stood for the unity and brotherhood of the stu­dent body, who come together for a common cause. This belief has continued over the course of The Shirt's existence, whether the cause is a football game or not. The student body of Notre Dame is united time and time again. A shirt's color has nothing to do with this. 
Also, a color will not make us a copy of another school. Compared to our rivals, we could not be any more distinct. As the premier Catholic university in the United States, Notre Dame displays its own uniqueness in all of its dealings. We are not Michigan, and we are most certainly not Boston College. We are ND, as Tlw Shirt 2004 says so rlnarly-and that nwssagn would bn just tht• sanw in any rolor. not just grnPn. 
Touching on the quotp on the back. "If you wuld find a way to bottle thP Notn' I>amp spir­it. you could light up the universe," .ltw Theismann said this wlwn askPd about tlw spirit of the university. Who better than one of the great Irish quarterbacks.to descrilw the power, the aura, the spirit of the Uniwrsity of Notre Dame? The quote, like The Shirt itself. symbolizes much more than a football season: it embodies the essence of Notre Dame itself. 
Now, some may paraphrase llappy Cilmore and say, "Gold shirt, green shirt ... Who gives a damn?" Yet considering all that The Shirt says about the University of Notre Dame and its student body, its message is proven trur.. "The Spirit Lives" not in The Shirt. but in each of us. Support our school by supporting The Shirt. 
Rob Lindley, Jr. frcshm.m Keough hall April 2'i 

U-WIRE 

Gender gibberish 
That's it. This columnist has had it. One man too many has complained about beingsent to the dog­house for reasons he can't comprehend. One woman too many has drowned in self-induced mis­ery at her boyfriend's perceived heartless blunders. It's time to wake up and realize 
Deborah
that couples don't enter a rela­
Seller

tionship to sabotage each 
other's happiness. 
University of
There must be an explana­
California ­
tion. 
Davis

The problem is that men and 
The California
women really do speak the lan­
Aggie

guage diflcrently, a fact sup­
ported beyond doubt by a myri­
ad ofsociological studies. This fact has opened a 
whole branch of academics in gender communica­
tions. Like any other language, male and female 
speech can be learned. And since knowledge is 
power, the ability to understand what the opposite sex is rnally saying will soon have you rolling in 
their admiration. What foreign language could be 
more usnful than speaking to The Other !lair? 
Let's litee it, when it comes to conversations, women are on a whole separatn plane of protocol. They will sec Significance for the Helationship where a guy got no further than thinking it's time to change the ear oil. It's no wonder we drive each other crazy. 
Women relate by seeking sympathy, but a man will usually misinterpret such indirect statemenl'i as seeking advice. 
Ladies, if there is a certain response you are look­ing for, you need to be explicit in your request. Skip the games because he doesn't have a fighting chance to win them, so you're setting yourself up for disappointment. Do you want reassurance that you're attractive? Then say "tell me why you think I'm beautiful," and not "''m too fat." The first will earn praise of how cute you arc; the second garner a suggestion to go to the gym, since you feel that way. 
And gentlemen, cut down the confrontation. Women have a tendency to avoid conflict by expressing their opinions as qtwstions, which L'i 
meant to open conversation and allow everyone a 
chance to opine; therefore, qw~stions often do not 
express indecision on her part. Try not to shut 
down her suggestions with a curt reply. 
If she asks something like "do you want to stop for food here?" and you reply, "no, thanks," she will interpret the answer a..<; a final command opposite to her preference and be mifl'ed. although you may only be expressing a prnlimmce yourself. 
Another mention: women build fi-iendships by relating porsonal expnriences and identifying with each other (talking), not by throwing around a f(>ot­ball or discussing cars. If you greet news about her day with silence, she'll likely think you aren't listen­ing or don't care. If you're uncomfortable sharing back. then at least smile and nod. 
There arn so many communication tricks to bP learned. In n~Jationships. wonwn probably have tho easier job as litr as learning to bP direct. while men must learn to pick up subtletins. 
In the business lield. it's a dilli'n~nt story. The aggressive and competitive speaking habiL'i of nwn tend to drown out womr.n ust~d to listening with active support and making surt' evt~ryonP IHL'i a chancn to put in lwr two cnnL'>. 
The diflimmce is, I've seen seminars to lwlp women overcome this timidity for business, but have yet to sen men initiate a class to Jearn how to stay out of hot water with their girlli·icnds. Is cling­ing to machismo really worth all thosP nighl'i on thn couch? 
These are only generalizations and do not apply to everyone. but they are still universal enough that the same problems come up over and ovnr again. If this has sounded all too familiar, then go invest in a book on gender communication. Give yourself a fighting chance to avoid the blues. 
This column originally appeared on llpril25 in The California llggie, the daily publication allhe University ofCalifornia -Davis. 
The views in this column are those ofthe author and nol necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Wtint to b~ a~ulumnist, (;opy editor Of mu.ittator for Vi~wpoint? 

THE (}BSERV'ER 

CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, April 26, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Multiple Oscar winners translate 'Interpreter' into hit fillll 
turns, and as soon as audience By JACQUELINE PIMENTEL-GANNON members think they have figured Scene Cri ric out who the bad guy is, they find 
out they are wrong. There is one 
Having Academy Award winners as action sequence aboard a bus the director and the male and female that is a convergence of several leads by no means guarantees that a story lines and really highlights movie will be good, but "The the filmmakers' skill to capture Interpreter" is no disappointment. many things going on at once. Sydney Pollack (Best Director for "The Interpreter" is intriguing 1985's "Out of Africa") directs Nicole from start to finish. Only the end­Kidman (2003 Best Actress for "The ing leaves something to be Hours") and Sean Penn (2004 Best desired -it is anticlimactic after Actor for "Mystic Hiver") in this fasci­such an exciting film. nating thriller. The acting is excellent. Both 
In "The Interpreter" Sylvia Broome Penn and Kidman are convincing (Kidman). an intf~rpreter for the United in their roles, and the supporting Nations. overhears a whispered plot to actors make memorable contri­kill a visiting African dignitary. Federal butions as well. Some lines are Agent Tobin Keller (Penn) is responsi­cliche and could have been writ­ble for the controversial African ten better, but they are delivered leader's safety. well and do and he must not end up 
decide whether The Interpreter taking away or not to believe 
from the Broome's tip. overall dia­This decision logue. 
Federal agent Tobin Keller (Sean Penn, left) Is assigned to protect the life of United
is easily made The best 
when people Director: Sydney Pollack part about Nations interpreter Sylvia Broome (Nicole Kidman) after she overhears vital information. start following Writer: Charles Randolph, Scott Frank, the movie is and trying to kill Steve Zaillian its realistic subject. hers had been used in filming. Pollack its merits, or actually, lack thereof. Broome. Now Starring: Nicole Kidman, Sean Penn, This is a story that had to meet with Kofi Annan to get "The Interpreter" is not a typical Keller must pro­Catherine Keener and Jesper Christensen could easily be permission, and all filming had to be mindless summer movie. Anyone inter­tect Broome imagined occurring done on the weekends so as not to dis­ested in politics or world events will while simultane-today. The fact that turb the day-to-day operations of the greatly enjoy this intellectually stimu­ously trying to find out what secrets the movie was shot inside the UN head­UN. lating film, as will those people who 
she herself is hiding. It is a race quarters in New York greatly enhanced This film offers a fascinating glimpse simply want to see a good suspense against time to try to crack the conspir­its authentic feel. UN staff members into international diplomacy and the film. acy before the dignitary arrives at the appeared as some of the extras. It was tenuous ties that bind shaky relation­UN. the first time that the General ships between states. It also gives an Contact Jacqueline Pimentel-Gannon at 
The movie's plot has many twists and Assembly and Security Council cham-interesting perspective on revenge and jpimente@nd.edu 


'Amityville' hits horror film cliches dead on 
quite good, but those are definitely the nothing like a By MARK BEMENDERFER 
minority. contractor, which 
Scene Cri ric 

Along with ·adopting comic books as is his role in the movies, Hollywood has found a profitable film. Still trim Superman and kryptonite. Hollywood niche in remaking old horror movies. This and very much in and creativity. is a potential goldmine -while horror shape 'from 
It often seems that if a flood of creativity movies are not exactly high-brow enter­"Blade Trinity," washed over Hollywood, most of the exec­tainment, many of them do hold a special he looks too utives and producers would implode from place in the eyes of many people. much like a the pressure. That is why every year the However, the remakes tend to lose sight model instead of audiences are swamped with remakes, of what made the original special. The a husband and sequels and spin-offs. Some of them are original "Dawn of the Dead" was consid­working man. 
ered to be a great satire, but its remake The rest of the lost that social commentary. The "Aliens actors also gave vs. Predator" movie had so many things good perform­wrong with it that it's hard to begin ances, even the describing them. Despite these mishan­younger children. dled translations, Hollywood continues to Children tend to profit on these 'movies, and hence we be a sticky point have "The Amityville Horror" remake. in most movies, 
Based on a "true" story, "The Amityville having had mini­Horror" tells the story of the Lutz family. mal experience 
•Since the family is in a lower income acting, but the bracket, when they lind a terrific house at Lutz kids pulled an amazingly low price, they don't bother their roles off to delve too deeply into the stories of well. "ghosts" which inhabit it. This is too bad, The problems because a little bit of delving might have with the film are not to be found in the this movie, you should go down your own revealed that the ghosts had a little more acting but in the plot. This is the fifth checklist. Do you want to see yet another substance than Amityville, and the spooky kid that seems to know what is first suspected. _producers evident­going on and yet doesn't do much? Do you 
It was hard to The Amityville Horror ly felt that they like movies that crescendo into an anti­criticize any of the 
needed to modern­climax, and then jump out at the audi­acting in the film. ize the movie. In ence? Ryan Reynolds order to do so, However, despite these complaints, the manages to be they looked at suc­movie was still enjoyable. For some, it 
Director: Andrew Douglas
funny in serious cessful current might ruin the spontaneity of horror 
Writer: Scott Kosar 
situations, but that horror movies and movies. But in a genre already filled with 
Starring: Ryan Reynolds, Melissa 
actually helps the went down a predictability, "The Amityville Horror" is 
George, Jesse James, Jimmy Bennet, 
mood instead of checklist. solid enough to be enjoyable, if a little too 
Chloe Moretz 
detracting from it. Spooky kid? closely derived from other Hollywood Fans of "The Check. Jump plots. Shining" know how scares? Check. A amusing something deadly serious can be. promiscuous character? Check. Contact Mark Bemenderfer at 
It should be noted that Reynolds looks To find out whether you might enjoy mbemende@nd.edu 



THE ()BSER\'ER 



CENE
Tuesday, April 26, 2005 
page 13 

DVD REVIEW 

Audiences find no refuge from terror in 'Hotel Rwanda' 

Kidman triumphs, Kutcher flops in box office 

Photo courtesy of mov1eweb com Amanda Peet, left, and Ashton Kutcher star as Emily Frlehl and Oliver Martin In the dlsapolntlng "A Lot Like Love." 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Danny Chan Kwok Kwan plays Brother Sum In "Kung Fu Hustle," the No. 5 box office hit of the week. 
weeks in limited release, Stephen Chow's action comedy "Kung ru Ilustle" was No. 5 with $7.3 million, lifting its total domestic gross to just over $8 million. 
Anthony Anderson's kidnapping com­edy "King's Hansom," so bad it was not scre~ned beforehand for critics. fin­ished in 1Oth place with just $2.4 mil­lion. 
In limited release, the documentarY "Enron: The Smartest Guys in th;~ Hoom" opened strongly with $70.000 at three theaters. The lilm offers an inside 
portrait of the cor­porate scandal at the energy compa­ny. 
Ovnrall business was down for the ninth-straight week, with the top 12 movies taking in $83.4 million. off a fraction from the same weekend last year. 
"The Interpreter," directed by Sydney 
Pollack.  stars  
Kidman  as  a  U.N.  
translator  at  the  

center of an assas­sination plot after she overhears a death threat against an African dictator. Penn co­stars as a federal agent. 
Heviews generally 
were positive, with critics calling "The Interpreter" an unusually brainy thriller. 
"I think audi­ences were anxious for any good, solid story." said Nikki Hocco, head of dis­tribution for Universal, which released "The Interpreter." 
"The Interpreter" was a rare triumph for older audiences. with the over-35 crowd making up (>0 percent of the l'ilrn's viewers. The under-25 audience that drives most of the box office was divided among sev­eral movies. includ­ing "The Amityville Horror" and "A Lot Like Love." 
"You look at the demographic and go, how can 'The Interpreter' be No. 1? But if you put the right movie in the marketplace, the older audience will go," said Paul Dergarabedian. presi­dent of box-office tracker Exhibitor Helations. 
"A Lot Like Love," which received mixed reviews. fell short of distributor Disney's hopes that it would hit $10 million over opening weekend. Considering Kutcher's solid box-office history, including the current hit 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
s,cnc C:ritk 

You might view "llotel Hwanda" with tlw Pxpectation that it will expose its audi­Pn('P to the savagery and genocide that tornwnt(~d tlw Bwandan people in the 1'JlJOs -savag(~ry whose e!Tects arc still ldt today. 
This is corrnct. but the film's primary tlwme is tlw wlwle-sealr~ separation the nation endur(~d. which ranges from the llutus and tlw Tutsis and tapers all the way down to imnwdiat(~ family nwmbnrs. Through this nwthod. "llotPl Bwanda" ronveys to its audinncP the emotional lwartlmmk of Bwandan rr>fugnes as they witness tlw bloodslwd and striw to find a way to (•snqJP. 
llon UwadiP plays Paul BusPsabagina. marwgPr of tlw Mill<' Collirws. a 4-star HPigian llotPI in Kigali. lhP capital or Hwanda. Ilis position enables him to meet wealthy and powerful people, such as <:nnPral Bizimungu (Fana Mokoena), who becanw notorious in leading the genocide of Tutsis in April of 1Y94, and Canadian UN peacekeeper Colonel Oliver (Nick Noll(~). who shows true devotion to reliev­ing the Hwandan people of their plight. 
ThP film opens with ethnic tensions 
Hotel Rwanda 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 
A•.mciated Press 

LOS ANGHLES -Nicole Kidman and S1~arr Perrn's "The lnterproter" translal­IHI into solid box-o!Tic(~ as the United Nations thriller debuted with $22.8 mil­lion to top tlw weekend for Hollywood. 
Tlw wnnknnd's other main debut, Ashton Kutcher and Amanda l'eet's romantic romedy "A Lot Like Love," lrad a so-so opening of $7.7 million, rorning in at No. 4. according to studio nstirnat(~S Sunday. 
l·:xpanding nationwidP after two 
already visible in the city streets, with extremist groups demonstrating. Paul tries to remain oblivious to this and loyal to both his well-financing job and his fam­ily. and he displays his fidelity to his wife Tatiana (Sophie Okonedo) throughout the film. 
All hell breaks loose when the Bwandan president is assassinated, the llutus com­mence genocide of the Tutsis and Paul sees his stability swept out from under his feet. !lis hotel begins to convert into a refuge for llutus and Tutsis alike as the European guests make their way out of the nation and the UN ultimately decides to leave the African natives at the hotel on their own. 
As the plot continues. Paul beconws more and more convinced that the bnst he can do for not only his family. but also the otlwr families. woundnd and Hwandan orphans housPd in at the hotel. is protect them from the chaos outside the hotel boundaries and wait for whatever UN relief Oliver can arrange for them. In the meantime, he bargains and pleads with the likes of Bizimungu to keep all hostili­ties away from his hotel. sometimes hav­ing to outsmart them and even browbeat them to get what he needs to ensure the survival of more than 1 ,200 refugees. 
Cheadle takes on an intrepid role in playing Husesabagina ­his character gets a gun put to his head, and he witness a trail littered with the bodies of murdered Tutsis. The goal for Cheadle is to get through 
this entire trauma without turning his performance into melodramatic falsity, and his emotional scope peaks almost perfectly at the point when he takes serious action. Okonedo is also brave, playing a· devoted wife and mother who demands that Paul not leave the family. 
The film is very lush and colorful ­showing the bright colors worn by both Tutsi and llutu fighters -but makes usc of a dark blue tinting when the film is most down-to-earth and most sobering. One scene in particular, when Tutsi and llutu children are separated from their white caretakers, uses this technique to cast a feeling of despair upon the entire situation. 
The "Hotel Hwanda" DVD is fairly solid. Along with commentaries from Cheadle, director Terry George (a Northern Irishman who stated how poignant the subject became to him and who also deserves applause for his effort and research), the real-life Paul Husesabagina and Wycleaf Jean, there is "A Message for Peace," a feature on the making of the film and "Heturn to Hwanda," detailing Husesabagina's first visit back to Hwanda and the Mille Collines Hotel. However. the film itself. with its critical look at a situa­tion to which the bulk of Western society paid very little attention, remains the big sell. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 

"Guess Who," the performance of "A Lot Like Love" was another sign of audience disinterest in what Hollywood has had to offer the last two months. 
The slump has left the industry limp­ing into its busy summer season. with such big titles as "Star Wars: Episode Ill -Hevcnge of the Sith," "Kingdom of llcaven" and "The Longest Yard" due out in May. 
"There hasn't been that breakout pic­ture the public's jumping to sec yet, but it'll happen. It's just around the cor­ncr," said Chuck Vianc. Disney head of distribution. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 26, 2005 
MLB 



Perez shuts out Houston in 2-0 Pirates victory 

Surhoff leads Orioles over Boston; Phillies end skid against Nats 
Associated Press 

After puzzling his own team all season, Pittsburgh Pirates left­bander Oliver Perez decided to start fooling the guys wearing the other uniforms. 
Perez shook off a season-long slump to allow four hits over 7 2/3 mostly dominating innings, outpitching Roy Oswalt and lead­ing the Pirates to only their sec­ond home victory, over the Houston Astros on Monday night. 
Perez (1-2), taking his catcher's advice by mixing up his pitches more than before, didn't give up a hit until two outs in the sixth and struck out nine. 
Oswalt (3-2) gave up two runs on sacrifice flies to end his three­game winning game. 
Perez developed into one of the NL's top starters at age 22 last season, going 12-10 with a 2.98 ERA and 239 strikeouts. But this season couldn't have gone much worse for the left-hander before Monday, as he was 0-2 with a 
9.00 ERA and six homers allowed in 19 innings. "But I forget everything 

· tonight," Perez said. "I had to be focused, because this was an important game for us. We need­ed to win." According to catcher Humberto Cota, Perez turned it around by changing his pitching pattern. "He's been in the big leagues almost three years and the hit­ters are starting to know him, they know he's got that great slider," Cota said. "So he's pitch­ing backward more -when he sees them moving up in the box for the slider, he's throwing the fastball. He's doing the little things now, not just trying to overthrow the ball." 
The Pirates had a major league-worst 1-6 home record, but ended a four-game losing streak at PNC Park by dropping the Astros' road record to 1-9­also the worst in the majors. The Astros not only couldn't hit Perez consistently, they lost a possible run because of a fan interference call. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
"Our rotten luck is a little worse than their rotten luck," manager Phil Garner said. 
Craig Biggio doubled down the left-field line with two outs in the eighth and a runner on first, but Raul Chavez was stopped at third when a fan touched the ball. Garner wasn't certain if Chavez might have scored on the play. 
Orioles 8, Red Sox 4 
B. J. Sur hoff hit a two-run homer and Bruce Chen pitched effectively into the seventh inning, leading the Baltimore Orioles over the Boston Red Sox Monday night. 
Brian Roberts went 3-for-5 with two RBis and a pair of stolen bases for the Orioles, win­ners of 12 of 17 games. 
After being shutout in consecu­tive games by the Red Sox in Baltimore last week, the Orioles, who were 6-3 at Fenway Park last season, scored one in the first, two in the second and three in the fourth to open a 6-2 lead. 
Jason Varitek homered in the sixth inning for the Red Sox. 
Chen (2-1) kept the Red Sox batters off balance most of the night by mixing in a soft curve­ball and a changeup. He allowed three runs on nine hits in six­plus innings, while walking three and striking out three. 
Todd Williams escaped a two­on, none-out jam in the seventh by getting Edgar Renteria to bounce into a double play and Manny Ramirez on a grounder to short. 
Baltimore jumped ahead 2-1 in the second. Luis Matos had an RBI double after Javy Lopez walked and B. J. Surhoff singled. One out later, first baseman David Ortiz misplayed Geronimo Gil's grounder, allowing Surhoff to score from third. 
Baltimore chased starter David Wells (2-3) with three runs in the fourth. Surhoff homered into the first row of the right-field seats after Lopez reached on an infield hit. Wells pulled up lame briefly after chasing down Lopez's slow roller and walked gingerly back to mound. The trainer came out but Wells faced five more batters before leaving with a sprained right foot. 
Wells, who shut out the Orioles on three hits over eight innings last Wednesday in Baltimore, gave up six runs and eight hits in just 3 2/3 innings. Wells entered Monday's game with a 15-inning scoreless string over his past two starts, both Boston shutouts. 


Phlllies 5, Nationals 4 
This victory should have been a walk in the park for the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Taking advantage of seven free passes offered by Washington pitchers -plus two errors -the Phillies built a four-run lead, then held on to beat the Nationals Monday night and end a three-game losing streak that dropped them into last in the NL East. 
The Nationals have gone 2-6 since opening their first season in Washington 8-4. 
Cory Lidle (1-2) went six innings, allowing three runs and eight hits, and helped himself with an RBI single. Rhea! Cormier pitched the seventh, and Tim Worrell gave up a run in the eighth before giving way to clos­er Billy Wagner, who got the last four outs for his 250th career save. 
The Phillies took a 5-1 lead into the bottom of the sixth, then let most of it slip away against a Washington team that has scored 50 of its 88 runs in the seventh inning or later. The Nationals pulled within 5-3 on Brian Schneider's two-run triple in the sixth. 
They made it a one-run game in the eighth when Jose Vidro led off with a triple after an 11-pitch at-bat and scored on Jose Guillen's sacrifice fly. 
But Wagner came on with a runner on first and two outs and got pinch-hitter Gary Bennett to fly out to center. 
In the ninth, Wagner gave up two-out singles to Brad Wilkerson and Nick Johnson before retiring Vidro on a fly to left for his fourth save. 
Nationals starter Zach Day (1­

2) allowed five runs -three earned -and five hits in 5 1-3 innings. He was hurt by some defensive lapses and his control: Half of his 96 pitches were balls, and he issued f'ivP walks (one intentional). 
Six of the Phillies' seven hits were singlt>s; thP biggPst was Placido Polanco's that drovP in two runs in the sixth. Jose Offerman hit a triple in the eighth but was strand(~d. 
In each of the three innings in which Day gave up a run, at least one Phillies batter reached by a base on balls. Philadelphia came into the game second in the NL with 79 walks.With one out in the second, Day walked Jason Michaels, who went to third on Chase Utley's single. 
Then Day, who relies on getting batters to hit grounders, got David Bell to do just that: Third baseman Vinny Castilla scooped up Bell's roller and began what looked as if it would be a text­book double play to get out of the inning.Castilla forced Utley at second, but second baseman Vidro's throw to first skipped past the bag, allowing Michaels to score. 
The Observer accepts classilitds every business day from 8 a.m. rn 3 \J.m. at the Notre llarne oftice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3 p.m. AI classilicds must be prepaid The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserve; the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Charming home 1407 Sarin 2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, Beautiful suite available for gradua-Woodbridge condo townhouse. 1/2 mi from ND, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. lion, football weekends and all spe-Open concept. 2Bdrm + TV room LOST AND FOUND FOR SALE 2 BR, 1 Ba,AC,FP, cia I events. that can be 3rd bdrm. 1.5 bath, 2 Full Bsmt, Gas heat, www.andersonNDrentals.com Near ND. decks, clubhousew/pool. Wooded 
Black leather wallet of Visiting New London Lakes Condo, Fenced yard,patio,Gar, Reasonably priced. area WID, D/W, carport. NO smok-Fellow @ Kroc Peace Institute miss-walking distance to ND, Dg Kennel,all applncs. $55,000. STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER ND alum owner/managed. ers/pets. Furnished $1800/mo.; Not ing. Disappeared Tues 4/12 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, lake view, 233-7616. MONTH All utilities, ADT security, 574-271-7205 furnished $1300/mo. 1st & last pay­
in/around Hesburgh Center for Inti 2 car garage, pool, phone/cable/DSL, W/D, Lawn serv-men! + $1000 security and 1-yr Studies. Most problematic loss: driv-completely remodeled House 701 Northwood Dr. $76K. ice. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.OS/06. Call GREAT LOCATION lease. Please call574-272-0360. 
er s license (pink, NL), very difficult $129,900 <2miles to ND. Nice neigh. 315-3215 522 Napoleon. Faculty,staff or grad. to replace. If seen, PLS RETURN, (574) 256-2198 or (574) 255-3930 2Bed/1.5Bth. 4blks from ND. drop off at Kroc lnst., no questions Hardwood/WetBar/Fireplace/1 car 4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots 2bdrm remodeled home available 
asked.Thx M Parlevliet, tel1-Brand name Queen pillowtop mat-del. Gar./fenc.yard. of room. 5/1. 
PERSONALS 

2628/1-0253; 12arlevlie1.1 @ nd.edu tress set. Tel277-5695 Call Judy 574-298-6217. $600, New in plastic. Full warranty. (219)629-5483 Keep dreaming, baby. $185. 2&3 bdrm houses close to ND. 
WANTED 574-876-4474 FoR RENT $350/mo/person.Lawn service & ND Grad Student renting studio apt. So I do! 
appliances incl. 273-4889. for 05/06 year. Summer Camp Jobs I Work with Full mattress set with warranty. Clean homes close to ND. 1 mile from ND. I love you, Alison people with disabilities. Great job Unopened in Plastic. Sacrifice $145. 2-8 bdrms. 5-bedroom house for rent 2005-06. $400/mo includes all utilities + cable 
experience, fun people,make 57 4-231-4522. High-end and furnished. Close to campus. 105 Marquette TV + internet Keeping the vegetable drawer in the money! Near Wisconsin Dells. Ask about FREE student rent pro-Ave. 232-6964. 574-339-0582 fridge all summer just to put it on a www.EasterSealsWisconsin.com IRISH CROSSINGS gram. shelf next year is a really good idea or call 1 800.422.2324 Luxurious, spacious homes one Blue & Gold Homes 2 bdrm, 1 bath remodeled furnished 1 bdrm apt.1/2 mi to ND. 
block east of campu.s. (574)250-7653 house close to ND, $700/mo. $575/mo. All the usual. ... except Ken Fowler Professor seeking full-time nanny Walk to campus yearround. 2844089,9-Spm; Laundry room 
for summer and/or beyond. Closer to the Joyce Center than 24 6 BEDROOM 703-7276217 after Spm Call 283-0325. When clothmg's on the line, I'm Competitive salary. of the 27 dorms! 3.5 BATH. gonna take your clothes References and transportation Now under construction! For more 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 4 bdrm house, 1.5 3 Blks from ND, 318 Pokagon, 
required information: 1950 PER MONTH + ba.Furnished.Family or 2 grad stu-3 Bd, 3.5 Bath $1450. Jappy Oliver;Officer Ramathorn??? Contact Alesha Seroczynski at Go to: www.lrishCrossings.com DEP. STAFF AND FACULTY ONLY dents. $900/mo +utilities. Close to ND Discount available 7-1-05. 247-1064 for more information. Email: lrishCrossings@gmail.com CALL BRUCE 876-3537. ND. 287-7189 or lv msg Email:pokagon@hotmail.com The monkey has been fed 

Tuesday, April 26, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA PLAYOFFS 


T-Mac's 22-footer sends series back to Dallas 
McGrady's 28-10-8 and Yao's 33 and 8 are enough to create a two-game cushion 
A1tsoci.11ed Pres~ backcourt and set up behind a Yao screen on the top right of 
llALLAS -With Shaq and the 3-point line. lie buried a Kobe broken up, get ready for long 2-pointer, then made a tlw era of Yao and T-Mac. It sneering gesture as the arrived in Game 2 of the play­Mavericks called lime. 
off's. "We shocked them a little bit 
Yao Ming scored 33 points on by not calling time out," 1 :l-of'-14 shooting -with his McGrady said. "My teammates only miss arguably being more didn't even know." 
of a turnover -and Tracy Given one last chance to sal­Md;rady added 28, but it was vage a split at home, Dallas tlwir spectacular baskds in the failed when Michael Finley linal I:O(J that mattered most in missed a jumper. Mavs coach llouston 's thrilling 113-111 vic­Avery Johnson said Dirk lory ovm· the Dallas Mavericks Nowitzki was the first option, on Monday night for a 2-0 lead but he was double-teamed. in tlwir lirst-round series. "lie had a good shot at the "It's a nnw series for us. free throw line," .Johnson said. 
We're dd'initely in the driver's "It just didn't go in." seat." said McGrady, who is The series moves to llouston l1~nry of !wing too optimistic for Game 3 on Thursday night. 
al'ler his team blew a 3-1 lead The Hockets will be carrying a in his last playoff' trip, two years nine-game winning streak, ago with Orlando. "We've got to whill~ the Mavs will be reeling stay ground1•d. \VP hawn't dorw from their lirst consecutive loss­anything yPt." es under Johnson. They carne 
Af'tPr rontrolling tlw opPrwr into tlw playoffs 16-2 in his lirst and thl' lirst half of this ganll', live weds since replacing Don LIH' Horkl'ts traill'd 102-95 with N1dson and now have that many 5::HJ IPft wl11•n McGrady began losses in three days. 
a go-aiH'ad run of six straight The lirst concern for Dallas is shots with anotlwr of his amaz­getting Nowitzki going. lie was 
ing j um pers. Af't !H' the 4-of'-17 -and 9-of-36 for the Mavnicks tied it at 109, series -when he made a 16­llouston's dynamic duo came footer in transition with 7:09 through again, with McGrady left. lie scored again on the driving to tlw rim. tlwn slipping next trip and put Dallas head tlw ball to Yao for an easy dunk 107-106 with 2:32 left on a with I :06 ldt. hook over Yao. Still, he finished 
Dallas answered. though, 8-of-21 for 26 points. lie had wlu~n Dirk Nowitzki -who just two rebounds and commit­broke out of his series-long ted three turnovers. slump midway through the Five other Mavs scored in Barry, including three straight 102-82 loss in the opener of O'Neal for 15. fourth quarter faked 
double figures, with Josh 3s early in the second quarter, their playoff series. Then O'Neal missed 22 gamesMcC;rady soveral times and lloward putting up 17, Jason and 14 from Bob Sura, includ­"After what happened in with a sprained right shoulder nailed a jumper from around Terry 15 and Erick Dampier 14. ing the 3-pointer that put Game 1, we all knew he would before returning with just three 
the rn~e throw line with 10.4 Keith Van Horn came off the 
Houston up 109-107. come back in a big way," Pacers games left. But said he doesn't seconds left. bench to score 13, going 5-for-It was only fitting that this coach Rick Carlisle said after expect to make his usual offen­McGrady, however. never hes­6. game came down to the last they tied the series 1-1. "He is sive contributions for the rest of 
itated. With Yao scoring his most shot considering how the teams the guy you want on your team the playoffs.Bunning a play he and coach points since getting 40 against fought on every possession . this time of year. We'll keep rid­And starting point guard.JolT Van Gundy set up during Toronto on Dec. 20, and 
Someone wrote "Energy, Effort, ing him as long as we can." Jamaal Tinsley is still sidelined 
the last timeout. but hadn't McGrady making 10 of 19 shots, Excitement" on a wipe board in The best-of-seven series shifts after missing the last 29 regu­sharl'd with anyone but Yao, 
the Bockets didn't need much Dallas' locker room bofore the to Indiana on Thursday night lar-season games with a bruised 
McCrady esrapPd a trap in the else. They got 16 from Jon gamo. and both teams embod­for Game 3. left foot. ied it throughout, much to the Miller plans to retire after the Still, tlw team that mad!' it to delight of 20,884 fans. the season, but still had a big shot last year's !~astern Confl~ri'IH'I' largest crowd in Mavs history. left in his 39-year-old body. liP linals. wlwre it lost to l>l'troit. 
Players were scrambling for sank a running jump shot with managed to get the No. 6 s1wd loose balls and hurrying to help 37 seconds to go from 17 feet in this year's playoff's. on defense. There were several for the game's linal points after "The fourth quartN was kind collisions, one leaving Barry's deciding to forgo a 3-point of how our season's gorw, play­nose bloodied, another sending attempt when he saw Hicky ing through adversity, going Houston's Hyan Bowen to the Davis running at him. through ups and downs," said locker room to check his ankle. lie dribbled and "got by him a Jackson, who scored 16 of his And that was just in the first couple of steps and just pulled 20 points in the first quarter. half. up," Miller said. ·~Any adversity we go through is 
The Hockets led the entire Simple as that for a veteran nothing to us now." lirst half, by as much as eight, who has seen just about every Boston had taken its biggPst but the Mavericks gained con­defensive approach in his 18 lead, 75-&8, on Davis' baskPt trol early in the second half­NBA seasons. with 8:21 n~maining. But for the lirst time since 12-10 in But he said he's not more Indiana outscored tlw Celtirs Game 1 -and were ahead emotional because this is his 18-10 in the fourth quartPr. most of tho last two quarters. last season. which began with tlw CPltirs 
McGrady still had his share of "Not at all. I'm locked into a l!~ading 69-64. highlight-reel plays, though not great playoff series," he said. Antoine Walker, who had 19 as many as the opener. This ''I'm very encouraged how we points. hit a layup that put time, he made Dallas pay for played, for the most part." Boston ahead 78-74 with 2:41 double-l!~aming him by swing­That was no surprise to tht> left. Anthony Johnson's short ing the ball around until linding Celtics. jumpPr cut tlw !Pad to two and the person left open by the sec­"We knew tlw Pacers werP Indiana til•d t.lw gam1• on ond defender. Later. the Mavs going to come out with a bPttPr Jackson's dunk with 1:41 to go. covered him 1-on-1 with some effort," said Paul Pil•rce, who Tlwn .Johnson hit an easy layup decent results -until it mat­led Boston with :n points. and Pierce mad1• mw of two frPP tered most. "Heggie did a great job carrying throws, leaving Indiana alwad 
this team." 80-79 with 5(J seconds n~rnain­Pacers 82, Celtlcs 79 Miller hit 9-of-18 shots al'ter ing. 
Heggie Miller and the Indiana going 1-for-7 in the opener. The Pierce had a chance to til• it. Pacers climbed out of another Pacers have needed him but missed a very long 3-point­hole, just as they've done all because of all the k1iy players er with 3.2 seconds to go. season. they lost for long stretches. "We were not as aggressivP 
Now they have home-court After the melee on Nov. 19 at las they were Saturday! and advantage in their playoff series Detroit when several of them that's something we have to do with the Boston Celtics. went into the stands, Bon Artest offensively," Pierce said. 
Miller scored 28 points and was suspended for the rest of The Celtics also can do a bPt­
AP the Pacers beat the Celtics 82-the season and the playoffs. ter job of speeding up tlw tempo 79 Monday night two days after Stephen Jackson was suspend­and not get into the Pacers' pn•­he had just seven points in a ed for 30 games and Jermaine ferred halfeourt style. 







OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April26, 2005 COMPILED FROM 'fnr: 0BSHlVER'S WHU: SERVICES Page 16 
MLB 




Associated Press sworn statement from a ble," and called the former ed Dykstra with steroids 
Florida bodybuilder and bodybuilder "biased and "more times than I can 
convicted drug dealer "'.1o aligned with Jones." In the count," and that Dykstra 
LOS ANGELES -Lenny said Dykstra paid him past, Dykstra h11s denied stepped up his steroid use 
Dykstra has been accused $20,000 plus "special using steroids. in spring training of 1993 
in a civil lawsuit of taking perks" during their eight­Jones, seeking to regain because it was a contract 
steroids and gambling ille­year association to "bulk interest in the car wash year. 
gally during his baseball up" the once-slight business, said in a sworn That year, Dykstra led 
career, according to a ballplayer. statement that the base­the National League in 
newspaper report. Dykstra's lawyer, Daniel ball wagers were a form of hits, walks and runs, near­
Lindsay Jones, Dykstra's Petrocelli, told the Times payment to him, made "on ly doubled his previous 
former partner in a lucra­the three-time All-Star the basis that Lenny would high in home runs, fin­
tive car wash business, "absolutely denies" the cover all losses. and I ished second to Barry 
alleges in the suit that the gambling allegation, call­would use the winnings to Bonds for most valuable 
former Philadelphia center ing it "unsubstantiated" live on." player and led 
fielder advised him to bet and "a fabricated story The lawsuit, filed last Philadelphia to the World 
thousands of dollars with a from a disgruntled part­year in Ventura County Series. 
bookmaker on selected ner." Superior Court. is in bind­Baseball did not ban 
Phillies games in 1993. the Petrocelli. citing Jeff ing arbitration and a deci­steroids until 2002. though 
Los Angeles Times report­Scott's criminal past. also sion is expected this week. the substances became 
ed in Sunday editions. said the steroid allegation Scott told the Times in illegal in 1991 unless pre­
The suit also includes a was not "reliable or credi-an interview that he inject-scribed by a physician. 
IN BRIEF 

Roddick wins U.S. Men's "I feel as good as I have." Roddick have 11 guys working together all Clay title said. "1 hit it [training] hard. A cou­the time, and you need to coach 
HOUSTON -Andy Roddick might ple of weeks that I couldn't do much. them to play the game. These three have put all that talk about him not I was just focusing a lot on off-court players were outstanding individuals being a good player on clay to rest. stuff and I felt it paid divide~ds this for Ball State and were team guys all 
Roddick completed a dominant week. I felt I was moving really well. the way." 
week on clay Sunday by easily beat­Three Ball State football All three were taken on the sixth ing Sebastien Grosjean of France 6-players drafted round on Sunday. They'll report to 2, 6-2 for his third U.S. Men's Clay MUNCIE, Ind. -Ball State's foot­their new teams Thursday and begin 
Court title in five years. ball team last season had more NFL rookie minicamps next week. 
"It's a challenge, it's something draft picks than victories. Gaudio fights off match they said -I can't play on clay," The Cardinals had more players point for comeback victory Roddick said. "This is the stuff you selected -three -than Notre EIRAS, Portugal -French Open live for. Sometimes you have to get a Dame, and more than Purdue and champion Gaston Gaudio saved a little chip on your shoulder. I'll defi­Indiana combined. match point and went on to beat Jan nitely try to change that negative to a The picks of receiver Dante Hernych of the Czech Hepublic 6-7 positive." Ridgeway and punter Reggie Hodges, (5}. 7-5, 6-0 in the first round of the 
''I'm as confident as I have felt both by St. Louis, and safety Justin Estoril Open on Monday. going over there," Roddick said. ''I'm Beriault, by Dallas. gave Ball State a Hernych had a match point serving excited about the opportunity to take record three players taken in the at 5-4 in the second set, but second­a good round here and take it over draft this year. seeded Gaudio fought back in the there against the guys that play on Not bad for a team that won only midst of winning 10 consPcutivP this stuff and that's how they pay the two games. games. The match lasted 2 hours. 24 bills." "This is definitely proof that foot­minutes. 
Roddick felt fit for the tournament ball is the ultimate team game." Ball "It was very complicated but 1 did despite playing in his first tourna­State coach Brady Hoke said it and I am very happy," said Gaudio. ment in three weeks. Monday. "In this game, you need to from Argentina. 

Tuesday, April 26, 200'5 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 

Suns upbeat headed into Game 2 with Memphis 
Star forward Shawn Marion expected to play despite injury 
Associated Press 

1'110EN IX -Shawn Marion's aching wrist and Amaro Stoudtqllirn's low-scoring play­off dobut wore thn dominant subjoets a day al'ler the l'honnix Suns unlnaslwd a 3­point barragn to boat tho MPmphis c;rizzlitlS. 
Coarh MikP !)'Antoni didn't lt•t Pitht•r issuP aiTPct his good humor or his faith in his young tPam hPading into (;allH' 2 of thP bPSl-of-SPVPn first-round sPrit•s on WndnPsday night. 
Marion sprainnd his righ l wrist on a hard foul from Shann Batlior in Sunday night's 114-l<>:i triumph over tlw (;rizzlitlS. 
liP stayod in thn gamn but was wnaring a bntCil and did­n't practicn on Monday. 
"It hurts, man," Marion said. "If it was today, it would be no-go. Wn'll snn how it is in a couplP of days." 
[)'Antoni dismissnd the prospnct of playing without Marion -who had 26 points and I3 rebounds in llw <Jpnn­nr. 
''I'm not giving him that pos­sibility," [)'Antoni joknd. "If it's barPly brok11n, lw's still going. It's got to lw a com­pound fractun•. It's got to lw a bonP sticking out of his skin." 
In othPr words. PXfll'Cl. Marion to play. 
Tht• (;rizzfips' ddPnSll ron­rPntratPd on StoudllmirP. thP NBA's IHth-IPading scortlr at 2(J points per game. StoudPmirP wound up with nirw points. lie was lwld to singiP digits only six limPs in HO ganws in tho rngular sea­son. 
So Phoenix relind on its long-rangn option, and sank I !i-of-32 :~-pointers. 
"Tiwy ean tlitlwr stay on the shootPrs and IPt me get a few tourhPs, or sag in on nw and lt'l thtl shootPrs get all tlw touchns," Stoudnrnire said. "Whallwnr tlw rasn may be, 
it's tough for them." 
Stoudrm1ire could have had 

the ball a few more times, 
[)'Antoni said, but the Suns 
fell in love with the 3-point 

shot. 
"Sometimes he was there and he was open and we did­n't get him the ba]J," D'Antoni said. "They don't give him a lot or opportunities, but when they do, we need to take advantage of it. 
"But somntimes we get in a 3-point mode and don't think we can miss, and maybe take sonw ill-advised shots once in a whiln." 
Stnvn Nash praisod tlw 22­yPar-old StoudnmirP for not caving in to frustration when tho Grizzlies shut down the Suns' devastating pick-and­roll. 
"We'd liko to get the ball to Amare," Nash said. "That's our No. 1 goal. At the same time, when we're making 3s like that and guys arc open, it's hard to find that fine line of when to take the shot and when to try to find Amaro. By the end of the series. Amaro will have his say, that's for sure." 
Stoudemire had a warning if the Grizzlies change their tac­tics and he gets loose inside. 
"If I do get the ball, it's going to be a tragic ending to their series," he said. "But we've got guys who can shoot the ball from the outside, so it's pick your poison." 
c;rizzlies' eoach Mike Fratnllo took tho cornmon­sensn approach that it would bn hardPr for thn Suns to knock down 3s than it would for Stoudomire to slam home dunks. 
Phom1ix ruined the strategy by sinking 7-ol'-8 3-pointers, ineluding four straight to end the first quarter. to blow open a 39-28 lead. 
"You have to give something to get something and try to deal with certain strengths of teams," Fratello said. "You know that when you try to take away certain things it may opnn up other things and it's whether or not they take advantage of that." 
Since each Suns' starter had at least one 30-point game 


\t;:~:~ ·:.i$ t\~f~Y lG~!;..·:t~t fof :l~..Jf=(J'-:: Of ~jw~t~~~=r 1/:J t::eJ~~i~J.f:<~~(~ 
Students Call Before You P.ack...
''' 

Free delivery on boxes and supplies 
•G~1.l ·~<r <!<:till~ 
w~ &li!i> · <:r:''"''l~<¥ sulll1li"" ,<\! Mlli11 ua !>MI:iJ.d~:!' SdfSI<1r• ·wt f... ~kKlukf ..'II"<::
'ii 
Cheap boxes!!! 
As low as $1.00 
Tel: 574 ..256..5339 
something away." 
The Grizzlies played the Suns even after that first quarter, but never could catch them or make the critical stop. Fratello said his players got caught up in the supercharged atmosphere and tried to run with the Suns in tho first quartnr. 
"You know that fools gold you talk about. where you'rp kind of running along saying 'llcy, this is nice. 22-21, it's cool,"' Fratello said. "Then all of a sudden you gnt hit with four :{-pointnrs in a row. We have to IParn from those type of things." 
()'Antoni is emphasizing to his young tPam that it's only lJtlP gam!'. and that thP (;rizzlies' trip would b(' a suc­cess with a win on Wndrwsday that would sm1d tlwm back to Phoenix tit~d 1-1. 
"It's really important," D'Antoni said. "Their objectiVl' is to come in here and get onP. Just because we won Sunday doesn't mean anything." 
"We're back to square one, and we've got to go after it." 

this season, and Stoudemire topped 40 six times, the Grizzlies know there is no easy answer, and that their strategy for Game 1 probably was as good as any. 
They just have to do a better job and hope the inevitable shots don't fall. 
"The one thing that we've got to concentrate on is when we do drop down and take 
away the inside," forward Mike Miller said, "that then we get out and contest the 3s or make them put it on the l1oor one time and make them make an extra pass. There's no question they're going to get shots. 
"When everyone can shoot and there's big guys down low that can play. you've got to give something up to take 

NBA 
Telfair to be featured in new docu111entary 
Trail Blazers rookie jumped straight from high school to NBA 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Sebastian Telfair was at Jay-Z's Manhattan nightdub with his family, watch­
ing TV  and  waiting for  the  
announcement  from  the  
Madison  
Square  
Garden  
podium that  
would send  
him  across  
the country  
and change  
his life.The  
Brooklyn  Telfair 
point guard  
with a daz­ 

zling mix of smarts and skills was selected by the Portland Trail Blazers with the No. 13 pick in last year's NBA draft. 
That moment is captured by director Jonathan Hock and cin­
-ematographer Alastair Christopher in "Through the Fire." The documentary made its world premiere at the Tribeca Film Festival -a mere subway ride away from the Coney Island housing project where Telfair grew up -and chronicles the soul-searching of one of the most publicized high school players to come out of New York. 
''I'm not a pro basketball scout, but he"s a basketball prodigy," Hock said. "They've been talking about him since the sixth grade." 
Telfair was the fourth high schooler drafted that year, the latest in a growing line of abun­dantly gifted players ready to tangle in the NBA with no col­lege interruption, a trend the NBA would like to halt with a minimum age limit of 20. 
This was no easy choice and no easy time for Telfair, a 6-foot, 160-pounder who led power­house Abraham Lincoln High School to three New York City public league titles and one state championship. NBA scouts tracked his every point and assist during his senior year. A sneaker deal was thrown at him by Adidas. lie made it to the cover of Sports Jllustrated. 
And always present, like a great weight, there was the deci­sion: Go pro or attend Louisville and play for Rick Pitino? 
His cousin Stephan Marbury of the New York Knicks spent a year at Georgia Tech before he was selected fourth in the NBA draft. llis half brother, Providence's Jamel Thomas, dreamed of NBA stardom but wasn't chosen. 
Hock originally planned a short piece about high school players heading directly to the NBA -like Kobe Bryant, Kevin Garnett and LeBron James ­for HBO's "On the Record With Bob Costas." What he found was a more compelling story. 
"Clearly someone was going to be next, and it was going to be very interesting to watch it hap­pen," Hock said. "And the per­son people were talking about was Sebastian. And I'd been out to Coney Island and I'd seen him play and nobody really thought that it would happen for him because he's small, but everyone was kind of rooting for him." 
Telfair, who turns 20 in June, always believed he was ready to play with the big boys, but admits he still has a lot to learn. He started toward the end of the season after Portland coach Maurice Cheeks was fired, and finished with an average of 6.8 points and 3.3 assists in nearly 20 minutes a game. 
Judith, Don't be scared.. . you're not 22 yet.. . 
MLB 
Cubs down Cincinnati 10-6 
Associated Press 
Mark Prior feels like he is 
getting close to his dominant 
form. Teammate Nomar 
Garciaparra hopes surgery will 
help him return to the Cubs' 
lineup more quickly. 
Prior struck out a season­
high 10 in six strong innings 
and Neifi Perez hit a three-run 
homer and had four RB!s to 
lead the Chicago Cubs over the 
Cincinnati Heds on Monday 
night. 
After the game, Garciaparra 
said he will have surgery on 
his groin Wednesday in 
Philadelphia and hopes to play 
again this season. Dr. William 
C. Meyers will not reattach the groin. but will clean up tissue around the injured area. 
"The decision was made dur­
ing today's game after coming 
back and talking to the doc­
tors," Garciaparra said. "It's 
going to be a minor procedure. 
"When you do something like 
this, it's not just the tendon, 
there's other tissues that often 
get damaged when you have 
something this extreme," he 
added. 
The shortstop injured his 
groin last Wednesday in St. 
Louis when he slipped running 
out of the batter's box. He is 
expected to miss several 
months. 
Prior (3-0) fought thorough 
wildness over the first three innings, throwing 63 pitches and walking two, but still . struck out six. He had three strikeouts in the second inning but Austin Kearns reached first base when he swung at a 
wild pitch for strike three. 
"It's coming. I felt probably the best I've felt," Prior said. 
"They're a good hitting ball­club. Think about the hitters they got in there, ]Ken) Griffey, [Sean] Casey, [Adam] Dunn, they're very good and tough to face back-to-hack," said Prior. You're trying to reinvent the wheel as far as pitch sequences. Getting through those innings, matching their pitcher, gave us a chance to stay in the game. 
Prior has won all three of his starts this season and is look­ing a lot like the pitcher he was in 2003 when he went 18­
6. He gave up his first earned run of the year in the fourth, a leadoff homer to Austin Kearns. 


UNIVERSin· Of NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE & CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 
Prior struck out Wilson with his 106th and final pitch to retire the side in the sixth. He gave up two runs on six hits and two walks. lie didn't want to push another inning so early in the season. 
"No sense in getting blown out in first part of season. I'm still trying to get into shape," Prior said. 
Perez broke a 2-all tie in the li!'th inning with an HBl single to right field off Wilson. 
Derrek Lee then followed with a two-run double to left. scoring Jerry Hairston and Perez to give the Cubs a 5-2 lead. Lee was 2-for-3 with two RBls. 
PURCELL SCHUBERT WAGNER
? ? 
MENDELSSOHN? RACHMANINOFF 8:00P.M., FRIDAY, APRJL 29, 2005 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL DEBARTOLO 
~.. PERFORMING ARTS CENTtR

DfBARTOlO CENTER FOR TI-Jf l'I'RI'ORMING ARTS 
~UNIVBRSITYOF

ADMISSION $10: FACUI.lY/S'IAFF $8: SENIORS$<>; STUDENTS $3 
RESERVATIONS 574-631-2800 WNOTREDAME 

Tuesday, April 26, 2005 page 19
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-... 
IMPORTANT NOTICE 
University Health Center Temporary Closure and Move 
The University Health Center will be closed to all services from 4p.m. on Friday, May 20t\ 2005 
until 8a.m. on Tuesday, June ih, 2005. The Health Center will be actively relocating to the old 
Campus Security Building during this time, so that the planned year long renovation of our 
present location may commence. 
The "old" Campus Security building is located across the street from Rockne Memorial and the 
Burke Memorial Golf Course. Health Services will be located on the first floor beginning June 
i 11 until renovation is complete. The building will be called the Student Health Center and OIT 
Annex. 

Important Dates Summer 2005 University Health Center Schedule 
Friday, May 20th 4p.m.-Tuesday, June 7th 8a.m.-University Health Center CLOSED 
New Location: Student Health Center/OIT Annex (Old Security Building across from Rockne) 
Tuesday, June 7t11 , 2005-Sunday, August 14'11, 2005 Monday-Friday Clinic Hours: 8a.m.-4p.m. Physician Hours: 9a.m.-12 noon and 1 p.m.-4p.m. 
**Pharmacy Hours: 12 noon -4p.m. through Friday, July 29th 
th F . A 19th
8a.m.-4p.m. July 29 through nday, ugust 
University Health Center is closed on weekends and July 4th. 
In a non emergency situation, services may be provided by a local physician, Med Point or at the emergency rooms of St. Joseph Regional Medical Center or Memorial Hospital depending on the student's or visitor's insurance carrier. 
For all medical emergencies, please dial 911. 
Employees injured on the job during the time of the temporary University Health Services closure will follow the guidance of their supervisor and the guidelines that will be provided by the Office of Risk Management. 
Great Care... No Matter Where! 
l l 
I I 
I 

~ I I I I 
tTc University Health Services 
www.nd.edu/""uhs 
I I I I I I 

• II 
I 
l 


ALLIE GREENE!The Observer 

Kelly McDavitt serves in a Monday match against Olivet. The Belles defeated Olivet in a 9-0 shutout. 
page 20 
Greats 
continued from page 24 
"The worst thing you can do is take them all through practice and bring them in to a game sit­uation and then all of a sudden say 'OK, half of the offense goes over here. the other half goes over here.' You almost defeat the purpose of why you practice so much." 
While supporting Theismann's J:easoning, Montana. who was acquainted with Weis as a stu­dent, defended his inheritance of the Blue team. 
"It helps when you know him from school," Montana said. "lie was a suitemate of a couple guys I knew." 
Before the game, each coach spoke to the team, with Montana, Theismann and Zorich speaking at Friday's team meet­ing and Brown giving the pre­game speech on Saturday. Much of what they said revolved around the direction of the foot­ball program. 
"When I talked to them today, I tried to let them know, 'Hey, I've been right where you are.' In 1986 when Lou llloltz] came in. he was talking about all these great things that we were going to do. but WP had to believe in him. It started that year. and a couplr years later. they won the championship," Brown said. "The same thing here. these guys have to do the same thing. They have to believe in what's happening, and I think if they do, they'd bring it back." 
Yet, much of what the four coaches told the team tran­scended the playing field. 
"We're trying to let these guys know that this experience, these are going to be the best four years of their life. After this, you're going to start paying mortgages, you're going to start paying car notes, having fami­lies and stufr like that, and all of a sudden, it goes a bit faster than it does in college," Zorich said. "I just want to express to them to enjoy their four years here." 
With regards to the football field. the four seemed to be in agreement that Weis was the man to lead Notre Dame to where those close to the team or the school want it to be. 
"Any time you bring in a guy like Charlie Weis, with all his experience. you know that you're headed in the right direc­tion," Brown said. "What I tried to instill on the kids today is, 'Hey look, you have to pay atten­tion to this guy, you have to lis­ten to him. and you have to believe in what he's saying, because he can take you to where you want to go."' 
However, Weis' greatest suc­cess thus far in his short tenure as head coach may prove to be rallying a community that was fragmented by the Tyrone Willingham firing around his 

~------~------­

Graduation Weekend: 
SUMMER WORK 
Your seat is reserved.
• 

• ~="!'J:'~ei;if .\..•.•...•····•.....·.·.············''·'·' ,,.,........... 
Since your parents picked up your meal tab for the
• CustomersaleS/sewice . •• No·exfh.need~d;;; wUFtfa~n <r··.·.·..,,·.·"•·,.....·....................... 
past four years, soy thank you with dinner -but hey,
258.9999 

let them pay, that way they will know it really is you!
327 Union Street, Mishowako 

Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, Friday and Soturday from 5pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawako.com steaks c h 0 s seafood 
team and his players. 
"I think it's no secret I was [angry] with the way the University handled Coach Willingham, I was a huge fan of Coach Willingham's," Zorich said. "Saying that, I got a phone call about a month ago from Coach Weis, and we spent maybe a half hour, forty-five minutes on the phone, and he reminded me so much of what Holtz talked about as far as bringing back an attitude, bring­ing back that winning desire." 
"All of a sudden you have a coach telling you that he needs nasty, mean players. Well, I kinda got excited. So when he asked me to coach, I was like 'Coach? I'm ready to suit up."' 
Without a doubt, the presence of the four coaches proved to be a memorable opportunity for the current Irish players. 
"We talked about a lot of tech­nique and football stuff. lots of life stuff too. It was great having [Zorich] here. He's like a mentor to me. so it was great to be able to talk to him," defensive MVP Trevor Laws said. 
Wide receiver Jeff Samardzija, who played on the Gold team, echoed Laws' sentiments. 
"Any time you can get advice from a great legend like that. you gotta take it all the time," he said. "If you can get some insight on how to play the receiver position better from Tim Brown. its something you want to listen to." 
Ultimately, though, it may 
wins, though. A loss can destroy that confidence real fast. That can be a fragile thing some­times." 
Their next test is a home match Tuesday against Alma College (4-10), a team who shared the Belles 1-4 confer­ence record going into their Monday match against winless 
BRAD CARMEANffhe Observer 

Corey Mays lines up In Saturday's Blue and Gold game. Joe Montana and Chris Zorich coached Mays on the Blue Team. 
Tuesday, April 26, 2005 


season as Stevenson also we have some the squad turns its is pleased with eyes to the MIM
confidence back, 
the confidence tournament next level of the and everyone is weekend. Belles right now. feeling really "We're hoping to 
"I can see it win," she said,
good."
improving," "and then it's a Stevenson said. matter of a getting "They have to Kristen Palombo as many people to keep up the Belles tennis player win as possible, 
ing really good." "J definately think finale. 
Tri-State. Stevenson hopes to see the Belles post a similar performance against the Scots as they did Monday. 
"They also beat Olivet, so it should be a little touglwr than it Wo~ today," he said. "But at least since I've been coach we've never lost to them." 
Palombo also looks for Monday's success and confi­
dence to carry into 
Tuesday's n~gular 
because it gets 
everyone's confi­dence up. We can't take away any of our matches, but we can still play to place higher for the conference tournament, so we have a lot of confidence going into it." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 


The Observer + SPORTS 
have been those who played here years ago who benefited most from the experience. 
"This is probably one of the bigger thrills I've had in a long time. I had a ball. It almost makes me think about coaching ... I never thought that. I would enjoy being on the sidelines like that," Brown said. "It was a blast for me, and that's the one thing you want these guys to understand." 
Despite early speculation to the contrary, Brown will not serve the team in any official capacity next season. Nonetheless, he, along with the other honorary coaches, expressed a willingness to give back to the institution. 
"If we're given the opportunity to help in some way shape or form, I think every one of us would want to do anything we could to help the University of Notre Dame and help the young men here," Theismann said. 
In the end, Montana may have best summarized what it all meant, not only for the 78 play­ers who participated on Saturday but for the roughly 8,400 current students and the thousands of alumni spread across the country. 
"Notre Dame, whether you p"lay sports or not, can be a tremendous expPrience, and one that you'll always look back on," he said. "I still wish I was h<'re." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


<(irlt£ ~nl£ ~It 
Only one mile from Campus! 
East Bank Emporium Restaurdnt Building 121 S. Niles @ Jefferson, do\\mown South Bend 
(574) 232-8488 +Haurs: Mon.-Sat. 10-6 
Olivet 
continued from page 24 
stressed throughout the year as a key to success. 
"It's good to have another one like this," Palombo said. "It was really good to win 9-0. I dl'fi­nitely think we have some confi­dence back. and everyone is feel­


---------------,
---~--­

Tuesday, April 26, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
JUCO star Callovvay cotntnits to Indiana 
nationally in field goal per­
Associated Press 

centage (74.3). scoring and 
assists. 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind.-Earl Georgia Perimeter went 23­Calloway, a versalile junior 7 and finished second in the college guard from Georgia, conference and regional tour­signed to play with the Indiana nament.lle started two of' 28 Iloosinrs on Monday. games at New Mexico, where 
At 6-f'oot-3 and 175 pounds, he averaged 1.9 points. Calloway led Georgia Calloway is the third mem­l'erinwter College in scoring ber or this year's recruiting with 18 points per game. class, joining 6-10 center Ben 
lie also averaged 4.8 assists Allen and 6-5 guard Joey and 5 steals. lie is the l'irst Shaw. and he played at junior coll1~ge playt~r Davis has Westlake lligh School in signPd sine!' Atlanta ­taking over as the same
"He had a year of
coach in school for­
experience at the
SeptembPr mer lloosier 200 I and the Division !level and guard A . .l. first JUCO Moye grad­
another year to learn at 
player to join uated from. 
one ofthe top junior 
the Hoosiers Calloway since Lynn college programs in the scored Washington in more than
country."
I'J'JIJ .Calloway 1,300 points has also played in his prep orw season at Mike Davis career and New Mexico Indiana head coach was a first­undPr former team all-Illinois coach state selec­Lou llcnson and will have two tion as a senior when he led years of' eligibility remaining. Westlake to the Class 4A state 
"lie had a year of cxpnri­championship. Shaw, a 6-foot-Pnct~ at tiH~ Division I level and 6 shooting guard from anotlwr year to learn at one of' Phoenix, averaged 20 points, tlw top junior college pro­seven rebounds and six assists grams in tlw country, so we as a junior at Chandler lligh soc him as someone who can School. lie led Deer Valley stPp in and make an imnwdi­lligh School to a runner-up atP impart," Davis said in a finish in Class 5A this year. writtPn statenwnt. ".Joey can flat out shoot the 
Tlw AssoriatPd l'n•ss IPI't a basketball. and when you con­mPssagt• on Davis' rt•ll phon!' sidPr that he is 6-l'oot-6 and St'Pking COillllH'nl. probably still growing, he has 
Calloway rank('() lil'th in tho the potential to be a defen­nation in 3-point perccntagn sive stopper on the perime­
(44.7) and ninth in steals. lie . ter," Davis said in the state­was also ranked in tho top 50 ment. 
,.urtle Creek Apartments 
MAKE YOUR FINAL DECISION AN EASY ONE 

• 
Walk to campus 

• 
Hook-up with friends, just blocks from your favorite night spots 

• 
Bronze yourself at our pool 

• 
Keep your car clean in 


.866.395.4201 
www.aimco.com 171 0 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 
Bring this coupon in to receive 
1 MONTH FREE* 
• Restrictions Apply Expires 4/30/05 
#1 ND HOT SPOT' 
NFL 
Colts draft Michigan's Jackson 
secondary that has consistently been a primary concern for
Associated Press 
been the Colts' biggest trouble years. spot. The rebuilding project began 
INDIANAPOLIS The ''I'm a tough guy who can when team president Bill Polian Indianapolis Colts wanfed more cover and compete," Jackson arrived following the 1997 sea­punch from their secondary, and said after being drafted son. they're hoping Marlin Jackson Saturday. "I can make myself lie traded for Tyrone Poole and can fill that and my teammates better." signed free agent Jeff' Burris, job with a 
At Michigan, Jackson devel­both corncrbaeks. knockout oped into the Wolverines' top The next year Indianapolis perform­cornerback and challenged wide signed free agent safety Chad ance. receiver Braylon Edwards daily Cota, and in 2001, Polian 
Jackson, in practice. brought in cornerback Nick the Colts' Both were rewarde'd this Harper from the Canadian first-round weekend as first-round picks. Football League. p i c k ' The Colts took Jackson at No. 29, That trend has continued on describes while Edwards went to Cleveland draft weekends, wht~n the Colts
Jackson

himself as a at No.3. have used more than one-third physical Now the Colts hope .Jackson of their total picks -17 of' 49 ­player, a perfect fit for a defense can help improve their defensP. on defensive backs over tlw last trying to change its image and a Indianapolis' secondary has six years. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Stubblefield inks pro deal 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 

Purdue quarterback Kyle Orton throws against Notre Dame last season. Orton's teammate, wide receiver Taylor Stubblefield, signed with the Carolina Panthers Monday. 
lie wasn't invited to the 
Associated Press 
annual NFL scouting com­
bine in Indianapolis but 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -played in the East-West Purdue receiver Taylor Shrine Game and the Senior Stubblefield, a first-team Bowl. All-American who was Stubblefield, who picked bypassed in the NFL college Carolina over San Diego and draft, said he will sign with Tennessee, said he thought the Carolina Panthers as a he was not drafted because free agent. of his height. 
Stubblefield set an NCAA "That's what's held against record last season with 316 me, but my production is career receptions but was what's keeping me in this," not picked in the two-day the 6-foot receiver said. "I draft. Within five minutes can't complain." after the draft ended on Another player who was Sunday, however, he had not drafted but expects to agreed to sign with the sign as a free agent is full-Panthers. back Jon 
"There were "My agent narrowed it Goldsberry. 12 teams that who was
down to three or four and
called my used mainly agent and five I went with the best for blocking 
teams called situation asJar as money and on spe­
me, and they cial stnams
and opportunity. " 
wanted to at Purdue. strike a deal After the then and Taylor Stubblefield dral't, there," Goldsberry
Panthers wide receiver 
Stubblefield said he was said. "That contacted was good, but it was still by the Buffalo Bills, who frustrating. A lot of teams offered a larger signing said, 'Dang, we didn't think bonus than a number of you'd be available.' other teams that also were 
"My agent narrowed it interested in him. down to three or four, and I "The Bills made it real went with the best situation easy," Goldsberry said. "The as far as money and oppor­situation to compete was tunity," he told the better and they offered me (Lafayette) Journal and signil'icantly more money. It Courier. worked out that the Lord 
Stubblefield had 89 recep­took care of me today." tions for 1,095 yards and 16 The only Purdue playtH touchdowns last season and taken in the dral't was quar­was one of three finalists for terback Kyle Orton. who was the Biletnikoff Award, pre­selneted on the fourth round sented each year to thl' by Chicago, the I 06th pick nation's top collegP receiver. overall. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 26, 2005 
Lopez 
continued from page 24 
the stalemate in the second game. Trailing 7-4 with no outs in the bottom of the ninth, the green-clad ballplayers threat­ened with two runners on base. 
That's when junior shortstop Greg Lopez used a little help from Mother Nature. Lopez ­batting .350 and fielding nearly perfectly throughout the last 12 games for the Irish -kept his head down. shifted his weight and nailed the ball high into the air. 
Easy out. 
Sacrifice fly-so it seemed. 
But the ball kept going. 
What looked like a routine fly-out turned into a wind­aided. game-tying home run. Lopez poked the three-run clinger over the right field fence. and all the Villanova right-fielder could do was turn and watch as the ball sailed over the 331-foot fence. 
The homer was Lopez's sec­ond of the season. 
Revved up and primed for a series sweep, the Irish failed to get the next two batters on base. Junior centerfielder Alex Nettey then smashed a solid grounder to short, beat out the throw to first and advanced to second on an error. 
With the winning run 180 feet away, freshman third baseman Brett Lilley stepped to the plate. Lilley belted the first-pitch right to the right­fielder for the final out of the inning. 
Neither team scored in the 1Oth. Ace closer Ryan Doherty shut down the Wildcats in the top of the inning. The Wildcats had a runner on second base after a sacrifice bunt, but Doherty fanned outfielder James Dolbier with hard fast­ball and got a fly-out from infielder Mark Cardillo to get out of the jam. 

The Irish threatened again in the bottom half of the inning with the bases loaded and two outs, but junior pinch-hitter Matt Bransfield popped out to end the game. 
The Irish just couldn't get the key hits when they needed them. 
"Other than Gaston's and Lopez's hits, we really didn't get the big hits," coach Paul Mainieri said. 
On the day, Gaston and Lopez batted 4-8 and 4-7. respective­ly, in leading the Irish offense to a team series batting aver­age of .343 against a Wildcat staff that ranked third in the Big East with a 3.53 ERA and a . 241 opponent batting average. Gaston improved his batting average to .305, while Lopez upped his to .292. 

The Irish head into finals week with a 24-15-1 record, having won 10 out of their last 12 games. They are on an eight-game unbeaten streak. 
After taking the series open­er 5-2, Friday, winning the early-bird contest, Monday morning, and staging a valiant comeback effort to forge a tie in the final game, Monday afternoon, the Irish (24-15-1, 10-4-1 Big East) moved into sole possession of second place in the Big East standings ­behind only St. John's (26-12, 11-3). Boston College (26-14, 11-5) sits .012 percentage points behind Notre Dame. 
The Irish own the head-to­head advantage over BC because of a 2-1 series win at BC. And, just one game behind St. John's, the Irish still face the Red Storm in a pivotal three-game set beginning May 
7. Each game of the weekend series will be televised by ESPNU. ESPN 2 and CSTV respectively . 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
Ilartmann came up with thr big hit in that inning, knocking
Stenglein 
home a two-HBI single that continued from page 24 scored Nicole Wicks and Kellie Middleton. The Irish added four more second run was a bloop hit. runs in the third inning, includ­
"We didn't do a good job of ing Mallorie Lenn 's first homer hitting ourselves and taking of the season. a two-run shot. care of our opportunities to Seton Hall scored a run in the score runs." fourth to make the score 6-1. 
Oddly enough. Pierce also and threatened to get back in scored the first run of the the game the very next inning. game, and Djakalovic came up In the fifth inning, starting with the RBI, scor-pitcher Heather ing Pierce with a Booth started to
"We came back
sacrifice !1y in the falter for the fourth inning. The and did much Irish. with a walk ball was popped better [in game and two singles up into short cen­loading the bases.
two], but even then
terfield, but mis­Booth then communication by we could have walked in two the Irish outfield­played much straight runs and ers allowed PiercP was rPplact>d by
better." 
to Pasily score on Stf•nglrin. StP­the play. ngll'in allowPd a Notre Dame tied Deanna Gumpf bloop HBI to scurr the game in the Irish coach another Seton 
bottom of the sev­enth inning, with Megan Ciolli coming back from an 0-2 count to s!ngle up the middle with one out. Meghan Ruthrauff then came through with an RBI double to score Ciolli, and Ruthrauff moved up to third base on the throw home. 
But Notre Dame could not bring the winning run home, as Katie Laing flied out to short left field and Liz Hartmann struck out. With the win, Seton Hall increased its winning streak against Notre Dame to five games. 
The Pirates' streak would not continue, as Notre Dame teed off early against Meyer -who started both games Monday ­and knocked her out of the game in the second inning. 
IIall run. but kPpt the Pirates off the board the rest of the way. 
"We came back and did much better lin game two]. but even then we could have played much better," Gumpf said. "Heather IBoothl really had trouble finding the zone today. and that's usually not a prob­lem for her." 
Notre Dame remains at home to take on Northwestern (34­
10) in a single-game matchup today at 5 p.m. The 15th­ranked Wildcats -who have won 16 of their last 17 games -were scheduled to take on the Irish in a doubleheader, but the teams agreed to shorten the series to just one game. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 



Tuesday, April 26, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 

CROISSANTWORLD 
Ps.n. k.ili 'Y(';(~~r,~ '/OU. V.Jqv. id •yov. Ill;:~ 
-tc h t:Qt" <X 1Ol\', poi,.·d·lts ,s, (\Ad 1\'·l.f.H\ol"'~bl(. .S+ory O,'(.>cll.d VIJ~"t~r, \ V<l ~I".+ 
h~::__?_r-1-~-­
/ .. ...., 
.~ 
~J
/ ..··1t> ..,.... 
/ .. \ 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
C2005 Tribune Modla Services, Inc All Rights Reserved. 
TUPER 
I I I 

'r".llC:\ n~l.' r;r-r..
LAMTEL 
T; £:1? +~oR·,.;.~~­_;.iR~t~is-"{"f 6ir-!R.

I I I 
h. tw•N ~1'f.D. ·:·~~~--­
www JUmble com 
"­
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

(Answers tomorrow) VIGIL LYING CORPSE THWARTYesterday's I Jumbles 
Answer What a 7-toot center can be to a basketball team-"PIVOT-AL" 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  33  Boys' or girls'  64  Add kick to  
1  Frisks, with  room, in London  65  Flat rate?  
"down"  34  Attack by plane  66  Late actor Davis  
Muhammad's birthplace  37 38  Cleansed (of) First U.S. chief  67  Chapters of history  
10  Elisabeth of  justice  
14 1s 16 17 19 20 21  "Leaving Las Vegas" Ranch unit Pong maker Hoopster Malone "All I Wanna Do" singer. 1994 Toledo's lake Pekoe server Luggage attachment  40 41 43 44 45 46 48 5o  Hide-hair link No longer in style Press for payment Palm reader, e.g. Hither's partner Rigid bracelet Bill of fare Needle hole  DOWN Orzo, e.g. 2 Had a yen 3 Radial pattern 4 Eve's tempter Fountain offering 6 Catchall abbr. 1 Cougar or Lynx 8 Hags 9 Sony competitor  
23  Threw in  51  Gut course  10  Summer pest,  
24  French article  55  All riled up  informally  
26 27 29 30  Like woolen underwear? Salsa scooper-uppers Sun. delivery Yeats or Keats  57 56 59 62 63  Rich's partner Say "Uncle!" "Network" star On the ocean No longer in style  11 12 13 16  "The Bridge" poet Dickens's Heep Mournful poem Luke Skywalker's  35 36  Antagonist Flub  46  Guardian Angels toppers  53  New Mexico's state flower  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  22  mentor Like the air around Niagara Falls  38 39  Leigh of "Psycho" Month for many  47 48  Table extension New dad's handout  54 56  Cookout leftovers? facto  
24 25 28  "Looks like trouble!" Lunchtime, for many co'ngealment  42 44  Geminis Difficult spot Mariner's measure  49 52  Biscotti flavoring Salvage ship's equipment  57 60 61  For the asking Profs' helpers Yalie  
30  Country club  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with afigure credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
31 Mideast export 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 32 Singer with the crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 1988 #1 country 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzl!'l and more than 2,000hit "I'm Gonna past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).Get You" 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 34 Acted the fink solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name---------------------­
Address _______________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON TillS DAY: Jacob Underwood. 25; Renee Zcllwegcr. 36; Hank Azalia. 4 I; AI Pacino, 65 
lla(JIJY Hirthday: Keep things simple-and do what you know is right and you will do very well this year. Opportunities are headed your way, so stay organized, ready for a chance to make long overdue changes. II won'! necessarily be easy or magit';tlly fall into place. but preparation and the anility In respond on cue will he what leads to your success. Your numbers arc 3, 18, 21, 23, 35, 39 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You will have the uiscipline lo see mailers through to completion. Financial anu legal concems can be resolved. Making alleralions to your home will turn out splendidly if you uo some of the work yourself. ••• TAURUS (April 20-Ma)' 20): 1-'ocus on !he one you love or, if you arc single. i!'s !he perfect day to meet someone new and interesting. Your ability to lead a group or organize an event will bring you special ullenlion. Don't be fooled by false compliments 
GEMINI (May 21-.lunc 20): Your work should lake precedence toc.Jay. Someone may no! be playing fair. hut you should be able lo outmmwuver this person by slaying ,dcr1 Your ability In gel !he JOb done will put you 111 good slanJing ••• CANCER (June 21-.luly 221: Some rntcresling happl·rung' will lead to a lriend,hrp 
Do something nice for yourself. You may Ol' lempll'U to mvcsl your money 111 somclhrng. hut think twice .. someone is lryrng to fool you. ••••• 
LEO (July 2J-Aug. 22): Emotional problems may cloud your duy Don't hl' ton eager lo give in to someone who is trying to makl' you feel guilty. Argument' will no! solve the concems you have. •• 
VIRGO (Aug. 2J-Sctll. 22): With a positive allitude. you can face the changes rn your life enthusiastically. A chance to do something totally different from your everyday routine is apparent. Don'! hold back now or you'll miss out on u good lime. •••• 
LIBRA (Se111. 2J-Oct. 22): An unusual opportunity will allow you to slur! working on an interesting project. Your unique and sophisticated way of gelling things done will eam you respect and admiration. Dedication und dctemlinulion will bring !he highest retums. ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 2J-Nov. 21): l!'s up to you to make a move or u change. The first step is always the hardest. but once you gel moving, nothing will slop you. Today holds the chance lo turn something you love into a moneymaker. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): An idea that sounds marketable may be worth looking into. You can make a good investment as long as you stay with your budget. Make changes lo your home. ••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jnn. 19): Be lolally spontaneous today. Your new allilude wiJJ interest new friends or partners. Take advantage of the Jove cycle you are experiencing. •••• AQUA RillS (Jan. 20-l<'eb. 18): You may upset someone if you aren't careful. Don't share your lhougllls or lei anyone know too much about !he way you really feel. Someone may try to start an argument with you. Emmional discussions should be put off for !he lime being. •• PISCES (Feb. 19-Mnrch 20): This is the perfect day to plan a trip, start a new hohhy or do something thai will make you feel and look your best. Love, romance and commitment are all in the stars. ••••• 
Hirthday Bnby: You are creative. headstrong and very uffeclionale. You udupl well to change and often create il yourself. You ure aggressive hut in a quiet and unrque manner and. thus. gel your way. 
Eugl'llia'., Weh .1ile.1: Cl.l·tmwh•ir·e.r·om fin· fim, eugl'llialaJI.r·om fi~r r·tm/id<'lllial r·tm.l'llltatirm.v 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

.---------~~---------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, April 26, 2005 
page 24 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles dominate, cruise to 9-0 win 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
On the heols of two straight non-conference victori-es last week, Saint Mary's shut out Olivet College 9-0 Monday to net its first conference win since defeating Tri-State by the same score on April 5. 
The Belles dominated the Comets (9-10, 1-6 MlM), taking all but one set in every match. In an otherwise t1awless team performance, junior co-captain Kristen Palombo dropped her first set 6-1 before settling down and ripping oft' consecu­tive 6-1 victories to win the match. 
"The girl had no pace on the ball, and usually you don't get pushers in number one singles," Palombo said. "But after I lost that first set I told myself, 'You're not going to lose the match.' I was really happy I was able to comeback like that." 
For the second time in as many weeks, sophomore Armene Gavoor saw action, fill­ing in sophomore Mary Beth Pavela's No. 3 doubles slot due to Pavela's late classes. Gavoor worked with sophomore team­mate Tara O'Brien for the dou­bles victory, but Pavela made it back in time to play and win her singles match. 
After rescheduling the match twice already this year, the third time proved to be a charm for the Belles, who coach Dee Stevenson said always enjoy their matches with the Comets -a team against whom the Belles have not lost since Stevenson took over the Saint Mary's program in 2001. 
"They are a nice team," he said. "They have nice players, and a nice coach. It's always a pleasure to play them." 
The win improves the Belles overall record to 7-9. while keeping them in fifth place in the MIAA at 2-4. More impor­tant than the numbers, though, Palombo said the win was able to instill the players with confi­dence -a feeling she has 
see OLIVET/page 20 

FOOTBALL 
Guest coaches relish chance 
ND alums send messages to players that extend past football 
By ERIC RETTER 
News Writer 
It was a case study in the con­trast or quarterback behavior on Saturday -not so much on the field, where sophomore starter Brady Quinn was the star of the day -but in the press room, where Notre Dame football leg­ends reacted to crowds of a dif­ferent type. 
Joe Montana, known through­out his playing days for his suc­cess under pressure, seemed to somewhat shy away from the cameras and questions, while Joe Theismann, longtime TV commentator recently inducted into the college football Hall of Fame, appeared to thrive under the Saturday afternoon spot­light. 
The signal-calling tandem rep­resented just half of the Irish gridiron greats present, as for­mer defensive tackle Chris Zorich and I-leisman Award-win­ning receiver Tim Brown also serving as honorary coaches for the 76th annual Blue-Gold Game, which Montana and Zorich's Blue team won 28-6. 
BASEBALL 

Hitting the cut-off 
A gust of wind gives team a 7-7 tie in shortened second contest 
By TOM DORWART Sports Wri rer 
Despite clinching their series against the Villanova Wildcats Monday morning, the Irish have a sour taste in their mouths. 
Notre Dame won the opening game of the make-up double­header 9-4 -which started at 
9:30 in the morning. 
But, after an electric come­back, the second game ended in a 7-7. 10-inning tie because of the Big East's travel rule ­which states that no teams can play an inning after 4:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. 
In the first game, sophomore right-hander Dan Kapala pitched his second complete­game in a row. Kapala (3-1) earned his third win of the sea­son after allowing four runs on eight hits and four walks. Catcher Sean Gaston -batting 

< in the nine spot -blasted a three-run home run in the third-inning to give the Irish an early 8-3 lead. The round-trip­per was Gaston's first of the season. 
The Irish were lucky to get 
see LOPEZ/page 22 


NO SOFTBALL 

Notre Dame and Seton Hall split 
Stenglein's 19 Ks not enough as Irish lose by a tough run 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior SraffWrirer 

Steffany Stenglein showed again why she is a dominant pitcher in the Big East, but the offense couldn't back her up. 
Stenglein pitched nine in­nings and posted a school-re­cord 19 strikeouts while all­owing just three hits. but Notre Dame's offense couldn't sol-ve Seton Hall (28-13. 13-3) pitcher Megan Meyer as the Irish (35-10. 11-1) dropped game one of its doubleheader against the Pirates 2-1. The second-place Irish were able to salvage a split with the first-place Pirates. winning game two 11-4. 

Game one lived up to its billing as a matchup of the Big East's most dominant pitchers. with Meyer coming into the game with a 0. 95 EHA and a 20-4 record and Stenglein with a 1.14 EHA and a 16-4 mark. Neither team managed much offense against the starters, with the Irish collecting five hits off Meyer. 
The difference came in the top of the ninth inning, when D'Arcy Djakalovic got jammed on a pitch and popped the ball just behind first base for a bloop single that scored Katie Pierce from second. Meyer set down the Irish in the bottom of the ninth for the win. 
"It was unfortunate for Ste!Tany," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "She really pitched great; I don't think she could have pitched any better. The first run was a miscommunication. and the 
sec STENGLEIN/page 22 
I 

Joe Montana, center, poses with Anthony Fasano, left, and Chris Frome before Saturday's Blue-Gold Game. 
Facing Quinn on the opposing sideline -as well as the rest of the first team offense and the first-team defense-Theismann and Brown's Gold Team faced an uphill battle. After initially and jestingly describing the split as "cheating," Theismann admitted that it was the right move for the team. 
"The way Charlie [Weis] explained it, I thought it was a very good idea. You want to try and maintain as much continu­ity as you can when you're put­ting in a new system and every­thing is new for these guys." he said. 
see GREATS/page 20 

U) NCAA BASKETBAll 
NFL 
MlB 

NBA PLAYOffS 
MlB
NBA 
LLI

1m-
c.l Junior college transfer 
Purdue wide reciever 

The Cubs defeated the 
Suns confident 
Tracy McGrady's 
Oliver Perez leads 

z Earl Calloway will 
Taylor Stubblefield was 

Reds 10-8 Monday, and 
despite forward Shawn 
game-winner puts the 
Pirates to a 2-0 victory 

attend the University of 
signed by the Carolina 

the team learned that 
Marion's wrist injury. 
Rockets up 2-0 in their 
over Houston. 

Indiana next season. 
Panthers after not being 

shortstop Nomar 
series with the 
= c:ss 
drafted this weekend. 

Garciaparra will under-
Mavericks.
c < 

go surgery. 
!; 

page 21 
page 14
page 17
page 21 

page 15
page 18
U) 

... 



