
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OlUME 39: ISSUE 104 FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2005 . N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Community pays tribute to Malloy 
Leaders and children slzow their gratitude 
By El LEEN DUFFY A."i.11an1 N,·ws Edi10r 
Till' pPrsonal side of the high­~~st-ranking Notrn Damn admin­istrator -including his self­admiltnrl "tnndnru~y to ery at. !'hick fli!'ks," his taste for DPnny's food and his roennt. f"Onfusion OVPr l.(lll SeX of thn haby Ill' was baptizing -was n•vPaiPd Thursday night as thn Mirhiana an~a rPrognizml out­going University l'rPsidnnt 1-"lttllf•r l·:dward "Monk" Malloy. Malloy was horwrPCI for anum­hnr or rolt•s. hut. most. or all for IH•ing a good rwighbor to tlw SliiTOliiHiing ('Oilllllllnity. 
"Michiana salutns Monk," llt'ld at. tlw C1•ntury Center in downtown South BPrHI. bngan with a dinrlf'r -during which l"our toasts WPrn ol'l"ernd to Malloy-and Pndnd with a pro­gram l"naturing a vidno prnsnn­tal ion as wnll as talks by l"ornwr Indiana govPrnor Josnph KNnan and Malloy himsnlf. 
Malloy stPps down as presi­dPnl .JunP :m. 
Mark Hagan. presidnnt ol" tho St. .losPph County Chamhnr ol" CommPrre, toastPd Malloy first Thursday on lwhall" ol" tlw busi­rH•ss community. l·:agan 1~mpha­siwd tlw important role that Notro Damn plays in local com­morro, noting the nxpnnditurns of' its studnnts, faculty and visi­tors. According to Eagan, Malloy has playnd a big part in the rnlationship bntweon tho wrnmunity and thn University. 
"llis legacy to the business wmrnunity ... !will bPI his per­sonal commitment to cxtnnding tho Univnrsity out to the com­munity, and thn community to thn Univnrsity," Eagan said. "I oxtnnd my hcartl"nlt thanks and congratulations to him." 
Noxt, local youths from thn South Bnnd Contor for the llomnlnss, tho Hobinson Community Learning Cl'ntnr and t.hn Boys and Girls Clubs or St. .Josoph County -Llw throe 1·.haritins that hennnu~d from tho nv1~nt. at Malloy's wqunst­toastnd Malloy on behalf of the not-for-prol'it community. Saying that Malloy's "communi­ty and contribution would be too hard to mnasurn or list here tonight," they ofTnrod a creative poom for· him. 
Malloy "always wont thn extra miln." tho poem rnad. "Even (;od's finnst got w1~ary helping otlwrs along tho way ... our praynr for you, Father Malloy, is God's ovnr-rofrnshing touch." 
Thrnn priests r11presnnting t.ho Indiana Provineo of the Priosts of the lloly Cross tlwn 
see MALLOY/page 4 

Students head to NYC for Big East 
Loyal fans follow teams to tournament 
By PETER LEAIIY 
News Wrilcr 
As spring hn·ak looms dos­Pr and dosnr. many students arn looking l"orwHrti to a peri­od or rnst. and rnlaxation. This is l'ar from trun for mPmht~rs ol" l.lw Notrn Dame llll'n's and womnn's hasknt­hall tPillns. who will find high lnVI'IS ol" strnss and OXI~ite­llll'lll whill' tlw rnst or stu­dnnt.s Pnjoy a must rwtHind ol"f' snason. 
ThP rPason? Both toams arn hPadnd to tlw Big J•:ast Tournament. and studt•nts an• on llu·ir hPPis to watch l.IH• af"l.ion. 
Tho tournamt~nt is playnd in Madison Squarn (;arden for tlw mon and in thn llartl"ord Civic Cnnt.Pr for tlw wonH•n. ThP womon's tourna­rnPnt will run from Saturday, March !i to TuPsday, March X. Tho nH•n's tournanwnt will start on WNirH•sday, March 1) and t•nd on Saturday, Mareh 12. 
Anthony TravPI virn prnsi­
see NYC/page 4 
Above, Chris Quinn guards a Syracuse player. At right, fans cheer on the Irish at the Joyce Center.
•
PHOTOS BY RICHARD FRIEDMAN 


ND, SMC eager for vacation fro Ill classes 
Break plans vary fro11l service to sunbathing 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Writer 
With spring lmmk just a fnw ela.ssns away, sludnnts arn planning to drop thnir books and !wad to exotie vaeation spots, snrvien trips, athldic. nvents or nven hornn. 
Snnior David Purenll sehnd­ulnd lhn typical eollngn spring brnak with fun in tho sun. lit~ and his frinnds arn leaving tlw snow and travnling to l'unrto Vallarta, Mnxieo. 
"I'v11 never benn out of thn eountry," PurePII said. "So, I'm rnally nxeitnd to gnt out of South Bond and into some warm wnathnr." 
Sophomorn (;rng St.nwart will also spnnd his spring break in warm wnatlwr. Stewart is lwadnd to Florida with his father and brotlwr. lin nxpnets to spnnd most of his timn golfing in Naplns and Wost Palm. 
"I've bnnn eounting tho days for a few weeks now," Stnwart said. "Ev11ryorw nnnds a break from South Bend." 
Students' planned spring 
break advPnturPs do not. Pnd in North Anwri!'a. Many stu­dnnts madl' travel plans to I~ u ro JW, in r lu ding junior Daniel Klaul'l", who said lw will bn travPiing to Italy t.o visit a l'rinnd ovnrsnas. 
"I am ofT to rny motlwrland for brnak." hn said. 
Junior Tim Moon• and Sl'n­ior Hyan Mirwburg also will h1• traveling abroad. Moon~. who said hn was rwvnr intPrnstPd in traveling to tlw South. also said he is nxciled to go to London during hrnak. lin has trawh•d to l·:uropn bnl'orl' and said lw is nxt·itnd to rPturn without rommitnwnts to "soak up tl11~ cultun~." 
Minnburg also will lw sight­seeing in I.ondon to nnrit:h his mind whiln not. in rlass by vis­iting histork sites. 
"I really lovn castles." lw said: "I am goir~.g to sPe every onn Ill the an•a. 
WhiiP many studl'nt.s will lw traveling and relaxing. othnrs hav1~ sacrific1~d tlwir spring breaks to hnlp the community. Ovnr I!iO students plan to par­
sec BREAK/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, March 4, 2005 

INSIDE COLUMN 

What type are you? 

I am away from the computer right now. Unambiguous, straight­forward and direct. 
This was America Online's intent when creating the now-turned phe­nomenon of the 
Katie Perry 

away message. What was origi­nally invented to News serve the simple 
Production 

function of indi­
Editor 

cating when an AIM user was not physically at his or her comput­er has evolved into avenue of idio­syncratic expression, an instant indicator of personality and "type." 
Cons.ider for example, the l-am­far-too-busy-and-important-to-put­up-an-away-message AIM user. Seeking to demonstrate their lazy or preoccupied state of being, these users will "fade away" for tediously long amounts of time. But while they hide behind their "too cool for the computer" fa<;ade, we all know they are secretly in their dorm rooms, carefully evading the mental force field that prevents them from touching their mouse and/or keyboard. For days the standoff continues until a breaking point is reached. Furiously, they work down their buddy lists, checking away message after away message, profile after profile, before propagating the cycle and drifting off into a world of light grey once again. 
And let's not forget the compul­sive away message changer. Movie quotes, inside jokes, song lyrics­these are all fair game for this fanatical user. Living their lives in profound irony, these users waste hours at the computer relaying to people why they are not at the computer. Feeding the greatest fantasies of his necessary counter­part, the compulsive away message checker, the compulsive away mes­sage changer is a prolific artist, and the "create new away mes­sage" pop-up box is his never-end­ing canvas. Tragically, however, his works are ephemeral and quickly lost in the endless abyss of a buddy list. 
Finally, the most inventive of all users are those who pride them­selves in the unambiguous-but­sti11-ambiguous away messages. Clearly there is amotivation behind their hazy words, yet when confronted they will always take the path of denial. Through their sappy lyrics, commanding quota­tions and revealing emoticons, these users suffer from an inability to communicate by normal means, leaving their audience to guess, "Was that about me?" Of course the answer to this question is always the same. Yes, yes it was. 
So the next time you put up an away message, think long and hard and ask yourself: is this the type of person I want to be? The choice is yours. 
I am away from this column right now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correcc our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE ARE YOU GOING FOR SPRING BREAK? 



Delaware." the great state honey."ofOregon." 

RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer 

The cast members of "The Laramie Project" pose as reporters before a court trial scene. The play, by Moises Kaufman, focuses on the aftermath of the 1998 murder of Matthew Shepard. Thursday evening marked the play's final performance at Notre Dame. 


Cuban

said." 
refugees." 

IN BRIEF 
Frank Connolly, professor of mathematics, will be featured in the workshop "How to Prepare Undergraduates for Graduate Work and Graduate Fellowship Competitions" today from 3:30 p.m to 5 in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. The event is open to all Notre Dame faculty. 
The men's and women's track teams will compete in the Alex Wilson invitational from 7 p.m. io 9::10 in the Loftus Sports Center today. The meet will continue Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
The South Bend Chamber Singers will present a "Choral Chortles" concert Sunday in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. The doors open at 7 p.m. and the concert will begin at 7:30. Tickets are $12 for adults, $10 for senior citi­zens and $5 for students and are available through the Saint Mary's box office. 
Saint Mary's will host the WNIT Art Auction Wednesday, March 9 in the Noble Family Dining Hall. A preview of the art begins at 5:30 p.m., and the auction will kick off at 7. 
The 2004 Academy Award­winning film "Sideways" will be shown Thursday, March 10 at 7 p.m. and 10 in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center's Browning Cinema. The film will also be shown Friday March 11 and Saturday March 12 at 7 p.m. and 10. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 42 HIGH 35 LOW 24 LOW 22 
David Abram Mario Chiu de Ia
Chris Weinacht Niko Diacou Anna Rodriguez Scott DeeneyEsparza Fuente
junior

freshman sophomore freshman 
St. Edward's senior sophomore
Carroll Pasquerilla East Keough
Morrissey O'Neill 
"Going home to "Going to see "Arizona. " "I'm going to
"Headed home "Cabo San good ol' my cuz Zoe in save starving
to see my Lucas, 'nuff 
OFFBEAT Gigantic lobster dies 
PITTSBURGH -A gigan­tic lobster that may have sur­vived two world wars and Prohibition before being plucked from the ocean will live on -but only as a shell of its former self. 
The Pittsburgh Zoo & PPG Aquarium, where the 22­pound lobster named Bubba died Wednesday, plans to keep the carapace of the cor­pulent crustacean and use its remains to educate school children about lobsters, said Rachel Capp, a zoo spokes­woman. 
Some of Bubba's meat will be sent to labs for testing as officials try to determine why Bubba died, Capp said. 
Bubba spent a week at Wholey's fish market after he was pulled from the waters off Nantucket, Mass. He died a day after he was moved from the fish market to a quarantine area at the zoo's aquarium, where he was being checked to see if he was healthy enough to make a trip to an aquarium at a Ripley's Believe It or Not museum. 
Cat survives 10-mile trip atop car 
INKOM, Idaho -Torri Hutchinson's cat might just have one less life to live. Hutchison was driving along Interstate 15 one day recent­ly when a motorist kept try­ing to get her attention and pointing to the roof of her car. 

The man pulled up behind her. Hutchinson rolled down her window to hear the man frantically shouting, "Your cat! Your cat!" 
He reached for the roof of her car and handed the shocked Hutchinson her orange tabby. 
She had driven about 10 miles with the eat on top of the car, and didn't even notice the feline when she stopped for gas. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

....I 
< 
(.) 


0 

HIGH 38 HIGH 29 HIGH 38 HIGH 44
...I 
LOW 29 LOW 18 LOW 28 LOW 31 
Atlanta 60 I 44 Bos~on 35 I ~4 Chicago 40 1. 30 Denver 56 I 30 Houston 36 I 26 Los Angeles 66 1 52 Minneapolis 38124 New York 38 I 30 Ph1ladelph1a 40 I 28 Phoemx 73 I 54 Seattle 56 I 40 St. Louis 58 I 38 Tampa 68 1 52 Washington 44 132 
Friday, March 4, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Author, therapist tells students hol\1 to get 'unstuck' 
Kas/ shares 7 steps for self-enlightenment 
By LYNN SIKORA and LISA 
GALLAGHER 
News Wrilcrs 
Saint Mary's wnleomed award-winning author and nationally-rocognizod thera­pist Charlotto Kasl to Carroll Auditorium Thursday ovoning for a loeturo on hnr latest hook -"If the Buddha Got Stuck: A Handbook for Chango on a Spiritual Path." 
Kasl has written other works involving Buddhism, including "If the Buddha Marriod: Croating Enduring Helationships on a Spiritual Path" and "If the Buddha Dated: A Handbook for Finding Lovn on a Spiritual Path." 
"Tho Buddha can apply to anyonn regardless of n~ligion or culture -it is an attempt to roach truths to prevent suffering," sho said. 
Kasl's visit was sponsored by the Centor for Womnn's lntnrcultural Lnadnrship tCWII.), which lHH~ am n fa rn i I­
on getting "unstuck" by mak­ing better connections with other people through under­standing. She implemented Zen and Buddhist ideas in her lecture and read several exe1~rpts from her new book. 
The book suggnsls seven steps for getting "unstuck" ­notice whore you are stuck, show up. pay attention, live in reality, connnet with others, move from thought to action and let go. 
"Thn rn<tl purpose of life is to bn alivn and accept every part of life -the scuzzy and the sweet," Kasl said. 
Kasl encouraged the audi­ence to move past stereotypes and images of the self, and to find out who they really are by returning to a stage before thoughts. 
"It is bettnr to do something and fall on your facn than not to do it," she said. "Call a neighbor. Pick up the guitar in the back of your closet. Nnw learning makes you uncomfortable, but it gets better with practice." 
According to 
Kasl, the unwill­
iar with Kasl ingness to be mis­
"It is better to do 
through hnr erable for too long
something and fall
llXliHlSiVIl work is what separates with tho YWCA. on your face than the "unstuck" from Shn is rnsponsi­not to do it. " thn "stuck." h I o for Finding a positive rodnsigning tlw outlook and look­
Charlotte Kasl 

YWCA's ing at nverything 
(; h o 111 i e a I author, therapist from a wider per­Dopnndoney spoctive takes a Program, a 12-confidence the stop model for ovoreom ing "unstuck" possess, she said. addiction. Kasl stressed the impor­
Kasl's mmlol. with 16 steps, tance of laking action and foeusos on ompownrmont for showing up. Trying new wonwn. things sparks bodily energy 
Kasl said hor book centers which should be paid atten-

KELLY HIGGINSfl'he Observer 

Author and therapist Charlotte Kasl speaks in Carroll Auditorium Thursday evening. Kasl Is best known for her redesign of the 12-step addiction program, changing It to focus on empowering women. 
tion to, she said. important local connection. "Show up -now. It's the "It is through the underly-
only time to do it," she said. "It doesn't get easier "Show up -now. 
tomorrow." It's the only time to Kasl also 
do it. It doesn't get 
advised the audi­
ence to "get out easier tomorrow. " of the box" and to "listen to your 
Charlotte Kasl 
truth." 
author, therapist 
"Without sound­ing like a Nike ad 
ing values of social justiee and the healing of the whole person that you ean see the link between her work as a thnra­pist and her life as a spiritual scnker," Bazata said. 

-just do it. Just go for it, A portion of the book's pro­fear and all," she said. ceeds will go toward the 
According to CWIL director YWCA of St. Joseph County, of community connections which has recently Bonnie Bazata, Kasl is an redesigned their chnrnieal 
dependency program using Kasl's model and othnr holis­tic approaehns. Kasl said she is passionate about raising funds for wornnn's help. 
"The only way to appreciate your privilngns is to pass it on," she said. " ... it is impor­tant to get unstuck in commu­nities because lhny provide a safety net. If wn lnt go of thn separatennss we can l'ind unity." 
Contact Lynn Sikora at siko0495@saintmarys.edu and Lisa Gallagher at lgallaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Students learn, serve in senlinars over break 


Notre Dame Disability Awareness Month 
March 2005 

Sujeet Desai will be playing the violin, c!arinet and piano. He graduated from the Berkshire Music Academy and was born with Down syndrome. ?p.m. Washington Hall, Free Admission 
Saturday, 3/19 Come to the Best Buddies Friendship Games and interact with children and adults with special needs. 12 noon-2p.m. Logan Center Gym 
Monday, 3/21 Head Football Coach Charlie Weis, 9p.m. DeBartolo 102 Coach Weis will be speaking about disability awareness. 
Tuesday, 3/29 Students with Djsabilities Discussion, 8p.m. Legends 
www.nd.edu/-bbuddies 


Special to the Observer 
More than 220 Notre Dame students will spnnd their spring break in impoverished areas of Appalachia, alongside migrant workers in Florida tomato fields and in the California dnsnrt, speaking with social activists and policymakers in New York and Washington and as guests of developmentally disabled pnople in Canada. 
The students are enrolled in the Spring Break Seminars, one­credit courses administnred by the faculty and staff of Notrn Dame's Center for Social Concerns in cooperation with other academic departmnnts of the University and often with assistance from Notrn Damn J\lumni Association as wnll. 
Before their departure from Notrn Dame's campus Saturday and Sunday, participating stu­denl<; will have attnndnd orienta­tion elasses and road Catholic social teachings relevant to tlw sitos and eommunities tlwy will visit. 
The largest of thn seminars, on Appalachia, will snnd 15(, stu­dP.nts to 15 sites in the rngion. In addition to assisting in various community service projnets. thn students will work and rn1~rnatn with local rnsidents and discuss with thnm sw:h matlnrs as nnvi­ronmnntal problems, nd ucation and the region's neonomy. 
The Migrant Snminar will snnd 12 students to Imnwkalen. Fla.. to nxaminn social issuns afl'ncting migrant worknrs in tlw arna. The studnnts will work in thn fields with migrant workers, livn with migrant familins, and lwar from a varinty of agency and politieallnadnrs. 
.--..~ ~~ 
Welcome to Paradise! 
• 
Pre-leasing for the 2oos-:wo6 school year 

• 
Studios and 1 and 2 bedroom apartments (574)272-8124 


ask Sherry for detai Is www.aimco.com 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Friday, March 4, 2005 
and his impact on the University person capacity, Malloy asked including a mix-up at a recent the conductor of the New York and surrounding community. local leaders for their thoughts; baptism and his inability to swim Philharmonic Orchestra, which
Malloy 

Malloy grew up in Washington, Kernan, in turn, asked his ortho­-although it was a requirement recently played on campus. He continued from page 1 D.C., where a childhood friend pedic surgeon. According to when he graduated from Notre was impressed by the conductor nicknamed him "Monk." Although Kernan, the doctor had an inter­Dame. -who did not have a script and 
offered a tribute via video, his family was not wealthy, he was esting answer: "That's 20,000 After proclaiming his love for did not play an instrument -and including Unive'rsity President able to attend Notre Dame more people to break a bone over the University (which stems from his ability to bring together a Emeritus Father Theodore because of his basketball skills. the weekend!" "the time I set foot on campus"), group of talented individuals from Hesburgh. Hesburgh called Malloy After graduating in 1963, Malloy The impact, though, has been Malloy turned to the issue of the various backgrounds. a "man of high intelligence ... not was ordained a priest in 1970, more than "dollars and cents," surrounding community. ''I'm surrounded by wonderful, given to shows of power or pride." began teaching at Notre Dame Kernan said. According to Malloy, during his good, generous people who work 
"He's accomplished many good and was elected president in "Every day, Monk time as a student, beyond the call of duty -that's things in a modest, intelligent and 1986. The various speakers in the has reached out to the city was off-lim­my experience with the University
"He's accomplished 
at times even self-effacing way," video credited Malloy for his many and reached into its. Because of his and the surrounding area," he Hesburgh said. ''I'd like to offer a improvements to the University, our community," he many good things love for cities, he said. word of thanks [to him] for guid­his humility and his ability to han­said. "... The in a modest, said, as president Event co-chair and St. Joseph's ing this University with distinction dle crises like Sept. 11. engagement he wanted support Bank president John Rosenthal
intelligent and at 
over the years and through many Kernan then took the podium between the com­for the community offered Malloy three gifts at the
times even self­
crises." and delivered a keynote address, munity and Notre to be "one of the conclusion of his speech. 
The fourth and final dinner focusing on the inevitable affilia­Dame has been a effacing way. " hallmarks of this The first was a collection of let­toast, representing the city and tion between a university and its model for time of service." ters written to Malloy by area indi­county gover.nments from surrounding community and the America." Malloy discussed viduals; the second -in anticipa­
Father Theodore 
Michiana, came from South Bend positive impact that Malloy has Finally, Malloy the establishment tion of his upcoming sabbatical -

Hesburgh
Mayor Stephen Leucke. He began had on the Notre Dame-South himself walked of the South Bend a travel voucher for $10,000. The by recalling a lunch he shared Bend relationship. onstage to speak, University President Center for the third gift was, in actuality, a gift with Malloy at the Morris Inn, · Living "a half a block from cam­receiving a stand­Emeritus Homeless, the from Malloy to the community. where Malloy explained some of pus," Kernan said that he has had ing ovation. northeast neigh-The three charities Malloy had his vision for the future of the opportunity "to reflect on what Like Kernan, borhood problems designated to receive the proceeds University-South Bend community an extraordin"ary place" Notre Malloy quoted a great historical and the establishment of the of the event will each receive a relations. Leucke said he was Dame is. Like other speakers, he figure to begin his speech. Robinson Community Learning check for $12,500, making a reminded of an Eleanor Roosevelt stressed the value of the "I believe it was Winston Center. He also talked about his grand total of $37, 500, Rosenthal quote: "The future belongs to University to local commerce. Churchill, on hearing that some­involvement with the Boys and said. He also said this donation those who believe in the beauty of "If Notre Dame wanted to one was modest, who said, Girls Clubs, which began after was just a "down payment" until their dreams." move," he joked, "can you imagine 'He/She has much to be modest Hesburgh's advice to "be your own the event's expenditures are 
"The community has benefited where the bidding would start?" about,"' Malloy said, sparking a person" and "get involved with organized, and the final amount from your dreams, Father Malloy," He offered an anecdote to ripple of laughter among the things that interest you" as Notre could total over $50,000. he said. emphasize the value. When Notre crowd. "I recognize that I do, too." Dame's president. 
Following dinner, a video was Dame was looking to expand its Malloy then offered a list of Malloy analogized his "perfect Contact Eileen Duffy shown detailing the life of Malloy stadium from 60,000-to 80,000-things he has to be modest about, image of a University president" to eduffy 1 @nd.edu 
NYC 
continued from page 1 
dent of business operations Pat Walsh has been to the men's tournament the past five years. However, he said efforts to start a school-organized stu­dent trip has not gained enough support. 
Walsh said the draw to the tournament is mostly to stu­dents and fans local to the respective locations. 
"We've tried a couple things over the years," he said. "It seems not to catch with a national fan base like football." 
Walsh pointed to the tourna­ment scheduling as a major deterrent for students. Because there is a possibility that the team will get knocked out on the first day, he said it does not make sense financially for stu­dents and fans that live outside of the area to make the trip to the tournament. 
But for teams closer to the tournament area -like Connecticut, Pittsburgh, Rutgers and Syracuse -the location provides an opportuni­ty to make the tournament sites more like home games than neutral ones. This creates a more hostile environment for other teams, such as Notre Dame. 

"It's a definite disadvantage," Walsh said. 
Keough sophomore Tim Wyne shares Walsh's feelings. Wyne lives in New Jersey and went to the men's tournament last year. He says the fan bases the local teams draw are intimidating. 
"UConn is the worst -they do the UConn chant," he said. "I think it hurts. It's not like a road game but more than a neutral site [for teams with large fan bases]." 
Wyne, who obtained tickets from his father, an ND alum, said Notre Dame fans still make their presence felt at the tournament. 
"We're probably in the mid­dle," he said. "Nowhere near as loud as the UConn or Pitt fans." 
Walsh said that ND alumni and fans from the northeast are the reason there has been a significant showing at the men's tournament in the past. 
"It seems like the big contin­gent is local," he said. 
Brian Lee, a freshman from Keenan who lives in Beckonridge, N.J., said he noticed the local fan base when he went to the Navy football game earlier this year. He said about five Notre Dame fans were there for every one Navy fan. He explained Notre Dame has a tremendous appeal even to people without University ties. 
"They call [local fans] the subway alumni," Lee said. 
For this reason, Stanford freshman Alex Wulz said he thinks Notre Dame will not be at a total disadvantage at either the men's or women's tournament. He noted ·the Notre Dame fan base is not lim­ited to any area of the country, but fans from all over the world love to cheer for the Irish. 
"The local schools are defi­nitely going to have the home crowd advantage, but Notre Dame will have the Notre Dame advantage," he said. 
Lee echoed Wulz's opinion. 
"The power of the ND fan base is so much greater than any other school," he said. 
Unlike Wulz, who bought his tickets through Ticketmaster, Lee bought his tickets to the men's tournament through the University. He paid $40 for four rounds. If the men are knocked out in the first round -their first game -Notre Dame refunds students for the final three rounds. 

Wulz said he would have bought his tickets through the school as well, but they are only available to students. 
Unlike Wyne, Lee and Walsh, Wulz is planning on attending the women's tournament, as well. 
"I love the women's team, and I think our women have a shot at winning," he said. 
The women have a bye in the first round and play either West Virginia or Pittsburgh at 6 
p.m. Sunday. The future is not so certain for the men. Their seeding depends on their final regular season game, set to tip off at 2 p.m. Saturday. 
Unfortunately, a majority of students will not get to see the Irish battle Pitt for seeding in the tournament. With a win, the Irish would earn the fifth seed in the tournament and a first round bye. If they lose, the Irish get the sixth seed and will play on the first day of the tournament. This uncertainty is another reason Walsh said it is hard for non-local students to attend the tournaments. 
However, Walsh also said the success of both the men's and women's teams in recent years has caused the fan base to grow. 
"I think the general student interest in basketball has picked up in the last four years," he said. 
A sign of the basketball pro­gram's recent success can be seen in the quality of oppo­nents that line both teams' schedules, Walsh said. 
"Seeing the schedule the Big East assigns you every year is a great testament to the pro­grams because they want us on national television," he said. 
Although this prominence may not translate into student attendance at the tournaments, Walsh said he recommends the trip. 
"It's a basketball junkie's dream," he said. 
Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy 1 @nd.edu. 



Break 
continued from page 1 
ticipate in the Appalachia service learning project. 
Junior Justin Doyle is one of those students. He said the trip provides students with the opportunity to practice the mis­sion of Father Edward Sorin ­the school's founder -to make Notre Dame a major source of service in the country. 
"It is important to show mar­ginalized and disadvantaged groups in our society that we care through our presence," Doyle said. 
Athletic teams will also take advantage of the break to get a head start for the spring sports seasons. Ben Crouse, a junior soccer player, said while his team is headed to Florida, they will be training intensely. 
"It is not going to be a vaca­tion," he said. "It is going to be a business trip." 

During the week, the team will compete against the U-17 national team and Virginia. 
As some students are heading away from Notre Dame to vari­ous vacation spots, others have chosen to work and enjoy the simple comforts of home. 
Junior Allison Livingston will not get much of a break next week as she travels home to Colorado Springs, Colo. to study for the MCATs. Livingston said she is not disappointed not to travel, as she is excited to spend time with her family and catch up on sleep. Many other students plan to stay on cam­pus to study for this medical school entrance examination, which will take place after break in April. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 


Yale set to be more affordable 
Associated Press 

NEW I-lAVEN Yale University increased its fman­cial aid for lower-income fami­lies Thursday, the latest move by the Ivy League to attract students who had seen the schools as out of their price range. 
Beginning next year, families making less than $45,000 will no longer have to pay tuition for their children, and those earning between $45,000 and $60,000 will see their required contributions drop an average of 50 percent, Yale said. 
"The general message is that Ivy League schools are afford­able," Yale President Richard Levin said. "This is a dream that can be achieved." 
Levin said many qualified students don't bother applying to Yale because they figure their parents can't foot the tuition of about $41,000 a year, including room, board and other fees. But about 40 per­cent of undergraduates receive financial aid, with an average award this year of $22,000. 
The average family earning less than $60,000 will save about $2,700 under the new plan, the university said. It estimated the changes will cost about $3 million, and will be paid for by using interest from the school's $12.7 billion endowment and with money saved on operating expenses. 
Yale's announcement follows similar moves at other Ivy League schools, which have pushed in recent years not just to make tuition affordable to more students, but also to remake their images. Last year Harvard said families making less than $40,000 do not have to pay tuition. 
"Top-flight schools are all looking at what kind of barri­ers there are to low-income students," said Robin Moscato, senior assistant admissions director at Princeton, which replaced student loans with grants and made other finan­cial aid changes in recent years. 
Levin said the college plans to promote its new financial aid plan at high schools around the country. 
Last year more than 550 families of Yale students earned less than $60,000 a year, and more than 300 of those families earned less than $40,000, the university said. About 5,200 students were enrolled at Yale this fall. 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 4, 200') COMPILED fROM T!JE OBSERVER'S WfRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bombers target Iraqi police 
Bt\C;III>t\1>. Iraq-Car hornbs killnd six poli!'Pntnn and woundml 15 in nnw attaeks on Iraq's spcurily serviens Thursday as politi­cal factions wrangiPd ovnr putting tognllwr a goVIH'IllllnnL 
Tlw ShiilP Muslim-dominalod Unitml Iraqi t\lliancl' and a Kurdish coalition. whirh PnH•rw•d from tlw .Jan. 30 nh1elions with thn two higgnst hi1H~ks of snat.s in thn National t\ssnmhly, mado littln lwadway in thnir talks on c·omhining forrPs to snlnc:t thn lnadnrs of tlw IWW goVIH'nllHH11.. 
Mnanwhiln. int11rim l'rimn Minislnr t\yad t\llawi. whosn party finish1~d third, dl'nind rumors lw had giviHl up his nl'forl to st.ileh togPllwr support from othnr groups, includ­ing thn Kurds, that wotrld allow him to rnmain primP minislPr. 
hH·ming Iraq's lirst dnmoeratieally nleetnd govnrnmPnl is a kny stPp in thn U.S. plan for stabilizing tlw country, and insurgents havn h1wn striking at Iraqi poliee and military for-cns snnking to urHinrmino thn nl'fort. 
Saudi officials demand withdrawal 
Ct\IIW, l·:gypt -Saudi officials told Syrian l'rnsidnnt Basilar t\ssad on Thursday that lw must soon bngin fully withdrawing troops from l.nbanon or facn strains in Saudi-Syrian tins, an official said. t\ssad promisnd only to study tlw idoa of a parlial withdrawal by later this month. 
Tho kingdom took a tough linn as t\ssad mol with llw Saudi loader, Crown Prince Abdullah, and olhnr oflkials in Hiyadh. 
Thn strong language pointed to increas­ing impatinn1~e among t\rab leaders with Damascus' resislanco to calling a quick pullout. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Blake lawyer ridicules prosecution 
LOS t\N(;I\LES -Hobert Blake's lawyer told jurors Thursday it is ridiculous to think the actor would have killed his wife in his own neighborhood while she waited in a car parkml undor a strePt light. 
''I'm going to kill her right by a rnslaurant that l'vn bonn going to for 30 years," de((msn attornny M. Gmald Sehwartzbaeh said during closing argunwnts, mocking the allngations against his dinnl. 
Ih1 also point11d out that the weapon usnd to kill Bonny l.n11 Baklny was a flO-year-old hand­gun that rontainnd only throe rounds of obso­lote ammunition. Only two of the bullets wern usnd, and Baklny was still breathing when paranwdics arrived. 
Sehwartzhach said Blakn wouldn't ernale such an nlahoratn plot, then leavn his wife alive to possibly idnnlil'y him. 

GOP struggles on Social Security 
Wt\SIIINGI'ON -Hnpublieans struggled to sort out Social Security disputes among tlwmsnlves Thursday as Democrats bought radio ads to attack Prnsident Bush and GOP allins in Congress along thn next leg of his road trip j>itching his overhaul. 
t\l tlw Capitol, Snnate Majority Leader Bill Frisl said Congrnss must confront Soeial Sncurity's probl1nns this ynar, dialing back his comnHmts of two days narlier that action might havn to wait-a turnabout l>mnocrats wast11d lil.tl11 limo in mocking. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana man indicted as spy 
INI>lt\Nt\I'OI.IS -t\ federal grand jury has indidnd an Indiana man on charges he tried to snll namns of U.S. operativns in Iraq to Saddam Hussein's govnrnnwnt bnforn the U.S. invasion. 
Shaaban llaliz t\hmad t\li Shaaban, 52, was dmrg11d with agroPing to ad as a forni~-,rn agent for Iraq and with immigration violations. fndnr­al prosneutors said Thursday following Shaaban's arTI'Sl. Shaaban traveled in latn 2002 from Chicago to Baghdad, wlwrn ho agrPed to sPII tlw namns of U.S. agnnts to Saddam's gowrnnwnt.. 
GAZA STRIP 

Youth lost in Mideast violence 
Associated Press count: 514 Palestinians a"l1d 97 Israelis aged 16 or under killed 
Associated Press 

BElT Lt\IIIYt\ -With 
tho dnafnning nxplosion of 
a tank shell in a strawbnr­
ry patch, Maryam and 
Kamol Ghabnn, a 
l'alnstinian farming couple, 
lost thrnn of th11ir sons, a 
grandson, and two 
nnphnws -all children 
and young teens. 

Israeli soldinrs had aimed at a Palestinian roekel squad, but witnnss­ns say thQ militants worn gone by the time the shell hit the youngstnrs, aged 1 0 to 16, who had bncn help­ing with the strawberry harvest. 
"Sadnnss will nevnr leave our hearts," said the Ghabens' oldest son, Ghassan, 35. who was lirst on the scene and found his I0-year-old boy Hajeh among the dead. 
About 65 miles away, in .Jerusalem, t\rnold Hoth wrestles with the death of his 15-year-old daughter Maika, killed by a suicide bomber in a Sbarro pizza parlor, and tries to help his surviving six children through the trauma. 
"The children have a deep sadness, all of them," he said. 
Tho Ghaben boys were killed in the Gaza Strip in .January, shortly before Israel and the Palestinians declared a truce. Maika up 15 percent of the more count because in both soci­Israeli or Palestinian Hoth was one of seven chil­than 3,460 lives lost on the eties 16 is largely consid­cannot be fully ascer­dren, aged 2 to 16, killed in Palestinian side. Children ered the last year of child­tained. Still in dispute is the August 2001 bombing. make up just under 10 per­hood. 12-year-old Mohammed 
They arc among 514 cent of the more than Working from interviews Aldura, caught on r.amera Palestinians and 97 Israelis 1,025 killed on the Israeli with hospital oflidals, vie­as he died in crossl'ire, aged 16 and under who side. tim support groups, human making him a symbol to have been killed in the The number of rights monitors and its own the t\rab world. The lsra111i bloody 4 1/2 years since Palestinian child fatalities daily cow~rage of the light­army l'irst said its l'ir11 September 2000, according has remained steady -ing, the Associated Press "apparnntly" killed him, to an t\ssoeiated Pross 121 in the first 12 months found that about one-third latnr said Palnstinians may count. of the uprising that began of the Palestinian young­have !ired tho fatal shots. 
These young lives -cut at the end of September sters were killed by Israeli Thn Palestinians have short by Israeli army rire 2000, 131 in the second lire in stone-throwing inci­blamed lsranli gunfire, a or Palestinian suicide 12-month period, 110 in dents, and the others by elaim baeknd by thn TV bombings and shootings -the third, 116 in the fourth, stray bullets at homos, on crnw at thn semw. are as strong a force as and 36 in the four months their way to and from Virtually all the lsranli any driving public opinion of this tifth uprising year. school, while hanging children worn killnd in on both sides to demand an The age of majority is 18 around gunmen, or in Palnstinian bombings and end to tho nightmare. in both Israel and the Israeli air strikes against shootings, induding 72 in 
According t~ the Palestinian areas. The militants. lsnwl and 25 in tho Wnst Associated Press count, the Associated Press chose age In a small number of Bank and Gaza, said the Palestinian childrnn make 16 as the cutoff for its eases, the soureo of lire -t\ssodat11d Prnss' count. 

Pastor leads pollee to BTK suspect 
Associated Press 

WICIIITt\, Kan. -Dennis Hader eamc to his pastor in .January with a lloppy disk, saying he had the agenda of a church council meeting and nnedfld to run ofT copies on a printer. The pastor obliged. 
The head of Christ Lutheran Church insortnd the disk into a com­puter, thinking it was nothing out of the ordinary. But that routine act may have eraeked tho BTK serial killer ease. 
Last Friday, four law enforcement officers came to Pastor Michael r.tark's church with a snarch warrant and asked who had access to the computer. t\n electronic imprint in a disk sont to a Wiehita TV station by the BTK killer had be11n traced to the church. 
The of'ficcrs, speaking softly but firmly, then said Hader had been arrested as the suspectnd BTK killer. 
The pastor was stunned. Thren tim(~s. he asked them to repeat it. "The world changed that very moment," Clark would later tnll his eongrngation. 
t\ computf1r disk appears to bn among the key pinces of evidnnce that led policn to Ha:der, the 59-year­old church council prnsident and for­mer Cub Scout lead11r who was charged Tunsday with I 0 murdnrs in the BTK killings that tnrroriz11d this city ovnr thren dncadns. 
Though police have been tightlipped about why they believe Hadnr is the BTK killnr, sonw dntails of the evidence against him have emerged. t\mong thnm: the disk, DNt\ samples, surveillance and mocking letters with eluns and grisly sou­venirs. 
"This was a polk11 casn that eov­nrnd thn span of' t.hrno doeadns, and I don't think thorn's any onn thing that would have crack1Hl tlw caso," said IUehard LaMunyon, a fornwr Wkhita polkn chin!' who ran thn dPpartnwnl during most of thn BTK killings. 
r------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, March 4, 2005
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
SPAIN 

Madrid bombers had plotted 111ore attacks 
Revelation comes as anniversary approaches 
Associated Press 
MADHID -Islamic mili­tants blamed for last year's commuter train bombings in Madrid were plotting more bloodshed -a string of sui­cide attacks in the months after the massacre, Spain's counterterrorism director told The Associated Press on Thursday. 
The revelation adds a chilling what-if element to Spain's national trauma as it prepares to mark the anniversary of the March 11 bombings, the country's worst-ever terrorist attack. 
Fernando Heinares, the counterterrorism chief, said the militants most likely to have carried out such sui­cide attacks in Spain ­which would have been the first ever in Western Europe were seven men who blew themselves up April 3 as special forces moved in to arrest them. 
"According to data collect­ed so far, it can be deduced that those terrorists were probably planning suicide attacks in the months or weeks after" the train bomb­ings, which killed 191 people and wounded more than 1 ,500, Reinares told AP. 
Reinares said the informa­tion suggested "their terror­ist campaign was not going to end on March 11, but was going to go on and include suicide attacks at a later stage. 
The seven men who died in Leganes, a town outside Madrid, included suspected ringleaders of the train strikes, which were claimed in videotapes by militants who said they acted on behalf of al-Qaida in revenge for Spain's troop presence in Iraq. 
At least five men are fugi­tives in the case, including one who escaped from the apartment in Leganes. Heinares gave no indication these men are considered suicide-attack risks. 
On March 18, a group named for Abu Hafs ai-Masri -a former top lieutenant of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden -said it was calling a truce in Spain to give the newly elected Socialist gov­ernment time to withdraw the Spanish troops from Iraq. A video found in the rubble of the Leganes apart­ment a week after the collec­tive suicide also gave Spain a deadline to withdraw from Iraq or face more violence. 

These statements suggest­ed that such a withdrawal ­which took place in May ­would be enough to remove Spain from al-Qaida's cross­hairs. 
But Heinares said the plans for later suicide attacks showed that the Madrid train bombers were probably not interested in bringing down the conserva­tive government then in power, which had supported the U.S.-led Iraq war, but rather wanted to go on caus­ing bloodshed. 
Former Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar and his party have insisted the bombing -three days before a general election ­was tantamount to a surgical strike against his govern­ment, which had defied pub­lic opinion by supporting the Iraq war and sending 1,300 peacekeepers after President Bush declared an end to major fighting. 
The Socialists, who had opposed the war, won elec­tion and took power in April. They quickly brought troops home but insisted it was to keep a campaign pledge, not to cave in to terrorists. 
Reinares said information about the Madrid bombers' suicide attack plans was fea­tured in a new book by a Spanish investigative reporter, but the information wasn't carried in the main­stream Spanish media. 
Heinares' comments came a day after U.S. and Spanish authorities confirmed that a crude sketch of Grand Central Terminal in New York City -which was trau­matized by the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks -was found at the home of a sus­pect in the Madrid train bombings. 
Jackson faces tnore allegations 
Prosecution drills accuser's older sister 
Associated Press 
SANTA MAHIA, Calif. -The teenage sister of Michael Jackson's accuser told jurors Thursday about a series of unusual events that unfolded around the time of the alleged abuse, including a sudden trip 
in  which  the  family  was  
whisked away to Miami  on  a  
private jet.  

The testimony was elicited to support allegations that the singer conspired to hold the accuser's family captive to get them to rebut a February 2003 documentary in which Jackson said he allowed boys to sleep in his bed. The Miami trip occurred as the program was about to air. 
The dark-haired, round­faced witness also told the jury that on the flight back from Miami, Jackson shared a soda can with her brother, and also gave him· a watch and a jacket decorated with sparkles. 
Prosecutors allege that the boy, a cancer survivor, was molested twice by Jackson 
after the program aired. They contend Jaekson gave the boy wine in the soda can and the gifts as bribes to keep quiet about the alcohol. 
The 18-year-old college freshman avoided eye contaet with Jackson during most of her testimony as she testified about the family's encounters with him, which began during a celebrity-filled odyssey after her brother was diagnosed with cancer. The family was introduced to such stars as actor Chris Tucker and NBA star Kobe Bryant. 
The defense has portrayed the family as being motivated by greed in its pursuit of celebrities. 
Under questioning by District Attorney Tom Sneddon, the girl told jurors about strange events that happened after the documen­tary by British journalist Martin Bashir was taped. 
The girl said she received an urgent call from her moth­er, who told her to go to their East Los Angeles apartment where she was met by an aide to Tucker. 
She said they were taken to Tucker's house, driven to an airport and flown to Miami on a private jet. 
When they arrived at the resort in Miami, Jackson was waiting and in his suite they met a large group of people, she said. 
The witness said that her brother quickly received spe­cial attention from Jackson, who pulled him aside and closed the door to his room. 
She said the two remained in there about 15 to 30 min­utes and similar private visits occurred at least three more times during their stay. 
When her brother came out, she said, "He was very hyper, running around, very talka­tive, playful." 
Jackson instructed the fami­ly not to watch the Bashir documentary that night. "He was upset about it, didn't want us to see it," she said. 
Back at Neverland, she said, the family had a conversation with a Jackson adviser in which he urged her and her family to take part in a rebut­tal video and gave them a script. 
She said they were later instructed by Wiesner to "say nice things about Mr. Jackson and not talk about what goes on at the ranch." 

AP 
Michael Jackson acknowledges fans as he walks out of court following the opening day of his child molestation trial at Santa Barbara County Superior Court Monday. 
Hacker accesses Harvard admissions records 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -A computer hacker gained access to inter­nal admissions records at Harvard, Stanford and other top business 'schools, then helped applicants log on and learn their fate weeks ahead of schedule, officials said Thursday. 
Few of the people who fol­lowed the hacker's directions managed to find out if their applications have been accepted, according to school officials. But many of them eould end up getting rejected now that the schools are checking to see who tried to exploit the security breach. 
"Haeking into a system in this manner is unethical and also contrary to the behavior we expect of leaders we aspire to develop," said Steve Nelson, executive director of the MBA program at Harvard Business School. 
The unidentified hacker tapped into Business Week's online forum early Wednesday and posted instruction on how applicants could log onto the schools' Web sites to check their admission status. 
Dozens of business schools, including those at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford, Duke, Carnegie Mellon and Dartmouth, were affected by the breach, with their Web sites vulnerable for roughly nine hours before the prob­lem was fixed. 
All of the schools use 
ApplyYourself, an online application and notification 
program made by a  Fairfax,  
Va., company.  
Len  Metheny,  

ApplyYourself's chief execu­tive, said applicants could access only their own admis­sions records. 
"There were only a small number of students who actu­ally had a decision," he added. "For the vast majority of applicants, decisions were not available in the system to be displayed. A blank page would appear." 
Metheny would not say if the company has been able to identify the hacker, who used the screen name "brook­bond." Business Week removed the hacking tips from its site. 
School officials hinted that applicants should expect to receive a rejection letter if they tried to hack into admis­sions records. 
Jim Gray, an associate dean at Duke's business school, said one applicant tried but failed to search the school's Web site for an acceptance letter. He said school officials know the applicant's name. 
"We're clearly looking at his application in a different light at this point," Gray said. 
More than 100 applicants to Harvard tried to access the school's admissions records. "Some appeared to find a decision. Some ·got a blank screen," Nelson said. "But even if they got a decision, the decision isn't final until March 30." 

SUPPL ES 
Poker Chips from $4.95;so Texas nn1n""m from $199.97 Poker Tables from $299.00 
Rentals Available 
large Seledion of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 


50510 St. Rd. 933N • South Beltd 
574·272-1617 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Friday, March 4, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,833.03 +21.06
}ones ;h 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume; I .SIS 185 ....,. 1,567,437,056 
AMEX I ,519.60 +6.34 NASDAQ 2,058.40 -9.1 () NYSf 7,357.12 +13.98 S&PSOO I ,210.47 +0.39 NIKK£1(Tokyo) II ,813.71 0.00 FTSf IOO(London) 4,992.80 -7.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -0.05 -0.02 37.61 SIRIUS SATELITTE R (SIRI) +0.51 +0.03 5.92 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.41 -0.10 24.52 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.08 -0.02 25.26 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.37 +0.24 17.74 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +0.34 +0.16 47.37 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.16 +0.07 43.79 5-YEAR NOTE -0.35 -0.14 39.94 3-MONTH BILL -0.56 -0.15 26.77 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.37 53.05 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.10 433.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.05 89.38 
Excha Rates 
YEN I 04.7400 EURO 0.7610 POUND 0.5226 CANADIAN$ 1.2393 

IN BRIEF 
Federal office receives complaint 
WASIIIN<;TON -The head of the federal omn~ responsible for protecting govnrnment whistlehlowers is the focus of a complaint lilnd Thursday hy sonw of his own employ­ens, who say he is undermining laws that nneouragn workers to nxposn wrongdoing. 
Scott Bloch. who runs the U.S. Officn of Spedal Counsel, rnfusns to enforce laws that protect whistlP!Jlownrs in the federal work­place, esJweially gays, and is retaliating against his own staff, the nmployees allegnd. 
Bloch's ol'fkn callnd thn allegations a set of "IHtSI~Iess charges" and said tlwy would be forwarded to the President's Council on lntngrity and Efficiency "in the hope that tlwy will be able to put them to rest once and for all." 
Analyst: slowed Medicaid saves less 
WASHINGTON-Congress' top budget ana­lyst estimates that Presidnnt Bush's plans to slow spending for Medicaid and other bnnn­IHs would savn less money than the White !louse nstimates, Thn Associated Press has learned. 
Aer.ording to pndirninary estimates by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Of'fice, Bush's proposals for trimming farm, vetor­ans. student loans and other lwnnfits would save $!iO.X billion over the next five years. That's $11.1 billion, or 1 X percent. less than tlw $(,2 billion in savings the White House nstimatl'd wlwn Bush rnleasml his nnw budg­et. last month. 
Tlw ro-ostimate could complicate the Hnpuhliean-run Congn~ss' job of writing its own budget lwginning noxt week. That is because it moans budgot writnrs will have to lind ovon mon~ savings than Bush proposed to arhievn the same amount of dnlicit reduc­tion hP claims -a task many lawmakers will lind painful. 
l>ifTnring hudgot projnctions by congrns­sional and Whit1~ Ilouse forncastnrs an~ com­mon lwraus1~ of diiTnring assumptions about programs' spending rates, the economy and otlwr factors. 
Tlw $11 billion disnPpancy is loss than 0.2 pl'l'cmJt of tho $7.7 trillion those programs an~ projoct1HI to spond over thn nnxt. l'ivn ynars. 
Stewart to leave federal prison 
Citizens of Alderson, W. Va. prepare to say goodbye to favorite convicted felon 
Associated Press 
ALI>EHSON. W. Va. ­The commemorative T­shirts and mugs have been printed up and the Dinner Bell rnstaurant is cooking up some Martha Stewart Swedish Meatballs as Aldnrson gets rnady to say goodbye to its favorite eon­vieted felon. 
Since inmate !i5170-0!i4 nntnrnd tho Alderson federal Women's Prison on Oct. 8, the town has seen a long line of Stewart sup­porters, celebrity friends and thn just-plain-curious make the 12-mile drivn oil' the interstate to sen where shn spont five months locked up for hnr part in a stock scandal. 
That comes to an end early Friday, when tho 63­yoar-old homnmaking authority leaves Alderson to begin serving the next phase of hei-sentence, live months under house arrnst at her $16 million Bedford, N.Y., estalf1, about !i50 miles from h1~re. 
Stewart's Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia announced Thursday that she'll board a private jet bound for New York between 12:30 a.m. and 
1:30 a.m. The company said she would make no public comments, but that a written statement would Alderson, W.Va." The crocuses worn plant­"This would not havo hap­be posted on Mayor Luther Lewallen ed, but a rocent cold snap pened to somoonn else. www.marthastewart.com. said Stewart's presence and several inches of' snow T h e y s Ia m -d un kod lw r 
Betty Alderson, who has has been a good thing for have kopt them from boeauso of' who she is." sold more than 1,300 his town of about 1,100. blooming. "I have been try­Whntlwr Stnwart will "West Virginia Living, It's a "As people came in, they ing to foree some out, but stop and speak to support­Good Thing," T-shirts, a found things they liked in they won't even f'orce," ers when she leaves prison play on Stewart's "It's a the stores," he said. Alderson said, no doubt wasn't elear, but Blaney good thing" catchphrase, Visitors not only pur­employing the kind of' gar­didn't want to miss the said the town needed the chased trinkets, but some dening tricks Stewart her­chance. economic boost Stewart's brought mementos of their sell' knows so well. "If we have to get up at 3 celebrity provided. own to show their support Other Stowart supportors o'elock in thn morning we 
At $17 each, the shirts for the gardening guru. have sont about 1,000 day will," said !Hanny, who helped pay last fall's bills, Jackie fiord of East lilies. Hnsidents plan t~> plans to hold up a Stewart­tho Alderson Store owner Hampton, N.Y., brought pick a sunny spot to plant brand f'loral print sheet, said. "Every business in hundreds of Martha them and call it "Martha's bearing the signatures of town profited," said Stewart-brand snow cro­Garden." Snattlo-aroa supporters. Alderson, who is married cus bulbs last fall, hoping Linda Blaney and her Sincn it opened in 1927, to a descendant of the residents would plant them friends are making a cross­the minimum-sneurity town's founders. so Stewart would see a country trok to show their prison has seen thn likns of 
For Stewart's release, splash of spring color as support. "We want to make Billie Iloliday, Tokyo Hosn, Alderson is soiling two new she left town. sure she knows we were Axis Sally and prnsidnntial shirt designs and a com­"I just want to support there and let her know we assailants Lynettn memorative mug that Martha the best way I support lwr," said Blaney, "Squeaky" Fromme and reads, "I spent time in can," she said. who lives near Seattle. Sara Jane Moore. 

Workers' annual productivity rises 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON-The productivity of American workers rose at an annual rate of 2.1 percent in the final three months of last year, sharply higher than originally belinvod. 
Tlw Labor Department had ini­tially rep1irtnd a month ago that produetivity -the amount of out­put pnr hour of work -had rison by just 0.8 porcent in tho October­Deeember quarter, a figure that had jolted financial markots because it raisnd worries that infla­tion pressures could be mounting. 
The better-than-expected 2.1 pnr­eent revised estimate for productiv­ity left this indieator for all of 2004 rising by 4 percent, the department said Thursday, capping the strongest three-year period for pro­ductivity growth in more than a half-century of record keeping. 
Produetivity is the key component for !'ising living standards. 
In a separate report, the depart­ment said the number of Americans filing first-time claims for unem­ployment bnnefits dipped by 1,000 last wonk to a seasonally adjusted :~1 0,000. 
It marked the fourth decline in jobless claims In the past. five weeks and pushod tho four-wook moving average for new daims down to 307,000. That was the lowest level since the wonk of' Oct. 2X, 2000 when the country was in the linal ynar of a record-breaking 10-year long nconomic expansion. 
In other nconomie nnws, many ol' the nation's largn rnt.ail chain storns rnportnd strongl~r-than­nxpnctnd sales in February. Analysts said nnw spring fashions and biggnr tax rnl'unds helped boost spmHiing in thn l'aen of anoth­er spike in oil priens and severn winter storms in thn Norl.lwasl and Midwest. 
Thn initial reaction on Wall Strnl't was positive to tlw strong rhain storn salns rnports and thn bPtter­than-expncted upward nwision in productivity. llownvnr, in later trad­ing thn Dow Jonns industrial avnr­agn slipped and nndnd tlw day up 21 points at 10,X:B. 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Friday, March 4, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Tbe lndq~ndnrt, Daily N'Wspaper Ser11ing Notre lhtmt! and Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 
024 Sourh Dining Hall, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 

Bengal Bouts are a source of pride 
As most students take off for spring break this weekend, a Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. These missions, run by select few will leave with some unfinished business. These the Holy Cross Brothers, benefit the poor, bringing education students will be anticipating the final rounds of the Bengal and outreach programs to those in need. Every year the box­Bouts tournament, which started this week and continues ers raise money and fight for the cause. after break. These boxers are a unique group. They train months just 
The Bouts, which began 75 years ago, are a unique experi­for the opportunity to step in the ring. Half lose in the first ence for not only the boxers, but for the Notre round. Months of sit ups, pushups and training Dame community as well Founded in 1931 by The are thus all geared towards one fight. Sure, · Dominic "Nappy'' Napolitano, the Bouts have a 0 oserver al some fighters go on to be champions, but what long-standing tradition of sportsmanship and • about the rest'? competition. Boxing came to Notre Dame in the They are, in a way, even more impressive.
Editon 
1920s under the watchful eyes of legendary Bengal Bouts and those who fight in them football coach Knute Rockne as a way to keep constitute another reason Notre Dame is a his football players in shape during the spring. But it wasn't special place. The tradition, purpose and never-give-up atti­until Napolitano that the Bouts became what they are today tude of the Bouts is one of a kind. So when spring break -a largely competitive event with a twist. ends, students are encouraged to get out to the Joyce Center 
Bengal Bouts isn't entirely about the fights. The event is and support the fights. They will no doubt be impressed by about the $45,000 the boxers raised last year to support the the dedication and service found both in and out of the ring. 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by d1e students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contem, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Man~ing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commemaries, letters and columns present the views ofme authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encour~ed. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during txiUt1 and vacati1m pc:riods. A subscription to The O'*rvcr is $100 for one academic ~at; $S5 fur one scmesccr. 
11lt Observer is publish.r:d at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections w: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0n9 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid a[ Notte Dame P.O. Box. 779 
and additional mailing office.~. 024 Soulh Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 46556..0779 
The Observer is a member of the As.slK:iated Pr~. AU reproduction rights :lf't teserva!. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
U-WIRE 



Raising taxes not the answer 
It seems that President Bush has fmally slipped away from the Republican plat­form. His solution for the Social Security crisis mirrors that of nearly all solutions proposed by the Democratic Party: raise taxes on the 
wealthy. Adam Scharn Although the cor­rect solution to this TexasA&M. crisis may not be University crystal clear, it is The Batallion quite clear that rais­ing taxes is not the answer. Even if the revenue from the increase could reduce the severity of the shortage of funds, it could only serve as a temporary solution. In other words, raising taxes on Social Security will only prolong its inevitable bankruptcy. The American people should not have more money taken out of their paychecks to correct this 70-year-old oversight. The working citizens of the United States pay a total of 15.3 percent of their annual income for what is commonly known as the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax. The bulk of this-12.4 percent-goes toward Social Security funds, with the remaining 2.9 percent earmarked for Medicare, accord­ing to CNN's Web site. There is no salary cap on Medicare, but there is a cap on Social Security, along with a somewhat complicated formula. These two compo­nents, the salary cap and the tax formula, are where the controversy lies. The salary cap is $90,000, an increase of$2,100 from 2004, according to the Social Security Web site. This means that 
12.4 percent can only be taxed on the first $90,000 of gross income. Therefore, a person making $110,000 would pay the exact same amount as one who makes $90,000. However, President Bush's pro­posal will increase the income amount that can be taxed. Sound familiar? It's called the liberal solution: Take more money from the middle and upper classes of American taxpayers, and use it to con­tinue the life of a government-sanctioned charity for the economically underprivi­leged. 
The main problems with increasing the cap on salary that can be taxed are based on two fmancial concepts. The concepts in question are self-employment and cost of living, and they are interrelated. The sell~ employment issue requires that the entire FICA tax -15.3 percent-be paid by the self-employed Individual. That is, an employee working on either wage-based or salary-based compensation, whether it be for a large or small business, only pays half the FICA tax, which translates to 6.2 percent for Social Security. The company pays the remaining half of the tax on behalf of the employee. However, as already stated, a self-employed person must pay the entire tax himself. It should be noted that self-employment 

generally translates to small­
able to do so partially with fed­
According to Americans for Tax Reform, beginning in 2018, Social Security will begin an uncontrollable downward spiral of debt. By 2027, the shortfall will be around $200 billion, and by 2033, this number will be closer to $300 billion. By 2042, the federallOUs for retired people will have completely run out. 
It is not easy to justify the notion that today's higher wage-earning American should have to pay even more money to the government for a retirement fund he most likely will never see. It is a noble idea that retired people should be taken 
care of, and it is perfectly accept-

business owner. 
At the current rate, the Social Security tax equates to $11,160 for the first $90,000 of every self-employed person. This may not seem like a great 
dealofmone~con­
sidering most small business owners produce well over $90,000 gross profit. This is of course only an estimation, but with the current cost of living, overall feder­al income taxes and so many business expenses, it is safe to assume that generating a total of 
eral dollars. However, the purpose of pl).ying for Social Security now is to provide oneself with future retirement 

funds. The idea loses much of its appeal when a person starts to see that he may never collect all the money that was taken with promise of return. How can Bush or Congress 
expect much, if any, support from the peo­ple whose taxes are about to jump on the 
basis of an IOU with such a bleak future? To quote Ronald Regan, 
$90,000 gross profit could 
"The taxing powers of the gov­bankrupt a small business owner. ernment must be used to provide 
Even considering this assumption as fact, $11,000 is quite a large chunk to take out of someone's pocket, especially considering all the other expenses that result from self-employment. To increase the amount that can be taken out of one's paycheck will only increase the financial burden on middle-class working citizens. Perhaps the extra revenue generated will bring money to the self-employed once they enter retirement, but it will not bring much benefit right now. 
Taxing for Social Security was initially to give the working class a nest egg for retirement. However, it is quite clear that this nest egg will not be around forever. 
revenues for legitimate government purposes. It must not be used to regulate the economy or bring about social change." 
Pulling Social Security out of debt for a few more years is not a legitimate govern­ment purpose. The current salary cap must remain intact, and Congress should search for alternative solutions. 
This column originally appeared March 2 in The Batallion, the daily publication at Texas A&M University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
News Sports Nicole Zook Matt Puglisi 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY

Mary Kate Malone Chris Khorey Katie Perry Kate Seryak What are you doing for Spring Break? Jarrett Lantz Scene 

"When you get to the end of your rope, 
a. Going home 31%
Viewpoint Christie Bolsen b. Staying on campus IS% 

tie a knot and hang on." 
c. Beach 20%
Alyssa Brauweiler Illustrator 
d. Cruise 5%
Graphics Graham Ebetsch e. Europe II % 

Franklin Delano Roosevelt
f. Skiing 3%
Graham Ebetsch 
g. Other 16% 

former U.S. president 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 199 responses. 

·-------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
I;riday, March 4, 2005 page 9 
Tortured policies in the U.S. 
While spnaking at Notrn Dame's 2001 <:ornrnnncmnnnt. Prnsidnnt (;norge W. Bush praisl'd tlw "gn~at tradition of ICatholirl soda) tnaching" and its call "to protect lil'n in all its stagns." In Brussnls, Bush recnntly not1nl 
John lnfranca

that democradns arn 
marked hy "tlw rule of' 
law and tlw rnsJJPd for Dissident 
human rights and Poetry 
human dignity." I won­der if' tlwrn was a hint of nostalgia in his 
r·emarks. In what stagn of lifo would 
Bush plaen Malwr Arar'? What dons he 
think about his human rights and digni­
ty'? 
Arar is a :H-ynar-old Canadian citizen who nwvml from his native Syria as a tPnrHLgnr. On Sl'ptnmber 2(,, 2002 Arar was taknn into custody in Knnnndy Airport hy Anwrican authorities while r.hanging planns. lin was intnrrogatnd and placnd in jail for thirtnen days, then sltippml to Syria. In Syria, lw was tor­turPCI. Ovnr onn ynar latnr. hn was rnlnas1Hf homo to Canada, a l'rne man. 
Tlw .lusticn Dnpartmnnt daims Arar is linknd to af ()amla, ynt they have filnd no c·hargns. llis torturnrs. through thn Syrian Ambassador, dndarml thny linrnd no terrorist link. Arar, it snnms, was the victim of' bad information passed by Canadian ollidals to tlwir American rountnrparts. who, utilizing a policy tnrnwd "extraordinary/irregular rendi­tion." d ispatdwd Arar to Syria. As Bob llnrbnrt notns in a nH:nnt Nnw York Tirnns column. through this policy the govnrnmnnt "snizes individuals, presum­ably tnrror suspncts, and sends them ofT without even a nod in the direction of dun process to countries known to prac­tke torture." 
Although congrnssionallngislation banning this practice has bnrm intro­dw:nd, it has gone nowhere. Justification for the practke relies in part on a clever reading of the U.N. Convention Against Torture, which requires "substantial grounds for believing" a suspect will be tortured abroad in order to prohibit transferring that individual to a foreign government. As with most delinitions affecting the war on terrorism, the Bush administration has used an apparnnt loophole to its intnrpretive advantage. 
Arar's ease oiTers further indication that Anwrka has a torture problmn. Hathnr than the isolatnd nvents of a few misguided individuals, as they havn been portrayed, the events at Abu Ghraib appear instead to be only the most glar­ing evidence of profoundly misguided policies. Their philosophical basis can bn traced to the days shortly after Sept. 11, when Vice-President Dick Cheney dedared, rngarding the response toter­rorism: "A lot of what needs to be done here will have to be done quietly, with­out any discussion, using sources and methods that are available to our intelli­gence agencies, if we're going to be suc­cessful. That's the world these folks operatn in. And so it's going to b1~ vital for us to use any means at our disposal, basically, to achieve our objective." 
This position was further devnloped in a memo written by Bush's Assistant Attorney General. It declared that for an aet to be classified as torture it must inflict pain "nquivalent in intensity to the pain accompanying serious physical injury, such as organ failure, impairment of bodily function or even death." Mirroring Bush's profound respect for human dignity, the same memo declared "cruel, inhuman, or degrading" treat­ment legally permissible. 
Some might argue that tactics aimed at avoiding prohibitions against torture are justified given the potential a confes­sion might save countless lives. Yet such utilitarian calculation appears to eontra­dict the good Christian president's rhetorical emphasis on proteding life in all stagos and respecting human dignity. Bush is adamant about making his · "faith" known, but mon~ and more one is led to wonder what that "faith" is in and whether it has praetieal implications. Is nothing sacred in the war on ter­and due process. 



In dismissing Uw ruin of' law and embracing an nthkjustifying "any means at our disposal." tlw govern mont nndangers respoet for human life and dignity. Yet this issun is not a nnw one. Extraordinary rendition hogan during tho Clinton administration. which itsnlf 
did little to invnstigatn accusa­
ror? tions of torture. Absent publi1· 
Aeeounts of torture beyond opposition to prarticos surh Abu Ghraib are not mere as those that lml to Malwr liberal speculation. The Arar's torture in Syria FBI reported in July 



will continuo. It is not that Guantanamo pris­surprising that a prnsi­oners wore subject to dont who snnt 152 physkal mistreat-pnopln to their death ment. nxtrmnn tem­while govnrnor of' peratures and lack Toxas and who of food and water. nHH~kingly imitatod One individual was 
Karla Faye loft in a cell heated 
Tucker's plea for over 1 00 degrees 
life should witrwss and found uncon­
such lack of' con­scious, having 
cern for human pulled out much of 
lifo and dignity. his own hair. The 
When r.onsidnr·ing military acknowl­
who is his noigh­edged that in 2003 bor, it appears twi> female inter­Bush is more than rogators at willing to draw the Guantanamo were eirde tightor and reprimanded for sexu­tighter. ally tinged techniques aimed at humiliating John lnfranca is a the­detainees. Among the 550 ology graduate student. individuals detained in /lis column appears every Guantanamo only four cur­
other Friday. For more infor­rently face charges. In 2002 the mation about torture world-
FBI's director refused a CIA request to send a few agents to a secret facility in Thailand to assist in "sweating" a sus­pect. These incidents occurred outside of American territory, in a realm without law, inhabited by "enemy combatants," devoid of Geneva Convention protections 
wide, he directs readers to the 7brture Abolition and .'iurvivors Support Coalition at http://tassc.org. 1/e can be contacted at jinfran 1 @nd. edu. 
The niews expressed in this column are those ofthe autlwr and not neces­sari('l those of The Observer. 
lETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Can you afford to be a liberal? 
Can you afford to bo a liberal'? people's lack of eating good vegetables and the success of fast food and other junk 
Hneydnd toilet paper, 12 rolls-$11.99. Cage-free eggs-$3.99. Organic, food. Health food is expensive. Being environmentally conscious is expensive. hiodngradablo shampoo-$6.99. Organic yogurt, 32 oz-$4.19. Obesity is definitely a elass problem in this country. The poor don't seem to go Going shopping without a heavy conseience and a healthy body-priceless. hungry any more, but they go malnourished. Where I shop for broad, frozen w~g-Last week I was driving home from campus ("Driving?" you scream -I should gies and other basics sometimes, the Save-A-Lot on the corner of' Wostern Ave. 
hav1~ hiked or walk11d or taken THANSPO to save precious fuels and cut 
and Chapin St., I think of all of tho affordable yet practically poisonod down on pollutants). I had an oxtrnrnely guilty craving. It was ten moats, milk and dairy produets with hormones and other trnatnwnts. o'elock in the ovening and I hadn't yet eaten dinner. Driving These types of foods have been known to causo early monsns and downtown I only had a few options after 10 p.m. I could cook, sexual development of young girls, and in some extrenwly noga­hut I had nothing in the housf1; then1 was Fiddler's or the 


tive circumstances making them more vulnerable to sexual Oystnr Bar, hut nothing there I could afford. MeDonalds, crimes or experiences at early ages. Thesf1 foods. whkh are Burgor King-hut those were no good because it was a much cheaper, actually contribute and help perpetuatn Friday in Lont. No moat. And their fish sandwich was just class divisions. They also are in some ways addietivn and too greasy for mo. Bnsides I only had about two bucks in mass-marketed to children, coating nutrients with extra my wallnt. That wouldn't even cover a trip to sugar, salt and fat. Mcl>onalds. And oh yeah, there's the Taco Bell. Taco 
This gets me very depressed. On my $15,000 a year lkll. The 7-layor burrito was calling my name: beans, 
(most of which goes to rent. books and other research rieo. guacamole. sour croam-what morn could a 
expenses) I ean barely afford to fend myself much more lwalth-eonseious vogetarian-for-a-day consumer of fast 
than the addictive Kraft Mae & Cheese (evon this gets food ask for at this time of the night? 
me down because Kraft is ownod by Phillip Morris). But no. I'd forgotton 01111 erueial problem with Taco 
with an occasional trip to Harmony market to treat Boll. Tomatoos. Immigrant farmers. I didn't care. I was 
myself to p,ggs from organieally-fnd, eage-frne chickens puslwd ovor tlw ndgo with hunger. Otw little seven-layer or organic hormono-free yogurt. Forgot eating meat that burrito wouldn't hurt. I drove to the Taco Bell. I went is environmentally eonseious or without hormones. I low through tho drive-thru. looked at the monu and was can a family possibly afford to fend itself lwalthy food on savnd. Tho voieo camo ovor the intercom and asked me, $20,200 (what two minimum-wage eal'llf~rs eould bring "What's your ordnr'?'' I felt like crying with the shame. I home in a 52 weeks)'? was stumbling ovnr my words and said, ''I'm sorry but I Tho next time you bite into your organie vngntahlns, tofu, don't think I want anything." I drove away back home to make cage-free ehieken or drink your hormone-l'ren milk, don't think mysnll' a pnanut butter and jelly sandwleh. Though a moral vie-about the hungry. Think about those who are hungry for the tory for mo. it sont mo to bod rather hungry and without a warm social justice of eating foods that don't pollutn bodies. Chango your moal. donating habits to food pantries. Donate frozen or l'rnsh vngetables 
I don't think I can afford to bn a consistent liberal. I, and others who aro also in a low ineomo bracket with no assistance from their families or enough assistancn from the govornment. am sometimes forced to participatll in the vicious eydo of pnrpntuating unfair labor schemes and exploitation. An old song goes, "I sold my soul to tho company store." Even I don't <:ross the line into the Wai-Mart storo ... but it's rnally hard, damn hard not to when so many other things that are eonsistont with my libnral values just aren't afTordablo to mn. I bet Wal-Mart employons can't afford to shop anywhere but Wal-Mart. 
I also hear many p11<1ple complain about this nation's problems with obesity, 

instead of canned. Some pantries even take frozen ehieknns and turkeys. Grow an organic garden for the homeless sheltnr this summer; tlwy will take your vegetables. Food is also an instrument of class division; let's take a bit11 out of it. 
Sarah MacMillen graduat<' smdent depanmem ofsociolof:,'Y March 3 
TI-···i E0 HSERVER 




CENE

page 10 Friday, March 4, 2005 
Play video games for a college degree 
By MARIA SMITH Scene EJitor 
Going to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is, without a doubt, a privi­lege. 
But after taking a look inside the DigiPen Institute of Technology, some garners out there might think they've chosen the wrong school. 
On a Thursday afternoon in class at the United States' first inter­active entertainment university, students are receiving unique advice. 
"This is not something your parents told you," professor Christopher Ernhardt said in a lecture on game design and produc­tion. "Play as many different games as possible." 
Video games are a young industry, and DigiPen is accordingly a young institution. Twenty years ago there was no need for a univer­sity like DigiPen, but the world has changed rapidly. 
Founder and president of DigiPen Claude Comair first created the DigiPen Applied Computer Graphics School in Vancouver, British Columbia (B.C.) in 1988 in response to ihe growing need for com­puter prot,>Tammers and 3-D animators. As the need for a formal source of qualified video game programmers increased, DigiPen began to expand its focus. The school accepted its first class of video game programming students in 1994. 
Tho students in the first classes began receiving job ofl'ers even before graduation. The campus in Redmond, Wash., built on land leased from Nintendo, was established in 1998. 
DigiPen is still a relatively small institution, with approximately 600 students, teachers and staff but has grown since its creation. 
DigiPen offers degrees in Heal-Time Interactive Simulation, Computer Engineering and 3-D Computer Animation, training some students in technology and game programming and others in art game creation. The graduate program, which takes applica­tions from outside as well as from DigiPen students, also allows students to earn a masters degree in computer science. 
Students in various DigiPen programs take classes in color theo­ry, character animation, robotics and real-time operating systems, but the focus is always on how to produce the best possible games and do it efliciently. 
"How are we going to keep them hooked?" Ernhardt said. "You can't rely on graphics to sell the title. It's all about pacing. After something exciting, give them a chance to catch their breath. They need to feel satisfaction before moving on." 
In an advanced art class, students are learning how to put together an impressive portfolio that plays to their strengths. 
"You have to remember what you're good at," professor Abbot Smith said. "If your specialty is cute, stick with cute. If your special­ty is vomiting zombies, build a portfolio around that." 
DigiPen students create original games for competitions such as the Game Developers Conference and for their portfolios, although DigiPen retains the rights to ensure that the university does not begin to compete with professional developers. 
DigiPen is elosely associated with Nintendo -Comair is also a chairman for the Nintendo Software Company. DigiPen graduates, however, do not always stay in-house and often move on to work for independent developing companies. 
Chief Operating Officer Jason Chu said graduates from DigiPen often find themselves ready for the job market without any further training, with game programmers starting at $45,000-$60,000 per year and 3-D animators at $45,000-$55,000 per year. 
But for some garners, it might be worth it just for the chance to influence the in-vogue market of video games -and maybe create that next immortal animated character. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


I• 


Childhood favorite tries to appeal to ne games that are innovat 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 

At Nintendo headquarters near Seattle, it's all about fun and games. 
That's the goal, at least, and that's what makes it out of head­quarters to the many avid video game fans around the nation. But video games are a competitive business, and keeping con­soles and games at a high standard and on the edge of the mar­ket is an endless task. 
In the world of video games Nintendo has the undisputed advantage of nostalgia. Older generations of garners might have fond memories of Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog, but Mario, Donkey Kong and Princess Zelda are a quintessential childhood memory for countless college-aged and older people across the country. 
But as the market matures, the tools for success change. Lately at video game and media stores around the country, Nintendo products just aren't selling as well as their counter­parts on PlayStation 2 and xBox. Whether it's the wide selec­tion of PlayStation games or the graphics capacity in the xBox, the products of media giants Sony and Microsoft have got an edge. The recently released Nintendo OS, a dual-screen portable system with a touch-screen and stylus, is going to face some tough competition from the new PSP, PlayStation's own handheld system. 
What will it take for Nintendo to keep its place in the market it created? For one thing, the company will have to keep up with their aging fans. 
"We're getting an older and older demographic," Brian Lucus, Best Buy public relations representative, said. "A lot of people grew up with video games, and they're maintaining a strong interest into their twenties and thirties." 
But Nintendo has a lot to gain from sticking to its roots. The same qualities and characters that formed the video game mar­ket might be its best bet for maintaining its place in the hearts and minds of garners. 
At the Nintendo College Media Day in Seattle, college reporters from around the country got a look at multiple aspects of video game marketing and developing. A two-day look at Nintendo headquarters and upcoming games showed that there's a lot going for the original video game masters. 
Nintendo headquarters 

Nintendo headquarters itself, located in Redmond, Wash., doesn't look like a fantasyland from the outside. But inside, the building is undoubtedly the home of Nintendo. Fan art mailed in to the company is displayed periodically along the walls. Walkways between cubicles are marked with street signs read­ing "Octorok Circle" and "Torpedo Ted Turnpike," and the con­ference room is labeled "Wario Woods." Every employee has a GameCube at their desk. 
At 5 p.m. sharp the video game test ing room much as they would from an paid to play games, but often play the again fOI" an entire work day. 
The gift shop is, of course, a walk Nintendo fans -a timeline display of ry of the company, which actually before the onset of video games. Ni flashlights and other merchandise countless games, and a big screen T new games as they come out. It i Nintendo fans can satisfy their cravin of the pixilated world they love. 
New waves in advertising 

One of Nintendo's perennial probl been able to lose its childlike image. "Night Fight Round 2" are not going t company's logo is a favorite childhood 
"We've had to change our focus an Kaplan, vice president of Marketin "The audience is larger. The question year-olds fall in love and still keep the 
This is perhaps the idea behind the college-aged garners. This includes t an 11-eity tour continuing through A dents a chance to try games and an " play," as well as publicity stunts at pq tions such as Panama City Beach, Flal be aiming at an older audience in its a OS sports the slogan "Touching is goo~ spot features MTV's Wildboyz, Chris Pd 
Marketing also breaks its consume1 Budding enthusiasts are a younger m: up games now and then. Image ani want everything the moment it comes most important in spreading a game t 
In some ways the move toward shame, since it seems to be a mov unique identity. But Nintendo is right chops for older audiences. "Resident graphics and an all-too-creepy at Nintendo can create games for an oil this is what will change the common1 uets. If the company can keep puttin~ may just lose its stigma. ; 
Quirks and traditions 

But hopefully Nintendo will continu does, on games that are innovative .a graphically better. 
"Donkey Konga," with its bongo dr 

Left, Donkey Konga is one of Nintendo's innovations in video games, with bongo drums for controllers. Middle, the Zelda franchise, which has a new game coming out soon, i 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Friday, March 4, 200'5 
page I I 
~--__--:===============~=---=--======= 


ovation 
and old fans with advertising and e yet traditional 

roam out ol' llw tnst­lwr job. Tlwy may gnt 1w lnvPI ovor and ovnr 
wn IIIPITJOry lane l'or ·tnms trac:ns tlw histo­dur.nd playing <~ards do randy dispmlSPrs. availabln along with n tlw r.orrwr I'Paturns ostly horn that avid r a rnal-lil'o rnflection 

is that it has nnvnr 
dl'n Nl.'l. 2005" and angn lhn l'art that tlw nHLLPd charadPr. ilosophy," said Perrin d Corporatn !\!'fairs. how do you makn six­
who an~ 2h'!" mml ia push toward 
int.-ndo Slrnnt Tnarn, I 2 giving collngn stu­imatn dorm room dis­Iiu· spring brnak loca­intnndo also SP<Hns to 
lising. Tho Nintnndo and its nnw tl'lnvision us and Sllwn-0. 
down into eatngories. l>ahhlors will pirk s, thn most avid fans, 
and arn pnrhaps tho w widnr market. luro adv1~rtising is a 
way from N in tl'rHio' s boast that it has thn vii 4," with inerndible plwrn, is proof that audinncn. !\ds aside, 1~w on Nintnndo prod­ut gnnws that good, it 
l'oeus, as it currently uniqun instead of just 
for rontrollers, is an 
exampln of an innovative game that strikes a new ehord, and will Inad to bettor things. "Donkey Kong: Jungle Beat," in whieh Donkey Kong is eontrollnd through levels using the drums, looks bizarre but is surprisingly entertaining and addictive. The ganw is liknly to becomn nxtrmnely popular after its release on Mard1 14. 
Many games produend by Nintcndo are almost directly trans­lated from their Japanese counterparts, whieh is a challengo both in language and in eulluro. Lovnls of soxual humor which are acc:eptable in Japan won't fly in the United States, and somnlimns games havn to bn edited to remove sexual over­tones. 
It ean also be hard to predict whether a game like "!\nimal Crossing." whieh takes players into a real-time village populat­Pd with animals, will actually bo a success in the United States. !\ groat doal dopPnds on how woll the game is translated, and ev<m if this is well nxecuted it might turn out to be just a little too strange for American culture. 
Nate Bildorf works in product development localizing games out of the Kyoto studio and the nnw Tokyo studio for the United States. This ineludos translating messages and descriptions as W<~ll as voiccovers. 
'"!\nimal Crossing' had over 20,000 messages -it was a nightmare to localize," Bildorl' said. "You've got to lit a descrip­tion in twelve eharactms. In kanji, you can say a par·agraph." 
;\s the IHHHI l'or new and innovative games increases, NintPndo has begun trying to capitalize on any of these new ganw ideas which might provido a new oxporicneo. Tho Nintondo DS offers a particular opportunity for strange and unique games. "WarioWarn: Touehod!" is an example of some­thing which is initially bizarrn, but has become reasonably pop­ular. 
"Maybe 10 years ago that wouldn't havn made it out of Japan," Bildorf said. "It has to be vory Japanese for us not to want it." 
"Polarium," a black and white geometrical takeoff' on Totris­stylo strategy games, will probably not be a bestseller after its n~loas11 on !\pril IX. but will likely become a nnw addietion for other gamnrs. 
Ninterulo also does well to rely on the characters that have made it famous. Mario eontinuns to be a huge franchiso. The now game in tho Zelda franchise will be Nintnndo's focus for E3 2005, the hugely anticipated video game conference in May. The ol'llwat and the nostalgie might not be tho biggest markets, but thny're out there, and Nintendo has an undoubted knack for both. 
It would be a sad day for video games if' Nintendo lost its place in the video game scene. But Nintendo has enough inno­vative power to keep it going. This particular fantasy world of' childhood has yet to fade away. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


Girl garners do exist, but in the minority 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
There .aren't many serious "girl garners" working at Nintnndo hnadquarters, but Deanna Guay is proud to bP one of thnm. 
Vidoo games are a male-dominated pastime. Tho chances of walking into a room in Pangborn Hall and finding a GanwBoy are probably less than tlw chances of walking into a quad in Morriss<~y Manor and finding a GamnCuiJP, Xbox and PlayStation2 stacked next to each other. 
But Guay and her husband have always bnen gamnrs. Tho eoupln had Pong and !\tari before the real birth of Nintendo. They bought the n~gular Nintnndo eonsolo when it lirst eame out and have had every systmn sinen t.lwn. Guay's all­time favorite game is Uniraeors, and her husband hesitates to play against hnr in Tetris Attack. 
!\I though the corporate sido of Nintnndo does not senm to show particular gml­der disparities, the ganws do not of'ten seem to catch on with womnn the same way they do with men. Guay estimates she is one of three or four of the wonHm working in consumer Sf~rvko who really gets into the games. 
Guay, who answers customer calls and works on Team Nintnndo, linds wonwn who do play games of'ten pick up a dill'enmt set of ganws than snrious main gamers. 
"Girls aren't as much into the football, baseball, Mortal Kombat kinds of games," she said. ''Th(~y like the cute games, (ir tho puzzle ganws." 
The diiTerence may just be in the level of diflieulty lnarning to play-whnrnas mastering the eontrols and learning to movn in a gamn like llalo or Mntroid Prime is diflicult, picking up a game ofTotris is much easinr. 
Vice presidnnt of Marketing and Corporate !\ll'airs !'orrin Kaplan said tlw Nintendo DS, with its touch scrnen and stylus in addition to button mntrols, has a slightly higher percentage of' fnmale usnrs than the GamoCubn. Guay has noticed that Donkey Konga and Donkey Kong Jungle Bnat, which use a snt of' bongo drums instead of a hand-held eon troller, am also popular with womnn. 
"Wlwn we testnd Mntroid Prime llunters for the DS, boys se1\mnd to lik1~ tlw buttons bettnr, but girls liked thn stylus," Guay said. "We seem to hn morn into holding a pen and writing than boys arn. Girls semn to like tho bongos too." 
Perhaps the difl'erent preferences also lie in the scenarios, with stratn1-,ry or sto­ryline as opposed to violence, or in attadunnnts to familiar eharadnrs. 
"I get grandmas who eall in about Znlda, and thny'll just talk and talk," (;uay said. "Wheel of' Fortune is such an addietivn gamn, I get housewives who call in on that one." 
!\nd it goes down the linn from "grandmas" to "housewives" l.o n~malo stu­dents at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Notre Dame senior Sarah Bates enjoys thn old sdwol Mario games but also lovos Donkey Konga. 
Notre Dame senior Leslie Humboldt and Saint Mary's junior Sarah Nowak both consider Tetris one of' their favoritns, with various Mario games dosn behind. 
For Notre Dame junior Katie Hossi, it's Kingdom lloarts, a storyline gamn for PlayStation2 featuring favorite Disney eharadnrs, and Danen Danen Hnvolution. 
"I don't think girls like tho shootnr gamns for the most part bncausn in my expnrionce, they're kind of repotitivc and just challnnging in difli~rnnt ways than storyline gamos," Hossi said. 
Saint Mary's senior Kelly llradsky pmfnrs racing gamns -induding Mario Kart and Crash Team Hadng-partly becaus1~. she bnlinves. many role-playing games seem to be created almost exclusively for nwn. 
"If you want to be a female charador you have to be a tiny girl with a huge chest,'' llradsky said. "No girl can relate to that." 
Notm Dam1~ senior Meegan Anderson prefers to play Kingdom llnarts and Tho Urbz: Sims in the City. While sho and her roommate both like to play, they rarnly play multiplayer games with simultaneous play. 
"Girls don't usually got together in big groups and play," !\ndorson said. "I think that's why the sports games aren't as popular." Whatever psyehological, biological or cultural difl'ernneos exist betwenn men and women, the split is obvious in the world of' gamers. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

Photos courtesy of www.gccafe.com, www.n-prime.com and www.square-eniX.com 
,an old favorite for traditional Nlntendo enthusiasts. Kingdom Hearts, a PlayStatlon2 game featuring several Disney characters, Is popular among Notre Dame students. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 4, 2005 
FENCING 


Postseason begins with Regionals in Detroit 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
The postseason is here, but until the end of the finals, this weekend's match will be Notre Dame's most important one. 
The championship process will begin for Notre Dame Sunday, as it travels to Detroit to compete in the NCAA Regionals. A strong performance in the tournament is critical to qualifying for the NCAA Championships, as 60 per­cent of the selection criteria is based on the outcome, while 40 percent comes from regional seeding and regular season per­formance. The slots available for each region vary by weapon, and each team is allowed to qualify two competitors from each weapon for a maximum of 12 fencers for nationals. 
In their quest for a second national title in three years, the Irish-No. 1 in the women's poll and No. 4 in the men's -antici­pate sending the maximum number of competitors to nation­als. 
"We hope we will qualify ten­to-twelve fencers, and this will give us a chance to compete for top medal positions," coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
Going into Regionals, Notre Dame is prepared to face its toughest and most crucial test yet. 
"The reality is that it will be hard Ito qualify 12 fencers], because there are very good teams in the Midwest," Bednarski said. "The competi­tion [field] is small, but tough." 
Those teams who pose a threat to Notre Dame's ambitions include defending champion Ohio State, who is No. 2 in the women's poll and No. 1 in the men's. The Buckeyes are arguably strongest in men's sabre, where two of the region's five slots will almost certainly go to a pair of the team's trio of Jason Rogers, Jason Paul and defending NCAA champion Adam Crompton. The Irish are looking also to send fencers in sabre, with sophomores Patrick Ghattas and Matt Stearns ranked in the top five for the region. 
The Notre Dame's women's sabre is in strong position, led by Olympic gold medalist Marie! Zagunis and defending NCAA champion Valerie Providenza. 
In women's epee, the Irish already have one fencer quali­fied for one of the region's six NCAA finals slots. 
Senior Kerri Walton, who will not compete in Regionals due to a World Cup conflict, has been assured a spot through a special petition process. 
Based upon seeding, the Irish have two fencers predicted to qualify in all weapons but men's foil. 
While freshman Jakub Jedrkowiak is seeded second, sophomore Frank Botempo's performance may prove critical in Notre Dame's hunt for a title, as he is·currently seeded sixth in a weapon that only guarantees four fencers from the region. 
A strong performance Sunday will almost certainly advance him to the next round, which would provide the Irish with a better chance to win the champi­onship. · 
However, perhaps the most important challenge Notre Dame has before it will be returning everyone to top form from injuries. 
"We are doing everything to prepare the fencers," Bednarski said. "The fencers are curing, and slowly they are getting to better health." 
Among the injured fencers is senior women's foilist Alicja Kryczalo, the three-time defend­ing NCAA champion. Kryczalo has been struggling with a knee injury that limited her action in the Midwest Conference Champio"nships last weekend, but the possibility of her recov­ery to 100 percent by Sunday seems promising. 


"Alicja returned to training, and yesterday she felt no pain," Bednarski said on Thursday. 

On the brink of the most important matches of the season, Bednarski trusts his team's tal­ent won't be negated by injuries. 
"I hope that the chain of health events of the last two weeks will stop," he said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
HocKEY 

Underdog Irish to take on Spartans in East Lansing 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer  place in the league. The Irish will face either Michigan or Ohio State in the first playoff round in  to play the rest of this year with the mindset that this weekend is our two-game season, and then  ry was also Notre Dame's last conference win. The Irish have lost five  for us this year." But it won't get any easier for the Irish this weekend as they  
a best-of-three series Mar. 11-13,  we're going into the playoffs.  straight, but their offense has  face  one  of the  CCHA's  top  
It will probably take more than  depending on which team fmish­ "The beauty of the CCHA is  been on a tear in comparison  goalies in the Spartans' Dominic  
a spartan effort for the Irish to  es first in the CCHA.  that every team gets into the  with the team's scoring earlier in  Vicari. The sophomore is third in  
break their 15-game winless  The Wolverines are 4-0 this  playoffs, so we can get some  the season.  the CCHA with a  2.35 goals­ 
streak this weekend.  season against the  momentum  Notre Dame has scored at least  against average and a save per­ 
Notre Dame (5-23-6, 3-18-5  Irish, outscoring  against Michigan  two goals in its last five games,  centage of .922. Vicari also leads  
CCHA) will take on Michigan State (15-15-4, 10-13-3) this  Notre Dame 29-6 in those contests.  'The beauty ofthe  State and then hopefully go into  including three goals twice. While that does not sound like  the league in shutouts, having blanked his opponent four times  
weekend in a home-and-home series to close out the regular season. The Irish will face the Spartans in East Lansing, Mich.,  But despite the daunting task ahead of his team, Irish coach Dave  CCHA is that every team gets into the playoffs. ''  the postseason on a good streak." The Irish were  much, the Irish are the worst offensive team in the CCHA, scor­ing just 1.65 goals per game this season.  this season. Forwards Colton Fretter and Jim Slater lead the Spartan offense with 38 and 37 points,  
Friday and return home to close  Poulin is focused  idle last week­ Highly-touted freshman for­ respectively. Fretter has found  
out the series Saturday. The Irish will face a Spartan team who is fighting for the last  on beating Michigan State and getting the  Dave Poulin Irish head coach  end, while the Spartans split a series with  ward Victor Oreskovich finally picked up his first goal of the season and forward Matt Amado  the back of the net 17 times, while Slater has scored 13 goals. Notre Dame faces Michigan  
home-ice spot in the CCHA play­ Irish their first win  Bowling Green  scored two goals in Notre Dame's  State at Muon Arena in East  
offs. Michigan State is currently  since a 2-1 victory  as  each  team  last series against Michigan, but  Lansing at 7:05 p.m. Friday. The  
in the league's eighth place slot,  over Rens!;)elaer Jan. 2 at the  won at home.  that newfound offense might be  Irish then close out their regular  
two points behind Miami of Ohio  Joyce Center.  Michigan State has struggled of  too little, too late.  season with a 7:05 p.m. face-off  
and Alaska Fairbanks, who are  "After the Michigan game [on  late, losing four of its last six  "It's still not too late for this  against the Spartans at 7:05  
tied for sixth-place. The top six  Feb. 191. we talked at length  games.  Notre  Dame  is  1-1  team to do something," Poulin  p.m. Saturday at the Joyce  
finishers in the CCI lA get home  about what it feels like to have  against the Spartans already this  said. "We've talked all year about  Center.  
ice in the first round of the CCHA  your season end," Poulin said.  season, with the one win coming  how we haven't really been get­ 
playoffs.  "It's a very hollow feeling, and  in a 3-2 overtime decision at the  ting any of the breaks, and we  Contact Justin Schuver at  
Notre Dame is guaranteed last  we decided that we were going  Joyce Center Dec. 10. That victo­ still believe that they're coming  jschuver@nd.edu  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righl to edi!
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
COLLEGE PARK DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING Save your grant money & buy a CONDOMINIUMS AVAILABLE FOR LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. refurbished DELL 
FoR RENT 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR. SCHOOL YEAR 708 S.B. AVE-605 ST. PETER WANTED computer.$100&up. 229-3333 
TWO BEDROOM. ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL CALL 532-1408 Great 6-7 bdrm home available TWO BATHS. MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR MMMRENTALS.COM 6/1/05. HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BEDROOM Catholic fam1ly ollenng full lime PERSONAL Also very nice 3-bdrm available DETAIL. HOUSES. 6 BEDROOM3.5 BATH. summer childcare opportunity; NOW. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 4 children ages 6 to 12; Bahamas Spring Break Cruise Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site park-2-6 BEDROOM HOMES SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, 1950 PER MONTH+ Scottsdale Mall area; 7:30am to 5 Days $299! ing. WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAM-DRYERS. DEP. STAFF AND FACULTY ONLY. 4:30 pm; wages negotiable; non Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! ND Internet Canopy access. PUS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. CALL BRUCE 876-3537. smoker; own transportation needed. Panama City, Daytona $1591 Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 708 S.B. AVE-605 ST. PETER ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-Call Maureen 360-1738. Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, 
CALL 532-1408 2007 SCHOOL YEAR -2-3 bdrm houses avail. now and 05-Nassau $499! Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 MMMRENTALS.COM 2·3-4-5-6-7-8-10 BEDROOMS. 06.Ciose to ND. Award Winning Company! bdrms. HOUSES GOING QUICK. Call 276-2333. SpringBreakTravel.com
FoR SALE

High-end and furnished. 6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. VISIT OUR WEBSITE Omni Properties 1-800-678-6386 Ask about FREE student rent pro-1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM gram. 1950 PER MONTH+ OR CONTACT: KRAMER KNOLLWOOD HOME FOR RENT, OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 I love you, Alison! Blue & Gold Homes DEP. STAFF AND FACULTY ONLY. 574-234-2436 4BD,2.5 BATH,$1650. 858-722-rm, 2 bath. For details (57 4 )250-7653 .. CALL BRUCE 876-3537. OR 574-315-5032. 4469. fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. Galen: That was hot! 
Priday, March 4, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS N D WOMEN's TRACK 
Irish to co1npete in Wilson Invite 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
i\ group ol' Irish athlntns will compnln this wnnkmHI in an n!Tort to gnl tlwmsnlves ofT tho NCAA bubble. 
Sound liuniliar'? 

But this toam's alhlntns do not pass, shoot and s1:orn -lhny nm, jump and throw. 
While tho mnn's basketball loam looks to sPal an NCAA hnrth tomormw allnrrwon in tho .IACC, llw Notrn Damn wonwn's track t.nan1 will hn running an .-q ually important nwnt in Loftus Sports Cnnt1~r at t.hn i\lnx Wilson Invitational. which begins tonight. 
With sovnral athlntns on tho brink ol' NC/\1,\ qualification, tho Irish will finld team nwmbers in a limit.-d numhnr of nvnnts. Many runners who would nor­mally mmpntn in s1weral nvnnts will only run oru:n, lill~using their attention on llwir strongest 1wonl in an nl'l'orl to qualify for nnxl wonk's NCAA Indoor ( :harupionships. 
A handful ol' Irish athlntes, highlighted hy high jumpnr Staroy Cowan, havn tho NC/\As within tlwir roach. Tho junior rurrnnlly stands No. I H in thn nation in llw high jump, lind with snv11n othnr athlnlns al I.HO mPlPrs. Tho NCAA minimum linld l'or tho high jump is 14 com­pntitors. 
"As il stands now, slw'd proba­bly lw in lmcausn slw's lind with tho kids who arn in 13th and 14th," Irish coach Tim Connolly said. "But if a ti1w kids hit somn jumps this WPPk, shn could fall out of that lop 14. Shn nnnds to hit a jump this wnok t.o fool eom­l'orlabh 
"I likn hnr chancns, though, bocausn she always jumps wnll at homn. Stacey is probably in l.lw bnst position to qualily out ol' all our women this weekend." 
Stnphanin Madia faeos a simi­lar prndieamnnt in the 3000 motors. Tho junior currently ranks No. 21 in tho nation in that nvnnt. Connolly knows Madia can improvn. 
"I MadiaI is clearly capable of running J'astnr," Connelly said. "She ran ono of her bnst timns ol' thn year in her fourth raen of tho Big East moot." 
Other Irish athletes that have tlw opportunity to qualify indude Maryann Erigha in the 60 meters and the 200 meters and reigning Big East champions Okechi Ogbuokiri and Tiffany Gunn in the 400 meters. 
"They have the opportunity, 

but they know they have to run fast," Connolly said. 
More than 100 teams are expected to compntn this week­end, as this servos as the lin a! opportunity to qualify for the NCAA's. As one of the only NCAA-sanctioned meets this weekend, the competition is expected to be intense. More than 80 provisional and auto­matic qualifying times wern achieved at this meet last year. The Irish then will move out­doors following next weekend's NCAA Championships. 
"We are a work in progress," Connelly-said. "We've had numerous [personal records!. but we've also been hurt by injuries." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkeifer 1 @nd.edu 


The san:1e low rate on new or~sed autos­leaves Qur competition in the d~st. 
I 
I 
! 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
page 13 
SMC GOLF 

Belles open year in North Carolina 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will kiek oll' its spring season ovor thn break with a spring training trip to Pinehurst, N.C. Tho tnam will depart on March 6 and remain in North Carolina until March 12. 
After they rnturn from t.lw trip, the Bolles will have near­ly another month to preparl' l'or their first competition of the spring. Thn season opnns on April 1 when tho team joins the field of tho Purpln and Whitn Invitational at Capital University in Ohio. 
After capturing tho MIA/\ Conference title in tlui fall 2004 snason -their third consecutive eonferoneo cham­pionship -the Belles arn going into tho spring season in a fairly conlident position. Tho team has partieipated in tho NCAA National Championship for the past two ynars, and with a tnam that has remained intact for the most part, 2005 could provide the same opportunit.y.Al'tor cap­turing their third MIA/\ titlo, Saint Mary's is ranked No. 3 in the nation in tho national rankings of both tho Goll' Channel and Golf'Stat.com for Division Ill Women's Golf'. Methodist College and Mary llardin-Baylor are ranked above the Belles. 
Seniors Stefanio Simmerman and .Julia Adams should lead the Belles this 
spring. Simmorman was a 2003 NCAA National Champion and linislwd No. 12 in tho 2004 tournament. Slw has bonn nanwd first tnam i\11-Mii\A nvnry year sinen 2001. 
Adams was an Mli\i\-tour­nanwnt nwdalist in 2004 as wnll as in 2002. SIH~. too, has bonn named to tho i\11-Mii\i\ lirst team in tho past, earning t.lw honor both in 200:~ and 2004. Adams also mndalod for the 2004 MIA/\ Championship. 
Both Simmnrman and Adams had a vory strong fall 2004 season, avnraging scorns of 79.1-12 and H 1.1 R, rnspne­tively. Thoy both l'inishnd in tho top ton in nvnry MlA/\ compntition. 
Snnior and team captain Chrissy Dunham is nxpnetod to have an nspneially strong snason this spring. Dunham was namod to tho f'irst tPam i\11-Mii\A aftor improving lwr avnrago scorn from I{<). 67 in tho spring ol' 2004 to HI. 73 in thn fall. 
Saint Mary's has a positivi' outlook for the 2005 spring season. For two years in a row, tho tnam has com pntnd in tho national championships and has capturnd thron con­l'ornnen titlns in as many years. With the majority of tlw NCAA tnam still together, the Bellos are positionnd for another run at the champi­onship. 
Contact Anna Fricano at afical @saintmarys.edu 
MEN'S TRACK 

Runners look to earn berths in NCAAmeet 
people qualily, and othnrs who
By JOHN EVERETT 
havn alrmtdy qualilind we'd likn 
Sports Writer 
to have improve their times," 
Piane said. "Our men's distance 

With the NCAA Indoor mndley has a legitimatn shot to Championships to be held in qualify at this moot." Fayetteville, Ark., next wnek, Piano also mnntionod junior many collegiate track tnams distance runner Tim Moorn as a need one last chance to get runner with a good ehaneo of' 
some athletes qualified for the making the cut. this weekend in prestigious meet. the 5000 meters. Notre Dame's Piane eitnd Alex Wilson "Our men's senior Solim Invitational will Nurudonn a..<; an
distance medley 
offer athletes example of an from many teams has a ... shot to Irish athlete look­just that chance qualify at this ing tl) improve on 
this weekend . a qualifying
meet."
The Invitational mark. Nurudoen will be held at the has alrnady qual­Loftus Center on Joe Plane ified for the Friday night and Irish head coach NCAA<> in tJw 60­
all day Saturday. Michigan, Illinois, Penn State, Wisconsin, Texas, Washington, Duke and Virginia are just some of the teams that will be sending competitors to South Bend. Most of these teams will only send a small contin­gent to the meet, comprised predominantly of those who are dose to the qualifying mark in their event. 
As for the Irish objective for the meet, coach .Joe Piane sot specific goals for the weekend. 
"We'd like to see some more 

metor hurdles and dash, as well as the 200-moter dash. 
At tho Alex Wilson, he will bn running the 200 meters to try and improve his lime in that event. 
On Mar. 11-12, those Notre Dame athletes who havn almady qualified and those who manage to do so this weekend will travel to the NCM Indoor Championships. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 

--------------------. 
page 14 · The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 4, 2005 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Saturday last chance to qualify for NCAAs 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer  Championships to vie for NCAA spots. Sophomore Ted Brown will  selected with a strong time on Sunday. 'Tm very confident that Ted  compete in the NCAA Zone C Diving Championships March 11-12 in West Lafayette, Ind.  The two meets will give Notre Dame a chance to add to its list of swimmers under considera­ 
swim the 500-meter freestyle to  will post a faster time," Irish  Unlike  the  other swimming  tion  to  swim  at  the  NCAA  
Having capped off one of its  represent the Irish at the Boiler­ coach Tim Welsh said. ''I'm con­ events, the zone qualifying meet  Championships, which currently  
best seasons in school history  Make-It Invitational at Purdue  fident he will do a life-time best  represents the only chance for  stands at an impressive eight.  
with a Big East championship  University this weekend.  and set a new university record  divers to qualify for the NCAA  "We've never had eight people  
two weeks ago, Notre Dame will  The invitational falls on the  for the event."  Championships.  under consideration for the  
look to add to its accolades over  last day for swimmers to qualify  Another Irish swimmer look­ "The zone qualifying meet is  NCAAs," Welsh said. "As a pro­ 
break, sending representatives  for competition in the NCAA  ing to qualify for a spot in the  extremely difficult," Welsh said.  gram, we still think we're mov­ 
to the Boiler-Make-It Invitational  Championships. Brown hopes to  NCAA Championships is fresh­ "We're in the Big Ten area, so all  ing in the right direction, putting  
and  NCAA  Zone  C  Diving  improve his chances of being  man diver Sam Stoner, who will  the divers in this entire area will  one foot forward every time."  
go to Purdue that weekend.  Even if members of the Irish  
There is a very small number of  squad do not manage to qualify  
designated spots for each zone;  for the NCAA Championships  
40 or 50 divers will go down  with their performances over  
there, and maybe only five or six  break, their coach said the sea­ 
will advance:"  son will still remain an over­ 
Welsh, who earned Big East  whehning success.  
Coach of the Year honors for the  "Everything is a win from here  
second consecutive year, expects  on," Welsh said. "The season's  
a strong showing from Stoner.  been great, the number of uni­ 
"It's a very high level of pres­ versity records has been terrific  
sure, but it's very exciting for  and the number of guys inside of  
Sam to get to go as a freshman  that consideration number has  
and get this great experience,"  been terrific. "Whatever hap­ 
Welsh said. "I think Sam will  pens, we're going to be happy  
have his best performance of the  with it."  
Observer File Photo  year. He's been diving well, and  
Irish backstroker Andrew Mikay competes in the Dennis Stark Relays in October. Notre Dame  I'm confident he'll have his best  Contact Ryan Duffy at  
swimmers and divers will vie for NCAA spots at two different meets this weekend.  meet of the year."  rduffy 1 @nd.edu  

SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles kick off season vvith spring break trip to Florida 
St. Mary's to play 11 games over an 8-day span in Fort Myers 
By BRIAN CARDILE 
Sports Writer 
Like many of their class­mates, Belles softball players are heading south for spring break. But Saint Mary's hopes to return from its trip with more than sunburns and sou­venirs. 
The team looks to start strong on its 2005 campaign, which kicks off this week in Ft. Myers, Fla. 
The defending MIAA champi­on Belles .will play eleven games in the next eight days against teams from all over the country. 
The team that takes the field this week in Florida will look somewhat different than last year's St. Mary's squad, which lost four starters to graduation. The 2005 club fields no seniors and is headed by a first-year head coach, Kristi Beechy, who takes the helm of her first colle­giate program after serving as an assistant at Sienna Heights for two seasons. But th·e squad is not without experience ­most all returning members played crucial roles in last year's MIAA championship run. 
Three returning Belles ­Audrey Gajor, Laura Heline and Bridget Grall -had double digit RBis in the 2004 campaign and will look to continue their offensive prowess. Catcher Sarah Miesle, with a .988 field­ing percentage last year, will help anchor the defense. 


The Belles' spring break slate starts today with a match against Transylvania University. Beginning Sunday, the squad will use that extra Florida sun­shine to squeeze in two games per day. The first doubleheader will pit the Belles against Mac Mur.ray College and Alfred University. 

On Monday, the team faces Lakeland College and Hiram College. 
Dominican College and Saint Mary of the Woods fill Tuesday's lineup, while Emmanuel College and Medaille College await the Belles on Thursday. Finally, St Mary's wraps up the whirlwind week with games against Rensselaer Polytech and Aurora University. 
Contact Brian Cardile at bcardile@nd.edu 

The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting notninations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dan1e, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by Friday, March 4, 2005. 
Friday, Momh 4, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Team looks to continue hot start against Cornell Saturday 
lenge," Irish coach Kevin hat tricks. ful not to lose your aggressive­momentum than if you didn't
Irish take on Big Red 
Corrigan said. "This team is This week, the Irish have a ness while doing so." win it, but it's one game and one week after historic mueh more patient and slightly different game plan Aside from the offense, the we're certainly not going to try methodical ofl'ensively, !they are coming in both on offense and Irish played very well on to make too mueh of it,"
win over Penn State much more stricti about what defense, a strategy· that will defense, as senior goalie Corrigan said. thny are going to do and what cater better to Stewart Following Saturday, Uw Irish they are not going to do. They the type of Crosland saved will have a quick turnaround
By BOBBY GRIFFIN "The challenge will be 
don't just let it flow. They have opponent they 75 percent of the and will play Tuesday at
Spom Writer 
a plan, they are going to stick to will face. to play a different kind shots he faced. Villanova. the plan and they aro going to "The chal­ofgame than we played The perform­"That will be a tough one Notrn Dame dominated Penn execute very well." lenge is to ance earned beeause you will bn eoming
last week." 
State Sunday at University Park Notre Dame completely out­play a differ­Crosland the baek on short rnst and trying to in their first game of the 2005 classed its opponent last ent kind of Great Western play a team that has a lot of season. Sunday, marking the largest game than we Kevin Corrigan Lacrosse League peoplo baek from a tnam that 
Now, the Irish have to worry margin of victory on the road played last Irish head coach Player of the did vnry wnll last yoar," about continuing their solid over a ranked opponent in the week in terms Week award. Corrigan said. start Saturday, when thn team school's history with its 14-6 of defense," Corrigan Tho Irish, however, have to travols to Cornnll. win. Corrigan said. "Ofl'ensively, this agreed the team certainly has worry about Cornell first. 
But Cornell will presnnt the In that game, the Irish got is a team that sits back in a lit­momentum coming off its victo­The teams will meet at 1 p.m. Irish with an obstacle they did great production from their for­tle more, challenges you to be a ry, but he said it is important on Saturday in lthaea,·NY. not encounter against the wards -Pat Walsh, Matt little more patient, a little more not to get lost in the recent suc­Niltany Lions. Karweek and Jim Morrison -selective offensively. At the cess going into Cornell. Contact Bobby Grffin at 
"It's a difl'erent kind of a chal-as all three starters collected same time, you have to be care-"Obviously you've got more rgriffi3@nd.edu 
ND WoMEN's lAcRossE 
Pair of Northwestern runs down Irish, 18-11 
5-0 second-half run lifts No.. 3 Wildcats  matter what their ranking," freshman midfielder Caitlin MeKinney said.  utos. The Irish quickly countered, though, as Crysti Foote put  goals. The two teams spent tho next 17 minutes alternating  the Wildcats then lit up tho scornboard five times within the next live minutns to takn a  
over Notre Dame  Behind McKinney's three goals and an  Notre Dame on the board just 19 seconds  three goals apiece until Northwestern's Kristen  commanding 14-9 lead. First, Northwestern's  
assist, the Irish hung in for  "When we had the  after the sec­ond Wildeat  Kjellman and Aly Josephs net­ted consecutive goals in just  Lindsey Munday (five goals, three assists) fed Sarah  
Hy KEN FOWLER Sports Writer  three-quarters of tho game but snemed to run  ball, we were scoring.  goal. Coming off her career-high  over a minute and a half. The Wildcats then added two more goals to their lead  Albrecht for a score. Loss than twenty seconds later, Laura Glassanos found  
out of gas at the  five-goal  per­ and took a 9-4 advantage with  the back of the net, and the  
Tho Irish knew it wouldn't  end, falling to the  Caitlin McKinney  formance  4:10 remaining in the first  Wildcats' attack  was  in full  
be easy, but they  wore  mady  Wildcats, 18-11.  Irish midfielder  against  Ohio  half.  swing.  
for a light Thursday al'lnrnoon  Northwestern  University  in  Then, Notre Dam~ went on a  Three of' tho five goals dur­ 
against No. 3 Northwestern.  jurnpnd out to an  the team's first  run of its own.  ing thn 5-0 run eame on  free­ 
"We  worn  rnally pumped  to  early 2-0 load  on  a  pair of  regular-season game, Foote  Foote scored  her second  position attnmpts caused by  
go out there and play them no  goals within the lirst five min- finished the contest with three  goal with 2:31 remaining, and  Irish fouls in front of' the not.  


UNIVERSITY 01' NOTRE OAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 





h£nb~MUSIQVE 

Kaki Orr followed with a goal of her own with 1:09 left on the clock. 
Arter another Irish goal with 22 seconds left in the half', the Wildcats led by just two at the break. 
When play resumed, Notre Dame picked up right where it left off, scor­ing 2:55 into 

GREGORIAN CHANT FOR PASSION SUNDAY 

SCHOLA MUSICORUM 
9:30P.M. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005 
fUYFS ORCAN AN[) CHORAL HAlL f\1,\1\11 I' DriiAilH>f.l'! Cf'NIH\ Hll\ T'IH I·'U\f01\~11Nti l\1\f\ 

side-armed shot to the top left corner. 
"One of the good things we did was ... to force them into a slump," McKinney said. "When we had the ball, we were scoring." 
After that run, though, the Irish would score just two goals the rest of tho way, and Northwestern would find its offensive spark. 
After failing to score for ovnr sixteen minutes of' play, 
: ERASMUS BooKs : • Used Books bought and sold : • 25 Categories of Books •• 25,000 Hardback and : Paperback books in stock : • Out-of-Print search service 
'• Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday .1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
FlU r AND Ol'tN lfl rtH. l'lJIIIIC
UNIVERSITY OF 
IWJ;I'f\ 1\H).liii\H) ADEBARTOLO
NOTRE DAME 
I'Ht)Nf. ~74·6.11 .'~Oil fl)R IICKf 1\ ~ Pf~~MING ARTS CENTrR
llf..P.\IITMKNT Of Mti"'.IC 

"That's obviously somothing that we wanted to avoid," McKinney said. "Not getting position aftnr the draws put a lot of pressure on thn defense." 
For the remainder of the game, the Wildeats would ·play ball eontrol and drain tlw 
dock. 
"It was real­

the half "Not getting position ly frustrating and keeping boeause that
after draws puts a lot of
the Wildcats' was when wn offense at bay pressure on the needed the until the Irish defense." ball most, but had tied it ... you don't with another want to loavo
Caitlin McKinney 
Foote goal, open girls," this time on a Irish mldfielder MeKinnoy 
said. 

By the tirnn there was just 2:30 lol'l in the game, Northwestern had expanded its lead to 17-10, 
and  the  outeome  was  no  
longer in doubt.  
Tho  Irish  will  look  to  

rebound over brnak with throe gamos against formidable foes -Cornell, Vanderbilt and James Madison. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

.-----------------------­


OUND THE NATION 
page 16 ColvH'I LED FROM THE 0BSERVEftS WIRE SERVICES Friday, March 4, 2005 

NBA 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic 
team record perc. last 10 GB Boston 30-28 .517 6·4 0.0 Philadelphia 27-30 .474 4-6 2.5 New Jersey 26·32 .448 5-5 4.0 Toronto 24-33 .421 4-6 5.5 New·vork 24·33 .421 6-4 5.5 
Eastern Conference, Central 
team reeord perc. last 10 GB Detroit 36-19 .655 9-1 0.0 Cleveland 31-25 .554 4·6 5.5 Chicago 29-25 .537 7-3 6.5 Indiana 28·28 .500 6·4 8.5 Milwaukee 23·32 .418 6·4 13.0 
Eastern Conference, Southeast 
team record perc. last 10 GB Miami 42·16 .724 8·2 0.0 Washington 32-24 .571 5·5 9.0 Orlando 29·27 .518 4·6 12.0 Charlotte 12-43 .218 2·8 28.5 Atlanta 10-47 .175 0·10 31.5 
Western Conference, Northwest 
team record perc. last 10 GB Seattle 40-16 .714 7-3 0.0 . Denver 28-29 .491 7-3 12.5 Minnesota 28-30 .483 4·6 13.0 Portland 22-33 .400 3·7 17.5 Utah 20-37 .351 4·6 20.5 
Western Conference, Pacific 
team record perc. last 10 GB Phoenix 43·14 .754 7·3 0.0 Sacramento 36·23 .610 H 8.0 LA Lakers 28·28 .500 4·6 14.5 L.A. Clippers 26·32 .448 3-7 17.5 Golden State 17·40 .298 4·6 26.0 
Western Conference, Southwest 
team record perc. last 10 GB San Antonio 44·13 .772 7~3 0;0 Dallas 38·18 .679 7-3 5.5 Houston 33·25 .569 6-4 11:5 Memphis 32·25 .561 5·5 12.0 New Orleans 12·45 .211 4·6 32.0 
College Softball Big East Conference 
team conf. overall 
Syracuse 0·0·0 4-2·0 
Villanova 0·0·0 7-5·0 
Boston College 0·0·0 6-6·0 
Providence 0·0·0 1•1·0 
St. John's 0·0·0 5-5·0· 
NOTRE DAME 0·0·0 5-6·0 
Seton Hall 0·0·0 4·5·0 
Pittsburgh 0·0·0 3-7·0 
Connecticut 0·0·0 1·3·0 
Rutgers o-o~o ·o-5-o 
College Baseball Big East Conference 
team 
conf. overall Rutgers 0·0·0 4·1·0 Villanova 0·0·0 4·1-1 NOTRE DAME 0·0·0 4•3"0 Pittsburgh 0·0·0 2·2·0 Georgetown 0·0·0 3-4·0 St. John's 0·0·0 3·4·0 Connecticut 0·0·0 1·2·0 West Virginia 0·0·0 2·5·0 Seton Hall 0·0·0 1·5·0 Boston College 0·0·0 0·4·0 

around the dial 
NBA 
Kings at Heat, 8 p.m. ESPN Mavericks at Lakers,10:30 p.m. ESPN 
TENNIS 2005 Davis Cup First Round, 4 p.m. ESPN2 
NHL 


Associated Press 
BOSTON -Two Boston companies have offered NHL owners a way out of their labor woes: Sell the entire league -pucks, Penguins and penalty boxes -for more than $3 billion. 
Bain Capital Partners LLC and Game Plan LLC made the proposal on Tuesday in New York, where NHL owners were meeting to discuss their next step in the lockout that canceled the entire 2004-05 season. The offer received an icy welcome. 
"I don't think it's realis­tic, and I don't think there's much interest, and I know there's no interest on the part of the Bruins," said Jeremy Jacobs, whose Delaware North Cos. owns the Boston team, its build­ing, part of its TV broad­caster and the concession contracts for several NHL clubs. "And I think it takes 30 [team owners] to do it." 

The Toronto Star and Globe and Mail reported Thursday that NHL com­missioner Gary Bettman invited the two Boston companies to present the offer. If accepted, the league would become a single entity, an ownership structure where most deci­sions are dictated by the central office and the teams have the autonomy of a fast food franchise. 
Sports leagues structured in that way -Major League Soccer and the WNBA among them ­have been able to avoid some antitrust scrutiny in the courts, and that can translate into greater power in labor negotia­tions. 
Steve Ross, a sports law professor at the University of Illinois Law School, said courts would want to examine whether the new arrangement stifled com· petition. 
"If some investment firm wanted to buy Ford and General Motors and Honda and Toyota, that would be illegal," he said. "I think that would be a huge prob­lem for them." 
Mired in a lockout since Sept. 16, the NHL last month became the first major North American pro sports league to cancel an entire season. The league has said its teams have lost a collective $500 million over the past two seasons. 
Before the work stop­page, the total value of the 30 NHL franchises was estimated by Forbes Magazine at $4.9 billion. The Detroit Red Wings topped the list at $266 mil­lion, with the Edmonton Oilers last at $86 million. 
A bigger problem is that, by selling their hockey team, owners who also own their buildings or net­works might be selling off the synergy that makes the whole thing profitable. 
IN BRIEF 

Buffalo defensive tackle "That makes us significantly better ings on baseball's response to the signs with Vikings ~gainst the run," Tice said. steroid scandal, said they don't know MINNEAPOLIS -The Minnesota House committee invites if the players will agree to attend. 
Vikings wasted little time addressing Canseco to testify Commissioner Bud Selig has also their defensive needs, agreeing to · WASHINGTON -Former slugger been invited. terms with veteran defensive tackle Jose Canseco and several players he Owens among three Eagles 
Pat Williams late Wednesday night. has accused of joining him in abus­to undergo surgery Williams agreed to a three-year ing steroids have been invited to tes­PHILADELPHIA -Wide receiver deal worth $13 million, with a $6 tify before a House committee. Terrell Owens was among three million signing bonus. "There's a cloud over baseball, and members of the NFC champion 
Williams spent the first eight years perhaps a public discussion of the Philadelphia Eagles to undergo suc­of his career in Buffalo, where he issues, with witnesses testifying cessful offseason surgery, the team became one of the NFL's best run­under oath, can provide a glimpse of revealed Thursday. 
stoppers. He'll line up next to Pro sunlight," said Rep. Tom Davis, R­Owens, who put forth a heroic Bowl defensive tackle Kevin Williams Va., chairman of the House effort in the Eagles' 24-21 loss to the to form a stout tandem up the middle Government Reform Committee. New England Patriots in Super Bowl 
for the Vikings, who ranked 21st Davis and the top Democrat on the XXXIX on February 6, had the against the run and 28th overall on panel, Rep. Henry Waxman of screws in his left ankle removed by defense last season. California, announced Thursday that Dr. Mark Myerson in Baltimore. 
Vikings coach Mike Tice said they were inviting Canseco ahd six Owens suffered a broken fibula Thursday that the biggest advantage other former or active players, below the right knee and ligament to the signing is that it allows them including the New York Yankees damage to the ankle after being to play Kevin Williams, who has Jason Giambi and former St. Louis tackled from behind by safety Roy emerged as a young star, exclusively Cardinal Mark McGwire, to testify at Williams in a Dec. 19 game against at tackle rather than nose tackle, a March 17hearing. Dallas. Three days later, he had two where he would be easily double­A spokeswoman for Waxman, who screws and a plate inserted in the teamed. last week wrote Davis to urge hear-ankle by Myerson. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-

hiday, March 4, 2005 
Bouts 
continued from page 20 
succnssion of' punchns latnr snnt him staggnring to tho corner. t\ftpr hitting tlw eanvas a sneond tinw with blood drawn from his f'acn, Sorazin was not allowod to r.ontinun, onding llw shortest light of' thn night. 
1301b. 
Snnior .Jon ValnnzuPla l~stab­lislwd himspff' narly in his bout against Snnior .Joshua Odclson, 1~onnnding with a lnft to the body f'ollownd by a right to Uw faen that scornd him points oarly. t\ romhination latnr in llw round l'ollowod by nunwrous shots to tlw body put Vahmzunla in con­trol. OdPison rPspondod in the snwnd round, landing a loft to Valnnzunla's faco that drew blood. and was abln to llm~n him to thn ropns. Faligun sot in laln in tlw fight as both fightnrs litilnd to ronnnct with any substantial blows in llw third. Valonzuela's strnnglh narly gave him tho unanimous dndsion. 
In a holly conlostnd batlln, grad uatn student Dymylro "Fun Sizo" t\ponto wa<> vietorious over f'n~shman .Jamns Carlson in a split dndsion. Carlson wont on thn doliHJsivo in tho sneond trying to tin up Dymytro, and nvonlually snoaking a combination. Tho fightors tradnd combinations in tlw third, with Dyrnytro's right­loft-right soqwmee giving him tho win. 
Thomas (;oldrick usod a tnxt­hook lighting styln to nnwrgn vie­to rio us in unanimous fashion ovnr l'nllow sophomoro (;norge llay. Coldriek's repeated use of' a lnl't jab f'ollowod by a straight right scornd him tho hits neces­sary to tako eontrol. From thorn, hn usod his agility and quiekncss to avoid hiL<> from flay. 
In a battln of' nicknames, senior Bobort "SIHH~Inss" Maher was dol'natnd by sonior Miehael ";\ Bnading from thn Book of' tho l'rophnt" Foduska. Foduska was ablo to land high-low combina­tions. Fmluska's combination of' h~ft jabs and straight righL<> land­ml snvnral pundws, one opening a wound on Malwr's head. F1Hiuska worn out Mahnr and mowd into the semilinals. 
1401b. 
Sophomoro t\ndrnw McGill del'l~atnd rn~shman l.awrenee "Sully" Sullivan by unanimous dndsion. t\l'tnr a series of straight rights to the head followed by a loft uppnrcut, McGill usml his jab to snat up a powerful right. t\ right landod in tlw soeond that lnl't Sullivan grabbing his shoul­dnr. l>nspit(~ a valiant nll'ort in thn third, "Sully" could not overcome the stnmhrt.h of' Me<;ill, evontually losing his mouthpieen, and later, tlw match. 
.Junior Mikn MeCann took out senior Timothy "The Irish Fronzy" MeKonzie at 1:40 into tlw soeond round. McCann put MeKnnzie on his heals early, using a right jab, loft, then right upporeut combination to send Mr.Konzio to tho (~anvas oarly. t\ similar 1~ombination in the second sont McKonzie to a knno, lim~ing the n~l'oron to stop tlw fight. 
t\ l'ast-paend bout saw junior Will "Tho Thrill" Bozouska defeat sophomore John "Bravo Little Toastm·" Cyeon by unanimous ch~cision. Bozouska drew blood !'rom Cycon in the l'irst round with a lnl't and usnd his lnl't jab throughout tho light to control tho action. "Tho Thrill" usod his patontnd 11111 to opon thn cut sev­eral limns, ovormming a count­w~ous nll'ort from Cynm. 
t\ dose light saw sophomore Miduwl I hmnig doli~at snnior Jon "I Wouldn't Want to Fight Mo 1\itlwr" Stroit by a split dndsion. Slrnit avoidnd damage in the lirsl round dospite bning driven into tho eorner twiee early. Hennig saw a greater percentage of his punches land in the second, espe­cially toward the end of the round. Hennig's left-right-lel't combination sealnd his victory oarly in the third. 
1501b. 
Nathan "The Bonzai Kitten" 
Lohmyer defnated Patriek 
O'Brhm in a unanimous decision. 
Lohmyer's exporinnee was nvi­
dnnt as ho usnd his left jab to set 
up righl'i to the body and head. t\ 
punishing right hook late scaled 
tho dm:ision for Lohmyer. 
l.ohmyor's semilinal opponent will bn Clayton "The Texas Tieklnr" Lougeo al't.nr the sopho­morn seorod a split dedsion vic­lory ovor sophomore Zachary Jara. In a match that fnatured solid punching soquenees on both sidos, Lougee's ability to set up his right was tlw di(l(mmce as he sealed tho win with a loft-right combination in the third. 
Sophomorn .Jordan Hunge advanced to tho somis on thn hnals of a dominatn victory over graduate studont Guillermo Tijerina. Hungn attacked early, using a jab combination to back Tij1~rna against the ropes, l(m:ing the rnferec to intervene. A big right 12 seconds into tho seeond lnl't Tijerna daznd and unable to answnr thn 10 count, giving Hungn the win. 
Hunge will face senior Tim lluml in the semifinals after lluml dnl(mtnd sophomore Brian Tyrrell in a unanimous dedsion. Aller bning knocked down early in the first following a right-left combination from Tyrell, lluml methodically took control of' the bout. lin used a li1ur-punch com­bination to assnrl himself l'ol­lownd by a hugo right that sont Tyrrell !lying to the canvas. The lightnrs tradnd big punches in the third, leaving both bloody, but lluml vietorious li11lowing a deei­sivn lin1r punch mmbination just bel'orn thn boll. 
1551b. 
The opening mateh at the 155 lb. levnl saw sophomore Bryan (;rissinger come out firing in a attempt to knock oil' senior Mike l'anziea. Grissinger landed sever­al punches .early, but the more nxporinneed Panzica weathered the storm, taking control late in the second. With Grissinger tirnd, l'anziea seized the opportu­nity, landing a right-lel't combina­tion that knocked down Grissinger and gave Panzica a unanimous doeision. 
In a similar bout, graduate stu­dent Brian Weldon defeated sophomore Stephen "Wiggles" llutehings in a unanimous deei­silm. llutchings's punches had Weldon on the run early, but Woldon responded with right-left combinations that backed llutehings into a corner twiee in the third round. 
Sophomore Chl"is Calderone advanced by defeating Paul Hagan, driving the junior into the eorner early with a left jab fol­lowod by a right. Calderone had Ilagan against the ropes in the second as well, using a similar combination. Though he was unable to land tho uppercut, it put !lagan on the defensive and allowed for Calderone's unani­mous win. 
Bnhind a largn fan base, senior Galnn Loughrey was victorious ovnr Mikn Hoonny. Hooney was active narly, using his jab cfTcc­tivnly and rnsponding to blows to thn head with a flurry of punches. The match took a deeisive turn whnn Loughrey opened a cut on Hooney's head during a left-right combination at tho end of the second. Loughrey continually opennd this eut in tho third and us1~d his powerful punches to onwrgn vietorious. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer11@nd.edu 

The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Golen, Christoforetti advance 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 
Aftor a slow first round, junior Mark Basola of Keough landed a string of combos against graduate stu­dent Jeff Christol'oretti in the first 160-pound elass fight. The stellar third round secured a unanimous win for Basola. 
Sophomore Adam Burns of Zahm soeured an automatic spot in the somil'inals due to a pre-match injury to Billy Henderman. 
In the next l'ight, sopho­more Preston "The Punch Thrower" Carter of Carroll stormed out like a hurricane in the l'irst round against junior Daniel Liem of Morrissey. Tho vietory, how­ever, went to Liem after Carter sul'fered a broken nose in the soeond round. 
Senior Bobby Gorynski wasted no time and came out a g gross i v e I y in h is milte h against senior Tim Uhalde. Using his quickness to gel inside on Uhalde, Gornyski prevailed in a unanimous deeision. 
1651b. 
Senior Mark "Hambo" Desplintor had no intentions of a long light against fresh­man Michael "Tyson" Thompson of Keenan. With a flurry of' eombos, Desplintor gained the victory with a technical knockout in the first round. 
Senior Patrick "No Tomorrow" McMorrow of O'Neill overcame the longer reaeh of senior Chase Heaton by landing key inside punch­es. McMorrow continued to dominate on the way to a unanimous decision. 
Graduate student Brian "Huggy Boy" Nicholson faeed off against Senior Chris "Count of Mon to Fisto" Milliron in an extondod l'ight. Blood was drawn repeatedly until tho fight was stopped in the second round giving the victory to Nicholson. 
In the next fight, senior Colin Kerrigan of' Fisher 


eamo up against junior Jeff Schaal of Morrissey. Kerrigan gained a unanimous victory after a strong third round. 170 lb. 
Senior Justin "Fleece" Alanis got off to a slow start against sophomore Tom Digan of O'Neill but that all changed in tho seeond round. Alanis knocked down Digan tw(ce with devastating jabs that ended the l'ight in a teehnieal knockout in the second round. 
Senior Brad Wanehulak of' Siegfried and graduate stu­dent Matt "Touch Me and I'll Sue You" Smith wagod one the most elosely contested bouts. In the end, Wanchulak used vicious lel't hooks to record the split deeision vie­tory. 
Junior Andrew "Goes Down Frazier" Breslin only needed a l'ew well plaeed left hooks to take down freshman Guy Hippleheuser of Carroll. Early in the first round, the 
match was halted giving Breslin tl11~ noarly l'lawlnss victory. 
Sophonwrn Dan Ward of St. Edward's jumpn d off' to a quiek start in his fight against snnior Craig Thompson. Ward knpt his momentum to seorn thn unanimous vietory ovn1· Thompson. 
180 lb. 
Senior Miehanl Schmind failnd to repnl thn vieious insido punches from senior .lim "Whern Did the Day Go" Christof'oretti, who won in a unanimous decision. 
Junior Jel'f' Golen of Alumni fought evenly with junior Nieholas Klein of' Morrissey for tho first two rounds. In tho third round, (;oltm made an aggressive push to earn a unanimous win. 
In the next light, freshman Mikn Hcilly of Fisher gained thn edge in the first round but failed to hold off senior Dana Collins with ferocious combos to win in a split dnc.i­sion. 
Graduate student Doug "Sudden Death" Bartels knpt in mind quality not quantity in his fight against sopho­more Stu Stypula of O'Neill. Bartels landed heavy jabs on his way to a unanimous vie­tory. 
190 lb• 
After ga1n1ng an narly advantage, freshman Patrick Hyan of' Keenan eould not hold ol'f the swnnping hooks of' junior Chris "Youngblood" /\dams of Knough. In a dosn split decision, /\dams canw through with tho win. 
.Junior Chris Cavanaugh of Morrissey fully nxploitnd his !wight advantage against senior John "Stiteh" Hughes of' Siegfried. Thn fight was cndnd in the third round to give Cavanaugh a trip to tlw somilinals. 
Sophomorn Andy "l>oogip" llouser of Alumni controllnd the initial pace of' his fight against graduate studnnt William Zizie. 
After a slow start, Zizic took over in tho third round and gained thn win in a tech­nical knockout. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 4, 2005 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
"I think the Seton Hall game took us by surprise," McGraw said. "But then to look and say, 'That's as bad as we can play, and we still won.' that has to give us a little more confi­dence." 
No. 9 Rutgers (23-5, 14-2 Big East) won the regular season conference title outright, and No. 14 Connecticut (20-7, 13-3) finished third. The Irish won the tiebreaker with the Huskies after the two split the season series. 
The fourth place team, No. 22 Boston College, knocked off the Huskies once this year, and Notre Dame beat the Eagles twice, giving them the edge. As a result, the Irish will play either seventh-seeded West Virginia (16-11, 7 -9) or tenth­seeded Pittsburgh {13-14, 5­11). Notre Dame has beaten both by sizable margins this season. 
However, for Notre Dame, winning games in the Big East tournament has been challeng­ing. Last year's No. 2 seed dropped its first round game to Rutgers, 51-45, after relin­quishing a 17-2 lead. In 2003, the Irish lost in the second round to Villanova as a No. 6 seed. 
"This team, this group, has not won a lot of games in the Big East tournament," McGraw said. "It's something that at the beginning of the year was one of our goals to do a lot better at. I think it's a stepping stone to the NCAA tournament-you want to be peaking right now." 
The Irish, whose 25-4 overall record is the second-best in McGraw's tenure, have a lot to be happy about thus far this season. However, McGraw doesn't want her team to be too complacent. 
"We've put ourselves in great position," she said. "We have a lot to be happy about, but we have a lot of work to do yet. You want to pat them on the back and say it's been great, but let's not get carried away because there are still some games to play." 
The Big East tournament kicks off ~aturday, when the Irish will find out who their opponent is. Then they play the winner Sunday evening, and if they win their first game, they could face No. 3 seed Connecticut Monday. your season's not over, so 


"You've got to be ready to there's not quite the same play a great team every night," pressure." McGraw said. "And we're well Tip-off for the Notre Dame prepared because we played game is 6 p.m. Sunday at the all the top teams twice, so our Hartford Civic Center, the site 
· strength of schedule has been of last year's tournament. really good, our RPl has been Notes: really good. So it's an opportu­+ McGraw was named one of nity -it's one and done, but 20 finalists for the Nais~ith 
Coach of the Year award Thursday. McGraw is in her 18th season at the· helm of the Irish and 
won  the award in 2001  when  
Notre  Dame  won  its  first  
national championship.  

Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Trip 
continued from page 20 
Tuesday is a travel day as the team makes the trip to San Antonio for the Notre Dame Baseball Classic. 
The field consists of Texas-San Antonio, Southwest Missouri State and Oral Hoberts. , The tourney takes place Wednesday through Saturday at Wolff Stadium. 
With a close 3-1 loss to Hice and a tough 4-1 victory over Texas San-Antonio, Texas A&M sits at 9-4 and comes off a 2-0 sweep of Evansville. 
The showdown with Rice (11-2) marks the first time the squads will meet each other since an elimination game in the 2002 College World Series -a game which ended in dramatic fashion on a Brian Stavisky two-run, walk-off home run for the Irish. 
Notre Dame won the barn­burner 5-3, in what was named an ESPN Top Ten moment in CWS history. 
While Texas State (10-4) might not be a nationally­known powerhouse or have the star-studded lineups of Hice or A&M, the Bobcats are a feisty group. 
They proved they can com­pete with the college base­ball's top teams when they knocked off the Aggies last year in College Station 1-0 and competed with Hice and LSU for three straight games apiece. 
Texas-San Antonio (0-11) poses a threat for an upset. They faced Texas A&M ear­lier this season and fell short 4-1. The Hoadrunners desperately need their first win after playing a brutal early season schedule. 
Southwest Missouri State (2-5) has struggled early this season, but the Bears look to start a win streak after a win against Kansas and a series against Iowa. SMS went to the College World Series in 2003 follow­ing a strong performance in the Missouri Valley Conference. 
Ranked in the preseason, 
the Oral Roberts Golden Eagles own a 6-3 record, including solid wins against Baylor and South Alabama. 
The potent Irish offense averages eight runs per game. 
Junior shortstop Greg Lopez tops the team with a .421 batting average, and freshman third baseman Ross Brezovsky leads the pack with 12 hits. 
Freshman pitcher Joey Williamson (0-1) leads the pitching staff with a 1.69 ERA and six strikeouts. Workhouse Tom Thornton has carried the load with 11 innings pitched and a 1-0 record. 
No game in the next eight days warrants a letdown. 
Whomever the opponent, the Irish take the field against seven of the tough­est baseball teams in the country. 
The tests for the Irish come over the break. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
Busy 
continued from page 20 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "But at the same time, when we show up and play our best game, we can also beat anyone." 
In Loyola Marymount, the Irish face an opponent they have already seen once this year. The Lions crushed Notre Dame 7-0 in their lirst game of the Palm Springs Classic on Feb. 25. 
"I don't have to tell our girls anything before those games Sunday," Gumpf said. "That game [against Loyola in Palm Springs] was a slap in the face to our girls -a really embar­rassing loss. Our girls know what to do now to beat Loyola, and if they don't show up this weekend it will be their own fault." 
One reason for Notre Dame's slow start to the season has been a weak offense. The Irish as a team are currently hitting just .232, well below their .278 

average of last season. Pitchers Heather Booth and Steffany Stenglein have done an admirable job in dealing with the lack of offense, with Booth holding a 2.13 ERA and Stenglein maintaining a 2.16 ERA with 46 strikeouts. 
One exception to Notre Dame's sputtering offense has been Player of the Year candi­date Megan Ciolli. Ciolli leads the team in all offensive cate­gories, including RBis (eight). batting average (.382), hits 
(13) and stolen bases (five). 
"Megan will always be a good player on this team as long as she doesn't try to do it all," Gumpf said. "When she tries to do it all, that's when she can run into trouble. She's a very talented player but she also has the ability to make things happen. 
"She's so fast that she forces teams into a lot of errors, and then she can wreck havoc on the bases. If she puts the ball in play anywhere, she's dead­1y. " 
Gumpf made some .changes to the team's lineup after Notre Dame's early struggles at the Palm Springs Classic, moving several players to dif­ferent positions. Sara Schoonaert was shifted from second base to shortstop. while Mallorie Lenn moved back to catcher from designat­ed player. With Schoonaert's shift to shortstop, both sopho­more Stephanie Brown and freshman Katie Laing will see action at second base. 
"At that point I was ready to do anything," Gumpf said. ''I'm going to do whatever it takes to get this team SOI.Ile momen­tum. I want to put the bat in the hands of the girls who are hot, and if the girls aren't get­ting it done on defense, then I'm taking them out." 
Upon returning home after spring break, the Irish will have just one more road tour­nament -March 19-20 in Columbus, Ohio -before play­ing their first home game of the season against Western Michigan March 23. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


~ ~ 

Friday, March 4, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
DILBERT 
IN E.LBONIA 
I'M FROM AMERICA AND I'M HE.R.E. TO FIX ALL OF YOUR. PROBLEMS. 

PEANUTS 
THEY' SAY THAT A BALL 

DROPPED FROM WAIST 1-lEIGHT 
WILL ~IT TI-lE GROUND AT A SPEED OF 9.45 MILE5 PER HOUR 
YOUR. ARROGANCE. IS OFFENSIVE.. WE. WILL FORM AN AR.ME.D RESISTANCE. AND FIGHT YOU TO THE. E.ND OF TIME.! 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IT'S JUST SOMETHING WE. DO. 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
SO, INSTEAD OF PITCHING IT, Wl-l'f' DON'T '(OU JUST DROP IT? 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
rJ 
1 
Cl2005 Tribune Madia Services, Inc. 

[·~~r~ 
~~til~
I 

TULJYS WHAT THE: TRAIN£:!<
t 

V" 'i ~ GAVE: THE: GREY­
I. ~ A _ A HOUND DURING 
www.Jumble.com HIS MORNING 
ELLBOW I WORKOUT. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as[ J I [ J suggested by the above cartoon.
'----"~~---'"---L-~.....::.J 
Answer here: 

A rI I J..rI I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: IDIOT FINIS QUAVER PUSHER Answer: What the kids faced after dinner-A "DISH·PUTE" 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  22 Earth-scanning  42 Rouyn·_,  
1 Heavy overcoat  satellites, e.g. 24 Certain  city and county of Quebec  
7 Pet that's likely to purr  furniture ensembles  43  Last Stand  
13 Wandering rogues, as in Cervantes stories 15 Tax max.  25 Indian author _Mehta, a staff writer for The New Yorker for more than 30 years  44 Small laugh 45 Ancient Spartan magistrates 46 Has the wheel  
16 It hangs over the ocean  26 Occult sciences,  DOWN  
11 Prince Land (historical Canadian region that  collectively 34 Little-seen examples  1 Surprise at the polls 2 Certain  
drains into Hudson Bay) 18 Movie preview, e.g. 19 Having a knack for  36 Cubist Leger 37 Ate quickly, slangily 39 Big name in auto parts  claimant 3 Beat it 4 Trail (Everglades highway)  
20 One way of 40 Not suitable for seasoning passing 21 Some card 41 Revel without players restraint ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  5 Explorer from ca. A.D. 1000 6 Floral ornament 7 Crescendos 8 Play the peacemaker 9 Plan in  23 Keeps in print, in a way 26 Not very cushiony 27 Automaker  29 Kitchen gizmos 30 Producers of major reports 31 Be willed 32 Amount  33 Gallimaufry 34 Get back 35 One going to the post office  
advance  Maserati  deducted from  
10 Former first family  28 Make further modifications  the price of goods to compensate  36 Ridiculous sham  
11 Perfume  to  for· loss  38 Kind souls  
ingredients  

12 Lab work For answers, call 1·900·285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800·814-5554. 
14 They're often 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundayfound near crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. busy Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000intersections 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 15 Bookstore Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young books solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
.Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two eampusns. Please eomplete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CEtEBRITIES BORN ON THIS HAY: Jesska Biel, 23; Jackie Joyner· 
Kersce.43; Herschel Walker. 43; Mary Page Keller, 44 
Ha1>PY Birthday: You will have a lot on your plate this year, managing your personal and professional life. This is not the year to rely on others or to expect any handouts. If you work hard. you will reap the rewards: if you pass the huck. you will lose. Your numhers arc 5, II, 27, 34, 39,46 
ARIES (March 21·April19): You can do well if you arc on the move and eager 
to get things done. Your ability to take control and problem-solve will lead to 
an opportunity you least expect. Don't be too trusting. ***** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Money matters may be a problem, especially · 
those involving lending or borrowing. Hold tight and refrain from making any 
llnancial or legal decisions. Travel will bring you greater insight into decisions 
for the future. *** 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Focus on what you want to do. There will be no 
point in arguing with someone you know won't hudgc. Change is imminent. ** 
CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): You will be able to COf!Vince others that your 
ideas are sound. Listen to what people have to say and utilize the advice given 
to make your current projects that much better. *** 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): You will be into having some fun today. A good friend 
will give you something that surprises you. Take the opportunity to make a 
personal change that will update your looks. Love relationships will flourish 
today. 5 .VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Stay low-key today. You will get far more 
accomplished working by yourself on something that you know inside and out. 
Difficulties will arise if you disagree with someone you are close to. Protect your 
reputation. ** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stay calm and keep things cheerful, and you will 
avoid some of the trivial troubles that are going on around you. Follow your own 
best interests and use your intelligence to avoid mishaps. Love is in the picture. 
**** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may want to make a change in how you make your living, but it is hest to sit tight. Do a little research into the possibilities for now. Someone may cost you money or lead you down the wrong llnancial path if you aren't on top of your game. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be overly emotional today, so prepare to step back and let some of the little comments made by others go. Someone you depend on is likely to become upset if you are too demanding. Remember that sharing is important. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will not be able to trust even your closest friend to keep a secret today. You are also likely to say something that should not be repeated. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. IH): You may feel the need to make changes that will affect your future. Don't hesitate to take a uni4ue route to increase your ability to eam.moncy. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may he disappointed if you rely on others. This is not the day to be a chameleon. Everyone else will he looking out for his or her own interests, and it's important that you do the same. ** 
Hirthday Baby: You arc eager to please. hut if you don't get your way, you can be difficult. You are a dreamer, an inventor and a master of persuasion. You arc dedicated and loyal, and you stick to your heliefs. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ____________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, March 4, 2005 
page 20 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Big East bound 
Second-seeded Irish travel to Connecticut for annual tournament 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Last year at this time, Notre Dame was 5-7 on the road. Losses at Seton Hall, Georgetown and West Virginia put a damper on the Irish's second place finish in the Big East. 
But this season, the No. 10 Irish are 11-2 on the road going into the Big East tourna­ment, having found a way to beat good teams on the road. Notre Dame even defeated Connecticut in Storrs, Conn., 65-59, on Jan. 30 to snap the Huskies' 112-game home Big East winning streak. 
"We've played so much bet­ter on the road," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "And the upperdassmen have really led that because of their maturity -making it the same every Above, guard Charel Allen time. trying to get them to 
focus. drives against Georgetown. "I think we're in a pretty good routine on the road right At right, guard Breona Gray now, so it's been good." 
defends Georgetown's
Notre Dame finished second in the Big East after Tuesday's Bethany LeSueur. ugly 41-35 win at Seton Ilall moved them to 13-3 in the conference -the victory was Notre Dame's twelfth in its last 
• 
13 games. PHOTOS BY 
see BIG EAST/page 18 GEOFF MATTESON 



BASEBALL 

Tea111 set for long Texas trip 
ND slated to play 7 games in 8-day trip over spring break 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 

After a 1-2 series against Dayton last weekend, the Notre Dame baseball team takes its high-powered offense to Texas for spring break in search of a few statement wins against the nation's elite. 
The Irish travel to the Lone Star State for seven games in the next eight days. 
Saturday at 8 p.m. the Irish square off against the No. 15 Texas A&M Aggies in the opening game of the Round Hock College Classic at 12 ,000-seat Dell Diamond. 
The No. 10 Rice Owls, who have yet to leave the state of Texas this season, await the Irish for a 7 p.m. Sunday matchup. 
To finish up the Classic, the Irish take on the Texas State Bobcats on Monday. 
see TRIP/page 18 

BENGAL BOUTS 
Quarters fights completed 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 

An exciting night of Bengal Bouts quart!Jrfinal action opened with the 126 lb. weight class and a leadoff fight featuring junior Peter Sarpong and sophomore Sager Navere. 
Sarpong gained the upper hand late using his left jab and right hook to land shots to Navere's body and head, opening a gash late in the third round. Sarpong was able to block a majority of Navere's punches, giving him the split decision win. 
In one of the most dominating performances of the evening, freshman Steve Buchanan need­ed only 1:10 to take out fresh­man Nate Serazin. Combinations of left jabs and right hooks sent Serazin to the canvas early, and a 
see BOUTS/page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish have full slate scheduled for break 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 

The Irish might not be going on any cruises with buffets, but they've still got a full plate for spring break this season. 
Notre Dame (5-6) will trav­el to Los Angeles for a dou­bleheader against Loyola Marymount Sunday and remain in California for a single-game match-up against California-Santa Barbara Monday. The Irish 
• then will trek across the Pacific Ocean to take part in the University of Hawaii's Spring Fling Tournament in Honolulu. 
The tournament runs from Mar. 9-12 and will include games against Campbell, Hawaii, Virginia and Nevada. 
Notre Dame didn't have much suecess on its last trip to California and will look to fare better this weekend. Last weekend, the Irish trav­eled to Palm Springs to par­ticipate in the Palm Springs Classic, dropping their first four games at the tourna­ment. 
But the Irish finished on a positive note, knocking off No. 5 Tennessee 5-2 Sunday in Notre Dame's final game of the tournament. 
"Anytime you lose to teams that are unranked and then beat a team ranked No. 5, it shows that when we don't focus we can lose to anyone," 
see BUSY/page 18 

MEN'S LACROSSE 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

FENCING
WOMEN'S TRACK 
HOCKEY 
w 
C-' Notre Dame at 
Wildcats 18 
Boiler-Make-It 
Midwest

Alex Wilson 
Notre Dame at 
Irish 11
z Cornell 
Invitational 

Invitational 
Regionals 
Michigan State 
s Notre Dame can't = Saturday, 1 p.m. 
keep up with No. 3 
Sunday, 11 a.m. 

Friday-Saturday 
Saturday-Sunday 
Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
Northwestern in first
The Irish travel to 
Sophomore Ted 

The Irish welcome 
The Irish journey to 
The Irish travel to 
~ 
loss of season. 
New York for tough test 
Brown looks to set 

multiple schools to 
Detroit to begin postsea-
East Lansing to take on 
!;: against the Big Red. 
record at Invitational. 

Loftus Friday at 7 p.m. 
son Saturday at 9 a.m. 
the Spartans. 
page 15
page 15 
page 14 
page 13 

page 12 
page 12 




