
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 94 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18,2005 
Malloy focuses on final semester 

Community leaders to honor Malloy's history of charity with fund raiser 

By KATIE PERRY 
News Wrirer 
Tho greater South Bend community will honor Univnrsity President Father Edward Malloy with a fund­raising tribute benefiting thr1111 local charities with strong tins to tho outgoing pn1sidm1t. 
In a gnsturn of appreciation for Malloy's 1S ynars of serv­kn at Notre Damn, South Bend community leaders organized "Michiana Salutes Monk," an honorary benefit to be held Marrh 3 at the Century Center in downtown South Bend. 
According to Dennis Brown, associate director of news and information, prominent local organizers of the event indude John Hosenthal, presi­dent of St. Joseph's Bank, and Mike Leep, owner of several South Bend automobile deal­erships. Politicians Steven Lunrke, mayor of South Bend, and former Indiana Gov. Joe Kernan also helped plan the benefit. 
The event will begin with a reception, followed by dinner and a program. 
Kernan, a '68 alumnus of Notre Dame, will serve as master of ceremonies. 
Proceeds from the tribute will benefit the Center of the llomeless, the Robinson Community Learning Center and the Boys and Girls Club of St. Joseph County. Hand­picked by Malloy, each organi­zation has shared a close rela­tionship with the president during his tenure at the University. 
Malloy founded the Center of the Homeless during his early years at Notre Dame. The organization has since set national precedents for other communities and their han­dling of the issue of homeless­ness. 
see CHARITIES/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Events go 'abroad' for annualJPW 
By JEN ROWLING News Wriler 

Parents hailing from all over thn country will arrivn on nun­pus today· lo takn part in t.Iw 53rd annual .Junior l'arPnls Wnnknncl. 
Thn .IPW commitlen has hnnn working since last April to plan thn traditionally nxtravagant 
t h (1 Ill ~~ d 
1wnnt. with .. Pas s p o r t See Also Abroad" as 
"'Lil' Sibs' come

this year's titln. to Saint Mary's" "Wn'rn giv­
pageB

ing the jun­iors a chance to get away from South B111HI, and somewhat honoring tlw sl.u­dnnts who arn studying abroad and can't makn it to tho nvnnt," 
sec JPW/page 6 

jUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND 
FRIDAY 

MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 

Administrators defend tuition hike policies 
University calls costs necessary, but students bristle at price raise 
l\y EILEEN DUFFY 
A~is1am News Ediwr 
As the University peels off the old $37,100 tuition sticker price and slaps on onn for $39,552, those who will dole out the monny are fnnling the sting. 
l>ireetor of Student Finaneial Services .Joseph Husso said there have been few negative reactions in the Financial Aid Officn thus far, but he antieipatns some in tlw future. 
"My gunss is that there surely will be lphonn ntllsl. not just from parents but from students and alurhni who might ask why our eosts are going up higher than the ratn of inflation," Husso said. 
Dirnctor ol' Univnrsity Budgoting Linda 
see TUITION/page 4 

Saint Mary's intends to hold future increases to four percent 
By NICOLE ZOOK Assistant News Ediwr 
With Notre Dame tuition for 2005-06 set to jump 7 pereent, Saint Mary's students face a lesser spike. 
Tuition at the College will increase 4 per­cent next year, a small amount compared to Notre Dame's $2,622 surge, said Laurin Sticknlmaier, vice president for finance and administration. 
Stickclmaier said Saint Mary's tuition ­not including room, board and other nxtra­neous fees -will rise from $22,922 to $23,838 for tlw next aeademic year. This represents a lessor increase from last year, when tuition rose 6 percent. Stiekelmainr said the College intends to eontinue with this 
see FREEZE/page 6 
' 

. 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, February 18, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE SMOOTHIE FLAVOR AND WHY? 
On the surface... 
Little did I know that yes, dis­traction can be found even in the secluded and dusty 13th floor of the library. I was soon distracted by the very table I was at -it pro­vided even better literature than that which was published on bath­room stalls of my former inner-city public high school. 
There is so much history-so many emotions etched into the wood surface. Each vandalizer leaves his or her 
mark, in hopes Desiree Zamora of becoming an 
eternal part of underground Graphics 
Notre Dame his­
tory, as an hon­est attempt at reaching out to the future generations to come to this very table or in hopes of achieving a work ethic, such as: 
The ever-present political cat­fight: "Bus!:t C!:toHey 'Q4 -> Kerry Edwards '04!" 
The love declaration: X <3's Y 
The obviously deep music lyric best remembered when in a melan­choly mood -oftentimes caused by such courses as calculus, mechanics and contemporary top­ics. 
Phone numbers, both real and fake, depending on the writer's bravery: because how are you supposed to meet your Domer soul• mate if' you sold your soul already to engineering? 
The. ever-philosophical question such as, "WHY let the dogs out?" 
ND logos, from the crudely scrib­bled to the "I did no studying what­soever" sort. 
The bashing of inferior schools, such as cough BostonCollege cough. 
Remnants of our dying language: "OmG nD is sO 1337x0rz! X-0-" The fearful ones will opt for this better, 21st century way of writing. The time slot for vandalism is safer when all words are abbreviated or substituted by numbers and pitied keys of the keyboard that are sel­dom used. 
Words of encouragement: "D is for degree." 
Let's not forget the Bible pas­sages -we are at a Catholic school, after all. 
Teacher reviews. A wooden table does not have a profanity filter like http://www.ndtoday.com. 
Or the default, "What's Her Face and So And So were HERE" or four-letter word. 
Nevertheless, it is an ever-chang­ing piece of furniture. Readers will look to read the fresh additions proudly showing off their recently etched selves, from the modest ballpoint pen message in the cor­ner to the obnoxious permanent marker prophecy that seeks to cover all the others. They all even­tually become one inky entity, seeping into each other, fading into the wooden past... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Desiree Zamora at dzamora@nd. edu • 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, the word "praying" was used incorrectly in a quote on page 3 ofrhe Feb. 17 edition ofThc Observer. The word "preying" should have appeared in its place. The Observer regrets the error. 





Pat O'Brien John Skakun Jenny Enright Leslie Kealhofer Alex Wutch Kristine Rosek 
freshman senior freshman junior freshman sophomore Fisher Keough Walsh Lewis Stanford Welsh Family 
"Strawberry -"Peach-"Orange "Strawberry -"Smoothie? "Smoothie #9 ... it tastes peaches are strawberry -rm addicted.,, What's that?" I think?" 


IN BRIEF 
The film National Treasure will be shown tonight at 8 and 10 p.m. in DeBartolo 101. The event costs $3 and is sponsored by the Student Union Board. 
NO Cinema will show the 2004 film ·"House of Flying Daggers" tonight' at 10 p.m. and again Saturday at 7 and 10 p.m. at the Browning Cinema. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band, Symphonic Band and Symphonic Winds will present a concert Saturday at 2:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall. Tickets are available in the DeBartolo Ticket Olliee. 
The Notre Dame Class of 2007 is sponsoring a Class Dinner and Bowling Night Saturday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at Beacon Bowl. 
"Shrek 2" will be shown at 7 
p.m. in Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's Saturday. The free event is sponsored by RHA and SAB. 
The Saint Mary's Music Department will present scenes from "Witness," an original opera composed by Professor Zae Munn, Sunday from 2:30 to 
4:30 p.m. in the Little Theater of Moreau Hall. 
Singer, songwriter and social activist Jen Chapin will be per­forming in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 
p.m. Sunday. The event is part of the SpringARTSfest: Tolerance and Reconciliation. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 
delicious.,, fuzzy.,, it's yummy!" 


Renowned Vatican II histo~ian Father Joseph Komonchak delivers a lecture on the history and significance of the Council Thursday evening in Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's. The talk was part of the College's year-long Vatican II anniversary celebration. 

OFFBEAT-­
Strip club artfully slips by antkludity laws 
BOISE -A strip club in Boise, Idaho has found an artful way to prance past a city law that prohibits full nudity. 
On what it calls Art Club Nights, the Erotic City strip club charges customers $15 (8 pounds) for a sketch pad, pencil, and a chance to see completely naked women dancers. 
"We have a lot of people drawing some very good pic­tures," said Erotic City owner Chris Teague, who has posted many of the drawings around the club. 
Teague said he got the 
TODAY 

a:: 
idea when a customer asked if he could get in for free to sketch the dancers. Realizing that "art classes" were exempt from the law, Teague decided to bill Mondays and Tuesdays as art nights, and let the dancers go without their G­strings and pasties. 
In the two months since they began, Art Club Nights have drawn full crowds of 60 people but no police cita­tions, he said. 
Rabbi rules it best to swal­low gum 
JERUSALEM -Your chewing gum has just lost its flavor, but there is no 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

LLI 
:c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
cr: 
(,) 



0 
...I HIGH 24 HIGH 33 LOW 18 LOW 24 

18 10 

HIGH LOW 
garbage can in sight. What do you do? According to Jewish law, get ready to swallow it. 
A prominent Israeli rabbi has ruled that spit­ting gum on a sidewalk or hiding it under a desk is a violation of Halacha or Jewish law, the Yediot Ahronot newspaper reported Thursday. 
"Gum cannot be thrown where others are liable to be disgusted by it," said Rabbi Shmuel Eliyahu, the rabbi of the holy city of Safed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Atlanta 31 I 74 Boston 28 I 16 Chicago 26 I 14 Denver 48 I 24 Houston 26 I 13 Los Angeles 64 I 52 Minneapolis 23 I 8 New York 33118 Philadelphia 35 I 19 Phoenix 67 I 53 Seattle 54 I 36 St. Louis 41 I 31 Tampa 70 I 46 Washington 48 I 26 
. \ .. 

Friday, February 18, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Historian focuses on Vatican II 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writrr 
Saint Mary's continund a year­long cnlnbration of the 40th annivt~rsary of thn conclusion of tlw Seeond Vatican Council by wnlcorning rnnownt~d Vatiean II historian Father Joseph Komonchak to campus Thursday nvnning. Komonchak, a professor of theology at the Catholie University of America in Washington, D.C., presented a lecturn nntitlnd "Vatican II: I lis tory and Signilkanetl." 
Komondmk bngan his presen­tation by noting the dilliculties of speaking about Vatican II to an audinnce whose parent.<> are not old enough to n~mmnbnr the Council. lin explained that he had firsthand information about thn Coundl, as hn studind at a snminary in Home during the two ynars leading up to the Council and during th11 first two Council snssions. 
"Thn fact that we undertake such cnlnbrations as this indi­call~s thn historical significance of tlw Council," hn said. "For better or worse, Vatican II rep­resented an epic shift in the his­tory of the Catholic Church. Precisely because something historic has occurred, it has become controversial." 
Komonchak said Pope John XXIII startled the Catholic world by announcing his plans to con­vene an ecumenical couneil. John XXIII was elected at age 77 to servn as a transitional pontificate after the long rnign of Pope Pius XII, but the new pope quickly became involved in a more significant transition in the Church. 
"The Pope proposed the Council as an occasion for spiri-· tual renewal in the chureh. This had very significant implica­tions, as it suggested that cer­tain Catholic ways of doing things wern no longer as appro­priate as they had once been," Komonchak said. 
Komonchak deseribed the developmnnt and politics of the Council throughout its four ses­sions. lie stressed the impor­tance of the 16 doeumnnts pre­sented at the Council and the changes they caused in the Church. 

"The Church became more open to self-examination, adopt­ed a far more nuanced attitude towards the modern world, and made the decision to validate the distinctiveness or local churches. These were three rev­olutionary dndsions," he said. 
Thn anniversary celebration of Vatican 11 began in November and will continue through October of next year. The next event will be held on March 30, when Kenneth Woodward, a contributing editor at Newsweek, will speak about his experiences reporting on the Council. 
"Programs offered through the College's Center for Spirituality will engage mem­bers of the College community, as wnll as intnrnsted individuals from all levels or academia, Church and soeiety in a dialogue about the impact of Vatican II," said Sister Kathleen Dolphin, director of the Center for Spirituality. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle 1 @nd.edu 
Irish Sports Report is your inside guide to all there is 
to know about Notre Dame sports. With exclusive photos, award­winning national writers and unmatched "on-the-ground" resources, Irish Sports Report provides insight you can't get anywhere else. For only $45.95 receive 21 comprehensive issues, published weekly during the football season, monthly after the season. In ·addition, our annual Notre Dame Football Preview is included. Irish Sports Report is a must-have subscription for all true -Irish sports fans. 
Saint Mary's welcomeS girls for Hypatia Day 
Seventh graders come to celebrate math 
be eneouragnd to continue 
By DANIELLE LERNER their studies in thesn areas, 
News Writer and that waiting to provide 
this encouragement until high 
Saint Mary's will welcome school is too latn," Connolly nearly 100 seven th-gradn said. "By then, many havn girls .from across Indiana as it madn ehoicns whieh dose thn hosts the 15th annualllypatia doors to the widn variety of 
Day on Saturday. Hypatia Day, named after the "J think it is first female 
important we
mathematician and scientist in encourage these history, aims to girls that learning reinforce girls' 
is fun too. " 
enthusiasm for math and sci­ence. Laura Ficker 
Mathematics junior chair, professor Mary Connolly, 
opportunities availabln to women who pur­sue math and sei­nnce." 
Although thn math departr111~nt sponsors the evnnt, students from the chem­istry, biology and nursing depart­ments will partic­ipate as wnll. 
stressed the importance of Attendnes, nominatnd by their this event. schools because of their intnr­"We know that girls who ests, abilitins and achieve­
love math and science nend to ments in math and scinnen, will partake in numnrous activities throughout the day. For nxarnpln, math sessions with Saint Mary's students aim to emphasize thn creativ­ity of geornntry through inter­active Origami exnrdsns. Junior rn ath rn ajor I. aura Fieknr said shn is looking for­ward to a day with partiei­pants. "I'm very exeited becausn it's going to be a fun day and it's always great to see young peoplo on campus." slw said. "I think it is important we encourage these girls that learning is fun too." The program also allows girls to attend active seience lab sessions alongside stu­dents. "A large number of Saint Mary's students are involved," Connolly said. "It gives our students an opportunity to offer real service to the out­side community." In what is perhaps the most important aspect of the pro­gram, participants learn about famous women in the math and seience fields through active role-playing activities. "Thn program gives Ithe participants! the view that math and seienee are things people aetually do," Ficker said. "They get to see how women, throughout history. have impaeted the world in these fields." The educational opportunity is not limited to tho girls alone. The College also hosts a panel for parents .intendod to offer support and guidance for their daug·hters' high school eu rrieulums. Many agree a women's col­lege is the perfect plaee for sueh an nvent. "A lot of girls arn intimidat­ed by math and scinncn," Fieker said. "It's important for girls to see that fnmales have opportunitins and sue­eess in thosn lin Ids." If past events are any in<li­eation of sueeoss, this yPar's llypatia Day is sure to bn a triumph. "The program has gone very well in years past," Connolly said. "Students and parents both enjoy the day and are grateful for the opportunities it affords." 
Contact Danielle Lerner at 
lern6311 @saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 18, 2005 
tion in the press," Kroll said, "but often do little to fund
Tuition 
daily operations." 

continued from page 1 Kroll said Notre Dame is 
ultimately trying to "move our 
Kroll said the decision to charge more in line with the raise tuition has been long in rates charged by peer the making. schools." Indeed, other major 
"The planning for the budg­universities are not cheap. In et for fiscal 2005-2006 begins the 2004-2005 school year, in the spring of 2004," she Harvard had a $39,880 said. "It is a very thorough tuition, room and board price process that involves detailed tag; Princeton's was $38,297. analysis of all of the major Georgetown, often compared factors that affect the to Notre Dame due to its University financially." Catholic mission, charged its 
These factors include students $40,492; "tuition, room and board lev­Northwestern, another mid­els, employee benefit costs western private school, asked [and] utility and insurance for $40,686. costs," Kroll said. Financial Aid 
Russo also defended the The question remains decision to raise tuition. He who or what will the tuition said the University is a hike benefit? "labor-intensive operation," "Student tuition and fee costing nearly $2 million a income provides nearly 60 day to keep things running percent of the total operating smoothly on campus. revenue for the University, so 
Like Kroll, Russo offered all costs of running Notre financial factors the Dame are supported by University considers, such as tuition in some amount," Kroll up-to-date technology, new said. "[We] don't earmark a books, maintaining the power specific revenue to a specific 
plant and retain- expense."  
ing and recruit­ing top-flight pro­fess.ors. Russo also stressed another cost -employee bene­fits. The cost of  "We are committed to looking every student in the eye and saying, Tes, we will meet your  However, the University desig­nated financial aid as the pri­mary beneficiary of the tuition hike. Since  
health care for Notre Dame rose  needs."'  1999, there has been a 39 per­ 
13 percent in the calendar year  Joseph Russo  cent increase in tuition ­but the  
2005,  and  the  director of student  University  has  
University's  financial services  increased  its  
finances  need  investment  in  
tuition to be able  financial aid by  

to cover these allowances, he 151 percent in that same time said period, Russo said. "Those benefits have to be In its admissions process, met," Russo said. the University operates on a 
Although Notre Dame is "need-blind" basis; that is, flooded with outside financial the University does not base support, Kroll said much of its decision on a student's that money serves a different ability to pay, Russo said. He purpose than tuition. She also added that Notre Dame has said only 9 percent of the committed to another major earnings on the University's policy -meeting the full need $3 billion dollar endowment of every admitted student. can be used to support gener­"That's not to say that how al University operations. we measure need is a perfect 
"Large gifts like Mr. science or that the families Jordan's generous $40 million won't have to sacrifice or stu­dollar [gift] get much atten-dents won't have to work and· 

5:00pm Monday Feb. 21 
At Spm, get the ins1de scoop on diet-myths, learn the role supplements can play in your over-all health, uncover the truth about natural hormone balancing creams. And, enter to win fantastic products! 
p 6ea~u#d7:00pm Monday Feb. 21 At 7prn, get information on anti-aging skin care, find out what the big-deal is about Swiss skin care and all natural cosmetics, try an exclusive line of skin care and see the results on your skin! And, enter to win fantastic anti-aging products! 
borrow money," Russo said. are just one in three. better ways to fund education "But we are committed to "You don't need more than to continually increase looking every student in the semesters in college -each tuition," Glass said. "However, eye and saying, 'Yes, we will would cost more money -college is so expensive that it meet your needs."' and additional time spent barely makes a difference ­
This policy was-would be lost I'm already in debt forever as n't always the opportunity it is." case, Russo said. "I don't think the money, as they Evan Henley, a Zahm Hall In 1990 -when University realizes say in econom­sophomore financing part of the need-blind ics," he said. his own education, said he
that not everyone 
policy was not in "Not only are feels the University's decision effect the here has an extra you not work­displayed a lack of aware­trustees asked $2,soo lying ing, but you're ness. how families were still there [pay­"I don't think the University
around."
coping and what ing for the cost realizes that not everyone could be of college]." here has an extra $2,500 improved, he said. Evan Henley According to lying around," he said. "This Results were clear sophomore Russo, Notre tuition increase puts a strain -"it didn't take a Dame also has on all of us, and it's hard to Jot of research to one of the low­justify paying it when there see that we had to step up. est default rates on student are no noticeable changes." financial aid," Russo said. loans, at just two-tenths of a Steve Rowley, father of They did so with the help of percent. He called the low freshman Elisabeth Rowley, generous benefactors, finan­rates another indicator of admitted the tuition hike was cial campaigns, a robust success -not only do stu­going to be tough. economy ahd even the NBC dents graduate on time and Like Glass, he suggested television contract, said become successful, but they another source of financial Russo, and finally achieved a have a sense of obligation to support for the University. need-blind status in 1999. their alma mater. "For us, we're not very 
Russo said the need-blind Ultimately, Russo said, wealthy, so it's a struggle," policy has had a snowball there is a difference between Rowley said. " ... I'm wonder­effect. the rate of inflation and the ing if, maybe, they shouldn't 
Secondary school students rate at which tuition is rising, use [the Notre Dame] endow­become interested in Notre because there is a difference ment to hold [the cost of Dame and now hear that between an average market tuition] down? I know they Notre Dame will meet their good and a four-year educa­have a huge one." needs -so they want to tional experience. Like many parents, though, apply, he said, noting applica­"Students aren't purchasing Rowley said they "love the tion numbers have been high­a consumer item; they're· school" and no matter the er in the last three years than making an investment for cost of tuition, Notre Dame is they have ever been in histo­which there's going to be a worth it. Mary Ryan, mother ry. return," he said. "For most of freshman twins Brendan 
"That policy clearly has had students, it's going to be posi­and Brogan Ryan -the third an impact on improving the tive, especially for Notre and fourth Ryan children to quality and diversity of the Dame students." attend the University, of the student body and the reputa­Students and parents Ryan's 11 children -said the tion of the University," he respond value of the religious educa­said. Sam Glass, a sophomore tion here is irresistible. The value of a Notre Dame from Lyons in the work-study "Of course we have a prob­education program at Notre Dame, said lem [with the hike]." she said. 
Russo emphasized the high she feels there should be "But we are firm believers in value of a Notre Dame educa­other fundraising techniques Catholic education; all of our tion. He pointed out that to cover financial needs. children are in Catholic Notre Dame graduates 95 "I understand the University schools ...We're confident the percent of its freshmen in has to keep up with the rising University will meet our needs four years, a rate which ranks costs of living, but considering. and help us out." fourth nationally; for the the cuts being made by the average college student, the government to assist college Contact Eileen Duffy at chances of finishing on time students, it seems there are eduffyl@n,d.edu 


JPWWEEKEND 
South Band's #1 Sports Bar 2046 South Band Ava -Across from Martins Plaza 272·1 766 


Juniors, 1We look forward -o mee-lina your paren-s -his weekend. 

Muse be 21 wlith vallid ID 




ORLD & NATION 
rriday. February 18, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Car bomb kills five in Thailand 
BANGKOK. Thailand -In an escalation of tlw sectarian violence plaguing Muslim­dominated soutlwrn Thailand, a powerful car bomb nxplodPCI Thursday in a busy nightlife~ district, killing live people and injur­ing morn than 40. The car bomb was hPiinvml to lw Thailand's first. 
i\ serie-s of smaller attacks during the past ye-ar has !wen blanwd on Islamic separatists in tlw moslly Buddhist country, but Thursday's car bomb raised questions about wlwther fornign militants wen~ involved. 
The homh was planted in a car parked rwar the Marina llotnl in Sungai Kolok, a town on the Malaysian bordnr that is popular with malo tour·ists. No one has taken respon­sibility for tlw attack, whkh police believe was triggnn~d with a mobile phone. 
China to send envoy to N. Korea 
BI·:I.IING-China said Thursday it will send a top communist party ol'fkial to North Korea for talks with its longtime ally in an Pllilrt to break a stalenwtn over the North's IIU('hHtr program. hut Beijing urged patience in its dealing with the volatile eountry. 
U.S. and South Korean envoys visited B(•ijing to seek lwlp in persuading the isolat­ed North to rejoin six-nation nuelear talks that were suspended in .June. Those talks inrludo the llnitod States, tlw two Koreas, China, l!ussia and .Japan. 
China. tlw North's biggest backer and a major sourcn of aid to the impoverished country, has hnnn wary of openly testing its inllunnce with Pyongyang. 
China urged patinnee with the unpre­dirtahle North. whieh has rejeete~d calls to retur·n to the~ six-nation talks, aceusing Washington of hostility. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bill Cosby won't face charges 
I'IIII.ADELI'IIIi\ -Bill Cosby will not face charges stemming from a woman's allegation lw fondled her, a prosecutor said Thursday. 
Authorities found "insutlieiont erodible and admissihln evidemcc" to support the woman's daims. Montgonwry County District Attorney Bru<:() Castor said in a statmnnnt. 
i\ former Temple University employee, who now livns in her nativn Ontario, went to Canadian authorities Jan. 13, contending that Cosby gave hnr medication that made lwr feel dizzy, then fondled her at his subur­ban l'hiladnlphia home al'ter a dinner out with frinnds in January 2004. She said she later awok(~ to find her bra undone and her dotlws in disarray. 
Cosby has dnnind thn allngations. 
Congress approves class-action law 
Wi\SIIINGTON-Got a bnef with big busi­nnss? If you and enough of your fnllow con­sunwrs are mad enough to sun, bn aware that stall~ courts-where many of the biggest payouts in class-action lawsuits have hewn made -may now be dosed to you. 
i\l'ter years of complaints from business about tlw gerwrosity of state judges and juries toward plaintiffs, lawmakers on Thursday sent Prnsident Bush legislation ainwd at discouraging sur.h multistatn, mul­tiplaintiiT suits by sending many of them to the traditionally morn stingy fednral courts. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Prosecutor will seek death penalty 
INI>Ii\Ni\I'OLIS Marion County Prose-cutor Carl Brizzi today said he will sePk t.hn demth p(malty against Kenneth Len i\llnn. but span~ i\lle~n·s sistnr, in the slay­ings of thnir mother and grandparents. 
Br·izzi -who will try tlw (:asc himsPlf­dnsnihnd s1wnn aggravating faetors why dPath should he imposnd against i\llon, 29. Among tlwm was tlw brutal tnmtmnnt of the victims, some of whom were dismem­hPrPd. 
CoMPILED FROM THE ()HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush names intelligence chief 
President selects veteran diplomat John Negroponte to unite U.S. spy agencies 
Associated Press 

Wi\SIIINGTON President Bush named .John Ncgropontn, the U.S. ambassador to Iraq, as the government's first national intnlligenec dirPetor Thursday, turning to a vet­eran diplomat to rnvivc a spy community besiPged by critidsm after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Ending a nine-week soareh, Bush ehose N(1groponte, who has been in Iraq I'or less than a year, for the difl'ieult job of implementing tho most sweeping intnlligenee overhaul in 50 years. 
Negroponte, 65, is tasked with bringing together 15 highly compet­itive spy agencies and learning to work with the combative Defense Secretary Donald II. Humsfeld, the brand new Cit\ Director Porter Goss and other intelligence leaders. He'll oversee a covert intelligence budget estimated at $40 billion. 
Negroponte, a former ambassador to tho United Nations and to a number of countries, called the job his "most challenging assignment" in more than 40 years of government work. 
He was widely believed not to have been the first president during daily longest-serving head of the approved the new post in choice, but Bush ofl'icials intelligence briefings and secretive codebreaking Decnmber as part ol' tho denied the prosident had will have authority over and eavesdropping agency, most significant intnlli­had trouble filling the the spy community's intel­llayden pushed for change gcnce overhaul sinen position. ligence collection priori­by asking some longtime 1947. 
II' confirmed by the ties. Perhaps most impor­personnel to retire and Yot intelligence voterans Senate, as expected, tantly, Bush made clear increasing reliance on remain concerned about Negroponte said he that Negroponte will set technology contractors. whether the job will wield planned "reform of the budgets for the national For years, blue-ribbon enough power to lead gov­intelligence community in intelligence agencies. commissions have pro­ernment elements that ways designod to best "People who control the posed creating a single, handle everything from meet the intelligence money, people who have powerful director to over­recruiting spies to eavos­noeds of the 21st century." access to the president sec the entire intelligence dropping to steering satel­
Bush signaled that he generally have a lot of community, but the con­lites. sees Negroponte as the influence," Bush said. cept didn't gain momen­Somo say the authoriti(~S man to steer his intelli­"i\nd that's why John tum until recommended by of the intelligence chief gonee clearinghouse. "If Negroponte is going to the independent Sept. 11 are too ambiguous as we'rn going to stop the ter­have a lot or influence... Commission. establishnd in thn legisla­rorists beforn they strike, Bush also announced he Bush and other st~nior tion. The position was also we must ensure that our had chosen an intelligence administration officials ini­excluded from tlw Cabinet intelligence ageneics work insider to serve as tially resisted, but to shield it from polities, as a single, unitied enter­Negroponte's deputy, Lt. reversed course after an requiring Negroponte to prise," Bush said. Gen. Miehael !Iayden, the exePptional lobbying eiTort work d i rc~ ctly with moro 
Negroponte will have National Security Agency's by the families of Sept. 11 senior personalities such coveted time with the director since 1999. i\s the attack victims. Congress as Hurnsfeld. 

IRAN 

Mideast nations expand alliance 
Associated Press 

TEIIHi\N, Iran-Iran warned that any strike on its nuelear facilitiPs would draw a swil't and crushing response and called Thursday for an expansion of its newly emerging strategic alliance with Syria to .ere­ate a powerful united Islamic front that could confront Washington and Israel. 
Such an expansion appears unlike­ly to go far, beeause many key Arab states -Egypt, Jordan. Saudi Arabia -eloso Washington allies and have long been suspicious of 
Iran's Shiite Muslim derical regime. 
Still, the statements were another sign of the tense situation, coming a day after Syria and Iran declared they would form a united front against any threats, and a mysteri­ous explosion near a nuclear facility in southwestern Iran that initially was reported as a missile strike but later was attributed to construction work on a dam. 
Iran's ovurtures to other Muslim countries in thn Mideast reflect its (~onecrn about U.S. pressure to drop all its nuclear ambitions. With Syria under similarly strong American scrutiny -in its case for its roln in Lebanon and as an allnged sponsor of terrorism -tlw two nations are trying to diminish Washington's efforts to isolatn tlwm. 
The Bush administration has so far applied only diplomatic pressure, but has talked tough. President Bush has labnlnd Iran part of an "axis of nvil" with North Kon~a and prewar Iraq. 
Snerctary of State Condolnnzza Hien said Fnb. 4 that a military strike against Iran was "not on thn agc-rHia at this point," but Bush has said lw would not rule out any option. 
Friday, February 18, 2005 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
JPW 
continued from page 1 

committee secretary Lauren Messina said. 
This evening students and par­ents will attend "The Grand Tour," an event featuring booths representative of a variety of European countries. Each booth will offer a selection of hors d'oeuvres from its respective country. In addition, the event will have a night of dancing and a cash bar. 
Saturday, each individual aca­demic school will provide work­shops allowing parents to expe­rience the academic aspects of their child's life at Notre Dame. 
Following the Saturday evening JPW Mass, 
scheduled during gradua-tion weekend, Messina said. 
"I can't wait to meet the par­ents of all of my friends," Messina said. "In high school it was so different because you knew everyone's parents, some­times becoming as close with them as you were to your own parents. It will be great to have long conversations with them and finally realize why our friends here are such amazing people." 
JPW committee chair Kathryn Reynolds emphasized the impor­tance of the weekend to juniors and their parents and said some rules on campus will be altered to facilitate the event. 
"It is because of [the event's significance] that the rest of Notre Dame's campus tries to 
make this week­
University end be about the 
"I hope students are
President Father junior class and
able to show their 
Edward Malloy, their parents by accompanied by parents the home not allowing on­University campus social
they have here at
President-elect gatherings, and
Notre Dame. " 
Father John parietals are at Jenkins. will 12 o'clock," she attend the "Arctic Kathryn Reynolds said. Excursion"­With these
JPW committee chair 
I themed President's I ' Dinner. I The weekend will conclude 
with a Sunday morning "Escape to Paradise" brunch. In addition to the weekend's official events, many juniors 
have planned special gatherings for parents and friends. At the conclusion of the President's Dinner, individual students have rented local facilities including the College Football Hall of Fame and Bookmakers to allow their parents and friends to bond in smaller groups. 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh began the Junior Parents Weekend tradition to allow par­ents the opportunity to share a weekend at Notre Dame with their children prior to gradua­tion. Hesburgh wanted parents and students to spend time together without having to attend the different events 
Charities 
continued from page I 

In more recent years, Malloy facilitated the creation of the Robinson Center, a Notre Dame-sponsored education center in the Northeast Neighborhood of South Bend. Additionally, Malloy has served on the board for the St. Joseph County chapter of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America. 

rules in place, 
many non-junior students plan to leave campus for the weekend. Sophomore Alison McKillen and her friends plan to take a road trip to University of Dayton. Similarly, freshman Kristin Drach said her friends are off to visit Ohio State. 
"I [don't like] midnight pari­etals. The dining hall also gets too busy with parents," Drach said. "It is a perfect weekend to get away." 
Reynolds said the University provides a unique atmosphere for juniors and their parents. 
"I hope students are able to show their parents the home they have here at Notre Dame," she said. "As a class, I hope we take advantage of this opportu­nity to share this experience with each other." 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 
Tickets are on sale through Feb. 18 and can be purchased individually or as a table by calling 574-273-9700. Gold, silver and bronze sponsorships are also available. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

Freeze 
continued from page 1 
trend. 

"As a matter of fact, we plan to try to limit our tuition increases as much as we can throughout the next several years," she said. "We're going to try to keep it to four per­cent or less." 
The $916 tuition hike will make the total for 2005-06 $32,500, Stickelmaier said. This amount includes cost of education, a meal plan, cost of room, utilities and various items falling under the "fee" category, such as technology, student government and facil­ities. 
Stickelmaier said she did 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 

ness or bittersweet senti­ment. He did, however, keep his sights set firmly on the future, trying to mirror University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh's precedent of leaving Notre Dame institutionally strong for the incoming president. 
"I haven't given a lot of thought to that part of my life, but I'm not in denial or anything, I'm just focusing on what I do and hoping for a very smooth transition," Malloy said. 
Since the Board of Trustees announced in April the upcoming presidential transi­tion, Malloy and his succes­sor, University President­elect Father John Jenkins, have been consulting one another when making deci­sions for Notre Dame. Though Malloy said he did not approach this year differ­ently than any of the other 17 he served as president, he admitted that the biggest change and adjustment he made involved decision-mak­ing. 
"Instead of being the final voice in decision-making administratively, I recognized the whole year and in partic­ular as we get closer to the transition that I need to defer to [University President-elect not think students would be worried by the small tuition hike this year, and compared 
the  impact  of this  year's  
"increase  to  other  slight  
increases in the past.  

"We did an analysis of our net tuition, which is tuition minus financial aid," she said. "We compared 1996 to 2004, and when you look at the net tuition, it only went up five percent in eight years. We also significantly increased our [allotment] to financial aid." 
Stickelmaier said the College hands out $11.5 mil­lion in institutional aid per year, a number that "definite­ly will go up as tuition rises." She believes the aid is a draw to Saint Mary's, and said most prospective students will not 
be discouraged by the price tag. 
"We try to do the best we can with institutional finan­cial aid, and I'm sure that there are a few students who would go to a state school rather than here because of the cost," Stickelmaier said. 
But cost is not the main fac­tor for students who consider attending Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, she added. 
"I think if you're looking at the price compared to the quality of the two institutions, price can be important -but quality can be even more important," she said. "That's a key issue for our students and for Notre Dame's." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

John Jenkins)." Malloy said. world of administration is 
While Jenkins devotes time that you can't always control to arranging his staff and what happens. You do the preparing for transition, best you can do and then you Malloy continues to focus on move on," Malloy said. "You completing details of the really have to be flexible, and University's current 10-year that's the way I live my life." plan, hiring new faculty, Malloy is not about fanfare. overseeing next year's budget He knows that a series of and approving tenure promo­"goodbye" events are tion decisions. planned, but he would rather 
Despite an exceptionally focus on his future, and the 
eventful  year,  University's. He  
Malloy said he  candidly  said  
has no regrets from his last year in the  ''I'm just focusing on what I do and  his biggest joy this year was the opening of  
Office of the President. During the past  hoping for a very smooth transition. "  the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the  
14 months  all  Performing  
three of Notre Dame's associ­ Father Edward Malloy University president  Arts. He is also looking forward  

ate provosts ­Carol Mooney, John Affleck-Graves and Jenkins -left their positions for promotions at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and the University filled the year-long vacancy in the office of the executive vice president. Additionally, the controversial firing of head football coach Tyrone Willingham sparked debate across the country, and Notre Dame hired alumnus and Patriots offensive coordinator Charlie Weis to lead the Irish. 
"We had a little public flap, it had little to do with John, it had to do with other.circum­stances. One of the things you find out in the complicated to completion of 
the Jordan Hall 
of Science, the Guglielmino Family Athletics Center and the South Bend Center for Medical Education, the Indiana University School of Medicine on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. 
"Those projects are all coming to fruition and I was involved in approving them." Malloy said. "It isn't just about the people we are bringing along, it's the facili­ties that will be available to the Notre Dame community." 
Malloy will step down as president on June 30, 2005. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Friday february 18, 2005 
page 7 
==~========~========= 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,754.26 -80.62

}ones 
Up: 1,108  Same: 149  Down: ~l'  Composite Volume: 1,574,832,896  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  I ,497. 77 2,061 .34 7,272.54 1.200.75  +0.95 -26.09 -34.22 -9.59  

NIKK£/(Tokyo) II .5~2.72 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5, 0 57 .40 +4.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I 00 TR (QQQQ)  -1.34  -0.51  37.47  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -2.11  -0.51  23.63  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0,54  -0.14  26.65  
SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW)  -2.35  -0.10  4.15  
CISCO SYS INC (SUNW)  -1.47  -0.26  17.45  


30-YEAR BOND  + 1.31  +0.51  45.73  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.65  +0.27  41.85  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.13  -0.05  37.77  
3-MONTH BILL  0.00  0.00  25.27  
Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.64  48.22  
GOLD ($ffroy oz.)  +I.70 428.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) Excha YEN  Rates  +0.03 85.98 I 05.5000  
•  EURO POUND  0.7651 0.5278  
CANADIAN$  1.2715  

IN BRIEF 
War on terror hurts U.S. tourism 
Miekey Mousn has a bone to pick with Uncle Sam. 
Sonw U.S. travel executives-including those who run Disneyland and Wall Disney World -think the government needs to do more to improVl1 the country's image with for­nign tourists who increasingly are choosing otlwr plaens for thnir vacations. 
Tourism ol1kials ascribn the decline partly to anti-Anwrieanism that arose after the coun­try laundwd military action in Afghanistan and Iraq and to the "hassle factor" assoeiated with nnw visa application and airport security proendun1s. 
Aggmssivn eampaigns by other countries to lure tourists havn had an impact, too. 
"It's morn than just an image decline," said Jay Hasulo, prnsident of Walt Disney Parks & Hnsorts, a Lake Buena Vista, Fla.-basnd unit of Thn Wall Disney Co. "I think other countries arn out there competing for tourists and we have not bnnn." 
ITC approves hotel conglomerate 
LAS VE<;AS -The Federal Trade Commission on Wednesday approved MGM Mirage's proposal to buy rival Mandalay Hesort Group, a move that could create one of the largest gambling companies in the world and givt1 the casino operator control of 11 resorts on the famed Las Vegas Strip. 
The commission voted 5-0 to close its inves­tigation and placn no conditions on the trans­action, an FTC spokesman told The Associated Prnss. 
MGM Mirage Inc. still needs Nevada and other state gambling regulators to approve the blockbuster deal. 
"We arn very pleased that the FTC has made thn ruling but there remains a significant step, tim approval of the Gaming Control Board and (;aming Commission in Nevada," MGM Mirage spokesman Alan Feldman said. State gambling regulators are scheduled to consider the mat­ter m1xt week. 
In .June, MGM Mirage agreed to purchase Mandalay for $4.H billion in cash, $2.5 billion in dnbt and $600 million convertible deben­tures. The company has secured financing for tho mnrger. 

Microsoft faces new dilemma 
Corporation's new antivirus products might conzpete directly witlz its allies 
Associated Press 

SI\ATTI.H-If Microsoft Corp. doesn't. do more to stnm lnterrwl attacks, the company risks further alienating custonwrs unhappy with tho multitude of throats alrMdy litcing its ubiquitous softwarn. 
Snll its own snr.urity prod­ucts, on the other hand. and Microsoft facns a potnntial backlash from sonw of its allins-llw companies that now provide an nxtra laynr of security for its Windows opPrat.ing system. Internet Hxplon~r br-owser and other produets. 
With a powerhouse like M krosort bneom ing a dirnet eompntitor, they could get squenzed out. 
What a quandary. 

l.ast week, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates con­f'irmed plans to sell antivirus products to both consunwrs and big busi­nesses by the end of the year. But tho Hedmond company is mum on cost and foaturns. 
Speaking at a security eonference, Gates also said the company would give consumers a free tool for combating spyware, a pesky and growing threat that can monitor users' activities, hinder computer performance and create other hassles. Microsoft wreak more havoc on a new firewall and other can't afford such give­also will sell a more sophis­Windows, Moskowitz said. security measures. But aways. ticated antispyware product "A very significant num­given their widespread use, "We would have rather to businesses. ber of people, if they don't the products are near-con­they entered the market fc1r 
Executives in the security have a good security expe­stant target<; of attaeks that spyware and compett~d." industry say they believe rience, they're going to hold take advantage of loopholes Hodges said. Microsoft's promise to con­it against Microsoft -even and flaws to hijack comput­Seeurity eompanies tinue sharing security infor­if they're using another ers, steal personal informa­including McAfee already mation and working with vendor," Moskowitz said. tion and cripple businesses. sell antispywarn products, other security companies Still, .John Schwarz, presi­McAfee Inc. President generally charging between even after it becomes a dent and chief operating Gene Hodges calls its new $30 and $40, though a few direct eompetitor. officer of Symantec Corp., competitor an example of giv~~ away versions or trials 
Analyst Gregg Mosk-owitz would rather see Microsoft "capitalism at its best." for free. with Susquehanna concentrate on fixing secu­But he said it will only be Mierosoft has downplayed Financial Group said both rity flaws. a fair fight if all eompanies the competitive angle, say­sides have an incentive to "We believe they'd be bet­have a level playing field in ing they are simply "continue to play nice with ter off in focusing on mak­which everyone sells, rather responding to rnqunsts each other." ing sure that their platform, than gives away, products. from customers for more 
The security companies the Windows operating sys­Microsoft's move to sell protection options. Amy are dependent on Microsoft tem, is less subject to antivirus software appears Hoberts, a dirnetor with tlw to make sure their defenses attack," Schwarz said. fair so far, llodges said, company's seeurity and run smoothly, while Microsoft has worked though he said Microsoft's business unit, said the eom­Microsoft cannot risk hav­feverishly to better secure decision to give away an pany is most eoneerned ing competing security its products, including antispyware product eould about people who havn no products break down and updating Windows XP with hurt smaller players who extra protection at all. 

Clear Channel plans liberal format 
Those who track broadcasting trends wanl'i to listen to a bunch of whiny lib­
Associated Press 

say there's money to be made in liberal erals on the radio,"' Webster said 
DETHOIT -The day before talk radio. Todd Webster, a consultant The partnership might seem surpris­President Bush's inauguration, listen­for Washington-based liberal talk show ing because of Texas-based Clear ers tuning in to the Detroit sport<> sta­producer Democracy Radio, said Clear Channel's conservative reputation. tion WXDX-AM were suddenly greeted Channel is expected to introduce the Clear Channel CEO Lowry Mays and by the sound of braying donkeys. By left-leaning format on 20 more stations his wife gave $65,000 to the the time Bush was taking the oath of by the end of the year. Hepublican National Committen in the ollice, the radio station had new call 'There is a tremendous appetite out last election cyde, and two-thirds of letters and a full schedule of liberal there for progressive talk," he said. the company's federal donations went talk shows. Webster said that even as recently a to Hepublicans, aeeording to the Center 
WXDX-AM-now known as WD'IW­year ago, no one thought Texas-based for Responsive Politics. AM -is one of 22 stations owned by Clear Channel, a media conglomerate And last summer, a Berkeley, Calif.­Clear Channel Communications Inc. that owns 1,200 stations, would ever based group sued Clear Channel, that have switched to a liberal talk filr­become partners with upstart liberal which also owns an outdoor advertis­mat in the last year. This month, talkers. ing business, after it refused to run an KTLK-AM in Los Angeles became the "There has been a tectonic shift in anti-war billboard in Times Square latest Clear Channel station to adopt the industry from all of the big brains during the Hepublican National the format. and the head honchos saying, 'Nobody Convention. 
Friday, February 18, 2005 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
ENGLAND 
Ban prohibits Brits from hunting foxes 
Associated Press 
SEDBEHGH-For two foxes in northwestern England, the ban on hunting came too late. 
Caught and killed by the dog paek of the Lunesdale Hunt on a bright winter morning, they were c·asualties on the last day before the centuries-old sport is banned. Now it's the hounds­in kennels across England and Wales -who face an uncertain future. 
The majority of hunts in England and Wales held events Thursday before the start of the ban on hunting with dogs. Scotland, with a separate legal system, had already banned hunting. 
"When the ban comes in; we're not going to break the law of course," said Peter Capasso, secretary of the Lunesdale Hunt, based in Sedbergh in northwest­ern Cumbria County. 
Instead, he believes the 350 members of the hunt will vote to eontinue paying a total of $2,800 a month to keep the 60 dogs alive while hoping that the ban can be repealed. Other hunts, how­ever, have said 
many following in cars -set off across the rugged landscape of Howgills as an early mist burned away and the day shone erisp and clear. 
"Today, a lot of people have taken the day off work," Capasso said. "It's been like a bank holi­day or Boxing Day" -Dec. 26, traditionally the big day on the Lunesdale hunt calendar. 
The legislation, forced into law by the House of Commons in November, bans all hunting with hounds including the pursuit of rabbits and deer. Shooting foxes 
Sizzle in:: 


Bellini 
Tuesdays 
will remain legal. 
The weekend brings a change of gear in the eampaign to over­turn the law. 
lsobel Walsh, a spokeswoman for the pro-hunting Countryside Alliance, said thousands of hunters were expected to attend more than 250 hunts planned around the r,ountry Saturday. 
"They are determined to go out and hunt within the law to prove how absurd it is," Walsh said. 
The Duke of Beaufort's llunt in western England, whose sup­porters inelude Prince Charles and his fiancee, Camilla Parker Bowles, planned to hold trail hunts, where hounds chase a scent rather than foxes. 
"If we happen to catch a fox on Saturday, it will just be a nasty accident for that fox because our intention will be to hunt the trail, not the fox," said Mike Hibbard, a member of the hunt. 
The Countryside Alliance had tried to overturn the ban by questioning the validity of the 1949 Parliament Act, which law­makers used to override the 
they may have to "If we happen catch 
kill their dogs. 
a fox on Saturday,
Warmed by a shot of whisky or it will just be a coffee dispensed nasty accident for 
at the Dalesman 
that fox ... " 
Country Inn, the members of the Lunesdale Hunt Mike Hibbard and supporters -member of the hunt 
opposition of the · House of Lords. 
Three senior 
Court of Appeal 
judges on 
Wednesday reject­
ed the argument. 
Hunt supporters 
have said they are 
prepared to take 
the case to the 
European Court of 
Human Rights. 
Hural affairs 
minister Alun 
Michael said he 
was confident the law would survive the legal challenges. 
"I am particularly pleased that hunts are now talking about an intention to hunt within the law," Michael said. 
"That means doing all that is traditionally associated with hunting from the stirrup cup to red coats to enjoying a day in the fresh air, and that should cause problems for no one as long as they don't use their dogs to hunt a wild mammal." 

Siz';}lene (Sizzlelini'P)­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! 
A sizzling skillet of tender chicken. savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 

B;)-Iefie (Bellini)­
A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 

'Lil' Sibs' come to Saint Mary's 
By APRIL THOMAS 
News Writer 

While parents set up camp across the street this weekend, Saint Mary's will welcome stu­dents' younger family members. 
From this afternoon to Sunday morning, Belles' sisters, broth­ers, cousins and friends will enjoy activities, explore campus and spend quality time with their hostesses during Little Siblings Weekend. 
"We have about 130 students and 220 sibs participating ­pretty much the same as last year," event co-chair Jennifer Pillar said. 
According to co-chair Lisa Cozzi, the Residence Hall Association began preparing in September, producing an itiner­ary based on the chosen theme, "SMC Gone Country." 
The theme will be tied into the scheduled dance and craft activi­ties on Saturday. 
"Each child can decorate a cowboy hat," Pillar said. 
Along with a karaoke night at Dalloway's tonight, Cozzi said a new addition to the annual weekend will take place. 
"Friday night around 9 p.m., each dorm will be showing its own movie for the sibs," she said. 
McCandless and Holy Cross Hall Councils are sponsoring "Monsters, Inc.," LeMans Hall will be showing "The Emperor's New Groove" and "Sleeping Beauty" will be shown in Regina. 
Saturday's events include a pizza party, dorm breakfasts, a pool party and a free-throw con­test at the Belles basketball game. 
RHA also teamed up with SAB to bring "Shrek 2" to Carroll Auditorium at 7 p.m. Saturday, an event open to the whole cam­pus. 
Cozzi plans to participate in the finished product of HHA's hard work and already looks for­ward to her favorite activity ­the dance Saturday night. 
"My three cousins are coming for their third year," she said. "They are so excited." 
Contact April Thomas at thom3549@saintmarys.edu 

POLAND 

Pope to publish his fifth book 
Associated Press 

WAHSAW -In his new book, Pope John Paul II for the first time described publicly the moments after he was gravely wounded in 1981, say­ing he was fearful and in pain, but had "a strange feeling of confidence" that he would live. 
In the book, a copy of which was obtained Thursday by The Associated Press, the Polish pontiff also said his would-be assassin, Mehmet Ali Agca, "understood that above his power -the power of shoot­ing and killing -there is a greater power." 
In "Memory and Identity: Conversations Between 
Millenniums," the pope said he remembered being rushed to the hospital but didn't recall much of what happened after he arrived because "I was almost on the other side." 
"Oh, my Lord! This was a difficult experience. I woke up the next day, around noon," the pope wrote. 
The book, his fifth, is essen­tially a transcript of conversa­tions he had in Polish with his close friends political philoso­pher Krzysztof Michalski and the late Hev. Jozef Tischner in 1993 at his summer residence near Rome. It will be pub­lished Feb. 23 in Italy by Rizzoli, which also plans an English version soon for the United States. 
In it, the pope reflected on a range of topics and broadly compares abortion to the Holocaust, saying both derived from governments in conflict with God's laws. 
The most personal section of the book contains John Paul's recollections of how his faith sustained him after being shot in the abdomen by the Turkish gunman on May 13, 1981, while riding in an open car in St. Peter's Square. 
"Yes, I remember that jour-.. ney to the hospital," he wrote. "I remained conscious for some time after. I had a feel­ing that I would I would sur­vive. I was in pain, I had rea­son to be afraid, but I had this strange feeling of confidence." 


~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
hiday, Pebruary 18, 2005 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Delays cut for visa applications 
Associated Press 
Tlw Stall' and llonwland 
SPcurity dnpartnwnts havn 
n•durPd from months to WI~Pks 
tlw limn it takPs forni!{n students 
and sd10lars tryin!{ to trawl to 
tlw UnitPd Stall's to dnar a kny 
visa rnviPw, armrdin!{ to a nnw 
!{ovnrnmPnt n~port. 
Tlw findin!{s arn welr.orne 
IWWS for edur.ation lnadnrs, 
though tlwy havn cautioned 
strnamlinin!{ tlw visa procnss 
will not, on its own, rnversn the 
trond of' dndining intnrest 
amon!{ foreig1wrs in attnnding 
A.nwrican eollngns and univnrsi­
tios. 
Amid complaints from hi!{hor nducation groups and major husinnss leaders, including Bill Gatos, that visa hassles were discouraging foreign students from attnnding American schools, a Government A.n:ountahility Ollke investiga­tion last year found average dolays of 67 days fhr applicants to dear a sm:urity chock filr sd­lmtists known as Visa Mantis. Sornn dnlays wnn~ considerably longPr, and somn applicants 
A 
waitnd as long as 12 wnoks just to got an intnrviow to start tho procnss. 
In a follow-up report to be reloas('(l Friday, the Gi\0 finds tho avorago wait following the interview has now fallen to 15 days, aeeording to a source who has hnnn hriefod on t he findings and spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The roport erodits the overall improvmnont to bdtor tochnolo­1-,')'. coordination among agencies and policy changes -such as priority interviews for student applicants. It cautions that prob­loms remain and some scholars still facn considerable delays. 
The report comes just a week after the government announced it would allow inter­national students to keep their Visa Mantis clearance for the duration of their studies, up to four years -a change that will likely further reduce delays. Hnapplications from those who had bonn previously eleared wnrn a major bottleneck, and a source of anxiety lilr applicants, who worried thoy might be unable to get back to sehool if 

G-reat Food! G-reat Futt! •1 Sports Jar itt South Jettd 2046 South Jettd Ave ~ Across frotM Martitts Plaza 272~1766 fUES: COLLE~E NI~HT ~ t1J &SPECIALS (STARTIN~ AT $1,00) Wed: Live fRIVIA Night ~ Jring your teatMs ~ Prizes fHURS: t1J ~ Penny Night ~ 1~ Specials starting at 9:00PM MUST SE 21 WITH VALIP lt1  
THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, ANO THEATRE PRESENTS: FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 18. 2005 DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER "AMERICA'S MOST WANTED: WHY PEOPLE KILL" >7:ee P.M. ~DEBARTOLO>BROWNING CINEMA ~ PERFORMING ARTS CENTER >OPf.N TO fl1f: PUBliC. NO rHAfl(,f' BOT TltKF.TS ARf. Rf.QUJAEO. G.tT TICKErS lN AO\IANC! AT HIE Ol;aARTOLO PERr:OIUW~G ARTS F:=f.]ll NIVF.RSITY OF CENTEFI 11Ck(l or:nct IH 081-2U6et. 'W NOTRE DAMF. "REENACTMENT, PRODUCTION, AND EDITING PROCESSES" >1•88-2•30 1'u'1"·u..c.tn. ( .~1.:~-:\ ,.f -\rh .md I ..:llcr,.l·•• >ROOH B043 Jcrl~t..Ju.tt(.ll\1dk,1•1.d lmtt.UIV\, 1:>-:flllfl'''~lll >OPEN 10 ALL STUDENTS "I l:uf'li~h. Dcp.uun~u• "' "io~o.i"IL'FJ'. r,,.,, v~.u "STORY DEVELOPMENT, A JOURNALISM FOCUS" uf !''N•Iiu., lmhllu~ t '111~,.,.11)' 'i•luth IS..nJ', ~hiKiluff>ul·l•• .11\•II·n\ll'''"llt'lll.,l-\ff..tull,>3•80-~ 130 ltm.:ru~tion~l 'llw.lt.:lll Scrvkc> .tnd ,\..JI~iu, ••>ROOH B64S M.,rrc I! l kD..m. ,f,, ( .:m~:1 1." or d1c 1\-t /mu,,nK>OP£N TO ALL STUDENTS .\n•. ~nm: flanu.: "-.:uuih f\,f,,c  

DETAILS, DETAILS, 
They make the Palais unique. 
The beauty and elegance of this 1920s historic ballroom, with its polished oak dance floor, crystal chandelier, and arched windows. • The personalized attention you'II receive from our professional staff. • The unforgettable menu our own chef will help you create. 
Planning your special event? Give us acall, and let's talk about the details. 
Premier Banquet Facility 

foreed to return homo in an nmnrgency. 
Peggy Blumenthal, vice presi­dnnt filr educational serviens at thn Institute of International Education, praised U.S. embassies for making an improved visa process a top pri­ority. Still, publie mlations chal­lenges remain, she said. 
"Even morn important than the actual wait times, whieh have improved, is eombatting the perception abroad by stu­dents that the situation is the same as it was shortly al'tnr Sept. 11 ," she said. "Students right now are going on what they heard from their cousin or friend or neighbor who applied three years ago." 
!\bout 600,000 foreigners study in the United State, but international graduate student applications fell 32 percent last year, according to an liE survey. Another survey released in November limnd the number of first-time foreign enrollees in American graduate schools was down 6 percent-the third straight decline after a dncade of growth. 
PBS cautions about war documentary's swearing 
Associated Press 
NI\W YOHK -Worried about the FCC, PBS is taking the words out of the mouths of somo sol­diers filmed during combat in Iraq. 
Tho public broadeastnr is dis­tributing "dean" and "raw" ver­sions of next Tunsday's "Frontline" doeumnntary about the Iraq war, titlnd "A. Company of Soldiers," and is warning it can't insure stations against FCC fines stemming from the lan­guagn. 
It's an example of the televi­sion's industry's continued uncertainty about Federal Communications Commission standards for language and eon­tent and a real-life echo of last fall's decision by 66 A.BC aflili­atns not to air the movie "Saving Private Hyan." 
The documentary eontains 13 expletives spokon by soldiers. "Frontline" producers decided to leave them in because it present­ed a true picture of how these men and women react to the fear and stress of war. said David Fanning, the show's exeeutivn producer. 
The produeers also made a separate version of the docu­mentary with the words oditnd 

out. for us1~ by sonw of PBS's 170 stations in morn consnrvativP parts of tlw eountry. "Frontlinn" is produend by Boston's WGBII. whieh will air tho raw vorsion. 
lnstPad, PBS dnddnd to snnd the dnan vorsion out to itll of its stations. Tlw raw vnrsion will also bn made availahln, but sta­tion rnanagnrs will havn to rnakl' a spoc.ial nfTort to tapo it in advance. 
PBS is also warning its stations that if they want to put tlwm­solvns at risk of an FCC finn for language, the system ean't insure thorn, said sonior pro­gramming nxecutivn J;u:oba A.tlas. To air the raw version, sta­tions must sign a statnmnnt aeknowlndging the finandal risk is theirs. 
"It's a finandal dedsion," A.tlas said. "It's not a dneision that reflects on the merit that we think the film has." 
Fanning said ho wislwd this was something that PBS could take a stand on, but undnrstood why not. 
''I'm not upset about PBS," lw said. "We'rn upset that wn'rn put in thn position of having to make a special eireumstanen of this and PBS is put in the position of not being able to havn vinwnrs sen this." 
-

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 10 
Friday, February 18, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Tin JnJqnulnu, Daily N~WSJHIPn< s.r,.;,X Nt~~TF Dame 11nJ Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mart Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BusiNESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hertler  

NEWs EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAJ'HICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63I-7471 fAX (574) 63I-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 63I-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edilorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must he signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be dirt!cttd to Editor in Chief Matt Lozo.r. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht Ob~rvcr {USPS 59.9 24000} is published Mon!Uy through Friday ex<:ept during o.'Ulll and vaQtion periods. A~ubscription to The Observer i~ SIOO lor one academic year; S5S for flllC §Cffi"ter. 
The Obscm·r is publl~>hed at; POSTMASTER 
024 Sowh Dinin~ H.lll Send addi"CS.Ii corrections £o: Notre Dame, IN o16S56..f)779 Tht'Obs.erver Periodical ponage paid .u Notre Damr P.O. Box 779 and addi1iuna/ mJ..Iing. offkcs. 014 Soufh Dining Iiall 
Nom: Dame, IN 46556..0n9 
The 0\'ll.etvet i~ a member uf the A ...~ociated Pr~. ('Jl ~producti!in right.\ arc n~M:rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Nicole Zook Matt Puglisi Amanda Michaels Mike Gilloon Mary Kate Kevin Brennan Malone Scene Viewpoint KC Kenney Alyssa Illustrator Brauweiler Graham Ebetsch Graphics Graham Ebetsch 

Tuition increase discouraging 
Most graduates talk about the value of a Notre Dame education, emphasizing the academically, ethically and morally sound foun­dation they received as students. But "value" recently took on a different connotation. 
It's difficult to believe that just four years ago Notre Dame intro­duced its lowest tuition increase in 40 years, at 4.9 percent for the 2001-02 academic year. That's a very different story than last week, when the University "nnounced its third tuition increase in as many years that exceeds 6 percent. 
After the 2003 economic downturn led to endow­
O
Jhe
ment losses and budget cuts, Notre Dame burgeoning costs, Notre Dame could limit its appli­
userver 
increased its tuition by 6.5 percent for 2003-04, 6.9 cant pool because -whether their concerns are percent for 2004-05 and, most recently, 7 percent justified or not-prospective students will be dis­for 2005-06. couraged from applying to the school in the first 
Editorial 
If the current pace of tuition hikes continues, entering freshmen for the class of 2009 could be facing a total four-year tuition bill of approximately $140,000-not including room and board. With a possible room and board bill of $35,560, the "value" of a Notre Dame undergraduate education could top $175,560. 
Yes, the University is an expensive place to operate. Among other costs, it must be able to afford to pay top-notch administra­tors and professors, keep pace with the newest technology, contin­ue construction on new buildings and operate the campus power plant. But Notre Dame shouldn't have to sustain its growth on the backs of its students. 
It is surprising that only 9 percent of earnings on the University's $3 billion endowment are used to support daily opera-place. And increased tuition costs will lead to 
increased demands on fmancial aid, which only furthers the costly cycle for both sides. 
Notre Dame also raises the point that it is trying to keep pace with the rates charged by peer schools, such as Georgetown's $40,492 and Northwestern's $40,686 for tuition, room and board and fees in 2004-05. But the University has always prided itself on its history of educating students from various socioeconomic lev­els. Climbing into the academic elite does not mean Notre Dame must raise its costs to fit the mold. 
Notre Dame students are tbrtunate to receive an education that is valuable on so many fronts. It is unfortunate that by consistently increasing the burden of paying for that education, the University could force some students to choose one "value" over the other. 
V-Day mission unquestionable 
Since the first performance of the Vagina Monologues at Notre Day cannot eliminate these things, it may be the first voice Dame, the overriding question of whether the play belongs at a through which many people become aware of them. Catholic university has remained the same. Aspects of the Vagina Monologues might make some uncomfort­
There's no denying the dilemma. Academic departments may able, and Eve Ensler herself is still a controversial figure. But the sponsor it and students may attend, but parts of the play undoubt­overriding goal of the play, the movement and the author is to edly challenge the face of Catholic teaching on human sexuality. build respect for women. This goal is held in common with the Saint Mary's, Notre Dame's sister school, has refused to host the Catholic Church, which also holds respect for human life as a· play. sacred duty. Whether the play is the most effective 
But whether allowing the production of the means for building this respect is debatable, but Vagina Monologues is a violation of Catholic identi­OJhe any real dialogue about real problems started by V­
userver
ty is questionable. What is unquestionably a viola­day or the Vagina Monologues ought to be respect­tion of Catholic identity is to ignore the problems ed and needs to continue. that lie at the heart of the V-Day movement that Few beliefs strike as directly to the heart as reli­
Editorial 
has grown as a result of the play. V-Day is first and foremost an organization that works to stop violence against women, and is becoming increasingly effective at raising aware­ness of the pain experienced by women around the world. 
The issue of which words should be shouted on which colleges' campuses pales in comparison to the violations of human rights that V-Day brings to light. V-Day is growing in popularity around the world for its strong stance on violence against women in any form. Sexual assault against Native American women, acid attacks in Bangladesh, female infanticide in Asia and enforced prostitution in Europe and America are all realities, and while V­
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 

Do the Vagina Monologues belong at Notre Dame? 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 648 responses. 
tions, leaving tuition-at 60 percent-to bear much of the dif­ference. While financial operations are a sensitive and complicat­ed matter, and certainly should not be treated lightly, the University could benefit from a reassessment of both the sources of its funds and how it chooses to allocate them. Depending heavi­ly on tuition to secure a financial cushion should not become a habit. 
The University is justifying this increase by stating that it wishes 
to maintain its ability to meet 100 percent of stu­
dents' demonstrated fmancial need. But with the 
gion, sexuality and freedom of speech. Conflicts will inevitably arise when they are challenged. The University's line between Catholic identity and academic freedom has likewise always been contentious. Whether allowing the play at Notre Dame means relinquishing an authoritative position on Catholic teaching, or merely accepting the imperfect outside world, is diffi­cult to say. . 
But people who support or oppose the Vagina Monologues should still acknowledge a common and crucial goal. The charac­ter of the Vagina Monologues may still be questionable, but the value of the goals expressed by V-Day is not. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ am become Death, the destroyer of worlds. " 
J. Robert Oppenheimer physicist, Manhattan Project 






THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, February 18, 2005 page 11 
'Cafeteria _bishops' constrict views 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Silencing of viewpoint not the way to educate 
I wholeheartedly agree with Courtney Tawresey on an extremely salient point addressed in her Feb. 17 letter. The University of Notre Dame does indeed have a duty to educate its students. I am slightly confused, however, as to how the dis­semination of erroneous information and the complete prohibition of some information all together will aid the University in the discharge of this duty. 
propaganda-indeed. again, the complete absence of even a mention of abortion. Iler assertions to that end are simply wrong. 
Further. as an educational institu­tion, it is in fact the duty of this University to provide for its students a range of curricula, of viewpoints, of arguments and hot buttons to ponder and discuss and use to reach univer­sal truths. 
No one is asking you to like the show. No one is asking you to declare what your vagina would wear if it got dressed. The purpose of Eve Ensler's play, the mission of the Vagina Warriors and the objective of the academic departments sponsoring the show and the V-Day movement on campus is simply to challenge you. To engage you. To dialogue with you and to aspire to a higher level of learning and understanding than can ever be reached by only presenting a single side to the story. 
I can understand the anger 
with which you condemn those who spread the message of V-Day through the Vagina Monologues. 
Throughout histo­ry, those who have propounded a 
controversial message have been criticized and ostracized, 
even beaten and put to death. One example, central to 
Catholic belief and faith and teaching, comes immediately to my mind ... and oddly enough, it's in His name 
that you purport to ban the per­haps unpopular message of the Vagina Monologues. 
In my mind, no greater loss would be suffered by the University than the banning of any one viewpoint, no matter how controversial. There is no greater violence to women than keeping them shrouded in silence. 
Corey McDevitt 
Law Student 
Feb. 17 

'Intellectual diversity' not a valid justification 
Notre Dame Students are very familiar with the story of "Adam and Eve." After all, this is a Catholic university. Lately, however, students have been sur­rounded with other sideshows. Last week it was "Adam and Steve" during Notre Dame's 2nd Queer Film Festival. This week we had no Adam, just plain Eve, as in the controversial author of The Vagina Monologues, Eve Ensler. Oh. the pressure for next week. 
It's bad enough to hear "Notre Dame" and "queer" incessantly said together each time the Fightin' Irish travel to Boston College for football. but to have it as a Notre Dame event is shocking. Father Sorin must be rolling over in his grave. Notre Dame's outgoing president Monk Malloy needs another off-cam­pus academic conference to proclaim more shame in Notre Dame, but this time it would make sense. After all, many events lately are in direct conf1ict with the pope and our Bishop. So are we first and foremost catholic or Catholic here at Notre Dame? l think I'll shave my head until the day Catholicism rules again at Notre Dame. 
I read The Vagina Monologues before coming to Notre Dame. I attended the play at Washington Hall as a freshman. I found some uplifting content for women's rights and some moving storylines about abuse-interestingly, the best parts were extras written by Notre Dame students for the event-but I also found inappropriate content aplenty, especially if looked at through Catholic eyes. No one protesting this event at Notre Dame condones violence or abuse towards women. To the contrary. the protests are because people feel so strongly about the issues of rape, violence and abuse and they recognize this is not a true positive for that mission. We have some of the best minds in the country here at Notre Dame, yet certain people want us to believe we need Ensler's guidance to understand women's issues. God help us. 
As the Vagina Monologues now rotate to center stage, it's interesting to listen to the debate. Freshman Amanda Deckelman was quoted by The Observer say­ing the protesters don't understand Ensler's mission and that artistic expres­sion should be allowed "if we're going to be viewed as a learning environ­ment." Another freshman, Erin Horan, agreed with Deckelman, saying. "it is also about rape and violence about women." How right she is. After all, in case you haven't read it, in the Vagina Monologues, Ensler devotes an entire sto~y­line to a 13-year-old girl being statutorily raped by a 24-year-old female neigh­bor. The positive portrayal ends with the child telling us that "if it was rape, it was a good rape." Did she say good rape? Better call HesLife to update DuLac; apparently "good rape" is now condoned by Notre Dame in the name of aca­demic freedom, intellectual diversity and women's rights. Notre Dame, Our Mother. pray for us. 
Dave Daley 
1unior 
off-campu> 
Feb. 17 

During the past two weeks visitors to the Debartolo Performing Arts Cm1ter have twice been greeted by individuals dispensing leaflets with a Iotter from Bishop John D'Arcy of the 
Diocese of Fort John lnfranca 
Wayne-South Bend. Bishop D'Arcy has 
Dissident

written these letters 
Poetry

to criticize both the Quec~r Film Festival and more recently the Vagina \1onologues. The Bishop is certainly W!dl within his bounds to write such lPtters and to approve of their distri­bution to those attending both events. lie should be praised for reading the l!~xl of tlw Monologues, offering thoughtful reflection and perhaps Pnhancing the campus-wide debate regarding their merits and appropri­ateness. lie also, as he said in his 
most recPnt letter. has a certain "pas­
toral fnwdom" akin to academic free­dom. as well as an "obligation to 
teach." 
What are most interesting about IHshop I>'Arcy's pastoral letters. how­evnr. have been the issues he chooses to address. While Notre Dame has arguably strayed from Catholic teach­ing on war. workers' rights, economic j usticc and various other concerns it is only issues dealing with sexuality that seem of concern to the Bishop. As one former Notre Dame hall rector once said to me, through the way in which it directs its attention the Catholic Church often seems to expand the space between people's legs at the expense of everything beyond it. 
That being said I am not writing here to defend the Vagina Monologues. I find them to be of ques­tionable artistic merit and wonder whether the movement they have spawned is not perhaps stuck in a rut. performing the same play over and over again. I am not sure even Shakespeare's works could handle such numbing repetition. But lam also not interested nor do I consider myself sufficiently talented to write a sequel that will move things forward. That is another person's task and one I hope is taken up sooner rather than later. 
What I do believe is that the Bishop. and other Church leaders, must be challenged to speak out on other issues of concern to our university community and the wider world. It seems only predictable that when issues of sexuality present themselves Church leaders rush to the typewriter. Where was Bishop D'Arcy's voice regarding matters of workers' rights when students protested the University's relationship with Taco Bell? Where is his voice as Notre Dame's HOTC unit trains soldiers to fight a war the pope and other Vatican officials have questioned the morality of and justification for? Where are his letters questioning Notre Dame's selection as head of its Board of Trustees, a man who leads a law firm regarded by many as the nation's pre­mier union-busting outfit? 
On a related note, where are his demands for Notre Dame to actively pursue the commitment within Catholic Social Teaching to support unions and the rights of workers? Where are his letters demanding an investigation of the production of Notr~ Dame athletic apparel? Where is his voice questioning the tremen­dous wage discrepancies on this cam­pus or asking whether Notre Dame's School of Business sufficiently chal­lenges the ram pant consumerism within our culture? Have the pope and the Church not spoken out on matters related to all these issues? Why are these messages not being shared with the faithful? How can, using D'Arcy's own words, "the light coming from faith, or indeed from right reason" be "brought to bear" on these decisions? 
I do not question the integrity or the commitment of Bishop D'Arcy. What I do question is whether a decision to focus on only certain components of Church teaching by any Church leader is perhaps a self-defeating strategy. Like much of the Church faithful many Bishops appear to have chosen one side of the so-called "culture war." They appear content to proclaim only 
one half of the "consistent ethic of life." By focusing so intently on a small array of issues. often revolving 
around sexuality, they consequently 
marginalize both their own teachings 
and the Church. instead of affirming 
the integrity of both. 
In focusing on issues of sexuality, however. Bishop D'Arcy and many others seem to have chosen the easy road. The same c.an be said of a Notn~ Dame administration that appears to deem nothing more evil (and worthy of expulsion) than sex among unmar­ried students. Such a position does not demand thP same risk required by a willingness to challenge the rush to war and Notre Dame's tacit approval of it, to question a dominant culturn that seeks consumption often in place of spiritual full'illment and to speak ou't on behalf of workers hnre on Notre Dame's campus and those man­ufacturing our sports apparel thou­sands of miles away. The Catholic tra­dition speaks to each of these issues in a clear and often challenging voice. Where are our shepherds willing to raise their voices? 
-

John lnfranca is a theology gradu­ate student. /lis column appears every other Friday. lie can be reached at jinfranl@nd.edu. · 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not. neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Head the mission state­ments and the literature proffered to the com­munity by SOS and the YWCA. There is no pro-choice advocacy to be found. In fact, there's no men­tion of abortion, period. Instead. both groups sup­port and advocate safety and comfort and provide aid to women who have bnen victimized by violence. Go see the Vagina Monologues. Note again the lack of pro-choice 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Fighting in the 'Shadow of Rome' 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Writer 
"Shadow of Rome" is one of the few games in recent years to place the player in the shoes of a gladiator. There are many different arenas of combat, increasing in size and fame as the player progresses through the game. In addition to the broad array of settings, the game play itself is quite varied as well. 
The actual fighting segments vary over the course of the game. It starts off by placing the player in standard melees. As the player advances, however, different modes are earned with new missions like search-and-rescue and search-and­destroy. The enemies range from human form to animals. After all, what game about gladiators would be complete with­out a fight involving tigers? 
There's actually a story to complement the bloodshed. The game is set shortly after Caesar's assassination. Agrippa is a soldier, fighting for the glory of Rome, when he hears that Caesar was killed. He returns to Rome to find his father charged with murder and his mother killed. Through a turn of events, he finds himself fighting as a gladiator in hopes of finding a way to save his father from his mother's fate. The player begins to play the role of Agrippa as the game progress­es. 
To add more variety to the game play, the player also controls Caesar's nephew, Octavianus, as he searches the Senate for the truth. When playing as him, the game turns to stealth to avoid foes. Octavianus lacks the muscle and experience that Agrippa possesses, forcing him to rely on other means to accomplish his goals. 
Sadly, it is with Octavianus's parts of the game that it begins to slow down. While they are necessary to further the story, the player plods through those parts, looking forward for the next chance to control Agrippa. The fights in the Homan arenas are by far the high­lights of the game. The gamer can earn point for performing different moves, such as the Juicy Tomato. One can imag­ine what that move represents. Once enough points are obtained, the gamer can unlock new fighting techniques and become familiar with those. 
"Shadow of Rome" provides a gamer with a good experience. There's a lot that can be done within the game, and fans of the movie "Gladiator" will feel at home. While it's not the greatest out there, it's far from the worst. 
Contact Mark Bernenderfer at rnbernende@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of www.gamesfirst.com 


By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Writer 
The Oddworld universe is a rich, colorful world with a range of loveable, and less than loveable, characters. "Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath" is the latest installment in the series and it is quite possibly the best. 
The player takes on the role of the Stranger, a bounty hunter in the Oddworld universe. In a largely lawless land, the char­acter is the only source of justice that the people have. 
Set in a western backdrop, the game alternates from being familiar to completely alien. The towns look like typical western backdrops, but the inhabitants do not blend into this atmosphere. The denizens, known as clakkerz, are essentially giant chickens who are more than willing to toss a one­liner your way. The bad guys are dressed in typical western attire at first and talk the part but, like the clakkerz, are essentially completely different. 
"Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath" is also a departure from the previous games in the series, as it is the first first-person shooter in the series. However, classical Oddworld elements come into play as the player can switch to a more standard third person camera on the fly. The ability to switch between the two makes this one of the easi­est games to control ever released, as one can choose the correct camera for each sit­uation. 
Another first is the incorporation of live ammo. Instead of using lead, the Stranger fires ofT little critters, which help him take the bounties in alive. Some of the critters are quite funny as well. The Chippunks in particular are humorous as they can talk and are more than willing to do so. Firing them ofT is reminiscent of the squirrels on the Quad -a bonus within the game. 
It really is difficult trying to describe Oddworld for those who have never tried it. The odd, yet sympathetic, characters find a way to draw the player into the game like none other. The player can often relate to these creatures more easily than a lot of other video game protagonists. So, when looking to pick up a new game, ignore the usual fare. Try something a little odd. 
Contact Mark Bernenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 


Friday, February 18, 2005 
Gamecub 
ous period weapons of the war. 
By JOSH TALLEY Scene Writer 
The original "Call of Duty," for PC, was an amazing game that separated itself from the crowd of other first­person World War II shooters. It packed intense single-player action while adding good multiplayer inter­action. But much was lost when it was ported to Nintendo's Gamecube. 
Like the original, the game is com­prised of smaller campaigns told from the perspectives of different soldiers in the Soviet, British and American armies. This allows for varied settings and offers you the chance to experi­ence the "Great War" in different loca­tions with different weapons. During game-play, AI-controlled comrades accompany the character's side, who will fight by his side, protect him and even die for him as he accomplishes missions. There are several kinds of missions -riding in a jeep while shooting, planting explosives and destroying depots. The roughly 10 hours of game-play oll'ers a solid war re-creation, except for occasional frustrating errors in programming and bugs. 
One of the biggest errors is the lack of checkpoints or mid-level saving points. Some levels are incredibly hard and long, which makes the gamer play them over and over again to beat them. Another problem a gamer may find is that while the weapons look historically accurate, they are often inaccurate and force a player to waste precious ammo in 

Friday, February 18, 2005 
does not all of Duty' 
Pholo courtesy of www.morganlowngamers.com 
World War II Is at times successful game that focuses on the varl­
nr to dPfnat Pnnmins. 
<; nwadn usage is horri b ln. The rnnadns arn not allownd to "cook" in ~ hand, and the lnngth of the throw not lw varind. Also, thn game dons ot allow for grenades to bn placed via 
o unci n g. Tlw physics ll nginn is lmost non-existent with respnet to adns, which makns housH-dear­rg missions extn~mnly difl1eult. The 
nwr rwv1~r nn1~ds to eompensatn for rn are of gravity when distancing runitions. 
l'rnsnntation-wise, the graphics in n gamn are not nearly of the same uality as its PC counterpart. The aphies appear blotchy with notiee­ln sluggishnoss when many explo­s and charaeters 11ll the screen. dditionally, thn oxplosion graphics rn poor and look nothing like an ·tual explosion. The audio is avnrage 
it has tho basic voil:n work and arkgroimd noisns. but nothing spn­ial. 
Thn (;arrwcuhn vnrsion has no multi­laynr rnodn, which dotrads nnwnsnly from lim ovnrall valtw of 

n ganw. Also, the controls of tho arn horrnndous. A gamor must nrweessarily usn a health pack while ing to rnload or switch to an empty instnad of throwing a 
Tlw ganw is mndiocre. It is fun in a istoriral shooting eont1~xt. but other that. thorn are much better lirst­.rson shooting games on llw marknt particularly of the World War II 
:Ontact Josh Talley at jtalley2@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Page 13 

Dating-siinulator is 'Sprung' in An1erica 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Writer 

Some video games push technology further and further. But then there are the other games -games like "Sprung" -which do the opposite. 
Essentially a dating game. the player gets to choose from various conversation paths in efforts of wooing the girl of his choke. The game is broken up into mul­tiple chapters where the player can dwose different paths. They all lead to tho same conelusion. which then limits tlw interest in a replay. 
Control is limited to choosing the dia­logue and the occasional use of an item. This can lead to a tedious experience, as the game alternates from babying the player to be insanely obscure and diffi­cult. The monotony of' choosing what to say is broken up by simple "Simon says" style of game play, elements that have been around since the early days of video games. 
Designed for the Nintendo DS hand­held gaming system, this game makes decent use of the dual screens. The top half shows the target of the conversa­tion, while the bottom shows your per­sonal avatar. The characters react to the player's choices in suitable cartoon fash­ion. This has been done before -just not with two screens. 
The game does have some redenrning faetors. The humor in the game can at times be quite zany and good. It has nle­ments of typical .Japanese humor meshed with simple dating antics. This can lead to some humorous situations. At one point in the game the charactnr woos a self-described hippin. Halfway through the conversation with hnr, shn bncomes one with hnr animal spirit and her head is rnplaeed by a cow's. Tht~ character noticns this, .and is logic.ally thrown off' by the suddPn nwtamorpho­sis. 
While this dating gamn was sonwwhat popular in .Japan, it may not find tlw same success hnrn. It does have somP momnnts of gnnuinn humor, though. whieh allows some slight rndemption. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

In this date-simulating video game, which found more popularity in Japan than in the United States, players are offered a selec­tion of responses to give to potential romantic targets and their choice of response determines whether they get a date or not. 
1WarioWare' reinvented 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Writer 

Finally, a game for those with attention spans. whieh can only be measured in nano-seconds. "WarioWare: Touched!" is a crazy, addictive game, constantly cre­ating wacky scenarios for the player to usn the touch screen. Whether splitting logs in half, or helping a statue to put out a lire, the variety of mini-games in this gamP.s lives up to its predecessor. 
For the uninitiated. the first version of "WarioWare" came out on the original Gameboy Advance. It drew a cult follow­ing of fans through its quirky humor and countless mini-games. The player; during one moment, would be helping a disco dancer and his eat. and the next. they would be doing something entirely dif­ferent. The sheer variety and spontane­ity found in tho game always kept play­ers on their toes. 
Each round of the game begins with a clue in the form of a one-word phrase to direct the player to the nature of the mini-game. This word could be "divide," "eount," "cut" or one of many others. The player then looks at the challenge that they arc presented with, and must accomplish the objective within the live­second time limit. Sometimes the time limits are a little longer -sometimes shorter -but a sense of urgency is always placed upon the player. 
So much attontion has !wen plae1~d on the game's predecessor rathor than the game itself because tho soquel decided to use the same formula down to tho Iot­ter. While the story mode has obviously bnen updated, tho essential game play has not. A large numbor of opportunities to unlock bonuses have bnm1 added, giv­ing the game more replay value than before. 
Keeping the formula intaet doesn't hamper the game play at all, and the full employment of the touch screen can bo quite addictive. Thnre are certainly worse ways to waste time. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

In this new game for Nlntendo OS, Warlo returns to guide the player through a series of challenging mini-games. 'WarloWare:Touchedl" also recreates the old-fashioned Nlntendo feel with a quirky sense of humor and fast-paced action. 
page 14 

The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 18, 2005 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Devils blue, defeated by unranked Hokies 
Virginia Tech's Dowdell hits late 3-pointer for thrilling 67-65 victory over Duke 

Associated Press Trailing 54-49, the Hokies scored nine consecutive points BLACKSBURG. Va. -Zabian to take the lead, and drew two Dowdell made a 3-pointer with more fouls on Redick, sending 
14.6 seconds to play and him to the bench with four fouls Virginia Tech stunned No. 7 with 7:07 left. Duke 67-65 on Thursday night, Dixon drew the first, and con­one of the biggest victories in verted a three-point play, then 
Hokies history. added a 3-pointer from the 
The Hokies (13-10, 6-6 right corner after a scramble Atlantic Coast Conference) for a loose ball. ended a three-game losing After a turnover by the Blue streak against the most unlikely Devils, Gordon drove into the opponent, and a team that had lane, was fouled by Redick and beaten them 100-65 only 18 hit both shots, making it 58-54 days earlier at Cameron Indoor with 7:07 to play. Stadium. A 3-pointer by Redick started 
The finish was frantic, with a 12-6 run for Duke to begin the Duke's J.J. Redick hitting a 3-second half, give the Blue Devils pointer with 22.9 seconds left to a 48-41 advantage and making give the Blue Devils (18-4, 8-4) it look like they were finally a 65-64 lead and Dowdell com­taking control. ing right back with a jumper But after Redick missed a from the right wing that caused wide-open 3, Coleman Collins the sellout crowd to erupt as it brought the sellout crowd back swished through. to life with a putback dunk, 
After timeouts by each team, Duke turned it over and Dixon Duke inbounded the ball with scored on a drive to get the 
4.9 seconds left and Redick fed Hokies back in it, trailing 48-45. Daniel Ewing for a 3-point try The Blue Devils trailed much that missed. Hundreds of fans of the first half. but led 36-35 at rushed onto the court as the the break after Redick broke a clock struck 0.0. five-point Hokies run with his 
Carlos Dixon led the Hokies first 3-pointer. with 18 points and got Redick Earlier, the Hokies got two into foul trouble. Jamon Gordon baskets from Dixon and a four­added 17 points, Coleman point play by Dowdell to take a Collins 14 and 18 rebounds and 20-12 lead, but Duke rallied Dowdell 11. behind four points each from 

VIrginia Tech forward Carlos Dixon Is swarmed by fans after VIrginia Tech beat Duke 67-65 at
Redick. playing only about a Williams and Ewing to pull even 

Cassell Coliseum In Blacksburg, Va. The Hokles lost to the Blue Devils 100-65 Feb. 1.
40-minute drive from where he at 24-all. 

starred in high school in It was one of eight ties in the Roanoke. led Duke with 19 half. scored 16 of his 18 points in the Todd Townsend with 4 7 seconds Marquette a 61-50 lead. points on 7-for-16 shooting and Louisville 64, Marquette 61 second half, helping the 12th­left. The Cardinals scored seven was jeered all night. Shelden When the Louisville Cardinals ranked Cardinals avoid their Joe Chapman missed a hur­straight points, then Larry Williams had 16 points and found themselves down by 11 second loss in three games. ried 3-pointer just before the O'Bannon, who scored 15, was Ewing had 13. points to Marquette with 5:38 Travis Diener's 3-pointer at shot clock went off. fouled by Chapman with 1:37 
Redick brought the Blue left, they didn't think of turning the buzzer bounced off the rim. Then Ellis Myles grabbed the left. Devils back to 60-to their prolific "You couldn't ask for a better rebound for Louisville with 13 As he sank his first foul shot. all on a drive with offense to bail shot, I just missed it, missed it seconds left. Ryan Amoroso shoved Otis
"They played good

3:05 left. them out of bad. It was the story of my The Cardinals didn't call time­George to the floor, drawing a 
After Jeff king, a defense and we another upset. night," said Diener, who also out. setting up a screen that left foul himself. football tight end missed some "We had to win clanked two layups off the rim Garcia open for a 3-pointer. After O'Bannon sank his sec­who joined the this game with in the final minutes, finishing 2-"I was looking to create, but if ond shot, George stepped up
layups. I missed

team after the sea­defense, not off­for-16 from the floor in what they gave me the green light. I and sank two of his own, tying son, made a baby some lay ups ... I ense," Cardinals the senior called his worst col­was going to shoot," he said. itat61. hook to get the should be able to coach Rick Pitino legiate performance. After two timeouts, Diener got "That call at the end of the Hokies back in said after Fran­"They played good defense the ball just past midcourt and game on the push-off was cost­
make layups. " 

front, Williams cisco Garcia's 3-and we missed some layups. I had an off-balance shot at over­ly, (but) it was the right call." scored inside to tie pointer with 2.6 missed some layups. I'm sup­time, but it banged off the rim. said Marquette coach Tom it again, setting up Travis Diener seconds left posedly the best player on the Steve Novak's 14 points led Crean, who looked at the tape the thrilling finish. Marquette guard capped a 14-0 floor. I should be able to make Marquette (17 -8, 5-7). which right when he got into the lock­
Collins, 10-for-run that gave layups." was in prime position to secure er room. 1 0 from the line in Louisville a 64-61 The Golden Eagles tried to a confidence-building upset "Let's face it, the momentum a game earlier this year, missed win Thursday night. run the shot clock down in the against a team that handed the swing at the end with the free a pair with 1:11 left, but Redick The Cardinals clamped down final 5 minutes, and they ended Golden Eagles their worst loss throws is what made this a missed a 17 -footer at the other on the Golden Eagles, who up with hurried shots instead of ever -99-52 last month when game." end. turned the ball over once and good looks. Diener was sidelined by a foot But it was his team's close call 
Gordon then emerged from a missed three free throws, three "It's feast or famine some­injury. that left Crean with at least crowd under the Hokies basket 3-pointers, a jumper and two times when you do that," Pitino Marquette seemingly had the some solace. to tip in a miss, with just over layups on their final nine pos­said. game in hand after Diener sank "The best thing about tonight 32 seconds left. Redick then sessions. After Louisville (22-4, 10-2 two of three free throws and is our team realized that the nailed his third 3-pointer, "We just kept digging in on Conference USA) tied it at 61, then fed Novak for a 3-pointer game down in Louisville was a before Dowdell's big swish. defense," said Garci11, who Garcia turned over the ball to on the break that gave complete aberration," he said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrem without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

ND/SMC WOMEN: South Bend COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI-6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAM-professional couple seeks responsi-UMS AVAILABLE F0j;1 05-06 PUS.$195/PERSON. AVAIL 05·06. WANTED ble female. student(s) to provide FoR RENT SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED-329-0308 PERSONAL 
evening/overnight care for a few ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY 235­LOST: Clip-on earring, days for two daughters, ages 13 & DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW 7234 FOR MORE DETAIL COLLEGE PARK Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 silver flower 7. Located 1 mile from campus in LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Days $299! Includes Meals. with light purple rhinestones. historic district Must have own SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES Great 6-7 bdrm home available Academic Year. Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Lost on Sunday transportation. Get away. Earn LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS-6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail-Available June 1, 2005. Daytona $159! Cancun. Jamaica. after 11 :45 mass between extra money. Low-stress setting. ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED-able NOW. Both Close to Two(2) Bedrooms-2 Baths, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Basilica and Coleman Morse Call514-2169. E-mail ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND Washer/Dryer. Winning Company! or between TomMP@ MBM.org NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Security System, SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­Coleman Morse SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. Crimmins 574-229-3659 Fully Furnished. 6386 and the circle. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL Call626-441-1275 Reward. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-FOR RENT or Salvaty @ earthlink.net If St. Paul were around today · he
FoR SALE 

Call Lori 2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7-Exclusive Home would be on the radio! 233-3436 95 Cougar XR7. 8-1 0 BEDROOMS. HOUSES Stables 2 bdrm condo on the lake www.SouthBendCatholicRadio.com 
Low mileage, GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB-and Indoor Arena. w/loft. Local alumnus sweet ride. SITEWWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM Indoor swimming pool & Sauna. 1-car garage,close to NO. pain of discipline, pain of regret looking for experienced babysitter. $4,000. OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-Call for details $650/mo. Caii360-1617. Call 634-4400. 2436 OR 574-315-5032. Judy 574-298-6217 Call317-815-1329. 197 days till football season 
Friday, February 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Wells takes shots at Yanks 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -After switehing sides and joining the Boston Hed Sox, David Wells quiekly had some choice words for the New York Yankees. 
The Boomer reported to spring training on Thursday, saying Alex Hodriguez "has to oarn it" and admitting he did­n't get along wilh Yankeos manager Joe Torm. 
"Maybe I did wear out my wnleome there," Wells said. 
At tho Yankees' camp, Bandy Johnson playfully got into it, too. The Big Unit said he didn't think that merely by signing with the Yankens hn'd join A-Hod as a target of the Hnd Sox and their fans.1 
"I haven't donn anything to thnrn," he said. 
Not yet. but his job is to lead tho Yankees to their first title sinen 2000 and dnny the Hed Sox a sneond straight World 
Series championship. "So they'll be mad at me if I 
pitch  well  against  them?  
Bring it on  then," he said,  
laughing.  

"So I guess I'm a target. but I'm going to go out there and do the best I ean," Johnson said. ''I'm not going to bo fir­ing quotes and stuff like that to make myself more of a tar­get, that's for sure. I'll leave that to other people that can do that better than I probably could." 
As Johnson pitched his first bullpeh session at Legends Field, former Arizona team­mate Curt Schilling and Wells arrived at Boston's training eamp in Fort Myers. Wells, who helped New York win two AL pennants and one World Series, wasn't pleased with some of Hodriguez's remarks. 
"I remember reading the press conference or some­thing when he went there," Wells said. "lie said: 'When 
Post-Valentine's Day Clearance Sale At Irish Gardens! 

All roses half off, beautiful selection remaining 20% off everything else in the store 
Sale Thursday and Friday, or while supplies last! 
Irish Gardens Florist Basement of LaFortune 12:30-5:30 pm, Monday-Saturday (574) 631-4004 

JPW is this weekend ... order corsages and boutonnieres for your parents today! 
Public Lecture 

The Voice of the Faithful: 
BeyondPay, Pray & Obey 
David Castaldi Monday, February 21, 2005· 7:30pm 122 Mendoza College of Busines 
Sponsored by The Community of La Esperanza Center for Social Concerns and the 

we.' He said a 'we' in his comment about like he's won like three or four rings with them and he hadn't, and that kind of disturbed me. 
"He shouldn't put himself in that category," added Wells. "You've got to earn it. It's like he's been there the whole time. But you can't take away what A-Hod has done for the game. He's a great player, and he will continue to be a great player." 
As for Torre and pitching coaeh Mel Stottlemyre, Wells remembered difficult times. 
''I've never had a good rela­tionship with Joe," he said. "Wn've had a few run-ins and Mel Stottlemyre as well, and Mel's probably the best pitch­ing coach I probably ever had. But just when you have run­ins like that, it just leaves a sour taste, and who needs it? I can understand their point and, hopefully, they can understand mine. But like I said, there's no hard feelings, one way or another. Life goes on. You move on. Now I'm in a Boston uniform. Now it's my job to go out and prove to myself that I can still pitch at this level and go out there and beat the Yankees." 
Wells called New York gen­eral manager Cashman after last season: 
"I told him if there was any interest I'd love to come back to New York and play, and Brian told me that, 'We'd love to have you but the. Boss [George Steinbrenner] is look­ing in another direction. We're going to go with youth this year.' Then they turn around and sign Handy." 
Jd!/American Cancer Society Jd!/ Daffodil Days 
$6 for a Bunch of Flowers $4 for a Vase 
Orders Due by Monday, February 28, 2005 Flowers will be delivered Thursday, March 17, 2005 
You can place an order in your dorm, or you can email or campus mail orders to: Michele Taets (mtaets@nd.edu, 307 Badin Hall) (Include your name and address with the amount of bunches/vases) 
Please make checks payable to: 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Wo111en 111ove a day closer to a ninth title 
By MIKE TENNANT Sports Writer 
The Irish started oil' on the right foot in their pursuit of a ninth straight Big East title, setting a couple new school meords in the process. 
After the first day ol' action in East Meadow, N.Y., Notre Dame and Pittsburgh sit tied atop the leaderboard with 72 points apiece. Hutgers -runner-up the last thrnn years -is a dose third with 68 points. 
After Thursday's morning pre­liminaries, the Irish were sitting pretty with a meet-best nine swimmers advaneing to the cham­pionship finals. Notre Dame also boasted the top qualifier in three of the limr evenl<> held Thursday. 
The Irish broke out to a fast start Wednesday, winning the very first event, the 800-yard freestyle relay. 
The team of freshman Caroline Johnson and sophomores Ellen Johnson, Katie Carroll and Hebeeca Grove finished with a time of 7:16.95, breaking the sehool record by more than three seconds. 
The previous reeord had been set at last year's Big East Championship by a team that included Ellen Johnson and Carroll. 
Hutgers finished second, but was more than throe seeonds behind the Irish squad. 
The Notre Dame school record was also good enough for an NCAA "B" cut, so they will be con­sidered for a bid to the NCAA Championships. This was the first "B" eut for an Irish relay team this 
sna<>on. 
The Irish kept up the intensity Thursday with a total of 12 swim­mers competing in the evening session. 
Firth-year senior Meghan Perry­Eaton wa<> the top qualifier ofT' tho 1-meter board, and will look to continue her dominanee ol' the Big East. llcr sei1re of 297.75 was 
72.6 point<; ahnad of the noxt dos­nst diver. Perry-Eaton was namnd Big East Championships Most. Outstanding Swimmer the past two ynars, taking home throe eon­femnee titles in that streteh. 
Also earning a spot in the onP­meter board finals was freshman Tara llyer, who qualified fourth with a score of 221.20 
Notehing tup marks in the pre­lims were sophomore Katie Carroll in the 200-yard individual medley and sophomore Ellen Johnson in thn 500-yard fmestyle. 
The 200 IM proved to be the Irish's best event yet, posting timr of the top seven times in the morning prelims. Notrn Damn also sent two other swimmers to the consolation championship in the event, leaving the Irish with six swimmers able to seoro poinl'> liw the team. 
Johnson posted an NCAA "If' cut in the 500 fmestyle, the third "B" eut she has hit this sea'ion. 
In the final event of the day, tho 50-yard freestyle, Caroline Johnson and Grove both qualified for tho finals, finishing seeond and sixth, respectively. Freshman Katie Guida posted the eleventh best score, giving her a spot in the eonsolation championship round. 
Contact Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 
Shaheen Lecture Series 

American Cancer Society 
-

.-----------------~----------­
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, February 18, 2005 
NFL 

Chargers put the franchise tag on QB Brees 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO-For a guy who wasn't expected to do much last season, Drew Brees sure got a nice raise. 
The San Diego Chargers used their franchise tag Thursday on Brees and will offer him a one-year contract at just more than $8 million. 
The quarterback made $1.56 million in base pay last season, when he led the Chargers out of the NFL's basement to the AFC West title at 12-4. 
The Chargers needed to put the tag on Brees, the NFL's Comeback Player of the Year, to keep him from leaving as an unrestricted free agent. 
"Franchising him is a no­brainer because if we didn't, we wouldn't get any compensa­tion and he wouldn't be here, he'd be going to the airport," general manager A.J. Smith said. "We want him to be our quarterback. I mean, a little bit over $8 million for one year, for a quarterback, I think, tells you -clearly what we think of his abilities and his talent. We want him to be our quarter­back." 
Brees rebounded from a nightmarish 2003 season to lead the Chargers to their first playoff berth in nine seasons. He also was voted to the Pro Bowl. 
Brees has said he wants a long-term deal from the Chargers, but Smith said the team currently is not interested in offering one. 
Brees, on vacation in Australia with his wife, said in a statement issued by the team that he was happy to remain in 
: ERASMUS BOOKS : • Used Books bought and sold : • 25 Categories of Books •• 25,000 Hardback and : Paperback books in stock : • Out-of-Print search service 
'• Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 


Sonday Marth 20 •7:30 p.m. Morris Performing Arts Center South Bend, Indiana 
Tickvts Go On Solv n::::._;r This Saturday ~_]] 
February 19 
at 10:00 a.m.! 
TkkQts Gwilabh2 at Morris Box Offic• Chargct by phonct 574/215-9190 or 800/531-6415 on-llnct at www.morrisccrntvr.org 
.:;{/j~llJ(.:r 
San Diego. 
"We've built a solid founda­tion and I feel we can really make a run. I'm excited about beirig a part of that," Brees said. 
His salary for 2005 is the average of the top five salaried quarterbacks from last season. 
The Chargers could trade Brees, but a team interested in him would want to negotiate a long-term contract before final­izing a deal. . 

Brees was tagged as a non­exclusive franchise player, meaning he can still negotiate with other teams. Should Brees receive an offer from another team, the Chargers can either match it or receive two first­round choices from that elub as compensation for losing Brees. 
Smith said he made it clear to Brees' agent, Tom Condon, that the Chargers will insist on two No.1 picks. 
"If any offer comes, some­times it's nexible where you can work with an agent and have a less thing," Smith said. "We're not looking to move Drew Brees anywhere. We're expecting him to be our quar­terback." 
Condon plans to check other teams' interest in Brees. But he said that if Brees were to leave San Diego this year, it'd likely be via a trade rather than an offer sheet and its steep price of two No. 1 's. 
"From our standpoint, $8 mil­lion and change, that's more monny than he made in his first four years," Condon said. "It's hard to be unhappy if you're Drew. All in all, it's probably what we expected." 
At this time last year, Brees was eoming off a 4-12 season in whieh he threw 15 intercep­tions and just 11 touchdown passes, was benehed for five straight games and yanked from two others. 

...._....._,~--· calli~~rea. Mobile Messaging 
U.S. Cellular-approved pt!one and 

minutes are availablll in loeat calling """' "'""""'"" !*iniini~ anrAenilAilt on local and tll!)klnal plans of $39.95 or agreemaillS·subject to an earty termination fee. Otller Regulatory charge applies. This Is not a tax const11u1es acceptance Qf our terms and conditions. 
Friday, February 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
ND leading after first day 
By ANN LOUGHERY 
Sports Writer 
.lust two days into Big East 1~ompntilion, thn Irish are aln~ady wPII on tlwir way to a rharn pionsh i p. 
Alkr Thursday's compdition, llw Irish have rocketnd to lirsl placn with ]02 poinlo.; and a !i4­point advanlagn ovqr sncond­placn l'itLo.;burgh. This is tlw lirsl t.imn NotrP llamn has nver lin­istu~d a day in tlu~ Big East Championship in lhn lnad. 
"Wn'rn swimming at tlw lop of our ganw and loving it," coach Tim W1~lsh said. "This is all cele­bration of llw gn•al work we've dorw all snason." 
Tim KngPlman lnd tho Irish nll'orl Thursday night, winning llw 200-yar·d individual nwdlny with a timn of I :49.62-just .14 snmnds oil' from his own school n~corcl. lin was lhn first Nolrn Damn swimnwr to nwr win lhn nvenl at a Big I•:m;t rnnnl. 
Kngnlman truly narnnd his first-placn finish, said senior Mall Bnrlkn. Arter surging to lirst plaee, the sophomorn suf­lim~d an asthma attack midway through thn race. Dnspile the setback, Kngnlman managnd to rPlain his position and linishml in lirst placn. 
"IKegnlmanl has just been unlmlinvable," Bnrtke said. "lie's bPPn an inspiration l(,r the whole lPam." 
Later in thP meet, Kegelrnan anchored the 200-yard fmestyle rnlay and spurrPd lhn learn to a second-plaee finish -Notre I>amn's highnst-ever in the nvnnt -with 1:20.64. Pittsburgh dainwd lirst placP, winning by .09 snconds. 
Sophomore Ted Brown and freshman Jay Vanden Bnrg addPd to the lPam 's slPIIar pPr­l'ormanl~ns, lying li1r third place in thP !iOO-mnter frPn with 4:2fdQ. Brown cut .06 seconds ofl' of his school rncord with the swim. 
In the 200-yard individual medlny, junior Jamin Lutkus fin­ished lnss than a seeond behind Kngelman with I :!i0.87 for li1urth plaen. Freshman Andrew McKay l'inished in l'il'th place with I :50.87 and senior David Moisan came in sixth with 1:!i2.31. 
Finally, in the 50-yard free, senior Frank Krakowski lead the Irish nlli1rLo.; in fi1urth place with 20.56, the fourth-fastest lime in Notrn Dame history. Sophomore J.ouis Cavadini was dose behind in sixth place with 20.65. Thursday's races were charac­lnristie of the team's high level of intensity the entire mnel, Bertke said. 

bonn strong in a lot of events," Bertke said. 'This is the start of a lot of ~-,rreat things." 
Notre Dame had a strong start to the competition, breaking rneords in thn 800-yard Lrnestylo relay and the 200-yard mmlley rnlay for a second-plaeo standing in the competition. In the 200 medley relay, tho linal event of tho night, junior Doug Bauman and sophomores Tim Bandolph, Kegelman and Krakowski fin­ished in second place with a time of I :30.12. Last year the samo relay learn finished l(mrth with a lime of 1:30.12. The four also earned all-Big East honors for their pnrfimnancn. 
In the 800-yard frnn rnlay, tho quartet of Bertke, Brown, sopho­more Brian Frenman and Cavadini broke the school record by nearly two seconds with a time of (,:40.79, good for a l'ourth-place finish. 
Froshman Sam Stoner led the divers, qualifying filth in the one­meter springboard with a score of269.35. 
But despite the success the Irish have enjoyed, Welsh said the Irish remain mindful of the talent the other teams possess. 
"There are still two full days to go," Welsh said. 'There's still a Jot of game to play." 
"Wo've already had a lot of Contact Ann Loughery at gnmt performanees and we've alougher@nd.edu 
MEN'S TRACK 

Irish look to build on past Big East success 
Irish hope to extend nine-year streak of top finishes at event 
By JOHN EVERETT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish are looking to extend their history of excel­lence at the Big East Indoor Championships in Syracusn, 
N.Y. this weekend. 
This is Notre Dame's 10th soa­son in Big East competition, and at each of the previous nine Indoor Championships tlw Irish have placed in thn lop thrnn. 
Notre Dame won the meet two years ago and was narrowly defeated last year by Connecticut. 
Notre Dame's strongest com­petition is expncted to come from the Rutgers. 
The Irish feature many ath­letes with the best in-eonfnrenee times in thc~ir rnspective events, so expectations for this meet run high. 
Selim Nurudeen's 60-meter hurdle time of 7.81 seconds has not been challenged this season. 
Nurudeen may also run in this weekend's 60-meter dash and the 200-nwtnrs. 
Notre Dame fnaturns pnrhaps thn lop three rumwrs in lhP 60­mntnr dash, with Dwight J.:llirk leading thn way with his leag!H~­best t.inw of 6.81 snnll!ds and followed closely hy Tnrrail J.ambnrt and NunuJnnrL 
Kurt Benninger, who ran just t.hn third sub-four-minutn miln in Notn~ Damn history at tlw Mnyo Invitational, is tlw pre­sumptive favorite in that rar1~ and a r.onlnrHier in the 3000­nwters as well. Adam CurriP, Austin Wechlnr and Trevor McCiain-Duer are expnetnd to earn points for the Irish in the SOO-, !iOO-and 400-metnrs, respectively. 
Notre Damn will also bn look­ing to garnor points in thn linld events. 
Chris Staron has the third b1~st high-jump mark in llw confnr­nnen this ynar, with a !wight of 6-7. 
.Justin Oppel and Dave Vikon could both finish within the top live in tho polo vault, and Chris Hobnrts could do the same in the weight throw. The meet will be held both tomorrow and Sunday at the Carrier Domn. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Wildcats slated to visit Eck Tennis Pavillion 
After playing eight of their last The Irish have excelled on their same speed as ours so thorn really of the year. II' you look at their
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
nine matches in familiar quarters, home front this season, winning won't be a big adjustment." scorns, lhoy'vn jumped, and tlw 
Spun~ Writer 
the Irish will dose out thn current all but seven of their nine home Northwestern will bring anolhnr team's playing at a very high 
stretch of the home schedule matehes so far. Their most top-40 challenge for tho Irish. level." 
For the past month, the Irish against the Wildcalo.;. impressive wins have come The Wildcalo.; have gainnd a lot Thn two teams have met fre­have nnjoyml the c~omlilrl'i of play­"We're really excited about the against two top-40 ranked foes -of experience competing against quently throughout t.lw ynars. The ing in the friondly eonlinns of the opportunity to play a really good a 5-2 decision over then-No. 18 high-caliber teams. They also bnal Wildcats hold a 37-33 all-time J·:ck Tmmis Pavilion. But with a team," Notre Dame coach Bobby North Carolina and a 4-3 win over North Carolina and played limr of advantagn over the Irish. But gnrnling road trip looming, tho Bayliss said. "[Northwestern[ then-No. 40 Florida State. their last live matches against top-Notre Damn won the most recent team int.Pnds to make thc~ most ol' played a great match against ''I'm sure that every team is just 25 teams. meeting between the two teams, tonight's homo stand. Mississippi, who's ranknd No. 6 in a little more comfortable on thnir "It has to make you better," nseaping with a !i-2 dedsion hLo.;l 
No. 2:l Notre Damn (S-2) plays the country. They just beat North home eourLo.;," BaylL<>s said. "It'll be Bayliss said. "I think you improve year in a dose mateh at iLo.; linal home match liw almost a Carolina. who's No. 18. So we an advantage to be at home, hut when you play better competition. Northwest1~rn. month tonight, faring No. 40 know we've got our hands full and Northwestern has a terrific indoor . So I know [Norlhwestnrn'sl a lot "Last year's match W<L'i a barn­Northwnst1~rn (!i-3). we nnnd to play really well." ladlity. Their courts are about the bntter than they wore at thn start burner," Bayliss said. "Wo 1~mled 

Please join us for a Junior Parents Reception in the ACE office 2:00-4:00 pn1 on Friday, February 18 
It 'II he a Rreat opportunity to di.\'Cli.\'S the po....·sibility (~/'post-graduate sen•ice! 
up winning a eouplo of thmo-snl­ters late to sneak out ol' llwre with a win, but. wn wen~ down most of the mateh and somehow muted up on top. It was orw of t.lw highlighLo.; of our sn<L'ion." 

The stilli~st dmllengo liw t.he sin­gles matehns will r.omn l'rom Northwestern's Tommy Hanus. The senior, who plays at the No. I spot l'or the Wildmts, lost 7-!i in the third sol against Catalin Card ol' Mississippi, the No. l singlns player in llw country, Tw~sday. 
"I know Brent ID'Amieol will have to play nxtrnnwly WPII to beat lllanusl." Bayliss said. "But Brent's playing good tennis right now, so we'll snn how it goos." 

Notre Damn is coming oil' two solid pnrli~rmanens I<L'il wnnknnd. beating both Marquette and the University ol' Indianapolis in 7-0 dndsions. 
Tho Irish only dropped on1~ sol on their way to the two vidories. 
The two sweeps lwlped vault Notre Dame six spots in the lntereollngiale Tennis Association's national rankings, fhnn No. 29 to No. 2:t 
The Irish will try to continue this winning strnak tonight at 8 p.m. in thn Eek Tnnnis Pavilion. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 


OUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPlLED fROM 'fHE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Friday, February 18, 2005 
College Baseball Baseball America Top 25 
team  record  
1  Tulane  3-0  
2  Louisiana State  2-0  
3  Cal State Fullerton  4-1  
4  Texas  7-0  
5  Miami  7-0  
6  Stanford  7-2  
7  South Carolina  3-0  
8  Baylor  3-0  
9  Georgia  0-0  
10  Arizona  6-0  
11  Arizona State  6-4  
12  Washington  0-3  
13  North Carolina  0-0  
14  TexasA&M  1-2  
15  Florida  2-1  
16  Mississippi  0-0  
17  Rice  3-1  
18  Vanderbilt  0-0  
19  UC Irvine  5-1  
20  Long Beach State  5-3  
21  Georgia Tech  2-1  
22  NOTRE OAME  0-0  
23  Texas Christian  3-0  
24  Oral Roberts  3-0  
25  Winthrop  4-0  

Men's Track arid Field Trackwire Top 25 
projected team meet points 
1 Arkansas 82 
2 Indiana 39 
3 Michigan 31 
4 Florida 31 
4 Wisconsin 30 
6 Texas 28 
7 LSU 23 
8 Auburn 21 
9 Florida State 21 
9 Nebrasaka 21 
11 Oregon 19 
11 Oklahoma 19 
13 Texas Tech 17 
'.:·:nv
14 Arizona 16 
14 Arizona State 16 
1fi East Carolina 16 
16 Mississippi 16 
16 Baylor 16 
19 Kansas Stale 16 
20 Colorado State 15 
20 BYU 14 
22 Virginia Tech 13 
22 Tennessee 10 
22 TexasA&M 10 
25 UCLA 9 
25 George Mason 9 
MIAA Women's Basketball 
team MIAA overall 
Hope 14-1 22-2 Albion 13-2 21-3 Calvin 12-3 18,4 Tri-State 7-9 10-15 Alma . 6·9 11-10 Kalamazoo 5-10 10~14 SAINT MARY'S 5·10 10-14 Adrian 4~11 8'-15 Olivet 2-13 7-16 
around the dial 
NBA 
All-Star Celebrity Game, 7 p.m., ESPN All-Star Rookie Challenge, 9 p.m., TNT 
EXTREME SPORTS Winter X Games Nine, 4 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

BOSTON -New England Patriots linebacker Tedy Bruschi has a broken blood vessel in his head and might have had a minor stroke, according to newspaper reports. 
Bruschi was taken to Massachusetts General Hospital on Wednesday with unexplained headaches. 
"He's having blurred vision, numb­ness on the right side of his body," his wife, Heidi Bruschi, was heard telling a dispatcher on a tape of the 911 call. 
The possibility that he had suffered a stroke was reported in Thursday editions of the Boston Herald, which cited unidentified sources. The story also said Bruschi suffered lost vision. 
The Boston Globe, citing an unidentified team source, reported on its website Thursday that Bruschi had 
IN BRIEF 

Moore sues Bertuzzi for 
'unprovoked hit' 
DENVER -Former Colorado Avalanche player Steve Moore filed a lawsuit against the Vancouver Canucks forward Todd Bertuzzi, who pleaded guilty to assault after slugging Moore in the head from behind during a game last season. 
Moore's attorney, Lee Foreman, said in a statement that the lawsuit filed Tuesday in Denver District Court accuses Todd Bertuzzi of civil conspir­acy, assault, battery and negligence. 
Bertuzzi pleaded guilty to criminal assault and was given a conditional discharge in December, more than nine months after the attack during a game in Vancouver. He faced up to 18 months in prison. He also was sus­pended indefinitely from the NHL. 
Moore has not completely recovered from the broken neck and concussion he suffered. The Avalanche did not re­sign Moore, who is an unrestricted free agent. 
a broken blood vessel in his head and suffered from partial paralysis that has since gone away. A broken blood vessel can cause a stroke if it deprives the brain of oxygen. 
Patriots spokesman Stacey James said Thursday that any information on Bruschi's condition would come from the player or his family. Bruschi spent Wednesday night at the hospital and more tests were scheduled for Thursday morning, James said. 
"He is in good condition and will be held for further evaluations," the team said in a statement. "The Bruschi family appreciates everyone's concern, but requests that you respect their privacy at this time." 
A spokeswoman for Massachusetts General Hospital would neither con­firm nor deny that Bruschi had been admitted and referred all questions to 
Former soccer great Omar 
Sivori dies 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina-Former soccer great Enrique Omar Sivori, who helped Argentina's River Plate and Juventus of Italy to numerous titles, died Thursday. He was 69. 
Sivori passed away in San Nicolas, a community north of this capital in Buenos Aires province, where he was born in 1935. He went on to shine in numerous local championships with River Plate, the famed Buenos Aires club, and later in Italian league play in the 1950s. 
Sivori made his debut at River Plate at age 17. In 1957 he was picked up by Juventus, where he helped the Italian squad capture league titles in 1958, 1960 and 1961. He also helped Juventus to two Italian Cup champi­onships, in 1959 and 1960. 
The Argentine television network TodosNoticias reported he had pancre­atic cancer, but the family reported no further details 
the Patriots. Patriots owner Robert Kraft, who was attending the men's college basketball game between Boston College and Rutgers on Wednesday night, declined comment. 
A nine-year NFL veteran, Bruschi is the centerpiece of the Patriots defense that helped the team win three of the past four Super Bowls, including a 24-21 win over the Philadelphia Eagles on Feb. 6. 
On Sunday, Bruschi played in his first Pro Bowl. 
Bruschi, 31, was selected as the AFC's Defensive Player of the Week three times, including the first-round playoff victory over the Indianapolis Colts. A second team Associated Press All-Pro selection, he ranked second on the team with 128 tackles and tied for second with three inter­ceptions. 
Auburn signs Tu.berville to 
seven year extensmn 
AUBURN, Ala. -Auburn coach Tommy Tuberville has signed a new seven-year contract that will pay him $2 million this year and increase by $200,000 each successive year. 
Tuberville and the school agreed in principle to the deal in December, about a week before the Tigers com­pleted a 13-0 season with a 16-13 vic­tory over Virginia Tech in the Sugar Bowl. 
The contract announced Thursday by the school will pay Tuberville a base salary of $210,000, with the remainder coming from endorsements and radio and television deals. Tuberville's previous package was worth $1.5 million. 
Auburn's buyout and Tuberville's penalty for leaving is $7 million for the frrst two years of the contract, $6 mil­lion for 2007-08, $5 million for 2009, $4 million for 2010 and $3 million for 2011. 
~ 
Friday, February 18, 2005 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish lock horns with pair of top-10 opponents 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
This weekend should be a challenge for the No. 21 Irish (4-2) as they prepare Jto face two top-1 0 opponents -Duke and North Carolina. 
The team will play against No. 6 Duke (5-1), who is fresh off a 7-0 victory over Old Dominion last Wednesday, today at 3 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, 
"We are more talented than Old Dominion so I talked with [my team) about not giving [them) any kind of confidence," Duke coach Jamie Ashworth told goduke.com after the win. 
"The longer they hang around you start to get close matches." 
However, this is the exactly the predicament the Irish have found themselves in lately against opponents such as Harvard -unable to win the close matches. After leading the Crimson 3-1, the Irish failed to convert a win in the final three singles matches to drop the match 4-3 to Harvard. 
"We've been in every match this year," sophomore Christian Thompson said. "But now it is about winning the close ones." 
Leading the Irish today in doubles will be Christian and sister Catrina Thompson at No. 

1 -they are currently ranked as the No. 2 ranked pairing in the nation. 
They have yet to lose a match this spring. Playing at No. 2 will be freshman Brook Buck and junior Lauren Connelly. Senior Sarah Jane 
Connelly  and  junior  Kiki  
Stastny will play at No. 3.  
But  Irish  coach  Jay  

Louderback wants the team to focus on more than just trying to win the doubles point and head into the singles matches with an advantage. 
"The doubles has been big all along," he said. "But we have to back it up and get at least three great singles matches." 
Playing at No. 1 for the team is No. 69 ranked Catrina Thompson, who defeated No. 27 ranked Courtney Bergman from Harvard last weekend. 
"She has been playing really well, even the matches she's lost this spring she's played well. She's come up with some big wins and it is coming· through into her singles," Louderback said. "She is play­ing with a lot more patience and willing to hit more balls until she has a chance to finish off the points." 
At No. 2 will be No. 85 Buck, followed by Christian Thompson at No. 3. Playing at No. 4 and 5 are Lauren Connelly and Stastny. At No. 6 will be junior Liz Donohue. 
Louderback said he is proud of the team's performance this season. 
"(Stastny) and Lauren arc both 5-1 in singles and they've been great," Louderback said. "We have gotten a lot of wins out of them." 
The Irish will take on No. 9 North Carolina this Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 10 
a.m. Neither team looks to be a pushover. 
"Both are deserving of their top-10 rankings," Louderback said. "But we are looking at [these matches) as a way of getting a great win." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles set to battle Olivet in final regular season contest 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Sorts Writer 
Fresh off a 58-50 conference victory over the Kalamazoo Hornets, Saint Mary's hopes to make it two in a row and gain some momentum before the MIAA tournament against last place Olivet Comets Saturday at 3 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Center. 
Saint Mary's (10-14, 5-10 in the MIAA) is tied with Kalamazoo for sixth place in the conference. 
A win over the Comets (7­16, 2-13), coupled with a Hornets loss to the Alma Scots, would give the Belles the sixth seed in the MIAA tournament. 
A Kalamazoo win, however, 

INCOME TAX PREPARATION Daniel F. Osberger, CPA & MBA Call to Meet at Your Campus Office or Home W: 246-1165 C: 514-7453 OAJH' riNANCIAL SERVICES Osberger Accounting Solutions & Investment Services 203 S. Ironwood Drive South Bend, IN 46556 E-mail: Dan. ( )sberger@Comcast.N et  

Youth Ministry Coordinator Want to use your talents to make a difference in the lives of teens? Do you live out your Catholic faith daily and possess a strong commitment to personal spirituality? Are you inter­ested in developing, maintaining and evaluating programs that reflect the eight components of Youth Ministry ­Advocacy, Catechesis, Community Life, Evangelization, Justice and Service, Leadership Development, Pastoral Care, Prayer and Worship? Holy Name of Jesus, a mid-size parish in the Indianapolis South Deanery, is looking for a full-time Youth Ministry Coordinator to meet the social, spiritual and active needs of our youth while inspiring traditional Catholic values and actions. Qualifications include a bachelor's degree and completion of (or willingness to complete) youth ministry certification. Salary will be commensurate with experience. To receive a packet with more information please send resume by February 28 to Youth Ministry Search Committee, C/0 Teri Duell, 89 North 17th Avenue, Beech Grove, IN 46107; or tduell@holyname.cc  

would create a three-way tie between Saint Mary's, Alma and the Hornets. 
Whoever ends up in the six seed will probably face Albion in the first round. 
The Belles have played the Britons tough in two meetings this year but came up on the short end both times. 
Before the conference tour­nament settles itself out, though, the Belles have to concentrate on beating the MIAA cellar-dweller Comets. 
After Saturday's loss to Alma, Belle's forward Alison Kessler reflected in a confi­dent Saint Mary's locker room heading into the final week of the season. 
"Our expectations are to win the [Kalamazoo and Olivet) games, without a doubt," Kessler said. 
The Comets have struggled this season and are currently riding a 10-game losing streak. 
They have been especially bad away from the Upton Center, recording a 2-8 record in road games. 
Junir guard Kari Searles has led Olivet all season, by aver­aging 11.3 points per game. 
Sophomore forward Stephanie Smith has also come on strong in recent games. 
Smith scored 13 points in the Comets' 100-87 loss to Tri-State Wednesday. 
The task of guarding Smith will probably fall to Belles star forward Emily Creachbaum. Creachbaum will be playing her final home game in the Angela Center, along with fel­low seniors Katie Boyce and Dcidre Mangan. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorcy@nd.edu 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
Friday, February 18, 2005 7:30p.m. 
Fleur de Lys 

Disembodied Voices: Music ofWomen in Seventeenth-Century Italian Convents and Academies 
Danielle Svonavec, soprano Mary Anne Ballard, viola da gamba Darlene Catello, harpsichord 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts Admission $10; faculty/staff $8; seniors $6; students $3 Call 574-631-2800 for tickets 
Saturday, February 19, 2005 2:30p.m. 
The Notre Dame Bands & Jazz Band 
Ken Dye and Larry Dwyer, Directors 
Judd & Mary Lou Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts Free and open to the public; tickets required Call574-631-2800 for tickets 
Sunday, February 20, 2005 2:00p.m. 
EthanHaimo "How to Listen to Scriabin's Sixth Sonata" 
A Notre Dame Faculty Lecture/Recital Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art Free and open to the public; no tickets required 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 18, 2005 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 
Irish expect to benefit fron1 divison change 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Recent conference nmlignment in college athletics has drawn the most attention in football and basketball, but don't tell that to the Notre Dame's track team. 
With last year's decisive confer­ence champion Miami gone to the ACC, last year's runner-up, the Irish, feel everything is in place for them to capture a Big East title, something they have not done in three seasons. 
Notre Dame's quest will not go unchallenged, however, as a strong field is expected this weekend in Syracuse, N.Y. for the conference meet. Villanova enters the meet ranked 14th in the nation by Trackwire.com and Pittsburgh, last year's third-place team, carries a No. 15 ranking. 
"Pittsburgh is a solid team," assistant coach Scott Winsor said. "They are strong in all events, but espeeially in the 400 on down." 
The Irish enter the meet unranked despite being as high as 11th earlier this season. Their fall in the rankings can be attrib­uted to the inactivity of key dis­tance runners Molly Huddle, Lauren King and Kerry Meagher, all recovering from cross country injuries. Huddle, a seven-time All-American, is said to have recovered from her foot injury and is scheduled to run the 5,000, her frrst race of the year, at the Big East meet. The junior is the defending conference champion and meet record-hold­er in this event. 
Notre Dame will look for the distance runners to anchor the team, but will need a strong per­formance from all areas of the team to be victorious this week­end. Maryann Erigha, who has notched several victories this year and finished eighth in the 60-meter dash last season, will lead the Irish in the sprint events. 
Tiffany Gunn will pace Notre Dame's middle-distance group, following a fourth-place perform­ance last season in the 500. In the field events, the Irish expect Stacey Cowan to be a standout performer in the high jump. Cowan had her best jump of the season last year -5-11 1/2 -at this meet and finished second. Meghan Horn is the best hope for the Irish in the throwing events, as she has already set a personal best this season and finished eighth at the conference meet last season. 
These individuals are expected to lead the team, but Winsor made it clear that this weekend will have to be a team effort. 
"We didn't bring anyone this weekend who we didn't think could help us. We expect every team member to score points this weekend. We need this because the meet may be decided by one or two points," Winsor said. 
With all the pieces in place, all that's left to do is race. 
"This has been: a goal of ours since the beginning of the sea­son," Winsor said. "The opportu­nity is there and that's all you can ask for." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 


1213 Lincolnway West-Mishawaka Corner of Logan & Lincolnway 
(574) 256-1444 
Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for 
25 years! 
lFJr.atlntoe§cot§ \\VellooJJnnte§ .aU jluJmlioJm 
.auntd ]p>:amelnltt§ ifo1r JfP \\V!! Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
Tuesday-Thursday 
s:oo-9:oo  Full bar available  
Friday & Saturday  Free bruschetta with ad  
s:oo-1o:oo  FrancescoDs needs servers  


ND SOFTBALL 
Team ready to go out west 
end tournament with consecu­By JUSTIN SCHUVER tive losses to Florida and South 
Associate Sports Editor Florida, but then rattled off 
three consecutive victories ­

There won't be rest for the including rematch wins over Irish this weekend as they Florida and South Florida ­travel to San Diego State to on their way to the tourna­participate in the Campbell­ment championship. During Cartier Tournament. those three wins, Irish pitchers 
Notre Dame (3-2) will face held their opponents to just 1 0 three ranked teams at the hits in 21 innings. event, in addition to the home­"[Starters] Heather [Booth] town Aztecs, as the Irish and Steffany ]Stenglein] were attempt .to win their second­great in Florida, but they're 
straight early- going to have to  
season tourna­ment. Notre  'Td like for this  be even better this weekend  
Dame  won  the  team to get to the  because we're  
Gainesville Hegional Utilities Classic in Florida last weekend.  point where it doesn't matter where we play."  playing better competition," Gumpf said. "They've  
The Irish open  already fough-t  
against tomorrow  Utah at  Deanna Gumpf Irish head coach  hardest when the team needed  

noon, then face No. 21/18 Fresno State at 4 p.m. Notre Dame returns to action Saturday, taking on No. 3/4 UCLA at 4 
p.m. before facing San Diego State two hours later. The Irish then close out tournament play with a matchup against No. 22/24 Long Beach State. 
Notre Dame has already played four games against ranked opponents this season, splitting with both No. 19 Florida and No. 21 South Florida at the GRU Classic. 
"We do our schedule that way on purpose," Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf said. "I really don't think our girls would have it any other way. We want to play the best, because then we know we can beat the best." 
The Irish started that week-them to step up 
and make big pitches. I think if they continue to fight like that all season, they're going to be real suc­cessful." 
Notre Dame handed Florida its first loss of the season. The Gators came into the champi­onship game of the GRU tour­nament with an 11-0 record. 
Notre Dame's game against UCLA is a chance for the Irish to square off against one of the top softball powers in the country. The Bruins have won the NCAA championship in softball nine times, and hold a 2-0 lifetime record against the Irish. 
"We're really excited to [play a team like UCLA]," Gumpf said. "We're playing well right now and really think they're a team we can compete with and beat." 
The game against Utah is an interesting matchup, as Irish assistant coach Charmelle Green returns to her alma mater.,Notre Dame has a 2-0 record against the Utes, including a 4-3 victory last season at the Palm Springs Classic. 
This weekend's trip to San Diego is the first visit Notre Dame has made to the California city. It will be a return home for the seven California natives on the Irish roster this season -Booth, Liz Hartmann, Carissa Jaquish, Mallorie Lenn, Meagan Huthrauff, Stenglein and Carrie Wisen. 
Notre Dame will return to California two more times this year, traveling to Palm Springs for a tournament Feb. 25-27 and to Los Angeles Mar. 6-7 for a doubleheader with Loyola Marymount and a sin­gle came against California­Santa Barbara. 
The Irish will remain on the road until March 23, the team's first game at home against Western Michigan. Barring cancellations, the Irish are scheduled to have already played 27 games at that point. 
''I'd like for this team to get to the point where it doesn't matter where we play," Gumpf said. "It's nice to be at home, but I think we'd rather get to where we can win just as easi­ly on the road. In the long run I think playing all these games on the road will help us tremendously." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Friday, February 18, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
And the Irish will have their hands full eome Saturday. The

Rutgers 
last time they faced the Searlet 
Knights on Jan. 23, Notre Dame 
needed a 23-0 seeond half run to 

"I'm so mueh morn rnlaxed," come back from a 13-point half­McGraw said with a smile. "I time dnfidt. don't think wn'vo taken the time "Taking care of the ball is the to appmdatn what we'vn done." No. 1 key to the game," McGraw 
But dnspite the game not being said. "We've got to take care of a must-win, it is still important the ball, bocause they're so good for the Irish, who take a 10-in transition. So if we can limit gamn win streak our turnovers, into the matehup. which is what we With a win, Notre did in the second 
continued from page 24 
"It's a hostile 

Damn eould lwlp its half' of that game,
environment. It:-;

easE~ for a top sond then we have a in tho upcoming tough." chance to win ­NCAA tournament, that, and rebound. as well as bo on its Those are the two
Muffet McGraw 

way for a regular big things we've
Irish coach 

season Big East got to do." lith~. Loading the Irish 
No. I 0 Hutgnrs will be All­( 1 9-~. 10-2 Big East), mean­American forward Jacqueline while, comes on· a scare against Batteast (17.9 points, 6.6 Syracusn (It-B. :~-10 Big East). rebounds per game) and point The Scarlet Knights had to score guard Megan Duffy (11.6 points, the lina! I 0 points to come away 5.5 assists per game). Batteast with a (,4-54 win in New York scored 27 points the last time the Feb. 16. Irish faeE~d the Scarlet Knights at 
"We had a tough game there, the Joyce Center. Saturday's too," McGraw said. "Syracuse is game will be played in a pretty good team." Piscataway, N.J., at the Louis 
Brown Athletic Center, also known as the HAC. "It's a hostile environment," McGraw said. "It's tough." 
The Irish will have to play bet­ter than they did Tuesday night against No. 25 Boston College, when they scored just 15 points in the first half. MeGraw said Thursday she didn't know what the eause of the slow start was, or why the team shot just 34.5 pnrcent against Boston College. 
"I don't feel like we've been shooting the ball well lately," McGraw said. 
Hutgers, meanwhile is led by star point guard Cappie Pondexter and freshman Matee Ajavon, who comes ofT the bcneh. Chelsea Newton adds senior leadership for the Searlet Knights, who defeated Connecticut 76-62, Feb. 13, put­ting the Irish atop the Big East. 
Tipoff is set for noon Saturday. 
Notes 
+ Megan Duffy was named to ESPN The Magazine's Aeademic AII-Distriet V Second Team. Duffy has a 3.45 grade point average. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


AI . FRIEDMAN/The Observer 
Irish defenseman Noah Babin moves the puck up the ice during Notre Dame's 3-1 loss to Ohio State Jan. 15. The Irish face Michigan tonight at 8 pm In Fort Wayne, Ind. 

HOLY CROSS COl.LEGE 
HALL DIRECTOR NEEDED AT HOLY CROSS COLLEGE MEN'S HALL 
GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
IF INTERESTED CONTACT RESLIFE@HCC-NO.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION 

Write Sn.orts
-11~ >Mf111flr .. · 
,.. ,,,_,.,.@;f:>:::: 
1-4543 
leers 
continued from page 24 
in the U.S. College Hockey Onlinn/CSTV poll, and the Wolverines are one point ahead of Ohio State for first place in the CCIIA standings. Notre Dame currently is 12th with just 11 total points compared to Michigan's 40. 
Notre Dame last played the Wolverines in a home-and­home series on Dee. 3-4, drop­ping the first game by a score of' 6-1 and the second S-0. Those 14 goals are still the most the Irish have given up in a two­game series this season. 
The Irish are coming oil' a dis­appointing weekend, in which they dropped a pair of' games to Ferris State at home. Tho Bulldogs had come into the series only one point ahead of' Notre Dame for 11th in tho con­ference, but now have a com­fortable lead on the Irish. 
Ferris State defeated Notre Dame 4-3 on Friday in a heart­breaking loss for the Irish as Ferris State's Matt Verdone scored a shorthanded goal with less than a minute loft in the game to give the Bulldogs the victory. Saturday, Notre Dame again allowed four goals to the Bulldogs -all in the second period -as Ferris State won 4­2. 
The Irish have now failed to win in 13 straight games, with their last victory coming at home against Honssnlaer Jan. 
2. Notre Dame's last eonferenen vietory was a Dee. 10 3-2 over­time victory against Michigan State. 
Miehigan eomes into this 


ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cui5lne ... j.~ ..... 
Open: Tues.-Sat. I Jam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. and Mon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
--------------~~~~------------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 31 
page 21 

weekend's games on a high 
note, having taken two ganws 
on the road against Nebraska­
Omaha. The Wolverines defeat­
ed tho Mavericks 6-4 Friday 
and survived a 4-3 nailbitnr 
Saturday. 
Michigan's strnngth all season 

has bonn its ofTenso, which is 
currently ranked first in tlw 
CCIIA with a 4.09 goals per 
game average -Notro Damn is 
12th with just 1.59 goals per 
gamo. But the Wolvnrinos' 
defense hasn't boon too shabby, 
either, with goalie AI Montoya 
headlining a defnnse that has 
only allowed 2.62 goals per 
game. fourth in the eonfenmce. 
Montoya, the CCIIA's leading draft piek last season, has actu­ally been in a bit of a slump during the regular season, car­rying a 2.69 (;;\;\ and a dismal .S93 save pnrcentage. But his defense has made life easy for him, only allowing their oppo­·nents to shoot 25.9 shots per game against the junior nntmin­
der. 
"You look at this team and they have the ability to outscore opponents," Poulin said. "They don't have to win ganws 1-0. But as a coach, if I'm looking at a goalie there's only one stat.is­tie I'm eoncorned with and that's wins. 
"Montoya might not have tlw 

numbers this year, but lw's put­
ting up theW's." 
Sophomore forward T..l. llonsiek, last year's CCII;\ rook­ie of tho year, paees the tnam 's ol'f'onsn with 41 points ( 19 goals, 22 assists). llensiek is tho second-leading scorer in l.lw CCIIA, two otlwr Miehigan for­wards are in tho conference's top ten -.JolT Tambellini (36 points) and Milan (;ajir (:Hl points). 
Tho team's real strength ofTensively is in its balance ­1:~ dill'orent players have seowd 17 points or more this season. 
"Tlwir dnpth and quality of' depth is just remarkablE~." Poulin said. "They've got 10 seniors and 10 guys who Wl~rP drafted, and that combination of skill and depth is what you see in championship-calilH~r tnams." 
Notre Damn faces Miehigan at 

S:05 p.m. at Fort Wayne's Allnn County Memorial Stadium Friday. The rematch is Saturday at Yost Field I louse in Ann Arbor at'7:35 pm. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
·­

------------------------------~~--------------------~----------------~~------------------------­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, February 18, 2005 

RICHARD FRIEDMAN!The Observer Irish guard Chris Quinn dribbles as Georgetown guard Ray Reed defends during the 70-64 Notre Dame win Wednesday. 
Friars 
continued from page 24 
their season, despite having no chance to get to the NCAA tournament except winning four consecutive games in the Big East Tournament. At West Virginia on Feb. 5, Providence lost by two. On Sunday, the Friars won their first confer­ence game on the season, beat­ing Rutgers 81-65. And on Tuesday, they took Connecticut to double overtime behind a career~high 37 points from Ryan Gomes. 
"That 1-10 record might be the most deceiving 1-10 record in the history of college basket­ball," Irish senior Jordan Cornette said. 
Gomes, the preseason Big East player of the year and a 2004 first-team All-American, is leading the Big East in scoring with 21.8 points per game, sec­ond in the conference, pulling down 8.5 rebounds-, and sev­enth in field goal percentage. 
Overall, of their 14 losses, the Friars have lost only three of them by more than 1 0 points. 
'They are a talented team with RG. He's the best player in the league," Thomas said. "He plays with a lot of confidence. Their record doesn't describe the type of team they are." 
Thomas hasn't let Gomes for­get about last season when the Friars came into the Joyce Center and defeated the Irish 73-59. 
Sitting squarely on the bub­ble, the Irish played one of their worst games of the season while Gomes led the Friars with 25 points and 12 rebounds. 
"They got us last year. We feel we owe them one," Thomas said. "Despite their record, there's a lot at stake. 
"We have to be resilient, just like we were against Connecticut." 
Saturday's game is Notre Dame's first against a team entering the game with a losing record in the conference this season. 
Tip-off is set for noon and the game will be televised locally by WNDU. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Irish 
continued from page 24 

Irish baseball and owns 781 career victories. "We went out to the parking lot and hit some pop ups to the infielders and outfielders, I'm not sure there are many Top 25 teams in the country that have had to do that." 
Mainieri sees advantages in practicing indoors and in matching up against opponents who already have game experience field), Craig Cooper (center field), Steve Andres (left field) and Matt Bransfield (DI-1) and senior first baseman Matt Edwards provide experience, depth and leadership for the Irish. 
"I think when you look at the leadership of our team, you have to look clearly at the jun­ior class. Those are going to be the guys that have to carry the big portion of the load for us," Mainieri said. 
Despite losing standout pitch­ers Grant Johnson and Chris 
Niese! to the 
draft, the Irish 

this season. "! think when you rotation remains "Everybody as potent and as
look at the 

thinks it's a big deep as ever.
leadership ofour

disadvantage by Jeff Samardzija not going outside, team, you have to will throw the but I don't look at look clearly at the first pitch for the it that way Irish on Friday.
junior class. " 

because if you The 6-foot-5, look at Florida hard-throwing A&M, they've had Paul Mainieri Samardzija com­a lot of bad things Irish coach piled the second­
happen to them already. So maybe their confidence is a little bit down. 
"We haven't had anything bad happen to us, so our confidence should be sky-high." 
After a school record-setting 51 wins last season, the Irish return six of nine starters from the 2004 squad. Filling the void of four-year starter second baseman Steve Sollmann, All­American third baseman Matt Macri and heavy-hitting catcher Javi Sanchez presents chal­lenges, but Mainieri believes his newcomers are ready. 
"Those two everyday guys, [BrettI Lilley and I Ross] Brezovsky, they've got big shoes to fill in replacing Sollmann and Macri, but both those kids are going to be up to the task sim­ply because they're just such hard-nosed kids. They're really fearless, and I'm really expect­ing a lot out of both of them," Mainieri said. 
Behind the plate will be soph­omore Sean Gaston. Veteran juniors Greg Lopez (shortstop), Cody Rizzo (right 
best ERA in the 
Big East last year at 2.95. Last year's Big East wins leader junior Tom Thornton, a lefty, gets the nod in the early game Saturday, while another lefty, freshman Wade Korpi, makes his first career start for the Irish in the late game. To round out the weekend lineup, sophomore Jess Stewart takes the hill com­ing off a seven-win season last season. 

Seven-foot-one right-hander Ryan Doherty leads a group of dominant bullpen pitchers. A 2004 All-American, Doherty completed 12 of 13 save chances. He is on track to break the Notre Dame career ERA record with his current 2.30 ERA. 
In addition to the returnees from the 2004 lineup, senior John Axford and sophomore Jeff Manship will be back from injuries in a couple of weeks, creating an even stronger rota­tion. Each had season-ending, reconstructive elbow surgeries last season. 
"They are going to continue their rehabilitation down in Florida with us. Hopefully they're a week or two or three weeks away from being able to pitch-we don't know for sure yet," Mainieri said. 
With the rest of the pitching rotation and lineup set, Mainieri knows his team is eager to set foot on the baseball field. 
''I'm hoping that we're going to come out sharply our first days outside," Mainieri said. "And our team will be very enthusiastic and excited to play." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer Baseball great Roger Clemens, left, and former Notre Dame pitcher Brad lidge speak at the baseball banquet Feb. 10. 

CASTING FOR ESPN'S 
"I'D Do ANYTHING" 
*APPLY FOR THESE DREAMS* 
Go to the Final Four with DICK VITALE. One on One time with MARIA SHARAPOVA Bat Boy on Opening Day for the SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS 
Hang with atop NASCAR driver Carry the Bag for SERGIO GARCIA at the prestigious BAY HILL INVITATIONAL 
Would you Do Anything for your mom, grand-dad, nephew or friend to have one of these dreams? 
APPLY BY MARCH 1st! 
SEND 2to 3PHOTOS and aCOMPLETED APPLICATION (found on ESPN.com, keyword: "I'd Do Anything") 
Please E-MAIL COMPLETED APPLICATIONS and/or questions to !dacasting@messmediatv.com 
Irish Hockey vs. Michigan "'-Fri. 2/18 @ 8:05 PM.Il't 
Allen County War Memorial Coliseum, Fort Wayne, IN 
$10 for ND students, includes ticket to the game, transportation, and food on the bus. Call 631-8393 for details and to sign up. '~/
'i'r.ti ll'il ~Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for the latest promotional information 
'' 


Friday, February 18, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
.---------------.E.---------------.~.-------------...... 
& I ENJOY GIVING le 

WELL, IF YOU CANT BE
I'l''\ GOING TO 
~ PEOPLE ABUSIVE ~ 

HOME FROM MARCH TO ~ SERVICE WINDOWS. til 
WORK FOR THE 
OCTOBER., THEN SAY GOODBYE TO REGIS AND CABLE COMPANY. 
i ~ 

KELLY!
:i! OH.
WHY? 


CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 
WELL, I SEE THE 

SUN IS SHINING, AND THERE'S A NICE BREEZE 50 I GUESS IT'S JUST 0 0 ABOUT T~AT TIME 
AGAIN ... 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JJ~JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TUMSY 
± 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SYNOW 
rJ 
1 


ASCUBA 
> HE: DE:STR.Or'E:O 
THE: PIE:C.E: OF
rJ 
www.jumble.com 
SC.UL-PTUR.E: BE:C.AUSE: THE:--­
tTUEBAY 1 t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J rJ J 

1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
A:[XXXJ[IIJA(IIIJ
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's IJumbles: STUNG WEIGH FEDORA OMELET Answer: What the shepherd did when the mother and lambs strayed from the flock-MADE A EWE TURN 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  36 Crimson rivals  DOWN  
1 Opposite of 58-Across  37 Information holders  1 Where Sydney is: Abbr.  
1 o Evidence of trauma  39 Home of the Knights  2 Opposite of hiver  
15 Took off without a sound 16 Mel Torma's Home  Hospitalers 40 Wasn't straight 41 More lean and muscular  3 Console abbr. 4 Old cloth measure  
Baby" 17 "Doesn't that beat all?!" 18 Betel palm  42 It bites 46 Mean dude's quality 47 Procrastinator's  5 It's newly available, but not new 6 Knocker  
19 Camp sight  aid  7 Big-eyed baby  
21 Matching tops, maybe 25 Creeks, e.g. 26 Lapsed 27 Sitcom about a Texas soccer mom 28 Condition  49 Philadelphia's first black mayor, 1984-92 50 What a mail order merchant wants 55 Guitarist's gizmo 56 Like wire transfers  a"Streamers" playwright 9 Seeing things 10 What a gate may be attached to? 11 Literally, "dwarf dog"  
29 Call up  57 Station  12 Simple life?  
34 Take  view  postings, briefly  13 San Juan  
of 35 Cartier rival  58 Opposite of 1-Across  native, slangily 14 Annoying things  31 Matriarch of an SO's prime-time  41 Water, vis-a-vis wood  48 Time to give up?  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  to hit 20 Work site 21 It includes a third and a fifth  soap 32 Subpoenas, say 33 Reds' old foes 35 Collect, as funds  42 Some N.C.O.'s 43 Actress Aimee 44 ABC's Arledge  51 Warriors' grp. 52 "An all 'round good fellow," in song  
22 Rockabilly queen Jackson 23 Certain  38 Some Chevys 39 A few hours after dawn, in  45 Requiring cracking, perhaps  53 In the U.S.M.C., e.g. 54 Shade of  
Green lander  verse  46 Wallop  blue  
24 Bellini's title  

priestess For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
27 Commanded 

I!IP~I!!II-:+:-,.;;....:-;+::;-8 anew Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. -=+::-:+:=+.-:-fl'!!"'t"!' --:-+-:-:+=+::;; 29 "The Dick Van Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000Dyke Show" 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
actress 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ...:....L"'-L..::....&....:;..&..::.~ 30 Soak up solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
--~ --~~-----­

Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ____________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Joseph Gordon-Lev ill, 24: Paris Hilton. 
24: Bryan White, 31: Rene Russo, 51 

Happy Birthday: Don't just think ahout all the things you would like to do: get husy and start doing them. You have some good ideas to explore. and this is a great year to do so. The more you interact with people who haw similar intcn:,,ls, the more you will accomplish along the way. Your numbers arc X, 14, 22, 2fl, 39. 43 
ARIES IMarch 21-A(Jril 19): Love, creativity and making any rcrsonal changes 
to your appearance or allitude will go a long way today. Just say the word and 
you will get the response that you need to move l<1rward. Progressive action will 
result in positive alternatives. **** 

TAlJRlJS (April 20-May 20): Slowly hut surely ynu arc beginning to pick up 
momentum. Don't wear yourself down hy overdoing it. :mel you shoulcl he ahk 
to make headway toclay. *** 

GEMINI (May 21-,Junl' 20): You may have to clo a lillk~ troubleshooting today, 
especially if you have said or done something that has upset someone. A unique 
opportunity will arise if you arc determined to gel ahead.*** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): As long as you stick to what you know and refuse 
to go ovcrhoard, this could tum into a very fruitful day. Being a lillie secretive 
ahout your ideas and projects will make them that much more em icing when you 
finally reveal your intclllions. *** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your mind will he on love, romance ancl, of course, 
pampering and pleasure. Take whatever measures are necessary to take care of 
your needs as well as the needs of the person you arc doses! to. uu 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may have what it lakes to gel things done, hut 
don't he too 4uick to resolve issues today. You arc likely to make a mistake hascd 
on false information. Wail to gather more information and you will spare yourself 
backtracking later on. ** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Thinking hig can he good, hut only if you have what 
it lakes lo follow through. Don't rely on someone else to do it for you. Love is 
in the picture. ***** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get your mlmey matters cleared up tJUickly. You 
have some good opportunities coming your way, and you want to he ahle to take 
advantage of them. The more you do to complete unfinished husincss, the freer 
you will feel to. take part in whatever comes your way. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may find it ditTicuh to make up your 
mind --too many choices and not enough hours in a day. Change is apparent. 
Putting up a resistance will only force you to lose control. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Change is good and prohahly necessary. The 
ideas you have regarding how to make more money and what to do with your 
life are looking good. Talk to someone with experience and you will get the 
information you need to develop your ideas. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your vihrant attitude will he enticing. Someone 
very special will get what you arc all about and opt to walk hy your side. This 
can he a turning point for you as long as you aren't negative. **••• 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Proceed with caution. You may have some 
interesting thoughts. but now is not the time to share them. Work on your own 
and develop your niche. ** 

Birthday Baby: You arc curious and carefree. You arc a communicator. You can envision what it is you want to do and follow through with your plans. You arc an opportunist, 4uick to react. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and cugcnialast.com . 
. 

The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

.-----------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Friday, February 18, 2005 page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
One-win Providence wants to derail Irish hopes for road win 
By MATTLOZAR Sports Writer 
Mike 13rey has an offer for Providence coach Tim Welsh. 
He'll cut Saturday's game clown to a minute with the score tied. 
If Providence was contending for a NCAA tournament berth -as thn coaches predicted in the preseason with tlw Friars' sixth-place projection -Brey's statement after Wednesday night's win over Georgetown might make more sense. 
If the Friars weren't in last place in the Big East with a 1­10 conl'nrence record. the Irish would be lucky to gp,L such a deal going into conference road game after losing their last four away from the Joyce Center. 
But the Irish are throwing all of those truths out the window. 
They fnel the real truth is Providp,nr.e is much, much bet­ter than its record this season has shown. 
"The fact that we're 7-5 and they arfl 1-10 means nothing," Brey said. "They scare the heck out of me." 
The Friars haven't mailed in 
see FRIARS/page 22 

No sure thing 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Scarlet Knights not a worry 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN
-Sports Editor 
The last time these two teams met, the circumstances were completely different. 
Notre Dame was fighting for its Big East life in the toughest stretch of its season, and Rutgers was coming off of a week of upsets. Notre Dame needed a win, and the Irish got one, 63-47 with a huge second half comeback. 
Saturday, however, is much different for the No. 5 Irish (23­3, 11-2 Big East), as they are in first place in the Big East with just three games to play, includ­ing Saturday's contest. 
"We're in the drivers' seat," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "But at the same time, there's no pressure. It's not like it's a must­win game. 
see RUTGERS/page 21 

HOCKEY 
ND set to face off w-ith UM 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish are hoping a change of scenery will help them finish the regular sea­son on the right track. 
Notre Dame (5-21-6, 3-16­5 in the CCIIAl faces first­place No. 6/5 Michigan (22­7 -3, 19-3-2) twir.e this week­end, first in Fort Wayne's Allen County Memorial Stadium Friday and then in Ann Arbor, Mich. Saturday. 
"This is a great hockey town," Poulin said of Fort Wayne. "This isn't one of those multipurpose arenas; this is a full-fledged hockey building. The town is really excited that we're here and they're expecting a sellout on Friday." 
Michigan is ranked sixth in the nation in the USA Today poll and fifth overall 
see ICERS/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Irish baseball to kick off season in Florida 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 

The weekend forecast for Orlando, the site of the open­ing four games of the 2005 season for Notre Dame, shows sunny skies and highs in the low 70s. That's a far cry from the chilly, wintry weather in South Bend. 
Notre Dame begins their 2005 campaign today at 1 p.m., taking on the Florida A&M Rattlers (0-1 0). A Saturday doubleheader fol­lows, beginning with the Central Florida Golden Knights (5-1) at 1 p.m. and finishing with Florida A&M at 5 p.m. A 1 p.m. Sunday game against Central Florida com­pletes a full weekend of com­petition. 
"It's quite possible that 
Florida A&M's record is mis­leading since they've played an extremely tough schedule," coach Paul Mainieri said. "Central Florida is an extremely tough team. They won 4 7 games last year, and we're playing them in their ballpark, so we know we've got a couple of games that are going to be as challenging as any we play all year." 
While the Irish have been cooped up inside for the first couple weeks of practice, their weekend opponents have already played a combined 16 games, and the few outdoor practices the Irish held were on asphalt. 
"The field conditions would not allow us to get out on the field," said Mainieri, who is in his 11th season at the helm of 
see IRISH{page 22 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
NO SWIMMING 

MLB NFL 
TENNIS SMC BASKETBALL 
New Red Sox pitcher. The Chargers name
Virginia Tech upset 
The Irish lead after 

Northwestern meets The Belles battle 
David Wells criticizes quarterback Drew Brees
no. 7 Duke 67-65 on a 
the first day of the Big 

ND tonight at the Eck Olivet in their final reg-
his old Yankee team. a franchise player. 
late 3-pointer. 

Tennis Pavillion. ular season game. 
East tournament. 
page 14 

page 15 page 16
page 15 

page 17 page 19 
• I'
.. . 

-
'I 







