
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Campus cable installation to begin 

Notre Dame dorms prepare for outages 
By MARY KATE MALONE NewsWrirer 
Tho Univnrsity will bngin dt>livnring on its promiso to add r~ahltl to dorm rooms as 11 a rl y as t h is w o o k . w h o n . pnnding thn finalization of' r·.ontrat:tual agreornents, Comeast bogins installing its eablo systom into Sorin Collngn, University officials said. 
Thn projtld in Sorin is the h o g i n n i n g oI' ~~a m p us-w i d o upgradns sehed uled for eaeh of' tho University's 27 dorms. By tlw f'all of 2006, evnry dorm room on campus will be wire­less and have access to a simi­lar version of Comeast's expanded basic cable, Assoeiatc Vice President of Hesidence Life and Housing Bill Kirk said. 
The addition of cable on eampus will happen simulta­neously with upgrades to HesNet, the eampus-wide wired internet system, said Dewitt Latimer, assistant Provost of the Off'ice of Information Technology. 
Six more dorms will be upgraded over Christmas break and tho remaining ones will undergo rnnovations in sets of three throughout the spring. The cable won't be CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 
Sorin College is the first dorm to receive cable as part of the see CABLE/page 4 University's campus-wide update, which will conclude in fall 2006. 

Bishop D'Arcy celebrates Mass at College 

By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Ediror 
Celebrating Mass at Saint Mary's Sunday, Bishop John D'Arey of the Dioeose of Fort Waynn-South Bend encour­aged students to turn to the Eucharist and prayer in order to live their lives as prepara­tion for their ultimate judg­ment before God. 
lie also answered quostions posed by students on every­thing from the war in Iraq to homosexuality during a reception following Mass hosted by the sonior class board. 
In his homily to roughly 200 pnoplo, I>'Arcy said it is dil'li­eult for individuals, particu­larly youth, to think of death. 
"Th11 Church has the teach­ing that has to do with the supremo moment of our livns, our moment of death," !fArcy said. 
It is important to be prn­parnd for tho important events in life, D'Arcy said, and it is equally important to be prt~pared for death. 
"A life of good eonseiem:e is a way to prepare for that," D'Arcy said. "I hope and pray that when my time is up that I can say that I always did God's will as I saw it." 
Human weaknoss will result in failures along the way, D'Arcy said, and prayer is a critieal means of' strengthen­ing ones relationship with God and keeping one on the correct path. 
"lA life and death in Christ] won't be unless I loarn to pray," I>'Arey said. "God is not real to you unless you pray." 
see MASS/page:: 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Tennessee toppling excites fans 

But students fail to fill pep rally seats 
By KATIE PERRY Assisranr News Fdiror 
Stadium-igHiting plays like Tom Zbikowski's intereeption return lin· a touchdown fired up fans following Saturday's onslaught against T11mwssee, but issues surrounding the rww ptlp rally tieket distribution system dampened the football woekond. 
Friday's pnp rally was tho first under tlw new system the Univnrsity impl11mentnd in response to the ovnnt's growing dtlnHmd ovor thn course of this season. Non-students were rnquirnd to wait in line to rm:oivn up to two tit:kets, f'rno of r.harge, b11ginning at:~ p.m. Friday. 
But not all hopdul Irish fans roeoived tiekots. dnspite gaping sections of var:ant. .JoycP Contnr seaL<; lert empty by st.udnnts who opted not to attond tho event. 
Thn University reserved h,OOO of' the arena's mortl than I 1,000 seats as part of' its aim to give students top priority at pt>p ral­lies, and rt~maining seats w11re allocated to thn pu blit: via tlw new ticketing systom, sonior associate athletic director .John lleisler said Sunday. 
"Empty st~l'tions wem based on studtHlts that wern not t.lwr11," lw said. "Thn ]seating! ostimates wore provided 011 llw student intorest, thny just didn't conw to fruition this past. wnek. The nxpnctation was that tlwrP would bo a trt~nwndous studPnt intPr­est." 
see FOOTBALL/page 6 


Graduate shares role in identification of 'Deep Throat' 
By PAT DOWD News Writer 
Notro l>anw graduate John O'Connor, tlw litigation lawyer rPsponsibln li1r revnaling the idnn­tity of Watnrgato source "Dnop Throat" in a Vanity Fair article hL<;t summer, spoke Friday on the hroadnr significance of' the famous Nixon Whiltl I louse scan­
dal. 
O'Connor's leeturn was part of' the Notre Dame Alumni Assoeiation 's l>istinguislwd Alumni loeturn Sorios and was co­sponsored by the University's .John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and l>nrnocnu:y. 
Tho lodure revisitod the saga of events that eventually forced Prt1sident Hichard Nixon to resign from ol'liee on Aug. 9, 1974. It focused on how the courageous actions of tho souree long known only as "Deep Throat" ­unmasked in June as FBI No. 2 Mark Felt -have altered the political and journalistic realities of modern leak investigations. 
The lingering mystery of which Nixon administration insider sup­plied Washington Post reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bnrnstnin with the incriminating information that eventually lever­aged the president out of ollice has been a hotly debated political and media topie of the last 30 years. 
Many thought the question, "Who was Doep Throat?" would have to wait until the anonymous informant died because Woodward had always held that as the necessary condition for revealing his source. 
Through a rather happenstance eourse of events, howovnr, O'Connor had tho opportunity to name the seeretive source before his death. While swapping stories about family members that may have been in the secret service, one of his children's college dass­mates mentioned his grandfather was Felt, seeond in command at the FBI under Nixon. 
"Your Grandfather is 'Deep Throat,"' O'Connor exclaimed. Felt had long been top on O'Connor's list of possible individ­uals, and with opportunity wait­ing at his doorstep, he worked with Felt's extended family to help him feel comfortable revealing to the world that he was "Deep Throat." 
"Mark Felt was in charge of the FBI's investigation of the Watergate break-in, and he like 
see DEEP/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, November 7, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Lucky Irish, lucky fans 
I attempted to take a step back from it all after the Tennessee game this weekend, and I realized just how fortunate and spoiled I've been in the games that I've seen so far this year.
I'm a fresh- Greg Arbogast  
man, and I was  
never one of the  
kids destined to  Sports Writer  
go to Notre Dame  
since before they  

could walk. Hence, the four games I've seen at Notre Dame stadium so far this year are the first four experiences of my life with Notre Dame football, and I've found myself asking the same question multiple times: How did I get so lucky with the games I've seen so far? 
First, there was the Michigan State game. Besides the beautiful weather and the fact that it was my first-ever Notre Dame game, it was one of the best football games I've ever seen. There's nothing more exciting to me than a comeback, and the 21-point deficit that Notre Dame overcame in a little over a quarter was nothing short of exhil­arating. Even though we ended up on the wrong side of the score­board, being in the student section during that comeback was unbe­lievable. 
Next, there was the USC game which pretty much speaks for itself. I will say, however, that it will be very difficult for any sport­ing event to ever surpass my expe­rience for not only the game, but the weekend in general. I can't help smiling knowing that the ND­USC game was one of the greatest games ever in college football and I was there to witness it. 
Thinking that nothing could even come close to the first two games of the season, the BYU game sur­prised me. While it was by far not the USC or even Michigan State experience, it is not every day that you see about five school records broken in one game. If only there was fantasy football for college that day. 
Finally, this past Saturday, I had an opportunity to witness the Tennessee game from the press box. Since that will probably be the last time for many years that I get 50-yard line seats to a football game that actually means some­thing, it will be experience that I don't forget anytime soon. 
I've seen a total of four Notre Dame football games in my life, and each one has left me walking away shaking my head in disbelief. It will be difficult to surpass the games I've seen so far, but Coach Weis around for 10 more years, I'm hoping he will give me some more games to remember. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, The Observer incorrectly reported in irs Nov. 4 edition that Saint Mary's V.P. ofStudent Affairs Linda Timm assisted junior class officers in gathering information regarding the use of the College seal. Timm did not contribute to these efforts, nor was approval ever sought out or received from the Board ofTrustees to use the seal on the junior class fleeces. The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF SATURDAY'S GAME? 








Mike Kaiser John Soltis 
freshman freshman Morrissey Morrissey 
"Beating "Orange Bowl, "Zibby's the "/ thought it "Where did our "Super duper, Tennessee was here we come. " man!" was good." rushing attack neato gang!" 
more entertaining than watching Notre Dame beat up on BYU." 

HY PHAM!The Observer 
Despite Sunday's cold and rainy weather, these fans came to cheer on their respec­tive teams in their quest to play in the interhall championship game, to be played Nov. 20 in Notre Dame Stadium. 
OFFBEAT 
Mayor calls for physical punishment for taggers 
RENO, Nev. -Las Vegas Mayor Oscar Goodman has suggested that those who deface freeways with graffi­ti should have their thumbs cut off on television. 
Goodman, appearing Wednesday on the "Nevada Newsmakers" television show, said, "In the old days in France, they had beheading of people who commit heinous crimes. 
"You know, we have a beautiful highway land­scaping redevelopment in our downtown. We have desert tortoises and beauti­ful paintings of flora and fauna. These punks come along and deface it. 
''I'm saying maybe you put them on TV and cut off a thumb," the mayor added. "That may be the right thing to do." 
Science project mistaken for dangerous explosive 
PERRYOPOLIS, Pa. -A bomb squad blew up a metal pipe that had a bat­tery, wires, rope and an electrical switch, only to realize it was an eighth­grade science project. 
"An electromagnetic fish­ing pole," Allegheny County Bomb Squad Sgt. Robert Clark said, holding the con­
traption with the battery blown off. 
A clerk found the device -made from three feet of half-inch metal pipe ­near the greeting cards dis­
play  at  a  drugstore  
Thursday.  
Police  Chief  Roger  

Beadling said he got within six feet and decided not to take any chances. "It defi­nitely appeared to be some kind of explosive device," he said. 
The bomb squad used a robot to examine the device, then destroyed it. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY a: 
1.&.1 
:::1: 
!ci: 
1.&.1 
~ 
..... 
cc 
(,) 

_.0 HIGH 64 HIGH 60 HIGH 67 HIGH 69 LOW 47 LOW 44 LOW 56 LOW 41 
go.?" 
IN BRIEF 
A panel of prominent journal­ists, including Tom Bettag of ABC News and Bill Mitchell of the Poynter Institute, will par­ticipate in a forum today titled "What Will It Take for Jounalism to Survive the Information Revolution?" at 3 
p.m. in Room 100 in McKenna Hall. 
Jean Kilbourne, an interna­tionally recognized expert on women in advertising, will speak at 7 p.m. today in 101 DeBartolo Hall. Her lecture is titled "The Naked Truth: Advertising's Image of Women." 
Senior vice president for Global Compliance Kathryn Reimann will give a lecture Tuesday entitled "Ethics and Complaince in a Large Public Company" at 7 p.m. in the Jordan Audoitorium. 
Andre Connors, senior cura­tor of the National Hispanish Cultural Center in Albuquerque, N.M., will give a lecture titled "Graphic Text: The Enduring Power of a Well-Designed Message" at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Suite Museum. 
The Saint Mary's spanish club is hosting a salsa night Wednesday from 8 p.m. to 10 in the Saint Mary's Student Center. Music, dancing and games included. 
The Notre Dame volleybaJI team faces the University of Saint Louis Wednesday at 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

~ 

HIGH 54 HIGH 
59 

LOW 36 LOW 
43 

Atlanta 74 I 55 Boston 70 I 52 Chicago 70 I 44 Denver 58 I 30 Houston 84 I 66 Los Angeles 70 I 54 Minneapolis 50 1 36 New York 70 I 56 Philadelphia 70 I 52 Phoenix 83 I 58 Seattle 47 I 40 St. Louis 74 I 53 Tampa 84 I 66 Washington 73 I 51 
Monday, November 7, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Living arrangetnents discussed 
Sociologist Pamela Smock analyzes phenomenon ofunmarried cohabitation 
By MARCELA BERRIOS News Writer 
The topic of unmarried cohabitation among couples in the U.S. took eentcr stage at Notre Dame Thursday. 
As part of the Provost's Distinguished Women's Lncturer Series, guest speaker PanHJia Smock, from the Sociology department at the University of Michigan, addressed the increasingly common phenomenon. 
The leeture analyzed the trend demographieally, provid­ing insight pertaining to the nffncts of socioeconomic stand­ing and race on the probability that a eouple will share a roof out of wedlock. 
The demographic approach also guarantees quiek, reveal­ing statistics to boggle the mind. 
Smock said 33 percent of col­lege-nducated women will have cohabited with a man boforn marrying him. 
Women without a high school diploma, on the other hand, are 60 percent inclined to move in with their partners, and marriage is a less likely outcome for the pair. 
Smock said cohabitation is also more widespread amongst lower class blacks and llispanies. 
Smock argued privileged dassos will use cohabitation as an nntry into marriage -a way to take the relationship to a more intimate level before making the ultimate commit­ment. 
"In the past there seemed to be a less emphasis on really knowing someone before mar­rying that person," sophomore Elaine Zarzana said. 
Lower classes, on the other hand, more often practice cohabitation for its conven­ience, Smock said. 
Rent and utilities are more affordable when the costs are shared with someone else, she said. 
Whichever the reason may be, Smock argued that cohabi­tation as not a thing of the past. "Cohabitation is here to stay," she said. "It has forever transformed the traditional courtship and dating process­es. It is almost as if a new level of intimacy has been added; somewhere between engaging in sexual relations and mar­riage is 'moving in together."' 
In 1950, less than 10 percent of married couples had lived together prior to the nuptials, whereas in 2004 that figure reached 68 percent, and is only expected to increase, Smock said. 
As a result, the Bush admin­istration has launched "The Healthy Marriage Initiative," promoting families with two married parents. 
The initiative reads: "Children fare best when raised in a stable marriage by 
their two biological parents. Furthermore, marriage bene­fits not only children, but adults and communities as well." 
Smock drew attention to the negative effects of cohabitation on children. 
If a single mother's boyfriend moves into the house, the chil­dren are exposed to higher lev­els of instability, which hinders their development, she said. 
There is also a strong corre­lation in the lower classes between cohabitation and domestic violence, substance abuse and alcoholism, she said. 
Smock said the stress of eco­nomic instability itself hinders healthy relationships, and called for innovative govern­ment policies to help the lower class find better-paying jobs, better public health and edu­cation systems. Only then will the family see an improvement in the quality of life, she said. 
Sophomore Carter Angell said he thinks the younger generations are more apt to cohabitation before marriage. 
"I believe that our generation is young and constantly evolv­ing," Angell said. "Living with someone is a good addition to society, it's a good measure for indicating whether or not the relationship can continue and lead to marriage." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Yale W"aives tuition for 111usic students 
Associated Press 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. -In most of America's top conser­vatories, the world's most promising musicians are often deep in debt and giving music lessons just to cover the rent and close the gap between their scholarships and gradu­ate school tuition. 
But a $100 million donation is about to change that sce­nario at The Yale School of Music. 
The anonymous donation, announced this past week, will make advanced music educa­tion free beginning next year. Music scholars hope it will pressure other schools to do the same. 
"Money is a big factor," said Yale master's candidate Clara Yang, 24, who paid for her first year with loans, financial aid and by teaching piano les­sons. 
The current year's tuition at the Yale School of Music is $23,750, and about 200 stu­dents are enrolled each year. 
Half the former art and music students surveyed by college lender Nellie Mae in 1998 had debts bigger than their salaries and most said that, in hindsight, they should have borrowed less. 
"These are incredibly talent­ed people who do wonderful work and enter careers that are not high-paying," said Yale President Richard Levin. "Even members of the groat sympho­ny orchestras don't make a lot of money." 

Joseph W. Polisi, president of the Juilliard School and a graduate of the Yale School of Music, said music graduate students sometimes enter the work force with debts as high as $75,000 and without a guarantee of a job. 
"!low do they pay off those loans? Often that high debt forces the artists out of the profession entirely," Polisi said. 
Five to 10 percent of Juilliard graduate students pay full tuition, Polisi said. The rest receive financial aid that cov­ers most of the costs, he said. Despite that aid, he said, Yale's new policy will give it a recruiting advantage. 
"It will be an important wake-up call to all schools that graduate students, by nature, are poor and need help," said Richard Killmer, an oboe pro­fessor at the University of Rochester's Eastman School of Music. 
Killmer, who for years has also taught classes at Yale, said money concerns frnquent­ly force students to take side jobs that can interfere with their studies. 
By removing the tuition bar­rier, Thomas Duffy, tho acting dean at the Yale School of Music, said he hoped to rocruit students who might otherwise not even consider attending music school. 
Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture's Catholic Culture Series Presents ... 
VALOR, FELLOWSHIP, AND SACRIFICE: 
TOLKlEN'S CATHOLIC MYTH 


11 Tolkien: Truth and Myth 11 
Professor Joseph Pearce 
Professor of Literature at Ave Maria University 
Tuesday, November 1 DeBartolo Hall Room 102 7:3 0 PM 
Also Coming ... 
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 Professor Mary Keys: 11 Tolkien's Literary Politics of Friendship and Humility11 
Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 Mr. Greg Wright: 11 Missing the Spirit: The Scouring of the Shire, Tolkien's Catholicism, and Peter Jackson's Return of the King 11 
Writer in Residence at Puget Sound Christian College 
For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 
Monday, November 7, 2005 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
the hectic days of class regis­tration, Shoup said. 



Cable 

"I just hope it doesn't disrupt dorm atmosphere," sophomorecontinued from page 1 
Sorin resident Grant Van activated, though, until next Eaton said. "Are they making fall. a lot of noise? Are they con­
"This is a huge project," Kirk stantly in and out of the room? said. "It cannot just be done Are hallways a mess? during the summer. We had to Hopefully they'll be in the start it now in order to get this background and it won't be too all completed so students all intrusive." have the same opportunity in Shoup is offering a computer 
the fall semester." cluster in his office for stu­
The implementation of cam­dents who can't get a wireless pus-wide cable will eliminate connection in Sorin and are the need for satellites, Kirk trying to register for classes. said. Currently, satellites are "We'll have free pop and permitted as long as they do candy if people from Sorin are not damage the dorm. having a difficult time getting However, beginning in the fall, a wireless signal," Shoup said. individual ones will be prohib­Shoup did not specify when ited. each dorm would undergo its 
Along with the cable installa­renovations but said residence tion, contractors will also be halls housing students with installing wireless Internet in disabilities will probably be each dorm. But unlike the completed during Christmas cable television, the wireless break when no students are in will be available immediately the dorms. upon completion in each resi­"There are a few students dence hall. with disabilities that have 
Director of Residence Life technology needs that we don't and Housing Jeffrey Shoup will think they could ever be in the meet with the dorms when rector, hall staff they do dark," and residents of "With this decision to Shoup said. "So 
each dorm implement cable, we we've taken 
before they that into 
are going to have
undergo the account and 
upgrade to some hardships. We students who explain the pro­have to say there have a direct 
cedure and how phone line to
[are] going to be some
it will affect police and fire dorm life. sacrifices as we department can 
"With this prepare the residence relax." 
decision to Precautionary
halls for this." 
implement measures are cable, we are being taken to going to have Bill Kirk ensure that some hard -Associate Vice President emergency 
ships," Kirk assistance will
of Residence Life and 
said. "We have be available
Housing
to say there should the [are] going to be dorm need it some sacrifices as we prepare during a 'dark period'. the residence halls for this." "We're working with Notre 
In order to accommodate for Dame Security/Police and the the updated ResNet system fire department to make sure and new Comcast cables, the they're around the dorms that old ResNet and telephone we're working on," assistant 
cables must be taken out ­completely cutting off all wired Internet and telephone con­nection for up to three weeks. The card swiping system will also be de-activated. 
During this "dark period", students living in residence halls undergoing these renova­tions will have to use cash for vending machines and rely on room keys to get in and out of the dorms, Shoup said. 
All dorms will have a tempo­rary wireless system installed during the 'dark period.' But its reliability and effectiveness will not be known until it has been implemented -Sorin is the guinea pig, so to speak. 
"We've made available tem­porary wireless Internet in the lounges that will be installed when the dorm goes dark," Shoup said. "It might be a little primitive-looking, but there will be wires taped down from the attic to the lounge that will radiate 75 feet." 
Shoup said students without wireless cards can rent one from OIT at no cost. He could­n't make any promises on the reliability of the temporary wireless connections but said he is confident they will suf­fice. 
"We don't want people to panic about this," Kirk said. "The hope is that there will be wireless coverage throughout so that the project won't affect exam preparation. We under­stand students might be con­cerned." 
The work in Sorin should be completed, at the latest, by study days. Residents of Sorin are bracing for the worst since their dark period falls during provost of OIT Dewitt Latimer said. 

In another of the University's major technology projects, OIT is working with cell phone providers to improve reception on campus. But the work won't begin until spring when the snow melts off the roofs. 
"We plan to address cover­age and capacity for cell phone reception," Latimer said. "We're using a hidden antenna system where there will be smaller, stealthier cameras hidden around campus to improve the coverage." 
Improved cell phone recep­tion will allow for the discon­tinuation of dorm room tele­phones. Beginning next fall, telephone service will be an option, but no longer provided for everyone. 
Kirk said that discontinuing phone service is a logical step since fewer and fewer students check their room voicemail. 
"We recognize if we're tak­ing away phones from resi­dence halls, it's not going to be perfect because cell phones can't always get a perfect sig­nal," Kirk said. "But we are providing a substantial improvement." 
The major technological overhauls will be lengthy, but thorough, Kirk said. 
"These are old, historical buildings," Kirk said. "In order for it to be safe, long-lasting and professional, it's going to take a long time. Of course issues are going to come up, but we will do our best not to cause too much disruption." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
the current war in Iraq falls D'Arcy said the Church needs into this category. to be extremely careful about
Mass 

"The harm done should not who it admits into its seminar­
continued from page 1 be greater than the good ies. 
achieved," D'Arcy said. "A man who is going to 
D'Arcy described his father, He cited the 2,000-plus become a priest gives up an immigrant from Ireland, as American military deaths, as something very beautiful -a a personal example of prayer­well has the additional thou­life-long relationship with a fulness and reverence for sands maimed, in the conflict. woman, a family, children," he God's will. His father had min­Further, the invasion of Iraq said. imal educa-was preemptive, not Homosexuals are not tion and yet defensive or pre­attracted to marriage, he said, he communi-ventative, D'Arcy and therefore would not be
"Sometimes you 
cated and said, and there was making this sacrifice. 
have to swim
trusted in no such precedent D'Arcy also cited a study God. against the tide. in American history. done by the United States "He prayed He felt the war in Conference of Catholic Bishops 
Sometimes you 
every night," Afghanistan was which found that 81 percent of
have to resist
D'Arcy said. justified, he said, incidents involving sexual mis­"Whether you winds ofthe times because the govern­conduct among priests were are a great that can bring you ment had intelli­homosexual acts. intellectual or gence that AI Qaeda He emphasized, however,
away from Christ. " 
a humble was being harbored the Church preaches compas­worker, that is there and the group sion toward all people, includ­what brings John D'Arcy had already ing homosexuals. the Church attacked and "The homosexual person
Bishop

together. proven itself to be should be treated with the God's will." dangerous. greatest respect," D'Arcy said. 
Calling Saint Mary's a "privi­Today's war in Iraq stands in "It is the homosexual act that leged place," D' Arcy also stark contrast to the war of his is wrong. It is against nature. encouraged students to make youth, World War II, he said. The body of a man and a the sacraments, particularly In that conflict, woman are made the Eucharist, an important the entire nation for this union." 
"[My father]
part of their lives. The sacrificed to sup­When asked Eucharist is Christ's sacrifice port the effort. prayed every what he would do for his people, he said, and Today, the night. Whether you if he were Pope should be taken seriously. responsibility for a day, D'Arcy
are a great 
D'Arcy acknowledged it is falls largely on joked that he difficult to remain focused on the shoulders of intellectual or a would probably the final judgment during the the military pass on the offer.
humble worker, 
span of one's life, but said if while the rest of "No, I think I
that is what brings 
successful the meeting with the country con­would do what the Lord will be ultimately be tinues with its the Church John Paul [II] "joyful." routine. did," he said. "I
together.
"Sometimes you have to "I respect the would reach out
God's will." 
swim against the tide," D'Arcy military and the to young people said. "Sometimes you have to men and women and strengthen resist winds of the times that [serving]," John D'Arcy the priesthood." can bring you away from D'Arcy said. "I He described
Bishop
Christ." think they are Pope Benedict 
During the reception follow­brave and are ·XVI as a "bril­ing the Mass, D'Arcy doing their duty." liant theologian" and "very answered a myriad of ques­In response to a question gentle and very kind." tions, most regarding the about homosexuality in the "I like him," D'Arcy said. Church's stance on social and priesthood, D'Arcy said he "He is a musician He plays the political issues. would support a letter from piano. He loves Mozart. I think 
Responding to a student's the Vatican mandating screen­he will be a wonderful pope." question, D'Arcy said although ing homosexual seminarians. the Church does view some Citing his experience as a Contact Megan O'Neil at wars as just, he does not feel seminarian spiritual director, onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
0 • 0 lTl;;---C~;,~~;'jor Eihtcs and Religious Values in Busin~~~:--.. 
•  0.  and  
0.0  ··········­ The lnstitutefor Ethical Business Worltlwid~.  :  
Proudly Present  

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
''Ethics and Compliance in a Large Public Company" 
Kathryn Reimann, Senior Vice President, Global Compliance, American Express Corporation 
Tuesday, November 8., 2005 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 








ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 7, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mamma Rosa closer to sainthood 
BOMH-An Italian mother who raised 11 rhildren moved alwad on the road to possi­
• bin sainthood Sunday amid a Vatican cam­paign in favor of large families. 
l·:urosia Fabris, known as "Mamma Hosa," raisNI two childnm whose mother died while they wen1 little. tlwn married their father and had nirw children with him. 
The virttws ol' Fabris, who died in 1932. wew honorml Sunday in a beatilieation cere­mony in Vicenza. rwar hm· nativn farming vil­lagn in nortlwrn Italy. Beatification is the last formal stop lwfore possible sainthood. 
On Wmhwsday. Pope Benedkt XVI praised largn families and called for countries to approve l«1gislation and other incentives to lwlp them. Tlw pontiff has said there is no l'uturn without children. 
Presiding over tlw eermnony in Vieenza's catlwdral was Cardinal Jose Maria Saraiva Marlins, who !wads tho Vatican office over­seeing tho procoss for sainthood. 
Iraqis flee town on Syrian border 
BAGIIDAD, Iraq -Seoros of torrified Iraqis flrHl a bosiegod town Sunday, wav­ing white flags and hauling their bHlong­ings to escape a second day of fighting lwtweon U.S. Marines and ai-Qaida-lnd militants along the Syrian border. U.S. and Iraqi troops battled insurgents house­to-house, tho U.S. military said. 
Tlw U.S. commander of the joint force, Col. Stephen W. Davis, told The Associated Press late Sunday that his troops had moved "about halfway" through II usaybah. a marknt town along the l~uphrates Hiver about 200 miles northwest of Baghdad. according to the survey. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Small plane hits powerlines and cars 
SPHING, Texas -A small plane struck power lines and crashed into two cars as it tried to land Sunday, killing two aboard the aircraft and injuring one person in a ear. authorities said. 
Tlw plane was headed to David Wayne Hooks Airport, just northeast of Houston, said Holand Herwig, a spokesman for the Fnderal Aviation Administration. 
Texas Department of Public Safety spokesman Tom Yinger said the two peo­ple on the plane were a man and a boy. Their names and ages were not immedi­atnly available. 
KTHK-TV in Houston reported that a woman in the ear was trnated for minor injuries. 

Gas prices reach pr~hurricane level 
CAMAHILLO, Calif. -Hetail gas prices plunged an average of 23 cents nation­wide in the past two weeks, marking a return to pre-Hurricane Katrina levels, according to a survey. 
The weighted average price for all three grades deelined to $2.45 a gallon on Friday, said Trilby Lundberg, who pub­lislws the semimonthly Lundberg Survey of 7,000 gas stations around the country. 
S11lf'-serve regular averagnd $2.43 a gal­lon nalionwidn in the past two wenks. The price for midgrade was $2.53, while pre­mium-grade hit $2.63. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Murdered four-year-old mourned 
INIJIANAI'OI.IS -The mourners who had gatlwred Saturday to say goodbye to 4-year­old .Jason MeGuiTny were asked to imagine how much the little boy is enjoying heaven right now. 
I lours later, at a funeral li1r the father who shot Jason before taking his own life. the same preacher asknd mourners to imagine that even l·:d McGuffey could be in heaven, too. 
.Jason was remembered in a morning service that drew about 300 peopl.e to East 91st Christian Church. 

Tornado rips through midwest 
22 dead and hundreds injured in KY and IN; twister thought to be at least an F3 
Associated Press 

EVANSVILLE, Ind. -A 
tornado tore across western 
Kentucky and Indiana early 
Sunday, killing at least 22 
people as it eut through a 
mobile home park and oblit­
erated trailers and houses as 
rnsidenl<> slept. 

The tornado, with winds of' 
at least 158 mph, hit a horse 
racing track near 
Henderson, Ky., then jumped 
into Indiana around 2 a.m. 
"It was just a real loud 
roar. It didn't seem like it 
lasted over 45 seconds to a 
minute, then it was calm 
again,'" said Steve Gaiser, 
who lives near the Eastbrook 
Mobile llome Park in 
Evansville. 

At least 17 people were 
killed in the mobile home 
park, according to Erie 
Williams of the Vanderburgh 
County Sherilfs Department. 
More people were believed 
to still be trapped in the 
debris, and National Guard 
units were called in to help 
with search-and-recovery 
eiTorts. At least 200 people 
were injured during the 
storm. 

"They were in trailer 
homes, homes that were just 
torn apart by the storm, so 
they're just now getting in 
there trying to find people," 
said deputy Vanderburgh 
county coroner Annie 
Groves. "It's just terrible." 
Rescuers on the scene 
since 2 a.m. reported seeing 
children wandering the area 
looking for their parents and 
parents searching for miss­
ing children. Children's bicy­
cles and other toys were 
strewn amid the debris of 
aluminum siding, mattress­
es, chairs and insulation. 
Five other people were confirmed dead in neighbor­ing Warrick County, east of Evansville, where the Ohio Hiver city of Newburgh was hit. No deaths were reported in Kentucky. 
The storm reduced homes to splinters and scattered debris across the country­side. Entire bloeks of build­ings were nothing but rub­ble. 
Indiana homeland security 
SOMALIA 

Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels surveys the tornado damage in southwestern Indiana 
on Sunday. 
spokeswoman Pam Bright said about 100 of the 350 or so homes in at the Evansville mobile home park were destroyed and 125 others there were damaged. 
Larry and Christie Brown rode out the storm inside one mobile home. 
"Man, it was more than words can say," Larry Brown said. "We opened the door and there wasn't anything sitting there." 
Chad Bennett, assistant lire chief in Newburgh, told CNN that sirens sounded, but most people didn't hear them because it happened in the middle ofthe night. 
The tornado developed in a line of thunderstorms that rolled rapidly eastward across the Ohio Valley. The National Weather Service had posted severe thunder­storm warnings for sections ofnorthern Ohio. 
Ryan Presley, a weather service meteorologist in Paducah, Ky., said a single tornado touched down near Smith Mills in western Kentucky, jumped the river and cut a 15-to 20-mile swath through Indiana's Vanderburgh and Warrick counties. 
The tornado appeared to be at least an F3 on the Fujita scale, which ranges from FO, the weakest, to F5, the strongest. An F3 has winds ranging (rom 158 mph to 206 mph, and the tornado that hit on Sunday may have been even stronger, Presley said. · 
. Warrick County Sheriff Marvin lleilman said the vic­tims indudnd a woman who was eight months' pregnant, her husband and a young child in the rural town of Degonia Springs. A te1~nage girl was also killed near Boonville, and her father was critically injured, he said. 
11m Martin, 42, was at his parenLo;' mobile home when they heard the wind and then the tornado picked up the home and shoved into t11e neighbor's yard. 
He and his parents eseaped unharmed. but they heard several neighbors call­ing (or help. A nearby mobile home was ov1~rtunwd, and another appeared to have been obliterated. 


Pirates becoming more ambitious 
Associated Press 

NAIHOBI, Kenya -The violent attack on a cruise liner ofT Somalia's eoast shows piralns from the anar­chic country on the Horn of Africa are becoming bolder and more ambitious in their efforts to hijack ships for ransom and loot, a mar­itime official warned Sunday. 
Judging by the location of Saturday's attack, the pirates likely were from the same group that hijacked a U.N.-chartered aid ship in June and held its crew and food cargo hostage for 100 days, said Andrew Mwangura, head of the Kenyan chapter of the Seafarers Assistance Program. 
That gang is one of three well­organized pirate groups on the 1 ,8SO-mile coast of Somalia, which has had no effective government sinee opposition leaders ousted a dictatorship in 1991 and then turned on each other, leaving the nation of 7 million a patchwork of warlord fiefdoms. 
Illustrating the chaos, attackers in Somalia's capital, Mogadishu, threw grenades and exploded a land mine Sunday near a convoy carrying the prime minister of a transitional gov­ernment that has been trying to exert eontrol sincn late last year. 
The attack, which killed at least live bodyguards, was the second in six months involving explosions near Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi, whose internally dividml gov­ernment spends much of its lime in Kenya. 
Even before the attaek on the liner Seabourn Spirit, Gedi had urged neighboring countries to send warships to patrol Somalia's eoast, which is Africa's longest and lies along key shipping lanes linking the Mediterranean with the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean. 

----------------------.. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 7, 2005 

and "anytime Zbikowski touched the Irish will close out the home the ball," he said. season with victories against "I know Navy is decent and Navy and Syracuse. Syracuse is pretty weak," he said. "I don't think these next two 
"The excitement is  weekends will  
still growing, though, because  "I don't think these  be exciting in terms of 'Are  
wins are building  next two weekends  we  going  to  
up and we're look­ing ahead to BCS bowl games like  will be exciting in terms of 'Are we going  win?', but they will be exciting in ter111s of 'VVe  
the Fiesta Bowl· or  to win?' but they will  are  going  to  
Orange Bowl." Students said the Irish offense will  be exciting in terms of 'We are going to win.'  win?'" she said. "It will be nice for the seniors  
make the last two  It will be nice for the  to  end  with  
home games -despite the lesser opponents.  seniors to end with wins at home."  wins at home." Stevens said he is looking  
''I'm expecting  forward to the  
equal excitement  Kirsten Jackson  Syracuse game  
[in the final home games]," Ludwig  senior  because it will be his last as a  
said. "These next  Notre  Dame  
games  will  be  undergrad, but  

about seeing what our team can has some reservations about do offensively [and] trying new Saturday. things. I think there are things to "I think [the Navy game] might look forward to besides tough be a letdown," he said. opponents." Ludwig said he won't be at 
Jackson said she is confident Saturday's matchup against Navy because he has "other plans." 
"I missing the next game, but if it were against Tennessee or USC -not Navy -I would go," he said. "The only time I hear peo­ple missing games is when they have other important plans and the games aren't against tough opponents. I wouldn't ever want to miss a big game like Tennessee or USC, though." 
Cimino said it is "ridiculous" when students skip games based on the opponent. 
"I bleed gold and blue," he said. ''I'm a third generation Domer and I don't think I've missed a home football or bas­ketball game since I've been here." 
Four Air Force F-16 Fighting Falcons provided by the Indiana National Guard's 113th Fighter Squadron flew over the stadium prior to kickoff at the game. 
Pat Leonard contributed to this report. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 

Football 
continued from page 1 
Heisler said the University implemented the new system to avoid situations similar to the Michigan State pep rally, where people were "waiting in vain" outside the pep rally only to be turned away from the event due to lack of seating. 
"We've got to find a way to be more accurate with the numbers, particularly on the student end," he said. "It's important to come up with a better gauge of what student attendance will be, because that's the 'X' factor." But organizers are having a hard time predicting student atten­dance, Heisler said. 
"You kind of have to throw out the USC rally [when making esti­mates[ because of where it was and BYU doesn't count because it was at the end of fall break," he said. "I couldn't tell you what's going to happen even this week." 
Heisler called the system a 
Cimino said. "In my experience it was the worst showing of the year, [but] I don't think it will happen again." 
For some students, any pep rally in comparison to the hyped­up Oct. 14 stadium affair on USC weekend would be lackluster. 
"To be honest, I think people didn't show up because it was after USC and I think people thought it wouldn't be as good [compared to the stadium pep rally]." senior Kirsten Jackson said. "I also think kids were kind of burnt out." 
Jonathan Stevens -a senior and member of the band -also said students were "burnt out" partly due to event's duration. 
"I heard a lot of people talking and saying the reason they weren't going anymore was because the dorms go over so early and kids don't want to waste an hour and a half [before the event begins]." he said. "I think that's deterring people from the pep rallies lately." 
Although the pep rally lacked 
some of its 
trademark 

"work  in  "You kind ofhave to  energy, student  
progress"  and  throw out the USC  excitement was  
said organizers are seeking ways to address the  rally [when making estimates] because of  reinvigorated during Saturday's victo­ 
issue and find out  where it was and BYU  ry  against  
how to restructure the system to accommodate  doesn't count because it was at the end of  Tennessee. Kevin Ludwig, a sophomore,  
more fans.  fall break. I couldn't  said the game  
Some students said the less for­midable nature of  tell you what's going to happen even  was most elec­trifying during the final 15  
Notre Dame's final  this week."  minutes.  
home opponents  'The best part  
killed the electrici­ty previously per­vasive on campus,  John Heisler senior associate athletic  was seeing our team take con­trol in the  
and for that rea­ director  fourth quarter  
son Friday's pep  because  I've  
rally  housed  a  never really had  

somewhat less-than-packed stu­confidence we could do that," he dent section. said. 
"I think there's a little hangover Cimino said the most exciting from the USC game still, a little parts of the game were many ­letdown," sophomore Michael big plays on offense and defense 
Deep 
continued from page 1 
many other government officials above him, knew of the corrupt cover-up efforts taking place," O'Connor said. "But he found a way to expose the truth because he felt compelled as a public ser­vant to expose the scandal." 
O'Connor had hoped that Woodward would be able to con­firm his client was the famous Deep Throat, but the reporter upheld his promise only to reveal Deep Throat's identity upon his death. 
Since revealing Deep Throat's identity to the publie last summer, O'Connor has been working with Felt on a new book entitled "A G­Man's Life: The FBI, Being 'Deep Throat' and the Struggle for Honor in Washington," to be pub­lished this spring by Public Affairs Books. 
O'Connor cited the Watergate scandal as example of the good that can result when sources are kept confidential. "Deep Throat" led a "a skillful and highly coura­geous public discussion" by secretly informing Woodward and Bernstein of the misdeeds of Nixon's administration, O'Connor said. 
The central issue O'Connor addressed was the extent to which journalists are currently and should be protected from having to reveal their sources when the issues they report on become objects of public contro­versy. 
"Deep Throat" was an example of journalists being able to with­hold the identity of their source, O'Connor said. He believes the protection currently provided to journalists is insufficient and under fire. 
O'Connor cited pre-war intelli­gence reporting as an example. 
"I looked almost everywhere for contemporaneous investigative journalism on the Bush adminis­tration's allegations that Saddam Hussein had WMDs in Iraq, and it was extremely hard to come by," O'Connor said. "Journalists need to be reassured that they can inform the public without risk of later being forced to reveal their sources or be indicted." 
O'Connor expressed concern that today's public demand for "headline-grabbing journalism" turns leak investigations into pre­carious situations for journalists and said they "may be harmful to the future of government trans­parency." 
He emphasized the need for a federal shield law, which current­ly provides some protection to journalists, to be "strengthened so that journalists can present the issues without fear of indictment, and let the public debate." 
O'Connor also acknowledged how the nature of modern leak investigations is in some ways dif­ferent from the Nixon era, saying that "today Woodward and Bernstein might be bloggers." 
Contact Pat Dowd at 
pdowdl@nd.edu 

r------------------, 
: VERA BRADl"'EY : 
1 20% off with ND/SMCStu.LD. 1 
I  I  
:  ~·~U~U  I  
t  East Bank Emporium Re~.1aurant Bldg.  1  
I  121 S. Niles Ave.. (574} 232-8488  I  

L------------------~ 




University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France Paris, France 
INFORMATION MEETING 
"Tying Up Loose Ends Before Packing Your Suitcase" 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 



Wednesday, November 9, 2005 7:30PM 118 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 Academic Year 2006-2007 Fall 2006 Spring 2007 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 

THE OBSERVER 








USINESS
Monday, November 7, 2005 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,530.76 +8.17

}ones 
•
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume 1,667 164 !11'7 2,690,977,070 

AMEX I ,684.69 ~9.52 NASDAQ 2,169.43 +9.21 NYSf 7,507.56 ~27.25 S&PSOO 1.220.14 +0.20 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 14,075.96 0.00 FTSf IOO(London) 5,423.60 -8.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ)  +0.35  +0.14  40.08  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.83  +0.22  26.66  
JDS UNIPHASE QDSU)  -2.08  -0.05  2.35  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +3.36  +0.41  12.61  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  +2.06  +0.36  17.87  


30-YEAR BOND  +0.31  +0.15  48.52  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.28  +0.13  46.57  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.29  +0.13  45.55  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.47  +0.18  38.65  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.20  60.58  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -4.00  457.90  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.53  87.10  
fxcha  Rates  
YEN  118.3550  
EURO  0.8469  
POUND  0.5716  
CANADIAN$  1.1855  

IN BRIEF 
$25 billion acquisition put on hold 
INDIANAPOLIS-Legal problems for strug­gling medieal deviee maker Guidant grew Friday as a deadline to dose a $25.4 billion acquisition by Johnson & Johnson passed with no apparent movement by eithHr side. 
The two eompanies had a self-imposed deadline to dose the deal Friday, but efforts stalled Wednesday when New Brunswiek, N.J.-based J&J said it might not proceed because of sweeping recalls and regulatory investigations that have hit Guidant sinee June. 
J&.J spokesman .Jeffrey Leebaw dedined to comment Friday on the status of the deal. Steve Tragash, a spokesman for Indianapolis­based Guidant, also declined to eomment. 
Guidant has said that neither eompany is depending on the deal for future financial suc­cess, but that J&J is still obligated to eomplete the takeover. 
Meanwhile, the Conneeticut law firm Seott & Seott, I.I.C announeed Friday it had !iled a see­ond securities fraud lawsuit against Guidant, alleging company executives artitieially inllat­ed its stock priee by concealing defects and other liabilities among its implantable defibril­lators. 
Merck to face federal bial in Houston 
IIOUSTON -With Merck & Co. now 1­and-1 in state lawsuits over its Vioxx painkillnr, the nation's No. 5 drug maker may faee higher stakes later this mM1th in the first fndoral trial of ehargns that it knowingly rushed a potentially lethal drug to marknt to pocket billions in profits. 
"They havn a frnsh crack at it in a eourt that is a vory important court," said Benjamin Zipursky, a prornssor at Fordham I.aw Srhool in Nnw York. "For Morek, repu­l.ationally. invnstors will look at what hap­p«>ns in rndPral 1~ourts as a signal ol' tlw slrnngth ol' tlw goods on M«>rek." 
Tlw l'ndPral Vioxx trial is sclwduiPd to lwgin Nov. 21J in lloust.on, just 40 milns north or tlw statn court whm·11 Tnxas jurors last August slappnd Mnn~k with a $25:{ mil­lion vnrdirl in tlw first Vioxx trial in thn nation. Tnxas caps on punitivn damagns will eut that amount to no morn than $2h.1 mil-
Greenspan warns Congress 
Large deficits could cause "economic disruptions"; hurricanes helped economy 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -With just three months left bnfore he leaves office, Federal Heserve Chairman Alan Greenspan raised a warning to Congress: The country could faec "serious economie disruptions" if bloated budget deficits are not curbnd. 
The Fed chief's strong. comments, made during an appearance Thursday beforn Congress' Joint Economic Committnc, eomn al'tnr the government pro­duced a $311) billion budgnt dnfieit this ynar -an improvement from the record amount or rod ink registered in 2004 but still thn third-highest dnlieit on record. 
In the short term, costs n1lated to rebuilding after the trio of devastating hur­rieanes will make it harder to improve the nation's bal­ance sheets, hn aeknowl­edgcd. In the long term, a huge wave of retiring baby boomers will put massive strains on government resources, he said. 
'There are no easy chok­es. Easy choices are long gone," said Greenspan, whose 18-plus year run at the Fed comes to an end on Jan. 31. 

Congress is working on separate packages of tax cuts and spending cuts. The Fed is keeping a Persistently large deficits in spending. Greenspan
Even as he sounded an close eye on high energy will eventually push up said he'd likn to see the div­alarm about the dangers prices to make sure they interest rates, Greenspan idend tax cut extended ­that budget deficits pose to don't spark broader inlla­said. Higher borrowing but only it it is paid for. the country's long-term tion. costs would weigh on the "Crafting a budget stratn­health, Greenspan struck a "We are very firm in the willingness of consumers gy that meets the nation's more positive note about notion that this country and businesses to spend longer-run needs will the economy's current should not visit the 1970s and invest and that could become ever more difTicult prospeets after being jolted again in the way of inlla­be a drag on economic and costly the more we by the recent hurricanes. tion," Greenspan said, growth, analysts say. delay," he said. 
Katrina, Rita and Wilma referring to a period where "I find it utterly incon­The Fed ehief also under­are likely to "exert a drag" the economy was rocked by ceivable, frankly" that per­scored his belief that bene­on employment and pro­skyrocketing prices. sistent budget deticits over fits currently promised to duction in the short term On the budget front, the long run "will not have the baby boom generationand may aggravate infla­Greenspan called on a significant impact on through Soda! Security and tion pressures, Greenspan Congress to get the nation's long-term interest rates," Medicare likely cannot be said. "But the economic fiscal house in order and he said. met and probably will have fundamentals remain tirm, bring the swollen deficits Greenspan repeated his to be trimmed. and the U.S. economy under eontrol. call for lawmakers to "We owe it to those who appears to retain important "Unless the situation is restore caps on spending. will retire over the next forward momentum," reversed, at some point, And, he urged lawmakers couple of decades to prom­Greenspan said in his most these budget trends will to pay for any future tax ise only what the govern­extensive remarks thus far cause serious economie dis­cuts with either increases ment can deliver," on the impact of the storms. ruptions," he said. in other taxes or reductions Greenspan said. 


Trump sells Gary riverboat casino 
Associated Press pavilion and restaurants that the two Trump Entertainment said it expeet­
riverboat'> shan~. ed to receive $227 million from thn sale 

(;AnY, Ind. -Donald Trump's casino Gary Mayor Scott L. King said the aftor accounting li>r certain taxns, fi1ns 
company said Friday it had agreed to sale should be a boon for the eity's and othnr dosing eosl<> and nxpnnses. 
sell its Lake Michigan riverboat and hopes to redevelop the lakeshore to Trump said the saln n1wdnd thn 
hotl11 to the owner or its dock-sharing boost the regional economy, which approval of rngulators but nxpednd it 
competitor in a $253 million d11al. include plans by M<~jestie Star owner to dose by the end of the year. 
Tlw sale of the casino comns as Donald Barden to build a hotnl and Janws B. Perry, prnsidnnt and chin!' Trump Ent11rtainnwnt Hesorts works convention center. nxecutive ol' Trump Entertainnwnt on its r11organization al'tnr f'iling f'or "From the city's perspective I think H11sorts Inc., said tlw saln would giw bankruptcy protndion last year and this is going to l'adlitatn the broader tlw r.om pany monny to rnd ucn dnht just months aft11r it was fiwr.ed to drop lakdhmt developnwnt," King said in a and invnst in its Atlantic City, N.J., its plans to build a new casino in south­phonn intnrvinw Friday. rnsorts. nrn Indiana's Orangn County. Trump has opnrat11d tho (;ary casino "Tlw nmploynns at thn sitn r.an lw 
Thn casino's buynr is Las Vngas­sincn it opnnnd nino Yll<tr·s ago, and proud of tlwir w-.complishnwnts thns1• 
basl1d Thn Majnstic Star Casino LLC, promotnd it through such high-profiln past nine ynars," Pnrry said. "Majnst.ir 
which has a nnighboring casino at activities as staging the Trump-owned has bmm a good neighbor, and we wish 
Gary. The two companies have a joint Miss USA pageant in Gary in 2001 and tlwm 1~nntinund sucenss as the opera­
venture that owns the dock, entrance 2002. tor ol' both boats at the site." 

page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
Tbr lrukpnulnrt, DtJi/y Nnuspapn &rvifrK Notu Dame a,.J Sai"t Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegardcn 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoco@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prin.t and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent d1e opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ~rvt:r (USPS 'i99 2-4000) i. published Monday thwugh Friday o.cc:pt during exam and vaciUion periods. A subscription 10 Tilt Obsc.:rvt!r is $100 forQne .u:ademic year.$)') t(,ronc~Jemesu:r 
111<" Observer is published a1: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addres.s corrtttiom ro: Notre Dame, IN 465%-o779 The Observer Periodic.~! postage paid at NOire Dame: P.O. Bo:x 779 and addirion;r,l mailing offices. 024 Somh Dining Hall 
Ncnre Dame. IN 46'556·0n9 
TI1e Ob~rvc:r i~ J mcmher uf the As,<,odated Press. AJJ.reproduaion ri!l,ht~ .tre r~rvro. 

--------------------~-----. 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT 
Monday, November 7, 2005 

Beating (around the) Bush 
The glass case of composure sur­rounding the Bush White House has finally begun to crack, and partisans across the country are now waiting anxiously to see what the next few weeks will hold in store for the future of American poli­tics. 
With any luck, it will be a tumultuous future of change and upheavaL 
Three months ago, the Hepublican establishment may have looked at the possibility of a record-breaking hurricane season in the Southeast as a political gift from God. After all, what better way to showcase a future presidential candi­date (Jeb Bush) than by positioning him as the Florida-governor-turned­hurricane-hero of America? Sadly­for the Bush clan, that is -Hurricane Katrina thundered into Louisiana and created both a burning city and a burning Bush. 
Katrina was crack number one. Racial and class injustices exist all over America, and although it was unfair to single out George Bush as a racist and elitist, it is perfectly accu­rate to call the status quo of society those things. The fact is, in a nation that prides itself in democratic unity, equal opportunity, and a 13 percent poverty rate, ne.arly 28 percent of the residents of New Orleans were living in poverty prior to Hurricane Katrina. African-Americans not only dispro­portionately constituted one in every three hurricane victims because of the ignored realities of urban segre­gation, but also suffered a 34.9 per­cent poverty rate in New Orleans before Katrina revealed the bleakness of blackness to white America. 
Tom DeLay was crack number two. This conniving Congressman from Texas confirmed America's suspicions about corruption in politics and 

Joey Falco 
Forty Ounces 

revealed the sad truth that democracy may no longer rest in the hands of the voting public. After being indicted in late September for criminal conspira­cy bncause of a schemP to funnel cor­porate contributions to Hepublican candidates for the Texas Legislature, this eternal thorn in the side or all that is good and right in the world will finally suffer the consequences for committing such a blatant crime against democracy. 
Harriet Miers was crack number three. Cronyism and nepotism have existed in the White Ilousn ever since John Adams appointed his good friend John Marshall as the fourth Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. However, with Bush's dubious selection of his inexperienced pal Miers to replace the esteemed Sandra Day O'Connor on the bench, the pub­lic finally decided to speak out and demand that democratic justice remain a feature of the judicial branch. 
Scooter Libby was crack number four. For the first time in over 130 years (since the Ulysses S. Grant administration). a sitting White House official was indicted, and the reper­cussions of this scandal in the vice president's office have the potential to bring down a number of key adminis­tration officials. After all, while the direct charges of the Libby case are obstruction of justice and other felonies related to the release of undercover CIA agent Valerie Plame's name to the media, the real implica­tions of the case extend directly to the most controversial decision of the Bush administration -the Iraq War. 
Specifically, it was alleged that Libby (and any other official eventual­ly included in the charges) may have released Plame's name as an attack against her husband, Joseph Wilson, for writing a New York Times op-ed piece that discredited a key claim used by President Bush for engaging in the Iraq War -that Iraq had signed a deal with Niger for 500 tons of uranium yellowcake, a potential bomb ingredient. Wilson spent time investigating the claim in Niger and found that it was entirely spurious, thereby nullifying a key piece of evi­dence presented to Congress in 2002 before it gave the President thn authority to engage in military aetion against Saddam Hussein. 
If the revelation of Plame's CIA identity to the publie turns out to be a spiteful act on the part of the Bush administration, it would ·call into question the truth behind the reasons for entering a war that has now killed over 2,000 American servicemen and women. This would in turn call into qunstion the ethics and morality of President Bush himself-a man who, ironically, vowed in his 2000 cam­paign, "When I put my hand on the Bible I will restore honor and integri­ty to the Oval Office." 
Now, in an effort to prevent a fifth crippling crack from shattering through the remnants of his adminis­tration, Bush has recently tried to dis­tract the nation with threats of avian flu and the nomination of ultra-con­servative Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court -a man so ideological that he will surely distract Congress in a hissy-fit of partisan bickering that will last well into 2006. 
However, this is not the same post­Sept. 11 American public whose fear was manipulated by false claims into supporting Bush's decision to go to war in Iraq. The fear of blood-thirsty chickens and eye-gouging sparrows will no longer be enough to distract America into blindly following its leader like a flock of confused sheep. 
Katrina, DeLay, Miers and Libby have shown that there now exists a threat far greater than that of terror­ism or bird flu. There is a threat against democracy, and the American people will not stand for it. 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be con­tacted at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY

Heather Mike Gilloon Van Hoegarden Matt Puglisi 
What do you think of Notre 
Megan O'Neil Kyle Cassily 


lSubmitaLetter
Kelly Meehan Anna Fricano Dame's disciplinary policies? 
"Everyone thinks ofchanging the world, 

Peter Ninneman Scene 
but no one thinks ofchanging himself" 

Viewpoint Molly Griffin 
1to~the·Ediiorat I 
Leo Tolstoy 
Laura Sonn 
Russian author

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Graphics 

,www.ndsmcobserver.com i
at www.ndsmcobserver.com
Graham Ebetsch 

, ... ,,,,.,... ~-::~~.:!:':::::::·:··:·.: .... ·.···.••...,.•.·.·.•.;.·.··:::········.. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, November 7, 2005 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Statistics are misleading 
I would likn to say a few words in response to James Dubray's lettnr to the editor in the Nov. 4 Viewpoint section entitlnd "I hopn, I filar, I pray." 
lie states in his lettnr that he "hopes that these crosses have nothing to do with politics." Trying to separate an issue likn abortion from politics is next to impossible. Those who vinw abortion as thn social injustice that it is will naturally work to change tho eurrent polides. It would be like me say­ing that Dubray's comments about a larger social safety net, univnrsal healthcarc and the war in Iraq have nothing to do with polities. 
Sm~ondly, I'd like to indulge Dubray in his numbers game. lie states that the numbnr of Iraqi civilians who have died in thn war in Iraq numbers 110,000. Ifl am not mistaken, he takns this numbnr from thn easily debunked Lancet Report, whkh hw.; a eonfidence interval so large as to be almost sta­tistkally mnaningless. I'll quote: Compared to the pre-war dnath rate in Iraq, "We estimate there were 98,000 extra dHaths (95 pHrcHnt Cl 8000-194,000) during the post-war pnriod." Tlw numbnrs in parentheses show that the number may b(1 anywhere from 8,000 dnaths to 194,000, an absurd rang(1. Now, don't get me wrong, the deaths as a result of the Iraq War arc a tragndy, but to inflate the statistics like that hints at a motive other than accurate portrayal of the faets. 
I also have some other numbers that I would like to throw out fi1r eonsideration. Five thousand-the number of Kurds killed by Sad dam's gas attack on the city of Ilalabja (accord­ing to the U.S. Statn Dnpartment). One hundred eighty thou­sand -the number of Kurds who were killed or had "disap­peared" as a result of operations by Saddam Hussein's gov­nrnmnnt during his al-Anfal Campaign 1986-1989 (according to I Iuman Righl<> Watch and Amnesty International, hardly biL'itions of conservatism). This barely scratches the surface. You can play with numbers all you like, hut one of the biggest mass murderers of the 20th century is now being tried by the very people who he used to bomb, torture and execute. If that's notjustiee, I don't know what is. 
Dubray then goes on to say that he fears that the motiva­tions of the Catholic Church with regards to abortion are cor­rupt, because of the influence of the Republican party in the Church and the potential for more donations from Republican donors to offset the money lost to the child abuse scandals. I guess he needs more of a reason than that the Catholic Church sees abortion as an affront to the dignity of all life, making it a practice worth opposing. Capital punish­ment occurs much less in the United States than abortion does, and thus receives proportionately less attention, in my opinion. 
Lastly, Dubray goes on to hypothesize that if Democrats were the majority in the Catholic Church, then those who had voted for the Iraq War would not be allowed to receive communion. Let's take a look at the Democrats' voting record for the Resolution: 148 against, 109 for (60 percent-40 per­cent). To imply that the Democratic Party was united against the use of force in Iraq is misleading. I can go through the recorded speeches of numerous prominent Democratic Congresspersons, Sen. Hillary Clinton most notably, to fur­ther illustrate this fact, but I think my point is made. 
It is one thing to be against an issue or a highly-controver­sial war, but to do so using inaccurate statistics and mislead­ing implications does more harm than good, especially from the side that prizes rational debate and dissent as a corner­stone of American democracy. 

Ryan Crane freshman Alumni Nov.4 
Grouping is natural 
Is Notre Dame dubbed a self-segregated campus because Asians have a propensity to hang out with other Asians. or I lis panics with members of their own ethnic minority group, and so on? I am not about to deny that the latter takes place. Yet, I don't see anything inherently wrong with this. 
If you take a look at the bigger picture, you'll notice that birds of a feather indeed flock together, even outside the racial spectrum. Football players enjoy spending time togNher, just as musicians find comfort and joy in each other's company. It's only natural. Would you label this self-segregation? I wince at the word, with its negative connotation. I don't believe that people who clump togeth­er do so with the intent of shunning people dissimilar to them. They just happen to find common ground and a strong foundation by which to form their relationships. 
As a minority myself, I understand the value of discus­sion among members of one's ethnic group. People of the same ethnic heritage tend to have similar experiences and are consequently more likely to understand eaeh another. Dialog in this setting about one's culture and out­look facilitates a greater understanding and acceptance of oneself. Collnge is a time to cultivate one's self-knowledge, which entails a certain degree of understanding in rp,gards to one's roots. This is why I find it not only aceeptable, but valuable for ethnic minority groups to come together. 
That isn't to say that people of the same ethnie back­ground should always spend time with each other; it's important to branch out and meet others who might dis­agree with one's beliefs or culture. After all, this is where learning in its most natural form takes place. 

Last year, I remember being somewhat annoyed when I would see minority groups isolating themselves from oth­ers, perhaps because it seemed as though they were alienating others. Now, however, I understand the need for some people to do this. Can you imagine how hard it would be to live in a foreign country, stripped of your family and the comforts of the food, music and culture you've been used to your whole life? It's no wonder that some minority students seek each other out and inevitably "self-segregate" themselves. 
If you truly want to learn about another culture and get to know people from other backgrounds and walks of life, take the initiative. Next time you pass by an ethnic minor­ity group at the dining hall, ask to join them. You just might learn something about yourself. 
Stephanie Yoshida sophomore Howard Nov. I 
U-WIRE 
De:mocratic lockdown 

On Tuesday, an act of political drama played out in the U.S. Senate, ending with the minority Democrat<> winning the day despite harsh criticism from Republicans. 
The rarely used Rule 21, which throws the chamber into a special section closed to out..<>~ders and the Staff press, brought attention to a Editorial much needed discussion. 
Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., 
OSU Daily

forced the session because he 
Barometer

said Republicans are stalling 
Oregon state

an inquiry into prewar intelli­
University

gence about the never-found 
weapons of ma<>s destruetion in 
Iraq. 
The usually civil body of 100 lawmakers wa-; thrown into a tizzy fit. Hepublkan senator Bill Frist told the press that it wa<; nothing morn than a "political stunt," and that "f(Jr the nP.xt year and a half, I can't trust Senator Heid," The Wa-;hinhrton Post reported. 
Despite the whining by Frist, the Democral-;' secretive, well-planned tactics worked, in that reporters and commentators at least f(Jr a moment were brought back to a discussion about some­thing that matters: why we went to war and how the administration sold it to tlw public. 
The Post reported that after two hours behind dosed doors, Frist announced a bipartisan ta-;k force would report on the progress of the intelli­gence committee's inquiry into tlte prewar use of intelligence. 
The drama came in the context of both sides claiming the other just wants to change the sub­ject. Republicans say Democrat<; want to stop talk­ing about the president's latest nomination to the Supreme Court. Democrat..<> say Hcpublieans want to move past the indictment and resignation of a top aide to Vice President Dick Cheney. 
The story isn't about what Lewis Libby may have told a reporter. It's not about Valerie Plame or Joseph Wilson. 
The story L<> about a president starting a war. then offering new rea<>ons for il<> existence. 
It's easy to look past that, just give in to the administration and pat it on thn baek for deposing of a brutal dictator. 
But more than 2,000 Americans have died in a war started over a stockpile of unfound weapons. 
That's the subject President Bush, Karl Rove, Lewis Libby and the entire Republican party do not want to address. That's the subject they should be under flre for. 
On Tuesday, Democrat..<> finally decided enough was enough and opted to makll a statement. Even if the move was a stunt, it brought attrmtion back to the core issue. 
A dishonest president took us to war, then he tried to change the subject. 
This editorial .first appeared in the Nov. 4 issue ofthe OSU Daily Barometer. the daily publication at Oregon State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

University focus should emphasize race 
Studnnts and faculty are protesting the decision to close the enginnering depart­ment at Clark Atlanta University in 2008. 

CAU stands for a community. There is only a small percP.ntagc of universities 
that concentrate on  
Afriean-Americans.  Dawn  
This opinion neglects  Scales  
to recognize that pre­ 
serving the diverse cui­turns of the United Statns is a key to the  DailyO'Collegian Oklahoma  
strength of this country.  State  
Jovette Dew, the eoor­dinator of the multicul­ University  
tural engineering pro­ 

gram and adviser for society of black engineers, technologist<> and architects, also agrees . 
..Hetention studies have shown that a group of people with common goals together is so great so they can achieve their goals and be successful in what they are trying to do," Dew said. 

Preserving culture is the key to unity. We at least need to be familiar with our individual heritages and people. 
I'm sure Hosa Parks would have want­ed the enh>ineering department to stay open. 
Now George Wallace, the segregationist mentioned, was wrong in his ways by not allowing two black students to enter the University of Alabama in the '60s, but why is this figure brought up? 
Has CAU stated that no white students can attend its sehoul or any other histori-· cally black college or university for that matter? 
No. 
Americans must realize the true mean­ing of equality and freedom, but that doesn't come from shutting down histori­cally black college and university's or any other culturally diverse institution. 
HBCUs provide an environment where African-American culture and traditions are celebrated rather than practically non-existent like it is here at OSU. 
Minorities get scholarships at HBCUs. That would include white students. 
"No one should have to be reminded how easy it would be for the vast number of universities in this country to use the same tired excuse to call for all-white universities to protect the culture and heritage of 'their people'," was also a comment made. 
Some individuals may construe that as a threat. 
The comparisons used in this piece were not adequately thought out. We have schools based solely on religion and other ethnic groups. Is that wrong too'? 
Brigham Young Univnrsity is for Mormons and American Indians have their tribal colleges. 
Everyone has a right to his or her opin­ion, but that doesn't always make it right. Some may not agree with my opinion and for that, I encourage you to writn your own. After all, isn't that key in accom­plishing diversity in a free sodety? 
This column first appeared in tlw Nov. 4 issue ofthe Daily Collegian, thl~ daily publication at Oklahoma State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Tl-IE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 10 
Monday, November 7, 2005 
SHOW REVIEW 

Blak Images mixes culture and entertainment 


hilarious moment, Katie's RA, after
By BRODERICK HENRY being tipped off by LaFawnduh, finds 
Scene Writer 
Leroy hiding in a wardrobe, keeping in 
line with the fact that Notre Dame stu­
Celebrating the splendor and variety dents do not have closets. of black culture through poetry, singing The RA questions Bruce LeHoy in a and dancing, Notre Dame's Black manner that suggests that the two had Cultural Arts Council !BCAC) staged its a previous relationship. Katie pulls out annual Blak Images variety show in a gun and demands to know how the Washington Hall Saturday. RA and Leroy know each other so well. 
A Notre Dame inspired version of R. The twist to the story reveals that the Kelly's 12-part hip-hopera, "Trapped in two are adopted brother and sister. the Closet." was the Towards the end of the driving force of the pro-series of skits, the HA finds a gram. Between the vari­used Trojanz condom, which
A Notre Dame­
ous acts, actors Joyce received one of the biggest Handall and Andrew inspired version of audience reactions. Finally, Hight staged adapted LaFawnduh reveals she
R. Kelly's 1 2-part
scenes of the much­planted the contraceptive
hip-hop era, 
talked about saga in because she is in love with which a wife finds out ''Trapped in a Katie. her husband is sleeping Confusing? Yes. Amusing?
Closet," was the 
with a male churchgoer. Quite so.
driving force ofthe
Dubbed as "Trapped Ultimately, the scenes cap­in the Dorm Hoom," the program. tured all the drama and two main characters, emotion of Kelly's produc-Katie and Bruce Leroy, tion with Deanna Colvin try to spend an intimate evening doing a commendable job as both nar­together watching a movie. However, rator and Kelly stand-in. The scenes LaFawnduh, Katie's roommate, inter­also kept the packed house at bay rupts the two and tries to make the between set changes. It also covered moves on Leroy. After successfully get­the fact that there was no emcee. ting rid of LaFawnduh, Katie and Leroy Harmonia, a group consisting of 12 fall asleep and break parietals. In a white females, delivered the evening's first performance. The singing group judging by the audience's reaction. serenaded the audience with their a The second half of the show assumed cappela rendition of Annie Lennox's a much more serious tone as BCAC "Walking on Broken Glass." As the took the opportunity to honor the group's name suggests, the harmonies recently deceased Hosa Parks. Many were beautiful, but the rendition audience members in attendance may seemed to lose the soulfulness of not have known the entire story sur­Lennox's version. rounding Parks heroic stand, and, thus, 

Senior Price Lowe presented a touch­the reading served as education and ing piece entitled "Powerful inspiration. Beyond Measure." The Two poets, Casey reading was an excerpt The second halfof Stanton and Kellie from Nelson Mandela's the show assumed Middleton, presented 1994 Inaugural Speech, poems that questioned
a much more

which encouraged listeners today's culture. They to recognize their intrinsic serious tone as the invited the audience to value as human beings. · BCAC took the "stand for something" 
Troop ND, an all-girl and at the same time
opportunity to 
dance troupe, presented a recognize the importance set called "Take it to the honor the recently of the moment. Floor." The hip-hop deceased Rosa The final performers inspired set was a far cry were the First Class
Parks.

from what the audience Ladies Step Team. saw a year ago from the Always the showstopper, group. They seemed to be more precise the group did not disappoint. They in their movements, but that could received a standing ovation for their have been because they were limited to set. three minutes for their set. Overall, Blak Images presented a mix 
The surprise of the evening may have of entertainment and more serious been the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Irish issues, using the "Trapped in a Closet" Dance Team. As the last act of the first to drive the show forward. half of the show they tapped to Trick Daddy's "Sugar." The dance was clearly Contact Broderick Henry at a melding of cultures that worked well, bhenry1 @nd.edu 






NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, November 7, 2005 BSERVER Notre Dame 41, Tennessee 21 
Pulling no punches 
Safety Tom Zbikowski's pair ofscores push Irish past Volunteers, 41-21 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
After falling behind 21-3 to the Irish in the second quarter Saturday, Tennessee battled hack to tie the score at 21, put­ling Notre Dame's No. H ranking and ehanees at a BCS bowl berth on tlw line. But on third­aml-10 from the Irish 25-yard line with less than a minute remaining in tlw third quarter, Notre Dame receiver Jeff Samardzija took quarterbaek Brady Quinn's pass 73 yards to tlw Volunteer 2-yard line, nldaiming control of the game and thwarting the unranknd Voluntnnrs' upset bid. 
"All the momentum swung back our way on that one play," Notrn Damn head eoaeh Charlie Weis said. 
C)uinn hooked up with Samardzija again three plays later for a 4-yard touehdown to put the Irish up 2H-21. With the drive. Notre Dame regained eontrol of the contest and defeated Tennessee 42-21 Saturday in a game highlighted by a pair of Tom Zbikowski touchdown returns. 
The vietory moves the Irish to 6-2 on the season and elevated them to No. 7 in both polls. 
Zbikowski sealed the victory with 3:17 left in the game when he intereepted Tennessee quar­terback Erik Ainge's pass and returned it 33 yards for a touch­down. 
Notre Dame extended its lead to 21-3 with 9:49 left in the first half when Zbikowski fielded a Britton Colquitt punt at the 22­yard line and returned it 78 yards for his first touchdown of the game. 
"Once he gets the ball, he's going to try to make something happen," Irish cornerback Ambrose Wooden said of Zbikowski. "It was just amazing watching him make guys miss." 
Quinn finished the game with 295 yards through the air and thrne touchdowns, completing 20-of-33 passes. Samardzija eaught seven passes for 127 yards and one touchdown in his eighth straight game with a touchdown reception, a Notre Dame record the junior contin­ues to build upon. 
Early in the fourth quarter, following Samardzija's touch­down. Wooden grabbed an intnrception of his own and returned it 41 yards to the Tennessee 39, setting up an eventual 36-yard D.J. Fitzpatrick field goal. 
Weis said he was pleased with the play of his secondary. The Irish allowed Ainge to complete just 13-of-32 passes for 187 yards. 

Notre Dame jumped out to a two-touchdown lead early in the contest. After the Irish defense stopped Tennessee's first drive at the Notre Dame 40, Colquitt pinned Notre Dame back at its own 6-yard line with a 34-yard punt. But Quinn and the Irish marched down the field, going 96 yards in 11 plays. Quinn threw for 101 yards on the drive and hit tight end Anthony Fasano for a 43-yard touchdown to give Notre Dame a 7-0 lead. The score was Fasano's first of the season and the longest reception of his career. 
On the ensuing kickoff, Irish cornerback Mike Richardson stripped the ball from Tennessee kick returner Lucas Taylor and Notre Dame's Leo Ferrine recovered the fumble at the Tennessee 28-yard line. 

It didn't take Quinn long to find the end zone again. On third-and-18 from the 35-yard line, Quinn threw a fade pass to wide receiver Maurice Stovall, who caught the ball high in the air as he fell back into the end zone for a 35-yard touchdown catch that put the Irish up 14-0. 
Weis stressed the advantage of 
capturing the momentum so 
early in the game. 
"To be able to lake that ball 

and go down and score and llwn 
be able to come and gel anothnr 
quick onn -all the sudden it's 
14 [pointsI right oil' the hat and 
they had to play from bnhind all 
day," Weis said. 
Tennessee got on the board in the first quarter with its second drive. 
Freshman tailbad Arian 

Foster took an Ainge handofT 4:~ 
yards down the sidnline bnl'ore 
Irish free safety Chinedurn 
Ndukwn and linnbaekm Maurice 
Crum, Jr. knocked him out ol' 
bounds at the Notre Damn 11­
yard line. The run set up a 25­
yard field goal by Tennessee 
kicker James Wilhoit that cut 
the Notre Dame advantage to 
14-3. 
Tennessee's comeback began in the second quarter when the Irish made a rare mistake in the passing game. 
On first-and-1 0 from the Notre Dame 3H with 6:39 left in the period, Quinn threw a backward pass to Samardzija that the receiver dropped. The loose ball was ruled a fumble and was recovered by Tennessee line­backer Ryan Karl. 
Tennessee took advantage of the good field position. Eight plays later, on third and goal from the 7-yard line, Ainge scrambled out of the pocket and found receiver Bret Smith in the back of the end zone to cut the lead to 21-10 heading into half­time. 
Tennessee's comeback contin­ued in the third quarter, as the Notre Dame offense could not seem to put together any long drives. With 5:06 left in the quarter, Wilhoit converted a 30­yard field goal to bring the score to 21-13. 
After forcing the Irish offense into a three-and-out, Tennessee got the ball back at the Irish 45­yard line. The Volunteers drove down the field behind the strong running of Foster and a 23-yard pass from Ainge to C.J. Fayton that brought Tennessee to the 3­yard line. 
On first and goal, Foster took the handoff and scampered in for a Volunteer touchdown. Ainge hooked up with Smith on the two-point conversion to even the score at 21. 
"They had done a nice job to weather the storm," Weis said. "We obviously came out hot and got on top of them early, and it didn't deter them, didn't distract them. They just stayed in their game plan." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Tom Zbikowski 

The Notre /Jame strong safety scored on a 78-yard punt return and a 33­yard interception return. lie also led the team wilh nine tackles and a sack. 
stat of the game 
4 
Number oftouchdowns scored by Zbikowski in the last three games ­two interception returns and two punt returns. 

play of the game 
Jeff Samardzija's 73-yard reception 
The receiver's late-third quarter catch led to a Notre Dame touchdown, put­ting the Irish ahead for good and keeping the Tennessee comeback attempt at bay. 
quote of the game 
"I'd like to congratulate Coach Weis and Notre Dame ... they've made a lot ofimprovement in a year. " 
Phillip Fulmer Tennessee coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 7, 2005 
report card 

CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer 
Notre Dame defensive captain and linebacker Brandon Hoyte (39) and offensive captain and quarterback Brady Quinn lead the Irish out of the tunnel before Saturday's 41-21 win over Tennessee Saturday. Quinn threw for 295 yards and three touchdowns while Hoyte tallied five tackles and broke up one pass. 

Confidence creating victories 
A­C+ A­

8+ A 

8 
both came up with interceptions. 
+Ainge completed 13-of-32 passes for 
3.40 

just 5.8 yards per throw. Richardson  
led the team with nine tackles.  
A  special teams: Zbikowski's 78-yard punt return and Leo Perrine's fumble recovery were huge. D.J. Fitzpatrick  
was consistent with two field goals.  
coaching: Weis had the Irish ready to go  
8+  as they jumped out to a 21-3lead. His game plan worked against a tough Volunteer defense as he won his second  
game ever at Notre Dame Stadium.  
overall: Notre Dame shouldn't have  

let Tennessee climb back into the game like it did, but the Irish deseJVe credit for putting the Vols away in the fourth quarter. 
adding up the nuinbers 
Touchdown returns by Tom Zbikowski in the 
4 

past three games. He is the first Irish defensive player to accomplish that feat. 
4 8 
Yards Notre Dame ran for against Tennessee. It was the second-lowest total this season, trailing only the 44 yards tallied in a49-23 win over BYU Oct. 22. 
Touchdown caught by Irish tight end Anthony Fasano in 2005. The score 
1
came on a 43-yard first quarter pass. 

2 3 Touchdown passes thrown this season by Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn, aschool record. 
Ninety-yard drives Notre Dame has had this year. 
3 

The Irish marched 94 yards for the opening score against the Volunteers. 
8 Consecutive games in which Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija has caught a touchdown pass. He had a4-yard scoring reception Saturday. 
Notre Dame touchdowns in the first quarter 
2 

Saturday, the first time the Irish have scored twice in the opening period this season. 
Combined punt, kickoff and interception return yards tallied by the Irish during
272 

Saturday's win over the Volunteers. 
quarterbacks: Quinn did what was needed for Notre Dame to win against Tennessee -play it safe. He hit open receivers for three touchdowns and committed no turnovers. 
running backs: Walker ran well when 
needed, but didn't break any long runs 
or score a touchdown. He averaged 4.1 yards per carry while Thomas and Schwapp helped wear down the Vols. 
receivers: Fasano scored his first TD of the season and Stovall's first-quarter scoring catch made the ESPN highlight reel. Samardzija's 73-yard reception kept the Volunteers from coming back. 
offensive line: The Irish managed only 48 rushing yards against Tennessee's stout defensive line. Quinn was sacked three times, but generally had enough time to throw. 
defensive line: Ainge never really got into a rhythm thanks to six hurries by Abiamiri and Landri. The defensive line held the Vols to 187 yards rushing and just 2.8 yards per carry. 
linebackers: Mays had 2.5 tackles for loss 
and one sack while Crum had three tackles for a loss and broke up a pass. 
Hoyte played solidly once again, racking 
up five total tackles. 

defensive backs: Zbikowski and Wooden 
The Irish were in trouble. A tal­ented Tennessee squad had shot back from a 21-3 deficit and tied the game with 18 straight points. 
It appeared the Volunteers' deci­sion to demote 
Randy Sanders from his role as offensive coordi­nator was the right one. 
It appeared Tennessee quar­terback Erik Ainge had final­

ly found his  Mike Gilloon  
groove after hit­ 
ting wide  
receiver Bret Smith for a two­ Sports Editor  
point conversion  

to knot the contest at 21. It appeared the Volunteers were on the verge of a season-salvaging win. 
It looked like this was the time for Notre Dame to collapse, to choke, to 
do its best imitation of Greg Norman in The Masters. 
But this isn't the old Notre Dame. 
The old Irish team, or at least those of the past several years, would have been as useful in the climactic fourth quarter as a hot dog bun in the soaking rain that fell on Notre open and the customary 38-point beating would commence. They were the teams that would let Pittsburgh and Boston College hang around, only to hand the game away at the end. They were the teams that didn't believe they were any 

good. But these aren't the old Irish. Just ask Jeff Samardzija. 
The Notre Dame receiver snatched up a short Brady Quinn pass on third-and-10 from the Irish 25-yard line, then raced down the sidelines for a 73­
. yard gain. A few plays later, Samardzija scored on another 
short strike from Quinn to set the Notre Dame single-season record with 12 touchdown receptions and remind everyone what has the Irish 
Talent has not been the problem at Notre Dame ... The issue was that players didn ,t understand what they were capable of 
Dame Stadium Saturday. The old Irish would have let it get out of hand. 
They were the teams that could keep up with USC for a quarter or two, but then the floodgates would 

lt,s not just that Samardzija has rubber cement in his fingertips or that safety Tom Zbikowski has a highly-sensitive nose for the end zone. 
on the cusp of a BCS bowl. 
It's not just that Samardzija has rubber cement in his finger­tips or that safety Tom Zbikowski has a high­ly-sensitive nose for the end zone. 
It's that these play­ers and the rest of the Irish know they're good. 

Talent has not been the problem at Notre Dame for the past several seasons. The issue was that players didn't understand what they were capable of. 
Charlie Weis has brought a lot to Notre Dame -a more efficient offensive playbook,-a fiery special teams coach in Brian Polian and even a fresh version of the green jersey. 
But nothing Weis has brought to the Irish program has been as 
important as his confi­dence (or cockiness, depending on whether or not you're from New Jersey). 
It's an attitude that has rubbed off on Notre Dame. 
He has the squad believing it's better than anyone else. 
He has the Irish thinking there are no excuses for losing ­especially in Notre 

Dame Stadium. 
He has them thinking that they are supposed to make a play when the game is on the line. Confidence is not just encouraged by Weis and the rest of the coaching staff; it's ­expected. 
The Irish found themselves in a rut on Saturday. But they didn't drop their heads and wait for the game to end and frustration to begin. 
Instead, they looked to their coach, snapped up their chin straps, clenched down on their mouth guards and created a win. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofMike Gilloon and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 

'Zibby' becoming scoring threat 
Notre Dame safety has scored on four returns for TDs in previous three Irish contests 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Editor 
Tom Zbikowski stood at the front of the interview room, donning a dapper suit that didn't quite lit with his unshaven, nicked-up l~tee. 
"Do you ever get tired?" a reporter asked. "''m going to say no," Zbikowski said. "But yeah." 
The Irish strong safety then grinned widely, the same smile he showed walk­ing oil' the lield Saturday as the student section roared and chanted 'Zibby, Zibby' in appredation of his two touehdowns in tlw 41-21 Notre Dame win over Tmmossoo -one a :B-yard interenption return and the other a 78-yard punt rnturn. 
Arter all that, it was probably OK to admit to a little fatigue. 
Tlw former high school quarterback from Arlington Heights, lll. has scored four touehdowns in the Jast three games -two Saturday against the Volunteers, a (,0-yard punt rnturn in Notre Dame's 34­31 loss to No. 1 Southern California on Oct. 15 and an 8:~-yard interception 
KELLEY!The Observer 

mturn during a 49-23 Notre Dame vietory Notre Dame safety Tom Zbikowski sprints up the field on his 33-yard interception over BYU Oct. 22. return for a touchdown In the fourth quarter of a 41.-21. Irish win over Tennessee. lie ranks No. 5 on the team in touch­
downs seored, and lw's yet to line up on tlw oll'tmsive side of the ball -a statistic out of [ZbikowksiJ." "We're trying to set a mark that when his lwad coaeh appreciates. However, not all of Zbikowski's produc­teams come into play at Notre Dame 
"lie lifted my spirits a little bit," Irish tion has come from touchdown returns. Stadium they're going to come out with a coach Charlie Weis said. "I think that any His first career sack carne Saturday as loss and we're going to come out with a time you're not an oll'ensive player and well when he tracked down Tennessee win," he said. you're responsible for two touchdowns, I quartflrback Erik Ainge for a 10-yard loss These results are a source of pride for think that's a major factor." in the second quarter. Zbikowski and the Irish defense. As its 
Zbikowski is establishing himself as one He also tied Irish cornerback Mike highest-scoring playmaker, Zbikowski can of thn biggest factors on spedal teams in Hichardson for the team lead on the day take credit for much of the 6-2 Irish start. recent Notrn Dame history. with nine tackles. "It's hard to put into words," he said. 
lie is the first Irish player to have multi­Zbikowski's scores have also come at "Everything is so much easier when pin punt returns for a touchdown in one key moments, especially against USC and you're winning. season since Allen Hossum took three Tennessee. His second-quarter punt Getting your elasswork done, going to punts baek for scores in 1996. return against the Trojans gave Notre practice, watching film, seeing the fans ... 
"The mom he's out there the morn you Dame a 21-14 advantage at halftime. just being on campus every day. It makes want him out there," Weis said. "Because Saturday's interception return with 3:17 everything so much easier." every time he touches the ball there's a remaining in the game put the Irish good chance something good is going to ahead by 20 and foiled Tennessee's Contact Mike Gilloon at happen. We're getting a lot of production attempt at a comeback. mgilloon@nd.edu 
Samardzija snaps Mayes' school mark 
Monday, November 7, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
•

scoring suininary 
1st 2nd :Jrd 4th Total Tennessee 3 7 11 0 21 Notre Dame 14 7 0 20 41 
First quarter Notre Dame 7, Tennessee 0 Anthony Fasano 43-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 6:51 remaining (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick). Drive: 11 plays, 94 yards, 4:23 elapsed Notre Dame 14, Ttmnnssen 0 Maurice Stovall 35-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 5:51 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick). Drive: 3 plays, 27 yards, 0:54 elapsed Notrn Dame 14, Tennessen :~ James Wilhoil25-yard field goal with 3:46 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 67 yards, 2:05 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 21, Tnnnessee :l Tom Zbikowski 78-yard punt return with 9:49 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick). 
Notre Dame 21, Tennessee I 0 Brei Smith 7-yard pass from Erik Ainge with 
3:19 remaining (Wilhoit kick). Drive: 8 plays, 37 yards, 3:20 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 21, Tennessee 13 Wilhoit30-yard field goal with 5:06 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 46 yards, 2:24 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Tennessee 21 Arian Foster 3-yard run with 1:49 remaining (Ainge pass). 
Drive: 6 plays, 55 yards, 1:37 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 28, Tennessee 21 Jeff Samardzija 4-yard reception from Brady -­Quinn with 13:57 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick). Drive: 6 plays, 75 yards, 2:52 elapsed Notre Dame 31, Tennessee 21 Fitzpatrick 36-yard field goal with 7:47 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 17 yards, 3:27 elapsed Notre Dame 34, Tennessee 21 Fitzpatrick 28-yard field goal with 4:01 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 10 yards, 2:49 elapsed Notre Dame 41, Tennessee 21 Zbikowski 33-yard interception return (Fitzpatrick kick). 

statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 

I 

~ :rr 
34-48 rushes-yards 39-109 20-33-0 comp-att-int. 13-32-2 5-34.6 punts-yards 8-43.2 2-1 fumbles-lost 2-1 8-78 penalties-yards 9-37 
14 18
lirst downs 
passing 

Quinn 20-33-0 Ainge 13-32-2 
rushing 

Walker 15-62 Foster 28-125 Thomas, T. 8-15 Ainge 11-(-16) 
recniving 

Samardzija  7-127  Meachem  3-46  
Fasano  4-78  Fayton  2-44  
Walker  4-34  Swain  2-41  

tackling-

Richardson 9 Gaither 8 Zbikowski 9 Simon 8 
Receiver scores 12th touchdown of2005, ranks third in nation 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
.Jeff Samardzija's third­quarter touchdown was his 12th on the season. breaking thn Notre Dame record for receiving scorns in one year. The rec:ord was previously hnld by Derrick Mayes, who had 11 touchdown catches in 1994. 
Samardzija also extended his own school record for consecutive games with a touchdown reception. 
Thn junior has scored at least once in each of the first eight gamns of the season. 
Samardzija's 12 touchdown catdws place him in a tie for third plaen in the nation. USC's Dwayrw .Jarrett leads tlw country with 14 on the snasor1. 
Wnis attributed much of Samardzija's success to the rneoivor's precise route run­ning and 11xenllnnt hands. 
"l~vnry pro scout that comes in lwrn is drooling ovnr him a couple years from now say­ing, 'God, this guy catches everything."' Weis said. "And he does." 
Clearing a path 
The 35-yard first quarter touchdown reception by Mauricfl Stovall was his sixth of the season and the 13th of his career. The senior now has the fifth-most career touchdown receptions in school history. Mayes holds the record, with 22 from 1992-95. 
Stovall only recorded one catch in the game after his touchdown, but the receiver certainly made his presence felt. Stovall threw key blocks on both Anthony Fasano's and Samardzija's touchdown receptions, as well as on Samardzija's 73-yard catch late in the third quarter. 
Stovall appreciates how important blocking is to the wideout position. 
"A big block is just as big as a catch," the senior said. 
Samardzija has been extremely impressed with Stovall's blocking all year. 
".:v'auri~:e is a great hloek­nr, he satd. "From what I've seen around the nation he is easily 
one of the top blockers in the country. It's something that gets overlooked." 
Rough and tough 
Tennessee impressed the Irish with its hard-hitting and physical play. The massive Volunteer defensive line weighs an average 287 lbs. per person, whereas the Notre Dame front four weighs only 269 lbs. per person. 
"Coach Weis warned us it was going to be a boxing match, it was going to be a brawl, a bar fight," Stovall said. "When you're playing a team that really doesn't have a great record ... they really don't have anything to lose." 
Anthony Fasano, Darius Walker and Trevor Laws all suffered injuries during the game for Notre Dame. None of the injuries are thought to be serious and all three of the players returned to the game. 
Ice-cold bath 
Weis rneeivnd a Gatorade bath after thn victory from dnfnnsivn lirwmen Justin Brown and Tnwor Laws. lie wasn't too thrilled in the postgame press conference, whnn he was still not sure who gave him the shower. 

''I'm going to get the video tape and find out who did that," Weis said. ''I'm not big on that but that's all right. I'll take one for the team." 
Running up the score 
Notre Dame scored at least 31 points for the sixth straight game Saturday and the seventh time on the sea­son. The only game in which the Irish have not reached that mark in 2005 was the 17-10 victory at Michigan on Sept. 10. Notre Dame reached 31 points just live times in the previous two seasons. 
Coin toss 
Tennessee won the toss and elected to receive. Notre Dame defended the south end zone. 
Captains 
Brady Quinn, Brandon lloyte and ILJ. Fitzpatrick wore Notre Dame's three cap­tains for the game. Quinn and lloyte are the offensive and defensive captains for the season, while the special teams captain is s11leeted by tho coaches eaeh week. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 7, 2005 
.. 

Tennessee's offensive realignment didn't work Saturday. Even ifthe 
Volunteers had seen more success from splitting the offensive coordinator duties among the coaching staff after Randy Sanders resigned Oct. 31, Tom Zbikowski probably would have stopped it eventually. The Irish strong safety scored two touchdowns-one on a 78-yard punt return and the other on a 33-yard interception return-as Tennessee fell behind early, came back, then fell behind again in a 41-21loss to Notre Dame. In what had appeared in the preseason to be the second-toughest game on the Irish schedule, the contest against the Volunteers ended up as a showcase for the talents of Zbikowski and Notre Dame's JeffSamardzija. The lanky receiver caught his 12th touchdown of the season-breaking Derrick Mayes' 11-year-old school record. His score was one of three thrown by quarterback Brady Quinn on the day. Anthony Fasano caught his first touchdown of the season and Maurice Stovall made a leaping, 35-yard grab in the end zone as Notre Dame made one more step toward the BCS. 



Top left, Irish safety Tom Zbikowski sacks Volunteers quarterback Erik Ainge in the second quarter. Top right, quarterback Brady Quinn scans the field. Middle right, receiver Jeff Samardzija raises his helmet to the student body. Bottom right, linebacker Maurice Crum focuses on the Vols. Bottom left, cornerback Ambrose Wooden returns a fourt:h-quarter interception. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, November 7, 2005 
page 11 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Appetite for Destruction plays Club Fever 
By MATTHEW SMEDBERG 
Sct·m· <:ririe 
Thn hypll was raging on Friday. No. not about thn football gamn -llw hot tkknl was tlw studnnt band nvnryonn is talking about. EvPryorw, that is, who's into dassk rock. 
AppPlitn for llnstnu:tion is four Notrn l>anw studnnts with decades of musical nxpPriPrH:P lwtwnnn llwm. Friday's show at Club Fnvnr. hownvnr, rnprnsnnt­Pd a rww IPVPI for tlw band. The stars. it. appnars, worn aligrwd for a grnat show that night. 
Morn than a thousand pairs of Pars packPd Club Fnvm in downtown South B«'rHI on Friday night as Appetite took tlw stag!' and pourHind through a truly monumPntal snt-thn show wasn't ovPr until aflnr two in thn morning-of matPrial from rock's goldPn ynars. 
Appntitn's stock in trado is Guns N' Hos«'s, but thn band was not shy about branching out, including thn Bnatlns, tlw Boss and thn Stones on thn set list. Wlwn Appntitn did branch out to non­(;uns N' Hosns music, thny still tnnded to stick to songs that the band originally eovnrnd. 
"Wn're hasieally singing a cover of a 1:ovnr ... but tho fans dig it," drummer BnlrHlan Collins said. 
Collins and knyboardisVguitarist Matt Marnocha arn the heart or the group. Tho two havn been playing tognther basically forcvnr -"sinco 7th grade" Collins said. Thny dneided to form Appntite for Destruction after the brnakup of tlwir last project, The Flux. dun to tlw graduation of half tho band. 
Noither Marnoc:ha nor Collins, hownv­Pr. has thn voicn to covor Axl, so thny tunwd to junior Will MeAulifTn to pro­vido vocals. llis raspy baritone shifts into high gnar once the music starts, belting out lyrics in an unapologetic shriek. It's not a falsntto because it's not nearly prntty nnough. It's not quito a scream and not quitn a hundred-odd­decibel whine. What it does dosely approximaln is tho anguished crins nmanating from Chris Campbell's bass. 
The foursome mixed perennial crowd favorites like "You Could Be Minn." "Wnlconw to the .Jungle," "Cold Novcmbnr Hain" and tho obligatory and always-satisfying "Paradise City" with offerings for the dinhards with GNH's whole discography filling their iPods. These hard-hitting songs inelud­nd "It's So Easy" and "Don't Cry" and ballads like "I Need You" or "My Midwlln." Most of tlw soflnr material, however. was furnishnd by the Beatles, especially Appetite's versions of "Lonely lloarts Club." 
"If' you don't know this song, just leave. Lnave Amnrica," McAuliffe said. 
On that ultimate sixties ballad, "I ley .Jude," though, he couldn't quito sum­mon a lyrical sound or smooth the rasp. Axl might have slapped him -though the question remains whether it would be on the back or upside the head. 
Old and young, the crowd matched thn band in intensity. The floor was packed, the galleries impassable -an achievement doubly notable for the fact that Club Fever is a 21-and-up venue. 
"As a band, we were all extremely happy," said Collins, who added the crowd "definitely" carried the band for­ward with its energy. 
ll surely didn't hurt that White Sox star Jermaine Dye was in attendance Friday night, coming ofT his MVP per­formancn in the World Series. Dye, whose girlfriend attended high school 


with Collins and Marnocha, met the band after the show and "had some very nice things to say about the show. lie had a really great time," Collins said. 
Despite some technical mishaps throughout the show, including consis­tent feedback on several speakers, and McAuliffe's less-than-commanding visu­al presence (his most spontaneous moment came when a female fan who'd partaken a bit too heavily jumped onstage to kiss him -he dedicated the next song to her) the performance rep­resents a resounding success for Appetite for Destruction. 
Thn next step for the band seems natural for a cover band. 
"Original material," Collins said. "The thought was to use the Guns N' Hoses thing as a vehicle." 
The band hopes to continuo to play shows as often as possible, incorporat­ing its own songs as they are written and perfected. To answer qunstions about whether the band would slay together for the end of the year Collins said, "We'll sec what happnns." 
Fans of Appeliln for Destruction will certainly await the band's next perform­ance, whether it includes covers, nnw material or something nntirnly unex­pected. 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at smedberg.I @nd.edu 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Imani Winds brings Afro-Cuban flair to concert 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assisraru Scrnr Ediror 
Though llw lmani Winds wnre tho marqunn gunst pnrformnrs on tho set­list. thn Nolrn Damn Symphony Orelwslra dnmonslralcd its own eon­sidnrabln musieality ovnr the course of a (JO-minuw concert. 
Thn pnrf'ormancn, whil:h took place on Friday in till' LPighton Conenrt flail in thP I>I'AC. was highlighted by thn lrnani Winds. who wnre wnll-roceivPd by both tlw audinnrn and the Symphony (lrchnstra musil:ians. 
"Tiw lmani Winds wnro a wonderful group to pPrf'orm with," said Stove Nuarws, a junior who has played both viola and pnrcussion with the Notre l>a1111' Sympho11y Orchnstra the past thrnn years. "Tiwir musicianship was pr·ptty nvidPnl in both thn eoncHrt and tlwir rnlwarsals with us." 
Tl11• Winds ap1warnd on the ccnl!~r­pincP of' thn show, tlw Valnrin Colnman­p<'nnPd "Afro-Cuban Concerto for Woodwind ()uartnt.." Tlw composition had a loosn, frnP-f'lowing styln that was matchnd -nr tlwr than overshadowed hy -t.lw aceom panying orclwstra. 
" T h n m u s i 1: co Ill p o s n d by V a I e r i o Colnman was a stylo that was now to many of us in thn ordwslra. It was a good dtallnngn for us as musicians," said Nuanns. 
Whiln a studnnt-musieian. orchestra might initially scnm unsuitnd to tho 
hemiola-l'illed polyrhythmic Afro­Cuban music of the lmani Winds, the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra showed ofT its adroit ability to handle a wide range of musical styles through­out the concert. 
They opennd with Dvorak's "Slavonic Dances" before shifting gears to (;norge Gershwin's "Cuban Overture." Owing far more to the composer's pnn­ehant for large-seale orchnstral pieens than his lightly wovnn songbook com­positions, "Cuban Overture" sprawlnd through a rhythmieally challenging 10­minutes, which lead to the lmani Winds' conemto. "Afro-Cuban Concerto for Woodwind Quartnl" eame in thrne distinct movnmonts: Afro, Vocalise and Dancn. Tho Winds played through sev­eral solo and soli eadnnzas that high­lighted their nrwrgei.k musicality. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra finislwd out tho eoncnrt by playing Schubert's "Linfinishnd Symphony" and Weber's "Oboran Overturn." Following their pnrform­anen, tho Orchestra received a stand­ing-ovation from thn I tall's audinnee. 
The Imani Winds rnhearsed with the Orchnst.ra, providing education on how to improve t.hnir musicianship. Bather than take on the role of demanding professionals, the lmani Winds provnd to be helpful and insight­ful teachers. 
"They showed thnir love of educating students by taking time to lwlp us dnvelop our sound and technique for f'ut.ure pnrformancns. 


"This c:on<:l1l"l. allownd symphony to show how much we hav«' devPiopPd over thn last fnw ynars. It was a good step in hnlping us prepare to play at Carnegin II all." 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
their demanding musie," said Nuanes. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orclwstra will continue to rchearsP and preparo for upcoming c:onc:erts, induding a pcrformancn at New York City's Carnegie llall with Tho Chinflains on St. Patrick's Day. Nuanes said he apprceiated how the Orchestra was received and looks forward to 
-----------------------. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 7, 2005 
"I lined up on the goal line, threw a long pass and receiver because I didn't want anyone Katie Riemersma caught it in the 
Chaos 
behind me," she said. "I just read end zone. the quarterback's eyes and, luck­The Whirlwinds were able to
continued from page 20 
ily, I caught it." stop the one-point conversion into the Badin red zone, and cap­While it was Van Hoegarden's play. However, they were unable italized on the opportunity with a interception that ended the to answer the touchdown, and at 5-yard touchdown pass right game, it was the effort of the halftime, the Phoxes led the before the end of the first half. entire PW defense that gave the game 6-0. 
Other than those outbursts, Weasels the victory. In the beginning of the second both offenses were subdued by McGlinn threatened multiple half, Welsh moved the ball down stout defense and bitterly cold times near the end of the game, the field with some spectacular weather. but PW rose to the occasion each passes by quarterback Melissa 
"We really had trouble throw­time. First, McGlinn moved the Sands. They were able to move ing the ball with the cold weath­ball to the PW 11, but the Weasel the ball to the 15-yard line, until er," Badin coach Chris Paley said. defense forced four straight a penalty moved them up to the 
Indeed, Badin quarterback incompletions. Then, with less 10-yard line. Sands then con­Katie Rose Hackney went just than a minute left in the game, nected with Kelly Bushelle to tie 1 0-of-27 passing for 91 yards, PW intercepted McGlinn quarter­the game. However, the Phoxes with most of her completions back Becky Brown in the end also prevented Welsh from scor­coming on short screen passes. zone, sending the game into ing the extra point as the score Other than her big plays, Lisa overtime. knotted at 6-6. Ruffer wasn't much better. She "Our defense always seems to Yet the Phoxes were able to completed just 8-of-26 passes for rise to the occasion, and they pull out one more touchdown 122 yards and, most importantly, really gave our team a spark with only six minutes left in the two touchdowns. today," Van Hoegarden said. game. Again Riemersma made 
Cavanaugh's defense carried McGlinn captain Bridget the catch in the end zone, and the day again, shutting down any Meacham, however, attributed again Welsh was able to prevent type of vertical passing game the Shamrock's inability to score the point after. And although it Badin could hope for. Badin had to a different reason. came close, Welsh ran out of success with wide receiver "J. think it was a mental thing," time to answer, throwing an at Walsh next week." morale," Lewis co-captain Julia screens early in the game, but she said. "We hadn't scored in interception in its final drive, Burke said. "And though this is turned away from that strategy two games, and I think we just which ended the game. Walsh 7, Lewis 0 really secondary, I do wish we and didn't return to it until it was psyched ourselves out." "Our playing was sloppy; On Walsh's first drive of the would have had her height for too late. With its win, PW advances to though we're happy about the second half in its quarterfinal the Hail Mary." 
Cavanaugh provided some the second round for the first win, we realize this was not our against Lewis, quarterback Mary The first half was much like effective pressure and recorded time in the past few years, where best game," Pangborn captain Claire Sullivan hit wideout Marie the second. After both teams' two sacks in the game. and they will be underdogs Katie Murray said. "Next week Brenner for the Wild Women's opening drives were halted near 
"That's why [Cavanaugh is] the against No. 1 seed Cavanaugh. for Walsh, we need to be playing only touchdown. the goal line, neither team No. 1 seed," Paley said. Van Hoegarden, however, likes much better than today." That was all the scoring Walsh gained as much as a frrst down 
Cavanaugh moves on to the her team's position. Welsh Family players were dis­would need as its defense held for the rest of the half. next round of the playoffs as its "We're going to play our game, appointed about their loss, espe­Lewis scoreless for a 7-0 shutout "It was how we expected it to defense recorded yet another which is defense," she said. cially their seniors and captain victory. be out there, intense," Walsh co­shutout. Badin's season ends "We're going to be heavy under­Sarah Skrabacz. "We weren't ever worried," co captain Mary Ellen Botta said. with a 1-5-1 record. dogs, but we like flying under the "It is hard for me to think of captain Patty Rose said. "We While Lewis was disappointed 
They have an opportunity to radar." things to say right now, because I have faith in our defense." in the outcome, it couldn't find improve along with their young am sad that the season is over Judging by the game's statis­much fault with its performance. quarterback Katie Rose Hackney, Pangborn 14, Welsh Family 0 and that it was my last game," tics, Walsh's conviction is war­"We really did have a pretty but were outgunned against an Welsh Family and Pangborn she said. ranted. On eight drives, Lewis good defensive performance," experienced, athletic Cavanaugh met for the second time on But as the score showed, Welsh managed only five first downs, co-captain Kara Bailey said. squad. Sunday, as their first matchup of put up a much tougher fight in and Chicks quarterback Elias Joslyn Moya, another Lewis cap­
the season ended in a 14-0 this second meeting. Valdez completed only seven of tain, summarized the Chicks' PW 6, McGlinn 0 Pangborn victory over the "This time around with Welsh 28 passes, was intercepted once season. 
It took overtime, but Cara Whirlwinds. Pangborn came with Family, we definitely had more and was continuously harassed "While it ended too soon, we Davies' 16-yard touchdown pass confidence from its win, while trouble than our regular-season and hurried all game. enjoyed it right down to the last to Maureen Spring in the first Welsh brought determination to game," Murray said. "I think our Lewis' last attempt to score minute," she said. overtime period finally broke the continue its season into the semi­play was different more than was a failed Hail Mary that Walsh, the 2004 women's scoreless streak between finals. But the Whirlwinds came theirs, we dropped some balls we ended the game. That, along interhall champions, is now one McGlinn and Pasquerilla West, up short in a 12-6 loss, while the shouldn't have and missed some with Walsh's winning drive, pro­step closer to defending its title. giving the Weasels a 6-0 victory. Phoxes advanced to the next tackles we shouldn't have." vided the second half's only On to the semifinals, the Wild Counting their matchup in the round of the playoffs. Kelly Bushelle, although sad, excitement. Women will face Pangborn in the regular season, Spring's touch­The Phoxes were able to score was a little more optimistic about It was also a half marred by a next round. down was the frrst points scored in the first half, as Brynn Welsh's season. violent head-on collision between Botta is confident, however, in over eight quarters between Johnson effectively ran the ball "We all put our hearts into a Walsh defensive back and that the semifinals are not the the two teams. up the field with shovel passes every game," she said. "We had a Lewis receiver Katy Clune. only thing her team is awaiting. 
As PW got the ball first in over­from the quarterback. lot of fun this season and will Clune lay on the field for sever­"We're also looking very for­time, it still had to stop the Both teams threatened the end miss the seniors. Although we al agonizing minutes and emer­ward to the Stadium," she said. Shamrock offense one last time. zone a couple times during the didn't get as far as we had gency personnel were called to 
It looked like McGlinn might tie first half, Welsh with more of a hoped, we will be ready next the scene. To applause from both 
the game as it moved the ball to passing offense, while Pangborn year." sides, Clune was helped off the Contact James Fegan, Greg the four-yard line of PW, but an executed a rushing attack. Murray expressed Pangborn's field, and fortunately, nothing Arbogast, Catherine Kane and interception by Heather Van However, the defenses were able excitement about the team's win. seemed to indicate the injury was Drew Fontanarosa at 
Hoegarden -PW's third of the to stop anything that came close. "I think the general feeling on severe. jfegan@nd.edu, 
game -sealed the deal, sending Welsh's Katie Rehberger had an the team is confidence going into "I would call [Clune] our 'star' garbogas@nd.edu, 
the Weasels through to the sec­interception, but nothing was the semis," she said. "We're real­receiver, but [her injury] wasn't ckane2@nd.edu and ond round of the playoffs. fruitful until Pangborn finally ly excited and cannot wait to get something we could let hurt our afontana@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early and Save Lowest Prices Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY 11!7 Highest Commission Best Travel Perks www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426-771 0 
1-bedroom apt 1-mile from ND 
in quiet historic neighborhood, $575/month. Call 283-0325 
WANTED 
Sr. seeks 3 housemates ASAP 287-4961. 

FoR RENT 
YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart­ments available for 06-07 school year. Call today 235-7234. 
Rooms in private home for rent dur­ing ND football weekends or other ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658. 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
Area Houses and Apartments for rent. Log on to MichianaRentals.com Caii574-993-RENT (7368). 
House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Gar. Clay Area. $700/mo. 574-210-8308. 
KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM­PUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UPTO 10 BEDROOMS. CALL 315-5032 ASK FOR KRAMER. 
KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS 1 SINGLE FAMILY HOME AVAIL­ABLE. 140 N.SHORE BLVD. 3 BEDROOMS,1.5 BATHS. GREAT FOR PROFESSORS,STAFF, OR GRAD STUDENTS. CALL 315­5032, ASK FOR KRAMER. 
Beachwalk resort-Rent this 3 bed­room 2.5 bath home in Beachwalk Resort Community located in Michigan City, IN. Great for football weekends! Close to shopping and riverboat gambling $700/weekend. Weekly rates also available. Email caldanaro@yahoo.com 
Rent house walk to NO 4 students 309-3105 GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS 06/07 & 07/08 andersonNDrentals.com 

574-233-9947 

3-6 bdrm homes for 06/07. Also avail.now. 574-329-0308. 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next semester or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc.,new furnace and central air, new kitchen includ­ing new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call289-4071. 
RENTAL FOR 2ND SEMESTER beautiful newly constructed 1 or 2 bedroom Dublin Village Townhouse across from SMC. 570-220-9296. 
Furnished 1 bedroom condo (Ivy Residential/Jamison) 11/21/05­May,2006. Call Mary Anne Benedict ­607-723-7363 or 607-770-0944. 
TICKETS 
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 

FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB­SITE FOR$$: www. victorytickets.com 
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT­BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK-Early Booking Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks ­$50 Deposit-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals. MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreak­travel.com 1-800-678-6386 
11!7/03-alii ever wanted and more. Thanks for 2 wonderful years, Joshua! GO IRISH! BEAT NAVY (AGAIN)!! 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 7, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NFL

A.P. Football Top 25 
tl'am mrord points 
1 usc 9-0 1,617 2 Texas 9-0 1,568 3 Miami 7-1 1,452 4 Alabama 9-0 1,450 5 LSU 7-1 1,328 6 Penn State 9-1 1,271 7 NOTRE DAME 6-2 1,201 8 Virginia Tech 8-1 1,147 9 Georgia 7-1 1,097 10 Ohio State 7-2 1.076 11 Oregon 8-1 943 12 Florida 7-2 905 13 Texas Tech 8-1 753 14 UCLA 8-1 693 15 Auburn 7-2 680 16 West Virginia 7-1 617 17 Florida State 7-2 605 18 TCU 9-1 536 19 Wisconsin 8-2 438 20 Fresno Stale 7-1 410 21 Michigan 6-3 372 22 Colorado 7-2 312 23 louisville 6-2 242 24 Georgia Tech 6-2 109 25 Northwestern 6-3 82 
ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team record points 
1 usc 9-0 1,544 2 Texas 9-0 1,494 3 Alabama 9-0 1,398 4 Miami 7-1 1,385 5 LSU 7-1 1,283 6 Penn State 9-1 1,139 1 NOTRE DAME 6-2 1,124 8 Virginia Tech 8-1 1,116 9 Georgia 7-1 1,093 10 Ohio State 1-2 962 11 Oregon 8-1 919 12 Florida 7-2 754 13 Texas Tech 8-1 745 14 UCLA 8-1 744 
Associated Press Brooks Bollinger had 30 becoming the first Charger his
15 West Virginia 7-1 710 
yards to lead the Jets to since Chuck Muncie toes inbounds for tho S­
16 Florida Slate 7-2 667 
N.J. LaDainian the winning score. against Denver on Nov. 29, yard score with 6:44 to
17 Auburn 7-2 619 
Tomlinson and his This was all too much for 1981, to have four touch­play. Tho scoring passes
18 TCU 9-1 491 
Chargers teammates the Chargers, whose four downs in one game. were the first through the
19 Wisconsin 8-2 385 
watched the Jets get one losses all -came in the clos­Heading into the contest, air for the Jets (2-6) since
20 Fresno State 7-1 360 
final ehanee to pull out an ing minutes. But Quentin Tomlinson had the same Week 2 against the
21 Colorado 7-2 302 
improbable victory. Jammer rescued San Diego number of touchdown Dolphins.
22 Michigan 6-3 275 One thought must have when he batted down a passes (three) as Jets Then John Abraham
23 Louisville 6-2 242 24 Georgia Tech 6-2 111 crossed their minds: 'Oh fade pass for Justin quarterbacks. Bollinger sacked Brons and forced a 25 BC 6-3 56 no. Not again.' MeCareins on fourth-and­changed all that with a fumble, whieh Jonathan No matter that goal, preserving a 31-26 furious charge. Vinny Vilma recovered. But the Tomlinson was dazzling, victory Sunday. Testaverde's straight right Jets failed on four with a career-high four "It was nice. So many calf tightened up, so attempts from the 3, and
Men's Cross Country Top 20 
touchdowns and one par­times we've been on tho Bollinger replaced him in their disappointing season 
team points region ticularly impressive move losing end of games like the third quarter, then continued. 1 Wisconsin 476 Gl that left Pro Bowl corner­this. I figured one game threw two touchdown "We needed to make a 2 Arkansas 468 sc back Ty Law frozen in his would have to go our way," passes to make it a game. play," Jamnwr said. "Th1~y 3 Colorado 442 M tracks. Drew Brees fum­Tomlinson said. Laveranues Coles made ran a couple fades on me. I 4 Stanford 432 w bled with 3:06 to go, and a Tomlinson scored on a beautiful play on the sec­figured tlwy wnrn going to 5 NOTRE DAME 414 GL surprisingly effective three runs and one catch, ond one, barely k1~nping try to run anoilwr one." 6 BYU 402 M 7 Georgetown 354 MA 8 UTEP 351 M 9 Arizona 342 w IN BRIEF 10 Texas 338 sc 
11 Alabama 287 s Kim Nstinterviews to become Back injury to kee-p Early morning tornado kills 
12 Kansas 286 MW 
baseball's first female GM Blackhawlis center sidelined horses, damages race track 
13 Portland 273 w 
LOS ANGELES -Kim Ng, a vice CIIICAGO -Blaekhawks center IIENI>EHSON, Ky. -A dnadly tor­
14 Florida 252 s 
president and assistant general man­Tuomo Huutu is expected to miss nado that ripped through tho arna
15 Ohio State 246 Gl 
ager for the Los Angeles Dodgers the throe to 12 weeks because of a back early Sunday hit nllis Park. killing
16 Dartmouth 242 NE 
past four years, became the first can­injury. throe horses and hurting otlwrs,
11 William & Mary 213 SE 
didate to interview for the team's Huutu was in the lineup Tuesday in injuring track workors and dostroy­
18 Minnesota 212 MW 
vacant GM job. Detroit after sitting out six games, ing largo sections of tlw grandstand.
19 Virginia 211 MA 
Team spokesman .Josh Hawiteh but he returned to Chieago after the The twister torn across southwost­
20 Iowa 172 MW 
said Ng was interviewed Saturday. If game to be examined by the ern Indiana and w1~stnrn Kentucky hired to succeed Paul DePodesta, she Blaekhawks' medical staff. just af'ter 1 a.m., killing at toast 21 would become major league base­No structural damage was found in poopln in nearby southern Indiana. ball's first female GM. a series of tests, but Huutu will be wrecking homes and knocking out Before joining the Dodgers, the 36-sidelined for some time. power to thousands. No doaths wnrn 
year-old Ng served as vice president "It's not great news, but it's not bad roported in Kontucky. and assistant general manager for news," general manager Dale Tallon Tho tornado touched down noar 'the New York Yankees from 1998-said Sunday. "Doctors have done all llenderson, thon jumpod tho Ohio 2001. the testing. They've done MHis, CAT Hiver into Indiana, ollkials said.
NBA Ng and Hoy Smith, vice president of scans, X-rays." At Ellis Park, the tornado damagnd Cleveland at Toronto 7:00 p.m., FOX Sports player development, arc handling Huutu needs rest -not surgery. horse barns and sovnral buildings, front-office duties for the Dodgers Tallon said that six games simply said Paul Kuorzi, tnu~k vko prnsidnnt 
around the dial 
New Jersey at Miami 7:30 p.m., NBATV 
until a general manager is hin~d. and weren't enough. and general manager. Threo horsns will represent the team at the GM "lin didn't have as much time lotrl dind and somn workors at tlw track
NHL 

meetings, which begin Tuesday in as he's going to get this time," Tallon sufl'orod minor injurios, Kunrzi said. Pittsburgh at New York 7:00p.m., OLN Palm Springs. said. Three or four othor horses have 
The Dodgers received permission Huutu said his back has improved "pretty substantial" injurins and aro last week to interview former Texas tho past f'ew days because he hasn't being eared for by vntnrinarians. It Hangers GM John Hart. done much. was uncertain if they would survivo. 

page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, November 7, 2005 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish set to travel to Augusta 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
After one of its best three­round scores of the year only netted a lOth-place finish in the Las Vegas Collegiate Shootout, the Notre Dame women's golf team will have a softer field to contend with at the Lady Jaguar Invitational in Augusta, Ga. this week. 
"This field's a little weak," Irish head coach Debby King said. "We're the highest-ranked team here. The next highest­ranked is Augusta State." 
The Irish are ranked No. 35 in golfstat.com's rankings, while the Jaguars are ranked No. 58. The only other teams in the top 100 are No. 84 Western Carolina and No. 85 Richmond. 
and Wyoming fill out the rest of the field. 
Despite the weaker field, King said the Irish are not overlooking the Lady Jaguar, which will be their last event until February. 
"[Augusta State is] playing on 

their home course, which Gebauer also had a strong means we have to keep an eye showing last week, carding a 72 
on them," King said. "We want to sandwich the fall season. We won at the beginning and we want to win at the end." 
The Irish won the Notre Dame Invitational in September to begin their season. 
The Lady Jaguar will only be a 36­hole tournament, played over Monday and 
"This field's a little
Arkansas State, Birmingham weak. We're the Southern, East highest-rankedTennessee State, 
team here."
Elon, Florida International, Jacksonville State, Debby King James Madison 
Irish head coach 
"[Augusta State is] playing on their home course, which means we have to keep an eye on them." 
Debby King Irish head coach 
to lead the team in the second round. 
Nakazaki, who finished second on the team in Las Vegas with a three-round score of 224, leads the Irish with a 74.23 stroke average this season. 
Brophy, a team captain this year, finished third on the team last week with a 226. 

Tuesday. King said she's happy the team will have to play less golf than usual. 
"It's better than 36 holes in one day, this way we don't have to walk 36 holes," King said. 
King will send the lineup out onto the course as she did last week in Las Vegas. Sophomore Jane Lee, junior Noriko Nakasaki, fresh­man Lisa Maunu, 

senior Katie Brophy and senior Lauren Gebauer Lee recorded a career-best in Nevada, carding a two-under-par 70 in the third round. She led the team with a three round score of 217. 
Maunu, who has burst onto the scene this year as a fresh­man, finished fifth on the team with a 245 last week, but has solidified her place in the top five enough to earn a spot in the lineup this week. 
The Lady Jaguar is the last tournament for the Irish before their winter break, which will last until the Central District Classic in Parish, Fla. Feb. 19­
20. The Irish will use the break to do things in practice they don't normally have time for. 
"We stay outside until around Thanksgiving," King said. "We do weightlifting and cardia a couple times a week. We also have some sports psychologists work with us over the winter." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
NYC MARATHON 

Tergat captures closest NYC marathon in history 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Paul Tergat surged one last time, breaking the tape a heartbeat before defending champion Hendrick Ramaala fell across the finish line. 
After more than two hours of running Sunday, the New York City Marathon came down to a final sprint and a third of a second -the closest finish in race history. 
Tergat and Ramaala were side by side all morning, trad­ing the lead for 26.2 grueling miles through New York's five boroughs and across fog­shrouded bridges and leaf­strewn roads. 
Tergat, a Kenyan who holds the world marathon record, and South Africa's Ramaala jockeyed for the lead in Central Park. 
Tergat surged, then Ramaala, then Tergat again. Tergat's official time was 2 hours, 9 minutes, 30 seconds, but the exact clocking was 
2:09:29.90. Ramaala's time was 2:09:30.22. 
It was reminiscent of the 2000 Sydney Olympics, where Tergat and Ethiopia's Haile Gebrselassie sprinted to the finish in the 10,000 meters. Gebrselassie managed one last dash in the final 30 meters, leaning to edge Tergat by nine-hundredths of a sec­ond. 
This time, Tergat crossed the line first on a warm, sticky day. l-Ie was one of 37,516 competitors to start the race, a record for any marathon. 
"The weather was incredi­ble, very hot, but I was trying to keep cool. The least thing that I was expecting is that we were going to have to sprint to finish," Tergat said. "It was really, really painful, we work until the last minute. It reminds me of the Olympics again, but I was not expecting 
that  in  a  marathon,  that  
sprint."  
Hamaala  wasn't  sure  
whether  he  tried  to  dive  

across the finish line, or sim­ply collapsed from exhaustion. 
"I don't remember," he said. "You know, coming in second is not nice. 
"The last hundred meters, who wants to go the last hun­dred meters with Paul? I gave it everything," Ramaala said. "Paul didn't want to lose, I didn't want to lose." 
Meb Keflezighi finished third, the best finish by an American. 
But the U.S. victory drought at the New York race grew to 23 years. 
Women's winner Jelena Prokopcuka had a slightly eas­ier time than Tergat. 

Monday, November 7, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page I 5 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL-SEMIFINALS 
Zahm flies past Morrissey into the Stadium 
Patriots, Colts prepare to face off 
NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect 
for winter. Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec00 fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 

CUTPCIIT Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am· 9:00pm
~ 

Sot.: 10:oo am -B:oo pm Cold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:oo pm ·6:oopm 


a chance to iee the game. 
Behind the running of Ossei­Anto (12 carries, 71 yards) and Muhlenkamp (8 carries, 42 yards), the Bats drove to within the Morrissey five. However, successive penalties moved Zahm back 20 yards, forcing them to throw on third and long. Wieland was blindsided as he rolled left, fumbling in the process. Morrissey rncovered, and Muhlenkamp's interception ended it on the next play. 
A brimming Gourley said he can't wait to play in the Stadium in two wnnks. 
"llt'sl a dream come true," he said. "To have the last game of my career be played in Notre Dame Stadium is unimagin­able." 
Keenan 7, Carroll 0 
Keenan's defense stopped Carroll on it's only fourth quar­ter drive, and its oll'ense did the rest, as thn Knights defeated the Vermin 7-0 on a slippery Sunday at the Stnpan fields. 
There were no points scored in the second half, and turnovers and penalties proved costly for both teams. Both teams made plenty of mistakes, playing the last game of the day on a torn-up, muddy field. Keenan's ofl'ense was penalized 65 yards in total. Keenan threw two interceptions, and Carroll threw one and had a fumble all within the last six plays of the second quartnr. Carroll also had a costly fumble on a sack at the end of the third quarter. 
Keenan's running game was the key to its win. Hunning back Alex Staflieri scored on the sec­ond play of the second quarter from two yards out, and the Knights largely kept it on the ground for the rnst of the game, not even throwing a pass iFI the second half, running out the elock as its defense kept Carroll in check. Keenan ran for 137 yards in total, but was far from dominant, as it was unable to put Carroll away until late in the fourth quarter when the defense came up with a big a 
NFL 

fourth-down stop. 
Both defenses played well, as, in addition to the turnovnrs, each team was forcnd to punt once, and Carroll turned the ball over on downs twice (Keenan did so once). But Carroll's dflfense allownd more big plays than Keenan, inelud­ing passing plays of 45 and 56 yards that went to senior wide receiver Dan Zenker. Keenan had 258 yards of total oll'ense, compared to Carroll's 98. 
Kennan was thrilled with the victory and eager to play Zahm. 
"We came out and we played Keenan football," senior captain Vince Lyzinski said, "And Carroll couldn't stop it." 
Lyzinski credited an excellent performance by the offensive line and tailback Staffinri with sealing Keenan's victory. 
He also said that his team couldn't wait to play its next game. 
"Wn're really excited for Zahm", he said. "Wn've got a little rivalry going, and it's 
Keenan shuts out Carroll to advance to championship ganze 
By COUN REIMER and TIM 
KAISER 

Sporrs Writt•rs 
Morrissey had thn monwn­tum. thn ball and about 2:30 to nwve 70 yards and earn a trip to Notrn Dame Stadium. The Manorites, with the imposing Zahm oiTensn prepared to scorn and put thn gamn away, had miraculously recovm·ml a Snan Winland fumble at their own 30. For the moment, the mighty Bats snmnnd heatable. 
But Cameron Muhlenkamp had othnr ideas. In what has bnr.ome a delining eharaeteris­tic of thn Zahm defense in recent weeks, Muhlenkamp stnppml up and made a play. On the first play after the fumble, the Zahm dnfnnsivn back jumped a quick sideline pass, making a diving interception to snal an X-6 victory and puneh Zahm's tieknt to the Stadium. It was the third turnover that Zahm had foreml on the day. 
"Whnn you're out thero late in thn game, your emotions start running," Bats captain Pat Gourl1~y said. "When we fum­hll~d it late, we wnre a bit con­cnrrwd. 
But I knew that our pass dnfnnsn would step it up." 
Tlw ontire game had a eham­pionship-likn atmosphere. The bitter cold and wet eonditions forced both teams to focus on the ground game. Momentum turned about as often as the gusting winds that blew across Hinhln Field. and the game itself lived up to its billing as a defen­sive slugfnst. Fittingly, Muhlonkamp's stnllar dnfnnsive nll'ort sealed thn gamn. 
llownver. in thn lirst half. it appnarnd as if the game would be a bit more ol'f'nnsivn than what was originally nxpectt~d. Zahm opened the game with an imprnssive 7 -play, 65-yard drivn capped oil' by Theo Ossni-Anto's 1-yard touchdown run. 
The oponing drive was high­lighted by SPan Wieland's 42­yard strike to receiver Jake Hichardville. Wieland thnn hit Seth Frninslebnn for a two-point conversion to make it 8-0, and provide the margin of victory for the Bats. 
Stunnnd, but not faznd, Morrissey answflred Zahm's score with an nxhausting 15­play drive eapped by an 8-yard touchdown pass by quarterback Mike Spencer. The drive fea­turnd a steady diet of the Manorites' powerful running back Nick Kinin, who carried 18 times for 73 yards on the day. The bruising back powered through Zahm's strong defen­sive line, often· carrying several defenders with him. 
"We've bonn doing it all sea­son," Klein said. "Zahm has a very tough defense." 
Unfortunately for Morrissey, Zahm was able to come up with a huge stop when it neednd to, dropping Klein inches short of the goal line on the two-point attempt. It was quite possibly those few inches that kept Morrissey from reaching the championship game. 
Klein however, refused to make excuses. 
"Thern are so many chances throughout the game that you can't look at just one play as the reason you lost," he said. "I'm proud of' our team for the hard work. This is just the how foot­ball is sometimes." 
The teams traded defensive punches throughout the remainder of the game. Late in the third, Morrissey drove deep into Zahm territory, threatening to take the lead. But Pat Gourley picked off a Spencer pass, and Zahm successfully dodged another bullet. 
Morrissey squandered solid fi-eld position in the fourth as well when an attempted reverse backlirnd, resulting in a fumbln. Liam Larkin fell on it for the Bats, setting up his oiTense with going to be a great game." 

Carroll was disappointed at the outcome of the game, but looked baek positively at this season's sueeess. 
"We gave it a heck of an eiTort," Carroll eoach John Tira said of Sunday's game. "We had opportunities, but we didn't connect on any of our long passes. I'm really proud of the way we playnd right until the end. This was a good Kennan team." 
Peter Sweeney, senior eo-cap­tain of thn Carroll team, also saw posilives in his team's per­formancn this s1mson. 
"It was a disappointing loss," he said. "But, overall, the sea­son was good. My freshman year our team didn't win a sin­gle gamo. 
"Sinet~ then, we've come a long way. It's been a great year." 
Contact Colin Reimer and Tim Kaiser at creimerl@nd.edu and tkaiser@nd.cdu 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGII, Mass. -The Indianapolis Colts are still try­ing to prove they can beat a good team this season. The New England Patriots are still trying to prove that thoy are one. 
The Patriots nnod to beat the Colts on Monday night to stay above .500 and win consecutive games for the first time all sea­son. 
The inconsistency is unchar­acteristic for the two-time defending Super Bowl champi­ons, who won 21 in a row while taking the 2004 title and lost just two games in each of the last two seasons. 
"Well, we're working on it," quarterback Tom Brady said. "It's been frustrating for every­body. It's been frustrating for 
r------------------,
: VERA BRADLEY : 
1 20% off with ND/SMCStu.I.D. 1 
I  I  
I  ~lp ~U ~U  :  
1  Ellld Bank Emporium Restaurant Bldg.  1  
1  121 S. Niles Ave., (574} 2:n-8488  I  

L------------------~ 

Coaeh (Bill) Belichick. It's boon frustrating for the othnr coach­es and the players who would Jove to see us more consistent. ... This is the time of the year whern we need to start doing that." 
The Patriots (4-3) have alter­nated wins and losses every game since opening the season with a victory over thn Oakland Raiders. 
Thn toughest stretch of their schndule has been a live-game span against teams that wnrn .500 or better entering Sunday -four of them on tho road. They went 2-3 in those gamns. 
The Colts (7-0) havo had the opposite problem. Of their lirst seven opponents, only Jacksonville was over .500 entering this weekend and only St. Louis was a playoll' tnam last season. 
"For the most part, we haven't played teams with win­ning records," coach Tony Dungy said. "I look at the schedule ahead and everyone, including me, is saying we've got a lot of work ahead of us." 
But Bnliehiek laughed oiT tlw suggestion that the Colts' per­feet rocord was somehow unim­pressive. 
"Every team in this l1~agun is capable of winning every wonk. Just ask whoever you want to ask. You pick up th11 papers every ..Mond~ty. Look at tho scorns, he smd. 
"It isn't about rneords. It's two tnams that are playing and whichevnr team plays bettor, that's thn one who wins. It's not what tJw rncord is nr what tim hypo is or what the stats say and all that. It's the tnam that plays bettor, that's the team that wins. 
"So, what dil'f'ernnee dons it make what anybody's record
. ,,,.
IS. 

Indy's scheduln gets toughnr starting in New England, wlwrn Peyton Manning has IWVnr won. For tho Colts, who ended thnir season in Foxborough in naeh of' the last two years, a vidory would moan a four-gamn advantagn ovnr the Patriots in the race for homn-fiold advan­tage in the AFC playoll's. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 7, 2005 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish upend Pittsburgh with dramatic rally 
By JACK THORNTON Sporrs Writer 

The Irish men's swimming team showed incredible resiliency Friday night, putting together a thrilling rally over Big East rival Pittsburgh to take the meet 122-121. 
Down 119-107 entering the final event, Notre Dame had no margin for error, but the Irish proved they're more accurate than a Zogby election-day poll. The 'A' team of of Louis Cavadini, Alan Carter, Nick Fanslau and Tim Kegelman took first with a time of 3:06.35 while the 'B' squad of Ted Brown, Chris Barnes. Rob Seery and Tim Randolph took second at 3:06.81, giving the Irish 15 of 17 possible points and the victo­ry. 
"I was diving right next to the guy from Pitt, and I knew it was going to come down to him and me, and I just knew I wasn't going to let him to win," Randolph said. "After I touched the wall and before I put my fist in the air, I looked around to see all the fans, the coaches and all the Notre Dame people were going nuts. It was just an amaz­ing feeling." 
The win puts the No. 18 Irish at 2-1 for the season in dual meets. 
"What we've wanted to do is to learn how to win a tough meet on the road and even though it was very, very close and the difference was only one point, nevertheless. we got a tough win on the road," head coach Tim Welsh said. 
Knowing the Irish had to go 1-2 in the final event. Welsh split up the two relay teams so that they would be as close as possible. 
"They'd either both win or both lose, that was our strate­gy," Welsh said. 
The fact that the Irish won the final event (and the eight swimmers finished between :46.09 and :4 7 .19) is a testa­ment to the balance on the team. 
"Certainly a win like this solidifies the group and it also verifies that all along we're a team of balance and a team of depth, and it took every single one of us -we didn't have any extra points," Welsh said. 
Along with the mental focus of the team as a whole, strong individual performances were a key part of Friday's victory. Six swimmers had season-best times, including Jay Vandenberg, who won the 500­yard and 1,000-yard freestyle events for the third meet in a row, and Brian Freeman, who had season best times in the 200-yard backstroke and 200­yard freestyle. 
"Even after the big win against Texas A&M and a tough loss like Purdue, we know every week we need to get back to work," Lutkus said. "Every week we're training harder, and if we train hard, we're gonna keep putting up better times and it's not gorina stop this weekend." 
The Irish came out strong in the first four events of the night to take a 41-33 lead. On the strength of solid one-meter div­ing, the Panthers took the 60-52 advantage after six events and stretched into a 21-point lead {114-93) with only two events to go. 
With only 36 available points left in the match, freshman Daniel Rave cashed in a huge performance, beating out Pittsburgh's Warren Barnes by five-hundreths of a second in the 200-yard breaststroke while Graham Parker and Tyler Grenda placed third and fourth, respectively, to bring the Irish to within 12 points entering the final event. 
"We knew our strengths going into the meet, and we knew we'd be strong at the end of the meet. I think the guys definitely were a little worried but we never lost confidence," co-cap­tain Jamie Lutkus said. 


The Irish entered the meet coming off a definitive loss to higher-ranked Purdue. 
"After coming off of Purdue, we were really down because we could've preformed a lot better in West Lafayette," Randolph said. 
"But to beat Pitt and the way we did is gonna give us a lot of momentum going into Michigan State and in the Notre Dame Invitational before Christmas break." 
The meet held extra impor­tance for the two schools since Notre Dame broke Pittsburgh's eight-year run of Big East con­ference titles last year. 
More than 700 people were in attendance at Trees pool in Pittsburgh. 
"Pitt, to their credit, they swam very well," Welsh said. "They swam faster than they swam last week and faster than they swam against us last year. What's great about this rivalry it's very high competition and it's great sportsmanship. 
"This is college rivalry the way it way its supposed to be; college athleticism at its best." 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Tho111pson tvvins fall short in second grand sla111 of year 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 

Catrina and Christian Thompson's bid to make NCAA history at the ITA National Indoor Championships fell short in the quarterfinal round Friday afternoon. 
The twin sisters won the first grand slam of the season, the ITA All-American Championships last month. They were attempting to become the first-ever doubles team to claim the All­American and Indoor Championships in the same year. 
The Thompsons were elimi­nated by the Stanford team of Alice Barnes and Anne Yelsey by an 8-3 score. The No. 7 Cardinal duo avenged a loss in the quarterfinals of the All­American tournament to the top-ranked Irish team. The Cardinal, much like the Irish in the All-Americans, used the quarterfinal win to propel them to the Indoor Championship title. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback thought the Stanford team would be tough even before the season started. 
"We thought they would be one of the top two teams [along with the Thompsons] in the country," Louderback said. "They were ranked lower only because they didn't play together last year. They are a very good team, but we know we didn't play our best. It's just too bad that we had to play them so early in these tournaments." 
Barnes and Yelsey played on 

different doubles teams last year. 
Their teams comprised the all-Cardinal title match of the NCAA doubles championship last season. The Thompsons' 
loss  came following  an  8-6  
opening round win  over  a  
team from Kentucky.  

Catrina Thompson also par­ticipated in the singles draw of the Indoor Championships, posting a 1-2 record. Thompson lost a hard-fought battle to No. 4 Robin Stephenson of Alabama 6-1, 3­6, 6-4 in the first round. She came back to split two three­set decisions in the consolation bracket, defeating Stephanie Kusano of California before falling to Yelsey. 
Louderback was 
impressed by 
"They are a 

Catrina Thompson's 
very good 

singles play. "That player from team, but we Alabama is very 
know we 

good," he said. 
didn ,t play our

"Catrina played 
best.,,

well and had her chances at 4-4 in the third, but could­Jay Louderback n't pull it out. The 
Irish head coach 

match [against Yesley] was also a really good match and really tight. Catrina had a very good weekend." 
While the Thompsons took on the field at the National Indoor tournament, the rest of the No. 24 Irish competed at the Midwest Blast hosted by the University of Illinois. The tournament was a simulated dual format, consisting of round robin dual matches against Louisville, Wisconsin and Illinois. While team scores were not kept, individual results counted for ranking purposes.The Irish posted a 27-7 record at the tournament, including 10-2 in doubles. 
Four Notre Dame players posted perfect 6-0 records, including senior Kelly Nelson, sophomore Brook Buck and freshmen Katie Potts and Kelcy Tefft. 
Assistant Coach Michelle Dasso, who coached the team at the Midwest Blast, was pleased with the effort and singled out Buck as excelling this weekend. 
"Brook played extremely well," she said. "This was an important tournament for her because her confidence was 
[Statsny] 
down a little during the fall. We need Brook playing her best for us to do well in the spring." 
Dasso thought things went accord­ing to plan on the doubles side. 
"We knew our 
doubles was a strength of our team, and they were 
solid this weekend," the coach said. "Kiki and Lauren 
[Connelly] lost 8-6 to Illinois' number one team, but they played well in that match. They had their chances up 6-5, and even though they lost it was a good match for them. No one else really challenged us apart from that match." 
Dasso also liked the attitude Tefft and Potts brought to the court this weekend. 
"It was important for them to get experience in the dual 

match format, because that is how the spring will be," she said. "They were laid-back and relaxed, and that's the attitude you need to have to succeed." 
The weekend action conclud­ed the fall season for the Irish women, one that was high­lighted by the Thompsons' grand slam title, the first in Notre Dame history. 
The Irish have high expecta­tions for the spring with a tal­ented group of freshmen and experience at the top of their line-up. 

Louderback knew, however, that there was room for improvement during the win­ter off-season. 
"Each player has a specific area they need to work on individually," he said. "We'll do that at the end of the fall here and hopefully we'll be where we want to be when the spring comes." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 

Live a llffleSM on Mondays! 

Ettjoy a double order of chickett, steak or cot~tbo fajitas (ettough for 1Wo) for just tlt.!* Regular Price ~!0.99. 

..;
liS® 
& BAR 

MISHAWAKA 
4810 &rape Rd. .t71--1SSO 

•Offer valid wery Mottday 11 a.111. fo close. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, November 7, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Squad dovvns Big East rival Panthers 138-106 

By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

Tlw womon's swimming and diving toam bouncod back from a disappointing wnP.kond against Cal and l'urduo with a (:on vine in g win over Pittsburgh 13X-IO!i Friday. 
Tlw Irish won snven· out of' I:~ ovnnts, the most important of which worn undouhtodly tho first two nvnnts 
"I think we're right 
of' tho nwot. swimming has In bo t h o I' t lw where we need to really inspired mPPts against Cal nvorybody else
be for the rest of 
and l'urdun, on the tnam,"
the season. " 
Notrn Danw got sophomore ofT to slow starts, Caroline Johnson and tho Irish Jessica Stephens said. spont tho nntiro The win gives
Irish swimmer 
Notrn Dame posted a 1, 2, 3 finish as Stephens won the event in 2:20.06 followed rlosely by tnammatfls Quinn and Katie Hopkins. 
Notre Dame was again aided by a strong perform­ance from its freshmen. who accounted for three of the sovnn l'irst-place l'inishns for tho Irish. 
"Evon though they're few in 
number, they're 
fresh attitude 
and strong 

111 od a tto m pting to l:ateh up. The rolay team of' Caroline Johnson, Julia Quinn, Katie Carroll and Hebecca Grove made surn that didn't happen again as thny won the first nvnnt of tlw night, the 400­yard medlny rnlay. 
Frnshman Clairo Hutchinson lnngthnnnd tho early lead with a victory in the 1,000­yard freestyle. 
"Wn had a good week in practice, and we worn able to usn that to start out well and build ofT that for the rest of tho ment," junior Jessica Stnphens said. 
The Panthers began to make a run during the middle of the mont, but the Irish put the mont out of reach during the 200-moter breast stroke. 
thn swimming 

and diving team its flfst victory of the season, boosting Notrn Dame's record to 1-2. The team, which remained upbeat after its losses last weekend, is extremely confident as it heads into the main stretch of their season. 
"Our training is going real­ly well right now, and we're just focused on getting ready for our invitational which is in two weeks," Stephens said. "I think we're right where we need to be for the rest of the season." 
The team's next meet is Friday at 5 p.m. in the Holf's Aquatic Center. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Stor01 
continued from page 20 

time we played there. We got o_ur ~arne plan right this time. 
St. John's freshman mid­finlder Garry Lewis scored the game's only goal in the 78th minute of play. Senior midfielder Jeff Carroll took a free kick from midf'ield and found senior defender Billy Hole in the box. llole sent the ball to Lewis, who headed it past Irish goalkeeper Chris Cahill to give St. John's the lead. 
The two teams battled to a standstill for much of the first half. with neither side coming up with many scoring oppor­tunities. With 35 seconds remaining in the half, though, the Irish received a big break. St. John's midf'ielder Snbastian Alvarado-Halph was given a red card for elbowing Notre Dame senior defender Ben Crouse in the head. St. John's would have to play the rest of the game with one fewer man on the field than the Irish. 
Playing a man up, Notre Dame began controlling play. The Irish held the ball for much of the second hall", and Irish forwards Joe Lapira and Justin McGeeney had scoring chances for the Irish. The St. John's defense proved strong, though, and thwarted the Irish advances. 
"In the second half, I thought wn wnre really taking control of the game," Clark said. "It was looking as though if a goal was scored, it was going to be us that was going to get it. But we didn't." 
Clark attributed thn loss partly to the great home-fi1~ld advantage held by the Hnd Storm. St. John's plays very well on its turf. 
"It's very fast, and it makns for a very direct game," Clark said. "And they do that better than any team." 
Midf'ielder Alex Yoshinaga led the Irish with four shots. 
Clark said Yoshinaga stood out as having a particularly strong ganw. 
"IYoshinagal found the ball a lot and really worked very hard," Clark said. "llln) picked up second balls and playnd very wnll." 
Cahill rneorded five saves in the game, whiln St. John's keepnr .Jason Landers had two. 
Notre l>anw must now receive an at-largn bid to the NCAA tournament. Clark thinks his tnam has a good shot at being named to the 48-team linld due to its tough sclwdule. 
"We play one of tlw strongnr schedules in the country," Clark said. "It's thn strongest sdwdule wn'vn over playnd. 
"I definitely think wo are in very good shapo." 
The NCAA Tournamnnt field will be announcnd on Monday, Nov. 14. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 


TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer Forward Joe Lapira looks to take control of the ball in Notre Dame's 3-0 loss to Indiana Oct 26. The Irish were eliminated from the Big East tournament after a 1-0 loss to the Red Storm Saturday. 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Win streak snapped at 15 
respectively, and sophomore
By TOM DORWART 
Adrianna Stasuik registered
Sports Writer 
eight. 

In the final game against For only the second time the Panthers, the Irish led this season, the No. 5 Notre 10-8. The Panthers then 
the Irish had only 32 kills on 
.042 hitting. The reason'? Pittsburgh made adjust­
ments. In the first two gamns, the 
Dame volleyball team (22-2, 11-1 Big East) lost. 
Sunday, the Irish -who had won 15 consecutive matches --fell at Pittsburgh (16-9, 9-3 Big East) 30-23, 30-15, 27-30. 28-30, 13-15. 
Saturday the Irish beat West Virginia in Morgantown 30-22, 30-20, 30-17, which kept alive their win streak for just one more day. 
Senior Lauren Brewster led the Irish in both matches with 17 kills on .481 hitting against the Mountaineers and 20 kills on .364 hitting against the Panthers. 
Fellow seniors Lauren Kelbley and Carolyn Cooper added 16 kills and nine kills, went on a 6-1 tear to take a commanding 14-11 lead. Notre Dame cut the lead to 14-13 but fell when Stasiuk uncharacteristically deliv­ered a service error. On the day, the Irish had only three service aces but 14 service errors. 
Pitt coach Chris Beerman must have said something fiery during the intermission between the second and third games. 
The Irish had what looknd like an insurmountabln lmtd, but the Panthers stormed back. 
In the first two games, the Irish pounded 33 kills on .342 hitting. After the break, Panthers rogistered only two blocks but blocked 15 spikos in the final three games. 
The loss ended what was the seeond-longest winning­streak in program history for Notre Damn. It was the longest undnr coach l>nbhin Brown. 
Despite the loss, the Irish remain tied for first plaee in the Big East with Louisville. If the two squads are tied heading into the Big East tournament, the Irish would receive thn top seed beeause of thnir win ovnr the Cardinals two weekends ago. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

Bankruptcy Liquidation Sale! 
300 S. St. Louis Blvd., Ste. 200, South Bend. 
Nov. 8th-Nov. 11th, open 10am to 5:30pm daily Terms of sale CASH, credit cards. NO CHECKS All items sold "AS IS". Computers with 21" monitors, Fax machines, copiers, scanners, ID card maker, printers, Bifone phone system, Plantronic headsets and Misc. items. 
Write Sports. Call 1-4543. 
~----­
I I 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 7, 2005 
Cha01ps 
continued from page 20 
of what that play could have been," she said. "It happened three other times right before that, and it just wasn't happening for us. At least we were creating the opportunities and [put] it in." 
After surrendering its third goal, Connecticut regrouped and tried to mount an offensive attack to cut into the Irish lead. 
But the Irish defense, led by Kim Lorenzen and Candace Chapman, prevented the Huskies from capitalizing on their chances. Despite controlling the ball for most of a 10-minute stretch in the middle of the second half, Connecticut failed to sustain a prolonged attack deep in the Irish zone. 
Lorenzen redirected several crosses from her position at the center of the defense, and Chapman, the right back, marked the Connecticut forwards closely on her side of the field. 
Waldrum said Chapman's ability to sustain a high energy of play for the entire game gives the Irish a decided advantage. 
"I think she's kind of found her rhythm again as the oul<>ide back ... after playing up front for us last year," Waldrum said. "She's just so composed and she's just such a weapon coming out of the back." 
The Irish offense complemented the team's defense in the second half, cashing in on opportunities it gained after the defense forced Connecticut turnovers. 
Senior forward Maggie Manning scored her eighth goal of the year to give Notre Dame a 4-0 lead with 17 minutes remaining in the game. Thorlakson led Manning with a long pass to the right before Manning converted a one­on-one opportunity past a lunging Labbe. 
Less than four minutes later, Susan Pinnick gave the Irish the 5-0 lead that would stand as the game's final score. Pinnick took a pass from Amanda Cinalli, faked left and netted her sixth goal of the season on the right side. 
Notre Dame 3, Marquette 0 
Notre Dame earned a spot in the title game with a 3-0 semifinal victory over Marquette Friday night in a redemption game for the Irish. 
The Golden Eagles embarrassed Notre Dame earlier this year with a 4-1 drubbing at Valley Field but had little success mounting an attack Friday. 
Waldrum said the team's suc­cess Friday was a result of post­season experience rather than revenge as motivation. 
"You can't put all your energy into thinking about a revenge game and things like that," Waldrum said. "We've been in this situation of pressure-packed post­season games so many times, and our players know what it takes to perform at a high level when it matters the most." 
The healthy and rested Irish, playing with junior defender Lorenzen, dominated the game from start to finish. 
Lorenzen, who sat out both Irish losses this year for health reasons, centered the defense against Marquette and stifled the Golden Eagles' attack. 
Waldrum said the presence of Lorenzen in the center of the backfield altered the course of Friday's game compared to the teams' previous meeting. 

"We didn't make the excuses because of the injuries [after the loss]," Waldrum said. "[But] we weren't quite the way we would normally be on our back line [without Lorenzen)." 
With Notre Dame's 3-0 victory Friday and 5-0 shutout Sunday, the Irish are now 15-0-0 in games in which Lorenzen starts, with a 76-3 goal advantage in those eon­tests. 
On the offensive side, Thorlakson opened the scoring for Notre Dame at 31:13 with goal No. 16 of the season for the senior. 
Jen Buczkowski, who was named conference midfielder of the year at the Big East awards banquet Thursday, assisted on Thorlakson's goal and scored one of her own 9:44 into the second half. 
Hanks reached the 60-point milestone in Notre Dame's 20th game just 10 minutes later. With assists from Annie Schefter and Lizzie Reed, the freshman tied Anne Makinen's team record of 23 goals in her freshman season and sealed the game for the Irish. 
Notes 
+ 
With Thorlakson's second assist, she and Hanks became just the fourth duo of teammates in NCAA history with 60 points each in a season. Thorlakson (16G­28A) said she takes more pride in their accomplishments as a tan­dem than in her individual stats. 

"I love playing with her," Thorlakson said of Hanks. "It's great that we can put those num­bers up together." 

+ 
Notre Dame scored three or more goals for the eighth straight game Sunday and extended its winning streak to 10 since its September loss to Marquette. The eight straight games of three or more goals ties a school record. 

"We've been good offensively all year," Waldrum said. "We've got a lot of weapons if we can get them all clicking at the same time." 

+ 
With the two weekend victo­ries, Notre Dame avenged losses to the only two Big East teams to defeat the Irish since 2003. The Irish fell to the Huskies in the 2004 conference title game, 2-1. 


Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

there, getting it done," Pooley said of personnel changes in
Michigan 
the last minutes. "We short­ened the bench and we werecontinued from page 20 
going after the win." verting on 17 of 59 chances The Irish could not put the 
(28.8 percent), good enough icing on the cake, however, for the sixth-best power play and Michigan put the game unit in the country. away at 7-5 on a snipe from 
With the roles reversed, the right slot by Cogliano over Notre Dame was equally Brown's shoulder less than a unsuccessful. minute later. That was fol­
The Irish went 1-for-10 on lowed by an empty-net goal the power play, with under a the lone goal minute remaining coming during a "In hockey, you to seal the game 5-on-3-man at 8-5.
can't get too high 
advantage at "The puck was 
16:32 in the sec­or too low or else bouncing, [Notre ond period scored you're in trouble." Dame] was get­
by Tim Wallace. ting the bounces "We gave guys and we were
Erik Condra 
open seams," chasing them," Pooley said of the Irish center Michigan head 
Irish penalty kill. "A backdoor goal, high slot goal, those are the things we can adjust on and just make sure we can cover better because it's a special teams game, and we lost the special teams battle tonight." 
The Irish trailed 6-3 after a well-executed Michigan two­on-one by T.J. Hensick and Andrew Cogliano ended with a one-timer to the right side by Hensick past diving Irish goalie David Brown (23 saves) 12:31 into the third. 
Notre Dame responded immediately with pressure on the Michigan defensive zone, and the Wolverines were caught on their heels. In a span of 23 seconds, the Irish cut Michigan's lead to 6-5 and placed themselves in position to take back a game that had been the Wolverines' to own. 
Freshman Garrett Regan deposited the puck past Michigan goaltender Noah Ruden (26 saves) on a fast break down the left side at 
15:13 into the third. Regan deked towards the right on Ruden before pulling the puck back and around to the left post, where he slid the puck along the ice past a sprawling Ruden. 
Fellow freshman Erik Condra went head-first for the win and the goal to put it at 6-5 on a breakaway. Condra broke hard towards the Michigan net, but was tripped up. 
He managed to light the lamp while laying prone, just before crashing into the right post. 
"[Jackson] was playing the guys that were competing out 
coach Red 

Berenson said. "We didn't play good team hockey in the third period. We found a way to win the game, but we can't be happy with our game." 
The Irish set the tone early in the game when they took a 1-0 lead only 18 seconds after the puck dropped. Notre Dame won the faceoff and charged into the Wolverine zone. Wallace attempted a wrap­around that led to a mad scramble for the puck in front of the net, where Matt Amado buried the puck for the goal. 
Michigan followed that up with four unanswered goals, three on the power play, between the midway points of the first and second periods. Freshman Travis Turnbull tied the game at 1-1 halfway through the first during a scramble in front of Brown on a power play. And with less than a minute left in the first, Wolverine Chad Kolarik beat Brown low and away on a hard snap shot. 
Jason Bailey and Brandon Naurato tallied a goal apiece in the first half of the second to put Michigan at 4-1. The Irish answered with Wallace's power play goal, but then allowed Michigan to put the game at 5-2 on a Kevin Porter shot less than three minutes into the third. 
The momentum swung towards the Irish yet again when Mike Walsh took control of the puck along the right side of the boards in front of Michigan's net. 
Walsh turned and fired a hard wrist shot towards Ruden and beat the goalie high to cut the lead to 5-3 at 7:16 into the period. 
The game remained dead­locked until the scoring explo­sion in the latter half of the third. 
"In hockey you can't get too high or too low or else you're in trouble," Condra said of the back-and-forth nature of the game. "You get too low, and they score a couple of goals, 
and  you're just down.  We  
stayed pretty calm  on  the  
bench and  came  back.  It's  

tough going back and forth with all the emotion shifts." 
Michigan 4, Notre Dame 2 
The special teams trouble that plagued the Irish on Friday night continued into Saturday as the team traveled to Michigan for the second half of the series. 
Michigan (7-1-1 overall) pre­vailed over Notre Dame 4-2 and swept the two-game sea­son series while scoring three power play goals on six chances. 
The Irish gave the nod to freshman goalie Jordan Pearce to start between the pipes, and he made 25 saves on the night. 
A two-goal second period for the Wolverines insured the loss that moved the Irish to 1-5-0 on the year. 
Kolarik found the back of the net at 15:10 into the second on the bane of Notre Dame's exis­tence -the power play -to put the game at 3-2 in Michigan's favor. Hensick fol­lowed up with a goal of his own 1:22 later to cap the scor­ing at 4-2. 
Michigan got on the board first, just five minutes into the first period, on a power play goal by Cogliano, but was soon evened up with an Amado goal. 
Amado was assisted by Wallace on the rebound goal at 
6:34. The Irish took their sec­ond lead in two nights at 11:34 into the first on a Michael Bartlett shot. The lead would remain 2-1 in Notre Dame's favor until 19:55 into the peri­od. 
Kolarik notched his third goal in two games and tied the game up at 2-2 on an open net rebound. 
The Irish will host Bowling Green in two straight home games, starting Thursday night at 7:35p.m. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 


Right wing Tim Wallace reaches for the puck against Michigan in the Wolverines' 8-5 victory over the Irish Friday night. 



Monday, November 7, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ERIK POWERS & ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 

WEL(OME \o 11-IE Nl:> ~ ToThU.'\ r-.oi'I-Offt:I'IS\\IE WHA\SDE.\J~ ,o.i"\1) CAI'I NEVE~ BE. (ON~\R.~E..D 
As OFfENS,I\fE \S') AN')ONE IS'\ AN'\ 
Mt:.AN~~" (OM€:{)\j 5\-\0W. 

WE.'VE.. C:Jo-r A 
··n.o~P:NK~ 1. S"''{ ... 
\sl\11 "IHIS

6RE-.AT 
\ 

UNE-UP \oNihl\1; 
11\1 e.R..E 1--l~ \111\llt 

5o LE.TS 
I 1"\t.AN .~ou H.l\:11-iT 
(1'\I..L.

BfZ-lN u OLIT 
0\..1" Flgs,T 
COM~OIAN 
gp.~~l>F'A\1-\E e_ 
Wt{:. klu.W IN MILD·O-IlE.!"ISE.R 
~u<.tul-\\ C:tu.'j"':>. WERE. C:roiNGr To 1-\ A\1 E -r"o W o f2-K. -r~ IS auT H. E. ?-si:. 
JUMBLE 
JJ~Wf1IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I YONPE 
j 
1 
rx 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
l~ffl []
tZARWID I
J I I tJ 
www.jumble.com 
Saturday' Jumbles: s Answer: 

SIXTY KNACK PLENTY GOSPEL Was the preschooler able to tie his shoe on the first try?-"KNOT" LIKELY 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
11-7 
WHAT THE: TYC.OON RE:C.E:IVE:D WHE:N He= SOLD THE: GUM FAC.TORY. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car­
(Answers tomorrow) 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  31 English  67 Shells out  
1 Top stories of  cathedral site  68 Indoor arena  
barns  32 Bettors'  feature  
6 With 26-Across,  promises, e.g.  69 Not saying  
Massachusetts  34 Cave  much  
resort area  36 White-collar  
10 Toot one's horn  crime  DOWN  
14 Onetime Dutch fad item 15 "'Potpourri' for a thousand, _" 16 Mother of Apollo and Artemis  investigators follow them 40 Patronize, as a restaurant 41 Barbie or Ken 44 Cumberland  1 Inc., abroad 2 With 60-Across, Thornton Wilder play 3 Recurred, as an ailment  
17 Theater school  47 Default modes  4 East_ (U.N.  
study  50 Vote in favor  member since  
18  Ness  51 Start of a cry by  2002)  
monster  Juliet  5 They may be  
19 Natural soother  53 Didn't talk  wide open  
20 Any of the  smoothly  6 Tranquility  
Stones or the  55 Sidestroke  7 Outfielder  
Who, e.g.  features  Moises  
23 Multichanneled  59 Hourglass fill  a Chest muscles,  
25 It may have  60 See 2-Down  briefly  
screwdrivers on  61 Loathes  9 Most damning  
it  64 Look_ (study)  evidence,  
26 See 6-Across 27 Moving jerkily  65 Author Wiesel 66 Les _-Unis  maybe 1o"The Project"  Witch  35 The "0" in G.O.P.  44 Grapevine contents  54 Play ice hockey 56 Caramel candy  
37 Church organ  45 Obscure  brand  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -::T=-r:=r:,-r::,-:-T:'"I -:::+r:+:~~:+:-+:::-1 At:::+:-t..r.:~-h-l  11 Tell 12 Lacking a key, in music 13 Is called 21 Keystone_  features 38 Deep-seated 39 Susan Lucci, notably  matters 46 Like the tops of dunce caps 48 Prefix with state  57 Sink's alternative 58 Elbow's lower counterpart  
(old comedy  42 Strong alkaline  49 Fragrant pouch  62 Aliens, for short  
figure)  43 Batted first, with  52 Windows  63 Reverse of  
~.,+.;~+:::-~  22 Spiny plants  "off"  predecessor  NNW  
-=+-=+=+::-!-:~  23 Physics, for  
-=-+-:-+-:+,..+.:+:::+:::-! 30 Rich dessert 


one: Abbr. For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 24 Overly 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 

1-::-t-:+.:::+:::-f"!"' -::+:::+:~-t-:::-~r-:-t~::+.:rl 28 What "I" and Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
"am" do Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
29 Ninas: Abbr. 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 33 Unhappy solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address ________________________________________ City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ethan Hawke, 35: Glenn Frey, 57; 
Sally Field, 59; Lori Singer, 48 

Happy Birthday: Don't make this a year when you spin your wheels, talk a big talk and produce little. Make things happen--don't just wait for them to fall in your lap. You have so much potential and the opportunities are apparent, so nothing will he too difficult once you begin the process. Your numbers are 7. 13. 15,27,35,43 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You may not like what you encounter today, hut it will be the grand finale thai will count. Be true to yourself and play by the rules. You will rise above the obstacles; stick to your beliefs. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will surpass everyone's expectations including your own. You will be in tunc with the people you care most about, and love will not elude you. A trip will verify that you have done what's best for you. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be eager to spend money. but your wisest investment will be real estate. This is not the day to lend or donate. Keep your money in a safe place or invest in something sure. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Partnerships will make aditTerence to lhe outcomt• of your day. Your concern with how you look or present yourself will lead to some minor but very flattering changes. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The little bit of work you do today will pay otT big­time in the future. By entertaining others you will put yourself in line for a new position. Serious talks will lead to a serious commitment. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Everything is changing. Keep yourself in the loop so you can take advantage of whatever opportunity opens up. Social events will bring you in contact with someone who can lead you in a prosperous direction. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Watch what you say to whom, especially at an emotional or personal level. You may get into trouble if you name-drop or exaggerate. Stick to basics and don't pretend you know more than you do. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): More is happening than meets the eye. Be prepared to take advantage ofa very interesting proposal. Social events will take a surprising turn. Consider what you always wanted to do for a living and discuss how you can make it happen. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your mind will be on your future and where you see yourself heading. Research what you must do to reach your objectives. A sudden change in your personal life may confuse you. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may have a hard time containing the way you feel. A chance meeting with someone from your past will be lead to an interesting option. Facing your past will allow you to move on. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be pulled in two ditlerent directions. It will be difficult for you to be logical about personal issues. Stop living a lie. Arguments will not solve your problem. Aclean hreak is what it will take. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Getting involved in a community event or with neighbors will help you have a better understanding of what can be accomplished. An effort to make your environment better will lead to other possibilities. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, steadfast and secure about who you are and what you can do. You have integrity, discipline and the ability to get others to listen to you. You are a driving force. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consl41tatitms 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, November 7, 2005 
page 20 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Sunday slaughter 
Thorlakson leads Irish to first conference title since 2001 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
MILWAUKEE, Wise. -Katie Thorlakson finally added a post­season Big East Championship to her resume. 
The two-time conference offen­sive player of the year, who also picked up national player of the year honors last season from three soccer publications, led the No. 5 Irish Sunday to a 5-0 victory over rival Connecticut for Notre Dame's first conference tourna­ment victory since 2001. 
"I was getting to the point where it never thought it was going to happen," the senior said. "It's good ]and] it's good that we won so handily." 
In front of just 418 fans at blus­tery Valley Fields on the campus of Marquette University, Thorlakson secured tournament offensive MVP honors with two assists and a corner kick to set up another Irish goal against the No. 15 Huskies. · 
With 20 minutes remaining in the first half, Thorlakson sent a corner kick from the right side that drifted back towards the net amidst the heavy Milwaukee wind. Connecticut goalie Stephanie Labbe blocked junior Christie Shaner's one-time header, but freshman Brittany Bock found the net on the rebound to give the Irish a 2-0 advantage with 19:17 remaining in the first half. 

"It was hard because the wind's really high today, so I was just try­ing to putr it up a little higher because I know Shaner can out­jump pretty much anyone," Thorlakson said. 
Notre Dame, whose victory extended its winning streak to 224 games when it takes a 2-0 lead, remained aggressive even with the early advantage. The Irish bench kept the first line's quick tempo and forced Connecticut to play on its heels all 90 minutes. 
Irish head coach Randy Waldrum said Notre Dame's tal­ent on its second line makes it more like a hockey second line than the usual soccer substitution. 
"I think you could see today our depth came on and did a great job for us," Waldrum said. "Those kids, any [time] ... we've changed them, we haven't skipped a beat." 
Freshman standout Kerri Hanks extended the Irish lead to three and picked up goal No. 24 on the season -a new Irish freshman record -with a tap-in of a Thorlakson cross 20:15 into the second half. 
Thorlakson said she was not surprised she and Hanks com­bined for the goal. 
"That was like the fourth replay 
see CHAMPS/page 18 


MEN'S SOCCER 

Team falls to St. John's 1-0 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame was out for redemption. 
On Sept. 16, the Irish were badly outplayed at St. John's in a 2-1 loss to the Red Storm. Notre Dame headed into Saturday night's rematch in the second round of the Big East Tournament looking for a much better result this time around in New York. 

But despite playing a very competitive game, the Irish fell to the Red Storm 1-0 and were eliminated from the Big East Tournament. 
"We played fairly well," Notre Dame head coach Bobby Clark said. "We certainly played better than the last 
see STORM/page 17 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

The Chaos :m_ove one step closer 
By JAMES FEGAN, 
GREG ARBOGAST, 
CATHERINE KANE and 
DREW FONTANAROSA 
Sports Writers 

Cavanaugh quarterback Lisa Ruffer's pass sailed through the cold November air into the wait­ing arms of her receiver, who shed a tackle and streaked down the sideline for a 50-yard 
touchdown, See Also providing Cavanaugh "Zahm flies past 
with an Morrissey into important 
the Stadium"
score on its opening drive page 15 of a 14-0 vic­tory over Badin. 
With icy winds blowing through McGlinn fields all after­noon, both ofl"enses were as cold as the weather and were unable to sustain any drives mQst of the day. Cavanaugh struggled offen­sively, but capitalized on a few big pass plays for scores. After passing for a score on Cavanaugh's initial drive, Ruffer completed a 25-yard pass to get 
see CHAOS/page 12 
HocKEY 

Irish drop two wild games to Wolverines 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

The sold-out crowd packed into the Joyce Athletic Center Friday night played witness to an electric, momentum­shifting game punctuated with goals fit for the highlight reel -and plenty of them ­in a thrilling 8-5 loss to the Michigan Wolverines. 
Notre Dame had to battle from behind against the No. 3 Wolverines most of the night, trailing by a 4-1 margin in the second stanza and then by 5-2 and 6-3 during the third period. 
But the Irish refused to give up and fought back to put the game at 6-5 with slightly more than four minutes remaining in regulation, before Michigan was able to put the game away with its seventh goal. 
"We competed hard down the stretch," Irish associate head coach Paul Pooley said. "It was a pleasure to watch, because that is what Coach [Jeff1 Jackson has been talk­ing about since day one: com­peting, competing, competing and never-say-die, and we showed that tonight." 
The Irish struggled mightily on the penalty kill, allowing four power play goals on the first five Michigan chances ­the Wolverines had seven total man-advantages. Michigan has thrived on the power play this season, con-
see MICHIGAN/page 18 


~D VOlLEYBALl  WOME~'S SWIMM~~G  MEN'S SWIMMI~G  ND WOMEN'S TENNIS  
LLI  
u  Panthers 3  Irish 138  Irish 122  Twins Christian and  
z::5 = cc =  Irish 2 Pittsburgh snaps No. 5 Notre Dame's 15­match winning streak Sunday.  Panthers 106 Notre Dame knocks off Big East rival Pittsburgh to improve dual meet record to 1-2.  Panthers 121 Irish rally from 119­107 deficit to edge Panthers in the meet's final event.  Catrina Thompson fall short in their bid to win the ITA National Indoor Championships.  
page 17  page 17  page 16  page 16  


·;·:~ 
eld off Tennessee h the help of two ski touch ns. 

41. -21 






