
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Circle K frustrated with transportation rules 
bingo. Social Concerns (CSC) vans. For By MARY KATE MALONE 
"By the time we would have years, the vans have been free to News Writer 
gotten to the nursing home, it any student doing service off would have been 20 minutes campus. This year, it costs $55 a Tlwy say llw third time's the beforn we were supposed to be day for one van. d1arrn. back on campus," said Toitgen, "It was costing the CSC $HO,OOO 
But not for .Jakn TPitgnn and who is trnasurnr of Cirele K. "So to nmt vnhicles from Notrn Dame Cirdt! K's 10 volunteers who have wn just got back on tlw bus and for the students to use," esc triPd thrnt! limns to play bingo at went back to Notre Dame. We assistant director .Jim Paladino a local nursing homn using a spent an hour and a half out and said. "The cost had risen enough Transpo bus to gPt thnrn. about without having done any over the past few years, and the 
Last Monday, tho group of s11rvice." vans still weren't meeting the Cirl'h~ K nwrnbt!rs waitnd 45 min­That was strike one. They tried demand." utns at a downtown Transpo stop two morn times and still never esc transportation director in ordnr to catch a bus to the made it to the nursing home. .Joanna Basile estimated the cost nursing homn. When it finally Circln K and other service of renting the vans put the esc arrivnd, llwy wnrn told the bus organizations on campus have $40,000 over budget. systnm had consolidated and it bonn trying to cope with a new would still be a long drive to play $55 fee attached to Center for see CSC/page 9 

Arrests made at tailgates, ejections at gatne 
NDSP jails four people on Saturday 
By MADDIE HANNA 
A•soci:ue News Editor 
Notrt! Dame Sncurity and l'olieo (NDSI') arrnstnd four poo­pfn and dtnd 46 both bnl\lre and during Saturday's filOtball game against Michigan Statn. 
Assistant Dirnetor of' NDSP Phil .Johnson said three eustodi­al arrosts wnrn made for public intoxii~ation and disorderly eon­duct at or nPar Notre Damn Stadium. The fourth custodial arrnst was madn for disorderly conduct at Lngnnds. 
Tlw citations worn givnn to 4:~ adults and thrnn juvnnilns f'or minor in consumption, minor in possnssion, minor in a tavnrn and fitlsn idtmtifkation . .Johnson said. Tlw minor in a tavnrn cita­
sec TAILGATES/page 8 

BETH WERNETfThe Observer 

Students were ejected from Saturday's game for throwing marshmallows and being Intoxicated. 
Gagnon says 15 total students ejected Sat. 
By KATIE PERRY 
Assistant News Editor 
Things got sticky at Saturday's football home opener when sta­dium security ejected live stu­dents fhr tossing marshmallows within the stands, coordinator of stadium personnel Cappy Gagnon said. 
Gagnon said marshmallow­related ejections were a "little down" from last year and he wit­nessed a lower amount of' this behavior than in previous years. 
"It's not so much marshmallow throwing, but throwing in gener­al !that concerns usl," Gagnon said. "We can't tolerate it." 
Gagnon said stadium person­no! usnd to put up with the tradi­tion when it was limited to "a small group of seniors," but now 
see EJECTIONS/page 8 

National Champs draw few ND students 
season we have attendances of 1 ,200 and 1,500 and over 2,000." Cundill' said. "But we struggle drawing for the very wintnry cold games, the rainy games, which has played a role in why we draw so poorly for the conference tournanwnt and the NCAA tournament games." 
In tho 2004 season. the average fan attendance per game was 1,115, and in 2003 thn average was 95H. 
Nicolo Jones, the Sports Promotion Coordinator fiu· tho men·s and women's soccer tnams, is working to bring morn studonts to the games. She bnlievod dis­taneo factored into the low attnndanee. 
"Many students don't como Ito thn games I because it is too far to walk." Jones said. 
The soeenr team uses promotions to draw people to the games. Usually advertisnments can be seen in the din­ing halls in the days loading up to naeh home game. At the DoPaul game, tho 
see SOCCER/page 8 
COR 

City officials try to clarify ordinance 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 

Assistant City Attornny Ann­Carol Nash and South Bond Common Council nwmbnr Ann Puzzello Hlet with studnnt gov­ernment leadnrs at Monday's Council of Heprnsentativns nwnt­ing to exchange views on tlw dty's recent anwndment. to thn disorderly housing ordinanen. 
Tho disorderly housn ordi­nanc.o, onacted in the narly 1990s, enables the dl.y to labnl a plaen wlwrn enrtain illngal activ­ities recur as a publie nuisanen. The recent amondmnnt. draftnd by Nash, adds excisn-rnlatnd aetivities to tho applieabln wdn of conduct and allows tho eity to send landlords and tenants a notice to abate after a single instance of' noise violation. If prohibitod ac..tivitios contintw af'tnr this notice, the city will then lile a suit that could result in a line of up to $2500 per day for as long as thn activity contin­ues. 
St.udont body prnsidnnt l>avn Baron said lw was eonenrnnd with a elause of tho ordinaneP that frees landlords from culpa­bility if thny dnlivnr tnnants an evietion noticn. 
"From my JWrSIH'rtivo as a student, you are bning givnn a notice to abatn without llw opportunity to abatn," lw said. "It's not a warning. You arn kieknd out on thn strnnt." 
Nash silnn1~ml the st.udnnt gov­Prnnwnt rnpresnntativns wlwn she said this notice was tlwir warning. 
"Who lwrn dons not know it's illngal to serve alcohol to an IH­year-old?" shn asknd. "It is unfair to frame this as a big sur­prise. It's a criminal law. You're 
see COR/page 9 

By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
On Saturday al'tnrnoon, morn than HO,OOO fans gathered at Notre Damn Stadium to support the Irish football team in their lirst homo game. 
But Friday night, the defending national champion Notre Dame women's soecnr tnam bnat DePaul 6-0 in front of less than thrnn pnrennt of the attendancn of the Michigan State game. 
Tim lif'th-ranknd team's soeeer games arn playnd on Alumni Finlcl, which has a seating capaeity of 2,500. On Friday, 1,914 fans attended. 
The stadium was not lillnd to capadty, but thn women had rnon1 fans than usual due to the crowds in town for the football game. Director of Events and Sports Promotion Monica Cundifl' tracks the attendance numbers at these games. 
"Many games throughout the soccer 
page 2 The Observi'T + PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 20, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Don't w-ork 


too hard 
Ever get the feeling you are for­getting something you just can't quite put your finger on? Or have days where no matter how many notes you leave yourself, or times you check your schedule, the Dustin feeling doesn't go Mennella away? 
Since returning to college life, Photographer my weeks inevitably con­tain days like that. Sometimes it's lack of sleep, and others I really am forgetting something I should­n't, but on most occasions it's sim­ply due to the college lifestyle. With so many clubs, intramural sports, dorm activities, organizations, stu­dent jobs and possible charity events. not to mention schoolwork on top of it all, it's a wonder I remember as much as I do. 
Not that I think all these activi­ties are bad, just the opposite. While here, we should make the most out of the opportunities this University offers us, because in real life there's nothing like it. The trick is simply balance. Like we hear in breakfast cereal commer­cials and health class. a well bal­anced diet is important for your health. But more than just that, balancing activities can be good for your mental health, and I don't· mean simply organizing your schedule to fit all of your clubs, meetings, and such for the day. Remember to be random some­times -just go with the flow and see where it leads. If most of your schoolwork is technical like science or math, be creative; draw a pic­ture (preferably not while the pro­fessor's watching), or make up a word and see if you can get some­one to believe it's real. 
Don't be afraid to make mistakes or be embarrassed-often mistakes make the funniest memories and situations you think could be embarrassing will turn out to be fine. I still remember an amazing trip I took with my family down to Costa Rica when I was in high school. One of the first days as we were eating lunch outside, a small squirrel-monkey snatched my wal­let from the table -I had to follow it from tree to tree until (a thank­fully short number of trees later) the furry bugger finally realized it wasn't edible. My brothers were falling over laughing as I walked back, and I remembered to return my wallet to its pocket from then on. 
So remember, as much as hard work can help, you don't have to work all the time; we're not machines. And hey, not even they work all the time ( ... stupid comput­er). Take an adventure -unfortu­nately adventures cannot really be planned. It's only when events stray from what you intended that the adventure begins. 
Contact Dustin Mennella at 
dmennell@nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journ;~lism at all times. We do, however, rec­ognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a misrake, please con­tact us at 63 I -4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT NO SPORTS MEMORABILIA WOULD YOU LOVE TO GET YOUR HANDS ON? 


Brittany Pangburn Eleanor Bradley Kevin Baker 
sophomore sophomore sophomore McCandless Breen Phillips Keenan 
"/ would love to "Alan Carter's 'Jl game-worn touch the speedo." ND jersey (#J}, 
clipboard that because the Weis uses every number carries game and so much 
unleash the tradition with magic." it. , 

OFFBEAT 
librarians pose for sexy calendar 
WAUPACA, Wis. Projecting an image very different from that in which librarians are usual­ly portrayed, six· area library administrators have produced a sexy cal­endar they are selling to 
raise  money  for  their  
libraries.  
The  idea  for  the  

"Desperate Librarians" 2006 wall calendar came about because Craig Lahm is retiring after 32 years of running Kaukauna's library, and his colleagues in the Outagamie Waupaca Library System wanted to 
TODAY 

0::: 
come up with a different kind of gift. 
Twelve of them decided they would use photo­graphs of themselves to make a simple calendar that they would print at a Walgreens. But after the librarians took their idea to Countryside Photograp­hers in Seymour, they decided to professionally produce a calendar and sell it as a fund-raiser. 
School athlete has bear for a playmate 
MIDDLETOWN, Ohio ­High school athlete Josh Herbert isn.'t easily intimi­dated by opponents, not when he has a 6-foot-5, 450-pound bear for a play­mate. 

But after spending his early childhood fighting off life-threatening leukemia, he's used to challenges. His pet bear is more fun than frightening. 
"He's never been too rough with me," Herbert said of "Buddy," the bear. "He's playful, but he knows when to stop." 
The family has raised the orphaned 8-year-old American Black Bear since he was a cub. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Patrick Sweeney  Tae Kang  Tony Crosser  
freshman  sophomore  sophomore  
St. Ed's  Keenan  Keough  
"Joe Montana's  'Jllock of  ''Tim Brown's  
jockstra!) from  Charlie We is'  Reisman  
his national  hair because he  trophy."  
championship  is the fairest of  
game.  them all."  

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
LLI 
::z:: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 

~
~ 

< 
(,) 
...J 0 HIGH 72 HIGH 55 HIGH 78 HIGH 87 LOW 55 LOW 48 LOW 60 LOW 65 



IN BRIEF 

Author Frances Sherwood will give a lecture sponsored by the political science department titled "Meeting Mary Wollstonecraft: Legacy as Personal Odyssey" tonight at 7 
p.m. in room 210-214 McKenna Hall. A reception and book signing will follow the lec­ture. 
The English Department is sponsoring Haworth Day at Notre Dame: A Celebration of the Poetry and Visual Art of the British/Irish Poet. Tom Raworth. Events will take place today from 4:30 to 8:30 p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. Haworth will read at 6:30 p.m. 
Hammes Mowbray Hall, the new home of Notre Dame Security/Police and the Notre Dame post office. will be dedi­cated at 9 a.m. on Friday. University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh will ofl'er a blessing, just as he did at the dedication five decades ago of the bookstore that was located on the South Quad from 195? to 1999. 
Fiddler's Hearth is hosting a "halfway to St. Patrick's' Day" Irish Fest today through Sept. 23 to raise money for the Red Cross Hurricane Relief Fund. Irish bands The Sprigs, The Bardic Apostles, The Fenians, Teada, Brock McGuire and local band Kennedy's Kitchen will perform, and all have dis­counted their tickets to aid the relief. Fiddler's Hearth is locat­ed in downtown South Bend at 127 N. Main. For tickets and information, call 232-2853. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

Atlanta 92 I 69 Boston 82 I 60 Chicago 78 I 60 Denver 88 I 57 Houston 98 I 74 Los Angeles 78 I 62 Minneapolis 82 I 60 New York 84 I 66 Philadelphia 86 I 66 Phoenix 107 I 83 Seattle 65 I 50 St. Louis 85 I 63 Tampa 94 I 76 Washington 87 I 64 
Tuesday, September 20, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
====================================~============~~============= 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group discusses pep rallies 
Rector worries about all students being able to attend the rallies 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Wri1er 
Angnr ovnr studonts bning turned away from Friday's pop rally provoked discussion at Monday's Campus Life Council 
ICLC) mooting. 
"We nond to find a bnttnr way to get poopln into p1~p rallies," Knott rnetor Brother Jnrome Moynr said. "We need some­thing bettor than one small door. Morn gates need to be opon lilf our students so there is loss pushing and shoving. Somoone nonds to look at this." 
Members dnbated the issue and explornd ways to improve the situation bofore tho next ptlp rally on Oet. 14. 
"Students in my dorm came up to mn saying that 200 stu­dnnts woren 't allowed in the pop rally because they oversold tieknts," Knott senator and Soda! Coneorns task force co­ehair Jacques Nguyen said. "Thny came 15 minutes before it started. What action should wn take'?" 
Hall Presidonts Council eo­chair Dan Zenknr said thn hall presidnnts worn told prior to tho pnp rally that tho student Joyen Clmter doors would doso at 5:45 p.m. on Friday. 
I>ivnrsity Council rnprnstmta­tive Joyee f{andall said somo­thing had to be done to fix the problem. 
"Didn't alumni have their fair shot when they attondod here?" Handall said. "Shouldn't stu­dents have their shot ·at going to their pop rallies'! There should never be a time when you turn students away from cheering on their own team." 
Members decided Zenker should work on the issue when he meets with Student Activities Ollke assistant direc­tor Peggy Hnatusko on Tuesday. 
"We have another month before the next pep rally," Zenker said. ''I'm glad I heard your concerns. We were expecting erowds but the Joyce Center had a way of doing it that was not efficient." 
In other CLC news: 
+ The three CLC task force ehairs reported on the progress of their committees. 
Chief executive officer and Social Concerns task force co­ehair Liz Kozlow told members the committee touched on many issues at last week's meeting. 
"We talked about a woman becoming president at Notre Dame," Kozlow said. "We dis­cussed rectors' oversight over dance and '!'-shirt themes and the need for Campus Ministry to provide more services for non-Catholies or at least improve advertising for those events taking place off earn-pus." 
Campus Grounds and Struetures task foree chair James Lnito said his committee had beon investigating vandal­ism. 
"We want to lind out where rectors stand on the issue lof vandalism] and start a joint eft'ort," Loito said. "We are in the research stage to lind out which of'lices deal with these things." 
The Student Voice and Input task force, chaired by 'Stanford senator David Thaxton, met last week to research student involvement in the University. 
"We need to see what the sta­tus is of student involvement at Notre Dame. Then we want to get an idea of how Notre Dame stands eompared to 10 peer institutions," Thaxton said. "We also looked into student involvement in dift'erent depart­ments like catering, dining halls and the president's office." 
+ The group decided to cheek on the status of a safety resolu­tion that last year's Security task foree worked on extensive­ly. 
"Let's look at how the resolu­tion exists now and decide what this year's CLC can do with it and go from there," Carroll redor Father Jim Lewis said. "Do we want to add to it? Or do we want to write some­thing entirely dift'erent'?" 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Guest speakers bring propositions to Board 
By ALLISON RIDER 
News Writer 
Three guest speakers addressed the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) at the group's Monday meeting, all bringing different propositions and ideas to the lloor. 
Senior aceounting major Anna Bauer came to BOG with the hopes of obtaining funding in helping the accounting dub make a trip to Washington D.C. for a one-day tax-maker confer­ence in November. 
The Board accepted the dub's request, deciding to provido $100 for eaeh member going on the trip or a flat rate not exceed­ing $1,500, provided an open forum/discussion is available to the sehool after the dub's trip. 
The Photography Club also came to the Board to request official club recognition on Saint Mary's campus and after deliber­ation by the Board, was granted permission. 
A school representative hoping to bring a new chapter of Active Minds on Campus to Saint Mary's was present at the meeting. Active Minds is an organization that tries to get students to be proaetive about mental health and also works to de-stigmatize mental illness. 
The chapter would bring morn resources and information to the campus for studnnts dealing with mental stress or issues, tho rep­resentativo said, and would give students tho opportunity to dis­cuss personal problems with peers in similar situations. The Board hopes to consider the group proposal in the futuro once a more eonerntn constitu­tion is provided. 

Studnnt body president Kellye Mitros gave a report on last week's "Save the School" address. 
She also reminded the Board that tho Vatiean II conference is taking place this Friday and Saturday and eneouragnd mem­bers to attend. 
"It sounds like it's going to bn really fun," Mitros said. 
A decision is expeeted next week on the BOG Alumni com­missioner. 
Student Activities Board eorn­missioner Meghan Cahill announeed that a volleyball spirit game will take place tonight at 6 p.m. 
Student Diversity Board presi­dent Amanda Shropshire intro­duced a "list of performers" for the school bonlirl~ that wHI take plae1~ Oct. 5 at the soeeer fields. Participants will include the Notrn Damn Stop team, the Saint Mary's Irish dance elub and Ballet Folklorieo. 
Contact Allison Rider at ariderO I @saintmarys.edu 




Fremantle, Australia 
Information Meeting 
Tuesday,Sept.20,2005 5:30-7:00 PM Room 141 DeBartolo 
!students in the College of AL & BA onlyl 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2005 for Fall 2006 and Spring 2007 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/i"Wintlstud 
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 20, 2005 

NOTRE DAME FORUM 
Thursday, September 22 @ JACC, 2-4 p.m. 
CONVOCATION 
Friday, September 23 @ JACC, 3-4:30 p.m. 
POST-INAUGURAL RECEPTION 
Frid.ay, September 23 @ the Reflecting Pool of the Theodore M. Hesburgh Library immediately following the Convocation 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 20, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
AI-Qaida claims the London attacks 
CAIHO-Al-()aida deputy leader Ayman ai-Zawahri said in a statement broadcast Monday that his terror network carried out the July 7 London bombings, marking the group's first direet elaim of responsibility for thn attacks that killed 52 people. 
"Thn blessNI London attack was one whieh al-()aida was honored to launch against the British Crusader's arrogance and against the American Crusader aggres­sion on tlw Islamic nation for 100 years," ui-Zawahri said in the tape aired on Qatar­based al-.Jazeera TV. 
"In their f'inal testament, the heroic brothnrs in the London attacks ... provided great lessons to tlw Islamic nation and Muslims in Pakistan to oppose the infidels." said al-Zawahri, who was shown wearing a white turban and speaking to someone who was interviewing him olT-eamera. 
The attacks also killnd the four bombers. 
"This blnssnd attack rnvnaled thn real hypocritical face of the West," said grey­bPardnd al-Zawahri. who wore a black vest ovnr a whitl\ shirt. 
A spokeswoman for London's MPtropolitan Police said she had no imme­diatn eom11wnl on al-Zawahri's tape. 
Al-Zawahri also challenged the lngitimaey of Afghanistan's parlia11wntary nlnctions on Sunday. saying they were lwld "undnr llw lnrror of thn lords of war," an apparent ref­nrnncn to thn country's government. 
Thn election refnronen suggested thn tape was madn rncenlly. AI-Jazeera showed live minut1~s of it. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. invites China to join G-7 talks 
WASIIINGTON -The Bush administration, fudng growing unhappiness in Congress over Amerka's soaring trade del1eit with China, will get a chanee this week to present its con­ennis to top Chinese economic oflieials. 
Both Finance Minister Jin Henqing and Zhou Xiaehuan, the head of China's eentral bank, have bonn invitml to attend a luncheon meet­ing on Friday where Treasury Secretary John Snow and Fedora! HP.servn Chairman Alan <;rmmspan will snrve as hosts. 
Tlw discussions will be part ol' a gathering that the world's seven rkhest industrial coun­trillS will bo holding to get tlw views of China and lilllr other major developing countries ­llussia. India. Brazil and South Afriea. 
In announeing the invitations to China and the other countries on Monday, Treasury spoknsman Tony Fratto refused to go into dotails about what topics would be discussed. 

NASA estimates $104 billion mission 
CAPE CANAVEHAL -NASA estimated Monday it will cost $104 billion to return astronaul<i to the moon by 20 I X in a new roc·.ket that combines the spac~n shuttlo with the capsule of an earlier NA~A nra. 
NASA Administrator Michanl (;rillin, in unveil­ing tho nnw lunar exploration plan announced by l'rnsidcmt Bush last year, said he is not seeking nxlra money and stressed that the space agcmey will live within iL'i futuro budgeL'i to achieve this goal. 
lin dismissed suggestions that reeonstruetion of tlw Cull' Coast in the wake of Hurricane Katrina might derail the program first outlined by President Bush in 2004. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Sheriff challenges Katrina vote 
EVANSVILLE -A Democrat challenger criti­c~izml Hop. .John llostnttlnr on Monday lilr cast­ing a "lonely" votn against tho $51.X billion llurrkane Katrina aid package that cleared Congress with bipartisan support. 
Vandnrburgh County Shnrill' Brad Ellsworth said lloslelllnr failml his constituents by not explaining why he voted against a bill that had support from the White I louse and both parties. 
"When our muntry WlL'i in trouble, lm ca<>t a voln and w1mt into hiding," Ellsworth said dur­ing a news eonli~nmee with Hep. St1my lloyc~r of Maryland, tlw No. 2 DnmmTat in the I louse, at an IL'isistnd living center in Evansville. 
CHINA 


Talks show promise of peace 
North Korea suggests disarming nuclear programs in exhange for energy aid 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -North Korea 
agreed Monday to dismantle 
nuclear weapons and its 
atomic facilities in exchange 
for energy aid, economic 
cooperation and security 
assurances, a breakthrough 
that marked a first step 
toward disarmament al'ter 
two years of six-nation talks. 
The chief U.S. envoy 
praised the development as 
a "win-win situation" and 
"good agreement for all of 
us." But he promptly urged 
Pyongyang, which also 
agreed to international 
inspections, to make good 
on its promises by ending 
operations at its main 
nuclear facility at Yongbyon. 
"What is the purpose of 
operating it at this point?" 
said Assistant Secretary of 
State Christopher llill. "The 
time to turn it ofl' would be 
about now." 
Despite the deal's poten­
tial to help significantly ease 
friction between the North 
and the United States after 
years of false start<> and set­
backs, Hill remained cau­
tious. 
"We have to see what 
comes in the days and 
weeks ahead," he said. DPRK. 
President Bush called it a 
North Korea's chief negotiator Kim Gye Gwan applauds at the close of talks held In Beijing
positive step, but he 
expressed some skepticism Monday. This week's agreement is the biggest breakthrough In two years of negotiations. 
about whether North Korea 
will live up to it<> promises. begin, officials attending the as possible. goal of the six-party talks is 
"They have said -in talks said. "The earlier we go back, the verifiable denudeariza­
principle -that they wiU "Agreeing to a common the better," said Mohamed tion of the Korean Pnninsula 
abandon their weapons pro­document does not mean E!Baradei, head of the in a peaceful manner," the 
grams," Bush said. "And that the solution to our International Atomic Eneq.,ry statement said. 
what we have said is, problems has been found," Agency. Hesponding to 
'Great. That's a wonderful said Japan's chief envoy, Hill and other envoys said Pyongyang's claims that it 
step forward.' But now Kenichiro Sasae. the timetable for inspections needs atomie weapons l'or 
we've got to verify whether Another Japanese oflicial, had not yet been set, defense, North Korea and 
that happens." who spoke on condition he although they want compli­the United States plc~dged to 
"The question is, over not be named in order to ance as soon as possible. respect each othnr's sovlw­
time will all parties adhere discuss the issue more According to a joint state­eignty and right to pnaenful 
to the agreement," Bush freely, noted that there was ment issued at the talks' coexistem~o. and also to take 
said. no common understanding conclusion, the North "com­steps to normalizn relations. 
The agreement clinched among the participants mitted to abandoning all "The United States 
seven days of talks aimed at about the nature of North nuclear weapons and exist­affirmed that it has no ·setting out general princi­Korea's nuclear program. ing nuelear programs and nuelear weapons on the ples for the North's disarma­The head of the U.N. returning at an early date" Korean Peninsula and has ment. Envoys agreed to nuclear nonproliferation to the Nuelear no intention to attack or return in early November to agency welcomed North Nonproliferation Treaty and invade [North Kornal with bngin hashing out details of Korea's decision to allow International Atomic Energy nuclear or conventional how that will be done. inspections, saying he hoped Agency safeguards. weapons," aceording to the 
Then, the hard work of his experts could take the "The six parties unani­statement, in assurances 
ensuring compliance will country at its word as soon mously reallirmed that the echoed by South Korea. 
Stem cells may repair spinal cord 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Injections of human stem cells seem to directly repair some of the damage caused by spinal cord injury, according to research that helped partially par­alyzed miee walk again. 
The experiment, reported Monday, isn't the first to show that stem cells ol'f'er tantalizing hope for spinal cord injury -other sci­entists have helped mice recover, too. 
But the new work went an extra step, suggesting the connections that the stem cells form to help bridge the damaged spinal cord 
are key to reeovery. 
Surprisingly. they didn't just form new nerve cells. They also formed cells that create the biolog­ical insulation that nerve fibers need to communicate. A number of neurological diseases, such as mul­tiple selerosis, involve loss of that insulation, called myelin. 
"Tho actual eells that we trans­planted, the human cells, are the ones that are making myelin," explained lead researcher Aileen Anderson of the University of California, Irvine. "We're extreme­ly excited about these cells." 
The research is reported in Monday's. issue of Proceedings of 
the National Academy of Sciences. 
Stem cnlls are building blocks that turn into different types of tis­sue. Embryonic stem eells in par­ticular have made headlines recently, as scientists attempt to harness them to regnneratn darn­aged organs or other body parts. They're essentially a blank slate, able to turn into any tissun givnn the right biochemical instructions. 
But they're not thn only typn of stem cell. Anderson and collnaguns used fetal nnural stem cells. a typn that are slightly morn dnvnloped than nmbryunic stem cells bncausn they're dnstined to makn cnlls for the central nervous system. 
page 6 The Obse;ver + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 20, 2005 

Dow 
10,557.63 -84.31
}ones ... 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I .062 I 52 ~0 2,079,408,730 
AMEX 1.729.44 +8.12 NASDAQ 2,145.26 -15.09 NYSE 7,611.89 -34.4Q S&PSOO I ,231.02 -6.89 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 12.958.50 o.oo"] 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,429. 70 +21.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R(SIRI) -4.96 -0.35 6.70 NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) -0.79 -0.31 39.09 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.27 -0.07 26.00 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -1.36 -0.25 18.17 SIEBEL SYSTEMS (SEBL) -0.29 -0.03 I 0.27 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.26 -0.12 45.43 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.35 -0.15 42.47 5-YEAR NOTE -0.62 -0.25 40.21 3-MONTH BILL +0.91 +0.31 34.40 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +4.39 67.39 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +7.10 470.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.45 80.85 
Exchan e Rates 
YEN 111.5950 EURO 0.8237 POUND 0.5549 CANADIAN$ 1.1680 
IN BRIEF 
Crude prices continue to climb 
NEW YOHK -Crude-oil futures surged more than $4 -the biggest one-day price jump ever -amid worries that Tropical Storm Hila strengthening off the Bahamas could hit U.S. oil facilities in the Gulf of Mexieo later this week, striking another blow at an industry struggling to recover from llu rrieann Katrir\a. 
Thn swells in crudn. lwating oil and gasoline futures camn as OPEC ministers met to dis­euss how lo rnlinvn priee pressures in the oil marknt and expressnd concern that Hita would bear down on the hurricann-ravaged 
U.S. Gulf Coast. 
Benchmark light, swncl crude for October dnlivnry rose $4.39, or 7 percent, to settle at $67.:~9 a barwl on the New York Mercantile Exchangn. 
Nymnx <:rude -still more than $3 ofT its all­limn high of $70.85 hit briel1y on Aug. 30 after Katrina hit the Gulf-had fallen $1.75 . on Friday lo its lowest dosing price since Aug. 5 
llnating oil surgnd more than 20 cents to $2.0384 a gallon. while gasoline rose nearly 26 ennts to $2.0427 a gallon. 
Brnnt crude for October delivery l"ose $3.80 to $65.61 on London's International Petroleum Exchange. 
Orthopedic plant to open in Ind. 
FOHT WAYNE-A company that makes sur­gical instruments and orthopedic products plans to open a plant in the eity that eould create up to IhO jobs. 
Ollkials for Nemeomnd said the city's work f'orn~ and transportation infrastructure helpr~d convincn them it was lhn best plaen to build its $10 million, 34,000-square-f'oot plant. 
!\bout I60 orthopndies production jobs will bn crnalnd within l'ivn ynars in Fort Wayne lhal the company olhnrwise would havn locat­ed in nnarby Warsaw or it hnadquarters in llieksvilln, Ohio. of'l'icials said Monday. 
Tlw plant will open in fall 200h and employ 20 to 40 pnopln by the nnd of' nnxt ynar. Its snvnn-aern location in a business park next to lnlnrstaln h<J will provide space for expansion, and Nnmeonwd plans lo add 20,000 square f'nnl in 2009. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 


Tyco chief officials sentenced 
Former CEO, CFO face up to 25 years in prison for stealing, abusing power 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Former 
Tyeo CEO L. Dennis 
Kozlowski was sentenced 
Monday to up to 25 years 
in prison for looting the 
company of hundreds of 
millions of dollars, the 
elimax of a ease of execu­
tive greed replete with 
tales of a $6,000 gold­
threaded shower curtain 
and a $2 million 
Mediterranean birthday 
party. 

Kozlowski, 58, was led out of the courtroom in handcuffs as his wife qui­etly sobbed from a bench three rows back. lie will be eligible for parole aftnr eight years and four months behind bars in a state prison in New York. 
Tyco's former l'inance chief Mark Swartz, 44, received tlw same sen­tence, and state Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus ordered the defen­dants to pay a total of $134 million in restitu­AP 
Former Tyco CEO Dennis Kozlowski arrives for sentencing in New York Monday. He and
tion to Tyeo International 
former CFO Mark Swartz were convicted and fined a total of $105 million.
Ltd. In addition, the judge lined Kozlowski $70 mil­lion, and Swartz $35 mil­tation has been tar­pany that emerged from Kozlowski's lawy11r lion. nished, but his life should bankruptcy as MCI Inc. Stephen Kaufman and 
Assistant District not be destroyed." The founder of Adelphia Swartz attornny Charlns Attorney Owen Heimer But the prosecutor said Communications Corp., Stillman said they would asked the judge for the the defendants should be John Rigas, was sen­apply for bail for their maximum sentence of 30 properly punished for tenced to 15 years in elients as promptly as years, saying Kozlowski stealing $180 million out­prison for his role in the thny eould. Neither would had "committed theft and right, and improperly looting and fraud at the comment further about fraud on an unprecedent­made hundreds of mil­cable TV company. His the appeals process. ed, staggering scale." He lions more through son and former finance The sentencns cap a said Kozlowski and manipulations of Tyco's chief, Timothy Rigas, got case that may be best Swartz stole so much stock. 20 years. remembered for its tales from the company that "This exceeds anything Enron Corp. founder of executive greed and "Tyco became a world­ever prosecuted in this Kenneth Lay, former CEO excess, most notably the wide symbol of klepto­state," Heimer said. Jeffrey Skilling and for­$6,000 shower curtain in cratic management." Kozlowski and Swartz mer top Enron account­an $18 million Manhattan 
Kozlowski pleaded with join a line of other execu­ant Richard Causey are apartment. In two trials the judge to be as tives sentenced to prison expected to go to trial in -the first nndnd in a "lenient as possible" and for lengthy stints after January. mistrial last year ­to consider "all the posi­white-collar scandals that Unlike WorldCom and jurors took a video tour tive things I have done in outraged the public. Enron, Tyco survived the of the apartment that was my life." Former WorldCom scandal. Tyco, which has furnished for nnarly $20 
llis lawyer, Stephen E. Chairman Bernard about 250,000 employees million and caught scenes Kaufman, read from let­Ebbers was sentenced to and $40 billion in annual from a $2 million birth­ters written on his 25 years in prison for the revenue, makes electron­day party for Kozlowski's client's behalf and said, $11 billion accounting ics and medical supplies wife on the "He's a good man. He's a fraud that toppled the and owns the ADT home Mediterranean island of decent person. His repu-telecommunications com-security business. Sardinia. 

High gas prices affect cab drivers 
Associated Press Cabbies squeezed by high fuel costs increased so much, so fast. Baltimorn 
have been asking regulators around raised fares in late June. Los Angnles 
NEW YORK -Looking to top off the country to authorize fare increas­officials are close to approving a 10 his tank at the start of another shift, es or temporary surcharges to help percent hike, plus surcharges of 50 Frederic Valmord eased his taxi into them restore profits lost at the cents to $1, depending on tlw price of a West Side gas station and gingerly pumps. fuel. squeezed the pump. Five gallons cost Their appeals began months ago, Chicago cab driver Chulam Malik him $16. but have intensified since Hurricane said faro adjustments are sorely 
Valmord shook his head. Katrina crippled refining capacity in nended. 
Like most New York cabbies, he is the United States, driving prices In recent weeks, hn said has been an independent operator who leases above $3 a gallon. spending an extra $10 to $15 pnr his taxi for between $105 and $129 a A handful of cities have already shift on gasoline, dnspite trying to day. Puel costs him another $35, grantf~d some relief. conserve fuel by spending morn timn meaning he somntimes spends hours Washington, D.C.'s taxi commission waiting by hotnls and airports, whnrn hustling for fares before hn makes a voted this month to allow drivers lo he can turn his engine ofT, and less dime. charge an extra $1.50 per trip for at time G!'uising for passnng<~rs. 
On his worst days, he goes home lnast the next four months. Thn sur­"That's $330, $:mo a month from from his 12-hour shift with as little charge replaced an earlier $1 fee put my prolit," he said. as $60 in his pocket. in plaen in May. Chicago's City Council approvnd a 
"It can happen," said thn 62-year­Philadelphia off'icials approved a 12 percent faro inernasn in May, but. old Yalmord, a eab driver since 1976. 30-cent-per-mile hike in July, and highnr fuel priens have since wipnd "This is about as bad as it has ever are now contemplating an additional out tiH~ raise. Now. drivnrs want a $1 boon." surcharge beca.use gas p.rices have surehargn. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, September 20, 2005 

ND profs debate European Union's future 
By COLLEEN SHULA News Writer  federal and economic aspects was the main reason the referen­dums failed to pass.  budget surveillance of member countries. Waller said these eco­nomic reasons made him doubt  pass, Carozza said it created a substantive list of rights that were extraordinarily ambitious,  convinced both countries to refrain from approving the con­stitution. He disagreed with  
"There's a fear in Old Europe  the possibility of future integra­ some of which were not even  Waller's views and said that the  
Three Notre Dame professors  of having  a  New  tion.  recognized by individual coun­ success of integration has never  
debated the possibility for fur­ Europe determine  Carozza agreed  tries that were already members  been about issues of economics  
ther integration of the European  policy," said Waller,  "Further  with Waller about  or considering membership.  but rather of politics, security  
Union at a roundtable discussion Monday. Political science professor  who believed France and The Netherlands' rejec­ integration is a process that will  the unlikelihood of future integration, calling the possibili­ Carozza said the European Union Constitution is not faithful to the original vision of Europe  and peace. Messina said the future of the European Union could vary  
Anthony Messina, law professor Paolo Carozza and economics and econometrics professor Chris  tion of -the European Union Constitution was  require education in humanity.,,  ty "bleak." However, he used human rights con­ or capable of making countries aware of the need for self-sacri­fice to achieve unity out of diver­ between staying at status quo, unraveling and ultimately being destroyed or reviving for further  
Waller discussed their views and skepticisms concerning the addi­ ultimately a rejec­tion of the idea of a  Paolo Carozza  cerns as a critical explanation for his  sity. "Further  integration  is  a  integration with policy harmo­nization.  
tion of new countries to the European Union after referen­ federal Europe. He also said eco­ law professor  argument. He said  many  process that will require educa­tion in humanity," Carozza said.  "One thing I've learned is how progress can be made out of set­ 
dums to ratify a new European  nomics plays a sig­ countries  were  Messina said the popular anxi­ backs,"  Messina  said.  "The  
Union Constitution failed in both  nificant role in turning many  deterred  from  joining  the  ety about domestic unemploy­ European Union always seems to  
France and The Netherlands last  countries  away  from  the  European Union after its attempt  ment in France, resentment  fmd a way."  
spring.  European Union due to their  to  pass  a  Charter  of  towards its budget policies in  
Waller  said  apprehension  skepticism of the 1997 Stability  Fundamental Rights in 2001.  The Netherlands and fears of  Contact Colleen Shula at  
toward the European Union's  and Growth Pact that allows  Although the charter did not  enlargement and immigration  cshula@nd.edu  

Tailgates 
continued from page 1 
tion was issued at Legends. Johnson did not know Monday if any of the citations or arrests involved Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students. 
Johnson said the citations were issued "mostly in the park­ing lots." 
The four people arrested were taken to St. Joseph County Jail, Johnson said. 
Johnson could not say how many total NDSP officers were present, but he said NDSP used a mix of plain-clothes and uni­formed officers. 
"Most officers were readily identified," said Johnson, who noted that any officers not in uniform quickly showed a badge when "interacting" with people in the parking lots. 
Johnson said officers used pre­liminary breath tests (PBTs) "to help decide if [people] need to be in custody for their safety." 
No probable cause is needed to administer a PBT, Johnson said. 
He said the likely reasons that police used PBTs on Saturday were "consumption" and "smell." Behavior and blood alcohol level (BAC) were the fac­tors used to determine whether to issue a citation or make an arrest. 
"It's the officer's discretion" whether to issue a citation or an arrest, Johnson said. 
Johnson said NDSP was aided on Saturday by the County Sheriff, Indiana Excise Police and South Bend Police. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

stringent policy, Gagnon said. "It's hard to explain to an 18­

Ejections 
year-old who's concerned with the here and now, but when
continued from page 1 
you're responsible for the safety prohibits such actions because and welfare of [a stadium full of of recent innovations. people], you have a different 
"It escalated when people mindset." started putting substances in Gagnon also said the exces­the marshmallows sive marshmallow to make them go throwing serves to 
"Drinking was up,
farther," Gagnon guise more dan­said. "It ended up but that usually gerous objects hurting other peo­happens when the that pose an even ple, so we've greater threat. 
game is at 2 :JO. ,,
drawn the line at "It's hard to throwing things." detect what's When marsh­Cappy Gagnon being thrown mallows began director of stadium when hundreds of 
striking people people are throw­
personnel
outside the stu­ing things," dent section -Gagnon said. "It's including players, NBC camer­hard to see who's throwing apersons and fans in the Gold objects like beer cans." Seats -stadium security was Between 10 and 12 students forced to implement a more were thrown out of the stadium for alcohol-related offenses Saturday, Gagnon said. 
"Drinking was up, but that usually happens when games are at 2:30," he said. 
Gagnon said security person­nel applied a "zero tolerance" policy if students possessed an alcoholic container or manifest­ed the symptoms of intoxica­tion, such as passing out, falling down, slurring words or acting belligerently. 
Despite isolated behavioral issues, Gagnon said the stu­dents were, for the most part, well-behaved. 
"It was a wonderful game and an enjoyable experience," Gagnon said. "We have the best student body in the country, and I've got no complaints -just a job to do." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 



Everything you need for high-speed Internet access. 
Sign up for the SBC Student Plan SBC Yahoo! DSL Express + Your local Access line 
as low as 
$ 
75* 
a month for a g-month term! 
•other monthly charges apply. 

Taxes, other charges and the Federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. For details of additional charges, restrictions and requirements, call 1-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.comlu. SBC, the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, L.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. ©2005 SBC Knowledge Ventures, L.P. All rights reserved. IN 

Tuesday, September 20, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
the chance of poisoning some­one to death?" Nash said, referring to Chad Sharon, a member of the elass of 2006 who disappean~d in Doe. 2002 and whose body was lilllnd in Feb. 2003. 
Puzzello, whose distriet bor­ders Notre Dame, denied the new legislation was targeted at students. Two weekends ago, police cited a family for noise violations at a raucous house party, she said. 
"It's about wholm]evnr keeps people up at 1 a.m. in the morning with shouting and loud noises," she said. 
Leito asked if a party would be labeled as excessively loud based on an actual decibel level or if judgment depended on ollicers at the scene. 
"If the police officer can hear noise from half a block away, it is too loud," Puzzello said. "We're talking about something that will keep peo­ple awake, especially after normal nighttime hours like ten o'elock." 
An upcoming public hearing will clarify how loud is too loud, Nash said. 
Many students were both­ered not only by the ordi­nance's content but also its summer passage. 
"It just seems incomprehen­sible to me that a city would pass a law that a11'eets a group of people while that group is not there to discuss it," Leito said. 
Puzzello acknowledged thl'l complaint and apologiwd to the student body. The eity wanted to pass the ordinance before students returned, but its intention was to have the bill in el'fect before parties began in August, she said. 
"I really am sorry about that," she said. "I didn't think about that point of view. It would have been a good thing to have you present and have your voice in it." 
Leito argued the value of student input would have sur­passed the importance of enforcing the ordinance a month or two sooner. 
Baron said South Bend com­munity members had accused Notre Dame students of immoral behavior at the amendment's summer hear­ing, an image he wished to change. 
"That's why the Community Relations Committee has been made, to show you that we're not sex-crazed, drug-abusing criminals," Baron said of a particular accusation. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle 1 @nd.edu 
Soccer 
continued from page I 
advertisements can be seen in the dining halls in thn days lead­ing up to each home game. At the Dd>aul game, the first 100 fans were given a free Gold Games T-shirt. Jones said they use the oll'er of long-sleeve shirL'i and other "unique, upscale pro­motions to draw more fans." The Promotions Ollice also uses radio, television and newspaper to advertise not only to studenl'i but also to South Bend rnsidenl'i. 
Bridget Hanrahan, a senior who has worked at tho games li>r sevnral years selling mr.rchan­dise, said there has been an increase in attendanee since thP women won tho championship. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
esc 
continued from page 1 
"We worn averaging about 600 van rnntals a month," Basile said. "StudenL'i worn using thmn prob­ably :w to 40 times a wnek. It was gntting insanely high." 
This ynar, thn CSC has oneour­agnd studnn ts to usn Transpo busns to got to and from service !Wnnl'i. But that's nasinr said than donn, Cirdn K president mnoritus .lnnni lleissnl said. 
"As a university, we have so rnueh money to spend," lleissel said. "We ean't li>rk out the small amount it's going to eost to make service available for all the stu­denL'i'!'' 
What's worse, llcissel said, is that Circle K wasn't told about the new van policy until mid­summer -months alhw service projects had benn planned and the budg11t approved. 
"Wn had to ehange the service 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 

project times to lit in with the bus sehndule," Beissel said. "We had a list of all the service projects done in May. By August, we had time times set up, but they didn't toll us about the fee until a week and a half before school started." 
Paladino said even the CSC did not get the final word on the Transpo agreement until late in the summer. 
"We worked with Transpo through the previous student government," Paladino said. "At the bnginning of the summer it looked like it would happen. Then negotiations !with Transpo] stalled, and we didn't hear until three weeks before school started that it was a go." 
Notre Dame's Circle K chapter is the largest Cirele K organiza­tion in the world, but lleissel and Teitgen feared their numbers might start shrinking because of the inconvenience associated with the Transpo sehedules. 
"People do Circle K because of its convenience," Heissel said. "If we don't have that, obviously our numbers are going to shrink. It's taking longer to get to the desti­nation than to actually do the service work. It's ridiculous that lwei spend more time traveling than doing service." 
Basile said the bus route will take time to get used to. 
''I'm sure there are going to be setbacks," Basile said. "There are going to be issues where students don't get there, get lost or are on the bus longer than expected." 
Ileissel was not optimistic about the new plan to use Transpo instead of CSC vans. 
"I think this is a major prob­lem," Beissel said. "With the way the bus system is set up, there is automatically a 25-minute wait built in. Service is a huge part of people's lives here and without that ability to get to service proj­ects quickly, I don't know what we're going to do." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
COR 
continued from page I 
lueky you are not in jail." 
Judicial Council president James Leito countered that students were not lucky to be left without a home and asked why drinking tiekets were not sufficient punishment. 
"If we continue to have Turtle Creek as .a mecca for underage drinking, it will hap­pen year after year and year," Nash said. "We have to address the faet that there are property owners and occu­pants who are facilitating this activity." 
She noted that eviction pro­ceedings have always been an available defense in the drug house ordinance, which was passed along with the original disorderly house ordinance. 
"How many chances do you think you should have to take 


The positive effect of beginning your career with Ernst &Young is too great to measure. 
Agreat start can take you further. At Ernst & Young we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. And what we're offering is an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. Become a benchmark for success. Visit us on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers, or look for us on campus. 

~------------~------------------,---~­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, September 20, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Stop voting for the Republicrats 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN'46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SroRTs EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRA!'HICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574} 631-7471 
FAX 
(574} 631-6927 

ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers'. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directedto Editor in ChiefCW.ire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th~ Observer {USPS '5991-4000) i5 published Mond;~.y through Friday c:xcept dudng exam :utd vac;ation ~riods. Asubscription to The Ob'iCrvcr isc $100 forunt academic year: $SS for une semester. 
The Observer is publi~hl!d at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining HaU Send addrC$ Cc)fftlcdom ro: Notre Dame. IN 46S56.0779 The Observer Periodical postage pJ.id at Notre Dame ro.&,n9 and .addit~n:ll m:liling offices. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Ncm~ Dame, IN 465-s&-0779 
Tht Observer is a member ofthe ~1c:d Pn:ss. AU repmduaicn righu art r~vcd. 
. TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Maddie Hanna Mike Gilloon 
Heather Chris Khorey Van Hoegarden Kyle Cassily Marcela Berrios Scene 
Viewpoint Mark Becca Rosswurm Bemendenfer Graphics Kelly MacDonald 
Before you read this column, I want you to take a brief quiz. Of the two major candidates in the 2004 presiden­tial election, which one: supported the passage of the Patriot Act and the mas­
sive extensions of  
government surveil­ 
lance power that  
came with it; support­ 
ed military action  
against Iraq, despite  
limited or no connec­ 
tion between Saddam  
Hussein and the Sept.  
11 terrorist attacks; Scott 
supported increased  
Wagnerfederalization of state  
education; was a self- Live and Let  
described "fiscal con- Live or Die  
servative"; and sup­ 
ported spending hun­ 

dreds of millions of dollars of taxpayer money on abortion-on-demand? 
If you said "both George W. Bush and John Kerry," you are absolutely right! You are one of very few voters who· actually pays attention to the left hands of politicians while they're holding babies in their right. 
While much of the nation has appar­ently become "polarized," the politi­cians representing these supposedly different ideologies have snuggled even closer together. The favorite word of the McCain/Feingold era has become "bipartisanship," which is a delightfully sneaky buzzword that basically trans­lates to: "we barely even disagree any­more." 
So peopie continue voting along these continually blurring party lines. In the 2004 election, 62 million people voted for Bush and 59 million voted for Kerry, supposedly indicating that the nation is split right down the middle. Of course, 121 million people is only 55-60 per­cent of eligible voters, so it is actually slightly more than half of Americans who are "polarized." 
Why is it this way? 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
According to a September, 2004 Gallup poll, many Americans voted for Bush because of his "good moral val­ues," while people voted for Kerry because they wanted "to get Bush out of office." Both of these reasons are asinine, and I hope that is obvious. 
Most left-wingers did not care that Kerry wanted to send even more troops to Iraq than Bush; they did not care that he voted for the Patriot Act and tried throughout his career to expand the FBI's power to invade the cyber-pri­vacy of Americans. None of these issues mattered, simply because they wanted Bush out of office. It makes no sense. 
On the other hand, the majority of right-wing Catholics on this campus are also oblivious to the fact that their once Grand Old Party has taken on decidedly more left-wing policies. Of course, there was that wonderful tax cut, which was promptly followed by $2 tril­lion in spending that had to come from somewhere (our children? Our grand­children? Newly-freed Iraqis?). Party loyalty has become more important than principles, and I believe it is because of one very dangerous word: Abortion. 
Why is the average conservative Notre Dame student content to ignore the big-government welfare-warfare state of the Bush administration? Because somewhere in the Hepublican Party's platform is some anti-abortion rhetoric, and Republican politicians do their best to pay lip service to it. It is the only real issue that still divides the two major parties, at least in the minds of nai've voters. 
However, consider the following: Planned Parenthood is the nation's number one provider of abortions, and it receives much of its funding from American taxpayers in the form of bloated government programs such as Medicaid and Title X. This year's mas­sive Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill included over $250 million for abortion-on-demand, and­as he has not vetoed a single bill in five years -was signed by President George W. Bush. 
I'm sure many left-wingers are rejoicing in this fact, which makes my point perfectly. 
The fact of the matter is that 
Republicans may talk tough about 
abortion during the election cycle, and 
most of you may buy it; but when it 
comes to standing up for the supposed 
ideals of the GOP, almost all of them 
come up very, very short. 
Let me be clear: I am only "pro-life" insofar as I believe Federal spending on abortion is completely unconstitutional. However, I also believe there is no blanket solution to the abortion ques­tion and therefore I do not support laws against it, so I suppose that makes me "pro-choice." My goal in writing this article is merely to show that sin­gle-issue voting is not only ignorant, it is also assumes inter-party distinctions that barely even exist. 
Even a vote for the lesser of two evils 
is still a vote for evil. 
Albert Einstein defined insanity as "doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results." Most of the country voted Democratic in 1992 and 1996, and we saw an offensive war in the Balkans and an ever-increasing national debt. The nation voted Republican in 2000 and 2004, and we saw an offensive war in Iraq and an ever-expanding budget deficit. 
It is time to stop the insanity. Stop voting for the Hepublierats. 
Scott Wagner is the president ofthe 
brand new College Libertarians Club .and writes political satire for the Web 
site The Enduring Vision. He can be 
contacted at swagnerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
How many inaugural events are you planning to attend? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
Submit aLetterI 
"AbilitY. is what you're 
canable oJ doing. Motivation 
iletermznes what you do. 
Attitude determines how well 
to·tbe·Eiliior·at I 
you do it." 
Lou Holtz

www.ndsmcobservef.com ,, 
Football coach 
11 

====~~ifw.~ ..·.····='· ·=·:=f:·=·,::·:·,:,:,:~D·:\:=:===========~::::;:::::h~==~¥f@fflff.0W®WM~V·'· 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Tuesday, Seprembcr 20, 2005 
page I I 

lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Coping with stress in the aftermath of Katrina 
DisappointiTient in team 
In rewnt weeks I have n~ad letters in The Obs1~rver expressing dL'igust and embarrass­nwnt rPgarding tlw behavior of the studnnts, alumni and fims during our visits to l'itL-;burgh and Ann Arbor. I was very proud to be part of the Notre Dame community dur­ing tlu• Michigan State game and thought. that lims of both schools behaved very sports­man-like. 
Unlill't.unately, after the ganw my emotions immediately turned to anger and frustration. I wa.<; not disappointNI in the loss or the dlin'l the team exuded. I wa.<> not angry at the Spartans l'or celdJrating their victory. I wa.<> not embarrassed by the behavior of anyone in the student section. I wa.'i however incredibly disappointed in the behavior of the team aflPr the game. 
Notl'f) I>a me is a place that prides iLo;elf on tradition, respect, will and perseverance. The raising of the golden helmeL'i to the student section is a dL-;play of respect and a tradition that shows the solidarity ofstudents and athletns that is hard to lind at other institutions. Tlwre are no names on the backs of our players li>r the same reason that those players raise their helnwL'i to their fellow classmates -we are all part of the same family. 
The fans stood by the team throughout the game only to be abandoned at the last monumt. At lea.-;t half of the team walked directly into the tunnel. and those that did stay and raise tlwir lwlnwts did so in a seemingly purely obligatory way. The teai11, as a team, shows their thanks to their da.'ismates before walking into the tunnel, wltile the students and alumni stay until the Alma Mater is played, swaying arm in arm for the same reason. ThL-; is IM:ause win or los!~. Notre Dame is a proud family. I guess the members of the foot­ball t!)illll li>rgot that Saturday. 
Daniel Pisaniello alumnus Sep[. 19 
The spirit lives 
No, this is not a viewpoint about which color or design of a shirt the students should wear to a football game. Although, I proudly wore the new design of "The Shirt" this past Saturday, each student has their own opinion about wha.t should b~ worn at the g~mes. In all honesty though, when "The Shirt" was revealed this past sprmg, I was surpnsed like many to learn the color was yellow. What wa.'i to become of the "Sea of G~een?". With the new color of"The Shirt," the sea of green could be no more.! was dtsappomted because it was what made the student body stand out among the thousands of people. It was what everyone had come to call the student section, but with.th~ n~~ color yellow, this phra.<>e could no longer be used. But there are greater tragedws m hie. 
Although Notre Dame lost to MSU, we saw the spirit live among the student body. Then I n~alized that it is not just the color of "The Shirt" or even the design that makes the studenL'i stand out. It's our energy. our passion for the game, and most of all, our spirit that makes us known nationally. Sure, it may be easier to spot us whe~ we all w.e~r the same color but what matters is how we contribute to the game by showmg our spmt, whether it's screaming so loud that we can't talk in class Monday morning or shushing the othnr ND fans to be quiet when the offense is on the field. 
When other student bodies might have left when their team was down 38-17 in the third quarter, we stayed till the end. Even after the game was over, we still st~o? proud in our sections and waited for the band to come onto the field so we could allJom togeth­er and sing the Nma Mater. Swaying left to right with my friends w~fle we a.n s~~g, I lin ally understood and appreciated what the quotes really me~n. on The Shtr~. The Sprit Uves. If you could lind a way to bottle the Notre Dame spmt, Y.ou could lrght up the 
universe." The Notre Dame spirit is bottled in the students and we lrght up the stadwm 
and the entire campus. The spirit lives through us .. It's ou~ job ~o kee~_}t alive.an?~' wh~t better way to remind us of this job then through this years des1gn of fhe Shtrt. So, tf you do Wl)ar "The Shirt" to football game.s .th.is year, wear it. proudly because we repre­snnt the spirit o_f Notre Dame. And the spmt IS now more ahve than ever. 
Brittany Mazur junior Lyons Hall Sep[. 19 
Choose your battles 
To all those concerned with The Shirt or the Candle Advertisnnwnt: 
This year, The Shirt was met with unprecndented controversy upon its releasP. The Observer has been !illed with articles and editorials condemning The Shirt. suggesting alternatives and encouraging students to take a stand on one sidn of tlw issue or the other. My response to this is: wear it or don't wear it, but does it really matter either way? 
The newest Notre Dame television advertisement, the Candle ad, has also caused a bit of controversy. Some people say they love it, some people say tlwy hate it. It represents the University, our University, yes, but it will be forgotten. Outside our bubble known as Notre Dame, I am sure the ad went nearly unnoticed. 
I truly believe that activism is a wonderful thing; standing up and sharing your opinions and beliefs, and even trying to get others to join in with you in your fight is noble. Giving people a reason get behind you and make a change is great; but it's just a shirt, and it's just an advertisement. . 
When picking battles, we must choose cautiously. We need to deduce ratiOnally the consequences of our actions and choose not to get caught up in inconsequen­tial debates. Would the issue that Jesus would have stood for have been over a shirt or an ad? There are so many worthy issues out there that we can light for. Why not light for something that direly needs our attention, such as the victims o.f the recent hurricane? Why is it that once we get here, we seem to get caught up Ill this Notre Dame bubble that prevents us from seeing how petty these issues really 
are? . 
So, I say to my fellow students: Stand up! Fight for what yo~ believe in! But 
please choose wisely; don't get blinded with what may seem hke an urgent matter 
now, but in the very near future may seem quite a bit less important. In the c:_nd, 
we will all receive a lot more satisfaction when we use our time and energy lrght­
ing for issues of a little more importance. 
Claire Sloss freshman McGlinn Hall Sept. I') 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
IF BUSH rsSO 16NORANT AND ~PArnmc 1~EH ·~ 
~:,)W'D ~fff 
fLECfED... 
1\~(t? 

No one who experiences a disaster can remain untouclwd by il. The dfects of llurricane Katrina are both hard to belinv1~ and to accept. The impact of this llurrica1w is particularly complicated when we think about the loss of lives, human suffering and physical d1wastation involved. It makes us all direct or incli­I"()Ct victims and survivors. llere in our own Notre Dame community we have many survivors who arn dealing with the psychological footprint of this disas­tnr in onn way or another. The University Counseling CPntnr offers its support to our ND students and also wnleomes students who have recently joined the ND community from schools in affected areas. 
At a tinw such as this, many of us may be dealing with the dil·ect impact of this tragedy on our families and friends and with the physical devastation of some of our honws or places familiar and dear to us. Some of us may IHH~d to bngin the journey of coming to ll~rms with tlw trag1)dy and to learn different ways to copn with our shock, grief and loss. Still others among us may not know where to start. It is impor­tant to r1)alizn that there is no correct way to feel or a right way to rPspond. The psychological impact can 
be complex and our own responses complicated. 
The mantra of disaster psychology is that the event 
is abnormal and not individuals' responses. It is 
important to understand that initial stress responses 
arc natural. The initial stress responses some of us 
may have experienced or are still experiencing are 
numerous; for example, physical responses such as 
feeling fatigue, startle reflex. headaches, sweating 
and gastro-intestinal problems arc common. 
Emotional responses such as fear, anger, guilt, anxi­
ety, reduced awareness, numbing, detachment, help­
lessness and hopelessness arc also to be expected. 
Other stress markers can include decreased concen­
tration. confusion, inability to remember important 
aspects of the trauma, problems with sleep and diet, 
social withdrawal, increased substance use and a 
general feeling of being overwhelmed. Self-care is 
recommended to be the first and foremost step to 
healthy coping. Some positive ways to cope include 
restful sleep, healthful eating, exercise, relaxation 
and practicing your spiritual or religious beliefs. ·Additionally, it may be important to maintain open 
communication with others and to seek out/form a support network. 
Although a majority of individuals who arn exposed to disasters return to pre-disaster functioning, Hurricane Katrina presents many of us with percepti­ble as well as unforeseen challenges. Many of our students may need to cope with psychological issues of grief and loss, and emotional and 11nancial issues associated with the devastation of some of our homes. The UCC extends its support and assistance for students who may need to address and cope with some of their unique psychological and cultural issues. 
If you are interested in joining a support group for students who have been affected by Hurricane Katrina, please call the University Counsnling Center at 631-7:n6. If you would like more information about us, you can also visit us at our Web site (http://www.nd.edu/-u~c/). We look forward to work­ing with our students. 
Mccra Murthi, M.S University Counseling Center ScpL I') 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 20, 2005 
RECIPE TIPS 
Tasty gridiron goodies 
1/3 cup old-fashioned oats By MAUREEN MALLOY 
1 teaspoon baking soda Scene Writer 
1/4 teaspoon salt 1 cup old-fashioned chunky peanut butter (about 9 ounces) 
As football season heats up, the only 1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar thing better than a big upset for your 1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room favorite team is a spread of great food to temperature munch on during the game. With college 1/4 cup honey and pro games dominating the better part 1large egg of the weekend and Monday nights, there 1 teaspoon vanilla extract are plenty of opportunities to have friends 5 ounces semisweet chocolate, coarsely over to enjoy some of these winning chopped recipes. Serve the artichoke bacon dip with lots of crusty bread or bagel chips, Mix flour, oats, baking soda and salt in and you're sure to have a hit that's medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat devoured before halftime. These kicked peanut butter, brown sugar, butter, honey, up chicken wings will keep hungry guests egg and vanilla in large bowl until well satisfied deep into the fourth quarter. blended. Stir dry ingredients into peanut Then you can then dish up a sweet fmale butter mixture in two additions. Stir in of peanut butter cookies and pumpkin chopped chocolate. Cover and refrigerate bread so your fans can go home happy no until dough is firm and no longer sticky, matter the game's outcome. about 30 minutes. Preheat oven to 350 
degrees Fahrenheit. Butter two heavyArtichoke Bacon Dip large baking sheets. With hands, roll one heaping tablespoonful of dough for each 
cup sour cream cookie into 1 3/4-inch-diameter ball.

cup mayonnaise Arrange cookies on prepared bakingcup Parmesan cheese, shredded sheets, spacing 2 1/2 inches apart. Bakecup medium cheddar cheese, shred cookies until puffed, beginning to brownded on top and still very soft to touch, about1 can Progresso artichoke hearts, 12 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets roughly chopped five minutes. Using metal spatula, trans­4 slices of cooked bacon, crumbled fer cookies to rack and cool completely.

tsp garlic powder (Can be made two days ahead. Store intsp salt airtight container at room temperature.)

tsp red pepper flakes Makes 27 cookies.

1 tsp lemon juice Recipe courtesy of Epicurious.com 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Combine ingredients into a Spiced Pumpkin Bread medium bowl and spread in a glass pie dish. Bake for 25-30 minutes until warm 3 cups sugar 
and bubbly. 1 cup vegetable oil 3large eggs
Parmesan Mustard Chicken Wings 
1 16-ounce can solid pack pumpkin 3 cups all purpose flour 1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter 1 teaspoon ground cloves 2 tablespoons Dijon-style mustard 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/8 teaspoon cayenne 1 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1 cup dried bread crumbs 1 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 20 chicken wings, wing tips cut off and 1 cup coarsely chopped walnuts discarded and the wings halved at the (optional)
joint Preheat oven to 350 degrees
In a shallow dish whisk together the Fahrenheit. Butter and flour two 9x5x3­butter, the mustard and the cayenne. In inch loaf pans. Beat sugar and oil in largeanother shallow dish combine well the bowl to blend. Mix in eggs and pumpkin. 
breadcrumbs, the Parmesan, the cumin, Sift flour, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, bak­salt and black pepper to taste. Dip the ing soda, salt and baking powder intochicken wings, a few at a time, in the but­another large bowl. Stir into pumpkinter mixture, letting the excess drip off. 
mixture in two additions. Mix in walnuts, Coat them with the crumb mixture and if desired. Divide batter equally between 
arrange them without touching in a 
prepared pans. Bake until tester insertedgreased shallow baking pan. Bake the into center comes out clean, about onechicken wings in the lower third of a pre­hour and ten minutes. Transfer to racksheated 425 degrees Fahrenheit oven for and cool ten minutes. Using sharp knife, :30 minutes. (If extra-crisp chicken wings cut around edge of loaves. Turn loaves are desired, turn the wings after 20 min­out onto racks and cool completely.
utes.) Serves six. 
Makes two loaves. 
Recipe courtesy of Epicurious.com 

Recipe courtesy of Epicurious.com 
Peanut Butter Cookies with Chocolate Chunks 
Contact Maureen Malloy at 1 1/2 cups unbleached all purpose flour mmalloyl@nd.edu 

DVD REVIEW 
'Undeclared' DVD perfect for college 

By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Few things in life are more terrify­
ing than going to college as a fresh­man. The sudden reversal of roles, from being a senior back to a lowly freshman, is a shock. Not to mention the fact that many people are now asking those all important questions, . such as what are the goals in life, the perfect job or at least, what is the 
intended major. 
For those who can relate, the per­
fect television series has arrived on 
DVD. 
The complete series of "Undeclared" 
is now available to purchase, and for 
many college students, there is no bet­
ter DVD to own. Created by Judd 
Apatow, the creator of the critically 
acclaimed series "Freaks and Geeks," 
the almost equally acclaimed and 
short-lived series "Undeclared" 
appeals to those who want to go to 
college for the social atmosphere and 
leave that pesky major undecided 
until later. 
As if it is not already obvious, the 
show centers on an incoming group of 
freshman. They live in a co-ed dorm, 
so the cast is a group of males and 
females who are in almost constant 
contact. They are a diverse lot,. filling 
almost every college stereotype. 
There is the sarcastic drinker, the 
handsome British guy who attracts 
girls using his accent, the insecure 
freshman who has panic attacks and 
the list goes on and on. However, they 
are presented in such a light that they 
don't feel like the tired, contrived 
stereotypes they really are. Its a trib­
ute to Apatow that he manages to 
work with such material, and still 
mangage to keep it engaging without 
crossing into recycled territory. The 
show constantly manages to remain 
fresh and innovative to the viewers. 
Part of this is due to 
the fact that each of the characters is a fully developed individual about whom the viewer grows to care as the season progresses. The progression of the indi­viduals feels natural. It is an evolution of char­acter that mirrors many instances found in the The neurotic freshman becomes more stable with her new life, growing to accept her surroundings with the help of her friends. 
The show is near perfect, a trait that does not carry over to DVD. The video is fairly standard, with the noticeable graininess that accompanies too many television shows. It looks as if it were being run from the local airwaves and not a technologically superior DVD. The sound is fortunately as good as could be expected, so the overall experience is enjoyable. 
The DVD was released through Shout! Factory, a production house known for its quality DVD transfers. The four disks that make up the release are packaged with a nice pres­entation. The actual features on the disk themselves are quite good as well, featuring a commentary for each of the 17 episodes. 
There arc some features that show how the actors were hired on the disk, with the addition of "Auditions" and "Hehearsals." Those two additions show some preliminary instances of the characters that the show would have, as the director hired actors who could create decent characters, instead of hiring specific actors to fit a particular role. 
The "Museum of Television & Radio Q&A" feature is good as well, running over an hour. It centers on the cast, crew and director as they discuss the show. Apatow keeps the conversation going and lively, with an honesty that is refreshing and welcome change of pace on any DVD. 
"Undeclared" has a place in the col·­lection of any college student. Its wit and relative humor can help cast a new light on those times during the college stay when things get too seri­ous. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, September 20, 2005 
page 13 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
ND Alumni Film Fest exhibits powerful films 
FTT department showcases award-winning films for students, alumni 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Sc,·nc Editor 
In the world of business. tho term "lwnr.hmarking" plays a vital roln. It allows analysts to look at similar organizations and compare them to tlwir own. 
Last Thursday, Notrn Dame l'ilm stu­dents were abln to do somo bench­marking of tlwir own. 
Four short f'ilms, ernatnd by Notre Damn alumni. WtH'O shown to a full tlwater for tlw ND Alumni Film Fest. Imaginative, pownrful and nxecuted to the standards onn oxpncts from such a prt>stigious Univnrsity, each of the alumni films earrwd an ovation once tlwy wnrt> cornplnted. 
Tnd Mandell, a film professor and the organizm· of tlw reunion, said, "I thought the film fest was a nice way to show off the Browning Cinoma to our alums who just arrived Thursday night." 
Tlw l'irst film screened that night was "Keys of Life," an award-winning film by alumni .Jeremy Hall (Class of I 1) I) !i l. It centnr n d around what appears to be tlw worst day in the lifo of an urban locksmith. It begins with a fight over a phone between the locksmith and his girlfriend, and it only spirals downward from there. 
. A JH~.we r fu I: ?~~~.vi n g pwt:n, Koys of Life has 

played in :{!i film festivals  '"Intelligent Life'  surgery is  a  generally  
around tho world. This typt> of success is not for­~>ign to ltall howover. In his current role as a  makes me laugh everytime I watch it. ll 's brilliant."  heart-moving experience, one that people should try not to miss given the chance.  
music video dirnctor, he  It is small wonder that  
has  won  numerous  Ted Mandell  it was yet another award  
awards for his music videos. lin has won such.  FTT Professor  winning film from Notre Dame alumni due to the  
awards as tlw MVPA Best  content alone. Indeed, it  

llip-llop Vidtw for his work on "Holl was an Official Selection of the 2002 Out" with Ludaeris in 2002. Sundance Film Festival, an Audience 
Tlw rwxt f'ilm to bo presented was Choice Award Winner of the 2001 "Dirty Old Town" by dirnctor .Justin Long Beach International Film Mitrlwll (Class of 199!i), an interest­Festival and was selected for the 2002 ing documentary on ND alumni Tt>d Amsterdam. International LPo (Class of 11JIJ4) and the Documentary Film Festival. 
Pharmacists, a music band. It was essentially focused on their perform­ance at Coney Island on .July 19, 2003, for the Third Annual Siren Music Festival. The film al1.ernated betwnen performances with the band and personal interviews with Leo, mixing music and dialogue to great effect. 
Creating docum1mtaries that mix music with dialogue is not a stranger to Mitchell though, as he had previ­ously directed "Songs for Cassavetes," a documentary on the West Coast punk underground. It was critically acclaimed when it was released and showcases Mitchell's talent to capture artists on film that remains true to its subject. 
The third film of the four scheduled to be shown was the emotionally charged "Trip to Tehuacan," directed and edited by Gina Vecchione (Class of 1997). The film was centered around the Mercy Outreach Surgical Team and their work in Mexico. They are a volunteer group that dedicates itself to filling the medical and surgi­cal needs to those in need around the world. 
"Trip to Tehuacan" is an incredibly touching picture, as it focused on the patients before and after their sur­geries. The film highlighted how the volunteers were helping people phys­
ically and mentally. 
Seeing the children post­
For those who attended, there was an extra treat that was not placed in the agenda. After "Trip to Tehuacan," Executive Producer Mike Nead (Class of 1991 l gave the festival watchers an added treat in the form of the first­time viewing for a yet-unreleased film. Produced by Indiewood Pictures titled "Fall Into Me," moviegoers should look for this quirky romantic­comedy after it hits distributionin the hopefully near future. 
The last film students and alumni saw was "Intelligent Life," an animat­ed short ereated by .Jeff Spoonhower (Class of 1999). The film revolves around a group of diminutive aliens and their experiments in the realm of' human humor. A hilarious film that spoofs everything from music videos to barbershop quartets, the film did not fail to evoke laughter from tho' audienee. 
'"Intelligent Life' makes me laugh every time I wateh it," Mandell said. "It's brilliant." 
Onee again, there is little surprisP that this animated short was also erit­ically received. It has been screennd in over !iO locations around the world, including the Cincinnati, the Tambay and the Vancouvnr Island film f'ests. 
Spoonhower and Nead wnrn both available and talknd about their respective films. Spoonhower in par­ticular gave some amusing and inter­esting bits of' trivia, namely that lw did all the voicos in tlw barlwrshop quartot himst>lf', and that tlw lwcklers !ward in the animated short wert• voiced by some of' his f'ellow collt•gp students. 
Nnad was also inlnn>sting in dis­c.ussing tlw trailer for his film "Fall Into Me." lin told the audinncn of' some of' thn difTicultins that cornn with producing movies, nanwly finding dis­tribution, among othnrs. Unf'ortunatnly, not all of' thn alumni we r e p r e s e n t to t a I k a b o u t t h t>i r rnspeetivn films. 
"1 had hopnd that both .lt~rPmy Hall ("Keys of Lif'n"l and .Justin Mitrlwll ("This Old Town"l would be able to talk about thnir films as wPII. But likP a f'c w a lu rn s who had pI a nrw d f'or weeks on bning at Nl>, t.lwir produc­tion schedulns prnvnntnd tlwm !'rom attending" Mandell said, "Still, wn had wonderful turnout. for a truly incredible weekend of events." 
l'he films shown last week worn good benchmarks to aim towards !'or the graduating film majors. While certainly not standard in the way benchmarks usually arn, they are films fitting for a Univnrsity sueh as Notre Damn. 

A locksmith learns about the Issues of life and how to deal with them In the short "Keys of Life." Directed by Jeremy Contact Mark Bemenderfer at Rail of the class of 1995, this award-winning film raises many questions about finding a purpose In life. mbemende@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, Seprember 20, 2005 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Boone puts Tribe one game closer to playoffs 
Walk-of!Crosby homer leads New York past Baltimore; Boston's AL East lead drops to one game after loss to Tampa Bay 
Associated Press card over the Yankees, who eight stellar innings and Alex beat Baltimore 3-2 Monday Rodriguez had an RBI single for 
Aaron Boone's clutch hit sent night. the surging Yankees, who have the surging Cleveland Indians Carl Everett homered in the won seven of eight and 11 of to another victory and one seventh off Rafael Betancourt 15. They began the night 1 1/2 game closer to the sliding (4-3) to give the White Sox a 5-games behind first-place Boston Chicago White Sox in the AL 4 lead. Paul Konerko's two-run, in the AL East and 1 1/2 back of Central. two-out double had capped a Cleveland in the wild-card race. 
Boone delivered a two-run, four-run fifth off Kevin Shuttled back and forth from two-out single in the eighth Millwood _ three of the runs Triple-A Columbus, Crosby inning Monday night, and the were unearned to tie the served as a pinch-runner and Indians cut the White Sox's game. defensive replacement most of one-time huge lead to 2 1/2 The teams play twice more at the year. But he has begun to games by rallying for a 7-5 vic­U.S. Cellular Field before clos­get semi-regular playing time tory. ing the season with three at recently because right fielder 
Boone, who homered earlier Jacobs Field. Gary Sheffield is nursing a to help the Indians build a 4-0 Down 5-4, the Indians rallied strained left thigh muscle and lead they couldn't hold, worked against Damaso Marte, who has been relegated to DH duty. 
his way out of an 0-2 hole and relieved with out in the eighth, The diminutive Crosby lined a single up the middle off walked Travis Hafner and gave stepped to the plate in the ninth Bobby Jenks to silence an elec­up a double to Victor Martinez. for his 72nd major league at­tric crowd of 35,748 at U.S. Marte (3-4) then fanned Ben bat this season and drove a 1-0 Cellular Field. Broussard for the second out pitch from Eric DuBose (1-3) The Indians trailed the White and was _replaced by rookie over the right-center fence _ 
Sox by 15 games after Chicago Jenks, whose fastball is nearly one of the Yankees' biggest hits swept a four-game series at 100 mph. ·all year. Jacobs Field from July 14-17, He pumped his fist as he and were still 14 behind in Yankees 3, Orioles 2 rounded first base and was early August. Rarely used reserve Bubba mobbed at the plate by gleeful 
But they've won 13 of their Crosby led off the bottom of the teammates. Then he came out last 14, including six straight, ninth inning with his first home for a curtain call. while the White Sox have lost run this season, giving the New It was Crosby's second extra­eight of 11 in what is ·turning York Yankees a victory Monday base hit and fifth RBI all year. It into a colossal collapse. night over the Baltimore also was his third hit of the 
Cleveland also maintained its Orioles. game _ he had a bunt single 1 1/2-game lead for the AL wild Chien-Ming Wang pitched and an infield single from the No. 9 spot in the lineup. Mariano Rivera (7-4) worked Rodriguez's RBI single put them home~ in the ninth but earned a perfect ninth for the win. on the board. his 38th save by striking out 
Throwing what scouts call a With the middle of the lineup Manny Hamirez to end the "heavy" sinker, Wang kept the coming up, New York figured to game. ball down all night and had take the lead. But Jason Giambi The Devil Rays chased starter Baltimore chopping one weak struck out before Sheffield's David Wells in the third inning tapper after another right back RBI groundout tied it at 2, and in beating the Bed Sox for the to the mound. Hideki Matsui fanned with run­fifth time in 17 meetings this 
He did a t.errific job fielding ners at second and third to end season. his position, too, piling up nine the inning. Jorge Caritu put the Devil assists _ including four straight Rays ahead 7-4 in the sixth in the seventh and eighth. The Devil Rays 8, Red Sox 7 with two-run homer off right-hander got 19 groundball Mark Hendrickson won his Jonathan Papelbon. outs overall and only one flyout. sixth straight decision and the He has 107 R 8 Is this year, 
Wang's brilliant performance Tampa Bay Devil Rays held on tying the team record set by could go a long way toward to beat Boston on Monday Aubrey Huff in 2003. keeping the rookie in the rota­night, trimming the Red Sox's Hendrickson (1 0-7) tied Victor tion even if Mike Mussina lead in the AL East over the Zambrano's franchise mark returns from a sore elbow later New York Yankees to one-half established last year with his this week as planned. game. six-game winning streak. He 
With two outs in the first, It is the closest the Yankees, gave up six runs and eight hits Wang gave up three straight who beat Baltimore 3-2 on in 6 1-3 innings. singles to Melvin Mora, Miguel Monday, have been since July Wells didn't resemble the Tejada and Jay Gibbons as 26, when they were one game pitcher who was 10-1 in 15 Baltimore went ahead. behind. previous starts against Tampa 
The Orioles scored again in David Ortiz drove in four Bay. The left-hander failed to the third on Tejada's RBI runs, two on a double in the cover first on a grounder in the groundout, and starter Erik seventh that got Boston within big inning and tied a season­Bedard got Sheffi~ld to ground 7-6 and another on his 44th high with two walks. into an inning-ending double homer that made it 8-7 with After· working out of jams in play with the bases loaded in two outs in the ninth. the first two innings and hold­the bottom half. The Devil Rays had gone ing a 2-0 lead, Wells recorded 
The Yankees kept coming, ahead 8-6 in the eighth on an only two outs in the third when though. They loaded the bases RBI grounder by Jonny Gomes. he allowed four runs and six with none out in the fifth, and Danys Baez allowed Ortiz's hits. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early and Save Lowest Prices Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest Commission Best Travel Perks www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426-771 0 
WANTED 
Enjoy babies& toddlers? 1st Unitarian Church needs a nursery caregiver on Sundays from 10:15­noon. $l0/hr. Must have references. Close to ND. Call Mary Beth 288­9167. 

FoR SALE 
1 bdrm condo near ND. All appliances.$69,000. Call Kim Kollar 574-280-8160. 
Single/married faculty/staff. Own a lovely home near ND for less than you pay for rent. Believe it! Call Dale (574) 243-9547 
. Coldwell Banker. 
NO/Leeper Park area. Immediate possession. Great condition! 4BR, 2 BA $134,500. MLS 203577. 
ReMax 100, Barb Foster, 968-4208 or 255-5858 
Riverfront Condominiums in Niles. Spectacular St. Joe River views. Condo conversion with new kitchens,baths,sliders and decks. Only 20 minutes to Notre Dame. One bedroom units $99.900. Two bedroom unit $149,900. Call Michael Kuhn of Keller Williams Realty toll-free at 866-840-6511 . 
FoR RENT 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcoun­trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non­smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­BORHOODS andersonNDrentals.com Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND game weekends. 7732182203 
Furnished room w/everything " except food. 3 blocks to ND. $450. 289-3397 
Remodeled House for Rent. 1 mile southeast of ND. 3 bed,2 bath $995/month. IMMACULATE! 315­9463 
TICKETS 
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 
251-1570. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$ www. victorytickets. com 
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT­BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 
273-3911. 

BUY SELL OR TRADE ND FOOT­BALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID. 
A.M.-232-2378 P.M.-288-2726 

Need 4 tix to any football game. 
Call Jack 574-674-6593. 

WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game. Call 203-261-8717 Jim. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. M.L Gude, esc, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Spring Break 2006. Travel with STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts. Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Hope you had a good time at work Alison. 

---~------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, September 20, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Snell earns first career win against Houston 
Pittsburgh blasts Clemens and Astros, 7-0, in rookie's fifth start; Greene's two homers lead San Diego past Colorado 
Associated Press 
Again, tlw Houston Astros' magic number with Hoger Clonwns on thn mound was zero. 
Znro as in the runs they smrml. Z1wo as in tho numbor of pmvious major loague vietorins for tho Piratns' Ian Snell, who outpitclwd a 340-gamo winnnr li1r his lirst win. 
Srudl limited the Astros to three singles ovnr eight innings and Freddy Sanchnz honwred among his three extra-base hits against Clnrnens, lnading the Pittsburgh Piratns to a 7-0 victo­ry Monday night. 
''I'm going to eh1~rish this for a long timn," said Snell, who previ­ously was 0-3 with a 12.38 EHA in four earenr starts. "lie's a pitdwr I grew up idolizing and wantnd to be likn." 
Pittsburgh's fourth wnsoeutive victory and fifth in six games endml Houston's live-game win­ning streak and reduced Houston's lead over idle Philadelphia to one gamn in the NL wild-card race. 
.Jose Mesa pitched the ninth inning in a non-savn situation to complete the Astros' ninth shutout loss in games startnd by Clmrwns and their 17th overall. tlw most in thn majors. Until this season, no pitdwr had btHHJ shut out as many as eight times in a s1~ason sinn~ San Dingo's Handy .Jones in I1J78. 
"Wn'vo just got this demon hanging ovnr our lwad, and it's a zPro," nHUHtgPr Phil Carrwr said. 
CIPmPns (12-8) lost to the Pirates for the first time in six earner starts _ he was :{-0 _ but the Astros dropped all threo ganws ho started against 
Study in CHINA 
Information Sessions for 
BEl] IN~ 
and 

~HAN~HAI 
Pittsburgh this season. The Pirates also won 6-4 on May 4 and 1-0 on Aug. 13, both in llouston. 
Clemens' 670th career start was his lirst in Pittsburgh _ PNC Park was the only current park where ho had not startod _ but he nevor lookod sharp despite striking out two in the first. lie allowed 11 hits in 5 2-3 innings, the most he's allowed since he also gave up 11 on April 15, 1999, pitching for the Yankees against the Oriolos. 
"What I featured out there is not good enough to get it done," Clemens said. "It just seemed like I was pitching out of the stretch a lot. I tried to battle and make pitches and be as stingy as I could ... but they broke it open." 
Snell (1-2) needed 17 major league appearances before final­ly showing why he was consid­ered one of the Pirates' top prospects after going 11-3 with a 
3.70 EHA in 18 starts at Triple-A Indianapolis and 58-19 overall in the minors. The right-hander didn't allow a runner past sec­ond base, striking out five and walking three, and didn't look intimidated going against a pitcher teammate Jack Wilson called the best in major league history. 
"I faced Chris Carpenter in my last start, and he's probably going to win the Cy Young Award, so it didn't faze me at all," Snell said. 
Wilson tripled with one out in the third and scored when Jason Bay singled for his 91st HBI, and Sanchez hit his third homer in the fourth to make it 2-0. The homer was only the 11th against Clemens this season, the second fewest by a pitchnr with 175 innings or more; Florida's Dontrelle Willis has allowed nine. 
With Clemens never throwing harder than 92 miles per hour, Sanchez doubled to start the sixth and scornd on Tike Hedman's single. Wilson's third hit, a single, scored Hedman, and Hob Mackowiak's two-run double made it ()-0. 
Not many, if any, of Clemens' 172 career losses have come against a lineup that appeared to be less intimidating. The Pirates started four rookies and two second-year players against one of baseball's premier pitch­ers ever, yet had Clemens out of the game in the sixth. 
"My main concern is when it's 2-0, I've got to keep it at 2-0," Clemens said. "It gives us a little more of a chance. To give up four more runs, that isn't going to get it done. I don't care who you're facing or who you're playing, it's not going to get it done." 
It was the second time this season a Pirates rookie pitcher has beaten one of baseball's all­time win leaders. Left-bander Zach Duke beat the Cubs' Greg Maddux 3-0 on .July 16 for his second career vietory. · 
Padres 8, Rockies 7 
Khalil Greene hit two homers, inducting the game-winner in the ninth inning, to lift the San Diego Padres back over .500 with a victory ov1~r the Colorado Hockies on Monday night. 
Greene took a 1-0 pitch ofT Hoekies closer Brian Fuentes (2­
4) to left-center to help the 

Padres win their third straight close game and improve to 75­74. 
They moved six games ahead of idle San Francisco in the weak NL West and their magic num­ber shrunk to eight. 
Scott Linebrink (8-1) threw two seoreless innings to pick up the win. Trevor llofl'man pitdwd tho ninth for his 3bth straight save and 39th overall. 
This was Greene's fourth carenr multihomer game. !lis first home run came in the sec­ond for a 2-0 lead. 
lie also had a double in tho seventh. 
The loss ollicially knocked the Hockies out of playoll' eontontion _ an unusually late date to say it's over for a team with a 61-88 record. 
But that's the naturn of tho NL West. 
The Padres, who have hovered around .500 since late .July, lost to Los Angeles on Sept. 11 to fall to 71-71 and hadn't made it over the break-even point sincn. Still, they haven't been out of l'irst place since May 25. They have three morn ganws against tho Hockies bdore heading to Arizona for thn~n. 
They worn pushml all night by Colorado, which is 25-21 since July 31, sixth bnst in the majors over that span, and 46-5:~ sinco Juno 1, which is tind with San Frandsen for tlw b1~st roeord in tho NL Wnst over that period. 
Todd Ilnlton of the Hoekies had a triple and Matt Holliday sin­glod him home in the seventh to tie tho game at 7. Garrett Atkins and Cory Sullivan each had two singles. Starting pitcher Sunny 
Kim, trying to earn a spot in Colorado's 2006 rotation, allowed 11 hits, seven runs and throe homers and blew leads of 3-2 and 6-5 bnforn being lifted in the sixth. 
It was bettor than San Diego starter Brian Lawrence fared. lie lasted only 2 1-3 innings, allowing nine hits and livn runs. before being rnlinvnd by Chan llo Park, who made his l'irst appearance out of the bullpen since 2001. 

"The dramatic monolo9ues in Ne<l Balbo's Lives of the 

rOtM\ &7 ~fO ~RLBO 
Sleepers are superb, the lyrics cnthr<llling, dnd the meditations haunting. 
M 
~Andrew Hudgins 
~VNI\'f'l\~lr\·t,P 
..., NOTRE DAME 

. I 
5PM Tuesday, September 20 117 Hayes-Healy or 
5PM Monday, September 26 129 Hayes-Healy 
Tuesday, September 20, 2005 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Mistake-prone Saints lose first 'hoine' gaiTie 
Giants jump out to 14-0first quarter lead, cruise to 27-10 victory 
Associated Press 
Aside from a few superficial touches, it didn't look, sound or feel like home. The New Orleans Saints better get used to it ­because this is how it's going to be all season. 
The New York Giants, visitors in name and jersey color only, had no complaints. Playing before 68,031 of their fans Monday night in the comfort of their own ballpark, the Giants beat the displaced Saints 27-10 in one of the most bizarre "home" settings in sports history. 
"We were in the visiting 
locker room, on 
"We were in the visiting 
the visiting at the 10, with field," Haslett locker r(Jom, on the C h a s e 
said. "It visiting field. It seemed Blackburn 
seemed like an recovering.
like an away game. " 
away game." Three plays NFL nomads later, to with no stadi­Jim Haslett tumultuous 
um after the Saints head coach cheers for the 
ing an illegal contact by Sedrick Hodge that negated a third-down sack and set up the Giants' third touchdown. In all, the Saints had six turnovers, 13 penalties for 92 yards and allowed four sacks. 
Efforts to make this resemble something akin to home appeared minimal at Giants Stadium, where _ surprisingly, considering the local team's pop­ularity-about 10,000 seats went unoccupied. Those in attendance generally were dressed in Giants blue and, except for mild applause when the entire Saints squad came onto the field before the coin toss, they rooted for their guys. 
One end zone had SAINTS painted in white and a few Saints banners were scattered along the blue bunting on the lower level. Other than a http://www.saintsh urricane­fund.org sign on the message board, everything about the night said New Jersey, not New Orleans. 
"We've been in four complexes in four weeks, I've been in three hotels, now an apartment," Haslett noted. "But that (per­formance) had nothing to do with where we live or what we do. We sucked on that field today." 
At least the Saints' other seven home games will be played clos­er.to home: four in Baton Rouge, La., and three in San Antonio, where they train. For this one, they had to dress in the cramped visitors' locker room, with a makeshift Saints sign hung above the entrance. 
The Giants (2-0) benefited in every way from the NFL's deci­sion, beginning with the opening kickoff. The Saints tried some trickery and it immediately back­fired. Michael Lewis handed otT the return to Fred McAfee, who fumbled 

damage to the Superdome and New Orleans caused by Hurricane Katrina, the Saints were given a home game here by the league. Historically more successful on the road under coach Jim Haslett (25-17 going in), they couldn't overcome criti­cal mistakes in falling to 1-1. 
While they could be excused if their minds were elsewhere, Saints players have insisted that on game day, nothing distracts them from football. It looked that way in last week's upset of Carolina. It looked decidedly dif­ferent Monday night. 
"I think the guys have gone a great job of focusing on football in practices and meetings," 
"visitors," 
rookie 
Brandon 
Jacobs barely squeezed into the end zone for a 7-0 lead. 
Hardly the start the Saints needed, and it didn't get much better. The Giants moved 76 yards in 11 plays to a 14-0 lead on Tiki Barber's 6-yard recep­tion. Barber took a middle screen and dived to the goal line, colliding with teammate David Diehl as he scored. 
But the Saints are nothing if not resilient, and they came back with an 86-yard drive that was almost all Joe Horn. He had two catches of 15 yards before beat­ing a zone for a 21-yard touch­down. It was Horn whose 

Haslett said. "It "/ think the guys have cell phone 
did not reflect antics in a
done a great job of
that today. It game against didn't carry focusing on football in the Giants two 
over." practices and meets. It years ago 
In the first drew him a
did not reflect that
half alone, the measure of Saints commit­today." fame_ and a ted 11 penal­$30,000 fine. ties for 72 Hodge's
Jim Haslett 
yards, includ­penalty three
Saints head coach 
plays after 
Carlos Emmons' interception led to Barber's 12-yard run for a 21-7 New York lead. While the Saints got closer on John Carney's 21­yard field goal near the end of the half, their miscues continued in the second half. 
Aaron Brooks' fumble set up Jay Feely's 39-yard field goal, making it 24-10. And when his pass deflected off Donte' Stallworth to safety Brent Alexander, who returned it 26 yards, the Saints were reeling. 
Carney, who kicked the win-· ning field goal last week at Carolina, even missed a 29­yarder, hitting the left upright. Feely then made a 30-yarder for New York. 
When Horn fumbled as he was stretching for the end zone with 
3:40 to go _the Saints' fifth turnover -most of the fans headed home, quite happy to see the visitors' victory. 
Saints kick returner Michael Lewis injured a knee in the fourth quarter and Haslett said it appeared to be serious. 

Redskins down Cowboys 
Washington scores two late touchdowns, wins in Texas Stadium 
Associated Press 
As much as the Washington 
Redskins would've settled for 
any kind of victory over the 
Dallas Cowboys, this one was 
especially sweet. 
Mark Brunell hit Santana 
Moss in stride for touchdown 
passes of 39 and 70 yards in 
the fmal 3:46, then the defense 
made it stand up, giving 
Washington a 14-13 victory 
over its top rival Monday night. 
The Redskins won for only the 
second time in their last 16 
games against the longtime 
NFC East rival Cowboys and for 
the first time at Texas Stadium 
since 1995. 
The comeback was stunning· .because Washington hadn't 
crossed the Dallas 27 -yard line 
until Moss' first TD, which also 
was the first of the season for 
the Redskins (2-0). The second 
one put the Cowboys (1-1) 
behind for the first time and 
silenced a crowd of 65,207, 
their largest since 1995. 
The lure was partly 
Washington, but mostly a half­
time ceremony featuring the 
induction of Troy Aikman, 
Emmitt Smith and Michael 
Irvin into the team's Ring of 
Honor. They were enjoying a 
great performance from Dallas' 
new-look defense and seemed 
only mildly irritated by coach 
Bill Parcells' conservative 
game plan. 
It didn't seem to be a big deal 
when Jose Cortez's second field 
goal put Dallas up 13-0 with 5:58 left. 
Then the Redskins _ on an 0­25 skid when trailing after three quarters _ changed everything. 
The touchdowns by Moss came 1:11 apart, so the Cowboys still had time to regain the lead. They seemed to be in pretty good shape, too, when rookie Tyson Thompson returned the ensuing kickoff to the 48. 
A 6-yard run by Julius Jones followed, then came two incompletions. Going for it on fourth down, Drew Bledsoe hit Terry Glenn with a short pass across the middle, but he couldn't get the yards needed for a first down. After the stop, defensive lineman Joe Salave'a threw open his arms, leaned back and jiggled with delight, while cornerback Walt Harris bounced up and down as if on a pogo stick. 
The Cowboys had one last drive, starting on their 21 with 36 seconds left. They got to their 41, then went to a des­perate measure on their last play _ Bledsoe hitting Jones and him lateraling it to Glenn. He was tackled at the Washington 43, then rose to his knees and threw the ball up in disgust while the Redskins began celebrating perhaps the most satisfying victory in Joe Gibbs' second tenure in D.C. 
It's the first time Parcells has lost a game with his team lead­ing by 13 or more points in the fourth quarter, a streak of 77 games. 



FIND CASH FOR COLLEGE. 
ANOTHER BENEFIT TO OUR ONLINE EDITION: 
Click on the scholarships link on the top bar of our site, and browse a scholarship search to conned with over 650,000 scholarship awards, worth $2.5 billion. 
Visit www.ndsmcobserver.com 
powered by: 


Tuesday, September 20, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Houston gets rid of Palmer 
Offensive coordinator fired after two ugly losses to start season 
Associated Press 
The Houston Texans fired offensive eoordinator Chris Palmer on Monday following the team's seeond straight mnbarrassing loss. 
.Joe Pendry, the team's oll'en­siv•J line 1:oach, was introduced as his replaeement by eoaeh Dom Capers Monday afternoon. 
"We have not performed up to our expectations," Capers said. "We needed to make an adjustment to help us move for­ward in the dirnetion we want to go." 
Capers and quarterbaek David Carr agrned that oll'ense needs to be more consistent and hope this change will facili­tate that. 
Palmer, who had been the oiTensive coordinator since the team's inception, also called the plays. 
The Texans lost to Pittsburgh 27-7 on Sunday after losing to Buffalo 22-7 in the opener. Houston has averaged the fewest yards (170.5), fewest passing yards (66.5) and points 
(7) in the NFL through its first two games. 
In Sunday's game, Carr appeared to be confused. He was sacked eight times -the most since the expansion year in 2002 and one shy of the most in the team's 50-game history. 
Against Buffalo, Houston allowed five sacks and had five turnovers. 
Carr said he didn't like the feeling he's had the last two weeks and that he's happy with any change that will improve the team. 
"I just want to get back to where we feel good about going out on Sundays," Carr said. "Feel like we have a chance to go out and compete against the teams that we feel like we're just as good as." 
Palmer joined the Texans after being fired after one sea­son as coach of the Cleveland Browns. 
Capers said he's been "evalu­ating the big picture" for a while and that this decision is a culmination of Houston's poor performance in a season-end­ing loss to Cleveland, in the pre­season and the first two games. 
He said over that period it became "apparent to me that things weren't working." 
Houston has a bye this week before traveling to Cincinnati on Oct. 2. 


T-shirts to All Finishers Awards to First-Place Finishers in 24 Divisions Student, Staff and Community Divisions 

For more information, call 631-6100 or visit recsports.nd.edu 
Pancake Breakfast Immediately Following 

~' Msoc-.. 
!'JISI»"-'o;:;. 
-0
< :::> 
NOTRE DAME 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles prepare for four hon1e gan1es this vveek 
Saint Mary's will host three MIAA squads over next five days 
By RYAN KIEFER News Writer 
One game may not be able to determine the eourse of a season, but one week can. 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team had the weekend off, giving the Belles plenty of time to think about the criti­cal week ahead. 
The Belles (5-7, 0-2) have four matches this week, all of them at home and three of them against conferenee foes. They begin the week with a match against Kalamazoo College (4-9, 0-1) tonight at the Angela Athletic Center. 
The Belles face Manchester College Thursday before host­ing last year's top two MIAA teams Saturday, 
"We need to play
Calvin and solid defensive Alma. strong this week and play would be Belles Coach critical to her
climb the conference 
Julie Schroeder­team's success
ladder."
Biek recognizes tonight. the importanee The Belles of this week's Julie Schroeder-Biek will try to con­contests. l.i n u e to
Belles head coach 
"They are always a strong team," Schroeder-Bink said. "Thny lost some key players from !last year's team that finished third in the MIAAI. but they will be tough." 
The Hornets swept tlw Belles in two matehes last season on their way to finish­ing 11-5 in the league. 
Saint Mary's enters the game following a win Thursday against Concordia (Ill.). 
The Belles won in five games despite an abbrnviated warm up caused by difficulty in finding the gym. 
Sehroeder-Biek thought last week's travel troubles may have been a hidden blessing for her team. 
"It forced us to eome right out and just play," she said. "We had to focus and elimi­nate distractions. 
"We did and we played very well. We have to do the same this week." Sehroeder­Bink said that 
"We need to play strong this week to climb the conference ladder," Sehroeder Biek said. 
The Belles' inconsistent play, especially in the area of serve reception, led them to disappointing home losses to Hope and Olivet and has left them at the bottom of the MIAA standings. 
Kalamazoo enters with a five-game losing streak after losing their conference open­er to Alma and dropping all four matches at the Wittenberg College Border Challenge over the weekend. Despite their record, the Hornets are a disciplined team and have earned the respect of Schroeder-Biek. 
improve their 
serve recep­

tion and "finn tune" their passing game. 
Above all, Schroeder-Biek thought her team's mental approach would determine their success this week. 
"Playing at home can add some different distractions," Schroeder-Biek said. "We need to have the same mind­set as we had on Thursday and play each game with more and more focus." 
Next week, the Belles have two more home games, host­ing Tri-State on Sept. 27 and Bethel on Oct.l at the Angela Athletic Center. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
lafayette Square Townhomes 
4 and 5 bedrooms on 3 levels of living all including: 
• Dishwashers 
• 
Washers and Dryers 

• 
ADT Security Systems 


*NEW MANAGEMENT SPECIAL* 
Only $210 Per Person For the first 10 Apartments Leased for the 06-07 School Year 
574-233-5704 or N icole_Soko@hotmai l.com 
page 18 
MEN'S INTERHALL-BLUE LEAGUE 
Long touchdown lifts Otters past Steds111en 
Siegfried wins Flanner Cup game; Zahm tops Carroll on final drive 
By JAY FITZPATRICK. 
CATHERINE KANE AND 
JACK THORNTON 
Sports Writers 

Sarin defeated St. Ed's Sunday with the only score coming by Otter quarterback Stu Mora's 40-yard touchdown pass to Kevin Tooke. 
In what promised to be a very defensive-minded game, both teams delivered. 
After a scoreless first quarter, Sarin drove into St Ed's territory and, despite almost fumbling the shotgun snap, Mora threw a 40­yard bomb to Tooke for what would be the only touchdown of the game. 
Neither team scored in the second half, mainly because of the turnovers by both teams. 
St. Ed's had three turnovers in the contest. Sarin captain Pete Lavorini recovered one fumble while Kevin Manning had a fum­ble recovery and an intercep­tion. 
"We pride ourselves on defense," Manning said. "We go for a turnover on every series." 
Lavorini was also impressed with his team's performance. 
"The defense stood everyone up today," Lavorini said. "We also had a couple of big plays in some big series today on offense." 
Lavorini said that the win was in large part thanks to the effort put forth by Mora, who was 7­of-15 with one touchdown and two interceptions. 
The Stedsmen, although they could never get the offense going, hung close the entire game in large part due to a great defensive effort. 
Despite being down seven at the half and failing to effectively move the ball on offense, the Stedsmen came out strong in the second half, causing three Otter turnovers. Interceptions by Matt Pasluszni and Ge Wang and a fumble recovery by Kevin Bradley consistently gave St Ed's solid field position and the chance to score. 
The Sarin defense also stepped up the intensity in crucial situa­tions to keep the Otters close. Lavorini recovered a fumble just after the Tooke touchdown, giv­ing the Otters field position around the Stedsmen 27. But St Ed's stopped Sarin on downs and took the ball back after four plays. 
Stedsmen captain Dan Ward said that he was still impressed with his team despite the loss. 
"We only slipped up once in the secondary," Ward said. "One mental lapse can make a differ­ence in a game." 
Next week St. Ed's has a bye while Sarin will face Zahm. 
Siegfried 9, Knott 0 
Siegfried used a safety and an interception return for a touch­down to gain a 9-0 win over Knott Sunday. 
In the first quarter, Siegfried's Matt Whopperer intercepted a pass and returned it the length of the field for a touchdown. Kicker Pablo Nava followed suc­cessfully with the extra point as the Ramblers took the lead 7-0. 
Throughout the second and third quarters, neither team was able to score. Both defenses remained solid, and both teams faced difficulty in moving the ball up the field. 
Knott's quarterback, Matt Whittington, had a hard time completing passes, often throw­ing the ball away three times in a row, forcing the Juggernauts to punt. 
Siegfried's offense, on the other hand, never threw the ball. 
The Rambler defimse scored all of the points, starting with the-touchdown in the first quar­ter and ending with a safety in the fourth quarter. 
The safety happened after Siegfried could not convert on the Knott 2-yard line after Marcus Bolden's interception return set up the Ramblers. 
Knott then took possession, and the Siegfried defense pushed the Juggernauts line backward, forcing a safety. 
Knott captain Matt Whopperer and Siegfried captain Marcus Bolden were both proud of their team's accomplishments. 
"We did a lot of good things out there, both on defense and offense. We just shut them down, " Whopperer said. 
Bolden recognized his team struggled in many areas. 
"We definitely have a lot to work on, but it was a very excit­ing win," Bolden said. "And we can only get better from here." 
Zahm 14, Carroll 12 
In a game defined by dramatic fourth-quarter drives, Zahm capitalized on its fmal drive and held off Carroll to win 14-12 in Sunday's Blue League game. 
Trailing by four points with a little over eight minutes to play, Zahm took the ball at its own 35. After completing only one pass in the first half, Bats quarter­back Sean Wieland efficiently moved his team down the field, connecting with his receivers four times before stalling. Facing third-and-18 from the Carroll 32, a pass interference call on Carroll gave the Zahm a first down at the 15. Two plays later, Wieland found receiver Jake Richardville in the corner of the endzone for the go-ahead score. 
"When we were driving down that field, I just kept thinking about yesterday at the [Notre Dame) football game," Zahm captain Pat Gourley said. "It looked just like it." 
With a little over a minute left, Carroll quarterback and captain Kory Wilmot went to work. He completed five-of-six passes for 49 yards to bring the Vermin to the Zahm 16-yard line. 
With only a few seconds left on the clock, Carroll opted to attempt the 33-yard field goal but Mike Johnson's kick fell short, giving Zahm the win. 
"We lost this game every­where," Wilmot said. "There's no way the offense should only get two touchdowns and no way the defense should give up two." 
As the temperature approached 85 degrees, the heat proved to be a factor. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu, Catherine Kane at ckane@nd.edu, and Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 

---~~~-~~---------------~~----~-------. 
The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 20, 2005 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL-BLUE LEAGUE 
Ruffer, Chaos down Chicks 
Lions stomp Ducks behind 'nasty' defense, potent passing offense 
By JAMES FEGAN and JASON 
GALVAN 
Sports Writers 
Cavanaugh topped Lewis 12-0 Sunday as both squads strug­gled through a gritty defensive contest. 
Cavanaugh's offense wasn't overwhelming but overcame a tough Lewis defense for two first-half touchdowns. Senior quarterback Lisa Ruffer calmly hurt Lewis with her arm and her feet. 
After a Chick turnover, Ruffer capitalized by connecting with Nancy Powaga from 19 yards out to give Cavanaugh a lead they never relinquished. Later in the first half, Ruffer found Janice Flynn in the end zone from 16 yards out. 
Despite the scores, Cavanaugh's defensive perform­ance was the story of the game. While Lewis was able to move the ball in occasional spurts, Cavanaugh didn't break all day, coming up with crucial stops whenever the situation dictated. 
The Lewis offense was frus­trated by strong secondary play all day and was beset by the Cavanaugh pass rush through­out the second half. 
Lewis quarterback Elisa Valdez was sacked three times, twice by the Chaos' Kat Moravek -who provided pres­sure off the edge all game. 
Cavanaugh intercepted Valdez early in the first half and effec­tively shut her down as Lewis was attempting to rally in the second half. 
Valdez moved her offense well in the frrst half, but fmished six­of-20 after her last eight passes of the game fell incomplete. 
In the second half, Lewis' defense tightened up noticeably, even intercepting Ruffer to give the Chicks new life late in the game. 
"Lewis' defense really stepped up in the second half," Cavanaugh's coach said. 
It appears Lewis will be able to depend on its defense as its offense starts to around. Meaghan McGarr recorded two sacks, while Lauren Mullins recorded a late interception. 
"Cavanaugh played really well," the Lewis coach said. 
I . 
Lyons 20, Howard 0 

Before Lyons and Howard took the field Sunday, Lions' captain Katie Mackin, described her team's defensive unit as "quick and nasty." This state­ment proved true as the Lions shut out the Ducks 20 -0 behind Jenni Delaney's three touchdown receptions. 
Lions quarterback Kim Murphy connected with Delaney for the first touchdown midway through the first half. After an unsuccessful two-point conver­sion attempt, the Lions went into halftime 6-0. 
The Ducks came out of the half with an impressive 42-yard reverse which put them within striking distance. However, Lions rookie Jamie Smith pro­vided her team with a key inter­ception to stop the Ducks offen­sive push. 
The Lions then marched down the field and capped this drive with quarterback Lynn Truitt connecting with Delaney for another touchdown. The Lions led 14-0 after the successful two-point conversion. 
The Lions secured the win when Murphy connected with Delany again for the final touch­down. 
The Lyons defense held Howard to under 100 yards of offensive production and pro­vided the Lions with several key turnovers. 
Lions' defenders Judith Kaczmarek, Mosie Nuccio, Jamie Smith and Joanna Collins each had an interception to keep the Ducks in check. 
The teams remained close for much of the first half until the Lions scored on their fourth offensive series. This drive also proved to be the turning point of the contest as the Ducks lost co­captain Renee Alessi to a wrist injury. 
"Our injury to Alessi really hurt," Howard co-captain Callie Whelan said. "A lot of people had to step in where they weren't used to." 
Since Alessi plays on both sides of the ball, the team had to do without a central piece of their offensive and defensive units. 
Three plays after the injury, Murphy connected with Delaney for the first score. 
"The quarterbacks were both awesome," Delaney said. "Everyone really pulled together and they found the open spots." 
Mackin was pleased with her team's production but was care­ful to keep the victory in per­spective. 
Contact James Fegan at 
jfegan@nd.edu and Jason Galvin at jgalvin@nd .. edu 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall2006, SPRING 2007, AY 2006-7, SUMMER 2006 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Wednesday, Sept. 21, 2005 
6:30 PM 102 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15,2005 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2006-7 APRIL 1, 2006 FOR SUMMER 2006 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Tuesday, September 20, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL-BLUE LEAGUE 
Defending champ Walsh opens versus Lewis 
' 

Howard looks to rebound against Cavanaugh after shutout loss; Lyons tries to continue winning ways against Badin 
By CHRIS HINE, 
JAY FITZPATRICK and 
FRANCIS TOLAN 
Spons Wri rers 
Def'nnding champion Walsh lakes the first step in defending its title tonight at S p.m. at Hinhle West Field against Blue League rival Lewis. 
"We've lost some people, but we're still strong," Walsh cap­lain Mary Ellen Botta said. "We feel the pressure this year with people expecting us to be good." 
Botta and her team are led by a high-powered offense return­ing several starters, most notably quarterback Mary Sullivan, a dangerous runner. 
In addition to using her legs, Sullivan will be looking for returning receiver Cigi Moore. 
The Walsh defense is anchornd by Botta on the line and senior Patty Hose at corner­back. Lewis is hoping to estab­lish some stability on offense after having three different starting quarterbacks the last two years. Under center tonight for Lewis will be Elisa Valdez, a transfer from Cavanaugh. . 
Valdez will have a solid receiving corps to which to throw, consisting of Kara Bailey, tight-end/flanker Joslyn Moya, wideout Bridget Blum and Katy Clune. Clune returns to Lewis after spending a year abroad. 
On defense, Lewis features middle-linebacker Julia Burke, safety Lauren Mullins and Mia Idelaros at corner. They will try to contain Sullivan and Walsh's veteran offense. When asked about facing the defending champions, Bailey said the team isn't intimidated. 
"The playing field is level every year," Bailey said. "Heputation means nothing." 
Cavanaugh vs. Howard 
Cavanaugh (1-0) kicks ofT the second week of Blue League action Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
against Howard (0-1) at Biehle Field. 
The Chaos played well in their first game against Lewis, a 12-0 victory. The Chaos offense led the charge in the first half, but penalties hurt Cavanaugh last week and could prove costly against Howard. 
"The offense was consistent in the first half but made some silly mistakes in the second half that stopped us from scoring more touchdowns," center Michelle Ilamrah said. 
Despite the shutout, Hamrah said the defense did not play perfectly. 
"The defense had some men­tal mistakes that we need to learn from and talk about," Ilamrah said.\ 
The Ducks are corning off a tough 20-0 loss to Lyons. The defense worked hard last week, but mental mistakes and a lack of experience allowed Lyons to get in the end zone three times. 
"A lot of girls were playing both sides of the ball and posi­tions they had never played," receiver Mary Kaminski said. "Considering that, we were happy with how we played." 
The Ducks offense also needs to improve after being shut out and also needs to eut down on the mental mistakes to get the ball down the field more effee­tively. 
Lyons vs. Badin 
Lyons and Badin are both dis­playing early-season optimism going into today's game at 9 
p.m. at Riehle Field West. The Lions, coming off a 20-0 win against Howard Sunday, hope to maintain the momentum they have already built. This will be the Bullfrogs' season opener, however. 
"We're definitely going to be able to stay focused, and we've even added some new plays," Lyons captain Katie Mackin said. 
The Badin Bullfrogs, mean­while, are also confident in the potential of' their squad. Thn players believe the returning players and newcomers will form a cohesive unit. 
"The tremendous leadership of the seniors seems to be one of' our strongest points," Bullfrogs captain Meg Charlebois said. 
Charlebois feels this experi­ence will help the team return to the form it had displayed before the disappointing conclu­sion to last season. Badin was knocked out in the first round of' last year's playoff's, but Charlebois said that loss only made them hungrier to win this year. 
Both captains claim practices have been going well and hopn to continue with their good form. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu, Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu and Francis Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

@tJ;J_BJ'r~
BARS of 
the BEND 


IRISH PUB 
~ EST.1990 ~ {!.-.e 4« ~ :l2<UI'~ ..,..., /il-ed 

YOU MUST BE 21 YEARS OF AGE 

TuESDAYS AND 
WITH VALID ID TO CONSUME 
THURSDAYS: 

ALCOHOL AT THESE ESTABLISHMENTS. EVERY WEDNESDAY 

EVERY THURSDAY 
$3.00 PITCHEHS 

$2 
ANYdrink 
$1.00 DOMESTIC

MAI)ISC)N 0YST'ER BAR
in the house!! 
75¢ 
DRAFTS 

'l'hrcc l.c\'cls or l·~·lcctic 
Great D1ink Specials Everyday 
Well Drinks 

A.tin<>~J>IJcn.:
OPEN MIC NIGHT!! 
NO COVER!

(;oil", Pool, Fooshall, Da11~. Monday: $1 Draughts, $·1· l'itchns
$2 
ENORMOUS Come play or sing on 
llig Screen, 21 + Tuesday: $2.25 Call! 
Basket of Fries 

Wednesday: $1.50 Domestic Long Necks 
stage with our entert~iners 
$I .00 CANS EVERY

-Fried Oystcrs­
Thursday: $2.50 lmpmts
~Scafood Plattcr­
DAY OF SELECT

Friday: $:~.50 il2oz Draughts/ I louse Pints -Chops & Burgers-· Keep the Glass! 
·l'harhroiled Strip­
DOMESTICS 

Saturday: $15 Bucket Mix Import
Wdi-Stockcd liar& lmp<u1s 
129 N. Main St(@Collax), South Bend, IN 574 ..2HH.3771i 




'I B:J•r 
Monday: 



Watch all Notre
Karaoke Night, 
Dame Games­Never a cover 
Most and Largest
$2.50 Long Islands 
with Student 10

~:~or
Screens in Town GO IRISH 

Tuesday: $1.50 Domestic Bottles $2.00 Wells 
2046 South Bend Ave Across from Martins Plaza 
272·1766 
Wednesday: 
Trivia Night, 

MONDAY THURSDAY 
$3.00 Pitchers 

All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets, 2nd Penny night. Monday Night Football on HDTV 1¢ wells and drafts, DJ plays hits all night long 
Thursday: 

TUESDAY 
$2.00 Imports 

ND penny night, $1 off cover with FRIDAY student ID, DJ all night, DJ till 3:00a.m., 1t wells and drafts pre-game warm up
Sunday: $4.00 Bloody Mary's 

WEDNESDAY SATURDAY $10.00 Domestic Buckets 
Live trivia night with cash prizes Game day -Go IRISH. and free drinks, 1 to 8 people DJ after games, per team, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. celebrate victory and boogie
ICR Apts I Karaoke:
Kitchen Open Every Day 

Defending champs: ND law till dawn. ESPN game plan 
"Sing Your Way 
Daily Grill Specials: 

Legal Eagles. 69¢ bitty burger, M-Th 4pm-3am 
49¢ wings, $10.00 buckets SUNDAY Fri 11 am-3am 
to Vegas" 
S1. 50 burgers, dogs, 

Wed 9pm-2pm 
fries and bottles.
Sat 4pm-3am 

NFL Sunday tickets -14 screens.
Sun 11 am-12midnight 

1733 South Bend Ave. 574.234.4015 
57 4.277.2527 




OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 20, 2005 CoMrrLED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WJRE SERVKES page 20 
NFL 
AFC East 

team New England Buffalo Miami N.Y. Jets  record 1-1 1-1 1-1 1-1  perc. .500 .500 .500 .500  PF 47 25 41 24  PA 47 26 27 34  
AFC North  
team Cincinnati Pittsburgh Cleveland Baltimore  record 2-0 2-0 1-1 0-1  perc. 1.000 1.000 .500 .000  PF 64 61 39 17  PA 21 14 51 49  
AFC South  
team Indianapolis Jacksonville Tennessee Houston  record 2-0 1-1 1-1 0-2  perc. 1.000 .500 .500 .000  PF 34 29 32 14  PA 10 24 44 49  
AFC West  
team Kansas City Denver Oakland San Diego  record 2-0 1-1 0-2 0-2  pere. 1.000 .500 .000 .ODD  PF 50 30 37 41  PA 24 51 53 48  
NFC East  
team Washington N.Y. Giants Dallas Philadelphia  record 2-0 2-0 1-1 1-1  perc. 1.000 1.000 .500 .500  PF 23 69 41 52  PA 20 29 42 17  
NFC North  
team Chicago Detroit Green Bay Minnesota  record 1-1 1-1 0-2 0-2  perc. .500 .500 .ODD .DOD  PF 45 23 27 21  PA 15 41 43 61  
NFC South  
team Tampa Bay New Orleans Atlanta Carolina  record 2-0 1-1 1-1 1·1  perc. 1.000 .500 .500 .500  PF 43 33 32 47  PA 16 47 31 40  
NFC West  
team St. Louis Arizona Seattle San Francisco  record 1-1 1-1 1-1 0-2  perc. .500 .500 .500 .000  PF 31 35 42 31  PA 67 44 40 59  

MIAA Soccer 

team MIAA overall 
1 Calvin 3-0-0 4-1·1 2 Hope 3-0-0 5·1-0 3 Olivet 3-1-0 3-3-0 4 Alma 2-2-0 3-2-1 5 SAINT MARY'S 2-1-0 3-3-0 6 Kalamazoo 1-2-0 2-3-1 7 Albion 0-2-0 0-4-0 8 Adrian 0-3-0 0-6-0 9 Tri-State 0-3-0 2-4-0 
around the dial 
MLB 

Indians at White Sox 7:05 p.m., Comcast 
POKER 2005 World Series of Poker 7 p.m., ESPN 
WNBA FINALS Connecticut at Sacramento 8 p.m., ESPN 2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

DALLAS -The brash receiver arrived first, full of smiles and swagger. . 
Then came the guy who seemed straight out of some build-a-quarterback kit: rocket arm, Hollywood good looks, even a name befitting a rugged leader. 
Last but certainly not least, there was the little man, the running back who loved being told what he couldn't do jvst so he could prove folks wrong. 
Michael Irvin, Troy Aikman and Emmitt Smith joined the Dallas Cowboys in successive years, 1988, '89 and '90, each as a first-round pick. They wound up becoming quite a trio, perhaps the best the NFL has ever seen. 
While there's a good chance Irvin, Aikman and Smith will eventually all be part of the Pro Football Hall of Fame, they received another, more fit­ting tribute Monday night by going into the team's Ring of Honor _ together. During halftime of the Cowboys-Redskins game, their names were unveiled across the stadium's facade around the 50-yard line facing the Dallas bench. 
"I feel wholeheartedly that our success was 
IN BRIEF 

Congressional committee 
investigates Palmeiro oath 
WASHINGTON D.C. Congressional investigators looking into whether Rafael Palmeiro lied under oath are interviewing players who know him, including a Colorado outfielder suspended this year for steroids, The Associated Press has learned. 
Palmeiro testified to the House Government Reform Committee in March that he never had used steroids. The Baltimore Orioles slug­ger, one of four players in history with 3,000 hits and 500 homers, was suspended by Major League Baseball for 10 days in August for failing a drug test. 
A congressional source familiar with the committee's work, speaking to the AP on condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing, said Monday that "several active players" have spoken or will speak with the committee. That source linked together in so many different ways," Aikman said when the induction was announced. "I think that all three of us, in a lot of ways, pushed aside our own egos and selfishness in order for the team to thrive." 
Debating their status among the greatest QB­RB-WR combinations could be a lot of fun. However, these guys have the ultimate rebuttal: Name another set that won three Super Bowls in four years? (New England has won three of the last four titles, but the Patriots had three leading receivers and two leading rushers along the way.) 
OK, how about the Pittsburgh teams that dominated the 1970s? Or the San Francisco clubs from the 1980s? 
Well, Terry Bradshaw, Franco Harris and Lynn Swann were the regular­season leaders together in only two of the Steelers' four Super Bowl-winning seasons. 
Joe Montana, Roger Craig and Jerry Rice did it for only two of the 49ers' title teams. 
"What we shared and what we were able to accomplish on the football field was something unbe­lievable," Smith said. 

would not identify who was inter­viewed. 
But a baseball source, also speak­ing to the AP on condition of anonymity because the inquiry is ongoing, said Colorado Rockies out­fielder Jorge Piedra spoke on the phone with the committee within the last week. NFL stars come together for relief effort 
NEW YORK -John Elway knew he wanted to do more than just donate money for Katrina relief. 
The Hall of Farner and former Denver Broncos quarterback head­lined more than 30 current and for­mer NFL players in a fund-raising telethon Monday night for the Bush­Clinton Katrina Fund. 
"You want to get involved and be a part of something that there's a chance to raise a whole bunch of money," Elway said. "We can all donate money, but you want to do more." 
The telethon, which started around 6 p.m. and was to last until midnight, was part of the NFL's "Hurricane Relief Weekend." Colts establish new, strongdefense 
The Indianapolis Colts are creating a new identity. 
A team known for winning shootouts with its record-breaking offense is now winning with a stifling defense. A defense routinely eriti­cized for being too "soft" is knocking down quarterbacks and knocking them out of games. And, a team once called too finesse to be a legitimate Super Bowl contender is demonstrat­ing it can play smashmouth football, too. 
Meet the new Colts _ faster, tougher, better. 
"It's an ongoing transition to become the defense we want to be," said Dwight Freeney, the 2004 sacks champion. "We're nowhere near where we need to be." 

Tuesday, September 20, 2005 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles eager to cool dovvn Co111ets 
Fresh from two wins, Saint Mary's looks to snag home victory 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Sporrs Wri1cr 
Olivet College is just another bump in the road for a Belles soeeer team rapidly gaining 
Ill0 nHHl tUIll. 
After two eonseeutive MIAA wins the Belles are hot and look to stop a similarly successful Olivet squad today at 4 P.M. at Saint Mary's Field. The Comets are in the midst of a three­game winning streak over MIAA teams Adrian College, Kalamazoo, and Tri-State University. 
They have not surrnndered a goal in those three games, outs1:oring opponents <J-0. Their last loss eamn to league power­house Calvin College in a lop­sided 6-1 defeat. 
In response to shutting out their opponents for over 270 eonsecutive minutes, the MIAA reeognized Olivet defender Staeey Stkkney as the defensive 
WriteS Call Mike at· 
player of the week. had a bad loss at their place 
The junior mid fielder has also and everyone still remembers contributed on the other side of that," senior Carrie Orr said. the ball eonsishmtly throughout "We are not going to let them her earner. come to our home field and let 
In a 4-1 win over Saint Mary's them do that to us." last year, Stickney scored all The Comets am in the midst four goals for the Comets on her of a meteoric rise up the MIAA way to third plaee in the MIAA ladder. The two years prior to scoring crown with 12 goals 2004, they posted a horrific 2­
and throe assists.  18  record  and  
"Stacey is om1 of  lived in the cellar  
our most talented players," Comets' coach Hans Morgan said.  "We are not going to let down just because we won the  of the MIAA standings. But they currently hold a 3-3 record  
"I am expecting her to do some  past two games. "  and will undoubt­edly provide a  
diiTerent things on the field than she  Carrie Orr  challenge to the up-surging Belles.  
has done in  the  Belles midfielder  "We  are  not  

past. I want her to be more involved in. _us h~.ving a more productive ollense. 
Olivet lost only one player from last year's 8-12 team. 
There arc 16 returning varsi­ty lettermen from a team that split last season's series with the Belles -a 4-1 loss on the road and a 6-3 victory at home. 
But the Belles refuse to let a previous letdown affect their future. 
"Against Olivet last year we going to let down 
just because we . won the past two games," Orr said. "We saw some stuff to work on and to improve upon." 
If Saint Mary's follows through on its word and knocks off the upstart Comets, it will mov-e ahead of Olivet in the MIAA standings with a 3-1 record to the Comets' 3-2 standing. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
MSPS 

FINE ART'S LECTURE SERIES 
Date: Time: Where: Cost: 
Presents 

Hector Cantii 
"EmpoweringThe Future" 
By creator of the 
comic strip Baldo 

Wednesday, September 21 7:ooP.M. 
and we just didn't do those well enough."
Irish 

Once Notre Damn gets continued from page 24 around to evaluating its nnxt opponent, coaches will find a blocking, tackling -all of 1-2 squad hungry for a win the aspects of the game the in its fourth-straight home Irish coaching stai'f' prides game to open Tyrone itself on addressing. Willingham's l'irst season as 
Following Notre Dame's head coach. win against Michigan two The Huskins have strug­weekends ago, gled to put 
Weis was entire games pleased with his "Eventually it's together so far, defense's winning con­
. going to come
aggressiveness vincingly
down to blocking
in "flying to the against Idaho ball," something and tackling and on Saturday he and his staff 134-6) but los­
throwing and 
have empha­ing to Cal in a
catching and
sized through route (56-17) spring and fall running.,, and Air Foree practice and in a 20-17 into the game heartbreaking
Charlie Weis 
weeks. opener.
Irish coach 
He also said after beating the Wolverines that even when Michigan quarterback Chad Henne was not bning directly chased, the Irish defensive line continued to pressure the pocket backward. 
In Saturday's loss to Michigan State, however, Stanton had ample time to find receivers and spread the field, a style or play Notre Dame's entire defense -the ·line and secondary, in particular-struggled with. 
"The bottom · line is whether they bunch you up or spread you out, if you do proper things fundamentally and with proper techniques, X's and O's and schemes only do so much," Weis said. "Eventually it's going to come down to blocking and tackling and throwing and catching and running. 
"It's going to come down to the things that we all know, 
Schedule 
continued from page 24 
Tennessee at the Joyce Center Dee. 31, and games against Big Ten ·members Wisconsin (Dee. 4) and Purdue (Dec. 7), both on the road. 
But the real focus for the Irish will be fig­uring out the 

"/ think that our 
new Big East just glad to teams schedule is going havn gnograph­DePaul, ically a lot
to be even more 
Marquette, more schools in
challenging this 
South Florida the Midwest." and Louisville year than last year Otlwr tough 
are joining the in the Big East." Big East gamns 
conference this will bn Hutgers. year for the who Notrn 
Muffet McGraw
first time with Damn plays on the departures Irish coach thn road, and 
of Boston College, Virginia Tech and Miami to the ACC. The Irish play DePaul, who finished 26-5 last season, twice while they face the other three once each Marquette, Cincinnati and South Florida at home and Louisville and Cincinnati on the road. 
"I think it's going to be a lot harder for us in terms of scouting because we're obviously very familiar with the other teams in the league, and now we've got to learn from top to bottom five new teams," McGraw said. "Wn have played Marquette before, but that's it." 
And the two gamns with DePaul will renew another past rivalry as the Irish faen Doug Bruno's Con!'nrencc 
Washington led its first game 17-6 with 

10:43 rnmaining in the fourth quarter. only to drop the contest. 
Weis no doubt. will have more to say on his next opponent this afternoon in his second press eonfnronee of the week. But on Sunday, he was not linishnd reacting to his first loss as a head coach at any level. 
"To be honest with you, I was disappointed, disap­pointed for our team," he said. "Because when you rally like that and you're having such a eomnbaek likn that, you'd say wnll. 'what if's' ... But you know we did­n't deservn to win." 
And the work bngins immediately to makn sure Notre Dame desnrvns it in Seattle, Wash. on Saturday. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
USA championship team. 
"DePaul used to be a big rival, so now we're going to learn about their team all over again," McGraw said. "These are some of the bnst teams corning out of Conference USA, and so it's going to be intnresting to see how they'rn going to play against eaeh othnr and how they're going to play against the Big East itself'. I'm 
Conneetieut, 

who the Irish only have to play oneo at home. The Irish have strug­gled with the Scarlet Knights on the road, losing both last year and twieo in 2004. 
"We'vo got somn great teams," MeGraw said of the Big East. "I think Hutgors will be a top-five team this year; Conneetieut is always a good tnam. And with those teams eoming in, botwonn DePaul, Marquntto, Louisville, Cineinnati and South Florida, I think that our schedule is going to bn even morn ehallnnging this year than last y1~1tr in tho Big East." 
Contact Headier Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 20, 2005 
Stanford 
continued from page 24 
them to points. 
The most eventful happening of the first half was the injury of Dillon player Jim Yeznik, who had to be driven off the field. 
lt was not until the end of the third quarter that either team came close to scoring. 
Duffy was able to complete a first down for Dillon, moving it to the 15-yard line. Cushing followed with a long run then handed-off to Duffy to put Dillon at the goal line. Dillon recovered its own fumble on the ensuing but lost 12 yards in the process. 
Several plays later, the Big Red missed a field goal. 
The Stanford offense then took over and was able to do something they hadn't done the entire game -complete a pass. Salvi threw to Frankenfeld, who caught the ball over a Dillon defender and ran 60 yards for the winning touchdown with five minutes remaining in the game. Stanford was unable to make the extra point. 
Dillon responded with Duffy once again pushing the ball up the field until Cushing threw another interception. 
Dillon held the Stanford offense completely and blocked a punt to record a safety and its only points of the game. But with 1:10 remaining, the Griffins caught an interception to seal the win. 
"I knew we would win, but then I was starting to think it would be another 0-0 tie like last year," Stanford captain Phil McNicholas said. "And then we scored a touchdown. It felt good." 
And although they suffered a tough loss, Dillon players walked away with optimism for the next game. 
"We played solid the entire game," Duffy said. "We ran good routes. We just couldn't punch anything through. We will definitely come out and play better next time. It was just the first game and we were getting all the kinks out." 
O'Neill 13, Alumni 6 
O'Neill used two touchdowns from tight end Alex Fortunado to defeat Alumni Sunday. 
The Dawgs scored first on a ten-yard passing play from Kerger Truesbell to team cap­tain Ryan McGettigan, but it was the only points. they could manage as the Angry Mob defense intercepted two Dawg passes. 
"We were passing the ball too much, and they blitzed us really well," McGettigan said. 
"Our defense stepped up big today," O'Neill captain Matt Hughey said. "They really tight­ened up." 
O'Neill's two touchdowns both came on passing plays in a game that saw two blocked extra points (one by each team) and a lot of passing. 
"At times, both teams strug­gled to run the ball," Hughey said. "There were a lot more passing plays in this game than average." 
The Angry Mob excelled through the air, making things tough on Alumni's defensive backfield. 
"The [defensive line] played great, but our secondary had a rough day," McGettigan said. "We just lost track of a receiver. [Fortunado] just slipped through the coverage." 
"O'Neill's commitment in prac­tice and overall effort showed Sunday according Hughey. l-Ie cited a fourth down and long, 
hard run for a first down by Christian Brown. "He kept fighting and fight­ing," Hughey said. 
Even though the Dawgs lost the game, there were many bright spots in their play, and McGettigan still feels that they can put together a great sea­son. 
"We played great for ninety percent of the game," he said. "Just a couple of bad plays killed us." 
McGettigan pointed out hard­working players like Andrew Breslin and Pat Sullivan on offense and Dan Peck, who had an interception on defense, as players who stepped up and give the Dawgs hope. 
Keenan 14, Keough 0 
Receiver Dan Zenker caught two touchdown passes from quarterback Rob Coly, and the stiff Knights defense kept the Kangaroos scoreless as defend­ing champion Keenan opened with a victory over Keough Sunday. 
After John Wood intercepted a Keough pass in the third quarter, Coly hooked up with Zenker for the duo's second score of the day. 
The first score came after a Keough punt early in the first quarter as Keenan's defense dominated the game. 
Keenan started with the ball in the second half but punted, pinning Keough down inside the twenty. Despite the poor field position, the Kangaroos put together a drive, gaining a first down -their first of the game -on two consecutive Keenan offsides penalties. 
Keough followed it up with another first down on the ground, another through the air, and the drive came to an end with a fourth-down stop by the Keenan defense. 
The Knights didn't hold the ball for long, though, fumbling on the second play. Again, the Keenan defense stepped up, with Joe Pappas recording his second sack of the game and Wood intercepting a pass and returning it to give his team excellent field position This set Coly up to connect with Zenker for the final score of the game. 
The Knights recovered a Kangaroos fumble on the sec­ond play of the game and marched down the field, hand­ing the ball off to bruising tail­back Alex Staffierei, who gained first down after first down before fumbling on the goal line. 
The rest of the half was uneventful, with both teams going three and out -Keough twice -before Keenan got the ball back with just a few min­utes left on the clock. The Knights put themselves in good position with a long reception by freshman Jim Zenker, Dan's brother. 
But with time expiring, Keenan's field goal attempt was blocked. Neither team was able to quickly recover the ball on the bizarre play, in which the ball repeatedly slipped out of the hands of players from both teams and was kicked and chased down the field for about forty yards before Keenan suc­cessfully fell on the ball to e:qd the half. 
Afterwards, Dan Zenker had a lot to say about his team's winning effort. 
"We have very high expecta­tions, so we have a lot of work left to do," he said. "We've real­ly got to step it up next week." 
Contact Catherine Kane at 
ckane2@nd.edu, Joe Piarulli at 
jpiarull@nd.edu and 
Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 
PW 
continued from page 24 
defense brought out its best effort in the red zone and forced turnovers on downs. 
"I am very proud of our defense," Popik said. "They pitched a shutout and played with great intensity. Our offense is still in development. We obviously need to make adjustments there, but overall I saw a lot of good things to take away from the game." Though they could not put the ball in the endzone, Pasquerilla West gained sig­nificantly more yards then Farley and did not turn the ball over. 
The Purple Weasel defense prevented the Finest from making much progress by forcing Popik into hurried throws and coming up with two more interceptions. 
"Our offense was okay," cap­tain Heather Van Hoegarden said. "They just couldn't fin­ish, but it will come with time and practice. Our defense really stepped up and won us the game." 
They look to put together a win streak against Pangborn next Thursday, while Farley attempts to right the ship against McGlinn. 
McGlinn 20 Pasquerilla West 0 
Quarterback Becky Brown threw for three touchdowns to lead McGlinn over Pasquerilla East Sunday. 
What was initially a back and forth game took a quick turn in the Shamrocks favor. On the first play after a goal­line stand, Brown threw from her own end zone and con­nected with freshman Jen Fedyna for a 78-yard touch­down pass. McGlinn never looked back. The Pyros, who had trouble preventing big plays last year, were undone by the passing game again. 
Brown consistently was able to find the open receiver and finished the game with over 125 yards passing. Before halftime, she connected with Liz Maher on fourth down for a ten-yard touchdown pass. Later, Brown again found Fedyna for a long pass to the five-yard line. The pair con­nected three plays later for Brown's third touchdown pass of the game to make the score 20-0. 
"We have a lot of good receivers that are hard to defend," Nason said. "That's probably our team's best asset." 
While the offense was ,in fine form, the Shamrock defense was equally impressive. 
"We have a lot of athletes and a lot of experience on defense, and we just came out very focused," Nason said. 
The athletic ability of the Shamrock defense was obvi­ous as they applied constant pressure to the Pyro offense. Pasquerilla East attempted a mixture of running and pass plays, but neither was suc­cessful as its offense was held to under 50 total yards. 
The Pyros used multiple quarterbacks throughout the game but nothing could spark the offense, which finished with three interceptions and punted. twice. 
If the win was any indica­tion, McGlinn is well on its way to making up for missing the playoffs last year. 
"This year, we are more focused, more intense, and we are taking it one game at a time," Nason said. 
Welsh Family 24 Breen-Phillips 0 
Slightly less than a year after exiting in the semifinals of the playoffs, Welsh Family made a strong statement to the rest of the women's inter­hall Gold League on Sunday. 

Returning key players from last year's squad including senior quarterback Melissa Sands, the Whirlwinds smoked the Babes of Breen-Phillips, 24-0, in both teams' season­opener. 
"I think we made a good statement for the first game of the year," sophomore wide receiver Kelly Bushelle said. "We prepared well in practice during the week." 
It didn't take long for Welsh Family to score its first points of the 2005 season. They punched in a touchdown on their first possession. 
All afternoon, the Whirlwinds dominated. The defense intercepted errant passes, and the offense rolled behind Sands' accuracy and patience. She threw four touchdown passes and two to Bushelle. 
Sands connected with Bushelle for two, 10-yard touchdown passes on back-to­hack drives to open the game. Breen Phillips struggled to get an offense going against fired­up Welsh Family. 
Later in the game, Sands launched another touchdown pass, this time to Maggie Forester. 
While the offense was at a pinnacle, the defense deserved credit as well, Bushelle said. 
There's a long way to go before either team can start making playoff plans, but, after one game, they at least have an idea of where they stand. 
"We're excited for the rest of the season," Bushelle said. 
Contact Ben Vincent at 
bvincent@nd.edu, 
Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd.edu and 
Tom Dorwart at 
tdorwart@nd.edu 

Wednesday, September 21st 

presents 

l;'L BiU lJcs C .S.C. & l\1r# Bill Pun~eU from the Center for Social Concerns 

,..,Wealth and the Christian Life,.., 

CM 
C~mptu M!11io:try · · ·'· ·., 

t .L:~.,ends Doors Open at 9:30pm;' r'1starts -1O:OOpm Free soft-dri~~.7i,)~.o.:n· ':""' u~ cash bar 
. \':•--·.·· _;w·:::~ ~;::;/ . 

Can't make it? More to.come on 9/28 and 10/5 
DI'SPLf>.'/·  
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  33 Stubble  59 Choose, with  
Nonsensical talk  remover  "to"  
5 Film repair 11 Lighter brand  34 "Silent" prez 35 Haloed one, in France  60 Comedian Russell 61 Faucet brand  
14 Quick approval: Abbr.  36 Naturally belong 37 Kind of milk  DOWN  
15 Family support group  38 Family dog, for short  1 Sails on sloops 2 Memo starter  
16" Beso" (Paul Anka hit) 17 Place for rolls  39 Stiff hairs 40 Model wood 41 Ward denizen  3 Goes (for) 4 H H H, to Greeks  
19 U.S.P.S. delivery 20 Congressional penods  43 Anne who married Henry VIII 44 Socks  5 Wooden shoes 6 Floor sketches 7 Girl  
21 Mary Lou of gymnastics 23 Range units: Abbr. 24 Do a pre-op chore  45 Part of a jazz combo 46 Summarizes 48 "Watch out now" 53 de toilette 54 Numbskull  a Octopus's defense 9 Force 10 One matriculating 11 A cowboy might have a big one  
25 Washes with detergent  56 Hosp. picture 57 Household  12 Middle of a ratio 13 Word that can  ~~~=-J!I!II~-1--'---...L--JL--..J.....­ 
29 Tranquil state  helper  precede the  31 Violinist Mischa  42 Hearst kidnap  48 "Jabberwocky"  
32 Artery problems 58 Impulse ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  start of 17-or 54-Across or 11-or 27-Down 18 March of 22 When repeated,  33 Marriage and others 36 Literally, "wind and water"  grp. 43 Business that makes a lot of dough 45 Hawkins  start 49 Buddy 50 Prefix with nautical  

 a reproach  37 Mule of song  Day  51 Craze  

 24 "The World of _Wong" ( 1 960 movie) 25 Resell illegally  39 Noted Warhol subject 40 Pug, e.g.  46 San _, Italy 47 O.K. Corral lawman  52 Genesis home 55 Facing: Abbr.  

 26 Of an arm bone  

Tuesday, September 20, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
The Observer apologizes for Jockular's absence. The comic strip will resume in Wednesdav's newspaper. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
1-\E-'1 , I'LL 1-\A'~E. S\F?-, C L-EARL'f ~E. 1\ ·n..lR\;:..e-'1 ON ON\..'l 1-\1\\11'-ll;t\L\1-\N 'WHE=-AT-LETT, /\"::> E.\IIDI:.NlEI) E>'i 0"-\ ~ BK.E.A D ~l-E.CTION 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a27 Treat for a trick credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
28 Jeanne Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundayd'Arc 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 29 Persian Gulf Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 state past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 30 Part of a simple Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young bouquet solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, lN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ______________ State ______ Zip__________ 
I LOPARR 
±
I [I J 
WHEN C.AN EVENING 
WWW.Jumble.com 
C.L-OTHES BE SEEN?

tENBLIM Now arrange the circled leiters to lorm the surprise answer, asIIJ I I suggested by the above cartoon 

ArxxxxJrxxrxxxJ 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles SKUNK AORTA LAYOFF UNPACK Yesterday's Answer: 
What the sailor experienced when his broken leg healed -A CAST OFF 
EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 

Cl•:U:BRITIES BOHN ON TillS llAY: Kevin Zegers, 21, Al1snn Sweeney, 
29: Jimmy Fallon, 31, Trisha Yearwood . .J I 
llappy Birthday: You will suffer some lim1tat1ons if you aren't \\ell orgam,-cd 
or ifyou take on too much this year Pace yourself and be prucucal about \\hal 
you can and can't do. Make the changes you know Will g1w you more yua!Jiy 
time with friends and family. Your numbers arc 7. 26. 2K. 33. 40, 46 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You will owrreuct at an emotJtmallcvcl so. he fore 
you let that happen. back away from whatever or whoever IS dnvmg you crazy 
Control your life instead of let ling others do it for you. and you will aciHcvc 
what you set out to do•• • 

TAliRliS (April 20-May 20): Someone will withhold 1nforma11on that you 
really need Don't put up w1th anyone who gives you the runaround lkal111g 
wilh large companies, inslitutions or authonty f1gurcs will prove to be t.lJI'i'Jt:uli 
1fyou don't have all the fuels ••• 

GEMINI (1\lay 21-.June 20): Someone may try to push you 111 the \\rong 
direction. Your ability to do things spontaneously will be whal keeps you tn the 
lead The more expressive and crcallvc you arc. ihe harder 1t will be for others 
to disregard your plans. •••• 

CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): You may know what you have to do, but gcllmg 
dm\n to business and makmg things happen won't be that easy You can expect 
opposition. Don't hold yourself back by refusing to take orders or acccrt 
suggestions. •• 

LEO (.July '23-Aug. 22): Traveling aboul will lead to the most ga111s lloth 
business and personal matters can be cleared up w1th a little Leo charm courlcd 
w1th a little elbow grease. Listen to what others have to say. and take control to 
make sure everything goes according to plan. ••••• 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The onus will be on money, health and legal matters 
today. Just do what you have to do. The sooner you get everything 111 order. the 
better you will feel and the more art you are to succeed • • • 
LlBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will do everything in a big way today. but make 
sure that you don't also complain about thmgs that you know I illle abou1 Think 
about any emotional matter. but don't criticize or blame others Money matters 
can be resolved today••• 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a look at your opt1ons If you want to make 
a change that will ensure a better future lor you emotionally and creatively, now 
is the time. Don't hold back because you aren't sure. ••• 
SAGITTARiliS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You arc in control and ready to take action 
Travel, learning and commumcattons will be your best bet. A competitive event 
will allow you to show your skills and endurance. ••••• 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): You will have some fabulous suggestions, 
but someone will be jealous of you and may try to take credtt for whal you do 
Emotional matters at home must be dealt with m a very understanding and 
compassionate manner. • • 

AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll be eager to learn all you can about 
someone who interests you. Taking on a creative proJect may end up costmg you 
more than you can aftord. Someone who wants to get to kno\\ you better wtll 
reveal how he or she feels •••• 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Money matters can be resolved w1th a little 
creative bookkeeping. The chance to make a change lor your future and your 
career path appears to be positive A partnershtp will be to your bene lit and brmg 
financial rei ief ••• 

Birthday Baby: You are constant, creative and ready for whatever comes your 
way. You can adapt quickly and yet remain stable. steadfast and Joyal 
J~·uJ,:enia'.\· Wch slle:c a.wroaclvu·e.,·om for fim. I!IIX,t'ntala.,·t c.:omfor coutldc!lllwl L'OII.HIItatum.' 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words 
YOIRN 

[J 
~005 Tribune Med1a Services, In£ All Rights Reserved 
MAGEL 
± 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 20, 2005 
page 24 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Defensive delight 
Offenses sluggish as 
Bulfin's interception Stanford knocks off return paces PW as Dillon in opener Farley fails to score 
By CATHERINE KANE By BEN VINCENT, 
JOE PIARULLI and GREG ARBOGAST and 
TIM KAISER TOM DORWART 
Sports Writers Sports Writers 
After last season's 0-0 tie What looked to be a game of between Dillon and Stanford, trading touchdowns turned most people predicted a similar into a defensive struggle as outcpme in 2005. They were Pasquerilla West defeated almost right. Farley. 6-0, in women's inter­
Stanford beat Dillon, 6-2, in hall Gold League play Sunday. men's interhall Gold League . On the first drive of the game, action Sunday as Griffin quar­Farley captain and quarter­terback Brian Salvi tossed a 60-back Katie Popik was inter­yard touchdown to receiver cepted by Pasquerilla West's Matt Frankenfeld late in the Brigid Bulfin, who ran the ball fourth quarter. The Big Red back nearly fifty yards for a blocked a punt for a safety but touchdown. it was too little, too late. That proved to be the only 
Dillon did a better job offen­score of the game as both sively of moving the ball up the defensive lines harassed the field with running back Alex opposing quarterbacks all Duffy and quarterback Kenny game and prevented many Cushing tallying the majority of good looks. the yards for the team. Yet the Pasquerilla West combatted entire first and second quarters this pass rush with some effec­passed with neither team even tive reverses and completed threatening to score. enough passes to put them­
Each team had two intercep­selves in scoring position sev­tions but was unable to convert eral times. But the Farley
MATI Observer 

A Dillon player, left, shifts ground during the Big Red's 6-2 loss to Stanford Sunday. At right, see STANFORD/page 22 Pasquerilla West quarterback Cara Davies sets to throw during PW's 6-0 win over Farley. see PWIpage 22 
FOOTBALL 
Irish attempting 
to mend mistakes 
Trip to Seattle looms, but team tries to put errors behind itself 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Washington gave up more points in Week 2 to California 
(56) than it ever has before in a single game at Husky Stadium. Notre Dame scored 41 points last Saturday. 
But Irish coach Charlie Weis knows game preparation is not that simple, even if he's only been a head coach for three regular season games. 
"If we continue to play like that," Wcis said Sunday of Saturday's 44-41 overtime loss to Michigan State, "if we don't play better fundamentally and we don't play better with bet­ter techniques, ]weJ could lose to everybody." 
Despite record-breaking performances Saturday by quarterback Brady Quinn and wide receiver Maurice Stovall, Notre Dame did not capitalize on late-game chances. 
More glaringly, the defense couldn't stop the Spartans offense for the majority of the afternoon. Michigan State quarterback Drew Stanton threw for 327 yards and three touchdowns. 
"This week, besides getting ready for an opponent, our point of emphasis is going to be ... fixing ourselves," Weis said at the next-day press conference. 
That means more work on fundamentals -footwork, 
see IRISH/page 21 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
New tea111s stiffen 2005-06 slate 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
In their first year in the revised Big East Conference, the Irish will once again play a tough schedule that includes games against nine teams that made the N C A A Tournament last season. 
"It's really challeng­ing," Irish c o a c h Muffet M c G r a w McGraw 
said of the schedule released Monday. "I think the Big East is going to have a great year." 
The Irish open the season on Nov. 1 with an exhibition game against Divisi.on-11 Indianapolis at the Joyce Center. They go on to play another Division-11 opponent, Ferris State, before the regu­lar season opener against rival Michigan at the Joyce Center on Nov. 18. This game will be played at 9 p.m. after the pep rally for the Notre Dame-Syracuse football game that Saturday. 

"It's a natural rivalry for Notre Dame," McGraw said. "I think the fans are always 
NOVEMBER 
--------···c···--TU~s 
INDIANAPOLIS (exlubiuou) 10 Thurs FERRIS STATE (exlubinon) 18 Fn. MICHIGAN lO Sun. at Wesrem Mtclugan 2:.l Wed at !ndJaOa '!.7 Sun. usc ~9 Tue-s IONA 
DECEMBER 4 Sun at Wis:OODsm 7 Wed at Purdue 17 Sat vs. Arkansas State 18 Sun. 
'''· North Carolma 
:!8 WE'd VALPARAISO 
31 Sat. TE'iNESSEE 
JANUARY
·· 4 ....v..,, 
atSt,Jl?l!!;)· ..... 7 Sat. SETON HALL 10 Tues. MARQUETTE I~ Sat at L>lti.,viUe 17 Tues DePAUL 
~I Sat. at Georgetown ~4 Tue-s at Rmgers ~8 Sat SOVTH FLORIDA 31 Tues at Syrar.use 
excited about seeing a rival team like that, and being fairly close, I think that for their fans to be able to make the trip will be a fun game as well." 
Other non-conference games are against 2005 Final Four member 
see SCHEDULE/page 21 
FEBRUARY
----:r-··sat PROVIDENCE 
7 Tues VILLANOVA 1l Sw1 at DePaul 19 Suu CO!I<'NECllCUT 21 Wed. at West VlfB',inia ::'.5 Sat atCmcmnatJ 2ll T.,.. PITTSBURGH 
MARCH 
.......... .\...... Sat 
B\G EAST First Round 
5 sw .. 
6 MOIL 7 Tnes 18-11 
Sat.-Tu... 
···l'i•28 Satifues 
APRIL i Sun 4 Tue.. 


en 
SMC SOCCER WOMEN'S INTERHAll MEN'S iNTERHAll SMC VOU..EYBAU NFL NFL 
a: "' z s Uol 
Zahm 14 Giants 27 Defending champion Carroll12 Saint Mary's braces Texans fire offensive Saints 10Saint Mary's looks to Walsh opens its season Rabid Bats feast on itself for a four-game coordinator Chris New Orleans commits 
' defend its home turf 

against Lewis tonight at Vermin as receiver Jake home stand, with three Palmer after two losses six turnovers in 'home' against MIAA foe Olivet
= 
8 p.m. at Riehle West. Richardville hauls in matches against MIAA to open the new season. game played at the cc at 4 p.m. today. 
winning TO pass. opponents. Meadowlands. 
= 
page 21 page 19 page 18 page 17 page 17 page 16 





