.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 66 TUESDAY. DECEMBER 6, 2005 

Queer Film Festival is examined 
University committee, FTT department discuss possible changes to controversial event 
John Jenkins, UniversityBy MADDIE HANNA spokesman Matt Storin said Associate News Editor Monday. While Storin said discussions Arter hosting the Queer Film are occurring with the pre­
Festival for the past two years sumption the event will go on ­
-prompting campus debate "It's not my impression there is 
over academic freedom and the any discussion of canceling," he 
Catholic Church's stance on 
said -one issue he said admin­
homosexuality-Notre Dame is istrators have addressed direct­now holding discussions with ly is the event's title. the Film, Television and Theatre "I think [the committee 
Department about potential believes] the title in use, partic­changes to the event's third ularly in part 'festival,' may lead installment, ollicials said. [to confusion overl the differ­
The February festival, which ence between academic exami­features films by gay and les­nation of gay and lesbian films bian artists intended to stimu­as opposed to taking a position
late dialogue, has in recent on what is a controversial weeks been the subject of talks [topicl on campus ... or within between members of the FTT the Catholic Church," Storin Department and a committee on said. "I think there's a feeling
academic freedom created by University President Father see FESTIVAL/page 4 
ND students allotted 2,500 bowl tickets 

N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Revised resolution approved 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council passed two key rnsolutions Monday -one targeting non­Catholic student initiatives and the oth11r addrnssing the role of d'iversity in Notre Damn's dass­rooms. 
Chair of the Student Senate minority aiTairs eommitteP Hhna Boyd presented a resolution calling for the creation of a committee under tho Ol'lke of the Provost that would investi­gate how best to incorporate "cultural competencies" into the Notre Dame curricula. She clar­ified the scope and purpose of the resolution beforn members weighed in on its importance. 
The committee's members will be drawn from various groups on campus and will include students, faculty and administrative rnprnsnntativns. 
"We want to form a commit­tee to investigate how to lim~or­porate cuI tural corn potencies into the classroom),'' Boyd said. "One issue that has come up is the no(~d for a diversity rnquire­ment, but this docs not suggest a diversity requirement as the b(~St way to do this. it just asks, what is best way to incorporatP ldiversityl? It eould takn anum­ber of dil1'erent forms." 
The samn resolution passed in the Student Senate WNinesday, Nov. :~o. Snnatc nwmbers had asked for elarification on tho 
see CLC/page 4 

100 tickets available for SMC seniors 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN News Writer 
or the 15,000 Finsta Bowl tkk­oL'i allotted to Notn~ Damn, 2,500 of those will b(~ made available to Notr11 Damn studnnLo;; and 100 to Saint Mary's seniors, the ticket ollice announced Monday. 
According to Director of Ticket Operations .Josh BPrlo and an e­mail to all students, tho ticket ollkn is holding a lottery to give students the opportunity to buy tickets for tlw Jan. 2 BCS bowl game against Ohio State, Notre Dame's first BCS game in J'ive years. Students are allowed to bring one ID to Gate 10 of the Joyce Center on Wednesday from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. to get a raffle ticket. If their number is in the range of numbers chosen, they have the opportunity to buy two tiekeL'i on Thursday. 
Saint Mary's seniors will have the opportunity to purchase tick­eL<; from 1:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the Student Activities Office. Seniors may bring one other sen­ior ID with her to buy the tickets. Any leftover tickeL'i will be avail­abln to the rest of the Saint Mary's student body on Dec. 12, 
see LOTTERY Ipage 6 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Budget reallocations questioned 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 

Controversy marked the Council of Representatives (COR) meeting Monday night, as representatives voiced their dissatisfaction with the procedures taken by the Financial Management Board (FMBl to arrive at its new budget allocation, which affected the Judicial Council, Class of 2006, Senior Week, Hall Presidents Council, Class of 2008 and the Student Union Board (SUB). 
Representatives of Hall Presidents Council (HPCJ said that FMB did not follow proper proce­dures in iL'> reallocation meetings. 
"The process that went on dur­ing the reallocation meetings was-
see COR/page 6 


SMC security bun1ps 
up 24-hour parking 
alwa~.s full during the 
By KATIE KOHLER 

week. News Writer 
Students are now allowed to park in the last three 
In order to alleviate over­rows of the Hegina lot 24­crowded parking lots at the hours per day and do not College, Saint Mary's securi­need to move their vt~hidns 
ty has decided to increase during thn typically restriet­24-hour parking for students ed hours in other lots on 
on a trial basis by providing campus. additional spots in the "In the rest oftlw IHeginal Hegina Lot, adjacent to the lot, students must move 
Hegina Hesidence Hall. their vehicles out between "This is only being done on 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. a trial basis," said director Monday through Friday," of Security Dave Chapman. Chapman said. "It gives students 55 more But there were some stipu­
parking spaces and was lations with the new policy. done to try and ease con­There arc times during spe­gested parking in other lots cial events on campus in 
because we observed that the Regina Lot was not see SPOTS/page 6 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, December 6, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Finals week: 
Chrishnas 

has arrived 
The definition of the "holiday sea­sou" seems to get progressively hazier with each year that passes. I realized this when I saw my first Christmas-themed commercial this year before Halloween. Since that fateful commer­cial, I have done Molly Griffin two things. Firstly, I have 
assistant
suffered from what I call 
scene editor 
"Christmas rage" because of the winter holidays being forcefully pushed on me pre-Halloween. And secondly, partially in response to this passive aggressive Christmas anger, I have thought long and hard about when the holidays should actually start and when they official­ly start for me. 
It seems that retailers would essentially like people to think of the holiday season as, well, basically the whole year. They restrain them­selves and usually wait until after Halloween to put out the Christmas decorations. Television stations start pushing holiday commercials before llalloween and holiday movies before Thanksgiving. 
Basically, I only have one rule for when the holiday season should ide­ally begin. I believe that the holiday season should not start before any other holiday, specifically Halloween and Thanksgiving. Inklings of the holidays can begin to creep in around Thanksgiving, but should be limited to the last two weeks of November. Christmas decorations should not supplant Halloween cos­tumes or Pilgrim hats in stores. No exceptions. 
With that, I also feel that even dur­ing the technical "holiday season," you can feel less than spirited. When Christmas starts creeping in around October, you start to either get tired of it or get so used to it that it seems like a normal part of your life instead of a few special weeks. 
I firmly believe that each person has a few rituals that make them feel like the holidays have finally started. In high school, it didn't feel like Christmas until my family and I braved the wilds outside of Reno, NV and cut our annual Christmas tree. 
Now that I'm in college, my "fami­ly" traditions have become a little bit different. The first night of bone­chilling, lung-stabbing cold makes me start thinking about the holidays. The first ugly-Christmas-sweater party makes me feel a little more festive. 
But it's really finals week that puts me in the holiday mood. It makes you appreciate your friends, because they can help you procrastinate. It allows you to enjoy good food, like Huddle candy for breakfast, pizza for any meal and caffeine all day. It also helps you appreciate the real reason for the season, religion, because who doesn't pray during finals week? 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgrij]in@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU THINK THE QUEER FILM FESTIVAL BELONGS AT NOTRE DAME? 



Mary Beugelstijk Dan McKernan Adams Burns Will Marra Sarah VanMill Tom Harkins 
sophomore freshman junior sophomore freshman sophomore Cavanaugh Zahm Zahm Zahm Cavanaugh Zahm 
"Yes, because it "Yes, I want it "Yes, because "As long as my "Yes, because it "No, it belongs highlights our in Zahm." we need more "Call on Me" brings at OSU" 

diversity. " 

Cabbie bites off finger in dispute about crowding 
COPENHAGEN, Denmark -A taxi driver in Denmark bit off the tip of a 48-year-old man's finger in a brawl over how many people could fit in the cab, police said Monday. 
The dispute started early Sunday morning, when a group of five men hailed a taxi in downtown Odense, a city in central Denmark. 
Police said things got out of hand when the 37 -year-old driver insisted he could only take four passengers. It was not dear who started the fight, but the 48-year-old man claims he grabbed the driver by the collar after the 
TODAY 
a:: 
IJ.I :::J: 
~ 
IJ.I 

~ 
_, 
<C 
(.) 


0 



exposure to campaign video awareness to different things is there that's diversity. " 
here at Notre fine by me." Dame. " 

TIM SULLIVANrThe Observer 

Posters advertising for CSC Christmas break seminars have bee~ dis~ributed throughout campus encouraging students to apply for programs m cit1es like Chicago, New York City, El Paso, TX, and Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. 
OFFBEAT 
like glimmering icicles. Not Carson Williams. 
He spends nearly two months hooking up 25,000 lights, then programs them to dance to Christmas music. 
Hundreds of ears drive by his house north of Cincinnati every night to see the dis­play, which also is posted on several Internet sites. 
"So far, everyone's been really courteous," Williams said on NBC's "Today" "show Monday. "I told the neigh­bors, I told the sheriff, ifthey get any complaints, I'll shut it down, because the neigh­bors are more important to me than the Christmas lights." 

driver acted aggressively and spat at him, police said. 
The driver, who was bruised but not seriously injured, said the man grabbed him by the jaw with his left hand and punched him with other hand. The driver claims he accidentally bit off the tip off the man's ring finger in the commotion, police said. 
Ohioan gets serious about Christmas lights 
MASON, Ohio -Some people at Christmas time are content to deck their homes with evergreen wreaths and holly, and maybe a few strings of lights made to look 
..... HIGH 18 
LOW 10 

15 8 


22 13 

TONIGHT WENESDAY THURSDAY 

26 14 
IN BRIEF 

The NO Breastfeeding Encouragement Support Team (BEST) will meet from 12 p.m. to 1 today in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. BEST supports nursing and pregnant moms at Notre Dame and babies are welcome to meetings. E-mail Tracy Weber at tweberl@nd.edu to be added to the BEST listserv and get more information. 
The Institute for Latino Studies is sponsoring an exhib­it of vintage posters created by Latino artists in the Galeria America in McKenna Hall today from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
A seminar titled "Surfactant Facilitated Spreading of Aqueous Drops on Model Hydrophobic Surfaces" will be given today by Alexander Couzis, professor of chemical engineering at the City College of New York. It wil begin at 
3:30 p.m. in room 140 DeBartolo Hall. 
A "Christmas at the CoMo" benefit concert will be held Wednesday, Dec. 7 in the Hammes Student Lounge of the Coleman Morse Center from 8 p.m. to 9. NO Celebration and instrumental­ists will perform, and the pub­lic is invited to attend. 
In anticipation of the film premier of "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe," Fr. Charles Gordon will give a talk entitled "Anticipating Narnia" Thursday at 8 p.m. in room 102 DeBartolo Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

26 14 

HIGH LOW 

Tuesday, December 6, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group approves co-Sponsorship of 12-hour dance marathon 
Despite some misgivings, $2,500 allocated for fund raiser, to benefit patients at Riley's Children's Hospitals 
By KELLY MEEHAN N~ws Writer  Fadlity to raise funds for Riley's Children's I lospital. The money gathered from the event would  the event because all incoming donations go entirely to the hos­pital, she said.  Missions commissioner Jenny Robbins, however, felt that the event would benetit the College  er Kate Wallach said she felt there were tight time issues that would hinder the event from  
help the hospital maintain its  She  also  said  that  when  community.  taking place five months from  
Saint  Mary's  Board  of  mission to  never turn a child  Purdue began the event, they  "Events like this are what co­ now.  
Governance met Monday night  away regardless of their family's  did not break even, however in  sponsorships were started for,  "They need to talk to other  
to approve a $2,500 co-sponsor­ financial status, Dardinger said.  the long run, it paid otT.  but lately it seems we have only  places soon because it will be  
ship for the initiation of a  12­ Together,  Dardingcr  and  "We would  been sponsoring  difficult to get the donations  
hour dance marathon set to take phu:e in April that will ben­nlit Hiley's Children's Hospitals.  Johnson have organized a dance marathon committee of approximately 30 students who  have to start small and grow as  "/think that it would be so cool to start this event  students partici­pating in one­time event," she  they need before April," she said. The Board voted to give the  
The Hiley Dance Marathon is a volunteer event that takes place at colleges and universi­ties throughout Indiana. Hesidence Hall Association serv­ice chair Amy Dardinger and  will work to raise necessary funds for the event. Dardinger said the event is not just for the marathon dancers, but would be an overnight event of food and  y e a r s passed," she s a i d "Through advertising and cooper­ here with our own funding. When we ask Notre Dame for money, ND is branded all over the event. "  s a i d "[Sponsorships] were originally for things that would have a long term bene- Riley Dance Marathon commit­tee $2,500, with five members abstaining from voting on the issue. "I feel that the event could bn so much more successful if it  
First-Year  Class  President  music for all students and facul­ ation,  we  fit  for  the  took place in the fall," Senior  
Francesca  ty,  along  with  would even­ Katie Kelly  College and ere- Class president Lauren Condon  
Johnson hopn children from the to bring the "So many schools are hospital. event to the To participate,getting on board with College. marathonthis service project, so" M a n y dancers must schools across why aren't we?" write letters to the state par­family and ticipatn in this friends to requestAmy Dardlnger event, which donations that service chairraises thou­will be sent sands of dol­Residence Hall Association directly to the lars for Riley's hospital. lllospitalsl," J o h n s o n Dardinger said. "So many explained to the board that the schools are getting on board most difficult aspect of the with this serviee project, so why marathon is its initial organiza­arnn't we?" tion. The event requires cater­Their goal for the dance ing, hiring a D.J. and security marathon event is to gather at guards, along with other miscel­ tually be Women Issues Commissioner ate a legacy." able to find Women Issues a balance of Commissioner giving and taking funds." Katie Kelly agreed. Due to their already strained "I think that it would be so budget, the Board had a mixed cool to start this event here with reaction to the idea of co-spon­our own funding," she said. soring the event. "When we ask Notre Dame for "I feel that their plans for this money, NO is branded all over event are not concrete," Student the event." Activities Board president Robbins said that the money Megan Cahill said. "I just don't needed to start the event would think that they should ask for all be challenging for the group to this money from us." fmd from other places. Junior Class president Heidi "No one gives people money to Goeppinger agreed. She said start an original, brand new vol­Student Government had unteer event, they give money already planned volunteer once the event is planned," she events with Habitat for said. "I think it is best if we give  said. "It could be more benefi­cial, and it could beeome a huge event with more time to plan and fundraise." Student Body President Kellye Mitros said she would pass along Condon's suggestion to the committee. In other BOG news: + Various student government clubs will be selling eoiTee and snacks in Trumper during linals week as part of "Treats in Trumper" fundraiser. + Lessons and Carols will take plaee this Sunday in Loretto at 7:30p.m.  
least  100 participants who  laneous expenses. It would  Humanity  and  the  dance  them the money and consider it  
would dance from 6 p.m. until 6  prove diflicult for the College to  marathon committee should  part of a contingency plan."  Contact Kelly Meehan at  
a.m.  in  the Angela Athletic  regain the money they put into  seek funds from other places.  Student Services commission­ kmeehaO I @saintrnarys.edu  


 
*Friday, December 9 f:9PM-11PM *Legends :k,.. Free t-shirts to the first 50 people D.J. -t1= Food** Dancing  


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Open St:udy Hours: 
last; scheduled exam "through t;he Regist:rar's Of"fice. Free IVIidnight; Snacks on st;udy days only!

ent te 
24 Non-t:echnology rooms, first; come/ first; serve 
See BuiLding SupporL Person if_vou have specific

Friday December 9,2005 
needs: Roo~n 103, 104. 
Coleman-1'-"'orse: 1st: Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Same dat-es as list:ed above. Al""ays-Free Snacks! 
7:00-9:00 pm 
Joyce Center Ice Rink 
O'Shaughnessy: Roo~ns avaiLabLefor open s~udy e.xcep~ -.vhen scheduLed by ~he Regis~rar ,s office.
Bnng your ID for FREE 
December 8 8:00am t;o 3:00am December 9 8:00am t;o 3:00am 
December 10 8:00am t;o 3:00am December 11 8:00am "to 3:00am Finals Week: December 12-16 Sam "to 3:00am Sunday 1:OOpm t;o 3:00am. lVIonday-Thursday 5:00pm-3:00am. Rooms: 204~ 206, 207~ 208, 209. 
dmission and skate rental 
•~nacks d:urzng .~~;udy I:lays co;ur~esy ~if-· 
Bu.<dne....... Opera~zons Ca1nf7:u... llfznz...·~r.Y S~;uden~ Union I3oard 
***Good Luck "'"'i~h Finals*** 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 



Festival 
continued from page 1 
there should be some care exercised." 
FTT Department chair Peter Holland did not return several calls seeking comment for this article. Several FTT professors declined to comment or did not return calls seeking comment. 
Graduate student Harry Karahalios, one of this year's Queer Film Festival organizers, said it was "too early" to pre­dict the results of the discus­sion. 
"All parties are in communi­cation," Karahalios said. "It's a very delicate situation." 

It's not clear what stage the The most recent news, she Dame's willingness to host the discussions have said, is that event "an abuse of academic reached, Storin said. the University freedom." 
"I've heard noth­and the FTT The administration has coun­
"They were not
ing to believe there's Department tered this argument by explain­any intentional really eager to let are compro­ing that the event is not delay" to the event us know what·s mising with University-sponsored but on the part of each other. housed under specific academ­
going on ... [I'm]
administrators, The Queer ic departments. Last year, the Storin said. not sure what·s Film Festival Festival was sponsored by the He said he true anymore. Even began three FTT Department, the Gay and believed the years ago in Lesbian Alumni/ae of the
a lot offaculty
University would try what co­University of Notre Dame and
don •t know what•s 
to resolve the discus­founder Liam Saint Mary's College (GALA sion "sooner rather going on. Dacey, a Notre ND/SMC), the English than later." Dame gradu-Department, the Anthropology 
Storin said the Female junior ate and then-Department, the History 
committee's creation senior FTT Department, the Counseling
enrolled in FTT classes major, said
was not a surprise. Center and the Gender Studies 
"As Father Jenkins has said, he named a committee ... to study the issue of having controversial topics examined at the University under the umbrella of academ­ic freedom, without creating a needless controversy," Storin said. 
Storin said he was not certain which administrators sit on the committee, but said he was "pretty sure" Dean of Arts and Letters Mark Roche is a com­mittee member. 
The Observer was unable to reach Roche for comment Monday. 
.Students who heard rumors of other proposed changes to the festival expressed confusion over what was actually hap­pening. 
Junior theatre major Krysta Dennis said some FTT students thought the University was try­ing to increase its control over FTT productions in a "goofy and disrespeetful" way. 
"I haven't talked to anyone who thinks it's a good idea," Dennis said, referring to the potential the University would change eertain parts of the Queer Film Festival. 
Dennis said while everything she knew was by word of mouth, she believed that "for the moment" the University and conferences" and said the had not proposed changes to event was an issue of academic the event's content. freedom. 

"But who knows what's going "The film festival is being co­on behind closed doors," she sponsored by a number of aca­
said. demic departments," he told 
A female junior enrolled in The Observer in February FTT classes who spoke on the 2004. "I think the fact that fac­condition of anonymity said ulty and students of the students had been kept in the University expressed interest dark about the discussions. [in this] is not exactly 'stop the 
"They were not really eager presses' news. It doesn't carry to let us know what's going on any message of endorsement or ... [I'm] not sure what's true disparagement ... by the anymore," she said. "Even a lot University." of faculty don't know what's But one year later, the going on." Festival attracted more press 
When the rumors of adminis­and sparked heated debate. trative intervention first hit, the Fort Wayne-South Bend junior said FTT students pre­Bishop John D'Arcy sent a let­dicted an increase in University ter to the South Bend Tribune censorship of FTT productions. on Feb. 10 calling Notre 
was an effort Program. Films were shown in 
to promote the DeBartolo Center for the awareness of Gay, Lesbian, Performing Arts. Transgender, Bisexual and "There are people who object Queer [GLTBQJ issues and com­to it and we respect those opin­bat stereotypes perpetuated by ions," Storin told The Observer Notre Dame's then-No. 1 rank last February. "But if we in the Prineeton Review's attempted to stop the culture of "Alternative Lifestyles Not an the United States of America in Alternative" category. the year 2005 at the gate on 
"We want to create an Notre Dame Avenue and on awareness that the gay mem­Juniper Road, not only would bers of the Notre Dame com­that be a fruitless exercise, but munity are members like any­we really wouldn't be prepar­one else," Dacey told The ing our students for the world Observer in February 2004. they're going to enter into." "We also wanted to exhibit a lot Anna Gomberg, graduate stu­of different films by gay artists dent and co-coordinator of the that you wouldn't normally see." 
While it was a first for the University, Storin compared the Queer Film Festival to a "[range] of classes, seminars 
Offering 
affordable 
flying lessons 
lnJm S.:...tb Bend Regional Airport 
unrecognized gay/straight stu­dent group AllianceND said Monday that the issue of aca­demic freedom at Notre Dame made her "a little nervous." 
Notre Dame's definition of academic freedom "should be consistent with !that of] other universities," Gomberg said. 
While AllianceND is not an official sponsor of the Queer Film Festival, Gomberg said the group has traditionally sup­ported event. 
"I think the Queer Film Festival is well within the boundaries of academic free­dom and is a huge asset to the University and the community at large," Gomberg said. 

History professor Gail Bederman said according to American Association of University Professors (AAUP) guidelines, performances and fllm showings for students are covered under aeademic free­dom. 
While Bederman said she did not know about the specifics of this year's Queer Film Festival or the discussions, she said Monday that these film show­ings would be no except to the AAUP's Statement on Profession Ethics, which reads: "As citizens engaged in a pro­fession that depends upon free­dom for its health and integrity, professors have a particular obligation to promote condi­tions of free inquiry and to fur­ther public understanding of academic freedom." 
The AAUP's guidelines are not regulations, so Notre Dame is not required to stand by this generalization. 

But controversy surrounding the Queer Film Festival raises questions about Notre Dame's own guidelines, she said. 
"It certainly is an issue of academic freedom," Bederman said. 

·Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
Tuesday, December 6, 2005 

Spots 
continued from page 1 

which all students must move their vehicles out of the Regina Lot. 
Chapman said this was part of the agreement with the administration. 
"If students do not comply, they will again have tp move their cars out of the entire lot at the designated times," Chapman said. 
This past week alone, there were several special events held on campus. Chapman said students were informed via e-mail and poster notices in the residence halls of such events and their repercus­sions on parking. 
Police officers were instructed to ticket vehicles that did not comply with the special events policy of park­ing restrictions. 
Chapman said only six tick­ets were written. 
"I would like to commend and thank the students of Saint Mary's for complying with the instructions," Chapman said. "I believe that if they continue to cooperate, they will be allowed to park in the lot permanently." 
The amount of ticketing, even with the new policy, is average in comparison with other years, Chapman said. 
Students who have cars on campus enjoy having the option to park in Hegina, especially with the harsh weather. 
"I'm happy that [security] opened up the Regina Lot," said freshman Brooke Postregna. "It is closer than the main [Angela] lot and a lot more convenient now that it's getting a lot colder." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohle@saintmarys.edu 


December 8  7am t;o 3:00am  IVIidnight; Snacks!  
December 9  7am t;o 3:00am  J'\llidnigh"t Snacks!  
December 10  7am t;o 3:00am  IVIidnight; Snacks!  
December 11  7am t;o 3:00am  IVIidnight; Snacks!  
Finals ""-'eek:  Dec, 12-16  Open: 7am t;o 3:00am  
*December 16 DeBart:olo closes 30 minut:es af"t:er 










ORLD & NATION 
Ti.1esday, December 6, 2005 CoMPtLED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE sERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Islamic suicide bomber kills five 
NI\TANYA. Israel -A Palnstinian suicide bornb11r blow himself up among shoppors out­sido a mall Monday, killing at least five people and putting prnssuro on Prime Minislnr Ariel Sharon for a tough rnsponse ahead of a fierce elnetion 1:arnpaign. 
Sharon twld an mnnrgnncy meeting of his sPcurily Cabi1wl to dndde how to respond to tlw attaek. which woundnd 40 peopln, while Palestinian leadnr Mahmoud Abbas threal­mwd his own strong action against those rnsponsible. 
An Israeli driver who spotted the bomber carrying a suspicious bag toward the mall alerted polict~. A mall sneurily guard hustled him away from the tmtranee and pushed him against a wall, whern tho bomber dotonated his explosivns. Tho guard was among the live people killt~d. police said. 
British law affords gay rights 
LONDON -Cay couples bngan registering for civil partnnrships at town halls across Britain on Monday as a law look nll'net 1-,riving thnrn many of the samo logal rights as married hnterosnxuals. 
Although the law slops short of allowing sarne-s11x eouples to marry. many said they wnrn still nager to daim thn bennfits and ofli­rial rncognition of llwir relationships -for which sonw have wailed decades. The Times of London marked the day by publishing noliens of "gay marriages" li1r the first lime. 
"Wn'rf1 absolutnly df1lighted," said SO-year­old John Walton. mgislnring in London with his partnnr of 40 ynars. Hognr Haglan. "It's mwrmously important to us that we should bn abln to slaln to nveryone that we are part­IH~rs." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Sept. 11 panel warns of problems 
WA"illlNCTON-Time, money and ever-present tnrror thmaLc.; havn donn little to dose gaping holes in thn nation's S(lCUrity system. thn fiwmer Sept. 11 Commission said Monday in accusing the govern­rnnnl of failing to protect thn eountry against <LIJOtllnr attack. 
The parwl dted disjointed airplann passenger scn11ming methods. pork-barrel security funding and othnr problems in saying the Bush adminLc.;­tration and Congress had not moved quickly mough to mmd the majority of il'i recommnnda­tiortc.; of July 2004. 
"We'm frustrated. all of us-frustrated at thn lack of urgeney in addrnssing thesn various prob­lmns," said Thomas Knan, a Hnpublkan and for­rnnr Nnw .Jnrsny govnrnor who was chairman of thn commission. 
FEMA admits poor Katrina reponse 
WASI IINGI'ON-FI\MA rnalized iL'i rnsponse to llurrkann Katrina Wll'i "broken" and braced fiJr rioting owr wodully low supplies in Mississippi in tlw days just aftnr the storm, according to new d()(:urnnnl'i rolem;ed Monday. 
Tlw corn1spondenen among Fndera.l Emergnncy Managnmnnl ;\gnncy ollidals. providnd by a spe­cial llousn committnn invnstigating thn govern­mnnt rnsponsn to lhn storm, lilllows tho releac;n hlc.;t wnnk of morn than 100,000 documents by l~1uisiana (;ov. Kalhlnen Blanco. Taken t.ogother, tlw d1~tails from both stales provide evidenee that FEMA WIL'i unable to providn fiLc.;t help at disa'iter sil.l~s-nvnn whm1 the nnods were obvious. 
LOCAL NEWS 
IU offers gender studies doctorate 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Indiana Univnrsity fae­ully nwmbers plm1 to involvn the school's Kinsey sex rnsnard1 institute as lhny prnpare to oller what they bnlinvn is thn nation's first doctoral dPh'fPP in g11ndnr studies. 
The university's trustees endorsed tim degrne program hc.;t month and it is awaiting approval from the Indiana Commission for Higher hlucation to start nnxt IiLII. Ten universities across l1111 country olli1r doei.IJratns in the rolal.l1d field of women's studies. hut IU oflidals say theirs will bn the lirsl with a st.and-alonn doetoratn in gender studiPs. 
IRAQ 

First witnesses testify at Hussein trial 
Accounts offer gruesome details; defense walks out on judge's refusal 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -The first witnesses in the Saddam Hussein trial offered chilling accounts Monday of killings and tor­ture using eleetrie shoeks and a grinder during a 1982 eraekdown against Shiites, as the defiant ex­prosident threatened the judge and tried to intimi­date a survivor. 
One witness said he saw a maehine that 'looked like a grinder with hair and blood on it in a seeret police cen­ter' in Baghdad where he and others were tortured for 70 days. lin said detainees were kept in "Hall 63." 
But defense lawyers questioned the reliability of' witnesses who were only 15 and 10 at the time and walked out of' the tumul­tuous session when the judge refused to allow for­mer U.S. Attorney General Hamsey Clark to address the eourt on Saddam's behalf. They returnod after the judge relented. 
Throughout the daylong snssion, Chief Judge Rizgar Mohammed Amin struggled to maintain order among boisterous defense out­bursts. Saddam and his eo­this," Ibrahim shouted at him and the others to the folded me, but I was so defendant and half brother, the judge. intelligence headquarters young, it kept falling." At Barazan Ibrahim, gestured The trial's first witness, in Baghdad, whern they the Baghdad detention ePil­and shouted together, Ahmed Hassan were tortured beforn being ter, he saw "a machine that "Long Live Iraq!" Mohammed, delivered a transferred to Abu Ghraib looked like a grinder and 
"Everyone must remain rambling, nearly two-hour prison. had some blood and hair" calm and be civil," Amin account of the events in Mohammed said his on it, and "I saw bodins ol' said repeatedly. Dujail in retaliation for an brother, who was at 1 7 at pnopln from Dujail." 
Saddam and his seven co­armed attack on Saddam's the time, was tortured The witness nxehanged defendants could be hanged convoy. while his 77-year-old father insults with Ibrahim, if eonviete"d on charges Mohammed recalled how watched. Interrogators Saddam's half brother, stemming from the deaths seeurity agents rounded up threatened to rape the pris­telling him "you killed a 14­of more than 140 Shiites in townspeople of' all ages, onors' daughters and sis­year-old boy." the town of Dujail after an from 14 to more than 70. ters if the men did not sign "To hell," replied assassination attempt in "There were mass confessions, he said. Ibrahim, who was intelli­1982. arrests. Women and men. "Some men just said 'I gence chief at thn limn. 
"I am not afraid of execu­Even if a child was 1-day­will sign anything but leave "You and your children go tion," Saddam proclaimed old, they used to tell his my sisters alone,"' he said. to hell," t.lw witness replind. at one point. parents. 'Bring him with Mohammed, who was 15 The judge tlwn askPd 
"Why don't you just exe­you,"' Mohammed said. at the time, said he himself them to avoid such cute us and get rid of all of He said the agents took was tortured. "They blind-exchanges. 

Judge will not toss serious DeLay charges 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN. Texas-A judge dismissed a eonspiraey charge Monday against Hep. Tom DeLay but refused to throw out the far more serious allegations of money-laundering, dashing the eon­grossman's hopes for now of redaim­ing his post as House majority leader. 
Texas Judge Pat Priest, who is pro­siding over the ease against the Hnpublican, issued the ruling after a hearing latn last month in which DeLay's attorney argued that the indietment was fatally flawed. 
When he was indicted in September, DeLay was required under House rules to relinquish the leadership post he had held since 2003. While Monday's ruling was a partial victory for DeLay, he eannot redaim his post beeause he remains under indictment. 
The ruling means the ease will move toward a trial next year, though other defense objections to the indictments remain to be heard by the judge. 
"The court's deeision to dismiss Honnie Earle's numerous charges against Mr. DeLay underscores just how baseless and politieally motivated the charges were," DeLay spokesman Kevin Madden said, referring to the Democratie district attorney who brought the ease. 
"Mr. DeLay is very encouraged by the swift progress of the legal pro­ceedings and looks forward to his eventual and absolute exoneration based on the facts and the law." 
DeLay declined to speak with reporters shortly after the judge's dedsion as he entered a Houston hotel for a campaign fundraiser. 
In a written statement, Earle's olliee 
said prosecutors were studying the ruling and had made no decision about whether to appeal. 
Earle has 15 days to appnal the dndsion. 
DeLay, 58, and two <;op l'undraisnrs, John Colyandro and Jim Ellis, are aeeused of illegally funneling $190,000 in corporate donations to 2002 Hepublican eandidatns for thn Tnxas Lngislature. Under Texas law, eorporatn money cannot bo directly used for political campaigns, but il ean be used for administrative pur­posns. 
In asking that the caso bn thrown out, DeLay lawyer Dick DnGuorin argued that one of the eharg11s -con­spiraey to violate the Texas nlnclion eode -did not evm1 take niTnet until Seplembor 2003, a year aftnr tho alleged oll"ensns oceurrnd. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, December 6, 2005 

Lottery 
continued from page 1 
according to an e-mail sent to Saint Mary's students. 
Berlo said this year's student ticket allotment is more than that of the Gator Bowl in 2003 and more than the Fiesta Bowl in 2000, as the ticket office is expecting higher student demand. But at the same time, Berlo said his office cannot pre­dict what exactly the demand will be and if the 2,500 tickets avail­able to students will be enough or too much. 
"It's tough to say [what the demand is going to bel," Berlo said. "All of our indicators of demand -student and non-stu­dent -are very high at this point. With higher demand, we increase the number of tickets available to students." 
Berlo said the rest of the 15,000 tickets allotted to Notre Dame, a number he said was a standard bowl allotment, goes to alumni, the athletic department, the team, University administrators, parents of students, Monogram Club members and benefactors. 
He also said the University is trying to obtain more tickets for students. If this endeavor is suc­cessful, students could hear as early as Dec. 14, according to the email. 
"We're attempting to procure additional tickets for the bowl 
COR 
continued from page 1 
n't judicial," HPC treasurer T.R. Eckler said. "There was a lot of mention of members' feelings about different clubs. I feel as though at the very least, there needs to be a message sent back to FMB that the process needs to be reviewed so it can be done in a fair and impartial way." 
The spending review occurred more one


the week before "My opinion is you 

event, they shouldThanksgiving, [had] better get it vote that way."
when representa­

right because there Marshall's con­
tives of the six cerns focused 

groups involved are a lot ofpeople 

around the longpresented their 
who need this periods between the 
budgets to FMB, 

money. annual budget real­noting what they locations.
had spent thus far "Tomorrow at the

in the semester Dan Zenker 

FMB meeting, we're 
and what funds 

HPC co-chair going to talk aboutthey projected needing to carry them· through the semester, Student Union treasurer and FMB president Mike Marshall said. 
"My opinion is you [hadJ better get it right because there are a lot of people who need this money," Hall Presidents Council co-chair Dan Zenker said. "If it's going to be $40,000, it should be done the proper way." 
Zenker suggested that, unless clubs needed their reallocated funds immediately, the budget be sent back to FMB for further con­sideration. 
"[Sending the budget back to FMBI would hurt as far as SUB, and therefore the student body, is concerned," SUB president Jimmy Flaherty said. "I think it would be a hug~ error to slow this process down. 
Flaherty noted that SUB's pend­ing contracts -including some for events as early as mid-February­cannot be finalized without the budget reallocations. 
Marshall agreed that a proce­dural revamping would benefit future reallocations but suggested that COR approve the current budget revisions. 
"The process is certainly not what it should be, but to prevent the reallocation would be against from various sources," Berlo said. "If we're able to do that, we would go ahead and e-mail out additional winning lottery num­bers." 

Should students win the lottery, they are able to purchase tickets on Thursday from 7 a.m. to 4 
p.m. for $85 each, payable in cash or check only. Students are allowed to bring four different winning IDs on Thursday of peo­ple with whom they want their tickets. Berlo said the lottery sys­tem was implemented to make things easier for students. 
"In order to minimize the amount of time student<> are wait­ing in line, we elected to go with a lottery system," he said. 
According to Ohio State's Web site, their ticket allotment will be distributed through a lottery, but students and faculty will not obtain their tickets until they arrive at the Fiesta Bowl. There, they present a claim voucher that states they have a ticket and their student or faculty ID, according to the release. Should they win the lottery, Ohio State students have the opportunity to purchase one ticket. 
The Fiesta Bowl will be played in Sun Devil Stadium in Tempe, Ariz., capacity of 73,379, accord­ing to Arizona State. Sun Devil Stadium is the home of the NFL's Arizona Cardinals and the Arizona State football team. 
Contact Heather VanHoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
everybody's best interests at this point," he said. 
While FMB may have issues with its reallocation procedures, these do not involve members' considerations of their feelings about each student group, Marshall said, adding that the Student Union's funds must be allocated in such a way that stu­dents will gain the most. 
"It's not an easy process because people's feelings do need to be taken into consideration," Marshall said. "Ifpeople think stu­
dents will benefit 
from 

possibly having a monthly or fbi-monthly] spending review like this where money can be taken away and reallocated accordingly," Marshall said. "It doesn't seem to be the best way to meet just once in the middle of the year." 
Student Body president Dave Baron emphasized that the approval of this series of realloca­tions does not close the door for future revisions of the reallocation process. 
"In the constitution, it says FMB is responsible for budget realloca­tion, but it doesn't have to be just once a month," Baron said. "We're not solidifying the way budgets are approved." 
The budget was approved with 10 votes in favor, one opposed and one abstention. 
In other COR news: 
+ Beth O'Shaughnessy, Club Coordination Council (CCC) presi­dent, moved to switch the Monday meeting times of COR and CCC, which currently meet at 6 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., respectively. The movement was approved without opposition and will take effect in January. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
meaning of "cultural compe­tencies," and CLC members expressed the same concerns -knowing that if the resolu­tion passed, it would be sent to the Faculty Senate. Dillon Hall rector Father Paul Doyle pre­dicted those faculty members would probably not be satisfied with such a vague term. 
''I'm willing to vote for this, but people will want a tighter definition of cultural compe­tencies somewhere along the way," Doyle said. "Professors want to define your terms, that might slow things down, but 
the spirit is something we can embrace." 
Boyd clarified the meaning of cultural com­petencies calling them "a specific range of skill, knowl­edge and abili­ty". 
"This was not a random choice of words," Boyd 
"{The word] 'cultural' is meant to be a bit vague ... We know it needs to be something that surrounds culture in general." 
Rhea Boyd chair minority affairs committee Student Senate 

said. "(The word] 'cultural' is meant to be a bit vague. This committee can define cultural -whether it refers to marginal­ized groups, the arts or [Film, Television and Theater] cours­es," Boyd said. "We know it needs to be something that surrounds culture in general." 
Satisfied with Boyd's answer, the members passed the reso­lution with one abstention. It will be discussed and voted on in the Faculty Senate tonight. 
Members of the social con­cerns task force still faced criti­cism when they presented a revised version of a resolution that called for more specific training for hall staff involving non-Catholic ministries. 
The resolution stems out of a perceived lack of attention paid to non-Catholic student faith options during this year's hall staff training. The resolution was met with opposition when it faced the Council on November 21. Welsh Family Hall rector Candace Carson, who is also a campus ministry commissioner, had insisted that the issue was already addressed in a variety of medi­ums, including pamphlets inside hall chapels. She prom­ised to bring up the resolution at the next campus ministry committee meeting. 
"We had a meeting on the Monday Nov. 28 and ... the concerns from the Council 
were pre­sented, and they said that they put the infor­mation 
0 u t 
through campus ministry e-mail. But each h a I I responds different­
ly," Carson said. "It was done as quickly as I could do it. I will continue to work through [campus ministry commission­ers]. They are a source on campus that should be used." 
The newly revised resolution asks that Student Affairs and Campus Ministry incorporate a presentation on resources for non-Catholic students during their spring rector gatherings ­instead of a separate workshop the original resolution called for. It also called for Campus Ministry to pay greater atten­tion to the issue during its presentation to hall staff in the fall. 
The resolution still faced 
doubt from several members. 
"It is seemingly ironic that we're talking about having entities that have offered infor­mation in this regard, like Campus Ministry, and asking them to do more when they seem to be the entities that have done the most," Carroll Hall rector Father Jim Lewis said. "I don't see any student initiative in this regard." 
Diversity council representa­tive and social concerns task force member Joyce Randall claimed that Campus Ministry was targeted because "obvi­ously there is a breakdown in getting the information [on non-Catholic initiatives! out there." 
Members also expressed fur­ther doubt about word choice and vagueness in the resolu­tion -resulting in a back and forth debate on how best to express its intent and meaning. 
Though Badin Hall rector Ann Napoli claimed that the resolution was calling for 15 or 20 minutes to be spent on non­Catholic resources as part of Campus Ministry's hall staff presentation, some members believed that the wording implied the need for a separate and distinct presentation. 
"We do want some intention­al ambiguity," Pasquerilla West Hall Senator Christina Lee said. "We don't want it to be like 'do this in this format.' We want them to figure out what they deem is the best way. It's more of a suggestion." 
The Council then voted to amend the resolution in order to clarify the type of presenta­tion as one that would be incorporated into the overall campus ministry presentation during hall staff training. 
The Council passed the amended resolution with two members opposed. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS

Tuesday, December 6, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 10 835 01 -42.50

}ones ' · 

AIJiir Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,343 151 , IM7 2,284,431,850
V AMEX I ,738.34 + l1.89 NASDAQ 2 257.64 -l5.73
··-·-' ,. ·--~~~~~· NYSE 7.759.24 Ml.61 S&PSOO I ,262.09 -2.99 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) ts:ss-t.3t o.oo J 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,510.40 -17.70 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II0 TR (QQQQ) -0.73 SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW) + 1.27 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.79 INTEL CP (INTC) -1.93 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
-0.57 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +0.98 I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.06 5-YEARNOTE + 1.03 3-MONTH BILL +0.46 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) 
-0.31  41.80  
+0.05  4.00  
-0.14  17.50  
-0.53  26.90  
-0.16  27.85  

+0.46 47.63 +0.48 45.67 +0.46 44.92 +0.18 39.10 
+0.59 59.91 +5.60 512.60 +0.25 89.03 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
120.8100 

EURO 
0.8482 

POUND 
0.5739 

CANADIAN$ 
1.1574 

IN BRIEF 
Cardiologist criticizes Merck & Co. 
IIOUSTON -A prominent cardiologist testi­l'ying against Merek & Co. accused the drug­maker Saturday of engaging in sdentilic mis­conduct, supprnssing clinical evidcncn and sti­rling nwdical discourse as it promoted tho painkillnr Vioxx. 
Dr. l·:ric Topol, dmirman-of the cardiovascu­lar nwdieine department of the Cleveland Clink, called certain aspects of Merck's behav­ior "repulsive" and "appalling" during his tlm~e-hour videotaped deposition. 
Topol said Vioxx can cause heart atlacks any lime aftnr a patient begins taking it, and that its risks wnrn apparent as early as 1999, wlwn the drug was approved. Vioxx was rnmoved from thn market last year after a study shownd it doublnd patients' risk or heart attacks and strokns after 18 months of use. 
"Vioxx's risk has been evident since trails 


were conducted in 1999 and all the way through thn time of withdrawal in September :w, 2004," Topol said. 
This is tho first federal trial over Vioxx; Merck has already lost one state trial over the drug and won anothnr, but it still faces about 7,000 lawsuits and analysts estimate its liabil­ity eould reach $50 billion. 

Inflation again concerns Wall Street 
NEW YOHK -lligher oil prices and news of slowing hrrowth in the service seetor pulled stoek..o;; lower Monday dt~spite some optimLo;;m over a $25 billion bid for (;uidant Corp. 
Inflation worries again plagued Wall Street as crude futures piercnd $60 per barrnl, rninfordng mncerns that the Federal Heserve might continue lifting interest rates to stem inllation from increased energy eosts. 
l..!L<;t week, the market broke a five-week rally after a string of government reports painted a rosier pieture of the economy than many had been predicting. That economie strength could justify more interest rate hikes and halt Wall StreHt's year-Hnd advance, said Bill Groenveld, hnader trader at vFinance Investments. 
"Whether the market flattens out for the next eouple of weeks, lhMe's always going to be uncer­tainty about the future," Groenveld said. "It's going to be a real news-sensitive market over the next quarter." 
Boston Scientific offers $25 billion to Guidant 


Amount tops previous Johnson & Johnson bid by more than $3 million 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Troubled Guidant Corp. drew a $25 billion offer Monday from medical device rival Boston Scientific Corp., topping Johnson & Johnson's watered-down bid by more than $3 billion. 
Guidant's once flagging stock rose $6.16, or nearly 10 percent, to close at $67.98 amid Wall Street's speculation of a bidding war. 
But market analysts said that J&J, which did not return repeated phone calls for comment, may not want Guidant badly enough to spend billions more for the Indianapolis-based maker of pacemakers, dnfibrillators and other devices which has been plagued by a series of recalls and by related reg­ulatory investigations. 
It was just three weeks ago that Guidant accepted a revised $21.5 billion pro­posal from J&J and stopped suing the health care products company to dose on a year-old acquisi­tion oll'cr of $25.4 billion. 
Boston Scientific, whose products include the top­selling cardiac stent Taxus, oll'ered Guidant a combina­tion of eash and stoek worth about $72 per Guidant share -a 16 per­cent premium over Friday's elose. The prospect of entering the lucrative $10 billion international market for implantable pacemak­ers and defibrillators out­weighed Guidant's recent legal and regulatory woes. 
"The primary driver of our proposal is to increase Boston Seientilic's diversili­eation and grow our ear­diac-rhythm management business," Boston Scientilic's chief operating officer, Paul LaViolette, said in a telephone inter­view. 

Guidant's original deal with .J&.J bogged down amid a series of recalls and warnings affecting nearly 200,000 pacemakers and about 88,000 defibrillators since June. Dozens of shareholder and product liability lawsuits have ensued, costing Guidant more than a quarter of its value. Its stock plummeted to a low of $55.26 last month. 
"We understand there have been some recent issues, but we believe they are manageable," LaViolette said. "We are 
experienced with these issues." 
Guidant's strengths out­weigh its problems for Boston Scientific, which has seen its profits dwindle recently, Jefferies & Co. analyst Hyan Rauch said. 
"Guidant would shore up Boston Scientific's 2008 pipeline, if they're willing to take signilicant dilution to their shares in the short­term," Rauch said. 
Hauch said he did not expect Guidant's share­holders would embrace J&J's offer over Boston Scientific's, given the pre­mium and the frayed rela­tions betwenn Guidant and .J&.J. Hauch said .J&.J was not likely to sweetnn its ofl'tlr. 
"There's no love lost betwenn Guidant and .J&.J," Hauch said. "I believe .1&.1 will not come back into the dance at a higher price." 
The Boston Scientific offer consists or $36 in cash and $36 worth of its shares for nach share of Guidant stock . .J&.J is ofl'er­ing $:B.25 in cash and 
0.493 share of Johnson & Johnson common stock for each Cuidant share. 

Turmoil In actor union could lead to split 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -The largest union representing actors has promised a new, tougher stance in contract talks with powerful media eonglomerates. 
But the Screen Actors Guild may self-destruct before it ever gets the chance. 
The labor union's long-running infighting has escalated into what could become a mutiny after the elec­tion in September of SAG President Alan Hosenberg. 
Hosenberg and his allies gained a majority on the national board by pledging to squeeze more money from the studios from the sale of DVDs and new technologies, including download­ing of lilms and TV shows. He also pledged to unite SAG's feuding fae­tions. 
Instead, Hosenberg, 55, divided the union even more by almost immedi­ately firing popular SAG national exec­utive director Greg llessinger. He had been hired by the previous leadership, which Hosenberg accused of surren­dering too easily on key economic issues in contract talks last year. 
Many union members see the firing as an arrogant display of power by Hosenberg that could finally split the union into two groups -one that rep­resents film and TV actors, primarily based in Hollywood, and another mostly comprised of members in New York, Chicago and elsewhere who do commercials and voieeovers. 
Paul Christie, president of SAG's New York branch, said talk of a split has heated up since the election of Hosenberg, who was a regular on the TV series "LA Law" and "The Guardian," and is married to "CSI" star Marg Helgenberger. 
"I think he's eapable of better things," Christie said. 
With 120,000 members, SAG has always been a fragmented labor 
union, representing both multimillion­aire superstars and rank-and-file membership with an unmnployment rate of more than 80 percent. 
Membership in the union is all but required to work in lilms. television and commercials. Many SAG members also belong to the American Federation of Television and Hadio Artisl'i, which has jurisdiction over tlw prime-time schedule of major net­works, among other areas. 
Hosenberg's agenda mirrors that of the newly elected prosident of the Writers Guild of America, west. Patrie Verrone also ran on a promise to got tougher with studios and also fired his executive director soon after taking office. 
Both men justified the firings by say­ing they needed staiT who would push their agendas of incrnasing member­ship, fighting the rise of reality TV shows and gaining more eeonomie concessions from studios. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, December 6, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

When society owns your body 
1'0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EmTORl Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER! Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

oBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcDbserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent. dally newspaper 

published in print and online by the srudems of the University ofNoue Dame du Lac :md Saint Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and depanment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Q~«stions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tho: Observer {USPS 599-1-4000) U pt~hlishc:d Monday through Friday except during enm and vacation periods. Asubscriprion to The Ob:>etVCt U $100 for om: academic year; S55 for one semesrer 
The Ob5trver is pt.lblishc:d at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Stlni$ addri!Ss oorrec;ciQtu: t-o~ Notre Dam~ IN 461%.0779 'IlttObnrver Pc:riod.icaJ poruge paid at Notte O;une P.O.Box·779 and addidonal mailing offici!$. 024 South Dining fWI 
Noa< Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Obscrvct b ~ mem.ber ofthe .Nsocill.~ Press. All reproduction rights a~ tesc!rvc:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Megan O'Neil Ken Fowler Mary Kate Jack Thornton Malone Jay Fitzpatrick Maureen Mullen Scene Viewpoint Mark Becca Rosswurm Bemenderfer Graphics illustrator Graham Ebetsch Robin Fallon 
It is often typical of the Left to extol the virtues of a great society: a great society takes care of the elderly and the poor; it educates its children and pays for medical treatment. 
These sentiments are well and good until one attempts to ascertain from a left-winger how exactly society accomplishes such eleemosynary goals; because (as I am often quick to point out), left-wingers hardly mean "socie­ty" when they speak the word. 
When the Left speaks of society "taking care" of the people, it does not imply society itself; it refers instead to the welfare state and its many tendrils: Social Security, public schooling, universal healthcare -social programs that are funded via compulsory taxation by the govern­ment. 
Government is not society. In fact, Thomas Paine agreed with me when he said: "Society in every state is a bless­ing, but government, even in its best state, is but a necessary evil." Society is the voluntary cooperation and coexis­tence of individuals; government is the involuntary subjugation of some indi­viduals to the will of others. Now, I am not necessarily claiming that every gov­ernment is inherently oppressive, but merely that any government without a gun is just another interest group. 
This distinction is important because every social end enumerated by the Left must be accomplished by govern­mental coercion. Indeed, both the Left and Right embrace a certain paternal­ism when it comes to the actions of "society": whether it be gratis medical treatment, smoking bans, the War on Drugs or the persecution of "obscene" materials, the nanny-state is a neces­sary component. 

Scott Wagner 
Live and Let Live or Die 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Let us therefore address the former: government-subsidized health care. I will not even attempt to delve deeply into the details of this complicated issue, but will instead focus my ener­gies on the elementary paternalism that is inherent in it. 
In the United States, we have (as of yet) avoided the catastrophe that is "socialized health care." What we have instead are Medicare and Medicaid ­complex bureaucratic institutions that, in effect, reimburse elderly, disabled and poor people for many medical services (including treatments for, among other dubious things, erectile dysfunction). 
According to the director of health policy studies at the Cato Institute, Michael F. Cannon, "Medicare spending is increasing at twice the rate of the· gross domestic product" and the new Medicare prescription drug plan is slat­ed to "cost more than $700 billion over the next 10 years." As mismanaged as any government program can be, Medicare faces a budget shortfall of as much as $62 trillion-that is, the gov· ernment promises $62 trillion more than it can deliver to beneficiaries. Today, the government collects slightly more than $2 trillion in total taxes. 
That is quite the shortfall. 

But suppose people are abusing alco­hol and tobacco, or eating so unhealth­ily that America continues her reign as one of the most obese nations in the world. Americans suffer from heart dis­ease, high blood pressure, high choles­terol, diabetes and myriad other ail­ments that stem from our obsession with eating poorly. 
At this point, the government still has some options: it can cut Medicare bene· fits (and sacrifice the political future of Republicrat politician X who would support such actions), or it can raise taxes by about, say, 1,500 percent. 
But the real, philosophically central question is: if the government is already paying too much for the care of Americans, does it have the right to force its citizens to be healthier in order to reduce its medical expendi­tures? Beginning in 2006, Medicare will cover preventive health screenings, lending credence to the notion that a few hundred billion dollars of preven­tion is worth $62 trillion of cure. 
So to avoid the impending Medicare crisis that is at hand, should acting unhealthily be made illegal? 
I have heard it argued before, believe it or not. Originally I believed it to be a joke, but upon further reflection, it seems perfectly reasonable. I have a vested interest in keeping you healthy, since I am forced by my government-at some point or another-to pay for your medieal bills. 
Such is the paternalism implicit in the government business or health care. Socializing health effectively destroys the lines that delineate what is your personal choice and what afl'ects me. Subsidies give society a controlling stake in what you do with your own body, where your health is no longer merely your concern. 
In 1971, the U.S. Supreme Court mat­ter-of-factly stated that subsidized pro­grams "have almost always been accompanied by varying measures of control and surveillance." It is not beyond reasonable doubt, therefore, that government control and surveil­lance of health in America will soon become even more omnipresent­even more so than it is today. 
No, I do not believe McDonald's should be illegal. However, when "soci­ety" owns your body, there are few -if any -realistic options left. 
Like I said: $62 trillion is quite the shortfall. 
Scott Wagner is president ofthe College Libertarians and writes politi· cally incorrect satire for the Web site The Enduring Vzsion. You would proba· bly be too offended by it, so never mind. He can be contacted at swagnerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

\.t\'7h~t ~'F'~ 
)""CJU 
b:Hl~1ltD~ ~bc:>ut;. ~~u [.lb~?~~ scum~ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The way a team plays as a whole determines its success. You may have the greatest bunch ofindividual stars in the world, but ifthey don't play together, the club won't be worth a dime." 
Babe Ruth former baseball player 
S; .·:·I.'b. ..'·.·'t•...• ·.··.••·• L;: ·_:.'"tt.·.·· i~_; •.'
:u .11 ,a:,;e:.. ~r to the Editor at 

www.nd~.meobserver.eom 
F­
-:?¢'... ~... -( / /,., . -.;: .! l 
'-{,-/;,?,,·.Yr..:.-.,~: ....,....,_,../'' 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Peace is not an absence ofwar, it is a virtue, a state ofmind, a disposition for benevolence, confidence, justice." 
Baruch Spinoza philosopher 

-r-------~~­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, December 6, 2005 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Communion: not a time for politics 
In the Doe. 5 issue of The Observer, Matthew Hamilton rigorously dofendod his ehoiee to wear the orange "Gay? Fino by Me" shirt to Mass on Sunday. lin defends him­self by arguing the illegitimacy and destructive nature of thn Vatican's mueh-publieized statement. lie eontinues by saying that far from being inappropriate at Mass, sud1 a showing sends a message of communion and par­tkipall~s in tho radical naturn of the Eucharist. After all, lw says, calling his action a degradation or profanation of the 1\ueharisl. "prnsupposns that polities is inherently vulgar and that the s<u:raments have nothing to do with thn r·eal world." lie says that, divided from religion, political lifi~ is shorn of its mystery, and that we should "rnjm:t this ruthless division between politics and Communion." 
I apprndatn llamillon's liwvor in this matter. I appred­aln his honosly, his dosiro for a morn perfect Catholic Church. for lrun Communion and li1r rneognilion of the fallacy of lhn dualistic approach to ourselvns as religious and politkal beings. llowever, I disagree with his pri­mary nwthod of making a point. This has nothing to do with the issue of homosexuality, either in general, or in light of the Vatican's stat1mwnt. Any similar action fea­turing a shirt that loudly condonnd the Church's docu­mnnt should also receive disapproval. What is at issue horn is the lloly Saeriliee of the Mass, not rules and reg­ulations. 
Wn all recognize a cnrlain ordnr of propriety in life. Corlain things are fitting at enrtain times, but not at oth­ers. What llamilton did not reeognize in his comments is that, although there should not be a divide between our love of God and love of neighbor, or between theological hmehing and social teaching, that is not to say that the Mass is on an equal footing with politics. If our various religious beliefs had no superiority to the state, there would be no problem with state religions. Churches could welcome political campaigners to deliver some election year slogans. The core belief's of any person could be dictated by the opinion of the majority. llowever, it was the intentions of the founders of the United States to guarantee that religion would always be beyond the reach of the state. And rightly so. Christ him­self, while recognizing the legitimatn authority of the political realm, dill'erentiates between those things that belong to God, and those that belong to Caesar. 
I encourage to Hamilton, and anyone else who feels strongly about this issue, to set up forums for discussion. I applaud llamilton for writing a letter, that's what it's there for. But please, do not eross the line between what is appropriate and what is not. Church serviees are a time for communion, after all, we call the Sacrifice of the Mass "Communion," but worship services are also a time for an individual to engage in one of the most personal acts imaginable, the dialogue of one's innermost self with his or her God. Out of respect for this, there are many customary decencies that are observed. 
Many churches have instituted erying rooms for infants. That is not because infants are not appmdated, nor considered outside of the community. llowever, since they can be distracting to others. many parishes make them available. Another courtesy is refraining from extensive affection. Again, it is a matter of decency for couples to abstain from displays of their love. Even 
though sex is praised by the Church for its holiness, it 
could beconie slightly distraeting during even the best 
homily. Clearly, if llamilton's statement at Mass was to 
be efl'ective, it must be noticed by other people and 
thereby beeome a distraction during the service. 
I don't mean to be trite about this matter. Clearly such a controversial statnmenl by the Vatiean will produce division, and lhernfom charitable and understanding dialogue is required. Throughout the history, activists and reformers have kept the Church true to the leadt­ings of Christ, and thnrn is no loss need in tho modnm world. Finally, pray1w and personal holiness is necessary that we may be as ell'ective as possible in bringing the Word of God to all pnople. llowover, in all of this. wn must recognize tho proper respect that is dun to thn wor­ship of God, and tho respnet we own others who an~ par­ticipating in tlwir own ads of worship. What. happened on Sunday took into account neithnr, and thus was a profanation and an aetion or disrnspoet to all those who 
were trying to worship. I rncognizo that llamilton 
believes the Vatican to have already crossed both of' 
those lines. but that does not l11gitimize this act. Let us 
strive to reach grnat11r understanding and communion 
with one another and with God, and let us be aware of' 
both the intended and unintended results of' our actions. 
Will Dowdy gradua1c sludl'nt 
Ofl~campus 
Dec. 'i 

Publicity stunts not appropriate for Mass 
On Dee. 4, I attended the 10 a.m. Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, a..<; I do almost homosexuals and the Catholic Church are obviously very controversial, and it is evident every Sunday. Upon entering the Basilica, a group of about a dozen people caught my that one side can so easily offend the other. I believe people would think it inappropri­eye. All of them were sitting together, wearing the "Gay? Fine by Me" shirl'i. ~----,--ate if a group came to Mass to show support for abortion, or to display their As I lookf~d at them and thought about why they might be there, I wa..<> support for the use of birth control, if it were done in the manner of thosn offended, not because I have anything against homosexuals, but students on Sunday. These activities are deemed sinful by the Church, bnntus•~ I feel that the ehurch is not an appropriate place for such a yet many Catholics still take part in them. The dillerenee is that demonstration. I have many friends who aro gay, I support gay these groups do not rally for a change during Mass. A<> I said righl<>. and it wouldn't bother me if homosexuals were allowed previously, I have nothing against homosexuals, but the to be ordained, even though I understand the Church's reason Catholic Church believes homosexuality is wrong. Gaining tol­((Jr not allowing this. But these were not the issues concern-erance from the Chureh may be diflicult, but it must be donn ing my reaction to the demonstration. with respect by both parties. I have nevnr been to a Mass 
I rmu:tnd lhn way I did for two rea..<;ons. First, this demon-where readings or sermons try to denounee homosexuali­slration was a stunt, regardless of what is daimed by the ty. The Church most often deals with thesn issues ouL<>ide student<> involved. Matthew Hamilton's letter in the Dec. 5 of the Mass, so why should these student<> bring thmn into issun of The Observer claims that this "was not a media the Mass? This demonstration was disresper.tful to the stunt or a protest." lie says that the hrroup was simply sanctity of the Mass, and to those parishiorwrs who altnnding Mass on Sunday to "pray lbr the priests who will attended. h•~ forced into silence and shame, for the gay, lesbian, I wish to state a third time that I have nothing against bisnxual and lransgnnderod Catholics and for the conver-homosexuals, and I am in no place to make moraljudg­sion and repentance of the Valiean authorities." menl'i. That is not what I am attmnpting to do with this let-
Fine by me. But isn't prayer just as p,flective no matter ter. I only request that those studnnl<> that worn "Gay? Finn what you wnar? The fad that the group was wearing those by Me" shirts to Ma..'>s on Sunday, and any other student particular shirts says to me that it was in fact a "stunt" or groups fbr that matter, will take more care when choosing a "protest." Is it even necessary to mention that the 10 a.m. Sunday venue for sueh a protest. Please have some respect li1r tho Mass is nationally televised'? Why else would they bother to wear Church, and for the sanctity of the Ma..<>s. those shirt<> if they were floing to Mass just to pray? I do not see how otlwrs arn oxpeeled to believe that this wa..<; not some kind of media stunt. 
Alison Frihart 
Second, it is inappropriate <md disrespectful to protest such a thing during sophomore the Ma..<>s. The fact that these student<; chose the Mass a..<; a venue for their demon­Pasquerilla Wes1 stration has really made me bnlieve that hardly anything is sacred today. Issues concerning Dec. 5 
U-WIRE 

Stop right now seniors. Don't do it. Put your pencils down, throw your books in tho trash and spend finals week building a snow cave and little snowmen to live with. 
Whatever you do, don't lake your finals and graduate. Why would you do that'! Do you know what's out there? I .ions and tigers and corporations that will deny your applications because you Brett "don't have mwugh experience." Okamoto 
This is why I have dodd1~d to never leave. I am going to stay in college until Rocky I mach t.hn agn of dnad. You want to Mountain retire my Chmnistry 10 I book? You will Collegian have to pry it from my eold, lifnloss lin­Colorado State 
gers. llniversity You sen, college truly is llw best of 
both worlds. You take your panml<> love (and money, if you're lurkyl from th11 high school world and you eornbine it with llw freedom and indnpendnnen or the working-still' world. Then1 is no bntlnr combination. 
I'Ill not leaving 
Tell me one opportunity you're going to have after grad­uation to party it up 'til 3 a.m., be in dass by 11 a.m., lie on the couch watching a "Southpark" rerun by 3 p.m .. and at various point'> in all of that, you get to see thousands of sin­gle membors of the opposite sex. Not to mention all the Hamen Noodles you can eat. 
I'm going to be honest here and admit that I'm scared of this mal world they speak of. I get a little taste of it every lkst of the month when my rent payment comes, and I don't like what I've seen so far. I've heard they make you get marriod, become a parent, pay bills and forbid playing beer pong. Quito frankly, I don't want to bo a part of some­thing that doesn't foree you to play boer pong once a week. 
That's not the only thing that scares 1111~ though. Wa..<>n't I just a kid on thn swings in the playground yostorday'? My little brothnr is 13 years old; you remembor that age? The age whore you switehed boyfricndst~-,rirlff'iends every hour ins toad of nvery year. The age whnre all you had to worry about was d11t11ntion or the lunch lady eating you. When I graduate from college, that's it-I'm not a kid at all any­more. That scams the Logos out of me. 
I know you seniors are excited to embark on a nnw jour­ney. The potential of a career that will make you more money in a year than you've had in tho last four and a house with a white pieket fence -I can see why you're anxious to get out. But I think we all have a tendnncy to sometimes ((Jcus on what makes college strnssful inst(md of what makes it fun. 
Are you really ready to leave the ((Jotball games, thn house parties, the roommates, the mornings you wak(~ up and don't know where you are lor a nine to liv11? 
I didn't think so. I'll menl you at the iee eavn. 
This column originally appeared in the /Jec. 5 issue of the Rocky Mountain Collegian, tlze daily pu/Jlimlion at Colorado State Uni11ersily 
Tlze 11iews expressed in this column are tlwst• ofIlw author and not necessarily those of11ze 0/Jserl'er. 


THE OBSERVER 





CENE

Midnight madness 
I'm that guy. 

You know the one. The guy who can tell you off the top of his head which company created which game. He's the one who plans his weekends for the next year by video game and movie release dates. 
I was there on Sept. 9, 1999 when the Sega Dreamcast was released at midnight. I waited in a line for my chance at obtaining the first of the third-generation of consoles, knowing I would have to be up in less than six hours to get ready for school. "Soul Calibur" made sure that having to get up never occurred. 
I was there on March 24, 2005 when the Sony PSP was also released at midnight. I had pre-ordered it months beforehand, fully paying off the sys­tem and several games well before they were released and reviewed. Six 
a.m. came very quickly, as I played that tiny machine until the wee hours of the morning. Getting sick due to lack of sleep was only a minor detail, as it gave .me the opportunity to play "Twisted Metal" a little more. 
And I was there Nov. 22 for the mid­night release of the Microsoft X-Box 
360. Excitement was high in the tiny shop as the seconds ticked closer to the time the system could be sold. The first of the next generation, the fabled fourth tier of video-gaming, had my brother and me wide-eyed with antici­pation. 
But then our enthusiasm began to damper. A number of things led into this, I suppose. Perhaps the first sign was the bill, which totaled well over $500. It is one thing to be aware of what something will cost, but quite another when the time comes to hand the money over. 
The second was the rarity of the complimentary hardware. Ever since the arcade games of yore has the value of playing-with a friend been realized, and then compounded by games like "Goldeneye" and "Halo." But as the cashier was ringing up the 


purchase, there was a conspicuous 
absence of a specific accessory. So I 
went home that night with a solitary 
controller. 
But then that is where the real dis­
appointment set in. My brother and I 
quickly hooked up the X-Box 360 to 
my television, fervently waiting for 
what the next generation of gaming 
was going to bring. 
As we started to play through "Perfect Dark Zero," a feeling of deja vu began to set in, and not in a posi­tive way. The next generation of gam­ing felt disturbingly similar to the last one, and for that matter, the one before that. The graphics were pretti­er, but beyond that, it wasn't the leap 
that "Halo" was from "Goldeneye," or even from "Wolfenstien 3D" to "Doom." 
Maybe I'm just jaded, or perhaps the sad fact is that games are ceasing to impress. The same games are being made that have been made before, but with a dash of new paint. 
This then begs the question -why did we do it? Why go out at midnight to spend over half-a-thousand dollars on a product that so far is pure hype with no solid review base? 
The same could be said for movies, books and all the other products that get a midnight release. There is a rea­son people go to extreme lengths to fulfill non-essential pleasures. 
There is a thrill on being at the ground floor of an event. Attending the midnight premier of a movie, or going to an event on its opening day, add a special flavor to the action. To say, f was there first, I did that, car­ries a certain satisfaction. 
But in light of my X-Box 360 adven­tures, perhaps one should be a little more conservative in what we choose to indulge. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Photos courtesy of news.yahoo.com Excited garners wait outside a Best Buy in New York City for the midnight release of the X-Box 360. Anticipation was high for the latest generation console. 
----------------------. 
Tuesday, Decemeber 6, 2005 

SMC SPOTLIGHT 
Madrigal Dinners recreat 
By NICOLE ZOOK Scene Critic 
Saint Mary's kicked off the holiday sea­son last weekend with three days of "merrymaking" during its 33rd annual Madrigal Dinners. 
The four madrigal performances that occur each year carry on an age-old tra­dition in which Saint Mary's and South Bend community members are invited to partake in a medieval-style holiday feast dinner that revolves around the music of the time. 
Students and faculty worked for weeks to transform Regina North Lounge into the Great Hall of an ancient castle, where the "local rabble, peasants, serfs, field­hands and their families" could feel transported back in time -as master of ceremonies Michael Kramer described the event. 
Kramer, a communication and perform­ance studies professor, acted as Master of the House. 
On Sunday afternoon during the third performance, the kitchen wench (senior Ashleigh Stochel) and court jester (junior Tori Abram-Copenhaver) engaged in live­ly play. Two others juggled, and period musicians performed along with a group of 24 madrigal singers. 
With so many different types of enter­tainment packed into two short hours, dinner guests were kept highly enter­tained throughout. 
Notre Dame jugglers Jason Quinn and Sean Rose highlighted the night, tossing fiery pins high in the air and at one point even knocking a pencil out of the mouth of a young volunteer as they passed clubs to one another. A juggling competition during the meal drew excited "oohs," applause and even laughs from dinner guests. 
Stochel and Abram-Copenhaver also received big laughs throughout the show with good-natured hijinks such as don­ning antlers and darting through choir members as they sang about "the running of the deer" and acted out the lyrics of "Vive Ia Cookery Maid," a lighthearted piece about a girl who makes pies as heavy as lead. 
But the main focus of the event was the Madrigal Singers, an all-female group who put dinner guests in a festive, holi­day mood by singing Christmas classics such as "Here We Come A-Wassailing" and "We Wish You A Merry Christmas" as various parts of the meal were served to diners. Several guests even hummed along to the more familiar tunes as they feasted. 
Some of the group's best work was heard in period pieces and modern madrigal-style tunes such as the sweet, lilting melodies of "Patapan" and "Le Sommeil de !'Enfant Jesus" and the Polish carol "To a Baby." 
While several songs were accompanied by the Andrews University Early Music Ensemble, one of the standout perform­ances of the night was the a capella "In Dulci Jubilo." The room fell silent as the well-blended vocal ensemble weaved their melody, with not even the clink of a glass breaking the spell. 
Interestingly, the madrigal was an entirely interactive concert. The singers paraded through the hall singing directly to the audience while the actors visited tables during dinner, joking with guests. Diners even interacted with each other, gaining a sense of community as they introduced themselves and chatted with neighbors, passing bowls of food down ( the long tables. Guests and performers t alike also united in singing "Silent Night" 

DPAC SPOTLIGHT 


Pittsburgh Symphon 
By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Critic 
The sound of strings, woodwinds and brass warming up to a familiar B flat tickled the atmosphere of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra's performance last Thursday night at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The general mood of anticipation was only heightened by noting the selection of pieces that the prestigious ensemble was to present that evening. And with Rachmaninoff, Strauss and Sibelius played to near perfec­tion, it was an evening of masterful artistry. 
With guest conductor Hans Graf at the helm, the PSO was truly remarkable. Their level of professionalism, talent and style was of the highest caliber, and witnessing their concert was undoubtedly one of the most exceptional joys of the semester. 
The first piece performed, Richard Strauss' tone poem, "Don Juan," was a bright and energetic opening for the concert. The piece, first performed in 1889, uses a featured selection of instruments to tell the familiar tale of Don Juan through music. Flute, bas­soon, harp and timpani are among the instruments chosen, and the piece's varying pace· and melodies heighten those choices. 
From its vibrant opening to the more measured middle sections, the tone poem's gorgeous melodies carried the audience to the Seville of centuries past. The interesting contrast between smooth, lilting string har­monies and bright, bombastic brass and tim­pani led the audience to feel both the power and elegance of the music. Its fmal crescen­do was the height of musical force and ener­gy. 
The second piece, Sibelius' violin concerto in D minor, featured celebrated violinist Sarah Chang. Chang, a known prodigy whose credits include performing with the New York Philharmonic at eight years old, was, in a word, a wonder. Her level of skill was astronomical for the average concertgo­er to witness, and her handling of the intri­cacies of Sibelius' orchestrations was out­standing. 
The concert itself was unique in its accent­ing of the violin's solo moments with a subtle depth of complementary orchestration. The accompanying instruments provided a strong background and partnership for Chang's violin, and throughout the concert's three major themes, that balance is heard with distinction. 
The final piece performed was Rachmaninoff's "Symphony No. 2 in E minor." The suggested performance time of 50 minutes may have seemed daunting before it began, but at the closing of the fourth and final movement, it felt as though the complex, graceful and unique melodies could have continued easily until morning. 
The first movement, with its strings-heavy opening, used the mournful tones of the oboe to create an ebb and now of melody. The mood rose and fell, culminating with a surge of thunderous brass and violin. 
The subsequent movements each had a distinct personality, so to speak. The second, with a more dramatic feel, also created a balance between a feel of threatening urgency and a sensation of rising joy in its choice of notes. The third is sweeping and romantic, and the fourth, an Italian "taran­tella," closes the symphony on a triumphant note of stunning beauty. 
"The several elements ... produce the rich and sonorous tapestry appropriate for the b 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Tuesday, December 6, 2005 

a fun medieval festival 
I 
edleval servers bring out the food for the Saint Mary's sponsored Madrigal ners. The Madrigal Singers serenaded the attendees as they ate. 
ond tlw nvnning, and many guests' 
.s glisli~IIIHI with tnars as they sang ong. "Thnn~ wnrn so many beautiful voieos in n ehoir." dirwr Sharon Duram said. Ihrram attnndod the Madrigal Dinnnr as "fun" Christmas group event with 11 
thor mtnnhnrs of the local Hod llat 
oeinty. "Wn thought it would be interesting and nrwthing different to do," fellow mem­

r Caryll Vicsik said. "It's only onee a .ar and wo thought we'd take advantageit. .. 
Viesik said she "couldn't piek a favorite" rt of thtl performanee but eommented tlw beautiful medieval eostumes ignnd by Mnlissa Bialko and the intri­tn attontion to dntail that was plaeed on n hall. whieh was deeked in wreaths d picture-pnrfeet table settings. While 
tho hall itself was a bit too small -espe­cially for the food servers, who had to edgn their way between the 12 tables ­the music filled the spaee. The music eombinnd with the deeor added to the holiday atmosphere, a faet not lost on guests or even the performers, who seemed to enjoy the dinner as mueh as the tieketholders. 
Senior singer Kate Keating said the event -especially with the snow eover­ing the ground as everyone joined in "Silent Night" -was a special holiday experienee. 
"I love the way we end it," Keating said. "Especially at night -you come out and it's just gorgeous. It really feels like Christmas Eve." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

By GRACE MYERS 
Scene Writer 
An 11-year-old boy, Chava, must fight for his home, family and child­hood in war-torn El Salvador. 
"lnnoeent Voices," a movie based on the true story of screenwriter Oscar Torres, eompellingly addresses the El Salvadoran Civil War and ehild reeruitment during the 1980s. The film shows the vast and prolonged suffering eaused by daily violenee. The ntm's screening at the Browning Theater was put together by a Notre Dame student who, after spend­draws on his face and does magic trieks to create a "circus" under­neath the bed frame whern the chil­dren hide. 

Chava gets his first job to help his single mom pay the bills, survives a shooting within in his sdwol and snns his friends be recruited to the army and changed forever. llis life becomes a bitter struggle for sur­vival, as he is forced to ehoose between being recruited and joining the rebels, while experiencing the dispiriting effeets of constant fear. 
The brilliance of this movie lins in the balanec of the devastation and 
speeific eruct­
ties of this eivil 


an artistic success 
Photo courtesy of henrydoktorski.com 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra performed at the Debartolo Center for the -..rtn,rmllnd Arts last Thursday night. Hans Graf was the guest conductor for the evening. 
the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communi­tics, is a rare and lovely one. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
.-aflirming condusion of this grand and ng Symphony," the prohrram stated. joy of having sueh talented and ccle­pnrformers, who are able to eome to page 11 
DPAC REVIEW -· 
'Innocent Voices' an e:motional experience 
ing time in El war with the
InnocentVoices 

Salvador and funny and experiencing the . ) ) . ) ) charming dis­
" ~ ......... ; .... J,. ; ..

effeets of the war plays of
J~ JJ,:J JJ:i;J Jj:J J
first-hand, wanted Chava's l~hild­
to raise awareness Director: Luis Mandoki hood and fami­of the eivil war ly. The young
Writer: OscarTorres 

and the issue of Chava's point
Starring: Carlos Padilla, Leon or Varella, 
child recruitment. 
Xuna Primus 
She also brought Torres, to speak and answer questions after the sereenings. Seeing Torres, the now 33-year-old ereator of this film based on his embattled childhood, made viewing the film an incredibly power­ful experience. 
The film is highly acclaimed all over the world, receiving awards from many film festivals, ineluding Best Feature Film Award at the San Diego International Film Festival and Best Picture at the Berlin International Film Festival. "Innocent Voices" has earned high praise in the United Sates, despitn its initial dini­eulty in finding an American distribu­tion company. 
"Innocent Voices" shows history's evils, raising awareness of the devas­tation war inflicts on children, but also showing the strength of the human spirit in the midst of these evils. 
The boy, Chava, struggles to main­tain a degree of normaley within his home. In the midst of frequent shoot­ings in his village, he eonstantly fears turning 12 -the age when the gov­ernment ean recruit him to fight against his nation's peasant rebels. Meanwhile, he eares for his younger brother and sister, trying to preserve their innoeenee and sheltering them from the ehaos that surrounds them. During the frequent shootings, Chava 
of view snts 
this film apart 

from other Latin Ameriean war lilrns: hn has no political opinions, dons not under­stand the purpose of the violnnce and seeks to return to his normal lifn. Unlike the adults around him, lw does not choosn his futurn. His fear of being recruited by tlw army dic­tates his deeision to finally join t.lw peasant rebels. 
"Ask any I 2 ynar-old if lw wants to join a war, and he will say no." Torrns said in a rneent intervinw with National Gnographie. "The problem is that many children do not have a choice." 
Torres was also quick to point out. in both the film and in the post­sercening discussion. that child reeruitnwnt is found in otlwr placns besides El Salvador. In fact, morn t han :H> 0 . 0 0 0 c h i I d r e n p r e s n n t Iy ser·vc in armies in over 40 countries throughout the world, most frequent­ly in Afriea. Various organizations, sueh as Amnesty lntnrnational and UNICEF, work diligently to solve the problem. A major diflieulty, howover, is the unawareness in the majority of the world. With his powerful "Innocent Voiees," Torres direetly edueates and inspires the world of this ongoing crisis. 
Contact Grace Myers at gmyersl@nd.edu 

--------------------------------. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, December 6, 2005 
NFL 
Tuiasosopo tnight play Sunday 
·­
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -Marques TtJittSOSOfH:l probabl) ''ill get his shot as Oakland's starting quarterback this week. 
Coach Norv Turner is leaning toward demoting the strug­gling Kerry Collins and plans to make his final decision before the Raiders take the practice field Wednesday to prepare for the lowly New York Jets -though it sure seems Turner has all but made up his mind. 
The coach already spoke to Collins about the potential change for Sunday's road game. 
"I wouldn't have brought it up if it wasn't something we're considering strongly," Turner said Monday on the heels of the Raiders' second straight defeat and fourth loss in five games, 34-10 at San Diego. 
"We're going to look at the quarterback situation and say, 'Hey, is it time to look at Tui?'With his mobility, would that help us?" 
The 26-year-old Tuiasosopo has been a backup since the Haiders drafted him out of Washington in 2001. He start­ed one game in 2003 in place of injured 2002 MVP Hich Gannon, but hurt his knee dur­ing Oakland's third offensive series on a hard hit by Boss Bailey in a 23-13 loss at Detroit and hasn't played in a regular-season game since. 
Tuiasosopo planned to relax by playing the guitar Monday night to take his mind off Turner's decision. 
"I definitely feel like I have a better chance," Tuiasosopo said. "That's always exciting. I'll lay low for a couple more days and obviously on Wednesday we'll all know and I'll go on from there .... I wouldn't approach it any dif­ferent. There are no added expectations, no added pres­sure. When I was playing in college, I'd go out and play. Pressure is a lot of things that have nothing to do with foot­ball. I love to play football and I love to go out to compete to win." 
This preseason, Tuiasosopo 

threw for 343 yards and com­pleted 29 of his 44 passes with four interceptions and no touchdowns. He has been tak­ing snaps with the first-team offense at times and is more athletic than Collins, allowing him to move more in the pock­et. 
The fans have been calling for him to get an opportunity for weeks now, chanting "Tui! Tui!" when the offense takes the field. 
"I have nothing to say about it," receiver Jerry Porter said about the situation. "No matter who's the quarterback, I'll be OK. I've been with Marques all five years he's been here." 
After a promising start to the season, the 32-year-old Collins has lately found himself facing constant questions -just like his mistake-prone year last season -about the Raiders' ineffective offense. 
"That's a tough one," left tackle Barry Sims said of the . possible QB move. "I don't think Kerry's played in a way that suggests that he should be replaced, but at the same time, Tui's been here a long time, and hardly played at all. It would be interesting to see how he handles himself, but I don't think that Kerry should be replaced by any means. I think he's the quarterback, and it's his job. I think you can't pin the whole loss on him." 
Collins has completed 245 of his 446 passes for 3,118 yards and 16 touchdowns, but he has thrown 10 interceptions and been sacked 32 times for 194 lost yards. 
His recent struggles have been surprising after his strong start in his first full sea­son as starter. Collins didn't throw an interception until his 141st pass in Week 5 against San Diego, then didn't give up another pick for 95 more attempts. Seven of his 10 inter­ceptions have ~orne in the past four games, including three in a 31-17 home loss to Denver on Nov. 13. 
"Kerry wants to play," Turner said. "He's a competi­tor. He's a strong guy. He gives everything he's got." 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


Bowl teams failing to 111eet nevv standards 
Associated Press above the 925 cutoff. 
"Obviously we would like to 

OHLANDO, Fla. -This year's see those statistics higher," said bowl-bound college football NCAA spokesman Bob Williams. teams are struggling to meet "But this is a process that the the NCAA's new academic stan­NCAA member institutions are dards, with 41 percent falling going through to change behav­below minimum requirements ior and essentially ensure the and almost half lacking a 50 student athletes, coaches and percent graduation r·ate, everyone involved in collegiate ·according to a survey released athletics understands that aca­Monday. demic achievement and aca­
The 56 Division 1-A football demic performance is just as teams headed to bowl games important as athletic perform­have a lingering problem of too anee." many student-athletes failing to While the APH figures give complete their studies, said schools an up-to-date assess­Hichard ment of how Lapchick, the they're doing, University of the graduation Central Florida rates are still professor who "The key is admitting useful in show­authored the ing the disparity
students who are 
annual report. in the gradua­
qualified to be in that
"The key is tion rates admitting stu­school." between blaek dents who are and white stu­qualified to be in dent-athletes,
Richard Lapchick 
that school," said Lapchick said. 
University of Central
Lapchick, who Two-thirds of 
Florida professor 
heads the DeVos the bowl-bound 
Sport Business Management Program at UCF. 
This is the first year Lapchick has used the NCAA's Academic Progress Hate, known as APH, to meas­ure the bowl-bound schools' academic progress. In past years, the study has relied sole­ly on graduation rates. 
Developed last year, the NCAA's new academic standard awards APR points based on how many scholarship student­athletes meet academic eligibil­ity standards. A cutoff score of 925 means an estimated 50 percent of those student-ath­letes are on track graduate. 
Starting this year, NCAA schools that regularly fall below the 925 score can lose scholar­ships, face recruiting restric­tions and miss postseason play. 
In a dry run of the system last year, more than 90 percent of Division I teams across all sports had passing scores. According to Lapchick's report, only 33 of the 56 bowl-bound teams -59 percent -got schools graduat­
ed less than half 
of their African­
American foot­ball student-athletes. By com­parison, 49 percent of the bowl­bound schools failed to have a 50 percent graduation rate overall for those players, according to Lapchick's report. 
Lapehick praised Northwestern University and Boston College for doing the best job of graduating football players. Both teams graduated at least 78 percent of all foot­ball student-athletes and at least 74 percent of Afriean­American football student-ath­letes. 
Two conferences, the Atlantic Coast Conference and the Big East, had every one of their bowl-bound schools receive an APH score higher than 925, and all the teams in both confer­enees were in the top 25 of APR rankings for bowl-bound schools. 
The Pacific 1O's five schools chosen for bowl games scored less than 925. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
HOLIDAY HELP $17.25 base-appt  KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES  New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full  4 Bdrm 2 Bath remodeled house  FREE POOL TABLES if you sign a  
flex. schedules, cust sales/service,  FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07  Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace,  Grad Students or Faculty 1  lease w/Biue & Gold Homes before  
NOTICES  no exp. nee., cond. apply,  SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM- Cathedral Ceilings, 10x20 Deck,  075 Riverside DR.  1/15. 4-7 bdrm homes available for  
all ages 18 & older,  PUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UPTO 10  Close to Campus. $1700 monthly.  $1 000/mo + 1000 Deposit  2nd sem. (574)250-7653.  
NO BOWL TRAVEL  Call Now, Start After Finals!  BEDROOMS. CALL315-5032  Available Aug. 06/07, Call574-232­ 574-234-5041  
DISCOUNTED AIR AND STUDENT HOTELS  South Bend 574-273-3835 Indianapolis 317-253-2734  ASK FOR KRAMER.  4527, 269-683-5038.  Two story house completely remod- PERSONAL  
AnthonyTravel.com  Bloomington 812-330-11 04  123 NO Ave. 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call  3-6 BDRM HOMES FOR 06/07.  eled 2003.  
LaFortune -Basement  574-229-0149.  ALSO NOW.329-0308  Ready for immediate occupancy or  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
631-7080  Ani Difranco,  next semester or next school year.  not go it alone. If you or someone  
Caesar Chavez,  908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm  5-bdrm,2-bath remodeled house.  Off street parking  you love needs confidential support  
Rock the World  John Lennon, Upton Sinclair,  home 4 blocks to NO. 2 baths, w/d,  Grad students or faculty. Walk to  includes motion sensor light for  or assistance, please call  
SAVE THE PLANET  Noam Chomsky...  broadband internet incl. Avail. 06-07  NO. $1100/mo. $1100 deposit 574­ security. Four individually locked  Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819.  
Activists needed to protect  OVER BREAK  & 07-08 school year. 327 Hill St:  292-8980.  bedrooms,  For more information, see our bi­ 
lndianas environment- ADD YOUR NAME TO THE LIST­ NEED A HOME TODAY? NEED A  central station monitored security  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
$375+/wk, 2-10pm M-F,  FIGHT FOR WHAT IS RIGHT!  SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3  For rent: Two story house com- system, six blocks from Notre  
Pt for college students  Envir. Work!  bdrm home. Close to NO & Corbys.  pletely remodeled 2003. Ready for  Dame, bus stop  SPRING BREAK-Early Booking  
(574)232-7905  $375+/wk 2-10pm M-F FT/PT  Broadband internet option. WID &  immediate occupancy or next  in front of house, surrounded by  Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks ­ 
Available. 574-232-7905.  alarm system avail. Move in today.  semeseter or next school year. Off  other student housing,  $50 Deposit ­ 
WANTED  Law student needed  Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or email  street parking includes motion sen­sor light for security. Four individu- Laundomat next door, basement  800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com  
part time by local company  JCrimmins@ myLandGrantcom  ally locked bedrooms, central sta­ available for storage  
START @$70 for a 5 hour event!  to assist in patent application and  lion monitored security system, six  of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc.,  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5  
Responsible for  research projects.  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop  new furnace and central air,  Days from $299! Includes Meals,  
promoting brands,  Flex hours. Contact 574-532-1187.  bdrrns includes all utilities, local  in front of house, surrounded by  new kitchen including new stove  MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun,  
distributing samples  phone,washer/dryer,security sys- other student housing, Laundromat  and refrigerator, large living room  Acapulco, Jamaica From $499!  
/brochures  tem. $400/student 574-315-2509  next door, basement available for  for TV or entertaining, f  Campus Reps Needed!  
& demonstrating  FoR RENT  ndstudentrentals.com 2006  storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks,  ree trash removal.  PromoCode:31 www.springbreak­ 
products to  SPRING SEMESTER NOW AVAIL- etc., new furnace and central air,  Call 289-4071.  travel.com 1 -800-678-6386  
consumers.  WALK TO SCHOOL  ABLE.  new kitchen including new stove  
Part-time & weekends  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES  and refrigerator. large living room  1 bedroom apartment for rent 1 mile  4A Snowball Fued Scoreboard:  
4-6 hours. Apply at  MMMRENTALS.COM  Stop overpaying for rent Visit  for TV or entertaining, free trash  to campus. $575/mo. Laundry.  Sharky & Schuda....................... 2  
www.eventsandpromotions.com  532-1408  BlueGoldrentals.com  removal. Call 289-4071.  Call 283-0325  JT & Dolph .....  ............... 5  

.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, December 6, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 

NFL 
Men's Basketball Coaches Poll 
team  record  llotes  
1  Duke (25)  7-0  767  
2  Texas (4)  7-0  739  
3  Connecticut  6·0  718  
4  Villanova  4-0  689  
5  Louslvllle  3·0  618  
6  Boston College  6·0  605  
7  Memphis  6-1  554  
8  Florida  7-0  519  
9  Oklahoma  4-1  516  
10  Illinois  7·0  467  
11  Gonzaga  4-2  460  
12  Washington  7·0  393  
13  Iowa  7-1  375  
14  Michigan State  5·2  329  
15  Kentucky  5·2  298  
16  Indiana  4·1  255  
17  Maryland  5·1  229  
18  UCLA  6·1  228  
19  Alabama  4·1  205  
20  George Washington  4·0  161  
21  Wake Forest  7-1  157  
22  Nevada  5·0  145  
23  NC State  5·1  124  
24  North Carolina  4·1  92  
25  Arizona  2·3  81  

Men's Swimming Coaches Poll 
learn points 
1 Auburn 200 
2 California 192 
3 Stanford 183 
4 Michigan 177 
5 Arizona 169 
6 Texas 159 
7 Florida 153 
8 Minnesota 142 
9 usc 137 
10 Tennessee 129 
11 Indiana 120 
12 Georgia 108 
13 Virginia 100 
14 Florida Stale 98 
15 Purdue 84 
16 Penn State 83 
17 Northwestern 72 
18 Kentucky 68 
19 NDTREDAME 50 
20 Brigham Young 40 
21 Ohio State 39 
22 Alabama 34 
23 North Carolina 31 
24 NC State 13 
25 Missouri 10 
Women's Big East Basketball 
team total W-L pet. 
1 DePaul 7·0 1.000 2 St. John's 7-0 1.000 3 Connecticut 6·0 1.000 4 NOTRE DAME 6·0 1.000 5 Rutgers 5·0 1.000 6 Marquelle 5·1 0.833 7 USF 5·1 0.833 8 Villanova 5·1 0.833 9 Cincinnati 4·1 0.800 10 Louisville 4-1 0.800 11 Plllsburgh 5·2 0.714 12 Georgetown 4·2 0.667 13 Syracuse 4·2 0.667 14 West Virginia 3-2 0.600 15 Seton Hall 2·4 0.333 16 Providence 1·6 0.143 
around the dial 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL Kansas at St. Joseph's 
7:00 p.m, ESPN Michigan State at Boston College 
9:00 p.m, ESPN 
NHL New York Islanders at St. Louis 
8:00 p.m, OLN Atlanta at Anahaim 10:30 p.m., OLN 

AP Seattle Seahawks linebacker Lofa Tatupu celebrates after intercepting a Mike McMahon pass for a touchdown. The Seahawks had six turnovers and three defensive touchdowns in the 42-0 rout of the Eagles. 

Seaha-wks dotninate depleted Eagles 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -A cross-country trip to Philadelphia for a Monday night game in the snow hasn't exactly been a for­mula for success. Then again, these are not the same old Seattle Seahawks. 
Using big plays on defense, including inter­ception returns for touch­downs by Andre Dyson and rookie Lofa Tatupu, and smaller ones from their top-ranked offense, the Seahawks routed the Eagles 42-0. 
Neither are these the same Eagles who made the last four NFC ehampi­onship games. Philadelphia (5-7) has been torn apart by injuries and the Terrell Owens affair and played its worst game since becom­ing an NFC force in 2001. 
Certainly a better fight was expected. Yet the Seahawks (10-2) dominat­ed from the outset, win­ning their eighth straight game, tying a team record 
. set in 1984. They gained only 194 yards overall ­the Seahawks were aver­aging 386-but didn't need to do much after tak­ing a 35-0 halftime lead. Seattle, which got two short touchdowns runs from NFL rushing leader Shaun Alexander, sort of sneaked its way to the top of the conference and barely survived the New 
York Giants last week. In the Monday night spotlight, though, the NFC West champions filled the score­board. 
The only negative came when Dyson, after he returned Ryan Moats' fum­ble 25 yards for another touchdown on the first play of the second half, sprained his left ankle . Dyson was carried off the field by several team­mates. 
It was Philadelphia's worst loss since a 38-0 flop against Seattle to open the 1998 season. Indeed, as Dyson scored on his fum­ble return, the Line pretty much emptied out. The majority of fans stayed that long only because the Eagles retired Heggie White's No. 92 at halrtime. 

The Eagles, who had six turnovers, were shut out for the first time since 2003 when Tampa Bay beat them 1 7-0 in the first game in the new stadium. It was the Eagles' worst home loss since they were beaten 49-0 by Green Bay in 1962. 
And, they lost running back Brian Westbrook with a sprained foot. 
It didn't take along for Seattle's powerful offense to begin the scoring. Well, it actually took morn than eight minutes on the open­ing drive, a relentless march featuring four third­down conversions and 16 plays. 
IN BRIEF 
Clemens unsure if he will 
continue to play next year 
DALLAS --Hoger Clemens hasn't decided if he will pitch next season, again leaving the Houston Astros in a bind as they plan for 2006. 
"Today, he would retire if he had to make the decision," Clemens' agent, Randy Hendricks, said Monday at baseball's winter meetings. 
Hendricks added that the seven­time Cy Young Award winner, who hobbled ofT the mound after only two innings in Game 2 of the World Series against the Chicago White Sox because of a strained left hamstring, probably won't make a decision until late January or early February. 
The Astros have until Wednesday night to sign Clemens or offer him salary arbitration. Otherwise, he would not be able to re-sign with them before May 1. 
"It's the same situation we were in last year where we were uncertain as to when we would get an answer," Houston general manager Tim Purpura said. "It puts us at somewhat of a disadvantage to build our club." La Salle basketball player
avoids sexual assault cllarges 
PIIILADELPHIA --Sexual assault charges against former La Salle bas­ketball player Dzaflo Larkai were dis­missed Monday because his accuser, a former member of the women's team, decided not to proceed with the case on the day the trial was to begin. 
Larkai, 23, was accused of raping the 19-year-old woman in April 2003. She told authorities she dido 't make a report right away because coaches discouraged her from coming forward. 
Assistant District Attorney James Carpenter declined to say why the woman decided against taking the matter to trial. 
Larkai, a forward who attended school in England before enrolling at La Salle, declined to comment as he left the courthouse after the brief hearing. He had been charged with rape, sexual assault and other related offenses. 

29 players earn PGA tour 
card for 2006 season 
WINTEH GAHDEN, Fla. -.John llolmes played the best golf. while Bill Haas and Danny Ellis delivered the drama Monday to join 29 otlwrs who survived the most grueling wonk on the PGA Tour to 11arn their cards fin· next year. 
Holmes became the first player in 22 years to leave college and win tlw PGA Tour qualifying tournament, dos­ing with a 3-under 69 to win by three shots over Alex Cejka of Germany. It was a magnificent week at Orange County National for llolmes, the for­mer Kentucky star who helped the United States win the Walker Cup this summer. lie was the only player to shoot in the 60s all six rounds. 
''I'm just glad it's over," said Holmes, who finislwd at 24-under 
408. "I made it prntty easy on myself this week. I just went out thnre and tried to play 18 holes every day and act like I was playing with my bud­dies. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 6, 2005 

Road 
continued from page 20 
Jeff Jackson appears to have settled on Brown. 
The junior has played in each of the last seven contests, starting six of them. He recorded his fifth career shutout Sat-urday against the Broncos. 
"That's what we need from Browny," O'Neill said. "He's a great goalie." 
The Irish fell behind Western 4-1 midway through the sec­ond period of Friday's 4-3 loss in Kalamazoo, Mich. Con­versely, when Notre Dame was able to get and hold a lead in 
the second period of Saturday's contest, the Irish went on to win. 
"We're not a team that needs to be trying to come back night after night," Jackson said. 
After going four games with­out a point, O'Neill burst back on to the scene against Western Michigan with a goal and an assist. Jackson said he 
hopes the talented junior can continue his improvement against Minnesota State. 
The Mavericks, whose school was formerly known as Mankato State, started this season with six straight losses but have since recovered to go 3-3-3 in their last nine con­tests. 
They went to overtime in two 

games against Minnesota­Deluth this past weekend, los­ing 4-3 on Friday and earning a 2-2 tie Saturday. 
The Irish and Mavericks will also square off Saturday at the Joyce Center. That game begins at 7:05p.m. 
Contact Chris Khorey at 
ckhorey@nd.edu 


YOU MU~T BE ~1 YEAR~ OF AGE WITH 
AmiDID 
TO CON~UME ALCOHOL AT THESE E~TABLI~HMENT~ I PLEA~E DRINK RE~PONSIBLY~ DON'T DRINK AND DRIVEI 

Monday: Karaoke Night, $2.50 House Special 
Tuesday: $1.50 Domestic Bottles $2.00 Wells 
Wednesday: Trivia Night, $3.00 Pitchers 
Thursday: $3.00 Imports 
Sunday: $10.00 Domestic Buckets 
Kitchen Open Every Day Daily Grill Specials: M-Th 4pm-3am Fri 11 am-3am Sat 4pm-3am Sun 11 am-12midnight 
574.234.4015 
~~r·j~ 
IRISH PUB 
1ft EST. 1990 ~ (?-.e aee ~ ~«4 -u ~ 
TuESDAYS AND THURSDAYS: 
$3.00 PITCHERS $I .00 DOMESTIC DRAFTS 
NO COVER! 
$1.00 CANS EVERY DAY OF SELECT DOMESTICS 

Swdelll Niltill T111117dgt? 
Doors open @ 1 0 $2 Cover Charge with Student ID or $5 without $1.50 Domestic Drafts $1.50 Well Drinks $1.50 Domestic Bottles Food Served All Night -Music by DJ-CK1 222 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST, SOUTH BEND 
W'WW.t::IUDJ"eYe.-.DIZ 
Watch all Notre Dame Games­


Never a cover Most and Largest with Student ID 
Screens in Town GO IRISH 

2046 South Bend Ave Across from Martins Plaza 272-1766 
of 
the 

MADIS()N ()YS'TER l~AR 



Open Sundays from 6-12 

$1.25 dogs $1.25 drafts ALL DAY EVERY DAY 
100fo Discount w/ Student ID 
1733 South Bend Ave. 
57 4.277.2527 
MONDAY All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets, Monday Night Football on HDTV 
TUESDAY ND penny night, $1 off cover with student ID, DJ all night, 1¢ wells and drafts 
WEDNESDAY Live trivia night with cash prizes and free drinks, 1 to 8 people per team, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Defending champs: ND law Legal Eagles. 69¢ bitty burger, 49¢ wings, $10.00 buckets 
$2 



THURSDAY Every Thursday Private Party for ND, HC and SMC students 2nd Penny night. 1 ¢ wells and drafts, OJ plays hits all night long 
FRIDAY OJ till 3:00a.m., pre-game warm up 
SATURDAY Game day· Go IRISH. OJ after games, celebrate victory and boogie till dawn. ESPN game plan 
SUNDAY $1.50 burgers, dogs, fries and bottles. NFL Sunday tickets· 14 screens. 

Bring this coupon in on Friday or Saturday after 1 OPM for $2.00 admission 
jj.·\~efiV'THV~SDAY?Ji 

$2 
ANY drink 
in the house!! 

OPEN MIC NIGHT!! 
Come play or sing on stage with our entertainers 

ENORMOUS Basket of Fries 


NCAA FOOTBALL 



Paterno and Bowden face off in Orange Bowl 
Coaches meet for the first time since 1990 
Blockbuster Bowl 
Associated Press 
MlAM I -When their tnams last nwl, Bobby Bowden asked .lo11 l'alPrno how mueh longer lw plannmllo slay in coaching. 
Sixll1m1 years Ialor, the leg­Pnds may have that conversa­tion again. 
Florida Slate (S-41 and Penn Slltln (I 0-1 I will nHwl in lhn FedEx Orange Bowl at Miami on Jan. :~. a gamn that'll mark a showdown hetwnnn major col­lngn football's two winningnst eoaelws. It's the sixth Bowl Championship Series appear­anee in eight years for the Snminolos, the first-ever for Palnrno's third-ranked Nittany Lions. 
And !Wither septuagenarian -Paterno turns 79 later this month, Bowden is 76 -wishes to play a starring role in the pregame hype. 
"I think we just ought to for­get about the Bobby Bowden­Joe Paterno relationship," Patnrno said.."1 think we ought 

Cotton Bowl officials propose costly stadium renovation 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -The Cotton Bowl would add more than 16,000 seats and undergo extensive remodeling under a plan unveiled Monday, but the city's mayor warned that the home of the Texas-Oklahoma game games the stadium hosts. The city has been trying to lure
unch and Conversation 
Texas A&M and Texas Teeh to play its annual game at Fair

For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning 
Park.

Students at Notre Dame 
Before this year's game, Texas athletic director DeLoss Dodds said he wanted to keep the Texas-Oklahoma game in must receive new commit­ments before renovations are approved. 

The nearly $50 million pro­posal would upgrade seats, concession stands, score­boards and restrooms to the decaying 75-year-old stadium. Seating capacity would to bn looking at two good foot­ball toams that are going to go down there and have a chance to knoek each other's brains out." 
Penn State shared the Big 1 0 championship with Ohio State, but earned the league's auto­matie BCS spot by beating the Buekoyes earlier this sPason. The Snminoles are the lowest­ranked team in thn BCS, finish­ing 22nd in the limd standings and getting into the mix only by upsntting Virginia Teeh on Saturday for the Atlantic Coast Conference title. 
Still, game officials said they're thrilled to have a Howden-Paterno matehup. 
"We are extremely proud to have two of the best here.... Two marquee coaehes in the game, one and two respective­ly," Orange Bowl CEO Keith Tribble said. 
Bowden has 359 wins, six more than Paterno -and both steered their teams to surpris­ing eomebaek stories in 2005. 
Bowden's Florida State team snapped a three-game losing streak on Saturday when it beat then No. 5-Virginia Tech for the ACC crown -the Seminoles' 12th in 14 seasons. Florida State's reward turned out to be a matchup with another highly touted opponent, a Penn State team that nearly went unbeat­en. 
"I feel very fortunate for us," said Bowden, whose team fell from the national rankings after losing three straight. "I feel vnry happy for our boys and our assistant eoaches that we were able to do it. Naturally I feel very lueky about it and some­times I can't hardly believe it." 
Amid whispers that their longtime coaeh is too old to compete, Paterno's Nittany Lions had lost 17 of their last 24 games entering this season and haven't won a bowl game sinee the 1999 season. But only a last-second touchdown by Miehigan kept Penn State from finishing this regular season with a perfeet record. 
"We've caught a lot of heck this year. I've caught a lot of heck," Bowden said. "I can look at Joe's program and say, 'Look there. Just be patient. Look what'll happen.' ... It just sub­stantiates my feeling that nobody's going to win forever. You can have a bad year. You can have a bad series of years. You can have a bad cycle, but Dallas but was not optimistic. He said he would find it diffi­cult for the city to commit so much money to a stadium that hosts only a handful of games each year. 

But Miller told the newspa­per that negotiations were "going very well" between Texas and Oklahoma and that she expected an announce­ment in .January. 
"We won't lose it. We're not going to lose it," Miller said. 
Sinee 1929, the rivalry has been played in Dallas, halfway between the campuses in Norman, Okla., and Austin. The stadium is equally divided between burnt orange-elad Texas fans and crimson Sooners and anchors the sur­rounding Statn Fair of Texas. 
I 
I 
I 
l 
I 
I 
I ·I 
Thursday, December 8th 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an informal lunch and study break at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Lunch will be served* 


UNIVERSITY 
~~~~~~--~--~~­

0 UTFITTERSIM 
the campus stort~ off t:ampus"" 
6ent disc0~'<vv. v_, 
-bowl merchandise* ~ 
•bowl merchandi5e available week of I 2-' 
located in the Martin's Supt~mlarket Plaza I hlock east of 'lurtle Creek Apartments 
243-4197 

increase to 92,100 under the 34-proposal that was to be submitted to the City Council. 
Frustrated with the deterio­rating facility, athletic direc­tors from Texas and Oklahoma have threatened to exercise an opt-out after 2007 and switch the Red River Rivalry to a home-and-home series. 
Dallas Mayor Laura Miller said she wants extended com­mitments from schools before making improvements. Miller said in Monday's online edition of The Dallas Morning News that if the city doesn't receive long-term pledges, "then we won't upgrade the Cotton Bowl." 
Prairie View-Grambling and the AT&T Cotton Bowl Classic are the only other football that's not the end because you can come back." 
Bowden is 1-6 all-time against Paterno; he lost all six meetings as West Virginia's coach in the early 1970s, and guided Florida State to a 24-1 7 victory over Penn State in the 1990 Blockbuster Bowl, also at Miami. 

Tuesday, December 6, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, December 6, 2005 




Career Development Classes 
Professional Development Seminar-AL23001 (For Seniors Onfy) 
T~esdays & Thursdays: January 24 -11arch 9 Professional Development Seminar will allow you to... Explore leadership concepts; business etiquette; communication in the workplace; financial plan­ning and more about your work style and the types of work that might interest you! 
Career Development Seminar-AL23002 (First Year Studies} Sophomores and juniors) 
l\1ondays: March 20 -May 1 Career Development Seminar will help you ... Find a career that fits who you are; Learn what you can do with your major; Learn how to find an 
internship related to your interests or majors; aed more. 
For more information about these classes, call The Career Center at 631-5200. 

Upcoming Career Fairs 

Winter Career and Internship Fair andDiversityReception 
Wednesday, February 1, 2006 Diversity Reception: 12:00-2:30 p.m., Monogram Room Career Fair: 4:00-8:00 p.m., Joyce Center Visit http://careercenter.nd.edu/dynamic.php?content=WCIF2006 for more information. 

Career andInternship Connections 
New York, January 4, 2006 Washington D.C., January 5, 2006 
Chicago, January 6, 2006 Boston, January 9, 2006 
Career Fair: 9:30-11:30 a.m.; Interviews: 12:15-5:00 p.m. 
Visit http://www.ecampusrecruiter2.com/cic for more information. 

Diversity on LaSalle 
Friday, February 3, 2006 in Chicago For application information, please contact Jonika Moore jmoon: 5@lnd.cdu 

Big East Career Fair 
Friday, 1\!farch 10, 2006 in New York City Visit http://www.eventemanagement.com/bigeast2006/ for more information. 

Indiana Careers Consortium Career andInternship Fair 
Friday, March 24, 2006 at Indiana University South Bend For more information, contact Indiana Careers at Notre Dame at 574-631-2964 or InclianaCareers@nd.edu. 

Hire Big 10 Plus Career Fair 
Friday, April 7, 2006 in Chicago Visit http://careercenter.nd.edu for more information! 
The Career Center 248 Planner Hall• (574) 631-5200 • careercenter.nd.edu • ndcps@nd.edu 
Tuesday, December 6, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
where I am at this point in the we're at establish a starting Though the athletes wenl able Madia, who is a part of' both season. I'm pleased." point for the rest of the year." finally test their abilities in a the cross country t<Htm and


Meet 
continued from page 20 
left llw med feeling pretty happy about where we am this year." 
The meet was a suceess because several members of both the men's and wonwn's learns qualified for the Big East Championship meet. In addition, freshman pole vaulter Mary Saxer took full advantage of lwr first collegiato competition and qualified fin· the NCAA Hegional liiiHll at llw University of TnmwsSIHl in late May. 
''I'm pretty happy with how it went," SaxPr said. "ll wasn't my best jump. but being my f'irst college rnelll, and looking at 

Reuland 
continued from page 20 
at landing Heuland. 
"I would be very, very sur­prised if he went anywhere but Notre Dame," Frank said Monday night. 
Members of the Notre Dame men's and women's teams fin­ished first in nearly evnry nvent. Several athletes -senior Mnghan Horn in the shot put and weight throw; freshman Alyissa llasan in the 60-meter hurdles and long jump; senior Hyan Postel in the 400-meter dash and 200-meter dash -lin­islwd lirsl in multiple events. 
But despite the successful fin­ishes and early qualifiers, coach­es and players were quick to put this early suecess in perspeetive. 
"I was pretty happy with how things went and I'm glad to qualify," junior pole vaulter Dave Viken said. "We've been working pretty hard all fall, and this meet gives us a chance to see where 
Millar said the team now knows what it has to work on. 
"We certainly have a ways to go considering all that we have ahead of us, but we have an idea where we are now and where we're going to end up," Millar said. "We have a better idea of what they need to do over the holidays to improve." 
With three weeks away from school and ollicial practices, the team can now use tlHl results from this meet to assess what their abilities are and work to improve for the next event in January. 
The Purdue Open is set for Jan. 14, the first weekend the Irish will be back from winter break. 
competitive environment, they now will have to take the nxtra initiative and prepare on their own for the next several weeks. 
"Everyone was feeling good, our coach said we did really well, but we'll have to train hard over winter break because we'rn coming right back into the sea­son that first week," Saxer said. "All in all, everyone has a good attitude going into the season." 
Notes: 
Senior distance runner Stephanie Madia was selectnd as 
. one of four finalists for the Honda Sports Award in <Toss country, which honors the nation's top cross country run­ner. 

track and f'ield team, f'inished sixth or higher in all five raens in whieh shn partir.ipated. Shn cappnd oil' the cross country sea­son by coming in third at tlw NCAA championships. 
''I'm really honored, and I know that there arn a lot or ath­letes considered for this award," Madia said. "I roally just eonsid­er myself' fortunate to be among the bnst in thn country. I've rnal­ly matured in this program and I consider mysolf as so blessed to have made the right decision athletically and aeadnmkally. It's nice to sen tlw hard work J'vn put in pay ofT." 
Contact Jason Galvan at jgalvan2@nd.edu 
Irish dass and the second tight Damn's program has stood out end to commit to Notre Dame. for Heuland -the lwad coach 
"Anytime you can pick up a himself. The tight end citnd Weis five-star player, you are doing as the main draw to South Bend well," Frank said. "Notre Dame "They've shown me a lot of' targeted two tight ends this year commitment," Heuland said or -[Heuland] and [current Irish the Notre Dame staff. "IWeisl commit] Paddy Mullen. If they has done a really good job land IHeulandl. then they landed recruiting me." the two top guys that they want­Like most recruits, Heuland ed." dreams of playing in the NFI. 
Notre Dame's competition after college. Heuland said he is does have one obvious advan­confident Weis would do an tage in the recruitment of' excellent job preparing him for Heuland, though -location. the next level. 
Southern California and UCLA "That's something I want to do arc both a short drive from the is play in the NFL. And Coach tight end's home in Mission Weis is a great link to the NFI.," Viejo. But Reuland insists he is Heuland said. "lie knows so not afraid to leave the warm many people. I really feel hn weather of Southern California. could do a real good job of put­
"I definitely think I can handle ting me up in the NFI.." the cold." Reuland said. "I lived Fasano hostnd Heuland on tht~ in Germany in 1~ighth grade, so second night of his official visit I'm used to it. Ideally, I'd rather to Notre Dame. Heuland said have it like Southern California Fasano is nxaetly the type of' 
-great weath­ tight  end  hn  
er all the time.  would like to be  
But it's not going to sway my decision either way." Heuland is  "I would be very, very surprised ifIReuland! went anywhere but Notre Dame. ,,  in collogo -one who excels in both tho passing and running gamo.  
attraeted to dif­ ''I'd definitely  
ferent aspects of each of his final three schools.  Mike Frank lrlsheyes.com  like to be a bal­anced tight end like him,"  
The  tight  end  Heuland  said.  
said he knows  "That would bo  

he would enjoy playing under ideal for mo. I just want to be a head coach Pete Carroll at balanced tight end instead of' Southern California. more of' a ren~iving tight 1md." 
"It seems like they really have Frank bnlinves HPuland has fun over there -everybody on already aehievnd that balanee, the team," Heuland said. adding tremendous blocking to "ICarrolll would just be a great his already great rneniving skills guy to play for." this season. Frank said Hnuland 
UCLA coach Karl Dorrell and will remind Irish fans of' a eom­his coaching staff have caught bination of' Fasano and baekup Reuland's att1mtion with the usn tight end John Carlson. of their tight ends, particularly "lin's got the !wight and tlw senior Marcedes Lewis. Lewis -athletic ability of Carlson, who along with Notre Dame tight end might be a little bit morn fluid Anthony Fasano -is one of' than Fasano," Frank said. "But three finalists for the John he also has Fasano's toughness Mackey Award. which is given to and his blocking ability, so lw's the top tight end in the nation kind of' really a combination of' each season. both those guys. 
"They definitely have it going "lie's a tremendous player." from a tight end standpoint," Heuland said of the Bruins. Contact Kevin Brennan at 
One specific aspect of Notre kbrenna4@nd.edu 
Heuland took an official visit to Notre Dame for the Navy game on Nov. 12. The tight end came away impressnd with the game day atmosphere and the passion of the Notre Dame stu­dents and fans. 
Heuland is consistently rated as one of' the country's top play­ers. Hivals.com gives him five stars and ranks him as the top tight end and the No. 42 player overall in the nation. The tight end also receives five stars from Scout.com, who rates Reuland as the No.2 tight end nationally. 
Weis has secured 22 known verbal commitments. Heuland would be an excellent addition to an already highly thought of 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 6, 2005 
parison for Boockford, a Glen Ellyn, Ill., native. 

Signings 
"Billy really reminds me a lot 
continued from page 20 
center spotlight as a freshman in 2007 if heavily scouted junior catcher Sean Gaston signs with a Major League team after the cur­rent season. 
"If [Gaston] signs professional­ly, then we're talking about hav­ing a situation where Ryan Smith will be coming in· as a freshman and competing [for the starting job] with Eddy Mendiola, who we recruited as an infielder and we're converting to the catching position this fall," 
of Jeff Samardzija on the mound," Mainieri said. "He's just a real confident, competitive kid that is fearless. I just think he's going to contribute a big way to our program and be a real natu­ral leader to our team." 
Mainieri said while Boockford and Scheid bring confidence, Mazur brings flre to the Irish. 
"Mazur throws a little bit hard­er than Scheid," Minieri said. "Steven is, I think the best way to describe him is he's a bulldog on the mound. When I watched him 
pitch, I just saw a 

Student Christmas Party Wednesday, December 7th 
Special Appearance from "Santa and His Helpers" Doors at 10 ~ Drink Specials 
CLUBFEVER.BIZ 

Mainieri said. guy who attacked
"We,re going to be
Mainieri said the hitters." the situation at awfully young, but I Notre Dame catcher is still feel confident added quality emblematic of pitchers to its ros­
that we ,ll be able to
why this fall's ter, but Mainieri 
recruiting class maintain playing at said that the Irish was so important. a high level.,, recruits at the "We're going to daily positions are be a young team just as good as the
Paul Mainieri 
next year," he pitchers. said. "In 2007, we Irish coach "It was really 
could have as many as 20 of 30 players on our roster as freshmen or sopho­mores. It will be a unique year for our program." 
Mainieri said there are serious down sides in having a young team but noted past Irish success in situations like Notre Dame will have in 2007. 
"In '99, we started four or five freshmen every day, and that team ended up hosting an NCAA Regional for the first time ever in Notre Dame history," Mainieri said. "In '03, the year after we went to the [College] World Series, we had a lot of turnover again, and we had a lot of young players again that contributed. And we had a tremendous year and went to the Regional at Fullerton. 
"We are going to be awfully young, but I still feel confident that we'll be able to maintain playing at a high leveL" 
Mainieri said he expects the 2007 Irish team to utilize heavily the three right-handed pitchers in this year's recruiting class to stay at a nationally competitive leveL 
Billy Boockford, Steven Mazur and Andrew Scheid all join the Irish as highly touted prospects. 
Scheid, a 6-foot-7, 200-lb. starting pitcher for Regis Jesuit High School outside of Denver, Colo., enters Notre Dame as one of the nation's top pitching recruits after averaging almost 12 strikeouts per nine innings in his junior campaign at Regis Jesuit. 
"Andrew really could have gone to just about any school he wanted to in the country," Mainieri said. "For us to land him was a real major coup." 
Mainieri compared Scheid to former Irish star Brad Lidge, another tall right-hander from Denver. 
He saved a more recent com-
critical for us to replace position players because on our team in 2006 we could have as many as six seniors in our everyday starting lineup," he said. "So it was really important for us to bring in some quality position players, particularly in the outfield." 
The Irish signed four outfield­ers in the class, including two speedy lefties. 
David Mills, a versatile 5-foot­10 player from Battle Creek, Mich., and 5-foot-7 Michael Wright of Lockhart, Texas give Notre Dame a dimension of basepath speed it has been lack­ing in previous years. 
"We brought in two little speed guys, which I felt that we were in badly need of some speed into our program," Mainieri said. "Both [Mills and Wright] are the prototypical left­handed spray hitter that can really run." 
The power hitter of the out­fielders is Austin Pearce of Lake Oswego, Ore. The 6-foot-2, 210­lb. switch hitter has the most explosive bat of the 10 Irish signees, Mainieri said. 
"He's another kid that's just full of a lot of enthusiasm, and he can really hit," Mainieri said. 
Other Irish signees were heavy-hitting outfielder Brayden Ashdown of Tuscon, Ariz., and sure-handed infielders Ryne Intlekofer (Moorpark, Calif.) and 
A.J. Pollock (Hebron, Conn.). 
"This class may rank as high as any in the. overall enthusiasm in the players," Mainieri said. "All of the kids are very outgo­ing personalities that are tremendously thrilled about being at Notre Dame.... We couldn't be more pleased with the group that we fmally signed and will see next August." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
open through Dec. 22nd 
University H:rir Stylist Located. in the LaFortune Center 



Tuesday, December 6, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
---------------------------~---------------------------------------------­
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 36 Blue eyes or 70 Pa. neighbor curly hair, say
1 Held a session 71 Alternative to 39 Like many plastic
4 Crustaceans college dorms, 
eaten by whales 72 Colorado's 
now Park9 Arcade flubs 40 Lean right, at 73 Otherworldly14 Each sea visitors, for short15 Kind of ink 
44 Diva's delivery 16 Former TWA 
45 Copier need DOWNhoncho Carl 46 "You. there!" 
1 Pitchman's pitch17 Ill temper 47 Hanker for 2 Hilltop home18 2003 Tom 50 Greek
Cruise movie, 3 Shoe stiffeners 
consonantswith "The" 4 Electrical power52 What So-Peep
20 Children's song unit
didrefrain 5 Genetic letters 
58 RR stop22 Mint or chive 6 Cards with61 Workers'
23 Mound dweller photos, for short
welfare
24 In memoriam 7 Certain print, 
overseer: Abbr.
phrase briefly
62 Looie's
28 "Ouien ?" 8 Surgical beam
underling("Who 9 Lumberjack's 
63 Van Gogh
knows?"): Sp. 
callbiography29 Creamsicle 10 Hasp. area67 Refinable rockcolor 11 Tomb raider of68 Put down
33 When doubled, film, _ Croft believe 49 Gas brand in 57 Suffers from a dance 69 Atelier prop ... ?" Canada sunburn 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE connector pinch41 Follow closely 53 Birdie score,
-::..-.,....,..,:-:-r::::-. 13 Foul mood 
often 59 Hefty horn42 Paddler's target 
-:-t-;:t-:-t:::-1 19 Cornstarch 
54 N.F.L. coach 60 Quickly, in
brand 43 NATO 
called "Papa memosheadquarters
•-=+~"=l 21 " been real!" 
Bear"
site 64 China's Lao­
~~:+.,;..j 25 River of Aragon 
55 Wear down
48 Housetop 65 Adherent's!r~~ml•• 26 Eat like a king laborer 56 "Snowy" bird suffix 27 Snack in a shell 30 Wyle of "ER" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a -::+::+.::+::-~ 31 Richard of credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday~~~~··· "Chicago" crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
1-:-if-:-+-:-t.• -=,....,.,cf'!!!''t'!'!' ~ 32 Whirling water Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
33 Decked out past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
34 Take on 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
35 Sales tag words solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
.;.:.J...=...&...:;..L.;...J 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one 
letter to each square. to form lour ordinary words. 
REVVE 
j 
1 
rx I I 
c02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
POTIV 
j 
I I r [] 
FLIEBE 
WHAT THE: H05T5 
WE:RE: 5 TUCK WITH 


..... 
WHEN THE PARTY
[ J I lu 
E:NDE:D. 
www.Jumble.com 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: POKER FELON MARTYR PARADEYesterday's 
Answer: The prison class learned that this comes at the end of a sentence-FREEDOM 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELE8R/T/ES HORN ON TIUS I> AY: Frankie Muniz, 20; John R/.eznik, 40; Margaret Cho, 37; Little Richard, 73 
Happy Birthday: The better equipped you are to adapt and think on your feet, the more you will enjoy your upcoming year. You can make great strides if you aren't rigid and are willing to put in the hours to linish what you start. Separate your personal and professional lives, and you will do well in both areas. Your numbers arc 8, 13, 15, 22, 35, 39 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You can do anything you set your mind to. Make a point of letting the people in your life know how you feel and what your intentions are. A financial opportunity looks promising. •••• TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Don't be too sure the people around you arc on your side. You will lind out you stand alone if you try to push your views. It may not be the best time to engage in something you know little about. •• GEMINI (May 21-./une 20): You won't have time to think today, but if you act on your instincts, you are likely to make positive things happen. You will be able to come up with unique ideas that will grab the attention of someone you've been trying to interest in your plans. ••••• CANCER (.lune 21-./uly 22): Something very unusual will surround financial or legal matters. Take a closer look and do whatever you can to sort out anything that doesn't look quite right. Avoid getting involved in a joint venture. ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may he a little confused in emotional matters or aflairs of the heart. Don't let that stop your generous Leo personality from helping others. Don't overspend or take on more than you can handle. •• • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): A colleague or peer may make you feel insecure. Persevere until you get past any of the ohstacles placed in your way. Sudden changes regarding your personal life will put you in the driver's seat. • •• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl. 22): Everyone will look to you f(Jr advice. Your wide variety of answers will put you in a category by yourself. Money can be made ifyou put a new spin on something you have been doing fi1r some time. ••••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be direct if you want to get things done right. You can expect someone to give you a hard time. Don't let any little mishap tum into a liasco. Control whatever situation you face as best you can. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-l>ec. 21): You may impress some of the people you encounter, but someone who can make a difTerence to your future may not he such a pushover. Make sure you have your facts straight. !'reparation will lead to success. •••• CAPRICORN (l>ec. 22-.Jan. 19): Someone you thought might help you get ahead is not likely to come through for you today. Don't count on anyone and you willsucceed. A secret you arc told must be kept. •• • AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have plenty on your mind, hut if you neglect the people you are closest to, you will face even greater diflicultics. An older relative will need your help and your advice. Do your best, but don't let him or her take advantage of you. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Dealing with institutions will be di!Ttcult and best left until a later date if possible. You won't get the satisfaction you arc looking lor through work or business communications. Focus on the lifestyle that best suits you. •• • 
Hirthday Baby: You are outgoing, entrepreneurial and always current. You have charm and linesse. You are emotional and always look out for others. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, euge~tialast.com jl1r COI!/Idential consultation.•; 
... 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, December 6, 2005 page 20 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Notre Dame hot on tight end Reuland's recruiting trail 
notice. "They are going to be a domi­"It went well. We had a really verbal commitment in the near 
By KEVIN BRENNAN "[Weis] has turned a program nant team over the next couple good time," Reuland said of the future -possibly as early as 
Sports Writer around in a year from an aver­of years.". visit. "[Weis] stayed over for a this weekend, he said, but defi­
age team to a powerhouse Heuland said he has devel­while and had dinner. It was nitely by the U.S. Army All­
Notre Dame head coach team," Reuland said in a phone oped a close relationship with really a good time. I enjoyed it, American Bowl on Jan. 7. Charlie Weis has made national interview with The Observer Weis and special teams coach and I think he did, too.'' Hecruits cannot sign letters of waves while leading Notre Monday night. "With just the Brian Polian, the Notre Dame Reuland has narrowed his list intent until February, but Mike Dame to a BCS bowl bid. And way he carries himself, his self assistant in charge of recruiting of college choices to Notre Frank of Irisheyes.com thinks Mission Viejo. Calif. tight end confidence, it just seems like Reuland. The two Irish coaches Dame, Southern California and the Irish have an excellent shot Konrad Reuland, one of the you know and he knows that visited Reuland at his home on UCLA. The Mission Viejo High nation's top recruits, has taken he's going to get it done. Nov. 27. product plans on announcing his see REULAND/page 14 
HOCKEY 
Changing the pace 
Irish travel to Minnesota State tonight for pivotal road contest after streak-snapping win over Western Michigan 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's routine is to practice all week and play Friday and Saturday games. But the Irish will be jolted from their routine by today's trip to Mankato, Minn., for a game against Minnesota State. 
The Irish last played Saturday in a 3-0 win over Western Michigan at the Joyce Center. The three-day turnaround between contests is the fastest of the season. 
Notre Dame heads into its game against the Mavericks riding a 17­game road winless streak that dates back to last season. 
Irish defenseman Wes O'Neill said he is actually excited to play a mid­week game as a change of pace. 
"It's back to the junior [Ievell days where you played every other day," he said. "It's a little tough during exams, but we prepare all year for weeks like this." 
Every player on the Irish roster played junior-level hockey before coming to South Bend. Most compet­ed in the United States Hockey League, while three player -right wing Michael Bart-lett, left wing Josh Sciba and left wing Tim Wallace -played for the U.S. Under-18 National Team. 
Minnesota State, which plays in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association (WCHA), will be the first non-conference game for the Irish since Princeton on Oct. 29. Notre Dame is 4-9-1 this season and 3-6-1 in the CCHA. 
After rotating goalies junior Dave Brown and freshman Jordan Pearce early in the season, Irish head coach 
see ROAD/page 14 

NO TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish declare first meet a success 
Team qualifies several members for Big East Championship in May 
By JASON GALVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's track and field teams got their first taste of competi­tion this season at the Blue/Gold Invitational Friday in the Loftus Sports Center. And despite a limited amount of athletes on competing oppo­sition, the Irish were finally able to put their off-season training to a much desired test. 
"I would say our expecta­tions were met," assistant coach John Millar said. "Everybody was pleased with how our athletes responded to their first competition, and we 
see BADGERS/page 18 


BASEBALL RECRUITING 

Irish ink ten recruits during signing period 
By KEN FOWLER Spans Writer 
Paul Mainieri knew he needed a top-flight recruiting class. 
With eight seniors on the 2005­06 squad and the possibility of multiple juniors being drafted after this season, the 11th-year Irish head coach had to reload Notre Dame's position and pitch­ing weapons with a strong incoming class. 
"It's a tremendous challenge for us this year because we have such an inordinately large senior class," Mainieri said. "We feel that there's a chance that we could lose two to three of our junior class also, so that's a big group to replace in one year.'' 
His coaching staff delivered, nabbing top prospects from California to Connecticut and Michigan to Maryland. 
"We feel like we have a great recruiting class," Mainieri said. "Our coaching staff, [especially] Terry Rooney, the recruiting coordinator, and Cliff Godwin, our new assistant coach, . . . the effort that they put in is where the credit is due for the success of this recruiting class." 
The Irish signed ten players to scholarships during the signing period, and Mainieri said Notre Dame's most important pickup was likely Ryan Smith. Smith, a 6-foot-2 catcher from Waldorf, Md., who will be thrust into the 
see SIGNINGS/page 18 

en 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NFL 
MLB 
NFL 
NCAA FOOTBALL
NCAA BASKETBALL 

1-u LLI 
Seahawks 42 
Roger Clemens' agent

Eagles 0 
The struggling Raiders 
A study by a Central

z A controversial new 
Sexual assault charges 

said Monday that if the 
against former La Salle 

likely will bench Kerry 
Florida professor showed 

:3 plan proposed a $50 
right-hander had to
million renovation of 
basketball player Dzaflo 

Collins this weekend in 
that this year's bowl-

Philadelphia turned
c:l 
choose immediately, he 
favor of the young 
eligible teams often fail to

the historic Cotton Bowl 
the ball over six times 
Larkai were dismissed 

a. 
!; cc 
would retire. 
in Dallas, Texas. 
Marques Tuiasosopo. 
meet NCAA academic

and Seattle capitalized 
Monday. 
standards.

on nearly every mistake. 
en 
page 15 
page 12
page 13 
page 12

page 13 
page 13 









