
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Experience takes backseat to election issues 
candidate Jarnns Lnito said. Academic Affairs Vijay is, 'What have you done with importane<~ of studnnt gov­By AMANDA MICHAELS 
"It is what JWopln have donn Hamanan, while oxperienced, it?' In that sense, our lnad­nrnmnnt nxporinncn, high­
A..,.i,tant News Editor with this nxpnrinnce that will admitted their history of ership experience far out­lighting instead the hnrwfits 
become a key issun." direct involv<1rnent in student elasses our opponents." of a froslwr pnrspedive. 
In a racP that boasts four Lnito and his running mate, government is not as long as Another mixed tieket is that "Wn'rn kind ol' young pups SPnators. two Snnatn eornrnit­junior Jordan Bongiovanni, thn others. However, they or SUB direetor or program­eomparnd to some of thP tPP rhairs, tlw Studnnt Union are both senators -for said their accomplishments ming Mark Healy and fresh­other tieknts," White said. Board's dirPdor of program­Singl'ried and Cavanaugh, will easily match up. man Bob Costa. Costa indi­"But we like to view dnmoc­ming and tlw eurrPnt admin­rnsp~lelivnly -and race the "Charlie Weis didn't get cated his success at bringing raey as a trip to the pound i S t I' ali 0 II'S Chi 0 (' P X(~ cUt iV 0 othnr l'ull student govern­hired just because he spent big-name bands to his for a nnw dog -pnopln like assistant, nxpnrinnen in stu­rnnnt tieknt ol' Chic!' some time in the NFL. lle Philadnlphia high school -puppies, and Old Yeller wont dnnt. govnrnmnnt is not thn lixneutive Assistant junior got hired because he has two as chronicled in tlw book erazy bnl'orn hn had to b1~ put trump rard it was made out Dave Baron and Badin sena­Super Bowl rings, because "Wonderland: A Year in the down." to lw in last yPar's stud(~nt tor and chair of the Senatn the fact that he's had success Life of an American High The freshman tieknt of Will body pn~sidnnt nlnrtion. Commitlee on Gender before makes us believe that School" -as a more valu­Marra and PPi(~r Harig cited 
Tlw ('ilndidatns arn instnad Hnlations, sophomore Lizzi he will have more in the able asset than an ol'l'ieial movies like "lndepnndenen pointing to rnsults as thn Shappnll. l'uture," Brede said. "Some of title. Day" and "Air Foree Orw" as dPriding !'actor. l'rPsidential candidate the other eandidates have The ticket of Alee White training enough to handle a 
"Many of llw tiekPts havn Craig Brnde and Chair of thn spent a long timP in studnnt and Sorin senator Erik P x p n riP n(: n . " p r n s i d n n t i a I Snnatn Committee on government, but the true test Powers brushed off the see TICKETS/page 6 
Rich tradition of faculty priests, nuns at ND, SMC -wanes 
Catholic universities rely on lay professors Clergy menzbers aid student learning
al, Linnny said. Tw(mty years ago, By MADDIE HANNA dories made up 4.9 percent of Nl'w~ Writer Notrn lhtmP.'s full-time instruc­By MADDIE HANNA tional faculty, while last year they 
News Writer 
Thn nurnhnr of priosl'i and nuns made up 2.4 pereent, according to tnarhing at Notre Damn and Saint data provided by the Office of Despite being ehallm1ged with Mary's IHL'i bmm slowly deernasing Insti tu tiona! Hesnarch. Tho extra duties and complex roles,in n~ennt years -a trend that University has gained 253 total 
mombers of thn clergy who 
applies to othnr Catholic universi­fm:ulty members during that time, teach at Notre Dame and Saint 
ties <L'i WPII. from 530 to 783. 
Mary's say their professions am This y(~ar, Notrn Damn has 19 The hiring of priests, however, rewarding.
Catholic dories serving as full­has not kept paeo with the hiring Father Patriek Gall'nny, priesttime instructional faculty, said of lay faeulty, Linney said. She and anthropolohry professor, said .Jean Ann Linnny, vim prnsidnnt speeulated among the 25 to 30 that while some pnople question and w.;sodate provost. faculty members hired per year, his dwien of two occupations,Ten ynars ago, that number was on avnrage, only one is a priest. 
from his perspective, it makes 2h, aeeording to the Offien of "I wouldn't say that it's any perfeet snnsn. 
Institutional Hnsnarr.h. more difficult now Ito attract "It's not unusual to be a prinstThis statistic dons not indude priest-professors! -it's just that teaehing-it's where I belong," derics who hold administrative there are so few," Linney said. 
Gal'fnny said, explaining that 
positions, sueh as Univnrsity The dwindling ranks of priest­sinee the time of andent monas­Prnsidnnt Fatlwr Edward Malloy professors ean be attributed to the teries. priesl'i havn always b11nn 
and University l'resident-Plect stable or declining number of 
teaehPrs. 
Fathnr .John .lnnkins, l.innny said. priests eompleting seminary, Bneausn of this tradition, hav­And while the pnn:nntage of dnri­Linnny said, as well as to the ing a double role as _prinst and eal compared to lay l'aeulty has addnd task of obtaining a Ph.D. 
tnaehnr, aceording to Gall'ney, is dropped signilkantly in the past While Linney could not speak 
"sonwthing very old, not odd. 
20 y<~ars that dons not aecount lor direetly about Notre Dame's The fact that there are so few thP owrall irH:rn<L'iP in hiring, she rneruit.ment practices, she said the 
priests teaching now -that's 
added. Indiana province of the lloly Cross odd." 
The drop in the number of dor­plaees emphasis on drawingnew While hn might be busier than 
ies ww.; miniseuln cornparnd to the expansion of Llw !iteulty in goner-see TREND/page 4 see PRIESTS/page 4 


College Park conflict continues 
Apartment residents battle Paramount Management over damage 
Hy MARY KATE MALONE Nt·w' Writer 
In latn Deeemlwr 2004, water pipes hurst at College Park apart­mnnt (:omph~x. unleashing water into tho night uniL'i dirnd.ly below and damaging the lwnws of 23 Notn~ I lanw st.udenl'i. Nearly one month latPr, a prolongPd and voeal eonf'liet has enwrged betw(~(Hl College Park manage­mnnt., thn student tenants and their fiunilies. 
"Initially I was hoping we eould work this out and mme to some sort of agremnent, but they haven't been agrnnable at all," said Kristin Boyd, a senior whose apartment was a!Teeted by the incident. "We'rn planning on pur­suing a lawsuit lilr myself and my l'(lommates." 
On .Jan. 2. Paramount Management property managP.r Patty Husswurm notified the afltletml residnnL'i of the damage done to their apartments. In a Jan. 12 article in The Observer, Husswurm said the damage's eause was the tenants' failure to turn ofT the heat. llowever, an inspeetion report by a toea! plumber showed otherwise. 
Mac Trench, a master plumber in the South Bend area, complet­ed an inspection for Boyd and her roommates. lie was hired by Boyd's father, a real estate profns­sional who had been growing inereasingly suspicious since Husswurm 's eall. 
"I Husswurm I was trying to bully the students into thinking it was thoir fault for this," said Boyd's 
see DAMAGE/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, January 28, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Buffalo's cold reality 
Ahh, Super Bowl season once again, a treasured time for sports fans. For me, however, this time of year brings a host of tortured memories. 
Let me clarify. I'm from Buffalo. B~sides wisecracks about the snow, 
Julie Bender 
Buffalo also has a history of athletic letdowns. News Wlre 
Where do I Editor begin? Maybe with the loss of our NBA franchise in 1978? Or perhaps with our failed bid for a Major League Baseball team? Or how about with former Buffalo Bill O.J. Simpson's murder trial? 
These events all wounded the Buffalo pride, but nothing hurt as badly as our four-year Super Bowl run in the early '90s. 
Though I was only six years old when the Bills faced the New York Giants in Super Bowl XXV, I remember it vividly. Buffalo had never been to a Super Bowl before, and football fever invaded our snowy city. 
I remember having "Bills Days" at school, which I took to an extreme with my Bills sweatshirt, my large helmet ear­rings and my "Zubaz" striped hat. Bills songs played on the radio, and young boys had the Bu!Talo logo buzzed into their hair. 
Everyone knows how the story ends, but only those from Bull'alo know the pain of watching Scott Norwood attempt tho47-yard lield goal with four seeonds to go and Buffalo down by one. The eeho ol'that infamous kiek still resounds in my !wad, as do those awful words, "Wide right." 
Stunned. Buffalo fans consoled each other with the sad chorus, "There's always next year." And, for once, they were right as we were blessed with limr Super Bowls in a row. The pain ol' losing those lour Super Bowls, though, took its toll on the fans. I still remember our last Super Bowl loss to the Dallas Cowboys. I felt disgusted as they showed a television close-up of Jimmy Johnson. As I turned around, I felt sadness watching my brother brush away tears as my dad hugged him. 
Though Buflalo football has never been the same, we got another chance at a national championship with the Sabres in 1999. My family sat on the couch, our eyes glued to the TV as game six of the Stanley Cup went into its third overtime against the Dallas Stars: We weren't giv­ing up. 
That is, we didn't give up until' the Stars' Brett Hull tapped in the game-win­ning goal. As the Stars poured onto the ice in celebration, the replay showed that Hull's skate had been in the crease. Despite a review of the goal, Dallas was declared the winner. To this day, Buffalo fans protest the game with "No Goal" bumper stickers on their cars. 
Buffalo has gotten the raw deal in sports too many times, but our fans are resilient. Maybe it's our naive hope and constant pride-or maybe it's that we've come to grips with the cold reality of losing. 
Either way, up in Buffalo, we're used to the cold. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to incorrect information provided by the Judicial Council, an article in the Jan. 27 issue of The Observer stated that on the student body presi­dential ticket of Peter Harig and Will Marra, Harig was running for president and Marra was running for vice president. Actually, Marra is running for president and Harig is running for vice president. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HAVE YOU EVER SOLD ANYTHING ON EBAY, AND IF SO, WHAT? 



Christina Gullo Katie Mackin Patrick Nolan Eddie Villa Gina Venturelli Sean Sweany 
freshman freshman freshman freshman freshman sophomore Lyons Lyons Stanford Alumni Lyons Keough Hall 
"I tried to sell "My roommate "No, I stick to "Yes, my "No, I have "No, I would, my roommate., tried to sell the gambling dignity ... not nothing anyone but I don't know 
,,

me. business., really. Just my 
Dogs  audition  for  
Broadway musical  
NEW  YORK  - Two  

dozen dogs living in New York animal shelters got their shot at stardom on Friday with an audition for parts in a new Broadway musical and the chance to live out their days on a farm. 
One hound mix and one collie won parts in the upcoming "Chitty Chitty Bang Bang," a stage musi­cal of the popular movie to open on Broadway's new Hilton Theater in April. 
As part of their prize, the dogs will live on a Connecticut farm owned 
TODAY 

...J 
ct 
(.) 
0 


guitar., 


Emergency medical tech­nicians had declared 29­year-old Larry D. Green dead almost two hours earlier, after he was hit by a ear. 
Medical examiner J.B. Perdue was called to the accident scene Monday but did not examine Green then. Later, he was docu­menting Green's injuries when he noticed the man was breathing. 
"I had to look twice myself just to make sure it was there, that's how sub­tle it was," Perdue said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
by the show's handler when the production clos­es. 
An 8-months-old white­and-caramel hound mix called Fred, and a 10­month-old, 70-pound collie with a long and pointy snout called Argyle won the audition -and with it a dressing room, groom­ing, and secure retirement to Bill Berloni's farm. 
Man incorrectly declared dead 
RALEIGH, N.C.-A med­ical examiner studying a body in a morgue was startled when the man took a shallow breath. 
HIGH 24
.... 
LOW 13 

16 3 


34 
28 

TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

37 25 
,

wants. how., 
IN BRIEF 

The film "I (Heart) Huckabees" will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. in the Browning Family Cinema. The event is sponsored by the department of lilm, television and theatre. 
The film "The Ineredibles" will be shown by the Student Union Board tonight from 8 
p.m. to 10 p.m. and Saturday from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. All three shows are in 101 DeBartolo Hall. Tickets eost $3. 
A performanee of the Freneh play "Les Fourberies de Scapin" by Moliere will be per­formed in the Philbin Studio theatre of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts at 7:30 
p.m. tonight and Saturday night. The event is sponsored by the department of romance languages and literatures. 
The Bridal Expo comes to the Joyce Center Saturday from 
9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. There will be fashion shows at 10 a.m., noon and 3 p.m. Tickets are $3 at the door and free from many loeal retailers. 
The men's tennis team will face off against North Carolina Saturday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Matches begin at 2 p.m. 
A Race and Religion sympo­sium will take place from 7 until 10 p.m. Saturday night in 
the LaFortune Ballroom.  The  
event  is  sponsored by  the  
Student Union Board.  

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

Friday, January 28, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
School of Architecture aw-ards $100,000 prize 
Special to The Observer 
l.ondon-ba..o;nd architnc.t <)uinlan Terry. prindpal of <)uinlan and Franris T1~rry Architects, has hnnn awardml tlw third annual llil'hard II. Drinhaus l'rizn for Classical Arehitndurn by the School of Ar«'hitneture. Tnrry will rnenivn a $1 00,000 cash prize and a hronz1~ and StOIW r<~plka or the < :lwrngie mon­


Terry

unwnt of l.ysikrates in Athens at a eeremo­ny March 19 at tlw Univnrsity !:lub ol'Chieago. 
Hkhard II. l>rinhaus, founder and chairman of l>rinhaus Capital Mnnagnment in Chicago, nndowml thn annual award to honor a major contributor in the fiold of traditional and dassieal ard1itncturn. 
T1~rry's work inr.ludns the rl'dnsign of thn~n state rooms in the ollien and home of the British primn ministnr at I 0 Downing Strnnt, Merehant Square at Colonial Williamsburg, and the Hichmond f{ivnrsidn Dnvelopment in Gn~at Britain. Othnr projects includn a snrins of villas in London's Hngnnlo; Park; Hkhmond I louse. a Cambridge ollkc build­ing; l'at1~rnostnr Squarn, an ollicc hlock in I .ondon; and Brnntwood Catlwdral in Essex, t·:ngland. 
Torry, educated at London's Architnetural Assoeiation, was a Homo Scholar in The British School in Home, which promotes nduration in architncturn. line art and history. lie received the l~uropean Prize from tho Philippe Hotthior Foundation in 19S4 and in 2002 hn was honornd with tho Arthur Hoss. Award from tho Institute of Classical Architeeture and Classical America. I lis library at Downing Collngn, Cambridge. was named the "Building of the Year" by the Hoyal lnstitutn of British Architects in 11J94, and a privatn rnsidencn he dnsignnd in Dorsnt, England, received the Best Modern Classical llouse award in 20m from the Georgian Group. 
The Driehaus Prize was estab­lished through Notre Dame's School of' Architecture because of its rnputation as a national leader in ineorporating the ideals of' tra­ditional and dassieal architneture into thn task of modern urban development. 
The award's selection eommit­tee ineluded: Driehaus; Tom Benby, principal at Hammond Beeby Hupert Aingo and former dean of' the Yale School of Architecture; Adele Chatfield­Taylor, president of the Amnrican Academy in Home; Leon Krier, inaugural recipient of the Driohaus Prize; Miehanl Lykoudis, dnan of' the Notre Damn School of Architndure; and David Watkin, an~hitnetural historian and fellow at Poterhouse College, Cambridge. 

Sarin addressed need for post office 
University founder's vision brought campus benefits through the years 
Special to The Observer 

Anyone familiar with Notre Dame's history knows thn University's founder, Father Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., was a fim~eful. even blunt, loader who lnt nothing stand in the way of his vision for the institution. flo was "one of' those people who assume that they should be in charge and p1·ocend accordingly," wrote Fath1~r James T. Connelly, C.S.C., nditor of "The Chronicles of Notre Dame duLac." 
Among the early projects on which Sorin took charge was the petition lilr a U.S. post ollicn on the Univnrsity's grounds -with him, of course, a.<> postma.o;ter. 
Beyond the convenienen faetor, Sorin knew there were many other benefits associated with having a fnderal facility on the campus, induding the opportuni­ty to generate revenue, the inclu­sion of Notre Dame on all ollidal government maps, and the assurance that roads leading to the campus would be better maintained. 
Given Notre Dame's proximity to South Bend, U.S. postal olli­cials said there was no need for a separate ollice on campus and rejected Sorin's rnqunst in early 1850. Aceustomed to getting his way, the French priest then turned to Henry Clay, the well known and respected U.S. Senator from Kentucky, for a.<>sis­tance. llow or why Sorin and Clay knew each othnr is a mys­tery, but the extra clout proved eJTective, and a post office was ol'l'ieially established at Notre Dame on .Jan. 6, 1S51. S(irin was appointed postma.o;tnr, a position he held until his dnath in 1S93. 

The post ollicn was a modest operation in its first year of exis­tence. There was no separate building and postal receipts amounted to just $36.02, according to an artiele published by tho Northern Indiana Philatelic Soeicty. Business 


gradually grow, how-The first post office on University
ever, and the 


University first post grounds was on Notre Dame Avenue. 
office building -a small, brick structure ­wa.<> eonstruetnd in 1856 on the east side of Notre Dame Avnnue near the curnmt site of tho Law School. 
The University's second post oflke building, at twice the size of the first, wa.o; eonstruetod of ynl­low brick on the same sitn in 1914. It was in servieo for 20 years, during which time more than 200,000 pounds of pub­lished material alone were proeessnd annually, a postal busi­ness equal to a city of 12,000 people. • 
The third postal facility again doublnd thn size of tim previous whnn it was opened Nov. 16, 1934, on a site just south of Walsh I tall adjacent to thn pres­ent-day Coleman-Morse building. Designed to blond with othnr eampus architoeturn, the build­ing now serves as home to tho Notre Damn chapter of the Knight-; of Columbus. 
From 11J67 to 2005, tlw University's postal snrviees wnrn operated on Notre Dame Avenue, a loeation morP. accessible to thn general publie. 
The new building on Holy Cross Drive is about tho samn size a.o; tho previous facility, but has numerous eonvenieneos, such as a 24-hour lobby, and is even more accessible to tho grnater mmmunity, including 12 parking spaces. 
The Notre Dame lit Festival is looking for performers of the written and spoken word for its ND UNPLUGGED Night. As port of this year's festival, scads of talent will be unleashed on Wed Feb 16 from 7pm -10 pm. 
Submit asample of your original work to the Student Government Office in Lafortune 201 before February 01. Individual segments can run from 10-15 min, but we're flexible I 
please visit sub.nd.edu to find out about the Notre Dame Literary Festival &other sub eventsI brought to you by the student union board. 


-----------------,------------.--------,-~ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 28, 2005 
and dean of faculty at Saint ory," he said. "That is very, very
Jenge. 

Mary's, said it was difficult to important."
Thesing said that while teach­


Trend
Priests 

determine if the number of sis­Gillis, however, focused on the
ing is very struetured and runs 
continued from page 1 ters teaching had decreased sig­more "concrete contact" aspect
continued from page 1 on a set schedule, being a rector 
nificantly, because the number of having priests as teachers. He
is about being flexible and 
seminarians from the student has been small for a while. said the greater the presence of
the average person, Gaffney responding immediately to the 
said his schedule is manageable. needs of the 290 men living in 
body. But the percentage of nuns Jesuits in the classroom, the 
Brother Donald Stabrowski, also serving as professors has greater the student's under­
"It takes some practice. Keenan. He describes the latter 
There's just a lot to do," Gaffney job he describes as "the most 
provost at the University of clearly declined during the standing of the Church. 
said. "You have to l'igure out multifaceted I've ever had." 
Portland, a Catholie university in College's existence, White said. White said the presence of sis­
Portland, Ore., said he also had He said thi'l is due to an inerease ters at Saint Mary's has an
how much you can manage and Commenting on priests living 
experieneed declining numbers in the number of lay faeulty at important role in the story of the 
do it as well as you can." in dorms, Thesing said, "There's 
Gaffney, who also serves as a an important reason why the 
of priest-professors. Saint Mary's as well as fewer campus. 
chaplain at University Village, University puts an emphasis on 
"There aren't enough of them women becoming nuns in gener­"It's important for all of us to 
said he is not limited in his work residential life and putting 
[priests]." Stabrowski said. "I al. live out the tradition and the mi<>­
to the religious side or the aca­priests in residential life." 
would take 10 more if there "It's a deerease in the numbers sion of the eollege as written and 
were." of sisters in the congregation designed by the Sisters of the
demic side. "fA rector's job is] to live with 
According to Stabrowski, there [Sisters of the Holy Cross]," Holy Cross," White said. 
"I came to the academic world the students, to be an example 
is a decided difference between White said. "The growth in the In response to the idea of
as a priest," he said. "My whole to the students, but also, just as 
professional life is woven into importantly, to give them an 
the number of priest-professors eongregation is in Africa, "publish versus parish," which 
being a priest. It's hard for me opportunity to investigate their 
available today and 30 years Bangladesh and Brazil -it's not eompares the importance of hav­
ago, when it wouldn't have been in the U.S." ing professors who publish work 
to imagine functioning inde­own spiritual life and relation­
unusual for half of the faeulty to Saint Mary's, which eurrently to professors who are members
pendently of that." ship with God," he said. 
Because of this, Gaffney's role, According to Thesing, the 
be derics. employs six sisters in administra­of the clergy, Linney said Notre 
Stabrowski said he felt recruit­tion -some of whom also teach Dame has a unique arrangement 
as a priest has a powerful nature of his religious occupa­
ing priest-professors was not -and three in faculty, does that allows more faeulty mem­
impact on his teaching. tion alone can impaet students 
"I can't help but think the way taking. his course. 
overly problematic and Portland recruit sisters, White said. bnrs more flexibility. 
I approach it !teaching] has "To stand up and teaeh a 
"gets its fair share." White said he does believe in Notre Dame has two categories 
everything to do with it [my reli­group of students business 
But beeause of nationwide some ways recruiting sisters has of faculty, Unney said. There are 
priest shortages, priests are in been more difficult in recent those in Teaching and Research,
gious background!," he said. ethics as a priest kind of says 
According to Gaffney, his reli­something different than a Jay 
high demand, Stabrowski said. years, primarily because "there who are "expected to generate 
"Whenever there is an avail­are fewer sisters going into and publish new knowledge,"
gious background also prevents professor," Thesing said, refer­
able priest, we eertainly pay teaching and academic life, and and those in Spndal Professional, 
him from becoming a "one­ring to a societal perception of 
dimensional scholar" and leads business as "dirty." 
dose attention," he said. because a number of colleges who are "valued because of their 
Portland, which, along with and institutions want these sis­unique experience," she said. 
to him being more involved in Most importantly, Thesing 
Notre Dame belongs to the Order ters." Special Professional faculty,
students' lives and the commu­said, he hoped students could 
of the Holy Cross, has 20 priests All of the officials agreed upon according to Linney, are "stellar
nity than an ordinary professor take a lesson from his involve­
and brothers who work as pro­the importance of having clerics instructors who like to devote
might ment in both religion and busi­
"There are many ways to be ness. 

fessors or in administration, teach at their respective schools. more time teaching than to pub­
Stabrowski said. lie did not "There's clearly a very strong lishing." Therefore, the expecta­
involved in teaching at the "You can bring your 
know the exact numbnr of sisters eommitment to having a faculty tions for publication are differ-
University. One is to involve Christianity, faith, beliefs into 
employed, but said there were at that practiees and understands ent. .
yourself in students, their inter­what it is that you do," he said. 
least seven in regular positions. the Catholic mission of this uni­Despite this distinction, Linney 
ests and life stories -but for a "No matter what career choices 
Chester Gillis, chair of versity," Unney said. maintained Notre Dame exped.s
priest, that's part of our life's students make here, what's 
Georgetown University's theology The campus also benefits from the same level of quality from all
work," Gaffney said. important to realize is they don't 
department, also stressed the the unique approach priests its professors. There are both
''I'm always trying to juggle have to compromise their reli­
difficulties in obtaining priest­bring to the dassroom, she said. priest and lay professors in both
my responsibilities as priest and gious beliefs in order to pursue 
professors. 'Their seminary training pro­categories of faculty, she added,
professor," diocesan priest and it... 

"Jesuits and priests, especially vides them with a diflerent per­meaning priests are not held to
theology professor Father Sister Jean Kiene, nun and 
with scholarly potentials, are at a spective," she said. "For a priest different standards than lay pro­
Michael Driscoll said. English professor at Saint 
premium in recent years," Gillis who studied history, their per­fessors.
Driscoll said his religious Mary's College, said students 
said. spective on history is going to be "Notre Dame is not about com­
background overlaps with being approach her differently than 
Georgetown identifies candi­different [than a lay professor's]." promising its standards," she
a professor in liturgical studies, they would a lay professor. 
dates in graduatp, sehool every Stabrowski said priest-profes­said, "but we reeognize that peo­
and that teaching is a part of his "It helps me in terms of day­
responsibility and role as a to-day teaching," she said. 
year in attempts to recruit new sors are· "crucial" in perpetuat­ple have difl'erent ways of con­
priests, with an emphasis on ing the image of the Holy Cross tributing overall to excellence."
priest. "They bring problems, [or] come 
"Otherwise, you become an to talk." 

Jesuits since Georgetown is a university. 
ivory tower liturgist," Driscoll Kiene said not only do stu­
Jesuit university, Gillis said. "They provide continuity to an Contact Maddie Hanna at 
Patrick White, vice president institution, the history, the mem-mhannal@nd.edu
said. dents feel comfortable 
Although Driscoll must bal­ance the two different.occupa­tions of teaching class and lead­ing masses, he sees no difficulty or contradiction in his work. 
"Everybody has to juggle [his] own life, figure out how to spend [his] time," he said. 
Father Mark Thesing, Keenan rector and business ethics instructor, said teaehing a class while managing issues in Keenan is a perpetual chal­approaching her, but they also trust her advice regarding cer­tain issues more deeply than they would someone without a religious background. 

"Sometimes students come in who want to have an abortion, and we talk through that," she said. "I am aware of their lives, and they're aware of mine." 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

The University of Notre Dame 



INNSBRUCK PROGRAM 
Is accepting applications for the 2005-2006 Acaden1ic Year 
Extended application deadline: February 1, 2005

Applications Available www/nd.edu/--intlstud 
Questions?-Weber.15@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, January 28, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. begins security operation 
BA<;IIIL\Il -U.S. troops paeked extra uniforms and ammunition before moving out of tlwir main base Thursday to take up positions around Baghdad. part of a massivn sncurily opnration t.o protnet votnrs during wnnknnd nlnrtions that insurgents havn vownd to disrupt. 
Iraqi polil~n and soldiors will play t.hn mon\ visihl!1 rol«\, manning dwckpoints and sneur­ing t.hP polls-many of which havo alrnady lwPn bomhnd and rockntnd by insurgents ahPad of Sunday's votn. 
Anwriran troops will bn around, norwlhn­IPss -harking up thP Iraqis in tho !Wnnl of major violPrwP tlw Iraqis can't handle, U.S. and Iraqi !'ommandnrs said. 
ThP U.S. prnsPJH~P could make American troops Pasinr targets, and it also has raisod mru·orns llw UnilPd Stales might bn snnn as orclwst.rat.ing tlw Plnctions. 
Insurgents launch attacks 
BACIIIlAil-Insurgents stopped up attacks Thursday against polling enntnrs across Iraq, killing at least a dozen pno­piP, including a U.S. Marine, in Llw rebel campaign to frighten Iraqis away from participating in this w«wkend's elnetion. 
As part of an intonsifying eampaign of intimidation, an al-<)aida afTiliatn lnd by .Jordanian terror mastermind Abu Musab ai-Zarqawi postPd a vid!HJLapn on tho lntPrrwt showing tlw murder of a candi­dat.n from tlw party of interim Primo Minislnr Ayad Allawi. 
The tapo included a warning to Allawi personally: "You traitor, wait for thn angnl of dPat.h." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Rice plans trip to Middle East 
WASIIIN<;TON -Condolnezza Bien work!1d tlw phones on hnr first day on thn job as Anwrica's top diplomat Thursday, rnaehing out to European allies and part­ners in tlw war on terrorism and echoing l'rnsidnnt Bush's inaugural charge to pro­motn lilwrty across the globe. 
"Tho president has set forth a really hold agn11da for Anwrican foreign policy," Hieo said in a brinf' addrnss to State l>npartnwnt mnployeos who applaudnd as slw ontorod tho lobby. "I can't think of a lwttor !~all than to say that Am!1rir.a will stand for f'ro!Hiorn and l'or liberty. that Anwrira will stand with those who want tlwir aspirations mnt for liberty and f'nH1­dorn." 
Blake's dauf,!hter testifies 
LOS AN<;t·:LI·:S-HoT>nrt Blakn's first wifb and thP adult daughtm· of' his slain sneond wife took tho witnoss stand at tlw actor's murdor trial Thursday, tnstilying about Blakn's troublod rola­tionship with Bonny I ,no Baklny. 
Bakley's daughtnr, I lolly (;awron, 24, told tho jury that whiln living in Arkansas with Baklny, (;awron sornntimns answered the phone and !ward lllakn "ydling, eursing obsennities" when lw thought lw W!l'> talking to Bakley. 
Bakloy, 44, wa.'> shot to doath in May 200 I !l'i slw waitnd in a car fi>r Blake oul'>ido a mstau­rant. Blako said lw roturnnd briefly to tho rPstaurant to rPtriPvn a gun before linding Bakl11y mortally woundPd. 
LOCAL NEWS 
More flu vaccine available 
INDIANAPOLIS -Flu shots in Indiana aro now availablo to anyone who wants a vaccina­tion, rngardloss ol' ag11 or hnalth conditions, as long as supplins last, aftnr fnderal public hnalth oflidals today gave the OK for eliminat­ing restrictions and statn and county public hnalt.h agPndns follownd tho rncomrnondation within hours. 
Visiting Nursn Snrvkn, generally tho largnst sourrn of flu shots in central Indiana, sched­uled night lirst-como, lirst-servnd elinies for tlw gmwral public boginning Feb. 6. 
Leaders remember victims 
Ceremony in Poland honors victims and survivors of Auschwitz death camp 
Associated Press 
BHZEZINKA, Poland ­As candles llickernd in tho snowy, winter gloom, world leadnrs and Auschwitz sur­vivors Thursday rernem­bnred victims of the Ilolocaust on the 60th annivorsary of tho libera­tion of thn Nazi death eamp. 
The cnremony, whieh oponml with the recordnd rurnbl!~ of an approaching train, was held on the spot whnrn new arrivals were brought in by rail to the ~ast car~p <~nd put thro~rgh 
snlnetwn -meanrng thosn few who were dnnmnd able to work worn soparatnd from the rest who were taken immediate­ly to the gas chambers. 
"It seems if you listen hard enough, you can still Jwar the outcry of horror of the murdered people," Israeli President Moshe Katsav said. "When I walk thn ground of the concen­tration camps, I fear that I am walking on the ashes of the vietims." 

Joining in the commemo­ration were Vice President l>iek Cheney, and presidents Alnksandor Kwasniewski of Poland, Vladimir Putin of Hussia, and Jacques Chirae of France. German President llorst Koehler sat on the platform without speaking in recognition of he recalled, "I never imag­"Today we shall not only he said. his country's responsibility ined I would outlive llitler remembm· the past but also Putin won long applausn for the I Ioloeaust, in which or survive World War II." be aware of all the thrnats when he aeknowlndgnd that 6 million Jews died during Soviet troops liberated of the modern world," he anti-Semitism and xnnopho­World War II. Auschwitz and the neigh­said. "Terrorism is among bia had surfaeml in Hussia, 
Barbed wire and brick boring camp at Birkenau, them, and it is no less dan­tackling an issun that tho barraeks stretched as far as or Brzezi nka in Polish, on gerous and cunning than Kremlin had long failed to the eye could see. The Jan. 27, 1945. Some 1.5 fascism." confront dirndly. Put.in said ruined crematoriums million people, most of The leaders plaeed can­many in the world should loomed nearby, all eovernd them Jews, had died at the dins, in blun glass holders, bn ashamed of nnw rnani­with a layer of fresh snow. two camps from gassing, at a memorial as they lef't. f'estations of anti-Semitism 
Girl Scouts brought blan­starvation, exhaustion, Nnw Ukrainian President six decades after llw ddnat kets to elderly survivors sit­beatings and disease. Viktor Yushehenko made of fascism. ting in tho freezing cold. Other victims included the sign of' thn cross af'ter "Even in our eountry. in 
"For a former inmate of Soviet prisoners of war, gently sntling his down. Hussia, whieh did morn Auschwitz, it is an unimag­Poles, Gypsies, homosexuals Earlier in Krakow, than any to 1~ornbat fascism inable and overwhelming and political opponents or Chnrwy notnd that the ... we sonwtimns unf'ortu­nmotion to be able to speak tlw Nazis. llolocaust did not happnn in nal«1ly sen manifi1stations ol' in this cemetery without "We think of the suffering some far-off place but "in this pmbhnn and I, too, am graves, the largest one in of' our brothers. of the spe­the !wart of' tlw civiliz11d ashamed of' that." l'utin the history of Europe," said cial ties that link us, Poles, world." said. Wladyslaw Bartoszewski, a with the Jewish nation," "Thn story of the camps Survivor Franeisznk survivor who later became Kwasniewski said. shows that fWil is real and Joznfiak, HO, said nll'orts to Poland's l'ornign minister. Putin compared the Nazis must bn called by its name oducatn new gonnrations 
Whon he arrivnd in 1940, with the terrorists or today. and must bo confrontNI," about tlw llolo!~aust should 


Train wreck suspect faces charges 
Associated Press 
GLENDALE, Calif. -Thn suicidal man who authorities say caused the chain-reaction train derailment that killed 11 people has been charged with multiple counts of murder and could face the death penalty, the district attorney said Thursday. 
Juan Manuel Alvarez, 25, lef't his sport utility vehicle on a railroad traek Wednesday after changing his mind about committing suicide, authorities said. He was held with­out bail at a hospital's jail ward after apparently slitting his own wrists and stabbing himself in the 
chest. 

In addition to the 11 dead, nearly 200 people were injured. The last person reported missing was accounted-for Thursday and fire­lighters ended recovery efforts. All but one of the dead had been iden­tified. 
Los Angeles County District Attorney Steve Cooley said prosecu­tors filed charges late Wednesday for 10 counts of murder with "spe­cial circumstances" of committing murder through a train derailment. Cooley stressed however that the ease were still being evaulated. Under state law, special circum­stances allegations could makn a 
defendant eligible ftlr the dnath penalty. 
Cooley said the complaint would be amended to add anothM eount to refer to the 11th victim, found in the wreekage late Wednnsday night. And he said tho def'ondant's suicidal intent didn't make any dif­ference to him. 
"lie's not going to nngagn rny sympathy because he was dnspon­dent. llis despondency doesn't move me," the district attomny told The Associated Press. 
Arraignment was initially plamwd for Thursday aftnrnoon hut was put ofT until Friday beeausn of Alvarnz's medical condition. 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, January 28, 2005 
Da01age 
continued from page I 
father, Gregg. "Once she found out we had a professional plumber come it to look at everything, she stopped threat­ening." 
Russwurm did not respond to repeated requests from The Obs1~rver for comment for this article. 
According to Trench, the cause of the damage was not in fact that the heat was turned ofT (though the tenants claim it was indeed left on), but rather negligence on the part of man­agement to correct a flaw in the piping system that caused a similar situation several years ago. 
In the inspection report given to Gregg Boyd, Trench wrote due torepair work that had already been performed, he "could not see any damaged piping." Instead, "the pipes were in an open chase that was opnn to the attic ... these pipes will freeze again if not correct­ed properly," Trench noted. "Insulation will not solve the problem." 
"Trench told us, 'I was the plumber that worked on this problem before, and I told them how to fix it, and they wouldn't pay for it,"' Gregg Boyd said. "They just paid for the patch. Heat wouldn't have affected it. It wasn't the tenants' fault." 
The inspection was complet­ed on Jan. 6, he said. 
Since Jan. 12 further damage has been discovered in the apartments, and communica­tion with Paramount has become increasingly difficult, Kristin Boyd said. 
"Yesterday I found mold growing in our closet," she said. "But management has been telling us for weeks there is no mold and yet won't give us back the mold test we requested." 
Her roommate, senior Elizabeth Cain, said Russwurm's absence from her office the past week has made obtaining the results of the mold test nearly impossible. 
"The company [who per­formed the mold test] said that the test was completed but that they were not allowed to dis­close the results," Cain said. "So I called Paramount. But they said Patty was out of town." 
In the Jan. 12 Observer arti­cle, Husswurm said huge eiTorts were put forth to ensure the apartments returned to a liv­able condition. 

"It has been very difficult to try to get students back in to their apartments," Russwurm said. "We have had contractors, cleaning crews, disaster relief agencies, all working 24n to repair the damage." 
But now the tenants are seek­ing an explanation for why their furniture, now covered in dry wall, was not removed from the apartments before the repairs were made. 
Local general contractor Philip Mosby, Jr., who was hired to repair the drywall in the apru1ments, defended Paramount, commending the company's professionalism and practicali­ty. 
"I did suggest that it would be a good idea to move the furni­ture out before I began work­ing, but they [management] told me that they couldn't move the furniture because the students had to be there to give them the okay," Mosby said. 
Gregg Boyd and his daughter, however, maintain a different story. 
In a document Gregg Boyd compiled of the problems he has encounter.ed with Paramount, he wrote, "Paramount refused to pay the fees required to move out the furnishings of the tenants. Thus they were piled up in the mid­dle of the rooms, left wet, get­ting mold." 
Amid all the controversy, other students living in the damaged apartments are seek­ing a peaceful reconciliation. 
"I would just like to move on and just make sure everything is covered," said Kristin Boyd's neighbor, senior Conner O'Keefe. "But as far as my anger is toward Paramount, I'm still disappointed in the way they handled it." 
For the Boyds, filing a lawsuit is the next step. 
"The suit would be against all the parties that have been involved," Gregg Boyd said. "They have been persecuting these students that have been devastated by something that did not need to happen." 
Russwurm told The Observer for the Jan. 12 article that Paramount did not intend to file lawsuits against the student tenants. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

Tickets 
continued from page I 

presidency. They also claimed to be free of the "greed, vice and corruption" they said plagued student government. 
The fact that half of the candidates have worked side by side on some of this year's hot-button issues has led to similar platforms ­focusing on points like put­ting a student on the Board of Trustees, securing a con­cert endowment and finding a new process for ticket dis­tribution -but they all indi­cated the solutions they offer are what set each ticket apart. 
"We all respect each other, but at the same time have different ways to approach­ing issues, which is why many of us are running," Leito said. 
As the Notre Dame student body proved last year after electing Adam Istvan and Karla Bell, relative newcom­ers to the student govern­ment scene, experience is not the ultimate measuring stick. The candidates agreed, calling a working knowledge of the student government useful in accom­plishing goals, but indicated the need for a deeper moti­vation. 
"Experience is no doubt a benefit in terms of knowing the system, relating to administrators and trustees, and mobilizing the student body. However, experience will only take a president and vice president so far," Baron said. "It takes inge­nuity and resourcefulness to make real changes happen." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
ITALY 
Country begins 2006 Oly111pic preparation 
Associated Press 
TURIN -Figure skaters glide across the freshly laid ice at the renovated Palavela arena. Short-track speedskat­ing is a big hit with the locals. Ski and bobsled races come oll' without a hitch in the sur­rounding Alps. 
One year before the 2006 Winter Olympics, Turin and the Piedmont region of northwest­ern Italy are getting a taste of the real thing. 
So far, so good. 
Despite continuing budget, sponsorship and housing prob­lems, a series of successful test event<> has eased concerns over the statH of preparations for the Feb. 10-26, 2006, showcase­the first Winter Games in Italy since Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956. 
"I don't want any triumphal­ism -I'm aware that we still have a lot of work to do," organizing committee chief Valentino Castellani said. "But we don't have delays or emer­gencies." 
A few months ago, Turin's preparations were being com­pared to Athens' frenzied, last­minute race to get ready for the 2004 Summer Olympics. Now there's a sense of relative calm among local organizers and International Olympic Committee officials. 
"I don't think there is any possible comparison between Athens and Turin," said Gilbert Felli, the IOC's executive direc­tor for the Olympic Games. "The venue for figure skating is ready. The venues for cross­country, ski jumping and all the Alpine skiing are ready, so there is nothing to compare with Athens. They are on track." 
Felli spoke after attending this week's opening of the European Figure Skating Championships at the 8,250­seat Palavela, featuring an arching cement roof resem­bling a billowing sail. 
Workers were still painting and tinkering with wires days before the event, but completed the job just in time. 
The PalaveJa also hosted the European short-track speed­skating championships this month, drawing full crowds for a sport with little following in Italy. 
Cross-country ski races took place Jan. 22-23 in Pragelato; bobsled and skeleton events were held Jan. 20-23 and luge events are scheduled for Feb. 5-6 in Cesana-Pariol. In December, the World Cup ski circuit made its annual stop in Sestriere, a resort founded by Fiat's Agnelli family that will be the center for Alpine events during the Olympics. 
Ice sports will be in down­town Turin and snow events in Sestriere and surrounding vil­lages, about 62 miles from the city. There will be three Olympic villages -one in Turin for 2,500 athletes and coaches and two more in the mountains for an equal number of com­petitors. Housing problems remain in the Alpine zone for fans, media and others. 

There's a reason we're the #1 MCAT.course. 
Why do more students choose Kaplan MCAT than all other prep courses combined? Is it our expert teachers? Convenient class schedules? Comprehensive review materials and up-to-date practice MCATs? Could it be our online MCAT topical tests available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week? 
Answer: All of the above. 
Classes are starting now for the April exam. Call today to enroll! 
1-800-KAP·TEST


t:l;jdrllt 

kaptest.comjmcat 
Test Prep and Admissions 

•MCAT • a regtaterud lnHktm11111 or Ihe AG&oclatlon of the~ Medical CollefH 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
hiday, January 28, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
10,002.33 -74.85

}ones • 
Up: Some: Dow1J: Composite Volume: 1,081 163 • 1,320,088.960 
AMEX I, 273.40 ~3.56 NASDAQ I,920.53 -4.64 NYSE 6,556.53 -53.18 S&PSOO 1,113.65 -8.19 NIKK£l(Tol<yo) 11,195.99 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,634.80 -13.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.50 +0.71 20.99 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -0.27 -0.01 3.74 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.57 -0.30 18.86 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 0.00 0.00 28.03 YAHOO INC (YHOO) +0.73 +0.73 34.96 
Ti'easurles 

30-YEAR BOND -0.18 -0.09 48.71 10-YEAR NOTE -0.59 -0.24 40.78 5-YEAR NOTE -1.04 -0.35 33.19 3-MONTH BILL +2.06 +0.34 16.87 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.96 53.14 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -2.00 414.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.1 0 94.30 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 09.7700 EURO 0.8102 POUND 0.5577 CANADIAN$ 1.2564 
IN BRIEF 
Ford recalls trucks and SUVs 
1>1-:.t\HBOHN. Mid1.-Ford Motor Co. is reeall­ing nearly SOO,OOO piekups and sport utility vnhidns berausn tlw rruisn control switrh eould short rireuit and eause a lire under the hood, the nation's sPeond biggest automaker said Thursday. 
Tlw rneall eovers approximately 792,000 Ford 1'-1 50 pickups, l;onl 1\xpnditions and Lineoln Navigators from the 2000 model ynar. Also indudml arn 200 I F-Series Supercn1w trueks madn at the samn tinw. 
l'ord will notify ownnrs of the recall in February. and dnalnrs will deactivate the eruise control switeh for l'n1n. Once the company has m10ugh rnplaennwnt switehes, it will send anotlwr lett11r notifying owners that they ean gf'l tlwir switches rnplarnd. 
"We n1rognize this may bn an ineonvnninnr.n, hut wn believe this prnvnntive action is in the hPst intnmst of our customers' safety," the com­pany said. 
Tlw National llighway Traffic Safety Administration opPnnd an investigation into the dnfnd in November al'tnr rneniving :~l1 rnports of lirns. /\II of the incidents occurred when the V11hide was parked and the ignition was turned oil'. No inj urins wnn1 reportml. 
British journal retracts report 
INI >1/\N/\POLIS-Tho British Medkal Journal has rntractml a rnport that said 1\li Lilly and Co. docurnnnts suggnsting n link bntwnnn Prozae and a lwightnned risk of suidde attmnpts and violmH~Il had gorw missing for years. 
Thn journal isstwd an apology and eorrnetion that appf1arnd Thursday on tlw journal's Wnb site. 
"Tiw BM.J accepts that l.:li Lilly actnd properly in rplation to Llw disdosurn of these documnnts in Llwsn claims," the journal said. "Thn BM.I is happy to snt liHl n•mrrf straight and to apolo­gizP to f<:li Lilly for this statnnHmt, whirh we now rntract, hut whil'h wn published in good faith." 
Tlw BMJ last month said it had given U.S. rng­ulators intnrnal company doeunwnts it had I'IH~oiwd from an anonymous soun~o indicating that the drug maker was awarn in the IIJSOs that the anti-dPpressant could have potnntially troubling side-Pil'ects. 

Bank agrees to $16 million fine 


Riggs Bank pleads guilty to charges of failing to report suspicious transactions 
Associated Press 
Wi\SIIINGTON-Higgs Bank pleaded guilty Thursday to failing to report suspieious transac­tions in the accounts of for­eigners, induding two dic­tators, and agreed to a $16 million proposed line. 
It would be the largest crimi11al penalty ever imposed on a bank of Higgs' size, according to prosecu­tors, and eomes atop a meord $25 million eivil line levied on the bank by a Treasury Department agency last May. 
The plea agreement still needs the approval of U.S. Distriet Judge Hicardo Urbina, who expressed skepticism about the penal­ty's adf1quacy at a !waring Thursday. 
The plna eould throw into question Higgs' deal. annoLIIleed in July, lli be aequired for $779. million by regional bank PNC Financial Serviens Group of Pittsburgh. 
Higgs, an old-line Washington bank that drew prestige from its nnar­nxdusivn franchise on busi­ness with the capital's diplomatie community. is a midsize institution with some $6.4 billion in assets. 

The Justice Department has been investigating the bank executives' handling tnrm and systemic. miscon­against humanity. Higgs llulkownr rnspondod that of some foreigners' duct was more than simply managers also helped the profit the bank realized aeeounts, including those blind neglect; it was a crim­Obiang set up an offshore from thn qunstionable held by Saudi diplomats in inal breach of the banking shell corporation that took <u~counts was ··signifieantly Washington, former Chilean laws that proteet our finan­in deposits of morn than lnss" than that amount, but dictator Augusto Pinochnt, cial system from exploita­$11 million over a two-year did not quantifY it. and officials of Teodoro tion by terrorists, narcotics period of questionable The dvil linn imposed in Obiang's regimn in dealers and other crimi­transactions, the prosocu­May by tho Off'ieo of tho Equatorial Guinea. nals." tors said. Comptmllnr of tho CurrPJH~Y 
"Higgs aggressively culti­Earlier, at the hearing "The bank deeply rngrnts was for aiiPged violations of vated the Pinochet and before Urbina, prosecutors the eonduct and has coop­laws to pnwnnt money Equatorial Guinea detailed a lengthy list of erated fully with tho inves­laundnring in Higgs's han­accounts, and profited from deceptions thny said were tigation," Mark llulkownr, dling of millions of dollars their business," Kenneth used by Higgs managers to an attorney reprnsnnting in the aeeounts eontrolled Wainstcin, the U.S. attorney eoneeal Pinochet's owner­the bank, told the judge. by Saudi diplomats and for the Distriet of Columbia, ship of the assnts, inducting If Urbina rejer.ts thn linn, Equatorial (;uinna ollidals. said at a news eonference. setting up dummy offshore IUggs and the prosecutors The bank, whi<:h has sinen 
"Dnspite numerous warn­eompanies and altering his may have to rcnngotiatn it sold its diplomatic. and ings from regulators, Higgs name on some of his or take the case to trial. international businesses, eourted customers who aeeounts. This oceurred at The judge set a March 29 did not admit to or deny were a high risk for money a time when prosecutors in sentencing hearing. wrongdoing in the dvil laundering and hnlped several countries were try­Urbina said he wondnrnd casn. them shield their linaneial ing to freeze Pinoehet's whether $16 million repre­The phm agrn11111ent dons transaetions from scrutiny," assets and bring him to jus­sented "just a business not eovnr tlw Saudi-held Wainstein said. "This long-tice for alleged crimes expense" for Higgs. accounts. 

Midway to become ATA's focus 
Associated Press 
INI>Ii\Ni\POLJS-1\T/\ Airlines lne. said fierce competition from rival carriers forced it to abandon plans to rebuild its struggling busi­ness at its hometown hub and instead slash morn than 90 pnreent of its daily flights out of Indianapolis. 
Chicago's Midway International Airport will become thn airline's focus, an abrupt reversal from 1\T/\'s earlier plans to sell off most of its Midway operations as part of its Chaptnr 11 bankruptcy rnorgani­zation. 
Tho leader of i\Ti\'s flight atten­dants union said Thursday the news 

that tho airline would nnd 44 of its daily flights out of Indianapolis by April 10 left her more concerned about the company's future now than when it filed for bankruptcy last fall. 
"Lot's face it, this is just a killer industry right now, and everybody's trying to keep above water," said .lacki Pritchett, an AT/\ employee who is president of the Association of Flight Attendants' 1\T/\ branch. 
High fuel costs and fierce fare eompetition have hurt the airline industry, which already had been battered by a post-Sept. 11, 2001, reduetion in business. 
Officials with the Air Line Pilots Association loeal representing more than 900 1\T/\ flight anw membPrs met with company executives Thursday. Both unions have accept­ed millions of dollars in pay euts over the past snvnral months to hnlp keep 1\T/\ flying. 
1\T/\ spokeswoman Hox anne Butler said the airline does not have projections of how many of its (J,IJOO workers would lose their jobs under the cutback of flights. 
1\T/\ oflkials also said thn airline would discontinue in-statn routes that startnd only this month. That service to Fort Wayne, Evansville and South Bend will nnd March 2H. Flights between Gary and Indianapolis slated to start next Tuesday were eancelPd. 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Friday, January 28, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 

Charity is not a competition 
In the tragic and confusing aftermath of the Dec. 26 remarkably collaborative, but also unmistakably Catholic. tsunami, some of the world's leaders lost sight of that fact. University President Father Edward Malloy immediately Donating to the South Asian and African victims, which offered his prayers, and urged others at "Our Lady's started as a noble and empathetic act, took on the ugly University" to "be worthy vessels of !God's) grace, helping impression of a bidding war. to disperse darkness for the victims of this tragedy and for 
But Notre Dame's leaders knew better. Their efforts were our whole world." The first Basilica Mass was specifically communal from the beginning. offered up for the dead and suffering, and for First, Campus Ministry announced that all OJhe those aiding them. Furthermore, it was
userver
money from collections taken at the two decided that all donations collected through Basilica Masses and all residence hall Masses Notre Dame would flow to Catholic Relief the week students returned from winter Services, reflecting the University's commit­

Editorial
break -bringing the campus community to full size and strength -would go towards relief efforts. Then other student and administrative leaders joined in, as representatives from Student Government, International Student Services and Activities, the Athletic Department and the Office of Student Affairs chose to work together to organize various collections and fundraisers, from basketball games to benefit dinners. In recognizing that they could do more together than apart, the Tsunami Relief Drive's planners acted with savvy, gen­erosity and perspective. 
Notre Dame's response to the tragedy was not only ment to the Church's charitable mission. 
In all, an impressive $173,000 was collected from the Notre Dame community during the past two weeks­enough to make a difference in rebuilding hundreds of livelihoods. 
A similar amount of money could very well have come from individual donations. Any money is all the same to the victims. But the fact that Notre Dame's relief efforts were staked on strong undercurrents of cooperation and Catholicism-not competition -makes the University an admirable public example. 
And the best part is that it wasn't trying to be. 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
sroc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 f>hoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include comact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be din!ctfd to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i' published Monday through FridJy except during eum and vac.ation periods. Asub~>eription to The Observer is $100 tOr one .1cadcmic yeu; $$') fOr one semeMer. 
The Observer is published ;u: POSTMASTER 
014 South Dining Hall Send ad.dr-m c.orrccdons to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46)56..0779 The Observer 
Ptriodic:al postage pdid .1r Notte Dllmc P.O. Box: 779 
and additionii.lmailtnp. otliw. 024 South Dining H~JI 
Notre Dame. IN 46556..0779 
The Oh!.c:tvt:t is a memher uf the fusndatd Pres:.. All ~produaion rights are rcsc:rved. 


Combating 'senioritis' 
For the soon-to-be graduating class of 2005, January brings the beginning of the end of what is commonly referred to as "the Notre Dame experi­ence." Most seniors, this writer includ­ed, morph into an unusual mode of exis­Gary Caruso tence during their final semesters on Capitol campus. It is a condi­Comments tion uniformly described as "senioritis," but one with many symptoms, some unique only to certain individuals. 
The Board of Trustees eventually cures senioritis each spring by confer­ring degrees, although peculiar symp­toms may linger long after some matriculated students physically depart campus. To adequately understand the atmosphere that has just presently begun but climaxes in May, begin with the choice of commencement speaker and work backwards through time. 
Graduating classes take on the char­acter of their commencement speakers and honorary degree recipients. Each class strives for the most globally pres­tigious marquee of speakers, often­times hoping for a president on the dais, and certainly seeking anyone affiliated with Notre Dame. This year, as the turmoil of death headlines the Iraqi war and a tsunami in the Far East, the atmosphere begs for a speak­er who epitomizes the qualities of humility and sacrifice. The logical choice is Notre Dame Professor Emeritus Gil Loescher, the world's fore­most authority on refugees, displaced persons and forced migration due to famine and war. In 2003, Loescher was the sole survivor of the Baghdad blast that leveled the United Nations head­quarters. 
As a result of his ordeal, Professor Loescher is a double amputee. His is a remarkable story of survival that was featured in last spring's Notre Dame Alumni Magazine. The University also responded quite generously to assist with the professor's staggering medical bills. The commencement selection committee would do well to summon Loescher to convey his personal strug­gles, revelations, faith and revised view of life now that he has felt the breath of God while trapped in a building's rub­ble. Notre Dame's Loescher is the living embodiment of the character of every fallen veteran and civilian in the bloody Iraqi conflict. His insight would leave no eye dry in the Convocation Center. 
Wet eyes and aching hearts are obvi­ous symptoms of senioritis. Sometimes eyes water on our day of departure, but many times hearts swell when each of us, regardless of whether or not we asked, gain a further sense of commu­nity for having attended Notre Dame. Ultimately, time catches up with every senior who is thrust into the final semester. They are forced to think of losing their friends, moving their sur­roundings and changing their lifestyles. Ready or not, senioritis sets into their consciousness. 
The best way to combat early January senioritis is to slow time by savoring each moment of the final semester at Notre Dame. I can still vividly remember my birthday party in February, interhall sports, broadcast­ing at the campus radio station, attend­ing a spring dance, Bookstore Basketball, playing pranks on my fel­low Domers and several other warm memories of my second semester of senior year. I forced time to crawl for nearly four months. 
By semester's end, I moved closer toward my faith and came to better know some of my closest classmates whom I thought I knew for three and a half years prior. Appreciating my sur­roundings helped cleanse me of many prejudices and allowed me to absorb many of the diverse perspeetives espoused by others. Ironically, my slowed sense of time had excellorated my learning curve. 
By opening ourselves to our sur­roundings when we savor each moment, we also gain many subtle insights into life. My last semester bestowed upon me more of a sense of belonging to Notre Dame. I can say with all honesty that I moved closer to better understanding how Notre Dame graduates are attracted to a higher call of community, public and family serv­ice. Upon my graduation, I could feel the ghosts of those who had gone before me struggling. 'A(ith similade!t.,;rfl sons and feelings. 
Those of us who are currently mere ghosts of another time on campus con­tinue to live in the blood of the bricks. Once we pass through Notre Dame, our heartaches and triumphs can soon be forgotten. I, however, can reflect on what once was mine but remains so vividly portrayed in a scene similar to Dickens' "A Christmas Carol." 
On a long-ago May 20 when I watched the golden dome disappear in my rearview mirror, I conquered senioritis despite my lingering feelings of heartache and loss. What could have been a fiasco of my final semester actu­ally was the most memorable of my tenure at Notre Dame. 
Although my boring and unimpres­sive commencement speaker has since faded from my memory, my final semester remains a colorful part of me. Countering senioritis is more of a process than a remedy, a process that can begin well before January of senior year rather than after our exodus from campus. The trick is diagnosing your personal symptoms and starting your savoring process. 
Gary Caruso. Notre Dame '73. served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's adminis­tration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Eileen Duffy Dan Tapetillo Nicole Zook Chris Khorey How many of your professors are priests, 
Mary Kate Tom Dorwart brothers or sisters? Malone Scene 
a. 0 53%

Viewpoint Maria Smith b. I 27% 
Alyssa Illustrator c. 2 9% d. 3 3%
Brauweiler Graham Ebetsch 
e. 4 or more 8%
Graphics 

*Poll appears courtesy of
Graham Ebetsch 

www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on I04 responses. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To confine our attention to terrestrial matters would be to limit the human spirit. '' 
Stephen Hawking mathematician, cosmologist, physicist 
TI-lE 0HSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Friday, January 28, 2005 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Harvard president's cotntnents inappropriate 
Call to all 'real' basketball fans 
Whon I rntunwd to my room aftnr class Wednesday I had a voic(1flHtil from my morn. Slw wanted mo to rnad the society portion of tho latest Newswenk -some­thing about tlw presidnnt of Harvard, sei­(~ncn and the inmlnquatnnnss of women. What I road in that artidn blow my mipd. llad tho prnsidnnt of Harvard Univnrsity rnally stated that womnn are not succeed­ing in tho highest lnvels of math and sci-· mH·.n bncausn tlwy lack "innatn ability?" 
Tlw artie!•~ wont on to point put that throughout tho country, women account for rwarly half the baelwlor's dogroes earned in dwmistry and math hut only about 10 pNcnnl of the faeulty. Or how about the fart that only four of 32 fnmale !'acuity mPmbors were offered tenure last year'! 
I have seen similar studies·in the Chicago Trihurw wndurtnd by Notre Dame !'acuity nwmlwrs indicating that Notre Dame also rw1Hind to strive for more women in tenure and administrative positions. This is noth­ing nnw, nothing I hadn't heard bnl'orn, but what really caught me oiT guard was that thoro are still highly (Hiucatml people in positions of authority who might think tlwre aro innatn diiTnrcnees in tho ability ol' nwn and women to achieve academieally. 
l·:vnn scarier is that this man, Larry Sumnwrs, is supposed to ropresent the face of premier higher education in America. His statnnwnt madn a clnar mockery of 1wnry woman who has dnvoted her life to sciencn and every woman and girl who aspires to do so. lie used an excuse, a bad uxcu5•~. ·UJ'flxplain why thertl are not more top-love! female researchers and he dis­missed the struggles that tenure-track femaln faculty inevitably face. 
Every career-minded woman, in science and beyond, must deal with the issue of a demanding work schedule and the prospects of an adequate family life. llowever, I would like to suggest to Summers, and anyone who might secretly agree with him, that it is attitudes and soci­ety that are inadequate, not tho scientific aptitude of women. 
Even more disheartening is that women who are entering tho doctorate programs ani eventually linding themselves disillu­siorwd with the environnwnt, tired of searching for understanding mentors and are ultimately pursuing career options with the government or industry in order to avoid the struggle of elimbing the faculty ladder. 
Tho bottom line is that as a female col­lege student navigating through the rigors of a science-based curriculum at a top uni­versity, I do not appreciate a former econo­mist telling me what I am innately capable of doing in comparison to my male class­mates. I think it is a hard curriculum and I think we're all in the same boat. 
I lis suggested theory of innate differences appears as a direct parallel to raeism (might I add he earlier had a controversy with African-American Studies Harvard faculty), and worse still, his high rank almost lends itself to substantiating that myth as some kind of fact for anyone who wants to believe that women may be just a little bit dumber by nature. 
Natalie Bennett junior Howard Hall Jan. 27 


fans need to aet. 
Thomas Hogan off-campus Michael Hatkc Dillon Hall juniors Jan. 27 

Vagina Monologues deserve students' attention 
I was sorry to rnad that Peter Wicks has such a low opin­ion of tlw annual production of the Vagina Monologues. If he doesn't like the show, that's his prerogative. He's obviously rnad it, which is more than a lot of the people who complain about it can say. 
llow1wer, while his ridicule of the February furor that descm1ds on campus every year is relatively accurate, it is limitod in that it !'ails to address the reasons behind our pro­d uetion of the show and all the activities surrounding it. 
V-Day campaigns around the world generate broader attention for the light to stop violence against women and girls, including rape, baW1ry, incest, female genital mutila­tion and sexual slavery. Along with three benefit perform­ances of tho Vagina Monologues, we will be holding a week­long campaign to address the issue or campus rape. Proceeds from ticket sales and other donations will be going to the YWCA of St. Joseph County and Sex Offense Services in South BmHI. 
The student body of Notre Dame is notoriously apathetic about anything that does not involve sports, aleohol or abor­tion. Without the controversy surrounding the Vagina Monologuos, very few pnople would buy tickets to see the show, and not many morn than that would take a moment to think about any of the prndicamenls that women face today. 
If you're uncomfortahlo with the word "vagina," do not watch this show. (;o on your merry way. I lopefully, you and yours will nevnr have to deal with the pain of sexual assault. 
Still, whilo tho ongoing dnbato has brought this issue to your attention, at least do a little bit of independent research li•r yourself on viohmee against women or donate to one of tlw many organizations working to eombat it. 
Try to remember that thoro arn thousands of women worldwide who can'tjoke about all the controversy and walk away as nasily as you do. 
Monica Nanda sophomore Pangborn Hall Jan. 27 
U-WIRE 

United States the victilll of political correctness 
Poor SpongeBob. It's hard enough going through life in a pair of SquarePants. Now he stands accused of participating in a video that some con­servatives call "pro-gay propaganda." 
Makers of the video deny the claim, instead pointing out the video promotes unity and cooperation. But a 
Adam 
Kotlarczyk
spokesman for the conservative 

group Focus on the Family insists it is "manipulating and Northern potentially brainwashing kids." Illinois 
People, when a cartoon University sponge is no longer politically Northern Star correct, it's time for some cul­tural soul-searching. 
Not long ago, political correctness was a rela­tively harmless (if highly irritating) practice reserved largely for liberals. A "chairman" became a "chairperson,' a female·poet, a "poet-· ess." Although often annoying, these changes in how we talk were intended to make the American English language as diverse and inclusive as America. 
But liberals no longer hold the monopoly on political correctness -and PC no long~r means diversity and inclusiveness. Since the days imme­diately after Sept. 11, 2001, when then-White House Press Secretary Ari Fleischer warned Americans they "need to watch what they say 1and 1watch what they do," it seems it is conserva­tive groups that have more and more frequently sought to control how we talk, how we act and what we see. 
This past Veteran's Day, for example, ABC want­ed to show the Oscar-winning "Saving Private Hyan" unedited, but several afTIJiates refused to air it despite having dono so in past years. The conservative group American Family Association applauded the move. Why? The movie has bad language. 
\ 
And that brings us back to the unfortunate Mr. SquarePants. It's bad enough that elemonts of our society hypocritically deny rights like marriage to homosexuals while simultaneously using them for entertainment, enjoying shows like "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy" and "Will and Grace." But in 
, criticizing SpongeBob for even suggesting homo­. sexuality (because he often holds hands with another male character), we're now offended not just by gay rights, but by the slightest hint of potentially gay mannerisms. Which brings us to the all-important question: Where does that leave the Smurfs'? I mean, you can't tell me that in a whole village with only one female, there wasn't at least a little locker-room experimentation going on. A joke, of course, but if this craze of conserva­tive-style political. correctness doesn't subdun, what else is at risk? Will we apply it to literature, as well? In Tolkien's "Lord of the Hings," for example, Frodo and Sam frequently hold hands (never mind that Sam goes on to marry and have a passel of hobbit-kids). Should we keep that work away from children, too'? Naturally, not all people who are conservative ot· religious support this new politieal correctness. But when their views are mismprosnnted by their leaders or organizations (as, I would guess, many have benn by SpongeBob-gate) and they remain largely silent, it becomes incumbent on them to unite (they don't need to hold hands) and speak out against anyone -liberal or fellow conserva­tive -who seeks to manipulate their views. 
This column originally appeared on Jan. 27 in the Northern Star, the daily publication at the Northern Illinois University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 








CENE
page 10 
Friday, January 28, 2005 
Slam poets examine issues of race and religion 
S T 0 R Y B y CHRISTIE B 0 L S E N 
T 
he vast majority of Notre cally chal-ged night of poetry and engag­When Carney discovered after his nation," Nealon said. Dame students don't know ing dialogue. release from the center that his friend had Workshops run by the visiting poets, what it's like to be wrong­The event appropriately falls between died from AIDS, he made it his mission to such as tho one on Social fully arrested, or how it the last week's focus groups that opened eliminate the intolerance he once har­Entrepreneurship from 5 to 6 p.m. in the feels to face the world as a discussion on issues like homosexuality bored. He now uses his art to reform and McNeil Room today, will give students a 
Jew or skinhead. and the upcoming diversity awareness heal, and has performed on Bussell chance to further explore issues. It's not that easy to get an week. Several events also are scheduled Simmons' Def Poetry Jam on HBO. The Race and Heligion Symposium will 
inside look into a world with so many dif­around the symposium, including Kevin Coval, the third performer, is a take place Saturday from 7 to 9 p.m. in 
ferences from what's familiar. But at the Thursday night's Acousticafe, which fea­poet, emcee, essayist, activist and educa­the LaFortune Ballroom. The symposium 
Race and Religion Symposium, students tured performances by Notre Dame's own tor who has performed around the world will be followed by a question-and-answer 
may get a chance to see a world very dif­student slam poets Jelani McEwen­in countries including South Africa and session. 
ferent from the one they know uncovered. Torrence, Dennis Latimore and Grant India. His range of experience includes 
Three spoken word artists will bring their Osborn. opening for Ani Difranco and also appear­Contact Christie Boisen at 
experiences and backgrounds to a politi-Bryonn Bain, a Harvard law student, ing on Def Poetry Jam. Coval also works cbolsen@nd.edu became a national focus of toward contributing to the racial discussion when he was youth writing community in handcuffed and thrown in jail Chicago, where he teaches for a night by the NYPD when workshops for Young Chicago he and his friends were leaving Authors, the Guild Complex a nightelub in New York. Bain and the University of Hip-Hop. wrote an essay called "The Bill His art takes a critical look at of Hights for Black Men" after the current cultural and politi­the incident that became a cal environment, and also cover story for Harvard Law's explores his Jewish identity. Village Voice. His hip-hop lyrics deal with the 
Ted Koppel, Chris Matthews, impact of whiteness on people Johnnie Cochran and Oprah of color as well. Winfrey all discussed the racial­Tatiana Nealon, Student ly charged incident and Mike Union Board cultural arts pro­Wallace also interviewed Bain grammer, attended a confer­on CBS' 60 Minutes. ence in Kentucky in October 
Bain, who placed second in where she saw Jason Carney thn lnternalional Poetry Slam, perform to a standing ovation, will speak about keeping your and was struck by his powerful goals in sight despite barriers effect on the audience. She and a future of equality. hopes the conference will build 
Jason Carney, the seeond per­up interfaith awareness on former, is a former skinhead campus, as well as spark dis­who was sent to a juvenile cussion on the important issuo detention ~~nter as a young of race. -.. man because of his violence "By bringing in a Jewish per­stemming from gay and racial son to talk about his experi­intolerance. After rooming at ences, it can help people real­the center with a gay male who ize what it's like for someone of 
Bryonn Bain will speak regarding his experi­was HIV positive, his views a different religion to grow up Poet Kevin Coval has performed worldwide in ences with police and racial discrimination. changed. in a predominantly Christian countries including South Africa and India. 



Banda Rika and Matt Wertz hit Legends 
, STORIES B y B E C C A SAUNDERS 

Photo courtesy of www.bandarika.com 

Looking for a hint of warmth during these cold South Bend days? Legends is providing enter­tainment with a Latin flare tonight with Banda Hika. Named Chicago's best Salsa/Meringue band in 2002, the first band from the suburbs to gain that distinc­tion, Banda Hika comes to Legends with a great reputation. With a show featuring salsa, meringue, cumbia and bachata, Banda Hika promises entertain­ment and excitement. 
The 12 members of Banda Rika are split into a 10-piece "Orquesta" and a two-person front line.. Brass, bongos, bass, piano and other instruments back up vocalists Ramon Hiviera and Luis Berrios. Formed in 1999, Banda Rika began by open­ing for a show called "Grupo Kaos." 
As anyone who has listened to good Latin music can guess, the musicians leave no room for boredom anywhere they perform. The music and dancing are sure to provide enough energy and warmth for the entire room. There isn't much in the world of music that can equal a great Latin band -show up tonight to hear one of the best for miles around. 
The show starts at 10 p.m. on the club side of Legends. 

Photo courtesy of www.mattwertz.com 
...
. . 

Matt Wertz did not begin his life with aspirations of becoming a songwriter and performer. In fact, earlier in his life his aspiration was actually to become a shoe designer. Fortunately for Matt and the crowd that will be at Legends Saturday, Matt left those dreams behind after he began writing songs during his freshman year of college. 
The acoustic guitar player claims on his Web site that originally, "When I began writing songs, I never intended for anyone to hear them ... It was simply the natural outpouring of my heart." Fans of Wertz across the ·country are grate­ful his songs, comparable to the, likes of John Mayer and Jack Johnson, have come out and met the reeeptive fan base Wertz has started to create for himself through national touring in the last year and a half. 
Wertz's show is sure to be light and entertaining. 
Matt Wertz will be preceded by Notre Dame senior Kevin Leicht who is also a solo artist. Leicht will begin playing at 10 p.m. at the club side of Legends. If an enjoyable and laid back show is what your Saturday night needs, then Legends will most probably be the place for you. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

A 
sold-out Lei!{hton Concert llall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center awaits anoth­er world-class perform­ance from the Chieftains, some of the best-known ambassadors of Irish music. 
Tlu~ Chidtains have bmm successful partly through bridging a gap between modt~rn and traditional Celtic. musk and roaching out to both fan bases. The group plays traditional Celtic reels and ballads with tlw best, but brandws out in pm·forming with prmnier artists from many gmu·ns. Some artists have lost erndihility through similar endeavors, but the Chinftains have succeeded in nutking many styles their own. 
Tho ChiPI'tains were formed in Dublin in 1962 with tlw intent of performing traditional Celtic musi<:. The group's legacy bears a semblanco to the English group tho King's Singers who performed at the Leighton Concert llall in November. Paddy Moloney founded the original group and still performs today as its front man. Moloney performs on the Uilleann (pronounced "illian") Pipes and tin whistle. Other musicians include Kevin ConnetT on the Bodhran (an Irish drum pronounced "bough-rawn") and voeals, Sean Keane on the fiddle and Matt Molloy on /lute. 
The Chieftains have crossed over to rock music by performing with guest artists including Pete Townshed, Bob Dylan, Elvis Costello and fellow Irishman Van Morrison. On "Long Black Veil" the group performs with the Rolling Stones, Sting, and even Tom .Jones. On "Down the Old Plank Hoad: The Nashville Sessions" the Chieftains also performed with bluegrass greats like Bela Fleck, Tim O'Brien and Allison Kraus. 
Since its creation, the group has enjoyed the luxury of an appreciative audience. The band first garnered acclaim in Ireland and England, when it maintained a senti-professional, part­time aspect to its work. The band broke out internationally with its scoring of' the 1975 lilm "Barry Lyndon." After a four­decade long career, the Chieftains have released 44 albums, with their next album, a tribute to departed member Derek Lowe, due in stores Feb. 22. 
The Chieftains also set several per­formance milestones for Western music, becoming the first Western music group to tour China in 1983 (a tour that included a performance on the Great • Wall of China), and breaking worldwide concert records with a 1979 concert in Dublin before 1.35 million people including Pope John Paul II. The band's current tour takes it throughout the United States up until late March, and includes performances at Clrdwst.ra llall in Chieago and tho Kemwdy Cnntnr in Washington, D.C. 
So great is tho Chieftains' reputation for traditional Irish music that in 19S9 the Hnpublie of' ln~land appointed them tho ol'fieial musk ambassadors /'or Ireland. Even so, tho band has prov1~d to not only be a driving /'oren through Irish music, but through tlw popular musir culture as a whole. Its work has recP-ived 10 Gram my nominations, and it won tho award multiple times through­out the 1990s. Its "Barry Lyndon" scor­ing was awarded with an Oscar, and it has provided musk for numerous film, television and stage produt:t.ions. 
The Chieftains take the stage at the Leighton Concert llall Sunday at S p.m. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 
-
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, January 28, 2005 
NFL 
Brady trying to downplay Montana comparisons 
Associated Press 
FOXBOHO, Mass. -Tom Brady played in his driveway 20 miles south of San Francisco and pretended to be Joe Montana. He even tried to spot the 49ers' quarterback at Super Bowl victo­ry parades. 
Today, Brady is often com­pared to the Hall of Farner and children look up to the New England star the way he did to Montana. 
"It's really neat on Halloween when you see those jerseys," Brady said Thursday. "I had a lit­tle kid come up to my door with a No. 12 jersey on. It's like, 'Oh, man.' It's just come such a long way." 
From part-time starter at Michigan to sixth-round draft choice to two-time Super Bowl MVP. Brady has made huge strides in a hurry. He's just 27, but is in position to help the Patriots become only the second team to win three Super Bowls in four years. 
But he's still behind Montana's four Super Bowl wins and eight Pro Bowl selections. Brady, head­ed to his second Pro Bowl, admits he's uncomfortable with the comparisons. 
''I'm very flattered," Brady said. "I don't think I'm on that level (and) I'm still trying to get better." 
But he's not easily distracted once he sets his goals. 
He had a fever last weekend but still played brilliantly in the Patriots' 41-27 over Pittsburgh in the AFC championship game. But he said he never came close to missing the game and down·· played the illness. 
"There's a lot of guys who were sick and a lot of guys aren't feel·­ing good and a lot of guys are probably playing with tougher ailments than I was," Brady said. "Guys have been doing that all year. 
"Everyone plays with great toughness and never complains. A little !lu bug. Like that's a big deal. You know (the attention it got) takes aw~y from what thosn guys do." 
He wouldn't say how sick he was but said he was feeling bet­ter Thursday. 
Montana completed 63.2 per­cent of his passes and is seventh in NFL history in touchdown passes and eighth in yards pass­ing in 13 full seasons. Elbow problems sidelined him for the entire 1991 season and limited him to one game in 1992. 
Brady has completed 61.6 per­'cent of his passes in five seasons, including his rookie year when he played just one game, and is 8-0 in the playoffs. Montana was 7-1 in his first eight postseason games before finishing at 16-7. 
"Tom is as competitive as Montana," said Patriots third-


string quarterback Jim Miller, a 10-year yeteran. "I just think Tom's got a great feel for the game. He just has a great feel when to move in the pocket, when a certain guy's going to be open." 
Brady has improved his accu­racy and game management since he took the starting job after Drew Bledsoe was hurt in the second game of the 2001 sea­son. 
"When he's in the zone, I don't think there's anybody better," tight end Christian Fauria said. 
The charismatic star has made such an impression that his teammates hear about it at home. 
"Troy Brown tells me his little kid says I'm his favorite player," Brady said. "So when you hear stuff like that from your own teammate you get the biggest kick out of it." 

As his achievements pile up in a career that should last many more years, more fans will wear his No. 12 jersey and admire the kid who once tossed a football in a driveway not far from where Montana was becoming an idol. 
"I lopefully," Fauria said, "peo­ple will bn comparing other peo­ple to him. Iley, you got that Tom Brady quality. That would be more of a compliment than any­thing." 

Eagles looking to prevent Super Bowl letdown 
Associated Press ment but insisted they won't hundreds of fans after the -to reach the Super Bowl. recent years because none of 
be satisfied until they bring Eagles beat the Atlanta Those fans won't be crushed if the major professional sports 
PHILADELPHIA -Donovan home another trophy, the one Falcons 27-10 to win the NFC the Eagles lose to the defend­teams has won a champi­McNabb held the NFC champi­with Vince Lombardi's name championship. Falling one vic­ing champion New England onship since the 76ers cap­onship trophy above his head, on it. tory short three Patriots on Feb. 6 tured the NBA title in 1983. closed his eyes and savored The Eagles vowed not to be years in a row, in Jacksonville, The 76ers were the last the moment. Brian Dawkins one of those teams -such as including two Fla. team to play for a champi­clutched it in his arms, took a San Diego, Atlanta and losses at home, 'This thing isn't "When T.O. onship, losing four straight
,

lap around the field, and Cincinnati -that have let made this win over. went down, games to the Los Angeles handed it off to teammates to down once they got to the big even sweeter. e v e r y b o d y Lakers after opening the 2001 pass around the same way game. "All I kept thought they NBA Finals with an overtime
Donovan McNabb
hockey players treat the "This thing isn't over," said thinking was how were done," said victory. The Flyers were swept

Philadelphia
Stanley Cup. McNabb, the five-time Pro they finally did it, Rich Maziatti, a by Detroit in the 1997 Stanley 
Fans gathered on Broad Bowl quarterback. "It's a step­that they finally quarterback season ticket Cup Finals. The Phillies were Street, honked horns, stood ping stone toward our goal got one," said fan holder who was-two wins away from winning atop snowbanks and waved and our goal is to win the Joseph Anson. "I n't among the their second World Series in their Eagles banners, hats and Super Bowl. You don't have to cried out of hap-lucky ones to win 1993, before Joe Carter's dra­towels. worry about our team being piness and sheer relief, a lottery for a chance to buy matic walk-off homer in Game 
After· three straight losses in overly excited about winning because coming so close and Super Bowl tickets. "They 6 gave Toronto its second the NFC title game, the NFC championship game. not getting there all those proved those so-called experts straight title. Philadelphia finally was going For everyone in Philadelphia, times was so very disappoint­wrong. They won without T.O. "Until we win a champi­to the Super Bowl for the first they feel like the curse has ing." Win or lose against New onship, not just an NFC cham­time in 24 years. While fans in been erased. As a football For some fans, the Eagles England, they made us proud." pionship, we'll be known as this championship-starved city team, we don't think of any already have accomplished Not so fast. loser city," Anthony Simonelli celebrated like their team had curse." enough by overcoming adver­This may be the City of said while selling Eagles T­already won the big game, Tears of joy streamed down sity -a devastating injury to Brotherly Love, but it's been shirts and hats on a street cor­players relished their achieve-the faces of many players and All-Pro receiver Terrell Owens called the City of Losers in ner in South Philly. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND FoR SALE FOR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW Great 6-7 bdrm home available Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 
LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail-Days $299! Includes Meals, 
SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES able NOW. Both Close to ND,W/0, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, 
LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS-on-site parking. NO Internet Canopy Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, 
2-6 bedroom homes for 05-06 ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED-access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award LOST: CAR KEYS w/Caesar s Complete working computers $125 Walking distance from NO. ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT 229-3659 Winning Company! keyring near JACC Monday morn-57 4-286-3295. MMMRentals.com 532-1408 NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­ing. Reward offered. Call 507-304-SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR 6386 0446. New 4-bdrm,3-bath home.Avail MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year ­
One bedroom condo near UNO. 8/05. Cathedral ceiling, fireplace, ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-Available June 1,2005 2 Bedrooms-Cheapest 2005 Spring Break $499 
Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim deluxe kitchen, skylights, 2-car 2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7-2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security all-inclusive, all drinks, all food, all 
Kollar garage, family room, 10x20 deck. 8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES System. Fully Furnished {574)233-parties! www.needspringbreak.com 
Safe area. GOING QUICK. 7373 or Salvaty@earthlink.net 1-866-668-9037. 
WANTED 
Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-H Town and W-athon ...peace out Hot New Spirit "T" :ahirt! Hanes 5038. VISIT OUR 

PERSONAL 

BOSOX FANS check out newyork-Heavy Duty, Kelly Green w/Gold WEBSITEWWW.DOMUSKRAMER. Maria ... l know I can always find you chokees.net Imprint. Front: WEIS UP! Back: COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI-COM Spring Break 2005 with STS, Amer-on North quad 
UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 ica s #1 Student Tour Operator. Professor needs part-time babysit-SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED-OR CONTACT: KRAMER Hiring campus reps.Call for group Oh Shenannigans! ter for three year old boy, please Get Nasty! $16.95 ea/2 for $30 plus ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY 235-discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800­
....­
call 1-3770. S+H 574-273-8239. 7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032. 648-4849 www.ststravel.com What was your story at fortnight? 
-----------,----:-----­
Friday, January 28, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
MLB 
Delgado's four-year deal with Marlins finalized 
Associated Press 
Mli\MI -Carlos Dolgado and tlw Florida Marlins final­iznd tlwir $52 million, l'our­yoar contract Thursday, a rnovo that could chango the halanco ol' pownr in tho NL Hast. 
Dolgado, who hit at least :~0 honw runs nach of the past night seasons with Toronto, passed his physical Wndnesday and was introducml at a news conl'nrnncc1 . 
.. 1 want to put mysell' on a tnam that has a chanco to win, and that's tho Florida Marlins," Dnlgado said. "I can't wail to mnnt tlw guys." 
J!lorida won out over the Nc~w York Mots, who .also 
o ITn n~ d $ 5 2 m i II i o n , a n d Baltimorn and Texas, whieh (Htch ol'fnrc~d $4H million. 
"I think this is tho best lit for nw to havo a dHtnce to win," l>nlgado s1tid. "i\nd thn fact that. it's nico and warm here, thn fact that it's only only two hours from Puorto Hico, yeah, it is vory nicn as wnll, it's gravy." 
llis addition is a boost to the Marlins, who are trying to put together a financing package for a new ballpark. 
"It shows my desire to win. Everybody knows how I hate to lose," Marlins owner Jeffrey Loria said. "This signing makes porfeet sense for this team at this time." 
Florida is trying to end i\tlanta'~ record streak of 13 conseeutivo division titles. 
"I still think they're the team to beat," Marlins manager Jack McKeon said. "They find a way to como up with the players. Everybody gave the Bravns a goodbye last year, and look what happened." 
There's no assurance the Marlins will be bettor than last year after losing aee Carl Pavano (1H-8) and elosnr Armando Benitez (47 saves) to free agency. 
General manager Larry Beinfest signed AI Leiter to take Pavano's spot in the rota­tion. Guillermo Mota is slated to becomn a first-time eloser as part of a revamped bullpen. 

A left-handed power hitter has topped McKeon's wish list ever since he became manager in 2003. Delgado's one of the best. 
"Jack, I guess now you know you've got the lert-handed bat that you want," Loria told McKeon, seated near him at Thursday's hiring press eon" ferenee. 
"About time," McKeon quick­ly responded. 
Delgado has already started to earn his keep. The Marlins sold $150,000 worth of season tickets Wednesday, five times their daily norm. 
"This ballclu b has a very good lineup, a very.good pitch­ing staff and a very, very good chance to make it to the play­offs," Delgado said. 
Delgado is the city's newest Latin celebrity but hardly the Marlins' lone star. He'll be one of seven regulars to have played in an All-Star game. And the rotation, the team's strength the past two seasons, still includes .Josh Beckett, A . .I. 

Burnett and Dontrnlle Willis. 
"The Marlins were good before Delgado, and now they're a better team than thny were last year," said Leite•·. who pitched the past seven seasons for l.lw Mets. "With tlw considorabln movement of players in the NL East, it's up for grabs. No disrespnct t.o the Braves, but there's a sense that ovorybody has a shot." 
NBA 
After slow start, Bulls begin to pick up steam 
Associated Press 
UtiC"-<iO _.K"trnp in mi-nd that wach Scott Skilns gets paid a lot to mako sure the glass always looks half-full. Anybody olso who says they saw the Chicago Bulls in the playoJT hunt midway through this season is 
either lying or had better have a 
doctor's note explaining they've ~!Jmm in <t'tl(')IJ1a. • 
The reason has little to do with the spend of the Bulls' turnaround or the lack of prece­dent. The N BA's mantra, after all, is "everybody makes a run," and just last season, the Miami Heat stumbled 0-7 leaving the gate and still managed to dose a respectable 42-40 and make · the playofTs. 

So why not the Bulls? 

Before we tackle that ques­tion, a word from Skiles. 




Global Geo 
li 
A View from the Top (and the Inside) 
Gee-strategic issues and events in IEu.r~.~~; llessia ~rn<:l ltlile ll1ilah.e !Zas~!,/ 
',)),,..~At?~:-;~~, ~, " 
John Mroz P re·s:i.dent and Founder 
.,, v ;.·· 

Eas~~we.st Ins.ti:,tute 
Since 1980, the EastWest Institute has worked to bridge divides along the fault Unes of world 
I

geopolitics. Under its auspices, world leaders come together to explore solutions to pressing 
I

security, economic and political challenges. Our speaker is a tireless promoter of world peace, and an individual with a profound inside knowledge of the thinking of major world figures. ·I 

Mr. Mroz has served as an advisor to more than twenty governments including the US, Germany, Poland and Russia, as well as the Commission of the European Union. NATO, the Council of Europe and r.he G-8. He writes regularly in the interna· tiona/ press on global change and interna· tiona/ security as well as European, Rus­sian, Eurasian and Middle Eastern affairs. 

....................................................................................................... : .............. c: ......,i 
MONDAY, JANUARY 3 'I, 2005 
Hesburgh Center for Intern<!; 

~: +#:·>" 
>;. ··.::.. 'fi: 

For more information, vi$iti ~':'l!wi.info 
endure this season," Skiles said after practice the other day. "But even then, we never saw ourselves being any 0-9 team. At least it didn't feel that way. So that gave us a mental head start in turning things around. We always had confidence that we are a good team." 
With Thursday night's visit by the Charlotte Bobcats marking the official midpoint of the sea­son, the Bulls suddenly look like a very good team. They came in having won four straight, 11 of 12, and 17 of the last 21. Even in a weak Eastern Conference and a league filled with surpris­es, that has to be the most sur­prising development of all. 
Skiles, of course, had a per­fectly reasonable explanation. 
"We went from virtually last in the league to first in one major defensive statistic," he said, referring to his team's ability to hold opponents to a league-low 41 percent lield-goal shooting percentage. But play­ing great defense is a symptom and not the cause of the Bulls' success. 
Credit for that belongs mostly to Skiles and general manager John Paxson, who as recently as six weeks ago had no reason to believe that their commitment 
and tough lovn were about to be rewarded. 
Franchisos reaeh tipping points all thn time, and at that moment, this futurn of Chicago's looked a lot morn like thn Clippers than one just a half­dozen years removed from tlw salad days of Michael Jordan. What the Bulls had in eommon with the Clippors was a handful of losing seasons, a team loadnd with undorachieving draft pieks and disgruntled veterans who viewed Chicago as a rnst stop on the way to somnwhnrn else. 
Paxson turned out to be shrewder than his predecessor Jerry Krause. lin found better players in tlw draft and patient­ly pruned the roster instead of cutting down the trne and start­ing over one more time. Then he quit meddling and let tlw hard-nosed Skilns do the rest. 
Even so, as recently as Deeembnr, Uw Bulls were flop­ping and offers were coming in for Eddy Curry and Tyson Chandler, tho high sdwol phe­noms whose arrnstnd develop­ment was the legacy of the last administration. Paxson sur­rounded them with a better mix of veterans and four rookies that turnnd out to be mueh bet­tor than advertisnd. 
BIWADIU) O!v' ICE is u glittering swgc spcctaculur brought to daz1.ling !if.: by Olympic skntcrs. 
h:d hy Gold Mednl winncr l)o•·otby II am ill. Teamed 11 rth l)avi~ Gninrs. the star uf over 
2.000 performances of 7'//f.' PIIANIOAl OF Tlfl,· OPERA. this is truly a nurgkul theatrical c~cnt on icc for hoth Broadway music lovers and families alike. 
One week on/yf 
Feb. 15-20~ 2005 
Call: 574.23S.9JQO or 800.537.6415 
www.Bro..1dwayTheatreLca~ut\COnl 
PN"!if't"'IN1 t)y ~ro;c'l(huy l'hc.oatl'f" ~agur ·\ UW\flflJfit (lFg.ittll't;,:UI(.)O 


page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, January 28, 2005 
NCAA MEN's BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. ­When Michigan State met at halftime. the Spartans talked about putting away Michigan in the first 5 minutes of the second half. 
They did. 

Maurice Ager scored 18 points and No. 15 Michigan State started the second half strong before coasting to a vic­tory over the Wolverines on Thursday night. 
"That was huge," Ager said of scoring the first eight points after halftime. "We got a lot of energy out of that. Guys got after it, and got on the floor. You can't help but go on a run." 
The Spartans (13-3, 5-1 Big Ten) have won 11 of their last 12, and 11 of 12 against Michigan (12-8, 3-3). 
Michigan State plays No. 1 Illinois on Tuesday at home after a nonconference tuneup against Oakland on Saturday. 
The Spartans were subdued in the locker room after han­dling their rival easily because they knew. a similar effort against the Fighting Illini would lead to a loss, hurting their Big Ten title hopes. 
"That's just kind of a sign of where we are and that we do have a good idea of the big pic­ture," guard Chris Hill said. 

Dion Harris and Courtney Sims each had 12 points for the Wolverines, who were without standout point guard Daniel Horton. He was sus­pended indefinitely after being charged with domestic vio­lence on Monday and without him. Michigan had 23 turnovers against the Spartans' pressure defense. 
Harris said the Wolverines missed Horton a lot. 
"l think we just broke down offensively and defensively," said Harris, who had six turnovers. "They pressured me every time I got the ball, they 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles look to move up in the conference 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swimming team will be traveling to Albion College Saturday to face the Britons and the Knights of Calvin. The Belles currently reside in sixth place in the MIAA with a record of 1-3, but can overtake Albion for the fifth spot with a vic­tory. Calvin College sits on top of the conference with a record of 3­0 as it has dominated most of its competition to this point. 
Last year, Saint Mary's suffered losses to both teams during con­ference action. Albion defeated the Belles by a score of 128-106, while the Knights breezed by the Belles with a relatively easy 119­84 win. In the meet against Albion, Bridget Lebiedz finished second in the 200-yard freestyle and teammate Kelly Nelis placed second in the 50-yard freestyle with a time of 26.56 seconds NelL'> also won the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 5:30. 
Against conference rival Calvin, Nelis finished second in the 200­yard freestyle event, while Sarah Nowak had a strong performance in the 200-yard individual medley with a time of 2:27. The team also captured first in the 200-yard freestyle relay finishing with a time of 1:46. 
Heading into this weekends meet, Saint Mary's is coming ofl' a devastating loss to Kalamazoo, a team that beat the Belles 144-71 last weekend. Because of the defeat, it is crucial Saint Mary's have a strong performance to gain ground in league play. However, coach Gregg Petcoff believes the team has an excellent chance of moving up in the conference standings. Two wins this weekend could move the Belles to as high as fourth in the MIAA. 

So far this season, Nelis has the top finishes in both the 50-yard and 500-yard freestyles with respective times of 26.43 and 5:30. 
Nowak leads the team in the 100-freestyle with a time of 57.34 and has recorded a time of 2:04 in the 200-yard freestyle. She has also posted finishes of 1:11 and 
2:32 in the 100 and 200-yard breaststrokes. 
Lisa Balog has had an impres­sive freshman campaign by swim­ming a team-best 11:43 in the 1,000-yard freestyle as well as recording a time of 20:05 in the 1,650-yard freestyle. 
This weekend, the Belles will need all of their swimmers to be in top form if they wL'ih to have a chance at beating both competi­tors. 
The first event commences at 1 

p.m. on Saturday. Following the events, Saint Mary's will preparP for the MIAA Swimming and Diving Championships on Feb 10. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

NBA 
Balanced scoring lifts Pistons over Pacers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Chauncey Billups seored 20 points and Tayshaun Prince had 16 points and seven rebounds as the Detroit Pistons used a balanced scoring attack to defeat the Indiana Paeers 88-76 Thursday night. 
lt was the seeond meeting between the teams since Nov. 19, wheri Pacers players brawled with Pistons fans after Ben Wallaee shoved Ron Artest. Both games have been in Indianapolis. and both times the Pistons have won. 
The teams faee each for the last time in the regular season March 25 at Detroit. That will be Indiana's first trip back to the Palace of Auburn Hills since the light. 
Detroit won its seeond straight after losing four in a row, while Indiana has lost three straight and five of seven. The Pacers dropped under .500 for only the second time this season. 
Thursday's game was full of emotion, too. 
Indiana fans booed loudly as the Pistons were introduced and booed again each time Ben Wallaee scored. The game also was marrPd by five technical fouls, and fans jawed with Pistons players, sometimes play­fully, in the final minutes of the game. 
Ben Wallace finished with 10 points and 11 rebounds. 
The game got off' to a con­tentious start. Two days after five Pacers players appeared in a Detroit courtroom, Heggie Miller, Hasheed Wallace and Pacers coach Hiek Carlisle all drew technical fouls in the first half, and Jermaine O'Neal picked up another technical early in the third quarter. 
The Pacers' scoring burden was carried by O'Neal and Stephen Jackson, who were both involved in the November melee. O'Neal finished with 27 points and nine rebounds while Jackson scored 11 points, five rebounds and three assists in his second game baek after a 30-game suspension for his role in the brawl. 
Fred Jones added 14 points off the bench, and point guard Jamaal Tinsley was particularly ineffective after missing Wednesday night's game in Boston with the flu. Tinsley missed all six of his shots, fin­ishing with two points and four assists after being in foul trou­ble most of the night. 
The Pistons used a runs of 13­2 and 6-0 to build a 39-25 lead. 
The Pacers rallied just before halftime, scoring the last five points to close to 47-40. But Detroit opened the second half by scoring five straight points and pulled away with a 7-0 spurt that made it 66-51 with 
2:18 left in the third quarter. 
Kings 90, Spurs 80 
The Sacramento Kings played San Antonio twice this week ­the first time with Peja Stojakovic, the second without him. The Kings lost both times, but on Thursday they were more competitive minus their No. 2 scorer. 
Manu Ginobili scored 25 points and Tim Duncan added 20 for the Spurs, who fended off a late rally for win. 
Stojakovic, averaging 20.3 points, sat out with back spasms. The Kings lost the pre­vious meeting by 30 points. 
"We are not happy just because it was closer," Sacramento's Chris Webber said. "A loss is a loss." 
The Kings cut San Antonio's lead to 78-77 when Webber stole the ball and passed to Brad Miller for a layup with 5:06 left. 
The Spurs then went on an 8­0 run as Robert Horry made three free throws, Bruce Bowen hit a 3-pointer and Duncan worked inside for a layup over Miller. 
Sacramento missed nine of its last 10 shots after Miller's fayup. 
'The only way we are going to win this game is to play good (defense)," Harry said. "We were very fortunate that we contested shots and they missed those shots." 
Bowen finished with 14 points, 10 of them in the second half. 
Tony Parker finished with 12 points, and Duncan had 12 rebounds. 
"We didn't play our best bas­ketball," Duncan said. "We gave 
1 ERASMUS BOOKS : : • Used Books bought and sold : • 25 Categories of Books •• 25,000 Hardback and : Paperback books in stock : • Out-of-Print search service '• Appraisals large and small 
· OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
them too many opportunities to get back in the game." 
Miller scored 19 points, Mike Bibby 17 and Webber 16 for Sacramento, which trailed by double digits several times.. Matt Barnes,-starting in place of Stojakovic, had eight points on 3-for-5 shooting. 
Kings coach Hiek Adelman said his team held its own, but that San Antonio executed bet­ter down the stretch. 
"Obviously they are the best team in the league right now," Adelman said. "They hurt us getting to the basket -Parker in the first half and then Ginobili in the second half." 


Parker had a hand in 1 0 of the Spurs' first 12 basket., scoring four of them and recording assists on six others. San Antonio fed off Parker's ability to penetrate in building a 23-11 lead with 4:49 left in the first quarter. 
Sacramento shot 5-for-8 to finish the first quarter and then made its first five of the second quarter to take its only lead of the game, 35-34. 
On the go-ahead basket, Miller hit Darius Songaila with a long toss for a breakaway dunk while Malik Hose, assigned to defend Songaila, was hiding his faee in his jersey after a turnover. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2005 SWISS VALLEY 
BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00P.M. 
Cost: $40.00 Lift ticket, snowboard & transport $35.00 Lift ticket. ski rental & transport $25.00 Lift ticket & transport only 
RETURN BUS LEAVES SWISS VALLEY AT 10:00 P.M. BEGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE 
REGISTER AND PAY IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS BEGINNING JANUARY 31, 2005 
DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 3, 2005@ 5:00 P.M. 


OUND THE NATION 
hiday, January 28, 2005 
------. ---­
NBA 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Division 
ltmrn meord perl'. GB L 10 Boston 20-22 .476 5-5 Philadelphia 19·22 .463 .5 4-6 Toronto 18·25 .419 2.5 6·4 New York 17-24 .415 2.5 1-9 New Jersey 16·26 .381 4.0 4·6 
Central Division tt~am rn!'ord pc•re. CB LlO Cleveland 25-16 .610 6-4 
Detroit 25-18 .571 1.0 6-4 Chicago 22·19 .525 3.0 9-1 Indiana 20-21 .488 5.0 4-6 Milwaukee 15·25 .375 9.5 4·6 
Southeast Division ft~lllll rocord pore . GB L10 Miami 31-13 .705 5·5 
Washington 26-15 .634 3.5 8·2 Orlando 22·19 .537 7.5 5·5 Charlotte 8-31 .211 20.5 1·9 Atlanta 8-32 .200 21 3·7 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Northwest Division tfllllll record pore . GB L10 Seattle 29-12 .707 6·4 
Minnesota 23-19 .548 6.5 6·4 Denver 11·25 .405 12.5 3·7 Portland 16-25 .390 13.0 2·8 Utah 15-28 .349 15.0 4·6 
Pacific Division team reeord perc. GB LlO Phoenix 34-10 .773 4·6 
Sacramento 28-13 .683 4.5 8·3 L.A. lakers 22-18 .550 10.0 6·4 L.A. Clippers 20-22 .476 13.0 4·6 Golden State 12-30 .286 21.0 1·9 
Southwest Division team rm:ord pnrc. GB L 10 San Antonio 35-10 .778 7·3 
Dallas 28-13 .683 4.5 7·3 Houston 24-19 .558 9.5 8·2 Memphis 24-20 .545 10.0 7-3 New Orleans 7-34 .171 25.5 5·5 
CCHA Hockey Standings 
/r!am conference cmerall 
Michigan 16·2·0 19·6·1 Ohio State 13-4·1 16-7·3 Northern Michigan 10-5-3 12·7-5 Nebraska-Omaha 10·8·2 12·10-2 Michigan State 8·9·1 13·11-2 Bowling Green 7-7-2 10·9-3 Alaska Fairbanks 7·10·1 8·11-1 lake Superior State 6-7-3 7·13-4 Miami (Ohio) 5-10-3 9·13-4 Ferris Stale 4·11·3 9·14·3 Western Michigan 5·10·1 10·11·1 NOTRE DAME 3-11-4 5-16·5 

around the dial 
PGA TouR 
Bob Hope Classic, 4 p.m., USA 
NBA 
Cavs at Knicks 7 p.m., ESPN Wizards at Magic 7 p.m., Comcast 76ers at Hornets 8 p.m., Comcast Kings at Rockets 9:30 p.m., ESPN 2 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
TENNIS 


champion Federer and in a rematch of last y1~ar's to retrieve a denp shot
Associated Press advancing to his third Wimbledon final produend wide to his forehand sidn. MELBOUHNE, Australia Australian Opon final in about as mueh drama as IIe swatted baek a desp!~r­-Roger Federer was on four years. Federer-Salin. ation shot, but slipped and his hands and knees, his "It's always going to Williams savnd thrne dropped his rackot. Saf'in racket gone after he tum­hurt, no matter how great match points, then leaped eonvertnd the putaway. bled chasing a shot. the match was," Federer three times after ending it "It's like a brain light. ­All he could do was said. "But at least you can with a wimwr. It's morn mental than watch as Marat Safin leave tho place feeling The top-ranked Dav­physieal against Hognr," tapped a gentle forehand good about yourself, enport, who eontmnplat1~d said Sal'in, who smaslwd into an opnn court to cap a bm~ause I gave it all I had." retiring in 2004, came his racknt to thn court two thrilling 4 1/2-hour The fourth-seeded Salin back to beat No. 19 points bnforn lw lost tho Australian Open smnilinal next meets No. 2 Andy Nathalie Dechy of France third set and later btdtl'd a and nnd the top-ranked Hoddick or No. 3 Lleyton 2-6, 7-6 (5), 6-4. Davonport ball into the stands. FNinrnr's 26-mateh win­Hewitt, whose snmilinal is also roached tlw doublns Thn nwrcurial Hussian, ning streak. Friday. final, pairing with Corina w ho s n Ion n m aj or ti t It' Salin fended oiT a match The womnn's final is set, Morariu to facn Svetlana came at tho 2000 U.S. point in the fourth set, then featuring past champions Kuznetsova and Alieia Open, shownd that it is nended seven match points Serena Williams and Molik for that titlo. possible to frustrate of his own before pulling Lindsay Davenport. With Fndnrer trailing 8-7 Fndnrnr. The Swiss star off a 5-7, 6-4, 5-7. 7-6 (6), Williams' 2-6, 7-5, 8-6 vic­in the fifth sot and serving won four of tho pnwious IJ-7 upset of defending tory over Maria Sharapova on match point, he lungnd six Slams. 
IN BRIEF 

Rockies revamp roster, Turin struggles to find it in payment-in-kind snrvit~ns such 
frustrate fans su.pporti fun.ds for '06 as 3,000 ears and 900 buses. ';. DENVlm -Thn Colorado Hockies Winter 0 ymp1cs Karl debuts against former have tried winning with pitching, hit­TUIUN, Italy -It seemed like a team ting and speed. They've thrown perfect match: Fiat and tho DENVlm -(inorgn Karl had bonn 
money at free agnnts, rebuilt through Olympics. involved with basketball since thn minor league deals and gone after The Turin-based carmaker and its seventh grade, so not having it in his players with high character. flamboyant ski-loving chairman, life for nearly two years lel't him fool­
None of it has worked and the Gianni Agnelli, would ensure tho ing empty. 
Hockies arn asking fans to stay linaneial security of the 2006 Winter Now that lw's headed baek to till' patient as they change tactics ynt Games in the Piedmont capital and NBA, Karl has a greater apprndation again. surrounding Alps. for what tho ganw has nwant to him. 
Tearing apart the roster and start­It hasn't worked out that way. Out of the NBA sineo the Bucks ing from scratch with top prospects With just over a year to go before !ired him in 20(>3, Karl was hack in might be tho best plan yet, but somn the opening ceremony, Turin is Milwaukee on Thursday to take fans are growing weary of an organi­scrambling to line up sponsors, over­over as coach of tho undnrad1inving zation that seems to switch philoso­come a $196 million budget shortfall Dnnvor Nuggets. lin's expected to Lw phies like a runway model goes and drum up national support. on the bench Friday night, making through clothes. Fiat, meanwhile, is in denp linan­his dnbut with tho Nuggets against 
"If I would have known a couple of cial trouble due to dwindling car his l'ormnr team. months earlier what I know now, I sales and has gone through l'ivn 
"The last 18 months was tho lirst. would have dropped out," said Joe CEOs in less than two years. Agnnlli time I was not with a bashthall Gorlowski, a season-ticket holder died in 2003 and his brother, 
team for 38 years," Karl said. "I now 
from Fort Collins. "It seems like tho Umbnrto, died last May. rnalize how fun and what a privilngl' !owners and GMI are depleting the Fiat companies are contributing it is to be with a baskntball team." team. They arc making it into a minor only $52 million to Turin's overall The Nuggets hope his enthusiasm 
league team at major league priees." $1.5 billion Olympic budget, much of rubs ofT. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, January 28, 2005 
HOCKEY 
Solid finish would move Irish up in the CCHA 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
While they may be in last place in the CCIIA at this point in the season, the Irish are cer­tainly not out of postseason eontention. 
Currently, Notre Dame sits in 12th place with 10 points, with the sixth-place team, Bowling Green, only six points ahead. That's just a three-win differ­nnce, and as Irish coach Dave Poulin knows, Notre Dame still has a chance to havn a hot streak heading into thn last 10 games of the year. 
"We can do whatever we want to do," he said. "I talked to our guys and told them that every team I've been associat­ed with here at Notre Dame has had a roll where things happen for you, and you get that confident roll and your energy level picks up. 
"That hasn't happened for us over a stretch of time, yet, and I think it's ahead of us for this final stretch." 
Notre Dame will hope to start a winning streak this weekend as they take on Bowling Green in a home-and-home series, with the Irish meeting the Falcons on the road tonight and returning home to the .Joyce Center to close out the series Saturday night. 
The Irish are currently mired in a six-game losing streak, dating back to a 2-1 victory against Rennselaer on Jan. 2. 
Notre Dame has also failed to score a single goal in its last 156 minutes, 50 seconds ­dropping two 2-0 shutouts to No. 5 Wisconsin last week­end.On the season, the Irish are averaging just 1.50 goals per game, the second worst average in all of Division I (Army is last with a 1.39 goals­per-game average). In the 26 games Notre Dame has played to date, the Irish have scored one goal or fewer in 15 of them. 
"We're trying to focus on the simplicity of not talking about goals," Poulin said. "We're try­ing to talk about completing a pass, completing two passes in the neutral zone, getting our feet moving, being in better position for our teammates. 
"We've sort of gone back to the fundamentals of hockey and not focused so much on the topic of goal scoring." 
If the Irish can manage to get a few goals per game, they should have a good chance of finishing the season on a roll. Notre Dame's goaltending has been phenomenal, even if the final records don't show it. 
Irish senior goalie Morgan 


Cey has been strong all snason, but nspAcially in thA month of January, where hA has a 2.23 goals against average and a .926 save percentage. His record during that month was just 1-6-1 however. 
"Our defense has been really good all season," Poulin said. "Our goaltAnders played well both games [against Wisconsin l and our penalty kill was espe­cially strong. Three of the four goals were rush goals, and Wisconsin has some guys that can finish plays. 
"We did play well defensively in that series and we have to keep that up over the last part of the season." 
Notre Dame has already faced Bowling Green this sea­son, losing to the Falcons 3-1 on Nov. 4 and tying 4-4 on Nov. 
5. That tie was perhaps the best offensive output all season for the Irish. with the team putting 54 shots on net against goalie Jordan Sigalet. 
The four goals are also a sea­son high. 

"This is a team that we've had 50 shots at against this year, and that's the kind of effort it's going to take against one of the top goaltenders in the country," Poulin said. 
Notre Dame faces off against Bowling Gn~en Friday at 7:05 
p.m. in Bowling Green, and Saturday at 7:05 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S TRACK 
No. 11 Irish continue non-conference tune ups for Big East 
Center. in which events they will excel. injuries from cross country. In her own school record, one
By RYAN KIEFER 
Notre Dame hopes to build Notre Dame made adjustments addition to the action on the which she hopes to break this 
Sports Writer 
on the momentum from last in its lineup entering last track, the field events are cer­season. The field events will weekend's dominating per­weekend's meet, and the team tain to draw attention this begin Saturday's meet at 10:30 
The Notre Dame women's formance in which Irish ath­plans to do much of the same weekend, especially in the high a.m., with running set to begin track team has been on a quest letes won 10 of 15 events at this week. jump competition. Stacey at 2 p.m. in its initial meets this season. the Notre Dame Indoor Opener. "We will be shuffling some Cowan's clearing of 5 feet, 10 
This quest has been to devel­The competition this week is people," Connelly said. "Some inches last weekend left her Contact Ryan Kiefer at op an identity as a team, an expected to be of a similar cal­of our athletes will be running just an inch and a half short of rkiefer@nd.edu identity, which the team hopes, iber, according to coach Tim events they don't normally run. will carry the label "Big East Connelly. For example, Stephanie Madia Champion" by the end of the "We expect good competition will be running the 800 this season. With the indoor confer­in some events, in particular week, even though we'd nor­ence meet still weeks away, the the 800-meter, but we realize mally place her in the 3K or Irish will focus on Astablishing that in other events, our ath­5K. She'll be getting some this identity this weekend at letes' main competition will be speed work," the Notre Dame Invitational. their teammates," he said. Connelly also said it was dif­
The No. 11 Irish according to Part of developing the identi­ficult to say when exactly the Trackwire.eom, will host sever­ty of a track team is determin­team would have its official al schools including Butler, ing early in the season in lineup, as key distance run­Loyola (Chicago), DePaul and which events athletes will par­ners, including All-American Marquette Saturday at Loftus ticipate and more importantly, Molly Huddle, are still nursing 
MEN'S TRACK 
Runners prepare for Invitational 
By JOHN EVERETT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will take to the track Saturday in the annual Notre Dame Invitational. The Irish men will be competing against runners from Marquette, DePaul, Loyola, Butler and Michigan State. The meet is another event designed to prepare the Irish for the Meyo Invitational on Feb. 4 and 5, which is seen as the first big meet of the season. Notre Dame has proven itself in other preparatory events, which has head coach Joe Piane excited heading into the Invitational. 
"This will be a pretty good event, the men's 800-meters and hurdle races should be good, and the 3,000-meter race should be excellent," Piane said. 
The 3,000-meters is expected to be a compelling race, consid­ering the depth the Irish pos­sess in distance runners. 
The Irish distance squad, fea­turing runners such as Kurt Benninger, who won the mile at last week's meet, and freshman 800-meter runners Brett Adams and Jake Watson, will be a large factor. 
However, other schools will prove to be a challenge consid­ering the squad from Butler fin­ished fourth at the NCAA Cross Country Championships, and that Michigan State has Steve Sherer, an All-American, run­ning in the race. 
In the hurdle races, the Irish will look to Selim Nurudeen, who has already turned in sev­eral outstanding performances in this young indoor season. 
Piane stated he was very pleased with the way the season was turning out. 
"Things are coming along well, when you realize that most of our guys have only run at one meet," he said. "Right now our goal is to get guys qualified for the Big East [Indoor Championships]." 
Contact John Everrett at jeverett@nd.edu 


INCOME TAX PREPARATION 
203 S. Ironwood Drive South Bend, IN 46556 E-mail: Dan.Osberger@Comcast.Net 
hiday, January 28, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
No. 21 Irish l~ok to bounce back on road trip 
By ANN LOUGHERY 
Sports Wrir~r 
True, last weekend's loss to No. 14 Northwestern may have left Notrn Damn a little rattled. 
But morn than anything, it inc.rnasnd tlwir rnsolvn to prove just how much potential they possess. 
"We wnrP a little bit out of' racing pradir.e," Irish eoach Tim Welsh said. "It took us sonw time to gnt back in the c.ompPlitiv11 spirit. But now we know what we need to do to win this wPekend. and we're rnady to win." 
/\!though tho No. 21 Irish (6­21 enjoyed tlwir shan~ of' sue­t'f'SS last WOPkend, lfw l!Hllll also took a numl>l'r of' lessons away from tlw 1~ornpntition. .I unior Tim Handolph nrnpha­siztHI what a enwial roln inten­sity plays in winning a nu~e. 
"Wiwn you race, you just havP to know that you can't giv1~ up 01111 inch to tlw competition. no rnatlt•r how long tlw race is or who you're going up against," Handolph said. 
Notrf' Damn will takn that hardnosnd attitude on the road this W11ehnd, l'adng Cleveland Statn (7-21 and Canisius (0-Sl today at 4:30 p.m. and St. Bonaventure (6-3) Saturday at 12 p.m. 
Last weekend, host Notre Dame fell to Northwestern (4-41 in a 1(J 3 . 5-1 34. 5 decision. i\lthough the Wildcats broke four pool records, they were unable to socure the win until tho last ovnnt. 
Notre Dame defeated the Wildeats 2S-S in tlw two diving nvnnts. Sophomore Seott Coyle bested 
Northwestern junior Mike Oxman oiT of both boards, giv­ing tho Irish valuable points tlwy nnmled in the liereoly eon­tns tl'd meet. 
The Irish also took at least two or tlw throe top places in 10 of' the 14 individual events. Sophomorn Tim Kegelman, who ranks fifth in Division I this sea­son in tho I00-yard f'ly. gar­twrl'd the only two swimming vietorins for the Irish with a limn of I minutn, 52.2S seconds in the 200-yard lly and 49.2S in tho I00-yard fly. 
Clnvnland State will also bring a talent-ladnn loam to thn pool today. Tlw Vikings are on a six­mnnt winning streak and led by snnior divnr Thatchnr Carr, snn­ior buttnrf'lyer Thatcher Carr and junior backstroker l'ietnr Peiser. 

Carr, who qualified for the NCAA Championships in 2001 and 2002 while at Navy, has already gained recognition this year for breaking the 1-meter dual record in his first meet with the Vikings with a score of 
349.40 points. 
Han ked No. 50 in the 100­yard butterlly and No. 89 in the 200-yard butterlly, the senior looks to be one of Kegelman's greatest challenges. Tnammatn Peiser has broken school rncords in both the 100-and 200-yard backstroke this sea­son and is tied for 38th in the nation in the 100 and 44th in the 200. Notre Damn's other competition today will come from tho Goldnn Griffins of Canisius, who arc looking for thnir first win in morn than two seasons after nearly beating lona in Dncnmbnr 12S-70. 
St. Bonaventurn will provn to bn Notre Damn's biggest threat this weekend. Thn Bonnies are ranked lirst in thoir confnrnnec and 50th in the nation, boasting national rankings in the 400 free (44th), SOO free (45th) and 400 medley (48th). 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

Patrick Davis swims In the Notre Dame Invitational In December. The Irish have two meets this weekend. 
ND WoMEN's SWIMMING 
Swimmers excited for rematch with No. 13 Michigan 
By MIKE TENNANT 
Spnns Wri~t·r 
The No. 21 Irish find thmn­SPivns in familiar watnrs today as tlwy tntvnl to i\nn i\rbor for a latn-snason showdown with No. I:~ Michigan. 
This wneknnd will bn the third limn the Irish will sec the Wolverinns in the month of .January. Both tnams also trav­nlnd to the Caribbf~an for their wintor training trips. 
The Wolvnrinns beat out the Irish at thn St. Lucia Invitational on .Jan. 2, outscoring Notre l>amn 209-170 en rout to a first place finish. '1\vo weeks ago, the Wolvnrinns wnre in South Bend 
January 
Men's Hockey vs. Bowling Green 7:05p.m. Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
•First 500 fans receive Trading Cards of the 
Irish Juniors sponsored by Chevy! 
Chevrolet 
11
•Stick around after the 
game to get autographs from the Irish Juniors! 

as part of a t.ripln dual rnvolving I 72 victory over thP JJJini two Illinois. Notre Damn only scored w1~oks ago. against Illinois. Meanwhile, Michigan is com­
llownvnr, head coach Bailny ing olT a tough loss to No. 23 Wnathers dons Northwestern, its not see the two first Big Ten dual tnams' familiari­"We've got a lot of meet loss since ty making a dif­2002.
kids who are going
fernnce this "I think they're weekend. to swim well. " going to be ready "I don't think for us," Weathers it's an advantage said.
Bailey Weathers 
or disadvan­Leading the Irish
Irish coach 
tage," Weathers into Ann Arbor will said. "Our girls be record-breaking know we worked diver Meghan just as hard as they did on the Perry-Eaton. The All-American training trip." fifth-year senior was named 
Tho Irish have had the last 2003 and 2004 Big East week ofT after an exciting final Championships Most relay gavn Notre Dame a 175-Outstanding Diver. Against Illinois, Perry-Eaton set rocords on back-to-back days, giving her all four records at Notre Dame's Holt's Aquatic Center. She has won 14 of the 15 events she cntornd this season. 
Sophomorn EIIPn Johnson took first place in the 100-meter backstroke at St. Lucia, boating out Michigan's NCAA qualifier Kaitlyn Brady. 
The 400-meter freestyle rehiy team of Carroll, Grove, Ellen Johnson, and Bouvron won their event in the Caribbean over their Wolverine counter­parts by more than a full sec­ond. 
In South Bend, the 400-yard freestyle team of Carroll, both Johnson's, and Grove beat the 
Sunday, January 30th January 29th 
Men's Basketball vs. #10 Track and 
#13 UCONN Field 
3:45p.m. Joyce Center Carolina Notre Dame 
•This game sponsored by 
2p.m. Invitational 
Papa John's and one lucky fan Eck Tennis will win pizza for a year! 



•One lucky fan will win a free I phone and a year of service from Centennial Wireless! 
All three of these events are •Project Playground Gold Games! performing at halftime! The first 1 00 fans to each event will 
receive a Gold Games t-shirt ~ sponsored by ~ South Bend Orthopaedics! 


JJJinois tnam by .0(> seconds to win tho dual for tho Irish. 
"We have got a lot of' kids who arc going to swim wtdl," Weathers said. "Wn'rn all vory rnady to swim." 
i\ftnr this wockond, the Irish have one final meet against Oakland in Hoehostor. Mieh, before tho Big 1\ast Championships. 
"They're looking at tlw Michigan meet as a stopping stone for the Big East !Championships). They under­stand tho dual moot is part of' the process or preparing for tho Big East !Championships!. just likn the Big East is part of the process for tho NCA/\ !Championships!," Woath1~rs said. 
The swimming will start tonight at(> p.m. 
Contact Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 
Poker Chips from $4.95/50 Texas Holdem from $199.97 Poker Tables from $299.00 
Rentals Available 

Large 
Selection 
of Game 
Tables, 
Supplies 
and Table 
Toppers. 

"'811~10 


50510 St. Rd. 933N • South Bend 

574-272-1617 
t~-.­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 28, 2005 
UConn 
continued from page 20 
tougher than when Notre Dame faced them on Jan. 12. · 
Back from injury is leading scorer and second team All-Big East performer Barbara Turner, who averages 12.4 points per game. Not far behind Turner in the scoring column is li~llow junior Ann Strother. The 6-foot-2 guard averages 12.1 poinl<; per game on 
39.1 percent shooting from beyond the are. 
Conneeticut has found another source of offense in freshman Charde Ilouston. In just 19 min­utes per game, the freshman is averaging 11.8 points and 4.9 rebounds, and shoots 56.5 per­cent from the field. llouston was the Big East's Freshman of the Week the past two weeks after a 25-point performance against Texas. Houston gave Notre Dame problems during the last matchup, as she scornd 19 points on 8-for-15 shooting, which com­plemented her five rebounds, three steals and thrf~e blocks. 
The Huskies are the No. 1 team in the Big East conference, mak­ing this game especially important for the Irish, who sit in fourth place, behind Connecticut, Boston College and Rutgers, after Wednesday's win over St. John's. 
"Nobody's really given them a game in the Big East," McGraw said. "They've been dominant in the Big East. They're the team to beat again, the No. 1 team, and they'r~. playing with a lot of confi­dence. 


Notre Dame escaped Wednesday against St. John's after coming back from a 35-31 halftime deficit to win 72-65. All­American Jacqueline Batteast said Notre Dame needs to play better defense if it wants to deal the Huskies their first conference loss. 
"I think it starl<; with defense," Batteast said. "It's been that way the whole season -the better defense we've played, the better offense we've had. So we can't go out there and try to outscore UConn, because that's not going to happen, so we really need to work on our defense right now -the offense, it will come." 
Sunday's game is at the Hartford Civic Center. whieh is not only Connecticut's home court, but also the site of the Big East Tournament. McGraw knows the Huskies always draw a tough crowd. 
"Certainly playing in their build­ing, they'll be playing with even more [confidence]," McGraw said. "They know that they can beat us badly at our place, and so they fig­ure, I'm sure, that the same thing is going to happen up there." 
Tipoff is set for 7 p.m. Sunday on ESPN2. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Bayliss 
continued from page 20 

ways to go iri doubles, but we're better than we were a year ago, and we're making some progress." 
The doubles point is of par­ticular concern for Bayliss. 
"We certainly are concerned about all our doubles," he said. "Getting to the level of teams we're going to be playing now, that's not going to be good enough." 
North Carolina will provide Notre Dame with its biggest test in the season so far. 
"North Carolina is a very well-balanced team with a lot of aggressive baseliners who really, really make you play," Bayliss said. "They play great doubles -I think the match Saturday is going to be very hotly contested and a great match." 
The team has worked to pre­pare for the talent that the Tar Heels will bring to the match. 
"I had a chance to watch them practice a little bit," Bayliss said. "They really do hit their ground strokes with authority." 
Sunday's match will not prove any easier, as Bayliss calls the Seminoles a potential top-20 team "loaded with tal­ent." 
The team did not change their practiee strategy, although Bayliss and his play­ers are foeused on the impor­tant weekend ahead. 
"We tried to keep the prac­tices a little more compact and specific knowing that we've got two very, very tough teams back to back," Bayliss said. 
The team is also sponsoring a dorm challenge event, where dorms with the most students coming to matches will receive a prize. This weekend, Seigfried, Pasquerilla West. and Lewis will be the dorms competing at Saturday's match, with Knott, Pasquerilla East and Welsh Family vying for the prize on Sunday. 
Hegardless of the contest, however, fans this weekend can expect to see a high cal­iber of play at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
"We're healthy, everyone's looked good in practice, there's no reason to think we won't play well," Bayliss said. ''I'm excited because I know we've come a long way, and we either need to learn that we've really achieved a lot or fmd out what we need to do to get bet­ter -and we're going to find out." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Duals 
continued from page 20 
However, both Penn State and Ohio State come armed with two titlists each. Penn State comes with 2002 and 2003 men's foil champion Nonpatat Panchan and 2003 women's epee champ Katarzyna Trzopek competing for the Nittany Lions. 
Twins 
continued from page 20 
"Winning the doubles point makes it easier," captain Sarah Jane Connelly said. "But even though we have the talent to do it, we are still going to have to focus." 
Playing No. 1 for the Irish will be sophomores Catrina and Christian Thompson. They will face the No. 33-ranked team of Karin Coetzee and Ashlee Davis. 
At No. 2 for the Irish will be 
freshman Brook "Ranking doesn't ing Wednesday 
Buck and junior night's meet against
mean anything

Lauren Connelly. Michigan. Junior Kiki because anybody "Everyone is really Stastny and competing. Girls
can upset

Sarah Jane have been down and 
anybody."

Connelly will be have been able to playing at No. 3 comeback [in the and are coming Sarah Jane Connelly past couple of ofT an impressive matches]," Connelly 
Irish captain 

win over Michigan's Elizabeth Exon and Nina Yaftali. 
In singles, No. 69-ranked Catrina Thompson will be playing No. 1 for the Irish. She will be fol­lowed by No. 85-ranked Buck. 
Playing No. 3 for the Irish will be Christian Thompson. The rest of the line-up includes Lauren Connelly, Stastny and Donohue. 
Although the Irish will be head­ing into the match with a higher ranking over Wake Forest, Notre Dame is not taking the contest too lightly. 
"They may be ranked 30th, but Competing for Ohio State will be foilist Boaz Ellis and sabre Adam Crompton, who also won in 2003. 
In fact, the only defending NCAA champion not competing in the event is men's epeeist medalist Arpad Horvath of St. John's. 
The Notre. Dame Duals will also feature ne~ equipment that has also altered the way matches are scored and approached. The International 
at the top of their lineup are tough. They will be in the top-20 before the end of the season." 
Donohue agreed to not under­estimate the talented Wake Forest. 
"Ranking doesn't mean any­thing because anybody can upset anybody," she said. 
However, after achieving wins over Ohio State and Michigan, Sarah Jane Connelly has full con­fidence in the team's capabilities. 
This confidence stems from three players who were able to comeback from early deficits in their matches and secure the win dur­
said. "But we have 
to know that we can't take anything lightly. We can't look at rankings because everyone is tough and everyone is out to get us." 
But, if the match comes down to the last point, Donohue is con­fident in Notre Dame's ability to achieve the victory because of how encouraging the team is towards each other. 
"We are so supportive of each other, especially when you're the last match out there. So it is great to know that your team is there for you," she said. 
Fencing Association (IFAl recently made changes to the way points are scored, short­ening the interval of time that double points can be scored to 35 hundredths of a second. Also, the IFA lengthened the period of time that a foil must be pressed into an opponent's body to count as a point. As scoring is electronic, the new equipment, which was just installed over winter break, are calibrated to be sensitive to these new specifications. 
Because of these new rule changes, the Irish have been working extensively on tech­niques that will help them adjust to the new regulations. 
"The kids have had problems adjusting to the new situa­tion," Bednarski said. "But we've done lots of technical work, [and] it's a good idea because it's not easy to change machines." 
Despite the changes and the 

Visa@ Credit u'll enjoy a est rate, and alfee. 
on, you can r current 
toughness of their competition, the Irish are eager to test themselves against the best teams out there, both familiar and not. 
"We know the value of Ohio [State]." Bednarski said. "Now it's another rival [Penn StateI. who is close to national cham­pion, and we want to see how strong they are." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
0 

, and make NOTRE DAME yments. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
they are definitely a top-20 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org
team," coach Jay Lauderback Contact Dan Tapetillo at 
olllle

said. "They are deep and the kids jtapetil@nd.edu 
-------~---------.,----,------------------------------------------~~---­
Friday, January 28, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
DILBERT 
HEY I I GOT A RESPONSE FROM THE NEWSPAPER COLUMNIST I REAMED FOR MISUSING THE WORD "DONGLE." 

PEANUTS 
FO~W-THREE. AND NINE.AND TWENTY-SIX, AND TI·HRTEEN, AND FIFT'{-SEVEN .. JlMM .... 
"DEAR NUTBAG ... LINK TO A DICTIONARY ... " 
UM ... OOPS ... IT APPEARS THAT I WAS WRONG. 
'(ES, MA'AM .. WELL, ALL I CAN SAY 15... 

SCOTT ADAMS 
PLAN B: I ACCUSE HIM OF HATING 

MINORITIES. 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

JJW/OOW1JK
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, What's 11 going to be? to form four ordinary words. 
CINEW 
rJ 
1 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~i~fl 
tURKEEB I
] (J 
www JUrnble.com 
IREECCO j
rJ r 

1 1 
Print ~here: rI I JrI IIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: LEGAL PAGAN INLAID AERATE Answer: The baldheaded friends had a difficult time doing this-"PARTING" 

KNITTE:l? WITH A C-OMPLEX ?TITc..H. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Linchpins 
Insistence on 34 Comment from precise a high chair standards 
35 Moon, to a poet
7 Matured nest eggs? 

36 Be in tune 13 Game played to 40 Position in a 5,000 points rock band 14 Antique storage 44 Pussyfoot cabinet for food around? 16 Looks 45 How-do-you­17 Open 
dos 18 Danger to 47 Having nice 
divers lines 19 Cashew, e.g. 48 Weed killer? 21 de coeur 49 Precursors of 
22 Classical septet suits 
24 Topic for Portia 51 Part of an order 25 "And so?" 52 Judgment Day 26 Inclined 53 Travel guide? 
28 The old college 55 Soaking
cheer 56 Lost

29 Have a loan from 58 Not stag 
30 It enters things 60 Permit 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Summer Olympian 
62 Minnesotan 
63 Longtime Disney exec 
DOWN 1 Capital of French Polynesia 2 Pull out, as braids 3 "The Facts of Life" actress 4"Mylife_ 
open book" 5 Play, in a way 6 Passe-partout 7 Can opener 8 Somebody nice 9 One loved by 
Hercules 10 Org. of 1861 11 Galley 12 Conceal 13 Gallic Wars 
chronicler 15 Ones making 
lots of charges 20 _-Ia-Ia 23 Fly swatter 25 It's solid blue in 
pool 27 Hike en masse 29 Others in 
Oaxaca 31 Security Council 
veto 33 Kind of story 36 Intrigue 

WILLSHORTZ 

37 Work done on  42 Ceres to the  50 Locale in  
a collapsible  Greeks  Exodus  
table  43 Winter  53'Way to go  
38 Must  Olympian  54 Hazards a  
39 Ring for openers?  46 Bit of finan. planning  guess 57 Edge  
40 Computer tap  49 _de Jouy  59 Northernmost  
41 Come back to  (upholstery  city of ancient  
life  fabric)  Palestine  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON TillS DAY: Mimi Rogers, 49; Alan eumming. 
40; Bridget Fonda, 41: Cris Collinsworth, 46 
Happy nirthday: YouL·an finally gel down to husincss and leap into the fulllrc. There is no time lO waste lollygagging around. You may huvc some wonderful inventions, hut thinking ahoul them and putting them into play are two very different scenarios. You've got the energy: now muster up the confidence ami go all the way to victory this year. Your numhers arc 1. I 9, 21. 15, .16. ·41 
ARIES (March 21-AIJri119): This is not the lime lo make waves with people 
who can affect your future. Do whatever you have to do ami gel on with it. Being accommodating can lead to getting what you want. **" TAlJRlJS (Apri120-May 20): You ~an make some very crudalmoves today 
that will enahle you to accomplish something really important to you. Forget ahout what has happened and focus on what you can do. ***** GEMINI (May 21-.Junl' 20): You may want to take note or what others arc 
telling you today. Not listening will rcsuli in making a mistake that yout·:m'l alter. Don't get angry: just he careful how you handle things. ** . CANCER (June 21-July 22): Partnerships may have a different spin to them 
today. Ohserve what others do and you will t>e much more inclined to make lht• 
right choice. Help will he offered if you need it. •••• 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make a change that will equate to making 
more money or giving you more of a positive challenge. You will he ahlc to make personal improvements as well as nurture your Jove life.*** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Not a good day to let your heart rule your head. You will be set off by comments or criticism. Keep in mind that sometimes an outsider can see your situation more clearly than you can. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take the route you believe is most likely to help you avoid conflict. Something may be going on behind your back. Rely on yourself and keep an eye on everyone else. ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Fonn alliances with anyone who can contribute to your future. Consider changing your direction or trying something new. lJse your creative attributes in order to get ahead. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't blow it by being too pushy or telling everyone what you think. Aggressive action will lead to trouble. Put your energy into something concrete that will bring good results.** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Go after what you want. Love and romance are in a high cycle. The more you do to please someone you care ahout, the more you will get in return. Travel will lead to knowledge. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A little time spent sorting through your belongings, having a garage sale or putting a little effort into your home will pay off. You'll feel better about your life and your future. *** PISCES (l<'eb. J9-March 20): Keep a close eye on what everyone else is up to. Someone may try to set you up or bring you down. Do your best, but don't let anyone take you for granted. Change may he inevitable. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have the drive, determination and dedication to get things done. Your incentive is to be the best that you can be. You will never settle for anything less than the best. You are a perfectionist. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugcnialast.com. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City ____________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE 0 BSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, January 28, 2005 
page 20 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Time for redemption 
No. 9 Connecticut used a win over the Irish earlier this year to turn around its season 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
No. 9 Connecticut saved its sea­son Jan. 12, when it beat Notre
.­
Dame 67-50 at home. Senior Ashley Battle called it a "turning point" at the time, and that it has been. 
Since that game, the Huskies have been red-hot. winning four straight, including a 73-57 defeat of No. 15 Texas and three straight Big East wins, leaving them unde­feated in the conference. 
Sunday, No. 6 Notre Dame (17­3, 5-2 Big East) looks to end this winning streak as the Irish travel to Hartford to face Connecticut for the second time in less than a month. 
"They're on a roll right now," Irish eoach Mullet McGraw said. "I think we put them on a roll. The win over us really got their eontidence back." 
The lost eonfidence came after the Huskies (13-4, 6-0 Big East) dropped four of their first 12 games, losing at No. 12 North Carolina and Arizona State and losing at home to No. 11 Michigan State and No. 5 Tennessee. 
And Connecticut will be even 

Irish forward Jacqueline Batteast attempts a shot over Purdue's Erin Lawless on Jan. 16. The see UCONN/page 18 Irish look to avenge their loss earlier this season to Connecticut on Sunday. 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Bayliss is ready fora challenge 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
Thrashing their way to a 4-0 start, the Irish arc ready for some tougher competition ­and this weekend's matches against No. 18 North Carolina and No. 41 Florida State will provide just that. 
Top teams? Of course. But coach Bobby Bayliss is ready for a challenge. 
"I feel pretty good about our team," he said. "I think we've grown and its time to take on a big challenge and it's here -so let's get it on." 
After compiling a 4-0 record, including last weekend's wins over Indiana and Wisconsin, the team is seasoned and making the in-season adjustments nec­essary to success. 
"We had two matches over the weekend, so the first thing we did was to make sure we had a day off and kind of regrouped," Bayliss said. "I was pretty pleased with the singles last weekend, and we've still got a 
see BAYLISS/page 18 

FENCING 
Ohio State and Penn State come to Duals 
13-team field set to face offat the JACC 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
First looks, second chances and three national title con­tenders are descending on South Bend. 
The Irish have a very busy and important weekend ahead of them, as they compete against Northwestern, Penn State and top-ranked Ohio State. The Buckeyes topped both the women's and men's teams last weekend at the NYU duals. 
In addition to these teams, a host of other combatants in a 13-team field will be filling the JACC this weekend to face the Irish and each other in the Notre Dame Duals which beings Saturday at 8 a.m. 
Both Irish squads will be try­ing to answer for their defeats from last weekend, including a 14-13 thriller between the women's squads. 
"We would like to get revenge and try to beat them on the women's side and improve our performance on the men's side," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
The Duals will feature more than a season's worth of NCAA individual champions who will look to defend their claim to their 13 collective titles. Three of these champions, senior foilist Alicj a Krczalo, senior epeeist Kerry Walton and sophomore sabre Valerie Providenza, will be competing for the Irish, giving the squad more individual titlists than a:ny of their competitors. 
see DUALS/page 18 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish set to face No. 30 Wake Forest 

By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

This Sunday, the No. 21 Irish (2-1) are looking to avenge last season's 7-0 loss to currently ranked No. 30 Wake Forest (2­
0). 
To achieve this feat, Notre Dame is looking to start the meet strong. 
"After last season's loss, we know they are going to be tough," junior Liz Donohue said. "So we are going to have to make the most of our home­court advantage and play like we have nothing to lose." 
The Irish are hoping to set the tone early in the contest by win­ning the crucial doubles point. 
see lWINS/page 18 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK
HOCKEY 
MEN'S TRACK
MEN'S SWIMMING

U) I.LI 
At Michigan,

(. 1--(.) At Cleveland State, 
Notre Dame Invite, 
Notre Dame Invite,
At Bowli~ Green,
z Today, 4:30 p.m. 
Today, 6 p.m. 
Tonight, :05 p.m. 
Saturday, 4:30 p.m. 
Saturday, 4:30 p.m. 

Notre Dame travels to Ann 
The No. 11 Irish will play

Despite sitting in last place 
Kurt Benninger leads the

a: ::3 
Arbor for a late season show-
The No. 21 Irish go on the 

in the CCHA, Notre Dame 
host to Butler, Loyola 
Irish into this weekend's
c:J 

down with No. 13 Michigan.
road to face Cleveland State 

still has a chance of making 
(Chicago), DePaul and 
meet.
c:c 
and Canisius today at 4:30 

the postseason with 10 games 
Marquette this weekend at 

= a. =c 
remaining in the season. 
Loftus.
p.m. 

page 17 
page 16
page 17 

page 16 
page 16 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 28, 2005 
Survival necessary during tough 4-game stretch 
Treading water. 
Playing the hand you're dealt. 
Surviving. 
Call it what you want, 
that's what the Irish have to do during the next four games. 
Their postseason hopes hang in the bal-

Matt Lozar
ance. The 
Sports Writer 
schedule looked daunting when released in September, now it looks out­right frightening: No. 19 Connecticut. No.4 Syracuse, No. 8 Boston College and No. 20 Pittsburgh -alter­nating home and away-in 14 days. 
The Irish have four games, against teams with a com­bined 62-9 record. to deter­mine what typ~ of team they are. 
"Going up against some of the top teams in the nation, it shows you where you're at as a basketball team," Chris Quinn said. "We have to take it one game at a time, stay focused and go from there." 
If the Irish can tread water-by going 2-2 ­they'll be 14-7 and 6-5 in the Big East with two very, very good wins over teams that aren't only going to qualify for the NCAA tour­nament, but are legitimate contenders to be playing on the second weekend. 
Anything better is cause for celebration. Anything worse, we'll get to that later. 
Now for the reason this murderer's row of oppo­nents even exists. 
It is and it isn't Notre Dame's fault they have this upcoming stretch. 
Mike Brey's success in South Bend has resurrected the program from the dark days of the 1990s. Now, national television can count on seeing the Notre Dame name with a competi­tive team against anyone in the country and that obvi­ously brings ratings. 
However, no one expected Boston College to be this good. And it really isn't fair when you see the Irish play­ing Syracuse, Connecticut and Pittsburgh twice every sea­high after a great win, and we can't get too low after a disappointing loss," Brey said. "I think that's how this group is, they've been pretty good, and that's how we're going to have to be." 
But of all the things the Irish must do during the next two weeks, the most important one might be sur­viving. 
Not just surviving on the scoreboard, but off the court as well. 
If the Irish win only one of the next four, or put up a disappointing goose egg, 
doubts will 
start to 

son. Look at "Going up against appear. Those Villanova and doubts won't
some ofthe top 
Georgetown, just stay in
teams in the nation 
two teams bat­seats at the tling the Irish shows you where Joyce Center, for the last living rooms
you're at as a 
spots in the around the
basketball team. " 
NCAA tourna­country or ment from the dorm rooms Big East. Chris Quinn on campus. 
Georgetown's It's perfectly
Irish guard 
easy two-time opponents are Hutgers and St. John's while Villanova gets Seton llall and Providence. Notre Dame's two easy teams are, yup, you guessed it -Villanova and Georgetown. 
It's especially unfair come March, when you have to compare their conference record not only in the Big East but also across confer­ences for postseason berths. 
Look at last season for evidence: Notre Dame was 9-7 in the Big East and received a NIT bid. UTEP was 13-5 in the Western Athletic Conference and earned a No. 13 seed in the NCAA tournament. 
Fair or not, Brey has come to accept it. His team knows how to deal with it. 
"When you get into this stretch, you can't get too logical to 
think those doubts will linger in the Irish locker room. 
All the Irish have to do is think back to last season when it took them until game No. 20 to get that first big win. Three wins eight days later put the Irish squarely on top of the proverbial bubble. 
Everyone knows what happened on Selection Sunday. 
Four games, four top 20 opponents, 14 days. 
Scary-yes. 
Impossible -no. 
Survival -vital. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Lazar at mlozar@nd. edu 


The Irish start a stretch of four games in 14 days against top-20 opponents Sunday when they host Connecticut. 
PosT PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 
A big focus in the olf­Simply put, Francis This is the mystery The Irish need thisBrey has been strug­se~son was to play bet­and Latimore are strug­Thomas has learned

LLI 
game. They haven't
gling to find what line­

area for the Irish.
ter defense, and the 

gling. Neither of them the art of managing a
:E 
played well in big
ups and rotations Carter's athleticism

low-seoring games are can get in a rhythm for game. Falls is the best

<( 
work for this deep 

will help with the games at the JACC, so 
a result of that. 

40 minutes or carry the in the conference from
0 

quick UConn back­
confidence has to beIrish squad. In these Usually, Brey likes his Irish when the 3-point behind the arc. Quinn is

LLI 
types of games, Brey court. Cornett has suc­

an issue. A national
team to score 80 points 

shooting goes cold. 
struggling to play well
a:: 
likes experienced cess in the past. 

television win to start
..... 
a game, but this team Cornett shutdown the consistently. This areaplayers and shorten­

Latimore is athletic, 
this difficult four-game 
0 
is struggling from the Huskies twice last year, is Notre Dame's depth but has been frustrat­stretch would do a loting his bench to seven

z 
inside to do that con­so he could sneak into and it must play well. 

or eight. 

ingly inconsistent. 
for the team's psyche. 
sistently. 

the rotation. The Huskies have 
The one player the 
young post players in The Huskies don't
..... 

Irish have to contain isCalhoun had to deal 
The Huskies have 
~ 
Not surprisingly, the Boone and Villaneuva, want to lose their thirdAnderson. He can come nine players averaging 

with the loss of two
(.) 
Huskies lead the Big 

but the two of them 
game this early in thejuniors to the NBA and into the game and make double-digit minutes,

i= 
East in scoring per 

have unlimited poten­
Big East schedule.
(.) 
a highly-recruited two 3-pointers in 30 

and all nine will get Calhoun always has hisgame. They are notori­tial. Both are close to
LLI 

seconds. Kellogg has into the game on
freshman to illness. 
ous for trying to get out 

averaging a double­
team at the top of the
z 

scored 12 total points in Sunday. Calhoun needs
This team is young,
z 
Big East by the end ofand run. Sunday will double and are major the last seven games. 

a deep bench to use
and Calhoun is still
0 
be no difl'erent. 

factors the Huskies 
the year, but three loss­Williams is playing well his fast-paced style. 

looking for its identity. 
CJ 

lead the conference in es would bn crippling.
at the point. 
rebounding 
Connecticut is the 


Both teams need this

best in the Big East at game. If the Irish had adefending the 3-point 
better track record of
.lihe. Sundi!;y is gpjng playing well a.t the JAC'£,
to' be a qlasp'of slg'le;s~: 
1heywould get.the odge. 
\W.hoever controls the But no om: honestly cantempo will determine say which Irish teamwho comes away with will show up Sunday.
the win. 


Friday, January 28, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Leading by example 
Jordan Cornette does the little things to keep the Irish together 
Conwtto, who had "If the team:<; sealed the Big spPnt tlw past winning, then East victory. thrnP hours in tho "Thoro's a l'ine
you're happy " 

gym and woight linn between win­
•·oom. oblignd to ning and losing, 
lwlp. Jordan Cornette as you ean see "Hnally basket­Irish senior through our sea­

Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
Cornette brings a confident presence when he is on the floor. While he has started 12 of' 17 games this season, the senior receives inconsistent playing time due to depth and rnatchup issues wilh oppo­nents. 
In the St. John's win, Cornette played 34 of' a total 40 minutes. One week later against Georgetown, he played just 22. But Cornette -whose l<~ft bicep ~attoo,,proc.lai!ns th.e mckname Jay-C -ms1sts h1s unselfishness and attitude are not unique. 
"I think I'm no diiTernnt f'rom any of the other guys on this team in terms of whether it's playing live minutes or playing 40 minutes," Cornette said. "If the te<~~n's winning, then you're happy. 
With Connecticut, Syracuse, Boston College and Pittsburgh waiting on the upcoming con­f'erenee schedule, being happy demands the obvious things ­few turnovers, strong def'onse, good shooting. But most impor­tantly, the Irish need a leader who has been through these stretehes before. 
Nothing new 
Since Jordan Cornette has averaged 3.9 points and 4.5 rebounds during his four-year career, his name often gets skipped over in discussions of players to watch. Mention lead­ership, however, and "Jay-C" seems synonymous with the term. 
"I definitely feel comfortable in that lleadershipl role," Cornette said. "From sopho­more year through I've had that type of role. So it's nothing new." 
Cornette has played on difTer­ent teams with different fates, but his attitude has remained consistent. 
In his f'reshman season, the Irish lost a near upset of' No. 1 Duke when Cornette's class­mate Chris Thomas was already seeing significant play­ing time at point guard. But a 22-11 season was sonwthing to build on, and with Cornette's minutes going up to almost 20 por game the f'ollowing 2002­03 season, the Irish went 24­10. 
Notre Dame reached the Sweet 16 ol' the NCAA tourna­ment that soason, but in 2003­04 the Irish fai!Bd to make the NCAA's, earning a bid to the National Invitation Tournament and losing in the third round to Oregon. 
Cornette, who has been a constant through the ups and downs of' a rising Notre Dame program under Broy, appreci­ated the !'an response to his team's showing last season. 
"Last year we ended up play­ing in the NIT, and a lot of' peo­ple looked at the season as a throwaway," Cornette said. "Just having those types of standards shows how far this program's eo me." 
As tho Irish make a run at returning to the Big Dance, Cornette and Thomas are the two seniors responsiblo !'or set­ting tho tone and guiding their teammatns through the mid-to­Jato soason wars that are Big East games and tournament battles. 
But Conwtte -vocal loader, loose-ball chaser and shot-blocker -is the do-it-all, self­he is constantly awarn of bPing less player that encompasses the facn and the voieo of' Notrn what being a senior is all Dame basketball in his senior about. season-and he plays like it. Identity "Your role becomos incroased 

!loading into Wednesday's in a lot of' difl'en~nt areas," hn game against Villanova, said. "You've got to be one of Cornette's 188 earner blocks the voices and a strong repn1­were 13 away sentation of the from breaking team." 
Lal'honso (1988-92)  Ellis' career  "He really knows  That is why, over the course of  
mark  at  Notre  his role and how to  his  four  years,  
Dame. "lie's abso-lute­ fit with our group. "  Cornette has learnod from tho  
ly our anchor defensively," Brny  Mike Brey  best to try and boeome thn bnst  
said. "lin does a  Irish coach  at what he dons  
great job dnfend­ -lead.  
ing. lie not only  "II  watched I  
guards his man,  Matty  Carroll,  

but a lot of times he is also who was just tho all-around guarding the othnr four guys, guy," Cornettn said. "lin just too." bred the attitudo of a winner. 
Though Conwttn has stnpped You look at maturo guys like out and knocked down the Hyan llumphrey, who are very occasional 3-pointnr as his role business-like, who know what on the team has nvolvod from it takes and who will do what-big man to swing man, he ever it takes." established his rnputation -lin continued. and maintains it -on the "Then you look at lllarold I defensive end. Swanagan, who just ... busts 
Cornette's dnfonse is indica­his butt nvnryday at practien tive of the overall intangible and givns his all to thn point hn strength he provides for the can't give anymore," he said. Irish. "Then you look at a guy like 
"We know hn ean block Torrian .Iones, who is vocal and shots," Brey said "Tho interest­always talking the tnam up." ing thing about his blocked Beginning •wxt year, players shots is they never go out of will look at Cornette -and bounds. They are always in tlwy won't need lights to sm~ play for us to pick up and go to tho example he has sl't. tho other end." 
Whother Cornetto dons this Contact Pat Leonard at conseiously pr unintentionally, pleonard@nd.edu 
By PAT LEONARD A.~snciatc Sports Editor 
.Jordan ConwttP walkod, uni­form on and right middln finger tapod. down tho hallway and into a dark .Joyce Center arena. liP had praetieod that day and liftPd weights. Now, lw would lw in front ol' tho camera. 
It was time J'or a photo shoot. Tho nowspapor JHwdod a shot ol' tho Notre Damn·snnior !'or an upcoming issue, and tho only lights in the arnna glowed across tho front of the scorer's tablo: "Big East Conl'eroncn," "Notro Damn" tlwy road. Thoy wMo words that told a story in progress. 
But tlw photographor noodod t lw main a r«~ n a lights to complotn tho day's work. 
hall hnconws your life wlwn you're horn !'or those four ynars playing ball," hn would say latPr. 
Walking casually with a smile on his facn, the snnior asknd a passing security guard to help with thn situal.ion. 
"You've bonn hero four years and you don't know how to turn the lights on," thn security guard jnnn~d. 
"I'vn nevnr had to," Cornntte said. "They're always on when we eomn in." 
llow appropriate that Cornetto did not know, consid­oring the lights are never pointed his way. 
llow ironic that the senior could not do the simple task himself'. During the course of' the past !'our years, his eoachos have asked him to do every­thing olso. 
The little things 
When the buzzer sounded on Notre Dame's 67-66 win over St. John's Jan. 15, Jordan Cornette l'inished with nine points, seven rnbounds, f'our assists, three blocks and one stoal. 
One ol' tho blocks -a last­
soeond swat ol' Hod Storm guard Daryll llill's potential gam<~-winnor ­
son so far," 
Cornette said. 
"Thoro are going to be close games, and it's going to eome down to ... mak­ing the right dneision at the nnd and grabbing that loose ball." 
What makes this sonior so valuable to the Irish, his eoaeh said, is his knowledge and desire to do both. 
"lie really knows his role and how to fit in with our group," 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 28, 2005 
Free throw line becoming just that for the Irish 
Big East leaders have seen the importance in conference play 
By MATT LOZAR 
Sports Wrirer 
They're called free throws for a reason. The Irish are taking full advan­tage of that generosity. 
Sitting at the top of the Big East, and in the best 10 percent of the country with a 7 4. 7 free throw percentage, the Irish have kept themselves in games with their success from the stripe. 
That mark improves to 82.1 percent when only Big East games are factored into the equa­tion. 
Likewise, it's been an even big­ger factor in their conference play. 
Go back to the home win over Villanova. The Irish made all 19 of their free throws en route to a 78-72 victory over the Wildcats. 
Then move forward to the St. John's game where in trying to pull the upset at the Joyce Center, the Red Storm only made 10-of­22 free throws. That inability to cash in from the line allowed the Irish to stay close and gave Chris Thomas the opportunity to make the game-winning 3-pointer. 
Yes, the Irish have a plethora of long-range shooters, so it's natu­ral to think they should be suc­cessful from the line. 
Breaking it down, it's even sim­pler. They practice it. 
"We shoot free throws at the end of every practice -make 10­of-13, make 4 in a row as a team," Thomas said. "We do it as a team because you can put your best free throw shooters up there at the end of practice, and get out of practice quickly, it's not going to benefit the team if just your best free throw shooters are up there in game situations in prac­tice." 
Thomas, Chris Quinn and Colin Falls are leading the team. Thomas shoots 
90.5 percent from the line, Quinn 85 hand checks puts Chris, Chris or Colin on the line and that's a huge weapon for us. We've got to do a better job of driving the ball and getting out big guys touches where they get fouls. 
"I know. we're leading the league, it's a weapon that we have and want to continue to use it." 
In this next stretch of high-pro­file games, later in the Big East tournament and if they qualify for the NCAA tournament, solid free-throw shooting is an overlooked aspect of college 


and Falls 93.2. "It's a weapon that basketball, but it's a With those three, we have and want weapon the Irish 
it's more of a have. 
shock when they to continue to use." Thomas brought miss. Torin up the fact that . Francis and Wake Forest hit a 3­
Mike Brey
Dennis Latimore, pointer to tie its
Irish coach 
the team's two big men with the most free throw attempts, are shooting 63.6 and 
62.1 percent -not impressive, but not bad for post players. 
Using those numbers and tak­ing a look at the box score in the loss to Georgetown has made Irish coach Mike Brey emphasize to his team to be aggressive. The Irish took 11 free throw attempts in the game, but only two in the second half. When the Irish drew a foul with 36 seconds remaining in the contest, they didn't get to the line since that was only Georgetown's fifth team foul. 
"One of the things [against Georgetown is] we didn't get to the line enough, so we weren't in the bonus at the end of the game," Brey said. "A couple of 
be the change you wont 
slam poetry on issues dealing with interrace and interfaith awareness, followed by adiscussion with the audience on the poet's experiences. 
*Symposium is first come, first serve **Valid ND, SMC, or HC id required 
game against 
Florida State with 4 
seconds remaining, and had the opportunity for a rare four-point play. As a team, the Demon Deacons had made a NCAA record 50 consecutive free throws. But Taron Downey, Wake Forest's best free throw shooter, missed. 
The Demon Deacons lost in overtime, their only conference loss this season. 
"Free throw shooting is huge for any team," Thomas said. "It's such a crucial part of the game that you can't take it for granted and have to work on it every day." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer Chris Quinn's free-throw percentage of 85 percent ranks third in the Notre Dame backcourt behind Chris Thomas (90.5) and Colin Falls (93.2). 
slom poets Kevin Covol, Bryonn Boin, ond Joson Corney 
to see n the world 
-ghandi 
race &religion symposium 
7pm-9pm in IaFortune bollroom reception to follow 
***ND Faculty and Staff welcome if space permits 

brought to you by the student union board. •ub.nd.edu 




