
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 89 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11. 2005 

Baron, Shappell win runoff election 
Leito-Bongiovanni lose by slim margin 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
A,.,iM.Hlt News Editor 
Junior Davn Baron and sophomorn Lizzi Shappnll WP n1 o f'fi ci ally nam nd nnx t ynar's studnnl body prnsidonl and vicn fll'nsidnnl af'lnr thny won Thursday's runoff nine­tin n by a sl i 111 ynl su!Tie in nl margin of 2:Ei volns. 
With a total of 4,2H7 volns cast-52.7 pnrr.Pnt of tlw studnnl body, and I 0 I morn than Monday's primary-tho Baron-ShappPII t.icknl Sf'I'Urnd 2.152 vot.<•s and !i 2 . H H porr Pnl of t.lw lota I. whilo t.lwir opponnnls. jun­iors Janws Lnito and Jordan Bongiovanni, tallind 1,917 and 47.11 pnrc11nl. 21 H st.u­d!•nts rhosn to abstain, but IHH~aus11 of a rncnnl eonstit.u­ti on al anwnd nw n t aim nd at. nnsuring a majority win in thn runoff and avoiding a thrnnfold nlnclion like last y11ar's, these votns wnrf\ not 
see ELECTION/page 6 


Student Body Presidential Runoff Election Results 
*4,287 total votes cast, 5.1% abstaining Freshman -· ··· 
51.7% 46.1% 
So homorcs 

47.9o/o  48.4o/o  
Juuiors  
52.9%  
Seniors  
42.4%  



TOTAL •do(·s not include nbsta.lned vote~ 
Student body president-elect Dave Baron and vice-pres­ident-elect Lizzi Shappell, above, garnered 235 more votes than James Leito and Jordan Bongiovanni, below. 

Silent protest raises awareness of sexual assault 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
More than 50 men and women gathered outside DeBartolo Hall Thursday after­noon in a silent protest to raise awareness of sexual assault at Notre Dame. 
The protest, titled "Project Black: Confronting tho Silence," is part of V-day, an international movement aimed at ending violHnce towards women and children. The movement spans the globe, with many colleges both in tho United States and abroad tak­ing part, protest organizer 
see PROTEST/page 4 

N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Tuition 
•

Increases 7 percent 
By KATE ANTONACCI A~socia1c News Editor 
Tho bill for undnrgradu­aln studnnls to att11nd Not.n1 Damn just. got a lit.lln stoPp­er -$2.622 st.rwpnr, to lw nxad -thanks to tho 7 pnrcnnl inernasn in tuition for tlw 2005-0ll srhool ynar. announend by thP Uniwrsit.y on Thursday. 
Combirwd total costs will lw $:~9.!i!i2, brok1111 down into $3l,!i42 for tuition and f'nns and $H,O I 0 f'or aVPragP room and board, ar.rording to a Univnrsity prnss rn lnasn. Tl111 Grad u atn Sehool, Law School and Mast.n r's of B usi rwss Administration program all had 7 pnrennt tuition incrnases as well, raising costs to $31,100 and $3l,H20, respeetivnly. 
Notre Dame presidnnt Hev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C explained to parents in a letter that the deeision to increase tuition, made at the winlnr Board of Trustees meeting, stemmed from the need to balance liseal constraint with main­taining Notre Dame's dis­tinetive place as a Cat.holie university. 
"This is decided by tho Board of Trustees and I'm surn that tho rnason is related to rnmaining com­petilivH and what the Univnrsily is abln providn in lnrms of its offerings," Dirnetor of Student Financial Snrviens .Josnph Husso said. "Wn try to stay eompelitivn with ot.lwr insti­tutions." 
A major prnsnnl.at.ion for nnxl ynar's cost. l'inanens was madn at the Board's Feb. 4 mooting. Whil11 lhnrn 
see TUITION/page H 


D'Arcy criticizes ND's support of film festival 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Ntws Wrircr 
Conlrovnrsy about tho naturn of aeadornie froodom surfaeod Thursday aflnr Bishop John 1>'!\n:y erilieized Notre Dame's sponsorship of tho Quner Film l.'nstival, sparking response from llw Notm Dame community. 
1>'!\rey, who prnsidos over the Fort Waynn-South Bond Diocese of tho Homan Cathcilic Church, wroln a letter to the South Bond Trihuno stating the festival was "an abusfl of academic frendom" and a violation of rights. 
According to D'Arey, the festi­val's organizers arn at fault for not devoting enough focus to the Church's opinions. 
"In this seminar, helq at a Catholic univHrsity, t.herf\ is no placn given to the presentation of Catholic teaching on the matter of homosexuality," he wrote. "The righL'i of others are violated." 
In addition to homosexuals, who l>'Arcy said are wronged by not 
see BISHOP/page 8 


Students prepare for apartments 
By NICOLE ZOOK Assistanr News Editor 
By about the time Sf\C­ond semester begins, most students already have a good idea their living arrangements for the m1xt school yHar. But some Saint Mary's students only recently received word of what their situation will be. 
According to Director of Hesidence Life Michelle Hussell, only about half of the more than 140 appli­
see OPUS/page 8 


Friday, February 11, 2005 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

De Bart for De Bowl 
Two words for everyone to know -DeBartolo Hall. 
Yes, everyone already knows about this building that is our largest classroom building on cam­pus. But, _my friends, I have Lukas Mendoza made a discovery that needs to be shared with the 
Photographer

rest of the world. That may only be the Notre Dame world, but that's fine by me. 
Some of you may already know about this, but I only recently dis­covered the best part of DeBartolo. What is that you ask? 
A TV output on the projectors that are installed in the classrooms equipped with media on-call. It may not sound like much, but I see it as a means to have the best place to watch sporting events on cam­pus. Just think of it: going into DBRT 101 to watch the big game, whichever that is at the time. We can have all the food down on the bottom, where professors usually lecture from. Grab your food, head back up to your seat and enjoy the game on a huge screen with 400 of your best friends. 
If no one else takes advantage of it, I certainly will. Just the other day, I caught parts of the Duke/UNC game in one of those larger class­rooms. I was in there working on a presentation for one of my classes and happened to hit the TV button. The game instantly came on, and for a moment, I was in heaven. That moment ended promptly when the other members of my group told me to turn it off because it was some sort of distraction. I honestly could not see what their problem was. 
For me, an avid sports fan, hav­ing the right place to watch the game is very important. Now, I have found that place. Although it may be the most unorthodox of places, you cannot find somewhere that has a picture and sound quali­ty quite like DeBartolo Hall. There is some very nice equipment in those rooms. 
So, next January or February, who wants to watch Super Bowl XL with me and my 400 buddies in DBRT 101? 
I'll bring the chips! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Lukas Mendoza at mmen­doz4@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE NEWSPAPER? 




IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame will present its second annual Queer Film Festival through Saturday. The event takes place all day in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts and is spon­sored by the department of film, television and theatre. 
Carole Newlands of the University of Wisconsin, Madison will give a lecture enti­tled "Lionising the Emperor: Statius, Silvae 2.5" today at 4 
p.m. in 303 Main Building. 

Actors from the London Stage will stage a performance of "Othello" tonight and Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the Peforming Arts. The event is sponsored by the department of film, television and theatre. 
Chicago Samba, a Midwest­based music ensemble that per­forms authentic Brazilian music, will perform at the Palais Royale tonight from 8 p.m. until midnight. The event is free and open to the public. It is spon­sored by the Kellogg Institute, Internatio-nal Student Services and Activities, International Study Programs, La Alaianza and WVPE 88.1 FM. 
Leocadie Mukaneza, a sur­vivor of war-torn Rwanda, will be speaking on Marian Apparitions and the Conflict in Rwanda on Sunday at 7 p.m. in 116 DeBartolo Hall. Mukaneza has spoken with the visionaries, whose apparitions have the sup­port of the local bishop. The talk is sponsored by Children of Mary. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH 39 HIGH 32 LOW 20 LOW 17 

Mark Ross  Katelyn Wood  Joe Cronin  Terriss Conterato  Dan Lavrisha  Amblyn Allen  
Junior  Sophomore  Sophomore  Senior  Junior  Senior  
Keough  LeMans  Carroll  Cavenaugh  Alumni  PW  
"The New York  "I read The  "I don't read a  "The Irish Rover  "The Cleveland  "Observer and  
Times."  Observer."  whole lot."  and Free  Plain Dealer. "  The Onion. "  

Republic articles so I can form my counter­arguments.'' 

CLAIRE KELLEYffhe Observer Graphic arts professor John Sherman presents an exhibit on the Stations of the Cross in the Malloy Hall chapel Thursday. Sherman and his daughter, Theresa Sherman, a senior theology major, designed the exhibit to demonstrate the histori­cal and present significance of the Stations. 
OFFBEAT 

Droopy-pants bill dropped 
RICHMOND, Va. Virginia lawmakers dropped their droopy-pants bill Thursday after the whole thing became just too embarrassing. 
The bill, which would have slapped a $50 fine on people who wear their pants so low that their underwear is visible in "a lewd or indecent·manner," passed the state House on Tuesday but was killed by a Senate committee two days later in a unanimous vote. 
Republican Sen. Thomas Norment said news reports implied that lawmakers were preoccupied with droopy pants. 
"I find that an indigna­tion, which dampens my humor," Norment said. 
Republican Sen. Kenneth Stolle, the committee chair­man, called the bill "a dis­traction." 
Cops pull over birthday party 

ROCK HILL, S.C. -Police fot,~nd more than they bar­gained for when they stopped aU-Haul truck with a burned-out taillight. 
Instead of furniture in the back, police on Monday found a rolling keg party with about 20 people drink­ing whiskey and beer. 
Eleven people were charged with underage drinking. 
"They all kind of froze and didn't know what to do, I guess," officer Robert Marshall said. 
The partygoers told police they rented the truck for someone's 21st birthday party because the bars were closed. The moving party was traveling streets without a particular desti­nation. 
The truck's driver first told police he was hauling a couch for a friend, accord­ing to police reports. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::J: 
!;: 
LLI 

~ 
.... 
c:r: 
(.) 


0 

.... HIGH 34 HIGH 28 HIGH 39 HIGH 42 LOW 20 LOW 20 LOW 22 LOW 28 
Atlanta 52 I 35 Boston 32 I 20 Chicago 381 24 Denver 54/ 28 Houston 61 I 46 Los Angeles 66 I 53 Minneapolis 38 I 22 New York 37/ 28 Philadelphia 40 I 28 Phoenix 68 I 53 Seattle 53 I 40 St. Louis 46 I 31 Tampa 60 I 42 Washington 43 I 29 
Friday, February I I, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Cuno describes challenges, itnportance of art tnuseutns 
Art Institute of Chicago president offers passionate views on the role of art in civic life, necessity of sharing international works 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
A~sisranr Nt•ws Fdiwr 
In his talk nntitlPd "Why Art Musn urns are Fssontial: thn Challnngns and Opportunities of l>irnrting an Art MusuPm," .lamns Cuno. prPsidnnt or thn Art lnstitulo of Chicago, oiTl~rnd insight into the rolos art. musnums play in sodnty and tlw important~(\ or shar­ing art on an intnrnational lnwl. 
"I am going to talk snriously and passionatnly about a topic which nH~ans a groat dna I to rn n: tho r cd o oI' art 
llliiSOIImS i)l rivir. lifo." Cuno said at tho boginning or thn speech. 
Cuno listed various nxpneta­tions sodnty has plaend on art musoums, beliov­ing musoums sho u I d s n r v l~ i n many capacitins including "shop­ping, dining, musical and odu­c:ational." 
"Art rnusnums a r o d i ITo ron t things to dil'l'nr­public. social institutions. 

"Likn a land trust, they sot aside things or public value a11d snnk to preserve thorn l'ornvnr," Cuno said. 
lie also compared art muse­urns to agoneies for tho pro­tection of endangered spncins. as thoy seek to pro­toct somothing vital to people. 
"Works or art arn important for thn understanding of humankind. for the under­standing or its past, present and futuro." hn said. "Like a rich natural environment. art is good for us too." 
Cuno said an incredible burden lies on an art muse­um's starr. "People who work at an art 
"Works of art are museum have the responsibility
important for the 

to choose things
understanding of 

they think are 
humankind. for the worthy of spend­ing the museum's
understanding of 

cu rrfln t money
its past, presen~. 

• on as well as and future." spending the money to pre­serve Ithese
James Cuno 

works of artl for
Art Institute of 

all of time," he 
Chicago president said. "It's an enormous responsibility." 
nnt pooplo," lw said. "Often Cuno then addressed an sitting unhappily in this mix argument he very much dis­arn tlw works or art thom­agrens with. snlvos." "Some say museums are 
For <:uno. art museums are 'identity-affirming institutes' where, if a patron does not 'see himself' in a work of art, he'll be intimidated," he said. "Nothing in my experience suggests this is true." 
Heealling his less-than-priv­ileged childhood in a military family, Cuno noted that in art museums, "nothing seemed inaccessible" to him. lie rem(~mbernd looking at and appreciating pietures of Catholic saints (though he wasn't Catholie). portraits of rich people (though he wasn't riehl and Chinese and African artifacts (though he wasn't Chinese or African). 
"Nothing was beyond my reach," he said. "Hather, I was inspired by tlHJ visual appeal lol' the object! to step outside myself and appreciate the object itself." 
For Cuno, as a young child, looking at art was a way to connect with earlier humans. 

"They, too, carnd about cre­ating and protecting beautiful and fragile things," he said. "I was, in no small way, a part of something larger." 
Thus, Cuno said, art muse­ums have the power to expand, rather than narrow our view of the world. The visitor can foeus on what unites the various cultures of the world rather than what divides them. 
Cuno expressed his frustra­tion with the growing trend for nations to ask for an end 

Center for Panos Antsaklis, Director 
260-262 Hurley Bui.lding
Applied
UNIVERSITY OF 

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-4618
NOTRE DAME 

Mathematics 
ANNOUNCEMENT 2005-2006 GRADUATE STUDENT FELLOWSHIPS 
The Center for Applied Mathematics (CAM) is pleased to announce the annual Graduate Student Fellowship competition for the 2005-2006 academic year. Each fellowship provides a nine-month stipend and some travel funds for professional travel to technical meetings. Recipients will be designated as Graduate Fellows of the Center for Applied Mathematics. 
The Center's aim is to enhance interdisciplinary use and teaching of applied mathematics. Established in August of 1987, CAM fosters University-wide interaction and collaboration and provides support for students and faculty researchers applying mathematics in a variety of disciplines spanning engineering, physical and social sciences and business. CAM provides graduate student fellowships, as well as support for workshops, seminar series and faculty visitors in interdisciplinary research areas. 
The Center strongly encourages graduate interdisciplinary research in applied mathematics, particularly in areas where mathematics is used to address application needs in engineering, science and business. The goal of these fellowships is to financially support a small number of highly qualified graduate students. Priority will be given to those applicants with demonstrated interdisciplinary interest in applied mathematics. 
To apply for these fellowships for the academic year 2005-2006, a student must submit a proposal to the Center by February 25, 2005. The proposal must describe clearly and concisely in no more than 2 pages the student's research topic, its relevance to applied mathematics and its contribution to the present state-of-the-art in a particular discipline. The proposal should also contain the following: (i) A biographical sketch of the applicant and academic transcripts. (ii) A letter of recommendation from the student's faculty advisor. (iii) Any supporting documents such as additional letters of recommendation, graduate record examination, present and previous awards, etc. Current or former fellows may also apply for a fellowship. However, student fellowships for more than two years will not be granted. The proposals will be evaluated by a panel of faculty members associated with the Center. Final selection will be made by the Center's Executive Committee and will be announced in early April. The usual Graduate School rules regarding fellowships do apply. 
Please submit proposals by Friday, February 25, 2005 to: 
Center for Applied Mathematics CAM Graduate Fellowships Attn: Ms. Lisa Tranberg 260-262 Hurley Hall Phone: 631-8660 Email: Tranberg.1 @nd.edu 


to the international trade of antiquities, saying those goods should remain in their original countries. For exam­ple, both Italy and China have recently requested that archaeological and artistie goods spanning hundreds of years of their history be bannnd from entering the United States. 
Cuno is a major believer in "partage," or the sharing or archaeological findings in order to promote internation­al unity. 
"The benefit of a museum's permanent collection is just that: it's permanent, available 

for visits throughout a life­time. Sure, some pnople could go to China to see such objects, but for what percPnt­age of U.S. citizens would that be likely'!" he asked. "Besides, tlwrn is a distinct bennfit ol' seeing these goods in thn context or otlwr cul­tures' works." 
Cuno emphasized the idea of preserving the world's common artistic findings and rojnctnd an idea ol'f'nrnd dur­ing the question-and-answer session about a constantly touring international collec­tion of pieces. 
"First, tlwre is an inherent risk to the objeets themselvPs -they could get lost, dam­aged or nvnn dnstroynd," he said. "Second. over the eoursn of a lifetime, many people could miss it -thny might not be in the right placn at the right time." 
Cuno's idea of frequent access to works of art was a common thread throughout the lecture, and hn touchnd on it again to reject the idea of a touring collection or prienlnss int1~rnational works. 
"We wouldn't be able to return to the pieces frequent­ly," he said. "Art museums arn a moans by which to break down simplistic notions of other pnopln's. You can't comn to that understanding all at once --:;-you nnnd frn­quent access. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy I @nd.edu 
Want to write news? Call Oaire at 1-5323. 




lVIudToy 
Live at Kim's Chevron 1613 Miami St. Saturday Feb. 12~ 8to 11 Must be 21 + 


page 4 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
Kaitlyn Redfield said. 
"V-day stands for valentine, vagina and victory over vio­lence, and it's always held around Valentine's Day. Over 40 countries and 700 college campuses participate," she said. 
Participants wore black to signify the secrecy of sexual assault at Notre Dame, which keeps the victims and their perpetrators hidden among the masses, Redfield said. 
Protesters gathered outside DeBartolo as classes emptied, then proceeded down South Quad to South Dining Hall, where they remained until the lunchtime crowds receded. 
The purpose of the protest was twofold -to end the silence and raise awareness. 
"The first step to ending the silence is awareness. Change will not come without knowl­edge," protest participant Clare Desmond said. 
Redfield organized the protest out of deep concern for the many sexually assaulted women who tell no one or blame themselves. She said many are not educated enough on the issue to know assault is not their fault. 
"There is not enough educa­tion on gender equality. It makes it easier to feel that rape is something acceptable," Redfield said. "People under­stand it's wrong, but the University is not doing its best to make sure it doesn't hap­pen." 
Law student Garrett Hohimer is helping with the production of the Vagina Monologues, another V-day event. He agreed something constructive must be done in addition to the efforts of the protests and play. 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 15th 7:30-9:30p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
"The most effective way to University in its dealing with prevent sexual assault is to sexual assault. The protesters' have men talking to other aim was to expose its wide­men," he said. "Men can affect spread prevalence on campus. change in each other." "By keeping the silence, 
The protest, the first of its we're supporting it. This kind at Notre Dame, was an protest is meant to voice the alternative to last year's silence," Desmond said. demonstration around a giant Though some students "V" constructed on South walked by casually, others Quad. After being told the "V" were moved to tears. would not be allowed this year, Denise Massa, curator at the organizers had to develop a Arts Slide Library, applauded new way to grab students' the protesters as she walked by 
attention,  them.  
Desmond said.  "God bless you  
Fliers  distrib­ all," Massa said  
uted to students  'The most effective  as  she  hugged  
declared that sta­tistically, 250 women of this  way to prevent sexual assault is to  some of the par­ticipants. "This just  
year's graduating  have men talking  brings  me  to  
class  will  have  to other men.,,  tears.  Women  
been affected by  and  minorities  
attempted  or  need  a  voice on  
completed sexual  Garrett Hohimer  this campus and  
assault. Redfield  law student  this is powerful,"  

said the statistics were aimed at shocking students into awareness, and according to senior John Hughes, they did just that. 
"I thought it was weird at first, but it definitely makes a statement," Hughes said. "I am shocked by the numbers, they are just so high." 
Despite the movement's emphasis on women and the violence afflicted on them by males, many of Notre Dame's men have joined the V-Day efforts. 
Sophomore George Dzuricsko participated in Thursday's protest. He said from his per­spective, the statistics were only shocking because they seemed too low. 
"On this campus, I think the statistics sound too generous toward guys, when so many just go out and drink to hook up with a girl," he said. 
According to Redfield and event organizers, there is a culture of silence at the 
Massa said. 

In her 14 years 
at Notre Dame, Massa said she has never been so deeply affected by a protest. 
"This is the first year it has moved me as much as it has," she said. 
Sophomore Yadira Huerta walked by protesters on her way out of DeBartolo, and found herself deeply moved by the taped mouths and solemn dress of the participants. 
"I know there is a problem, and I think this school tried to hide it because of its reputa­tion," she said. "But this protest is effective, it's got shock value." 
As the protest ended, Redfield said she felt satisfied with the effort. 
"I am very happy with how it went," she said. "We made people think." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
Friday, February 11, 2005 

Will you be mY 




Stepan? 
center· 
H·O·R·S·E TOURNAMENT* 
F EE F 


F EE E 




E I 



*Separate Men's and Women's Brackets. Prizes to Bracket Champs. Sign-up in the StudentActivities Office this week or at the event 
I 



STEPAN CENTER 
SATURDAY, FEB 12 9 PM -MIDNIGHT STEPAN CENTER 
PRESENTED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES. QUESTIONS? 631-7308 





ORLD & NATION 
Priday, Pebruary l I, 2005 COMPI LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Insurgent attack kills more than 50 
BA<;(II>AD -A ear bomb detonated by rmn oto eon trol ex pJoded Thursday in Baghdad, killing two Iraqis but missing a 
U.S. military convoy as insurgont violence dainwd more than 50 livns. Clashes between Iraqi polko and rebels erupted along a major highway southeast of tho capital. 
With violonee on the rise al'tnr tho Jan. 30 elnction. Iraqi offieials announced they would seal the country's borders for five days this month around a major Shiite rnli­gious holiday. Last year during the holiday, about IHO pnople wPre killed in suieide alllu~ks at Shiite shrines. 
The car bomb dntomii.mT on Tahrir Square in tho hnart of Baghdad, shattering the vehi­cln and setting sovoral other cars on lirn. At · lnast two Iraqis were killnd and two ollwrs wnro woundnd, U.S. military spoknsman Lt. Col. .Jarnns Ilutlon said. 
Prince Charles to marry Bowles 
LONDON -Thirty ynars al'tnr thnir first ronHmcn, Princo Charlns and Camilla Parknr Bowll~s. both now graying divorcens, will linally wml in a civil enremony and put thn oflkial SPal on a n>lationship Princoss Diana blamml for tlw breakdown of hnr marriage to-Uw man who would be king. 
In a nvd to thosn who havn not warmml to l'arkPr Bowlns, thn royal family said Thursday slw will rwvnr hold Lhn title of qrrnm1 hut nvnntu<dly will be eallnd IIIUI l'riru:ess Consort instead. 
In tlwir l'irst public appearaneo together since tlw announenmnnt, Charlns, 56, and Parker Bowles, 57, smiled broadly as they walk1HI into a Windsor C.astle reception Thursday night, and Lhn guests applauded. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Flu vaccine still in short supply 
WASIIINGTON -It's not too late to got a llu shot if you can lind orw, the director of thn Cnntors for Disease Control and l'mvnntion said Thursday. 
While some slates still have shortages, oth­nrs havn an ample supply and should nxnr­dsn "eommon sense" in distributing the vae­drw, with priority given to high-risk individ­uals, including elderly, ehildren, those with ehronie health conditions and health eare worknrs, said Dr . .Julin Gnrbording. 
"Don't wastn it," she urgnd local and state lwalth oflieials during lwr appearance before the Ilouse Govnrnmnnt Hnform Committee. 
Jury convicts New York lawyer 
NI·:w YOHK -A veteran civil rights lawyer was eonvktml Thursday of crossing tho line by smuggling messages of violenen from one of' lwr jailnd dienl<; -a radical Egyptian sheik ­to his tl'frorist disciples on the outsidn. 
The jury dnliberatnd 13 days over the past month hnl'orn convicting Lynne Stewart, (J5, a fin•brand, left-wing activist known filf reprn­snnting radicals and rnvolutionaries in her 30 years on tlw Nt~w York legal scene. 
Stnwart slumpnd in her chair as tho verdict was rnad, shaking her head and later wiping tnars from hor nyos. 
Sho vowod to appnal and blamod tho convic­tion on nvidnneo that included videotape of Osama bin Laden urging support for her diont. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Murder suspects return to Indiana 
INDIANAPOI.IS -A brothnr and sister agrnnd in a Missouri eourt today to return to Indiana and faee dmrgos that they killnd their motlwr and ){randparnnL-., burying the bodies in an Indianapolis basnmont. 
Kmuwth Allen, 29, and his sister Kari Allen, IH, waivod extradition whon they appeared lwfore .ludgn William Lohmar in St. Charlns, Mo. 
Tlw Alh~ns could bn rnturned to Indianapolis as mtrly as Friday, said .lack Banas, prosecut­ing attornny fi1r St. Charles County. 
North Korea: We have nukes 
Country refuses to participate in disarmament talks; Bush faces challenge 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea­North Korea boasted pub­licly for the first time Thursday that it has nuelear weapons and said it will stay away from dis­armament talks, dramati­cally raising tho stakes in the 2-year-old dispute. The Bush administration called on Pyongyang to give up its atomic aspirations so life can be better for its impov­erished pnople. 
North Korea's harshly worded pronouncement posed a grave challenge to President Bush, who start­ed his seeond term with a vow to end North Korea's nuclear program through six-nation disarmament talks. 
"We ... have manufac­tured nukes for self­del'nnse to eopn with the Bush administration's evnr-morn undisguisnd pol­icy to isolato and stil1e the !North!." tho North Korean Foreign Ministry said in a statement carried by the state-run Korean Central News Agency. The agency's report usPd the word "nukes" in its English-lan­guage dispateh. 

Previously, U.S. negotia­tors said North Korean ollieials claimed in private talks that they had nuelear weapons and might test the revelation and urged intention of atlaeking or Bush previously brandnd one. The North's U.N. the North to return to the invading North Korea. the North part of an "axis envoy also said last year six-nation talks that began "The message is elnar: of evil" along with Iran and the country had in 2003 and also include give up these aspirations Saddam Hussein's Iraq. "weaponized" plutonium China, Japan and Hussia. for nuclear wnapons and Still, Pyongyang on from its pool of 8,000 Analysts suggested the you know life ean be cUITer­Thursday seized on com­nudear spent fup,l rods. move by North Korea may ent," Hiee said, adding that ments by Hiee last month 
But Thursday's state­be a negotiating tactic it was the same message in which she lalwlod North ment was the first elaim aimed at getting more Libya understood in Korea as on(~ of thn "out­directly from North compensation in exchange renouncing its nuelear posts of tyranny" in the Korea's state media that it for giving up its nuclear ambitions. world. has a nuclear weapon, weapons program. In a elear overture to "The U.S. diselosed its confirming the widely held Secretary of State North Korea to help foster attempt to toppln the polit­beliefs of international Condoloozza Hiee said the nuclear talks, Bush ical system in I North experts that the country North Korea should return refrained from direet criti­Korna] at any eost, threat­has one or two atomic to negotiations. cism of the eountry in last ening it wit.h a nuelear bombs. North Korea is not "The world has given week's State of' Uw Union stick," North Korea's known to have performed them a way out and we address. lie mentioned the Foreign Ministry said. any nuclear tests, and it hope they will take that North only in a single sen­"This eompnls us to take a kicked out U.N. inspeetors way out," she said, wrap­tence, saying Washington measurn to bolster its in 2002, so there is no way ping up a trip to Europe. was "working elosely with nuclear weapons arsenal to verify its elaims. "The North Koreans have governments in Asia to in order to protect the ide­
The United States and been told by the president convince North Korea to ology, system, fnHHlom and South Korea. the North's of the United States that abandon its nuelear ambi­democrai~y chosen by the main rivals, played down the United States has no tions." peopln in INorth Korea]." 

Senate approves class-action bill 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Senate approved a measure Thursday to help shiPid businesses from major elass action lawsuits likP the ones that have been brought against tobaeeo compa­nies, giving President Bush the first legislative vidory or his second term. 
Under the legislation, long sought by big business, large multistate elass action lawsuits eould no longer be heard in small slate courts. Such courts have handed out multimillion­dollar verdiets. 
Instead, the cast~s would be heard by federal judges, who have not proven as open to those type of lawsuits. 
The Senate passed the bill 72-26, and it now gons to tho I louse. Bush called the bill a strong stop for­ward. 
"Our eountry depends on a fair legal systmn that proteets people who have bnen harmed without encouraging junk lawsuits that undermine eonli­doneo in our courts while hurting our eeonomy," Bush said in a statement released in Pennsylvania where he was promoting his Soc.ial Security pro­posals. 
Thomas Donohue, president of' the 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said, "Now it's time for the !louse to finish thn job and take baek our eivil justiee system !'rom plaintill's' lawyers sePking jaekpotjustien." 
But Todd A. Smith, prnsid1mt ol' thn Association of' Trial Lawyers ol' America, said, "Evel'y Anuwiean 's legal righL-. are diminislwd by this anti-eon­sumer legislation." The assodation said insuranen, toh<u~eo, drug, dimni­eal and othnr eompanins had financed thn push to gnt the legislat.ion through tho Snnate. 
Bush and otlwr bill supporl!ws ­who have pushed l'or the lngislation li1r almost six years -say it is rHwdnd because grnndy lawynrs hav1~ takPn advantage or the state systPlll by filing l'rivolous lawsuits in state courts whom tlmy know they r.an gPt big wr­diets. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 11, 2005 
Unique exhibit shovvs Stations of the Cross 
ND father, daughter collaborated on design 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
A unique father/daughter exhibition by graphic arts pro­fessor John Sherman and his daughter Theresa Sherman opened in the Malloy Hall chapel Thursday, rendering their artistic view of the Stations of the Cross. 
"This is a rare event that fos­ters a sense of collaboration on many levels, between the arts 

· and theology, between faculty and student and between a father and daughter," profes­sor of liturgical studies Father Michael Driscoll said. The two Shermans spoke about their creative rendition of the Stations and the process of capturing the sacred in a devotional rather than gallery setting. John Sherman described his interpretation of the Stations of the Cross, highlighting the aspects that make it unique and symbolic instances in each Station. "The exhibition is a creative interpretation of the Way of the Cross set with the t.ext of 23 languages and a minimal use of images," he said. "By using languages from all around the world, I hope to communicate that Christ came into this world to demonstrate a path to redemption by his ultimate sacrifice for all the peoples of the world. My intention in this work is to show the journey Christ took to the cross is not only his journey, but my jour­ney and the journey taken by everyone." In addition to English, John Sherman presented text in Arabic, Aramaic, Chinese, Filipino, French, German, Greek, Hindi, Igbo (Nigeria), Italian, Japanese, Latin, L\lgandan (Uganda), Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Russian; Slovene, Spanish, Swahili, Swedish and Vietnamese. "In each composition, I tried to arrange the text in such a way to give a starting point for reflection," he said. "Some of the compositions have a simple image, but in each case I tried to convey meaning by way of typographic arrangement." This design was well received by the audience. "I love that there are so few 

SUPPLES 
Poker Chips from $4.95/50 
Texas Holdem Tables from 199.97 Poker Tables from $299.0.0 
Rentals Available 
Large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. SOS1 0 St. Rd. 933N • South Bend 

574-272-1617 

images, because it is the word 
that is of importance. This 
draws contemplatively in a 
way that a visual display could 
not," said Father Michael 
Joncas, a professor of liturgical 
studies. 
Theresa Sherman, a senior · theology major, spoke about 
the development and history of 
the Stations of the Cross, which 
she explored in her thesis 
paper. She described the stan­
dardization of the popular 
methods of practicing the 
Stations and focused on chang­
ing interpretations from their 
inception to the current day. 
In discussing the origins of 
the Stations of the Cross, 
Theresa Sherman described 
how in the third century, 
Constantine constructed 
churches on important loca­
tions associated with Jesus' 
road to Calvary. 
"Pilgrims visited these holy 
places in Jerusalem and medi-. 
tated on the Paschal Mystery," 
she said. "Believers from all 
corners of the world would 
come to Jerusalem and walk 
through the churches, placing · 
themselves where Christ actu­
ally stood." 
Theresa Sherman explained 
that even the inclusion of cer­
tain scenes of the Stations of 
the Cross has evolved. The 
Shermans' exhibit includes sta­
tions consistent with those 
Pope John Paul II used in his 
1991 Good Friday celebration. 
Their set of Stations, which 
will remain operi throughout 
Lent, is intended to reach out 
to marginalized Catholics. 
"The Stations of the Cross 
are meant ultimately to send 
people back out into the world. 
The devotion of the Stations of 
the Cross is one way to convey 
the multifaceted message of 
the paschal mystery," she said. 
"When Jesus bears the pains of 
society, our reaction should not 
be to inflict pain on ourselves, 
but to recognize the pain of 
others living among ourselves." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 

Election 
continued from page 1 
included in the final per­centage calculations. 
Baron swept the freshman, junior and senior classes, but Leito edged him out in sophomore votes by a mere six votes. 
The race in the dorms was just as tight, with a six-vote or fewer margin of victory in five of them. Baron and Shappell took 15 dorms ­including their home bases of Morrissey and Badin ­and the off-campus vote, leaving 12 halls for Leito­Bongiovanni, with their own show of loyalty from Siegfried and Cavanaugh. 
Though ~endered speech­less for a brief minute after the announcement, Baron rushed to attribute the victo­ry to his tenacious cam­paigners after he regained his voice. 
"We had a ton of great people with us who just gave 180 percent," he said. "It was a grassroots campaign all the way, anti that's the only way we came out like this." 
Leito, expressing a mix of sadness, disappointment and "happiness, believe it or not," nevertheless said he wouldn't have changed the ticket's campaigning tactics. 
"The stuff we could have done differently, we wouldn't have done to win," he said. 
Bongiovanni agreed, asserting her confidence in the campaign their ticket ran but declining to guess what swung the 235 votes in the other direction. 
"I can't speak for the stu­dent body, because whatever the reason, the student body already spoke tonight," she said. 
After taking a moment to "let it sink in," as Shappell said, the president-elect and vice president-elect turned their vision to the future. 
"I was proud that we got some of these issues out dur­ing the campaign and debates," Baron said. "But I'm so much more excited now that we get to imple­ment them." 
The pair said they will draw up a calendar of what 
Saint Mary's Dance 
presents 


Mg~-;)
I c;~ THE ARTS 
For ticket information, ~NoTRE oAME, IN cal/574/284-4626 or visit www.saintmarys. edu/~events/Calendars 
issues they plan to take on when and will post it in the office when they take over on April 1 in what they pro­jected will be "a seamless transition." 
Baron, currently the chief executive assistant for stu­
Baron said. 
· "Concern over the diversity problem at Notre Dame will be as much a part of our upcoming administration as it is of the current adminis­tration," Shappell added. 
Baron also said they will 

dent body president Adam .Istvan 
"! was proud that 

a.nd vice 
.we got some of

president Karla Bell, these issues out said he would during the be a bridge 
campaign and

between the two adminis­debates, but I'm so trations. 
much more excited 

Baron said he 
now that we get to

and Shappell 
will carry on implement them." the fight for the diversity 
Dave Baron 

issues out­
student body

lined in the 
president -elect ', (­

February 
Board of Trustees report and work to put into practice the solutions that are planned to be proposed in the April BOT report. 
"Our entire year will be 'part three' of this series of reports, moving on to the implementation phase," 
start writing let­ters to prominent speakers in prepa­ration for their promised Catholic Think Tank of America lecture series. Among other things, he said they will begin to work toward securing the concert endowment. 
Looking visibly relieved and slightly shocked, Baron and Shappell embraced after the initial tumult of the 
announcement blew over. 
"Well, we've got a lot of work to do," Baron said with a smile. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 



THAI RESTAURANT 
We are looking forward to creating a wonderful evening and a romantic experience for you and your special guest this Valentine's day. (Please make a reservation in advance ifyou plan to spend your romantic evening with us.) 
Lunch: MowFri llam-2pm · 
Dinner: Mon-Sat 5pm-9pm 

2ll N. Main Downtown South Bend 
2.3:2-4445 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~---------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Friday, February I I, 2005 
page 7 
Ex-CFO testifies at fraud trial 
Dow 

Sullivan tells jurors that he warned WorldCom CEO about improper accounting
10,749.61 +85.50 

}ones~, 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
Associated Press 

1,852 ISS ·~ 1,514,892,672 
NEW YOHK-The for­AMEX I ,480.00 + 14.g3 
mer finance ehief of NASDAQ 2,053.1 () -0.55 
WorldCom testified Wednesday he warned

NYSE 7,210.65 +48.66 
CEO Bernard Ebbors at a

S&PSOO I, 197.0 I +5.02 
2001 dinnor meeting that NIKK£l(Tokyo) II ,553.56 +80.21 
acr.ountants would have to classify oxpensns as assets

FTSE IOO(London) 5,000.00 +9.60 
to meet Wall Street expec­tations.

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
Scott Sullivan told jurors 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) +0.11 LEVEL 3 COMM INC (LVLT) -15.93 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.28 INTEL CP (INTq +0.86 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.04 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +2.29 I 0-YEAR NOTE +2.41 5-YEAR NOTE +2.01 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
Excha Rates 
WorldCom accountants eovered up more than $700 million in expenses 

YEN 105.81 
EURO 0.7766 
for the first quarter of 

POUND 0.5351 
2001 by classifying them as capital expenditures, treating regular operating expenses as long-term investments in the net­

CANADIAN$ 1.2419 

IN BRIEF 
work. Such investments raise the value of a compa­

ny's assets and the BIHMINGIIAM, Ala. -Jurors in former 
Jury hears secret recordings 
expense is deducted over llealthSouth ehil~f executive Hiehard Scrushy's 
time as the asset ages. eorporat11 fraud trial heard a recording 
The procedure was a Wednesday in whkh Scrushy instructed aides 
shift from the previous two to tell investigators the company's financial 
quarters, when the statenwnts were accurate. 
accountants had simply While prosecutors daim the digital record­
been hiding expenses ·by ings prove Serushy's guilt, the defense con­
drawing on reserve tPnds parts of them exonerate Scrushy. 
accounts, sometimes com­In a recording that was secretly made for the 
pletely unrelated to the FBI by formor llealthSouth chief linaneial offi­
expenses. cer Bill Owens, Serushy was heard discussing 
Sullivan, who has plead­his tPstimony to the Securities and Exchange 
ed guilty in the $11 billion Commission three days earlier on March 14, 
WorldCom accounting­200:J. 
fraud scandal, was testify­Owens said that besides him and Scrushy, 
ing for a third day as the assistant controller Ken Livesay was present 
star government witness for the meeting at llealthSouth headquarters. 
against Ebbers, who is Owens, Livesay and 13 others have since 
accused of orchestrating pleaded guilty in what prosecutors describe as 
the fraud. a $2.7 billion fraud. 
When Sullivan eventually showed Ebbers a revised income statement for the

Drug company changes labeling 
first quarter of 2001, he

INDIANAPOLIS-Eli Lilly and Co. has changnd thn labeling on its antipsychotic 
+0.04 37.15 
at Ebbers' fraud trial that he made the suggestion at a Washington, D.C., steak 

-0.36 1.90 
-0.05 17.58 
house in March 2001 and +0.20 23.50 
told Ebbers "that it wasn't right. that it was a short­

-0.0 I 26.06 
cut to earnings." "Did Mr. Ebbers toll you 
not to makn the shortcut adjustment that you had 

+ 1.00 44.65 
+0.96 40.73 
proposed?" federal prose­

+0.72 36.46 
cutor William Johnson asked Sullivan. 

0.00 24.6 7 
"No. he did not," Sullivan answered. lie said 

+1.64 47.10 
Ebbers responded by say­ing WorldCom had to get

+4.20 418.70 
its revenun going again. 

-1.93 87.80 
Shortly thereafter, 


said Ebbers asked "how we were doing it" and said: "We have to hit our numbers for this quarter." 
The remark has become a familiar refrain in the trial. Prosecutors say Ebbers was bent on mak­ing sure WorldCom rev­enue and earnings figures met Wall Street estimates to keep its stock price high. 
Sullivan also said Wednesday that Ebbers personally ordered disap­pointing language removed from a February 2001 press release that announced WorldCom's fraudulent earnings fig­ures for the fourth quarter of 2000. 
An original draft of the release said WorldCom expected 2001 revenue growth of 12 percent to 15 percent, with first-quarter figures "at or below" that range. He said Ebbers ordered the "at m· bnlow" removed. 
Ebbers, 63, is charged with fraud, conspiracy and making seven false lilings to the Securities and Exchange Commission, charges that carry up to 85 years in prison. He has denied wrongdoing. 
Sullivan's testimony Wednesday carried jurors through the first half of 2001, a time in which WorldCom revenues were slowing at an alarming rate and expenses were spiraling out of control. 
Sullivan also quoted Ebbers, who Sullivan said did not curse often, as using an expletive when he was presented with data showing 8 percent revenue growth for May 2001 -far below expecta­tions. 
Prosecutors played dips of several WorldCorn quar­terly conference calls, including one from April 2001 in which Ebbers, veering oil' his script, tells · stock analysts: "We do not see any storms on the horizon at this time." 
They also played a voice mail that Sullivan left for Ebbers in June 2001, telling the chief executive that revenue figures look worse each month and that the most recent rev­enue report "already has accounting fluff in it." 

Zyprnxa to avoid confusion with Plizer Inc.'s allergy medieine Zyrtec after some patients wern !{iven the wrong drug. 
Lilly said in a Iotter to psychiatrists and phar­

Government sets oyster restrictions 
madsts that it has rneeived 71J reports of such 
mix-ups sinee Zyprexa, whieh is usnd to treat schizophrnnia and bipolar disorder, was intro­
Associated Press 

duced in 1996. The letter, datnd Jan. 2(,, was posted Tuesday on the U.S. Food and Drug 
NEW OHLEANS -Jn the days before Administration's Mndwateh Web site. 
refrigeration and genetic advance­Patients with psychological disorders who 
ments, raw oystnrs were oil' limits in take Zyrtee instead of their regular Zyprexa 
the summer along the steamy shores of could be at risk of relapse, but Lilly spokes­
the Gulf of Mexieo because the shellfish woman lleallwr l.usk said Wednesday that the 
carried diseases and tasted too milk,Y.. company had not received reports of sueh 
Today, the old rule "eat oysters only easns. 
in the months with Rs" sounds more Four patients required hospitalization 
like folk lore. Thanks to new technolo­because of the confusion, she said. Those eases 
gies and scientific breakthroughs, a involved cardiac arrhythmia, blood prnssure 
year-round oyster industry flourishes, c~hangns or changes in the central nnrvous sys­
and in the middle of July you can find a tnm, though she was unable to provide details. 
raw oyster bar open. Tlw most frnqunntly reported ell'eet from the 
But this summertime feast could be switdwd m11dir.ation was excessive sloPpiness, 
in jeopardy because of a government whieh is listed as a potential side efTeet for 
plan to ensure that every Gulf raw oys­both drugs, l.usk said. 
ter is safe to eat. The plan combat.'> one last threat: A naturally occurring bac­terium known as Vibrio vulnilieus. 
Summer oysters piek up the deadly bacterium, which is blamed for between 30 and 35 deaths a year in the United States. The federal government is pressuring the four biggnst Southern oyster-producing states -which account for more than half the nation's oysters-to cut the number of contam­inated raw oysters or face restrictions ranging from costly processing treat­ments to shutting down the summer harvest entirely. 
As part of a management plan, Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and Texas must reduce the number of deaths caused by raw Gulf oysters by 40 per­cent by the end of' 2006 and by 60 per­cent by the end of 2008. 
"It is looking like the 40 percnnt wduction by the end of 200(1 may not be mot," said Kon Moore, oxoc:utive director of the Interstate Slwllfish Sanitation Conference, a body set up by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to oversee the national sanitation pro­gram. 
If the goals are not mot, by 2008 the government could require harvest areas to be dosed, shucking houses to decontaminate raw oysters meant for consumption and labnl untreated raw oysters for cooking only. Moreover, other states could stop buying Gulf oys­ters during the warm months, some­thing California already dnos to tho out­rage of Gulf' oystermcm. 

,--------~­
page 8 Friday, February 11, 2005
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
as well as a good and forthright not cross that line." bishop's reaction, especially what which is consistent with the relationship of many years' stand­Furthermore, Storin said the he identified as "inaccuracies" in Catholic Church." 
Bishop 

ing. The Queer Film Festival is, as University believed hosting the D'Arcy's letter. Dacey agreed with Sturin's com­continued from page 1 its title suggests, an examination festival would benefit students. "We extended the invitation Ito ment that Notre Dame has a of a certain genre of film, spon­"Within reason, we would prefer speak] to many members of the responsibility to offer this opportu­
receiving the Church's actual sored by our Department of Film, that our students encounter the Catholic community, especially for nity to its students. teachings on homosexuality at the Television and Theatre. It does not secular American culture, with all our 'Future of Gay Marriage' "A<> a top 20 university, we have festival, the Church and parents constitute an endorsement of the its faults, in the panel," Dacey said. to do our best to expose our stu­are also wronged, he said. behaviors that might be included context of their These invitations dents to different cultures, parts of 
"If you don't agree 
"What about the rights of the in the content of the films, Storin Catholic educa­were not accepted, he American life," he said. "We
H with what we're
church to have its teachings prop­said in an e-mail. tion rather than said. shouldn't shun that." erly presented?" he wrote. "What Storin said the festival's topic is attempting to doing, you don't The attitude of the Dacey did not feel the festival about the rights of parents of not inappropriate for Notre Dame. cloister them till organizers was "more violates anyone's rights. 
have to attend the 
those students at Notre Dame who "Indeed, an exposition of almost the time they than inclusive," Dacey "If you don't agree with what
festival."
fmd the contents of this seminar any cross-section of contemporary graduate, only said, as opposed to we're doing, you don't have to offensive?" commercial films would likely then to confront undermining the attend the festival," he said. University spokesman Matt include actions or behaviors that reality," he said. Liam Dace1y Catholic viewpoint as Film, television and theatre Storin explained how, in the case are inconsistent with church Notre Dame D'Arcy claimed. department chair Jim Collins was
film festival dilrector 
of the festival, Notre Dame's inter­teaching," he said. "The University graduate Liam Dacey also said not available for comment
of operations
pretation of academic freedom dif­carefully weighs such issues and Dacey, director D'Arcy did not under­Thursday evening. fers from the bishop's. recognizes that there are limits of operations stand the message of "The University has great afiec­even to academic freedom, but we and co-founder of the festival last the festival, which Dacey said was Contact Maddie Hanna at tion and respect for Bishop D'Arcy believe the upcoming festival does year, said he was surprised at the one "of tolerance and acceptance, mhannal@nd.edu 

Tuition 
I 
continued from page 1 
were many components to the University's new budget, including the raised tuition, Malloy stressed the largest supplement is still for student financial aid. 
The presentation was well received and the Board remained committed to finan­cial aid on a need-blind basis, meaning the ability to pay tuition has nothing to do with University acceptances, Russo said. 
A little over $59 million in undergraduate scholarships based on financial need is given out per year. Russo said the money is given based strictly on need, not including ROTC or athletic scholarships. 
Malloy and Russo both said Notre Dame is still below the average in overall cost com­pared to other top 20 schools. The financial aid program has continued to grow despite increased tuition, yet such a high price sometimes deters students from applying to pri­vate universities. 
"The family and the student have to be willing to do their fair share as well," Russo said. "But unfortunately, a lot of people just look at the sticker price and never get past that and don't evl:ln apply because they think it's over their heads." 
The University's strong finan­cial aid program has helped attract a diverse population to the school, especially during the last 20 years. According to Russo, 23 percent of the cur­rent student body is made up of diversity students. He also said Notre Dame is listed at No. 13 in the national "best value, best price for what you're get­ting" rankings. 
Russo stressed the long-term benelits of attending a univer­sity like Notre Dame. 
"This is affordable if you just look at the financial aid oppor­tunities, including the loans. But there is a value," Russo said. "It's an investment and it will pay you back in all kinds of ways." 
Russo stressed the financial 
aid system and commitment to 
help students complete their 
education lie within the values 
of Notre Dame. 
"If the mission includes try'­ing to be the very best and offer the opportunity to come to Notre Dame to anyone regardless of their financial circumstances, we believe that that's a value," Husso said. "Here's an opportunity to come to a very special school." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


Opus 
continued from page 1 
cants for apartments in Opus Hall will be living there during the 2005-06 school year. 
The hall, which opened to students last year after months of construction, is able to house 24 students in double apartments and 48 students in quads. Russell said Residence Life received about two times as many applications as spaces avail­able. 
"We had about 20 [group applications] for four for 12 apartments, and 30 applica­tions for two [for 12 apart­drawing. 
Russell said she feels this is the fairest way possible to assign the limited number of apartments. 
"We're always going to eval­uate this process and make sure it is the most fair process for everyone," she said. "I think right now we feel that 
.this process should remain a random lottery, that no pref­erence should be given [to anyone] so that we are giving every senior an equal oppor­tunity to get an apartment." 
The hall has become a pop­ular option for junior students because of its on-campus location and various amenities not available in the College's four regular dormitories. 
The apartments feature a 
ments]." Russell said. "I thought it 
"We're always 
went as expected. It was a good going to evaluate turnout in terms of 
this process and 
the number of 
make sure it is the 
applications we had, and it went as most fair process we planned and 
for everyone." 
expected it would go." 
Interested stu­Michelle Russell dents attended director of mandatory infor­Residence Life mation sessions, applied, made a 
separate room for each resi­dent, a general living area and a kitchen. Included in each one is cable and Internet access, water, gas and elec­
the floors also has a lounge with a fireplace and big screen 

Announcing the Year 

2005 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thank.• to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2005 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate student> who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will nonnally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language., literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame .. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino. Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested student' are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department. of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit aletter which should include: 
I)  an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests. and long-tenn goals  
3)  a description ofthe research proj<..><:t or the program they intend to fo!Jow  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved  
5)  the names of two references.  
Application Deadline: Monday. February 21", 2005  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scbolanbip  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnes-~y Hull  
University of Notre Dame  

that she and roommate Kati~ Kelly had been lucky enough to get a double apartment for next year. She said she felt "a little bit pressured" by the scarcity of apartments avail­able. 
"I know there were a lot of 
applicants, but we had other options, so if we didn't get an apartment we would have had other places to live," Vlasek said. "I know that there were quite a few girls that were really upset, but they're looking into other options." 
"I know that there plans to live in LeMans Hall
were quite a few 
rather than seek
girls that were 
an off-campusreally upset, but apartment. 
they're looking into "I'll still have 
the roommate
other options." 
that I wanted to live with in the Jill Vlasek apartment, but we won't be in
junior 

Junior Erin Jones said she was only a little disappointed 
that  she  and  her  chosen  
roommate  did  not  get  an  
apartment.  

"Every single one of my friends besides my roommate and I got in. I think everybody wanted it, and I don't think 
•Ul v anybody wanted to be the people that didn't get in," she said. "Everybody wanted to, and even though we're friends they were still happy about it." 
Jones said she was not dev­
astated by the announcement because the lot­tery was fair, and 
the same building 
as the rest of our friends. But I think my friend­ship with my roommate will compensate for that," Jones said. She jokingly added, "I hope my friendships with my other friends will be able to sustain the football-field 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

tricity. Each of IF.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SENIORS Do your parents need a place to staay f'or Graduation? 
CALL 

Bed ~N Eh-eak"l'ast Registry Housing NO Parents since '1983 
574-232-Q774 888-830-7722 

housing deposit by the dead­line and qualified by graduat­ing in May 2006 and not being under academic or discipli­nary probation. Then each application was numbered and randomly chosen from a television for student use. 
"I am really excited to have the opportunity to live on campus in these beautiful apartments," junior Jill Vlasek said. 
Vlasek was informed Jan. 28 

hiday, February II, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

Researchers rely on censorship 
Modern scientists avoid controversy by steering clear of certain topics 
WASIIIN<;TON -Sonw sd­nntists arP thinking twien about doing or n~porting on rnrtain rnsParrh, rnacting to politiral and sorial rontrovprsy in addition to lngal rPstrirtions. 
"It appnars that rontrovnrsy slrarws what srinntists ehoosn to study and how t.lwy choose to study it, and wn ruwd to look a littln hit mon' rlosnly al tho niTnrts it might hn having," said .loanrll' Knmpnnr. a rPsParrlwr at tht~ UnivPrsity of Mkhigan. 
Knmprwr and co-authors from Brown Univnrsily and the Univnrsity of Pt~nnsylvimia con­duet.nd in-depth interviews with 41 sdtmlists nngagod in a val"iety of studios. Thoy found that half felt constrained by formal limits, but nvnn more said thny worn affected by informal or unspoken ruins on what and how studies ean bn donn. Thnir findings are rnported in Thursday's issue of thn journal Sr.innen, in a paper nntitled "Forbidden Knowl11dge." 
l;orr11al limits include sueh things as the ban on federal funding for most rnsnareh on nmbryonk stnm cells and n~strictions on rns11arch involv­ing humans. 
In many casns, too, scientific journals have their own rules, such as rpfusing to publish mal!~rial they think might be dntrinwntal to national securi­ty. 
But thnre also arn fears about thn ire of interest groups. such as opponnnts of animal tnsting, or about how a projeet would be perceived by the public. 
Whiln formal and informal 

restrietions on research are not unusual. Dnborah G. Johnson ol' tho University of Vir·ginia said they are not nec­nssarily all bad, 
"On llw one hand. you want a profession to have norms and to havn some standards and some self-regulation. On the other hand, you don't want thorn to lw an nnvimnmnnt of fnar of rnporcussions if they do somnthing whieh they think is lngitimatn," said Johnson, who has studiml similar issues hut was not part ol' KPmpnnr's group. 
Onn rosnarelwr. comm1·mting on avoiding controversial work, llild Kempner's team: "J would like to lunatic-proof my life as much as possible." 
Anothnr reportP.d deciding not to do a study involving offnring food vouchnrs to drug addicts who tested dean. 
"That was something that thought they couldn't do," Knmprwr said in a telephone interview. "One rP.searcher said, 'Can you imagine that as a hnadline on tho front page of the newspaper, that we're pay­ing cocaine addicts to stay dean'?"' 
Kempnnr said, "A lot of rnsearehers that we spoke to wern risk-avP.rse in terms of avoiding controversy." But, she added, "Thorn were plenty of people who said controvnrsy is a good thing, because it opnns up topics to public debatn." 
Militant animal rights groups wern a concern for many, who worriPd about organizations that havP invaded iaboratories to set animals loose and destroy research. 
Kempnnr recalled one of hnr interviews. "All of a sudden he said, 'llow do I know you're not from an animal rights organization collecting infor­mation to storm tho placo'?'" 
Somntinws commercial intnr­nsts can get in the way of rnsParch, Kt~mpner added, say­ing thorn are easns wlwn the pharrnaenutical industry will nsk a rnsnareher not to publish a partieular finding. 
Anothnr example was a rPsnarchnr who wanted to study what kind of environ­ments can lead to sexual harassment. "Slw eouldn't find a company that would tnt hnr ask thosn kinds ol' questions to employees," Kempner said. They didn't want anything that might give one of their workers the idea to sue. 
She also cited the case or an alcohol researcher who felt. some studies could not be done in this country, for example, a trial on whether alcoholics could be taught to drink in moderation. 
"Those kinds of studies, according to this researcher. couldn't bn donn in the United Statns because we live in a cul­ture that b1·1lieves addicts ... must quit. cold turkey," and the work might undermine that position, she said. 
And there are cases of solf­eensorship, Kempnnr said. 
"Sometimes researchers depend on particular groups to give them access to data ... and very often they form attach­ments and really like what the group is doing. So, if they have a finding that undermines what the group is doing, they wouldn't publish it, some actu­ally haven't published it." 
Kempner's research was funded by the Greenwall Foundation and the Robert Wood .Johnson Foundation. 
fRANCE 
General asks for 111ore NATO trainers in Iraq 
Asso~iat<·d Press 
NICI•:-U.S. allies in Furopt~ havn so far musterPd fewer than 100 trainers to go to Iraq to assist in the rnodnst. NAI'O mission thoro, but a top Amel'ic.an gonoral said Thursday lw was hopeful t.lwy would offer several dozon morn in the ~~oming wonks. 
"Wp'w asked for more than what has bonn provid1HI so far," said Army Lt. Gen. David Petraeus, who ov1~rsnes tho efl'ort to train and equip Iraq's security and military forces. Petraeus joinnd U.S. Dnf'ense SPcretary Donald Humsfeld in Nice for a meeting of NATO defensn ministers. 
The NATO mission in Iraq. while small, aims to dnv11lop Iraq's military on a strategic level, rather than train indi­vidual soldiers. This indudes efl'orts to set up military stall' and oiTieer colleges. Bush administration officials have also advocated the NAI'O mis­sion as a way of pushing NATO to transform into a morp, deployable, internation­ally involved allianen. 
Other NATO allies have declined Washington's appeal to send trainers to Iraq but have offered equipment, money or to eonduct training outside Iraqi borders. 
The Spanish defense minis­ter on Wednesday said Spain would train soldiers in land­mine removal teehniquns, and the French minister rennwed an offer for French gondarmes to set up a training ennter for Iraqi paramilitary forens in Qatar. France opposed tho Iraq war, and Spanish votnrs have elected a new govl~rn­mPnt whoso members also opposed it. Gnrmany, another opponent. already conducts training for Iraqi security pt>r­s o n rw I i n t.lw lin ited A r a h 
t•:miratt~s. 
Petramrs said about bPt.WI'I'n CJO to I00 trainers are in Iraq now. A substantial numi.Jer an' Anwricans working under tlw NATO hamwr. hut prtwist~ lig­ures WPre unavailahiP. lie said tlw goal is to get that to 159 tminers from NATO nations. l'nwious statenwnts from NATO olTieials put t.lw numbnr of trainnrs at :~00. hut Pntranus said he could not speak to that figure. 
Also at Nice, NATO d1d'ense ministers worn dose to agrne­ing on plans for nxpanding their pnaenknnping opnration in Afghanistan 
The ministers are nxpoctPd Thursday to approvo plans to send pnaeekenpnrs to wnstnrn Afghanistan along tho Iranian bordnr, with Italy, Spain and Lithuania nnding months of' delay by oiToring troops to support U.S. f'oreos undf'r NATO eommand. 
On thn longer term, minis­ters may also discuss a possi­ble NATO role monitoring an eventual peace agrePnwnt betwenn lsranlis nnd l'aiHstinians. NATO Snerntary (iennral .laap de Hoop Scheffer this wonk said the allianee would respond if' asknd for help from the two sides in the Middle East con­flict and the Unitnd Nations. 
Germany meanwhile oll'Pred to increase its eommitment in Afghanistan. l>nf'm1sn Minister Peter Struck told reporters Wodnesday night that Gorman 
troops could take a load roln in northnrn Afghanistan, relieving British t'orees who arn nxpndod to nxpand NAI'O's mission into a south­ern snetor around Kandahar later this year. 

2005 SUMMER RESIDENCE HALL STAFF 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing is currently accepting applications for summer positions. 
• 
Be part of a successful team 

• 
Share your Notre Dame experience 

• 
Meet new people 


The application and additional information is available in the Office of Residence Life and Housing or on-line at: 
orlh.nd.edu/employment 
Applications: on-line until Feb. 23 Interview sign-up: Feb. 23-March 4 Interviews: March 15-24 
Sign-up and interviews will be 1n 305 Main Building. 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND I lOUSING 
l'hon.:: 631-5X7X E-Mail: sumstafl~p nu..:Ju






orr&fi 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, February 11, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie franklin AD DESIGN MA.><AGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEll ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631'-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4 543 sports. 1 @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc. 1@nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe srudenrs of rhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's C..ollege. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisnation ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as. accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to tl1e Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies Jhould be dirmd to Editor in ChiifMatt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob~rvcr {USPS ~t}9 2-4000} i~ pub] !!shed Monday thrnugh f-riday except during c:u1n and va~::tq,un perinds. A ~u.bliCription to Tite ()~rver is $100 for one J.C«dcmtt year; $'S" ~r one S<.:nl<lo(tf 
Th(' Obsavt-r i.~ published at: POSTMASTER 
024. Somh Dhtin~ ltall .S~ addteu c<mections (0: Nom: D:tm<, IN <16'5".6--0779 The Observer Periodial postage paid Jl Notre: Damr­P.O. Box 779 and aJdidon.U m.tilin~office~. 1124 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46'5S6-07'79 
Th~: Oll.~CfVtf is a 1m:rnber of the t\~>.'ll...:iated Prc.'llo. All rcpruductwn right~ .ur: rel.ervcd. 

Welcoming the Weis era 
Millions of people around the world watched Sunday as Charlie Weis and the New England Patriots captured their third Super Bowl in four years. Now, less than a week later, Weis has arrived to begin working full time at his new job as Notre Dame's head football coach. 
With the dust mostly settled from Notre Dame's controversial decision to fire Tyrone Willingham, the University has the opportunity to put that situation in the past OJhe 
use rver 
and welcome a new coaching staff. It is a chance 
for Notre Dame football fans to look toward the team's performance on game days. future, no matter what their opinion might be With Weis now residing in South Bend. students, 
Editorial 
season is certainly possible, it isn't guaranteed solely because of a new coach. 
But while Irish fans can't necessarily expect perfection on Saturdays in Weis's first year, they should hope he continues to facilitate the exceptional performance of Notre Dame football players on Sunday through Friday. One of Willingham's biggest strengths was the guidance he provided for his players. This trend must be maintained during Weis' time as coach, on top of improving the 
about the decisions of the past. 

Irish fans can surely be excited about the arrival of Weis, who brings his nasty, no-nonsense coaching style to a football team with the talent to perform well next season. He also brings a strong coaching record in the NFL that includes plenty of wins and -maybe most importantly -a few championships. He is known for turning little-known athletes into stars. But the Notre Dame faithful must also be patient through next year while play­ers adjust to the new coaching staff. Though a much-improved 
alumni and fans have the chance to welcome him as the new football coach. just as tl1f.}j did three. years ago for Willingham. It is also a chance for Wcrs to become more involved with the students around campus. Bringing Weis to the dorms would be a great way for students to get to know him better. 
After a tough bowl appearance, a difficult recruiting season and waiting for Weis to finish his position with the Patriots, the irish and their fans r,an finally relax and look forward to a new era in Notre Dame football. Coach Weis has arrived. 


Myths about Social Security 
For months, an expert on the Social Security Trust Fund has told anyone who would listen that Medicare coste; are more of a national "crisis" than the president's claim of Social Security. Tllis expert begins with Ronald Reagan, the last president to Gary Caruso keep Social Security solvent by raising taxes. Reagan sought enough Capitol excessive taxation to Comments create a huge trust fund surplus that in the future (now) would supplement the tremendous drain caused by massive "Baby Boomer" retirements. Reagan had no eye on his personal legacy, but on doing what was best for the nation at the time. 
The expert recalls that during last year's campaign, before Congress approved the new Medicare package, the president promised a cost-effective program. Yet rumors ran rampant that Republican appointees threatened to fire any career federal employee who failed to publicly support the administration's claim that Medicare prescription costs totaled about $400 billion over a 10-year span from 2004 to 2013. 
Furthermore, the expert indignantly notes that after the embargo on civil ser­vants ended when President George W. Bush signed the provision into law, Congress soon learned that the figure immediately ballooned to a more realistk cost of$534 billion. On Wednesday, updat­ed long-term projeeted costs for years 2006 to 2015, adding just two new years to the projection, increased estimates from $534 billion to $723 billion for the newly­initiated prescription drug coverage. At last. a sticker-shocked Washington official­ly heard that expert loud and clear. 
Medicare costs will begin to increase a minimum of$100 billion per year, in each year beyond 2013. That is a fiscal crisis worth noting. It is the monetary equivalent 
"of yearly American expenditures for one and a quarter Iraqi war efforts. A fiscal fiasco will lay upon our doorstep a full thirty years before the current Social Security structure even begins to. approach shortfalls after 2042. 
Why do so many Americans accept the president's rhetoric? First, most Americans wrongly think that Soda! Security is either an investment pension vehicle (Republican rhetoric) or a pension insurance vehicle (Democratic rhetoric). Social Security was a redistribution from those with jobs to those without or a col­lective cooperative effort to provide a min­imum safety net during the Great Depression. At its inception, for every retiree collecting Social Security, sixteen workers shared the burden. lt was not designed to gather great investment returns. Nor was it designed to replace private pensions. 
Secondly, many younger Americans 
believe that Social Security will not survive 
by the tin1e they retire. They know that 
today, three and a half workers support 
each retiree, but that number will drop to 
two workers for each retiree in a decade. 
Yet, young workers do not understand that 
at the current rate, with no changes at all, 
Social Security would not shortchange 
them. If nothing was done for nearly fifty 
years, it only falls one-third short of neces­
sary funding levels around 2050. 
Easy, rather simple fixes have already 
been proposed to keep Social Security sol­
vent. The largest senior citizens' organiza­
tion (AARP) advocates restoring the total 
wages taxed for Social Security to 90 per­
cent of nationwide earnings. A gradual, 
decade-long phased increase would move 
the cap for each wage earner of $90,000 
in 2005 to a $140,000 cap. 
Others advocate eliminating caps and creating a larger initial exemption ffloor) for those less able to afford taxation while taxing 100 percent of income above that floor. They fall baek on the initial spirit of -Social Security. That is, they maintain that those with higher .incomes who can most afford the tax share should bear a larger 
portion of the cooperative burden. They 
also guarantee solvency well beyond this 
century . 

Thirdly, Bush's focus-group driven 
phrases seem to make sense while he 
blends issues to blur the truth. For exam­
ple, Bush prefers to call the accounts "per­
sonal'' to appeal to greed and convey own­ership rather than "private" which con­jures a feeling of exclusion for others. To support his contention that "you" can do better, he may say, "You only get two per­cent return on current Social Security funds now when you can get more by investing in the stock market." 
Nations like Chile, Argentina, Canada and Great Britain have attempted various personal accounts, but all have suffered losses. Chile first converted its equivalent government system entirely to private accounts in 1981. Today, their average payment is $125 per month per person. Argentina originally linked its similar sys­tem to the American dollar but converted back to its native currency during a reces­sion and suffered huge losses. 
In an effort to garner a greater return for all retirees, Canada elected to manage and invest its entire fund without convert­ing to individual personal accounts. It lost tens of millions as well. Britain's 25-year quest for greater return on investment col­lapsed when the costs of administering the personal accounts reduced their fund by ahnost 30 percent. Today, while the annu­al average U.S. Social Security payment is $11,000, the British equivalent is $8,000. 
Finally, nobody knows the effect of Bush's proposal if billions of new dollars surge into the U.S. stock market. Remarkably, Wall Street has remained silent on the Bush proposaL Maybe they have no way of calculating how to balance the ruany Baby Boomers who will·with­draw billions from the market as they retire. thus tilting the market in the oppo­site direction. Maybe tlmy realize that Medicare is the great white elephant looming beyond the horizon. Or maybP they see that unlike Reagan. this president merely keeps his eye on ideolo!,ry and lega­cy. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73. served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clintons administration. !lis column appears every other Friday. HP can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those q{ The OfJserver. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Nicole Zook Dan Tapetillo Katie Perry Bobby Griffm 
Do you feel your professors' Mary Kate Steve Coyer political beliefs affect how Malone Scene they conduct themselves in Viewpoint Becca Saunders the chissroom? N/A Alyssa Illustrator 3% Brauweiler Katie Knorr 
*Poll appears courtesy of Graphics www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 248 responses. 
Mike Harkins 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination." 
Nelson Mandela former president of South Africa 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, February I I, 2005 page II 
Copyright in a free society 
Tlw waxPd and laequnrnd halls of tlw commnrcial lnternnt notwithstand­ing, a large portion of the Web is an Pnormous c:ollection of cliques, the majority of whieh are randy, if ever, 
callNI to the attention  
of Llw outside world.  Lance Gallop  
Some of these would  
undoubtedly shock your grandmotlwr,  The Third Way  
should she lind you a  

member of one, but most are inno­cent, if unusual. !\ few even manage to cross the line into remarkable. 
Tlw fanlktion community is unique cwnn among these groups, because its primary purpose is creation (it is most defiantly not engaged in piracy) and dnspitP this, it is undnniably illegal. Fanlidion is a narrow class of litera­turn. which borrows significant aspPets of a story, normally characters and sometimns plot, from other soun:Ps. Popular litnrary works, movins. tnlevision and nven the livns of ndPbritins are all fair gamn. 
Like• many diques, fanf'ietion writnrs spnak in a kind of code that discour­af.{ns outsiders (tlwy share this with hadc~rs. rops and invostmont hankPrs). hut if you know the lan­guage, and whore to look, a quiek searrh rnV(Htls hundrPds of thousands of works of fanf'icl.ion base1d, most commonly, on "llarry Potter," "Tho Lord of' the Hings," "The OC," Japanese anime, video games and 
hundreds of other nuggets of pop cul­ture. Each writer reinterprets the work with his or her own unique 
vision. 
What you will not f'ind, unless you dig very deeply, is anything based on the works of Disney, /\nne Riee and any of the entities that police their copyrights with rigor. Fanfietion exists only with the implieit blessing or igno­rance of others-the smallest whiff of a cease-and-desist letter and it will disappear. In this regard, fanfiction is very fragile. 
It is not surprising that the Disneys of the world are not pleased with fan­lktion. Some of the portrayals of' their creations are. fringe, violent, crotie, out-of-character or otherwise unac­ceptablf1 to elnan-nos~~d family-orient­ed eompanins, or current conservative sentiments. Not all are like this, but lawyers are not renowned for their pationco, and they targot the innocent with the guilty. 
But despite these unsavory aspects, or perhaps because of them. f'anl1etion plays an essential, but yet unrocog­nized role in our culture. because it is p11rhaps the last battle of a war being fought over the soul of copyright. 
Wo are living in a privileged age­sumo of the great masterworks of the 
early 20th century entered into public domain before tho copyright expan­sion movement took foot. "The Wizard of Oz," for example, has spawned dozens of books, several movies ­including one masterpiece -and a very successful Broadway musical. Ilad the copyright persisted for anoth­er hundred years, perhaps a movie would have been created-much like "The Lord of the lUngs" today-but the vast majority of that culture would have been lost, because many of the individuals for whom Oz was a eentral part of life and culture would have been long dead. 
Some the interpretations of "The Wizard of Oz" would doubtlessly have sent Baum into a rage. Some of the stories contain rape and murder for example, and Baum was very much against this. But this does not mater any more, because "The Wizard of Oz" belongs to the public, and the publie alone. It is a part of our culture, and it is our duty to make of it what we will, good or evil. puerile or majestic, but above all new, and above all ours. 
It is our present culture that l'anf1c­tion writers are exploring, an area otherwise elosed ofT by copyright. and its almost everlasting duration. Our ability to re-appropriate our own cul­ture, today and now. and as we see it, is torn away from us. When the time eomns that wn may elairn it as our own. all those who earn will bn gonn. 
Only the fanfiction writers havn the guts to stand against tlw destruction of the intellnctual and cultural com­mons in an act of civil disobndinnee. Only the fanliction writc•rs arn pub­lishing the storins, and idnas, the myths and mistakes of thn eulturn of the minute. 
I'll be absolutely frank-the vast majority of' fanf'iction is badly writtc111, shortsighted, cliche and boring. But is it any less worthy of the sort of' pro­tection enjoyed by parody, whieh also by its very nature cannot exist with the consent of a copyright holdnr? Is it any lnss necessary for us to havn a venue whern we ean exprnss id11as about our prnsent culture, whethnr or not the copyright holdnr earns nitlwr way? For nw thn answnr is elnar, and I will side with the writnrs of fanf1e­tion. 
/,ance Gallop is a .fifth-year senior majoring in computer science. philoso­phy and theology. lle welcomes com­ments and criticisms. but please do not send requests for technical sup­port. lle can be reached at lgallop@nd. edu. 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those of the author and not 1/l'C('S­sarily those of The Ob.•wrN'r. 

~---~_-_-==:..-==-=================================================================================================== 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Right to Life 
out of line 
TlwrP was a talk schndulnd to takn placn at Notn1 Damn about the vital issw~s of rapn and violnnce against women. This talk, sponsomd by various acadmnie dnpartmnnL-;, was supposnd to be by Eve Enslor. It's caru:diPd now. See, according to our earnpus Hight to Life organiza­tion. tho evnnt was basimlly a covnrt opc~ration to promote pro-choice idnologie~s. Touting this unsubstantiatnd mndusion, Notrn Dame Hight to I.W1 succnssl'ully prnssurnd the University into to shutting the event down. 
Orw of' Hight to l.ili~'s problems with the talk is that the speaker her­snlf' is a pro-rhoice advocatn. I guaranten many ofour professors and gtwst spnak11rs hem at Notro Damn also have political or personal viPwpoinL-; that go against Catholic doctrinn. Some may nvnn exprnss llwm on-eampus. Thn poinl is, Eve Ensl11r is not hom to talk about abortion. Shn is lwr11 as part of' tho V-l>ay movement, to stop violence~ against women. 1\nslnr is a fi1-,rure lemding this vnry important light for wonwn. and mgardlnss of' her other vinws, tlwrn is a lot that we could lnarn from lwr. 
Tlw larger problnm that Hight to Lifn had with the t>vent is that part of iL-; procm~ds worn intendnd to go to S.O.S., a counseling enntnr f(Jr vietims ofsexual violence, and the rest to the local YWCA. 
Tlw YWCA. also known as the Young Womnn's Christian A-;sodation, lwlps wonwn in timns of crisis. It is also an organization that support-; lili1 in thousands of ways. such <L<; hoi ping pregnant women who have dwsen lili1 to lind slwlt11r and afl'ordabln housing, vocational tmining and thP earn thny nnPd. But despite iL-; nll'orL-; to support womcm who chose lifi1, tho National YWCA snns a di11i~rnnce between crisis prng­nandns as a soda! issun, and tho political issun of abortion, in which tlwy f(~nl that wonwn must make their own moral dodsions. So the YWCA, a "womnn's nwmb11rship movement nourished by iL-; rooL-; in the Christian faith and sustained hy tho richness of many bPiiels and valuns" (from thnir mission statnnwut) is pro-choice? EsporJally after voluntnnring at a prngnancy shnltnr. which dosoly coopnratnd with tho YWCA, I would argue that thnir work is in many, morn important ways. 
pro-Iii(~. 

II' Hight to Lifn neverthdnss reels strongly that the YWCA is not an organization that tho Univ11rsity should assist, why not eneouragn those planning this nvnnt to lind other, 11qually nnedy women's organizations'? Why try to stilln an nwntthat addrnssns tlw urgnnt and pnrtinnnt issuc~s of rapn and violnncn? Why turn the f(Jeus solely to abortion at thn nxpnnsc1 of this important mission? 
I am shocknd that Hight to Life, an organization dndieatnd to protnet­ing and rnspncting lili1 in all forms, would let this opportunity to fight violenee bn taknn away. 
Catherine Schmidt senior Pasquerilla East hall Feb. 10 

Reclaitning the 'queer' title 
A-; a membnr of the Standing Committee For Gay and Lnsbian Student Needs, I am of'tnn asknd what I think about the Princeton Hnview's ranking of' Notre Dame as the least tolerant sehool in the eountry. When asked, I reply that Noire Dame must bnjudged from two dil1immt levels. On one level is the administration, which seems to be somewhat homophobic. Conversely, thn other level, the eam­pus and the student body, seems to be a community that is accepting and welcoming of all people. I feel my response may change, and I fenI myself slightly morn aligned with the Princeton Hnview's analysis of our University after reading the most recnnt issue of' the Irish Hover. 
The Hover's homophobie agenda is explicit in snvnral artidns. One is emtitled, "Qunnrs Take Ov0r D-P/\C." This artide is meant to be a dimet wsponse to this weekend's Queer Film f<estival, and the contrast is apparnnt from ewm the title. The word 'quoer' has been usc~d as derogatory term li1r people of altnrnative sexualities, but the gay movement has rndaimed the term, attemptnd to rnmovn the pc;jorativn moaning, and allowl'd 'queer' to bneonw a word that reminds one of tlw gay rights mov-<1ment and the gay intnllnetual movmnent. hemee iL-; usn in the title of thn film f(1sti­val. By claiming that 'qunPrs' arn taking owr tlw place, tho Howr uses the word in a dnmgatory way and in doing so attnmpL-; to disparagn what tlw Qunnr Film Fl'stival snnks to c·debratn: the positivn attributes and fulfilling liws ofgay and lesbian pPo­ple. 
The Hover's disgusting rnmarks should not bn tol­nratnd on this eampus. llopnfully t.hny will not bl'. llopnf'ully this typn of ideology is only lwld by a li1w who makn Thn Hover. llopnfully gays and lnshians at Notre Damn will lind a campus and a student body who will accept Uwm and lovo thmn <L<; human beings. llopPfully. 
Robby Davidson sc..·uior Fisher llall h·h. 10 


Speak up for Catholic values 
Strong bnlinf.<>, upright prindples and relibrious morals are hilarious. Hnali:.dng I'm a huge squarn by modern standards, I f(Jnl eompolled to say morn people at Notre Dame need to speak up lbr the tm­ditional, Catholic values they believe in. While rnad­ing Paul KPllnnr and Maurenn Hitche1y's Feb. 7 lnt.­ter, ''Hnvue hits wrong buttons," I too told mysolf' they had to be joking. Initially surprised by two stu­denL-; opening themselves to the ridicule sure to fbi­low sueh a prudish letter of virtuous ideals, it was quickly apparent the two were only mocking the thoughL<> they presented. 
Joseph King very astutely pointed out in his Feb. 9 letter, "people who honestly believe" what Kellner and Hitchey wrote (gasp) do exist. llowever, decent people have bnc:omn animated punch-lines for King, Kellner, Hitchey and our hip mainstream culture, even here at the leading Catholic university, Notre Damn. 
I did, as a "consenting adult," attend Kennan's Hnvue last Friday. Admittedly it was humorous and entertaining (even if weak relative to the Dillon Hall Pep Hally every fall). Discussing the Hevue later made clear others shared my views. Although tunny, certain skiL<> were excessive, graphic and vul­gar about sex, m<L-;turbation and certain body part<; and fluids. There is sonwthing to bo said about sub­tlety, and in this case less would have been morn. Most attending wern all too lhmiliar with this sort of humor. Today it's common in our soddy, but doc~s this rwc:nssarily mean it is good or right'' 
Taking lil(l and comedy too seriously or over-ana­lyzing currnnt norms ofsodety is not my mission. A-; stated, I ean get many good laughs, nvnn while rnco!,rnizing some unsnmnly eontnnt. llowever, those individuals willing to moc:k wholesomn standards should get a lifi~. King rightly obsnrvns it W!L<; a com­edy routine and yes, I saw only "eonsmting aduiL<>." But King is unequivoeally wrong in his eontemtions about Notre Damn. A-; a privatn, Catholic univnrsity, Notrn Dame has every right not to r.ondonn sw:h productions. A-; an int11rnsting side not11, lm-; every­one heard it's "Notre Dame's 2nd Annual Queer Film Festival" wonk'? Finn By Me, I supposn-hap­piness at Our Lady's University. 
Dave Daley 
sophomore 
Dillon hall 
reh. 10 


THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 12 
Friday, February 11, 2005 
'Score' entertains at the PAC 
Actor Tom Nelis portrays Leonard Bernstein with an open and engaging manner at the Leighton Concert Hall 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
Scene Writer 

As audience members enter the theater for "Score," they see actor Tom Nelis slumped over a podium. The set around him consists of music stands, stage lights, a bottle of scotch, a mirror suspended behind him and an abstract, brasslike object lying on the ground. 
A sound cue -a repetitive tone pulsing through the splmkers-brings Nelis' body to life. But it does­n't come to life gracefully. Nelis coughs and gasps harshly. his spine contorting as he rises upwards. "Where am I?" he mutters. "Who are you?" he asks upon seeing the audience. 
Tlw man asking these questions, however, is no longer Tom Nelis. Tho actor has become the alluring conductor and composer Leonard Bernstein, one of tl111 most dominant figures of classical music in the twentieth century. This is no longer a play -it's a seminar. with the topic of the creative process and how Bernstein gains inspiration with regards to both conducting and composing. 
The house lights are drawn up in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, and Bernstein asks the audience, who intriguingly become his students, "What is music?" 
"Art," responds a woman in the front row. 
"I can't argue with that," replies the teacher. He scans the room for further opinion on the composure of music. 
"Sound," answers a man a few rows back. Again, forms when ruminating on past performances -Interaction with the audience is also critical to Bernstein agrees. From these modest beginnings, most notably, his conducting of Mahler's Ninth Nelis' performance. A wonderful moment of the show Bernstein takes the audience through the entire Symphony. He describes the final page of the work occured when a few students arrived at the show spectrums of his life -his relationship with his with enormous passion, more so than anything else late, and Nelis called out to them, "Good evening! father, his life-changing debut with the New York in the hour and a half he appears on stage. Leonard Bernstein. We're gonna talk about art." At Philharmonic -all in the name of discovering where "Score" is also very physically demanding of the one point Bernstein even asked the audience if they his creativity lies. actor portraying Bernstein. With sweat visibly rolling minded if he smoked. As several audience members 
Throughout the majority of "Score," Bernstein dis­down his face after 45 minutes, Nelis danced, sang replied "yes," Nelis gave them a wry look and asked, plays his emotions at their most extreme. In explain­and crawled his way towards Bernstein's moment of "Is my wife out there?" ing why artists must have a sense of humor, he inspi~ation: the final moments of Mahler's Ninth, in The script for "Score" is completely adapted from moons the audience. Only a few moments later, he which Nelis conducts the music as closely as possible both writings and interviews with Bernstein. becomes very calm when explaining the importance to what the real "Lenny" would have done. "It's all 100 percent Bernstein," Nelis said. "It was of patience, a quality taught to him by composer "[The play] is a juggling act of text, music and the arranged by Jocelyn Clark, an Irish playwright. Aaron Copland. Even when subdued, Bernstein main­physical action," Nelis said after the show. "This play Bogart gave him 300 pages of manuscript and he tains very little restraint, grabbing a smoke whenev­was created three years ago, and Anne Bogart, the whittled it down to 30." er it seems convenient, claiming, "I know it's bad for stage director, told me it was going to take two years Nelis resounded the comments that many perform­me, but I like it too much!" He even shows signs of to figure it out, and it truly has." ers have said regarding the Leighton Concert Hall. giddiness when first reaching for the scotch. Bernstein's flamboyant gesturing has a virtuosic "It's a magnificent space," he said. "Bernstein says 
His other onstage compulsion is his constant "con­explanation, Nelis said. in the play, 'It's an inspiration to be here with you in ducting." He constantly makes hand gestures coin­"Unconsciously, Bernstein's always conducted," this room,' and it really is an inspiration." ciding with what he says, and this actually connects Nelis said. "He riffs on this 'tranced state' and he's with the various tidbits of conducting Bernstein per-not always aware of what he's doing." Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 


ffiANC"Ero~siEEVTA!ThVT e Observer 
"Score" was an interactive show with Tom Nelis, above, posing multiple ques­tions to the audience and encouraging their participation at different points. 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Friday, February I I , 200'5 
Ebersol brothers present film 
"Ithuteng" documents the story of people involved in a school confronting the current issues of South Africa 

By BECCA SAUNDERS A.sistalll Scene Editor 
Whnn givnn a brnak from school most students dwoso to sleep or play video games. Notre Dame senior Charlie 1\b«~rsol dndded to go to South Africa to edit and produce a lilm about a political issun of that area. The film, called "lthutnng," which moans "never stop h~arning," ((H~uses on the lives of thron South African students that attnnd a school found1~d by a woman called Mama .Iackie in I 997. 
In what was called "a post-apartheid mirado," with Nelson Mandola's aid, the occontrie Mama .lar.kin bngan the llhutnng Trust in Sowoto, South Africa. According to Ebnrsol, the school was developed in tlw wakn of "an unparal­lnlod rise in crime, drug trallieking, and rape among tlw country's youth." 
Mama .larkin has utilized "shockingly unique mluralional proeessos and thn opportunity ((Jr a bolter lifo to motivate :{,500 I:{-to 27-y«Htr-old rape victims, drug addicts and criminals,'' aeeording 
l.o the "lthutPng" prnss release. The lilrn is hasPd on t.hrPP lirst-pnrson nar­ratPCI stories told hy thP three main rharartnrs of t.lw lilm. 
J."ourl.enn-ynar-old Dinno is an orphaned rape victim that is new to Mama Jackie's school. The second sub­jed is a 22-year-old man named Lebo. lie was one of Mama Jackie's original six students and is a rape victim infect­ed with "JIIVIAIDS." Vietor, a 26-year­old rnformnd criminal is the third inter­view. lie helps Mama Jackie run the school with his "infectious charisma." Testimonials from these three men begin and set the tone of the emotional and serious tilm. 
After introductions of the thrnn men, "lthuteng" follows the students on a "tumultuous journey from the school to Johannesburg's maximum-security prison, 'Sun City,' to a wilderness camp in Kwazaulu-Natal hintnrland,'' Eb1wsol said. 
First-time director and 16-year-old William Ebersol directed "Ithutheng." Older brother Charlie Ebersol served as producer and editor, and friend Kip Kroger helped with various aspects of the film. Charlie Ebersol explains that beyond the documentary format, the film also l(mturns a "unique format for dramatizations, in which the student, whose story is being told, dirocts a rmmaetment of the trauma from his or her own life." 
Charlie 1\bnrsol, who linishnd dasses at Notro Dame in Dncnmber, was a large part of student government dur­ing his time at Notrll Dame. He ran for studPnt body president twice, losing by narrow margins in 2003 and 2004. A<> manager of the Student Union Board for the 2003-04 term, Ebnrsol was an· influential voice in the new and current student government structure. The Ebersol family has recently boon in the media spotlight after a tragic plane crash in which Ehersol's younger broth­er Teddy died. Charlie Ebersol is credit­ed with pulling his NBC sports execu­tive father Dick Ebersol from the plane wreckage and thus saving his life. 
The screening will take place in the Browning Family Cinema in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts on Sunday 4 p.m. The 75-minute film is open to the Notre Dame commu­nity and will be complimented by com­ments by Charlie Ebersol. With a unique vision into the situation of South Africa, "Ithutcng" is called by Ebersol, "a story of hope, love and redemption through the power of education and one woman's vision," Ebersol said. Tiekets are free for tho Notre Dame rommunity and ean bn picked up at the DeBartolo Box Ollice. 
Contact Becca Saunders at saunders.B@nd.edu 

page 13 

Heavenly Ham lives up 

to the name 

By MEGAN McFADDEN and 
JESSICA STOLLER 
Scent' Writers 
On many of our fn•qunnt safaris through thn outskirts of Notrn Damn. we 1meountPr a curious restaurant. rallnd IltHtvnnly llam. Last W1Hlrwsday. al'tnr Mngan forgot to nat lunrh once again, we hoppnd into the buggy to scour for food. Thnn wn ranw upon llnav1mly I lam and Megan rriml "Tis a hiPss­ing from above! W«~ must partake in this !'Past of hamilidous dnlight!" 
Well. mayhn slw rPally didn't say that. but Megan dons havl' a thing for ham. always has. 
llnawnly I lam is a quaint restaurant locat­nd on J·:dison rwxt to a furwral honw. It is a great place for a midday lunrh delight or snrrnt rnndnzvous with that spncial somPorw. 
The atmosplwrn at llnavnnly Ilam was slightly confusing. I guess you could rail it General Store nwnts fast-food elwin. The d1kor induded plnnty of rml gingham, home­made jams, pkkln rnlish. handmadn woodnn displays of preserved itmns and very few tables. A giant. Cokn dispt~nsnr and snvnral large posters encouraging pork product eon­sumption intorruptnd this "farrny" jungle. 
..

The hammy sound of silnnce at lloavenly !lam was very pleasing, until a loud, con­stant, 80's-like ring tone broke the dangling conversation and the superfieial sighs. I gunss what we're trying to say is the atmos­phere at double II was just ok, about 2.5 sporks out of 5. 
So now you're this far into our artide, I bet you're wondering how thoy servo it up at Heavenly llam. Sinee lleavnnly llam mimics many fast-food chains, there really isn't much serviee involved in the dining experi­ence. A lone ham artistn crafts your sand­wieh into an opieurean delight, wraps it in deli paper and gives it to you with glee. Tlwro really isn't much to it (but don't tell the cashier that). Service was prompt eonsidnr­ing only one artiste was on duty. Bnsides hav­ing to !ill your own glass with Coke producl-;, the serviee was friendly and prntty spnody. We'd say 3.5 sporks give or take a prong. 
Now to our, well mostly .Jossica's, favorite part-TilE EATS! Surprisingly, neither of us got ham. Isn't that silly? Mogan ordered a chicken salad sandwkh on a croissant and chieken noodle soup. The croissant was vnry frnsh and !laky, sort of likn hnr last boyfrinnd, and the chieken salad did not disappoint. The soup was tongun-l'larning hot, but it was serumtrulnsenn t. 
The only thing that was rallwr disappoint­ing was tho high prkns. A nwro box lunch without a drink t~ould msl. up to $8-oh my! Financn-savvy Jnssica dncidnd on half' a turkey bistro sandwich with cup of thn samn ehkknn noodiP soup..lnsska would like to rnport on tlw tastn of lwr sandwich, hut, sadly. her l.astP buds worn down for thn count dun to thn !laming soup. She did, howevm, remark it had good I.Pxlun1 and was very plc~asing to llw nyP. Consid1~1'ing thai. we rPal­ly likn how homn-cookPd tlw food was. we givn l.lw ((md at 112 5 sporks. 
Upon lnaving llnavPnly llam, tlw ownnr locked thn door. This could nwan orw of two things. Eil.hnr wn wen1 sud1 a mnn;u~n to thn ham community for ordering chicken that tlwy nPVPr wanted us back again, or they dosn at 3 p.m. If tlwy dos11 at :~ p.m., that's rPally sad. Thny «wnn l.urrwd down a SW(~Pt old lady with a g(•nuirw ham craving as we wnrn lnaving. Basnd on our taste bud tally, lleavenly I lam is worthy of about 3 and one­third sporks out of' live. So if' hurgnrs and bagnls don't lit your fancy, don't fret, becausn lleavenly I lam is just a hop. skip and a jump away from campus. 
Contact Megan McFadden at mmcfadO 1 @saintmarys.edu and 
Jessica Stoller at jstoliO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 11, 2005 
NFL 


Chargers' Brees hopeful for contract extension 
San Diego considers franchise tagging the Pro Bowl quarterback 
Associated Press 
Drew Brees came to Hawaii four years ago as a college all­star out of Purdue, looking to impress NFL teams at the Hula Bowl. 
Brees is back on the islands, praeticing with the league's best and preparing for his first appearance in the Pro Bo.wl. And h()'s looking for respect and a long-term contract from the San Diego Chargers. 
Less than a year after San Diego all but gave up on him by selecting Philip Rivers on draft day, Brees is still basking in the glow of his superb season and the Chargers' run to the AFC West title. 
His performance at the end of his four-year contract earned him a spot alongside Peyton Manning and Tom Brady on the AFC roster for the NFCs all-star game Sunday. It also made him one of the NFl:s most attractive free agnnts, but Brees would rather remain with the club that didn't seem eager to stick with him. 
"I want to stay in San Diego, absolutely," he said. "I want a long-term deal. because I feel like I'm the guy. I'm the guy that needs to be there and lead son, making his second Pro us to a ehampionship, so that's Bowl appearance, also wants the way I feel about it. Brees to stay, but the star run­

"The ball is in their eourt, ning back said he has no control obviously, and we'll just see over the situation. Tomlinson what happens." and Brees are close friends, and 
Brees' life has changed dra­they planned to spend much of matically in the four years since their free time in Hawaii togeth­he represented Purdue in the er with their families. 
Hula Bowl.  "He's  a  leader.  
"I got married,  That sums it up in  
had good seasons and bad seasons, battled for my starting job on  'Tm the guy that needs to be there and lead us to a  one word," Tomlinson said. "He's a good friend and a good team­ 
two occasions, been benched a few times," he said. "I guess it's  championship, so that,s the way I feel about it. ,,  mate." Brees and Tomlinson are San Diego's first quar­ 
been a  learning  terback-running  
experience, but it has molded me into the person  Drew Brees Chargers' quarterback  back duo to make the Pro· Bowl together since Dan  
and player that I  Fouts and Chuck  
am now."  Muncie  in  the  

Brees was voted the NFL's early 1980s. Tight end Antonio comeback player of the year Gates also made the trip to after throwing for 3,159 yards, Hawaii, earning his first Pro 27 touchdowns and just seven Bowl berth in just his second interceptions in the regular sea­NFL season. son. In the playoffs, he passed "Obviously, with guys like LT for 319 yards and two TDs in and Gates, I think we built a the Chargers' 20-17 overtime solid foundation," Brees said. "I loss to the New York Jets. think we all see in one another 
"We didn't accomplish our that we can build something ultimate goal to win a ehampi­special with the Chargers. We onship, but we kind of paved want to keep that continuity the way for the future," he said. and keep those familiar faces "We have a lot to be proud of around." and a lot to be happy about. We The Chargers might designate just have to keep improving." Brees as their franchise player 
Teammate LaDainian Tomlin-this month, giving him a one-year contract offer worth around $9 million. If Brees signs it, the club then could trade him or let him compete for the starting job with Rivers, who was obtained in a draft-day trade with the New York Giants. 

Rivers held out for half of training camp, allowing Brees t9 keep the starting job -and Brees used the challenge to motivate himsnlf to his best pro­fessional season. And just as he did four years ago at the Hula Bowl, when many questioned his future as a 6-foot NFL quar­terback, Brees is proving he's one of the best. 
Vick fired up going into Pro Bowl, out to prove himself 
Associated Press star can do. in the game in their first full year Knapp revitalized the Faleons, hits. Knapp has installed a varia­
"Definitely, I'm focused on this as starters. But Vick skipped the who won their division and tion of the Faleons' offense for 
Michael Vick and Donovan game a whole lot," Vick said. Pro Bowl to get a bunion reached the NFC championship the NFC squad, and Vick knows it McNabb huddled in front of their ''I've been thinking about it since removed from his right foot. game. as well as anyone. lockers at Aloha Stadium on our season ended in Atlanta. This He figun~d he would have plen­"This might be his first time in "He's going to havfl all eyes on Thursday, gooting on any NFC is the first chance I'm going to ty of chances to get to Hawaii if Hawaii, but hn'll probably be set­him when he goes in there," teammate crossing their paths have to line up against the best of he kept playing well -but then ting up camp here every McNabb said. "Evl:lrybody knows and making plans for a night out the best, so if you can't end the he broke his leg in the 2003 pre­February for a long time," said what he can do in a real game. on Waikiki Beach. season with a championship, this season, and the resulting disaster Mora, who's coaching the NFC Now we'll get to sne what he 
Sure, the Pro Bowl week isn't is one of the next-best ways." in.Atlanta eventually led to coach squad. "With his abilities, if we docs when nobody ran blitz you. exactly the toughest stretch of Vick has become one of the Dan Reeves' firing. can put a team around him that's It could be scary." the NFL season, but Vick is tak­NFCs most popular, versatile and "I wasn't thinking about the going to be successful every year, Vick passed for 2.323 yards ing it seriously enough that his electrifying players in his four Pro Bowl at the end of last year," there's no reason he won't be one and 14 touchdowns this season, fellow all-stars and the Atlanta seasons, but he hasn't made a Vick said. "That was the last of the dominant quarterbacks in and he rushed for 902 yards and coaching staff have teased him Pro Bowl appearance yet. thing on my mind." this league." three more scores. !lis passing about it. He was selected for the NFC Everything changed this season Though McNabb and numbers weren't spectacular in 
In between spending time with squad after his breakout season when Vick got back on his preco­Culpepper have seniority on Vkk, his first season in the West Coast his family and his closest friends two years ago, joining Dan cious learning curve. With their they won't be surprised if Vick offense, but his uncanny running from around the league, Vick Marino, Brett Favre, Kurt quarterback's maturity and lead­plays extensively in the second abilities and his strong arm were also is hoping to make an Warner, Daunte Culpepper and ership skills growing with every half of the Pro Bowl, where blitz­more than enough to earn the impression on anybody who still Tom Brady as the only second­passing week, coach Jim Mora ing isn't allowed and no defend­respect of the players and fans doesn't know what the Falcons year quarterbacks to earn a spot and offensive coordinator Greg ers try to deliver career-ending who voted for him. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must he prepaid.. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all clas,;ifieJs for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART-TIME SALESPERSON. EARNINGS UPTO $1000/WK. KNOWLEDGE OF PAINTBALL HELPFUL 315-7275. START ASAP. 
Professional Mom needs help pick­ing up children from two area Catholic schools and taking them to a few afterschool activities between 3:00-6:00 p.m. Monday-Friday. Great kids-daughters ages 11 and 14; Great Pay! Schools and home close to NO and SMC. If transporta­lion is needed, car can be provided. Call Karen Stonehill272-5013 
Want a $10,000 scholarship for tuition? Want a great summer job? Here is your chance for both. E-mail 
Ndsummerjob@yahoo.com for more info BOUNCER WANTED LOCAL PUB 274-4145 532-4933 

FoR SALE 
One bedroom condo near UND. Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim Kollar 

FoR RENT 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 
6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm available NOW Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site park-ing. NO Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 
Great homes ideal for 3-6 students. Close to ND.Nice area. 
2773097 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI­
UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BEDROOM,TWO BATHS. 
HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005­2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS. 2-5-7-8 BEDROOM HOUS­ES. STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTE­NANCE STAFF ON CALL ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-2436 OR 
574-315-5032. 

5 bdrm on NO Ave available 05-06. 1000/mo. email ndhouses@ yahoo.com 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for 2005-06 sc:hool year. 
Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four indi­vidually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame. bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housin!l· Laundromat next door (drycleaning also), basement available for stor­age of bicycles,luggage,trunks,etc.,new furnace and central air,new kitchen including new stove and refrigera­tor, large living room for TV or enter­taining, free trash removaL 
Call 289-4071. 

2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. 1­car garage,close to NO. $850/mo. Call 574-329-0838. Jl,vaiLnow. 
Spotless Apartments Apartment Cleaning SPECIAL RATES FOR STUDENTS. Emergency Weekend Cle.aning Available. Call or Email for FREE Estimate Spotlessapartments@ com castnet 574-968-3670 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAM­PUS.$195/PERSON. AVAIL 05-06. 329-0308 
Attention 2005-06 Jrs & Srs, Grad Students. Rental Home avail.for 2 students. 9/12 mo. lease avaiL Fully furnished. All appliances, utilities,cable TV & high speed inter-net included.Off street parking, 4 rniles from NO. $465/mo/student 574-656-8695. 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year. Available June 1, 2005. 2 Bedrooms-2 Baths. Washer/Dryer, Security System, Fully Furnished 626-233-7373 or Salvaty @earth­link. net FOR RENT Exclusive Home Stables and Indoor Arena. Indoor swimming pool & Sauna. Call for details Judy 574-298-6217 
5-bdrm house. $400 per student All utilities included + washer, dryer, securi!:t s~stem. Call 315-3215. 
PERSONAL 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! 
SpringBreakTraveLcom 1-800-678­6386 
1994 NO grads hoping to adopt Please see ParentProfiles.com for more info 
(Arizona/Michael & Kathryn). 

Friday, I~ebruary II, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS 
PGA TouR 





Lefty fires a 62 at Spyglass 
Mickelson considers his driving distance as reason for success 
page 15 

NHL 
Two sides fail to reach agreement 
Associated Press  
Phil Micknlson ke11ps hitting it  
long and going low.  
Fn1sh ofT a r.arnnr-low (,() last  
WPI'k in l'honnix that led to his  
first victory of' thP ymtr. Mkknlson  
brokP tlw coursP rncord at  
Spyglass llill -tlw toughest  
eoursl' in tlw rotation -with a  
I0-undnr h2 that gave him a  
thw11-shot llmd Thursday in thn  
I'P!Jhle B11ad1 National Pro-Am.  
"llonPstly, J'vP IHWI1r drivnn it  
this far." Micknlson said.  
liP took advantagl' of' prisl.ino  
conditions on thn Monterey  
l'm1insula. with brilliant blue  
skins and only a traco of wind AP 
that rnad11 1'1~bble Beach, After shooting a 60 last week In Phoenix, Mickelson set a 
Spyglass and Poppy I !ills so tanH' course record 10-under, 62 Thursday at Spyglass Hill.  
that mon1 than half' tlw 180-man  
finld brokn par.  
/\nd as always. Miekelson was his 65 at Poppy Hills.  bonn driving the ball a lot longer  
a thrill a minute. But he !ward it.  than I did last year," Mir.kelson  
Onn hirdiP camo out of a bNI of' "Wn wem on the 1 Sth tee, and  said. "And all that wedge work  
icl' plant on tlw fourth holo. it's amazing to say this, but we  that I did last year and continued  
/\notlwr camn on the 527-yard hoard a roar," Sutherland said.  this year ... I'm starting to have a  
snVImth hole, wlwn Mickelson hit "That's got to be a couple miles  lot more wedges in. I'm taking  
a 6-iron oil' tlw cart path to thn away. We heard it pretty easily,  advantagn of it. I'm able to make  
mlgn of thn gronn and I thought it  a lot morn birdies now."  
and nasily got up can only be one  Thnre was no shortage of thosn  
and down. !In hit person. I'm not drivPr on tiw 325-"The best thing for sure it was him,  Thursday in some of the best conditions at Pebble in recent  
yard 17th holn that but a 62 atme is I've been  memory.  
lnft him S yards Spyglass? I'm suredriving the ball afrom the front of it was." tlw grnnn. l11ading lot longer than I The only ques­ "Even in a practir.11 round, I've never snen the weather this good around here," Howell said.  
to a tap-in birdie. did last year. " tion was which !\ 15-f'oot birdie shot produ<~nd the  lie also took advantage with a bogey-free round at Pebbl11  
on tlw final hole big d10er. It might gavn Miekl'lson a Phil Mickelson have bnnn the 40­ B11aeh, highlighted by an SO-foot bunker shot that graznd tho edge  
threw-shot lnad golfer foot chip-in f'rom  of the cup on the 1 Sth for a tap-in  
ovm· Davis l.ovn Ill. across the seeond  birdie.  
Charles ]lowell Ill, green, or the 4­ Good thing it didn't hit tho cup  
Knvin Suthnrland. wood on the 560­ on the lly, or it might have gone  
l>aniPI Chopra and lluntnr yard 14th hole to within 25 feet  in the ocean. Howell is still  
Mahan. liw an easy birdie.  haunted by his sand wedge into  
It was tiw largest lirst-round It's all starting to run together  the 18th green at Torrey Pines  
)pad at this tournamnnt since fi1r Mkkclson, lhe Masters cham­ last month that bounced out of  
Tom WaL-;on lnd by thl'lll' in 1978. pion who already is making a lot  the eup and into the pond, r.ost­ 
Mil'kPlson's (,2 was two shots of' noiso. It started with his 59 in  ing him a chance to win.  
hPt.tPr than tho previous coursn the Grand Slam of Golf' in llawaii  This was a tidy round on a  
rc1cord at Spyglass, last set by last November, then the 60 last  tame r.oursn, with birdies on all  
David Bnrganio filllr ynars ago. wnok in the FBH Opnn:  but one of' the par 5s and a  
"A h2 is good at Bermuda lin is using a Callaway proto­ steady diet of fairways and  
Du1ws," Sutlwrland said. "/\ 62 at type golf ball called "Jinx Tour  groel}s. Mahan and Chopra also  
Spyglass is a whole dif'f'ernnt 5(,," and maybe that numbnr is  played Pebble, while Sutherland  
story. That's an amazing round." around thn corner.  and Love had the bnst scorn at  
Sutlwrland didn't snn it; he shot "Thn biggnst thing f'or me is I've  Poppy llills.  

first maj<ir North Anwrican
Salvaging the rest of 
sports h~agun to lose an nntirP the season does not s1mson to a l;tbor dispute. 
"Since 110 material progrnss appear promzszng has biH\11 madn. and wP'rn within days of' having to can­Associated Press eel the s1mson. you'ro hit with the realization of what you 
The NIIL and the playnrs' haVP to do," Daly said. assoeiation broke ofT talks lie gave no encouragement 
·Thursday as tlw clock ticked that a deal could come in down to' a weekend deadline tinw. f'or saving what little is left of' "I don't know I'd say I'm the season. .• ff'Urprised," lw said. ''I'm dis­
"lt was a pointless meeting," appointed. I hopml that at tlw NIIL chief legal ol'f'ieer Bill end of the day that reason Daly said aftnr the four-hour would prevail, that we'd lw session. ablo to lind common ground, 
"We're not going to piek up and that we'd road1 an agrno­the phone this weekend." mnnt. That hasn't happened." union senior director Ted The lockout has wiped out Saskin said. "We're done." 824 of the 1,2:{0 regular-sea-
It was the second straight son games through Thursday, day of meetings in Toronto as well as this wm1knnd's aimed at ending the lockout, selwduled All-Star ganw. If but the lirst full session since thn season is cancnled, then• commissioner Gary Bettman is no telling when tlwre will told the union Wednesday that be NIIL hor.key again. a deal would need to bn ready "I have no idea as I sit lwn1 by the weekend to save the today," Saskin said. season. Daly said tlw l11ague had 
If the deadline was set to gone as far at it could, and pressure the players' assoda-reiterated that thP players' tion to give in to tho loagun's association would not give in salary-cap demand, it hasn't to the league's dmnand of a worked so far. link between rnvPnuos and 
"We were not deadline player costs. hunting in any way," Saskin The sides have boon assist-said. ed by mndiators -as recently 
Daly said the union brought as last week in Newark, N . .f. nothing new to Thursday's -but neither f'nlt that was meeting. how a deal would be worknd 
"Quite frankly, I don't know out. why they asked us to stay "This isn't a negotiation that overnight," Daly said. "I don't f'ailnd due to a lack of' under­know what their agenda was. standing," Daly said. "This is I just know there was no a negotiation that has f'ailnd progress." f'o r other reasons. I don't 
During the moeting at the think a mediator would lwlp league's office in Canada, the in this procoss." sides spent 2 1/2 hours l1t1d-On Wednesday. the Nlll. dling separately. presented the idea that a ·new 
No new meetings were deal bP made using the play­scheduled, and Daly and nrs' association's proposal Bettman immediately from Der.. 9 that inducted a returned to New York to pn~-luxury-tax systnm and a 24 pare for a normal work day pnreent salary rollback on Fridav. existing eontrar.ts. 
That won't be easy bocausn But if anv onn of' four linan­nvc)ry indication is that it will dal eonditfons snt forth by tlw be the last business day league wero oxenoded, then before the NIIL becomes tho tlw NIIL's salary-cap ofTI'r ... 

from last w1wk would go into efTnr.t the following s11ason. Teams would l.lwn lw forced to SJWnd at least $:{2 million on player costs but no morP than $42 million. including bnnnfits. 
Playnrs' assodation PXPc~u­tivP dirnctor Bob Goodenow said that at lnast 01w of tlw f'ou r limits would i mmndiatPiy be nxceodnd if' this deal wa~ put in phtcP, and ot.hnrs could be easily reached. 
Saski1i r.alled tlw proposal a public relations "gimmick" and tlw idna wasn't rnvisitl'd during Thursday's menting. Tlw players' association has steadfastly rnl'usNI to accept a salary cap as a solution to tlw stalnmato. 
!ERASMUS BOOKS :· Used Books bought and sold : • 25 Categories of Books •• 25,000 Hardback and : Paperback books in stock : • Out-of-Print search service 
'• Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 11, 2005 
NBA 


Francis drops 28 in Magic win over Atlanta 
Associated Press 
OHLANDO -The pressure has eased somewhat on Orlando Magie coach Johnny Davis, although tlwre were a few tense moments as his team frittered away a 20-point lead. 
Steve Francis scored 11 of his 28 points in the fourth quarter, inc! ud ing a game-deciding 17­footnr with 17 seconds to play, to help the Magic defeat the Atlanta Hawks 101-96. 
"A win against any team in this league is a good thing so yes, I'm feeling better," said Davis, who has taken criticism from general manager John Weisbrod for his team's recent slump. "We're still basically a new team and still going through growing pains, but you can't stop. You've got to keep working at it and we are." 
Francis, who also had nine assists and s-even rebounds, hit his key shot after Atlanta cut its deficit to 97-94 with 38 seconds left on a 3-pointer by Antoine Walker. 
It was only the second win in the last six games for Orlando, which has sputtered to a 13-17 record after a surprising 13-6 start to the season. 
The Magic got 24 points from reserve Hedo Turkoglu and 15 points and 20 rebounds from rookie Dwight Howard, who became the first rookie since Tim Duncan in 1997-98 to record two 20-rebound games in a season. 

"That's just a scratch of what he could do for us night in and night out," Francis said. "l-Ie was a monster down there." 
Atlanta was forced to play without injured starters Tyronn Lue, AI Harrington and Josh Smith, but the Hawks got 25 points from backup point guard Tony Delk and 25 from Walker. Atlanta also got 19 points and 10 rebounds from rookie Josh Childress. 
"Our guys are playing hard," Atlanta coach Mike Woodson said. "With only 10 wins, we could easily throw in the towel. but we're not doing that. We played well enough to win this game. we just didn't get any breaks." 
Turkoglu, the only Magic reserve to score. had 13 of 15 points in a 15-3 run that gave Orlando a 56-38 lead with 2:04 left in the first half. Orlando pushed the advantage to 7 4-54 on two free throws by Howard with 5:51 left in the third quar­ter, then tried to coast. 
They barely made it as Delk put on a show in the fourth quarter with 12 points. 
"It's hard when you're up in a game for a long time like that," Francis said. "It's hard to con­sistently stay focused for that period of time. I'm definitely happy with the result. but we improved in some areas." 
Pistons 103, Lakers 81 
In a rematch of the NBA 
Finals. tho result was the same 
-a thorough thrashing of the 
Los Angeles Lakers by the · Detroit Pistons. 
Hasheed Wallace had 23 
points and a season-high 15 
rebounds and Tayshaun Prince 
scored 25 points as Detroit got 
off to a strong start and routed 
the Lakers in their first meeting 
since last June. 
The Pistons looked a lot like 
the team that disposed of Los 
Angeles in five games while 
winning by an average margin 
of 13 points, while the Lakers 
bear almost no resemblance to 
their predecessors from last 
season. 

The Pistons moved a half­
game ahead of Cleveland in the 
Central Division standings with 
their sixth win in seven games. 
They led by 14 points less than 
5 minutes into a game that was 
never in doubt. 
Los Angeles is 1-4 under 
interim coach Frank Hamblen, 
who replaced Rudy 
Tomjanovich when he suddenly 
resigned, and is 6-8 since Kobe 
Bryant went down with· a 
sprained ankle. Lamar Odom 
led the Lakers with 17 points and Caron Butler had 12. In his first game against his former team, Lakers guard Chucky Atkins scored just three points -10 below his average-on 1­of-7 shooting. 
Bryant wouldn't guess when he'll return, but said he plans on running during Saturday's practice after resting his ankle for a few days. Bryant was booed eaeh time he was shown on the videoboard above the court. 
Detroit's Chauncey Billups had 15 points and a season-high 11 assists, Ben Wallace grabbed 15 rebounds, Hichard Hamilton scored 11 and the Pistons had a season-high 30 assists. 

Not only are the Pistons clear­ly a better team than the Lakers, they were also much more rested. Detroit had a game for just the second time in eight days while the Lakers played their fourth in five nights. 
Detroit jumped out to an 18-2 lead as the Lakers had more turnovers [two) than field goals [one] and led 30-12 after the first quarter, outrebounding them 22-11. 

Pacers' Miller to retire at en'l of 2004-05 season 
ances, 131 playoff games and a home against Houston. Pacers history with 24,685 he can really be proud of is that
Guard's sister tells 

trip to the NBA Finals. He holds NBA records for points. he finished his career with one news Thursday on "Reggie said that it has been most 3-pointers made (2,505) "Reggie said, 'It's has been a team-something we don't see a great run, feels very positive and attempted (6,321) and is great run, a lot of wonderful a lot of in sports today," Cheryl TNT's NBA telecast with where the organization the all-time leading scorer in memories,' and the one thing Miller said. 
and the team is headed," Miller said during TNT's broadcast of
Associated Press 

the Lakers-Pistons game. "He said the one thing that he can 
Heggie Miller of the Indiana look back on in his career, bar­Pacers will retire at the end of ring the ugly situation in Nov­this season, his sister, Cheryl. ember here at Detroit; he says reported Thursday he has a lot of night on TNT. great memories."
"[Wednesday} I 
"Over the last Two weeks ago, couple of weeks spoke to Reggie, Miller angrily there has been a shot down anoth­
and after I8 
lot of speculation er TNT reporter's
.. seasons with the
on whether or not story that Miller this will be Heggie Indiana Pacers, had informed his Miller's last sea­this will definitely teammates of his son," Miller said. plans to retire.
be his last season." 
"[Wednesday) I Miller said if he spoke to Heggie, were to make and after 18 sea­Cheryl Miller such an sons with the announcement, ·
TNT broadcaster 
Indiana Pacers, he'd break the 
this will definitely news through his 
be his last season." older sister. 
Miller, 39, has been one of Miller is averaging 11.9 the league's best outside shoot­points as the starting shooting ers during a career that has guard for the Pacers. whose included five All-Star appear-next game is Friday night at 


G-reat Food! 
G-reat Fut1! 
NO I St. Marv's Appreciation Weekend Fridav & ~Saturdav, Februarv 11 &12 Buv Anv Be~werage & 2nd one is aPennv 9::00 PM to 12:00 PM 
Michiana's Best OJ Sh&IUD KeiiV-All Weekend No Cover with StudentiD 
Mm;t be 21 vears old with avalid 10 
~t Sports Jar it1 South Set1d 2046 South Set1d Ave .. Across frot~t Martit1s Plaza 272..1766 
-----~-

Priday, February II, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
TRACK & FIELD 

Piane looking for qualifying ti111es 
By NATHAN DYER 
Spons Wri1cr 
With only one week left bol'ore tho Big East Indoor Championships, and two bnl'ore the USATF Indoor Championships, tho Irish are looking to peak at just the right time. The team heads to Windsor, Ontario. to compete with the University of l>ntroit and four Canadian schools in the Windsor Team Challenge Saturday. 
Though it is a seoring meet, tho Irish will not bn sending a full contingnnt of athletes to Windsor -instead. they will oilly snnd a group of sprinters to tho competition. Irish coach .Jon l'iarw's skeleton crew will wnsist of about 20 sprinters who have all qualilied for Big 
l~ast wrnp1~tition. 
"They run on a 200-rneter track in Windsor," Piano said. "Which is something that our runners have ynt to do this year, I having run I most of their raens on a larger traek." The smallor track wi II provid11 the Irish with a change of pace in their linal tunn-up for the Big 
l~ast. 
Sprinting coach .John Millar is looking forward to the meet, as it will give the runners a chance to run in difl'erent rac11s from what many are used to. 
"They run a 300-meter and a bOO-meter as oppos11d to our usual 200-metp,r and 400­rnnt!\f' racns," Millar said. 

Leading the eharge for the Irish will again be senior hur­dler Sclim Nurudeen, who boasts three consecutive 110­mcter hurdles Big East Championships and looking to repnat as 60-metcr hurdles Big East champion. Nurudeen has separated himself from not only his fellow Irish team­mates, but also the majority of hurdlers nationwide. 
"Selirn 's breakthrough year was last year," Millar said, referring to Nurudecn's two Big East championships and his qualilication for the NCAA Championships. "This year he has really risen to the top as one of the premier hurdlers in the country." 
After a great overall team effort at last week's Meyo Invitational. the skeleton crew l111ads north looking to take home top honors in its final preparation for the Big East. 
Contact Nathan Dyer ndyer@nd.edu 
No. 21 Irish head to Canada for meet 
Loftus Center, the Irish will take 

By RYAN KIEFER 
to a difTernnt, smallnr track at Sports Writer 
Windsor this weekend. The mnet will be run on a 200­

It will be their first meet of tho meter oval at Windsor's St. Denis year featuring team scoring, but Centre eompared to Lollus' 322­the Irish are not too concerned meter track. about their placing during this Connelly hopes to usn this meet weekend's meet at the Windsor to gain experience from running Team Challenge in Windsor. on the shorter track. Ontario. "The smaller track is most 
"We're not trying to place this important for our sprintnrs. We weekend. In fact, we aren't going need to get them used· to running 
to till many of the  on  thn  tighter  
events,"  coach  turns. That's why  
Tim Connelly said. Indeed, the Irish  "We have a lot of  we'll bn snnding our nntirn sprint  
will not be taking  runners wilhin a  team  this  week­ 
a full squad to Canada this week­end, choosing to  second ... of qualifying."  nnd," he said. Thn Irish, mnknd No. 21 in thn coun­ 
leave behind many  try  by  Traek­ 
of the long and  Tim Connelly  wire.com. will take  
mid distance run­ Irish coach  on a finld limturing  

ners whose times from earlier meets have earned them qualification into next weekend's Big East Indoor Championships. 
They will focus on training for the conference meet, while team­mates who have yet to qualify will make one final attempt this weekend. 
"We have a lot of runners who are within a seeond or even tenths of a second of qualifying," Connelly said. "We want to give our kids that opportunity." 
After spending three straight weekends in the comfort of the 
numerous 
Canadian schools 
this weekend. 
Whiln the lnvel of eompntition is expncted to vary from event to event, it is generally expneted to be less than that of last week­end's Meyo Invitational, which featured li>ur top-25 tnams. 
Notre Dame will usc the experi­ence gained from Windsor in next weekend's meet whcrn they will enter as om1 of the favorites to become Big Hast champions. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 

SAINT MARY'S STUDY ABROAD INFO SESSION TUESDAY FEBRUARY 15, 2005 7:00-8:30 pm DEBARTOLO HA1.Jl_J NOTRE DAME CAl\1PUS 
SMC, ND, & HC STUDENTS ARE WELCOME!! 

Semester Pro rams  DeBartolo Rm#  
I~OME, ITALY  213  
MAYNOOTH,  208  
IRELAND  
SEMESTER  214  
AROUND THE  
WORLD  
SEVILLE, SPAIN  209  
DIJON, FRANCE  215  

Summer Programs  DeBartolo Rm.#  
MEXICO CITY SURVEY:  207  
Study of American Business  
EUROPEAN STUDY  216  
PROGRAM  
GREECE STUDY TOUR  216  
KOREAN CULTURE  217  
STUDY  
HONDURAS SERVICE  210  
LEARNING PROGRAM  



r-~--~-~ 
1 
I 





OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPlLED FROM TH-E OBSERVER'S wtRE SERVICES Friday, February 11, 2005 


AP New York Yankees first baseman Jason Giambi, right, gestures as he talks to the media on Thursday. Giambi expressed his sorrow regarding his steroid use but failed to give details. 
Giatnbi apologiz,~s for BALCO incident 
Trackwlre Top 25 Women's Track & Field 
projected team meet points 
1 Tennessee 49 
2 LSU 46 
3 Stanford 36 
4 Florida 35 
5 Texas 31 
5 BYU 31 
7 Michigan 30 
1 South Carolina 30 
9 UCLA 23 
9 Miami 23 
11 Kansaf! State 20 
12 NOTRE DAME 18 
13 Arizona State 11 
13 North Carolina 11 
15 Villanova 16 
16 Nebraska 15 
11 Cal Poly 14 
18 Georgia Tech 13 
19 Florida State 11 
20 Georgia g 
20 Colorado State g 
20 Pittsburgh 9 
20 Baylor 9 
20 Clemson 9 
25 Washington 8 
25 Arizona 8 
25 Cal 8 
25 Northern Arizona 8 
25 Penn Stale 8 
25 Mississippi 8 
25 Southern Illinois 8 
Trackwlre Top 25 Men's Track & Field 
projected team meet points 
1 Arkansas 73 2 Michigan 40 3 Indiana 32 4 Texas 28 4 Wisconsin 28 6 Florida 27 7 lSU 26·· 8 Florida State 23 9 Arizona 20 9 Texas Tech 20 11 UCLA 18 11 Colorado State 18 13 Tennessee 17 14 BYU 16 14 Oregon 16 16 Stanford 15 16 Arizona State 
15 

. 1t Auburn 19 ()ktaboma 20 Baylor 20 usc 22 Kansas State 22 Mississippi 22 East Ca ro lina

... 
25 Nebraska 25 VIrginia Tech 
team 
,.:,=::::::r 
Michigan 11~&-2 Ohio State ''"'' 11• 
Nebraska·Omaha 11" . Northern Michigan 11-1•3 Bowting Green 10-7-3 Alaska Fairbanks 8·19-3 Miami (OhioI 8·11-3 
Michigan State 
:::::•.·.?llfili'rt.x

lake Superior 7·1 . ....·•·­Western Michigan 6·13-1 Ferris Stale 4-14-4 NOTRE DAME 3·14-5 
11·14-f'.,"""''···' . 9·17.,. 5·19-6 
around the dial 
NBA 

Denver at Cleveland, 8 p.m., ESPN Dallas at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
Jason Giambi is sorry. 
Sorry. 
Sorry. 
Sorry. 

So sorry, that he'd already apolo­gized five times in five minutes to TV reporters before somebody had the good sense to ask him exactly what he was apologizing for. 
''I'm sorry," Giambi began, "that I can't get into bigger specifics for you guys and hopefully, someday I will. Because of the legal issues that are going on, you know, it would be a lot easier. But I hope everybody under­stands this is the position I'm in. 
''I'm trying to do the best I can and say I'm sorry. That's the best I can do and," he added, probably sensing that he was close to a personal best, 
IN BRIEF 

Schilling donates bloody socks to Hall of Fame Curt Schilling donated the bloody so_ck he wore during Game 2 of the World Series to the Hall of Fame on Thursday. The sock is part of a Red Sox exhibition celebrating the team's four-game sweep of the St. Louis Cardinals. Schilling's sock joins other Red Sox memorabilia including Derek Lowe's jersey from Game 4, the bat used by Series MVP Manny Ramirez when he tied a postseason record with a 17­game hitting streak and the spikes Keith Foulke wore when he recorded the final out of the Series. The exhibit runs through the 2005 baseball season. Schilling had surgery Nov. 9 to repair a ruptured tendon sheath on his right ankle. The injury appeared to end his season in the middle of Boston's World Series run, but team doctors, in an unprecedented proce­dure, made 11 wall of stitches in · Schilling's ankle to keep the tendon 
"I apologize for that." 
Rarely has so much contrition yielded so little information -and even less responsibility. But that's the sorry state Major League Baseball finds itself in a week before pitchers and catchers report. Nobody still knows nothin'. Everybody is still sorry. You'd hear the same story eavesdropping at Tony Soprano's "Bada-Bing" club any afternoon. 
So go ahead, throw all those spring-training previews back in a drawer. The real suspense this sea­son won't be whether the Red Sox or Yankees .added enough pricey new pieces to win the World Series. It will be whether anybody inside baseball can muster the courage to answer the question that is shredding the game's credibility. And the only place people are even working on it is the 
in place.Jackson faces resistance to 
real estate acquisition 
Reggie Jackson is frustrated that his offer to buy the Oakland Athletics was not accepted even though his group was willing to pay $25 million more than Los Angeles real estate developer Lewis Wolff for the fran­chise. 
"He'd like nothing better than to fulfill his dream, which is to be an owner of a baseball team," Jackson's attorney, Ed Blum, said Thursday. "He's always felt close to this team and probably always will." 
A's co-owner Steve Schott said that the offer from Jackson's group came after he and partner Ken Hofmann already had an agreement to sell the team to Wolff, the team's vice presi­dent for venue development. 
"Reggie told me he'd buy the team for $25 million more. But I don't go chasing the last dollar," Schott said. "I have an obligation to the contract." 
"There will be no hurdles to the federal prosecutor's office in San Francisco. 
That office is just down the road from the now-infamous BALCO Lab, where a raid by investigat_()rS in September 2003 lifted the lid on the worst-kept secret in baseball. It's even closer to the grand jury room that Giambi strolled into one morning last winter and unburdened himself of most of what he knew about steroids. There were plenty of sordid details, according to testimony leaked to newspapers, but who knows? A few minutes into it, some­body asked whether Giambi, like for­mer Oakland A's teammate Mark McGwire, would claim to have been truthful when discussing his steroid use in the past. 
"I can't get into specifics," he said for the umpteenth time. 
transfer," said Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer. Pacers donate fine money to local charities 
The Indiana Pacers are donating $2.4 million to 11 local charities, money that mostly comes from fines levied against five players for their roles in the Nov. 19 brawl with Detroit Pistons fans. 
The Pacers asked the NBA to give the money to charities in Indianapolis, and Pacers CEO Walsh said the request was granted. 
"The incident in Auburn Hills was a low point for the owners, this fran­chise and the players, and we came out of it determined to make some­thing positive happen for this team and this community," Walsh said Thursday. "We think this does that." 
The NBA fined Ron Artest, Stephen Jackson, Jermaine O'Neal, Anthony Johnson and Reggie Miller for their roles in the Nov. 19 brawL The Pacers also contributed an unspeci­fied amount to charitable donation. 



~-~--­
Friday, February I I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO TENNIS 

Irish set for weekend matches 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
In any tnnnis match, snrvos aro brokcm. In tim sdwmo of' things, it's how a playnr bounens hack from !wing broknn that matters. 
J>ospitn dropping two rnatchos to powerhouses T!~xas and Duke last wnoknnd. tho Irish are tak­ing tho S!~tback in stridn. Al'tnr six straight wins to open tho sea­son, two lossns can show what a loam is madn oF-and il' it's sot li•r t.lw long run. 
"It's good," eoac:h Bobby Bayliss said ol' tnam moraln. "TI;n tmuns wo lost to -Tnxas will lw possibly a top-15 tnarn this year ... when it all shakos down. and Duko is a Top 10 loam." 
Tho Irish swnpt thnir narly s!·lwduh~ with wins owr Toledo, Illinois Stat!\ Indiana, Wismnsin, North Carolina and Florida Statn. At tho timo, UNC was rankod No. IH, and Bayliss nxpnets thn Sominolns to finish in tho Top 20. This wonk!md, tho Irish will take on Marquetto and the University of Indianapolis. 
The tnam worked on eondi­tioning and compntitivn soL-; this wonk in order to bounce back from tlw lossns. 
"Wo'vo rnally intcmsilied prae­tieo lmeauso we have just this onn day ]of matc:hesl on Sunday and then we don't play again until next Friday," Bayliss said. 
I\ dcwp lineup has allowed Bayliss sonw lloxibility in both singlos and doublns this soason. The No. I spot has bnen in somn r.ont!~ntion, as both sophomore Stophnn B<L<;s and sonior captain Brcmt I>'Amko have soon time in the top position. 
"Tiw biggnst thing is at the end 


JMs on campus with NO surchargel 
I

We ha ·e AlMs near you-ri 
ht where you needt em, right when 
d them. 
TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer 
The Irish and Pat Buchanan will compete this weekend against Marquette and the University of Indianapolis. 
of tho fall, Stephen Bass had earnnd tho right to play No. 1," Bayliss said, eiting tho sopho­more standout's national ranking and outstanding fall record. "I But! it's a tough load for some­body to go up and lace tho guys he's had to l'aee up there.... I have a lot of' confidence in Stophnn and I believe he can become a prime-time college tennis player." 
D'Amieo also played well in the top position, Bayliss said. 
"lie's hold up and hopefully Stephen will get on track this week," he said. 
No. 112 Barry King rngisternd the lone Irish point against Duke in the third spot, defeating No. 106 Stephen Amritaj. Sheeva Parbhu rounds out the top four for the men, as Irackli Akhvlediani, Hyan Keckley, Patrick Buchanan and Erie Langenkamp have rotated through No. 5 and No. 6. 
0 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
or the 

Akhvl«~diani is back frum an ankle sprain, and Bayliss expnets him to play in this weekend's lineup. 
Thn doubles have snen success this season, with D'/l.mko and Kneklny combining at No. 1 and Bass and King at No. 3. Parbhu and Langenkamp have seen the most success at No. 2, posting a 9-2 season reeord (6-2 in dual matchns). . 
"Doubles. has begun to solidi­fy," Bayliss said. "I think we can continue to improve there, I improve it to be a strength as the year goes on." 
Fans can expect two exciting matehups this weekend at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, as play against Marquette is slated for 1 
p.m. Sunday and Indianapolis will take the eourts against the Irish at 5:30 p.m. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Louderback calm in facing Harvard 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
There's just somnthing about 
Boston. 
Boston tnams have been rak­ing up thn hardware this sna­son, from Boston Collegn's come-from-behind 24-23 win ovnr Notre Dame during football season to the Hod Sox's World Series title. 
But as of' late, Notre Damn has been working to reversn that trend, bnginning with the has­kntball tc~am's upset of' No. 4 Boston Collngn Tunsday night. 
Now, the No. 21 womnn's tnn­nis team is looking to pull oil' a Boston upset ol' its own, taking on No. 17 Harvard on Friday at 
12:30 p.m.· and Boston College on Sunday at 10 a.m. 
Judging by the team's imprns­sive 5-2 victory over Wake Forest. walking away with an upset this weekend seems all tho more doable. 
Coach Jay Louderback said although llarvard looks to pro­vide plenty of challenges this weekend, he has faith in the tnam's eharaetnr. 
"My hope is that we compete like we have been," Louderback said. "II' wn do, we'll be in the match all the way." 
This competitive spirit is responsible for the team's sue­eess against Wake Forest, Louderback said. The Irish jumped to an early lead, swenp­ing doubles in the Jan. 30 match. At No. 3, senior captain Sarah Jane Connelly and junior Kiki Stastny jumpstarted the Irish ell'ort, walking oil' the court with. an 8-1 win over Blakeley OITutt and Alisha Talbot. 
Freshman Brook Buck and junior Lauren Connelly worn next oil' the courts, dinching the doubles point with a vietory over Katie Martzolf and Danielle Schwartz H-1 at No. 2. 
Adding to the team's momen­tum, sophomore twins Catrina and Christian Thompson defeat­ed No. :n Karin Contzee and Ashlee Davis 8-3 at No. 1. Tho nationally ranked No. 2 Thompsons remain unbeaten this spring and are 12-2 this 
I43 Dixie Way South W33 Norlh) 1 mi. from campus Open Sunday, Feb I3th (574)273-22 I2 
•Also 
open on Sunday, Feb 13th & Valentine's Day 

•Free 
Rose Petals with every Saturday delivery 

•Our 
flowers arc ular! 


ynar. 
In singles, No. H5 Buck capi­talized on the team's monHm­t.um following, upsnlting No. 16 Contzon 6-1, (,-1 at. No.2 sin­gins. 
Stastny clinehnd tho win for Uw Irish at No. 5, with a victory ovnr .lonna Lonb 6-3, (1-1. At No. :~ singles, Christian Thompson followod up Stastny's win, daiming a victory ovnr Martzolf 6-2, ()-2. 
llarvard (3-1 I has bnon just as much of a winning team as tlw Irish this snason. Last Saturday, the Crimson upset No. 16 Tnxas A&M in a 4-3 dneision at tlw USTNITA National Tnam Indoor Championships. TIH~ team swnpt the three doubles matdws and elainwd wins at Nos. I, 5, h sin­gles. Loudnrbac~k said the Crimson look to be most chal­lnnging at the top of the lineup. 
"We've bonn nxeitnd to play Harvard bncausn wn know thny'rc a vnry athletic tnam," Loudnrbaek said. "It's good for us to bn put in a tough situation on thn road against a good tnam." 
AI though last year tho Irish dnfeated Boston College b-1, Louderback says ho nxpeets tough competition from tho Eagles this year. 
"It will be a tough match ­especially playing on the road," Louderoaek said. "They'ro a dangerous tnam at home." 
Boston College (1-2) recently recorded its first victory of the spring Sunday, defeating Columbia 4-3. Although they lost the doubles point, the Eagles bounced back and gar­nered wins at Nos. 1, 3, 4, and 6 singles. Boston College, liko Harvard, looks to present the greatest challenges for Notre Dame at the top of the lineup. 
But Louderback is eonlidont in the team's abilitins and potcm­tial. 
"Our kids havn vnry good doublos instinets and do a great job eompnting in singles when the matehos got tough," Louderback said. "Wn can only got bnltnr with more matches." 
Contact Ann Loughery at 
alougher@nd.cdu 
IJROADII:-tr O.V JCL is a glittcnng stage spcctucular brought to dauling life lly Ol~mpic si-ntcrs. led hy Gold Medal "inner lloroth~ Hamill Teamed with llavi11 <';aines. the star of over 
2.000 pcrformam:cs of TJ/l:' PIIANTOM OF 71/E OPERA. this is truly a magical theatrical event on ice for both Broadway music lovers und fumilics alike. 
One week only! 
Feb. 15·20, 2005 
Call: 574.235.9190 or 800.537.6415 
'INWW.Broadway'Theatrel.e.ague.com 
Friday, February 11, 2005 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
talented this spring. Notre Dame 
Team looks to be a 

is led by third team All­Big East force after American center fielder Megan Ciolli, who has a career averagestrong 2004 season of .367 and has been named to the USA Softball Player of the By HEATHER Year watch list in her fourth 
VAN HOEGARDEN 

year as a starter. Sports Writer Ciolli will lead an Irish team 
that is hungry to build upon last 
year's disappointing finish in the 
With snow still on the ground NCAA Tournament. The Irish in South Bend, the won just one Irish go south this game at the weekend to kick off NCAA Regionals, the. 2005 season in "{This team is] a going home the warm weather early.
more seasoned and 
of Florida. "This team has
determined group 
Notre Dame seen it all," Irish begins the year this thitr season. ,, coach Deanna morning when the Gumpf told GRU Classic begins und.com. "They
Deanna Gumpf 
in Gainsville, Fla. have experi­
Irish coach
The Irish have two enced success games scheduled and failure -the for today -a 10 good and the 
a.m. matchup with No. 19 bad. There is a sense around Florida (7-0) and a 4 p.m. game this team that they are prepared against No. 21 South Florida. for anything and are focused on 
This year's Notre Dame squad taking the next step." is coming off a successful season This season the Irish will see in which it finished 49-19, some position changes with including an 18-2 Big East newcomer Katie Laing playing record and regular season title. shortst~p. Sara Schoonaert will The Irish graduated just one move to second base as a result, player from last season, first and Stephanie Brown will play 
team All-Big East outfielder in the outfield. Brown had an Nicole deFau. This year's team outstanding freshman year for is the preseason Big East con­the Irish, hitting .301 with seven ference regular-season champi­home runs and 30 RBI. on, receiving all nine possible "Sara was a great shortstop 
first-place votes from the con­but she has the potential to be ference head coaches. an All-American at second The Irish arc experienced and base," Gumpf said. 
FENCING
ND SOFTBALL 

Soberiaj leads ND
Irish begin spring in Florida 
Meanwhile, the Irish also have some outstanding pitching 
into Duke Duals 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
With a win this weekend at home against Alma, the Belles can climb to fifth in the MIAA and hold out hope for the fourth seed in the upcoming league tournament. 
With a loss, Saint Mary's will fall to next-to-last in the con­ference and five games under. .500 on the season, which would mark the team's worst record this year. 
Further illustrating the importance of Saturday's game, the MIAA has added a play-in game this year to deal with the addition of a ninth team, Tri-State, to the league. 
If the Belles finish the season next-to-last in the conference, the team will have to play an extra game before getting the opportunity to face the No. 1 seed -either Albion, Hope or Calvin -in the tournament. Since joining the MlAA, the Belles have gone a combined 2-42 against those three teams, with both wins coming against Albion. 
But such a scenario can be avoided if Saint Mary's wins at least two of its final three games. 
That starts with Alma at 3 
p.m. Saturday. 
This will be the teams' sec­ond meeting of the year, fol­lowing a thrilling overtime game on Saturday, Jan. 15, which Alma pulled out, 77-71. Bridget Boyce hit a jumper for the Belles as time expired in regulation to force the extra session, but the Scots scored 15 points in overtime for the win. 

Now would be the perfect time for Saint Mary's to get a little payback. 
"We definitely want to get revenge ... and having the game on our home court is definitely [something we want]," freshman guard Alison Kessler said. 
In the teams' first meeting, Kessler started the game, replacing the injured Katie Boyce. Now that Boyce is back, however, Kessler has returned to her role off the bench. 
She scored nine points against Adrian on Wednesday, and says she has taken the transition well. 
"''m just happy that Katie's back," Kessler said. 
The Belles as a team, though, have not fared well at all since getting back to .500 with a Jan. 24 win over Tri­State. Saint Mary's has lost four in a row to fall to 9-13 
returning this year. Heather Booth, first team All-Big East, leads the way as last year she , had a 25-9 record with a 1.45 ERA Steffany Stenglein will fill the No. 2 spot, but both are very capable pitchers. They are joined by Carrie Wisen and 
Kenya Fuemmeller. 
"They are a more seasoned 
and determined group this sea­
son," Gumpf said. "They have 
seen the highest of the highs 
and fought through some tough 
situations as well. I think all 
four of them are mentally and 
physically stronger this year." 
Notre Dame should also bene­
fit from the return of junior left­
fielder Kellie Middleton, who 
missed 61 games last season 
with an injury. 
"It's great to have Kellie back 
in the outfield," Gumpf said. 
"You automatically think of her 
pride, determination and the 
power she has from within to come back from her injury. She has made a remarkable come­back and looks to be back to her previous level of play." 
The Irish continue the week­end tournament Saturday, when they finish pool play with Coastal Carolina. They then play the first round of the tourna­ment, which continues through Sunday. The championship game is Sunday at 12:30 p.m. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden 
at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

the Midwest conference. Therefore, postseason implica­
SMC BASKETBALL 

tions will not be as crucial as they have been in the past. The team will be led by a host of talented fencers, most
Belles push for MIAA's 
notably senior men's epeeist 
eclipse that mark, as North 
Carolina, Air Force, Johns 
Hopkins and Stanford are all 
joining the Irish and the Blue 
Devils in competition. 
Unlike last weekend, when 
many backups saw a majority 
of the action at the Ohio State 
Duals, the Irish will use most 
of their top fencers at Duke, 
both in an effort to tune them 
up in the final event of the sea­
son as well as compete against 
quality opponents. Stanford 
and Air Force are No. 9 and 
No. 10, respectively, according 
to the Jan. 20 national men's 
poll. Further, both Duke and 
North Carolina received top 10 
votes in the men's and 
women's polls. 
However, the Irish will be missing two key members for the duration of the weekend. Senior women's epee captain Kerry Walton and sophomore epee standout Amy Orlando will not be at the event, as they will be competing in international tournaments that . could assist them in qualifying 
for the World Championships. 
Nevertheless, the Irish hope 
to do just fine without them 
this weekend. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

overall, 4-9 MIAA. Alma (9­10, 4-9) comes into the game in a four-way tie with the Belles, Kalamazoo and Adrian for fifth in the league, and the stakes are just as high for the Scots as they are for the Belles. 
Alma will look to contain Saint Mary's powerhouse Emily Creachbaum, who is coming off a tough contest against Adrian on Wednesday. Averaging over 13 points per 
game on the year, Creachbaum 
2004-05 SEASON

shot just three-for-18 against Adrian. 
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
A key for the Belles will be to shut down Alma's Katey Peacock, who scored 27 in Alma's last contest, a 67-58 loss to Hope. The forward scored 25 points in 42 minutes against the Belles in their prior meeting. 
Contact Ken Fowler at 
kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

INCOME TAX PREPARATION 
Daniel F. Osberger, CPA & MBA Call to Meet at Your Campus Office or Home W: 246-1165 C: 514-7453 OASIS FINANCIAL SERVICES Osberger Accounting Solutions & Investment Services 
203 S. Ironwood Drive South Bend, IN 46556 E-mail: Dan. Os berger@Comcast.N et 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
As their season draws closer to the end, the Irish are look­ing to finish strong in th(l Duke Duals this weekend in Durham, N.C. 
The Irish, who are No. 2 in the women's polls and No. 4 in the men's, will compete in an event that will run all day today and Saturday. This event, which is the last match of the regular season for the team, features no teams from 
and three-time All-American Michal Soberiaj, who has com­piled a 55·2 record this sea­son. As of now, his . 965 win percentage for the season should shatter the standing men's epee record of .938. Further, he ranks eighth in all­time wins by a men's fencer and is just ·two wins shy of matching the men's epee record for wins in a single sea­son. 
He has the opportunity to 
Aetors Fro111 Tl1e Lo11dor1 St1ge OTHELLO 
by William Shakespeare 
Friday, February 11 and Saturday, February 12 Both performances at 7:30p.m. 
Leighton Concert Hall 
Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General Public $18.00 • Seniors/NO Faculty/Staff $16 • All Students $12 Tickets available at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 631·2800. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
fiEJUNIVERS!TYOF ~DEBARTOLOwNOTRE DAME ~PERFORMINGARTSCENTER 
hiJay, February II, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
or and know they need to get on as coaches and all tho time you going through the University of Thursday, linn· days aftnr r.alling that guy a little bit or the one put in." Notrn Dame, and I never rnally the plays for tho Nnw England
Banquet 
that just nnnds a pat on the butt. !\ first-round pick of the felt that I got to that potential. Patriots who won their third continued from page 24 That's very spm~ial." Ilouston A<>tros in the 1998 draft, When hn said that, I adually felt championship in four years. 
One porsonal example from his Lidge talked about the adversity that I had aehievnd that poton­Whilo talking about his love for rnnt Notn~ Damn football coach coaches was Joe Torre walking he has experienced throughout tial." baseball as a New York Yankees Charlin Wnis also spokn at the up to Hoger Clemons before his collegiate and professional While in the majors, Lidge had fan, Wnis srmck in some talk nvnnt. Gamf1 :~ of tho 2001 World caroers. At Notre Dame, Lidge limr surgeries to overcome as he about his upc~oming challnngos in 
Onn main t.lwnw -in bntweon Series. /\s Clemens was mentally went from the bottom of the advanced through tho minor loading tho football program. talking about Jon Torrn and Don preparing himself for the gamo, depth chart after the fall season leaguos. "It's bonn a little bit of a whirl­Zimmnr, what hat hn would wear Torre walked ovnr and told of his freshman year to Big East Lidge attributes being able to wind for mysolf," Weis said. in tlw llall nf Famn and stnroids (]omens, "lley big man, I need Pitcher of thn Year as a junior. recovf1r both physieally and men­"llopnfully in the not too distant -pnwahmt in Chmwns' speech you tonight. I rwed you in a big ;\t one point during that junior tally from those injuries to his future, you'll got to know mo a was his rnspnet for coaches. way." year, a few words from Irish the people that helped him at little bit morn and understand 
"What ean I say about tlHl Clemons responded, "I hear coach Paul Mainieri told l.idge all Notre Dame. my passion to win, not at all coadws up hnrP, Charlie, tho dad you loud and dear Skip." that hard work he put in through "It's just been an unbelievable eosL'i, but my passion to win. r.oadws, tho high school coaches, It's knowing when and how to his three years wearing an Irish ride for me for the success I " ... I'm horn for good now and I can only toll you that I rmnnm­push tho buttons that Clemens uniform had paid orr. had," Lidge said. "I think about hopefully in tho not too distant bnr the things that coadws gave apprndates. "It was pretty simple, he said, my life and don't think any of it futuro, you'll be very proud I'm 
mn mtcouragcHntmt that I loved "Those Iittlo things that coach­'Brad, you've arrived,"' Lidge could have been possible from to play," Clmnens said. "It means es know and when the right time said. "It really meant a lot to me. the guidance and lead11rship for a lot for us as players for the to send a message," he said. "It I had a lot of people talk to me the people at Notre Damn." roac~hns who can piek out a play-goes a long way. I thank you guys about the potential I had while Weis flew to South Bend on 
Lidge said. ";\s a freshman I ever stay healthy for an extend­'Brad, we just traded Oetavio, was kind of mentally soft, and ed period of time. But whenev­you're closing.' So not a whole

Lidge 
he talk me a lot about mental er Lidge had doubts, he lot of warning there, but it 
continued from page 24 toughness, about grinding it out remembered what he learned actually gave me so much on the basnball field and that during his time at Notre Dame. · adrenaline I couldn't sit down oven when you don't have your "I always thought that I for the next week." . 
spnak at thn fourth-annual best stun· to believe in yourself." would get stronger from adver­Lidge then went out and Notrn Damn baseball Opnning The advice worked. Lidge sary and maybe I'm starting at made the Astros front office Night Dinnnr. lin was joinnd by was the 17th overall pick in the a point where I can get bettp,r look like geniuses. snvPn-tirnn Cy Young 1\ward­199H amatnur draft and made and come back strongnr from I Ie finished the regular sea­winnnr and tnammato, Hognr his major league debut on /\pril these injuries," Lidgo said. "I son with a 6-5 record, eonvm-t­( :Jnnwns and Notre Damn head 26, 2002. The Sacramento, feel like I did." ed 29 saves and had a minis­football coach, Charlie Wnis. Calif. native thrnw in just eight Lidge's success in 2003 cule 1.90 EHA. His dominance 
"It's a rnaI honor for rnn to games, yielding six earned dwarfed in comparison to his continued al'tnr Houston earnod conw hack lwrn and I just runs. Lidgo bounced back the 2004 season. Lidge, whose slid­a playofl' berth. Lidge pitdwd in couldn't pass this up," Lidgn next season and posted solid er is one or the nastif1st in base­seven postseason games and said. "Coach ]Paul] Maininri numbers as a set-up man, log­ball, was the primary set-up allowed just one run, earning a and mysnlf havo a gn~at rola­ging H5 innings in 7H games reliover for closer Oetavio Dot11l victory and saving throe during tionship and ho knows lw ean and tallying a (J-3 record with a when the season began. But his 12 1/3 innings of work. always ask nw for stufl' likn this 3.60 Elt/\. lin struck out 97 Dotol struggled and the /\stros Lidge will begin anothor sPa­ami I'll gladly aeec~pt." while walking just 42. underachieved for much of the son in the majors in a few days 
l.idgP said hn lnarnnd a groat But it wasn't always easy for lirst half of the season. On June when pitchers and eatchers dna) from Notre~ Dame's head Lidgn. During his speech 24, Houston traded the incon­report to spring training. hasPiwll coach of the past I 0 Thursday, the formor Irish sistent Dote) and promoted Despite all his success. Lidge sc~aso ns, and that Main in r i playl'l' recallod having four sur­Lidge to the dosnr's role. said he has no plans of getting hPipnd him dnwlop mnntally. gnries in four years and some­"When I first hoard about it, a big ego. 
''J'vn lnamnd a ton from him," times wondnring if he would it was actually in the fifth "It's an honor for me to play inning of the game wo wore in," in the major leagues," Lidgo Lidge said. "Oetavio normally said. "I can tell you, I don't take comes down to the bullpcm dur­anything for granted anymore.'' ing the fourth inning, and he
Are you creative? 
hadn't come down yet. They Contact Joe Hettler at called me down and said jhetder@nd.edu 
Do you have a short story, poem, drawing or photo? Submit your work to the Spring issue of 

~reat Food! ~reat Fun!
The Juggler 
NO's student literary, art and design magazine. 
Please bring artwork to Mary Foster in 206 Riley. Supply slides for pieces larger than 11x17 or 3..0 work. 
#1 Sports Jar in South Jend 
Written work can be e-mailed via attachment to 
2046 South Jend Ave -Across frot~t 
juggler@nd.edu or dropped off in the box outside 
Martins Plaza
the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall. No entries of more than 2,500 words, please. 
272-1766 Must be 21 with avalid I.P.
All submissions should include title, author/artist, and e-mail. 
-tlJ g. SPECIALS (STA~TIN~ AT $1,0OJ ·Live ffl.IVIA Night -Jring your teatMs -Prizes Look for the Winter Juggler UJ -Penny Night-1~ Specials starting at later this month! 9:00PM 




Lid lnNI 
Irish Athletics Weekend! 


your eoaeh." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

·~·Hockey 
continued from page 24 
play as wc~ll in tho third periodI." 
Poulin said. "If you take Saturday 
night's game, wo playc1d rnally 
well and with six rninutos )pft wn 
have a gr11at ehanen at one end 
and it doesn't go in, so thny como 
right down and seom. 
"I think it is a littln mental now 
-we've trind difl'ernnt things and 
trif1d to address it in difTnrnnt 
ways, but tlw bottom line is wn'w 
got to win a gamo to got sornn of 
our eonfidenen back." 
Notrn Damn took sonw muc.h­
nendod stops toward gntting back 
into tlw win column Saturday, 
seoring thrnn goals in a game lilr 
the first time sinc.11 Dnc.. I 0. Morn 
importantly, tho team got goals 
from forwards Cory Md .nan and 
Mikn Walsh, who have struggled 
to find tho nnt all snwmn. 
MeLnan seornd his fourth goal 
of' the season, and Walsh scornd 
his S!lcond -by i~omparisou. 
MeLnan had I 0 goals in tlw 2003­
04 season and Walsh had 12 tal­
lies. 1\lso, thn h~am has nmnagnd 
to produce shoL'i on goal of latn, 
something that has bonn diflkull. 
for the team all season. Notre 
Dame has outshot its opponent 
just 10 or :~o times on the year, 
but in their most recent strntdt of 
games the Irish have ouL<>hot thnir 
opponent in thrne of limr matc~h­
es. ' "Not only havn wn ouL<>hot our 
opponents, but we've also 
outchanced them," Poulin said. 
"We've gotten to the front of tho 
net a lot bnttnr. It was dear from 
watching video that we wnren't 
doing a good job of getting to tho 
net and into that high-rent dis­
trict. 
"We made a eonseious dm~ision 
to go to the net more, and we 
need to got more goals from in 
dose like that." 
Notre Dame faces Ferris State 
tonight at the Joyce Centnr at 7:35 
p.m. and Saturday at 7:05p.m. 
·" 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Hockey VS Ferris State@ 7:35PM U93's ROCK THERlNK! 1ooo Fans will receive a milk jug 


Women's Lacrosse VS.
noisemaker cour­
Canadian National Team 
tesy of Meijer 

@8:3oPM Lqftus Sports 
and Dean Foods! 
Lenter 
Hockey vs. Ferris St. @ 
7:osPM Joyce Center Fieldhouse Chevy Trading Card Night *Senior Class Post-game 

.... autograph session with the Men's Lacrosse 
VS MLL Irish Senior Players Players @ 1:30PM *Krispy Kreme doughnuts 
....~ !
LoftusSport' Center for all sweethearts, in honor ofValentine's Day 
Visit notrcdamcpromotions.com for more promotional information. 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, February 11, 2005
i 
l~
1-­
1 
..... 
.. 
.. 


McGraw 
continued from page 24 
with effort and intensity," McGraw said. "I think we learned anybody can beat you on any given night. You've got to be ready to bring your 'A' game." 
The Hoyas (9-12, 4-6) aren't the strongest team in the Big East, with 30-point losses to the likes of' Boston College and Rutgers, but Providence was worse, and the Irish struggled with them Wednesday night. 
"You cannot look past teams just bemuse of their record," McGraw said. "If we learned that lesson [Wednesday night] it will serve us very well for the rest" of the year." 
Georgetown is led by senior Varda Tamoulianis, who averu· ages 11.8 points and 8~4' rebounds per game. Her 6­foot-4 frame is the anchor of the Hoyas zone defense. She averages over two blocks per game." 
We need to try to contain [Tamoulianisl," McGraw said. "She's been playing well." 
Joining the senior leadership have been two newcomers. Freshman Kieraah Marlow is averaging 13.2 points and a conference-leading 9 rebounds per game in her first season as a Hoya. 
The 5-foot-10 forward is joined by fellow rookie Kristin Heidloff, who is averaging 6.3 points per game. Heidloff attended Fenwick High School in a suburb of Chicago, the same high school as Purdue's Erin Lawless, who the Irish faced earlier this season. 
The last time these two 


teams faced off, the Irish were victorious 66-52 at the Joyce Center, Feb. 4, 2004. This game followed the previous matchup at Georgetown, where the Hoyas knocked off the Irish for the first time in 16 years. Since then, however, the Hoyas have had Rebekkah Brunson, who was selected 1Oth in last year's WNBA draft. The Hoyas also have a new coach, Terri Williams-Flournoy. 
McGraw remembers the past games, and is concerned about the Hoyas, who have won three straight. 
"They have some pretty good 3-point shooters," she said. "It's going to be hard for us to play a lot of zone. They beat us out there last year, but we tried everything-man, zone, and nothing really worked well." 
Notre Dame will be led by All-American Jacquline Batteast (17.9 points, 6.5 rebounds per game) and point guard Megan Duffy (11.3 points per game, 134 total assists). 
Courtney LaVere will see her second straight start after returning from December knee surgery. 
"I thought she played really well at [Pittsburgh]." McGraw said. 
And despite Georgetown's sub-.500 record, Notre Dame now knows not to take anyone lightly. 
"They're on a roll," McGraw said. "They have a lot of ener­gy right now because they've won three in a row. It's a big game for us." 
Tipoff is 2 p.m. Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Pitt 
continued from page 24 
they knew it was only one win 
with seven more games -each 
one so critical to making the 
NCAA tournament -left on the 
schedule. 
"It's a very veteran ball club," · Irish senior Jordan Cornette said. 
"To be able not to get down on 
ourselves after the Syracuse loss, 
now the challenge is to not get to 
happy with yourself because you 
have another big challenge with 
Pittsburgh on Saturday." 
Despite not being overly excit­
ed about the win over the Eagles, 
the Irish know what it does for 
that cliched NCAA tournament 
resume. 

Coming into the game, the 
Irish were in the upper 50s of the 
RPI and are now in the 30s. 
Brey joked after the game he 
even knew what the win would 
do for the Irish. 
"Even though I'm not good at 
math, I can do the RPI stuff. It's 
great for our resume," Brey said. 
"We got Pittsburgh coming, but 
our kids have done a great job 
win, lose, kind of staying pretty 
steady and understanding we 
have to prepare for the next one. 
"Being 6-4 in the league and 
that being one of the six is good. 
But we have another opportunity 
coming against Pittsburgh." 
The Eagles jumped on the Irish 
Tuesday night, racing out to a 
15-6 lead and shredding Notre 
Dame's man-to-man defense. 
Brey switched his team to the 2­
3 zone it would use for the 
majority of the game. 
What he didn't do was call a 
timeout to settle his troops down . 
He didn't do it because he has 
confidence in his leadership in big-time games at home. 

"I didn't think we were in a mood where, 'oh God, we lose to Syracuse and now we're done nine to the No. 4 team in the country.' They don't get like that. I didn't call a timeout," Brey said. "I think it's [Chris] Thomas and our older guys. We're pretty old. I don't want to panic at home with them either. We've been poised, and I want them to be poised. 
"I think they believed they had a great chance of winning.'' 
Despite being 2-2 during the past four games, Brey is pleased with the way is team is improv­ing. 
That's what he feels is most important -and the improve­ment will lead to the wins ..which will lead the Irish to where they want to be come the middle of March. 
"I think I'm most excited in that we're getting better. I know we haven't won our last four games, but I think we're getting better," Brey said. "I told them that after Syracuse, we didn't fin­ish it, but I think we're getting better at the right time." 
Tip-off is set for 12 p.m. at the Petersen Events Center, where the Irish have lost both of their previous two contests against the Panthers since the building opened for the 2002-03 season. The game .will be televised on ESPN. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


"['be lloly (~ross l\lission l..ecture at Notre l)aine 
&. 

' n ··s,1()N···
cr'u l.~m .f •. -. ; . i 
GO[) 










RE-IMA@;INING 

Sunday, F~ebruary l, 3, 7:15 p.m. fv1oreau SenJ,inal'"V l\udiloriunl 
" 

lJiscu~sion and Reception to Pollo,v 

Sp(:•n&r<rt!d try· l.h<il lhJiy Cn)PF l\118"i•;'n t"'\:nh.•r c,~-Bpii!hhN;;:•J by tl-h' 1.\;;p;lrhuNtl (~f 'l'h,;·.:~logy, ?vll.tHiiH1 Sl1.minaty1 d1<• fn~lilule fnt (hut<'It L!.f<· th(' C'ilnt~r f.yr. b9ci~J CorK•trn~. anti the H%.'len fZt_,jtr,~g lnlltihtlc for lnldl~ilLiotHtl i3t.udive~ 

Friday, February II, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
r--------------"'1E r--------------.. 
I'M ADDICTED  ~  WHEN THERE ARE  
TO E-MAIL.  MY  @  NO MESSAGES I  
ENDORPHINS SPIKE WHEN I  ~ ~  LONELINESS AND DESPAIR OVERCOME  
GET A MESSAGE.  ~  ME.  
PEANUTS  


I COULD HAVE BEEN ASLED DOG, OR MAYBE A PAMPERED PET OF SOME RICH LAD'!' LIVING IN A TOWN HOVSE, OR MAYBE 
A SHEEP D06 IN AUSTRALIA .. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~ 

r--------------.. 
HAVE
~ 
YOU
~ 

WE DON'T .; TRIED 
TALK ABOUT e SENDING 
THAT.E-MAIL
~ 

TO YOUR­
.. ~ 
.., 

SELF? ~ 
..: 
g 
Q 
"' 
~ 
"' 
" 
."7t 

~~~.----.------~~ 

CHARLES SCHULZ rl 
~ 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 39 Popular 1940's 62 Swell place? 
1 Got back at radio quiz show 63 Spinner of tales someone, 40 "While it ... " 67 "Guys and eventually 41 Thelma's player Dolls" song 
16 Leave a dispute in "Thelma & 68 66, e.g. unsettled Louise" 17 "And I'll skip the 42 Regard DOWN boring part" 
43 Set, in Somme 1 Mount _, peak 18 Book before 44 Late name in 90 miles SSE of Neh. Mideast politics Fairbanks 19 Notable 45 Dolly of "Hello, 2 Goggling resignee: Abbr. Dolly!" 3 Eminem's 20 Where operators discoverer
46 F.B.I. chief after 

stand by?: Abbr. 4 A Turner 
Sessions 21 Amer. money 48 See 5-Down 5 With 48-Across, 22 Handles deepest longing
50 Manufacturer's 24 Simple problem need 
6 One may go after the26 Inclined 52 One of an old meaningfilm duo30 Recommenda­7 Advance
tions 56 They've been a Also say34 Bach's "joy of tagged 9Teamman's desiring" 59 A multiple of XIX 10 Crowned heads37 Bornean tree­61 Monthly or of olddweller quarterly, briefly 
11 Stores 12 Bygone dignitaryANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Asian tongue 33 640 acres: Abbr. 49 Unkempt 57 Bass line 14 Some students' provider
34 Sec 51 Popular talk goals: Abbr. 

35 Kaffiyeh-clad show 58 It's not clean 15 Ranch unit 
commander 53 Not even 60 Land in el mar 

r.:-t~=+=+:C:-1 23 Prepared 
36 _-Coburg, old 54 Olympus

porcini, e.g. 61 Chi follower
German duchy competitor

25 Piano primer 64 Chi follower
38 Conqueror of 55 Squat's oppositereference point 
Naples, 1860 65 1960's chess
56 Its flag says

-=+'=+:+.:±,;,;,.-::-+-:+":+::+'::+-:'-i 27 Companion of champ
Artemis 47 Cab Calloway's "God is great" "kingdom" 22 times 66 Geom. solid
"'!"9'~::+-:::+=+=-~ 28 Bel 29 Home of the For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a
!!~~~··· Texas Motorplex credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
~~:+:::+.::-! 31 Language from which Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday "Saskatchewan" crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
is derived Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
32 Mussorgsky's past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). "The Great Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Gate of solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Note: The word RED was needed to complete LEITER OAYS, LOBSTER, SKELTON, HOT CHILl PEPPERS, HERRING, BLOOOEO, EYE SPECIAL, ANT, HEAO, ALERTS, SHIRT, BREAST, CENT and INK. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779
THE OBSERVER 
..

Notre Dame, IN 46556 Published Monday through Friday, The 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic yearObserver is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint D Enclosed is $55 for one semester
Mary's Community. Name __________________________________________ _ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address ______________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the City _______________ State _____ Zip______ 
two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

GUMMY TAFFY OCELOT GROTTO Answer: When he ordered one for the road, he­GOT ACAR 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEHRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Laura Dcrn. 38; Cliff Burton, 43; George Stcphanopoulos. 44; Roberta Flack. 66 
Happy Birthday: Change is heading your way. but it doesn't have to be negative. In many ways it will be the change you have been waiting for hut couldn't muster up enough courage to make happen in the past. This is a year of rcvelalion, re­evaluation and reuniting with the good from your past so that you can incorporate it into a bright future. Your numbers arc 6, 15. 21, 23. 35. 39 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Not everyone will be up front with you about money, investments or legal matters. You will have to make your own assumptions today. Relying on someone else will be futile and result in frustration and costly mistakes. * * * TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You need a change of scenery. Join a group that will get your mind racing. You will be at your best when you arc contributing to something worthwhile. Someone new will impress you on many different levels. **** GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Stick to your game plan and don't let emotional matters slow you down. If you arc to the point and know what you want. you will get your way. Changes may alarm you. hut you can make them work to your advantage. ** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): You can make some very subtle changes today that will result in clearing up financial or legal matters hanging over your head. Confront a situation at home that has been hothering you. ***** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You may have to make a decision that will all'cct your living arrangements or financial situation. Do what's necessary to protect what you have. Honesty coupled with a little Leo finesse will win support. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Work is where it's at. If you have a job, strive to advance: if you don't, set up interviews or apply for positions. A husincss or personal partnership that can alter your future is apparent. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will have some terrific creative ideas that can lead to a moneymaking deal. Changes regarding your work will be to your benefit. Don't look back; do your own thing and you will succeed. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may he tempted to believe someone who is unpredictahlc. Focus more on love than linancial deals or work. This is a day for action. not words. You will do better if you don't discu.~s scriou.~ matters. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You will find yourself in a diflicult situation if you have not been honest about something. You may have to make a promise· in order to keep the peace. Make sure you don't go hack on your word. ** 
,.

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lan. 19): You can move mountains today if you put your mind to it. Your ideas are solid, and your ability to take one of your dreams and turn it into a reality will be most rewarding. Changes will be beneficial. **** AQUARilJS (.Jan. 20-Feh. 18): You have much going on right now, hut whlll is most important is that you follow your heart and your dreams. Follow the path that you knnw will bring you the greatest satisfaction. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be emotionally unpredictahlc. Don't let your own uncertainty lead to an irrcversihle mistake. Finish nne thing before you start another. You have to be honest uhout what you want in order to get ahead. 
*** 
Birthday Baby: Your dreamlike quality will always buy you the time you need .. to do things your way. You are inventive and outgoing, tmd you know how to take advantage of any opportunity that comes your way. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
JUMBLE 
JJWI00®11ill 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CUHDY 

rJ 
1 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SUGES j 
I rI 

www.jumble.com 
DABINT ± 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Oh, he's so cute. Can we take him home? Please! Please! 

WHAT JUNIOR DID TO DAD AT THE: PE:T SHoP. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
..... 
(Answers tomorrow) 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, February 11, 2005 
page 24 
N 0 BASKETBALL 

Staying strong 
No. 18 Pittsburgh McGraw hopes Friars presents another scare refocuses ND challenge for the Irish down the stretch 
By MATT LOZAR By HEATHER Sports Writer VAN HOEGARDEN
~ 
I.-
Sports Editor At the beginning of this stretch of four consecutive games After trailing one-win I against ranked teams, the Irish Providence by as many as 11 
I (14-6, 6-4 Big East) talked about points Wednesday night, No. 6 not getting too low or too high Notre Dame hopes it has after a tough loss or statement learned something. win. "I hope we've learned a les­So far, they've lived up to their son," Irish coach Muffet word. McGraw said. "I think the team Saturday's game at No. 18 knows how I felt about Pittsburgh (16-4, 6-3) provides !Wednesday's! game." them another chance. After the The Irish ta'kP a season-high win over previously undefeated eight game win streak into Boston College Tuesday night at Saturday's game against the Joyce Center, Irish coach Georgetown. This contPst will Mike Brey hit the nail on the prove to be anothflr tough Big head with his post-game assess­East game for the Irish (21-3, 9­ment of the Notre Dame locker 2 Big East) in their quest for the room. Brey told reporters the conference title. team probably wasn't giddy. "Saturday we'll Jearn what The players weren't giddy. Yes, they thought about in terms of they were enjoying the win, but how they come out 
see PITT/page 22 see MCGRAW/page 22 


HocKEY 

Irish looking to make late surge 
Six conference games remain for ND to move up in standings 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The motto of the Irish right now might as well be "better late than never." 
With just six CCIIA games remaining in the regular season, thfl Irish (5-19-6, 3-14-5) still ha~e a chance to move up a few spots in the conference stand­ings going into the playoffs.

• 
Notre Dame will begin that task this weekend as it takes on Ferris State (9-17 -4, 4-14-4) in a two-game homestand at the Joyce Center. 
The Iric;;h currently sit in 12th place in the CCHA standings with 11 points. But they are only one point behind Ferris State

... 
and two points behind Western Michigan. And with every con­ference win worth two points, Notre Dame still has enough time left to make a move to close out the season. 

"We need a win for our confi­dence, we need a win for our psyche and we need a win to move up in the standings," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "We can make our own noise and our movement here -we don't need help from anyone else, we've got to do it ourselves from where we're sitting right now." 
In their games last weekend against fourth-place Nebraska­Omaha, the Irish played neck­and-neck with the talented Mavericks for five of the first six periods. Notre Dame tied Ne­braska-Omaha 1-1 on Friday and had a 2-2 tie going into the third period of Saturday's game before falling apart in the final frame and losing by a final score of6-3. 
The Irish allowed the Mavericks to score four goals, the first time this season Notre Dame has allowed more than three goals in a period. The breakdown was indicative of a season-long trend, in which the Irish have been outshot 39-13 in the third period. 
"I wish I knew [why we don't 
see HOCKEYIpage 21 

BASEBALL 
Clem.ens he~adlines annual banquet 
Traditional Opening Night Dinner starts off team's season 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
That's not a bad way to launch the 2005 Irish baseball season. 
Seven-time Cy Young award winner Roger Clemens was the highlight speaker Thursday night at the Opening Night Dinner at the Joyce Center. Along with one of the game's all-time greatest pitchers, former Notre Dame pitcher and current Houston Astros closer Brad lldge and cur-
see BANQUET/page 21 

Closer Brad Lidge returns to Notre Dame after seven-year absence 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
When he left school after the 1998 fall semester, Brad Lidge expected to return to Notre Dame much sooner than Thursday. But between then and now, his life changed in a couple ways. 
"I've wanted to get back to 
Notre Dame quite a bit," Lidge said Thursday before flying into South Bend. "But for one reason or another I've kind of been bogged down by baseball, and my wife and I just had a baby this winter too. So there have been a few things that have pre­vented me from coming back." 
Things like pitching in Major League Baseball. Things like becoming one of the dominant closers in the National League last season. Things like leading the Houston Astros into the National League Championship Series. 
All these "things" have kept Lidge busy during the past six­plus years. But Thursday, the 1998 Big East Pitcher of the Year returned to South Bend to 
see LIDGE/page 21 
en 
HOCKEY 
ND SOFTBALl 

SMC BASKETBAll 
MENl'S TENNIS 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
MEN'S TRACK 
w 

(.) Bulldogs at Irish 
GRU Classic 

Scots at Belles 
Golden Eagles at 
Irish at Crimson 
Windsor Challenge 
Irish 

Today, 7:35 p.m. 
Today, 10 a.m. 

Saturday, 3 p.m. 
Sunday, 1 p.m. 
Today, 12:30 p.m. 
Saturday, 11 a.m.
a: ::5z 

Notre Dame looks to 
Today, 4 p.m. 

A win over Alma 
Head coach Bobby 
No. 21 Notre Dame 
Sprinters compete as
=c:s 

move up in the CCHA 
Irish face Florida and 

College will put Saint 
Bayliss looks past the 
looks to upset No. 17 
they look for qualifying 
D. c:c tc 

standings with six 
South Florida in 

Mary's in fifth place in 
team's last two losses 
Harvard. 
times for the upcoming 
games remaining. 
Gainesville, Fla. 
theMIAA. 

heading into weekend 
Big East Tournament. 
matches.

en page 20 
page 20 
page 20 

page 18 
page 18 
page 17 



