
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
St. Joseph County debates going smoke-free 
Public hearing held to discuss possible ban on lighting up in public 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
It was standing room only in the St. .losPph County Council eham­hnrs Tunsday as rnsidents took part in an intense debatP over a pro­posl~d smoking ban that would out­law lighting up in almost 1wery pub­lic venuP within the county limits. 
Tho publie forum allowed resi­dents to voieo thoir opinions to coundl nwmbnrs about the highly c:ontrovnrsial issun that will likely lw voted on this fall, eoundl mem­ber Mark Hoot said. 
''I'm just trying to got tho facts labout tlw ordinance!," Hoot said. ''I'll go honw, look through the information. but my opinion is not going to ehange tonight. It's a long proenss." 
lie said in his aroa 91 percent of n~sidenLc.; support the smoking ban. 
"I want to represent the commu­nity," lw said. ''I've b1~on doing what I ean." 
Hnsidents from tho health eare industry defnmkd the ban -dting sncondhand smokn as the third lmtding eauso of prnventable dnath in the Unitml Stat1~s. 
But several Michiana bar and restaurant owrwrs said the ordi­nancn would not only hurt their busirwsses, but also infringe on tlwir rights. . 
"Tiw gn~ator issue is freedom; I dispute tlw definition of a public place in the ordinance," said Ken l>omwlly, a St. .Joseph County resi­dent and restaurant owner. "A 
see HEARING/page 6 

Above, soph01nore Chris Hoos smokes outside ofCavanaugh Tuesday. At right, junior Tim Falvey speaks at a meeting about the proposed smoking ban.
•
PHOTOS BY DUSTIN MENNELLA AND MAlT SMEDBERG 
FACULTY SENATE 
Group gathers at first llleeting 
Members address TCEs, academic freedom and the Legion 
By MADDIE HANNA AND 
JOHN THORNTON News Writers 

Faculty Senate chairperson Seth Brown wasted n·o words in ((}lling members the pri­mary goal for the group's first meeting of the year -agenda setting. 
''I'm going to set the mood, if you will," said Brown, who began with "the charge" to the Faculty Senate ineluded in the University's Academic Articles. 
This charge, Brown said, gives the Senate great liber­ties in the issues it chooses to pursue. 
"In many ways, this is an extremely broad mandate," Brown said. "Areas where 
see FACULTY/page 4 


Students have mixed reactions to proposed legislation 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 

A proposed law in St. Joseph County that would ban smoking in spneified public areas ignited fiery opinions on both sides of the issue and left Notre Dame's small population. of student smokers fuming. 
Area rnsidents dis1:ussed and debated the pending legislation -whkh would prohibit smoking in rnstaurants, private businesses, sports arenas and other public areas 7"" at a public hearing held Tuesday in South Bend. 
No oflkial polls have been condueted to estimate the approximate percentage of student smokers at the University, though numbers appear low. But despite their diminutive numbnrs, stu­dent smokers at Notre Dame have vocalized their anger and frustration over the proposed bill. 
Sophomore Dan Toler called the ban "ridiculous." 
"All over the country, people are try­ing to tell me how to live my life," Toler said. "It's my body, and I should be able to smoke where and when I like. I'm tired or the government telling mn what's good for me." 
For many smokers, like sophomorn Nick Cottingham, the ban came to no surprise. 
"I know thorn have bonn similar bans around the U.S. and I ligure it's a mat­ter of time bel'orn they arn all ovnr the country," he said. 
In 199S, Boulder. Colo. bm:arne the first U.S. city to outlaw smoking in pub­lic places. Throe years later. Calili1rnia implemented a similar bill and instigat­ed a wave of' copycat legislation w:ross the nation on both statn-widn and rngion-wide levels. 
Today, dozens of' cities like Lexington, Ky.. Lineoln, Neb. and Austin, Texas maintain smoke-l'ren environments in speeilied public areas. Nine states have 
see SMOKING/page 8 


SMC students threatened on popular facebook site 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Women at Saint Mary's recently received threats on the popular col­lege Web site facebook.com, a College security official said. 
In an e-mail, Head of Security Patty Rolens warned students that some women have received both threats and abusive e-mails. The facebook.com system had even been infiltrated by Belles impersonators in order to gain personal informa­tion about its students. 
"In this high tech age we live in, there is someone who is even more high tech and can lind ways to mis­use the multitudes of information that the ·Internet provides," Rolens said. 
Rolens also highlighted the impor­tance of keeping passwords private and logging off all computers, espe­cially those in public places, in order to avoid identity fraud or mis-loading information. 

Keith Fowlkes, Director of Internet Technology at Saint Mary's, re'peatnd Holens' warning. 
"I echo her IHolensl remarks and would strongly advise caution and common sense wlwncvnr communi­eating with anyone online," he said. 
Fowlkes stressed that giving out personal information such as pie­turns, telephone numbers, or addresses both at sehool and at home are dangerous even at what seems to be an inrwcent organiza­tion such as f'acebook.eom. 
Many women at Saint Mary's have taken Fowlkes and Holens' advice. 
Freshman Beth Caseiari removnd her personal information after, "bning eontaetnd using my informa­tion by people I didn't evnn know." 
Freshman Brigid Fenlon rmnovnd her information from faenbook.eom because she often received ealls from individuals she did not know. 
see FACEBOOK/page 8 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Embarrassing m.om.ents 
We all do stupid things. Things that make us cringe, cry or even want to curl up and die. Sometimes we do these things with the best of intentions, other times they are embarrassing accidents, and 
Kelly Meehan 
on occasion these incidents may be the News result of the con­Production sumption of too Editor much alcohol. 
Take for exam­ple a friend of mine, who shall remain nameless, who had my house number stored in her phone instead of my cell phone. Just today she called me wanting to meet up for dinner. Thinking it was me who answered, she yelled, "Hey girrrrl! Where you at?" On the other end was my unsuspecting mother who responded by saying. "Excuse me?" My friend immediately realized her error when my mom informed her that I was at indeed not at home, but instead at college. 
Another friend of mine was in a rush the other day to visit her crush. While getting ready she was rather indecisive in what shoes to wear. While hanging out with some friends in her crush's dorm room, someone pointed out that in her rush to get ready she had put on two completely different sandals and had not noticed her fashion blunder the entire night. 
I have laughed hysterically at a friend who performed an entire choreographed dance to the song "Getting' Low" playing loudly from a nearby car in Main Circle after having too many drinks on her birthday. 
Some embarrassing moments are more common than others. We have all seen someone completely wipe out on ice while rushing to class during the winter, talk badly about someone who is in the same room as them or drop their tray in the dining hall. 
I have seen a friend run his head completely into a street sign while walking down the sidewalk in Rome, I have cringed when wind has gotten the best of a girl's loose fitting skirt and been witness to many incidents happening due to mistaken identity. 
We all performed these crazy, ridiculous and absurd actions dur­ing some point in our life. It is best to just laugh it off and realize your friends will stop talking about it someday. So stand strong and sup­po,rt your friends after they embar­rass themselves --because that has been or will be you at some point. Just remember you have given plenty of people something to laugh about. 
Oh, and I guess I have failed to mention anything embarrassing that I have done. Well, trust me I have done plenty of stupid things-­some I regret, others not so much. If you would like to know the details, I guess you will just have to ask my friends. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

--------~~-------------------------------------~-------------------------------------­
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 7, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE PROPOSED ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SMOKING BAN? 
Ryan Bailey  Eric Buell  Alex Wulz  Val Allen  Derek Lipp  Erin Ramsey  
sophomore Fisher  senior Keenan  sophomore Stanford  freshman Lewis  sophomore Keenan  freshman Pangborn  
"We'll see how it turns out. "  "Sounds like they're trying to nip cancer in the butt."  "It's about time. "  "I never did like smoke with my food."  "It's a good idea that promotes general health and comfort. "  "It will help keep my lungs clean."  


Girl captures gator after watching television show 
TARENTUM, Pa. Crocus, a 2-foot pet alliga­tor escaped from his back­yard enclosure, but was captured by a girl who used what she learned on a nature TV program. 
Nicki Hilliard and sever­al friends saw the animal swimming in the Allegheny River. 
Hilliard said she learned how to catch the animals safely by watching the tel­evision show "Crocodile Hunter." The secret is to grab the animal's snout and hold its mouth closed. 
The kids put the animal 
TODAY 
a:: 

in a beverage cooler and took it to the police sta­tion, where it was locked inside a cell until owner Belinda Thomson arrived to claim it. 
Thompson said neigh­borhood cats opened the fence in her back yard, enabling Crocus to escape. 
Unique L.A. school offers mule training 
LOS ANGELES --Sugar the mule was anything but sweet. She bit her owner, kicked him and dragged him around his corral. "At first I could do things with her, but she slowly turned on me," said Will Green, a 43-year-old warehouse­man, who bought Sugar and a two-acre Mojave desert spread to lead a life of packing and hunt­ing. 
"It's these animals; they're very smart. When you don't know, it gives them a window of oppor­tunity to take over." 
This summer, Green hauled the cranky crea­ture to what is believed to be the_ nation's only mule school at Pierce College in Woodland Hills, a Los Angeles suburb. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
1.&.1 
:::c 
!ci: 
1.&.1 

3: 
..... 
<
(.) 


0 

HIGH 83
...I LOW 70 

HIGH LOW 

81 61 


83 62 

Atlanta 82 I 64 Boston 81 I 64 Chicago 85 I 66 Denver 83 I 61 Houston -92 I 72 Los Angeles 87 I 59 Minneapolis 75 1 58 New York 84 I 66 Philadelphia 85 I 62 Phoenix 104 I 83 Seattle 78 I 55 St. Louis 89 I 67 Tampa 87 I 75 Washington 83 I 64 
. ........... ..: . 
IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame and the University of Guadalajara stu­dent teams will present reports of their 2005 summer intern­ships in Mexico on Thursday at 
3:00 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center. The summer intern­ships are part of a U.S. Agency for International Development grant received by the Mendoza College of Business and the Kellogg Institute. Students interested in 2006 summer internships in Mexico are invit­ed to attend. 
A conference titled "Capture Gamma-Ray Spectroscopy and Related Topics" will take place all day through Friday in the McKenna Hall auditorium. The themes of the conference include Nuclear Structure, Nuclear Symmetries, Nuclear Astrophysics and Instrumenta­tion, Facilities and Applications of Nucie·ar Science. 
The tri-military branches of ROTC will sponsor a Patriot's Day ceremony Friday at 7 a.m. next to the Hesburgh Library Reflecting Pool. The event will feature speaker retired Lieutenant Colonel Douglass R. Hemphill, a former Notre Dame professor of Military Science and current academic advisor in the Mendoza College of Business. The public is invited to attend. 
An exhibit entitled Two Italian Hardbodies: Sports Cars Clad by Scaglietti and Frua will be on display in the Suite Museum of Art Entrance Atrium Gallery until Sept. 18. The exhibit fea­tures a 1958 Ferrari and a 1955 Maserati. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH LOW 

Wednesday, September 7, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC plagued -with voicemail probletns 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
Tnchnologieal hnadachns have been plaguing the Saint Mary's campus the past li1w weeks a.-, the tnlnmrnmunications and inliJrma­tion tndmology departments have struggled with an outdated voicmnail now. 
Fowlkes said that all voicemail boxes should have been working since last Tunsday .. 
Many students and faculty members around campus were not even aware that the voicemail 
" system was not working. "1 was not even aware that thorn was a prob­lem with the voice­
system. mail system," jun­
"We are looking

The voicmnail ior Laura Corke
into other options 

sysllm1 on campus said. "I usc my cell is provided by NEC right now, such as phonn for almost l~lel'.tronics, which all of my calls and
other voicemail 

reC11ntly rnlnasnd barely use the
companies that are

an update to the phone in my room voicnmail system more reliable. " so there hasn't that tlw Collnge bnen a necessity pun:hasnd two for me to set it up
Keith Fowlkes

y11ars ago. yet." "We wnrn schnd­director Susan Baxter, a ulnd to have an Information Technology professor in the 
update on voien­mail sol'tware and hardware," said Keith Fowlkes, dirm:tor of Information Technol­ogy. "The software support has bPf'll droppml liw the current ver­sion by tlw company, and we have hnnn forcnd to upgrade. 
Thn company was supposed to upgrade to tho new sol'tware two weeks before any studnnts rnturrwd to campus, hut litilnd to do so." 
Failurn on tlw part of NEC to provide tlw College with the nec­essary upgrade liJrcnd a return to tlw old vokemail systmn, Fowlkns said. 
"We had to go back to thn old sof'twaw. which has tnrribln prob­lnms with thn management soft­warn which wn w1~r11 already aware of, as was the eompany," lw said. 
Despite tlwso setbacks, all voiemnail should be functioning 
communication 
and performance studies dnpartment, said her voicemail is fully functional. 
"My voieemail has been work­ing just line. I had trouble setting it up bncause I moved my oflice, but I ealled information technolo­~~. and tl~ey walked me through It, she said. 
The Collnge plans to continuo to usn the system without updat1~s JiJr now since work has been done to make it functional. Fowlkes said he advises any student<> and faculty who continue to have problems to eontaet tnlecommuni­cations for assistance as he attempt<> to find a better service. 
"Wn are looking into other options right now, such as other voicemail companies that are more reliable," he said. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

ND researcher leads cancer study 
Special to The Observer 

A team of scientists led by a Notre Dame cancer resea­rcher has found further evi­dence that an antipsychotic drug also may help prevent chemotherapy-induced nau­sea and vomiting. 
Rudolph Navari, director of Notre Dame's Walther Cancer llesearch Center, has been leading a team of researchers from the Indiana University and University of Kentucky Medical Schools and the Walther Cancer Institute's Hoosier Oncology Group in a 
study of a drug called olanazapine for the control of chemotherapy's most common side effects. Olanzapine, which carries the brand name Zyprexa, has been used since the mid-1990s to treat schizo­phrenia and other psy­choses. 
In a Phase I study, the researchers found that when olanzapine was added to the standard mix of drugs used to relieve nausea and vomit­ing given to patients prior to receiving chemotherapy, there was essentially no nausea or vomiting in the 24-hour period following treatment. Olanzapine also prevented nausea and vom­iting during the week after chemotherapy if it was given daily for two to five days. 
"Our recently published Phase II study reinforces the findings of the Phase I study <ind provides further evi­dence that olanzapine is safe and highly effective in con­trolling acute and delayed chemotherapy-induced nau­sea and vomiting," Navari said. "The response to olazapine and control of nau­sea was equal or greater than in the Phase I study." 
Navari points out that ont~ elass of drugs used historically to treat chemotherapy­induced nausea and vomiting is corticosteroids. 
"Corticoteroids can be very effective, but they have many side effects and we worry about using them for as long as five or six days," Navari said. "In a recently completed but unpublished study, we substituted olanzapino for corticosteroids and demon­strated that it was as effective in controlling nausea and vomiting without the side effects. It appears that we can probably replace corticos­teroids and effectively usn olanzapinn for three or four days." 
Navari points out that using olanzapine to control chnmothnrapy-induced nau­sea and vomiting is an "off­labnl usn" for tlw antipsychot­ic drug. llowcvcr, he notes that many drugs on the mar­ket are currently being safnly used for off-label purposes. 


FREE 
Practice Test! 
LSAT GMAT GRE MCAT DAY' 
Saturday, September 10th Times vary by test All tests in DeBartolo Hall Call or visit us online today to register! 
1·800-KAP·TEST kaptest.com 

•rust nsrnas oro regtslerud 
trademarks of U1eir respective owners. 


UBS offers talented individuals a world of opportunities. If you are interested in an exciting and rewarding career in global financial services, join us for our information session. You can meet UBS staff and learn more about life at a global financial powerhouse. 
Business Area: Investment Banking Date: September 7, 2005 Time: 7:00PM-9:00PM Venue: Center Dining Area 
Resume Drop Due Date: September 18, 2005 Please apply online through your career services website. UBS is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in its workplace (M/F/DN). 
You&Us 
Wealth Global Asset Investment Management Management Bank 
*UBS 

' 
~ 
-
' 
--------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 7, 2005 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
faculty involvement is appro­priate could mean all areas of the University. I encourage 
you to think broadly and cre­are most pressing." atively." Although he acknowledged Brown instructed the the benefits to being inde­Senate's four subcommittees pendent from the administra­
Academic Affairs, tion, Brown said greater inte­Administrative, Benefits and gration with University gov­Student Affairs -to "raise ernment processes would give new issues and decide which Faculty Senate more "reso-
Bessette House of Discernment University of Notre Dame Congregation of Holy Cross Brothers of the Midwest Province 
Are you interested in spiritual direction? 
Would you ~ike a place for solitude for a morning, an afternoon, a full day or a weekend? 
Are you interested in a directed one or two day personal retreat? 
Are you and a group of friends interested in guided reflection upon scripture or discernment of vocation? 
Contact Brother Philip R. Smith, CSC at 57 4-631-0995 
psmith@brothersofholycross.com 



nance." "There are structural oppor­tunities to change," he said. 
Brown encouraged members to consider the possibility of expanding the Senate's influ­ence in addition to their indi­vidual committee agendas. 
Gail Bederman, who filled in for Student Affairs committee chair Philippe Collon, said the committee would focus on three issues: student teacher course evaluations (TCEs), stu­dent academic freedom and student discour­tesy at Irish bas­

"What would Jesus 
ketball games. "FTT [Film, The TCE issue think ofthe Television and was originally Theatre], they're
Leprechaun
brought to getting a lot of
Legion?"
Faculty Senate's flak," Bederman attention by stu­said. "Serious dent govern­Kelly Jordan flak." ment. After last But other com­
committee member 
year's discussion about making TCE results public to students ended inconclusively in Faculty Senate, Bederman said the question shifted to an external committee headed by associate provost Dennis Jacobs. 
But Student Affairs commit­tee members did not know what progress the external committee had made. Committee member Barry Keating said the Mendoza College of Business conducted a separate analysis with results that differed greatly from those of Institutional Research. 
"If that's really the case, do we really want to give the numbers to the administration for what they use it for? To the students, for what they use it for?" Keating asked. '~Because I don't think we know what the numbers mean." 
Bederman vocalized the committee's confusion result­ing from the conflict. 
"It sounds like we're not entirely clear on this," she said. "We need more inform­tion." 
Dame students even have aca­demic freedom as defined by the American Association of University Professors. 
"People who come from pub­lic universities know what kind of freedom they have," Bederman said. "You come here, it's not clear what free­dom students have." 
Bederman cited last year's controversial Vagina Monologues and Queer Film Festival, two productions that provoked questions about aca­
demic freedom at 
Notre Dame. 
mittee members 
were hesitant to stir the ire of the administra­tion. 
"The bees might swarm," committee member Bob Howland said. 
The other item the Student Affairs committee decided to explore was the issue of stu­dent vulgarity at Notre Dame basketball games. Committee member Kelly Jordan said he did not feel comfortable taking his daughter to games any­more. 
"When the opposing players are introduced, at one of the most prestigious universities in the U.S., the unanimous response is 'sucks,"' Jordan said. "What would Jesus think of the Leprechaun Legion?" 
In other Faculty Senate news: 
+ 
Bederman and fellow St­udent Affairs committee mem­ber Ramzi Bualuan were elect­ed to the two delegate posi­tions on the Campus Life Council for the 2005-06 aca­demic year. 

+ 
Student Affairs committee member Kevin Misiewicz was elected to the Traffic Appeals committee for the 2005-06 


academic year.

Student academic freedom was the other hot-button issue presented by the Student Contact Maddie Hanna at Affairs committee. Bed.erman mhannal@nd.edu and John questioned whether Notre Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 7, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Child survives airplane crash 
MEDAN, Indonesia-A 5-year-old boy given up l'or dead in a plane crash in Indonesia that killed 148 people has boon found in a hospital and reunited with his parents. 
Invnstiga tors sifted Tuesday through the charn~d wreckage of' the Mandala Airlines' Boning 737-200, trying to dntorminn why it slamrnod onto a crowded street in Indonesia's third-largest city, creating a path of' destruction as it plowed into houses, cars, and pmlestrians. 
Tho dnad in Monday's crash ineluded 101 pass1~ng1~rs and crow and 4 7 people on the ground. Sixteen people aboard thn flight sur­vived. ineluding 5-year-old Ponto Panjaitan, who had been traveling to .Jakarta with his rather. 
Chirac politically vulnerable 
l'AHIS -.Jacques Chintc's hospitalization f'or a vascular problem in his eye has been dnscrilwd as minor, but it appears to have galvaniznd possible successors and caused a rnmlia uproar about the naked ambitions of Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy. 
The 72-year-old president, who has docked mon~ than f'our dncades in politics, seems less likely than evnr to run f'or re-election in 2007. 
Chirae. prinwd on thn notions of' grandnur dear to his mnntor Charles de Gaulle, has always lnl'l opPn thn possibility of snnking a third tPrrn, a way to gain l1werage over rivals. 
But tho prnsident has been wnakened in wcent years by a series of political setbacks, most n~enntly the "no" victory in Franee's May 29 rnti~nHHium on the European consti­tution. Tlw prnsidnnt had staked his political honor on passage. Now. he is as politically vuhwrabln as lw has ever been. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Roberts, Bush mourn Rehnquist 
WASIIINCTON -.John Hobnrts had thought lw'd bn arriving at tlw Supreme Court this month as a new assodate justice, ready to don a black robe and make history alongside his mentor, Chid' .Justie1~ William II. Hchnquist. Instead. on Tuesday hn helped carry Hnhnquist's casket up the marble steps of the eourL 
Hoborts. tnary-1~yed justices and a somber l'rnsidm1t Bush led a long linn of Americans paying their last n~speets to the chief justice whose conservatism helped turn tho high rourt toward the right over the past thme decades. 
The stone-faced Hoberts was one of eight pallbearers who struggled at times to get H111mquist's flag-draped casket into the court's Gnmt llall and onto the Lineoln Catafalque, the structure used for Prnsident Lincoln's cof­fin. 
Army base security in question 
WASIIJN(;'['()N -A labor union is report­ing significant security problems at seven Army bases where federal contractors are guarding the gates, freeing up soldiers to servo in Iraq. 
Basml on intervinws with 15 current and former guards, thn Service Employees International Union says job screening is ol'tnn inadn!JUate and that security chocks at tlw gates are rn~quently cursory because stalling levels arn too low. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Plans to quicken South Shore train 
VALI'AHAISO, Ind. -Aiming to speed up travel times, the managers of northern Indiana's commuter rail line are reviewing plans to allow for faster boarding of ears so that passengers can be whisked to their destinations with fewer delays. 
The plans for the South Shore rail system arn nvolving at a time of rising ridership on the trains that run from South Bend across LaPorte, Porter and Lake counties into <:hieago. 
With gas priees at reeord highs, a grow­ing nurnbor of motorists are riding the trains. 
Bush wants $40 billion more 
President to request additional funding to cover next phase ofKatrina relief effort 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON­
President Bush intends to 
seek as much as $40 billion 
to cover the next phase of 
relief and recovery from 
Hurricane Katrina, con­
gressional ol'f'ieials said 
Tuesday as leading law­
makers and the White 
House pledged to investi­
gate an initial federal 
response widely con­
demned as woefully inade­
quate. 
One week after the hurri­
cane inDicted devastation 
of biblical proportions on 
the Gulf Coast, Senate 
Demoeratie leader llarry 
Heid, D-Nev., said the total 
tab for thfl fo~eral govern­
ment may top $150 billion. 
At the same time, senators 
in both parties said they 
suspeet price gouging by oil 
companies in the storm's 
al'tnrmath. 
Helie!' and recovery needs will be the "numbnr one priority for the foreseeable future," pledged House Majority Leader Torn DeLay of Texas as Congross convened aller a live-week vacation. 
Hepublieans and Dem­ocrats alike heaped criti­eism on the Pederal Emergency Management Administration, the govern­ment's front-line responder agency for national disas­ters. House Demoeratic leader Naney Pelosi told Bush to his face at the White I louse that he should l1n1 tho agency's director, Miehael Brown. "The presi­dent thanked me !'or my suggestion," the California Democrat said allerward. 
Stung by earlier criticism, Bush invited congressional leaders to the White I louse for an afternoon meeting, then dispatched several Cabinet officials to the Capitol to brief rank-and­file members. "Bureau­cracy is not going to stand in the way of getting the job done for the people," Bush told reporters. 
House and Senate com­mittee chairmen ann­ounced investigations, 


AP A Marine reservist, who was part of a volunteer search and rescue team In Elysian Fields, New Orleans, helps rescue a man from a roof top on Tuesday. 
while House Speaker Dennis Hastert suggested a bipartisan House-Senate probe. "We're ready to get going," he said. 
Whatever their plans, lawmakers took largely symbolic actions on their first day in the Capitol since the storm -the Senate expressing condo­lences to victims of the storm and the House observing a moment of silence. 
Bush did not specify at the meeting with congres­sional leaders how much he would request for addi­tional relief. A $10.5 billion down-payment approved last week is "being used at an increasingly rapid pace. 
We're readying a second installment now and a pre­cise number is currently being determined," said Scott Milburn, an Office of Management and Budget spokesman. 
The congressional of'fi­cials who said the total eould be as high as $40 bil­lion from Congress did so on condition of anonymity because it was not clear when the formal announce­mont would be made. Heid said he expected a request in the range of $40 billion to $50 billion. 
The unprecedented seope of the destruction swiftly shot relief and recovery items to the top of Congress' autumn to-do list. 
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist. H-Tenn. put ofT planned votes on Plimina­tion of the inlwritanee tax, a GOP priority, and Sen. Charles Grassley, H-lowa, said the nnnd to addrnss hurricane-related dirtkul­ties would further postpone action Bush's long-delayed call for overhauling Soda! Seeurity. 
At tho same limn, Frist. like Bush, made elear Hepublieans want John Hoborts eonfirrnod as the nation's 17th chief justice in timn to take his seat before the (kt. 3 opnning of the Supreme Court's term. Hearings on Hoberts' nomi­nation open noxt Monday. 
IRAQ 

Talabani says Saddam owned up 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Iraq's president said Tuesday that Saddarn Hussein had confessed to killings and other "crimes" committed during his regime, including the massaere of thousands of Kurds in the late 1980s. 
President Jalal Talabani told Iraqi television that he had been informed by an investigating judge that "he was able to extract confessions from Saddam's mouth" about crimes "such as executions" which the oust­ed leader had personally ordered. 
Asked about specific examples, 
Talabani, a Kurd, replied "Anfal," the eodename for the 1987-88 cam­paign which his Patriotic Union of Kurdistan maintains led to the deaths of about 182,000 Kurds and the destruction of "dozens of Kurdish villages." 
Those villages incIuded Halabja, where thousands of Kurdish vil­lagers were gassed in 1988. 
However, Abdel Haq Alani, a legal consultant to Saddam's family said Saddam did not mention any confes­sion when he met Monday with his Iraqi lawyer. 
"Is this the fabrication of Talabani or what? Let's not have a trial on TV. 
Let the court of law, not the media. make its ruling on this," Alani said. 
Saddarn faces his first trial Oct. 19 for his alleged roln in another atroci­ty -tho 1982 massacre of Shiites in Dujail, a town north of Baghdad, fol­lowing an assassination attempt there against him. 
The Iraqi Special Tribunal has decided to conduet trials on separate alleged offenses rather than I um p 
them all together in  a  single pro­ 
ceeding.  
Saddam  could  face  the  death  

penalty if convicted in the Dujail case, tho only one referred to trial so far. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 7, 2005 
affect her seven daughters as they grew up -six of whom
Hearing 
were varsity athletes at Notre continued from page 6 
Dame. 

"It is absurd to say that restaurant or bar is private prop­because someone smells a ciga­erty. Joe's bar belongs to Joe. rette that they're going to get Let's go for freedom, that's the lung cancer," she said. "Let me American way." tell you, let's do the common 
If passed, the ordinance would sense thing and stop this almost ban smoking in nearly every complete Nazism that we're see­indoor facility in St. Joseph ing." County. The proposed ban comes after 
At Notre Dame. smoking is seven years of work on the part 
already prohibited  of  the  Healthy  
in all buildings, sta­ Communities  
diums  and  "Let's pass this  Initiative  - a  
University-owned vehic!l~s. Sho.uld this ordinance  ordinance and get this community out  group dedicated to making smoking a socially unaccept­ 
pass,  smoking  of the lists ofone of  able behavior, said  
would be outlawed  the worst places to  Amy Clifl'ord, who  
nearly everywhere at the University ­ live in America. "  spearheaded the project.  
from construction  "The initiative is  
sites to bus stops to  Patrick Kane  meant to reduce  
dorm courtyards. Popular student  Notre Dame senior  and prevent peo­ple from smoking  
bars like Corby's  in the first place.  

and the Linebacker-which It's a multi-faceted approach to allow anyone over the age of 18 the healthcare epidemic," she to smoke in the facility -would said. "Quitting smoking is one of bn exempt from the ordinance, the most important things an but restaurants would be subject individual can do to improve to its provisions. their health." 
Hospital executives brought The debate heated up when overhead slides to the forum as Notre Dame senior Patrick Kane proof of smoking's took the stand. harmful effects. "I need to make 
"As CEO of a "We [restaurant a decision of where large organization I will live when I
and bar owners] 

that is smoke-free, graduate. I have to 
are just trying to

the greatest job we tell you, I have a have is to role make a living." pretty easy deci­model the behav­sion to make ­iors we want to why live in an area
Rocco Zappia

see in our commu­where my health
sports bar owner

nity," said C.E.O. of takes a backseat to Memorial Hospital nicotine addicts?" Philip Newbold. he said. "Let's pass 
"We need this ordinance to this ordinance and get this com­send a message and create an munity out of the lists of one of environment that supports the worst places to live in Hoosiers." America." 
Mary Rice, a lifelong smoker Sports bar owner Rocco and opponent of the ordinance, Zappia, who says his livelihood said her habit did not negatively depends on the success of his 
Share your space, but live on your own. 
business, spoke out after Kane and bar owners] are just trying was fmished. to make a living." 
"This guy [Kane] wants to blow As of January 2004, five states his horn, woop dee doo," Zappia -California, Connecticut, said. "He's marketing major -Delaware, Maine and New York until he owns his own business -and 72 municipalities in the he doesn't know. We [restaurant United States had passed laws 
otre a e I 
t 
t I 

WORRY NO MORE 
Learn the fundamentals of sound investment decisions in an interactive environment where YOU are the investor. 
HOW? 

Manage a REAL portfolio valued at over 
$300,000!!! 
-No head-scratching necessary. 
Join us for our informational meeting at 7:30p.m. this Wednesday, September 7 inDeBartolo 102. 
You may also sign up at the WallStreet 101 forum 
that prohibit smoking in almost all workplaces, restaurants, and bars, according to the Centers for Disease Control. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

All furnishings p•ctureo are from Wai-Mart 
WAL*MART" 
Get everything for your dorm room at Walmart.com and still afford tuition. ALWAYS LOW PRICES. 
~· 
Walmart.com 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, September 7, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET 
RECAP 
Dow 
10,589.24 +141.87

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,390 15 I ·~ 1,933,568,070 

AMEX 1.686.21 +6.17 NASDAQ 2,166.S6 +25.79 NYSE 7,618.96 +87.83 S&PSOO 1,233.39 +15.37 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 12,599.43 +0.00 FTSE IOO(Lonclon) 5,359.20 +21.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) + 1.47 +0.57 39.34 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +2.71 +0.48 18.20 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.07 -0.02 27.00 INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.66 +0.42 25.70 APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL) +5.58 +2.58 48.80 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.44 +0.62 43.54 I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.39 +0.56 40.85 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.30 +0.50 38.89 3-MONTH BILL +0.98 +0.33 34.10 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.61 65.96 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +0.1 0 448.50 PO~K BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.98 80.58 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 09.6650 EURO 0.8021 POUND 0.5427 CANADIAN$ 1.1892 
IN BRIEF 
NBC News president resigns NEW YOHK -NBC News President Neal Shapiro has resigned after four years. 
I lis exit was widely expected, and he report­edly had been negotiating his departure for months. 
Steve Capus was named acting president by NBC Universal Television Group boss Jeff Zucker, who in June promoted Capus from "NBC Nightly News" executive producer to senior vice president of the network's news division, whieh ineludes MSNBC. 
A former producer of ABC's "PrimeTime Live," Shapiro went to NBC News in March 1993 to pick up the pieces as executive pro­ducer of "Dateline NBC" after that news­magazine was mired in a scandal over a rigged report on the dangers of GM pickup trucks. 
Bringing credibility to the broadcast, he oversaw its expansion to several nights a week as it won awards and robust ratings. 
lie was named NBC News president in June 2001. Under his tenure, ratings leader "Nightly News" made a smooth transition of anchormen from Tom Brokaw to Brian Williams late last year. 
But Shapiro's term was also marked by audience inroads for ABC's "Good Morning America" against a major profit center for NBC, "Today." Meanwhile, MSNBC has contin­twd to fare poorly in ratings against its cable­news rivals, CNN and Fox News Channel. 
Gas prices deter holiday traffic 
NEW YOHK-Labor Day traffic slowed around the eountry as drivers lucky to lind gas stations open paid over 30 percent more than bnfore llurrieane Katrina disrupted Gulf Coast rnlincry and pipelinn operations a week ago. 
Pump prkns arn starting to level off. but ana­lysl<; say tho dramatic risn in gasoline costs has fon:ed 1:onsumnrs to begin rethinking everything from vaeation travnl plans to how much they can allhrd to speml for food, dothing and restaurant meals. 
Drivers paid an avnrage of about $:t20 a gal­lon for unlnadnd rngular on Monday, up $1.35 from a year ago, and 75 cents morn than they did b1~fill'e llw hurricane, according to Handy Bly. dirnc:tor of eommunity n~lations for AAA Auto Club South. 
Evacuees strain state budgets 
Lawmakers opt to help displaced Katrina victims now, sort out the bill later 
Associated Press 

llurrieane evacuees seek­ing food stamps in Texas started as a trickle and quickly turned into a torrent -eight applications the first day mushroomed to morn than 26,000 within four days. To varying degrees. the same story is playing out around the eountry as state and local governmnnts take in Gulf Coast rPI'ugees by the thou­sands, taxing social pro­grams that in many 1:asns already were strntdwd thin. 
Minnesota, alroady work­ing to absorb a wave of roughly 5,000 Ilmong refugees from Laos, is preparing for up to 3,000 Katrina vietims while still feeling budget cuts in health assistance and job training that have taken effect since 2001. 
"Wn're not what we were five years ago," said Marcia Avner of the Minnesota Council of Non-Profits. "And the reality is, private charity cannot make up the differ­ence." 
In Oklahoma, Gov. Brad Henry spoke for many Tuesday when he talked of a desire to be helpful tem­pered by the concern that "we don't want to stretch ourselves too thin." 
"We know it will be a strain," he said. "I think we will be OK." 
In many places, concerns about cost were taking a Services. Each state is coping in il<; far more in the days ahead. back seat to the impulse to That thought was echoed own way. Arkansas' gover­including assistance target­help, at least for now. across the country, in South nor wants to tap the state's ed lor housing, health care, 
San Francisco was moving Carolina, which prepared to $100 million budget surplus; education and other needs. ahead with plans to house take in as many as 18,000 Tennessee is dipping into its Texas expecl<; the Federal at least 300 Katrina evac­refugees. rainy-day fund, at least tem­Emergency Management uees despite warnings that "The cost associated with porarily; Massachusetts was Agency "to reimburse us the city could lose out on this is kind of secondary at working on an emergency 100 percent for everything," federal money by respond­the moment," said Chris spending bill. said Robert Black. a ing too quickly to a Red Drummond, a spokesman And states are counting spokesman for Gov. Hick Cross request for help. for Gov. Mark Sanford, on significant help from the Perry. 
"We're taking these 300 adding that the state still federal government, which But the notion that whether we get reimbursed remembers the help it got approved a $10.5 billion Washington would pick up or not," said Annemarie when hit by Hurricane Hugo down payment for hurri­the tab for all hurricane­Conroy, director of the city's in 1989. "We're going to cane relief last week. related costs seemed a bit Office of Emergency return the favor." Congress is likely to approve rosy. 

Lilly asks insurers for claim money 
that it knew then the drug could Gerling-Konzern Allgemeine Versic­
Associated PR:ss 

cause harmful, diabetes-related side herungs AG, and ELCO Insurance Co. 
INDIANAPOLIS -Eli Lilly and Co. effects in some users. All but ELCO have refused to pay wants its insurers to cover half of the Hiding that information was "egre­claims Lilly has submitted to reim­$1 billion it has set aside to pay prod­gious" behavior by Lilly and voids the burse it for legal bills and other costs uct-liability claims involving the com­coverage. the insurers say in court related to Zyprexa product-liability lit­pany's top-selling drug Zyprexa. motions. igation. 
The amount Lilly seeks from the The insurers argue that if they had ELCO said it should be dismissed insurers was confirmed this week by known about Zyprexa's serious side from the lawsuit because ELCO has the Indianapolis-based drug maker, effects, they "would not have agreed not refused to pay claims it has gotten which is suing live of its insurers to to· insure Lilly at all, would have from Lilly. Based in Bermuda. ELCO is force them to pay. Previously. the excluded coverage for Zyprexa . . . or a Lilly fully-owned subsidiary. information had been partially would have provided insurance cover­Lilly sued its own subsidiary detailed in court records. age to Lilly on terms and conditions because "we are obliged to treat ELCO 
A $500 million payout by insurers substantially different." as an arm's-length independent enti­would hAip cover the $1.07 billion "Lilly knew Zyprexa represented a ty," Lilly spoknswoman Joan Todd Zyprexa-related write-off Lilly took in serious liability exposure to it and to said. the second quarter regarding claims any insurer that provided coverage to The live eompanies providnd $400 over the popular anti-psychotic. Lilly," said SH International Business million in eoverage that Lilly wants 
Four of the insurers are fighting Insurance Co., one of' the companies them to honor, Todd said. Lilly is in Lilly's lawsuit, filed in March in feder­Lilly is suing. arbitration talks with additional insur­al court in Indianapolis. They argue The others are North American ers that. providnd tlw rmnaining $100 Lilly bought liability coverage l'or Speeialty Insurance Co., Winterthur million in Zyprexa liability eovnragn, Zyprexa in 2000 without disclosing Schwoizerische Vcrsicherungs AG, shn said. 
. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 7, 2005 
public would support or protest the decision of the establish­

S01oking 
ment owner with their patron­continued from page 1 age." 
Kent said both smoking and passed similar laws prohibiting refraining from smoking are cigarette smoke in restaurants, individual freedoms which bars and other indoor locations. should not be infringed upon. 
Sophomore Francis Smith said "Smoking is a personal choice; there are "absolutely" no advan­it is true that second-hand tages to the ban. smoke can have 
"Though Notre negative effects Dame doesn't have on people who
"It seems to be a

too many smokers, are continually I imagine South trend in America exposed to it for Bend has its fair long periods of
nowadays to treat 

share," he said. time," she said.
smokers as lepers

"Because of that, "From that same the local economy and this [ban] is reasoning, how­is going to be hurt just one sign ofit. ,, ever, working in 
by people no or eating at a bar longer coming to or restaurant bars." that allows
Francis Smith In addition to sophomore smoking is also a 

criticism that the proposed ban will negatively influence the local economy in South Bend and the rest of St. Joseph County, detractors said the legislation would deter the American value of choice and eliminate certain personal freedoms. 
One organization on campus that has expressed deep opposi­tion to the ban is the College Libertarians of Notre Dame. In addition to citing negative eco­nomic implications, members claim the bill is a direct threat to some of their "most fundamen­tal Constitutional rights." 
"As defenders of freedom, individual rights, and personal choice, we believe that owners of private establishments such as bars and restaurants should have the right to decide whether they will allow or prohibit smok­ing on their property," co-presi­dent Catherine Kent said. "The personal choice." 
But for sopho­more Timmy Falvey -a fervent supporter of the ban -cigarette smoke and its associated health hazards take precedence over the economic and political impli­cations of the proposed bill. 
"Smoking killed my grandfa­ther, who battled the symptoms of emphysema for many years before he passed," Falvey said. "I have never been much of an activist, but in response to situa­tions such as this, it is my patri­mony to take the issue head on and turn the negative into posi­tive." 
Falvey, who attended Tuesday's public forum, said the legislation's rewards would be "conspicuously apparent." 
"[The ban's main advantage is] clear air-inside various public venues for those of us who choose to exercise our freedom not to smoke," he said. 

"Indirectly, it sends a message to those who inhibit my right to breathe clean air that their deci­sions are not agreeable." 
Toler said the ban would likely only benefit non-smokers who tend to ostracize the minority population of smokers at Notre Dame and elsewhere. 
"The people who fake a cough when I pass them on the quad, or give me weird looks," Toler said, "they're the only ones who will find 'advantages' to this bill." 
Smith agreed that smokers are often confronted with feel­ings of scorn or contempt from the non-smoking public. 
"It seems to be a trend in America nowadays to treat smokers as lepers and this [ban] is just one sign ofit," Smith said. 
Although student smokers were passionate in their opposi­tion to the bill, many were also disenchanted and felt there was little 
they can do to "It's my body and I tion to the reverse the growing should be able to couhty commis­number of smoking sioner's office
smoke where and
bans. prior to the offi­
when I like.,, 
"Nobody cares cial vote. what I say· or do Hartung said anyways, since I'm a if the bill goes
Dan Toler 

smoker," Toler said. through, the
sophomore

"My plan is to do the 
same thing I do at home, where a similar ban exists, which is just to ignore it. If someone wants to fine me, they can be my guest, but I'm not giving up my right to smoke just because a bunch of stuffed­shirt politicians say I have to." 
Cottingham said he was "too lazy" to take any action against the proposed law. 
"I rarely go to any restaurants that allow smoking anyway, and I'm not old enough to go to bars, so I'm not too worried about it," Cottingham said. "[Also,] there's nowhere on campus that you can smoke indoors anyway." 
Smith was also apathetic con­cerning action against the ban. 
"I really [couldn't] care less what happens in this city," he said. 
But Kent and the College Libertarians were much more proactive in their efforts to "ban the smoking ban." Co-president (and Observer Viewpoint colum­nist) Scott Wagner wrote a letter to the South Bend Tribune encouraging citizens to vocalize their opposition to the proposed law. 
Both Kent and Wagner attend­ed the public hearing to voice their own concerns and distrib­ute information to those in attendance. Kent said they will also collect signatures from Notre Dame students and sub­mit them in the form of a peti­
county should 
plan to create "adequate, accessible, and fair smoking areas." 
"Everyone knows that [smok­ing] is an addiction and they better take that into account," he said. "Otherwise, they are going to have a lot of really irri­table people now with more time on their hands with which to protest." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

Facebook 
continued from page 1 
"I took my cell phone ofl' face­book because on weekends I would get random phone calls from numbers I didn't recog­nize asking if I wanted to hang out because they saw me on facebook," Fenlon said. 
Some students said they have always been cautious of the Web site. 
"I always make sure never to accept any friend invitations from people I don't know," freshman Lisa Anderson said. "I did that a couple times and ended up removing them because I got IMed randomly by people I didn't know through anything other than facebook." 
Saint Mary's students have been experiencing similar problems with students receiv­ing threatening and abuse emails through internet chat rooms. 
"Not everyone is as nice, cute and funny as they may sound online," Holens said. "You should never make plans to meet a 'friend' in person." 
Students have also reported stolen credit card information and unknown e-mail attach­ments that are used to track a student's information. 
Holens and Fowlkes stressed that students understand that personal information should be private and exposing such information is dangerous, espe­cially to people that they have just met or have not met at all. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Are you an officer in a recognized club? 
If so, make sure you donlt miss the Mandatory Club Information Meetings next week 
* Tuesday 9/6/05 @ 5:00 PM & 6:00 PM Wednesday 9(7/05 @ 5:00 PM & 6:00 PM Thursday 9/8/05 @ 5:00PM & 6:00PM 

Each eoneession stand
ALL CIMS TAKE PLACE IN 

group must have at least
Montgomery Auditorium in LaFortune 
two students trained 
* 

-~ AH training from the
Two executive officers (President VP, Treasurer, Secretary) from each club must attend one of these meetings. spring is still valid for All clubs are welcome at any CIM. the 2005 Football season Each officer may attend a different meeting. Meet1ngs will last approximately 1 hour. 
Questions? .Jennifer Uager Student Aetiviti.es Office 
This maintains your club1S active status with 
jrager1 @nd.edu
the SAO and the CCC. Clubs missing 2 officers jeopardize their use of CCC allocations, concession stands, posting & room reservation privileges, and more. 
Questions? Email: ccc@nd.edu or ageist@nd.edu 


Wednesday, September 7, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

You're innovative, talented and want to push yourself. You're looking for an employer with whom you can realize your greatest ambitions. Please join us for a Presentation and Invitation Only Poker Tournament and find out what perspectives we can offer you: 
Date: September 14, 2005 Time: 7:00 PM -8:00 PM Location: McKenna Hall, Room 210 Divisions Present: Global Markets and Global Banking: Corporate Finance 
Following the presentation, Deutsche Bank will host a poker tournament for 30 students from the Class of 2006. 
Interested students, please email your resume with your area of interest (ie. Global Markets, Global Banking) to Michaei.Melby@db.com by Friday, September 9, 2005. Space is limited. Presentation is mandatory in order to participate in the tournament. 
www.db.com/careers 
I./I

A Passion to Perform. Deutsche Bank 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, September 7, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Tlu lnd¥fJtmdnu, Daily New~aper Serving Notre Dame mrd Sai,t MJJ.ry's 

Storm warning 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri An DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63\-7471 fAX (574) 63I-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63 I -4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 63I-53I3 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 63I-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 63I-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. I @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 63I-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on coment. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opil)ions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefC!aire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObM:rvtr {US I''$ '5991-4000) is p1thli~hcd Monday through Friday ex~cpt during exam il.lld vaQtion periods. A \Uhscription to The Ob~tvtr is $} UO for one acadcmi.; y(ar; .$iS fot one !l!tncstcr. 
The Observer is ptthlishcd :u: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dinin~ Hall Send addr~ cot·recdtll1S co: 
Notre Dame, IN 465%-0779 ·nlt· Ohservcr 
Periodical postage paid at Norre D.unc P.O. Box 779 
;~nd a?ditit.mal m.:tiling offices. 024 South Dining Ha(( 
Nlltre Dame, IN 46556~0779 
The 01-o~rvcr is a mcmha ofthe Assod;~.1cd PreM. All n:prodUL'fion rights arc reserved. 

Hurricane Katrina was only a warn­ing shot. 
While it is true that tropical storms and hurricanes have been laying waste to coastlands throughout recorded his­tory, and that they will continue to do so forever, in the last century two critical factors changed, which may conspire to make the upcom­ing century one of unprecedented natu­ral turmoil. First, the average temperature of the world's oceans has increased by more than 1 degree Fahrenheit, and is still rising. Second, the government of the United States has decided that it is invincible. 
These two factors are not independ­ent. The government has expended considerable effort (and distorted many scientific studies) in ordQr to avoid the short-term economic impact of a corrective reduction in green­house gases. Unwilling to admit to its mistakes and allow for this correction, the United States-along with a handful of other recalcitrant nations -permits the causes of global warm­ing to perpetuate unchecked. But this short-term focus has blinded t!Hl United States to the larger economic, cultural and humanitarian costs of ignoring global warming.. 
Hurricanes are fueled by the evapo­ration of warm water, and ocean tem­perature is one of several critical fac­tors influencing the frequency and severity of these cyclonic storms. New computer simulations from the NOAA Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory predict that increased 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 
ocean temperatures consistent with what we expect from global warming will, over time, produce an upward shift in hurricane intensity. The model predicts fewer category 3 and low cat­egory 4 storms, and significantly more storms in the high category 4 through category 5 range. 
In our politically and economically driven naivety, we have been acting under the faulty assumption that any change made to the global climate can be offset by some yet-undiscovered scientific or technological advance­ment, and that until such an achieve­ment is made, we will be able to cope with any negative side-effects pro­duced by the global weather system. But the earth's oceans and atmosphere are not stable heat sinks of unlimited capacity, they are elements of a super­chaotic system that can barely be pre­dicted, let alone controlled. As much as we do know now, we are still only beginning to understand the negative impacts of altering global tempera­tures. 
The realities of the past wi1ek and a half have made us intensely aware of just how fragile our communities are, and just how unprepared the United States is for any large seale natural disaster. Being an isolated event, the intensity of Hurricane Katrina was not, in all likelihood, a product of glob­al warming. However, over the next eentury, the ferocity of this storm will be equaled and surpassed many times by storms that are fueled by global warming. 
We witnessed the devastation of Hurricane Mitch in Central America, and we saw the rage of a tsunami in the Indian Ocean. Now the formerly great city of New Orleans and many adjacent communities have been sav­aged by natural forces, and we have finally tasted some of the death that other nations have known at the hand of nature for years. It is time for us to realize that we are not invincible, and that damage to the world's weather system will hurt the United States as much, if not more, as any other nation. We must understand our own fragility. 
It is true that the economic costs of reducing greenhouse gases enough to slow or reverse the process of global warming are nontrivial. However, these costs pale before the price, in money, in culture and history and in human life, that would have to be paid if the frequency of the most powerful hurricanes were to increase as much as the NOAA simulations predict. 
No one wishes to see another Hurricane Katrina, for-at this moment-we are lucid to the fact that we are not ready to face the worst that nature can throw at us, and per­haps we never will be. Therefore we can no longer condone actions that risk altering the climate of the planet to the degree that storms like Katrina become commonplace. 
We owe this much to the Jiving sur­vivors of Katrina and to the many dead: that we will always respect the forces that struck them; that WP will understand the limits of our own power over nature; and if there is any­thing we can do to pnwent a worsen­ing of these natural disastPrs ­including spending the money neces­sary to curb grennhouse emissions­we will do so. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of Notre Dame. His column appears every other Wendnesday. 1/e can be contact­ed at comments@tidewaterblues. com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Race is an issue 
It's been a while since I've seen so many falsehoods packed in a single letter, as I did when I read Matt Hamilton's Sept. 4 let­ter, "Race on the Levee." Paul Krugman is probably already consulting Hamilton for his next New York Times column. 
Why is it any surprise, when the overwhelming majority of whites, who are disproportionately wealthier than the blacks, left New Orleans, which was 67 percent black before the evacu­ation? How is it not "Third World" to have locals indiscriminate­ly machine-gunning policemen and rescue workers? (It sounds pretty indistinguishable from Mogadishu to me.) Who is Hamilton to complain about the consensus opinion of the locals, who, unlike Hamilton, were actually there when it happened? 
As for pointing fingers, of course two-thirds-black New Orleans' mayor, who is black, had nothing to do with the cleanup fiasco, other than bumping his cronies to the head of the evacuation line. Neither did the New Orleans police chief, who is also black. (Note the highest per-capita murder rate and most corrupt police department in America including Washington, D.C., and less than a quarter of the city's murders resulting in a conviction -before Katrina.) . 
Neither did the Louisiana governor, who is white, and whose decisive votes came in David Duke's most loyal parishes, thanks to a last-minute race-baiting ad against her Indian-American opponent. Luckily for her, though, she's a Democrat. Maybe we need to review the criteria here? We need someone who's white, male, Republican, powerful and preferably rich ... I've got it: "Bush to New Orleans: Drop Dead." Has a nice ring, does­n't it? 
Finally, since Hamilton has no problem with looting, some­body should give me his address. (I'll take care of the U-Haul.) And if he says I'm too rich to deserve everything he's worked for, I'm sure there are plenty ofmeth tweakers and crackheads -er, "dispossessed people" in South Bend who are just as deserving of those household appliances and possessions as Hamilton is. Just think of "the human dignity, the self-govern­ment and the triumph in the face of adversity!" 
I don't mean that all dispossessed people are addicts, just that some are (and thus not necessarily deserving of indiscriminate aid or loot). 
Alex Forshaw freshman Sr. Edward's Hall Sept. 6 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL
Kate Antonacci Kate Gales Katie Perry Tom Dorwart Brian DeSplinter Ryan Kiefer What are you doing Viewpoint Scene 
to help Hurricane 
Alyssa Ram a 

Katrina relief? 
Brauweiler Gottumukkala Graphics Brian Doxtader Kelly MacDonald 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 



;Submit aLetter
:jj • • ' ... • ' 
•0. , ••• ,., •" ., •. N N N .•. •. • 
"The [lrst duty ofa rer;olqtignary
ts to get away wtth tt.


to the Editor at 
Abbie Hoffman radical activist

:~ www.ndsmcobserver.com ;:
~ 
. . . J 

THE OBSERVER 
!



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 7, 2005 page II 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Liberal, examine thyself 
With tho Hobnrts confirmation hearings about to bogin. and another Supreme Court nomination <:oming soon, thorn is most defi­nitely going to be a good amount of debato about prnssing sodal and h~gal issuns, as well as plenty of hysterical scronching. And yns. the l>nnHH:ratk Party will once again show that its corn valun is abortion on demand. 
I hatn to bring up such a loathsome topic-I sinnm~ly do hatn to-hut only the most igno­rant could fail to realize that abortion is the underlying cause of all the controvnrsy rngard­ing tlw Hobnrts nomination, and all that wo arn going to son surrounding his eonlirmation and tho forthcoming nomination. What makes thn controversy mon~ poignant, and morn rele­vant to Notre Dame, is that Hobnrts is Catholic. 
A few weeks ago, Mario Cuomo, former Democratic governor of New York and some­tinw Catholic tlwologian, trotted out his patentnd and tired "personally opposed but ... " argument at an appearance debating the Hobnrts nomination. Brielly stated, that argu­ment is that while he himself is deeply trou­bled by abortion and considers it, as a good Catholic, a tnrrible sin, he cannot impose that bnlief on others. Of course, I highly doubt he, or any of the other Catholic liberals who trot this line out, are in faet quite opposed to the horror that is abortion. But let me be generous and gullible and take him at his word. 
My questions for him, and for any like-mind­nd liberals at Notre Dame, are these: 
I) is your personal opposition to abortion a religious belief simply because it is something thn Church teaches?; 
2) how come so many of you have no prob­lem imposing your other beliefs-such as opposition to the death penalty -on the rest of the public, many if not most of whom dis­agree with them? 
Hngarding the first question, consider anoth­er hideous act: rape. Now, the Church opposes rape, and I oppose rape. Does that mean my opposition to rape is somehow a Catholic belief of mine? Thern are certain teachings of the Church, like cond1~mnations of murder or exploitation, whieh dmtl simply with the natu­ral law. All human beings with reason, Catholic or not, should recognize these moral truths, 
and most societies do. 
Then there are the other moral teachings, such as the command to attend Mass. which only make sense in light of revealed truths. If I prohibit you from murdering my niece, I am not imposing my Catholic values on you, even though the Church would agrne with me. If I forced you to fast on Good Friday, however, I would be guilty of such an imposition. Such a distinction should be very clear. 
I opposed abortion before I was Catholic, and if, God forbid, I cease being Catholic, I imagine I will still oppose abortion. If there is any con­nection at all between my hatred of abortion and my (weak) Catholic faith, it is not that I hate abortion because the Church tells me to. If anything, it is the other way around -my hatred of abortion makes it easier for me to believe that the Church is what it claims to be. 
When people like Mario Cuomo and John Kerry speak of their opposition to abortion as somehow a personal religious belief, I am led to wonder whether they are so morally crip­pled that they would not even realize the evil of it were the Church not to point it out to them. 
Yet as I mentioned already, they are often only too eager to impose other Catholic social doctrines on the public, and even to use reli­gious language in doing so. This, of course is hypocrisy, but nobody ever seems to call them out on it. 
Many of you, when you stand up for the unborn, will have sneering liberals snarl at you and tell you to go back to church, and to put your rosaries away. But when you stand up for the poor, however, those same liberals leave you alone, even congratulate you. Why is defending the unborn somehow a religious value while defending the poor is not? The Church is consistently on the side of both. Maybe one of you liberals can explain that to me and to the rest of us. 
Gregory Pio alumnus class of 1999 Sept. 6 

The fury in all of us 
As popular nnws rnndia thest1 days arn sat­urated with irnagns of' n~fugees fleeing destroyml honws and snrvants providing sol­aen and hope to those afflietnd by natural disaster, om1 must eontmnplate difficult qtwstions. Tlwsn qunries range from tho divine to thn political. I low would a good God permit such sufTnring'? Why was the fed­oral government so tardy in its relief response'! 
After a short time, however, our modern Anwrkan sensibilities prohibit such investi­gation and dnrnand that construetive ener­gins be direetml toward providing aid rather than probing diflkult n~alities. Those who deny "s1~nsible" responses and continue their questioning are eonsiderml irresponsible, insnnsitive and even irreverent. 
Ynt, I believe that at a time like this, national unity and support must mean more than simply sending cheeks and resources to folks that need them. While that activity is paramount and eannot be ignored, assis­tance in a time of crisis often demands that loaders lend their voices to the troubling truths that lay beneath the rubble. 
While cursory television coverage chooses to focus narrowly on the malevolent behav­ior of a few, harsh societal facts go unno­ticed. Why it is that much timidity surrounds the assertion that most of the refugee popu­lation afTected is not only African-American but also low-income'! Is thorn something fundamentally wrong about making this claim? Such a statement would be irrelevant if its emphasis was solely descriptive. 
Unfortunately, however, a daim of this magnitude pom1trates a substantive truth about the reality of race relations in the United States, and inner cities in particular. Do you know, for example, that dose to one­third of New Orleans lives below the poverty line'? II' I were to tell you that 93 percent of the students at schools in the city are African-American, what would you think? Does it trouble you that residents living up­river on higher ground tended to survive the flooding while those living down-river in shoddy housing units tended to succumb to the water's fury'? Would it be unreasonable to add that the former demographic was largely middle-income and white, while the latter was mostly lower-income and black? 
lleflect and permit the anger of these truths to motivate your actions in a positive way. 
If popular news is going to continue to cheapen its coverage of this disaster through narrowly framed images and rigidly cen­sored programs (Kanye West was silenced, by the way, for his assertion on NBC's vic­tims' tribute program that President Bush does not care about blacks), then our collec­
, tive responsibility as· citizens is to reflect on this tragedy in a more honest, constructive way. · Many will construe my words as politiciza­tion of a non-political issue; know that we are the first to say that concern for the vic­tims, regardless of wealth and color, should be primary. Our concern should always moti­vate our positive actions for those who suf­fer, and I think that it is operating right now. 
Paul Kralovec senior off-campus Sept. 6 
Ban the 
smoking ban 
Following a disturbing trend among local governments. the St. Joseph County Council is considering a proposed ban on smoking in "public places"­namely private establishments such as restaurants and bars. Not only is this type ol' legisla­tion misguided, we believe it exemplifies the worst of petty dictatorships that are currently slithering across the United States. 
The argument that banning smoking saves lives is mislead­ing. In 2004, over 42,000 people died from driving on American highways. Every two hours, a person is killed by lire. However, we have yet to hear of any local government initiatives to ban either driving or fire. This is true because such initia­tives would be absurd, and the proposed smoking ban is no dif­ferent. 
The issue is not a health issue. It is an issue of the gov­ernment vs. the property rights of business owners. 
Smoking is a personal choice; it is true that second-hand smoke can have negative efTects on people who are continually exposed for long periods of time. From that same reasoning, how­ever, working in a bar or restau­rant that allows smoking is also a personal choice. In fact, despite what the St. Joseph County Council would have us believe. there are over 130 local restaurants that have already opted to be "smoke-free." These restaurants, easily found online in the "llnalthy Community Smoke-FnH\ Dining Cuide," have freely clwsnn to disallow tobacco smoke without the conrdon of an overzealous County Couneil. 
The authority to ban unhealthy behavior on private property is a dangerous pownr to grant any govnrnnwnt, espn­cially a local govnrmm~nt. First, smoking is illegal in bars. Next. it is illegal in parks-outside. Soon. police may bn knocking on our doors to make sure we do not smoke at all. Is that thn future we want for Arnnriea? 
Contrary to popular belief, there are alternative methods of encouraging smoke-free estab­lishments. Offering incentives, such as tax breaks or a stream­lined licensing process. is a viable option that is more con­ducive to promoting smoke-frne businesses while simultaneously preserving the libnrties of busi­ness owners. Reducing restric­tive bureaucracy and lowering tax barriers would encourage major economic development in the area, which in turn would lead to more jobs and opportu­nities -in short, a healthier community. 
Therefore, we the undersigned believe that the people of St. Joseph County and members of the St. Joseph County Council should oppose this legislation. St. Joseph County needs more eco­nomic growth, not more laws. 
College Libertarians University of Notre Dame Sept. 6 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
#cwe~~J4~~... ItTHe Fl~~ ~TINk~ fRoM T~e HeAD DoWN'' 

---~~­

THE OBSERVER 


CENE 

page 12 
DVD REVIEW 

Second season of the O.C. captures California dream 
By LIZ BYRUM A<sistant Scene Editor 
Common rooms in dorms· all around 
campus will be full tomorrow night as 
the new season of "The O.C." kicks 
off, but for some students, the "O.C." 
parties started a couple of weeks ago __ on Aug. 23, to be exact. 
That was the day the DVD for sea­
son two of "The O.C." was released, 
the day fans were huddled around 
their TVs discussing whether they 
should start at the beginning or flip 
right to their favorite episodes. 
In its first season, "The O.C." intro­
duced the characters, and welcomed 
fans into their soap-opera world. 
However, it was during season two 
when fans really became a part of 
that world. They saw different sides 
of the characters emerge, relation­
ships deVf~lop and fall apart and more 
complex storylines unfold. They hung 
on the edge of their seats each 
Thursday, waiting to see the preview 
for next week's episode. 
Whether they love or hate them, the 
connections fans made with the char­
acters on the show during the second 
season are part of what makes "The 
O.C." such a popular show. The con­
nections might be purely physical, like 
ever evolving debate between guys 
about who is hotter -Marissa, 
Summer, or maybe even Kirsten. 
For some fans, the obsession may go 
a little deeper. On any given Friday, 
someone walking around campus is 
bound to hear girls discussing the 
perfection that is Seth Cohen, and 
what off the wall comment he made 
on last night's episode. 
No matter what it is about the show 
that draws people in, it's safe to say 
they're hooked and can't seem to get 
enough. With Season two out on DVD, 
fans can now get their "O.C." fix any 
time, any day. 
The relationships during the second 
season explain a lot about "The O.C." 
There were love triangles that 
revolved around comic books, bjsexu­
als and a possible pregnancy. Affairs 
were commonplace among the "adult 
figures" in Newport Beach, and even 
the strongest relationships were put 
to the test. However, throughout all of 
the drama, the characters still gave 
the audience things to smile about. 
The episode titled "The 
Chrismukkah That Almost Wasn't" 
showed that almost everyone in 
Orange County has a 
little heart. Through­
out the season, Ryan 
tried hard to show his 
heart when his older 
brother, Trey, came 
back into his life. But 
no matter what he did, 
Trey kept messing up, 
which made for a 
great cliff-hanger end­
ing for season two. 
Although some of the show's principal cast may not be on their way to winning Oscars, there was an obvious improvement in acting ability and experience during season two. Ben McKenzie (Ryan) and Adam Brody (Seth) continued to build the character friendship that was the original platform for the show. Kelly Rowan also rose to the challenge of turning her character, Kirsten, into a struggling alcoholic in the second half of the season. 

One of the best parts of season two was the amazing musicians that were recruited to appear in various episodes. Bands such as The Walkmen (who played at Notre Dame last year), Death Cab for Cutie and Modest Mouse played shows at the Bait Shop, the beachside music hotspot, and received tons of amazing publicity while they were at it. 
The extensive season two DVD set features plenty of great special fea­tures, including one section called "O.C. -Obsess Completely," fans can get an inside look at some of the musicians "The O.C." has hosted. The section also shows great in-depth interviews with the cast, as well as the producer of the show, Josh Schwartz. 
Another section of special features, titled "Gags and Goofs," begins with an interesting black and white piece showcasing many of the "kissing scenes" filmed through out season two. This doesn't seem to be some­thing fans would expect to find on the DVD, but adds a nice touch to the compilation. 
"Beachy Couture," the final section of the special features, gives an inside look on the fashion world of "The O.C." People who watch the show and play close attention to what each character is wearing will love to learn how the wardrobe designers choose what they do for each scene. In this section, Adam Brody explains how he is "just trying to get away with stuff that's not lame." It seems like he may be on the same designer wavelength as his character. 
The season two DVD is every O.C. fan's "California dream," with plenty of great special features to keep enthusiasts busy. With enough episodes, affairs, scandals and heart­breaks to keep someone occupied for days, it's a great addition to any pop-culture collection. · 
Contact Liz Byrum at lbyrum@nd.edu · 
THE o.c. 101: A DIP IN ORANGE COUNTY'S POOL 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Editor 
It's amazing how a five-note melody can halt the bustling activity of LaFortune, if only for a moment. 
When the lively piano chorus of Phantom Planet's "California" blares through the big-sereen televisions, students break out of their studying trances and either smile, hum along gleefully or roll their eyes with frustration. For the naysayers in that lat­ter camp, it's going to be a long, grating couple of months. 
With the season three· premiere of "The O.C." less than 48 hours away, expect to hear the "California" refrain routinely. Still, it's never too late to take a dip in the Orange County pool. As the campus' O.C.­obsessed fanatics settle back into the world navigated by Ryan, Seth, Summer and Marissa, O.C. first-timers still have a chance to join the reveling. With the first and second seasons of the show readily available on DVD, the zany misadventures of Orange Country are only a couch away. 
In the meantime, there are plenty of rea­sons why "The O.C." steals away hearts and oh so many hours of procious studying time on this campus. 
OK, so the show's principal cast of color­ful characters didn't start off as the most original troupe in television history. But it has made plenty of strides in fleshing out once one-dimensional archetypes and grabbing a vice grip on the attention spans of its viewers. 
Throwing in a fair sprinkling or mar­riages, divorces and heart -attacks helps jumble the interwoven plot points into a highly addictive potpourri. 
But the heart of the show lies with its other young protagonist, Seth Cohen (Adam Brody). A comic-book geek, Seth divides his time between spouting off pop­culture quips and chasing after his life's mission: roping in Summer (Rachel Bilson), the girl of his dreams. He alterna­tively succeeds and fails at this exercise over the course of the show's seasons, alternatively leading to a chorus of cheers and catcalls from fans. Plus it's a joy hear­ing Seth banter back and forth with Hyan in true brotherly fashion, complete with quick witticisms. 
Sandy Cohen (Peter Gallagher), Seth's dad, is another gem in the television land­scape of primetime dramas. A public attorney and all-around good guy, Sandy's character lends a carefully balanced dynamic to a show that constantly goes off the deep end with Seth and Ryan's misad­ventures. Watching him deal with his wife Kirsten's growing alcoholism problem dur­ing season two firmly tugs at the heart­strings. There's certainly a reason why Sandy was ranked 25 in TV Guide's 2004 list of the "50 Greatest TV Dads of All Time" (which is no small feat considering the relative youth of the show). 
Any plot device used on "The O.C." would easily last half a season (or more) on any other show. No matter how con­trived they seem, such as Marissa's infa­mous lesbian fling from season two, plot devices in "The O.C." rarely last more than four episodes. 
This ends up being both a blessing and a curse. Disappointing and cringe-worthy plot devices are swept under the carpet quickly. There was probably dancing in the streets from the O.C. fan nation when Oliver, a deranged Marissa stalker, was swept away in fewer than six episodes. 
The show's music scene is almost uni­versally praised as one of the best on tele­vision. Whether it's snagging a new song off Coldplay's latest album weeks before its release or helping boost small indie bands into the national spotlight, "The O.C." sets musical trends long before the average radio station. Plus, it's helped the show's producers release four soundtracks high­lighting the show's musical prowess. 
When "The O.C." premieres Thursday night at 7 p.m., there will probably be plenty of alert, captivated faces around campus. With an open mind, it'll probably only take a few days for an O.C. late-comer to fall in love with sunny Orange County. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at 
rgottumu@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of theocimages.com 

Marissa (Mischa Barton), left, Summer (Rachel Bilson), Seth (Adam Brody) and Ryan (Ben McKenzie) form the young nucleus of the popular Fox drama. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE

Wednesday, September 7, 2005 page 13 

By MOLLY GRIFFIN As~istant Scene Editor 
"Tiw O.C.," whiln wholly unrealistic in its shPnr dngree of scandal. may just he tho pnrfect 11scapo from the stress and studying of college. The diff'i('ully of halaneing life at school SPPms lnss snrious wlwn you s<w that .tuliP Coopnr is bning blar.kmailed with a secrnl. pom tapn from her past, Hyan's nx-con hrollwr Trny is involved in a drug dPal and Kirsten's drinking prohiPm is spiraling out of control. "Thn O.C." managns to blend sensa­tionalism with thn right <kgron of sen­sitivity and humor, and this mixturn is l'ausing a stir around eollngn eampus­ns nvnry Thursday night.. 
Whiln llw show supposedly I'O<~usns on JH'opln in high school, thn potnnt ('omhination of snx, scandal and l'rinndship has lwlpnd it transcnnd thn traditional boundaries of age to lind a hug<• spectrum of collegiate fans. Tlw advnnturPs of tlw Cohnn-Coopor­Ni<'hols dan arn in no way realistic. but. that may just lw tho rnason why llw show is so sue<~nssful. 
"O.C." partins are a <'.ornmon oceur­n•ru~n on ('ampus nvnry Thursday at 7 
p.m. Whdlwr the parties consist of diP-hard fans, JHHlpln looking for a rnason to socialize or studnnts des­pPrate for a study hrnak. llw show is qui('kly lwcoming an almost. mandato­ry wnnkly <wnnt. 
"You don't havn to think whnn you wat('h it." junior Til'f'anie Spnncer nxplairu•d. "It.'s vnry obvious, but it's drama that's vnry intnrnsting." 
'J'hl' show, whiln )wavily a favorite among f<'malns, has a ~rong rnaln fol­lowing that. isn't just watching to snn Mischa Barton in a mini skirt. It is not uncommon to snn large groups of' mall's gat lwrl'd t.ogntlwr on Thursday nights in <~ommon rooms around cam­pus. 
SP<~ond year law student Stove l>uwrnay dnscrihed his ritual. 
''I'm a purist, no distraetions," he said. "Usually it's just a eouple of' us in someone's living room absorbing the greatness that is 'The O.C."' 
t\s is the ease with most massively popular shows on television, a drink­ing game has evolved around the pro­gram. Things like a person wearing a bikini at a party, the appearance of a luxury ear, eharacters getting in a light or wearing a very short skirt are alljustilications for taking a drink. 
There are several groups on the faenbook Web site at Notre Dame devoted to "The O.C.," such as "If You Talk During 'The O.C.,' I Will Kill You at the Next Commercial" and "Seth Cohen is the Man." There are also s11vnral groups devoted to disliking tho show as w11ll, including tho "Anti­'Tho O.C.' club" and "llf1lp. My Name is ___ and All of My Friends are Obsessnd with 'Tho O.C."' 
Some sehools have taken the show to a new lnvel, as "The 
"The O.C." has had on pop eulture and college students in particular is· with regard to its soundtrack choiees. Music is featured prominently on the show, and it makes a point of using songs from bands that rarely get radio play. 
The show has used musie from a wide variety or underground bands such as the Dandy Warhols, the Super Furry Animals, Hilo Kiley, Bell X1, Jem, Eels and Beck. The Bellingham, Wash. hand Death Cab for Cutin, a favorite of Seth Cohen (as well as his portrayer, Adam Brody), has rnceiv<1d a huge boost in popularity due to the show and even performed in various episodes during the show's second season. 
A few bands have even gono beyond merely bning background music and havn performed on the show, includ­ing Hooney, Modest Mouse, the Thrills and the Walkmen. 
The show has become 
O.C" watching club at the such a major launching
"You don't have to
Boalt Law School at UC pad for music that even Borkl<1y reveals. They think when you established groups like created "The Sandy watch it. It's very Cold play and tho Coh11n F111Iowship," a Beastin Boys have gone
obvious but it's 
scholarship in honor or so far as to use the
drama that's very 
the fa<~t that fictional show to premiere songs character Sandy Cohen, interesting. " from their latest played by Peter albums. Gallagher, supposedly "While 'The O.C.' isn't
Tiffanie Spencer 
att<mdnd the law school. exactly deep or compli­
junior
Donations can be made at eatnd, that might be 
h ttp://oe. boalt.org/. 

The show started out with the unfa­vorable distinction of debuting as midsummer programming -whleh usually doesn't last through the fall snason -on FOX as well as bning the first show ever written or pmdueed by creator Josh Sehwartz. Not only did it surpass all nxpoctations, but it b11canw enough of a cultural presenen to take over magazine covers, ereate fashion trends and garner the eurrent scion of "it"-ness, Paris Hilton, for a cameo in tho first season 
One of the major influences that 
just the reason that col­lege students enjoy it," Duverney said. "There's the eomhined element of fan­tasy and schadenfreude, which I think is a key element to the show's sue­cess." 
Sometimes between the ealculus homework. reading entire novels and cramming for tests, everyone just nneds an hour-long trip to the loss aeademie and more molodramatie world of Orange County. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 


Sandy Cohen The liberal, east-coast lawyer with formidable eyebrows stands out among the Orange Country crowd. Sandy Cohen works to save kids as a public defender, must deal with his slighdy unhinged family and yet still manages to get in a few hours of surfmg between cases and crises. 
Kirsten Cohen The matriarch of the Cohen clan, Kirsten has to deal with a variety of family problems, from her wild sister Haley to her hard-nosed father Caleb. She is usually the rock of the family, but she also has a tendency to be a workaholic and has a penchant for l\1erlot that gets out of control and leads to stronger drinks such as straight vodka. 
Ryan Atwood Mter stealing a car with his brother, Ryan avoids juvenile hall by being taken in by Sandy Cohen and his family. He must adjust from being from the wrong side of the tracks in Chino to the vasdy wealthy world of Orange County. 
Marissa Cooner Rich, beautiful and incredibly messed up, Marissa somehow manages to be the perfect high school student while at the same time being a delinquent who. almost dies in Tijuana, steals from department stores and drinks in the bathroom. 
Seth Cohen An inspiration to geeks everywhere, Seth is a skinny, ind.ie music loving comic book fan and somehow manages not only to get extremely attractive girls like Summer and Anna to like him but to actually fight over him. 
Julie Cooper Call her "The Dragon Lady'' or "The Wicked Witch of the West Coast" but few characters can pull off having affairs with their daughter's ex-boyfriends, having .porn tapes in their past or have catfights at their bachelorette parties quite as fabulously as Julie Cooper. 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, September 7, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Inspiring 'Murderball' aims at the heart 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Critic 
It's rare today to find a film that can both jar the mind and stir the spirit. In a summer that gave the American pub­lic both the "Deuce Bigalow" sequel and the mind-numbing "Stealth," a film as gritty and satisfying as "Murderball" is running .......:. or rolling, rather -against the grain. 
The documentary, directed by Henry Alex Rubin and Dana Adam Shapiro, showcases the sport of quadriplegic rugby, affectionately nicknamed "mur­derball" by its devoted players for the fierce intensity with which the game is played. Equipped with specially built wheelchairs that look like they were welded by a cross 
paraplegics. These interviews are spot­ted throughout the movie, giving people a glimpse into the live·s of men forever changed by a car accident or a wrestling match gone wrong. Getting to know the players lends the film a hard­earned human side that is skillfully bal­anced with the gruff nature of the sport itself. 
Overall, the movie tracks the American team as they progress from the world championship in Sweden to the 2004 Paralympic Games in Athens, Greece. On another level, however, is the real story -the battle between the teams from the United States and Canada, which centers on one man: Joe Soares. 
Eight years prior, Joe sat at the top of the .quad rugby world, leading the American team to 
between the "Am­victory in the
Murderball
erican Chopper" 
1996 Games. crew and a demoli­Following a messy tion derby expert, battle with the two teams zoom, American coach­throw and check es, however, Joe
Directors: Henry Alex Rubin and
their way across a and his bruised
Dana Adam Shapiro
regulation basket­ego made a deal
Starring: Scott Hogsett, Bob Lujano, 
ball court in a four­to coach the Can­
Scott Hogsett and Joe Soares 
period match. adian national 
Power is ultimate­ly the name of the game, however, as a full-on smash between players is all but encouraged to be victorious. 
The film opens with a series of short interviews with members of the U.S. national quad rugby team, captioned by name only -Hogsett, Andy, Zupan ­and describing how they came to be 
team, beginning a rivalry which has reached full blast by the time the film opens. 
Joe is loud, abrasive, and mesmeriz­ing -when he's on the screen, the audience is drawn to his explosive tem­per and blazing stare, just to see what he'll do next. It takes a heart attack halfway through the film to loosen Joe up, but it is the intensity and drive of Joe and the respective teams that hall­marks the cutthroat competition, and draws the viewer in. 

Where the film really shines, howev­er, is in the smaller moments that address what life is like when some­one's limbs are nearly useless. Listening to Bob Lujano describe a dream in which he's flying, limbs intact or watching goateed team leader Mark Zupan bring murderball lessons to a local hospital's newly disabled, hits the heart in a quiet but affecting way. 
The film is definitely not humorless, however: one sequence involving a sex­ed video for paraplegics is particularly memorable. It's the revelation of the tough ordinariness of the players' lives, as well as their athletic strengths, which blows the mind of the audience, destroying any preconceptions. 
Guilt, bitterness, reconciliation, power, strength, anger and love: all are expressed in the faces and lives of these unknowing titans on wheels, and the result is one amazing way to spend 85 minutes. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
Documenting the dirtiest joke in 'The Aristocrats' 
By ERIN MCGINN Scene Critic 
"The Aristocrats" is one of the funni­est movies of the year, which is no small feat considering that it is little more than a documentary about a sin­gle joke. Penn Jillette (of Penn and Teller) and Paul Provenza's film is the filmic equivalent of a one-trick pony, but the trick itself is entertaining enough to carry through its 89 min­utes. "The Aristocrats" is obscene and offensive, but the joke itself (and those telling it) is funny enough to overcome its perverse single-mindedness. More than anything, "The Aristocrats" is hilarious. 
"A man walks into a talent agent's office with his 
hearted or those with weak stomachs. 
The joke, originally from old bur­lesque shows, is known as being the most coarsely perverse ever per­formed, and traditionally is told only amongst comedians. While giving away the joke would ruin some of the film's impact, the variations that accompany it are diverse enough that it remains fresh, vile, and funny some hundred years after it was first told. 
For those able to withstand the joke, which in its most tame version contains references to incest, bestiality, necrophilia and bodily fluids, the movie is uproarious. Paul Provenza and Penn Jillette spent two years documenting as many versions of this infamous joke as possible, cornering comedians like Drew Carey, Whoopi Goldberg, Susie 
Essman and Paul 
family and says, Reiser whenever
The Aristocrats
'Have I got an act and wherever for you!' The tal­
possible. ent agent replies, Other note-wor­'So what do you thy comedians do?'" So begins include Drew Director: Paul Provenza 
"The Aristocrats," Carey, Andy Dick,
Starring: Jason Alexander, Hank Azaria,
a film that do.cu­Carrie Fisher,
George Carlin, Drew Carey, Whoopi
ments a joke that Whoopi Goldberg, 
Goldberg, Trey Parker and Bob Saget
has been handed Gilbert Gottfried, 
down from come­dian to comedian since the days of the old burlesque shows, but is rarely told on stage and is traditionally told only amongst comedians. The next part of the joke varies, allowing for improvisa­tion, and the only requirement in telling the joke is that it be as offensive as possible. 
There is no nudity and there is no violence, but Jillette and Paul Provenza managed to create a documentary vul­gar enough to not be rated. "The Aristocrats," features numerous come­dians performing and analyzing the same joke, but is not for the light-
Chris Rock, Sarah Silverman, Jon Stewart and dozens of others. Seeing Bob Saget, who refer­ences his role on "Full House," perform the joke is reason alone to see the movie. The results are surprising, and often take their humor to places that may make sensitive viewers uncomfort­able. · 
Far more than just a re-telling of a joke, "The Aristocrats" traces its histo­ry and tries to answer the question of why such an obscene joke is undeni­ably funny. By exploring the origin and path of the joke, the filmmakers side­step the potential for cinematic .stale-

ness. This segment is fascinating, as it explores how a joke changes (or largely stays the same) over the years. 
Since the film is such a focused docu­mentary, the normal criteria of review are, for all intents and purposes, dis­pensable. The movie is essentially about comedians entertaining other comedians without regard to the more sensitive public, which is pointed out in the film itself. Some of the comedians, such as Chevy Chase, actually held par­ties of which the only purpose was to tell the joke, where one single telling lasted for nearly an hour and a half. 
Trey Parker and Matt Stone, the cre­ators of "South Park," even created an animated segment featuring the show's characters specially for this movie. 
"The Aristocrats" is simply one of the best and funniest movies of the year. For all its obscenity, it is a pointed and effective documentary about the nature of the "dirty joke" as told by comedians throughout the year. For those who can withstand its vulgarity, "The Aristocrats" is highly recommended. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
• 
Wednesday September 7, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 7, 2005 
HURRICANE KATRINA 
Tulane athletes to 'carry torch' 
Wherever its home, Green Wave plans to keep playing, give hope 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Tulane athletic teams displaced from their New OrLeans campus by Hurricane Katrina will be based this fall at five different universities. 
The Green Wave student­athletes will live and attend classes at schools in Texas and Louisiana. The teams will stay together and play under the Tulane banner. 
"Our community needs hope," athletic director Rick Dickson said Tuesday. "Our student-athletes represent hope for them. 
"They will carry the torch and be the face, and display the name of Tulane University and the New Orleans commu­nity until we are able to come home and do that on our own campus." 
Still, Dickson said the initial objective was to provide edu­cation, housing and meals to 243 athletes. 
"Then, we'll put the logistics of the athletic p\ece together next," he said. 
Tulane's football team, which own." has been working out at SMU Byrne, Rice athletic director in Dallas, is moving later this Bobby May and Texas Tech AD week to Louisiana Tech in Gerald Myers said their Huston, about 230 miles north schools were prepared to host of New Orleans. the teams as long as needed. 
The players will enroll in They also could accommodate elasses there that begin next Tulane teams playing home week. games on their campuses, the 
The men's basketball team, three said during the call. along with the volleyball, Most of the Tulane athletes swimming and diving and would be enrolled at the women's soccer teams, will be schools Tuesday or at Texas A&M. Wednesday, Dickson said. 
The women's basketball The only Tulane team that team and the baseball team won't take part in its sched­will go to Texas Tech. Rice will uled season this fall is cross host the tennis teams, and country. SMU will be the temporary Men's and women's track home for the golf teams. don't compete until the spring 
"We wanted to do what we semester. could to help," Texas A&M Tulane's season-opening athletic director Bill Byrne told football game at Southern Dickson during a conference Mississippi, which also was call Tuesday. "We'll treat your affected by the storm, was athletes just like they were our postponed until after 
•

but WillS 
Top seed beats Kiefer, advances to quarter­finals of tourney 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Roger Federer sneered, tossed his racket in disgust. Horror of horrors, he lost a set. 
For most of the U.S. Open, the defending champion and top seed had seemed to sleepwalk through his matches, playing only as well as necessary, wak­ing up and painting lines when pressed. He made up shots as he went along -a sprinkling of aces at various speeds and angles, a backhand pass that got him out of trouble, a volley that carne out of nowhere between yawns. 
That was enough until he got into a little trouble against Nicolas Kiefer on Tuesday. Suddenly Federer had a reason to elevate his game and stir some emotion. Now he swept in toward the net, pounded win­ners from the baseline, stopped wasting time and efTort. 
Under just the hint of pres­sure, Federer produced his best tennis of the tournament to beat Kiefer 6-4, 6-7 (3), 6-3, 6-4 and land safely in the quarterfi­nals. Match point was a master­ful final stroke -an inside-out forehand crosscourt that Federer tucked neatly in the corner, far from Kiefer's reach. 
"Federer's play, for him, is like a B, B-plus, which for any­one else is an A-plus," former champion John McEnroe said after leaving the broadcast booth. "For him, he hasn't real­ly played as well as he's capable of. He's been unsettled a couple of times. Today was one of those matches. Sometimes you don't play your best, but the real champions win when they're not playing their real best." 
•



agatn 
The 24-year-old Federer lost only one set on the way to his third Wimbledon title two months ago, and that also was against Kiefer, who gives him tough matches but can't quite win. Federer has beaten the German six straight times, four of them this year. 
After losing the second-set tiebreaker when he netted a backhand half-volley, Federer found himself in difficulty at 3-3 in the third when he faced dou­ble break point at 15-40. His answer: a 120 mph service win­ner to save one break point, a brilliant backhand erosscourt pass to save another. Kiefer made two errors after that and his opportunity was gone. 
"That game was huge, absolutely," Federer said. "I was not so happy the way I was playing, especially in the second set. Third was getting better, especially after that pass. I really felt that shift in momen­tum. I took advantage of that. In the fourth set, I started to feel like I'm really in control again where I didn't feel that way at all before. I had the feel­ing actually momentum was all on his side." 
Like an artist standing back to admire his work, Federer watched a replay on the giant screen of the backhand pass that saved break point. 
"I knew the moment I hit it that the ball is going to be in," he said. "I knew that he's not going to be there, and I knew that I'm back in the game, back in the match. I knew the impor­tance of that shot. It was impor­tant from then to hold and not let it slip away. So I did well there." 
As dominant as Federer has been on grass the past few years, he's no less the ruler of hard courts. 
He's won 32 straight matches on the surface and is 42-1 on it this year. 

Thanksgiving. 
The Green Wave's first game is Sept. 17, a home game against Mississippi State that was supposed to be played in the Superdome. 
Dickson said he wasn't sure where the game would be played. 
"Our preference is to first identify a home-away-from­home venue for our football team," Dickson said. "The pos­sibilities, there are more than a handful right now. 
"We haven't weighed in on any of them at this point, and we ~aven't ruled any of them out. 
Among the possibilities are playing on the Louisiana Tech campus or at Independence Stadium in Shreveport, La. Louisiana Tech and Tulane share three common home dates, all in October. 
U.S. OPEN 


Federer struggles, 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early and Save Lowest Prices Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 
Highest Commission Best Travel Perks www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800·426· 771 0 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES needed for south side elementary school local· ed near Erskine Golf Course on Miami St.$35 per soccer game. Call574-291·4200. 
2 season tix & parking pass or 2 for any home game. 574-276-8507. 
LOVE KIDS? Professional Mom needs help picking up children at school and taking them to activities 
between 3:00·6:00p.m. Monday-Friday. Great kids-daughters ages 12-15. Schools and home close to NO and SMC. 
Call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013. 
Local family looking for part-time babysitter for 2 toddlers. Must love children! References required. 
Experience a must. Transportation necessary. Call574·247-9213. 
Tutor(s) needed for Algebra, Discrete Math & other subjects at my house. Now-May 2006. Prefer Junior or Senior w/strong Math skills. 
Can show you how to tutor other subjects. Email or call for more detailed info. Linda 272·8235, lwaelchli@dat­acruz.com 
BABYSITIER·ND home game days/Other days & nights too. Car rqrd. Call Laura 243-4776. 
FoR SALE 
Brand new full mattress & box. Still in plastic. $120. Can deliver. 574·876·4474. 
Queen pillowtop mattress set. New with warranty. $155. Can· deliver. 574-231-4522. 
Great Sunnymede area home. Details on line: TIMSHOUS· ESALE.BLOGSPOT.COM 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes. 2-8 bedroom, weekend rentals, furnished, alumni owned. 
You design lease. Call250-7653. 
2 bedroom home within 1.5 miles of campus. 
Partially furnished with extra room, washer/dryer, and kitchen appli· ances. $750/month. 
Call574-250-8552. 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES 
Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for 24 
Quality Bed and Breakfast 
Accommodations. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
GOOD HOUSES IN GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS: andersonNDrentals.com or (574)233·9947. 
01 alum looking to rent out Turtle Creek townhouse Michigan St. weekend (9/16 &17) · 
$500 for weekend plus full maid cleanup on Sunday, negotiable. 
Call Rob (415) 845-5445 if interest­ed. 
TICKETS 

WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. 
289·9280 

OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$: www. victorytickets.com 
BUYING & SELLING NO FOOTBALL TIX. 
CHECK MY PRICES. 
273-3911. 

WANTED: 4-6 MSU 
GAs together, Dave 248-760-1767 
I would like to purchase your Notre Dame football tickets. 57 4-289-8048. 
BUY SELL OR TRADE 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID. A.M. 232-2378 
P.M.· 288-2726 PLEASE HELP!!! Buying season tix 

GAs only or any game GAs. Call Mark 277-1659. Will trade my 2 USC tix for 2 MSU. Email BAUMMYMP@AOL.COM 
Need USC tickets. Can trade 2 Tenn tix or buy. Call Bill @856-968·4565/ 856·404·1970 

FOR SALE: 2 Greenday tix in Indy on 9/12. 
Great seats.$150 obo pair. John 1·269·683-4288. Current Senior needs MSU tickets for family tailgater, willing to 
buy/trade (have tickets to all other games). 
Contact Kevin Green at kgreen@nd.edu or (281 )635·8346. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. 
For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
GO IRISH!! BEAT MICHIGAN I! 
Do you want to fight? 
Menos de Ires 
I'm nobody's lackey. 
Freshman retreat leader from Alumni: 'What is the worst insult you have heard about Zahm?" 
Fr. Dan: "That we are Alumni." 
Dillon won the cidar cup. 
Dillon has a big, red light saber. Morrisey stole the light saber, but Big Red freshmen retrieved it. 
We have the palm tree. 
Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm. 
GLEASON!! GLEASON!! 

Wednesday, September 7, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 


Coroner: Herrion showed evidence of heart trouble 
Official declares cause ofdeath for late 49ers offensive lineman 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLAHA, Calif. -San Francisco 49ers offensive line­man Thomas I lerrion had heart disease and evidence of previ­ous !wart trouble when he eol­lapsod and died aftm a pn~sea­son game last month, an ollieial in the Denver County coroner's ollice said Tuesday. 


The coroner's findings con­firmed the beliefs of Herrion's family and friends, who were certain drugs played no role in Ilerrion's death Aug. 20. Ilerrion's heart condition was caused by factors that are often nearly undetectable, though fairly rare in a 23-year-old ath­lete in good physical condition. 
"It really squashes all the speculation regarding his death," said Frederick Lyles, 
Herrion 's agent. "They appear to be very thorough in their analysis. Hopefully, now people really get off the idea that these guys are overweight, or that drugs or steroids were involved in any way." 
llerrion had ischemic heart disease, with significant block­age in his right coronary artery that caused the death of heart muscl~. according to Amy Martin, a forensic pathologist and deputy coroner in Denver. llerrion's heart was slightly 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, Fran~e 
"Should I stay, or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
Wednesday, September 7, 2005 7:30PM 118 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 Academic Year 2006-2007 Fall 2006 -Spring 2007 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
enlarged, a condition that could be related to anything from heart disease and high blood pressure to heredity. 
Martin also said the autopsy revealed scar tissue from a recent episode in which blood was restricted to his heart ­but Herrion probably didn't even realize it. 
"From the time that he died, something happened a week or so earlier," said Martin, who found microscopic evidence of organizing heart necrosis. 
"Whether he was aware of that was not clear. There are a lot of instances where people have heart attacks and are not aware of them, especially when your jobs requires you to do things that require you to get hurt. He may not have thought much about it." 
Herrion weighed about 335 pounds at the time of his death, Martin said. The 6-foot-:3 ath­lete was roughly comparable in 
size to dozens of NFL linemen ­and the 49ers believe Herrion 's cardiovascular fitness was out­standing. 
Drug screens on Herrion 's blood and urine found only atrophine, a drug adminis­tered when med­
ical personnel
tried to revive him. There's no indication 
"Thomas passed all n't available to the tests at the reporters 
Tuesday.

beginning of the 
llerrion repeat­

year, and that's edly passed all what makes this tests with the 
49ers, the elub

a shock to 
said earlier. 

everybody." 
"Our medieal experts have not had an opportuni­

Eric Heitmann 
ty to review the

49ers offensive lineman 
Herrion's enlarged heart was caused by high bloo_d pressure, Martin said. 
Lyles spoke to Herrion's moth­er after the report was released. 
"She's having some roller­coaster days," Lyles said. "She was really happy with the out­come. She's just trying to get some closure, and this will help." 
The ebullient lineman, a favorite among his teammates, was on the field for San Francisco's final touchdown drive in a 26-21 loss to Denver, playing exceptionally well and joking with team staff members after it was over. 
Players had just finished rncit­ing the Lord's Prayer in tho locker room after the game when Herrion collapsed. Though team doctors and medics immediately reaehed the· lineman and took him to thn hospital, he couldn't bn saved. 
''I'm definitely shocknd and surprised that someone so young and also in such good shapn as Thomas Ilerrion eould have a heart attaek," said 49ers offensive lineman Erie Heitmann, one of Herrion's friends. "Thomas passed all thn tests at the beginning of the year, and that's what makes this. a shock to everybody." 
All NFL players reeeive com­plete medical exams from their elub, ineluding evaluation of their cardiovascular systems, EKG tests, blood tests and chest X-rays, aceording to the league's collective bargaining agreement. Stress tests arn given at the discretion or the clubs' physicians, though thn 49crs' medical stan· was­
report," NFL 
spokesman Greg 

Aiello said. "But based on what we know so far, this may be a ease of an unfor­tunate hereditary eondition that is not easily deteeted, even by the regular and thorough car­diac sereening used by NFL clubs. Unfortunately, even young people ean be struck without warning by a heart attack." 
Herrion, a seeond-year pro who grew up in Fort Worth, Texas, played two suecessful college seasons at Utah. lle spent part of last season on the San Francisco and Dallas prac­tice squads and also played this spring with the Hamburg Sea Dogs of NFL Europe. 
Summer Internships in Mexico Notre Dame -Universidad de Guadalajara USAID Program for Small Agricultural Producers 
What: Team Presentations of Summer 2005 projects (with reception to follow) Why: Opportunity for ND students to work with Mexican students in agribusiness projects When: Thursday, September 7th &8th, 3:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. Where: C-1 03 Hesburgh Center 






Writefor Sports. 
Call Mike at 1-4543. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 7, 2005 
MLB 

Bonds endures tough workout, hopes to return 
I I I I I I I I" I I 
Coaches, teammates agree the slugger looks impressive 
Associated Press LOS ANGELES -Barry Bonds put in a rigorous work­out Tuesday, but the San Francisco Giants slugger was not activated off the disabled list. Bonds was on the Dodger Stadium field well before his teammates, lightly running the bases. shagging l1y balls, taking some swings and doing cutting drills under an intense sun. Later. he took his turn with the rest of the Giants in the batting cage. Bonds will be evaluated Wednesday morning at the Kerlan-Jobe Clinic, team spokesman Blake Rhodes said. The 41-year-old slugger has yet to play this season while recovering from three opera­tions on his right knee since Jan. 31. He has been in Los Angeles for two months rehabbing his knee and practicing his hit­ting. "We waited a long time, so if we wait another day or two or three, it's OK," Giants manager Felipe Alou said. Bonds also worked out Monday, but Alou got his first· good look at the slugger in action in the outfield Tuesday and made observations. "His swing is intact," he said. "The hand-eye coordi­nation is intact. The bat is ready. The other stuff, I don't want to get into." Bonds impressed Alou by 

fielding several line drives hit by a coach. 
"I saw balls that were hit where he had to run and stop. I didn't see much favor­ing in the knee," Alou said. "He's so much better than he was in spring training. That was a real workout." 
Bonds told reporters Monday that he didn't know 
ties." 
"lie's still in the hands of the trainers and doctors," Alou said. "When we're given the green light, we'll stick him in there." 
Also Tuesday, a Giants play­er told The Associated Press that Bonds tussled with pitch­er Jason Christiansen in the clubhouse lunch­room at SBC 
when he would return. On Tuesday, Bonds  "We've been trying to battle this whole  Park earlier this season in a dis­pute about one  
wasn't talking  year without that  of Bonds' train­ 
to reporters, Rhodes said. Bonds' No. 25  major factor [Bonds]. Having him in,  ers. The player, who witnessed  
jersey hung in  the lineup is only  the June alterca­ 
his locker and  going to help  tion but spoke on  
he sat munch­ing half of a  us. He's the best  condition of anonymity  
grilled  sand­ player in the game."  because he did  
wich before his  not want to talk  
second round in the batting cage.  Noah Lowry Giants pitcher  publicly about an incident between other players,  

Pitcher Noah Lowry is eager to see Bonds return to the lineup for the Giants, who had won six straight going into Tuesday night's game against the Dodgers. 
"We've been trying to battle this whole year without that major factor," he said. "Having him in our lineup is only going to help us. He's the best player in the game." 
If and when Bonds returns, it will likely be in a pinch-hit­ter's role. 
"He'll probably pinch-hit for anybody in the lineup," Alou said. 
Alou and Bonds chatted in the manager's office after his one-man workout, and Alou said they discussed "possibili­said Christiansen 
was frustrated with Harvey Shields, Bonds' personal stretch man now employed by the team. 
"I don't think punches were thrown," the player said. "It was more grabbing. It was regarding one of Bonds' trainers, Harvey." 
Shortly after the scuffle, Bonds left for Los Angeles, so many .of his teammates had not seen him until they arrived Monday for the three­game series against the Dodgers. 
"He looks pretty good," Lowry said. "It's exciting to see him back in uniform, back in the locker room." 
You wonder how he's doing." 

AP Prior to his team's Tuesday game with rival Los Angeles Dodgers, Barry Bonds slams into the outfield wall. 
ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
1:1here will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshman students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September 12th, at 4:15p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room. 
"\Jera on CampUs/ 
Receive 20°1. offALL Vera Bradley Purchases September 8tb 
6:00 p.m. ,.... 9:00 p.m. @ The Mole Hole Gift Shop 
• 
Washable! Tbl~ DutJW Rag will carry ALL your laundry,,. 

• 
Light-Weight! 

• 
Functional! 







Rllllning to the DH'l wst wool yom 1D ood 11 few bucb'! lip g f\llul'nrM• In y~;ur l)utiwt, .. 

Only a S minute drive! 

tl 

c~p~u~u
How to gl>t there••• 
East Bank Emporium
Restaurant Building
Go ~tmth on :II. 
121 S. Niles@ Jefferson 
Tum left ont<• C\1\fnx. Turn Right (Into Nile;;. 
doWiit<>wn South Bend 
(574) 232-8488 

Contact Lisa Goepfrich at 243 Lyons Hall or 532-8671 with questions ... 

There's that question in the back of your mind... Is there some­thing more to my FAITH? Something more that I should look into? Maybe there's more to all of this Church stuff. RCIA ... 
For more info, contact: Tami Schmitz @ 631-3016 Schmitz.8@nd.edu 308 Coleman-Morse Center 
C-M 
Campus Minisrry 

Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
Find out more about: The Sacraments of Initiation: 
• Baptism, Eucharist & Confirmation: 
for unbaptized persons wanting to become a member of the Catholic Church. 
• Full Communion: 
for baptized persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
We all learn from one another. The RCIA gives you a chance to walk with someo·ne as you explore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us on this adventure of faith. 




OUND THE NATION 
w~Jnesday, Septemba 7, 2005 CoMPILED rRoM THE OnsERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 19 
College Football Associated Press Top 25 
tuam record points 
1 . Southern California (61) 1-0 1,621 2 Texas (4) 1-0 1,541 3 Michigan 1-0 1,360 4 Ohio State 1-0 1,301 5 LSU 0-0 1,291 6 Tennessee 1-0 1,280 7 Virginia Tech 1-0 1,253 8 Iowa 1-0 1,146 9 Georgia 1-0 1,131 10 Florida 1-0 1,129 11 Florida State 1-0 1,064 12 Louisville 1-0 911 13 Purdue 0-0 740 14 Miami 0-1 710 15 Arizona State 1-0 553 16 California 1-0 514 17 Georgia Tech 1-0 459 18 Oklahoma 0-1 375 19 Boston College 1-0 372 20 NOTRE DAME 1-0 345 21 Texas Tech 0-0 274 22 TCU 1-0 254 23 Virginia 1-0 232 24 Fresno State 0-0 221 25 Clemson 1-0 164 
College Football USA Today Top 25 

team record points 
1 Southern California (60) 1-0 1,547 2 Texas (2) 1-0 1,462 3 Michigan 1-0 1,337 4 Tennessee 1-0 1,268 5 LSU 0-0 1,203 6 Virginia Tech 1-0 1,201 7 Ohio State 1-0 1,178 8 Iowa 1-0 1,120 9 Georgia 1-0 1,036 10 Florida 1-0 1,030 11 Florida State 1-0 1,022 12 Louisville 1-0 794 13 Purdue 0-0 741 14 Miami 0-1 679 15 Arizona State 1-0 589 16 Oklahoma 0-1 545 17 California 1-0 454 18 Boston College 1-0 416 19 Texas Tech 0-0 366 20 VIrginia 1-0 304 21 Georgia Tech 1-0 300 22 Alabama 1-0 245 23 NOTRE DAME 1-0 165 24 Fresno State 0-0 152 25 Auburn 0-1 138 
Women's College Soccer Big East Conference 
tnam coni'. overall 
NOTRE DAME 0-0-0 4-0-0 Marquette 0-0-0 4-0-0 Louisville 0-0-0 3-1-0 Seton Hall 0-0-0 3-1-0 Pittsburgh 1-0-0 2-1-0 Saint John's 0-0-0 2-1-0 South Florida 0-0-0 2-1-0 Rutgers 0-0-0 2-1-0 Georgetown 0-0-1 2-1-1 Connecticut 0-0-0 2-2-0 West Virginia 0-1-0 2-2-0 Villanova 0-0-1 2-2-1 Providence 0-0-0 1-2-0 Cincinnati 0-0-0 1-2-0 Syracuse 0-0-0 1-3-0 Depaul 0-0-0 1-3-0 
around the dial 
MLB Texas at Minnesota 12:10 p.m., ESPN LA Angels at Boston 7:05p.m., ESPN 
SOCCER 

United States vs. Guatemala 9:00 p.m., ESPN2 
CYCLING 


AP 

Cyclist Lance Armstrong leaves a doping control bus during the 2003 Tour de France. The seven-time Tour winner, who retired after this year's race, is considering making a comeback for the 2006 Tour. 
Armstrong won't rule out return to racing 
Associated Press 

AUSTIN, Texas -After winning his seventh Tour de Prance title, Lance Armstrong stopped off the winner's podium in Paris and into retirement, declaring, ''I'm finished." 
Six weeks later, he's already talking about a comeback. 
Hecently engaged to rocker girlfriend Sheryl Crow, Armstrong issued a statement Tuesday con­firming that lw's contem­plating a return to compet­itive cycling in part because he knows how much it would rankle French media who believe his record of seven straight Tour wins is tainted by drug use. 
"While I'm absolutely enjoying my time as a retired athlete with Sheryl and the kids, the recent smear campaign out of France has awoken my competitive side," Armstrong said. ''I'm not willing to put a percentage on the chances, but I will no longer rule it out." 
When he retired, Armstrong said he was looking forward to time away from the grueling months of training and six­hour rides around the countryside. 
lie planned to spend a 
row days "with a beer, hav­ing a blast" with time dedi­cated to playing with his three young children from his first marriage. 
But he's been dogged in recent weeks with allega­tions of performance­enhancing drug use. On Aug. 23, the French news­paper L'Equipe reportnd it had evidence that six of Armstrong's urine s;i.mples from the '1)9 Tour tested positive last year for the blood booster EPO. Thn substance was banned in 1999, but there was no reliable test at the timn. 
Armstrong has angrily denied the ehargn, saying he was a victim or a 
"setup." 
lie first hinted of a come­back in an interview Monday with the Austin American-Statesman. An Armstrong spokesman on Tuesday said the com­ments were a jokn, but within hours, the cydist confirmed it was possible. 
''I'm thinking it's the best way," to angnr the Frnnch, he told the nnwspaper. ''I'm exereising nvery clay." 
Dan Osipow, manager or Armstrong's Discovery Channel team, seemed to bn caught ofr-guarcl by Armstrong's commt~nts, but said tho cydist appears determined to protect his 
leg<u~y. 
IN BRIEF 

Bonds, pitcher Christiansen 
involved in clubhouse scuffle 
SAN FHANCISCO -Barry Bonds tussled with pitcher Jason Christiansen in the dubhouse lunch­room at SBC Park earlier this season in a dispute about onn of tho slugger's trainers, anothor playor told The Associatnd Prnss on Tuesday. 
Tho player, who witnessod tho Juno altercation but spokn on condition of anonymity because ho did not want to talk publicly about an incident botwenn othor playnrs, said Christiansen was rrustratocl with Harvey Shields, Bonds' personal strntch man now omploynd by the team. 
"I don't think punches were thrown," the player said. "It was mom grabbing. It was regarding one of Bonds' trainers, Harvey." 
Shortly aftnr the scul11n, Bonds left for Los Angelos, whnre he spent morP than two months rehabilitating his troublesome right knee following three operations since Jan. 31. The 41-year-olcl slugger, third on tho career home run list, rejoined thP Giants on Monday for their game at Dodger Stadium and hoped to bn acti­vated this week. McClendon fired by Pirates 
PITTSBUHGI!-Lloyd McClendon was thn first Pittsburgh Pirates man­ager brought back after four conseeu­tivn losing seasons. One loss away from a lil'th such season, the Pirates dneided they wantnd someone elsn running the club. 
McClendon, an aggressive former player known for his eompetitivnness and frequent run-ins with umpires, was l'irod Tuesday after averaging morn than 90 lossos since 2001 for a perennially non-contending team. 
Bench coach Pete Mackanin will bn the interim 01anager for the rest of the season. 
The talent-thin Pirates, who only this season began a concerted 11fl'ort to rnbuild with youth, wern 55-In going into Tuesday night's game against Arizona and were tind with Colorado lin· the NJ:s worst rncord. Devils' defenseman Stevens 
retires 
EAST HUTIIImFOHD. N . .J.-New Jersey Dnvils clernnsnman Srott Stnvens annourH~nd his n~tirPnwnt. after more than two dneadns in the NIIL on Tuesday. saying a ynar otT showed him that lw could live with­out hockny. 
"I think the gamn is morn nwntal than physical. You have to be in trnmnndous shape, but you have to want to do it in your !wad," tlw 41­ynar-old playnr said. "At this point in my earner I didn't think I could put. thn mnnt.al parts t.lwrn twt~ry d<~Y· and tt.~at's a big part of playing thrs game. 
General managnr Lou Larnorinllo said Stevens, a 13-timn All-Star who won thnw Stanley Cups wit.h tlw Devils and played morn Nlll. gamns than any othnr dnfnnseman during his 22 snasons, has "been an intn­gral part of all the success we've had." 
..--------­
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 7, 2005 
SMC GOLF 



Mattia leads tean1 in weekend tournan1ent 
By ANNA FRICANO Sporrs Writer 
Senior Megan Mattia led the way for the Saint Mary's golf team this past weekend, shooting an 81 in the final day of the Ferris State Bulldog Invitational and coming in at 25th place over­all. Mattia's efforts helped the Belles to achieve an 11 th-piace fmish in their first competition of the year. 
The team got off to a somewhat slow start on Saturday, and they were in 12th place after the first round. Nearly all of the golfers saw improved scores on Sunday as everyone adjusted to the course. The improvement allowed Saint Mary's to overcome regional-competitors St. Joseph's­Indiana at the conclusion of the tournament. 
One disappointing factor for Saint Mary's was that the Belles were beaten by MIAA opponent Olivet College. Although the defeat does not affect conference standings, the Belles, who have captured the MlAA title for three years in a row, did not like to see themselves finishing eight strokes behind their opponent. 
Mattia has been an integral part of the 'Saint Mary's golf pro­gram for the past three years, gaining MlAA honors and show­ing continual improvement in her scores. The past weekend marked the fourth and final appearance that Mattia would make at the Bulldog Invitational, and the senior is not upset to be done with that particular event. 
"I've played that course for four years ... I didn't really like it so I'm glad not to have to play it again," said Mattia. 

But the weekend did provide Mattia with a basis for improve­ment during her last season with the Belles. 
"I played pretty solid," she said. "I've been practicing pretty hard [but] there is still room for improvement." 
For someone who has been on a winning team her entire college career, losing to Olivet was not easy to swallow. But Mattia has her mind on continued improve­ment both individually and as a team, and is confident that she and her peers will be able to make her last season a success. 
"Individually I just want to play really well, to make first-team all-conference, to keep improving [and] score well," Mattia said. 
But, at least for the next week, the only thing the Mattia, as well as the rest of the Saint Mary's team, has to deal with is to be the only Division-III team represent­ed at Division-! tournament. The Belles will make the short trip over to Notre Dame this weekend to compete in a two-day competi­tion with a host of D-I schools. The competition will probably be the most difficult for Saint Mary's all year, but the Belles are look­ing forward to the challenge. 
"I think we're all pretty nerv­ous for it but we hope to play well," said Mattia. "It's an honor just to be invited." 
Mattia will most likely continue to be one of the leading factors on the Saint Mary's team, and the Belles can count on the senior to provide low scores this weekend and for the rest of the season. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 11t\ at 7:00pm and at 8:00pm in Room 102 of De_Bartolo Hall. 
The sessions will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen. 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students., faculty., and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467. 
........................................................................................................................................... 
• Nights & Weekends 


AND 600
• Centennial-to­Centennial 
ANVTIME PER
•· Nationwide Long
Distance MINUTES MONTH 
ELKHART SOUTll BEND SOUTH BEND NAPPANEE PLVMOUTll ROCHESTER WINAMAC 3506 S. MAIN ST. 4327 WESTERN AVENUE n21 E. IRELAND ROAD MARTIN'S 1440 PILGRIM LANE IN ENYART'S TRUE VALUE 858 PLYMOUTH RD AGROSS FROM MARTIN'S SHOPPING PLAZA BROADMDORE PLAZA SUPERMARKET K-MART PLAZA, 1619 MAIN ST. SANDER'S MARKET CONCORD MAU (574) 246-1179 (574) 231-8830 (574) 773-5805 NEXTTD LOWES (574) 223-2706 (574) 946-7400 (574) 298-9500 (574) 935-0033 
ERICSSON iiE

SOUTll BEND MISHAWAKA PLVMOUTll lAPORTE ElKHART 6341 UNIVERSITY COMMONS 6501 NORTH GRAPE RD. MARTIN'S NILES Ars SUPERMARKET -~ CONCORD MALL BEHIND UNIVERSITY PARK MALL, UNIVERSITY PARK MALL SUPERMARKET 2010 S. 11TH AVE. (219) 325-0885 
(574) 87!;.0440 NEAR TACO BELL (574) 271-8999 (574) 93!;.5773 NEXT TO PAYLESS SHOES :if~!. . (574) 298-9150 (269) 684-7000 
Wednesday, September 7, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
fans alike. coach for the Montreal Canadiens. right attitude. strong ownership supporting his Bowman is widely considered No other coach in history has "I think the most important moves.
Bowntan 
one of the greatest hockey coaches won more NHL games than continued from page 24 of all time, a label shared with his Bowman, nor has any drunk from 
mentor and winner of eight the Cup more times -nine total, oil" thn 2005-06 hockey season by Stanley Cups, Ton Blake. Bowman five with Montreal, one with ,Jackson, whnre the big-name learned the ins and outs of the Pitl<>burgh, and three with Detroit. guest minglnd with players and NIIL game from Blake as a junior And he goes about it all with the 




Rate Auto Loansl 
The safum'e low rate on new or used autos­leaves our competition 
· in the dust. 

0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
otltle 
attribute a person can have is his or her own attitude, just because I've seen a lot of situations where I've had to make decisions on players, whether to keep them or whether to play them or whatever the reason is, and it came down usually to attitude," Bowman said. "I think the individual attitude of the person is probably 90 percent of the battle of being successful." 
Bowman described hL<> climb up the professional coaching ladder, starting as a coach in thf1 Montreal Canadiens junior system and cul­minating with his final Stanley Cup with the Detroit Hnd Wings in 2002. 
"I had the feeling that maybe I should get out on top while I ean," Bowman said, describing his deci­sion to leave the hockey world after 2002. He now spends time traveling with his wife and winters in Florida, where he catches many Tampa Bay Ughtning games. 
Bowman littered his tale with anecdotes of people who have inOuenced him and funny tales from the ien. One night as coach of the St. Louis Blues, Bowman set a curfew for his players. lie then grabbed a stick and gave it to the bellhop promising $1 0 an auto­graph that the bellhop got after the curfew. The next day in prac­tice he had six autographs and showed the awestruek curfew­breaking icers their mistake. 
Throughout the speech, Bowman made reference that his success has been aided by a 
"They Lthe owners) wanted to have good teams," he said. "They left no stone unturned. That and the fact that I did the job for a long time. It was a lot easier the last decade coaching than it wa.•; in my first." 
Bowman had nothing but praise of Jackson. 
"He's a well-experienced guy," he said. "He knows how to got a team together. It's going to take some time, but he has a lot of good ideas." 
In a pre-speech dosnd gather­ing, Bowman spoke of the dutl­lenges Jackson l'aees in turning around th1~ Irish. 
"You have to li!.,rure out the bnst way to win with what you've got," he said. "Them an1 diflimmt ways to win. You can't ehangn overnight; you ean't just bring players in when you havn a eol­legn team. lin's been at Lake Superior State, tlwy worn not a h01~key power. but hn madn thmn a hockey powm·." 
The legendary coach eondudnd his spnm~h with a rnflmtion on his entire carenr and what it has meant to him, . 
"You have to havn passion to do your job," Bowman said. "I rwvnr thought of it as a job; I've had othnr jobs, but have had no bnttnr fe11lings than in coaching whnn y~nr take ~5 guys ~~.nd rnach that pmnaeln of sueenss. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Belles 
continued from page 24 
Schroeder-Hick spoke highly of the llopn team. 
"They have a strong winning tradition at Hope. They have good hitting, and they don't give up; they always compete," she said. "We've had a good rivalry with them." 
II' tho Bnllns arn to rnach thnir goal of moving up thn MIAA standings, tlwy must win home contesl'i in lnagun play, nspndally against quality opporwnts like llopn. The Bnllns w1wn 5-11 in tlw MIAA last snason, :~-5 at homn. Schroednr-Biek spok11 or thn importance or notching a win in the first mnlin·1mcn match. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 



Everything you need for high-speed Internet access. 
Sign up for the SBC Student Plan 
SBC Yahoo! DSL Express + Your Local Access Line 
as low as 
$ 
75* 
a month for a g-month term! 
'Other monthly charges apply. 

Taxes, other charges and the Federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. For details of additional charges, restrictions and requirements, callt-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.com/u. SBC, the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and service marl\s are the property of their respective owners. ©2005 SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. All rights reserved. IN 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, Septermber 7, 2005 
game. And you can't rest on 
doing." rect. I thought the officiating for your laurels and feel good 
And Weis said that through the most part was right on. I have 
RankedRivals 
about yourself because you 
Brady, he has gotten to know no complaints." continued from page 24 played a good opener. You 
continued from page 24 head coach Uoyd Car-r. Instant replay is different in have to be worried about 
"I have an affinity towards college, as coaches do not have played OK in the first game Michigan because if not, 
rants some consideration," Weis Michigan through my relation­the ability to challenge a play as and we're going against one of you're going to get your butt 
said. "I think it's great for our ship with Tommy over my years they do in the NFL. the top teams in the country, kicked." 
players to get some respect for with the Patriots and I've grown "You take the pressure off the that's the story." The Irish, meanwhile will 
how they play, but it all comes a great respect for Coach Carr coaches [in college]." Weis said. Notre Dame-Michigan is one prepare to play at Michigan 
down to how we play this week. and his staff," Weis said. ''I'd like to see it where the pres­of the most storied rivalries in Stadium, where they have had 
We'll see where we're rated after sure is on the coaches, rather collegiate history. From Harry little luck in recent trips to 
we play Michigan. The only issue Bowman speaks to Irish than waiting for an official Oliver's 51-yard field goal to Ann Arbor. In 2003, the Irish 
at hand is Michigan." NHL coach Scotty Bowman, upstairs [to decide if a play is win the 1980 game to Darius lost 38-0 as Chris Perry ran for 
who holds the NHL records for reviewed]." Walker leading the charge in 133 yards and scored four 
Talking to Tommy wins and winning percentage, his first collegiate game last .touchdowns for the 
Michigan coach Lloyd Carr spoke to the Irish Tuesday for Weis and Carr season, this matchup has Wolverines. The Irish have not 
coached New England Patriots about five minutes. He was in The relationship between the always been exciting. won at Michigan Stadium 
quarterback Tom Brady for four town to be the keynote speaker at two head coaches is one that But Weis, who debuted as a since 1993, and the 
years at Michigan from 1995-99. Notre Dame hockey's "Drop the dates back to when Weis was an head coach with a 42-21 drub­Wolverines have a 16-game 
Weis coached Brady for four Puck" dinner Tuesday night. assistant coach under Bill bing of Pittsburgh last week­home winning streak coming 
years as the offensive coordinator "It was a great experience," Parcells with the New York end, does not plan to let the into Saturday's game. 
of the Patriots. However, running back Darius Walker said. Giants and New York Jets. rivalry aspect of this game "I think the interesting thing 
although Brady told the Boston "He's a wonderfUl coach and his "I have a lot of respect for the interfere with what he has to about this coaching staff is 
Herald Monday that he would be track record speaks for itself." · whole staff and their associate do. that they approach each game 
pulling for his alma mater, Weis head coach Fred Jackson is a "Not to downplay it, but it's the same, regardless of who 
is not concerned about his former Instant replay thoughts very close friend of mine. He's a no different to me this week as we're playing," running back 
protege. Weis said Tuesday that after friend of.mine come Sunday, it was last week," Weis said. Darius Walker said. "We have 
"I talked to Tommy multiple reviewing the game tape he did­enemy until then," Weis said. ''I'm just worried about going our goals set as to what we 
times last week and I think that n't have any big gripes with the Carr invited Weis to speak at into 'The Big House' and trying need to do." 
right now he's just worried about use of instant reply, although he his spring coaching clinic a few to win the game. I have no And with over 100,000 fans 
the Raiders," Weis said of Brady, thought Pittsburgh quarterback years ago as well. emotions at all about Notre expected at "The Big House," 
who plays in his season opener Tyler Palko's fumble shouldn't "I've known Charlie quite a Dame versus Michigan." Weis has planned special drills 
for the Patriots Thursday night. "I have been overturned via replay. while," Carr said. "We had him in And the football starts with for the Irish to practice dealing 
don't think he's spending a lot of "I thought that most of the calls here, as a matter of fact, a couple Michigan's potent ofTense, led with the noise. 
time talking to anyone from were right," Weis said. "The only years ago to speak at our [coach­by two sophomores-quarter­"You have to practice silent 
Michigan or Notre Dame right one that I thought was close, I ing! clinic. I like him, and I have a back Chad Henne and running snap count in case you can't 
now. He's just concerned about thought the one play was a fum­lot of respect for him." back Mike Hart, the Big Ten hear," Weis said. "We dedicate 
beating the Raiders Thursday ble. But I could be wrong -it Freshman of the Year last sea­one day, probably Thursday, 
night. And I know Tommy, and I was close. I thought instant Contact Heather Van Hoegarden son. Tight end Tim Massaquoi where you blare noise so loud 
can promise you that's what I'm replay for the most part was cor-at hvanhoeg@nd.edu was first team All-Big Ten last you can't hear. You'll barely be season, with 18 receptions for able to hear the quarterback 184 yards. give you the play in the hud­
"They have a lot of dle. That's the best way to pre­
play our best game." Mackenzie's team goals ­weapons, Weis said. pare people to handle the 
Illinois Wesleyan knocked off maintaining mental toughness "Obviously as you look at the noise and to concentrate when 
Kickoff 
Belles' rival Hope College on on the road. Mackenzie wants options on offense, it's very you can't hear anything." 
continued from page 24 Saturdayl-0. The Titans out­her players to not focus on formidable." But the Irish will have to do 
shot Hope 13-4 and controlled what happened in the past, And as a result, Notre Dame much more than just handle 
a strong outing last weekend every aspect of the game. but focus on what her team will face a tough challenge in the noise if they are to win 
in the Marietta College The Belles split last season's needs to do at the moment, to just its second game of the Saturday. 
Classic, knocking of SUNY­games with Hope, winning 2-0 maintain the high energy she season, in Michigan who "We know Michigan is going 
Brockport 4-3 in double OT and losing 3-2. The close feels her team possesses. comes off a 33-17 win over to be a challenge and we are 
and losing to Marietta 1-0 in a proximity with which the Saint Mary's will take the Northern Illinois in its opener going to have to play a lot bet­
close game. Belles and Illinois Wesleyan field at Illinois Wesleyan at 7 last week. ter than we did last week to 
"We just want to go out both played Hope should por­p.m. today. "Let's face it, this is a tough win this game," Weis said. 
there and go at them strong," tend for a closely fought opponent," Weis said. "We're 
Higgins said. "Coach [Caryn game. going to have to play very well Contact Heather Van Hoegarden 
Mackenzie] just wants us to But it all comes down to the Contact Kyle Cassity at to have a chance to win the at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
play with high energy and Belles executing on one of kcassily@nd.edu 
Nine DayS of Prayer 
and solidarity ·with our sisters and brothers 7.Dho have struggled through the trauma of Hurricane 
Katrina 
A profound word of thanks to the entire Notre Dame community-st-udents, faculty, and staff­who helped to contribute for relief efforts over the weekend. 
A nine day period of prayer and solidarity 
CONTINUES TODAY, SEPTEMBER 7 through WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 
6:30 -6:45PM in the BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Mass on the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows, Thursday, September 15 at 5:15PM, will conclude the nine days of prayer. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Wednesday, September 7, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 31 Workplaces with 59 Extract, as a openings, for chemical from a
1 1952 Winter short? solution
Olympics site 32 Phoenix team 60 Arab statesman
5 Way up? 33 Perils for 61 Loads
9 Mexican gelt spelunkers 62 Point on a line 4 Religious leader 35 Quip, part 3 
born Giovanni 63 Jungle climber 38 Warming
de Medici 
64 Only about 10% 5 Hitchhiked, e.g. 
39 Take _(doze) of it is visible 42 Suddenly
6 no us became DOWN
7 Like morning attentive, with grass "up" 1 Proverbs 
8 Start of a quip 45 Helpers: Abbr. 2 Transparent, modern-style
:o Product at a 46 Symbol of gas station leakiness 3 Nadir 
:1 Puts in firmly 47 Rachmaninoff, 4 Prefix with for one acetylene
:2 Museo holdings 49 Quip, part 4 5 Open dare
:3 Quip, part 2 50 Fencer's 6 Ninny 
:5 Key of weapon
Beethoven's 7 Together, on a 51 Obsequious sort
Symphony No. 5 score 55 Dis's partner 8 Bank stamp 
'7 More twisted abbr.
56 End of the quip 

:8 Romantic 29 1 00-meter dash, 41 Action in a 49 Military
9 Encage 
comedies, e.g. 58 Words of denial e.g. · snowball fight chaplain 10 China's Zhou 
30 "Shoot!" 42 Felt 52 Map abbr. 
lNSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

33 Pretty marble 53 Circular
11 Camping fuel 43 Lab glass 
opening?
34 Spot

12 One raising 44 Binds 
one's voice 36 Bit of fraying 54 Primary 46 Upper house 
13 Religious feasts 37 Opening of 57 Stake 
member: Abbr. 
many a speech

19 Attribute 58 Catch red­40 Pilot 48 Really irk handed
21 It touches the 
=+:+.::+:+.-:il!ltpt!l -i:-+7+:':-f'!'P!!It-'::+:-:+::-t River Jordan: . Abbr. For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a cr~dit card, 1-800-814-5554.
24 Do over, as a Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
!JU~~··· 

lawn
-=+-:-+-:-:-f'!!" -:::~:+:::+::rl 26 Waiter's Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
handout 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -=+=+:+.+.::-! 28 Series on a ski Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young slope solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles. one 
Jetter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
All done 
KOWEA 

I [ J 
©2005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LYRDY 

.[I J I I 
THE:: OUTL-AWS 

j 
tHENUCQ t 
RESPECTED THE:: ARTIST BE::C.AUSE HI:' WA5-­IJ I J www.jumble.com 
DRAILZ 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Greg Ruscdski, 32; Rosie Perez, 41; Jane Curtin, SX; Swoosie Kurtz, 61 
Happy Birthday: If you go full tilt and aren't lazy this year, you can do well. If you procrastinate, you may even lose ground. You have the creativity and the talent but, if you don't do something with it, you won't prosper. Your numbers are 3, 6, 24, 35, 39,47 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Your emotions will be hard to control today but, if you feel passionate about something, speak up so the issues can be resolved. Be tactful and you can massage any problems that arise. *** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Focus on what you can do --not what you can't. A chance to do something nice for someone will lead to advancement. Be authoritative if you want people to respect you, but don't be pushy. *** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You should be traveling f(Jr business or pleasure. You can learn something that will contribute to future projects. An image update will turn out to be fabulous. ••••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may understand the dynamics of the relationships that are unfolding, but that won't help you much if you allow someone else to get the upper hand. Approach the situation with reverse psychology. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may tccl uncertain about money matters or deals that are up in the air. Talk to someone you trust and get the information required to close the deal. Your friends and relatives are there to help you, so take what's being offered. • ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make a very strategic career move today. Don't settle for less when you know you arc capable of doing far more. It's never too late to follow a dream. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be ready to take on anyone and everyone today. You can convince others to back somQthing you want to do. A talent can be developed and incorporated into what you want to do in the future. • • • SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It's time to clear up loose ends. You can't move torward until you are satisfied that everything is in position. Your success will depend on how organized and prepared you arc. • •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): What you have done in the past will be rewarded today. An involvement with someone from a totally ditfercnt background will be enlightening and aid you in getting ahead. •• •• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Exp..ect the unexpected and you will be prepared for what's to come. Personal relationships will be tense, especially if you are trying to get everyone to do things your way. •• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Love and romance arc looking good. Getting together with interesting people will tum into an opportunity to make some extra cash. You have plenty of talent and today is the day to develop it. ••• •• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Everything will revolve around home, health and legal concerns. Take over ifyou want these issues resolved with the least amount of anguish. Making changes to your living arrangements will be to your benetit. 
Birthday Baby: You have persistent drive and concern with detail, coupled with intelligence and creativity. You can multitask and arc outgoing and dynamic. 
Eu!{enia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun. eu!{enialast.com for confidential consultations 
--------------------------------------·-----------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to. the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
· D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _________ State _____ Zip_________ 
. ... ::. . 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, September 7, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Making some noise 
Weis glad that focus returns to team and its goals this week 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

Last week it was Charlie ver­sus Dave. This week it's No. 20 Notre Dame versus No. 3 Michigan. . 
One·week al'ter Notre Dame's Charlie Weis and Pittsburgh's Dave Wannstedt made their debuts as collegiate head coach­es, the focus is finally on the football game. 
"I had become such a distrac­tion going into the game and I think now we're past that," Irish coach Charlie Weis said Tuesday at his weekly press conference. "I think now the fact that we 
see RIVALS/ page 22 


Irish leap to No. 20 in AP poll and No. 23 in USA Today 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

After Saturday's 42-21 win over then-No. 23 Pittsburgh on the road, the Irish earned a spot in both the Associated Press and USA Today polls. They are ranked No. 20 in the Associated Press poll and No. 23 in the USA Today poll. 
However, Irish coach Charlie Weis isn't getting caught up in the rankings after only one game and a matchup with No. 3 Michigan on the horizon for Saturday. 
"We've played one game and we played fairly well, so it war-
see RANKED/page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles take on Hope for first conference match 
College invitational. The team lost level competition and we compet­areas as the season continued. the hands of Wisconsin­
By RYAN KIEFER 

its first three contests to Elmhurst, ed with them. They didn't run "They did a good job playing Whitewater, who is currently Sporrs Writer 
Wisconsin-Oshkosh and St. over us. If anything this weekend together," she said. "Now we just ranked No. 8 in the country. Hope Scholastica before defeating built our confidence." need to tighten everything up. We split two contest.•; with the Belles The Belles of Saint Mary's will Blackburn for their first victory of Practice sessions this week were also need to get everyone more last season, with each team win­take their first step toward an the season. Despite the results, focused on improving areas experience." ning on their opponent's home MIM crown when they host Hope Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek was where the Belles struggled during Hope (3-1) enters tonight's con­floor. Hope finished last season in College tonight in the conference pleased with her team's play. weekend play, with a special test having won three games at fourth place in the MIAA, three opener for both teams. ''I'm very excited about how we emphasis on serve reception. the Wisconsin-Whitewater tour­places ahead of the Belles. Coach 
The Belles (1-3) are coming ofl' a played over the weekend," she Schroeder-Biek felt her team nament over the weekend. The tough weekend at the Elmhurst said. "We faced great national would become sharper in all Flying Dutch's lone loss came at see BELLES/page 21 
HOCKEY 
Bowman speaks at event 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Spans Writer 

Irish hockey coach Jeff Jackson pinches himself every morning when he approaches campus and spots the Golden Dome gleaming in the early sun, just to remind himself how lucky he is. And everyone in attendance to hear legendary professional hockey coach Scotty Bowman speak at Notre Dame's opening hockey banquet on Tuesday night could­n't help but have the same reac­tion in the presence of a man so influential to hi'i game. 
Bowman was asked to speak at the Drop the Puck Dinner to kick 
see BOWMAN/page 21 


Scotty Bowman, shown here directing Red Wings players in 2002, was the keynote speaker at Tuesday's hockey dinner. 
SMC SOCCER 

Tea111 set to take on Dill defending cha111pions 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

The Belles will enter uncharted waters this evening as they travel to face Illinois Wesleyan in the final tune-up game before MIAA play begins this weekend against Hope College. 
The Titans of Illinois Wesleyan are a much tougher opponent than Saint Mary's is used to facing in regular con­ference action. They are defending Division III national champions and play in the highly regarded College 
Conference of Illinois and Wisconsin, earning an overall 14-6-1 record. 
Illinois has won 10 straight CCIW titles, ,but due to heavy senior losses from last year is now ranked second in CCIW pre-season polls. 
"I think they have some really fast forwards," mid­fielder Justine Higgins said of the dangerous Titans. "It's a really good experience because I think they are tougher than most teams in our conference." 
The Belles are coming off of 
see KICKOFF/page 22 

SMC GOlF CYCliNG MlB 

NFL HUIUUCANE 

U.S. OPEN 
LLI C.) Mattia leads Lineman died of 

Federer survives z team with 81 
Barry Bonds remains
Lance Armstrong, 

heart problems 
After the campus was 
scare, advances 

on the disabled list,retired and recently ruined in Hurricane
::5 

although he's practicedMegan Mattia led the accused. of using A coroner said that 
Katrina, Tulane will 
The top-seeded tennis
c::s 

with the team. 
steroids, could make aBelles this weekend in Thomas Herrion's death play home games at five player lost a set today,

c:z: 
comeback already. 

their first tournament. 
was due to heart disease. 
different universities. 
but kept his cool to win 
the match. 
!;: 

page 20 page 19 page 16 page 16page 17
page 18 
., 






