
The Independent Newspap'er Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Dietary habits pose ongoing struggle 
that spur an unsafe hypercon­Notre Dame manager of Web sites like WebMD.com, show signs of apprehensionBy KATIE PERRY sciousness of nutrition and nutrition and safety Jocie broadcast new·s channels like before embarking on their first News Writer 
exercise. Antonelli said the root of the CNN and magazine publica­semester at college, the issue Freshman 15 freshman 15 is hardly mysteri­tions like Newsweek, incoming is brought to the forefront 
Although the "freshman I5·" Living in a college setting, ous. freshmen may not worry about upon arrival to campus. is notorious combined with the pressures "It is generally easy to weight gain a great deal prior A Dee. 1 NDToday.eom sur­for causing of managing demanding class. understand the causes," to arriving on campus. vey asked current students if
See Also
first-ynar eol­es and the somewhat unlimit­Antonelli said. "I think ·it boils "I think that people definite­they felt the effects of the lngn students "Variety of ed availability of food on cam­down to three things -stu­ly know about the freshman 15 freshman 15 -45 percent of across the pus, can often lead to quick dents eating late at night, and most people hope not to the responses were a "yes."
food choices 
nation to weight gain during a student's alcohol consumption and gain an extra 15 pounds their "The concept of the fresh­gain unwant­offered" tirst year at a university. Over excitement at the initial array freshman year, but I don't man 15 exists here just the nd pounds, time, freshmen may begin to of [food] options available." think it's one of the primary same as it exists on every col­
page 3 
there may be see the eiTects of these factors Despite media attention concerns for a new freshman," lege campus," Antonelli said. other reper­in the form of "the freshman given to the freshman 15 via freshman Kimmy Tavarez said. cussions to tlw phenomenon 15." outlets like Internet health Though students may not 
:-:------:-==-___:_=-======================================================------:--------=--.­
-:=--:-_·----­

ND faces eating disorders 
By LISA SCHULTZ 
Nt'ws Wrircr 
Notre Dame will bo holding Eating I>isordnrs Awarnness Wnnk in an attmnpt to creato an nnvironnwnt more open to diversity and less focused on imagn. Val11ri11 Staples, eoordi­nator of Eating Disorder Snrvicns in the University Counsnling Ctmter, has been planning activitins and oxhibits in conjunction with "U BWell," a studnnt-run welhwss group, sinen Octob1~r. 
Hating Disorders Awareness Wnnk is a national nvnnt from Fob. 27 to Man:h 5. The dates, hownver, were shiftnd for Notre Dame due to spring hrnak. In gmwral. eollege stu­donl<i arn partieularly afl(H:ted by eating disorders because eollngn is a time of transition, which rnakns individuals more vulnerable, Staplns said. 
I>nspitn iL'l pnwalnnee, pno­pln are hesitant to talk about disordornd nating. Through 
Weis scheduled to visit dortns 


By PAT LEONARD News Writer  As part of an organized effort to have the new Irish head football coach acquaint himself with the  lot of requests when Coach Willingham was hirod." Heisler said Willingham made  
Notre Dame community, Weis will  appearances in various dormito­ 
Charlio Weis spoke at 6 a.m. last  visit campus dormitories from  ries in the spring of 2002. Weis'  
Monday to 207 students, begin­ 10:15  p.m.  to  11  p.m.  each  visiting process, however, will be  
ning his first full day on the job in  Monday through Thursday until  more organized.  
the Joyce Center. Now, due to stu­ he speaks to all of the brother and  This week, Weis already is  
dent initiative and compliance in  sister hall groups.  scheduled to visit his first group of  
the Notre Dame Athletic Office, the.  'This has been kind of a tradi­ brother and sister dorms, includ­ 
new Irish hnad football coach will  tional thing around here," John  ing Stanford, Breen Phillips,  
make himself more visible on  Heisler, senior associate athletic  
earn pus by visiting dormitories.  director, said. "We certainly had a  



Heininger announces General Board editors 
Observer Stall Report Managing Editor role, Observer's Sports Editor since as the Assistant Managing 
Tho Observer has hired lloiningor said. Throe people March 2004. Editor for Speeial Projects, dnpartmnnt nditors for all but will hold the title of Assistant Sarah Vabulas will serve as overseeing the publieations orw (;nnnral Board position, Managing Editor, with each the Assistant Managing Editor and events surrounding The incoming l·:ditor in Chin!' Clairn focusing on hor area of for Viewpoint and Systems, Observer's 40th anniversary. ll!liningnr announced Sunday. expertise. overseeing Viewpoint staff and Reynolds, a junior from Oak 
Thn appointnwnts aro niTec­lloather Van lloegarden will content and supervising Tho Lawn, Ill., lives in Pasquerilla tivn March 14. snrv11 as the Assistant Observer's technological West and is majoring in 
"l•:ach pnrson snlnctnd brings Managing Editor for News and equipment. Vabulas, a junior accounting and political sci­signil'ieant talnnt and expnri­Advnrtising, overseeing a from Alpharetta, Ga., lives in ence. Heynolds previously ~~ncn to tlwir n~spnctivn posi­nnws dnpartment of approxi­Saint Mary's LeMans llall and worknd as an Associate tions," llniningnr said. "I am mately 30 people and super­is majoring in communications­Viewpoint Editor and an 1:onfidnnt thn staff assnrnblnd vising news and advnrtising and religious studies. Vabulas Associate News Editor. will build on tlw tradition of contnnt. Van lloegarden, a has served as The Observer's Two p o s i t i o n s are be i n g nxcnllnncn Tho Obsnrvor has junior from Pasquerilla Wf1St, Viewpoint Editor sinen filled by staff members who nstablishnd." is an accounting major and January 2004 after previously held them previously. Michael 
Thorn will bo a rnstructuring journalism minor from Burr working as the Scene Editor. of lnadnrship in thn Assistant Hidge, Ill. She served as The Maureen Heynolds will serve 
Alleged harasser caught 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
Notre Dame Security Poli­ce intends to file criminal charges against a man who allngedly snxually harassed a female staffer and a female student in separate on-campus incidents last week, NDSP director Hex Hakow said Sunday. 
The man. a South Bond resident who is not alliliatt~d with tho University, was rid­ing his bike near the Holf's Sports Hecroation Cnnter at approximately 11:30 a.m. Tuesday when he approached tho stall'er from behind and grabbed her but­tocks, Hakow said. 
Hakow declined to release names of those involved. 
The stall'or, who is in her mid-twenties, called NDSP when she returned to her ofliee, but the alleged sus­pect escaped, Hakow said. 
The man repnated his actions the next day, alleged­ly harassing an off-eampus female senior at approxi­mately 11:15 a.m. near the Eck Tennis Pavilion, Hakow said. After the student called NDSP from hnr eoll phonn, nearby ollicers worn abln to apprehend tho man and bring him in for quostioning, when he admitted to both ineidnnts, Hakow said. 
'l~hn man w'as not arrostnd, Hakow said, bncauso the alleged erime was not a fnlony and NDSP did not wit­nnss either inddent. NJ>SJ> did issue a trnspass warning against thn man, which moans he will be arrosted immndiately if' ho attnmpts to eomn on campus again, Hakow said. 
The allegnd suspnct did not know nithnr tho staffnr or the studnnt, Hakow said, calling tho man's aetions a 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Every111an bovvls 
A champion's death came and went la'it week with paltry coverage and little fanfare. A native son of Indiana, Dick Weber (pronounced "webber") passed away at the age of75. 
Dick Weber was a bowler. Please don't stop reading, I promise this is 
Matt Mooney
going somewhere. I agree that "bowler" and "athlete" are 
Sports Writer 
not synonymous. Any competition which derives its competitive advantage from alcohol con­sumption (see billiards, beiruit or golf), while making for one helluva game, should not qualifY as a sport. But the dis­tinction of "athlete" in no way removes the honor associated with successful gamesmanship in any of these contests. Thus, it is with the same deep respect that Weber should receive his due accord. 
To say he was "a bowler" and not "the bowler" would be to do him an injustice. Weber's charisma and reign as one of the top bowlers in the 1960's turned him into one of the game's greatest ambassa­dors. One could argue that his legacy has kept the game's pulse from flat-lining in an age that craves and demands instant entertainment. 
Granted, a few short weeks ago, my only reasons for knowing or caring about Weber's life and legacy would be to start conversation in a nursing home or to have a word that rhymes with "ebber" (as in "happily ebber after"). Perhaps it was his spirit that subcon­sciously infused itself in seven friends and me to join the Fun League at Beacon Bowl. I will admit that our methods of pre-gaming before the traditional Tuesday trek to Corby's are rather unconventional, but bowling has some­thing else to offer. One of the main rea­sons my friends and I took up this increasingly addictive hobby was to spend the last semester of our senior year celebrating something unique to the Notre Dame experience: townies. 
The best part is that the townies are about as diverse as you can get, and that is the legacy of Dick Weber. Outside of the bowling alley, Weber was just anoth­er Richard, an ordinary guy. He was not an extraordinary physical specimen by any means. The complete lack of "gifts" or "talent" required to participate draws a wide demographic to the lanes creat­ing the perfect game for Everyman. 
And Everyman comes out to bowl. As I have witnessed in a few short weeks in the league, bowling is the great equaliz­er. Nowhere else can the seventy-some­thing old lady with the 12-inch forearm take out the 6-foot-5 alpha male without breaking a sweat. Even the most focused, upper-class student will drop a gutter ball when his peripheral vision catches the fat guy with the mullet whose low-slung jean shorts leave very little to the imagination. 
I do not profess to be a "good bowler" by any stretch, and thanks to the legacy of Dick Weber, I don't have to be. Who knows, with any luck, by the end of the season Ijust might win back the $40 that some twerp fifth grader hustled off me last week. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and 
not  necessarily  those  of  The  
Observer.  
Contact  Matt  Mooney  at  
mmooney@nd. edu  

CORRECTION 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times ..We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mis­take, please conract us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 21, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DO FOR JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND? 







Chris Wodicka Colleen Key James Vranish John Furrey Kevin Bradley Krystal Hardy 
freshman junior junior sophomore sophomore sophomore Siegfried Breen-Phillips Siegfried Sorin St. Edward's Cavanaugh 
"/ took over the "/ watched my "/threw "/saw "/slept through "Blak koffee 
world.,, mom and his snowballs at my 'Second City. , mom do a girlfriend's I miss my 
,
Chinese firedrill parents. mommy. on Douglas Road." 

ERIN VRANISH/The Observer 
Honey, the dog of Stanford Hall rector Father Tom Gaughan, patrols the halls of the dorm Sunday. 
OFFBEAT 

Mistakenly freed inmate returns to prison 
CANTON, Ohio -An inmate released by mis­take by jail officials in Ohio arranged his own way back to the prison in Colorado where he still has two more years to serve. He even called to say he was on his way. 
Stark County jailers let Ricky Lee Claycomb go on Tuesday after he was acquitted of a rape charge he had been brought to Ohio from Colorado to face. Jail officials appar­ently never saw the paper­work to return him to the prison. 
"We don't know exactly what happened," Sheriff Tim Swanson said. 
Claycomb, 37, called his mother in Henderson, Colo. 
"He told them at the jail that he was supposed to be taken back to Colorado," said his mother, Jill Claycomb. "He said they told him he was done in Canton and it was his problem to get back." 
Coroner wins approval for shrink-wrap machine 
OLYMPIA, Wash. -In the case of a natural disas­ter or terrorist attack, some emergency officials 
in Western Washington plan to be prepared ­with a large, shrink wrap machine.. 
The Thurston County Coroner's Office recently won approval to purchase a machine able to shrink­wrap human remains. The process would make it eas­ier to transport a large number of bodies. 
After the bodies have been autopsied and identi­fied, they would be zipped into body bags, placed on a plywood trays and cov­ered with cardboard lids. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0::: 
1.&.1 
::c =c 
1.&.1 

==
...... 
c( 
(,) 






_,0 HIGH 38 HIGH HIGH HIGH LOW 33 LOW LOW LOW 
26 21 

37 
23 
30 18 
it." house., 
IN BRIEF 

As part of Haiti Awareness Week, a dinner and lecture event, entitled "A Taste of the Caribbean: Eyes on Haiti," will be held today from 6 p.m. to 8 
p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. Father Tom Streit will be speaking. 
Professor John Shinners will give the lecture "The Da Vinci Code: Cracked or Crackpot?" today at 7:30 p.m. in the Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. The talk is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Humanistic Studies Department. 
A performance of "The Laramie Project" will take place Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The show, per­formed by the department of film, television and theatre stu­dents, is running until Mar. 3. 
A blood drive will be held in Rolfs Sports Recreation Center from 9 a.m. to 3:30 
p.m. on Wednesday and Thursday. To sign up for a convenient time, call HecSports at (574) 631-6100. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band II and Jazz Combo will be per­forming at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. The event is free and sponsored by the Student Union Board. 
Karen Richman will give the lecture "Haitian Vodou: Arts, Culture and Religion" at 3 
p.m. Friday in the Snite Museum of Art. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 

Atlanta 66 I 51 Boston 34 I 31 Chicago 39 I 30 Denver 54 I 34 Houston 78 I 63 Los Angeles 60 I 52 Minneapolis 26 I 13 New York 39 I 34 Philadelphia 43 I 33 Phoenix 64 I 51 Seattle 53 I 31 St. Louis 49 I 35 Tampa 78 I 61 Washington 57 I 36 
Monday, February 21, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Variety of food choices offered 
By KATIE PERRY N<·ws Wri1cr 
Tlw latest Prinenton Hovinw rankings plaend Notrn Damn at No. 17 li1r best on-rampus li10d, partly lweausn of' thn variety in tho two dining halls' l'nndback­b<L<;Pd mnnu. 
Notre Damn meals tnnd to be 1:ommunal and social events. Whiln nngrossml in dinnertime conversation, students some­limns li1rgnt -or oven disregard -tlw nutritional contnnl of thoir dwsnn li10ds. 
"We tnnd to bn a market-driv­en organization, and as our stu­dnnL-; are <L<;king li1r morn nutri­tious foods wn arn ready and willing to provide thmn." diwdor of Notre Damn Food Services David Prnntkowski said. 
The widn rang11 of food options at tho dining halls provides stu­dnnts with wholnsome options, dnspitn tho availability of less than lwalthy foods such as FrPru:h fries, pizza and B11lgian walllns. 
"Wn bnlinvn that our monus inrludo a wido varioty of food ehoil:ns pn1pared by various moking nwthods to provido vari­nty for all typos of eating pat­t11rns." Prnntkowski said. "Ultimately tho ehoien is up to tlw consunwr -wo can only makn it available." 
Many studm1L-; praise tlw avail­ability of divnrsn foods, whieh incorporate both healthy and unhealthy options. 
"Tiw dining hall is good about making nutritious food avail­ahln," smior 1\mblyn !\lion said. 
"I am a vegan and I lind that I am still able to find plenty of hnalthy things to eat in the din­ing hall." 
At times, however, some foods are deceiving and thus mako sPim:ting th11 more healthful item a diflkult choke. For example, a blueberry muflin servod at South Dining I I all contains 540 calories and 25 grams of fat, where<L<; an i<:ed ehocolato cako donut has just 215 calorios and I 0 grams of' fat, according to the Notre Damn Food Serviens Web sito. 
For the past 11ve years. the Food Serviens Wnb site has pro­vidl1d a thorough database called the Nutritional Accounting Systom (N!\S) to help students diiTerentiate between healthy and unhealthy foods. The NAS, whi<:h contains the nutritional content of almost every item of food served in both North and South Dining llalls, sees "signifi­cant" student use, Prnntkowski said. 
Aeeording to the Food Serviens Web site, the NAS is currently being expanded to include all eampus rostaurants, induding the Heckers. Waddick's and the Bookstorn CalC. Currontly, these plaees do not supply nutritional information to their eustomors unless asked. 
The proposed expansion will be useful to the more than 90 percent of all Notre Dame stu­denL-; on the Flox-14 moal plan, who arn given 260 Flex Point-; to spond at campus eateries ouL<>ide of the dining halls per semestnr. 
According to Prentkowski, chain venues like Burger King, Sbarro, Subway and -Starbueks, in addition to the Huddle Mart and other non-retail f(Jod outlets, also present students with healthy and unhealthy meal options. 
"One thing to consider is that the standard menus of Burger King, Sbarro and Subway are not necessarily unhnalthy -all food has nutritional qualities," Prentkowski said. "It is more important to look at food con­sumption over a period of time, so it's okay to eat a Whopper now and then but balance it with less l~tt offerings too." 
Notro name manager of' nutri­tion and safety Jocie Antonelli said many stigmatized foods could have a place in a healthy diet as long as they aro not eaten in excess. 
"My philosophy has always been that no specific food is unhoalthy and that any food as the potential to fit into a bal­anced diet, it just depends on the choices the person makes on a regular basis," Antonelli said. 
Some food choices reflect the health-conscious nature of Notre Dame on thn whole. Students freqlllmtly opt fi:lf a 6-ineh turkey sandwich from Subway rather than a Double Whooper cheese­burger -2SO and 1060 calories, respectively, according to the restaurants' Web sites. 
"When looking at our lluddle brand restaurants each of them have significant traffic, but Subway eontinues to serve more people each day than the oth­ers," Prentkowski said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

Team places second at 




regional College Bowl 
By KAREN LANGLEY News Writer 
Thanks to a troupe of Keenan men, Notre Dame's a!:complish­ments in intercollngiate team competitions this past weekend were not limited to athletics. 
Chris Hammer, Troy Androli, Derek Jay and Tommy Gleason traveled to Indiana University­Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) to compete in the !\CUI Hegion 9 College Bowl Championships Friday and Saturday, placing second in a field of 11 teams from collnges throughout Indiana and Illinois. 
First-place honors went to the University of Indiana, who answered best questions rnlating to topics such as history, science, current events, literature and art. Notre Dame finished S-2 in thn preliminary round and went 2-2 in the double-elimination playoll' round, finishing runner-up and just ahead of Purdun. 
The University of Indiana will travel to Seattle in late April lilr the College Bowl National Championships. 
"We had been preparing lilr the tournament by practicing old questions, so we felt that we had a very good chance of' doing well." Hammer said. 
A College Bowl tournament eon­sists or eight-minute halves with toss-up questions. Tho first team to buzz in geL<> to answer. Correct answers result in the ehanee to answer a bonus question. 
"Most peoplo thorn wern smart enough to know most of' the matn­rial, so the big thing was having tho intuition to get it narly from littln duns," said Gleason. " 
llammnr, Androli, .lay, (;Ieason and law student Tommy Curtin earnnd tho right to rnpresent Notrn Dam1~ at the rngional tour­namnnt whnn thny placnd first in the eampus wide tnam eompnti­tion in January whiln eompnting undor the namn ".Jack Pinn Savages." Curtin did not attend thn regional tournamnnt in Indianapolis. 
"Obviously I'm a littln disap­pointnd that wn didn't win, but wn lost to a team that was probably bnttnr than us," Androli said. 
Both llammnr and 1\ndroli have Collnge Bowl nxperinncn. being mmnbnrs of thn rngional tourna­ment champion from two years ago. Thn two wnnt on to competn in tim national tournament that year, which was lwld in Philadelphia. 
Although winning llw regional tournamnnt is the only sum way to secure a lwrth at nationals, rngional winners aeeount for only 15 of the 16 sloL-;. Tlw 16th team is sdnetnd at random from th1~ 15 runnnr-up tnarns at tho rngional levnl. 
"We might get lul'ky and go to nationals," Hay said. "We're hop­ing wn can be that tnam." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, Febuary 21, 2005 
YOUR CATERING $0LUTIONlll 
BOX LUNCHES. PLATTERS. PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery charge per item. 
one o our omema e rene unsFREEBIES (SUBS & CLUBS ONLY) then smothered with onions. mayo, 
Awareness 
continued from page 1 
passive awareness, planners hope there will be more talk and less fear surrounding eating disorders on the Notre Dame cam­pus 
Throughout the week, table tents will be set up in the dining hall to give messages encouraging healthy eating. In the Huddle, cup labels will have information about eat­ing disorders with Internet addresses so students can gain more information if desired. 
Fitness affirmations will cover up the calorie counters on cardio machines at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center, so students ask themselves if they are exercising to burn calories or because it's a healthy thing to do, Staples said. 
"In the Eye of the Culture," a three­dimensional art project, will be on display in the entryway of Rolfs. One of the mes­sages of the display is to recognize beauty can be seen through many different filters, said Staples said. 
The Gender Relations department is hosting a panel discussion about eating dis­orders and recovery from them Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. "Do I Look Fat in This?," a lecture given by Jessica Weiner, eating disorder activist and author of "A Very Hungry Girl," will take place Wednesday at 9 p.m. in DeBartolo 
101. Weiner's lecture is considered the highlight of Eating Disorder Awareness Week. The lilm "Barbie Nation" will play on Wednesday, March 2 at 7:30 p.m. in DeBartolo 102. 
According to Staples, involvement with the University Counseling Center can range from a single visit to comprehensive treat­ment. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 

Weis 
continued from page 1 
Siegfried, Pasquerilla West, Keough, Welsh Family and tentatively Zahm and Cavunaugh. 
Siegfried senator James Leito and Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni, who unsuccessfully ran for Student Body President and Vice-President this year, originally proposed the coach's visits as part of their campaign platlorm. 
f leisler responded to an e-mail Tuesday to verify Weis' availability, Leito said. 
"[Leitol had come to us and indicated a big picture interest in doing this," Heisler said. "So we've been communicating with him tor the last week or ten days in terms of how to get this coordinated as best we could." 
The first part of Leito and Bongiovanni's plan proposed Weis meet with students in dorms and not at a larger venue such as the Joyce Center. 
"We thought this would be the best because it would be the most personal way for him to meet all the dorms," Leito said. 
The second part of the plan guaranteed visil'i with an outlined schedule. 
"Dorms usually take it upon themselves to invite the coach, have him come and talk like a regular academic speaker," Leito said. "But we knew that everybody was going to want [Weisr to come to their dorm, so we figured if we organized it from one central location, it would be a lot easier for the dorms and for the athletic department." 
While Weis' campus talks begin Monday, Leito said he and his running mate origi­nally planned to schedule the coach's visits closer to spring practice to gain support for the Blue/Gold game. 
But athletic officials demanded a sooner date, as spring practice anti other matters eventually will decrease the coach's avail­ability. 
"The good thing for [Weisj right now is that without his family being here on a reg­ular basis, he's got a lot of time," Heisler said. 
Leito and Bongiovanni will attend Tuesday's I fall President Council meeting to propose Weis' remaining schedule after this week's visits occur, Leito said. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Editors 
continued from page 1 
Landsberg will remain Controller, a position he attained in January when he first joined The Observer. A sophomore economics major from Farmington Hills, Mich., Landsberg lives off-cam­pus. Claire Kelley has been rehired as Photo Editor, a position she has held since May 2004. Kelley, a senior English and art history major from Columbus, Ohio who lives in Cavanaugh, will be staying at Notre Dame for a fifth year. 
The six new General Board appointments are: +Mike Gilloon, Sports Editor +Megan O'Neil, Saint Mary's Editor +Ram a Gottumukkala, Scene Editor +Graham Ebetsch, Graphics Editor +Nicholas Guerrieri, Ad Sales Manager +Jennifer Kenning, Ad Design Manager 

Gilloon, a sophomore from Stanford majoring in English and minoring in journalism, started work­ing with The Observer during the fall semester of his freshman year. The Omaha, Neb. native previ­ously covered Notre Dame volleyball, football recruit­ing and men's track. 
O'Neil is a junior major­ing in English literature and Spanish. Originally from La Crescenta, Calif., O'Neil lives in Holy Cross Hall and is currently working with the South Bend Tribune as an aca­demic intern. She joined The Observer during the fall semester of her fresh­man year. 
Gottumukkala, an O'Neill junior, is majoring in biology and film, televi­sion and theatre. The League City, Texas native began writing for the Scene section during the fall of his freshman year 
and  has  served  as  an  
assistant  scene  editor  
since last year.  

Ebetsch, a sophomore from Carroll, began work­ing for The Observer dur­ing the fall of his fresh­man year. The graphic design major is a native of Wheaton, Ill. 
Guerrierri, a St. Edward's Hall junior, is double majoring in mar­keting and film and televi­sion. The Canfield, Ohio native worked as a retail advertising intern at his hometown newspaper, the Youngstown Vindicator, last summer. 
Kenning, a McGlinn Hall junior, is majoring in graphic design and minor­ing in journalism. The Principia, Mo. native joined The Observer staff during the fall of her sophomore year. 


NDSP 
continued from page 1 
"crime of opportunity." 
Both alleged victims are fully cooperating with NDSP's investigation, Rakow said, but he was unsure if they would participate in fil­ing charges. NDSP expects to file within the week, Rakow said. 
The man is described as approximately 30 years old but could appear to be stu­dent age, Rakow said. He is of normal build, weighing approximately 165-170 lbs., wearing a black hooded sweatshirt and white jacket and riding a blue women's mountain bike, Rakow said. 
Rakow encouraged anyone with information about the suspect or wh'o may have had a similar experience to contact NDSP. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


Onion, lettuce. alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo. sliced lettuce, tomato, & our homemade Fresh sliced turkey breast, bacon. lettuce, tomato, & cucumber, Dijon mustard, oil &vinegar, and oregano. Italian dressing. mayo. (JJ's original turkey & bacon club) 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK !r 
SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 57 4.277.8500 ''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOliN'S!'' © 
@2005 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE INC. ALL RIGHTS RISIRVID. We Reserve The Right To Make Any Menu Changes. 
#16 CLUB LULUw 





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, Pebruary 21, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Charting Israel's borders begins 
.I EHUSAI.Jo:M -Primn Minister Ariel Sharon's Cabinet began charting Israel's futuro bordors in a historic sossion Sunday, giving final approval to a withdrawal from tlw (;aza Strip and a revised route for the West Bank S!~paration barrim that would movn lsraol's border dosnr to that of its orig­inal frontior. 
With the vote, an Israeli government agrond for the first time since capturing tho Wost Bank and Gaza in the 1967 Mideast war to dismantlo some of' tho dozons of .Jnwish sP.ttlornnnts it has built there. 
llowevnr, approving tho routn of the barri­nr. lsranl adml unilatnrally on what was to be a key issue in pnace talks with thn l'alnstinians. and signaled it will keep a chunk of prime West Bank land elos11 to .Jnrusalmn, induding two largo .Jewish settle­mont blocs. 
Former presidents promise aid 
I.AMPUUK. Indonnsia-Former prnsidents Bush and Clinton travnlnd Sunday to ground zero or tsunami devastation where they described the destruction as unimaginabiP. and promisnd survivors who begged for shP-1­tnr that morn lwlp would conw. 
On the socond day of' their rnlinf mission to tlw rngion, tho two former leaders flow in 
U.S. military lwlkoptnrs from the provineial capital Banda Acnh ovor a barron landscape that was once a patchwork of rice paddins, to tlw viii ago of Lampuuk. where the sole struc­tun~ loll standing is a large white mosque. 
Tlw villagn had 6,500 inhabitants bnfore llw lltH~. 2h disaster. Only 700 n~main. ''I've rwvnr snm1 anything liko this in my entirn lifo. Evnr," Bush said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Actress Sandra Lee dead at age 63 
LOS AN<;ELES -Actrnss Sandra Dee, the blond beauty who atlractnd a large teen audience in the )I)(,Os with films such as "(;idgot" and "Tammy and the Doctor" and had a lwadlined marriage to pop singer Bobby Darin, died Sunday. Slw was 63. 
Doe diod at 5:57 a.m. at the Los Hobles llospital & Medieal Center in Thousand Oaks, said Cynthia Mead, nursing supervisor. 
Slw died of romplieations from kidney dis­nasn allnr nearly two weeks in the hospital, said Stnvn Blaunnr, a longtime family t'rinnd who roprns1mts Darin's estato. Blauner said Don had IHlnn on dialysis for about four ynars. 
"She didn't have a bad bone in her body," ho told The Associated Press in a phone interview. 

CNN Headline News alters network 
NEW YOHK-For a network that has built its reputation on predictability, CNN llnadline Nnws is undr.rgoing some dramatic changns on Monday. 
The rwtwork will dobut a now prime-time lineup that dispenses with its usual continu­ous "wlwnl" of news. Like all-news radio sta­tions, llnadline News has run half-hour newscasts throughout the day and evnning for its enlin~ 23-year history. 
The nnw lineup ineludes an hour-long nntortainnwnt program, a logal talk show with Nancy c;race as host and an hour-long rwwseast at !J p.m. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Meth devastating lives and families 
VINCENNES-When Troy Mc~Ciure hit bot­tom, he was living out of a barn with his wife and two children. lin had lost his horne, his business and many or his friends. 
But he still had his rnnth cooker and was aecomplishnd at manufacturing "poor man's coeainn." 
"I used to work so hard at getting high," said McClure, who is now well into recovery aftt~r serving three years in a stato prison for crimes related to his mnthamphntaminP. habit. "And I had nothing. I was losing evP-ry­thing." 
CoMPILED FROM TI·IE OBSERVER'S wrRE SERVICES page 5 
BELGIUM 

Bush aims to mend ties in Europe 
Seeking to repair relations, Bush tells Europe 'no power on earth will ever divide us' 
Associated Press 
BIWSSELS -President Bush sought to repair rocky relations with Europe on Sunday, saying "no power on earth will ever divide us." I le urged alliP-s to move beyond dif'ferences over Iraq in the interest of' Midnast peaee. 
"As past debates fade and great duties become clear, let us begin a new era of' trans-Atlantic unity," Bush will say in a speech on Monday. Appealing for aid for Iraq, he urges the world's democracies "to give tangible political, eco­nomic and security assis­tance to the world's newnst democracy." 
Excerpts of his address wnrn releasod on his arrival here. 
I loping to set a more con­ciliatory tone for his sneond term, Bush will meet over five days with some of his toughest critics: French President Jacques Chirac and German Chancellor Ge1rhard Schroeder, both of whom fiercely opposed the 
U.S. led invasion. 
Bush also will see Hussian President Vladimir J>utin, who has alarmed the West with Moscow's retreat from democraey. 
Monday's speech, the main address of his trip, is a conciliatory message aimed at citizens across American alliance is essen­"no European complicity" prefers asking the U.N. Europe, where Bush is tial for security and global in a U.S.-dP.signed world Nations Soeurily Council to widely disliked. trade and offers of model of order. punish Tehran. 
"Today, America and freedom for the rest of the Brussels police readied liard feelings linger from Europe face a moment of world. 2,500 officnrs -1,000 Bush's opposition to tho consequem~c and opportu­"In all these ways, our more than the usual num­Kyoto dimato dmnge treaty nity," the president will say. strong friendship is essen­ber for tho three or four and the International "Together we can once tial to peace and prosperity summit meetings that bring Criminal Court. again set history on a hope­across the globo -and no European Union leaders to Bush expresses support ful course -away from temporary debate, no pass­the Belgian capital every for Europe's democratic poverty and despair and ing disagreement of gov­year. unity in his speech and says toward development and ernments, no power on While senking to move Washington supports a the dignity of self-rule ... earth will ever divide us," past old divisions, Bush and strong Europe. lie also says away from resentment and Bush will say. European loaders still face Washington shares violence and toward justice "Our greatest opportunity major differences. Europe's concern about and the peaceful settlnment and our immediate goal is Washington opposes global poverty. of differences." peace in the Middle East" Europe's plans to lift a 15-"By bringing progress 
Bush's visit was intended the president will say. year-old arms embargo and hope to nations in to soothe allies frustrated An alliance or 88 environ­against China. Bush has need, we can improve that their views on issues mental, human rights, been cool toward Europe's many lives, and lift up fail­from Iraq to global warm­peace and other groups negotiations to persuade ing states and remove tlw ing were of'ten ignored by planned two days or Iran to abandon its suspect­causes and sanctuaries of the WhitP. Ilouse. Bush said protests in Brussels, begin­ed nuclear weapons pro­terror," the presidtmt will that the European-ning Monday, to demand gram. The White House say. 

New effort to preserve Malcohn X legacy 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -lie was one of the most charismatic figures in the civil rights movement and also one of its most feared, a former convict who abandoned his "slavemaster name," energized the Nation of Islam and mot a violP.nt end at 39. 
Four decades after his death, Malcolm X has inspirnd another movement -one aimed at re­examining and preserving his lega­cy. 
Loading the way are Malcolm X's daughters, who want to convince people he was a eham pion of human rights and are converting 
the Audubon Ballroom in upper Manhattan -the scene of his assassination on Feb. 21, 1965­into a history center that would eat­alogue his life and work. 
"It's our responsibility to make sure that we do preserve and docu­ment our history to empower future generations," said Ilyasah Shabazz, the third of six daughters born to Malcolm X and wife Betty Shabazz. 
On Monday, the Audubon will be the site of a commemorative event on the anniversary of Malcolm X's death. 
The official opening of' the Malcolm X and Dr. Betty Shabazz Memorial and Education Center at tho Audubon is slated for May 19, on what would have been his ROth birthday. 
llis life has defied easy definition. 
The son of a preaeher who was killed after being threatened by tlw Ku Klux Klan, Malcolm Little was arrested for robbery in 1946 and spent six years in prison. 
lin P.merged as a f'inry Nation of Islam minister with a new nanw and a message that blacks should east off white oppression "by any means necessary." 
lie propelled the Nation of' Islam from a 500-mernber sect into a politkal and religious organization with 30,000 members by 1%3. 
• 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 21, 2005 
Nutrition 
continued from page 1 
Freshman Regina Gesicki agrees that a freshman year weight gain is not exclusive to Notre Dame. 
"I think the freshman 15 is an issue anywhere," Gesicki said. "Grappling with weight gain is almost inevitable when one is introduced to a com­pletely new environment, rou­tine or group of people." 
But while weight gain is something that remains salient on the minds of freshmen, the majority of students do not allow it to consume their lives. 
"Most people want to be healthy and in shape, especial­ly when breaks roll around, but the freshman 15 doesn't seem to make most people really weight-obsessed as far as I can tell." Tavarez said. 
Disordered eating 
While social and educational pressures may subject some students to the freshman 15, others are able to adjust to the collegiate lifestyle and alter their nutrition and exercise regimes accordingly. 
"ND is very health-conscious, however sometimes I feel stu­dents become obsessed with eating healthy and exercising," Gesicki said. 
The Notre Dame community tends to embrace its athletic nature -75 percent of this year's freshman class partici­pated in a varsity athletic sport. Indeed, a much smaller proportion of these students continue playing at this level for Notre Dame. The displace­ment of an athletic source presents incoming freshman with a struggle to become more self-motivated in regards to diet and exercise. 
"I was used to being forced to exercise because of sports in high school, and it's tough to make myself get out and run or something here, so I joined Bengal Bouts," fresh­man J.J. Rees said. 
But to junior Ian Grant, the problem of athletic readjust­ment may have a serious health-related consequence. 
"Some people get to college and stop being active; others manage to stay in shape," Grant said. "II' anything, the only problem I could see would be overcompensation for a lit­tle weight gain, resulting in 

compulsive exercis­ing." 
Grant, too, sees a danger in Notre Dame's pervasive ath­leticism. 
"Compulsive exercis­ing seems to be more of a problem than unhealthy eating," Grant said. "I don't think there are too many places one could find where a knife fight is more likely to break out over a ellip­tical machine than at a party." 
According to Gesicki, the struggle of some students to evade the freshman 15 trans­lates into a unhealthy fear of weight gain, which may lead to dis­ordered eating habits. 
Gesicki cited the competitive mindset of students as an under­lying cause for eating disorders at Notre Dame. 
"The population is a group of high-achieving, in-control stu­dents and I feel the pressure that comes from competing academically can definitely transfer into competing in the dining hall and at the gym," Gesicki said. 
According to a 2004 study conducted by Students Against Destructive Decisions, up to 4 percent of all female college students nationwide suffer from eating disorders in the face of mounting pressures, like a developed phobia of weight gain. Consequently, the University pro­vides students 

HOLY 

CROSS 
COI.LEGE 
HALL DIRECTOR NEEDED AT HOLY CROSS COLLEGE MEN'S HALL 
GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
IF INTERESTED CONTACT RESLIFE@HCC-ND.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION 

esteem, identity, relationships [and/or] expression of feel­ings." 
University resources 
In order to help students cope with the necessary nutri­tional adjustments of college life, the University provides a comprehensive network of tools and resources to assist students in making healthy choices regarding diet and exercise. 
As part of the mandatory first-year physical education requirement, all freshmen are required to complete two rota­tions of Contemporary Topics for College Students. 
The main goal 
of the course, as you need to stay healthy and be able to exercise regularly," freshman Anita Lyons said. "I haven't really had any experi­ence with the dieticians but I think that the enormous range of healthy options the dining hall offers allow everyone to eat well no matter what they like." 
Others, however, think the University can do more. 
"I think the University should sponsor some speakers or expand educational pro­grams like Contemporary Topics to deal more with disor­dered eating and make people understand that it is not healthy," Gesicki said. 
To help reinforce concepts of healthy eating habits and call attention to the issue of disor­dered eating, student govern­ment is sponsoring a series of events that span throughout this week. 
Jessica Weiner, author of the book "Hungry Girl," will speak Wednesday and discuss how she has helped thousands of people cope with issues of self­esteem that have the potential to spur eating disorders. 
According to Grant, no mat­ter how many tools and resources are provided, the day-to-day responsibility of nutrition will ultimately remain in the hands of the stu­dents. 
"People will eat what they want," Grant said. "If we don't know by now what's generally good and what's generally bad for us, then we have other problems." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 


Poker Cbips from $4.95;.so Texas Hnlnom from $199.97 Poker Tables from $299.00 

Rentals Available 
Large 
Seledion 
of Game 
Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 

SOS10 St. Rd. 933N • South Bend 
574-272-1617 

with specialized resources to help counsel, assist  "I feel students become obsessed  outlined by the physical educa­tion department's  
and  treat  stu­ with eating healthy  Web site, is "to  
dents who strug­gle with  and exercising.''  aid the student in transition from  
unhealthy eating  high  school  to  
patterns.  Regina Gesicki  university  life  
Notre  Dame  freshman  issues."  
eating disorder  Although  the  
specialist Valerie  course  covers  

Staples provides individual material ranging from time and group counseling for these management to substance students. abuse, the majority of class 
"The goals of counseling are periods involve some form of to assist a client to stabilize instruction on healthy eating [his] eating patterns, confront habits. In one sample sched­fears about food and weight, ule, this subject was covered 
challenge cognitions, develop a in five of 18 meetings. healthier body image and to Among the topics taught in explore underlying issues that these nutrition-based sessions drive lhisl behaviors," Staples were determining appropriate said. "These could include self portion size, establishing healthy diet and exercise regimes and eluding eating disorders. 
Students may also see Antonelli should their nutri­tional concerns go beyond those emphasized in the Physical Education require­ment. Aside from maintaining nutritional programs, attend­ing administrative meetings to address nutritional trends and ensuring food safety, Antonelli works closely with students to provide dietary insight. 
"My daily schedule is usually driven by appointments with students, nutritionally analyz­ing an individual's dietary records and compiling sugges­tions to help them achieve their personal health goals," Antonelli said. 
Antonelli is also available to lead customized talks for resi­dence halls or campus groups on a variety of topics, includ­ing the freshman 15, vegetari­anism and eating disorders, according to the Notre Dame Food Services Web site. 
Keeping campus healthy 
Between mandatory health courses, nutritional informa­tion made available by food services and diet and eating disorder counselors on-hand, the University has mounted a multi-faceted defense against poor eating habits which has proven sufficient for some stu­dents. 
"Contemporary Topics is really helpful in learning what 


Evenings of Prayer from Around the World 
Experience authentic prayerand meditation as part ofa series exploring the beliefandpractices ofthe world'sgreat faith traditions. 


JEWISH PRAYER 
Rabbi Steven Leapman, Temple Beth-El Wednesday. February 23 6:30pm 330 Coleman-Morse 
Sponsored by: Campus 1'1/Jlistry International Student Services lkActivities Graduate Student Uniotl 
-~1 
l
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS I 

Monday, February 21, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

10,785.22 +30.96
Jones ft. 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,217 126 ··a-141.· I 545 53I 008
v ' , ' 
AMEX 1.501.57 +3.80 NASDAQ 2,058.62 -2.72 NYSE 7,287.47 +14.97 S&PSOO 1,201.59 +0.84 NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,660.12 +77.40 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,057.20 -0.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ) -0.32 -0.12 37.35 INTEL CORP (INTC) + 1.65 +0.39 24.02 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0,66 -0.17 25.48 SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW) +0.24 +0.01 4.16 CISCO SYS INC (SUNW) -0.86 -0.15 17.30 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND + 1.55 +0.71 46.44 I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.79 +0.75 42.60 5-YEAR NOTE +2.07 +0.78 38.55 3-MONTH BILL +0.99 +0.25 25.52 
Commodttles 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.79 49.0 I GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -0.20 428.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.00 84.98 
Excha Rates 
YEN 105.6700 EURO 0.7656 POUND 0.5278 CANADIAN$ 1.2315 




IN BRIEF 
Jury rules against Medtronic 
MINNHAPOLIS -A Delaware jury ruled on J.'riday that some Medtronie stents violate a Guidant patnnt. 
Fridlny-basnd Medtronie, Inc., said the jury found that somn of its stnnts, induding the S7 and Driver stnnts, violate patnnts held by the AC:S subsidiary of Guidant Corp., based in Indianapolis . 

Mmltronk still claims that the patents are unnnforcnable and said a hearing on that issun is upcoming in U.S. District Court in l>nlawarn. Medtronic said a date has not been sol. 
Mndtronic said tlw jury verdict does not pre­eludo it from soiling coronary stents in the Unitml Statns and has no jurisdiction on its ovnrseas stnnt salns. 
It also said the vnrdiet would have no "immndiatn impact" on its Endeavor drug­coated stnnt outsidn the United States. Endeavor is awaiting European approval. 
A Guidant spoknsman did not immediately return a phone message seeking comment. 

On the Nnw York Stock Exchange, Medtronic sharns dropped 26 cents to close at $56, and Guidant shares rosn 8 cents to dose at $73.18. 
Former Qwest executive indicted 
I>I·:NVI.:H -Fedoral prosecutors on Friday accused a former Qwest Communications lntnrnational executive of illegally eolleeting $2.9 million by secretly cashing in on invest­mnnt opportunities at the expense of the com­pany and its sharnholdnrs. 
Tho indictment also said formor senior vice president Mare B. Wi1isberg kept Qwost. from of'fnring others a ehanee to invest in initial public: offerings and concealed the extent of his pnrsonal investmnnts. 
Weishnrg, 47, surrendered to the FBI later Friday and was nseorted to eourt in handcufTs. lin was rnlnased on $1 million bond and had no comment for reporters, but hfl said in a writtfm statement that he believed he been "singularly targeted by the government." 
"I look forward to dearing my good name when the facts of this ease eo me. out in court," he said. 
lin planned to entnr a plea next week. 

Calls for federal regulation grow 
Data retailer scandals widen making half a million vulnerable to identity theft 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -When 
word first emerged this 
week that. scammers had 
illegally obtained detailed 
dossiers on 35,000 people 
by posing as legitimate cus­
tomers of ChoicePoint Inc., 
the data-brokering compa­
ny portrayed it as a rela­
tively minor criminal ease, 
limited to Calif'orn ia. 
But by week's end, it was shaping up to be a full­blown scandal with as many as a half million peo­ple nationwide potentially vulnerable to identity thef't. 
Outraged, attorneys gen­nral from 19 states, eon­sumer advocates and secu­rity experts wore all demanding federal over­sight of a lightly regulated industry that gathers and sells personal data about nearly every adult Ameriean. 
On Friday, the Los Angeles task force in charge of the criminal investigation confirmed that at least 700 people had their identities stolen dur­ing the year-long seam by still unknown eon-artists who had. signed up as dients ol' ChokePoint. 

The task foree leader, sheriff's lieutenant Hobert Costa, said the number of people vulnerable to identi­ty theft in the case could reach 500,000. operation. drug testing for employers Ponemon, who runs a 
That's a mueh higher He pleaded no eontest and sells background­rnsearch firm in Tucson, number than the latest esti­and did not agree to help . checking software at Sam's Ariz., dedicated to privacy mate acknowledged by authorities in the probe. Club. management in business ChokePoint, which belated­"We were vietimized by But ChoicePoint and and government. ly sent warning letters to a some extremely well organ­other privately owned "People ought to be total of 145,000 people in ized criminals," ChoieePoint aggregators of personal st~tn~ing in lines protesting various states after politi­spokesman Chuck Jones information operate with thts. cians across the country said. virtually no federal over­Word of thn idnntity theft joined a growing demand An Alpharetta, Ga.-based sight, and crities say the ease got out af'tor for tighter federal regula­spinoff from the credit­eompanies haven't done ChoieoPoint sent warning tions. reporting giant Equifax, enough to safeguard its letters to people in 
The volume of data eom­ChoicePoint maintains information-rieh databases. California -tho only state promiscd was so huge that databases that hold 19 bil­"There's a serious prob­with a law rnquiring disdo­deputies are almost certain lion Soeial Security num­lem that we as a nation sure of sueh sneurity that a 41-year-old Nigerian bers, eredit and medical don't seem to grasp -that breaches to people whose man sentenced Thursday to histories, motor vehicle reg­the public is at risk when­identities are thrnatened. 16 months in jail in the istrations, job applications, ever organizations collect But Choicel'oint said it scam did not act alone. lawsuits, criminal files, pro­massive amounts of infor­discovered tlw breach in 
Tho man, Olatunji fessional licenses and other mation about us and they October, when tho Los Oluwatosin, was arrested pieces of sensitive informa­don't take extraordinary Angeles County Sheriff's when ChoicePoint faxed tion. precautions to ensure that Department began invnst.i­him some paperwork at a ChoicePoint also owns a that information is protect­gating one case of idnntity Kinko's store in a sting DNA analysis lab, facilitates ed," said Dr. Larry theft. 



United targets fall bankruptcy exit 
some terms for UAL Corp.'s United, Hepko, managing director at J.P. 
Associated Press 
including reducing interest rates, Morgan Chase. 

ClllCAGO -United Airlines has waiving the January monthly earn­But United still is confrontnd with pushed back its targeted exit from ings benchmark that it missed and daunting challenges in ordor to bankruptcy from· this summer until lowering its minimum eash require­emerge from Chaptor 11, which it fall, ensuring that its complex ment to $600 million from $750 mil­entered in December 2002 with restructuring will now last close to lion. expeetations of an 18-rnonth restruc­three years -twiee as long as antici-The improved terms represent a turing. pated. · vote of confidenee for United even Tho Elk Grove Village, 111.-bascd 
The latest delay was formally though it continues to be unprof­carrier has so far been unable to get acknowledged Friday when a U.S. itable after 26 months in bankruptcy, two of its biggest unions til agrne to bankruptcy court judge approved an reporting a widened fourth-quarter long-term, lower-cost contracts and agreement between United and its loss of $664 million and a $1.6 billion risks labor turmoil if it has its own lenders that extends its temporary defieit for 2004. terms imposed in court. The ground financing by three months until Sept. "The changes to the financing workers' contraet expires on April 11 
30. agreement reflect our belief that and the mechanics' on May :~1. 
The new loan from J.P. Morgan United has made significant progress A May 11 trial looms on its plan to Chase & Co., Citigroup lne., CIT to date in lowering its costs and exe­eliminate traditional pensions unless. Group Jnc. and GE Capital eases euting on its business plan," said Bill consensual deals are worked out. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, February 21, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
thr lntkpendnrt, Daily NewSJUtper Snvin.g Nom DRme And Sitint Mtti'J's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lazar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BusiNESs MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR! Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDimR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
{574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe· University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nm governed by policies ofthe adrninisrrarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the ·views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewp9int space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob~rvtt (USPS 599 24000) is pubtished Monday through Friday ~cept dudng exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observ~r is $100 for one academic year; S55 fur one semester. 
The Ob~rvtr is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining H~ll Send address c:onectiom. to: 
Nom· Dame. IN 46;.56-0779 The Observer 
Ptriodic.al posrage paid .1r Norre Dame P.O. Bo> 779 arulaJdidonal mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notte Dame, IN 46556..0779 
The OIJSttVCr is a member ofthe ~x:iatd Press. All reproduction rights are rocrvcd. 

John Galt is victorious again 
Either you get the title's reference or you don't. To those asking themselves, "Who is John Galt?" you're already on the right track. Rather than keeping everyone in suspense or losing casual readers, I'll explain-John Galt is the mystery figure of Bill Ayn Rand's culminating Rinner work "Atlas Shrugged," which offers a fictional A Voice of account of Western Reason society's downfall at the hands of looters (government regula­tors, free riders, university professors) who persecute the truly accomplished pro­ducers (a few dozen rogue capitalists whose unhindered profit motive is mankind's last hope for redemption). 
Rand's philosophical school of "Objectivism," a form of romantic libertar­ianism, is driven by the four notions of freedom, achievement, individualism and reason. In the appendix of "Atlas Shrugged," Rand champions "the concept of man as a heroic being, with his own happiness as the moral purpose of his life, with productive achievement as his noblest activity, and reason as his only absolute." 
Critics often regard Rand's axiomatic rejection of the welfare state as merely reactionary and devoid of scholarly con­cern, though a joint survey by the library of Congress and the Book of the Month Club found "Atlas Shrugged" the "second most influential book for Americans today" after the Bible. Granted, Hillary Clinton's "Living History" was not yet pub­lished at the time of the survey. 
Today, Rand would likely feel alienated from both major political parties, as Democrats advocate stiffer punishments for the most productive and Republicans promise the era of big government is, well ... hopefully on its last leg. Nevertheless, one recent bill to pass both the House and Senate would give Rand's fictional heroes Howard Roark, Dagny Taggart and John Galt reason to celebrate. 
The Class Action Fairness Act, signed by President George W. Bush on Friday, strikes a devastating blow to the mass liti­gation industry, whose success hinges on the ability of trial lawyers to force big busi­ness into enormous settlements. Manhattan Institute scholar Walter Olsen explains when lawyers search for jackpot cases, such as the $246 billion tobacco set­tlement, the established rule oflaw stands as only a minor nuisance for the few lawyers who profi1 from massive redistrib­utions of wealth. 
The previously unbounded success of the class action industry has been fueled by the ability of lawyers to file lawsuits in virtually any state court, many serving as magnets that invariably favor the plain­tiff. Such assured losses for business force settle­ments to the tune of · millions or billions of dollars, regardless of each case's individual merit. A number of claims eventually turn out to be based on junk science or fabricated damages, such as Sen. John Edwards' later dis­proved claim that doc­tors cause cerebral· palsy by waiting too long to perform caesarean sec­tions. When the cost of defending themselves against faulty claims is high and the chances of winning so low, businesses settle early to avoid incurring even greater losses. 
The new bill will divert the largest, multi-state class actions from state courts to the federal level, where judges typically display greater impartiality and less knee­jerk anti-business populism. Presumably, the class action engine will decelerate, at least until trial lawyers discover a more efficient means of siphoning off hefty fees that often leave individual class members with milliscule settlements. In the instance of one consumer class action suit, Martinez v. Allstate/Sendejo v. Farmers, the average cash payment to each plaintiff was $5.75, while the class counsel received over $11 million in fees. 
The matter of attorney compensation rates remains to be addressed through legislation, but the climate for small busi­nesses dreaming to be large and large businesses hoping to continue their suc­cess has vastly improved. Class actions serve the important purpose of curbing the dangerous and damaging behavior of consumer-good producers, fmancial firms and medical practitioners, but allowing lawyers free rein to pick and choose sym­pathetic juries or judges to overcorrect for whatever maladies these firms may cause. 
Massachusetts Rep. Edward Markey challenged the rationale ofthe new bill, claiming that "today, Republican leaders in Washington have issued a new challenge-'Ask not what your country can do for you, but 
what you can do for your country club."' While the class war­fare mantra is old news for Democrat critics of big busi­ness, Markey fails to 
acknowledge the bill memly shifts the ben­
efit from the country . club's JDs to its MBAs, and allows the latter to 
create employment oppor­tunities without a climate of fear. 

Ayn Hand envisioned a future when regulatory hurdles would grow to such heights as to discourage the truly produc­tive from even competing in a marketplace that punishes innovation and ability. Her capitalist utopia (an oxymoron to some) may never bear fruition, but the spirit of objectivism can claim one minor victory this week. Hand's "Fountainhead" hero Howard Roark ultimately defends himself and his accomplishments before an unsympathetic court; the Class Action Fairness Act may allow lesser Howard Hoarks and John Gaits to avoid the courts entirely. 
Bill Rinner is a senior economics major. He can be reached at wrinner@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Celebrate alternate ways to be pro-life 
While reading Courtney Tawresey's Feb. 16 derisive consideration of the Vagina Monologues, I wondered if she had seen the performance. I wondered if, as a woman, she had ever been objectified, ever been abused, ever been belittled or disregarded. I respect her clear anti-abortion stance, but I question whether she is truly pro-life. She states if Notre Dame continues to permit the annual performance of the Vagina Monologues, it will lose its Catholic identity -the very thing that makes it special and unique in this world. She believes this would be a great loss. I disagree with her fear that this University will suffer. Those who suffer are the countless women who have been victimized by society -the liter­ally faceless women, the women (and children and men) trampled by wars and unrest and virtually ignored by those with the power to help. They are the victims of a "great loss." They have each lost life due to the systemat­ic discard of their human dignity. It is so much easier to focus on abortion as the only, or at least most important, pro-life issue. It is much harder to accept the harsh reali­ty that there are millions of lives in this world which a poster of a bible verse in front of a dining hall cannot save. I wholeheartedly belfeve Notre Dame needs the Vagina Monologues and needs Eve Ensler to speak. If I have ever seen a pro-life demonstration, it is the Vagina 
Monologues ­it.  a celebration of life and a call to respect  
Regina Gesicki freshman Lyons Hall Feb. 18  

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Kate Antonacci Justin Schuver Katie Perry Eric Retter Do awareness weeks really raise 
Tricia DeGroot Katie Seryak 

awareness on campus?
Viewpoint Scene Justin Spack Christie Boisen Graphics lllustrator 


Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 


www.ndsmcobserver:com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The years teach much which the days never knew.,, 
Ralph Waldo Emerson author 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, February 21, 2005 page 9 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Challenge militarized society 
The roln of thn univnrsity within sor.iety-if nothing nlsP -is to raise questions. As such, tlw tradnmark of a quality university mluca­lion is a student who is capable of both seeing and challnnging llw structures and assump­tions of our world. Scholars 
Michael

from AristotiP to 

Poffenberger

llunlington have had ideas 
about human nature and 
Say Why Not

llw ordnring of our soda! 
n·alily, and havn juxtaposed 
those ideas with their respective contexts to 
provide prescriptions for change. 
This mandaln holds nspedally true for a C1ltholie Univnr~ity such as Notre Dame, whil'h is-at least, in theory-ordained with a mission to spread the eountnr-eultural val­ues of the Cospnls. But this responsibility of the university is being saailieed hy its unwill­ingrwss to boldly t·.hallnnge the most rooted evils in our world. The dnarest example of this is Notre Damn's support l'or the institution of llw military. 
l~wn though the Catechism endorses only two approaches to violent t:onllict (tlw just war and padlist traditions). neither of whieh is followml in our country, tho connedions lwtWilen Nolrn Dame and llw military remain largely unquestioned. Wn arn homo to the largnst Naval HOTC program in tlw United Stalns. Our dnpartmenl of tmgineering rneoivns millions of dollars to eonduet rnsnareh for tho U.S. Dnpartnwnt of Defense. Tho CIA and corporations such as Haytheon and Loeklwml Martin, whose factories pump out the most heinous weapons of human his­tory. are invitnd to recruit freely on campus. Through thesn aetions, the University is not only sanctioning and rninl'orcing the centrality of unquestiorwd militarism in our society, but also saerilidng its intogrity as a plaen of ohjnctivn scholarship. Students with a vestnd intNest in thoso institutions are not frne to quoslion thmn without saerilking thoir own sueeoss as soldinrs, eorporatn prospects or ovon Notro Damn studnnts. 
Blwtorie to justify thosn connections is basod on lins. Tlw Unit<~d States military does not spread Catholie valuos around the world, and tho "Catholic patriot" --:-whilo an inspir­ing concept-is a misleading mvniker that is blinding us to roality. Our country has droppml bombs on 22 sovernign nations just sinee the conelusion of World War II, and oit.lwr eovortly or overtly invadnd 4(,. We are tho only eounlry to have over used an atomie bomb, tho most oxtrnmn example of civilian nondiscrimination. Wo support tnrrorist roginws, such as lsranl and Saudi Arabia. Our militarism oxtnnds to the marketplace, in which wo aro rnsponsiblo for more than 50 pnrcnnt of tho global arms trad1~, fueling and proliting from violenee nvnrywlwre in the world from dvil wars in West Africa to turf wars in the Bronx. So much spin and eon­
structed idnology has been inventnd to justify 
these realities that it has become dillicult to 
hold one's head above water enough to sec 
the needlessness of the resulting human suf­
l'ming. 

Don't get me wrong. I'm not a determinist, or anti-military or anti-American, whatever that means. But I'm calling the blutT. We are not pursuing a just global order. We are pur­suing pnreeived self-interest. And unless the pursuit of' self-interest and the preservation of a hegemonic global order at the expense of' others is a Catholic value, then we should be witnossing against our militarized soeiety in favor of true progress basnd on seeking peace and tho common good. In contrast, continuing to build up our military only guarantees that we will continue to rely on it. 
Ilistorieal confrontations ovnr this reality on campus have boon resisted by our administra­tion. The 10 students who blockml the entranee to a recruitment presentation by Dow Chmnieal during the Vietnam War-tho corporation responsible for producing the chemical weapons that have loll many. includ­ing my own father, with Agent Orange eaneer and worse -were expelled from the universi­ty. Similarly, a recent protest ol' Haytheon 's presence at a career !'air at Boston College left livo studnnts on academic probation. What would the response on our campus be like il' wo invitod a corporation who produces abor­tion needles and instruments to recruit from our student body? Why are Catholic values boing marginalized, and in pursuit of what? 
Wn have a responsibility to engage these questions. Can Christians -or any people ol' good will...,.. ever justily the taking up of arms? Is there a connict of identity for American Catholics? Should the military be so embedded in our schools? And is the modern nation state an order we should be support­ing? 
America has an unprecedented degree ol' global influence. The nntire global "self"' has been rel'ashioned in the image of our society. As sueh, ignoring the far-reaching conse­quences of our actions as a society and blind­ing oursolvos to the sutTering we have caused or in whieh we aro eomplarent strips tho humanity of not only the rest of the world but of ourselves as well. Thoughtless support for institutions that are dehumanizing-such as ono whose purpose it is to be the most efl'ec­tive killing maehinn in the world -clearly violates the sanctity of human life and sells short our potontial to erafl a hnalthier social order. 
Michael Poffenberger is a senior anthropolo­gy and peace studies major. 1/e can be reached at mpojJen@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
U-WIRE 

Healthy shouldn't just be a fad 
The race is on. The contestants 
toil furiously, !,'llt-wnmehingly and, 
for the most part, in plaee and 
against their own bodies. 
It's that timo again, when Valentine's 
Meagan

chocolate has 
Stephens

topped oil' our 
"winter coats," 
University of 

Spring Break is 
Oklahoma 

approaching and 
Oklahoma 

for tlulse rea­
Daily

sons, there is 
smoke billowing out of the cardio 
room all Iuston llull'man Center. 
Girls roll in little support ~-,rroups and study magazines full of perl'net bodies while they run a trnadmill belt. Guys strain at a 45-dn~-,rrnn angle with those iron, mannish hand cables. I have even witnessed a guy riding an elliptieal one leg at. a timf1. 
The same fervor lilr bodily por­feetion is rolleetnd in eating habits. For men, the goal is lnan muscu­larity. For women, it is to praetkal­ly disappear. And so these days, the Oklahoma Memorial Union Sbarros, in all of its buttnry, carb­laden goodness, languishes under warm lighLo; while hi\alth-con­sdous Chick-lil-A causes a stam­pede next door. 
But could this health enthusiasm ever have any real staying power? Sometimes it seems unless a pair or board shorts or a string bikini is terrorizing us, we are quito eon­tent to eat eookie dough for dinner (and by "we," I mean me). 
The charaeteristieally Ameriean all-or-nothing health approach may suffice for beach prep but beyond that oilers little morn than exercise burnout and killer crav­ings. Only three of 10 Americans exereiso regularly and four of 1 0 get no exorcise at all, aerording to the National Center for Health Statistics. 
If wo would view our bodies as long-term investments rather than temporary displays, we would not only look better longer, but wo would also live longer, healthier lives. 
Hegular exereise is a primary goal of the surgeon general's 2010 National Health Objectives. People who are couch potatoes are a lot more prone to high blood pres­sure, heart disease, diabetes, obn­sity. osteoporosis, colon cancer, 
breast ealH~er and depression. 
The top throe causos ol' death in America arn all dirndly linkPd to obesity-hPart disnase. typo two diabctns and cancer, and two­thirds of us arn mndit~ally obnsn. What is sad is that rathnr than sen obnsity l'or the h<Htlth risk that it is, our feel-good sodnty tnnds to shill the blame away fh11n the individ­ual and onto genntks. 
This lnads mo back to thn spring break ovPrhaul. Why resnrvn healthy choiros and an nxnrdsll rngimnn filr spodal m~easions'! Your body is yours lilr !iii\. Furthermoro, it.'s a heck ol' a lot oasinr to look good and l'undion well whnn you arn hnalthy. Consider t.hll following: 
Bluoborrins are tho sneond most anti-oxidant-rieh liwd thorP is, which can hnlp slow tho signs of' aging by blocking f'rnn radicals from damaging your enlls. 
Consuming thrno-linrrth sorvings of a low-fat dairy product nwry day spends up wnight loss. 
Bananas will hdp prnv<Hlt sorn musdes allnr pounding tho trnad­mill and wnighLo; due to their potass i urn. 
The omega-:~ fatty adds in salmon have boon proven to rom­bat deprnssion and lwart diseasn. 
Eating fiber (limnd in fruiL<;, vng­etables and whole grain) is filling, which helps prnvont ovenmting. Fibnr also combaL<; hnart disease. 
Eating spinach improves your memory. 
Green tea aceeleratns the nwtab­olism and is also rich in anti-oxi­danL<;. 
Ninnty percent of pnopln would lose more weight if tlwy would just get morn slenp, as mntabolism rate increases whnn one is well-rostnd. 
And if it helps, think of it like I do. She who naps ollnn runs mur.h and ran all'ord to nat loL<; of cookio dough. 
l11is column originally appeared in the Feb. 19 issue ofOklahoma Daily. the daily publication at the University ofOklahoma. 
The niews expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those (~{The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Monday, February 21, 2005 
THEATER REVIEW 
'Laram.ie' addresses hate c 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 

Taking a step inside Laramie, Wyo. in real life isn't something you'll necessarily remember. The town, which claims a population of just over 27,000, might seem like just another stopping point in the long trip across the plains of Wyoming. 
Taking a step inside "The Laramie Project", though, is certainly unforgettable. 
The play, written by Moises Kaufman, focuses on the aftermath of the murder of Matthew Shepherd, a 21-year-old homosexual student killed by two young Laramie residents in 1998. The murder was one of the most brutal anti-gay hate crimes to come to light in the United States, and it became a national symbol of intolerance. 
"The Laramie Project" explores the thoughts and feelings of Laramie residents, showing a picture of a town trying to cope with a hideously shocking incident and the sudden dark fame that came with it. 
Kaufman and fellow members of the Tectonic Theater Project traveled to Laramie to conduct over 200 interviews that were incorporated into the play. The final version contains statements from newscasters, policemen, Shepherd's friends and family and other people more or less connect­ed with Shepherd and the community of Laramie. 
The result is a play that makes a coherent whole out of a series of seemingly isolated speeches. The characters mostly address the audience and rarely each other, which makes the individual voices in the monologues often seem isolated and confused. 
However, the actors who perform the monologues drift in and out of a chorus that is the overwhelm­ing voice of the play. The community of Laramie as a whole, represented by the entire cast, expresses incomprehensible pain and anger through its attempt to understand how it could have bred the perpetrators of such a crime and how it can deal with these alienated members of its own family. The script requires little explicit interaction between characters, but as a result it requires exact coordination of the movements of the chorus and the stage and lighting cues. 
"Everyone is sort of dependent on each other," said Louis Jordan, a local actor who auditioned for the play on the recommendation of a Notre Dame professor. "The energies are so interconnected that 

it's almost like we are  
relating to each other."  
Director Anton Juan, a  
professor in the depart­ 
ment of film, television  
and theater, began work  
on the play three days  
after starting his job at  
Notre Dame in January.  
Juan only had five weeks  
to work with the cast  
members but was  
impressed by their ability  
to work so closely togeth­ 
er.  
"It's rare to find that  
with pick up actors,"  
Juan said. "I think they  
could become a company  
now."  
"The Laramie Project"  
may focus on the death of  
a young homosexual, but  
the performance by the  
department of film, tele­ 
VISion and theater  
emphasizes the theme of  
general hate crimes that  
runs through it. The  
murder of Shepherd is a  
symbol of a variety of  
hate crimes that are  
either explicit or implied throughout the show. The music behind the  This scene from "The laramie Project" depicts Shepherd's funeral.  a group of protesters, led by the  
action onstage empha­ 

sizes the way the incident ties into larger themes of up when the actors move into different roles. Set hate and humanity. Francisco Feliciano's Misa and costumes both make use of eye-catching mate­Mysterium and Mozart's Requiem, among other rials that seem to abstract the actors from the pieces, serve as a universal backdrop for a com­words that they speak. paratively small incident. "I think gauze works with memory," Juan said. 
The set design oddly seems to reflect the state in "It's lined, it reminds you of what is inside. It's very which the play is set. Skeletal trees, fences and cocoon-like, and wind-like at the same time." plain boxes can be seen as colorful and complex or The performance unquestionably benefits from 
incredibly stark depending· on the lighting and the the facilities in the Decio Mainstage Theater, which mood. The feeling might be familiar to the grass­allow for better effects than were ever possible in lands, fences and open sky that dominate much of Washington Hall. The trapped stage allows for a Wyoming. The versatility allows many scenes to beautiful moment when a bigoted preacher blend together in the same space. emerges onto the stage from glowing red light The costumes also help the chorus blend togeth­underneath. He is greeted by a movement of the 
er, as silver or black pants and shirts are dressed Requiem that is highly reminiscent of Mozart's Don Giovanni, an opera in which the devil descends into hell instead of climbing out of it. 
"The Laramie Project," like much of the art them," which has recently been drawing attention, risks unique moving into a controversial sphere by addressing "The the issue of homosexuality. A scene in which a through male character appears dressed like a dominatrix the DeB sporting the Nazi insignia might raise hackles, but Tickets it also provides a striking statement that would be ty and difficult to achieve through subtler means. 
"It serves a couple of different purposes," said Jordan, who performs the scene in the FTT per-
Left, "The Laramie Project" depicts an emergency room after a·bar fight. Right, a surgeon explains to audience members Matthew Shepherd's condition after he arrived at i Shepherd's murder, while also addressing the overall theme of hate crimes. 
Monday, February 21, 2005 
• 
RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer 

Fred Phelps, holding signs at Matthew 
"It's a parody of the whole idea of of making Nazis into fools. It also jux­high omotional scene before it. There's 
oint to take you out of that emotion t from moro of a distance." al, the play bonefits from the effort to 

a broad picture and not focus on the polilieal issue involved. 1g I'm glad Anton has donn is to makn it 
about hate crime than about homosexu­lr Mairead Case said. "The Laramie Project," especially the 10 chorus, might become too abstract for ~nee members. But the play is certainly 
and provides food for thought on multi-In thn tradition of plays that examine es and the mentality that surrounds 
Laramie Projeet" certainly achieves a tus. anlio Project" will be performed Tuesday 
nday and March 1 through March 3 at tolo Conter for the Performing Arts. $S for studnnts, $10 for seniors, facul­
and $12 for the general public. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
page 11 

Boss tribute band rocks Club 23 

By CLAIRE KELLEY Scene Writer 
Arter drawing a massive crowd earlier this month at Legends, the Bruce Springsteen tribute band, otherwise known as The Heroes We Thought We Ilad to Be, played for an equally enthusiastic and energetic audience Saturday at Club 23. . 
It was not difficult to see why the band draws such devoted fans. Each band member played with incredible passion -from the talented lead vocalist to the animated percussion duo. The band's dynamic demonstrated its devotion to the Boss and created an environment that made dancing easy. 
The band formed last fall with original members Paul Appleby, Reid Rector and Dan Block. However, it has recently expa.nded to a nine-piece band with a wide range of instruments. The band consists of Appleby on keyboard and lead vocals, Mark Coughlan on saxophone, Rector on guitar, Erling Wu-Bower on drums, Greg Ujda on bass, Megan Hackish on violin, Michael McNamara on tambourine and backup vocals, Block on maracas and backup vocals and Dan Watson on trumpet. 
The founding members of The Heroes. We Thought We Had to Be paused to answer a few questions in between sets Saturday. Thoroughly engrossed in their perform­ance, these band members seemed to walk a contentious line between their true selves and their alter egos. 
Q: Why do you love Bruce Springsteen? 
A: Paul: Because he is the most significant recording artist in the last 76 years. 
Mark: I'm the Clarence Clemmons he thought he had to be. 
Q: Why are you named "The Heroes We Thought We Had to Be?" 
A: Paul: It's a line from the song "Backstreets." Reid: But we don't actually play that song. Paul: Shh ... don't say that. We're working on it. 
Q: What sort of musical backgrounds do you have? 
A: Dan: We have a limited amount of talent, particularly the backup vocalists. 
Heid: But Paul is amazing. lie is probably the number one tenor in the school. lie is a music major, and he'll be appearing in the Opera Les Mammelles de tirese. 
Q: What challenges has your band faced'? 
A: Heid: We've had some technical difficulties. Our equipment is cheap because we're poor. Mark: Also some academic difficulties. 
Paul: We had some trouble at Legends with tho sound system. Our favorite place we played was Boat Club. 
Q: You seem to play the lesser-known Springsteen songs. Why don't you play the really popular hits? 
A: Paul: Most of them are swill. We don't go by tho 
charts... Dan: ... we go by what gets us in the heart. 
Q: Do you identify with Springsteen's working class New Jersey background that inspired so many of his songs? 
A: Reid: I think most of us in the band share many of his political views, and we support the idnals that have driven his music 
Q: What do you do to get ready to play the tambourine and maracas? 
A: Mike: I do some wrist and grip exercises. I practice tapping my toes. You just really need quick wrist action. 
Q: Which Springsteen album is your favorite and why? 
A: Reid: I don't think we can decide that as a group. I 
think the best is Born to Hun. Paul: I'd say Tunnel of Love. 
Q: Were you born to run? 

A: Mark: I have bad hips actually. 
Contact Claire Kelley at ckelley2@nd.edu 


CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 

Left, Reid Rector and Greg Ujda play at Club 23. Right, Paul Appleby and Mark Coughlan perform Springsteen songs. 
RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer 

~he hospital. The performance focuses on 
.._ 
r-------------------------------------------------­
page 12 Monday, February 21, 2005 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
HOCKEY 

Michigan's potent offense scores at will against Irish 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Spans Editor 
FORT WAYNE --Not even a change of venue could change Notre Dame's lack of success this brutal season. 
Notre Dame dropped a 9-2 contest against the sixth-ranked Wolverines Friday at the Allen County War Memorial Coliseum in Fort Wayne, then followed up that loss with a 6-3 d.efeat against Michigan in Ann Arbor, Mich., Saturday. 
With the losses, the Irish have now failed to win a game in their last 15 contests (they are 0-13-2 over those games). 
Friday, early Michigan goals in the first two periods doomed the Irish. Notre Dame allowed the first goal of the game just a minute into the first period, and then allowed Michigan a goal on the first shift of the second peri­od --just nine seconds into the frame --with the score 3-1 in favor of the Wolverines before that quick goal. 
"Both of those goals were essentially goals where you have to have control of the puck," Irish coach Dave Poulin said Friday night. "On one we had two chances to clear the puck, and then the other was basically right off the initial face off in the second period, so those were probably the two most-damag­ing goals of the game." 
A crowd of 7,948 fans came to see the Irish and Wolverines in 


BETH WERNET!The Observer Irish forward Matt Amado shoots the puck against Nebraska Omaha Feb. 5. Amado had two goals this weekend against Michigan. 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 

Team finishes 2nd at Big East for 3rd straight year 
Panthers amassed 160.5 points. 200-meter races. The Irish apart from the efforts of Gunn and a third-place effort in the By RYAN KIEFER Georgetown was third with 90 responded by cutting into this and Ogbuokiri. Maryann Erigha pentathlon. Meghan Horn threw Sports Writer points. early lead on the strength of turned in two second-place fin­her way to a second-place fmish 
It was clear early on this long sprinters Gunn and ishes in the 60-and 200-meter in the shot put, and Petra 
A disappointing trend contin­would be a two-team meet. Both Ogbuokiri. races. Stephanie Madia led the Dankova finished third in the ued for Notre Dame this week­the Irish and the Panthers had As the day progressed, the Irish distance runners with sec­long jump. end at the Big East Indoor successful qualifying heats, put­Irish figured to gain points in ond-place finishes in the mile The Irish will now shift their Championships, as the Irish fin­ting them in ideal position for the distance events, a perceived and the 3,000-meters. focus to finishing the indoor sea­ished in second place for the Sunday's finals. Pittsburgh came strength of the team. Perennial all-American Molly son on a high note. With the third straight year. through on the final day with The Panthers held the Irish in Huddle, hampered by a foot NCAA Indoor Championships 
With defending conference five individual event wins while check, though, using victories in injury sustained during the meet just three weeks away, the champion Miami moving to the the Irish managed only two. the 3,000 and 5,000 meters to cross country season, finished Irish want to put themselves in ACC, the Irish figured to be in Tiffany Gunn was the Big East propel themselves into the lead. second in the 5,000-meters in position to contend with the prime position to ascend to the champion in the 500 meters, The decisive blow was deliv­her first race this season. Sunni country's best. top spot this year. and Okechi Ogbuokiri was the ered in the field events where Olding also turned in a solid They will be in Boston next 
This was not to be, however, conference champion in the 400 the Irish were outscored 67.5 to third place effort in the 3,000-weekend to compete in the USA as the Irish were beaten by a meters. 42, including 28 to 8 in the two meters. Track and Field Indoor meet. deeper, well-rounded Pittsburgh Pittsburgh asserted itself early throwing events. Stacey Cowan led the Irish team. Notre Dame finished with in the meet as it placed four in Other Irish athletes turned in field athletes with a second­Contact Ryan Kiefer at 140 team points, while the the top 10 in both the 60-and several stellar performances place finish in the high jump rkiefer@nd.edu 
Fort Wayne, with the cheering sections seemingly even at the start. But as the game went on, the Michigan fans started to dominate the crowd noise, and for good reason. 
Michigan displayed its offen­sive talent early in the game, with freshman forward Kevin Porter making a nifty one-on­one move to get to the front of the net and wrist a shot past Cey just a minute into the game. 
A little more than three min­utes later, Michigan increased its lead to two goals on a power play with Matt llunwick, Brandon Rogers and Milan Gajic making a nifty tic-tac-toe pass­ing play that left Gajic with a wide-open net. 
The Irish would answer back three minutes later on another Michigan power play, Notre Dame's second shorthanded goal of the season. 
Jason Paige won the face-off in the Michigan zone back to T.J. Jindra. Jindra then gave the puck right back to Paige, who skated in toward Montoya. Montoya made the initial stop, but Paige continued with the puck and managed to slide it over the line before the Michigan defense could get back. 
Any good Irish vibes would be ruined by a defensive break­down at the 13:16 mark. On another Michigan power play, Jeff Tambellini received a pass near the blue line, and three Irish players went for the puck. 
Tambellini then made a simple pass down low to Chad Kolarik, who was stationed wide-open near the left-post and didn't miss from about 3 feet. 
Despite the defensive break­down, Notre Dame continued to press in the first period, and almost got another goal on a 2­on-1 late but Montoya was able to snufl" it out. The early goal in the second period killed any hopes of a comeback for the Irish. 
"You can't give up one in the opening shift. That's a face-off play, and you just can't let that happen," Poulin said. 
Michigan's Andrew Ebbett skated down the near-side boards, and made a perfect cross ice pass to Eric Nystrom near the left post, who wristed a shot past Cey before the goalie could move. Ebbett would score a goal of his own later in the period, and Notre Dame's Matt Amado answered to make the game 5-2, but that was as close as the Irish would get. 
Goals in the third period by Michael Woodford, T. J. I lensick (two) and Kolarik closed out the Michigan scoring. 
The Irish were much more competitive on Saturday, only down 3-2 going into the third period. But as has happened so often this season for the Irish, Notre Dame was outscored 3-1 in the final frame. 
Notre Dame's David Brown got the start in goal, making 32 saves in the loss. Montoya had an easy night, making 11 saves on 14 shots. 
Porter and Tambellini scored in the first period to give the Wolverines a lead after 20 min­utes of play, but the Irish retali­ated· with just 33 seconds into the second period on a goal by Jindra. 
David Moss answered for Michigan at the 14:37 mark of the period, but Notre Dame bounced right back with a goal by freshman Victor Oreskovich. It was the first goal of the season for the highly-touted forward, 
who was drafted by the Colorado Avalanche in the second round Contact Justin Schuver at of last year's NHL draft. jschuver@nd.edu 
Michigan took over in the third period, with Ebbett and Tambellini scoring goals to make the game 5-2 before Amado knocked home a late tally for the Irish. Moss scored an empty-net goal to seal the win for the Wolverines, who will more than likely face Notre Dame again in the first round of the CCllA play­offs in Ann Arbor. 
The Irish are off this weekend, then close out their regular sea­son with a home-and-home series against Michigan State March 4-5. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents pet character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

LOST AND FOUND  Office Help Needed at Kaplan. Eves/Wknd 272-4135  FoR RENT  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI­UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ROOM.TWO BATHS. HURRY 235­ 2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. 1­car garage,close to ND.$650/mo. Call317-815-1329.  If St. Paul were around today -he would be on the radio! www.SouthBendCatholicRadio.com  
- LOST: Clip-on earring, silver flower with light purple rhinestones. Lost on Sunday after 11 :45 mass between Basilica and Coleman Morse or between Coleman Morse and the circle. Reward. Call Lori 233·3436. WANTED Local alumnus looking for experi­enced babysitter. Call360-1617.  FoR SALE Oakhill corner unit w/detached garage. Avail.for sale in May. Interested call: 271-9739 OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm, 2 bath. For details fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. Save your grant money & buy a refurbished DELLcomputer. $100&up. 229-3333  DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5:7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS. SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234­2436 OR 574-315-5032.  7234 FOR MORE DETAIL.Great 6­7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm available NOW. Both Close to ND,W/0, on-site parking. NO Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic Year. Available June 1, 2005. Two(2) Bedrooms-2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System, Fully Furnished. Call 626-441-1275 or Salvaty @ earthlink.net  Room in nice house.Spa,gym,tan­ning & more. $475/mo. 229-3333 PERSONAL ]Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­6386  HAPPY BIRTHDAYNA!!! Stephen A. Smith is a no-talent hack. Period. Bruno's on Thursday. Awesome. I hate the NHL. Just another Manic Monday. The Atlanta Hawks-the NBA dunking school. There are 1 0 kinds of people in this world. Those who understand binary, and those who don't.  


Monday, February 21, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 .... 

S P R I N G 
DEBARTOlO 
PERFORMING ARTS Cfr;4TER
:TOLERANGE
AR1~Sfost 
..,,,, 

rg;JUNJV£RSITY OF HTIP://PfRFORMINGARTS,NO.EDU 
WNOTREDAME
RECO C1LIATI 
TWO WEEKS Of MUSIC, FILM, THEATRE, AND DISCUSSION 
·~· 

INSIOf./OUTSIDE: DEATH ROW IN wtlR(}S AIID IMAGES "OKLAHOMA rnY BDMBUIG: TWU fATHtRS &FORGIVENESS" "OKlAHOMA OTY IOMBING: FROM RAG£ TO Rf(OfiCIUAnOit" feiltlll»y 1G-13 oo ~•ntlkry's C_.Jtw~ Sund~ februrKy 'll. 5:30p.m., Wi!StWJngill NOO!e £mgRm, isc.tlhy, Math l,7:30plll.,IJ1lkffOW\!I CaMe fh11dt, feb!~ my 24-27 in O'Shoudmtisy Hoi, Unimity of NOlle !htne SllM Mtl{s (tilegt 54 i'llkooWOOtl, Souill &wd 
M11dl H lm 5Uoseph (oonly lMOJV, Mtlil\ Brund!, South Swl All AU. SCHOOl ASru\SlY ON THE DEATh PENAI.lY AND <AlliOLK •\, liATIOIW.llWTE ON lliE DEAnl PEIWJY: APAJtQDIS(U)SIOft ltiEOlOGY OH TAP: TilE OEAJH PfNAI.JY .·.·.. SOCIAtTEACHING Willi MR. IUD WB.Cll +··. Welildlv, Mold12, llidl, Slordeltln ltQ\gt, Sclinl tkJ'{s ·R~si~ntl/irtr « R«etldlllioo: AJmeywilh S~oot oo Omnh'~· i¥Wy, hldt~ 9llm., Minim (41!hdit J¥ Sdiod, ~llk4 ·· C!Meg,W~~ Abdl2, 4:15p.m~, H~ (Giller Wblum, Rnw~~rf, Febtu01y 23, I 0 pm., legends, Nona O~J~~e KEYitOTE AbDmS IV FORMER liOVER!HlR .. ~" Clll!ler !111 ltdl!'IIO!ioo~ Sludes, tfolrt O~JM 
"WAI.KJNG Willi SOM£0N£ ON DEAT!I ROW' • ,'"· GEORGE H. RYAll Of ILUNOIS .· . . lliHXOKWTED 
flusday, ftAiru•v 7( noon, Hoggt~ Pi!tl~», S11M /Mry's CclleQt '' <!EN< "thii W P•kSvuw of l!illi(e 4nd t ' \Wlestlev. ManM lit8p~m.Thllds~ ~th 3at 8p.mJiilloy, APlAYER Of HOP£ AHO WITH £55 AGAJMSi CAPITAl fUNISHMOO ·· >< &lll!dt 4df &p.m.Sut-Mwm S!It 3~.m. «!d 8p.m.~. f!.Jisday. Febru•y 24, lOp.m., ~ o.f, Na•e!hrrlt •~Jfl!!lli' Ml'lt(fthl tp.m:!llld 7~;mSdtB«ndtMclhtolle 
ARTSfest THEATRE ARTSfest FilM M U S I C 
The Laramie Project BROWNING CINEMA Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra by Moi~s Kaufman Ticketi $6, $5 focully/staff, with NO Choruses and Faculty Soloists Directed by Anton Juan $4 seniors, $3 all students leighton Concert Hall Decio Mainstage Theatre Saturday, February 26 ot 8 p.m.
ncket~ go on sole eoch Monday before the 
Mozart's Overture to Die ZauberHote
february 22 -March 3 screenings For more information obot~l these films, 
Beethoven's Triple Concerto
please visit http:/ /performingorls.nd.edu. 
The Loramie Project is port of Hoyden's Harmanicmesse Spring ArtsFelt: Tolerance and Reconciliation Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff,
TOURANCE AND RECONCIUATION IN FILM 
$4 seniors, $3 all students

Tickets $12, $10 faculty/staff, $10 seniors, $8 oil students Secrets & Ues (1996} 
Joan Uppincott-Organ Recital
Thursday, February 24 at 7 p m. 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall
Shylock 

Sunday, February 27 at 4 p.m. and 8 p.m.
wnHen and performed by Gareth Armstrong To Kill a Mockingbird (1962) 
Tickets $10, $8 faculty/staff,
leighton Concert Hall Thursday, February 24 at 10 p.m. 
$6 seniors, $3 oil students 

Wednesday, February 23 at 8 p.m. Gentleman's Agreement ( 1947)
Shylock is part of Spring ArtsFe5f: Emanuel Ax and Yefim Bronfman 
friday, February 25 ol 7 p.m.
Tolerance and Reconciliation Friday, March 18 at 8 p.m. Tickets $48, $38 foculty/stoff, TICkets $18, $16 focolty/staff, Philadelphia ( 1993) $36 ~niorl, $15 for allltudents Friday, February 25 at 10 p.m.
$14 seniors, $1 2 oil students 

Ladysmith Black Mambazo Dead Man Walking La Strada (1954) Sunday, Morch 20 at 8 p.m. by Tim Robbins PAC ClASSIC 1 00 Tickets: $35, $28 faculty/staff, Dnected by Siiri Scott and Joy Skehan Saturday, February 26 at 3 p.m. $26 seniors, $15 for oil 5lvdenl5 Philbin Studio Theatre 
The Pawnbroker ( 1964)
February 26-March 2 

Saturday, February 26 of 7 p.m. NDPRESENTS Dead Man Walking is port of Spring Artsfe51. Tole1once and Reconciliation The Mission (1986) 
National Acrobat1 of China 
Vatican's Top Films of All Time 
NO Presents: Live at the Morris
Tickets $12, $10 faculty/staff, 

Saturday, February 26 at 1 0 p m 
Monday, March 14 at 8 p m
$10 seniors, $8 all students This performance is at the Morris Performing Arb Center. Please call 574-23.5-9190 or visit www.morriscenter.org for tickets. 


More event information ovoiloble at http:/ /performingorts.nd.edu 
DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Call 574.631.2800 for tickets and more information 
Discounted tickets ore underwriHen by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. 
-


OUND THE NATION 
page 14 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's \VIR£ SERVICES Monday, February 21, 2005 
NASCAR
Women's College Basketball Big East Conference 
team Big East overall 
Rutgers 11-2 20·5 Connecticut 11-2 18·6 NOTRE DAME 11·3 23·4 Villanova 9·4 16·8 Boston College 8·5 17-7 St. John's 6·7 17-7 West Virginia 6·7 15·9 Seton Hall 6·7 14·10 Pittsburgh 4·9 12·12 Georgetown 4·9 9·15 Syracuse 3·11 11~14 Providence 0·13 1-23 
Men's College Basketball Big East Conference 
team Big East Overall 
Boston College 11·1 22,1 Connecticut 9-3 11-6 Pittsburgh 8·3 18•4 Sy~acuse 9·4 22-5 Georgetown 8-4 16-7 NOTRE DAME 8·5 16-7 Villanova 6-5 16·6 West Virginia 5-7 15·8 Seton Hall 3·8 11-11 St. John's 2·10 8·14. Rutgers 2·11 8-15 Providence 1-11 11-15 
Central College Hockey Association 
team conference overall 

ing day," a jubilant Gordon said. thought it was over," Gordon said. "1
Associated Press 
Michigan 21-3·2 24-H 

"Three, baby!" mean, he hadn't been anywhere all
I Ohio State 20·5·1 23·8•3 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -Jeff He is the fifth driver to win three or day long and all the sudden he came
Northern Michigan 13·7-4 16·H 

Gordon grabbed the lead from Dale more Daytona SOOs, joining Richard out of nowhere." 
Nebraska-Omaha 12·10·4 16·12·4 

Earnhardt Jr., then held off Kurt Petty (7), Cale Yarborough (4) and Gordon finally pulled alongside
I Bowling Green 12·9·3 15·114 
Busch and Earnhardt in extra laps to Bobby Allison and Dale Jarrett (3). Earnhardt and nosed ahead just
I Miami (Ohio) 11-12-3 15-15~4 
win his third Daytona 500 Sunday. Earnhardt, who struggled with han­moments before the 1Oth yellow flag 
Alaska Fairbanks 10·13-3 11-14•3 

One of the wildest finishes in the dling through most of the race and of the race froze the field.
Michigan Slate 9-21-3 14·14-4 

47-year history of NASCAR's biggest had not led a lap, suddenly dove to Scott Riggs wound up fourth; fol­
I lake Superior Stale 7·11·6 8~11~1 
I 
race saw four lead changes in the last the outside, just in front of Gordon lowed by Jimmie Johnson, Mark
I Ferris State 6·14·4 11-17-4 Western Michigan 6·16-2 11~1f2 
nine laps. Earnhardt, the defending and charged past Stewart to grab the Martin in his last Daytona 500 and NOTRE DAME 3·18·5 5·23·6 
champion, came from as far back as top spot on the 197th lap. the frustrated Stewart. 
[ 
30th to grab a late lead, only to watch "I was real, real happy," Earnhardt The victory was the 70th for 
~ . 
four-time series champion· Gordon said. ''I'm telling you, man, the car Gordon, who barely missed his fifth pass him seconds before a caution was way, way off. It was hard. It was series title last year. 
I 
flag waved with three laps to go. amazing the difference between the "I didn't know what the week had
I i Men's College Baseball 
I 
The race went three laps beyond car (at the end) and maybe 50 laps in store for us," Gordon said. "I knew the scheduled 200-lap distance, with before then. I mean, it was really we had a good car. We hadn't shown Gordon hanging on over two final fast." everything. I knew over 500 miles, 
I 
I Big East Conference 
team overall 

laps of green-flag racing to beat Fast enough to scare Gordon, but with that pit crew, that team, that Rutgers 2·0·0 
Busch by two car-lengths. not fast enough to beat him. hopefully some patience would pay NOTRE DAME 3·1·0 
"Oh, my goodness, what an amaz-"Let's not say I gave up, but I off there at the end." West Virginia 2·2·0 Villanova H·O Georgetown 1-2·0 Boston College 0·0·0 
IN BRIEF
Connecticut o-o-o Pittsburgh 0·0·0 St. John's 0·2·0 

Richardson wins 3-point Richardson but couldn't come said James, the Ford Senior Players Seton Hall 0-2·0 
contest following airball through. The leader after the first winner last year as a senior rookie. round with 17 points, Lenard needed "You feel, well, you might just have
DENVER -Phoenix's Quentin 
to make all five shots in the final gotten lucky once, but to get luckyRichardson shot an airball on his first 
rack, but missed the first one and fin­twice is stretching the imagination ashot, but closed out the final by mak­ished with 16 points. bit. So yeah, it feels good." 
ing nine straight to edge 
Philadelphia's Kyle Korver by one Former Ryder Cup captain Carlsen wins first title since 
point in the NBA's 3-point shooting wins ACE Group Classic 2002 in straight sets contest Saturday night. NAPLES, Fla. -Former European MEMPHIS, Tenn. -Unseeded Richardson appeared to have no Ryder Cup captain Mark James won Kenneth Carlsen used a steady serve 
around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

chance at catching Korver after miss­his second Champions Tour title in upsetting eighth-seeded Max ing his first four shots, but hit four of Sunday, birdieiiJ.g the final two holes Mirnyi Sunday for the Regions
NOTRE DAME at Connecticut, 7 p.m., ESPN 
five money balls -worth two points for a two-stroke victory over Hale Morgan Keegan Championships title, 
each -and had the strong finish to Irwin and Tom Wargo in The ACE his third ATP championship overall close with 19 points. Group Classic. and first since 2002. "In the first round, I felt like I was James closed with a 6-under 66 for Carlsen reached the final when 
Kansas at Oklahoma, 9 p.m., ESPN 

shooting a little too hard so the first a 13-under 203 total at The Club at Andy Roddick, the world's No. 3 play­shot (in the second round) I tried to TwinEagles. Wargo finished with a er, withdrew before their semifinal 
BOWLING 
62nd U.S. Open, 10 p.m., ESPN2 

shoot softer and it got a little too 66, and Irwin had a 68. Second­Saturday with a sprained left ankle. soft," Richardson said. "Then I got it round leader Mike McCullough (71) Fresh for the final, the 31-year-old going." tied for fourth at 10 under with Jerry Carlsen responded by becoming the
POKER 

Denver's Voshon Lenard, who has­Pate (68) and Mike Reid (68). first player over 30 to win on tour 
2004 World Series, 5 p.m., ESPN2 

n't played this season since tearing James earned $240,000 in the $1.6 since Andre Agassi at the ATP his Achilles' tendon in the season million event. Masters Series last August and pick­opener, had the final chance to pass "It's very satisfying to win again," ing up the $128,000 winner's check. 

Monday, February 21, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page IS 
MEN'S TENNIS 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles edge Olivet
Irish knock off Wildcats 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Spom Wrirt·r 
In thnir last match of the sea­son in Uw 1\ck Tennis Pavilion, tho Irish dosed down tlwir sea­son at home with authority. 
No. 23 Notre Damn (9-2) post­ed a !i-2 victory over No. 40 Northwnst1~rn (!i-4) Friday nigh1.. Tho team ovnreamn an narly 1-0 dnfkil aflnr dropping tho doublns point, rolling out to a quirk ;{-1 Inad. 
Sophomores I raekli Akhvled­iani, Stnphnn Bass and Barry King all won their singles nHttehm; in straight sots to give Notrn Dame an early lead in the match. Junior Patrick Buchanan bested Northwestern's Matt Christian in thrne sets, 6-2, 4-6 and 
6-3, lo clinch tho "/ think our depth was able to hit big match victory for proved to be a enough to keep tlw Irish. Schaeehterle baek
pretty critical

"It was particu­in the court and
factor."

larly rewarding open up opportu­mateh for Patrick," nities to spread Irish coach Bobby the court with
Bobby Bayliss 

Bayliss said. "A shorter, wider
Irish coach 

couple of years ago, in the Eck. we played a similar type of match, and Patrick was the last rnateh on and lost 7-6 in the third to tho same tnarn. We had been up 3-1 in that match so it was a special reward for Patrick to h1tve dneidnd tho match." 
The victory gave Bayliss his 600th earnnr victory and the Irish their third eonsncutive win at home. 
Senior captain Brent D'Amico and sophomore Hyan Keekley postnd the sole doubles victory for the Irish at the No. 1 slot, but Northwostern clinehnd the other two matches to gain the uppor hand early. 
"In the doubles, INorthwost­nrn I really was very aggres­sive," Bayliss said. "I thought their so1:ond team played nxtrmnnly well and as did thoir third team. I think that was a now combination for thorn at No. 3, and we weren't oxpncting that. 
"They served well, and we didn't quito return well enough to negate some of tho things they did." 
Tho Irish struck back quickly in tho singles matches. Akhvlodiani got the Irish on the board with a 6-4, 6-3 vietory against Northwestern's Adam Schanehtorle. 
"lraekli played at an extreme­
ly high level," 
Bayliss said. "lie 
balls. It was as 
good a mateh as I've seen lrackli play in a while." 
Bass and King also posted straight-sot wins for the Irish. Aftnr dropping to a 3-0 deficit in tho first set against Chuck Perrin, Bass bouneed back strongly, posting a 6-4. 6-2 vic­tory. King, battling a minor baek injury, defeated Christian Tnmplo 6-3, 6-0. 
"I Bass] didn't start well but he really did not lose his poise," Bayliss said. "You can't always play well. I have an expression that 'you can fake it until you make it.' You can at least pre­tend that you're under control 
in final home game ... 
and not let your opponent know that he's getting to you. 
"Barry King has a back injury that isn't serious but was painful that night. Barry l()ught oil' a lot of pain at the end and finishod off a very good Christian Tempke in a match that sooms easy, 6-3 and 6-0, but every point was contested and there worn rail ins of 1 0 and 15 balls each point." 
Once again, it was Notre Dame's team depth that allowed the team to fight back and win five of the six singles matches. Freshman Sheeva Parbu out­lasted Northwestern's Willy Lock in a match tiebreaker, win­ning 6-7, 7-6, 1-0 at the No. 4 slot. D'Amico lost a dose singles match 7-6, 7-6 to Tommy Hanus, ranked No. 114 in the country. 
"I think our depth proved to be a pretty critical factor," Bayliss said. "That's bailed us out all year. We match up in the middle and bottom parts of our lineup favorably with any team in the country. The Northwestern coach, Paul Torricolli, told me that we were as solid a team as he had seen from top to bottom, with no apparent holes in our singles lineup." 
The Irish must now look ahead to a tough stretch of matches on the road. 
Notre Dame travels to East Lansing to take on Michigan State Tuesday and then faces No. 9 Virginia Sunday in Charlottesville, Va. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Sports Wri rer 
For Emily Creachbaum, Katie Boyce, Doirdro Mangan and Maureen Bush, Saturday marked the last time they would stop onto the floor of the Angola Athletic ,Center in a Saint Mary's basketball uniform. 
The four seniors. who worn honored in a pre-game ceremo­ny, celebrated their last hurrah by leading the Hellos to a 69-67 victory over Olivet Saturday arternoon in the regular season finale for both teams. 
Crcachbaum, who is currently third on the Saint Mary's all-time scoring Jist, will go down as one of the best players in school his­tory. The 6-foot forward has averaged 11.0 points per game during her earner. 
"She's the spitting imago of consistency," coach Suzanne Bellina said. "She works her tail off, whether it's practice, or shoot-around or tho game. You always know she's going to give her all." 
Saint Mary's (11-14, 6-10 MlAA) finished sixth in tho con­ference and will travel to Grand Hapids, Mich., to take on third­seeded Calvin in the first round of the conferenee tournament. The Belles have never beaten the Knights. 
For the Comets (7-17, 2-14), the loss represented their 11th in a row and 12th in their last 13 games. Olivet. who linished ninth and last in the MIAA, will play eighth-place Adrian in a play-in game for the conference tourna­ment Monday. The Bulldogs won both regular season meetings. 
Saturday's game was elose from wire to wire, with the Bnllns maintaining a slim lead for most of the contest until Olivet took a 53-52 lead with a little ovnr six minutes remaining in tho gamn. Tho Hellos regained the advan­tagn on a Bridget Boyce jump shot. 
Tho Comets tied tho ga.mn with a free throw and forced a. Belles turnovnr, but then saw the game unravel. 
An errant pass ended up in the hands of Bnlles point guar·d Katie Boyce, who broke away from the paek and wont in for what looked like an uncontested lay-up, but as she went up for the shot she was fouled hard by Olivet guard Amy Brackonwagon. 
Braekenwagon was called for an intentional foul, giving Saint Mary's two frno throws and the ball, and Boyce sank both shoL'i from the line. 
On the ensuing possession, Belles center Maureen Bush banknd in a shot from the basn­line to oxtnnd the advantage to l(mr points. Out of sudden frus­tration, Olivet head coach Deanna Richard yelled at the ofricials and was called for a technical foul. Two Alison Kessler free throws latnr, the Belles led 60-54 and never· looked back. 
Bellina credited the Bolles' ability to make free throws in putting away the Conwl'i. 
"Our team has so much confi­dence that they will sueceed from the free throw line," she said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

ND SOFTBALL 
Rain cancels 4 of 5 games at San Diego 
reeordnd double-digit striknouL'i, this time sitting down I I batll'rs while giving up two hiL'i over six innings. 
She loft tho game with tlw Irish up 3-0, but rnturnnd after reliever Carrie Wism1 gave up a t.wo-run homer in the top or tlw sixth that cut the Irish lead to one. Tho win over Utah was Stl'nglein 's snmnd victory of the year and her lirst save. 
Stenglein was spotted an early lead thanks t.o a quir.k start by thP ommsn. 
Brown led on· the bottom of tho lirst with a single to Jolt, and allnr Middleton rnaehed on an error, Ciolli doubled to the right lield wall to put the Irish up 2-0. 
Tho Irish extemlnd tlwir lead in the liJLrrth whnn Brown hit a triple down tlw lert.linld line with two ouL'i. Middleton's HBI single then made the score 3-0. 
Notre Dame attempted to play a linal game on Sunday bnlilm leav­ing San Dingo, looking to eontinlll~ their nHmHmtum from Friday's vktory over Utah. 
They led Central Michigan 1-0 in the fourth inning beforn rain on('.e again forced a canenllation. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy@nd.edu 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Sports Writer 
Tho Irish ligured they would need strong pitching, good def­ense and solid hitting !wading into this weekend's Campbnii-Cartier Tournamnnt in San I >ingo. 
A'i it turnnd out. the only thing they nnoded was an umbrella. 
lleavy rains forced Notre Damn to cancel most of tho gamns scheduled for this weekPnd, inducting a matdmp against No. 4/No. 3 UCLA, and limited the tnam to just a singlo game, a 3-2 victory over Utah Friday after­noon. 
Since the San Diego area expP­rieneed more rain in the last month than in the pnwious year combined, gamns were canceled against No. 21/No. 1 H Fresno State and San Diogo State. 
Leadolf hitter St(~phanin Brown wont 2-l(w-2 against the Utes with two runs and a triple, and eentnr­finlder and Player or tho Year can­didate Megan Ciolli was 2-for-3 with two doubles and two HBis. 
Continuing the tmun's dominant pitching performance from their tournament victory at tho GHU Classic the previous weekend, Stfll'fany StP.ngloin once again 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 21, 2005 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish win Big East Championship 
By NATHAN DYER Sports Writer 
The Irish won the Big East Indoor Championship in Syracuse, N.Y., over the weekend, fending off tough competition from all of the other competitors, especially Rutgers, who fought the Irish to the very end. 
The lead in the team competi­tion changed hands constantly over the weekend between the Irish and the Scarlet Knights, but it was a second-place fmish in the 3,200 meter relay that clinched victory for the Irish. 
Notre Dame held the lead going into Sunday's fmal day of compe­tition, earning 57.50 points through the five events that took place during Saturday's competi­tion and leading Rutgers by 20 points. The Scarlet Knights fought back on Sunday, however, at one point overtaking the Irish by nine points. After a strong showing in the 3,000 meters, the Irish retook the lead, gaining 25 points and a 14-point lead on Rutgers. 
The final team score for the two-day competition was Notre Dame 182, Rutgers 168.5, with Pittsburgh taking third place (98 points). Notre Dame last won the Big East title two years ago. 
The story of the weekend was Irish hurdler Selirn Nurudeen, as the senior defended his 60-meter hurdles title from a year ago, on his way to claiming the men's most outstanding track per­former, 
Nurudeen broke his own 
record of 7. 7 8 seconds set last year, with a time of7.72, and also won the 200-meter dash title, with a time of 21.38. 
Sophomore Kurt Benninger added to his outstanding indoor season, doubling up on individual titles, bringing home the mile and 3,000-meter race crowns with times of 4:12.14 and 8:15.22, respectively. Benninger finished just ahead of teammate Tim Moore (8:17.04) in the 3,000 meter race. 
Notre Dame senior cornerback Dwight Ellick showed what he is capable of off the gridiron, taking second in the 60-meter dash with a time of 6.78, just .05 off the winner, Syracuse's Aulton Kohn. 
Contact Nathan Dyer at ndyer@nd.edu 

Selim Nurudeen runs in the GO-meter hurdles at the Meyo Invitational Feb. 5. Nurudeen won the event at the Big East Championship. 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Teatn loses t-wo close tnatches to ranked foes 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
The Irish don't plan to let this weekend's setbacks defeat them. 
In fact, Notre Dame finds its 4­3 losses to No. 5 Duke and No. 9 North Carolina almost hearten­ing. 
"These two meets showed our kids that they're as good as some of the top-ranked kids," coach Jay Louderback said. "They were right there with them." 
No. 20 Notre Dame (4-4) jumped to a 3-2 lead after win­ning doubles and appeared poised to upset North Carolina (9-3) Sunday morning. 
Senior captain Sarah Jane Connelly and junior Kiki Stastny were first off the courts, besting Caitlin Collins and Alexandra Jurewitz 8-2 at No. 3. Louderback said the pair's per­formance was representative of the hard work they have put in all season. 
"From the start they were in. control of their match," he said. "And they don't let little things get to them during matches. They play point to point." 
No. 2 sophomores Catrina and Christian Thompson followed their lead, prevailing over No. 14 Kendall Cline and Aniela Mojzis 8-6 at No. 1. The Thompsons are 16-2 this season and 11-1 against nationally ranked teams. 
Junior Lauren Connelly and freshman Brook Buck fell to Anundsen and Jenna Long at No. 2 9-8 (7-5) despite a hard-fought match. 
The Irish did not fare as well in singles although they held an early lead with Stastny's win at No. 5. Stastny defeated Collins 6­3, 6-3 in Sunday's quickest sin­gles match. Next off the courts, No. 69 Catrina Thompson upset No. 26 Mojzis 7-6 (7-3), 7 -5) at No. 1 to put an Irish victory with­in arm's length. 
However, North Carolina quick­ly rebounded, collecting wins in the remaining three singles matches. No. 37 Cline edged out No. 85 Buck at No.2 6-1, 7-6 (7­5), while junior Liz Donohue fell to Jurewitz 1-6, 6-2, 6-2 at No. 6. 
Tied at 3-3, the outcome of the meet depended on the final sin­gles match at No. 4. After losing the first set, Sara Anundsen surged back to clinch the meet for the Tar Heels 2-6, 6-3, 6-3. 
No.5 Duke4, No. 21 Notre Dame 3 
The Irish saw much of the same on Friday against Duke. Although the Irish held a 3-0 advantage midway through the meet, Duke rallied for a 4-3 victo­ry Friday afternoon. No. 96 Sara Arasu defeated Lauren Connelly in a third-set tiebreaker 3-6, 6-4, 7-6 to clinch the win for Duke. 
Notre Dame started off strong with victories across the board in doubles. No. 2 Catrina and Christian Thompson beat Kristin Cargill and Jennifer Zika 8-2 at No. 1. Lauren Connelly and Buck clinched the doubles point for the Irish, defeating Katie Blaszak and Tory Zawacki at No. 2 doubles. In the final doubles match, Sarah Jane Connell and Kiki Stastny bested Celia Deltour and Parker Goyer 8-5 at No. 3 doubles. 
Louderback said doubles are quickly becoming the team's forte. 
"Our doubles are solid," Louderback said. "I think our kids learned that they can stay with anyone in doubles matches. We just need to work on singles now. And with singles, it's just a matter of someone stepping up and pulling out a win." 
Donohue claimed the first sin­gles match for the Irish, record­ing a 6-1, 6-2 win over Zawacki at No.6. 
Following up with a quick vic­tory at No. 2, Buck defeated No. 108 Aika 6-3, 6-0 to extend the Irish advantage 3-0. 
Deltor spearheaded Duke's rally, beating Christian Thom­pson 7-6, 6-2 at No. 3. No. 115 Blaszak added to Duke's efforts with a 6-1, 6-7, 6-2 win over Catrina Thompson at No. 1. Cargill tied the match at 3-3, defeating Stastny at No. 5 1-6, 6­4, 6-4, and Arasu collected the fmal victory at No. 4 over Lauren Connelly. 
"It was frustrating that we couldn't come away with wins this weekend," Louderback said. "We shouldn't be letting [our opponents] get into a third set." 
The Irish take the courts again this weekend against Texas and Iowa. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

What's your scholarship? 
·Find your scholarship opportunities at our re-launched Scholarship Channel. 
powered by: 

/ 

TOLERANCE
SPRING 
~I.(NlVER. SJTY.OF...

ARTSjest REC NC1ll ION 
~NOTRE DAME TWQ WEEKS OF MUSIC, FILM, THEATRE, AND DISCUSSION THttWTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TElEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESHHS 
TH£ lARAMIE PROJECT BY MOIS£S KAUfMAII DIRECTED BYANTON JUAN 
DEClO MAINSTAG£ THfATRE 
3 

DEAD MAN WALKING BY TIM ROBBINS OIREOED BY SIIR! S<OlT Allll JAVSKElTOII.. Pf!llBIII STIJDIO 
267 

Monday, February 21, 2005 page 17
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Opener 
continued from page # 20 
pitcher Jess Stewart, clutch hitting from eenter fielder Craig Cooper, gritty play by junior short-;top Grng Lopez and savvy basn-running to hold off the (;oldnn Knights. Cooper, who was 2-for-3 on the day, smaeknd an .Jeff Samardzija, the Irish blew past the Hattlers, 18-3. 
With the lead and some injuries, the Irish got major con­tributions from most of their roster. 
"We had to use just about everybody on the roster this weekend," Mainieri said. "Part of it was by design, and part of it was because... of nicks and bruises we had. All those guys 
HBI singln to right "We had to use just that filled in for field to ignite a the injured play­
about everybody on

three-run sixth. ers, and those Junior shortstop the roster this guys I gave a (;rog Lopez, who weekend." chance to like pulled his ham­Alex Nettey, really string, gutted out came through in
Paul Malnlerl

tho game in the a big way for us. field. Mainieri said
Irish head coach 

"(;reg I.opoz twnaked his ham­string, so I just felt like I needed to rest it today," Mainieri said. "When we got the lead and only had thnH~ innings to play, he lit­~~rally eouldn't run, so what we did was just put him in to play dof1mso thoso last thrno innings. lin madn a ganw-saving double play." 
Friday, in its first gamo of the soason. Notro Dame's bats were on liro tho ontiro gamo. 
Using I H runs on 1:~ hits and a solid pitching pnrfonnancn from 
junior infielder 
Eddie Smith and sophomore outfielder Danny Dressman also contributed to the victories in impressive roles. 
In the four games this week­end, the Irish turned 10 double plays, a stollar accomplishment for their first baseball played outside-Notre Dame has prac­ticed inside to this point -this season. 
"It's really amazing that our 
Contact Tom Dorwart at 
tdorwart@nd.edu 
Friars 
continued from page 20 
came early shooting trou­bles and survived a late Friars {11-15, 1-11) rally to escape the Dunkin Donuts Center Saturday with a 62-61 win. 
Cornett came off the bench to relieve a struggling Torin Francis (0-for-6 in eight min­utes) and took full advantage of his 27 minutes and second­half start to finish with 14 points and 14 rebounds. 
Quinn continued to shoot the ball well, making 5-of-8 3­pointers en route to scoring 17 points. Quinn has made 13 of his last 17 3-point attempts. 
Ryan Gomes struggled for Providence, making 5-of-18 shots from the field. but scored 16 points. Handall Hanke came off the beneh for the Friars and made all six of his shots to score 12 points. 
Arter foreing a jump ball with 4.1 seconds remaining, the Friars had the ball under­neath their own basket. Gomes inbounded the ball to Donnie McGrath who gavn tho ball back to Gomes. 
Gomes got the ball near the right block and attempted a turnaround jumper. llis shot went oiT the backboard and rolled off the rim. 

Providence got back into the game with a 6-0 run after Jordan Cornette's only 3­pointer of the game gave Notre Dame a 62-55 lead with 1 :4 7 remaining. 
The Irish extended a 31-24 halftime lead to 40-26 early in the second half. Providenee eventually climbed its way back into the game and tied the game at 53 with 7:07 left. 
Providence wasn't able to open up a big first-half lead as Notre Dame made only 3­of-25 to start the game. The Friars' biggest advantage came when they went up 14-5 on a hook shot from Hanke. 
But the Irish finally got their shots to fall and used a 15-3 run to close the half and turn a 21-16 deficit into a seven­point lead going into the loek­er room. 
The Irish returned to their struggles from the free throw line, eonverting on 7 -of-16 in the game. 
Dominating on the boards, out rebounding the Friars 45­32 including 20-6 on the offensive glass, allowed the Irish to overcome their 34 shooting percentage. 
Chris Thomas played well once again for the Irish, seor­ing 10 points, grabbing six rnbounds, dishing out eight assists and committing three turnovers. 
The Irish return to the court tonight at 7 p.m. at Connecticut. The Big Monday matchup will be televised on ESPN and is Notre Dame's last road game of the season. Notes: 
Saturday's win was Mike Brey's 200th overall in his career. Brey won 99 games at Delaware in five seasons before coming to South Bend. 
NOTRE DAME 62 Providem~e 61 at the DUNKIN DONUTS CENTER 

NOTRE DAME (16-7,1!-5) 
Cornette 1-4 2-2 5, Frands 0-f> 0-0 0, Tholll!L~ 4-15 0-2 10. Quinn 6-1 :l 0-0 17. Falls 3-12 0-0 '1, lsrnalt-2 0-1 2, Cornntt 5-'1 4-'1 14, Kurz 0-0 0-0 0, Latimorn 2-4 1-2 5. Totals 22-65 7-16 62. 
PROVJI)ENCE (1 1-15, 1-1 1) 
Gomes 5-18 4-5 16, Parnwr 1-5 0-0 2. llill 1-3 0-0 2, MeGrath 2-6 3<l '1. Kotti 4­9 1-5 'J, White :l-5 0-0 h. MeKiv11r 2-3 0-0 5, Cross 0-0 0-0 0, Hanke h-f> 0-0 12, Bur·eh 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 24-55 H-13 (>I. 
1st  2nd Tntul  
NOTRE DAME  :H  :H  h2  
l'rovldenee  24  37  h 1  

:l·JlOinl gouts: Notn• Dumn 11-2H (Quinn 5-H, Falls :l-11. Thom<L~ 2-6, Corrwtll' 1­3),1'rovidnnen 5-th ((;omns 2-3. Md;ruth 2-h. MeKivnr 1-2. Kotti 0-1. l'arnwr 0-41. Fouled out: Nonn. llebounds: Notre Damn 45 (Cornntt 141. l'rovidnnen 32 ((;onws 71. Assists: Notrt• Dame I h !Thomas HI. l'rovidPn!:t1 I :1 IKott.i. Mc<;rath 41. 'H•tal fouls: NotrP l>nnw 12, l'rovidenen 14. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Rutgers 
continued from page 20 
results out of their pressure defnnse." 
Guard Chnlsea Newton led the Searlet Knights on dofnnse, taking five of the loam's 16 steals. Nnwton also helpod her team on the offnnsive side of the court, as Rutgers jumpnd out to a 32-20 halftimn lead as she got seven of her night assists in tho first half. 
Tho Irish struggled in virtual­ly every offensive eategory in the lirst hall'. shooting only 5-20 from tho field. But the Irish kept themsnlves in the ball­game by capitalizing on Rutgers' 11 first-hall' fouls. get­ting half of their first-half points behind a 10-of-12 tirst hall' performance from the free­throw lim1. 
"I thought we eompnted well in the first half," McGraw said. 


·:we j~.st didn't havo shots fall lor us. 
As·t.he second half began, Notre Damn looknd poisnd to eome back by doing what it has specialized in all soason ­dominate the second half. The Irish took advantage of the first 
4:56 of the half by going on an 11-1 run to cut. the Butgers lnad to 33-31. JL111ior forward Courtney Lavern scored four of her eight points during that run, and senior /\11-Ameriean Jacqueline Batteast, who lin­ished with 14 points, comple­mented hnr with thren points in that span as the Irish worn able to seore from inside. 
McGraw saw lots of promise in her team's run. 
"I thought we showod a lot of !wart coming back early in the seeond half." she said. 
One of the reasons that Notrn Dame started so sueeessfully was because they were able to finally shut down Searlot Knights' guard Cappin 
Wert!· J)o Mondays 
Like .No IPiace El.se! 
Enjoy a double order of chicken. sfeak or combo fajifas (enoush for fwo) for jusf $11!* 
c 




MJS~AWAI<A 
4810 Grape Rd. 271-1330 
"Offer Vllhd eYer Monday 11 a.m ±o do5e. 
l'ondextnr, who had only mw of hnr 1:~ points in the seeond half. 
"Cappin shot the ball wPII in tlw l'irst hall', hut wn did a mueh bettor job stopping hnr Iin the sec.ond ha.ll'l," McGraw said. 
llownver, as Pondnxtnr coolml oil', hnr tnammatns bngan lwat­ing up. Nnwton scon1d 12 of lwr 14 points in tho seeond hall'. 
/\s soon as the Irish got rlos11, llutgnrs rnspondml by going on a run of tlwir own, outscoring Nolrn Dame 15-2 in a 7:0(, strntch. 
In tho last X:5H, tlw Scadnt Knights stoppnd the Irish nvnry time they <W«lll Clune rlosn to building monwntum, and Notrn Damn was nevnr abln to cut the lead bnlow I 0 points. 
Tlw Irish will have a full week oiT before faeing West. Virginia on Saturday for Senior Day at. tho Joy<~n Cm1ter. Notes: 
MeGraw lel't the tnam for Philadnlphia al'tnr the gamn du11 to the death of hnr fathnr, Joseph G. O'Brien, 79. Mcgraw found out about his early Saturday morning dnath b111'ore tho game but did not toll tlw team until after thn gamn. 
HUTGEHS 59, NOTHE DAME 4S at the LOUIS BHOWN 
/\TIILETIC CENTEH 

NOTRE DAME (2:l-4. 11-:ll 
Batln<L~t 3-14 H-9 14. l.aVnn> 3-h 2-2 H. Borton 1-4 2-2 4. Dul'fy 4-h 4-4 14. (;ray :l-7 0-0 h. (;uinns 0-2 1-2 1. Allnn 0­2 1-2 I, Erwin 0-1 0-0 0. 
HlJT(iEHS (20-5, 11-2) 
Camplwll 5-11 0-1 10. lliduuan 1-2 :1-H 5, Ajavon 2-7 0-2 4, .lnlt 2-h 1-2 5, NPwlml 5-l 3 3-4 14, l'ondnxtt•r 5-7 1-2 1;{, l.ock'• 1·2 1-2 ;{,Carson 1-7 2-4 4, Adams 0-0 0­0 0, Ht•nd 0-1 0-1 0, Tlwodoris 0-0 1-2 I 
I st  2nd 'lhtul  
NOTilE HAME  20  211  411  
llutgers  :12 27 59  

:{-Jloint goals: Notn' llamn 2-H tllull'y 2-4, !lray 0-2. llatlnasl 0·1. LaVern 0-11. l'rovidnnen 5-11 ll'ondnxtnr 2-:l. Nnwtnn 1-1, .lntt 1-2. l.o!'.k'' 1-2, 1\nml 0-1. Ajavon 0-2). Fnult•d nul: Erwin. llnbounds: Notr,. Damn :l7 (llaltnast HI, llutgnrs 34 (Camphnll. 1\ir.hman !>1. Assists: NotrP llanw H (Dully :l), 1\ulgnrs 15 INnwton HI. 'lbtal fimls: NotrP Damn 20, 1\utgnrs 21 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 21, 2005 
Cha01ps 
continued from page 20 
would be remembered. Scoring a meet-record 902.5 points to claim the title, Notre Dame ended Pittsburgh's streak of eight consecutive Big East titles and capped off the most successful season in team histo­ry. Irish head coach Tim Welsh garnered Big East Coach of the Year honors for the second con­secutive year. 
'This is one of the meets that we focused on for the entire sea­son and this was the whole team's goal," Welsh said. "Winning this meet is what we've concentrated on all year long. To see it come through is really exciting and gratifying for all the hard work that the guys have put in." 
The team's performance was one for the ages. The results speak for themselves, as school records fell in both individual races and team relays. Eight Irish swimmers qualified for con­sideration to take part in the NCAA Championships and nine records were set by Irish swim­mers over the course of the championship meet. 
Do01inant 
continued from page 20 

Weathers was named Big East Swimming Coach of the Year, taking the honor for the sixth time in 10 years. 
"I think this demonstrates how hard the kids on the team worked," Weathers said. "I don't think it was something for me, but for the whole team." 
Ten Irish swimmers and divers were named All-Big East selec, tions this weekend. Leading the pack was Katie Carroll, who won seven Big East titles, including three in individual events. 
The sophomore made an NCAA "A" cut in the 400-yard individual medley, ensuring her a place in the NCAA Championships next month. Carroll also won the 200 IM and the 200 butterfly, hitting NCAA "B" cuts in both events. 
Carroll was also a member of the 800-yard freestyle relay team that set an Irish record with a time of 7:16.95. The team of Caroline Johnson, Ellen Johnson, Carroll and Rebecca Grove won the 400 freestyle relay, as well, hitting "B" cuts in both. 
Johnson, Carroll and Grove were members of the title-win­ning 200 freestyle team along 

I with Katie Guida. That team also 
I made a "B" cut. Ellen Johnson also set a Notre 
r 
I Dame record in the 200 freestyle 
I with a mark of 1:49.20. Her time 
I was good enough for a "B" cut, as was her first place 500 freestyle time. Perry-Eaton concluded her illustrious Big East career in fine 
l 
fashion, dominating the field off 
r 
I both the one and three-meter I boards. The All-American won
I I the one-meter competition by
I 
64.65 points and then took the three-meter title by 123.95 points. 
Her score of 555.20 set a meet record, and her five career Big East titles also tied the confer­ence record. 

One of the biggest surprises of the weekend came from fresh­man diver Tara Hyler. 
She finished second to Perry­Eaton in the three-meter compe­tition with a score of 431.25 that was also good enough to qualify for the NCAA Zone C Diving Championships scheduled for 
"One of the hallmarks of this team is how balanced and how deep the team is," Welsh said. "When you look at performanc­es, we set University records in all five of the relays. That's 20 swims at the same time in the same race that went well. That's a real team performance and setting University records in all five relays is extremely rare. We're really happy about that." 
Eleven Irish swimmers quali­fied for All-Big East honors, many for multiple events -sen­ior Frank Krakowski, juniors Doug Bauman, Tyler Grenda, Jamie Lutkus, Tim Randolph and Steve Shamberger, sophomores Ted Brown, Louis Cavadini, Tim Kegelman and Chris Zeches and freshman Jay Vanden Berg. 
The depth of the Irish attack was showcased in many of the relay and individual races throughout the four-day meet's events. But nowhere was this more apparent than in the 200­yard individual medley, on the first day, and the 1,650-yard freestyle race on Saturday. 
Seven of the 16 swimmers in the 200-yard IM were Irish swimmers, who combined to outscore Pittsburgh 79-16 in the event. Kegelman finished first in the event, with a time of 1 minute, 49.62 seconds. Vanden Berg took first place in the 1 ,650 freestyle, leading an Irish contin­gent of five fmalists, as he broke the University record with a time of 15:19.30-more than 13 sec­onds faster than the previous record. 
"It's very hard to overcome depth like that if you're some­body else," Welsh said. "When you look at our team there's not a lot of difference between our fastest person and our third or fourth-fastest person. And when you can [race like that] 20 events in a row, it's a really powerful force." 
Despite a solid effort at the Big East Championships, the season does not end here for some members of the Irish squad. With strong performances across the board, Notre Dame was also able to register a number of swimmers for consideration to swim in the NCAA Championships, which will take place March 24-26 in Minneapolis. 
"What's exciting as far as a program definition is that this is the highest number of B cuts we've ever had, including some relay B cuts that we have not had before," Welsh said. "Whether they [qualify] or not, we know that as a program we've taken a giant step and we will be there at some point." 

The Big East title puts one more notch on the Irish belt and adds another accomplishment to the team's list of many. The Irish defeated a nationally ranked foe, then-No. 17 Pittsburgh, and also climbed the national polls them­selves -both first-time occur­rences for the team. But throughout the season, the team's singular goal has been to win the Big East title. Finally, the Irish can cross that goal off their to-do list. 
"It is wonderful and exciting to set a long-range goal, work everyday to achieve it and then to actually achieve it at the right time," Welsh said. "That's a hard thing to do and we'll always remember that this team did that. What characterized this team t_hroughout the season was its team spirit, energy and sup­port for one another, in addition to the hard work. 
"Those things made the season just especially memorable and really special. This is a wonder­ful team." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkalaa rgottumu@nd.edu 

ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANYmid-March. Hyler became just the third Irish diver to be named All-Big East, joining the company of two All-Americans, Perry­Eaton and Heather Mattingly 
('02). 

Presentation and Information
Despite a competitive field, the Irish swam away with the cham­
Session

pionship, leaving Pittsburgh a distant second with 613 points 
Tuesday, February 22 at 6:00pm
and Rutgers, runner-up the last two years, in third with 545 
McKenna Hall-Room 112 and the Auditorium 
points. 

of the Center for Continuing Education
"The girls worked hard and 


enjoyed it," Weathers said. "It was pretty special to all of them." 
Up next for the Irish is the 
Pizza will be provided! Boiler-Make-It Invitational, which will showcase swimmers 
Allstate.
who were not able to compete in 
All students interested in learning more about 
You're in good hands.the Big East Championships as 
our company and our actuarial or financial
well as those who are close to making NCAA cuts. 
analysts positions are welcome to -attend. 
Contact Mike Tennant at 
mtennant@nd.edu 
CURRENT FULL-TIME OPENINGS: 
• 
Advertising Assistants 


• 
Junior Bronch Inventory Analysts 

• 
Marketing Associates 


• 
Warehouse Management Trainees 

• 
Customer Service Management Trainees 


CURRENT INTERNSHIP OPENINGS: 
• 
Marketing • Circulation • Administrative 

• 
Distribution • MIS • Sales • Finance • Creative 


Founded in 1980, we have 7 locations and over 1 million feet of warehouse space In North America. During the last two decades, Ullne's mission has been to offer fhe finest quality and best selectlon of shfpping supplies to our customers. We deliver with a speed and accuracy unparalleled In the lndusfJY. 

-

Monday, February 21, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 
""-_... CHARLES SCHULZ 
JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MEFAL 
j
rJ r 
02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~~~r1 [J 
LOUGEY 
1 
rJ b
www.Jumble.com 
I YOHRFTj
I rI [ J 
Ans: 

A "( I I I I J' rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: TRYST JERKY BICKER VALUED Answer: "Aides" can give you this-IDEAS 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

fl WHAT THE: FARMt=R GAVE: THE: HIRED HANDS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to fonm the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 The Ocean 66 Winning State 1-Across can
1 Trophies and make this grow
such 33 donna 67 Blue-green

7 Give at no 35 They split when charge, as a they're smashed 68 Fancy home hotel room 
36 Motorcycle 69 Room with an 11 Hypodermic attachment easy chair units, for short 
39 English pool 70 Master 14 Magical drink game thespians they're not
15 Cousin of a 43 Sign up for bassoon more issues 71 Like a professional
16 "Roses red 45 Scoundrel haircut46 Arrived like 
11 1981 Mel Michael in an Gibson film, old song? DOWN with "The" 
51 Decimal base 1 Mo. before May 19 Fellows 52 Spoken 2 Court 
20 Go in 53 Singer Turner 3 21 Basic beliefs 54 Penny disadvantage 
(handicapped)
23 Gorbachev was 55 Actress Roberts its last leader: and others 4 Equestrian Abbr. 5 Sad
58 Electrical 26 404 in old pioneer 6 Grab Rome 
60 Explosive initials 7 Bullfight 28 Niagara source 
61 Had the a Kimono sash 29 de mer passenger seat 
9 Not worth debating ANSWER TO PREVIOUS P-=-UZr.Z:='IL-::::E~ 10 French father 
in the decor 22 "Full" or "half' 
1-::::t-::::+.--:+::::-...r:::+.:::+.:;+.-:-r..t• '!'!'t::i-1-::+.i:-1 wrestling hold 
8-7-h..fl!l*.~:+.:-.o.r:::t-:-+.::+::+.=-17.-1 23 Diamond V.I.P.'s 24 Delhi dress 25 Moved on ice -:-t-:+.*.t-f"!"' ..,;+.:+.::,+.::-~ 27 Dog docs 
30 Zoomed 

-i:+.::+.':+.-:-8 -'-L.::...J..;.;.J...:....L.'-' 31 Charged particle 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

-=+:+:::+:-i 11 Kodak, e.g. 12 Lowlife 13 Felt 18 Make a change 

32 Gig  42 Landlord's due  54 Feline  
34 Just 37 Commercial suffix with Tropic 38 Remainder 40 Smith who sang "God Bless  44 Bleaches 46 Went bad 47 Juice source 48 Malicious 49 Change for a five  56 Part of McDonald's logo 57 Bean type 59 Disoriented 62 Hoover 63 Lass  
America" 41 Not odd  50 Epidermal eruptions  64 Western tribe 65Actor Beatty  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to:  The 0 bserver  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
--------... 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Brian Littrell. 30: Andrew Shue. 38: Cindy Crawford, 39: French Stewart, 41 
HaJ>py Birthday: Don't let any challenges slow you down or hinder your attempt to reach your goals. l11c road you travel may not be all that easy ut lirst, hut if you don't give up and you li>cus on the end result. you will reach your destination and excel far heyond your imagination. Don11 take no for an answer. ami don't give up, Your numbers arc 8. 15, 27, 33, 39, 42 
ARIES (March 2I-AJ>rill9): Nothing will he revealed to you, making it difliculllo dcdde -· what to do. Usc your intuition to guide you safely through some unpredktahle events. Keep your wits ahout you anti prepare for whatever challenge comes your wuy. •• TAlJRliS (April 20-May 20): Plan a nice, relaxing day with loved ones. You can develop one of your creative hobhies or pick up u new interest that. will hring you in contact with some new acquaintances. This is a great time to make a move or a ,,.-hange, personally or physically. •••• G~:MINI (May 21-.Junc 20): Not much will tum out as planned today. so don't even bother trying to stick to any sort of guideline. You will have to be creative. think on your feet and rely on your versatility to see you through whatever comes your way --should he a fun day. 
CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Tell it like it is. This isn'tthe time to hold buck. If you want something, you have to go after it. Honesty may not ulwuys gel you whut you want, hut it will help you resolve any pending issues, clear the air and let you know where you stuml. 
LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): This is the perfect time to take a duy trip or to plan your next vacation. Visiting some of the old familiar places you used to frequent will lead to wnnecting with old friends and lovers. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a walk on the wild side. You arc always so staid and reserved, anti it's time for you to he a little less rigid. You will entice someone whn has never looked at you us being all that interesting or approachable. •••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Not so fast. You could make a huge mistake today by not getting all the facts he fore making an important decision. Don't expect others to do things li>r you. Don'llel your heart nole your head or you muy end up feeling like a f<x>l. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take the plunge and follow through with your plans. Someone may not like what you arc doing, hut this time it shouldn't matter. The choice is yours, so stop scrond-guessing and take on a new challenge. Your life is ahout to rhange. ••••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Check out an investment. You can turn a lillie into a lot if you arc willing to put in the work. Renovating. huying and selling property, or simply investing in your own talents should pay off. Someone you are close to will give you a hard time.*** CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have lots of c~crgy and plenty to talk ahoul today. hut if you are pushy or try lo dominate someone in your life. you can expect a g<x>d tight. Sharing will he what it's all about. Sit back and give others a chance to do their part. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be feeling a little under the weather if you have been overdoing it. Make plans to relax or work quietly on a hobby you enjoy doing. Your inventive mind will come up with some interesting concepts that you should consider. ••• PISCES (Feh. I9-March 20): You will he in a splendid position to start something new and exciting. A relationship 'Viii develop with someone you respect and admire for his or her talent and integrity. Romance is evident so leave some time for pleasure. ••••• 
Birthday Baby: You arc sensitive ami reac1 quickly. You have huilt-in radar that helps you ferret out the truth. You have a powerful presence that will always draw a1lention. Ynu believe that nothing is nul of reach or impossible. 
Check out Eugenia's Wl'l> .\·ites at a.\·troadvict•.com ami t'Uf.:t'rlia/cut.com. 

-·' 


THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, February 21, 2005 
page 20 
ND SWIMMING 

Pool sharks 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Late surge gives Irish a victory 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
That 1-10 conference record was deceiving. 
But a one-point win against a one-win confer­ence team counts just like any other in the march toward the NCAA tourna­ment. 
Using a double-double from Rick Cornett and another hot-shooting game from Chris Quinn, the Irish (16-7, 8-5 Big East) over­
see FRIARS/page 17 


Offense stalls against Rutgers 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
With 12 minutes, 58 seconds left in the second half. Notre Dame guard Megan Duffy drib­bled the ball up court, and, guarded heavily, looked around and passed the ball. 
Once the ball left her hands, it never touched a teammate, and Rutgers guard Matee Ajavon intercepted the ball and took it the length of the court for a layup, giving the Scarlet Knights a 39-31lead. 

The exchange typified how Saturday afternoon went for the No. 5 Irish, as the team tied a season high by turning the ball over 23 times in a 59-48 loss at No. 10 Rutgers. 
Throughout the game, 
Rutgers swamped Notre Dame, not only forcing turnovers but holding the Irish to a 33 per­cent field goal percentage for the game. 
"That's probably the best defensive effort that we've seen by an opponent this year," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "They got a lot of 
see RUTGERS/page 17 
BASEBALL 

Team wins three in first weekend 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
En route to a 3-1 weekend, the Irish simply were "clutch," according to their skipper. 
"It just seemed like all week­end we were getting clutch strikeouts and turning clutch double plays to end the inning," Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri said. 
Mainieri's team was not only clutch on defense. It took all of one inning for the Notre Dame offense to warm up. 
The No. 20 ranked Irish (3-1) exploded for back-to-hack three-run innings starting in the second inning in a season­opening victory against Florida A&M (0-13) Friday. 
The offense stalled a bit as Notre Dame dropped a 2-1 game to No. 30 Central Florida, but the team bounced back with consecutive victories over FAMU (4-3) and UCF (4-2) to close out the weekend. 
On Saturday, the Irish faced a tough, No. 30 ranked Central Florida (7-2) squad in the open­ing game of a doubleheader. 

Golden Knights junior pitcher Mike Billek and Irish junior hurler Tom Thornton each threw gems. Notre Dame's rally in the top of the seventh tied the game at one, but UCF answered in the bottom half of the inning to win 2-1. In five innings of work, junior Tom Thornton allowed one run and had no-decision, while sopho­more reliever Derik Olvey took the loss. 
In the second game of the doubleheader in a rematch against Florida A&M, the Irish needed a late rally to avoid the upset. With the game tied at three, junior outfielder Alex Nettey crushed a double deep to center field. Freshman infielder Ross Brezovsky then drove Nettey home for the winning run in the bottom of the ninth as Notre Dame won 4-3. 
Without three of its veteran starters in the batting order, Notre Dame capped the open­ing-weekend with a 4-2 victory over UCF Sunday to earn a split with the Knights. The Irish used a solid outing from sophomore 
see OPENER/page 17 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Sporrs Writer 
It was never a question of when. 

It became a matter of how the Irish men's swimming and div­< ing team would leave its mark 
on the Big East Championships. 
That question was answered emphatically on Saturday, as No. 22 Notre Dame won its first-ever Big East Championship, eclips­ing the rest of the field by 275 points. After all 15 Irish swim­mers performed strongly in the Saturday morning preliminaries and advanced to the evening's finals,· it was a mathematical certainty the Big East title would be in the hands of the Irish by the day's end. 
That didn't stop the team from making sure their performance 
see CHAMPS/page 18 


Junior ~ryan Guarnier, top, races in the Dennis Stark Relays on Oct. Rebecca Grove, bottom, competes in the backstroke at the same meet. 
Women dominate en route to winning 9th straight Big East Title 
By MIKE TENNANT Sports Writer 
The Irish did it again. 

Notre Dame won its ninth straight Big East championship this weekend in East Meadow, N.Y. 
The Irish won 11 of 20 events, including four on the final day, for a final tally of 804 points ­191 points ahead of runner-up Pittsburgh. 
Notre Dame also claimed three of the four major awards. On the diving end, coach Caiming Xie was named the league's diving coach of the year and fifth-year senior Meghan Perry Eaton was named the Big East Championship's Most Outstanding Diver for the third year in a row. 
Head swimming coach Bailey 
see DOMINANT/page 18 
MEN'S TRACK Nil SOFTBAll SMC BASKETBAll MEN!S TENNIS Nil WOMEN'S TRACK HOCKEY 
w u Irish win BiM East Notre Dame 3 Saint Mary's 69 Notre Dame 5 Big East Irish drop both 
'!; 
z Champions ip Utah 2 Olivet 67 Northwestern 2 Tournament games to Michigan 
~ 

Team edges Rutgers by Rain cancels four of Belles edge Olivet in No. 23 Irish top No. Irish finish second in Wolverines win 9-2
c:s 

13.5 points. five games in San final home game. 40 Wildcats in match. conference tournament. Friday and 6-3 Saturday.
cc 

Diego. 
page 16 page 15 page 15 page 15 page 12 page 12
~ 






