
----------, 
ND mourning will extend beyond campus 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Mass at Basilica commemorates pope 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saint Mary's Editor 
With whitn Easter lilins still adorning the altar, thn Notrn Damn community joinnd thn rnst of' thn world in mourning llw dnath of' l'opn .John Paul II Monday af'tnrnoon in a eom­rnnmoratory Mass at the Basilica. 
Thl' ehureh pnws wen~ fillnd 
t.o rapacity with studnnts, stall', l'arulty and community mnm­bnrs, many or whom r.lutehnd rosarins in praynr. 
Houghly 40 lloly Cross priests joinPd outgoing Univnrsity l'rnsidnnt. f.'athnr Hdward Malloy as lw rnlnhratPd llw Mass and honornd tlw latP popn. 
In his homily, Malloy dnsrrihml .John Paul II as a rnn­aissanrn man, saying lw was an 
see MASS/page 4 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Baron kicks off ter111 -with hu111or, business 
Administration approves four new officeholders 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
New' Writer 
II' Monday night's Coundl ol' Hnprc~snntativPs nwnting is any indication. studnnt body JHPsidnnt J>avn Baron will IPad Notrn Damn with a sense of' humor. 
Bdorn calling the nwnting to ordnr. Baron said this ynar's Council "is going to be hard corn," plaeing !~Xtra nmphasis on tho last. syllable. 
In tlw lirst Council meeting undor thn rww administration ol' Baron, vien prnsidnnt Lizzi Shappnll and ehiol' nxneutivn assistant Liz Kozlow, rnpre­snntativns approved four new off'ienholdnrs. 
Alyce Baumgartner was approvnd as student union snerPtary. 
"She is nxtremely dndieat­nd," Kozlow said. "All my work with her has been nxtraordinary." 
The couneil approved Adam Duvall as poliey branch con­trollnr, a position he also held l'or tho 2004-05 school year under tho Istvan administra­tion. 
"All tho work Adam has done has been impeccable," Baron said. "lie has done a 
see COR/page 6 



Plan proposed to provide cable in dortns 
to sne what the possibilities are li>r the futun~. 
"ICablel is a major aspect of' improvement<; to campus technol­ogy that we will be pressing, along with getting printers in every dorm and putting wireless internet eonnnetion in dorm social spaeos," Baron said. "The invos­tigation of' l'easibility and imple­mentation of this prospoet will bn a priority in our administration." 
Studont governmnnt mprnson­
see CABLE/page 4 


By KATIE LAIRD News Writer 
As thn new Notre Damn student body representatives settle into their nnw positions. plans arc well underway to improve stu­dnnt life, induding the possibility of' attaining cable in the dorms. 
Student body prnsident Dave Baron said although eahle was not undnrlinod on his and vieo president Lizzi Shappnll's plat­l'orm earlior in the smnoster, he hopns to work with tho Univorsity 

University to send reps to Rome funeral 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
News Writer 
Notrn Damn will have Univnrsity rnprnsnntativns at Popn .John Paul ll's f'unnral Friday in Homn, University spoknsman Matt. Storin ron­firmed Monday. 
Storin said the Superior Gennral of thn Congregazionn l>i Santa Croce, Very H«wnrnnd llugh Clmtry. his two assistants and Fathnr Carl l•:bny will of'li­cially n~prnsnnt llw University at the l'unnral, S«~t to takn plan~ at 10 a.m. on Friday in Honw. At Notrn Damn, that is c~quivalnnt t.o 4 a.m. on Friday. 
Storin said 1\bny, thn pror.ura­tor w~rwral ol' llw Congregation. is a lhrmnr Notm Damn account­ing profi~ssor. Clnary is, in nfTnct, 
sec FUNERAL/page 4 
Ca111pus 
•
copiers exatnined 
Review underway to assess efficiency 
By KATIE SCARLETT 
O'HARA 
News Writer 
A review facilitatnd through Busirwss Opnrations is undnrway to examine tho nl'lkieney and services of' on-eampus eopy centers, possibly resulting in a consolidation of' f'ivo locations. 
Assistant Vice President for l'rocun~ment Snrvices Tim Gibney said a commit­toe of' stakeholders includ­ing "business managers from various colleges lot' Notre Damn!. copy enntc~r managers and representa­tives from Businoss Operations" have draf'tnd a Hnqunst For Proposal ask­ing "suppliers to proposo to us how they will operato if' we eonsolidate." 
Tho Hnq uest For Proposal spneif'ieally asks for input on tlw consolida­tion of' live or tlw copy ren­ters LaFortune, lleshurgh Library. (;raet~ llall, Athletics and OIT ­into one production «:Pntnr. 
Al'ter the pro posa I 
sec COPYIpage (i 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Povvder blue skies 
The last time I got teary-eyed about a sporting event -discounting Irish foot­ball of late for obvious, sentimental rea­sons -was when the 1997 North Carolina team lost in the Final Four to Arizona. That was 
Ram a 

a team for the Carolina ages. Gottumukkala 
Headlining the act were Vince Carter and Antawn 

Scene Editor 
Jamison, whose stars are still shining brightly in the NBA. And filling in all the necessary team details were 7-footer Serge Zwikker, Shammond Williams with his long range bombs and Ed Cota, a pass­first gem in an era of score-first point guards. I maintain it was a crime that Cota went undrafted in the pros. 
Picking Carolina to win it all has killed me in every one of my March Madness pools since 1997, except for in 2000, when I was one of the two people outside of UNC students who picked them to reach the Final Four as an eighth seed. And that's how it's gone the last few years -pick Irish football and UNC basketball to buck the odds and bring home the championship. And finally, after many March nights of pick­ing up the pieces of my shattered dream, the Tar Heels have fulfilled that wish. 
The stage was set for a terrific fmish to an immensely satisfying NCAA tour­ney. The storylines were all zingers. Roy Williams trying to end the "Williams curse" by finally winning the big one? Check, as unstoppable as a well-run Carolina fast break. Carolina facing off against a dangerous Illinois team that has been the consensus No. 1 team for months? Another check, as timely as a McCants dagger trey. A team loaded with talent, with five probable NBA lot­tery picks, fmally coming together and realizes their potential? As sure as a Felton fast-break lob to May. 
I'll be the first to admit I was extremely paranoid Illinois would make another improbable 15-point comeback when they tied up the game late in the second half. And just when I couldn't metaphorically chew my nails any harder, the much-maligned Carolina defense stepped up. Big time. Not allowing a single basket over the final two and a half minutes of the game, the UNC "D" erased any doubts they were the team to beat during the tourney and the year, at least in terms of potential. 
These Carolina players will be remembered in Chapel Hill and college basketball fans' fond memories for years to come. But I'll remember it as a beacon of hope for a sports fan embit­tered by 31-point poundings by USC and heart-breaking losses to Boston College. When I wake up to headlines across the nation that scream cheesy one-liners of Carolina's greatness, such as "Heeling Power" on ESPN.com, I'll be able to smile and wait knowingly for the next of my shattered dreams to come to fruition. 
After learning from my Carolina miss­es, I'll have no qualms with picking ND to win it all every year from now on. So don't be surprised if the college football skies bleed Irish blue and gold next year. Just as soon as the downpour of Carolina power blue subsides. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL TEAM NAME YOU HAVE HEARD? 





Vince Niov Ann Flies Nick Curcio Annie Pugel Ryan Brennan 

sophomore sophomore sophomore junior ·sophomore Pasquerilla Knott Pasquerilla Knott Keenan 
West 

West "The Zonkeys ... "The Gonk, but "SARS Unit. " 
"I haven't
"Julia's Team." they're things, they call themactually heard
right?" 'The Gaaank. "' 
Teacher starts classroom brawl 
DALLAS -A high school teacher faces an assault charge after police say she walked into a middle-school classroom, grabbed that teacher's hair, yanked her out of her chair, and dragged her across the room while punching her in the face and kicking her. 
According to the police report, Paulette Baines grabbed Mary Oliver in front of the class full of gift­ed students Friday. Baines was angry because Oliver told her daughter to quit loi­tering by lockers and go to cla:ss, Dallas school district 
TODAY 

, 
any. 


ture as proof. 
Janeal Lee, who has mus­cular dystrophy and uses a scooter, was snapped by The Post-Crescent newspa­per standing among her high school math students. 
''I've been made to feel as if I can't represent the dis­abled citizens of Wisconsin because I'm not disabled enough," Lee said Thursday. 
Lee, 30, of Appleton, had planned to go to the nation­al pageant with her younger sister, who also has muscu­lar dystrophy and won the competition in Minnesota. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

spokesman Donald Claxton said. 
Oliver said Baines was yelling at her as she entered the classroom. 
"I want you to know I did­n't raise a finger. I didn't raise my voice. I didn't do anything to aggravate the situation," Oliver said. "I did everything possible to defuse the situation." 
Wheelchair pageant queen loses crown 
APPLETON, Wis. -Ms. Wheelchair Wisconsin has be.en stripped of her title because pageant officials say she can stand -and point to a newspaper pic-
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
..... 
<
(,) 





0 

HIGH 75 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 

LOW 68 LOW LOW LOW 
66 
55 
65 
40 
47 38 

IN BRIEF 
The softball team will face off against Eastern Michigan in a doubleheader today at 3 p.m. and 7 at Ivy Field. 
Ray Ofden, of the department of mathematics at the University of Glasgow, will speak today on "Biomechanics of Soft Biological Tissue: Structure and Modeling." The lecture is sponsored by the department of aerospace and mechanical engi­neering and will take place in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
The baseball team will face Toledo today at 5 p.m. in Eck Stadium. 
The South Bend Center for Medical Education is sponsoring a lecture by Gary Fromm, M.D., entitled "Sleep Disorders" tonight at 7 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo Hall. 
Robert Audi, Gallo Professor of Business Ethics; and profes­sor of management and philoso­phy will give a Cahill Lecture entitled "Ethical Leadership and Leadership in Ethics" today from 5 p.m. to 6:30 in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. The Hesburgh Award for Business Ethics will also be pre­sented to Amy Domini, CEO of Domini Social Investments. 
Jorge Chapa, professor and founding director of the Latino Studies Program at Indiana University, will give a lecture entitled "Apple Pie and Enchiladas" Wednesday from 5 
p.m. to 6:15 in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

58 36 


Atlanta 75 I 52 Boston 58 I 42 Chicago 71 I 53 Denver 43 I 28 Houston 80 I 60 Los Angeles 77 1 54 Minneapolis 70 1 50 New York 64 I 48 Philadelphia 66 I 48 Phoenix 85 I 60 Seattle 56 I 44 St. Louis 70 1 54 Tampa 82 1 62 Washington 71 1 52 
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Outgoing tnetnbers bid farew-ell 

By KELLY BALE 
Nt•ws Writer 
At their last m<Hlting Monday bnforn turnover, nwrnhers of' the currnnt Saint Mary's Board of' Govnrnance thank<ld naeh other and said thnir goodbyes whiln incoming nwmbnrs obsnrvnd the pro­<:nPdings. 
''I've had a wondnrful year, I've lnarrwd so much from all of' you and l'vn bonn inspired hy all of' you," outgoing stu­dnnt body president Sarah Catlwrinn White said. 
Other outgoing BO<~ mem­bers also thanked the board for their dedication to the group throughout thn ynar. 
"I would like to sincnrely thank evnryonn on BOG because I nnjoynd working with you so much." outgoing studnnt body viee president Mary Paulino Moran said. "I will take so many memories from this ynar with me." 
White hoped that ineoming board members could use this opportunity as a shadow experience and invited the new elects to observe BOG proee'dure and to ask ques­tions. 
BOG approved a co-sponsor­ship with the Notre Dame Student Union Board, the Notre Dame Class of 2007 and the Saint Mary's Class of 2007 for the Battle of' the Bands on April 22. Sophomores Claudia Toth and Kathleen Kindt pre­sented the eo-sponsorship to BOG and emphasized that the event, whieh will be held at Legnnds and will feature 10 groups and musieians, will be a tri-eampus one and that they hope to gain more partie­
ipation from all three campuses. 
During discus­sion of the <lVent, Student Activities Board president Laur­en Fabina said she had attend­ed and enjoyed last year's Battle of the Bands. 
Toth and Kindt said Saint Mary's has been involved in the planning of Battle of the 
Bands and that the event will be advertised on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Several BOG members felt it was good that Saint Mary's was participating in planning and advertising the event, and this fact was taken into con­sideration when deciding how much money the co-sponsor­ship would be approved for. 
In other BOG news: 
Student Diversity Board will sponsor a frost your own cookies event on Wednesday at 10 p.m. in McCandless Hall. 
A Memorial mass for Pope John Paul II will be held Wednesday at 4 p.m. in the Church of Loretto. 
The SMC Tostal and Spring Fiesta will be held on April 
21. 
Contact Kelly Bale at kbaleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

ND business council ventures to Canada 
By LISA SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
Last weekend, 12 membnrs of Notre Dame's Studnnt International Businnss Couneil traveled to Windsor, Canada to fulfill the SIBC mission statnment of "Pnaee through Comm-erce." 
Members of both tho Finance and Global Dnvelo­pment divisions participatnd in the International Political Eeonomy project, a semian­nual event highlighted by a debate about an internation­al topie that is both globally and economic-centered, jun­ior and eo-director of thn International Political Economy project Matt Walsh said. 
"The debate is more than a debate," Walsh said. "In a way it is a diplomatic state­ment that our two countries, especially young students form both countries, ean work together to have an intellectual discussion about issues that will affect us in the future as well as now." 
This semester's topic was whether the political and economic rise of China will positively or negatively affect North Ameriea in the future. The students of the hosting school, thn University of Windsor, took the negative side and won 
the dnhatn. 

Notre Damn has hosted Univnrsity of Windsor stu­dnnts in thn fall smnnstnr the past two ynars. Tlw relation­ship with the Canadian <:om­muter sehool was nstah­lishnd from a formnr Notrn Damn Sl BC mnm bnr from Canada. 
Although thn tnams wnrn serious about tlw dnbatn, relations wnrn frinndly betwnnn the schools. Notre Dame students attnndnd a wine and dwesn party and a dinner with the University of Windsor group. 
"It s<Hmwd like they lthe Univnrsity of Windsor stu­dontsl worn gnnuinnly glad to host us," said freshman Jaek Millhousn, a mmnbnr of SIBC's Finanen and Aceounting divisions. "They treated us well." 
Thn debate wenknnd also grants the studnnts exposuro to oxpnrinneed mernbnrs of the International Politieal Economy field. This ynar, judges of tho dnbatn inelud­ed profnssors and dnans of the University of Windsor as well as a Ford Corporation executive. 
Notre Dame faculty mem­ber and SIBC advisor Susan Soisson accompanied tho students on tho trip. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 



Study in 

TOKYO 
• 
No Japanese language requirement 

• 
Experience Asian culture 

• 
Take courses in Anthropology, Art History, Literature, Theology, Philosophy, Economics, History, Sociology, 


,;·.

and Business 
'' 
INFORMATION 
! 
~ 
"' 
April 5 at 5pm 
f~ 
C0
215 Debartolo 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
Mass 
continued from page 1 
athlete, an actor, a playwright, a poet, a scholar, a teacher and a pastor. 
"He was a son of Poland by birth and deeply rooted in that Catholic culture," Malloy said. "And then one day the church universal called him for that form of special service called the pope." 
Malloy recalled his personal meetings with the pope and their effed on him. 
"I was invited twice to co-cele­brate Mass with him in the papal chapel in Rome," Malloy said. 
Both times, Malloy said, the pope was already on his knees deep in prayer when he entered the room. 
"There was a manifest sense of holiness that exuded· in that place," Malloy said. 
After celebrating Mass, John Paul II would greet visitor after visitor, Malloy said, something that made him greatly loved by the faithful. 
"lie loved Catholic higher edu­cation and he pushed all of us involved in it to be dear about our sense of mission ... and to transform society," Malloy said. 
Malloy also described John Paul II as a model of servitude and a great evangelizer whose extensive travels ignited the faith of millions across the globe. 
"He took seriously the apos­tolic obligation to preach the good news throughout the world," Malloy said. "He knew the value of the media in enhancing his presence." 
Malloy said the pope did not limit himself exclusively to Catholics. Instead, he strove to heal the divisions which split the Christian community. 
John Paul II also reached out in an unprecedented manner to non-Christian faiths. 
"He was the first pope ... to spend time in a synagogue and a mosque," Malloy said. "He knew we have so much in com­mon, that we worship the same God." 
Malloy said the pope showed great courage in speaking out against evil in the world, partic­ularly the Jewish holocaust and Eastern European communism. John Paul II worked tirelessly to create a world in which life is honored and respected, Malloy said. 
"He was an advocate for the poor and defenseless and exer­cised the pontific voice in the face of government and leader­ship," Malloy said. 
Malloy went on to say John Paul II was very conscious of suffering in the world and strug­gled with it himself. Malloy noted even after being shot, the pope traveled to his intended­assassin's jail cell and forgave him. 
In recent years, Malloy said, John Paul II faced a series of serious hpalth problems that made it increasingly difficult to appear and speak in public. 
"As he grew older he had to deal with growing infirmity ... He struggled as someone who was proud of his capacity in front of an audience," Malloy said. 
Malloy spoke encouraging words about the Church's future and the selection of a new Holy Father. 
"We are confident that with the gift of the Holy Spirit those entrusted with choosing his suc­cessor will do the right thing," Malloy said. 
After Mass, dozens of atten­dees filed past a depiction of Pope John Paul II and signed a book honoring the dead. 
First year seminarian student and 2004 Notre Dame graduate Tom Hofmann attended Monday's Mass and said he admired the pope's spiritual guidance. 
"I felt a strong tie with the Holy Father," Hofmann said. "I felt that he led us well and that his issues on life resonated with me." 
Students Ali Donovan and Jamie Grebowski said honoring the pope in the Basilica was especially meaningful. 
"It is a really important event within the Catholic church. This is the only pope I can ever remember," Donovan said. 
Stephenie Tsui called Malloy's homily touching and said although she never had the opportunity to travel to Home to see John Paul II, she was impressed with his willingness to open up the Church to inter­faith dialogue. 
"[Visiting other places of wor­ship] is really good because a lot of people are afraid to [learn about] other people's religions," Tsui said. 
Contact Megan O'Nell at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Cable 
continued from page 1 

tatives met with OIT chief infor­mation officer Gordon Wishon last month to see what processes would have to take place before cable could be approved. As with any technology enhancement, there are many logistic and eco­nomic challenges that must be settled before Student Affairs can approve the cable, including cost and installation fees, Wishon said. 
"The Officers of the University and the Board of Trustees are very sensitive to the cost of tuition, room and board and are not at all anxious to add an even greater burden of cost onto stu­dents and parents," Wishon said. 
He said the University will not be able to absorb the cost of the cable installation and fees due to the range of academic needs competing for scarce funding. 
The other obstacle that student government faces, according to Wishon, is the process of installing the cable into every residence hall and dorm room. 
"Installation of cable in every residence hall would take months," Wishon said. "lltl would btl disruptive to students' lives, since it would involve crews of installers pulling cable through and behind walls, and across ceilings ... in addition, a solution to the problem of the cost of installation and service will need to be found." 
Some students have hooked up satellite television in their dorms, which has 
stirred response. Some men's dorms and many women's dorms do not allow satellites. 
"They're irregular across the board on which dorms allow and which don't allow 
satellites ... There have been some complaints about that," Baron said. 
There has been some concern regarding potentially negative effects of community cable. 
"I question the validity of this," Baron said, explaining that many students move off campus because of the absence of cable, thus damaging the community that is supposed to be preserved. 
He believes the overall benefits of cable for the students are very useful. 
"The academic benefits in terms of access to local, national and world news will be invalu­able," Baron said. 
Wishon agreed, saying the benefits of dorm cable, besides the obvious entertainment value, are many. 
"We would expect to use the 
. cable TV service to deliver con­tent of academic interest, such as foreign language programs, pre-recorded seminars of special interest and distribution of video from live events occurring on campus, such as performances taking place in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center," he said. 
Student government represen­tatives plan to meet this month with the Residence Life Chair and Wishon to discuss what still needs to be worked out before the next step can be taken and the possibility of starting work this summer, Baron said. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 
New Pope," set for Wednesday 
at 10:30 p.m. in Legends. 
On display in the Basilica is a zucchetto -or white skull cap -worn by Pope John Paul II and a crucifix he gave to University President Emeritus Father Theodore Ilesburgh that is modeled after the crucifix on the pontiff's pastoral staff. 
Black bunting will hang 
around the doors of the Basilica 
until a new pope is elected, 
according to Campus Ministry. 
Also, a Book of Remembrance 
for Pope John Paul II is avail­
able in the Basilica for those 
who want to inscribe their 
names to honor his memory. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Funeral 
continued from page 1 

the University's permanent rep­resentative in Rome, Sturin said. 
When Pope John Paul I died in 1978, the University sent Father Bernard Ransing to the funeral. Ransing, a Holy Cross priest, was a member of the Congregation of the Religious in Home. 
Sturin said it is more difficult to have representation in Rome since Notre Dame is not official­ly part of the Church hierarchy. 
"When you consider that about 100 heads of state and government will attend, plus hundreds of cardinals and most of the 3,000 bishops of the church, additional representa­tion might be logistically diffi­cult," he said. "We and other universities serve the church best as academic institutions and not as pastors or superiors, though we have a pastoral func­tion. Our connection to the cen­tral Church is actually through our bishop, Bishop [John! D'Arcy." 
On the campus of Notre Dame, the University has sched­uled a daily rosary and prayer vespers to last through Thursday. It has also scheduled a special "Theology on Tap" with Professor Lawrence Cunningham to discuss "The Conclave and the Election of the 

Registration 411 
(Part 1 of 3 in this issue) 
Vievv Your Registration Status 
Registration Appointments aren't just 15 minutes long anymore. (And they're not called 'Registration Appointments' anymore, either...) 
Find your Registration Time Ticket by clicking on 
View Registration Status in the Student Services 
Channel in insideND: http://inside.nd.edu. 
Registrar Resource Center 
http://registrar.nd.edu/rrc.shtml 
I 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Office of the Registrar 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 CoMPILED FROM T11E ()ssERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Prisoners protest detainees' transfer 
B/\GIII>AI>. Iraq -Prisoners at Iraq's largest dntnntion fadlity protnstml the transl(lr of sev­nral dntainnns dnnmnd "unruly" by authorities, throwing rocks and selling tents on fire in a disturhancn that injurnd four guards and 12 dnt.ainnns, t.hn military said Monday. 
l;riday's protnst at Camp Bucca -which holds ahout 6,000 prisorwrs, nearly two-thirds of all thosn in Iraq -causnd only minor injurins h11forn lwing brought under control, authoritins said. It was llw third major inddnnt al an Iraqi prison in throe days. 
Murtadha al-llajaj, an ofl'ieial at radieal Shiite doric Muqtada ai-Sadr's office in tho soullwrn city of Umm Qasr, near Camp Bucca. said snvnral al-Sadr supportnrs worn woumlnd during t.hn confrontation. lin said they were protnsting a lack of across to medical trnat­nwnt and dainwd U.S. guards opened firo, although lw did not. know if they woundnd pris­orwrs. 
Police battle with Islamic militants 
IU Y/\I> II. Saudi Arabia -Snrurity forces battled llw biggest group of lslarnie militants in a nearly two-ynar campaign against ter­ror. killing snvm1 in a gunhaltle Monday and cornnring up to I 0 ollwrs in an isolatnd dnsnrllown, Saudi oflidals said. 
Thn l'on:ns worn bnsinging tho building in whil:h tlw remaining militants were holed up and lwpnd to takn them alivn. lntnrior Ministry spokesnwn Brig. Mansour al-Turki told Tho /\ssocialnd Prnss. 
!luring llw two-day gunbattle, police had to snal on· a girls' nlnnwntary sdwol in ar-Hass. 1:nnlral Saudi Arabia, 220 miles northwest of l.lw capital. Wlwn the righting quieted. the tmu:lwrs and sludnnts worn evacuated. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Son accepts father's Medal of Honor 
WASIII NGTON -Paul Hay Smith's 11-year­old son, standing only chest-high to President Bush, accepted the nation's highest award for valor on Monday for his late father, who nxposed himself to enmny lim in Iraq and saved alloast I 00 of his li1llow U.S. soldiers. 
Outnurnlwred and nxposnd. Army Sgt. 1st (:lass Smith stayed at his gun, holding back an advandng Iraqi force until a bullet in his head dainwd his life. Bush presented the Medal of Ilonor on the second anniversary of the day Smith died in battle on April 4, 2003, near Baghdad International Airport. 
"The Modal of Ilonor is the highest award for bravery a prnsidnnt can bestow," Bush said in an l•:ast Hoom cernmony that began and ended in prayer. 
Weeklong anti-terror drill begins 
IJII.LSII>I•:, N.J. -The biggest anti-terrorism drill over lwld in the United States got under way Monday with a moek biological attack in Nnw .l1~rsny and a simulated chernkal-weapons explosion in Connecticut. 
Nanwd TOPOFI; 3, the $16 million, weeklong (~xon:isn is meant to lind weak spots in the nation's mnorgency planning. 
"I want to make it dear that we are going to push our plans and our systnms to the very limit," U.S. llomeland Security Secretary Miehael CherlofT said. "So we expect failure because wo're adually going to be seeking to push to failure, and that is ... the best way." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Senate panel approves tax increase 
INI>l/\N/\POLIS-Local ineomo and state eig­arntto and akoholic-beveragn taxes would. go up under legislation a Hepubliean-dominated Senalo panni approved H-4 Monday along party lines. 
llouso Bill I 120 would provide at least $600 million during the next two years to hnlp pay lbr a $24.2 billion Senate Hepublican plan to bal­anr.n tho statn's budget whiln giving publie schools mod1~st annual funding increases. 
Tho 2H4-pago tax bill, which is drawing eon­sidorahlo opposition, also would divert at least $70 million a year from some eommunities. 
John Paul II had presidential influence 
U.S. leaders from yast 26 years identified with many elements of Pope's agenda 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Five American presidents in a row eagerly sought audi­ences with Pope John Paul II, even when the pontiff expressed strong opposition to some of their policies, such as President Clinton's support for abortion rights and President Bush's inva­sion of Iraq. 
!\II live who occupied the While House during John Paul ll's 2(J-year papacy -Cartnr, Heagan, George II.W. Bush. Clinton and Gnorge W. Bush -beat a path to the Vatican. 
The eurrnnt president vis­itnd the pope in Horne three times in his first term, most recently in Juno. 
"Every American presi­dent, whether Hnpublican or Democrat, could find ele­ments of John Paul II's agenda to agrne with," said James Guth, a speeialist in religion and polities at Furman University in Greenville, S.C. 

"Conservative Hepublicans identified with his role in the downfall of the Soviet com­munism, his concern for moral issues like abortion and euthanasia that have become part of the Hepublican party platform," Guth said. "At the same time, Democrats reeognized When the current presi­dential historian at "The Catholics havn tho pope's travels through­dent called on the pope in American University in blended in," said the Hev. out the Third World, his June, he presented the pon­Washington. Gerald Fogarty, a Jesuit identilication with the poor tiff with the presidential "He was a very charismat­priest and professor al the of the world." medal of freedom and called ic, significant world figure University of Virginia who 
John Paul II became the him "a devoted servant of with tens of millions of fol­specializes in U.S.-Vatican lirst pope to visit the White God." lowers in the United Statns relations. House when Carter warmly Bush sat stoically as the and hundreds of millions of But Fogarty suggested it weleomed him in 1979. That pontiff read with a frail followers worldwide," was not solnly fondnnss fill' kicked off a string of fre­voice a lengthy statement Lichtman said. the pope that motivated U.S. quent and high-profile expressing "grave concern" Lichtman also said the presidents to seek him out. meetings between the pon­about events in Iraq. Bush magnetic appeal of John Heagan's decision in 19H4 till' and U.S. presidents. brightened as the pope con­Paul II to U.S. presidents to send an ambassador to 
The pope received Carter eluded the session with coincided with a lessening of the Vatican helped him gain at the Vatican the following "God bless the United anti-Catholic sentiment in more inlluenee over outspo­year. Heagan met with John States." the United States. ken American Catholic bish­Paul fl four times -twice at Bush later told an audi­"When Heagan estab­ops, Fogarty suggestnd. the Vatican, twice in the ence of Catholics, "Being in lished formal diplomatic Clinton's ovnrturns to thn United States. The l'irst his presence is an awesome relations with the Vatican, it pope, hn said, wern part of a President Bush visited the experience." was very controversial," strate1-,ry "to rncreate the old pope twiee in the Vatican. It is only natural that U.S. Lichtman said, noting that allianen bntwenn Catholics 
Clinton met with him four presidents wanted to been Beagan sought the Rev. Billy and thn Dnmocratic party." times -in the United States seen with the globe-trotting Graham's help in trying to The currnnt president's in 1993, 1995 and 1999 and pope from Poland, said smooth things over with wooing of the popn and at the Vatican in 1994. Allan J. Lichtman, a presi-evangelical leaders. Catholil; votnrs paid ofT. 

MEXICO 

Third World seeks pope from its own ranks 
. Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY -As cardinals rushed to the Vatican on Sunday to begin the process of selecting a new pope, many back home were asking a pointed question: If most of the world's Roman Catholics live in the developing world, why has every pope bnen European? 
The possibility that the next pope could come from Latin America, Africa or Ac;ia is creating a buzz from Mexico 
. City to Manila, from Tegucigalpa to Kinshasa. Many Latin American Catholics said the only way to improve on a papacy they overwhelmingly sup­ported would be to select someone from their own ranks. 

Their hopes were fueled by the last papal conclave, in which a Polish arch­bishop became the first non-Italian pope in 455 years, as well as by the global outreach John Paul II made the cornerstone of his papacy. They also have been boosted by sheer numbers: Half the world's 1 billion Homan Catholics live in Latin America alone, and the church is seeing explosive growth in Africa and Asia. 
Even outside Homan Catholicism. loaders from the developing world saw a chance for change. 
"We hop11 that perhaps the cardinals when they meet will follow the Jirst non-Italian pope by electing the first African pope," Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu said Sunday from Capn Town, South Africa. 
Many Catholies in poor countries said a pope from their own rngions would better undnrstand the chal­lenges they face, and would makn tho church morn rnlevant in the livns of iLo.; increasingly diverse follownrs. 
"It will further hnlp tho church. whose membership is growing fastest in Ac;ia, Africa and I.atin 1\mnrica, if a new popP. emergns from onn of thosn areas," said lsidorn Chukwunmnka, a Catholic in Lagos, Nigeria. "That will help build loyalty in tho universal church and reassure people that llw rich countries arn not calling thn shots." 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
Copy 
continued from page 1 
process, the committee will then evaluate the responses and make a decision whether or not to consolidate. 
A possible location for this production center has not been named and Gibney guesses the committee will not reach a decision until late May. 
Tim Wright, manager of ND Print Services in OIT and owner of Copy Wright, Inc., which owns and operates the Copy Shop in LaFortune, is already preparing for a defi­nite closing of ND Print Services. 
Whatever the committee decides, "ND Print Services lin OIT] will be closed and [we] will transition ND Print Services to the Copy Shop [in LaFortune]." Wright said. 
Wright said this transition has been underway since he became manager in 2002. He said he was hired knowing "eventually ND Print Services would go away." 
OIT Director of Resource Management Craig Fitch said any change is "still going through the proposal process" and he is not "at liberty to say" whether or not ND Print Services' location in OIT will be shut down. 
"The services will not go away, just where and how they are provided could change," Fitch said. 
Though there are eight other copy centers on campus, the OIT location has been responsible for printing flip­books for art students' final projects. 
Wright, who speculates the OIT location will be closed by mid-April, said the equipment used for this printing might be returned to Xerox before the end of the semester. A five­year lease with Xerox expired this year. 
Wright said he has· contact­ed other vendors with the hope of obtaining equipment needed for the flipbook print­ing. 
He said the Lafortune Copy Shop could provide the print­ing for this semester's proj­ects with new equipment. 
Contact Katie Scarlett O'Hara at kohara2@nd.edu 

1:~o-:~.:.~o p.m. 
COR 
continued from page 1 
~ 

great job preparing statistics whenever we need them." 
Michael King was approved as Web site administrator for the second consecutive year. Kozlow said King's experi­ence would help him contin­ue to improve the Web site. 
King said he hopes his work on the Web site will help draw more students to it. 

"We're going to try to make the website more appeaHng so students know what is going on in student govern­ment," King said. 
Finally, the Council approved Chad Bassett as Student Union Board director of operations. 
"Chad has incredible pro­fessional skills ~UJd strong business skills," SUB manag­
er Jimmy Flaherty said. "He has demonstrated tremen­dous time management skills." 
After all nominations were approved, Baron told repre­sentatives about the direction he hopes COR will take in the coming year. 
"COR has the best perspec­tive, since we gather all the campus leaders into one room," Baron said. "COR is a think tank, a sounding board, a spitball for various topics." 
Baron also promised to have at least one topic to dis­cuss at every COR meeting. 
"We'll talk about everything from campus beautification to the University's Catholic character," he said. "We 'II bring in student speakers to tell us what they are doing on campus." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
• 

Community boasts largest private airfield 

Re~·1in~1 by novelist ,Jnd .short story writer l<itt.:iwnr.e Vaz 
4:~o· s:3o p.m. Reading t'JY .Joum~!lst.,. novelist, .and poet Demetria Martinez 
7:oo··8:3o p.m Reading by novelist Md short story writl!r Tlm Geutte()U>i 


Tuesday, April 5 
noo a.m.··12:30 p.m. Roundtablt:: dtsc:usslon t~atur:ng all four wr:ters Chalred by Valerie $Qyers ~r:d O,mpb~li ftving 
All events free and open to the public. All events take place in the McKenna Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. 
The Aesthetics of Belief Conference for Catholic Writers 
April 3-5, 2005 
Associated Press OCALA, Fla.-John Travolta has a thing for airplanes. He likes flying them. He likes hearing them. When he wakes up, he likes looking out the window and seeing his Gulfstream II jet and Boeing 707 in the front yard. As it so happens, whenever Travolta steps out -say, to a movie set or one of his homes in Maine or California -he hops into one of his jets, taxis on down the street to the com­munity runway and lifts off, unfettered by autograph junkies, Sunday drivers or road hogs. Ah, the joy of residing in Jumbolair Aviation Estates, an exclusive, 550-acre "fly-in community" with a $6 million runway -the largest, paved, private airfield in the United States. Once a home to African croc­odiles, elephants, white rhinos and a 400-pound gorilla named Mickey, Jumbolair is fast becoming a sanctuary for comfort creatures whose most common desire is to eat, sleep and play within shouting dis­tance of their flying machines. The idea of parking one's wings next to one's abode is hardly novel; there are rough­ly 400 airparks across the United States where homes with private hangars are built around tarmacs and airstrips. But some fly-in communities rise above the rest. There's "Spruce Creek," in Daytona Beach, Fla., which offers 18 holes of golf, a clubhouse and a flying school; there's "Mountain Air" in Burnsville, N.C., which has an 18-hole 
Sunday, April 3 
;.::,lv-9:0;.:> p,rn. Open~ng remarks.. read~ng bv poet, s<hd!lr, ,md biogr~pher P.au: Man.anl 
Monday, April 4 
MOUNTAINTOP course, an award-winning clubhouse, lodge, and eight miles of hik­ing trails through the Blue Ridge Mountains; there's "Lajitas," in Lajitas, Texas, between the Big Bend National Park and the Texas State Park, which has TWO championship golf courses, quail hunting grounds, equestrian activities, tennis courts, a spa, and gour­met dining. 
And then there's Jumbolair. 
Carved into the hilly horse country of central Florida, this retreat markets itself as America's "premier residential aviation community." For day­trippers, it promises "extreme luxury"; for homebuyers, "a lifestyle and a dream that few people will ever experience." 
· Amenities? 

There's a Nautilus Center, a wet bar with billiard table, Olympic-sized pool, tennis cen­ter, conference halls, 9,000­square-foot ballroom (where two gourmet cooks, Sean and Farrell, spoil guests at tea­time with sweet-potato pan­cakes layered with salmon, poached eggs and dill hol­landaise), stables, and, for res­idents who walk their stallions daily, several hundred acres of untrammeled pasture. 
Along a sandy road lined with monstrous, 200-year-old oaks and a meadow of grazing thoroughbreds, stands a white, Old-South-style mansion deco­rated with more than 2 million fine-art antiques: the Jumbolair Inn and Country Club. 
There are five suites at this inn. Each has a huge bath­room with stuff like bright red, claw-footed soaking tubs, gold­plated fixtures, porcelain tiling. Two share a balcony with vistas of meadows, horse barns, and, not to forget, the mansion of Mr. Saturday Night Fever himself. 
What makes Jumbolair the envy of all airparks is not Travolta, though; it's the run­way. 
This one is 7,550 feet long, 250 feet wide, and elevated (100 feet, to keep the runway from flooding during down­pours). At the north end is a 10-acre landing pad. Along the sides runs ground lighting, for night owls. 
Taxiways lead to the pilots' homes. (To avoid chance run­ins between aircraft and four­wheeled vehicles, each home­site has a street in the front and a taxiway at the rear.) 
And, although commercial airports often build runways longer than 8,000 feet, a pri­vate airstrip the magnitude of Jumbolair's isn't likely to be duplicated soon, the pricetag being the main inhibitor. 
Terri Jones-Thayer, a one­time model (Revlon's perfumed "Charlie" girl of yore), and her husband, Jeremy Thayer, owner of an upscale custom­jewelry outfit, are developing Jumbolair together. They take a certain pride in knowing that any jet, fighter or otherwise, can land just a few hundred yards from their mailbox. 
To borrow a term used by some locals, they are "unique." 
Says Jones-Thayer, "You know, we have NEVER had to advertise Jumbolair. Not once. It's all word of mouth." 

Says her spouse, "We're pri­vate, secluded, very discreet. And just imagine: You can fly any sized jet in here, and after just a few steps you're at our inn." How much does a night at Tara cost? Four hundred dollars, which, in Thayer's estimation is a real bargain. 
"The Tennessee Blackberry Inn costs $1,000 a night. Of course, you can't compare that to this. THIS is a lot nicer." 
This, at one time, was a Vanderbilt retreat, a head­quarters for Nautilus, a playpen for baby elephants. 
Its name, Jumbolair, was the invention of Arthur Jones, the man who brought us Nautilus, and it happened this way: 

In the '70s, the 54-year-old inventor w.as looking for a youthful, diamond-cut face to attach to his fitness equip­ment, and he found it on a Pepsi billboard: the mug of Terri Brantner, 16, a former "Miss Florida Pre-Teen." 
CHILDREN AND CHILDHOOD IN GRECO-ROMAN ANTIQUITY APRIL 8-9, 2005 Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall 
Friday, April 8, 2005 

9:15  Keith Bradley, Welcome  
9:25  David Ladouceur, Introducing Children in Antiquity  
9:50  Mark Golden, Children's Deaths and Parental Responses among the Greeks and Romans  
10:40  Break  
11 :00  Christopher McLaren, Childhood, Play and Riddling in Heraclitus  
12:00  Lunch  
2:00  Marc Kleijwegt, The Mechanics of Parental Love: Slavery, Surrogate Children and the Appropriation  
of Love in the Roman World  
2:50  Mary Rose D'Angelo, Childhood and Early Christian Family Values  
3:40  Break  
4:00  Daniel Sheerin, Early Christian Views of Child Abuse  
5:00  Reception  

Saturday, April 9, 2005 

9:15 Keith Bradley, Welcome 
9:20 Richard Saller, Children in the Roman Economy 
10:10 Jonathan Edmondson, The Children of Roman Spain 
11:00 Break 

11:15 Martin Bloomer, Out of Infancy: the Grammar of Child Development in Quintilian 
12:15 Lunch 

1:45 Beryl Rawson, Other Disciplines, New Methodologies: A Key to the Future? 
2:35 Break 

2:45 Keith Bradley, Reflections on Children in Antiquity 
3:05 Roundtable Discussion 
The study of children and childhood is currendy one of the most prominent areas of international research in the social and cultural history of Greco-Roman antiquity. How children lived their lives in ancient Greece and Rome, how d1ey were perceived, socialized, and prepared for adult life are all subjects of ongoing debate. This conference brings together scholars from the international community and scholars from Notre Dame engaged in research on children in antiquity. Together they will present papers on a wide array of subjects, examining the place and roles of children in Greco-Roman, and early Christian, society from ideological, philosophical, cultural, sexual, economic, demographic, affective, and educational points of view. 
Free and open to the public 
• 

A conference sponsored by the Department of Classics, The Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts (Henkels Lecture Series), and the Office of the Provost, University of Notre Dame . 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, April ), 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,425.87 +21.57
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,452 137 • 1,504,987,210 
AMEX I,460.34 -2.57 
NASDAQ I ,991.05 0.00 NYSE 7,130.57 -5.97 S&P 500 I, 175.36 +2.44 NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,667.54 -56.09 FTSE IOO(London) 4,X96.70 -17.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) +0.84 +.304 36.504 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.54 +0.13 24.25 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.11 +0.12 17.72 MCIINC (MCIP) -1.70 -0.43 24.86 INTEL CP (INTq -0.09 -0.02 22.99 

30-YEAR BOND -0.0.6 -0.03 47.26 I 0-YEAR NOTE -0.07 -0.03 44.48 5-YEAR NOTE -0.34 -0.14 41.11 3-MONTH BILL -1.47 -0.40 26.87 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.27 57.27 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.30 426.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.53 94.40 
Excha Rates 

YEN 108.2300 EURO 0.7782 POUND 0.5331 CANADIAN$ 1.2213 
IN BRIEF Shipping line guilty of waste dumping 
LOS ;\N(;I~LES -;\ Panamanian shipping linn on Monday pleaded guilty to more than two down counts of illegal waste dumping around the Unitml Stat11s and was ordered to pay $25 million in 01111 of the largest fines ever imposml on an oenan pollutnr. 
l~vnrgrnnn lntnrnational. one of the world's largnst shipping lines, eoneealed Uw discharge of' wastn oil. ohstruetml Coast (;uard inspec­tions and altnrnd rneords for thrne years end­ing in 200 I. fndnral ollieials said. The eompa­ny nntnred its plna in U.S. District Court in Los ;\ngnlns to 24 fdony counts and one misde­nw<wor. 
U.S. attornnys from fivn jurisdictions affeet­nd by tlw pollution -Los Angnles. Seattle, Portland, Orn., Nnwark, N.J. and Charleston, 
S.C. -hailnd the plea agreemnnt as a major victory in the fight against shipping eompanies trying to skirt tlw law. 
"W11 tak11 th11s11 crimes very seriously and if tlwy won't polien tlwmsnlves, we will do it for thnm," Christophnr Christie, U.S. Attorney for the Distriet of' Nnw Jersey, said on a doek across from Evergreen's shipping yard in San Pedro, Calif'. "You can't lie to tho federal gov­nrnnwnt with impunity and get away with it." 
Judge approves sale of ATA Holdings 
INDI;\N;\POI.IS -;\ f'nderal bankruptcy judge on Monday approvnd thn sale of ;\T;\ Holdings Corp.'s Chicago Express commuter airlinn to an Indianapolis n~al estate invest­nwnt and management firm. 
Okun Enterprisns lne. had tho winning bid at tho auetion of the regional airline Thursday, three days after ;\TA elosed Chicago ExprPss· opPrations. Owner Edward Okun also agrond to purchase t.wo of ;\T;\'s Saab 340B aircraft. 
Okun will pay betweon $3 million and $4 million for Chicago Express' assets and $2.44 million for two :{4-seat Saab 340 turboprop aireraft. 
Tho sale was subjoet to regulatory approval and was sdwdulml to dose by May 4. 
U.S. Bankrupt<~Y Court .Judge Basil Lorch Ill approvml the Chicago Express auction as part of ;\'J';\'s Chaptnr I I rnorganization last month aftor rnhufling a $100,000 oll'or from Boston investor .Jack E. Hobinson's Nat'l'el LLC. 
ChevronTexaco w-ill buy rival Unocal 
Takeover focuses on valuable natural gas sources in Asia and the Gulf of Mexico 
Associated Press 
SAN HAMON, Calif. -ChnvronToxaco Corp., the nation's sncond largnst oil company, is buying smallnr rival Unoeal Corp. fi1r about $16.4 billion. hoping to fur­thor nhwatn iL'i alrnady surg­ing profits by boosting its oil and natural gas supplios in Asia. 
Thn dnal announced Monday proposns to unitn San Hamon-basod Chnvron­Tnxaeo, whid1 trails only to 1\xxon Mobil Corp. in the 
U.S. oil business, with El Segundo-based Unoeal, the nation's ninth biggest oil and gas produetion eornpany. 
ClwvronToxaco initially valtwd its 1u~quisition price, consisting of stock and cash, at $h2 per share, noarly 4 percent bnlow Unoeal's dos­ing prie11 last week. 
The otTer disappointed investors, who had driven up Unoeal's market value by 20 percont since the media reported ChevronTexaco's was discussing a possiblo takeover a month ago. Unocal's shares slipped $4.74, or 7.4 percent, to $59.61 during Monday afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange, while ChevronTexaco's shares fell $2.16, or 3.6 per­cent, to $57.15. 

;\s part of the deal, ChevronTexaco will assume $1.6 billion of Unoeal's debt $300 billion in revenue last part of the world could ferenee call. and sell about $2 billion in year. shape up as a potential gold Like other major oil com­assets. Unocal has been consid­mine for ChevronTexaco panies, ChevronTexaeo 
ChevronTexaco Chairman ered an attractive takeover beeause China and India are already has been nourish­David O'Reilly told reporters target for years, largely eonsuming more energy to ing, thanks largely to a rapid Monday that he expects the because of its valuable fuel their economies, a phe­run-up in oil priees that has proposed takeover to cache of natural gas in Asia nomenon likely to drive up puslwd U.S. gasoline prices receive the required regula­and oil in the Gulf of Mexico. prices for years to come. well over $2 per gallon, tory approvals so it ean be The company reportedly Unocal's oil supplies in the squenzing consumors and eompletnd before year's end. drew interest from the Gulf of Mexico also figure to businosses alike. 
Based on the two eompa­China National Offshore Oil give ChevronTexaco even ChevronTexaco earned nies' most recent results, Corp., a large state-owned more clout in the North $1 :~.3 billion last ynar, thn ChevronTexaco would have company, and Italian oil American oil and gasoline most profitable year since iL'> annual sales of about $163 company Eni SpA before markets. inception in 1 X79, and billion after the acquisition settling on a sale to O'Heilly predietod Unoeal Unoeal earned $1.21 billion is completed. That means ChevronTexaco. would "fit like a glove" with last ynar. the combined company still ChevronTexaco prizes ChevronTexaco. "This O'Heilly is betting that would be far smaller than Unoeal for its natural gas squarely fits with our key ChovronTnxaco ean make Irving, Texas-based Exxon supplies in Asia, O'Heilly objectives," O'Heilly told money by drawing on Mobil, whieh rang up nearly said. That rapidly growing reporters in a Monday eon-Unocal's energy supplies. 

Stocks decrease despite weak job report 
jobs report, which showed that only retreated. The Standard & Poor's
Associated Press 

110,000 new jobs were created in 500 index was down 9.:n. or O.X 
NEW YOHK -Signs of strong March -half of the 220,000 econo­percent, at 1,171.26, and the Nasdaq growth in the service seetor and mists had expected. February's fig­compositn index dropped 13.50, or another jump in oil prices spooked ure also was revised lower by 19,000 0.7 percent, to l ,9X5.73. investors Friday, pushing stocks jobs. The nation's unemployment The bond market reversed thrnn lower even as a weaker-than-expect­rate fell to 5.2 percent from 5.4 per­sessions of gains aftnr the ISM serv­ed job creation report alluded to a cent in February. ices report, with the yield on the I 0­slowing economy that might forestall "We rallied nicely on the jobs year Treasury note rising to 4.53 inflation. In afternoon trading, the report, but then we got a conl1icting pereent from 4.48 percent on Dow Jones industrial average was message from the ISM report. That Thursday. The dollar was mixed down more than 100 points. report doesn't usually carry as much against other major eurroncins, 
The early release of the Institute weight, but it hit the bond market while gold prices fell. for Supply Management's serviee hard, and that moved to stoeks pret­;\ sharp juinp in oil prices also sector index, which wasn't due until ty quickly," said Brian Pears, head sapped investors' eonfidenee. ;\ bar­Tuesday, showed greater-than­equity trader at Victory Capital rel of light crudn at onn point expected growth in non-manufactur­Management in Cleveland. "In a reaehnd a new high of $57.70, up ing businesses -worrying skittish market where we're really this nerv­$2.30, on thn New York Mercantile investors that inflation might yet ous to begin with, it only takes a lit­Exchange. take hold and prompt the Federal tle bit to turn things around." "The 800-pound gorilla in the mid­Heserve to push for potentially jar­In afternoon trading, the Dow dle of the room is the lift in oil ring interest rate hikes. Jones industrial average fell 102.64, pri<:es," said ;\.C. Moore, ehinf 
That announcement stole momen­or 1 percent, to 10,401.12. investment strategist for Dunvegan tum from the Labor Department's Broader stock indicators also Assoeiates in Santa Barbara, Calif. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
Authorities thw-art mobsters' Vegas escape 
New York cops moved to the Sin City to escape their past, but local officials refused to forget 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -The two men entered Piero's Italian Cuisine, a dimly lit restaurant just off the Strip where a scene from the gangster movie "Casino" was filmed. 
It could be a typical eatery in New York, where the men, Louis Eppolito and Stephen Caracappa, had been police detectives before retiring to the desert good life about a decade ago. They'd worked closely on the NYPD, and when they moved with their families to Las Vegas they bought neighboring houses. Dinners out were a relaxing ritu­al, one in which the two could confide in each other and talk old times. 
But as they walked toward the maitre d's stand at Piero's on the night of March 9, surrounded by heavy oak paneling and white tablecloths, the familiar scene 
IRAN 

suddenly soured. 
About a dozen DEA and FBI agents converged on the pair. They threw the lanky Caracappa and the barrel-chested Eppolito against the wall and handcuffed them. Tucked in Eppolito's waistband, agents found a loaded and chambered .45-cal­iber semiautomatic handgun. 
The best friends said nothing, but their· expressions were ashen as they were whisked off to a local jail, to be held without bail until federal marshals shipped them back to New York for trial. 
Eppolito, 56, and Caracappa, 63, were charged with eight murders, two attempted mur­ders, murder conspiracy, obstruction of justice, money laundering and drug distribution in one of the worst corruption cases in the annals of the New York Police Department. 
Even the most seasoned law enforcement officers were shocked by the allegations ­that the two ex-cops had worked for organized crime, supplying lethal information about inform­ants and even serving as mob hit men. 
"I have never dealt with any­thing this egregious," said John Peluso, assistant special agent in charge of the DEA's New York field office, who ran the investi­gation and helped collar the alleged Mafia cops. 
"They are toxic." Las Vegas is all about second chances. 
For a decade after leaving New York, Eppolito and Caracappa had their second chance. The former detectives apparently believed they were untouchable because only one or two people could actually put the finger on them, said a law enforcement source who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
"Anyone that goes 10 years without incident," Peluso said, "would certainly believe they're in the clear." 
Twice before, Eppolito had been cleared in investigations of purported mob ties. 
In 1984, FBI agents had searched the New Jersey home of Rosario Gambino, a Sicilian mobster, and discovered a confi­dential police file. It was the same folder that a detective had given Eppolito less than a year before. 
How did it get in the Mafioso's house? Inyestigators suspected Eppolito. His photocopied finger­prints were on the file, and the FBI said the copies were made at his precinct. There also was an inconclusive photograph of Eppolito with Gambino. 
On the morning of Nov, 24, 1984, the details of the probe were leaked and ran in the New York Daily News. 
President solicits support for nuke program 
Associated Press 

VIENNA -Iranian President Mohammad Khatami appealed Monday to the United States to drop its opposition to his coun­try's nuclear activities -pro­grams Washington says are dir!')cted at making weapons. 
On an official visit to Austria, Khatami also expressed regret at the loss of American lives in Iraq, but suggested the violence there was unleashed by the U.S. invasion that led to Saddam Hussein's toppling nearly two years ago. 
Iranian-American relations are frigid -President Bush has list­ed the Islamic Republic, along with North Korea and prewar Iraq, as forming an "axis of evil," and Tehran regularly accuses the Bush administration of unwarranted hostility. 
Khatami's appeal for U.S. acceptance of Iran's program and his comments about the American deaths were thus in stark contrast to Iran's usual harsh anti-American rhetoric. 
"We urge the Europeans as well as the Americans to support us ... in being able to cover our electricity (needs) with the atom," said Khatami, whose comments in Farsi were trans­lated into German. 
Terror and violence in Iraq is causing suffering not only to the local population but "also the young Americans ... (who) fall there and are victims," he said after meeting with Heinz Fischer, his Austrian counterpart. 
The softer tone was possibly an effort to sway the European Union during talks the Europeans hope will lead to Iran committing to indefinitely sus-pend work on uranium enrich­throughout the talks, Iran has ment. insisted its freeze is temporary 


But despite the mild language, and short-term. Khatami continued to insist on Confirming Iranian reports, Iran's right to enrichment -Israeli officials in Jerusalem and which can create both fuel for diplomats based in Vienna said energy and the core of nuclear Monday that Iran recently weapons -saying his country's offered to give EU inspectors or 
"rights"  to  the  experts from the  
technology were guaranteed by international laws.  "We urge the Europeans as well  International Atomic Energy Agency full access  
Iran has been under intense international  as the Americans to support us.,,  to all Iranian nuclear sites if it were allowed to  
scrutiny since the  run approximately  
discovery  more  Mohammad Khatami  3,000 centrifuges  
than two years ago  president  -the key enrich­ 

that it had been conducting clan­destine work on nuclear enrich­ment for nearly two decades. 
Iran has suspended enrich­ment and related activities while it negotiates with France, Germany and Britain -talks which the three European pow­ers hope will lead to a perma­nent end to enrichment. But 
ment equipment. 

An Israeli official said Israeli Brig. Gen. Yossi Kupperwasser told a meeting of the Israeli foreign affairs and defense committee in parliament that the Iranians pledged to keep the level of enrichment at 3.5 percent -far below the 90 per­cent-plus needed to make nuclear weapons. 
Siz~lene (Sizzlelini®)­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95!

Sizzle-
in:: 
A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with
Bellin· ··· 
a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti.

Tuesdays B;:)-Iefie (Bellini) ­
A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 


The Europeans appeared eager to consider the proposal, Kupperwasser was quoted as saying. But the diplomats in Vienna -who like the Israelis demanded anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the nego­tiations -said France, Germany and Britain continued to insist on full and long-term suspen­sion. 
Khatami was scheduled to meet with French President Jacques Chirac in Paris on Tuesday on the sidelines of a meeting of the U.N. Education Scientific and Cultural Organization. Chirac and Khatami were likely to focus on the nuclear negotiations. 
On Iraq, Khatami said it had become "a center for terrorist and violent activities" only fol­lowing the U.S.-led invasion. He said his country supported efforts to establish a pluralistic government in the neighboring country that is "not subject to pressure from outside." 
Helpers trip up sensors 
Patrol complains about volunteers 
Associated Press 

TOMBSTONE -Volun­teers who have converged on the Mexican border to watch for illegal immigrants are dis­rupting U.S. Border Patrol operations by unwittingly tripping sensors that alert agents to possible intruders, agency officials complained Monday. 
Scores of participants in the Minuteman Project began assembling late last week and clusters of volunteers began regular patrols Monday, in an exercise some law enforce­ment authorities and civil rights groups fear will result in vigilante violence. Many of the volunteers were recruited over the Internet, and some planned to be armed. 
Over the past few days, they have set off sensors, forcing agents to respond to false alarms, said Supervisory Border Patrol Agent Jose Maheda. 
"Now we not only have to look out for aliens and drug smugglers, now we have to look out for these untrained civilians who are unfamiliar with the landscape," Border Patrol spokesman Andy Adame said. 
Adame said apprehension numbers have gone down since the volunteers arrived, an indication fewer people might be trying to cross. But he also noted the Mexican military and police have apparently been conducting an operation south of the bor­der town of Naco, which tends to drive down cross­ings. 
"No one's crossing and that was the goal, to show the gov­ernment that if we have peo­ple out here no one's going to cross," said Chris Simcox, Minuteman field operations director. 
of a microwave oven, DVD player or a Spot Cleaner for carpet*** All regular 1 bedroom apts. $549-00 mo. 
Two bedrooms start at ~715.00 mo. bedroom, den &loft ~92.5.00 mo. 



High Speed Wireless Internet CC>mputer Center w/ high speed internet Gated Community • Free Tanning ,'"'"~~~to Notre. Dame • Racquet and Handball. Courts Relaxing Jacuzzi and Sauna New Fitness Center • Beach Volleyball Sparkling Heated Pool • Use of Indoor Heated Pool ShortTerm Fully Furnished 1 & 2 Bedroom Suites 
Open 7 Days a Week www.cppj.com Call NOW 574-272-8110 
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Net-works to run religious sho~s 
Television industry placing new faith in ecclesiastical programming 
Associarcd Press 
LOS ANGELES -Tho Gospel according to Mol. as tlw TV industry viPws it. is that reli­gion sells. 
With Mel Gibson's "The Passion of' tlw Christ" ranknd among tlw I 0 higlwst-grossing movies ovor and with glowing visions of "Tho Da Vinei Codn" profits before thnm, TV not­works are embracing a now­found faith. 
A minisories about tho Book of Hnvolation airs next week, whilo shows about a Catholic priest probing the supernatural and an Episcopalian minister who converses with God arn on tho drawing hoard. 
Traditionally soft-focused spirituality, exemplified by "Touched hy an Angel" and ".Joan of Arcadia," is giving way to programs rc10tod in spe­cifk religions and their ele­nwnts. 
Do networks have a prayer of turning stronger faro into rat­
ings wimwrs'?  
Thorn arn btdievnrs  - espe­ 
cially thoso conrwetod  to tho  

shows-and doubters. 
Whon "Hnvolations'' was pitr.lwd to four notworks, they "all bit." said nxocutivo pro­ducor Gavin Palone, who sold tho projoet to NBC before Gibson's film was released. Debuting April 13, the minis­eries is about a scientist and a nun invnstigating evidence that the "End of Days" as predietnd in the Bibln is near. 
"The Book of Daniel." about a ministm (Aidan Quinn) who abuses prescription drugs and is visitnd by a "cool, contempo­rary .Jesus." is in development at NBC. Fox is working on "Briar + Graves," a pilot about a priest teaming with a neurol­ogist to examine unexplained flvents. 
"I think the thing that's sur­prising is that it's taken them so long," Palone said. "We've always lived in a eountry that was distinctly religious, a country that believes in God. 
"The fact that the entertain­ment industry has not reflected it and has been so fearful of portraying it on screen says more about executives in the movie and television industry as opposnd to the eountry," he said. 
The public's appetite for reli­gious-themed projects has nmnrged as broadcasters con­tinue their quest for edgy pro­gramming able to competn with unfettered cable shows such as IIBO's "The Sopranos" and FX's "The Shield." 
But network executives shouldn't necessarily let Gibson's success go to their head, said media analyst Larry Gerbrandt. 
"If you're going to depict spirituality on television, to reach the 'Passion of the Christ' audience, it has to res­onate as truth, as authentic, if that's what you're going for," said Gerbrandt. who said he was speaking as both an ana­lyst and a Christian. 
If "Hevelations," for instancr. doesn't exhibit fidelity to its source, he said, "I either find it offensive or say, 'Oh, there's just one more producer looking for a cheap hook."' 
One producer, whose drama about a priest lasted a few scant months in the 1997-98 season on ABC, has his own reservations about whether bold network shows about faith are feasible. 
"Nothing Sacred," created by David Manson and Bill Cain, a Jesuit priest, won critical acclaim and awards but could­n't eapture an audience. 
"I think people like their reli­gion spoon-fed, and that's not the way we approached it," Manson said. "We weren't doing 'Touched by an Angel,' we weren't doing a sort of sim­ple, all-embracing spirituality that didn't ask any questions. 

Newspapers nab Pulitizer Prizes 
Associated Press 
NI\W YOHK -The Los Angnlns Times and The Wall Street .Journal captured two Pulitzer Prizes apiece Monday, with tho Times winning the public service award for nxposing raeial injustice at an inrwr-city hospital and the .Journal citnd for its incisive stories about the plight or can­cer survivors. 
Two other entrios with med­ical thmnes wore honored as wnll. Deanne Fitzrnaurico of the San Francisco Chronicle won in fnature photography for a photo essay on an Oaklc~nd hospital's effort to mend an Iraqi boy nearly killed by an explosion. And Boston Globe rnporter Gareth Cook's story detailing tho complex seiontific and nthieal dimensions of storn-eell research won for explanatory journalism. 
The Associated Press won in breaking news photography for a series of pictures of bloody combat in Iraq. The award was the AP's 48th Pulitzer. 
As a crowd gathered around the photo desk at AP head­quarters. President and CEO Tom Curley stood atop a chair beside Executive Editor Kathleen Carroll to congratu­late the staff. 
"These folks showed incredi­ble eourage this year," Curley said. "They took some extraor­dinary pictures, they captured some incredible moments in history and they did it in a way that made all of us proud." 
Unlike last year, when the Los Angeles Times won five Pulitzers, this year's awards were widely distributed. The Star-Ledger of Newark, N.J., won in breaking news for its 
coverage of New Jersey Gov. James E. McGreevey's resigna­tion after he admitted having an affair with a male lover who was appointed as the state's director of homeland security. 
It was only the paper's sec­ond Pulitzer in 173 years, and its newsroom erupted in exul­tation when the award was announced. "It's very satisfying because it's an award for the whole paper," said Star-Ledger Editor Jim Willse, who estimat­ed that about 100 staffers were involved in the coverage. 
Another story involving a politician's misdeeds -a for­mer governor's sexual miscon­duct with a 14-year-old girl while he was a mayor ­earned Nigel Jaquiss of the Willamette Week of Portland, Ore., a Pulitzer for investiga­tive reporting. 

On CAmpus Q&"AcfuAtioo lil'eekeocf ~peeiAI 
tltJAU 11-16, 100J 

Nee(~\ C! plC!ce foy 1.-jDtA.YfC!V~A.Lltj to StC!tj, TY!j tV!e se~cy-e(l\ 1-tee~rt 'PC!risV! ce""ter ("B.tA.tldtll\,g 3i 01' iig5011\, t1DIA.r C~VIA.'fliA.S MCI'fl5.] 
we set C! -t;Jo.oo per perso"" (1\o""C!t/..o"" for tV!e 
weelre.ell\.~. 

..COMS SAR.LY [TVltA.rs(I\C!tj] -STAY LATP [Moii\.OIC!t1]'•-S~V~A.e (1\oV'\..CIH.o"". 
For reserve~ttoii\.S plee~se cC!ll: 'PC!tA.l S(l\(l\t1 Cit s.r'f-G3i-751..:::2. OY MC!rtj Fowftr!reo Cit s.r'f-G31..:!J-43G 


Court says creditors cannot go after IRAs 
Associared Press 
WASIIINGTON The Supreme Court gave bank­rupt Americans another laynr of finaneial protection Monday. ruling that creditors cannot seize their Individual Hctirernent Accounts. 
The unanimous dneision shields a nest egg relied upon by millions of people. The jus­tices said IHAs should join pensions, 401 (k)s, Social Secui-ity and other benefits tied to age, illness or disabili­ty that are afforded protec­tion under federal bankrupt­cy law. 
Justice Clarence Thomas, writing for the court, said a bankrupt Arkansas couple was entitled to keep more than $55,000 in retirement savings from creditors. lie reasoned that IHAs are bene­fits tied to a person's age under the federal statute because a tax penalty is imposed if a person makes withdrawals bnfore age 60. 
"That penalty ereets a sub­stantial barrinr to early with­drawal," Thomas wrote. "Funds in a typical savings account, by contrast, can be withdrawn without age-based penalty." 
The ruling affects 16 statns and the District of Columbia, which do not have their own state laws protecting IHAs. The remaining 34 have sepa­rate state laws on bankruptcy protection, with a few of those, including New York, California and Iowa, that have language mirroring the federal bankruptcy statuto. 
IRAs let most investors eon­tribute up to $4,000 annually to a fund that grows tax-free until withdrawals. It is the retirement plan typically used by workers between jobs, according to AARP, the advo­cacy group for people over 50. 
Unlike many other retire­ment plans, IHAs permit cash withdrawals for any reason at any time, but holders 59 1/2 and younger must pay a 10 percent penalty for doing so. 
Some lower courts had ruled the fact that investors can make IRA withdrawals at any time made the retirement account more like savings accounts, which are unpro­tected from creditors under bankruptcy law. 

In Monday's opinion, how­lwer, Thomas notnd that IHA withdrawals by thosn youngnr than 60 are l'nw, nf'f'netively making the <U~I:ount a berwlit based on age. "The dnternmt to early withdrawal it ernatns suggnsts that Congress designed it to preclude early access to !HAs," hn wrote. 
The ruling eornns at a timn when morn pnopln arn finding themselves in dnbt. Last ynar, about 1.5(> million peopln filed for personal bankruptcy, compared with 875,000 a decade earlier. In 2003, bankruptcy filings peaked at 
1.63 million. 
"We're pleased," said .Jean Constantine-Davis. a senior attorney for AAHP. "It's really important to oneouragn peo­ple to contribute savings in their working years and to kenp .~hosn savings sacro­sanet. 
Tho rase involvns Hiehard and Betty .Jo Housey ol' Berryville, Ark., who aeeumu­Iated $55,000 in eompany­sponsorml pension and 401 (kl plans at Northrop Crumman Corp. before he took narly retirement in 1998. Wlwn Mrs. Housey was laid ofT a month later, they rolled tlw funds over to IHAs. 
The Houseys have been unable to hold down new jobs, partly due to his ehronie back pain, according to their lawyers. Hiehard, 60, and Betty .lo, 57, now live on $2,000 a month. 
Under federal bankruptcy law. their retirement savings won't be given blanket pro­tection. A separate provision in the law shields the assets only to tho extent the money is "reasonably necessary for the support of the debtor and any dependent." 
According to lawyers for AARP, the 16 states principal­ly affected by the ruling aro: Alaska. Arkansas, Conne-cti­cut. Hawaii, Michigan, Minnesota, New llampshirn, New .Jersey, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Hhodo Island, South Dakota, Texas, Vermont, Washington and Wisconsin. The ease is Housey v. Jacoway, 03-1407. 
In other action Monday, tho Suprorn11 Court agreed to consider whother states ean be sued in bankruptey pro­ceedings. 

LSAT Review Course 4 Saturdays 8a.m.-noon April 30-May 21 
Division of Continuing Education IU South Bend 
~---­
Tl···IE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
I'll be watching you
71n lrukpnuknt, Daily Mrwspapl!r Sn-vittg Nom DRm~ and Sai1JI MaryS 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by tbe students of the University of Notre Dame duLac an.d Saint Mary's CoUege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refi.tse advertisements based on contenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing t::ditor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to F.ditor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

n1e Observer (USPS 599 24000) is puhlished Monday throu!(h Friday except during e:.wn and vacatinn periods. Asub.sctipti()n to Tht: Observer is $100 for one J.c:adcmic year; $5S for one semesu:r. 
The Ob~rvcr iJ published ;u; POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addre& correctiom co: Notre Dame, IN 46556..0779 The Observer Periodical post;agc paid .at None Dame w. Bo, 779 and addition;;~! mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
11u: Obsaver is a memher of the Associated Pres:;. All reproduction 'righu. are roerved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Maddie Hanna Dan Tapetillo Katie Perry Matt Lozar Julie Bender Tom Dorwart 
Viewpoint Scene Caroline Murphy Ram a Graphics Gottumukkala Desiree Zamora Illustrator Katie Knorr 
For some, the phrase ''I'll be watching you" might conjure up memories of the '80s and a hit song by Sting and The Police. For others, it will remind you of the '90s travesty ''I'll Be Missing You" by the artist formerly known as Puff Daddy. (I admit Katie Boyle it, I had the single). 
In a post September For liVhat It's 11th era, however, Worth these lyrics evoke an entirely different scenario. 
Woody Allen once quipped, "I believe there is something out there watching us. Unfortunately, it's the government." 
This phrase has become more and more apropos in today's society, and legislation such as the Patriot Act has only enhanced this viewpoint among American civilians. 
For the most part, I don't believe the new laws will have a significant effect on my life, although if the Central Intelligence Agency really wants to see what books I've been checking out of Hesburgh, I sup­pose they now have carte blanche. (Note: they'll learn a lot about terrorism in Spain and Ireland and the nature poetry of Gary Snyder). 
From the amount of money I spend at Martin's to my affinity for Waddick's green tea, I've always felt that in a governmental analysis, my life is sadly (or perhaps fortu­nately) uneventful. 
Still, on principle, I've objected to legis­lation which allows the governrhent to delve into citizens' private records and communication. 
I admit that my stance is somewhat hyp­ocritical. I understand that the govern­ment will violate civil rights in their inves­tigations. If doing so will protect Ameriea from future attacks, I do not always dis­agree with these acts. 
However, to legalize civil rights viola­tions leaves citizens with no recourse should the government choose to abuse this power. 
After spring break, events in my home­town showcased the increasingly frighten-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

ing nature of governmental power in America today. A boy with whom I attend­ed high school was arrested on charges of terrorism. 
His crime? 

A paragraph written in an online blog which was supposedly only to be read by other students at his college. 
In an unsuccessful attempt at humor, he wrote an extraordinarily cliched entry advocating the violent overthrow of the school's security in light of recent drug arrests they'd made. Once brought to the school's attention, they turned the case over to federal authorities, and he was arrested in Milwaukee. 
He currently awaits trial. 
Of course, the school had an obligation to further explore any threats. 1n an era of school shootings, to ignore the real possi­bility of violence on campus would be both irresponsible and foolish. 
I also understand that should the trial go through, and it appears that it will, he has every chance of being declared inno­cent. I don't know every detail of the case which has prompted this federal investi­gation, but, in my opinion, it seems to be a huge overreaction. 
Is failed humor now a felony charge? Would it not behoove authorities to inves­tigate the case to see if it warrants a trial, rather than jumping to the main event? What implications does this case have for free speech on college campuses? 
Clearly, college administrators and police may not know this student well. Honestly, I don't either. However, I can pretty much guarantee you that this lor­mer editor of our high school literary magazine could have written a revolution­ary prodamation much better than the obviously parodied entry that I read ­although the cliches alone may have been a crime. 
I believe everything will work out for this student in the end. He attends one of the top liberal arts colleges in the nation, and has a bevy of eoncerned Whitefish Bay parents talking about his case at home. Not to mention his classmates, who have rallied around his cause with impressive fervor. 
These events, however, prompt further questions: 
What ifsueh accusations were against a more marginalized member of the popu­lation? 
Would such a person have the knowl­edge and resources to work within the system? 
Not all members of society can rely on furor and outery from an influential sector of the populace. In its definition of terror­ism, will America revert to a class system based on wealth and influence? Is free­dom of speech only for those who have the educational and monetary background to effectively articulate themselves? 
In previous cases, the Supreme Court has stated that speech should not be limit­ed unless it directly incites violence. Perhaps authorities believe this college student meant to do so. 
However, the speed with which they earried out the arrest and the trial eclipsed any sort of investigation into the case until after charges were brought. 
Granted, terrorist attacks and school shootings have transformed modern America. The government has a series of new threats against which they must safe­guard civilians. 
Abandoning rationality and prudence in the justice system, however, is not the answer. 
All I can say is, it's a good thing Jonathan Swift isn't writing "A Modest Proposal" today. 
Irony appears to be lost in the United States. 
Katie Boyle is a senior English, political scienc and Spanish major. She can be reached at kboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
For what will you most remember John Paul II? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

1Submit aLetter 
*t th· E.d.'t t
1 o , : :e, ...•.. ··· ... t!IJ ~or a., ~~~ www.ndsmcobserver.eom 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Being deeply loved by someone gives you strength; loving someone deeply gives you courage." 
Lao Tzu Chinese philosopher 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 page II 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Expression does not lnean exclusion 
To bngin, I would likn to congratulate all of tlw pnrfornwrs in this Friday's Latin l~xprnssions pPrforrnance. Your tirolnss efforts made tho show worth watching. My quarrnl is not with you. 
I would al.so likn to rongratulate tho talking !wads who camn on stago botwnnn acts for hav­ing a great 1:omedy routine, and for trying to nndorsn an nthnie "us vs. thmn" mentality with­in tho audinnee. You succnednd marvnlously. 
In fad, you nven 'sucennded in turning was a performance, so lighten up." 
That may bn so, but I could also ask each raindrop if it believed it was responsible for the flood, and in turn, each would respond no. 
Every slur thrown and every ethnie joke slung only lays another briek on the walls that seem to bn forming a barrieadn around dill'erent eth­nic groups. 
One might respond that there was no harm done, and giving shout-outs was only part of the show. I'm sure the Koreans who were 

part of the audinncn against the 
booed might have a different take. 
Koreans. (;ood show. It could havn just been me, a whitn mah1 who happons to nnjoy Latino music, but I fnlt a bit uncornfortablo al'tor they startml giving "shout­outs" and boing groupnd into tlw "ovnryone nlso we did-n't mnntion" catngory. 
l•:uropnans aro a bit loss hornognneous that you'd think. And al'tnr subsm1uent arwedotes about how exdusive the Latino dub is, how no onn nlse can evnr bo, nor evnn understand what it is to lw Latino, and how "you don't know us" no rnattor how rnud1 nxposuro you've had to Latino culture, it was doar that pnrhaps thesn talking 
lwads had lost thnir path in their 
yourself and your time to be special 
zeal to appoal to tho Latino audience. 
Corrnct me if I'm wrong, but Latin l~xpressions was crnated to bn a program in whieh tlw mmnbers aro supposed to express pride.in their hnritage through whatfwer mndi­LIIIl thny dwose, bn it danen, song, poetry or maehet11-winlding (amazing job by the way). 
What Latin Exprnssions was dnfinitely not about is trying to promoto intnr-nthnie eonllict and rivalry. 
"Now hold on," you might say. "It was just playful bant11r. We didn't intend to polarize the audinneo into tlwir constituent ethnic groups. It 
I may be making something out of nothing, but I sure didn't appreciate how the audience was being sectioned off by gnnetic background. I thought Notre Dame was a family. I'm sure 
there will be quite a few minority students nodding their heads 
saying "Well, now you know how we feel." 
Before you think of me as some naive, whiny, white boy, I 
ask you to try and 
understand that per­haps the perpetuation of ethnic divides isn't in 
the best interest of us all. To the talking heads, I say this: Yes, it is your time in history, your time to be proud, your time to distinguish 
and unique 
But it is not your time to put down other non­Latinos as "them" or "others," no matter how good it feels or how funny it might be at the time. No good can come of it. 
I ask that future Latin Expressions talking hPads be more considerate. 
David Prina Knorr Hall freshman April4 

U-WIRE Pope's legacy consistent with life 

Soon after the Polish-born priest was established as the Pope of the Roman 
Staff Editorial 

Catholic Church, he 
returned to University of 
Poland where Texas -Austm 
massive pub­Daily Texan 
lie audiences flocked to him -tllis, at a time 
when Poland was a Warsaw Paet satellite state of the Soviet Union and an ofTicial atheist nation. 
These visits bolstered the Solidarity movement. a Catholic -and CIA-backed trade union that sought to peacefully oppose the Communist Party of Poland. 
By 1989, members of the Solidarity party were allowed to compete in Poland's elections, and Solidarity's successes in gain­ing control of Poland from the country's USSH-baeked leaders, in turn encourag1~d anti-communist movements in other countries as well. 
In 1981, an assassin shot him. lie survived, fittingly -.John Paul II was a man of peace who opposed people of violence and came out ahoad. 
This accomplishment won't bn the only thing history will remem­ber Pope .John Paul II f(Jr. 
He had an interesting life. 
lie traveled morn than any other pope, meeting rnligious and spiritual loaders, prnsidents, pro­mieres, prime ministers and 
kings. lie was a Catholic Pope 
who toud111d the Wnstorn Wall 
and visited Ausd1witz. lie con­
eernnd himself with tho spiritual. 
and if he had a ausadn, it was 
against matnrialism and con­
sumerism. If he took a side in tho Cold War, it was against both the 
iniquity of capitalism and thn opprnssion of communism. 
He was a eontrovnrsial figurl' who many disagrnml with on mattnrs such as abortion, contra­ception, and thP dnath pnnalty, but even his most ardPnt critics must admit that the position hn took was always f(Jr lif(l, liJrgivn­ness and l'n1edom -whethPr opposing the death p1malty, thn war in Iraq or thP dnaths causnd by world poverty. 
Unlikn many othnr rnligious leadnrs of the past, and many religious leaders of the present, and most liknly many religious lnaders of the li.rturn-thn only holy war Wojtyla wagnd was against war aqd dnath il'inlf. And fi)f' that, wo should look on his passing with the sadness we havn when dncnnt peopln who work lilr a better world depart it. 
This mlumn origin a1/y appeared on April 4 in the Daily Texan, the daily publimliorz at the l!nioersity of1i'.ms-Austin. 
The views expressed in this col­wnn are those r~( the author and not necessarily those r~(The Obsertwr. 
U-WIRE 
Etiquette for equality 
Tlwy arn nverywhern. They've inliltrated our work­phu:ns, ehurdws, schools and soeial gathnrings. In dnaling with us they may be patronizing or thought­less, dueless or expnrifmced and polite. 
I am talking about the four out of live Americans who do not have a disability. Since education about the 20 pnrcnnt who do seems to be severely lacking, it 
snnms only fair to ol'fnr gnntle adviee Deborah Seller for mannnrs on how to deal with those who do tasks diiTernntly. Thorn is a goldon rule to dealing Universit!/ of with individuals with disability in Califomza­your lifo: SeP the person first. A dis­Davis ability of any kind is only one char­Daily Aggie adnristie of a person, and the odds are that you will have something in common to talk about. With that in mind, be preparnd to take cues on how to ad from each ease separately, as people react dif­l'ernntly to their own disabilities-some with humor, privacy, nmbarrassment, openness, a "strietly busi­rwss" attitude or any eombination. There is only one thing we have in common: If you have a good joko about our situation, we have heard it a million times before. Kindly shove it. II' there may be a silver rule, it is to toss the patron­izing concept that disability means brave sulTering. Bravery implies we had a choice, and suffering implies disability is miserable. It is indeed miserable to be 
faced with tasks impossible to complete, but thanks to equal access, education and employment laws, we should not lind anything to be miserable about day-to­day lifo. Consider: If the job gets done, is there still a disability? Focus on the task, not the method. 
It is perfectly acceptable to politely olTer assistance to someone with a disability. Most likely he or she will be grateful for your consideration. However, wait until help is accepted, as dodging in to the rescue uninvited can be dangerous as well as insulting. Allow individu­als the dignity to choose for themselves what tasks they can and can not do. 
With this established, let's get more specific. 

For the blind: Identify yourself and others. If you have met before, remind him of the nature of the meeting, as he will not have visual clues to jog his memory. Describe any visual scenarios used in conver­sation, keep pathways dear, and describe surround­ings, especially obstades, if moving. 
For the hearing or speech impaired: Do not shout. It's extremely rude and rarely helps. If she uses an interpreter, speak to the person, not the interpreter. You may touch a deaf individual lightly to get her attention. If you do not understand someone's speech, admit the problem so it can be addressed. 
For those in wheelchairs: Sit at the same level for extended conversations. Do not phrase a question about her situation as "What is wrong with you?" because there is nothing wrong with using a wheel­chair. Look at the pnrson, not assistivn deviees. Make sure locations you will be at are accessible and path­ways clear. 
For invisible disabilities: Sometimes you may b11 approached with a request that seems strange to you, so be aware that not all disabilities are visible. Someone with a learning disability may want you to write down seemingly simple instructions. Someone weakened from cancer may wish to sit while waiting in line. They will be grateful if' you help without judging. 
Don't be afraid to ask questions. Those with disabili­ties realize that people arc curious, and probably have the monologue explanation rehearsed down to an art. It is far better to ask respeCtfully than to continue your interactions with misconceptions and discomfort of the unknown. 
And have patience. The kinks will get worked out, and the individual you are dealing with is a pro at handling them. Remember, the person with disability deals with dozens of unknowledgeabll~ people every day while living in a world that was not designed for his strengths. If it were possible, he could probably loan you barrels of patience. 
This column originally appeared on April 4 in the Daily Aggie, the daily publication at the University of California-Davis. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
DVD REVIEWS 
Eastwood classic western gets special treatment 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN Scene DVD Critic 
Once upon a time, Clint Eastwood did­n't cry in his movies. lie seldom spoke, and what he did say ("do you feel lucky . . . punk?") would be remembered forev­er. 
Not only, however, is his part in the Spaghetti Western "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" of worldwide acclaim, but everything pertaining to the l'ilm has gone down as a work of art. And Eastwood isn't the only hero to the film's inception. The film, originally released in 1966, was re-released in a special edition DVD last year and befits a movie of this caliber. 
Lee Van Cleef and Eli Wallach com­plete a trio of sensational characters, and director Sergio Leone gives the film great purpose in its cinematics and sto­rytelling. Ennio Morricone's score, an instant hit, also adds to the entertain­ment on the screen. 
The three main characters of the film -Blondie (Eastwood), Angel Eyes (Van CleeO and Tuco {Wallach) -jockey with each other in the search for a deceased soldier's hidden fortune, all in the midst of the Civil War in the Southwestern ter­ritories. The War's repercussions affect the characters, as they find themselves in different places -a Union Prison Camp, a monastery aiding wounded sol­diP-rs and a calamitous battle for a nar­row bridge over a river . 

The cinematography, costuming and larger-than-life performances are cru­cial to creating not only an entertaining film but a lilm with underlying morality, as well. Blondie, Angel Eyes and Tuco kill professionally and excessively, as do the soldiers caught in the war. The dif­ference is that while the three charac­ters kill to protect themselves and pro­ceed towards a greater goal, the blood­shed in the war seems almost meaning­less. 
At one moment, as Union soldiers pre­pare to leave a town, Leone holds the camera still for a unflinching view of a thieving soldier's plight under a shoot­ing squadron, with Angel Eyes and some of his hired cronies looking on. The scene has nothing to do with the plot but is immensely meaningful to the director's drive to portray violence as an alternative in which one finds little pur­
pose. 
Greed is also a key theme in "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly." The famous "Ecstasy of Gold" sequence at the site of the money is filmed chaotically with a climac­tic musical scoring from Morricone, as the bandit is almost driven mad in his search to find the treasure's exact location. 


The special edition DVD is heavier on historical criticism with extra bonuses such as lost footage or film documenta­tion. Film historian Hichard Schickel provides commentary for the film, which is insightful but a tad boring. He's more concise in the two documentaries regarding Leone's film technique, "Leone's West" and "The Leone Style." 
Another good documentary is "The Man Who Lost the Civil War," an account of a failed Civil War campaign in the West by Confederate Brigadier General Henry Hopkins Sibley. 
The core feature in the deleted scenes is are-piecing of a scene in which Tuco, already searching for Blondie as pay­back for an earlier double-crossing, almost finds him in a remote town where the hero relaxes with a lover. The scene was never entirely shot, but pho­tographic stills and narrative attempt to describe what Leone was aiming for in the scene. 
The legend of "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly" has grown to the point where it seems to hit cable television airwaves every other weekend. Great characters, brutally precise directing and a multi­layered story make Leone's work the standard for the Western film era and an important event in the history of filmmaking in this re-mastered edition. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 
Animated 'Star Wars' fare fills in key details 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene DVD Critic 
Not many creatures, animal or other­wise, have yellow eyes. At least, yellow eyes are not the norm for humans and are almost always associated with some­thing sinister and not human. So it's oddly appropriate that on May 19, the release of the third "Star Wars" prequel, Anakin Skywalker will linally have yellow eyes as he makes his transition to an evil Sith Lord. 
However, Episode 3 takes place towards the end of the Clone Wars, one of the greatest wars in "Star Wars" histo­ry. It takes place between the second and third prequels, which would leave a few fans in the dark. 
This is where the animated series "The Clone Wars" steps in. Animated by "Samurai Jack" creator Genndy Tartakovsky, "The Clone Wars" attempts to give fans filler material on one the Hepublic's greatest wars. And while on many levels it succeeds, the first volume leaves a bit to be desired. 
Each of the original c:artoons was only around 3 minutes long, which unfortu­nately keeps any real plot depth from developing. The basic story isn't too deep, but should be of interest for fans. The Jedi and Hepublic attack the Separatists on many different home fronts. Each cartoon centers around a particular Jedi doing his part against the Droids. 
This gives Star Wars fans the opportu­nity to see their favorite lesser charac­ters in action. Many of the lesser Jedi get scenes, or even entire cartoons dedicated to them. It was also a nice change of pace to see Storm Trooper predecessors that could hit the broad side of a barn, unlike in the live-action "Star Wars" walks. 
The cartoon also shows what mischief the other side of the conflict gets into. Count Dooku, not content to sit around and wait for his probable demise in Episode 3, stages a giant melee in hopes of recruiting the greatest fighter. 
In one of the volume's many cool scenes, the viewer is introduced to another lightsaber swinger -Sith wannabe Asajj Ventress. Ventress steps up and impresses Dooku enough that he sends her after Anakin. Their fight marks one of the highlights of the first volume, 
of which there are a few. 
But this is where the problem lies -the first volume, due to the length of each of the original cartoons, feels like a bunch of highlights clipped together without the actual story to link them. Slow parts are required to help create the story, and to give the viewer a chance to soak in what they just saw. And in such a cru­cial period of Star Wars history, namely that of Anakin's descent to evil, the lack of story development is a shame. 


Beyond Anakin's usual disobedience, there is not much in the way of him beginning to embrace the Dark Side. Two scenes in particular do stand out howev­er, one with Emperor Palpatine encour­aging Anakin to defy Jedi orders and then the other in his climactic battle against Asajj Ventress. However, due to the length of each episode, neither one is fleshed out too deeply. 
The chapters correspond with the beginning and ends of each of the car­toons, so fans can skip to each one indi­vidually. Being a cartoon, the colors look vibrant and nice. No complaints in the sound department either. 
But the special features are rather lacking. There are two commentaries, but one of them is next to worthless for the average Star Wars fan. The only spe­cial feature worth a real mention is the "Bringing the Saga: From Clone Wars to Hevenge of the Sith" feature. It has inter­views with Tartakovsky and George Lucas himself, plus some random people associated with Star Wars. It too doesn't go too deep however, but is still a nice bonus on the DVD. There are also some screen shots and scenes from the upcom­ing "Star Wars" film, but nothing that hasn't been seen in the trailers already: 
Fans should check this out, but only at a discounted price. The full price of a DVD may be too much to pay for this, even if it does have the first appParance of upcoming villain General Grievous. However, it is worth a watch because a new character is introduced and he just happens to have villainous yellow eyes. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Comic book noir leaps to life in 'Sin City' 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA and 
1\RIAN DOXTADER 
Sn•nt• Ediwr and Sc~lll' Mnvit· (:ririe 
Hama: Whc•n asknd about why thn crit­irally-a('(:lainwd cult. romic "Sin City" took so long to bc> translatc>d to film, r.rc>­ator and ro-din~r.tor Frank Millc~r simply said he> was allnrgk to llollywood at t hn ti nw. 
"Sin City's my baby. and I wouldn't want my lilt lc> girl to go down tlw rivnr," h.-said. 
All it took f'or Millnr to rhangn his mind was dirPr.toJ' l!olu~rt Hodrigunz's invita­1ion to r.omP down to Tnxas and shoot a t.-st with fric>nds and nwmlwrs of' his ('fPW. Wlum Millnr discovnrml the "tnst" was Hodrigunz's finishnd takn 011 thn first scmu• in a proposnd film, complntn with .Josh llartrwtt and Marley Slwlton ­wnll. Llw rnst is history. 
At long last. the stylized pulp-erimn noir has landnd, morn than a dneadn al'tnr thn sourcn matc~rial first mesnwr­iwd rnadnrs. "Sin City" dons not disap­point Pithnr long-limn fans of' thn comies or somnorw complntely oblivious to Millnr's works. Bodrigunz has done a phnnomnnal job brPathing life into Mill1~r's starkly bnautiful creations and tlw rnsult is tlw most groundml. faithful romic hook adaptation ynt. 
"Sin City" L(~lls thrnn difl'nrnnt tales dur­ing t.hn coursn of' its two-hour running limn, all cnnlnrnd in Basin City. This vio­lnnt, erinw-invnstnd hnll-hole is the stag­ing ground. wlwre t.lw police dnpartnwnt is as corrupt as the gangsters and crimi­nals that ruin the streets. Thn throe sto­rins intnrwcmvn at points but each eentnr on a difTernnt main lnad motivatnd to action by bnautiful womnn. 
Chic>f' among tlwsn protagonists is Marv (Mickny Hourk(l), a tough, almost impos­sihln-to-kill strnet thug with a sort spot f'or wonwn. When lw discovers that (;oldil~ (.lamin King), a bnautiful woman who lw slnnps with f'or only onn night. has luwn murdnrml whiln lying next to him, lw roams Basin City in a vnngef'ul rampagc> looking for justkn. Also kny to the plot is thn plight of Dwight (Clive Ownn), who tries to dnf'nnd his secret lovc>r Slwllie (Brittany Murphy) and his f'ornwr llanw (;ail (Hosario Dawson) from .larkin Boy (Bnnido dnl Toro), a crooked rop prorw to violnnce. Hounding out the trio of' tales is llartigan (Bruen Willis), pnrhaps thn om~ good eop in Basin City. Al'lc>r bPing irH:are(~ratP£1 for a erimn that lw didn't commit. lw gets out and vows to prolnd Nancy Callahan (Jnsska Alba) f'rom tlw advanens of a serial rapist known as tlw Ynllow Bastard (Nick StahlI. 
Thesn thron stories form thn baekbonn f'or a swooping desennt into tho world of' Millnr's en~ation and the end result takns your breath away. Thn visuals employnd hy Hodriguez arn unique in that the film is primarily in black-and-white, with splashes of vibrant color for dramatic effect. The resulting visuals are simply stunning and a joy to bnhold. 

Filmed primarily on a blue-screen with the backgrounds and sets added digitally after filming, the swooping camnra movnmnnts and fists-to-the-wall aetion are f'aithfully captured and take your breath away. "Sin City" feels very much like a living, breathing comic-book popu­lated by human eharacters that will do whatnver it takes to get their way. 
The east list is impressivn from top to bottom. Diverse and talented, the princi­pal actors are headlined by a veritable who's who of A-list stars, rising young actors and respected thespians known f'or eharactc~r roles. The blend of this tal­ent stnadily balances a film that rips the audinnce's attention from one storyline and whisks viewers off to a new locale and a dill'enmt protagonist's interior dia­logue. 
There are too many excellent perform­ancns to pin 
will undoubtedly cause cringes and gen­Hral queasiness, the heart of the film doesn't beat with the bloodshed. lnst(md, tho focus remains on the rosolve of Marv, Dwight and Hartigan as they refuse to back down from their fairly honorable goals. And for the two hours the charac­ters dominate the storyline, viewnrs <:an 't help but root for those anti-heroes despite the carnage they wreck. 
Powered by the visions of the two prin­cipal dirnetors and spearheaded by Hodriguez, "Sin City" is a film that view­nrs won't easily forget. The trio have hnlped emate a masterpiece of film noir that brims with style and rises about the sins of the characters to paint a striking portrait of Miller's "baby." 
Brian: "Sin City" is a hyper-stylized film noir taken to a wild nxtreme, a ver­tiginously battering expnriencn that introduees a world where the good guys kill for love, the bad guys kill for novelty and the femmes are all fatales. It is also 
one of the most 

down the wnight energetic and inher­
Sin City 

of thn film's dra­ently watchable matic success to 
films in years, both any onn particu­a brave experiment lar aetor. But and grand enter~ Hourkn shinns in tainment. 
Directors: Robert Rodriguez and Frank

a eareer-resur­The film was 
Miller

rneting perform­directed by Hobert 
Writer: Frank Miller 

anee that reso­Hodriguez, who 
Starring: Bruce Willis, Mickey Rourke, 

unds with the seems to be f'iring
Clive Owen, Jessica Alba, Rosario 

emotion that on all cylinders. llis 
Dawson and Benecio del Toro 

hides behind the brutish looks of his eharader. Hourke infuses Marv with a snnsibility that makes the audience root for a misanthrope who has no qualms with dragging a criminal on the road, side-by-side with a speeding ear. And that's not even the worst shred of violence in the film. 
Violnnee motivates almost all of the a(:tion in the film, with numerous severed limbs, one partial decapitation and countless bullets lirnd. While the violnnen 
goal was to repro­

duee the "Sin City" eomies f'rame-for-franw, and he has eomn startlingly close to that goal. llo has reproduced the comics so lovingly and accurately and has directed with such nair and enthusiasm that we can forgive him "Once Upon a Time in Mexico" and almost forgive him "Spy Kids 3-D." Almost. 
Frank Miller, who wrote and illustrated all of the graphic novels, is credited as a eo-director and Qunntin Tarantino shows up for a scerw (a brilliant, appropriatc~ly pulpy halludnogc~nie r.ar ridn that. is long on both dialogun and style~). ThP lilm is npisodic, basnd Oil thrC'n or MiiiPr's books: The' liard (;oodbyP, Tlw Big Fat Kill. and That Ynllow Bastard. 
Tlw lirst story is about a gold-lwartC'd thug namnd Marv. who kills his way to t.lw top in pursuit of t.hn JWrson who killnd (;oldin, tlw OIJP woman who cwPr showC'd him kindnnss. Tlw sC'ro11d is about Dwight. who bneonws C'lll.a11glnd ill a gang war involvi11g .Jac:kin lloy, a crookPd cop, and Gail, an old girll'riPIJd who happnns to bn both a prostit.utn and the lnader or 011(1 of' Llw gallgs. 
Thn third story J'nvolvns around llartigan, tlw mw good cop in all of' Sin City, who lrins to protnct Naney f'rom t.lw Yellow Bastard. a pndophilc~ whom llarligan permannntly disligun~d during a prnvious nnc:ountnr. 
A picturn liko "Sin City" is all styh Thn gorgeous blaek-and-white dnnmatogra­phy is splashnd with colors and nll'ncts in all thn right placns. Thn acting and dia­logue is a loving pastiche or l'ilm noir clichc~s; this is initially jarring, but beeomes extremely enjoyable (and of'tcm quitn f'unny) oncn thn audinncn is acdi­mated. 
This is a lilm in which one charactnr doesn't. just behnad anothnr, shn "makes a poz dispnnser out of him" and llartigan didn't just f'eellwlpless, he "f'elt as skillnd as a cnrnbral palsy victim doing brain surgery with a pipn wrench." Thn 111m croatns its own insular world f'ar more' convincingly than most, a world in which characters takn bullnt aftnr' bullnt and keep moving, and nobody semns to have a day job. 
"Sin City" is quite viohmt, but in such an ovnr-the-top, eartoonish kind of way that the violencn .is galvanizing rathnr than rnpulsiv(~. Still. this film is deddndly not for children or thn faint of !wart: dis­mmnberment, cannibalism. mutilation and nlectrocution are all on display. That isn't to say that Sin City has no moral eompass whatsoever. Love stories form the eore of' all three plots and whil1~ thn difl'ernntiation bntwn(HJ "good" and "bad" is ol'tnn thin, thn dnlirwation is still pnr­cnptibln. 
Credit has to be givnn to Holwrt Hodrigunz for his tnnadty and stnadf'ast­nnss. Trying to rnproducn a comic nxactly on thn screen is risky and unusual for a mainstream film, as was the ernditing of' Millor as eo-diredor (Bodrigunz quit tlw Director's Guild ovnr that <Incision). Thankfully, it all paid ofT, resulting in mw of thn most mwrgntkally rPI'rnshing lilms in rncnnt mnmory. As nxdting, innova­tive, stylish and postmodnrn as tlwy come, Sin City is highly reeomnwnded and is a benchmark film. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu and Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of movleweb.com Marv (Mickey Rourke), right, gets information from his parole officer, Lucille (Carla Gugino), to help aid his quest for vengeance In the first act of "Sin City." 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
MLB 
Reds, Padres each rally to win on Opening Day 
Tigers' Young is first to hit 3 HRs in 
opener since 1987 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Trailing by two 
runs in the ninth inning, the 
youthful Colorado Rockies weren't 
supposPd to have the experience 
to come through. 
They did. 
Rookie Clint Barmes hit a two­
run homer to cap Colorado's four­
run ninth inning off Trevor 
Hoffman, helping the Hockies 
open the season over the San 
Diego Padres with a 12-10 win. 
Ryan Speier got two outs in the 
ninth to win in his first career 
appearance. Jeff Baker started 
the ninth-inning rally and became 
the fifth Rockies player to homer 
in his major league debut. Cory 
Sullivan made his first career at­
bat one to relish, lining a double 
into the corner in left to get 
Colorado within 10-9. 
Seattle 5, Minnesota 1 
Two at-bats with his new club, 
two home runs for Richie Sexson. 
If you'd have made that forecast 
to Seattle's slugger a week ago, he 
wouldn't have thought it was pos­
sible. 
Sexson homered twice and 

Carlos Zambrano of the Chicago Cubs pitches in the third inning against the Arizona Diamondbacks Monday. 
drove in five runs in his Seattle debut, and 42-year-old Jamie Moyer pitched 5 2-3 strong innings Monday to lead the Mariners over the Minnesota Twins. 
Chicago Cubs 16, Arizona 6 
Aramis Ramirez celebrated a new contract and combined' with his teammates to give the Chicago Cubs a record-setting offense on opening day. 
Ramirez went 3-for-4 with a two-run homer and four RBis, and the Cubs amassed 23 hit<>. 
Chicago set a team record for runs in an opener, topping by one its total in 1899 and 2003. 
Derrek Lee had four hits and five RBis, including a three-run homer and two doubles. Todd Walker, Jeromy Burnitz and Corey Patterson also had three hits apiece for the Cubs. 
Toronto 5, Tampa Bay 2 
Roy Halladay tried to keep it simple, just like he has all spring. 
Reverting to his Cy Young form of two years ago, the Toronto right-hander pitched seven-plus strong innings, and the Blue Jays got home runs from Vernon Wells, Orlando Hudson and Eric Hinske to beat the Tampa Bay Devil Hays. 
Hudson hit a two-run homer off loser Dewon Brazelton in the fourth inning. Six pitches later, Wells followed with a solo sh0t off one of the catwalks supporting the roof at Tropicana Field. 
The Devil Rays, who've strug­gled offensively all spring, finished with 10 hits -nine of them sin­gles. They were 1-for-9 with run­ners in scoring position. 
Philadelphia 8, Washington 4 
Washington's new team played like Montreal's old one. 
Kenny Lofton hit a three-run homer and Jon Lieber pitched 5 2-3 effective innings, leading the Philadelphia Phillies to an 8-4 vic­tory Monday in the first game played by the Washington Nationals. 
Terrmel Sledge homered and drove in three runs for the Nationals. who moved during the offseason after 36 mostly losing years as the Montreal Expos. Washington, which hadn't had a major league team since the expansion Senators left for Texas following the 1971 season, plays its home opener April 14 against Arizona. 
Chicago White Sox 1, Cleveland 0 
Mark Buehrle was in a hurry on opening day. 
Working quickly, throwing strikes and letting his fielders get involved, Chicago's lefty was in rare form. 
Buehrle retired the first 12 bat­ters and allowed just two hits in eight innings. The first White Sox season opener at home in 15 years took just one hour and 51 minutes to play. 
Cleveland starter Jake Westbrook, wasn't bad either, giv­ing up just four hits in eight innings and getting the first com­plete game of the season. 
Playing its first season opener at home since the fmal year of old Comiskey Park in 1990, Chicago fmally broke the scoreless duel in the seventh, thanks to an error by Indians shortstop Jhonny Peralta. 
Paul Konerko doubled down the left-field line, moved to third on Jermaine Dye's fly to right and scored as Peralta misplayed Aaron Rowand's one-out grounder. Peralta was the first player other than Omar Vizquel to start for the Indians at shortstop since 1993. 
Baltimore 4, Oakland 0 
Sammy Sosa was doing a little dance in front of his locker as the crowd around him began to grow. He stepped back from the TV cameras and microphones to turn down the volume of the pulsating salsa music on his personal DVD player. 
"I don't want to get released," he said, flashing his trademark smile. 
There's no danger of that hap­pening anytime soon in Baltimore, where Sosa received a hero's wel-


Getty Images 

Toronto's Eric Hinske bats against Tampa Bay in the Blue Jays 5-2 win in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
come before getting two hits more surprising move all season Monday in the Orioles' 4-0 victory than writing Jeff Cirillo's name over the Oakland Athletics. on his opening-day lineup card. 
Luis Matos homered and The Milwaukee manager might Rodrigo Lopez pitched six innings not make a better one, either. to help Baltimore earn its fifth Cirillo homered and doubled consecutive opening-day win. in his return to the Brewers, 
and Ben Sheets outpitched Cincinnati 7, N.Y. Mets 6 Oliver Perez in a matchup of 
Pedro Martinoz blew 'em away. two of the NL's best young Carlos Beltran knocked 'em in. starters. Everything was going exactly Sheets was given little support according to plan for the new­during a 2004 season that was look Mets -until Adam Dunn much better than his 12-14 exposed the one area they over­record indicated -the Brewers looked. scored one run or fewer in nine 
Dunn's second homer of the of his losses. l3ut he got plenty of game tied it in the ninth, and Joe help in his fourth consecutive Randa followed with a solo shot opening day start from off Braden Looper that sent the Milwaukee's newest regular, Cincinnati Reds to victory Monday shortstop J .J. Hardy, and the in front of the biggest crowd in oldest, Cirillo. Great American Ball Park's histo­ry. Detroit 11, Kansas City 2 
For the first time in their 129 Dmitri Young got to the top season openers. the Heds fmished step of the dugout, pivoted and ·one off with a homer. tipped his helmet to a roaring 
Martinez struck out 12 and crowd after becoming just the allowed only one hard-hit ball -third player to hit three homers Dunn's three-run homer -dur­on opening day. ing his six innings. Beltran had Young went 4-for-4 and three hits, including one of the matched a career high with five Mets' three homers, as they went RB!s, and Jeremy Bonderman ahead 6-3. won as the youngest opening­
day starter since 1986 to lead Milwaukee 9, Pittsburgh 2 the Detroit Tigers over the Ned Yost might not make a Kansas City Hoyals. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
2000 Tracker. 26,000 miles. $5200. 634-4422. 
WANTED 
For Sale: Luggage Carrier Sears Childcare for 10 and 13 year old largest; only used twice. $150. Call after school (3-6) and summer (1 0-272-5763 to see. 6). Nonsmoker, references and reli­able car essential. Call or email Violet at 243-3466 or vbloom FoR RENT @nd.edu 
Clean homes close to NO. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask FoR SALE about FREE student rent program. 
Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm, 2bath. Room for rent. Very nice apt.com-For details fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-plex 10 min. from 261-0900. campus.$350/mo.(517)974-6225. 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for 2005-06 school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, Laundromat next door (drycleaning also),basernent available for stor­age of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 

2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING www.andersonN Drentals.com Are you trying to tell me Jesus DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 Christ can't hit a curveball? 
S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 1-yr sublet 1 bdrm. 10 min. to NO. 
532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM $500/mo. Email: ngreenbe@nd.edu What league did you play in last year? 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK Furn houses on Navarre,Marion & California Penal FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER St. Pete Sts. avail 06-07. 233-9947. MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG-Every time you hit the ball in the air, ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876-I want you to drop down and give 3537. me 20 pushups. 
PERSONALS 

2,4 & 5 B-Rooms, close to campus, Yeah, we have unijorrns and everything call 234-9923, ask for Rod. Since today is opening day, quotes 
from Major League Lou, how would you like to manage 3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417 the Indians next year? Napoleon (off NO Ave.) 2 min. from Who are these guys? I dun no. I've got a guy on the other NO. $1100/mo. 2 roommates/1 tam-This guy's dead. line who wants to buy some white­ily. Call 299-9428. Cross his name off then walls, let me call you back. 
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS p;ige 15 
SWIMMING 
Phelps wins 2 more races, withdraws from backstroke 


Associated Press 
INI>IANAPOLIS -Two more rams, two more wins, <md Miehael Phnlps finally had nnough. 
Phnlps overtook Ameriean rnmrd holdnr Jason Lnzak. who f'adod at the finish, and won tlll) 1 00-meter freestylo in 49 seconds flat Monday night. It was tho lhstest he has ever swum that event. 
About a half:.hour later, he was back in the pool <md oasily won tlm 200 individual modlny in 1 minutn, 
57.44 seconds lor hi<> fifth and final victory in the U.S. world champi­onship trials at the Indiana University Natatorium. 
"I'm done for the week," said Phelps, who then withdrew from tho 200 backstroke hn was sdmd­ulnd to race on Tuesday. ''I'm start­ing to got back into training now and fbcusing on Montrna.l." 
The top two finishers in each event automatically qualifind fbr the world championships in Montrnal this summnr. The 19-year-old Phnlps also won the 100 butterfly and the 200 and 400 rn~estyles. With the possibility of ilirne rnlays, he could swim in as m<my as oight events in Montreal. the same num­ber he competed in last yoar at tlw Olympi<~'> in Atl1ens, when~ he won six gold medals and two bronzes. 

"We're going to be talking about iliat. to finaliz<~ the schndule," he said of his pbms li:Jr t11n July 24-:{1 meet in Montreal. "Wn wanl!~d to eome in horn to have a wide vruinty of options, to see what wo could do. Definitely, we have a lot of tl1ings to choose from. 
"I didn't know what kind of shapn I was going to be in coniing into tl1is. but definitely after tlw wm~k ofwork it was training itself, being able to come in here and swim against iliese guys and try to put up somn fast times," Phelps said. "It was pretty much like a pradiee swim it<>olf." 
Le:t.ak earlier won t11e 50 frnestyl1~ to eontinue his stroak or qualifying lbr every U.S. terun in major inter­national eompetition since t11n 2000 Olyrnpi<~<>. 
Ten years older than Phelps, Lezak s<~t the American reeord of 
48.17 seconds in the 100 frnestyln two ynars ago. I le was thn fhstest in Monday moming's preliminaries at 
49.55 and lml the final hnat at tlw 50-meter turn. when Phelps was seventh. 
But, just as lw did Sunday night in ovmiaking world rocord-holdor Ian Crocker in tlw 100 butl!~rfly. l'lwlps cmne on strong <md caught I A~:tak at the finbh, t.ow:hing thP wall first by .OIJ sncond. 
"It looknd likn I dind. I fitdnd big tirno," I A~zak said. "I took it out hard and didn't have tlu~ proper training to finish. I took time oil' (aftm· the Olympics) and n1wer got bark into the fi.Ill training cydn until about six wneks bnfbrn tlm mnet, so it W<L<>n't enough." 
IIn said it wa<>n't a matlor of nu:n strategy. 
"I always do my own thing," IA1:t.ak said. ''I'm awarn of what my compntition dons. I just wnnt out <md did my race 1u1d couldn't finish it at tlw nnd." 
In the 200 IM, in whkh Plwlps holds the world rneord of 1:55.94, lm finished almost a second ahead ol' Hyan Loehto and almost thrnn sneonds alwad of third-plac1~ Erk Sluu1tnau. 
MLB 
Nationals debut with energy, excitement and loss 
Associated Press 
I'IIIIAI>l~l.I'IIIA-If any of the Washington Nationals looked up whiln walking toward tho visitors' dugout for tlwir regular-SI)ason dnhut. they might have noticed tho framnd unililrms of NL tnams lining tho walls. 
Up whnrn a Nationals jersny should havn been. thorn was a gray uniform with "Montreal" in nnat, red script. It's bonn a long journny from Canada to tho U.S. eapital, and now that Washin)..,rton has a major lnagun team fi>r tho first time sincn l.lw Senators left in 1971, it might take a whiln for nvcryonc to got usnd to the idea. 
With "Washington" written in blun block lettnrs across thnir ehesl<>, the Nationals played their first oflidal post-MontrHal game Monday, opening the season and their new era with an 8-4 loss to the Philadelphia Phillies. 
"We'm making history hero. A<> an Expo, at Shea Stadium at the end of the year, we were the last players to wear that uniform. And now we're the first to wear this uniform," left fielder Terrmel Sledge said. 
"They haven't had baseball in 
D.C. in 35 years, so it's a whole new atmosphere." 
Slodge hit the first home run in Nationals history, a two-run shot 


HPU offers master degree programs in: 
• 
Business Administration • Secondary Education 

• 
Communication • Social Work 

• 
Diplomacy and Military Studies • Teaching English as a Second Language 

• 
Global Leadership 

• 
Human Resource Management 



Visit the HPU representative on campus: 
• Information Systems 
Thursday, April 7 at 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center
• 
Nursing 

• 
Organizational Change 



Inquire about our online and distance education programs. Attractive scholarship and assistantship opportunities are available. 
Graduate Admissions 1164 Bishop Street, Suite 911 • Honolulu, HI 96813 808-544-0279 • Toll-free: 1-866-GRAD-HPU • E-mail: graduate@hpu.edu 
oil' starter Jon Lieber in the sixth inning. 
Other Nationals' firsts indudnd Brad Wilkerson's single loading ofT the game -his uniform is headed to the llall of Fame _ and Sledge's HBI groundout that drove in Nick Johnson with their first run with one out in the sec­ond. 
That 1-0 lead prompted a group of fans in the upper deck to chant, "Let's go, Nats! Let's go, Nats!" 
"I don't know if wn hnard that on the road the throe previous years," Nationals manager Frank Robinson said. "It was good to hear that, but you don't get caught up in 
"It feels good just
it." Tavarns said. There were plenty to be back on the "Everybody's of Nationals jerseys picking us last
field." 
and hats dotting the and I kind of full house of 44,0HO; liko that, it's only about 130 Brad Wilkerson because we'll miles from RFK Nationals first show pnopln Stadium to Citizens wn're lwtter
baseman 
all your games in 01111 pl<u:n," Hobinson said. 
"Mentally, it's a diflimml fi~eling here, and that can rnally help a balldub. help players." 
General manager Jim Bowden came aboard in Novnmhnr and brought in .lose (iuill<m. Vinny Castilla, Cristian Guzman and Esteban Loaiza. But Bowden is limited by a $50 million budget set by major lnagun basnhall; the Nationals am ownnd by the other 29 teams and a nnw owner isn't expected to bn in place before midseason. 
"Today's the culmination ol' a lot of hard work by a lot of peo­
ple," team prns­
ident Tony 

Bank Park. 
"The past couple of days, l'vn bonn thinking about the sellout crowd -what is it, about 40,000 people? -watching us playing baseball," Sledge said. ''I'm geeked up. It's a drmun." 
The Expos lived a nomadic and unstable existnnce the past thren years. 
First, baseball wanted to fold them. Then came two seasons with 22 "home" games in Puerto Hieo. And then came the pro­tracted process of getting the District of Columbia Council to finalize the deal for the Expos' move to Washington. 
"It liJels good just to be back on the lield ... to get it out of the way. I'm glad it's over, and now we can relax and go out and play base­ball," Wilkerson said. "My tirst big league experience was in Montreal. I have a lot of friends in Montrnal. But. to be honest, it's good to move on." 
Last year's 67-95 record made it easier to embracn a new home. To a man, players spoke this spring about a fresh start. 
"The energy about this tnam ... I hope it carries through the sea­son. It's exciting knowing that everything is back to normal ­like every other balldub. playing than that." 
Five of nine starters wnro the same Monday as opening day in 20<>4. and Hobinson spent much of spring training fn1tting about his ofl'ense. lie sent Wilkersnn out in the h~adofl' spot., and put. .Johnson 
fifth. . Getting hil<> wa<> not a problnm in Came I for the Nationals: Every player in the starting ninn got at lnasl onn, induding pit<:hnr l.ivan llnrnandnz. But tlw 2004 
Expos' lonn All-Star gave up seven earrwd nms in his 4 2-3 innings and look tlw loss. 
''I'm going to be rnady fin· nnxl time," Hernandez said. ''I'm not the kind ol' guy to put my head down." 
So tho lirst win in Nationals his­tory will eome another day. Still, there was another "W" that the team and il<> fitns were plmL<>ed to see: that curly white letter stitched on their blue road ball­caps, reminiscent of the letter the old Senators worn. 
All those team firsl<> go into the books, and mmnorabilia will head to Cooperstown, but Hobinson has other concerns. 
"You just kind of forget about that until tim end," he said. "Then it's, 'Well, we lost our first one."' 


OUND THE NATION 
page 16 CcnvWILED .FROlv1 T"t-Hi OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
Men's ITA NCAA Tennis Top25 
team 
1 Baylor 
2 Illinois 
3 Virginia 
4 Mississippi 
5 Duke 
6 UCLA 
7 Pepperdine 
8 Georgia 
9 Florida 
1 0 Texas Tech 
11 Oklahoma State 
12 Southern California 
13 Washington 
14 Mississippi State 
15 Texas A&M 
16 Stanford 
17 Tennessee 
18 Kentucky 
19 Clemson 
20 Texas A&M-C. Christi 
21 Tulane 
22 lSU 
23 Harvard 
24· Louisville 
25 Middle Tennessee 

Women's ITA NCAA Tennis Top25 
team 
1 Stanford 2 Northwestern 3 Georgia 4 Southern California 5 Kentucky 6 Georgia Tech 7 Vanderbilt 8 Texas 9 Aorida 10 Duke 11 Miami (florida) 12 Baylor 13 UCLA 14 William &Mary 15 Clemson 16 North Carolina 17 California 18 Harvard 19 Washington 20 TCU 21 Tulane 22 Oregon 23 Mississippi State 24 South Carolina 25 Tennessee 

MIAA Softball Standings 
team  overall  conf.  
1  Tri-State  13-7  4-0  
2  Alma  14•6  2-0  
3  Olivet  11-5  2-0  
4  Adrian  4-9  0-0  
5  Calvin  10-4  0-0  
6  Albion  12·8  0·2  
7  Hope  10-6  0-2  
8  Kalamazoo  1-13....  6-2  
9  SAINT MARY'S.  5·6··+!'···  0·2'  



around the dial 
NBA 

Bulls at Heat, 6:30p.m., Comcast 
MLB Atlanta at Florida, 3:05p.m., TBS St. Louis at Houston, 6:05 p.m., Fox Sports Midwest Chicago Cubs at Arizona, 8:40 p.m., Com cast 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Of course, there was no way it was going to be easy. North Carolina did it, though, and now it's time to stop asking Roy Williams that doggone question. 
Sean May had 26 points and the Tar Heels dido't allow a basket over the final, excruciating 2 1/2 minutes Monday night to defeat Illinois 75-70, a win that finally gave Williams, the 17-year coaching vet­eran, the national champi­onship that was missing from his otherwise stellar resume. 
Freshman Marvin Willia­ms had a tip-in with 1:26 left, Raymond Felton made three free throws down the stretch and the Tar Heels (33-4) won their first title since 1993. 

Led by May's 10-for-11 shooting, Carolina took a 65-55 lead with 8:51 left and it looked like Williams would cruise to the cham­pionship. But Illinois (37 -2) never quits. 
Forward Jack Ingram hit a pair of outside jumpe"rs and Dee Brown scored six points as part of a 10-0 run that tied the game at 65 with 5 1/2 minutes left to set up a fantastic finish. 
When it was over ­after Felton had made his last two free throws, after May had cradled his 1Oth and final rebound ­Williams took off his glass­es and started looking for people to hug. · 
A few moments later, he was crying, much like he has at the end of every season -though no end­ing has been as sweet as this one. 
Luther Head led Illinois with 21 points. He had a wide-open look at a 3­pointer that would have tied the game with 17 sec­onds left, but it bounded off, and coach Bruce Weber's magical ride with the Illini wound up one win short of the real fairy­tale ending he hoped for. 
His opponent, Williams, left Kansas to take over the Tar Heels two years ago. Williams took a ton of heat for leaving Kansas after losing in the title game in 2003. 
He defended the move, saying coming back to his alma mater had always been his dream. Then, this week, he dealt with a more familiar question: Did he need to win a title to call his career a success? 
He told the story of Smith insisting he was no better a coach after he finally won one in 1982, but Williams conceded that answering that "same dog­gone question" did get a little annoying at times. 
He finally broke through in a terrific game. 
IN BRIEF 
Boeheim.: Calhoun elected 
to Basketoall Hall of Fame ST. LOUIS-Syracuse's Jim Boeheim and Connecticut's Jim Calhoun, who led their teams to NCAA titles in 2003 and 2004, were elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame. 
Coach and broadcaster Hubie Brown, Brazilian women's star Hortencia Marcari and Sue Gunter, who coached LSU to 708 wins, also were voted into the hall in balloting announced Monday. 
Boeheim and Calhoun, longtime Big East rivals, each recorded his 700th career win this season and became the first coaches with 700 wins to face each other when their teams met March 5. They have three national titles among them -two for Calhoun, whose Huskies also won the title in 1999. 
Brown was elected under the cate­gory of contributor for his impact on the game as a coach, clinician, broadcaster and ambassador. 
He left the Memphis Grizzlies this season when he retired and was voted NBA Coach of the Year in 2004 to go with the same award he won in 1978 with Atlanta. 38 minor leaguers violate steroids policy 

NEW YORK -Seattle's Damian Moss and the Los Angeles Angels' Francisco Cordova were among 38 players suspended Monday for violat­ing baseball's minor league steroids policy. 
Oakland's David Castillo was sus­pended for 60 games, the penalty for a third violation. All the others were suspended for 15 games, the ban given to first offenders. 
Eight of the 38 positives came from the Seattle organization, seven from the Chicago Cubs, five each from the Los Angeles Angels, Oakland and Texas, and four from San Diego. There were two from Colorado, and one each from St. Louis and the Chicago White Sox. 
The commissioner's oflice said one suspension was the result of offsea­
son testing and the rest stemmed from 925 tests conducted during ~ring training. Runner-ups qualify for U.S. swim team 
INDIANAPOLIS -Ian Crocker qualified for the U.S. world champi­onships team on Monday without swimming a stroke. 
USA Swimming, the sport's govern­ing body in the United States, announced all second-place finishers at the trials have been added to the 
U.S. team that will compete in Montreal in July. 
Crocker, the world record holder in the 100-meter butterfly, finished just behind Michael Phelps in that event Sunday night. At the time, only the winner of each event was guaran­teed a spot on the U.S. team. 
Monday's ruling gave Crocker another chance to go head-to-head against Phelps, who already had qualified for the U.S. team by win­ning the 100 butterfly and the 200 and 400 freestyles. 

Tuesday, April 5, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
12. An lrLqh lord (Mac·Sweeney) dines in the opt•n air. ca. 1575. \\'oockut, probably hy Johu lk• rkke. John lJcrric:ke, The Image aj lrf'lwule (I !)81). 
••LITERATURE [IN ENGLISH AND IRISH]•• 
•20th Century Irish and Native American Literature, IRST 20229:01, TR 9:30-10:45, Jessica Dougherty-McMichael the outset of colonization in both Ireland and North America's literature 
employed in similar fashion to romanticize, demonize and, more often than not, silence Irish and Native American cultures. Today, with the surge in post-colonial literatures, Irish and Native American literatures have found new voices that look to the past in order to explore the present. 
•Belfast, Dublin, London and Paris from Baudelaire to Bono, IRST 
20230:01, TR 12:30-1:45, Joan Arbery As one of the most dominant themes of modernity, the city figures as a poster child of trendsetters, go-getters, floozies and philanderers. This course focuses on four cities intimately connected through literature, art, music and film . 
•Anglo-Irish Literature: Cultured Misrule, Dissolute Lords and Rebel Countesses, IRST 20518:01, MWF 1:55-2:45, John Witek 
· course will examine the role of the Anglo-Irish in the politics in the politics and literary life of Ireland from the Act of Union ( 1800) to the last decades of the 20th Century. 
•Culture and Politics in Northern Ireland, IRST 30222:01, TR 2:00-3: 15, Mary Smyth 
course explores the politics of culture, and the cultures of politics, in the North of Ireland during the twentieth century. 
•The Hidden Ireland: Themes and Issues in Eighteenth-Century Irish Poetry, IRST 30107:01, TR 2:00-3:15, Breandan 0 Buachalla 
Daniel Corkery's study of the literature and society of Irish-speaking Munster in eighteenth-century (The Hidden Ireland, first published in 1924) is an lu\'vlc,-l><c:u classic of Irish literary history. This course will examine aspects 
the corpus of eighteenth-century poetry in the Irish language in the light of ·"r"""'"',."' analysis and of subsequent reassessments of that analysis (Louis 

, 
Keough Institute for Irish Studies, University of Notre Dame, Fall 2005. Next Semester, the Keough Institute is offering courses in Anthropology, Folklore, Irish-language, Literature [in English and Irish]. History and Politics. 
••ANTHROPOLOGY•• 
•Irish and American Dance, IRST 21601:01, MW 4:30-5:45, James M""·'-'"·"o­
This course will teach a range of fundamental steps in addition to at least two finished tap dance pieces set to CD music. Several hard show Irish tap dances will be taught and depending on the ability of the students, several other completed dances are possible. 
•Archaeology ofIreland, IRST 40503:01, MW 3:00-4:15, Meredith Chesson This course explores the culture and heritage of Ireland through the lens of the island's rich archaeological record. Combining lectures, student presentations, discussion exercises and panel projects, students in this class will learn about the social, political, and economic developments in Irish societies from the Neolithic to the Medieval periods. 
••FOLKLORE.. 
•Folklore in Irish Literature, ENGL 20528:01, TR 3:30-4:45, Julie Henigan This course will examine the traditional myths, tales, songs, customs, rituals, and beliefs that have long been used by Irish historical and creative writers as material for their literary works. 
..IRISH LANGUAGE•• 
•Beginning 
Irish!, IRST 10101:01, TR 9:30-10:45, Brian 0 Conchubhair An enjoyable introduction to Modern Irish. 

•Beginning 
Irish I, IRST 10101:02, MWF 10:40-11:30, Tara MacLeod An enjoyable introduction to Modern Irish. 

•Beginning 
Irish I, IRST 10101:03, MWF 1:55-2:45, Tara MacLeod An enjoyable introduction to Modern Irish. 


•Beginninglrishll, IRST 10102:01, TR 12:30-1:45, Brian 0 Conchubhair A continuation of IRST 10 10 1 and further develops the students' linguistic ability and knowledge of Irish 
•Beginning 
Irish II, IRST 10102:02, MWF 4:05-4:55, Tara MacLeod A continuation of IRST 10101 and further develops the students' linguistic ability and knowledge of Irish. 

•Intermediate 
Irish, IRST 20103:01, TR 9:30-10:45, Sarah McKibben This class follows on IRLL 10101 and 10102, with particular attention to more advanced grammatical structures, speaking and reading. 


•Introduction to Old Irish, IRST 20105:01, TR 12:30-1:45, Peter McQuillan The aim of this course is to enable students with no previous knowledge of Irish, medieval or modern, to take the first steps towards acquiring a reading knowledge of Old Irish [the language of 7th-8th Century Ireland]. 
..HISTORY.. 
•Irish History I, IRST 30404:01, MWF 9:35-10:25, James Smyth This course explores the main themes in Irish history from Elizabethan Conquest (1603) to the Act of Union (1800). 
•The Fighting Irish Since 1534, IRST 30407:01, TR 3:30-4:45, Eamonn 0 Ciardha This course will focus on the cult of the 'Fighting Irish' [the Irish at war] in history, 
literature, art, iconography, film and media between the reformation [1534] and the Good Friday Agreement [ 1995]. 
..POLITICS.. 
•Conflict and Consensus in 20th Century Ireland, IRST 40540:01, 
TR 2:00-3:15, William Kissane This course examines the government and politics of the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland through the lenses of democratization, state-development, nationalism and unionism. 
and Breandan 6 Buachalla, for example). Selections from the corpus of will be taken from 6 Tuama and Kinsella An Duanaire: poems of the IUH>IJU<:><:>cSSed (1981). 
•Poetry and Politics in Early Modem Ireland, IRST 40304:01, W 6:00­9:00, Breandan 0 Buachalla The political poetry of the period 1541-1688 will be discussed and analyzed 
"'-!'.<ll11'>l the tumultuous political, military, socio-economic, and cultural trauma 16th and 17th century Ireland. 
••GRADUATE COURSES .. 
•Theory and Theatre, IRST 90520:01, MW 3:00-4:15, Susan Harris This course investigates the history of Western theater and its relationship to the evolution of literary theory. Although the course will focus primarily on the evolution of the English-language theater, it will also locate that tradition in a European context, including figures like t>-rtaucl, Brecht, Grotowski and Pirandello, etc. 
•20th Century Irish Literature in Translation, IRLL 13186:01, TR 2:00­3:15, Sarah McKibben 
course examines Irish-language (Gaelic) literature from the Irish Revival at the turn of the twentieth-century to writing from the very end of the twentieth century and beyond. 
•Introduction to Early Irish Literature, IRLL 23101 :01, TR 9:30-10:45, 
Peter McQuillan An introduction for students to the richness and variety of literature produced in the Irish language during the medieval period (700 and 1200 A.D 
•Poetry and Politics in Early Modem Ireland, IRLL 60303:01, W 6:00­8:30, Breandan 0 Buachalla 
political poetry of the period 1541-1688 will be discussed and analyzed against the tumultuous political, military, socio-economic, and cultural trauma of 16th and 17th century Ireland. 
•Colonial Fictions, 1880-1930, ENGL 90525, TR 6:00-9:00, Meets from 
8/23-10/14/2005, Seamus Deane Class participants will read several Irish and English novels of canonical stature from this period in the light of the questions they raise about the nature and 
experience of colonialism and of its linkages to mqdernity. 
'lair· /.'1. Tht> EugJi,h rf'tmn after retaliation ou the Irish cattle raiders. \Vomlcut. probably by John I rickc. John Derricke, The lrdarul<' Ul8l). 
r 
I I page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
I 
MLB 
Cubs, Ramirez agree on $42 million, 4-year deal 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Third baseman Aramis Ramirez and the Chicago Cubs agreed Monday to a a $42 million, four-year con­tract that includes a mutual option for 2009. 
Ramirez batted .318 with 36 homers and 103 RBis last sea­son and would have been eligi­ble to become a free agent at the end of the 2005 season. 
"It's a good feeling knowing that I'm going to be here for four more years," Ramirez said, "and get this over with and just go and play baseball." 
He can terminate his new deal after 2006 and become a free agent. 
"That's just an option, but I don't think I'm going to exer­cise that," Ramirez said. "I want to be a Cub for the rest of my life." 
Hamirez gets a $1 million signing bonus plus an $8 mil­lion salary for this season, superseding the $8.95 million, one-year contr.act he had agreed to earlier this year. He gets $10.5 million in 2006, $11 million in 2007 and $11.5 mil­lion in 2008. 
The contract's fifth year, with an $11 million salary, would become guaranteed if Ramirez plays 270 games in 2007-08 or can be exercised by mutual agreement between the player and the club. 
Ramirez had wanted a deal done before the opener. Otherwise, he said, he would not negotiate until the season was over. 
"I talked to him about it [Sunday]," manager Dusty Baker said before Chicago's opener against Arizona. "He was in a bit of a turmoil and he expressed how much he wanted to stay and how much he liked playing for the Cubs and Uked playing in Chicago. You like to hear that -that a guy's happy where he is and he wants to stay there. In our minds and in his mind, he's going to get bet­ter and better." 
Ramirez, 26, was just 16 when he signed with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1994 and reached the majors in 1998. The Pirates traded him to the Cubs in July 2003. 
"He didn't come here with a bad reputation, but it wasn't a great reputation," Baker said. "He just wanted to win. He's grown as a player." 
Hamirez said the change of teams helped his attitude. 
"Just being on a contender, and you mature as a player," he said. "I made a lot of mistakes. I was young. I came into the league when I was 19 years old. You mature as a person and as a player. I think I've done that." 

PGA TouR 
Mickelson wins BellSouth Classic on 4th playoff hole 
Masters champion ready to defend his title at Augusta 
Associated Press 
DULUTH, Ga. Phil Mickelson made a 20-foot birdie putt on the fourth playoff hole Monday to win the BellSouth Classic over Rich Beem and give the defending Masters champion momentum heading to Augusta. 
Mickelson, Jose Maria Olazabal, Beem, Jobe Brandt and Arjun Atwal tied at S­under 208 after the final round in the rain-shortened 54-hole tournament to set up the five­man playoff. 
Brandt and Arjun were elimi­nated on the first playoff hole and Olazabal was out after the third playoff hole. 
"There were probably six to 10 people who could have won this tournament. I don't know how I dodged the bullet," said Mickelson. ''I'm looking for­ward to the Masters." 
Mickelson won it on the par 17, 455-yard 17th hole when he hit his drive in the fairway and put his second shot 20 feet from the hole before sinking the putt. 
Beem, who hasn't won since the PGA championship in 2002, hit into a fairway bunker on the final playoff hole. His second shot was about 20 yards short of the green where he pitched to about 2 feet, setting up a par putt which wasn't needed. 
Olazabal, the two-time Masters champion, had a chance to win on the par 5, 576-yard 18th in regulation to avoid a playoff, but missed a 5­foot birdie putt and settled for par and 69. 
He also had a second chance to win on the first playoff hole, missing another 5-foot birdie putt on No. 18. He was elimi­nated on the third playoff hole when he hit two balls in the water on 18. 
"I had a chance to win it (in regulation) and didn't. Had a second chance and missed it," said Olazabal, who also heads to the Masters with his game in pretty good shape. 
Mickelson (69), "My swing started who led by a Beem (68), to feel good on the stroke entering the Brandt (67) and final round and
back. Somehow I 

little known the 1997 and 2001 Arjun Atwal (64), hung in there and winner here, shot a native of India got lucky." a 76 and was well and a regular on back at 214. the Asian tour for Defending champi­
Phil Mickelson

eight years, each on Zach Johnson birdied their last golfer had a 72 and was 
third playoff hole. 
Mickelson and Beem advanced to the fourth playoff hole when each had tap-in birdies on No. 18. 
With the weather sunny and in the 70s, the scores came down Monday after the first two rounds were washed out by rain on Thursday and Friday and delayed 99 minutes on Saturday at the TPC at Sugar 
'Loaf. 
Scott McCarron, 

hole,to earn a playoff berth along with Olazabal. 
Mickelson and Beem had pars on the first playoff hole to advance to the second playoff hole along with Olazabal. Brandt and Atwal each hit into the water that guarded the green on 18, shot over par and were eliminated. 
Olazabal, Mickelson and Beem each parred the second playoff hole, the 455-yard, par 4 to send it back to 18 for the 
at 213. 
Mickelson, the tour's leading money-winner, earned $900,000 of the $5 mil­lion purse. 
The world's No. 4 player had a strange round as he prepared for Thursday's opening round at Augusta. 
Mickelson wound up with seven birdies, two bogeys and a double bogey in regulation. He was all over the course with his driver on the opening nine, fin­ishing with a 37, including hit-


121 S. Niles @ Jefferson, downtown South &nd (574) 232-8488 +Hours: Mon.-Sat. 10-6 

ting into water twice and draw­ing a 1-shot penalty on each. He also tried to hit out of a creek bed and moved it only a foot on No. 9 and had bogey. He then had a bogey-free back nine for a 32 with four birdies. 
"My swing started to feel good on the back. Somehow I hung in there and got lucky," he said. 
Mickelson is one of the 19 players who remained in the field, playing in the Masters. 
Tied for sixth, one stroke back at 209 were Frank Licklighter (68), Scott Dunlap (69), Arron Oberholser (69), and Tag Ridings (69). 
Rain has affected eight of the 14 tournaments on tour so far this year. 
Dept. of Irish Language & Literature Roinn Theanga 7Litriocht na Gaeilgc 

Fall 2005 Course Offerings IRLL 10101 Introduction to Modern Irish I IRLL 10102 Introduction to Modern Irish II IRLL 20103 Intermediate Irish Language IRLL 20105 Introduction to Old Irish IRLL 30107 The Hidden Ireland: Issues in 18th Cent. Irish Poetry IRLL 60303 Poetry and Politics in Early Modern Ireland 1541-1688 
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
CLUB SPORTS 
Gagnon finishes fourth in tnen's all-around cotnpetition 
qualifying race the Irish over­but falling to USD and UCSB.
Men's and women's 
came rudder problems to make UCL won the race with a time gymnastics teams it to the afternoon's third final. of 6:30.0. 
Throughout the race the team "It was one of our best racesplace fifth in meet kept up with close compotition this year," coxswain Abbie from Colorado and the UC San Daugher said. "The guys never Special to The Observer Diogo. Tho last five hundred let up even when we were 
proved difficult when the down." 
Ovnr 200 gymnasts rnprnsont­toam's steering failed and thoy ing 1 S schools participated in foil bohind to sixth place in the Men's Volleyball this w1wkend's Clover Classie, heat odging out San Diego The Notre Dame Men's at (;ymnastics Miehiana. The State for a spot in the after­Volloyball team traveled to Ball Irish placnd lif'th in both men's noon competition. The Irish State this weekend to play in and women's competition. ondnd with a time of 6:36.7 the MIVA Championships. The Triton won the men's division, bohind Colorado with a time of Irish play in the Midwest Ten with Pnnn State and Purdue 6:19.4 and UCSD and UCL with Conference which along with plaring sncond and third. Pnnn timns of 6:28 and (J:35.0, the Big Ten and the Greater Statn took lirst in the wonwn's respectively. Midwest Conference, comprise division, followed by Ohio and Thn .Junior Varsity Crew's the MIVA. The Irish opened the l'urdtw. hoat was full of some of tho championships with a convinc­
Za('h (;agnon placed fourth toughest competition in thoir ing win over Iowa. in all around eompntition for division. The men cctmn out to They disposed of the tlw Irish, as w11Il as first on an narly start and hold oven llawkeyos in two games, 25­still rings, second on vault. with Stanford and UCLA 23, 25-21, behind the bloeking fourth in high bar, and sixth in through tho first thousand of Dan Parziale, Joe O'Connoll parallld barts. Brian Dunn, mnters hut fell back during tho and Mike Giampa. Mik11 McGrady and Paul Kano last halt' of the race. Despite Thn team then played also narnPd points for tho falling back the Irish posted a Central Michigan and utilized Irish. strong time or (J:41. 75 right the superior passing or .John 
Snniors Mary Bhtznwiez and behind UCLA with a time of Tibblo, Jamie Ward and Hyan Caitlin O'Brien continue to lnad (J:35.h and UC Davis with a Dax to easily dispose or the tlw Irish. Both barely missnd (J:29. . Chippewas in two games, 25­pI a c i n g in s1wn r a I o v n n t s. During tho first 500-meters 16, 25-22. The Irish then Susan .Innings, Wondy .Jo of the varsity final, the Irish faced their toughest opponent SvntnotT. Cecilia Torros, Krissy fell behind due to a sluggish or tho day in the Ohio State .Jackson, Maura Stood, Cigi start and somn choppy water. Buckeyes. The Buckeyes out­Low and .la1:quolyn Carnoy all I>ntmm i nation pulled thn team lasted the Irish in a tough contributor! to tho Irish scor­up though, and by the thou­three game match, 23-25, 25­ing. sand motor mark tho Irish 20, 15-10. 
Tlw club will close tho sea­worn oven with Santa Clara, The Irish finished the day son on April 1 f1th, at the Sacramento State and the with a convincing win over NAI<:<: Nationals in Buffalo, Univnrsity of San Diego. "It Ohio University, 25-18, 25-21. 
N.Y. was intnr,sn," two seat Todd The Bobcats could not figure llawks said. "Wn really camo out setter Nolan Kane who Rowing togethnr during tho second continued to create one-on-orw 
Tho Mnn's Howing Toarn 500. Onen we startnd walking situations for his hitters by lwadnd to thn beach to takn on wn wnrn determined to finish baffling the Bobcats' blockers. sonw of thn most rnspnetnd strong." On Sunday tho Irish opened ITnws in l.lw country this weok­Notrn Dame pulled out fourth with Minnesota for the right to nnd at tho San Dingo Crnw place in the event with a time advance to the gold tourna­Classic. or 6:34.4 edging out Santa ment. After a shoulder injury 
In Saturday morning's varsity Clara and Sacramento State to Middle Blocker Joe 
Registration 411 
(Part 2 of 3 in this issue) 
Course Renumbering lnfonnation 
Five-digit course numbers are new for Summer and Fall 2005. 
Find out what the new nurnbering scherr1e m,eans, find a S~dtgtt number from the old 3*dtgtt number, and find out how to use the new numbering scheme to your advantage m searches for labs, tutonals.. seminars" etc, 
Access the Student Services channel via 
http:/ /inside.nd.edu 
T"'i·"•·•. 

Registrar 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
\fq NOTRE DAME

Resource Center 
Office of the ~nr.u

http://registrar. nd. edulrrc.shtml 
O'Connell the Irish had to make some unanticipato changes to their lineup, mov­ing Hyan Goes from Outside Hitter back in to Middln Blocker. The last second changes weren't enough to overcome the veteran settor from Minnesota, as the Irish lost to the Gophers in three games, 19-25,25-19,15-12. With a new goal of winning tho silver tournament the Irish came out fired up behind replacement outside hitter Drew Williams and quickly dis­posed of the Iowa llawkoyes, again in two games, 25-21, 25­
21. The Irish met Bowling Green University in the next round of the tournament. Kevin Overmann and Mike . Toomey led tlw Irish to an easy victory with well-placed jump serves, 25-21, 25-13. In tho-silver tournament l'inals the Irish faced conference rival Univeristy of Wisconsin­Milwaukee. Despite the solid play at outside hitter by Mike Toomey the Irish couldn't take home the championship, losing to UW-Milwauken in two games, 25-22, 25-21. The Irish finish their season in two weeks at the National Championships in Kansas City, Missouri. Over 150 men's dub teams will compete at tlw tour­nament, which consists of four divisions-lA, tAA, 2 and :~. The Irish reward for an extremely successful season was being placed in compete in the Division 1 A tournament. 
Women's Water Polo 
Notre Dame's women's water polo team traveled to the Miami Ohio Invitational this weekend, an event featuring several top ten ranked teams. Tho Irish dropped their Friday opnnnr to the host Hodhawks, 3-2. Kimmy Moore and Bridgnt O'Noill scored the squad's two goals. 
The loss would prove to be the only blemish on the week­end, as the Irish rallied to thump Northwestorn 11-2 with O'Neill setting the paco with four goals. Moor and MC Cimino each added a hat triek, with Kristy Bohling accounting for the other goal. The Irish then defeated Purdue, 7-5, behind the balanced attaek Ql' Moore and O'Neill with two goals each, and Cimino, Bohling and Meghan Keane registering solo goals. On Sunday, the Irish posted an impressive 6-5 victory over the varsity squad from Slippery Hock. O'Neill's two goals again led a balanced attack, as Cimino, Boling, Katie Lancos and Kristin Schmidt <~ach scored against the Rockets. 
Salling 
Strong, winds of 15-25 and drizzle dampened opening day of the Big Ten Team Haee at Michigan this past weekend. Although ten round robin races were completed, there were numerous capsizes and two postponements duo to wind. Despite sunny and warmer conditions on Sunday, the turn in the weather was not enough to help the Irish, who finished fifth in a strong live-team linld. Northwestern took f'irst plaen with a 6-2 record, f'ollownd by Minnesota and Wisconsin at !i­3, Michigan, 4-4, and thn Irish, 0-8. 
Cycling 
Five members of the Notre 

Dame Cycling Team travnl11d to Purdue this week11nd to com­pote in thn two day Purdtw Hoad Hacn and Cril!~rium. Law Student (;oof'f (;islnr, Freshman Matt Prygoski and Sophmorn Sean Calloway corn­poted against a field of fift.y riders in the Men's C road racn on Saturday. The race was four laps of tho race loop, totaling to :B.6 miles. Winds of up to 40 mph made this a vnry difti­cult race. Sean Calloway was involved in a crash on the tirst of the four laps, and pullml out. of the race with minor injurios, while Gisler and Prygoski. in his first races, held strong to finish third and tenth 1'11SJWI:­tivnly. 
Mike Lavery and Dan Arlandson racedvtlw Men's B road race, a six lap racn of 
50.5 miles. By lap three, tlw winds had broken the. pack of 60 riders, many dropping out. or riding the rest of the raee solo, or in groups of two or three, while a break away group of 20 riders was well in front. Lavery managed to stay with the lead paek, which diminishnd in numbers as tlw race progrnssml. At tlw tinish. Lavery rollod through in I Oth place, with Arlandson coming in nine minutos later in 25th postion. This provod to bn a solid performancn overall for tho opening road raee. 
Sunday's Criterium was a short course with many sharp curves and cornnrs, raced on time rather than distance. In the 45-minuto Mnn's C race, the sp1111ds were fast, and the riding was aggressivn. Matt Pry-goski and Geoff (;isler were the only two members to race, while Sean Calloway sat out dun to nagging pain from his prnvious day's crash. Both riders rode with the pack tlw entire raee. 
Gisler was fenling strong. and out sprinted anotlwr ridnr on tlw linn to take tlw win. something only onn otlwr Notrn Damn cydist has nvnr done. 
l'rygoski finished in tlw mid­dle of the 30-man f'inld, not taking any chances in his tirst. Criterium 
Tho Men's B pa1:k raeed soon afterwards in a 55-minute race, Lavery and Arlandson were the Irish representatives. Once again, the speeds werP fast, averaging over 24 mph, and the riding was aggressive, with many riders attacking tho field throughout the race in attempts to break away. MikP Lavery was part of a three man breakaway at 45 minutes, that held their load for 2.5 laps, allowing Lavery to take seeond place points at an intermndiatn sprint. Overall, Mike finished 12th among 45 ridnrs. Arlandson was forced to drop out after 30 minutes, due to a recent bout with tho flu. 
Ultimate 
Notre Dame's ultimatn eluh split tlwir squads this wnnknnd and traveled to two venuns. The women com pntnd at Wisconsin, winning two of' three contests. Belying on l.hn strnngth of their zonn def'ensn, the Irish opnrwd with a 1]-7 vietory over Illinois. l>nfnns11 provnd thn dif'l'nrnnce in tlw sncond garnn as wnll; hut this tinw it was· that or Northwnstnrn. Thn Wildcats innovative dnf'nnsn stymind tlw Irish, who trailnd 7-2 at tlw 
hutr. 

page 20 
Hartmann, but was called out at first base for leaving the
Shutouts 
bag too early. Carrie Wisen followed with a single thatcontinued from page 24 
scored Laing from third to Dame's skipper. plate Notre Dame's first run. 
"The first game we didn't Kelsey Wicks pinch ran for do a good job of taking Wisen and then proceeded to advantage of our effectively steal a opportunities," run -swiping Gumpf said. second base
"Both our pitchers
"The second cleanly and then game it was did a good job of attempting to more a case of steal third. The
playing their 
their pitcher , throw down to 
game.
making good third by Villa­pitches and our nova catcher 
Deanna Gumpf 
team managing Cassie Koenig a few lucky hits, Irish coach was wild, and 
but in that first game I thought we could have done more." 
Notre Dame jumped on top early in game one, stringing together two runs in the top of the second inning off Villanova starter Kristen Haynes. Laing opened the inning with a double, and Liz Ilartmann reached first on an error while Laing· moved to third. 
Sarah Smith pinch ran for 
Wicks came home to score on the error. 
The Irish tacked on another run in the fourth inning, with Gessica Hufnagle leading off with a double. Hufnagle advanced to third on Laing's groundout and came around to score on a single by Hartmann. 
Laing scored her second run of the game in the sixth inning, again leading off the 
The Observer + SPORTS 
frame with a double. Laing stole third and then scored to make the score 4-0 after Mallorie Lenn reached first on an error. 
In game two, Laing contin­ued her hot hitting, knocking a solo home run to left field off Villanova pitcher Shannon Williams. The Irish would score their only other run in the game in the fifth inning, as Lenn led off with a walk, stole second, advanced to third on a groundout and came around to score on Sara Schoonaert's RBI single. 
Notre Dame was also scheduled to play Rutgers in a doubleheader Saturday, but that series was rained out. It will be made up if the Irish have not already clinched the Big East title at the end of the regular season. 
Notre Dame returns home to face Eastern Michigan in a doubleheader today begin­ning at 4 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
·1 I 

Senior pitcher Steffany Stenglien winds up at Ivy Field against Western Michigan March 24. 
NHL 
NHLPA rejects 2 proposals 
Monday's meetings first since March 17 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -The players' 

association rejected two NHL 
proposals and the two sides 
met for seven hours Monday, 
trying to make progress 
toward ending the 6 1/2­
month-old lockout. 
The session at an undis­

closed location in Toronto 
began around 1 p.m. EDT and 
wrapped up around 8 p.m. As 
expected, the NHLPA did not 
come armed with a proposal. 
"The players' association began today's meeting by rejecting the two proposals made by the NHL on March 17 ,'' NHL executive vice pres­ident Bill Daly said in a state­ment. "Thereafter, we dis­cussed the status of our cur­rent situation and, in general terms, possible concepts for moving the process forward. The meeting concluded with both sides agreeing to explore these concepts further inter­nally, and to talk again later this week." 
A bigger group got together this time around, with NHLPA president Trevor Linden and the players' executive com­mittee joining the negotia­tions. The ownership group was led by chairman of the board Harley Hotchkiss of the Calgary Flames, as well as New Jersey Devils president Lou Lamoriello. 
They joined NHLPA execu-
Tuesd 

Softball VS Eastern Michigan 
·•·Baseball VSToledo e (doubleheader) 
at 5:05PM at 3:00 &5:00 PM 
~ Frank Eck Stadum ~ Ivy Field 
The first 100 fans receive a bat 
tion of the season, Saskin said in a statement. "Although no meetings were scheduled today, I expect Bob and Gary will be speak­ing soon to set up future dis­cussions." 
Also Mon­day, the NHL filed a second charge against the NHLPA 
with the National Labor Relations Board, this time challenging the union's threat of decertification for agents representing replacement players. 
The NHLPA has warned agents, although not in writ­ing, they faced possible decertification if they repre­sented any player crossing the line to be a replacement player. 
The NHL hinted at the use of replacement players at a March 1 board of governors 
an
ase 
a 
"We discussed some concepts aimed at addressing the challenges faced by all ofus as a result ofthe NHL's lockout.,, 
Ted Saskin NHLPA senior director 
two proposals by the NHL, the first a team-by-team $37.5-million salary cap deal that did not have a fixed link between player costs and league revenues . 
The second offer was based on linkage, with player costs to take up no more than 54 per cent of league revenues. 
The league had given the union until this Friday to work off the "de-linked" offer, but instead the union arrived Monday in Toronto without a counterproposal. 
ize members who become replacement players. 
The NHL became the first major American sports league to cancel an entire season in Feb­ruary because of the lockout. 
The two sides had not met since March 17 in New York, when the NHLPA was presented 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles open MIAA schedule at Tri-State 
By PATRICK McCABE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will tackle the Tri­State Thunder in a road match today at 3 p.m. 
Although Tri-State is enjoying its inaugural year in the MIAA, the Belles have faced them for several years. The Thunder are currently 0-2 in conference play and 1-9 overall. The Belles are 0­0. 
Despite the Thunder's record, Belles coach Dee Stevenson expects focus and diligence from his team. He also mentioned his teams was hungry and eager to begin league play. 
"They have been waiting for this since spring break," he said. "This is a somewhat crucia:I match. We have beaten them often in the past, but we must start league play well." 
Despite sending many under­classmen to play Adrian College this past Saturday, Stevenson intends to start his regulars. 
"I will play my regulars since whatever our team does will affect [regular season] conference standings and postseason seeds." 
However, the 3-5 start to the season has neither disheartened nor fazed the Belles. 
Stevenson also addressed the loss of Grace Gordon to an ACL injury and the overall slate of injuries dogging the Belles. 
"This is a new situation for us," he said. "Prior to this season, I 
Baseball Games 
have never had a player severely injured. Now, we have three who have injured knees. Grace's injury has constrained us to adjust our singles and doubles arrange­ments. We're all disappointed, particularly the girls and Grace." 
But Grace continues to actively support and bolster the team's confidence. 
"She accompanied us to the Chicago match and is now our team manager for the remainder of the season, although I have never had one before," Stevenson said. 
Ironically, the Belles hope thun­der will not be an issue for today's match. 
Inclement weather has twice force postponements of a match against Olivet and has frustrated Stevenson. 
"We are hoping that our match is not rained out," he said. "We have already postponed one and want to avoid delaying another. The season is already short." 
In addition to compressing the Belles' schedule, the foul weather had reduced court time and restricted the players to indoor conditioning. 
Nonetheless, Stevenson fore­casts clean play for Tuesday. 
"We should exhibit no rust," he said. "The players have had more court time recently and practice a lot. We have to keep practicing to stay sharp," he said. 
Contact Patrick McCabe at pmccabe@nd.edu 


tive director Bob Goodenow, senior director Ted Saskin, NI-IL commissioner Gary Bettman and Daly. 
"We discussed some con­cepts aimed at addressing the challenges faced by all of us as a result of the NHL's lock­out and subsequent cancella­meeting, and planned to revisit the issue at an April 20 board of governors meeting in New York. 
The league first filed a charge against the NHLPA with the NLRB on March 25 over a union policy that appears to financially penal­
-

·1 iresday, April 5, 2005· The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
SOME OF THE BEST TEAM NAMES
Bookstore 
1. U got a bad draw 
continued from page 24 
3. Looking for a sponsor at the moment 
and tlw usual array of partici­pants who arn more con­cnnwd with prn-gaming than t.lw game's final outcome. 
llownvnr, all nyns will be on tho top-seeded tnam, aptly nanwd "U c;ot a Bad Draw." Ca p t a i rw d hy C h i n e d u m Ndukwn, tim squad fnaturns Notrn Damn quartl~rback Brady Quinn, Hrie Laumann and Dan Stnvnnson from last ynar's KI'MG tnam, which won tlw titlo. 
"I can't ronwmlwr having a rnturning champion with sueh a complntn tnam," Maher said. 
ThP tnam is propared to lakn Oil any and a() oJ' thn eompnlitors in ordor to main­lain tlwir claim to tho top spot. 
"Tiw most important thing for us is dnfonding our litln," Ndukr~wn said. "Obviously, last ynar was a battln -wn camn back from !wing down liko I 0 points or so tho last thrnn gamns of thn tourna­ment." 
Likn many othnr teams in tlH• tournanwnl. u c;ot a Bad Draw did not practicr~ formal­ly oulsidn of game limn. 
"Wn have a tradition we startml last yPar that wn don't prarlicn until the first ganw 
~n ~~~.ay-so wn d.on't.. p,rac­t r c n . N d u k we saul. I h a t usually is what works for us bnst bneause wn know nach otlwr on tlw tnam pretty wnll ... we 'rn really an all natural 
lnam." 
Choosing a name is some­limos the most important part of a squad's proparation for the tournarnnnt. Names often rnl'lr~d pop culture -for oxam pie, the movie "Napolnon Dynamite" inspired at lnast night team names this season. 
8, The bad guys from Space Jam 
43. This much athleticism on one team should be illegal 
78. 
Four jersey chasers who finally found one 

79. 
Four engineers and their future boss 


97. Really hoping we play girls or drunks in the first 
138. Please pair us with some drunk people 
157. One and one 
180. We declined an invitation to the NIT 
184. Imet my future wife on thefacebook 
256. Swing state 
279. The first round is our championship game 
283. 5 hot girls who will probably lose in the first round but are hoping to get lucky, again 
308. We don't make shots, we take shots 
359. Five guys who are going pro in something other than sports 
373. The Dollar Value Menu 
391. Give us some apples 'cuz we're making turnovers 
414. At least we could beat Holy Cross 
518. Brady where'd you get that tan 
551. Hoosier daddy 
554. We may not wear thong leotards but you'll want to call on us 
566. 5'2" and under ankle biters 
590. Check out these brackets 
Unfortunately, some teams Jumpball, a program located arn simply numbered after in Jamaica that offers free thnir names fail to mont corn­basketball clinies to disadvan­mitten standards. taged youths. 
"I think it's probably just "The way w(~ play our tour­we've gotten away from nament provides support for remembering that it's a bas­the Jumpball organization," ketball tournament," Geist Maher said. "We want every­said. "There's been an body to know that this year increase in the interest in tho phrase is 'We play so they eom ing up with a team name can play."' ... I would hope the focus is A portion of registration more on the basketball tour­fees will benefit the organiza­nament and the charity it tion. benefits." 
This year, tournament offi­Contact Kate Gales at cials are working to publicize kgales@nd.edu 
Registration 411 
(Part 3 of 3 in this issue) 
Exemption Forms Replaced 
No more exemption forms 
or authorization numbers! See the oepartment offering the dass for new *eJectronic~ perm,sstons and authonzattons. Collect your permissions now for a smooth reg1strat;on! 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Tri-State sweeps doubleheader 
By TOM STILES Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's (5-1 0) droppnd both games of its double-head­er to Tri-State University ( 12-7) Monday afternoon by the scores of 6-1 and 10-5. Tho Bolles are now 0-2 against MIAA oppo­nents and find themselves in the midst of a seven game los­ing streak, with their last win coming during the spring trip against Emmanuel College back on March 10. 
Hust may have played a sig­nilieant role in tho Belle's slug­gish play, as the games yester­day were the first action the team has seen sincn mid­MarciL Unfortunately, all games of the Trinity lntP.rnational Tournament from this past weekend were can­celled. 
Game one saw much of' the same typo of play that has resulted in the Belles finding themselves l'ive games under .500. The Saint Mary's o!Tense managed just live hits off Tri­State pitcher Abbie Walker, and the defense didn't help out freshman pitcher McKenna Corrigan by committing thror1 errors in the field. 
Junior third baseman Laura Heline had two hits, ineluding the team's only extra-base hit, and scored the ol'fense's only run of the game in tho top of' second when freshman catcher 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
bles compared to Notre Dame's lour hits, three runs and one dou­ble. The Irish wore outhit on the game 17-9. 
Into the eighth inning, Notre Dame had as many errors as hit<> -five. Hutgers led 9-3, the Irish fought back pieking away at the Knights' lead with two runs in tho top of the eighth. 
In a dramatic comeback in the top of the ninth, tho Irish sent eight batters to the plate and put up live runs after surrendering a run in the bottom of the eigh'l.h. Freshman Tony Langford launched the game-tying home run, his second homer of tho game. 
The instant classic headed into the 1Oth inning tied at 10. 
Notre Dame closer Hyan Doherty fanned the first two Rutgers batters he faced but couldn't finish. One out away from sending the game to its 11th inning, the 7-1 New Jersey native -who pitched 2.2 innings-then yielded three singles in-a-row. The Scarlet Knights' Johnny Dofendis lined the game-winning single to 
-------, 
Contact Tom Stiles at tstiles@nd.edu 
-
Megan Myers delivernd with an HBI singlo. Corrigan pitchnd well enough for tlw win in giv­ing up thrnn earnnd runs on s<won hits in hor six innings of work, but threo Bolles miscuns aceountod for tho thrr~e unearned runs. 
Game two saw each oiTnnse come alivn, but. four morn Prrors and timely hitting by Tri­State eventually did in Saint Mary's. Junior pitcher BridgM Grall was rouglwd up for 13 hits and sevnn narnnd runs in seven innings, and t.hn ofTnnsn couldn't figure out Tri-State's Walker the sncond time around as she gave up only onn hit. in shutting down tho Bnllns over the linal t.hrno innings. 
Myers and junior second baseman Mnghan Marenkovic led thn way on offnnsn with t.wo hits apinee. Maronkovic, fresh­man J)) I Both /\chterhoiT. soph­omore shortstop Sarah Minslo and junior cnnterlir~lder /\udrny c;ajor all chipped in with an HBI each. 
Grall could not stop Tri­State's outlinldnr duo of Stnph Dura and Karly llookor, who eaeh had throo hits and com­bined for four HBI's and thrnn runs scored. 
Next up for the Bnllns will lw Albion College this Wodnnsday at 3:30 p.m. at tho Saint Mary's Sol'tball Diamond. 
left-center lilr the 11-1 0 victory. 
Matt Edwards and Craig Cooper each had two-hit days for tho Irish. 
/\11-linw, Notre Damn and llutgers havn cornpnt.od in I X garnos deeidml by two or fnwnr runs. 
Junior centnrlidder /\lex N<'l.t.ny extended his hitting stn•ak to 14 games with hits in each of l.lw Monday games. Through tlw first 25 gamns, snwnd basnman Bn~u. Lillny lnads thn Irish with ovnr a .550 on-base pnrenntagn. Tlw Sc.arlnt Knights wen~ abln to nm throughout thn two-game snt ­stealing seven basns on the Irish dol(mse. 
The Irish return to action tonight to face their third Mid-1\rnnriean Conference tnam this season-the Toledo HoekoL<> (7­
17) -at 5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. Notre Damn is 2-0 against MAC opponents this sea­son. In another midwnnk dash against a M/\C opponent, thn Irish will remain at home against Ball State ( 1 G-9) Wednesday bnl'ore continuing Big East Conl'nrnnen play at Boston College this week­end. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
Write for Mike. Calll-4543. 
r 
page 22 Tuesday, April 5, 2005
The Observer + SPORTS 

With returning personnel, Bobby Renkes and [sophomore] tioned about who would return many sides. Polian has seen a number of Carl Gioia for kicking, so we'll kicks. "There's about 20 names "We're pretty optimistic going 
Special 

positives. see what happens after the end who want to go back there and into the spring," Fitzpatrick "I like our tempo when we're of the spring." try it, and they're not all offen­said. "Everybody's working
continued from page 24 

practicing in the kicking Fitzpatrick is the leading sive players. hard. We had a good off-season special teams through the game," he said. "I think we punter and place-kicker from "There are skill guys on lifting and conditioning. We're beginning of spring practice. have a lot of first-team guys on 2004. He had all 67 of Notre defense ... and really getting after 
"Bernie and I do this whole both offense and defense that Dame's kicking points and took that's fine, we'll special teams, thing together," Polian said. are willing and working their 79 of the 81 attempted Irish take a look." we've got all the "The package that we're run­butts off in the kicking game. I punts. Regarding long coaches working
"/ think it's a credit 
ning in the kicking game is a think that's a real positive. I Competition for filling the snapping, the on it and the atti­
to the head coach 
collection of everything he has think there's going to be good roles of graduating senior kick graduation of tude's very high. done and liked and everything I competition for the snapping returners Carlyle Holiday and Casey Dunn with the emphasis We see nothing have done and like and finally, job, and I think our kickers Carlos Campbell is also wide leaves the posi­on the kicking but good things for everything Coach Weis has have done a pretty good job so open. tion open. us in the future." 
game to assign two
wanted to do." far." · "We did not come in here "We have a few Polian agrees 
Weis' involvement with spe­D.J. Fitzpatrick, a former with a preconceived idea about scholarship guys coaches to it. " with the kicker's cial teams has had a "major walk-on now on scholarship who would return," Polian said. who are capable assessment. impact" in creating a staff-wide who filled in for an injured "Coach Weis said to the team, of long snapping, "Any good coach
Brian Polian 
emphasis on the kicking game Nick Setta at the end of the 'Wh.o wants to try?' And as but I think what at any level will
Irish assistant special 
so far, Polian said. 2003 season, started as place­we've worked in the phase this happens is a lot tell you the best 
"I think it's a credit to the kicker and punter in 2004. year in the first three practices, of times, you teams coach way to make a head coach with "I definitely want we've put a bunch of folks back don't delegate a football team bet­the emphasis on to handle both there, and we'll do it all scholarship just ter in a hurry is in the kicking game duties [again next throughout the spring. It's an for a guy who the kicking game,
"We're really 
to assign two season]," open dress rehearsal. If you've does nothing but long snap­and Coach has preached that coaches to it," getting after Fitzpatrick said. got an interest in doing it, ping," Weis explained. "I think since the day that we've Polian said. "Our special teams." ''I'm definitely try­we're going to put the guy back it's a great venue or a great arrived," he said. "He's empha­players know ing to shoot for all there and see what he can do." opportunity for a walk-on to sized it, we've got the entire that he takes it three: kickoff, punt Anyone interested in special come on and play, because if staff coaching in the kicking
D.J. Fitzpatrick
seriously because and field goal. teams was encouraged to try you have that skill, you could game with a lot of energy, and I he assigned two Irish kicker "I love being out returning kicks, although offen­play ... you have a chance of think our players are respond­coaches to it, and there, and as a sive players tend to have an getting on the field." ing to it and that's a real posi­the rest of the kicker, you don't advantage in the traditional Changes will come, but the tive." staff works at it just like we do get out there that much, so the catching skills. Irish are looking forward to on punt and kick returns." more you can do, the better. It "There are too many to men­improving after a difficult 2004 Contact Kate Gales at 
Parmalee and Polian are not keeps me in the game, it keeps tion," Polian said when ques-season that saw criticism from kgales@nd.edu 
setting out to make significant strategic changes on special teams. 
"Schematically, we're going to do what we believe in, and if it's what they did that's fine," Polian said. "We'll tweak some personnel and find the best guys across the board, and we'll play them in the kicking game." 

me loose and I just love it." 
At this point, a number of players are competing for all kicking duties. 
"It's open right now," Fitzpatrick said. "We have a new coaching staff and a new season ahead of us, so it's been a good fight with [sophomore] Geoff Price pushing me for punting and [sophomore] 
-FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Weis secures 1st class of 2010 recruit 
DeSmet Jesuit junior runs 4.3 40-yard dash 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Over 21 weeks remain until Notre Dame's season-opener, but Charlie Weis has already secured his first victory as head coach. 
Munir Prince, a running back/cornerback prospect out of DeSmet Jesuit High School in St. 

been committed to Iowa but reneged two months ago. 
"I think [Notre Dame] kind of surprised him when they offered," Frank said. "When he came up for the first Junior Day [on Feb. 26-27], he didn't expect to be offered. But his whole family came up last weekend. He met with the dean of sci­ences and he wants to major in sports medicine. I think he's going to do really well." 
Prince cannot sign a binding national letter of intent until 
next February. 
Other schools 

Louis, verbally "/ think [Notre recruiting him committed to include Iowa,
Dame] kind of
play football for Nebraska, the Irish during a surprised him Northwestern, Ohio Junior Day on when they State and Michigan campus Saturday. State.
offered."
lie is the first Though Prince player from the spurned the elass of 2010 to Mike Frank Hawkeyes, howev­commit to Notre lrisheyes.com er, Frank does not 
Dame. 
Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com expects Prince to suit up at running back for Notre Dame. 
"He's a tremendous player," Frank said. "He's got lots and lots of ability, and I think he's got all kinds of potential when it's all said and done." 
With a 4.3 second 40-yard dash time, Prince rushed for 1,397 yards and 13 touchdowns his sophomore year. He then ran for 986 yards and 11 touch­downs last season as a junior while playing in only eight games and with a sprained foot. 
The 5-foot-1 0 164-pound Prince, who has clocked a 10.6 second 100-meter dash, had see him going back 

on his word with the Irish. 
"I think he's pretty sold on Notre Dame and Charlie Weis," Frank said. "He made a com­mitment a long time ago to Iowa, and I think he thought maybe he should look a little harder at what he wanted to do." 
Prince's high school team­mate, tight end/defensive end Paddy Mullen, also attended last weekend's Junior Day. Notre Dame is recruiting Mullen but has not yet offered a scholar­ship. 
Contact Mike GiUoon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

Progroms indude:
Get the skiUs you need to succeed and lead in 
Biology, Chemistry, and today's competitive iob Physics market with a graduate degree from Illinois Institute of Technology. 

Engineering 
Math and Science Teacher 
Full.. cn1d port..fime Edvootion
progrorns ovoiloble. 
Ph.D., ~.;tS., Professional f.J\aster's, 

Pvbik Administration
and certificote progroms available. Technical Communkotion 
CaU 1312<567,3796 ILUNOIS INSTITUTE~·· Visit Iwwvditedv OF TECHNOLOGY E~maill inqviry.grod@iitedv 

t____ 

Tuesday, April 5, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
FROM NOW ON, MY 
NICKNAME WILL BE 

"THE WIZARD." IT PLEASE LETS SEE 
DON'T. 

) 
SPEAKS TO MY GURU WHICH ONE STATUS. CATCHES ON QUICKER.
I 

CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

JroJOOLID)1L& 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ALLIC 
1 
rJ 
C2005 Tribuna Media Services, Inc. 
~~~~rr J 
tSNUFIL j 

WHY THE: BL.ONO NE:WSC.ASTE:!<
J r
1 
MOOE:!<ATe:D
www.jumble.com 
THE: Oe:BATE:. 
BOCHOR 

V' 'l l J Now arrange the circled letters
l .A to form the surprise answer, as
1

'----'"""-""-'---'---'---'-"--'-' suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: rI I ]wAs "( I I I J" 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's Jumbles: PROBE AGING JUMBLE BOUGHT 
Answer: What the drivers did in the demolition derby ­A "BANG-UP" JOB 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 40 State defense 70 _Not just tear up 
Retreats organization 71 "Tristram headed by
7 Dry, as wine Shandy" author 
Washington10 It leaves marks 43 Its flight

on asphalt DOWN
attendants'

14 Triumphant cry 1 Televised sign
greeting is 15 Word often said "Shalom" in football twice before stands
44 Magician's start

"again" 2 Hersey's bell
45 Word prefixed

16 Numbers game town
with poly­

17 She wed 3 Love of artistic
46 Edison's New 

George objects
Jersey lab locale 
Washington 4 D.C. summer
48 "Welcome" site 20 Niagara Falls' clock setting
49 Where 

prov. 5 Fed. biomedical
Washington's research agcy.

21 Karel Capek forces wintered play 55 Defense aid 6 Deprive of food 22 Church nooks 7 Fab Four
59 Writer Fleming 23 Where drummer
so Time Warner Washington merger partner aDirectional suffix relaxed 
61 Colonial force 9 Dancer Charissa 28 Wrath 
headed by 1 0 Old record 29 Pi preceder Washington problem 34 Friend in the 66 _Stanley 11 Popular Southwest Gardner sneakers 37 Forsaken 67 Belfry flier 12 "Picnic" 
39 Ready for 68 corpus playwright 36 Investments 48 Avian talkers 56 Oral tradition picking 69 Faculty head usually held for
13 Female deer 50 Needing a good 57 "To Live and 
yrs. and yrs.

18 date brushing, say Die ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 37 Kind of suit
19 Rajah's wife 51 Ingest 58 Bingo call
found in a

24 Carp 52 Scarcer 62 Peacock
courtroom 

25 "Star Trek: network
38 Sculling need 53 Beatnik's T.N.G." 41 Queen in "The encouragement 63 Musical talent 
counselor Lion King" 54 "Family Ties" 64 Lang.'s
26 Bellini opera mom
42 Page (through) opposite 27 Prefix with 
47 Chapter 57 55 Served past 65 Face on a fiver 
potent 30 "The Count of For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with aMonte " credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
31 Film director Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundayMartin crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
32 Mayberry boy Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
-::t-:*::+:±:+.::::+::-t-:-1 33 Close 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -:-:t-:::+-:+:::-i 34 Swear to Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 35 Actor O'Shea solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES IIORN ON THIS DAY: Jamie Lynn Spears. 14; Heath Ledger. 21i: Nancy McKeon. 39; Roher! Downey Jr .. 40 
Happy Hirthday: This is your time to gel your ideas out there. Don't worry ahout heing a lillie ahead of your time: hefore you know il everyone will sec your vision and jump on your handwagon. For now, helicve in you and what you know you can do. Your numhers ure 2, 7, 21, 25, 32, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): If you want a relationship to last, you must put in the time and allention reyuired. Don't take anything for granted. It will he worth your while to nurture the relationships and the situations in your life that mean ihe most ­to you. •••• TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Prohlcms will occur if you disagree with your hoss or co-workers. You arc not likely to win a debate. so stick to doing your own thing. You can avoid trouhle if you work diligently on your own projects. •• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have a desire to learn something new. Surf the Internet or pick up some reading material that will hring you the knowledge you need to go ahead with a joh you've hccn thinking ahoul undertaking. Someone special will come into your life today.***** CANCER (.June 21-.luly 22): The added responsibilities of caring for older relatives will slow you down today. Don't neglect your own family or joh. Try to he positive when dealing with others, and you will get a fur hettcr response. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Everything will depend on how you handle yourself anu those around you today. Consider how you really feel he fore you discuss personal matters with loved ones. A change of heart may he what's confusing you. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Today will he all ahoul work and accomplishment. You will have the discipline and the desire to do whatever is necessary to hring you the advancement you want. You will receive recognition for your efforts. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Everything is looking very interesting in the romance department. Children may play an intricate role in your life today. A creative project you've been trying to gel off the ground shoulu gel the push it needs. ••••• SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let anyone dump responsihilities in your lap. You should he making a residential move or allcasl alterations to the conditions you are living under. Change will make a positive diiTerencc. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You'll he surprised how many people arc willing to pitch in and help. Visit friends or get involved in projects or an organization ihnt will allow you to meet new people. •••• CAPRICORN (l)ec. 22-.Jan. 19): You may find yourself in u very uniyuc situation at work. Don't luke sides. Opportunities arc coming your way, so he prepared lo handle what's going on uround you. ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't feel hud for being truthful. Your ahility to get your point across will he appreciated in the end. Even if others arc not in total agreement with you. you will guin respect. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Stay on lop of health und linandalmallers if you don't want to face trouhle in the future. Deal with institutional mailers swiftly. Not everything and everyone will he as clear-cut as you'd like to think. ••• 
Uirthday llahy: You arc like a sparkler: hrighl, incandescent and a true visionary. You arc someone who can and will do whatever is within your means to make the world a hcllcr place. You arc a humanitarian, a scholar and a very gifted individual. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for.fcm, t'ugenia/ast.com for Cot((idemial consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 
page 24 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
World's largest outdoor tourney tips off today 
nament, an annual event at Notre Dame sentiments. high school a little bit." 
By KATE GALES since 1972. "The tournament is a good way to get Faculty advisor Amy Geist said the 

Associate Sports Editor "I think it brings a great sense of involved on campus," he said. "It's nice number of the teams has increased 
excitement, a great _1111:".,...,.-._..,._ _....,.IIIJ!!!!!l to get a team of your slightly over recent years. 
Fifteen minutes of fame or a lasting sense of community," friends together and go "We definitely have more teams legaey? Bookstore Basketball offers said Luke Maher, a jun-out and just have some signed up this year than we have in the ehances for both. ior who is the Executive fun playing basketball past [few years]," she said. "I hope that 
Months of hard work selecting team­Commissioner for this with tons of people that's a good indication of people on mates, choosing a name and developing year's tournament. "It's watching." campus being excited about Ithe tour­plays and defensive schemes are set to great to see so many Among tomorrow's nament]." culminate tonight, when over 3,000 people out there -not games, March Badness The field features varsity basketball Notre Dame students and staff mem­only playing in games will make its debut. players like Jordan Cornette, four of the bers will lace up their basketball shoes but out there support-"I have not played five players on last year's championship for Bookstore Basketball XXXIV. ing their friends and roommates." before, I'm super excited though," cap-team, teams with corporate sponsors 
Over 600 teams will participate in the Patrick Schafer, a sophomore and tain David Sena said. "We've never nation's largest 5-on-5 basketball tour-captain of team No. 274, echoed similar played before, but we've all played in see BOOKSTORE/page 21 
FooTBALL 
Staff puts emphasis on special teams 

Irish 'getting after' last season's area of disappointment 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

The changes have come quiekly for the Irish football squad. But entering the spring,
-
no area is more uncertain than special teams. 
Head coach Charlie Weis has emphasized the impor­tance of spe-See Also 
cia! teams 
early, and "Weissecures1st the rest of class of 2010 the coaching 
recruit"

staff has worked to page 22 identify play­ers who could possibly contribute to the unit in any number of ways. Bernie Parmalee, Irish speeial teams coach, and his assistant Brian Polian have worked closely with Weis in developing 
see SPECIAL/page 22 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer Carl Gioia kicks off against Purdue last season. Coach Charlie Weis has emphasized improv­ing Notre Dame's special teams this spring. 
ND SoFTBALL 

Stenglein, Booth pitch shutouts at Villanova 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior Staff Writer 

Rain this weekend didn't rust the sharpness of the Irish pitchers. Both Steffany Stenglein and Heather Booth threw complete-game shutouts in Notre Dame's sweep of Villanova Monday afternoon in Philadelphia. 
"Both our pitchers did a good job of playing their 
game," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "Steffany really just dominated their hitters, and Heather did a good job of making them put the ball in play where she wanted. They were both phenomenal today." 
Notre Dame (19-8, 2-0) won game one against the Wildcats, 2-0, behind Stenglein's dominating 10­strikeout performance. Booth followed with a gem 
of her own in Notre Dame's 4-0 win over Villanova (19­13, 0-2) in game two of the doubleheader. 
The Irish were paced offensively by second base­man Katie Laing, who had two doubles in game one and had a key home run in game two, finishing the series 3-for-6 with three runs scored. 
"Katie really did a good job for us offensively," 

Gumpf said. "She was really on fire today, and that was good to see." 
Notre Dame's offense man­aged 16 hits off Villanova pitchers, but left too many runners on base, especially in the first game of the series. The Irish left six run­ners on base with less than two outs in game one, a sta­tistic that concerned Notre 
see SHUTOUTS/page 20 
BASEBALL 
Irish fall twice at Rutgers 
Winning streak snapped as Big East record falls to 3-3 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
Rain washed out the Notre Dame, Rutgers Big East series for two straight days. It also washed away any momentum the Irish had going into the conference showdown against the Scarlet Knights. 
Hiding a four-game winning streak as they headed to Piscataway. New Jersey to face archrival Rutgers, the Irish (13­12, 3-3 Big East) seemed poised for a strong showing against Rutgers, but the Scarlet Knights handled the Irish f(w the first 14 innings of their Monday afternoon make-up doubleheader sweep. 
Hutgers won the first game 5-3 in seven innings and pulled off another squeaker in the second 11-10 in 10 innings in another classic series. 
Hutgers' Jason Grover hit a grand slam in the fifth off of Notre Dame starter Tom Thornton in the opener. Thornton had retired the first nine batters he faced, but he had to work his way out of a bases loaded jam in the fourth and gave up the decisive four-run smash in the fifth -losing his fourth game of the season. 
In the second game, Irish were outplayed up until the eighth inning -with Rutgers racking up 12 hits, nine runs and three dou­
see BASEBALL/page 21 
SMC TENNIS

SMC SOfTBALl 
ClUB SPO~TS 

NCAA BASKETBAll 
SWIMMING

BASEBAll 

1--.....
c.:» Tri-State 6 
Saint Mary's at 

North Carolina 75 
Zach Gagnon places
Tri-State

z: Saint Mary's 1 
Third baseman Aramis 
Illinois 70 
Michael Phelps wins 
fourth in the men's all-

Ramirez and the Chicago 
two more races at the

a: ::3 
around gymnastics

== Tri-State 10 
Today, 3 p.m. 

Cubs agree to a $42-rnil­
u.s. world champi-

Sean May leads the 
competition at the

Saint Mary's 5 
lion contract extension. 
onship trials. 

Tar Heels to their first
c:c 
The Belles begin their 
Clover Classic. 

national title since 1993. 
conference schedule. 

a. =: 
en 
page 21 
page 20 
page 19 
page 18 

page 16 
page 15 





