
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 114 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30,2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Seniors, administrators still divided over dome 
do it. We realize this is a dis­was not released to students 
By MARY KATE MALONE appointment to tho senior earlier. 
News Wrircr class," 1\l'fleek-Graves said. ''I'll take the blame for it," 
Senior opposition has he said. "Honestly, I did not 
Though his of'l'ien in the grown sincn the procnss anticipate the huge reaction Main Building is loeatod just hogan on March 7. from the elass. Other times a f'nw f'loors bnlow tho statue "When I came back from the Dome has been re-gilded of' Mary and his nanw earries spring break and they had tho students have not been so with it tho titlo of' nxPeutive already started, I felt the upset." viee prnsidnnt, John 1\ffleek­administration pulled a fast In the last few weeks, stu­(;ravos sat at his dosk one. They could have polled dent government has stepped Tuesday al'tnrnoon and said student voices to gauge the in to try and stop the gilding t h a t lw e a n d o n o t h i n g to impad bnforn beginning the process. Senior class presi­romovn thn seaf'folding sur­procnss," senior Hob Van dent Darrell Scott told mem­rounding the golden dome, Corder said. bers of the Couneil of dnspitn the intnnsn backlash 1\l'f'lnek-Graves apologized Hepresentatives at their of' tlw senior class. for the laek of communication meeting March 21 that he 
"If' thorn was any way to do and admitted that it was his thn prot:t~ss f'asll~r. we would mistake that the information see DOME/page 4 

Students add on-calllpus jobs to daily studies 
Ll11 iversity employs 3,611 in various posts 
1\y LISA SCHUlTZ Nt·w.,Wrill'r 
Stut.lonts at Notrn Dame aro known for tlwir hard work and dod iration in tllP classroom. llowovor, tlw Univorsity also rot:ognizns tlwm as hard work­PI'S outsido of' rlass -in on­rampus jobs ranging from see­rotary to sandwich artist. 
Joyce Yatos, tlw assistant st.u­dPnt. nmploynwnt. 1:oordinator for tho 0 f'f'i 1: I' of Stud n n t. l':mployrnont, said from tho intorost shown on tho Univorsity Job Board, Notrn IJamn studonts som11 anxious to work. 
"/\s soon as wn post a rHlW position ion tho board!, it's gono," sho said. 
Tho onlirw rnsourco has been in usn for about throo yoars and is toutot.l as tho best plaee to start looking for an on-cam­pus job. 
For some students. employ­mont is a noenssity, a reason campus jobs aro highly sought. 
Sophomoro Molly Kealy has thnw jobs under work-study. Kealy, an /\lumni /\ssoeiation mrlploynn, sorvns as tho assis­
see JOBS/page 6 


By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
The opportunity to work is frn­quently presented to Notre Dame students as part of a financial aid offer. said Joe Russo, director of Finandal 1\id. 
Husso said that for the nearly 6,400 undergraduates who do receive some form of financial aid, the average amount is $23,000, with $2,300 being granted as the maximum typical olli.w to work. 
To earn the $2,300, Russo said a student receiving the basic pay rate would have to work about 12 hours a week, 15 weeks a semester. 
"However, it's an opportunity to work -it's not a guarantee of money," Russo said. "If you don't work. you don't get paid." 
This means that students who are given the opportunity to work in their financial aid off'ers must seek out employment themselves when they get to campus, but Russo said that stu­
see AID/page 6 


Dillon summer-long remodeling underway 
power-washing the exterior of the building, Dillon rector Father Paul Doyle said. 
"This is loud work. Tho men have been very under­standing. I tried to givn tho men an explanation before eaeh step of this process," Doyle said. "As of tonight or tomorrow night they will have pownr-washed all or Dillon llall nxcnpt tlw court­yard facing Alumni. Noisn is over with for the men of 
see DILLON/page 8 

College offers Iraq support 
•

services 
By COLLEEN KIELTY NcwsWritrr 

While tlwir family, f'rinnds and loved ones are serving in Iraq. members of the Saint Mary's community join tognthnr to olli~r support to OlW anot.lwr narh week in a group for st.udnnt.s who have loved onns in the mili­tary. 
The support group is eo-spon­sored by Saint Mary's Counsding and Carenr I>nvnlopmont and Campus Ministry, and it provides students with a plaen to como to sham stories and have conversa­tions with thosn experiencing similar situations. 
Thn need for such a group was brought to tho attention of' Campus Ministry and Counseling and Carner Devnlopment by stu­denL<; and !'acuity. Both thn spon­sors of' tho group and f'aculty members knew of' students who have a loved one serving in t.hn military. 
For some students, it is a fami­ly member. Othnrs know friends from home who are serving in the armed fiu·ces. 
"We've all had a few studnnts 

who have f'rinnds or family serv­ing in difliwnnt. capacities," said .Judy Fean, director of' Campus Ministry. 
Thn group bngan nwnting on Mard1 15 and cont.imws to mont. every Tuesday at 4::lo p.m. in tlw Campus Ministry room in tlw 1ww Student Cnntnr at Saint Mary's Collngn. 
"While our numbers haw hnnn low, the responses wn havn rncnivt'd arn appn~dativn," said 
Gina  Christiana  of'  ThP  
Counsnling  and  CarPnr  
Dnwlopnwnt Cnntnr·.  

Thn group has rnc.nivnd ~~­mails from students studying 
see SUPPORT/pagc6 


By KATE ANTONACCI Associate News Ediror 

Dillon llall began a makeovor on M<trch 3, a proeoss that will take through tho summer to eom­plet.o, but will leave the mnn's dorm with new win­dows, updated bathrooms and a laundry room. 
For the past few weeks, crews havn been pulling out loose mortar between the bricks and stones, while also 
I 
I 
j 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Do111e letdown 

Acting on emotion rarely results in a positive outcome. Since the adminis­tration's letter reiterating the regilding and repairs to the Dome wouldn't halt for graduation, emotions have run high for a number of seniors, includ­ing myself. 
Letting it sink in during the past week, I've come to what bothers me the most with the scaffolding that will continue to surround the University's land­mark on arguably our most impor­tant day at Notre Dame. 
It has to deal with disappointment stemming from the way this situation has been han­dled by the administration. 
My problem goes further than sneak­ing the beginning of this project past students who were on spring break when the last thing on our mind was Notre Dame. 
My disappointment comes from the administration not showing it's doing everything possible to put the seniors first. 
I refuse to drink the Kool-Aid being handed out by the administration insisting the schedule for this project can't be changed. I understand the repairs and regilding need to be done, that's indisputable. 
But why can't the schedule be changed? 
Tell the senior class the project's cost increases too much if overtime or working on weekends are unrealistic, making finances the major issue. Provide a detailed schedule showing why six months are necessary if the South Bend weather dictates each and every day. Explain how having a gold­en Dome is more important for that Michigan State game on Sept. 17 or University President-elect Father John Jenkins' inauguration rather than graduation weekend, if that is the case. 
Nothing on campus can be built taller than the Dome. Driving on the Indiana Toll Road, the Dome provides goose bumps as it sticks out above the trees. It symbolizes Notre Dame. On graduation weekend, what else would one want as a picture background? 
That's why this is an issue that won't, and shouldn't, go away. Not only do the seniors deserve some sort of answer, but so do our parents. 
Parents who are sending their first and possibly only child through Notre Dame. Parents who are making their second trip to South Bend when drop­ping their son or daughter off for Freshman Orientation was the first. Parents who are making their umpteenth trip to campus after getting their own degree and attending numerous football games. 
All of these issues need to be addressed, and people who deserve these answers haven't received any­thing specific from the University. 
Ultimately, seniors don't have to agree with the final decision or rea­soning, just give us something we can respect. 
That's all I'm asking for-some­thing believable, credible and legiti­mate. 
Come graduation weekend, instead of taking pictures with my family with the Dome as a background, I'm going to have to face it. 
Smiling for those pictures might be a little difficult. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd. edu 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How ARE YOU ENJOYING THE WARM WEATHER? 



Christian Brown John Mulvahill Matt Schulte Rebecca Jakubisin Teresa Kolf Thomas Thuruthiyil 



sophomore  employee  
McGlinn  South Dining Hall  
Tm walking  "Jogging and  

slower to class." running around 
sophomore O'Neill  freshman Carroll  senior Dillon  freshman LeMans  
"Getting ready for the bookstore tournament."  "Running around barefoot. ''  "Starting up spring practice for Walsh football."  "!prayed the rosary while laying out."  

campus. I like the green leaves on the trees. ,, 
IN BRIEF 

The Notre Dame softball team will face off against Valparaiso in a double header today at 4 
p.m. and 8 at Ivy Field. 

The fourth annual girl's McDonald's All American high school basketball game will take place tonight at 5 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research Dean Baker will speak tonight in a lecture titled "Social Security: The Phony Crisis." It will begin at 7 p.m. in 126 DeBartolo Hall. 
Philip Sakimoto, former act­ing director of NASA's Space and Science Education and Public Outreach program, will give a lecture entitled "The Universe and Everything In It" tonight at 8 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo Hall. The talk is sponsored by the department of physics. 
David Solomon, director of the Center for Ethics and Culture, will give a talk entitled "Legal Mercy Killings of People with Disabilities" as part of Theology on Tap. It is spon­sored by Campus Ministry and will begin at 10 p.m. in Legends. 
There will be a conference Thursday entitled "Contemporary Catholicism, Religious Pluralism, and Democracy in ·Latin America: Challenges, Responses, and Impact" in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, begin­ning at 8:45 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

44 31 


52 38 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 
Members of Navy ROTC presented the colors at the Notre Dame baseball game Tuesday at Eck Stadium. The Irish defeated Western Michigan 9-5. 
OFFBEAT 
Cocaine stash discovered in minivan gas tank 
.SLIDELL, La. -A reliable family car suddenly devel­oped a tendency to deceler­ate, leading to the discovery that it had been driven for years with $40,000 worth of cocaine stashed in the gas tank. 
A suburban New Orleans family had bought the 1996 Toyota Camry from a used car lot in 1997. 
"They hadn't had any major mechanical difficul­ties with it until last week," the sheriff's spokesman James Hartman said Tuesday. 
When the car started los-
TODAY 
a:: 

ing speed, it was taken to a mechanic, who discovered two bricks of cocaine wrapped around the vehi­cle's fuel line. The wrapping had apparently come loose recently. 
Legally blind man hits hole­in-one 
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa ­A man who is legally blind has heard it before, so he was naturally skeptical when he was told he scored a hole-in-one while golfing at a local golf course. "They've said it before," said Joel Ludvicek, 78. 
Only this time it was true. 
Ludvicek aced the 168­yard No. 11 hole at Twin Pines golf course with a driver. 
He had to rely on his three golfing partners to confirm the feat, because Ludvicek is legally blind. 
"A big fluke, it's just one of those things," Ludvicek said. 
He has been an avid golfer for years and this is his sec­ond hole-in-one. It's his first since he lost most of his vision because of macular degeneration. 
He said his vision is hazy and he can't see things he's directly looking at. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
1.&.1 
:I: 
!;;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
....I
cr: 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 71
...I LOW 44 

45 35 


54 41 

41 30 

Wednesday, March 30, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Progressive Student Alliance enjoys success of agreelllent 
Taco Bell Corp. to pay penny-per-pound surcharges, raise fann labor standards, ending three-year-long" boycott ... 
By KATIE PERRY Nt•wsWrit<'f 
Actions takPn last spring by t h n I' r o g n~ s s i v o Stud n n t !\ II i an co ( P S !\ I r ~~a 1: hn d a largo-scalo lnvl'l narlinr this month wlwn Taro Bnll prn­snntnd a largn labor organi­zation with groundbrnaking plans to rnl'orm tho ~:onditions and pay of its worknrs. 
!\ Marr.h H agrnnmnnt bntwnnn Ta.co Boll, Corp., a division of Yum! Brands, and tlw Florida-basnd Coalition of lmm o k a I~~ n Wo r k n r s (C I W ) provnd sur.r.nssful as thP Mnxir.an fast-food pownr­ho u s n s1~ r v tHI u p a n o r d n r dPPmnd sul'f'ieinnt by tho labor at:tivist group. 
Tho CIW oiTidally nndnd its t h r n n -y Par boyr. ott of Ta1: o BPII, assPrting tlw dna! "sots a nnw standard of social rnsponsibility for tho fast­food industry." Taro Btdl has agnwd to pay a pnnny-pnr­pound surehargn to worknrs and "raisn farm labor stan­dards" by adding nnw t:lausns to thn company Codn of Conduct and strit:tly adhnring to t'UrTnnt. laws. 
Tlw dnnount'.l'mPnt originat­or! from allngtHI unfair stan­dards in labor and wagos for migrant workPrs who har­VPst.nd tomatoos for tho rnstaurant's Florida supplier. 
Last April. mombnrs of thn Progrnssivn Studnnt i\llianen 
rallind against Taco Boll and its marketing relationship with tlw Notrn Damn athletic dnpartmnnt through a series of hungnr strikes, organiznd protests and correspondenee with administrative oiTieials. 
Notrn Dame then plaeed pressure on Taeo Bell and askod tlw company to refute thn claims with specific:, unequivocal evi­
fight to "boot tho Bnll." The sum total not only raised awareness but also eon­tributnd by bringing about oconomie consPqutmees nec­ossary for social change, Lachiondo said. 
i\s a Notre Dame student, Laehiondo has hold strong connections to the concerns of the CIW through her mem­
bership in the 
dnnen. After fail­PSi\ and her role
"We want

ing to promptly as coordinator of rnenive adequate [University the Migrant answers to its Experiences
officials/ to know 

inquiries, the seminar through
how important our

Univnrsity post­tho Center for poned and later campaign was in Social Concerns. terminated its "I have had the
the larger 

$50,000 promo­honor to person­
movement.,,

tional eontraet ally meet many with loeal Taco of the farm 
Bell restaurants.  Melody Gonzalez  workers,  see  
PSi\  member  PSA member  their living and  
i\lieia Lachiondo  working  condi­ 
said the actions  tions  and  hoar  

taken by Notre Dame students first hand their account of the last spring "absolutely" struggle," Lachiondo said. "In played a significant role in fact, quite a few of the stu­the eventual agreement dents who have worked on between Taco Bell and the tho boycott for the past four CIW. years have either boen on the 
"Anytime you have a high­seminar or met members of profile institution like this the CIW. So we felt that this University make a sweeping was a personal issue for us." move of this nature, it brings Lachiondo said that tho eausn to tho forefront and although the PSA has not forces other institutions to made any formal response to reevaluate their al'filiations," tho agreement between Taco Laehiondo said. Bell and the CIW, the overall 
i\c:cording to the CIW Web reaction from members has site, almost 30 aeadernic been one of "celebration." institutions had joined in the · Even after Notre Dame ended 
its contract with thn restau­rant chain, PSi\ membors continued to protest at local Taco Boll establishmnnts and circulate letters to top of'l'i­eials at Yum! Brands. 
"It's an amazing feeling to be a part of something so large like this boycott and to see tho group achieve this level of unprecedented suc­cess," Lachiondo said. 
The PSi\ plans to meet with University administers this week to express its gratitude toward Notre Dame for listen­ing to its concerns and taking subsequent action. 
"We want them to know how important 

and other dnmonst.rat.ions art"' donn in solidarity with thl' CIW, both groups t:an rnvl'l in 
thn groundbrnaking aer.om­plishment. Similarly, tho CIW -and by oxtnnsion tlw PSi\ -is still not content in tlw working conditions of .otlwr such companins. 
"This is just a hattlt~ in tlw war for fair wages and work­ing conditions," l.achiondo said. "It's time for othnr cor­porations to follow thl' imprnssive example finally put forth by Taco Boll." 
Tho PSi\ will "eontinuP to support the CIW in its causes" because of its strong boliPI' in 
the group's fun­

our campaign was in the larger  · "This is just a  damental mis­sion, l.achiondo  
movement  that  battle in the war  said.  By  using  
ultimately pres­sured Taco Bell to do the right  for fair wages and working  their purchasing powor as a mnt.aphorieal  
thing,"  PSA  conditions."  vote, PSi\  mnm­ 
~ember  Mr:lody  bnrs will strive  
Gonzalez said. Gonzalez played an active  Alicia Lachlondo PSA member  to voico corH'Prns to other t:ompa­n ins through  
role in the  move  economic nwans.  
to  terminate  "It is our lwlinl'  

Notre Dame's relationship that someone rwPds to takn with Taco Bell by mobilizing responsibility for the condi­student support and contact­tions throughout thn food ing members of the press. On supply dwin; if tlw corpora­
11. la.rger scale, she served as tions won't do it, wo will a translator in Louisville through thn pownr of our pur­when the final agreement was chasing ehoices," Lachiondo reached between Taco Bell said. and the CIW. 
Because PSA-lod actions Contact Katie Perry at like protests, hunger strikes kperry5@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
DoIDe 
continued from pagel 

.. intended to pursue measures
' 
to halt or delay the process until after graduation. 
Last Wednesday, Scott, along with student body president Adam Istvan and third year law student Adam Russ, met with Affleck-Graves and pre­sented what Scott referred to as a "hypothetical contract" that would allow for the Dome to be temporarily uncovered for graduation. 
Their plan called for the re­gilding to continue through the month of April. Then, one week before graduation the scaffolding would be taken down, allowing the Dome to be visible for commencement. The following day, the scaf­folding could be rebuilt, and the process would continue on as planned. 
After speaking with contrac­tors, Scott .estimated that his proposal would add two weeks to the re-gilding process but would still allow for the proj­ect to be completed by the mandatory deadline of Oct. 1, 
when frost will become a fac­tor. 
"Mr. Affleck-Graves was sin­cere and committed to making an arrangement. I was opti­mistic going to bed Wednesday night that our compromise was feasible," Scott said. 
Affleck-Graves said he was impressed with Sco~t. Istvan and Russ's enthusiasm. 
"Darrell had a really good idea, I thought. We wanted to do anything we could to make the best out of the situation," Affleck-Graves said. 
But to the disappointment of Scott and the rest of the senior class, th·e proposal was not approved after Affleck-Graves sent it to Conrad Schmitt Studios and learned that the process of taking down and rebuilding the scaffolding would push the completion date beyond the deadline of Oct. 1. 
"The contractors told me it was not possible," Affleck­Graves said. 
This will be the 11th time the dome has been re-gilded -17 years since the last touch-up. 
"If you look at the Dome from the front, it looks fine. But if you look at the back of Mary, you c·an see it is in need," Affleck-Graves said. 
As a result, this year's 
process will be especially long. Instead of painting over the old paint, the workers are going to strip the dome of all the previous layers and apply a brand new coat. Also, struc­tural work will be done to maintain the integrity of the inside of the building, Affleck­Graves said. 
"Now we have to strip 12 layers of paint. We have to prime and re-paint, and that is what takes time. It is going to be stripped down to the bare metal," Affleck-Graves said. 
But knowing the logistics of the procedure does little for Joe Tan, whose aunt and uncle will be taking a 24-hour flight from Singapore to see Notre Dame for the first time. 
"Of all the time to be re-gild­ing, why before graduation? It's disappointing that some­thing like this would take place, to my aunt and uncle who are looking forward to seeing campus," Tan said. 
Affleck-Graves said he understands how the students. and parents are feeling, since 

graduates under­this campus. If neath it. "It's disappointing our own class 
"Graduation is that something like president can't 
not about the sit down and talk
this would take 

physical dome. and have some­
place.,,

You don't remem­thing come of it, ber standing in then certainly a front of it getting common student
Joe Tan 

your picture won't be able to,"
senior

taken. It's about senior Sarah 
It will feel less constricting at a great job. 
,. 
FORTUNE. 

100 BEST 

COMPANIESg
TO WORK FOR~ 

At Ernst & Young, the opportunity for growth is enormous. We offer over 7,000 professional development programs-some of the best formal learning programs in the country -because our philosophy is People First. We recognize that our employees are essential to the firm's growth and success. And in order to attract the best talent, we've built an environment that Fortune® magazine has consistently recognized as one of the "100 Best , Companies To Work For." So whether you're looking for a place to grow or a great place to work, look for our recruiters on campus. ey.comjusjcareers 
gious and educational founda­put forth, such as a new loca­tion for them. Hopefully that is. tion for professional photos or more important to them than special access to places like buildings," the stadium press Affleck-Graves box or the 14th
"We care
said. floor of the 
Affleck-Graves more about library. promised that he undergraduates "If seniors have will do all he can suggestions, we
than anybody 
to make up for will entertain
else.,,
the eyesore of a everything. We scaffold-covered want the stu­golden dome. dents' initiative
John Affleck-Graves 
Affleck-Graves and suggestions,"
Executive Vice 
and other mem­Affleck-Graves 
President
bers of the said. "But I know administration the seniors are have begun paying a price, exploring other possibilities to and we can never fully com­keep graduation special for pensate." this year's class. Affleck­Graves said he would consider Contact Mary Kate Malone at any suggestions the students mmalone3@nd.edu 
he has had two· children grad­uate from the University. But he also knows that the best memories of graduation are not about the dome itself, but the spirit of the 
change the re-gilding plans shows a lack of respect for its students. 
"This is just another exam­ple that students really do not have a voice at 
. the proud parents and being part of mass. There could be no dome and it would be a fabulous time," Affleck­Graves said. 
Many students have insisted that the University's refusal to Bates said. 
Yet Affleck-Graves insisted that undergraduates are his top priority. 
"We care more about under­graduates than anybody else. We care about creating a reli-


. 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 30, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TI..·IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Akayev promises resis;lnation 
BISIIKI·:K. Kyrgyzstan-OustncT Prnsidnnt Askar Akaynv surfaced in Hussia al'tor flen­ing this Cnnlral Asian nation and said TtJPsday lw would n~sign if givnn legal pro­tnctions -tlw first sign he is willing to yield pownr. 
Akaynv, who f'lnd aflPr prol.llslnrs SlliZlld govPrnmnnt lwadquartnrs last WlHlk, also arrusnd his fons of plotting his ovnrlhrow for months. lnlPrim llladm· Kurmanbnk Bakiynv said llw storming of tlw govmnnwnt head­quartPrs was nnvPr plannod, and lw called for an ol'licial inquiry. 
In an inlnrvinw with Bussia's slate-run Chanrwl Onn tniPvision. Akaynv nmphasiznd hn is Kyrgyzstan's legitimate lnadm· and sug­gllStPd lw would knPp a hand in its fragile politics. 
AskPd wlwtlwr he was prnparnd to stop down. Akaynv rnplind: "Of' course. of' 1:ourse 
il' I am giVPn llu• rPinvanl guarantnllS and il' it is in full arrordannl with tlw rurrnnt lng­islation." 
Pope may rely on feeding tube 
VATICAN CITY -Popn .John Paul II may havn to rl'lurn to tlw hospital to havn a fend­ing tuiJl' insPrted bnqusn hn is having clil'li­nrlty swallowing, an Italian nnws agency rnporln<l Tunsday. 
Till' APcom rwws agnrwy said no dndsion had bPPn laknn and tlw fneding tube was one option lll'ing considnnld to help thn R4-ynar­old popn gPl lwtlnr nutrition and rngain his slrnnglh. 
Calls to the Vatican spoknsman wnnl unan­swmnd latn '1\wsday. 
Citing an unidenlifiPd source, tho agnney said thn popn 's doctors wnre considering the procndun•. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Report: aviation never safer 
WASIIIN<;TON -Tlw numbnr of civil avia­tion acdd!Hils in the United States fell by R tWrClHlt last ynar. aceording to pmliminary sta­lislil:s rnlnasnd TLJPsday. 
Thn National Transportation Safety Board rnportnd that dvil aviation accidents declined from UHA in 2003 to 1,715 last year. There wern also I) pnrn~nl fnwnr deaths in 2004 ­(135, down from 695 thn year before. 
"Tiwrn is a singln strong common thread among sal'nty that's woven among every aspect of aviation, from the dosign of the aircraft through the systnms on hoard to tho training tlw pilots receive," said Federal Aviation Administration spoknsman Creg Martin. "The payofl' is the safest thmn ynars in aviation his­tory." 
Most aviation f'ataliti1~s n~sulted from acei­dmlts involving private planes and on-dmnand air taxis. hut lhn ovnrall acddent ratn for both kinds of aircraft has been improving over the past few dm:ades. 

Title IX protects whistleblowers 
WASIIINCTON -A closely divided SupriHne Court ruled Tuesday that a tnacher or eoaeh who daims sexual discrimination on bnhalf of others is protected from firing undnr thn same landmark law that greatly expanded athletk opporlunitins for women. 
Tho 5-4 dedsion expands the seope of the Tilln IX gendnr equity law to protect whistleblowers as wnll as direet vietims. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Senate takes stand on alcohol 
INDIANAPOLIS -Tlw Indiana Snnate approvPd a bill Tuesday that would hold drivers responsible for open eontainnrs of all'ohol found in thn their vnhidns, but the hill's l'alll depends on how recnplive the Ilouse is to ehangn. 
!louse lawrnaknrs have bonn mluctant to tiru~ drivPrs for opPn containers. Tlwy passed a bill narlillr this ynar that would havn lined passllngnrs, not drivers, $25 for opnn con­tainers of al!:ohol in a ear. 
Opporwnls of' that bill say it isn't tough enough. 


Politician's prayers lift spirits 
Rev. Jesse Jackson visits Terri Schiavo's parents on day 12 without food, water 
Associated Press 
PINELLAS PAHK, Fla. ­As Terri Schiavo entnred hnr 12th full day without food or watnr. the Hnv. Jesse Jackson praynd with lwr paronts Tuosday and joined eonservativns in calling for state lawmak­ors to order hor feeding tubP reins11rtnd. 
The formnr Democratic prnsidnntial eandidaln was invitod by Schiavo's par11nts to mnnt with activists outside Schiavo's hospice. llis arrival was gnwtml by some applause and erios of "This is about civil rights!" 
"I f'nel so passionate about this injustice being dorw. how unnecessary it is to deny her a fending lube, water, not oven ieo to be usnd for her parehod lips," he said. "This is a moral issue and it transcends polities and family disputes." 
Jaekson's visit providod an nmotional boost to Schiavo's parents and sib­lings, who have main­tained that Sehiavo would want to be kept alive. llor husband. Miehael Sehiavo, insists ho is car­rying out her wishes by having thn feeding tube pull11d. 
"I wanted the Hevnrend Jaekson hero for moral support," said Mary Schindler, Terri Schiavo's mother. "I feel good with him here. Vnry strong. llo gives me strength." 
Jackson said he asked Michael Schiavo for per­mission to seo thn brain­damaged woman but was denied. George Felos, Miehael Schiavo's attor­ney, did not return phone messages seeking com­mont. 
.Jackson also telephoned black legislators in a last­ditch effort to bring back a bill that would prohibit sevorely brain-damaged patients from being denied food and water if they didn't oxpress their wishes in writing. Lawmakers rejeetp,d the legislation earlier this month and appp,ared 

unlikely to reconsider it. 
One of those eontactnd by .Jackson. Democratic state Sen. Gary Siplin, said he told .Jackson the issue had been "thorough­ly discussed." Senate Democratic leader Los Miller added, "I have voted. It's time to move 
on." 
The chief sponsor of the measure, state Sen. Daniel Webster, said he knew of no changed votes and that Jackson's efforts may have come too late. 
"If he could sway votes -and I'm certain he may be able to -it would have been helpful if' he had done that a little ear­lier" said Webster, a Hepublican. "We're run­ning out of time. To do it now is not as timely as a couple of' weeks ago would have been." 
Bob Schindler described his daughter as "failing" following his visit Tuesday. 
"She still looks pretty darn good undor tho cir­eumstanees," Schindler said. "You ean sen the impact of no food and water for 12 days. Ilnr bodily functions are still working. We still have hnr." 
During .Jackson's visit, a man was tackled to the ground by offieers when he tried to storm into the hospice, police said. Ile became the 47th protestor arrested since the feeding tube was removed March 1R. The man had two bot-tins of water with him but did not rn1u:h thn hospiee door, police said. 

Doctors have said Tnrri Schiavo, 41, would proba­bly die within a wnek or t w0 0 r t he t u be lw i n g removed. She suffered catastrophic brain dam­age in 11JIJO when her heart stopped for snveral minutos bneause of a chnm ical i m balancll apparently brought on by an eating disorder. 
The parents also lost another round in the courts Tuesday when an appeals court uphnld a pervious ruling by .Judge George Grenr that blockod the Departmonl of Childron and Families from intervnning in the case. 
Human fetus stolen from exhibit 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Two women stole a prosorved 13-wcek-old fetus from an acclaimod exhibit at the California Seienee Conter, authori­ties said Tuesday. 
Tho fotus, its tissues infused with polymers in a process called plasH­nation to prevent deeay indefinitely. was part or a traveling display. "Body Worlds 2: Thn Anatomical Exhibition of Heal !Iuman Bodies." 
A surveillance camnra captured the women removing the fetus from an unlocked display ease on tho third lloor oarly Saturday during the 
round-the-dock closing weekend of the exhibit, police Dnteetivn .Jimmy Render said. 
Othor people were inside the room at the time but they may not havn been aware of the thoft, he said. 
"There's no indication at this time or the motives behind the stealing of the plastinated fetus," Hender said. "Thoro had been no threats." 
The theft was the first ever involv­ing "Body Worlds" displays, whieh have been seen by millions of pnoplo worldwide. 
"We are deeply eoneernnd and disappointed by tho thef't of' this invaluable and irreplaceabln sped-
men," Angelina Whallny, diredor of thn lnstitutn for Plastination, said in a statnment. 
"Although it is a trag~~dy that the fetus nover made it to life, it is a tllaehing treasurn and educational tool which we prnserved !'or the benefit of publie knowl11dgo," slw said. 
"Body Worlds 2" and its pn,deces­sor, "Body Worlds," us11 plaslinated human bodies and organs to providP information on human anatomy. ill­nosses and issues such as smoking and obesity. Thn displays, f11aturing bodies in natural poses, have drawn eritir.al and public praise. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
Jobs 
continued from page 1 
tant to the alumni newslet­ter editor and works on edit­ing and mailings. 
Kealy said her office job pays $6.50 an hour, but she also receives income from being an Academic Services tutor and note-taker for the Office for Students with Disabilities. 
Yates said that a position like Kealy's in the Alumni Association is coveted. 
"Students would like to work in an office-type set­ting," Yates said. "There's a lot of competition for those jobs. The thought of working in a dining hall is irksome, especially for freshmen." 
While he does not have an office job, freshman Brogan Hyan said working at Subway is a good experi­ence. 
what limiting the variety of jobs available for the 40 per­cent of undergraduate stu­dents employed by the University. Students must make an effort to get the available jobs -whether they are ideal positions or not. 
"There are no perks for working in the dining hall beyond getting paid," said freshman Zach El-Sawaf, a Food Services employee at South Dining Hall. Food Services jobs typically begin pay with an unskilled wage of $6.45 an hour. 
El-Sawaf is one of the 602 freshmen with jobs on cam­pus. There is typically an increase of about 300 University payroll job recipi­ents, usually about 600 to 900, from freshman to sopho­more year, Yates said. Seniors constitute the highest number of students employed by class. 
"Freshmen are trying to 
adjust, and 
working is just 
"I would say "Students would not an option that Subway is not for some,"
like to work in an
the best job on Yates said. 
office-type setting." 
campus, but if you She said that work with the as time goes right people, it can Joyce Yates by, students be fun," he said. become more
student employment 
"The perk · of organized,
coordinator
working at Subway is the free sub at the end of the shift." 
Hvan also said the on-cam­pus location was an added advantage to his job, despite his comparatively low earn­ings. 
"I think !the wage rate for University payroll jobs] is pretty fair, for working on campus," he said. "There is no doubt I could be making more money off campus, but that wouldn't work." 
Currently, there are 3,611 students on the University payroll. Yates estimates about half of all these students work for Food Services. Academic Services is the second largest employer, providing about 500 jobs. 
However, not many busi­nesses are allowed onto Notre Dame's closed campus, some-begin seeking 
work experi­
ence and are generally more available as course loads lessen and as requirements are fulfilled. 
Students who love their jobs tend to remain in their posi­tions throughout their years on campus. 
''I'd definitely say I have one of the best jobs on campus," junior and Writing Center tutor Curtis Leighton said. 
"Flexible hours, human interaction and good pay" are all positives for working at the Writing Center, he said. Tutors start at the skilled rate of $7.35 an hour. 
Leighton has worked at the Writing Center for two years and will continue working there until he graduates. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 
Aid 
continued from page 1 

dents could jump start the search before the semester by using the online Job Board and contacting prospective employers. 
Russo made the distinction between federal work-study, a federal student aid program, and work-study, a term used loosely to describe working on campus that "may or may not be a federal work-study job." 
"Whether you're work-study eli­gible or not, as opposed to just eli­gible to work, the federal govern­ment regulates," Russo said. "It's our role at the University to deter­mine that eligibility." 
Russo said that this evaluation 
Support 
continued from page 1 

abroad saying that although they cannot participate, they think that this is a great offering to the student body, especially those with loved ones serving in Iraq, she said. 
of work -study eligibility was made annually due to changes in uni­versity eosts, the family's finaneial eireumstanees and the federal government's eligibility criteria. 
A student who is not eligible for federal work-study funds is not impacted in terms of pay rate, opportunities or work hours, Husso said.. 
Although work-study is a feder­al program, Russo said that 100 percent of student paychecks come from Notre Dame.· 
"We can get part of that funding back from federal work-study funds," Russo said. "We count on those to fund student employ­ment." 
Russo said that if a student were not eligible to receive federal work-study funds, Notre Dame would pay the necessary amount 
The goal of the group is to offer a warm, welcoming, safe and confidential environment, the directors said. By offering a sym­pathetic and confidential commu­nity, the group leaders hope that students will feel more comfort­able eoming to the group each Tuesday. 
The conversation and ideas dis­cussed each week are contingent to meet 100 percent of the stu­dent's demonstrated need. 
Stressing precaution with the statistics, Husso said that although $23,000 is the average offer, finaneial aid ranges from $50 to full cost and includes loans, feder­al grants, athletic aid and outside scholarships from organizations such as the Hotary Club. 
Russo also said that the average amount of money made by under­graduates, regardless of financial aid status, is $1,000. However, this number is the average of a wide range of possibilities, for example, students who work for a lew weeks and quit and students who work 20 hours a week, he said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

on the needs of the students who attend. The group is designed for support and will work with the needs of the indiv.iduals. 
"It is an opportunity to know that this is part of their story here as students, and they are not alone," Fean said. 
Contact Colleen IGelty at ckieltO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Get tapped in at Legends. Doors open at 9:30prn Speakers start at /O:OOpm 
CM
*Can't make it? vVe'/1 be back on Apr. 6th. 
Campus M1 


THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,405.70 -79.95
}ones ,. 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume. 1,061 136 ·~ 2,225,616,160 
AMEX I ,436.63 -4.7R NASDAQ I ,973.88 -18.64 NYSE 7,070.53 -60.99 S&PSOO 1,165.36 -8.92 NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,596.65 -3.17 fTSE IOO(London) 4,919.00 -3.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDA.Q IOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  -0.80  -0.29  36.05  
SUN MICROSYS INC (SUNW)  -1.16  -0.28  23.92  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.64  -0.15  23.15  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -0.78  -0.14  17.75  
INTEL CP (INTC)  + 1.49  +0.06  4.09  


30-YEAR BOND  -0.53  -0.26  48.52  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.71  -0.33  45.91  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.86  -0.37  42.86  
3-MONTH BILL  0.00  0.00  27.72  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.18  54.23  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  0.00  428.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +2.50  97.65  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I 07.55  
EURO  0. 7735  
POUND  0.5332  
CANADIAN$  1.2103  



IN BRIEF 
Verizon raises bid on, wins MCI 
NI~W YOHK-Vnrizon has won thn bidding for MCI lne. a sneond timn, agrnning to pay $1 billion mom for tho long-distanen tnln­phonn company, and yot still eonsidnrably loss than a rival bid from <)west. 
lnvnstors don't snnm eonvineed ()wnst Communications lntnrnational lne. will admit dnfnat, hownvnr. MCI's stoek shot highnr aftnr the $7.64 billion dna! was announeiHI, surpassing the $23.50 priee pnr sharn Vnrizon Communications lne. has agrnnd to pay. 
The nnw agnwmnnt increases thn amount of ~~ash MCJ stockholders will receive for their sharos while guaranteeing a minim urn valuo for tho Vorizon sharns that they'll got as tlw balance of tho payment. 
Qwnst, tho smallost of the nation's four big IIH~al phono companies, said it will reassoss tho situation, but rnitorated its position that its oiTnr of $X.45 billion, or $26 per share, is superior. 
Court debates cable monopoly 
WASHINGTON -Tho Supremo· Court on Tuesday questiorwd the tight eontrol cable eompanins hold ovor high-spoed Internet scrv­iee in a ease that will dotermine whether the industry must open up its lines to competitors. 
Morn than 11J million homes have cable broadband servien. The case turns on whether eahh~ lntornet aeeoss is an information service as the industry and the Federal Communications Commission say, or has a separatn teleeomm unieations component, as Internet snrvko providnrs argue. 
A fndoral appnals court set aside an FCC rul­ing that cabin lntnrnn.t service is solely an information so rv iee. 
A lawy11r for Brand X, a Santa Monica, Calif.-hasnd Internet service provider, asked thn justices to allow competition, while tho FCC sidnd with the cable industry, which arguns that an unfavorable ruling will discour­agl~ investment and slow the spread of broad­band. 
(;ovnrnmnnt should not allow cable eompa­ni,~s to become snlf-regulating, a ·step that would turn the eoncept of opening up lines to competition "a dnad lettnr," Brand X attorney Thomas Goldstnin suggested. 
JAPAN 

Progress made in beef trade 
Japan food panel conzplies to request for relaxed testing standards on U.S. cows 
Associated Press  
TOKYO -Japan's food  
safnty panel on Monday  
reeornnwnded the govern­ 
ment stop testing cattln  
youngnr than 21 months for  
mad eow disease, a step  
toward making U.S. beef  
1~ligiblo for import after a  
1!i-month ban.  
.Iapan banned U.S.. beef in  
Dneember 2003 after the  
Unitod States found its Jirst  
mad cow ease. Tokyo, seek­ 
ing to soothe worries at  
home about a domestic  
mad cow outbreak, has  
rnfusnd to reopen its mar­ 
ket to U.S. beef products  
until Washington adopted  
blanket testing for the dis­ 
ease.  
llowover, the Pond Safnty  
Commission's scientific  
experts said resnareh has  
shown that rogue proteins  
linked to the disnase don't  
show up in tests on cattle  
youngnr than 21 months,  
and that casing thn testing  
standards wouldn't put con­ 
sumers at risk.  
"We have condudod that  
the risk of excluding cows  
younger than 21 months  
old from inspections is neg­ 
ligible or extremely small,"  
Yasuhiro Yoshikawa, who  
heads the seientilic panel,  
told reporters.  
Since diseovnring its Jirst  
ease of mad cow disease in Cattle from Darrel Sweet's Livermore, Calif., ranch are shown on Tuesday. 
2001, Japan has tested California ranchers are affected by both Japanese and U.S. mad cow restrictions.  
every cow slaughtered as  
food for the bovine illness  enough is known about the  intensified pressure on  Agrkultural Servieo.  
to reassure consumers jit­ disease, formally called  Tokyo over tho issue, with  The two sides tentatively  
tery about food safety.  bovine spongiform  some U.S. lawmakers  agrned in Oetobnr to restart  
Tokyo has found 16 animals  encephalopathy, to rule out  threatening possible sanc­ imports of U.S. beef prod­ 
with the disease, most  all risk.  tions if the ban isn't liftnd  ucts l'rom· young cows con­ 
recently a Holstein eow on  Eating beef from an  soon.  sidered less at risk for the  
Sunday.  infeeted cow .is thought to  U.S. ol'ficials called  disease, but discussions  
Monday's panel ruling  eause the fatal human vari­ Monday's development a  stalled over how to eonlirm  
marked the first time  ant Crcutzfeldt-Jakob dis­ step in the right direction,  the ago of eattln.  
.Japanese experts have  case.  but said Japanese officials  Washington then pro­ 
agreed with the assessment  During her March 19 visit  should hasten the proeess.  posed that Tokyo relax test­ 
of U.S. scientists-a key  to Tokyo, Secretary of State  "It's a very small step. But  ing standards as a first step  
step that allows Tokyo to  Condolnezza Rice pressed  we still think the Japanese  toward dropping its ban on  
begin debating standards  Japan to end the costly ban.  proeess is going far too  American beef.  
for U.S. beef imports.  Before the ban, Japan was  slow, and it's unnecessarily  For months, Japan reject­ 
However, the Japanese  American beef's most  cumbersomn. We would  ed tho proposal and insist­ 
experts didn't discuss U.S.  lucrative overseas market,  like to sne it accelerated,"  ed that thn United Statos  
beef on Monday.  estimated at $1.7 billion a  said ,J.B. Penn, undersecre­ abide by tho same testing  
But the Japanese panel  year.  tary of the Agriculture  restrictions for Japannse  
also acknowledged that not  Hecently, Washington has  Department's Foreign  beef.  

'No Late Fees' causes confusion 
price but were charged a $1.25 video or DVD beyond the seven-day
Associated Press 

restocking fcc. window. Customers who foe! they 
POHTLAND, Ore. -Blockbuster Under the settlement, Dallas-based were misled must fill out a form avail­Inc. has agreed to make refunds to Blockbuster must make refunds to able at Blockbuster storos. customers -and pay an additional customers who claim the campaign Blockbuster spokeswoman Karen $630,000 -to settle allegations the misled them into thinking they could Raskopf said that tho "no late foes" nation's biggest movie rental ehain keep the video or DVD for as long as program will continun but that signs deeeived people with its "No Late they liked. will be added to stores to bettor Fees" campaign. Also, Blockbuster agreed to pay the explain the line print. 
The agreement was announced states about $630,000 to reimburse "We think our original communica­Tuesday between Blockbuster and 4 7 them for the costs of their investiga­tions were very dear, but wo're happy states and the District of Columbia. tions into consumer complaints. to do whatever we ean to add addi­
Many customers were angry to dis­In addition, the rental ehain will tional communication to better inform cover that despite the "No Late Fees" have change its advertising to ease our customers," shn said. policy, if they were eight days late any confusion. Blockbuster launched tho no-late­with a movie or a game, they owll!~d Blockbuster spokesman Handy fees program at its 4,600 U.S. stores it; their credit card accounts were llargrove said that the eost of refund­on Jan. 1. The states that worn not automatically billed for the purchase ing the consumers is expected to be part of the settlement arn Now Jersey, priee. If they then tried to return it, small, because fewer than 4 pereent which is pursuing a separate lawsuit, they were refunded the purchase of Blockbuster customers kept the Vermont and New Hampshire. 
Wednesday, March 30, 2005 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Dillon 
continued from page 1 
Dillon." 
Once the power-washing is complete, workers will start the time-consu~ing process of putting in new mortar in where they found and removed loose mortar, Doyle said. Dillon will also be equipped with new windows over the summer, with windows sched­uled to arrive May 16. 

Alumni at the last minute, Doyle said. 
"The University learned from the experience last summer to stay well ahead of the power­washing," Doyle said. 
During the summer months, the dorm's six large bath­rooms, two on each floor, will be completely redone. 
"The plumbing is old; it works, but there are problems from time to time. New porce­lain will come in and new pipes will be put in the wall," Doyle said. "That's a major outlay. Obviously the dorm is not 
"They'll just ·"Not one student going to be used take out the cur­this summer for
has complained 
rent windows high school which are in very, about this, which is sports camps and very bad shape," a real credit such." Doyle said. A washer and
to them."
Alumni Hall dryer room will rec_eived new also be put in the windows last Father Paul Doyle basement of summer, and. Dillon rector Dillon, Doyle 
according to Doyle, it was a stretch to finish in those few months. 
"It was a photo finish getting Alumni done, so they knew they couldn't get it [Dillon] done in the window between graduation and [freshmen ori­entation]." Doyle said. "Alumni should have been done first because it's the first one you see when you come onto cam­pus." 
Doyle said that Dillon "is a significantly bigger building" and the University wanted to ensure that all of the work was done properly and finished for the fall. Last year, due to dis­coloration of window frames due to power-washing, a few windows had to be replaced on 
said. 

Though the process is a long one, Doyle said that the men of Dillon. as well as the rest of the campus community, have been under­standing. 
"Not one student has com­plained about this, which is a real credit to them. They understand where we're head­ed," Doyle said. "Maybe some people feel put out, but noth­ing has come to the [resident assistants] or me." 
Doyle has worked with the construction crews to make the whole situation more accommodating for students. For example, the crews begin work each day at around 9 a.m., as opposed to 7 a.m. as they would with other projects. 
"Workers are trying to keep the major inconveniences at a minimum," Doyle said. "They come in and ask for input from me once every 3 or 4 days." 
The largest issue with the work on Dillon thus far has been the noise caused by the power-washing. 
"There certainly has been noise during the day but I think people are just putting it up with it during the day. They know it is for a good reason because it will be really nice in the end," said Brian Hammel, assistant rector of Dillon. 
Some students have found the noise disturbing amidst attempts to study, sleep and live in the rooms. 
"They've been working on the windows for about a month now, they're like power­washing all of them to try to make them look a little better, but I haven't really noticed a difference and it's really loud and annoying, especially when they start work at like 8:30 outside my window," freshman Scott Hagan said. 
Many students, however, rec­ognize that the final product will be a positive addition to Dillon. 
"They have a lot of work to do still this summer, and Dillon definitely needs new windows, so I can appreciate it. It would be a much bigger pain if they still had to replace the win­dows when we got back next fall," freshman Tyler Elson said. "It's a bit of noise, but we could all stand to get an earlier start to our day any­way." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
IRAQ 

Nevv parlia1nent faces stor1ny beginnings 
Lawmakers. argue, fail to choose speaker 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD-They argued. They wrangled. They pulled t_he plug on the live TV feed and kicked out reporters. And some of them later walked out themselves. 
The second meeting ever of Iraq's parliament was its stormiest -as lawmakers failed Tuesday to choose a speaker in an impasse that exposed tensions among Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds. 
The turmoil in the National Assembly, two months after landmark elections, raised concerns about Iraq's efforts to build a new government. 
Some politicians argued the delay could force them to request a six-month exten­sion to the Aug. 15 deadline for drafting a permanent constitution -a vital step in organizing the next round of elections. "I think the time won't be enough. We might need an extension," said Ali al-Dabagh, a memb.er of the Shiite-led United Iraqi Alliance. 
The Sunni Arab minority -dominant under former dictator Saddam Hussein and believed to be the back­
bone of thn insurgency ­
was given until Sunday to 
come up with a candidate to 
serve as speaker of the 275­
seat parliament. 
The United Iraqi Alliance 
and the Kurdish coalition 
want a Sunni Arab to hold 
the position as a way of heal­
ing rifts with the Sunnis. 
many of whom boycotted the 
Jan. 30 elections or simply 
feared attacks at the polls. 
"We saw that things were 
confused today, so we gave 
[the Sunnis] a last chance," 
said Hussein al-Sadr, a Shiite 
cleric and member of interim 
Prime Minister Ayad /\llawi's 
coalition. "We expect the 
Sunni Arab brothers to nom­
inate their candidate. 
Otherwise, we will vote on a 
candidate on Sunday." 
More meetings were 
scheduled for this week. 
"There's a consensus tbat 
the talks should continue 
tonight and in the coming 

days so that Sunday's session will be better." Alliance ·negotiator Abdul Karim al­
Anzi said. 
Iraqis, already frustrated 
with drawri-out negotiations, 
were angered by the meet­
ing. 

NATIONAL PRISON RAPE ELIMINATION COMMISSION 
March 31, 2005 1:30 p.m.-3:30p.m. McKenna Hall Auditorium 
The Commission will discuss the problem of sexual assault in prisons. 
······-····---·······' ·-· ··-····
•....•.,.,.-...... 
.9:30 a.m. -11:30 a.m. N<Jtre Dame Journal of Legislation Symposium on the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003 Law School Courtroom 

r--------------------------------------~---~---­
Wednesday, March 30, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Cotntnission's WMD report to criticize U.S. agencies 
Associated Press 
W/\SIIINGTON -President Bush's commission on weapons of mass destruction will castigate 
U.S. intelligence agencies for their continued failure to share infor­mation aft!~r numerous reforms aimed at improving coordination, federal oflicials said Tuesday. 
One ol'licial familiar with the commission's workings, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Llu~ report also goes into great detail on why ·prc~war intelligence on Iraq's wnap<ins programs turned out to be flawed. The rnport is scheduled to be released Thursday. 
The report examines factors that might have led to errors, the ollicial said, such as whether poli­cy-makers were seeking precon­ceived conclusions, whether for­eign intelligence agencies had reached similar conclusions and whether analyst'> had little infor­mation to work with. 
The panel considered a range of 
·intelligence issues going beyond Iraq, including congressional oversight, satellite imagery and electronic snooping. Among numerous soft spots, officials familiar with the findings say "human intelligence" -the work of actual operatives on the ground -is lacking. 
In the three years since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the U.S. intelligence apparatus has been revamped. At Congress' direction, the government is establishing a new intelligence chief -a direc­tor of national intelligence -and new centers to focus on countert­errorism and counterprolifera­tion. 
Yet the nine-member panel has found that there's more to be done to improve the coordination among the 15 agencies that com­prise the intelligence community. The commission will blame enduring cultures at each agnncy for driving decisions to prevent intelligence sharing among them, according to U.S. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
A lesson learned from the report is that the information belongs to the entire government. not one agency, the ollicials said. That will require people -not just better technologies -to lind improved methods of sharing and coordination. 
The report will stress the importance of management and leadership, oflicials said, as well as a renewed emphasis on ques­tioning assumptions in intelli­gnnce analysis. Even bdore the report, intelligence analyst<> wen~ faulted for rejecting information that contradicted presumptions that Iraq had active weapons ol" mass destruction programs before the 2003 invasion. 
The report took morn than a year of work, and the Whiw I louse has taken pains to signal it is taking the panel's findings seri­ously. 
White !louse spokesman Scott McClellan said Bush would dis­cuss the report with Cabirwt members on Thursday, immedi­ately after the president meets with the full commission. 

page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 30, 2005 



Catholic schools' 
enrollment drops 
Officials look for ways to stop decline 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Enroll­ment in Roman Catholic schools dipped again this school year, continuing a trend that has seen the student population drop from 2.6 million in 2000 to 2.4 million in 2004-05, according to the National Catholic Education Association. 
The association. meeting in 
Philadelphia this week, said in a new report that national enrollment decreased 2.6 percent from the 2003-04 school year to 2004-05, as 173 schools closed or con­solidated and 37 new schools opened. 
"Sustaining [the schools] has been a struggle, but in the last four or five years it has become a very difficult struggle," 
Mic;hael J. Guerra said Tuesday. "We don't want to lose these folks. We don't want to serve only those who can afford the bill." 
Cost has been a significant fac­tor in the enrollment drop, Guerra said. A top American offi­finance an affordable, quality Catholic education for every child." 
The average cost of tuition for ninth grade at Catholic schools was $5,870 in 2003-04, a 37 per­cent increase from five years earlier, according to NCEA fig­ures. 
NCEA spokeswoman Barbara Keebler said the group does not believe fallout from the clergy 
"/ have personally observed that as Catholics have become relatively more prosperous, they have become proportionately less gen­erous. We must, must, must find ways to finance an affordable, quality Catholic education for every child. " 
John Foley archbishop 
sex abuse crj­sis of the past several years has played any_ role in the enroll­ment decline. 
W h i I e schools are being closed in Chicago, Boston, Brooklyn and St. Louis, more than one-third of the nation's 7,799 Catholic schools reported hav­ing waiting lists, the NCEA said. Schools are being opened 

in Atlarrta, Minneapolis and Austin, Texas. 
Some businesses and charita­ble organizations also are trying to help make Catholic education more affordable for low-to mod­erate-income families. 
Gregory P. Ciminera, executive 
Science doesn't trump tniracles 
ND Protestant philosopher makes intellectual room for miracles 
Associated Press 
s'OUTH BEND, Ind. -In a 
scientific era, is it still possible 
to believe in God and such 
events as the Easter miracle of 
Jesus' resurrection from the 
grave? 

Can a rational person see 
God as both all-powerful and 
benevolent despite horrendous 
suffering in disasters like the 
Asian tsunami? 

From the perspective of 
philosopher Alvin Plantinga the 
answers are emphatic: yes and 
yes. 

A Protestant professor at the University of Notre Dame, Plantinga applies modern ana­lytic philosophy to the age-old questions about God and the universe.. While he's little known outside his specialty, an assessment in Christianity. Today magazine called him not just the best Christian philoso­pher of his time ... Ibut] the most important philosopher of any stripe." 
Even atheist opponents rec­
ognize his importance. William 
Rowe of Purdue University and 
Michael Tooley of the 
University of Colorado -who 
is co-authoring a book with 
Plantinga -each consider him 
among the top two or three 
defenders of traditional belief 
in God. 

A tongue-in-cheek lexicon 
edited by skeptic Daniel 
Dennett also handed Plantinga 
a couple of backhanded com­
pliments, defining "planting" as 
"to use 20th century fertilizer 
to encourage new shoots from 
11th century ideas which 
everyone thought had gone to 
seed." Meanwhile to "alvinize" 
something is "to stimulate pro­
tracted discussion by making a bizarre claim." 
Plantinga's best work is clear but hardly popular fare; it's filled with modal logic and let­ter formulas that summarize the steps in his rigorous argu­ments. 
It may seem odd, but modern philosophy ponders how we know things like this: that other people exist with thoughts and feelings like our own; that material objects we observe are real; that the world existed more than five minutes ago; that the future will resemble the past or that we can rely upon our minds. 
Plantinga argues that com­mon sense and science know that such things are true ­and that they employ personal sympathy, memory, perception and intuition in the process. Applying complex formulas, Plantinga asserts that belief in God is equally reasonable. 
It's heavy stuff. but the philosopher tries to lighten the mood as much as he can. 
He imagines Henry Kissinger swimming across the Atlantic in one text, a p'ossible world where Raquel Welch is mousy and others where there never was a Raquel Welch. The actress, he notes, "enjoys very little greatness in those worlds in which she does not exist." 
Plantinga's Roman Catholic campus, which decades ago hired no Protestant philoso­phers, provides congenial sur­roundings for his work. Notre Dame boasts the nation's largest philosophy faculty, and scholars surveyed by Philosophica!Gourmet.coni rate it first in the English-speaking world for graduate study in the philosophy of religion. Plantinga long led its graduate center in that field. 
Chatting about faith's peren­nial puzzles, the bearded philosopher turns out to be a cheerful, plainspoken and seemingly ordinary Midwesterner. At age 72, he still takes an hour most days for a workout to keep his wiry 6-foot-2 frame in shape for his chief avocation, rock climbing. 
Back in 19 51, Plantinga was a Harvard University scholar­ship student surrounded by scoffers when one evening he experienced a "persuasion and conviction that the Lord was really there and was all I had thought." 
Shortly thereafter, he trans­ferred to Michigan's faith­affirming Calvin College, affili­ated with his lifelong denomi­nation, the Christian Reformed Church. "As good a decision as I've ever made," he says. He then did graduate work at Michigan and Yale and taught at Calvin before moving to Notre Dame in 1982. 
In his student days "every­body was predicting and giving lots of learned reasons for Christianity just dying out." 
"Christianity didn't have any future in the academy," he said, recalling what he himself felt at the time. "It seemed the thing to think." 
But now, "in philosophy, at least, Christianity is doing vast­ly better than it did 40 or 50 years ago and that's probably true in academia in general." One index: In 1978, Plantinga and five colleagues founded the Society of Christian Philosophers. Today it's an 1,100-member subgroup of the American Philosophical Association that publishes a respected quarterly. 
cial in the Vatican, Archbishop director of Business Leadership John P. Foley, told the conference Organized for Catholic Schools, that not enough Catholics who said his group has helped raised can afford to donate money to $5 million for schools in the the schools are doing so. Philadelphia region in the past 
"I have personally observed year, with most of the money that as Catholics have become going to families for tuition sub­relatively more prosperous, they sidies. have become proportionately "Because other funding is dry­less generous," Foley said. "We ing up," he said, "businesses are must, must, must find ways to going to have to step up." 
Write for news! Call Heather at 1-5323! 

THE NOTRE DAME CHAMBER PLA'l'ERS 
GEORG lNE RLSICK, SOPRl\NO Cl\ROLYN PUJM,!vHR VIOU N K.\RLN Btl RANSK·\S, CELLO [fOHN BlACKtO\V. PlANO 
l\'HH {:rw.NFliA llL\IU} '•,'l(JLIN · KAHl.RVN I'IJ MYHE. ''/101,1, · 'lU,O,•! KY-.U IC B.AS~ · 
hfWUN ·,i~HHU'iG fliJTr · uqn SHIJRT, ru.rn ·)<~orr Ki.HIIlwnt n,..,,'<!NrJ, \\'11.UAI\t ()L SiN, L LAW.I N I t 

r i "''"'~· N ·~:1·r·· 1N·(··· ("H '"'R'T·rT t')i 5(1 r<..r ._ . "-fl• [• rn ... (~··
l iu aJ · -··' l'..l ' .J . "-'~:h'" · · ' '"' , . a'... 1. t"'i (). {J r 1 . ·· r-.'l) .i 
SCfHJBIRT-PlA.NO QJJINTET. OP. 114 "TilE TROUT' RAVEL-TROIS POEMES DE STEN1ANE ,\t.\LlARAH~~ CtlAlJSSON -Cli.ANSON PLRPi:TU.H.U: 
8:00 P.M.. THlJRSDAY, .1\·\ARCU 3 l. 200.5 
LIJCHlf)N CO.NCTRl HA.lL Dll';,;,R,f(Htl CLNlEW fOR HIL PtRH)flU•11Nt> AR.i:'i 

ti ~f. J ·v *"· :i: ::1 *:r 1:· ~:?-f 
NUlRL DJ\M 
~s-~--~-~~·t;u::~--~·="f {kf 

Wednesday, March 30, 200'5 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page II 

Sex and Ivy League isn't an oxymoron 
'Chloe Does Yale' depicts confused college girl trying to balance ambition with having fun 
Associated Press heart of "Chloe DoHs Yale." The attended a Yale naked party was 160 copies selling since Krinsky plot and conlliet are almost non­enough to garner national media came to speak there in February. 
Nl·:w llt\VEN. Conn. -Thny existent. It's just a confused col­attention and an a $1 million "Most people seem to think it's soon will b11 doctors or diplo­lege 1-,rirl and her friends moving reward for evidence by Hustler pretty thinly veil11d nonfiction," mats, hut right now they're from one mini-crisis to the next. publisher l.arry rlynt. Jesska Feinstein, features editor hoppnd up on hormones and The setting is the star. "It's a combination of the inter­for the Yale Daily News, said. dwap beer and on thn prowl for "The allure is Yale," Krinsky est in these bastions of People knew from reading a temporary mate. Sex and the said in a recent Arneriean Krinsky's column what to expect Ivy l.nague. It's no dillim1nt from interview with privilege and from the book and weren't sur­sex on' any collngn campus, says The Assoeiated "It's a combination of the the taboo prised by its contents, she said. Natalie Krinsky, a 22-ynar-old Press. "Yale nature of "A lot of the shocking details­
interest in these bastions 
Yah1 University graduate whose and Harvard sex, said people are over it." rncnnt novel, "Chloe Dons Yale," and Princeton ofAmerican privilege and Elizabeth Chloe, Krinsky's alter-ego, is a invites roadnrs along for drunk­as institutions the taboo nature of sex." Ehrenberg, a sex columnist who bumbles ml hookups. naknd partins and are very much senior at through relationships with all snx toy shopping. revHred as seri­V a s s a r the panache expected of a col­
Elizabeth Ehrenberg 
Krinsky should know. As an ous centers of College, lege undergraduate. She's defi­
Vassar College student 
undergraduate. she wrote a pop­academia, where she is nitely an overachiever (she con­ular sex eolurnn for tho student­whieh they are. community soles herself with a copy of run Yale Daily News and showed But there's also relations "Anna Karenina"), but like the that 1wen thn supnr smart ean be the other side. And it's exciting director for the periodical rest of her peers, she's trying to downright elueless when it and fun to see that other side." Squirm: The Art of Campus Sex. balance that drive to succeed eomns to the opposite sex. Baring that other side is sure Krinsky's book has received with her drive to have fun. 
Sure. the SATs were a snap, to get noticed. Harvard mixed reviews, at best, from out­"I don't think they have to be hut why isn't he 1:alling you baek University drew international right slams to just OK. And as of mutually exc;lusive," said after your date? Your computer attention when its students Tuesday, the book was only Krinsky, who now lives in New algorithms are flawless, but how launched a sex magazine, II ranked 3,565 on Amazon.com. York. "You can still have a great, do you hide after a danee floor Bomb, last year. And the mere However, tho Yale Bookstore fun exciting youth. Look at our nncountnr was a bit too exeiting'! suggestion that President Bush's reported that the novel was a current and our past presi­
Tlwsn arn thn questions at the daughter, Barbara, may have strong seller on eampus, with dents." 
The Hudson Highland Center for High Performance recently cori;leted the larg;;~la~trmosf~~(i''glob~f'$tody ever doi1~;" or the factors that accelerate or stifle high pertorin'ance. The alarming conclusioniJI>nly'10 per~nt-o'f,knl)wfe.dge workers , are part of a high·parforming workgroup, one'thatmakes money for the company and is creating"a:'new product.pr s~rvice. ' 
,v ,, , < ' :\;;~ "' ~< ;=»':";!; \' , >'' •t$l ,~ l;d , \~ , ,;;}-;_kv' "', ,,... , 
Contagious Success reveals Susan Lucia Annum:io's proven strategies for Identifying, nurturing, and replicating business units that are already high performing, and argues for the opposite strategy: Focus on the groups that are doing the best work In the organization, learn their secrets, and help spread their expertise to the average groups. Annunzlo focuses 
on groups, not Individuals, because even a great individual can't succeed in a weak environment. By using the high· performing groups to Improve just the top 20 percent of the average performers-what Annunzio calls "moving the middle", a company can achieve dramatic and sustainable growth In revenue. 
'X.\1\ 

SLISAN ANNUNZIO 'l'l'V 
Chairman and CEO, Hudson Highland Center for High Performance 
TOM MENDOZA 
President, Network Appliance 
(ranked #24 In Fortune Best Companies to Work For) 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
l'or additional information, contact: Jill C,lldt·ronc ,11 631· .3277 or jcalckr2({:l}nd . .;·du 
What's the Futwre of this Reladonship? 
Please join us for an afternoon of reflection and discussion designed for dating couples who are discerning the next stage of a relationship commitment. 
What's next for our relationship after graduation? What are some challenges Involved in long distance dating? What's involved in making a healthy decisions about arelationship? 

Applications are available in 114 COleman-Morse Center or 319 Coleman ..Morse at the Reception Desk 
C-M 

Questions: call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 
Lisa Marie dishes on ex-husband Jackson 
Associated Press NEW YOHK -Lisa Marie Presley aired her "dirty laun­dry" on "Oprah." In the first of a two-part intPr­view on "The Oprah Winfrey Show" to promote her new album, Presley spoke Monday about her brief marriage to Michael Jackson, who is on trial in Santa Maria, Calif., on child molestation charges. She told Winfrey that her marriage to Jaekson, which last­ed from 1994 to 1996, was real. "Do you think that he loved you as much as he could?" the talk-show host asked. "Yes, as much as he was capa­ble of loving somebody," Prnsley replied. (They famously opened the 191)4 MTV Vidno Music Awards by exehanging a long kiss.) In a "PrimeTime Live" inlPr­view with the eouple in 1995, Presley told ABC's Diane Sawyer that anyone who questioned thnir relationship could "Eat it!" When Winfrey asked if she felt that Jackson had used her, Presley replied. "All signs point to 'yes' on that. I can't answnr for him." Prnsley, tho daughter of Elvis, claimed she was uncomfortable talking about Jackson, at one point exelairning: "This seat is hot!" The 37 -year-old singer made similar eomments about her for­mer husband while promoting her 200:~ debut album, describ­ing the relationship to Thn Assoeiated Press as morn "toxic" than her other rnlation­ships. Then, she told thn · AP: "I don't want to bash him. I don't hate him, I don't have any of that going on." 
s E S Poker Chips from $4.95/50 Te~as Holdem Tobies 
from 199.97 Poker Tables from $299.00 Rentals Available 
Large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 


50510 St. Rd. 933N • South Btnd 
574-272-1617 
-------------. 
page 12 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
Matrix reaches new­online virtual reality 
Associated Press 
You've watched the movies. Now you can jack in and play it -no cranial implants r.equired. 
After months of testing and two years since the sequels, the persistent virtual reality of "The Matrix Online" is available for 
U.S. garners. 
A brief reintroduction for those still scratching their heads after "The Matrix Revolutions": When we last saw Neo, aka The One, he made a truce with the evil machines and saved the last bastion of humanity in the underground city of Zion. 
A revised Matrix was formed after the renegade, replicating Agent Smith was defeated, and we saw the machines cart-into a hulking stone body by aliens. 
"You can't really hold every­body's attention on the same spot at the same time, so you've got to spray story at them from four different directions," he said. "I think I finally got the hang of that. There will be story happening all over the place." 
Many key characters from the films make a return, including Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) and Merovingian (Lambert Wilson). 
The movies were a dystopian vision of the future, and that certainly continues in the video game version. 
The kung fu combat and gravi­ty-defying battles take place in 
the same steel­
gray world of tow­
ing off Nco's ering skyscrapers
"You can ,t really
corpse to points and urban grit
hold everybody,s 
unknown. Did called MegaCity. he die? And attention on the It's not all drea­what about all riness, though ­
same spot at the
those people still there are plenty of 
same time, so you ,ve 
unwittingly serv­opportunities for ing as batteries got to spray story at aspiring fashion for the designers, says
them from four 
machines? lead game design­
d(fferent directions.,, 
That's just er Toby Ragaini. part of the Once you enter murky mystery Paul Chadwick the Matrix, play­in "The Mattix ers can fully cus­
writer

Online," where players can choose to ally with the Machines, the Exiles or residents of Zion for control of the new 
syst1~m. 
"Nobody is sure how long this truce will last. The theme for the first year is peace and the things people will do to screw it up," said writer Paul Chadwick, who was chosen by "Matrix" creators Larry and Andy Wachowski to keep the game's story moving forward. 
There are "red pills," humans who can freely enter the Matrix with some limits, while the remaining "blue pills" still have no idea they've been duped into living in a simulated world. 
Writing the story for such a never-ending online game where hundreds can gather at once was among the biggest chal­lenges, said Chadwick, creator of the Concrete comics in which a man's brain is transplanted tomize their char­
acters, selecting gender, hair style, body shape, tattoos and clothing. Lots and lots of clothing. 
There's gothic garb galore, with snake skin body suits, reflective sunglasses, hats ­and the trademark black trench coats. 
"One thing we can offer is a sense of cool," Chadwick said. 
Another game in the so-called "massively multiplayer" genre, "City of Heroes," takes place in a city full of superheroes, but most are sword and sorcery epics filled with dungeons and drag­ons. 
Like its competitors, "The Matrix Online" is PC only, cost­ing $50 plus a $15 monthly sub­scription fee. 
Ragaini said "The Matrix Online" should appeal to "people who are never going to be inter­ested in dwarfs and orcs. It's a contemporary urban fantasy." 
CBS's Schieffer brings new-style 
Evening news anchorman uses conversational approach to stories 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Three weeks into his new job as anchorman of the "CBS Evening News," Bob Schieffer's folksy, conver­sational approach to stories has added a new wrinkle to a format that is among the most ritualized in TV news. 
Far more than competitors Brian Williams and Peter Jennings, Schieffer engages his correspondents in on-air conversations about their sto­ries. 
"In recent years I've come to think that the best way to do a newscast is the way reporters talk to each other in the news­room,"said Schieffer, who became the interim anchor March 10 ater Dan Rather stepped down. 
There's no immediate evi­dence that the changes have paid off in the ratings for CBS, which continues to run a dis­tant third behind NBC and ABC for the evening news. 
Schieffer introduced Barry Petersen's report about the Indonesian earthquake on Monday's broadcast by saying, "These poor people. What's going to happen now? They've just been through one and now this one." 
Later, talking with reporter Mark Strassman at the vigil for Terri Schiavo, he said: "This family has been at each other for so long, do you think they'll come together for the burial service?" 
Schieffer's questions are often only of the "what's going on?" variety. But, he said, that's how people talk to one another. 
"If you're writing a story about a five-alarm fire next door, you'd say something like, 'a roaring five-alarm fire driv­en by 40 mile-per-hour winds burned its way through a building.' That's how it would read in a newspaper," he said. 
"That's fine. You're putting all the facts up where people can absorb it. If you walked into the newsroom, the first thing you'd say is, 'there's this big fire next door. Have you heard about it?"' · 
When Schiefl'er asked Byron Pitts, stationed in Baghdad, about what it felt like to be there, Pitts responded by say­ing he prayed before leaving his room each morning and prayed again when he got back safely. 
That's far more memorable than giving the day's casualty report, he said. 
There are still growing pains, since some correspon­dents are plainly more com­fortable with the ofT-the-cuff conversations than others. 
"I wanted a show that fit what he does best," executive producer Jim Murphy said of Schieffer, a courtly Texan used to cutting through rhetoric on "Face the Nation"each week. 

1357 Ironwood Drive. South Bend . IN 574-289-5080 Atriasalon.com 
University ofNotre Dame's International Study Programs 
· Summer Application Deadlines extended!* 
Earn ND credit in: 
Puebla, Mexico Dublin, Ireland Toledo, Spain 

Application deadline for Puebla, Dublin and Toledo is April 1st. Applications available at www.nd.edu/Nintlstud 


-------~--~-------·--------~"----~-~·~----------~---, 
Wednesday March 30, 200'5 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
GUEST ARTISTS 
NATALIE MacMASTER 
Friday, April 8 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 

ALTAN 
Friday, April 15 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
EMERSON STRING QUARTET 
Saturday, April 16 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 


NDPRESENTS: 
LIVE AT THE MORRIS 
OPERA VERDI EUROPA performs LA TRAVIATA 
Morris Performing Arts Center, downtown South Bend Monday, April4 at 7:30pm Prices range from $45 to $20 For this show, tickets must be purchased from the Morris: Call (574) 235-9190, (800) 537-6415, or order online at www.MorrisCenter.org 

THEATRE 
ARCADIA 
by Tom Stoppard 
Decio Mainstage Theatre 
Tuesday, April 12 through Saturday, April 23 (see website for time details) 
Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $10 seniors, $8 all students 


MUSIC 
THE NOTRE DAME CHAMBER PLAYERS 
Thursday, March 3 1 at 8 pm Leighton Concert Hall Tickets: $10, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $3 all students 
ND COLLEGIUM MUSICUM 
Friday, April 1 at 8 pm Leighton Concert Hall Free and open to the public; tickets required 


DANCE 
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY 
Presented by Southold Dance Theater 
"Decio Mainstage Theatre Tickets: $25, $19 seniors, $12 all students Friday, April 29 at 7:30pm Saturday, April 30 at 2 and 7:30 pm 

Fl LM 
BROWNING CINEMA Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students 
CAPTAINS OF APRIL 
Thursday, March 31 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies 

HOTEL RWANDA 
Friday, April 1 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 

LAWRENCE OF ARABIA 
Saturday, April 2 at 2 pm 

DIVINE INTERVENTION 
Saturday, April 2 at 7 pm and 10 pm 
TI..·IE OBSERVER 











IEWPOINT
page 14 Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Inject potency into American pro~ests
The lndepnuknt, Daily Newljlapcr Ser,ing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Datne, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumuid<.ala .SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR:. Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DFSIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINIS"(RATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent; daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institutivn. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer, 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The &ee expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must indude contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi!lhed Munday tbtough Friday et-cept during ell:am :md vacation periods. Asubscription mThe Obst!tV(!r i5 $100 fur one academic year: $55 fur one semester. 
The ObSdrvtr L~ published at: POSTMASTER P24 South Dining Hall Notre Dame. IN 465)6~0779 The Observer Periodical postagt paid at Notte Dame P.O. Bo<779 

· and additional mailin"g offices. 024 South Dining H:d! Not« Dame, IN 46SS6m79 
The Observer is. a member of the Associat~::d Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

In recent decades, protests as a form of political expression in America have become ineffectual, impotent social gatherings. The typical modern demon­stration musters crowds in a police­permitted area to lis­
Peter

ten to speeches they 
Quaranto

already agree with, sing the usual protest hymns and perhaps A Call to Action march down the side­walk -sure not to bother traffic. And for protests at Notre Dame, add or substitute a prayer vigil and a candlelight march. While these events are valuable at times in rallying activists, they have overwhelmingly become spineless, trivial vehicles for true political and social change. 
Last week, I found myself in the mid­dle of Uganda's first non-repressed opposition protest in twenty years. I have been to my share of demonstra­tions in recent years, but this one had a very different feel from the typical American rally. To begin, the hundreds of people that gathered at Constitutional Square faced the very real risk of being repressed, impris­oned and even shot by police. In recent history, the police have shot at crowds gathered to protest against the Ugandan government. 
The demonstration Thursday was organized by the Popular Resistance Against Life Presidency, a youth coali­tion of the different opposition groups here working to stop a constitutional amendment bill that will repeal presi­dential term limits. Posters at the rally read, "Time out for Dictator in Africa" and "We are fighting for a transparent; non-corrupt government, No to Third Term." One I found particularly inter­esting read, "Bush, why are you quiet?" 
The rally began with speeches at the square, followed by a march to the Parliament down the main roads of Kampala, blocking traffic for almost an hour. The hundreds marched, danced and sang in the streets, while many bystanders on the sidewalk cheered. They marched to Parliament, where they were greeted by a number of par­liamentarians from opposition parties. 
At the rally, the passion and zeal of the participants was palpable. Their very presence at the protest in such a repressiv~ political climate is a testa­ment to their willingness to sacrifice for their beliefs. One protestor told me they were not afraid of the police. One organizer of the rally whom I inter­viewed told me, "We have a program of two years to change this government democratically, but if they repress us, we will lose patience and we will be forced to storm Parliament and stage a revolution." 
Witnessing this event, I was inspired by the courage of the protestors. By taking to the streets, they were sending a clear, loud message to the political establishment that their demands could not be ignored. And those holding power and even the general public, witnessing the individual sacrifices of the action, cannot disregard such resolve. 
The difference between the typical modern American protest and those happening in poor repressive nations throughout the world is that the latter requires individual sacrifice. From Zimbabwe to Camb'odia to Burma to China, patriots are risking their own lives, daring to face the barrel of the gun as they stand for liberty, freedom and justice. This is not to praise those nations, but to praise the activists who dare to defy in such repressive cul­tures. In the United States and many other richer nations, it has become too easy to protest. Consequently, the effi­cacy of protests has become paltry. 
Throughout the history of United States, effectual protests have played a critical role, dating back to the days of the American Revolution when a few brave Bostonians dared to throw tea over a ship. That history runs through movements for women's suffrage, workers' rights, civil rights and more. In each of these movements tl).at we now celebrate, protest actions played such an important role. 
Yet today, when more than five hun­dred thousand in the United States and ten million people throughout the world took to the streets on February 15, 2003 to protest against the Iraq war, President Bush was easily able to dismiss the gatherings as a "focus group." While it is great that America has become a less repressive political atmosphere that allows protests, a major casualty has been that protests have become trivial in our times. 

Activists have failed to intelligently adapt and organize demonstrations to challenge power structures. Even more, concerned citizens have lacked the courage to take risks for their con­victions. As result, politicians and the elite have been able to act manipula­tively and coercively under the cloak of an open political space. Which is worse: an environment that allows political expression but does not take it seriously, or an environment that sim­ply suppresses political action? 
Of course, the latter is worse because people die for holding signs or wearing shirts, but the question challenges us to reevaluate the role of protests as a tool of real political action in our nation. If we are serious about changing prob­lems that exist, we have to be serious about the actions we take to challenge them and the systems that entrench them. 
This can even begin at Notre Dame, where activist groups have become far too content with prayer vigils or filling South Quad with crosses. In the late 1960s, students took over the adminis­tration building, blocked traffic and took other acts of civil disobedience for their convictions. Why can such high­risk high-sacrifice actions not happen today? They must if we are to see real change. 
'j· 

Peter Quaranta is a junior political science and international peace studies major. He writes from Kampala, Uganda, where he is studying develop­ment studies this semester at Makerere University. Read his running commen­tary from Uganda at www.peterquar­anto.blogspol.com. Contact Peter at pquarant@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Megan O'Neil Justin Schuver · Katie Laird Dan Tapetillo Lisa Schultz Ann Loughery Were you impressed with 
Submit aLetter 

"Everything has been figured out, 

Meghanne Downes Tom Dorwart 
Charlie Weis at his dorm visits? 
except how to live. " 
.. E'.d~··t t
Viewpoint Scene 

t...otb··.re; .. ····:1 or a•Becca Rosswurm Becca Saunders 
Jean-Paul Sartre 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at
Graphics Illustrator 
French novelist

Mike Harkins Graham Ebetsch www.ndsmcobserver.com 
www.Adsrncebsarver.com 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 30, 2005 page 15 
What vve did not learn fron1 Terri Schiavo 
I havo ynt to oncountor an individual who is IW!Hl partly satisliml with tho evnnts surrounding tlw last days of Torri Schiavo. Proponents and protestors, who traditionally agrne on nothing, tognthnr admit. that thnre is neither satisfadion nor dosurn in this <·.ase. ;\nd 
Lance Gallop 
whiln tlwrn is no way to 
nwasuro thn rolloetivo frus-

The Third Way
trat.ion, p1~rhaps wo 1~an como dose by rnmllnct.ing all of thn 
things wo did not Inam from tlw ·easo of Terri 
Schiavo. 

Wn did not lnarn whnthnr tho unusual actions of' Congrnss worn eonstitutional. This is not tho first timn that Congress has ernatml legislation that dnals only with a singlo individual. This hap­pons quitn f'rnqtwntly in morn trivial mattnrs (indmnnifkations, morits and eondnmnations for instanen). It is, hownvnr, tlw first time that Congress has actod to wrnnch a complotnd ease f'roJil a statP court into tho lndoral courts. This, in and of' itsnll', is a prolhund attack on Fedoralism that wont ossnntially untnstnd. Though thn failure of' t.lw att11mpt makns it unlikely that Con gross will try this mnthod again. 
WP did nollnarn what dnalh is. ;\t tlw corn of' tho Schiavo casn is a qunstion of' soul, which novor nntowd into tho public debate. 

l>nath is dillkult nnough to dolino without tho quostions of' soul and humanity entering into it. But wlwn dons tlw soul leave tho body'? For if nothing olsn is dnath, this is. If a porson is dnad, but their body is living, why do we need to have any rogard for that body at all'? A body without a soul can hardly be callnd human, except. in a n~lational s1mse. ;\nd if' we are pnople who bnliiW<1 in soul, we must say that the death of Tnrri Schiavo's body is only moral if her soul is aln•ady gone. This, in ell'oet, is what is being argund with talk of "persistent vegetative state." 
Do wn lin the soul into the Iii(~ of the body? Suppose I rnmove a single eell from your body and keep it alive, destroying the rest of you. ;\m you alive'! ;\lternatnly, if' I remove every cell from your body, kenping each alive, and scatter them over the world providing oaeh with a simulation such that it believes it is still in your body, are you alive'! ;\nd if I destroy the brain and replace it with a sophislicatnd computnr that can keep tho body alive and maintain it f'ully, are you alive now'! 
But tying tho soul into the life of the mind is not necessarily better than binding it to the life of the body. You cannot do this and be strictly anti­abortion, for example, since there arn stages whero a fetus has no mind. ;\nd what of people who have less consciousness then the rest of us'? ;\m hydrocephalic ehildron born with no souls, for they do not, in general, have much of a mind'? Indeed, I have met people who have almost no mind at all, yet I would not say they are not human, nor soulless. And anyway, if we wish to tie the soul to consciousness, we run into old problems: we cannot oven say what conscious­ness is, or whether it is thero or not. There is no legal bennlit in making an untnstabln daim. 
We also did not learn the limits of power. For many peoplA, this may b1~ the most painful aspect of the ease. There is common, but unspoken, bAlief among us that power exists for right, and that if' a wrong is bAing done, power should be exercised against it. 
We am not usnd to a wrong (and furthermore, a legal wrong) that those in authority are pownr­less to stop. People called !'or Governor Jeb Bush, for example, to stop up and seize custody over Ms. Schiavo under the notion that his power existsfor the proscrvation of the good. This is the root of tyranny, but it is also the root of political grnatness. Yet the ideal remains unfulfilled. 
We did not loarn what an activist judge is. The f'ednraljudges in the Sc~hiavo ease straynd not one inch from thn letter of tho law, yet they were still branded. Perhaps the definition of an active judge is a judge who does what a conservative pundit dislikes. 
!\!most the only thing that we did learn from this unsatisfactory a/T'air was a lesion in media sensationalism. The Schiavo case managed to swallow a school shooting whole, and God only knows what is happening in Iraq these days. It took the threat of a second tsunami to divert the attention of the cable news networks, but now that it is gone, the Schiavo ease has becomfl next to nothing. It remains collection of questions with no satisfactory answers. 
Lance Gallop is a fifth year senior majoring in computer science, philosophy and theology. He welcomes questions and comments and can be contacted at lgallop@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Alumna remember co-ed beginnings 
;\s a former Observer Campus News Editor and current subcriber and since I've got a son on campus, I really enjoyed the artiele, "Coeducation pioneers reminisce" (Man~h 17). It arrived on the same day that a group of us original gal graduates of the Class of 1973 had lunch together in down­town Chicago and were reminiscing about the same experience. 

What amazed all of us who have sons and daughtnrs on campus now, we agroed, is the way that womnn walk around campus with their lwads held high, as if they own the place, which, as students, they do. 
1\ven though a lot of folks on campus wel­eomnd us, wn also felt likn interlopers to sornn extent. Wn all distinctly remembered knnping our heads down, trying to blend in. !\nd we also all remembered having to work twien as hard in some elasses to convince the professors that wn desnrvnd the samn grad1~s llwy wero giving the guys. · In somn cases, wn had to get creative to overcome initial resistance from a few pro­fnssors. Ilands-down winner for the best story illustrating this last point went to Susan Oglesbee Paynn, a government rela­tions major and former vice president or the State Univiversity of Nnw York-Binghamton. Susan remembers taking a required sncond snmester govnrnment class on the fourth l'loor of the Administration Building. It was so eold up there, shn kept her cap and gloves on to keep warm for the first few 
days. 

When she took them off a couple of classes later and the professor saw she was a woman, he said that she couldn't stay in the class. lie had been teaching at Notre Dame for 25 years, never had a woman in his class and wasn't going to start now, he said. He bounced her out of the class. She went to one of the Arts and Letters deans, who put her back in. When she showed up back at the class, the professor threw her out again. She bounced around like a ping pong ball, until the professor finally gave up but made it clear he was going to flunk her. 
So, Susan callod her older brother at Tulane just before the first exam to ask what she should do. llo suggested memorizing everything in her notes that the professor had said and throw it back to him, even if it wasn't on point. 
That's exactly what she did. liAr final grade'? ;\ begrudingly given "A." The upside? ln a convoluted way, the profnssor gave hor a gift. Susan became ono of the most knowledgeable students in the elass because of what she had to go through, she says. 
Ann Therese Darin-Palmer Susan Oglesbee Payne Julie Webb Duffy Susan Mogab Class of 1973 March 28 
The magic word 

For me, that seminal kids' show of tlH1 IIJXOs Greg was unforgettabln for many reasons. But tho Ruehlmann best thing of all about Peo Woo's Playhouse was the "magic word." Basically, at the b1~gin n i ng of Faillzf>oint the show, Pm1 Wee let us kids in on a little secrnt. There was a special word that day, a word that nveryono nlso did­n't know about. lin would tell us the word, and it was always something common like "fun" or "happy." Thon Poe Wen would hang out with some of his friends (such as a talking chair and a live pterodactyl). 
Here's the fun part: anytime anybody said tho sncrnt "magic word," the whole place would go insane. There was no containing the joy in Pee Wee Herman's house when tho magic word was uttered. All the Pee Woes and puppets and friends would join together to yell, and I quote: 
"AAAAAAAAAA!\AAAAA!\AAIIIII lllllllllllllllllllllllll!!!! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!'' 
So why am I telling you all this'? Because right now we, the Church, are celebrating the most wonderful season of' the year. Since the Easter Vigil, everything has been about joy and nxdte­ment and new life. ;\nd we'vo witnessed the return of a magieal word that's been absent from our vocabulary for a while. It's a word that expresses all our jubilation as bnlievers that Christ is risen. This word is ";\LLELUI!\!" 
During the Easter season, we repeatedly hear "Alleluia" and "Halleluia" and every imaginable variation. And with good rnason, too. The word captures our elation in onfl fell swoop as we shout it out to the Lord who has triumphed over sin and death. Plus, we have 40 days worth of ;\lleluias to catch up on. Saying it is the onn thing that all of us give up every year for Lnnt. We do this to mark the sadness and gravity of the time leading up to Christ's dnath. But once we commemorate Jesus' resurreetion, all heaven should break loose. 
Alleluia is the perfect summation of our responso to the Lord's victory. It proclaims our wonder and ecstasy. It announces the gratitude with whieh we approach the rison Jesus. !\nd in its sim­plicity, it also makes no effort to explain the total mystery of what Christ accomplished for us. It leaves the mystery a mystery, but leaves the celebration to us. 
Perhaps though, alleluia has somothing working against it. It sounds old-fashioned. It's borrowed from a dill'erent languago, and so maybe we don't connect to it the same way we do with other words. Well for those of you who feel this way, allow me to do some translating. In modern lingo, alleluia suggests all of the f'ol­lowing: 
1) Yipce! 
2) Hooray! 
3) WliEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Like Pee Wee's magic word, alleluia has been under wraps. But now that it's out of the bag again, just like tho rnagie word, it should set us oil' into a tit of euphoria. flow can wo keep from rejoicing in the incredible story of Easter'? 
In this joyful season, we need to ask ourselves, "]low aro wo showing our joy and gratitude this Easter?" This is not the timn to be lukewarm about anything. Nor is it any longer a time to focus on the graveness of Lent. The sun is shining, the long winter has thawed, and so too has the powor of death over us. God has given all this to us, and what lie asks in rnturn is that we throw a fifty­day party for llis Son. Pretty incredible deal, huh'? 
The magic word of the day is allnluia. It should be the word ol' every day until the Church leads us back into Lent. But in tho meantimo, we have somo celobrating to do. !\lleluia is back and badder than over. ;\nd we should livo with it always on our lips. 
Greg Ruelzlmann works in the office ofCampus Ministry. lie can be contacted at ruehlmann.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obser11er. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
Far from original, but still entertaining 
By COURTNEY WILSON Scene Writer 
Simon Green, played by Ashton Kutcher, and his girlfriend Theresa Jones, played by Zoe Saldana, are love­birds who plan to announce their engagement on the same weekend Theresa's parents will host a celebra­tion to renew their own vows. The dilemma begins with Theresa's failure to mention to her parents that her new boyfriend is not of African descent, as she and her family are. 
When Theresa's father, a bank loan officer, pulls up Simon's credit report, he is initially impressed by the prospect's qualifications. After meeting him in person, however, his attention quickly turns to an entirely different focus. Simon is white -very white ­and Theresa comes from an upper­middle-elass black family. Under the circumstances, Simon cannot help but feel intimidated by the presump­original classic "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner," starring Spencer Tracy and Katherine Hepburn. Keep in mind, however, that a reverse story line and comedic plot makes it much different from the first. 
Hoping for more laughs, the movie depends heavily on the comieal per­sonalities of Bernie Mac and Ashton Kutcher. Mac plays the part of Percy Jones, the disenchanted father previ­ously played by Spencer Tracy, while Kutcher accordingly plays Sidney Poitier's role as the distrusted boyfriend. 
Dynamic duo Mac and Kutcher seem like they are essentially playing them­selves in this movie. Like most of his roles, Mac plays the sarcastic and out­wardly unfriendly man who is actually just a big cuddly teddy bear on the inside. And Kutcher does a great job at playing the silly and amusing man we all know from his appearances on "That 70s Show" and "Punk'd." 
It is obvious that 
the film is carried 


tuous personali­almost entirely by
Guess Who

ty of his soon-to­the chemistry be father-in-law. between the two 
To make mat­stars; in fact, the ters worse, best scenes in the Simon has just movie feature witty quit his job. For back and forth
Director: Kevin Sullivan the sake of Writers: David Ronn and Jay Scherick taunting games impressing Starring: Bernie Mac, Ashton Kutcher, and disagreements 
Theresa's par­between the pair.
Zoe Saldana and Judith Scott ents, he deals When they attempt with the uncom-to outdo each fortable task of concealing this secret other in a series of activities, including till the end of the weekend. go-cart racing and tango dancing, their If this plot sounds at all familiar, it collaboration is very humorous. Fans of might be because "Guess Who," was either actor will absolutely love the two intended to be a satiric version of the together. 

'The Incredibles' DVD lives up to its name 
By EMILY IAROCCI 
Scene Writer 
Ever imagined what it would be like to be part of a Super Hero family? Many people certainly did as a child, and it is quite obvious that "The lncredibles" writer/director Brad Bird did as well. 
Pixar has done it again. "The lncredibles" is amazing. 
"The Incredibles" depicts Bird's ver­sion of the attempted "normal" life of the Parr family, all of whom possess superpowers. Bird's writing/direction, along with several readily identifiable charaeter voices including Craig T. Nelson, Holly Hunter, Samuel L. Jackson and Jason Lee created a mem­orable animated picture, praised by children and adults alike. 
Pre-marriage, Helen and Bob Parr worked as superheroes. Helen was known as Elastigirl because she was capable of stretching and contorting her body in all kinds of directions and shapes. Bob was Mr. Incredible, his extraordinary strength allowed him to do just about anything, including jump from building to building, slam through walls and much more. 
The two superheroes got married and shortly afterward were forced to go into hiding. Lawsuits against the superheroes were brought to court, and all of the "Supers" were forced to go into hiding and to suppress their natural inclinations to fight crime. Helen and Bob then started a family and had three superhero children. 
Violet, the oldest child, has the power to become invisible and also to create protective force fields. Dash, the troublemaking middle child, has superhuman speed. The baby, Jack Jack, does not have any obvious pow­ers until the end of the movie. 
Shortly after the introduction of the family, Bob (Craig T. Nelson) is fired from his job and is recruited to com­plete a secret superhero mission. His nostalgia for the old "Glory Days," as he calls them, compels him to take the secret mission. He lies to Helen (Holly Hunter) about the mission to hide his involvement in this superhero activity from his protective wife. 
Helen begins to get suspicious about his behavior and is afraid that he is having an affair. She eventually discov­ers that he had left for a mission, 
locates his where­abouts and sets off to find him. 
The children, minus Jack Jack, stow away in Helen's transporta­tion and the three find themselves caught in the middle of a sticky situation. They find that they must save Bob from Syndrome (Jason Lee). Syndrome 

While the movie jokes a lot about interracial dating, it also prompts viewers to recognize that prejudice and stereotypes are still relevant today. One scene in particular involves Kutcher ­after much instigation from Mac ­telling a series of derogatory black jokes in front of the entire family. Overall, the race talk is light and pre­sented in an appropriate viewer-friend­ly manner. One should not find the sub­ject overwhelming. 
Simon's overbearing desire to impress his girlfriend's father, however, makes the movie appear to be more reminiscent of "Meet the Parents" than any other previous film. In a series of lies concocted by the character, Simon finds himself in a series of slippery sit­uations involving his employment and athletic capabilities. Likewise, Percy acts as the arrogant and overprotective father, also familiar to "Meet the Parents." 
Although the movie is actually quite similar to many movies before it, it still maintains an individual kind of comedic appeal. But be forewarned to not go in expecting an Oscar-winning performance found in the original ver­sion ~''Guess Who." 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 


is a disgruntled, self-made superhero, who at one p.oint in his life, was Mr. Incredible's number one fan. Mr. Incredible dismissed Syndrome as a young boy, and since then he has been looking for revenge against Bob. 
The remainder of the film is a show­case of the family's powers and their cooperation throughout the mission. Pixar Studios left the end of the film wide open, so it is entirely possible that a sequel may be created sometime in the near future, which will no doubt, be well-received. 
This two-disc edition of "The Incredibles" is full of extra features. 
Two animated shorts are found on the second disc, one called "Jack Jack Attack," which shows the baby display­ing his superpowers to his unsuspect­ing babysitter. The second is a Pixar original short that was shown before the feature film in the theaters, called "Boundin'." Both short films are hilari­ous. 
There are behind the scenes features, all sorts of commentary from the crew, a short bloopers reel, deleted scenes, a list of "The Incredibles" superheroes along with their abilities, fake junket interviews and other features on the second disc. 
Between the movie itself and the fully loaded second disc, the two-disc edition of "The Incredibles," will keep you busy for hours and is well-worth the purchase. 
Contact Emily latocci at eiarocci@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 





CENE

Wednesday, March 30, 2005 page 17 
'Eternal Sunshine' shines on in DVD 

'The Notebook' proves to be a classic 
Pholo courtesy of darkhorizons.com Rachel McAdams, left, plays Allie, a wealthy Southern belle who falls In love with Noah, played by Ryan Gosling, In a summer romance that lasts a lifetime. 
old notebook. 
Although his wife Allin is completnly unaware of the history of their rela­tionship, it soon becomes apparnnt the narrative Noah is reading to her is, in fact, of thPir own enduring love story from years past. And what a torrid love affair it is. 
Allin (Haehel McAdams, bettor· known for her role as the unforget­table Hngina in "Mean Girls") comes from a vnry wnalthy and high-elass background. She is spending her sum­mer in North Carolina where she mePts Noah (Hyan Gosling of "Murder by Numbers"). 
Noah is a loeal teen from modest roots who darns to challenge hnr to take risks and make deeisions for her­self, freo from the influence of her overbearing -and at times harsh and judgmental -parents. The two love­birds spend a memorable summer together-full of many terrific expnri­nnces -which comes to an abrupt halt with a dramatic exit initiatnd by Allie's disapproving parents. 
Allie is eventually able to move Noah 
out of the forefront of her mind and begins a new relation­ship with an injured sol­dier she meets while working as a nurse dur­ing World War 11. The soldier is a successful businessman named Lon (James Mardsen, best known for his work as one-eyed-wonder Cyclops in "X-Men"). 
Lon eventually propos­es to Allie, who accepts 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Wri!N 
"t•:tnrnal Sunshine of tho Spotless Mind" was orw of tho f'innst films of 2004 -an uneompromisingly intrieatn, complex and ornotional experience. It garrw n~d eri tical acdai m and two Antd IHllY Award nominations: Best Supporting Artn~ss for Kate Winslet's charmingly ofT-kilter performance as Clenwntine and Best Original SrnHHrplay, whirh it won, for Charlie Kau I'm an. l'inrro Bismuth and Michel Condry's !wad-spinning script. 
ThP f'ilm follows Joel, a man who n~rnntly broke-up with his girlfriend Clnnwntirw. Clnnwntirw has undergone a pnu~nss at l.aruna to have the nwmo­ry of' lwr n~lationship with Joel erased. .Joel, as a sort of' I'IWfmgn, decides to urHIPrgo tlw sarrw process, but decides midway through that lw doesn't want to forgot Clerrwntinn af'tnr all. As Elijah Wood romnHmts on tho I>VD while try­ing to explain tim film, "I just tell peo­ple that it's a Charlie Kaufman film," which is to say that it's unendingly com­plicated and intricate. A brief plot syn­opsis doosn't give j ustieo to tho convolu­tions of tho story and tho character 
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind 
Collector's Edition 
Universal 
By JULIE HYNES 
S«·nt· Cririt 
<)uot.ns from "Tiw NotPiwok" pervade AIM profilns and often an~ listed as quotations on thnf'acebook.eom. On thosn ran~ urwvnntful nights at Notre Damn, it is not uncommon to sne away mnssages that road "watching 'The Notebook"' or "Hyan Gosling, please fal.lwr my drildr11n." 
But what is this erazo all about'! What is it ahout "Tiw Notnbook" that snoms to have tugg11d at the heart­strings of so many'? 
It only eosts a nwager $2.99 worth of l'lt~x Points l.o lind out, but hopnfully by tho end of this review the choice hntwnnn this instant elassic and a Subway sandwidr will be a no-brainer. 
"Tiw Not.nlwok" is the film adaptation of tlw lwstsnlling novel by Nicholas Sparks, a Notre Damn graduate whose otlwr work ineludns "A Walk to Hnnwrnlwr" and "Messago in a Bottle." Tlw movie hegins with an adorable eld­erly man n~ading to his wife, who is artlktml with Alzheimer's, from a worn interactions. Tho film truly has to be seen to be understood. 

Universal and Focus Features released "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" on DVD late in 2004 in a single-disc edition. Then, almost without warning, they released a two­disc edition at tho tail Pnd of the year. This wouldn't have been so upsetting to fans of "Etnrnal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" if Universal Studios had announced both editions simultaneous­ly, so fans would know to pass on tho single-disc and wait for the forthcom­ing double-disc edition. This alarming business praetice of putting the single edition on the shelves only weeks before the newest and more complex ndition is announced seems to be hap­pening with disheartening regularity 
In any ease, the !irst disc of tho two­disc version is identical to the single­disc of the single-disc edition, and it's a line DVD. The anamorphic widescreen presentation preserves the theatrkal ratio of 1.85:1 and looks quite good. Much of this film has a low-budget appearance, so the picture quality is exactly what one expects. Sound is eithnr 5.1 digital or DTS and both traeks sound great, but this is, for the most part, a dialogue-driven ntm. The 
OTS soundstagn is slightly 
smoother and punchier, 
but both tracks offer an 
immersive experience. 
Thorn are also forced 
menus at the start of the 
DVD. but these can 
thankfully be skipped. 
The extras are numer­
ous and occasionally 
insightful, but sometimes 
seem a bit lluffy. The fea­
turettes are sometimes 
cursory and fail to delve deep into the making of the picture. The best feature is tho commentary track by Gondry and Kaufman, who sound relaxed and com­fortable with each other. Both offer interesting anecdotes and observations about tho film. Sadly, the trailer is absent, as are any other advertising promotions. The second disc of extras offers just over an hour of material, so it's not really enough to warrant an upgra:de if the single-disc edition has already been purchased. 
The packaging, which is smugly self­congratulatory, screams "award promo­tion." The box is plastered with words like "unforgettable, profound, rna!, bril­liant, wondrous." Tho booklet is also a waste, filled with blurbs from reviews praising the lilm's wonderful qualities. We know it's wonderful -that's why we bought it, Universal. 
This is a good I>VI> of one of tho best pictures of 2004. It could've bonn bet­ter, but the featuro film is tho main rna­son to buy, and it's in finn shapn. Tlw two-disc edition is rneomnwnded, but it's not worth upgrading if you already own the single-disc version. 
Contact Brian Doxtadcr at bdoxtadc@nd.cdu 

to the great delight of her parents. 
However, she soon realizes that she must see her first love one last time before taking the plunge. It quickly becomes evident that the sizzling flame, which once burned strongly between them, is nowhere near extin­guished. Allie must make the difficult choice between a safe bet and an unbridled passion. 
The movie follows the book reason­ably elosely and the onscreen chem­istry between up-and-coming actors Gosling and McAdams does justice to the ardor expertly articulated by Sparks in his tumultuous novel. Several twists enrich the plot and leave the audience at the edge of their seats wondering how tlw movie will end. 
"The Not1~book" mania hit Americans of all ages and genders and tells of the widnsprnad desire for snaring drama in one's own life. Unfortunately f'or many students, it often proves a challenge just to find tho time to sleep and per­chance dream of such scorching pas­sion with the rampant never-ending reading assignments and excruciating­ly lengthy and tedious science labs. 
For those who know what I am talk­ing about, live vicariously through the characters of "The Notebook." After all, "The O.C." is a rerun this week. 
Contact Julie Hynes at jhynesl@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
NBA 
Sonics overpower Grizzlies 102-99 for playoff berth 
Associated Press Denver and 2 1/2 in front of the two battled for a rebound. 
Minnesota. "There's nothing I can say 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -After a "It's frustrating to lose at any that wouldn't get me fined," two-year absence, the Seattle time," Gasol said. "At this point Mitchell said. "When you have SuperSonics are in the Western in the season, it's more frus­three or four players cursing at Conference playoffs again. trating because we're trying to each other, how do you deter­
The Sonics clinched a playoff move forward. It especially mine which one said the worst berth with a victory over the hurts to lose at home. We of the profanity?" Memphis Grizzlies. They were should protect our home court The Heat didn't escape the led by Ray Allen and Jerome better." game unscathed. Eddie Jones, James with 22 points each, who had 11 rebounds for just James' a career high. Miami 103, Toronto 91 the 14th double-double of his 
"This is a big win to come on A distinct chill was coming career, injured his right ankle the road and have some guys from the sheet of ice that will with 1:11 left and was helped down and find a way to win like host a traveling skating show off the floor. He appeared to that is pretty impressive for our this week. And when the roll the ankle while leaping into team," said Seattle guard Luke Toronto Haptors lost their cool, the first row of stands for a Hidnour. "It feels good to make they were finished. loose ball, but X-rays were neg­sure we're in the playoffs." Shaquille O'Neal had 28 ative. 
Ridnour keyed a fourth-quar­points and Dwyane Wade added Jones, who received treat­ter comeback for Seattle (49-27, leading the Miami Heat to a ment after the game and said 21 ), which trailed by 14 earlier. win in a game marred by the the ankle "wasn't all that bad," llis 3-pointer with 2:55 left fourth-quarter ejections of and he's hopeful of playing in completed the Sonics' rally for Raptors forward Morris Indiana on Thursday. a 93-92 lead. Peterson and coach Sam 
Memphis tied the game at 99 Mitchell. LA Lakers 117, New York 107 after Pau Gasol converted a 3-Damon Jones added 14 for The Los Angeles Lakers broke point play with :46.2 remain­Miami, which outscored . their eight-game losing streak ing. James, who was 9-of-11 Toronto 24-10 over the final when Kobe Bryant scored 20 of from the field, made one free 8:01, extended its franchise­his 32 points in the second half throw with 27.6 left. Ridnour's best home winning streak to 17 to beat the road-weary New two free throws with 15.2 left games and moved 10 games York Knicks. gave the Sonics their final mar­ahead of Detroit in the Eastern New York's Stephon Marbury gin. Conference standings. The Heat had a season-high 45 points, 
Mike Miller missed a pair of could clinch home-court advan­six rebounds and 10 assists in long 3-pointers in the final sec­tage for the first three playoff defeat. He scored 34 in the sec­onds as the Grizzlies lost their rounds by Saturday. ond half, shooting 9-of-13 from third straight and fourth out of "Sometimes we come out fast, the floor and 1 0-of-11 from the their last five. sometimes we don't," Wade foul line. He wound up making 
Hidnour finished with 15 said. "But as long as we end 12 of 22 field goals and 15 of points for Seattle, while reserve strong, that's all we really care 16 free throws in falling five Damien Wilkins added 13. about." points shy of his career high. Heggie Evans scored 12 points Hafer Alston had 19 points The losing streak was the and grabbed 13 rebounds and and Chris Bosh had a 16-point, second longest for the Lakers kept Seattle in the game as the 13-rebound game for the (33-37) since they moved from Sonics struggled in the first Raptors, who also got 15 points Minneapolis to Los Angeles in half. from Peterson. 1960. The Lakers lost their last 
The Sonics were without Miami led by six points with 10 games of the 1993-94 sea­to let a sore left ankle, lack of said Brendan Malone, 3-2 since Hashard Lewis, their second­3:46 left when Wade drove the son. That was the last time they sleep or blown layup affect him. replacing the fired Paul Silas as leading scorer, who sat out with lane and was fouled by failed to qualify for the playoffs, James hit two key 3-pointers Cavaliers coach. "We pushed a right foot injury, and reserve Peterson. The two got tangled something they seem destined down the stretch and scored 22 the ball and ran off our forward Danny Fortson, who is up, exchanged words and were to do this year for just the sec­points to lead the Cleveland defense. Our defense was very recovering from a left ankle separated -but Peterson kept ond time since 1976. They are Cavaliers past the Los Angeles good." sprain. shouting as O'Neal tried to in 1Oth place in the Western Clippers 94-84 Tuesday night. Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 19 
"We won a game that a lot of intervene. Conference, and trail Denver "I thought we would be a lot points, 15 rebounds and three people didn't think we could "He fouled me pretty hard for the eighth and final playoff more tired," said James, who blocked shots as the Cavaliers win," said Seattle coach Nate and after the play, he fouled me berth by 5 1/2 games with 12 got treatment on his ankle moved within 1 1/2 games of McMillan, whose team leads the again," Wade said. "I let him remaining. before the game and shot just Washington for fourth place Northwest Division by 10 112 know, pretty much, that you Caron Butler added 26 points 7 -for-20 from. "I felt OK. overall in the Eastern games over Denver. can't do that." for Los Angeles. Devean "We ran early and just Conference. The top four teams 
Gasol, in his best perform­Wade was called for one tech­George, playing just his third jumped on them. We worked get the home-court edge in the ance since returning March 20 nical; Peterson was called for game of the season, had 18 together defensively and were first round and Cleveland is 26­from a foot injury, led Memphis two, drawing the second after points and Chucky Atkins just playing complete basket­9 at Gund Arena. with 24 points and eight his shouting fit. scored 12 for the Lakers, who ball." "We want the playoffs and we rebounds. Bonzi Wells scored "We were playing hard and shot 53.4 percent and commit­Cleveland had lost five of six want to be at home, too," said 17, and Shane Battier added 16 for the most part I thought we ted only 10 turnovers two days before rallying for a one-point point guard Eric Snow. "Every points. Stromile Swift and Earl had a chance to win the game," after committing a season-high overtime win Monday in New team is fighting for it now and Watson finished with 15 each Peterson said. "So when some­27. Orleans. The win Tuesday gave we're right there. We have to for the Grizzlies. thing like that happens, (it's) The Lakers, who have had the Cavaliers victories on con­keep winning." 
While Seattle was celebrating your emotions that take charge. defensive problems all season, secutive nights for the first time Corey Maggette scored 26 its playoff-clinching win, I got the short end of the stick." are now 7-32 in games where since Nov. 26-27 and revitalized points to lead Los Angeles, but Memphis was wondering how Mitchell was thrown out with their opponent scores 100 or their quest for home-court the Clippers have lost four its current slide could affect its 1 :4 7 remaining after arguing a more points. advantage in the playoffs. straight on the road, where playoff hopes. The Grizzlies are foul called against Jalen Rose, "We got to bed at three or they are 7-26 with eight of their currently in the seventh spot, who clearly tried to trip Eddie Cleveland 94, LA Clippers 84 four this morning, but I thought final 11 games away from but only a half game ahead of Jones under the basket after LeBron James was not about we had an awful lot of energy," home. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Catholic family offering full time summer childcare opportunity; 4 children ages 6 to 12; Scottsdale Mall area; 7:30 am to 4:30 pm;wages negotiable; non smoker; own transportation needed. Call Maureen 360·1738. 
Childcare for 10 and 13 year old after school (3-6) and summer (10­6). Nonsmoker, references and reli­able car essential. Call or email Violet at 243·3466 or vbloom 
@nd.edu 
FoR SALE 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm, 2 bath. For details fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. 
2000 Tracker. 26,000 miles. $5200. 634·4422. 

FoR RENT 
Great 6·7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­able NOW. Both Close to ND.W/D,on-site parking. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574·229-36q9 Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes (574)250·7653. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE· 605 ST. PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG· ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876· 3537. 
2-3 bdrm houses avail. now and 05­06. 
Close to ND. Call276-2333. Omni Properties 
CORBY ST. HOUSE 4 RENT. MAY­JULY. CALL 284-5223. 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 05-06 year. 3· 5 bdrms. Close to ND. Indoor Basketball Court. 272-3126 or 273­9473. 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 
Close to ND Excellent area. 
19237 Cleveland,6-7bdrm; 202 E. Cripe 4bdrm; 222 E. Willow 3bdrm. 2773097 
Room for rent. Very nice apt.cotnplex 10 min. from campus.$350/mo.(517)974-6225. 
Two story house completely remod· eled 2003. Ready for 2005-06 school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student hous­ing, Laundromat next door (drycleaning also),basement avail­able for storage of bicycles, lug· gage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large liv· ing room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 
3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417 Napoleon (off ND Ave.)2 min. from ND. $1100/mo. 2 roommates/1 lam­ily. Call299-9428. 
5·7 BDRMS.$195/PERSON.SUM· MER OR 05/06. WASHERIDRYER.329·0308 
PERSONAL 
Second weekly middle name day 
Elizadoolittle; Anna: No You Eat It!! 
D: I know you and me isn't that probable, but can't a guy ever wish for the impossible? 
K: If I had a puking smiley face right now I'd use it! 
Who would you rather??? Ann or Mary Kate? 
Wednesday March 30, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

Tbis past Easter Vi~il, 12 members of our Notre Dame communit~ were fu[{~ initiateo into tbe Catbolic cburcb. At tbis liturg~1 tbe 12 receiveo the Sacraments of Baptism, Confirmation ano Eucharist. Please join us in congratulating tbem ana welcoming tbem into our faith communit~. 

sbane Fi»J,{e1 Goofathey 

M in()i Q()[e 

\ J 
u 
~ • i ~ 

Nathan Farle~, C.S.C1 Goofather A1111e Vorbes, Goomother 
Micbael Torres Maril~n Villarreal 
C-M 










Campus Ministry 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
TENNIS 
Sharapova outlasts Henin-Hardenne in Nasdaq 100 Open 
Wimbledon champion is set to face one of Williams sisters next 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -Maria Sharapova started strong and finished fast, while Justine Henin-Hardenne was feisty but rusty. 
Henin-Hardenne, playing her first tournament in seven months, staged a gallant come­back Tuesday but lost to Sharapova 6-1, 6-7 (6), 6-2 in the quarterfinals of the Nasdaq-100 Open. 
"She has been a top player," Sharapova said. "I was expecting a really tough match. It came out to be really tough." 
Sharapova, seeded second, failed to convert three match points in the second set but final­ly closed out the victory an hour later with a backhand winner accompanied by her trademark shriek. 
The Wimbledon champio·n, who said she has been winning lately despite a sore back, will play a Williams sister in the semifinals Thursday. Serena and Venus, both three-time champi­ons at Key Biscayne, were sched­uled for their first meeting since July 2003 on Tuesday night. 
Advancing to the men's quar­terfinals was six-time Key Biscayne champ Andre Agassi, who endured a grueling first set and beat French Open champion Gaston Gaudio 7-6 (7), 6-2. Gaudio faded after converting just one of 10 breakpoint chances in the opening set, which lasted 85minutes. 
Two Spaniards made the men's final eight. Rafael Nadal, an 18­year-old left-bander with two titles already this year, beat No. 13-seeded Ivan Ljubicic 6-4, 6-7 (5), 6-3. Unseeded David Ferrer rallied past countryman Juan Carlos Ferrero 6-7 (7), 6-3, 7-5. 
· No. 26 Dominik Hrbaty, who upset Marat Satin in the third round, eliminated 18-year-old Gael Monfils 6-3, 6-3. 
Henin-Hardenne, coming back from a virus and knee injury, was pleased to win three matches and give Sharapova a battle. 
"It's pretty amazing," the three-time Grand Slam champion said. "I couldn't imagine before coming to Miami that I would play at this level. I did a good job, so it's good for my confidence." 
Against Sharapova, Henin­Hardenne dug in after a poor start. She shanked several shots early, and even her picturesque backhand malfunctioned on a mis-hit that sailed 10 feet long on break point. She blew an over­head and lost that game, too, and hit a drop shot that didn't even reach the net. 
Sharapova, meanwhile, repeat­edly placed shots inches inside the lines to keep Henin­Hardenne on the defensive. 
"She was playing unbelievable tennis," Henin-Hardenne said. 
"She's tall and she's powerful.. She's a great player." 
But with Sharapova on the verge of victory at 5-4, 40-love in the second set, Henin-Hardenne saved three match points. Sharapova then double-faulted to lose the game. 
With Henin-Hardenne hitting her groundstrokes more aggres­sively, Sharapova saved three set points to hold for 6-6, then saved three more in the tiebreaker before dumping a backhand in the net on the final point of the set. 
"You just keep fighting and keep being positive," Sharapova said. "Easy to say, hard to do." 
She quickly regrouped in the final set, taking a 3-0 lead against a tiring Henin-Hardenne and improved to 5-0 in quarterfi­nals this year. She has rebounded from a 6-0, 6-0 loss to Lindsay Davenport at Indian Wells earlier this month. 
The first set of the Agassi­Gaudio match was an endurance test with plenty of long rallies and each player winning 61 points. In the tiebreaker, Gaudio committed a foot fault and six unforced errors, allowing Agassi to take control. 
Midway through the second set, it became clear Gaudio was spent and his judgment impaired. The Argentine tried an acrobatic shot between his legs and dumped the ball into the net to fall behind 4-2. 
"It's an odd shot to play in that situation," Agassi said. 

The S£~/Jiavo Case: Life and Death -Faith, La\\l, and 1\llorality i\ La\\' Scftool Pa rtel Discussion 
4:00 p.n1. \\'edncsday, lVIarch 30, 2005 La,,: School· ( .. ourtrooni 
l
1 rofessor .John H. Robinson \:Vhat Does the Catholic ·rradition Sav about 
•· 
. .\rtiticial Nutrition and HvdJ"ation for l1aticnts in a
., 
Pcrsist£•nt \ 1cgetative State·! 
Professor .Anthonv .l Bellia~ tlr. (~an and Should Congress (;h·c the ~"ederal ("'ourts
• 
.Jurisdiction to Hear a Case 1\lready Decided bv the Florida Courts? 
l1rofessor l{ichard \\:. (;arnett \Vcre ~rcrri Schiavo's l{eligious-f .. reedorn R.ights \riolatcd'! 
l
1 rofessor .John 1\l. Finnis Ho\\' do La\\' and 1\'lor~llity l{clate in the Schitn'o 
( ., ..,
.ase .. ·~ 
Prot"essor l'VI. Cathleen Kavenv.. ruoderator 
... 
Wednesday, March 30, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Three Panthers investigated for steroids 
Sauerbrun, Mitchell, Steussie had steroid prescriptions filled 
Associated Press 
CIIAHLOTTE, N.C. Carolina Panthers Todd Satwrbrun and Jeff Mitehell and former player Todd StPussie had steroid prnserip­tions l'illed by a West Columbia, S.C., doetor now undnr inwstigation by fodnral authoritins, according to a "(>0 Minutns Wednnsday" rnport. 
In a rnl1~asn TuPsday, the CBS Nnws show said the playnrs all had prt~scriptions for tnstos­tP!'oJw ~~rnmn lillnd within two weeks of' the Panthers' appear­ance in the 2004 Super Bowl. 
In addition to the eream, whieh is banned by tho NFL, Sauorbrun -one of' tho leagun's top puntnrs -also obtained syringes and the injndable steroid Stanozolol, which is also banned by the leagun. 
The prnscriptions were roportedly written by Dr. James Shortt, who is the sub­joet of' a Drug Enforeement Administration probe for allegedly proscribing storoids and oth n r pe rf'o rrn a nco­enhancing drugs. 
Mitchell. a eontor, filled a testosterone prescription seven times, while Steussie, an offen­sive linnman now with the 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers, obtained 11 refills over an eight-month period in 2004, CBS reported. 
"We've heard rumors and speculation about what was going to be in the CBS rnport, but this is tho first time we've hoard tho specific allegations," Panthers general manager Marty Ilunwy said. "Obviously, any time there is a possible connection with alleged aetions that violate NFL rules, it concerns us grnatly. 
"We are doaling with allega­tions ·right now <ind we will continue to cooperate with the NFL and law enforcement in this matter." 
The Panthers have boon cooperating with a federal 
subpoona that sought contact information f'or several players as part of the probn of' Shortt. 
Hurney has stressed that none of the team's players have tested positive for steroids. 
Aecording to a report last month in Tho State of Columbia, Shortt has been under investigation since May. 
In September, authorities raided Shortt's Health Dimensions office and Congaree Pharmaey near tho Columbia Metropolitan Airport. State and federal agents seized computer data, at least 21 boxes of' patient and medieal records and 256 audio cassettes, tho paper reported. 
FREEBIES (SUBS & CLUBS ONLY! 
Onion. lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, tomato. mayo. sliced cucumber, Dijon mustard, oil & vinegar, and oregano. 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK !r 
. 
SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 574.277.8500 
c 
''VOUR MOM WANT$ VOU TO EAT AT JIMMV JOJ.IN'$!'' © 

NBA 
Fan pleads no contest to charges 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC, Mich. -A fan charged with throwing a ehair during one of the worst brawls in U.S. sports history pl1~adnd no contest Tuesday to felony assault. lie is expnetnd to receive a sentence ranging from probation to thren months in jail. 
Bryant Jackson was tlw only one of thn 13 players and fans charged with a felony for tlwir alleged roln in the Nov. 19 melee during an Indiana Pacers-l>ntroit Pistons ganw at Tho Palace of Auburn II ills. 
Oakland County Circuit Court Judge nan Lee Chabot indiratnd shn would snntnnee Jaekson to up to thrnn months in jail, but he could get probation if hn nxprnssns rnmorsn at thn snn­tendng !waring May :t 
Events at The Palaeo wnn~ triggered by a "mob mnntality," tho judgn said. 
"It's been reported to me that lw is ol.lwrwisn a productivn membnr of society. lin has a job, he has a family, lw has kids, and hn supports thnm." Chabot said. 
Assistant county proserutor Paul Walton. howevnr, said his ofliee would rnquest a s1~ntnnr.n of one ynar in jail -in part because of Jackson's prior r1~eord. lie has a 1993 eonvk­tion for carrying a eonenaled weapon, a IIJS7 convktion for unlawful driving away and a misdemeanor domestk violnnce conviction, Walton said. 
Walton said the mob mentali­ty didn't nxeuse Jackson's actions and noted that Jackson's actions endangered children who were among the fans at The Palace. 
"These are adults," he said of' the brawl partidpants. "They should be able to control them­selves. If thny ean't, they should be in jail." 
Jackson and his attorney, Christopher McGrath. dndinod to comment after the !waring. 
Jackson, a :H -year-old resi­dent of Geneseo County's Mundy Township, is aecusnd of dislodging a chair and !waving it over his !wad, hitting snvnral people. lie also is aeeusnd of throwing a drink at the Pacers as they lnf't the eourt area. 
lie pleaded no contest to orw count of felony assault and onn count of misdnmnanor assauIt and battery. A no eontnst plna is not an admission of' guilt but is treatnd as sud1 for sontnne­ing purposns. Me<;rath said Jackson was pll~ading no con­tnst instnad of pleading guilty because of civil liability issuns. 
II' Chabot dneidns al'tnr reviewing tlw 1~ase in morn detail that 90 days in jail is insu!'fieinnt, .Jaekson has the right to withdraw his plna and tho easn could pnH~nnd to trial, Walton said. 
Thren other fans worn sen­teneed to probation earlier this month for walking on the court or throwing objeets. 
A motion !waring is sehnd­ulnd for April S in tho casns of the live Pacers charged in tlw brawl -Bon Artnst, Jnrmainn O'Neal. Stephen .Jackson, Anthony .Johnson and David Harrison -and tho ot.hnr four fans. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Pearl to take on Volunteers' coaching position 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Bruce Pearl plans to stay at Tennessee for a while. 
After leading 12th-seeded Wisconsin-Milwaukee on a surprising run through the NCAA tournament, Pearl was introduced as the Volunteers' sixth basketball coach in 16 years. 
"The one thing about coach­ing that is the most challeng­ing is that it is nomadic in nature," Pearl said Monday. "If you win, they are worried you are going to leave. And if you lose, they are packing your bags. There just doesn't seem to be anything in between." 
Pearl has done some moving around. The 45-year-old coach won a national championship during nine seasons at Division II Southern Indiana before moving to Wisconsin­Milwaukee four years ago. 
"This is my dream to be able to run a program like this," he said. "And because I am built that way, I am digging in." 
University president John Petersen appreciated the sen­timent. 
He gave Pearl a Tennessee jersey with the No. 14, mark­ing his 14th season as a coach, and expressed hope that he would be presenting Pearl with another one -a No. 24 -in 10 years as Petersen retires. 
Pearl took Wisconsin-
Milwaukee to the round of 16 this year for the first time, beating Alabama and Boston College before falling to top­seeded Illinois. The Vols haven't been in the tourna­ment since 2001 and missed it in all four years under the fired Buzz Peterson. 
He was fired March 13 after a 14-17 season. 
"I have complete confidence that he will take our program to the next level," university president John Petersen said of Pearl, whose career record is 317-84. 
Tennessee doubled Pearl's package with a five-year deal paying $800,000 a year, plus bonuses, and agreed to buy out his Wisconsin-Milwaukee contract for $194,000. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee athlet­ic director Bud Haidet was dis­appointed Pearl was leaving, but said the departure didn't come as a total surprise. 
"Success is always a double­edged sword in our business," he said. 
Pearl told the UWM players Sunday night about his deci­sion. 
"To be honest, I guess I'm a little surprised that he went to Tennessee as far as it being his first offer," guard Mark Pancratz said. 
Pearl wants the Tennessee men to play up to the reputa­tion of the university's other nationally ranked programs, notably the football team and 
the women's basketball pro­gram. 
"It's time for us to hold our end up," Pearl said, with foot­ball coach Phillip Fulmer look­ing on. 
Tennessee women's coach Pat Summitt, whose name often comes up as a candidate to be the men's coach, said she has heard "great things" about Pearl. 
Pearl huddled with Ten­nessee players Monday before the official announcement. Players said they liked what they heard. 
"I feel a lot better that we have a coach and he wants to play the style of play that I like to play," junior guard C.J. Watson said. 
On CAmpus (.di'AIIUAtion lt/Jeekenll ._$peeiAI £l1:}A!J 12-16, 200J 
Nee~ C! pLC!ce foY !:jOV<.r fC!~'~Atl!:j to stC!!:j, TY!:j title SC!CYU~ 1-teC!tt 'PC!YLSitl Ce~A-ttr [lStA.tl~tV\.0 3i OY iig5OIA !:jOV<.Y" CC!~i~Ap!A.S ~i~AC!ps.] 
we set C! ~o.oo peY persoV\. o!oV~-C!tt.oV\. for title week?.e!Aol. 
*GOMEZ 6ARLY [TVl!A.YSo!C!tj] -STAY LATh [Mo!Ao!C! tj]" -SC!I'IAe o!o~AC~tt.oV\.. 
For r-eseYVC!tt.oV~.-S pteC!se cC!LL: PC!!A.L 6~~!:j C!t .5)1--4--b3i-7512 OY MC!Y!:j Fowfer-k?.o C!t .5)1--4--b3i:!J-i-3b 

s-ummer at Northwestern_ 
-.~ ..-.nut:~:~ ;~~~ N<·~ u;p7J(i."':'~tu n 1..::::-uv•::•~·H ~--:..tff::t:•...1u ~.:~·,:lu~.:.tt.>uu ..d ...~:'t,$-~t ~::~~~~-•· ~.4.d}~"<r~~ (V H~~.<!-$ n.~·Y.aJs.. t )t,.s.~ ~:;:.o;.I:.,.~'H>..H t..• t.,.:,',':'><-$.1':d.:" Hf'J$.!r.IS¥¥'> -~Mh:<•nf.h.." )"S~U ·~<1-:J1 ····:c.t::::ra· ·;rY.:$,'\{>~: l<:· ., .AI·v h ,.,p. t~t:f ~l~'?..:.:..-~1. ~·· f'Ul 'i...-u-::. Jtx.:~· :e.UI.or.:J~.;.r.'< 
( :4.~~J~ "~<-<.<':'< r,=$nF·:-~·::-·a~f~ '·'~"~ .. ·'l·,.~.: ..:·k ·w~~~··*,·~-~·-~··r>·; ~--:-'=':· f~~U$<~),· Z:'.~ «"~¥i~t·-·-;.v-.,,..,~k -~.-=~~'1..:::··,~;:=:~==$.:: 
-~-·~---~-H~~>·: .... Q..t-.;.=n~ ~-"<.'.>:·,~ ~ ..«n ~,·,.u·-:·~ .&. h?{:· -~ ......,,,~,. ~·~ .... r>:··.>ht H~ ht~-rc~::·<fS'f. ,h..,=·•~~j::.:·n-...· 
~--~ ,;, • (··:· ¥: h·~·<f~!~ J~,t"•F,.i.l!;.>::: ~...;._--.~ ~ h~'l,. ~-r;:.uu~~y.,::r :.tH...~· •·:) ~---._j.)f!-: ~n~r~·":E¥Y~·-·>.:. m 
; •. ~->--~~ h=qz...-,J··:,J:-.---~t"t. ~$~·hi ... ,...~~~··;; -~·rn::;-s~ 


NCtR l T l \X/ESTER l'"' 
•. 1NJ'~o·'FB.StT1' 

PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor mvites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about 16 highly motivated and talented students arc admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our student~ go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy. philosophy. political science, and economics. 
If you arc looking for 
(I) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice. without all the requirements of asecond major. and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and student~ who share your interests. then PPE wants you! 


FOR MORE INFORMATION Professor John Roos. Polittcal Science Department. Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E·MAIL APPLICATION, simply send arequest to Professor Roos. The application deadline is noon on Thursday, April7. Late applications will be accepted only if openings arc still available. 
PPE INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday, March 30,5 PM, 204 De Bartolo 
AROUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 30, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Page 23 
Baseball America College Top 25 
team ren1rd pre11ious 
1 Texas 23·4 4 2 Cal St. Fullerton 17-6 1 3 Georgia Tech 21·4 5 4 Tulane 21·5 2 5 LSU 19·6 3 6 Mississippi 19·5 7 7 Florida 19·7 11
" 
8 Miami (Florida) 22-7 6 9 Arkansas 21-4 8 10 Arizona 18-10 13 11 North Carolina 20·5 16 12 Stanford 14·8 12 13 Rice 18·9 15 14 South Carolina 19·5 9 15 Bavlor 16-10 10 16 Texas A&M 19·9 14 17 Florida State 27·5 17 18 Oregon State 19·4 18 19 Coli. of Charleston 20·4 19 20 Nebraska 21·3 20 21 Mississippi State 17-4 24 22 Long Beach State 18·10 NR 23 Auburn 19-8 NR 24 Arizona State 18-13 NR 25 Central Florida 25-5 25 
ESPN/USA Softball Collegiate Top 25 
team record prev. 
1 Michigan (17) 31-1 1 2 Arizona (3) 26-2 2 3 California 29-3 3 4 Texas 26-4 4 5 Tennessee 37-4 5 6 Texas A&M 31-2 n 7 Stanford 23·4 6 8 Bavlor 31-4 n 9 Oklahoma 33-6 9 10 UCLA 18-6 10 11 Alabama 36·7 11 12 Georgia 28·7 12 13 -Florida 27·6 14 14 Louislana-Latavene 22·7 13 15 Oregon State 19·6 15 16 Missouri 27-3 16 17 Washington 16-9 17 18 Fresno State 20·7 18 19 Iowa 25·5 21 20 Arizona Stale 25-7 22 21 Georgia Tech 32·7 23 22 Nebraska 20·11 T19 23 Northwestern 18·9 24 24 Creighton 22·4 NR 25 LSU 17·11 T19 
Big East Baseball 
team overall con}." 
1 Boston College 14·6 3·1 2 Rutgers 12·8 3·1 3 NOTRE DAME 12·10 3·1 4 Villanova 12·6·1 2·2 5 Georgetown 14-10 2·2 6 Connecticut 12·5 1-1 7 St. John's 9-9 1-1 8 Pittsburgh 11-8 1-3 9 West Virginia 9-14 1-3 10 Seton Hall 5-13 1:3 
around the dial 
NBA 
Bulls at Bobcats 7 p.m., Comcast Nuggets at Jazz 9 p.m., Altitude 76ers at Suns 10 p.m., ESPN 
MLB SPRING TRAINING White Sox at Diamondbacks 3:05p.m., Com cast 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 
STOHHS, Conn. -Two years ago, Charlie Villanuova thought he was ready for the NBA. Now, he says he's sure. 
UConn 's 6-foot-11, 240­pound sophomore forward said Tuesday he will skip his linal two years of col­loge eligibility to enter the NBA draft. 
It will be the second time Villanueva has gone through the NBA evalua­tion process. Coming out of Blair Academy in Blairstown,. N.J., in 200:~. Villanueva declared for the draft, but changed his mind al'ter workouts in lhmt of NBA seouts. 
"I knew I wasn't ready," Villanueva said. "I know I have to work on my body, to get stronger, but I'm 100 percent conlident this time. I didn't have that feeling coming out of high school." 
Villanueva led the Huskies in seoring this sea­son, averaging 13.6 points and 8.3 rebounds per game. Seouts have praised Villanueva's ball-handling, passing and shot-blocking skills, and have projeeted he will be a late lirst-round pick. 
Scouts also have expressed eoncern he's not big enough to pound with the power forwards in the NBA, and he might not have tho defense to stay with the smaller forwards in the league. 
Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun told Villanueva he needs a lot of work in the weight room to got ready for the pros.. 
Villanueva is the ni!lth player during Calhoun's tenure at UConn to leave school early for the NBA. The coach said he is not shy about telling players when he thinks they arh not ready. 
"I don't think Charlie's making a mistake," he said. "Would I have liked him to stay for another year'? Yeah. Could ho usn another year'? To some degree, thoy all could." 
Villanueva chose to go 
pro in part because his mother was in a serious car accident last year on her way to work. and he doesn't want hnr to havn to work again. 
Evon though Villanueva will likely earn millions of dollars nnxt year, his departure will hurt UConn's grade under a sys­tem being implmnent•1d to eval\.(ato acadnmi1~ progress of NCAA pro­grams. Calhoun said that should be changod. 
"Hight now, we snom to havo lost a little hit of" sight that a few of our vnry, wry special students havn an opportunity to gnt a very, very special job," Calhoun said. 
IN BRIEF 
Yankees fill hole, deal for 
minor league catcher 
Nieves 
TAMPA, Fla. -Tho New York Yankees acquired minor league eateher Wil Nieves from tho Los Angelos Angels for right-hander Bret Prinz on Tuesday. 
By trading for Nieves the Yankees lilled a hole ereatnd when they sent top prospect Dioner Navarro to Arizona in the deal for Handy Johnson in January. 
Nieves will be assigned to Triple-A Columbus, but Yankees general man­ager Brian Cashman said Nieves eould be the lirst player called up if Jorge Posada or John Flaherty are injured. 
"It will add depth at catcher," Cashman said. 
Nieves hit. 297 with 10 homers and 53 HBis in 108 games last season for Triple-A Salt Lake. 
Prinz went 1-0 with a 5.08 ElM in 26 games with Nnw York last season. lin also made 29 appearance, going 3-1, for Columbus. Boilermakers ~Ian trans­fers after coach's retire­ment WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -Purdue players Xavier Prien and Adam Liddell have announced they will transfer al'ter tho spring semester ends. 
Priee, a 6-foot-3 freshman from O'Fallon, Ill., played in 26 games and started live, averaging 3.1 points and 1. 7 rebounds. 
Liddell, a 6-7 redshirt freshman from DeKalb, Ind., scored live points and had 12 rebounds in 1 0 appear­anees during a 7-21 season for the Boilermakers. 
"Adam and Xavier have decided it's best to go in another direction with their eareors,'' incoming eoaeh Matt Painter said in a statement released Tuesday. "We've told both Adam and Xavier that we will assist them in finding a new place· to play basketball and eontinue their eduea­tion. We appreeiate their contribu­
... 
tions to our program and wish t.hom nothing_ hut t.lw host." 'Big t:at' retires 
NEW YOHK-Andros (;alarraga retired Tuesday af't.nr a subpar spring training with tlw Now York Mots, leaving him a honwr shy of 400 for his caroor. 
The 43-year-old f"irst basoman signod a minor league d11al with tlw Mnts in the ofTsoason after making his second sueeossful rnturn from non-llodgkin's lymphoma last soa­son. 
A live-time All-Star and two-time Gold Glove in a 19-yoar earner. Galarraga was hitting just. .2:~5 in 17 gamos for the Mots this spring, with three homo runs and seven HBis. The Big Cat would have likely bonn lnl't off New York's 25-man rost.nr when th11 team broke camp. 
"This is a sad day for me, hut I honestly felt it was tho right. t.imn to stop away," Galarraga said. "I just wasn't playing up to tlw expectations that I have sot li1r myself." 
--------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dallle suffers a heartbreaking 10-9 loss 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Editor 
The calendar may have said "Easter" this weekend, but it was more "like "Groundhog Day" for Notre Dame. 
For the second time this sea­son. the Irish (2-5, 0-1 confer­ence) rallied to tie the contest in the game's waning minutes, only to fall in overtime as the Notre Dame dropped a 10-9 heart­breaker to Boston College in its Big East opener in Waltham, Mass., Saturday afternoon. 
The Irish lost by the same score in overtime to No. 19 Vanderbilt three weeks ago on March 9in Nashville, Tenn. 
"I don't want to take anything away from Boston College. but I definitely felt like there were things that we did in our lack of execution that they were able to capitalize on," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "It was more our own mistakes." 
Trailing 9-8 with just 1 :07 on the clock, standout Irish attack Crysti Foote beat Eagle goal­keeper Tara McKennett for her first goal of the afternoon -to go along with a trio of assists ­to knot the game at 9-9 and send it to overtime. 
However, after leading most of the contest, Boston College wouldn't accept defeat. 
Katherine Wagoner's unassist­ed goal 26 seconds into the extra frame proved to be the differ­ence as Boston College moved to 1-1 in the Big East and 5-1 over­all on the year. 
"In the second three minutes of the overtime, we had five shots on goal, so it's not like we could­n't have won the game," Coyne said. "Crysti had a shot that we thought went in, but they didn't call it. We had our chances to win." 
The victory marked the first time in seven meetings that the Eagles have knocked off the Irish. 
The season-long tre(\d of falling behind early continued to plague the Irish Saturday. 
After the Eagles netted a pair of goals in the game's first four minutes for a quick 2-0 lead, Irish midfielder Lindsay Shaffer put visiting Notre Dame on the board seven minutes later. 
The Irish would find the back of the net only once more in the first half on a tally by attack Mary McGrath with 1:11 remain­ing in the half. 
The Eagles, on the other hand, posted four goals in the same span to take a 6-2 lead at the break and put the Irish in a familiar position this season ­behind. 
"We are spotting teams big leads in the first half. and then we make these furious come­backs. and we outscore people in the second half, but we give them too much of a cushion." Coyne said. "We're not coming out completely ready to play in the opening minutes of the game." 
Mirroring pre-vious games, despite the four-goal deficit, Notre Dame refused to roll over and hand the contest to Boston College. 
Beginning only 44 seconds into the second half, McGrath spear­headed an Irish uprising that saw Notre Dame net four consec­utive goals to tie the game 6-6 at the 7:47 mark. 
After McGrath drew the Irish within three with her second goal of the game, freshman mid­fielder Caitlin McKinney scored a pair of goals and attack Jackie Bowers finished off the run with her only goal of the game to even up the score. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
GIRLS' McDoNALD's ALL-AMERICAN GAME 
Rising stars to take the court 
Signee Lindsey Schrader is among players competing 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
The country's top women's 
basketball players take to the 
court at the Joyce Center 
tonight, one of whom will 
make Notre Dame her home 
next fall. 
Notre Dame signee Lindsey 
Schrader will give the home­
town crowd a glimpse into 
the future of Irish basketball 
in tonight's McDonald's All­
American High School 
Basketball game. 
"It's a thrill [for her] to 
make the team." Irish coach 
Muffet McGraw said of the 
top recruit. 
"To be here it's nice. first of 
all. that it's close to home, so her parents can come down, ·but just to be here at Notre Dame, with everyone around.. I think she's really excited 
about that." 
Schrader was recently 
named Ms .. Basketball in the 
state of Illinois after leading 
Bartlett High School to a sec­
ond place finish in the Class 
AA state tournament and a 
30-5 overall record. 
The Notre Dame signee is 
the only player from Illinois 
on the girls' roster for the 
game, and will play on the 
West team. . 
She is joined by 23 other 
pl.ayers: including some 
whom she will likely play 
against next season. 
Two of the All-Americans 
signed with Big East schools. After a disappointing end to with Connecticut landing this year's season last wnek, Saint Albans, W.Va .. native McGraw is excited to see Renee Montgomery and Schrader play in the Joyce Rutgers signing center Kia Center. as she will give a Vaughn out of the Bronx. N.Y. sneak p-eak into the future of 
Both  are set to  Irish basketball.  
play on the East  "It'll be nice to  
squad, and tonight will likely mark the  "It'll be nice to see her on our floor,  see her on our floor and what she looks like.  
first  of  many  and what she looks  because  she's  
match ups between the three Big East­bound seniors.  like, because she's someone we're really counting on  ~somebody we're really counting on to score [next season]." Mc­ 
But it is a Big 12 school that has the most  to score [next season]."  Graw "She's scorer.  said. a great She can  
McDonald's All- shoot the three.  
A m e r i c a .n s .  Muffet McGraw  she's got great  
Texas  has  Irish coach  hands,  she:s  

signed three of. the All-Amer­icans -point guard Erika Arriaran (Norco. Calif.). for­ward Crystal Boyd (North Little Rock, Ark.) and for­ward Earnesia Williams (Sapupla. Okla.). All three will play for the West team. 
But for Irish fans, Schrader is the main attraction. The 6-foot forward/guard averaged 22.1 points and 
10.3 rebounds as a senior, en route to her runaway Ms. Basketball award. She received 94 first place votes, 68 more than the first runner up, as voted oo by the media in Illinois. 
Schrader should play a key role for next year's Irish. Notre Dame loses leading scorer and All-American Jacqueline Batteast to gradu­ation after finishing 27-6 this year and falling to Arizona State 70-61 in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
tough, she's 
physical. .she's aggressive, and that's what this team needs." 
And so with Schrader mak­ing her first appearance on the home court of the Irish. McGraw is ready for the star senior to wear a Notre Dame uniform. 
"We're just anxious to get her in here and have her make that adjustm.ent to the college game that all. fresh­men have to go through." McGraw said. 
In 2002, current Irish jun­ior Courtney LaVere played in the game, winning the 2­ball competition with Irish forward Torin Francis of the men's team. 
The fourth annual girls' game is set to tip off at 5 
p.m. tonight at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

The Spring Run 
A Benefit for "Rebuilding Together with Christmas in April" 

Jill 10IIUNS •LUS 
J MILl ..... 

Saturday, April2, 2005
-
11:00 A.M. Race will begin at Legends 
Opens at 10:00 A.M. 
Refi·eshments & T -Shirts to all Finishers Register in Advance at RecSports $6.00 In Advance or $10.00 Day ofRace Advance Registration Begins 3/21, Ends@ 5:00p.m. 4/1 Student and Staff Divisions  


Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
No.9 Notre Dame enjoys its share of success .. 
Irish defeat Hofstra, Villanova; improve their record to 5-1 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associat< Sports Editor 
Tlw Easter weekend was a productive one for Notre Dame. as the Irish continued to show why they deserve to lw lht~ No. 9 ranked team in the country. 
The Irish defeated Hofstra 9-H in double overtime on Saturday and then came back to defeat Villanova 11-7 on Monday. improving their over­all record to 5-1 on the sea­son. 
Hofstra rallied from a two goal deficit with two minutes remaining to tic the score at eight, forcing the overtime against Notre Dame. 
The Irish prevailed when Pat Walsh scored his sixth goal of the game to break the stalemate. 
Walsh, who hails from Long Island. NY. also contributed an assist to commemorate his honwcoming. 
"I think we played really well at times. We played hard and we played gritty. and we played with determination down the stretch," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. 
Corrigan gave credit to his team for being able to fight back after giving up the game tying goal and win in over­time. 

"Things are tough. You are on the road in front of 4500 people and they scored the last three goals to tie it up and it's a perfect opportunity to fold if that's what you are made of, but our guys didn't do that and found a way to win the game." 
The Villanova game was a 
make up date from the March 8th contest, which was can­celled due to inclement weather. 
Nevertheless, the two teams had to deal with Mother Nature anyway, as conditions were not much better this time around. 
"It was a little warmer, but [there was I a torrential down­pour the whole game. 
''I've never been in condi­lions like that for the entire game." Corrigan said. 
In the midst of the rain, Jim Morrison led the Irish with four goals to keep the momentum in Notre Dame's favor. Colin Fatti and Matt Ryan also scored two goals each. 
The Irish jumped to a 8-2 lead to start the game, but were outscored 5-3 down the stretch. 
Corrigan had mixed feelings about the team's perform­ance. 
"There were times when we played really. really well," Corrigan said. 
"I thought most of the first half we were outstanding. In the second half, I think wP might havP felt a little bit like the game was done and Wt! can't afford to relax." 
,..
Playing with consistPncy is ~omnthing that Corrigan has stressed tlw importance of all season. 
The Irish have plenty of tal­ent, but carrying the same amount of intensity through­out a game is something that their coach maintains still needs improvement. 
"We've got to be more con­sistent. Coming out of the weekend I think that's the thing we have to realize, you've got to be consistent over 60 minutes. 
"You've got to continue to adjust throughout games because people adjust to you." 
Coming in to the gamP. Villanova had a 14-game win­ning streak at home. 
The Irish will travel to Hanover, New Hampshire this weekend to take on Dartmouth. The game will start at 2:30 p.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
.. 
O'Grady Latin American Literature Lecture 
Presents Two Events by the Acclaimed Chilean Author 
Diamela Eltit 
"DEL MITO AL MONSTRUO EN TRES NOVELAS CHILENAS" 5:00p.m. Wednesday, March 30th 2005 McKenna Hall Center for Continuing Education University of Notre Dame Reception to Follow 
Simultaneous Translation Provided of the lecture ­FROM MYTH TO MONSTER IN THREE CHILEAN NOVELS 
AN INTERVIEW WITH DIAMELA ELTIT 4:30p.m. Thursday, March 31st 2005 Department of Special Collections Theodore M. Hesburgh Library University of Notre Dame Reception to Follow 
.. 
-
... 
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
NO WpMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish shine, demonstrate potential in invites 
Madia wins the 5,000 meter race and Erigha records personal bests 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Two meets, one victory and -most importantly -six NCAA regional qualifications. 
So the stat line reads for the Notre Dame women's track team following one of the best weekends of the year for the squad. 
The Irish sent their best dis­tance runners to Palo Alto, Calif. this week­end to compete like Stanford with all of the competition," Madia said. "Winning that race tells me I'm in good shape at this point in the season. It was good to post a time this early in the year." 
Teammate Sunni Olding fin­ished less than a second behind Madia, rounding out an impres­sive 1-2 finish in a race that Coach Tim Connelly termed "NCAA l~vel competition." Both runners qualified for the NCAA regional meet with their times. Madia commented on the team­work between her and Olding. 
"Sunni has been amazing," she said. "She's a great training partner and a great friend. I think that since we run togeth­er everyday, we'll be able to push 
in the Stanford each other to
"Winning that race
Invitational, reach our goals." 
widely consid­tells me I'm in good Katie DeRusso 
ered one of the shape at this point also qualified for 
premier events the NCAA regional
in the season. It 
on the collegiate with a third-place track slate. was good to post a finish in the stee­Notre Dame's time this early in plechase. Junior runners shined high jumper
the year., 
as junior Stacey Cowan Stephanie Madia broke out of a triumphed over a Stephanie Madia recent slump by -field of 26 run­Irish distance runner clearing 1. 78 ners to win the meters. The jump 5,000-meter was Cowan's best race. Her time was the eighth in over a month and earned her best in the United States this a third place finish. season. Madia realized the sig­While distance runners were nificance of her accomplish­in California, sprinters and ment. hurdlers were in Waco, Texas "It was great to have an at the Dr. Pepper Invitational opportunity to run in a race hosted by Baylor University.
.. 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles anticipate crucial 111atch against Chicago 
Win over Maroons may earn team an invite to the Midwestern Meet 
By KATE SERYAK Sports Writer 
This afternoon the Belles will take on the University of Chicago Maroons in an impor­tant non-conference match. 
The team is vying for an invitation to the Midwestern Meet next weekend, and defeating Chicago could play an important role in the com­mittee's decision. 
Earlier this season, Chicago defeated Kalamazoo, a prime conference opponent for the Belles. 
If the Belles win today, they will add a decisive win to their record and will have indirectly defeated Kala­mazoo, an opponent they will not face until the end of the regular season. 
Last year, the Belles beat
.. 
Chicago in a close match. 
"We are really looking for­ward to playing. They will be really good competition," cap­tain Kristen Palombo said. 
The Belles haven't played kseryak@nd.edu
-


Fig. 1 
0 

Sophomore sprinter Maryann Erigha once again starred for the Irish. A week after winning the 200 meters at the Willie Williams Invitational, the soph­omore turned in personal best times in both the 100 and 200 meters. Her marks earned her a second-and third-place fin­ish, respectively, and qualified her for the regional meet in both events. 
The Irish now move on, rel­ishing their success this week­end, but also keeping in mind long-term goals. After her race, Madia was asked about goals for herself and the team this season. Her response showed the determination she and the rest of the Irish possess. 
"We want to win the Big East and qualify as many girls as we can for NCAAs," she said. "Last year I ran NCAAs but didn't run my best, partly because I felt like I didn't belong. This year, I want to feel like I belong at the championships, and we as team belong there." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 
• 

Tour Guide Manual. Page 241. 
\ Walking Backwards. 
I
0 \ 
The Office of 
Undergraduate Admissions is now I hiring tour guides 
I 
for the summer, fall, and spring. Applications ate available at 
admissions.nd.edu/ tourguide. pdf 
0 I 
• 
r or in 220 Main Building and are due April 8th. 
Questions? Contact Jill or Gabe at 631-7505 

any matches since spring break, when they traveled to Florida for a preseason tour­nament. 
Their match last week was cancelled due to weather con­ditions and is rescheduled for Thursday of this week. 
"We can't wait to play a match, we only hope that the good weather persists," Palombo said. 
"We have been doing a lot of conditioning training since spring break because its hard to get indoor court time and we can't play in 30-degree weather. So we are really looking forward to just play­ing." 
Although this Belles team is young, with sophomores hold­ing the No. 3-6 singles seeds, players have risen to the chal­lenge by starting the season off with a record of 3-4. 
"The match experience in Florida really helped the sophomores," Palombo said. 
"They are ready to go and anxious to play. They weren't seeded last year, so they are eager to get points for the team and get some wins under their belt." 
Contact Kate Seryak at 


Wednesday, March 30, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
ND SOFTBALL 
Home season opens with 2-1 Irish victory 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior StaiTWriler 
Carrie· Wisen showed she can win games with her bat as well as with her arm. 
With the Irish down to their final two outs and bohind 1-0 against Western Michigan, Wisen knocked home a two­HBI doubln to give Notrn Damn ( 14-H) a thrilling come-f'rom­bnhind vielory in its home opener Friday. 
"That was an interesting game. I think wn madn it morn interesting than it should have been," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf' said. "lWisPnl has rnally stnppnd up with the bat this ynar. Shn hits the ball right on thn nosn." 
Wisen. who has made several appearances this season as a rnlinf pitcher, lwlpnd take advantage of' a two-basn orror earlier in the inning. 
Bronco starter Tricia Vanderslik IPd oiT the bottom of' tlw sevPnth inning by n~t.iring Mnghan Huthraull' on a ground ball. Kalin Laing rnached on basn with a singln to right field to start Notre Dame's one-out rally. 
Liz Hartmann followed Laing and hit a ground ball up the middle that was fumbled by Western Michigan shortstop Danielle Daughtry. The ball skipped away into c1mtorliold, and both runners moved up a basn on thn play. 
BASEBALL 
Tean1 ain1s to in1press at hon1e 
By TOM DORWART Sports Wri tcr 
To tho avnragn lim, tlw biL'inball tnam's start to tlw season might seem sluggish and disappointing. 
But to tho knowlndgoable fan, Irish a.rn right on pacn I(Jr a strong SOiL'iOn. 
Through 22 games ol' Notn~ Dame's historic 2002 soa'ion, t.hn Irish owned a 12-10 rneord. From there, the Irish won :n of' 43 games on routn to tlw school's sne­ond-ever trip to ihn Collngn World 
Snries. ~ Through 22 gamos this smL'ion, tho Irish again are at 12-10. 
Winnnrs of thrnn of limr in Big East opening series against Georgntown and Seton I tall, the Irish hnadnd into hL'it night's eon­tnst against the Wnstnrn Michigan Broncos (5-I]) with eonlidtmcP. 
The Irish pitching stall' t.hrnw perhaps its bnst limr-gmne sl.rnkh of tho smL'ion in confnrm1en opPn­ers. Against Seton llall, tlw stall' combirwd for 1.12 EHA and sur­mndernd just tlm~t~ rw1s. 
The Easter wenknnd wins lnl't the Irish sitting tind atop thn Big Ea'it Conli.Jrence at 3-1. 
Game 1 vs. Georgetown ( 6-2, 7 innings) 
In tho first Thursday game against Cnorgntown, junior Tom Thornton (2-3) lirnballnd a gem, · • extending thn Irish's winning strnak against Gnorgnt.own to 24 games. I le W<L'i onP out away fhun a shutout in tlw 6-2 Irish win. 
Game 2 vs. Georgetown (8-9, 12 Innings) 
Thn lloya'i rallimt lilr a 9-H win in the nightcap -a 12-inning, :J­hour-54-minul!~ marathon -to end nine seasons of frustration against tim Irish. Tho t1~mns eom­bined for :n hits in the slugf'nst. Closer Byan Dohorty sullim~d his first loss ofthn sea'ion for thn Irish. Game 3 vs. Seton Hall (8-2, 7 Innings) 
Sophomore Jnff' Samardzija lillmnd night Snton llall battnrs liJr a eomplntn-gamn vkl!Jry. Thn Irish " usod a thrnn-run lill.h to jump out to an R-0 lnad on tho Piral!~s. Game 4 vs. Seton Hall (4-1) 
Follow sophomore Dnrik OIVI'Y continund tho stellar pitching li1r the Irish. lin only f'aend I H Pirat!• batters through five innings. Senior Matt Edwards eontimwd hi'i hot-hitting with an HBI doubln ­in the sixth inning. lin extended his hitting strnak to nine gamns. Alex Nnttny is riding iUl 11-gamo hitting strnak. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
Pinch runner Nicole Wicks replaced Hartmann at second base, and both Wicks and Laing came around to score after Wisen drilled a line-drive doublo down the left field line that just stayed fair -landing on the chalk line and rolling into tho corner. 
Wisen's walk-off double spoiled an impressive pitching performance for Vanderslik, who had retirod 1 0 consecutive batters before Laing's single in the sovonth. Vanderslik only allowed four hits to the Irish, striking out two batters. 
"IVanderslik) did a nice job of pladng tho ball and hitting her spots," Gumpf said. "Early in tho game, we didn't take advantage of our opportunities and would hit it right at people. 
"But she had a good change­up working and really did a niee job of kneping us off bal­anee." 
SteiTany Stenglein pitched the tirst three innings of the game for the Irish, allowing one run and three hits before boing roplaend by Heather Booth. Booth nntornd thn game and shut down the Broneos the rest of tho way, allowing just two hits in her l'our innings ol' work. 
"IStengleinl was giving up more hits than she usually does and was getting called for some debatable illegal pitches, so I wanted to do something to c·.hangn up tho momentum," Gum pi' said. 

to third. 
Notre Dame will be back in action today with a double­header at Ivy Field against Valparaiso. 
"I want to see us go out and dominate somebody." Cumpf' said ol' the doublehnador. "Wo need to go out there and get after it early and not lot up. I want to see us make things happen." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Western Michigan took a one-run lead in tho top or the third inning, with Amy Fleming loading oi'J' with a double to right field. Fleming was replaced by pinch runner Corey Andrezjewski, who advanced to third on an illegal pitch by Stenglein and came around to score on Connie Kolokithas' one-out HBI single. 
Stenglein worked out of' the inning with no further damage, striking out Daughtry and get­ting Vanderslik to ground out 
An Evening of Prayer from Around tbe World 
Please join us for an evening of 
Christian Taize Prayer 
as part ofa series exploring the beliefs andpractices ofthe world's great faith traditions. 
• 
Thursday, March 31, 2005 330 Coleman-Morse Center 7-7:45 pm 
Sponsored by: Graduate Student Union, ND Muslim Student Association, International Student Services & Activies, and Campus Ministry. 

Irish Baseball and Softball BE THERE! 
Wednesday, March 30th '1ft. 
--------------------------~~------------
----------------~------------------------~ 
Softball Doubleheader vs.
Baseball vs. Chicago State Valparaiso
5:05PM 4 PM and 6 PM 
-
~. ~~·· \.. @ Frank Eck Stad;:.:.i:.:um..:..:.._....liiliiiiiiiiiilillillill--..._____, 
@Ivy Field
j { J
· .... Y 
Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for all of the latest promotional information 

page 28 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
Irish knock off pair of Big Ten team_s 
[finish in this year's NCAA Championships] wasn't really
Weathers 
cutting it. continued from page 32 
"One of the things [Athletic Director] Kevin White said to women's swimming at Notre us as freshmen was that he Dame." wanted all of our teams to be 
The team learned of the No.1." decision Tuesday afternoon in During his tenure, Weathers a meeting with two athletic led the Irish to an 86-20 dual directors, Irish swimmer Katie meet record and was named Carroll said, and many· swim­Big East Conference coach of mers left with mixed feelings. the year six times. Notre 
"I think the team was Dame also scored points in the shocked that it came right NCAA Championship meet now," Carroll said. every year Weathers was at 
Weathers would not com­the helm. ment further on the reasoning Weathers had previously behind his decision when con­coached two seasons at tacted by The Observer Southern Illinois and three at Tuesday night. South Carolina. While with the 
However, several swimmers Gamecocks, Weathers was a had their own opinions on the three-time Metro Conference matter. Coach of the Year. 
"The morale hadn't been But Notre Dame will always what it was in the past, and I be special to the coach. think the athletic directors "I really enjoyed NO a lot, I noticed that," Carroll said. really loved the kids I had an 
Sophomore Jess Stephens opportunity to coach," echoed Carroll's thoughts on Weathers said Tuesday night. the team's morale this year. "I look forward to watching "If this is what's best for the them do well in the future." team as a whole then this is For now, the Irish are look­what needs to happen," ing ahead, and seem opti­Stephens said. mistic about the future. 
While the announcement "I think that people definite­came as a shock to some, ly are looking forward to a some swimmers acknowl­change to bring some new life edged hearing rumors about and change to the team," Weathers' fate with the Healey said. University. There is no word yet as to a 
"We kind of saw it coming," replacement for Weathers, but senior Georgia Healey said. in some eyes he might "Bailey had mentioned some­not ever be replaced. thing about it, and there were "I know that we [the teaml rumors about it, but no one wish him well. We only hope was completely sure." for the best for him, and we 
"I think he needed some­know that's what he wants for thing different in his life to us," Carroll said. inspire him," Healey added. "I think he was under a lot of Contact Mike Tennant at pressure, and the 24th place mtennant@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Sports Writer 
One loss to a Big Ten team is quite enough, thank you. 
Bouncing back from a tough loss to Illinois in their last.match, the Irish made plenty of noise over the Easter weekend at the expense of two other Big Ten teams. 
After clinching a 5-2 victory against No. 56 Michigan (10-6) at home on Saturday, No. 20 Notre Dame (15-5) brushed past No. 68 Purdue (3-9) with a 7-0 sweep in West Lafayette on Monday. 
After this weekend's action, Notre Dame improved to 6-1 against Big Ten opponents on the season. Their sole defeat came at the hands of No. 3 Illinois. 
"WE! play the best teams in the Big Ten, traditionally," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "It's a good measuring stick for us because, geographically, we're in the center of the Big Ten, and it's easy to schedule. It makes a lot of sense, and they're all good programs. 
"We're very happy to get that quality of schedule without actu­ally being in the Big Ten Conference." 
On Saturday, the Irish contin­ued their annual rivalry against the Wolverines. Notre Dame has beaten Michigan the last nine times the teams have met on Irish turf. This time was no dif­ferent, as the win streak was pushed to 10 in a row. 
"That's always a spirited 
match," Bayliss said. "It's a nice, healthy, competitive rivalry between two schools that have had a lot of success in numerous sports over the years. You feel the electricity in the air when you warm up to play Michigan. It really means something." 
The Irish found themselves in an early hole as their revamped doubles lineups dropped the match's closely contested first point. Despite also falling behind in three first set singles matches, the team bounced back well and won five of the six individual contests. 
After the Irish evened the team score at 1-1, sophomore Stephen Bass gave the Irish the lead with a win over No. 81 Matko Maravic in a 6-2, 4-6, 6-4 upset. The vic­tory gave Bass his fourth win this season over a nationally-ranked opponent and improved his career mark to 14-2 in three-set matches. 
"Stephen Bass really deserves a lot of credit because Maravic had just beaten one of the best players in the country the week­end before at LSU," Bayliss said. "We have a lot of respect for him. All of [Michigan's] guys played well against us. I was particular­ly proud of the way Irackli [Akhvlediani] fought and dug out his match against Steve Peretz. In general, we played pretty darn well." 
Although he dropped the first set of his match 6-2, Akhvlediani clinched the match for Notre Dame with a 2-6, 6-2, 7-5 win over Michigan's Steve Peretz at the No. 5 slot. 
Shuffiing their doubles lineup dramatically, the Irish had mixed results over the weekend but showed flashes of potential. Although the team dropped the doubles point against Michigan, they placed well against the Boilermakers and picked up the early 1-0 advantage. 
Irish duos Brent D'Amico and Eric Langenkamp and Ryan Keckley and Barry King posted doubles victories at the No. 1 and No. 2 spots, respectively. 
The 7-0 shutout match against the Boilermakers was a fairly quick one that saw the Irish claim five of the singles matches in straight sets. D'Amico was the first player to register a singles victory, defeating Sounak Chatterjee in a quick 6-2, 6-2 decision. 
Akhvlediani again clim~hed the match victory for Notre Dame against Purdue, posting a 6-2, 6­3 victory against Jarred Leibner. 
"I·Ie's been a pretty big rock for us this year," Bayliss said. "You better bring your lunch against Irackli because you're going to be out there a long time if you plan on beating him. He keeps the ball deep and he hits big ofl' the ground. He's come probably the greatest distance of all our players in the last year." 
Notre Dame's next challenge will come from No. 44 Southern Methodist in an. outdoor show­down next Sunday. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
are you ready ·lor [ B season? 
buy your titkets Marth 31st @ LaFortune box ollite lor the April 24th t!ame vs. Pitt! (1:20 start time).... 
titkets $15, limited titkets available! 
lor ND students only, t titket per ND id, you tan brine up to 2ND id's $15 intludes the round trip bus to Wrigley. Must take bus to attend the game! 
SPONSORED BY SDB SERVI(ES 

-
brought to you by the student union board. sub.nd.edu 


,
Wednesday, March 30, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
Edwards 
continued from page 32 
run!. I think the wind lw Ipnd i t a IittIe b i t, " sai d l·:dwards, who has nine home runs and :~5 HBI in 22 games this snason. "I was pretty sure the other two were good." 
Edwards hit a solo blast in the first to give the Irish a 1-0 lt1ad. II is rwxt bomb was a two-run shot in the third before he added insurance runs with a three-run smash in the snventh that clnared thn "Frank lick Stadium" sign in loll finld. 
"You can watch a lot ol' games in baseball and never see a guy locked in that way," Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri said. 
Freshman lefthander Wade · Korpi threw five quality innings to earn his second victory of the season, yielding just a three-run homer in the fourth to the Bronco's Tony Sehel'f'ler. Korpi struck out throe, walked two and allowed just six base hits. 
"I thought Wade Korpi was phenomenal," Mainieri said. "That was the Wade Korpi we recruited. lie changed speeds great, and he got ahead ol' hitters." 
Dan Kapala pitched 2 21:~ innings and gave up two runs, Mike I>ury added zero runs in 
Irish third baseman Matt Edwards looks a pop-up Into his glove Tuesday night. Edwards hit three home runs In Notre Dame's 9-5 win over Western Michigan. 
11:~ inning and Hyan Dohnrty closed the door on Western Michigan with a scoreless ninth. 
Western Michigan starter Derek Schlecker took the loss after pitching three innings and surrendering four earned runs. The Broncos, who haven't played a home game yet this season, dropped to. 5­11. 
Leading 1-0 in the third, the Irish took command of the game with a three-run inning. Shortstop Greg Lopez and centerfielder Alex Nettey both singled to put men on the cor­ners with zero outs. Freshman second baseman Brett Lilley fell behind two strikeouts before choppy a grounder to the right side of the infield, which scored Lopez and advanced Nettey into scoring position. Edwards then blasted home run No. 2 to give the Irish a 4-0 advantage. 
After Scheffler's home run in the top of tho fourth, the Irish added a run in the bot­tom of the fifth. Down in the count 0-2. Nettey was hit by a pitch and advanced to second on Lilley's fiel-der's choice. Edwards was intentionally walked before Matt Bransfield smoked a sharp single through the left side, scoring Nettey and putting Notre Dame ahead 5-3. 
Nettey added an HBI single in the ninth and finished with two hits, three runs and an RBI. 
With the victory, Notre Dame has now won five of its last six, including four in a row. 
"I feel like we're playing better baseball," Mainieri said. "The pitching is better, which is the big thing. We've been pretty efficient." 
The Irish face a dreadful 0­24 Chicago State squad at 
5:05 p.m. today at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Freshman Joey Williamson, who has six appearances this season, will make his first career start for Notre Dame. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Weis, it was the laek of n~la­tively unknown players that
Spring 
stepped up and made the coaching staff take notic11
continued from page 32 
Tuesday. raise their expectations "The biggest problem I had because it just isn't good today was not seeing enough 
•
enough. They get the message, people that I don't know that and I think that's the important much about making statenwnts thing." for themselves," Weis said. "If 
Sophomore wide receiver .Jeff I'm going to have this open Samardzija fully expects the door policy where everyone Irish to deliver on Weis' has a fair ehance to make a demands. name for themselves, you'd 
"He's a straightforward guy like some people to stand out." -he tells you what he thinks, With Notre Dame sp ri n•g and he tells you what he practice oiTieially underway, wants," Samardzija said. "lie the next step is simply to build expects to get that from his on what has been aecom­players, and we expect to give plished the day before. that to him." "We set thn bar, and now we 

DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer 
THE INSTITUTE FOR ETHICAL BUSINESS WORLDWIDE 
I nvitcs you to an open lecture 
by 
In I997, Mr. Anderson decided to make Interface "the first fully sustainable industrial enterprise, anywhere." The company has reduced its environmental footprints by more than one t hird, redesigned processes and pro ducts, pioneered new technologies and reduced or eliminated waste and harmful emissions while increasing the use of renewable materials·and sources of energy. 
March 31, 2005 4:30p.m. 
While practice may have started on the wrong foot, Weis was ultimately encouraged by what he saw on both sides of the ball. 
Specifically, Weis was pleased to see a more holistic, team­oriented defensive style that the new coaching staff has emphasized. 
"The number one thing I saw on defense -one of the things that [defensive coordinator[ Rick [Minter] and the defensive staff were trying to stress ­was getting 11 guys running to the ball," Weis said. "I really think that shows one major step towards being an unselfish defense where instead of look­ing to highlight and grandstand and pointing out to the crowd that you made a play, let's go party with your teammates ­that was very refreshing to see." 
In addition to positive signs on the defensive side of the ball, a number of offensive players provided cause for optimism. 
llowever, Weis cautioned that spring practice -especially the first day -is a little differ­ent than Saturday afternoon. 
"There were several skills guys that I was both intrigued by and excited about that I've seen out there," Weis said. "But this is in shorts without pads on, so I'm trying not to do cartwheels." 
If there was one major source of disappointment for 
have a long ways to go," Irish offensive eoordinator Michael Haywood said. "That bar is a little low right now, but with the kids' attitudes and expeeta­tions, I think we can raise it up eaeh and every day we go out to praetice." 
Notes 
+ Three Irish playnrs -run­ning back .Justin Hoskins. defensive end Honald Talley and offensive guard James Bonelli -did not participate Tuesday. 
"As of this time, they're not participating with us for violat­ing team rules -that's as far 
as I_ 'm ~oin~ to ~o .~it I~ that subject, Wets satd. We II see how that goes at a later date." 
+ Weis said that Bon Powlus, the dirnctor of personnel dnvnl­opment, will be substituting for assistant head coach David Cutclil'f'e during spring prac­tice. Cutdiffn is at home recov­ering from heart surgery. 
"I went to the NCAA, and I applied to add a ninth guy onto the field so that I could have somebody that could help mon­itor the quarterbacks," Weis said. "I felt that the guys after [starting quarterback Brady! Quinn would not get much coaching if I was spending all my time with Quinn. The NCAA granted that relief -that will be the ease throughout the entire spring." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March \ 30, 2005 

Zeller 
continued from page 32 
Plymouth in the Indiana Class 3A state championship game, 74-72. 
Zeller is one of 24 players selected to participate in the 28th annual Boys McDonald's All-American game at Notre Dame's Joyce Center tonight (8 p.m., ESPN). He will com­pete on the West team. 
"It will be great to have him as a representative for us on our floor," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. 
The other representative for the state of Indiana is Josh McHoberts, a 6-foot-10, 235-pound power forward from Carmel High School in 
Carmel,  Ind.,  headed  for  
Duke.  
Three  colleges  (Duke,  

Kansas and North Carolina) are tied for the most future players on the McDonald's All-American Team with three each. Oklahoma State and Washington both have two recruits on the team. 
Jack Keefer of Lawrence North High School in Indianapolis, Ind., will coach the East team. 
MCDONALD'S ALL-AMERICAN HIGHSCHOOL BAS ·BALL GAMES 
WHEIUl: 
NOTRE DAME JOYCE CENTER 
WHEN: ·(;IRlS AT S;OO P.M. 
•B *.·.··..~. .JJJ4t.. E
"'··.·
'tww• m 
RADIO: 
WSRT (960 AM} 
TElEVJSJON: ESPN ·GIRlS: TAPE·UELAY, S:OO PM THURSDAY ·BOYS: BROAOCASTED UVE 
GRAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic 
Coach Morgan Wootten, who won 1,274 games as the head coach of Dematha High School in Hyattsville, Md., is the chairman of the McDonald's All-American Selection Committee. 
Wootten, who coached Brey as a player and whom Brey coached under as an assis­tant before leaving for Duke, was responsible this year for selecting Zeller and 23 other players from a field of more than 1,500 nominees. 
UCLA coach John Wooden will serve as the chairman of the game. 
All net proceeds from the 2005 McDonald's All­American Game will benefit the Ronald McDonald House Charity of South Bend and Fort Wayne, Ind. In jts histo­ry, the game has raised near­ly $4 million. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Record 
continued from page 32 
year. Benninger's time of 13 minutes, 
33.05 seconds was made even more incredible by the fact that it was the first time he had run the 5,000 meters. Benninger won the race with a six-second cushion over his nearest competitor and broke Luke Watson's old Notre Dame record by two seconds. 
Head Coach Joe Piane was understandably impressed. 
"It was wonderful. He was under control the whole time. lie ran the first two miles in 4:24 each and then ran the third in 4:12," Piane said. 
The 5,000-meter run is equiva­lent to roughly 3.1 miles. 
In addition to Benninger, the Irish men saw several others attain NCAA regional qualifying marks at the Stanford meet. 
Kaleb Van Ort won the 10,000 meters in 28:59.35. Tim Moore arrd Todd Mobley finished behind · Van Ort in the 10,000 but also posted times that qualifi11d for the regional meet. Todd Ptaeek and Ryan Johnson also qualified for the 3,000-meter steeplechase. 
Senior Selim Nurudeen got a rare opportunity for a student­athlete -the chance to go home over Easter break as he compet­ed in the Dr. Pepper Invitational at Baylor University in Waco, Texas. 
Nurudeen,who is from Friendswood, Texas, won the 110-meter high hurdles in 13.92 seconds and finished third in the 200-meter dash in 21.53. 
Coach Piane said that he was satisfied with the number of qualifying times his team achieved this weekend, but stressed that there was work to be done, saying that he hoped the team would qualify around 25 athletes for the regionals. He was, however, pleased with what he saw this weekend. 
"There were a Jot of guys that ran well -it was a very exciting day," he said. 
Friday and Saturday the Irish will be competing at the Indiana Helays in Bloomington on the campus of Indiana University. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 
also gave the 6-foot-11, 240­pound center the Arthur L. Trester mental attitude award. . 
Brey had the opportunity to watch his recruit play in the Semi-state round on March 19, when Zeller faced anoth­
er Irish 
AI Rhodes of 
prospect -Logansport, committed Ind.-, High football School will recruit and coach Zeller's defensive West squad. lineman 
The Irish Patrick Kuntz. recruit will Brey said he headline .the was mo.re team after than satisfied completing a with what he near triple­saw in a 51­double per­46 Washing­formance at ton win over Canseco Fieldhouse of 27 Roncalli High School. points, nine rebounds and a "It's a four-and-a-half hour State Finals-record 11 drive back from Seymour, assists. Indiana," Brey said. "But I 
The Indiana High School was smiling the whole way Athletic Association (IHSAA) home." 

Rctin• the Rel'tJ!utitm, Ret•ive the Spirit! 
_____...................-..-· 
How the Media Told the Story ofPope.]ohn and the Council 
Kenneth Woodward Contributing Editor at Newsweek 
Wednesday, March 30, 2005, 7:30 p.m. Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College Campus Free and open to the public 
A lecture co-sponsored by the Center for Spirituality and the Department of ()ommunica.tion Studies, Dance, ;wd Theatre 

-
-
STUDENT AIRFARES /M STUDY ABROAD 
Whether you're headed abroad straight from campus or from home, StudentUnlverse.com has the lowest airfares to the places where students are studying abroad this summer. 
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from Chicago to: 

• StudentUniverse.com 
T~-f:l!fWfss~ etAAo'&Nt!l'!:~¢1'<ool\00pn:q"m~m l WJ>j1f,m;:~:'l'~,epp1~ l:r!J~IYf! d&lmd~ ~~!13m we'~m1Yfl~IWI':If8:..1 ~.800Jnd<.R1~~ St!J®I'l11JI¥'1Q!'SCI"'Nieu ttl& <ISS: F'atll:S d~Pl&'~ ro.lJSd~OOiV.:.<V>:lt ar~ to :)~&~1hMt!l~> 200 {~i)t ltli<' ua ~X.¢41' IJSiC~OOM~t-rsdci:M:, 1'1'~4 us 1"m~!:ti101'l ~ CX!ltsrtli¥M-~Ik$'1tf'J, ~S1,l~WlhRJ!irltlt.Wj l1rld~e-oc,l II"R.::l00@ f'~s;jsp:l<:lywj If) a!: d!f'IW~~Ikm!I:C¢ trn ~'WX~ ('!lnij ~ \flaltSWOOniJ.Jiii~:OOmfof~DEQfUII*I f'*fft:.a/.~rSatC;<*.'~P{<ll!df.tc¥'lQJ:i:WltOO$ri®oo "' ..., 

Wednesday, March 30, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
KARL, YOU'RE A 
UM ...
I'VE NEVER. LIED IN
HABITUAL LIAR BUT 
ARE YOU
MY LIFE, BUT I CANT
TH£5£ PILL5 THAT I 
ALIVE?
R.E5I5T FREE
ORDERED OVER THE 
5TUFF.
INTERNET WILL CUR.£ NEVER. YOU. FELT BETTER.!
/
/ 
CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
TELOX 

rJ 
1 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~~'fl [) 
VISNAH 
WHE:N HE:R HAIR RE:TURN£:0 TD ITS NATURAL. C.OL..OR,
I I I 
www.Jumble.corn 
SHE: WE:NT BAC.K 
ro--­
I 
BROTED ± Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I I r J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer 
here: rI I J(III I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: KNOWN HUMAN OSSIFY BESIDEYesterday's I 
Answer: What she got when he took her shopping ­HIS MONEY 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 American Revolutionary ­
1 Fraternity letter 
portraitist 4 Battery contents 34 Illegal act, in 8 Oldtime actress slang Todd 35 Capote's least favorite road
14 Personal 
sign? 15 Goof off 
39 Olympus 1s Attack competitor 
11 Stop on it 40 "I'm in!" 41 Just
18 No neatnik 42 "Noble" element 
19 Anxiety 43 Woven fabrics 
20 Cartier's 48 Narc'sChristmas employer: Abbr.
creation? 49 Fall from grace
23 In any way 50 12 chimes 
24 Stat for Sammy 
51 Songbird's ·
Sosa 
lament? 25 Thimblerig thing 
57 Sounded like a 21 Meal Persian 
58 Point to the leave the ivied right halls: Abbr. 59 Driver's org. 
31 Subcompact so Shed 
ao Ones soon to 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

s1 Shade of green 62 Comic strip cry 
sa Didn't go straight 64 Scored the same 
65 Like few counties nowadays 
DOWN 1 Drink at the 
Duke's Head 2 Deviate 3 Completely 
committed 4 Likewise 5 Massage target 
for a runner s Popular shirt 
maker 1 Actress Mazar a All g City on the 
Hong River 10 Tied 
11 Absolute 
12 "Le Cid" composer 
13 Got the fare down 
21 Chapter of history 
22 Collar 
26 Run on TV 
2a Hand measure 
29 Hue New Year ao Swings around 31 Wild West 
33 Big name in fashion 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

34 Montana Indian 42 Prepared for 
action 
35 Johnny Unitas 53 Play Shylock wore it 44 Gerund maker 
54 Hideaway as Norman's home 45 Lit 
55 Man, but not 37 Diminutive, as a 46 More protracted woman dog 
47 Sly 56 Be hot and aa Rug rat bothered 
49 Computer 39 Silent honcho 57 Miss after agreement Wozniak marriage 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Carradinc, Jesse Jackson, Paul Hogan. Sigourney Weaver, Chevy Chase 
Happy Birthday: Don't deviate from what you know and do wcll. Others may try to lead you astray, hut if you arc true to yourself and your beliefs, you should be able to stay on course. Your numbers: 2, 15. 21, 33, 47. 4lJ 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will find it difficult to get the rest you require. A long. quiet walk by yourself or a drive in the country may just do the trick and help you avoid the trouble brewing at home. *** TAURUS (AJ>ril 20-May 20): Travel should be encouraged. You will IlL' in a high-energy mode, and you must have an outlet if you wish to accomplish the most. Someone close to you may need help.***** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Your high energy and competitive nature will put you in the driver's scat. Go after your goals and don't let others hold you hack. Don't get involved in joint financial ventures. ** CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Proceed down new avenues. Sign up for courses if you are having a problem keeping a job. Pinancial problems arc causing friction at home. You may have to settle for a job you don't want to take. **** 
LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You can expect those you live with to have thl'ir own ideas about how they want things done around the house. Don't argue; just work on your own space and avoid getting into heated debates. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Introduce yourself to new people who arc attending the same functi<om that you arc. If you arc interested in someone you meet, don't be shy: ask him or her out. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You won't have too much luck trying to keep things harmonious on the home front. Don't be too disheartened; make plans to go out with friends who appreciate your company. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nnv. 21): In-laws will have good suggestions, hut if you Jet them interfere with your personal life, you will live to regret it. Solve your problems on your own and tell your relatives when all is said and done. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You can make money, but someone is likely to talk you out of it as fast as you make it. You should consider making a move. Real estate investments look positive. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): You must try to get along with your partner. You haven't been seeing things in the same light for some time now. Do a hit of backtracking, and you'll find that you arc both to blame. ***** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. II!): You must plan those career moves that you've been contemplating for the longest time now. You know what your monetary goals are, so focus on what you have to do in order to reach them. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-Mnrch 20): Turn your attention to hobbies and creative endeavors that give you pleasure. You may want to teach children some of the unique skills you've developed. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have a good sense of who you arc and what your capabilities arc. You're advanced in your thinking and willing to work hard to realize your aspirations. You are skillful with your response to those who challenge you. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvicc.com and cugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State ______ Zip.__________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, March 30, 2005 
page 32 
FOOTBALL 
A fresh start 
Weis aggressive as Irish begin spring practice drills 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Ediror 
Reflecting the optimism that accompanied both unusually warm weather and the start of a new season, Notre Dame football officially kicked off its 2005 campaign with its first spring practice Tuesday afternoon at Cartier Field. 
It didn't take long for the demanding style characteristic of new Irish head coach Charlie Weis to emerge -the first group ran the first play of the afternoon three consecutive times before Weis was satisfied. 
"I thought we started out slow -I think that the effort level was very good, but my expectations for execution early on are very high," Weis said. "Right from the beginning, if you just let a rep go by without trying to cor­reet it, you're sending the wrong message." 
Weis stressed that while he asks a lot from his players -even on the first day of spring practiee -the players understand the inten­tions behind the aggressive approach. 
"I think that the number one thing is for the players to know that you're not being conde­seending and demeaning," Weis said. "I think that's important that they know when you're getting on them, you're getting on them to 
see SPRING/page 29 

MEN'S TRACK 
Benninger sets new SK record 
Sophomore runs race in thirdjastest time worldwide this year 
By JOHN EVERETT Sports Writer 
While most students were cele­brating the Easter holiday and the four-day weekend it provid­ed, the Irish were giving them­selves other reasons to be joyful while competing in two separate meets in different areas of the country. 
The most exciting performance by a Notre Dame runner was at the Stanford Invitational, where sophomore Kurt Benninger not only broke the Notre Dame record in the 5,000 meters, but also recorded the third-fastest time worldwide in the event this 
see RECORD/page 30 
McDoNALD's ALL-AMERICAN GAMES 
All-stars descend on Joyce Center 
Notre Dame recruit Zeller named to the East team's roster 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Common knowledge says the McDonald's All-American High School Basketball Game is an annual national stage for the country's elite high 
.school play­ 
ers to show­ 
case  their  See Also  
skills.  "Rising stars to  
If common knowledge  take the court"  
holds  true,  page24  
then  Luke  

Zeller should have the option of sitting this one out. 
One of four recruits commit­ted to Notre Dame for next fall, Zeller already showcased his skills last weekend. The Washington High School sen­ior canned a buzzer-beating 3-pointer from just inside half 
Photo courtesy of The Washington Times-Herald court Saturday night to beat Irish recruit Luke Zeller takes a shot for Washington High School this season. Zeller was named a McDonald's All-American. see ZELLER/page 30 

BASEBALL 
Edwards slugs tean1 to victory 
Third baseman hits three home runs to pace ND in 9-5 win 
By JOE HETTLER Senior Staff Writer 
Matt Edwards' first home run Tuesday against Western Michigan needed a gusting wind to clear the left center­!ield fence. 
Credit his See Also next two to pure power. 
"Team aims to N o r impress at
t e Dame's third 
home"
baseman fin­ished 3-for-3 page 27 with three home runs, six HBI's and two intentional walks in leading the Irish (12-10) past Western Michigan 9-5 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"I just missed Ithe first home 
see EDWARDS/page 29 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Weathers 
•
resigns as head coach 
By MIKE TENNANT Sports Wrirer 
Head women's swimming coach Bailey Weathers resigned Tuesday, leaving the Irish program after 10 winning seasons and nine straight Big East titles. 
In a press release issued Tuesday by the Notre Dame Sports Information Department, Weathers cited both his and the University's need for a change. 
"We've had a nice run for the last decade, and now I think it's time for something new, both for me and for the program," Weathers said in the release. ''I'm ready for a different challenge and I think the timing is right for someone new to come in and see where they can take 
see WEATHERS/page 28 
en 
MEN'S TENNIS 
NO SOFTBALl 
WOMEN'S TRACK 
MEN'S lACROSSE
SMC TENNIS 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
u.l 
Saint Mary's vs.
1--
c.,) ND 5, Michigan 2 
Notre Dame 2, 
ND 9, Hofstra 8 
Boston Colle§e 10, 
Team ~lifies six 
z ND 7, Purdue 0 
W. Michigan 1 
for NC regionals 
Chicago 
ND 11, Villanova 7 
Notre Dame 
-..­

::5 
The No. 9 Irish have
The Irish rebounded 
Carrie Wisen's
= Stephanie Madia was 
A victory for the 
The team fell behind 
seventh-inning two-RBI 
the highlight of the 
Belles would help the 
now won four games in 
from their March 17 loss 
early against the Eagles, 
-=1: 
team earn an invitation 
a row after breaking
to No. 3 Illinois by 
double helped the Irish 
weekend, winning the 
eventually losing in 
5,000 meter run at the 
to the Midwestern Meet 
Villanova's 14-game 
overtime on the road. 
=: kiwcking off a pair of 
come from behind to 
next weekend. 
Big Ten teams. 
win. 
Stanford Invitational. 
home winning streak. 
page 26
page 28 
page 27 
page 26 
page 25 
page 24 






