. 
' 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
STUDENT SENATE 
Potential activity fee increase faces scrutiny 
effects and implementing last year's popular Collegn Readership Program. 
Academic Affairs committee chair Chris Ilarris said the stu­dent activities fee has not kept pace with in!lation or tuition hikes in recent years, forcing Student Union dubs and organi­zations to deal with increasing costs and make sacrifices. 
"Clubs have lost approximate­ly eight dollars over the past 
see SENATE/page 4 

Masses develop identity, loyal following 

By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
A plan to increase student activities fees elicited both sup­port and warnings at Wednesday's Student Senate meeting. 
The Aeademie All'airs commit­tee's proposal to increase fees to $95 for the 2006-07 academic year, a $15 jump from the cur­rent $80 lee, has a twofold pur­pose of combating inflation 
Dorm masses anchor students' spirituality 
By KAITLYNN REILY 
Nt·ws Wriwr 
l·:ach Sunday, sounds hoard Pnmnaling from rnsidnncn halls on rampus t.akn on a diiTnrnnt tmw from thosn usually lward in a rollngn dorm, a<; studnnl<; attnnd MlL<;S(~S om~rnd in each dorm. 
.Junior Ann Flins lives in l'asqtwrilla WPst Ilall, but nvnry otlwr wn<~k slw att<mds Mass at SiPgfrind llall ratlwr than at her own dorm. Slw said this is partly liw t.hn musk snlnrtions, but also lwrausn she llnjoys the service oiTnrPd by Singfriml's rngular prinst and r<~clor Father John Conlny. 
"Tiwrn is mom camaradnrio at tho dorm Masstls," Flins said. "You know nvnryone thorn, as opposnd to at homo when you just know your family and family 
see ND MASS/page 4 

FACULTY SENATE 

Burish all ears while faculty voice concerns 
By MADDIE HANNA Assoriart• Nrws Ediwr 
As part of his ongoing ell'orts to got to know thn Notrn Damn farulty, University provost Thomas Burish started building a ndationship with Faculty Snnatn at the group's Wndrwsday night nwnting. 
Burish, who came to the mnnting to lnarn about Faculty SPrJat<~ and s1wk its input on isstws lw previously idnntilied as important, said hn wanted to nstahlish long-term communiea­tion with tlw group. 
"So !tonight! I would like mostly to listnn," Burish said. 
lin took notes before respond­ing to comments or concerns about the direction of the 
University and advice on how 
hn should proennd in his duties 
as Notrn Dame's nnw provost. 
Topics that generated the 
most discussion were dnpart­
rnnnt funding, interdiseiplinary 
work and graduatn research. 
"One thing we've stayed away 
from is anything having to do 
with budgets," Faculty Snnatn 
chair Seth Brown said. "The 
faculty lrnernbersl have little 
say in budget issues." 
Burish acknowlndged budget · dillkulties as a universal prob­lnrn faced by all universitiPs. 
"I know the University's gone 
through some hard times," 
Burish said. "And I know you 
can't do more with less." 
Burish said in addition to 
see FACULTY/page 8 


Saint Mary's offers variety of liturgies 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Ma1y's Editor 
While elassmatns hurried by in the corridor and a nearby television blarod MTV. seven Saint Mary's students gathernd in tho relative quiet of Our Lady of Wisdom Chapel in McCandless Hall Monday night to celebrate wnnkday Mass. 

The Mass is one of two weekday Masses oiTered by Saint Mary's Campus Ministry and offers an inti­mate setting in which stu­dents can pray and reeeive the Eucharist. Cam pus Ministry is also responsible for the 9 p.m. Sunday Mass in Hegina Chapnl and for 
see SMC MASS/page 4 

Language progra111s flourish 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
French is one of the ollieial languages of the Unitnd Nations (UN), but 500 million people worldwide speak Spanish, a figure eclipsed only by the billion people who speak Chinese. 
With so many good reasons to learn a foreign language, it is no wonder Notro Damn's enrollment in non-English lan­guago coursos has stnadily incrnased over tho last few years. 
"Flourishing language and literaturo programs requirn four elements." said Mark Hoehn, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. "First, ex<:el­lent language instruction; sec­ond, superb study abroad opportunities; third, course oiTerings in languagn, litera­tum and eultw·e; and four11, ;1 sense of community fostered by appropriate int<~llectual and sodal <went.s, including oppor­tunities to speak tlw language outside the dassroom." 
In all hut one of tlw past four ynars,-student intPrest in language learning has risen 27 percent., while studnnt partid­pation in study abroad pro­grams in non-English speaking countries has steadily inereased 15 pen~Pnt since 2002. 
The high studnnt nvaluations of foreign language courses and the eompntitiveness for placements in study abroad 
see LANGUAGE/page 6 


Thousands receive free flu vaccine 
By ALICIA CONLEY News Writer 
University Health Services will oll'nr fren flu vaeeinns for the third consecutive day at the Joyce Center today in anticipa­tion of tho oncoming flu sea­son. 
The shots wore offered Tunsday and Wednnsday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the .Joyce Center and will be ofl'ered at the same times today. 
Pat Brubaker, assistant director of University Health Services and the· person in charge of organizing the event, said roughly 700 people recnived the vaccine Tuesday and another 1, 700 people received shots Wednesday. Houghly 1,700 of the original 5,000 shots remain. 
Last year, the company con­traded to supply the Uniw1rsity 
see FLUIpage 8 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 6, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A111odern artfor111 
Procrastinating is the art of getting things done. 
I could probably write this column in about 25 minutes, but instead it will take me about an hour. Why is that? Well because I will be doing several Kelly Meehan things at once. 
Will I be doing productive things? News Writer Maybe. I will probably check my e-mail at least once, read some away messages and just talk to my roommate. Some may call it procrasti­nating, but I prefer to look at it as multi­tasking. 
Imagine how tedious life would become without these little distractions. How could you go a day without check­ing the away message of your old high school significant other? And you know that you have a burning desire to browse through your friend's Webshots just one more time before hitting the books. 
Well, I am here to say that it is okay to do these things. Having things to distract us makes life more interesting. Knowing that your favorite re-run of "Full House" will be on in 15 minutes makes the bur­den of reading the last few pages of Shakespeare a little more bearable. 
Nights spent talking and laughing with friends for hours on end in your dorm room may seem to put a wrench in the plans of finishing that novel, completing that project or studying for an upcoming test -but it is worth it. 
My personal procrastination peaks when I head off to the library. There is that initial feeling of packing up your books for a long night of studying. You know deep inside you don't want to, but you must. As you walk down the hall­way you look at every door, hoping that one will be open so you can stop and talk to your neighbor. Once you are out­side yot1 hope you will run into a famil­iar face to help put off the studying struggle. When you finally sit at your table and crack open your books, you place your cell phone right next to them, just in case. 
At times I have been known to do any­thing to avoid my homework. I will organize, rearrange furniture or hang up pictures. My roommate and I will even go on a massive cleaning of our dorm room to avoid doing our looming workJoads. 
So put down that book to call up an old friend, take a walk at 11 p.m. to enjoy one of the last warm nights in South Bend, talk to your friends at the dinner table for 45 minutes after you are done eating. You deserve it. 
little things like these help us to keep sane when we are burdened by books, overwhelmed by our jobs and plagued with projects. So don't feel guilty about that nap or watching that episode of Oprah. It will keep you sane and grounded, especially during this season of midterms and projects. 
On a final note, ifyou made it this far, I would like to thank you and point out that just as I have procrastinated by writing this article, you too have just procrastinated by reading this article. All I ask is that you don't take it to the next level, and resist the ultimate art of procrastination: the urge to look me up on the Facebook. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT COMMUNITY SERVICE DO YOU DO AND WHY? 







Bonnie Fullard  Christine Scacco  Danielle Thomson  Dave Gruener  Patrick Pawlicki  
sophomore Pasquerilla East  sophomore McGlinn  junior McGlinn  sophomore Keenan  junior St. Ed's  
"/ hang out with her. ..  "Because she has no friends. "  "/ hang out with my homeless homiest"  Tm going down to New Orleans to do  "/ hang out with ,SMC chicks.  

some hurricane relief work over break." 

DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer 
Students put on their dance shoes and paired off in the Rock Wednesday to learn the cha-cha during a meeting of the ballroom dancing club. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 
University Health Services is offering free flu shots for Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, retirees and their spouses today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
"The Long Reach of African American Poetics," a mini-con­ference and panel discussion celebrating the influence of African American cadences and verse, will be held at 2 p.m. today in Room 100-104 of McKenna Hall. 
The 13th annual American Cancer Society Great Lakes Symposium will be held Friday from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. at McKenna Hall. Titled "Cellular and Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer," the event is open to the public. 
Bernd Sturmfels, professor of mathematics and computer sci­ence at the University of California at Berkeley, will give a lecture titled "Algebraic Statistics for Computational Biology" at 5:30 p.m. Friday in Hayes-Healy Hall. 
Jose Miguel lnsulza, secre­tary general of the Organization of American States, will be the keynote speaker at a confer­ence titled "Democratic Governance in Latin America" at 4:45 p.m. Friday in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
The Sociology Club is hosting a night of bowling to support the Red Cross Thursday from 
9:30 p.m. to midnight at Strikes and Spares bowling alley. Tickets are $5. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

~ 
~ 

HIGH 63 HIGH 
64 

LOW 38 LOW 
42 

Wheelchair-bound man steals police car 
RIALTO, Calif. -A dis­abled man in a wheel­chair, arrested for allegedly trying to steal a power saw at Home Depot, managed to slip out of his handcuffs and steal the squad car he was placed in. 
Phillip Anthony Moreno, 44, a parolee with a previ­ous $200,000 warrant for his arrest, has eluded cap­ture. 
Moreno and girlfriend Denise Marie Vasquez, 35, were taken into custody about 3 p.m. Tuesday by Home Depot security offi­
cers after they allegedly tried to steal a hand-held electric saw, Sgt. Randy DeAnda said. 
"He had been sitting on it. It was under him on the chair," the sergeant said. 
When police officers arrived, they arrested Moreno and Vasquez and placed them in separate patrol cars. Moreno's wheelchair was put the squad car's tr;unk and the arresting officers stepped away to search the cou­ple's car. 
Gluttonous python bursts after enormous meal 
MIAMI -The alligator 
has some foreign competi­tion at the top of the Everglades food chain, and the results of the struggle are horror-movie messy. 
A 13-foot Burmese python recently burst after it apparently tried to swallow a live, six-foot alligator whole, authori­ties said. 
The incident has height­ened biologists' fears that the nonnative snakes could threaten a host of other animal species in the Everglades. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 0::: 
LLI 
::1: 

!;;: 
LLI 

~ 
.... 
c:t 
(,) 



0 

HIGH 62 HIGH 60 HIGH 56 HIGH 58
..... 
LOW 44 LOW 40 LOW 41 LOW 36 
Atlanta 86 I 69 Boston 72 I 56 Chicago 88 I 71 Denver 68 I 41 Houston 91 I 74 Los Angeles 78155 Minneapolis 80162 New York 80 I 66 Philadelphia 74 I 63 Phoenix 94 I 78 Seattle 59 I 48 St. Louis 90 I 72 Tampa 88 I 73 Washington 78 1 66 


Thursday, October 6, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
"Past Achievements, Current Status, and Perspectives ofthe InternationalProtection ofHuman Rights" 
atalk by 
Judge Antonio Augusto Can9ado Trindade, Notre Dame Law School Judge James 1. Clynes, Jr. Visiting Chair in the Ethics ofLitigation within the Judicial Process 
Friday, October 7 Law School courtroom ·4:00p.m. 
I

• Clear Coat 
I
OFF 

• Premium Soft Cloth 
Wash I IOUR I I 
• 
Polish-n-Sealer I Wax Applied •I 

• 
2-Step Uncferbody I


I






BEST 
Protectant I 
52694 State Road 933 1 South Bend, Indiana 46637 1
• Spot-Free 

Just 2 miles north of Notre Damo on U.S. 31 I 
Rinse Offer good a/the South Bend location only 1
WASH 


Academic Tutors Needed! Office of Academic Servicesfor Student-Athletes 
Courses in which tutors are needed include, but are not limited to the following: Accounting (20100) Art History (30420) 
Biology (10106, 30344, 40417) 
w ~ 

Business Statistics (BAMG 20100) Chemistry(10101, 10113,10117,20223130333, 
40420) Economics(30010,33470) Finance(40310,40430,40500,40610) Management (202001 MGTI 30620, BAMG 307001 MGTI 30620) Math(101301 10250,10260110350, 10450,30750) Physics(l0320,30210130220) 
*Other courses needed in addition to those listed. Please contact Kelli Kalisik at kkalisik@nd.e..cil! or 63I-9788 for more information! 


*Tutors must have received anA orA-in acourse they wish to tutor, as well asarecommendation from the professor. 
N uretnberg provides setting for inter-religious setninar 
Notre Dame participants include graduate students, faculty 
By BRIDGET KEATING 
Nt•ws Writer 
Mnrnlwrs of tlw Notrn Dame family rncnntly travnlnd to Nurembnrg, Cormany to attnnd an intnrnational intnr­rnligious snminar titlnd "Memory and Hncondliation: Building for tho Future Jewish-Christian Holations in Cultural Contnxt." Ovor forty students and faculty from <;nrmany and Poland gatherod for tho occasion. 
Tho primary purposn of the trip was to .introducn futuw tnachors of theology to issuns of Jewish-Christian dialogue as thny present thomsolvos in dill'fmmt cui­turns. 
Nolrn Damo was represented by llistory graduate student Elizabeth Covington. tlwology graduate students Krista l>uttnnhavnr, Andrew Gawrych, David K1wip. Scott Moringiollo and Molly Zahn. 
Habhi Michael Signer, Betty Signor, coordinator of tho Nl> lloloeaust Project, and Nancy Cavadini, Diocese of' Fort Waynn-South Bond representative in chargn of Jnwish-Catholie relations, ac1:ompanind tlw students. 
Students wore chosen based on their opnnnnss to dialogue and cultural change as wnll as thnir futuro university tnaching plans. Tho Collngn of Arts and Letters and tlw llolocaust Projed havn support­nd similar intnrnational forums in the past including two at the Center for Dialogun and Praynr near Auschwitz con­cnntration camp and in Krakow at tho Papal Antdnmy of Thnolo1-.,ry. 
Signor, Notre Dame's Abrams Professor of Jnwish Thought and Culture said the trip allowod thnm a window into history. 
"IStudnnts usnd thnl gnographical place of Nuromhorg to measure what was tlwrn, what was missing and how the post-World War II situation had changed or oponnd up the possibilities for dia-
Iogue and reconciliation among Jews, Christians. Americans. Germans and Polns," Signer said. 
While louring the grounds where the Nazi Party rallies were held, Father Andrew Gawrych said he was impacted by history. 
"The evils committed by the Nazi Party had not taken placo in some far ofT', dis­tant universe, but in the very world in which I lived," Gawrych said. "This feel­ing of physical closeness to those terrible nvils immediately created in me a over­whelming sense of urgency to work to ensure such nvils happen 'never again."' 
Those in attendance emphasized the nned for intnr-religious dialogue. 
"I believe it is not only important, but nssential for members of the Notrn Dame studnnt body and faculty to be involved in intnr-rnligious dialogue becausn it gm1s to the heart of' our mission as a Catholic university," Gawrych said. "Through dia­logue with other religions, we stand not only to enrich our understanding of' our own Catholic tradition, but also come to a deeper understanding of, and thus soli­darity with, people of other faiths." 
Students may know Jews, Signer said, but most have never engaged in religious dialogue. Dialogue is not easy, hn said, but despite its challenges, it is highly rewarding. 
Studying and discussing inter-faith dia­logue in an academic setting is not enough, however, Gawryeh said. 
For in the end, books do not build bridge; people do," Gawrych said. "If we arn to continue to build bridges that roach out from our own communities ­whether those be communities of faith, of race or of nationality -to other people, tho only way to do so is to bring real, liv­ing people together so that the can encounter and learn from one another." 
Contact Bridget Keating at bkeating@nd.edu 

Dance, modern verse light up SDB bonfire 
By LAURA KLEINSCHMIDT 
News Writer 

The Student Diversity Board (SDBI sponsored a bonfire on the Saint Mary's soccer fiold behind Angela Athletic Center at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday night. And the large bonfire was only the cnn­torpioco of a night full of activity that both Saint Mary's and Notro Dame stu­dents attended. 
Many different talented individuals and groups performed on a stage in the soccer field. The performances indudnd everything from Irish dancers to poetry readings to techno break-dancing. 
SDB publicity chair Santa Brink pre­pared the event for weeks and choreo­graphed and performed in a piece for the show. 
"I think this event was a success," Brink said. "There was a lot of hard work put into the event to promote diversity on campus." 
Perti>rming wasn't the only emphasis of the bonfire. Most students who attended came with an appetite. SDB created an autumn-like atmosphere with the hot apple cider and toasted marshmallows. They also provided hot cocoa, hot apple cider, trays of fruit and cheese and make-your-own 'smores, roasting marshmallows over the open firo. 
The October weather was warm for the evening, but students kept their dis­tance from the fire and remained cool. 
The evening kicked ofT' with introduc­tions from SDB, and the first act was the Saint Mary's Irish Dance Club. The next event was Mexican Folk Dancing. These talented young dancers showed ofT' their skills in a traditional Mexican Dance and then concluded with the Mexiean I I at Dance between a boy and a girl. 
The act that followed was an unusual type of expression called "Slam Poetry." Notre Dame senior Grant Osborn showed ofT' his skills as a slam poet. lie 
came back at the end of the evening to show ofT' his rapping skills, as well. 
Following his ad was tho Sajah Ila111:n Group, whkh consisted of four talented dancors in beautiful o1w-pioen cos­tumes. Notre Damn's Voiens of Faith gospnl choir performed next, eomposnd of both men and women. Salsa dan1:1ws and more poetry followed. 
Jennifer llernandoz led t.hn salsa daneing and asked for audiencn partiei­palion. The Hawaiian dub follownd tlw salsa dancers and pnrfornwd tho hula dance. 
Brandon lloyte, defensive captain of the Notre Dame football tnam, reeit11d two of original poems. 
"Poetry is the easiest way for nw to express my feelings," lloyte said. "It's my way of exhaling. If thorn's something I need to get ofT my chest, I do it through poetry." 
lloyte said he has been writing and experimenting with poetry sincn junior high school. 
The Notre Dame Irish Dance toarn came next, with five girls demonstrating their Irish Dance skills. Music was thnn put on and members of thn audiencn danced onstage bnf'oro tho noxt aet, con­sidered a "surprise," evnn to llw SDB members. 
This "surprise" turned out to be tech­no break-dancing by a talented student who used strobe lights and glow stieks to add to her aet. The "1st Class !.adios" steppers came on following the tnehno daneing and illustratnd tho art of stomp­ing. 
Monica Velardo, a f'rnshman at Saint Mary's and a nnw mnmbnr of' SDB was happy about the way that thn night turned out. 
''I'm glad that it was a groat success," Verlarde said. ''I'm one of' tho few minorities in school, so I think that it is really important to sprnad diversity." 
Contact Laura Kleinschmidt at lkleinO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 6, 2005 
ND Mass 
continued from page 1 
friends. The Masses are also geared toward a younger group, and the attire is more casual." 
Father Richard Warner, the dimctor of Campus Ministry, esti­mates the percentage of students who regularly attend Mass at Notre Dame to be at least 70 to 75 percent. 
"The rectors report that the dorm Sunday Masses are full this year and so are the Masses at the Basilica, where a significant num­ber of students worship," Warner said. "The congregation at the 
11:45 a.m. Mass is almost all stu­dents, and there are a significant number of them at the 10 a.m. and the 5 p.m. vigil Mass on Saturday." 
Every undergraduate dorm has a chapel that offers mass on Sunday, and many offer Mass at different times throughout the week. St. Edward's Hall has a Spanish Mass that is offered twice a week. At Dillon Hall, milkshakes follow Mass on Thursdays. Sorin, Stanford and Walsh Halls all offer Mass following home football games. 
The Basilica is another avail­able option for Sunday or week­day Masses. 
Lauren Prieto, a campus min­istry intern, describes the advan­tage of the dorm Masses over the Basilica. · 
"The dorm Masses offer a close­knit community and camaraderie in the residence halls," Prieto said. "It is a more personal expe­rience. You are physically in a smaller space, and you know most of the people there." 

As a campus ministry intern, Prieto works with the musical and liturgical commissioners in each dorm. Her guidance provides a starting point for the commission­ers in each dorm to shape their Masses and develop traditions unique to their particular dorm. 
"These Masses stress the importance of the liturgy -it is an integral part of dorm life," she said. 
The prominence of Mass in the life of a Notre Dame undergradu­ate instills in students a routine that continues beyond graduation. 
"A recent study of Mass atten­dance by graduates of 24 Catholic colleges and universities ten years after graduation, which was car­ried out about three years ago, indicates that about 7 5 percent of Notre Dame. graduates attend Mass weekly ten years after their graduation," Warner said. "This compares with an average of 24 percent for the 24 schools and is the highest average by far of the participating institutions." 
Warner said the numbers are impressive but said the main important qualities of the dorm Masses are "how prayerful these residence hall Masses are, how well the students participate and what a significant role they play in the lives of our undergrads." 
Contact Kaitlynn Reily at kreily@nd.edu 
tapping into the Student Union's carry-forward account, which

Senate 

-student body president Lizzi continued from page 1 Shappell said was at $180,000. Harris disagreed with Tortorello and said a long-term 
each hall as Notre Dame cially at Saint Mary's does, but if students know because the faces become

SMCMass 
there is going to be a Mass familiar." continued from page 1 in their building, Chmelko She also likes to attend 
said, it makes it easier for mass at Notre Dame, howev­Reconciliation, which takes them to attend. er. place Mondays at 8 p.m. in "It kind of offers a more "It is nice to go over Regina Chapel. convenient time if you want there," Recupito said. "It is 
The location of Monday's 9 to take a break [from study­a different change of pace. 
p.m. Mass rotates every ing]." Chmelko said. You get to get off campus other week between Our There was a time when and see the opposite sex." Lady of Wisdom Chapel in Campus Ministry offered Fean said she was hesitant McCandless Hall and The Mass every single day in a to say Saint Mary's Campus Sacred Heart Chapel in Holy different residence hall, Ministry has to "compete" Cross Hall. The second Fe an said. Complications with Notre Dame dorms for available weekday Mass, contracting priests to say Mass attendees. She and her also at 9 p.m., is held in Mass, coupled with low colleagues are aware that Holy Spirit Chapel in Le attendance, many students Mans Hall. prompted like to cross the 
"The [weekday] Mass in Campus street to meet McCandless averages 8 to 15 Ministry to "Most people get to with friends and [attendees]," said Campus pare down know one another at attend Mass, she Ministry director Judy Fean. the mass said.
Mass, especially at

"The [weekday Mass] at schedule. "I think there Holy Cross has had larger However, Saint Mary's because are real reasons groups. I think it is the size on the days the faces become for people to of the space." w h e n seek out differ­
familiar. " 

The attendance at the Campus ent places," Fean 
Wednesday Mass in the Le Ministry said. 
Mans Hall chapel is some­does not Ashley Recupito "Would I like to 
times as large as 30 to 50 have Mass, Saint Mary's freshman see 800 or 900 
students, Fean said. students girls at mass at 
As a student employee for have the Saint Mary's?" campus ministry ·first year option of Fean asked. Katie Chmelko regularly celebrating the Eucharist Of course she would, she attends weekday masses at with the Sisters of the Holy said. But the most important Saint Mary's. She is respon­Cross at the Church of Our thing is providing at com­sible if preparing the holy Lady of Loretto. Many Saint munity atmosphere where water and for assigning lec­Mary's students also choose students can gather as a turing duties. to attend mass at Notre congregation. 
"[Weekday Masses] are Dame, either in dorms or at "I just hope for a place more personal," Chmelko the Basilica. where people are able to said. "It is more of a family First year Ashley Recupito gather together and pray," atmosphere. It is kind of like also works for Saint Mary's Fean sai,d. "I hope Saint the apostles." Campus Ministry and fre­Mary's and the type of 
Location can play in an quently attends weekday prayer and the daily masses important factor in whether Masses on campus. provide that time for students will attend mass, "I think it offers a smaller prayer." Chmelko said. Saint Mary's setting," Recupito said. does not offer dorm Masses "Most people get to know Contact Megan O'Neil at exclusively to residents of one another at Mass, espe-Onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
···············································~ 
four years in buying power due change, like the proposed student 

~ University Resources :
to inflation," Harris said. "We're activities fee increase, was neces­not advocating keeping a student sary. activities fee at the same rate as "The important thing here is tuition, but tuition has increased that [carry-forward account] • 
• 
•• for Gay, Lesbian, & •• so much we think it's time for the wouldn't be able to sustain a pro­• • Student Activities Fee to increase, gram for more than two years," • • as well." Harris said. "And the second • •
• Bisexual Students •
Under the proposal, $10 of the issue [is], is there actually money • • increase would be allocated to available within the Student • • funding the College Readership Union? An audit would take for­•e CO~MITTt:t: 0111 • Program. During la'it year's four­ever ... and I would be very wary 6A1' AND LUIIU4N •
•
e 51"'UDII!NT N!!t!:Dt!l
week pilot program, students [of the reported results], unless showed demand for the free we hired a really good auditor." •
• 

papers, which included the New Baron said it would not be pos­• York Times, Chicago Tribune and sible to find enough money for The Standing Committee on Gay and • 
USA Today. the College Readership Program • • Although only $5 of the within the Student Union ­increase would go to Student "$20,000, maybe." •• • Lesbian Student Needs ••• 
Union clubs and organizations, But he also said senators • •
(Confidential information, education, and resources)
Harris justified the allotment. should not be concerned the • • "The fact that we have such a College Readership Program • Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or :.,·tudent • high increase [in revenues from would be "hardwired" into the 
The Shirt] justifies the mere $5 Student Union budget. ••• members (see web site for student contact info.) ••• 
for Clubs and Organizations," "We should lead for today," • • said Harris, who noted that the Baron said. "We can't lead too • • Financial Management Board much into the future." •• Office of Campus Ministry •• would be in charge of allocating If the College Readership •
•

this $5. "Everyone does come out Program becomes a burden, • (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students • 
a winner here." Baron said, Senate can reevalu­• • 
Student body president Dave ate its existence in the future. He • and their friends; pertinent library resources in • Baron explained the second likened the College Readership •• 304 Co-Mo~ confidential discussion and support) •••
phase of the proposed plan, Program to the figurative alba­
• 

which would involve modifying tross, presumably hanging Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at 1-9704 •
• 

the fixed allocation percentages around Senate's neck. • • specified in the Student Union Keough senator Rob Lindley • • constitution to redistribute fee agreed with Baron about focus­
• University Collllseling Center • 
revenues and allow for the ing on the present. He said he College Readership Program. supported both the fee increase • (Individual counseling) • A few senators questioned and the College Readership • • 
Harris, urging caution and fur­Program. • Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at l.a.fferty.3@nd.edu • ther analysis of the budget. "It would be beneficial on all • • 
O'Neill senator Steve Tortorello parts for the change to be made," summarized the discussion at Undley said. • • Monday's Council of If senators pass the proposal in • For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ • Representatives meeting, saying upcoming meetings, the resolu­• • 
there was "concern about the tion will then go to Campus Life • • actual way this would impact stu­Council, which would then make • • 
dent programming on campus." a recommendation to Vice ................................................
~ 
"Is there money available now President of Student Affairs somewhere else we don't know Father Mark Poorman, Baron about that can pay for this?" said. The University budgeting Tortorello asked. "We really need group would have the final say. to analyze our budget, dissect our budget ... and audit ourselves." Contact Maddie Hanna at 
He mentioned the possibility of Mhannal@nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 6, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRF. SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

King of Jordan encourages meeting 
i\MMi\N -.Jordan's King Abdullah II said Wndnnsday that tlw Palestinian and Isranli lnadnrs will nwnt next week to n~vivn Midnast pnacmnaking. 
;\ statnnwnt issued by Abdullah's prnss office said Tuesday's meeting between lsranli Prinw Minister !\riel Sharon and Palestinian leader Mahmoud i\bbas "is in n~sponsn to the king's nl'f'orts to push !'or­ward t.lw pna1:n process." 
It did not say wlwn~ the meeting would take plan~ or wlwtlwr the .Jordanian king would attend. It noted that i\bdullah made snparatn tnlnphorw calls to Sharon and i\bbas narlier in the day. 
l'alnstinian and lsnwli o['f'icials did not ronl'irrn thn dato. 
Zimbabwe will aid starving citizens 
11!\.Hi\IW -Tlw Zimbabwean govern­nwnt plans to assist at least 2.2 million twopln it says are incapable of' !'ending thmnsnlvns until the noxt harvest, dun_ in April 200h, according to tho country's director of' Social Wnlf'arn. 
The figure is far short of the minimum 4 million pnopln nstimatnd by United Nations agnncins to lw in urgent rwnd of' f'ood aid. 
Pn~sident Hobert Mugabe has so l'ar n~f'usnd to appeal l'or assistance but said foreign donations would bn permitted, pro­viding thny carried no conditional demands f'or political or economic reform. and contairwd no gnrH~tically modil'ied l'oodstuf'l's. 
The statn-controllnd daily newspaper Tlw llnrald said Social Wnlf'arn Director Sydney Mhishi madt~ t.he disdosurc during tnstinwny to an all-party committee of ll~g­islators on Monday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Clinton promises relief for victims 
CULFPOHT. Miss. -Former President Bill Clinton walked ruined streets in Mississippi and i\labama on Wednesday, promising that tlw money hn and former President Bush ar<~ raising privately for llurricarw Katrina relid will go where it's most rwndnd. 
";\ hundred million dollars is a lot of rnorwy, but spread out i1ver all this dam­age it is not," Clinton said of the fund total thus f'ar. 
Clinton said the Cull' Coast tragedy was shared by all. "Thnn~·s no politics in this. There's no !.l n p ,u b I i c an s o!' I> n'!} o c r a t s . " h e sai d . Wn rn all i\nwncans. 


Immigrant farmworkers murdered 
TIFTON, Ga. -Three people were charged with murdering six immigrant l'armworknrs in a series of' robberies by a gang wielding baseball bats and guns. 
Authorities said tlw robbers preyed on immigrants because thny ol'tnn carry larg1~ sums of cash for lack of the docu­ments needed to opnn bank accounts. 

St a c y B~~ r n a r d Si m s , 1I) • .I a rn i n Underwood, 27, and .Jnnnifer Wilson, 2(>, worn ordered held without bail Wndrwsday on six counts of murder in the string ol' attacks that took place last (."riday at !'our trailer parks. Vietims wore lwatnn and shot. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Union worried about staff shortage 
INI>Ii\Ni\I'OLIS-Tho union rnprosenting air tral'lk eontrollnrs Wednesday said staffing shortages in the dty's airport and nlsowherc havt~ rnadwd lnvnls that could cause f'uturn delays li1r air travolnrs as the number of !lights continuos to rise. 

Mnmbnrs of' tlw National i\ir Tral'fie Controllers i\ssodation, whieh rnprnsnnts about 14,000 li~dnral controllnrs nationwide, said that hiring rub by the Bush administration havt~ lnl't tlw nation's air trallk network vulner­ahln to a looming number ol' rntirmnnnts. 
IRAQ 


Bomb explodes outside mosque 
Evening blast kills dozens on the first day of Ramadan, the Muslinz holy month 
Associated Press 
IIILLi\11, Iraq -i\ bomb exploded at the entrance of a Shiite Muslim mosque south of' Baghdad as hun­dreds of worshippers gathered for prayers on the 11rst day of l{amadan and for tho funeral of' a man killed in an earlier bombing. At least 25 peo­ple were killed and 87 wounded. 
The explosion hit the llussniniyat Ibn at-Nama mosque, ripping through strings of' lightbulbs and green and red flags hung around the entrance to celebrate the start of the holy month. The mosque's facade was ravaged, shops nearby were detroyed and several cars were damaged. 
Hundreds of men had gathored at the mosque, located in the center of' llillah, for prayers before returning home to nat the meal that ends the day's sunrise to sunset fast. when the blast wnnt off at 6 p.m. 
Others were there for the funeral service of a restaurant owner who was killed by a bomb that ripped through his restau­rant Monday. 

It was the second major bomb attack in a week in llillah, one of the most sidewalk next to the splashed water over my 100 pnople. insurgent-hit towns in mosque's entrance. At face, and I saw all tho On Feb. 28, a suicide car southern Iraq, the heart­least 25 people were damage, the martyrs and bomber hit Shiite police land of the Shiite majority. killed and at least 87 the wounded," he said. and national guard i\1-Qaida in Iraq, one of wounded, said Dr. Adnan "Wow could they do that?" recruits in llillah, killing tho country's deadliest al-Nashtah of the city's he cried, referring to the 125 people -the dead­militant groups, has called health department. attackers. liest singln bomW.ng of the f'or stepped up attacks "While I was praying, I Wednesday was the lirst insurgency. during Hamadan and has hoard a huge blast and day of Ramadan for Iraq's Thousands of U.S. declared an all-out war on realized parts of the Shiite majority. Sunnis troops are waging two Iraq's Shiites. mosque were crumbling began marking the month major offensives to try to 
The blast also was the over my head." said one a day earlier. put down al-Qaida in its latest in a string of attacks survivor, Asaad .Jassem, The attack came five strongholds in the mostly by Sunni-led insurgents 35. "Some parts of the days after a car bomb Sunni northwest of Iraq. that have targeted Shiite mosque's ceiling fell onto exploded in a crowded Moderate Sunni i\rah Muslims in the lead-up to worshippers, I saw people market, killing 10 people, leaders are campaigning an Oct. 15 refenmdum on on the ground bleeding." including three women against the constitution, Iraq's nnw constitution. llaj Mohammed and two children in trying to defeat it at the Insurgents have vowed to Abdullah, a 45-ynar-old llillah, about 60 miles polls bneause they say it wreck the vote. shopkeeper, had closed his south of Baghdad. A day will fragment Iraq into 
The explosion, which store to come pray. earlier. a string of car Shiite and Kurdish mini­police believed was "We hoard an explosion bombs hit in Balad, a states in thn south and caused by a planted explo­and then I fainted. I woke Shiite town north of north, leaving Sunnis in a sive, detonated on the up when policemen Baghdad, killing around weakened central zone. 


Senate restricts terror suspect treatment 
Associated Press 
Wi\SIIINGTON -Tho Hepubliean­eontrolled Senate voted overwhelm­ingly Wednesday to impose restric­tions on the treatment of' terrorism suspects, delivering a rare wartime rebuke to Prnsident Bush. 
Defying the White llouse, senators voted Y0-9 to approve an amendment that would prohibit the use of "cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment" against anyone in U.S. government custody, regardless of where they are hold. 
The amendment was added to a $440 billion military spending bill f'or the budget yoar that began Oct. I. 
The proposal, sponsored by Sen. John McCain, also requires all service members to follow procedures in the i\rmy Field Manual when they detain and interrogate torrorism suspeets. 
Bush administration ollicials say the legislation would limit the president's authority and llexibility in war. 
But lawmakers from each party have said Congress must provide U.S. troops with clear standards for detaining, interrogating and prosecut­ing terrorism suspects in light of alle­gations of mistreatment at Guantanamo Bay and the abuse scan­dal at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. 
"Wo demanded intelligence without ever dearly telling our troops what was permitted and what was forbid­den. i\nd when things wont wrong, we blamed thnm and we punished them," said McCain, a prisoner of war in Vietnam. 
"Our troops are not served by ambi­guity. They arc crying out for clarity and Congress cannot shrink from this duty," said McCain, H-Ariz. 
The Senate was expected to vote on tho overall spending bill by weeks' end. The llousn-approvnd vnrsion of' it. does not inelude the detainee provi­sions. It is undnar how mueh support the measure has in the GOP-run House. 

page 6 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 6, 2005 
Sound a music major can love. 
At a price a finance major can appreciate. 
Bose SoundDock™ digital 
music system. Enjoy Bose® 
sound in your room while 
charging your !Pod, iPod 
mini or !Pod photo. Louis 
Ramirez of The Washington 
Post says it "delivers crisp, 
room-filling sound with nice 
bass that doesn't distort at 
high volume." 

Bose Companion® 3 computer speaker system. 
A unique circular control pod, two tiny speakers and 
• ahideaway Acoustimass® module (not shown) give your music files sound that MacHome says "is a shock to all who underestimate it/' 

Bose Wave® music system. 
CNET says it "improves 
upon the original in both 
design and performance." 
Plays MP3 COs, includes 
FMIAM tuner/alarm clock 
and fits easily in a dorm or 
apartment. Jonathan Takiff­
of The Philadelphia Daily 
News says, "crank it utJ 
loud and this little jack is 
a giant killer. .. " 

L.;._---'----------------------------­

Bose® sound for the way you listen. 
Whether it's music 
on your iPod;w your 
computer or MP3 CDs­
there's a Bose system for 
the way you listen. Get 
more of the passion of a 
guitar solo and the pulse 
of tl}~ rhythm section ­
even at full volume. 

....... .... ..... ................ .

Special savings and -·~--·­·•-••••-•-·-•-•-••········;;;.;::::·:::• .·student discounts. 
® 


Tl..fEOBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, October 6, 2005 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,317.36 -123.75
jones.._ 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,11 I 143 ~JS 2,400,983,230 
AMEX 1,6R4.05 -37.60 NASDAQ 2,103.02 -36.34 NYSf 7,436.36 '-121.74 S&PSOO I, 196.39 -18.08 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 13.464.70 -225.] 9 FTSE IOO(London) 5,427.80 -66.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UN I PHASE CP ODSU) 0.00 0.00 2.25 NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) -1.37 -0.54 38.76 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.24 -0.31 24.67 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.24 +0.01 4.21 HUMAN GENOME SCI -29.35 -4.10 9.87 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.50 -0.23 45.80 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.34 -0.15 43.61 5-YEAR NOTE -0.17 -0.07 42.32 3-MONTH BILL -1.27 -0.45 34.90 

CommodltJes 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.1 I 62.79 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 0.00 469.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.58 96.38 
Excha Rates 

YEN 113.7950 EURO 0.8302 POUND 0.5639 



IN BRIEF 
U.S. panel recommends tariff halt 
BISMAHCK, N.D.-Tarifl"s on Canadian wheat imports should be liftml, a U.S. trade panel eon­dulled Wednnsday in a dndsion that could slash wheat priens f(>r Amnrican farmers. 
Hevnrsing an earlier finding, the International Trade Commission decided the trading praetiees of tlw Canadian Wheat Board. which controls wlwal and harley exports from Canada's west­ern provincns, worn not harming U.S. l'arnwrs. 
"Tarifr.., will bn eoming oil'. Finally, it looks like justice will prnvail." said Ken Hitter, a Saskatdwwan farmer and the Wheal Board's 1·hairman. "The prospect of selling wheat into the U.S. mark1~t once more is very welcome indnnd." 
Adrian Measrwr. thn Wheat Board's prnsident and chief executive, said he expm:ts the board may rnsunw U.S. exports late this year or early next year. Mnasrwr said he did not expect a surge of exports, bnmusn it is late in the mar­keting year and Canada lacks a surplus of high­quality spring wlwat. 
Congress proposes budget cuts 
WASIIINGI'ON -Under ordnrs to cut agricul­ture spending hy $] billion, Hepublicans in Congress have proposnd reducing food pro­grams for thn poor by $574 million and mnser­vation programs by $1 billion, Thn Associated l'n~ss has hmrned. 
Tlw proposal by the chairman of the Senate Agrintlturn, Nutrition and Fornstry Committe!\ Sen. Saxby Chambliss, H-Ca., also would cut payments to farnwrs by 2.5 percent across the hoard. 
Thn plan far.ns hostility from congrnssional Ih~mo1Tal.s and ol.lwr critics who say the cuts would hurl food stamps and consnrvation pro­grams. 
l'aynumts to farmnrs would fall by $1.145 bil­lion owr live years. But that is considerably less sPwn• than what President Bush had proposed. Bush had sought a 5 pen:enl rmludion in pay­rnents. plus a far-maching plan for 1:apping pay­nH•nls that would cut billions mon~ dollars from subsidies mllm:ted by large farm operations. 
Tlw AI' obtairwd a summary of tho budgol­culling plan. whkh was sdwduh~d for a vote Thursday in Chambliss' committee. Congress ordm·ed l.hn $:{ billion in euts in a budget outline passed this year. 
Businesses push Patriot Act atnenchnents 
Companies complain that records are too easily accessible, want more restrictions 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Some 
promin1mt business organi­
zations are complaining to 
Congress that the Patriot 
Act makos it too easy for 
the government to get con­
fidential business records. 
These groups endorsed proposed amendments on Wednesday that would require investigators to say how the information they seek is linked to individual suspneted terrorists or spins. The changes also would allow businesses to challenge the requests in courts and spoak publiely about those requests. 
This is the first organized critieism from big business or tho anti-tnrror law that was passed after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. It also comes as Congress heads toward a vole on whether to extend some disputod provisions that expire at year's ond. 
"Confidential files ­records about our cus­tomers or our employoes, as wnll as our trade socrets and other proprietary information -can too oas­ily be obtained and dissem­inated under investigative powers expanded by the Patriot Act," six business groups wrote the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Arlen have been advocated by a federal agents to provide a rnarwnt gag order 1:overing Specter, H-Pa. coalition of civil liberties court that sits in secret to docunwnts demands made 
"These new powers lack groups and eonservative issue Patriot Aet warrants under the ad. suf'licient checks and bal­political organizations. with a statement of facts Susan llackett, gnneral ances," the letter said. President Bush asked showing "some linkage counsel of tho Assoeiation 
Some of the most power­Congress to make perrna­between the records sought of Corporatn Counsel, onn ful lobbying groups in the nent the expiring provi­and an individual suspect­of tho signers, said it took city signed the letter. It sions of the existing act. ed of being a terrorist or time for businoss leaders to ondorses amendments to But the Senate bill only spy." formulate a position restrict the record-gather­would extend the most con­Currently the government because the law forbids ing powers of federal troversial provisions for merely has to certify it is companins servnd with agents, including some four more years; it's 10 conducting an authorized orders from discussing changes that are in the years in the !louse's ver­investigation without pro­them. Senate's but not the sion. viding any l'aets connecting "Just after IJ-11, nobody I louse's version of the act's Attorney General Alberto the records to actual sus­wanted to be anti-patriot, extension, and one that is Gonzales has said the pects. so everybody sat back to in neither bill. administration prefers the They also endorsed give the act somo time," 
Among the signers are llouse bill and objects to Senate amendments that llackett addnd. "We no the U.S. Chamber of some of the new restric­would provide the first longer in that llwel of Commerce, the National tions in the Senate version. "meaningful right to ehal­emergeney so now is the Association of The differences are to be lenge the I Patriot Act court! tirnn to partieipate in the Manufacturers and the resolved in a Senate-llouse order when the order is deliberations." National Association of conference. unreasonable, oppressive Otlwr signors were The Hmtltors. The business groups or seeks privileged infor­Finaneial Services 
The restrictions sought endorsed a Senate provi­mation" and the right to Houndtabln and Businoss by the business groups also sion that would require challenge the existing per-Civil Lihnrtins Inc. 


Stocks fall sharply for a second day 
Associated Press the sharp drop in the index was priees for nnnrgy hav1~ bonn filtering NEW YOHK -Stocks fell hard for unexpected, following a strong into the rnst or the nconorny. a seeond day Wednesday, with the report in manufacturing earlier this Investors are also jiltnry about Dow Jones industrial averagn losing month. earnings season, whil:h ol'fieially more than 120 points aft1w a surpris­Wndnesday's reading, which indi­starts Monday. Sonw 1:ompanins such ingly weak reading on the service catnd supply managers were worried as Clorox Co. have already bPgun to s11etor of the 11eonomy raised con­about higher fmergy costs, spooked warn tlwir earnings will not nwel l:erns about the continuing impact of investors already nnrvous about the oxpnctat.ions. higher energy priees. nl'fects that rising oil and gas prices "Wn nned to got (earnings snason) Equitios opnned lower after will have going forward. out of tlw way and sen how compa­Tuosday's selloiT, tlwn fell further Tho market was still mulling nins arn doing," said Barry Berman. when the Institute for Supply Tuesday's comments from Dallas head tradl'r for Hobnrt W. Baird & Managmnent rnportnd that its non­Federal Heserve Bank President. Co. in Milwaukne. manufacturing businnss indnx, which Hobnrl Fisher. who said inflation was The Dow .Jonns industrial awrage nwasums the servicn snctor, dropped nearing the high end of the Fed's l'nll 12:L75, or I.IIJ percent, to to 53.3 in September from (>5.0 in comfort zone -a clear signal that. 10,317.:H>. The·dediJW followed a August. While any reading above 50 the Fed's short-term interest rate drop of 94.37, or O.IJ JWrcnnt., on indicates the economy is expanding, hikes would eontinue. The higher Tuesday. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 6, 2005 

Faculty 
continued from page 1 
meeting with faculty "at break­neck speed," he is working with University President Father John Jenkins and Executive Vice President John Affieck-Graves on budget plans. 
"Both are very committed to academic priorities," he said. 
A common faculty complaint voiced at the meeting was that not enough structure is estab­lished to promote interdiscipli­nary work at Notre Dame, an issue Burish raised during his Sept. 12 address to faculty. 
'The question is aimed at say­ing interdisciplinary or discipli­nary work [is better]." Burish said. "Both should flourish when it's appropriate for them to f)our­ish." 
Faculty Senate member Cynthia Mahmood said structural barriers were halting the Peace Studies department's progress. This problem, Faculty Senate member Gail Bederman said, is partly a result of the University traditional lack of "infrastruc­ture," 

"Notre Dame has a tradition of putting money into buildings, roads -things that look good to trustees," Bederman said. 
Student Affairs committee chair Philippe Collon said he felt Notre Dame's colleges and departments were at times too disconnected. 
"I feel that at Notre Dame, sometimes we know less than we should about what is happening in other departments," Collon said. 
Interdisciplinary work, Collon said, "would help us grow and develop something." 
Faculty Senate also approached the conflict between emphasizing undergraduate teaching and promoting gradu­ate programs. 
"We want to become a great research university in a different way than a Purdue or an MIT," Brown said. 
Brown proposed two "win-win situations," promoting under­graduate research and finding "quality graduate students" to teach large classes. This way, Brown said, the focus is on both undergraduate and graduate students. 
Other concerns focused on the difficulty in attracting graduate students to Notre Dame pro­grams. Discussion also centered on Faculty Senate's role com­pared to other campus faculty committees and how this role could be generative, rather than responsive. 
"My understanding of the 
[Faculty] Senate is that unlike 
almost any other entity of the 
University, it is as independent of 
the administration as it can be 
and still fall under the Articles of 
Union," Faculty Senate member ··John Robinson said. "Its strength is its independence. Its weakness 
is its independence." 

Brown recalled the "not very 
specific" jurisdiction outlined in 
"the charge" to the Faculty 
Senate in the University's 
Academic Articles. 

The Faculty Senate is broken 
down into four committees ­
Benefits, Academic Affairs, 
Administrative Affairs and 
Student Affairs, Brown said. 
Items are added to Faculty 
Senate's agenda as they come to 
the attention of members. 

The visit to the Faculty Senate 
was just one of Burish's recent 
meetings with faculty. He said he 
was in the middle of trips to vari­
ous departments and was start­
ing a lunch series to discuss 
whatever faculty members 
desired. 

"I truly believe the University's 
quality is determined more by 
the faculty than anything else," 
Burish said. "So really, it begins 
with the faculty." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at Mhannal@nd.edu 

to me to get one," she said. 
This year, people with a high­er risk of developing the flu continued from page 1 were allowed to receive shots 
on Tuesday, and everyone. else released vaccines only in incre­was allowed to get them ments. At the time of distribu­Wednesday and today. tion in the fall, there were not Last year, only "high-risk" enough shots to meet demand, patients were allowed to and Health Services ran out receive shots because of the quickly. shortage, said Brubaker, but 
This year, the University went this year everyone is allowed to with a new company, go. GlaxoSmithKline, and all of the Another change from last doses were delivered last week, year is the timing of the shots. Brubaker said. "This is the earliest we've 
Funding for the shots comes ever given the flu shot," said partly from the Health Services Brubaker. budget and partly from Human She explained that "it takes Resources, ten days to build Brubaker immunity" from the said. The "[Our] main purpose shot and that Health Health is to keep students Services wanted to Services give the shots out 
Flu 

well so they can be
budget "before fall break so money pays successful at school., that students don't for shots for catch the flu and students bring it back to
Pat Brubaker 
and also campus with them." 
assistant director of
covers sup­Brubaker ordered plies needed University Health the vaccines in 
to adminis­Services ter the shots. The Human Resources money goes toward shots for staff, faculty and retirees. 
"We pretty much split the cost" Brubaker said. 
Though the University has to put up the money for the vac­cines, Brubaker said keeping students healthy is worth the cost. One shot could potentially save an individual two weeks of misery during flu season, she added. 
"[Our] main purpose is to keep students well so they can be successful at school," Brubaker said. 
Freshman Meghan Keefe received a flu shot at the Joyce Center Tuesday. 
"I have a weakened immune system, and I don't want to get sick," Keefe said. 
However, not everyone has decided the shots are neces­sary. First year Christina Sartorio said she will not get a flu shot. 
"I've never gotten one before, and I've had a lot of opportuni­ties to get one because my mom is a nurse. It's never occurred March in prepara­
tion for the distribu­
tion at the Joyce this week. 
"We have to predict how many we're going to need based on the usage from the year before and based on the flu season," Brubaker said. 
Once the vaccines arrive, they are stored by Food Services in their freezers. Building Services also helped with the effort by getting the JACC ready for the shots to be given there. 
The flu vaccine is given out by Health Services ever year because the strains of flu that are the most prevalent in the 
U.S. change every year as well. 
Brubaker explained that the vaccine only protects against "the top three strains of the flu out of a total of 100 strains" and that the "recipe" for the vaccine is based on "the flu in the U.S." 
If any doses are left over after today, they will be available in the Health Center, Brubaker said. 
Contact Alicia Conley at aconley 1 @nd.edu 
Share your space, but live on your own. 

Get everything for your dorm room at Walmart.com and still afford tuition. ALWAYS LOW PRICES. 
~­
Walmart.com 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------··--------------------------. 
Thursday, October 6, 2005 The Observer +NEWS page 9 
Language 
continued from page 1 
programs in non-English speak­ing countries an~ nmsistPnt with Borlw's optimism rnganling Notre Damn's rising bilingual­ism. 
.Junior .Joanna Mangnnny sup­ports tlw l'ondgn language n~quirenwnt !'or 1\rts and Letters majors. 
''I'm in favor ol' tho University's forPign language rnquirenwnt." MangPnny said. "I think it's an important. eomponnnt ol' a well rounded liberal arts Pduration." 
Matt Sduwl'nr, a junior chem­istry student, qunstionml why he was rnquired to take courses that had little to do with his major. 
"Whih~ I thoroughly nnjoy my imrnnrsion in tho Spanish lan­guage, I don't nneessarily sen why science majors should be rnq.~Ji~ed to takn l~mg~age eours­ns, Schaefer sa1d. I mean ... business students don't have to, and they actually interact with people in tlwir workplaces." 
Many students choose to m<~jor in a litrnign language in addition to another linld ol' study, such as business or political scicnee, knowing that eornmand ol' a see­om! language may lead to morn opportunities in the United Stal!~s and around thn world. 
"Spanish allows you to eom­munkatn with thn otlwr hall' of our lwmisplwrP. not to nwntion tlw l'astnst. growing minority in our own rountry," said .Josh Kempf'. a sophomor1~ who nxpnets to study abroad in Latin 1\nwrkan. "It's usnful for busi­ness, travnl and lifn in gnneral," hn said. 
On average, there are 260 undnrgraduate Spanish majors in Notre Dame, making it the most popular foreign language among students. 
Languagns like Chinese and .Japanesn are also becoming a eommon dwice among students, as thny are hnlpl'ul in the global business anma. 
'The l'astnst. areas ol' language to sen growth over the Ia~ few years are Chinese, Japanese, Arabie and Irish," said Lionel Jnnsen, chair ol' the Department ol' East /\sian Languages and l.iteraturn. 
Since his arrival in 2000, Jnnsnn has seen the fmrollments in Chinese dasses quadruple, to the extent that temporary instructors aw being brought in to meet students' demands. 
Just this year, over 20 students interested in Chinese could not enroll in dasses because the sec­tions were full. 
"Notre Dame's incoming stu­dents are evermore aware of the complexity of today's politics and eeonomies and the eritieal role that 1\sia and the Middle East play," Jensen said. "Without China's finaneing, the war in Iraq and the American housing market, to mention a few, would not be a reality. Ireland is the single most successful and fastest-growing economy in thn 1\uropean Union. Our students are aware of these faets, and they want to learn these Ian­guages." 
Sophomore Tatiane I lsu, rec­ognizes how strategie Chinese is in any global market, but she's also drawn to the language itself. 
"Since both my parents arc from Taiwan, Chinese is a big part of my heritage, and I really want to lnarn how to speak it," Ilsu said. 
The Italian program has also seen signilieant growth over the last live ynars. 
The number of studHnts enrolled in Italian courses­either through the foreign lan­guage requirement or as a declared major -was 180 in 1997, whereas then1 arc 438 students eurrently lnarning the language, an incwasn of approx­imately 143 perennt, aeeording to Christian Moevs, an associate professor and liaison to the Chair for the ture and culture for beauty, pro­fundity, richness and general quality and joy of life." 

!\ similar phenomenon draws students into French dassns and consequently a snmester in Angers, France. 
"I don't think that there's any question that the Angers pro­gram has influeneed some stu­dents to choose French for study at NI>," said Paul McDowell, coordinator of the Angers pro­gram. "It is an increasingly com­mon phenomenon to lind former 1\ngers program students in the erowd at my freshman orienta­tion presentation. Their children, now Notrn Dame students, 
grew up hear­
''I'm in favor of the
Program in ing about cas­Italian studies. University's foreign tles, tapestries, 
The pro-language requirement." baguettes and 
gram's popu­this beautiful larity may be city where 
Joanna Mangeney
due in part to Notre Damn the student junior has been for 
body's interest in the study abroad pro­grams, whieh require a basie knowledge of Italian, particular­ly the full-immersion program at the University of Bologna, whew Notre Dame students live with Italian students and take classes in the university with them. 
The Bologna program requires at least !'our semesters of Italian, while the Rome program rnquires only two. 
"There seem to be lots of rna­sons why students want to study Italian at Notro Dame," said pro­fessor Christian Moevs. "One rnason is that we're cool. More seriously, it's hard to compete with Italy and with Italian litera­been !'or forty 
years. They 
want to be a part of that, and I think this is one of the better untold stories of Notre Dame tradition." 
Similarly, student interested in the Hussian program has also sparked, and the enrollment wit­nessed an increase of approxi­mately 1 0 pereent over the last few years. 
David Gasperetti, chair of' the German and Hussian Language and Litnrature department, said students are attracted to the program because ol' the exotic nature of Itussia and also for other masons. 
"I find that most students are drawn to Hussian for two rea­sons -nither thny sen it as a strong eomplement to a nu~jor in political seinnee, history, or English, whieh it is, or they am drawn by its outstanding litnrary tradition, which has givm1 tlw world such world-n~nownnd fig­urns as Dostonvsky, Tolstoy and Chnkhov," Gaspnrntti said. 

Gaspnretti is also eonl'idnnt that those first thrne senwstPrs of introduction to the languagn are adnquatn prnparation hdorn going abroad. 
Thorn are also study abroad programs in other non-English speaking r.ountrins, including Egypt, <;rnecn, Spain and Brazil. 
Though thn fowign languagn rnquiwnwnt demands only thrPP snmnstnrs of any given language, which give students thn basie skills to sueenssfully communi­cate, professors encourage stu­dents to further their studies. 
Maureen Boulton, director of Notre Dame's program in 1\ngnrs, France, asserted, "t.hn difference between what a French major learns and what you learn in thn language requirnment is eomparablc to the difference between doing a freshman composition requirn­ment and a major in English." 
In ordnr to mally become pro­ficient and understand thn cul­ture, a pnrson nnnds to study the language more than thr<~e semestnrs, she said. 
"It's like a dinnnr party," Moevs said. "The language requirement is simply sntting thn tabln for dinrwr. Thn majors actually servo tho food so you ean rnally eat and enjoy dinner." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

SALON RoUGE 
Video shovvs deaths of tvvo Iraqis 
Men were beheaded on tape under suspicion of being spies for the U.S. 
Associated Press their hands tied behind their backs as a man standing off camera cut through their 
CAIHO, Egypt -A video neeks one by one, decapitating showing two Iraqi men being both men. beheaded for allegedly spying They identified themselves for the United States was post­in earlier scenes on the video ed on a militant Islamic Web as Shaker Mahmoud Jassim site Wednesday, and the Ansar who lived in the Dora neigh­al-Sunnah Army elaimed it borhood of south Baghdad. He had earried out the execu­wore a white Arab robe and tions. appeared to be in his mid-
The victims, lying faee 40s. down, were blindfolded with a The second vietim said he strip of white cloth and had was Hiyadh Najim Abdullah. 
He was in his 20s, wore a blue and white track suit and lived in the same part of tho capital. 
.Jassim said he worked as a spy for the U.S. 1\rmy and was paid $400 a month to report on insurgents. 
"I call on everyone who works with the Jews and the 1\mnrieans to repent to God and leave this job," Jassim said on instructions from two men who asked him questions off camera. 
He spoke clearly and appeared ealm during the questioning, before he was led outdoors. lie was made to lie faee down and his head was eut oiT and plaeed on his haek. 
Abdullah said he helped the Americans with information about a group of Saudi insur­gents and was paid $50,000 plus a monthly salary of $(tOO. lie said he also gave informa­tion on a group of insurgents who had inl'iltrated tho Iraqi police. 
"We have beeome slaves to money," he said bnfore he was taken outside and decapitated. As his head was placed on his back, the camera panned to a sign that read in Arabie: "Go to hell, this is a revenge for our brothers" was shown. 
1\nsar al-Sunnah has previ­ously elaimed responsibility for a number of ear bombings and attaeks on U.S troops, for­eign civilians and Iraqis that the group termnd American "collaborators." 
Dora is a densely populated neighborhood that serves as a stronghold for snvnral insur­gent groups. 
Wednesday's video was thn first in severed months to show a beheading. 


-------------------------------~ 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Par Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegardcn 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDIIDR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(S74) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comem, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, A~sisranr Managing Editors and department editors. C'A>mmentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob~rvcr (USPS 5992·4000) i5 pub!Uhcd Monday through Friday ao:pt during Clt;lm .Uld vac:uion period~. Asub$t'ription to The Ob~tvt't il' $100 forunc academic y<:ar; $)5 for one ~me:.ter 
Tite O~rver Is publi.~ho:d at: POSTMASTER 

fl24 South Dining Hall Send address corr«tiom ro: 
None Dame. IN 46556·0779 TheObscrvt!r 
Periodical pomgc paid at None O<tme P.O. Box 779 

Jnd JddiriomJ mailing offices. 024 SllU[h Dining Hall 
No~rt Dame, IN 465"5&-0779 
Tiu: Ohsc~r is a mcmhc:r ofthe Assochtt~ Press. AH reproduction rights .1re r~rv«i. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 6, 2005 
The law on drugs 
Timothy Leary was a Sixties radical, a revolutionary. Nixon called him the most dangerous man in America. From the perspective of the burgeoning counter­culture no greater endorsement could be imagined. 
But while the Weathermen and the Black Panthers advo­cated overthrowing the government by any means necessary (and violently for pref­erence), Leary was seeking a r-evolution of consciousness, and tho means he advocat­ed were hallueino­genic drugs. While lluey Newton said (quoting Mao) that political power came through the barrel of a gun, Leary enjoined the new genera­tion of young people to "turn on, tune in, and drop out," which quickly became one of the signature phrases of the age. 
After taking his Ph.D from the University of California at Berkeley, Leary went to Harvard wh1~re he found­ed the Psilocybin Project, whieh researched the therapeutic effects of hal­lucinogenic mushrooms and later LSD. In 1963 he was dismissed from Harvard but founded the Castalia Institute in Millbrook, New York to continue his studies, and as the Sixties continued he became the country's most prominent advocate of the beneficial effects of LSD. 
As Leary's notoriety grew he inevitably attracted the attention of the authorities who eventually busted him for posses­sion of marijuana and sent him to jaiL Leary was made to take a series of psy­chometric tests to establish where he should be placed within the prison sys­tem. The test results, surprisingly, identi­fied him as a strongly conformist charac­ter who would not attempt to escape. So Leary was assigned to a minimum secu­rity prison, from which he promptly escaped. 
It was one of the greatest jailbreaks of all time. Not because escaping from the 

Peter Wicks 
Englishman Abroad 

minimum security prison was especially diflicult; it wasn't. No, what makes it great is that the tests which resulted in his being assigned to a minimum securi­ty prison were ones that he had designed while on the faculty at Harvard. 
Leary was raised an Irish Catholic, but he didn't have much time for Catholicism or any other form of traditional monotheistic religion. But the tenor of his message was undeniably religious. He insisted that, used properly, psyche­delic drugs had a sacramental efTect and he composed a syncretistic theology which borrowed liberally from the I Ching, the Tibetan Book of the Dead and Shamanism -though calling Leary's views a theology probably makes it sound more systematic than it really was. Essentially, he surveynd difl'erent belief systems and seized upon whatever ideas seemed appealing, discarding the rest and seemed to regard the world's religions with much the same attitude that a man with the munchies takes towards the contents of his refrigerator. It was the spirit of the age. 
You can still find people, most conspic­uously in rave culture, who advocate the use of drugs in fundamentally religious tflrms. But no well-known figure has taken up Leary's mantle as prophet of the psychedelic revolution, and these days most of the arguments heard in favor of legalizing drugs are straightfor­ward appeals to the right to privacy; people should be free to pursue their pri­vate pleasures in any way they see fit, provided that they do not harm anyone else. 
The difficulty is that the boundary between public and private is rather more porous than this sort of argument typically assumes. This leads to prob­lems, particularly for those who simulta­neously advocate liberalizing drug laws and extending the government's support for the socially disadvantaged, through welfare, the provision of health care to those who cannot afford it and various other programs of government assis­tance. 
Since the public purse is filled through taxation, the more the state does to help those in need, the more interest the gen­eral public has in the ostensibly private choices of individuals. The public has an interest in matters of public expense, so if you wish to claim a right to have your health care provided by the state, then it should eo me as no surprise if the state claims a right to prevent you from ingesting substances that are likely to damage your health. In general. the more we expect from the state, th1~ more we can expect the state to regulate and interfere in our lives. I am not a libertar­ian on this issue, but it seems to me the libertarian position at least has the virtue of consistency. 
I do think a compelling case ean be made for the legalization of marijuana, based on pragmatic grounds rather than any absolute right to privacy. The health risks associated with the drug are not trivial. but they are far less sewre than most other illegal substances and com­parable to substances that are currently legal, most obviously tobacco. But most importantly, the current law is rarely and erratkally enforced, whieh courts the danger of arbitrary enforcement. 
In the ease of harder drugs, the prob­lem is less one of nrratie enforcement and more that in the case of the rich and famous, the laws are often not enforced at alL The endless stories of celebrity drug binges that saturate the media don't just cater to a voyeuristic appetite, they also broadcast the fact that amongst the luxuries available to the very rich is the freedom to break the drug laws with something approaching impunity. The rule of law depends upon the idea that laws apply to rich and poor alike, other­wise people will be punished not for doing cocaine, but doing cocaine and not being able to afford to spend time at the Betty Ford Center. 
Peter Wzcks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAV'S STAFF 

News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL
Megan O'Neil Mike Gilloon Joe Piarulli Kevin Brennan Alicia Conley Jay Fitzpatrick What are you doing for Viewpoint Scene 
the football bye week? 
Joey·King Liz Byrum Graphics Matt Hudson Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
1 

~· b .t Ltt. j
~u /mi ·a,e :er ~ 
"Only sick music makes money today." 
Friedrich Nietzsche

to tbe Editor at 1*
• • •••• ,., •• ·····' •• w ,. •• • • •• ... • 
philosopher

www.ndsmcobserver.com ~ 
. I f 
THE 0HSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 6, 2005 page I I 
Faith in the workplace 
It's been a busy week for the Suprt~mn Court. They opmwd thn 2005-2006 snssion on Monday, with rookie Chid .lustien .John Hoberts prnsiding. At the same time, tho jus­liens 111 ust be spnnding sonw of Kate Barrett tlwir l'ren timn won­dering about FailhPoinl llarriet Minrs. l'n~sidnnt (;norgn W. Bush's nominee to rill .Justien Sandra Day O'Connor's sPat. 
Closnr to honw, we enlnbratnd tlw annual Hnd Mass at the Basiliea on Sunday, a liturgy at which Bishop .John I>'Arey and the other presidnrs and partidpants ashd the lloly Spirit to blnss in a particular way all those in tlw IPgal profession. The Hod Mass lakes pla1:n each year, not l:oincidnn­tally, on the Sunday prior to the op1Hl­ing of llw Suprnnw Court's eurrnnt session. Also on Sunday, in faet, Bush at.tnndml tlw 52nd annual Hed Mass at St. Mattlww's Catlwdral in Washington, D.C. with Holwrts, who is Catholic. 
Against till' backdrop of those nvnnts, wn might spend some time eonsidoring this juxtaposition of faith and professional life. The question of 
lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Defending the military 
i\s a child of an Air Force fam­ily, I take personal issue with Michael Schorsch's Oct. 5 letter '"War Culturn' tlw wrong path." First of all, Schorsch shows no knowledge of or appreciation for the Catholic Church's rich tradition of tlw just war theory. It is the Church's position that war ean be justilind as a last rosort in order for a nation to right a wrong. Schorsch chooses to gloss over this point in his let­ter. 
Secondly, the people that Schorsch wants to "pray for" so that thny "will stop teaching_ ... false llmehings that are so con­trary to the mind of Christ" are doing Uwir job so that he can continue to voiee his opinion against tlwm. My father smvnd for livn months in Iraq, and I know dozens of' other men and women who have willingly given up comfort and home to serve our country. The least we can do is show a little appreciation for their saerilien. 
Thirdly, Schorsch uses the fnast of St. Francis as a tool to push his agenda. Sinen when an; Church f'nasts supposed to lw fodder for political agendas? Sdwrseh pulls a feast out of' its context as a day to rnrnernbm St. Franeis and uses it as an nxeuse to rant about th~1 "wrongs" of' a standing army. 
So, while Schorsch may pray that the p1~ople in HOTC and the military will stop their work, I pray that they eontinue their selfless acts so that people everywlwre, including Sehorseh, havn the right to spoak out and be heard. 
John Busch 
freshman 
Fisher 
Oct. 5 

how much of a role our faith should play in our professions has been end­lessly debated and an answer is almost nover agreed upon -as we can tell by listening to political candi­dates during eaeh election cyelo. Consultants reeoive large sums just to tell these e<mdidates how much is too rnueh or too little when bringing their roligious beliefs into their campaign­ing. 
Hoborts nover had to campaign for his new job, unless you count his Senate hearings. In a session on Sept. 13 before the. .Judieiary Committne, Senator Dianne Feinstein asknd thon­eandidate Hoberts if he believed in an America whnrt~ the separation of church and state is absolute. Hoberts replied that the First Amendment guarantPed both no imposing of reli­gion as well as its free exercise. lie eoneluded by stating, "I do know this, that my faith and religious beliefs do not play a rolo in judging." 
Though Notre Dame graduates arn well reprnsnnt1~d in public offices of all kinds across tlw country, probably most of us will no( become elected or appointed public servants. We should, howovnr, not hesitate to enter tho fray and ask ourselves how and when we might bring our own beliefs to bear in our workplaces. No matter which way you look at it, Ameriea has always been and will probably Clllllin­ue to be a n1ligious country. A rnli­gious sense (whether connected to a particular church, synagogue or mosque or not) remains just beneath the surfaen of our lives at all times, except in particular moments when it bubbles up in a more public way. Perhaps we ought not be afraid to bring the values of our faith to bear on the professional decisions we will make over the noxt, well, forty or so years, for those of' you who are sen­iors. 
Examples of those who have disre­garded even basic moral teachings become headline news: did Dennis Kozlowski really regard the tenets of any faith tradition when he and his buddies stole $600 million from his own company, Tyeo; $1,000,000 of which he used to throw his wife a birthday party? And yet. outrage at the scandals that brought down Tyco, WorldCom, Enron and others has led to a morn explicit welcome for moral and faith-based formation as part of many professional training programs. 
Honald Alsop wrote reeently in The Wall Street .Journal that more and morn "[Businnss schools! are offering courses dealing with spirituality and personal fulfillment in tlw workplace. What they want to teach students is the importance of' remaining true to thnir convictions-whethnr rootml in organized rnligion or personal moral­ity-amid the many eonflieting demands and temptations tlwy will likely confront during their earners" (.Jan. 11, 2005). 
Whother you are reading this as a first year studnnt who's so far from a career decision you're just thankful you don't have to dnelare a major ynt, or a senior who already has your plans laid out or a veteran at your chosen career, you probably have opportunitins bnfore you every singl11 day in which tlw values and bnlillfs of your ndigion can inl'lunnee your choiees. Make the most of each and every one of them. 
Kate /Jarrett is the !Jireclor t~{ Resources and .C.,'pecial Projects for Campus Ministry..'ihe can be contact­ed at Barrett.2R@'nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The ObsertJer. 
U-WIRE 

Textbook prices climb 
Of all the costs included in a college education, the most galling for many students are those $1 00-plus price tags on so many or their textbooks. 
The near unanimous opinion of stu­dents interviewed is that the books are "a Patrick huge rip-off, a seam," Kerkstra as Temple University junior Stella Levin University of 
puts it. Cincinattie 
Textbooks and News Record school supplies now eost undergraduates, on average, nearly $900 a year, and their price has gone up at more than twice the rate of' in!1ation since 1986, aeeording to a new report by the Government Accountability Office. 
Little wonder then that the annual textbook lament is now in full throat at Temple, St. Joseph's, West Chester and other local eolleges and universities where classes started recently. 
"It is a purchase nobody wants to make," said Frank Henninger, manager of the Villanova University bookstore, as he tried to explain why students so despise buying textbooks. "When stu­dents pay tuition, they think they're buying an education. Textbooks-they just don't sec those the same way." 
Over the years, many student activists have blamed publishers for the high priecs. But publishers just as often point to professors, because they pick the books. Professors say that their choices arc limited and that the retail markups are too high. And retail­ers fault both for being indifferent to student complaints. 
Textbooks constitute just a fraction of' the total cost of a four-year college education, which averages dose to $50,000 at public schools and more than $110,000 at private ones, accord­ing to College Board estimates. Yet many students say it's hard for them to shake the foeling that they are some­how being taken, especially when they have to dip into their own wallets to pay for the books. 
But their sense of outrage springs from a host of mistaken assumptions, according to the textbook publishing industry. 
"Textbooks are not mass-market nov­els. They are expensive to produce, and the markets are very small. It's basic math. If it costs a lot to publish them and you don't sell many, you have to charge a lot for each one," said Bruce Hildebrand, a spokesman for the Association of American Publishers. 
But students and consumer groups suspect there is more to the high prices than that. They allege that publishers drive up their profits by bundling their books with unnecessary supplements, such as study guides and CO-ROMs, to justify higher prices. Another com­plaint is that publishers release new editions of books too frequently, limit­ing the supply of used books available on campus and elsewhere. 
"It seems like they have a new text­book every year, and it's just minor changes. But it still means you can't sell your old book or buy a used one," said Joe Parisi, a senior engineering student at Villanova. 
This month's GAO report confirmed some of those accusations. Publishers told the GAO that new editions now tend to be released every three to four years instead of every four to five years. Consumer groups and some bookstore managers say the real figure is doser to every two years. 
But the prineipal eause of higher textbook prices, aecording to the GAO report, is the "enhanced offerings" that publishing companies are now invest­ing in. These inelude study guides, workbooks, Web site memberships and software for students, but also teaching packages for professors course plans, lesson guides, dass assessment sort­ware and so on. 
Students say thHy rarely, if Hver, use the supplemental materials. But because the extras are typically bun­dled with the required textbook, they generally havH no ehoiee but to buy them anyway. 
"You never open them," Levin said. "Nobody does." 
Publishers do acknowledge that sup­plements are inereasing prices. Still, they say, it's what their customers demand. 
It's a defense that points to a major quirk of the textbook business. Students are the ones who buy the books, but professors are the industry's true customers. They're the ones who select what books will be used in elass, and many demand top-notch texts with all the extras, even if that increases costs, Hildebrand said. 
"Professors have all those options, and they ask, 'What will work for my students? Is it going to be the $25 black-and-white edition or the full­color hardcover, recently-updated with extra tools and study guides?' Wo're just meeting demand." 
When choosing books, some profes­sors do take cost into aeeount. But oth­ers said there was usmdly little dif'f'nr­enee between the priec of a high-quali­ty book and a less satisfactory onn. 
"Generally speaking, I ignore the price," said David Dalton, a ehmnistry professor ·at Tem pin. "That doosn 't mean I'm insensitive to it; it just means I don't havo an alternative. It's lik!~ gas stations. The priee is almost thn same wherever you go." 
Students willing to work at it can save some money. Online sellers now compete with campus stores, other sites help students trade their books with other students who need tlwm, and in some limited eases the books are available in nleetronic form for substantial savings. 
It's a model that publishers are exploring aggressively, llildnbrand said. 
But even if e-books drive priees down, he doesn't nxpeet the eomplaints to end. On the wall in his Washington office is a student demonstration poster protesting book prices. 
It's from a rally at Columbia University-in 1928. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 3 issue of The News Record. the daily publication at the University of Cincinalli. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Obserller. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, October 6, 2005 
CD REVIEWS 

'All the Right Reasons' has it all wrong 
By CHRIS McGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 

If you liked any of Nickelback's previ­ous albums, it is almost a guarantee you will enjoy its most recent effort, "All the Right Reasons." 
If you think the album is solid because it is a strong musical effort ­expanding Nickelback's capabilities and ranges -then you are most definitely wrong. 
This album will be a must-have for any Nickelback fan for only one reason. It sounds exactly like every other Nickelback album. 
Borrowing a page from every other cookie-cutter rock group, Nickelback seems to have found its way to the cut­ting-room floor and pieced it together to create a sort of pseudo-head-bash­ing-oh please turn it off now-mess. 


and confusing.

Recommended tracks: 'Far Away/'All the Right 
And, albeit 

Reasons,''Rockstar' and 'Next Contestant' briefly, the musi­cal talent of 
As for lead-singer Chad Kroeger, his vocals sound strained, forced and alto­gether silly as his already overdone voice is synthesized electronically. He shouts lyrics like "Is that your hand on my girlfriend? Is that your hand? I wish you'd do it again, I'll watch you leave here limping" from the seventh track, "Next Contestant." 
At times, "All the Right Reasons" sounded similar to a previous Nickelback album as, at times, there was trouble distinguishing when one song ended and a new one began. With the exception of tracks such as "Photograph," every song follows the same two formats: 1) cue drums, cue cliche driven rock guitar riffs or 2) cue cliche driven rock guitar riffs, cue drums. 
There are a few bright spots on the album, mainly the sixth song, "Far Away." On this track, Nickelback defies its normal genre and creates a song with care­fully written lyrics and solid musical arrangement. Nickelback gen­erally avoids the mistakes it makes on previ­ous songs by not doing anything overly ornate 
Nickelback shines on "Far Away" through all the fluff that obscures most of the other tracks' musical vision. 
Unfortunately, Nickelback slips back into the same rut on track seven, which is apparently the place angry-love-rock goes to die. 
The lone effort that stands out among. tracks eight to 11 is No. 10, which seems to have hints of outside musical influences, bordering on country, rock and pop flavors. It's nearly a success. 
But the rest of the album remains obscure, with homogenous music blending one song into the next. 
This pattern continues until the final track, "Rockstar." The song's message seems to either explain Nickelback's attempts at success or to make the proclamation that rock stars typically have the wrong reason for pursuing musical careers. Either way, the song lands somewhere in between and is clearly a weak attempt at an anthem. 
On an overall disappointing album, Nickelback does show they have musi­cal talent. However, the musicians' application of that disappears behind cliche rock. Stranded somewhere between pop-rock and hard-rock, "All the Right H.easons" clearly has it wrong. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl @nd.edu 
'The Corpse Bride' soundtrack is average Elfman 
By MICHAEL ZACHARY MYERS 
Scene Critic 

Many people go to the movies because of the director or the actors, but in this ease, a few may go because of the com­poser. Danny Elfman. 
"The Corpse Bride" soundtrack, remi­niscent of his "Nightmare Before Christmas" score, is a solid work. The Elfman approach to composing has evolved enormously since the "Nightmare" days -there is a musical creativity in the use of harmonies and melodic interplay, combined with less emphasis on thematic material, that creates this cheerful yet dark fairy tale style. 
The score is a mostly instrumental undertaking, interspersed with four vocal numbers, sung by both the living and the dead in this animated story of love between a young man and a corpse that can walk, talk, sing and dance. Elfman has the gift of producing music that expertly supports the story and visual elements of the movie. Especially when the movie is the work of Tim Burton. 
By itself, Elfman's music is strange, off the wall, even absurd. His score for "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" was his most eccentric yet -his musi­cal enhancement of synchronized swim­ming "Deep H.oys" is bound to give even the stoutest little kid nightmares. And yet, the ability he has to mesh the music with the visual is what makes Elfman stand out in the world of film scorers. 
Of the instrumental music, the two numbers that stand out the most are the piano solo and duet: "Victor's Piano Solo" and "The Piano Duet." "Victor's Piano Solo" is a perfect statement of the style and theme of the movie, and "The Piano Duet" expands on this. The rest range from a gothic strings feel to pop­ping jazz and orchestral swells, often mixing together and producing a nice effect. All in all, the instrumental music is pure and typieal of Elfman -solid, yet nothing spectacular. 
The treats in Danny Elfman's sound­tracks are always his songs. The "Oompa Loompa" songs in "Charlie and the <:_:hocolate Factory" were examples of his outstanding work in that sound­
track and this follows, but not quite as strongly, in "The Cor­pse Brfde." "Accoqling to Plan" explains the background and sets up the living world. Elfman wrote this as a typical duet, something seen on stage that is unexciting and even kind of drab. 
This was his 

intention -it accurately emphasizes Tim Burton's portrayal of the living. On the other hand, "Remains of the Day," sung by the dead, is exciting and pop­ping -as is the world of the dead, which is surprisingly full of life. 
"Tears to Shed" is delightfully humor­ous and shows us the Corpse Bride's struggle. The best song of the bunch is "The Wedding Song," which is per­formed by the dead and could almost be called chaotic, yet is expertly done. Melodies are mixed with a women's cho­rus singing in harmony, only hinting at the wedding march until it comes out with full force at the end with all the voices combining en masse. 


Fans of "The Nightmare Before Christmas" will find some segments sim­ilar, such as comparing the jazz seg­ments to Oogie Boogie's song. While still solid material, the jazz segments don't feel quite as original when placed in that context. 
Overall, the soundtrack will appeal more to the hardcore than the casual fan of Elfman. While there are some interesting songs, and the jazz segments are worth listening to, the overall tone of the compact disk is merely average Elfman. 
Contact Michael Zachary Myers at mmyers 1 @nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, October 6, 2005 
page 13 
CD REVIEWS 
Wolf Parade gains popularity in Indie rock craze 
Paisley's ne-w album is definitely 'Time Well Wasted' 
Pholo courtesy of lhalscountry.com Brad Paisley's fourth album was released this year. He made his first appear­ance at the Grand Ole Opry In 1999 and was Inducted as a member In 2001. 
Paisley finally seems to fall into his own .eomfortable slot in country music. Although his style on "Time Well Wasted" is not significantly differnnt from that on his previous works -like his most recent, Mud on the Tires (2003) -Paisley continues to show growth and seems more at ease in his own chart-topping shoes. 
llis talents as a songwriter and musi­cian shine through on "Time Well Wasted," leaving little room for the !luff that was present on his other albums. Instead of focusing in one distinct direction for each song, the words and meanings bnhind them !low effortlessly. Although, unlike many albums, it only takes one listen of this disc to infer Paisley's message. 
"Time Well Wasted" showcases Paisley's signature talent of combining beautiful ballads with comical twists at just the right times. lie addresses a 
woman's tenden­
By MICHAEL FRENCH 
Scene Criric 
What's the best way to avoid relapse from sizmtbln nwdia hype antieipating tlw n>IIHtsn of your debut album? Put togntlwr a collodion of a dozen or so outstanding songs and lnt tho musie speak for itself. 
That's what Tlw Strokes did in 200 I -allwit tlw nwdia frenzy preemling tlwir first n•leasn far surpassed any hand si ru:p -and that's what Wolf Paradn has donn with tlwir dnbut LP "Apologins to tlw Qunnn Mary." 
Brnd from tho loins of thn phnnomr.­nally succnssful Frend1-Canadian indr.­pnndnnt musie sennn and produced by Modnst Mouse's frontman Isaac Brock, the hand's first rnlease shows potential it's IHtsy to get exdtnd about. After the acelairn for thnir dnbut received by tourmates The Arcadn Firn, our neigh­bor to tho north has become the new Mneea for all things indie. 
Bands sueh as Broken Soeial Seene, the now dnfunet Unieorns, Death From 

By LIZ BYRUM A"isranr Scene Ediror 
Thnn~ was a nnw antlwm for drinknrs all owr tlw U.S. this past surnnwr. Brad Paislny's singln. "Alcohol," reaehed the top or tho charts and played at parties and bars throughout thn eountry. This song took a uniqun pnrspeetivn, as Paislny sang along with a melodic twang from llw vinwpoint or the alcohol itself'. 
As nntnrtaining as this song may be, it is just tlw beginning for Paisley's most rnePnt album, "Tinw Wnll Wasted." The album. released on Aug. 16, takes country fans through a range of' enw­tions with a pnrf'eet mixturn of' old­school eountry twang, beautiful melodins and comndy sprinkled in between. 
On his fourth and best solo CD yet, 

cy for lateness in an endearing
Time Well Wasted 
way on the senti­
mental ballad "Waitin' on a
Brad Paisley 

Woman." Paisley's rela­tionship with his 
• 
Arista Nashville wife, Kimberly Williams Paisley
i%%~ 

(on the sitcom "According to Jim"), seems an obvious influence
Recommended tracks: 'Alcohol,"Gorze,"Crack Music' 
on his song writ­ing. In songs like "Love is Never 
and 'Diamonds from Sierra Leone' 
Abov1~ 1979 and the New Pornograplwrs -among countless oth­ers -have created much ol' the most memorable music or the past several years. Building off his band's runaway hit "Good News !'or People who Love Bad News," Brock has lert. a rather indelible mark on one of the host rnleasos of 2005. 
Whiln tho album carries echoes of Modest Mouse's mid to late 'IJOs albums, tnt's not get carried away with comparing the two bands for fear of diseounting the undeniable quality of "Apologies to the Queen Mary." The main formula for Wolf Parade's sound is by no means revolutionary -drums, guitar, piano and keyboards comprise the majority of the instrumentation in tho 12 traeks. The key to the outstand­ing sonic texture is the often subtle, though at times potent, electronic ele­ments that give the quartet a unique and rieh sound that consumes the lis­tener from the opening drum beat to the final lyrics of the last song. 
The vocals of Spencer Krug and Dan 
Boeckner, who faithfully share singing duties every other song through the first seven songs, chant certain lines repeatedly to form the lyri­cal backbone of each song. Upon initially noticing this, one would likely assume that the two songwriters lack any sort of ere-. ativity, but the · pontic quality is undeniable in 
courtesy of spin.com 
Wolf Parade members, from left to right, D. Boeckner, Arlen Thompson (bottom), Spencer Krug and Hadje Bakara, formed their group In 2003 in Montreal. 
spite of the repetition. 
On what is likely the strongest track of the album, 'Til Believe in Anything," Krug's voice echoes the lines, "If I could take the fire out from the wire, I'd share a life and you'd share a life" and, "I said nobody knows you, and nobody gives a damn" to create the sort of anthem any angst:riddcn ex-boy/girlfriend could shout along to with the windows down and the stereo cranked up. 
The only lowlight -which is only marginally lackluster-is the direction­less meandering of' "Dinner Bells." The drawn out seven and a half minute penultimate track starts off well, pro­viding a down-tempo eontrast to its pri­marily quickly moving counterparts on the album. Once the heart of the song ends, the band goes into a slow-paced, more nlectronieally driven instrumental interlude that hints at a nieo ambient sound, but comes across as little more than Iiller. This, however, dons crnatn the impression that the final traek, "This Heart's on Fire," is an nneore per­formance in whieh the band returns to the stage, reemerging from their dark, elcetronic cavn to deliver ynt anothnr patently unique Wolf Paradn pnrfonn­anee. 
Summing up thnir last track -and the album as a whole -Bonckner declares, "Sometimes they rock and roll, I'd rather stay at homo in real lifo" as their final act of contrition to tho Queen Mary. 
Contact Michael French at mfrench 1 @nd.cdu 

Ending," "She's Everything" and "The World," he belts lyrics of love. The songs are sweet enough to make a girl swoon but not quite over the top enough to make the skeptic gag. 
Paisley's lightnr side comes out in the song "Flowers," which mocks a man's feeble attempts for reeonciliation using !lowers. The chorus sums it up with the lyrics "Stop the endless killing I Can't you hear the roses cry I I've asked you to forgive me at least nine dozen times I Tell me how many flowers have to die." 
Brad Paisley began his song-writing career when he was just 12 years old. He counts George Jones, George Strait and Alan Jackson as some of his great­est influences. These legends' influ­ences are evident in "Time Well Wasted." 
One of the highlights of listening to a Paisley album is also the chance to hear the beautiful ducts he dons with some of country's greats. "Timn Well Wasted" is no exception, with ducts featuring Alan Jackson, Dolly Parton and a small snippet from Pat Green. 
Paisley's new album has already reached No. 2 on Billboard's Top 200 Chart, but it's doubtful thn aecoladns will stop there. 
If Paisley continues to release singles that cause a stir like "Alcohol," it's a pretty good bet he'II bn spnnding more time on the stages of award shows, and maybe even get another stint on coun­try's largest stage, the Grand Ole Opry. 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 6, 2005 
MLB PLAYOFFS-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Red Sox crown threatened as White Sox roll 
Rodriguez, Yankees fumble opportunities and allow Angels to even series at one 
Associated Press Buehrle and rookie Bobby 
Jenks. 

CHICAGO -Tadahito Iguchi Grafl"anino hit a one-out dou­put the Chicago White Sox with­ble in the ninth, but Jenks got in a win of the ;\L championship the save by retiring Johnny series and pushed the Boston Damon on a foulout to the Red Sox into a familiar position: catcher and Edgar Renteria on playing with no margin for a groundout. error. Wells, who dropped to 10-4 in 
Iguchi hit a go-ahead, three­postseason play, allowed just run homer after a deflating two hits through the first four error by Red Sox seeond base­innings. man Tony GraiTanino, and the After the White Sox scored White Sox rallied for a 5-4 vic­twice in the fifth and closed to tory Wednesday night to take a 4-2, Graffanino let Juan Uribe's 2-0 lead against the defending potential inning-ending, double­World Series champions in their play grounder go through his AL playoff series. legs -bringing up memories of 
"I can't really put a rank on it, first baseman Bill Buckner's but the fact I was able to hit the error on Mookie Wilson's homer in my first year, I'm very grounder in Game 6 of the 1986 happy," Iguchi said through a World Series against the New translator. York Mets. 
Iguchi, a 30-year-old major "I didn't get a good read on it. league rookie who played eight I just took my eye off it. I just seasons in Japan and helped flat out missed it," Graf'f'anino the Fukuoka Daiei Hawks win a said. pair of Japan Series champi­One out later, Iguchi hit a onships, connected off David three-run homer to left. Wells to cap Chicago's second "I just think we gave them an five-run inning in as many extra opportunity, and they games. made us pay for it," Francona 
"One of the biggest reasons said of Grafl"anino's misplay. "I we are here is because of think he understood the impor­Iguchi," White Sox manager tance of who's running and Ozzie Guillen said. "He moves being quick, and he tried to be the guy over, he runs for me, he a little too quick." counted," Angels manager Mike and Gary Sheffield's RBI bouncer hit off the webbing of makes the plays, he hits home Carl Everett started the fifth Scioscia said. "We caught a grounder in the ·fifth, Angels his glove for an error, and runs, he runs the bases right. with a single and scored from break with that ball (by A-Rod). third baseman Chone Figgins Molina singled Cabrera home This kid does everything for the first when Aaron Rowand dou­I think the lights got Alex at dived toward the foul line to with two outs. The rally monkey team and that's why I keep on bled into the left-field corner. third base.... But the two-out make a backhanded stop on a the Angels so relied on through­saying he's my MVP." Rowand moved up on a hits have been there all year for hard-hit ball by Hideki Matsui out their 2002 title run immedi­
Games 3 and possibly 4 are at grounder before Joe Crede sent us, and tonight we got them." to end the fifth with Jason ately began jumping around on Fenway Park on Friday and an RBI single through the box New York went 1-for-9 with Giambi on third. the big screen. Saturday. A fifth game, if neces­to make it 4-2. runners in scoring position -Juan Rivera homered leading "We definitely needed to get sary, would be at Chicago on 0-for-8 after Robinson Cano off the bottom half against one here," said Lackey, who Sunday. Angels 5, Yankees 3 doubled in the first run -and Chien-Ming Wang, the first made his first postseason start 
"The perspective is we're When their offense failed made three errors that led to Taiwanese player to start a since winning Game 7 of the down 0-2.... I'd rather have it them this season, the Los three unearned runs. postseason game. 2002 World Series. "It's a tough the other way," Boston manager Angeles Angels scratched out "It's costly," Rodriguez said. Then, with Bernie Williams on place to play back there, Terry Francona said. "The com­victories with strong pitching "In postseason, you can't make second base in the sixth, Jorge although we're definitely not fort I have is our ability to play." and sparkling defense. mistakes. You kind of knew that Posada hit a grounder down the intimidated." 
After a 19-8 loss to the New That combination worked once that play wasn't made, first-base line that Gold Glove The Angels went ahead in the York Yankees in Game 3 of the again Wednesday night against they were going to score some­first baseman Darin Erstad seventh on Cabrera's two-out, AL championship series a year the Yankees in the AL playofl"s, how -even after two outs. knocked down and flipped to two-run single off Wang, and ago, the Red Sox won eight and this time they also got a That was as routine of a play as pitcher John Lackey, who went Molina homered in the eighth straight games to capture their few key hits. it could get. I looked down and I to his knees at first to make the off AI Leiter -Molina's second first World Series title since Orlando Cabrera, Bengie couldn't believe it wasn't in my grab with his back to the plate. homer in as many nights -to 1918. Boston has won eight of Molina and the Angels' slick glove. But you have to move on. Williams was stranded when make it 5-2. its last nine games when facing gloves helped Los Angeles pull You can't dwell on it." Derek Jeter grounded out "Bengie Molina is. probably postseason elimination. even with the New York. The Angels, in contrast, saved against Scot Shields. one of the best clutch hitters in 
"Last year was last year; this Cabrera scored the tying run one or two runs with their "Give those guys credit," said baseball," Figgins said. "He has nothing to do with last after a costly error by Alex gloves. Rodriguez, 0-for-5 in the series always seems to get it done." year," Boston's David Ortiz said. Rodriguez and hit a go-ahead Now the series shifts to and 2-for-22 in his last six play­Posada hit a solo homer in the "We made a comeback, but it single, Molina got two big hits Yankee Stadium, where Randy ofT games. "Figgins made one of ninth against Francisco was last year." and the Angels beat the Johnson starts for New York on the greatest plays I've ever Rodriguez, who got his first 
The Red Sox, 14-2 losers in Yankees to tie their best-of-live, Friday night against Paul Byrd. seen, and Erstad made another postseason save. That was the. Tuesday's opener, took a 4-0 first-round series at one game The Big Unit flew-back early to great play." only hit off the Angels' bullpen, lead in the third, then were apiece. get ready. Los Angeles tied the score in with Kelvim Escobar pitching shut out on three hits for the "On the offensive side, we did­With New York leading 2-0 on the bottom of the sixth when two hitless innings between final six innings by Mark n't have many hits, but they all Cano's second-inning double Rodriguez let Cabrera's leadoff Shields and Rodriguez. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content withour issuing refunds.  
NOW HIRING Have a car? Need  7732182203GREAT HOUSES  Rooms in private home for rent dur- BUY/SELUTRADE OR SWAP ND  
LOST AND FOUND  some extra cash? Jimmy John s is hiring drivers for all shifts. Contact  GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS andersonNDrentals.com  ing ND football weekends or other ND-SMC events. Call243-0658.  TICKETS  FOOTBALL TIX. 289-8048.  
Chuck at 286-0299.  NEED USC & TENN TIX & PARK­ 
FOUND: Pair of Oakley glasses  HOMES FOR RENT  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  lNG PASS. 574-276-8507.  
outside of Corby Hall on Friday, 9/30. Call Jack 276-0401 to identify  FoR SALE  KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAILABLE  Bedrooms includes all utilities,local phone, washer/dryer, security sys- TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570.  A FARM FAMILY NEEDS 2 OR 4  
and claim.  RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS UP TO  tem. $400/student. Office 234-9334,  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  USC TIX. WILL PAY A FAIR PRICE.  
Elegant all brick 3bdrm home &  10 BDRMS.  Cell315-2509  289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB­ 654-0169 (local call)  
FOUND: Items of value near PE on  garage.Nicely remodeled, gorgeous  CLOSE TO ND.  ndstudentrentals.com  SITE FOR$$:  
Tuesday, 10/4. Call Barbara 243­ inside.1 mi to NO. $175,900. 283­ FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR.  www. victorytickets.com  Alum needs NO-USC tickets.  
1747.  0629.  CALL KRAMER  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  Please call Mike at 607-733-4590.  
FOR SHOWINGS- Bedrooms includes all utilities, local  BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT­ 
WANTED  1 bdrm condo near NO. All appli­ances. $69,900. Call Kim Kollar  OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315-5032.  phone, washer/dryer, security sys­tem. $400/student. Office 234-9334,  BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911.  PERSONAL  
574-280-8160. CENTURY 21 JIM  Cell 315-2509  
ALL STUDENTS  DUNFEE  YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart­ ndstudentrentals.com  WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Part Time Work $12.25 base/appt.  ments available for 06-07 school  Call203-261-8717 Jim.  not go it alone. If you or someone  
Flexible schedules around classes, Gain exp. in customer sales & serv- FoR RENT  year. Call today 235-7234.  ND HOME GAME WEEKENDS Very nice 3bdr home, fully fur- WANTED:ND-USC football tix.  you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
ice,  BLUE & GOLD HOMES. Best rates  nished,walk to ND. Garage+ 5 off- TOP$$$ PAID.  Gude, esc, at 1-7819. For more  
Conditions apply, all ages 17 &  Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect tor ND  tor weekend, monthly & yearly  street parking,gas grill. Open lease  CALL 574-232-2378 A.M.  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
older, Call Today 574-273-3835.  game weekends.  rentals. 574-250-7653.  alter. 283-0629.  574-288-2726 P.M.  THE OBSERVER.  

AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 6, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division l.nam record pts. last 10 New Jersey 1·0·0 2 1·0·0 NY Rangers 1·0·0 2 1·0·0 NY Islanders 0-1·0 0 0-1-0 Philadelphia 0-1-0 0 0-1-0 Pittsburgh 0-1·0 0 0-1-0 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
I.Pam rneord pts. last 10 Buffalo 1·0-0 2 1-0·0 Ottawa 1-0·0 2 1-0-0 Montreal 1·0·0 2 1-0-0 
Toronto 0-0-1 1 0-0-1 Boston 0-1-0 0 0-1-0 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
LPillll r<'<~ord pts. last 10 
Tampa Bay 1-0-0 2 1-0-0 Washington 1-0-0 2 1-0-0 Florida 1-0-0 2 1-0-0 Carolina 0-1-0 0 0-1·0 Atlanta 0-1-0 0 0-1-0 
Western Conference, Central Division LP1tlll rncord pts. last 10 Detroit 1-0-0 2 1-0-0 Nashville 1-0-0 2 1-0-0 Chicago 0-1-0 0 0-1-0 Columbus 0-1-0 0 0-1-0 St. louis 0-1-0 0 0-1-0 
Western Conference, Northwest Division l.narn mwrd pts. last 1 0 Minnesota 1-0-0 2 1-0-0 
Colorado 0-0·0 0 0-0-0 
Vancouver 0-0·0 0 0·0-0 
Edmonton 0-0·0 0 0-0-0 
Calgary 0-1-0 0 0-1-0 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
tnam r<~cord pts. last 10 
Anaheim 1-0-0 2 1-0·0 Dallas 1·0·0 2 1-0·0 Phoenix 0·0·0 0 0-0·0 los Angeles 0·1·0 0 0-1·0 San Jose 0·1·0 o 0-1·0 
Cross Country Polls 
Men's 
team 

1 Wisconsin 
2 Arkansas 
3 Colorado 
4 Brigham Young 
5 Stanford 
6 NOTRE DAME 
7 Arizona 
8 lona College 
9 Texas 
10 Iowa 
11 CP·SlO 
12 Georgetown 
13 UTEP 
14 Michigan 
15 William & Mary 
16 Ohio State 
17 North Carolina State 
18 Florida State 
19 Indiana 
20 Minnesota 
21 Air Force 
22 Portland 
23 Arizona State 
24 Kansas 
25 American 
Women's 
team 
Duke Michigan Stanford Brigham Young Illinois Arizona State Colorado NOTRE DAME North Carolina Stale Minnesota Wake Forest Arkansas Columbia Baylor Princeton Oklahoma State Michigan State Tennessee Georgetown Providence Butler Virginia Washington Northern Arizona Marquette 
1 2 
3 4 
5 
6 7 8 
9 10 11 
12 
13 
14 15 
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
NHL 


Associated Press 

The Great One made his debut behind the bench, the Next One had his com­ing out party in New Jersey and the defending champion Tampa Bay Lightning finally got the salute they waited more than a year to receive. 
In 15 cities around North America on Wednesday night, the NHL was back. 
While Wayne Gretzky coached his first game with the Phoenix Coyotes, 18-year-old Sidney Crosby -touted as the player to threaten many of Gretzky's seoring records -laced up his skates when the Pittsburgh Penguins faced the New Jersey Devils. 
All in the name of win­ning back fans after a year lost to the lockout. 
"''m probably as excited as anybody who is dress­ing and playing in a game tonight," said Gretzky, the holder of 61 NHL records. 
From coast to coast, the words "Thank You Fans!" were stenciled into NHL rinks. 
"I am so excited for things to be back -last year was horrible," said Amber Turbyne of Waldorf, Md., who attend­ed the Washington Capitals home game against Columbus. "I usually hold a grudge like something awful, but I'm too happy to have hockey back." 
Just down the New Jersey Turnpike, it was as though the Philadelphia Flyers never left. A sold out crowd was dressed in matching T-shirts just as they were 17 months ago for the "Orange Crush" during Game 6 of the Eastern Conference finals. 
The Flyers stretched the series to seven, but never made it back home as they fell to the eventual cham­pion Lightning. 
"I bleed the orange and black," said fan Brock Kcrchnnr from Mechanicsburg, Pa. "Was I disappointed'? Yes! But it's a new season and we've got Cup hopes." 
Down in Florida, Lightning fans got to cele­brate just as they did over a year ago as the Stanley Cup championship banner was raised -just much later than anyone antici­pated. 
A 10-minute ceremony commemorated tho almost forgott<~n season that pre­ceded thn long layoff. On display wnrn individual awards givnn to Lightning players, including Martin St. Louis' MVI' trophy, and thn one Brad Hichards took honw for his starring role in thn playoff run. 
IN BRIEF 
Still no change in MLB drugpolicy 
CHICAGO -Baseball and its play­ers are still negotiating over a tougher drug-testing agrnement, commission­er Bud Selig said Wednesday, one week al'ter union head Donald Fehr tostiliPd a new agreement could be in place before the end of the World Series. 
"There's been no change," Selig said while watching the first-round playofT game between the Boston H<~d Sox and Chicago White Sox. ''I'm very hopeful. We need to get it done." 
In an April 25 letter to the union, Selig called for a 50-game suspension for an initial positive test, a 1 00-game ban for second-time oll'enders and a lifetime ban for a third violation. But Fehr rejected that proposal, saying it was meant to quiet criticisms of base­ball's current policy, not deter steroid usc. Instead, Fehr said players are willing to accept a 20-game penalty instead of 10 days for first-time 
stnroid oiTenders along with tests for amphetamine use. Teen phenom Wie decides to turn professional 
HONOLULU -Sitting in a hotel suite overlooking swaying palms and the rolling Pacific surf', Michelle Wie leaned forward and gazed at the newspaper. The front page was a reminder of how far she's come and the expeetations that arc greater than ever. 
The llonolulu Advertiser ran four pictures of Hawaii's biggest sports sensation in the paper Wednesday. There she was at age 10 with chubby cheeks and a grown-up swing; at age 13 and 14 competing against the pros; and as a celebrity in a formal red dress at last year's Laureus Sports Awards in Portugal. 
The headline: "Why she's worth mil­lions." 
"I don't know why," Wie said softly. "But I'm going to try hard to live up to it." 
N.Y. Jets name Testaverde 
starting quarterback 
NliW YOHK -Vinny Testaverde is nearly 42 years old. lie has not thrown a pass in a rngular-snason game since January. On top of' all that, he has had about a wnok to learn tho Jots oll'onse. 
This is tho player coach llnrman lidwards has entrusted to help sav<~ the season. 
Edwards nanwd Tnstavnrdn his starting quartnrback Wndnesday. a move the dnsporate Jots hope can spark thnir l'loundnring ol'l'nnsn. Though Tnstavnrdn was on tho vnrgn of' n~tirmnnnt just a few wnnks ago, hn is now put in the tough spot of trying to do whatever lw <~an to got tho Jots some victories. 
I lis first start eomos Sunday against Tampa Bay, tho tnam that drafted him No. 1 overall in 11JR7. When he takes the field, he will be tho fourth-oldest quarterback to start a game in the Super Bowl era. 
around the dial 
MLB Padres at Cardinals 3 p.m., ESPN2 Astros at Braves 7 p.m., FOX 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

N.C. State at Georgia Tech 6:30p.m., ESPN 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 6, 2005 
NFL 

Rushing woes leave Titans looking for more 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -If it seems as if the Tennessee Titans just don't run the way they used to, it's because they haven't. 
The Titans have rushed 95 times in 235 offensive plays through the first four games. That's the lowest percentage of total plays since 1999, when they ran only 99 plays out of 243 in their first four and reached its only Super Bowl. 

Tennessee (1-3) hasn't had much opportunity to run so far this season because the Titans have trailed at halftime in each of their losses and had to throw to try and catch up. But coach Jeff Fisher wants to start run­ning the ball more. 
"That's one of the areas that has to improve," he said. 
The Titans are averaging a respectable 4.1 yards per carry, but haven't had the chance to get into any kind of rhythm on the ground. They ran only 29 times in their 25-10 victory over Baltimore on Sept. 18. 
Chris Brown has only 49 rushes for 210 yards this sea­son, including 20 for 83 in a 31-27 loss at St. Louis. At this time last year as the Titans' featured back, he carried 80 times for 408 yards. 
"That's every running back's thing: They want the ball," Brown said Wednesday. "You get a better feel. The more you go on, the more you get. Unfortunately, the way the games have played out, I haven't had as many carries as I did last year." 
Tennessee's best rushing sea­son easily was in 2000 when Eddie George set a career-high with 1,509 yards. Through four games that season, they already were running 48.2 per­cent of their plays in the near­perfect balance between pass and run. 
Brown, again the lead run­ning back with Travis Henry still suspended for three more games for violating the league's substance abuse policy, said he doesn't hit his rhythm until his fifth carry. By halftime of last weekend's 31-10 loss to Indianapolis, he had only eight. 
Henry is second on the team with 97 yards on 31 attempts, followed by quarterback Steve McNair (10-for-45). 
Phone 1-7800 
Main Office 
319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 
114CoMo 

Why do Christians celebrate Sunday as the 
Campus Ministry owes a special debt weekly ho'ly day, as opposed to Saturday? of gratitude to Molly Powers. Molly Most individuals with even a cursory understanding of Judaism and is in her second year as a student Christianity know that adherents to these faiths revere two different 
worker in Campus Ministry and has days as their weekly holy days. Observant Jews attend synagogue 
helped our staff members prepare 
services on the Jewish sabbath (Saturday), while most Christians look 
for more retreats and other projects 
to Sunday, the "Lord's Day," as the weekly day of worship. Howev­
than anyone on staff can remem­
er, since Christianity began as a movement within Judaism, why and 
ber. She has an uncanny ability to 
when did our weekly day of worship change? 
know exactly the best way to get a
The most important reason for the change of our weekly holy project done. In addition to her day 
day comes from our belief that Jesus Christ rose from the dead on the first day of the week, which is Sunday. Christians looked to Sunday time contributions to Campus Min­as the "Lord's Day," the day of resurrection. Thus, it seemed most istry, Molly has been involved in all reasonable and fitting to celebrate the Eucharist, as the commemora-· kinds of faith related service. Molly tion of Jesus' life, death, and (specifically) his resurrection, on Sun­has sung in the Folk Choir and has day. Some of the very earliest Christians indeed celebrated both the 
worked extensively with the Fresh­Jewish sabbath and the Lord's Day, attending synagogue on Saturday 
man Retreat program. She has also 
and then gathering to break bread at the Eucharist on Sunday. How­
worked with Freshman Peer Leaders 
ever, as.time passed and a more definite theological split developed 
and sang in the Four: 7 praise band. 
between Christians and Jews, Sunday indeed became the universal 
Molly has had to take some time off 
day of worship within the Catholic Church. from these activities though, because 
So, if we worship on Sunday, does that mean that we're not she is getting married next week! On
keeping the sabbath holy (Third Commandment) any longer? No, not at all! God commands us to rest after every six-day period. No October 15, Molly will become Mrs. where do we read in Scripture that this day is specifically tied to Jeremy Aranda. If you see Molly the day that we now call "Saturday." The Catechism ofthe Catho­before she graduates in December lic Church states that, for Christians, our ceremonial observance of make sure to congratulate her and Sunday actually replaces that of the sabbath: "In Christ's Passover, 
wish her luck as she and Jeremy Sunday fulfills the spiritual truth of the Jewish sabbath and announc­
head to Guatemala for a semester to 
-
es man's eternal rest in God" (CCC #2175). 
become fluent in Spanish. God bless 
Scriptural and early Church references show that Sunday 
you Molly on your life's journey and 
worship had become the norm of Christian celebration very early 
thank you for all you have done for 
on. In Acts 20:7, we read, "On the first day of the week when we here at Notre Dame! 
gathered to break bread ... ," showing that eyen during apostolic times Christians had already begun to transition to Sunday sabbathing. 
Let us know who out there 
And St. Ignatius of Antioch, writing in AD 110, stated that, "Those 
is making a difference! 
.who lived according to the old order of things have come to a new hope, no longer keeping the sabbath, but the Lord's Day, in which our 
Send nominations to 
life is blessed by him and by his death" (Letter to the Magnesians). 
Brian Vassel at Send uestions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.2 bvassel nd.edu 
Thursday, October 6, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Ml8 PLAYOFFS-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Ens berg, Houston chop Atlanta in Game One 
Victory ties Pettitte with Smaltz as winningest pitchers in playoff history 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Tho llouston Astros f'igurod thoir pitdting would havo to carry them through tho postseason. 
Instead, tho oiTonsn came LJP big in tho vory lirst gamo. 
Morgan l·:nshnrg had l'ivn HBis and :~9-yoar-old leadoff hittnr Craig Biggio was in the middlo or just about ovnry rally, lmuling llouston past thn Atlanta Braves 10-5 in Game I ol' their NI. playoff sories Wodnnsday. 
Andy Pnttilto ovnrcanw two homers to join Atlanta's John Smoltz as tho winningest pitelwr in postsnason history, a mark that Srnoltz ean roclaim for himself when ho gons against Hoger Clemons in (;anw 2. on Thursday. 
llouston is trying to beat the Bntv1~s in tlw oponing round for tho sncond ynar in a. row, but in a dncidodly dil'l'ornnt manrwr than tho pownr-hit­ting loam that pullod orr a livn-ganw triumph last year. 
That loam had Carlos Boltran. JolT Knnl and a hnalthy Jnl'l' Bagw1~ll. This loam is buill around tho starl­ing rotation: Pnltilln, Clmnnns and 2.0-game winnor Hoy Oswalt. 
"Obviously, wo had somn prntty big hats last yoar," Biggio said. "But this ynar's lirwup isn't so bad, nithnr." 
Tho Astros, who led the National League in EHA but rankod 11th in runs, had no troubln scoring on Tim lludson and tho shaky Braves bullpnn. llouston pncknd away with night singles, nine walks and two hit hatters. Throe doubles-onn or them by Pnttillo -worn tho only nxtra-basn hits. 
Tho Bravos wont with lludson for the opener instead of Smollz, who's boon both­ered by a stilT shoulder. Manager Bobby Cox figured Hudson was just as good a ehoicn, a former 2.0-gamo winner who pitehnd in four postseasons with Oakland. 
But tho right-hander was roughed up for live runs in 6 2.-3 innings-the most he had allowed since a June 13 loss at Texas, which prneeded a stint on the disabled list. 
"The lirst fow innings, I just overthrow it," said Hudson, who gave up seven hits, walkod l'ivo and hit a batter. "I made an adjustmont about the fourth and startod feeling protty good. But I took too long to makp, the adjustment." 
Pellittn, improving to 14-S in the postseason, pitched four-hit ball over seven innings -morn than good enough the way the Astros were hitting Hudson. 
"I was surprised we put the runs on him," Pettitte said. 

AP Houston's Morgan Ensberg slaps an RBI single during the seventh Inning of the Astros' 10-5 win over Atlanta Wednesday. 
''I'm not going to lin to you. 
lie's tough." 

Not on this day, and Ilouston turned a 5-3 game into a blowout with five runs in tho eighth, sending 11 batters to the plate against relinvers Chris Hnitsma, John Foster and Jim Brownr. 
Biggio played tlw role of leadoff hitter to perfection. lie had two hits, a sacrifice fly, a sac bunt and a walk in six trips to the plate. lie scored thrp,e times. 
Ensborg tied a llouston postseason record with his five HBis. lip, had a run-scor­ing single in the first, a two­run single in the third, anoth­er HBI single in the sevonth and walkod with the bases loaded in the eighth. Manager Phil Garner flip-flopped his lineup to get Lance Bet·kman hitting ahead of Ensberg, who dropped to the eloanup spot. The Braves walked Berkman three times -once intention­ally -and Ensberg made them pay. 
"There's virtually no pres­sure on me," Ensberg said. "The pitcher has got to throw it ovp,r the plate. I got some good pitches to hit in those situations." 
A yp,ar ago, the Astros knocked off Atlanta in the division series for the l'irst postseason victory in fran­chise history. Pettitte wasn't around for that one, sitting out aftor season-ending elbow surgery. Ho came back to have a dominant season, win­ning 17 garnp,s and posting the seeond-best EHA in the National League behind Clemens. 
Houston scored only 13 runs in six regular-season games against the Braves, losing five of those meetings -two by shut<iut. But those games came early in a season that began miserably for tho Astros, who bounced back to capture the wild card. 
Atlanta got homers from Andruw Jones and Chipper Jones-usually a formula for succoss. The Braves are 44-6 when both connect in a rogu­lar-season game. 

But this is the postseason, which has provided plenty of rnisory for a franchise with 14 straight division titles but only one World Series champi­onship during that amazing run. 
Tho Braves went down in tho oponing round the last three years, each time start­ing with a Game 1 loss at 


Turner Field. Now, they're in the hole again. 
"It's just a helpless feeling out there," Chipper Jones said. "You know if you score four or five runs against this caliber of ballclub, that's about as good as you're going to do. 
"For it to get out of hand the way it did in the eighth, it's frustrating." 
Atlanta even tried to change its playoff fortunes by ditching the normal white homo jersey in favor of a rfld top, which debuted this season and had been used only for Sunday horne gamos. 
It didn't work. lludson got off to a rough start. 
Biggio singled up the middle on the second pitch of tho game, movod to second on a bunt and carne horne on Ensborg's single to center. 
Chipper Jones tied it in the bottom half on an opposite­field homer to right, but tho Astros reclaimod the load with two runs in the third. 
Once again, Biggio got 
things startod -this time with a doubln-and Ensherg l'inished up with a two-run single to left. 
Biggio was at it again in the fourth. 
Brad Ausmus led ofT with a double and was buntnd to third before Uw leadoff hitter managed a sacrifice fly to medium center for a 4-1 lead. 
Hudson was actually fortu­nate that Houston didn't build a bigger lead. 
lie escaped the first-inning jam with a double play, and surprise starter Brian Jordan made a brilliant play in lel't l'inld in tho sp,cond to dnny Everett a two-run homnr. 
Jordan, who played only 76 games and was hobbled much of the season by a sore knee, dril'tnd back to the warning track, timed his leap pnrl'netly and caught the ball before his glove slamnwd into the yellow line atop the wall. 
Andruw Jones. who ended tho season in a 6-of-51 slump, brought the Braves to 4-3 with a two-run homor in the fourth. 

0 •• 
' 


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 6, 2005 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Twins compete at season's first slam 
Mixed results for ND sisters at competitive Tulsa tournament 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 

The Thompson sisters learned what grand slam tennis is all about this week at the ITA All­American championships in Tulsa, Okla. -upsets. 
The sisters competed in the singles qualifying rounds of the collegiate tennis season's first grand slam Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Christian Thompson made a run as an unranked player in the tournament, winning two match­es over ranked opponents before losing a three-set match to No. 50 Alexis Prousis of Northwestern. She was just one match short of qualifying for the main draw in singles. 
Catrina Thompson, No. 27 nationally and second in the qualifying tournament, suffered a first-round upset loss to Florida's Boglarka Berecz, also in three sets. She then bounced back to win two matches in the consolation draw. 
Assistant coach Michelle Dasso was pleased with the results despite the ups and downs both players experienced. 
"Christian played very well against the best competition in college tennis," Dasso said. "She was literally a couple of points away from qualifying. Catrina showed a lot of heart bouncing back from that tough loss. She fought cramps in that match and hasn't been feeling well the last two weeks. Winning those last two matches was huge for her 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


confidence." 

Christian Thompson's tourna­ment began Tuesday with a familiar face across the net, Georgia Tech's Kelly Anderson. 
Thompson had defeated Anderson 6-3, 6-2 Sunday in the pre-qualifying tournament to earn a place in Tuesday's qualifi­er. Anderson lucked into a place in the qualifier when Thompson's original opponent, Mississippi's Nika Koukhartchouk, withdrew due to injury. Tuesday's match was sim­ilar to Sunday's with Thompson again prevailing, this time by a 6-4, 6-2 score. 
Thompson played Arizona State's Sabrina Cappannolo in her next match. Thompson defeated the No. 37 player in the country 6-4, 6-2. Cappannolo was the highest ranked player to ever be defeated by an Irish jun­ior. 
Just one match from earning a place in the main draw, Christian Thompson faced Prousis, who defeated her twice last season. The two battled into the third set before Prousis emerged with a 6­4, 4-6, 6-2 victory. 
Dasso thought a few points determined the outcome of the match. 
"It seemed like every game went to deuce," she said. "A few points here and there, even in that last set when it was 6-2 and the result may have been differ­ent. It was defmitely a nail biter." 
Thompson's five wins this week (three in pre-qualifying and two in qualifying) all came against ranked opponent's. Thompson entered the season with just two wins over ranked players in her first two years with the Irish. 
"She's improved her all-around game and she's in a lot better shape," Dasso said. "The differ­ence in her conditioning is like night and day." 
Catrina Thompson suffered a disappointing loss in the opening round. She captured the first set and was up 3-0 in the second before cramps and dehydration took their toll on the Irish junior. She fought hard but fell 2-6, 7-6 (7-4), 7-5. 
Dasso thought Thompson experienced some nerves in her first match of the season and lost her aggression. 
"She got tentative when she took the lead in that second set and stopped coming to the net," Dasso said. "That combined with the cramps and some nerves gave her opponent an opening. The players are so good out here that when you give them an opening, they are going to take advantage ofit." 
Catrina Thompson scored her first wins of the year when she defeated Arizona State's Kady Pooler 6-3, 6-1 and Duke's Jackie Carleton 4-6, 6-2, 6-0 Wednesday in the consolation draw. Both players were ranked in the top-85 in the nation. · 
With singles play completed for the .sisters, the Thompsons will focus their attention on the main draw of the doubles tournament beginning Thursday. They are ranked No. 2 in the nation in doubles and finished second in the ITA All-American tourna­ment last season. 
Dasso said the sisters have been anxious all week. 
'They are fired up," she said. "We have been out here a long time and they are excited and ready to play." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Tournament will 
test Langenkamp 
Senior will compete at the prestigious ITA Championships 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

After taking top honors at the ITA National Summer Championships, Eric Langen­kamp is off to Tulsa, Okla., today to compete in the Polo Ralph Lauren All-American Championships. 
Langenkamp received a wild-card entry to the main draw with his win at the ITA tournament over the sum­mer. 
The tournament is the first leg of the collegiate grand slam. 
Langenkamp went 2-1 in the Tom Fallon Invitational held at Notre Dame the weekend of Sept. 23 to 25. He is ranked No. 89 in the nation. 
"Eric's hitting a bigger ball," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "He's less afraid to step up and go for his shots." 
Langenkamp is also teamed with Ryan Keckley on a tal­ented doubles team that knocked off two Top-25 teams at the Tom Fallon Invitational. 
Bayliss said Langenkamp has developed a great deal as a player during his time at Notre Dame. 
"One of the things Eric has always had going for him is speed and great defensive skills," Bayliss said. "When you play defense as well as he does, it's hard to give that up. When you become a more offensive player you're taking more chances, but you'll be able to reap the rewards of what you've cre­ated a lot more." 
According to Bayliss, Langenkamp has been work­ing on developing his offen-
W~t·w.slT "'"-: n.col<t 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, and faculty and staff ride all TRANSPO buses fare-free upon showing a current, valid identification card issued by the school. 
Pick up at 6 Locations (includ•ng Library, Regina Hall and University Village) on campus & runs every 30 minutes. 
g
HURRICANE KATRINA 
ASSISTANCE 

Come in and knit 9" X9" squares for blankets. Then we'll assemble and ship to The American Red Cross. 
~ 0 ~ • Every Thursday is THE Q,C. night at Sit &Knit ~he season premiere is Thursday, Sept 8th at7 pm CSl From 6-8:30 p.m. enjoy tree !attes, mochas and ftavored coffees. Bring your knitting or let us start you on anew one. 129 S. Michigan St. 574/232-KNIT Downtown South Bend between Ouizno and lePeep Hours: Mon-Thu 10-7 Fri-Sat 10-6 Sun Noon-6 

Observer File Photo 
Langenkamp delivers a backhand shot against Ball State April 9. 
sive skills for over a year. The coach also commented on Langenkamp's aggressive­ness. 
"He's playing up in the court, taking time from his opponent," Bayliss said. "If he continues to do this, he really can have a great tour­nament in Tulsa. 
"It's a beautiful facility and they've done a great job of promoting college tennis," Bayliss said. 
Tulsa is the site of the 2003 NCAA Championships. 
The annual tournament is the largest fall event in colle­giate tennis. 
The other big event is the National Indoor Tournament, which has a main draw of 32 players. 
"We've had many players in the All-Americas," Bayliss said. 
Out of 120 players who were invited to the event, five were Irish. 
Bayliss does not send play­ers who are not in the main draw due to scheduling issues. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
. ' 
. . 

Thursday, October 6, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Bulldogs take bite out of Belles 
Saint Mary's falls in just three games at MIAA rival Adrian 
By RYAN KIEFER Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's lost focus somn­whern on its way to Adrian WPdnesday. 
The Bolles playnd a sluggish match. losing in thrnn games to the Bulldogs :~0-15, 30-21, :m-1 S. 
Bellns' coach .Julie Sehroednr­Biek thought hnr tnam got iL-;nlf in trouhln narly. 
"Wn dug a lwln lilr oursnlvns," shn said. "Tiwy are a good tnam, one of thn top thrnt~ or lilur in the lnagun. It's tough when you gnt bPhind good teams." 
Adrian forced thn aetion mueh of thn night. The Bulldogs fna­turnd a powerful attack gamn, led by two-time MIA/\ playnr of the wonk Lindsny Esdwlman. 
Sehrond11r-Biek felt that her tnarn played adnquatn dnfonsn on Eschnlman. but that a lack of dntnrmination ultimately let the BP!Ins down. 
"It wasn't IEsehclrnanl that dnstroyml us," she said. "W11 blocknd and dug hnr wnll. In ecr­tain other arnas, how11vnr wn let go. Not nvnryonn played with 
lin~." 
Tho Bnllns' mach also said that hnr tnarn playnd as though they wnrn intirnidatnd by the Bulldogs and lacked mnlidnnce throughout tlw night. 
Kristnn Playko led the Bolles' oll"nnsn with 12 kills. Tho Bolles ran an adPquatn oll"ensivn gamn, hut left a number of poinL-; out on the court. 

"We didn't run our strongest oll"ense tonight," Schroeder-Biek said. "It was slow and scrambled and wn didn't do enough with the frne balls we got from them. Our communication was lacking at times as well." 
The loss moved the Belles to 8­11 on the season, 2-5 in the MIA/\. Saint Mary's will face Albion and Olivet at the Olivet Triangular Saturday before a rematch next Tuesday at home against the Bulldogs. 
Schroeder-Biek hopes that a better mental approach will lead to a dil"ferent result against Adrian next wonk. 
"II' everyone steps on the eourt' wanting to win, we can beat them," she said. "They are a very heatable toam. We definitely saw things tonight that we can take advantage of next week. There were a lot of things we didn't cap­italize on." 
Schroeder-Biek pointed out that Adrian left holes in their blocking that left the Belles opportunities fi1r kills. She was also skeptical of the Bulldog defense, saying her team "didn't make their defense move enough." 
The team's lack of cohesion also contributed to the loss Schronder­Biek said. 
"Our problems tonight need to be addressed on an individual basis," she said "Some players just didn't play with enough inten­sity tonight. It wasn't everyone, but we were lacking in certain arnas. Physically, each player has the ability to play well enough to win. Now, we need to work on the mental side of our game." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer I @nd.edu 


Concession Stand Training 
Thursday -x--x·october 6th ·lH<·12prn & 4pm 
Friday ·x·-x·october 7th ·X··X·12pm & 4pm 
Montgo1nery Auditoriun1 LaFortune Student Center
Each concession stand group must have at least two students trained 
*All training from the spring is still valid for the 2005 Football season 
Questions? Jennifer Rager 
Student Activities Offi.ce 
jrager~@nd.edu ..; ~ 
:~ 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL -GOLD LEAGUE 
Pyros and Finest chase second win 
Winless B.P. will face P. W.; Phoxes look for second straight win 
By TIM KAISER, 
FRAN TOLAN and 
JASON GALVAN 
Sports Writers 

Pasquerilla East's matchup against Farley tonight at 7 p.m. at Hiehle Field is an important game for both teams in their hunt for a playoll" spot. 
Farley is 1-3 and P.E. is 1·2. Both are looking for a win to secure a berth in postseason play. 
Both teams also have momen­tum coming oil" their first wins. 
P.E. notched itc; first victory by shutting out Brmm-Phillips last week, 18-0, and Farley's first win also carne against B.P. in a 19-6 drubbing of the Babes Tuesday night. 
Farley's oll"ense needs snnior quarterback Katie Popik to once again connect with the team's strong receiving corps, led by juniors Diann Duran and Annie Parmtt. Duran and Parrott oaeh caught one of Popik's three touchdown passes against the Babes. 
P.E. 
also comes into the game confident in its oll"ensn, which boasts a strong fleet of receivers, eaptain Megan Wysocki said. 

P.E. 
also believes it has the defense to stand up to Farley's high-powered passing attack. It came up with many big plays last week, most notably when Courtney Chen returned an interception liJr a touchdown. 


The team's leaders were pleased with the Pyros' perform­ance. 
"Last game we really played ac; a team," Wysocki said. "Both the oll"ensn and defensn played well, and we were very happy with the game. We're working hard on keeping it up." 
Farley's def'nnse played well la-;t week also, stopping tho B.P. offense on most of its drives. induding its l"inal two of tho game. After surrendering a touchdown to a B.P. n~eeiver early in the second half, the defense was able to hold tho load for iL-; tnarn and quickly put an ond to tho Babes' conwback bid. 
While Farley is still exeitnd about ilc; first win, and will most certainly enter this game just two days Ia tor full of conlidnnen, the P.E. team has not playnd in a week. 
Wysocki does not think this will be a problom, and her tnam is nager to build on its tirst victo­ry. 
"Our game got cancelled Thursday, so we're pumped to play after the long wait," she said. 
Pasquerilla West vs. Breen-Phillips 

Pasquerilla West and Brenn­Phillips enter tonight's game with different goals. P.W. heads into the contest after several cancelled games and a tough loss last week. Despite the recent setbacks, however, the players are looking forward to the season's stretch run. 
"Wn know that wn'll havn to win a li~w morn gamns to makP thn playolls," receiver Maureen Spring said. "But WI~ l"oel likP we'rn up to the dmllnngn." 
Bronn-Phillips, on the otlwr hand, stands at 0-:~ and is simply trying to linish tlw sPason on a positivo note. 
Babes captain Shannon Swanigan fnnls hnr squad's record is not indicativn of tho huge improvement thny haw shown as thn season has pro­!,Tfnssed. 
'Things are finally starting to come together lilr us," shn said. "So we have to build a linmda­tion fi1r 1mxt y1mr." 
The Babes hopn to nab their first win of the season tonight and play tho rolo of spoilor. 
Each team is optimistic as one makes a postseason push and the othnr attempl-; to salvagn the final game of il<> snason. 
Pangborn vs. Welsh Family 

Arter a 14-7 vietory over Farley on Sunday, thn Pangborn Phoxes will take on the Welsh Family Whirlwinds tonight at 8 
p.m. at Hinhle West Finld looking to start a win strnak. 
"We worn very happy with our offense against Farley," Pangborn captain Katie Murray said. "It was mally great to see them eome in and takn charge of the game." 
The Whirlwinds arn coming ol'l' a 16-12 win against Pa-;querilla East that cmnn down to the f'inal minute, but they were unable to play last week's 
scheduled game against Me<;iinn due to rain. 
Though the Welsh Family squad has not played in over a wenk, sophomorn wide recnivnr Kelly Buslwlle said hnr team is anxious to face tlw l'hoxes. 
"Wn'rn really nxeitnd to get back on the field," Bushelle said. "We've bonn preparing really well at every practice, and wn just want to go out and prove we're one or the best teams in thn leagun." 
Both t1~arns eomn into the eon­test with winning records, play­ofT hopes and a continuing desire to show their ability on tho football field. Tho Phoxes also look to prove tlwmsnlves against a key rival from I<L<;t sea­son. 
"This is delinitdy a game we noted at the beginning or tho year as a tough, key game l"or us," Murray said. "Everyorw really wanL-; this win." 
Tho Phoxes come into the eon­test with a balanced ollimse and a solid delimse, whkh has con­tinually put Pangborn in position to win iL-; games. 
"Wn have night quality players on the field at all times and they're all very versatile," Murray said. "We can also run tlw ball ju.~t IL<; good <L<; any tnam out tlwn~. 
The Whirlwinds mnanwhiln ean boa-;t of a solid lilotbaU team themselves. This wa-; especially evident in thnir last game against P<L-;querilla Ea-;t. 
"The ollimse was really solid and so was the defense," Bushello said. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu, Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu and Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 6, 2005 Thursday, October 6, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 



Rally 
continued from page 24 
normal site at the .Joyce Center basketball arnna, with access to the facility for studenL'i at 5 p.m. and for the general public at 
5:45 p.m., according to the press release. 
Otlwrwise, the rally will take place in Notrn Dame Stadium, and gates will open at 5 p.m. for all speetators. 
The pep rally will begin at approximately 6 p.m. Weis and the team will enter the Stadium at (dO p.m., and the Irish will sit faeing the west side of the Stadium. · The Notre Dame athletic department requests that the general public enter through Gates C and D of the Stadium. 
Students will have seating sec­tions reserved and should enter at Cate E. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Wings 
continued from page 24 

head eoach Bobby Clark was thrilled with the way his team played Wednesday. 
"I thought our team did a mueh better job tonight than the weekend," Clark said. "It was a very, very solid perform­ance. We eontrolled the game pretty well from start to fin­ish." 
Junior midl"ielder Jan Etherington recorded the assist on McGeeney's goal. After beating a defender on the left flank, Etherington fired a pass into the box. MeGeeney leapt to meet the ball and headed it past Marquette goal­keeper Andy Kroll for the 
score. "It was a picture-perfeet goal," Clark said. 
McGeeney is now tied with forward Joe Lapira and mid­fielder Nate Norman for the team lead in goals with three on the year. McGeeney deflect­ed most of the credit for Wednesday's score to Etherington, though. 
"It was a real good effort by 
Mothers and adolescents needed for study on parenting and mom/child relationships. Informal study entails 2 at home visits lasting 2 hrs or less each and permission to audiotape some reponses. $50 compensation. 
For further 
information, please email Elizabeth at ewebster@nd.edu or call after 9 p.m. at 
313-303-4691 


SATURDAY, OcTOBER 8 @ 1:00PM 
AT ALUMM FIElD 
VSo CONNECTICUT 
fiRST lSO FANS RECIEVE A SAINT (ifJOSEPH FREE FOOD FROM: 
(WHILE SUPPUES LAST) 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer Irish goalie Chris Cahill holds on to the ball during Notre Dame's 1-0 win over Bradley Sept. 28. 
ian to beat his defender and put a good ball into the box," MeGeeney said. "I was left unmarked and basically had a free header into the goal." 
Notre Dame eame away impressed with a Marquette squad that pressed all game and played stingy defense. 
"They're not a pretty team, but they are very well organ­ized, well coached, and well disciplined," Clark said. "They compete very hard." 
Despite this, the Golden Eagles were unable to lind the back of the net. Irish goalkeep­er Chris Cahill logged his fifth shutout of the season with Wednesday's win. Cahill, who entered the year having to replace graduated all­American Chris Sawyer, improved his goals-against average to an impressive 0.87. 
"Cahill's been great," McGeeney said. "His play has gotten better each garrie we've played. It's been great to sen him step up and fill those shoes." 
Cahill did not have all that mueh to do Wednesday, though, as the Irish defense limited Marquette to just two shots on goal. Clark pointed particularly to the outstanding play of centerbacks Dale Hellas and Hen Crouse in the game. 
"Benny Crouse and Dale Hellas were superb," Clark said. "They won every aerial challenge that came in. ITheyl really stopped most o!' the dan­ger beforn it got to (Cahilll." 
Bellas, who is one of the team's three captains, has b1~1m sidelined by injuries for a large chunk ol' the season. II' Hcllas can stay healthy, it will bring some greatly neednd sta­bility to thn Notre Dame dllfnn­sive lineup. 
"I hope Dale stays healthy, because we have not had that luxury of having a set back four," Clark said. "If we havn a set back four, it will dclinitnly help settle the team down." 
The Irish will next take against pernnnial Big East power Connecticut Saturday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Finld. Clark is exeited to take on the No. 9 Huskies at a time when his tmtm is playing wnll. 
"They arn a very talented team," Clark said. "That's going to be a tnst for us. It's got all thll makings of' a fabu­lous soccer game." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 6, 2005 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Ice 
continued from page 24 
of them working hard and play­ing with discipline, and the coaches, we'll be patient trying to get them to improve in a number of areas." 

The new Irish head coach could not have a more illustri­ous pedigree at his disposal. Jackson led the Lake Superior· State Lakers to national titles in 1992 and 1994 and a tough loss in the 1993 final to Maine. He completed a 182-52-25 record with the Lakers arid is currently the most successful active col­lege coach, with a .751 winning percentage. 
IIe looks to bring this experi­ence to a young Irish squad and they were previously unaccus­Notes: starters] did a good job of bal­establish a set of guidelines for tomed. He describes an up­+ The Irish announced their ancing their offense," Brown
his team early on. tempo style focused on the phys­leadership for the 2005-06 cam­
Valpo 

said. "They didn't hit for as
"I think the biggest thing is ical aspect of the game, but one paign on Wednesday, naming 
continued from page 24 high of a percentage as what
going to be related to effort and that incorporates discipline as junior right winger T.J. Jindra to 
their season average is, but
discipline," he said. "When I say well. The Irish will not tolerate the captain position. Seniors effort, I am talking about their carelessness with the puck on Mike Walsh and Chris Trick, 
1, while the Crusaders fell to their starters did a good job 
14-4. The loss for Valparaiso of mixing it up and keeping useffort back-checking to the the ice, which lead to deadly along with junior Jason Paige off balance a little bit." 
was its first this season checking ... getting in and mak­lem for last year's icers. Jindra is the 13th player in Irish defensive zone, their effort fore­odd-man rushes, a severe prob­were named alternate captains. 
against a Big East Conference Eventually, though, the 
opponent. It had previously Notre Dame offense took over.
ing some contact and making "The physical aspect of the hockey history to be given the things happen, their effort on game is evident in all college honor as a junior, the last being 
beaten DePaul and Villanova. Senior All-Big East pick In practices leading up to Lauren Kelbley spiked 13 kills 
line changes. hockey games, but we have to Evan Nielsen in 2003. "And then to go with that, dis­be willing to take a hit and "(Jindra] is the one guy that 
the non-conference match, for the Irish. Sophomore cipline. I've tried to make sure recover from it in a positive the upperclassmen point to as 
Adrianna Stasiuk continued players would not take her string of strong offensive 
Brown had made sure her 
that we don't go off-sides, that fashion," Jackson said. "I think the heartbeat of the team," we don't stay out on the ice for that [the players'] willingness to Jackson said. "He does every­
Valparaiso lightly. Last sea­performances as well with 13 two minutes, that we don't take pay the price is going to be the thing the right way when it 
son, the Crusaders beat the kills. Big East pre-season bad penalties and not give up biggest thing that's going to comes to playing the game. He's 
Irish in a five-game, regular player of the year Lauren 
Brewster added 11.

season match before the Irish The Blue/Gold game, held with our lineup." face in front of a puck to block a 
odd-man rushes." influence what direction we go willing to pay the price, put his won their second meeting in a "I think we served pretty 
four-game tilt in the NCAA well, so we got them a littleannually to open the season, will The price Jackson refers to shot, whatever it takes to win a serve as an extra chance for encompasses not only the physi­game. You can't underestimate 
tournament. bit out of !their] system at Despite Wednesday night's times, and that definitelyJackson and his staff of assis­cal aspect, but being able to that when it comes to choosing a 
sweep, Brown wasn't too helped us," Brown said. 
tant coaches Paul Pooley, Andy execute all over the ice, from leader." Slaggert and volunteer coach the breakout, to the fore-check, Jindra has played in 77 games 
happy. After a difficult opening Jim Montgomery to scout their to the back-check. It's all a mat­during his career with the Irish, 
"We're not really pleased game, the Irish defense was team's talent. The Irish started ter of taking the right steps in netting eight goals and assisting 
with how we played," she nearly impassable. on-ice training only last the right direction. And for the on 11. Even more impressively, 
said. "We were just inconsis­Four Irish players racked Saturday, and as such, the Irish time being, Jackson hopes to out of his eight Irish goals, four 
tent. We had some bad spurts up double-digit digs. have had little time to work on make strides in the mental were game-winners. In 2003-04 
in both games one and three." Sophomore setter Ashley the larger aspects of the game. arena. Jindra joined with fellow cap­
The Irish trailed for parts of Tarutis had 16. Junior defen­"The Blue/Gold game is kind "Their confidence is going to tain Paige and Michael Bartlett 
the first and third games, but sive specialisVlibero Danielle of significant, more so this year be a huge factor, especially with on the Irish penalty kill to set a 
they rallied for the victories. Herndon nabbed 10. Senior than past years just because it's the schedule we have, with Notre Dame record, allowing 
The score was tied at 11 sep­co-captain Meg Henican had going to be a real evaluator for some real tough opponents early only 22 goals on 17 4 penalties, a 
arate points during the a team-high 19, and Stasiuk the coaching staff," Jackson on," he said. "It's going to take .876 success percentage. 
match. registered 12. said. "I haven't spent a lot of some time for us to develop con­Walsh netted two goals with 
"We had good composure Notre Dame also had 23 time focusing on their individual fidence in them and confidence eight assists in 36 games in 
total blocks -nine solo and abilities, to figure out who's on within the system. I'm hoping 2004-05. 
and came back and tied the 
game and had some big plays 14 assisted. Big East leader what line, who's going to be on that we'll be a much better team Paige tallied four goals and 
when we needed," Brown senior Carolyn Cooper had six, while Brewster and
said.

the power play, who's on penalty in the second half of the year three assists in 37 games last While the games were much Kelbley added seven and five,killing. They don't have a lot of than we will be in the first half. season, while Trick contributed 
closer than the Irish would respectively. Henican also ledtime to make this team, let "That certainly doesn't mean three goals and six assists from alone get into a position where that we're not going to play to the blue line in 37 game appear­
have liked, they were thank­the team with a perfeet 1.000 they have a specific role on this win from the get-go, but we're ances. 
ful to pull out the win against hitting percentage. team." also going to try to be patient 
a scrappy Crusader squad. Jackson is looking for some­until they understand what we Contact Kyle Cassily at 
"I think both offensively and Contact Tom Dorwart at thing out of his team of which are trying to teach them." kcassily@nd.edu 
defensively, [Valparaiso's tdorwart@nd.edu 


The Riverside Terrace 
426 Lincolnway East cindy@ theriversideterrace .com 57 4-256-2271 
Look for Our New Wesite Coming Soon! 
theriversideterrace.com 
Downtown Mishawaka on the River 
Formal Dinners Special Events 
Off Premise Catering Book Your Dance and Banquet Now! 

Thursday, October 6, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILL SHORTZ 
ACROSS 37 Aces over 63 Jam 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON TIUS DAY: Kate Winslet, 30: Guy Pearce. 3X: eights, in poker, Karen Allen. 54: Bernie Mac. 47
64 Terrible twos,1 Test sites as illustrated by 

Happy Birthday: You will have a creative edge this year that will help you 
5 D.H.'s pride 17-&20-Across e.g. 
65 Souvenir shop surpass anything you've done in the past. Guard against daydreaming and 
and 54-&

9 Without stinting stock procrastinating. Don't let your personal life cause you to he unproductive. Try 
60-Across 

to work things out so you don't waste a year that's perfect for advancement. Your 
66 Financial

14 Paradise lost 41 Carpenter's numbers are 9, 12. 13, 28. 31. 39 
predicamentcurve cutter15 "Rule, Britannia" 

ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You have to take an aggressive stance when it 
composer 42 Born as 

comes to making money. You will be fortunate in financiJl and legal matters. 16 Frequent ticket 43 Like 90, DOWN Try to conclude a settlement that has been lingering. *** office sight compared to 85 1 Flips (through) TAURUS (April20-May 20): You'll be quick to place the hlame elsewhere. Be careful if you don't want to face repercussions. A lot can he accomplished if you 
2 Jane Eyre's44 San Juan de Ia

17 Highflying arc work-oriented. ** 
charge

industry GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let work issues change your mind about 47 Stephen of 
3 Emerald or something you want to do. A chance to do something with people who have the 19 manual aquamarine same interests will turn out splendidly. You will have plenty to offer hoth young 
"Interview With 
and old today. *** 

20 Goal for a the Vampire," 4 Senator from 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Lucky in love and unlucky with money just ahout 
112-pounder 1994 Maine 
sums it up today. Refrain from overspending trying to impress the one you love. 22 Lover of 49 Exotic vacation 5 Kind of wit Observe the behavior of children: A lot can be learned from the young and the innocent. *****
Endymion, in 54 25th 6 Engage in 
LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Travel down the information highway and you will
myth anniversary gift fanfaronade 
find everything you need tn contribute to a partnership that interests you. This 23 Klutz 59 Presley's 7 Mark of a ruler is not the time to point your finger at someone else. •• "Don't," not "I aTake care of VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Check out courses or oppot1unities to increase your 
24" chic" 
skill and knowledge. A change in your professional direction will not only be
Beg of You" 

9 Water beds beneficial but will give you a new lease on life. **** 
27 Like the Mau 
so Intensifies LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get out and meet new people. The more mingling
10 Have toMaus 

you do, the better your chance will be to promote your latest idea. Deals can he
61 Go-between 

11 Burn rubber, 62 Indication of with "out" 33 Half a train? 46 Director/actor 54 One may be SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't take anything or anyone for granted. 35 Top dog serious intent Braff of "Garden heaved Someone you really like may get the wrong impression. Get involved in activities 
32 "Ugh!" established and money made. *** 
12 Hook 34 Had in stock 

State" that will help you grow. Changes will he to your benefit. *** 
13 Ouija board 55 Just think of it 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have a personal problem crop up 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 36 Bryn_ 48 Nirvana attainer 
answer if you haven't been doing your share of the domestic chores. This isn't the time 
56 Contact, say
18 On its way 38 Morse bit 50 Sell for to think out loud. Take care of your responsibilities and carry on. *** 57 Old Roman CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lan. 19): Someone will help you realize what's available 
51 Olds model

7.-t~:::+:-:-1 21 Spoken for 39 Weaken well to you, but beware of the person trying to lead you astray. It will he a tough -....,;:-+~.,...-=+-=-•.r.:r.t:-:-+-::-1-:-1 25 Some sausage 52 Kidney-related choice--listening to reason or fnllowing the person telling you what ynu want
40 Come to terms 58 Benefit of 
to hear. Stay in control. ****

slices 53 "Don't you 
clergy? AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Strictly business: That's what you should he
45 Lexicographers' recognize this 26 Poison plant 
sticking to. Getting involved in the personal life of a friend will backfire. Love
researches voice?!" 59 Easy mark
1-:18--;-+-:::+.:,... iolllii;r::.+.:+=:+:':---:+~~ 28 Dance-drama may take a turn, but in the end it will be to your benefit.** with measured 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get into the swing of things and take your chances with financial gains today. Love looks promising, and the opportunity tolnake
chants For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
SOille very special personal changes will alter the course of your life. Travel will
1-::-1-:::t-::-f'~ -:i:+.-:-+::-1-:-:-1~'!!!' -:::+.::-J-:-:-t-rl::;:-1 29 1 0 jiao credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
help you clarify where you want to live in the future. ***** 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday30 Rice who wrote crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You are serious, loyal and a little hit possessive. You arc creative,
"Vittorio the 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 unique and interested in the unusual. You know what you want and do everything 
Vampire" 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). to the max. --=-+.;,..i-:::-i-:='-1 31 Meeting point 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comj(Jrjim, euxenialast.comforl't11tfiti(•ntial cmzsultafi(ms
_;,a....;....L.-'--' 32 Hankering solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one 
Jetter to each square, 
to form tour ordinary words. 
MACHP 
1 

rJ [] 
e2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
UGAVE 
I I I 
WHAT THE: ART

tBISCER 5TUOE:NT5 010 BE:FORE: THE: BIG

] [] 
E:XAM. 


www.jumble.com 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer:"[ I I I I I I J"ITJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 
I Jumbles: RANCH GRIMY DUPLEX MEMOIR Yesterday's Answer·. 
This helps when doing the dishes ­"DRY" HUMOR 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________ City _____________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 6, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame Stadium will host USC pre-game pep rally 
Observer 

Irish teammates Travis Thomas, left, and Chinedum Ndukwe tangle with Trojan players during Notre Dame's 41-10 loss last season. 
HOCKEY 
New coach, new·hope 

Observer File Photo 

Irish captain T.J. Jindra avoids a defender during Notre Dame's 1-1 tie with Northern Michigan Oct. 29, 2004. 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
He's been in this position before and succeeded. Now he's poised to do it all over again. 
First-year Notre Dame coach Jeft' Jackson must turn around a team that finished 5-27-6 in the 2004-05 campaign. 
He found himself in a similar situation in 1996, when he was named the senior director of the inaugural U.S. National Development program follow­ing a highly successful tenure with Lake Superior State. 
One year later, the U.S. Junior National team, led by Jackson, won the silver medal at the 1997 World Junior 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 

The thousands of fans turned away from the Notre Dame­Michigan State pep rally will be calling for clear skies on Oct. 14. 
Weather permitting, the Friday pep rally on the eve of the Notre Dame-USC football game will be held in Notre Dame Stadium, assistant athlet­ic director John Heisler announced in a press release Wednesday. 
Weis and athletic officials made the decision because of 
Championships, the team's best finish ever. 
With a similar challenge at hand, Jackson will get his first look at his team in a game situ­ation with the drop of the puck at the annual Blue/Gold gamH Saturday at 7:05 p.m. in the Joyce Center. · 
Jackson has had little time to see his players in on-ice situa­tions but has devoted much study to film from the past year. 
"Initial impressions are that we have a lot of work to do, and yet I think that there's enough ability there for this team to be much better than what they were a year ago," 
Jackson said. "It's just a matter Irish wing Mike Bartlett chases the puck during see ICE/page 22 Notre Dame's 6-2 loss to Bowling Green Jan. 29. 
the failure to accommodate fans at the first home game rally and the fanfare that a No. 1 Southern Cal team attracts to South Bend. according to the press release. 
Pep rallies normally oeeur in 
the basketball  arena  of the  
Joyce  Center,  which  seats  
11,418 fans.  

But upwards of 30,000 people have attended pep rallies in the Stadium (Georgia Tech 1997, Nebraska 2000) in the past. 
The upcoming USC rally would be the fourth football pep rally ever held in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The last Stadium rally also was held before the Irish played a No. 1 team, when Notre Dame hosted Nebraska in a 27-24 overtime loss in 2000. 
Pep rallies were held in the Stadium prior to games against Georgia Tech in 1997 (dedica­tion of renovated Stadium) and Michigan State that same year. 
The 1997 Michigan State rally ultimately was moved to the Stadium concourses due to rain. 
In ease of rain or other inelement weather on Oet. 14, the rally will move back to its 
see RALLY/page 21 

.... 

Observer File Photo 
MEN'S SOCCER 
McGeeney's goal clips Eagles' wings 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Writer 

A 1-0 victory over Marquette Wednesday was just what the Irish needed. 
Saturday's tie with West Virginia had moved Notre Dame 2-2-1 in Big East play. A year ago, the Irish lost just one con­ference game en route to the regular season league title. 
But the team entered Wednesday's contest at Marquette determined to start a run of solid performances. 
"Going into [the game] after our result from West Virginia, we knew we had to come out with a win," forward Justin McGeeney said. 
McGeeney certainly did his part. The junior scored the game's only goal in the 40th minute, and Notre Dame earned the win over the Golden Eagles. 
The Irish aggressively set the tempo from the opening whistle and ended the game with a 10­7 shots advantage. Notre Dame 
see WINGS/page 21 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish attack too much for Valpo 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 

Irish coach Debbie Brown keeps stressing her players need to be more consistent. They fall behind in matches when they shouldn't, and they have rough spurts when they know they should be in the lead, she says. 
The No. 10 Irish are doing one thing well, however ­winning. 
Notre Dame defeated the Valparaiso Crusaders 34-32, 30-21, 30-26 Wednesday night at the Joyce Center before 1,181 fans. 
The Irish improved to 12­
see VALPO/page 22 


SMC VOI..LEYBAll 
WOME~fS INTERHAU. 
NO WOMEN'S TENN~S Mli PlAYOffS -Nl 
MlB PlAYOFFS -Al MlB PlAYOfFS -Al
LLI 
Co) Adrian 3 P.E. vs. Farley Astros 10 White Sox 5 

An~ls 5
Christian and Catrina 

z Saint Mary's 0 Braves 5 
Red Sox 4 Van ees 3 
Thompson participated The Pyros square off

::5 

Wednesday at the ITA All-Andy Pettitte pushes
against the Finest at 7Lindsey Eschelman 
Chicago backs Boston Los Angeles evens the leads a Bulldogs sweep 
~ 

p.m. tonight at Riehle-
American championships Houston past Atlanta in 
into a corner. as it takes division series with
cz: 
of the Belles. 
Field. 

inTulsa, Okla. Game 1 of the NLDS. 
a 2-0 series lead. New York at one game apiece. 
page 19page 19 
page 18 page 17 page 14 page 14 
= 





