
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Lovitt granted clemency by Va. governor 
Notre Dame students worked on death row case, met convict 
By MADDIE HANNA A.o;sociatr News Editor 
Convictnd murderer Hobin Lovitt wate­lwd wavns of See Also Notre Damn 
s t u d e n t s "Va. governor 
como and go spares man's through the 
life"
University's Washington page3 Program while cyclns of legal appeals 
bought him time on death row -until the day before his scheduled execution, when Virginia Gov. Mark Warner, troubled by the destruc­tion of DNA evidence, granted Lovitt clemency. 
Warner issued a statement T u e s d a y 
Lovitt !Wening that commuted Lovitt's sentence to life in prison without parole, just before his scheduled Wednesday night execution by lethal injection. 
Lovitt was slated to be the 1OOOth person executed in the United States since the Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976, a dis­tinction that drew national media coverage in recent weeks. 
"In this case, the actiDns of an agent of the Commonwealth, in a manner contrary to the express direc­tion of the law, comes at the expense of a defendant facing society's most severe and final sanction," Warner said in the statement. "The Commonwealth must ensure that every time this ultimate sanction is carried out, it is done fairly." 
Approximately 40 Notre Dame students have met Lovitt -who was convicted in 1999 of murdering a man with a pair of scissors -while taking Professor Tom Kellenberg's capital punishment litigation course in the Washington Program. Two of those stu­dents, seniors Christin O'Brien and Hyan Finlen, have been following Lovitt's case closely since meeting him in fall 2004. 
''I'm ecstatic," O'Brien said. "I think it's definitely the right decision. They worked tireless­ly on that.~. He's a great guy." 
Kirkland & Ellis, a D.C. law firm headed by double Domer Tom Vannucci, handled Lovitt's defense, and so did former 
ND offers elective aviation course 


PHIL HUDELSONfThe Observer Notre Dame sophomore Christine Scacco reads the infor­mational sign posted around dorms about the Fundamentals of Aviations course offered at the University. 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
Posters publicizing Fundamentals of Aviation -a relatively unknown course offered through the Notre Dame Pilot Initiative -read "Fly Like a Champion Today" and encourage students to learn to fly for elective credit. 
Though the University first offered a ground aviation course in 1973, the course ended in 1977 because no professor remained to teach it. 
But in recent years, the course has returned, thanks to the efforts of former Notre Dame students and currently licensed pilots Joe Friel, Jeff Neweamp and Brian McCarthy. 
While at Notre Dame, the men taught the undergraduate course, under the 'guidance of Air Force Heserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) profes­sor Col. Michael Zenk. 
The course is currently taught by Dillon senior Lauren Centioli. 
"I got involved my freshman year when I saw the posters for NDPI." Centioli said. "Since [Friel] was graduating that year, the course would have ceased to exist if I had not come around. lie asked me if would teach it and I said yes." 
Centioli, a certified commer­cial pilot, flight instructor and ground instructor, said the program is an advanced ground school. 
"Other programs teach you just what you need to know to pass the private pilot's exam," he said. "This class goes above and beyond that. The scope is beyond that of simply passing the FM test." 
The purpose of the course is to fulfill one of the major requirements for a pilot's license, Centioli said. With Fundamentals of Aviation 
see AVIATION/page 4 

Students begin planning for spring break 
Anthony Travel books students early for vacation destinations 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
Tho holiday season has arrived and brought with it a cold, snowy South Bend wintnr -leaving many students dreaming of sun, sand, surf and 80-degree tempera­turns as they make spring break vacation plans. 
Nearly 100 students have already booknd vacations through Anthony Travel, said Kayleen Carr, lnisurn manager for the agmHy 
"Typically wn see about 600 students hook through us pnr ynar," Carr said. Carr said eruisns and destinations in Mexico are usually tlw most popular. vaea­
see BREAK/page 4 Whitewatl!r indnpnndm1t COUIJ­sel Ken Starr. 

FiniPn returned to D.C. this summer as an intern for Kirkland & Ellis, where he spent 10 weeks working on Lovitt's clemency petition. lie had been at Kirkland & Ellis for slightly more than a month when the Supreme Court granted Lovitt a stay on July 11, his original execution date. 
"We were pretty excited lin the office]," Finlen said of the July 11 decision, which came hours before the scheduled execution. 
The Court's Oct. 3 deeision 'not to hear Lovitt's ease came 
see LOVITT/page 

SEA seeks to lovver ermss1ons 
Group joins Campus Cli1nate Challenge 
By JOE PIARULLI 
News Writer 
When it comes to Notrn Dame, the word 'admission' holds much morn bnaring than the word 'emission.' But the Students for Environmental Action (SEA) are trying to give the latter more attention. 
SEA co-prnsident Nicholn Mitehell recently dnddnd to get Notre Dame involvnd in Campus Climate Challenge, a campaign through U.S. Public Interest Hesearch Groups (PIHG), with the hope of rnduc­ing emissions on campus. 
Grnenhousn gasns naturally occur in the atmosphere and include water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and ozone. But certain human activities add to the levels of these naturally occur­ring gases -and become thn emissions thn Campus Climate Challenge is aiming to control. 
The goal of Campus Climatn Challenge is to get over 500 universitiflS to lower thnir emissions by 2 percent each year below their 2005 levels in order to eliminate global warming pollution. There are currently 1:~9 campuses involved nationwide. 
"Energy eonsnrvation is a worldwide initiative right now," Mitchell said. "Wn have a very ambitious and intnlli­gPnt student body and we eould really make a big ditTI~r­nnee." 
Sonw schools havn gone as far as SWitching to rPnPWUble nnergy sourePs, while otlwrs 
sec: CHALLENGE/page: 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 30, 2005 

INSIDE COLUMN 


All Iwant for Chrisbnas 
I can still hear the warnings, the strict advice that I would receive every holiday season as a child. It came from my parents, teachers and virtually every adult I knew, and it was the art of getting every­
Kelly Meehan 
thing you wanted from Santa Clause. 
Assistant
"If you are a 
News Editor 
bad girl, you will get nothing but coal from Santa," they scolded me. I could not even escape the questioning from the old man himself, for there is not a child in the world that sits on Santa's lap without him asking if they had, in fact, been a good boy or girl that year. 
For the first seven years of my life, Santa Clause was pretty much equivalent to God in my mind. I was constantly told that he was watching my every move, knowing if I had been bad or good. I sang songs about him, baked cookies for him, and even wrote long detailed letters to him. I was basically worshipping the man. 
As the years passed, the letters stopped, I realized I cannot sing and I ate the ChristQ1as cookies that I baked. I learned that I was a bit naive in first grade when I burst into tears days before Santa's arrival and confided in my mother that I did not believe I had done enough to please this mysterious all knowing man to receive the coveted American Girl Doll that I so desired. 
I learned if I was relatively well behaved, I would rip open my gifts on Christmas morning to find that I had been deserving of Go-Go My Walking Puppy, a Cabbage Patch Doll and even Molly, my American Girl Doll. 
As a college student, however, the holiday season sometimes becomes a jaded time filled with finals and projects. I might have to shape up my behavior a bit or carve a large chunk of time out of my schedule to bake some gourmet cookies to get my name on the good list. Even if I had the time to write a letter to Santa, what would I ask for? 
For starters, nothing I want would come from Toys-R-Us. 
I would probably ask for Albert Einstein or any other genius from the past few centuries to miracu­lously take my final exams for me. 
Next would possibly be the reloca­tion of South Bend to somewhere a little more exotic than Indiana ... perhaps Costa Rica? 
And finally, I would ask for that blue Volkswagen Jetta I have desired for so long. 
My wish list is definitely nothing that any Santa I know could fulfill, but Christmas is all about miracles, right? Oh, I would also let Santa know that this year he does not need to travel all the way to Poland, Ohio from his humble abode in the North Pole -just as long he has someone in the likes of Brad Pitt or Jake Gyllenhaal fill in for him. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In a Nov. 29 article, a broadcast journalism class was incorrecrly idenrified as a broadcast journalism program. No such program exisrs at rhe University. The Observer regrets rhe error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR SPRING BREAK? 

Patrick Kaiser  Jim Bochnowski  Nate Origer  Gessica Hufnagle  Jimmy Wilson  Greg Ramsower  
sophomore Fisher  sophomore Fisher  senior Fisher  junior Walsh  freshman Alumni  sophomore Keough  
"I don't know. How many months away is  "What kind of question is that before  "Visiting the Rue McLanahan Museum. ,,  'Tll be playing softball in the Kia Classic. "  'Tm going to Canada with some friends. ,  "Touring with the Glee Club in southern  






it?" Christmas break?" 

Man accused of deliberate finger severing 
SALZBURG, Austria ­Prosecutors on Tuesday accused a former finger­nail designer of deliberate­ly putting his hands beneath a passing train so his fingers would be sev­ered and he could collect on a $1.17 million insur­ance policy. 
The 35-year-old defen­dant from the town of St. Johann, whose name was not released in line with Austrian privacy laws, is being tried on federal charges of insurance fraud stemming from claims filed in Nov. 2003, when the incident occurred. 
The suspect told police he was riding his bicycle when he lost control and rolled down an embank­ment and onto railroad tracks just as a train was passing by, lo~ing ·a thumb on one hand and an index finger and a pinky on the other. 
Farmer protects animals with orange paint 
OGANTON, Pa. -With deer hunters out all over the woods, a farmer has decided to paint his cows, horses and even his dog bright orange to make sure they aren't mistaken for deer. 
Friz Konieczka doesn't want to take any chances because he heard about a neighbor's horse being shot during hunting season sev­eral years ago. 
Konieczka, a Clinton County farmer, wants his animals to stand out--and they do. Fluorescent orange paint lines their backs and heir sides. 
Konieczka said he'd rather spend $5 for a can of orange paint than have one of his animals killed or injured. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

California. , 
IN BRIEF 

Joseph Antenucci Becherer, Ph.D. will give two lectures on "Between Silence and Strength, the Sculpture of Dietrich Klinge." The first will be at 6 
p.m. tonight while the second will be at 6:30 p.m. tonight. Both will be at the Snite Museum ofArt. 
Kevin Ducey, 2004 winner of the Honickman First Book Prize in Poetry, will read at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the Hospitality Room of South Dining Hall, Reekers. A reception follows. 
NDtv will present the "Mike Peterson Show Christmas Special" Thursday at 10 p.m. at Legends. The Late Night Talk Show season-end special will include live and taped comedy segments and will feature the campus band Summersaults. 
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will perform at 7:30 
p.m. Thursday in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $60 general public, $51 fac­ulty or staff, $51 seniors and $20 all students. 
The Dance Company of Notre Dame will perform Thursday and Friday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. The perform­ance, entitled "Soul," will fea­ture various genres of dance, including jazz, lyrical and mod­ern. General admission tickets are $3 and preferred seating is $5. Tickets are available at the door or in advance by contacting Ashley Lucchese at dancco@nd.edu. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


36 22 


HIGH LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
LLI :::E: 
!;( 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
cr: 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 36
..... 

LOW 29 

27 20 


35 21 


HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 55 I 34 Boston 59 I 38 Chicago 371 30 Denver 43 I 24 Houston 70 I 57 Los Angeles 69 I 53 Minneapolis 26 I 18 New York 57 I 38 Philadelphia 56 I 34 Phoenix 70 I 4 7 Seattle 41 I 32 St. Louis 43 I 32 Tampa 69 I 49 Washington 52 134 
.
• 

Wednesday, November 30, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 3 
Va. governor spares tnan's life 
Lovitt, set to become l,OOOth person executed in U.S., granted clemency 
Associa1cd Press 
HICIIMOND. Va. Virginia's governor on Tuesday spared ttw life of a eonvieted killer who would have been tho l,OOOth per­son executed in the United States since the Supreme Court allowed capital pun­ishment to resume in 1976. 
Hobin Lovitt's death sen­tence was commuted to life in prison without parole a little more than 24 hours before he was to be execut­ed by injection Wednesday night for stabbing a man to death with a pair of seissors during a 1998 pool-hall rob­bery. 
In granting clemency, Gov. Mark H. Warner noted that evideneo from the trial had been improperly destroyed, depriving the defense of the opportunity to subjeet the material to the latest in DNA tnstiug. 
"Thn eommonwealth must ensure that evnry time this ultimate sanetion is earried out, it is done fairly," Warrwr said in a statmnent. 
Warner, a Dernoerat, had nevnr before granted elemeney to a death row inmatn during his four years in ofl"iee. During that time, 11 rnnn have been exeeuted. Virginia is one of the most aetive death-penalty states, having executed 94 people sinee 1976. 
The 1 ,OOOth cxeeution is now sehedulcd for Friday in North Carolina, where Kenneth Lee Boyd is slated 
to  die  for  killing  his  
estranged  wife  and  her  
father.  

The 999th execution since eapital punishment resumed a generation ago took place Tuesday morning, when Ohio put to death John Hicks, who strangled his mother-in-law and suffocat­ed his 5-year-old stepdaugh­ter to cover up the crime. 
Lovitt's lawyers, who include former independent counsel Kenneth Starr, and anti-death penalty advocates had argued that his life should be spared because a eourt clerk illegally destroyed the bloody scis­sors and other evidence, preventing DNA testing that they said could exonerate him. 
Ashley Parrish, another of Lovitt's attorneys, called Warner's deeision "entirely proper, given the extraordi­nary eireumstances of Mr. Lovitt's ease." 
Lovitt was eonvicted in 1999 of murdering Clayton Dicks at an Arlington pool hall. Proseeutors said Dicks eaught Lovitt prying open a cash register with the scis­sors, which police found in the woods between the pool 
hall and the home of Lovitt's ·cousin. 
Lovitt admitted grabbing 
the cash box but insisted 
someone else killed Dicks. 
DNA tests on the scissors at 
the time of the trial were 
inconclusive. But more 
sophisticated DNA tech­
niques are now available. 
The governor, who is con­
sidered a possible 
Democratic presidential con­
tender in 2008, said he was 
"acutely aware of the tragic 
loss experienced by the 
Dicks family." 
"However, evidence in Mr. 
Lovitt's trial was destroyed 
by a court employee" before 
post-conviction DNA tests 
could be done, he said. "The 
actions of an agent of the 
commonwealth, in a manner 
contrary to the express 
direction of the law, comes 
at the expense of a defen­
dant facing society's most 
severe and final sanction." 
The state attorney gener­
al's office released a state­
ment acknowledging the 
governor's authority to grant 
clemency and adding, "Our 
thoughts and prayers arc 
with the victim's family." 
In addition to Starr, 
Hepublicans such as Mark 
Earley, Warner's GOP oppo­
nent in the 2001 gubernato­
rial election, had also 
denounced the planned exe­
eution. 
Convicted tnurderer indicted for '83 slaying 
Associa1ed Press 

WHEATON, Ill.-A convict­ed murderer was indicted Tuesday for the 1983 beating death of a 10-year-old girl in the Chicago suburbs, the lat­est development in a case that put a spotlight on Illinois' capital punishment system. 
Brian Dugan, 49, was charged with 15 counts in the killing of Jeanine Nicarico of Naperville, whose slaying attracted national attention after two men were convicted and sent to death row, then freed years later. 
"This is the result of a full and open-minded investiga­tion of the facts and circum­stances of this case," DuPage County State's Attorney Joseph Birkett said. 
Nicarico was horne alone from school recovering from the flu on Feb. 25, 1983, when she was abducted, leav­ing no sign but fingernail scratches on the wall ncar the kicked-in front door. 
Birkett said Dugan raped and bludgeoned the girl to death. Her body was later found in a nature preserve. 
Holando Cruz and Alejandro Hernandez were convicted of the crime and condemned to death in 1985, but appeals courts over the following decade twice r.eversed the convictions. 
Cruz was aequitted during a third trial in 1995 after spending almost a deeade on death row, and prosecutors later dropped the charges against Hernandez. 
DNA testing was among the factors that made the indict­ment possible, Birkett said. 
"The past is the past. We're going forward. This indict­ment is about the evidence available now, today," Birkett said. 
He planned to seek the death penalty if Dugan is con­victed. "I could not stomach seeing this crime go unpun­ished." 
Thomas McCulloch, Dugan's defense attorney since 1985, said Dugan would proJ>ably enter a plea of not guilty. 
"I'm saddened but not sur­prised." McCulloch said of the indictment. "I think it's a ter­rible waste of time and ener­gy. I wish th1~y spent their time and money elsewhere." 
A message left at the home of Jeanine Niearico's parents was not immediately returned. 
Arter Cruz's acquittal, seven DuPage County prosecutors and law officers were charged in 1996 with lying and fabri­cating evidence against Cruz in what prosecutors described as a conspiracy to railroad him for the crime. All seven were cleared in 1999 after a high-profile trial. 


Slap AIDS. Keep the Pramise. 
' A · s d" Cia 5 of 2006 Class of 2007 College of Arts and Letters. Latino Studies, Preprofessional Studies, Preprofessional Society. 
Sponsored by Africa Faith and Justice Network.AIDS Awareness, Cen1er .or s1an tu 1es. s • • Running Club, Sociology Department. Student Government. Theology Department 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 30, 2005 

Challenge 
continued from page 1 
have focused on increasing environmental awareness. 
Since Notre Dame just joined the challenge, the pri­mary focus this year will be on education, specifically in the dorms. 
"The Students for Environmental Action has had this ongoing competition between the 
ever projects they propose that might make the Notre Dame community aware of the potential impact of global warming," she said. "That might consequently help us to reduce our contribution to the causes of global warming." 
For Fuderer, the motivation behind the movement is quite clear. 
"It's because we believe, as stewards of this earth, we can find a more sustainable bal­ance between consumption of the Earth's 
dorms to reduce  "We have a very  resources  artd  
electricity,  so  ambitious and  humanities  
whatever dorm wins gets some form of a prize,"  intelligent student body, and we could  needs for a healthy environ­ment," she said.  
Mitchell  said.  really make a big  "As a major pro­ 
"That's going on  been for a  difference.,,  ducer of the world's carbon  
really long time,  dioxide  our  
but  not  many  Nichole Mitchell  country has an  
people  know  SEA co-president  obligation to the  

about it." 
Part of the goal this year is to increase awareness of that competition, but in the follow­ing years, SEA will need more · large-scale projects to reduce emissions, Mitchell said, 
While the students will be the ones actually working toward emission reductions, the SEA will need cooperation from others around campus. 
"Hopefully the teachers are going to be the ones who talk with me to administrators," Mitchell said. "That's who it really needs to go through, is administrators." 
Laura Fuderer, a member of the Environment Group of the PFSA (Progressive Faculty-Staff Alliance), said the environmental groups on campus should work together to come up with ways of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
"The Environment Group of the PFSA is indeed hoping to work with the SEA on what-rest of the world 
to mitigate that 
output." 

Mitchell said Notre Dame and other college campuses are obviously parts of that output, and there are many ways they can help reduce carbon dioxide emissions. 
"Notre Dame is becoming more and more [environmen­tally conscious] through fac­ulty and students, but energy is a big issue we need to take into consideration," Mitchell said. 
The SEA hopes to raise attention about the Campus Climate Challenge and get student input next semester by starting an educational campaign.. 
"For this year, we only have four months left, so education of energy conservation would be a big enough goal for us," Mitchell said. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edn 


AUDITIONS! 
for Burial at Thebes (Antigone) by Seamus Heaney 


For further details and to arrange an audition time please contact: 
Dr. Andrew Faulkner faulkner.3@nd.edu 631-7692 
Aviation 
continued from page 1 

being counted as ground school, a student is able to continue to flight school and get his or her license. 
"We cover everything need­ed for a private pilot's license," Centioli said. 
Topics covered in the course include aerodynamics, sys­tems, performance, weight and balance, navigation, flight planning, emergencies, weath­er, airports, airspace and com­munication, among others, Centioli said. 
There are currently 18 stu­dents registered for the course in the spring -nearly triple the number who had enrolled in the fall. Centioli said stu­dents should not be deterred 

Break 
continued from page 1 

tion choices among students. 
"Puerto Vallarta and Cabo San Lucas have also been very popular," she said. 
Following this trend, Joey Maher, a junior at Notre Dame, is planning a trip to Acapulco with several of his friends. 
"We were deciding between Jamaica, Acapulco and one other place," he said. "But because of the hurricanes, we decided it's going to be Acapulco 2005, baby." 
Maher said 15 to 50 people will be flying to Acapulco for spring break. 
"We have a package that includes everything," Maher said. "We're trying to· get as many people as possible to go because the more people we have, the cheaper it will be." 
Cost is an issue many stu­
from enrolling, as there is room for 30 students. 
"Most people do not think of an ROTC class as an elective," he -said. 
Though the ROTC runs the course, it is intended for civil­ians. Students are not required to be in the armed forces to take it. 
"If more people knew people about the class, more people would take it," Centioli said. "The supply is there to meet the demand." 
A ground school course taken elsewhere runs between 200 to 400 dollars. With the Notre Dame Pilot Initiative, the cost is already covered by tuition. 
Fundamentals of Aviation also features guest speakers, such as Sam Pavel, President of Experim~ntal Aircraft Association in Elkhart; Lowell Farrand, one of the most sea­soned pilots in the United States and the first to fly a powMed parachute; Richard Levy, a Boeing 777 captain; and Col. Mel DeMar, a former Marine One pilot who served two tours in which he trans­ported now-former Presidents Jimmy Carter, Gerald Ford, George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton. 
In addition to visits by guests, the students also get to take a trip to the South Bend Regional Airport to see the control tower and static air­craft displays. 
For those interested in the course, AS 30098 is offered Monday and Wednesday from 3:00 to 4:15p.m. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 

dents ate concerned with Emily Addis, a Saint Mary's when planning their travels. sophomore. "Our spring Some students said they are break will be two weeks of 
waiting to final­ize their plans because they are 

"Our spring break 
searching for a deal on airlines will be two weeks and hotels on 
ofnonstop travel 
popular Internet 

throughout as
travel sites. 

"I might be much ofEurope as going to Montana 
we can possibly
with friends to ,, 
see.

go skiing at Big Sky," said Kat Kindt, a Saint Emily Addis Mary's junior. "It 
Notre Dame 
depends on what 

sophomore
kind of price I can find for flights. It's really 

nonstop travel throughout as much of Europe as we can possi­bly see." 
Other students are using their break to get away from school and visit family or rela­tives. 
"I'll probably just go to Arizona to visit my grandma," Saint Mary's jun­ior Emily Griesemer said. 
just all about the money." 
Not all students are plan­ning the stereotypical trip to paradise, including those who will already be studying abroad. 
"My roommate and I will be in Rome next semester," said "My friend and I are planning on going on a summer abroad program, so I have to do something inexpensive, like go to Arizona. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


TEN THOUSAND 



VILLAGES@ 
919 W. McKinley 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 574-255-3536 www.tenthousandvillages.com 

J o~n ECDC fo.r a special day of holiday shopping at Ten Thousand Villagesl 
ECDC will receive 20% of sales on 

Thursday, Dec. 1 from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
GIFTS for the holidays HOPE for tomorrow 

Fairly Traded Handicrafts From Around the World Your purchase makes a differencel 

t
-
~r·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, November 30, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE SERVJC:Es page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
French tighten immigration rules 
I'AHIS -Tho Frnnch prnmier on Tuosday 
annmmcml tightPnnd controls on immigration, 
part of his gowrnnwnt's rnsponsn to thn coun­
try's worst dvilunn1st in lilllr dn1:ados. 
Authoritins will incnHtso onforcomont of 
rPquirPIIHml'> t.hat immigrants sen king I 0-year 
n1sidPrJCy Jll'rmil'i or Frnnch dtizonship mastnr 
tlw Frnnch languagP and intngrato into socioty. 
Dominiqun d!' ViiiPpin said. 
l'rancP also plans to crack down on fraudu­
lont marTiagns that somn immigrants use to 
arquin1 n•sidPncy rights and launch a striet.Pr 
scn111ning pron1ss li1r li1r11ign stud11nl'i, Vil111pin ·said. 
Anti-radsm groups wid11ly opposed thn meas­
urPs, saying that grPatnr govornmont scrutiny 
of immigrants could stir up radsm and racist 
acl'i. 
Both Villnpin and lntnrior Ministnr Nieolas 
Sarkozy havn annmmcod law-and-.ordor meas­
un1s sinrP llw rioting hrok11 out this month in 
dPpn1ssPd suburbs wlwrn many immigrants 
livo. Th11 two -both nwmbors of l'n1sidont 
Jarquns Chirac's consPrvativn party -an1 
PXJlPdnd to run for prnsidPnt in 2007, and both 
want to apppar· linn in n1sponso to tho viohmco 
and llrancn's hroadnr social problems. 
Opposition group quits election bid 
CAHACAS, VnrwzuPla -Thrnn Vorwzunlan 
opposition partiPs pullnd out of eongrnssional 
PlPctions Tunsday, liw days bnli1n1 thn votn, say­
ing tlw ronditio11s arP tiltnd toward l'rnsidnnt 
llugo ( :hawz's allins. 
Tlw govm·nmnnl insistnd Sunday's nlnetions 
will lw rlnan. hut t.lw parlins' dl1li1ctions appoar 
to snt up a nu~jor polilieal eonfronlation bnli1rn 
a votn long prPdictnd to bn a r11sounding victory 
lin· pro-Chavoz candidates. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Clinton defends vote on Iraq war 
WASHINGTON -Sen. Hillary Hodham Clinton on Tuesday defended her vole to authorize war in Iraq amid growing unease among liberal Democrats who could deter­mirw the potential 2008 presidential candi­date's future. 
"I Lak11 responsibility for my votn, and I, along with a majority of Americans, expect the president and his administration to take rnsponsibilily for the false assurances, faulty evidence and mismanagement of the war," the Nnw York senator said in a lengthy letter to thousands of people who have writtnn her about the war. 
At the same time, she said the United States must "finish what it started" in Iraq. 

City launches new wireless network 
NEW OHI.EANS -To help boost its stalled economy, hurrieane-ravaged Now Orleans is offering the nation's first free wireless lnt11r11nl network owned and run by a major city. 
Mayor Hay Nagin said Tuesday the system would bnnelit residents and small businesses who still can't get their Internet service rnstored over the dty's washed out telnphone m~twork, while showing the nation "that we are building New Orleans baek." 
The system started opmation Tuesday in the central business district and French Quarter. It's to be available throughout the city in about a ynar. 
LOCAL NEWS 

County to impose jury duty fines 
INDIANAPOLIS -Marion County's judges might hngin imposing fines or community snrvicn rwxt year to punish the growing numb11r of peoph1 failing to show up for jury duly. 
Sincn May, llw number of residents orderPd to rPport for jury duty who actually shownd up has droJ)ped morn than 20 per­cent in tho county. Court oflkials aro at a loss to explain why fewer than four of every I 0 Marion County residents now bother to appnar. 
VATICAN CITY 


Vatican defends policy on gay priests 
Policy will bar incoming gay priests, but will not apply to current gay priests 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -The Vatican defended a policy statement designed to keep mnn with "dnnp-seated" homosnxual tnndeneins from becoming priests, but said there would be no erackdown on gays who are alrnady ordained. 
The Vatican doeument, thn first major policy state­ment of Pope Benedict XVI's papacy, was officially rnlnased Tuesday arter being leaked earlier. Consnrvatives have said it may help reverse the "gay culturo" of many U.S. snmi­naries, while liberal erities complain the restrictions will ernate morale problems among clergy and lead to an evnn greater prinst shortage in the United States. 
Tho Hev. Jamns Martin, a 

U.S. ~nsuit who has writtnn on the issue, said American theologians, eanon lawyers and othnr Homan Catholics will "hope that the docu­ment won't really mean what it says." But he believes it's clear the Vatican wants to keep gay men from being ordained ­even if they're committed to celibacy -and hopes bish­ops and seminary rectors will act accordingly. abuse." more likely than heterosex­tion of long-standing ehurch 
Martin predicted "a slow, The official "Instruction" uals to molest young peo­teaching, saying that "in silent attrition among celi­from the Congregation for ple, but that did not stifle this field, in today's world, bate gay men who cannot Catholic Education was questions about gay semi­there is some confusion." accept the idea of staying in released a week after an narians. "Many defend the position an organization that con­Italian Catholic news The Instruction said men according to whieh the. demns their existence in the agency posted a leaked "who practice homosexuali­homosexual condition is a priesthood." copy on its Web site. ty, present deep-seated normal condition for the 
Matt Foreman of The document has been homosexual tendencies or human being, as if it wore America's National Gay and in the works for years, but support the so-called 'gay nearly a third gender," Lesbian Task Force called its existence came to light in culture'" cannot be admit­Cardinal Zenon the document "appalling," 2002 at the height of the ted to seminaries. The only Groeholewski told Vatiean saying it was an affront to clergy sex abuse scandal in exception would be for Hadio. thousands of gay priests. I le the United States. A study those with a "transitory lie also made clear the accused the Vatican of "a commissioned by U.S. bish­problem" that had been Instruction was intended for calculated campaign to ops found most abuse vic­overcome for at least three candidates for the priest­blame gay men for the tims since 1950 were ado­years. hood and not someonn who church's own criminal eon­lescent boys. The head of the education "discovers his homosexu­duet in fostering and cover­Exports on sex offenders congregation defended the ality after having benn ing up decades of sex say homosexuals are no document as a dear rellee-ordained." 

Bush: Military to not leave Iraq without victory 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -President Bush said Tuesday a U.S. military pullout from Iraq would be a terrible mis­take, beginning a new push defend­ing his embattled war policy. His Pentagon chief said, "Quitting is not an exit strategy." 
Defense Secretary Donald II. Humsfeld said of the Iraqis, "They know that they're the ones that arc going to have to grab that country. And it's time." 
The administration is under pres­sure to convince increasingly skepti­cal Americans that thn president's strategy for Iraq is headed in the right direction. The president is to give a speech on the subject Wednesday at the Naval Academy. 
The unrelenting violence that con­tinues to claim American lives has eontributed to a drop in Bush's pop­ularity, to its lowest level yet, and to growing doubts about the war. It also has led to a debate in Congress about when the 160,000 U.S. troops there should begin to come home. 
The GOP-controlled Senate voted 79-19 this month to urge the presi­dent to outline a strategy for "the successful completion of the mis­sion." Hep. John Murtha, D-Pa., attracted attention with his call for a withdrawal within six months. 
The administration has responded by counseling patience while also signaling it is planning for a way out. Bush, speaking to reporters from El Paso, Texas, rejected any · immediate withdrawal in unusually personal terms. 
"I want to defeat the terrorists. 
And I want our troops to come home," the president said. "But I don't want them to eomn home with­out having achieved victory." 
His  speneh  Wednnsday  at  
Annapolis, Md.,  was  to focus  on  
progress in the effort to  train  an  

Iraqi security forcn and allow t.he gradual exit of U.S. military forces. 
Later spnedws over the nnxt two weeks arn to nmphasizn the strides being made in nstablishing a stahln, democratic govnrnnwnt and ITnating a viabln economy. 
In ,hrne, Bush dnlivm·nd a prinw­tin1n addrnss from Fort Bragg, N.C., on the lirst annivnrsary of Iraq's sov­erPignty. Latnr in the sumnwr. tlw prnsident trind to blunt thn nwssage of anti-war activist Cindy Sheehan, who camped outsidn his Texas ranch. 

~-----~---~------------------­
page 6 Wednesday, November 30, 2005
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Lovitt 
continued from page 1 
as "kind of a blow, really," Finlen said. "One more option not available." 
Lovitt's case focused largely on an Arlington court clerk's destruction of DNA evidence that defense attorneys said could have been used in his appeal to prove the innocence Lovitt has maintained from the beginning. 
Other controversial aspects of the case included the validi­ty of a jailhouse snitch's testi­mony against Lovitt and the initial. defense team's failure to investigate Lovitt's troubled childhood backgrou'nd ­something the Supreme Court has explicitly required in the past, Starr told The Observer last April. 
Finlen is "absolutely thrilled" with Warner's decision and called it "great news" for both Lovitt and his attorneys. 
Kirkland & Ellis released a statement Tuesday commend­ing Warner's decision as "entirely proper given the extraordinary circumstances of Mr. Lovitt's case." 
But while Lovitt's sentence was commuted, Finlen said he thought the decision could actually strengthen Virginia's capital punishment system. 
"Robin is saved, but on the other hand, this may provide a legitimacy to the death penalty in Virginia," Finlen said. "Proponents [of the death penalty] will likely say that the governor's actions indicate that clemency power is providing the necessary failsafe to capital punishment." 
In his statement, Warner said clemency should be reserved for "the most extraordinary circumstances." 
"Among these are circum­stances in which the normal and honored processes of our judicial system do not provide adequate relief -circum­stances that, in fact, require executive intervention to reaf­firm public confidence in our justice system," Warner said. 
The then 
Notre Dame law professor Richard Garnett said chal­lenges to the death penalty -a practice currently allowed in 38 U.S. states-have been 

present for decades, but not 
seriously considered, since 
capital punishment is included 
in the U.S. constitution. 
But in 1972, the landmark 
Furman v. Georgia case 
prompted the Supreme Court 
to void the death penalty 
statutes of 40 states and com­
muted 629 death row sen­
tences, according to informa­
tion provided by the Death 
Penalty Information Center. 
Garnett said while the 
Furman case did not say the 
death penalty was "always and 
everywhere unconstitutional," 
it required the modification of 
state statutes to include two 
key legal buzzwords: "narrow­
ing" and "individualization." 
"The death penalty has to be 
administered using statutes 
more narrowly crafted," 
Garnett said. "It's not for every 
murder, but 'aggravated' mur­
ders ... and the jury must con­
sider potential mitigating cir­
cumstances." 
In 1976, the Gregg v. Georgia case presented revised state statutes to the Supreme Court, which approved the changes .and made the death penalty permissible as outlined by the 
new statutes. 
"The pipeline started again," 
Garnett said. "Capital cases 
take a long time ... [so it] took 
a while for the pipeline tg start 
flowing." 
The complex process meant a 
"backlog" of cases, which 
ac;counts for the increased rate 
of executions in the 1990s, 
Garnett said. 
The now 
Political science professor 
Peri Arnold said he felt debate 
about capital punishment has 
increased in recent years. 
"We increasingly become 
sensit~ve to the racial disparity 
in capital punishment," Arnold 
said. "That leads some people 
to think there's injustice in the 
death penalty." 
The other major point of 
debate, Arnold said, is 
"increasing suspicion that not 
everybody who goes to their 
death is not necessarily found 
guilty." 
The potential for innocence 
was a key point in Lovitt's case 
and the reason former Illinois 
governor George Ryan institut­
ed the nation's first moratori­
um on state executions in 
2000. 
"We've found some [who 

have been executed] innocent," Arnold said. "Have we sent some people to their deaths?" 
Law professor Jay Tidmarsh said while "there's always argument about whether or not [the death penalty] is really a deterrent," innocence is a dif­ferent kind of argument. 
In an imperfect world, "we struggle with the fact of imper­fection," he said. 
And Tidmarsh said innocence doesn't necessarily mean free­dom from punishment. 
_"You don't have a federal constitutional right to be released from custody because you're innocent," Tidmarsh said. "It may sound bizarre, but it's true ... as long as pro­cedural [aspects] are fair." 
Garnett mentioned debate about racial issues, that some people argue the current sys­tem is not "colorblind." 
Arnold also cited a religious aspect to recent discussion ­the Catholic Church's stand against capital punishment, a position voiced by the late Pope John Paul II. 
For Garnett, who believes the death penalty should be abol­ished because "it distorts our law, and it costs too much, and it doesn't yield significant ben­efits," it's this last point that is the most important, the "qeep­er reason." 
"''m inclined to agree with the late Pope," he said. "It's more consistent with the cul­ture of life." 
Finlen said his experience working on Lovitt's case and researching the death penalty for a project through the Hesburgh Program in Public Service opened his eyes to dif­ferent sides of the issue and shifted his perspective. 
"You have to have a foolproof system, or you can't have one at all," he said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edn 

Professor sheds light on infant co-sleeping 
Special to the Observer 
If sleepless nights and stretch marks aren't enough, new mothers also can expect a litany of unsolicited and often uncompromising opin­ions and judgments on the best way to care for their babies. 
Even the medical communi­ty is divided on questions of infant care, with conflicting information and shifting directives issued every few years to new parents. 
Should babies be breast-fed or bottle-fed? For how long? Is it safe to sleep with new­borns? If so, for a few months or for several years? Are babies safest sleeping on their backs or their tummies? 
The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), regarded by many as the authority on infant well-being, recently reversed recommendations it issued earlier this year, and now cautions against "any and all mother-infant bed sharing." Along with that reversal came the recommen­dation that all babies use pacifiers during sleep -quite a change from its earlier position issued in February of this year that encouraged, among other things, "exclu­sive breast-feeding for approximately the first six months and support for breast-feeding for the first year and beyond as long as mutually desired by mother and child." 
Confusing, isn't it? Anthropologist James McKenna, director of Notre 
Dame's Mother-Baby Behavioral Sleep Laboratory and a renowned expert on infant co-sleeping, breast­feeding and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), served as one of three expert panel members for the AAP committee that made this most recent recommendation against bed-sharing. However, he voted against the recommendation. 
Based on his scientific stud­ies and familiarity with how mothers bed share and what it means to families, McKenna points to the differences among contemporary cultural practices, personal prefer­ences and just good science. 
"The truth is, not all fami­lies and babies are the same," he said. "Bed sharing is a het­erogeneous practice with out­comes ranging from lethal when practiced unsafely to being beneficial and protec­tive when practiced safely. 
McKenna considers infant co-sleeping unsafe when either or both parents are chemically impaired; if the mother smokes, sleeps in a chair, sofa or recliner with a baby; when babies are placed on thick pillows; when other children are permitted to sleep in the same bed; or if the baby is placed in the prone -or tummy -position to sleep. 
"The AAP 'one-size-fits-all' recommendation certainly shows that Western medical authoritative knowledge has failed to learn tragic lessons from our past," says McKenna. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CHORALE & CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 

8:00 
p.m. • Friday, December 2, 2005 

8:00 
p.m.· Saturday, December 3, 2005 


LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
~i~1»J 
'~<f! TICKETS $10/$8/$6/$3 MARIE P. DEBARTOLO PHONE 574-631-2800 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
Wednesday, November 30, 2005 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,888.16 -2.56
jones 
~. 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,957 2,268,341,700
154 !~"' 

AME.X I ,696.69 ~ 1.16 NASDAQ -6.66
2.~4Jf.}l

NYSE. 7.692.99 +5.57 S&PSOO I ,257.48 +0.02 NIKKB(Tokyo) 14.927.70 o.oo FTSE. IOO(London) 5,491.00 +13.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW) .o.n -0.03 3.89 NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) -0.47 -0.197 41.343 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.17 +0.03 17.51 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.25 -0.07 27.68 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.30 -0.08 26.78 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +1.36 +0.63 46.90 I0-YEAR NOTE +1.72 +0.76 44.82 5-YEARNOTE + 1.87 +0.81 44.02 3-MONTH BILL + 1.49 +0.57 38.87 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.86 56.50 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +0.90 503.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.85 87.50 
E.xcha Rates 

YEN 
119.7550 EURO 
0.8490 POUND 

0.5820 CANADIAN$ 
1.1691 
IN BRIEF 
U.S. eases ban on poultry imports 
WASHINGTON -The United States has relaxed a ban on poultry imports from British Columbia initially sparked by the discovery of bird rlu in a duck raised in the Canadian province. 
The strain of bird flu is now known to be low-pallwgenk'and poses no threat to human lwallh, unlike the more virulent form in Asia that has killed dozens of people, the Agriculture Department. 
U.S. oflkials said they banned on Nov. 21 all poultry imports from British Columbia until their Canadian counterparts eould identify the virus, later found on a second, nearby farm as well. Several Asian eounlries that quiekly fol­lowml the U.S. lead now are expected to relax lhnir bans as well. 
In the days after the Nov. 18 diseovery of the virus, Canadian ollieials killed nearly 58,000 ducks and geese on the two farms, located outside Vaneouver, said Brian Evans, Canada's chief vet11rinary ollicer. 
Goldman Sachs builds headquarters 
NEW YOHK -Goldman Sachs broke ground Tuesday on its $2.4 billion headquarters near the World Trade CP.ntnr site, whieh state lead­llrs hope will serve as the eatalyst to lure other l'inaneial eompanies to millions of square fiHlt of' proposed ol'f'iee spaee. 
"If' Goldman builds here, others will eome. And we need others to eome," U.S. Sen. Charles Sehumer, D-N.Y., said at the ceremony to mark the beginning of construction on the 43-story tower just south of the site. 
State and city ollkials went through months of rwgotiations to persuade Goldman Saehs to build and struek a deal in August that indudes $1.(>5 billion in tax-nxompt government bonds. 
Thn lwadquartnrs, with 2.1 million squarn fn11t of ortieo spaco to houso at least 9,000 Pmployees, is scheduled for completion in 
2()()1J. 
"(;oldman Saehs has ealled Lownr Manhattan its home for 1:H> years and wo are proud to rnaffirm our commitment to this rwighhorhood and to the city of Now York," said (;oldman Sachs (;roup Inc. chairman and CEO llnnry M. Paulson. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Merck faces start·of third Vioxx trial 
Pain reliever caused husband's death; Merck knew complications, plaintiff claims 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -A lawyer representing the widow of man who claims that Merck . & Co.'s Vioxx eaused her husband's death argued on Tuesday that taking tho pain reliev­er for one month was enough to eause the 53­year old man's heart attaek. 
But Merck eountered in opening statements at the first federal Vioxx trial that its extensive studies of the painkiller before intro­dueing it in 1999 showed no evidence it eaused heart attaeks with short­term use, and that heart disease, not Vio:xx, led to Hie hard "Dicky" Irvin's death. 
Unlike the two previous state-level easos where Merck emerged with a loss and then a win after sever­al weeks, the federal ease before U.S. District Judge Eldon Fallon of New Orleans appeared to rush along at a headlong paee. 

It took about two hours to pick a jury of live men and four women, three of whom are alternates. Opening statements for the plaintiff-Irvin's widow, Evelyn Irvin Plunkett ­took about an hour and Merck's opening took about the same time. 

The ease is in Houston rather than its original venue of New Orleans beeause of damage wrought by Hurricane Katrina. 
Jurors will be asked to decide whether Vioxx con­tributed to the fatal heart attack Irvin suffered in May 2001. The 53-year-old manager of a wholesale seafood distributor in St. Augustine, Fla. had been taking the drug for about a month to alleviate back pain when his co-workers found him dead at his desk. 

"There was nothing that would have triggered a fatal heart attack exeept for Vioxx," Plunkett's attorney Andy Birchfield told jurors. 
This is the third trial Merck is facing over Vioxx 's safety. It lost the first state trial in Texas last August, but scored a vietory in its home state of New Jersey earlier l.his month. 
Whitehouse Station, N.J.­based Merck withdrew Vioxx from the market in September 2004 after a long-term study showed the drug doubled risk of heart attack or stroke if taken for 18 months or longer. By then, more than 20 million Americans had used Vioxx. 
Birchfield told jurors that Merck likes to eherry pick the 18-month hall­mark to demonstrate that the drug could not have caused problems in patients who look it for a shorter time. But he told jurors a study showed Vioxx can cause problems after just seven days. 
He said that Merek knew about Vioxx's safety prob­!ems before it was launehod. Birchfield quot­ed from internal e-mails, including some from Merek seientists who raised warning flags about its cardiovascular risks, to support his assertions. 
Morek made a "prenwdi­tated, finaneial deeision" not to warn patients about the drug's risks boeause it wanted the revonue the former $2.5 billion sellor would generato, and longed to beat Pfizer lne.'s eompoting drug Celnbrex in the marketplaen, Bin:hfield said. 

Disability benefit programs declared outdated 
benefit programs are based on a pol­recommendations," Social Security
Associated Press 

icy principle that assumes that the Administration spokesman Mark 
WASIIINGTON -Federal rules presence of a significant disability Lassiter said. used to determine who's disabled are and lack of substantial earnings Congress and tho ageney have nearly 50 years old and need to be equate with a complete inability to made it easior for Americans who updated to refleet eeonomic, medical work," council ehairman Lex Frieden collect disability to make more while and technological advances, a gov­wrote President Bush in submitting retaining their benefits, aecording to ernment panel says. the report, which assesses efl'orts to the eouneil. However, less than half 
Many Americans with disabilities promote employment among the dis­of one percent or those reelliving are willing and able to work but abled. either supplemental soeurity ineonw remain thwarted from seeking jobs Also, federal etl'orts to make it eas­or disability insurance ever leave thn by Social Security Administration ier for the disabled to work have had rolls to seek work, the council said, guidelines that discourage eeonomie little effect since few people are eiting Soeial Security and c;ennral independence, aecording to the aware of the ineentives and how they Aeeounting Ol'lien reports. National Couneil on Disability report affect aceess to benefits and health "The bottom line, from my pnr­being released Wndnesday. eare, the report found. And the speetive, is the biggnst programs that 
Applicants for disability insuranee months and years it can take benefi­sorve people with disabilities arn must prove a eomplete inability to ciaries to eonvince Social Seeurity from an era wlwn expm:tations Wlll'l1 engage in "substantial gainful aetivi­that they are disabled and eannot not as groat as tlwy are today," said ty," aeeording to rules adopted in work can leave them leery of Andrew lmparato, prnsidnnt of thn 1956. About 6.5 million people nnrolling in any employment or Arneriean Assoeialion of Pnopln with re.ceived disability benefits in 2002, training program that might jeopard­Disabilities. Tlwrn was no 11Xpnrta­according to tho latest available ize their benefits, inducting Medieaid lion that thn disabled would nvPr data. or Medicare, it said. want to buy a homo, havl' a carnm· 
"Our nation's eurrent disability "We will be looking carefully at the or start a family, lmparalo said. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 30, 2005 
Teen pleads guilty to 
school shooting 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS The teenage son of a tribal chair­man pleaded guilty Tuesday to a criminal charge for his role in shootings that left 10 people dead on an Indian reservation last March. 
Louis Jourdain, 17, pleaded guilty to threatening interstate communications, according to a docket released by a federal court in St. Paul. 
Two other charges -con­spiracy to commit murder and conspiracy to commit ·offenses against the United States ­were dropped. 
The docket, some of which had been blacked out, gave few details of the charge, saying only that Jour9ain used a com­puter to conduct interstate communications that "could be taken by an objective observer as threatening" sometime between Jan. 1, 2003 and March 2005. 
Most of the proceedings involving Jourdain have been closed to the public because of his age, and the release of the docket marked the first time the charges were even dis­closed. 
Jourdain is the son of Floyd Jourdain Jr., the tribal chair­man of the Red Lake Band of Chippewa. He was also a friend of 16-year-old Jeff Weise, who shot and killed nine people on the northern Minnesota reser­vation before killing himself. 
Floyd Jourdain said authori­ties examined about 400 pages of text messages from his son that covered everything "from girls to music to video games to movies." 
"Unfortunately, some of it might be perceived as threat­ening or inappropriate," he said. "And that is basically what he's decided that he is admitting to today." 
The rampage started when Weise killed his grandfather and his grandfather's girl­friend, then went to Red Lake High School, where he killed seven people in the nation's worst school shooting since Columbine. 
Jourdain was arrested a week after the shooting and remained jailed Tuesday. His trial had been expected to begin in mid-December in fed­eral juvenile court. 
Floyd Jourdain said his son "admits to his wrongheaded and inappropriate use of the Internet, but he does not accept responsibility for the 10 lives lost at Red Lake on March 21 because he is not responsi­ble." 
Carol Stillday Spears, whose 15-year-old daughter, Thurlene, was killed, said she was frustrated to hear that the more serious charge·s against Jourdain were dropped. 
"I think he should be pun­ished. I lost my baby over there," Spears said. Her two other teenage daughters do not attend the school because they are still scared. 
Red Lake Principal Chris Dunshee said he hopes the plea "will lend to the healing process and not be something that will cause more divisive­ness." 
Messages left at the office of Jourdain's attorney, Jon Hopeman, were not immedi­ately returned. 
Possibility of cocaine 
trafficking on the rise 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON More cocaine is likely to come into the United States from South America as the U.S. diverts resources from its drug-control strategy to hurricane relief and the war on terror, congression­al investigators say. 
The report prepared by the Government Accountability Office, an investigative arm of CongFess, found that U.S. cocaine seizures from 2000 to 2004 increased by 68 percent to a record 196 metric tons in the "transit zone," the area between the U.S. and South America. 
But the Pentagon's attention to armed conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq and the Homeland Security Department's focus on Hurricane Katrina threaten to undermine recent achieve­ments, the GAO said in its report. 
The report, an advance copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press, offers a sobering look at the future of government efforts to stymie America's $65 billion illegal drug habit. It notes that while drug seizures have increased, 
U.S. cocaine supplies and the number of users (2 million) have not fallen, apparently due to a rise in shipments. 
"We need to be more effec­tive and better prepared because these are routes that not only move illicit drugs today, but can easily move other more dangerous com­modities such as terrorists in the future," said Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, who request­ed the study. · 

In the report, the GAO point­ed in particular to reduced use of the Navy's P-3 maritime patrol aircraft "due to struc­tural problems," a slowing Coast Guard response because of aging ships, and a surface radar system on Coast Guard aircraft that is "often inopera­ble." 
Since fiscal year 2000, the number of hours flown by the Navy P-3s has decreased near­ly 60 percent to about 1,500 hours in fiscal year 2005, according to the study. 
"Various factors pose chal­lenges to maintaining the cur­rent level of transit zone inter­diction operations," the GAO said in calling on the Pentagon and Homeland Security to develop a long-term strategy to plan for a likely shortfall in ships and aircraft. 
In their official responses, the departments said they were working to boost resources for drug control but acknowledged they were con­strained partly by the per­ceived threat level as well as availability offunding. 
ABC, CBS to air movies on Pope 
Networks go head-to-head with controversial movies about John Paul II 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Controversial depictions of romance, hero­ism, anti-Communism and molestation scandals are part of two new biopics on the life of Pope John Paul II. 
When TV networks pursue the same ideas they typically pretend otherwise. But ther·e was unambiguous rivalry as ABC and CBS rushed their movies through production after John Paul's death April 
2. 

Now they're airing almost head-to-head: ABC's two-hour ·"Have No Fear: The Life of Pope John P.aul II" at 8 p.m. EST on Thursday, and CBS's two-part "Pope John Paul II" at 9 p.m. Sunday and the fol­lowing Wednesday at 8. 
Both productions portray a remarkable man who worked with Christian colleagues to outlast brutal tyranny under both Nazis and Communists, preaching resolute resistance without descending to terror­ism. He then became one of history's great popes. 
Neither film measures up to the Hallmark Channel's "A Man Who Became Pope," a four-hour European epic that aired in August. But both new films are lavishly produced, well-acted and eminently watchable for believer and skeptic alike. 
ABC's effort, filmed in Lithuania and Rome, casts Thomas Kretschmann (Captain Rosenfeld in "The Pianist") as Wojtyla. It suffers from cram­ming vast material into limited time, with the tale jerking along from one vignette to the next. 
CBS's more leisurely pace allows storytelling flow and narrative context. Filmed in Poland and Rome, it also bene­fits from Academy Award win­ner Jon Voight's portrayal of John Paul from his elevation to his death. 
However, it's disconcerting that CBS has Cary Elwes (Dr. Lawrence Gordon from "Saw") playing Wojtyla as an adult through the conclave that made him pope. All of a sud­den, Voight materializes as the brand-new pope on the bal­cony overlooking St.· Peters Square. 
CBS so·ught and received Pope Benedict XVI's blessing at a Nov. 17 screening, while ABC emphasizes that it pro­ceeded without Vatican assis­tance. For the most part that makes little difference _ but three ABC scenes will spark debate. 
When Polish workers rise against their Communist over­lords and Soviet troops mass near the border, ABC has John Paul notifying the Kremlin that if it invades Poland, "I will relinquish the throne of St. Peter and stand at the barri­cades with my fellow Poles." There's nD evidence for that implausible claim. 
CBS avoids such mythologi­cal heroics, but perpetuates the equally debatable claim that after meeting President Reagan in private, John Paul reported that "we decided to work together" against Communism. 
Second, ABC has John Paul berating El Salvador Archbishop Oscar Romero over his Marxist-tinged theology, then being· stricken with guilt after a right-wing death squad murders Romero. Third, when America's molestation scandal erupts in 2002, an aide says "they accuse you too" and John Paul replies, "I accept this criticism.... I have asked for forgiveness." 
There's no corroboration for either incident. 
Though most previous popes were cloistered young adults, Wojtyla was a handsome ama­teur actor at university, and all three TV depictions toy with his relationships to women. 
The Hallmark Channel had Wojtyla kiss a woman, but only to fool Nazi soldiers. ABC's racier Wojtyla delivers a warm kiss to a classmate, but she says no liaison is possible because she's Jewish. With CBS, Wojtyla walks arm in arm with a woman, but says he's too occupied with Nazi occu­pation to think of romance. 
The most intriguing bit, plausible but hard to prove, is on CBS: 
Warsaw's indomitable Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski, who was incarcerated by both Hitler and Stalin, omits Wojtyla on his list of bishop candidates submitted to the Polish Communists for approval. The regime rejects all names on the list and Wojtyla becomes a bishop at a notably young 38. 
Did Wyszynski bypass Wojtyla as too nave about Communism, or too liberal on church issues? Or did he know his endorsement would be the kiss of death and purposely plot to make sure Wojtyla became a bishop? 
The question lingers after the credits fade. 

Stop Shoppingl 
monthly tuition board payments, ir cut, and grab ro,.
tlaFortune nter! 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
021 LaFortune Student Center 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 


Wednesday, November 30, 2005 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
BRITAIN 
Debate over nuclear povver begins 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Prime Minister Tony Blair opened a fierce debate on energy and the environment Tuesday, saying the British government will consider building a new gen­eration of nuclear power plants. 
In a speech briefly delayed by anti-nuelear activists, Blair said an energy study due to be finished next summer would look specifically at nuclear power. 
lie acknowledged that reconsideration of a long­standing move away from the usn of atomic reactors to gen­erate electricity is a "difficult and challenging" issue. 
"What we need is a serious debate, not one cond uctPd by protest or demonstration to stop people expressing their views," he said, referring to two c;nwnpeacn activists who climbed into the raftnrs or a London conl'nrence hall, forc­ing Blair's spneeh to be moved to a rwarby site. 
Many Europeans have strongly opposed nuclear powPr plants sinee the 1986 Chernobyl reactor disaster incrnasml fears about its safe­ty, but Britain is not alone in beginning to rethink that aver­sion. 
Finland this year becamn the first western European coun­try to bngin construction of a reaetor since 1991. France, which almady generates much of its electricity with nuclear plants, plans to start building a nnw-generation reactor in 2007. 
The conservativPs in c;nrmany's new "coalition gov­ernment want to keep some nuelear plants going, although the Social Democrats in the power-sharing Cabinet insist on sticking with a plan to shut­ter all those facilities by 2021. Italy's industry minister said earlier this year that the pub­lic's negative feelings about atomic power were weaken­ing. 
Opponents, including many in Blair's governing Labour Party, worry about accidents or terrorist attacks at nuclear plants and the need to dispose of radioactive waste safely. 
Advocates say nuclear power, which does not gener­ate greenhouse gases that con­tribute to global warming, is environmentally beneficial. They also believe it will become increasingly necessary as world oil supplies tighten. 
"The issue back on the agen­da with a vengeance is energy policy," Blair said. "Energy prices have risen. Energy sup­ply is under threat. Climate change is producing a sense of urgency." 
For Britain, the problem is getting worse as oil and natu­ral gas production in its own North Sea fields declines. Blair said that by 2020, coal and nuelear plants that now gener­ate more than 30 percent of the country's electricity supply will be decommissioned. · 
"Some of this will be replaced by renewables, but not all of it can," he argued. "In Britain, on any basis, we also have the issue of our transition from being self-suf­ficient in gas supply to being an importer." 
A government policy paper on energy resources will be 
Want to be in charge of the largest concert on campus? 
issued early in the summer of 2006 and will address the pos­sibility of a new generation of nuclear rea·ctors that could help provide enough energy for Britain, Blair said. 
Energy Minister Malcolm Wicks, who is leading the review, said it will also look at coal, gas, renewable energy sources and other new tech­nologies. It will also examine energy efficiency and the energy used for transporta­tion. 
Nuclear power now provides a fifth of Britain's electricity, but the country's 12 nuclear power plants are aging and unless replaced will provide only 4 percent of electricity by 2010. 
David Willetts, trade and industry spokesman for the opposition Conservative Party, said the energy review was crucial. 
"People want to know that when they flick the switch the light will come on, that their fuel bills are affordable; and that we meeting our targets to cut (carbon dioxide) emis­sions," he said. , 
Greenpeace rejected the idea of building new nuclear plants. 
"Nuclear power is not the answer to climate change ­it's costly, dangerous and a terrorist target," said Stephen Tindale, director of the group's British branch. 
The two Greenpeace protest­ers delayed Blair's speech when they got up in the rafters of the conference hall and unfurled a banner reading: "Nuclear: wrong answer." Police said they were detained on suspicion of aggravated trespassing. 
IRAQ 
Video show-s peace activis~s held hostage 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -After a monthslong hiatus in the kid­napping of foreigners, televi­sion footage once again showed Westerners held cap­tive: A German archaeologist -bound and blindfolded ­knelt among masked gunmen in one video and four fright­ened peace activists were shown in another blurry tape. 
The latest attacks are part of a new wave of kidnappings police fear is aimed at disrupt­ing next month's national elec­tions. 
There was other violence Tuesday: Two American sol­diers were killed by a roadsidP. bomb north of Baghdad, a Sunni cleric was assassinated as he left a mosque, and a sui­cide car bomber killed eight Iraqi soldiers and wounded five. 
But while assassinations and car bombings have raged on, abductions of foreigners had fallen off in Iraq as most Westerners fled the country or took refuge in heavily guarded compounds. 
Since Friday, however, 11 foreigners, ineluding an American, have been abduct­ed. Six were Iranian pilgrims -though Iranian television said all were later releasHd. 
On Tuesday, Al-Jazeera broadcast video or the four peace activists held by a previ­ously unknown group calling itself the Swords of Highteousness Brigade. 
The group claimed its hostages were spies working under the cover of Christian peace activists. The captives -the American, a Briton and two Canadians -were mem­bers of the Chicago-based aid group Christian Peacemaker Teams, which confirmed they disappeared Saturday. 
The footage showed Norman Kember, a retired Britjsh pro­fessor with a shock of white hair, sitting on the floor with three other men. The camera revealed the 74-year-old Kember's passport, but the other hostages were not iden­tified. 
However, Christian Peacemaker Teams confirmed that the others were Tom Fox, 54, of Clearbrook, Va.; James Loney, 41, of Toronto; and Harmeet Singh Sooden, 32, a Canadian electrical engineer. 
In a statement, Christian Peacemaker Teams said it strongly opposed the U.S. invasion of Iraq and blamed the kidnapping on coalition forces. 
"We are angry because what has happened to our team­mates is the result of the actions of the U.S. and U.K. government due to the illegal attack on Iraq and the contin­uing occupation and oppres­sion of its people," the group said. 
Christian Peacemaker Teams does not consider itself a fun­damentalist organization, a spokeswoman said. 
"We are very strict about this: We do not do any evan­gelism, we are not missionar-. ies," Jessica Phillips told The Associated Press in Chicago. "Our interest is to bring an end to the violence and destruction of civilian life in Iraq." 
The group's f'irst activists went to Iraq in 2002, six months before the U.S.-led invasion, Phillips said, adding that a main mission since the invasion has been document­ing alleged human rights abuses by U.S. forces. 
Loney, a community worker, was leading the Christian group's delegation in Iraq. 
Fox, tho eaptive from Virginia, has two children, plays the bass clarinet and the recorder and worked as a pro­fessional groeer and at a Quaker youth camp, according to the statement. 
Sooden was studying for a masters degrp,e in English lit­erature at Auckland University in New Zealand to prepare for a teaching eareer. 
Kember is a longtime peace activist who once fretted pub­licly that he was taking the easy way out by protesting in safety at home while British soldiers risked their lives in Iraq. lin and his wife of 45 years have two daughters and a grandson, the group said. 
The brief', blurry tape was shown the same day a televi­sion st~ttion displayed a photo of the German hostage. The kidnappers threatened to kill Susanne Osthoff and her Iraqi driver unless Germany halts all contacts with the Iraqi gov­ernment. 
Osthoff and lwr Iraqi driver were kidnapped Friday, and Gorman's AHD public televi­sion said it obtained a video in whieh the kidnappers made their thrnats. The station post­
ed a photo on its Web site showing what appears to be Osthoff and her driver blind­folded on the floor, with three masked militants standing by, one with a rocket-propelled grnnadn. 
A German newspaper, the Neue OsnabruPcker Zeitung, reported that Osthoff had received a kidnap threat last summer from extremists linked ti> ai-Qaida in Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi and that U.S. soldiers brought her from Mosul to Baghdad for her own safety. 
Lt. Col. Barry Johnson, a 
U.S. military spokesman, said he was unawarn of the report but if true, such a move would have been with the knowledge of the German government and "we would ultimately leave it to them" to comment. 
Osthoff's mother told Germany's N24 news station that her daughter was an archaeologist who was work­ing for a German aid organi­zation distributing medicine and medical supplies since before the 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq. 
Germany has ruled out send­ing troops to Iraq and opposed the U.S.-Ied war, but has been training Iraqi police and mili­tary outside the country. 
Iraq was swept by a wave of kidnappings and beheadings of foreigners in 2004 and early 2005, but such attacks have dropped off in recent months as many Western groups have left and security precautions for those who remain have tightened. Insurgents, induding al-Qaida in Iraq, have seized more than 225 people, killing at least 38 -including three Americans. 


Apply to be the chairman of THE SHOW 2006. Applications available at theshow.nd.edu. 
Applications are due December 12th by 4 pm to the Student Activities Office. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 · Wednesday, November 30, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Privately public 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER 8r GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scenc.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer {USPS '599 24000) ts pubiL~hcd Monday through Friday O.::<:t!pt during exam and vaoation ptriods. A subscription oo The ObstMr 1$ $10() for ()nt ac:a<!cmic year; $55 fur one $emes[er. 
The Obsetvtris published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corn:<:"dOIUI to: 
Notre O;t.me, JN 46556.0719 The: Ob.'K!rvet 
Periodkal postage paid mNoue Dame P.O. Jlo<779 
and additionitl mailing offici$, 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Norre Dame:, IN 46556·0779 
The: Ob~rver is a mc:mher vfthe At;so,iatcd Pte~. AJJ reptoduaioll dghu arc resct'\'cd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Kate Antonacci Peter Nienernann Sports Ken Fowler Viewpoint Chris Khorey Alyssa Fran Tolen Brauweiler Scene Graphics Brian Doxtader Graham Ebetsch 
One of the things I think I'll miss the most about college will be the sheer joy of having your friends run around with you on your mundane errands. So many times, friends have asked me to walk with them to turn in papers or buy a magazine from the bookstore; and that's totally normal. Our lives are not inun­dated with so many personal tasks daily so we gladly share each other's tasks. Also we turn every thing into a chance to be with each other and con­verse -hence study­ing groups, cooking parties and errand pairing. 
However, I fear we shall see the last of errand pairing when college is over. For example, one day I went with a friend to the salon while she got her hair cut. I had nothing else to do and it was on campus. Yet, ifI were living in Chicago and my friend asked me to come to watch her get her hair cut on the other side of town, I would defmitely decline. 
When you leave a place like Notre Dame, which is extremely communal and sharing, your identity and time use would be most tied with the things you need and want to do. The question is not "How can I spend as much time with others as possi­ble?" but, "How can I spend my time most wisely to maximize my goals?" While we may still strive to wind the hours with companions, the demands of work and rest may keep us from late night grocery runs with our friends. 
Yet, there is a distinct beauty of errand pairing. Going to the store or the post 

Kama ria Porter 
K-Mart's Blue Light Special 
office can be so boring. You are in a place surrounded by people, but it is not normal to be talking with them. The loneliness of errand-running probably explains why parents drag their unwitting children to bulk shopping at Target-any compan­ionship is preferred when shopping for 16 packs of paper towels (critiquing the mer­its of stockpile shopping will follow). 
Also, errand loneliness disorder has caused the rise in cell phone usage. In absence of actual people to talk to, people shop and dial, most annoyingly on those hands-free things, bewildering the other shoppers braving the errand-running on their own. When people are looking right at me, talking right at me, and there is no one else around, I usually speak back -to my embarrassment. 
Therefore, a friend and I have devised a way to keep errand pairing alive and well. With so many searching for dates on Match.com, Yahoo personals and the like for what Mother Nature intended to occur in bars, parties and coffee shops, why not use the internet to match people who want an errand companion together? This could be the answer for so many dreading going to the farmers market one more time without someone to compare fresh squash with. The website c~uld also list what type of errands you like to do and fmd an adequate partner for you. If you love going to used record stores, weird alternative spirit stores for tarot cards or street fairs, your errand profile would state that. You could also vary the people you run errands with as well. If you spark in conversation with a fellow bulk shop­per, but cannot take him to the record store, set up a second errand friend for the second thing on the list. 
I cannot imagine a better way to reduce cell phone costs, get your errands done and meet new people. Yet be advised, this is not dating. People looking for relation­ships had better keep looking. Errand pairing is about livening up those every­day, boring tasks that could use some inane small talk. It should be a rule -no spewing your guts on an errand; you would not do that anyway with a person you met recently and will never see again. Let us use the errand pairing service for what the Internet is best at: impersonal, short and effieient communication and task completion (anti-technology rant on the way.) 
Besides the cell phone usage in stores, there is the whole bucket of worms pro­vided by the iPod. My unease with the iPod probably comes from the fact I do not have one, but it's crazy how many people are plugged up to those trendy white ear­phones everywhere. I think there should be a mandate that everyone on head­phones should sing what he is listening to. Then public places would be more like a Tower of Babel musical than a silent crowded place. 
So maybe taking out an ad for someone to sit with you to get your oil checked is not a great idea. Neither is singing Dolly Parton's Jolene on the subway-unless you have a killer voice. Yet, never speak­ing to people in public places sounds pret­ty ridiculous too. 
Kamaria Porter is a senior history major. This piece goes out to everyone writing long papers cram-style, especially Ben Zerante-You can do it! Also, Stephen Smith, the last action hero. Good luck on the 11th. Thanks for the emails and shoot outs, Notre Dame -you're beautiful. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Are you going to Notre 
Submit aLetter 
"Dictators ride to and fro upon tigers

Dame's bowl game? 
they dare not dismount. And the tigers are getting hungry. "

to the Editor at 
Sir Winston Churchill former British Prime Minister 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
' 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 30, 2005 page 11 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rector relationships 
Two weeks ago, The Observer ran a seriers of articles diseussing rnsidenee life infraetions and punishments at Notre Dame ("Crime and Punishment," Nov. 11-18). One of the issues that seemed to be addrnssed, both directly and indirectly, was the role of a rector in studP-nts' lives. 
It's hard to delirw the role of a reetor because they are discipli­narians, but they are not the cops. Rectors play a much more inte­).,'lal role in our lives than the cops. They know us better than the cops. They're thnm for us when we need someone to talk to about big issues or emotional distress -definitely not like the cops. 
The problem is, that ambiguity makes it very tempting to think of a reetor like a mother or a father. But rectors are not mothers and fathers, either. Thinking of a rector in that way is what ean cause pnople to get so angry when their rector "doesn't trust" them or "doesn't forgive" them or "doesn't let something slide." Maybe our moms lilrgivo us for having hard alcohol in the dorm, but our rnetors don't. 
This is something that \las been really hard for me personally to deal with: Defining my reetor's role in my own life. When she responds to things that I do, it is hard lor me to understand her responses, beeausn she doesn't treat me like the cops do, but she doesn't treat me likn my mom does, either. I guess the important thing to knep in mind is, if I'm having trouble defining my rector's role in my lili1, think of how much harder it must be for her to play that ambiguous role. I realize more and more: A rector is a role that dnserves just as much respect as a cop-and just as much ).,'latitude as a mother. 
Kathryn Kemnetz junior Lewis Hall Nov. 29 
U-WIRE 
A high concentration of football fans in one placP turns us into cavemen, shedding our intelligence like a bad habit. We swag­ger, we swear, we scream epithets at the other team -and that's just the girls. 
Take the BYU-Utah game, When I got close Laurie to the stadium entrance, Frost IliJit myself regressing into a more primeval Brighc:m H;mng form. llocked eyes with Unwerszty a Ute fan and I had an The Daily urgn to go for the jugu­Universe lar. It didn't matter that thL'i fan was eight years old and had big Bambi eyes. lie was the enemy. 
A<> I went to lind my seat, I gripped my licknt stub in my sweaty hand and looked at where my seat should have been. There was a girl standing on the bench, eel) phone glued to her ear and Louis Vuitton bag slung ovor one shoulder. I felt my lisl'i clench and I waded into the crowd to claim my seat. 
I stood before her, hands on my hips, and looked her dead in the eye. I grinned mani­acally and shoved her out of my seat. (It wa.•m't much of a victory, especially since I spent the next quarter with her purse com-
Why fight drugs? 
I completely agree with Ian Ronderos ("The cost of the real war lost," Nov. 29) that the drug war has been a fiasco, and that everything up to and includ­ing cocaine, meth and heroin should be legalized ­assuming that the vast majority of people are rational. I have never had the "pleasure" of trying cocaine myself, but I knew plenty of people who did, and the vast majority of them still lead normal (or, to most people, quasi-normal), functional lives, even ifthey might still indulge in it one to a few times a year. Ditto for the one person I knew who occasion­ally dipped into OxyContin, the Midwest's "hillbilly heroin." (I honestly believe that most students at this school could occasionally use cocaine and lead otherwise functional lives, and ditto for most other hard drugs. After all, studies show that only heroin rivals nicotine in terms of addictive potential.) Even mildly future-oriented people can cope as one per­son described: "My girlfriend didn't see what the big deal was with crack, she tried it three times and then she started to crave it, so she stopped." 
Unfortunately, there is another side of America, the significant "underclass" -both m:ban and rural -whose people have little to live for and who per­ceive no chance of advancing beyond dull, low-pay­ing menial jobs and distinctly unglamorous lifestyles, who don't value the future because they have no rational basis to do so. When I did menial labor at a large business over several high-school summers with a lot of "low-SES" people, I saw a mindset utterly opposite from that of a student at a top-50 college. One worker had to pay garnishments to five different women for six different children (all illegitimate). The overwhelming majority of the workers there had illegitimate children. 
Now, if you care so little about the future that you'd rather repeatedly risk a lot of future inc_ome for illegitimate kids than use condoms, and if the definition of childlike behavior -stay with me -is the inability to defer gratification now for more gratification later, how can the state not treat people with that outlook like infants? If everyone is equal under the law, how can the law not cater to the low­est (significant) common denominator? 
I am as libertarian as the next guy, but the fact is that not all people care enough about the futuro not to go off a cliff (and be high at the same time) in the present. And while "you should be able to do what­ever you want as long as it doesn't harm anybody else," legalized drugs definitely will be my problem when my Medicare dollars start paying for over­coked livers and new teeth for meth tweaks. (Don't see it? Treating obesity is now a Medicare liability. Do you think obese people need treatment more than drug addicts do? Have you no compassion'?) You can either allow people a wide berth to poten­tially destroy themselves or coddle them with a sprawling welfare state, but you can't do both. 
The legalizers' beef isn't really with America's drug laws, but rather with America's values, which have pretensions to "rugged individualism" but actually enthusiastically embrace trial lawyers and welfare sprawl. To see what happens when a soeiety does a 180 from collectivism to individualism, liber­tarians should take a look at Hussia, whore the fittest are certainly thriving-and the unlit can join the mafia, overdose to death or starve. 
It's a small wonder that the legalization diehards ignore the real costs of legalization (they'd have no audience), and a great irony that those who hatn Big Brother the most have bmm most blind to its inl'an­tilizing effects on three generations of Amerieans. 
Alex Forshaw sophomore St. Edward's Hall Nov. 29 

Football kills brain cells 
fortably nestled in my left armpit.) 
Butot all fans are filled with the bloodlust of eompetition. For example, I saw a blonde who I swear was losing brain cells by the minute, but that may not have been because of the football game. She had a high-fashion outfit-as out of place at a football game as a prom dress at Denny's­with a faux fur-lined marshmallow jacket and color-coordinated heels. "Faux Fur," as I like to call her, came with a balding boyfriend with his hat on sideways (batter­ies not included). 
This couple supplied the surrounding fans with a stream of witless conversation. When Faux Fur wasn't asking, "What just hap­pened'?" she was staring vacantly in the direction of the press box. During the half­time show the marching band played America the Beautiful, and she snapped out of it for a minute. 
"Did somebody die?'' she asked her boyfriend. 
Then there was a girl I'll just call "Invade­your-space." We hadn't even exchanged names and she wanted a high-five after every good play and commiseration after every bad play. After she patted my head a couple of times, I was ready to call the Creep police. But instead, I just adopted Faux Fur's technique: staring vacantly at the press box every time Invade-your-space wanted to chat. It worked beautifully. 
I regret to report ignoring didn't work so well with the Wild Woman. The Wild Woman-who was probably in her late 50s -cheered louder, jumped higher and screamed fouler insults than any one of us college kids. 
Only once I was genuinely concerned for my safety around the Wild Woman. There was an announcement to check under your seat for a prize voucher. Sixty-five thousand fans idly looked under their seats, but only one made a point to elbow three people in the process. I guess you can't expect more from a woman who, when the cougar growl came over the loudspeaker, clawed at the air and yelled, "ROWR!!! ROWR!!!" 
But Wild Woman wasn't the only one real­ly getting into the game. The stands were packed with the ex-high school football players who probably played third string water boy. These guys, gut hanging over belt buckle, scream out plays and advice from the 35th row. What's incredible is that they're fully convinced that the players will hear them. "He's wide open!! How could you not see that?!" they scream, spit flying as they try to relive their high school glory days. 
But let us not forget the stupid referee at the U game. With my own eyes, I watched the U running back dive out of bounds, and then watched the ref call it a touchd1)Wn. 
I froze. I couldn't think. I couldn't breathe. All my intelligence, all my higher thought<> and feelings evaporated as my wrath poured out of my very soul in one syllable: "Booooooo!!!!!" 
So why in heaven's name do we, as the heads of the food chain, keep subjecting ourselves to the de-evolution of the LaVell Edwards Stadium? 
I pave no idea. Could somebody pass me my loindoth? 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 29 issue ofThe Daily Universe, the daily publication at Brigham Young University. 
The views expressed in this column are those C!,{the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observf!r. 

Heferendums are clearly being used well by our student body when they force the Associated Students of the Univnrsity of Calili)rnia to waste time bargaining for lost causes. A student Staff group's petition to authorize negotia­Editorial tions with In-N-Out Burger would do just that-if it garnnrs the requisite University of 
1,000 signatures to put it on the bal-California ­lot. Berkeley 
This petition is pointless. For one Daily thing, In-N-Out isn't really interested Californian in coming to UC Berkeley. The l~tst fiHid ehain is rnluctant to set up shop at a site that would not allow a drive thru. What's more, In-N-Out would like­ly want to own the propnrty that its new branch would 
Pointless petition 
inhabit. But this is out of the question -ASUC only rents 
out its campus space. Thus, ASUC hasn't dealt with In-N­
Out for good reason: There's no point. 
Why does a group of students feel the need to push for revitalization of the Bear's Lair? Perhaps because it seems as if student government isn't doing enough to revive the tired student union. For example, in September the ASUC Auxiliary announced that Cheese N' Stull' would be joining .the Bear's Lair. The popular sand­wich joint, however, has yet to make an appearance. 
Students, who haven't seen tangible results eome out of ASUC e!Torts are getting frustrated. While ASUC has made important strides by getting Gelateria Naia and Cheese N' Stull' to actually sign up for a spot on campus, it needs to bring these plans to fruition before students take any more fast food crusades into their own hands. 
Political movements do have their plaen. But you ean't legislate commercial negotiations and you definitely ean't force them through a referendum. Thn petitionnrs' short­sightedness doesn't help, either-they have no plan beyond forcing ASUC to attempt negotiations and don't seem to have considered the negatives. These studnnts should let their eleded reprnsentativns do the job they were chosen for. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Nor .. 29 issue (~{the Daily Californian, the daily publication at the University ofCalifornia -Herkely. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those q{ llw author and not necessarily those of The Obsemm: 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, November 30, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Mangold's Johnny Cash biopic is money 
By GRAHAM EBETSCH 

Scene Critic 
With the recent rise in biography films, this holiday's "Walk the Line" has some hard acts to follow. But the cast of James Mangold's story of country music legend Johnny Cash has risen to the occasion and proved itself to be as good, if not better, than similar musical biopics. 
"Walk the Line" stands in a different class entirely, telling an honest tale of a troubled musician, leaving out the typical Hollywood bells and whistles. 
Though the opening shots are of the infamous Folsom Prison concert, the actu­al plot begins with Cash's upbringing in Arkansas. At a young age, Johnny, or J.R. as his family called him, loses his older brother Jack. As if such an event weren't traumatizing enough, JR's 
Walk the Line
father, a heavy between becoming drinker and harsh the individual and man. tells the being able to doing young boy that great imperson­God "took the ation. While wrong son." Joaquin's speaking
Director: James Mangold 
Cash's father voice isn't dead on, 
. Writers: James Mangold and Gill Dennis
continues the mannerisms,
Starring: Joanquin Phoenix, Reese 
throughout the personality and 
Witherspoon and Robert Patrick 
movie as the singing voice he 
By JAMES COSTA Scene Critic 

Audiences who expect a simple and obvious thriller in "Derailed" might be in for a pleasant surprise. While it encapsulates many of the common ele­ments of the thriller, with surprise twists and obvious methods of fore­shadowing, it succeeds on a far deeper level of connecting the viewer with common human emotions and then interweaving them into a state of con­fusion and mayhem. Still, the film falls short where it really counts. 
The film does have a certain B-movie vibe that seems reminiscent of such films as "Unfaithful" with Richard Gere and "A Perfect Murder" with Michael Douglas. But it succeeds in its and his country music predecessor, June Carter, inspire the most touching scenes. Every event depicted in the film after their first interaction reflects Johnny's obvious desire to be with her, a desire which even­tually ends his marriage to Vivian, isolat­ing him from his two daughters. The movie does not drag on through the death of Cash in 2003. Instead, it concludes with a resolution between June and John:ny. 
Inevitably, "Walk the Line" will be com­pared to last year's stand-out picture, "Ray." While they both incorporate the same basic musician biopic formula of a hard childhood, overcoming obstacles, failed romantic relationships and the eventual substance dependency, the simi­larities end there. 
To compare the performances by .the two leading men would be an injustice. In portraying an iconic celebrity, an actor is confronted with the difficult line 

token parental antagonist whose son's achievements will never meets his expectations. While the basic character is a common one in writing, actor Robert Patrick does a fantastic job in not over­acting the role. After some slow plot pro­gression of Cash's marriage and rise into fame, the story takes off into the main focus of the movie. 
The cat and mouse game between Cash 
picked up from years of studying Cash make for an excellent performance. 
Jamie Foxx, a trained comedian, seems to be more focused on making the most spot-on imitation with the very familiar traits of Ray Charles. "Ray" seems to use the standard Hollywood template for an individual beating adversities and suc­ceeding. But "Walk the Line" is instead a gripping story of Cash made by people 
Thriller 'Derailed' barely stays on track 
Derailed
own right at pre­from the door senting a surpris­
and ·a violent, ingly fresh per­gun-bearing spective to the stranger breaks seedy underworld in. He brutally of sexual infidelity pistol-whips
Director: Mikael Hafstrom 
and deception. Charles into a 
Writer: Stuart'Beattie
The film essen­state of semi-con­tially begins on Starring: Clive Owen, Jennifer An iston, sciousness and 
Vincent Cassel and Melissa George 
the commute to then proceeds to 
a financial consultant with a beautiful baby girl and a negligent husband. Charles feels attracted because he too has a beautiful daughter and faltering marriage. 
Following some innocent commuter flirtation, the two meet for drinks after work. The drinks lead to phone calls to their respective spouses detailing their plans to not come home till morning. Building on their lies together, the two plan a night in a hotel and the begin­nings of an affair. 
After sobering up a bit, Lucinda decides she cannot follow through with the affair. But after standing with Charles in the street for a bit, they both see a seedy hotel and decide to get the room. 
After beginning their interaction in 
the room, a sud­
den burst erupts 
Chicago when, late for work, Charles (Clive Owen) is out of cash and cannot buy a ticket. He is about to be kicked off the train when a gorgeous woman (Jennifer Aniston) offers to pay 
' his fare. 
After a few pleasantries, the two learn they are both successful business people in the city. Lucinda (Aniston) is 
viciously rape 
Lucinda. 

The rape scene is especially powerful and disturbing because it is shot from the perspective of Charles. Drifting in and out of consciousness, he is power­less to stop the horrible acts being per­formed on Lucinda. He wishes to stop them but simply cannot, and the Gam­era and direction conveys this quite who genuinely want the story to be told. 
It is quite refreshing to see Joaquin Phoenix in a role not written by M. Night Shyamalan. Phoenix shows his strength in dramatic acting giving an eerie glimpse in the mind of Cash, especially since Phoenix himself lost his own brother River to a drug addiction. Any Oscar-buzz for this role is well deserved. 
But Reese Witherspoon has the stand out role of the movie and of her career ­as June Carter, Witherspoon has finally decided to fly her acting flag. This role might seem like a stretch for the actress who is two-deep in the "Legally Blonde" franchise, but she tackles it head-on. Witherspoon captures both the witty per­former and the southern girl longing for real love beautifully. Hopefully this will be the gateway to better roles for the talent­ed actress -then again, Jamie Foxx did go on to star in "Stealth." 
Every aspect of "Walk the Line" proves it is the most devoted biopic in recent years. Johnny Cash fans will have all of their expectations fulfilled, and non-fans can't help but be sucked in by the per­formances, the music and the direction. Though 2005 has been a slow year in movies, "Walk the Line" is easily the best yet. 
Contact Graham Ebetsch at gebetsch@nd.edu 


well. 

After deciding not to go to the police because of the danger of exposing their planned infidelity, the two return to their regular lives until the rapist -a French man named Laroche (the dis­turbing Vincent Cassel) demands huge sums of money from Charles in order to protect his family from further vio­lence. 
From this point on in the film, "Derailed" builds slowly and deftly with tension and fear until the shocking truth is revealed. The twist is actually completely surprising. Audiences will very likely be taken in by the shocking climax, which is difficult to predict. 
The film then begins to expose a series of less-important and even more shocking events until ending at a scene that is rather outlandish,·though some­what satisfying. Like most Hollywood thrillers, it thrives on the suspense it builds. 
But on a more important note, "Derailed" fails to say anything new, relevant or insightful about the human condition that the viewer did not already know before seeing the film, though it seems to try. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 


SHOW REVIEW  
By MARY SQUILLACE  the ensemble of characters featured in "Hent" is the lluidity of sexuality among  drag queen takes a backseat to the devotion between himself' and Collins.  tl111ir artistic ambitions in Now York City, the characters also endure the  
Scene Critic  them. The three romantic storylines  This representation is particularly  devastation of AIDS. The play was origi­ 
feature a straight couple, a gay male  relevant today in a world where, not  nally written when AIDS in Ameriea  
With people spontaneously bursting  couple and a lesbian couple. But what  only are homosexual relationships hotly  received an enormous amount of atten­ 
into song and chorus lines materializing  makes this portrayal so innovative is  disputed in the political realm, but most  tion.  
out of thin air in tho background, it can  not the presentation  portrayals of gay men  Today, though discussions about thn  
hn ditlkult to take tho avnrage musical smiously. But "Hnnt" is a musical that  of their sexuality as something novel, but  Nearly 10 years after it  and women tend still to be stereotypical, and  issun have sonwwhat subsided, audi­ences are still. remindnd of the serious  
1~an. and should, bn taknn snriously. "Hnnt is about a eommunity cnlnbrat­ing lifn, in the face of dnath and AIDS at thn turn of the century," said Jonathan  as something that is almost insignificant. Each relationship consists of tribula­ first came to life, Larson's music remains fresh and the show's underlying  are usually peripheral to a central romantic storyline between straight characters.  toll AIDS continues to take on the world's population. Larson penned his musical in part to pay tribute to the friends he'd lost to  
Larson. the musical's creator, prior to his death. Larson worked for seven years to nur­ture the show into bning but died sud­ tions as well as tri­umphs, regardless of the sexuality of char­acters. In fact, each  themes still ring true among audiences across the nation.  Similarly, though the cast is multiracial, the characters Larson cre­ated fail to represent  AIDS, an issue which takes particular relevance this week at Notre Dame. Students will have tho opportunity to assert themselves as part of the cure at  
dnnly Uw night before it was ever per­ couple could conceiv­ any particular racial  a number of events that arn being held  
formnd for an  audience, which effec­ ably be replaced with  archetype.  Instead,  in conjunction with World AIDS Day  
tively added another dimension to the  one of a divergent sexuality without sig­ Larson forefronted how, despite their  2005, on Thursday.  
play's "seize the day" attitude.  nificantly altering the show's plot.  diversity of experiences, the characters  The words, music and spirit of "Hent"  
Now, nearly 10 years after it first  Arguably, the least tumultuous and  connect with one another. They ulti­ have withstood time, and, thanks to the  
came to life, Larson's music remains  most tender relationship is between  mately share the same goal of' thriving  feature film's wide-release, are now  
fresh and the show's underlying themes  Tom Collins and Angel, a drag queen.  in the face of adv.ersity, instead of  available to the population at large.  
still ring true among audiences across  While it's difficult to overlook the fact  merely surviving in the wake of a large  
the nation.  that this is a man dressed in opaque  breadth of challenges.  Contact Mary Squillace at  
One of the most defining features of  tights and a wig, Angel's status as a  In addition to struggling to afford  msquilla@nd.edu  

MOVIE REVIEW  
By MARY SQUILLACE  For those who have had prior exposure to "Rent" ­and particularly for self-pro­ ("Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone") is creative with the locations that he  avoided a potentially sub-par perform­ance, but has given fans an opportunity to  
Scene Critic  claimed "Rent-heads" - the film has a  shoots.  see the original east recording eome to  
slightly different effect, as it certainly  Many of his choices work well, such as  life long after they've left Broadway.  
"llow do you measure a year in the  can't embody the all of' the various visions  the use of a subway car as the location  While most of the cast has earned noto­ 
life?"  · of its extensive fan base. Diehard fans will  for the playful song "Santa Fe," and  riety in the Broadway realm, people who  
The rneontly released "!tent," which  notice a few song omissions and might  depicting Mimi's solo "Out Tonight" as  are unfamiliar with the original east will  
brings Jonathan Larson's 1996 musical  initially be thrown by the lines that are  progression from her show at the Cat  probably recognize the faces of' Jesse 1..  
from the stage to the screen, Jirst poses  spoken instead of  Scratch Club to  Martin (Law and Order) and Tayn Diggs  
then answors this question.  sung in the lilm. But  her attempts to  (How Stella Got tier Groove Back).  
The film follows a year in the life of a  for the most part,  Rent  persuade Hoger  Newcomers to the cast are  Hosario  
group of struggling artists who live in  the film provides a  to take her out.  Dawson, who plays Mimi, and Traein  
New York City in the midst of their own  solid  adaptation,  But some of the  Thoms, who plays Joanne. Thoms is a  
AlllS opidmnk. With an edectie selection  which  is  true  to  Columbus' vision  perfeet lit with the original cast and deliv­ 
of' music ranging from rock to salsa,  Jonathan Larson's  seems  out  of'  ers  in-full with her powerful voien.  
"Hm1t" ehronides the joys and strifes of those young people, but ultimately con­veys its underlying theme living lire to the fullest. But it's possible that audiences will see  musical. In fact, because the stage version is under a number of constraints -as  Director: Christopher Columbus Writer: Steve Chbosky Starring: Anthony Rapp, Rosario Dawson, Adam Pascal and Jessie Martin  place with the rest of' the musi­cal. In particular, a number that illustrates a heat­ Dawson's vocals arnn't as strong and lack the uniqueness of the original Mimi, but she still manages to turn-out a comp1~1ling and emotional performance. Together, the east is truly explosiw~. Tlw  
two  diiTerent movies depending  on  the viewers are fair­ ed lover's quarn~l  ensemble numbers range from being out­ 
wlwther or not they have prnviously seen  ly removed from the action and only a  between Maureen and Joanne takes place  rageously hilarious, to chill-inducing with  
"Hent" performed onstage. For those who  number of locations can be portrayed ­ at a country dub luncheon seems out of'  the emotion they're able  to  convey  
will receive their first glimpse of the criti­ there are a number of opportunities for  synch with the rest of the action that  through their eolleetive voiens.  
cally acclaimed musical via the local  enhancing the show in its cinema version.  occurs in the gritty and boisterous city  A'i a result, tlw lilm is worth taking I:15  
movie theatre, "Hent" will not disappoint.  Through llashbacks and montage, the  A trnat for Hent-heads and "Rent" neo­ of this year's 525,600 minutns to watch.  
The eombirwd fortitude of catchy songs  film is able to account for time and events  phytes alike is Columbus' idea to use  
and a moving message make the movie  that  the  play  ean  only  allude  to.  most of' the original east members for the  Contact Mary Squillance at  
un forgnttahle.  Additionally, director Chris Columbus  movie. In doing this, he has not only  msquilla@nd.edu  



--~-~­

-----------------.. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, November 30, 2005 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Felli!ti's masterpiece showing at DPAC 

DVD REVIEW 
'Stewie Griffin' feature is a hilarious treat for fans 
By BETSY SIMON Scene Critic 

In the face of cancellations, censor­ships, and critical disapprovals, "Family Guy" has emerged with a DVD classic in "Family Guy Presents Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story" -giggity, giggity. 
Keeping to ihe standard and now­familiar "Family Guy" format, creator Seth MacFarlane parodies pop culture, such as "Ferris Bueller's Day Off," "Lethal Weapon" and "The Sound of Music," and ridicules current contro­versial issues such as politics, abortion and incest. 
While the animated Griffin family sat­irizes religion, race and physical dis­ability with the most unnecessarily inappropriate and politically incorrect humor, it is humor nonetheless and very funny humor at that. While it maybe offensive, it is also very funny, which helps overcome the inevitable criticism. 
In classic Hollywood style, the Griffin family arrives at their own movie pre­miere via the red carpet. The laughter begins with the appearance of "Family Guy" favorites, including Mayor Adam West, Drew Barrymore, the Kool-Aid mere magic shows or Walt Disney depicted as outwardly anti-Semitic. 

The memorable jokes and passionate. humor make up for the movie's offensive material, espe­cially since the makers seemed to be having so much fun. 
The insulting and inap­propriate material con-Man and, of course, Greased-up Naked Deaf Guy. 
The appearance of these characters indicates the movie is directed specifi­cally at fans of the series and not at those who aren't well versed in the "Family Guy" world. 
The movie itself does not hesitate to dive immediately into humor as the overweight son, Chris Griffin, executes a perfect triple somersault into the Quahog Public Swimming Pool and the infant son, Stewie Griffin, comes face to face with death. 
Normally obsessed with killing his mother and dominating the world, Stewie's attitude begins to change. After a glimpse into his future as a changed, 30-year old virgin, Stewie becomes the protagonist who attempts to change his past. This provides the crux of the film's plot. 
The movie's unforgettable clips are linked together by Stewie's desire to erase his near-death, life-changing experience. 
From the graphic murder of Bugs Bunny to the blinding of Ray Charles, the family's flashbacks reek of extremely clever postrnodern satire. Although somewhat offensive, th.e provocation of the flashbacks pales in comparison to scenes such as Jesus' 
miracles represented as 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistant Scene Editor 
The brief years between 1959 and 1960 were staggeringly important and groundbreaking in the burgeoning film world-Jean-Luc Godard's "A Bout de Souffle," Michelangelo Antonioni's "L'Avventura" and Francois Truffaut's "Les Quatre cents coups" were all released in that brief span of time. 
Equally important among them was Federico Fellini's "La Dolce Vita" ("The Sweet Life"). the film that catapulted its director to international prominence 
... and one of the towering and 
enduring motion La Dolce Vita ality," and while pictures of its time. 
that may be true, Though not as such an analysis inscrutably bril­suggests that it is liant as his 1963 badly outdated. ·masterpiece "Otto When: Saturday, Dec. 3 at 3 p.m. Surprisingly, the e Mezzo" ("8 1/2") Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC film holds up 
or as poignantly beautiful as 1954's "La Strada," "La Dolce Vita" may stand as the Fellini's best film, and, subse­quently, as one of Italy's best films. 
Eschewing the "cinema veritae" ten­dencies of Italian Neo-Realisrn, "La Dolce Vita" may be the archetypal Fellini film: at once serious and whim­sical, realistic enough to be engagingly grounded, yet just flighty enough to keep its audience unbalanced. 
The film follows gossip columnist Marcello Rubini (Fellini's alter-ego Marcello Mastrioanni) as he explores a staggeringly decadent Rome. He becomes increasingly drawn into the heady hedonism of the world around him, as he finds himself entrenched with socialite Maddalena (Anouk Aimee), his mistress Emma (Yvonne Furneaux) and a bisexual prostitute (Adriana Moneta). 
As Rubini descends into the deca­dence surrounding him, he stops trying to resist and starts accepting the shal­lowness of his life, eventually indulging in "the sweet life" described by the title. 
Critic Lucia Bozzola notes that "La Dolce Vita" was a major success par­
tially due to its 
"then-frank sexu­
remarkably well 
nearly half a cen­tury later, thanks to the unique vision of its director. Admittedly, some ele­ments of the plot haven't dated well, but the stunning widescreen cine­matography and Fellini's eye for corn­position and pacing keep the whole affair afloat. 
There are some indelibly iconic moments sprinkled throughout the film, especially the evocative opening and closing shots, which have helped define a style justifiably called "Fellini­esque." Like all Italian films of the period, "La Dolce Vita" was shot silent­ly and dubbed later, which grants a slightly detached quality that serves Fellini's stylistic tendencies surprising­ly well. 
"La Dolce Vita" is thoroughly an art film, beautifully shot and deliberately paced. At 174 minutes, it's also quite long, but Fellini's directorial sense, and Mastrioanni's strong presence keep the audience engaged throughout. 
It was a major success international­ly, as it won the Palrne d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival and garnered a Best Director Oscar nomination for Fellini and a Best Original Screenplay Oscar nomination. Though it may be argued that the seminal director's other films ("Otto e Mezzo," "La Strada," "Arnarcord") are more person­al, few would argue that "La Dolce Vita" is not a masterpiece, and it endures as one of the defining films of the 1960's. 
"La Dolce Vita" is being screened on Saturday as part of the PAC Classic 100. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy Stewie Griffin (voice of Seth MacFarlane) takes center stage in "Family Guy Presents Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story," which is based on the Fox TV series. 
tained in the movie does not (totally) exceed what "Family Guy" enthusiasts are exposed to on a weekly basis. But for the easily offended viewer, a cen­sored version is provided on the DVD. 
The only other special feature includ­ed is a commentary by show creator Seth MacFarlane (who is also the voice Stewie, Peter and Brian) and other var-. ious cast members. show writers and crew. While more special features would have been welcome, the movie itself is funny enough that they aren't really missed. 
Like the weekly Fox show itself, "Family Guy Presents Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story" only gets better with repeated viewings. The more the movie is seen, the more missed jokes and cleverly placed comedy is enjoyed by alert viewers. 
While more inappropriate than breaking parietals, "Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story" gets two thumbs up -a high-quality reward for "Family Guy" enthusiasts. 
Contact Betsy Simon at esimonl@nd.edu 


GET IN THE HOLIDAY SPIRIT 

BROWNING CINEMA 

e 
Thu.-Sat., Dec. 1-3 at 7 and 10 pm 
Student Tickets: $3 
''TWO thUffibS Way Up." -EBERT & ROEPER 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 30, 2005 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
UConn overcomes slow start to beat Army, 68-54 
Kentucky blasts overmatched High Point; Wake Forest edges Wisconsin, 91-88; Aldridge leads Longhorns to win 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. -Rudy Gay had 17 points, 10 rebounds and five steals, and Connecticut shook off a sluggish start to beat Army 68-54 on Tuesday night. 
The third-ranked Huskies (5­
0) were coming off victories over Arizona and Gonzaga to win the Maui Invitational, but they struggled for long periods against the scrappy Black Knights (2-3). 
Jarrell Brown had a career­high 26 points for Army, includ­ing four 3-pointers that helped the Black Knights stay close for much of the first half. 
Brown had four of Army's seven first-half 3s that helped put the Black Knights up by as many as six points in the period. He repeatedly found the open spot in the UConn defense, prompting coach Jim Calhoun to frequently swap defenders on him. 
The Huskies finally got their up-tempo game going with the help of Rashad Anderson, who scored 11 points in the final 
3:43 of the period. He had three 3-pointers and a steal in a 16-5 UConn run, and the Huskies closed the half with a 35-27 

UConn opened the second half with a 10-0 run and appeared to be headed for a rout, leading by as many as 18. But the Black Knights refused to fold. Brown scored eight points during an 8­minute stretch and Army cut the UConn lead to 56-46 with 
6:21 left. 
The Huskies went without a field goal during that stretch. Freshman guard Craig Austrie ended the drought, hitting con­secutive baskets with 5:01 left and Army was unable to mount much of a threat after that. 
UConn dominated the paint, outscoring Army 30-8 in the lane. The Huskies outrebounded the Black Knights 41-26 and scored 31 points off turnovers. 
Anderson finished with 16 points, and Hilton Armstrong added 10 for UConn. 
Corban Bates had 10 points for Army. 
Kentucky 75, High Point 55 
Point guard Rajon Rondo had 14 points, 10 rebounds and six assists Tuesday night to lead No. 10 Kentucky past High Point. 
Ramel Bradley scored 14 points and Patrick Sparks added 13 for Kentucky (5-l), which won its third straight game Saturday at Rupp Arena against defending national champion North Carolina. 

Arizona Reid had 29 points and 16 rebounds _ each a career high _ for High Point, a member of the Big South Conference and the alma mater of Kentucky coach Tubby Smith. It was the third time the Panthers (3-2) played Kentucky since Smith became the Wildcats' coach in 1997. 
Kentucky's average margin of victory in its previous two meet­ings with the Panthers was 36.5 points. High Point went 1-of-19 from 3-point range but kept things interesting for a half before wearing down against the Wildcats' defense. 
High Point outrebounded Kentucky 20-19 in the first half and trailed only 34-30 at half­time, but Kentucky finished with a 43-35 edge on the boards. 
Wake Forest 91, Wisconsin 88 
Justin Gray scored a career­high 37 points, including six free throws in the final 28 sec­onds, to lead No. 22 Wake Forest past Wisconsin in the ACC/Big Ten Challenge on Tuesday night. 
Kyle Visser added all of his 13 points and five assists after half­time for the Demon Deacons (6­1), who led by 10 in the second half but had to hold on for their 21st straight home win. 
Wake Forest has won 51 of 52 home games against non-con­ference opponents, and improved to 3-0 against the Badgers in the seventh annual event. 
Alando Tucker scored 23 of his 27 points in the second half for the Badgers (4-1), while Brian Butch added 19 points and 10 rebounds. 
Kammron Taylor's 3-pointer pulled Wisconsin to 89-88. Gray then made his final two free throws, and Taylor missed a long 3 at the buzzer that would have tied it. · 
Gray was unstoppable all night, hitting 11 of 20 shots and knocking down all 13 free throws in 37 minutes. The sen­ior got some big help from Visser, a 6-foot-11 junior who turned in a strong second half with Eric Williams picking up his fourth foul soon after the break. 
Meanwhile, Tucker scored only four points and sustained an apparent injury to his nose in the first half. He came out of the break wearing a protective 
lead. while prepping for a showdown 
mask, but soon took it off and showed no ill effects in leading the Badgers back in a game that came.. down to the final play . 
Texas 82, Texas Pan-American 54 
LaMarcus Aldridge scored a career-high 23 points and grabbed 11 rebounds, and No. 2 Texas shook off poor shooting in the first half to beat Texas-Pan American Tuesday night. 
. P.J. Tucker added 19 points and 11 rebounds for the Longhorns (6-0), off to their best start since winning their first 14 games in the 1981-82 season. 
Aldridge has a double-double in every game this season. Mike Williams also had 10 points and 10 rebounds. 
Johnathan Chatman and Dexter Shankle each scored 10 points to lead Texas-Pan American (2-4). 
The Longhorns have made a habit of beating up on their weaker state rivals _ they are 56-5 against Lone Star oppo­nents under coach Rick Barnes _ and the Broncs hardly figured to be much of a match for Texas. 
But Pan American made it anything but easy in the early going for the Longhorns, who shot just 37 percent in the first half, including 2-of-12 from 3­point range. Texas missed layups, threw passes into the stands and turned the ball over eight times. 


Tucker, who hit all nine of his shots against Louisiana-Monroe three days earlier, missed his first two Tuesday night and Texas trailed 11-10 before seiz­ing the lead with a defensive effort that kept Pan American scoreless for six minutes in a 10-0 run. Aldridge converted a three-point play and Connor Atchley's putback made it 20­11. 
Pan Anierican cut it to 26-21 before Aldridge and Williams helped Texas end any threat of an upset. Aldridge scored the Longhorns' final six points of the half, including a dunk, to send Texas into halftime leading 32-23. 
Texas slowly stretched the lead in the second. Williams scored eight points as the Longhorns continued to struggle shooting but built a 48-30 lead with rebounding that produced second and third shots. J.D. Lewis' 3-pointer and Aldridge's rebound and putback off Lewis' miss made it 56-36 with 9:29 left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·--­
OUND THE NATION 


Wednesday, November 30, 2005 
loam 
New England Buffalo Miami 
N.Y. Jets 
t(Htm 
Cincinnati Pittsburgh Cleveland Baltimore 
lPiUll 

Indianapolis Jacksonville Tennessee Houston 
loam 
Denver San Diego Kansas City Oakland 
loam 

Dallas 
N.Y. Giants Washington Philadelphia 
tmtm 

Chicago Minnesota Detroit Green Bay 
tnam 

Carolina Tampa Bay Atlanta New Orleans 
tnam 
Seattle St. louis Arizona San Francisco 
NFL  
AFC East  
record pen:..  I'F  PA  
6-5 .545  243  279  
4-7 .364  223  223  
4-7 .364  217  217  
2-9 .182  248  248  
AFC North  
rneord perc.  I'F  PA  
8-3 .727  289  208  
7-4 .636  243  187  
4-7 .364  169  194  
3-8 .273  145  226  
AFC South  
nH:ord perc.  PF  PA  
11-0 1.000  331  159  
8-3 .727  235  187  
3-8 .273  236  194  
1-10 .091  168  . 325  
AFC West  
rneord pnrc .  PF  PA  
9-2 .818  283  190  
7-4 .636  323  219  
7-4 .636  270  230  
4-7 .364  239  262  
NFC East  
rncord pnre .  PF  PA  
7-4 .636  243  188  
7-4 .636  302  208  
5-6 .455  217  224  
5-6 .455  229  246  
NFC North  
record perc.  PF  PA  
8-3 .727  182  120  
6-5 .545  198  257  
4-7 .364  174  220  
2-9 .182  232  223  
NFC South  
record perc.  PF  PA  
8-3 .727  266  188  
7-4 .636  216  196  
7-4 .636  271  213  
3-8 .273  180  285  
NFC West  
record pnre.  PF  PA  
9-2 .818  296  208  
5-6 .455  285  327  
3-8 .273  222  292  
2-9 .182  173  323  

Women's Volleyball Top 12 
No.  Toam  Points  
1  Nebraska  1459  
2  Penn State  1452  
3  Washington  1399  
4  Florida  1270  
5  Stanford  1252  
6  Arizona  1220  
7-lie  Hawaii  1079  
7-lie  Texas  1079  
9  louisville  1001  
10  Missouri  966  
11  NOTRE DAME  950  
12  usc  810  

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Georgia Tech at Michigan State 7:00 p.m., ESPN Minnesota at Maryland 7:30p.m., ESPN2 Duke at Indiana 9:00 p.m., ESPN 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 17 
MLB 

Billy Wagner responds to questions at Shea Stadium Tuesday after inking a four-year deal worth $43 million with the Mets. New York also has an option to keep him for a fifth year. 
Mets sign new closer Wagner 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-When he's not blowing 100 mph fast­balls by big league hitters, Billy Wagner likes to relax with his family on their quiet Virginia farm. 
So the New York Mets knew it was going to take some serious convincing to bring him to the bustling Big Apple -even though he spent the past two sea­sons in another tough city, Philadelphia. 
To lure the free-agent closer, New York offered $43 million over four years, a no-trade clause 

and some comforting words from a country boy of its own. 
Done deal. 
"It seemed like all roads kind of led to New York," Wagner said Tuesday after slipping on his new No. 13 Mets jersey at a Shea Stadium news conference. "I think it was always the Mets' ball to lose." 
Maybe one reason was James Plummer, director of corporate services for the Mets and a longtime team employee. A Mets bat boy in 1965, he still counts Hall of Fame pitcher Nolan Ryan among his good friends. 
The 54-year-old Plummer grew up near Wagner's hometown in Virginia, so he popped in to chat when the four-time All-Star was in general manager Omar Minaya's office during a two-day visit last week. 
"It was going to be 2 minutes, it turned into 30 minutes," Plummer said. "I don't know about recruit, I just try to help out." 
But Minaya thought that conversation helped do the trick, making Wagner feel more comfortable about New York. 
"Our secret weapon this year was Jimmy Plummer," the GM said. 
Wagner saved 38 games for Philadelphia last sea­son and turned down an ofTer of' just more than $30 million over three years to stay with the Phillies. 
New York's proposal included a dub option for 2010 that could raise the value to $50 million over live seasons. 
While the Mets ofl'ernd a no-trade clause, Wagner said Philadelphia was will­ing to include it for only the first two years of a contract. 
IN BRIEF 

Colts downplay importance
of undefeated season INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts would define perfection as winning a Super Bowl title. Anything more would be a bonus. 
But with live weeks left in the regu­lar season, the Colts' arduous, three­decade quest to return to the Super Bowl now carries an added burden -trying to join the 1972 Miami Dolphins as the only unbeaten teams in NFL history. 
Forget that the Colts are already 11­0, could clinch the AFC South title in the next two weeks and may soon wrap up a first-round bye and home­field advantage throughout the play­ofTs. 
The big question now around Indy ­and the NFL -is whether anyone can beat this team. 
Coach Tony Dungy wants everyone to keep things in perspective. 
"Hopefully we win the next two because that means we will wrap up the division," he said Tuesday. "If we win them, we know there will be a lot of talk about 'Can you go undefeat­ed?' But that's never really been our 
~~\~er apologizes to 
Tenneessee fans KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Tennessee football coach Phillip Fulmer's acknowledgment that the 2005 sea­son was "unacceptable" has been put in writing to the fans. 
Fulmer wrote a 300-word letter that was e-mailed Tuesday to about 38,000 season ticket holders and other fans signed up to receive peri­odic newsletters from the athletic department through its Web site. 
"This year was a disappointing season for everyone in the Tennessee family," wrote Fulmer, echoing what he's been saying on the radio and television and in speeches. "We started this season with great expectations and failed to live up to those expectations. 
"I assure you that no one is happy about our season -especially me, and I know that our fans deserve better than what wn produced this year." 
The letter was gleaned from I 0 pages of notes from a spm~ch Fulmer gave Monday to the Knoxvillt~ Quarterback Club. That speech also expressed his coneern over finishing 5-6, the first losing record and lack of a bowl bid since 1988. Solich receives probation
for drunk driving ATHENS, Ohio -Ohio coach Frank Solich will be put on probation by the university following his drunken driving conviction. 
Athletic director Kirby llocutt said at a news conference Tuesday that Solich also will publicly address his arrest and conviction and become involved in alcohol edueation initia­tives on campus. 
"I cannot crawl in a hole. I cannot take a step backward," said Solich, whose team went 4-7 in his first year after six seasons at Nebraska. "I can try to use this as an experience in my life that has happened. There's no way I can take it back." 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 30, 2005 
NFL 

Shockey blossoms in fourth season with NY 
Giants tight end and Miami product has matured since bursting onto the professional scene in 2002 

Associated Press 
EAST HUTHEHFORD, N.J.­Jeremy Shockey's career appears to be settling into its tri­umphant third act. 
In Act I. the free-spirited rook­ie from a small town in Oklahoma comes to the big city and unleashes his vast talents on the NPL, making the Pro Bowl and setting team records at his position. 
Act II is the inevitable fall from grace as the team stumble~ and the hero's brashness begins to look more like self-aggrandize­ment. Several ill-timed -some would say vulgar and inflamma­tory -public comments only fan the flames. 
Now comes Act III, in which the chastened hero minds his manners, is rededicated to his craft, and again becomes a star and even a team leader of sorts. 
With five regular-season games remaining, the New York Giants tight end already has seven touchdown catches, one more -than his career best. His 713 yards are second among NFL tight ends behind San Diego's Antonio Gates (823), and his 14.9-yard average is the best in the league among tight ends with more than 18 receptions. 
Not coincidentally, the Giants, are 7-4 and tied for the first place in the NFC East with Dallas as they prepare for Sunday's showdown with Dallas at Giants Stadium. 
"This game's hard, especially being in New York on the No. 1 stage in America," Shockey says. 
"People are going to criticize you no matter what; even if you get a win and you barely beat a team they're going to still point out the negatives. People in this locker room understand that's the baggage that comes with being a part of the New York Giants. 

"But the good thing is when you start doing good, people probably give you a little more praise than in other cities." 
Worshipped as .a rookie in 2002 when his 7 4 receptions set team marks for rookies and tight ends, Shockey has had a some­times uneasy relationship with Giants fans, though the team's 10-22 record in 2003 and 2004 undoubtedly fueled their discon­tent. 
"All! can really control is what I do on the field, how I play on Sundays and how. I work during the week," Shockey said a day after his 10-catch, 127-yard, one-touchdown performance in last Sunday's overtime loss to the Seahawks. "I can't really control what people think of me. They praise me now, but I guar­antee if I start not doing well, they're going to start bashing me." 
That may be a harsh assess­ment considering that, from almost any perspective in the Giants Stadium parking lot, Shockey's No. 80 reigns supreme before home games, ahead of Eli Manning's No. 10, Tiki Barber's No. 21 and Michael Strahan's No. 92. 
And the jerseys won't become obsolete -Shockey signed a five-year, $31.2 million contract extension in October. 
Shockey's increased numbers this season are the product of several factors. 
They include better health ­he has been plagued by nagging foot injuries. 
They also include Manning's growth as an NFL quarterback and the addition of wide receiver Plaxico Burress, signed as a free agent in the offseason. Burress leads the team with 60 recep­tions for 928 yards, and has opened up room in the second­ary for Shockey. 
"I think they are very much helping each other in the atten­tion that teams have given them," said Giants tight ends coach Mike Pope. "Both of them are pretty tall and good jumpers, so teams have to think about putting those 5-9 guys out there to cover them." 
He won't come out and say he has learned from his public mis­takes -such as throwing a cup of ice into the stands in San Francisco that inadvertently hit two children or calling Cowboys coach Bill Parcells a derogatory name in a magazine article. 
But it's clear the new Shockey has adopted an all-business, all­the-time attitude when it comes to football and is a respected part of the team. He and Barber were the two players invited to the deathbed of Wellington Mara, the team's owner and the NFL's patriarch, on the day before he died -and he was one of the straight-laced Mara's favorite players. _ 
The old Shockey occasionally resurfaces, too, as it did near the end of the Seattle game. He mugged for the sideline cameras as Jay Feely's attempt at a game-winning field goal appeared to be sailing through the uprights, only to look on in disbelief when the kick missed. 

GREAT LIFESTYLE 
Turtle Creek Aartments 

Adjacent to Campus! 
Remodeled Apartments Available www.campuscribs.net 
1.866.395.4201 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 


CLOSESTTO CAMPUS 
AP 
New York Giants tight end Jeremy Shockey runs off the field after the Giants' overtime loss to the Seattle Seahawks Sunday. 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat is perfect 
for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own 

or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. Denali Jacket 
3602 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, Indiana 
259·1000 
~ 
au,..._a.,. 
Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 10:00 am-9:00pm
s or s 
Sat.: 1o:oo am -S:oo pm Cold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oo pm 

• 
. 
• 
Entries accepted Wednesday, Nov 30th 
• 1st place: SlOO 2nd place:$75 3rd place: $50 Merit Award: $25 

Open to all students -AU media accepted Entries must be matted or framed 
• 
ln!crestcd? Contact Cassie Belel;: <chclek@nd.edu> 
• 


Wednesday, November 30, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Slow start dooms Belles in loss to Carthage 
Lady Reds jump out to 24-2lead as Saint Mary's shoots 8.5 percentfrom thefield in first half-Belles lose third ofseason 
By FRAN TOLAN Spons Wriler 
Stove Bonder didn't want to start this way. 
Tho f'irst-year Belles eoaeh saw Saint Mary's fall to 1-3 on the SIHtson Saturday. 
Saint Mary's team lost fd­45 to Carthagn in a gamn in whieh tlw Bnllns nnvor got on track. 
In tlwir first horne game of tlw young snason, the Belles eanw out st.rugglinf{, hitting just 4-ol'-24 l'ield goal attnmpts in tho first half. Thny fell behind 24-2 and wnre nnvor abln to recover. 
"There's no way we had a chance after such a poor start," Bl1nder said. · Carthage (1-1), meanwhile, knocked down 12-of-18 shots in thn first 20 minutes to take a eornmanding 30-17 lead at the half. 
Saint Mary's battled baek in the seeond hall', cutting the lead to 34-28 with 16:11 remaining. 
But Carthage's strong shooting was too much for them to handle. 
. The Lady Heds went on a 25-5 run to ice the game after Saint Mary's eut the Carthage lead to six. Carthage made 53 pereent of' 
its shots on the night, and the points for the Lady Heds. Belles, who dropped their Bender said his team took seeond straight game, shot at least one positive away 
·just 26 percent. from the Carthage loss. \He Carthage said several 

sophomore Jenny Wuest led all scor­ "! realized we have a lot of depth that we  underelassmen played well and saw more  
ers with 21 points to go along with  were not necessarily expecting this soon.,  playing time Saturday and that he  
her  six  believes  the  
rebounds.  Steve Bender  freshmen and  
Wuest domi­ Belles head coach  sophomores  
nated  the  showed poten- 
Saint Mary's  tial  to  eon­ 

defense all game, missing tribute significantly this sea­just two of her 11 shots. son. Freshman guard Shana "I realized we have a lot of Lieberman also chipped in 17 depth that we were not nee­
essarily expecting this soon," Bender said. 
Sophomore guard Alison Kessler was the only Saint Mary's playnr to roach double digits, scoring 15 points. Junior Bridget Lipkn added eight points and three assists in the losing effort. 
Guard Bridget Boyen seored five points and Erin Newsome, Emily Light, Kalin Rashid each chipped in four points. 
The Belles will n~Jxt be in action against llope today at the Angela Athlntie Center. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

'' 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Blue Devils and Hoosiers to square off in Bloo111ington 
Indiana students anticipate first ever Duke visit to Assembly Hall as part of Big Ten-ACC Challenge 
Assndatcd Press INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's Marshall Strickland ean alrnady envision Assembly I I all on Wmlnesday night. lin expects the wild, Jato, night erowd to taunt Duke's top players, .I ..1. Hediek and Slwlden Williams. lie expects thn sold-out crowd to remind 

flvrosmith 
Ltnny KrCJvitz 
Satordqy Jmvmbvr 17, 1005 VGn flndvl flrvnq • Grond Roplds 

On solq tloVll!llbllr 5th ot 10:00 om ot Morris Box Offl~•. ~horgll by phon• 574f23!J-9'190 or morrlscllnlvr.org 
.. ~?!l:!!J!l
·... 

freshman Josh McHoberts he made a mistake by choosing the Blue Devils over his home­state Hoosiers, and he hopes the Indiana students swarm the court in a postgame cele­bration. 
Welcome back to college bas­ketball, Indiana style. 
"When Assembly Hall gets rocking, this is a special place," Strickland said. "''m excited just thinking about it." 
So far, the 17th-ranked Hoosiers (3-0) have brought a renewed level of excitement to their program after two con­secutive subpar seasons. 
They overwhelmed Nicholls State, Florida A&M and Western Illinois with a strong inside-outside combination and have scored more points in eaeh game. They're averaging 
100.3 points and have not resembled the previous under­achieving teams, thanks in part to the addition of forward Mareo Killingsworth and solid 3-point shooting. 
But if Indiana intends to re­establish itself as a national power this season, it must start with a strong showing in one of the ACC/Big Ten Challenge's marquee matchups. 
"We have things that we 
Offering 
sffordsb.le 
flying lessons ffom South Band Reglonol Alrp4>rt 
want to work on and make sure that we execute the things we need to do to win the game," Killingsworth said. 
What makes this game spe­cial? Everything. 
Duke (5-0) will become the first nonconference team to ever visit Assembly Hall with the No.. 1 ranking. It has a ros­ter filled with McDonal~'s All­Americans, a stronger and more experienced inside-out­side combination than the Hoosiers and a perfect 6-0 mark in a showcase event that has been dominated by the ACC in each of the previous six years. 
Strangely, though, the Blue Devils have never played in Bloomington. 
The last meeting between the schools came in the 2002 regional semifinals when the Hoosiers rallied for a stunning 74-73 upset of then No. 1 Duke, a victory that sent coach Mike Davis sprinting onto the . court and catapulted Indiana into the Final Four. 
"We know they're going to come out and get after us," freshman guard Greg Paulus said. "The crowd is going to get into it and playing uphill is never good on the road." 
The bigger question may be what the Blue Devils, and par­ticularly McHoberts, a native of Carmel, Ind., receive. 
A year ago, the Hoosiers had a similar matehup against then No. 9 North Carolina in Bloomington native Sean May's homecoming. Indiana respond­ed with one of its best games of the season, a 70-63 loss, and the hostile crowd rattled May. Fans chanted "Traitor" and wore shirts that spelled out "May you must be adopted." 

When Hurricane Stan devastated~-­-'\:::::) the Guatemalan village where we work, we pledged at least $2000 ; I ' toward the relief effort. PleaseLoads of Silver & Beaded Jewelry, Tapestry come visit. and maybe even helpWall Hangings, Hand Crafted Gift Items. Accessories, and Much, Much More!! us surpass our goal! DIRECT IMPORTSILOW PRICESI UNIQUE CHRISTMAS Glml Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Mexico • Thailand·· India LaFortune-Sorin Room {1" Fl.) Proceeds from sales of jewelry guarantee the loving Nov. 28-Dec 3 (Sat.) 11-5pm hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average salary, as well as funds for their education. & M-T-W Evenings 7:30-10pm  



Those memories have already prompted McRoberts to ask his parents to stay home. 
"I don't think I'm going to be the favorite person," he said. "I always followed Indiana bas­ketball, but I always wanted to go to Duke." 
Other battles may prove more critical. 
Inside, Killingsworth and Williams could turn the game into a wrestling mateh. Williams, at 6-foot-9, 250 pounds, is considered one of the nation's strongest and most talented players. Killingsworth, at 6-8, 268, wants to prove he can match up with Williams and has also demonstrated the ability to pass and hit 3-point­ers. 
But the key could be the perimeter. 
Hedick, a 6-4 guard, aver­ages 22.4 points and is one of the nation's top shooters for 3­pointers and free throws. He'll likely be defended by Lewis Monroe, who, like Killingsworth, transferred to Indiana from Auburn. The Hoosiers could also use speedy Earl Calloway or versatile (J-5 swingman Hobert Vaden on Hedick. 
Meanwhile, Indiana has con­nected on 16 3s in each of its last two games and might got a boost if sophomore guard A . .J. Hatlif'f returns from a broknn thumb. Hatliff has not yef played this season and was expeeted to start. 
Both teams will he missing key players. Tho Blue Devils lost starting guard DeMarcus Nelson for six to eight weeks after he had surgery on a frac­tured right an kIn. w hil1~ Indiana is still without ILl. White, who broko his left foot in the lloosiers' first nxhibition game. White was last year's Big Ten freshman of the year. 
Whatever happens, Strickland and his teamrnatos figure this is what big-time col­lege basketball is all about. 
"We want to make them play our game," Strickland said. "If we start lotting them set tho tempo of the game, we could have some troubles. We have to make them run with us, and I think we will have some suc­cess." 

Bender also predicts solid con­of some of these underclass­way with us," Bender said. North Park University Friday . tributions from freshmen Erin men and the steady guard The game, which is the They return to league play
Hope 

Newsom, Nicole Beier, Calli play of Boyce and Kessler, Belles' first against a league next Wednesday and Saturday continued from page 24 Davison and Emily Light, who Bender believes his group will opponent, will be played at the games against Adrian and 
all logged at least ten minutes show it can compete with the Angela Athletic Facility at Alma, respectively. lead Saint Mary's in scoring, of playing time against top teams in the league. Saint Mary's on Wednesday at averaging 14.8 and 11.0 Carthage. "We can't back down against 7:30p.m. Contact Fran Tolan at points per game, respectively. With the added contributions [Hope], or they'll have their After Hope, the Belles face ftolan@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 30, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

At left, Tulyah Gaines applies the full-court press against lona's Lauren Defalco. Gaines had five points and a steal In 18 minutes of action Wednesday. Lindsay Schrader, right, takes a jump shot over Anna Mclean (50) and Martina Weber (24). Schrader had 14 points on 6-of-9 shooting In the contest. 
without your head coach," ty stripe. Washington said she extremely nervous when Notes Washington said. "I think in does not think the problem will informed she would have to fill + Before the game Tuesday
Gaels 
the first half, we were all a lit­continue. in for McGraw. But the associ­night, Duffy was presented continued from page 24 tle nervous. We didn't really "It's not really a concern of ate head coach eventually was with a plaque commemorating 
find out until just before the ours," Washington said of the calmed, she said, by her confi­her accomplishments with the tiHtlll 's sm:ond leading scorer game that coach McGraw was­team's free throw shooting. dence in the players. USA World University Games bd1ind Duffy. n't going to be there. I think it "We're pretty good in practice, "When you have players like Team. Duffy. elected a eaptain 
Duffy lnd the Irish charge to took us the first half to kind of so sometimes it's just when the Megan Duffy, it's easy to be of the team before the tourna­pull away from the Gaels early get used to the way it was lights go on a little nerves. And relaxed and confident because ment, led the United States to in thn second half. Irma scored going to be tonight." that's just something that I I know no matter what, they an undefeated record and a thn first four points or the half McGraw has stressed all sea­think, as the season goes on, are going to give us the best gold medal victory in lzmir, to cut Uw Notrn Damn lead to son the need to improve team we'll get used to that and we'll effort that they have," Turkey. She started all seven 3(,-32, but Notrn Dame rebounding. The Irish edged knock them down. Washington said. games at point guard, averag­n~sponded with the Gaels 42-35 ''I'm totally confident in our No update on McGraw's con­ing 6.1 points per game. a 16-4 run on the boards, players. They can go to the line dition or timetable for return k•·y•HI by prns­but D'Amico and make free throws." was available following the Contact Kevin Brennan at surn dnfens•~ "We didn't really find said the margin Washington said she was game. kbrenna4@nd.edu and Duffy's out­should have
out untiljust before 
side shooting. even
the game that coach been 
With 14:34 lnft greatnr. in thn gamP, McGraw wasn't going "Hebounding l>u ffy COIIIHH:tnd has been an
to be there. !think it 
on hnr sncond issun all year,"
took us the first halfto
straight t h n~ e­the eenter said. point shot to kind ofget used to the "It's something strntch Notrn way it was going to be we work on in 
I> a 1111~ 's ad van­practice a lot. I
tonight."

tagn to 52-:H, think sometimes and put the [when! we box gamn out or Coquese Washington out, we just n•arh. Irish associate head coach don't go after it. 
In thn first And that's some­half. Notre thing we really Dame rnlind on have to improve tlw insidn play of eenter on, especially against the bet­M•~lissa D'Amico and forward ter teams." Courtnny LaVnrrl. Tlw pair lona point guard Toni nach rncorcled night points in Horvath had a productive out­tlw first half. D'Amico pulled ing, leading the Gaels in scor­down eight n~ bounds in the ing with 14 points and con­gamn, while LaVern added l'ive. necting on 4-of-6 three-point 
But despite thn strong intnri­attempts. lona's 6-!'oot-5 for­or play early on, lona hung ward Martina Weber pitched in with tho more talented Irish in with 11 points and nine tlw first hall'. Washington rebounds. attrihutnd hnr tnam's first half Thn Irish struggled with free strugglns to McGraw's ahsenee. throws Tuesday night, shooting Breona Gray, left, forces lona guard Toni Horvath to the baseline during Notre Dame's win over 
"I I.'s tough wlw n you play just (,2 percent from the chari-the Gaels. Gray finished the game with two steals In 23 minutes. 


Seed 
continued from page 24 
Texas, whieh will take plaee Dec. 9 and 10. The Final Four will be the following wnek in the Alamodome in San Antonio. 
Notre Dame's strength of schedule may have benn a .key factor in the team's high seed­ing. Eight of its rngular-season opponents made the NCAA field. Those include Louisville, Tnxas, Tnnnnssne, LSU, Loyola-Chicago, Valparaiso, Florida and Southern California. 
compiled a 7-2 record against their top opponents. 
The Irish wern down af'ter their loss to Tennessee Saturday, but they've gotten over it. 
"I think it !the high seed! really lif'tnd our spirits," Brown said. "We were all pretty down about it !the Tennessen loss!. and to kind of' be able to lpok ahead Iwas good I. Obviously wn'll havn to look back at !the loss] and learn from it and not pretend that it didn't happen -beeause it did." 
The saying goes, "You win as a team, you lose as a team." But against Tennessee, the Irish did­n't lose as a team, Brown said. 
tribute. 
"Wn just had two or three playnrs that didn't have a good match for us," she said. "And this time of ynar, we need to have everybody. That's why we've won the tough matdws in the past. like the Big East cham­pionship because it was a just a great, solid team ef'f'ort. Ev•~rybody contributed really well." 
With a solid week of pradiee and extra energy hec:ause of their unexpected high seed, tlw Irish will be baek in action Thursday, ready to make a run -as a team. 

Lauren Brewster, left, watches as Adrlanna Stasluk sets a ball Playing Louisville twice and This time of year, she said, Contact Tom Dorwart at during Notre Dame's victory over Louisville on Nov. 20. the other eight once, the Irish they need everybody to con-tdorwart@nd.edu 
Wednesday, November 30, 2005

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
backup quarterback T.C. Abiamiri finished with a snaps Saturday. The junior Saturday. Ostrander, ending any chance team-leading 10 tackles, responded with arguably the "We were able to get good
Sacks 
continued from page 24 
relief that the game was over," Abiamiri said Notte Dame's 38-31 win Saturday. "Glad to come out of here with a victo­ry." 
He had just sacked Stanford of a Cardinal comeback with his fourth sack of the day. 

"We were in a three-man rush and Brian Beidatsch was in getting three guys on him, and I was free on the outside one-on-one," Abiamiri said. "And you just have to take advantage of the one-on-one matchup, and I did that." 
incl.uding six solo tackles, play­ing most of the game because Ronald Talley sat out with an injury. 
The defensive end position was already thin after Chris Frome was injured for the sea­son against USC, and so with backup Justin Brown starting, Abiamiri saw most of the best game of his Notre Dam.e pressure up the middle all career. day," the defensive lineman 

Abiamiri was around said. "We stayed true to our Stanford quarterbacks Trent gaps and didn't let Ithe quar­Edwards and Ostrander the terback] run around, and our 
entire game and  ·  ends  just  got  
was  one  of the  upfield, did what  
reasons Edwards had to leave with an injury.  "We were in a three­man rush and Brian  they're supposed to do and made plays, and that's  
He credited the  Beidatsch was in  all you could hope  
interior line with helping him make plays on  getting three guys on him, and I was  for." As a result, Abiamiri had by  
the  outside.  free on the outside  far the best statis­ 
Beidatsch, Derek Landri and Trevor Laws  one-on-one. And you just have to take  tical game of his career. As a fresh­man, he registered  
fought off double  advantage ofthe  22 tackles and one  
teams all game,  one-on-one  sack in 12 games,  
leaving Abiamiri isolated on the outside, and he  matchup, and I did that.,,  starting five. Last season, rotating with NFL draft  
was able to capi­ pick Justin Tuck  
talize on the opportunity. "I think I tried  Victor Ablamiri Irish defensive end  and senior Kyle Budinscak, he played in all 12  
to  take  advan­ games, registering  
tage of one-on­ 15 tackles and two  

one matchups," Abiamiri said. sacks. And after Saturday's "A lot of times, my teammates game, he had doubled his sack were getting double-teamed -total on the year to eight, and my hat's off to my teammates his numbers this year have for hanging in there and nearly tripled his career stats. throwing punches back and "He played real solid," forth. Them getting double­Landri said. "He stuck true to teamed freed me up on the his keys, [and] he played solid. outside to get one-on-one We got push up the middle, the blocking. And you have to win quarterback would flush out the one-on-one battles to be and Vic was right there, and successful, and we did that he made a play when we need­[Saturday]." ed it." 
Landri also said he was pleased with the pressure the Contact Heather Van Hoegarden Irish got up the middle on at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


A01ado 
continued from page 24 
tive ranking. 
Irish head coach Jeff Jackson has worked with Amado to fme­tune certain aspects of his game in the hope that Amado will reach the 20-goal plateau for the season and average one point a game. 
''I'm kind of on pace to do both," Amado said. "I started off a little slow the first couple games, so I think if things keep on going the way they will, I'll reach those goals. Thenhopeful­ly I can do something after this year with hockey, either in Europe or North America." 
The 5-foot-11, 197lb.left­winger is undrafted but has seri­ous aspirations to reach the pro level. When the time comes to take that next step, he feels his time spent under Jackson will pay off in his play. 
At the same time, it hasn't been easy for Amado to adjust to a new coach with a new style in his last year with the Irish. 
"It's a tough transition," he said. "We go from a coach [Dave Poulin] who was a lot more laid back and supposedly more of a pro-style coach where you can do your own thing. Coach Jackson is a lot more into disci­pline and accountability and overall work ethic, big-time sac­rifice." 
Despite the big changes, one thing remains the same -his wingman. Amado has been paired with right wing Tim Wallace for most of this season, and the duo has been explosive. Wallace currently leads the team in points with 11 (five goals, six assists). 
Amado describes Wallace as the bigger, more physical guy that's not afraid to get dirty, while he is more adept at finish­ing with a solid shot and setting up teammates. 
"Me and Timmy" have played together all the time pretty much from day one," he said. "Being back with him, it's good. We get along off the ice, [and] we hang out a lot. We're not really total opposites, but were different enough that we help each other out .~nd bring something differ­ent. 
Wallace and Amado have seen two centers shore up the middle of their line, first Mark Van Guilder and now junior captain 
T.J. Jindra. But no matter who lines up to take the faceoff between the two, Amado has one goal f~r the team in sight -the NCAA tournament. 
"Ultimately, your goal is to always win an NCAA champi­onship, but that might not always be totally feasible," Amado said. "Our goal is to get to the tourna­ment and see what we can do from there." 

That may seem like a tall order in the midst of Notre Dame's cur­rent four-game winless skid, including two losses to Ohio State and a loss and a tie to Miami University on back-to-hack week­ends, but Amado knows what it takes to make the national stage. 
In his sophomore season, Amado was an integral part of the 2003 Notre Dame NCAA Tournament berth that resulted in a loss to Minnesota in the first round, and he recalls vividly the excitement of playing in big rinks with big crowds. 
"[It was] just a totally different atmosphere," he said. "Thee fans were awesome." 
To get to the tournament this year, Notre Dame has a long road ahead, but the early season woes against nationally ranked teams will give way to a much lighter schedule, beginning this weekend against Western Michigan. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

Round J -Thursday, December J 
Match 1 -5:00pm -Texas A&M vs. l\lorthwestern 
Match i! -7:00pm -Dayton vs. # 6 l\lotre Dame 
Round i! -Friday, December i! Match 3 -7:00pm -6ame 1 Winner vs. 6ame i! Winner 
First 100 'fans on both days will receive a 'free i!Ooz Coke Zero and a !ilice o'f Papa .John"!i pizza compliment!i o'f Coca-Cola 
Free Admi!i!iion 'for fir!it 100 1\10, !iMt:, and Ht:t: !itudent!i 
Wednesday, November 30, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY 
JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 

CROSSIANTWORLD 
NNA C:ro lo \\-\1\\ BOO ~""O~E.. (14~\S\MAC:. S~LE.? 
CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
HI, WEL.COME TO 11\E A~NUAL 50% lr-......O::~~t:"' 
OH· Fo\2... STUI:l£1'-\TS i:.OOKSTORE SALE. 
LE.\ M£.. ~\N<.:t -m~t.\ uP Fo~ ~ol..\. 
58 Kind of sch. 59 Pool path 60 Breakwater 61 as a blue 
rose 62 My1hology anthology 
DOWN 1 Quai (French foreign office locale) 2 Magic 8 Ball, e.g. 3 Many Sri 
Lankans 4 Mix-ups 5 Degree 
recipient 6 Sectors 7 Coastal 
predator 8 Romantic notes 9 Raft material 
10 Marine greeting 11 Door sign 12 Snare 13 Tags 21 "Hurray for me!" 22 Marksman's skill 
25 Bibliophile's citation, for short 26 At the drop of 
27 Bottom line 29 Precious 
mettle? 32 Pistol, in slang 33 Early zoology 
topic 
COMEON. FUNN'\­1-\E'\~ COME. Sl\(_~ I 1-\t::~E e.R~\'5'. \HA\S 
it> z..-:r. qs. 

WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 1 Pixels 5 Jaguars, e.g. 9 1942 movie with 
the song "Love Is a Song" 14 Setting for "The Plague" 15 Popular cookie 16 Each 
17 Slayer of Ravana in Hindu myth 
18 ball 19 Aches 20 "Star Trek" 
genre 23 Refers (to) 24 Herald reader 28 Private line? 29 Bottom line 30 "But, _ was 
ambitious, I slew him": Brutus 
31 Literary oceans 33 Swinger's opportunity 34 Turntable, 
speakers, etc. 38 Lightly maul 39 "I've had 
enough!" 40 Slang expert Partridge 41 Hoosier cabinet 
wood 42 Lie alongside of 47 All-purpose 49 One way to win 50 Places to get 
online without plugging in 
52 Finger_ 
55 Tribe associated with the Seven Cities of Cibola 
56 'That'll be the day!" 
57 Zippy 


34 One leading a chase 35 Victor's cry 36 Turn toward sunset 37 Break for · games 38 Dowel 41 Ox 

43 Get up after a multiplayer football tackle 
44 "Aww" 

45 Largest city on Belgium's coast 
46 Coca-Cola product 
48 Unsafe 49 Faux pas 51 Hip activity? 52 Presidential 
in its. 53 Make, altogether 54 Box with a manual 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800~814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
page 23 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TAABE 

[] 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ANBOT 
j 
1
tBEHREY ri 
IIJ 
www.jumble.com
tFLEMSY J I I [ J 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


• 
WHAT THE: MATHE:­MATICIAN FACE:D WHEN HE: 5TAYED OUT LATE:. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 
THE rI I I I ] -rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: CRANK SNACK MEASLY PIRATE Yesterday's Answer: When Mom heard Junior's excuse, she said that-TAKES THE CAKE 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Cathy Moriarty, 45; Andrew McCarthy. 43; Jonathan Knight, 37; Kim Delaney, 44 
Happy Birthday: Change has become routine in your lite and you have karncd to take advantage of it. Now it is time to try your hand at something you've always wanted to do. Financial gains look positive, hut you need to revise your spending habits. Your numbers are 13, 17, 22, 30, 41,45 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Whatever isn't paying you back or working for you mu.st be stopped. You've been working too long and too hard. Your generosity has become a hindrance, so get back to doing what counts. •• • TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Bend over backward f(Jr an older tiiend or relative. Now isn't the best time to take on another responsibility but, by doing so, you will please someone who will make a difference in your future. ••• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Try to settle down a little and focus on one thing. Multitasking is fine, but not today. Put your thoughts on paper. You can gel your point across ifyou are precise. •• • CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may have some minor disputes with older or younger people. Today is about love, getting along and doing things that will bring you closer to someone you truly care about. • • • • • LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let little things depress you. Everything is OK. even ifyou can't see the light at the end of the tunnel. Ignore the negative and you will see some good possibilities to work toward. • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You're in dreamland, so shake yourself before it's too late. Someone may try to take advantage ofyou when he or she doesn't think you'll notice. Keep a sharp eye while taking part in fun activities. •• •• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make your professional position more interesting. A new way of doing things or a chance to try something ditTerenl will bring you greater recognition. Include friends and family in your ideas. • •• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Things are either moving way too fast or way too slow. Get used to it. Today will be a_!epeat of the past and an indicator of the future. Base your actions on your past experience. • •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov: 22-Dec. 21): Do something that will help your self­esteem. Spending time with someone you respect will change your attitude and give you some great ideas about things you should pursue. •• • CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let someone take advantage of you because of your interest in him or her. Ifyou can keep things even, you stand a better chance of gaining respect and getting what you want. • ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take your time and do things by the book or you may face ridicule for what you didn't do. Sudden changes will atTcct your future. Don't be discouraged --you need more time. •• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be hard to resist no matter what you do. Everyone will be looking to you for answers. Don't let it go to your head. One slip up and you may get caught in the middle. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are in control. It is your own uncertainties that will hold you back. You are respected, looked up to and called upon to solve problems. You can do anything you set your mind to. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultatiom 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, November 30, 2005 
page 24 
• NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Washington coached Irish Tuesday against lana zn McGraw's absence 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame was forced to take on the Iona Gaels without its leader at the Joyce Center Monday night. 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw had to stay at home because of an ill­ness, but associate head coach 

~ -· 
Coquese Washington guided Notre Dame to a 74-55 win over the Gaels. 
Senior point guard Megan Duffy led the Irish with 21 points and out three assists. The Irish captain did not commit a single turnover in the game. 
Freshman guard Lindsay Schrader continued to light up the scoreboard early in her Irish career, adding 14 points in 22 minutes. Schrader, who averages 10 points per game, is the 
see GAELS/page 21 
N D VOLLEYBALL 

Gaelstrom 

Irish happily surprised vvith No. 6 seed 
Team enters NCAA tournament with its highest-ever ranking 
By TOM DORWART Spons Writer 
High expectations are noth­ing new for Notre Dame. 
The No. 7 Irish have been 
ranked in the top-10 for most 
of the season. They went on a 15-match winning streak for most of September and October. They won both the Big East regular season and tournament titles for the ninth and 1Oth times, respectively, in the past 11 years. 

But the most important news they received so far this sea­son -their most exciting achievement was announced Sunday afternoon. 
The Irish (28-3) nabbed the No. 6 national seed for the NCAA tournament-Notre Dame's highest-ever NCAA seed -despite dropping their fmal match of the regular sea­son to Tennessee (21-8). The Irish will host the first two rounds of the 64-team tourna­ment, beginning Thursday at the Joyce Center. Notre Dame's early-round bracket includes 
Dayton,  Texas  A&M  and  
Northwestern.  
"I  was  surprised,  I  was  

thinking we'd get maybe about a 10 or 12 [seed]," Irish coach 
take it." 
The national seed was the fifth top-16 seed in program­history for the Irish and sec­ond in the past four seasons. 
This is the seventh time the Joyce Center has hosted the early rounds. Notre Dame is 6­2 all-time at home in the NCAA tournament. 
The winner of Friday's sec­ond round will advance to the round of 16 in College Station, 
Debbie Brown said. "But we'll see SEED/page 21 
fOOTBALL 

Abiatniri gets it done out West 
Notre Dame's junior defensive end had his best game Saturday 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame defensive end Victor Abiamiri walked.off the field drained. His jersey was no longer white, and his face was drenched with sweat as he carried his helmet. 
"Huuuuuge, many sighs of 
see SACKS/page 22 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Bender sees a nevv Hope in big gaine 
By FRAN TOLAN Spom Writer 
When Saint Mary's hosts Hope College tonight in its first confer­ence game, Belles coach Steve Bender knows his team cannot afford a repeat ef its previous out­ing. 
"We absolutely 
See Also
have to come-out· playing hard this "Saint Mary's time," Bender 
falls to 
said. 
Carthage"
That's because Saint Mary's fell page 19 behind 24-2 to Carthage Saturday, in a start Bender called "pathetic." The Belles never regrouped, and Carthage sailed to a 63-45 victory. . 
Hope, the defending MIAA cham­pion, is undefeated at 2-0 as it enters Angela Athletic Facility for a 7:30p.m. tip-off. 
Bender said in addition to start­ing well, his team must shoot bet­ter to have any chance at winning. On Saturday, Saint Mary's shot 17 percent in the first half. 
Bender, who is now 1-3 in his first year as Saint Mary's head coach, called the young se&son a "roller coaster" for the Belles. He said, in spite of the rough start, the team needs to "keep going for­ward." 
And despite the poor record, he said the team has been improving in practice and must translate that progress into game situations beginning tonight. 
Bridget Boyce and Alison Kessler 
see HOPE/page 20 
HOCKEY 
Amado Inakes a Inark for squad as a senior 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Matt Amado has been one of Notre Dame's top scoring threats throughout his career, but only this season has the senior for­ward truly become a force to be reckoned with on the ice. 
Amado has already scored seven goals in 12 games this sea­son, compared to five goals in 31 games during the 2004-05 cam­paign. He notched two of his tal­lies last weekend against Ohio State, scoring a go_al in each of the back-to-hack home games. 
"Maybe in the past I haven't performed as well as I should have, and now I am," Amado said of his recent touch. "So it's all coming together. It's nice to see." 
Although Amado is fourth in points for Notre Dame with nine, he is tied for the lead in goals with Josh Sciba and boasts a +2 plus/minus rating -one of only seven Irish players with a posi­
see AMADO/page 22 

en 
SMC Basketball 
NCAA Basketball 
NFL 
NCAA Basketball

NCAA BasketbaU 
NCAA Basketball 
w 

Duke at Indiana 
Kentucky 75 
Wake Forest 91 
Connecticut 68
~ Carth;te 63 

Giants tight end
Wednesday, 9 p.m.
1-z Saint ary's 45 
High Point 55 
Wisconsin 88 
Army 54 

Jeremy Shockey comes
a: ~ 

of age in his fourth pro-
A slow start doomed 

The Blue Devils invade 
The No. 10 Wildcats
== 
Justin Gray scored 37 
Connecticut overcame 

fessional season.
the Belles to their third 

Assembly Hall for the 
extended their winning 
points to lead the 
a slow start to beat the 
loss of the season. 

first time ever tonight. 
streak to three Tuesday. 
Deacons past the Badgers. 
Black Knights. 

1:1.!;
en 
page 19 
page 19 

page 18 
page 16 
page 16 
page 16 










