
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 85 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2005 

Specialized Web site offers ne-w opportunities 

Courtesy of Jim Cope A new Web page lets students and faculty access e-mail, grades, national newspapers and campus headlines, among other options. 
Professors strive to balance views 
Inclusion of personal beliefs provokes debate, creates tension in Notre Dame classrooms 
By MICHAEL BUSK News Writer 
h'ditor's Note: This is the fir.'>l in a three-part series e.tploriny the role of partisan politics in classes at. Notre 
/Jam e.  
On  tlw  first  day  ol'  his  
Amnrican  J!ornign  Policy  
class,  profnssor  l>aninl  

l.indlny lwgan his lncturn by tnlling his studPnts lw was going to spnll out tlw truth to tlu~m. tlwn outlirwd a num­hPr of hard-lirw, MachiavPIIian pol.ieins as unquPstionably rorrnet. Al't.nrward. lw asknd for tlwir rPsponsPs, hut thn studnnts, afraid of contradicting tlwir profnssor on tho lirst day of a largn lnrturn dass, rnmainnd quid. 
LindiPy thPn brought up thn l'irst slid~> on thn l>nBartolo projnrtor -a hugo sign with tiH~ phrasn "THUST Ml~" rirclnd in red and rrossod out. 
''l'vn stari.Pd in a varinty of ways," Lindl11y said. "I some-

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND alun1 donates $40 nilllion 
By EILEEN DUFFY A1sistant News Editor 
Notre Damn will soon add some nine trillion pnnnins -or $40 million -to its pig~-,ry bank, thanks to a gnnerous donation from John "Jay" Jordan II. Jordan is a 
~-~ ,..------, 1969 alumnus and member of the Univer­sity's Board of Trustees. lie made his sur­prisn ann­
_ouncement 
Friday at the T r u s t e o s · Jordan 
annual winter 
meeting. 
The Chicago-arna business­man's gift is the second-largest ever rneeived by the Univnrsity, with the largest ($50 million) coming from Joan Kroe in 200:~. It also nstablishes .Jordan as thn most generous bnnnfaetor in Notre Dame's history, surpassing Kroc's lifetime donation total of $69.1 million. 
While the purpose of this gift is as yet undnsignatnd, Jordan's past contributions to the University have made thoir pres­ence known on campus. For example, he is the principal bonnfaetor for tho $70 million .Jordan flail of Sd!mce, currnntly undnr construction on .I unipm Hoad just north of tlw .Joyc.n Centnr. IIn was also a principal bennfaetor l'or tlw Mnndoza College of Business-tho audito­rium in that building is named in his honor. 
Fathnr .John .lnnkins, who will bncomn University pr11sidnnt. in July, callnd .Jordan's d11vol.ion to Notre Damn "unsell'ish" and "remarkable." 
"The commitment and insight. that hfl brings to our board of trustees is a source or inspiration to all of' us at. thn Univnrsity," .l1mkins said in a prnss mleasn. "lie can take groat comfort in 
see JORDAN/page 4 

'l;J,,;,m:<~; .tt."S~QEl"-HY' ~ " 
,....... ,,..;liM (Jl•-.... ta..f 'I<Wioll 
~llll)l>(r• 
,....,,uli'l'liCII< JR ~1/iW,/tM
~ 
li,; .HII\IAHU. ~.._.. 
.. l.,.rHon. 

Ulil_<:oo,.. ............. ...,; G/IOHM 
--· 
,_ ,..,.n<IIIM~Ji:. ...... lk Blf(!\fCI"I 
NO N.w.wlre 

"...........,,...._. ................. _.... II,_ bOOk, ti!W 'The ~ol'l'lt of Aut.,-,· II s..~f,kllOui~!DO' ,_MpKifvo," byTIUitfiHl.Whltm.n,
"............._..........................._..._. 
Wl'lfll1' Nul ~lqultt WI.~ tloMI'IQ l'denti'st llltllttl!iiCIO~, II<& h~ two ll(f!'I'IJO<'ofti,VIM~!'I.ImtoWhl'tf 
South Uoud, IN ts'l'l·••c Ll~ht Snow 
oi!Oo,~lo. 
~~.~­
;;::::~ ~· ""' r~li,
~~l()"'t4~WIO'II!ft u 
.;,,()tti<»Ji~l*f..,.l:tt 
W!l.~~\11\.fl'~ 

":.~~~~Moo:.,..__.,.__...,... :-W'I;;d-N-...-••---""I:Bd 
No~.• to tiM mlldift· n,. f1llk.wtlrf!IIJM'11rlit',l or N\Mr• Oam• hKutt.,. momoms.:~~• ' l•chnologv 
to 

=CI.:=:.........................._...... :!~"':;~~r:~~~~~t;~.l~ 
Uooot91 M. M~. Ft'lf'I(Ji "· M(AfllllwY PI"Q{•nur ot Hlttllli'"l U\tl Unlvilirr.lty t:rl : : f"..tlll)l!«1~<' '<\I{;Wt w" 
Nol'ro P.JT>'!'. II thf • · kUOO• Wtr.q..$ No,w, "'., 
Internet gateway for students, faculty is first step in University's Renovare Project 
By KATIE LAIRD 
News Writer 

Starling today, students will be able to log into a new spe­cialized Web site of University information called "Inside ND," ofl'ering students a multi­tude of new opportunities. 
With just a single AFS sign­on, students will be able to access e-mail. grades, Web File, national newspapers like The New York Times, campus news headlines, financial serv­ices and housing contracts. The new Web-based gateway will also allow students to reg­ister, customize content chan­nels, hold discussion boards and join groups. 
Inside ND is just one part of the Renovare Project, the new University mainframe system being installed and set for completion in two years. 
Larry LaTarte, the portal manager for OIT, is optimistic about. the outcome of the new gateway. 
"The goal of IInside NOI is to be a Web site that students, faculty and staff can log onto 
see RENOVARE/page 6 

times start by looking at the American Communist Party Wnb site, any old extreme place I can find, then say bofore we start class that I'm going to lay down the truth for you. I do that, then I say, 'Do pnople have any thoughts?' Often peopln don't for a while. Then I say, 'Do you know what you've just hoard, you bunch of sheep? Think for yoursnlves here.' Pnopln arnn't hnrn to receive truth. Political scientists havn very littln truth to oiTnr." 

Lindlny's l'irst-Incture strat­egy is a uniquo approach to thn situation that confronts all professors who tnach politically-sensitive classes -tho tension bntwnen their own convictions and the sub­ject matter of their· courses. 
"It's such a big issue," said Thomas Guglielmo, concur­rnnt professor of history and American studies. "I think my vinws of tho world, and obviously part of those views havn to do with polities, Observer file photo 
In many classes, professors are often torn between retaining and see POLITICS/page 4 disclosing their political stances, a choice which affects students. 
London students say uneven gender ratio not important 
Fewer males apply in fall due to football, according to program director 

By EILEEN DUHY 
Assist;llll News Ediwr 
Whiln fpmalns ol'tnn outnum­hPr malos in study abroad pro­grams, dirPctors say tlwy do not takn g1~1Hinr into ronsidoration wlwn rnvinwing an applicant. 
But an imhalan1:11 is Pspodally. apparon t in tlw London Program. whPrn this past fall, 1JO fnma)ps nnrollnd vorsus 49 mains and last spring fnmalns outnumbnrPd mains S3 to 65, 
said .Jon Stanl'inl. assoeiate dirnctor of the London Program. 
Terry Bays, another associate dirnetor or the Notre Damn London Program, said thnro arc generally morn women than men going to London, but said "tho diiTernnce is pretty slight," citing l'all 200:~·s ratio of 77 l'emalns to (,!) males and spring 2005's ratio of 69 l'emales to 60 males as examples. She also hypothesized that the reason more women applied for the fall was beeausn more rmm wantnd to stay on campus for football season. 
Bays did say tho London office has addressed this gen­der imbalance in tho past. 
"If it was felt that there was an imbalance, it was always addressnd at the levnl of' recruitment," she said. "There was a conenrted el'l'ort to, say, hold more informational meet­ings in the guys' dorms." 
Snveral students said the gen­der in1~quity did not affect their 
Monday, February 7, 2005
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Relax, Charlie 
Okay, Charlie. Breathe. 
For two months, you have had two full­time, pressure-packed jobs, and now you have just one. 
Enjoy it. 

Signing day is past and all the recruits have decided where they will be playing Ken Fowler nextyea~ Your job 
now is to prepare the Sports Writer Irish for the 2005­2006 season. And you know what that hyphen implies. Already, some dedicated-though misguided -posters on Rock's House at NDnation.com are wondering whether or not you have yet consulted with the reor­ganized athletic-department staff about using the Gug on Thursday nights before away games and how that will affect your practice schedule for the special­teams unit. But the smart ones have another idea for you: Chill out. Kick back and enjoy a few days at home with the family before you return to this family. You will have plenty of time to get the football team and the entire campus pumped, ready and nasty after you take a little vacation. In fact, it has begun. Just thinking about using your manipulative offensive schemes against Michigan makes walk­ing (and daydreaming) across Touchdown Jesus Quad incredibly enjoy­able. But right now, you need a break. Five hundred phone calls and 80-hour workweeks can only last so long. You've got to slow down to be ready for next season. The stress here will be unlike anything you've ever dealt with. You have to come in with a clear mind to deal with the press, especially for mid­week news conferences. Punt from the 30, and we'll make you think you just bombed Jordan when you meant to target Syria. Use all the team's timeouts in the third quarter, and certain Washington Post sportswriters will liken you to Chris Weber. Miss a kickoff because you were in the bathroom, and you'll hear it for the rest of your life­not just season or even career. Actually, that last part is not totally cor­rect. People still complain about Dan Devine's playcalling in the 1979 season. The man died two years ago. So get your mind out of football for a little while before you start dealing with that stuff. Clear your mind and spend some of those $2 million per year to take a load off after coaching 23 games since Aug. 13. Sure, Notre Dame needs you badly, but we need you as a coach who can come in here and kick butt for 25 straight weeks. We don't need you coming in here with half the weight of the world lifted off your shoulders only to be replaced by the other half. Your goal is to do something with the Irish that would make this campus go crazy. But you can't do that ifyou are going crazy in the process. So sit back, grab a beverage and watch some relaxing TV. Just one last suggestion: Stay away from Irish men's basketball games. They're known to cause ulcers. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and 
not  necessarily  those  of  The  
Observer.  ·  
Contact  Ken  Fowler  at  
kfowler1@nd. edu  

CORRECTION 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH CELEBRI7Y WOULD YOU ELECT STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND WHY? 







"Brett Favre, because he should be playing in the Super Bowl."  "Howard Stern, because this place is way too conservative. "  "The Fab Five from 'Queer Eye for the Straight Guy,' because they would shake things up around  "Bob Barker, because my sec­tion needs a new VCR."  "Napolean Dynamite, because he's flippin' sweet!"  "Sir Alec Guinness -he was Obi Wan Ken obi!"  
campus."  


Track and Field athlete Petra Dankova, a junior who is originally from the Czech Republic, participates in the triple jump finals in Sunday's Meyo Invitational. Dankova placed fifth in the event. 
OFFBEAT 

Legal challenges aren't squeezing this nudie bar 
SALEM, S.D. -The mix of nude dancers, orange juice and black-and-white independent films wasn't in Bob Rieger's original business plan. But it has helped his Racehorses Gentlemen's Club survive amid the cornfields of McCook County and fend off a two-year barrage of challenges from politicians and outraged members of 
Citizens  Against  Nude  
Juicebars  and  
Pornography.  

''I've been to court with them four times, and I beat them every time," 
TODAY 
a:: 
Rieger says. 

When the county denied Rieger a liquor license for a bar, he opened a strip club with a juice bar in 2003. When it served a stop order saying a com­mercial business could not operate in area zoned for agriculture, Rieger went to court and won. 
Bored boy uses Balaclava 
OSLO, Norway -A bored 12-year-old boy passing time by trying out his new balaclava trig­gered a terrorism alert at a southern Norway air­port. 
Glen Tommy Hvorup 
was waiting in a car for a delayed passenger at the Sandefjord Airport, about 60 miles south of Oslo, when he got fidgety, the local newspaper reported Monday. 
"We had been waiting for an hour and a half, and I was really bored," the boy told the Sandefjords Blad newspa­per. "I sat in the car and pulled the knitted cap down over my face a few times. I didn't notice any­one reacting." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. · 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
L&J 
:::c 
!;: 
L&J 
~ 
...J <( 
(.) 


..J 0 HIGH 38 HIGH 28 HIGH 36 HIGH 32 LOW 23 LOW 15 LOW 27 LOW 21 IN BRIEF 
Etienne De Jonghe, the International Secretary of the Pax Christi International, will lead a Fireside Chat called "The role of religious NGOs in Peacebuilding" tonight at 7 p.m. in the Coleman Morse lounge. 
Fom: 7 is sponsoring a showing of "The Passion of the Christ" in honor of Ash Wednesday, this Wednesday at 9 p.m. in the Coleman Morse lounge. 
Notre Dame will present its sec­ond annual Queer Film Festival beginning Wednesday and contin­uing through Saturday. The event takes place all day in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center and is sponsored by the department of film, television and theatre. 
The class of 2008 is holding "Speed Dating" Thursday from 7 to 10 p.m. at Legends. 
Actors from the London Stage will stage a performance of "Othello" Friday and Saturday nights at 7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is sponsored by the department of film. television and theatre. 
Chicago Samba, a Midwest­based music ensemble that per­forms authentic Brazilian music, will perform at the Palais Royale Friday from 8 p.m. until mid­night. The event is free and open to the public. It is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute, International Student Services and Activities, International Study Programs, La Alaianza, and WVPE 88.1 FM. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


~ 
HIGH 29 HIGH 29 LOW 19 LOW 20 
Atlanta 61 I 42 Boston 27 I 22 Chicago 36 I 26 Denver 48 I 24 Houston 62 I 52 Los Angeles 65 146 Minneapolis 28 1 22 New York 32 I 26 Philadelphia 36 I 26 Phoenix 60 I 44 Seattle 50 I 38 St. Louis 44 I 33 Tampa 72 1 55 Washington 38 126 
Monday, February 7, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's schedules second blood drive 
Due to success of first initiative, student organization plans another donation opportunity 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
With its first blood drive an overwhelming suct:ess, the Saint Mary's Af'filiation of the Anwrican Chnrnieal Socinty (SMAACS) is holding a sncond blood drive today from 9 a.m. until 3::Hl p.m. in Uw Hegina llall North Lounge. 
SMAACS member Donna l.ubhnrs organized both drives and said she is thrilled with tho snlf'lessness from the College community. 
"Thorn are usually blood drivns hold on campus -one during the first smnestnr and one during the sneond," l.ublu~rs said. "However:. no dub or organization had spon­sorml any of thnm so far, and htH:auso of the shortage, we dnddt~d we should hold one." 
Al'tPr thP sign-up sheet for thn f'irst drive, held Fob. 2, f'illnd up in lnss than a day, Lubbers decided to bring the South Bond Mndical Foundation .. (SBMFI hack to Saving a to donate," Lubbers said. "Every little bit helps, and we've more than exceeded any goal we had hoped for." 
As with the f'irst drive, the mobile blood bank will be transported to campus and set up in the lounge. Staff mem­bers from the SBMF then test fmch donor to make sure they are able to donate. These qualitkations inelude making sure the person is not ill, has high enough iron levels and has not donated within the last three months. 
Lubbers hopes to bring the SBMF to campus more often, especially since othnrs wantnd to donate, but were unable to fit it into their schedules. 
She is also encouraging any­one who has not donated to stop by today, or to contact the SBMF by calling or taking a walk in appointmnnt. 
"You !ill out a form and they check blood pressure, temper­ature, 'hemoatocrit and a few other things, and you can donate [I'. h right on the 
~,e as spot," Lubbers 

eampus.  never been easier."  said. "Saving a  
Luhhnrs  said  life  has  never  
whiln the first drivt~ brought in around 30  Donna Lubbers blood drive organizer  been easier." Junior Jocelyn Demeter said  
donor·s, thn soe­ she is planning  
ond  one is slatml  on  donating  

to havn more than 40 people. tomorrow for the first time. 
"Our !original! goal was "It's important to me to try rnally to get as many people to help others by giving some­who were willing and eligible thing I already have," Demeter said. "I have nerves. attempted to donate before "There are so many people but couldn't because of my in need, and it only takes lower iron. But now, I have about 30 minutes out of your taken care of the problem and day," Lubbers said. "And even am ready and willing to give though it does involve a nee­something to the community dle, its not painful and you got that I myself may need one a cookie and juice at the end." day." 

For anyone nervous about donating, Lubbers offers a few Contact Angela Saoud at encouraging words to calm saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
Museun1 director w-ill speak 
Special to The Observer 
.James Cuno, president and the Eloise W. Martin Dirnetor of the Art Institute of Chicago, will present a lecture titled "Why Art Museums are Essential: The Challenges and Opportunitins of Directing an Art Museum" at 7 
p.m. Thursday in thn Annnnberg Auditorium ol' thn Snito Museum of Art at the University of Notre Dame. The talk is free and open to the pub­lie. 
Formerly the director ol' the Courtauld Institute of Art in London, Cuno assumed direc­torship of the Chi<:ago institute in September. lie previously served as director of the art museums at llarvard University and Dartmouth Collnge, as well as the Grunwald Center for the Graphic Arts at UCLA, and taught art history eoursns at all three institutions. 
Cuno has writtnn and lectured extensively throughout the United States, Europe and Japan on topics ranging from Frnneh caricature of the 1Rth and 19th centuries to the role of art museums in contemporary American cultural policy. !lis most recent work on the latter topic is a book titled "Whose Muse? Art Musnums and the Public's Trust," for which he served as co-author and editor. 


Looking for something to ao Friday night ofJPWl 



-Come see Secona City ofChicago ana be prepairea to laugh the night away 
Washington Hall Friday February 18th Two shows: 6:30 and 9:30pm Tickets $5 for student $1 0 for adults 
Tickets on sale at LaFortune box office from February 2nd to February 18th R·emaining tickets will be sold at door 
brought to you by the student union board sub@nd.edu 
Monday, February 7, 2005 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Politics 
continued from page 1 
shape everything. I think it's a challenge to every pro­fessor to understand that, be aware of that, and to be par­ticularly vigilant about pre­senting multiple perspec­tives." 
Guglielmo said he believes the best method to take with students is to present and explain his beliefs in a professor, antagonistic to the 
U.S. military in all its forms, would point out the student as a tool of the "imperialist enemy," i.e., the United States, according to David Horowitz's "The Heterodoxy Handbook: How to Survive a PC Campus." Uncomfortable with being the butt of his professor's spite, the student asked the professor to allow him to drop the class, but the professor refused and at the end of the semester, failed 
way that is "I try to say,
neither one­
These are my
sided nor dog­
matic. perspectives, "I try to say, clearly it's coloring 
'These are my 
the way I view this 
perspectives. 
dearly it's col­recent history, oring the way and the way we I view this 
understand this 
recent history. 
and the way history should be an we under­open conversation."' stand this his­tory should be 
Tom Guglielmo
an open con­
versation,"' he American studies said. professor 
At schools across the country, the academic right to free classroom dialogue is occasionally disrupted by professors and administra­tors unwilling to listen to views that are not their own. 
In 1994, an Army ROTC student at Bowling Green took a class on the Vietnam War, and as it happened, one of the times he was required by ROTC to wear his fatigues overlapped with one of his Vietnam War classes. His him. 
More recently, the University of North Carolina­Wilmington's administration last year retracted its official recogni­tion of the uni­versity's College Republicans on the grounds the group limited its membership to Republicans. Only after seri­ous protest did UNC Wilmington reinstate the group. 
Notre Dame 
philosophy professor David Solomon knows of a former student who faced a similar conflict at Bryn Mawr. The student, who was the head of Bryn Mawr's two-person pro­life group, was allowed to attend a pro-choice talk and discussion only after signing a legal document in which she guaranteed she would not ask a question, Solomon said. 
Although these cases of 
professorial and administra­tive bias are the exception and not the rule, they have nonetheless generated a great deal of media attention and have been cited by con­servatives as evi­dence of the dis­moral issues, and I want them to tell me what they believe," Solomon said. "I think moral debate can't go on unless people put their own views out on the table." 

But political 
science profes­

proportionate lib­"Especially at sor Peri Arnold eral majority in took a different
this time of deep
American acade­perspective, 
mia. political diz;ision, believing pro­At Notre Dame, impartiality is fessors should professors are well keep their own
crucial." 
aware of this issue political views and consider it of outside the the utmost impor­Robert Schmuhl classroom as tance to maintain American studies much as possi­complete impar­ble.

professor
tiality with respect to their students at all times. However, the extent to which they tell stu­dents their views differs greatly from professor to professor. 
Political science professor Alvin Tillery, like Guglielmo, said he presents students with his political beliefs, but only as his personal conclu­sions, not as undeniable truth. 
"I tell students what I would do in a certain situa­tion, but I always say it's just my own struggle," Tillery said. "Is that right? It's right for me, but they have to fig­ure out what's right for them." 
Solomon, who teaches a number of medical ethics classes whose subjects are often controversial, stressed it was important both for both he and his students to present and refine their own views. 
'T tell students they will know what I believe on the "I rarely 

broach my own partisan political preferences in a classroom setting," Arnold said. "This is not political theology. Our first rtlsponsibility as students of politics is to put aside our ideologies and develop intel­lectual and analytical rigor." 
American studies professor Robert Schmuhl agreed. Keeping in mind the current contentious political climate, professors have a particular­ly deep obligation to keep their own views to them-. selves, he said. 
"Especially at this time of deep political division, impartiality is critical," Schmuhl said. "If there was a perception that a teacher thought one way or the other, that could create a barrier to understanding or to fostering an open mind about political issues." 
Contact Michael Busk at mbusk@nd.edu 


Jordan 
continued from page 1 
considering the generations of Notre Dame student<; who will reap the benefits of his contributions in so many ways." 
Current University President Father Edward Malloy also noted the impact that Jordan would have on the University's future. 
"This is an extraordinary gift," Malloy said, "from a man whose generosity will forever be a leg­endary part of Notre Dame's her­itage." 
Jordan has held a number of leadership roles on campus, includ­ing chair of the Board of Trustees' Finance Committee and chair of the Advisory Council for the College of Business. He is currently serving as chair of the Board of Trustees' Investment Committee. 
The city of Chicago is also feeling Jordan's impact. Ile is the founder of The Jordan Company, a private investment firm that acquires, man­ages and builds companies for the TJC partnership account, and is chairman and chief executive officer of the Chicago-based holding com­pany Jordan Industries Inc. Besides that, Jordan serves on the boards of the YMCA, Lyric Opera and Latin School of Chicago. 
Jordan earned a Bachelor's degree in finance from Notre Dame in 1969. In 2001, he received an honorary degree. 
Jordan and his wife currently reside in Chicago. They have two children; John "J.W." Jordan III, class of 2001, and Jennifer Jordan, class of 2003. 
Contact Eileen DuffY at eduflY 1 @nd.edu 



TO END EDUCATIONAL INEQUITY. 
Monday, February 7 • 7:00 p.m. • DeBartolo 131 

OUR GENERATION MUST TAKE ON THIS ISSUE. TEACH 
AMERICA 
www. teach for america. o rg 
For individuals ofall academic majors and career interests. Full salary and health benefits. 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 7, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Four Egyptians kidnapped 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -Gunmen waylaid a minibus ynsterday carrying foreign techni­cians to their jobs at a mobile tPiephone com­pany in western Baghdad, seizing four I·:gyptians in thn sncond kidnapping of for­Pigrwrs in thn Iraqi capital within a wnnk. 
Tlw daylight ambush occurred only two days al'tPr gunnwn grabbed an Italian woman journalist rwar Baghdad University, raising fpars of a new wave of kidnappings after a declinn in abductions sinee last year's capture of a rebd stronghold wnst of Baghdad. 
I·:lsnwhnrn. insurgents killed two Iraqi National Guard soldinrs Sunday and woundnd three otlwrs in an ambush south of Baghdad. 
Two rockets explodnd near Baghdad lntMnational Airport and a third slammnd into an Iraqi National Guard building in a Wl~stern suburb. Tlwrn wern no reports of casualtins. 
Kickbacks paid to secure oil trade 
(iENEV;\-As invnstigators eontinued their prohn into thn scandal-tainted U.N. oil-for­food program in Iraq, tho ;\ssociatnd Press Jnanwd yesterday that at least two Swiss trad­ing companies paid kickbacks to sneure eon­traits to buy oil from Saddam llussnin. 
Aeeording to documnnts obtained by AP, a Gnneva-basnd firm paid a $fJ0,000 illngal sur­charw~ to tlw Iraqi oil ministry in 2001. 
Tlw firm. Lakia Sari, paid the monny to an Iraqi-controlled hank aeeount in .Jordan in onlnr to obtain a contract for thn Iraqi oil.Thn company is run by Gazi Luguev, a Hussian. 
Whnn Iraq fail1~d to fulfill the contract, Lugunv complainnd to thn Iraqi Oil Marknting Organization, or SOMO, and d1~manded the kkkhaek bn returned. eopying thn r.orrespon­dnnl~n to tlw Unitml Nations. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
CIA to release Nazi war documents 
WASIIIN<iTON -The CIA has agreed to rnlnase more information about Nazi war erirninals it hired during the Cold War, end­ing a standoff between the intelligence agnncy and tlw group seeking the docu­nwnts, Sen. Mike DnWine said Sunday. 
DnWine, H-Ohio, was lead Senator author of a 199S law that rnquired all U.S. govern­ment doeurnents related to Nazi war erimes to be declassified, but the Central lntelligenee Agency had resisted giving up dntails about the work performed by agents with Nazi ties. 
The law has led to the release of more than X million pages of doeuments, ineluding 1.25 million from the CIA, which showed that the ageney or its predecessor, the Office of Stratngic Serviees, had a relationship with sonH~ individuals later found to be war erimi­nals. 
Nurse injects lethal doses in patients 
NOCONA. Texas -Many in town who saw and chatted with Vickie Dawn Jackson thought the nurse was sweet. patient and kindhearted. ller family saw it diiTnrently. 
.Jackson goes on trial this week, charged with injecting elderly patients with lethal drug doses, killing I 0 and injuring another. Jury selection begins Tuesday. 
The ease, according to Jackson's family, oiTnrs a glimpsn of a woman who had one faen for the world and a very diiTornnt onn for thosn dose to hnr. 
LOCAL NEWS 
IPS plans national leadership search 
INDI;\N;\I'OI.IS -One consultant has pro­posed a quick fix to Indianapolis Public Schools' snareh for a nnw superintendent: I.ook no further than Washington Township's 1\ugerw H. White. 
The suggestion from tho Illinois-based Bickert (iroup undorseorns tho attention the 56-year-old Whitn is drawing as IPS looks for a suceessor to n~tiring schools chief Dunean l'al f'ritdwtt. 
CoMPILED FROM Tr..rE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 ISRAEL 
Push continues to free more prisoners 
Palestinians agree to form joint committee that will decide on prisoner release 
Associated Press  
JEHUSALEM -Israel  
signaled Sunday it will  
consider freeing some  
Palostinian prisoners  
involved in attaeks on  
Israelis, defusing a crisis  
with the Palestinian  
Authority days .ahead of a  
historic Midoast summit.  
Last week, Israel's  
Cabinet approved tho  .  
release of 900 prisoners,  
none involved in violence.  
Palestinian officials com­ 
plained that the planned  
gesture. ahead of  
Tuesday's summit in the  
Egyptian Hed Sea resort of  
Sharm of-Sheik, did not go  
far enough, and the dis­ 
pute ovorshadowed sum­ 
mit preparations.  
Late Saturday, top aides  
of lsraoli !'rime Minister  
;\riel Sharon and  
Palestinian leader  
Mahmoud Abbas agreed to  
form a eommitteo to study  
additional releases, includ­ 
ing those of prisoners  
involved in attacks.  
Negotiators also linalized  
an arrangement of eondi­ 
tional amnesty for  
Palestinian fugitives, they  
said.  
Sunday, Secrntary of  
State Condoleezza Hice  
arrived for separate talks  AP  
with Israeli and Palestinian  U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice lays a wreath In front of the Eternal Fire,  
loaders, in part to review  Inside the Hall of Remembrance, at Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial Sunday  
the summit agenda. Her  
first stop was the  boost Abbas' efforts to  does not ease its criteria, it  ored by the joint commit­ 
Holocaust memorial in  negotiate an end to the  could hurt Abbas.  ten. In return, the  
Jerusalem, where she laid  armed Palestinian upris­ "It will not allow him to  Palestinian agreed not to  
a wreath and lit a llame at  ing.  sueceed in the Palestinian  make the prisoners "an  
a site where ashes from  Israel holds more than  street," Abdel Hazek told  issue at tho summit," tho  
Nazi death camps are  7,000 Palestinians prison­ Israel Army Hadio.  Israeli ollidal said.  
interred.  ers, many of them arrested  Israel's deputy defense  Israeli seeurity ol'fieials  
In the Gaza Strip, an  in the eurrent round of  minister, Zeev Boim, said  said Qassam Barghouti,  
Egyptian delegation Jed by  lighting.  additional prisoner releas­ son of imprisoned uprising  
the deputy of intelligence  Palestinian ollicials have  es were inevitable, but  leader Marwan Barghouti,  
ehief Omar Suleiman was  complained that Israel's  Israel would not rush into  would be freed. Tho  
to meet with Abbas, lead­ deeision to release 900  them.  younger Barghouti, a stu­ 
ers of militant groups and  prisoners is insuffieient.  "The issue of releasing  dent in Egypt, was arrest­ 
security commanders to  They are pushing for the  prisoners is very sensitive  ed on entering the Wnst  
shore up an emerging  immediate rolease of some  for them (tho Palestinians),  Bank in 2003 because  
cease-fire deal and review  400 prisoners convicted  so we will have to release  Israelis suspected him of  
the deployment of  before 1993, when Israel  prisoners," Boim told Army'  involvement in terrorist  
Palestinian police in the  and the PLO signed a  Radio. "The committee will  aetivities.  
volatile territory.  mutual recognition agree­ discuss how it ean be  Israel is refusing to free  
The prisoner issue is one  ment.  done."  the elder Barghouti, who is  
of the most emotionally  Hisharn Abdel Hazek,  A senior Israeli offieial  serving live life tnrms al'tm  
charged on the Israeli­ Palestinian Cabinet minis­ said on condition of  eonvictions on involvement  
Palestinian agenda, and a  ter in eharge of prisoner  anonymity that additional  in fatal attacks against  
large-scale release would  issues, said that if Israel  releases would be consid- Israelis.  



Bush proposes $2.5 trillion budget 
Congress on Monday will set off 150 government programs for nithnr 
Associated Press 

months of intense debate. outright elimination or sharp cut­
WASHINGTON -President Bush's Lawmakers from both parties ean baeks. $2.5 trillion budget is shaping up as be nxpeetod to vigorously fight to Bush will propose spnnding $2.5 his most austere, trying to restrain protect their favorite programs. trillion in thn budget year that spending aeross a wide swath of "This is the tightest budgot that begins Oet. I . government from popular farm sub­has been submitted since we got For thn eurrnnt ynar, lw is estimat­sidies to poor people's health pro­here," Cheney told "Fox News ing tho budget deficit will reach a grams. Sunday."· record $427 billion. 
Vice President Diek Cheney-on "It is a fair, reasonable, responsi­That compares with last ynar's Sunday defended the plan against ble, snrious piece of effort. $412 billion delidt and is the third Democratic criticism that Bush had "It's not something we have done straight year the Bush administra­to seek stoep cuts in scores of feder­with a meat ax, nor are we suddonly tion will have set, in dollar terms, a al programs because he is unwilling turning our backs on the most noedy delidt high. to roll back first-term tax euts that people in our socioty." The five-year projections in thn opponents contend primarily benn­The president, who eampaigned budget will show the delieit declin­lited the wealthy. for re-election on a pledge to eut the ing to about $230 billion in 2009, 
The budget's submission to deficit in half by 2009, is targeting whon a now prr~sident takes ollieo. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, February 7, 2005 
Renovare 
continued from page 1 

and get a broad amount of information that's all in one place," LaTarte said. 
Inside ND ran a pilot pro­gram with O'Neill students and the College of Business during winter 2004, o!Tering students different levels of exposure to the new system. According to LaTarte, users were pleased with the sys­tem. 
"The feedback has been positive," he said. "Students seem excited." 
Included on the Web site are students groups, provid­ing a new arena for student correspondence. For exam­ple, Inside NO's HecSports group could help makp, com­munication among team cap­tains and team members eas­ier and more effective. 
"It's pushing out informa­tion to a group or people that's more manageable," LaTarte said. 
Doug McKenna, the degree audit specialist, said the reg­istration for summer school classes and fall classes of next year will take place via Inside ND. McKenna also said Inside ND will make class registration and class search­es easier. 
"It will have a powerful functionality with class searches," he said. 
The current system of class registration on Irishlink allows students to search for classes only by title and sub­ject. With Inside ND, howev­er, students can perform a class search by course num­ber, title, professor, time and/or day of the week. 
Another change involving registration is there will no longer be a 15-minute win­dow for registering. Instead, students will still receive a registration appointment time, but they will now be free to make changes to their schedules through the sev­enth day of classes. Students will receive more information about the new registration process in March, McKenna said, but he believes it will be a positive change. 
"Students will never miss their appointment time," McKenna said. "It's user friendly ... and there are increased functionalities built in that we think students will like." 
LaTarte and McKenna both hope students will start using Inside ND right away. 
"It'II be nice if they get used to it," said McKenna. "Any information that a stu­dent could want will be avail­able on Inside ND." 
After Hewlett-Packard announced the discontinua­tion of support for the University's mainframe in fall 2001, the University had five years to completely renovate 
in Home last spring, pointed to academic majors as a rea­


Abroad 
son for the imbalance. "I think that girls are more

continued from page 1 
likely to study humanities or Several students said the foreign languages, and thus 

gender inequity did not want to study abroad," she affect their time in London said. whatsoever. Bays noted that an aca­
"I don't think it impacted demic major imbalance is my experience all that also a concern for the office. 
much," said junior Sean Friedman, who went to London this fall. "I did­n't think about how my gender would affect my acceptance, either. I just tried to write the best essay I could." 
Junior Christopher Mahoney, who also went to London this fall, said he didn't notice the dif­ference either Should the L o n d o n Program see
"I don't think it 
more students impacted my from one col­lege applying
experience all that 
than another, it 
much. I didn't 
makes similar think about efforts in the recruitment
how my gender 
process the
would affect my next year, con­acceptance, centrating on the underrep­
either." 
resented majors.Sean Friedman Cavanaugh London Program junior Meghan 
partie pant Desmond said the extra fem­ales expanded 

-but that he was used to the gender imbalance. 
"I am an English major. The ratio [in those classes] is pretty similar," he said. 
Emma Nolan, who studied her horizons. 
"I was able to get to know some girls from other dorms," she said. 
The only time that gender is considered in the study 
the system. Craig Brummell, the project manager for Renovare, said the new pri,­mary vendors include sup­port systems from SCT, and IBM is the platform the sys­tems sit on. OIT will run those systems from here on site. 
The Renovare Project has "required careful staging over a number of years," Brummell said. The University's financial services have been using the new mainframe system since last July and admitting offices already converted to the new system last fall. Brummell said the transition from the Qld mainframe system to Henovare has been going smoothly, thanks to the Henovare team of 80 to 100 people that has been working cross-cam pus. 
"They have been really dedicated ... making the transition as seamless as pos­sible," Brummell said. "In projects like these there are always issues. Change can be challenging ... but we have not had any major bumps along the way." 
Students will be receiving advertisements and commu­nications over the next five months with information about new updates and encouragements to Jog in and check out the new system. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 
abroad application review is after the students have been accepted, said Bays. At that point, the program starts calculating the numbers in order to place the students into their flats. 
Mahoney said the living situation was the only time he thought about gender in London. 
"With girls living just across the hall," he said, "I began to see the opposite sex less like objects and more like people." 
He recalled their first experience without pari­etals. 
"We were sitting around and suddenly 2 a.m. rolled around," he said. "We all asked ourselves, 'What hap­pens now?' When we real­ized nothing was going to happen to us, we carried on talking as·usual." 
More females or not, Mahoney found studying abroad to be a great experi­ence for gender relations. 
"We got along famously," he said, "traveling all around Europe together." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

Hopeful candidates prepare for 2008 election 
Associated Press 
MANCHESTER, N.H. -In the course of three short months, the political system has come run circle: a presidential campaign, an inauguration, a State of the Union address and now this ­another presidential race. A dozen or so ambitious 
Hepublicans  and  Democrats  
already  are  warming up  for  
2008.  

Former Democratic-vice presi­dential nominee John Edwards is taking on poverty and showing 
off a new stump Republican Gov. Mitt Homney of Massachusetts has donated more than $250,000 to GOP causes, collecting political IOUs while planning visits to early voting states. Democratic Sen. Evan Bayh of Indiana is hiring veteran opera­tives and talking up donors. 
No list could be made without men­tioning Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D­N.Y., and Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. ­two political Goliaths who cannot make a move without being accused of presiden­tial posturing. 
speech. 

"People are looking for strength and conviction, a core set of beliefs that we stand behind," he said in an interview previewing his speech to Democratic activists. 
"I just believe that what the American people need in their leaders is to know where they stand. They may not know the nuance of the policy, but they know where that person wants to take the country," Edwards said. 
Asked if President Bush passed that gut-check test with voters, Edwards paused before answer­ing. "l don't think that's true, but 
"If two years from now, you're just getting started on building a political team, two things will happen: All the top talent will be gone, and, more importantly, you'll start out with a team that's not cohesive." 
Anita Dunn political adviser 
there are a lot of people who do," he said. 
Edwards did not want to say why his former run­ning mate, Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts, is faulted for lacking conviction and vision. "I think that's a complicat­ed question," Edwards said. "Others can respond to that. I actually think John Kerry was a very good man and would have made a very good president." 
Kerry may still want to be presi­

"Many, many people on both sides will spend the next couple of years putting themselves in a position so they can decide whether or not to run," Bayh adviser Anita Dunn said. 
"If two years from now, you're just getting started on building a political team, two things will happen: All the top talent will be gone and, more importantly, you'll start out with a team that's not cohesive," she said. 
Wasting no time, Bayh has begun to put together a presi­dential-style political team. It includes Paul Maslin, pollster for Howard Dean's failed presiden­tial bid, and Steve Bouchard, a leading organizer in New Hampshire, traditionally the site of the first presidential primary. 
Edwards was in the Granite State on Saturday to speak about his fledgling Center on Poverty, Work and Opportunity. The North Carolina-based program will give Edwards a public plat­form and a cause, two things he will need to remain politically viable after leaving the Senate last month. 
While saying he has not decid­ed whether to seek the presiden­cy, Edwards sounded like a man who is putting a lot of thought into what makes voters tick. 
dent, a prospect that could com­plicate Edwards' aspirations. 
After falling 19 electoral votes short of the White House, Kerry quickly regrouped to make a trip to Iraq, ship two mass e-mails to 2004 supporters and deliver a health care speech that coun­tered Bush on the issue. 
Advisers say Kerry does not need to campaign as early as other potential candidates because of his high profile and big bank account. They reject criticism from fellow Democrats who accuse Kerry of running a poor campaign that froze out some of the party's top talent. 
Many Democrats predict that Clinton will be the early front­runner for the nomination should she decide to run. The former first lady has begun to talk more frequently in public about her faith and, like Edwards, casts the fight against poverty as a moral cause. 
Her recent speech on abortion broke no new ground, but nonetheless was dissected for signs that Clinton is moderating her views. 
Behind the scenes, her advisers are gearing up for her 2006 re­election campaign, which they hope is a trial run for a presi­dential race. 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Monday, February 7, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow
}ones. 10,716.13 +123.03 
Up: Same: Dowr1: Composite Volume 2,511 133 • 1,645,015,936 

AMEX I ,470.68 +20.04 NASDAQ 2,086.66 +29.02 NYSf 7,217.43 +69.11 S&PSOO I ,203.03 +13.14 NIKK£1(Tokyo) II ,395.43 +35.03 
FTSf IOO(London) 4,941 .50 +33.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR SER I (QQQQ) + 1.60 +0.60 37.75 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +2.17 +0.38 17.9( ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +2.40 +0.32 13.6E MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.53 +0.14 26.32 INTEL CP (INTC) +2.77 +0.62 23.0( 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -2.18 -1.00 44.78 I0-YEAR NOTE -2.16 -0.90 40.73 5-YEAR NOTE -2.29 -0.86 36.68 3-MONTH BILL -0.41 -0.1 0 24.22 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.03 46.48 GOLD ($rrroy oz.) -2.60 415.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.60 92.20 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 04.2200 EURO 0.7791 POUND 0.5340 
IN BRIEF 
Indiana RV plant lays of 125 workers 
DJ\CATUH -Hecreational vehiele manufac­turer Flootwood Entnrprises Inc., has laid on· rwarly I 0 poreent of its production work force, about 125 people, due to lower than expected dornand, company oflieials said. 
(o'lentwood spokeswoman Kathy Munson said tho work foreo cuts, which the company hopes aro tmnporary, were nended to reduce bloated inventories. 
"Demand has been volatile of late," she said. "It was particularly slow in the September­Oetobor timoframe in part boeause of weath­nr-rnlatnd issues in tho southeast United Statos and uncnrtainty about the election." 
Munson said Fleetwood had continued to build inventories until January thinking that dnmand would rome back more strongly than it did. 
Slw did not rule out further layoffs at the 125-aern operation, whieh turns out about 4,000 dinsnl HVs annually in Dec~atur, about :~5 miles south of Fort Wayne. 
Fleetwood also has a fibnrglass operation in Dec:atur that employs about 480 people and a roughly I SO-employee facility in Garrett about 20 miles north of Fort Wayne that makes man­ufaetun~d homes. 

Tribe opposes sale of Detroit casino 
lli<:THOIT -An Amnrican Indian tribe light­ing tho city over tho way franchises were awarded for the city's three casinos said Friday it would oppose thn sale of the MGM (;rand Detroit Casino. 
Thn Lac Vieux Desert Band of Lake Superior Chippnwa Indians, based in the western Upper Peninsula, said it had lilnd a notice of intent to opposo thn saln with the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appnals in Cincinnati. 
The court already is eonsidering the tribe's lawsuit challenging tho franchise bidding process. In 2002, it ordered the eity and devel­opnrs not to build permanent casinos while thn tribn prnssnd its case to reopen the bid­ding. 
Tho MGM Grand is owned by Las Vegas gambling giant MGM Mirage Inc., which last year agreed to purchase Mandalay Hesort Group, owner of a majority stake in Dntroit's MotorCity Casino. 

G-7 countries to take on debt 
Seven wealthiest nations make firm commitment to alleviate Third World poverty 
Associated Press 

LONDON -The world's seven wealthiest nations said Saturday they were willing to take on up to 100 percent of the debt owed by some of the poor­est countries. But they failed to agree on a British plan to boost intnrnational aid by $50 billion a year. 
But G-7 finance minis­ters said they would con­sider debt relief on a coun­try-by-country basis and underlined that govern­ments must show them­selves accountable for how thny would use money freed up by the relief for poverty reduction. 
"It is the richest coun­tries hearing the voices of the poor," said Britain's Treasury chief Gordon Brown, hailing the London gathering as a break­through. 
The ministers did not make any firm promises or say when such a relief pro­gram would begin or how much money the nations would be willing to pro­vide. 
But it was the firmest commitment thn G-7 industrialized nations have made to alleviate the debt burden that cripples the Third World. 
Britain has made tack­ling poverty in Africa and the developing world a pri­States said the plan did and African Development Nations in sub-Saharan ority for its presidency of not meet U.S. budgetary Bank, meeting interest Afriea alone own some $68 the G-8 -the Group of rules. repayments and paying otT billion to international Seven industrialized "The IFF is something the principle. bodies such as the World nations, plus Hussia -and that the U.S. cannot sup­"We are agreed on a Bank, the African says the United Nations' port because of our leg­case-by-case basis analysis Development Bank and Millennium Development islative process," U.S. of HIPC (heavily indebted International Monetary Goals of tackling the Treasury Undersecretary poor countries) based on Fund. poverty, hunger and dis­John Taylor said. our willingness to provide Oxfam senior policy ease affecting billions of Campaigners say the as much as 100 percent adviser Max Lawson wel­people will not be met by poorest countries find it multilateral debt relief," comed thn ministnrs' state­2015 without urgent impossible to improve the ministers said in a ment of thnir willingness action. their status because of statement. To qualify, to move on debt. "Thny'vn 
But U.S. opposition scut­unfair trade tariffs and the developing countries must passed the first hurdle of tled Brown's attempts to massive burden of interest have "sound, accountable 2005, but they need" to secure backing for his repayments. and transparent institu­movn qukkly to turn thnir plans to double interna­The G-7 ministers said tions." proposals into rna) tional aid by raising some that if a nation is approved Discussions on how to change," he said. $50 billion on the world for relief. their govern­move forward with the "If rich countries arn capital markets. ments would be willing to relief will continue during going to keep their prom­
France, Germany and take on up to 1 00 percent Britain's presideney of the ises to tackle obscene Italy backed his of the country's debt owed European Union, with fur­poverty they need deliver International Finance to international bodies ther details expected at -and delivnr quiekly," hn Facility, but the United such as the World Bank the G-8 summit in .July. said. 

Experts predict record high in gas prices 
Prices are highest on the West "We're starting to see the econo­
Associated Press 

Coast, averaging $1.99 a gallon and my come back, so dmnand can only 
WASHINGTON -Gasoline prices lowest in the Hocky Mountain go higher from where it's at," Larry rose more than 7 percent in region, averaging $1.83 a gallon. said. January, which typically is one of Last year, the average price Over the past four weeks, nation­the slowest driving months of the peaked above $2 a gallon in May, wide demand for gasolinn is up year. just before Memorial Day, which is more than 1 pnrcent at 8.8 million 
That's leading experts to predict the unofficial start of the summer barrels, according to the latest U.S. pump prices may surge past last driving season. government data. year's record highs when highway To be just a dime short of that · Larry said gasoline prices would travel picks up late in the spring. level in early February is not good be propelled highnr this spring by 
Government ligures show that the news for motorists, analysts said. fears about the nation's growing average price of regular unleaded Carl Larry, head of energy futures dependence on imports and the pos­has risen in each of J,he last four at Barclays Capital in New York, sibility of supply-ehain snags as weeks, jumping from $1.78 at the said he expects retail gasoline refiners temporarily shut down, or start of the year to $1.91 a gallon in prices to rise above last year's peak turn around operations in order to the week ended Jan. 31. due to rising demand for fuel and shirt production from winter-grade 
That's more than 30 cents a gallon the higher price of crude oil, from fuel to cleannr-burning summer higher than a year earlier. which gasoline is relined. blends. 

Monday, February 7, 2005

page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IRAQ 


Cotnplaints etnerge after historic election 
Irregularities between polling stations, ballots plague Iraq's electoral commission 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Some polling sta­tions were shuttered. Others ran out of ballots. A provincial gover­nor's name was left off the list of candidates. And some minorities complain it is all a plot to silence them. 
One week after Iraq's historic election, allegations of. confusion, mismanagement or worse are surfacing, complicating the vote count and perhaps providing ammunition for politicians to question the entire process if they do not fare well in the fmal tally. 
It is too early to tell if the criti­cism can undermine the legitima­cy of the incoming National Assembly. But in some local races, fears are already strong that flawed elec­tions will give rise to provincial 
"There are centers

councils with day was calmer skewed demo­that opened and yet than predicted and 
graphic represen­did not get enough many voters did 
tation. show -only to
ballots, which

The most seri­discover that some 
ous allegations proves there were polling centers are concentrated bad intentions." never opened and in violence­others ran out of 
plagued areas or ballots.
Meshaan ai-Jubouri 

those with mixed The scope of the religious and eth­Sunni Arab politician problem remains 
nic groups. Failure to recon­cile discord over the Jan. 30 vote could worsen local tensions. 
Iraq's ·electoral commission says it has received more than 100 complaints of irregularities. It has formed an independent team of three lawyers to investi­gate, though election officials have sought to downplay the scope and seriousness of the problems. 
"There are political parties that have contested the legitimacy of the election process even before the voting started," election offi­cial Adel al-Lami said. "It's because they know they won't get many votes." 
On Sunday, hundreds of Iraqis -mostly Assyrian Christians and Turkomens -shouted slogans and waved Iraqi flags outside Baghdad's heavily guarded Green Zone to protest alleged irregulari­ties in Mosul that they say pre­vented tens of thousands from voting. 
Because of the security situa­tion, many international monitors watched the election from nearby Jordan. Much of the voting and ballot counting was done in the presence of party representatives with their own agendas. And crit­ics say Iraqi monitors, however impartial, had little experience. 
One of the first public com­plaints came from Iraq's presi­dent, Ghazi al-Yawer, who told reporters that tens of thousands of people in Mosul were unable to vote because of insufficient bal­lots. Al-Yawer's base is in that northern city, which has a largely Sunni Arab population and signif­icant Kurdish and Christian minorities. 
His ticket is faring poorly in the early vote count nationally. 
The ballot shortage in Mosul meant many Sunni Arabs and others who wanted to vote could not. Other Sunnis stayed at home either out of fear of insurgent reprisals or opposition to ballot­ing with foreign troops in the country. 

However, such complaints are not limited to the Sunni Arabs. Kurds, Christians and Turkomens have lodged similar grievances. 
Mosul, Iraq's third-largest city, and its surrounding areas are at the epicenter of complaints. Mosul presented special chal­lenges even apart from the ethnic and cultural mix. 
There was a rebel uprising in the city in November and the entire 5,000-member police force deserted. U.S. and Iraqi forces quickly restored order but the sit­uation remained tense. 
With the insurgents threatening to disrupt the balloting, many ­if not most -of Mosul's election workers quit their jobs. Officials had to recruit replacements from as far away as Baghdad. 
Few expected a 
big turnout in 
Mosul. But election 
unclear, but sever­
al politicians claim hundreds of thousands were. dis­enfranchised in the city and sur­rounding province. An investiga­tion is under way. 
"There are centers that opened and yet did not get enough bal­lots, which proves there were bad intentions," said Meshaan al­Jubouri, a Sunni Arab politician. 
He claimed election officials were among those who "didn't want the Sunnis to vote so that the Shiites could score a fake vic­tory." 
Al-Jubouri is demanding that an international commission investigate the Mosul complaints and another election be held. The commission denies any move to disenfranchise voters but has ruled out a new election. 
Announcing the Year 


2005 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Alben Ravarinn family, the Italian Studies Program IS pleased to ~nnouncc the ~car 2CX>S annual competition for travel In support ol summer research and l~lfcign study In Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and \\'Ill not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate ami 
undergraduate _NtudcnL"i \\'~o ~rc planning to pursue research or a formal program of 
summ~r st~c.Jy 1n Italy arc mvucU to apply. Students must ha\'c complctcU at least one 
yearn! Italt~n language. The course work \\'ill normally be in Italian· will invol\'c the 
study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's 
degree program at the Uni \'crsi ty of Notre Dame. 
Rc~om~en~cd programs for foreign study include, but urc not limited tn: Loyola Um~·ersily 1n Rome, Boston University 1n Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami Univcrs!t\· 111 Urbtno, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students urc encouraued to~ consult the materials on Italian foreign study 111 the Department of Romancee Languages, 
343 O'Shaughnessy HalL 

Student!" arc 111\'lled to submit a lcllcl which should inclutlc: 
I)  an cxpl~matum of how the proposed rcscan:h or forctgn stutly will enhance thcu  
degree program at Notre Dame  
2)  a pcrso_nal_ state_mcnt indicating t_hcu· background. 1/llercsts. anJ long-term goals  
3)  a Uescnptllln oJ  the research proJect or the prngmm the) 1111cntl to follow  
4)  a butl~ctJntlicallng the costs 111\'0l\'ed  
5)  the names of t\\'o references.  
Application Deadline:  Monday, February 21", 2005  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholanhip  
Program in Halian Studie.lli  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dame  

THE VATICAN 



Pope determined to lead church 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY -Pope John Paul II blessed the faithful from his hospital window Sunday, looking frail and speaking with difficulty but determined to show he can still lead the Roman Catholic Church. 
The 10-minute appearance at an open window gave the pub­lic its first glimpse of the 84­year-old pontiff since his hospi­talization, which rekindled questions about his ability to carry on. 
You've probably read Chomsky, Foucault, and Peter Singer ... How would you like to hear a counter-argument, for once? 
The College Republicans and The Irish Rover, In collaboration with The Collegiate Patriot and the generosity of The Leadership Institute, 
Present 

Mr. Dan Flynn 
Author of 

Intellectual Morons: How Ideology Makes Smart People Fall for Stupid Ideas 
Come here Mr. Flynn present his take on anti-American philosophy, Margaret Sanger, the Leftism that pervades academia, and more. Students and Faculty of all philosophical backgrounds and political views are encouraged to attend~ intelligent discussion and debate is welcomed. 
Tues.=' Feb. 8=' 2005 at 8:30p.m. Debartolo 141 
Feel free to come directly from the ND-BC basketball game. 
For more information, please email editor@irishrover.net. 
The Irish Rover, an independent newspaper Serving Notre Dame du Lac \V\.V\V.irishrover.net 
The Collegiate Patriot-Sign up to receive this entertaining, intelligent weekly newsletter-a must read for 
He looked rested and alert, and a message read for him by an Argentine archbishop stand­ing beside him seemed designed to quell doubts about the pope's readiness and ability to lead the Church. 
" ... In this hospital. in the middle of other sick people to whom my affectionate thoughts go out, I can continue to serve the church and the entire humanity," the message said. 
As well-wishers. many with tears in their eyes, gazed up at his 1Oth-floor window. John 
the politically-inclined! h lip://col leg iatepatriot.us 




Students 
Fly Cheaper 
spring break. study abroad &more 
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from South Bend to: 
Toronto  $141  San Juan  $365  
Boston  $168  London  $368  
Denver  $168  Rio de Janeiro  $672  
San Diego  $233  Melbourne  $1308  

Paul gave his usual brief bless­ing. But his words, in a gravelly voice, were barely understand­able. 
"I think it's very touching because the Holy Father is not doing well and seeing his will to appear is moving," said Daniela Sgro, a 25-year-old Italian. 
"John Paul is a different pope," said Pilar Vizcaya, visit­ing Rome from Mexico. "He's very humane and has a big heart. Let's hope we can see him again in good health soon." 
.------­
Monday, February 7, 2005 The Obserr1er + NEWS page 9 
Nel'V CIA director chooses teatn 
Four months after his arrival, Goss determines agency's leadership 
making 30-year CIA veteran Others say the changes Goss is
Associated Press 
John Kringen the head of the proposing are not new at all. 
W/\SIIINGTON -Monday is Direetoratn of Intelligence, the The former head of the dandes­Day Orw of' a nnw era at the ageney's analysis division. That tine service, Jim Pavitt, said his Central lntnlligence Agency as move on Monday means Goss division had pushed for more dirndor Porter (;oss, on the job will have in place all the division people and money for human f'or four months, finally gets his chiefs he has chosen. intelligence for the past five lnadnrship team in pla1:e. Goss kept one holdover from years. 
The time since (;oss' swnar­the seven-year tenure of former "Stop the nonsense about risk ing-in has prove rocky for an CIA Director George Tenet -aversion," Pavitt said. "The new agnney still reeling science and tech­director and his staff did not from its f'ailuro to nology director come with this group of people warn of the Sept. Donald Kerr. and create this strategic vision II attacks and its "You couldn 't expect Goss, a CIA for doing espionage better. It is flawnd prewar operative in the something we were doing for a
anybody to have the 

intelligence on 1960s, got a long time. We were fighting for 
same leadership in

Iraq's weapons. mandate from dollars. We were fighting for 
Morn than a place and approve President Bush people. You don't do it dozen senior oiTi­the operation of the and the Congress overnight." eials havn left to tackle tough "If risk aversion means fear of 
agency.

since (;oss arrivnd. intelligence taking a physical risk, on my The mossy details changes. Eyes watch, I burind too many of my or some internal Saxby Chambliss are on where oflicers" to say that was a prob­battles have Goss takes the lem, said Pavitt, who always
senator, R-Ga. 

snnpnd into tho agency. counted Goss as a friend and news. The CIA din~c-wants to see the agency succend. 
Critics have com-tor has said he Goss, 66, is tackling intelli­plained that Goss, a former intends to improve the risky gence issues at a difficult time. H1~publican congrnssman who work of using people to steal Military operations around the snrvnd as chairman of the Ilousn secrets-human-intelligence globe require dose collaboration lntnllignncn Committee, politi­gathering -and bolster lan­of the intelligence community, dznd thn agency by hiring GOP guage capabilities. lie wants to including the nine intelligence aidns. improve tho quality of agencies that 
(;oss' allins say wholesale intelligence analysis answer to Defense changes wen~ nssnntial after the reports and hopes to "Stop the Secretary Donald intellignnc1~ f'ailurns of' Sopt. 11 change a eulturP that II. Rumsfeld.
nonsense about
and Iraq. hn considers averse to While conniet is
risk aversion." 
"You couldn't ox poet anybody risk. inherent in any to have the same leadership in 1\ eountnrterrorism relationship ph11:e and irnprovn the opnration ollieial said Goss is col­between the

Jim Pavitt 
of' thn agnney," said S1~n. Saxby lapsing layers of Pentagon and the

former CIA 
Chambliss, H-Ga., a Goss f'riend bureaucracy, so that spy agency. intelli­

director of 
and rnernbnr of the Senate the operatives in the gence officials say lntnllignncn Cornmittne .• field are elosor to tho operations suggestions of 
"Whiln it's h1H~n very contro­decision-makers at feuding are great­versial, Porter had to make CIA's headquarters. ly exaggerated. sonw change of' people, who "Changing a risk-averse culture There's also signiiieant uncer­wnrn good p1H>pln and individu­doesn't take a lot of money. It tainty about the shape of thn ally tlwy were nice people, but takes a change in senior man­intelligence community, given thn job wasn't getting done," agement," said the ollieial, who the December passage of the (:ham bliss said. spoke on the condition of most sweeping intelligence legis­
Among thn nnw hirns, Goss is anonymity. lation in over 50 years. 
2005 SUMMER RESIDENCE HALL STAFF 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing is currently accepting applications for summer positions. 
• 
Be part of a successful team 

• 
Share your Notre Dame experience 

• 
Meet new people 



The application and additional information is available in the Office of Residence Life and Housing or on-line at: 


orlh.-nd.edu/employment 
Applications: on-line until Feb. 23 Interview sign-up: Feb. 23-March 4 Interviews: March 15-24 
Sign-up and interviews will be 1n 305 Main Building. 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
Phone: 631-5!17!1 E-Mail: sumstaff@nd.cdu



oil&Fi 
Rescuers of Jevvish refugees recognized 
who also was governor of'
Associated Press 

I n d i an a in 1 9 :3 :3 -:3 7 , a 11 d 
CINCINNATI -As the Nazis Manuel L. Quezon, thn l'irst took power in Germany and Philippine president -to lwlp the world turned its back on the mostly (;orman and Jewish rnfugees, four brothers Austrian rnf'ugees get passports who ran a dgar factory in the and visas, then lind employ­Philippines worked quietly to mont and homes in Manila. help 1,200 Jews floe to Manila. "We wore weleomod in the 
The Frieder brothers never Philippines at a time when the talked about their part in the gates to Jews were dosed all little-known rescue. But some over the world," said rnf'ugee 65 years later, the Lotte llnrshl'inld, remaining 74, of' West rel'ugees want the Ilartf'ord, Conn. 
"The Frieder 
world to know The reseun was
brothers were
what Philip, Alex, little known until Morris and just ordinary a recent book by Herbert Frieder Jewish Ephraim, "Escape achieved. to Manila: From
businessmen, but 
"The Frieder Nazi Tyranny to brothers were just they went out of .Japanese Terror," ordinary Jewish their way to save led to niTorts in businessmen, but the Unitnd States
lives."

they went out of and the Phil­their way to save ippines to honor lives," said Frank Frank Ephraim the humanitarian Ephraim, who was Jewish refugee eiTort bef'ore the eight years old aging refugees din when his family on·. fled to Manila from Germany in "Our numbers are dwindling, 1939. "No one made them do and I didn't want this story to it. They just did what they be lost forever," said Ephraim, thought was right." 73, of' Washinhrton, D.C. 
The brothers from Cincinnati Nnxt Sunday, Cincinnati's had taken turns going to Center f'or llolocaust and Manila for two-year periods I lum[mity Education will honor during the 1920s and '30s to the Frieder brothers, Quezon, run the llelena Cigar Factory, McNutt and tho ·Filipino people. started by their father in 191 S. At least 25 ref'ugnes and thnir 
While they were there, they descendants and nearly I00 established a Jewish Hefugne members of' the Frimlnr family Committee and worked with will join relatives of' McNutt highly placed friends -U.S. and Quezon and the Philippine High Commissioner of the Ambassador Alberto Dnl Philippines Paul V. McNutt, Hosario. 
Fetnale detnoted for 
indecent exposure 
Member of Guard unit punished after participating in mud-wrestling party in Iraq 
Associated Press 
HALEIGII, N.C.-1\ female member of' a National Guard military police unit was demot­ed lor indecent exposure alter a mud-wrestling party at the 1\rmy-run Camp Bueea detnn­tion center in Iraq, a military spokesman said Sunday. 
The party occurred Oct. 30, as tho 160th Military Police Battalion, an Army Heserve Unit from Tallahassee, Fla., pre­parl1d to turn over its duties to the Asheville-based 1 O!ith Military Police Battalion, said Lt. Col. Barry Johnson, spoknsrnan l'or detainee operations at Camp Bucca. 
In the eoursn of the trans for of duties, "some individuals in their exuberance dncided to put together a mud-wrestling thing," Johnson said Sunday by tnlephone. 'There wore linnales involved, and some mombers of' th1~ 105th also beeamc involved, one female soldier in particu­lar." 
Following an inquiry, that sol­dier was demoted and placod on restriction for participating in the event, speeil'ieally for indecent exposure, he said. 
Four or live othnr mnmbnrs of the 1 05th who worn spnetators received counseling, Johnson said. 
Johnson did not release tlw name of tho demoted soldier. 

Ilowover, she was identified by the Daily News as Ikarma Allen, 19, and thn New York newspa­per's idenl.il'ieation was eon­firmed by lwr mother, Ladyna Waldrop of' Black Mountain. 
Allen was demoted f'rom spe­cialist to private lirst class. She is still a guard at thn eamp, thn nnwspapnr said. 
The Daily News said it was given 30 of the party photos, and it printed s1weral in Sunday's nditions. 
Waldrop said hnr daughtnr is dnvastatnd by the evonL'>. 
"It was just a thing whnrn she was eoercnd by a bunch of' pPo­pln, and with all thn exdtnmnnt, she lost her sanity l'or a f'iwmnnt and that's all it took," she said. 
"It snmns like they're just sin­gling her out," Waldrop said. "She's the one getting all the publicity and punishnwnt, and that's not right." 
The 105th took ovnr Camp Bueea on Nov. I , and photos of' the party worn found aftnr the 160th had lnft Iraq, Johnson said, adding that he undnrstood a soldinr had turned ovnr tlw photos to eormnanders. 
Hnsults of' the inquiry wern sent to tlw commander of tlw I 60th, he said. "It appears from tlw commander's inquiry that this was primarily put on by troops of thn If10th, who an~ no longer under our command," .Johnson said. 
page 10 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 7, 2005 
ETHIOPIA 
Citizens celebrate Marley's birthday 
Rastafarians join bash for late reggae star 
Associated Press ADDIS ABABA -Thousands of Ethiopians and Rastafarians were jamming on a hot Sunday in the capital's main square as Ethiopia threw a birthday bash for the late reggae star Bob Marley, in what is billed as the country's largest concert. The bash, part of month-long celebrations of the 60th anniversary of Marley's birth, marks the first time the event is being held outside the singer's native Jamaica and is organized by the Bob Marley Foundation, the U.N. children's agency, the African Union and others. Marley, who died in 1981. looked to Ethiopia throughout his life as the spiri­tual home of his Hastafarian faith. A priest from the Ethiopian Orthodox Church blessed the event and then first on stage 
was  Burundi's  Royal  
Drummers.  
Many  of those in Meske!  

Square for Sunday's concert wore T-shirts emblazoned with portraits of Bob Marley, includ­ing Minister of State for Information Netsanet Asfaw. Others wore jewelry and T­shirts decorated with the Ethiopian flag and Rastafarian colors of green, yellow and red. 
Organizers said they expect­ed as many as 300,000 people to attend the free event, which was dubbed "Africa Unite" after one of Marley's many famous songs. There are only 2,000 seats for guests who will be paying $100 each. 
"I think it is incredible that so many years after brother Bob's death, he still inspires such an amazing show," said Yohannes, a Rastafarian, who only goes by a single name. Originally from Crystal Palace, London, he now lives in Addis Ababa and is married to an Ethiopian. 
The audience had swelled to about 20,000 people early Sunday when the first set was played. About 2,000 policemen patrolled the venue, a police­man said. 
Benin music star Angelique Kidjo sang later Sunday as did well-known Ethiopian artists. Marley's five sons, his widow and former backup singers are expected to perform, along with Senegal's Youssou N'dour and Baaba Maal. 
Ethiopia's evangelical churches on Saturday objected to the celebrations, saying that Hastafarians are wrong to con­sider Ethiopia's last emperor as a living god and that Ethiopian young people would be explosed to marijuana. 
The Ethiopian Orthodox Church, the country's main church, has supported the cele­brations. 
Some Rastafarians smoke marijuana as a sacrament, but others object to its use. Most Rastafarians preach a oneness with nature and grow their hair into long matted strands called dreadlocks. 
ISRAEL 


Rice says 'hard decisions' necessary for peace 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -The United States will ask Israel to make "hard decisions" as it moves toward peace with the Palestinians, and both sides must live up to their promises, Condoleezza Rice said Sunday during her first trip to the Middle East as secretary of state. 
Hice's two-day visit to Israel and the West Bank headquarters of the newly elected Palestinian government is meant to nudge both sides to take hold of what Rice called "a time of opportuni­ty" and end four years of war. 
Hice met privately Sunday with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, the former warrior turned potential peacemaker. On Monday, she planned to visit with the Palestinians' new president, Mahmoud Abbas. 
".We will ask of our partners and our friends here in Israel that Israel continue to make the hard decisions that must be taken in order to promote peace and help tribute to the peace process that the emergence of a democratic we so much want to advance," Palestinian state," Hice said Sharon said in Hebrew. · Sunday. In a boost to peace prospects, 
Hice did not go into specifics. the mainstream Palestinian But among the major challenges movement Fatah said Sunday it are what to do about Israeli out­would agree to a mutual cease­
posts on land that  fire with Israel in  
Palestinians eventu­ally would control; the fate of the con­ "Her visit, I believe, will  the West Bank and Gaza. Fatah also ruled out attacks  
tentious separation  contribute to the  against civilians  
barrier Israel is building between itself and the West  peace process that we so much want  inside Israel. Palestinians hope for such a  
Bank;  and  new  to advance."  mutual declara­ 
security arrange­ tion when Abbas  
ments with Palestinians. addition,  the In the  Ariel Sharon Israeli prime minister  meets Sharon at a summit in Egypt. Rice is not attend- 
Palestinians hope to  ing that gathering.  

make east Jerusalem the capital A lasting peace deal for Israel of an independent state, while and creation of a Palestinian Israel claims the entire city as its democracy are chief foreign poli­capital. cy goals for the United States in 
Sharon greeted Rice warmly, President Bush's second term. telling her in English, "you are For now, though, the United among friends." States is taking a low-key 
"Her visit, I believe, will con-approach. 
As Hice visited European capi­tals last week, she repeatedly said that Israel and the Palestinians should control their own path to peace, with help from the United States, Europeans and others. 
In Turkey earlier Sunday, Hice said the United States has no immediate plans to name a spe­cial envoy for Middle East peace, although the administration is working on ways to monitor or enforce a cease-lire. 
Hice is making an eight-day trip through Europe and the Middle East, her first overseas diplomacy since taking over from Colin Powell at the State Department. 
Hice's schedule is carefully laid out to balance Israeli and Palestinian sensitivities. She will be the most senior U.S. official to see Abbas since his election last month. It is also the first time in years that a senior American offi­cial has gone to Ramallah, site of former Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat's crumbling compound. 
MEXICO 

Fears of violence increase during elections 

Attacks, police strike provoke worries in three vacation states 
Associated Press 

ACAPULCO -Guerrilla-style attacks in Acapulco and a police strike in Cancun have added to worries over Sunday's gubernatorial elec­tions in three vacation-orient­ed Mexican states where par­ties do not usually refer to pol­itics. 
Voters wearing bathing suits and plastic sandals filed though open-air polling places along Acapulco's posh Costera boulevard Sunday and in the hillside slums where many. tourism industry workers live. 
The voting -and likely post­election feuding -in the states of Guerrero, Quintana Hoo and Baja California Sur could affect the 2006 national presidential campaign. 
The Democratic Revolution Party, which finished third in the last two presidential races, is counting on a strong show­ing to prove it is a strong national challenger. 
The Institutional Revolution­ary Party, or PRI, hopes the three states will pull it still fur­ther out of the crisis caused by its loss of the 2000 presidential election, ending 71 years in power. 
The most bitter battleground is Guerrero, a state that lures millions of tourists a year to beaches in Acapulco and Zihuatanejo -but whose mountains also hold some of the most impoverished, violent and isolated villages in Mexico. 
The Democratic Revolution candidate, former Acapulco Mayor Zeferino Torreblanca, is in a statistical dead heat in the 
polls with the PHI's Hector 
Astudillo. 
Each party has accused the 
other of trying to intimidate or 
buy voters, and Democratic 
Hevoluti"On has accused state 
electoral authorities of author­
izing pro-PRJ companies to 
conduct exit polls and quick · 
counts. 
The tension sharpened 
Saturday when unidentified gunmen with automatic weapons killed three police­men and a 15-year-old -bystander in the Acapulco area in three separate attacks -one of them just blocks from 
the city's famed waterfront. 
Democratic Revolution's 
campaign chief, Julio Ortega, 
virtually accused the PHI of 
murder, saying the attack was 
part of the PHI's campaign to 
intimidate voters. 
Victor Manuel Silva, the 

national PRJ's delegate to the state, blamed the city's Democratic Hnvolution admin­istration for failing to halt the violence. 
The P·Hl has won seven of the last 1 0 gubernatorial raees iii Mexico but often by tight margins in states considered its strongholds. 
A PHI victory here would be especially notable because the party struggled in Guerrero even before losing the presi­dency. The PHI won the 1999 gubernatorial election by a slim margin, and Democratic Hevolution narrowly defeated it in the 2002 municipal elec­tions. 
In Quintana Hoo on Mexico's southeastern coast, election security was complicated by a strike by some 200 police offi­cers in Cancun, which has about half the state's popula­tion. 


--~---~-~~ ~-~--------~--~~-------------------------------------------------­
Monday, February 7, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page II 

McCartney plays it safe at halftitne show-
AP Paul McCartney performs during his halftime show at Super Bowl XXXIX between the New England Patriots and Philadelphia Eagles. 
Associated Press 
NI~W YOHK -Nobody, but nobody was worrind when Paul McCartney stripped oil' his jaek­~~t midway through his halftime pnrformanen at the Supnr Bowl. 
All he revnalnd was a long­slnnvml rnd shirt. Nothing rnal­fund.ionml. And if he wore any nipple jnwnlry, lw mercifully knpt it to himself. 
NFI. oiTicials wantnd a sal'e halftime show after last year's .larwt .Jackson fiasco, and McCartney dnliven~d. It was swnnt nostalgia for t.he people stunrwd by .Jackson's MTV-pro­ducnd spnetadn, if a bit ofT-put­ting for the kids: 1\aeh of his !'our songs was morn than :{0 years old. 
Surt•ly you recall last year's dimax to a body-shaking, crotch-grabbing fnstival: .Justin Timberlake yanking part of .larkson's top ofT to reveal hnr barP brnast to some 1)0 million vit•wors. 
Mc<:artnoy's stage set -a giant cross of vidno boards on tho stadium floor with tho 



How would you score? 
Take a FREE practice test at Kaplan's Test Drive and find out. 
Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back" 
Call or visit us online today to register! 

4:t,ii1:1It !~:t:~t:c~!~;:.~d~!. 
Test Prep and Admissions 
.......,.. •• ,..........,,,_"•flfm.w••~--••Conlllllor!•n•••'"'*klnol~ forcprroploH•I-anc... •illlblijtyfiiQUifltf11ttnll, lllallo_.._,.,"""-n. ....... lu'lte0u.-anlrCiflllniD~UIWMtt-..nniXIIfii*IIKJWIIhi11U111Unllld!illll.ll'ldC..... 
singnr at the eenter -was visually arresting, although it made his opening song, "Drive My Car," look like one of the broadcast's dozens of auto com­nwreials. 
McCartnoy's theatrieal .lames Bond theme "Live and Let Die" was a perft~ct backdrop for a stadium fireworks show. The lights, placards and video images also made "Hey .Jude" a sight to sen, although it was odd to see the red, white and blue placards eo-opt one of the origi­nal British musical invaders for an all-American event. 
There wasn't any danger of a lip-synch controversy, either. You eould tnll it was the lived-in voice of a 62-year-old singing. 
It was strange seeing the for­mer Beatie, a bold and shocking performer for another genera­tion, now presented as the sedate option. NFL censors wern probably hoping the "California grass" reference in "(;et Back" slipped by unno­ticed, or figured people would think he was simply referring to a football field. 

Playground willlllelllorialize girl 
Associated Press 

CHOTHEHSVILLE, Ind. ­Hundreds of people paid their final rnspnets to a slain 1 0-year­old girl Sunday and learned of her family's plans to mmnorial­ize her with a playground on thf1 site of a methamphetamine operation linkod to her death. 
The family held the funeral for Katlyn "Katie" Collman at Crothersville Community School, where she was a fourth­grader. llnr body was found Jan. 30 in a creek about 15 miles north of this town of about 1,600 people after she had been abducted, authorities 
Black couple sues Fannie Mae 
Pair suggests that the company accepted lower bid from white man 
Associated Press 

SOUTH BEND -A black cou­ple who allege that their mort­gage-backed offer for a house was rnjected for a lower cash bid by a white man is suing Fannie Mae, accusing the mortgage giant of racial discrimination. 
Hay and Dorothy Scaife's com­plaint filed with the South Bend Human Hights Commission recently became a federal law­suit claiming Fair !lousing Act violations. 
It alleges that Fannie Mae refusnd to sell the house to the Seaifes because of their race and that il'i preference for cash sales over conventional forms of financing is a discriminatory praetice. 
The Seaifes and South Bend Human Hights Commission are now pitted against the govern-
Lafayette Square continues to be popular choicefor off-campus housing 
In a time ofchanging climate in the off-campus housing market, one constant has remained. Lafayette Square Townhomes continues to deliver the finest in student housing at the most reasonable price. While most landlords are charging $300 to $400 per student, Lafayette Square is offering its 4 and 5 bedroom apartments at just $210 per person through the end of February. Although the amenities are too 
numerous to list, the most popular features include the central air, washer and dryer, dishwasher, 2 bathrooms, private patio and spacious storage and living areas. 
Located just south of Notre Dame on the 400 block of Eddy Street, the blue townhomes of Lafayette Square have gained the reputation of being the "in" place to live for college students. In fact, anyone spending a weekend there will quickly understand why it is nicknamed the "Blue Zoo". Property Manager Rod Ludwig encourages the students to have fun while at the same time to be smart about their partying. "The key is to not disrupt the surrounding neighborhood. Our students have proven that it is possible to party and have a good time while at the same time not cause problems in the community," Ludwig states. 
With just 15 townhomes left for the 2005-2006 school year, students must act quickly to guarantee housing for next school year. For a private showing or additional information, contact Real Estate Management Corporation at 234-9923. 

said, to intimidate her from revealing a methamphotamine operation in an apartment near hor home. 
The Hev. Jon Pnarce told more than 600 mourners at the funeral that Collman's death should serve as "a wake-up call." 
"If' Katie hadn't bnen walking by a moth IRb. slw would be alive today," he said. "We can't f'nrget her..Wn need to rmncm­ber that she was a swnet little girl." 
Collman's family plans to ust~ money that remains in a memo­rial fund for the girl to acquire and level the apartment build­
mont-sponsored Federal National Mortgage Association -also known as Fannie Mae -a Hoaltor and thn Mishawaka agency she works fi1r. 
Tho parties agree tlmt the issue is Fannie Mae's purported prac­tice of preferring a cash offer over one contingent on financing when house offers are compara­ble. 
Aladean DeBose, a deputy Fort Wayne city attorney who repre­sents the plaintiffs, said it runs contrary to the statnd purpose of increasing home ownership among low-income people, espe­cially minorities. 
"If that's truly a policy of Fannie Man, tl1en it needs to be changed," she said. 
The defendants have filed motions to dismiss the case on procedural matters. Fannie Mae's lawyer further argued the ing whern she had witnessnd people making or using methamphetamine, said Torry Gray, a spokesman !'or the girl's family and rhid of tlw Crothersvilln-V~>rnon Township VoluntnPr Fin~ Dt>partnwnt. 
"The goal WP art> shooting fi1r is around $400,000 to tear thosn places down and to change a moth lab into a play­ground," (;ray said. "It will be a playground honoring Katie." 
Tho f'und already had $100,000 pledgnd to the projnr.t, (;ray said. The f'amily hopes to have a ribbon cutting eoremony on Aug. I:~. which would have boon Collman's 11th birthday. 
lawsuit fi.Lils to statn a valid daim becausP there was no "intnntion­al discrimination" against tlw Scaifes. 
Jennifer Bickley llull. an Indiana lawyer who rnprost>nts Fannie Mae, pointed out in a court brief that the plaintifls do not claim Fannie Man wa.'i even aware of tho ram of oitlwr bid applicant. 
Tho case stems fhnn a two-day pnriod in Dncmnber 2003 whnn the Seail(ls tried to buy a house in South Bend. Fannie Mao appar­ently <u:quirnd the housP through a foredosurn. 
According to the lawsuit, Dorothy Scaife met with a real estatn hroknr to discuss the eou­ple's internst. The broker advisnd her to make an om~r above the house's list prke of$19,5000 and to put down morn than $500 in earnest money. 
Tl·IE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, February 7, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
PO. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BusiNFSS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin An DFSIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 sccne.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 63I-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the tight ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials' represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. C'..ommentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direcud to E-ditor in Chiif Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht' Obsctvt:r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishtd Mon<hy through Friday except during eXiUtl and vtcation p«iads. Asu.bscript!Oll to The:: Ohsavcr i~ $100 (Qr om academic ye11r: $S~ for Qne seml!$(tf. 
The Obsc~r is publi$.1!00 at: POSTMASTER 
021 Sourh Dining. Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical po~tagt: paid a1 None Dame P.O. Box 779 
~nd additional mailing oftices. 024 Somh Dining Hall 
Nom: Dame, IN 41');1)6-0779 
The Oho.crver i1 a memher ortht Asst)(:iatc:d Press. AU tc:ptoductiun right:~ are t~tvcd. 

Challenging the media bias 
The retirement of commentator William Safire -one of two rather lonely conservative voices coming from the Op-Ed pages ofThfl New York Times -has instigated a fresh slew of 
attacks by conserva­ 
tive pundits about  Michael  
the liberal media bias  Poffenberger  
at the newspaper.  
Safire was, after all, just about the only  Say JtVhy Not  
buffer between the  

Times and forced admittance of its strongly left-leaning tendencies. But questions of media responsibility, espe­cially at this moment of crisis, extend well beyond the typical objections to liberal bias. Hecent scandals are forc­ing people of goodwill to think seriously about the need for change in the way the media is run in the United States. 
In the last month, it has been discov­ered Bush Administration officials are paying off conservative analysts to sup­port some of the administration's vari­ous policy proposals. The scandal began with commentator Michael McManus, who personally received $10,000 and whose right-wing Marriage Savers Foundation received a generous $49,000 for McManus' print­ed praise for Bush's marriage initiative. Conservative columnist Maggie Gallagher received $41,500 for her support of the initiative. And most recently, leading black conservative Armstrong Williams was found to have taken a whopping $241 ,000 -straight from the pockets of American taxpay­ers and with the approval of the U.S. Secretary of Education -for his role in drumming up support among the Black community for the No Child Left Behind education legislation. None of these three individuals found their bribes to be relevant enough to merit informing their host publications. 
While payola and bribery certainly represent the worst of media practice in our country, limiting the discussion of responsible media to the actions of a few unethical individuals would be missing the much bigger point. Columnists and commentators have been bought off, but the real issue at hand is the buying off of the entire institution of the media by undemocrat­ic and for-profit corporations. 
Media outlets do not exist to make the world a better place, or even to be fair in their reporting. Their institution­al mandate is to increase the profit of their shareholders. The tenuous justifi­cation for this structuring is that Americans should in theory desire unbiased news, and as such the most profitable media corporations would be those that are most fair in their report­ing. But, as the catapulting of Fox News and The New York Times to the top of their respective viewership charts demonstrates, what Americans tend to want most from what they watch and read is to reinforce their preexisting beliefs. This reality serves to deepen existing cultural divides in our country and to weaken honest dialogue. An alternative approach incorporating publicly-owned media would at least minimize the agenda-pushing of major media outlets. 
Furthermore, media organizations do not practice democratic principles in their reporting. Certain people and groups have much greater access to the media than others. These biases -the representation of the experiences and perspectives of one person or group of people more than others -can be related to categories of race, class, reli­gion and gender just as much as parti­san affiliation. While regulation forcing the representation of a diversity of views could be seen as an infringement upon free speech, requiring a more transparent accounting of who pres­ents the news might alleviate some of these problems. Making public the backgrounds, beliefs and viewpoints of individuals reporting the news would at least make more Americans aware of the power of spin. 
While these changes may help to rec­tify some of the most ostensible conse­quences of biased news, ·structural changes which are limited only to the media, cannot actually establish impar­tiality. Power structures inherent in our systems of government and economics will always give voice and authority to some more than others. 
For example, if the next U.S. presi­dent were to decide invading Mexico were necessary in order to protect the freedom of Americans, an unpartisan media would be one that gave half of its coverage to this patently ridiculous proposal to the perspectives that sup­port it, merely because of the power of the president. And, unfortunately, the result might be half of Americans hon­estly believing that to be patriotic requires one to support the invasion of Mexico. This despairing reality begs several questions. Is responsible or unbiased media even possible, and why is one person -or one ideology that happens to be practiced by people with power -able to set the agenda for what the media will cover and what all Americans will be thinking about? 
Every media outlet-from The New York Times to Fox to our own Observer and Scholastic-must recognize their publications are not just reflecting the news and thoughts of their constituents but also generating the framework through which our campus and nation will discuss issues deemed relevant. Unlike their explicitly-biased counter­parts, such as The Irish Hover and Common Sense, organizations which purport to produce balanced news and commentary are ethically bound to take steps to limit their bias. As such, transforming media establishments into more transparent, publicly-owned and not-for-profit organizations would drastically improve the quality of news and commentary, ensuring the voices and experiences of more Americans are represented in wider social dia­logue. 
Michael Poffenberger is a senior anthropology and peace studies major. His column appears every other Monday. lie can be reached at mpof­fen@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TooAv's STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Eileen Duffy Justin Schuver Maddie Hanna Ann Loughery Do you feel your professors' 
Tricia deGroot Kate Seryak 

political beliefs affect how they 
Viewpoint Scene Justin Spack Christie Boisen conduct themselves in the classroom? Graphics Illustrator Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver. com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"No pessimist ever discovered the secret ofthe stars, or sailed to an uncharted land, or opened a new doorway for the human spirit." 
Helen Keller educator 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, February 7, 2005 page 13 
Debate candidates, not their race 
As I relaxed in Starbucks on Friday, sipping my free trade coffee and scan­ning the latest opinion journalism, hell finally froze over-I agreed with a New York Times editorial. Well, at least part of it. 
The Feb. 4 nditorial  Bill Rlnner  
"The Senate and Mr.  
Gonzales" offers a predictable criticism of the nominee for  A Voice of Reason  
attorney general, his  

role in "in paving the way for the abuse and torture of prisoners by American soldiers and intelligence agents," and the Hepublican advocates of his confir­mation. A third of the way through the editorial, the Times quotes Bepublican Senator Orrin Ilatch. who seizes the 
the color of one's skin should never serve as a buffer from criticism, no matter how tempting it is to win short­term political points. 
Ultimately, I'd prefer the demise of race-based politics, race-bait-ing and other forms of racial division made in the name of empowering one party that claims to advance the aggregate "inter­ests" of an entire ethnicity. During the current round of cabinet appointments, Democrats have retained the higher ground by sticking to their original crit­icisms of the policies advanced by Condoleeza Rice and Alberto Gonzales, and as much as it makes me grind my teeth to admit, the Times is correct to call the race issue "irrelevant here." 
Republicans need to take steps 
opportunity of Democrats reject­
towards creating a world that ing Gonzales to mention that he actually adheres to the ideals 
"loves the Hispanic people," 
cautioning that Hispanic 
Anwricans were "sensing 
there's something unfair 
going on." 
!latch deftly, though unsubtly, plays the race card to allude to the Democratic ten­dency to muster alarming strength to oppose the presi­dent's minority judi­cial nominations, as the refusal to allow Miguel Estrada an up or down vote demonstrated in 2003. At the height of the corn­motion, an inter­nal memo sent between high-ranking l>nmocratic sena­tors suggested that Estrada, consid­crnd well-qualified by the ABA, was "espncially danger­ous" because "he is Latino." Why would Estrada's ethnicity PVPll be an issue, par­ticularly for a party that champions the progress of minorities? 
Tlw entire flap reveals tlw racial politics embod­ied in the rhetoric of both partins makes an utter mockery of sensible debate. Hac1~-baiting is a staple of Dnmocratic campaigning whose cxcess1~s arc now so routine that a new commllrcial portraying a fat corporate­looking Hepublican throwing an inno­cent black man into shackles would scarcely elicit a whimper of opposition from the left side of the aisle. Party leadership naturally thinks strategical­ly, and the black vote is such an essen­tial asset for Democrats that applaud­ing the accomplishments of Clarence Thomas or Thomas Sowell, two promi­rwnt conservative blacks, would be a sign of the apocalypse. 
lnswad of taking the high road and allowing Democrats to implode under tlwir own weight, the new Hepublican tactic is to cry hypocrisy every time a conservative minority encounters less than fawning adoration from the left. To be blunt. they should can it. For evt~ry thoughtful treatise on the impor­tance of creating a society in which judgments of individual merit should be color-blind, the Hepublicans do more damage to themselves when they lower their rhetoric to the level or futile race­baiting. A principled conservative should have the guts to acknowledge 
they promote. On the issue of affirmative action, whose relevance is past its prime, conservatives hope Bush's judicial nominations will sway the tide in their favor and hopefully overturn a number of linchpin social policies 
the Democratic left has successfully imposed. The judi­
cial strategy is no secret, the vast right wing conspir­
acy is much more upfront than many assume. 
However, over­turning such an entrenched policy an~ embracing color blind admis­sions and hiring standards, while a worthy goal, has 
the potential to backfire if we do not first address our 
irrational obsession with racial politics. Hepublican leader­
ship is just as strate­gically minded as its opponents, and recent attempts to paint Democrats as anti­Hispanic (or anti-conser­vative Hispanic) reveals many consider the ethnic group a potential ally for upcoming elections. If main­taining their political power 
remains their paramount goal, then highlighting the detrimental effects of affirmative action stands as an obstacle that could shift the largest growing ethnic group into the Democratic camp. 
Instead, Hepublicans will sit back, cross their fingers and hope the courts let affirmative action expire without their party's reputation suffering collat­eral damage. This scenario may well play out in reality, and one can only hope by the time conservatives start winning these key battles in the culture wars, our culture will consider issues such as diversity at the expense of mer­itocracy a quaint anachronism. 
A post-racial society is more likely to unfold if its chief proponents stop pour­ing gas on the fire by emulating the rhetoric of the party that capitalizes on racial fear-mongering with impunity. 
Bill Rinner is a senior economics major. He can be contacted at wrin­ner@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Revue hits all the 
wrong buttons 
Never until this day have we been ashamed to be members of the Notre Dame community, a community that would endorse and even celebrate a theatrical mon­strosity that has ridiculed the conservative nature of this UniVf~rsity and perverted its Catholic mission. The name of this production has been whispered across cam­pus for weeks, inciting nervous giggles over dining hall tables and titillating the vir­tuous minds of our fellow students. With deep sorrow and piety, we acknowledge the Keenan Revue has again been viewed by thousands ofconsenting adults. 
While neither of us actually attended the Revue this year, we heard it was quite offensive, as we had heard in previous years. The young men of Keenan IIall, in efforts to disguise their true intentions of demeaning men and glorifying premarital sex, claim their production is "satire" or "entertainment." 
Clearly, this cannot be true. The Hevue is unequivocally demeaning to men. The writers for the Hevue have reduced men's worth to nothing but the size of their genitalia, a depiction we find puzzling since the skit<> are oft1~n based on real mnn's actual stories. We heard that this year's Revue featured a superhero named "Large Package Guy." By focusing on only one portion of a man's anatomy, we trivialize the unity of his mind, body and transcendent spirit. We suggest an altemativc to speaking freely and openly about human nature-by ignoring the very presence of genitalia and male sexuality, we may gain a deeper understanding of what it means to be a man. 
The Bevue goes one step further in promoting unchaste sexual behavior. tread­ing on bestiality and ma.<>turbation. Filth that has been rPlegawd to tlw rPcnsses or the Internet and cable television should not bP paraded around on the sacn~d stage. Let us issue a gentle reminder that Notre Dame, as a private university, is not legally obliged to condone fringo rhetoric and vulgarity. 
We cannot stand idly by while this piece of performance art is being displayed to all of our friends who consented to view it and may even agree with the Hevue's underlying ideology. We must unite and purge Saint Mary's campus of this plague and threat to the Catholic nature of Our Lady's University. 
Paul Kellner senior Sr. Edward's Hall Maureen Ritchey 
senwr 
Farley Hall Feb. 6 

U-WIRE 





Voting taken for granted in U.S. 
I voted in the last election. I know, whoopee for me. Preceding the election, much was made of the fact that the youth of America would be the crucial turning point for the eventual 
leah

outcome. 
Kind

Different organi­
zations mobilized 
Northern Star 

specifically in an 
Northern 

attempt to urge, 
Illinois 

cajole, bribe and 
University

guilt that demo­graphic into acknowledging its share of the responsibility. Overall numbers exceeded the expectations of many Americans, with 59.6 per­cent of eligible voters hitting the polls, the highest turnout since 1968. And yet, numbers for the crucial 18 to 25 demographic were not as high as anticipated. llmm, those kids must have been pooped after casting more than 65 million votes for Fox's "American Idol." Ahh, democracy in action. 
Why is this an issue now, with months between us and the 2004 election, and only the lingering scent of a few thousand stale inau­gural tacos left hovering in the air? Many of us who live in the United States take our comforts and free­doms for granted. And I know I'm guilty of this as well. It is difficult to live in a society of relative peace and free will and be constantly aware of how good we have it. 
Yet, I can't escape the inherent 
irony of the situation. Thn Iraqi people were ecstatic for the oppor­tunity to vote in a democratic elec­tion because it had been denied to them for 50 years. The Iraqi elec­tions signaled a potential end to the dictatorship they had been living under. It served as an opportunity to return to a previous era where they were able to engage in open political discourses. llerc. Iraqi­Americans traveled from far and wide to polling places to cast their votes. These people wer·e excited and joyful about the opportunity. 1 can't recall the last time sponta­neous singing and dancing broke out by a polling placn. Surn, I'm ecstatic that so many eligible votPrs participated in our Plnrtion. but will it last'? 
Bruce Springsteen was not callnd upon to sing "Born in 1-B-A-Q" in a free concnrt in Baghdad. Michael Moore did not march his "SlackPr Uprising Tour" through the city of Karbala. And yet the Iraqi people, flawed elections aside, still brav!'d life and limb to vPnture out and vote. Kind of makes you think. 
This column originally appeared in the Feb. 4 edition of Northern Star, the daily publication at North£!rn Jllinois University. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of t.he author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENEpage 14 
Monday, February 7, 2005 
[such as] specializing in costumes. Or our bikes from one campus to the· together. We worked as actors togeth­thought it wasBy RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA if we took stage management or other. We did a lot of bicycling back er for a while. I had always wanted to film. It was reall 
Assistant Scene Editor 

scene -there were certain require­and forth between the two campuses be a producer, like an actor/manager cally but just d 
ments for me as a theatre major that and since that's where our love and from the 19th century. I wanted to audiences. Som 
Editor's Note: Due to a production I had to take -that really helped me creativity started, that's where we sort of single-handedly revive that may have esche error. this spread ran incorrectly on fully understand not only cast mem­[decided to] trade vows. We've genre. So what I tried to do was pro­as being a great Wednesday. ber and crew and their functions. enjoyed going back over the years duce and act and I did that for a was quite disapp 
And all that helps the scene flow well when we were working in Chicago while in the theatre. But after a out. 
If "The Incredibles" felt like a and he's more of a producer now because the head of the department, while, I got more interested in pro­down-to-earth, family film of epic than an actor, but we both produced Dr. Bane, invited us back to listen in ducing and managing than I did in Pam, how did yoproportions, it should come as no at one point or another. It's nice to. and critique the URTA auditions acting. So gradually, the acting sort of with Pixar and surprise that two of the key contribu­have an appreciation and a knowl­every year. So we got to go back and fell away. I ran theatres in Chicago rience been like tors to the Pixar film share many sim­edge about what everybody does and see the new facilities, [such as] and Pam and I produced together, did ilarities that are echoed in some work in Chicago and little bit in P: My main c, the film's tight-knit family. New York. I've been running a the­challenge, and ~ 
John Walker, a graduate atre called Victory Gardens up in raise these two of Notre Dame, and Chicago and Pam was appearing in a while we were Pamela Walker, a gradu­play there. She came home one night ranks in the the ate of Saint Mary's, met and said that an agent from Los moving beyondwhile working on summer Angeles had seen her work and if she opportunity to theatre productions here came out to Los Angeles, he'd take which I did. An at Notre Dame. After her as a client. So she said, "Guess was try to see if working in various theater what, honey, I'm going to L.A." lel movements a productions in Chicago [Laughs] I said, "Wait a minute! You running Victoryand New York and moving go to L.A., we've got these two kids was able to teac to Los Angeles, they found and we have a job here." But she dren came th a home at Pixar, one of said, "We need to go to L.A." So she because parentinthe most prestigious ani­went to Los Angeles and signed with could easily take mation studios in the this agent and I "Well, she'll time and commi 
world. John is the produc­go out there s and got to Pixar, we er of "The fncredibles," then come and high school in s while Pamela, a native of ask when ·.. But and I was workin South Bend, teaches at tion for my worl Pixar University, the stu­rolling in my fav dio's educational arm. this opportun 
California, so for 
If we could start off with 
and half · ~ 
a few Notre Dame and I , Saint Mary's questions, 
w··'" 
what dorms did you both live in? 
J: I lived in Grace [llall]. 

P: I was at Saint Mary's in Le Mans Hall. 
What were your fondest memories at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, respectively? 
J: One of the best times for me, and maybe for Pam too, was that we used to do summer the­atre. We'd stay at Notre Dame during the summer and do four or five plays. The company was a sum­mer stock company so wl'l hung out together, ate together and worked Pamela Walker attended Saint Mary's College and majored in theatre. She has together. It was a great worked as an actress most of her life and now teaches at the Pixar University. experience. 
P: Ditto 

we got to do that in the theatre Washington Hall and the black box How have your educations at the department, which I thought was theatre upstairs, and then have din­two institutions prepared you for invaluable. ner with him at Morris Inn. That was 
the industry and your respective I read that you were married at special. professions? Notre Dame, which is almost a true Domer's dream. What was that Now, I'd like to move on to your 
J: We both were pretty active in the experience like? lives since leaving Notre Dame and theatre department. Although I was Saint Mary's. For John, what led an English major, so I didn't actually P: Yes, we did. We got married at you to become a producer in major in that. But I had something to the church on campus. When we first Hollywood? And for Pam, your job at do with all of the plays. I didn't started our professional roles, my Pixar University? always get cast in them but I would first role was an equity debut in sign work somehow on them as much as I language in "Children of a Lesser J: I had worked in the theatre once 
could. It got me, at least, thinking God." [John] proposed in this beauti­we had gotten out of Notre Dame. about doing it professionally and it ful theatre in the northern woods of Pam went to acting school in New 
got me over the hump of realizing Wisconsin on a lake in front of 500 York and I went to an acting school in that people could make their livings customers on stage -in sign lan­San Francisco -the ACT, the We didn't have any time to make working in the arts. That didn't seem guage. So we had a wonderful American Conservatory Theater. And ated. We made in about two possible when I got to Notre Dame. engagement and we decided to go after we had finished a couple of years, which is really quick for 
an 

P: It was great in summer theatre back down to the campus where we years in those plays, I had a job animated film. It was a lot of pres­because we got to work cooperatively enjoyed so many wonderful times in working in a summer stock theatre as · sure and it was a big disappointment with other people who were students, the theatre together, you know, riding an actor and Pam and I went there because we had worked so hard and 



THE OBSERVER 



CENE 
page 15 

make it &11 the wa.y to Pixar Btudioa 
.ally a wondnrful they're not meant to be. Thnre's a 11-rocnivnd c:riti-flow to things that feels like this is the 
n't. c:onniH~t with right movement, not to sound too L.A. f tho marhting or anything. it. I rnnwmher it 
Lhor of lovo, whieh John, what experiences did you 
1ting whon it carne gain from working on "The lncredlbles" that you'll cherish while producing the film? 
become Involved 

has your expe­J: It was the first time I had the ng there? produo~r job on a big movie. It took a long time and there were hundreds nr objoetivc and and hundreds of pPople working on both of us, was to it. I think that one of the most fulliii­Hidnrful daughtnrs ing, interesting and most fun parts d of dirnbing the was when we went to Los Angnles to . in Chicago and scorn thn tilrn. We had a 105-pieee , whieh was the ·orchestra around the MGM sound rk in Los Angnles stage, where they did all those fabu­onen of IJIY goals lous musicals in the 1<J40s. And there eould havA paral-was our movie pretty much done and whnn I.Johnl was there was an unbelievably gifted rdnns in(~, o, I orchestra and conductor and com­thnrn ··• Uu• ~~·"I-poser doing the score for our movie. n a I, And I thought that was really exdting amt ~se careers and wonderful. I loved the score from 00 r>Orcnnt of your "The lncTndibles" and for lcomposerl nwnt. So wlwn he Michael Giacchino, it was his first 1ad two children in fnature seore. I think that that was a 111thnrn California r~tlly great experience-just seeing ~ and getting attcm-. tb"' movie come together because it's and lhl' bttit· W{if"''·a very slow process in animation and 1r. But then ho got you don't see much of what the ty in northorn movie's going to be until right near hren 01 .9:( the four the end. And these shots would lin ish 
· n malw "Tiw up and they would just look spectacu­lt't oat lllllff'irplarw lar, much, much better than what we ~o fr'yiip north to had ever hoped and thought we could ~idn't have to takc~ do. To st~e them look so good was a 1chool and l could really fun l'xpericnce. Vt~ntually, till' last 1s thP most dillicult On a more off-beat note, who were 
to ultimately start your favorb,characters In "The ~s down hoc~auso I lncredlbft!i," pfcklng from the large \Ill to two tc\P.nagtl cast of colorful indlvlduals? I roally in tlw plan. ' Uwrc·. I thought P: Ifthink IJ'sh is my fuvorite'and I his has moved nw think I h<,lYII som(~ of his t'~'nergy. tl of working in td­II.aughsl tl in tlw film capital J!i lik(•d Violet. I h<lvtl (wo daugh­
wondnrod what I tHrs and I liked lv!W"She came into . startml starring in her own as .a wnlllg woman in tho tty about Georgia movi(l, ~e seen tbat happen rNI StiBglit:t. und (' wil.h two daughters as well, so 
ri-> ago in a big thn­shes my favorite. t and t.hnn did it in . P.L\nd just for your information, mm. lt had some tTie~VI> (of "The lncrediblcs"l is
~ 
11 ud . -out going to havn a little short on it about lt.ir.u.l · with tlw baby. Jack-Jaek. And it's just hys­was tcrkal. snlcl 
On the subject of the "lncredlbles" OVD, scheduled to be released on March 115, John, you were a contrib­utor to'ithe director/producer com­
...._mentary track, along with Brad How was that experience? 

bizarre. You sit there at l'ixar for four and a half liznd that to . completely exhaust­fatn, I had watching the movie lm and writ­t each other, going to produce a mber about this?" dirocting us mber is that it was I've writtcm a and we had to talk in and usn the a really surreal nd crew and experience •.,.'""'ug the movie and g to whatever talking Brad. We had a 
y've been very couple of we started ­and it's been a it might've ! (Laughs] But not be in separate there's a lot t stuff on (the 
our things. It DVDJ. oving in a fateful 're not bumping Pam, Plxar has been associated to do things how with a very high value for their 
films, as both critically acclaimed and very profitable films. How did working at Plxar Influence you and where your career goes from here? 
P: Well, I'm thrilled that they've been so hospitable. I just kind of feel like I'm putting in the universe my own goals as an actor that you don't always get to say when you do other people's scripts. Even when I do other people's scripts, I'm working for like minds. Every character I play kind of gets under my skin and becomes a 
part of who I am. This Georgia O'Keeffe vehicle that I've had in my back pocket for all these years seems like something I've been wanting to say. And so I think the definitive about ()'Keeffe has not been done and I've got that goal set in my mind, to try to make that happen. Things are unfolding as they should, whether it's with Pixar or with somebody else. We're getting introduced to people that we haven't been able to meet before, which is very exciting. And I feel that for LJohn] and I, with the foundation of our relationship at Notre Dame was through our work and that feels right to me, that direc­tion. I don't want to split my focus so much that the relationship falls apart, as easily happens in this business. So you have to balance everything prop­erly and Pixar has been a great place to be as a foundation. John, could you shed some light on what your future projects might be? 
J: I'm not sure what it's going to be. Brad and I are talking about doing another film together. He's got a lot of ideas so we're sort of waiting for him to land on one and then cheek with Pixar if they'd like to do it. 
I'm sure a lot of people have already asked about a possible sequel for "The lncredlbles," which would make a terrific film If done 

well. 
J: That's the trick -doing it well and coming up with a good idea. We haven't done that yet. A couple things have to happen first. One would be to have a great idea and the second would be to reassemble the creative team. 
What skills have allowed you both to succeed In your professions and in such a difficult Industry? 
J: I feel like I'm about as skilled as the next person. I think that you just have to keep persevering. There's lots and lots of competition in the movie business and the theatre business and arts in general. It's not some­thing that usually comes easily or quickly. If you hang in there long enough, most of the other people quit. !Laughs) So I think pnrsever­ance is probably the best thing you can do. 
P: Perseverance, that's a good one. Then~·s a fair amount of rejnction, of eoursn, so you just have to build your own philosophy. And I know I find balance through working out and meditation and I've writtnn in jour­nals and I've got volumes and vol­umes ofjournals. I feel like aetors are really misunderstood. So you just have to kind of braee yourself against the slings and arrows of a difl1cult 
business. But if you feel like thorn's something you have to communicate, in the stage or whatever ern­alive outlot you find, you have to just do it. Theatre has been my crnativn out­let. Sometimns I think if I worn a paintnr, it would be nasier. !Laughs! Somn oth.er way that I could eommunieatn, but il's what. I do. 
Finally, what do you both feel have been the most satisfying accomplish­ments over the course of your careers? 
P: Wnll, one of the high­lights for me was certainly my professional debut with IJohn ( in "Sign Language" and llw proposal and all the stuff I told you about. But we also produc~nd a two-person play cal11~d Snamarks that did I·eally wnll and got some awards and it was a rc~al highlight. 
J: Wn produeiid a show ofT-Broadway tognt.her and that was a big aceomplish­ment, something that I'vp always benn really proud ol". Sitting in the audienee when "Thn lncrndiblns" preminrnd and wlwn we had a big party at Pixar for about 1,800 pnopln -that was a rnally groat night. And Pam and I w1~nt around the world with the dirnetor and his wifn, pro­moting thn film. That was 
amazing to see our ehar­actcrs and our movie everywhere we went, from London to Tokyo to Sydney. 

P: That's quito an accomplishment becausH these last throe or four months have been non-stop. First, going around the world. As a student, I went to Home through the Saint Mary's program and I talked about taking IJohnl there in 25 ymtrs. So if we nHver get to go again, last November we made it to Venice and Home in quite style because we were driven around and getting privatn tours, hanging out with Peter .Jaekson in New Zealand. It was an amazing trip for live weeks and then we've got all thHsc award shows. So today is actually the first day of normalcy since last October so it feels like quite an accomplishment to survive it all. But we're kind of tired. !Laughs] 
Conta<:t Rama Gotturnukkala at rgotturnu@nd.edu 
THE 0BSERV'ER 



CENE
page 16 
Monday, February 7, 2005 
BooK REVIEW 

A guide to finding the one that is .Iinto you' 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Cross-stitched pillows and our moth­ers have always tried to communicate that. "Actions speak louder than words." Well now there is a new voice screaming that message into the head of every woman -the voice of Greg Behrendt, co-author of "He's Just Not That Into You." Behrendt and Liz Tuccillo have composed "The No­Excuses Truth to Understanding Guys" in an attempt to improve the life of every woman in the world who is stuck in a relationship where she is underap­preciated, abused and simply unwilling to recognize that if he is treating her in those ways, her significant other is just simply "not that into" her. 
The entire precept of the book began in the writing room for the HBO series, "Sex and the City." Tuccillo is a writer for the show, and Behrendt is a con­sultant who would come in from time to time to offer a new perspective on the direction that some of the shows storylines were taking. While dis­cussing the new and un-attentive boyfriend of one of the female writers, the other female writers were offering a plethora of excuses for the seemingly flaky behavior of this would-be boyfriend. 
The woman asked Behrendt what he thought and Behrendt told her, "He's just not that into you." 
Thus it began. 
The concept was quickly written into a "Sex and the City" episode where the concept is introduced by one of Carrie's boyfriends to Miranda while she is ana­lyzing the behavior of the man she is dating. The idea took off and has now become a highly publicized how-to guide to dating. 

The basic principle is simple. Guys are not as dumb as women would often like to believe they are. They do know how to use a telephone, and the reason he is not calling you is not in the letters. Behrendt answers each letter with a letter addressed to the nicknames for the excuse girl he cre­ates such as, "Dear Pillow Talk," "Dear Not Listening" and "Dear Let's Get Physical." 
Behrendt's responses are often hilari­ously obvious and reflect the choices 
because he, ''He's Just Not That Into that many women "just dropped have been faced
You"

my cell phone in with in the dating the ocean and I 
world. The letters lost your num­are followeu by a ber," but it is paragraph called because he's, "It's So Simple" "just n0 t that Writers: Greg Behrendt and Liz Tuccillo wherein the points 
into you." Behrendt explains that, "When a guy is into you, he lets you know it. He calls, he shows up, he wants to meet your friends, he can't keep his eyes or hands off you." The simple truth is, according to Behrendt and Tuccillo, if a guy is into a woman, she will know it. She won't need to spend time obsessing about his every action or inaction because the control will be hers when she simply walks away from a guy that is, "just not that into her." 
Tuccillo and Behrendt set up the book in a very interesting and enter­taining fashion. Sixteen chapters cover any variety of dating issue from, "He's Just Not That Into You If He's Not Dating You" to "He's Just Not That Into You If He's a Selflsh Jerk, a Bully. or a Really Big Freak." Each chapter begins with an introduction to the subject at hand by Behrendt and is followed by fabricated letters from women about the different "excuses" that women tend to make in the situations created 
in Behrendt's argument on the particular subject are summed up. 
This is followed by a section called, "Here's Why This One is Hard" by Tuccillo where she empathizes with the female readers of the book and the excuses that they have made; however, in the end she always agrees Behrendt is ultimately correct in his assertion no matter how hard that is to swallow. 
Then a story about a real life exam­ple called "This is What it Should Look Like" by Behrendt or Tuccillo is shared, followed by a "Greg, I get it!" section where "women" share their tales of success in implementing Behrendt's plan on the subject. "If You Don't Believe Greg," a grouping of admittedly unscientific polls from friends of the authors about the subjects reveals things like. "100% of men polled said that when they broke up with someone, it always meant that they didn't want to go out with them anymore." 
Every chapter ends with a list of "What You Should Have Learned in 
This Chapter" that covers the main points of the letters and reflections fol­lowed by, "Our Super-Good Heally Helpful Workbook" because "Hey, what's a self-help tome without at workbook?" The workbooks are much more humorous than helpful. For instance, in the chapter about men cheating on women the workbook begins, "Here arc our five suggestions on what your man could have don~ if he was unsatisfied in your relationship. (You'll notice, none of them include sleeping with someone else.)" Each chapter offers new questions as to why women allow themselves to be hurt and obsessive when all they have to decide is that "He's Just Not That Into You." 
Funny throughout, and at times hilarious, "He's Just Not That Into You" is a must read for any woman who is active in the dating world. Initially, the concept seems harsh, but. as is explained by Behrendt and Tuccillo throughout the book, a woman realiz­ing this is actually her taking back the power in the relationship. 
No more waiting by the phone, or waiting for "Mr. Right" to appear in the guy women are currently dating; this book is the voice of a liberated move­ment that leaves the woman with the power to make a choice not to waste her time on the men the don't appreci­ate her, thus giving her more time to find the one that will forever. 
Hilariously honest and reflective of the excuses women do make, "He's Just Not That Into You" is a book any dating girl cannot afford to go without. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

Monday, February 7, 2005 

The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS page 17 
SUPER BowL XXXIX 

Pats could run, Eagles couldn't 
New England's multi­dimensional offense helps champs in victory 
Associated Press 
.IJ\CKSONVILI.E, l'la. -Nnw I·:ngland's third Super Bowl vie­tory in four yoars came down to tlw most basic of' football 
ruins: Tlw Patriots could  run  
tho ball and  mado  suro  tlw  
Hagins couldn't.  

So Nnw l•:ngland won 24-21, ostablishnd itsnJJ' as tlw team of' tlw century (short as it is) and put Bill Bolkhick ahead of oven tho gn~at Vince Lombardi with a 10-1 romrd. 
Lombardi would have lov11d it, nsptH~ially the 66-yard drive late in tho third quarter and oarly in tho fourth that brok11 a 14-all tin. Thirty-l'our of' thosP yards Wflre on tho ground induding tho final 2, by Corny Dillon. 
What made that drive even morn important was that it answnrnd a Philadelphia toueh­down that had tied the gamfl and semnfld to give the Eagles tho momentum. 

The gamfl also demonstrated the other charaetoristie that has made the Patriots into what passes for a dynasty in this day of salary eap-enforeed parity: big plays from all kinds of playtlrs. 
As usual, onn was Tedy Bruschi, setting the tone for the game with a sack on Philadelphia's first possession, llwn coming up with an inter­ception that 1mded a fourth­quarter drive one play after a 36-yard pass 1~ompletion to Terrnll Owens, who performed bntter than expeetnd in his first game back aftnr a severe ankle injury. 
But there also was backup running back Kevin Faulk, who had two rushes for 20 yards in that big drive and also went 14 yards to the Philadelphia 2 with a screen pass that set up Corey Dillon's 2-yard touch­down run. 
Plus Deion Branch, who the Eagles couldn't cover, especial­ly when the Patriots needed big yardage. 
Branch wins Super Bowl MVP 
Associated Press 
.JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -Take that, T.O. Deion Branch man­aged to outshine .Terrell Owens on football's biggest stage. 
And that was no small feat in this Supnr Bowl. 
The leader of' New England's unheralded receiving eorps, Branch lind a Super Bowl record with 11 catehes, aceounting for 
1:n yards Sunday night in a 24­21 victory over Philadelphia that gave the Patriots their third ehampionship in f(JUr years. 
While Branch didn't make it to the end zone, he played a role in all four scoring drives. The biggest catch might have been the last one -a leaping 19­yarder ovnr the middle that set up Adam Vinatieri's 22-yard field goal early in the fourth quarter. 
Braneh leaped oil' the turf and defiantly signaled a first down, the sort of' brazen move that Owens is known for. New England pushed its lead to 10 points, enough to hold off the Eagles. 
And when it was done, Branch was named the MVP. 
Philadelphia's All-Pro receiver had a remarkable game, too, defying his doctor by playing just 6 1/2 weeks after surgory. With a metal plate and two screws in his right ankle, Owens somehow had nine catches for 122 yards. 


But Branch was even bettor, tying the grnat Jerry Bien (and Cincinnati's Dan Hoss) for catch­es in a Super Bowl. 
While most of the attention was on Owens in the days lead­ing up to the big game, Branch had a nice, quiet week in Jacksonville -not drawing nearly as much attontion from tho modia horde. 
1\voryone knows him now. 
Branch canw up hugo on a tone-setting drive to start the sceond half, making fiJUr catdws for 71 yards. Linebackor Mike Vrabel finished it oil' with a 2­yard touchdown catch, but Braneh did all tho hnavy lifting. 


Eagles' All-Pro receiver catches nine passes for 122 yards in team's loss 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -Terrell Owens was a go. The rest of the Philadelphia Eagles didn't quite match his stellar performance. 
The Eagles' All-Pro receiver caught nine passes for 122 yards, but Philadelphia lost 24­21 to the New England Patriots in the Super Bowl on Sunday night. 
Owens defied his doctor's advice and was in the starting lineup just 6 1/2 weeks after ankle surgery. 
'Hight from the start, he was no decoy. 
Owens caught a 7-yard pass 


Owens proves to be a factor 
. ----·--·-·­

===~--~~====~-~·~-~~===============~========================~~~============================~~============~============ 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: lpod white with black case 15GB at Saint Mary s January 29. Has my only copies of my semester in Australia pictures. REWARD. Please return to ND or SMC security. 


WANTED 
PART·TIME SALESPERSON. EARNINGS UP TO $1000/WK. KNOWLEDGE OF PAINTBALL HELPFUL. 315-7275. START ASAP. 

FoR SALE 

One bedroom condo near UND. Appliances $72,000 280·8160 Kim Kollar 

FoR RENT 

COLLEGE PARK CON DOMINI· UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY 235· 7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2·5-7-8 BED· ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT 
NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. 
ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006· 2007 SCHOOL YEAR· 2·3·4·5·6·7· 8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES 
GOING QUICK. 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 
574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032. 
8-bdrm house close to ND.Great area.2773097 

on Philadelphia's sncond play ­his first action since he sevnrely sprained his ankle and brokn his leg in a game against Dallas on Doe. 19. 
lie had a 30-yard eatch-and­run later in the first quarter, sot­ling up a first down at tho Patriots 8, which the Eagles failed to turn into points. Al'tor that catch, the flamboyant Owens flapped his arms along the sideline. 
Owens also had a 36-yard reeeption in the fourth quarter, but didn't catch any of' Donovan McNabb's three touchdown passes. 
Owens was the target on McNabb's incomplete pass that started the game. and he hauled in a 9-yard reception on the sec­ond possession. 
Owens appeared to have no trouble running his patterns, 
gaining snvnml yards afler his catchns. lie seemed out of' brnath 11arly on whnn lw went to the sideline, but didn't have to sit out plays. 

lin didn't have any rnceptions in the second quartnr as McNabb sprnad the ball around and had bnttnr success moving the ommsn, but had two catdws during Philadelphia's game-tying seoring drive in the third quartnr and six total in the sneond half'. 
Two days after thn Eagles won the NFC ehampionship game, Dr. Mark Mynrson, the surgoon who opnrated on Owens' right ankle in Dncnmb1~r. said hn wouldn't clear him to play against thn Patriots. 
But Ownns insistod lw would be in thn lirH~up -not just standing on thn sidelinn leading cheers as he did in the NFC title game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3\>.m. at the Notre Dame ollie~. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must he prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing relunds. 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 611/05.·Aiso very nice 3-bdrm avail· able NOW. 
Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site park· ing. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229·3659 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005·2006 Academic year · Available June 1,2005 2 Bedrooms­2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System. 
Fully Furnished (574)233-7373 or Salvaty@earthlink.net 
Great homes ideal for 3-6 stu­dents. Close to t\ID.Nice area. 2773097 
5 bdrm on ND Ave available 05-06. 1000/mo. 
email ndhouses@ yahoo.com 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for 2005-06 school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. 
Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house. surrounded by other student housing. 
Laundrpmat next door ( drycleaning also), basement available for stor­age of bicycles, lugage. trunks, etc., new furnace and central air,new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining,free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 
2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. 1­car garage,close to ND. $850/mo. 
Call 574-329-0838. Avail.now. 
Spotless Apartments Apartment Cleaning SPECIAL RATES FOR STUDENTS. Emergency Weekend Cleaning Available. Call or Email for FREE Estimate Spotlessapartments@ comcast.net 574·968·3670 
PERSONAL 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica. Acapulco, Nassau $4991 Award 
Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­6386 
1994 ND grads hoping to adopt. Please see ParentProfiles.com for more info (Arizona/Michael & Kathryn). 

~-------------------------------------------------­





OUND THE NATION 

Trackwlre Top 25 Women's Track & Field 
projected 
team  ineet points  
1  Tennessee  49  
2  LSU  46  
3  Stanford  36  
4  Florida  35  
5  Texas  31  
5  BYU  31  
7  Michigan  30  
7  South Carolina  30  
9  UCLA  23  
9  Miami  23  
11  Kansas State  20  
12  NOTRE DAME  18  
13  Arizona State  17  
13  North Carolina  17  
15  Villanova  16  
16  Nebraska  15  
17  Cal Poly  14  
18  Georgia Tech  13  
19  Florida State  11  
20  Georgia  9  
20  Colorado State  9  
20  Pittsburgh  9  
20  Baylor  9  
20  Clemson  9  
25  Washington  8  
25 25  Arizona Cal  8 8  ..  
25  Northern Arizona  8  
25  Penn State  8  
25  Mississippi  8  
25  Southern Illinois  8  

Trackwire Top 25 Men's Track & Field 
projected team meet points 
1 Arkansas 73 2 Micbigan 40 3 Indiana 32 4 Texas 28 4 Wisconsin 28 6 florida 27 1 lSU 26 6 florida State 23 9 Arizona 20 9 Texas Tech 20 11 UCLA 18 11 Colorado State 18 13 Tennessee 11 14 BYU 16 14 Oregon 16 16' Stanford 15 16 Arizona State 15 16 Auburn 15 19 Okfaboma 14 20 Baylor 13 20 usc 13 22 Kansas Stale 12 22 Mississippi 12 22 East CaroHna 12 25 Nebraska 11 25 Virginia Tech 11 
Central College Hockey Association 
team  conference  overall  
Michigan  17-3·2  20·7-3  
Ohio State  17-4·1  20·7-3  
Nebraska-Omaha  11·8-a:  15·10·3  
Norlbern Michigan  11·7-a:  13·9·5  
Bowling Green  10·7-3  13·9·4  
Alaska fairbanks  8·10·3  9-11·3  
Miami (Ohio)  8·11·3  12·14-4  
Michigan Slate  8·9·3  13·12·4  
lake Superior  6·9·5  7·15•6  
Western Michigan  6-13·1  "11-14·1  
Ferris State  4-14·4  9-17-4  
NOTRE DAME  3·14-5  5·19·6  


around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Connecticut at Syracuse, 7 p.m., ESPN Oklahoma at Oklahoma State, 9 p.m., ESPN 
SUPER BowL XXXIX 


Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla.--Dynasties don't have to be perfect or pretty. They just have to win ---like the New England Patriots. 
The Patriots won their third Super Bowl in four years with a dominant second half Sunday night, wearing down the Philadelphia Eagles 24-21. 
It wasn't overpowering, and at times it was downright ugly. But it was more than enough to match the Dallas Cowboys' run of the 1990s and certify the Patriots of Bill Belichick and Tom Brady as the NFL's latest dynasty. 
"To me this trophy belongs to these players," Belichick said. "They met all comers this year, a very challenging year. We're thrilled to win. These 
IN BRIEF 
Parry wins playoff; Els falls 
short of fourth m a row 
MELBOURNE, Australia Australia's Craig Parry ended Ernie Els' three-year hold on the Heineken Classic title Sunday, holing a 12-foot birdie putt on the fourth hole of a playoff with countryman Nick O'Hern. 
After Parry made his birdie putt on the fourth extra hole, O'Hern missed a 10-foot birdie attempt to end the tournament at historic Royal Melbourne. 
Parry made par-saving putts on the first three playoff holes ---the 18th twice and then the 17th, while O'Hern helped keep the playoff going by missing birdie putts inside 10 feet on the two opening holes. 
Parry closed with a 1-under 70 to match O'Hern (71) at 14-under 270. 
Parry's most memorable playoff performance came last March in the Ford Championship at Dora] in Florida when he holed a 6-iron shot from 176 yards for an eagle to win. 

players played great all year, their best in the big games and they deserve it, they really deserve it." 
With MVP Deion Branch tying a Super Bowl record for receptions with 11, Brady efficiently running the offense and Rodney Harrison spark· ing a smothering defense, the Patriots (17 -2) won their ninth successive postseason game. That ties the record of Vince Lombardi's Packers of the 1960s, and there's hardly any better company a team can keep. 
The difference once again was an Adam Vinatieri field goal, this one a 22-yarder with 8:40 to go. New England won its other two Super Bowls by the margin of Vinatieri's last-second kicks. 
Philadelphia {15-4) got the ball back at its 4 with 46 seconds remaining. It 
Tigers land Ordonez one 
year after Rodriguez 
DETROIT ---For the second straight year, the Detroit Tigers added a marquee player about two weeks before the start of spring training. 
First, Ivan Rodriguez. Now, Magglio Ordonez. 
"Most of us go into spring training excited, but when you sigh a big-time guy like Ordonez, it makes you even more excited," Tigers pitcher Jason Johnson said Sunday in a telephone interview from Tampa, Fla. 
"It's really going to boost our morale. I can't wait to get started." 
After signing in 2004, Rodriguez helped the Tigers win 72 games. That was a 29-win improvement from the previous season, the second-best turnaround in the AL since it expand­ed in 1961. 
With Ordonez's bat in the middle of the lineup, Detroit figures to improve its chances of competing in the AL Central, expected to be among the was hardly enough time and far too much territory to cover against such a formidable foe. 
Harrison got his second intercep­tion with 9 seconds remaining to end it. 
Playing before a sea of mostly green jerseys in the crowd of 78,125, the Patriots made sure Philadelphia would not get its first pro sports title since 1983. Indeed, it's been 45 years since the Eagles won the NFL crown. And even though they made it to the Super Bowl for the first time in 24 seasons ---after three straight confer­ence championship flops ---their sea­son still ended in disappointment. 
"We came up just short -too many turnovers ---and against such a tough football team you can't do that," coach Andy Heid said. 
weaker divisions in the major leagues this year. DavenJ>ort loses at Pan Pacific Open to Sharapova 
TOKYO ---Reigning Wimbledon champion Maria Sharapova beat No. 1 Lindsay Davenport 6-1, 3-6, 7-6 (5) in the Pan Pacific Open final Sunday and will move up to a career-high third in the WTA Tour rankings. 
Sharapova prevented Davenport from winning a record fifth title at the indoor tournament. Davenport, who lost to Serena Williams in the Australian Open final last weekend, hit 13 aces against Sharapova but needed a medical timeout after the first set because of a sore left thigh. 
''I'm very happy to have won," said Sharapova, who had nine aces. "Lindsay played an amazing match and it all came down to the tiebreak­er, so obviously it was a very tough match." 
She will move past Amelie Mauresmo in Monday's new rankings and jump from No. 4 to No. 3. 
Monday, February 7, 2005 

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


THEATRE 
Othello 
by William Shakespeare 
Featuring AcroRs fROM THE LoNDON STAGE 
leighton Concert Hall 
Friday, February 11 at 7:30p.m. 
Saturday, February 12 at 7:30 p.m. 
Tickets $18, $16 faculty/staff, $16 seniors, $12 all students 
The Laramie Proiect 
by Moises Kaufman Directed by Anton Juan Decio Mainstoge Theatre 
February 22-March 3 
The Laramie Project is part of Spring ArtsFest: Tolerance and Reconciliation 
Tickets: $12, $10faculty/staff, $10 seniors, $8 all students 
F L M 
Shylock 
written and performed by Gareth Armstrong 
Leighton Concert Hall 
Wednesday, February 23 at 8 p.m. 
Shylock is port of Spring Artsfest: 
Tolerance and Reconciliation 
Tickets: $18, $16 faculty/staff, $ 14 seniors, $12 all students 
Dead Man Walking 
by Tim Robbins Directed by Siiri Scott and Jay Skelton Philbin Studio Theatre 
February 26 -March 2 
Dead Man Walking is part of Spring ArtsFest: Tolerance and Reconciliation 
Tickets: $12,$10 faculty/staff, $1 0 seniors, $8 all students 
M U S C 

ND Jazz Band, ND Symphonic Band, and ND Symphonic Winds 
Leighton Concert Hall Saturday, February 19 at 2:30 p.m. 
This performance is open to the public and free, but tickets must be obtained through the DeBartolo ticket office. 
Jen Chapin in Concert 
leighton Concert Hall Sunday, February 20 at 7 p.m. Tickets: $15, $12 faculty/staff, $11 seniors, $8 all students 
Jen Chopin in Concert is part of Spring ArtsFest: Tolerance and Reconciliation 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra with ND Choruses and Faculty Soloists 
leighton Concert Hall Saturday, February 26 ot 8 p.m. Mozart's Overture to Die Zauberflote Beethoven's Triple Concerto Hayden's Harmoniemesse Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students 
Joan Lippincott -Organ Recital 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Sunday, February 27 at 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. Tickets: $10, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $3 all students 
Simon Shaheen and Qantara 
Leighton Concert Hall Sunday, February 27 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
Simon Shaheen and Quontora are part of Spring ArtsFesf: Tolerance and Reconciliation 
Fleur de Lys 

Disembodied Voices: Music of Women in 17th Century Italian Convents and Academies 
Friday, February 18 at 7:30 p.m. Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Tickets: $10, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $3 all students 
This concert features Danielle Svonovec, soprano; Mary Anne Ballard, viola do gamba; and Darlene Colello, harpsichord. 
THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
THE NOTRE DAME QUEER FILM FESTIVAL 
AT THE BROWNING CINEMA 

All films this week will be free screenings. 
Tickets ore available Monday before the screenings. For more information about these films, please visit http:/ /perlormingarts.nd.edu. 
Saved! (2004) 
Thursday, February I 0 at 7:30 only 
In Good Conscience (2004) 
Friday, February 11 at 3:30 only 
Gay Pioneers (2004) 
friday, February 11 of 7:30p.m. only 
Angels in America: Part I {2003) 
Friday, February 11 at 9:45 p.m. only 
Angels in America: Part II (2003} 
Saturday, February 12 at 2 p.m. only 
Love! Valour! Compassion! ( 1997) 
Saturday, February 12 at 7:30 p.m. only 


a voice 
Jen Chapin 
a heart 
a conscience 
February 20 at 7 p.m. 

Leighton Concert Hall 
Tickets: $1 5. $1 2 fac/staff, $11 seniors, $8 all students 

More event information available at hltp://performingarts.nd.edu 
Discounted tickets ore underwritten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
There ore a limited number of student discounts available. 
~---­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 7, 2005 
PGA 

Mickelson wovvs the ho111e crovvd vvith vvin 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Phil Mickelson finished a tri­umphant week in his second home, winning the FBR Open by five strokes for his largest margin of victory in a PGA Tour event. 
Mickelson struggled with his driver some in a final round 3-under 68, but no one mounted a serious challenge Sunday. He never led by fewer than three strokes over the final 18 holes. 
Mickelson survived shots deep into the desert and into the water, then ~apped his round with a 26-foot birdie putt from the fringe on the 18th to the wild cheers of the friendly throng. 
"We had a lot of fun," he said. "We miss the people here so much." 
Afterward, his daughters, 5­year-old Amanda and 3-year­old Sophia, rushed to hug their dad on the 18th green. 
"Daddy, there's treats after," the youngest one said. 
With chants of "A-S-U" .and "Go Lefty!" from the crowd everywhere he went, Mickelson finished at 17­under 267 on the 7,216-yard Tournament Players Club course. Scott McCarron and Kevin Na, at 21 the youngest player on the PGA tour, tied for second at 272. 

McCarron shot his second consecutive 65 on Saturday. Na played in the final group with Mickelson and faltered before rallying with birdies on the 14th and 17th for his best finish in his two years on the tour. 
Steve Flesch, Tim Herron and David Toms finished at 
273. Toms would have fin­ished in second place but dou­ble-bogeyed the 18th. 
A three-time NCAA champi­on at Arizona State who lived in Scottsdale until December 2001, Mickelson won the FBR -formerly the Phoenix Open -for the second time. He was just 25 when he won in a playoff with another tour youngster, Justin Leonard, in 1996. 
Mickelson became the first golfer in five PGA tourna­ments this year to protect a 54-hole fead, the longest such streak since 1976, when third-round leaders did not win the first five PGA Tour events of the year. 
After a 2-over 73 in the first round, Mickelson was minus­19 in the last 54, including an 11-under 60 ip the second round on Friday, tying the course record with his lowest score in an official PGA event. 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 

Connelly impressed by effort 
Coach says personal bests characterize the Meyo Invite 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
They won only one event ­nine fewer than a week ago. 
In many ways, however, this weekend's Meyo Invitational may have been a more suc­cessful meet for the Irish. 
In an event stacked with four top-25 teams, Notre Dame was very competitive, achieving several personal bests and gaining valuable experience. 
The lone winner for the Irish was Maryanne Erigha who took the 200 meters in a time of 23.85 seconds. 
Her time places her in the top 10 among all collegians in this event. Erigha also took third in the 60-meter dash. 
The Irish achieved several qualifying times for the Big East and NCAA Champion­ships. In the 400-meter dash, Notre Dame finished 2-3 as sophomores Okechi Ogbuokiri and Tiffany Gunn both hit the NCAA provisional qualifying time. 
A quartet of Irish runners attained Big East qualifica­tions in the 3,000 meters. Sunni Olding (eighth), Stephanie Madia (15th), Amy 
Kohlmeier (23rd) and Elizabeth Webster (26th) all finished the race in less than 10 minutes. 
Irish coach Tim Connelly was especially impressed with Olding's effort. 
"Sunni was very composed," he said. 
"It was her first race at that distance, and it was not an easy race to run fast in, as it was very crowded. She showed a lot of maturity." 
Connelly also was impressed by the youngest of the Irish 
athletes. In the 1,000 meters, sophomore Brianne Schmidt and freshmen Jacqueline Carter and Mary Debevec all ran personal best times. 
"Those three ran well. They were able to double, running the 1,000 Friday night and the 

"We need to learn 
while those who to deal with are just short of the qualifying
different tracks, 
times look to hit

large crowded 
the time at next 

races and other weekend's scenarios that may Windsor Team arise. ,, c h a I I e n g e . 
Connelly kept his team's ·goals in Tim Connelly perspective in the early stages of the
Irish coach 
800 Saturday afternoon," Connelly said. 
"This is excellent prepara-. tion for the Big East meet when they will have to run prelims and finals in the same weekend." 

The field events were high­lighted by Stacey Cowan's sec­ond-place finish in the high jump. Georgia Tech's Chaunte Howard, considered the best high jumper in the country, was the only athlete to clear a height higher than Cowan's 1. 70 meters. 
Petra Dankova finished fifth in the triple jump with a dis­tance of 12.20 meters and qualifying for the Big East meet. Meghan Horn took fifth place in the shot put competi­tion, throwing a season-best distance of 13.97 meters. 
With the Big East Championships only two weeks away, many runners will be taking next week­end off to rest, 
season. 
"We need to continue to learn how to run races," Connelly said. 
"We need to learn to deal with different tracks, large crowded races and other sce­narios that may arise. We'll be able to do that as· the season continues." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer1@nd.edu 

Law& • • • An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series February 9, 2005 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom The Effects of Welfare and Tax Reform: The Material Well-Being ofSingle Mothers in the 1980s and 1990s Presenter James Sullivan Department ofEconomics and Econometrics Commentator Michael Kirsch The Law School  

Monday, February 7, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ROTC BASKETBALL 
Air Force rebounds from rocky first half 
Irish usefree throws to their advantage in 31-23 victory over Virginia Tech 
By ERIC RETTER 
Sports Writer 

In a defensive contest, free throws are always important. 
However, when they make up more than half of a team's points. every trip to the line is downright critical. 
The Irish Air Force men's A-team took full advantage of its opportuni­ties at the charity stripe in the championship of the 19th Annual Notre Dame Flying Irish Invitational on Sunday. 
The Air Force team went 16-of-27 from the free throw line en route to a hard-fought 31-23 victory over the Virginia Tech Orange. 
Freshman Anthony Cros­ser played like a veteran, leading the Irish at the line. 
Crosser went 5-of-6 and finished the game with seven points. 
The Irish struggled offensively for most of the first half, making only four field goals and shooting 4­for-IJ from the free the Irish won the game at the line, making 12-of-17 free throws in the second half and slowly building their way up to an 11­point lead with 1:47 to go. 
"We did a great job get­ting boards and getting to the line," Kogge said. 
As the game wound down, Virginia Tech awoke from its game long shoot­ing slump. 
However, it was too little, too late, and the Irish held on for an eight-point victo­ry. 
Defenses also dominated in the women's final, as the Marquette Army women's team fell to the South Dakota State Air Force Lady Jackrabbits by a score of 28-23. 
The Jackrabbits took an early lead 6-2 with back to back 3-pointers from Elizabeth Harding. 
Marquette was unable to erase that initial deficit until 59 seconds remained in the half, when tourna­ment MVP Tiffany Bilderback tied the game on a breakaway layup. 
In the second half, Marquette looked poised to capture the title, as Stephanie Thompson scored seven of her 10 points during a 10-4 Lady Eagles run that gave them a 21-15 advantage with under 10 minutes to play. 
However, as Thompson 
cooled off and 
Bilderback 
throw line, "The last two couldn't create despite man­much offense,
years, we didn't

aging to going 1-for-2 enter hair­from the field
even make it out of 

lime with a the brackets. I feel in the second 14-12 lead. half. the game
great, especially 

flo wever, momentum in a matchup for the girls. " slowly began including a to turn. 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Swimmers excel on the road 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Sports Writer 
Once again the Irish made themselves right at home in an opponent's pool. 
Posting a win on the road for the fourth straight time, the men's swimming and diving team had no problems sweeping past Oakland University (2-4). 
Notre Dame (10-2) won 10 of the first 12 events on Saturday and cruised to a 177-107 victo­ry at the OU Aquatics Center. 
"We've had some good suc­cess on the road these last few weeks," head coach Tim Welsh said. 
"We think that it's important to win on the road because our championship meet is on the road. So everything this year has been both its own meet and also preparation for the bigger meet at the end." 
The Irish took an early lead and never looked back, building a 60-14 advantage after four events, extending it to an insur­mountable 17.7-50 lead through 12 events. After building their 127-point lead, the Irish swam as exhibition competitors for the rest of the meet. 
"I must say, to be fair, that this is not a typical Oakland team," Welsh said. 
"They arc down this year, and they'll be back next year. But the results for us were wonder­ful starting at the very begin­ning." 
Notre Dame placed first and second in eight races and also had eight different swimmers achieve individual victories. 
Despite the relatively wide­open meet, several Irish swim­mers brought their best to their 
I 

events. Freshman Eric Swenson posted a lifetime best in the 100-yard breaststroke. 
His time of 56.39 seconds was the eighth-fastest time in that York." 
Notre Dame's win at Oakland snapped a trend in the swim series between the two schools. 
Since the series renewal dur­

event for an Irish swimmer and 
"We're grateful 
ranks him second 
among Big East that we were able 
swimmers. to do it but we're "That was also 
also mindful that
[Swenson's] life­time best, and the typical when we start the Oakland team will seasonal swims, 
be back." • 
we hope these are wonderful indica­tors of what might Tim Welsh be possible for us Irish coach in New York [at the Big East 
ing the 1999-2000 season. the home team has collected 
a  victory  every  
meet.  
"We  were  hoping  

that would be pos­sible," Welsh said. 
"We're grateful that we were able to do it but we're also mindful that the typical Oakland team will be back and we'll see them right here in our 

Championships]." Welsh said. 
Also swimming well for the Irish were juniors Patrick O'Berry and Bryan Guarnier. 
O'Berry led a balanced Irish 
pool next season." 
With 10 days until the start of the Big East Championships. the Irish can sense their season­long quest drawing to a close. 
attack in the 200­yard freestyle, posting a time of 1:40.58. 
O'Berry's finish leaves him as the fifth-fastest Irish racer all time in that race. 
Guarnier posted a win in the 200­yard butterfly with a time of 1:51.10, a time good enough for 
"We're polishing the apple, so to speak. The bulk of the week, as far as hard training, is done." 
Tim Welsh Irish coach 
But that won't stop them from fine-tuning their techniques in the upcoming week. 
"We're polishing the apple, so to speak," Welsh said. "The bulk of the week, as far as the hard training, is done. We are now in the process of polishing and fine-tuning the wheel. 

sixth among all-time Irish per­formances in that event. 
"Eric, Patrick and Bryan Guarnier, in particular. all had lifetime-best swims [Saturday]." Welsh said. 
"And they are kind of exactly what everyone wants, and [we] hope that it's a good indicator of what comes ahead in New We're going to do some resting and some focusing on technique details. The major emphasis will be getting the details right. 
"We're done out here in the Midwest. We're taking our show to New York." 
Contac;:t Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
Congregation ofHoly Cross 
scoring Nita liar-
Major Chris Trotter 

drought last­stead took
Air Force coach 

ing longer * over the game than seven for the minutes, Jackrabbits. clnfense was the name of scoring seven points of her the game. own to lead an 11-2 South 
Neither team was able to Dakota State run to close mount much offense dur­out the last 7:20 of the ing tho middln of the first game, including scores on half. when a 6-3 Virginia two consecutl''e trips up Tech lead stood for 7:05 the floor to give them the before Irish senior Matt lead with under a minute Crosser, who finished with to play. snvon points, converted on After, the game, the two free throws to cut the team's coach, Major Chris lead to one. Trotter, was enthused 
The second half proved about the victory. to lm a defensive battle as Trotter said that this wnll, as the year's win was two teams especially combined to "Their goal was to heartening in 
make only shut me down light of the four field last two year's
outside, and so we

goals. outcomes. 
Virginia had to try to pound "The last Tech's it down low. " two years, we defense shut didn't even the Irish make it out of
Tim Kogge

down from the brackets," the field, Air Force captain he said. holding sen­"I feel great, ior captain especially for Tim Kogge, the 3-point the girls." champ, to no lield goals all !larding was positive ganw. about her team's experi­"Their goal was to shut ence in the tournament. nw down outside. and so "It was a fun event. and wn had to try to pound it everyone played hard," down low." Kogge said. she said. 
Bm:ause of the lackluster shooting, fouls proved Contac;:t Erk Retter at costly for Virginia Tech. as eretter@nd.edu 
During the tneal he took bread, blessed and broke it, and gave it to thetn. "Take this," he said. 'This is tny body." (Mk 14:22) 
/~<:t. -. 
r <~\ 

vocation.ii.d.edu 

A SWER~ 
THE CALL V!>/ 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, February 7, 2005 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame falls to No. 34 Texas and No.9 Duke 
Weekend's matches blemish the team's perfect 6-0 record 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Sports Writer 

After flying to a 6-0 start, the Notre Dame men's tennis team was grounded this weekend. 
The No. 25 Irish (6-2) dropped two matches agctinst ranked foes -a 4-3 decision to No. 34 Texas (2-0) Friday and a 6-1 decision to No.9 Duke (3­
1) Sunday. 
Playing their third straight match against a ranked foe, the Irish lost the doubles point but jumped out to an early 3-1 lead against the Longhorns. Despite closing out their sin­gles victories in just two sets, Notre Dame couldn't pick up that vital fourth point. 
"We played very well against Texas," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "They're a great team, and they're going to be a top-25 team this year. I think we played as well against Texas as we've played all year. I didn't have any reservations about that match at all." 
Sophomore Barry King, who won two matches against ranked foes in as many match­es, upset the No. 53 player in the nation, Texas's Roger Gubser. King won a 7-6 (7-4). wins, the Irish found them­6-2 decision in the No. 3 slot. selves in unfamiliar territory King is now 4-1 against ranked against both Texas and Duke. opponents this season. "The doubles point is a big 
"He had a great weekend for momentum point, and with us," Bayliss said. "Roger Texas it was very close," Gubser is a senior and been Bayliss said. "We had our around a lot, played a lot of chances and obviously it affect­good tennis. It was a big win ed the outcome because we for Barry. Barry's serving well. lost 4-3. Had we won the dou­Earlier in the year, he had bles point, I'm pretty confident some troubles with his serve, we would have won the but he's picked that up. Gubser match." 
stayed back and  While the Texas  
really moved Barry around the court. Barry had to hit big to keep from being pushed around  "The doubles point is a big momentum point, and with Texas it was very  match came down to the wire, the Duke contest proved to be hard­ly that. The Notre Dame doubles  
and he did that and he really  close."  team more  of sopho­Stephen  
took Gubser."  it  to  Bobby Bayliss  Bass and King dropped a close 9­ 
The  match  Irish coach  7 doubles match.  

came down to King provided getting a single the sole Irish victory from senior Brent point, again providing an upset D'Amico. D'Amico, who played at the No. 3 slot against Duke's at the No. 1 slot for the first Stephen Amritraj, ranked No. time this season, dropped a 106 in the nation. King won the close 6-3, 4-6, 7-5 loss to Texas decision 7-6 (7-4), 6-2. junior Callum Beale. "I felt Barry King played a 
"[The match was between] great match at No. 3, beating two pretty evenly matched Stephen Amritraj," Bayliss teams, and it could have gone said. "I thought Patrick either way," Bayliss said. "I Buchanan played well at No. 6 thought we played hard and ... Patrick lost the tie-breaker played some smart tennis. It for that particular match but was a toss of a coin right there he had the momentum and at the end." • probably wotf'ld have had an 
After losing only one of their advantage in the third set. doubles points in their first six Beyond that, they beat us up pretty badly in a couple spots and a couple of the matches were over quickly." 

With a grueling stretch of four games against four nationally-ranked opponents behind them, the Irish can regroup before their next match against Marquette at home Sunday. 
"We've played four pretty good teams in a row," Bayliss said. "We could probably use a little rest right now, and we'll benefit from being able to regroup. When you play as many good teams in a row as we have, little cracks appear in your game and you need some team to regroup and shore up a couple things that have shown up. 
"We're going to take advan­tage of that for the next ten days or so." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala rgottumu@nd.edu 
THE ,is now accepting applications for 
2005-2006
R General Board 
Any full time undergraduate or graduate student at Notte Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit a resume and an application at least 3 pages long explaining how they would run their department. 

NEWS EDITOR 

Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff'of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR· Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assjgning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR 
Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor man­ages Saint Mary's department heads,. coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The 
Advertising Manager oversees a staff of account executives and is responsible 
for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Quark 
Xpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager over­
sees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing depart­
ments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER . 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR 
Applicants must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site. The Web ·Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial department of The 
Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The 
Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge 
of Free Hand or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of 
designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top­
quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
All applications must be submitted to Claire Heininger in the Observer's office, located in the basement of South Dining Hall, by Wednesday, February 9, 2005 by 5 p.m. Questions about the application process can be directed to Claire at 1-4542. 
Monday, February 7, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
SMC BASKETBALL 
-
Hope defense hol4s off Belles for 61-48 wiri 
team like that." with Deirdrn Mangan and /\bbny
By KEVIN BRENNAN 

Saint Mary's couldn't dose the Baum eaeh making signif'ieant
Sports Writer 

gap in tho second hair. The Belles eontributions of six and four rut Hope's advantage to seven poinL<>, mspoetively. 
Saint Mary's played even with points on several occasions, but Guard Katie Boyce returned to MI/\A leader llopn liw 34 minutes failed to get any doser. . the lineup Saturday after missing Saturday. But llopn 111Hled the I lope, the top defensive team in thrne weeks with a torn tendon in lirst half on a six-minute, I S-4 the conference, pnwented the her foot. The Belles rely on nm and dnfnatnd the Belles (, l-Belles from developing any con­Boyce, last season's MIAA defen­4H. sistent offensive play. Saint sive player of the year, for her 
Tlw contest l>n!{an as a dnfen­Mary's shot 34.5 pereent from the ball handling and stnllar detimse. sivn battle and aftPr night min­lloor for the gamn and only 27.3 The senior played 17 minutes. utes of play, the two teams had poreent in the lirst half. and scored six points in the combined for a nwrn I:~ points. "They arn very big so it's hard game. 
"Wn wnn~ just doing tho things to shoot over them," Bellina said. "I was so impressed with her," w11 rwndNI to do," Saint Mary's "You can't g11t much going'with­Bellina said. "She was able to road1 Suzanne Bellina said of her ~~ut .~eeond chance opportuni­step into the flow of the ofl'ense tnarn 's early play. tros. without missing a boat." 
With (,:I X remaining in the Saint Mary's offense also suf'­Bellina said that Boyce's pres­half, Bdlns renter Maureen Bush fornd with the absenee of leading lmee on thn eourt is crucial as the hit a turnaround jumper in thn seorer Emily Creaehbaum for regular season winds down. With larw to giw Saint Mary's a I f1-15 much of' the gamo. In foul trouble four games remaining, Saint lead. Tho Flying l>uteh offense all day, Creaehbaum played only Mary's hopes to finish fourth in tlwn woke up and Hope took a 17 minutes, seoring six point-;. the MIAA and host a first round :B-20 lead into th11 lorknr room. While disappointed with the playon· game. The Belles are eur­pnrformanee will hPip the Bnlles ing that we can play with the top 
"We rnlaxnd and Uwy took total loss, the Belles will take some rnntly in a three-way tie for tilth during the erucial final four team in the league," Bellina said. advantage of it," Bellina said of' positives from the performance. plaee, but trail fourth-place Tri­games. tJw last six minutes of tho lirst In Creaeh baum's absence, the State by just one half game. "I think we definitely take con­Contact Kevin Brennan at hair "You can't do that against a Saint Mary's beneh played well Bellina believes that Saturday's fidlmee from this game, reeogniz-kbrenna4@nd.edu 
---------~==~==~~~~==~~====~~~~~~~~==~~~~~==~~~--~~ 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
No. 25 Irish gain m_om_entum_ for Big East, defeat Grizzlies 
their first loss since the last "We had some good swims," look back. fr<Hlstyle ovonts, with times of
Oakland loses bragging 
time the two teams met. Weathers said. "It wasn't as Oakland tied the meet at I minutn, 54.04 snconds in tho ­rights, flawless record Notrn Dame won 11 of the 16 exciting or intense a meet as 74.5 after eight events, but the 200 and 5:05.42 in the 500­events en route to a 163.5-say a Michigan, but it was Irish responded by winning yard evont. 
134.5 victory, all without the good for the kids to have the seven of tho final eight to Freshman Carolino .Johnson By MIKE TENNANT help of senior /\11-/\meriean ehallenge lof Perry-Eaton not close out the victory. won two events l'or Notrn Sporrs Wri!l·r Meghan Perry-Eaton. Perry-being there!." Leading tho way for the Irish lhtme, claiming victory in tlw 
1\aton had stayed behind to The Grizzlies jumped out to was junior Christel Bouvron, 100-yard backstroke and tlw 
The No. 25 Irish are holding catch up on work missed while an early lead after taking the who won three separate 100-yard froostylo. tlwir lwads high af'tnr bnating she was on a job interview, first event, but by the end of events for the Irish. .Johnson won both events by undnfnatnd Oakland University said head coach Bailey the third race, the Irish would Bouvron, a two-time roughly one second and now Saturday, giving thn Crizzlins WPalhers. reclaim the lead and never Olympian for her native owns all of Notro Damn's top 
Singapore, took first in tho nine limns in tho 100-yard 

200 and 500-yard fn~estyle raees, as well as in the 100­yard butterfly. 
The junior set season-best times for the Irish in both 
ST. STEPHEN'S & ST. AGNES SCHOOL, an Episcopal day school located in ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA, is hiring for the following positions for the 2005-2006 school year: Upper School openings: 
•
History Position: World History, two year sequence for 9th and 1 01h graders. Includes western and nonwestern developing civilizations through the 17th century. History major required. Coaching preferred. 

•
Chemistry Position: High School chemistry survey class and Advanced Placement Chemistry. Chemistry major preferred, science major required. Coaching preferred. 


Middle School anticipated openings: •Spanish •English 
•English/History Full time responsibilities including teaching four classes (usually two different preps) and one extracurricular duty. Salary and benefits are competitive for the Washington, D.C. area. 
David Faus, Assistant Head and Director of the Upper School, will be conducting interviews at Notre Dame on Wednesday, February l61 
h 

(30 minute interviews from 8:30-5:00). Please send your resume to dfaus@sssas.org if you are interested in applying. Or, you may apply through GO IRISH. The deadline for applying is midnight on February 8, 2005. Also, we will speak to anyone interested in teaching/coaching. 

Poker Tables from $299.00 
Rentals Available 

Large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 

574-272-1617 

baekstroke. 
Sophomorn Katie Carroll also won two evnnts, taking thn title in both individual mndlnys. Carroll won tho 400­yard race by morn than four seeonds and won tho 200 by 
3.5 seconds, giving her all top thr<Hl timns by the Irish this season in tho event. 
Also elaiming victories on Saturday were sophomore Jessica Stephens in the 200 breaststroke, sophomore Ellnn Johnson in the 200 back­stroke, and freshman Katie Guida, who won the 50 frnestyle by a slim .14 sec­onds. 
The team is ofT now until the Big East Championships, scheduled l'or Feb. 16-19 in East Meadow, N.Y. Tho Irish will be looking to win their ninth straight eonferencn championship, dating back to 1995-96, their inaugural sea­son in the Big East. 
Weathers is eonf'idnnt his team will bo up to the chal­llmge. 
"I think wn're at a stagn wn need to bn at," ho said. 
Contact Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 
11~ '4 Z'att S{tedat 
1 Dozen Roses, Bouquet $27.99 
CASH AND CARRY. PRE-ORDERS ONLY OTHER SER­VICES WITH DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
MUST CALL BEFORE WEDNESDAY, 2/9/05 
The Primitive Heart and Nursery 
Located at 1 03 Dixie Way North in Roseland Order Now! 272-0970 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 7, 2005 
HOCKEY 

Irish tie Mavericks 1-1 Friday, fall 6-3 Saturday 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN and 
JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Wrirers 
Notre Dame's losing streak came to an end, but another one started the very next night. 
The Irish snapped their eight-game losing streak Friday with a 1-1 tie over the Mavericks, but then fell Saturday by a 6-3 score. 
Nebraska-Omaha struck first on Friday during Notre Dame's first power play of the game. 
Maverick goalie Chris Holt made an impressive pass to spring Bill Thomas, who skat­ed down the right side unim­peded. 
Thomas took the puck in close on Irish goalie Morgan Cey, then switched direction with a quick pass across the crease to Scott Parse, who deposited the puck in the open net for a Maverick shorthanded goal. 
Notre Dame. got its equaliz­er from an unlikely source, freshman defenseman Luke Lucyk, who found the back of the net for the first time this season. 
Irish forward Cory McLean took the puck down the right

-
side of the ice at 7:20 of the third period and made a quick pass to Lucyk just out­side the right face-off circle. The defenseman flipped a weak wrist shot toward the net that somehow managed to elude Nebraska-Omaha goalie Chris Holt. "After you get as many shots and chances as we had in that game, you figure if you just put one on net it might go in," Lucyk said. Irish coach Dave Poulin agreed that Lucyk's goal was something that the team real­ly needed after offense has been hard to come by this season. "That's really the kind of goal that you need to snap out of a slump," he said. "Very often it's the weird bounce, the crazy hop or a shot off someone's head that will get you out of that funk." Cey made 26 saves for the Irish and was named Perani Cup first star for the game. The senior goalie made sever­al acrobatic saves in the first period to keep his team in the game, including a rolling high-leg kick save that brought the loudest ovation of the night from Irish fans. "On a save like that it all happens so fast that 1 don't really think about what my body does, it's just instinct," he said. After Friday's win, the Irish seemed poised to begin another type of streak going into the third period tied at 2­2 on Saturday. But Parse changed that at the 14:03 mark with an out­standing shot. Cutting across the ice from the weak sid"e, Parse out­maneuvered the Irish defense and ripped the puck past Cey in what was the turning point of the game. "Parse made a major league play," Irish coach Dave Poulin. "That's a major league goal by a very good player." The scoring got going early for Nebraska-Omaha, as 

You.. 

-
0 
ce 
Vote at https://apps.nd.edu/elections Monday, 2/7/05 8 a.-8 p. 
o .. 1st Floo.. LaFortune 3:30-8 p. Run·o•l' Debate-Huddle Ma:rt 7:00 p. 2/8/05 
Mavericks' right wing Mick Lawrence scored on the power play off a rebound at 
2:30 in the first. Lawrence had two goals and two assists in the game. 
The Irish had their chances in the first period, as Matt Amado had two open looks at the net but could not seem to find the back of the net. 
"Frustration is at an all­time high right now," Irish captain Cory McLean said. "We hit three or four posts tonight, and it just doesn't seem to be going our way." 
The Irish responded at 4:02 in the second, when Evan Rankin's shot deflected to Mike Walsh in front of the net. Walsh beat Holt for his second goal of the season. 
The Mavericks came right back at 11:51, when right wing Bill Thomas scored on the power play. It was Thomas' 14th goal of the sea­son. 
Once again, the Irish were able to respond to the Mavericks score, when Chris Trick found McLean on the doorstep for his fourth goal of the season. 
"At 2-2 I'm fully confident we're going to win that game, 
we've just got to find  a way,"  
Poulin said.  
Nebraska-Omaha  would  

tack on another goals at 14:25, before Irish center Tony Gill scored on one of the stranger goals of the season to cut the lead to 4-3. 
At 15:30, Gill fired the puck off the right boards in the Nebraska-Omaha zone. The puck deflected off the boards, directly into the net. 
With a glimmer of hope remaining, Mavericks' center Dan Hacker crushed any real possibility of the comeback when he scored off a rebound in front of Cey. 
An empty net goal by Lawrence with 19.6 seconds rematnmg solidified the Mavericks' victory. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu and Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
BETH WERNET !The Observer Irish defenseman Noah Babin makes a pass as Nebraska-Omaha's Dan Hacker defends during Notre Dame's 6-3 loss to the Mavericks Saturday. 
To keep your body healtl\y. 
Take it every day. 

You need 400mcg ·{tnierC)g:tamsl or 0.4 (mill.igrcrll9J drily. 
Take it this way. 1\n easy way to be sw;e yoo are gett.in;! eoough is to take a mllti·vitamin or foUc acid SUR?lment. Yru. c;an also get it cy ea~ a, cereal that is 100% fortified with fblic 1ril. 
Take our 'M:>rd for it. 

If there's any chance you ooul.d beccrre pregnant. yoo need to get """'-"Jh folic acid every day. It bas been proven to prevent serious birth defects whal taken before pregnancy. Ard it nay also protect you fran heart disease and certain cancers. 
'lt>firrlrutnnre, oal.l us at 1·800·433·0746 cr 1·966·275·1274 T'l'Y/TDDCJI:'visita.n:-w3::gite ci:. W\.WJ.in~gov/isdh/prcgraiTS/folicacid. 
'lbis project was f~ by a state genetics inplEit'mtatioo grant fran the U.S. Department of Health and Hu:ran services, Health :Re:so.trces am services hininist.J:at.ia:t, Maternal ard Qri.ld Health &lreau. 
~~-~----------------------------------------------~ -~ 
Monday, February 7, 2005 page 25 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Duals 
continued from page 28 
.Jnssn J.apuchli also went unde­feated for thn nwn 's npnnists, compiling a rnmrd of' 6-0 during thn wnnknnd. and thn men's nJwnists put up a 33-3 roeord ovomll. 
Tlw nwn's sabrn tnam also mmpilnd a strong mmrd, going :~2-4 behind 6-0 days l'rom snnior .John Espinosa and juniors Nirholas Diacou and Alnx Sr.humadwr. Thn mnn's filii tnam also had a strong day but rela­tivnly strugglnd. compiling a rnmrd of 24-12. 
Bndnarski saw promiso in thn pPrfiJrnmnt:n of' his fimcnrs who havtm't bntm snPing much action this SlliL'iOn. 
"Tlwsn kids arn progrnssing," lw said. "Wn'n~ giving them a ch.aru:l' .to impro~.n. and thny'rn usmg t.hrs chancn. 
(lrw of' llw biggnst surprisns fiw llw wonwn's tnam WIL'i the fmsh­man l'oil tnam of' Mnlanin Bautista and Hadwl Cota. who WPnt S-0 and IJ-0, rnspoetively. hnlping tho squad to a :14-2 day. 
Thn most imprnssivn porf(Jrm­arwn of' thn day came f'rom thn wonum's sabrP tnam, IL'i it wont unddoatnd in all l'our of' its matdws, winning all 3(J bouts. SPnior m-captain Danidln Davis lnd t.hn way with a 12-0 showing. Slw WIL'i joirwd in victory by sen­ior Natalin TemH•r and sopho­morns Angnla Vincent and Erin I lousing. 
Though tlw Irish stars saw lit­tin tinw, if any, this wnnkend cer­tainly loll Bndnarski fimling opti­mistk. 
"We havl' progn~ss in our backups. whit'h is good rwws fiJr tlw l'uturn of' tlw program," he said. "Thny an• young and trying to bl' tlw startPrs fiw tlw rwxt fi~w ynars." 
Contact Eric Retter at erctter@nd.edu 




Mile 
continued from page 28 
in front of his identical twin brother John, also of' Indiana, won thn race. 
This is the first time in NCAA history two brothers have both cracked the four-minute plateau in the same race. Notro Dame graduate Lukn Watson returned to his alma matnr to finish third in 3:58.59, with current Notrn Dame sophomore Kurt Benninger fourth in 
3:58.75. It was the first timo Benninger had craeknd f'our minutes. 
Benninger was pleased with his performance and with those of his teammates. 
''I'm pretty happy about it !breaking four minutes!." he said. "Any time you brnak four minutes, it's exciting, and it's something I've always wanted to do. Overall, the meet went pretty woll for us also." 
The Irish qualified seven f'or the Big East Championships and three for the NCAAs. Freshman Terrell Lambert became the third Irish runner to qualify for the Big East in the 
60-meter dash, joining SPiim Nurudeen and Dwight Hllick, both of' whom sat out tho racn this wnnkend. 
Nurudonn wPnt up against Antwon llicks of' Mississippi in tiH~ (J()-mott~r hurdlns. Nurudeon postnd a time of' 7.80 seconds. finishing second to llieks. the best collngian in this event, who ran a 7. (,5. Nurudonn also finished third in the 200-nwtors. with a personal best of 2t.:n seconds. onn of' the best times in thn confen•neP this season. 
Sovoral Irish athletes posted great marks, but dun to tho high ealibnr of' thn competition f'inishod f'urthnr down in tlw standings. 
Thnse marks won't go unno­ticed since a lot of tlwm arn among the very best posted in the Big East this year. 
Chris Staron and Christopher Jacques finished ninth in the• high jump and long jump respnetivnly. Staron's jump of 
2.01 nwtnrs was the third-best in confernncn, whiln Jacques' 6.98-nwter leap was second best. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 

2004-05 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
Aetors ]~ronl rrla) 11Hld<)fl Sing<~ OTHELLO 
by William Shakespeare 
Friday, February 11 and Saturday, February 12 ; Both performances at 7:30p.m. 
Leighton Concert Hall • 
. · • Marie P DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General Public $18.00 • Seniors/NO Faculty/Staff $16 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 631·2800. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
r;:f,1UNIHRSITYOI' Rl~DEBART0l0w NOTRE DAME \s.£1 PfRfORMINGARTSCENTER 

_,. 
r 
page 26
r 
Panthers 
continued from page 28 
freshman played in front of a hometown crowd for the first time ever. 
Borton said Allen's fans overshadowed those of Pittsburgh. 
"We had a lot of Irish fans because of Charel," Borton said. "Not at all ldid the Pittsburgh fans affect Notre 
boards and just using your forearm to keep her out of the paint so she couldn't get any easy shots." 
Notre Dame finished with a season-high 50 rebounds, six more than Pittsburgh. 
Megan Duffy had nine assists, all in the first half, for Notre Dame, and Batteast added 12 points, nine in the second half. The starters sat out the majority of the second half for the Irish, with Duffy playing just 25 minutes, and 
Dame]."  "We never let them  Batteast playing  
Notre Dame (20-3, 8-2 Big  get close to us. "  15 minutes. The Irish  are  
East) got off to a  back  in  action  
quick  start  Teresa Borton  Wednesday night  
against  the  Irish center  when they travel  

Panthers (11-1 0, 3-7 Big East), despite All-American Jacqueline Batteast playing just six first-half minutes due to foul trouble. 
With 5:30 to play in the first half, Notre Dame used a 14-0 run to put the game away after being up 24-1 8. The game was never in doubt for the Irish, as they dominated in the paint behind Borton and LaVere. 
"The quick start [kept their fans out of the gameJ." Borton said. "We never let them get close to us." 
LaVere and Borton com­bined for 21 first-half points, 10 for Borton on 5-for-5 shooting, and 11 for LaVere on 4-for-7 shooting. They were the main contributors to Notre Dame outscoring Pittsburgh 24-6 in the paint in the first half. 
Meanwhile, Pittsburgh's star freshman Marcedes Walker was limited to just four points and three fouls in the first half, as the Irish led 40-23 at the half. 
"I think !Walker] was kind of slow," Borton said. "So, we ran down the court ahead of her and got some easy layups." 
Walker finished with 13 points and 11 rebounds, many coming after the game's out­come was already decided. 
Borton and LaVere got it done on the defensive end against Walker as well, as Pittsburgh's freshman strug­gled most of the game. 
"She's a very strong girl," Borton said. "It was just get­ting a body on her on the 
to Providence. 
Notes: 
+ 
The 20 wins for Notre Dame marks the 16th season of Muffet McGraw's 18 years at Notre Dame that the Irish have won 20 games. It is also the 12th consecutive 20-win season for Notre Dame. 

+ 
Notre Dame is now 15-0 against Pittsburgh all-time in women's basketball. 


+ Charel Allen is averaging 
10.6 points over her past eight games, coming off the bench for the Irish. The freshman is fourth on the team in scoring. 
NO. 6 NOTRE DAME 75, 
PITTSBURGH 47 
at the PETERSON 
EVENTS CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (20-3, 8-2) 
Batteast 4-10 2-2 12, Erwin 2-8 4-4 8, Borton 5-7 0-0 10, Duffy 1-5 4-4 6, Gray 0-5 0-0 0, Gaines 0-3 3-4 3, Allen 7-11 2-2 16, Powers 0-0 0-0 0, Tsipis 0-1 0-0 0, D'Amico 1-11-2 3, LaVere 7-113-617. 
PITTSBURGH (11-10, 3-7) 
Brown 0-6 2-2 2, Sholokhova 3-16 0-2 7, Walker 5-10 3-7 13, Kunich 3-8 0-0 8, J.AIIen 1-3 0-0 3, Hughfl,S 0-0 0-0 0, Histed 3-15 1-2 8, D.Taylor 0-1 0-0 0, C.Taylor 0­2 2-4 2, Morris 2-7 0-1 4. 
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  40  35  75  
Pittsburgh  23  24  47  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 2-6 (Batteast 2-2, Dully 0-4), Pittsburgh 5-26 (Junich 2­6, Allen 1-3, !·listed 1-5, Sholokhova 1-9, D.Taylor 0-1, Morris 0-2). Fouled out: Walker, Brown. Rebounds: Notre Dame 50 (LaVere 8), Pittsburgh 44 (Walker 11). Assists: Notre Dame 19 (Duffy 9), Pittsburgh 7 (Brown, Kunich 3). Total fouls: Notre Dame 16, Pittsburgh 18. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
We l>o Mondays 
Like No IPiace Else! 
Enjoy a double order of chicken. s±eak or combo fajiTas (enoush for TWO) for jus± $11!* 

c 

MISIIAWAI<A 
4810 Grape Rd. 271-1330 

Monday, February 7, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Orange 
continued from page 28 
the last 14 games against Notre Dame. 
The Irish scored six points the rest of the way. It wasn't just that the offense stopped making shots, but the team didn't get in to any flow. Syracuse adjusted its tradition­al 2-3 zone into more of a 3-2 look to take away the perime­ter. Chris Thomas couldn't overcome that change in the defensive look and Syracuse's full-court press to get his team consistently into good offensive sets. 
Warrick and McNamara scored Syracuse's next 16 points. That stretch ended when Thomas fouled McNamara on a 3-point attempt. McNamara made all three free throws to put the Orange up 55-52 and give Syracuse its first advantage since leading 2-0. 
During the last two minutes, McNamara made all seven of his free throws to provide Syracuse enough of an edge so they could maintain their lead even after four missed free throws by Terrence Hoberts during the last 14 seconds. 
Brey's technical foul came with 3:24 left. He was arguing with the. official on a five-sec­ond call made against Chris Quinn. 
McNamara made both free throws after the media time­out, just as he did after a tech­nical on Jordan Cornette in the first half. 
Those were Notre Dame's first technical fouls of the sea­son, and the first time the Irish had a technical foul since Torrian Jones earned one against Saint Louis in last sea­son's NIT. 
Thomas continued to strug­gle for the Irish, finishing with five points on 2-of-12 shooting, five assists and four turnovers. The senior still hasn't consis­tently found that balance of setting up his teammates and taking the game into his hands. 


The most surprising thing on the night was Notre Dame's inability to make its free throws. 
The Irish, who came into the game leading the Big East in free throw shooting, finished 6-of-17 from the charity stripe and dropped to second in the conference. 
Both teams played an ugly first half, but the Irish used a scoring spurt to build a 26-20 halftime lead. Up 13-12, a layup by Rick Cornett, and 3­pointers from Thomas and Quinn put the Irish ahead 21­12. 
The most painful statistic from the first half was the Irish shooting 0-for-7 on their free throws. 
The Irish return to the Joyce Center Tuesday night to face Boston College. The Golden Eagles are the first team in Big East history to start a season 
20-0. Tip-ofTis set for 7:00p.m. 
SYRACUSE 60, NOTRE DAME 57 at the CARRIER DOME 
NOTRE DAME (13-6,5-4) 
Cornette 0-1 0-0 0, Falls 3-9 0-0 9, Francis 5-9 5-8 15, Thoma~ 2-12 O-:{ 5, Cornett 3-4 0-2 6, Latimore 5-8 0-0 10, Carter 0-2 0-2 0, Quinn 4-8 1-2 12. 
SYRACUSE (21-2, 8-1) 
Warrick 7-12 6-11 20, Pace 5-8 0-0 10, Forth 0-0 0-0 0, McNamara 4-9 11-11 22, MeCroskey 1-6 2-4 4, Nichols 0-0 0-0 0, Watkins 0-0 0-0 0, Edelin 1-3 0-0 2, 
Hoberts 0-2 2-6 2.  
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  26  :n  57  
Syracuse  20  40  60  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 7-23 (Quinn 3-7, Falls 3-8, Thomas 1-6, Carter 0-1, Cornette 0-1), Syracuse 3-12: (MeNamara 3-8, Warrick 0-1, McCroskey 0-3). Fouled out: McNamara. Rebounds: Notre Dame 37 (Francis 11), Syraeus11 29 (Forth, Pace, Warrick 6). Assists: : Notre Dame 11 (Thomas 5), Syracuse 6 (McNamara. Pace 3). Total fouls: Notre Dame 21, Syracuse 17. Technicals: Cornette. ND T11am. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Don1 give up Sundavs for lent 
lmmaus 
·tent Materials Availa e 
Pick up in COMO IIICIIeCenter lid Reseurce Reo1 
Sllll fahb Shanng CIDIIUiides 
Make lvervdav aSundav 


l 
1 
Monday, February 7, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
CAN YOU WORK WELL WITHOUT SUPERVISION?  NO. I NEED CON­TINUOUS SUPER­VISION TO KEEP ME FROM STEALIN' AND HARASSIN'.  I THINK WE'RE DONE HERE ..  DO YOU MIND IF I SHOW MYSELF OUT? \  

CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 


UCLA.ESSAYSI'F'U'R  
PEASANTARMY 1-[jrg~  
CROI SSANTANor:JiAi'M srr-rs-. S U R D S • D E I F Y  


65 Period after dark, in ads 66 Shabby 67 Go wrong 68 Ever and 69 Causing goosebumps 
DOWN 1 Not all 2 Dressed 3 Nature walk 4 Super Bowl or 

the Oscars, e.g. 5 Boo-boos 6 Mesozoic, for 
one 7 Mexican serving 8 Mysterious sign 9 Nutcake 
10 Poetic tribute 
11 "We'll find it" 

12 Whom a dragon 
threatens in a fairy tale 13 Certain 1960's paintings 18 Synagogue 22 Swear (to) 24 When repeated, "For shame!" 26 Suffix with devil 27 "Now I see!" 
28 Gibson who directed "The Passion of the Christ" 
29 Texas Instruments product 

31 Horne and Olin 
32 Grounded jet, for short 34 Reared 37 Org. for tooth 
doctors 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

39 Bankbook abbr. 47 More grayish 58 Monotonous 
learning40 Drink with one 48 Truck scale 
lump or two units 
59 Give this for 42 Middle grade 
52 Blacksmith's that 43 Headache workplace 
so Nervouslyqueller 
55 Defense grp. irritable 44 Have since 1949 headaches, say 62 Paternity
56 Actor Wilson of 
identifier45 Trolley 
"Shanghai 46 Witch's laugh Noon" 63 Bowlike line 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1i800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NATEC
I 

rJ 
1 
02005 Tribune Media Serv1ces, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DYSIA 
I I I 
HASRIG
rxJ 


www.jumble.com 
TENTIK I 

Jumbles: ELITE
S~turday's I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

7 .•,.,.,., ··-·-· WHAT MOM ·FAC.E:D WHE:N SHE: FOF<GOT TO THAW DINNE:I<, 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as • suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) APART INFECT SICKEN 

Answer: Often running around a back yard ­A PICKET FENCE 
.. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Khleo Thomas, 16; Christian Bale, 31; Brell Butler. 47; Phil Collins. 54 · 
Happy Birthday: A lillie ingenuity mixed with hard work is what's required this year. You will he tempted to take on too much, pay too much and in general 
-
overextend yourself on all counts if you aren't careful. Make a deal with yourself that this year everything must he understated. If you can stick to hasics ami not gel off track, victory can he yours. It's hcucr to receive a lillie success than none at all. Your numbers arc 4, 17, 22, 26, 35,40 
ARIES (March 21-Ap•·il 19): Take the plunge. Things arc opening up for you, and much can he achieved. Resurrect your ideas, only this time do it yourself instead of telling others gel involved and lake over. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You should gel your papers in order and prepare to counteract anyone who is trying to push you in the wrong direction. You can't let criticism and comments made hother you. *** -· GEMINI (May 21-.lune 20): You arc on a roll, and nothing is likely to stop you today. Get down to business and sec how much you can al·complish. Everyone will want to help and spend time with you. ***** CANCER (June 21-.luly 22): You may want to he a little reluctant to let anyone coerce you into spending or doing something you know you shouldn't he doing. Take a stand and prepare to say no if you must. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've got plenty going on. Get involved in events or activities that will hring you closer to individuals who interest you. Love and romance arc in a high cycle. Stay active. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your mind may he on money. hut you should he concerned ahoul your health and your futm;c. Reconsider where you arc headed and what direction you feel you should he going. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You've got more options than you thin~. List all the possibilities and make plans to follow through with something that really interests you. A social gathering will enhance romance. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't he too quick to offer your services. You may he taken advantage of if you aren't persistent about what you want or whut you do. Don't sell yourself short; you're worth more. *** SAGITTARIYS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Something worthwhile will unfold if you present your idea or plan. Communication will lead to some interesting suggestions and possibly a partnership with someone inllucnlial. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lun. 19): You may have to keep a lid on what you ure up lo. Taking on too much or allowing someone to lean on you too much will set you hack. Consider your options when it comes to making money. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's your tum to expand your ideas and to voice 
·­
your opinions. The more you do for yourself and others, the more confidence you will have to follow through and do your own thing. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Money mailers must he taken care of. Make some changes at home that will make your place more comfortahlc. Luck is with you, and money or gifts will come your way. Change will he good. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have the power. knowledge and wisdom to do whatever you want. You arc capahlc of great things hut also suhjcctlo taking on too much. Gauging what you do will he the secret to your life success. 
Clz~ck out Eugenia's Weh sites at astroadvice.com <IIIli eugenia/ast.com 
-
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _________ State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 

... 
PORTS
Monday, February 7, 2005 
page 28 
N D BASKETBALL 

Two trips, two different results 
LaVere scores 17 points as the visiting· Irish knock off Pittsburgh 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Pittsburgh's "Pack the Petersen" promotion worked, drawing a season-high 5,652 fans. But Charel Allen's 11 busloads of hometown fans were the only ones heard Saturday afternoon as the No.

-6 Irish defeated Pittsburgh 75-47 at the Petersen Events Center. The 28 points was Notre Dame's largest margin of victory this season. "It feels great, because we haven't done that all year," Irish center Teresa Borton said. "We finally had the opportunity to get the lead and keep that lead to a large margin." Courtney LaVere had 17 points and eight rebounds and Allen chipped in 16 points to lead the Irish. Allen, one of Pennsylvania's all-time high school scoring leaders, hails from Monessen, about an hour from Pittsburgh. The 
see PANTHERS/page 26 


CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer AP At left, Irish center Teresa Borton goes up for a layup against Connecticut. Borton had 10 points. in Notre Dame's win on the road at Pittsburgh. 
Men blow a late lead for second time this year against No. 6 Syracuse 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Not much changed the second time around against Syracuse -except the size of the crowd. 
For the second time in as many games against the Orange (21-2, 8-1 Big East), the Irish (13-6, 5-4) couldn't main­tain their second half lead en route to losing 60-57 at the Carrier Dome Saturday night in front of a NCAA record on-cam­pus crowd of33,199. 
On Jan. 10 at the Joyce Center, the Irish held a 57-51 lead with 8:17 remaining but were outscored 19-4 during the remainder of the game. 
This time, the Irish held their largest lead of the game with 
6:05 remaining as they were up 50-39 after Torin Francis com­pleted a three-point play. 
Then the offense stopped scoring, the defense let Hakim Warrick and Gerry McNamara take over the game and Mike Brey got a costly technical en route to Syracuse's 12th win in 
see ORANGE/page 26 
FENCING 

Irish finish -with 8-0 record at Ohio Duals 
Both men and women end the weekend with four wins on the road 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
After this weekend, the Irish can start feeling more comfort­able about next year. 
Both the No. 2 women's and the No. 4 men's squads went undefeated at the Ohio State Duals, using mostly backups and younger fencers in competition against a much weaker field than the Irish had grown accus­tomed to facing in the last few events. 
Each of Notre Dame's teams easily rolled to 4-0 records at the event. The men defeated both Purdue and Case Western Reserve by scores of 20-7, while beating Bowling Green 23-4 and Oberlin 26-1. The Irish women were even more dominant, shut­ting out Oberlin and triumphing over ·Purdue, Case Western and Bowling Green by respective scores of 24-3, 25-2 and 26-1. 

Coach Janusz Bednarski was pleased with his team's overall performance. 
"It went very well, though it was not a hard tournament," he said. 
All-American senior men's epeeist Michal Soberiaj was one of the few Irish starters seeing regular action this weekend, and he went 12-0 to extend his season record to 55-2, already ninth most wins for an Irish fencer in a ssason. Sophomore 
see DUALS/page 25 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Benninger runs 4-minute mile 
By JOHN EVERETT Sports Writer 
Competing against some of the best athletes from_ all regions of the country, the Irish answered with excellent indi­vidual performances to estab­lish their stance at the forefront of the Big East conference. 
The field running the mile highlighted the 18th annual Meyo Invitational, held Friday and Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Four runners in the event broke the four-.minute mark, the time first broken by Roger Bannister in 1954 that has come to be the standard against which all runners are judged. 
Indiana's Sean Jefferson, who crossed the finish line at 3 min­utes, 56.44 seconds, one second 
see MILE/page 25 


en 
HOCKEY 

SMC BASKETBAll 
~D WOMEN'S SWIMMir.m 

ME~~s SWIMMING
MEN'S TE~NIS 
SUPER BOWl 
LLI
1--
Co) ND 1, UNO 1 

Hope 61, 
Notre Dame 163.5, 

Texas 4, ND 3 
Notre Dame 177, 
New En~land 24,

z UNO 6, ND 3 

Samt Mary's 48 
Oakland 134.5 

Duke 8, ND 1 
Oakland 107 
Philade phia 21
s 
The Irish tied 

The Belles dropped 
Oakland's first loss of 

The men's team's 6-0 
The men won 10 out 
Look inside for com­
= c::c Nebraska-Omaha Friday, 

their third conference 
the season came at the 

start came to an end 
of their first 12 events 
plete coverage of the big 
but couldn't withstand 

game in a row. 
hands of the Irish 

with two lbsses to 
on their way to the vic­
game.
!; the Mavericks' offense 
women's squad. 

ranked foes. 
tory. 
Saturday. 
page 24 
page 23 
page 23 
page 22 

page 21 
page 17,18 




