
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE.S9 ·. . _ -MONDAY. NOVEMBER21, 2005 
Sticky situation causes ejections 


Marshmallows drive game ejections to 181 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
Marshmallow-related ejec­tions spiked at the seniors' last home .football game Saturday, contributing to the 181 ejections from the stadi­um made by ushers, coordina­tor of stadium personnel Cappy Gagnon said Sunday. 
Forty-three students were ejected for marshmallows, 46 students were ejected for alcohol-related offenses and 92 non-students with regular tickets were rejected for alco­hol-related offenses, Gagnon said. 
see EJECTIONS/page 4 

Report 

third this semester 
Observer Staff Report 
A Saint Mary's student reported to the College's secu­rity department Sunday morn­ing she was sexually assault­ed, according to an e-mailed statement released to the campus by security director David Chapman Sunday at 8:30a.m. 
The statement did not speci­fy when the alleged assault took placf~ but did say it occurred while the student was attending an otT-campus party. 
The alleged victim was offered counseling and any other services she requested, according to the statement. 
"Counseling and other serv­ices are standard procedure and we ·will be with the victim through every step of the procnss," Chapman said. 

The e-mail did not say whether akohol or illegal sub­stances playt>d a factor in the alleged incident. 
The case has been handed over to the St. Joseph County Police Department, according to the statement. 

Sunday's announcement was the third alleged sexual assault on a Saint Mary's stu­dent this semester. The first was reported over Freshman orientation weekend and the second was reported to have occured the weekend of Oct. 29-30. 
In compliance with the Jeanne Cleary Act the College is required to release informa­tion about campus crimes. 
Saint Mary's College security officials were unavailable for comment Sunday night. 
Seniors hurl marshmallows at one another during halftime of Saturdays football game. 
Seniors cheer Irish at final home game 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
The last Notre Dame home game of the season is often bittersweet, but seniors said Saturday's unseasonably pleasant weather and Irish victory over Syracuse made the conclusion of the season more bearable. 
"I thought lthe game] was awesome after the first quarter," senior Amy Locke said. "The marsh­mallow fight at halftime was fun ... and it was especially fun to stay for 
see VICTORYIpage 4 



University, The Copy Shop clash 
By KATE ANTONACCI A~sociate News Editor 
After nearly three months of legal battle, The Copy Shop and the University are still in the midst of a lawsuit, as both sides fight to possess the same space in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. 
On Aug. 26, the University filed a lawsuit in the St. Joseph Circuit Court in Mishawaka against Copy Services Inc. asking the courts for immediate possession of the property. Copy Services inc. operates under the name The Copy Shop. 

"We are not going to com­ment at all from the University while litigation is going on," said University spokesperson 
~ee SUIT/page 6 



Sole black freshman adjusts to College 
the strong academic reputa­tions of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's as she began her college search. 
It was more than the out­standing academic reputa­tion, however, that ultimately compelled Gates to apply to Notre Dame, her first choice between the two schools, and then to Saint Mary's. 
"I've been in band since I was 12, and ever since I was 12 I was like, 'I am going to be in the Notre Dame band,"' Gates said. 
After being denied admis­sion from the University, Gates chose to accept an 80 percent scholarship from Saint Mary's and fulfi II her dream of playing clarinet in 
see STUDENTIpage 6 


By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
No one told Melissa Gates she would be the sole black freshman in a class· of 379 students moving onto the Saint Mary's College campus in August-she knew. 
"They didn't have to [tell me)," Gates said. "Being the type of school it is and the region it is in and how expensive it is, people in my [financial situation] and my background are like 'Wow ­first, I bet I can't even get in and my parents probably can't even pay for it." 
Although she was raised in Midwest City, Okla., Gates was born in Buchanan, Mich., and was well aware of 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Tours not limited to students 
By COLLEEN SHULA 
News Writer 
. 

While many prospective students attend information ses·sions and explore the University through the Admissions Office, other visi­tors drawn to Notre Dame's campus take tours through the Eck Visitors' Center. 
"Notre Dame is a tourist attraction." said Eck Center tour guide Katy Kemnetz, a junior. 
The Eck Center offers tours during the week to awide array of visitors including University benefactors, foot­ball fans and school groups. The center gives free public tours twice a day Monday through Friday, and prescheduled private tours 
are offered daily for  a  $25  
fee.  
Approximately 40  Notre  

Dame students work as tour guides for the Eck Center. Associate Director Jaime Cripe said that for visitors, "to interact with a student is overwhelmingly meaningful." 
The student tour guides enjoy this interaction as well. Sophomore Clint Cyr has been giving tours since May, and said he enjoys meeting people from across the coun­try and around the world. 
"I like the interaction with people of all types and all backgrounds," he said. 
Cripe said since the tours are geared toward visitors rather than prospective stu­dents, the content of the tours tliffers from those of the Admissions tHfice. The Eck Center's tours are more his-
see TOURS/page 6 


Monday, November 21, 2005 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Sex, drugs and ... marshmallows? 

When my grandmom asks me at Thank.o;;giving dinner about my fmal home game at Notre Dame Stadium, I will tell her it was a 42-21 win over Navy. 
This Saturday, for what was supposed to be my final home game as a Notre Dame student, I-a kid who did not go abroad because he didn't want to mio;;s football and basketball -was sitting at Legends, lounging at Turtle Creek apartments, doing my best to forget that an usher had just kicked me out of the Notre Dame-Syracuse game, taken my ticket booklet and acted without any sensibility or inde­pendent thinking while performing hio;; job ... all because I had a bag of marshmallows. 
•There are only two places in the world where a marshmallow is a bad thing-Notre Dame and the city of New York in Ghostbusters. 
What do you think of when you hear the word "marshmallows?" Soft, fluffy and white, right'? Smores, hot chocolate ... having fun. You would never think a bag of marshmallows had the potential to wreak havoc on an entire community, or even worse, ruin a person's day. 
But welcome to my Saturday. I approached Gate E of the Stadium slightly after 2:30 
p.m. wearing my throwback Return to Glory shirt, jeans, a winter hat and a blue winter coat. I had zipped the coat halfWay to conceal a bag of marshmallows inside. I had­n't bought them myself, but I'd found them at a tailgate and decided my final game as a senior should include marshmallows. 
I approached an usher with my ticket booklet and stu­dent identification card in my hands. The usher looked me in the eyes before accepting my tickets or ID and said, "What do you have there?" and pointed to my jacket. 
"A bag of marshmallows," I said frankly. 
He asked for the bag, and I handed it over to avoid unnecessary further discussion. Then the usher grabbed my ticket booklet from my hands without asking for it, and then he walked away. 
I followed him. 
"What are you doing?" I said. 
The usher took the bag and tickets to another usher who told me to leave. I asked why and he said, "Is this your bag of marshmallows?" I said it was. "Then you have to leave." 
If I hadn't been so furious I would have keeled over laughing. Can you imagine watching an episode of Cops with the officers chasing a man through a neighborhood, pinning him against a wall and saying, "Hand over the marshmallows"? 
Confiscating marshmallows is Notre Dame's version of shooting a koala bear. 
"You've got to be kidding me," I said. Were they really not letting me into the Stadium, for my final home game, after having taken my marshmallows? And who in their right minds does not understand that stealing a bag of marshmallows is enough punishment for a 21-year old football fan? 
What was I going to throw in the student section with­out marshmallows? My wallet? "You have to leave," the usher repeated. 
A pair of Notre Dame students and now even better friends ofmine stopped and pleaded with the usher to let me in. 
"He gave you the marshmallows, why don't you let him in?" a fellow senior said. "It's his last home game." 
The usher wouldn't have it. And that's the story of how, after covering countless Notre Dame home games in the press box and on the field, conducting myself profession­ally for three years as a team beat reporter and student and trying my best to represent Notre Dame well to the outside world every day of my life, two men sent me to pack my bags early. 
But I guess they handled the situation correctly. After all, if they hadn't kicked me out, I never would have opened up a bar tab at Legends. And drinking at Notre Dame isn't as big of a problem as marshmallows, is it? 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Pat Leonard 
Managing Editor 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recog­nize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please con­tact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DID YOU FEEL ABOUT THE LAST HOME FOOTBALL GAME? 








Andrew Nesi Veronica Bradham Mike Santos Chris Doughty Ron Kerelegon 
freshman junior senior sophomore freshman Morrissey Cavanaugh Stanford St. Ed's St. Ed's 
"I thought we "I liked the new "I hit Chris "I wept because '"It was looked ugly, but traditions Shane with a I won't see a expected. , 
. , . , 

a wzn sa wzn. they set.·· lot of home game for marshmallows two whole 
in the face and he liked it.·· 


OFFBEAT 
Rare plant draws crowd with odor 
WASHINGTON -Its scent has drawn com­parisons to garbage and spoiled meat, but that isn't stopping crowds from flocking to see -and smell -an unusual plant in bloom at the U.S. Botanic Garden. 
The titan arum plant, nicknamed "corpse plant" for its rank smell, is attracting thousands of visitors during the day or two it remains in bloom. 
"It's quite spectacu­lar: the color and the form and the strong odor," said John Kress, chairman of the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History's botany department, which owns the plant. "I think that's what most people come to see. Or smell." 

The long, conical bloom of the titan arum is believed to be the largest flower that doesn't grow on a tree. It has been known to grow 12 feet high in its native habitat on the island of Sumatra. 
The specimen at the botanic garden, which began blooming early Sunday, is about 5 feet high. 
Now that it's in bloom, the plant has also started emitting a smell that's drawn comparisons to garbage, spoiled meat. and rotting fish. But the plant's stench is actually the key to its survival: carrion bee­tles and other pollina­tors in its native Sumatra are attracted to the smell, Kress said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY a: 
&&.1 ::1: 
~ 
&&.1 
~ 
...I 
<
(.) 


0 

HIGH 35 HIGH 30
...I LOW 27 LOW 27 

,,

years. 
IN BRIEF 

Patrick Toole, vice president of business transformation for IBM's Enterprise on Demand Transformation and 
Information, will give a lecture titled "A Perspective on Engineering and Innovation" today at 12:50 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
Herman Rapaport, profes­sor of English at the University of Southampton, will give a lecture titled "At Loose Ends: Art, Music, and Literature in the '60s" today at 4:30 p.m. in 210 McKenna Hall. It is part of the "Art worlds of the Sixties" lecture series spon­sored by the Department of English. 
David Kay, former head of the hunt for Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, will give a lecture titled "What is the future of non-proliferation?" tonight at 7:30 p.m. in McKenna Hall Auditorium. 
Fabio Ribeiro, associate pro­fessor of chemical engineering at Purdue University, will give a lecture titled "A Discussion of Recent Methodologies to Study Heterogeneous Catalysis" Tuesday at 3:30 
p.m. in 140 DeBartolo Hall. 
R.M. Berry, professor of English at Florida State University, is giving a lecture titled "Did the Novel Die? (and Would We Know?)" Tuesday at 4:40 p.m. It is part of the ''Art worlds of the Sixties" lecture series spon­sored by the Department of English. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsn ews@nd. edu 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 




HIGH 30 HIGH 
27 

LOW 22 LOW 
20 

Atlanta 52 I 41 Boston 55 I 46 Chicago 45/ 33 Denver 57 I 36 Houston 68 I 45 Los Angeles BO I 51 Minneapolis 41 /27 New York 56/50 Philadelphia 57/48 Phoenix 79/53 Seattle 52/41 St. Louis 51/34 Tampa 74/55 Washington 55/48 

Monday, November 21, 2005 page 3
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS 

Faculty named AAAS members 
Professors, Dean honored for their work in science and engineering 
Special to The Observer 
Four Notre Dame faculty members have been named fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) in honor of their work in the fields of biological sci­ences and engineering. 
AAAS, founded in 1848 as a nonprofit organization, is the world's largest scientific socie­ty and publisher of the presti­gious journal Science. The new Notre Dame AAA." fellows are: Nora J. Besansky, professor of biological sciences; Roger K. Bretthauer, professor emeritus of chemistry and biochemistry; Frank P. Incropera, Matthew 
H. McCloskey Dean of Engineering and H. Clifford and Evelyn A. Brosey Professor of Mechanical Engineering; and Wolfgang Porod, Frank M. Freimann Professor of Electrical Engineering. 
Besansky, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1997, was cited for "significant con­tributions to understanding the molecular, population and evo­lutionary biology of Anopheline mosquitoes, major vectors of malaria in Africa." In researching the evolutionary genomics of the mosquito, she uses classical genetic, molecu­lar and bioinformatics approaches to understand the mechanisms behind Anopheline evolution. 
Bretthauer, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1964, was cited for "fundamental studies on biosynthesis and structure of glycosylated pro­teins in eukaryotic cells and in baculovirus-insect and Pichia yeast expression systems." A biochemist specializing in car­bohydrate metabolism and protein biosynthesis, he has done extensive research on gylycoproteins, large molecules containing proteins and sugars whose functions in the body include controlling the interac­tion of cells, and the recogni­tion of other substances by cells. 
Incropera, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1998, was cited for "distinguished contributions to the field of heat transfer and convection and for significant contribu­tions to engineering education as both classroom teacher and engineering dean." A member of the National Academy of Engineering and one of the 100 most frequently cited engi­neers in the world, his research is in the areas of free and mixed convection, double­diffusive convection, boiling and two-phase flow, materials processing and electronic cool­ing. 
Porod joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1986 and is director of the University's Center for Nano Science and Technology (NDnano). He is the co-inven­tor of the Quantum-dot Cellular Automata (QCA) con­cept, a transistorless approach to computing. His research focuses on solid-state physics and its application to electron­ics, quantum devices and architectures for nanoelectron­ics, and the limits imposed by the laws of physics on compu­tation. 
The tradition of AAAS fellows began in 187 4 and this year the association is honoring 376 members as fellows. Currently, members can be considered for the rank of fellow if nomi­nated by the steering groups of the association's 24 sections or by any three fellows who are current AAAS members (so long as two of the three spon­sors are not affiliated with the nominee's institution} or by the AAAS chiefexecutive officer. 

Sister appointed to Providence College 
Special to The Observer 
Dominican Sister Kathleen Cannon, associate dean of the College of Science at Notre Dame, has been appointed to the Board of Trustees of Providence College 
in Rhode Island and elected secre­tary to the Providence College Corporation. 
"We are very pleased to have 

S i s t e r Cannon Kathleen's extensive higher education experience and leadership skills serving Providence College," said Rev. Brian J. Shanley, the recently elected president of the college. "She is a devoted alumna and I 
know she will make  a signifi­ 
cant  contribution  to  our  
board."  

Sister Cannon earned her bachelor's degree in mathe­matics from Ohio Dominican College, a master's degree in religious studies from Providence, and her doctorate in ministry from the Catholic University of America. Prior to coming to Notre Dame in 1990, she served on the facul­ty of Chicago's Catholic Theological Union. She also taught at Albertus Magnus College in New Haven, Conn., where she was chair of the religious studies department, and she has held visiting posi­tions at American University, Princeton Theological Seminary and Notre Dame. 

Also serving in a concurrent appointment as an associate professor of theology at Notre Dame, Sister Cannon's respon­sibilities as associate dean of the College of Science include advising associated with inter­national studies programs of the college, diversity issues, college election and award committees and the joint hon­ors program of the Colleges of Science and Arts and Letters. 
Sister Cannon served Notre Dame as associate provost and a faculty member in the Department of Theology from 1990 to 1997. During her tenure in the Provost's Office, she designed and implement­ed the Distinguished Women Visitors Series, a program that has brought more than 40 senior women scholars to campus for extended visits. She also initiated the Women's Award of Achievement, which in a three-year period recog­nized the achievements and contributions of 18 Notre Dame alumnae from all the colleges, the Law School and the Graduate School; and she pursued and articulated the need for on-campus child care, an initiative that result­ed in the Notre Dame Early Childhood Development Center. 

Monday, November 21, 2005 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Game 
continued from page 1 
the alma mater with the team still on the field, raising their helmets." 
Senior Matt Paluch said the last game proved to be a memorable part of his college experience. 
"I thought [the game] was a great time, especially since the marshmallow fights got off the ground," he said. "I thought [the season] has been a huge success, especially since we weren't expected to be better than .500 ... but [Notre Dame] still need[s] a couple of years to develop before they're a perennial powerhouse." 
Despite being from New York and having several friends who are avid Syracuse 
fans,  senior  Laura  Heslin  
always  remained  a  Notre  
Dame fan.  

"I think it's a great way, as a senior, to go out," she said. "(Charlie Weis] has done such a great job with the team ... and I got to rub [Notre Dame's victory] in my friends' faces." 
Junior band member Jonathan Schuster said Saturday's game did not seem different from the other home games, and that the band put "as m u c h effort into their playing as usual." 
"I think the seniors were sad to see their last home game come to an end," he said. 
Saturday's game also marked the end of the first home football season for the freshman class. 
"There were high expecta­tions for Notre Dame to domi­nate the game, which is actu­ally not what happened.~ freshman Pablo Cruz said. 
Cruz said he could overlook Notre Dame's difficulties early in the game. 
"We still won, which is the way it should be," he said. "(Charlie Weisl wants to start ... a legacy. He wants to bring ND back into its prime as a football powerhouse." 
Many seniors said although this is their last football game as Notre Dame students, they will return for future games. 
"It's always sad to know that the Class of 2006 will never be together for a home football game, but it's comforting that the traditions will continue with classes to come," Locke said. 
Heslin agreed, and said she hopes to continue to take part in Notre Dame traditions ­even after she graduates this spring. 
"I think it's surreal, and I still can't believe it's the last game," Heslin said. "At the same time, it's comforting to know that I'll be able to come back [for future games] ... If it's feasible, I would like to come back every year. [After graduation], my Notre Dame identity will be an important part of who I am." 
Contact Steve Kernins at skerins@nd.edu 


marshmallows] at the gate they didn't get in and the

Ejections 
marshmallows didn't get in. None of them were permitted
continued from page I 
in and we confiscated the booklet." 
Gagnon said "about 15 or Gagnon said the halftime 20" of the 43 students ejected marshmallow flurry probably for marshmallows were never wasn't triggered by the recent allowed in the stadium. drop in temperature -"It 
"The last game of the year was cold, but not much colder seems to be ... well it's a than the week before," he drinking game, maybe a said -but possibly by seniors prank game," Gagnon said. "If mistakenly thinking there we caught [students with would be no repercussions. 
Now at the Wai-Mart Supercenter in Mishawaka 
Next time a common ailment slows someone in your family down, visit MEOPOINT express. We treat a variety of everyday illnesses, from ear infections to chest congestion. And we're conveniently located inside the Mishawaka Wai-Mart Supercenter, so you and your family* can take care of life's necessities with one trip. You simply check in and take a beeper; the family nurse practitioner will page you when it's time for your visit! 
With a pharmacy located inside Wai-Mart, you can even get your prescription filled before you leave the store. 
MEDPOINT express provides quick, affordable and convenient access to high-quality health care. It's one of the latest innovations in Memorial Health System's commitment to creating a healthy community. 
Please note: MEDPOINT express is not intended to treat serious health conditions or injuries. ..Children must be 2years old and older. 
"I think maybe there were some students because of something erroneously reported last year that if you're caught the last game, there is no punishment," Gagnon said. "Obviously you're not losing your ticket booklet, but you're still referred to lthe Office of Residence Life and Housing]." 
Some of the students who weren't permitted into the game "actually got in because Syracuse didn't use all of 
their tickets and there were some tickets floating around outside," Gagnon said. 
"And if they were smart they just sat in those seats," he said. "But some did try to get into the student section." 
Gagnon said the number of non-students ejected from the stadium -92 -was not unusual given the game's 2:30 
p.m. start time. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

What is a Family Nurse Practitioner? 
An Afflltate·.otMenioriai··Heaith· Systerrf· 
Open 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday-Friday 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturday 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday 800..635-5516 www.medpointexpress.com 
0 2005 Memorial Health System 
Afamily nurse practitioner is a registered nurse who has completed a graduate education program in nursing and has achieved further certification by a professional nursing organization. This advanced training means a family nurse practitioner can diagnose many medical conditions and prescribe appropriate medications to help you feel better. 
Write for News. Call 1-5323. 



Monday, November 21, 2005 Corv\PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Terroist arrests made in Morroco 
RABAT -Moroccan police have dismantled a terrorist network, arresting 17 people, includ­ing two former prisoners at the U.S. base in Guantanamo, Cuba, the official MAP news agency reported Sunday. At least some of the suspects were linked to al-Qaida in Iraq. 
Brahim Benchekroun and Mohammed Mazouz -among five Moroccans freed from Guantanamo -in August 2004 were among the suspects. 
They were arrested Nov. 11 at their homes in connection with a probe into ai-Qaida, a Moroccan security official said, among 1 7 impli­cated in the network. The official, not authorized to speak publicly, asked not to be identified by name. 
Information about the network, dismantled before it was fully structured, remained sketchy, and it was unclear when the other arrests were made. 
The top two suspects, Khaled Azig and Mohamed R'ha, were recruiting extremists for their cause, MAP quoted police as saying. Members of the network had links with small groups on the Iraqi border and close ties to lead­ing members of the al-Qaida terror network, MAP reported. 
Sharon leaves Likud Party 
JEHUSALEM -Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon took back the initiative from the rejuve­nated Labor Party, quitting the Likud Party he himself founded in 1973 and striking out on his own -a daring pre-emptive strike before elec­tions set for days after his 78th birthday. 
Fed up with internal Likud opposition after he completed his withdrawal from Gaza, Sharon informed Likud leaders late Sunday that he was leaving to set up his own move­ment. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Six injured in mall shooting 
TACOMA, Wash.-A gunman opened fire inside a busy shopping mall Sunday, wound­ing several people in the halls and taking three people hostage in a music store before police arrested him, authorities said. 
Witnesses described hearing a noise and then seeing a man walking backward through the mall, firing. 
At least six people were injured, one criti­cally, as shoppers and store clerks scrambled for cover. 
Tacoma Police spokesman Mark Fulghum said the suspect, arrested about four hours after the shooting began, was a young man but he had no other details about him or his possible motives. 
Police were interviewing the victims and hostages, he said. 
Radio City union settles 
NEW YORK-The union representing the orchestra for Radio City Music Hall's "Christmas Spectacular" approyed a contract deal Sunday that allowed its musicians to return to work following a bitter labor dis­pute. 
The contract was approved late Sunday afternoon, union spokesman Shawn Sachs confirmed by telephone. 
Neither the union nor Hadio City Entertainment has released details of the long-term deal, which was reached earlier this week with the help of a mediator and the encouragement of Mayor Michael Bloomberg. 
LOCAL NEWS Recycling center in violation 
GHIFFITH, Ind. -Environmental offi­cials have ordered a northern Indiana recycling center to stop accepting solid waste after inspectors found that it was operating more like a trash dump than a recycling center. 
During a recent inspection of Austgen Hecycling lne., workers with the Indiana Department of Environmental Management found the site loaded with 
l'egulated solid waste. 
EGYPT 






Violence and riots erupt at polls 
Opposition supporters clash with police with the start of the second round of voting 
Associated Press 
DAMANHU 
Widespread violence 
marred the second round 
of Egypt's parliamentary 
vote Sunday as opposition 
supporters and police 
clashed with knives, metal 
chains and Molotov cock­
tails, officials said. At least 
one person was killed and 
scores were wounded. 
The violence was in 
sharp contrast to the Nov. 
9 first round of voting, 
which passed in relative 
peace and saw the banned 
opposition Muslim 
Brotherhood party double 
its representation in par­
liament. 
There are 1,706 candi­
dates competing in 72 con­
stituencies in this round of 
elections. 
Late Sunday, the Brotherhood said its count showed most of its 60 can-· dictates had either won seats or gained sufficient votes to participate in run­off balloting Saturday. Interior Ministry officials said a partial tally showed at least six Brotherhood candidates had won out­right. The top two vote getters in constituencies where no candidate wins an outright majority move to the run-ofT. 
No figures were avail­able for candidates of the ruling National 

candidate Mustafa voting. While prohibited vative Saudi Arabia.
Democratic Party or non­Awadallah accused the from formally becoming a The government gener~Islamic opposition contest­government of hiring men political party, the ally tolerates the group,ants. 

to cause trouble outside Brotherhood fields candi­which renounced violencePolice and Brotherhood 
polling stations to create a dates as nominal inde­in the 1970s, but hundreds
supporters exchanged 

pretext for closing them pendents whose sympa­of members have beenaccusations over who 
early. thies are widely known by detained in recent months
started the melees, which 

"This is unbelievable voters. amid increased protests
also involved supporters of government terrorism," he The Brotherhood calls against Mubarak, Egypt'sPresident Hosni Mubarak's said. for implementing Islamic leader for 24 years. 

ruling National The Egyptian law but is vague about The Brotherhood said

Democratic Party. 

Organization for Human what that means. It advo­about 300 people had been
Ibrahim Hammad, a 

Hights also blamed the rul­cates the veil for women arrested across the coun­spokesman for the Interior ing party in a report and campaigns against try on Sunday. The Interior
Ministry, accused the Sunday. perceived immorality in Ministry said hundreds

Brotherhood of using Candidates associated the media, but insists it were arrested, mostly

thugs to intimidate voters 

with the Brotherhood, · represents a more moder­Brotherhood membersand attack other candi­
banned in 1954, won 34 ate faee of Islam than that detained for inciting vio­dates' supporters. 
seats in the first round of followed in deeply conser-lence and rioting.
But the Brotherhood 


IRAQ 

Suspected Al-Qaida killed in· gunfight 
bomb in the south. northea.,tern part of the dty. Associated Press In Wa-;hington, a U.S. official said the During the intense gWibattle that fol­identities of the t.err'or sus peel., killed in lowed, three insurgents detonated 
BAGHDAD -U.S. forces sealed ofl' a the Saturday raid was unkno\\-n. A'iked explosives and killed themselves to house in the northern city of Mosul if they could include al-Zarqawi, the avoid capture, Iraqi officials said. where eight suspected al-Qaida mem­official replied: "There are efforts Eleven Americans were wounded, the bers died in a gunfight -some by their under way to determine if he was U.S. military said: Such intense resist­own hand to avoid capture. A y.s. offi­killed." ance often suggests an attempt to cial said Sunday that efforts were The official spoke on condition of defend a high-value target. under way to determine ifterror leader anonymity because of the sensitivity of American soldiers controlled the site Abu Musab al-Zarqawi was among the the information. Sunday, and residP.nts said helicopters dead. On Saturday, police Brig. Gen. Said flew over the area throughout the day. 
Insurgents, meanwhile, killed an Ahmed al-Jubouri said the raid was Some residents said the tight security American soldier and a Marine in sepa­launched after a tip that top al-Qaida wa'i reminiscent of the July 2003 oper­rate attacks over the weekend, while a operatives, possibly including al­ation in which Saddam Hussein's sons, British soldier was killed by a roadside Zarqawi, were in the house in the Odai and Qusai, were killed in Mosul. 
Monday, November 21, 2005 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Suit 
continued from page 1 
Matt Storin. 
According to Tim Wright, ownN of The Copy Shop in Notre Dame's LaFortune Center, the University want­ed the space because it had already made commitments to FedEx Kinkos, which has already opened a copy center in Grace J[all. 
"This is obviousJy a legal dispute," Wright said. "It started out by the University filing a summons and com­plaint in which the University asked the court to award them immediate possession of the LaFortune Copy Shop space." 
The Copy Shop is an inde­pendent business, not affili­ated with the University. The shop provides copying, scan­ning and faxing services, and handles print jobs for stu­dents, employees, academic departments and other com­munity members. 
The dispute began shortly after Wright sent his lease to the University in January 2005, as he h'J,d done every year since he took over the shop in 2001. 
"A couple months later, the University sent a letter say­ing they did not accept our offer 

to renew," ..The only way the Copy Shop's Wright said. University can lease is valid 
"Now, I sent for the 2005-06
require us to leave
them a letter renewal, the and I said this is ifwe are in judge does not was not an violation ofthe have say over 
offer. It was the whether or not
lease itself." 
exercise of an The Copy Shop option. That's can renew each the basic dis­Tim Wright year or just this pute that the The Copy Shop owner one time, 
University was involved in with us when they filed their com­plaint. They said it was an offer, we said it wasn't." 
For Wright, and former owner Dan Foley, the lawsuit pits them against their alma mater. 
"We shouldn't have had to do this. None of this from my view should have happened at my Catholic University," said Wright, a 196:3 Notre Dame graduate. "One part of it does a superb job in teach­ing what it means to be a Catholic university, but then there's another part of the University that either doesn't get it or doesn't believe it." 
Foley, a triple Domer with a bachelor's degree, master's degree and law degree from the University, started the shop on campus in 1 Y89. 
When Foley started The Copy Shop, a lease was draft­ed and included an "option to renew." Though renegoti­ated in 1998, the option to renew was kept in the lease, Wright said. 
This option gives an owner an explicit option to renew the lease until the owner decides he or she does not do not want the space anymore or until they violate a rule of the lease, such as failing to pay rent. The provision gives the tenant the ability to let the landlord know of his or her intention to exercise the option of renewal and con­tinue to use and occupy the rental premises for the dura­tion of the option period, Wright said. 
"Pre-1989, the University prepared two draft leases in the negotiation process with Dan Foley. Neither of those two leases contained the renewal clauses that are at dispute now," Wright said. "Under both of those drafts the University or the copy shop could walk away with appropriate notice. for any reason or no n~ason at all." 
However, in discussions with Foley, the University agreed to add restrictions, largely because of Foley's large economic investment in the shop. 
"lie needed some guaran­tee that the University would not arbitrarily just pitch him out," Wright said, <~dding that it was at this point that the option to renew was added. "The 1998 lease is the lease that we arc cur­rently under now. Both the 1998 lease and the 1989 lease contain this renewal provision," Wright said. "That language did not change from the first lease in 1989 to the second lease in 1998. It's identical." 
It is under this provision, Wright said, that The Copy Shop renewed its lease for one more year ending June 30, 2006. The lease term is from July 1 to June 30 and it mirrors the University's fis­cal year. 
"The issue, from the University's perspective, is whether or not we properly renewed the lease," he said. 
Though on Sept. 30 a judge 
issued an order 
saying that The 
Wright said. 

"The only way the University can require us to leave is if we are in viola­tion of the lease itself. We have the right to the space ... until they tear the building down," Wright said. 
Wright said, since the law­suit began, The Copy Shop has been treated differently by the University. 
"My affidavit talks about some of the things that the University has done in the interim. There are certain types of conduct that the University has engaged in to try to force us to get out," Wright said. 
Each year, for example, Wright said he worked with the Hammes Bookstore to produce course packets or · course material to be sold to students. This year, The Copy Shop has not been contacted as frequently for such busi­ness. Wright also said that Notre Dame has tried to exclude him from the system allowing individual depart­ments to charge orders to University accounts. 
"With this business what you see if what you get. Ninety to 95 percent of the revenues are through the interdepartmental services. They take that off and we're dead," Wright said. "I filed a motion and asked the court to issue a preliminary injunc­tion to tell the University to stop doing the things they're doing . . . My biggest concern is that the University will drive us into bankruptcy. We're trying to set up anoth­er shop -but our long-term debt won't be paid off for another year and a half." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Tours 
. continued from page 1 
toric;'al in nature and provide information about notable fig­ures like Uninversity founder Father Edward Sorin and important events like the 1879 Main Building fire, she said. 
Kemnetz, who gives tours for both the Admissions Office and the Eck Center, said that on Eck Center tours she talks less about college life and statistics about the student body. 
The tours visit some of the campus' most illustrious land­marks, including the Main Building, Grotto, Basilica, Hesburgh Library and football stadium. Kemnetz said on Eck Center tours she takes the group into the Basilica, but does not do this for Admissions tours. Pre-desig­nated tours go inside the foot­ball stadium during the sum­mer. 

Cripe said the center gives Kemnetz said over the sum­about 1,200 tours over the mer she gave a tour to two course of a year and many dancers from Riverdance who visitors are awestruck by the were visiting South Bend to sites and history of the cam­perform at the Morris pus. Performing Arts Center. After 
"It's been their lifelong the tour they gave her tickets dream to come to Notre to the show. Another time, Dame," she said. members of a wedding party 
Cyr said many took a tour with people are sur­Kemnetz and
·:4 very common
prised by how invited her to big the campus is reaction is people join them at the despite is rela­exclaining how wedding's recep­tively small stu­tion.
beautiful this 
dent body. But Kemnetz "A very com­campus is.,, said she enjoys mon reaction is giving tours for people exclaim­reasons beyond
Clinton Cyr 
ing how beautiful the material ben­
tour guide
this campus is," efits. She said he said. she has learned 
There are perks to gtvmg a lot about Notre Dame's his­tours for the Eck Center as tory and she likes seeing how well. Kemnetz said although people react to the campus. she gets paid the same "People are awestruck," she amount for tours at the Eck said. "It helps keep your own Center as at the Admissions sense of awe in the Office, she is allowed to keep University." tips from these tours -tips as high as $78 on a single Contact Carri Shula at 
tour. cshula@nd.edu 
dream come true for me." In her first semester as an
Student 

undergraduate, Gates has faced challenges typical of
continued from page 1 

college freshmen, including Notre Dame Stadium. roommate conflicts and tough 
"[t's so funny because I classes. She has enjoyed the missed the deadline to turn opportunity to see another lmy application! here, and part of the country and flew they called me and they were for the first time ori a flight like, 'Is she still applying'?'" home for fall break. Gates said. However, while she has 
While her family and made friends through student friends strongly supported groups such as the Saint her decision to leave home Mary's Sisters of Nefertiti. and enroll at the College, Gates has struggled to con-
some acquain-nect with many tances doubted of her class­
"Sometimes I feel 
that she was mates. actually a mem­invisible. They see "I have had a ber of the band. me and they move hard time relat­Gates' mother ing to freshman 
on to the next
took photos of ... because I had
.. 

her wearing her person. to grow up a lot uniform to her faster," Gates former band said.
Melissa Gates 
director as Working since 
student
proof. she was 16, 
"What kind of sometimes as upset me a little was when many as 20 hours a week people didn't believe that I during the school year and w&.s going so far away," Gates more than 40 in the summer, 
said. Gates has long been respon­
The experience of being a sible for paying bills includ­member of the Notre Dame ing car insurance and cell marching band has lived up phone fees. to her highest expectations, Freshmen also tend to trav­Gates said, describing it as el in packs, Gates said, mak­"one big family." Fellow band ing them easily distinguish­members, especially her clar­able from upperclassmen. inet section leader, have Meanwhile, she has been made her feel welcome. largely on her own and has 
"I couldn't image being in become increasingly inde­another band," Gates said. "It pendent. is such a great fit for me. The She recalled one conversa­music is fun. It is definitely a tion in which a fellow student 
described how she maxed out her parents' credit card and was promptly given another one. Never having owned a credit card herself, Gates said she was amazed to dis­cover what was considered "normal" for other students. 
Gates does not feel she has faced blatant prejudiee since arriving at Saint Mary's but said sometimes other stu­dents ask her "patronizing" questions. 
"Some people just ask you 'Oh my gosh, is that your hair?' and 'How did you do that?'" Gates said. "I don't ask you about you your hair." 
If anything, Gates said, she occasionally finds herself "overlooked." 
"Sometimes I feel invisi­ble," Gates said. "They see me and they move on to the next person, and even in band it is sometimes like that." 
Saint Mary's could benefit from a more diverse student body, Gates said. 
"I would probably [tell incoming minority students] just don't be surprised at some of the things people may ask, some of the things people might say and defi­nitely be prepared to meet people from different back­grounds not only to learn from them but to teach them about different ethnic [groups]." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


Monday, November 21, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 766 33 
+46.11

}ones ' • 

S&P 500 1,247.27 +4.47 
f"''KICEittOICYOJ~~~~4;i~aL··•~z+i·•··m~o:o~··• 
FTSf IOO(London) 5,498.90 +38.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -2.01  -0.35  17.02  
NASDAQ II0 TR (QQQQ)  +0.35  +0.14  41.45  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.36  +0.10  28.07  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +1.90  +0.07  3.75  
AMAZON.COM (AMZN)  +2.65  + 1.24  47.98  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0. 99  +0.46  46.92  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.96  +0.43  45.02  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.91  +0.40  44.31  
3-MONTH BILL  0.00  0.00  39.12  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.06  57.21  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -0.70  486.20  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.)  +0.78  88.53  
fxcha  Rates  
YEN  119.1100  
EURO  0.8490  
POUND  0.5828  

IN BRIEF 
GE sells insurance unit 
TAMFORD, Conn. -General Electric Co. 
sold most of its insurance unit to Swiss 
Reinsurance Co. Friday for $6.8 billion in 
cash and stock, completing a strategy to 
leave a troublesome segment and redeploy 
cash to investors and faster-growing busi­
nesses. 
GE, the industrial products, financial serv­ices and media conglomerate based in Fairfield, boosted its dividend and expanded its stock repurchase plan as it announced the deal. 
The sale of most of GE Insurance Solutions 
fulfills a strategy. the company began three 
years ago to sell its insurance businesses. 
Over the last five years, the Insurance Solutions business lost $700 million and required the infusion of $3.2 billion of capi­tal, company officials said. Television soon available online 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Betting that video will drive the future of networking, Cisco Systems Inc. agreed Friday to buy the cable television technology company Scientific-Atlanta Inc. in a $6.9 billion deal that would create a one­stop shop for sending TV over the Internet. 
The acquisition is expected to help fuel the revolution in how TV is distributed and watched -a change that's accelerating as telephone companies barge into the domain of cable operators and begin offering pro­gramming over fiber-optic networks using the language of the Internet. 
New flu treatment approved 
WASHINGTON -Tamiflu is a safe and effective treatment for the flu, federal health advisers said friday, finding no direct link between the drug and the deaths of 12 Japanese children. 
The Pediatric Advisory Committee, which often meets in obscurity, found the world watching on Friday because it was conduct­ing a routine reviPw of a drug that could play an important role in a pandemic caused by bird flu or another superflu strain. 
The eommittee. in a unanimous vote, told the world not to worry. At the same time, though, it said it would continue to monitor any adverse reactions to the drug. 
CHINA 

Trade is focus of visit to China 
Bush makes effort to open Chinese 1narkets to U.S. farmers and businesses 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -Amid con­
cern over a crar-kdown on 
dissidents, President Bush 
pressed China on Sunday 
to expand religious, politi­
cal and social freedom and 
won little more than prom­
ises from President llu 
Jintao to open China's 
huge markets to U.S. farm­
ers and businesses. 
Hu said the two leaders 
sought an outcome of 
"mutual benefit and win­
win results." 
But their meeting Sunday 
at the Great Hall of the 
People on the edge of 
Tiananmen Square 
appeared to produce no 
breakthroughs on ·U.S. 
demands for currency 
reforms in China and no 
details about how China 
would cut its trade surplus 
with the United States, on 
track to hit $200 billion 
this year. 
Bush's two-day China stop -his third as presi­dent to the communist giant -was the center­piece of a weeklong Asia tour, but an acrid debate at home about the war in Iraq has followed him here. While overseas, the White House has not let a day go by without a no­holds-barred verbal coun­terattack against Democratic critics of the president's war policies. 

Bush appeared deter­asked whether he agreed surrender to terrorists She also expressed dis­mined Sunday to scale with an assertion by Vice On Sunday, Bush called appointment with China's back the rhetoric. President Dick Cheney that Murtha a "fine man and a response to a U.S. request Appearing before reporters the critics are "reprehensi­good man." in September for action on at his hotel just before he ble" or others who say ask­"I know the decision to specific human rights attended a lavish dinner ing questions is patriotic. call for the immediate cases -a list Bush with his Chinese hosts, The president chose withdrawal of our troops described bluntly as "dissi­Bush said "I totally reject" Cheney. by Congressman Murtha dents that we believe are the notion that someone Bush also toned down was done in a careful and unfairly imprisoned~" could be called unpatriotic sharp comments by his thoughtful way," the presi­"We've certainly not seen for disagreeing with him. aides about Rep. John dent said. "I disagree with the progress that we would 
"People should feel com­Murtha, D-Pa. The long­his position." expect," Rice said. fortable about expressing time defense hawk's call A Chinese crackdown on No questions from the their opinions about Iraq." for withdrawal of U.S. dissidents before Bush press were permitted dur­he said. "This is not an . troops from Iraq prompted arrived dismayed U.S. offi­ing the joint appearance by issue of who is patriotic the White House to com­cials, and Secretary of Bush and Hu, so the U.S. and who is not patriotic. pare the combat-decorated State Condoleezza Rice president's give-and-take It's an issue of an honest Vietnam veteran to war said the U.S. side would with reporters on his own open debate about the way critic-movie producer continue to raise the issue was scheduled later in part forward in Iraq." Michael Moore and suggest "quite vociferously with the to make a point about 
On Thursday. Bush was Murtha was counseling Chinese government." press freedom. 

Major indexes finish at a four-year high 
October bottoms," said Russ Koesterich, Broader stock indicators reached
Associated Press 

senior portfolio manager at Bardays their highest levels since mid-2001. The 
NEW YORK -A late rebound gave Global Investments. "But there really Standard & Poor's 500 index was up Wall Street modest gains Friday as two are no major catalysts to help support 5.47, or 0.44 percent. at 1,248.27, and acquisitions and upbeat earnings from the market coming into these levels. the N<L'idaq composite rose 6.61, or 0.3 Hewlett-Packard Co. helped lift the "You don't want to read too much into percent, to 2,227.07. major indexes to four-year highs. The a Friday oflate November." he added. Bonds slipped, with the yield on the major indexes had their fourth straight Crude futures fell to five-month lows 1 0-year Treasury note rising to 4.5 per­winning week. although the approaching winter cent from 4.47 percent late Thursday. 
Lower oil prices also help stocks, eas­weather still has many concerned about The U.S. dollar was mostly lower ing worries about consumer spending oil and gas supplies. A barrel of light against other major currencies in ahead of the holiday shopping season. crude dropped 20 cents to settle at European trading, while gold prices But many analysts rcmain.split over $56.14 on the New York Mercantile were little changed. whether thP market will haw its usual Exchange. Although recent reports show the year-end rally, and trading has bPcome At the closr of trading, the Dow Jones nation withstood the blows dealt by erratic as mixed economic and earnings industrial average climbed 46.11. or hurricanes Katrina. Hita and Wilma. data has left investors wondering about 0.4:{ percent. to 10,766.33, after investors continue to be uncertain about the economy's hP-alth. retreating from a 76-point gain earlier future economic growth and corporate 
"You've had a pretty good run ofl" the in the day. profilii. 
THE OBSERVER 
p

page 8 


Monday, November 21, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
When Harry met America 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 465~6 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EmroR 8USINFSS MANAGER 
Par Leonard Paola Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

·ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY's EOJ1UR: Megan O'Neil 
ruoro EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS ED11UR: Graham Ebersch 
AUVERTISING MANAGER: Nick.Guerrieri 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning . 
'CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
· (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4 541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK . 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK · 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(S74) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
Universiry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial coment, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeirher 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of 
the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views 
of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Leuers to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Qt«Stions regarding Ob,-eruer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Hdninger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION • 

The Ub.cC¥<r (USPS 599 2·4000) i5 pubjioftcd Monday through Friday cxc<pt during 
~lUtn..lnd v:acuion p..;riods. A suhs..:riprion to ·me Obstr\'t:t ts$100 tor one ~mit . year; S~~ tOr one semester. 
Th< Ob.c""'r i> publish<d at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Smd addrCS!I corr«t:ions m: 
Nntr< Dome. IN 46556.0779 fh< OW<rver 
l'criodical rv""S< p.oid ., N.:>trc O;unc P.O. Box ?79 
and .idJidona.l mailing oftkcs. 014 South Dining H>ll 
No~re D'"'"· II' 465%·0779 
1ht: Ohscn't1 is -i m~.nther nfthe: ru.-.....:iJtal Prm. Allt't'produaion righu: .a~ rncrvcd. 
TooAv's STAFF 
There aren't many things that can keep a recently-turned-21-year-old like myself away from Thursday night's sacred shrine of strobe lights, shadow dancers and fake IDs: Club Fever. Apart from an F-5 tornado slicing through downtown South Bend or a hip­pie nudist colony taking over campus and forcing everyone to drink electric kool-aid and dance naked to Enrique Iglesias music in the brightly lit Stepan Center, there is no excuse for skipping a Thursday night grind-fest at the Feve. 
Nevertheless. last Thursday rolled around, and I found myself anxiously seated in a packed movie theater awaiting the midnight premiere of the newest Harry Potter film: "The Goblet of Fire." 
The funny thing is, I wasn't alone. Hundreds, if not thousands, of other self-professed nerds and losers had 
· logged on to Fandango.com days in advance to purchase their tickets to one of the numerous midnight show­ings in the area, and most of them still arrived hours early to the theater (some wearing witch hats and robes and dozens sporting Hogwarts-style polo shirts) so that they would get a seat that would put them at eye-level with the scintillating action. 
Best of all, in my particular theater, there were no more than a handful of people under 14 years old in atten­dance to watch a movie about 14-year­old witches and wizards who -when they aren't battling the forces of evil­gossip and cry about who is taking whom to a school dance. Needless to say, this sort of teenage drama is not the subject matter you would expect an audience of 18-30 year olds to yell and whoop about in a movie theater at two in the morning on a Club Fever night. 

Joey 
Falco 
Forty Ounces 

How, then, does nne explain the adult fascination with the Harry Potter series? Why do millions of middle-aged Americans admit to stopping their work lives to devour J.K. Howling's 800-page novels when they are first released? Why does the Harry Potter series rank nearly as high as the Koran on the reading lists of Islamic terror suspects at the U.S. prison at Guantanamo Bay? Why do the first three Harry Potter films all rank in the top 15 on the all-time worldwide gross charts? Why would I choose a roman­tic evening with Albus Dumbledore over an incoherent orgy of booze at the Fever? 
Some avid readers would argue that Howling's stories are simply so magical and full of childhood adventure that they have bewitched America under a spell worthy of a Hogwarts classroom. Still, as exciting as her tales are, Howling's novels do not even come close to matching the adventure and magic present in Tolkien's "Lord of the Hings" series, nor do they compare to the child-hero stories of C.S. Lewis' "Chronicles of Narnia." And as far as literary value is concerned, Howling certainly won't be seeing herself on a list of finalists for the Nobel .Prize for Literature. 
Why, then, have Harry Potter and Hon Weasley replaced cocaine and cof­fee as the most addictive substances in America? And why would grown men and women sacrifice their dignity to show up at a movie theater dressed as storybook characters? It's not like average American adults (English pro­fessors aside) go parading around town dressed as Hamlet or Jay Gatsby or Emma Bovary-and those are at least respectable literary figures. 
The popularity of the stories is also certainly not driven by a fascination with the social commentary imbedded within the plot -the racial undertones that accompany the poor treatment of "muggles" and "half-bloods," the slap at aristocratic supremacists like the neo-Nazi Malfoy family or the attack on materialists like Ilarry's gluttonous aunt, uncle and cousin, to name a few. If Americans really reacted this strong­ly toward social commentary, there would be much higher sales of AI Franken and Hush Limbaugh masks during the Halloween season. 
Why, then, would a series of novels by a formerly unknown British woman convince an American society that is usually too lazy to skim 800-word newspaper columns to read (and re­read) 800-page tomes of literature? 
It cannot possibly be a result of the outcry from conservative Christian groups and Bible freaks around the globe who accuse the Harry Potter series of encouraging children to give up God for the Wicca life of hex signs, cauldrons and broomsticks. If Americans truly only read books as an aet of rebellion against the authorities who attempted to have them banned, then Vladimir Nabokov and J.D. Salinger would still be household names like Howling's. 
The way I see it,. unless Howling truly is a witch who signed her soul away to the devil in return for international fame and fortune, Harry Potter is sim­ply one more example-like "Star Wars," hula hoops, and "TheDa Vinci Code" -of overzealous people turning a cultural success into a social obses­sion by squeezing every bit of life out of it while it is chic. Consequently, by 2010, after the final Harry Potter movie is released and the world tires of consuming her stories. J.K. Howling's name will inevitably fade away into an abyss of nothingness. 
Like her own villain, Voldemort, and scads of other material fads, she will become "She-Who-Must-Not-Be­Named." 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. /lis column appears very other Monday. He can be contact­ed atifalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON ASIA TRIP FOR.TUNE.: SO SORRY. BUT. YOU..lE. STill ST 
ET.,..EE.N 
, IRAQ AN'O A l\AR.t> ?LACE. 

News Graphics .Megan O'Neil Matt Hudson QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Kelly Meehan Sports Laura Bobby Griffin 
·Submit aLetter 
Baumgartner Dan Murphy 
"Character is higher than intellect. 

"It is good to have an end to journey Viewpoint Jason Galvar A grpat soul will be strong to live as 
toward. but it is the journey well as think. " 
that matters in thP end."

Laura Sonn Scene 
to the Editor at
Molly Griffin 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 

Ursula K. LeGuin American author 
American author

,www.ndsmcobserver.com 

LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Anti-wave support 
This is in response to the letter written by Dan Keough in The Observer's Viewpoint section on Nov. 17. I have long felt that "the wave" should not be attempted again at Notre Dame stadium. It was attempted many times while I was a student, but never too successfully. I think it actually made it around the stadium once my senior year. That was the only time I saw it done right. 
My sophomore year, I had the opportunity to go the University of Florida's homecoming and "Gator Growl." They had it down to the science. They could do "the wave" in regular speed, fast forward and slow motion. I have to say, the wave in slow motion is one of the most impressive things I've ever seen in a stadium. 
I agree with Keough, it takes a lot of coordination and effort. And every time we do it wrong, we just embarrass ourselves. We should just focus on being loud, intimidat­ing, and a disruptive crowd. 
That's just my two cents. 
Mathew Vadaparampil alumnus Class of 1994 Nov. 20 
Keep your eye on Congress 
Don't look now, but some lawmakers want to cut bil­lions of dollars from federal student loan programs. That's $14.3 billion in cuts to student aid. Paying atten­tion yet? 
The cuts would give the average student $5,800 more debt on top of the current average debt of $17,500, according to figures from Staff the non-partisan State Public Interest Editorial Research Groups. 
OSUDaily

That should set off a few alarm bells 
Barometer

-even from the other side of the coun­
Oregon State

try. 
University

Fortunately, our student government decided to tune in this week, spreading the word about the possible cuts and hosting a Thursday night forum on the topic. 
Across the country, student activists have made thou­sands of calls to lawmakers to protest the plan. It might be working. 
Thursday night in the U.S. House of Representatives, where the $50 billion savings-also known as a cut­package has been stalled for days, a vote was scheduled to be finished some time after 1 a.m. in Washington, D.C. As of this section's press time, the vote had not finished. 
So maybe there's still time to call up your representa­tives and leave them a nice weekend message. If they've made a decision by the time you read this, call them any­way and let them know how you feel about their vctes. 
Call Republican Sen. Gordon Smith and tell him you'll vote Democrat next time. Call Hep. Greg Walden and tell him how you really feel about having more debt. Maybe you'll have better luck than we did-both offices didn't return calls the Barometer made for a story this week. Perhaps they forgot. 
On top of that, a representative from Smith's office told a Barometer reporter after ASOSU's public forum Thursday night that all of his comments were off the record Here's a fun fact: public comments are on the record. Especially in public forums for constituents. 
Look at who supports the cuts. It's hard not to reduce this to yet another partisan battle. Democrats are united against the cuts, while the mainstream Republicans want to push them through in the name of savings. 
However, some moderate Republicans helped stall the bill last week. There's no telling if student loan cuts had anything to do with the delay, but we can be thankful that some in the majority party have some sense. 
As things fall apart for the Bush administration and Hepublicans lose their grip on Congress, things might start looking up for students. But that doesn't mean it's time to sit back and keep ignoring D.C. Now's the time to tune in and be heard. 
Unless you happen to have that $6,000 just sitting around. 
This editorial first appeared in the Nov. 18 issue of the OSU Daily Barometer. the daily publication at Oregon State University. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
U-WIRE 

Giving thanks 
Four weeks from today will mark the beginning of The theist is, self-evidently, a walking statement of 
Winter Break. Four months, Spring Break. And just belief in a god. Hence, by no more than declaring 
four days separate us from starting to "give thanks" atheism, the atheist has, in some sense, set himself 
-Thanksgiving Break, that is. against and denied the believer his god. 
During a time when names like "Christmas" and Technically, a similar denial would also have to 
"Easter" have proven them­take place on matters of specific doctrine between 
selves too exclusive, Philip the members of two different religions. But because 
Thanksgiving somehow man­Sugg most believers here tend to concern themselves 
aged to escape from the specific with the positive nature of their own beliefs, and 
religious associations that The Chronicle they hold the largest answers in common, conflict 
doomed the two former compan­Duke doesn't rear up so quickly. In contrast, the atheist's 
ions on university calendars. University position may appear to the theist like more of a 
After all, no matter how it (negative) statement about the theist's beliefs than 
began, a holiday that's literally any sort of independently founded idea. The result? 
about "giving thanks" wouldn't seem to place any­Guards are immediately raised-on both sides. 
one atthe risk of becoming an outsider. It's possible This thought experiment's exact outcome would 
to be thankful even ·without a god-which is cru­depend somewhat on our understanding of atheism, 
cial, since it's no secret that quite a few people in but it would seem fair to state that atheism and the­
universities have foregone exactly that. ism involve a psychological dynamic of confronta­
A place like ours is one of few where a topic like tion that is stronger than that between particular atheism can be raised seriously, yet even here, the faiths. discussion about who (if anyone) is "getting our But writing at such length over a subtle tension thanks" isn't without its own sort of uneasiness. overshadows how smoothly the majority on campus Atheism as a religious ideology-or, perhaps, lack has dealt with it. This ability to tolerate apparently ofideology -gets an unusual fundamental differences is reception insofar as, a per­nothing particularly new; col­son's mere announcement of lege environments have long 
Thanksgiving somehow 
atheism is often taken as an diminished the emphasis on
managed to escape from the
accusation. "correct" beliefs in favor of Bring almost any two sorts specific religious associations their practical effects. of believers on campus togeth­A 1923 essay titled "Religion 
that doomed the two former 
er and, no matter how much and the Young Generation," 
companions [Christmas and
they may differ, they're written by a Williams College unlikely to see any major rea­Easter] on university professor, notes that "The old­son to distrust one another. fashioned prayer-meeting has
calendars. 

But any sort of meeting indeed been given up ... between the atheist and [Students] spend evenings believer has to deal with teaching English or arithmetic another layer of complication. In this university to newly arrived immigrants, or their Saturday community, whenever belief clashes with unbelief, afternoons directing a Boys' Club, or they study the issue usually isn't about whether the atheist social conditions with a view to the betterment of "can have morals" or is blasphemous; today, it's society and prevention of evil." Looks like we'll suspicion of condescension that causes problems. always have more in common with our grandpar­One side is conscious of being typed out as "naive" ents-and great-grandparents-than we think. or "stupid," and the other as "lacking imagination" Yet if many of us, believers and non-believers or being "cold-hAarted." alike, have managed to coexist so well, it may be 
Today, if we were to debate the specific merits of precisely because we know about grandparents ­different faith doctrines and deities, our specula­which means, we know how long it takes to get tions would almost certainly end in irresolvable there, how much the conditions and quality of life reflections on a person's circumstances, upbringing, can change, how atheism is still something ofa joke etc. But a debate over belief or unbelief threatens to during idyllic college years, how faith is still largely dig up sensitive questions of a more invidious kind untested, and how on most days, especially -over qualities like a person's intelligence, maturi­Thanksgiving, these distinctions matter very little. ty or even courage. And few people enjoy feeling like they're held in secret, sneering contempt. This column first appeared in the Nov. 18 issue of 
This fear of contempt also springs from the very The Chronicle, the daily publication at Duke structure of atheistic disbelief itself. Disbelief works University. through negation. When presented with any state­The views expressed in this column are those of ment of belief in a god, the atheist must, if pushed the author and not necessarily those of The for an answer, admit that he finds cause to deny it. Observer. 
Nothing wrong with a little flirting 
I love to flirt almost as much as I love being flirted with. \-Vho does­n't like to feel at least a little desir­able every now and then? 
There are lots of reasons to flirt. One, it relaxes people. I know Tammy if I flash a big Ratcliff smile at some­one and say 
Daily
something a lit­
O'Collegian
tle risque, the 
Oklahoma 
anxiety in the 
State 
room goes 
University
down a notch. 
Secondly, flirt­ing is a confidence booster, not just to the flirter, but also to the flirtee as well. Everyone wants to feel irresistible. 
Thirdly, flirting is a good way to get to know people. Try telling someone you like their biceps or their bookbag and just see how they respond. 
Are they confident? Embarrassed? Do you like them even more now or not at all? How 

someone takes a compliment is a 
big indicator ofwho they are. 
Fourthly, and this is only if you are a skanky ho, which I am not, flirting with someone who is attached can bring out the worst in their significant other, thus making you look even better. 
Flirting with someone is basical­ly harmless. 
It's fun and keeps things exeit­ing. If you are dating a flirter, don't be alarmed. Itjust means you are with someone who is comfortable with him or herself and who likes to make other people feel that way too. 
Flirters are the people who make parties more fun, the work­day less stressful and college life more hopeful. Flirting is usually very innocent. It's a testing ground for real love and a litmus test tor compatibility. 
If done properly, it can also be a good indicator of sense of humor, which is a big deal, at least for me. I know ifsomeone doesn't laugh at my jokes, for instance, they aren't for me. 
If you don't get each other's sense of humor, then it's probably not a good match. Who want<> to sit around with someone and explain everything that comes out of his or her mouth? Either they get it or they don't. 
So flirt away, my fellow colle­gians. See where it gel'> you or doesn't get you. Just remember that flirting is subtle, not harass­ing. Respect others and hopefully they will respect you. Have fun and good luck! 
This column first appeared in the Nov. 18 issue ofthe Daily ()'Collegian. the daily publication at Oklahoma State University. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

page 10 Monday, November 21, 2005 
SHOW REVIEW 

Asian Allure blends culture, entertainment 
By CHRIS MCGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 

Heflecting on the past, looking into the future but always living in the present. That was what Asian Allure 2005 set out to do, and that is exactly what was accomplished. The annual show, this year accurately titled "Reflections," is showcased as a celebration of Asian cul­ture ranging from the style of the bustling cities of Japan to the soothing hula dances from the wind-swept shores of Hawaii. 
The performance was a visual and cul­tural feast, fully immersing the viewers in a stunning portrayal of Asian and Asian-American culture. There were also · showings by the Vietnamese Student Association, the Filipino American Student Organization, the the audience with humorous banter and a handful of well-placed jokes. Gabriel and Gacad controlled the audience with a casual yet commanding stage presence. The duo's appearances were just enough to guide the audience through the show without detracting from the focus of the performances. 
One of the fan favorites was the per­formance of a "Hollywood-style" dance. Bollywood is an Indian musical movie genre and is immensely popular in many parts of the world. Sophomore Sheena Plamootil was one of the lead dancers in this act and has been performing and daneing in this style since she was young. 
"It is so fun performing on stage with everyone cheering you on. Showing peo­ple something they haven't seen before is exciting," Plamootil said. 
Thf~ Hollywood performance, which 
was done under the 

Chinese Culture Society, Indian Association of
Asian Allure

the Hawaii Club, the Notre Dame as well Indian Association of Sponsored by: Asian as the Pakistan Notre Dame, the Pakistan American Association Student Association, Student Association, and Date: Friday, Nov. 18 was obviously careful­several other groups and Venue: Washington Hall ly planned and was an 
clubs. There were a series of "fashion shows" in which student-models showcased cul­tural outfits. These outfits ranged from traditional kimonos and masks to mod­ern clothing such as business apparel and clothing inspired by today's "hip-hop culture." 
Students Camille Gabriel and Angelo Gacad emceed the show and delighted 
immediate crowd 
favorite. The group practiced three times a week leading up to the show, and during the week imme­diately before the show met every night. . The hard work paid off as the dance 
went ofT flawlessly. 
Another fan favorite was the perform­
ance of "Matrix Ping-Pong" by the Asian 
American Association. In this piece, two ping-pong players acrobatically engaged in a match with the help of several stage crew members. The stage crew lifted the players, tilted the table, and controlled the ball (attached to a stick) to simulate a game which was designed to remind the crowd of the time-lapse sequences in "The Matrix" movie series. The result was an impressive display of precision and visual tricks that had the audience on their feet. 


The show set out to ultimately show­case the proud Asian culture held by many of the members of the Notre Dame community and accomplished just that in the process. 
The choice of "Reflections" as the theme of the show was ideal and the show fully reflected to the audience just what Asian and Asian-American culture is all about. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 


ARTS ON CAMPUS 



THE OBSERVER 
E

Monday, November 21, 2005 


page 11 

MOVIE REVIEW 

"Azkaban," Newell manages something Newell is helped by the fact that the This allows the film to flow better, but By MOLLY GRIFFIN that hasn't yet been achieved in a stars of the series have grown into it will also provide some confusion for 
Assistant Scene Editor "Harry Potter" film -economy. Chris much better actors, as well as the fact those who are unfamiliar with the 
Columbus, director of the first two that "The Goblet of Fire" introduces an details of the novel. 
Since its release, one question has films, was so faithful to the books as to array of interesting new faces. The The movie builds toward its terrifying surrounded the book, "Harry Potter make the movies dreadfully slow. Even three actors at the heart of the series climax, long-anticipated by "Potter" and t_he Goblet of Fire" -how is any­Cuaron was guilty of dragging out -Daniel Radcliffe (Harry), Emma fans because it finally introduces_,. one going to adapt this 734-pagc behe­scenes and including too much infor­Watson (Hermione) and Hupert Grint Voldemort as a physical presence. The moth of a children's novel into a palat­mation from the books. (Ron) -do a fantastic job with the film ~oesn't disappoint -the conclu­able film? Newell cuts the film down to an excit­darker material and the added trials of sion is terrifying and justifies the film's 
While the book is one of the most ing, less ponderous movie. While the adolescence in the story. Other charac­PG-13 rating. Halph Fiennes does a popular in the "Harry Potter" series first few scenes don't gel perfectly and ters like Neville L(mgbottom, Cedric fantastic job in the part, and there is and the pivotal fourth book in a seven seem jerky, the film Diggory, Fleur none of the let-down that usually fol­book series, it is a web of complex sub­eventually coheres. Delacour and lows the revelation of an unseen char­
Harry Potter and the
plots and character development. The movie focuses Viktor Krum add acter, particularly villainous ones. Thankfully, first time "Potter" director almost exclusively Goblet of Fire dimension and While not necessarily the artistic Mike Newell manages to par the book on the magical 
humor to the film achievement of Cuaron's "Azkaban," down to a film that is both well-plotted Triwizard without requiring "The Goblet of Fire" does what has so and faithful to the heart of the novel. Tournament, elimi­too many bulky far proved elusive in the "Harry Potter" 
Fears surrounded Newell taking the nating the lengthy subplots. series -adapting the book instead of helm of the "Harry Potter" series, as passages on the Director: Mike Newell "The Goblet of trying to create an exact replica of the his directorial experience was limited Quiddich World Writer: Steven Kloves Fire," with its novel on screen. While there is no to more adult films like "Four Cup, Harry's time Starring: Daniel Radcliffe, Emma dependence on doubt that some fans will be disap­Weddings and a Funeral" and "Donnie with the Dursleys Watson and Rupert Grint characters, truly pointed with just how much had to be Brasco." This was compounded by the and Mrs. Weasley requires some removed from the film, the movie is fact that Alfonso Cuar6n's "Harry and Hermione's familiarity with truly better because of the risks the Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" crusade for house elves. Without these the "Harry Potter" universe and the writer and director were willing to was regarded as the best of the series distractions, the film's action builds book itself. Characters aren't always take. and an artistic achievement in its own rapidly and without deviation, which introduced, and viewers are expected right. makes for an ultimately more enter­to understand their back-stories in Contact Molly Griffin at 
While not as artistically shot as taining movie. order for certain things to make sense. mgriffin@nd.edu 
A NIGHT OF MAGIC 

It seems that seeing a movie should be the same no matter when or where you see it, since, by their very nature, movies never change. There is something to be said, though, for seeing a movie the night it opens, espedally a movie like "Ilarry Potter." It's not so much a matter of the movie being different but instead is a result of the audience being particularly concen­trated with fans. 
Mugglenet.com, a Web site started by Notre Dame freshman Emerson Spartz, spon­sored a midnight showing of "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire" film this past Thursday at the Cinemark 14 movie com­plex. Included with the ticket were a food voucher, a T-shirt and a chance to <>ne a 

normal night at the movies become a par­
ticularly inten~sting experience. 
Getting tickets to the event required reservations, advanced payment and show­ing up to the theatre early, whieh showed just how desirable passes to this advanced screening were. On arriving at the theatre, there were masses of people waiting to get seal<> and a general air ofexcitement in the complex. 
A large number of people were in "I larry Potter" inspired T-shirts, including a group ofpeople in self-made "Irish Quiddich" uni­forms. There were also a number ofshirL<> revealing allegiance to the Gryflindor bouse (where Harry lives) and, naturally, a huge number ofpeople showing their "Potter" pride by sporting their free Mugglenet.com shirts. 
Some individuals went a step further and dressed up for the showing. Round glasses, lightning scars and striped scarves abound­ed, as well as people in robes and others carrying homemade wands. 

Prior to the film's start, Mugglenet.com founder Spartz spoke about his experiences with running a "I larry Potter" website, from why he started it to what has hap­pened to him as a result of the project. lie discussed meeting J.K. Howling, author of the "Potter" series, and his visiL<> to several of the movie sel<> and premiers. 
The intensity of the "Harry Potter" fans in attendance was then revealed with a trivia contest. Questions were beyond the knowledge of mere fair-weather "Potter" fans and included such diflicult queries as "What fc:>rm does Hermione's Patronus take?" (An Otter). 
The real fun started when the film began. The hard-core audience was very engaged with the ftlm, which resulted in a less than quite viewing environment, but it also made the movie much more interactive. 
The minute Cedric Diggory, a favorite character among fans, appeared on screen there were a number of catcalls. The clear­ly tense relationship between Hermione 
and Hon received equal attention from the 
rapt audience. There wnre cheers when 
Ilarry succeeded in his triaL-; during the 
Triwizard tournament and there was more than a little bit ofwhispering when Harry appeared without his shirt on. 
The film ended to applause from the audienee, and there was an excited buzz running through the theatre as everyone began discussing what had just happened in the movie. 
While a few lines in the film may have been missed because of the vocal audienee, the sheer excitement ofseeing a film with a group of people so completely engaged with it, to the point of dressing up and making shirts, is just something that can't be missed. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgrijfin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Monday, November 21, 2005 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 
Seahawks hangs on to move to the top of the NFC 
Eli Manning's three t-ouchdowns and fourth quarter cornposure leads Giants over Eagles in NFC East rivalry game 
Panthers, Chicago's sixth
Associated Press straight win. ''I'm playing as well as any­SAN FRANCISCO -When Ken body," Vasher said. "Our defense Dorsey's final pass took an is playing as good as -if not unlucky bounce, the Seattle better-than anybody." Seahawks avoided yet another The NFC South-leading collapse -and escaped San Panthers (7 -3) saw their six­Francisco with the NFC's best game win streak end. After scor­"-record. ing at least 20 points in every Shaun Alexander rushed for game, they managed 238 yards 115 yards and two touchdowns, against the NFL's No. 1 defense, and the Seahawks stopped the and quarterback Jake 49ers' 2-point conversion Delhomme was sacked eight attempt with 28 seconds left in times. their sixth straight victory over Vasher's first pick led to a 3­San Francisco on Sunday. yard touchdown reception for Matt Hasselbeck was 19-of-31 former Panther Muhsin " for 233 yards and one TD as the Muhammad, and the second league's most prolific offense resulted in a 33-yard field goal dominated the first three quar­by Robbie Gould in the first ters, racking up 357 total yards. quarter. The second-year pro But Seattle {8-2) stalled in the has six interceptions. fourth quarter, managing just 16 Adewale Ogunleye tied a yards and no first downs -and career-high with three sacks, awakening memories of the and Alex Brown added two and franchise's lengthy history of forced two fumbles for the Bears embarrassing midseason losses. {7-3). With coordinator Ray Rhodes Muhammad had six receptions back home in Seattle after his for 49 yards and a touchdown second stroke-like episode this against his former team but season, the Seahawks defense dropped several passes. Justin nearly blew a victory that put Gage caught seven balls for 81 them alone atop the conference yards. after Carolina's loss to Chicago. Thomas Jones ran for 87 yards Dallas, which defeated Detroit. tory over the Cincinnati Bengals. Dallas needed the help The 49ers {2-8), whose offense on 25 attempts after missing last "After the first three quarters, Indianapolis became the 17th because its offense wasn't click­has been terrible all season, week's 17-9 victory over San you have a feel for what a team team to go 10-0 and the first ing. Drew Bledsoe threw for a nearly rallied from a 15-point Francisco with sore ribs. Kyle is doing," said Manning. "It since Denver in 1998. With the season-low 110 yards and didn't deficit in the fourth quarter with Orton was 15-of-26 for 136 seems like once we get into the Colts' defense faltering for the have a touchdown pass for the backups making most of the big yards, a touchdown and inter­fourth quarter, we realize we've first time, it was up to Manning first time. Julius Jones returned plays. After snapping a streak of ception. got to step up and make the to protect that perfect record. to the starting lineup and ran for 47 consecutive possessions with­plays." The Bengals (7-3) couldn't stop 92 yards, but lost a fumble and
NY Giants 27, Philadelphia 17 
out a touchdown earlier in the With third-string quarterback him until it was too late. was stuffed three straight times
EAST RUTHEHFORD, N.J.­
game, San Francisco made a Mike McMahon playing a gutsy Manning went 24-of-40 for 365 from the 1.
Barely more than a full season
last-ditch, 13-play scoring drive game in place of injured yards with one interception, call­Still, the Cowboys (7-3) domi­
into his NFL career as a starting
stretching nearly 6 minutes. Donovan McNabb, the Eagles (4-ing plays at the line that more nated the clock, didn't have any
quarterback, Eli Manning is
Dorsey, who passed for 249 6) trailed 20-17 in the fourth often than not found a soft spot other turnovers and allowed
practically immune to fourth­
yards in his second start of the quarter after McMahon's 1-yard in Cincinnati's harried defense. only one sack to win their third
quarter pressure.
season, was 6-of-8 for 77 yards touchdown run. Earlier in the Edgerrin James ran for 89 yards straight and fifth in six games.
Kept in check for most of three 
in the series, and Jason drive, he juked and jived a Ia and a pair of touchd0wns. This one also gives them more
quarters by the Philadelphia
McAddley went 29 yards on his McNabb on a 12-yard run on wins than they had last season.
Eagles, Manning threw two of Dallas 20, Detroit 7 
first reception of the season. third down to keep the drive
his three touchdown passes in IRVING, Texas -Bill Parcells Cleveland 22, Miami 0 
Third-string running back alive, leaving several Giants
the fourth quarter, including a warned the Dallas Cowboys that CLEVELAND -The official
Maurice Hicks finished it with a defenders clutching at air.
61-yarder to Plaxico Burress the Detroit Lions might be a distance: 75 yards. The official
1-yard dive, stretching over the Then Manning and Burress
that helped the Giants pull away "trap" game. The way they time: 18 seconds. Reuben
goal line. went to work. On third-and-2 at
to a victory Sunday. played, it could've been-if only Droughns, though, will remem­
But on the 2-point conversion the Giants 39, Burress gave a
The play followed a familiar the Lions had stopped getting ber the best run of his NFL 
attempt, Dorsey bounced a hitch-and-go move to Sheldon
script for Manning and the flagged. career to this point as going on
tough throw to Johnnie Morton Brown, and when the corner­
Giants this season. Against Marion Barber III ran for two forever.
in the back of the end zone. back fell for it Manning lofted a
Dallas and Minnesota he threw short touchdowns and Billy Showing elusiveness, power·­
Marquand Manuel recovered the pass to the streaking Burress.
touchdown passes in the final Cundiff kicked a franchise­and savvy, Droughns scored on a
onside kick, and the Seahawks He outran Brown to the end
minutes to tie games New York record 56-yard field goal a day 75-yard run on Cleveland's first
kneeled on their fifth straight zone with 5:241eft. 
eventually lost. In between, he after rejoining the club, giving play and finished with 166 yards 
victory over San Francisco. 
threw a winning touchdown pass Indianapolis 45, Cincinnati 37 the Cowboys a victory over the as the Browns put together their Chicago 13, Carolina 3 against Denver in the final sec­CINCINNATI -Carson Palmer penalty-magnet Lions. most complete game this season, CHICAGO -Nathan Vasher onds. and Chad Johnson didn't have to Detroit was penalized 1 7 times a rout of the Miami Dolphins. didn't set a record this time -Sunday's pass to Burress came drive to Indianapolis for this les­for 129 yards and n-ine first On the Browns' first snap, ,' he set the tone. with the Giants leading 20-1 7, son. They can't beat Peyton downs. Each of Dallas' four scor­Droughns started right, spun left 
One week after returning a but it was just as important for a Manning in a game of one­ing drives included a failed third and darted for daylight. Picking missed field goal a record 1 08 team that hadn't defeated its upmanship. down that became a first down up a few blocks, he ran as fast yards, Vasher intercepted two NFC East nemesis in the last Manning threw three touch­thanks to a penalty against the as he could for 50 yards and passes, and the North-leading four meetings. The victory also down passes in an offense that Lions. slowed near the sideline. He Bears stamped themselves as a helped the Giants {7-3) surpass reached the end zone on its first "Hey. we appreciate that." then zigged right, zagged left contender in the NFC on Sunday their 2004 win total and remain five possessions Sunday, and the Cowboys safety Roy Williams and jogged into the end zone, with a victory over the Carolina tied atop the division with Colts stayed unbeaten with a vic-said. giving the Browns a quick lead. 

The Obst:rver accepts classifit:ds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.rn. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HaiL Deadline for next-day classitieds is 3 p.m . .Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit . all classifieds for contem without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES 908 SB Ave: Roomy 6·7 bdrm HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 New 3·4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 FOR LEASE home 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, w/d, bdrms includes all utilities, local Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace, Days from $299! Includes Meals, FoR RENT FOR THE 06/07 SCHOOL YEAR. broadband internet incl. Avail. 06-07 phone, washer/dryer, Cathedral Ceilings, 1Ox20 Deck, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, CLOSE TO CAMPUS. & 07·08 school year. security system. Close to Campus. $1700 monthly. Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! WALK TO SCHOOL 4 BEDROOMS, 327 Hill St: $400/student Available Aug. 06/07, Call 574·232-Campus Reps Needed! 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES UP TO 1 0 BEDROOMS. NEED A HOME TODAY? 574-315-2509 4527, 269-683·5038. PromoCode:31 www.springbreak-MMMRENTALS.COM CALL NEED A SECOND CHANCE? ndstudentrentals.com travel .com 1-800-678-6386 532-1408 315-5032 Very nice 3 bdrm home. 2006 SPRING SEMESTER NOW 
ASK FOR KRAMER. Close to ND & Corbys. AVAILABLE. PERSONAL Area Houses and Apartments Broadband internet option. WANTED for rent. GREAT HOUSES W/D & alarm system ava1L Closest house to campus. \ UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Log on to GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS Move in today. 2-min. walk to library. Do not go it alone. If you or some· HOLIDAY HELP $17.25 base-appt MichianaRentals.com 06107 & 07/08 Call Joe Crimmins Fully furnished,new carpet & appli-one you love needs confidential flex. schedules, cust. sales/service, Call 574·993-RENT (7368). andersonNDrentals.com 574-229-3659 or email ances. 2-car garage. support or assistance. please call no exp. nee., cond. apply. all ages 
574·233·9947 JCrimmins@ myLandGrant.com Avail Now. Sr. M.L Gude. esc. at 18 & older, Call Now, Start After 123 ND Ave. 3 bdrm,1.5 bath. Just bring clothes. 1·7819. Finals! South Bend 574-273-3835 Call Stop overpaying for rent. 3·6 BDRM HOMES FOR 06/07. John 949·456-0343. For more information, see our bi-Indianapolis 317 ·253-2734 
574-229-0149. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com ALSO NOW329-0308 $895. weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. Bloomington 812-330-1104 

OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Monday, November 21, 2005 c(),l\tPHED FRoM THE OBsERVER's \VIRE srRvtcEs page 13 
A.P. Football Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  usc  10-0  1,586  
2  Texas  10-0  1,550  
3  LSU  9-1  1,449  
4  Penn State  10-1  1,390  
5  Virginia Tech  9-1  1,283  
6  NOTRE DAME  8-2  1,281  
7  Ohio State  9-2  1,249  
8  Oregon  10-1  1,107  
9  Auburn  9-2  1,101  
10  Miami  8-2  981  
11  UCLA  9-1  932  
12  West Virginia  8-1  862  
13  Georgia  8-2  857  
14  Alabama  9-2  723  
15  TCU  10-1  722  
16  Fresno State  8-2  663  
17  Louisville  7-2  522  
18  Texas Tech  9-2  448  
19  Florida  7-3  384  
20  Georgia Tech  7-3  347  
21  Boston College  8-3  319  
22  Michigan  7-4  235  
23  Florida State  7-3  214  
24  Wisconsin  8-3  160  
25  Clemson  7-4  141  

ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team record points 
1 usc 11-0 1,536 2 Texas 10-0 1,501 3 LSU 9·1 1,415 4 Penn State 10-1 1,344 5 Virginia Tech 9-1 1,277 6 NOTRE DAME 8-2 1,185 7 Ohio State 9-2 1,137 8 Oregon 10·1 1,102 9 Auburn 9-2 1,025 10 Miami 8-2 990 11 UCLA 9-1 970 12 West Virginia 8-1 881 13 Georgia 8-2 797 14 Alabama 9-2 727 15 TCU 10·1 704 16 Fresno State 8·2 543 17 Texas Tech 9-2 525 18 louisville 7-2 520 19 Florida 7-3 383 20 Boston College 8-3 345 21 Florida State 7-3 341 22 Wisconsin 8-3 218 23 Michigan 7-4 158 24 Georgia Tech 7-3 149 25 Iowa State 7-3 135 
Men's Big East Basketball 
team total W-L 
1 West Virginia 2-0 
2 Cincinnati 1-0 
3 Connecticut 1-0 
4 Georgetown 1-0 
5 louisville 1·0 
6 NOTRE DAME 1-0 
7 Pittsburgh 1-0 
8 Rutgers 1·0 
9 South Florida 1-0 
10 St. John's 1-0 
11 Villanova 1-0 
12 Syracuse 3-1 
13 Seton Hall 2·1 
14 Marquette 1-1 
15 Providence 0·0 
16 DePaul 0-1 

around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Arizona vs. Kansas 9:00'p.m., ESPN 
Iowa vs. Kentucky 9:00 p.m., ESPN2 

NFL Minnesota at Green Bay 9:00p.m., ABC 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL 


Associated Press 
LSU and Penn State each moved up a spot in The Associated Press Top 25, taking advantage of Miami's loss to move behind unbeaten Southern California and Texas. 
The Tigers were No. 3 with 1,449 points in the media poll Sunday, ahead of the Nittany Lions' 1,390 points. 
Penn State coach Joe Paterno's resurgent team, which had won a total of seven games the past two seasons, won his second Big Ten title on Saturday 

with a 31-22 victory at Michigan State. The Nittany Lions (1 0-1) will play in the Bowl Championship Series for the first time and they'll do it with their highest rank­ing since they were No. 2 entering November of 1999. 
LSU (9-1) beat Mississippi 40-7 and needs only a victory over Arkansas to earn a spot in the Southeastern Collference title game Dec. 3. 
Top-ranked USC sur­vived another scare, defeating Fresno State 50­42 for its 33rd straight vic­tory. The Trojans have run their record streak of No. 1 rankings to 31 straight polls, but their fight to the finish against the Bulldogs cost USC six first-place votes. 
USC (11-0) received 50 first-place votes, and 1,616 points. No. 2 Texas, which has been on the Trojans' tail since the preseason, received 14 first-place votes and 1,550 points. 
Jeff Parson of the Wichita Eagle in Kansas switched his first-place vote from USC to Texas this week, because the Longhorns haven't played as many close games as 
the Trojans. 
"Another factor for me is how good Ohio State is playing," he said. "Texas won at their place and I think that's even more impressive than [USC's] Notre Dame victory. 
"It's really close to me but if they played right now I'd favor Texas and this is the firs time I've felt this way." 
The Longhorns (1 0-0) were ofT Saturday and play next at Texas A&M on Friday. The Trojans are off until Dec. 3, when they play UCLA. A USC-Texas Rose Bowl for the national championship still looms. 
IN BRIEF Stewart wins second 
NASCAR championship . 
OMESTEAD, Fla. -Tony Stewart was smooth and steady for an entire race. An entire season. An entire championship run. 
Stewart cruised to his second NASCAR championship in four years Sunday. capping an uncharacteristi­cally calm season for the former Bad Boy. lie won races, kept his temper in eheck and avoided every major incident long enough to cement him­self as one of the greatest drivers of his timn. 
Needing only to run a clean race at Homestead-Miami Speedway, he hov­ered just outside the top 10 and away from any potential danger. He ended up 15th, winning the ti~le by 35 points over Greg Biflle, who won the race for the seeond straight year by besting teammate Mark Martin in a door-to-door finish. 
Stewart became just the 14th driv­er in NASCAH history with more than one championship and joinf'd four-

time winner Jeff Gordon as the only active drivers with multi~le titles. Patriots' Belich1ck leads 
team after father's death 
FOXBOHOUGII, Mass. -Steve Beliehick, the father of Nf~w England Patriots head coach Bi11 Belichick, died Saturday night of heart failure. lie was 86. 
"I coached this game with a heavy heart." B iII BeI i e hick said after Sunday's 24-17 win over thl~ New Orleans Saints. "My dad passed away. I found out about it the middle of last night." 
The Patriots~ cvach learned his meticulous game preparation by watching his father, an assistant coach at Navy for 33 years. 
"Obviously, he had a tremendous inf1uence on my life personally, and particularly in the football aspect," Bill Belichick said. "It was great to bt> able to share the tmnwndous nwmo­rics with him and some of our recent successes." 
Patriots owner Hobert Kraft pre­
sented Belichick with the game ball after Sunday's game in honor of his father's mt~mory. 
"I know how important his father was to him, having him (Steve) here at training camp every year," quar­terback Tom Brady said. "And he was a great man and he raised a great son. " 
Colts' Harrison reaches 
milestone in win Sunday 
CINCINNATI -Colts reeeiver Marvin !Iarrison reached 900 career catches Sunday fastPr than anyone in NFL history. 
Harrison reached the mark with his second catch against the Cincinnati Bengals, a 3-yard loss on a screen late in the second quarter with the Colts already up 28-1 7. 
Jerry Hice reached the milestone in 168 games, previously the fastest to get there. Harri-son made it in his 149th game. Only five other recPivers -Hie•'. Cris Carter,'Tim Brown. Andr(' Heed and Art Monk -have caught 900 passes. 
Monday, November 21, 2005 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Kurz emerges as strong force on the inside for Irish 
There is a member of the Notre Dame men's basketball team who has made 17 of his 21 shot attempts in preseason and regu­lar season play. They're the sta­tistics of a sharpshooter. evoking the image of a guard who drains threes from deep. 
Hob Kurz isn't a sharp­shooter by any means. And it would­n't be fair to evaluate the sophomore's performance after two exhibition games and his first career college start. But so far the 6-foot-9, 238-pound power forward has shown no signs of being anything less than reliable on the court -his shooting . numbers provide only one exam­ple. 
Kurz is maximizing the min­utes he sees, which serve's Notre Dame well because ofcoach Mike Brey's numerous options at virtually every position and his 
MEN'S SWIMMING 


Pat Leonard 
Sports Writer 
constant substitutions to find an effective lineup. 
In the team's first exhibition game against Lewis, Kurz played 23 minutes, scored five points, grabbed seven rebounds and made two blocks. 
Against Quincy Oct. 11, he played 19 minutes (six other players saw more playing time) and managed 14 points, three rebounds and two steals. 
He's not the most recognizable player on the roster. He is the only member of Notre Dame's sophomore recruiting class. He played 66 total minutes last year as a freshman. 
Granted, playing against two Division-11 teams and Lafayette will not provide the most accu­rate assessment of a Big East player's true worth. But when a sophomore leads his team in scoring in his first career start, a few heads should turn. 
"He understands how to fit in and do the dirty wor·k," Brey said. "He likes to do that, (and] he's grasped that. I don't want him to turn down shots, though." 
That won't be a problem. 
In the middle of a brief 7-1 sec­ond half run that stretched Notre Dame's lead to 20, Kurz took and 

Irish sweep meet with St. Bonnie's 
By JACK THORNTON Sports Writer 
After two close road wins, the Irish returned home and resumed winning big Saturday night with a 203-92 victory over St. Bonaventure in Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
From the first gun to the final relay, the Irish overwhelmed the Bonnies. Notre Dame's swimmers touched the wall first in all 15 swimming events while the diving team went 1-2­3 in both the one-meter and three-meter diving. 
The Irish would have won by an even larger margin, but after the first 1 0 races, much of the Irish team swam as exhibi­tion competitors, making them ineligible for points. 
"It was our last dual meet of the semester so it was nice to bring it home to to win big," co­captain Patrick Heffernan said. 
The Irish entered the meet coming off consecutive come­back road wins. On Nov. 4, the Irish rallied from down 23 points to beat rival Pittsburgh by one point. They followed that up the next week with a two-point victory over Michigan State. 
The blowout win was fueled by a flurry of season-best times in individual events. Senior Doug Bauman and junior Ted Brown took team season-best times in the 100-yard back­stroke and 200-yard butterfly, respectively. 

Junior Tim Kegelman gave his best performances of the. year in both the 200-yard but­terfly and 200-yard medley while junior Justin Barber did so in the 500-yard freestyle. 
Seniors Steve Shomberger and Chris Barnes also partici­pated in the benchmark-set­ting, putting up season-best times in the 100-yard fly and the 100-yard freestyle, respec­tively. 
"Chirs Barnes had a great win in the 100 freestyle," Heffernan said. "He really stepped up in the 100 and won so it was exciting for him and for us." 
By swimming so many exhi­bition competitors, the Irish were also able to give several swimmers racing experience in less familiar events. 
"We were able to move the lineup around a little bit and allow some guys to swim some new events this year or swim some events that weren't really their main focus and they didn't let up on those alternative events," assistant coach Matt Tallman said. 
The Irish are now 4-1 in dual meets this season. With no dual meets for the remainder of the semester, Notre Dame can now focus on its marque event, the Irish Invitational December 1­3. 
"It's kinda cool because it's dif1'erent from a dual meet; you get to swim a lot of different events and it has the 'prelim' set-up where you swim in the morning and then come back at night, so it's got a champi­onship feel, so it's kinda like a direct rehersal for the Big East !Championship I." Heffernan said. 
The lnvitati ona! is swam every year on the weekend after Thanksgiving break. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 
drained a 3-pointer from the top of the key. He scored all seven 
Irish poinl<; in that stretch, but 
those three came from an unex­pected distance. Or did they? 
After the game, Brey said Kurz's range-in terms of being able to make shots consistently -stretches further than most would think. 
"At the end of practice last year he was making threes," Brey said. "He was really com­fortable playing against the key guys and he made that jump shot [from] 18 feet at a high clip." 
Amajor reason Kurz's offen­sive efficiency deserves attention this early on -if not praise -is because he also played well at the end of last season. 

Playing sparingly in 14 games last year, Kurz finally received an opportunity to create a rhythm on the court during a first-round NIT loss to Holy Cross. He was, at times, the only working offensive option on the floor for Notre Dame, and he fmished with 11 points and seven rebounds. 
That was a promising glimpse, and now it seems Brey should be sliding Kurz along with Quinn into the pile. of players who are a sure thing in his starting lineup. 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Kurz said after Sunday's win that coaches have harped on playing defense and rebounding as the major contributions he can make to earn consistent playing time. That may be more obvious when Big East teams stick bigger. bulking forwards on Kurz to make him work even harder. 
But in the early going, while Kurz has been active on defense and on the glass, his solid deci­sion-making and scoring also have been major reasons for increased playing time. 

Contact Pat Leonard at 
pleonard@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Belles split in tournament play 
Saint Mary's bounces back after rough start in weekend tourney 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's basketball 
season got off to a rocky start 
this weekend in a 68-51 loss to 
Hanover, as the Belles shot 17-. 
of-50 from the floor in the first 
game of the Hanover Tip-Off 
Classic. 

The Belles started the game ·off slow, but managed to gain 
some momentum in the first 
half to go ahead 26-24 at half­
time. The second half was a 
different story. 
Facing Hanover's 2-2-1 full­

court press, Saint Mary's was 
unable to move the ball up the 
floor, leading to a 9-0 Panthers 
run. After taking the lead at 
the beginning of the half, 
Hanover never looked back. 
Hanover controlled the 

boards, as the Panthers outre­
bounded the Belles 46-to-31. 
Hanover also had twice as 
many steals -14 to 7 -and 

eight fewer turnovers in gener­
al. 
Despite the statistics, head 

coach Steve Bender was still 
thoroughly impressed with 
Saint Mary's effort in the game. 

"The final score was not at 
all indicative of the game 
itself," Bender said. 

But Bender was able to pin­
point some problems with his 
team's play in the first game nf 
the regular season. 

"We just were not able to 
deal with the press, and that 
hurt us early in the second 
half. We also weren't wa.iting 
for the right shots, we wt•re 
shooting much too quickly." 
Bender said. 

Point guard Bridget Lipke had 13 points, six rebounds and seven assists to lead the Belles in a 65-61 upset of Franklin College in the second game of the Hanover Tip-Off Classic. Franklin College was last year's Heartland Collegiate Athletic Conference champion and a participant in last year's Division III tournament. 
Lipke's offensive presence helped Saint Mary's with the 

win, but more important was her defensive play. She held Franklin guard Lindsey Robertson -a returning senior and last year's HCAC Most Valuable Player -to 5-of-15 shooting. Lipke also forced Robertson to take shots from three-point range, as 11 of her 15 field goal attempts were from beyond the three-point arc. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpat@nd.edu 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat isperfect for winter. Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oopm 




Monday, November 21, 2005 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
Lafayette 
continued from page 20
.. 

season. 
Kurz led all seorers with 18 
points on 8-of-1 0 shooting, but 
more important wern his night 
rebounds -sevon of which ·camo on the offensive end ­
that allowed the Irish to control 
the boards by a 43-to-29 mar­
gin. 
Kurz scored six points on 
three· putbacks in the second 
half alone. 
"The thing that kind of really broke it open was Kurz on the offensive boards," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "His energy kind of gave us a lift to stretch it to 20 or 22 or whatever it was." 
Quinn finished the game 5-of­1 0 from the field for 15 points. He added nine assists and five steals, but turned the ball over four times in his first regular­season game handling the point full time for the Irish. 
"That's probably a few too many turnovers for him," Brey said. ''I'm shocked he turned it over four times, but it's a little different than when he played before because it's in his hands all the time. But still he made plays." 
Quinn made two field goals at the end of the half to give the Irish momentum, one coming on a layup with 52 seconds remaining and the other a run­ner with four seconds left. 
After rushing shots early in the half, Quinn settled down and impressed his coach in his first regular season game of the year. 
"I guess probably the best compliment I would give is I never even worry about that position," Brev said. "I was watching the other four guys. When you have. a good guard like that, hopefully you just watch the other four guys and figure out what you're doing tlwre." . 
The Irish ran their off'nnse quickly during thn first half. not allowing Lafayette to set up on the defensive end. Bniy said he wanted to move the ball up the court in order to get easy looks. 
"We just want to get down a little quicker," Brey said. "I think it really gets y_ou on your toes rather than on your heels. 
"It stretches the defense down the floor and it gives Quinn and Falls opportunities to attack on early offense instead of walking it up and grinding it five on five all the time." 
Quinn said after the game that getting the ball and running was a key for Notre Dame heading into the contest. 
"We wanted to get out and run and be aggressive on the offensive end of the floor," Quinn said. "I think [in this game] and the last exhibition we did a great job of running the floor and it showed in our offensive production." 
Brey experimented with a variety of on-court combinations for the third straight game this season. He used Quinn with McAlarney in the backcourt, and the freshman looked espe­cially good handling Lafayette's full-court pressure. 
"I feel really confident with my ball-handling skills and the guys who are out there with me do a good job coming back to the ball on the trap," McAlarney said. 
Brey said he was disappointed with some of the littlP things that Notre Dame did wrong, namely missing f~asy layups and free throws. Irish guard Colin Falls missed a layup with 14:36 remaining in the first half. 
Falls finished thf~ game with 15 points on 5-of-13 shooting, 5-of-1 0 from three-point range. 
The Irish only made one field goal -a layup by Bussell Carter with 3:20 remaining -. in the final nine minutes. They did score 16 points in that stretch, however. 
"I thought we did a better job in the second half using the line; I think that can be a weapon for us," Brey said. 
Torin Francis finished the game with 8 points on 2-of-5 shooting and a game-high 14 rebounds. 
Notes 
+ Former Indiana Mr. Basketball Luke Zeller fouled out in just 11 minutes in his first game with the Irish. The 6-foot­11 freshman was held scoreless and had just three rebounds. 
But his coach was impressed with the intensity he brought on the defensive end. 
"I feel for Luke a little bit, but a couple of his fouls, I love that he just crushed somebody and nobody got an easy look at a bucket," Brey said. "We gotta give our body up there, we have enough big guys we can play if someone's in foul trouble." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi.3@nd.edu 


NCAAs 
continued from page 20 
Constantly when she touched the ball I was seared she was going to score. Every time she touched it, something was hap­pening." 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 2-0 lead on goals from Amanda Cinalli and Brittany Bock but Yale did not lose focus. The Bulldogs kept the ball in the Irish zone, applying constant pressure instead of sitting back and waiting for scoring oppor­tunities. 
"I told you going in that they were going to be a better team than a lot of people thought they were," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "What a dan­gerous team on the counter­attack. I thought they've been one of the best teams we played all year just making a commitment to defend and attack." 
But Notre Dame's own offen­sive attack was too much. Whenever the Bulldogs would make it a one-goal game, the Irish would respond with a goal to further the gap. 
In the first half Laurel Karnes scored at 31:11 to make it a 2-1 game. But Pinnick's goal at 39:16 gave the Irish comfort. 
Emma Whitfield's goal at 
50:40 made it a 3-2 game, but 13 minutes later at 63:42 Kerri Hanks scored her 27th goal of the season to retake a two-goal lead. Hanks scored again at 
84:45 to put the Bulldogs out of the game for good. 
"I think it was key that we definitely got those goals after they had scored," Cinalli said. "They were a very good team and they never let down, so it was important that we kept our focus and we played tough throughout the whole game." 
Notre Dame advanced to the 

Irish forward Katie Thorlakson pushes the ball upfield during Friday's 5-2 win against Yale in the third round of the NCAAs. 
round of eight with the win and will travel to Portland Friday for a quarterfinals match with the top seed in its bracket. But Irish head coach is not worried that playing on the road will have much effect on how his team plays. 
"I guess seeding wise were the underdog going into 
Portland but I don't think any of our kids will look at the game that way," Waldrum said. "I think they'll just expect it to be a game we're capable of winning like every other game we play." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
NFL 

Johnson, Chiefs beat up on Texans 45-17 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Larry Johnson always felt he was too good to be a backup. On Sunday night he proved it. 
Johnson broke the Chiefs' rushing record with 211 yards and scored two touchdowns to lead Kansas City to a 45-17 win over the hapless llouston Texans on Sunday night. 
The previous record was 200 yards, set by Barry Word in 1990. 
Johnson, in his third year, has gained more than 100 yards in both of his starts since Priest Holmes was placed on injured reserve because of head and neck injuries. 
"When it's never been done before that's outstanding," Chiefs coach Dick Vermeil said of Johnson's record. 
Johnson got going in the first quarter when he slashed up the middle of I Iouston 's porous run defense and shook ofT four would-be tacklers before scor­ing on a 23-yard run to put Kansas City ( 6-4) up 10-0. 
He extended the lead tn 24-7 with a 1-yard run in the sec­ond period after Houston's Phillip Buchanon was called for pass interference. That score was set up by a fumble by Houston receiver Andre Johnson. 
The 211 yards were the most allowed to a single player in Texans history and the seventh time this season an opponent has gained more than 100 yards against Houston's NFL­worst run defense. 
Johnson was supposed to 
come into the interview room 
after the game, but then told 
Chiefs officials he wouldn't 
talk. 
"We were looking for big things from him," Chiefs quar­terback Trent Green said. "It's very important for him to come up big. When Larry's had opportunities to play, he's played well." 
The Texans (1-9), who have looked slightly improved in recent weeks, were back to their old selves against the Chiefs. 
They had only 129 yards at halftime to 292 by Kansas City, which piled up 31 first-half points a week after managing only three points in a loss at Buffalo. 
David Carr threw an inter­ception just before the break that Eric Warfield returned 57 yards for a touchdown. Carr was in position to tackle Warfield before he reached the end zone, but instead stood with his arms outstretched and appeared to yell at his team­mates to help. 
"This is not the way we're going to play," Texans owner Bob MeNair said. "We'll do whatever we have to to improve the situation. We're all disappointed. This is not what we're about." 
When asked if coach Dom Capers could lose his job this week, McNair said making changes during the season just "makes things worse." 
Carr was 19-of-36 for 182 yards and fumbled twice, but was only sacked season-low one time. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 21, 2005 
FOOTBALL 
Quinn disappointed with performance in win 
wants to see. By MIKE GILLOON 
The Notre Dame coach said at Sports Editor his Sunday press conference that Quinn's lack of satisfaction Irish quarterback Brady Quinn with his performance is a sign of wasn't too satisfied after the quarterback's growth Saturday's 34-10 Notre Dame through 10 games playing as the win over Syracuse. starting quarterback for Weis in 
He said he thought he had not his first year as a college head played that poorly since coach. Michigan on Sept. 10 when he "Good or bad, he's starting to completed 19-of-30 passes for be more like me," Weis said. 140 yards and two touchdowns. "There's good and bad in that, The three-year starter was 21-but he has raised the expecta­of-37 for 270 yards and two tion of his own play, which I per­touchdowns against the Orange. sonally believe is a good thing. 
But completing less than 60 So now those numbers, to a lot percent of his passes for just the of other people, would be third time this season. and impressive, but to him that's dis­throwing for 50 yards below his appointing and that makes me season average of 320 yards per feel good that he thinks like game left him disappointed -that."
-
which is just what Charlie Weis Quinn might have had good 
MEN's SoccER 
On to round two . 
However, the Irish hit theirIrish defeat Western stride early with a goal in the 20th minute by Joe Lapira.
Illinois 2-0 to move 
Although a Western Illinois gameplan had been to keep
on to the next round 
the ball away from Lapira, he broke free on a pass play with defender Ryan Miller. 
By KATE GALES Associate Spons Editor "He set up the ball to me around the [penalty kickJ spot and I hit it l~ft footed which doesn't happen very often,"
They're still in it. 
Lapira said.
The Irish kept their season 
The Irish retained the 1-0

alive on Friday with a 2-0 win 
advantage until Kurt Martin 
over Western Illinois in the 
scored when a Westernfirst round of the NCAA 
Illinois defender intercepted
Tournament. Notre Dame will 
an Irish cross pass but mis­
play Indiana Tuesday night 
played it in front of the goal. 
after advancing. 
Lapira said that the Irish"I thought we deserved it 

offense, which has struggled
fairly well," coach Bobby 
at times this season, has
Clark said. "I thought it was 
come a long way. 
an interesting game, I "Now we're starting to
thought they came to play 
click," he said. "The commu­and they had some very good nication between the midfieldplayers." 
and the forwards is almost
Western Illinois managed where it needs to be."
just three shots on goal -all 
Lapira, Justin McGecney

saved by Chris Cahill, who 
and Nate Norman were all
recorded his eighth shutout. 
dangerous in the offensive
"Chris was excellent," Clark 
third for the Irish, and the
said. "lie obviously didn't get 
defense was able to hold
overwhelmed tonight; what 
Western Illinois to just threehe did I thought he did very 
shots.
well." 
On an individual level, ClarkThe defense had a particu­

commented on Dalby's play,
larly solid night against a 
which has been consistent all
Western Illinois attack that 
season.
had a number of weapons. 
"I thought Greg Dalby was

"Although they didn't get 
great, I thought he was a 
many good shots ofl' I certain­
great leader as hn played
ly felt they had players that today," he said of the junior
could threaten us," Clark 
tri-captain. "I thought he tooksaid. "I thought we defended control of the midfield ... win­well as a unit. I don't think it ning balls. he was distributing
was just the defense, I 
the ball well, winning head­thought we defended well as 
ers, he was pretty well doinga whole ·today." 
everything tonight. He set a
Midfielder Greg Dalby said great example for the rest of
the idea of the entire team 
the team."
playing defense was impor­
Although the Irish took timetant to the Irish scheme. 

to find their rhythm in the"I think it starts with our game, Clark said the teamstrikers," he said. "We just 
was motivated from the start.
make it really difficult for 
"If you come out flat in thethem [to get possession]." 

NCAAs we've got a problem,"Dalby, a semifinalist for col­
he said. "They know whatlege soccer's highest honor, 
they're playing for and I thinkthe IIermann Trophy, said he we're very excited about thisthought the team started slow game today."
after a long hiatus. 
Notre Dame faces in-state

"We came out real slow, I 
rival Indiana tomorrow at 7don't know if was just nerv­
p.m. The Irish lost 3-0 to the ousness, I thought the first 10 Hoosiers on Oct. 26.
minutes of the game was pretty back and forth," he Contact Kate Gales at said. kgales@nd.edu 
reason to feel disappointed, though. He has steadily raised expectations of many this season after throwing for 29 touch­downs compared to just five interceptions. His top two receivers, Maurice Stovall and Jeff Samardzija, have shared in his success -teaming for 116 receptions for 1,886 yards and 23 touchdowns. 
So his play against Syracuse, which boasted the nation's No. 6 pass defense entering the matchup, did not sit well with Quinn. 
''You look at his statistics, everyone thought he had a hor­rible game,'' yYeis said. "It's just that we're getting used to him completing every pass." 
Weis said Quinn's leadership and confidence has improved 

along with his passing statistics this season. 
"Leadership has to be some­thing that you really have," Weis said. "It can't be something that's fabricated. He obviously has it." 
Notes: 
+ Chase Anastasio was named by Weis as special teams captain for this week based on his per­formance against the Orange. The Irish wide receiver partially blocked two Syracuse punts from his position on the edge of the Notre Dame punt block for­mation. 
"I was pleased with the punt coverage," Weis said. "Chase I thought played a really, really excellent game." 
+ Weis didn't leave a lot of 
time for sleep after the victory Saturday. The coach was up until near midnight watching several college football games on television, then rose just after 4 
a.m. to begin his Sunday routine of watching film of Syracuse and beginning to plan for next week's game against Stanford. "I really tried to get a peek at four different games ... I'm driv­ing my wife nuts," Weis said. :·I watched a little of the Stanford­California game and the USC­Fresno State game and finally called it a night about quarter to 12, because that alarm clock was ringing about quarter after four, and I thought enough was enough by that time." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Irish m.ake last trip to Goggin 
ND loses one, ties one against Miami 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
The Miami University hockey arena in Oxford. Ohio, which had been a house of horrors for the Irish in recent years, played host to a two-game series this week­end between Notre Dame and the No. 11 Redhawks. The two teams played to a 2-2 tie Friday night before Miami shut out the Irish 3-0 Saturday. 
Miami will be tearing down Goggin Arena after this season in favor of a more modern arena. The Irish were 7-15-2 in the arena all time, including 0-5-1 there in the last three seasons. 
Irish defenseman Noah Babin said a raucous home crowd gave the Hedhawks a unique home ice advantage. 
"[Friday nightJ there was a fan sitting right next to the benches, yelling in our faces," he said. 
Babin also said despite the hecklers and Notre Dame's poor record, he will miss playing at Goggin. 
"It was an awesome atmos­phere," he said. "I hope they can translate that atmosphere to their new place, because Goggin was really fun to play at." 
Junior goaltender Dave Brown started both games for the Irish, his second and third straight starts after alternating with freshman Jordan Pearce for much of the season. 
"I think his performance last Saturday night against Bowling Green was a really positive step in his performance, so I came back with him Friday, and I wanted to see how he would play back-to-hack nights," Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson said. "{ think he played pretty well Saturday." 
Babin said Brown provided a steady hand in net for both games, even though the rest of the team didn't play as well as they would have liked: 
"I Brown) played really, really well both Friday and Saturday night," Babin said. "He made some huge saves. It's a shame we couldn't play well enough in front of him to get him a win." 

The Irish and Redhawks played to a standstill through the first period and most of the second Saturday before Ryan Jones deflected a Nathan Davis shot past Brown at 1 7:24 of the peri­od. 
"We played well in the first period and the beginning of the second period, but then we gave up a goal and we didn't respond," Babin said. 
The Hedhawks scored again at 
12:57 of the third period as Jones knocked in the rebound of anoth­er Davis shot. 
Notre Dame got a chance to respond after Davis was called for roughing at the 13:53 mark of the third period, giving the Irish a two minute power play. Unfortunately for the Irish, a lit­tle over a minute later, Miami defenseman Matt Christie stole ti-M:~ puck in the neutral zone and dashed down the ice, beating Brown stickside to ice the game for the Hedhawks. 
Notre Dame 2, Miami ( OH) 2 
The Irish jumped out to a 2-0 lead Friday night before allowing two third period goals and hav­ing to settln for a tic. 
Sophomore forward Mark Vari Guilder opened the scoring 3:48 into the second period when he took a pass from junior defense­man Wes O'Neill at the left face of circle and blasted it past Miami goalie Charlie EtTinger. 
Barely a minute later, after a Miami penalty, Josh Sciba, Notre Dame's leading goal scorer, took a pass from senior forward Tim Wallac.e and scored his seventh goal of the season. 
The two goal lead would not hold up. 
A pass by Miami center Andy Gn~ene hit Christie in the skate and slipped past brown to cut the lead to one at 6:36 of the third period. 
With less than three minutes h~ft in the game, Redhawks defenseman Mitch Ganzak inter­cepted a Notre Dame pass and passed to Marty Guerin for a breakaway goal to tie the game. 
"The first goal was off a break, and the puck kind of bounced in off a skate," Babin said. "We did­n't respond very well to it and gave up another goal. It was a bad third period." 
Jackson was disappointed that a solid outing by the Irish didn't turn into a win. 
"It was two cheap goals, which is unfortunate because we played pretty well," he said. "We didn't turn the puck over much, but when we did it turned into goas.I ti 
Sciba was also the leading scorer for the Irish last season despite netting just six goals all season. 
"[The coaching staff isl preach­ing to pay the price more this year," Babin said of the offensive improvement. "Last year we were trying to score pretty goals or perimeter goals, but this year we're trying to be grinders in front of the net." 
The Irish will be back in action Friday and Saturday against Ohio State in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
$10 Haircuts* 
Through our apprentice Program 
• 
Mondays through Wednesdays 

• 
Men and Women for medium to short haircuts 

• 
Schedule your cut with one of our Apprentice students: Emina, Nicole or Antonio 


1375 N. Ironwood Drive 
South Bend, IN 46615 
Call 289-5080 
www.salon rougeinc.com 
*$1 0 cut with apprentice student only. This special does not apply to other stylists. 
SALON RoUGE 
(formerly Atria Salon) 
Monday, November 21, 2005 

The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish open the regular season with two big victories 
Duffy's 19 points and perfect free-throw shooting boost Notre Darne over Western Michigan in close game on Sunday 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw opened the regular season on a high note, recording her SOOth career win Friday night. 
Notre Dame defeated Michigan 55-45 at the Joyce Center in the team's home opener. The No. 15 Irish fol­lowed that up with another victory Sunday, downing Western Michigan 71-68 on the road. 
Notre Dame 71, Western 
Michigan 68 
Senior point guard Megan Duffy led the Irish Sunday, scoring 19 points and grabbing seven rebounds. Freshman guard Lindsay Schrader chipped in with 11 points, while senior forward Courtney Lavere added 10 points off the bench. 
While happy to come away with a win, McGraw was dis­appointed with the way her team played against Western Michigan -particularly on the defensive end. 
"I was really disappointed in our defense," McGraw said. "We gave up 68 [points] to this team today. That is obviously about 18 more than we want to give up." 
The Irish had trouble dealing with Western Michigan's perimetnr shooting. The Broncos shot 42.3 percent from three point range in the game. 
Guard Casey Host spear­headed Western Michigan's perimeter assault. scoring 29 points and connecting on 7 -of­1 0 shots from beyond the arc. 
"She was the best player on the floor," McGraw said. "We couldn't guard her. We could­n't stop her." 
Rost's hot shooting kept the Broncos in the game. despite the fact that Notre Dame only trailed in the opening minutes. With 11:50 left, Rost hit a three to bring the Broncos within one point. 
McGraw was confident the Irish would prevail down the stretch, though, thanks to the clutch play of the team's sec­ond-year captain. 
"I wasn't worried because I thought they would foul [Duffy] and she would make free throws," McGraw said. "And that's pretty much what hap­pened. " 
Duffy was 8-of-8 from the line for the game. She connect­ed on four free throws with less than a minute remaining to seal the victory for the Irish. 
Notre Dame 55, Michigan 45 
McGraw's SOOth victory came Friday night thanks in 
large part to the two areas she felt her team needed to improve on heading into the season de~nse and rebounding. The Irish held Michigan to 45 points and just 32 percent shooting, while out­rebounding the Wolverines 54­33. 
"I was really pleased with the rebounding, especially in the second half," McGraw said. "They only had one offensive rebound at halftime, which was awesome. And then to hold them to nine offensive boards for the game, I thought that was just a great job we did." 
Michigan held Duffy to just three points in the game, but two young players led the way for the Irish. Sophomore Charel Allen scored 16 points, and freshman Lindsay Schrader posted 10 points and a game high 14 rebounds. McGraw was thrilled to see her two young guards step up. 
"Charel Allen was the player of the game on the offensive end," McGraw said. "And I thought [Schrader] was the defensive player of the game. She did just a great job -14 rebounds. I mean, that's how we won the game." 
Reserve forward Ta'Shia Walker paced the Wolverines with 16 points and nine rebounds. The Irish struggled to defend Walker in the post all game. 


McGraw was happy with the way the team played. The coach said she hoped Notre Dame's problems in the game could be attributed to the fact that it was the season opener. 
"I think it was mostly the 
first-game jitters," McGraw said. "The first game is always a tough one and Michigan had had two games already. So I think it was just that." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
-· T 

McGraw earns SOOth victory against the Wolverines 
Irish coach has led her team to success on and off the court in her 18 seasons at head of women's basketball program 
It wasn't pretty, but it's over. last year that ended the Irish soon-to-be 50 year-old {her 
Notre Dame coach Mufl"et season abruptly. Friday against birthday is Dec. 5) has led the McGraw Michigan, the Irish found a way Notre Dame women's basketball finally got to get their coach 500 wins program to heights it had never her SOOth before the age of 50, a feat that seen before her tenure. win on only 10 Division I coaches have Everyone knows about the Friday night accomplished. 2001 National Championship, and then After the game was over, but what about the six Sweet 16 501 on McGraw immediately ran to appearances in the last nine Sunday. University President Emeritus years? Or the two Final Four 
But the Father Edward "Monk" Malloy appearances? Better yet, the coveted 500 to hug him. Malloy was the way her players conduct them­came only president of Notre Dame in May selves on and off the court? Or after a dev­of 1987 when McGraw was the 6,000-plus fans that she astating loss hired. . brings to the Joyce Center day­in the NCAA "It's really an honor to be in and day-out, a rarity in colle­Tournament coaching at Notre Dame," giate women's basketball? 
McGraw said after the game. "I McGraw has embraced the just am so thankful. That's why community of South Bend and it 
Pro«~dly Praqnts in Sooth Bernd I went to Father Malloy first has responded. Although stu­Chortvr Bus Trips! because I'm just so blessed to dents don't support the team in be here at such a great place." abundance, those from the com­McGraw was then greeted by munity do, and it is in large partThe athletic director Kevin White, due to McGraw. She has her husband Matt and son embraced her job as theRolling Murphy. I ler team waited at women's basketball coach and center court, well-aware of as the mainstay of the program, 
Stones what the win meant to its and she appreciates every bit of coach. For McGraw it was a fan support the Irish get. moment in her 18 years at "I think we have the best fans 
Wfltnesday January l5, 1006 Notre Dame she won't soon for­in the country, and it's so great (Jnitvd Center • Chicago 
get. that we were able to win at 
SECOHD Bus fiDDED! 

"I am overwhelmed at the home," she said Friday night. "I media how she felt about how Even legendary Notre Dame moment," she said. "It's just think that was added incentive they played. men's coach Digger Phelps such an honor to be at Notre for the team to really get that McGraw is the true captain of "only" had 393 wins for the Dame and be here with so many one tonight for the fans." Notre Dame women's basket­Irish. 
great people that I've had the And on the court, McGraw ball. 413 wins at Notre Dame And so one day. maybe it real­opportunity to work with and runs a. tight ship, one she does­later. ly will be MufTet's court. 
'illY 
Aerosmith 

work for, particularly Father n't let sink. Now all that's left is for Notre L;nny Kravitz Malloy-somebody that's been I Ier players play defense, first Dame to name the court for her Contact11eather Van Saturdoy Dmmbtr 17. 2005 with me for every one of them." and foremost, and everything like Mike Krzyzewski of Duke's 1/oegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu ,. McGraw is grateful to be at else takes a backseat. They play men's team and Pat Summitt of The views expressed in this
Yon Andtl firma • Grand Rapids 

Notre Dame, but the Irish hard, like they did on Friday. the Tennessee Lady Vols. Sure column are those of the author should consider themselves And if they don't play well, she McGraw doesn't quite have 600 and not necessarily those ofTh~ lucky to have McGraw. The is the first to tell them and the wins, but she's well on her way. Observer. 






-----~­
----~----­
---------------, 
page 18 Monday, November 21, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 


Louisville 
continued from page 20 
digs to break the Notre Dame career record, broke it after a 25-dig performance -and her Irish teammates had a fun time. 
"It was really fun," she said. "It's games like this that we play for, this competition. A team like Louisville, who, like coach said, we have a tremendous amount of respect for them ... it just makes it that much more fun." 
Brewster also enjoyed the competition. 
"It's [Louisville! one of the more difficult teams to hit and block against," she said. "But it's also really challenging and fun. You look back over the five games, and I think they're such a good net team, the way they block and the way tlH~Y hit. lt"s so hard to def'Pnd." 
Whil(~ Br(~wster had some incredibiP blocks -S(Wen blocks in the matrh -she said thP overall dd•~nsP was one of the main reasons the Irish won. 
''Our defense was really good," she said. "When I missed a block, they [her teammates] were there to get the dig. Meg saved me a couple of times. We like challenges." 
In addition to Henican 's career day, junior Danielle Herndon had 16 digs. 
Sophomore setter Ashley Tarutis again paced the offense with 62 set assists. 
With the Louisville band and cheerleaders on hand and thP majority of the Kentucky International Convention Center crowd wearing Cardinal red, the Irish fell behind early. After dropping the first game, the Irish fell behind 11-4 in the second game. 
Still, as usual, Notre Dame stayed confident. The Irish wel­comed the roar of the crowd. They were hardly t1ustered. 
"They (Louisvillel cam(' up and played in our facility and this is like coming in and playing in theirs," Brovvn said. "It's just a good atmosphere to play in, and I think that's what we had up at Notre Dame -a lot of people there, big crowd. Sometimes it doesn't matter who the crowd is for. 
"It's just an awesome atmos­phere to play in." 
Sophomore outside hitter and Big East tournament MVP Adrianna Stasiuk said the Irish never got flustered given the magnitude of the match. 
"We weren't nervous at all," Stasiuk said. "The whole game, we were just competing really hard against them. There weren't any nerves. Neither t(~am was really up tight I don't think. It was just a really fun match between two really good teams." 
Senior Lauren Kelbley nailed 13 kills. Fellow senior Carolyn Cooper added 11. 
No doubt, the Irish proved their mettle -and their depth. Freshman Mallorie Croal entered the match after the first ganw and provided a hug(~ spark l'or th1~ Irish. Slw pounded 15 kills. 
Stasiuk finished with 1 S kills and 13 digs. ''I'm a little hard on mvself," she said. "It was defini-tely a 

team effort. Everyone played awesome. Everyone was playing together, and that's what we want." 
Despite Louisville's early leads in the first few games, Kelbley said she and her teammates remained focused and confident. 
"We did; we pulled together," she said. "We looked in each other's eyes, and we knew that we could do it. Both teams were playing great, so it wasn't that we were struggling as far as our skills or anything. We just had to find the edge and shut Louisville down." 
Brown considered the second game a must-win. 
"I think finishing strong !n game two was huge for us," she said. "It's a whole lot different going into the break 1-1 rather than being dmvn 2-0. 
"I .was out for the TV [inter­vit'w betwePn ganws], and they said, 'llow big was that?' and I said. 'It \Vas huge, absolutely hugn."' 
En routP to tlw championship, the Irish beat No. 8 seed Villanova 2S-30, 30-24, 30-2(>, 30-23 Friday afternoon and No. 4 seed Cincinnati 30-20, 30-20, 30-14 Saturday afternoon. 
Friday against the Wildcats, Stasiuk registered a double-dou­ble with 10 kills, 10 digs, three blocks and three aces. Brewster had 15 kills on .400 hitting. She also nabbed eight blocks. Kelbley added 13 kills. Cooper pounded nine kills, and Henican recorded 19 digs. 
Against the Bearcats, Brewster and llenican each had a stellar defensive match -with 11 blocks and 1S digs, respectively. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at 
tdorwart@nd.edu 


IL HUDELSON!The Observer Pasquerllla West quarterback Cara Davies throws a pass against Pangborn in Notre Dame Stadium Sunday. 
the deep pass second. We were
Weasels 
much more able to contain the run this time, which for them continued from page 20 is a very effective offense." 
But while the Purple Weasels zone early and allowed only 48 changed their defensive strate­yards of total offense in the gy against Pangborn's rushing second half. attack, they stuck with what 
Pasquerilla West got a strong had worked through the play­performance on both offense offs on offense. and defense from junior "We ran the same plays on Maureen Spring, who scored offense this time," Bulfin said. both of her team's touchdowns "We just got much better at and also recorded an intercep­executing as the season went tion on defense. Her first along. We were able to throw touchdown catch was a 63-a few deep balls, and a few yarder late in the first half, short outs to gain yardage. and was the first play of a The offensive line gave [quar­drive that began when she terback] Cara [Davies] a lot of pi-cked off a wayward time -she was able to see the Pangborn pass. She later plays develop and the scored again from 12 yards receivers did a great job of out to seal the game for the creating after the catch." Purple Weasels, who ended Pangborn was disappointed with 193 total yards. by the loss, but the team was 
"We were really happy that proud of what it accomplished everything came together," through the season. Pasquerilla West junior safety "We had a good year," 
Bridget Bulfin said. Pangborn coach Tom Holder 
Sunday's game proved that said. "A couple of years ago, anything could happen in the we had no wins. It's a credit to stadium. Pasquerilla West had the girls. They came out and an unlikely run to the champi­practiced hard, played hard onship as the No. 5 seed, fin­every game." ishing the regular season 3-1-His assistants agreed. 
2. The Weasels upset top-seed­"We'll be back next year," ed and undefeated Cavanaugh Phoxes coach Taylor Stuckey in the semifinals to make it to said. the stadium. Pasquerilla West was excited 
Pangborn came into the after capping a thrilling sea­game as the No. 2 seed, boast­son with a win in the champi­ing a 5-1 record with one of its onship. wins coming against "Our defense and offense Pasquerilla West. played great," Purple Weasels 
"We did [make some coach Jim Lynch said. "We changes]," Bulfin said. came in as underdogs, but the "Because we had played them girls never gave up. They gave previously, we knew that they it their all, all season." were an option offense and they like to run the ball a lot, so we pushed up our defense Contact Tim Kaiser at to look for the option first and tkaiser@nd.edu 
I Zahm 
continued from page 20 
quarter to give the Knights a 6-0 advantage. Zenker caught Coly's pass at the 5 and rum­bled across the goal line for what would be Keenan's only score of the game. 
"I was nervous when they scored on that big pass," Gourley said. 
The Bats, however, kept the score within reach going into the second half and righted their ship in the third quarter. 
"I felt a lot more confident in the second half," Gourley said. 
In Zahm's first drive of the half, after tailback Theo Ossei-Anto ran the ball for a Zahm first down, Mike Tieu caught a 35-yard pass tie the score at 6-6. The Bats con­verted the point after and took a 7-6 lead, which would eventually represent the game's final score. 
For Keenan, the loss was toughest because of the nar­row margin. 
Keenan's Alex Staffieri said the final score of 7-6 testified to evenness of the teams and the game. 
"It was a tough loss," Alex Staffieri said. "Any time you lose by such a narrow margin its tough to stomach." 
After Zahm took its 7-6 lead, the Bats defense battled to hold the Knights back, and the strategy proved success­ful. 
Zahm stuffed Keenan early in the fourth quarter to force a momentum-changing turnover on downs, and the Bats offense effectively held onto the ball, letting time tick off the clock throughout the game's final 30 minutes. 
But Keenan did not go out without a fight. 
The Knights drove down­field and threatened to reclaim the lead with three minutes left in a quarter. Then the Zahm defense came through in the clutch. 
Keenan fumbled the ball just when it looked as though the Knights were to threaten the end zone again, and the Bats recovered. 
Keenan forced a three-and­out and breathed new life with just 2 7 seconds left on the clock when the defensive front blocked Zahm's punt attempt at the Bats' 37-yard line. 

The Knights, however, could not capitalize on Zahm's mis­take. 
After two incomplete pass­es, Zahm defensive back Kris Patterson intercepted a pass with 18 seconds remaining in the game, sealing the Zahm victory. 
For Keenan, the missed opportunity was indicative of the way the game went. 
On Zahm's opening drive, Keenan intercepted a pass by Zahm quarterback Sean Wieland. 
Keenan tried quickly to take advantage of the Bats' mis­cue, first with a 30-yard Coly pass, and then a 10-yard run. But the Zahm special teams unit made its first crucial play of the game, blocking the Knights's field goal attempt and keeping the game score­less. 
Staffieri said Keenan's mis­cues cost the better team the championship. 
"The effort and dedication were definitely there, but in the second half we made a few too many mistakes to 
overcome," Staffieri said. "But I think we were definite­ly the better team out there today." 
The 7-0 Bats disagreed with that assessment, exhibiting pride in their championship. 
"Obviously, it feels amaz­ing," Gourley said. "Couldn't end a career on a better note. The undefeated [season] doesn't mean much [to the championship], it just adds a little extra. It was always one game at a time. No one else, except us, thought we would make it this far." 
The freshman Ossei-Anto, who led the Zahm offense throughout the game and sea­son, felt the same way. 
"It is unbelievable; I have never been so happy," he said. "This really is a dream come true." 
Gourley already made a prediction for 2006. 
"Look out for us next year," he said. "We're only losing me. This same team is going to be back again next year." 
Contact Catherine Kane at ckane2@nd.edu 
. ' . 

~ ' • ' -• • I • I -. . . 
JOCKULAR ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 

CROISSANTWORLD ADAM FAIRHOLM 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
[] 
Let's listen to our tapeand improve our tones 
FRUOM 
©2005 Tribune Med1a Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ANGLO 
WHAT THE: BAr<BE:R­

t

NAUMUT 
SHOP QUARTET USE:O TO PE:RFE:CT THE:IR HARMONY.

J I I 

www.jumble.com

tPHISOL t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

J [ J J I 
Answer: 

A"( I I I I]"[ I I I] 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: JOINT AGONY FEUDAL SECEDESaturday's Answer: 
When the salesman told him what the diamond cost, he turned-"STONE" DEAF 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 37 + 64 Sagan or Sandburg
1 Unravel, as a 38 Fundamental cord 65 Glimpse
42 _liquor

5 Hand support 66 It might be 
43 Two halves

9 Fissures 18 oz. on a 44 "All in the cereal box
14 Christmas Family" spinoff 
season 67 Safe sword 45 The whole ball 
15 To be, in Toulon 68 the wiser 
of wax 

..,.-.~ 
16 Messages via MSN.com, e.g. 46 Mt. Rushmore DOWNmaterial
17" small 1 Memo letters 
world!" 49 "Law & Order'' 2 Justice fig.

18 Extended family 
Bader Ginsburg 19 Backside 50 Shipwreck 
3 By the samesignal

20 Old-fashioned token 51 Instrument hit 
23 Nonverbal 4 Long (for) 
with a hammerO.K.'s 

5 Ebb 24 Author Harper 53 Petty 
6 "Finally!"59 Lethal snake 
7 Tehran's land 25 Amer. soldiers 

'.;. 60 Yankee 8 What usurers do
28 Result of a hung nickname jury, maybe starting 2004 9 Gas up again 
31 Fit fiddle 10 Spitting __
61 Workbench 34 Fess up (to) attachment 11 Weapon of 59-Across
36 Driver's lie. and 63 "Doe,_, a 35 Cousin of 47 Tune out 56 Amount not to such female ...'' 12 Wee "The Addams care
48 Walk like a little
13 Underhanded Family" 
'un 57 Soybean paste 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
21 After a fashion, 37 School fund-
informally raising grp. 50 It fits into a nut 58 Armchair athlete's 
22 Really good 39 Like the Vikings 52 First, as a name channel
time 40 Genetic stuff 
53 Lymph bump 59 Pop-top's
25 Alpha, beta, 41 Change, as the 
54 "Yeah, sure" place
Constitution 26 Perfect , 46 Fun park car 55 Open fabric 62 Storm's center 27Wee 
29 Turn red, as a For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
strawberry credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
31 Not silently 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 32 Luxury leather past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords-for young opposite solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rob Bourdon, 26; Gary Barlow, 34; Bill Maher, 49; Stacey Dash, 39 
Happy Birthday: You have plenty on your to-do agenda this year. Your expansive way of looking at things coupled with your very conservative approach should find you ahead of your game plan this year. The balance you have will enable you to get things done --and done to perfection. This is a great year to test your skills and present your talents. Your numbers are 9, 13, 22, 27, 36, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Opportunities must be taken advantage of even if you don't feel much like doing anything. Don't let personal issues stand in your way or hold you back from a good deal. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a stab at doing things differently and you will be a big hit among your peers. You have a good eye, and when you put your savvy sophistication to work, good things happen. *** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You will be off to the races, trying to do everything at once. Slow down, or you might miss someone who is watching you with interest. This is a great day for love. Take time to chat. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): The more you do at home, the further ahead you'll get. You can sign deals, make home improvements or check out real estate. The bonus is that there is a good chance you'll make money. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Prepare to accomplish and have fun. Love is in a high cycle, so don't miss a beat if there is someone you like to spend time with. Yaur contributions will pay off in unusual ways. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take time out to focus on yourself. A little change will raise your confidence and give you a positive outlook. Someone may be condescending --dismiss this person's actions. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll talk circles around anyone who wants to challenge you. You have an expansive view of what's going on, and although it may not be in your favor, you will know how to handle it. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Money matters will escalate, but if you keep close tabs on what's going on, you'll end up making financial gains today. Luck is with you if you play to win. Property deals look good. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be hard to resist, but don't let that go to your head. Keep work and personal matters separate, and once you've done the best job possible, you will enjoy romance and entertainment. *** . ­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may have some unique ideas that will take everyone by stonn. Make sure they are sound and will, in fact, work before you present your plans. Now is not the time to wallow in self-ptty. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have everything going for you today, especially if you get out and have fun with your partner. If single, mingle with people who could end up becoming your significant other. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Feel good about who you are. Don't put too much emphasis on someone who ridicules you. Follow your own path instead of being a chameleon. Learn to say no and you'll feel better.** 
Birthday Baby: You have pizzazz, built-in radar and a dynamic way of getting your point across. You are a go-getter who is determined to go the distance regardless of the odds you face. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
--------------------------------------·-----------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dan1e and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer ­and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________~_ Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip __________ _ 
• 

Monday, November 21, 2005  The Observer+ TODAY  page 19  

'; l 

THE OBSERVER 
p

Monday, November 21, 2005 

page 20 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Thorlakson's three assists enough to beat Yale 
nament. "What a great tandem hope they keep challenging and somehow fit a pass behind
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Thorlakson and Kerri Hanks tonight," Waldrum said. each other." the defender.
Associate Sports Editor 
became the first teammates to "[Thorlakson's] just such a spe­Thorlakson had three assists "She ain't about the best, she ever surpass 70 goals and 70 cial player and does so many in the game, including one on is the best [in college soccer1," It was a record-setting day assists in a season. wonderful things for you. the third goal when she found Yale head coach Rudy Meredith for Katie Thorlakson and the Thorlakson's last assist -her Every night she just does Susan Pinnick in front of the said. "As far being dangerous Irish Friday as they continued 34th of the year -put her past something ... it just blows me net with an open shot. and putting the other teams their national title defense with ex-North Carolina star Mia away the things she can do. Thorlakson was being forced defense under pressure. 
a 5-2 win against Yale in the Ilamm for second all-time in a And then [Hanks] again was towards the endline when she 
third round of the NCAA tour-single season. great, just clinical finishing. I found a seam in the defense see NCAAS/page 15 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL FINALS 
Chantps!· 
Zahm beats Keenan Pasquerilla West wins 
\ 
in a hard-nosed 7-6 championship after 
I~ 
game fo·r the title entering as No.5 seed 
By CATHERINE KANE By TIM KAISER
" I 
Sports Writer Sporrs Writer 

Senior Zahm captain Pat Pasquerilla West proved the Gourley raised the interhall postseason is where wins championship cup high in the count as it topped Pangborn 
air and led the chants of the 13-0 to claim the women's Rabid Bats: "We are Zahm interhall crown in Notre Dame House!" Stadium Sunday. Pangborn 
Zahm had just defeated had beaten the Weasels 20-0 Keenan in a thrilling champi­earlier in the season and was onship game, and the celebra­heavily favored going into the tion was on for the Bats in matchup, but the Weasels pre­Notre Dame Stadium Sunday. vailed to take home their first 
Keenan was first to both football title since 1993. threaten the end zone and After jumping out to an 
score, but the Knights failed to early lead, the Purple Weasels make the point after, a play relied on a stifling defense to that would loom large in the hold off the Phoxes' potent final outcome. rushing attack. Although PW 
Keenan quarterback Rob allowed some big plays Coly hit Dan Zenker for a 30-through the air, the Weasels yard strike in the second stopped Pangborn in the red 
see ZAHM/page 18 see WEASELS/page t 8 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish roll Lafayette, 84-66 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Irish forward Rob Kurz made his presence known in the low post and Chris Quinn See Also settled into 
"Kurz emerges

his new point guard respon­as dominant sibilities 
force on the 

Sunday as 
inside"

Notre Dame beat Lafayette 
page 14 

College 84-66 in the team's first regular season game of the 
see LAFAYETTE/page 15 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Not~e Dame prevails in Big East tourney 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -In a back-and-forth, nail-biter match, Notre Dame (27 -2) defeated No. 2 seed and sev­enth-ranked Louisville (27 -2) 28-30, 31-29, 30-21, 23-30, 15-8 to win the Big East tour­nament championship in Louisville, Ky. Sunday. 
It was a roller coaster ride, just as Irish coach Debbie Brown predicted. 
'"I expected that," she said. "I expected that it would be a very hard-fought match. The previous match lat Notre Dame in the regular season], I think each game was decided by two points or maybe three. There was nothing that was going to be different. 
"I think we executed well. I think we served well." 
Notre Dame beat the Cardinals in four games on Oct. 29. 
To say the least, senior libero Meg Henir.an -who, heading into the tournament needed 61 
see LOUISVILLE/page 20 

! 
Cl) ND WOMEN'S BBAll 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
HOCKEY 

NFL
? 
l ..... 
IRISH

Giants 27
I t--C-) Notre Dame 55 
Notre Dame 2 
Notre Dame 203 

. . 
10
Miami (Oh.) 2 

Eagles 17
t j I z Michigan 45 St. Bonaventure 93 
,<l 

~ INSIDER
Eli Manning led the
Muffet McGraw won 
The Irish crushed the 
Josh Sciba scored once

cc: ::5 
New York Giants with
as the Irish tied the No.

') C) c:s her SOOth career game at Bonnies as all 15 swim-
l 
In their final home game of the season, the Irish 
three touchdown passes
mers finished first in 
11 Red Hawks Friday

i the Joyce Center Friday 
j t a. Cl: had little trouble stopping Syracuse, with the 
against the Philadelphia Eagles Sunday. 
their races. 
night.
night. 

Notre Dame defense preventing the Orange from 
page 17 
page 14 
page 16 
page 12 

scoring a touchdown until the fourth quarter. 
·i l \ Cl) = 
1
• 

O
THE 

Monday, November 21, 2005 BSERVER Notre Dame 34, Syracuse 10 

ran 
e crus 

Emotiorzal senior day takes center stage as Notre Dame routs Syracuse 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 
It took a sophomore's big play to give 
the seniors their last triumphant hurrah 
in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Leo Ferrine returned an interception 16 yards for a touchdown just 13 seconds into the second half to give Notre Dame a 21-3 lead and help the Irish pull away in a 34-10 victory in Notre Dame Stadium for the season's final home game. 
Although the Irish struggled in the red zone and on third-down conversion, especially in the first half, •a strong defense and 420 yards of total offense left head coach Charlie Weis satisfied, despite trailing 3-0 at the end of the first quarter. 
"We came out and scored two touch­downs in the second quarter and got the game back under control," We is said. "After those two scores in the second quarter and the one on the interception, I think the game was back in hand." 
Brady Quinn went 21-of-37 for 270 yards with two touchdowns -both in the second quarter-and no interceptions. 
"He's had better days, but once again no interceptions," Weis said. "One thing you can count on is he doesn't throw picks, but he had a couple dropped balls." 
Quinn became Notre Dame's first 3,000-yard single-season passer and broke Ron Powlus' career passing record. 
After Ferrine's touchdown return, kick­er D.J. Fitzpatrick connected on two field goals to make the game 27-3. However, a roughing-the-kicker penalty after the second field goal gave the Irish a first down, which took away the field goal as Weis chose to continue the drive. Darius Walker capped the drive with a 3-yard touchdown run to make the score 34-3 and seal the game for good. 
Walker rushed for 123 yards and one touchdown on 23 carries, including a career-long run of 37 yards. 

"I thought he was running the ball so well, I wanted to force-feed him carries," Weis said. "He looked very spunky today, and sometimes you go by a feel and the feel was that he had it going." 
The Irish defense held Syracuse to 221 yards of total offense, including just 78 yards of passing. Much of the Orange rushing came on a 51-yard dash by Damien Rhodes, who ran for 112 yards. Quarterback Perry Patterson completed only 9-of-22 passes and had one inter­ception. 

"We had an aggressive game today," senior linebacker Corey Mays said. "Guys did what they're supposed to do." 
After trailing 3-0 at the end of the first 
quarter -the first time the Irish have 
failed to score in the first period all sea­
son -Fitzpatrick's field goal attempt at 
the Syracuse 26-yard line was blocked, 
the first time a Notre Dame field goal has 
been blocked since Navy did it in 2002. 
But Chase Anastasio partially blocked a 
punt on fourth...and-10 and Quinn found 
Stovall on a 25-yard pass with 9:09 left to 
give the Irish the lead, which they would 
hold the rest of the game. 
After the Irish defense held the Orange to three-and-out on the next possession, Quinn hit Samardzija on a 29-yard route to put the Irish on top 14-3 going into halftime. 
"I think offensively it took us about a quarter [to get into the game)," Weis said. "It was far from perfect, but when you're playing against a good defense it's going to be far from perfect." 
After Walker's touchdown, Weis pulled the starters in favor of giving seniors the field for their last home game. 
"These guys bought into the program right from the start and they've really done a great job showing leadership," Weis said. "To be able to turn to the cap­tains and the leadership committee, week in and week out, I can't say enough about the guys. I have a lot of respect for them." 
After the game. the team stayed on the field, singing the fight song and the alma mater with the student section in the northwest corner of the stadium. 
"I think winning the game is almost a relief and they got to sit there and sing the alma mater and the fight song and enjoy the time with the fans," Weis said. 
Fifth-year senior and Irish co-captain Brandon Hoyte led the seniors on a lap around the field after they sang. .. 
"Notre Dame is a place where dreams come true," the linebacker said. "I really mean that. I came here and they've done nothing but put me in a position to do well. There is no room for mediocrity." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgaJes@nd.edu 
PAMELA LOCK and MATIHEW SMEDBERG!The Observer 

Left, receiver Maurice Stovall reaches to make a leaping touchdown catch against Syracuse cornerback Steve Gregory in the second quarter of Notre Dame's 34­10 victory over the Orange Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. Right, linebacker Brandon Hoyte takes down Syracuse quarterback Perry Patterson. 
player of the game 
Irish secondary 

Notre Dame's much-maligned second­ary dominated, holding Syracuse to only 78 passing yards in the contest. Perrine's interception return put the game out ofreach. 
stat of the game 
7,618 
Brady Quinn's career passing yards, passing former Irish quarterback and current director ofplayer per­sonnel Ron Powlus (1994-97) to set a new Notre Dame record. 

play of the game 
Leo Ferrine interception return 
J!lith the Irish leading 14-3, .Perrine picked offa bobbled Perry Patterson pass and returned it 16 yard(jfor a touchdown to put the game on ice for the Irish. 
quote of the game 

"It's not done. Coach is going to do a great job ofbringing us back to earth from this emotional high. " 
Corey Mays Irish linebacker 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 21, 2005 
report card 
B+ 
quarterbacks: Brady Quinn was solid, but unspectacular. He threw for 270 yards and a pair of touchdowns in 
the contest, but later said it was his worst performance since Sept. 10. 
B  running backs: Darius Walker picked up his sixth 1 00-yard rushing game of the season, grinding out 123 yards and scoring his fifth rushing touchdown of .  
the season in the win.  
B  receivers: After failing to find the end zone last week, Jeff Samardzija returned to paydirt against the Orange. Maurice Stovall snagged his ninth  
touchdown in the last four weeks.  
B  offensive line: The line played well for the most part, allowing only one sack and providing Quinn with adequate protection. The running game wasn't  
great, but got the job done.  
B+  defensive line: While the line allowed 143 rushing yards, most of them came on three big plays. Derek Landri and  
Trevor Laws both picked up .5 sacks  
and a tackle-for-loss in the game.  
linebackers: In hi<> fmal game in Notre  
B+  Dame Stadium, Corey Mays dominated, recording a team-high 10 tackles and a pair of sacks. Boyte kicked in five tackles  
and 2.5 tackles-tor-loss in the win.  
defensive backs: The much-maligned  
A­ Iri<>h secondary controlled the Syracuse passing offense, allowing only 78 passing yard<>. Leo Perrine's interception return  
for a touchdown iced the game.  
8­ special teams: The kicking game was subpar as D.J. Fitzpatrick missed one field goal and was blocked on another. Chase Anastasio got his  
hand on a couple of punts.  
A  coaching: Weis once again demonstrated that he gel<> it, choosing to calm down his excited players instead of chewing them out after a slow start. The tactic worked,  
and the Irish never looked back.  
overall: The Irish weren'tas domi­ 

nate as expected, butthey won by 24 and Weis still had the opportuni­
3.26 
ty to get the seniors playingin their final home game at Notre l}dllle. 
adding up the numbers 
Number of seniors on the Irish roster. All of them had the opportunity to play on 
26

Saturday. 
1 
Brady Quinn's rank in Notre Dame history in passes attempted, passes completed, most passing yards, 
most touchdown passes and most games with 250 or more passing yards. 
Number of 100-yard rushing games Darius 
6 

Walker has had this season, including 123 yards against Syracuse. 
Notre Dame's all-time record against the Orange. The team is now 56-20-1 against
3-2 
teams from the Big East conference. 
Passing yards for Syracuse. Quarterback Perry 
7 8 

Patterson threw one interception and one touch­down pass. 
16 
Length of the pass third-string quarterback Marty Mooney completed to fellow senior Mike O'Hara in the fourth quarter -coach Charlie Weis' 
favorite play of the game. 

First downs for the Irish, compared to 11 for the Orange. 
20 

6 
Notre Dame's most recent rank in both the AP and USA Today/Coaches poll. 

It wasn't exactly what the Irish faithful, national media experts and Las Vegas oddsmakers were expecting, but in the end, it was close enough. 
Predicted by many to rip through the tun­nel -and short­ly thereafter, an overmatched Syracuse squad -the Irish resembled a lost puppy more than an unleashed junkyard dog in the early min­utes of a contest they would even­tually go on to win convincingly 34-10. 
Riding high on the emotion of senior day at Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish offense sput­tered out of the gate, punting three plays after receiving the opening kickoff, missing a pair of field goals -one of which was blocked -and falling behind 3-0 at the end of the first quarter to a 35-point underdog in the Orange. 
But Irish coach Charlie Weis gets it. 
As the events of the disappoint­ing first quarter unfolded, fans cringed at the thought of the intense tongue-lashing Weis would undoubtedly deliver to his ineffec­tive, sloppy offensive unit. And Weis did call his group over in the waning minutes of the first quar­ter. 
But his message was a little dif­ferent than anticipated. 
"I just went to the offense towards the end of the first quar­ter, after we kind of floundAred out there, just when you thought I'd gel on them." Weis said after the game. "I just said, 'Helax, relax, just gain your composure. 


You're acting like you're down 50­0, you're down three points, relax." 
And relax they did. 
Just over five minutes into the second quarter, quarterback Brady Quinn hit receiver Maurice Stovall for a 25-yard touchdown strike, and Notre Dame was back on track. Not five minutes later, Quinn delivered once again, find­ing receiver Jeff Samardzija for a 29-yard score and a 14-3 advan­tage. 
Despite rebounding after trailing an inferior Syracuse team-mak­ing the kind of mistakes reminis­cent of the frustrating losses of the last couple years-there was no collective sigh of relief at Notre Dame Stadium. As bad as Notre Dame looked, failing to execute kicking game fundamentals, drop­ping passes and allowing big plays -including a 34-yard sneak by Orange quarterback Perry Patterson and a 51-yard scamper by running back Damien Rhodes -the outcome of the 'game was never in doubt. 
While the Irish won by 24 and final numbers were still respectable -Notre Dame racked up 420 total yards, including another 100-yard performance from running back Darius Walker and 270 more passing yards from Quinn-they didn't play the kind of football that has gotten them to this point, now 8-2, ranked No. 6 in the most recent Associated Press poll and likely on their way to a BCS bowl in early January. 
Entering the game converting 48 percent (73-of-152) of its third downs, Notre Dame failed to move the chains on each of its first scvm1 third downs situations, eventually earning a fresh set of downs on six of 17 opportunities. Even more telling, the offensive failed to put points on the board in each of its first three trips to the red zone, missing one field goal, getting another blocked and fail­ing to convert a fourth-and-goal at the Syracuse three yard line in the third quarter. 
Suffice to say, especially consid­ering the opponent, it clearly was­n't Notre Dame's best game. 
But it didn't have to be. 
"We didn't start as fast as we wanted; in fact, we didn't start fast at all," Stovall said. "But we made enough plays today to beat 
..
Syracuse. 
And Weis had enough experience and tact to recognize it wasn't a lack of effort plaguing the Irish squad, but simply the nerves that accompany the end of such a sig­nificant chapter in the lives of the seniors on the roster. 
"I thought they were a little tight," We is said. "I think they were mentally ready to go, but they were a little excited. Unless you've gone out of this tunnel, really this is the last time for the seniors." 
And he knew that chewing out the players wasn't going to help. Coaches who both understand the circumstances and possess the ability to appropriately address the situation-then pull the most out of their players, all things con­sidered -are rarer than they appear. 
Regardless, the Irish have one in Weis. 
And as long as he's patrolling the sidelines, it doesn't matter what the underlying emotional story is or how the Irish play in the first quarter --they always have a good chance to win. 
The L'iews expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact l\Jatt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd. edu 

Seniors steal the spotlight Saturday 
Mooney to O'Hara fourth­quarte~ pass captures mood from emotional final ga1ne 
By MATT PUGLISI Associare Sporrs Edi ror 
The Notre Dame signal-caller leaned in 
behind center, took the snap, backpedaled, 
read the defense and hit his streaking 
receiver for 15 yards and an Irish first 
down. 
But it wasn't Jeff Samardzija hauling in the pass to convert the third-and-seven and extend the drive, nor was it Maurice Stovall, Matt Shelton, Anthony Fasano or even Darius Walker. And it certainly was­n't quarterback Brady Quinn recognizing the open receiver and delivering another first down. Instead, senior Mike O'Hara grabbed the pass. And the gunslinger? Fellow senior Marty Mooney. 
Ac; the referees spotted the ball, cheers of "Mooney, Mooney" resonated from the Irish student section. In a game where one Notre Dame quarterback broke the school record for both career completions and passing yards, it was the seldom-used third-stringer, not the Heisman hopeful, receiving the most recognition. 
After the contest, Irish coach Charlie Weis had little trouble identifYing his most memorable play from the 34-10 drubbing eye contact for a split second, and I know And so after the seniors had the oppor­of heavy underdog Syracuse Saturday. it was coming my way. I caught it and got tunity to sing both the alma mater and 
"My favorite play off the game was upfield like I've done every day in practice, fight song in front of the student section, Marty Mooney to O'Hara, I'll tell you that and the feeling was incredible." they took off on one last memorable jaunt right now," Weis said. "All those other The short offensive drive that expired around the field. plays you can throw out. That was my with the clock followed a lengthy defensive Weis said there the seniors had free favorite play. Maybe some of you had the series composed entirely of senior Irish reign to express themselves -almost. same favorite play, I'd like to think." defenders. In the end, every senior Notre "They could have done anything," Weis 
Many Irish players had the same opin­Dame player saw action in the contest. said. "Well, there are a couple things that ion. Mooney's completion to O'Hara ulti­were done in the past that would have got­
"That was great," said Shelton, smiling. mately proved a microcosm of a signifi­ten me upset, so I lied. We talked about it." "Those guys put in just as much work as cantly different senior day than last sea­While none of the players were positive anyone else on the team; they deserve it." son, when Notre Dame fell to gritty quar­who started the victory lap, they were 
Quinn was equally happy for the senior terback Tyler Palko (five touchdown pass­happy to participate, cramps and all. signal-caller. es) and Pitlc;burgh in a 41-38 heartbreak­"I enjoyed it, but I kind of cramped up 
"That was awesome," Quinn said. "The er. there at the end," Shelton said. "I didn't chance to convert a big down like that, to The tears stil1 flowed Saturday after­know we were doing a circle, I thought we hit a slant like that and go down one-for­noon, but for a different reason. were just going down and back. Ijust saw one is just awesome." "I was happy," Weis said after the game. guys running so I took off fo1lowing them." 
While O'Hara was surprised Weis called "After we to such a slow start offensively, I Stovall had a slightly more emotional for a passing play after two consecutive was concerned we'd never get to that experience. handoffs to senior running back Jeff point. You lie in bed at night and envision "[The victory lap] felt good, actually got Jenkins, the clock winding down the and how you'd like this whole thing to work the chills, jogging around there with my the Irish eager to put the senior day victo­out. · teammates, guys in my class who have ry to bed, he recognized before the ball "Obviously, the most important thing you been through the same type of football was even snapped that he'd get at least a have to worry about is winning the game, struggles as I have," Stovall said. "A lot of chance to snag his first career reception. but at the same time, I think I had an ethi­younger guys really don't understand yet. 
"When I went to line up, I noticed it was cal responsibility to our seniors to make It felt good to play in the last home game, off coverage and I thought it might be sure I got them involved in the game, and and even better winning." coming to my side," O'Hara said. "I actual­I'm happy to be able to do that. Every one ly looked over at Mooney, and we made ofthem got out there." Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

Quinn assaults.record books once again 
Monday, November 21, 2005 page 3
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
•
scoring summary 

1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total  
Syracuse 3 0 0 7 10  
Notre Dame 0 14 10 10 34  
First quarter  
Syracuse 3, Notre Dame 0  
John Barker 31-yard field goal with 1:55  
remaining.  
Drive: 7 plays, 66 yards, 2:39 elapsed  
Second quarter  
Notre Dame 7, Syracuse 3  
Maurice Stovall 25-yard pass from Brady Quinn  - 
with 9:09·remaining (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick).  
Drive: 3 plays, 36 yards, 1:01 elapsed  
Notre Dame 14, Syracuse 3  
Jeff Samardzija 29-yard pass from Quinn with  
5:21 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick).  
Drive: 2 plays, 40 yards, :34 elapsed.  
Third quarter  
Notre Dame 21, Syracuse 3  
Leo Ferrine 16-yard interception return with  
14:47 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick).  
Notre Dame 24, Syracuse 3  
Fitzpatrick 44-yard field goal with 7:37  
remaining.  
Drive: 4 plays, 1 yard, 1:42 elapsed.  
Fourth quarter  
Notre Dame 27, Syracuse 3  
Fitzpatrick 29-yard field goal with 13:45  
remaining.  
Drive: 14 plays, 75 yards, 5:34 elapsed.  
Notre Dame 34, Syracuse 3  
Darius Walker 3-yard run with 7:42 remaining  
(Fitzpatrick kick).  
Drive: 11 plays, 51 yards, 4:43 elapsed.  
Notre Dame 34, Syracuse 10  
Joe Kowalewski 18-yard pass from quarterback  
· Perry PaHerson with 3:18 remaining (Barker  
kick).  
Drive: 12 plays, 69 yards, 4:24 elapsed.  - 

statistics 

total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession 

-
w ~ 
36-134 rushes-yards 38-143 . 
22-38-0 comp-att-int 9-22-1 
3-41.3 punts-yards 8-30.6 
1-0 fumbles-lost 1-0 
4-50 penalties-yards 8-46 
11

20 first downs 
passing 

Quinn 22-38·0 PaHerson 9-22-1 
rushing 

Walker 26-123 Rhodes 22-112 Jenkins 4·5 PaHerson 11-25 
receiving 

Stovall  3·91  Kowalewski  3-34  
Samardzija  7-80  Williams  2·20  
Shelton  3-62  Shor  1·11  

tackling 

Mays  10  Smith  12  
Hoyte  5  Davis  10  
Wooden  5  Smith  8  
Landri  5  Gregory  8  

Squad struggles to 
convert third downs 
early in the contest 
By KATE GALES 
Associare Spons Ediror 
Brady Quinn continued his record-breaking season on Saturday, becoming Notre Dame's first 3,000-yard sin­gle-season passer. He now has 3,201 yards this season. 
Quinn also broke two Ron Powlus records against Syracuse -most passes com­pleted and career passing yards. The junior now has 7,618 passing yards in his third year as a starter, with Powlus in second place with 7 ,602. 
lie also ·has 568 completions to Powlus' 558. Quinn has downplayed his n~cord-setting performances 
· all season, though, emphasiz­ing that he plans to be baek next year to·solidily his place 
in the record books. He also thought he played poorly on Saturday. 
"It was a really poor per­formance," he said of himself. ''I'd have to stretch back to the Michigan game to feel as bad as I do now with how I played today." 
Weis said that Quinn's most valuable performance against Syr.acuse was game manage­ment. 
"He does such a great job of man aging this team," Weis said. "He gets us out of a lot of trouble that people don't even realize because he's so sharp at what he does." 
Pow]us was quarterback from 1994-97 and is now Director of Player Personnel at Notre Dame. 
NO struggles in red zone, on third-down conversions 
Notre Dame ended the game 2-for-5 in red zone scor­ing after starting 0-for-2 in the first half. The tPam was also 0-for-7 on third down eonversions in the first half, but 2-for-2 on fourth downs. 
The Irish finished 6-for-17 
in third-down conversion and 
2-for-3 on fourth downs. 
"It's always frustrating not to get the productivity that you want, and not to convert on third downs and not to score in the red zone," Irish running back Darius Walker said. "That's always the key, to score in the red zone, that's always a goal." 
Walker thought the team adjusted well as the game went on. 
"I think midway through the game we caught onto their gimmicks and schemes they were running so we kind of turned it around," he said. 
·Special teams are up and down 
Kicker D.J. Fitzpatrick missed a .39-yard go-ahead field goal attempt in the first quarter, which went wide to the-left. He also had a field goal attempt blocked at the Syracuse 28-yard line -the first time a team has blocked an Irish field goal attempt since Navy did in 2002. 

However, Chase Anastasio had two blocked punts, and Weis commended Maurice .Crum's defensive play. 
"Coach places a big empha­sis on special teams," Anastasio said...It's always in the game plan of what we need to do to win." 
Fitzpatrick also tied the sin­gle-season record for PAT's with 48. Carl Gioia kicked the final extra point of the game after Fitzpatrick left with an injury. 
Gameday captains 
Linebacker Brandon Boyte and Quinn served as defensive and offensive captains. respectively, as they have all season. Fitzpatrick was named special teams captain after a solid season. lloyte and Fitzpatrick are both sen­iors. This was their final game in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
---~------­
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 21, 2005 



MATTHEW SMEDBERG/The Observer 


farewell 
Notre Dame continued to dispose of inferior opponents, downing Syracuse 34-10 on senior day at Notre Dame Stadium 
Saturday. The Irish weren't as crisp as they have been in recent weeks, struggling out of the gate and falling behind the visiting Orange :{-0. But a Charlie Weis pep talk loosened up a tight Irish offense and the unit rolled, scoring a pair of sec­ond-quarter touchdowns on Brady Quinn touchdown passes to receivers Jeff Samardzija and Maurice Stovall. Leading 14-3 at halftime, sophomore cornerback Leo Perrine-playing for an injured Mike Richardson-picked off a bobbled Perry Patterson pass 13 seconds into the second half and returned it 16 yards to seal the senior day victory for Notre Dame. Quinn continued his record-breaking performance this season on Saturday, setting Notre Dame highs for both career passing yards (7,618) and completions (568), in addition to becoming the first Irish quarterback to throw for 3,000 yards in a season. The blowout victory gave Weis a chance to play every senior, including quarterback Marty Mooney and receiver Mike O'Hara, who hooked up for a 16-yard pass late in the fourth quarter. After the game, the sen­iors sung both the alma mater and the fight song, before taking off on a memorable victory lap around the field. 
PAMELA LOCK/The Observer 



Top left, linebacker Brandon Hoyte makes a tackle. Top right, Irish players sing the alma mater. Middle top, quarterback Brady Quinn looks to pass as lineman Dan Santucci protects. Middle bottom, seniors Joe Boland (53) and Dan Chervanick (93) raise their helmets. Bottom right, seniors Mark LeVoir (73) and Dan Stevenson 
(74) salute the crowd. Bottom left, receiver Jeff Samardzija scores a touchdown. 




