
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 119 THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2005 
3,478 admitted &om first-rate pool 
956 minority students invited to class of2009 
By JULIE BENDER 
News Wri1cr 
Notrn Damn will bn slightly srnartnr romn nnrollmnnt Limn this August. 
Thn prospndivn studonts for tlw <:lass of 2001)-with tho strongost applicant pool in tm·rns of aeadmn ies to dato ­havn rnenivnd their ar.enptanee ll'l.tt~rs and am eurn~ntly decid­ing wlwthnr or not Notre Damn is tlw plan~ they want to spmul the rwxt !'our years of' their lives. 
"The applicant pool was dear­ly strongnr than nvnr in torms of collogn prop courses, grades, rank-in-class and Lost scorns," said Dan Saracino, direetor of admissions at Notre Damn. Statistics provo Saracino's 
see 2009/page 4 
SENATE 
Baron, Shappell lead fledgling representatives 
served as a "day of' iritrodue­tion." as old committee chairs described past achievements and new committee chairs pro­posed future goals, providing information to new senators who then deeided what com­mittees they would like to join. 
Outgoing senator Vijay Hamanan said tho Aeadt1mic Affairs committee focused on eourse registration, teaehor course ovaluations, DAHTing and the College Headership Program. lneoming committen chair Chris Harris said whiln ho has 10 to 12 projeets in mind, the College Hnadership Program is the "number one priority." 
Outgoing chair of' the Diversity Al'f'airs eommitteo Nick Coleman noted last ynar's 
. see SENATE/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

U.S. sees effect of late pope 
By MARY KATE MALONE NewsWri1er 
PopP .John Paul II W<L'i noth­ing less than an international globetrotter. When he visilPd tho Unil.nd States filr t.hn first time in 1979, Amnri1~ans gr·antml him unprecodnntnd celebrity status l'or a rPiigious figurP. f)pspite his enormous popularity, the U.S. Church and the popP have had a mm­plicatml relationship f'rom the b11ginning. 
Under .John Paul II, tho Church saw an increase in tlw numbor of' Catholics on a global lev1~l. a reinvigoration of Catholic conservatism and a nnw appreciation for thn youth of' the world. But l.hn lato popn also loaves behind him a struggling Church in the United States, a church that dashed with the Vatkan over John Paul ll's finn con­trol of' ehurch leadership and n'lf'usal to compromise with American Catholics seeking a morn dmnoeratic approach. 
Some ehurch exports, such as law prof'nssor Cathleen Kavnny. attribute the t11nsion betwenn tlw Unit1~d States and tlw Vatican to a natural rosult of the eoexistnnen of' two h ugnly pownrf'ul global institutions. 
"Thorn's always going to be tension hntwnen l.lw American Chureh and the univt1rsal Chun~h because ltlw United Stat1~sl is tlw only mnpirP lnft in tho world," shn said. "The Vatican is a bout earing for Uw whole world and that's going to ereate ttm­sion in tnrms of the pnrspnc­tive of our nation." 
Thn U.S. Church. though unitml in its mourning of' the popn, is struggling with intnr­nal problems. 
In 2002, t.hn snxual abusn 
see CHURCH/page 6 


AL.)t\.USSl\ )NS STArt~ l'tCS 
Number ofTotal Applicants: Class of 2008 Class of 2009 11,483 IIJI(> 
Total Number Accepted: Class of2008 ~lass of 200<> J,359 3,478 
Number ofMinority Applicants: Class of2008 Class of 2009 1,879 2Jl28 
Number of Minority Applicant~ Accepted: Class of 2008 Class of2009 885 9~6 

By MADDIE HANNA Associa1e News Ediwr 

Student government veterans took nedgling senators under their wings at Wednesday night's Senate meeting, intro­ducing them to parliamentary procedure and the various com­mittees. 
"The entire meeting was a learning experience f'or them," student body viee president Lizzi Shappell said. 
Student body president Dave Baron agreed, saying the meet­ing laid the groundwork for the year. 
"Things could get going lquickllrl this year than last year," Baron said. Baron noted the nnw senators' enorgotie attitude and willingness to ask questions as reasons why. 
Shappell said the meeting 

Women gather to envision future for Catholic Church 
Discussion e11sues at Saint Mary's College 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Sainr Mary's Ediwr 
While mnmbnrs of thn College of Cardinals gatlwred in Vatican City this week to hury Pope John Paul II and to appoint a rww lnadtw, a group of' roughly equal size nwt in 

J.n Mans llall al Saint Mary's to discuss hopn for the future of tlw Catholic Church. 
Tlwre were no t1dnvision 

cameras present, and at the end of the night there would be no smoke, gray or white, waf'ting from tho bell tower. But students and f'aeulty talked with energy and some­times emotion about issues ranging from thn ordination of womnn to homosexuality to Terri Sehiavo. , 
Thn discussion, entitled "Tiw Chureh Women Want," began with opening eomments from two chureh nxpnrts and five studnnts and then contin­tred in small groups. It was part of' an ongoing dialogue at the collego in relation to its of'f'ieial af'f'iliation with the Catholic Common Ground lnitiativn, a movement found­ed by former Chicago Cardinal Joseph Bernardin. 
Mary llnnold, professor at Hoanokn College and an export on Catholic feminism, told the audience she was a "eontradietion" within the Church. 
"I am unapologetically pro­grnssive and thoroughly Catholic," llenold said. "I ean't imagine over leaving tho ehun~h. although I have come to understand that ol.lwrs are perfectly justifi11d in doing so." 

When she asked herself what she would like to soc in the Catholie Church, llenold said, there were several obvi­ous answers including the ordination of women and tho recognition of single, non-celi­bate women whom, she said. the chureh currently ignorns. 
Other responses, llenold said, took her by surprise and will take further thought to develop fully. 
"First," llnnold said, "thn Chureh I want is a church that lives." 
llenold said tho decline in 
vocations to tlw pri11sthood, spocif'ically the ordnr of Jesuits that dt1eply infhwncn hnr, is frightening. 
"I'm willing to take on morn responsibi Iity as a layperson, so that the chureh I love remains vibrant and visionary in tho ehanging world." llenold said. 
I I ~~ n o I d s a i d tlw C h u r c h should oncP again t~rnhracP its11lf and its history. llenold believes t.lw Church has lost somn or il.s identity in l.hn last half of tho C!Hltury, 
see WOMEN/page 4 
Thursday, April 7, 2005

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

l'n1 not offended 
One hazy night in London, I mis­takenly boarded bus number 23 without my lovely roommates. When they realized back in Flat 16 that I was missing, they "organ­ized" a makeshift "search party" Christie Boisen that consisted of them wandering 
Assistant
around in a 
Scene Editor 
Strongbow­induced stupor, asking randoms if anyone had seen "the Asian." 
Judging by the offended reaction of passers-by, we apparently find ethnic jokes a bit too funny. l must have the sensitivity of a rhinoceros when it comes to the fine nuances of the diversity debate, since it's okay for people to refer to me as "the Asian," or to make me keep the cups score because "my kind" is "good with numbers," or to tell me that we're only good at Little League and hot dog eating contests. 
We're all careful about being politically correct, so saying you hate Asians in Scholastic is not received as humorous, and Latin Expressions emcees are perceived as alienating non-Latinos. Is it really the people making good­natured jokes we should worry about, when we know for a fact that they are not at all racist? Please, let's rally our efforts instead against the boorishly igno­rant, like people who try to find out what kind of Asian you are by ask­ing, "Where are you from?" If you really want to know what kind of Asian someone is, the effectiveness of this question is clearly depend­ent on the assumption that we all recently stepped off a plane from Asia. I'm from Ohio. Back off. 
I don't know what the world is coming to when we can't all gather round and have a nice hearty laugh at an ethnic joke. Sure, Latin Expressions featured Latino pride, sometimes at the expense of white people. Maybe it went too far, I'm obviously one of the least qualified people to judge that, but isn't it better than the alternative of pre­tending we're all the same? It's funny because it's true -when someone has a "you don't under­stand us" attitude they're usually right. I don't know what it's like to feel uncomfortable around white people, like one of my Mexican friends who ex-pressed this senti­ment to me, so I really don't under­stand her situation. Let people have their harmless fun. 
So the next time someone makes an inappropriate joke about your pocket abacus, it's probably not because they're prejudiced or because they're trying to build up more barriers between ethnic groups. There's already underlying differences in place, so commenting on them doesn't mean you created them, it means you can acknowl­edge and maybe celebrate them. Discrimination is not funny; ridicu­lous stereotypes about minorities are. 
But seriously, guys ... stop mak­ing me keep score. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WERE PRESIDENT OF THE SHIRT, WHAT WOULD IT LOOK LIKE? 







Aaron Zielinski Tom Martin Lukas Mendoza Darius Stewart Patrick Welch Andrew Vi 
junior freshman sophomore sth year sophomore sophomore Stanford Siegfried St. Ed's off-campus St. Ed's St. Ed's 
"Wins and ''A picture ofa "Like the shirt "On the front a "Not crappy." "I'd have 
losses, but no bright gold from last year, picture of 
71
y. , dome with a picture ofthe Waldo and on 
scaffolding. " team." the back 'Where's Ty?'" 


A banner outside of Breen-Phillipps Hall combines artistry and poetry to celebrate the 40th birthday of rector Becca Davidson. 
OFFBEAT 
Professor accused of stealing manure 
ROCKPORT, Mass. -A Harvard economics profes­sor has been accused of neglecting the standard mar­ket practice of paying for goods and services by trying to steal a truckload of manure from a horse farmer. 
Stable manager Phillip Casey says Martin Weitzman, Harvard University's Ernest 
E. Monrad Professor of Economics, has been steal­ing manure from Charlie Lane's Rockport farm for years. 
Police said said Casey found Weitzman on the property last Friday, so he blocked in Weitzman's pick­up truck and called police. Weitzman got angry, Casey said, then offered to pay for the manure he'd already taken. But Casey said he wouldn't budge because he wanted the thefts to stop. 
Police say ex-teacher acted on old grudge 
SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y -Police say a former ele­mentary school teacher held a grudge almost 30 years after receiving poor work reviews, littering the drive­ways of former co-workers and administrators with roofing nails and splattering paint on their garage doors. 
Thomas R. Haberbush, 72, of Niskayuna pleaded guilty Tuesday to one count each of stalking, criminal mischief and criminal tampering, all misdemeanors. Police said that three former school board members, a retired principal and a retired assis­tant principal at Caroline Street Elementary School were among the nine victims Haberbush targeted over the past two years. Their car tires were damaged by roof­ing nails that Haberbush threw in the driveways, police said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 


:::c 
=c 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
~ 
<C 
(.) 

...I 0 HIGH 57 HIGH 50 HIGH 55 HIGH 65 LOW 43 LOW 40 LOW 33 LOW 38 
pictures ofpast greats such as Montana, Tim 
,
Brown, etc. 
IN BRIEF 
Author and historian Mae Ngai of the University of Chicago will give a seminar today entitled "Chinese Americans and World's Fairs." It will begin at 3:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditorium and is sponsored by the department of American studies. 
Deborah Yashar, professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University, will lecture on "Contesting Citizenship in Latin America: The Rise of Indigenous Movements and the Postliberal Challenge" today. It will begin at 4:15 
p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center. 
As part of the 2004-2005 Nanovic Institue series of con­temporary film "European Cinemas, European Histories," the film "Soldiers of Salamina" will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Canadian fiddler Natalie McMaster, who has per­formed with musicians such as Luciano Pavarotti, Faith Hill and Carlos Santana, will perform Friday at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Student Union Board will be showing the movie "Closer" Friday and Saturday nights at 8 p.m. and 
10:30 p.m. in DeBartolo 101. Tickets are three dollars. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 
~ 


HIGH 70 HIGH 63 LOW 40 LOW 46 
Atlanta 68 I 54 Boston 63 I 47 Chicago 52 I 36 Denver 70 I 40 Houston 76 I 52 Los Angeles 71 I 54 Minneapolis 62 I 40 New York 64 I 50 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 76 I 52 Seattle 54 I 42 St. Louis 61 I 43 Tampa 80 I 64 Washington 73 I 50 
Thursday, April 7, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC-TV to provide ca111pus infor111ation 
By KELLY MAUS 
News Writer 

With the incrnllsing num­bnr of obligations and rnsponsibilitins faeing col­lege students, it is often dif· f'icult to keep track of the many events happening in the world, let alone those on campus. 
Undnrstanding a nend for a new way of' campus commu­nication, mnrnbers of' Saint Mary's Student Government 

,~~--...... 



Mini 
Storage Depot 
Your Sterling Storage Solution 
Mini Storage Depot is also your one stop shop for rental trucks, 
packing supplies &locks. 
Choose from 5 convenient locations in the South Bend/ Mishawaka/Elkhart area. 
1) Brick Rd.  574.277.3122  
2) Grape Rd.  574.272.4434  
3) McKinley  574.259.0335  
4) Cassopolis  574.262.4084  

(turn right off the 80/90 Toll Road) 
5) Franklin Rd. 574.295.3506 
and the Information Technology Resource Center have combined forces to launch SMC-TV -a closed­circuit campus cable channel for educational and commu­nicative use on campus. 
Over 18 months in the 
making, SMC-TV will pro­
vide students, faculty and 
staff with a means for cir­culating information like campus news, upcoming events and national/ world 
headlines. On Monday n i g h t ' 
Director of Information Technology Keith Fowlkes gave a pres­entation on what can be expected from this new proj­ect. 
"The cam­pus needs a new and fresh information 
"The campus needs a new and fresh information source for students and faculty." 
Keith Fowlkes director of information technologies 
source for students and faculty," Fowlkes said. 
In addition to campus news, Fowlkes said SMC­TV will also have to ability to broadcast other pro­grams from talk shows to special interest programs. 
"As long as the proposed programming follows our slogan of 'creative, intelli­gent, and engaging', as well as the professional standards set by the advis­ing committee, the sky's 
the limit," Fowlkes said. 
"We believe SMC-TV will serve as a great innovative way for students to express themselves, as well as learn the .skills needed to create and produce on-air perform­ances." 
One key point that was emphasized at Monday's presentation was the great need for student involve­ment. It is planned that within two years, SMC-TV will be completely student-
run and operat­ed, ft·om pitch­ing ideas all thfl ] to the time the program is aired. 
Currently, SMC-TV is being funded through thfl llusking Foundation Grant rneeived 
by the e 0 11 e g e several years ago. This sum­mer, advisors 
hope to purchase new eam­eras and other equipnwnt to begin training students in the fall. 
Once student managernnnt positions and independent production teams are filled, tho faculty memlwrs and advisors involved hope to begin on-air programming boginni ng January or February 2006. 
Contact Kelly Maus at kmausO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Student designs -win prizes 
Special to the Observer 
Two senior industrial design students at the University of Notre Dame placnd sncond and third at the 12th annual International llousewares Assoeiation (IliA) Student Design Competition lwld March 20 to 22 at the McCormiek Place Exposition Center in Chicago. 
The competition was part of the IliA International llomn and llousewares Show, the world's largest home goods and house wares marke tp l<t1~n showcasing thousands of nnw products and designs. 
S11lim Nurudenn from Friendswood, Tnxas, took snc­ond placn and rncnivnd a $1 ,600 eash prizn for his prod­uct dnsign "Clnan Swnnp," an innovativn broom that d11als with tho inel"fidendns or using a dust pan by intngrating a vae· uum function into tlw body or a broom. 
Miduwl l~lwl'll from Amlwrst, Ohio. finished in third plac11 and won $1,000 for his product dnsign "Magnilkare," a devicn that hnlps pnopln with arthritic hands open push-and-turn pre­scription bottl1~s and also indudes a magnifying glass to help read lab11ls. 
Don't be left without storage this year! 
Limited availability. First come first serve. 
Get one now with your credit card (not a reservation). Select from a variety of storage sizes starting from $45 per month Free lock provided with paid admin fee. 
SPECIAL PROMOTION Bring your U-haul rental truck receipt in and receive 

$200FF 
your first month's rent on at least a four-month stay. The coupon only good at Brick, Cassopolis and Franklin locations. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 7, 2005 
2009 
continued from page 1 
assessment accurate. 

There were 11,316 students who applied to Notre Dame this year -the third-highest num­ber of applicants ever. Of that number, less than one-third of applicants were accepted to Notre Dame, with 3,478 stu­dents receiving acceptance let­ters. Last year, just ten fewer students were admitted. 
Of the students who received acceptance letters, the Admissions Office predicts a lit­tle more than half will enroll at the University. Saracino quoted expected enrollment at 1,975 
WoiDen 
continued from page 1 
"The reality for many of us who grew up in Vatican II's wake is that we never experi­enced that which made Catholicism truly distinctive, and so now there's a real hunger in my generation and younger for a vibrant Catholic culture," Henold said. 
According to Henold, her position could be misinter­preted as an argument to return to the days before the second Vatican Council. Instead, what she would like to see is a return to a teach­ing of Church history. 
Senior Carolyn Madison said she has had many strong role models in her life and in her faith, particularly her mother and grandmother. These roles, however, are no longer sufficient in a modern Church, Madison said. 
"There are many positions in which women can make a difference, can inspire others, can lead someone to a better union with Christ," Madison said. "However, [these are] positions in which women are restricted in their actions and these women desire more." 
Senior Sarah Brown recounted her most memo­rable childhood experiences as a Catholic, bringing the gifts up to the altar and being asked to serve as a cross bearer during mass. 
"These feelings of having been included and taken seri­ously in the Church are both what made me Catholic and what keeps me Catholic," Brown said. 
Brown said that while she feels fortunate to have been given certain roles within the Church as a woman, the Church still fails to include them on an equal level. 
"When I watch CNN inter­view members of the leader­ship of the Church on the sig­nificance of the death of the Pope and I see no women approached, I do not feel included," Brown said. "I do not feel as if my voice is being taken seriously." 
Brown told the audience the Church must make a place for women at every level. 
"The Church that I want, as a woman, is one that works to make women's voices and women's experiences includ­ed and taken seriously in every arena of the Church ­from carrying the gifts of the Eucharist during mass, to leading the Church in its deci­sion making." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

students. The class of 2009 didn't fail to ing this year," Saracino said. 
With such a large number of impress admissions officers in "There were 2,028 minority quality students applying to this area either, despite its out­applicants versus last year's Notre Dame this year, the standing academic records. high of 1,879." University was able to select an "The students' extracurricular Of those minority students incoming class of high caliber in involvement was who applied to the classroom. According to equally impressive Notre Dame, about 
"The students, 
Saracino, the average SAT score this year," half were accepted for the 11,316 applicants this Saracino said. extracurricular into the incoming year was 1312, and the average Diversity is class.
involvement was
ACT score was 29. Both figures another key area "We admitted a
equally impressive 
were the highest test score aver­the class of 2009 record number of ages Notre Dame has ever seen excels in. This this year.,, ethn_ic minority in applications for an incoming year saw a jump students for the class. in the number of class of 2009 ­
Dan Saracino
Notre Dame, however, looks minority appli­956 versus 885 for more than just academic cants to the director of admissions from last year," excellence when selecting University, a fact Saracino said. prospective students, Saracino the Admissions Office looks on An increased number of appli­said. Students must be well­with pride. cants generally means a larger rounded with a variety of expe­"We had a record number of number of students will choose riences outside the classroom. ethnic minority students apply-to enroll at the University, so 
predictions for the incoming class are high. 
"Based upon previous years' yields on admitted students, we anticipate enrolling the largest number ever of ethnic minority students," Saracino said. "Twenty-three percent of the incoming class would be consid­ered ethnic minority." 
This year's applicants also exceeded expectations on the diversity of their geographical distribution. According to the Admission Office's statistics, all 50 states are represented in the admitted student pool, and 129 of the admitted students are international students. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 








ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 7, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TI--IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Suspect acquitted on terrorism charges 
BI~HLIN -A Tunisian man accused ol' planning attacks in Germany l'or al-Qaida was acquitted ol' terrorism chargns Wedrwsday but found guilty of illegal W!Htpons possession and tax evasion. lin was .senten1~ed to thrnn years, nine months in prison. 
Tlw vnrdirt marked another setback for the c;erman governnwnt. which has had dif­lkulty making charges stick in several post­SPpL II, 200 I, terror eases. 
l'ednral pros111~utors alli1gP.d that lhsan c;arnaoui. 34. planned attacks on American or· Jewish targ11ts to coindde with tho U.S.­Ind invasion of Iraq in 2003. They had sought a six-year prison sentP.nee on charges that indudnd attempting to form a tl'rrorist group. 
Parliament elects Kurdish president 
BACIIIMI>, Iraq-Tho Iraqi parlianwnt rhosn Kurdish lnad11r Jalal Talabani as the country's nPw int11rim president Wednesday, rParhing out to a long-repressed minority and bringing tlw country closer to its lirst dPmorratieally PlnrtPd government in 50 yPars. 
OustPd lllPIIlbnrs ol' tho former rP.gime ­inrluding toppled lnad11r Saddam llussein­wer11 to watdr tho annotrrH~emnnt on televi­sions in tlwir prison cells, Iraqi officials said. It wasn't !'.lear if they would watch it livn or on a tape. 
Adtd Abdui-Mahdi. a Shiite, and interim l'r11sidont Chazi ai-Yawer, a Sunni Arab, WNn dwsen as Talabani's two vieo prnsi­dnnts. 
Aftpr wenks or at times tense negotiations, llw threo randidatns received 227 votes. Thirty ballots wero left blank. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
White supremacist given 40 years 
CIIICAGO -Avowed white supremacist Matthnw llaln was sentenced to 40 years in prison Wmhwsday for trying to havfl a federal judg11 killnd -the sanwjudge whose husband and motlwr wnrn murdnrnd five weeks ago by a dnrangnd man with no eonnection to llale. 
I lain, thn :n-year-old leadflr of a group that pr11aehns racial holy war, was sentenced aftnr a rambling, two-hour speech in whkh he dairnml lw was the victim and nvfln reeited part of "Tiw Star Spangled Banner." lie showN! no nmotion and sat staring at the dnf11nsn tablt~ as the sentence was handed down. 
l'rosncutors argued for the maximum sen­ltmell, saying llale's !Time amounted to an act or tnrrorism, and the judge a!-,>TOed. 
Ex-maid testifies against Jackson 
SANTA MAHIA, Calif. -A former maid for Mic.hael Jackson said Tuesday she once nnt11rnd thn pop star's bedroom and, through bathroom stnam, saw him showering with a boy who oftnn slept in the pop star's bod. 
The woman, who was .Jackson's personal maid for about fivn years and whose son set­tim! a molestation daim with the singer, told or sening Jackson in thn shower with a boy about night ynars old who frequently stayed at Nnvorland. 
"Aro you awarn of him staying anywhp,re ollwr than in Michael .Jackson's bedroom?" askml prosecutor Hon Zonon. 
LOCAL NEWS 
State plans to close juvenile prison 
BI.OOMINCTON, Ind. -Tlw state plans to eloso its Bloomington Juvenilfl Corrnetional Fadlity by April 22 because or abundanen or nmpty juvenile bods 
stall~wido. 
Tho Indiana l>epartmont of Correction will move tho 34 prisoners at tho Bloomington site to othor facilities, spokeswoman Java Ahmed said Tuesday. 
DOC facilities statewide have space for morn than 1,700 juvenile offenders but currontly hold about 1,030. 
Police cut off pope's visitors 
Officers work to clear the Vatican for the preparation ofJohn Paul II's funeral 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -J\l'tor eloctronic highway signs and cnll phone text mes­sages failed to staunch tho f'low ol' pilgrims, police stepped in Wednnsday to turn back mourners hop­ing to join the 24-hour linn to vinw tho body of Pope John Paul II. on a day that brought almost I million pnopln to the Vatican. 
Using a spoeial ontrance f'or VII's, Prnsidnnt Bush viewed tho body with his wifo, Laura, along with his father, former President Clinton and Secrotary of' State Condoloezza Hice, shortly al'tnr tho U.S. df~lo­gation roached Horne. Thny knfllt in a pow in front or tho rornains, bow-. ing thnir heads in prayer, joining a million pilgrims who had filed solemnly through St. Poter's Basilica. 

Seeking to elnar tho basilica by Thursday evnning so tho Vatican could prepare for John Paul's funeral the follow­ing day, police announced they were dosing tim line at 10 p.m. Text messages wore sent over Italian cel­lular phone lines. Those at the back would wait 24 hours before entering the basilica. outside St. Peter's ... We now that thfl cardinals will who will choose his suc­
"We're just hoping the an1 all working to ensure be allownd to roam freely cessor a sot of' detailnd order can be reversed," maximum tranquility." around the Vatican. guidnlines to ensure the said Federica Bruni, a 20-The crowd control prob­"They've assured us centuries-old process of' yp,ar-old student who lems developed hours there are ways to block all electing a pope is safe in carne from northem Italy after the College of communications and con­tho modern age. and was one of tho lirst to Cardinals set April 18 as versations," Chicago In it, he called for a be told to go away the start of its conclave in Cardinal Francis George dean swonp by "trustwor­Wednesday night. the Sistine Chapel to said. "They're taking pre­thy" tPchnieians of' the 
It took more than an choose a successor to cautions to prnvnnt out­Sistine Chapel and adjoin­hour after the deadline to John Paul, a p"apal elec­side interference.... No ing rooms to prtwPnt bugs set up the barricades and tion with new rules and cell phones, no laptops, and other audiovisual establish the cutoff point. new technological chal­nothing." PquipmPnt from boing 
"You toll these people!" lenges. The severest of punish­installPd. lie bannod loin­said one Civil Defense of'li­The Vatiean is a keeper ments-induding exeom­phones. cer in frustration as the of secrets without parallel, munication and "gravn Vatican spokesman time passed for the line to but there were questions penalties" meted out by Joaquin Navarro-Valls end. "I low can we close'?" Wednesday about whether the pope himself-await said the cardinals would 
"It's possible there are 1 the deliberations -and anyone who breaks tho eelebratn a morning Mass million people out thnre," the name of the new pope sacred oaths of secrecy. on April 18, then be said Luea Spoletini of the -could be kept within John Paul set out the sequestered in tho Sistine Civil Defense Department. the freseoed walls in an penalties in a 1996 docu­Chapel in the early al'tPr­"They are all concentrated era of cell phones and ment, giving cardinals noon for thnir lirst ballot. 

MONACO 

Prince Rainier III dies at 81 years 
Mediterranean charm and royal trap­Hainit~r had btltm trPatod thnro for 
Associated Press 

pings of his tiny principality. the past month for heart, kidnny and 
Before age slowed him, Hainier brnathing problmns. Allwrt took over 
MONACO -Prince Hainier Ill, who poured his energies into public the royal powPrs last WPPk bPcause reshaped Monaco and worked to works, earning the name "the builder of Hainier's ill health. ovflrcome its reputation as "a sunny prince." He put Monaco -which is Hainior's funeral will bn lwld April placfl for shady peopln," died smaller than New York's Central Park 15 at the 19th-century Monaco Wednesday, leaving the throne to -on the world map with his April Catlwdral whore he and Princess Prince Albert II, his only son with 18, 1956, marriage to KAlly, who (iraee wed. lin is exported to be actress Grace Kelly. gave up Hollywood famfl to become burind alongside her. 
In power for 56 of his 81 years, Princess Grace. At tho traditional midday changing Hainier was Europe's longflst-reign­Albert, 4 7, has been groomed from of the palace guards ceremony ing monarch and the only ruler many birth to succeed Hainiflr. Multilingual, Wodnesday, drums wnrn covnrod of Monaco's 32,000 residents had U.S. educated, and a fivp,-time bob­with black doth. Thn body of Haininr, ever known. sledding Olympian, he was at his whoso family dynasty took powor in 
A veritable father-figure, he father's bedside when Hainier died at 1297, was movnd to his hilltop palaeo draggod Monaco into tho modern age a hospital overlooking Monaco's where it will in lio in statn, thn palaeo while preserving much of the yacht-filled main harbor. said. 
page 6 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 7, 2005 
Church 
continued from page 1 
crisis and the revelation that many predatory priests had been relocated rather than removed caused many Catholics to desire a greater voice in choosing local church leaders. The Vatican refused to change its policy. 
As a result, many Americans turned their anger toward Rome. Kaveny said the empowerment of local leadership could have helped ease the minds of con­cerned American Catholics. 
"We need to empower our local bishops to address the situation in their own diocese, and I think the pope was a model of the uni­versal Church," Kaveny said. "The next call will be working out a fruitful relationship between the local and the univer­sal Church." 
Many have said John Paul II breathed new life into the priest­hood, inspiring new American priests to follow in his conserva­tive footsteps. The work of these young priests, many of whom are more conservative than their eld­ers in the priesthood, will play a key role in shaping the Church. 
But the number of priests is shrinking. Worldwide, their ranks have dropped by more than 15,000 during John Paul II's pontificate. 
Associate professor of history professor Robert Sullivan said, in response, that it is important to note the decline in the number of priests in America under John Paul II's reign is not an indicator of an unstable relationship with the U.S. Church. The shrinking numbers are apparent all over the world and are not character­istic of Catholicism alone, Sullivan said. 
"The decline in vocations is a 

worldwide problem; it is not con­
fined to United States," Sullivan 
said. "[The U.S. Church] not 
doing that badly relatively speak­
ing. There has also been great 
difficulty trying to fmd rabbis in 
any number." 
Pope John Paul II's firm stance 

on issues such as birth control, 
euthanasia and capital punish­
ment sparked debate in the 
United States and encouraged 
more non-Catholics to give th.e 
Church's views on such issues 
some of their attention, Sullivan 
said. 
"There has also been a kind of 

movement in the public sphere 
toward a greater willingness to 
entertain the Catholic position on 
a range of life issues," Sullivan 
said. "Political data suggests a 
slight increase in the number of 
people toward the Church's side." 
Kaveny said John Paul II 

reigned during a time when the 
U.S. Church faced issues that rocked its foundation. She also said dignity needs to be restored to the priesthood and its authori­ty. 
"I think that Pope John Paul II 

has shown that moral authority 
is really incredibly important in 
our media age," Kaveny said. 
"Not just the appearance of 
authority, but au\hority rooted in 
holiness." 
John Paul II's effect on 

American Catholics is only begin­
ning to become apparent, and 
the force of his impact is yet to be 
seen though it will likely play out 
gradually, parish by parish, 
according to the Associated 
Press. 
"In our relationships with God it's one soul at a time rather than mass movements," Sullivan said. "In his words and prayers he was able to strengthen the spiritual lives of individuals and that's the most anyone can hope to do." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
mmalone3@nd.edu 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
goal was "to make Notre Dame a more diverse place, not just on paper." Coleman referenced Diversity Awareness Week, Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transsexual (GLBT) Week and the Board of Trustees report focusing on equality as last year's key committee projects. 
New chair Sarah Liu said this year's committee would be different from last year's due to the addition of a Minority Affairs committee and men­tioned her biggest goal, a diversity retreat to be held next August. 
Liu said the retreat would cover race, religion, class and GLBT issues. 
Shappell, who previously served as Gender Issues committee chair, discussed last year's Sexual Assault Awareness Week and Eating Disorders Awareness Week and development within the Gender Resource Center. 
Incoming chair Ali Wishon said the committee would focus on awareness weeks as well as peer inter­vention groups, updated health and counseling cen­ter websites, resident assis­tant and rector training and increased male involve­ment. 
Residence Life committee 
chair Sarah Bates cited the 
projects involving a 24-hour 
copy machine in the 
LaFortune cluster, a "Flex 
10" meal proposal and a 
student discount at the 
Bookstore as key to last 
year's committee. 
Student body president 
Dave Baron stood in for 
new ResLife chair Mark 
Seiler and said this year 
would build off of past proj­
ects as well as work to get 
to-go cups in the dining 
hall, printers in every dorm, · 
24-hour spaces with wire­
less Internet access and a 
comprehensive report 
about a new student center. 
"We want to be proactive 
about what we want," 
Baron said. 
Former University Affairs 
committee chair Katie Boyle 
said last year's group 
worked on issues that affect students' everyday lives, such as Fair Trade coffee in the din­ing halls and LaFortune as well as basketball tickets, among other projects. 
Incoming chair Matt Walsh discussed his overall view of the committee, defining its area of concern as University policy that affects students and their lives and saying it would potentially target issues such as the dome scaffolding con­troversy, AllianceND recogni­tion and the programming endowment. 
Liz Kozlow, chief executive assistant and last year's Oversight committee chair, said last year's group exam­ined the student government constitution for inconsistencies and tried to change the transi­tion date, among other proj­ects. 

Returning senator and new committee chair Sujal Pandya said this year's Oversight com­mittee would continue last year's work, making minor changes in the constitution to increase efficiency and setting up .a master calendar. 
Minority Affairs, chaired by Rhea Boyd, and Community Relations, chaired by Nick Guzman, will be ad hoc com­mittees that will be soon be explained in further detail, Shappell said. 
Shappell noted committees will be composed of both sena­tors and non-Senate members, since anyone can apply to join. Some committees have up to 15 to 20 members, Shappell said. 
Besides the committee intro­ductions, liaison positions were also introduced. Senators can apply for seats on Judicial Council, Council of Representatives, Financial Management Board and Campus Life Council. 
Senators will be assigned to committees and liaison posi­tions by next meeting, Shappell said. 
In addition, senators passed three resolutions granting emeritus status to outgoing president Adam Istvan. outgo­ing vice president Karla Bell and outgoing chief executive assistant Baron. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Cun versity of notre dame 
0 

.JUNE 20 -AUGUST 5, 2005 
anthropology
·­
architecture art biology
(f) 

The 2005 summer session will begin on Monday, June 20 (enrollment), and end on Friday, August 5 (final exams). Some courses­primarily in science and languages-will begin and end before or after these dates. The Summer Session Bulletin contains complete 
schedule information. The Bulletin is available at the Summer Session Office ( 11 1 Earth Sciences Bldg.) beginning on Monday, February 
28. Information on summer courses, as it appears in the Bulletin, is also available at the Summer Sess1on Web site (www.nd.edu/-sumsess). 
Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 2005 who are eligible to return in the fall-must use Web Registration 
(1) to register for summer courses and (2) to add or drop courses according to the add and drop dates specific to each course. The Web Registration PIN (personal identification number) for summer is available on insideND for all continuing students. Instructions for course registration (selection) are available at http://registrar.nd.edu. Course reference numbers (CRNs) are published in the Bulletin and at the Summer Session Web site. 

(f) 
(J) 
(f) 
L.. 
(J) 
E 
E 
:J 
(f) 
business chemistry classical languages computer applications east asian languages economics engineering english film french german history irish studies italian mathematics music philosophy physics political science psychology sociology spanish theatre theology 

Web Registration will be available for summer registration from Wednesday, March 16, through the add and drop dates specific to each course. Students may reg1ster or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appointment 
times are necessary. 

Air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. Students may also apply for summer housing online at www.nd.edu/-sumsess 
Tuition for the summer session of 2005 will be $565 per credit hour for undergraduate students and $302 per credit hour for graduate students, plus a $50 general fee. 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS

Thursday, April 7, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
10,486.02 +27.56

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,945 175 ···~ 1,807,775,380 

AMEX I ,480.68 +4.80 NASDAQ 1,999.14 -0.18 NYSE 7,191.18 +20.28 S&PSOO 1,184.07 +2.68 NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,784.98 -42.18 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,947.40 +4.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NAS[).li.Q IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -0.16 -0.06 36.50 SIEBEL SYSTEMS (SEBL) -9.73 -0.89 8.26 MICROSOFT CP (MSFl) +0.82 +0.20 24.67 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.35 -0.08 23.05 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.28 -0.05 17.77 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.23 -0.1 I 47.42 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.76 -0.34 44.36 5-YEAR NOTE -0.99 -0.41 40.89 3-MONTH BILL -0.95 -0.26 27.02 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0. 19 55.85 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.60 429.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.30 92.10 
Excha Rates 

YEN 108.5700 EURO 0.7769 POUND 0.5318 CANADIAN$ 1.2221 
IN BRIEF 
Family store closes after 94 years 
KOKOMO, Ind. -A formal men's wear store owned by tho same family for 94 years will dose this summer, the owner says. 
Maher's Ill. named so because it represents tho third generation of family involvement, is selwd uled to close at the end of .I une because of declining business, owner Tom Maher said. 
"Casual Friday beeamn Monday, Tuesday, Wmlrwsday and Thursday," he said. "People just don't dress up or take any pride in their elothes anymore. 
"I just kept thinking it was going to get bet­ter. but. it's just not going to get better," he said. "()uality has gone by the wayside." 
Malwr said his grandfatlwr opened the first Kokomo Maher's store in 1911. The second ston~ in the linn, Maher's II, closed some years ago in the city some 50 miles north of Indianapolis. 
Malwr's wife and sistnr both work part time at the store. lin said lw have specific plans, hut will likely remain in the clothing busi­ness. 
California winery shipments increase 
BI~HKHI.EY. Calif. -Wino shipped by California wineries to U.S. markets increased by :~ rwrcent in 2004, which experts attrib­uted to a recovering economy and increased wine consumption. 
Overall. California wineries shipped 428 million gallons of winn to U.S. marknts in 2004, according to the Gomberg-Frndrikson report eompiled by wine analyst Jon 
Fn~drikson. 
Tlw San l'rancisco-basnd Wino Institute, which rPinasml the figmns Tuesday, ostimat­nd n~tail value of tho shipments at $15 billion. 
"Tiw market's n~bounding in a big way," Wine Institute spokeswoman Gladys Horiuchi said. 
As in previous years, supnrvalue winos such as Two Buck Chuek eontinued to sell well. making up 12 percent of California table wi1w shipments to the state's home marknt. 
St.ill. tlwre are signs that tho grape glut. which has lwnn driving down priens, is drying up. 
Thatnwans bargain prices could ovaporate, too, said Holwrt Smilny, a businnss professor at tho University of Calil'ornia, Davis. 
Vermont residents defeat law 
A close vote decides local Wal-Mart store can grow to 112,000 square feet 
Associated Press 
BENNINGTON, Vt. -In a closely watchod vote, rnsidents dncided against capping the size of big­box rntailors to 75,000 square feet -an attempt to halt an expansion of tho local Wai-Mart store. 
"I want a bigger Wai­Mart," said .Jessica Caron, 2(1, a mothnr or throe and a clerk at the Mobil gas station nnxt door to tho existing storn. 
Thn bylaw, nnaeted in Decnmbnr, was expected to prod uco a elosnr vote Tuesday but tho cap was rejneted 2,189-1,724. Tho turnout was 40 pnrcnnt of 9,650 registnred voters ­heavy l'or a special f~loc­tion. 
Workors had distributod thousands of handbills urging residents to sup­port the cap and nix Wal­Mart's plans to incroase its store to 112,000 square foot. Tho anti-cap campaign ran radio ads supporting its cause. 
The vietory for Wai­Mart Stores Inc. came al'tnr heavy advertising by Ohio-based real estate developer, Hndstone Investments. 

''I'm very happy for the people of Bennington, Vermont," said Redstone partner Jonathan Levy. that's really the best way used hundreds of illegal Vormont." "They took on Town Hall to run a government." she immigrants to dean the The vote in Bennington, and showed them what said. floors at its stores in 21 a town of 16,000 in the they thought about the The political fight lead­states. southwest corner of tho whole thing." ing up to the vote brought In 1993, two years stato, was elosely watdwd 
The local Planning out many of the familiar before the Bennington by lawmakers in Commission and Select arguments about big-box Wal-Mart opened, the Montpelier, whore a pnnd­Board studied the issue at retailers, with some voic­National Trust For ing bill would limit retail­length and unanimously ing fears a larger Wai­Historic Preservation put ers statewide to 50,000 supported the cap. Then, Mart would drive out the entire state of square feet. opponents .of a cap col­downtown businesses. Vermont on its list of the A main sponsor of thn lected more than 1,000 Others said those busi­"10 most endangered bill, Hepublican Snn. signatures to put the nesses needed competi­places," proelaiming the Vincent !IIuzzi. said he question to a town-wide tion. state was endangered by was rethinking his posi­vote. Wai-Mart has come a phenomenon it called tion and coming to believe 
Alicia Homac of the pro­under scrutiny around the "Sprawl-Mart." tho qunstion should bn left cap group Citizens for a country for its effects on Vermont made the list up to individual eornmuni­Greater Bennington said everything from its labor again last year whnn the tins. she wished the decision practices to the health of National Trust said its "I'm sure thorn are had been left up to elected other businesses in town "special magic" of historic existing stores in officials. and the traffic its stores villagns and bucolic coun­Bennington that will no 
"It's special interests gennrate. Last month, the tryside faced "an invasion longnr be in business in interfering with what's company agreed to pay a of behemoth stores that throe to f'ivn ynars," hn best for the community record $11 mill ion to set­could destroy much of said. "My hat's off to Wai­process, and I don't think tle federal allegations it what makes Vermont Mart and the devnlopor." 

MCI rejects Qwest's buyout offer 
Associated Press 
DENVEH -The board of MCI Inc. has rnjected an $8.9 billion buyout pro­posal from Qwest Communications, opting instead to go with a lesser oll'er from Vnrizon Comrnunieations lne. 
In a statemnnt <~arly Wednesday, the MCI board said the firm was "not will­ing to jnopardizn the certainty of its Vorizon agrnoment for the uncertain­ties surrounding the Qwest proposal." 
Qwest Communications International Inc., which has made throe bids for MCI, plans to evaluate the situation before doeiding its nnxt move, Qwest spokesman Stove Hammack said Tuesday night. 
"We are weighing our options, and shareholders will dietate the next steps in the process," llammaek said. "MCI's board of directors has chosen to rnjnct what we believe is a superior om~r to acquire MCI." 
Denver-based Qwest issued a mid­night Tuesday deadline to MCI last week when it raised its bid by noarly $500 million to $8.9 billion, or about 20 percent more than the sweotoned $7.5 billion Verizon bid that MCI accepted just days earlier. . 
Verizon spokesman Potor Thonis read a stat<~ment early Wednesday that said the company was "pleasnd." 
"We are looking f(ll'ward to working with MCI shareholdnrs to get tho deal done promptly," tho statement said. 
Verizon and Qwest, two of tho nation's biggest telephone companies, have been battling for about two months over Ashburn, Va.-basnd MCI, which operates a national libor-optir network sorving a lucrative rostPr of government and eorporatn dionL<;. 

MCI's board has bonn worrind about Qwest's financial troubles, including a $17 billion dnbt load, and tho long­tnrm valun of thn ()wnst shares that will bn usnd as partial payment liH· tlw buyout. As a rnsult, MCI has twic1~ aceepted lownr bids from Verizon rather than agnHdng to nwrgn wit.h ()west. 
Qwnst's most. rnr.nnt oll'nr of eash and stock was worth $27.50 a sharn. Vnrizon's latest. stoek-and-cash bid val­ues MCI at $23.1 0 pnr sham. up from $20.7 5 under thn original agnwnwnt those eompanins rnaelwd in mid­February. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 7, 2005 
FDA to reconsider ban on breast in1plants 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The gov­ernment is considering lifting a ban on most silicone-gel breast implants, but federal scientists question whether there's enough evidence indicating how long the devices will last inside a woman's body -or what health risks may result if they break. 
The Food and Drug Administration will consider the issue in a three-day meet­ing with its scientific advisers next week. The meeting is a key hurdle in determining whether the implants can re­enter the market. Since 1992, they have been available only to women enrolled in strictly controlled research studies because of fears they could cause major health problems. 
The implants have been largely exonerated of causing such serious illnesses as can­cer or lupus. But painful scar tissue that can form around the implants, breaks that require surgery to remove or replace implants, and other complications remain con­tentious. Ju~t 15 months ago, the FDA told manufacturers that it wouldn't lift restrictions on the implants' sale until questions about breakage in particular are settled. 
The FDA posted documents on the controversy on its Web site Wednesday. 
Competitors !named Corp. and Mentor Corp. believe they've met that requirement, arguing that breast implants, just like pacemakers or metal hips, don't last forever but that newer generations are accept­ably durable. They're better than salt water-filled implants that U.S. women can buy today, lnamed Vice President Dan Cohen said. 
Broken implants don't always cause immediate symp­toms, so the FDA asked manu­facturers to use MRI scans to track durability. Mentor cited one study suggesting three­year breakage rates ranging from fewer than 1 percent to 5 percent of patients. [named data showed that over four years, implants ruptured in 3.4 percent of women who had received them for breast enlargement patients -and in 
20.5 percent of breast cancer patients who received implants after a mastectomy. The com­pany attributed that higher rate to a particular implant model that is being redesigned. 
But those studies tracked small numbers of women for a· short time, FDA scientists cau­tioned in preliminary analyses posted on the Web site. 
"These data are of limited value" in determining how many years a woman can expect her implant to last ­and what pain or other compli­cations she might experience if it breaks and silicone gel oozes out, one FDA document con­cludes. 
In a second document, FDA scientists estimated that up to three-quarters of the devices might rupture within 10 years of implantation, requiring women to undergo additional surgery to remove or replace the implants. 
Moreover, additional docu­ments suggest that if the FDA approved widespread implant sales, implant recipients would be encouraged to get regular MRI exams, perhaps every year or two, to check for breakage. Those exams cost hundreds of dollars, and there's no way to ensure women would get them, said Diana Zuckerman of the National Research Center for Women and Families. 
It's the second time in less than two years that the FDA is debating the silicone-gel implants. In October 2003, its advisers narrowly recommend­ed allowing the implants to sell again, advice the agency declined to follow. 
Next week, the debate again will pit woman against woman, patients who say the implants caused lasting scars versus others who say the silicone-gel versions look and feel more natural than saline implants. The FDA has set aside an entire extended day -from 8 
a.m. to 11 p.m. on Monday ­to hear from the public. 


Gay civil unions bill approved 
Unlike Vermont, no court pressure motivates Connecticut vote 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. -The state Senate has approved a landmark bill that would make Connecticut the first state to recognize civil unions between same-sex couples without being pressured by the courts. 
Senators debated for nearly four hours on Wednesday· before voting 27-9 in favor of the bill, which would give gay and lesbian couples many of the same rights as married couples. Vermont has approved civil unions, but only after a lawsuit by same-sex couples. 
"We stand today before a portal to history," said Democratic Sen. Andrew McDonald, one of a handful of openly gay lawmakers. "I ask you to pass through it." 
Proponents say the legisla­tion will likely clear the House of Representatives, possibly as early as next week. Republican Gov. M. Jodi Hell has not taken a stand on the bill, but has said she supports the concept of civil unions. 
Brian Brown, executive director of the Family Institute of Connecticut, maintained that most voters do not sup­port civil unions or same-sex marriage, and he called the vote "a slap in the face of democracy." 
"This is same-sex marriage by a different name," Brown said. 
The vote came a day after Kansas became the 18th state to pass a constitutional amend­ment banning gay marriage. Thirteen other states passed such prohibitions last year, while Alabama, South Dakota and Tennessee plan elections next year on constitutional bans. 
Gay rights proponents origi­nally hoped to pass a bill simi­lar to the Massachusetts law that allows same-sex couples to marry. But legislative lead­ers determi~ed there was more political support this ses­sion for Vermont-style civil unions, which extend the same rights and privileges of mar­riage, but without the mar­riage license. 

According to the 2000 cen­sus, there were 7,400 same­sex couples in Connecticut. 
Six of the Senate's 12 Republicans and 21 of the 24 Democrats voted for the bill. Six Republicans and three Democrats voted against it. 
Civil union supporters said the state should be proud to voluntarily extend basic human rights to thousands of gay and lesbian couples. 
"I believe that our most pre­cious a"nd important job is to make sure the rights of all our citizens are protected whore they exist and expanded where they don't exist," said Democratic Sen. Mary Ann Handley, who is part of a group of legislators who plan to press for gay marriage in Connecticut. 

:Reader's Choice :Recommends 


Ya-Yas in Bloom by Rebecca Wells ,. 
YA-YAS IN BLOOM reveals the roots of the Ya-Yas' friendship in the 1930s and roars with all the raw power of Vivi Abbott Walker's 1962 T-Bird through sixty years of marriage, child-raising, and hair-raising family secrets. 
by Rebecca Wells After two bestsellers and a blockbuster movie, the Ya-Yas have become part of American culture-­icons for the power of women's friendship. 



Breakdown Lane by Jacquelyn Mitchard Written with Mitchard's trademark poignancy, humor, and insight, The Breakdown Lane is her most moving, eloquent, and life-affirming work yet. 
Divine Secrets ofthe Ya-Ya Sisterhood 
l{lJN FOR A CAlJSE..•RUN FOR HOPE! 



HELJ> .n:St.JS NAVARRO GET THE KH>NEV TRANSPLANT HE NEEDS BY PARHCIPATING IN HOLY CROSS COLLEGE'S "RVN FOR HOPE" ON APRIL 16T11l REGISTEI< BY APRIL 12'~> FOR $10! (Registration will be open the day of the race for an additional 
$5 to ~·our original price,) · 

TO I>OWJ\LOAD THE REGISTRATION FORM ANI> FOR MORE 1:'1/FORMATIO.!\ PLI!:ASE VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT: ww·w.bcc-nd.edu 
Thursday, April 7, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
SOUTH AFRICA 



Treaty pacifies Ivory Coast 
Mbeki helps warring factions agree on disarmament, new elections 
Associated Press 
CAPE TOWN -Ivory Coast's warring factions agreed Wednesday to end hostilities, start immediate disarmament and make plans for new elec­tions in a bid to prevent a renewed explosion of violence in the world's leading cocoa producer. 
The agreement followed four days of talks in Pretoria mediated by South African President Thabo Mbeki, who summoned all sides to his country's capital to try to res­cue the peace process. The negotiations were the factions' first face-to-face meeting since civil war flared up again last fall in the West African nation. 
"The parties ... hereby solemnly declare the immedi­ate and final cessation of all hostilities and the end of the war through the national ter­ritory," said the agreement signed in Pretoria. 
"In this regard, they unequivocally repudiate the usc of force as a means to resolve differences among themselves," the accord said, acknowledging the "untold misery and suffering" inflicted on the lvorian people and the disastrous economic repercus­sions of the fighting. 
Ivory Coast has been split between the rebel-held north and loyalist south since a failed coup attempt in 2002. A peace accord was reached in France in January 2003, but to little avail. A cease-fire reached in May of the same year was violated twice by lvorian President Laurent Gbagbo, raising doubts about elections. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan welcomed the accord and urged both sides to follow through with their commit­ments "promptly and in good faith," his spokesman Fred Eckhard said in a statement. 
The agreement commits the warring factions to "immedi­ately proceed with the disar­mament and dismantling of the militia throughout the entire national territory." 
All sides said they were committed to holding presi­dential and parliamentary elections scheduled in October. On his return to Abidjan, the lvorian capital, Gbagbo said disarmament would begin April 14 in the northern rebel headquarters at Bouake town. 
A copy of the deal, which was signed by Mbeki, Gbagbo, Prime Minister Seydou Diarra, former President Henri Bedie, opposition leader Alassane Ouattara and rebel leader Guillaume Soro, was sent to The Associated Press in Cape Town. 
Mbeki, who was mediating on behalf of the African Union, said all sides had agreed to the text after negotiations ran for two extra days. 
To promote fairness and transparency, the agreement said the United Nations would be invited to participate in an Independent Electoral Commission comprising repre­sentatives of both the ruling party and rebels. 
The accord also gave a more prominent role to the prime minister, who is regarded as much more moderate and conciliatory than Gbagbo. 
However, the trickiest issue -the eligibility of presidential candidates -was not final­ized. The current constitution contains a clause that all pres­idential candidates be second­generation lvorians. As it stands, the clause effectively bars Ouattara -a former prime minister who is consid­ered Gbagbo's main opponent -from running. 
Mbeki said he was confident this could be sorted out within 
a  week,  according  to  the  
South  African  Press  
Association.  

The U.N. Security Council on Monday extended the man­date of its peacekeeping mis­sion in Ivory Coast for a month to give more time to mediation efforts. The council had threatened sanctions to com­plement an arms embargo in place since November. 
The United Nations has 6,000 peacekeepers in the buffer zone between the two parts of the country, and France has an additional 4,000 soldiers. 
The Pretoria talks marked the first face-to-face meeting of all the factions since vio­lence flared in November, when Gbagbo sent his newly built-up air force on bombing runs in the north. 

College of Arts·and Letters 
University of Notre Dame 
Invites Nominations 
for 
the Father Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Hugh R. Page, Jr. Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Tuesday, 12 April 2005 
MEXICO 

Civilian border guards slovv inunigrant influx 
Determined migrants promise to find other routes through desert 
Associated Press 
AGUA PRIETA -The number of Mexican migrants trying to sneak into the United States through southeast Arizona has dropped by half since hundreds of U.S. civilians began guarding the area earlier this week, say Mexican officials assigned to protect their citizens. 
But that doesn't mean the migrants have given up. Most remain determined to cross and say they will simply avoid the 23-mile stretch of desert between Agua Prieta and Naco, where volunteers from the "Minuteman Project" are guarding the U.S. side of the border. 
Grupo Beta, a Mexican gov­ernment-sponsored organiza­tion that tries to discourage people from crossing illegally and aids those stranded in the desert, began patrolling that area along with state police offi­cers on Sunday, when Minuteman anti-immigrant activists began showing up. 
Before the volunteers arrived, Grupo Beta encountered at least 400 migrants daily. On Monday, the second day Minutemen were present on the border, they spotted 198, said ·Bertha de Ia Hosa. Beta's coordinator in 

Agua Prieta, a town across the 
border from Douglas, Ariz. 
De Ia Hosa said that doesn't 

mean most have decided to stay 
home. 
"The fact that we're not see­

ing them here doesn't mean 
they are not trying to cross," de 
Ia Rosa said. "They say they will 
look for another place or wait 
awhile -but they are not giv­
ing up." 
Grupo Beta, along with armed 

state police officers, began 
patrolling the Mexican side of 
the border on Sunday. 
Jose Luis Mercado is among 

those determined to cross. 
Mercado, a f'arm worker from central Mexico state, was one of 10 migrants who walked through the desert all night Monday and early Tuesday ·before they were abandoned by the smuggler they had paid to 
g<!'t thPm across the bordPr. 
"lie just said it was too risky 

to cross and to wait f'or him, but 
he never came back," Mercado 
said. 
Mercado, like most migrants 

trying to eross into the United 
States from this dusty border 
city, had been unaware of the 
Minuteman Project, despite 
extensive news media coverage 
of the group. 
He and his companions were 

resting in a ditch littered with 
plastic bottles, clothes and 
empty tuna cans when they 
were spotted by Grupo Beta 
agent Hector Salazar. 
Journalist's house arrest concludes early 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -A fed­eral judge on Wednesday granted a television reporter early release from the home­confinement sentence he was serving for failing to disclose the source of a videotape that showed a city official taking a cash bribe. 
Jim Taricani, 55, was expected to be released Saturday, two months earlier than his original release date. He was originally scheduled to be released in June. 
Taricani sought early release, and U.S. District Court Judge Ernest Torres found that Taricani had com­plied with all the conditions of the home confinement, which included a ban on him work­ing, giving media interviews or using the Internet. 
Prosecutors also did not object to releasing him early. The order frees Taricani from probation or any further court supervision. 
Taricani, who works for the NBC affiliate WJAR-TV, has been confined to his home since Dec. 9. He was given a six-month sentence for failing to disclose the source of the video. 
Taricani, who is a heart transplant recipient and suf­fers from a variety of medical ailments, cannot speak to the media until his release on Saturday. 

"We are very relieved, very happy," said Taricani's wife, Laurie White. She said her husband's health is stable, and he is looking forward to walking and enjoying outside air. 
His TV station said in a statement that it was pleased by the ruling and looked for­ward to Taricani's return. White said she expected her husband to be back at work as early as next week, at least on a part-time basis. 
Taricani's lawyer, Deming Sherman, referred all calls to the station. 
Six days after Taricani was found guilty, his source. defense lawyer Joseph Bevilacqua Jr., admitted that he had given Taricani the tape. Bevilacqua had previ­ously denied under oath that he had been Taricani's source and is now the subject of a criminal investigation. 
Taricani is among a small but growing number of reporters who have became ensnared in the legal system for defying judicial demands to disclose where they got information. At least 16 reporters and 14 news organi­zations are involved in legal fights in courthouses from New York and Washington to San Francisco. 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, April 7, 2005 
AFGHANISTAN 
U.S. Inilitary copter 
crash kills 16 people 
Associated Press 
KABUL-A U.S. military heli­copter returning from a mission smashed into the southern Afghan desert Wednesday, killing at least 16 people in the deadliest military crash since the fall of the Taliban in late 2001. An Afghan official said most of the dead appeared to be Americans. 
The CH-47 Chinook was returning to the U.S. base at Bagram from a mission in the militant-plagued south when it went down near Ghazni city, 80 miles southwest of the capital, Kabul. 
"Indications are it was bad weather and that there were no survivors," said a U.S. spokes­woman, Lt. Cindy Moore. An Afghan official said there were no signs the craft was shot down. 
A U.S. military statement said 16 deaths had been confirmed and two other people listed on the flight manifest were "unac­counted for" when the recovery operation was suspended at nightfall. 
U.S. officials said the four crew members killed were Americans, but declined to give the national­ities of the passengers. The names of the victims were being withheld pending notification of next of kin. 
Moore said the transport heli­
copter was returning from a 
"routine mission" when con­
trollers lost radio contact. A sec­
ond Chinook made it safely back 
to the sprawling base north of 
Kabul. 
Associated Press Television 
News footage showed dozens of 
Afghan security forces and offi­
cials scurrying round burning 
wreckage. Strong winds that had 
whipped thick dust into the 
darkened sky fanned the flames. 
Abdul Rahman Sarjang, the chief of police in Ghazni, said the helicopter crached about 2:30 
p.m. near a brick factory 3 miles outside the city and burst into flames. U.S. troops rushed to cordon off the area, he said. 
Sarjang said he saw nine bod­ies. "They were all wearing American uniforms and they were all dead," he told The Associated Press by cell phone from the crash site. 
Sarjang said that the weather was cloudy with strong winds and that witnesses reported one of the helicopter's two rotors looked damaged before it hit the ground. He said he saw no.sign of enemy fire, and militants issued no immediate claim of responsibility 
According to U.S. Department of Defense statistics, at least 122 American soldiers had died before Wednesday's incident in and around Afghanistan since Operation Enduring Freedom, the U .S.-led war on terrorism, began after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. 
Accidents have proven almost as deadly as attacks from Taliban-led insurgents, including a string of helicopter crashes and explosions caused by mines and munitions left over from the country's long wars. 
The previous worst incident in Afghanistan was an accidental explosion at an arms dump in Ghazni province that killed eight American soldiers in January 2004. 
Most recently, four U.S. sol­
diers died when a land mine 
exploded under their vehicle 
south of Kabul on March 26. 
Last November, six Americans -three civilian crew members and three U.S. soldiers -died when their plane crashed in the Hindu Kush mountains. The mil­itary's last fatal helicopter crash occurred a month earlier when a pilot was killed in the west of the country. 
About 17,000 U.S. soldiers are 
in Afghanistan battling a 
Taliban-led insurgency and 
training a new Afghan army. 
The top U.S. commander here, 
Lt. Gen. David Barno, told AP on 
Tuesday that the military would 
also now train Afghan police and 
provide intelligence to Afghan 
forces battling the country's 
rampant drug industry. 


SizeD es 


• 
Walk to campus 

• 
Hook-up with friends, just blocks from your 



* Restrictions apply. Expires 4/15/05 


favorite night spots 
• 
Bronze yourself at our pool 

• 
Keep your car clean in our car ports 


• Check out our $1 ,000,000 BABY toll-free 1.866.395.4201 www.aimco.com 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 


#1 PLACE TO BE AT ND 

• 
Registration Instructions and Tutorial 

• 
Class Search Tutorial 


• 
Course Renumbering Information 

• 
Frequently Asked Questions 


• 
Exemption Form Replacement Information 


~UNIVERSITY OF 
'WNOTREDAME 
Office of the Registrar 

Buy a Mac now and you'll have more than everything you need for college, including $100 in spending money. Simply buy a qualifying Mac* with your student discount at your campus computer store, an Apple Store near you, or the Apple Store for Education online from May 2 through June 25,2005, and receive $100 via a mail-in rebate. 

Every Mac is perfect for campus life. Pick yours now. 
Promotional prices start at just $849 when you buy now. 
Visit www.apple.com/go/savenow for your mail-in rebate coupon, full terms and conditions, and store locations. Rebate coupon must be redeemed within 30 days of purchase. 
Offer is for qualified education individuals only. Price shown includes S 100 mail-in rebate, does not mdude taxes or shipping, is subject to change, and is listed in U.S. dollars. ·Excludes 12-inch iBook with CD-ROM drive, eMac, and Mac mini models. 
TM and Q 2005 Apple Computer. Inc. All rights reserved. L309194A 
Thursday, April 7, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS page II 

Celebrities attend Cochran's funeral 

Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Johnnie Cochran Jr.'s most celebrated clients, O.J. Simpson and Michael Jackson, joined civil rights figures and Hollywood stars at the lawyer's funeral Wednesday, remembering Cochran's cunning legal skills and his commitment to the peo­ple he represented. 
Cochran, 67, died March 29 of an inoperable brain tumor at his home in Los Angeles. He was diagnosed with the tumor in December 2003. 
"He didn't just love justice or admire justice -he did justice, he achieved justice, he fought for justice, he made it happen," said Mayor James Hahn, the former city attorney and a Cochran friend. 
The Rev. AI Sharpton drew applause fr?m the packed West Angeles Cathedral -a throng that ranged from the Hev. Jesse Jackson to Michael Jackson ­by describing the emotional aftermath of the Simpson trial. 
"We didn't clap when the acquittal of Simpson came for O.J.," Sharpton said. "We were clapping for Johnnie." 
"We were clapping because for decades our brothers, our cousins. our uncles had to stand in the well with no one to stand up for them. And finally a black man came and said, 'If it don't fit -you must acquit,"' Sharpton said, referring to Cochran's famous quote from Simpson's sensational trial about a glove found at the mur­der scene. 
The line drew a roar from the crowd, which also heard from other figures in Cochran's life, including two other members of the Simpson "dream team," Peter Neufeld and Barry Scheck. 
The line was on the back ofT­shirts being sold for $10 outside the church. The shirts had a picture of Cochran on the front with the words: "Freedom and justice." 
Colorful and eloquent, Cochran became a legal super­star after helping clear Simpson. 
"Johnnie fought for his clients," Simpson told reporters outside the cathedral. "lie was just a good friend, a good Christian man and a great lawyer." 
Jesse Jac·kson called Cochran "the tallnst tree in our legal for­est. ... Tht> national stagc~ did not make .Johnnie, it revealed him." 
The range of mourners reflected Cochran's work in high-profile civil rights cases and high-glamour trials. Also paying respects were such celebrities as Stevie Wonder and Earvin "Magic" Johnson. 
Neufeld said Cochran's real accomplishments were in civil rights and defending downtrod­den clients: "Johnnie Cochran taught us the importance of doing well by doing good. lie lived it and preached it, and the world is a better place for all of us." 

Percentage of primate 
species may disappear 
Associated Press 

CAPE TOWN, South Africa­Human activities such as hunt­ing and logging have driven nearly one quarter of the world's primate species ­man's closest living relatives -to the brink of extinction, according to a new report. 
Without concerted action, great apes such as the Sumatran orangutan of Indonesia and the Eastern gorilla of central Africa are at risk of disappearing, according to the report to be released Thursday by the World Conservation Union, the International Primatological Society and Conservation International. 
It said Madagascar and Vietnam each have four pri­mates on ·the list of 25 most endangered. Brazil and Indonesia have three. Sri Lanka and Tanzania have with two each. Colombia, China, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Equatorial Guinea, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Rwanda, Uganda, and Congo have one each. 
"The situation for these pri­mates is down to the wire in terms of extinction," said Russell A. Mittermeier, presi­dent of Conservation International. "If you took all the individuals on the list and gave them a seat in a soccer stadium, they probably• would-n't fill it," he said in a tele­phone interview from Madagascar, where primate specialists are meeting. 
While listing 25 species as most endangered, the report said that one in four of the 625 primate species and sub­species are at risk. Fifty experts from 16 countries cited deforestation, commer­cial hunting for meat and the illegal animal trade -includ­ing for use in traditional medi­cines -as the biggest threats. 
The golden-headed langur of Vietnam and China's Hainan gibbon number only in the dozens. The Horton Plains slender loris of Sri Lanka has been seen just four times since 1937. PPrrier's sifaka of Madagascar and the Tana Hiver rc1d colobus of Kenya arc now restricted to tiny patches of tropical f'orest, leaving them vulnerabiP to rapid eradica­tion, the n•port said. 
The threat is especially per­ilous in Madagascar, one of the planet's biodiversity hotspots that has lost most of its origi­nal forest cover, the study said. 
"More than half its lemurs, 
none found anywhere else in 
the world, are threatened with 
extinction. Without immediate 
steps to protect these unique 
creatures and their habitat, 
we will lose more of our plan­
et's natural heritage forever." 
Mittermeier said. 


Tl··l E OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT

page 12 Thursday, April 7, 2005 

THE OBSERVER 
The lndepnuknt, Daily N.w~pn-&ruing Notre Daml! ~tnd Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DFSIGN MANAGER: jennifer Kenning 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter 
CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe srudenrs ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
Schiavo not to be overlooked 
Schiavo is more important than Roe v. Wade. In Roe, the Court can­celled prohibitions of abortion because the Court wrongly said the unborn child is not a person whose life is protected by 
Charles
the Fourteenth 
Rice
Amendment against deprivation by the Right or state. The courts do Wrong? not themselves order abortions. The mother makes that decision. In Schiavo the state itself ordered Terri's execution. As Columbia law professor Michael Dorf commented on U.S. District Judge Whittemore's ruling that there was no state action and therefore no Fourteenth amendment violation, "Judge Greer issued an order instructing Michael Schiavo to remove Terri's feeding tube, even specifying the exact date and time ... The state court did not merely stand idly by while permitting Michael to take such action;.the court ... man­dated the disconnection. That ought to have counted as state action by a state actor." 
In Schiavo, the state itself executed an innocent person without the pro­tections mandated for a defendant accused of capital murder or even of shoplifting. Judge Greer found that Terri was in a persistent vegetative state (PVS), in the face of contrary evidence, and that she would have wanted her tube removed. He relied on Michael's testimony despite Michael's conflicting statements and despite his conflict of interest that should have caused his removal as guardian. The Florida courts deferred robotically to Greer's find­ings which they never would have done in a criminal death penalty case. Nor would a convicted murder­er's desire to die be considered by any court as a justification for sen­tencing him to death. The federal courts refused Terri the stay of exe­cution which is automatic whenever a condemned murderer brings his case from the state courts to a feder­al court. Governor Bush also abdi­cated his responsibility by his defer­ence to Judge Greer. 
Schiavo is important for reasons beyond judicial abuse. Since the Bouvia case in 1986, the law allows a competent adult to starve and dehydrate himself to death. This is a form of suicide. If a person is incom­petent, food and water may legally be withheld from him if there is evi­dence that he would hiwe wanted that withholding or, in some states, if a court decides that the withholding would be in his best interest. Where the family and caregivers agree that food and water should be with­drawn, it is commonly done without court involvement. The intent to deprive a patient permanently of food and water is essentially an intent to kill. In moral terms it is murder. A ben.evolent motive does not change that reality. 
John Paul II said, "the administra­tion of water and food, even ... by artificial means, always [is] a natu­ral means of preserving life, not a medical act." It is "morally obligato­ry" as long as it is achieving its goal of "providing nourishment to the patient and alleviation of his suffer­ing." Food and water do not aim to cure the patient's underlying disease or the suffering caused by it. They sustain biological life, nourish the body, and prevent the suffering of hunger and thirst. "Death by starva­tion or dehydration," said John Paul, "is ... the only possible outcome ... of their withdrawal." 
The only reason anyone heard of Schiavo was because Michael wanted to kill Terri and her parents and sib­lings did not. An impasse arising from such disagreement was inevitable in a legal regime which allows family members, who agree, to kill quietly an incompetent rela­tive. 
In Schiavo, the focus on PVS, including Governor Bush's petition to intervene on the ground that Terri might not have been PVS, generated an inference that an indisputably PVS patient would want to end his life. Schiavo is precedent for courts to order the starvation of PVS patients in reliance on testimony of hostile, court-appointed guardians even against the wishes of family members who want to care for the patient. With diminished public attention, starvation will give way to the painless injection. And the trig­gering disability will drop below PVS. 

In late 1938, the Knauer case, in which Hitler authorized euthanasia of a blind and deformed infant, was the "test case" that "was pivotal for the two killing programs of children and of adults." (Robert Jay Lifton, The Nazi Doctors (1986), 51). Within months the grounds for killing included such defects as cleft palates and "badly modeled ears." Those programs evolved into the Holocaust. 
It is useless to criticize the Schiavo execution by the state of an inno­cent, disabled person without con­fronting the practice that allows family members to starve and dehy­drate an incompetent patient to death when they agree thaJ he would so desire. More basically, Schiavo is a predictable result of the accept­ance of contraception in which man, of both sexes, assumes the role of arbiter of whether and when life shall begin. Inevitably that role will extend to that of arbiter of whether and when life shall end. 
The Nazis, as arbiters of the value and termination of life, brought dis­aster to Germany. Maybe, because we are Americans, God will consent to be mocked indefinitely. But it might not be a good idea to count on it. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be con­tacted at plawecki.J@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are thos~ of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom reg4rding Observerpolicies shPu!d be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obscm:t (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mrmday through Friday except during exam and vacatinn periods. Asub.s:c:ription to The Observ~ is $I 00 for one academic year: $55 for one semes-cer. 
The Observer is published at~ POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addrw corrections lO: Nom: Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Ptriodic:al posuge paid ar Notte Dame P.O. Boxn9 .md additional m.ailing offi~. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrc Dame:, IN 46556...0'779 

The Obst-rvcr is 2 ntembcr of dte Associated Preu. All reproduction rights are rCSCTvaL 
TODAY'S STAFF 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



NC.M·J(;"'~ M1~Nv, 



News Sports Eileen Duffy Matt Puglisi 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Karen Langley Ken Fowler Jen Howling Ryan Kiefer 
ISubmit aLetter 

"Genius may have its limitations, 
Viewpoint Scene For what will you most Joey King Kenyatta Storin 

but stupidity is not thus 
·"' remember John Paul II? 
handicapped."
Graphics Illustrator 
Ito the~ Editorat

Kelly MacDonald Katie Knorr 
1 . .. ·. .. . . ....
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Elbert Hubbard 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
11 www.ndsmcobserver.com 
American author
·)) 
··=.?:::::::::·:·: .......... 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT

Thursday, April 7, 2005 page 13 
Embrace the season 

Thn death of Pope .John Paul II on Saturday has left the world mourning tlw loss of a great man and wonder­ing who will bf' snlnctnd to lead thn Catholic Church at this critical time. Luckily !'or us Amnrieans, however, we have b«>ml handnd a wnkonw distraction from all of our sorrows: tlw start of baseball season. The lirst regular 
season ganw of tho year took place  
in the Bronx on Sunday night, when  Molly Acker  
tho Yanknns upniHIPd their hated rivals, tlw Boston Hod Sox. For most other tnams, hownvnr. Monday after- 1\r l d 1 'k 'vo JO Y ,l es a/Jumb Blonde  
noon marked thn start of t.lw 2005  

campaign. Ballparks <uToss tho nation wnkom11d fans hark to dwnr on tlwir favorite teams and partake in some of Anwriea's most time-honornd traditions. 
It is rathnr appropriate that Major League Baseball raised its eurtain on 2005 just as many of its fans found thnms1~lves in a statn of grin!'. For over 150 years, base­ball has provided Amnricans with wnleomnd relief dur­ing tumultuous limns. Though the gamn is thought to havn bonn inwntnd during the 1 H40s, it was tho Civil War that pPrmittnd it-to flourish, when Union soldiers playnd tlw !{amn as a way to pass tho timn during an otlwrwisn grim pnriod. Similarly, basnball provided rnlief on the homo front during the Second World War. Although gn~at players like Ted Williams had to abandon tlw ganw in onlor to dnf111HI the country, the major leagues gavn Amnrkans an opportunity to rnad about sonwthing otlwr than troop movenwnts and casualties in tlw moming nnwspapnrs. In addition, the war prncipitat­Pd thn formation ol' thn lirst all-liHnale lnagun, which was immortalizml in tho Tom flanks movie A League of tlwir Own. 
1\von wlwn hasohall was not distracting people from tho horrors of war. it still provided poopln with a tmnpo­rary Pseapn from thnir daily lives. In ordnr to appredato hasPball's importance in Amerkan eulturn, one need not to look any further than the way in which we have come to idolize those who play tho gamo. Babe Huth has long boon eonsidnrnd a symbol of the fast-paend, excessive lifnstyln of tho 1920s; Lou Gehrig is lookod upon as a souren of courage and pnrseveranee in the face of a 
hopeless situation; and .Jackie Hobinson's emergence with the Brooklyn Dodgers is heralded as a key moment in the Civil Hights movnment. 
Nowadays peoplo 1mjoy tho games for the samn rna­sons. Although ovnrpaid players, nlevated tieket prices, and steroid scandals may havn caused baseball to lose somn of its innocence, millions of fans still eagerly antici­pate hearing the umpire yell "Play ball" for the first time each year. In my hometown of Chicago, the beginning of the baseball season is always an exeiting time, as the rivalry between the dty's two teams is rem~wed. True basnball fans in the Windy City must choose between the White Sox and the Cubs, and simply "rooting for Chicago" is eomplntely unacceptable. As a popular South Side song reiterates, "And when it comes to basnball, we have two favorite dubs: the Go-Go White Sox and who­ever plays the Cubs!" 
As a White Sox fan. the onset of spring always allows me the opportunity to trash talk some of my North-side rivals. I usually take some time to remind them that the Cubs havn not won a World Series since the Hoosevelt Administration (Theodore Hoosnvolt that is). Also, I usu­ally makn sure that they are aware that llarry Caray spent morn seasons as the Whito Sox announcer than he did as the voice of the Cubs. Finally, I like to point out that, unlike those who flock to Wrigloy Field to simply drink and pnople-wateh, Sox fans aetually go to baseball games in order to watch baseball. 
In addition to somn good naturnd Cubs-bashing, I also enjoy the start ol' baseball season bocauso it allows me to bnconw macquaintnd with many of the institutions that have become a part of my White Sox experiem~es. Certainly, I always enjoy ballpark food, and U.S. Cellular Field has some ol' the best in basoball. In addition to sta­ples sueh as hot dogs, pretzels and popeorn, "the Cell" also has great pizza, curly fries and churros. 
In addition to the great cuisine, I also look forward to hearing the familiar tunc of the ballpark organ. On the South Side, Naney Faust has boen the White Sox organist for several docades, and she has become a sort of local eelebrity. In addition to thn always liuniliar, "Take Me Out to the Ball (;;um~." she also plays classic tunes sut'h as "Hunaround Sun," "My Kind of Town" and "Na Na llny lley Kiss llim (;oodbye," whieh has been adoptnd as tho unollieial fight song of tlw White Sox. 

While the food and music always add to tho ballpark experience, my personal favorite aspect of Whitn Sox games is sadly no longer with us. From the I1J(>0s until the 1990s, a man known as "Andy the Clown" bm:anw a fixture on tho South Side. Nnvnr nmploynd by the team, Andy was simply a !'an who would attnnd nvnry homo game drnssed in a cheap down suit, with a light-up nose, and a bowling hat. In addition to his fnstivn appearance he would also kind ol' sing out his cheers. lin became famous for his battle ery, "C'mooooooooooon you White Sox." While I was always entortairwd by Andy's antics, others worn not. Whnn the Sox moved into a nnw stadium in 1991, managenwnt made it dear that he would no longer bn weleome at homo ganws. Andy died several years later, and South Side Ion~ says that it was due to a broken heart. 
I like to romnmbnr Andy's lngaey by wearing my Andy the Clown t-shirt shirt to games. Not only is this a gn~at eonversati~m startnr with tho old tinwrs at tlw park. but it also usually guarantees you at h1ast orw frn1~ b1wnragn during the gamn. I am surn many of you havn your own favorite institutions that como with baseball snason whothnr it be wearing your team's cap or scouring tho paper f'or scorns evnry day. Now that it is bnginning to warm up it is high time we take advantage of' what can be a mueh-nended distrae.tion from books, tests and tlw world around us. So while wn arn still in South Bnnd for tho next few weeks, go cheek out a Notre Dame or Silverhawks mateh. Hnjoy a day at the old ball ganw! 
Molly Acker is a junior communications and humanis­tic studies major at.'·iainl Maryk 1/er column appears every other Thursday. ,','he can be contacted at acke6 758@sainlmarys. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those oj'The Obser11er. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
It could be worse 


I am writing to respond to a Iotter written by Duncan Melntyre entitled "Cable creates dis­tractions," which was printed on April 6. Thorn is one line in the letter that I would specifically like to analyze. Mr. Melntyre states, "I would likn to put forward the opin­ion that providing cable in the dorms would be the worst thing that could possibly happen to this University." I have come up with examples that, in my humble opinion, are elearly worse than Notre Damn providing eablc in the dorms. 
I. The radiation building explodes causing studonts to snnk refuge at either Saint Mary's or Stepan Cnnter. 
2. 
A plague of locusts mysteriously descends upon campus and infests every elassroom building to bn~ed. 

3. 
In a frnak accident, the scaffolding over the dome collapses and turns a $500,000 ren­ovation into a $10 million rebuilding process. 

4. 
;\ rnntnor the size of a Volkswagon collides into DeBartolo llall during peak elass time. 

5. 
Pownr gons out in Michigan and northern Indiana for the remainder of the semester, causing studnnts and teachors alike to resort to using typewriters to type final papers and nxams. 

6. 
The administration decides to cancel this ynar's comnwncement cnremonios due to a "laek of enthusiasm." 

7. 
Notre Dame professors begin a strike which thny elaim will last until the next Notre Dame football championship. 


H. A draught causos St. Mary's and St. .Joseph's lakos to dry up. 
9. 
Father Poorman establishes a new posi­tion for the University ontitled Spiritual Advisor and appoints Michael Jackson an unconditional spot there for the remainder of his tenure. 

10. 
All Notre Dame alumni stop donating money, forever. 


The scenarios I just described may be outra­geous, but they are not as ridiculous as a col­lege graduate believing that putting cable into dorm rooms is the worst possible thing that uould happen to a school. This will be my last semester living on campus, so this decision will have little if any effect on me personally. However, I believe that asking the administra­tion to put cable in the dorms is not asking too much. The majority of schools that are similar to ours as far as tradition and demographies are concerned already have provided cable to their students living on campus. The imple­mentation of cable in the dorms would almost eliminate the usage of satellites that litter the exteriors of many dorms and provide an opportunity to get a decent number of chan­nels for students living in dorms which pro­hibit the use of satellites. If television is such a big distraction for students who are already very busy with classes and extracurricular activities, it ean be turned ofT. Let individuals decide how they want to spend their time. 
Sean Ryan junior Stanford April6 
U-WIRE 

Individual responsibility 
The University of Oklahoma is experimenting with the 1920s all over again. That's right: Prohibition. It seems that OU is not the only campus to dry out, either. In fact, many universities around the nation are banning the bottlo. 
But why? Well, it seems that our univorsities are full of idioL-;. Aetually, allow me to darify. Our universi­ties are full of two kinds of' idioL-;. Jonas 
The first type eonsisL-; of binge drinkers. Hogg These arc the people whose sole purpose 
Kansas State 

is to consume as much of the cheapest 
llnicwrsity

booze around in the shortest possibln time. 
Collegian

It seems that-surprise, surprise-these people are starting to turn up dead on an increasingly frequent basis. 
Obviously, if you arn one of the people who believe "one drink is good, so 100 must be the eat's meow," then you are failing on the smart scale. Buzzzzz! No gene passing li1r you, plant food! 
The seeond group of idioL-; are those "in power," who are choosing to punish an entire student body due to the irresponsi­bility of a handful of people. Beeauso, everyone knows, if' you have a problem, just pass a new law. After all, the 1 Hth Amendment-prohibition-solved all sorb of problmns. 
This llat ban simply begs the question, why should Billy Hay be punished just because Amy Sue is a dolt and drank lwrsnlf' to death? 
Tho answer is that even though Billy Hay didn't ewm know Amy Sue, he must have been, through some bizarre aligning of the planets, part of the problem that caused Amy Sue to die. 
Although the f(mnders of this eountry seemed to bn a big fan of' personal rosponsibility, it is refreshing to see that sud1 an out­moded and defunct value has not stuck around to plague us. After all, personal responsibility would dictate that I, personally, should bo mindful of how mueh I'm drinking. 
But cropping up as a solution to that pesky rnsponsibility prob­lem is the good old notion of "punish everybody." 
So here's a solution. For the drinker: Don't be a moron. I don't care how badly you want to lit in or be cool. Anyone trying to get you to stick a funnel in your mouth to force-fend you alcohol is an idiot. If you follow thnm, then you'rn twice the idiot. ldioL-; don't get to pass on their genes, and you'll generally find that a drink or two will work just line, leaving you with a much dnaror head and many fewer questions the next morning. 
For the authorities: Leave me alone. 
This column originally appeared on Apr. 4 in the Kansas Stale Collegian, the daily publication at Kansas State llnil,ersity. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o.fThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE

page 14 
Thursday, April 7, 2005 
CONCERT REVIEW 
In Chicago
Bob Dylan shines • 
By JULIE BENDER Scene Music Critic 
"The poet laureate of' rock 'n' roll. The voice of the promise of the '60s counter­culture. The guy who forced folk into bed with rock, who donned makeup in the '70s and disappeared into a haze of substance abuse, who emerged to 'lind .Jesus,' who was written off as a has­been by the end of the '80s, and who suddenly shifted gears and released some of the strongest music of his career beginning in the late '90s." 
Ladies and gentlemen, please wel­come Columbia recording artist Bob Dylan. 
With these words, pop music critic Jeff Miers summed up the unpredictable life of Bob Dylan in a feature story that appeared in The Buffalo News in August 2002. Apparently, Bob Dylan liked this quick summation of his life so much, he now uses it as his introduction at every concert he performs -and he certainly performs. 
Embarking on what has become known as his "Never-Ending Tour" in 1988, Dylan has played a constant stream of shows on and off throughout the world. This past week Dylan and his six-piece entourage added five more dates to the Never-Ending Tour, stop­ping in Chicago at the Auditorium Ballroom Sunday night. 
Though Dylan will be 64 this May, he never seems to tire of his life on the road, and this is a blessing for his devot­ed fans in Chicago who attended Sunday ni'ght's concert. 
Anticipation was high after the open­ing acts, Amos Lee and Merle Haggard, but when Dylan finally took the stage, he left no one disappointed. He kicked things into high gear immediately with an electrified version of "Drifter's Escape," from his 1967 album "John Wesley Harding," and then settled into the haunting "Senor" from Street Legal. Both songs have appeared in set lists regularly on this leg· of the tour. The songs created an appropriate introduc­tion to what the rest of the night veld in store. 
Dylan remained fixed behind his elec­tric piano for most of the evening, allow­ing his band -supplied with a fiddle and a pedal steel guitar -to shine musically. Dressed in all black with his signature (as of late) black cowboy hat, Dylan spurred on the show with periodic harmonica solos that rang with clarity throughout the ballroom. 
The most endearing quality of the per­formance was Dylan's voice. Often ridiculed for his lack of vocal expertise, in recent years, Dylan has changed his voice yet again, differentiating its sound from that on former recordings. On Sunday. he almost seemed to hiss and growl into his microphone as he maneu­vered his gravelly voice through the words he has made so famous. What the vocals lacked in beauty and finesse, they made up for in passion and charm. 
Perhaps thl~ best monient of the night 
·was when Dylan slowed things down with a poignant rendition of "Don't Think Twice, It's Alright." A folk dassic he penned in 1963, "Don't Think Twice" has a startling beauty with its sweet melody and bitter-tinged lyrics. On Sunday night, the band gave this nor­mally sparse song a full instrumental backing, which -combined with Dylan's harmonica -left the audience in silent awfl. 
For the remainder of the show, Dylan coursed through various components of his repertoire, including a raucous ver­sion of "Highway 61 Revisited," the love­ly "Shooting Star" and his protest-era classic, "A Hard Rain's A Gonna Fall." 
As the concert came to its close, Dylan left the stage without a word only to return minutes later to deliver his encore. Delighting fans of his 1960s songs, Dylan nudged into a gentle ren­dition of "I Shall Be Released." The song found a new meaning as Dylan's vocals hummed an aged wisdom: "I see my light come shining, from the west down to the east I Any day now, any day now, I shall be released." 
Ending the night in true rock 'n' roll fashion was a song off the same album as the opener -"All Along the Watchtower." Although originally an acoustic number, Dylan took elements from Jimi Hendrix's electric version of the song and sent charged vibes through his haunting lyrics. Turning from growl to howl by the ending chord, Dylan left 


Photo courtesy of mtv.com 

Despite being 63 years old, Bob Dylan continues to entertain fans with his "Never-Ending Tour." 
the stage in Chicago to a standing ova­tion as though this were his last per­formance on a farewell tour. 
Of course, with show dates lined up long into the future, fans know that for­tunately, there is no end in sight for the original Song and Dance Man on his "Never-Ending Tour." 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Nanook's naivete a sincere delight 
By MATTHEW SOLARSKI Scene Music Critic 
At the imaginary "37th Annual Concept Album Awards Ceremony in the Sky" (affectionately known as "The Tommies"), Nanook of the North's "The Tiiby Tapes" would have glaciered over the competition and emerged with more awards -bronzed miniature pinball machines, naturally -than there are Inuit words for snow. The Swedish act would have garnered "most whimsical concept," "most far­fetched concept," "most ridiculous concept that actually kinda works somehow," and, most notably, "the Honorary Bono Award for Unabashed Idealism" for the endearingly naive track "Israel and Palestine -a Solution." 
As far as concept records go, Nanook's resides in a class all its own. Invoking the title character of Robert Flaherty's celebrated 1922 quasi-docu­mentary "Nanook of the North," multi­instrumentalists Mattias Olsson and Olle Soderstrom weave a loose narra­tive across 12 tracks that takes Nanook from the Canadian Arctic to the sterile Stockholm suburb Tiiby. Along the way, Nanook joins a band, fights a dragon, outdoes the Camp David Accords, duets with several of Sweden's finest female vocalists of the 1980s and debates the verity of love in postmodern suburbia. Bizarre? Certainly. Ridiculous? Perhaps. Entirely unique and oddly enchanting? 


Quite. 
Nanook excels on the songcraft front. However outlandish the subject matter, the songs on "The Tiiby Tapes" remain fun and accessible and abound in a certain wistful vitality. Olsson and Soderstrom utilize a smorgasbord of instruments, some of which are possi­bly made-up, including guitars, key­boards, accordions, theremin, orche­stron, optigan, omnichord, stylophone, and percussion. With such an impres­sive musical arsenal comes substantial risk of meandering, ennui-inducing arrangements or needless instrumen­tal flourishes, but Nanook showcases crisp refinement throughout, with a refreshing hint of lo-fi. 
What distinguishes Nanook and makes "The Tiiby Tapes" so richly affecting, however, is the vocal inter­play between Nanook and his coterie of female duet partners. Olsson and Soderstrom construct many of the lyri­cal passages in call-and-response fash­ion, carving rather telling roles for the male and female voices and creating some often fascinating dialogue. 
On "Karin Boye's Grave,'' vocalist Camela Leierth embodies the ghost of Karin. She and Nanook alternate, "We would have loved your style I I would have loved to be alive I ... I could have held your hands I you could have played in our band" and then harmo­nize, proclaiming, "we could have spread revolution through this land." Despite an upbeat arrangement, the 

conditional perfect tense lends this track an air of melancholy, along the lines of Hemingway's famous "isn't it pretty to think so?" 
Also fabulous is "St. George and the Dragon," where Irma Schultz plays the misunderstood mythical beast to Nanook's brazenly self-righteous St. George. "So you think I'm just the vii-. !age moron?" the latter taunts, "we'll ponder that when you go down." The song's closing exchange reveals Nanook may not be so naive after all -Nanook begins, with Schultz responding, ''I'm bound to be a hero I but I am unarmed I easier for me then I but I'm just a girl I wen: I will tell nothing of that to the world." 
Nanook of the North's many talents culminate and coalesce on "Forget it Jenny, Love is Just a Privilege for the Rich,'' the album's final track. Here, Nanook becomes the jaded postmodern lover who rationalizes the futility of love in sublimely witty fashion: "love is just a privilege for the rich, you see I cause love requires time I and time is money." Vocalist Malin Olofsson retorts, "No! Love is universal to humanity I it gets to you no matt'er of economy." "Forget it" climaxes in a chorus of Ia Ia Ia's -a fittingly ambiguous conclusion to a record that succeeds on so many contradictory lev­els. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE

Thursday, April?, 2005 
page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
'Everything's OK' with AI Green 
1\y 1\ECCA SAUNDERS Assisranr Scent• Editor 
AI c;rePn has finally returrwd. 
Although tlw Hnverend AI Creon has not bonn in tlw businnss of real soul musk sinc1~ tho mid-70s, he has finally rntunwd to full form in his nnwnst album. "1\vnrything's OK." Tho latest album is produ1~ed by Willie Mitchell, tho producer Croon workod with in tho nal'ly 70s wlwn lw namnd his tilln as -a1~cording to many listnnnrs -the first roal soul artist. The two worknd togotlwr on a 2003 album eallod "I Can't Stop," but many critics felt tho album was weighed down by Grnnn's dnsirn to hold onto the spiritual and gospel nlnments in its music. "1\vmything's OK" suffers from no such ailrrwnl. c;renn has officially risen from the depths of gospel musie and is soulfully singing at the hnight of his talent. 
Green is a man with a rich and inter­esting history. Arter rising to fame in th1~ oarly 1970s with his soul hits, Gn~nn's earner took a sovnre swnrve at tho height of his fame in 1974. Mary Woodson, one of Groen's ox-girlfriends broke into his homo and poured boil­ing grits on (;reon while he was bathing, causing severo buns on his baek, stomaeh and arms before shoot­ing herself. This ineidnnt was inter­protect by Green as a sign from God that he should go into ministry. Thus hn bought a church, bncame a pastor and, although he released other albums during that time period, never bncame as popular as he once was. 
"Everything's OK" is a reminder of what AI Green was and what he still is. 


Green's voice does not seem to have aged a day with his falsetto still pierc­ing the beats of many of the songs. The album makes one feel like he has stepped back into the best part of 70s and it is hard to do anything but enjoy it. 
While the title track is probably the single best song on "Everything's OK," there are many other high points on this generally solid album. There is not a bad song on "Everything's OK," but there are some better ones, such as, "Build Me Up" and the new renditions of the past hits "Perfect to Me," "You Are So Beautiful" and "Real Love." Green transforms the over-popularized song "You Are So Beautiful" into the best and most passionately believable version ever sung. With a good mix of upbeat and deeply soulful songs, "Everything's OK" makes for an album that one can simply listen to again and again. 


There is no q uostion that "Everything's OK" in the musical world of the Heverend AI Green -everything is terrific. Although tho album is a bit stacked with the best songs on the first half of the track list, the entire album reveals the Groen that fans and those who do not know that they are fans yet have waited more than 30 years for. Thank the Lord -tho Heverond is back. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
SINGLES RouNDUP 
Aberdeen's heartfelt pop never cloys 
By MATTHEW SOLARKSI Scent• Musir Critic 
Few worthwhile romances begin in whirlwind. Horneo-and-Juliet fashion. Usually, a chance encounter will fostnr a sublln liking, which over time may evolve into a mutual allinity, which in those few ran~ and wonderful cases, blossoms into f'ull-flmlg11d amoro. When love works. it is bneause the bnloved in quostion gradu­ally grow upon one another where other suitors have dazzlod for a brief time and swiftly lizzll~d. Thn songs on Abordnen's nnw single operate in very much tho samn manner as tho love that works. 
Whornas most pop has the tendency to grate, achieving optimal potency around the fourth or fifth listen and careening downhill forever thereafter, Aberdeen's brand of pop makes a dramatically dif­ferent ascent. The three songs on "Florida" may strike the listener as unexceptional at first-and this is good, as successive listens will reveal the songs' nuances and nndearing qualities that the casual pop aficionado may have missed. 

"Florida" opens with the title track, a sophisticated number featuring the vocals of John (Aberdeen's press materi­als expressly omit surnames), that culmi­nates with an exalted "don't fall in love I don't ever break my heart." The second song, "Late Bloomer," linds John paired with primary Aberdeen vocalist Beth. The third and perhaps finest track draws lyrical inspiration from Haruki Murakami's "Norwegian Wood" and fea­tures Beth on vocals once again. She asks, "Did it snow the day she left? I Cherry blossoms caught the blood that foil." Lyrics like these haunt the listener long after the music has faded into obliv­ion, retaining the same understated pull as that lover who becomes something more. 
Longtime Aberdeen fans may be dis­mayed somewhat by the relative lack of jangle on this release, as the combo sound increasingly like brother band Tn~mbling Blue Stars here, but the wist­fully romantic essence of' Aberdeen remains quite intact. 
B-sldes, guests redeem Esthero's tardy tirade 
Canadian chanteuse Esthero has an odd history of tardiness. Her debut, 1999's hypnotie "Broath From Another", arrived with a whisper several years after trip-hop had faded from the main­stream music consciousness. While an uneven effort overall, "Breath" boasted a handful of exceptional tracks, includ­ing the brass-tinged "That Girl" and the neo-murder ballad "Heaven Sent." The latter saw an iota of MTV airplay thanks in large part to its haunting video inspired by Luis Bufiuel and Salvador Dali's avant-garde milestone "Un Chien Andalou." 
Fast-forward to late 2004, and Esthero has resurfaced at long last to deliver, or all things, a hackneyed diatribe against the sorry state of the music industry. On "We H in Need of' a Musical Hevolution" the lady prattles, ''I'm so sick and tired of the !bad music] on the radio I MTV they only play the same thing I no matter where I go I see Ashanti in the video I I want something more." Her plea is indeed valid, but such quality-mongering reached its peak during the same late 1990s that nearly swallowed Esthero for good. And besides, the state of music production has never been better. Our chanteuse should curb her frustration and invest in an iPod. 
Graciously, the other five songs on this 

We R in Need of a Musical Revolution! 
Esthero 
Warner Brothers 

comeback EP strike a morn consonant chord. Esthero puts herself' in good eom­pany, collaborating with Soan Lnnnon on the bouncy piano-eenternd romp "Every Day Is A Holiday (With You)," and with the mighty Cee-Lo Green on the H&B-fla­vornd "Gone." The trun payoiT, howevnr, comes iri the form of "Arnbnr and Tiger's Eye," the EP's dosing track, and a mes­merizing, string-laden midnight dril'tnr. Esthoro's voien. a rich and sultry high alto, manages to transcend anything it says, and the top-notch production rounds out an overall pleasurable pack­age. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 
ongs 1984-2003 4) MANDA AND THE MARBLES-Angels with Dirty Faces 5) LCD SOUNDSYSTEM-LCD Soundsystem 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 7, 2005 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 


ChiSox rally, edge Indians behind 4-run 9th 
Konerko, Dye both homer as White Sox win second straight 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Bob Wickman was consistent: Pretty much everything he threw turned into a hit. 
Paul Konerko and Jermaine Dye hit consecutive home runs off Wickman as the Chicago White Sox rallied with four runs in the ninth inning Wednesday to beat the Cleveland Indians 4-3. 
"He just didn't have it today," Cleveland manager Eric Wedge said. "The ball was up a little bit and a couple of good hitters got on them." 
Kevin Millwood pitched six scoreless innings in his debut for the Indians but was done in by Wickman {0-1 ), who inherit­ed a 3-0 lead from Arthur Rhodes and was trying to com­plete a five-hit shutout. Wickman allowed hits to his first four batters over a span of just eight pitches, then made an error. 
Wickman was the Indians' most reliable reliever last year in his second stint as their clos­er. l-Ie had saved 12 in a row stretching to last season. 
"I throw strikes and today, 
obviously,  it  hurt  me,"  
Wickman said.  
Carl Everett took a  strike,  

then singled, and Konerko homered to left on a 1-0 pitch. After swinging and missing the next pitch, Dye homered to left­center to tie it. 
"In that situation his job is to come. after me and throw a strike, make me swing the bat," Konerko said. ''I'm not trying to hit a home run. I'm just trying to get a base hit and keep the rally going." 
Aaron Rowand took a ball, then doubled, and A.J. Pierzynski was intentionally walked. 
Pinch-hitter Willie Harris' bunt was misplayed by Wickman for an error that loaded the bases, and Juan Uribe flied to right as Rowand tagged up and scored from third to win the game on the sacrifice fly. 
Chicago had 46 comeback wins last year, including four after trailing in the ninth inning. 
"We've got a group of guys just like last year," Harris said. "We're not going to roll over." 
Damaso Marte (1-0) got the last two outs in the top of the ninth for the win. 
"Winning a game like this where we hadn't swung real well in two days, I think it got the guys pumped up," Chicago 

CLASSIFIEDS 
manager Ozzie Guillen said. "I bet they can't wait for tomor­row to start." 
Signed to a $7 million, one­year contract during the off­season, Millwood allowed four hits, struck out one and walked two as his fastball reached 94 mph. He was trying for his 99th career win, his first in the American League. 
"Nothing was working a lot," Millwood said. "I didn't locate very well at all. It just seemed like I was able to make a pitch when I needed to, and that kind of got me through it." 
Last year, he went 9-6 with a 
4.85 ERA for Philadelphia, and the condition of his elbow was a concern to the Indians, who put special clauses in his con­tract to reduce their risk. 
Freddy Garcia, acquired by Chicago from Seattle last sea­son, gave up two runs and five hits in six innings, struck out six and walked three. He threw 109 pitches. 
Cleveland went ahead in the second when Grady Sizemore singled and scored on a Ronnie Belliard double. Garcia walked Victor Martinez in the third, and he took third on Ben Broussard's double and scored on a balk. 
Boston 7, NY Yankees 3 
NEW YOHK -The Boston Red Sox pulled off another comeback against Mariano Rivera, then turned their thoughts to Terry Francona. 
Playing without their ailing manager, the Hed Sox rallied for five runs off Rivera in the ninth inning -helped by Alex Rodriguez's costly error -and beat New York Wednesday to avoid a season-opening sweep. 
Francona was taken to a hos­pital in the morning with tight­ness in his chest. He was rest­ing there comfortably awaiting test results, the team said. Bench coach Brad Mills filled in for him. 
"We're just concerned about Tito and what's going on," Mills said. "They're a great bunch of guys, a great bunch of coaches, and they did a great job." 
Derek Jeter left the game after he was hit in the helmet by a pitch and was taken to a hospital for a precautionary CT scan. The results were normal and Jeter was expected to play Friday night against Baltimore, the Yankees said. 
The teams play three more games next week at Fenway Park beginning with Boston's home opener Monday, when the Red Sox will receive their World Series rings. 
"It was a huge win to get us on the board," Boston knuckle­bailer Tim Wakefield said. 
Rodriguez and Tino Martinez homered for the Yankees, who went ahead in the eighth with­out a hit. Gary Sheffield drove in the tiebreaking run with a sacrifice fly. 


Rivera entered in the ninth with a 3-2 lead for the second consecutive day and blew it again. He issued a leadoff walk to Bill Mueller before consecu­tive singles by Mark Bellhorn and Johnny Damon loaded the bases with none out. 
"Even though I walked Mueller, I made my pitches," Rivera said. "After that, I was getting groundballs that were 
going  through  the  holes.  
There's nothing you  can do  
against that. I'm fine."  

After Trot Nixon struck out, Manny Ramirez hit a routine grounder to Rodriguez at third. He should have been able to get at least a force play at the plate and possibly a game-end­ing double play, but he bobbled the ball and the tying run scored. 
"When I went down with two hands, I think I locked myself up," Rodriguez said. "I was going to go to second before the bobble. Then I knew I still had Bill Mueller at home, but then I bobbled it again." 
David Ortiz drove in the go­ahead run with a dribbler to the right side, and Edgar Renteria made it 6-3 with a two-run single. 

After walking Doug Mirabelli, Hivera was lifted -a rare sight. He walked off the mound to a healthy dose of boos, but he thought those must have come from Red Sox fans. 
"I think it's inexcusable if the boos were from Yankee fans because they wouldn't be crawling all over themselves to get into this ballpark if it weren't for him," New York manager Joe Torre said. 
Pitching coach Mel Stottlemyre had a similar reac­tion. 
"I was very surprised by that. Everything he's done here and in this ballpark, I was shocked. But that's New York," Stottlemyre said. 
The final run scored on Felix Hodriguez's wild pitch. 
Rivera (1-1) allowed five runs -one earned -and three walks in two-thirds of an inning. He also gave up three hits and threw 38 pitches. 
"I don't want to say he lost his cool, but he definitely lost his command," Stottlemyre said. 
The All-Star closer has blown his last four save chances against the Hed Sox, including two in the 2004 playoffs, and six opportunities in all against Boston since the start of last season. 
lie yielded Jason Varitek's tying homer in the ninth on Tuesday, but Jeter bailed out Rivera with a game-winning homer in the bottom half. 
"Yesterday's game had noth­ing to do with today," Rivera said. 
Mike Timlin (1-0) got two outs for the win. His first pitch hit Jeter in the left shoulder and then deflected off his ear flap, knocking Jeter's helmet off and sending him sprawling to the dirt. 
He remained in the game to run the bases, but was replaced at shortstop by Rey Sanchez in the ninth. 
"He heard some ringing in his ears. He felt a little woozy," Torre said. "Timlin wasn't try­ing to hit him. He was just try­ing to rush a little, and his ball was all over the place." 
The Red Sox got a strong out­ing from Wakefield, who allowed only three hitsin 6 2-3 
innings  - including  solo  
homers  by  Rodriguez  and  
Martinez.  

Making his first start of the year, Mike Mussina gave up nine hits but worked out of trouble. Helped by three dou­ble plays, he limited the Red Sox to two runs in six innings. Kevin Millar's two-run single gave Boston the lead in the fourth. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FoR SALE 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm,2 bath. For details fimbel.1 @ nd.edu or 57 4·261-0900. 
2000 Tracker. 26,000 miles. $5200. 634-4422. 
For Sale: Luggage Carrier Sears largest; only used twice. $150. Call 272-5763 to see. 
FOR RENT 
Clean homes close to NO. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes (574}250-7653. 
2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 532·1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH+ DEP. STAFF AND FACULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876-3537. 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms, close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 
3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417 Napoleon (off NO Ave.) 2 min. from NO. $1100/mo. 2 roommates/1 family. Call 299-9428. 
www.andersonNDrentals.com 
1-yr sublet 1 bdrm. 10 min. to NO. $500/mo. Email: ngreenbe@nd.edu 
Nice homes close to ND.Great area. All amenities. 19237 Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. Cripe 4bdrm; 222 E.Willow 3bdrm. 2773097 
Extra large 3 bdrm 1st floor apt. 1 0 mins. from NO. Great quiet area. 3 students @$450/mo. All utilities included. 574.707.2960 

Sub lease our house this summer! Clean, newer 5·bedroom house for rent this summer. VERY close to campus on Juniper and partially furnished. Contact Nell at nryan7@nd.edu. 
Large 5bdrm, 3bth house for summer sublet. Juniper Rd. Very close to NO. Will rent rooms individually. 2-car garage, washer/dryer, deck. Email: Ghealey@nd.edu 
STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER MONTH All utilities, ADT security, phone/cable/DSL, WID, Lawn service. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.OS/06. Call 315-3215 
And you can put it on the board ... yes!!! . 
Paulie, Jermaine, A-row and the guys get it done ... hell of a comeback 
"I can thrust really good :P" JOT 

Thursday, April 7 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB -NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Brewers thump Pirates for second straight day 

AP 

The Brewers' Lyle Overbay, left, is tagged out by Pirates catch­er Benito Santiago In Milwaukee's 10-2 victory Tuesday. 

SO FRESH IT'S LIKE IT'S FROM 



54570 N. IRONWOOD DR• ..., 574.277.8500 






lOVf 
THE JIMMY 
\\f4WIY JOif~".r· 
~ 
JJ1963 
o:oat.D•a ouu••ic• 
IJaMty I.&MD'WlC tutU IIJ¥liUU'j lhiUIU '" 411 UUH mmt• 
JIMMY JOHNS 
.COM 
Righifielder Carlos 
Lee homers, drives in four runs in victory 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGII -Brewers manager Ned Yost insisted all spring his offense is much improved, especially with Carlos Lee batting cleanup. Yost has some believers now, many in his o.wn clubhouse. 
Lee homered and drove in four runs in his first big game since an offseason tradn and Doug Davis pitched eiTnctively over six innings in the Brewers' seeond rout of' the Pirates in as many games, a 10-2 decision Wednesday. 
"So far, so good," Lee said after Milwaukee outscored Pittsburgh 19-4 in the two­game series. "We're doing a good job with defense, pitch­ing and we're getting some key hits, big base hits, and that's the way we have to play." 
The Brewers dealt popular leadoff hitter Scott Podsednik and reliever Luis Vizcaino to the White Sox for Lee in a deal that wasn't popular with some Brewers fans, but it probably looks a lot better to them now. 
"That's why we got him, that's why he's in middle of lineup," Davis said. "(As a pitcher), you can't lay one in there and expect him to get himself out. You take a look at our lineup, and it's totally dif­ferent." 
Lee hit a two-run double off Kip Wells (0-1) in a four-run first that had some of the 12,077 fans booing even before Pittsburgh batted, then hit a solo homer leading ol'f the fifth. Lee also had a run­scoring grounder in the sixth against reliever John Grabow. 
If the Brewers were looking for a positive start al'ter drop­ping 94 games during a 12th 
consecutive losing season  in  
2004, they got it in  one  of  
their least-favorite eities.  

They went 6-12 against the Pirates last year and, going into the series, wore 11-26 in Pittsburgh since PNC Park opened in 2001. 
They hadn't won back-to­back there sinee April 8-9, 2003, a span of 16 games, before following up Monday's 9-2 vietory with an even more one-sided win. 
"It's big to eome in here and win a couple of' games from those guys," said Junior Spivey, who had three extra­base hits after striking out four times Monday. "They have good pitchers, a good staff and a young team. It was good to get going against this team." 
The Pirates are 0-2 for the first time since 2000 and now seem as eager to get out of Pittsburgh as they were to get there following seven weeks of spring training. 
They start a seven-game trip Thlll·sday in San Diego. 
"It's still only two games, and two games at the begin­ning don't count any more than two games at the end," Matt Lawton said. "When it starts to get deeper is when you start to press." 
Manager Lloyd McClendon, who hoped a good start would elevate the confidence of his relatively young team, said, "You always want to play well here. But it's only two games, it's not tlw end of the world." 

Wells, nrratie during spring training, constantly lel't his pitches over the plate as five of' the first seven Brewers bat­ters nHtehnd base. 
Spivey doubled and Lyle Overbay walked ahead of Lee's double in the first, and Hussoll Branyan followed threo batters later with a two­run double. Spivey added a solo homer in the fourth and a double in the sixth. 
"To givn them a 4-0 lead right out of the gatn, I didn't give us much of' a chance," Wells said. 
Wells lastnd five innings, giving up six hits and six runs while walking five. 
"lie wa~n't very good," McClendon said. "lie got his pitches up and it was not a good outing." 
The left-handed hitting Branyan is nxpeded to get the majority of starts at third base, but didn't start the opener so the right-handed hitting Jeff Cirillo eould faen Pirates left-hander Oliver Perez. Cirillo responded with a double and homnr. 
Davis was much more ef'f'ec­tive than Wells, allowing two hits over five shutout innings ahead of Tike Hedman's two­run homer in the sixth. Davis gave up four hits and two runs and struck out five over six. 
Likn opening-day starter Ben Sheets, Davis is expected to start throe timns in the Brnwers' f'irst 10 games because the team has thriHl off-days during the f'irst two weeks of the season. 

MEDICINE AND SCIENCE 
CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
A pamd ofalumni ana alumnae reflect on t!Je integraa'on oj'j'ait!J an a.Joc.ial c.onc.ern.1 inlD lifo 6 e:yona JVotn flame. 
Sunday, Aprill0 4:00-5:30pm Center for Social Concerns Pizza vvill be served 
Spea/cerJ 

Timothy Kerr, !'viS '97 Academic Advisor and Lecturer Purdue University 
Renee Salvino, IVID '79 P ed iatrician Northwest Community Health Care, Chicago 
Brandon Zabukovic, IVID '97 Chief Resid en t, ll!le m o rial Hospital F ll!lRP Incoming ll!ledica.l Director, 
r~~ 

South Bend Center for the Homeless Central Clinic 
-;Ill T llli f' ~ 1i 
§Os;i(6L CONCI!CRNa 
•. 

I 
I 
I 
I 
• I 




OUND THE NATION 


around the dial 
MLB Cleveland at Chicago, 1 :05 p.m., Comcast Oakland at Baltimore, 6:05 p.m., ESPN 
GOLF The Masters, first round, 3:00p.m., USA 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Chest pains forced Terry Francona into a hospital Wednesday. How soon the Boston manager returns to his team remains to be seen. 
Francona was taken by ambulance to New York Weill-Cornel! Medical Center in Manhattan after experiencing chest tight­ness in the morning. He underwent a variety of tests and then listened on the radio as the Red Sox rallied for a 7-3 victory over the Yankees, their first win of the season. 
Red Sox spokesman Glenn Geffner said 
Francona, who turns 46 on April 22, was scheduled to be transferred Wednesday night to Boston, where he will remain under the supervision of team doctor Thomas Gill. 
The Red Sox, meanwhile, were off to Toronto to open a series against the Blue Jays on Friday. 
"Tito has meant so much to this whole team," center fielder Johnny Damon said. "He's the guy that would go to battle for you." 
The Red Sox would not specify what Francona was tested for or any results. 
General manager Theo Epstein informed the team of Francona's situation in a very brief meeting after the second Red Sox bus arrived at Yankee Stadium around 10:30 a.m. He then went to the hospital and spent the game with Francona. 

Francona came to Boston with a reputation for being too nice and letting players take advantage of him. But the Red Sox responded to his easygoing personality and gelled into a raucous bunch that brought Boston its first World Series title in 86 years. 
With Francona in the hospital, the Red Sox band-· ed together in the collegial manner that made them champions. 
"I almost needed a bed next to Tito," acting man­ager Brad Mills said jok­ingly of the tense game. "[The win] was a lot to do with the guys focused on what they have to accom­plish." 
Damon said during the game players asked the trainers, including Jim Rowe, who accompanied the manager and returned to the ballpark, about Francona but they "didn't give us any until after the game." 
The Red Sox were upbeat after their ninth-inning comeback, yet there was little of the boisterous rev­elry common from the team that dubbed them­selves Idiots during the playoffs last season. 
IN BRIEF 
Myskina advances, Molik 
upset at Bausch & Lomb 
AMELIA ISLAND, Fla. -Anastasia Myskina survived a three-set match with unseeded Shahar Pner of Israel to advance to the round of 16 Wednesday at the Bausch & Lomb Championships. 
While the third-seeded Myskina advanced, Virginia Razzano posted the tournament's first surprise, upsetting No. 9 ranked Alicia Molik, 6-4, 6-4. 
Myskina, ranked No. 6 in the world, defeated Peer, ranked 112, 6-2, 3-6, 6-3. 
Serena Williams played Dally Randriantefy later Wednesday. _ 
Myskina rolled through the first set in 20 minutes, holding her service at love in her first three serves and breaking Peer's serve at love in the eighth game. 
The second set was nothing like the first. Peer broke Myskina in the first and third games and held her own service twice to jump out to a 4-0 lead en route to a win. 

"I played really well that first set, but then I got a little bored," Myskina said. Baylor welcomes home national champions 
WACO -The crowd was already in a frenzy, having been introduced to ali but one of the Baylor players. Then senior Steffanie Blackmon emerged from behind a curtain hoist­ing the NCAA championship trophy. 
Flashbulbs lit up the arena Wednesday, and more than 7,000 fans screamed even louder in appre­ciation of the prize a well-deserved shining moment for the university and the town. 
"This is a women's basketball championship," coach Kim Mulkey­Robertson said. "But it's bigger than that. It is a Baylor national champi­onship." 
The Lady Bears (33-3) won their first national title with an 84-62 win over Michigan State on Monday night. 
Pirates minor leaguers fail 
drug tests 
PITTSBURGH -Three Pittsburgh Pirates minor leaguers were sus­pended Wednesday for failing drug tests last year, with Triple-A pitcher Brian Mallette drawing a 30-game penalty as a two-time offender. 
Outfielder Jon Nunnally, also with Pittsburgh's Indianapolis farm team, was given a 15-game suspension as a first offender, as was infielder Tom Evans, who plays for Double-A Altoona. 
Mallette and Nunnally were with other organizations when the tests were conducted before signing minor league contracts with Pittsburgh. Both attended the Pirates' spring training camp as non-roster players but did not make the opening-day roster. 
Evans is the only Pirates farmhand to date to fail a drug test, though results of tests conducted this year among Florida-based spring training teams have not been released. 

Thursday, April 7, 2005 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Tampa Bay scores 6 in 8th, tops Toronto, 8-5 -> 
than power to generate offense. gles and a double as Hernandez

Cantu delivers 3-run 
Crawford led off the winning was backed with 15 hits. 

homer to finish off big rally with a triple that seemed to "After the third inning, he was energize his teammates. in command," Kansas City man­rally against Blue Jays "That's the kind of team we ager Tony Pena said. "He threw have," Piniella said. "But there's great. He had a great changeup,
Associated Press 
no substitute for a three-run slider and curve." ST. PETEHSBUHG, Fla. -Lou homer. You saw that today." Jeremy Affeldt, Kansas City'sPiniella could smile for a change. Tampa Bay avoided its first 0-third pitcher, completed the six­
Aftnr watching his team 3 start with a roster that hitter, giving up an RBI triple to squander opportunity after includes 16 players who were Dmitri Young in the ninth. opportunity through most of a not here on opening day last Mike Maroth (0-1) allowed five 
three-game series against the year. Another fresh face could be runs and 11 hits in 3 2-3 Toronto Blue Jays, the Tampa on the way after backup catcher innings. Bay manager savored a six-run, Charles Johnson requested a Kansas City, coming ofT an 11­eighth inning that carried the leave of absence. 2 loss Monday, got started quick­De vi I Hays to an 8-5 victory Johnson, a former All-Star ly in the first when singles byWednesday. who signed a one-year contract David DeJesus and Graffanino 
"That's a thing of beauty for Monday. was granted permission put runners at the corners. us," l'iniella said. "It'll sure to leave the team. If he does not A pitch appeared to hit Mike make our off day (Thursday) a return Friday, he will be placed Sweeney and bounce toward the little better." on a restricted list without pay. Royals dugout on the first-base 
Jorge Cantu capped the rally "I am going to leave the club side. Catcher Ivan Rodriguez with a three-run homer off for personal reasons," Johnson didn't give chase at first, but .I a son Speier. That came after said in a statement released by plate umpire Larry Vanover the Devil Hays overcame a 5-2 the team. ''I'm going to return ruled Sweeney wasn't hit. deficit on Aubrey I luffs two-run home to Miami and hopefully DeJesus scored and Graffanino double ofT Scott Schoeneweis (0-join the club as soon as possi­moved to third on what was 
l) unci Chris Singleton's HBI sin­ble." ruled a wild pitch. gle ofT Speier. Hodriguez and Detroit manag­
The Blue Jays' bullpen wasted Kansas City 7, Detroit 2 er Alan Trammell argued to no a strong performance by starter DETHOIT -After a layoff of avail. After the game, Sweeney Josh Towers, who left with a 3-1 more than a year, Hunelvys acknowledged he had been hit. lead after allowing four hits, Hernandez was eager to prove ''I'm an honest man," he said. striking out six and walking his recovery from elbow surgery "The pitch hit me on the foot." none in six innings. Danys Baez is complete. Sweeney followed with a bro­(1-0) pitched 1 2-3 innings for "I waited a long time for this ken-bat single for a 2-0 lead. the win. moment." he said Wednesday "He has pitched well against 
I'm very, very happy we won after leading the Kansas City us the last couple times we've two out of three. But it's 5-2 in Hoyals over the Detroit Tigers 7-faced him, so getting a couple of the eighth, and I was thinking 2. runs was huge," Sweeney said. corner. DeJesus and Sweeney sweep," Toronto catcher Gregg Hernandez (1-0) had not "Once he gets into a groove, he followed with RBI singles. Eli Zaun said. "''m not leaving the pitched since Aug. 16, 2003. He can get a complete game with 85 Marrero added a sacrifice fly in clubhouse happy today." had elbow ligament replacement pitches, and we didn't want that the seventh, and Angel Berroa 
Tampa Bay went 2-for-13 with surgery that Sept. 5 and missed to happen today." homered in the eighth. runners in scoring position while all of last season. Maroth never got into a losing the first two games of the He gave up one run and five groove, allowing the first batter Minnesota 4, Seattle 1 series, and was 1-for-5 hits in seven innings against the in each of the four innings he SEATTLE -Carlos Silva Wednesday before busting loose Tigers, walked three and struck pitches to reach base. allowed one run in seven innings against Schoeneweis, who was out three for his first win since "I think it probably showed, and Matthew LeCroy hit a three­pitching for the third straight Aug. 10, 2003 at Tampa Bay. throwing a lot of balls, going run homer in the Minnesota day. "I was wondering what I might deep on hitters," he said. ''I'm a Twins' 4-1 victory over the 
The Devil Hays scored once in have," he said. "But you saw guy that likes to get them to put Seattle Mariners on Wednesday. the seventh off Jason Frasor today, Hernandez is back. I had it in play early in the count and I Silva. in his second full season when Toby I I all grounded into a good pitches. I was trying to hit wasn't able to do that today." as a starter, gave up nine hits ­double play with the bases the corners. I wasn't worried Detroit drew a crowd of including Bret Boone's solo loaded. Orlando Iludson's HBI about throwing hard. but about 14,168 to Comerica Park after homer leading off the second. triple gave Toronto a 4-2 lead in location." setting a ballpark record of The right-hander, known for his the nighth, and Eric Ilinske's llernandez threw 100 pitches, 44,105 at Monday's opener. efficiency and excellent control, run-scoring single made it 5-2. 61 for strikes. Omar Infante hit a sacrifice fly had no walks or strikeouts. 
Cantu homered for the second "lie located his fastball well, in the third, but Kansas City The 1\vins had a scare in the straight game, and Carl and threw his offspeed pitches made it 5-1 in the fourth. Matt eighth when first baseman Crawford had an inside-the-park for strikes," Detroit's Ron dell Stairs doubled and scored on Justin Morneau was hit in the homer ofT Towers for the Devil White said. Mark Teahen's first major league right temple by a pitch from left­Hays. who rely more on speed Tony Graffanino had three sin-hit, a triple into the right-field handed reliever Ron Villone, 

#9 Men's Lacrosse 
Free admission 
vs Denver 
.,. Noon .,.
for all even:ts!

"'-,·~ 4:00pm 
t-------------tLoftus Sports Center

Moose Krause Stadium 
*First 150 Fo.ns w•lr receive a
•&:~Jd Game 

lep.recnaun nesting dell! game shrrt sponsort.d by South Bend Orthopaedi<~­
•First 200 fat\S wi II rece.fore o g<J1d 
• 
SOftball 
vs Ball State 5:00pm Ivy Field 

-
-

though the batting helmet appeared to absorb most of the hit. 
Morneau dropped to the ground and 1\vins manager Ron Gardenhire immediately rushed out with an athletic trainer. Morneau stayed on his back for about one minute, with his head propped up by a rolled-up towel. He was helped to his feet and walked ofT on his own, then taken for a precautionary CT scan. There was no immediate word on the result. 
Silva escaped a bases-loaded jam in thP seventh, when the Twins turnt~d their third double play, thPn gave way to Juan Hincon . .lor Nathan pitched a perfect ninth for his first save as Minnesota won two games in the season-opening series. 
Seattle also had a player leave because of an injury, starter Bobby Madritsch. who went out in the fifth with a strained left shoulder. He pitched 4 1-3 innings, allowed three runs and four hits. struck out one and walked one. 
The lefty looked good early, retiring his first 10 batters. Then, Nick Punto got Minnesota's first hit with a one­out bunt single in the fourth, Morneau hit a two-out single to right, and LeCroy drove a 1-0 pitch an estimated 378 feet over the visitor's bullpen for a 3-1 lead. 
With one out in the fifth, 
Madril'ich flinched after throw­
ing a pitrh to Juan Castro. After 
a conference on the mound, 
Madritsrh was replaced by Hyan 
Franklin. The 1\vins took a 4-1 
lead in the eighth after Jacque 
Jones' one-out sacrifice with the 
bases loaded. 
Silva survived a jam in the 
seventh, after one-out singles by 
Boone, Raul Ibanez and Handy 
Winn. But he got Dan Wilson to 
ground out at third. where 
Michael Cuddyer stepped on the 
bag and tossed it to first for a 
double play. 
Boone, playing on his 36th 
birthday, put Seattle ahead 1-0 
in the second, sending a solo 
shot into the left-field bullpen. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 7, 2005 
M LB -NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Pettitte leads Astros to their first victory 
THE MASTERS 

Mickelson looks to repeat 
Tiger's still drawing crowds, but others demand attention 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. -A half­dozen grown men were walk­ing along the 11th fairway Wednesday morning when they scampered into the woods and huddled around a golf ball, gawking as though it were a meteorite that descended onto Augusta National. 
They kneeled over and held their cameras inches from the ball -a swoosh on the right side and "TIGER" print­ed on the top -and clicked away. Other fans came over and started passing the men their cameras for more pic­tures. 
And it was only a golf ball. 
The guy who hit the tee shot some 50 yards off line ­right of the trees, right of the gallery and into a small forest of Georgia pines -never showed up. A marshal even­tually broke up the crowd and heaved the ball to Woods' caddie. 
Tiger Woods is used to this kind of star treatment at Augusta National, where he shattered scoring records as a 21-year-old and already had three green jackets by the time he was 26. 
But he no longer is the main event. 
Phil Mickelson is the defending champion when the 69th Masters begins Thursday, and many believe he is primed to join Woods, 

Nick Faldo and Jack Nicklaus as the only back-to-back win­ners of a green jacket. 
His victory Monday in the BellSouth Classic was his third of the year. And his con­fidence soars even higher just driving down Magnolia Lane, walking upstairs to the cham­pions locker room, being on a golf course where a year ago he birdied five of the last seven holes to capture his first major. 
"Being able to come through when I needed to gives me a little of extra con­fidence," Mickelson said. 
Vijay Singh is No. 1 in the world, and has been for all but two weeks in March. And while his only victory this year came in the second week of the season, he is the only player who seems to be around the top of the leader­board no matter where he plays. 
"Vijay is the one that is playing the best at the moment," Sergio Garcia said. 
Ernie Els is seeking redemption at Augusta National. Retief Goosen is seeking recognition. 
Those two South Africans, along with Mickelson and Singh, all have won majors in the nearly three years since Woods last captured a covet­ed Grand Slam event. 
"If you look at guys who are at the top in the world rank­ing, and the guys who have won major championships, you know they can handle the heat," Woods said. "You know they're not going to make a mistake." 
He hasn't had this much 
competition since winning the first of his eight majors at Augusta National in 1997. 
On perhaps the most famous stage in golf, the lat­est battle begins to unfold Thursday with a Masters that is being billed more as a free­for-all than a heavyweight prize fight. 
And while top players are getting most of the attention, another familiar theme threatened to intervene. 
A line of violent thunder­storms began working its way toward Augusta National even as the undercard -the Par 3 Tournament -was being held Wednesday. 
Weather already has inter­rupted play in eight of 14 tournaments, and one fore­cast said the course could get as much as an inch of rain about the time the Masters gets under way. 
"See you Friday," Woods said jokingly as he left the course after a nine-hole prac­tice round, knowing that his 
1:33 p.m. starting time might be pushed back. 
Perhaps the adage this year will be the Masters doesn't start until the back nine Monday. 
If nothing else, rain figures to soften an Augusta National course that has been firm, fiery, fast and frightening, with players remarking they had never seen the greens this fast so early in the week. 
That could be an advantage for the longer hitters, although accuracy is under­rated at the Masters. And to see Woods send his tee shot on the 11th hole so far to the right only raises more ques­tions about his game. 

-
-
I I I I I• 
I I I I I 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Andy Pettitte felt better than he had in a long time, going all the way back to his final game with the New York Yankees almost 18 months ago. 
He pitched like it, too. 
Pettitte allowed only a solo ho.mer to Reggie Sanders in a strong six-inning season debut, and Mike Lamb's two­run triple in the bottom of the eighth sent the Houston Astros to a 4-1 win over the St. Louis Cardinals on Wednesday. 
"It was great to go back out there and not pitch with a lot of pain," Pettitte said. "I can't tell you how happy I am to go out there and not hurt. It makes you appreciate your health." 
Chad Qualls pitched two perfect innings and Brad Lidge got three outs for a save to help Houston break a three­game losing streak against the Cardinals, dating to Game 6 of the NL championship series last October. 
Coming off an elbow injury that ended his season last August, Pettitte proved that those painful days of 2004 might finally be behind the hurler. 
The last time Pettitte looked this good, he was wearing pinstripes and pitching in Game 6 of the 2003 World Series. 
Washington 7, 
Philadelphia 3 
PHILADELPHIA -A few players drank beers. Others quietly grooved to hip-hop music. Some simply showered and dressed. 
The Washington Nationals have their first win. They're still working on how to cele­brate. 
Brad Wilkerson hit for the cycle for the second time in his career and Jose Guillen hit a go-ahead, two-run homer in the eighth inning, leading the Nationals to a vic­tory over the Philadelphia Phillies on Wednesday night. 
It was Washington's second game since moving during the offseason after 36 years as the Montreal Expos. 
"It's a special day to get the first victory," Wilkerson said. 
Vinny Castilla was 4-for-5 with two doubles and one RBI for Washington, which hadn't celebrated a victory by a major league team since the expansion Senators left for Texas following the 1971 sea­son. 
The Nationals play their home opener at RFK Stadium on April 14 against Arizona. 
"It's nice to win your first game," Nationals manager Frank Robinson said. "It's a good feeling." 
Wilkerson was 4-for-4 with a walk and two RBis, com­pleting his cycle with a ground-rule double in the eighth against Aaron Fultz. 
Wilkerson homered off Brett Myers in the third, singled off Myers in the fifth and tripled against ~heal Cormier in the seventh. Wilkerson's first cycle was against Pittsburgh on June 24. 2003. 


THE NOTRE DAME SCl-tOlA MUS.ICORUM 
AND MEM6Elt.'i OF nu MtJSlC DH'ARTMfNT PRfS.H•H 
A_ MUSICAl COMMEMORATION OF THE LIFE OF POPE JOHN PAUL ll 
GREGORIAN CHANT 
ORGAN MUSIC MUSIC FOR UNACCOMPANIED VIOliN MUSIC FOR UNACCOMPANIED CELLO 
REYES ORGAN AND CHORAl. HAll 8:30P.M.. THURSDAY. APRH 7. 2005 
ADMISSION fRiif; TlCKI'TS AVAilAI.UJ: AT HU MAIUt P. Ot:&Mtltlt() CtNrt:il fOR tHE PUtWRMING ARtS &llX OfHCE 
DEBAIHOlO 
~MT$~: 
J..-.io~o-'lf'll."'loo4<1M ..... .n..Sl.<. "MA ...4..1olY.r.""'~~~-·t;~.>(""~~'l.~.s-.::t:;;;,~-./!&.>f,...'!~ .. ~-..Aoo..i-¥ ~ ,,/'-""" -..~-"""'~ "'" :,.. >~« ......-.. -..;'....w:.<N'~ ~'d'\'.+ ~'-»~lll.4/\' .,_. .C>t.'M ~NI.f~JI. ~ ...""""..,:.~~!.. 4;~-M4;M~..km ;...;w.).,..; ~~, ...lll<.-ll.--~t­~' .w~.,..~M:,,__~,w~~~h"'' "-.~-~-~ ~ ~
,....•..,'M_._ ~«~ 


Thursday, April 7, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

NBA 
Bulls outlast Magic, win in overtime 102-101 
with 11 points and 14 rebounds. about the results, though.

Chandler pulls down 
"But you stop up, relax and Iverson scored 48 points and 22 rebounds in win shoot it tho same way. tho 76nrs gained ground in the "Onee it wont down I fnlt good, race for tho final playoll' spot in Associated Pre'>• hut you have to play defense the Eastern Conferenen with a because Stnvin Francis has win over the Charlotte Bobcats 
OHLANI>O, Fla. The shown time and limn again that on Wndnnsday night. Orlando Magie arn running out he ean score the ball with 1.9 Iverson had 30 in the lirst half of limn to ma.kn a playofl"J.Htsh. seconds or whatever tho casn to help tlw Sixnrs (37 -37) take a 
Kirk llinrieh scored 25 points, maybe." 25-point load, which was sliced Tyson Chandler addnd 15 points all the way to one late in the and 22 rebounds and tho Indiana 98, Cleveland 77 fourth quartnr. Chirago Bulls lwat Orlando I02-INDIANAPOLIS -Heggie It was the second straight 
10 I on Wndrwsday night to dnal Miller and tho Indiana Pacers game tho Sixers let a huge load tlw Magil~'s postseason hopes a are already in postseason mode. slip away, blowing a 26-point serious blow. Miller scored 17 points and lead against Boston before hold­
Comhirwd with l'hiladnlphia's Stephen Jackson had 23 to lead ing on for a four-point win. win ovnr Charlotto, Orlando is 2 Indiana to its lil'th straight victo­Certainly, the eighth spot is 1/2 ganws out of tho Eastnrn ry over the slumping Cleveland Philly's to lose over the final C:onf'Prnnen's nighth and final Cavaliers on Wndnesday night. eight games. The Sixors have playoiT lwrth with sown games "We've taken tlw approach won six of 10 and arn 11-8 since remaining. Tlw Magie have lost that the playoiTs rnally started in Mareh 1 to build a game and a thr«H~ of four. and (;rant llill is late March for us," Miller said. half lead over New Jersey and a out. inddinitPiy with a sore lnrt "Hight now, we are probably 2 1/2 -game cushion on Orlando. shin. playing tho bnst basketball Chris Webber missnd his third 
"It may look bleak, hut J'vn wn've playml all year." straight game with a sprained snnn strang«11· things happnn," The Pacers hold the sixth play­loft shoulder. Orlando coach Chris .Jnnl said. off spot in the Eastern "Whnn Chris is not on the "But wn ~~an't knnp saying that." Confnrnnee, two games ahead of court, it puts way too much on 
llill. who has missed three the Cavaliers. who have lost nine Allen's shoulders," said Sixers straight ganws, urulnrwnnt a CT of 13. coach Jim O'Brien. scan Parlin.-W«~drwsday and the "We want to go in the playolls Kyln Korver linislwd with 11 tn<un hopPs to know tlw results with some momentum," Jackson points and Andre Iguodala had 
Thursday. said after hitting 8-of-16 field 11 rebounds for the Sixers. 
Orlando general manager goals. "Wn'n~ happy to be in the Clnveland's 98-77 loss to John· Woisbrod said tlw pain in playoffs•. but we want to win a Indiana on Wednesday night tlw shin isn't rnlated to llw anklo championship." pulled the Sixers to one game of woos that sidelined llill for most The game was never elosn the Cavaliers for the seventh of llw prnvious thrne seasons. aftnr tho Pacers held the spot. The Cavs play at of just being an emergency shooting touch of an everyday 
Tlw Bulls' victory camn on tho Cavaliers to 10 points in the see­Philadnlphia on Friday and are option." player. heels of a loss at Miami on ond quarter. Clnveland made 0-2 this year against the Sixnrs. Even after two seasons tognth­Signed as a frne agnnt to lwlp Tuesday, which snappfHI thni r just 3 of 22 shots in the quarter The Sixers arn 3 1/2 games nr, Wallaen is still impressing lill the scoring void left by the n i nn-ganw winning strnak. and 36 percent for the game. behind lirst-placn Boston in the coach Larry Brown. The All-Star injured Tim Dunc~an, Hobinson hit Chicago now has a one-gamn LeBron .lames seored 20 Atlantic Division. has now scored in double l'ig­three of four shots and scored lnad over Washington for fourth points on 9-for-18 shooting for ures in live straight games. seven points in his debut with the place al'tnr tho Wizards lost 105-Clove land. Detroit 105, Washington 93 "l-In was sensational tonight," Spurs, helping San Antonio to a IJ3 to Dotroil. James said frustration is AUBUHN HILLS, Mieh. -Ben Brown said. "He did every­win over tho Los Angdes Clippers 
After Bnn Gordon missnd a mounting for the Cavs, who fired Wallaee heeded his teammates' thing." on Wednesday night. runrwr on Chicago's linal pos­eoaeh Pau I Silas was fired on advice and took morn shots for Detroit has won four straight 'Tm really surprised he's got session, Antonio Davis rebound­March 21. himsnlf. and leads seeond-place Chieago his rhythm," San Antonio coach ed and was foulnd by Knlvin It paid off Wednesday night, by live games. Gregg Popovich said. "But hn's a Cato on the put-back try. Davis, Philadelphia 106, whnn Wallace scored 21 points It was Brown's 101st win as jump shooter ... You don't forgot shooting 74 pnrcent from the Charlotte 103 and had 18 rebounds to help the Pistons coach, brnaking Hick how to do that." linn this season, missnd tho lirst. PIIILADELPIIIA The Dntroit Pistons redueo their Carlisle's team record of 100 Manu Ginobili scored 12 of his tlum swishml tho seeond. Philadelphia 76ers would rather magic number for elinching the ovnr his lirst two seasons with 16 points in the sneond half and 
"AI'tnr missing tho first onn not rely so heavily on Allen Central Division title to four with Detroit. Brent Barry addnd four 3-point­you don't fenl good about the Iverson. a victory over the Washington The Wizards have lost three in nrs for tho Spurs, who are two sneond one," said Davis, finished Thny certainly can't complain Wizards on Wcdnnsday night. a row and had a three"game games bnhind Phoenix in tho rac~n 
Come Watch the 
ND/SlVIC Ballroom Invitational 
Sunday, April lOth South Dining Hall 
10:00 AlVl-7:00 PlVl 
Pree of Charge Stop By .Anytime 

Fall 2005 Course Offerings IRLL 10101 Jntnxiuction to Modern Irish I IRLL 10102lntroduction to Modern Irish II IRLL 20103 Intermediate Irish Language IRLL 20105 Introduction to Old Irish IRLL 30107 The Hidden Ireland: Issues in 18th .Cent. Irish Poetry IRLL 60303 Poetry and Politics in Early Modern Ireland 1541-1688 
for top seed in tho Western Conference. San Antonio and the Suns each have eight gamns 
n~maining. 
Tho Clippers got within 49-45 on a three-point play by Chris Wileox midway through tho third, but San Antonio made 10 of its final 11 shots, induding four 3­pointers, in the quartnr to cxtnnd its lead to 72-57 !wading into tho fourth. 
The Spurs pushed their load to 22 points early in the fourth beforn the teams went to their rnserves. 
Barry linished with 12 points on 4-for-5 shooting from beyond the are. Tony Parker had 11 points, and Bruen Bowen and Bcmo Udrih nach added 10. Sean Marks had 10 rebounds in 17 minutes. 
San Antonio wont without Duncan (right ankle sprain) for an eighth consecutive game, while Bobby Simmons (left leg bruise) and Chris Kaman (lower back strain) sat out for Los Angnles. 
Corny Maggette led the Clippnrs with 23 poinl<i on 6-for-16 shoot­ing, with only two of his basknL'i coming in tho second half. Elton Brand scored 13 and Wilcox I 0 for Los Angelos, which shot :{9 percent and committed 22 turnovers. 
"They outworked_ us, they out­shot us, they outrobounded us." 
Hobinson, who has av«~ragnd 21 points over 10 NBA soasons, said. 
"Everyone on the team has been telling me to shoot the ball more, so I figured they must know something," Wallace said. 'They've been doing a great job of getting me tho ball whore I can do something with it instead

Dept. of Irish Language & Literature Roinn Theanga 7 Litriocht na Gacilge 
road winning streak snapped. 
San Antonio 91, LA Clippers 82 
SAN ANTONIO -Playing for tho first time in more than a year, Glenn Robinson displayed the 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 7, 2005 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles set to challenge MIAA-leading Hope 
By KATE SERYAK Sport Writer 
On Thursday, the Belles will take on the flying Dutch of Hope College in one of their most important conliwence matches. 
Hope recently reached the .500 mark after a 9-0 shutout win over Olivet College on Tuesday and is curnmtly tied with Albion College atop the MIAA confer­ence at 3-0. 
"Jnsid1l of' our conference, this will be our first big challenge," Belles captain Miranda Mikulyuk said. "This match, how we play in it, will be a good indicator for the rest of the season. 
"It will also be a good challenge !'or our doubles [pairs]." Mikulyuk said. "TuPsday's match wasn't a good ehallenge for the doubles, but llope is almost stronger in doubles than they are in singles so this will be a good challenge." 
Captain Kristen Palombo echoed Mikulyuk's thoughts. 
"The doubles will be key to set­ting up the match tomorrow," Palombo said. "If we can go into the singles having won two out of the three doubles, I think we have a chance at winning the whole match. That would take the pressure ofT of the singles players -they would only have to win thren out of the six singles matches." 
This will be only the Belles' second conference match. Saint Mary's played Tri-State University on Tuesday and won with a 9-0 sweep, beginning their conference run at 1-0. 
Despite a strong start to the season, however, the Belles were not invited to the Midwestern Tournament in Wisconsin this year. 
"I think its kind of hard to be judged so early in the season," Mikulyuk said. "We've only played one conference match, whereas Hope and Albion have played three. I don't know what the criteria are to get invited to that mat<:h. I'm not sure its clear to anyone." 
The Belles, however, aren't fazed. Instead, they are looking forward to tomorrow's match. 
"We've beaten Hope in the past few years, but they have always been dose matches," Palombo said. "They always come ready to play, and it will be a tough match. llope had a really good win against Calvin last week, so !Hope is] definitely strong this year." 
As of yet, it has not been deter­mined where the match will be held. If it rains before 11 a.m., the match will be held in Hope's indoor facilities. If not, the match will be played at St. Mary's as originally scheduled. 
"Tennis is mostly mental, and right now we don't even know where we are playing this match," Palombo said. "It will be tough if we have to sit in a van for two hours beeause your legs get cramped and it's hard to stay focused. 
"Also, ifwe don't play at home, we won't have as many fans, and Hope has the loudest and most obnoxious fans. I hope it doesn't rain tomorrow," Palombo said. 
Contact Kate Seryak at kseryak@nd.edu 
Top seed U Got A Bad Draw wins but does not dominate 
By JOHN EVERETT Sports Writer 
In a game that took a lot longer than it had to, the Moonshiners !inally reached 21 points to put away Ghetto Fab, a squad of girls from Pasquerilla West who showed up for the game in white tank-tops with messages written in marker. Ghetto Fab member Julie Opet said the messages were not meant to have a pur­pose. 
Although Ghetto Fab won the coin toss, it was The Moonshiners who got off to a fast start by forc­ing turnovers on each of Ghetto Fab's first two possessions and ex!lcuting the break pllrfectly fgr a 2-0 lead. 
At that point it appeared the game would be over quickly, but Eric Blevins of the Moonshiners decided to take a larger role in his team's offense. 
Blevins made it abundantly elear that he did not mind shoot­ing the ball. His first, from beyond the 3-point are, cleared the back­board, hitting the metal pole behind it, and the second cleared everything. Blevins was heard, after each shot, saying, "That was pretty close." 
If not for the efforts of Rob Gilmer it is hard to say whether this game would have ever ended. Gilmer, known as "The Toledo Tornado" in homage to his hometown and hi<> patented spin move down in the post, put up six points and eight rebounds to lead the way for the Moonshiners. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 

The Moonshiners advance 

O'rBrien-Smitli Lecture Series presents 
Jack Welch 
"."">":WJ$ 
WI 
I 

Wednesday, April 13, 2005 4:30 pm-6:00 pm Jordan Auditorium 
Mendoza College of Business 
Book sale awJ sij.(1tiug to /(.Jtlow in th•• Atrlum 

Opet led the way for Ghetto Fab, scoring three of the team's four points. After the game, Opet and her teammates were only mildly di<>appointed. 
"Our shots weren't falling," Opet said. "We hadn't planned on winning this game, but we hope this will help us do better in the women's tournament." 
Team Awesome 21, We Go Down the Court 2 

In a game that came danger­ously close to being a shutout, Team Awesome made quiek work of We Go Down the Court, a team comprised of five McGlinn ~:,rirls. 
Team Awesome was led by it<> trio of Pats -Pat O'Brien. Pat Conley and Pat "Tastyeakes" Gotobeski -who had their own cheering section, as three of their male friends stood on the side­lines, bare-chested, with the let­ters P-A-T emblazonnd in green on their ehests. 
Team Awesoine maintained a high-intensity playing style throughout the game, long after the outeome was no longer in doubt. Whether they were just exhibiting their work ethic or needlessly trying to embarrass their opponents is hard to say, but We Go Down the Court's Katie Grimes let her disapproval be known. 
"We considered thL<> a chance to tune-up for the women's tourna­ment, but apparently it wa<> also a way to boost the self-esteem of some of the men on campus," Grimes said. 
U Got A Bad Draw 21, The Diamond Dick Podell Experience 
8 

In a game that was delayed fif-. teen minutes while U Got a Bad Draw waited for team member 
O.reat Food! 
Brady Quinn to arrive, the 
defending champs showed 
Diamond Dick just how literally to 
interpret their name. 
Before the game, the members 
of the Diamond Dick Podell 
Experience, who named them­
selves after an old man they met 
in Oseo who claimed to have been 
a waterboy for Notre Dame in the 
days of Knute Rockne, appeared 
optimistic, almost to the point of 
being bra<>h. 
"We're honored to have the 
opportunity to knock out the big 
guns," team member Dick Dunne 
said. 
Sam Young ofDDPE IL<>tod what 
he thought were his team's main 
advantages over the defending 
champs.· 
"Power, size, speed -I think 
we've got all three," Young said. 
Along with Quinn, U Got a Bad 
Draw li.latures offensive lineman 
Dan Stevenson (6-foot-6, 297 
pounds) and offensive lineman 
Scott Raridon (6-foot-6, 315 
pounds), who is playing in the 
place ofChinedum Ndukwe. 
U Got a Bad Draw came out fhr 
the start or the game wearing 
brand-new, shiny red uniforms, 
the team name across the chest 
and each player's numbnr on the 
back along with a nickname 
instead of'tl1eir surnames. 
Both teams struggled to score 
early, as the game appeamd to be 
a contest between two top-tier 
defenses. 
DDPE put up a good fight, at 
one point down only 9-5 and 11-6 
at the half. In the second half, 
however, the athleticism of the 
defending champs wore down 
DOPE, as U Got a Bad Draw 
dosed the game on a 10-2 run. -----------­
Contact john Everett at 
jeverett@nd.edu 
O.reat Fun! 

#l Sports Jar in South Jend 2046 South Jend Ave ~ Across frotM Martins Plaza 
272~1766 
CALL 10PAV10 RESERVE YOUR GRAPUA110N PAR1V 
rues: COLL£~£ NI~HT-UJ 6-SPECIALS (STAitTIN~ AT ~1.00) Wed; Live TRIVIA Night -Jrit1g your teaiMs -Prizes fhurs: UJ -Petuw Night -1~ Specials startit'lg at 9PM 
MUST S£ 21 -N£V£1t ACOV£1t WITH ASTUV£NT IU 
I 
! 
I 
..I 
Thursday, April 7, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NO SOFTBALL 
Team looks to remain hot, extend win streak 
streak that is now into its third between these two teams this are likely to split the game for weather permitting.
By THOMAS BARR 
week. season. the Irish. The Irish have dealt with bad 
Sports Writer 
During this time, they have The Cardinals ended a four­Booth comes in with 1.22 weather on many occasions 
outscored opponents 53-7 and game losing streak yesterday ERA while Steinglem is averag­this season, having at least ten 
Notre Dame (21-8) hopes to have recorded an impressive with an extra inning win at ing 10.25 strikeouts per seven games postponed or cancelled remain undefeated at home .337 batting average. home in Muncie, Ind. Ball State innings. thus far this year, including when it faces Ball State (10-23) After playing two double­defeated Indiana State in nine The forecast calls for rain segments of tournaments. today. headers in two days, the Irish innings, 6-5. late tonight through early 
The Irish have been hot as of were given yesterday off. Pitchers Heather Booth (11-afternoon. The game is sched­Contact Thomas Barr at late with a 10-game winning This will be the first meeting 4) and Steffany Steinglem (9-4) uled for 5 PM at Ivy field tbarr@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles struggle vvith errors, drop tvvo gan1es to Albion 
The Belles offense showed the first game of the double Britons pushed two across, stranded at second. By BRIAN CARDILE signs of life, producing nine dip and led 4-3 going into the taking a 6-4 lead. The game went to a second Sports Writer runs in each of the double­sixth inning. The Belles fought back, extra frame, where the 
header's two games, but the But Briton Jessie Loegel sin­knotting the game at 6-6 after Britons pulled away, scoring 
Saint Mary's (5-12, 0-4) defense committed eight gled in Jenelle Vleck -who a sacrifice bunt by Sarah four runs to make the final 
dropped its eighth and ninth errors on the afternoon, allow­had reached base earlier on Miesle and an RBI double by score 10-6. 
consecutive games today, ing six unearned runs ~o cross an error -to tie the game at McKenna Corrigan. The second half of the dou­
falling 10-6 and 11-5 to con­the plate. 4-4. The next two batters flew bleheader had a promising 
ference foe Albion College. Saint Mary's played well in In the top of the eighth, the out, however, leaving Corrigan beginning for Saint Mary's. The Belles got on the board early, when Corrigan hit another RBI double in the first inning that scored Audrey Gajor. The hit would have net­ted two runs but Laura lleline was called out in a close play at home to end the inning and the threat. Albion countered with four runs in its half of the inning. taking a lead th team would never relinquish. Saint Mary's pulled within one at 4-3 in the third inning, but the Britons scored the next five runs to pull away. twentu­ally winning the game 11-5. The six errors committed by the Saint Mary's defense made any chance of a comeback near impossible. The young Belles squad showed promise throughout the afternoon, but had trouble stringing together good
Saturday, th, 

innings, which allowed a very consistent Albion team to
at 11am-3.:JO 

notch the two victories. The wins were the first and second for the Britons in MIAA
Hesburgh 

play. Saint Mary's fell to 0-4 in the conference and will need
Kroc to put forth a strong effort as the season progresses if they hope to make any noise in the conference. 
The Belles play away this Saturday. meeting Adrian College. They return to Saint Mary's April 14 for a doublr dip against llopP College. 
Contact Brain Cardile at 
bcardile@nd.edu 
• ~· p' 
-sibc 
1-4545 


I I 
I J l 
I 
-------_ __c__________:____
~_:____~.l 

----------------,-----­

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 7, 2005 
Errors 
continued from page 28 
those runs were earned as the Irish committed three errors in that inning and five overall on the game. 
Those lapses 

in defense -"J know we have the 14-0 lead with two 
13 errors in the players." more runs in the past three seventh inning games for the before the Irish Irish is con­Paul Mainieri got on the board cerning Irish coach in the bottom of Mainieri more the seventh. than his pitching staff's strug­A single by Eddie Smith gles. scored Greg Lopez to get the 
Pitching and fielding are costing Irish dearly 
A year ago, Notre Dame's 12th loss was its last-a 7-6 defeat to Arizona in the NCAA tournament on June 6. 
This season. the Irish sur­passed that loss total Wednesday with a one-sided, 14-5 manhan­dling from Ball State at Frank Eck Stadium. 
After being swept in a double­header for only the seventh time in their Big East history with two losses Monday to Rutgers, the Irish stum­bled again in unchar­acteristic fashion. They could­n't got any key hits. They could-n't field, tallying five errors. And they certainly couldn't pitch. 
Two of the three reasons for Wednesday's loss also explain why the Irish are struggling 27 games into the 2005 season. The defense has been bad, the pitching 

"It's obvious that we

worse. great defense yet." While the Irish have some areas of While things bats have been have been bad, 
our team that are 

consistent-aver­Notre Dame real­
not playing up to

aging 7.5 runs per izes the season is contest-Notre the level that we've still young. Dame's staff has Mainieri points to
grown accustomed 

been anything but. 18 more confer­
to."

Paul Mainieri ence games on the teams have schedule as always prided Paul Mainieri opportunities. themselves on After this week­
Irish coach 

solid pitching. But this season. the arms are a weakness. The teams' ERA hovers around 5.11, with opposing hitters batting .314. Two of Notre Dame's better pitchers from 2004, Tom Thornton and Jeff Samardzija, are just 5-4 combined with ERAs of 5.59 and 6.04, respectively. 
Not having the team's top four pitchers from the beginning of last season isn't helping the situ­ation, either. Chris Niese! and Grant Johnson both left school early for the Major League draft, and current starters Jeff Manship and John Axford are slowly recovering from arm problems that kept both out for all of 2004. 
"The biggest change is that you've got two power arms with Niese) and Johnson [gone]," Mainieri said. "When Johnson came back [from injury] we basi­cally had two No.1's." 
Axford, who was drafted in the seventh round of the 2001 draft by Seattle, showed he's not back to form yet, yielding five earned runs and five walks in just 1/3 of an inning Wednesday. Manship has only logged 5 1/3 innings this end's trip to 
Boston College, three of the next four Big East series are at home, where the Irish are 7-2. 
All is not lost, but things must change. 
"It's obvious that we have some areas of our team that are not playing up to the level that we've grown accustomed to over the last decade," Mainieri said. "Right now 'we need to win as many games as we can, and we need to qualifY for the confer­ence tournament. Onee you get in the conference tournament, that's your way into the NCAA tournament." 
It's a simple plan. But it will become much simpler if Notre Dame improves pitching and defense. 
Do those things well and the Irish will start doing what this program's used to -winning baseball games. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
"That's eating at me rriore than anything else," Mainieri said. "Infield defense has been a concern and third base has been our Achillies' Heel all year. I've always taken great pride in our infield defense. 
"I know we have the players. We just haven't done it." Ball State built a 
season. 
Either way, Notre Dame needs someone who can be a stopper. Someone who gets the job done nearly every time out. Someone who gives teammates confidence that the game is under control. 
The Irish just don't have that guy right now. Without him, Notre Dame will eontinue to be up and down all season. With him, the Irish at least have a chance at making a run in the Big East tournament. 
Whether the pitching comes around or not, Notre Dame's defense has to improve, particu­larly in the infield. Last season the Irish had a .967 overall field­ing pereentage. That dropped to just .954 this season entering the Ball State game. Middle infield­ers Ross Brezovsky and Greg Lopez have struggled the most with .839 and .924 percentages, respectively. 
"Our infield defense has been the big concern for me all year," Mainieri said. "It's been such an Achilles' Heel for us. I don't know what to say except that the infield has been a bigger coneern than our pitching ... I really feel like we've got the players that 
can play, they just 
haven't played 
''I've coached over 1,300 games and with the start to the game that we had, it would have been a daunting task," Mainieri said. "I don't want to make more out of it than it is." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlo:zar@nd.edu 
Irish their first run. Matt Edwards hit his 11th homerun of the season after Smith's sin­gle to make the score 14-4. 
The Irish got their fifth and last run of the game in the eighth when Matt Bransfield seored on a fielder's choice. 
The Irish travel to Boston 

College this weekend for a three-game series. 
Despite the 14 runs and five errors, Mainieri knows not to put too much stock into this game and just to get his team focused for the important con­ference games remaining on the schedule. 

April 8th & 9th 7:30 PM v\lashington Hall $1 0 Reserved Seat.ing1• S5 Senior Citizens/Students Tickets avail!able at LaFortune Box Office ·Call 574.631.6211 for infonrtation 
It'sTimeForA 
National Alcohol Screening Day Thursday, April 7th­
Take afew minutes and see how you are 
doing with your alcohol use. 
Free, peer-to-peer, confidential alcohol screenings 
will be available at: LaFortune, North Dining Hall and South Dining Hall 10:00 a.m.-2:30p.m. ~ tlf EACH PERSON WHO ~~"''1 COMPLETES ASCREENING WILL ·~e..oltJ'' BEENTEREDINTOADRAWINGFORANIPOD! ~­
sPoNsoRED BY: OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION. UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER AND PILLARS 
Thursday, April 7, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 

Hoops 
continued from page 28 
was orw of the primary dedd­ing factors in the win. "Wn took tho garnn snriously," Vnga said. "W1~ canw to win." 
Play High Score High 21, Rhodle 14 
Captain Niklas Doebler's team nnternd its garnn Wodnesday with high hopes in mind. 
But following its win over Hhodin, thn learn walknd ofT the eourt with high nxpectations. 
Dooblnr's l'lay High Seore lligh rnliod on its slight height advantagn and solid mbounding 1~n routn to a 21-14 victory. 
l·:arly on in the game, Alumni sophomore fan Nate Barbera baek to narrow the lead at 9-9 pn~dieted size would be the over their visibly worn oppo­dndding factor in the matchup. nents just before the end of the 
"It has kind of been a back half. and forth game," Barbera said. From that point on, the team "I think height turned on its jets might become a and played a much factor as the game "We have taller more offensive­goos on. /Hhodiel guys. the other minded game, will get tired of scoring four con­
team is drunk 
jumping for the secutive points in ball." [and/ the other the second half. Barbera's pre­team smoked at "It just took us a diction provnd while to get
halftime." 
eorrcet. adjusted and used 
Hhodie jumpnd to the screen," ofT­out to an early I.J-7 Matt Goulet campus senior advantage and Baller fan Todd White said. appeared as if it "Once we got up would maintain 11-9, we never that lead throughout the looked back." rnmainder of the game. But Play Doebler credited the team's lligh Score lligh quickly surged positive attitude for the win. 
Now, 

"We like to ... score as high as height was tho decisive factor in possible, just like our name the team's 21-B victory. says. We have high spirits and "We couldn't stop them that's what helps us play at a inside," Saint Mary's sonior high level." Katie Boyco of Number I said. 
"We just didn't Seablscult 21, have tlwir size. I
"We just didn't have 
Number 113 think if' we had a In a game that their size. I think if chance to play pitted thn all­them again, we
we had the chance to
male Seabiscuit would have usod
play them again, we
team against the Catlin Conaty all-female would have used morn at the post Number 1 team, and we would
Catlin Conatay
the matchup hav1~ alloy-ooped
more. " 
proved to be a Deirdre Mangan battle of more more." than just the Katie Boyce Number 1 kept sexes. Seabiscuit raeing
Number 1 
Wednesday night's game was one that set height against speed. Ultimately, Seabiscuit's 

all your incoming calls can be free. 
~u.s. Cellular 
w., L·<m'IW.::t tmth you: 
Unllmillld CAll ME Minutes are not de(tucted !rom packaged minutes and are only available in the local calling area. Mobile Messaging 250 package is $5.95 per month thereafter, $0.10 per outgoing mes· sage beyond 250. Must call to cancel. Mobile Messaging -acharge of $0.10 per outgoing message applies if no messaging package is selected or existing package limit is exceeded. Offer valid on two-year 0011sumer service illJreement on local and regional plans of $39.95 or hlgl1er. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Credit approval required. $30 activation fee. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees. surcharges, overage charges and lllxes apply. $0.96 Federal and Other Regulatory charge applies. This is not atax or government required charge. Local network coverage and reliabili· ty may vary. Usago rounded up to the next lull minute. Use of service constitutes acceplance of our terms and condlllons. Other restrictions apply. See store for details. Umited time offer. 02005 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 
up and down the 

court and played with an aggressive defense. With their strnngth lying in out­sido shooting, the Number 1's made the matehup more com­petitive than the score indieatod. 
Saint Mary's senior Katie Boyce of Number 1 said she was proud of hnr teammates, saying they played with a lot of heart. 
"We were playing for every girl in America," Boyce said. 
But despite a hard-fought effort from Number 1, Snabiscuit secured a 14-11 advantage and kept thoir oppo­nents at arm's length for the remainder of the game. 
"We came out llat in tho see­ond half', but after that we pkked it up and pulled togeth­er," Stanford sophomore Kevin Faist said. 
After their triumph over Number 1, the members of Seabiscuit walked off of the courts admittedly relieved. 
"We were just trying to retain our pride," Stanford ·senior Brandon MeNne said. "They played really well." 
Stanford junior Tim Hohman agreed. "We had the luck of the Irish with us tonight," Hohman said. 
Peasant's quest 21, LA BAM U 
Sometimes the best ofTnnsn is a good defense. 
Peasant's quest. exnrnplif'ied this mantra, capitalizing on their height advantag1~ and dogged defensn to create scor­ing opportunities. 
Peasant's quest utilized aggressive play and solid bloek­ing to overeome their oppo­nents' attnmpts at scoring. Although LA BAM showcased a solid passing game, they were unablo to capitalizn on thnir scoring opportunities. 
By half-time, Peasant's quest had the game in hand. The team jurnpod out to an early 15-5 advantage -a lead it never relinquished. 
Once Peasant's quest started making shots, thny aiTordnd LA BAM little opportunity for seor­ing. 
The team quiekly gained ~~on­trol of the pace of the game to wear out their opponents. Fueled by an especially potent offHnse in the second half, Peasant's quest walked ofT the courts with a 21-11 win to extend their Bookstorn Basketball run. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
Interested in sports? Want to write for the Observer? 
Call Mike at 1-4543. 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 7, 2005 
group's intensity in practice exclusive to the two. issue of the "Get Nasty" wrist­Tuesday and stressed the There are a lot of players bands that have been circu­
Line 
development of his-unit in gen­who have been working hard lating around campus. He eral this spring. in order to both live up to emphasized the connotation
continued from page 28 
"We're pro­expectations and of the word nasty and also 
gressing okay," "Jt,s all about making earn playing gave a little insight as to his field come next fall. Oliver said about plays. Fm getting the time. son Charlie's thoughts on the "We got a lot of young guys Tuesday's prac­Justin Brown,­matter.
defenses down, the 
on the d-line ... everybody's tice. "Guys got a current 6-foot-"Somebody's making money fighting for position," Leitko after it, and I like technique, where Fm 3, 240-pound off of me. My son called me up said. "For me, I want to be the way every­supposed to be.,, freshman defen­this morning and it was kinda starting, I want to be out there body's compet­sive end/line­funny, he goes, 'Daddy, do you on the d-line. ing." backer, has get a cut of that action?' and I 
Travis Leitko 
"It's all about making plays. Competing is impressed defen­said 'No Charlie, I don't get a I'm getting the defenses down, the clear word defensive end sive coordinator cut of that action,"' Weis said. the technique, where I'm sup­here. Rick Minter to "I understand marketing and posed to be, but now its getting The intensity in practice that the point where he is throwing all that stuff, but I think the off blocks, getting to that ball, Leitko and Frome have shown his name out there with Leitko most important thing is for just being athletic out there." thus far battling for a starting and Frome. people to understand that 
Oliver complimented the spot come next season is not "We got Leitko and Frome nasty is not a negative, nasty is competing right now, and they a positive." are both doing a good, solid, + After practice on Monday, steady job," Minter said. Weis spoke about how the "You've got Justin Brown offense was dominated by the [who's] a little bit limited in defense. The team was coming terms of a minor injury. He's off Sunday and Monday when the youngest of they had not that lot too, practiced. and that shows The offense
"The most important 
up, but he's got and defense some promise. thing is for people to broke out of I like the way understand that nasty their isolated 
[Brown is] drills early into
is not a negative,
beginning to practice show up, he's nasty is a positive. ,, Tuesday and just a pup." . lined up 11-on-A lot of ques­11. Coach Weis
Charlie Weis 
tions regarding was asked
head coach 
the defensive about why they line will had gone into undoubtedly be that so early in answered as the spring prac­practice and Weis replied in a tices progress. firm, matter of fact manner. 
But whatever happens, it will "We had 11-on-11 early not be for lack of intensity or today because I wasn't very effort from the Irish players. happy about it yesterday," 
Weis said. 
Notes: 
+ After practice, Coach Contact Bobby Griffin at Charlie Weis addressed the rgriffi3@nd.edu 


Denver 
continued from page 28 
All season, Corrigan has emphasized the Irish need to be consistent from start to fin­ish in order to win. That con­sistency was not there against Dartmouth and will need to be there against Denver. 
"We didn't play well at Dartmouth. If there was any consistency at Dartmouth, it was not on the positive side," Corrigan said. "[Denver] is one of those games -it's a league game that we need to win, and they need to win, frankly. So I think this is one of those games where you just lind a way to get it done." 
The Irish have only played one home game this season ­a 22-6 romping of Butler -so the prospect of playing a game at Notre Dame tomor­row is exciting. 
"In a year when we don't have a lot of home games, we're very excited to be home," Corrigan said. "!They're excited] to play in front of their friends and family here." 
The game will begin at 4 
p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
Contact Bobby Griffin rgriffi3@nd.edu 



2005 Nanovic Visiting European Lecturer Louis-Jean Calvet 
Tuesday, April12, 5:00-6:30 pm 118 DeBartolo Hall 

"Language Wars: Linguistic Politics and Globalization" 
Professor Calvet is a leading scholar of sociolinguistics from the Universite de Provence (Aix-Marseille). 
Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies. Hosted by Romance Languages & Literatures. 
www.nd.edu/-nanovic 


Thursday, April 7, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
..---------------, E r--------------., 
~ ..---------------,DOGBERT'S TECH SUPPORT ~ f1 1-----------~g UM ... BUTYOU => 
I LIKE TO BASE
® ~ 
~ HAVEN'T EVEN .a 

MY HELP ON HOW PLEASE FILL OUT THE 
HAPPY YOU EXPECT ONLINE CUSTOMER 
i TRIED TO HELP ~ 
s: ME YET. o 
TO BE.
§ ~ ui

SATISFACTION SURVEY. 



CHARLES SCHULZ

PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Jltmillffi1lE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
I GUBOH 
j
I I r () 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
AZERC 
j
I I r ()tCUSSID 
AFTE:R. HITTING
J (J 
THE: SHOWE'R.S, 
www.jumble.com 
THE: AGING PITC.HE'R. WAS--­
tPAWNEO j 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Mswer here: 

"( I I I I I J' rn 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' I Jumbles: WHILE DEITY VISION BEHALF s Answer: What the librarian did to the remodeling plan-"SHELVED" IT 
ACROSS  29 Singer Edith  56 Mother: Var.  
1 Prefix with  30 Back lot lot  57 Personality  
industry  31 "Little House on  58 Plan for  
5 Pace  the Prairie"  vacations  
9 Malfunction  family name  so Directly from  
14 City whose major league  33 Airplane wing parts  the side 61 Vaudeville  
baseball team  35 Southern title­ performances  
was once  holder  62 Seed's exterior  
named the Naps  40 Adagio and  63 Old talk show  
16 Dirt  allegro  host Joe  
17 Domestic animal  41 Scalding, as  64 Johann who  
thought to bring  coffee  wrote the Swiss  
good luck  42 Job for a barber  natiortal anthem  
18 Persian Gulf noblemen 19 Quiet end?  45 Snookums 47 Fastens, in a way  DOWN 1 Habituate  
20 Was outstanding  48 Words that are  2 Flowers with  
21 Charge for cash  a treat to hear?  sword-shaped  
22 Country for  49 Archangel of  leaves  
which a cat was  salvation  3 Studio output  
named  51 One available in  4 Egg: Prefix  
24 Readies for drilling 26 Mrs. Victor Laszlo 27 "_ With Love"  Mex. 52 Pays off 54 Newbery­winning author _Lowry  5 Rodeo sight 6 Prepare to skate 7 Cause for suppression of evidence  34 General chicken  42 University of Ohio athlete  50 Monarch's loyal subject  ·  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -=+=+::-:+.::-t -:+,:;+.+.,;i!!!pll!l -=+=+-::+.::-r.7!  8 July hrs. in Vegas 9 Adopt-_ 10 Post-disaster appointments 11 Hardly any1hi ng 12 Discord  36 Rigging support 37 Site for people in white coats 38 Kellogg's brand 39 Words in ''The Little Mermaid" after "The  43 Prepare for a massage, perhaps 44 Flexes one's zygomatic muscles 46 Royal's  53 Aretha Franklin's Gram my-nominated sister 55 Dir. for a ship 58 Recipe amt.  
13 Stand in for  human world ..."  attendant  59 Turn left  
15 Prefix with  

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
system For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a ~::+.~,...,., ""!"!''!'P'!!!'!-=~-IIIill 21 Of equal speed credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
23 Blow it 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
25 Vacation isle 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 ..,:,.+..;.+~~:-! 28 Center of a past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).former empire 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young __..___.___.__.__, 32 Aura solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name _____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Candace Cameron Bure. 29; Ari Meyers. 36: Marilu Henner. 53; Merle Haggard, 6K 
Hap11Y Birthday: Trust in your own judgment, knowing I hal someone may try to upset your plans. Be strong. intent and willing to go the distance regardless of opposition. Being well-prepared will he the key to winning this year. Ynur numbers arc 5, 6, 9, 28, 33, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A change in attitude as well as in your financial situation is apparent. An older relative will need addition help or your services. Don't let a slowdown disturb you: the extra lime will aid you in doing what's right.*** TAURUS (April20-May 20): You should do all you can lo help friends in need. The less lime you have to think ahoul your own concerns. the better. A friendship will change the way you think ahout something Lhal you arc involved in. A lillie romance will brighten your day. **** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You may feel energetic today. bul if you overdo it or Lake impulsive action. you will lind yourself in a hit of a hind. Someone you work with will not have the same agenda as you ** CANCER (.June 21-July 22): Everything may he changing around you. hut for once the alterations arc positive; you should relax and let them take place. Going against the grain will only hold you hack. ***** LEO (,July 23-Aug. 22): Ask yourself if you have ulterior motives. You need to retlecl and review your current personal situation. This may he the lime to change midstream if you arc questioning where you sec yourself in the future. 
***** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do something creative with your partner or youngsters in your family. Surprise someone you care about by doing something totally out of character. Sometimes it's good to keep your partner guessing.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Everything will come hack to the way you do a joh or Lake care of matters pertaining Lo your health or the well-heing of someone else. A change regarding the people you work with or the job you arc working on can be expected. Someone may try to pul demands on you. *** SCORI>IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Today is all ahoul having fun and taking care of your own needs. A creative cycle will enable you to do something extraordinary. The more Lime you spend sharing your ideas, the more inspired you will become. 
***** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't Lake anything for granted. You can expect changes at home. Prepare for someone to upset your plans. Have a hackup plan in place, and you will he ahle to carry on as usual. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can meet someone who will compliment you. You can make a difference to someone if you make arrangements to visit. A change of plans will end up being in your favor. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may feel restless ahoul the direction you have been heading. Try something altogether different, and you will know very quickly if you have made the right choice. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be totally changeable at an emotional level, so don't do anything you may regret later. You can contemplate where you see yourself headed, hut don't jump heedlessly into something you haven't researched. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are a doer and a collector with many interests and a desire to help others. You are intellectual, quick to respond, and someone others can always count on. You are a good friend, companion and worker . 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for conlidential 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, April 7, 2005 
page 28 
BASEBALL 
Unlucky 13 
Axford gives up six runs in one-third of an inning as Irish fall 
By MATT LOZAR Senior Staff Writer 
Heading into Wednesday's game against Ball State, Irish coach Paul Mainieri expected a wide range of possibilities for John Axford's first start since 2003. 
Unfortunately See Also for Mainieri and "Pitching and the Irish,
Axford's start fielding have came up on the plagued Irish" disappointing 
page 24
end of the range. 
Axford pitched 1/3 of an inning, walkod five of the eight batters he faced and allowed six runs, five earned, as the Irish dug themselves too much of a hole in losing to the Cardinals 14-5 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"It's just one of things where the kid ne1~ds to find his confi­dence again," Mainieri said. 
"I knew this was a possibility. He's had some control issues his whole career. Even when he was throwing great he had con­trol issues. 
"I knew the possibility existed that that could happen, but. I just felt like for all he's done for the program, I just needed to run him out there and give him a chance. Unfortunately, he just struggled like crazy. Once we got off to a bad start against a good ball club, it was an uphill battle. 

"I just can't give up on the kid," Mainieri said. 
Axford walked the first two he faced before a Brad Miller single scored Mike Sullivan to give Ball State its first run. 
After two more walks, one of which forced in a run, Axford retired Chris Pestle on a foul pop out to Matt Edwards. 
Then, Axford allowed another single and walked in another run before being removed for Tyler Jones, who got the last two outs of the inning. 
During the next two innings, the Cardinals got six more runs off Mike Dury, but only two of 
see ERRORS/page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Defense looks to stay tough without_Tuck 
Several players hope to fill void left when star decided to go pro 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 

Coming into the season, the Irish clearly have a huge miss­ing piece on the defensive line. A 6-foot-4, 265-pound missing piece. 
That's not to say that anyone 
involved with Notre Dame 
football is noticeably worried 
about the absence of Justin 
Tuck. After all, it's a new sea­
son and there is a new coach­
ing staff. . 
"We're building towards the 
future," Irish defense end 
Victor Abiamiri said. "The old 
guys, they did us well, but 
they're not here anymore." 
The Irish being optimistic 
about their defensive line next 
season has a lot to do with 
Abiamiri. The sophomore 
defensive end is a talented 
pass rusher who will be the 
leader in this year's group. 
"''m ready to step up to this 
challenge," Abiamiri said. 
"We've got guys that have 
been through the program and done well, but they arc gone now. It's like a new team try­ing to build a new identity, and I'm trying to be one of the anchor points of the defensive line." 
Tuck's absence has created a situation in which a number of players are vying for a chance to take his place. 
As of now, Chris Frome and Travis Leitko appear to be the front-runners. 
"Right now we got Chris Frome working on the right side, and we got Travis Leitko working on that side," Irish defensive line coach Jappy Oliver said. "Those two are competing well, and I've been pleased with their progress right now." 
Abiamiri echoed his coach's thoughts. 
"We're rotating a lot to see what kind of abilities everyone has, giving everybody equal chances," Abiamiri said. ''I'm not sure how its going to be when the season comes around, but hopefully we'll have a nice rotation going and keeping guys fresh in there." 
This competition is no secret to Leitko, who expressed his own desire to be on the playing 
see LINE/page 26 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
Tournament in full swing on second day 
Bailers crush Team 536; Seabiscuit also takes down Number 1 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Fueled by an opportunistic offense and a patient defense, the Bailers overwhelmed Team 536. 21-11, Wednesday night. 
Although the Bailers seemed a little unsure in the first min­utes of the game, they quickly recovered and gained enough composure to pull ahead of their stumbling opponents, 6­
3. From that point on, a win seemed certain as the Bailers extended their lead. 
Off-campus junior fan Matt Goulet was quick to point out attributes that made the Bailers so successful. 
"We have taller guys, the 

ND SOfTBAll 
LLI 
(.) Streak extends to z ten straight 
Notre Dame bests= < Eastern Michigan 1-0 and 7-5.
ti 
page 23 
other team is drunk [and] the other team smoked at half­time," Goulet said. "It's pretty much a blowout." 
The Bailers combined a solid short game and a num­ber of key steals to extend their lead. Battling blustery winds, Keenan sophomore Bob Laney boasted one of the more impressive plays of the game, capitalizing on an alley­oop after a break away boost their lead to 13-6. 
"We were able to get a lot of open looks at the basket," Laney said. "We broke down their defense, and they had a hard time shooting after that." 
With the score at 19-11, Team 536's fate seemed cer­tain as the Bailers secured two consecutive points for the win. Keenan sophomore J .J. Vega made a layup for the final point of the game. 
Vega said the team's attitude 
see HOOPS/page 25 
SMC TENNIS 
Saint Mary's vs. Hope 
Saint Mary's will take on the MIAA's No. 1 team Thursday. 
page 22 MEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish hope to rebound from loss 
Notre Dame takes on Denver in penultimate home game ofseason 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sporrs Editor 
It's time to get serious. 
Notre Dame (5-2), coming off a disheartening loss at Dartmouth, is heading into a weekend where it will take on Denver Thursday and Air Force Saturday. 


The two games are impera­tive to Notre Dame's chances of receiving an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament starting May 14. 
If the Irish win out in their remaining four games, they 
Matt Malakoff delivers a pass downfield in the Irish's 22-6 win over Butler in Loftus Sports Center on March 19. 
NBA THE MASTERS 
Bulls 102, Mickleson, Singh Magic 101 (OT) and Els ready 
Chicago continued its Several golfers set to winning ways against compete for the Green Orlando. Jacket in Augusta, Ga. 
page 20 page 20 

MlB-Nl 
Astros 3, 
Cardinals 1 Blue Jays 5 
Andy Pettitte allows Toronto scored six just one run in his first runs in the eighth en start since elbow surgery. route to a three-run win. 
page 20 page 19 
will win the Great Western Lacrosse League and receive an automatic berth. 
Before they worry about that, however, they will first have to defeat Denver (5-2), an extremely talented Great Western Lacrosse League team that has yet to play a league game. 
"We're going to face a real challenge, because Denver is a very good team and our guys know that," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "But I think we're a good team too." 
The one-goal, 10-9 loss to Dartmouth was tough as the Irish allowed two goals in the final three minutes, but Corrigan is confident his team will be able to rebound. 
"I think we'll bounce back well," Corrigan· said. "l think that last weekend was a tough_ weekend for us, but I really believe that our guys are excited." 
see DENVER/page 26 
MlB-Al 
Devil Rays 8, 







