
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Students, fans lament NO's overtime loss 
Notre Dame its first loss ol' Many studnnts, like l'n~sh­By PAT MOORE the season. Despite the out­rnan Andrew Massari, said the News Writer come, however, Irish fans Irish could have playnd better enjoyed the exhilarating, Saturday. Massari said he tense game. thought the team was "incon­
The noise bellowing from "Until the final play, it was sistent all th11 way around." the Notre Dame student sec­one of the best games I've "There were spots whern we tion in overtime eould have ever seen,". marching band wore brilliant and spots wn sacked Drew Stanton for a member Dennis Hankin said. wern dull on both sidns ol' thn loss. Saturday's home opener was ball," lw said. 
Al't e r an e I e c t r i fy in g 2 1-especially meaningful t.o l'irst­Somn students expressc1d point comeback, the Irish year studonts, as it was their disgust not with thn loss but snemed determined to finish first home game as students w i t h t h e be h a v i o r o [' t.lw off' Michigan State Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. Spartans' playnrs at the eon­afternoon. From the looks of Freshman Allison Lang spoko elusion of the game. Many the student section, Notre !'or most students who had players tauntnd thn Notrn Dame was going to win -never been inside the stadium DamP fans !'rom tlw linld, and 8,000 screaming, conl'ident when she described the expe­a group of Spartans staked student fans could not possi­rience as "surreal," delighted the Miehigan Statn l'lag at tlw bly be wrong. to be "part of Notre Dame so~yard line. 
Yet the section turned silent football rather than watching when Michigan State handed it on T.V." see LOSS/page 4 
Changes in parking frustrate driving fans 
Ry MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Early Saturday morning, hopnful football l'ans a r r i v~~ d a t No t rP D a m e Stadium by the earload ­narlinr than Notrn Dame Sc~rurity/PolieP assoeiate direetor Phil Johnson had S!HHl in years. I>nspite the nlimination of 1,700 park­ing spots, fans still man­agnd to l'lood campus by narly morning, but not all wnrn satisf'ind with the Univnrsity's adjustnwnts. 
"Tho inbound traffic we t h i n k we n t v n r y w cd I , " .Johnson said. "It was the earliest, largest, arriving inbound crowd police reporl!~d in years. Before thn one-way pattern Ion Juniper Hoadl startnd, parking in White field (north of Douglas Hoad, wnst of' .lunipnr Hoad) was over half full by 10 a.m. So we didn't run out of capac­ity in any way, but it was a large erowd." 
From tho fans' perspec­tive, just getting to a park­ing lot and finding a spot proved difficult. 
Notro Dame fan Anthony 
see PARKING/page 4 

Katrina collection is a success 
Generous donors give over $197,000 at game 
By PATRICK DOWD News Writer 
Preliminary nstimates for the amount of mmwy raised by the Katrina Collnetion at this weekend's home game against Michigan Statn put the total in the realm of $197,000. While this esti­mate falls considerably short of the colleetion 's hope to match the $270,000 raised at Notrn Dame Stadium after Sept. 11. 2001, it constitutes only a portion 0 r tlw Ill any nfforts the ll niversity is 
see KATRINA/page 6 



ND students create 'sea of gold' 
Mixed reaction to 'The Shirt' evident in crowd 
Ry HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
News Writer 
After wcwks of' discussions about what eolor Notre Dame Stadium would bn for tlw lirst homo l'ootball gamn. the ques­tion was answernd Saturday ­gold. 
Although grnnn and othnr colors were seattnrml through­out tlw studnnt snc~tion -nspe­dally tlw senior section -most studnnts f'illnd thP stadium wearing gold shirts, induding this ycmr's Tlw Shirt. Tho Shirt presid1m t Kati!~ Fox said she was pleased to sen tho student body unite in gold. 
"I thought the stadium looked 
st;e SHIRT/page 4 


ACE teachers assist in rebuilding efforts 
By JULIE HYNES 
News Writer 
While many teachnrs from the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) worn displaced by Hurricane Katrina's path of destruction, a dedicated few are fighting to rebuild schools and begin educat­ing again. 
Assistant Director of ACE Colleen Garvey said while Notre Dame's ACE teachers in the Biloxi, Miss. area were displaced, most chosn to return to the area to help with relief efforts almost immediately follow­ing the storm. 
ACE teacher Tony Hallowell is one of those teachers. Hallowell com­
pletely fillod his ear with food, water and ieo and drove straight baek to 
Biloxi only thr110 or  four  
days  after  the  storm  
cleared.  

"Nothing much was got­ling done just sitting on the couch," llallowoll said. "I saw that poople down thorn were eating clam chowder MHEs, and that didn't sound very appetizing. thought the lnast I eould do was to bring somn food and supplies down thorn." 
llallownll said hn realized thern was plnnty ol' work to be donn whnn hn arrivnd in Biloxi. lie said he has been staying with mnmbers of' the community while work­ing with othnr ACE. teaeh­
see ACE/page 6 



Proud to be Irish 
Notre Dame students are used to seeing the incredible every day. 
My first home game was no exception. and for the rest of my life I will never forget what I saw this Saturday. 
Brian
I saw 100,000 devoted Irish DeSplinter fans pack this campus. 
Wzre Editor
I saw the living legends of this school cheer alongside mere freshmen like myself. 
I saw our team fight hard and fight well. But what impressed me the most was what I saw after the game. 
When the odds turned against the Irish in overtime and Michigan State charged our field, I saw a peculiar thing happen. 
Instead of filing quietly off the field as their fans hurried out of the stadium, the Fightin' Irish walked over to their student sec­tion to stand in union with their friends. 
State had no time to gloat, because their opponents already had their gold helmets in the air and were receiving a thunderous volley of applause from the student section. 
And though the Spartans had a large band and cheering section, the Irish were louder in defeat than State was in victory. 
I saw all of this, and I have never been more proud to be Irish. 
Not that I enjoyed losing. In fact, exactly the opposite; and this brings me to my point. 
During those few minutes after the game we showed that spirit that distinguishes us from every other student body. No one in that stadium left unimpressed, especial­ly the freshmen. 
So come next Saturday, it will be that same spirit that inspires us to cheer even harder for the Irish who play hard for us. 
I can only imagine how petrified Tyrone Willingham is of the Irish team he knows is ready for blood next week. Saturday was a tough beat, but it is only going to make us play harder and nastier each and every time out. 
This is an incredible time to be a freshman at Notre Dame, even for students who are used to seeing the incredible every day. 
I was told a thousand times before coming here that Notre Dame was a very different kind of place. 
On Saturday night, the freshman graduating class of 2009 got our first taste of exactly what that means. Now we know what it means to be NO. 
And when the Trojans come to town, we are going to make them know too. 
Contact Brian DeSplinter at 
bdesplin@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, rec­ognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please con­tact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 19, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR REACTION TO SATURDAY'S FOOTBALL GAME? 







Kathryn Schuessler  Lori DeMent  Matthew Casanova  Julie Anne Cannon  Lisa Ridley  Valerie Gadala-Maria  
junior Walsh  junior Cavanaugh  sophomore Keenan  freshman Farley  junior Lewis  freshman Pangborn  
''I'm suffering a deep emotional ,breakdown.  "Waahh.''  "Utter disappointment. "  "It was a devastating way to spend  "It made me feel better about not having  "It was an emotional roller ,coaster.  

my birthday." 


Students launched a football from a giant contraption Thursday on South Quad during a project for their physics lab. 
OFFBEAT 
French fry record set with over 4,500 pounds 
GRAND FORKS, N.D. ­Residents here have gob­bled up a new record for the largest single serving of french fries. An estimated 4,518 pounds of french fries were consumed dur­ing Thursday night's annu­al french fry feeding frenzy. 
This year's total eclipsed the record of 4,410 pounds of fries set two years ago. 
Along with 11,000 serv­ings of fries, organizers had more than 100 gallons of ketchup on hand. · 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Man breaks 'couch pota­to' world record for watching TV 
NEW YORK -Couch potato, thy name is Suresh. Suresh Joachim broke the Guinness world record for the longest time spent watching TV. He finished Friday with 69 hours and 48 minutes. 
After passing the previ­ous record of 50 hours and 7 minutes Thursday, Joachim continued until shortly after 7 a.m. Friday morning (EDT). 
Joachim did his TV viewing in the lobby of WABC-TV as part of the "Guinness World Record 
Breaker Week" on the syndicated "Live With Regis and Kelly." 
Sitting on a brown leather couch, he watched nothing but ABC shows. 
''I'm going to be a little tired of watching TV after this," Joachim told The Associated Press by phone during a brief break. 
Rules for the couch potato honor, as stipulat­ed by Guinness, allow for a 5-minute break every hour and a 15-minute break every 8 hours. The viewer must otherwise be constantly looking at the screen. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a::: 
1.1.1 
::E: 
~ 
1.1.1 

3: J)
..... 

~
~ 
c( 
CJ 
0 
HIGH 78 HIGH 56 HIGH 77 HIGH 81

...I LOW 61 LOW 48 LOW 56 LOW 58 
tickets." 
IN BRIEF 
A poetry reading by Trinidad Sanchez will be held today at 7 p.m. in 208 McKenna Hall. The event is sponsored by El Instituto Cultural de Liderazgo en el Medio-Oeste, the Institute for Latino Studies and Amigos de Ia Comunidad. 
Author Frances Sherwood will give a lecture sponsored by the political science depart­ment titled "Meeting Mary Wollstonecraft: Legacy as Personal Odyssey" Tuesday at 7 p.m. in room 210-214 McKenna Hall. A reception and book signing will follow the lecture. 
Hammes Mowbray Hall, the new home of Notre Dame Security/Police and the Notre Dame post oflice, will be dedi­cated at 9 a.m. on Friday, Sept. 23. University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh will offer a blessing, just as he did at the dedication five decades ago of the book­store that was located on the South Quad from 1955 to 1999. 
Fiddler's Hearth is hosting a "halfway to St. Patrick's Day" Irish Fest today through Sept. 23 to raise money for the Red Cross Hurricane Relief Fund. Irish bands The Sprigs, The Bardic Apostles, The Fenians, Teada, Brock McGuire and local band Kennedy's Kitchen will perform, and all have dis­counted their tickets to aid the relief. Fiddler's Hearth is locat­ed in downtown South Bend at 127 N. Main. For tickets and information, call 232-2853. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor· mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

~ 

HIGH 81 HIGH 74 LOW 56 LOW 56 
Atlanta 89 I 66 Boston 76 I 61 Chicago 74 I 54 Denver 86 I 56 Houston 94 I 77 Los Angeles 77 I 60 Minneapolis 84 I 68 New York 80 I 64 Philadelphia 84 I 64 Phoenix 100 I 80 Seattle 66 I 52 St. Louis 80 I 55 Tampa 88 I 76 Washington 86 I 64 
Monday, September 19, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Five tickets ca111paign for SMC fresh111an class office 
All candidates desire to build class unity through service work, fun events; voting occurs today unti/11 :59 p.m. 
By MEGAN O'NEIL S;lint Mary's Ediror  about. that." At a panni session Thursday 'the tickets answernd ques­ high school for four years, said one issue shn would like to tackle as first year class  said. The event, whieh sho hopes will includn Saint Mary's and  got a list or all tlw first yoar rooms on campus and knocked on nvnry singJn door.  
tions posnd by Lerner and  presidnnt is the sometimes  Notre Dame students, would  Tho pair said  thny would  
other members of the student  strained Notre Dame-Saint  include a  24-hour dance dur­ also like to  promotn tlw  con­ 
Saint Mary's nnwclst stu­ body  about  their  goals  if  Mary's student body rnlation­ ing which money would  be  nection  hntwonn the  Notrn  
dnnts havo five tiekots and  a  elected to office,  ship.  raised for local charitins.  Damn and Saint Mary's first  
varioty or campaign ideas to  "It went quite well," Lerner  "We really want to get rid of  "This is aetually something  year elasses.  Further, they  
rhoosn from  in today's first  said. "Normally first years  the stereotypes between the  we can start and continue las  said they want to  maintain  
ynar presidential and vice  are  really  Notre Dame  a classl." Johnson said.  open lines of communication  
prnsidontial oloction.  nervous,  but  women  and  Presidential  candidate  with their elassmatns through  
The tickets, Francesca Johnson and Pauline Kistka, Audrey Anweiler and Maura  all of the candidates were really  "Normally first years are really nervous, but all of  the Saint Mary'~ women,  Anweiler spent four ynars after high school stationed in San Diego as an enlisted ser­ e-mails and monthly surveys. "Wo arn just really motivat­ed," Partyka said. "We have a  
Cloughorty, Mary Conroy and Katie Connolly, Maggie Johnson and Christina Partyka and Jnnnil'nr Gray and Therese Tschudy spent the last sevclral days wallpa­pnring campus with posters and flyers and knocking on doors to introduco themselves to elassmatos. Hxporienee among this year's field of candidates  well pre­pared and we felt all of them would do a great job." All the tick­ets said they want to build class unity through serv­ice work and  the candidates were really well prepared and we felt all of them would do a great job. " Danielle Lerner elections commissioner  Gray said. "l haven't experienced [the tensionl myself but some girls said they did, especially at Domerfest." Gray said she would like to build a  vicewoman in the Navy before enrolling at Saint Mary's. "I'd say it gives me the type of lead­ership traits to be a good president," she said.  "We are just really motivated. We have a lot ofdifferent ideas, but even ifwe don't win it has been a good experience. We have gotten to know a lot of  lot of different ideas, but oven if we don't win it has bonn a good experi­ence. We have gotten to know a lot of people." First yc~ar stu­dnnts have until midnight tonight to log on to  
ranges from high school stu­dPnt council prnsident to cap­ fun events. Conroy, student council president of her high  strong bond between the first year classes at the two  Anweiler said she and  people."  Prism and voto, Lerner said.  
tain ol' varsity sports toams to four ynars military nxperi­encn.  school, said she and running mate Connolly hope to be a strong and experienei1d voice  schools through organized events with both Saint Mary's students and Notre Dame stu­ running mate Clougherty want to lead  Christina Partyka candidate  Candidatos will hn notifind ol' the rnsults at 9  
J.:lndions  commissioner  for the first year class on the  dents.  their elass in  a.m.  Tuosday.  
J>aninlln Lnrnnr said while  board  of govnrnanee,  the  Campaigning With the slo­ efforts  to  Due to the  num­ 
thnre  aro  l'ownr tickots this  highest student government  gan "Your energizer bunnies;  help  with  bnr  of tic~kl~ts,  
ynar than last, tlw quality of  body at Saint Mary's.  ws will keep going and going  Hurricane  Katrina  relief,  there will be a runoff election  
tlw c~andidatns is imprnssivo.  "First of all  we  have  <in  for you," Francesca Johnson  either  through  collection  Wednesday between tho  two  
"I  think last ynar  we  had  nnthusiasm and a love for the  said although she has  never  drives or a service trip to the  tickets with the highest num­ 
upwards  or  eight  or  nino  school," Conroy said. "We  hold  a  major leadership posi­ area.  ber of votes. Tho final winners  
Itickots I," slw said. "Tho last  want to have every first year  tion, her determination and  "We  feel  service  is  very  will be announeod Thursday.  
fnw yours the first years have  to  have the best year they  enthusiasm make her a strong  important  and  we  can  do  Lernor said.  
IHHHJ  roally oxc:itnd about stu­ can."  candidate.  something even though we are  
dPnt govornmnnt and obvi­ Gray, who served  as  a  stu­ "One thing we want to do is  so far away," Clougherty said.  Contact Megan O'Neil at  
ously  we  are  roally happy  dent eoundl representative in  start a  dance marathon," she  Maggie Johnson and Partyka  onei0907@saintmarys.edu  


Come to the 



·Emmaus Kick-Offfor Free Ice Cream 
and to meet staunch Emmaus Supporter, 

Alfonso Ribeiro!!* 
TONIGHT 
6:00-7:00pm in the 
Disclaimer: The fimmaus team does not have any actual proof that Alfonso Ribeiro will be attending the 
* 
Emmaus Kick-Off. although we have prayed fervently for such a miracle, This advertisement does not reflect Alfonso Ribeiro's real opinion about Emmaus Small Faith sharing groups, Alfonso Ribeiro, in all probability, has never heard about Emmaus groups, This whole ad is really nothing more than an elaborate charade (except for the part about the free Ice cream. there will be plenty of free ice cream at the Emmaus Kick-Off} Although, maybe aller he hears about the fn:e ice cream, Alfonso will show up. I mean, what else is he up to? 
Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Join a Small Faith-Sharing Group! 

...-----------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 19, 2005 


Parking 
continued from page 1 
Bertini said he and his broth­er Frank drove in from New York City for the game. 
"It was u~rrible," he said. "We drove in from New York and I had to pay $20 to 
Arter the game, disappoint­ed fans flooded back on the Transpo buses. Defeated, hoarse and tired, they searched the parking lots for their cars. 
Peter Salvador from San Francisco said White field north had no signs to help drivers remember where they 
parked their 
vehicles. 

park. The wait "I saw this
"It was terrible. We 
for tho bus older couple
drove from New York
was way too walking long. They and I had to pay $20 to around, and I don't have park. The wait for the don't know if enough buses, they ever
bus was way too long.
and it was not found their a direct They don't have anough car," he said. 
route." buses, and it was not a "The older 
Bertini's man disap­
direct route. " 
brother peared into echoed his the night. sentiments. Anthony Bertini "This one 
"The school fan couple could­
has an eight million [dollar1 endowment and they can't get enough buses?" he said. 
Transpo released a fleet of about 20 buses to run throughout the city during the game. The shuttle compa­ny began delivering busloads of fans to Library Circle three hours before kickoff and did not stop until 45 minutes before the Irish took the field. 
As Dave Holkien of Elkhart walked along Juniper Road after being dropped off by a bus at Library Circle, he rolled his eyes and pointed at the new Jordan Hall of Science. 
"I just want them to remove that building so we can have more parking," he said. "But it's hard to say, I guess [park­ing] was the same as always." 
Fans that were planning to park in Blue field south were redirected to White field north, a grassy lot just north of Douglas Road and west of Juniper Road. 

Loss 
continued from page 1 
Junior John Corker, a rabid Notre Dame fan, said he was disappointed in the postgame actions of the MSU players. 
"It's understandable that they're excited that they won, 
but that showed no class," Corker said. "Obviously that's the dif­ference between Michigan State and Notre Dame." 
Most students said despite the loss, they were nonethele.ss impressed with the game, Charlie Weis's first at home as Notre Dame head coach. 
Freshman 
n't find their 
car either, and it had taken them an hour and a half, so I let them in my car and I said, 'Hey, I'll drive you around to find it."' 
Twenty minutes later, after driving up and down each row of the lot, the couple finally spotted their car, Salvador said. 
Outbound traffic did not run as smoothly as the inbound pattern, Johnson said. 
"The outbound pattern was crowded," he said. "Michigan State is our largest drive-in game of the season ... and everyone left at the same time. Unfortunately that had some impact on the traffic." 
Johnson will meet with county police and Transpo officials next week to assess the situation and make adjustments before the next home football game on Oct. 15. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
completely different team from last year," he said. "If we were down by 21 last year, we would've lost by more." 
Senior Himanshu Kothari said he was especially impressed by the play of wide receiver Maurice Stovall. 
"Stovall's performance showed that we can stop put­ting the heat on Darius 

"It's understandable that they're excited that they won, but that showed no class. Obviously that's the difference between Michigan State and Notre Dame. " 
John Corker student 
Walker, that we have another offensive weapon," Kothari said. 
The loss was certainly a reali­ty check for fans, who had come into Saturday's game off the high of a 2-0 start against ranked oppo­nents Pittsburgh and Michigan. But students like Massari are no less confident in the Irish than they were 
J.D. Fitzpatrick -no relation to kicker/punter D.J. Fitzpatrick -said the game showed growth from the team, including resolve in their comeback. 
"We showed we were a 
before the loss. 
"I fully expect to beat USC," Massari said. "In fact, I'm looking forward to it." 
Contact Pat Moore pmoorel@nd.edu 


to wear gold to future home Saturday. games although he sported a "I wore a Leprechaun


Shirt 
white Notre Dame jersey Legion shirt because it was continued from page 1 Saturday. green." senior Tim Fiorta 
"I think it would look better said. "Yellow shirts? We're great in gold," Fox said. "I if everyone better than was really happy everyone wore the same that."
"I think it would look 
supported what The Shirt color, but I'm S e n i o r project stands for. It really is not a big fan better ifeveryone wore Paul Pogge, a symbol of the unity of the of The Shirt," who wore a
the same color, but I am
student body, family and com­he said. "II green Notre
not a big fan ofThe
munity." am] probably Dame shirt, The Shirt project benefits not [going to Shirt. {1 am/ probably said he was­Student Activities and buy The n't too both­
not [going to buy The 
Organizations as well as The Shirt], but I ered that
Shirt], but I am going to
Shirt Charity Fund and The am going to the student Rector's Fund. This year's The try to wear a wear a gold shirt. " section was Shirt color is gold, after being gold shirt." a mix of col­green since the 2002 season. Senior Sara ors in some
Jim Lynch
"It's the overall unity behind Ryan, who places.
junior
the single color that looked wore a gold "I thought 
great," Fox said. "Gold is such "Kegs and a great Notre Dame color -Eggs" shirt, it's bright and it makes an said she would wear the same impact." thing for the next home game 
Senior Mike O'Neill, who on Oct. 15. wore a blue "Kegs and Eggs" 'The senior section definite­
shirt to the game, said he became sold on at least the color of The Shirt after Saturday. 
"Surprisingly, I didn't hate the gold in the stands," he said. "The gold looked much better on a few students than it does laying on a rack at the bookstore. Any color is going to 
"It's the overall unity behind the single color that looked great. Gold is such a great Notre Dame color -it's bright and it makes an impact." 
Katie Fox The Shirt president 
ly had less gold on then the freshmen, but I don't think the fact that we didn't all have the same color really changed anything," she said. "Although I do think it looks better when we all have on 
look good on an enthusiastic the same color shirt, despite Irish fan." what is actually on the shirt." 
Junior Jim Lynch, who But not all students were bought The Shirt but gave it sold on The Shirt or the idea to his brother, said he will try of gold in the stands after 
the student 
section looked good with everybody either wearing gold or green," he said. "All of the knockoff shirts that are the same color as The Shirt are pretty inter­esting. If I had made the shirt I would have written: 'God made rivers, God made lakes, God made the Trojans, we all make mistakes."' 
Junior Doug Mahoney, who wore a navy Notre Dame jer­sey despite buying The Shirt, said he was more concerned with one of the cheers than the color of the crowd. 
"I thought it was funny how the freshman section was all gold but it faded into a big mix by the senior section," he said. "I think the bigger issue is having everyone figure out what chant we're doing at the start of the fourth quarter." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


LIVE AND STUDY 

ROME INFORMATION SESSIONS 
5 PM MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19  131 DEBARTOLO  
OR  
5 PM TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27  131 DEBARTOLO  






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 19, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Britain willing to send more troops 
LONDON -Britain will keep its troops in Iraq as long as they are required and could send more soldiers if necessary. British Defense Secretary .John Heid said Sunday. 
"Our troops will be thnre until such times as t.hn conditions arn mot -those condi­tions !wing the Iraqis themselves having sud1 demoeratie nmtrol and such security forces that they can tah the lead," Hnid told lTV television. 
Britain has somn IJ,OOO troops in Iraq, most in thn south of thn country nnar Basra. Hnid said more British troops r.an be dPployNI there if tlwy are rwedml. 
"We don't rwed them at tlw moment. If thny an~ rHH~nssary, of coursn we would do that. and when the Iraqis dncidn that llwy want to takn over the transition and the lead, t.lwn they will tell us," hn said. "But llwrl' is no nrtting and running. We are tlwn~ until this job is donn." 
Sharon urges Hamas disarmament NI·:W YOHK -lsrcwli Primo Minister AriPI Sharon said Sunday that hn has asknd 
ll. N. and Europnan ll'aders to press for the disarming of llamas militants and the abo­lition of tlwir r.ovenant -Israel's destruc­
ti 0 II. 
Sharon told a confm'l)ll!~e of American .lnwish lnader·s lhat lsnwl won't wopnrate in l'aiPstinian PIPrlions schnduled for .January unlPss those two 1~onditions are met. 
lsraPii assistance is wnsidered vital for sn1ooth e!Pctions. In .January, whnn Mahmoud Abbas was Plnctml to rnplacn tho lall' Vasser Arafat, lsnwl opened West Bank roadhlorks and nased othnr restrictions. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Florida Keys evacuated for storm 
MIAMI -Thousands of tourists jammnd tlw highways Sunday after tlwy were told to I'Val'uatn the lowm· Florida Keys because Tropical Storm Hila developnd over the Bahamas and moved toward tho vulnerabln, low-lying island I'IJain. 
A hurricann watch was postnd for the nntirn Florida Knys, which mnans hurricane conditions of winds of at least 74 mph arn possihll~ by Jato Monday. 
In Tallahassnn, (;ov . .Jnb Bush deelared a slate of mnergnncy for Florida, which gives t.lw statn authority to ovnrsen evacuations and activate the National c;uard, among oiJwr pownrs. 
Ex-Governor on trial for corruption 
CIIICACO -Formnr Illinois Gov. (;norge Hyan won acwladns for clearing the state's d1~ath row, but a scandal that dnstroyed his popularity and mad11 him uneleetable in 2002 has now brought him to a uitical 
r.o11 fron tatio11. 
Ac!·used of doling out big-money statn 1~ontracts and ll'asns to political insiders, llw 71-year-old vl'll'ran politician is sdwd­ulPd to go to trial Monday, charged in a 22­eounl indictmnnl with raeknteering con­spiracy, mail fraud, lying to thn FBI and tax fraud. 
lin dl'nins thn chargns and says he 'II be arquittl'(l. 
LOCAL NEWS 
IU-Bloomington whistle blower fired 
BI.OOMIN<;T<>N-An Indiana University nrnploynn who aceusnd thn sdwol of failing to protect studonLo; and workers from exposurn to asbestos has bmm fin~d. but IU ollidals say the dismissal has nothing to do with his criticism. 
Tomas Beauchamp was fired Sept. 12 for inappropriate bnhavior toward oflice stalf, said Tnd Alnxander, dirmtor of JU's ollice of environ­mental health and safety. 
In a tnrmination letter, which Beauchamp pro­vided to The I Jerald-Times, Alexander said he was fired for sexually harassing a student intern. 
BERLIN 

Female challenger gets edge 
Voters prove to be underwhelmed by both parties; outc01ne remains unclear 
Associated Press 

BEHLIN German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder called for early parliamentary elections to reinforce his mandate, and challenger Angela Merkel urged voters to show their support for hHr tax and labor market reforms. 
But the outcome of Sunday's election showed voters underwlwlmed by eitlwr leader's party.. and the rnsult is that Germans could end up with both of them. 
O!Tieial results showHd Mnrkel's Christian I>nmoerats getting sJ·ightly more votes than Schroeder's Social Democrats but failing to win the majority nench~d to govern. even when eom­binnd with her prnferred coalition partner, the pro­businPss Fn~11 l>mnocrats. 
Supporters at Merkel headquarters wero sub­dune! after the party's poor p11rformance. The Christian l>nmouats eonsistently poll11d abovfl 40 pnreent during the campaign, with surveys giving it a double­digit lnad. 
If MIH'kel is to becomn Germany's first female ehancellor, she has to find a eoalition partner that would force her to water down plans to shake up the slug­The inconelusive result mandate from voters to city of l>rnsdnn, has bonn gish economy, Europe's opened a scramble among form a new coalition gov­delayed until Oct. 2 because biggest. the parties to s1~n who could ernment. Voters wore of the dnath of a candidate 
One leading possibility: a come up with a majority. choosing lawmakers for tho but tho outcome thern was linkup betwiHln her Schroeder. written off as 598-seat lower house of not expected to afToet the Christian Democrats and a lame duck a few weeks parliament, which elnets final rnsult. Schroeder's Social ago, refused to concede the chancellor to head the Merkel's preferred coali­Demoerats, viewed by some defnat, saying he could still government. tion partners -tho pro-busi­as a rneipe for paralysis in a theoretically remain in "What is important now is ness Free Dnmoerats -had country plagued by 11.4 power if talks with other to form a stable govern­9.8 pnrcent, leaving such an percent unemployment. parties were successful. ment for the people in alliance short of outright 
Thn vote centered on dif­"I feel myself confirmed Germany, and we ... quito victory. The Greens, llw ferent visions of (;ermany's in ensuring on behalf of our elearly have the mandate to Social Dnmoerats' current role in the world and how country that there is in thn do that," she said. governing partner, had 8.1 to fix its sputtering m~ono­next four years a stable With 298 of 299 districts percent; togethor, tho two my. Schroeder touted the government under my lead­declaring, the results parties failed to rnael1 a country's role as a ership," he said to cheering showed Merkel's Christian majority, horalding the end European leader and coun­supporters at party head­Dmnoerats with 35.2 JWr­of Schroeder's sevl~rkynar­terbalance to Ameriea, quarters, flashing the cent of the vote coml><trl~d old governnwnt. whiln Merklll pledged to thumbs-up signal and hold­to 34.3 percent for The Left Party had 8.7 reform the economy and ing his arms aloft like a vic­Schroeder's Social pen~ent or thn vote, hut strnngthnn relations with torious prizefighter Democrats. Voting in the Schroeder said lw would Washington. But Merkel elaimed a final district. the eastern not work with them. 

City's health system facing crisis 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS-This eity's health care faeilities have been shattered to an extent unmatched in U.S. history, and its hospital sys­tmn faces grave challnnges as resi­dents begin rnturning, the vice president of the national hospital accreditation organization said Sunday. 
The official, Joe Cappiello, said several hospitals were probably damaged beyond repair by Hurricane Katrina, while some may try to rush back into business before conditions are safe. Others, while rebuilding, may lose doctors and nurses to communities else­where. 
He also recounted harrowing details of how doctors and nurses felt compelled -against the fun­damnntals of their training -to make triage-style choiees during the flood. They Wfire forced to aid some patients at the expense of others with less ehance of survival. 
"Essentially the health care infrastructure of New Orleans is gone -it no longer exists," said Cappiello, who just completed a three-day mission to the city along with a colleague from the Illinois­based Joint Commission on Accreditation of I-Iealthcare Organizations. 
Although the city has more than a dozen hospitals, no11n have resumed normal opnralions. Officials at Childrnn's llospital. which Mayor Hay Nagin had IHilWd would be ready when residents are allownd to return to the Uptown neighborhood this week, said they may need 10 morn days to pre­pare. 
Nagin's plan is to start repopu­lating the city neighborhood by neighborhood, starting Monday with the Algiers seetion, across the Mississippi Hiver from downtown NHw Orleans. Over the next week and a half. the Garden District and the French Quarter, the city's his­toric heart, are due to open to res­idents and businesses. 

continued from page 1 
ers to prepare the schools in the area for reopening. 
Ilalf the ACE teachers from Biloxi helping with the relief efforts are currently staying at the ACE house in Mobile, Ala. because ACE does not want to put any more strain on resources in the Biloxi community, Garvey said. She also said the house 
A C E teacher S a r a h Miller said the Mobile house was dam­aged in the hurricane, so the teachers cleaned up the convent in Mobile before work on the Biloxi schools began. Miller said the crew is now focusing on Resurrection High School and Resurrection Elementary because those schools had the least amount of damage. The schools are set to resume on Oct. 3. 
"We've been clearing out the schools, getting rid of damaged furniture and tak­ing down drywall," she said. 
Garvey said rebuilding their schools is a top priori­ty for the Biloxi community. Although many of the homes in the area were destroyed, Gar.vey said the 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
main concern the communi­ty immediately voiced at a meeting with their pastor was providing a means for continuation of their chil­dren's education so the children could have some sense of normalcy during such a difficult time. 
Hallowell said he believes reopening the schools is important to young people in Biloxi. 
"All these kids see these days is their houses being 
ripped 
down, and 
they don't 
get to see 

is a con­"We've been clearing out t h e i r vent, so it friends as
the schools, getting rid of 
has extra much as
damagedfurniture and
rooms and they nor­bathrooms taking down drywall. " mally do," to accom­he said. "It modate the can be
Sarah Miller
teachers. very ov·er­
ACE teacher 
whelming. 
The return 
to school 

will give students a chance to be able to share their experi­ences." 
Hallowell also said the ACE teachers feel fortunate to be able to be a direct part of the relief effort in Biloxi and that he has been impressed by the overall response to the area by other people aware of the situation. 
The teachers are heroes in the opinion of ACE Director John Staud, who was impressed by their actions and drive to restore normalcy to the Biloxi com­munity. 
"I wasn't surprised," he said. "1 was inspired." 
Contact Julie Hynes at jhynes 1 @nd.edu 
ASMA founder l111am added to ND Forum 
Special to The Observer 

Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf, founder and chief executive officer of the American Society for Muslim Advancement (ASMA) and 
imam of New York City's largest mosque, has been added as a panelist for the Notre Dame Forum Thursday. 


A previous-Imam ly announced panelist, Prince El Hassan bin Talal of Jordan, is unable to attend due to government obli­gations in Jordan. 
The inaugural Notre Dame Forum will begin at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center arena and is the academic centerpiece of the inauguration of University President Father John Jenkins. 
Titled "Why God? Understanding Religion and Enacting Faith in a Plural World," the forum will feature three other world leaders in addition to Imam Feisal ­Cardinal Oscar Andres Hogrfguez Maradiaga, S.D.B., of Honduras; Naomi Chazan, professor of political science 
Israeli-Palestine peace process; and John C. Danforth, former U.S. senator and for­mer U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. Retired NBC Nightly News anchor Tom Brokaw will serve as the mod­erator. 
Imam Feisalleads Masjid Al­Farah, a mosque in Manhattan. He has dedicated his life to building bridges between Muslims and the West and is a leader in the effort to build religious pluralism and integrate Islam into modern American society. He founded ASMA in 1997 as the first American organization com­mitted to bringing Muslims and non-Muslims together through programs in culture, art, aca­demia and current affairs. 
Imam Feisal has been a tire­less advocate for an ecumeni­cal solution to the Israeli­Palestinian conflict and is the architect of the Cordoba Initiative, an interreligious blueprint for improving rela­tions between America and the Muslim world and pursuing Middle East peace. 
Initiated by Jenkins, the Notre Dame Forum will be an annual event in which the University will bring world leaders to campus to share 
Katrina 
continued from page 1 

undertaking as part of its long-term commitment to communal rehabilitation in the Gulf region. 
Student government, dorms 
and clubs across campus have held sev­eral fundrais­ers, and many alumni from around the country have entrusted their donations in good faith to the University. The money raised in these cases will be added to the greater University fund 

"{In the long term] what [the University] will most likely do is 
mobilize both financial and person-powered resources. 
Jean Ann Linney vice president and associate provost 
along with the stadium col­
lection. 

Student body president 
Dave Baron said he was 
pleased with the stadium col­
lection performance and the 
high level of donations from 
fans at the game. 

"$200,000 is a fine amount 
that is going to help a lot of 
people," he said. 

The Katrina Collection can 
also be deemed a success in 
that it encouraged aware­
ness, something that will 
surely pay dividends in the 
future as students look for 
ways to serve, organizers 
said. 

Aly Baumgartner, student 
coordinator of the stadium 
collection, said she was 
inspired by the solidarity 
shown among students for 
hurricane victims at the 
game. 

"The volunteers were 
amazing," she said. 



Study in 

Jean Ann Linney, vice pres­ident and associate provost, has taken the task of coordi­nating the University's many initiatives for aiding the affected region. She is espe­cially involved in the University's efforts to accom­modate students who were displaced by the hurricane. 
"[Notre Dame has) offered 'visit­ing student status' to law school stu­dents and graduate stu­dents, and on a more limit­ed scale to undergradu­ate students who already had a pre­existing rela­tionship with t h e 
University," Linney said. 
But because of the school's residential structure and enrollment levels, Notre Dame has said it has no 
spare housing for undergraduates on campus. However, the University has been exploring the possibility of stu­dents staying in dorms at Saint Mary's. 
The real chal­lenge for adminis­trators like Linney is to devise a sys­tem for displaced 
Monday, September 19, 2005 
tributions towards relief efforts will be dived among Catholic Charities USA (50 percent), Alliance for Catholic Education (25 per­cent) and Holy Cross Missions in the affected areas (25 percent). the University is currently exam­ining how to best establish effective involvement on a personal level. 
Many students and mem­bers of the Notre Dame fami­ly have expressed a desire to travel to the Gulf region to actively help in rehabilitation efforts. 
Bill Purcell -who with Director of the Center for Social Concern Father William Lies is spearheading relief efforts at the Center for Social Concerns -speaks daily with the social action director for the Archdiocese of New Orleans. Purcell said "there is no way students can be accepted as early as October break," as the resources to house volun­teers are currently nonexist­ent. However, the possibility 
"$2oo,ooo is a fine amount that is going to help a lot ofpeople. " 
Dave Baron student body president 
of service trips over winter break is b e i n g taken into consider­ation, he said. 
Purcell also said it is important to think of 
students that allows them to attend Notre Dame without creating a financial burden. 
"[In the long terml what [the University] will most likely do is mobilize both financial and person-pow­ered resources," Linney said. 
While the University's eon-the school's commitment not as a "one hit wonder," but as a sustained effort of commu­nity rebuilding to take place over the next three to five years. 
Contact Patrick Dowd at pdowdl@nd.edu 



CHINA 
Information Sessions for 
BEl] IN~ 
and 

~HAN~HAI 
5PM Tuesday, September 20  117 Hayes-Healy  
or  
5PM Monday, September 26  129 Hayes-Healy  

and African studies at Hebrew their experiences and advice University of Jerusalem, a for­with Notre Dame students who mer member of Israel's parlia­are preparing to enter the ment, the Knesset, and a public debate and shape pro­three-decade participant in the fessional life. 
L_-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, September 19, 2005 

Dow

}ones 10,558.75 +13.85 
_.., 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,552 185 ~~ 2,063,153,480 

AMEX 1,710.13 +19.80 NASDAQ 2,146.15 -3.18 NYSE 7,583.14 +5.85 S&PSOO I ,227.73 +0.57 NIKK£1(Tol<yo) I i,9R6.7R 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,383.50 +36.1( 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) -0.05 -0.02 39.1 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.15 -0.04 26.2 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +1.07 +0.19 18.0 SIEBEL SYSTEMS (SEBL) -0.39 -0.04 I 0.3 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.24 +0.06 24.5 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.30 +0.58 45.1 I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.10 +0.46 42.1• 5-YEAR NOTE +0.91 +0.36 39.9• 3-MONTH BILL +0.30 +0.10 33.5~ 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.34 64.7. GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.60 459.31 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.45 81.1 
Excha e Rates 

YEN I I 0.63~ EURO 0.818 POUND 0.553 CANADIAN$ 1.184 
IN BRIEF 
Eli Lilly to work on E. coli drug 
B!\NG!\LOIW, India -U.S. pharmaeoutieal giant Eli Lilly and Co. plan~ to work with an Indian firm lo dnvnlop a drug that usns benign viruses to kill llw doadly 1\. eoli baclnria in ntllln, llw lndian company said Thursday. 
India's Gangag1~n Biotechnologies dnVI~Ioped tlw drug and signed an agreement last week with )~Janco Animal lloallh, the animal foed division of lndianapolis-basnd 1\li Lilly, to eon­VI'rt. tlw drug into a eattln !'ned supplement. .Janakiraman Hamarhandran, chairman of <;angagt~n Bioterhnologios, told reportnrs 
I>owloping tho drug cost Gangagon $3 mil­lion, and l·:lanco plans to spend anothnr $5 million to producn thn ntttln fned. 
Tlw drug can lwlp pr·nvent thn bacteria from spreading to humans through contaminatod lwPI', which ~~ausos 70.000 inl'netions and a fpw dozpn dnaths each ynar in llw Unitod States alorw, Hamaehandran said. 
"!\ cocktail of such viruses ran be a better option than antibiotics, which arn inrrnasingly losing lhnir ndgP," said Hamaehandran. 
Newcomed coming to Fort Wayne 
I.'OJ!T W!\YNJ•:, IN.-!\ company that makns surgit~al instruments and orthopodie products plans to opnn a plant. in thn city that 1·.ould crtHtln up to IhO jobs. 
O!Tidals for Nemeonwd said the city's work force and transportation infraslrue­turn lwlpPd <~onvincn thnm it was thn host plarn to build its $10 million. H,OOO­squan•-foot plant. 
!\bout I (,0 orthopPdies production jobs will bn <~rnatnd within f'ivn ynars in Fort Wayrw that llw company othnrwisn would havn lot~atnd in nnarhy Warsaw or it lwad­quartnrs in llieksvilln, Ohio, o!Tidals said Monday. 
Tho plant will opnn in fall 2006 and nm ploy 20 to 40 pnopln by l.hn nnd of nnxt ynar. Its snvnn-acrn location in a businnss park nnxl to lnlnrslaln 69 will provide spacn for· nxpansion, and Nnrnconwd plans to add 20,000 square !'net in 2009. 
N1nneonwd <lf~signs and makes surgical instrunH•nts and orthopedic products it dis­tributns through larger eompanins in the businnss, ineluding somn based in nearby Warsaw. 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Judge reprimands drug lawyer 
Superior Court Judge Carol Higbee threatens to declare 1nistrial in second Vioxx case 
Associated Press 

ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. ­
The judge hearing a 
product liability suit 
against Mnrck & Co., the 
manufacturer of 
painkiller Vioxx, repri­
manded the company's 
lead lawyor Thursday for 
violating pretrial instruc­
tions barring comments 
about lawyers in front of 
tho jury. 

Threatening to declare 
a mistrial, Supnrior Court 
Judgn Carol H. lligbee 
said Morek lawyer Diane 
Sullivan had made 
repnalnd negative refer­
ences about attorneys in 
.her optming statement to 
jurors Wednesday, 
dospite being told not lo 
do so. 

"It's simply playing to 
the bias of jurors ... a 
eertain poreeption that 
thorn are too many law­
suits and lhal it's causing 
soeiely problems," lligbee 
said while the jury was 
out of the courtroom. 
In Wednesday's open­
ing, Sullivan made refer­
enee lo plaintiff and didn't warn doctors by Higbee's eritieism and When testimony 
Frederiek "Mike" or users that Vioxx could a dispute over whether resumed Thursday, Dr. 
Humeston being "sur­inereaso the risk of heart Merck would be allowed Gregory J.ewnr. 
rounded by lawyers" and attacks and strokes. t.o admit into evidnnee a llumnston 's physieian, 
later critieized their Sullivan denied those key 2005 memo from a rPturnnd to thn stand. 
interprotation of evidonee allegations, telling jurors Food and Drug Under qunstioning by 
by saying, "That's not sei­that Merck's witnesses Administration advisory llumnston allornny Chris 
ence, that's lawyering, would prove Vioxx had committee. Tho judgo Senger, Lower said if lw 
lawynring, lawynring." nothing lo do with ruled it eannot be admit­had known of tho Vioxx 's 
Humeston, a 60-year­Humeston's heart attaek led. potential eardiovaseular 
old postal worker from and the company Besidns reiterating tho risks, he would rwver 
Boise, Idaho. alleges researched the drug's warning that attornnys have prns<:rilwd it. for 
Vioxx eaused him to suf­effects and reported tlw should not east a~per­llumeston. 
fer a heart attack four problems when il found sions on other lawyers, "I didn't. have tlw infor­
years ago. llurneston had out about them. Higbee on Thursday mation I wish I had at tlw 
been taking the bloek­Whitchousn Station, barred them from making lime," said Lew1~ r. who 
buster drug for about two N.J.-based Morek with­any further references to said the Vioxx packagP 
months to reliPve linger­drew the popular arthri­Merek having pulled insert. and lalwl didn't l!dl 
ing pain from a Vietnam tis and pain treatment Vioxx from the marknt. him of the risks. 
War shrapnel wound to from the market in Both sides had raisod Lnwer said that. 
his knee. llis lawyers t<~ld September 2004 after its that fact in opening state­llumeston had onen 
jurors on Wodnosday, own roseareh showod ments. lligbne said it was asked him about ampu­
when testimony began, Vioxx doubled risk of not relevant bncause the tating his lng because tlw 
that Mnrck rushed the heart attack and stroke withdrawal happened pain was so bad, but. 
produet onto the market, after 18 months' use. after llumnston 's heart Vioxx rnlinved his pain 
ignored evidence of prob­On Thursday, tlw start attack and al'lnr hn filnd aftnr other drugs had 
lems with sornn patients of tnstimony was delayed suit. failed. 

Spending fears weigh on markets 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Disappointing narnings from electronies retailer Best Buy Co. lne. sent stocks falling Tuesday as investors feared lackluster consumer spending heading into the holiday season that would weaken the overall eeonomy. 
Best Buy's pro!'its, whieh rose 25 percent from a year ago, missed Wall Stroot's foreeasts, and the company said the current quarter also would miss targets, heighten­ing investors' concerns that high gasoline and healing oil priees will hurt eonsumers. 
!\ drop in crude oil didn't help the stock market. !\ barrel of light crude closed at $63.11, down 23 cents, on tho Nnw York Mereanlile Exehange. 
The retail news also overshad­
owed a slightly better-than-expect­nd report on wholesale inflation. The Labor Department's Produenr Prien Index rose 0.6 pnrennt. in 1\ugusl, less than the 0.7 pnret~nl expectl~d. With costly funl priens rnmoved, "core" PPI was flat for the month. 
"You have some good economic data, but I think everyone is still trying to !'igure out what the post­llurricane Katrina environment is like," said .Josoph Battipaglia, ehinf investment officer at Hyan Beck & Co. "For now, the fundamentals look strong, but that eould change in the next few months as the dis­tortions eaused by Katrina eome through in the eeonomie data, and that's what has people holding ofT." 
The Dow Jones industrial avnr­age I'ell S5.50, or 0.8 percent, lo 10,51)7.44. 
Broadnr stock indkators also lost ground. Thn Standard & Poor's 500 index dropped 9.36, or 0.75 pn r en n t , to I . 2 :~ I . 2 0 . a n d tlw Nasdaq eomposiln index slid 11.08, or 0.51 perennt, to 2.171.75. 
Bonds recow~red al'tnr the prnvi­ous session''s sello!T, with thn yinld on the 10-ynar Treasury not!' falling to 4.13 poreenl from 4. 17 percent late Monday. Tho dollar was narrowly mixnd against ot.IH•r major eurreneies, whiln gold priens !'ell. 
Even as invostors l'oeusnd on oil and eonsumer spnnding, tho latnst P.eonomic data rnmairwd surpris­ingly robust. !\long with the lower I'PI report, the Commnren Department reported that tlw nation's trade deficit fell ln $57.9 billion in July from $59.5 billion in June despite highnr import priens !'or crude oil. 
r-~ 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, September 19, 2005 
NORTH KOREA 
Country vovvs it will halt nuclear progran1s 
Joint statement released by six-party arms talks 
The negotiations had been
Associated Press 
deadlocked over Pyongyang's 
BEIJING -North Korea demands that it retain the right pledged to drop its nuclear to civilian nuclear programs weapons dcv1dopment and arter it disarms, and the state­rejoin international arms ment acknowledges the North 
i-treaties in a unanimous agree­has made such an assertion but ment Monday with other coun­doesn't go beyond that. tries at six-party arms talks. North Korean officials had The joint state-also demanded 
ment was the first the country be
"[North Korea] 

ever after morn given a light­than two years or promised to drop water nuclear negotiations. reactor at the lat­
all nuclear 

The North est talks -a type
weapons and

"promised to drop believed to be less all nuclear current nuclear easily diverted for weapons and cur­weapons use ­
programs and to 

rent nuclear pro­but Washington
get back to the

grams and to get had said it and back to the [Nuclear] other countries at [Nuclear I the talks wouldn't
Nonproliferation

Nonproliferation meet that request.
Treaty as soon as

Treaty as soon as Putting aside the possible and to possible and to question for now, accept inspec­the joint state­
accr:pt

tions" by the ment said: "The
inspections. , 

International other parties Atomic Energy expressed their Agency, according arms talks joint respect and to the agreement agreed to discuss
statement 

by the six coun­at an appropriate tries at the talks. time the subject of 
"All six parties emphasized the provision of light-water that to realize the inspectable reactor" to North Korea. denuclearization of the Korean Pyongyang has also refused to Peninsula is the target of the totally disarm without getting six-party talks," the statement concessions along the way, said. while Washington has said it 
The North and United States wants to see the weapons pro­also pledged in the agreement grams totally dismantled before to respect each other's sover­granting rewards. The state­eignty and right to peaceful ment, however, says the sides coexistence, and also to take agree to take steps to imple­steps to normalize relations. ment the agreement "in a 
"The United States affirmed phased manner in line with the that it has no nuclear weapons principle of 'commitment for on the Korean Peninsula and commitment, action for action."' has no intention to attack or The other countries at the invade [North Korea] with talks said they were willing give 
nuclear or conven­ energy assistance  
tional weapons,"  to  the  North,  
according to the statement, assur­ "This is the most  including a South Korean plan to  
ances echoed by South Korea. Negotiators agreed to hold  important result since the six-party talks started more  deliver electricity across the heavily armed border dividing the  
more  talks  in  than two years  peninsula.  
November, where they were expect­ ago.  "This is the most important  
ed to  move on  to  result since the  
concrete discus­ Wu Dawei  six-party  talks  
sions about imple­ vice foreign minister  started more than  
menting the broad  China  two years ago,"  
principles outlined  said Wu  Dawei,  
in Monday's agree­ China's vice for­ 

ment. The main U.S. envoy, eign minister. Assistant Secretary of State The talks, which began in Christopher Hill, has warned August 2003, include China, that could still be a long Japan, Russia, the United States process. and the two Koreas. 



Looters run ratnpant after storm 
New Orleans, surrounding area plagued by property snatchers 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -Itwas like a modern-day treasure map -a computerized diagram of neigh­borhoods with codes marking the addresses where National Guard soldiers came upon caches of goods tak1m by looters in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. 
"There's probably still loot out there" hidden in v~trious homes, Capt. Gregg McGowan said from his Oklahoma National Guard unit's makeshift headquarters. 
"We're not going house-to­house looking for it, but if we_ find it, we secure it so police can cheek it." 
In the chaos that followed came from and that someone open and emptied of cash and Katrina's flooding, looters target­else must have broken into his bags of ammunition still pack­ed everything from groeery home and stashed them there aged ii) 500-round bundles, not stores to gun shops to trendy after he evacuated. Skeptical, the the individual boxes of 20 rounds women's elothing boutiques. soldiers detained him until police usually sold over the counter. Now that the city is mostly empty arrived, filled out a report and A smashPd-open video poker of eivilians, military patrols mak­seized the goods. They took the machine, likely taken from a bar, ing house-to-house eheeks for man's name and address, but did was left lying on the sidewalk of remaining residents or the dead not arrest him. an Uptown residential street. are finding some of the hiding "You could be technical and In a ehureh-run assisted living plaees for the stolen goods. say, 'I'm going to book him with home close to a heavily looted 
New Orleans District Attorney possession of stolen property,' Wal-Mart in the lower Garden Eddie Jordan said he intends to but then you have to find out Distriet, a team of guardsmen prosecute as many looters as he who the owner is, find out found new bicydes, stereos and can. However, few arrests have whether that person had permis­clothing. Someone associated been made thus far because sion take that property," New with the church, who refused to authorities have been primarily Orleans Poliee Capt. Marlon give his name, said at least seven eoncemed with reaching strand­Defillo said. rooms in the four-story residence ed residents, Jordan said. "So what we're generally were filled with goods believed to 
The guardsmen recently doing is seizing the goods as be stolen. thought they had caught a looter found property and writing a New Orleans police are storing coming back into town to load report." seized loot in a makeshift ware­his stash onto a moving truek. That way, he explained, house near the city's train sta­Inside his home, the soldiers authorities can return the goods tion, Defillo said. He deelined to found automobile parts stacked if they figure out where they provide details on how many eight feet high, a new off-road came from -rather than hold­goods had been found, how motorcycle and various electron­ing them as evidence pending many businesses or homes had ics, including a video game sys­the resolution of often drawn-out been looted, or ifauthorities had tem with a pawn shop ticket still criminal eases. any long-term plan to track attached. In other homes, McGowan's down some of the culprits. 
But the man told the soldiers unit found automatic teller "We haven't even had time to he had no idea where the goods machines that had been broken deal with that yet," he said. 



• 
e 

Entries accepted Sunday and Monday, Nov. 27 & 28 • 


1st place: $100 2nd place:$75 3rd place: $50 
Merit Award: $25 
Open to all students --All media accepted Entries must be matted or framed 
Interested? Contact Cassie Belek <cbelek@nd.edu>
• 



Monday, September 19, 2005 
The Observer + COLLEGE NEWS page 9 

Male students enroll at -wotnen's college 
St. Mary's of the Woods College admits men in hopes of increasing enrollment 
Associated Press 
TI\HHE 11/\UTE, Ind. ­Two men have become the first male students at Sl. Mary-of-the-Woods College, thn oldest Homan Catholic liiHJral arts college for women in thn United States. 
Hobert Brown. 21{, who is marrind and has three chil­dren, said that when he fill11d out an admissions form he had no idea he would h11lp write history at 
the western Indiana college. 
The union carpenter from Hoopeston, Ill., is now pur­suing an undergraduate degree in accounting infor­mation systems through the Woods External Degree pro­gram. 
llis wife, who rncently graduated through the WED program, urged him to sign up for elassns. 
"I figured if I was ever going to gel a degree, this would be the place," Brown said. "I'm nxeited to have lhn opportunity." 
Brown and tlw other male student. who asked not to be 
Want to Call 

"I figured ifI was ever college's 
long-range
going to get a degree, 

growth plan,
this would be the place. I w h i c h 
am excited to have the includes a goal of 1,100
opportunity." 

full-time stu­dents by Robert Brown 2010. student The college 
identified, took part in a residency Thursday along with about 90 other WED students; the rest were women. 
The college was founded by the Sisters of Providence in 1840 and had remained a women's school until this fall. The decision was part of the 
has had 35 
inquiries 
from men, with five· of those applying, said Jill Blunk, director of distance education admis­sions. 
College President Joan Lescinski said she's pleased with the response to the changes in the WED pro­gram and the number of inquiries. 
"We're absolutely delight­ed at the support we've received from so many dif­ferent people for this move," she said. 
The college's campus­based resident undergradu­ate program will remain for women only. 
History tnajors discover nevv jobs 
Students find that degree does not limit them to a teaching career 
Associated Press 
MUNCIE, Ind. -Forget classrooms and chalkboards. Think historical re-enact­ments and rock 'n' roll cos­tumes. 
College students majoring in public history are discov­ering career options avail­able to them that few would 

associate with  a  traditional  
history degree.  
This summer,  Ball State  

University senior Alex Lindamen spent 15 w-eeks guiding international visitors through Alaska's Denali National Park, home of the country's highest mountain, Mount McKinley. 
His favorite part of the experience? Helping German visitors navigate trails by dog sled. 

"I loved the sled dog demonstrations, too," said Lindamen, 21, a public his­tory major. "For someone who's never been west of Chicago, it was quite an experience." 
The goal of a university's public history program is to acquaint history majors with jobs that are history-related but non-teaching. Examples include work in archives and records management, muse­ums and the interpretation of national parks and his­toric sites. 
Students enrolled in .public history programs at Ball State and Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis have taken many of the dep·artmental courses required of tradi­tional history majors. IUPUJ's program is graduate level; Ball State's is one of only a few undergraduate programs in the country. 
Public history majors also must take courses in public history, research methods and historiography, in which they learn to write about history. They must then complete a required intern­ship that can open the door to jobs in the field. 
The workload is intense and is one reason so few stu­dents enroll, said Michael Orleans to Baton Houge. Doyle, who heads Ball Ball State public history State's public history intern­major Laife Janovyak was orw ship program. About 10 stu­of a handful of interns nation­dents complete tho program wide who spent the surnnwr annually, he said. at George Washington's Mount 

Another reason for smallor Vernon estate. class sizes is that "only a Janovyak donned period limited number of college dothing and guided visitors students are aware there is through sites such as such a thing Washington's as a public pioneer farm history and grist mill, major," Doyle where the 
explained. In "Everyone thinks that nation's first 
his nine years president pro­
you have to teach. 
as head of Ball duced f'lour 
State's pro­and that:c; afantastic from wheat. gram, Doyle profession. but ifit's i\ theater 
said, only one minor, .Janovyak 
not your thing ... well,
student also wrote an 
Lindamen -there are still ways interpretative 
has approached you can part ofthe program for the him at the high grist mill that
history field. " 
school level relied on detailed with an interest research about in the field. Erin Mulloy the life of William "Most of the student Hoberts, one of 
students pick it up as upper­classmen," Doyle said. 

Elizabeth Brand Monroe has directed IUPUI's graduate program in public history for 11 years. 
About six years ago, the program doubled in size and now maintains about 30 active public history graduate students. 
The National Council on Public History, the nation's professional public history association, also is headquar­tered on the campus of IUPUI. 
While many public history majors land internships at museums and libraries close to home, some score the kind of dream gigs that often sound made up. 
Five years ago, orw of Doyle's students interned for the costume archive of Cleveland's Hoek and Hoek Hall of Fame. Othors have interned for documentary filmmakers or the foundations of notable figures such as Frank Lloyd Wright. 
One of Monroe's interns is at the Louisiana State Museum, now helping move the state's artifact collection from Nnw Wa.:;hington's mill 
workers. She's 
since been con­
tacted by an 
interpreter who'd like to use her script to portray HoberL<> at the mill. 
Doyle said he is proud of what Janovyak wa.c; able to accomplish while at Mount Vernon. 
"It's about unheard of for a summer intern to carry out the kind of quality research that Laife did," he noted. "And to put those skills into writing a script that may be used by the estate is unbelievable." 
.Janovyak carne to Ball State knowing she wanted to study history but unaware that the university offered a public his­tory program. 
"At the time, I didn't rnally even know what public history was," she said. "But studying it at the undergrad lev1~l has given mn a leg up in know­ing what I want to do with my life." 
Monroe said shn would love to son morn students ­undnrgraduatn and graduatn alike-nntnr the publie his­tory l'iold. Every otlwr ynar. IUI'UI sponsors a workshop for collegn juniors and snn­i 0 r s r0 c u s 0 d 0 n (~ a r (1 (1 r s availabln to those who study history. 
The morn pnopl11 who an~ awarn of the roln public his­torians play in socinty, tlw better, said Ball Statn snnior Erin Mulloy. This senwstnr, shn's archiving rncords of the IIerman Miller f'urniturP collection at thn llnnry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Mich. i\s a public history major, Mulloy also has archivod work for Garf'inld creator Jim Davis. 
''I'm a big believer that we nend to lnarn from the past." Mulloy said. "And tlwrn an~ so many things out there students ean do that an~ his­tory-based, they just don't know about. 
"Everyone thinks you have to teach, and that's a fan tas­tic profession, but if' it's not your thing ... wnll. tlwre an~ still ways you can be part of the history rinld." 


page 10 
The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 19, 2005 

Train derailn1ent kills tvvo, injures n1ore than 80 in Chicago 
National Transportation Safety Board claims train was traveling 60 mph above the speed limit before the accident 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A commuter train was going almost 60 mph above the speed limit just before it derailed, killing two people and injuring dozens, the acting chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board said Sunday. 
Mark Hoscnker said the Metra train was traveling at 69 mph and should not h!lVC been going faster than 10 mph when it switched tracks at a erossover just before jumping the traeks Saturday. 
"Sixty-nine miles an hour is very, very fast when you're dealing with a 10-mile-an­hour restriction," Rosenker said. 
The speed information came from a preliminary reading of one of the train's three electronic data recorders, popularly known as "black boxes," Rosenker said. 
Part of the investigation included an interview Sunday with the train's engineer, Rosenker said. The 41-year­old man had been on the job for 45 days after completing Metra's six-month training program, which included at least some training along the route where the derailment occurred. He also had worked for more than five years as a CSX Corp. freight train engi­neer. 
The NTSB will also examine records of the train signals and radio transmissions from a control tower, Rosenker said. 
Investigators have deter­mined that nothing was abnormal with the tracks, which had just been inspect­ed on Friday, he said. 
The double-decked com­muter train was headed into Chicago from Joliet on Saturday morning with 185 passengers and four crew members when its locomotive and five rail cars jumped the tracks about 5 miles south of downtown. 
The train began to derail as it switched tracks, striking a steel bridge just beyond the crossover. Rosenker said that collision damaged at least one rail car and likely con­tributed to at least one of the fatalities. 
The train and the track had just been inspected Friday, said Judy Pardonnet, a spokeswoman for Metra, the commuter rail system that services the Chicago area. 
The train engineer, three crew members and dispatch­ers were all tested for drugs and alcohol, which is stan­dard procedure, Pardonnet said. 
The train's engineer is tak­ing three days of paid leave for "trauma debriefing." She said no decisions have been made about his future employment, although find­ings from the NTSB investiga­tion could determine whether he keeps his job. 
A similar derailment occurred on the same stretch of track in 2003, injuring about 45 people. A prelimi­nary NTSB report found that the train was going almost 70 mph at the location where it was supposed to switch from one track to the other. 
Pardonnet said the two 

derailments may have been just a coincidence. "I don't think it's anything specific to· this area, but it's still under investigation," she said. 
Jane Cuthbert, 22, of Bourbonnais, died on the train, Pardonnet said. A 30­year-old woman died at a hospital. 
They were the first people killed in a Metra derailment since it took over commuter rail services in the region in 1984. 
The injured passengers were taken to 15 hospitals and 15 of them remained hospitalized Sunday, Pardonnet said. She did not have information on their conditions. 
Train service on the Rock Island District Line resumed about four hours after the derailment, and the cleanup from the accident could cause short delays during Monday's commute, Pardonnet said. 



come ma waves 

... we have. GE's LM2500 marine gas turbines power cruise ships by using a highly efficient combustion process and quality fuel that emits nearly 67 percent less nitrogen oxide than average passenger vessels. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to launch your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance, manufacturing, sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology. 
Nancy Martin from GE's Global Research Center will talk about the latest technology being developed at GE! 
Monday Sept 19th 7:30pm 117 DeBartolo 



ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com/notredame 
a.'? equa} opp o;tu.'?ity em pJoy e;
• 

A diversified technology, financial serl(ices. media
imagination at work company. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday,September 19, 2005 Page 11
.The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

NOTRE DAME FORUM 

Thursday, September 22 @ JACC, 2-4 p.m. 
CONVOCATION 

Friday, September 23 @ JACC, 3-4:30 p.m. 
POST-INAUGURAL RECEPTION 

Friday, September 23 @the Reflecting Pool ofthe Theodore M. Hesburgh Library immediately following the Convocation 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, September 19, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

The battle against trivia 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIHEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR:. Sarah Vabulas Ass1; MANAGING EDITOR: He~ther Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike GilJoon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
AOVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63!-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. 1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Ma.ry's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinim1s through letters is encouraged. Leuers to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
~c Ob~>t"rvcr (US['\ 5'J9l-4U00) 1, published Munday thrvugh Friday cxc~p1 during exam and \<l~.tdon pcriuW. A ~~~~ripwm to The: Ob-.erv~r ~ $100 for nne acackmic ycato $"55 t(,tml.::scmcsr~~:r. 
The l 1h!M:rvcr 4 published ar: POSTMASTER 024 South Dinin~ H.t.ll .Send 11.ddrttSs CMtecriou.'! ro; Nom" J>.unc, IN 465'56-0779 ThcOh.o;em:r {\:riodic..ll pvstagc pJid at Norte D.unc 1~0. Bvx 779 .Uld dddittun.1l mailing: otficd. 02-i Somh Dini11M Hall 
Nom: Dame. IN 1!\5"56-0n9 
The Ob~crvcr is .1 mcmher ofthe ~~rn.:io~tcd Vt$. All n:product ion rlglm .1rc: reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Nicole Zook Bobby Griffin Kelly Meehan Ken Fowler 
Peter Ninneman Anna Fricano Viewpoint Scene Joey King Molly Griffin 
Graphics Illustrator Graham Ebetsch Graham Ebetsch 

Quick, name for me all the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, including their colors and weapons of choice. Now, tell me how to get to the warp zone on the first level of Super Mario. And finally, be a pal and sing the theme lyrics for the Nickelodeon classic, "Salute Your Shorts." In fact, I'll help you out by starting it off. "We run, we jump, we swim and play ... " You can take it from here. 
Everybody done? Good. I'm assuming that most of you could successfully answer two, if not all three of those ques­tions. Now here's one more question: When has that information ever proved beneficial to you? That one is a little tougher to answer. 
Here at Notre Dame, we pride our­selves on the top-notch education avail­able to students. However, how much of that information is getting into our heads? They say that the human brain only uses 10 percent of its ability, but as far as I'm concerned, upwards of nine percent of that is taken up by useless trivia factoids. 
We've all been in this situation: You're sitting in Stepan Center with 250 of your closest friends, taking a big departmental exam in Calculus, Biology, Accounting, whatever. You've signed the Honor Code and filled out your Scantron, and now it's time to get to work on the exam that kept you up all night. As you work through the test 
' once, you come back to find a few ques­tions left blank. I can guarantee that 

Peter Schroeder 
l-till Write for Food 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
How many inaugural events are you planning to attend? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
some of those questions are ones that you could have sworn you knew, but cannot remember no matter how hard you try. You recall seeing it in the text­book last night while piping Starbucks in via IV, but the information is nowhere to be found. However, while crammed in your little desk in the Stepan Center, you could rattle off all the Ben Folds Five albums in chrono­logical order or name who has won the Heisman Trophy the last 5 years. I highly doubt any of that information is required on the exam, unless you hap­pen to be taking "Piano Rock & College Football Stars 101," but I've heard that's impossible to DAHT into. 
These little tidbits of information that serve no applicable purpose latch onto chunks of your brain and never let go, whereas things like Organic Chemistry mechanisms or proper Accounting pro­cedures can't wait to leak out y.our ears. 
It's almost as if quotes from "The Simpsons" are brain bullies, taking up all the space for themselves and merci­lessly giving noogies and swirlies to Calculus derivatives until they can't take it anymore and flee right before your exam. 
However, trivia's stranglehold on our cerebellum doesn't end with things we should learn in the classroom, they also push out all sorts of useful life lessons. For example, I don't know how to change the oil in a car. I've been taught how to do it several times. But appar­ently my brain is the Bermuda Triangle of Useful Information, and as soon as I learn it, the information disappears never to be seen again. 
Conversely, I can state for you right now the top speed of the peregrine fal­con, the Earth's fastest creature. For those of you wondering, it's 120 miles 
GOVERNMENT IS11-IE PROBIDvt 
NOT THE 
SOLUTIO"N 
Submit aLetter to tbe Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
per hour. Now tlw question is: What sit­uation will come up first, needing to know how to change the oil, or some­one demanding the maximum speed of the Earth's fastest animal? Unless I'm kidnapped by a crazed ornithologist and I have to prove my worth lest he sic his trained squad of attack flamingos on me, my money's on needing to change the oil first. 
What can be done to light this trivial menaee? I believe that the most effec­tive way of ensuring that useful infor­mation stays in our heads would be to disguise it as trivia in the media. During Sportscenter, the "Did You Know?" sec­tion would be less about obscure bat­ting average anomalies, and.more along the lines of, "Did you know, pouring a Coke down a clogged drain is an effee­tive remedy, as the carbonic acid cats away at the clog? Booyah!" We'd watch shows on Vlll like "I Love Properly Filling Out Tax Rf~turns!" or shows on Comedy Central like "Chapelle Shows You How to Cook a Quiche." 
Of course, this oecurrence is highly unlikely. As such, we must be proactive in taking a stand against the mental monarchy of factoids. After serious eon­sideration, I believe I've put together a strategy that could work for everybody. You would just have to ... uh ... hold on ... Leonardo was blue and had a sword, Donatello was purple and had a bo staff, Michaelangelo was orange and had nunchaku and Raphael was red and had sais. Crap. 
Peter Schroeder is a senior English major. His favorite word is "ennui." He can be contacted at pschroed@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
GOVERNMENT IS THE PROBLEM 
AND THE 
SOLUTION.' 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Intellect annuls fate. So far as a man thinks, he is free." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson American essayist 




THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, September 19, 2005 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
U-WIRE 
Loss of newspapers could endanger intelligence 
You are holding history in your hands. I don't moan that metaphorically -I'm talking about the actual newspaper itsnlf. You sne, newspapor readership is declining. I'm serious. Look around right now. I low many other pnople. besides you, Jennifer arn roading a news­Bhargava papnr'! 
Nowspapnrs guided University of th11 world through Missouri global wars, eleetions Kansas City of public officials, and University assassinations of pub­News lie oflkials. They wnrn an avenun in which the public could nxpress their opinion and voiee thnir concerns. Now the golden years of t.lw 1111wspaper industry are quickly evaporating. People -ospecially college students-see newspapers as techno­
logical dinosaurs in a digital age. Research by Leo W. Jeffries and David 
J. Atkin, both communication professors at Cleveland State University, indicates 89 percent or college students do not read the newspaper at all. 
As young adults, we hold the future in our hands. Ifwe continue ignoring the newspaper as a viable media outlet, what will become of it? What will beeome of us? 
Well, the first question is simple. 
The newspaper industry is a business -it needs money to function. If nobody reads newspapers, nobody will read the advertisements in them. Therefore, if advertisers pull out, newspapers will not have sul'ficient funding and cease to exist. 
What happens to readers' intellects is a much more complex question. 
In order to understand it, we must look at a world without newspapers. Where would we get our news? Television? 
Four months of experience as a news intern at a local television station taught 
. me that television news provides only a glimpse of reality. Thirty-second voice­overs and sound-bites cannot completely educate people about world, national, or even local events. Pretty -or gruesome -shots ("if it bleeds, it leads") do not provide in-depth coverage or important events. 
Plus, everyone's definition of television news varies. I'm sure many people in the world think they're keeping up with international affairs with their nightly dose of "Inside Edition." 
I feel if newspapers cannot survive, people will become ignorant about the 
world beeausn they will not be exposnd to in-depth coverage of outside informa­
tion. 

How do we prevent the world from such stupidity? 
Pick up copies of The Kansas City Star, The New York Times or the Wall Street Journal. Give your copy of this finn stu­dent newspaper to a friend when you're finished. Promote the written word on its endless sheets or recycled paper. 
Otherwise, your intelligonen could bo history as well. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 17 issue of'/1ze University News, the daily publication at the l lniversity <~{ Missouri Kansas City. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and nol necessarily those of The Obsernm: 
Gloating 

shameful 
I onco watchod as athh1tos from an game's ilnal score. I might respectfully in-stato rival university (one that disagree with Notre Dame President llnivnrsity of Notre Dame football Father John Jenkins, however, in the playnrs rncontly tangled with) simu­inscrutability of God's wisdom with latn dnfecation on tho Spartan S locat­regard to such a natural disaster, ed mid-court in our basketball arena because within this calamity clearly at Miehigan Stahl University, after a there is providence. It brought clarity sound defoat of our men's team. I to the depth rif raeism and the vowed thnn that I would never toler­extremes of poverty and wealth in our ate such bohavior on the part of our nation, and showed us that not only own student-athletes. should we open our wallets to aid the 
Aceordingly, I apologizo on behalf of victims but open our hearts to end tho Michigan State University commu­these painfully lingering, intolerable nity to tho Notro Dame community societal illnesses. Perhaps and fans for tlw !lag-planting ineident Katrina offers a metaphor for aftnr thn football gamn last Saturday. washing them away so that lntolnrant gloating and chest-beating we might build a more enlohration are a true defeat. not a just and equitable soci­victory. Wn Spartans know well the ety. fooling of disappointment after heart­brnaking athlntic events, and never Edward D. Walker, should wo forco athletic opponents to PhD fo111 it any morn acutely. Professor 
I write, too, to expross admiration to Department of tho Notre Dame community for its Microbiology and thoughtful and prayerful response, on Molecular Genetics national tolevision, to the Hurricane Michigan State Katrina disaster. This was a clear vie­University tory for Notre Dame, regardless of the Sept. 17 
Football and publicity 

Never believo those who would extorted from minimize tho importance of Notre the well-heeled. Damn football to your broadnr educa­Bravo! It even pro­tion. In fact, the moments just prior voked reflective to Saturday's gamn provided all of commentary from you with a vnry important lesson: the announcers! style is vastly more significant than Please note the key substance. lesson here. Style-the 


As has alrnady been widely image you present of your­rnrnarked. Notre Dame, in contrast to self to others-matters far most public and private universities more than substance-what you and all other Catholic institutions of actually believe and practice. Now higher oducation of which I am this lesson may not appear on a quiz, aware, refused to admit or assist but it may eventually get you that other schools' studnnts displaced by promotion to a bigger cubicle. So llurrieann Katrina. However, when it study hard! · c<unn to putting on a show for a national tnlnvision audience, Notre Troy Feay DamP performed supnrbly: a moment alumnus of silence, a trnaely prayer from the class of 1998, 2003 new presidnnt, a monetary collection Sept. 17 


Fan behavior unforgivable 
Recnnt complaints in The Observer approach our student seetion and gesturn about classless fan activity at football with his hands while facing Notm Dame games have raised awareness of this fans. Some may eall this waving, but we important issue in our student body. eall it ollimsivo. A good friend of ours suf­While we personally hope the recent let­fered tho afl'ront of sening tho Spartan ters to Viewpoint have eradicated class­'wave' to him. Should wn be expected to less fan activity at Notre Dame, the same toleratn this insult? Classless. result cannot be expected from Michigan Third, after the game an out-of-control State students. We were stunned by the Miehigan Statn fan walked up to our classless aetions of Michigan State fans at group of fi-iends. lie told us that we Saturday's game, and we write this letter played a good game. We all know what in the sincere hope that both schools may that really meant. Once again, classless. avoid similar incidents in the future. Finally (and this is the mal closer on the 
A number of disgusting and insulting deal) Michigan Stato def(mted us at home. occurrences happened to us between 2:30 We cannot believe that any team would and 7:00p.m., beginning with the half­be so ehrrngiously rude as to actually win time show. During their performance, the against the Irish in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Michigan State marching band Plenty of teams with hrrnat, friendly fans ended with Bon Jovi's 'Uvin' On (like Navy fbr example) have the common a Prayer.' After Frosh-0 and courtesy to lose to us when playing years of SYRs, this classic against us at home. While wn hold out hit song is a part of our hope that Miehigan State had improved school's heritage and it over our last few experiences with them nauseates us to hear at home, we were sadly disappointed. Get it appropriated by some class, Michigan State. 
another school. 
Classless. Jonathan Klingler Second, the Frank Laski Michigan State Chris Vierig Spartan mascot juniors had the unmiti­Keenan llall gated gall to Sept. 17 
Proud of 
players 
Notre Dame stadium with their heads held high. They 

suffered a big loss ·acknowledged us with the same rnspnct to Michigan State. I that we showed them. That's what I love think everyone in about those boys that make up our Notrn 
that stadium felt what Dame Football team -no matter what I felt today-heart­happens they appmr:iatn thoir fans and break. After an awful take the time to reeognizn them. Even defeat in overtime, I felt my when the Spartans f(lotball players flaggnd heart sink into the pit of my our lield. our boys hold their dihrnity. 
stomach with only upset and My heart died with them when they lost. despair. It hurt. It hurt like hell. But and my heart will live again whnn they despite my depression, I found a team that win. But because they ean lose with honor meant more than just the sport of f(JOtball. and pride, they are no longor boys -they Those boys gave it their all only to have it are men. Those men make up my f()()tball represented with a tally marked into the team. Those men will always bo ehampi­loss column. They have nothing to show cms. for the great pass completions for first downs, or the defensive plays to hold the Christine Herdman Spartans from those two yards they need­sophomore ed. Saim Mary's 
• And yet, those boys walked out of that Sept. 17 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Monday, September 19, 2005 
CONCERT REVIEW 

The way it is 
Bruce Hornsby impresses crowd with musical abilities 
Hornsby's musical brilliance. 
By PAT REIDY 

"Bruce's fingers seem to just dance Scene Writer 
across the keys to the music they're 
playing, a blend of beauty and energy 
that just leaves you in awe," Sorin 
Bruce Hornsby quickly won over his sophomore Rob O'Brien said. audience in the Leighton Concert Hall When asked to describe the opportu­at the DnBartolo Center for the nity to play in the new Leighton Performing Arts Friday night. Concert Hall, Hornsby said the venue 
After opening with two songs from measures up against the nation's best. his new album, "Halcyon Days," ''I've played at lots of places, niee Hornsby nonchalantly informed the full places too, mind you," he said. "This house of 900 that he "wanted to play a space is absolutely beautiful. It's as song that I wrote a little while ago with niee as Carnegie Hall in New York or a friend of mine from Texas, a song the Kimmel Center in Philadelphia." that sold a few records for the two of Hornsby took full advantage of his us." surroundings Friday night, reminding 
That friend was Don Henley; the his audience of where he's been and song was "The End of the Innocence." introdueing them to where he is now. 
Hornsby proceeded with a repertoire Less of a "rocker" than his days of old, of lively, humorous songs from Hornsby provided an evening that was "Halcyon Days," joking with the crowd musically therapeutic, peaceful and about life as a father and his relation­pleasant. That's not to say he put his ship with his son. crowd to sleep. 
"As I've gotten older, I've tried to "There's a differenee between a rock work more on my humor and less on eoneert and a show like tonight," my social commentary," Hornsby told O'Brien said. "You're not sitting in the The Observer during a sound-check. nosebleed section of a dirty arena 
His current efforts didn't stop struggling to distinguish music and Hornsby from bringing hi~ audience noise. An experienee like tonight back to the days of "Mandolin Rain" allows you to become one with the and title-track "The Way It Is," two top can be the best musician I can be if I you?" Hornsby said. "So how can you musie and allow it to speak to you, 20 songs from his continue along the same path be enjoying the show if you can't even wherever you're at. triple-platinum for my entire career." see me? Why don't you come "I was profoundly album. "/was profoundly Hornsby up here and moved by many of
"Bruce is 
Many fans in the moved by many of proved his tal­sit on stage his songs, even songs crowd hoped he ent as both a behind me, absolutely like 'The End of the
his songs.,, Bruce Hornsby 
would spend more performer and then you Inno<lence' that I've
Date: Friday, Sept. 16 amazing, just
time on his days of a musician near might be been listening to for­
Venue: DeBartolo Center for magical.''
old, especially those Rob O'Brien the conclusion able to see a ever."
the Performing Arts 

who followed his of the show. little more, When asked what
student 

two-year stint with After taking a right?" Susan Bigelow adviee he eould give the legendary rock number of W h i I e to up-and-coming
student 
band the Grateful requests intermittently during Hornsby was only addressing musicians and per-Dead, but Hornsby follows a different the early parts of the night -a tradi­one girl, several dozen con­formers at Notre philosophy with regard to his music. tion of Hornsby performances -certgoers anxious to be as close to Dame, Hornsby's words were simple 
"I try not to dwell in the past with my Hornsby invited those in the first few their musical idol as possible jumped but powerful. music," he said. "It's all about creating rows opposite him to sit on stage. on stage. more and changing. I don't feel that I "You can't really see over there, can Students reacted enthusiastically to Contact Pat Reidy at preidy@nd.edu 



Bruce Hornsby grew up in the tourist center of Williamsburgh, Va. He later attended the University of Miami and eventually went to the Berklee School of 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, September 19, 2005 BSERVER Michigan State 44, Notre Dame 41 (OT) 
Comeback cut short 
Irish erase 21-point deficit, but Spartans triumph on overtime option 

Jeff Samardzlja (83) and Maurice Stovall (21), above, elevated their games Saturday. Samardzija caught three touchdown passes, and Stovall had 176 yards receiving on a career, 487-yard day for Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn. But Michigan State dashed the hopes of Ambrose Wooden (22), above, and a roaring Irish comeback. 
By KEN FOWLER  to his running baek just before being hit by Irish linebaeker  yards and a career-high three touchdowns but was not eontent  not what we wanted coming into this game," Quinn said. "It all  tion he had in his earm1r day was swept away in defeat.  
Spons Writer  Brandon lloyte. Teague darted  with evaluating only his individual  comes down to wins and losses,  Michigan  State opened  the  
past the Irish secondary and high­ performance.  and today we couldn't pull it out at  game's seoring on il<> second drive  
Miehigan State running back  stPpped into the end zone, seeur­ "It kind of doesn't mean that  the end."  with a 20-yard touchdown pass  
.lason Teague lililed Notrn Damn's  ing the Spartans' fifth eonsecutive  much when you don't get a victo­ Michigan State extended its 7­ from Stanton that floated over  
hopes for a dramatic cornnback  win at Notre Dame Stadium.  ry," he said.  point halftime lead just 18 seconds  safety Tom Zbikowski's hoad and  
win Saturday when his overtime  Though Notre Dame seored  Michigan State took its largest  into  the  third  quarter when  landed in tim arms oi'Trannon.  
touchdown run lifted the Spartans  throe times in the final 17 minutes  lead of the game at 38-17 when  SirDarean Adams returned a  The Irish respond1HI  on  the  
(3-01 to a 44-41 vietory over the  of regulation to erase the 21-point  Stanton found wide receiver Matt  Quinn interception thirty yards for  ensuing possession, mixing short  
Irish (2-1) in Charlie Weis' first  dp,f'ieit, Weis said  Trannon  (five  a touchdown.  pa<>ses and inside runs en routn to  
hom11 game as lwad coach.  his toam should not  catches, 136 yards,  Notre Dame's defense stifl"ened  a 13-play, 70-yard drive. The only  
The 19-yard run, oil" an option  be  happy  about  "Just like there's  two touchdowns)  after allowing the long touchdown  long play during the sequence W<L'i  
pitch from Spartans quarterback llrPw Stanton. rapped a game in which the Irish li~ll behind 38-17  their porformance, whieh ineludcd 12 penalties for 92  team wins, I felt like this was a  for a 65-yard touchdown pass late in the third  pass to Trannon and forced Michigan State to try an unsuc­cessful 53-yard field goal with  Quinn's 18-yard tmwhdown strik11 over the middle to Samardzija. Stanton and tlw Spartans  
with 5:07 remaining in the third  yards.  team loss."  quarter.  13:46 left in the li1urth quarter.  regained the lead throe minutes  
quarter. Notrn Damn quarterback  "I told thPm that  Quinn respondod  "I think we stopped up when it  later with an 11-yard scoring pass  
Brady ()uinn tunwd in a meord­set.ting, 487 -yard, live-touchdown IH~rformance while leading the  you don't get any mmlals for trying," ho said. "I told  Charlie Weis Irish coach  with a near-llaw­lnss, nine-play, 80­yard drive that took  was needPd," lloyte said. The Irish took over on ol1fmse when kicker .John Goss' attempt  to Kellen Davis. The Irish took their only lead in m~-,rulation, 17-14, when <)uinn hit  
Irish hack to tin the score at 38  them  not  to  feel  just  3:44.  Quinn  fell short and right. and they wast­ Samardzija for a  :n -yard touch­ 
with 2::~ I left in regulation, lim~­ good about them- was 8-for-8 for 93  ed  no time cutting the lead to  down pass with 8:43 left in tlw  
ing overtime.  selves when thoy came back and  yards on the possession, induding  seven. On 3rd-and-1 0 from the  first half. Tho play occutTed just  
But Michigan Stat11 quarterback  tied the game back when they're  a 7 -yard touchdown p<L'>S to run­ Notre Dame 3(J, Quinn found  1:06 into the Irish drive, which  
Ilmw Stanton had suc1~nss of his  down three scorns.  ning back Darius Walker that cut  Maurice Stovall for a 50-yard  started when Notn~ Danw tight  
own. complnting I (,-of-27 passns  ".Just like them's team wins, I  the lead to 14.  reception down the middle to the  end .John Carlson li1rmd Spartan  
for :~27 yards and rushing for  li1lt like this wa<> a team loss."  "At the end, it was a do-or-die  Spartan 14.  return specialist Kyle Brown to  
another 28.  lloyto said the Irish players felt  situation,"  Quinn  said.  "We  Two plays later, Quinn again  fumble on the 32 and Chinedurn  
Stanton's thnmt to run, which Notw Damn containml throughout  the same way their coach did. "Thorn's dofinitnly nothing to be  shouldn't have to have our backs up against the walls to perform  found the 6-foot-5 senior lin· a 7­yard score.  Ndukwn dove on the ball at the Michigan State :H.  
thn allnrnoon. rwwrthnlnss lnd to  happy about," ho said. "I think  like that."  "Maurice  obviously  played  Irish kicker ILl. Fitzpatrick  
tlw Spartans' hackhnmking ovnr­ thorn was a colloctive eonsonsus  Quinn completed 33-of-60 pass  well," Quinn said. "!Throwing to  nailed a 48-yard field goal on t.lw  
timn scorn.  throughout the toam of pain."  attempts for a personal best 487  Stovall! was part of what we  prm~eding possnssion.  
On first and  I:i from tlw Notro  Irish  wide  receiver  .Jnf'f  yards and a school-record live  wantnd to try to do coming into  Stanton rndaimed tlw lead for  
Damn  19-yard linn, aftnr thn  Samardzija tied the game with a  touchdown passes, but he was  this the game with his size and  the Spartans just bdore tlw half  
Spartans dnfnns11  hnld  Notrn  four-yard touchdown reception  upsl1t with the ollimso's shaky play  ability."  with a 3-yard touchdown run.  
llanw to a lidd goal in tlw opnn­ from Quinn late in the fourth  in the first thirty minutes.  Stovall had a career-best 176  
ing ovnrtinw possnssion, Stanton  quartor. Samardzija finishod the  "Especially the way we played  yards on night catdws, but, like  Contact Ken Fowler at  
rolled right and dnliv1~n·d the hall  game with six catches for 9(,  in the first half, it was just really  Samardzija, he said any satisfac­ kfowler1@nd.edu  

-·--------:---=-::----::--==================================================================================--==-=-=====--=-=--=--=== 
play of the game
stat of the game
player of the game 

quote of the game 
Jason Teague's touchdown run
92
Brady Quinn 

"''m never going to be content 
In a game ofbig plays, Teague:<; 19­
nw Irish quarterback set a school 
with a comeback

yard score offan option pitch from 
remrd with jive touchdown passes. 
Number of yards Notre Dame 
where you end up losing. " 
quarterback Drew Stanton handed
surrendered on I 2 penalties.
/lis 487 yards and 33 completions on 
the win to Michigan State. 
6o attempts kept Notre /Jame in the 
Charlie Wels 
Irish coach
game until the end. 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 19, 2005 
report card 


TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Michigan State quarterback Drew Stanton, left, evades the grasp of Notre Dame linebacker Corey Mays. Stanton was only sacked once and his mobility caused problems for the Irish as he rushed for 28 yards and a score. The Spartan signal-caller also made plays with his arm, throwing for 327 yards and three touchdowns. 
Difficult to forget this one 
A­
C+ A 8­

C 
throw for passes of 65, 45 and 34 
+yards. Zbikowski forced a fumble while 
Wooden knocked down two passes and Ndukwe recorded an interception. 
B 
special teams: Fitzpatrick kicked a 48-yard 
+ 
field goal in the first half but missed 
another 48-yarder before half. But his 44-yard boot in OT gave the Irish a shot. 
coaching: John L. Smith had the Spartans 
8-
ready to play and not intimidated by the 
Irish. WeL<>' squad had 12 penalties that 
dampened the excitement of a dramatic attempt at a comeback win. 
2.92 
overall: The Irish showed heart by mming back from 21 down. But they shouldn't have let Michigan State grab that lead in Notre Dame Stadium. 
adding up the nun1bers 

Number of touchdown passes thrown by 
5 

Brady Quinn-a Notre Dame record. 
3 
Touchdown receptions for junior wide receiver Jeff Samardzija, a career high that ties the Notre Dame 
record with seven former players. 

The last year an interception was 
2 0 0 3 

returned for a touchdown against the Irish, on Nov. 9 against Florida State. 
12 
Games won in Notre Dame Stadium by the Spartans -the most of any opponent. 

Consecutive games in which Darius Walker has 
3 

rushed for more than 100 yards. 
6 
Third down conversions, out of 18, for the Irish. 
The Spartans converted 3 of 12. 

Total penalty yards in Saturday's game, 
178 

with 92 surrendered by the Irish. 
487 
Passing yards for Quinn -second all time and the most since Joe Theismann passed for 519 against USC in 1970. 
quarterbacks: Quinn set a Notre Dame single-game mark with five touchdown passes. llis 487 yards were a career high and his ability to hit Stovall and Samardzija kept MSU on its heels. 
running backs: Walker had a personal­best 116 yards and caught a scoring pass. However, he wasn't able to break many long runs and Schwapp's fumble on the goal line was costly. 
receivers: Stovall finally broke out with a huge game and Samardzija's three touchdowns kept the comeback alive. Fasano had seven catches and Shelton filled in well for the injured McKnight. 
offensive line: Quinn was sacked three times and the rushing game never fully blossomed. Still, the line held its ground enough to give Quinn time to hit pick apart the Spartan secondary. 
defensive line: The Spartans only tallied 161 rushing yards and Abiamiri had two tackles for loss, one forced fumble and a quarterback hurry. But Stanton had time in the pocket to make plays. 
linebackers: Crum Jr. was all over the field, making seven tackles. Hoyte led the team with eight tackles, two tor a loss, and Mays hurried Stanton twice while also recovering a fumble. 
defensive backs: The unit let Stanton 

Is it over? Are you finished Brady Quinn? Done yet Drew Stanton? 
The game ended Saturday, but fans who saw it will replay the over­time thriller in their minds -and their VCR's -• 
for years to come. 

Never mind which team you were pulling for during Michigan State's 44-41 win over Notre Dame Saturday, 


the performance  Mike Gilloon  
by these two  
quarterbacks and their teams  Sports Editor  
was worthy of  
applause.  

Don't worry about Michigan State coming in and spoiling the Irish vic­tory party for a record fifth consecu­tive time. Don't focus on Jason Teague's 19-yard scamper that offi­cially ended the marathon game. 
The ushers should have charged extra money from fans as they shuf­fled out of the Stadium. Whatever they paid for their ticket, it wasn't enough to deserve this type of enter­tainment. 
This was a game during which you couldn't use the bathroom without hearing another record shatter on the torn-up turf of Notre Dame Stadium. 
It was a spectacular offensive dis­play, with enough yards collected to fill the Goodyear blimp hovering overhead. 
For Notre Dame, this was much more than another frustrating loss to a rival. In recent years, the Irish deserved their defeats to Michigan, Purdue, Michigan State, etc. When they got down, they had no chance of coming back. 
But Saturday was different. The Irish bared their teeth, showed a lit­tle fight and scraped together a comeback created for Saturday afternoons in the fall. 
The game, as cliche as it may sound, could have gone either way. Neither team deserved to win, but neither deserved to lose. 
Notre Dame, however, is disap­pointed in its loss. Twelve penalties for 92 yards-almost as much as the Irish rushing total -take some of the optimism out of the team's performance. Not many people were surprised at Weis' ability to immedi­ately upgrade the Irish offensive production so soon. But the lack 

The Irish bared their 
of concentration Notre Dame and execution dis­teeth, showed a little Stadium before played in the false Quinn's live 
fight and scraped
starts and holding touchdown pass­
together a comeback
calls showed Weis ing clinic is for­still has plenty of created for Saturday gotten. With that work ahead of single-game
afternoons in the fall. 
him. 

Michigan State had its own issues. At times, Quinn made the Spartan secondary look as soft as cheese­cake. If the defense can somehow become even half as good as the offense, the Spartans will be the sur­prise of the Big Ten. 
But save the criticism and finger­pointing for the film session. Appreciate one of the best college football games that will be played all season. Remember the players who stole the show. 
Exhibit A: Drew Stanton. 
Stanton is a taller Doug Flutie ­mobile, accurately-armed and blessed with a knack for winning. The Spartans could have cleared their dishes and left the table after the Irish rallied back from a three­touchdown deficit. In the fourth quarter, as well as Quinn and the Notre Dame offense performed, it seemed all but certain the Irish would scrape together the win. 
But here came Stanton, scram­bling to the Spartans' rescue. He calmly handled the final few snaps with his team's back to the wall to run out the clock on regulation. 
After the Irish field goal in over­time, Stanton smelled victory. His pitch to Jason Teague, right under the eye of the Notre Dame student body, was the final slug in a game of punches. 
But which team threw that final punch seems unimportant. There will be a Jumbotron in 
record, Quinn 
finally has some­

thing at Notre Dame that's all his. 
At a position of names ­Montana, Theismann, Iluarte, Bertelli, Clements, Lujack, Mirer, Rice -Quinn now stands out. He lacks a Ileisman Trophy and a national title, but at the very least his performance Saturday gives him his own little place in Irish history. 
It was just another bronze per­formance in a game the 80,795 fans in attendance were lucky to witness. 
Just hope you saved your ticket stub. 
The opinions in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 
Monday, September 19, 2005 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Stovall finally showing potential 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 
A loss always loaves a bad taste. But wlwn individuals aeross tho board have rarnnr pnrforrnanc~os, a loss is oven hard­or to swallow. 
Mauric~n Stovall found hirnsnlf in this situation Saturday as the scmior rnceiver caught eight passns for 17(, yards and a touchdown in a draining defeat to Mkhigan Statn. 
"It gots swept away rnal had," Stovall said of his satisfaction with his carenr pnrli1rnHLnee. "It doc~sn't n~ally matter if I had a big gamn or not. if wn eamn out with a loss ... I don't roally think that individual statistics stand out when you havn a loss." 
Stovall postc•d nino rnenptions for 171 yards against Purdun in 2003 in his prn­vious bost ganw. 
Wide rcH~nivnr Hhnma McKnight stood on tlw sidc~linns Saturday in no pads with a log injury, so the remaining Irish roce~ivors worn forend to stop up as the running gamo strugglc~d. 
"We know IUwma wasn't going to play all week," Stovall said. "At tho beginning of tho wonk I said. and we said as a team, 'We~ havo n~enivnrs on tho depth ehart that ean stc~p up and make plays' ... Wlwthnr llhmna was hen~ or not, we did­n't usn that as a faetor." 
Tlw offnnsivn sehnmn against thn :{:;{() remaining in the lirst half. The Irish 2005, Stovall only had four catehos for 44 Spartans callnd for rnenivnrs to make were l'orr.nd to punt two plays latHr. yards and no touchdowns. plays downliold and strnteh tho Michigan "It was a lot of physical hand lighting But he showed against the Spartans he Statn dnfnnsn. <)uartorbaek Brady Quinn on the deep ball," Stovall said. "I guess I has the ability to be one or the top players anticipated Stovall's touches to increase did push oil' if the ref' said that. I But! it in a deep receiving unit. Jefl' Samardzija significantly going into tho game. was a big factor. It kind of made a big had three touchdowns against the 
"We tried to get him the ball," Quinn chango in the game." Spartans, and Matt Shelton is a proven said. "Our oiTe~nsn had sonw big plays Stovall was a highly-touted reeruit com­downl'ield threat. But with McKnight's and. it was orw of tho things we wantod ing out of Archbishop Carroll lligh Sehool status questionable, Stovall will nend to to do was get him involved in the game in in Philadelphia, Pa. four years ago. maintain his high level of play. a big way." Before this season. he had made 11 Now, he looks forward to next wnnk 
Stovall was a favorite target for Quinn starts. llis lirst career start was also a against Washington and getting a win all aftnrnoon, and his night r.atehes led home-opener that went to overtime, a along with his catches. tlw tnarn. throe-catch, 24 yard performancH against "I think it's mostly leading by example, 
Standing at 6-foot-5 with a proven leap­Washington State in 2003. approaching the week as if we won," he ing ability, Stovall is able to exploit small­lie was expnctnd to be a main target of' said. "IWe'rn) putting it behind us, focus­or defensive barks, espneially in one-on­the Irish oflfmse going into his junior sea­ing on Washington and not getting down one matehups. Unfortunately for the son in 2004. But he only managed 313 about ourselves." Irish. the aggrnssive receiver was called yards on 21 r.atehes, including one touch­for pass interference that nullified a deep down. Contact Kate Gales at rnenption with tho scornd tied at 17 with Even through the first two games of kgales@nd.edu 

Quinn passes Theismann with scores 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Wrirer 
Brady Quinn set a slew of rneords in tho loss to Mic:higan State~ Saturday, inducting break­ing tho Notre Damn singln-game touchdown pass tl!tal with live. 
That propnllml him to third place~ on tho all-time carnnr list at Notre Dame~ witl1 35 smring tossns, passing .Joe Theismann (:~ 1) and .Jarious .Jackson (34) in tim proeoss. 
lin also rnadwd the 400-com­pletion platoau exactly and bm~arno tho only player in Notro Damn history to have two 400­plus yard passing performancos. 
<)uinn bee~ame only the lilllrth Irish signal-caller to surpass 5,000 passing yards in his earcwr, joining Hon Powlus, Stev11 Bnuerlnin and Rick Mirnr. 
Quinn, however, was not li1cusnd on his individual accom­plishnwnt'i. 
"Tiw final statistics may ... look good on paper," he said, "but especially the way we play11d in tho first hall', it was rnally not what WP wanted mm­ing into this gamo." 
llis 487 passing yards were thn most by anyone in the histo­ry of Notre Dame Stadium, and his 60 pass attmnpts and :n completions were individual c:arner highs. 
Notre Dame receiver Jeff Smnardzija eaught thren touch­down passes Saturday, tying a sehool remrd. 
lie is the first to accomplish the leat sinee Tom Gatnwood in 1970. It was also the lirst time sincn 1998 that an Irish receiver caught touchdowns in three consecutive games. 
Penalties punishing 

The Irish eornmittnd 12 penal­ties for 92 yards in the game, all during rngulation. llnad coach Charlie Weis addressed the penalties with visible frustration. 
"Wfl had too many mistakes oll'ensively, defensively, special teams -all across thP board," Weissaid. 
"And I'm never going to be eontnnt with a comeback when you end up losing ... You can't just accept being in a game that's dose and end up losing it. It's just not okay." 
1,000 yard man 

Darius Walker broke 1,000 yards for his career in regular­season play and set an individ­ual earner high in single-game rushing yards with 116. lie has rushed for 100 yards in each game this season. 
I lis prnvious high was in last year's home opener against Michigan, when he rushed for 115 yards on 31 carries. 
Fasano nabs 60th 
Anthony Fasano passed Mark Bavaro and Tony Hunter for limrth plaee on the school's all­time receptions list for tight ends. His seven eatehes against Michigan State Ul'ted his career total to 60, five more than Bavaro and Hunter and two fewer than Derek Brown and Dean Masztak. 
Big boot 
Irish kicker ILl. Fitzpatrick connected on field goals of' 48 and 44 yards. The 48-yard kick was the second longest field goal of' his career and the longest since hitting from 50 yards at Syracuse in 2003. 
One home game, one loss 
Weis and Lou Holtz are the only eoaehes sinee World War II to lose their first home game as head coach for Notre Dame. 
Weis said in his post game comments that he was not dis­tracted about the long-term ramifieations of the contest prior to playing. 
"When I walked out [of the tunnel! to get ready for that game, the only thing I was wor­rying about was that game," Weis said. "I would have liked to have been able to walk off the field victorious, but we didn't. And I'm part of' the reason we didn't." 
Thriving on fourth down 
Notre Dame converted three offour fourth downs, including a 4th-and-15 from the Michigan State 37-yard line. Quinn hit Maurice Stovall for a 17-yard gain on the play. The only failed limrth down was a carry for no gain by freshman fullback Asaph Schwapp on 4th-and-1 with seven minutes remaining in the fourth quarter. 
Weis said the failed conversion was the result of' a mi<>communi­cation. 
"We had a mental error on the play which I'll take responsi­bility for," he said. "If you would have seen what I saw. you would have thought it would it was going to be a touchdown before the ball was snapped. But it's my fault because I didn't get it communicated." 
Captains 

The Irish captains for the game were Quinn on oll'ense, Brandon Boyte on defense and Tom Zbikowski on special teams. 
Coin flip 

Notre Dame won the toss in overtime and elected to play to the north end of the stadium, according to UND.com. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
•

scoring SUllllllary 
1st 2nd :lrd 4th OT Total 

Michigan St.  14  10  14  0  6  44  
Notre Dame  7  10  7  14  3  41  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 0, Michigan State 7 
Matt Trannon 20-yard reception from Drew Stanton with 11:38 remaining. (Goss kick) Drive: 4 plays, 70 yards, 1:55 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7. Michigan State 7 
Jell Samardzija 18-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 5:14 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 13 plays, 70 yards, 6:24 elapsed 
Notrl' Dame 7. Mil~higan State 14 
Kellen Davis 11-yard reception from Drew Stanton with 2:01 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 67 yards, 3:13 elapsed 
sm~ond quarter 
Notre Dame 10, Michigan State 14 
OJ Fitzpatrick 48-yard field goal with 9:49 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 37 yards, 3:09 elapsed 
Notre Ilame 17. Michigan State 14 Jell Samardzija 31-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 8:43 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 3plays, 34 yards, 1:06 elapsed 
Notn• Dame 17. Michigan Statn 17 John Goss 21-yard field goal with 5:26 remain­Ing. Drive: 8 plays, 76 yards 3:17 elapsed 
Notn~ Danw 17, Michigan Statl~ 24 Drew Stanton 3-yard rush with 00:27 remain­ing. (Goss kick). Drive: 6 plays, 71 yards, 00:46 elapsed 
Third quarter Notrl' Dame 17. Michigan Stat!' :31 SirDarean Adams 30-yard interception return with 14:42 remaining. (Goss kick) Drive: 2 plays, 0 yards, 00:18 elapsed Notn1 Dame 17, Miehigan State~ 3S Matt Trannon 65-yard reception from Drew Stanton with 5:07 remaining. (Goss kick) Drive: 4 plays, 90 yards, 1:27 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24. Michigan State 3S 
Darius Walker 6-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 1:23 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 9 plays, 80 yards, 3:44 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 31, Michigan State :JS Maurice Stovall 7-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 12:29 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 5 plays, 64 yards, 1:17 elapsed 
Notr!' Dame 3S, Michigan State 3S 
Jeff Samardzija 4-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 2:31 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 8 plays, 57 yards, 2:35 elapsed 
Overtime Notre Dame 41, Michigan State :lS 
D.J. Fitzpatrick 44-yard field goal. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 4 plays, 0 yards 
Notrn Dame 41, Michigan Statn 44 Jason Teague 19-yard run. Drive: 2 plays, 25 yards 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

return yards ... 

time of possession 
s 

38-107 36-161 33-60-1 16-27-1 5-170 5-213 1-1 4-2 12-92 9-85 31 18 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 19, 2005 

Mkhigan State put Notre Dame away in overtime, and the Spartans 
managed to win in Notre Dame Stadium for the fil'th straight time. Brady Quinn's school-record five touchdown passes were almost enough to lead the Irish back from a 21-point deficit. But, without a consistent rushing game, Notre Dame could not control the contest. Ninety-two yards of penalties and Spartans quarterback Drew Stanton prevented the 
comeback attempt in Charlie Weis' first horne game as head coach. D.J. Fitzpatrick's field goal wasn't enough in overtime as Michigan State running back Ja<>on Teague took the option pitch and ran down the right sideline and into the end zone to spoil the day for Notre Dame . 
.... 



Brady Quinn eyes a receiver, top left. Chinedum Ndukwe (18) and Corey Mays (46) close in on Michigan State running back Jehuu Caulcrick, top right. Jeff Samardzija breaks a Spartan tackle, bottom right. Mays and Victor Abiamiri almost record a safety, bottom left, and Darius Walker dives into the end zone for a touchdown. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, September 19, 2005 
page 15 
FTT department stages first reunion 
Alumni share experiences in entertainment industry 


Students gather Friday to watch an event In the Browning Cinema. The activities were a chance for alumni to reconnect with other grads and for current students to make contacts. 
Bill Carter, author of "The Late Shift," a book about late-night talk shows, speaks at an FTT reunion panel Thursday. 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
A"i't:nlt Scene Editor 
Notrn Danw alumni who work in the t•ntprtainmnnt industry had a homecom­ing this wnnknnd, returning from llollywood and otlwr world media cen­tl'rs to 1~ampus for tlw Film, Tolnvision and Theat.m Alumni Hmmion. 
Tlu~ nvnnt was organiznd largPiy by Ted MandPII, a professor in the FTT dnpartnwn t. Thn dneision to host tho rmmion this ynar was basnd on timing and thP ovPrwlwlming int.nrnst of past graduatl's, lw said. 
"Thorn arn so many pnopln in the industry from Not.rn Damn, but they rwvnr eonw togntlwr," Mandnll said. "Hnunions are usually based on what yl'ar you graduatnd." 
Among tlw tWPnts hosted during the Wtwknnd was the Alumni Film Fnst, whirh f'eaturt\d fivn short films ernatcd hy Notrn Damn graduates, and a screen­ing of "Tlw Late Shift," a film by 1971 alumnus Bill Cartor, who is now thn tel­twision writer for Thn New York Times. 
Thn Alumni Hmmion was not just held for thn rnturning graduatns but also for students, who got a ehanee to meet and talk to thn men and women in the busi­nnss. It allowed students an opportunity to lnarn firsthand the manner in which tlw industry opnrates. 
Mandell was espocially impressed wil.h thn enthusiasm of the returning graduatos. 
"In the entnrtainment industry, it's all about eomwctions," Mandell said. "The alums havn rnally reached out to the studnnts with that, networking and get­ting to know eaeh other." 
Thn dnpartmnnt hosted a series of tlwmed pannls and workshops on Friday. These pannls and workshops touehnd on a wide variety of topics, including Urn development of program­ming in thn industry, nthies in broadcast journalism, writing, prod udng and edit­ing. Tlwatnr workshops inducted panels about acting, producing and the sodetal roln of theater. 
Perhaps most surprising was the low numlw.r of alums who were majors in FTT while nnroliNI at the University. lnstnad. they camn from a wide variety of disciplirws, including business and J·:nglish. 
The Fil111, Television and Theatre 
major has not always been in existence in its current form, but the Alumni Heunion aptly demonstrated that back­ground and major do not dictate success in the entertainment industry, as many of the alums combined the skills learned at Notre Dame in their careers. 
"If' you can think, talk and write, then there's a job for you," said John Walker, a 1978 graduate from the English dnpartment. 
Walker began a career in theater before switching to film and is currently a producer for Pixar, where he pro­duced "The Incredibles." He stressed thn importance of the arts and was nspeeially impressed with the school's d!~dication to film, television and the­ater. 
"Notre Dame has certainly demon­strated its support of the arts," he said. "It's always been a big commitment here, but they didn't have the where­withal that they do now." 
The alumni all came from a wide vari­ety of careers and backgrounds. Many of them work right in the hnart of the industry, such as Nate Haekiewicz, a 1998 graduate from the Mendoza College of Businnss. Hackiewicz is now a Manager in Technology for IIBO and works with the Sales Marketing Group and the Finance Group there. 
There were also many alumni present who work in fields that are not directly involved in f'ilm, television or theater but still utilize the skills learned in the department. Jeffrey Spoonhower, a 1999 graduate, worked for EA Sports doing video game character animation before moving to Volition Studios. 
"Film is what I was really interested in," Spoonhower said. 
lie now animates cut-scenes for video games, which allows him to explore more einematic territory. 
"It's like writing and directing your own mini-movie," he said. 
One major difference for returning alumni is the Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts, which opened formally last fall. The advent of the DPAC was one of the inspirations for the reunion, said Mandell, who noted that it gave the department the space and resources to host such a large-scale gathnring. 
The alumni wern uniformly impressed with the building, and all agreed it would help emphasize Notre Dame's support of thn. arts. Beforn thn !>PAC opened, th!~ FTT department had no for­mal housing and was thus scattered throughout the campus. 
Classes were held in DeBartolo or O'Shaughnes·sny, profnssors' ol'f'icns were in Deeio, and St~rt~enings wen~ hosted at the Jlnsburgh I.ibrary. Nearly all FTT classes, scrnenings and oflkns are now in the I>PAC, which provides a singln location for thn departnwnt. 
"This building is inerndible,"Hackiewiez said. "lt. should rnally enhance thn FTT dnpartment here at Notrn Damn." 
Chris Vierig, a junior FTT major, agreed. 
"I think lthn DPACI brings, not only some uniqueness to tho FTT major, hut also cnntrality and unity," hn said. "We're all in one pl1u:o now, as opposnd to being spread around." 
Tho FTT Alumni Hnunion was deonwd a grnat succnss by many involvnd. It reachnd across gmwrations and disei­plinns and brought all togothnr undnr onn roof. 
"It's just been incredible," Mandtdt· said. "You'll never have the opportunity to havn so many peopln working in tho industry at one place at onn time. It may be a once in a lifetime opportunity." 
The entertainment industry is one of the most notoriously dif'licult fields to succeed in, but the alumni reunion demonstrated that perseverance and hard work pay ofl'. 
Anne Maxfield, a 1979 graduate from the English department, recounted her diflicult road to success. She worked f'or minimum wage at several different radio stations, worknd in retail and was fired twice before finally getting her own sports radio show at WSCH in Chicago. 
When asked if shn had any advice for aspiring FTT majors _ or anyone inter­ested in working in the entertainment industry -she had appropriate words for the Notre Dame undergraduate body. 
"Keep the faith," shn said. 
Through their tales of' hard work, fail­ure and success, the FTT alumni demonstrated thn wide variety of' possi­bilities open to graduatns in the entnr­tainmnnt industry. The reunion also gave them an opportunity to cnlnbratn thn achiovements of' graduat1~s from thn department's past. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
DUSTY 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 19, 2005 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Wandy Rodriguez keeps Astros hot against Brewers 
Bonds hits homer No. 705 in Giants' win; Glavine beats Atlanta 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Astros manager Phil Garner has his own magic number, and Houston moved toward it Sunday. 
Wandy Hodriguez pitched a career-high 7 1/3 innings, and Lance Berkman put Houston ahead to stay with a two-run, first-inning double in a 6-1 vic­tory over the Milwaukee Brewers that extended the Astros' winning streak to five. 
Houston, which had just six hits, began the day with a half­game lead over Philadelphia in the NL wild-card race. The Phillies played Sunday night at the Florida Marlins, who start­ed Sunday 2 1/2 games back of the Astros (81-68). 
"This was a big win for us," Garner said. "But our goal is to get 15 games over .500 and then assess where we are." 
Garner wouldn't say what was magical about 15 games over. 
"I just feel if we go to 15 over we'll be in pretty good posi­tion," Garner said. "We're play­ing confidently now. At least we're pitching confidently. I don't know if we're hitting as confidently as I'd like." 
Houston started Sunday sec­ond in the league in pitching with a team ERA of 3.52 but was next to last in team batting at .256. 
"We knew our pitching staff was the backbone of the team," catcher Brad Ausmus said. "The question mark is our hit­ting. It isn't over yet. We've still got two weeks to go, and the offense has to come around. We're day to day with our offense." 

The pitching has been espe­cially good the last six games allowing nine runs. 
"Wandy did a super job today and that was huge for us," Garner said. "Our pitching has done a marvelous job the last six games. You have to feel good any time they pitch, but I'd like to see our offense come around a little. The guys are grinding and by me saying this, it'll probably put more pressure on them." 
Giants 5, Dodgers 3 
Barry Bonds carefully marked almost every piece of his equip­ment with No. 705 and the date, boxed it up and sealed the top with athletic tape. 
Ilis bat and hat, his gloves, his shoes, even his black-and­orange wristbands -all of it got authenticated and put away for safekeeping in one of the slugger's many storage units. 
Bonds splashed a home run into McCovey Cove for the first time this season on Sunday. His 705th career homer led off the eighth inning, causing a com­motion as soon as it reached the water and kayakers raced to retrieve the ball. 
Bonds' homer followed a tiebreaking solo drive by Mike Matheny in the sixth and Randy Wino's third homer in as many days, leading the San Francisco 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Giants past the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Matheny's homer off Franquelis Osoria (0-1) helped the Giants win their third straight after losing the opener and take the season series from Los Angelos 10-9. San Francisco trails the first-place Padres by 5 1/2 games in the NL West, and the Dodgers dropped 7 1/2 games back. 
. "It's nice to win," Bonds said. "I still feel like I'm in the spring training mode. Sometimes I feel really good. Sometimes I feel off balance. Those are things you go through in spring training. I'm trying to put it together in such a short window of time." 
Mets 4, Braves 1 
Tom Glavine really wanted to finish his start -and not because of who he was facing. 
Glavine pitched a six-hitter to beat his former team and Cliff Floyd hit his career-high 32nd homer, leading the New York Mets over the Atlanta Braves Sunday. 
Glavine (11-13) got Jeff Francoeur to bounce back to the mound to finish his 54th career complete game and his first since a 4-0 victory over Colorado on May 23, 2004. He was pleased with being able to go the distance in his 273rd career win. 
"Not because of my personal relationship with them, but Cubs 7, Cardinals 4 York Mets Aug. 7. He left that because they're a good team," Carlos Zambrano won his sixth game after three innings because Glavine said. "Any time you get consecutive decision, allowing 10 of tightness in his lower back. a complete game against any­hits in a complete game to pitch body it's nice, particularly the Chicago Cubs past Chris Pirates 9, Reds 7 against a first-place club that's Carpenter and the St. Louis Freddy Sanchez tied the score had success against you." Cardinals in a testy game with a triple and scored on Jack 
Sunday. Wilson's single as the Pittsburgh 
Carpenter and Cubs manager Pirates rallied for three runs in Dusty Baker yelled at each other the eighth inning to beat the near the Chicago dugout in the Cincinnati Heds Sunday. second inning, though it wasn't Ty Wigginton walked on four clear why. pitches to open the eighth off 
The Cubs scored four times in Matt Belisle (4-8) and scored the second on· Carpenter, a lead­when Sanchez hit a drive off ing contender for the NL Cy the glove of Ryan Freel as the Young Award who is tied for the left fielder crashed into the major league lead with 21 wins. wall. Wilson singled for an 8-7 The Cardinals already clinched lead and scored on Brad the NL Central title, so the right­Eldred's single. hander departed early after a Mike Gonzalez (1-3) pitched four-inning tuneup. the final two innings for the 
Matt Murton and Todd Walker Pirates, who have won four of homered for the Cubs. Murton five. hit his fifth homer in the sixth to Pirates starter Oliver Perez, break a 4-all tie, leading otr the making his third start since inning against Anthony Reyes (1-coming off the disabled list, 
1) with a shot to center. Walker allowed five runs -four earned led off the seventh against Cal -five hits and five walks in 2 Eldred with his 12th homer. 2/3 innings. 
Zambrano (14-5) gave up two Beds starter Eric Milton gave earned runs and threw 126 up six runs and six hits in two­pitches in his sixth career com­thirds of an it;ming. Luke Hudson, plete game. He walked one and followed with 5 1/3 scoreless 
AP struck out one. innings of two-hit relief. He The right-hander is 6-0 in eight struck out Craig Wilson with the starts since losing 6-1 to the New bases loaded to end the sixth. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

NOTICES 
hi 
WANTED 
Enjoy babies&toddlers? 1st Unitarian Church needs a nursery caregiver on Sundays from 10:15· noon. $10/hr. Must have references. Close to ND. Call Mary Beth 288· 9167. 
FoR SALE 

Excellent condition 1993 Nissan Pathfinder,4x4, red. Price nego­liable. 271-8829. 
Oakhill condo. 4bd,3bth,fin.basemt. ND 5 min. walk. Chris 574-210­4485. 
NO/Leeper Park area. Immediate possession. Great condition! 4 BR, 2 BA $134,500.MLS 203577. ReMax 100, Barb Foster, 968-4208 or 255-5858 1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli­ances.$69,000. Call Kim Kollar 574­280-8160. 
Great Sunnymede Area Home for Sale. Details online:timshousesale.blogspot.com 
Riverfront Condominiums in Niles. Spectacular St. Joe River views. Condo conversion with new kitchens, baths, sliders and decks. Only 20 minutes to Notre Dame. One bedroom units $99,900. Two bedroom unit $149,900. Call Michael Kuhn of Keller Williams Realty toll-free at 866-840-6511. 
FoR RENT 

LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcoun­trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non­smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
Remodeled House for Rent. 1 mile southeast of ND. 3 bed,2 bath $995/month. IMMACULATE! 315­9463 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­BORHOODS andersonNDrentals.com 
Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND game weekends. 7732182203 
Furnished room w/everything except food. 3 blocks to ND. $450. 289-3397 
TICKETS 

WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TlX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR$$: www.victorytickets.com 
Need 4 tix to any football game. Call Jack 57 4-67 4-6593. 
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT­BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 
BUY SELL OR TRADE ND FOOT­BALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID. A.M. -232-2378 P.M.-288-2726 
PERSONAL 
UNPLAt:.INED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M. L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekiy ad in THE OBSERVER. 

Monday, September 19, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Indians extend -wild-card lead over Yankees to 1.5 gatnes 
Athletics trounce Red Sox; Teixeira homers twice in Rangers' win 
Assntiatnl Press 
CLI~Vt·:LANI>-Al'lPr l:om­piPt.ing a thn~n-ganw swnnp ol' Kansas City, the Clnvnland Indians promisnd to maintain a ralm cknwanor when tlwy start a kny snrins Monday in Chi1:ago. 
"Why change anything now?" oul.li1ddnr Coco Crisp said aftnr gl'tling tlm~o hils in Sunday's 
I 1-0 rout ol' tlw lloyals. "We want to win nvnry game, not just thrnn in Chicago. But wn'rn not going to gnt all worried about it." 
.lhonny l'nmlta, Travis llal'nnr and Bon Broussard honwrnd, and C.C. Sabathia allownd just liw singles ovnr night innings. 
Thn Indians hnadnd to Chir.ago with a I 1/2-ganw lead owr Nnw York in tlw AL wild­card ra1~n and are ;{ 1/2 games back ol' thn Whitn Sox in the AL CPntral. 
Aaron Boonn, who had two hits and madn two stnllar plays at third base, said tlw Indians arn dntnrmirwd despite a laid baek appnamn1~e. 
"Wn realize thorn is morn at stake, hut I promise you we'll go thorn with tho same atti­tude," said Boone. "That's just tlw way this tnam is." 
Angels 12, Red Sox 3 
l•:rie Chavez and the Oakland Athletics wasted no time in rnviving thnir playoff push. 
Chavez homered twice and Oakland's first live battnrs got hits as the Athletics broke out ol' their slump with a win over thn Boston Hod Sox on Sunday. 
It was a big victory for the Athletics, who had lost their prnvious two games, dropping out ol' a tin for first plaen in the AI. Wnst. The A's rmnairwd two gamns behind division-leading l.os Angnlns, which bnat I >ntroit 5.;{. 
"If' we just continue to play liko wn are, it should bn rmough to makn this thing real internst­ing," Oakland manager Ken Maeha said. "Hitting has been riding a rollnr-eoaster. Somn guys are feeling good about thnmsnlvns a !'tor today." 
Oakland got four runs in the f'irst inning niT Matt Clement (13-6), scored three more in the seeond, thnn added live in the fifth against Jeremi Gonzalnz for a 12-0 lead. The A's had scored just three runs and totalnd 12 hits in their prnvious l.wo garnos. Oakland had 15 hits in this orw. 
Blue Jays 6, Yankees 5 
The Nnw York Yankees lost their starting pitcher in the third inning and a chancn to makn up ground in the stand­ings. 
Jarnt Wright left after being hit on tho right elbow by a bro­ken bat, and the Toronto Blue Jays ended New York's six­gamn winning streak with a vie­tory Sunday. 
Wright isn't sure if he'll be able to make his next scheduled start, which would be next weekend at home against Toronto. 
"It's sore and tight. It's kind of throbbing," he said. "It hit right on the bone on the back of the elbow." 
Alex Hodriguez hit his AL­Ieading 44th home run and Derek Jeter also connected for the Yankees, who fell 1 1/2 games behind Cleveland in thn wild-eard race but rernainnd 1 1/2 back of lirst-placn Boston in the AL East. 

White Sox 2, Twins 1 
Pitching is what put thn Chieago White Sox in first placn, and Joso Contreras is trying his best to keep them there. 
Contreras gave the struggling Whitn Sox eight strong innings in a victory over the Minnesota Twins on Sunday, helping Chicago maintain a 3 1/2-gamn lead in the AL Central )wading into a critical series with sec­ond-place Cleveland. 
"This kid, the last two wonks, every time we need it he goes out and does a tremendous job," manager Ozzie Guillen said, latnr declaring Contreras his bnst current starter in a rotation that ineludes Jon Garland and Mark Buehrle. 
The White Sox scored four runs in this three-game series at the Metrodome and somehow won twice, raising their record in one-run games this year to 32-17. The Twins are 27-29 in one-run decisions. 
"We know we have 11 guys on our staff that can go out and make outs," catcher A.J. Pierzynski said. "They continue to keep us in games, and we continue to score enough runs to find a way to win." 
Rangers 8, Mariners 6 
Coors Field has some compe­tition. 
Mark Teixeira homered twice and three teammates also con­nected as the Texas Rangers set a major league record for home runs at home, beating the Seattle Mariners Sunday to fin­ish a four-game sweep. 

Rod Barajas' drive in the fourth inning gave the Hangers 150 homers at Ameriquest Field this season, breaking the mark of 149 set by the 1996 Colorado Rockies at Coors Field -long considered the best ballpark in the majors for hitters. 
Texas' 12-year-old stadium isn't too shabby, either. 
"In this park, you get the ball up and they'll make you pay for it," Mariners manager Mike Hargrove said. "The Rangers take advantage of this park and when you add that we didn't pitch well, this is what hap­pens." 
Teixeira broke a tin with a three-run shot and pushed his season total to 41 homers. David Dellueei and Alfonso Soriano also homernd on a windy afternoon ror the Hangers, who have won live in a row to reaeh .500 (75-75) l"or the first time since Aug. lJ. 
Teixeira joined Juan Gonzalez, Hafanl Palrneiro and Alex Hodriguez as the only Texas players with at lnast 40 homers in a season. 
"Those are three gmat play­ers," said Teixeira, who had four HBis to incrnase his total to 132, tied for the AL lead with Boston's David Ortiz. "You ean feel good about your accom­plishment when you're men­tioned with thosn players. Hitting 40 homers is a great number that not many people get to." 
The switch-hitting Teixeira added a solo homer in the sev­enth while batting right-handnd against George ~herrill to extend Texas' lead to H-6. lin had his seventh rnultihonwr game this season and the I I t.h or his carnnr. 

LINIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY J>ROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall 2006, SPRING 2007, A Y 2006-7, SUMMER 2006 
INFORMATION MEETING 
VVednesday,Sept.21,2005 
6:30 PM 102 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2005 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACAOEMIC YEAR 2006-7 APRIL 1, 2006 FOR SUMMER 2006 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Live alittleSM on Mondays! 
E"joy adouble order of chicke", steak or cot1tbo fajitas (e"ough for 1Wo) for just •tl!* 

• •I 
~liS® 

MISHAWAKA 
4-810 ~ape Rd.• m..t~~ 
•Offer valid WPIV MOIIday II a111. 10 close. 



-
.-----------~-~-------~-----­
AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 
Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  usc  2·0  1,617  
2  Texas  3·0  1,564  
3  LSU  1-0  1,437  
4  Virginia Tech  3-0  1,406  
5  Florida  3·0  1,372  
6  Florida State  3·0  1,246  
7  Georgia  3·0  1,235  
8  Ohio State  2·1  1,127  
9  Louisville  2·0  1,096  
10  Tennessee  1-1  929  
11  Purdue  2·0  916  
12  Miami  1·1  901  
13  California  3·0  739  
14  Michigan  2·1  702  
15  Georgia Tech  3·0  699  
16  NOTRE DAME  2·1  609  
17  Michigan State  3-0  500  
18  Arizona Stale  2·1  480  
19  Texas Tech  2-0  416  
20  Alabama  3·0  298  
21  Iowa  2·1  282  
22  Iowa State  2·0  245  
23  Virginia  2·0  221  
24  Oregon  3-0  201  
25  UCLA  3·0  185  

USA Today Poll 
team record points 
1 usc 2·0 1,548 2 Texas 3·0 1,483 3 LSU 2·0 1,364 4 Virginia Tech 3·0 1,350 5 Florida 3·0 1,292 6 Georgia 3·0 1,240 7 Florida State 3·0 1,180 8 Louisville 2-0 1,035 9 Ohio State 2·1 972 10 Purdue 2·0 909 11 Tennessee 1-1 863 12 Miami 1·1 852 13 Michigan 2-1 736 14 California 3·0 722 15 Georgia Tech 3-0 654 16 Texas Tech 2-0 523 17 Arizona State 2·1 395 18 NOTRE DAME 2-1 385 19 Virginia 2-0 358 20 Alabama 3-0 340 21 Iowa 2·1 277 22 Michigan State 3·0 256 23 UCLA 2·1 232 24 Wisconsin 3·0 205 25 Boston College 2·1 163 
M IAA Women's Golf 
team total avg. 
SAINT MARY'S 332 332 Olivet 349 349 Hope 352 352 Albion 361 361 Kalamazoo 370 370 Alma 379 379 Tri-State 393 393 Calvin 397 397 Adrian 439 439 

around the dial 
NFL New York at New Orleans 6:30 p.m., ABC Washington at Dallas 8 p.m., ABC 
MLB 

Cleveland at Chicago White Sox 7:05 p.m., FOX Sports Ohio Detroit at Kansas City 7:10p.m., FOX Sports Detroit Minnesota at Oakland 9:05p.m., FOX Sports North 
COJ\-1PIUD FROM TJH: ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Monday, September 19, 2005 
PGA 


Associated Press 

FARMINGTON, Pa. ­Jason Gore stood up to an excellent late-season field, and to the very pressure that wilted him three months ago at the 
U.S. Open. Most of all, he stood up to Sunday. 
Gore, whose last-day unraveling already is part of Open lore, held off the 84 Lumber Classic field with big drives and steely nerves to win on the PGA Tour barely a month after being_ stuck in golf's minor leagues. 
Gore's four-stroke lead with five holes to play was down to one over runner-up Carlos Franco by No. 18, but Gore land­ed his approach shot on the 468-yard par-4 on the lower fringe of the green. With a playoff looming if he didn't get up and down, Gore deftly lagged his putt from 91 1/2 feet to within 22 inches and tapped in for a final­round 2-under 70 and the Tour victory he once thought might never come. 
"I hit the best putt of my life," he said. "What made it easier is the putt was so hard -I had to go up and down two ele­phants and over the windmill. It worked out, 
IN BRIEF 

Former baseball MVP Donn Clendenon dies of Leukemia 
SIOUX FALLS, S.D. -Donn Clendenon, the power-hitting first baseman who was the most valu­able player in the New York Mets' 1969 World Series victory, died Saturday after a long fight with leukemia. He was 70. 
A spokesman from the George Boom Funeral Home confirmed the death. • 
Clendenon hit three home runs and had four RBis in the Mets' five­game victory over the Baltimore Orioles. He hit .274 with 159 home runs and 682 RBis in 12 seasons in the major leagues with Pittsburgh, Montreal, the Mets and St. Louis. 
Clendenon spent his first eight seasons in the majors with Pittsburgh, began the 1969 season with Montreal and joined the Mets in a midseason deal. 
In the 1969 World Series, the Orioles were ahead 3-0 in Game 5 when Mets manager Gil Hodges luckily." 
His 14-under 274 was 
three shots better than 
third-place finisher Ben 
Crane (67). 

"It's pretty incredible," said Gore, who played with a sponsor's exemp­tion. "Around May-ish I was wondering if I could get formula for my child, if I was going to make a house payment, and now look. They just handed me a check for $792,000. It's amazing where a little perseverance and grit and maybe a little igno­
rance can take you." 
Gore never finished 
higher than 18th during 
two previous stays on the 
PGA Tour, in 2001 and 2003, and had won only $40,399 on that tour this year. Now, he joins Paul Stankowski (1996) as the only winners on the developmental Nationwide and PGA tours in the same year. 
The portly, big-swinging Gore is the first to do so after earning the auto­matic in-season promo­tion that goes to any three-time Nationwide winner. 
Now, all those public course duffers who think they could make the leap to golf's big leagues have a new hero to go with John Daly. 

emerged from the dugout to argue that a ball thrown by Baltimore's Dave McNally hit Mets outfielder Cleon Jones in the foot. Seattle Seahawks' Ray
Rhodes recovers from stroke 
SEATTLE -Team physicians said Sunday that Seattle Seahawks defen­sive coordinator Ray Rhodes had suf­fered a mild stroke after he was hos­pitalized with dizziness earlier this month. 
"He's recovering well and appears not to have any type of deficits after the stroke," team physician Brad Shoup said in a statement. 
Seahawks head coach Mike Holmgren said Rhodes, 54, should resume full-time coaching this week. He was hospitalized Sept. 4. 
Rhodes did not accompany the team to Jacksonville last week. He was in the coaches booth on Sunday as a consultant, but linebackers coach John Marshall handled the play calling. 
He was presented with a game ball 
after Seattle's 21-18 win. Mina helps FC Dallas snap a I 0-game losing streak 
FRISCO, Texas -Roberto Mina scored twice, helping FC Dallas clinch a playoff berth with a 2-1 win over Real Salt Lake on Sunday. 
FC Dallas (11-9-6) also snapped a 10-game winless streak and won for the first time at Pizza Hut Park. 

Mina's second goal in the 52nd minute turned out to be the deciding goal, handing Real Salt Lake (5-17­
4) its sixth straight loss. 
Ramon Nunez started the sequence when he dribbled around Real Salt Lake defenders and passed to Bobby Rhine. Rhine tapped a pass from the front of the Real Salt Lake net to Mina, who fired a shot from the top of the goalie box for his fifth goal of the season and a 2-0 FC Dallas lead. 
Real Salt Lake responded minutes later when Jamie Watson headed the ball into the FC Dallas net from about 5 yards away. 
-
Monday, September 19, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO WoMEN's CREW 
Irish fare vvell in vveekend regatta 
Team is happy with performance in race early in the season 
By TOM DORWART 
SponsWriter 
Sunday. tlw rownrs gaugnd t.hPir progress. 
And tlw assessnwnt is'? 
Tlu•y'vp madP gn•at strides this fall. 
Whiln tlw Irish have only pradie1~d for about two wonks, thny managed to linish the S1:athaeh boat fourth out of 11 crews in IIIli' race at the wnnk<'nd regatta. 
They raced three boats in thrnn diiTnrnnt raens. Eastnrn Mkhigan. Michigan and Michigan State naeh had boats participate. Stroke limits worn 25 pnr minute, while each raen lasted 3.000 mntnrs. 
Usually Notre Dame takes its top rowers and puts them in the A boat. The rest of the crew is separated by ability and cooperation. But this weekend, coach Martin Stone chose tho boats and the row­ers randomly. The three boats worn the Joyce, the llesburgh and the Scathach. 
Th n Scath ach l'i nislwd in I 0:01. In that piece, tho crew included Shannan Lettieri, Melissa Felker, Alyss1i Close, Lindsay McQuaid, Betsy Madison. Laura Pearson, Andr·ca Doud, Erica Castro­Larson and Shannon Cassell. The. Joyce crew finished eighth in 10:08, while the Ilnsburgh crew came in 1Oth in 10:11. 
In the second piece, the Scathach remained consistent. It finished fifth in 9:42 with Eileen Froehlkn, Felker, Close, McQuaid, Madison, Pearson, Doud, Erica Castro-Larson and Kate Sylvia aboard. The Joyce took seventh, and the Hesburgh finished eighth. 
Though the rowers were pleased with their start to the day, they finished even stronger. 
The Scathach stormed in at third in 10:03. The Joyce also Jinished third in its piece, and tho I lesburgh fell to ninth. 
For tho first regatta, the Irish rowed well. They now know what they must do this fall to condition themselves for an NCAA run in the spring. 
"l was very pleased with how we rowed today," Stone said. "We've only been prac­ticing for two weeks, and we used this eomp.etition to sen where we are at this early in the season. 
"Today showed us what we need to do to get better." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Trojans stay No. 1 in both polls 
Associated Press 
Southern California's run at No. 1 in Tho Assodatod Press Top 25 roached a roeord­hreaking level and Oklahoma, the toam USC rnplaced in the top spot almost two years ago, was unranked for the first time sinen 1999. 
Wilh the Trojans top-ranked in t.hn AP media poll released Sunday, USC has now bonn No. 
1 for 22 straight polls, besting thfl record set by Miami from 2001-02. 
USC received 57 of 65 lirst­plaee votes. No. 2 Texas received the other eight first­place votes. LSU is No. 3 fol­lowed by Virginia Tech and Florida, rounding out the top live. 
Tho Trojans took over the top spot Dee. 7, 2003, after then-No. 1 Oklahoma lost the Big 12 title game to Kansas State. 
USC won the Hose Bowl to finish the season No. 1 in the AP poll, then began last season in the same spot. 
The Trojans, who became just the second team to go wire-to-wire as No. 1 in 2004, started this season as the over­whelming top-ranked team and have done nothing prove the voters wrong so far. 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles blank Albion in conference match 
Freshman Hinton tallies two goals in consecutive games 
By KYLE CASSJLY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint. Mary's soccer tnam continued to roll this weekend with its second-straight MIA/\ win in a 3-1 victory at Alma College on Saturday. 
The Belles used the momen­tum they had gained earlier in the week during a 2-0 win over Albion College to move to 2-1 in MIAA play and 3-3 overall. 
For the second straight game, freshman Lauren I linton made a giant impaet, tallying two goals in each game. I linton hns been an ofl'ensive powerhouse so far this season, scoring four out of' the Belles' nine goals on the sea­son and consistnntly pressuring the opponent's defense with an exhausting attack. 
"She's a pure striker; she's got a nose for the goal," senior leader Carrie Orr said of Hinton. "If she gets a breakaway one-on­one with the defender or just the keeper, she's going to put it away. It's good to have someone dependable lat attacker]." 
The Belles' Carolyn Logan pro­vided the eventual game-win­ning goal with little time left in the first half. In a 1-1 tie, Logan scored the Belles' second goal with under a minute to play. The Scots could not garner any offense after Logan's winning drive, sealing the deal for the Belles. 
!linton got tlw Belles on the board first af'tnr ripping a shot into the not in tho :nrd minutn of play. Th<~ Belles forward sprinted on a fast break and boat Alma goaltender Pam McCarthy. tlw MIA/\ dnfensivn player of tho week, with a well­placed shot. 
·Then in the 7Xth minute. !linton struck again and sealed thP deal with lwr se<~ond of tlw game and the Belles' third. 'flw insurance goal sent the Bolles homn with anot.hM key MIA/\ win over a challenging opponnnt. 
"Kind of like against Albion, we took control of the game," Orr said. "We know what we had to do. We outmatched Alma in nvery way." 
After a tough stretrh early in thn season on whkh tho Belles strugglnd to put away goals. they are now lighting up the show behind a rejuvenated midfield and attack. I linton is not the only freshman who has been a vital part of the Saint Mary's attack, as Whitney Fron has playnd con­sistently well with a game-win­ning double overtime goal in the first game of the season. Hinton's sister Ac;;hlny has been a force at midfield after kitking otr several goal-produdng drives. 
"We put goals in the baek of the net, which is something wn have really needed to do," Orr said, regarding her team's new­found offensive confidence. "Overall, we played really well." 
The Belles will play at 4 p.m. on Tuesday at home against. Olivet College. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 


Everything you need for high-speed Internet access. 
Sign up for the SBC Student Plan SBC Yahoo! DSL Express 
+ Your local Access line 
as low as 
$ 
75* 
a month for a g-month term! 
•ather monthly c/wrges apply. 

Taxes, other charges and the Federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. For details of additional charges, restrictions and requirements, calll-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.com/u. SBC, the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, t.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. ©2005 SBC Knowledge Ventures, L.P. All rights reserved. IN 
,......-----------------~--~ -~ 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
Gopher 
continued from page 28 
the Irish were going to need to lay up tee shots, and hit lower irons for their second shots. 
"You were constantly laying back to a distance where you didn't have to deal with that narrow part of the fairway," senior Mark Baldwin said. "It was more about who was play­ing the most intelligent off of the tee, and I think the teams that decided to play aggressive­ly were actually penalized for that significantly." 
The Irish also had a little dif­ficulty with the greens, as the green speed proved to be a challenge all weekend. 
"Around the greens, they were different than the greens we're used to because they are really fast," Baldwin said. "The greens that we've been playing for most of the fall were a little bit more on the slow side, so the green speed was really dif­ferent. Its quite an adjustment to have to make." 
Despite the No. 5 finish, the Irish were not happy with their performance as the team felt it could have done much more in the tournament. 
"I think coach was pretty dis­appointed," Baldwin said. "We are a really talented team and we had great expectations com­ing into the tournament. We're taking this as a poor tourna­ment actually, a poor fmish for us. because we thought we could have come in here and won." 
Minnesota and Washington tied for first, shooting 883 ­301-284-298 for Minnesota and 


DUSTIN MANNELLA/The Observer Cole lsban hits a tee shot last Sept. 19. lsban had a tough first round, shooting an 80 Saturday, which hurt Irish chances. 
302-294-287 for Washington ­but Minnesota won the tourna­ment on a tie breaker, as their fifth golfer posted a better round than Washington's. 
The Huskies' fifth golfer was disqualified after the second round when he did not sign his scorecard after completing Saturday's round. 
Georgia State and Purdue tied for third with scores of 890. 
Senior Scott Gustafson led the way for the Irish, firing a 218 (7 3-7 3-72) over the three-day tournament, a score that was good for a No. 6 individual fin­ish. 
Mark Baldwin was also in the top 10, fmishing No. 10 overall, shooting a 219 (76-72-71). 
With Gustafson and Baldwin finishing in the top 10, it was the first time the Irish had done that since the 2004 Rice Invitational when Cole lsban and Tommy Balderston accom­plished that same feat. 
lsban finished tied for No. 22, shooting a 224 after a first­round 80. He responded by shooting even par in his next two rounds combined (80-74­70). 
The 70 Isban shot on Saturday was the best individ­ual round by an Irish player all weekend, but the with a more consistent round on Friday, the Irish would have been right in the thick of things. 
"[lsban] had a very uncharac­teristic round," Baldwin said. 
Eric Deutsch and Mike King finished tied for No. 42 and No. 58 respectively, firing a 233 and a 242. 
Despite the disappointing tournament, Baldwin felt that the team's feeling might speak to what it is capable of accom­plishing. 
"If this is as poor of an event as you can have, if you feel like you've played poorly, what does that say that's gonna happen when you play well," Baldwin said. "What kind of results will you be getting when you live up to those expectations? I feel like this is just gonna lead us to bigger and better things." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Monday, September 19, 2005 

Johnnies 
continued from page 28 

but his shot sailed left of the goal. 
Notre Dame finally got on the board with 7:30 left in the game when St. John's scored on its own goal. Irish striker Joe Lapira fired a pass across the box, but St. John's defender Sam Matthews inadvertently headed the ball in to make the score 2-1. 
The Irish were unable to even the score in the final seven min­utes, however. St. John's con­trolled the play all game. 
"To be honest, I thought we didn't find our game at all," Notre Dame head coach Bobby Cl(!,rk said. "It was a very difficult night for us." 
Clark thought that a lot of his team's struggles came from St. John's' tremendous home field advantage. The Red Storm have a large fan base and a unique stadium that makes it difficult for opposing teams. 
St. John's has only lost six games at home in the last 10 years. 
"They're a very good team to take nothing away from them, but they know how to play the tough field very well," Clark said. "It was a tough environment and, to be fair, we didn\ get a hold of it." 
The Irish regretted their per­formance Friday because they knew they missed out an oppor­tunity for a marquee win over the lOth-ranked Red Storm. 
"Obviously you are disappoint­ed because we thought maybe we could've done something, but we didn't," Clark said. 
Clark was thrilled, though. with the way the Irish responded Sunday against Syracuse. The Orange entered the game with an undefeated 4-0-1 record, but Notre Dame took control from the start of the game. 
"They were coming out a very confident team, but we just took over the game," Clark said. "We controlled the game pretty well start to finish." 
Junior forward Justin McGeeney tallied the game's only goal in the 52nd minute off of an assist from Stephens. McGeeney totaled five shots in the game. Midfielder Ian Etherington added five shots of his own, while for­ward Tony Megna barely missed a goal early in the game when his header sailed over the cross­bar. 
Syracuse made the game inter­esting late. The Orange added a third forward and threatened to score on several occasions late in the game, but could not find the back of the net. 
The Irish defense put forth another superb effort against Syracuse. Coming into the year, defense was the major question mark surrounding the team. Cahill and the backs have proved up to task, however. Cahill recorded his third shutout in the last four games Sunday. 
Clark was proud of how well the Irish played Sunday after Friday's setback. 
"Although we only scored one goal, I felt we possibly put in our best performance of the year so far," Clark said. "Today is the happiest I've felt with the way people are starting to fmd their role. 
"We are starting to get a good feeling about what the team is going to look like." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrennan@nd.edu 


S:uda1t Union Board PurdueTicket Lottery WINNING NUMBERS 
2322 2426 2575 2655 2782 2877 2982 3186 3413 3500 3647 3864 3950 4064 4241 2355 2439 2578 2659 2788 2879 3015 3187 3419 3508 3655 3865 3956 4089 4256 2358 2446 2593 2664 2790 2895 3081 3251 3427 3515 3659 3877 3979 4117 4269 2372 2449 2601 2679 2803 2910 3097 3252 3428 3541 3670 3888 3981 4122 4300 2378 2463 2602 2683 2807 2925 3123 3265 3462 3555 3677 3918 3982 4123 4301 2382 2466 2609 2723 2826 2930 3135 3280 3463 3594 3813 3929 4015 4125 4305 2389 2516 2614 2731 2852 2937 3156 3284 3468 3597 3821 3931 4018 4145 4334 2398 2522 2617 2764 2856 2951 3163 3317 3472 3603 3832 3932 4038 4199 4360 2416 2535 2638 2779 2860 2959 3165 3373 3493 3613 3848 3934 4048 4231 2422 2550 2644 2780 2875 2975 3175 3380 3496 3616 3849 3940 4062 4232 

Monday, September 19, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
McNabb's five touchdowns propel Eagles 
Carolina plays tough against champs, as New England falls 27-17 in 2004 Super Bowl rematch 
Associated Press 
I'IIII.ADI·:I.I'IIIA -Donovan MrNahh and TPrTPII Owens arn hack to pit-king apart dnfPnsns instPad of Parh otlrPr. 
MrNahh tlrrnw four of his livn tourhdown passns in tlw lirst 19 rninutPs, inrluding a pair to OwPns, lnading tlw l'hiladPiphia l·:agiPs to a 42-:{ victory over tlw San 1-'r·andsro 4')Prs on Sunday. 
"WhatPVPr happnnPd in the past. hopPfully il's ovnr," McNahh said of his wnll-publi­rizPd fnud with OwPns this sum­rnPr. 
WParing (~xtra padding to pro­t,•rt his injun•d dwst, McNabb linislwd 23-of-29 for :H2 yards and tiPd his (:arnnr bnst for TD passns while playing thrnn quar­tPrs. ( lwnns had livn catches for 14:! yards -all in tho op(ming I9 rninutns -in his lirst game against his fornror tnam. 
1...1. Smith mught a carnnr-bnst nirw passes for 119 yards and orw Tl> for Philadnlphia ( 1-1). 
"J>on was looking for all his rnenivnrs," Smith said. "lie was­n't keying on one person. Sornnlimes, I was the third read and still got the ball. The tight nnd is vital in this ofl'nnse." 
Alex Smith, thn lop pick in the NFI. draf'l, made his debut for San l:randsw, playing the last snrins and throwing one incom­plntn pass. 
"Wn don't have any excuses. WP didn't play vnry wnll," 49ers coach Mikn Nolan said. "We'll (:orrnct our mistakos. We'll learn from thnm." 
Six days aftnr losing to Atlanta 14-10 in a rnrnatch of last sea­son's NFC Championship Game, tlu• Eaglns dominatnd tlw 49ers I1-1 ) from thn start. 
Panthers 27, Patriots 17 
Tlw Carolina Panthers know a 
Wnnk 2 victory ovnr Nnw 
England donsn 't comn dose to 
rndifying tlwir Super Bowl loss 
to tlw Patriots two ynars ago. 
Evnn so, l.lwir victory ovnr thn Patriots on Sunday surn did l'nnl good. 
"It wasn't a rnvnng(~ game or a gd-back ganw, hocause that was a long limn ago," said Panthnrs quartnrback Jake Dnlhomrne. "This was just a big win for us." 
It cnrtainly was no Supnr Bowl repriso bocausn nnitlwr team played that well. 
But thn Panthnrs ( 1-1) did just nnough to win. gntting three touchdowns from Stnphnn Davis in tho first regular-season meet­ing bntweon the tnams since the Patriots' 32-29 Super Bowl win two seasons ago. 
But if it was any indication. neither tnam is roady to play for a championship and the Patriots (1-1) look nothing like a winner of three of the last four Super Bowls. 
"Do you think we're going to win any morn games playing like this?" Patriots coach Bill Belichick said. "We can't play like this. We have to play better. We have to coach better. This won't be good enough ... against anyone we play." 
Carolina won in spite of Delhomme, who was oft' all day and had an interception by Mike Vrabel returned 24 yards for a touchdown. Delhomme finished 11-of-26 for 154 yards and no touchdowns. 
It meant the Panthers had to 

DvsPU 
NEED A RIDE? 
Gl.'laou•s
the 

Saturday, October 1sf 
Bus departs from Library Circle to West Lafayette at 12:00 pm and returns 1/2 hour after the game. 
$1 0/ticket .. 1 ticket/ID .. 2 IDs per purchase WHILE THEY LAST AT LAFORTUNE INFO DESK BEGINNING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19TH 
Bus ticket is for transportation only and does not grant admission to the game. 
NO ALCOHOL. SEATING IS LIMITED. 

rely on Davis, who ran for 77 yards and scored on three 1­yard plunges in his second game back from microfracturc surgery on his right knee. Davis became the first running back to score three TDs against the Patriots since Curtis Martin did it in 2000. 
''I'm line," Davis said. I'm feel­ing great. I'm having no set­backs." 
Steelers 27, Texans 7 
Big Ben's left knee is doing fine. So are all the winning streaks tied to him and the Pittsburgh Steelers heading into 
their AFC Championship Game 
rematch with New England. 
Shaking ofT a bruisn that had him listed as questionable even to play. Ben Roethlisberger led the Steelers to a pair of touch­downs and two field goals on their first four drives en route to a victory over the Houston Texans on Sunday. 
Pittsburgh (2-0) won its 16th straight regular-season game, matching the Miami teams of 1971-73 and 1983-84 for the second best run in league histo­ry. The record is 18, set by the Patriots and ended by the Steelers when they met last October in Pittsburgh. 
New England got revenge by winning at lleinz Field in January to get to the Super Bowl. Now the Steelers am the ones talking about payback with the two-time Super Bowl -champs returning to Pittsburgh on Sunday. 
"f think that will be on a lot of people's minds this week." said running back Willie Parker, who cemented his hold on the start­ing job with 111 yards and a touchdown on 25 carries. 
"We try to takn it one game at a time, but the New England game is not really the same," added safety Troy Polamalu, who had throe of Pittsburgh's eight sacks. 
While the Patriots took some of' the luster oil' the rnrnatch by los­ing at Carolina. the Stnelers k(~pt up their end with Honthlisborgor improving to 15-0 as a startor and Pittsburgh winning an eighth straight road game, one shy of the team rneord sPl in 1974-75. 
"We've got to keep doing what we're doing -not turning tho ball over. not w~tting penalth~s and playing smart," roaeh Bill Cowher·said. 
The Tnxans (0-2) know how tough it would hn to stop thn Stnolers. so thoy rnsorted to a 12th man of sorts -Mother Nature. They slid opon thnir roof, hoping on-liPid tompera­tures that started above 110 and kept rising would wear down 

their black-jers1~y-wearing foes. 
Jets 17, Dolphins 7 
Chad Pennington strugglnd for 

most of' the day against tho 
Miami Dolphins. fumbling tlw 
opening snap, wobbling passos 
and missing receivers. 
Then came up big-right 

when the Jets needed him. 
Pennington throw two touch­

down passes, induding a 1­
yarder to Jerald Sowell in the 
fourth quarter to help seal a vie­
tory Sunday. And for tho most 
part, he held onto tho ball. 
Hoping to atone for six fum­

bles last week in an embarrass­
ing loss to Kansas City, 
Pennington vownd not to drop 
another orw against tlw 
Dolphins (1-1). It didn't take him 
long to break that promise: On 
the first play or the game, he 
bobbled the exehange from 
Kevin Mawae. 
But Dolphins defensive nnd Jason Taylor was of'fsido, so instead of a disastrous start. Pennington had gotten tho ono little gall'o out of his systorn. 
lie lwld on for tho rnst of' tlw 

game, but his passes W(~rP 
anotlwr mattnr. Many wobhlnd 
in the air; sornn wen~ too short, 
others too long. But he eonnnet­
nd on just nnough, and was at 
his best in tho fourth quarter. 
Gus Frerotte throw a 4-yard touchdown pass to Handy McMichael at tlw start ol' tlw quarter, dosing tlw Jets lead to 10-7. 
On the !Hlsuing drive, Pennington and the .)(~ts ( 1-1) answered. Pennington went 7­of-7 for 7 4 yards, r.apping an SO­yard drive with tlw scoring pass lo Sowell to make it 17-7. Tlw series took 10 plays and alP up 
5:54. 
Pennington finislwd I9-of-30 lilr 190 yards, with no intPrTPp­tions. 
Curtis Martin. who won lh,. NFI. rushing titlP last sPason. litilnd to reach I00 yards fiw Uw second straight ganw. Tlw Dolphins lwld Martin l.o 72 yards on :{1 earl"ies, and tlw dnfPnsn kept them in tlw ganw. 
But Fn~rottn. after a st1~flar ganw in a surprising :~4-1 0 vie­tory ovnr Dnnvnr last wonk. was ofT, linishing 20-of-4:{ for 177 yards with a touchdown and an intnreoption. which 1:amo fatn on a last attmnpt at a rally. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 19, 2005 
NASCAR 

Newman wins at Loudon in first race of 10-man playoff 
South Bend native beats Tony Stewart in New Hampshire 
Associated Press  
LOUDON, N.H. -Newman stole a race Stewart thought was his.  Ryan Tony  

Newman, who barely squeezed into the 10-man Chase for the championship, got off to a fast start in NASCAR's 10-race playoff Sunday by out­dueling points leader Stewart down the stretch to win the Sylvania 300. 
Stewart, who started from the pole, dominated through much of the race, leading 173 of the 300 laps at New Hampshire International Speedway. But Newman won a late battle with Stewart, passing him on lap 299 and holding the top spot by two car-lengths. 
Both men are Indiana natives, Newman from South Bend, Stewart from Columbus. 
"Tony wasn't happy with the balance of his car at the end," said Newman. who led 66 laps. "llis car was going away at the right time for me. It was going away faster than mine. But that's the best racing I've seen at this track." 
Following the !1naf pit stops by the leade'rs, Newman found himself just ahead of Stewart when the green flag waved with 16 lap to go after the last of 10 caution nags. 
The streaking Stewart, on the way to his 13th consecutive fin­ish of eighth or better, was relentless in trying to retake the lead, pulling up to the rear quarterpanel of Newman's Penske Racing South Dodge time after time before finally slipping below him on the back­stretch on lap 292. 

But Newman, whose last win came a year ago in Dover, wouldn't give up. He stayed with Stewart, got beneath the Joe Gibbs Racing Chevrolet on lap 299 and pulled ahead, stay­ing out front to win by 0.292­seconds. 
Chase contenders Matt Kenseth and Greg Biflle finished third and fourth, followed by Dale Earnhardt Jr., who is out of the Chase but running his first race with Tony Eury Jr. back as his crew chief. 
"Tony and I are a good combi­nation," said fan favorite Earnhardt, who has struggled through a disappointing season. "And we're going to try to work toward next year. These next nine races are real important and we're going to try to build on that." 
Newman was ecstatic after his first win in 35 races, finally breaking through for a win after season-long struggles ­and doing it in the biggest race so far this season. 
"That was a long time without a Cup win," said Newman, who drove part-time in the Busch Series this season and got a big boost by winning three straight races at one point. 
"It felt so good to be able to win in the Busch Series and win three races over there. That builds confidence in a driver," he said. 
As for his battle with Stewart, Newman said, "Getting back by him was a lot easier than him getting by me because I was giving him everything I could. I just did exactly the same thing to him that he did to me." 
Stewart was philosophic about losing the race in such a great battle. 
"I got used up a little bit on running on the high side, but that was a good race," he said. "But that was some kind of short track racing right there. That's the way the Chase should start just like that. 
"Ryan did an awesome job. We just couldn't hold him off at the end." . 

It was Newman's 12th career win and, more important, moved him from 1Oth in the standings -a position he bare­ly grabbed with a 12th place finish last week in Hichmond ­to a tie for third with teammate Rusty Wallace, both of them trailing Stewart by 40 points and Greg Biffle by 20. 
Wallace finished sixth, with Chase contenders Mark Martin sixth, Jeremy Mayfield 16th, Carl Edwards 19th and defend­ing champion Kurt Busch, involved in a crash on the sec­ond lap of the race, 35th. 
Busch, who startPd his charge toward his title with a victory here last year in the opener of the inaugural Chase, was sent spinning into the wall in a colli­sion with Scott Higgs on the sec­ond lap. 
The furious champion drove his battered, smoking car to the garage, then strode to Riggs' pits, where he climbed up the pit box and spoke for a few moments to Riggs' crew chief Rodney Childers. 

Asked what Busch said to him, Childers said, "They've had some past experiences with stuff. He took us out at Indy and we forgave them. This was an accident and he'll have to for­give us." 
Busch then stalked back to the garage, where his team 
worked furiously to get the car repaired. Busch, who began the day in fifth place, just 20 points behind Stewart, finally returned to the race on lap 68, 66 laps behind the leaders. With the help of attrition, Busch worked his way up from 43rd to 35th, a difference of 24 points. 
WNBA 

Monarchs are on the brink of championship after win 
Yolanda Griffith leads Sacramento with 19 points and 11 boards 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -When the Sacramento Monarchs seemed ready to lose their lead and their heads in Game 3 of the WNBA Finals, Yolanda Griffith slid into her coach's chair during a timeout. 
Whatever instructions or encouragement she barked at her teammates, they worked ­mostly because Griffith motivat­ed herself to another big game. 
Griflith had 19 points and 11 rebounds with relentless inside play, and the Monarchs moved to 
"We,re waiting for 

the brink of their as much to the first championship everybody to step crowd afterward, Sunday with a 66-screaming: "We
up and bring it.,,

55 victory over the need one more!" 
Connecticut Sun. Griffith's team­After being Yolanda Griffith mates largely strug­named to the All­Monarchs center gled on offense with 
and Nicole Powell tied a WNBA Finals record with four 3-point­ers. But Griffith was the differ­ence -and even after putting the Monarchs up 2-1 in the best-of-five series, she was still smoldering. 
"Even though we're home, land) I know their backs are against the wall right now, even though we're up [2-1], I should be happy. Am I? I don't know," Griffith said. ''I mean, I'm just not satisfied, because I know we can play better ball. Tuesday, I hope it's the game. We'r.e wait­ing for everybody to step up and bring it." · 
Game 4 is Tuesday night at Arco Arena, where the Monarchs hope to wrap up the best season in franchise history with a title. DeMya Walker proelaimed 
WNBA team earlier in the day, Griffith played with the relentless ener­gy that's driven her through seven seasons. She dominated the paint with five offensive rebounds and nonstop defensive energy, and her f'inal basket with 3:24 left stalled the Sun's last-gasp rally. 
Kara Lawson scored 16 points and hit six free throws in the final minute for the Monarchs, 17-of-52 shooting, 

but the Monarchs made just seven turnovers and survived the Sun's final rally with their signature defense, which frustrated Connecticut into 16 turnovers and an after­noon of terrible shooting. 
The Sun might be running out of energy and healthy players, but they still believe they're capable of winning a series that's been close in the final 
· 
minutes of all three games. 

"I guess I'm not much of a prognosticator, because I thought we would play our best game of the series today, and we played our worst," said Connecticut coach Mike Thibault, who wrote a series of unflattering statisties on the locker room chalkboard after the game. "They're disruptjve [defensively!, but by this point in the series, we should be able to better handle it." , 
The Monarchs opened thei second half with a 15-5 run ' including eight points from Griffith, and they led 50-36 with 11 1/2 minutes to play. Connecticut rallied with 12 con­secutive points in four minutes, capped by Ashja Jones' jumper to cut the Monan~hs' lead to 55­53 with 4:18 left. 
But Griffith snapped her dub's five-minute scoreless skid with a layup, and Sacramento finished on a 9-0 run while Connecticut couldn't score in the final 3 minutes, 16 seconds. 
"Mistakes, turnovers, that's part of what our defensive intention is," Sacramento coach John Whisenant said. "We make their shots harder, eliminate their assists. That's all part of being alert and intense. Our goal in everything we do is built around our defense, our whole game from start to finish." 
Taj McWilliams-Franklin had 16 points and 13 rebounds for the Sun, but went scoreless in the final 7:18. Nykesha Sales scored 1 7 points after a slow start, but the Connecticut stars' teammates managed just eight field goals. 
Lindsay Whalen, who sat out Game 2 for Connecticut with a sprained ankle and a leg injury, seored two points and made five turnovers in 22 ineffective min­utes. She sat out down the stretch, and her absence hurt when backup Jamie Carey missed an open fast-break layup with 1:49 to play. 
What are you destined for? 
Fidelity is forward movement. Join us and arrive at something spectacular: real career satisfaction. Fidelity Investments currently has multiple Audit Analyst openings within our Corporate, Mutual Funds, Brokerage, and Employer Services teams in MA and NY/ NJ. Come meet Fidelity hiring managers and learn about these opportunities. 
Fidelity Investments Audit Analyst Information Session 
Tuesday, September 20 Room 112 CCE/McKenna Hall 
6:00pm-7:00pm Refreshments to follow 
Fidelity Investments is one of the most trusted providers of financial services and investment resources that helps individuals and institutions meet their financial objectives. Over the course of building an industry-leading, worldwide business, we have become known for our integrity, commitment to continuous improvement, state-of-the-art technology, and peerless customer service. 
Fidelity offers market-competitive compensation, and comprehensive benefits packages including health, insurance, and retirement, as well as a variety of work life programs. Fidelity Investments is an equal opportunity employer. 
jobs.fidelity.com 

THE BEST MINDS. THE BEST OPPORTUNITIES. 


Monday, September 19, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles take it easy in meet at ND 
Feauto and Otto run side-by-side as team captures 15th in NCCs 
Hy KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
Boeky Foauto and Sara Otto ran sidt~-by-sidn, loading the Bollos to a 1!ith-plaeo finish in tho 2Mh annual National Catholic Cross Country Invitational Saturday. 
Bollns runners Fnauto and Otto finishnd the five-kilome­tnr run baek-to­
wore almost idontieal to Saint Mary's best last year, as standout Megan Gray ran a 20:29 in the 2004 race. 
The Bolles ran with schools from nvory division of women's running but were only timed against schools in Divisions II and Ill and the N/\1/\. 
Formnr head coach of nine ynars and current assistant coach Dave Barstis said the Bolles looknd at tho moot as preparation for their upcom­ing conferen.ee schedule. 
"Traditionally, we view this meet as a warm-up to our eonference meet, which is next weekend," he said. "It's more of a workout for us than it is a true raee." 
Last year, the Belles also finished 1 !ith in the compnti­tion. 
This year, Elizabeth 
baek on tho 
"We view this meet

grounds of the 
as a warm-up to our

Burko Mnmorial Notrn Damn Golf conference meet ... Cours11 in 20:31 
It's more of a workout 

and 20:32, 
for us than it is a

rnspoctively, for No. 42 and No. true race." 4:{ in the women's eollngn 
Dave Barstls

division. The times 
Belles assistant coach 

Johnson's time of 21:32 was good for No. 91 overall, and Alieen Miller fin­ished in 98th at 
21 :40. For the Belles, the race was their only "home" meet of the season, and their fans took 
full advantage of it. 
Two Saint Mary's students donned. the school's Belle­head costumes and cheered on the Belles along the course route. 
Saint Mary's head coach Jackie Bauters was thrilled to have tho support. 
"It was great to have them out there," she said. 
Barstis said the crowd was part of the advantage for the eross-county tnam to partid­patn in a racn so dose to their campus. 
"The Belle-heads, they're typically more at the [homoI basketball games and soccer games," he said. "They've come out for us tho last cou­ple years, which is really great. It's that whole home­meet sprit." 
Barstis said the main thing the Belles worried about in the race was avoiding injuries, which they did. 
"This course is a little rough around the edges," he said. "The rough is really rough, and we worry about ankles turning." 
Barstis said the times might have been somewhat slower than the team could have run, but the coach viewed the event as successful. 
"We had a hard week," he said. "We were on the track, we ran hills this week, so they're running on tired legs. 
"For us, traditionally the times are slow, but it's because of that -because they're tired. You'll see much more favorable times next week when we taper." 
The Belles travel to Grand Hapids, Mich. Saturday to eompete in the nine-team MIM Jamboree. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Megan Mattia leads teatn in N ortnal, Ill. 
By JORDAN BELTZ 
Spons Writer 

The Bolles went into the weekend riding a huge emotion­al high after their conference opening vietory on Wodnesday, and parlayed that confidence into a solid performance at the Illinois Wesleyan Fall Classic in Normal, Ill. 
The Belles came out of the Fall Classic with an 11 th-plaee finish, besting 13 other schools. In two rounds, the Belles shot a 644 composite score, just two 
• strokes back of a top-1 0 finish. Depauw, a bitter rival of the Belles, took home the title after shooting a 601 composite score. Other notable finishes indud­ed the host school Illinois Wesleyan Titans squad finishing second, while the University of Indianapolis came into the dub­house fourth. 
As has been the norm all sea­son long, senior Megan Mattia set the pace for the Belles. She fired a 77 -stroke first round and a 78 second round for 155 total, good enough for a No. 17 over­all finish. Kirsten Fantom shot a 158, which put her in a tie for No. 29. Hounding out the top five for the Belles were Katie O'Brien (No. 53), Nicole Bellino (No. 66) and Erin McQuoni1 (No. 
IB!. 
"We wern a little disappointnd with the way wn finishnd." Mattia said. "We got bnat by a few teams that we should hn beating. We are del'initely steadily improving as tlw snason moves on, so we should bn abln to finish strong." 
The Belles arn currently ranked No. 4 in the latnst Division-Ill wonwn's golf poll. They have put together strong middle-of-the-pack f'inishns in the larger invitationals that they have playnd in thus far, and nmt~rgnd victorious from thnir only conference match of the season to date. 
"We're ready to go out lli1Xt week and dominate," Mattia said. "Wo're going to show that we can play as wnll as we know that we can." 
The Belles arn looking to wrap up the rnmainder of their regu­lar season on a high notn with their nnal two confnrnnce matches this wenk. They travel to Olivnt College Wodnesday, and then they bring the regular season to a eonelusion on Saturday at Adrian Collegn. 
The MIAA Championships will be hold Oct. 7-8, at a sitn to bn determined. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu 

TEACH 
AMERICA www. teachfo ra meri ca .o rg 

MONDAY SEPTEMBER 19 DEBARTOLO HALL 118 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 20 DEBARTOLO HALL 131/140 
7:00PM 

Full salary and health benefits. Seeking all academic majors. No education courses or experience required. 
Page 24 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday,September 19 ,2005 
t 
~ 
I. 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
Kate Watson: 
3.65 GPA Road Tripper Sports Fanatic"' Is Welcome Here 
Your life. You can br~ng ~t \tvith you. Learn more about Kate and teH us more about you visit pwc.com/bringit 


*connectedthinking 


i!.J 20GS Pric~\Vf.rtedlouseCoopars U . .P A!l rl9hts reserved. f'Prk;~;.ru.:.terfr(.">UseC~.;opa;sn reien~ to Poce--NaterhcuseGo::.)i,'}€r~~ U . .P (a fX:lav•tare llmaed hat~mty partnershlp} Qr. as. Hl~ ~~ontext reQUHet:;, other member firn1S of PncewaterhouseCoopers lnt-ernat:onal Urnlted. ear;t1 fJf .wtnct: :sa separat~ anfi :ndepenQent entity. "'conne~:-:.ledU:inking is .3 i.raderr:ark of Price-.·vate?"hcusaCcopers U.P {USJ. \/Ve ,3fe proud to i:Je an Affinnat.ive l\Ct.ior: and Equal Oppcrh.mity EmpJ~Jyer. 
r------------------------------­
Monday, September 19, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Michigan 
continued from page 2H 
tlw way. 
Kl'r~y llanks and Kalin Thorlaskon Pal'h scorl'd twien and had two assists apin1~1'. 
Th1• Sl'oring got und1•rway early at X:fi I wlwn Thorlakson sr:ornd her Sf'Vf'nth goal of tlw Sl'ason, lll'ating goaltender Sarah Wl'st ofT a pass from AnniP Sdwf'tl'r. 
At I :l:O:l, llanks found Alllanda Cinalli, who !'ired a shot past l>nl'aul goalt11nder Sarah Wnst. jump­ing out to a quiek 
On Sunday, the Irish eame right baek and knocked oil' the No. 20 Wolwrinns in a game in . which, like Friday, Notrn Damn nstablislwd its supnriority from the beginning. 
Michigan only had throe shots on goal t.hn entirl' ganw, and tlw Irish killed many of t.hn seoring chancns tho Wolvnrinns had with strong dnfnnsiv11 play. 
Thnir strong del'nnse soomed to bring out ti)P worst in Michigan, who tried to take the Irish out of the game by getting into their heads. This resulted in a Christie Shaner yellow card at 
85:53 wlwn tho game was very mueh out of Michigan's roach. 
Goaltender
2-11 lnad. 
"You don't want to

Thn scoring did­Lauren Karas and 
be backing down

n't stop thnrn, as Hanks also Notre Damn con­from teams, you received yellow tinumt to pitn it on cards in the game.
want to send that 

against its new "I thought defen­
message, so

Big East oppo­sively we were rwnts. physically you really good today," Houghly three Waldrum said. "I
want to do that." 

rninutos later at think if there was 16:24, Thorlakson any disappoint­took a llanks Randy Waldrum ment, it was some mbound and beat Irish coach of the stuff that 

At 22:1 0, Thorlakson booted a corner kiek towards the net, and Jen Buczkowski took a setup from Christie Shaner and head­ed it into the net. 
Notre Dame continued apply­ing pressure with the 1-0 lead, creating scoring opportunities while Michigan was forced to play a defensive game. 
Maggie Manning made it a two-goal contest at 36:14 when she beat Wolverines' goaltender Megan Tuura on a shot from the left side. Thorlakson and Brittany Bock assisted on the goal. 
The game was put out of reach at 71:38 when Susan Pinnick put the ball in the back of the net for her third goal or the season. 
Much like two weekends ago against Maryland, Notre Dame missed on several scoring opportunities, but Waldrum was not concerned with that aspect of the game. 
"''m not at a point where we are worried about that now. I think its just the nature of the game," Waldrum said. "I think the thing that Wflre doing that 
Wost for her sec­ond goal of the gamo. Hanks was credited with tho assist. 
Jon Buezkowski scored the fourth goal of the game at 26:10, taking a West deflection and putting it in the back of the net. 
The seeond hall' was much of the samo, with llanks scoring hnr 12th and 13th goals of' the season within two minutes of' nach other, at 48:59 and 50:43. 
Waldrum was pleased with his tnam's pnrformance Friday, espec~ially in the context of get­ting its first conference win of thn soason. 
"I think thn eonfenmee is sueh a good 1~onl'nrnnee now that you ean't rnally take anyono for granliHI." Waldrum said. "In ganws that we feel like wn should win, you want to makn surn you'rn winning it and get­ting a handln on it." 
happened in the 
second half. A team like that, that's the only way they ean take you out of the game. 
"You don't want to be backing down from teams, you want to send that message, so physically you want to do that. But at the same time you want to be smart enough too so that you don't get a player ejeeted." 
Thorlakson agreed with her eoaeh but was not surprised at what transpired on the field. 
"We're gonna face that all year," Thorlakson said. "Teams are gonna look for a way to !beat usl. and that's a strategy that some teams are gonna take." 
Notre Dame started off slow, missing an early seoring oppor­tunity when Thorlakson missed left al'tnr beating a defender, but Notrn Dame responded quickly thnrnal'tnr. 
on the outside many people look at it and say that they should worry that they didn't finish enough of their chances. If you look at our team we're aetually I think leading the nation in goals scored per game. 
"I would worry more if we weren't creating the opportuni­ties that I am about not finish­ing." 
After Sunday's game, Waldrum spoke about the way the Irish season has gone thus far, and is comfortable with the current direction that the team is heading in. 
"We're on traek of where we need to be," Waldrum said. "''d be worried if we were peaking right now, it's a little early for that but I think we're playing really well." 
It was also important for the Irish to respond with a strong performance this weekend, proving the loss last weekend is a distant memory. 
"That was unlucky last week­end," Thorlakson said. "This weekend we were just building on our confidence that we had all season. Sometimes it just 
doesn't go our way." 
After the dominanee the Irish displayed against DePaul and Miehigan, it was dear that this weekend, it did. 
Notes: 
+ Waldrum spoke after the Michigan game about the Notre Dame-Michigan rivalry and the type of attitude that it brings to the game's atmosphere. 
"Its kinda like football," he said. "I guess it's the same rival­ry just being so close and the two institutions having such tra­dition. I think that translates into all of our sports here." 
The Wolverines spoiled the Irish 2003 season, ending Notre Dame's undefeated run and then knoeking them out of the NCM tournament in the span or roughly two weeks. 
"I think that was a motivation last year for the kids, and then this year espedally gotting thnm back home," he said. "I think thn motivation is always tlwrn with Michigan." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 


INTERNATIONAL GOLF 

Campbell victorious in World Match Play 
ahead of Hntinf Cooson.

US Open chmnpion 
Campbell beat the South beats Paul McGinley African in thn semifinals Saturday.
to winfinal match Campbell won tho opening hole and rwver trailed, but Associated Press also never led by more than one through the morning VIHGINlA WATEH, England round. lie was 3 up aftnr 2] 
U.S. Open champion holns, but his Irish rival won 
Michael Campbell  t.lw  24th, 25th  
won  the  World  and  27th  to  
Mateh  Play  square  tho  
Championship  on  "Ifthis was a  mateh.  Thny  
Sunday, defeating Paul McGinley 2 and 1 in the final by  stroke play event I'd have been well  were with play.  still even four to  
capitalizing on  his  ahead because I  "I didn't play  
opponent's errors in the dosing holes. Campbell wra­ played so well the first three da.lJS.  as well today as I had tlw first thr1111  
pped up the match at Wentworth with a chip to one foot of thf1 eup on thn 35th  But that's the way it goes. Michael played well today. "  days," McC­inley said. "If this was a stroke play  
green. He  won  the  1went I'd  have~  
33rd and 34th holes when McGi-nley bogeyed after poor  Paul McGlnely golfer  bnnn well ahnad becaus11 I played so well  

shots. 
"I was fortunate to win those holes," Campbnll said. 
Campbell earned $1.8 mil­lion, the largest prize in golf. 
The  New  Zealander  also  
advanced  to  tlw top of the  
European  Order  of  Merit  

thn first thrne 
days. But that's tlw way it goPs. Mich ani played well today." 
MeCinlny also f'inishnd sne­ond at the BMW Championship on the samn eours11 in May to Angnl Cabrnra. his sPmil'inal victim at this nvnnt. 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 19, 2005 
NCC 
continued from page 28 
the National Catholic Championship. 
On the women's side, Irish sophomore Sunni Olding out­ran Loyola's (Md.) Andrew Rovegno and won the five­kilometer race in 17:42. Notre Dame won overall with 48 
"We did mile repeats here on Tuesday," he said. "We did five, 1-mile repeats, the entire course. Knowing the course and having been out here with my teammates before really helped." 
Irish sophomore Brett Adams bested Duquesne freshman Josh Eddy in the last 100 yards to finish fourth, but Dukes sophomore Tom Slosky pulled away from a pack including Irish runners Dan 
points to second place Duquesne's 101. 
The meet was the brainchild of coach Joe Piane in 1980 and is hosted annually by Notre Dame at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. This year's version featured 35 teams and more than 300 com­petitors. 
"By the last mile you know ifthey're tiring or not. I knew he was hurting, so I took offwith a mile to go. " 
Pat Smyth Irish runner 

Bradley and Chris Rodriguez to finish ninth and become the third Duquesne runner in the top 10. 
Bradley and Rodriguez fin­ished in 11th and 12th, man­aging to stay just ahead of Duke senior Kevin Borelli. 
That left Notre 
Smyth won the men's race 
with a time of 24:36, a full 14 seconds ahead of Horvat. The ·two ran neck-and-neck for the first four miles, but Smyth pulled away during the fifth 
mile. 
Smyth said his experience 
running in similar one-on-one 
situations in high school 
helped during his battle with 
Horvat. 
"You can kind of feel [your 
opponent] out," he said. "By 
the last mile you know if 
they're tiring or not. I knew he 
was hurting, so I took off with 
a mile to go." 
Smyth also credited his late 
race success to working out at 
Burke during the week. 
Dame ahead by one point after four runners had come in for each team, but a hard charge by Irish freshman Mark Moore came up four seconds and two places behind Duquesne sen­ior Zach Dorman. 
For the second straight meet, Piane sent out a young lineup made up of freshmen and sophomores in an effort to rest his more experienced runners for later competition and get his inexperienced run­ners more race time. 
Sophomore Mike Popejoy and freshman Kevin Vaselik ran along with Smyth, Adams, Bradley, Rodriguez and Moore for the Irish men. 
It is important for freshmen to learn how to run an 8K race instead of the shorter 5K. 
"You can't go out too hard or your going to tire at the end of the race more than you would with a 5K," Smyth said. 
Smyth also commented on the transition in training from high school cross-country to college. 
"The whole team has been pushing me to limits I've never been pushed to before in my running career," he said. 
The Irish women had a much easier time, cruising to a victory with a more experi­enced lineup. 
Olding, a former All­American, won the race. Senior Elizabeth Webster was the next Irish runner across the line in sixth place with a time of 18:08. Next for Notre Dame was junior Ann Mazur, who finished 11th with a time of 18:24. 
Then the Irish pack came in, with six runners -senior Jean Marinangeli, sophomore Julie Opet, freshman Becca Bauman, junior Katie DeRusso, senior Loryn King and junior Amy Kohlmeyer ­finishing within 20 seconds and nine places of each other. 
This huge group of Irish pushed back the fourth and fifth runners for both Duquesne and third place Xavier and helped Notre Dame win going away. 
Loyola finished fourth, fol­lowed by Dayton, Bellarmine and the College of St. Benedict. 
On the men's side, Xavier finished a distant third, fol­lowed by Lewis, Dayton and Loyola. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Tigers 
continued from page 28 
1) lost. They fell 28-30, 22-30, 30-23, 30-26, 18-20 to LSU (1 0-1) in an instant classic Sunday morning. 
"I thought we did a really good job of coming back," Brown said. "It was a battle. We came up on the short end unfortunately." 
On Friday, Notre Dame eased past Tulane {1-2) 30­23, 30-26, 30-26 in what Brown called another "sloppi­ly" played match. 
"We were really not pleased at all with the way we played on Friday even though we won," she said. "That sloppi­ness sometimes carries over." 
It carried over well into Sunday morning. 
The Tigers outplayed the Irish in most facets of the game. The Irish, who are the only Division-! team ranked in the top 10 in both digs and blocks, faltered on defense for much of the day. 
LSU beat Notre Dame in those categories. One stand­out on defense, though, was sophomore libero Adrianna Stasiuk, who had 25 digs ­the third time this season she has accomplished the feat. 
The Tigers also had 25 more kills than the normally domi­nant Irish. 
Notre Dame freshman Mallorie Croal had a career­high day. She smashed 19 kills and hustled for 16 digs. She added four blocks to her strong outing. Senior Lauren Brewster got her fair share of kills, as well, with 14. Fellow senior Lauren Kelbley had 10 kills, while Meg. Henican and Carolyn Cooper combined for 14 more. 
While the defense sputtered at times, the offense was effective, besides being out­blocked. Notre Dame had more service aces than errors,· and it served at an incredibly accurate 94.6 per­cent efficiency rate in the match. 
On Friday, the Irish played an emotional Green Wave squad. Tulane had not played a match in a little under three weeks. Still, Notre Dame swept the Wave to improve to 7-0. Kelbley pounded 15 kills. She led the team with 21 points, hit at a season-high mark [.4121 and smacked her kills without a single error. 
Stasiuk played at outside hitter instead of playing at libero and had 19 digs. 
Just as they were in Sunday's match, the Irish were at the top of their serv­ice game against the Wave. They registered 12 aces. 
With the win and a nail biter of a loss, the Irish aren't moping around. They're still off to one of the best starts in school history. 
"We win as a team, and we lose as a team," Brown said. "[After the weekend matches] I think we just talked about maximizing the opportunities we have out on the court. Whether it's at practice or whether it's playing [in a match!. Every time we get on the court we have to be get­ting better; we have to be get­ting smarter." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

Fremantle, Australia 
Information Meeting 
Tuesday,Sept.20,2005 5·:30-7:.00 PM Room 141 DeBartolo 
!students in the College of AL & BA onlyl 

Application Deadline: November 15, 2005 for Fall 2006 and Spring 2007 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 


Monday, September 19, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 
Do add cold ice to drinks Don't adelfunkycolel medina 
Till~ l_.;.,N'T Y( ltrH. 


FRATHO{T!>o.E 

CROISSANTWORLD 
These are the only clathes I own. 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NUKKS 

rJ I I I 
«:>2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ROATA 
1 

rJ 
FOLFAY 

I I I 
www.jumble.com 
PANUCK l 
page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT THE SAILOR EXPERIENCED WHEN HIS BROKEN LEG HEALED. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

• 
ACROSS 30 Irish accent 58 Snooped, with "around"

1 Gentlemen 31 Hits a golf ball tipped theirs to to the side, e.g. 60 Gershwin's "_ ladies, once Plenty o' Nuttin'"
32 Burn on the 5 Home 61 Active sort
outside improvement 
62 Knocks dead 
33 Sunnyside up

pro Bob 
servings 63 Ball hit out of 

9 Boxing ring 
bounds
36 "The Simpsons"

boundaries 
storekeeper 64 Top draft level 

14 1970's tennis 
65 Up to the

champ Nastase 37 Roster of 
present
enemies

15 Figure skater's 
66 Noted Art Deco

jump 40 Granola bit 
illustrator 

16 God, in the 41 Four-poster and 
67 Not, in dialect

Koran others 
17 F.D.R.'s dog 43 Window ledge DOWN
18 Irritated state 
44 Hooch 
1 Old 45 player

19 "Silly" birds 
46 How cough 
2 "Too bad!"

zo "Do tell!" syrup is taken 
3 Pinball game

23 Sailor's 
48 Shakespearean 
ender

affirmative 
verse 
4 Seattle football 

24 With 
49 Barely enough 
player

competence 51 Warrior princess 5 To a huge
25 Greets with 
of TV degree

gales of laughter 52 Buffalo's 6 Slangy no summer hrs.
27 Be that as it 7 Mariner may 53 "Do tell!" Ericson a Bar in the front ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE of a church 9 Motley, as an army 10 Bullring cheer 11 "Do tell!" 12 High mark with low effort 13 Ghost costume, basically 21 Bring shame to -:-:+~:::+::&.;rl 22 Beer from Golden, Colo. 
-=+~+.:,.fll!l-:-+-:-:+=+:-:i 26 Regret 27 "Moby Dick" 
-:-t:-:+=+:=+::::+-:+:--t-::-+=:-1-:l captain 
-=.L-=-.t...:...L::...J...:..:..t..=:..J..-=:-'--=-.I..:..:.:..'-=-' 28 Yep's opposite 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

29 "Do tell!" 30 Word before dance or laugh 32 Painting of a 
fruit bowl, e.g. 34 Long look 35 Leave in, as text 38 Religion of the 
Koran 
39 New York strip 51 Strikes through alternative 
54 Compose.r42 Lanka 

Stravinsky 45 Interminably 
55 College in New 47 In the thick of Rochelle, N.Y. 
48 Agree out of 56 -do-well 
court 57 Confederate

49 High-1.0. club uniform color
50 Fanzine profilees 59 Hurricane hub 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City __________ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: James Marsden, 32: Jada Pinkell Smith, 34; James Gandolfini, 44: Fred Willard. 66 
Happy Birthday: You will have a rare opportunity to do something special this yem·, so don't second-guess your ability. This year is all about facing a challenge. Don't focus on winning or losing, but on how you play the game of life. Put your fears aside. Your numbers are 7, 25, 26, 34, 39, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Put yourself in someone else's shoes and you will get a better perspective of the situation you face and how to handle it. You have plenty of discipline and drive--it's unlikely anyone will surpass you. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do odd jobs around home that m·e long overdue. Achance to socialize with friends will lead to a new interest. Love is in a high cycle and your passionate mood will be reciprocated.*** GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Take part in an event that includes people from all walks of life. Your contributions will raise your pro rile in your community. Be careful while traveling to avoid a minor mishap. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Today you must be gracious and accommodate loved ones in any way possible. You may not be happy about it, but your good deeds will be repaid when you need it the most. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have a good eye when it comes to 1ixing up your place. Travel will not be a waste of time. Money that you don't expect is headed your way. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take care of emotional matters quickly and efficiently. Don't let your whole day be wasted by someone who is selfish and conniving. Travel may be necessary; do not drive fast or take chances.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Partnerships may be taking a few uncertain turns. Sit back and listen--lately you've only been hearing what you want to hear and seeing what you want to see. You need to view the whole picture.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can resolve issues, tin ish projects or just spend the day romancing the one you love. Regardless of the choice you make, progress will be yours. Picturing your future will help you. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take a trip that will bring you knowledge -:. --a pilgrimage that will change your way of thinking. Now is the time to question your past and your present so that you can do what's best in the future. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may be thinking rationally, but no one around you will be. Look out for yourself and don't waste your time and effort on people who really don't want to hear it. ** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You need a change in your life. Develop a concept or innovative idea you have been mulling over. Today is ahout getting your ideas otT the ground. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Achance to come into money or to make a good deal is present. An unusual acquaintance will surprise you. Redecorating your 
-~ 
space will make a ditlerence to your outlook. *** 
Birthday Baby: You know how to play the game of life. You are bright, <U1iculate and forceful in all that you do. but sometimes it's that innocent and vulnerable side that you hide so well that's needed. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, cugenialast.corn for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, September 19, 2005 page 28 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Taming the Wolverines 
Notre Dame sends message to the country; wins twice this weekend 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
After losing to Santa Clara last weekend in California, the Irish sent a very clear message to every team in the country this weekend -one loss will not slow them down. 
The Irish dominated DePaul Friday night and beat Michigan Sunday, outscoring their oppo­nents 9-0 combined. 
"I think it sends a message· around the country that the loss doesn't affect us and that we're still there," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. 
On Friday night, the Irish came out lirnd up in their first Big East conference game of the season and defeated the Blue Demons 6-0 in a game that Notre Dame controlled from the beginning. Familiar faces led 
see MICHIGAN/page 25 

MEN'S SOCCER ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish 111en fall short in NCC's 
Notre Dame second by one; women cruise 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Patrick Smyth left everything he had on the course. 
The Notre Dame freshman exploded through the last mile to run away from Duquesne junior Chris Horvat to win the individual title at the National Catholic Championships in his first career race Friday. 
Smyth's effort was not enough, however, as Duquesne placed three runners in the top ten to edge a young Irish men's roster 45-46 and take the team title. It was the first time in 10 years Notre Dame did not win 
see NCC/page 26 

Notre Dame splits weekend series in Empire State 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 

New York City can be an unwelcoming place. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team has learned this lesson many times, as the Irish have not won a game at St. John's in pro­gram history. That trend contin­ued Friday as Notre Dame fell 2­1 to the Red Storm -but bounced back Sunday to hand Syracuse its first defeat of the season with a 1-0 road victory. 
Notre Dame got off to a slug­gish start in its first Big East 
MEN'S GOLF 
Gustafson leads team to No.5 overall finish 
teams, the team's fifth top-5
Irish are upset about 
finish in its last eight appear­results despite fifth ances. 
Notre Dame totaled an 893 
top five in eight tries (309-297 -287), and its Sunday score was tied with Washington with the second
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 

best round all weekend, sec­
Associate Sports Editor ond to Minnesota's 284 round on Saturday. Irish coach Jim Kubinski did Going into the weekend, not know what to expect from Kubinski anticipated that driv­the course at the Gopher ing the ball well would be a Invitational, unaware of how huge !'actor in the team's per­the new layout would play, and formance. Notre Dame quickly found out However, after arriving at that it would be much different the course and seeing the bot­than it had anticipated. tleneck fairways, it was clear Notre Dame responded by 
finishing No. 5 out of 12 see GOPHER/page 20 
., 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY NO WOMEN'S CREW 
LLI 

s 
Co) Belles finish No. 15 at Irish satsified with z the National Catholic their weekend perform-Championships. ance in the regatta. 
= 
cc: 
=: 

page 23 page 19 
match up of the year, as St. John's set the pace early. In the 13th minute, Matt Groenwald beat Irish goalkeeper Chris Cahill from 16 yards out to give the Red Storm a 1-0 lead. 
Notre Dame had a chance to tie the game with 11:20 left in the first half. John Stephens took a shot ofT of a rebound of a Greg Dalby free kick, but Red Storm goalie Jason Landers was there for the save. The play would prove to bn Notre Dame's only shot on goal in the game. 

Early in the second half, St. John's stretehed its lead to 2-0. In the 54th minute, Groenwald again beat Cahill -this time from just inside the box. 
The Irish then failed to convert on another scoring opportunity. Freshman striker Bright Dike received a long pass from Stephens and beat one defender, 
see JOHNNIES/page 20 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Tigers prove tough to handle 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
They lost. 
And they're still a tight-knit team -a team that's unde­feated in the Big East, a team that has beaten two top-1 0 teams and a team that, !'or one weekend, wasn't itself. 
"lt wasn't one of our better executing performances," Irish coach Debbie Brown said of her team's perform­ance Sunday against LSU. "It was a little bit sloppy. I still think that the fight was very good." 
Finally, after starting the season 7-0, the No. 81rish (7­
see TIGERS/page 26 


SMC SOCCER MlB 
11\!SH INSIDER
Belles shut out Albion Indians 11 
.."'"'m:;;s:;.:::::::s 
as Hinton scores twice Royals 0 
for Saint Mary's. The lrull ~back attempt fallt •hort
Cleveland extended its wild card lead to 1.5 at Micbip.n State wins in overtime. games with the win. 
y44 -4 1
page 19 page 17 






