~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
SMC dean to step down at year's end 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint M.try's Editor 
l'at White. thn Saint Mary's vicn presidPnt and dean of I' a 1: u I t y rPsponsiblo l'o r Ia un ch­i ng tlw College's Centl'r for A c a d " m i 1: Innovation and the CentPr for 

White

Women's lntereultural l.eadnrship ( C W II. ) , a n n o u n e tHI he w i II 
stop down at tho nnd of the academic year. 
Whitn, who has sMvod as dnan sinen fall 2002, said he will take a ynar-long sa bbati­cal "rnsearehing and writing" and will thnn join tho English 
dnpartmnnt  as  a  faculty  
mem bnr.  
Al'tnr  17  years  as  an  

administrator, Whitn said. he misses the classroom and daily intnraetion with stu­dents. 
"This is a great job," White said. "You arn working with gnmt pnople. It is an honor to be dean of faculty, but I have missnd the connection 
with students. It's time for rnn to write, to teach, to spnnd more limn working a little more elosely with tho students." 
As a young acadnmic teach­ing at PfeiiTor College -now Pfnif'fer University -in Miscnheimor, N.C., Whitn said a position at Saint Mary's was his "dream job." 
Although he never envi­sioned himself in an adminis­trative ol'f'ice, he decided to apply for an opening as Saint Mary's associate dean of fac­ulty in 1988. 
"All my life I had known about Saint Mary's Collnge 
and it was such a good school and I thought, 'I am going to apply for this job,"' White said. "I came for the interviews and I fell in love with the place." 
White also said hn was deeply impressnd by the inquisitive and artieulate stu­dent body. A question and answer snssion with students whiln he was intnrviewing, he said, was toughnr than those hn faced from the fac­ulty. lie remembnrnd one student in particular who stood up and asked him 
see DEAN/page 8 

Sisters show Saint Mary's pride 
Nuns attend athletic events, cheer on Belles 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Sainr Mary's Editnr 
Shn  donsn 'I.  wear  short  
skirts.  
Slw  dons n 't  s ha ke  po m  - 
poms.  

Slw will nnvnr do bounding handsprings across the court. 
Nnvnrthelnss, Sistnr Viola Marin Byrnes is well known as Saint Mary's most vibrant and vocal dwnrlnadnr. 
In recent ynars the rntired SistiH' of the lloly Cross has btH'Oilln a fixture on campus, riding around on an athletic dt~partnwnt golf cart and chnm·ing from tho sidelines at homo ganws. 
With fewer and fewer Sistnrs filling positions at thn Collngn, tho visibility of Byrnt'S and a fnw other Sistnrs at compntitions has inspired st.udnnt athlntns and providnd thmn with a portal to a past ora. 
A lifeline 

One of nine children, Byrnes loved to play sports as a girl, particularly basketball, volley: ball and baseball. The Logan, Utah native dneided to join the Sisters of the lloly Cross as a young woman and arrived at Saint Mary's in 1951 to take elasses. 
In 1954 she left the College and went" out on mission, embarking on what would turn out to be a lil'elong career of teaching. Assigned elasses as large as 50 first or second gradf1rs, Byrnes worked in Catholic schools in California, Washington, Utah, Idaho and Texas. 
Wh11rnver she placed, she was always a big supporter of athletics. 
"I went to the soccer, basket­ball and baseball games," Byrnes said. "I was vnry active with the children." 
see SISTERS/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Orange dots ND ca111pus 
'Fine By Me' shirts show support, pride 
By SARAH WHEATON News Writer 
The color orange will spnckl11 Notre Damn's campus once again today as students and faculty show their support for alternative Jifnstyles by wnaring "Gay? Finn By Mn" shirts pro­vided by mnrnb11rs of AlliancnND. 
The student group, which has not been formally recognized by the UnivPrsity, focuses on issues of sexuality and tolnr­ance. Members said they dis­tributed about 250 new T-shirts in preparation for today's event, which is eo-sponsored by the sociology department. An nstimated 2,500 shirts havn benn distributnd to nwmbnrs of the Notre Dame community since tho inception of the cam­paign in spring 2004. 
Graduate student and group eo-coordinator Anna Gomberg said she believes demand for the shirts has not want~d. 
"A lot of faculty and staff wanted the shirt this time around," she said. 
AlliancnND said in a press release that "wearing tho shirt indicates support and accept­ance of Notre Damn's gay, les­bian, bisnxual, transgender, queer and qunstioning ((;LBTQ) community and its allies." 
"The main purpose of thesn ovonts is continuing campus dialogue on GLBTQ issues," it said. 
"It's important f(Jr students to 
see SHIRTS/page 4 



ND, Palestinian students confer 
By JANICE FLYNN 
N,w, Writn 
In a pilot program spon­sort~d by t.hn State Departnwnt, ninn Notrn Damn studt~nts partieipatnd in an informal vidno confPr­nJH:n with Palt~stinian univer­sity studPnts early WtHIIlnsday morning, a con­versation that focused on student lifo but quickly turnl'd to a genial discussion about .Jerusalem's political climate and Wnstern and Islamic perceptions of the other. 
Tho Notre l>anw students, whoso majors and travel his­tory reflect tlwir keen inter­est in world affairs, are stu­
see VIDEO/page 8 


SENATE 

Group discusses ad, business agreements 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 

Dirm:tor of administrative serv­ices for the University Dan Skendzel explainnd Notre Dame's agreements with TRANSPO and FedEx Kinko's to senators at Wednesday's Student Senate meeting. which also heard contin­ued backlash about the University spot "Candle." 
"We're seeing this as a long term relationship" between FedEx Kinko's and the University, Skendzel said. "We see FedEx Kinko's as being able to grow with the University." 
lit~ said the Univnrsity decided this summnr to choose FndEx Kinko's, located on campus in Grace llall and ofT campus on State Hoad 23, for its expnrtisn, pricing and conwmience. Tlw Grace Hall Kinko's aceepl'> Domnr Dollars and can relml'>O print jobs ordered from a dorm room or othnr campus location. 
Whiln the Gracn llall Kinko's ·is currently opnn from 8 a.m. to 4 
p.m. on weekdays, Skendznl said there will be weekend hours as well as expanded weekday hours. 
"But I don't have a timetable on that," he said. 
see SENATE/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Whirlwind weekend 
I was supposed to get my driver's license this weekend. · 
Then again, I was supposed to keep my necessary certificates safe so the beautiful bureaucracy that is the New York State Department of Ken Fowler Motor Vehicles would let me take the road test. Sports Writer 
At 3:20a.m. Friday, after 13 hours of travel that included a three­hour flight delay and diversion from the friendly confines of LaGuardia Airport in Queens to New Jersey's Newark International, I couldn't find the certificate showing that I took the appropriate 5-hour beginner drivers' class. 
After a few hours of sleep and a couple more of searching, I resigned myself to the fact that it was nowhere to be found. The driving school that had my records was closed, and my road test was within hours. I went to the test site anyway, knowing I would be denied. 
I was right in my assumption. 
When I got home, I figured I had to make the most of the two days home. I mean, the plane tickets cost $161. The bus was another $57. Meals at Midway and LaGuardia, about $20. Overall, my two-day, three-night voy­age home cost me nearly $240. Plus, the travel had been hellacious, and I had failed my weekend's main goal. 
I was not going to allow the days to go to waste, so first things first. 
I threw on a bathing suit, grabbed my fins, and walked about a quarter­mile to the south-facing ocean beach of my hometown. It was the first time in a little more than a month I had been there, and I was dying to catch a few waves. 
Lucky for me, the sunny day's air was about 75 degrees and the water about 65. And despite an onshore wind, the waves were breaking clean­ly and three to four feet -perfect for bodysu_rfing. 
Glory! 
I swam out to the surfers dropping in off the jetties and started catching waves of my own. I realized once again the thrill of lying prone on a wall of water as you fall over the face of a wave. 
A few times, I was a little reckless and took a few tumbles, but I'll take a few bruises and scrapes for the joy of bodysurfing any day -even a day that was a failure just hours before. 
After I exhausted my playful energy from constantly swimming out to the line of breakers, I caught one last wave a:nd called it a day. I put my fins in one hand, shoes in another and shirt over my shoulder. 
It was the beginning fall, and I felt like I was just starting summer. I was walking barefoot in on the street, salt water infiltrating my ears and eyes and sand up and down my now-not­so-tan legs. My smile was ear-to-ear as I walked home. 
Just 45 hours later, I wrote this col­umn in Midway amidst a cold September rain, thinking to myself, 'How soon can I schedule my next few road tests?' 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and mives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 29, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE CAMPUS STUDY SPOT? 



Madeline Murphy  Tommy Gruffi  Faustin Weber  
junior offcampus  freshman Dillon  freshman Keough  
"I can't tell you, because then everyone would start going there."  "Cavanaugh 258 with Jenn and Ann. ,  'There are study spots?"  

Anti-dueling law used to prosecute knife fighters 
MOUNT CLEMENS, Mich. -Five years into the 21st century, an 1846 anti-duel­ing law is being used to prosecute two cousins accused of getting in a knife fight. 
"The 1800s are alive and well in Mount Clemens," joked Dean Alan, who heads the Macomb County prosecutor's office war­rants division. It issued warrants Tuesday. 
Police say the cousins, ages 19 and 31, disagreed Monday over a $30 debt. 
The older man bran­dished a knife and chal-
TODAY 

a: 


Rachel Barretto Ryan Bradley Bridget Higgins 
freshman junior sophomore Cavanaugh Zahm Cavanaugh 
"The middle of "I3th floor, "The Bond 
North Quad when it's sunny. 

ning ticket from the Iowa Lottery's Hot Lotto game. 
"It's almost like you adopted a country and then they netted you $1.8 mil­lion," Bittok said Monday as he cashed in his ticket. "It doesn't happen any­where -I guess only in America." 
Bittok said he took the citizenship oath at the fed­eral building in Des Moines Friday then went shopping with his family. They stopped at a gas station to check his lottery ticket from the Sept. 21 drawing. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
:::1: 
!ci: 
LLI 
3: 
..... 

LLI 
lenged the younger man to fight outside their Mount Clemens home, and the younger man accepted, said Sheriff Mark Hackel. The teen was stabbed in the stomach. 
Man takes citizenship oath, wins lottery 
DES MOINES, Iowa-A man who immigrated from Kenya to the United States found prosperity beyond his expectations on the day he became a U.S. citizen. 
Shortly after Moses Bittok, of West Des Moines, took the oath of citizenship on Friday, he discovered he had a $1.89 million win-

TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
c( 
(.) 0 


HIGH 65 HIGH 58 HIGH 70 HIGH 74
.... 
LOW 40 LOW 38 LOW 46 LOW 52 
(f 

(f 
library~" Library, 2nd floor, left hand side." 
IN BRIEF 

Steve Coli, a writer for The New Yorker, will give the lec­ture "Inside the Hunt for Osama Bin Laden" today from 7 p.m. to 8:30 in the Jordan Auditorium of Mendoza College. 
Welsh Family will be hosting a Block Party for the Big Easy Thursday from 8 p.m. to mid­night. The party will take place behind Heckers. All students are welcome to enjoy free food, carnival games, campus bands, and a dunk tank. Donations will be accepted for the Hurricane Katrina Relief fund. 
The a capella ensemble Schola Antiqua of Chicago will perform tonight at 8 p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The group is dedicated to the study and performance of western liturgical chant and early polyphony. Tickets are free but must be reserved in advance by calling 631-2800. 
Student Union Board will sponsor Acoustic Cafe, featur­ing live performances from Notre Dame students, tonight from 10:00 to 11:55 p.m. in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. Admission is free to all students. 
Welsh Family, Alumni, Howard, and Badin Halls will host a campus-wide Game Watch on a Big Screen on South Quad this Saturday as ND takes on Purdue. There will be free glow in the dark neck­laces and popcorn. The event starts at kick-off and all stu­dents are invited to attend. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 77 HIGH 60 LOW 54 LOW 36 
Atlanta 85 I 67 Boston 70 I 59 Chicago 72 I 45 Denver 60 I 48 Houston 95 I 77 Los Angeles 85 1 62 Minneapolis 60 1 40 New York 76 I 66 Philadelphia 81 I 65 Phoenix 99 I 78 Seattle 70 I 56 St. Louis 80 148 Tampa 90 1 75 Washington 82 1 65 
, ' Thursday, September 29, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Chatnbers discusses diversity at Saint Mary's College 
Renowned African/Latina author visits campus, packs Vander Vennet Theater Wednesday in first lecture of series 
By MARY CONROY 
NewsWrirer 
Saint Mary's nxpnrinncnd a littln mon1 divnrsity Wndnnsday night as author Vnronica Chamlwrs kickPd of'f' thn llivnrsity SnriPs Program with a sp1~1'ch on "l>ivnrsity on Cam pus." 
Tlw lncturn, first in a snrins of' f'our. was sponsornd by the Of'f'ir:n of Mullirultural Affairs and l.lw Cn11tnr l'or Womn11's lntPrCultural Lnadnrship. Vandnr VPnrwt Tlwatnr in tho lownr lnvnl of' thn Student Cnntnr was f'ull to capacity as studnnts, far.ulty and staff' lined up to listnn to Cha.mhnrs's childhood tal1~s. nxpn-riPIH'P'i as a writ.Pr, trav­

Pl advnH­"You are not totally 
I.urps and dt~fined as you think dnvPlopllll'llt 
you are when you

of' hPr pPr­sonal vinw . grow up. of' divnrsily. 
Chamhnrs. 
Veronica Chambers 

an Af'rican/ 
author

l.atina, authornd h 0 0 k s Mama's c;irl . ()uinnHtnnra Mnans Sweet 15, and tlw soon-lo-bn-relnased l>ouhlo Dutch: A Cnlnhmtion of .lump Bopn, Bhynw, and SisLNiwod. She also wrote sev­eral hooks about ehildhood PXJ>Prilmcns. including Amistad Bising, Cnlia Cruz, and The 
NetiD Passwords 




Only the Strong Will Survive 
Q 
What is a strong password? 
A Strong Password is a difficult-to-guess password that you use with your NetiD to access insideND, Notre Dame email and shared storage spaces, such as NetFile. It is at least eight characters long, and is made up of upper and lowercase random letters, numbers, punctuation marks and other keyboard symbols. 
Q 
What is a weak password? 
A weak password is one that is short and easy to guess. 
Q 
What's an example of a weak password? 
Your first name followed by your dorm room number is an example of a weak password. 
Q 
What's an example of a Strong Password? 
myPWis1Uwg 
Q 
How can I remember a password that complex? 
It's a "passphrase" derived from "my password is one you won't guess. Remember the phrase; 
tt 

remember the password. 
Q 
How do I change to a Strong Password? 
Go to https://password.nd.edu, and follow the instructions. 

Why you must change your existing NetiD password to a Strong Password 
Qunon of Salsa. 

Born in Panama, raised first in England and then Brooklyn at ago five, Chambers had alrnady expnrinneed several dif'f'nrent cultures and lan­guagns before she cnternd Simon College at age 16. At this point, shn said she bnliovnd she could identi(y her­snlf as a young black Brooklyn girl. Chambnrs soon gained internships and began to write for s1weral nationally published magazines such as Seventeen and YM, and il was at this time she realized hnr self'-idnntifiea­tion began to change. 
"You arn not totally defined as you thi11k you are when you grow up." shn said. 
Through intern­ships and additional jobs, Chambnrs was abln to travel to Los Angnles. London and Japan. She said it was her experience in Japan in 2003 that drastically changed her porson­al view of' horse!!'. 
"In Japan Ill was known as an American, not Black, not African­American, and I 
liknd it," Chambers said. 
Arter sharing personal sto­rios, Chambors aimed her talk directly at the students in attendance. 
"If you have an interest reaching across lthel cultural lino, I you I have opportunity to 
build friendships here," she said. 
Chambers also told how her exporiences with other Americans of different back­grounds, hor work and her travel have influenced her writings and presentations. She reminded the listeners that even though we are all 

Americans, it is benn/1cial to at least familiar with other eth­nicities. 
"If there is a time to reach past lthe] awkwardness, this is the time," she said. "College is [thel place where topics come up and [the] safest place to dis­cuss topics -the eorporate scene doesn't care." 
Chambors concluded by encouraging studnnts to broad­on their exporienens with diversity through writing. 
"I am happy to help and give advice for those of you intnr­ested to be writers," shn said. 
Contact Mary Conroy at mconroOI@saintmarys.edu 
Why should I change to a Strong Password? 
(1) 
Weak passwords put sensitive and personal information at risk that can be used by identity thieves (you don't want strangers guessing your password and pretending to be you) ; 

(2) 
If you do not change to a Strong Password, your existing password will expire, disrupting your access to Notre Dame networked applications, including email and shared storage. 


Will all existing passwords expire at the same time? 
No. Passwords that have not been changed (to 
Strong Passwords) since July 5, 2005 will be 
randomly tagged for expiration sometime between 
now and the spring of 2006. 
How will I know that my password is set to expire? 
You will receive an email from the OIT, and you will 
have 30 days from the day of receipt to change to a 
Strong Password. Once you change your password 
to a Strong Password, you won't have to change it 
again for another 180 days. 
When it comes to Strong Passwords, will the 
University make exceptions for some campus 
computer users? 

No exceptions will be granted. 
F*:JUNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Office of Information Technologies http://oit.nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 29, 2005 
emphasizing the benefits to stu­game against Washington but is Tortorello said. "But I can see how about Notre Dame," Beatty said. dents who travel off campus for scheduled to run during the someone would say, 'What about "It's to attract applicants ... it's a

Senate 
service. "We also see it as a great Purdue game. academics? What about social jus­marketing tool. Our main audi­way to get students active in the Many senators complained that tice?' ... That's implying that peo­ence is middle class, white
continued from page 1 
community." last week's letter contained inac­ple around the country only know Catholics. It still hits its goal." 
He also noted that course pack­Skendzel said the University curacies and poor diction. This us for those two things." University Affairs committee ets will now be available through would be working to make sure week's letter, Others defended chair Matt Walsh said Beatty's the Hammes Bookstore unless TRANSPO buses were on time and addressed to vice the statement as point was the problem with the
"The point ofthe

professors print the packets transporting students "in a timely president of public necessary to the let­ad. 
through Decio. manner,"· urging senators to take affairs and com­commercial isn't ter's goal. "I think Notre Dame would be a Matt Erste, major accounts advantage of the system. munication Hilary supposed to make "I think that's the pretty bad school if we just got manager for FedEx Kinko's, said "There's no reason to be afraid Crnkovich, met point, though," white, middle class Catholic kids
me, as a Notre 

students would "hopefully" be of it," Skendzel said. "It's a new with much wider Pangborn senator to come here," Walsh said. "If I able to use the FedEx services experience." approval and was Dame student, feel and Diversity com­was in high school [and watched before winter break. In response to questions about described by more better about Notre mittee member Lisa this], I'd say, 'Maybe I'll go to BC 
Skendzel also discussed the adding the Castle Point apartment than one senator Raub said. "like you or Georgetown."'
Dame."

updated TRANSPO routes and complex as a stop on the routes, as "a vast improve­said, there's so Minority Affairs committee chair services available to students. He Skendzel told senators to send ment." much else here [not Rhea Boyd said from working in focused on The Sweep, which petitions to TRANSPO general But some sena­Drew Beatty shown in the ad]." the Office of Undergraduate links Notre Dame and Saint manager Mary McLain. tors still found Alumni senator Alumni senator Admissions she had seen how Mary's, and Route #7, modified "They generally change their issues with the let­Drew Beatty said he hard Notre Dame tries to recruit this year to include stops along the routes based on demand," ter's wording, thought senators minority applicants. Grape Road corridor. The routes Skendzel said. especially the line, "Notre Dame is were focusing too much on their "We need to do that," Boyd said. are free for Notre Dame and Saint Senators also discussed a a household term across the reaction to the ad and not its "And the commercial doesn't help Mary's students, faculty and staff. revised letter from the Diversity nation when it comes to two sub­objective. us do that." 
"We have been pleased at this committee criticizing the widely jects-Catholicism and football." "The point of the commercial point with our agreement with debated "Candle" ad, which did "I don't have a problem with isn't supposed to make me, as a Contact Maddie Hanna at TRANSPO," Skendzel said, not air during last weekend's that," O'Neill senator Steve Notre Dame student, feel better mhannal@nd.edu 

Shirts 
continued from page 1 
know that this is a safe place and that there are certain peo­ple that it is safe to talk to about these issues," Gomberg said. "The T-shirt days show our support for these individu­als in a highly visible way and shows that there are allies for them here, and if that is the only thing that comes of it, that's fine with me." 
Because AllianceND is not for­mally recognized as a club by Notre Dame, group members must think of cre­ative ways to [John] Jenkins will use this as Sydney College. an opportunity to show that he Wholley said she does not see cares for the voices of students fact that the ranking is viewed and that he is committed to an negatively as an issue. environment welcoming for all." "If by being intolerant the 
While some students may not Princeton Review means that be receptive to the message the we are resistant to moral rela­shirt sends, they are at least tivism, then I have no problem aware of the shirt itself. In past with the ranking," she said. years, some have designed simi­Kempf said that while he does lar shirts to wear with mes­not particularly support the sages like "Girls? Fine By Me." homosexual lifestyle, he does 
"Those [alternative] shirts are not necessarily think Notre just inspiration to work a little Dame is intolerant. more to make a case for why "Maybe [the idea behind the we're needed on campus," ranking is] true, but I don't see Renfro said. "If people are still us as being hostile to gays," he mocking sexuality and toler­said. "I've never asked anyone ance, then there is a problem." if they're gay and no one's 
Vilim said she asked me, so I don't think it's a 
thinks no matter big deal. I think it's a non-issue, 
advertise and run what the mes­and I think that's what the
'Tou have to start

their events. sage on the shirts are saying -live and Jet Sophomore with awareness to shirts, it is obvi­live." Alexander Renfro, bring tolerance. " ous the campaign Gomberg said she thinks the who serves as raises awareness. ranking reflects the attitude of director .of commu­"You can see by the University institutions, not
Alexander Renfro 

nications for the spin-off shirts the student body. Although the AllianceND, said director of that people are at Student Senate unanimously the group relies communications least thinking passed a resolution last year heavily on its Web about the issue," supporting official status for
AllianceND 

site, e-mail lists and word of mouth to advertise events like the T­shirt days. 
The shirts usually get a mixed reaction from the student body. Sophomore Josh Kempf and junior Meredith Wholley said they will not be wearing the shirt today. 
"I think the Catholic nature of ND doesn't support that, and I don't see it as a lifestyle I agree with," Kempf said. 
"I think the shirts have an ambiguous message," Wholley said. "There is a difference between loving someone for who they are and accepting actions that are sinful." 
Renfro said he will be wear­ing the shirt to show his support for the GLBTQ community. 
"Diversity is a h·uge issue at Notre Dame, and we are simply representing the level that deals with sexuality," he said. "You have to start with awareness to bring tolerance." 
Junior Laura Vilim said she will also be wearing the shirt. 
"I wish it had a stronger sen­timent-it's not just fine by me, it's completely acceptable by me," she said. 
Senior Peter Quaranta, a staunch shirt supporter, said he believes it helps send a positive message. 
"I think the shirt campaign is extremely effective because often people view hospitality for homosexual people as a taboo, and I think the mass numbers of people wearing shirts sends forth a symbol of hope," he said. "My hope is that [University President] Father 
she said. AllianceND, the group has been 
Acceptance of denied official club status by the homosexuality on Notre Dame's University multiple times. campus has been an issue of However, Out magazine -a hot debate in the past few national publication directed years. The Princeton Review, toward gay men -profiled which had previously ranked Notre Dame in their Sept. 2005 Notre Dame as the No. 1 cam­college guide as the No. 1 place pus where alternative lifestyles to go if you are gay and spiritu­are not an alternative, recently al. The magazine cited last bumped the University to the year's Queer Film Fest, produc­No. 2 spot behind Hampden-tion of plays like The Laramie 
Project and the T-shirt cam­paign as indicators of a more accepting campus. 
"I think we have a student body that is really supportive and working towards the goal 
. of making Notre Dame more tolerant, but structural changes need to occur," Gomberg said. 
Contact Sarah Wheaton at swheaton@nd.edu 


Interested in Law? 

Attend the 2005 NDLaw Fair 
October 5, 2005 McKenna Hall 11:00-3:00 
;),''''''''''''''''''''''''''"'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''~ 
Representatives from over 70 law schools will be available in an informal setting to answer questions and provide information to students about their law schools. 

Thinking abouT volunTeering afTer you graduaTe? 
H 




Consider Holy Cross 
Associa-tes~ 


Find ou-t why 15 No-tre Dame Seniors chose Holy Cross· Associa-tes las-t year 
Come visi-t us a-t -the No-tre Dame Pos-t­Gradua-te Service Fair, -tomorrow -from 5-Bpm a-t 1-he S-tepan Cen-terl 








ORLD & NATION 
Thur~day, September 29, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Female suicide bomber first in Iraq 
B/\CIII>AI> -A woman disguised in a man's robes and headdress slippod into a linn of' army rnrruits Wednosday and deto­natnd nxplosivos strappnd to hnr body. killing at lnast six rncruits and wounding :{5 -the first known suicidn attaek by a woman in Iraq's insurgnney. 
Tlw attack in Tal Afar rwar the Syri.an bor­dnr appearnd ainwd at showing that mili­tants could still strike in a town wlwre U.S. and Iraqi ofTm1sives drove out insurgents only two wnnks ago. A fnmale suicide borniH~r may havn lwnn dwsnn bocausn she eould get through r.lwekpoints-at which womnn arn rarnly snarehed -then don hnr disguisn to join thn linn of nwn. Iraqi oflicials said. 
Iraq's most notorious insurg<mt group, al­<)aida in Iraq. daimnd responsibility for tho att<u:k in an lntnrrwt statement, saying it was 1:arriml out by a "blossnd sis tor." 
Chernobyl yields radioactive find 
KII~V. Ukraine -Ukrainian authoritios found radioactivn matorial believed stolen from tho now-defunct C.hernobyl nuclear pownr plant a dncado ago, an ofl1cial said WNlrwsday. 
Snrurity offknrs diseoverod a plastic bag with 14 pineos of nudear fuel during a rou­tinn soareh of tho damaged reaetor's perime­tnr last wonk. said plant spokesman Stanislav Slwktnla. Tho pineos indudod part of a fuel wd and small pipos. 
lin said tho radioactive material "was probably missing sineo I1195," when a group of pnople was arrested and eonvieted of stnaling nuclear fuel from the destroyed r·eador's central hall. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Hundreds of bodies unidentified 
BATON HOUGE, I.a. -Hundreds of corpsos from Hurricane Katrina await idontilieation at a makeshil't morgue. with only 32 bodies rnloased to families for bur­ial so far -a slow pace ofl'icials consider unavoidable. 
"Those are horrible times. and it's oxtrnmoly frustrating. I wish I could spend up tlw procnss. but speeding up the process eould contaminate thn process. I'm sorry about that," said Dr. Louis Cataldie, who hnads tho body reeovery process in Louisiana. 
ldnntifying the bodies through personal itnms. DNA. l'ingerprints, dental.reeords. pac1•maknrs or implants has been made dif­lindt by tho poor condition of corpses lnl't for days or w1wks in contaminated water. sludg1~ and heat. lw said. 
Heat closes Houston relief center 
IIOUSTON -Saying thny were 1:aught oll'­guard by tlw number of people in need. FEMA ollkials dosml a relief center early on Wndrwsday aftnr some of the hundreds of hurrkann vktims in line began fainting in tripln-digil hnal. 
Tlin midday dosing of the llouston disastnr rnlinl' cnntnr eame as oiTieials in areas hit hardnsl by llurricann Hila criticiznd FEMA's response to tlw storm, with ono ealling for a 1:omrnission to nxaminn the emergency rnsponsn. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Kernan named Red Cross director 
SOUTII BI·:NI>. Ind. -Formnr Indiana Cov. Jon Knrnan was introduend Wndnnsday as tlw intnrim director of thn St. .losnph County chapter of thn l{ml Cross. 
Tlw prnvious nxncutivn director was fired a coupln of wonks ago. Kernan said he is donating his limn as tnmporary dirnetor. 
Knrnan said his relationship with the Hod Cross datos to the Vietnam War. lin and other prisonnrs of war rncoivnd a Hnd Cross packagn eontaining deodorant and tooth­pastn. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVJCEs page 5 

DeLay indicted in fundraising-probe 
House Majority Leader temporarily steps down, denies guilt, calls ruling 'baseless' 
Associated Press  
WASIIINGTON  - llouse  
Majority  Loader  Tom  
DeLay  was indicted by  a  
Texas  grand  jury  
Wednesday on a charge of  
conspiring to violate polit­ 
ical fundraising laws, forc­ 
ing him  to  temporarily  
step aside from  his GOP  
post. lie is the highest­ 
ranking  mem her  of  
Congress to faee criminal  
prosecution.  
A defiant DeLay said he  
had done nothing wrong  
and  denounced  the  
Demoeratie  prosecutor  
who pursued the ease as a  
"partisan  fanatic."  lie  
said. "This is  one  of the  
weakest. most baseless  
indictments in American  
history. It's a sham."  
Nonetheless.  DeLay's  
temporary departure and  
the prospect of a  criminal  
trial  for  one  of  the  
Hepublieans'  most visible  
leaders  reverberated  
throughout the GOP-run  
Congress,  which  was  
already strugg.ling with  
ethics questions surround­ 
ing its Senate leader.  
Hopublieans  quiekly  
moved  to  fill  the  void. AP  
Representative Tom Delay, R-Tex., talks to reporters on Capitol Hill Wednesday afterwhile voicing polite sup­ 
resigning as House Majority Leader following his indictment by a Texas grand jury. port for DeLay. Speaker  
Dennis  Hastort  named  mer executive director of  intended to evade a  state  I>nLay and othnrs eon­ 
Missouri Rep. Hoy Blunt to  a  Texas political action  law outlawing corporate  spired to "engage in  eon­ 
take over most of DeLay's  committee  formed  by  donations going to candi­ duet that would eonstituto  
leadership duties.  DeLay, and Jim Ellis, who  dates, the indietment said.  the of'f'ensn of' knowingly  
Honnie  Earle,  the  heads DeLay's national  The  indictment  also  making a  political contri­ 
Democratic prosecutor in  political committee.  mentioned  another  bution  in  violation"  of  
Austin who led the investi­ The indictment stems  Republican  figure,  Texas law, the indictment  
gation. denied politics was  from  a  plan DeLay helped  President  Bush's  cam­ eharged. llowovor, it did  
involved. "Our job is  to  set in motion in 2001  to  paign political director  not  specify  how  I>nLay  
prosecute abuses of power  help Hepublieans win con­ Terry Nelson, though it  was involved.  
and  to bring those abuses  trol of the Texas House in  did  not charge him with  DeLay. whose conduel.  
to the public," he said. lie  the 2002 elections for the  any wrongdoing.  on  soparato issues  was  
has noted previously that  ·  first  time  since  The grand jury alleged  criticized by tho !louse  
he has prosecuted many  Heconstruetion.  Nelson  ·received  tho  nthies eornmitteo last year.  
Democrats in tho past.  The grand jury accused  money  -along with a  list  was  unrolenting in  his  
DeLay. 58. was indicted  tho  men  of conspiring to  of Texas lawmakers who  criticism of Earle. lin sug­ 
on a single felony count of  route corporate donations  were  to get donations  - gested the distriet attor­ 
conspiring with two politi­ from DeLay's Toxas com­ from tho Texas committee  noy had promised  not to  
eal associates. The two  mittee to  the Republican  while  working  at  the  prosecute him and then  
previously  had  been  Party in Washington. then  Hepublican  National  ehanged  eourso  under  
eharged with the  same  returning the money baek  Cornmittoe. Nelson did  not  pressure from I>nmoerats  
conspiracy count. They  to Texas legislative candi­ return calls to  his oiTico  and  eritieism  from  a  
are John Colyandro, fi1r­ dates. It  was  a  scheme  seeking comment.  newspaper in Tnxas.  

GAZA STRIP 

Israel continues missles despite truce pledge 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY -Israeli aircraft unleashed a barrage of missiles early Wndnnsday and fired artillery into the Gaza Strip for the first time. pushing forward with an offensive despite a pledge by lslamie militants to halt their reeent rocknt attacks against Israel. 
llennwnd fighting that entered its fifth day Wednesday has com­pounded Israeli Prime Minister Ariol Sharon's political probloms. The violence had been expected to harm Sharon's chanees in a vote Monday in the ruling Likud Party. where hard-liners hopod to punish him for the Gaza withdrawal. 
Sharon's narrowly won that ehal­lenge, but an advisor said Tuesday 
he still may bolt the party if it refuses to support his political pro­gram. 
The Israeli airstrikes early Wednesday knoeked out power throughout nearly all of Gaza City. The army said it targeted three buildings used for "terror activity" by Palestinian militants and an access route in northern Gaza usod by militants to 11re rockets. 
Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz said the army would attack Palestinian militants relentlessly to force them to stop firing rockets at Israeli towns. 
In the West Bank, Israeli troops raided offices belonging to the llamas militant group in tho towns of Qalqiliya and Tulkarem early Wednesday, Palestinian security ol'f1eials said. 
The army had no immediate 

comment on those raids, but said it arrested 24 wanted mombnrs of' llamas and lslamie .Jihad overnight elsewhere in the West Bank. 
The army has arrnsted noarly 400 suspected militants in tlw West Bank in reeent days. 
Thn firth straight day of airstrikes came hours aft1H· Islamic Jihad militants on Tuesday deelarod a halt to their rncent rocket attacks. and armed Palnstinian groups pledgnd to honor a tat.tnrml enasn-l'in~. senk­ing to nnd tlw Isnwli oiTnnsivn. 
Tensions wore further inflamed when llamas militants rnlnased a video showing a bound and blind­folded Israeli businnssman whom they kidnapped and later killed. The kidnapping appnan~d to signal a nnw taetie in tlw militants' light against Israel. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 29, 2005 
Sisters 
continued from page 1 
Suffering from poor health, Byrnes returned to Saint Mary's in May 2001 to undergo an operation. It was while strug­gling to recover she met athlet­ic director Lynn Kachmarik and began building a relationship with the College's athletic department. 
"A few years ago we needed to find a way for the fall sport athletes to eat over fall break and the dining hall was closed," Kachmarik said. 
Sister Louisita Welsh, assis­tant to vice president for mis­sion and the volleyball team chaplain, suggested the student athletes dine with Sisters of the Holy Cross at the convent. 
"It was a win-win situation for everybody," Kachmarik said. "[The athletes] mixed and 
mingled  with some  of the  
Sisters."  
From  that  point  on,  

Karchmarik said, Byrnes "just stuck." 
"I started doing what I call nun runs," Kachmarik said. "I would take my golf cart over to the convent and I would pick up whatever nuns wanted to come to the basketball game or the volleyball game." 
Attending games regularly, Byrnes grew especially close to members of the soccer squad and became team chaplain. 
"[The Sisters] want to be out serving, but health issues bring them back here," Kachmarik said. "So it is kind of like a life­line for Sister Viola -it keeps her young." 
Byrnes also credits her involvement with the athletics teams for energizing her physi­cally, mentally and spiritually. 
"lit's] been a lifesaver,'' Sister Viola said. "I would have gone nuts if I didn't have anything to do." 
In good times and in bad 
Despite serious health prob­lems -including two knee replacements, two knee hip replacements and severe arthritis -Byrnes is always on the sidelines cheering on the Belles. 
In May, Byrnes had successful open-heart surgery only to be diagnosed with breast cancer four weeks later. She spent the summer undergoing 30 radia­tion treatments. All of her focus, she said, was in recover­ing in time to attend the first home game this season. 
"I will never forget bringing her over on the golf cart Ito the first game] and she had her hands above her head saying 'I'm here, I'm here."' Kachmarik said. ''I've never seen our team play so much as a team as that first win against Albion." 
Byrnes has also become leg­endary among athletes and coaches for braving terrible weather in order to watch teams compete. 
"Last year it was this really cold, windy day," said senior Maura Schoen, one of three soccer team captains. "It was so windy we thought she was going to blow over and she was still out there. We had some of for the athletes. when they compete away. She and affirmed her belief that the 

"I love it when the other also likes to add a word or two Sisters have an important role teams see that we have a nun about strategy. to play in the athletic depart­in full habit on the sidelines," "Last home game Sister Viola ment and at the College. Culbertson said. "It is just started the halftime speech and priceless." she said 'You guys are playing A spiritual mother 
Byrnes doesn't restrict herself so well, but the ball is only on Sister Viola's dedication to to just the sidelines, however. one side of the field,"' her faith and to her life's work She joins the team on the field Culbertson said. "We were all has been an inspiration to for their pre-like, 'We are being many of those involved with 
coached by a nun.' Saint Mary's athletics. 

game pump-up "/love it when the 
sessions. It was the best half­As part of her work as soccer "She's usually other teams see time speech ever. I team chaplain, Sister Viola gave in the huddle," that we have a wish I had it on the name of one Saint Mary's Culbertson said. videotape or some­player to Sisters in the convent
nun in full habit 

"Sometimes peo­thing.'' to pray for the team's success. 
on the sidelines.,, 

ple will forget she After a senior At Christmastime members of is there. Before awards banquet the soccer team went door to the games some­one year, door in the convent to sing car­
Shannon Culbertson 

times people will Kachmarik ols and thank the Sisters for 
soccer team

get loud and kind recalled, the par­their support.
co-captain

of curse of what­ents of an athlete "Personally it has deepened ever but she approached her my faith knowing that someone doesn't get mad, she under­and thanked her not for honor­believes so strongly," stands." ing their daughter with one of Culbertson said. "Praying is not 
Byrnes taught the team a the major awards of the something she takes lightly, it is rhyming prayer, so they could evening but for reintroducing really serious." easily remember it, which they the Sisters to the students. Kachmarik said when she recite with her before every Kachmarik said that gesture arrived at Saint Mary's six home game and without her was "a huge statement" for her years ago she was not a Catholic and had little interest in becoming one. 
But little by little, Byrnes and fellow athletic enthusiast Sister Jean Little began to ask Kachmarik about her faith and whether she was interested in the joining the Church. 
"I was in such awe of their lives and their commitment to Cod and their work," Kachmarik said. "I started looking into it and then they became my sponsors." 
Her relationship with the Sisters of the Holy Cross has had a tremendous impact on her faith life, Kachmarik said. 
"I think Sister Viola and Sister Jean are 100 percent of the reason I became Catholic," Kachmarik said. "I am a com­pletely different person because of my relationship with Sister Viola and Sister Jean and all the Sisters of the Holy Cross." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 



our players stand behind her to make sure she didn't fall over. Nothing will stop her." 
A strong presence 
Senior and fellow soccer team captain Shannon Culbertson had never known a Sister before joining the Saint Mary's team freshman year and meet­ing Byrnes. She said she was immediately struck by her enthusiasm for the College and 



WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK 'frr 
54570N.IRONWOODDR. SOUTH BEND/MISHAWAKA 5343N.MAINST. 
57 4.277.8500 574.968.4600 
''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JO~N'S!'' © 
THE 0HSERVER 





USINESS
Thmsday, September 29, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,473.09 + 16.88

}ones .__ 
u,: Same: Down: Composite Volume 1,681 I 4 7 IAQ4 2, 144,873,060 
"'if 

AMEX I, 725.47 +12.84 NASDAQ 21I 15.40 -1.02 NVSE 7,575.10 +26.45 S&PSOO I ,216.89 + 1.23 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 13,508.09 +72.18 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,494.80 +47.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UN I PHASE CP ODSU) -2.29 -0.05 2.13 NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) +0.03 +0.01 38.68 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.30 +0.33 25.67 INTEL. CP (INTC) +0.50 +0, 12 23.95 SIRIUS SATElliTE R (SIRI) -I .84 -0.12 6.39 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.38 -0.63 45.0 I I0-YEAR NOTE -0.91 -0.39 42.62 5-YEAR NOTE -0.39 -0.16 41.11 3-MONTH BILL -0.53 -0.18 33.87 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.28 66.35 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +6.90 473. I 0 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.55 89.85 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 12.9650 EURO 0.8291 POUND 0.5654 
CANADIAN$ I. I 739 
IN BRIEF 
Federal judge rules against AARP 
I'JIII.AI>I~I.PIIIA-Heversing her earlier decision, a federal judge ruled Tuesday that eompanies may ofT11r younger retirnes bettor lwalth earn lwnnfits than they give older rntirens who qualif'y for Medicare. 
Tlw AAHP sued over the rule change pro­posed by th11 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on grounds that unequal health padages amount to age discrimination. 
U.S. District .Judge Anita Brody initially agrnml, granting an injunction in March that barred the federal agency from adopting the rule. llownver, a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling in an unr11latnd case compelled her to changn course, she said in a ruling Tuesday. 
Brody prohibited the agency from acting, though, until the AAHP has a chance to appeal. 
A lawyer for the AAHP, which sued on behalf or sPveral rnmnbnrs who saw their health ben­efits deeline when they turned 65, said an appeal is likely. 
El·:oc Chairwoman Cari Dominguez said Wedrwsday the rule change is in the public's interest, arguing that employers might other­wise eliminate retiree health benefits alto­getlwr. 
The AAHP questions that assumption. 

Recording industry urges ConSP"ess 
WASIIlNCTON -The recording industry and copyright experts urged Congress on Wednesday not to intervene with legislation to nrrh online piracy of music or movies after a rPeont ruling from the Supreme Court. 
Tho unanimous decision from the high 1:ourt in .June deared the way for the film and musk industry to file piracy lawsuits against toch no logy companies caught encouraging c:ustomors to stoal copyrighted material. 
At Wndnnsday's hearing, Senate Judiciary Committno Chairman Arlen Speeter said so11111 languago in tho ruling east doubt on what tlw standards are for illegal use, and he ashd wfwllwr legislation might be neces­sary. 
"Thero are so many factors driving employ­nrs away from retirne health benefits ... esca­lating lwalth costs, dmnographies; all sorts of things infhwnce nmployers' decisions," AAHP Foundation attorney Laurie McCann said. 


Overdue credit card bills at record high 
American Bankers Association reports surging debt could rise in months ahead 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Charge it! That familiar refrain is producing an unwanted response for more Amnricans: Your bill is overdue! 
Surging energy priees, low personal savings and the higher cost of borrow­ing have combined to pro­duro a record level of over­dull credit card bills. 
Thn American Bankers Assoeiation reported Wednesday that the pnr­cnntage of credit card accounts 30 or morn days past due climbed to an all­limn high of 4.81 percent in tho April-to-June period. It could grow in the months ahPad, experts said. 
The previous high of 4.76 pnreent came during the first three months of the ynar, in keeping with a gen­erally steady rise over the past seventl years. 
"The last two quarters have not been pretty," said Jim Chessen, the associa­tion's chief economist. 
Chesson and other ana­lysts mostly blamed high prices for gasoline and other energy products, but said that low savings and higher borrowing costs also played a role. 

"The rise in gas prices is really stretching budgets to The negative percentage commercial banks' prime Bankrate.com, an online the breaking point for some means that people did not lending rate to rise to 6. 7 5 financial service. "Six years people," Chessen said. "Gas have enough left over after percent, the highest in four ago, all fees -ineluding prices are taking huge paying their taxes to cover years. These rates are used late fees -contributed only chunks out of wallets, leav­all of their spending in July. for many short-term con­a minor portion to overall ing some individuals with As a result, they dipped into sumer loans, including revenue. Today it accounts little left to meet their savings to cover the short­credit cards and popular for more than 30 pnreent." financial obligations." fall. home equity lines of credit. About half of all credit 
Pump prices were high When people have less Late payments may be problems stnm from poor before hurricanes Katrina money available money to bad news for consumers, money managmnnnt. Credit and Hita hit the Gulf Coast. pay for energy costs or but credit card companies problems due to the loss of After Katrina, prices emergencies such as a big do not necessarily mind a job, siekness or divorce jumped past $3 a gallon. car repair, many resort to them because late fees are play less of a role, said pnr­Prices have moderated credit. That option is get­a source of revenue. sonal fimmen expert Susan since but remain high. ting more expensive, too. "Credit card companies Tiffany, dirnetor of con­
The personal savings rate The Federal Reserve has are increasingly addicted to sumer publishing at the dipped to a record low of been tightening credit since their fees," said Daniel Hay, Credit Union National negative 0.6 percent in July. June 2004. That has caused editor-in-chief at Association. 


Small businesses seek aid of backup services 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Business has picked up at data recovery services, insurance brokers and loss preven­tion consultancies across the nation over the past few weeks, as images of flooded and destroyed Gulf Coast companies made many small busi­ness owners uneasy about their own disaster preparedness. 
At LiveVault, a data backup and recovery company in Marlborough, Mass., orders doubled around the time that Hurricane Katrina hit, in late August, said CEO Bob Cramer. 
"A lot of people found us on the Web and called us frantically. They rapidly put orders through and begged us to get them up and run­ning," Cramer said. 
Many small business owners began thinking about contracting with a remote data backup service to protect their computer data after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, Cramer said. But many never signed up with a provider until they were unnerved by Katrina's devas­tation. 

But Cramer also said business has leveled off somewhat since the early blip, a sign that many company owners, perhaps distracted by day­to-day demands, are again putting off disaster prep. 
"They forget about disasters the week after they happen," he said. 
VeriCenter Inc., a Houston-based information technology firm with seven data backup centers around the country, also saw an uptick in business, said co-founder Dave Colsante. He's found that many cus­tomers have been motivated to start tapping into money that was set aside for disaster preparation but that went unused until now. 
Colsante said many of those com­panies were what he called toe-dip­pers -"they were interested in looking but hadn't actually pur­chased." 
"Katrina caused a lot of people to actually engage and force their IT staff to make the leap into tho dis­aster recovery world," he said. 
Insurance brokers have also been getting more phorH1 calls and e­mails. 
George Yates, president of Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of New York, in East Hampton, said his firm has bnen getting calls from businesses won­dering whether their insurance includes f'lood coverage. For many owners, the answer is no -11ood insurance has to be purchased sep­arately from a standard busirwss policy-and so Yatns' eompany has been selling morn coverage for 11oods. 
Yates said his company has been working on its own disaster plan­ning. Located right next to tlw Atlantic Ocean, East Hampton is vulnerable to hurricanes. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 29, 2005 




Video 
continued from page 1 
dents in professor Alan Dowty's class on the Arab­Israel conflict. 
Their counterparts were from Al-quds University in Jerusalem, students who spoke excellent English and ­dressed in jeans, T-shirts and sweaters -looked similar to themselves, notwithstanding several headscarves. 
A general curiosity on each side begged the question: "What do you think of us?" 
"[The State Department] is trying to find some way to get human contact into the con­text," Dowty said. "They can't just go into one of these uni­versities in the Arab world; it's just too controversial. The 
U.S. position is not strong enough. 
"They want this to be very informal, student to student, just to break down stereo­types and create some good will." 
The conference was organ­ized by Mark Rincon, a 
both sides. 
The Palestinian students insisted that they not be seen as terrorists -a label one student called offensive -but instead as victims of war. 
"I watch CNN all the time, and the media doesn't cover everything," one female Palestinian student said. "Daily, Palestinians are dying. The other day 19 [Palestinians] were killed, just like that. You'd be lucky to see it on bottom of the screen." 
A Notre Dame student asked if the students felt optimistic that the situation would improve. 
"Oh, that's far, far away from us," one Palestinian stu­dent said. 
Another added, "We are imprisoned, but we are hang­ing in here -and we do smile a lot." 
The Palestinian students were interested to know that three of the Notre Dame stu­dents had been to the Middle East and a few study Arabic. 
"How do you feel about us when you see us and hear us now?" one female Palestinian student asked. "Because we have 
recent Notre "! hope they know envy about you." Dame graduate The Notre Dame
we don't take 
who now works students respond-at the U.S. con­anything for ed that they sulate in granted­admired and Jerusalem. respected such
especially now.,, 
Notre Dame determination to students education, and described a Meghan O'Connell were grateful to be campus life of Notre Dame junior able to put faces 
studying, foot­ball season, clubs, interhall sports, the­ater, service, bars and trips to Chicago. 
The Palestinian students presented a much different reality, one of constant identi­fication checks "even when you go to the bathroom," a wall built to divide a people "both inside and outside" and a political situation that left uncertain tomorrows. 
One Palestinian student said she should be able to get to class in 10 minutes, but with checkpoints it takes an hour. Others said that some days they are not able to get to class at all. 
"We don't have much to do after college [classes]," one female Palestinian said. "We go home and do homework, we sleep. There's actually no place to hang out, we just sleep. 
"We're good sleepers," she added, prompting laughter on on a people often 
misunderstood. 
"What struck me was that everything we talked about was linked to the political cli­mate," junior Josh Hugo said after the conference. "It's a stark contrast to our own edu­cation. We could do whatever we want, and they're happy if they can get to school on time for a test. We're happy if a test gets cancelled." 
Stud-ents from both sides said they believe the dialogue was an important yet small step in the direction of improved relations. 
"I wonder how much that really helped," said junior Meghan O'Connell. "We can go on and on about the things that we do ... I hope that does not reinforce the negative ideas. I hope they know we don't take anything for grant­ed -especially now." 
Contact janice Flynn at jflynn 1 @nd.edu 

Dean 
continued from page 1 

whether he believed the ·college should have money invested in apartheid-ridden 
South Africa. 

Looking for a candidate 
who could balance with her 
background in chemistry, 
then-dean Dorothy Feigl said 
it was White's strong creden­
tials in English that earned 
him a job. 

"Be has a very wide range 
of interests, and that was 
what we were looking for in 
that position," Feigl said. 

When White arrived on 
campus, his position was 
largely undefined. There had 
only been one dean of faculty 
at the College, six years ear­
lier. White worked to estab­
lish himself, and Feigl quick­
ly got a taste of what collab­
orating with White for the 
next decade would be like. 
"The first year we worked 
together we had a major 
proposal, and we finished 
the proposal at 11 p.m.," Feigl said. "We raced to the post office to get it postmarked before mid­night." 
The post office was already closed when the pair arrived. Nevertheless, White knocked on the door and successfully entreated a 

innovator and a brilliant and educating in the field of grant writer. intercultural relations on a 
Under White's direction, local, nation and global level. Saint Mary's hosted the first The Lilly Endowment "Play of the Mind granted the College an initial Conference" in 1992, an $12 million dollars -fol­event which brought faculty lowed a few years later by and students from dozens of additional money -and in institutions across the coun­2000, CWIL was born. White try for a week-went on to hire end creative 15 CWIL fellows, and intellectual "He brought a lot some who later engagement. It became full-time
ofmoney to the 
ran for 12 faculty mem­
College."
straight years bers. and was placed In 2002 Ristau on hiatus for Dorothy Feigl announced she the Presidential was stepping
former Saint Mary's 
search in 2003. down as dean of
dean
Hoping to fos­ter faculty and curriculum development White founded The Center for Academic Innovation (CFAI) in 1993. The Center became the base for some of the College's most respected and applied to programs including the Student Independent Study and Research (SISTAR) grant, a student-faculty research opportunity, and 
"He was very good at bringing creative ideas in how we could improve the intellectual environment ofthe College." 
Dorothy Feigl former Saint Mary's dean 
t h e Collaborative Study and He search Program (COSTAR), a fac­ulty team research oppor­tunity. 
"He was very good at bringing creative ideas in how we could improve the intellectual environment of the College," Feigl said. "He 
faculty and 
White was 
named interim dean. Shortly thereafter, then-College president Marilou Eldred announced her retirement. 
Not wanting to have both a search for a new president and new dean being conduct­ed at the same time, the College dropped the interim from White's title. 
With Carol Mooney well established in the president's office, White discussed his desire to return to teaching with her, and Mooney made the announcement to the fac­ulty Aug. 17. 
A national search for White's replacement will soon be underway. A search committee chaired by Mooney and comprised of four faculty members select­ed by the faculty assembly, two faculty members appointed by Mooney and one student representative is being assembled in the next week. 
Internal candidates are also being considered, College spokeswoman Melanie McDonald said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

postal worker to stamp their envelope. 
Working with Feigl until 1998 and then with her suc­cessor Karen Ristau from 1998 to 2002, White proved himself to be an academic 
brought a lot of money to the College." 
Perhaps White's biggest coup came when he wrote a proposal to establish CWIL, an academic think tank dedi­cated to women researching 



Thursday, September 29, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Marrow transplants improving 
Development of safer procedures will helpfight cancer, doctors say 
Associated Press 
STi\NFOIW UNIVEHSITY ­Doctors seem to have found a way to make bone marrow transplants safer and more nfTn!'tive against blood canc~ers likn lnukmnia, an achilwemnnt that offers new hope for people over 50 in particular. 
The advance by Stanford University doctors could make such transplants, which have dramatically improved cancer survival among children and young adults, more widely available to older people who typi!' ally don't fare as well. 
It also brings the field eloser to its Holy Grail -training a reeipinnt's body to accept tis­sun from another person and live a "blended" life without heavy reliance on anti-rejec­tion drugs. 
Scientists already had achinved this in mice; Stanford researchers now have extend­ed it to people. Their study is published in Thursday's New 1\ngland .Journal of Medicine and was funded by the National Institutes of llealth. 
Specialists said tlw study was small and preliminary, but vnry promising. 
"II' it works. we would be able to do transplants in a lot morn people," said Dr. Mary llorowitz. seientific director of the C1111ter for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Hes1~ard1, based at the Mndical Collnge of Wisconsin, which had no role in the research. 
Ideally, a leukemia or lym­phoma patient would be given radiation or high doses of chemotherapy to destroy the cancerous bone marrow before receiving healthy marrow or blood stem cells from a donor. I lowever, many patients, espe­cially those over 50, die of infections they are unable to fight ofT before the new mar­row takes hold and grows. 
To avoid this problem, doc­tors usually destroy only part of the patient's original mar­row. That brings other dilem­mas: some cancerous blood cells remain, and the new marrow frequently attacks the old -an often-fatal problem called graft-versus-host dis­ease. 
Stanford researchers devel­oped a way to condition the recipient to accept the new marrow and to inactivate the parts of the patient's immune system that would attack it. They used a combination of low-dose radiation over two weeks and short courses of immune-suppressing drugs. 
Only 2 of the 37 patients given the experimental treat­ment developed severe graft­versus-host disease. Ordinarily, more than half of them would have. 
An average of one year later, 27 of the 37 were still alive, and cancer was in complete remission in 24 or them -bet­ter results than usual. The average age of the patients was 52. 
"It can achieve the cure of the tumor without the high likelihood that you will come down with the dreaded side effect," said the lead researcher, Dr. Samuel Strober. 
The results need to be repeated in larger studies, but are "impressive" and "open a new era in the field," Dr. Gerard Socie, a transplant expert from several universi­ties in Paris, wrote in an accompanying editorial. 
Patients also need to be fol­lowed for longer than a year to see if they remain cancer-free, Horowitz said. 
Bone marrow and blood cell transplants are one reason the death rate from childhood can­cers has dropped roughly 50 percent since the 1970s. Leukemia is the most common cancer that children face, but it is diagnosed 10 times more often iri older adults -the very group for whom trans­plants have been most danger­ous. 
With the new treatment, "the side effects are being markedly reduced, which is good news for elderly patients with leukemia and lymphoma," Strober said. 
The approach also might help people receiving organ transplants if they are "condi­tioned" with marrow or blood cells from the donor before receiving a kidney or other organ, Strobnr said. 



Areas of New Orleans 
reopen for residentS 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La. -More areas of New Orleans that escaped flooding from Hurricanes Katrina and Hita will be formally reopened start­ing Thursday, Mayor Hay Nagin said. 
The areas include the French Quarter, the Central Business district, and Uptown with its historic Garden District. Business owners will be allowed in on Thursday, and residents on Friday. 
"The re-entry started Monday and is going very well ­exceedingly well," Nagin told legislators at a hearing Wednesday at the state capitol. "Everything you hoped to hap­pen is happening. Algiers is alive and well and breathing." 
On Monday, Nagin opened the Algiers neighborhood, which has electricity and dean water. 
Nagin said checkpoints where officers stop people will be pulled back Thursday so that only areas that were f'looded will be ofT limits. llomes in those areas were heavily flooded and most are likely beyond repair. 
If all goes well, as of Oct. 5 only the Lower Ninth Ward, whieh was hit especially hard by the flooding, will be cor­doned off, Nagin said. 
Electricity has been restored to some dry parts of the eity, but the water is not yet drinkable. The mayor disagreed with the head of the state's Health Department about the condition of the city's water, insisting resi­dents could now wash in it, though they shouldn't drink it. 
"The two things that are absolutely necessary to ensure public health -dean drinking water and proper sewagn sys­tnms-simply are not available in the east bank area of New Orleans at this time," said Dr. Fred Cerise, secretary for the state Department of llealth and Hospitals. 
"People who re-enter the city may be exposed to diseases such as E. coli, salmonnlla or diarrhea illness if they do not allow time for the necessary inspections to ensure public health and safety," Cerise said. 
Many residents of the city have returned ahead of Nagin's offieial timeline, and the mayor appeared eager Wednesday to get more of' them back. 
Nagin complained that statn opposition was feeding a mis­perception about Nnw Orleans, saying: "We're f'ighting this national impression that we're tainted, we're not rnady." 
Yet a handout from the mayor's of'f'ico to returning motorists struck a more cau­tious tone than Nagin himself'. 
"You are entering thn city of' New Orleans at your own risk," it reads, bnfore going on to detail potential health hazards from water, soil and air. and advising rnsidnnts to bring in food. 

The Department qfIrish Language and Literature presents J¥HY IRISH?-a one-day international colloquium exploring the contributions of Irish language and litet·ature to scholarship and the academy. 
Friday, September 30 

Hesburgh Auditorium 
9:00-10:45 Session I Dean Mark Roche-Official Welcome 

Minister Eamon 0 Cufv, T.D. (Governn"Ient of Ireland) -An Ghaeilge -lar:una ..':)taire no Teanga Oibre? /The Irish Language -A Ifistoric Relic or a I,Vorking Language? 
Professor .James !VIcCloskey (UC Santa Cruz) -Irish as a World language 
I I :I 5-1: 15 Session II 

Professor Philip o•Leary (Boston College)-Teanga gan Teorainn-The 1Yove/s qfA/an Tilley Professor Clar·e Carroll (CUNY) -Irish Literdture, Irish Ilisto1y and Co1nparative 5·rudies 2:30-4:30 pm Session Ill 
Pa·ofessoa-Toan~\s 6 Cathnsaigh (Harvard)-Saga and l\.1yth in Irish Language Literature Professor Calvert '\Vatkins (UCLA)-What l'v1akes the Study of Irish Worthwhile? ProCessor Breandan 6 Buachalln (Notre Darne)-Closing Ren1arks 
Reception sponsored by Consulate General of Ireland, Rt. Hon. Mr. Charles Sheehan 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 29, 2005 



Roberts on the verge of becoming the next chief justice 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -A divided Democratic caucus on Wednesday assured Supreme Court nominee John G. Roberts Jr. of a comfortable. bipartisan 
Senate con­firmation as the nation's 17th chief justice, the youngest in 200 years. 
Many say they would have chosen 

someone else Roberts 
for the posi­
tion, yet 21 Senate Democrats 
agreed he has "a brilliant legal 
mind" and will be among the 
76 senators -more than 
three-fourths of the 100-mem­
ber Senate -who say they 
plan to vote to confirm the 50­
year-old Hoberts as the succes­
sor to the late William H. 
Rehnquist. 
Democrats are uniting, how­ever, in sending the White House a warning not to nomi­nate a conservative ideologue to replace retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Conno~ President Bush is expected to nominate O'Connor's replace­ment soon after Hoberts is sworn in as chief justice. 
"While this nomination did not warrant an attempt to block the nominee on the floor of the Senate, the next one might," said Sen. Charles Schumer of New York, chair­man of the Democratic 
• Senatorial Campaign Committee, and a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. He was out front on filibusters of Bush's lower court judicial nominees and is one of the 21 Democrats who have announced their opposition to Hoberts. 
Sen. Mark Pryor of Arkansas is one of the 21 Democrats who have announced support for Roberts, yet he too cautioned the White House on the upcom­ing pick, saying, "If Bush nomi­nates another conservative activist judge, there will be problems in the Senate." 
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter, R-Pa., condemned talk of blocking Bush's next Supreme Court pick, but also urged the White House to nominate "in the mold of Judge Roberts," who has gone through the Senate rela­tively unscathed from the day Bush tapped him as the nation's 109th Supreme Court justice. 
"If the president can find someone in Judge Hoberts' mold, I think by putting up that nominee, he disarmed his opponents," Specter said. 
Roberts is expected to have a long tenure as chief justice. 
Not since John Marshall, con­firmed in 1801 at 45, has there been a younger chief. Oliver Ellsworth was 50 -about six weeks from turning 51; And John Jay, the first chief justice, was 44. lie served from 1789­1795. 
Roberts, a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, grew up in Long Beach, Ind., working summers in the same steel mill where his father was an elec­trical engineer and serving as high school class president and captain of the football team. 
After graduating with honors from Harvard -both in under­graduate and law school -he clerked for William H. Hehnquist when he was an associate justice on the Supreme Court and later worked as a prominent lawyer and judge in Washington. He argued 39 cases in front of the Supreme Court, and was con­sidered one of the nation's best appellate lawyers before being tapped for the federal appeals court. 


Hoberts has drawn fire for his conservative views on women's issues and civil rights but also disarmed many Democratic senators with a smooth performance before the Judiciary Committee. He spoke without notes for four days and jousted with senators who unsuccessfully tried to pin down how he'd rule once he's confirmed as chiefjustice. 
"No one disputes that Judge Hoberts has a brilliant legal mind," said Sen. Hon Wyden, D-Ore., adding that he believes Hoberts is not as conservative as Justices Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia. 
If Democrats voted against Hoberts as a bloc, it would give Republicans a reason to block the next Democratic president's nominee if they are still in charge of the Senate, Wyden said. "A sword forged in ideolo­gy in 2005 can be used against a progressive nominee in 2009 with an equal disregard for the Constitution and the individ­ual," he said. 
Senators are expecting a more partisan fight over Bush's replacement for O'Connor. She often has been a swing vote, a majority maker whose replace­ment could signal a shift on the court on many contentious issues including abortion and affirmative action. 
Roberts makes it harder for the White House, given how well his nomination was accepted by the Senate, said Sen. John Cornyn, H-Texas and a member of the Judiciary Committee. "If the president picks a nominee close to the quality of John Hoberts, then I don't think there will be a fight," he said. 
Democrats say if Bush sends up any of the nominees they fil­ibustered earlier this year ­like federal appellate judges Priscilla Owen, Janice Rogers Brown, William Pryor or Hispanic lawyer Miguel Estrada -they will fight to the bitter end. 
Debated ground zero ?1-useum idea dropped 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Bowing to pres­sure from furious Sept. 11 fami­lies, Gov. George Pataki on Wednesday removed a proposed freedom museum from the space reserved for it at ground zero, saying the project had aroused "too much opposition, too much controversy." 
He left open the possibility that a new spot at the former World Trade Center site could be found for the museum. 
The decision followed months of acrimony over the International Freedom Center, with Sept. 11 families and politi­cians saying that the museum would overshadow and take space from a separate memorial devoted to the 2,749 World Trade Center dead and would dishonor them by fostering debate about the attacks and other world events. 
"We must move forward with our first priority, the creation of an inspiring memorial to pay tribute to our lost loved ones and tell their stories to the world," Pataki said in a state­ment. 
Pataki said that the Freedom Center cannot be part of a cul­tural building located near the proposed trade center memori­al. But he left open the possibili­ty that the center could find a home elsewhere on the 16-acre site. 
Pataki said he would direct the Lower Manhattan Development Corp. -the agency he created to rebuild the site -to explore other locations for the center. 
A campaign by some Sept. 11 families to oust the museum from space reserved for it at ground zero had grown in recent months to include four police and fire unions, an online petition with more than 40,000 signatures, and several politi­cians including former Mayor Hudolph Giuliani. 
"Goodbye and good riddance," said Hep. Vito Fossella, one of three congressmen who had threatened hearings on federal funding if the museum stayed where it was. "The IFC will not stand on the hallowed grounds of the World Trade Center site." 
In addition to the terrorist attacks, the Freedom Center planned exhibits on such topics as Abraham Lincoln, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., the fall of the Berlin Wall, the civil rights movement, the Declaration of Independence and the South African constitution. 
The museum would also include a section on the world's response to Sept. 11 and a film that links the victims' back­grounds to periods in history. 
Some families have opposed the museum as much for its location as its content; they say it would sit in a prominent part of ground zero that would obscure the memorial museum. 




STUDYABROAD 
IN 


JAPAN 


Thursday, September 29, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page II 
Design for $100 laptop unveiled 
Inexpensive computers could benefit children in developing countries 
Associated Press 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. -TIHl $100 laptop computers that Massachusetts Institute of Technology researchers want to get into the hands of the world's children would be durable, flexible and self­rnliant. 
Tho machines' AC adapter would double as a carrying strap. and a hand crank would pownr them when there's no nleetridty. They'd bfl foldable likfl traditional notnbook PCs, and carried like slim lunch­boxes. 
For outdoor reading, their display would bn able t<~ shirt from full color to glare-resist­ant black and white. 
And surrounding it all, the laptops would have a rubber easing that elosos tightly, hneause "they have to be absolutely indestructible," said Nieholas Negropontn, the MIT Mndia Lab loader who ofTernd an updatr. on the project Wmlrwsday. 
Nngropontn hatched the $100 laptop idea after ser.ing ehildrnn in a Cambodian vil­lago hnnnfit from having note­hook cornputnrs at school that thny wuld also totn home to usn' on thnir own. 
Thosn computers had been donatnd by a foundation run by Nngropontn and his wife. lie dneidnd that for kids every­wlwrn to bnnnlit from thf1 edu­cational and communications powp,rs of the Internet, some­one would have to make lap­tops inexpensive enough for officials in developing coun­tries to purehasn en masse. At least that's Negroponte's plan. 
Within a year, Negroponte expects his nonprofit One Laptop Per Child to get 5 mil­lion to 15 million of the machines in production, when children in Brazil, China, Egypt, Thailand, South Africa are due to begin getting them. 
In the second year -when Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney hopes to start buying them for all 500,000 middle and high-school students in this state -Negroponte envi­sions 100 million to 150 mil­lion being made. (He boasts that these humble $100 note­books would surpass the world's existing annual pro­duction of laptops, which is about 50 million.) 
While a prototype isn't expoctnd to be shown ofT until November, Negroponte unveiled blueprints at Technology Heview magazine's Emnrging Technologies eonfer­enee at MIT. 
Among the key spees: A 500­rnegahertz processor (that was fast in the 1990s but slow by today's standards) by Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and flash mnmory instead of a hard drive with moving parts. To save on software costs, the laptops would run the freely available Linux operating sys­tem instead of Windows. 
The computers would be able to connect to Wi-Fi wire­less networks and be part of "mesh" networks in which eaeh laptop would relay data to and from other devices, reducing the need for expen­sive base stations. Plans call for the machines to have four USB ports for multimedia and data storage. 
Perhaps the defining differ­ence is the hand crank, though first-generation users would get no more than 10 minutes of juice from one minute of winding. 
This certainly wouldn't be the first effort to bridge the world's so-ealled digital divide with inexpensive versions of 
fancy  maehinery.  Other  
attempts have had a mixed  
record.  
With  those  in  mind,  

Negroponte says his team is addressing ways this project eould be undermined. 
For example, to keep the $100 laptops from bning wide­ly stolen or sold ofT in poor countries, he nxpects to make them so pervasive in schools and so distinctive in aesign that it would be "socially a stigma to be carrying one if you are not a student or a teacher." lie compared it to filching a mail truck or taking something from a church: Everyone would know where it came from. 

Used book sales now­a $2 billion industry 
"I think consumers are
Associated Press increasingly starting to notice that they can get used books in NEW YORK -For as long as good condition, in a tinwly there has been a publishing manner," says JolT llayes, a industry, there have been used director at lnfoTrends, a: mar­books, that supposedly quaint ket research firm that served world of polymaths and anti­as the principal analyst for the quarians BISG study. poking about More than 111 musty. clut­million used
"I think consumers are
tered stores books were pur­
increasingly starting 
for titles few chased last year, readers to notice that they can representing would know. about one out of
get used books in good
But a land­every 12 overall
condition, in a timely
mark study book purchases. released manner. , By the end of tho Wednesday decade, the pr.r­confirms centage is expnct­
Jeff Hayes 

what pub­ed to rise to one
director

lishers, out of 11, a trou­authors and Info Trends bling trend whnn 
booksellers 
h a v e 
believed -and feared -sineo the rise of the Internet: Used books have bncomo a modern powerhouse, driven by high priees for new works and by the convenience of finding any title, new or old, without leav­ing your home. 
According to the Book Industry Study Group, used book sales topped $2.2· billion in 2004, an 11 percent increase over 2003. Much of that growth ean be credited to the Internet. While usnd sales at traditional stores rose a modest 4.6 percent, they jumped 33 percent online, to just over $600 million. 
sales for new 

works are essen­tially nat; authors and publish­ers receive no royalties from used buys. 
"Obviously, thesn are not sta­tistics to warm the heart of publishnrs," says Simon & Schuster spokesman Adam Hothborg. 
The BISG, a nonprofit organ­ization supportnd by publish­ers, booksnllers and othnrs in the industry, reports that price is the greatest appeal for choos~ng used hooks over now ones. While hardcovers of'tnn cost $25 and higher, used books purchased in 2004 aver­aged $R.12 -nxenpt for text books, which averaged $42.:H. 

THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY IN THE NEW MILLENNIUM 
"Through Dangers, Toils, and Snares, An Historical Perspective on Catholic Higher Education" 
Philip Gleason, University of Notre Dame 
After receiving his M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Notre Dame, Philip Gleason began teaching at Notre Dame in 1959 and, except for a term as visiting chairholder at the Catholic University of America, he taught at Notre Dame until his retirement in 1996. He has served as president of the American Catholic Historical Association, and also served as a consultant to the Johns Hopkins University Program in American Religious History. He is a distinguished author of many books including Contending with Modernity: Catholic Higher Education in the Twentieth-Century. 
7:40p.m. Thursday, September 29, 2005 McKenna Hall Auditorium 
"The Catholic University: Mediator of Grace and Truth" 
Helen Alvare, Columbus School of Law at The Catholic University of America 
Helen Alvare is an associate professor and presently teaching Property, Family Law, and Legislation Seminar. She formally served as Director of Planning and Information Secretariat for Pro-Life Activites for the National Conference of Catholic Bishops. She was a national representative on abortion, euthanasia, feminism, capital punishment, population and related issues for the American Catholic bishops in television, radio, print media, 
the U.S. Congress and public lectures. 
7:30 p.m. Friday, September 30, 2005 McKenna Hall Auditorium 

All sessions are open to the public. Conference events will be held at McKenna Hall. A full program and registration information may be found at our website: ethicscenter.nd.edu. There Is no registration fee for Notre Dame students and faculty. ·, If you would like to attend meals, please regiSter on-line at ethicscenter.nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, September 29, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Tin lntkpendmt, Daily NeW$Jitrper Ser11ing Notre Dame and !Wint Mary's 

Two World Youth Days 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gi!loon 
SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAJNT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Ltc and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is availahle to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~ons regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obstrvcr (USPS 599 24000) is publ~ed Monday thr-ough Friday ex:ct:pt during exam ;md vacation periods. Asubscription co The Observer ill: $100 for one acadtmk yean S55.for onesemes[er. 
The Obscrvei is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrmions to: 
Notre Dtme.lN 46556...0779 TiteObserver 
Periodic:al post• paid 2r No1re D...mc P.O.Ilox779 
and. addiUonat majJlng officc:ll, 024 South Dining Hall 
Norce Dame, IN 4.6556·0n9 
The Ohscrvcr is. a member ofthe Associated PtC$S. All rt.B.rod:uaion rights are to.ctv«<. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
To the media, World Youth Day was "a Catholic Woodstock." But to the new Pope it was a teaching moment. 
2005 had two World Youth Days. The frrst, in April, was spontaneous. The young predominated among the millions in Rome for the funeral of John Paul II. The event, including the homily by the future Pope, was seen, in person or on televi­sion, by more people than any other funeral ill history. Four days Charles Rice 

later, at the Mass 
Right or
inaugurating his pon­
Wrong?
tificate, Benedict XVI looked to the future: "[T]he Church is alive. And the Church is young. She ... shows ... the way towards the future." 
In August, Benedict went to the World Youth Day in Cologne to show young people "how beautiful it is to be Christian." The event exceeded expecta­tions, with more than a million at the closing Mass. The Pope made the most of it, confirming that relativism, among other issues, would be a major concern of his papacy. 
At the Mass before the conclave that elected him, then-Cardinal Ratzinger had said, "We are building a dictatorship of relativism that does not recognize any­thing as definitive and whose ultimate goal consists solely of one's own ego and desires." He described "relativism" as "letting oneself be 'tossed here and there, carried about by every wind of doctrine."' In Cologne, Benedict devel­oped the point. "[F]reedom," he said, "is not simply about enjoying life in total autonomy, but ... about living by the measure of truth and goodness, so that we ... can become true and good." He explained that objective, non-relative "measure" in the context of the Greek and Latin origins of the word, "adora­tion." Adoration of Christ in the Eucharist leads to "submission, th_e recognition of God as our true measure ... [That] submission liberates us deep within." 

Papal discussion of relativism is noth­ing new. John Paul II, in 1991, denied that "agnosticism and skeptical rela­tivism" are the foundation of democracy. Rather, without an "ultimate truth to guide ... political activity ... ideas ... can be manipulated" as a means to power. A relativist democracy "easily turns into open or thinly disguised totalitarianism." That makes sense. If there is no acknowledged moral truth, political life becomes a power struggle among inter­ests, with no real limits to what the law can do. Similarly, in 1999, then-Cardinal Ratzinger identified as one of the "crises of law" the determination of what is just by the shifting consensus of the majority. 
Relativism is a problem of special note in the academic world. More than a few professors are absolutely sure that they can't be sure of anything. But relativism itself is absurd. If you say that all things are relative, you must admit that your statement, too, is relative. The jurispru­dence of a relativist society will be legal positivism in which any law, whether Dred Scott, Auschwitz, or whatever, will be considered valid if it is enacted by the preseribed procedure. A law cannot be criticized as unjust because nobody can know what is unjust. As Hans Kelsen, the 20th century's leading legal positivist, put it, "justice is an irrational ideal." 
The answer to relativism, however, is not in the false absolutes of ideology. Instead, Benedict XVI urges a "true revo­lution" in contrast to the ideological rev­olutions of the twentieth century which "assumed total responsibility for ... the world in order to change it ... [A] human and partial point of view was ... taken as an absolute guiding principle. Absolutizing what is not absolute but rel­ative is ... totalitarianism. It ... takes away [man's] dignity and enslaves him. It is not ideologies that save the world, but only a return to ... our Creator, the guar­antor of our freedom [and] what is ... good and true." 
Carrying on the truth-affirming mis­sion of John Paul, Benedict gently but firmly laid it on the line to the young people in Cologne. Without God, he said at the closing Mass, there is frustration and "dissatisfaction with everyone and everything. People tend to exclaim: This eannot be what life is about!"' One result is "a kind of new explosion of religion." But Benedict cautioned against letting religion become "a consumer product. ... [R]eligion constructed on a 'do-it-your­self basis ... may be comfortable, but at times of crisis we are left to oursdves." The answer is in Scripture and the teaching Church. 
So what is Benedict all about? He real­ly believes in objective moral Truth. Imagine that. And he capitalizes it because that Truth is a person. Like John Paul, he tells it like it is, especially to the young. At his inaugural Mass, he said, "I say to you, dear young people: Do not be afraid of Christ! He takes noth­ing away, and he gives you everything. When we give ourselves to him, we receive a hundredfold in return. Yes, open wide the doors to Christ -and you will fmd true life." 
Surprising numbers of young people seem to be listening to this man. Even at Notre Dame. 
Professor Emeritus Charles E. Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. lie can be contacted at plawecki@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY

Nicole Zook Bobby Griffin 
Joe Piarulli Ryan Kiefer Janice Flynn Tim Kaiser How have you gotten in 


Submit aLetter I 
"Philosophy is a battle against the 
Viewpoint Scene 
trouble at Notre Dame? 

bewitchment ofour intelligence
Joey King Chris McGrady 
by means of language."
Graphics 

to tbe Editor at I 
Ludwig Wittgenstein 
Kelly MacDonald Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
philosopher
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

www.ndsmcobser~.com I 
p ····················ww1WW''' 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 29, 2005 page 13 
Tim Solie: He knew he was loved 
At thn nnd of April, a popular, fun­loving and intelligent Notre Dame grad­l!atl' of 2004 did not feel well for almost a WIWk, and, oncouragml by his frinnds, dwcknd himself into the nnwrgency 
room of tho  
llnivl'rsity of  Father Richard  
Chirago Hospital.  Warner  
TwPnty-two year old Tim Solie was  Faithpoint  
hired as a busirwss  

associate at tho prostigious McKinsey & Company in Chirago one ynar narlier, and was already sntting high watnr­marks for his pnrformancn. In a city wlwrn thnrn arn almost 7,000 young Notre Dame alumni undnr 29, Tim t.endnd to stand pnrhaps a bit abovo an incn~dibly talmttl'd group of young mfm and wonwn. 
As a result of his illness, Tim's friends snt. up a Web sitn where people could conrrmrrticatn with Tim as he sulTored through many dwmothnrapy protocols for a t:anem that rwvnr was fully diag­nosl'd, dnspitn tmatment by some of tho lwst nwdil:al minds and medical centers in our country. 
l.ast. Tunsday, thn Web site contained this (ndited) message writtl'n by his frinnd Austin: 
"It is with both sadness and yet great r11liel' that I am writing tonight. During the weeknnd, Tim contracted a bacteri­al inl'netion that quickly sprnad throughout his body. While doctors gave Tim antibiotics and the usual immune boosting injections, there was littln else that they could do considering multiple risks and his diminished immune system. Tim's health deterio­ratnd rapidly." 
"A few of his dose friends and his immediate family were with Tim in Statn College during his last two days. Doctors made Tim comfortable, and he told us that he was not in any pain. Monday night. Father Tim Scully, CSC, came to Statn College at a moment's notice, to administer the Sacrament of the Sick and to offer an intimate Mass around Tim's bed, during which he received the Body of Christ for tho last timn from his father. We visitnd with Tim the following day, tolling stories and sharing great memories. While he was not entirely conscious, we know that he could hear us." 
"At 5:00 on Tuesday, Tim died peace­fully. lie knew he was loved." 
Tim's funeral on Saturday at State College, Pennsylvania, was an extraor­dinary moment of faith and love, and one of those many intangible but real nlements that arc so integral to whom we are as members of the Notre Dame family. Twelvf1 or 15 of Tim's under­graduate friends from Fisher Hall and of his sister were present for the wake and funeral. as were dozlms of his fel­low alumni from 2004. 
Many hundreds of people were pres-

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Gay rights and all rights 
It is a shame when the former head rights movement similarly fails. No of Notre Damn's College Hepublicans, new rights were created for African­fan Honderos, sheds all Iogie and Americans, just the continuation of a reason and assumes the mantra of long process to extend the same "if-you-are-against-gay-marriage­rights enjoyed by others -the right you-arn-a-puritanieal-fearfu 1-fun cia­for a man to marry a woman, and a mentalist" in his "l.ibnrty for All?" woman a man. eolumn on Tunsday. Mr. Honderos then turns his pen to 
I lis attacks leave nothing sacred. l the topic of "activist judges" and partindarly enjoyed his line that "majority rule." lie once again states stated, "All religions are human an ostensibly rational elaim that "a attempts to interpret the divinn's democracy [should] not be a tyranny attempt to commtwicate, and mis­of the majority" and subverts this for takes arn always going to be made ... his own ends. By making this state­D11spnratnly dasping a few phrases ment, he leaves no principled way from the gospels and failing to for society to make any rules govern­acknowlndge that these were written ing behavior. Why the folks at NAM­in the moral tradition of thn Jews of BLA (North Amnriean Man Boy Love tlw first eentury C.E., the fundamen­Association) want nothing more than talist!> fail to separate the divine the legalization of sex with 6 year old from the human in the gospels." boys. (Caveat, I am not equating your Evidently, Mr. Honderos has a average homosexual with a support­straight conneetion to thn "divine" or of NAMBLA.) The issue is that the and can tell us all that any attempt justilieation he uses for allowing gay to intnrpret the Bible is a complete marriage and rnjecting the tradition­waste. (Call the Pope!) Why stop alist argument leaves no principled there? If anything, the Ten manner by which the majority Commandments are even more (inducting most homosexuals) could worthlnss. Thny were written long reject the claims of NAMBLA. ago, and in a tradition nven more at Arter all, Honderos has established odds with a modern pluralistic socie­that any attempts to interpret and ty. apply Biblical principles are a waste, 
111~ makes a seemingly reasonable due to human fallibility. daim, "evnry citiznn desnrves the Consequently, his arguments leave nxaet nqual rights as another under little room to codify any general the laws of our land." You should moral understanding which could noticl' his sleight of hand. condemn any minority conduct. llomosexuals do have the exact same We, the American majority, only rights as heterosexuals. A man can wish that in the public debate our marry a woman, and a woman can positions and belief's would be taken marry a man. Thn biggest canard with the seriousness and respect used by Mr. Honderos is that homo­they deserve. Such self-righteous sexuals do not have "exact equal indignant attacks do not bring about rights" as lwtnrosexuals. any real discussion. Only when both llomosnxuals have the right to sides reject thll demagoguery of marry. What thn gay rights move­Honderos, can we fully and respect­mnnt is attempting to do is to ereate fully address these issues. a new right. Hedefining marriage to allow same sexes is to change the Jacob Zipfel very definition of what marriage has alumnus h istorieally been. Notre Dame Law School Class of 2008 
llis overused analogy to the eivil Sept. 28 ent for the Mass of Hesurrection, and two score or more of Tim's friends were present at his home after the burial. There, thny continued thnir celP.bration of Tim's life and gatherod to watch the Notre Dame-Washington football game, "as Tim would have wanted." The observations of those people who had no association with Notre Dame were similar. They commentnd on how impressed they were with what they experiencnd that day. They saw young people celebrate Mass together in a prayerful and faith-tillnd way. They saw the extraordinary camaraderie of the Notre Dame undergraduates and alum­ni. They wore taken by·the easy and deep way young men and women relat­ed to each other, "almost as brothers and sisters," one person noted. 
"I never understood what was so spe­cial about Notre Damn until today," a physieian, like Tim's father, who was a Princeton alumnus, told me, "although l have many colleagues from Notre Dame whom I have known and admired." 
"As a Boston College graduate and a lifelong subway alumnus, l have to tell you that I have never experienced such friendship and faith," a Boston attorney offered. And many other similar com­ments were made by men and womPn who were truly in awe of what they had seen and experienced of the Notre Dame ethos embodied in those present. 
I hope we never take for granted, underestimate or trivialize what it 
means wlwn we proclaim boldly that 
"We are ND!" 
It is what I and hundrnds of otlwrs experienced last Saturday as wn cele­bratod Tim Solie's life. It is the lovn that was shared by Tim during his lifnl.irne and during his last wnnks and days before ho came face to facn with Cod. It was tho love of his bereaved family and his many grieving frinnds in thn contnxt of God's incredible gift to us. tlw Eucharist. which is the central and compnlling force whieh ultimatnly unites us. And it is what happens in so many diiTernnt and less dramatic situa­tions when peopl11 are with and snrvn others, as when we enlebratn thn Eucharist in our residence halls, or whnn wo cheer on a Notre Damn or a residence hall team, or when we simply walk around our beautiful cam pus whose many spoeial places raisn our hearts and minds to (;od with gratitudn and a sm1sn of awn that is never absent whnn a Notre Damn man or woman is home. 
Tim Solie is home. And he will never have to leave home again. 
Father Richard Warner is the director ofCampus Ministry. 1/e can be contact­ed at Warner.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Defending acaderrlic forum 
I firmly believe that Matthew of immoral and/or illegal actions. In Hamilton's Sept. 26 Viewpoint letter is that respect, Israel has failed as a almost entirely made up of wild and democracy by failing to uphold demo­unsubstantiated elaims. Therefore, l cratic valuf1s. But to call the Intifada offer these critiques of it in the interest "noble" is to liken murder and suicide of the sincere pursuit of truth. to heroic deeds. No amount of rnpres­
What's wrong with "engineering" sion or injustice justifies the murder of some "polite" inter-faith dialogue? I'd human beings. Your def1mse of rather have calm, rational discussion Palestinian tmrorism and eall for tho than an angry shouting match. As for end of the Zionist statP sound like the the "meaningful alternatives" you claim latest llamas and llnzbollah talking were left out, I have one point to make. points. There are many in this world Consider the alternatives to some of the who believe, unlike you, that tho con­major ideas supported by the panelists. tinued existence of lsraol is compatible An acceptance of religious and/or secu­with " ... Jews, Arabs, Muslims and lar fundamentalism, rather than a Christians llivingl side by side as rejection of it? A de-emphasis on equals ... " Building a path toward that women's rights, rather than concern end is part of why places like Notre for them? A combination of church and Dame have forums such as this one. By state, rather than a separation of the way, I'd like to thank you for your them? Let us loudly lament that these crass and baseless implication that my "extremist," "self-righteous," and fellow conservatives and I are anti­"overly disruptive" views were kept out Semitic. Such thoughtfulness is a hall­of the forum. mark of a competent and considerate 
But perhaps you meant that there are thinker. reasonable but misrepresented views You engage in similar untruthful that were ignored. You, Hamilton, cer­characterization regarding Cardinal tainly brought up a few in your letter. Hodriguez. For you to jump to the eon­Let's see if the ideas you support are elusion that the cardinal " ... donied thn worthy of inelusion in a good dialogue. reality of the abuse of ehildrnn ... "sim­
You claim that the U.S. is an empire ply because he criticized how the scan­and certainly imply that it is an oppres­dal was covered is a logical fallaey. sive colonialist empire. But what native Many believe that some media outlets races have we deliberately and pur­have little love for the Church and posefully oppressed (terrorists don't often misrepresent it. I share that count)? What territory have we forcibly belief, but I certainly do not dony that annexed with the intent of permanent the abusn happnnnd and caused real occupation? Iraq? Afghanistan? harm. They've both had elections free of U.S. There are many more elaims in your eontrol or influence, other than physi­letter that l wish l could exposo for the cal security for voters and polling tripe they are. With the spaee I havo places. So much for "the American way left, let me ofl"er a suggestion. Before of life" equaling "the racist colonization you go spouting your trash in this or of the Middle East." As for the other any other medium again, Mr. llamilton, elaims you make on the true meaning I suggest you first present us with ered­of phrases such as "prosperity and ible evidence and reasoning supporting freedom" and "helping the poor," no what you say. one I know and no one I've heard, other than a few Communist dictators, Cole R. Milliard uses those phrases in the manner you junior describe. O'Neill 
I will grant that Israel may be guilty Sept. 27 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Thursday, September 29, 2005 
TV REVIEW 

Keys plugs into MTV's 'Unplugged' 
recent album, The Diary ofBy BRODERICK HENRY 
Alicia Keys, was per­
Scene Critic 
formed first. The hip-hop inspired records sounded When MTV Unplugged premiered in strikingly different with the late 1980s, it started what many string and percussion consider a mini-musical revolution. instruments rather than In its infancy, the hour-long show synthesized beats. In fact, consisted of major pop acts performing they seemed much more their hits with only acoustic instru­playful and funkier. ments. Since its inception, Unplugged .Together the songs gave has been credited with making pure the show a much needed artistry and musical arrangements rel­burst of energy and were a evant in popular music. great recovery from the 
The series has grown so influential opening. that a poor showing could mean the Next, Keys elected to crippling of an artist's career, while a perform "Woman's Worth," great performance may offer an artist one of her best songs to legendary status. Few can forget date. The artist's thick Nirvana's appearance on the show, vocals engulfed the piano which marked the last televised per­accompaniment as she formance by Kurt Cobain. Music lovers sang sincerely. The warn­are still clamoring over Jay-Z's 2001 ing to male listeners,"You appearance, as it not only solidified will lose if you choose to him as the best rapper in the game but refuse to put her first," also showed the world what hip-hop appeared to be a message could and should be. Keys knew all to well. At 
Alicia Keys was confronted with such the same time, "Worth" a reality when she decided to resurrect provided viewers their the series after a three-year shelving first opportunity to experi­by MTV. Friday the Grammy winner ence Keys' incredible made sure to acknowledge the magna­backup vocalists. Their nimity of moment and not disappoint. well-crafted and beautiful­
Keys' performance, which was actu­ly sung harmonies served 

Alicia Keys performed both soulfully and charismatically on MTV's "Unplugged." The show,
ally taped July 14 at Brooklyn's Harvey as a sharp contrast to the 

which first aired in the late 1980s has hosted acts such as Jay-Z and grunge band Nirvana.
Theater, began rather clumsily with the songstress' sultry voice. young star singing a prayer acappela. They would earn their In a sense, Keys was invoking the keep this evening as they made each arrangement definitely gave a new feel range and highlighted her tendency to Muses for inspiration much like the song come alive. to the ballad. shout on records with gospel influ­Greeks did years ago. However, the Part of Keys' appeal is her ability to Yet, the highlight of the evening was ences. It is clear that Keys still has a attempt fell flat because she lacks the take a classic piano medley and make "Diary." Keys and backup singer Paul fair amount of growth to undergo. Yet, vocal stylings of a Beyonce to sing it her own. Often, the process involves Green played wonderfully off each at this point, she supersedes any of her without musical accompaniment. sampling other artists' work, but occa­other. When Keys reached for her peers in ambition, creativity and over­
Once the artist positioned herself sionally it means reviving a well-known upper vocal register, Green went right all artistry. From this appearance, it is behind her piano, however, she would hit of your own like "If I Ain't Got You." up there with her. obvious she is a legend in the making. shine brightly. Keys chose to sing the song in a lower Overall, there were one or two mis­
A medley of "Karma" and key with much more emphasis on the steps, including "Every Little Bit Contact Broderick Henry at "Heartburn," two songs off Keys' most vocals rather than the music. The new Hurts." The song stretched the star's bhenry 1 @nd.edu · 

CD REVIEW 

Icelandic melodies are unmistakable blend of new flavors 
By VINCE LABRIOLI Scene Critic 
They have collaborated with Radiohead, been lauded by Chris Martin of Coldplay, and with their new album entitled "takk ... " Icelandic rockers Sigur R6s have produced a new, lighter sound that may move them into the limelight shared by the aforementioned bands and others in mainstream alternative music. 
Their most accessible album to date, "takk ... " is simultaneously fiery and uplift­ing, an intense, atmospheric album that is great for long walks with the iPod or sim­ply as background music while studying. 
"takk ... " is by no means a traditional album, continuing the trend Sigur R6s set with their first release, 1997's "von." That album was never widely released in the U.S., but the group's second effort, "agretis byrjun," was released in America to excel­lent reviews and established the band as a difficult, if ultimately rewarding, listening experience. Both "von" and "agretis byr­jun" are long, emotional albums with indi­vidual tracks that often take as long as 10 minutes to play out, filled with electronic buzzes and strange instruments that can haunt the listener well after the music has ended. 

Perhaps the most signature element of Sigur R6s' compositions are the ethereal, sexless vocals that drift thro.ugh the tracks. They are spoken in Icelandic and, for the most part, seem completely incom­prehensible. 
The vocals become yet another part of the evocative arrangements that Sigur R6s is known for. This new effort is no differ­ent. Although vocals were completely missing from the band's previous album, given the unpronounceable title "( )," "takk... " is filled with wistful spo­ken melodies that permeate every track. However, "takk... " is a much more tradi­tionally structured album than those that preceded it. Ambient noise fills much less space on the tracks, without compro­mising the ele­


albums. Nevertheless, it's difficult to talk about individual tracks on "takk .... " When the album is listened to from beginning to end it's nearly impossible to discern where one song ends and the next begins. 
Such is the case with "von," "agretis byr-· jun" and "( )," but those three albums are · heavy and dark, with only moments where the music eases up from its relent­less drive onward. In short, they're not the best albums to listen to when you're hav­ing a bad day, but they are the best albums to listen to when you want to brood. "takk ... ," by comparison, dedicates a considerable amount of time to simple, repetitious bell and xylophone melodies that give several songs an uplifting quality missing from Sigur R6s' earlier albums. 
This is most apparent in the second and sixth tracks of the album, titled "gl6s6li" and "saegl6pur," respectively. The latter in particular builds melodies and vocals on top of one another in such a powerful and unique way that while it is certainly a new sound, it remains unmistakably the work of Sigur R6s. 
Considered one of the most "artsy, avant-garde" groups currently producing, there is no doubt that Sigur R6s is an acquired taste. However, with "takk... " the band was willing to explore new ends of the musical spectrum and, as a result, created yet another amazing album. More than anything else, Sigur R6s has created their own unique brand of alternative music, and if you're in the mood for some­thing intense, emotional and, most impor­tantly, different, the Icelandic melodies on "takk ... " are worth spending some time with. 
Contact Vmce Labrioli at vlabriol@nd.edu 
gant, slow, plod­
Recommended tracks: 'gl6s6li' and 'saegl6pur' 
ding style that typified previous 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, September 29, 2005 
page 15 
CONCERT PREVIEW 
11ngratn Hill' to bring southern style to Notre Datne 
By MARY SQUILLACE 
Scene C:riric 
Thorn arn cnrtain songs that eonnotn the fenling ol' cruising down wide-open l'ountry roads -songs that almost rPquirn windows down and a full view of the down-home countryside that strntdws ahead. With its emotionally­drivmJ, sing-out-loud lyrics, powerful 
guitar intnrplay and load singnr Justin Moore's dis­tinctive southnrn aeeent, band Ingram llill invites Notrn Dame students to takn just such a journey this Saturday at LPgnruls. 
l'n~d ietably, thn four­pinen band hails from the south, and nvnn found the inspiration for its name along a Mississippi high­way. 
"There was an exit sign 

along tlw highway, and it actually says 'Ingram's Mill,' but I misread the sign 
as 'Ingram llill,' and when we were deciding what to call ourselves, we liked the name and where it came from, so we decided to use it," Moore said in an interview on ingramhillmu­sic.eom. "Arter we had the name for a while and told people where it carne from. they wen~ like, 'You idiots -it's Ingram's Mill."' 
However, fans have since overlooked tlw Memphis-based band's geographi­


"/ would love to end up something like U2. Something that's huge. " 
Phil Bogard guitarist 
cally incorrect name. To date, Ingram llill's sue­cess consists of two album releases, radio play, television appear­ances and the song "Will I Ever Make It Horne" appearing in both the movie and on the sound­traek of "13 Going on 30." 
Additionally, after opening for a variety of headliners, from Maroon 
5 to Lisa Marie Presley, Ingram Hill made enough of an impression on the 


Currently the band is in the
"This album is a

We're proud of process of a nearly nonstop where we're from, blueprint ofour tour across tlw country, and and we're proud of lives." its rnembnrs' ambitions what we do." remain unhampnred by tlwir 
But the album hectic schedule. 
Phil Bogard

presents more than "I don't want to sound simply a unique guitarist arrogant, but I would love to 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Student band'Appetite For Destruction' plays to classic tastes 
ly found a new lineup in a uniquely Irish question is a no-brainer. The way they way with the addition of guitarist Will see it, G&H is just a great rock band with McAulliiTe, a discovery from the Keenan a broad appeal. Their songs are surpris­Hevue. ingly well-known to most people, which 
"A friend of ours ... aetually heard his lends the band's concerts to having a fun voice, and thought that it would be ... vibe of familiarity and 80s nostalgia. 
optimal for a Guns N' Roses  "Guns N' Hoses is the  
tribute band," Collins said, recalling the fateful interac­ ''Their concerts are  ultimate party,'' said McAulliffe, and the other  
tion. Having lost two mem­bers of their former band due to their graduation, Collins and Marnocha felt  the most fun thing to do in South Bend."  members agree, adding that classic tracks such as "November Rain," "Sweet Child of Mine" and fan  
that the time was just right  favorite "Paradise City"  
for a change to a new genre. In the past, Appetite for  Joe Donnelly senior  keep people coming back to the band for great per­ 

to acquire some lngends of its own. At one of their recent perf'orrnancns, several audience members began dancing onstage with the band. As the first snt concluded. one young man stage dove into the crowd. Twenty minutos later, his father followed suit. Crazy, sure-but for a band in the tradition of' Axel Hose, the crazy is to be expeded. .. 
The band's performances usually con­sist of Guns N' Hoses standards, as well as interpretations of other songs in a G&H style. Hecently they have retooled Erie Clapton's "Wonderful Tonight," and Friday night they performed a Led Zeppelin medley in similar fashion. Eventually, Collins said, the band plans on writing some of its own material, but for now its current song library will definitely suffice. 
"Seeing the reaction of people to this stu!T is unbnlievable," Collins said. "What I would say to people is to come see every show ·you can, because it's a huge party every time. We darn you to come and not like it." 
Contact Analise Lapari at alipari@nd.edu 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene C:riric 
Bookmakers' Pub in South Bend is usu­ally considernd to be a fun, unassuming sports bar. Last Friday night, however, it was transformed into a concert venue with a hard roek twist as Appetite for Dnstruction -a Guns N' Hoses cover band of four Notre Dame students -took the stage for a pnrformance of 1980s rock and roll bliss. 
Consisting of Notre Dame students Brnndon Collins, Will McAullil'f'n, Matt Marnoeha and Chris Campbell, Appetite for Destruction played to a full house Friday night with every intention of eov­nring the wide range of Guns N' Hoses dassics. It was aiming for, as the band's llyers for the eoneert proclaimed, "the PAHTY of the MILLENIUM." 
The genesis of the band is found in the musical partnorship of drummer Collins and lead guitarist and pianist Marnocha, who have been playing together for more than a decade. Despite being members of dill'erent bands on and ofT, they eventual-
road that the band was able to head­
line itself the second time through cities. This success paved tho way for the band's recent fu 11-length al burn debut, "June's Picture Show." Tho album features what tho band has branded "pop-rock with a southern twist," and the band draws upon inf'luences as diverse as the Black Crowes and Tonic. "We're a rock and roll band," Moore said, "and we want to have guitar solos, but we also write songs. ... Someone once said that if there was a southern pop category, we'd own it. I kinda like that. 
sound. 

"This album is a 
kind of blueprint of our lives as emo­
tional beings," guitarist Phil Bogard 
said. "It's about everything that's 
affeeted us up to this point -the 
major pains and the good things as well." 
These emotions are not only expressed in lyrics of songs like "On end up something like U2,'' 
Bogard said. "Somnthing that's huge and lasts forevnr -that would definitoly be the ultimate goal." 
Ingram llill brings its southern style to Legends' stage on Saturday at I 0 p.m. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquilla@nd.edu 
formances. 
"Their concerts are the most fun thing to do in South Bend," said Notre Dame senior Joe Donnelly. "The real Guns N' Roses haven't sounded this good since 1989. I think that if Slash heard some of their guitar solos on Friday, he would immediately run back to his rehearsal studio to practice." 
For a band that covers the song cata­logue of one of rock's most legendary bands, Appetite for Destruction has come Destruction (whose name derives from, logically, an early Guns N' Roses album) has per­formed at some local clubs, sueh as Club 23, as well as larger performances sueh as one at the State Theatre a few months ago. As they progress, the band members see themselves playing at larger and larg­er venues. Eventually they also plan to tour several Midwest cities and states. 
But why Guns N' Roses? To the mem­bers of Appetite for Destruction, this My Way," a catchy anthem about post­breakup bitterness, and "Almost Perfect," whieh describes an agonizing love-triangle -but also surl'ace in Moorn's sincern and powerful vocals. 

Unsurprisingly, tlw inspiration for a number of' these tracks stmnmed from the breakup of a ndationship. 
"I was dnvastated when it ended, hut I'm thankful for it now,'' Moon~ said. "It's provided me witb tons of material. I look at it as an emotional investnwnt. We'd all been through some issues with women, and, boy, that's the easiest thing to write about, I'll tell you what. 
And it seems like peopln 
relate to it." 

r-----------------------------------------------· 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 29, 2005 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
White Sox down Tigers, pad AL Central lead 
Yankees take one game lead over Red Sox in AL East; Indians fall to D-Rays 
Associated Press 
After taking a huge division lead and nearly giving it all up, the Chicago White Sox need just one more win to clinch a berth in the playoffs. 
Jose Contreras won his eighth straight start and Scott Podsednik had four hits, lead­ing the White Sox over the Detroit Tigers 8-2 Wednesday night and opening a three­game lead for Chicago in the AL Central. 
The White Sox would clinch no worse than a wild-card berth in the playoffs with one win in their last four games. 
"I just know we've got to win tomorrow," White Sox catcher 
A.J. Pierzynski said. "We've got four games left and that's the most important one." 
With Chicago's victory and second-place Cleveland's 1-0 loss to Tampa Bay, the White Sox lowered their magic num­ber to two for clinching their first division title since 2000. After Thursday's series finale in Detroit, the White Sox finish the regular season with three games at Cleveland. 
"To worry about what they're going to do in another city, you worry about stu(ffu stuff you can't control," White Sox man­ager Ozzie Guillen. "Just come back tomorrow and win the game." 
Chicago, which had lost its previous two games, led the AL Central by 15 games on Aug. 1 -no team with a lead of more than 13 games has ever failed to finish first. 
Carl Everett's two-run triple broke a 1-1 tie in the fifth, and Juan Uribe and Aaron Rowand homered for the White Sox, who had 15 hits. 
Carlos Pena homered for Detroit. 
Contreras (15-7) gave up two runs and seven hits in eight innings, walked none and struck out nine, one short of his career high. Bobby Jenks fin­ished with a three-hit ninth. 
Tampa Bay 1, Cleveland 0 
Aaron Boone sat silently in his recliner at the far end of the Indians' quiet clubhouse, his only companions two ice wraps to help comfort a season's worth of bumps and bruises. 
On Wednesday night, the pain was a little deeper. 
"I justdidn't get it done," said Boone, who failed to get a sac­rifice bunt down in the eighth inning of Cleveland's loss to 


CLASSIFIEDS 
Tampa Bay. "It's frustrating." 
Suddenly, there's another AL Central team cracking under the pressure. 
And for the Indians, it's hap­pening at the worst time possi­ble. 
Seth McClung pitched eight shutout innings as the Devil Rays beat Cleveland for the fifth straight time, dropping the 
-Indians three games behind the first-place Chicago White Sox with four to play. McClung (7-11) allowed four hits and only two runners to reach second base while out­pitching Cliff Lee (18-5) and handing the Indians their third straight setback _ the club's first three-game slide since being swept by the Devil Rays on Aug. 12-14. The second-place Indians, who trailed the White Sox by 15 games on Aug. 1, host Chieago for three games to end the reg­ular season. But by Friday, it might not matter who they play or where. "It's still in our hands," said Lee, who lost for the first time since July 8. "It's just going to be a little tougher." Despite the loss, the Indians stayed tied for the wild-card lead with Boston. 
Toronto 7, Boston 2 
Bronson Arroyo doesn't have time to worry about his spot in the playoff rotation yet. He still might have to help the Red Sox get there. 
In his last scheduled start of the regular season, Arroyo gave up three homers as Boston lost to Toronto Wednesday night and dropped one game behind the Yankees in the AL East. The Red Sox have four games remaining, and Arroyo will be available in the bullpen for the three-game weekend series against New York. 
"We'll try to wipe this one away as quickly as possible," said Arroyo, who allowed seven runs and seven hits in three­plus innings. "I only threw 79 pitches, so I feel like I'll be healthy for the Yankees.... You always hope for the opportuni­ty. So, we'll see." 
Boston (92-66) remained tied in the wild-card race with Cleveland Indians, who lost to the Tampa Bay Devil Rays 1-0. The Red Sox play Toronto on Thursday, then close with three games at Fenway Park against the Yankees (93-65). 


"This is the playoffs right now," outfielder Johnny Damon said. "It's amazing. It's here already before October comes." 
Frank Catalanotto doubled, tripled and homered as the Blue Jays opened a 7-1 lead and won their second straight over the Red Sox. Vernon Wells and Eric Hinske also homered, and Ted Lilly (1 0-11) allowed two runs, six hits and five walks in 6 2-3 innings to improve to 3-0 with a 2.40 ERA against the Red Sox this sea­son. 
Boston was just 1-for-10 with runners in scoring position and has been shut out for 9 2-3 innings by Toronto relievers. 
"We scored some runs to give him a little breathing room," Blue Jays manager John Gibbons said. "He pitched good. He got out of some big jams." 
Arroyo (14-10) hadn't allowed a homer while winning four consecutive decisions with a 
3.71 ERA in September, and had been 7-0 in the month for his career. But he gave up three homers -a season high -in the first three innings. 
New York 2, Baltimore 1 
Alex Rodriguez's eyes darted to the television screen as reporters gathered around his locker in the New York Yankees' clubhouse. 

Instead of fielding a question, he asked one. "What inning is it?" he inquired. 
Moments after the Yankees beat the Baltimore Orioles Wednesday night, Rodriguez and his teammates rushed off the field to find out if the victo­ry thrust New York into sole possession of first place in the AL East, one game ahead of Boston. 
After Manny Ramirez made the final out for the Red Sox in a 7-2 loss to Toronto, there was no commotion in the New York clubhouse. Just a feeling of sat­isfaction that will last at least until Thursday night's game against Baltimore. 
"It doesn't mean anything unless you come in and play well tomorrow," Rodriguez said. "It's obviously better to have a one-game lead than a tie, but we still have to come out here and play an important game tomorrow night." 
Rodriguez hit a milestone homer, Derek Jeter singled in the tiebreaking run in the sev­enth inning, and the Yankees used a fine pitching perform­ance by Shawn Chacon to get past the Orioles. 
Boston and New York meet in a three-game series beginning Friday night. The Yankees' vic­tory Wednesday means New York will need no more than two wins at Fenway Park to capture the division crown. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game. PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAIL-Bedrooms includes all utilities, local Call203-261-8717 Jim. ABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS phone, washer/dryer, security sys­
,, 
NOTICES WANTED FoR SALE 
UP TO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO ND. tem. $400/student. Office 234-9334, WANTED:ND-USC football tix. TOP 
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early Local family needs part-time care-1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli-FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL Cell 315-2509 $$$PAID. CALL 574-232-2378 
and Save Lowest Prices Hottest giver for five-month-old boy. Flex ances.$69,000. Call Kim Kollar 574-KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS -ndstudentrentals.com 
A.M. 574-288-2726 P.M. 

Destinations weekday schedule available. Must 280-8160. OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315­love children & have experience 5032. 
BUY/SELUTRADE OR SWAP ND 

BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR caring for infants. References req. Single/married faculty/staff. Own a TICKETS FOOTBALL TIX. 289-8048. 
CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY Transportation necessary. Call lovely home near ND for less than Free room/board,male,chores/tasks 11n Highest Commission Best (574)271-0747. you pay for rent. Believe it! Call aixcertified@ hotmail.com WANTED: ND F.OOTBALL TIX. 
NEED USC & TENN TIX & PARK-

Travel Perks Dale (574) 243-9547 or 210-0481. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
lNG PASS. 574-276-8507.

ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work Coldwell Banker. YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-$12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched-ments available for 06·07 school 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 
426-7710 . ules around classes, Gain exp. in year. Call today 235-7234 . 
289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB­
PERSONAL
customer sales & service, SITE FOR$$: 

Conditions apply, all ages 17 & BLUE & GOLD HOMES. Best rates www. victorytickets.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 

older, Call Today 574-273-3835. GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH-for weekend, monthly & yearly
LOST AND FOUND not go it alone. If you or someone
BORHOODS rentals. 574-250-7653. 

BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT-you love needs confidential support Alpha Graphics is seeking full & p/1 BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 
or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.

FOUND: Man s ND class ring at employee for customer service, dig-andersonNDrentals.com Rooms in private home for rent dur­
273-3911. 
Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more

Castlepoint Apts. MSU weekend. ital archiving & bindery work. ing ND football weekends or other information, see our bi-weekly ad in
Call Judy at 272-8110 to identify & Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND ND-SMC events. Need 4 tix to any football game. 
THE OBSERVER. 

claim. Apply at 201 N. Main, SB. game weekends. 7732182203 Call 243-0658. Call Jack 574-674-6593. 
FoR RENT 

Thursday, September 29, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Red Sox, Yankees push for playoffs 
Associated Press 
Throughout tlw rieh fabric of baseball history, the Boston Bed Sox and Nnw York Yankees keep showing up, tlwir seasons froquontly intnr­t.wirwd. tlwir destinies of't<Hl dntermined in head-to-head showdowns. 
From Death Valley in Yankee Stadium to tlw Creon Monster in Fenway Park, a litany of dramatic confronta­tions oftpn have dnfinnd thnir seasons. 
Tlw eharaetnrs change. Wlwn~ on<~n thorn worn the YanknP Clipper and t.hn Spl<~ndid Splinter, and later (),mt and Yaz, now we havn A­Bod and Big l'api. Instead of Basehi pitching against Kinder. tlw Yankees have tho Big Unit and the Hed Sox have Boomer. 
It all adds up to the same thing -one final series between two old rivals to set­tin the season's accounts. 
Tlwy'll do it again this wnck­erHl at Boston, thrn11 games to decide the AI. East champi­onship, the Yankees and Hnd Sox going mano-a-mano. 
Perfect. 
Only once lwlim~ it did come down to this, the Hod Sox and Yankees playing a final rngu­lar-season series for first place. 
In I ')49, tlwir fatns eamn down to the last two games of tlw season. Boston held a onn­ganw lead with two to play at Yankee Stadium. The math was simple for the Hed Sox: win a ganw and win tho pen­nant. Tho challenge was a bit morn daunting for the Yankees, who had no margin for error. Lose one and they were done. 
A year earlier, the Yankees, Hod Sox and Cleveland Indians were locked in a thre<~-way battle for an AL pennant that was uncomplicated by divi­sions. With one eye on the scornboard and ho~ (:J<weland was doing, Boston beat New York in tho season's final two gamos. That knocked the Yankons out of thn race and forcnd a playoff with the Indians that Cleveland won. 
Now, a year later, the Indians were out of the pie­turn. This showdown would be strictly a two-team affair. Nobody would have to watch the scoreboard this time. 
Tho Hed Sox had rhased the Yankees all season, gaining the lead a weekend earlier by sweeping New York in Fenway Park. Then they WPnt on the road for thnir final five games, three in Washington against the hapless Senators and the final two at Yankee Stadium. When they arrived in New York, the Hed Sox were still elinging to that slender one­game lead. 
The two teams worn crowd­ed with superstars. 
Boston had MVP Ted Williams, who batted .343 and lnd the league with a career­best 43 home runs and tied teanunatn Vern Stephens with 159 HBis, and a pitrhing staff headed by 25-gamn winner Mel Parnell and Ellis Kinder, who won 23. 
NFL 

Patriots clutch in crunch time 
Associated Press 
FOXBOHOUGB. Mass. "Fonzic" takes the field with 81 seconds left and the game tied. "Robin Hood" follows with 5 sec­onds left and kieks the winning field goal. 
Better known as Tom Brady and Adam Vinatieri, the combi­nation manages to stay calm and produce under pressure time after time. 
Josh Miller, the New England Patriots' talented punter and punster, marvels so much at their eluteh performances that he came up with those nick­names. Brady is "Fonzie," the epitome of enol from the televi­sion show "Happy Days." Vinatieri is "Hobin Hood," who helps those in need. 
But what about Miller? "Josh is a funny guy," Brady said Wednesday with a grin. 
There arc plenty of smiles in the Patriots' locker room this week after Vinatieri's 43-yard lield goal with 1 second left gave them a 23-20 win at Pittsburgh last Sunday. Brady set it up by completing all three of his pass­es on the drive for 37 yards as part of his 12-for-12 fourth quarter. 
It was Vinatieri's 18th winning field goal in the fourth quarter or overtime. Two of thmn came in Super Bowls. It also was the 18th drive in Brady's live sea­sons as a starter that ended with the Patriots taking the lead in the fourth quarter or overtime. 
Last Sunday, they started at their 38-yard line with 1:21 left and the score tied at 20. 
"All you can do is put yourself in that situation. What would you do'?'' Miller said, "but you're watching this guy who's just like Fonzie. It's awesome.... lie's just a cool cat. He doesn't get rat­tled." 


Neither does Vinatieri, who depends on Miller to take the snap from Lonie Paxton and hold the ball properly. 
"We have Robin Hood who just comes in, does his thing and leaves. lie's cool," Miller said. 
The analogy isn't precise because Robin Hood took from the rich and gave to the poor. Winning thren Super Bowls in four years doesn't qualify the Patriots as needy, but in individ­ual games they sometimes find themselves behind and in need of a rescuer. 
Vinatieri never heard Miller usc the Hobin flood comparison and prefers to focus on the basics without mnbellishment:. 
the lield." 
They did it in the Super Bowl that eapped the 2001 season. With the score tind at I 7, tlw Patriots startod at thnir 17-yard line with 1:21 to go and no limn­outs Id't. Brady complntml live of eight passes-ineluding two spikes to stop tho dock -and Vinatieri kicked a 48-yard linld goal as timo nxpirnd for a 20-17 win over St. Louis. 
Two years later, tim seom was tied at 29 with 1 :08 left. Brady complotnd his last four passes to set up Vinatieri's 41-yard finld goal with 4 sneonds left that have Nnw England a :~2-29 win over Carolina. 
Brady and Vinatinri also exePI at dnl'locting praisn, a trait eneouragod by coach Bill Bnlkhiek, who emphasizns team 


lie simply takes his position, sueenss over individual glory. watches where the ball is spot­"There are a lot of guys out ted and tries to use the same there doing a great job," Brady form every time -whether it's said. "I think I'm in tho right an extra point or a field goal, an place at thn right time and part exhibition game or the Super of a great l'ootball team and Bowl. happy to be the quartnrback." 
"It's fun being on this team "Josh does a great job" hold­because it just seems like we ing tho ball, Vinatinri said, "and always have a ehanee to win," Lonie makes it easy for all of us Vinatieri said. "Whenever he's with as good a snapper as he is. got the ball and a minute left, I So there's a lot of things that go feel pretty confident that Tom into a successful lield goal or and the fellas can move it down extra point." 
Pacific Coast Concerts 
liNIVI~RSITY Of.' NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2006-7 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR XAVIER JARDIN. SCIENCES-PO, PARIS CLA UD!A KSELMAN. ND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2005 
5:00 PM 202 DBRT 

Sondoy Octob42r 30.. 2005 • 7:00pm 
~~ . Horrfs Performing flrts Cvntvr ~(('••"",;... \ South Bend, lndlan<1 '-1/rvY!.I""'~>"· Tldtwh ava.Uablo at Honis Bo11 Offlte, Chorga by phona 574/Zl$-9190 Of 800/UJ-6415 
----------------------------------, 
OUND THE NATION 
~---­
! 


page 18 
Women's Soccer Top 25  
team  record  
1 2 2 4  North Carolina Penn State Portland UCLA  10·0·0 10·0·0 9·0·0 8+0  2 3 6  

5 NOTRE DAME 
·f:i~ .9+0 
6 Santa Clara 7+1 7 Florida State 8·1-0 

8 Virginia 7·2-1 13 9 Pepperdine 8·0·1 g 10 Duke 6·0·1 8 11 TexasA&M 7+1 14 12 Boston College 7-lf-1 12 12 Brigham Young 9·0·1 16 14 Florida 6·2·1 10 15 California 7·2·1 11 16 Wake Forest 6·2·1 15 17 connecticut 5~2-1 17 18 Stanford 4-3·1 20 19 Marquette 9·1·1 16 19 Michigan 5·2·2 22 21 Illinois tl-2·2 24 22 Arizona 5·2·2 22 22 Cal State-Fullerton 7·2·0 NR 24 California Poly 6-1-3 21 25 Yale 7·2·0 NR 
AVCA Volleyball Top 25 
team record Prev. 
1 Nebraska 11·0 1 2 Washington 10·0 2 3 Stanford 13·1 3 4 Penn State 11-2 4 5 Florida 12·1 6 6 Louisville 11·0 7 7 Missouri 10·0 8 8 Wisconsin 10·1 10 9 Minnesota 11·2 5 10 NOTRE DAME 8·1 11 11 Hawaii 7-6 9 12 San Diego 10·1 14 13 Arizona 10·1 15 14 California 9-2 25 15 Santa Clara 10-1 18 16 Kansas Slate 11-2 11 17 UC!-A 7·4 13 18 Ohio State B-3 16 19 Southern California H 12 20 Brigham Young 9·0 22 21 Purdue 11-2 19 22 Texas 7-2 23 23 Texas A&M 7-5 20 24 LSU .12·1 Na 25 Long Beach St. 10·3 NR 
Big East Volleyball stan<r gs 
·:mr=  team  conf.  ~t;>  overall  ·:·::::tiMNl  
Louisville  2-Q  1.000  11·0  1.000  
NOTRE DAME  1-Q  1.000  9·1  ¥0.900  
Villanova  2·0  1.000  12·3  ;;;;:;0.800  
Syracuse CincinrtaU  2·0 2·0  1.000 ...... 10·4 tQ.IlO ., . 8·5<  4 .. t61~ ;., ....  
Georgetown  1-1  o~soo  5-9  ~.~7  
Marquette  1·1  o.soo  7·6  n.saa  
Pittsburgh Seton Hall  1·1 1-1  uno 0.500  8-7 7-7  0.533  
RutgersIJ:;; DePaul~;,~::= St. John's  .•.. 1·1 0-1 0-2  orsoo 0.000 8:800  a~ 3-9 14-5  
West Virginia Conneclicut  0·2 0·2  uoo IUOO  11f.5 5-7  
South Florida  0-2  

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Air Force at Colorado State 6:30 p.m., ESPN Southeast Missouri State at Samford 6:30p.m., ESPNU 
MLB Chicago White Sox at Detroit 12 p.m., Comcast Chicago Cubs at Houston 7:05 p.m., Comcast 

CoMrruo FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES Thursday, September 29, 2005 
NFL 


Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. ­For now, the Tennessee Titans are putting their trust in running back Chris Brown. 
The Titans (1-2) lost Travis Henry on Monday to a four-game suspension for violating the NFL's sub­stance abuse policy, and coach Jeff Fisher said that freed up some money for Tennessee to possibly add a running back to the ros­ter to fill that void. 
But they hadn't made a roster move through Wednesday, and Fisher said Brown is ready to handle the work Sunday against the Indianapolis Colts (3-0). 

"He believes that if he can get on a roll and get moving, then we are going to keep feeding him the ball. That was our approach going into the game last week. This is really no different than last year," Fisher said. 
Pending a late move, rookie Damien Nash, a fifth-round pick out of Missouri, will back up Brown. Fisher also said fullback Troy Fleming is another option and that promoting Jarrett Payton, the son of the late Walter Payton, off the practice squad remains a possibility. 
The reason the Titans swapped a third-round pick to Bufi'alo for llenry in July before training camp was because they wanted an insurance policy for Brown. A third-round pick out of Colorado in 2003, Brown missed five games because of injuries as a rookie and five more in 2004 with turf toe. 
Brown may be at his healthiest yet despite a concussion on his first reception against Baltimore on Sept. 18 that sidelined him for the sec­ond half. Through three games, he had 39 carries for 179 yards with Henry getting 31 rushes for 97 yards. 
"He is issue-free I guess you could call it right now," Fisher said .. 
"He feels good and he is looking forward to the challenge this week with this defense. You have to hit the hole exceptionally fast and quick to get creas­es because things close up very quickly. 
He knows .it is a chal­lenge as does our offensive line." 
Brown is ready to show the Titans he can handle the work. 
''I'm just going to go out there knowing my team­mates are depending on me to get the job done." 
IN BRIEF 
McNair misses practice, will 
play against Colts 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Tennessee quarterback Steve McNair didn't practice Wednesday because of a sore foot, but isn't expected to miss any more time. 
McNair and receiver Drew Bennett, who were not listed on the early injury report, sat out practice because of sore feet. Both were added to the injury report after prac­tice. 
McNair is expected back on the field Thursday. 
"I think both of them will practice tomorrow," Titans coach Jeff Fisher said. 
Defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth, who missed last week's 31-27 loss at St. Louis with a sprained left knee, remains question­able. Fisher said both Haynesworth and receiver Courtney Roby (left turf toe) are improving. 
Linebacker Peter Sirmon could 

have practiced but didn't. He played last weekend despite an injury to his right knee. 
"What we wanted was to just shut him down. He did a great job getting back last week. We kept him out of change-of-direction things and got some conditioning and shut him down," Fisher said. Champ Car World Series cancels Korea race 
The Champ Car World Series called off its Grand Prix of Ansan, sched­uled for Oct. 16 in South Korea, a blow for a series struggling to regain its place in the top echelon of racing. 
But series executive vice president Joe Chrnelich said Wednesday that dropping the race, even two weeks before the race, is not a big setback for the American-based open-wheel series. 
"At first blush it would appear to be a step backward, but what it real­ly demonstrates is that we are going to do whatever it takes to ensure that every Champ Car race is a world­class event," he said. Winborn loses starting job,
will leave via trade 
SANTA ClARA, Calif. -Linebacker Jamie Winborn cleaned out his locker and left the San Francisco 49ers on Wednesday as the club abruptly announced plans to trade the former starter. 
Winborn lost his job to converted defensive end Andre Carter last week, and coach Mike Nolan suggested the fifth-year pro should stay away while the 49ers find him a new home. 
"He sees himself as a starter, and I would tend to agree with that," Nolan said. "It just won't be here." 
Winborn's departure is the biggest move yet in a promised shakeup by Nolan, who hasn't been pleased with the 49ers (1-2) after consecutive loss­es. 
Nolan said he already received sev­eral inquiries from teams seeklng the speedy linebacker. 
Thursday, September 29, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Torre calm throughout his tenure with Yanks 
af'tllr six months ol' managing end ol' the regular season, the

Despite never-ending 
undnr the scrutiny ol' millions Yankfles wore unsun1 whether stress, Yankees coach ol' l'ans and (;norge they'd wind up in the playol'fs Steinbrenner, thn most visibly for the 11th straight year ­fails to lose control demanding owner in sports. and whether failure would Only artnr the season, per­result in the 65-year-old man­Associated Press 
haps when the Torre l'amily ager's oustnr. !wads to Maui each December, Baseball's first team with a 

Nl·:W YOHK -As tlw season will tho tension completely dis­$200 million payroll had to draws to a 1~losn, Jon Torre's sipate. scramble back into contention wil'e can tell how wearing it's "My wil'e notieos more than I a1'1.er an 11-19 start, its worst been. do. She sees me and then, all since 1966. Searching for the 
lin is a littln palnr al'tnr I50-of a sudden, after a couple of right combination and dealing plus days and nights in the months, 'Oh you look good,"' with injuries to all five starters dugout. Thn crnasns on his Torre recalls her saying. in the rotation, New York used fornhnad arn more nvident Heading into tho final week-28 pitchers and 51 players, 
'sup with Marian apparitions? Do I have to believe in them to be a good Catholic? 
At various points throughout the history of Christianity, those m heaven made rather miraculous appearances to those still on earth. One of the most and best-known accounts of an apparition occurs when Jesus appears to 
Paul (then Saul) on his journey to Damascus, which ellectivcly converts him Christianity (sec Acts 9: 1-1 0). Many times since then, Jesus, Mary, and vari­. saints have miraculously appeared to provide messages ofencouragement, 
or admonishment to believers in various parts of the world. Some 
the best known Christian shrines throughout the world mark the place where , as the Mother of Jesus, has reportedly appeared. The names of these are familiar to many: Lourdes, Fatima, Guadalupe, often appearing in this 
as the name of a church or chapel with an "Our Lady of..." in front of location. Despite the diverse epochs and locales where Mary has appeared, flicially-recognized apparitions have many characteristics in common. First, the apparitions ollen occur to people with minimal theological ucation, thus defusing skeptics' claims that the individuals made the stories 
on their own. For example, when Mary appeared at the grotto in Lourdes, ranee, in 1858, she did so to a young girl who was nearly tailing her catechism lass. When Bernadette reported to the local priest that the Lady appearing to 
had called herself the "Immaculate Conception," two things were made clear the priest: I. that the Lady appearing was indeed Mary, the Mother of God, 
nd 2. that Bernadette couldn't possibly have made up such a story, as that title only recently (in 1854) been dogmatically declared by the universal Church, Bernadette would have had no real access to or knowledge of such detailed 
I infonnation. A similar situation can likewise be seen with the shep­children of Fatima (Pot1ugal, 1917) or Juan Diego of Guadalupe (Tepeyae, ico, 1531 ). 
Secondly, the messages given by Mary have as central themes repen­
ce, prayer, and the return to a right relationship with God. These messages ways point one towards a deeper relationship with Jesus Christ, and never end Mary herself. Otten apparitions have occurred in those areas in moral or re­gious turmoil: places where wars were about to break out, where Communism 
threatening the fhith, where people were being led astray by vices of various 
s. Authentic messages never contradict revealed Christian truth, and follow­tlw advice given by Mary always leads the true believer to a deeper sense of and holiness. So do I have to believe in them'? Most often, apparitions arc examples f private revelations, where Mary appears and gives a message to one or a small of individuals. Unlike general revelation (ie, revelation found in Sacred cripturc and Tradition, which ended with the death of the last apostle), private · ions are only binding upon those who receive them. Thus, there is no 
ent that Catholics believe in any Marian apparitions or the messages 1rted therein. though many find great solace and a deeper peace in doing so. 
Send uestions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.26@nd.edu! 

both team rneords. 
Yet, in the dugout, Torre's behavior usually was tho same -either sitting stoically on the bench or, in ballparks wlwre that affords little view of tho field, loaning on a rail, with pitehing eoaeh Mel Stottlemyrn and bench coach Joe Girardi at his side. 
"Joe is the kind of pnrson that will not show his enw­tions," said center fielder Bernie Williams, the longest­tenured member of tho current Yankees at 15 years. "lie prob­ably could have benn tlw greatest poknr player alive if lw had chosm1 to do that. lin's thn epitome of that phrase: · Nn v 11r In t t h n m sIHl yo u sweat."' 
In tho inner sanctum of thn eluhhouse, though, he's nnarly matched Congress in numlwr of meetings, trying to spur players and stop thn slide, searehing for words to moti­vate a group of vntnran multi­millionairn stars. some of whom don't. like being told what to do. 
Phone 
1-7800 
Main Office 319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 114 CoMo 

Campus Ministry 
Web 

Mike Mokris' commitment to his 
faith took him to a different continent this summer. After working with high school students as a counselor for ND Vision this summer, Mike trav­eled with a group of25 NO students and campus ministers to World Youth Day in Cologne, Germany. Now that Mike is back in O'Neill Hall study­ing theology he still has a full plate of faith related activities. He is one ofO'Neill Hall's Liturgical Com­missioners and is also involved as a small group leader in the Fresh­man Peer Leaders Program. Mike is a sponsor in the RCIA program because he wants the opportunity to help people grow in their l~1ith in the same way other people helped him to grow along his faith journey. In the midst of all of the service that Mike is involved in, he still finds time to nurture his own spirituality hy regu­larly attending Eucharistic Adoration. Mike has done a great joh of mixing his service to others with time for personal spiritual growth. Thanks for 
lly "Living It!" Mike! 
Let us know who out there is making a difference! 
Send nominations to Brian Vassel at bvassel nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 29, 2005 
ference," Mattia said. 
players have had an effect on cooperation. 
So far everything is right on
Connelly. "This team has helped me to

Connelly 
Belles 
track for all of the golfer's
"Part of the reason that she is realize that my actions have an 

continued from page 28 
she played No. 4 singles and compiled a 22-13 record. She also teamed up with Brook Buck to post a 27-12 record at No. 2 doubles. The marketing major also boasts a 3.7 GPA. 
The senior's ability to combine her work ethic with light-heart­ed moments has made her well­liked among her teammates. More importantly, she has earned her teammates' respect. 
"She's funny and she keeps the team loose; she's got a great per­sonality," Louderback said. "She has also matured over four years and has developed into a great leader." 
Connelly was quick to point out that the responsibility for leading the Irish this season will fall on all five seniors on the team. 
'There are four other seniors with me, so it's not all on me," she said. 'Tm just going to look at what past seniors have done and learn from that. Everyone on the team is really close, so that makes it easier too." 
Louderback also felt that past a good leader is that she was a good follower," he said. "She's done everything we've ever asked of her since she's been here." 
Much of the focus will be put on Connelly to lead a talented Irish team to national prowess. In addition to her singles play, Connelly will team up with fel­low senior Kiki Stastny to anchor the doubles lineup at No. 2 posi­tion. Connelly's aggressive nature on the tennis court makes her a force in doubles, which Louderback thinks will be a strength of his team this sea­son. 
"She loves to come to the net," Louderback said. "She plays bet­ter when she comes forward, that's what makes her a very good doubles player. We have the potential to put three very good doubles teams on the court this year." 
Connelly has been a key con­tributor to the recent success of the women's tennis program, and her efforts have not gone unrewarded. She feels the team has taught her important life­long values about teamwork and effect on more than one person. I've also learned to communi­cate better by interacting with my teammates," she said. 
The last three years also afforded Connelly a unique opportunity to play with her sis­ter Sarah Jane, who graduated in the spring. Connelly and Louderback agreed that the two enjoyed the experience and that they grew closer working togeth­er. The Connellys, along with Thompson twins, Christian and Catrina, have helped to develop a family atmosphere that has brought the team close and allowed them to play together and rise in the rankings. 
This season as the Irish look to defend their Big East champi­onship and rise into the top 10 in the national rankings, Connelly knows she will play her best if she continues to let her person­ality come out in her tennis game. 
"I just like to have fun out there," she said. "I play my best when I'm loose and relaxed." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 


Sponsored by: CamJ1US Ministry 
Thursday, September 29th, 2005 330 Coleman-Morse 7:00-7:45 pm 
International Student Services and Activities Muslim Student Association Graduate Student Union 
CfVJ 



HAPPY 
2 0 T H 
BIRTHD 
A y JANA  I•  
Love, Dan,  Sharon,  Anne,  

continued from page 28 
that Mattia did, and recalled her first experience in college­level competition, as well as how much she has grown since. 
"She was rather quiet [as a freshman], but I could tell she was a good golfer," Hamilton said. "In her first tournament she was rather nervous ... and shot a score I'm sure she'd like to forget ... but she became more accustomed to playing college golf and has blossomed into probably the most consis­tent player that I've had for the school." 
And it is exactly that consis­tency that Mattia has used to lead the way for her team this year. She may not be the most vocal person on the team, but then golf was never designed to be a vocal sport. 
Mattia has done an outstand­ing job so far this year of help­ing to fill the big shoes left by last year's extremely successful senior class. At the beginning of the fall, Mattia spoke about her goals for her last season with the Belles. 
"Individually I just want to play really well. ..to make first team all-conference, to keep improving, and to score well. And I really want to win con-goals to be met this year. The Belles are in perfect position to take the conference title for a fourth year in a row, and Mattia has been consistently finishing rounds in the high 70s and low 80s. 
With her success at the con­ference competitions, she is likely to earn MIAA honors for her fourth and final year, and will look to lead her team to another NCAA appearance in the spring. 
And to be successful at that, Mattia will only need to do more of what she has been doing. She has been to three NCAA championships and is about to win her fourth MIAA title with the Belles, giving her enough experience in the pro­gram to have an impact on any team. 
"I think she shows people how to shoot low scores on the golf course," Hamilton said. "She knows she shouldn't get rattled. She 'II stay the course and keep working at it and good things will happen. 
"I expect her to keep doing what she's doing, playing solid­ly and being Megan. "She's got the experience ... and she never fails me." 
Contact Anna Fricano at africa I @saintmarys.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Hokies coach blames 
himself for last year 
Associated Press 
Blame it on the coach. 
That's essentially what Virginia Tech's Frank Beamer said Tuesday about the Hokies' last visit to Morgantown, which ended in a 28-7 loss to West Virginia. 
It seems Beamer started feel­ing real good about his team, which went into the rivalry game 6-0 and ranked No. 3 in the nation, the same ranking it has now. 
Like Saturday's game, that one came after the Hokies manhan­dled a good team -Syracuse in 2003, Georgia Tech last week­end -51-7 in a raucous Lane Stadium. 
"We had just played really well against Syracuse and (former West Virginia coach) Don Nehlen's a great friend," Beamer recalled, somewhat sheepishly. "We're talking before the game and I'm saying, 'Don, we're pretty good. We've got a good football team,' and Don's saying, 'Well, I'm going to tell you this place is ready for you.' 


"And I said, 'I know. We know exactly what we're getting in to, but we're a good football team,' and we were. But that good foot­ball team -we fumbled five times, we threw three intercep­tions and we had 13 penalties for 115 yards." 
The loss, and one two games later at Pittsburgh, ended the Hokies' championship hopes in their final season in the Big East. And even though Virginia Tech got some redemption last year, beating the No. 6 Mountaineers 19-13, a bitter taste lingers. 
For Beamer, the uncharacter­istic cockiness provided a lesson he won't forget. 

Thursday, September 29, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Phillies keep playoff hopes alive with win 
Philadelphia scores 16 runs in the win over New York, Trachsel 
Associated Press 
I'IIIIAI>ELI'IIIA-Chaso Utley hit a thrno-run homer and drove in five runs, and David Bell and Kenny Lofton each had four hits to give the Philadelphia Phillies' fading postsoason hopos a boost with a 16-6 win over the New York Mots on Wodnesday night. 
Thn Phillies avoided a three­game sweop and maintained their slim chance of catching Houston for the NL wild card. Tim Phillies began the day 2 1/2 games behind the Astros, who playNI in St. Louis and finish the season with four horne games against the Cubs. 
The Phillies arc off Thursday and elosc the season with a throe-game series in Washington. 
Jimmy Hollins extended his dub-record hitting streak to 33 games with a leadoll' single, and Shane Victorino and Pat Burrell naeh hornnred during a sevnn­run eighth inning. Utley drove in two rtlns in the eighth to give him 101 HBis, and the Phillies had a season-high 20 hits. 
Philadelphia desperately needed the victory after two erushing losses to the Mets. The bullpen squandered a three-run lead in the eighth inning on Monday, and Bell's critical basnrunning blunder in the eighth on Tuesday cost the Phillies two games they could have won. 
The Mets threatened again late in this one, also, this time when David Wright's two-run hom or in the seventh oil' reliever Hyan Madson pulled them to 9­6. 
Vicnntn Padilla (9-12) was solid until tiring in the seventh. allowing five runs and eight hits in 6 1/3 innings. lin allowed two solo homnrs to Marlon Anderson and one to Clill' Floyd. 
Staked to an early 2-1 lead, Mets starter Steve Trachsel (1-4) ran into trouble in the third. 
Chicago 3, Pittsburgh 2 
CHICAGO -With the rain coming down and the atmos­phere gloomy, the Cubs' disap­pointing season at Wrigley Field camn to an appropriately miser­able end. 
Basns loaded in the ninth and nobody out. or course, they did­n't scorn. 
"It was very symbolie. It seems likes we get in that situation and we don't get anything. It's very frustrating," manager Dusty Baker said after Wednesday's loss to the Pittsburgh Pirates. "We had a great chance to win that game." 
The Cubs figured to win a lot of games this season, especially at their cozy neighborhood ball park. Instead, baseball's lovable losers were 38-43 at Wrigley Field and must sweep a four­game series at Houston to finish at .500 overall. 
The announced attendance on an overcast day was 37,491, giv­ing the Cubs 3,099,992 for 80 home dates, the second-largest attendanee figure in club histo­ry. 
"We had a hard time holding up our end of the bargain," Baker said. 
Pirates reliever Salomon Torres pitched a scoreless eighth and gave up a single to 


CJs 
Matt Murton in the ninth. After Mike Gonzalez relieved, Jeromy Burnitz reaehed on seeond base­man J.J. Furmaniak's error when he eouldn't come up with his hard shot and Henry Blanco walked to load the bases with no outs. 
"I was having a little trouble getting the grip of the ball. The rosin was wet and my hands were wet, so I had to deal with that," Gonzalez said. "What I wanted to do was strike out the 
Saturday Oct. lS: 
NO Purdue Football Party Watch the Game on CJs' 92" Projection TV and Three 42" Plasma TVs $2.50 32 oz Specials 
PARTY STARTS AT KICKOFF 

lefties I had in front of me and get the other guy to ground out or pop up." 
Cincinnati 11, Milwaukee 4 
MILWAUKEE -Adam Dunn hit his 39th home run and Felipe Lopez drove in three runs to lead the Cincinnati Reds to a victory over Milwaukee on Wednesday night. denying Chris Capuano of the Brewers his 19th win. 
Capuano (18-11) pitched five innings, giving up six runs and eight hits. It was the seeond straight game he allowed six runs, although he was able to get the win over St. Louis on Sept. 23. He was trying to be the first to win 19 games since Teddy lliguera won 20 games in 1987. 
Aaron Harang (11-13) pitched 7 1/3 innings, giving up four runs and 14 hits. The 14 hits were a career-high with previ­ous high 11 in his last start against Philadelphia on Sept. 23. He was helped by three double plays. 
The loss pushed the Brewers back to the .500 mark (79-79) as they try to finish with a winning record for the first time since 1992, when they were still in the American League. 
Reds center fielder Wily Mo Pena hyperextended his lower back when he crashed into the wall diving for Bill Hall's line drive in the fourth. Pena hit his head and left shoulder and remained on the ground while left fielder Hyan Freel retrieved the ball. 
Freel threw to Lopez, who threw out Hall at home as he tried for an inside-the-park horne run. Pena remained on the ground for about 5 minutes while trainers worked on him. He stood up, then was taken ofl' the field on a cart. 
Colorado 10, Atlanta 5 
ATlANTA-On a night when a lot of rookies wore on display, Colorado first-year shortstop Clint Harmes had the biggest hit, driving in the go-ahoad run with a two-run double in tlw sixth inning and tho Hoekins beat the Atlanta Braves on Wednesday night. 
Fourtnm1 rookins startod for thn Braves and Hockios. indud­ing the starting pitchers for both. It was the most rookies to start a major league game since Sept. 24, 2003, when 14 started for Cleveland and Minnesota. 
Jeff Francis (14-12) gave up seven hits and four runs, three earned, in five innings for Colorado. 
Kyle Davies (7-5) gave up seven hits and five runs, two earned, in 5 2-3 innings for the Braves. 
Davies was a till-in starter for John Smoltz, who is resting his still' right shoulder the last week of the regular season. 

Thursday, September 29, 2005 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Rookie receiver part of Vikings' game plan 
Associated Press 
EDEN PHAIHIE, Minn. ­Minnesota Vikings coach Mike Tice has been trying to take it slow with Troy Williamson. 
This rookie isn't used to doing anything slow. 
Tice had wanted to be patient with Minnesota's top draft pick, hoping to keep the Handy Moss comparisons to a minimum. 
Heading into just his fourth game as a pro, Williamson's con­siderable skills -and an injury to No. 1 receiver Nate Burleson -have made the speedy new­comer a big part of the game plan heading into Sunday's game at Atlanta. 
"We know that he is a real burner and he plays the ball very well in the air," Tice said. "We are not holding anything back now due to Nate's injury. He is in the game." 
Williamson does everything fast. He learns fast, eats fast and talks fast. 
Oh yeah, he runs fast, too. Williamson ran in the low 4.3s in the 40-yard dash at the com­bine. 
"Any football player that has speed, that's a good thing," Williamson said. "You can learn everything else, but you can't teach speed. I'm glad that I was blessed with that asset. I can learn how to learn a route and catch a ball, but you can't learn how to run fast." 
Not surprisingly, it didn't take long for the seventh overall draft choice out of South Carolina to show what he can do. 
In the second quarter of last week's win over New Orleans, Williamson got behind man cov­erage and hauled in a 53-yard touchdown pass from Daunte Culpepper that propelled the Vikings (1-2) to victory. 
"It felt real good," Culpepper said. "Just putting it out there and letting him run and get it. That's what I like to do ... and we have been doing that for years in this offense. We have to keep that in the back of people's minds that we can hit you over the top if you are not careful." 
Williamson finished with three catches for 83 yards and let opposing defenses know that the Vikings' offense is still danger­ous, even without No. 84. 
The Vikings' offense has strug­gled mightily to find an identity without Moss, who was traded to the Raiders after seven record-setting seasons in Minnesota. The Vikings selected Williamson over USC receiver Mike Williams for his speed and game-breaking ability, two things that were in short supply when Moss was traded. 
Even though he is only a rook­ie, and light-years away from the ultra-talented Moss, oppos­ing coaches are already getting the message. 
"Especially after the play he made last week," Atlanta coach Jim Mora said. "You saw what happens if you let him off the line clean. He can just go.... The kid has got the ability to be spe­cial -really, really special." 

Manning looks to tie record 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton Manning has always been there when his teammates needed him. Whether it's on game days, in the locker room or inside the film room, the Indianapolis Colts have count­ed on the NFL's two-time MVP to be on the field. Anything less is unimaginable. 
In seven-plus seasons, Manning has never missed a game. On Sunday at Tennessee, Manning is expect­ed to make his 116th consecu­tive start, setting a franchise record and tying Bon Jaworski for the second­longest streak by an NFL quarterback. 
"I like to play, I like being in there," Manning said Wednesday. "It's more fun being in there than being on the sidelines." 
For Manning, the records have become almost as rou­tine as the starts. 
He and Marvin Harrison hooked up six times last Sunday to break the NFL record for most yards passing between a quarterback and receiver. Manning also became the second-fastest player to top 30,000 yards, taking 115 games -one more than Miami's Dan Marino. 
This week, Manning is ready to break the franchise mark for consecutive starts, set by former Colts center Ken Mendenhall (115). Next week, Manning should pass Jaworski, leaving only Brett Favre's record 208-game streak between Manning and another milestone. 

Like Favre, Manning has become the identity of his franchise because of his relia­bility. He helped turn Indianapolis from an NFL also-ran into a perennial Super Bowl contender, and without Manning, nobody knows where the Colts would be. 
Fortunately, they've never had to ponder the thought. 
"Next question," tight end Dallas Clark said when asked about the Colts' offense with­out Manning. "One-hundred sixteen? That's a lot of games. It shows you his consistency, his dependability. l-Ie's always there, always ready to play." 
Manning's track record sup­ports that contention. 
He earned the starting job at the University of Tennessee three games into the 1994 season and never gave ii up. When his college stats are added to those with the Colts, Manning's consecutive start streak hits 161. 
Twice it looked like Manning's streak might end, but he toughed it out. 
In August 2001, Manning was twisted awkwardly in a preseason game at Minnesota. A right knee sprain did the unthinkable, keeping Manning out of the Colts' meaningless preseason finale, the first pro game he'd ever missed. 
McNabb to play despite severe muscle strain 
Associated Press rest will not fix the problem his various injuries. McNabb abdomen or his groin." quarters. 
and McNabb can play if he can also is playing with soreness in McNabb hoped to delay sur­Against the Haiders, McNabb 
PHILADELPHIA -Donovan handle the pain. McNabb, who his chest and a shin contusion. gery. Burkholder said it usually rebounded from a slow first McNabb tossed touchdown practiced Wednesday, does not ''I'm ready to go," McNabb takes eight to 12 weeks to half and finished with 365 passes on a broken ankle and have to be sidelined now for said Wednesday. "I don't have recover from that type of sur­yards passing and two touch­played an NFC title game with the sports hernia. any concerns right now.... It's gery. downs while throwing a an agonizing rib injury. "We're hoping it's something just something you have to "If I can avoid it, I definitely career-high 52 passes. 
Now McNabb is taking his we'll be able 
deal with and realize some will avoid it," McNabb said. "If "If it ends up where he can't biggest health risk yet: playing to manage," days you'll feel great and some that's the case that I have to function, then we'll shut him with a severe abdominal strain Burkholder days you won't." have it, then it will happen." down," Reid said. that likely will need surgery said. "The McNabb was tested last week McNabb didn't know when While Reid said he would be and definitely will leave the plan with for the sports hernia, but he first hurt the area. He came smart with how he handles five-time Pro Bowl quarter­Donovan is to coach Andy Reid called the into training camp with sore­McNabb, he wouldn't rule out back in discomfort and pain all allow him to injury an abdominal strain ness in his abdomen. He another 50-attempt game if season. participate, after the Eagles' win over seemed to be fine until the sec­that's needed to win. 
"Fortunately for me, I continue to Oakland. McNabb went to ond game against San "If it means throwing 50 haven't got to the point where rehabilitate Boston on Tuesday for another Francisco, when the injury was times, then you throw 50 you just can't go," the Eagles' him and McNabb opinion and it was confirmed aggravated. times," Reid said. star said. "Once that happens, we're going he has a sports hernia. The injury hasn't affected McNabb has played through then I think the best way of to take it on a day-by-day, "His pain may get worse, it McNabb's performance too pain in the past. He broke his handling this is not being out game-by-game situation." may get better, the condition much. Against the 49ers, he ankle in the first quarter there. But I don't think that McNabb is expected to start won't," Burkholder said. "It's matched his career best with against Arizona in 2002, would ever happen." Sunday against Kansas City not like he's going to do a five TO passes and threw for stayed in and threw four 
Trainer Hick Burkholder said and is willing to play through career-ending problem to his 342 yards while playing three touchdowns. 

Thursday, September 29, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 29, 2005 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Nittany Lions hope to contain Gophers' Maroney 
Associated Press 

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -The plan to stop Minnesota running back Laurence Maroney sounds pretty simple: control the line of scrimmage and have tacklers swarm him when he gets the ball. 
Penn State linebacker Paul Posluszny knows the task will be much tougher than it sounds when Maroney and the 18th-ranked Gophers (4-0, 1-0 Big Ten) visit Happy Valley on Saturday. 
"l-Ie's a really strong downhill runner," said the square-jawed Posluszny, one of Penn State's defensive leaders. "We've got to get as many people to the football as we can." 
Maroney, a Heisman Trophy hopeful, leads Division I-A with 
174.5 rushing yards per game. "He doesn't really have much going against him," Posluszny said. 
Maroney is usually eluding and speeding away "from would-be tacklers. Last week. the 5-foot-11, 210-pound jun­ior pounded out a career-high 217 yards on 46 carries in the Golden Gophers' 42-35 double­overtime win over Purdue. The Boilermakers had the nation's top-ranked rushing defense coming into the contest. 
Like any good running back, Maroney is quick to credit an offensive line anchored by two four-year starters, Greg Eslinger at center and Mark Setterstrom at guard. The Gophers' athletic linemen run a zone blocking scheme to open up running lanes. 
"I need to be patient so I can give the line time to set up their blocks," Maroney said. "I think I've got enough quickness and speed to be patient and then when I see the hole, hit it fast and hard." 
Penn State, which is off to its best start since going 9-0 in 1999, hasn't faced a power­running attack yet this season. Nittany Lions coach Joe Paterno is quite impressed. 
"They are a very, very well­coached, dominant football team that's going to run it down your throat," Paterno said. 

His defense isn't too shabby either, allowing just 85 yards per game on the ground. Last week, though, Penn State gave up 198 rushing yards in its last-minute 34-29 win over Northwestern, including 112 yards and two touchdowns to freshman Tyrell Sutton. 
Penn State's defense is laden with experienced linemen, tal­ented linebackers and a quar­tet of senior starters in the sec­ondary that allow the front seven to take risks. 
"They've got a lot of guys that can do great things in the box, so its going to be a great battle in the trenches," Eslinger said. 
Posluszny, known as "Puz" or "Poz" to his teammates, plays with unsurpassed intensity on the field and displays quiet leadership off. He had 22 tack­les last week against the Wildcats -the most by a Penn State player since 1977 -and could be busy again against Minnesota. 
Posluszny likes to block out anything not related to football before a game and straps on headphones to listen to hard rock bands like Korn and Metallica. 

"He gets tuned in," defensive tackle Scott Paxson said. ''I'm glad he's playing on my team." 
Paxson said the defensive line must occupy the Minnesota linemen to "keep our lineback­ers free so that Puz can make tackles and do what he does best." 
Paterno remains concerned about fatigue on his defense, which was on the field for 95 plays last week. 

Alabama QB Croyle prepares to face Florida Saturday 
lines and passing yards, Shula not concerned with how many mate compliment to me is if
Tide, Gators enter 
likes his own QB. He cites yards I throw for." somebody says I'm a football 
SEC contest unbeaten Croyle's leadership on the side­Croyle's teammates praise his player. That just means you do lines and in the huddle, but he savvy and his arm strength. things the right way." also raves about his poise. Fullback Tim Castille said If that's not the ultimate com­
Associated Press 

"He's a guy that when he Croyle isn't likely to "do any­pliment, maybe this assessment comes off for timeouts, he's thing dumb with the football" in of Croyle from offensive coordi­
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. -Brodie very calm," said Shula, a for­tight situations. nator Dave Rader is: Croyle knows exactly how mer Tide quarterback known "He's a football player," "This is the kind of guy you Alabama quarterbacks are for keeping his emotions in Castille said. "That's the ulti-want in a big game." measured: By wins. Big ones. check. "When he tells you he 
It's how the senior hopes to sees things out there, he's very be remembered by Crimson accurate. He doesn't get rat­Tide fans, not for his injuries or tled.. for being the quarterback dur­"His pulse kind of slows a lit­ing the program's lean times. tle bit during the course of the Leading No. 15 Alabama to an game when a lot of guys' are upset of fifth-ranked Florida racing." Saturday would certainly leave Croyle needs just two touch­a mark with the fans. down passes to match the 
"That's all they care about," Tide's record of 3 5 held by said John Croyle, Brodie's Shula and Andrew Zow. He's father and a former Tide play­also within range of Zow's er. "That's the mark of a great mark for career passing yards quarterback. Bart Starr wasn't by season's end. remembered for his career at Croyle, who has won his last 
Alabama because he was there during tough times, kind of like Brodie's been. He's remem­bered for going to the NFL and winning." 
And Croyle? He could own all the big school passing records at Alabama (4-0, 2-0 Southeastern Conference) before he's done. But he's had the dual misfortunes of bad timing -guiding a team depleted by NCAA sanctions ­and injuries, including a torn knee ligament that sidelined him for the final nine games last season. 

He's not about to get into a discussion of what beating the Gators (4-0, 2-0) would mean personally or how it would affect his legacy. 
''I'm not going to win the game," Croyle said. "If anything I'm going to lose it. I don't get into all that. 'Hrodie beat Florida, the No. 5 team in the nation.' If we come out with a win Saturday, if anything it's going to be because of our defense." 
His coach has other ideas. "He definitely is the key for us," Mike Shula said. While Florida's Chris Leak grabs far more national head-
SIT Program in Uganda 


• 
InterestedinYlfrica? 

• 
Interestedin Clia[[enges ~ Issues of(])eve[oping Nations? 


CDon 't miss a stucfy a6roadopportunity tfirougfi tli.e Schoo{for lnternationa{'Training. 
Infonnation :.Meeting on: CJJiurstfay, Septem6er 29, 2005 CJ@om 125:J-fayes -:J-fea(y ./It 5:30pm 
Thursday, September 29, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Hinton 
continued from page 28 
narly and oftnn by scoring three goals in the opening stanza. Lauren Hinton continued her ofl"ensive flair and notched the first Belles goal with an assist from freshman Mandy Thomson. 
The women 
"Overall, we're 
to do some serious studying to

struck again fast with just enough 
and hard with pleased with our room to sparH 
make sure you can get ready 

Ashley Hinton below the cross­
to go in a week, in addition to
effort and 
all the wide-open passes they

striking the ball bar.
unselfishness." 
have."

unassistod past ThH t.wo-goal 
Adrian keeper second half was 
While parallels can be 
drawn between the hybrid

Heshia .Jamison Caryn Mackenzie outstanding con­
option running-passing attack

to put tlw Belles Belles coach sidering the con­
up 2-0. The final tally of the half was l>uBrnn's first on a laser to tho back of the net assisted by senior midfinlder Carrie Orr. 
l>uBrnn saved her finest for last when she tallied her sec­ond goal nearly midway through tlw second half, the lifth li1r the Belles. 
DuBrne broke down the right side of the field before she encountered an Adrian defimd­nr. Unfazed, DuBree took her head on and musdcd her way to the outside. Once in the open she eontrollnd, took lwr shot and found her mark. 
"Slw had a tremendous game," Bnllns coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "We've been playing her on the oul<>ide quitn a bit, but moved her up today just to get a dill'erent look for her." 
And did it ever work. DuBrne was in on the numerous Belles rallies dnnp into Adrian territo­ry and worked the ball WHII around the helpless defense. Normally, l>uBrne plays outside halfback, hut Mackenzie knew tlw flexibility of' her hard-nosnd playnr. 
"Siw did a great job lat atlackerl and we're very pl~laS~\d with l~er pi~~-an~l eflort. Mcu:kenzm scud. Ihats a good thing to know, that we can slide her in them and have 
Option
another forward to play with." The Belles scored their fourth 
continued from page 28 
goal 15 minutes into the second half on a shot from Thomson, assisted by Lauren llinton. 
couple the technique with a llinton broke through an 
high-flying passing game. Adrian midfielder on the right 
"This is a unique running side and passed up to 
game, it's not the same ras Thomson. Thomson turned and 
Navyl," Irish head coach bent the ball over 
Charlie Weis said. "Any team the keeper's head 
that runs the option, you have 
ditions faced. 
and the triple-threat wishbone 
With nearly 25 
offense, Purdue brings a dif­
minutes remaining in the game 
ferent llavor to the old forma­
the rain started to eome down 
tion. 
with force and turn the field 
"Purdue combines all of this 
into a slippery bog, but the 
spread offense with what 
amounts to be the old wish­
Belles continued to get it done 
and advance their season 
bone, though it doesn't resem­
along. 
ble anything like the wish­
"Loved our unselfishness," 
bone, because they've got peo­
Mackenzie said. "It was a good 
ple spread out," defensive 
team effort, got to see some 
backs coach Bill Lewis said. 
women get off the beneh that 
"But they've taken the quar­
haven't had some opportuni­
terback and put him back at a 
ties. Also, got to move some 
level of five years, and what 
pnople around and play them in 
he does is function up and 
a fHw different places, which 
was good." The Belles will next see action against at home against 
PGA 
Tri-State University on Saturday at noon, a s1:hool that is winless MIAA play thus far 

PGA tour returns to Greensboro 
this season. The Belles are excited to have a chance to play another game on their home 
Associated Press 
turf. Mackenzie summarized Adrian's game and the rest of 
GHEENSBORO, N.C. -The the week. 
PGA Tour is in Greensboro "Overall. we're very pleased 
again, continuing a storied his­with our ef1'ort and unselfish­
tory that dates back to Sam ness and am looking forward to 
Snead's victory in the inaugu­playing on Saturday at home," 
ral tournament in 1938. And she said. 
Hoy Williams' memory of this event goes back nearly as far. Contact Kyle Casilly at last 
"I can remember sitting in kcassily@nd.edu 
Spanish class, wondering why 


Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Fall Break Service Trip to the Gulf Coast-Oct. 16-0ct. 21 Sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education 
Information Session Thursday 7:00pm Recker's Hospitality Room 
down his line of scrimmage at the depth of five yards, doing what the conventional option quarterbacks do on the line of scrimmage. 
"They still have all the triple option reads with the pitch, and they've got all the triple option playaction passes off the option, and they do it from back where at any time they can snap the ball and be in the gun with potentially five receivers." 
Ultimately, more so than other offensive systems, Purdue's style of play caters to the exploitation of one-on-one match-ups within the defense. 
"It's basketball on grass when you think about," Minter said "It's about match-ups and playing in space and making the one on one play -that's their intention. It's also caused them to become a little more physical in that they are committing themselves to run the ball a little more, so it was an addition they probably thought they needed." 

For Weis, the incorporation of the option presents more challenges than those that naturally accompany defend­ing such a quick, multi­faceted style. 
"They have evolved that offense into such a more bal­anced offnnse than they have been in the past," Weis said. "It causes a whole buneh of problems. When a team is basically a throwing team first, if you can go in there and make sure that they don't run the ball on you, at least you'll have a fighting chance because you can play a men­tality where they are just going to throw it on every down. Now. you no longer can pereeive their offense as one­dimensional." 
Building on an already well­respected Tiller offense, the Boilermakers hope to confuse Notre Dame defenders with the inherent difficulty of the offense, an intention acknowl­edged by cornerback Mike Hichardson. 
"With them being able to spread out as much as they do, and then be able to incor­porate the option into it, it's going to be pretty complex to defend against," Hichardson said. "As a team, we'v11 boen preparing for it as much has possible." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

Arnold Palmer tried to hit it out of a creek on the 15th hole to make a double bogey and lose the tournament," said the University of North Carolina basketball coach, who played in the pro-am on Wednesday. "That's how far back I go." 
Now, the question is whether the tour's reorganized sehed­ule in 2007 has room for the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro. Nothing is final­ized, but the tour is moving toward a season that would end in thP. middle of September with the Tour Championship, preceded by three tournaments that would be part of a points-chase toward a $10 million prize for the winner. 
The tournament in Greensboro currently is part of the Fall Finish. a group of 11 events beginning Labor Day wHekend that eompiHtes the brutal 4 7 -week season. 
"The Fall Finish, it is impor­tant to all of us, there's no doubt about it," Sergio Garda said. "There's some really good events in the fall. I try to give it the best shot I ean." 
Garda is the top player from the World Golf Banking here this wnek, with Adam Seott the only other from the top 10. For Garda, h11 has a tough timP lil­ting tournaments in the UnitPd States into his busy itinerary, whieh ineludes many stops in Europe. 
This is the first timo lw's playnd in Grnensboro. 
"I like to play a bit mor11 in Europ11, bneausc I have some nice events around my country that I enjoy playing, that I ean get som11 friends to come and watch me, things like that," tho Spaniard said. "But I still try to eorne and play two. thrnn, four events in the fall." 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 29, 2005 
Chris Dunsheath. Ben Crouse broke the play up in the Missouri Valley Junior goalkeeper Chris Cahill "It was a great goal," Clark from behind, however. Bradley Conference. Clark had nothing notched his fifth shutout in the
Clark 
said. "It was a good free kick called for a penalty kick, but no but praise for Bradley after the last eight games Wednesday. played in by John call was made game. Cahill and the Irish defense
continued from page 28 
Stephens, and and the Irish "Bradely is a very strong, have combined to give Notre No. 15 Cincinnati Sunday, Notre Bright just met it. deared the ball. direct team," Clark said .. Dame a solid 0.78 goals against
"Bradley is a

Dame (6-3, 2-2 Big East) He just put a nice Clark was dis­"They're not a pretty team, but average for the season. rebounded with an impressive surface on it and strong, direct team. appointed in his they're an effective team. Notre Dame resumes Big East 1-0 win over the Bradley put it away." They're not a team's inability to "They have always given us play Saturday when the Irish 
·Braves. The Irish contin­close out the problems. You've got to com­host West Virginia, the only
pretty team, but

Notre Dame controlled the ued to set the pace game in the sec­pete when you play them and conference opponent Notre match for most of the night. In for much of the they're an effective ond half. they keep you very honest, so I Dame lost to in the 2004 regu­the first half, the Irish continu­second half, but team." "I didn't feel we think that's a tribute to them." lar season. The Irish, 2-2 in ally put pressure on the Bradley Bradley seemed to handled the end The Notre Dame victory was conference, are hoping to go on defense, out-shooting the come alive in the of the game as secured by yet another solid a run and finish atop the Big
Bobby Clark 

Braves 8-3 before the break. final six minutes. well as we could performance out of the defense, East standings for the second Sophomore forward Joe Lapira The Braves kept Irish coach have," the coach despite some significant injuries straight year. led the Notre Dame attack with the ball on Notre said. "We kept in the back. Senior tri-captain The victory over Bradley gives a game-high six shots, while Dame's side of the them in the game. Dale Rellas was sidelined, so Clark reasons to think optimisti­junior forward Justin McGeeney field and had several scoring We had several opportunities to Clark elected to move Dalby cally about this goal. and freshman forward Bright opportunities. kill the game. back from center midfield for "We were very good in the Dike each recorded three shots. With four minutes to go, "But having said that, it's the game. In addition, freshman first half;" Clark said. "There 
Dike put the Irish ahead early Bradley got what might have hard to criticize anyone on a defender Jack Traynor went were spells in the second ·half with the game's only goal. Just been its best opportunity to night like tonight." down with a foot injury in the when we were brilliant. It was a 
5:13 into the contest, senior tri­even the score. When Irish Notre Dame came away second half. Dalby, Traynor, very good win -a great win for captain John Stephens sent a defender Greg Dalby deflected a impressed by the Bradley team. Crouse, junior Ryan Miller, and us." free kick into the middle of the Braves shot, the ball ricocheted The Braves, who entered the freshman Matt Besler limited box where Dike was waiting to to a Bradley forward in front of game with a solid 6-2 record, Bradley to just ten shots for the Contact Kevin Brennan at send it past Bradley goalkeeper the Irish goal. Senior defender were the runner-up last season game. kbrenna4@nd.edu 
James R. Maughan
General Manager, Controls and Power Electronics GE Energy 
Friday, September 30, 2005 
12:50 to 1:40 p.m. 
DeBartolo Auditorium, Room 101 
Share your space, but live on your own. 


WAL*MART· 

Get everything for your dorm room at Walmart.com and still afford tuition. At.wAvs Low PRICEs 
fW• 
Walmart.com 


Thursday, September 29, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 


ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
~Vf:.f1.. MOTH..E 
\10\N '' FA<E60ot:..'' 1s A "e:.fa.r, Nov-e l-I~E '(OU.
1 
uFA<.e ~oo k" SoMEONE TO (IEf TH.t=.\ R CE.\..1... f\{ONE. NUMt)E.~ 
-n-v~t-~ ""E' ~.D 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BOINS 

I I I [] 
02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HIWSS 
[IJ 
WHE:N THE: KITc.HEN HE:L-P FE:L-L-I?E:HIND, THE: CHE:f WA?--­


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

I I r [J Print~here: 'I I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday's  Jumbles: Answer:  JULEP PATIO BUSHEL TOUCHY How she felt when her cobbler recipe won the  
blue ribbon-JUST "PEACHY"  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 39 Signs of fluster 66 Boohoos 
1 Costco quantity 40 Business letter 67 Exercise abbr.
5 Small bag 68 Snaps 41 Western treaty
9 Passover dinner 69 Book that 
grp. 
details the reign14 Jump over 

42 Modern storage of Cyrus 15 Big tournament 

unit, informally 16 _Gay 
43 See 32-Across 
DOWN(W.W. II plane) 45 A, in Acapulco 1 Parachute part 17 Part of a 46 Current source 2 Guy's girl 

hockey line 19 Field Marshal 48 'Vette design 3 Not just initial detail
Rommel 4 Branch of 49 Botanical philosophy

20 Resident beards 5 lunch21 Really enjoys 51 Hidden 6 Offer one's two22 Panacea 
conditions 
cents 

25 Normandy city 
55 Saturn satellite 
7 Neighbor of Ind. 

26 Drugs, briefly 
57" You Love" 
8 Coli. major

29 Wrestling hold (Nat King Cole 9 Dates hit)31 Fuss 10 Baritone in 61 Prefix with32 With 43-Across, Donizetti'sdollarswhat this puzzle 
"Lucia di is doing 62 Washington to 
Lammermoor" California

35 Tag issuer: 11 On the skids Abbr. 64 Blue stone 
12 Chosen ones 38 Long_ 65 Fleece 
13 Was a motor­mouth ANSWER TO PREVIOUS P"""UZr.Z::-TL-:-ET:"I 18 Lao-_ 
=+=+-::+::=-! 21 Big Ten team 
-:::c+-:-+.=+::-i 23 Massachusetts' Cape_ 
"1!1n••~m~tf~ 24 cubist Fernand

1-:-rl~-:::t-:::+~~. r-:+.=+::=-1 26 Hat -tipper's word 
27 Advantage 
28 Looking for trouble 30 1960's civil 1111-:-:-+-:-1-:-:-:i rights org. 
-:+~:*::'-! 32 Exploit 
=+=+-=+::=-! 33 Ultimatum ender 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

49 Bobber's quest audio equipment 63"_says ..." 
For answers, call 1-900--5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer • and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIHS DAY: Skye McCole Bartusiak, 13; Hilary Duff, 18; Gwyneth Paltrow, 33; Janeane Garofalo, 41 
Happy Birthday: Start making plans. This is a turning point --a time to look back and then forward. Don't rely on other people to make up your mind for you. That will not resolve anything or get you anywhere. The decisions you make this year will mold your future. Your numbers are 13, 19, 27, 33, 36, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Money deals arc in the works. Don't just think about doing things--take action." Work-related communication will bring clarity to future prospects. ***** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): A greater interest in your home and family may cause you some difficulties. A nice gesture could bring unwanted results. Consult with family members before making a decision. ** _ ­GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Talk to experienced people to help you make an important decision about your future and educational pursuits. Consult a travel agent to find out what destinations you can afford to book. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't pour money into your home or make real estate deals today. Refuse to give a loved one financial help. Love interests arc present, but don't let your heart rule your head. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Rely on your friends and relatives for sound advice. Emotional matters will escalate, causing you to make a mistake. Educate yourself before making a decision. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Everything will revolve around what you're going to do for a living and what it will take to make it happen. An experienced friend can help you get things right. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Lend a helping hand. The more you do, the more impressed everyone will be. Don't promise money as an alternative to doing hands-on work. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may be thinking about love_and romance, but things may backfire. Authoritative people can make your life difficult, so abide by the rules. ** , SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Partnerships can take a favorable turn. Do something special for someone who has stood by you in the past. Your gesture will ensure future help. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec.. 22-Jan. 19): Money matters won't be straightforward. Refuse joint financial deals. Go it alone or steer clear of making financial moves altogether. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): You may feel personally and emotionally frustrated. Be observant to get the right signals. The time to commit to someone or something is now. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Invest in your future. A business venture looks promising, but only if you do the legwork yourself. An older relative has the infonnation you require. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have great insight and the ability to get things done. You are emotionally sensitive, have creative talent and an impeccable memory. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfin"jun. eugenialast.comjiJr confide/Ilia/ consultations 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, September 29, 2005 
page 28 
SMC GOLF 
Maddia leads by example, on and off the links 
Megan Mattia, a senior on impact could hardly be more fall when Saint Mary's compet­freshman year, Mattia has beenBy ANNA FRICANO 
the nationally ranked Saint visible. ed in the Notre Dame awarded All-MIAA honors 
Sports Writer 
Mary's golf team, is definitely a During the fall 2005 season Invitational, Mattia ended with three times, and has finished in member of the second breed. alone, Mattia has finished first a top-20 finish out of a pool of the top 10 during every confer­
Some leaders get the job In her four years with the for Saint Mary's in six out of more than .80 Division-! ence championship. Head done by being vocal, and then Belles team, Mattia has been a six appearances, and took first golfers. coach Mark Hamilton came to there are those who simply do quiet presence both on and off place overall in the three con­But her success this season Saint Mary's in the same year their job well and leave an the golf course. ference jamborees in which the has hardly come as a surprise example for others to follow. But in terms of results, her team participated. Earlier this to the golf program. Since her see BELLES/page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Raining wins 

Notre Dame's victory in the poor weather over Bradley moves them to 6-3 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Bobby Clark feels like he's gone home. 
For the second straight game, the Notre Dame head coach watched his team battle 
through pouring rain and strong winds-con­ditions much more com­monly found on the pitch in Clark's native land. 


"It's like Clark playing back in Scotland," Clark said. "This is par for the course back in Scotland. That's two games in a row. We're getting used to it now." 
While the weather remained the same, the result improved for the Irish. After falling 2-1 to I 
Irish midfielder Matt Besler moves the ball upfield Wednesday against Bradley. Notre Dame see CLARK/page 26 won 1-0 on forward Bright Dike's goal, in a game that was played despite the pouring rain. 
SMC SoccER 
Belles roll, shut dovvn MIAAfoe 
DuBree scores twice in the strong victory 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
It was another game, another win and another step towards the forefront of the MIAA pack for the Belles soccer team after trouncing Adrian College 5-0 at home on Wednesday afternoon. 
The Belles were spearheaded by the sweet touch of midfielder turned all-out attacker Sarah DuBree, who struck twice in the Belles-dominated affair. A strong first half coupled with a second half mix of strong defensive play and explosive power vaulted Saint Mary's into third place in the MIAA conference, 4-2 in league play and 5-4 overall. 
Saint Mary's got on the board 
see HINTON/page 28 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Connelly loving the opportunity to play 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Lauren Connelly is living in the moment. 
The senior captain of the women's tennis team has a very simple goal for herself this sea­son-enjoy every minute. 
"I want to keep everyone motivated this year," Connelly said. "But this is my last season and my last year playing !com­petitive] tennis. I just want to have fun and appreciate every­thing that happens." 
Connelly's easygoing nature should not be interpreted as lacking effort or focus. 
In fact, it's quite the opposite. 
"She works hard," coach Jay Louderback said. "She is one of the players that comes in the most outside practice to work on her game." 
The results speak to her dedi­cation. Connelly has won more than 70 percent of her career doubles matches. Last season 
see CONNELLY/page 20 
fOOTBALL 

Irish aware of Purdue option 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Editor 
Navy isn't the only team on the Notre Dame schedule run­ning the option. 
With the graduation of 'one­time Heisman hopeful Kyle Orton, Purdue head coach Joe Tiller realized the offense needed another component, despite the talent of quarter­back Brandon Kirsch. 
Enter the option. 
Not only can the option give opposing defenses fits, but the Boilermakers also effectively 
_ see OPTION/page 25 



~CAA FOOTBAU. 
MCAA FOOTBAll 
SPORT BAll 

NCAA FOOTBAU. 
MlB 
MlB 
LLI 
c,., Penn State is looking 
Alabama quarterback 

Virginia Tech coach 
Joe Torre remains
Phillies 16 
White Sox 8 
z to shut down Minnesota 
understands the amount 

Frank Beamer blames 
calm despite the large
Mets 6 
Tigers 2 
running back Laurence 
of pressure that comes 

himself for last year's 
amount of pressure on
Philadelphia kept its 
Chicago extended its
~ 
Maroney on Saturday. 
along with playing 

loss to West Virginia. 
his shoulders. 
wild-card hopes alive, 
AL Central lead over
~ 
Florida on Saturday. 
and Jimmy Rollins 
the Indians to three
cc 
extended his hitting 
games with the win. 
!« streak to 33 games. page 24 
page 20
page 21 

page 19
page 24 
page 21 



