
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
Unable to escape New Orleans as llurricane Katrina bore down on the dty, two Saint Mary's professors 
remained strand­ed in their hotel on Canal Street Wednesday as water levels rose and looters ran­sacked nearby shops. 
Spanish profes­sor Jennifer 


Zachman and Chambers psychology pro­fessor Karen Chambers had spent the weekend in New Orleans at an Advanced Placement Testing con-
SMC professors still in New Orleans 
ference and were scheduled to fly out Sunday. 
With the storm approaching, their flight was canceled and the two women were forced to wait out Katrina and remain in their hotel ­the Sheraton New Orleans llotel at 
500 Canal Street -two blocks from the river and one block from the French Quarters. 
Communicating with the College in brief and sporadic e-mails since Monday, Zachman 


and Chambers Zachman said a hotel gener­ator provided occasional internet 
see HURRICANE/page 3 

Poorman discusses dorms, cable, wireless 
Student Affairs vice president outlines plans to begin construction in dorms soon 
By MADDIE HANNA As,uciatc News Editor 
Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman was the man with a plan at Wednesday's Senate meeting. 
Make that plans. 
Stepping up to tlw podium, a smiling Poorman took off his jack1~t and rolled up his sleeves. then proceeded to sharn his vision for both the short-and long-term future of tlw UniVPrsity. 
Po o r m a n s a i d t lw m o s t immediatl'. goals are getting 1:able telovision, improving cell phonn rnception and cre­ating an 1~xtensive wireless network. all in the residence hails. 
The push for cable televi­sion -which Poorman called "a great collaborative effort" between the Executive Vice President. Business Operations, the Office of Information Technology, Student Affairs and Student Government-will tentative­ly culminate next August. 
"All I can say is, at this point, there's been tremen­dous progress," Poorman said. "I can feel the elation waves already." 
Increasing eel! phone reception in the residence halls is another priority, Poorman said. lie cited recent surveys revealing that only 20-to-25 percent of stu­dents use thP-ir room phones, while a full 93-to-96 percent of students have cell phones. 
see SENATE/page 3 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Dishes no longer at Alu111ni 
Satellites result in dorm damage, costing Notre Dame thousands to fix 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
Alumni I I all dished out a ban on the installation of satnllitl' television in its dorm rooms fol­lowing an incident Associate Vice President for Hesidencl' Life William Kirk said cost the University "several thousand dollars." 
Andrew Breslin -the Alumni llall resident assistant where the problem arose -said the incident involved both the lire protection system and the satel­lite systems erected by the stu­dents in his section. 
"The exact cause has not been discerned directly, but tlw smoke alarm system in Alumni was damaged significantly," Breslin said. "The satellite hook-ups may have played a part in the damage as wires were run near current smoke alarm wires, [but[ this has not been ascertained." 
Breslin said the control boards connecting Alumni to the Notre Dame lirehousn also faced significant damage, how­ever the exact numerical value of this clamagn was not J'nleased to hall stall'. 
"Several thousand dollars worth of fire detection equip­ment within Alumni llall has suffered damage," Kirk said. "It may have occurred when stu­dents attempted to extend cables through the lengths of 
see SATELLITE/page 4 
Male minority at SMC excels 
Fdilor's note: This is the first in a three-part series exploring the role of men at Saint Mary's. 
By NICOLE ZOOK Assi.Hall! New.< Editor 
At lirst glance. Saint Mary's College seems to IH~ home to a wide range of people -women who have difl'erent backgrounds, racial heritage, intnrests and sexual orientation. But in all this seeming diversity, one population seems to be missing: men. 
Or are they? If one takes a closer look, one will lind a variety of men on the Saint Mary's campus -professors. administrators, boyfriends and even students -who arc all alike in one way. 
They arc a male minority in the unabashedly female-empowered atmosphere of the Midwest's top comprehensive college. 
"It was a little intimidating at first," Notre Dame senior Tony Sylvester said. "You walk to 
see MEN/page 4 


Michigan ticket lotto held this afternoon 
SUB hosts lottery for Sept. 10 football game in Ann Arbor 
By BRIDGET KEATING 
News Writer 
After today's football ticket lottery organized by the Student Union Board (SUB), the University of Michigan's Big House can expect approxi­mately 300 additional Notre Dame students for the Sept. 10 
showdown  between  the  
Fighting Irish  and  the  
Wolverines.  


SUB will be distributing tick­ets allocated by the Athletic Department and Student Activities Office through a well-organized and efficient lottery today. Students looking to obtain tickets may go to the club side of Legends between 12 and 5 p.m., said Jimmy Flaherty. SUB president. 
Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students arc allowed to bring up to six IDs each. One hundred and forty eight winning lottery numbers will be drawn. Each winner can choose to purchase one or two tickets at $59 nach. 
see LOTTERY/page 4 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Dear Diary 
I've kept a journal since I was in the fourth grade. Now that I am nearly twenty years old, the note­books fill up half a bookshelf in my bedroom. 
Looking back Mary Kate on them provides Malone a glimpse of what used to matter 
News
and what actually 
Production
does. And I real­
Editor
ize how quickly things can change. 

When I was ten, I wrote about how much fun my friends and I had on the school bus. I wrote about my favorite books and family vacations. And I spent many, many pages writ­ing about Matt Peppercorn -the 'hot' eighth-grader who I loved from afar -behind glasses, braces and a shy smile. 
In high school I wrote about new friends, old friends, lost friends. I wrote about getting my driver's license -and getting in my first car accident -and laughing with friends until I could hardly breathe. 
Senior year I thought a lot about the future. The thought of change was frightening. I filled pages with questions: What college should l go to? What if I miss home too much? How will I say goodbye? 

Despite the wobbly transition from home to college, Notre Dame was clearly the place for me. Within a few weeks I realized that beneath the Dome, things have a way of working themselves out for the best. 
I wrote that down, too. 

Last year's journal was filled with 'firsts': first day of classes, first SYR, first college final exam, first beer, first football game as a student, first time calling a one-room triple home. 
These days I write a lot about how the time is flying by. I look back at old entries and realize how quickly friends are made, seasons change, memories created before we even have time to realize it. 
Journals, at least mine, prove that the things that worry us most end up being just fine in the end. We might hit the bottom, but we bounce back, somehow. 
When Matt Peppercorn didn't notice me in fourth grade I thought the world was going to end. It did­n't. 

When I got a C in religion in sev­enth grade, I was sure I would never succeed in high school. I did. 
In hindsight, I realize how unim­portant so many things I spent pages worrying about really are. The stuff that keeps them captivat­ing is the big picture. It's just about a life slowly unfolding. 
Lots of the pages are uninterest­ing. But I wouldn't take back a sin­gle word. They teach me to cherish the special moments, to find a story worth telling about each day. 
But I'll stick with providing brief synopses of my journals. God forbid they ever get published. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 1, 2005 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DOES IT FEEL LIKE TO BE A GUY IN AN ALL GIRLS ENVIRONMENT? 








Nick Manieri  Bill Kiolbasa  Jim Yesnik  Henry Borne  Chris Tarnacki  Mike Ortiz  
senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  HC/SMC professor  junior O'Neil  junior O'Neil  
"It doesn't bother me. I don't even notice it. "  "It's a nice change of scenery.  "It's kind of hard finding a restroom. "  'They make you feel right at home. "  "Now I know what it feels like to be a minority."  "Welcome to my world."  


Saint Mary's students explore different activities at Activities Night In the new student center Wednesday night. 
OFFBEAT 
Briton finds venomous centipede In house 
LONDON -Aaron Balick expected to find a tiny mouse rustling behind the TV in his apartment. Instead, he found a ven­omous giant centipede that somehow hitched a ride from South America to Britain. 
"Thinking it was a mouse, I went to investigate the sound. The sound was com­ing from under some papers which I lifted, expecting to see the mouse scamper away," the 32-year-old psy­chotherapist said Wednesday. "Instead, when I lifted the papers, I saw this 
TODAY a: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
-I 


prehistoric looking animal skitter away behind a stack of books." 
He trapped the 9-inch­long creature between a stack of books and put it in a plastic container. 
The next day he took it to Britain's Natural History Museum, which identified the insect as a Scolopendra gigantea -the world's biggest species of centipede. 
Pollee find shooting is only a movie 
ST. PAUL-A gory scene staged for a low-budget hor­ror movie proved a little too realistic for police. When officers were called to the Dayton's Bluff neighborhood overlooking downtown Sunday night about a possi­ble shooting, they found a parked car with what looked like brain matter and blood on the front seat, dashboard and windows -but no vic­
tim. 

Police began knocking on doors and found Lance Hendrickson, the car's owner. He was OK. 
The scene had been staged by Hendrickson, 23, and his friends for their hor­ror movie, "Summer School," he told officers. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
~
~ 

c( (,) 

0 
HIGH 81 HIGH 58 HIGH 82 HIGH 79
.... 
LOW 69 LOW 50 LOW 56 LOW 55 IN BRIEF 
The Office of International Studies is joining forces with the International Student Services and Activities Office to launch the first annual Ten Thousand Villages Festival Sale to sell handicrafts from around the world on campus during International Education Week in November. Students interested in volunteering can attend the organizational meeting Thursday at 6 p.m. in the Coalition Lounge on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune. 
ND Cinema will host the criti­cally acclaimed documentary "Murderball," about quad rugby Team USA's bid in the 2004 Paralympics, in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center's Browning Cinema Friday and Saturday at 7 and 10 p.m. Tickets are $5 for faculty and staff and $3 for all students. 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer team will face off against Florida Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will play Texas at 5 p.m. on Saturday as part of the Shamrock Invitational in the Joyce Center. 
The Alumni Association will host a closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous Saturday at 9:30 a.m. in Room 124 of the Center for Social Concerns. 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer team will play Maryland Sunday at 1 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
~~ 
HIGH 81 HIGH 83 LOW 59 LOW 60 
Atlanta 89 I 67 Boston 83 I 67 Chicago 83 I 59 Denver 82 I 56 Houston 100 I 73 Los Angeles 81 I 61 Minneapolis 78 1 54 New York 89 I 70 Philadelphia 89 I 66 Phoenix 108 I 83 Seattle 74 I 57 St. Louis 85 I 61 Tampa 89 I 78 Washington 88 169 
Thursday, September 1, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
Tho third tochnological goal, the win~less network in the rosidence halls, should be completod this spring along with tho cell phone recep­tion, Poorman said. 
But he was quick to point out the downside of the new dnvolopments -construction in tho residence halls. 
"We might all brace our­selves for a little inconven­ience," Poorman said. 
In addition to these three concrete projects, Poorman discussed several larg­
"We've gone from the
er goals orig­Family Halls, inating from big strategic plan to the designed to Student increase fac­
Future ofResidence Life 
Affairs, most ulty-student
Plan to the Residence 
currently in relationships tho research Master Plan." outside of stage. the class­
With plans room.
Ann Firth

to build four In addi­
n 0 w d0 r m s associate vice president for tion, task on t hll hor i-student affairs forces have 
strategic plan to the Future of Residence Life Plan to the Hesidence Master Plan," Firth said. 
While no date has been assigned for the beginning of construction on the new dorms, Firth said the University is now dealing 
· with "the nuts and bolts" of the project. Poorman said construction was contingent on how long it takes to raise the money through a capital campaign. Another long-term goal is Hesidential Scholars, which Poorman described as a "real simple, low maintenance" pilot program being tested in St. Edward's and Welsh 
zon, the qual­ity of rosi­dence life is one theme Student Affairs is exploring, Poorman said. A 15-month study using surveys and focus groups was conducted along with a two-year study conducted by an outside con­sultant. 
i\ssoeiate Vice President for Student Affairs Ann Firth said the University had hired an architect from St. Louis who specializes in campus projects to take a look at Notre Dame's situation. 
"We've gone from the big 
been estab­
lished to examine graduate and pro­fessional student needs, the spiritual lives and needs of students, residence hall staff training and recruitment, employer perspectives of Notre Dame students and graduates and student gam­bling. 
"Gambling has become a huge issue on college cam­puses," Poorman said. "We're beginning to see the hints of gambling problems. And since I teach undergrad­uates,· I think it's safe to say there's probably a significant gender divide on this issue." 
While he did not classify Notre Dame students' gam­bling habits as a crisis, Poorman said he hoped to follow the lead of other uni­versities and "try to be slightly ahead of the issue." 
The Stepan Center is yet another aspect of Poorman's plan. lie said he wants to see the easily recognizable build­ing replaced with "a more serviceable facility." Soon, he expects to have "a very pre­liminary rendering of what the building might look like." 
Poorman was also quick to praise Student Government representatives, especially student body president Dave Baron and vice president Lizzi Shappell, for their ongoing dedication and hard work on initiatives like the Gender Relations Center, the TRANSPO deal, the NDBay acquisition and the upcoming inaugurat}.on for University President Father John Jenkins. 
"These people have not been sleeping, I want you to know," Poorman said. "In seven years, no administra­tion has hit the ground run­ning as well as David and Lizzi." 
And the University is run­ning right alongside them. When Poorman came to the end of his outline, he seemed to be searching for some­thing more to add. 
"I guess other than that, there's not much going on," he said, laughing. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Hurricane 
continued from page 1 
access and some light. 

"All the windows [of the hotel] are gone, but we are in the inner core and will probably be OK but wet in the end," the pair wrote Monday. "The building shook a few times when it was hit by something, but EMT have inspected and feel we are safe here still, or at least safer." 
Later Monday, after the eye of the storm had passed, Zachman and Chambers wrote again to assure colleagues of their safety and expressed gratitude. 
"There is major debris in the street, lots of windows broken, trees uprooted, a few crushed cars that we can see," they wrote. 
The hotel staff had been "mag­ical" toward its stranded guests, the women said, and had pro­vided food. 
Saint Mary's Italian depart­ment chair Nancy D'Antuono, who spoke with Zachman by phone at 5 p.m. Tuesday, said the two women had been instructed to fill their bathtub with water before the storm hit and to use it for hygienic pur­poses. 
"They are hardly in the most elegant circumstances," D'Antuono said. "They were in good spirits, they were just tired of the heat, the worry, and the inconvenience." 
They hoped to be able to leave the city soon either by plane or bus by Wednesday morning, the women said. 
The situation grew increasing­ly dire, however, when two lev­ees, designed to protect the New Orleans from ocean swells, gave way Tuesday flooding 80 percent of the city. 
Images show11d hurrieane vic­tims wading through ehest-deep water on the famed Canal Street. Aggressive looters broke windows and stole ofT with goods, often in plain sight of police oflices and state guards­men, the Associated Press reported. 
Early Wednesday, Zachman and Chambers wrote and said they were still unable to leave the hotel. 
"The llood waters keep rising, so things aren't all that great," they wrote. "We probably won't get out for a few more days. There was one road out last night, but it may or may not be there this morning. Yesterday we almost got out, but the buses were flooded. It is hot and smelly but we arc still eating." 
In their last communication with the College Wednesday afternoon, they said they did not anticipate being able to leave any time soon. 
"It is looking like it will be a long time [before we can leave!," they wrote. "The water contin­ues to rise and we are pretty low on the evacuation list." 
Joe Miller of the psychology department said students in Chambers' class were being instructed to keep up with the work assigned to the syllabus. If she has not returned by Monday, he said, other professors will cover her classes. 
Various professors were filling in for Zachman until she returned, Spanish professor Isis Quinteros said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 



acous •1c 
co e 
ll----~----..·as~........-.-.....II&II..........IIF?=._..........r~··········h-·----------~-·--------------11 
live @ Legends 
tonight 
9.1 .05 
Performers include: 

* 
John Conroy (10-1 0:20pm) 

* 
Michael Barrett ( 10:25-1 0:45) 

* 
Andrew Stapleton 




and John Cogill ( 10:50-11:1 0) *Sean McCarthy ( 11:15-11 :35) 
* Robbie Hazen (11 :40-12:00) 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 1, 2005 
discretion." But despite the apparent

Satellite 

advantages of DirecTV and other satellite television systems, 
continued from page 1 

some students have decided the several hallways." better picture quality and wide­But although satellite televi­range of programming do not 
sion has been outlawed in Alumni, DirecTV dish­es flourish elsewhere on campus namely in men's resi­dence halls. 
"As long as the installa­tion of dishes can be accom­plished safely and in no way damages University property or obstructs 

"As long as the installa­tion ofdishes can be accomplished safely and in no way damages University property or obstructs University activity, they have generally been permitted. ,, 
William Kirk associate vice president for residence life 
University activity, they have out the year," O'Grady said. generally been permitted," Kirk "The poor guy who put it on his said. credit card was always politely 
Farley senior Caitlin Smith reminding us for money, and the recently purchased satellite always a DirecTV package seemed to be out
"We wanted to get
with her three of reception half 
a satellite because 
roommates. Smith the time we want­said the satellite ofthe poor ed to watch it. system is the first One time we just
reception in our
she has seen in the ,, wanted to watch women's dorm room. an ND [football] 
during her four away game and years of living Caitlin Smith ended up missing there. the first quarter
Farley senior 
"I think that because we had to maybe males point the sate!­watch more television -espe­lite." cially sports on channels such as While students like O'Grady ESPN -than girls, so they're criticize the screen image more willing to get a satellite," appearance of satellite systems, 
she said. 
Smith said she and her roommates found that most all satellite sys­tems on campus belong to men's dorms and that people have been "sur­prised" they have made the effort to have Kirk is con­cerned the accu­

"Personally, I believe 
mulation of dish­that the dishes are es has taken away from Notre
unsightly and detract 
Dame's aesthetic
from the beauty of 
quality. 
campus. "Personally, I believe that the dishes are
William Kirk 
unsightly and
associate vice president 
detract from the for residence life beauty of cam­pus," Kirk said. 
one in their Farley Hall room. ''I'm hopeful that 
"We wanted to get a satellite eventually there will be a solu­because of the poor reception in tion that allows for their our room -we couldn't even removal." 
get local channels," Smith said. "We also wanted to be able to Contact Katie Perry at watch CNN and MTV at our own kperry5@nd.edu ,. 

Lottery 
continued from page 1 

Winning numbers will be list­ed in The Observer tomorrow and posted outside of the SUB office at 201 LaFortune by 8 a.m. 
"The lottery seems simple 
enough. I've never been to an away game as a student and am eager to see this rival­ry in action," said sopho­more Matt Casanova, who hopes to get tickets for the game. 
Flaherty assures an efficient and well-run dis-

said. 
Flaherty said he has learned from past efforts, and his staff is ready for a smooth-running afternoon at Legends. 
Sophomore Kim Crehan is excited to see the Irish play in Ann Arbor. 
"It will be great to be a guest in a different football atmos­phere and part of an outnum­
"This is a wonderful opportunity for SUB to provide a great service to the student body, while at the same time promoting this year,s promising football season. ,, 
Jimmy Flaherty president, SUB 
outweigh the hassle. 
T o m O'Grady, a jun­ior from Dillon Hall, said last year he split the cost of a satellite televi­sion system with approxi­mately ten other people from his dorm. 
"I decided not to do it this year because it was such a pain to main­tain through­
bered cheer­ing section, especially after last year's excit­ing victory," she said. 
The last time the two teams met, the game ended with a huge home opener victo­ry and a rushing of the Notre Dame field. 
Men 
continued from page 1 
campus and you are maybe one of only a handful of guys walk­ing around with a campus full of girls. You get stares, and I'm sure most of the girls are won­dering why I'm there." 
Sylvester, a history major at Notre Dame, is also a social studies secondary education student at Saint Mary's. He decided to enroll in classes at the College when he realized Notre Dame does not have an education certification program which would allow him to become a high school teacher when he graduates. 
Sylvester has taken six cours­es at Saint Mary's, and said after taking so many he feels more "comfortable" in the all­female campus environment, 
"I definitely feel outnum­bered, but I wouldn't say over­whelmed. Most, if not all of the women that I've met [at Saint Mary's] have been easy to talk to and get along with. I proba­bly get stared at a lot walking around campus, but not so much in class," he said. 
Senior Shane Larson, who has taken anatomy and is cur­rently enrolled in a biochem­istry course at the College, also said that while men "get used to" the shock of all-women's classes, being a man in all­female science classes does not usually present any hardship. 
"There aren't any real chal­lenges, except that you will be noticed by all the students and the professor at all times, so you have to prepare yourself and have pride in your work always," he said. 
Larson said he chose to take classes at Saint Mary's because the College has "a good anato­my program and labs that help teach the material well." He also said he gets mixed reac­tions to his taking classes at the school, including misconcep­tions about the curriculum at Saint Mary's. 

"A lot of people think its funny [that I'm taking classes at Saint Mary's] and many ND people think that the classes at SMC are much easier than ones offered at Notre Dame," he said. "I feel that the academics at SMC are the same as that of Notre Dame." 
Larson also said the faculty plays a key role in his class­room experience at Saint Mary's. 
"I like the faculty at SMC, they are very approachable. intelli­gent people andterrific teach­ers. They care about you learn­ing," he said. "Teachers [at Saint Mary's] want you to retain the material after the class is over a bit more, so they often spend more time on the concep­tual aspects of the class." 
Senior elementary education major Eric West -who will be the first male to graduate from the program in the past eight years -said the classes at Saint Mary's have "a completely different format" than those at Notre Dame. 
"There is a lot more group work with projects and presen­tations, especially with regards to education," he said. 
West said he likes the class­room dynamic at Saint Mary's, and not just because he is sur­rounded by women. 

"I like the smaller, more per­sonable classes," he said. "It works well, especially for teach­ing education classes. The pro­fessors really get to know each of the students and get involved not only in classwork, but also their lives during the time in college." 
However, West also said he feels that by not being able to study education in a mixed-gen­der environment, he may be missing elements of the class­rooms he will be teaching in. 
"I feel like I miss out on some of the more male aspects of teaching, especially in today's society where you hear about allegations from students about teacher misconduct," he said. "I think males in education are held to somewhat of a higher standard. This aspect is missing from a lot of classes -but it can be picked up in field work and by asking questions." 
All three men said they would recommend taking a class at Saint Mary's. 
"[Taking classes at Saint Mary's is a] great opportunity to grow as an individual and gain confidence. They have a lot of classes that we, at Notre Dame, don't have or offer," Larson said. "I have a higher opinion of SMC having taken a class there twice now. I never really saw the campus before and now realize how nice it is." 
West said it was the people at Saint Mary's that made his experience at the school worth recommending to others. 
''I've met my 2 best friends at SMC and have had countless experiences that I will remem­ber for the rest of my life, as well as be able to take into the classroom when I become a teacher," he said. 
Sylvester said he believes not just men, but women from Notre Dame should take a class at Saint Mary's. 
"I think the opportunity to go over to SMC is very unique and more people should be informed of the program. I would recommend taking class­es over at SMC to anyone, both guys and girls from ND," he said. "It not only offers an opportunity to maybe broaden your horizons and outlook, but if you are passionate about something like education, or dance, or something else, you can use SMC as a resource." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 


Castl~~oiot 
APARTIVIENTS 
18011 Cleveland R9ad • South Bend:r Indiana 46637 
Corner orClevetand and Ironwood Road 
Phone (574) 272-8110 • Toll Free (888) 642-6110 www.cppj.coro 
• 
BtL.t"liness Center 

• 
rree Tanning Bed 



• 
Racquer Ball ... 

• 
Indoor/Outdoor Tennis & Basketball 

• 
Stvlmming 

• 
Exercise Room 

• 
Whirlpool & Sauna 



• Shorr-Term Leasing Options 


• l-2 BE.DROOMS/Z BEDR.OO:MS WJTH LOFT & DENS 
• 
MONTHLY EXECUTIVE SUITES 



tribution process. 

"This is a wonderful oppor­tunity for SUB to provide a great service to the student body, while at the same time promoting this year's promis­ing football season," Flaherty 
For those not able to get tickets, ABC will broadcast the game at 12 p.m. on Saturday, Sept. 10. 
Contact Bridget Keating at bkeating@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 1, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVHt'S WJRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Disease killing South Asian children 
IIANOI -A .Japanese encephalitis out­hn~ak that has killed hundreds of ehildrnn in northnrn India and Nepal in recent weeks has no eurn or dl'ectivn trnatment. ll is easily prnvnnlahle, but the 1w•~essary vaccines are simply not available to millions. 
Tho disease has ovnrwhnlmod hospitals in Uttar Pradesh. India's most populous stale, since an outbreak began there last month. Morn than 400 have died and about 1,100 others remain hospitalized. Blinding lwadadws, seizun~s. nausea and high f1wnr usually preeede death. 
Last week in tho staln eapital ol' Lucknow, a rkkshaw driver's 6-year-old son died in his f'ath•~r·s arms. gasping for breath outside a governnwnt hospital. Thern were no bods and not enough doctors to help in the over­(Towded facility. 
North Korea pushes propaganda 
SI·:OUL, South Koma-North Koreans are llor.king to tlwir •·.apital to view performances of' a mass gymnastks nvnnt that is tho high­light of govnrnnwnt propaganda nf'f'orts aimed at inspiring support for tho Kim dynasty. 
Somn :wo.OOO pnopln have traveled on spe­cial trains and buses to watch what the North calls a "mass game" that opened Aug. 
I:i on tlw 60th anniversary of Korea's libera­tion from .Japan's colonial rule. 
With I00,000 pnrl'ornwrs, the event fea­tures synchronized aerobatics against the backdrop of an entire sich~ of' a stadium being usml as a mosaic whore children turn col­on~d pages in books 'to form giant pietures and animation. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush warns recovery could take years 
WASIIINGTON -President Bush plodgod Wndnesday to do "all in our power" to save livns and provido sustonance to uncounted victims of' llurricano Katrina but cautionod that roeovery of tho Gull' Coast will take 
y1~ars. 
"Wn'n~ dealing with one of the worst nat­ural disasters in our nation's history," he said at tho Whitn Ilouse aftnr breaking ofT his Texas vacation and viewing the devas­tation from Air Foree One. 
With a vast federal relief effort grinding into operation -from food and shelter to spraying for diseas1~-carrying mosquitoos -Bush cautioned that the effects of the storm will be l'olt far beyond Louisiana, Mississippi. Alabama and Florida. 
FDA chief steps down in protest 
WASHINGTON -The highly regarded wonwn's lwalth chief at the Food and Drug Administration resigned Wmlnesday in protest of lwr agency's refusal to allow over-the-eount­or salos of' emergency contraception. 
Assistant Commissioner Susan Wood dmrgnd that FDA's leader overruled his own scientists' determination that the morning­aft•~r pill eould safely be sold without a pre­scription. and stunnnd his employees last week by instead postponing indefinitely a decision on whethor to h~t that happen. 
'"l'lwre's fairly widespread concern about FDA's ermlibility" among agency veterans as a result. Wood told The Associated Press hours after submitting hor resignation Wednosday. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Remains could be Purdue student 
WEST lAFAYETTE, Ind.-Body parl'> found in the trunk of' a car in Hosemont, Ill., might be thoso of' a missing Purdue University graduate stud•mt, police said, and authorities in China worn dolaining his wif(~. 
lnvostigators suspoet the dismembered body bPiongs to Lei I lei, 28, a Chinese national from Shanghai who was studying mechanical engi­nooring at Purdue. 
Police in Hosemont, Ill., found the body Tuesday in garbage bags in the trunk ol' a ear in a municipal parking garage after a man rnportnd a foul odor eoming from the vehicle. 

Ne-w Orleans tnayor: thousands dead 
Engineers continue to repair levees; evacuees leave Superdome for Houston 
Associated Press 
NEW OHLEANS llurrkane Katrina probably killed thousands Qf people in New Orleans, the mayor said Wodnesday -an esti­mate that. if aecurate, would make the storm the nation's deadliest natural disastnr since at least the 1906 San Francisco earth­quake. 
"We know there is a sig­nificant number of dead bodies in the water," and other people dead in attics, Mayor Hay Nagin said. Asked how many, he said: "Minimum, hundreds. Most likely, thousands." 
The f'rightening estimate came as Army engineers struggled to plug New Orleans' breached levees with giant sandbags and concrete barriers, and authorities drew up plans to dear out the tens of thou­sands ol' people left in the Big Easy and practically abandon the flooded-out city. Many of the evacuees -inducting thousands now staying in the Superdome ­will be moved to the Astrodome in Houston, 350 miles away. 
There will be a "total evacuation of the city. We have to. The city will not be functional for two or three water-reseue teams. I!' the mayor's estimate been rescued from roof's and months," Nagin said. And he Ameriean Hed Cross work­holds true, it would makt~ atties, it could be assumed said people will not be ers from aeross the eountry Katrina the nation's dead­that thorn were lots of oth­allowed back into their converged on the devastated liest hurricane since 1900, ers who were not saved. homes for at least a month region in the agency's when a storm in Galveston, "You have a limited num­or two. biggest-ever relief opera­Texas, killed between 6,000 ber of resources, for an 
Nagin estimated 50,000 to tion. and 12,000 people. The unknown number of evac­100,000 people remained in Katrina slammed into the death toll in the San uees. It's aln~ady been sev­New Orleans, a city of near­Gulf Coast on Monday just Francisco earthquake and eral days. You've had ly half a million. He said east of New Orleans with the resulting fire has been reports thorn are casualties. 14,000 to 15,000 a day howling, 145-mile wind. The put at anywhere from about You all can do the math," he could be evacuated. death toll has reached at 500 to 6,000. said. 
The Pentagon, meanwhile, least 110 in Mississippi State officials said the A full day after the Big hogan mounting one of the alone. But the full magni­mayor's figure seemed plau­Easy thought it had escaped largest search-and-rescue tude of the disaster had sible. Katrina's full fury, two lev­operations in U.S. history, been unclear for days; Lt. Kevin Cowan of' the ees broke and spilled water sending four Navy ships Louisiana has been putting state Office of Emergency into the streets Tuflsday, with drinking water and aside the eounting of the Preparedness said there is swamping an estimated SO other emergency supplies, dead to concentrate on res­no way to determine with percent of the bowl-shaped, along with the hospital ship cuing the living, many of any accuracy how many below-sea-level city and USNS Comfort, search heli­whom were trapped on died. But he noted that since inundating miles and miles copters and elite SEAL rooftops and in attics. thousands of people had of homes. 

IRAQ 
Hundreds of Shiite pilgrims die in stampede 
bank. I saw women, children and old to civilians for months to prevent
Associated Press men falling after me into the water." movement by extremists between the BAGHDAD -Panicked by rumors The crowd was on edge because of Shiite neighborhood of Kazimiyah of a suie.ide bomber, thousands of the 11 0-degree heat, a mortar bar­and the Sunni district ol' Azamiyah Shiite pilgrims broke into a stampede rage near the Shiite shrine where across tlw river. on a bridge during a religious proces­they were headed and the ever-pres­"This tragedy was the direct rnsult sion Wednesday, crushing one anoth­ent fear of suicide bombers, etehed of terrorism; hundreds of innocent er or plunging 30 feet into the muddy into memories after repeated attacks people, mostly women and childrnn. Tigris river. About 800 died, mostly against large religious gatherings. have died because of' the fear and women and children, ollieials said. Seven people died in the mortar bar­panie that terrorists arn sowing in Hundreds of lost sandals littered rage three hours before the stam­Iraq," NATO Secretary-General Jaap the two-lane bridge while children pede, the U.S. military said. de lloop Schefl'er said in a statement. floundered in the waters below, try­Police later said they found no Defense Minister Saadoun al­ing to reach dry land. The tragedy explosives at the bridge -either on Dulaimi, a Sunni, said three suicide was the single biggest loss of life any individual or in any ears parked bombers were stopped Wednesday known in Iraq since the March 2003 nearby. Instead, poor crowd control some distance from the shrine, but U.S.-led invasion. and the climate of fear in Iraq after "blew themselves up before reaehing "We heard that a suicide attacker years of bullets, bombings and blood­their destination." was among the crowd," said Fadhel shed appeared largely to have caused State Department spokesman Sean Ali. 28, barefoot and soaking wet on the horrific carnage. McCormack said in Washington that the riverbank. "Everybody was Marehers jammed up at a check­he was not aware of any evidence yelling, so I jumped from the bridge point at the western edge of the that the stampede on tho bridge was into the river, swam and reached the Imams bridge, which has been dosed caused by a suicide bombing. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September I, 2005 



Health threats grow for New Orleans hurricane victims 
Associated Press 

As a public health catastrophe unfolded Wednesday in New Orleans, hospitals in the Crescent City sank further into disaster, airlifting babies without their parents to other states and strug­gling with more sick people appearing at their doors. 
Dangerous, unsanitary condi­tions spread across the city, much of which now sits in a murky stew of germs. 
The federaJ government declared a public health emer­gency for the Gulf Coast region, promising 40 medical centers with up to 10,000 beds and thou­sands of doctors and nurses for the hurricane-ravaged area. 
In a stunning example of how 

roof of the parking garage to get the babies because water cov­ered the helipad at the hospital, one of the few in the area that had been operating almost nor­mally. 
"We're getting kind of at the end of our rope," with a skeleton staff of doctors and nurses who have been on duty nonstop since Sunday, Voss said. 
Officials were trying to evacu­ate 10,000 people -patients, staff and refugees -out of nine hospitals battling floodwaters or using generators running low on fuel. About 300 people were stranded on the roof of one two­story hospital in the New Orleans suburb of Chalmette. · 
Yet even as they tried to evacu­
ate, many hospi­
tals faced an 
desperate the sit­ "We're ready for  onslaught of new  
uation has become, 25 babies who had  patients and we can't get them. We  patients -people with injuries and infections caused  
been  in  a  just can't get them  by the storm, peo­ 
makeshift neona­ out.,,  ple plucked from  
tal intensive care  rooftops who are  
unit  at  New  dehydrated, dialy­ 
Orleans' Ochsner  Knox Andress  sis  and  cancer  
Clinic were air­ emergency room nurse  patients in need of  

lifted Wednesday to hospitals in Houston, Baton Rouge, La., and Birmingham, Ala. Many were hooked up to battery-operated breathing machines keeping them alive. 
Their parents had been forced to evacuate and leave the infants behind; by late in the day, most if not all had been contacted and told where their babies were being taken, said hospital spokeswoman Katherine Voss. 
"We actually encouraged them to leave. It would just be more people to evacuate if there was a problem," said Dr. Vince Adolph, a pediatric surgeon. 
Helicopters had to land on the 
their regular chemotherapy or radiation treatments. 
"We have thousands of people who are getting ill ... our hospi­tals need to be prepared to take care of the incoming sick," said Coletta Barrett of the Louisiana Hospital Association. 
Only about 150 patients were able to be evacuated Wednesday from all nine New Orleans hospi­tals, said Knox Andress, an emergency room nurse in Shreveport, La. He is regional coordinator for a federal emer­gency preparedness grant cover­ing the state and is involved in helping place evacuees in other hospitals. 
"We're ready for patients and we can't get them. We just can't get them out," he said. 
The government said dozens of medical disaster teams from nearby states were moving into hard-hit areas. 
"We've identified 2,600 beds in hospitals in the 12-state area. In addition to that, we've identified 40,000 beds nationwide, should they be needed," said Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt. 
Storm survivors, particularly in New Orleans where floodwaters remain, face a cauldron of infec­tious agents, public health experts said. 
"You can think of floodwaters as diluted sewage," said Mark Sobsey, a professor of environ­mental microbiology at the University of North Carolina. 
Whatever infections people carry go into sewage and can be expected to show up in floodwa­ters. That includes common diar­rheal germs including hepatitis A and Norwalk virus. 
"We are gravely concerned about the potential for cholera, typhoid and dehydrating diseases that could come as a result of the stagnant water and the condi­tions," said Leavitt. . However, officials at the feder­al Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other health experts said cholera and typhoid are not considered to be high risks in the area. CDC officials suggested Leavitt was simply mentioning examples of diseases that could arise from contami­nated food and water. 
Some experts said worries about catching illnesses from being near dead animals or human bodies are somewhat overblown. 
"People who are alive can give you a whole lot more diseases than people who are dead," said Richard Garfield, a Columbia University professor of interna­tional clinical nursing who helped coordinate medical care in Indonesia after the tsunami. 
Mosquito-borne diseases may start to emerge within days. West Nile virus and dengue fever are both potential risks following a situation like the one in coastal Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana. Officials also cited carbon monoxide poisoning risks to people using generators and stoves. 

Back to School Special Turtle Creek Apartments 

Bring in this ad and receive a 2 
bedroom garden apartment tor the 
price of a one bedroom garden 
apartment* 
Get a 2 bedroom remodeled town 
home tor a special reduced priceI* 
Refrigerator, stove, dishwasher, and garbage disposal included in every apartment! 
574-272-8124 1710 Turtle Creek Drive 
* Some restrictions apply. 
South Bend, IN 45637 
Lease term must be 1 0 months 
or longer. Not valid on any lease 
applications generated before 

Expiration Date: 12/31/05 B/29/2005 or after 12/31/2005. 


BRUNO'S PIZZA 
Are you interested in learning more about being Confirmed here at the University of Notre Dame? 

Sunday, September 4th-2:00-3:00pm Tuesday, September 6th-7:00-S:OOpm 
Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Contact: Fr• .John Conley 631-7888 
or 
.John & Sylvia Dillon 631-7163 
C-M 
Campus~ 

Thursday Night Buffet $4.99 
All You Can Eat Pizza, Pasta, and Salad 
261 0 Prairie Ave. 574-288-3320 
Notre Dame Athletics Invites You to Attend The Inaugural 
DRr)P THE PUCK DINNER 
Tuesday, September 6 • Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
• Featuring as guest speaker legendary NHL coach and Hockey Hall of Farner Scotty Bowman (former Detroit Red Wings head coach, 
winningest coach in NHL history -including Nine Stanley Cups.) 
• 
Meet the 2005-06 Fighting Irish Hockey team and new head coach Jeff Jackson. 

• 
5-6pm open skate on the Joyce Center Ice Rink 

• 
6-6:45pm autographs with the Fighting Irish team. 

• 
7pm Dinner Sponsored by Famous and Speaking Program. 



Tickets only $10 
T'HE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, September l, 2005 
page 7 
================================================================~ 
MARKET RECAP 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volur~!l I ,424 I 72 ·~ 1,917,141,850 
AMEX 1,655:9,5 ±SlJII!~ NASDAQ 2,152.09 +22.33 NYSE 7,496.09 +99.03 S&PSOO I ,220.33 +II.92 NIKKEI(Tokyo) I2'.554.93 +141.33 
fTSf IOO(London) 5,296.90 +41.1 () 
COMPANY %CHANGE NASDAQ IOO(QQQQ) +0.93 +0.36 38.98 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0. 7 4 +0.20 27.38 
SUN MICROSYS INC (SUNW) + I .88 +0.07 3.80 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.63 +0.11 17.62 
INTEL CP (INTC) +0.59 +0.1 5 25.72 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.07 -0.46 42.61 
I0-YEAR NOTE -1.71 -0.70 40.20 
5-YEAR NOTE -2.37 -0.94 38.69 
3-MONTH BILL -1.3 -0.47 34.30 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.87 68.94 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.60 438.10 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.45 81.30 
Excha Rates 
YEN I I 0.6650 
EURO 0.8107 
POUND 0.5547 
CANADIAN$ 1.1898 
IN BRIEF Grand jury indicts drug companies 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -A federal grand jury indicted three businesses and 11 people Wednosday in an alleged conspiracy to sell $42 million worth of counterfeit, stolen and illegally import1~d prescription drugs, includ­ing the popular cholesterol drug Lipitor. 
The 57-count indictment named Kansas City-based Albers Medical Distributors Inc., Lexington, Neb.-based Med-Pro Inc., and Springfiold, 111.-based II.D. Smith Wholesale Drug Co. 
According to the indictment, the defendants acquired the drugs from a number of sources, repackagea them in counterfeit bottles and then sold them through wholesalers and retailers, often using fake documents to hide their origins. 
Food and Drug Administration agent Larry Sperl said ollicials had no reports of ill health effects from the drugs. More than likely, the fakes simply didn't provide the benefit the patients expected, he said. 
Airlines cancel southern flights 
ATLANTA -Some major carriers have canceled flights to the New Orleans and Gulfport, Miss., airports -popular destina­tions for tourists, convention participants and gamblers -until at least next week, increasing financial pressure for the airlines as they also deal with potential fuel short­ages. 
Daily jet fuel production nationwide has been cut 13 percent because of damage from the hurricane to Gulf Coast refineries, aecording to Jack Evans of the Air Transport Association. 
"What it means is there is less fuel essen­tially," Evans said Wednesday. "Carriers are having to take measures to conserve fuel at airports where they are low and tanker in l'uel when serving some destinations on the East Coast." 
Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport, meanwhile, has rnopnnnd to allow humanitarian flights in and out during daylight hours, but oflieials are unsure when commercial service will resume there. The uncertainty has raised questions about the financial impaet on the airlines that in particular serve that airport. 
Gas prices soar in aftermath of Katrina 
Government may loan oil, relax environmental restrictions; motorists in dilemma 
Associated Press 
Gasoline prices leaped nationwide Wndnnsday as key rnf'ineries and pipelines remained crip­pled by Hurricane Katrina, erimping supplies and leading to eaps on the amount of l'uel delivered to retailers. 
To boost supplies, the 
U.S. government said it would loan oil to n~finers faeing shortfalls and relax environmental restrictions on tho type or gasol inc sold during summer. Crude l'utures priees fell but renHtinnd dosn to $69 a barrel. 
Just how bad thn situa­tioq beeomes for motorists. who aro faeing pump prices in exeess of $3 a gallon in a growing number of markets, depends on how quickly nlectridty can be restored to Gulf Coast pipelines and rnf'ineries, analysts said. Flooding may have left some important ref'inery equipment submerged and it will be days before a full damage assessment is completed, industry offi­cials and analysts said. 
Some rays of hope emerged Wednesday. The Colonial Pipeline Co. said it would restore partial service with help from Offshore Oil Port, through facilities. Onshore, whole­that it is making "pricing diesel generators that will which 10 percent of all sale gasoline suppliers decisions with prudence allow it to begin shipping U.S. oil imports flow, said have begun capping the and restraint in tho wake gasoline, heating oil and generators would enable amount of fuel they sell to of this natural disaster." jet fuel from llouston to it to gradually resume retailers in certain mar­Light sweet crude for markets up and down the partial service. kets to make sure retail­October delivery on the East Coast. A "Every little bit is going ers do not take delivery of New York Mercantile Transportation to help," said oil analyst more fuel than they actu­Exchange fell 87 eents to Department spokesman John Kilduff at Fimat USA ally need. Analysts said settle at $68.94 a barrel, said Wednesday the in New York. that while shortages have down from an overnight Plantation Pipe Line Co. A significant amount of been reported in a small high of $70.65. On would restore partial oil and gas production in number of markets, they Tuesday, oil futures set­service on its East Coast the Gulf of Mexico do not believe the problem tled at $69.81, tho highest lines Wednesday night as remains shut and reports is widespread and they closing price on Nymex well and that both compa­of banged-up platforms cautioned motorists not to since trading began in nies expected to be fully and missing rigs contin­top off tanks out of fear. 1983, although still below operational by late ued to trickle in as compa­With retail gasoline the inflation-adjusted high Thursday. nies conducted aerial prices surging, BP PLC of about $90 a barrel that 
Similarly, the Louisiana inspections of offshore said in an e-mail to clients was set in 1980. 

Companies donate millions to hurricane relief aid 
vials of refrigerated insulin to health care giant Johnson & Johnson
Associated Press 
patients in the Southeast, along with provided $250,000 worth of kits con­Pharmaceutical companies round­at least $1 million in cash to the Red taining toothbrushes, soap and ed up much-needed medicine, water Cross. shampoo, as well as pallets of pain 
suppliers loaded trucks with thirst­"We're poised to ship as soon as relievers and wound care supplins. quenching cargo and companies we get the OK," Lilly spokesman Drug maker Merck & Co. planned to from petroleum giants to beer mak­Edward Sagebiel said. send antibiotics and hepatitis A vac­ers pitehed in millions in cash and Lilly also pledged to match dollar­cines to protect those facing contam­
products Wednesday to help commu­for-dollar contributions made by inated waters. 
nities battered by Hurricane Katrina. employees. "Our commitment is open-endnd," 
The efforts to collect money and Indianapolis-based WeliPoint said Merck spokeswoman Janet goods to help the Gulf Coast rebuild announced Wednesday it would Skidmore. gathered momentum Wednesday as donate $500,000 to the Red Cross, Illinois-based pharmaceutical com­officials continued assessing the and match 50 percent of contribu­pany Abbott Laboratories Ine. is giv­damage from one of the nation's tions from its employees. ing $2 million eash and at least $2 worst natural disasters. "It is very important to organize million in nutritional and medical 
American Hed Cross spokeswoman support for relief efforts as soon as products. Sarah Marchetti said at least 30 possible, to ensure that relief agen­The U.S. Chamber of Comrnnren companies had made donations by cies will have the resources they said initial eorporate donations to Wednesday morning, and the num­need to carry out the massive task at the relief efforts eould total morn ber was expected to climb. hand," WellPoint CEO Larry C. Glass than $100 mi1lion. 
"They've been pouring in," she cock said in a statement. Hank Goldstein, chairman of said. Drug maker Wyeth of Madison, Giving USA in Glenview, Ill., said In Indianapolis, drug maker Eli N.J., planned to donate antibiotics individual and eorporate donations Lilly & Co. prepared to send 40,000 and nonprescription pain relievers, combined could roach $1 billion. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 1, 2005 
PHILIPPINES 


Legislators end impeachment 
Associated Press 
MANILA -President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo's congres­sional allies dealt a major blow Wednesday to efforts to oust her, using their dominating majority -and the opposition's absence -to toss out all three impeach­ment complaints against her. 
Opposition legislators cried foul and warned that the coun­try's third "people power" revolt loomed. They watched the events unfold on TV, like the rest of the country, after walking out a day earlier from the House justice department committee hearing on the complaints. 
But despite clashes between riot police and anti-Arroyo demonstrators outside Congress that injured 11 protesters, there was little sign that allegations of Arroyo rigging last year's elec­tion were generating the emo­tions -or masses -that fueled the peaceful ousters of dictator Ferdinand Marcos in 1986 and Arroyo's predecessor, President Joseph Estrada, in 2001. 
"I hope the public will receive it favorably," said pro-Arroyo Rep. Rodolfo Antonino. "If the opposition claims that this was railroaded, it was not railroad­ed. They were the ones who walked out." 
The opposition did indeed claim it was railroaded, saying the committee hearing was a well-orchestrated sham. Pro­Arroyo lawmakers claimed the opposition was using its own theatrics, calling the walkout a desperate, premeditated attempt to trigger street protests. 
Opposition spokesman Hep. Francis Escudero said the impeachment charges are now on "life support," adding: "Our country is now on life support because the issues would not be foreclosed." 
The opposition held slim hopes of still getting 79 signatures ­one-third of the House of Representatives -that are needed to send the case directly to the Senate for trial. It claims it is six signatures short. 
The committee vote culminat­ed two rancorous days, starting with Tuesday's walkout. The opposition claimed the case was being killed unfairly, without getting a real hearing, on the strength of the administration dominance in the House. 
Arroyo's allies first voted to exclude two of the three impeachment complaints, including one crafted by the opposition accusing her of three major offenses, including betray­al of the public trust. 
That left the original com­plaint, which is widely consid­ered to be the weakest -and which the opposition claims was crafted two months ago by Arroyo allies as a safeguard against possible impeachment. Only one impeachment charge can be flied against an oflicial in a year. 
After rejecting suggestions that the complaint was legally 
faulty, the committee voted 49-1 that it could it not be pursued legally, in part because it would require using illegal wiretaps as evidence. 
Pro-Arroyo lawmakers broke into applause, some shaking each other's hands. 
The opposition fumed. 
"This is the saddest day per­haps in Congress," said leftist Hep. Teodoro Casino. "This so brazen. The people have no other choice but to take to the streets because that is the only place we can resolve all these questions raised here." 
TV video showed police push­ing back rain-soaked protesters with fiberglass shields and hit­ting them with wooden trun­cheons, including women sprawled on the road. A protest­er, blood oozing from his head, was escorted away by compan­ions. Some demonstrators fought back with stones. 
Popular televangelist Eddie Villanueva, a failed presidential candidate, urged the opposition to exhaust constitutional means of pressing the charges against Arroyo, but warned that people would have no recourse but to take to the streets if the charges were dismissed on a technicality. 
"If they kill this -the fight of principled lawmakers -today or tomorrow, in front of God and history, it's justified for the Filipino people.... They could not be stopped from going to the court of the streets," Villanueva said. 
FRANCE 


President calls for 
changes in capital 
Associated Press 
PARIS -President Jacques Chirac said France must build more public housing and reno­vate crumbling apartment buildings, an urgent response to three fires that recently burned through run-down Paris lodgings and killed scores of African immigrants. 
Police, meanwhile, were preparing to evacuate the cap­ital's most dilapidated apart­ment buildings and havens for squatters this week. 
At a Cabinet meeting, Chirae told Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin to draw up plans to renovate run-down apartment buildings -a response to the blazes that killed a total of 48 people since spring, most of them African immigrants. 
"Faced with this situation, we must act," Chirac said, in comments relayed by govern­ment spokesman Jean­Francais Cope. "What's urgent is to ensure the safety of peo­ple living in precarious hous­ing." 
The latest fire occurred Monday as flames swept through a dilapidated building in central Paris, killing seven people, including a 6-year-old boy. His desperate mother threw him from a fifth-floor window. 

The tragedy highlighted the plight of growing immigrant populations and the precari­ous conditions in which an estimated two million people live in France. 
The blaze began on the sec­ond floor of the building which, according to police and city officials, housed 40-60 people from the Ivory Coast ­about half of whom were ille­gal immigrants. Authorities say they believe the fire was accidental. 
On Friday, another blaze in a Left Bank building killed 17 African immigrants, including 14 children. Four months ear­lier, a fire in a budget hotel killed 24 people, mainly immi­grants. 
Officials were quick to pledge action after the latest fire. 
"Money is not an issue in this affair," Housing Minister Jean-Louis Borloo told France-Info radio. "We just have organization problems, problems with speed. This takes time, and it's complex." 
In a commentary in the daily Le Monde, Paris Mayor Bertrand Delanoe Delanoe suggested Monday's disaster could have been avoided because the building was ofli­cially classified as "irreparably unlit" in July 2002. 

Thursday, September 1, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Roberts opposes O'Connor on key issues 
Supreme court candidate will be deciding vote on abortion, campaign finance, religion 
Associated Press 
Wi\SIIINf;TON -Suprnme Court nornirHw John Hobert.s. likn Sandra Day O'Connor, is polislwd and popular, with a warm plainspoknn styln and surprising pluck. 
Whnn it comes to substance, however, tlw two have diiTnr­ences that will nudge the dividnd court to the right if, as nxpnctnd, Hobnrts is confirmnd to sucen«\d the retiring 0'Connor. 
The dil'fornnees have boon illuminated in thousands of pagns of documents from Hoberts' tirnn as a lawyer in the Hmtgan administration and tlw first Bush administration and as a fndnral appeals court judgn. Thny rnveal a man like­ly t.o fall in linn with his nwn­Lor, consnrvativn ChiP!' Justiee William II. Hnhnquist, morn ol'tnn than O'Connor did during h«>r 24 ynars on tlw court. 
Although Hnhnquist and O'Connor agrnnd on about thr«ln-fourths of the court's rasns, tlwy part.nd l'ompany on SOIIII' of thP holtnst iSSUI'S. With O'Connor's dnparllrrn, thn rourt is dividnd 4-4 on abor­tion rnstrictions, campaign finance limits, discrimination laws, and religion. 
Hohnrts will hn questionnd rwxt wenk at his Senatn confir­mation !waring about those matters and otlwrs. Until then, his previous work provides the main insight into where he will Clinton. O'Connor, a moderate, stand on issues before the was the pivotal vote, shirting court. between the liberal wing and 
For example, documents the conservative foursome show Hoberts' support for headed by Hehnquist. prayer in public schools and As the first woman justice, national identification cards O'Connor voted to uphold Hoe and how he fretted over and has been influential in extended death penalty women's issues. Earlier this appeals. IIe advocated broad year, shn wroto a 5-4 decision power for the White I louse and that expanded the scope of the disparaged state efforts to Title IX gender equity law. combat discrimination against Hehnquist, who hired Hoberts 
women.  as a  law clerk  
Roberts refnrred  in 1980, dis­ 
in ono memo to the "abortion tragedy" and helped write a legal brief that  "When people say there will be seismic change in  agreed with the ruling. Rehnquist and O'Connor  
argued  for  over­ affirmative action  also  were  
turning Hon v. Wade, the land­mark 1973 abor­ and religion, I think that's just smoke."  sometimes at odds on reli­g i o n  
tion case. And  as a  O'Connor's votn  
judge, he nrnbraecd  Richard Garnett  has helped the  
poliee authority in car searches. Many of' those  Notre Dame law professor  court bar gov­ernment ol'fi­eials from  
stands put him  at  erecting Ten  
odds with O'Connor  - and in  Commandrnonts displays for  

lino with Hnhnquist-and religious purposes. The two illustrate tlw high sUtkl'ls of the justices also differed on first vaeaney at tho Supreme whether to prohibit clergy-led Court in II ynars. invocations at public school 
()('the nino justi<:PS during graduation enremonies and O'Connor's tnnure, seven were student-led prayer at football appointed by Hnpubliean presi­gamns. dnnts. But two of them, John Hoberts said in 1985 that it Paul Stevens and David II. "seems indeff\nsible" that tho Souter, ol'tm1 vote with .Justices Constitution prohibits a Huth Bader Ginsburg and moment of silent reflection or Stephen Breyer, appointed by even silent prayer in schools. Demoeratic President Bill With Hoberts on the court, "we will see a lessoning of whatever separation (of church and state) is left," pre­dicted Marei Hamilton, a for­mer O'Connor clerk who teaches at Yeshiva University's Cardozo School of Law. 
O'Connor's departure leaves the court evenly split in anotll­er area: al'lirmative action. She supported it in some instances. In his Reagan-era writings, Roberts seemed unsympathetic to what he called "quotas." 
Richard Garnett, a Notre Dame law professor and for­mer Rehnquist clerk, predicted only minor changes with Roberts. 50, replacing the 75­year-old O'Connor. 
"When P.eople say there will be seismic changes in affirma­tive aetion and religion, I think that's just smoke," Garnett said. "I don't think there's much room for change. There's room at tho margins in dose eases." 
The thousands of documents that have been released cover Hoberts' work when hn was in his 20s and early 30s. It is unclear if his vif~ws havn changed in the past two decades. 
As a judge sinen 2003. Hoberts has not dealt with tho hot button issues of the Heagan years. like race and abortion. lie has, however, won a reputation as a judge friendly to government and police. 


J)I~I~I~NI)JNfr Nil'l,lf)Nill.. f~llillll1 1f)NS 
Inn·.SaintMary's 
HQtel .t-St1lt~~!o•

Nf)'rltl~ J)J\)11~ l\rf))JI~N'S Sf)(~(~l~ll 
Inn at Saint Mary's Soccer Classic 
Come Out To See•.. 4 Teams Ranked Top 25 In The Country 
#9 Connecticut vs. #24 Maryland at 5pm #r Notre Dame vs. #I3 Florida at 7·'30 pm 
•First 
500 fans receive a 2004 National Champion car flag sponsored by Inn at Saint Mary's 

•First 
250 fans receive a Chick-fil-A sandwich, while supplies last! ~&f;.t 


#9 Connecticut vs. #I3 Florida at II am #I Notre Dame vs. #24 Maryland at I pm 
Mother tours U.S. in protest 
Associated Press 
CH/\WFOHI>, Texas -Aftnr a 
26-day vigil that ignited the 
anti-war movement, Cindy 
Slwohan took hor protest on the 
road Wednesday, while a hand­
ful of veterans plndgnd to con­
tinuo camping oil' thn road lead­
ing to President Bush's ranch 
until tho war in Iraq nnds. 
Hather than heading horne to 
California. the mother of a 24­
year-old soldier who died in 
Iraq boarded one of thren buses 
heading out on tour to spread 
her message. 
"This is whore I'm going to 
spend every August from now 
on." Shonhan said as she smiled 
and waved through a bus win­
dow. aftor hugging doznns of 
f1~1low protnstnrs. 
Tho group plans to stop in 25 
statns during the rwxt thrno 
wneks, thnn takn Shnnhan's 
"Bring Tlwm llonw Now Tour" 
to tlw nation's capital for a 
Snpt.. 24 anti-war mareh. 
Shnehan had vownd to stay in 
Crawford until Bush's month­
long vaeation muted or until slw 
could question him about tho 
war that daimml t.lw lifo of hnr 
son Casey and rwarly I ,IJOO 
other U.S. soldiors. Sho missed 
a week of the protest because of' 
her mother's stroke. 
"Wo'ro going to keep on ques­
tioning him, and we're going to 
keep on until our troops are 
brought home boeause tlwro's 
no noble cause," she said 
Wednesday. "And that's why 
Georgo Bush eouldn't eomo out 
and talk to me because he does­
n't have a noble cause" for the 
war. 

Whilo two top Bush adminis­
tration officials talked to 
Sheehan the first day, tho presi­
dent never did during hnr 
Crawford stay -although lw 
said that he sympathizes with 
her. llis vacation ended 
Wednesday, two days early, so 
he could monitor liJdnral em>rts 
to help hurricane victims on the 
Gulf Coast. 
While dozens of protesters paeknd tents and anti-war ban­ners Wodnosday, a fow tents remained so at lnast two ·Veterans for Peace members ean keep camping there 24 hours a day until the war ends, said Carl Hising-Moore of 
Indianapolis. 
"What happened hero has 
creatnd a shil't of consdence on 
a global basis. It's famous. It 
needs to be remomborod," 
Rising-Moore said. "And 
President Bush spends an 
incredible amount of time 

Meet at Alumni Field at 6:15pm and YOU will receive ... 
• A FREE 2004 National Champion shirt, while supplies last 
• FREE face paint to show your Irish pride on TV 
• FREE Pizza, while supplies last 
...~..,The women1s soccer team is lookingfor craz_y students to show their Irish pride to thousands of TV viewers! 
Stick around to watch...#1 Notre Dame battle it out against #13 Florida at T30 pm BE THERE ... This Friday Night at 6:15pm
ID! 


page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 1, 2005 
PUERTO RICO 


Alleged terrorists demand trial through hunger strikes 
Associated Press 

SAN JUAN -Scores of detainees have started a new hunger strike at the U.S. prison for terror suspects in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, demanding to be put on trial or released, human rights lawyers said Wednesday. 
Many have been held more than 3 1/2 years without charge or access to lawyers. Most were captured in the Afghanistan war, suspected of tics to al-Qaida or the ousted Taliban regime that sheltered the terrorist network. 
The hunger-striking detainees allege the Pentagon reneged on promises to bring the detention camp into com­pliance with Geneva Conventions if they ended a hunger strike this summer involving up to 200 of the 500­plus detained men from some 40 countries, the New York­based Center for Constitutional Rights said. 
The military said only 52 prisoners were involved in the first strike. An attorney with the center, Gitanjali Gutierrez said the Pentagon "hid evi­dence of the hunger strike and prisoner abuse from visiting senators and the public." 
"Prisoners are now prepared to die in an effort to receive a fair hearing and humane treatment," Gutierrez said. 
Spokesmen for the detention mission at Guantanamo could not immediately be reached for comment. Several tele­phones in the public affairs office there rang without 
response. There was no imme­diate response to e-mail mes­sages. A Pentagon spokesman referred a reporter to the mili­tary's Miami-based Southern Command, which said com­ment could come only directly from Guantanamo. 
Detainee Binyam "Benjamin" Mohammed al-Habashi said the military promised that if they stopped the June-July hunger strike "they would bring the prison into compli­ance with the Geneva Conventions." 
That strike ended July 28, but nothing had changed by Aug. 11, said Mohammed, an Ethiopian refugee detained in Pakistan in 2002. 
Mohammed said some 150 detainees began refusing meals at the beginning of August and were joined by another 60 on Aug. 11. He told his lawyer he had planned to start his fast Aug. 12, 
"I do not plan to stop until I either die or we are respected. People will definitely die," he said. 





FAITHPOINT 
waats Up'l
Thursday, September 1, 2005 

TORIGIIT 9/1


LIVE IT!!! 
Irons Sharpens Iron Ministry (lSI) 

All across campus, ND students are living out their 
faith. Teams of students sing their hearts out in the 
Kick-off Basilica and in the dorms, prepare and lead Campus 
329 Co-Mo lOPM Ministry retreats, share in small Emmaus groups, and set a great example for all of us. 
rRIDAY9/9.· SATURDAY 9/'S

We've all been touched by the example of somebody who confidently lives out his or 
Asian/Asian American
her call as a Christian witness. Starting next week, this section will 
Freshman Retreat introduce you to different ND student leaders of faith. 
Sacred Heart Parish Ctr. 
•. 
Latino )freshman Retreat Sacred Heart Parish Ctr. Send nominations to Brian Vassel at bvassel(CV,nd.edu 
Let us know who out there is 111.aking a differen~e! 
..::::> 


sunDAY9/4

Catholie f}&-A 
.. . .

What If I m Not Catholic? 
Protestant Student Welcome Session Co-Mo Lounge 2-4PM 

What's in a name? 
After the white smoke rose from that chimney in Rome last April, the whole Catholic world held its breath in anticipation ofthe announcement ofthe newly-elected pope, the 2651h universal pastor ofthe Catholic Church. Just after it was announced that our new pope was indeed 
RCIA Information Sessions that prelate and theologian formerly known as Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger, we heard the name under 
for Candidates, Catechumens, which he would serve as pope: Benedict XVI. But why that name? Why do popes even change 
and Sponsors: 
their names? 
330 Co-Mo l-2PM 

The first occasion ofa pope changing his name upon his election was in 533, when an elderly Italian priest by the pagan Roman name of"Mercury" selected "John II" to replace his given 
Confirmation Program 
name. Pope John II wisely realized that governing the Catholic Church under the name of"Pope 
Information Session 

Mercury" might indeed raise eyebrows, specifically at a time when the persecutions Christians 
330 Co-Mo 2-3PM

suffered under pagan Roman leadership were still very fresh in the collective Christian memory. Thus the tradition ofselecting a new name, while not compulsory, was installed upon the office ofPope. Cardinal Ratzinger selection of"Benedict XVI," though, demonstrated a good bit more, perhaps most notably a clear break with the recent 
Tue1day 9/6

past. By choosing a completely new name (as opposed to John Paul III), Benedict communicated to the world that he would indeed 'be his own man,' and not simply follow in the shadows ofhis predecessor. At his first appearance the day ofhis election, Benedict XVI explained further his decision: "I wanted to call myself 


1161:1 

Benedict XVI to bind myself to the venerated Pope Benedict XV (1914-1922), who guided the Church in a troubled period because 
Ministry Kick-off

ofthe First World War. He was a courageous and authentic prophet ofpeace and worked with valiant courage first to prevent the drama ofwar and then to limit its nefarious consequences." He continued, "In his footsteps, I want to place my ministry at the service ofreconciliation and harmony among individuals and peoples, deeply convinced that the great good ofpeace is, first ofall, a 
FREE FOOD -7 PM gift ofGod...." May God bless Benedict XVI and his ministry! 
@ Field House Mall 
Worship -8:30 PM @ Cavanaugh Hall Chapel 
Send you t-questions to Brett Perkins at Perkins.26@nd .edu 1 

Twenty-third Sunday in Ordinary Time
Phone 
1-7800 
Lector Workshops 

Web 
1st 2nd Gospel 
Basilica 8:30PM 

campusministry.nd.edu 
Ezekiel Romans Matthew

Main Office 
Eucharistic Ministry Training
33:7-9 13:8-10 18:15-20

319CoMo 
··(mandatory if interested) 
Retreats Office 
Basilica lOPM

ampus Ministry 
114CoMo 


Thursday, September 1, 2005 The Observer +INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 1 I 
RUSSIA 
Falllilies lllourn losses, afraid of future attacks 
Russian people remember terrorist school siege 
Associated Press 
BESIAN-Anhruished relatives of children killed in a school siege a year ago said Wednesday the government has failed to learn from the tragedy and they warned persistent corruption has left Hussia vulnerable to similar attacks in the future. 
"If this isn't corrected, there will be another terrorist attack like Beslan," said Susanna Dudiyeva, whose son was among morn than 330 pnople killed. "We urn lighting for the truth." 
I h1r commenL<; came on the eve of ceremonies in a burnt-out gymnasium decorated with stum~d animals to mark the first anniversary of the hostage-tak­ing, which bngan Sept. 1, 2004, on the lirst day of school. 
who resembles Abu Dzeit, a 
Kuwaiti national and alleged al­
Qaida liaison who was killed by 
seeurity forces in February. 
There was no way to immedi­
ately determine the video's 
authenticity or exactly when it 
was shot. But some people in it 
appeared to be those blamed by 
Russia for carrying out the 
attack, and the summer-like 
• baekground in the footage lends eredence to the belief it was shot in months just prior to the raid. 
Thousands of Ossetians were expected to be in Beslan for the commemorative ceremonies that begin Thursday. But Putin was unwelcome "since he is responsi­ble for what happened in Beslan," Dudiyeva said. "He is the guarantor of our freedom 
and our security and therefore, the 
Several mothers "As a man, as a responsibility (for of victims have Beslan) lies with
father, as an 
accused President president first and
Ossetian, we all
Vladimir Putin's foremost." government of should feel guilt. " North Ossetian mounting a cover­leader Taimuraz up. insisting the Mamsurov, whose
Talmuraz Mamsurov 
militanlo.; had help predecessor was
North Ossetlan 
from eorrupt om­forced out after the dais to allow them leader Beslan attack, said 
to cross heavily policnd territory of North Ossetia, where Beslan is located. 
Critics also allege that corrup­tion may have contributed to the apparent ease with which the more than 30 heavily armed attackers made their way to the school. 
At School No. 1 's gymnasium, where more than 1,100 people­mostly childrnn -endured near­ly three days of heat, thirst, hunger and fear. color photo­graphs of the victims hang on bullet-scarred walls alongside faded graffiti begging victims' forgiveness. 
Dying carnations rested on windowsills next to burned tim­hers and mildewed stufl'ed ani­mals. The remnants of the roof, which collapsed on vietims on the last day of the siege, were eov­nred by mntal and plastic to shinld against rain. 
Thn militants who comman­deernd the gymnasium demand­nd an nnd to Hussian military presence in Chechnya. The attack ended Sept. 3 when Hussian forces stormed the school after explosions were lward inside. More than half the hostages who died were children. 
"The government is supposed to guarantee our lives, take msponsibility for our lives, and they haven't, so we're taking responsibility," said Dudiyeva, head of tho Beslan Mothers' Committee. Hcpresentatives of the group will fly to Moseow on Friday to mnet Putin and address grinvanees, she said. 
Also, a video obtained Wndnesday by Associated Press Tnlovision News shows notorious Chnehen warlord Shamil Basayev -who has claimed he master­mined the attaek -and several other fighters at their forest eamp apparently preparing for the raid. 
One seetion shows a man known as the Colonel, who allegedly led the raid, as an inter­viewer asks if he is longing for Allah. lie responds yes. Another frame shows a lighter in glasses. a beard and dressed in fatigues 
Russian special 
forces acted "abominably" in the seizure's final hours, when most of the hostages died. Some witness have said tank fire, flame-throw­ers and sniper bullets killed far more people than the hostage­takers did. 
"As a man, as a father, as a resident, as a leader, as an Ossetian, we all should feel guilt." Mamsurov said in an interview with foreign journal­ists. 
Zalina Guboreva, 42, called for officials to be held responsible for the attaek that killed her mother and her 9-year-old son. 
"We've had awards, we've had promotions.... But not one pun­ishment," she said. "The whole month we've been unable to eat, to drink, to sleep. It's even worse now. My son was my entire life." 
Another mother. 41-year-old Emma Kisayeva. said Putin should resign. "The man who failed in Moscow, who is to blame for the death of so many people, should not be the president," she said. "Enough is enough. They are ordinary people and should be held responsible for all their mistakes and their crimes." 
Basayev claimed Russian seeu­rity serviees enabled the hostage­takers to travel unhindered through the region and that a Hussian double agent had been among them. 
In the statement posted Wednnsday on the KavkazCenter Web site, Basayev said top secu­rity officials in North Ossetia opened a safe route Aug. 31 for rebels to rcaeh the regional capi­tal. Vladikavkaz. The alleged double agent was supposed to have gained Basayev's confi­dence and then led his men into a trap as they were en route to seize government buildings in Vladikavkaz on Sept. 6. 
Instead. the militants seized the school. Basayev said. 
Basayev's claim seemed designed in part to stoke already strong distrust of top government offieials in the volatile region that includes North Ossetia and Cheehnya. 
NORTH KOREA 

Show-serves as Kitn propoganda 
Associated Press 
SEOUL -North Koreans are flocking to their capital to view performances of a mass gymnastics event that is the highlight of government prop­aganda efforts aimed at inspiring support for the Kim dynasty. 
Some 300,000 people have traveled on special trains and buses to watch what the North calls a "mass game" that opened Aug. 15 on the 60th anniversary of Korea's liberation from Japan's colo­nial rule. 
With 100,000 performers, the event features synchro­nized acrobatics against the backdrop of an entire side of a stadium being used as a mosaic where children turn colored pages in books to form giant pictures and ani­mation. 
Before it closes in mid­October, an estimated 10 per­cent of the country's 23 mil­lion population are expected to have seen the show. 
Experts say this year's per­formance is the largest such spectacle in three years. causing North Korea watch­ers to speculate whether the show could signal a major policy announcement -as they apparently have in the past -or whether it is simply intended to shore up support among citizens who have suf­fered years of starvation. 
The performance might be a prelude to a ruling party convention, said Jhe Seong­ho, a professor at Seoul's ChoongAng University. His view mirrors long-running speculation that the party 
could meet for the first time in 25 years when it celebrates its 60th anniversary -and that ruler Kim Jong II eould designate his successor. 
"Convening a party conven­tion this year would be mean­ingful as the country is facing various internal and external hardships," Jhe said. 
In 2002, North Korea put on a similar-sized show to mark the 90th anniversary of the birthday of founding North shambles. Sinee the mid­1990s, the country has rnlied on outside handouts to feed its people. Activists elaim more than 100,000 North Koreans are living in hiding in China after fleeing their hunger-stricken eommunist homeland. Sinee 1998, about 5,500 North Koreans have defected to the South. 

Back Seung-joo, a North Korea expert at the state-run 
Korea Institute 
for Defense 

Korean ruler 'This mass game is Analysis. said he Kim II Sung, has seen signs
a huge political 
the father of this year that loy­
show aimed at 
Kim Jong II alty to the regime who remains inspiring loyalty is waning. the country's "This mass
from the North 
"eternal presi­game is a huge
Korean public. " 
dent" despite political show his 1994 death. aimed at inspiring That year, Baek Seung-joo loyalty from the North Korea North Korean
Korea Institute for 
introduced public," he said. 
Defense Analysis 
market ele­Pyongyang touts 
expert

ments to its the event as the 
centrally con­trolled economy for the first time, phasing out its decades­old food rationing system. The measures caused massive inflation that has exacerbated the country's food crisis. 
Other experts and South Korea's government, howev­er, said the new show is sim­ply a morale-booster aimed at rallying North Koreans around Kim Jong II. 
"Through the festival. the North wants to boost the morale of its people living in difficult conditions," a South Korean official said, speaking on condition of anonymity due to the sensitive relations with the North. 
North Korea's economy is in 

"greatest monu­mental masterpiece" that was "completed under the ener­getic guidance and eare of leader Kim Jong II." When staged in 2002, the perform­ance "caused a great sensa­tion all over the world." the North's Korean Central News Agency said. 
North Korea claims about 70,000-80,000 foreigners watched the show in 2002, although the South's estimate is about 20,000. 
The "mass game" perform­ances are one of few areas in which the impoverished North far surpasses other countries -even putting Olympics' opening cere­monies to shame. 
SWITCH TO U.S. CELLULAR ••• AND KEEP YOUR CELL NUMBER! 
Only$2495amonth! 
Nationwide long Distance Included Unlimited CALL ME"' Minutes lnduded 
Nationwide Long Distance Included0 Unlimited CALL ME"~ Minutes Included UnlimitedMobile-to-Mobile Minutes 

NationalAnytime Minutes/ 
Only$2995a month! 
Nationwide Long Distance Included 
Unlimited CALL ME"' Minutes Included No Roaming Charges 
250 
Nationwide Long Distance Included 
Unlimited CALL MEw Minutes Included Unlimited Mobile-to-Mobile Minutes No Roaming Charges 
BOO 

................... ..~dd Unlimited Night & W~~~!~~~inutes starting at 7P."! O..lf'r.. $5.95/mo. 
MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND 
514 W. McKinley 117 North Main 4615 Miami Road Corner McKinley 1 blk. south of Colfax Miami & Ireland & Grape 574.288.9450 574.299.2860 574.252.5820 
4401 Western Ave. Inside Martin's 
~PREMIER
* LOCATIONS'
574.287.9628 

'Offer valeJ with twtr)'Jar conwmer ser.m:c agmemems. Ali seMce il!Jie"'"·"'" subJOCI to early trnmmallon teo. Credn aporo-.-al mourrntl. Acnvabonlee $3il. Unir1111ted Call Me MnMes a<e unly avarliiiJio mthe local colh"l area and all! oot dedur.md from pacici>,J<ld mioullls. Unlimited tocai Mobile·to-Mobiie rate allfllies to caUs jOIJ make or recei>e in vru Motile-to-Motile Calling Are.! isee l:rochiJmtor details! N.gl1ts and Weekends am avdila~e rn the local ~•lling area lor $5.95 per month lo! both tt-e Local and Nationall'lan. Urliimited Night &Weekend Minutes VdlirJ M.f 7pm tc 5:59am or;d ell day Sotulday und Sunrlily. Night &W~ Minute> we availa~e in local r~Hing area on~ l.ocai r.alling.,.. differs hom l!'gionai calling area See amp and rate <heel for details Promotional """ plan avail.lbleiO new and eMistill!J rus!Dmer& eligible IQt newpmrrotioo Promotional p!lorre subjectlo char~e and includes a$:JIJ maii·Ul mba!B. Ollar may ~rre il you change ji)!Jr wiling plan. C<JStomer is responsible lor all sales taxes. Ott.!r rastrictrons rr.av apply. See st0111 for detJils limited ~me off!Jf Roaming charges. fees. •;rchargas ann taxes may apply. inc!!Kiing aFederal and Other Regulatory foo cha<ge of $.00. ©2lll5 U.S. Ca!lular r.o~JOration 
-f< US.Cellular. 
AUTHORIZED AGENT 
.~:"(·l~liJUiWJrM 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, September 1, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Questioning tuition 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROllER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sportS. I @nd.edu ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advettisemenrs based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and departmenr editors. CAJmmenraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
I. The Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday ~hrough Friday cx~;c:pt d\lring exam and vacaticm periods. A subscription to The Observer is $100 for one 41:4demic year; $55 (or Ql\e $1!me;•Her. 
The Observer is published ar.-POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send .;~.ddress corn:ccioru co: 
Notre 0;Une,IN 46556.0779 Tiu: Observer 
Periodkal postage paid at No(tc Dame: P.O. Box 779 

and .lddidonal mailing offices. 024 Souch Dining Hall 
Norte Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Oh~rv:c:r i5 a member c,fthe: Assodated Ptesli. All ttpmd.uction rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Heather Van Mike Gilloon 
Hoegarden Ken Fowler Janice Flynn Justin O'Neill Lisa Schultz Scene 
Viewpoint UzByrum 
Joseph King Graphics Graham Ebetsch 

The new gateway on Notre Dame Avenue may remind you of the entrance to a national cemetery. But it also reminds students that their University has lots of money, including the 19th largest endowment and a tuition that rises with the best of them. 
This year, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose 
2.5 percent. Notre Dame tuition, room and board (TRB) rose 6.6 percent, from $37,100 to $39,552. Spending from the $3 billion Endowment covers one-sixth of the University's total expenditures. But student tuition and fee income pro­vides nearly 60 percent of the University's operating revenue. Since 1999, TRB increased by 39 percent, while the CPl increased by only 16 percent, but the University increased its financial aid by 151 percent. Notre Dame, through its excellent Financial Aid office, commits to meet the finan­cial needs of every student, but that generally includes the student's com­mitment to take loans, whether feder­al or private. A loan is "financial aid." 
A 2005 Cato Institute study conclud­ed that increases in federal financial aid enabled universities, beginning around 1980, to expand their research and building programs, rely­ing on federal loans to pass the costs on to students. As federal1oan avail­ability rose, the major universities raised their tuition, then lobbied for increased federa1loans, then raised tuition, and so on. The loan burden deters non-wealthy students from attending universities that play the tuition game. "At the most selective private universities across the coun­try, more fathers of freshmen are doc­tors than are hourly workers, teach­ers, clergy members, farmers or 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
members of the military combined." N.Y. Times, April 22, 2004, p. A1. 
Notre Dame is far from the worst offender. But it has used federal loan programs to expand its plant and to pursue Research Greatness while shifting the cost to students through tuition rises beyond the inflation rate. During the past 18 years, 27 new buildings were erected and 20 major renovations of other buildings took place. The end of the building binge is not in sight. The inevitable high-rise parking garage will symbolize Notre Dame's conversion to a crowded urban-type campus. We lack empirical evidence of any ability of our leaders to reject any big donation for any building project. 
In 1978-79, when Notre Dame first proclaimed itself "A National Catholic Research University," the Notre Dame TRB was $5,180. Adjusted for infla­tion, using the CPI, the 1978-79 total, in 2005 dollars, would now be $15,420. In real money, the TRB is now more than 2-1/2 times what it was when Notre Dame began its pur­suit ofResearch Prestige. In 2004-05, the average need-based University scholarship, given to the 44 percent of undergrads who qualified, was $16,740, bringing the total amount a scholarship student had to pay by cash, loans or work, down to $20,340, or $4,920 more than the 1978-79 TRB in real money. 
The primary historic mission of Notre Dame was undergrad education in the Catholic tradition, with research in an essential, complemen­tary role. Research, especially in the sciences, is an important part of Notre Dame's mission. But the research enterprise ought not to be the tail wagging the dog. 
Our leaders act in what they see as the best interests of Notre Dame. Any criticism here is of policies, not per­sons. But the burden of loans, required to finance the research enterprise, tends to compel Notre Dame grads to forego graduate edu­cation or community service and to defer marriage. It can make it difficult for those who do marry to remain open to having children. 

Notre Dame has been criticized at times for aping the Ivy League. Princeton, however, has a policy that Notre Dame ought to emulate. Princeton informed its incoming class of 2009: "Since ... 2001-02 ... no Princeton aid student has been required to take out a loan to pay for his or her education. The amount that a student normally would have received is replaced by increased Princeton grant. Our 'no loan' policy was a bold step in the opposite direc­tion from a national trend whereby student loans had grown to ... 60 per­cent of all aid and a typical student was borrowing nearly $20,000." Princeton's TRB is $38,297. In 2004­05, 608 students, or 52 percent of the Princeton freshman class, received scholarships averaging $26,100 for a total scholarship aid of $15.9 million. Students can obtain loans to cover unexpected expenses. But the basic aid package is "no loan." 
Princeton is not Notre Dame. It is smaller, with 6,836 students, includ­ing 4,678 full-time undergrads. Its endowment in 2004 was $9.9 billion, 3 times Notre Dame's. Notre Dame, however, has a unique ability to bring huge sums cascading into its coffers for special purposes. Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, should take the lead to enable its grads to serve the common good, and the good of their families and the Church, without a disabling student debt. To a regret­table degree, Notre Dame is investing instead in bricks, mortar and ostenta­tion. Notre Dame has a higher pur­pose. Our leaders ought to consider the Princeton approach. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at plawecki@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
What will the Notre Dame football team's regular season record be? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit aLetter tto tbe Editorat I
Iwww.ndsmcobserver.comI 

QUOTE OF THE DAY '/1 common mistake that people
make when tryin_q to design
something c_omprete7y joolprQof is 
to underestzmate the mg,enuzty of 
complete fools. ' 
Douglas Adams author 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 1, 2005 page 13 
Solidarity at Notre Dame is more than just a word 
I am sure that for many of us the hap­piness of being baek together for a new academic year at Notre Dame has been compromised by the death, suffering and destruction that is currently affect­ing so many people in Louisiana, Mississippi Father Richard and Alabama. The Warner situation afl'ecting the people of New Faithpoint Orleans is especially dramatic because of the many poor people who are probably most directly affected by this tragedy. 
Foremost in our thoughts and prayers, of course, are the families of our students, their friends and many of our alumni. We are mindful, too, of the Alliance for Catholic Education teachers who live and teach in areas af'f'eeted by hurricane Katrina, and the students, colleagues and families they work with in such a selfless way. 
Our Notre Dame Community always linds ways not only to remember people affeelt~d by violence and loss in our prayers, but also by sharing our finan­cial resources with them. In past years, we have assisted people affected by the tsunami in Asia, floods in Bangladesh and hurricanes in Haiti. We know that our gift is surely small, and even inade­quate, in the faee of such need, but we understand that to act with solidarity and compassion for those who suffer enables us to deepen our own sense of discipleship in imitation of Jesus, whose heart was always touched by anyone affected by illness or rejection -espe­cially the poor. 
This weekend, all monies collected in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and donations that have been made to the Basilica through the "poor box" will be sent in their entirety to Catholic Relief Services, the ACE communities, and to Holy Cross ministries in the south and southeast. 
I have asked the rectors to take up a special collection at the residence hall Masses on Sunday night that will be used in the same way. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Double standards 
As I watch news covnrage of the al'hmnath of llurri1:ano Katrina, I ean 't holp but think of last Dneernbnr's l<;unami. Like the nat­ural disa.'itnr that ravished the coastal arnas of Southeast Asia, I lurrieanc Katrina has reminded us of the incredible power of Mother Natum. With or without warning, first-and third-world nations alike arc unable to escape natural disa.<;ter. While the offects of both events arc largely the same -destruetion of proporty, eco­nomic downfall, poor sanitation, loss of human life (all of which have the grnatest elli:1et on the poor)-then~ is one striking dif­fimmen in the aftnrmath of llurricane Katrina: the global com­munity is silnnl. 
Now, it seems to me that after thn l'>unami. there was a groat deal of talk about being united in our humanity and coming together with thn eommon goal of saving human livns. Are rosidonl'> of the Gulf Coast not human? Perhaps thny an~ lowor down, as Michael Moore, Green Day and the Holling Stones would have us believe: they are Amorican. 
Why does the world (led largely by the United States) dive in to aid the victims of the tsunami, and yet remain sidelined during our disas­tnr'! Granted, tho U.S. is not a third-world eountry and already has mueh of the infrastructure needed to pull off a massive disas­ter relief e!Tort, yet I have not 
heard report of a single foreign dignitary ofl'ering his/her condo­lences of our loss. Whole commu­
nities are underwater, people arc still stranded on roofs or in attics, the chance of disease from the standing water is likely and yet the global community looks the other way. 
When the U.S. donates money and manpower to disaster relief efl'orts, the U.N. responds with crit­ieism: the U.S. was too stingy with its pledges, wasn't timely in fulfill­ing the pledges, or some other load of baloney. What ever happened to, "Don't look a gift horse in the mouth"? No one should ever be criticized for giving. Yet this is the · response the U.S. has grown aecustomed to from the interna­tional community: damned if we do, damned if we don't. 
The apathy of the global commu­nity to our disaster is utterly insult­ing to the donations of individual Americans last December. If disas­ter bothered the world in December, why not now? I don't expect a massive global contribu­tion to the Katrina relief effort, but is it too much to ask for acknowl­edh'lllent of our loss, or at least a break in the anti-Americanism? 
Sarah Harward alumna class of 2005 Aug. 31 
Act with respect 
As a 1994 alumna, I write to any of our students who will attend the Pitt game this Saturday. and particularly the ESPN College Game Day broadcast. 
In 2000, when Game Day chose our Nebraska game as its site, I was on set during the broadcast. At the close of the show, Lee Corso predietably slammed on the silliest Cornhusker hat imagina­ble, indieating his pick for the game. Unpredietably, one of our students­green T-shirt and all -threw a plastie beer cup at the stage. It sprayed beer all over Craig Fowler, and he was visi­bly upset. I was humiliated minutes later to be introduced as a Notre Dame graduate, and absolutely furious that one of our own would act so disgrace­fully. 

It is an honor that ESPN chose us, yet again, as their showcase game this Saturday. Treat those men with respect, or this time may be the last. 
Stephanie Joyce alumna class of 1994 Aug. 31 
I know that you will pray for this spe­cial intention and be generous with your donation, and I thank you in advance for your assistance. 
Finally, and on a different topic, I want to offer a word of welcome to the first year students who have joined us for the first time within the past few days. After a full week of class, it proba­bly feels like you have already been here for a long time. But I know that for many of you it is the fulfillment of long held dreams, and for all of you it will be an opportunity to enter into the many­faceted and wonderful realities that makes Notre Dame a family and an out­standing Catholic educational institu­tion. We really are a community of believers and a community of scholars. 
When you get a chance, read the plaque that is in front of the statue of St. Joseph alongside the Old College by St. Mary's Lake. The words contained there are from a letter of Father Edward Sorin, Notre Dame's founder, to Father Basil Moreau, the founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, shortly after his arrival here. Three things to note are that Notre Dame was placed under the patronage of Mary from the moments of its founding; the Eucharist has always played a special role in the lives of Notre Dame students; and because of these two realities, Notre Dame has been blessed by God and will continue to "be one of the most power­ful means for good in this country." Although Father Sorin did not know it at the time, the University of Notre Dame was then only the latest in a series of missionary efforts on these grounds for over two hundred years before he came with the Holy Cross brothers, and all of these efforts were dedicated to Mary. 

Father Richard Warner is the director ofcampus ministry. 1/e can be contacted at Warner.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Maintain perspective 
On the morning of Monday, Aug. 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina struck the mouth of the Mississippi River with sustained winds of up to 140 miles per hour. The potential for such a major catastrophe had not been seen since Hurricane Andrew in 1992. And such worries were justified -Katrina tore through the Gulf Coast, ripping apart buildings and flood­ing numerous areas beyond a livable state. 
Even now, Katrina's effects are still being felt by many in the Southeast. A flood levee in New Orleans suffered a breach the size of a football field, causing floods of up to 20 feet throughout the vast majority of the city. Most of the beachside property of Mississippi cities Biloxi and Gulfport has been either destroyed or severely damaged. President Bush has declared the states of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama federal disaster areas. And at this very moment, lives continue to remain in peril. 
The numerous branches of the news media, including news channels such as CNN, MSNBC and Fox News, as well as several larger newspapers like the Chicago Tribune and New York Times, are quick to look past the well-being of their fellow human beings. Instead, they hastily jump into how Katrina will affect the stock market, how oil rigs that have been put out of commission will escalate gas prices, and how Katrina poses a "threat" to the economy. 
It is appalling, even downright disgusting, that today's news media publicizes the "major issues" so heavily to earn the largest piece of the ratings pie, doing so by overlooking the catastrophic damage done to the Gulf Coast and its population. While people are suffer­ing, even dying, due to Katrina, the media argues about the most miniscule of issues that are vaguely related to the storm. I lind this frame of mind immoral, seeing economic and political issues are being placed ahead of the safety of those in the Southeast. 

Now, I'm not saying that these issues shouldn't be talked about at all. I understand that political ramifications and economic issues will be of a high priority at any given time. However, this is not just any given time. This is a time where states of emergency have been declared by state governments across the Gulf Coast. This is a time where relief efforts are most needed. This is a time where humanity should be united, not divided by issues that pale in eomparison to the value of human life. Most importantly, this is a time where people are dying, and we should not hesitate to help them by any means possible. 
The media seriously needs to re-evaluate its priorities. When one places the cost of gaso­line ahead of the sacredness and value of humanity, something is obviously wrong. There is no good reason to even consider doing this. Certainly, ratings are vital to the success of a network or publication, yet this is no reason to overlook and cast aside people who are suffering at the hands of a natural disaster. There is a time and a plaee for everything; now is the time to help those in the disaster area, not bicker over economic problems caused by the disaster. 
Please keep those living in the Southeast in your prayers, and also pray that the news media will see the light and be more sensitive to humanity's well-being. 
Rob Lindley sophomore Keough Hall Aug. 30 

THE ()BSERVIR 
CENE

page 14 
Thursday, September 1, 2005 
CD R-EVIEWS 

Staind's latest effort retreads beaten path 


First full album shows Arcade Fire's potential 


By BOB COSTA 
Scene Criric 

When Limp Bizkit front man Fred Durst ushered Staind onto the national music stage in the late nineties with inclusion on the Bizkit-fronted "Family Values" tours and albums. he made Staind lead singer Aaron Lewis a hero to angry nu-metal fans who saw the band as the second coming of Alice in Chains. 
The subsequent success of Staind's breakthrough album "Break The Cycle" in 2001 yielded not only an expanded fan-base and radio hits ("It's Been Awhile" and "Outside") but also numer­ous copycats in the alt-metal genre. Since then. radio has been proliferated by Staind rip-off's like Nickelback, Puddle of Mudd and 3 Doors Down. That's enough maudlin lyrics and 
heavy guitar riffs posing as serious alternative rock to make Eddie Vedder puke. 
Yet on Staind 's recently released album "Chapter V." the band does nothing to revitalize a genre that was really just a revitalization of grunge. Staind sticks to the same formula used on "Break The Cycle" and their 2003 album. "14 Shades of Grey." Even with a wife and two children, Lewis sounds like the same disgruntled twenty­something reading out of his diary. Lewis' lyrics are extremely personal, and the man keeps grudges with old lovers like Nixon kept enemies -he can't seem to let go and embraces the chip on his shoulder. It fuels his music, but at times truly limits the band from moving past the wallowing of their vocalist and songwriter. 
'rhe album's third track, "Paper 
Jesus," is a brooding and heavy nu metal nugget that you'll only enjoy if you can handle the repet­itive thrashing of Staind's detuned electric guitars. which pulsate with fury rather than rhythm. It's a nice break from the rest of the album, which sometimes seems like "The Aaron Lewis Band" instead of a cohesive rock outfit. 
Another factor that diminishes the power of "Chapter V" is that it is just too slick in its production values. This is a band that gained notoriety for releasing a live and acoustic song ("Outside" featuring Fred Durst) to the radio that was gritty and sweltering in its own simplicity. 
At their core, these guys can't bal­ance being Metallica-lite or Nirvana gone metal. They need to be raw. surg­ing through albums and concerts with a miserable intensity. That intensity is heard on certain tracks of "Chapter V." specifically the ballad "Take This" and "Schizophrenic Conversations." a swelling rocker that positions Lewis in a comfortable lyrical position -talking to himself. 
Lewis is a talented vocalist. a fact that even the limited range of his song­writing can't diminish. On "Everything Changes," Staind fans will want to raise their cell phones or lighters dur­ing a show. The band turns down the volume for a bit, letting Lewis sing instead of yelling to be heard over the noise. Since "Chapter V" is presumed to be just the fifth chapter in not only Staind 's career but in the never-ending saga of Aaron Lewis' depression. fans can only hope by the next chapter. the man finds some redemption. 

As music fans witness acts likr Limp Bizkit. Papa Roach and Cold fall out ol' relevance. one has to wonder wlwthPr this may b(' tlw last of Staind. "ChapU~r V" is an a Ibum mad P for t hI' t r u <' bP!ievns in nu-mPtal angst. II' you don't buy into thr precnpts of' th<• genre, the album is just an unoriginal take on onP man's sorrow and rprog­nizable thrPe-chord changes. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal @nd.edu 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 

"Funeral," the first full-length album from the Montreal indie rock band. Arcade Fire. reveals the unusual sound that has won the band a huge following around the world. 
The innovative band uses a variety of instruments and a large number of multi-talented members to make songs that fuse many different types of music. The album is varied. interesting and unexpected. and it. unlike many albums. gets more enjoyable the more that you listen to it. 
The title of the album comes from the fact that several band members experi­enced the loss of family members while making the album. The themes of loss, love and redemption are prevalent in songs like "Une annee sans lumiere" and "In the Backseat." The album's information is even set up to look like the program from a funeral. 
Arcade Fire manages to make the somber themes that pervade their album sound hopeful and uplifting 
while still providing a vivid sense of the emotions about which they sing. 
Songs like "Rebellion (Lies)," "Crown of Love" and "Neighborhood #1 (Tunnels)" reveal the soaring choruses, diversity of instruments and building crescendos that makes Arcade Fire stand out from other bands. 
Some of thP songs arr fantastic. but others still sound a littlP rough and seem as though they might bn better suited for live performances. Even with a few weak songs, the album as a whole is still enjoyable and shows a huge amount of potential and enthusi­asm. 
"Funeral" was released in September 2004, and has slowly grown in popular­ity thanks to word of mouth and Internet downloads. While not entirely embraced by the mainstream, Arcade Fire has managed to break out and gain a loyal following. The band has even had the video for their song, "Rebellion (Lies)" appear on MTV2 and were also a featured band on the sta­tion's Web site. Fans can get more information about the band from their Web site, www.arcadefire.com, which features lyrics, photos. biogra­phical informa­
tion  and  tour  
dates.  
Arcade  Fire  

formed around marrind coupl<> Win ButiPr (gui­tar. vocals. bass guitar. keyboard) and Hegine Cha­ussagne (key­board, accor­dion, xylophone. vocals. drums) and eventually solidified its cur­rent lineup in 2004. The band grew to include Hichard Parry (guitar, percus­sion, upright bass. keyboards), Tim Kingsbury (guitar. bass). Will Butler (pr.rcussion. guitar. bass guitar). Sarah N<~ul'r.ld (violin) and .Jnrr.my Gara (gui­tar. drums). 
The band uses a widr. varir.ty of' instruments, and thr.y frequently switch playing duties while performing. They are known for their innovative use of percussion during live shows and use helmets and other unusual objects to achieve a unique sound. 
Arcade Fire has toured around the 

world. and the band was recently invit­ed by U2 to open their Novernb<~r shows in Montn~al. 
Ov1~rall, "Funeral" is much liv1~liN and rnorP optimisti(' than tlw titiP would lr.ad vou to bPliPV<'. and it r<'V<'als a grnat·dPpth of' I'Pr.ling and passion with­in tlw band. 
ThP album g<>ts bPtt<>r aftPr r<'pPatPd list<~nin.gs. and it r<'vr.als thP hug<' potential that Arcadr. FirP has !'or future success. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
THE ()BSER\1ER 
CENE
Thursday, September I, 2005 
page 15 
CD REVIEWS 
Strong sophomore album cements rapper's status 
By TAE ANDREWS 
Scene C:ririt 
Most rap songs can be sorted and placed into dil"fPrent Jeopardy-like cate­goriPs. I'll take Glorification of Drug I>Paling for 500. piPaS('. Or maybe it'll be llorniridal FirParm Hntnrprise for 200. 
Following Ttwsday's rPinasn dati', hip­hop aficionados can take "Late lll'gistration," for $9.1)9, which, despit1~ its rhronologirally-rhaiiPnged title, show!'d up right on tim!' aftl'r a sumnwr of anticipation. 
;\l"tl'r last yl'ar's n~lnasc of his· first album, "Tiw Collnge Dropout," the answl'r to the question, "Who breaks the hip-hip mold'!" became, "What is Kanye Wl'st"" 
Yes, despite being J\WOL from univer­sity this senwster, the big man on cam­pus is back with his sophomore album, "Late Hegistration." Known for his fresh approach to the rap game, West's inven­tiw bnats and quirky lyrics combine to makn him one of rap's biggest stars. 
Whiln not quite as good as "The Colh~gn Dropout," this is due more to WPst's twing a victim of his own success than any shortcomings on the part of his s1~cond album. The same cross-genre rollaborations. fresh sounds and idiosyn­cratic lyrics -basically, everything that madn his last album so great-are hack. with rww tracks fnaturing, among others, /\dam Levine of Maroon 5, H&B singer Brandy and the rapper Common. 


The eclectic essence of West is evident in the remix of his first single, "Diamonds from Sierra Leone." The track is a strange lyrical amalgamation in which he combines a guilt-ridden jewP! infatuation with a running stream of "who's-the-man" hyperbole. /\II this is v o i c !' d o v n r a s tiHl d i Iy inc rnas i n g crescendo of frenetic chimi~s and Shirley Bassny vocal sampiPS. 
In his first VPrsn, Kany1~ spits social commentary on thP human rights abuses in the South African diamond trade. The second verse is West's testament to his own staying power, as he boldly affirms the continued presence of Hoc-a-Fella Hecords as a force in the industry. 
Of course, having Jay-Z on the remix certainly helps. Jay-Z. the artist formerly known as The Best Happer /\live, shows that he is clearly restless in retirement, as he shows up on the track and steals it wi_th macho lyrics such as, "How could you falter I When you're the Hock of "Gibraltar I I had to get off the boat so I could walk on water I This ain't no tall order I This is nothin' to me I Difficult takes a day I Impossible takes a week." 
West, the self-described Louis Vuitton Don, expresses his love for his wardrobe throughout the album. His conspicuous consumerism makes it difficult at times to tell if he's rapping or reading from name-brand clothing label catalogues. 
Despite all the flashy material­ism, West keeps his feel-good vibe and tongue-in­ch£>ek humor alive as he did on "College Drop­out" to let you know that just when he starts to get too serious, he's just clown­ing, baby. 
West is a mas­ter craftsman on his productions, using the entire 
audio palette disposed to his talented fingers. The overriding musical theme of the album -his ability to pair slamming new-school beats with feel-good, oldie vibes -shines with songs such as "Gone," a track featuring Consequence and gangsta rapper Cam 'Hon and "Addiction." 
As he did on "College Dropout," West again collaborates with actor/singer Jamie Foxx on the song "Gold Digger," where Foxx showcases some of the soul­ful vocal talent he put on display in his role as Hay Charles in the 2004 film "Hay." 
A key element of hip-hop that has been missing in recent years is its emphasis on social justice through social commen­tary. West remains unafraid to use his CDs as a soapbox on which to expound his Western philosophy, as he does on "Crack Music" (featuring Tlw GamP), a song decrying the devastating nffncts of the drug trade. 

Despite his penchant for tooting his own horn, this is what makes Wrst tlw "Crown Prince of hip-hop" -his ability to temper his audio arrogance with self­depreciation via fun, stream-of-con­sciousness lyrical flow. 
All in all, "Late Registration" is a good album and a sound second effort by Kanye West, thereby proving the old adage, "Better late than never." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
Martin's lyrical sophistication drives 'X& Y' to success 
of this is found in tlw tracks "Squarn 0 11!' , " " W h i t e S h acl ows " a n d "Low. " Ilownvnr. long-tinw Coldplay fans hav!' nothing to f'rpt about. Traditional piarw pow!'r ballads, including "What If'." "llardest Part" and "Kingdom Come," an~ given tlwir fair sharn of space on this album. Songs like "Fix You," "Speed of Sound" and "/\ Messagn" rnv1~al the band's middle ground between tho two polns. 
J\ll the compositions seem to start with a little less power than they end with, and the transitions between tracks flaw­lessly balance the dichotomy of senti­ment. Coldplay's ability to write an 
album that sees through each and every song to its emotional climax -and that this formula doesn't seem repetitive or contrived -is amazing. 
What hasn't rhangPd, howPv­<'1". is Pach ttlll<''s n•liancP upon !Pad singPr Chris Martin's vocal ability. 111~ fully captures the striking beauty of each melody with the smoothest British voice and the most genuine emotion and sincerity you've heard in a long time. Not surprisingly, the band's lyrics arc as deep conceptually as the album is musi­ca.lly. 
The theme of the whole album seems to be summed up in a line from the track "Talk": ''I'm so scared about the future and I want to talk to you." 
That's Pxart!v what the listPncr wants to do. J\nd it's· l'xartlv what tlw listPrwr fePls likP Martin is doing. I lis introspPc­tive lyrics of snlf-nxamination werP writ­ten for all of us who an~ struggling to find our way through life. relationships and the search for a larger meaning (or By KFI.l.Y DUOOS 

"ll"/ll'( IJ(Il 
<:oldplay's surllllll'r ri'IPasn has alrnady familiarizl'd pop music consumnrs with two surcl'ssl"trl radio singlns. J\t this point. a IPSSI'I" band's album would lw 1•xhaustl'd of worthwhiln music having n·ll'aSPd the only good tracks on tlw alhunr. l.urkily, Coldplay's singles only comprisl' tlw tip of· tlw "X&Y" iceberg, l1•aving so many mon• rewards to be found by a willing listerwr. 
UnlikP JH·nvious dforts, the newest album is far more bPat driven. Evidence 

-

meaninglessness). 
Coldplay offers no solutions. Instead. the band simply offers tlw comfort of another human being addressing tlw issues that continue to consume tlw thoughts of contemplative people £>vnry­whern. 
Coldplay explores lon£>lirwss frPqtwntly in "X&Y." /\!though no ronrrPtl' anS\\Prs are offnrPd within tlw album's songs. !Hl!H' should b!' PXJWCtPd. 
But at !Past fans didn't turn on this album. unlikP many olh('l"s, to cosrapP tlw thoughts in tlwir IH•ads..\nd isn't that rPfrPshing'' 
Contact Kelly Duoos at kduoos@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 1, 2005 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Millar snaps homer drought to help Sox win 
Royals blank Twins in pitchers' duel; Orioles shut down Blue Jays 
Associated Press fourth with a homer to make it Perlozzo said Palmeiro, both­5-2, then Bill Mueller singled ered by knee and foot injuries, 
BOSTON -Kevin Millar hit and Gabe Kapler doubled. Alex won't return to the lineup until two homers and David Ortiz hit Cora followed with an RBI he's healthy. Palmeiro is 2-for­his fifth in five games on groundout and Johnny Damon 26 (.077) since a 10-day suspen­Wednesday night, helping the hit a sacrifice fly to make it 5-4. sion for testing positive for Boston Red Sox rally from a big Ortiz homered to lead off the steroids. deficit for the second consecu­fifth and tie the score at 5-all. It Gustavo Chacin (10-8) allowed tive night and beat the Tampa stayed that way until the sev­five runs and seven hits in Bay Devil Rays 7-6. enth, when Fossum hit Manny seven innings, dropping to 0-3 
Millar hit 43 home runs in the Ram~rez with two outs. Jesus with a 5.30 ERA in August after previous two seasons but had Colome relieved him and gave going 5-0 with a 2.97 ERA in hit only one since a two-homer up Millar's towering shot off the July. game on June 4. Still a popular soda bottles above the Green Toronto was blanked for the player in the clubhouse, the Monster to break the tie. lOth time, the most in the AL. outspoken and sometimes goofy Gibbons hit a solo shot in the tint baseman had been losing Orioles 7, Blue Jays 0 second, his 19th homer. Chris fans at Fenway Park ever since. Bruce Chen and Chris Ray Gomez walked in the third, 
But he led off the second with combined on a two-hitter, and Brian Roberts singled and a shot to tie the game at 1, then the Baltimore Orioles ended a Tejada hit his 25th homer for a broke a 5-all tie in the seventh five-game losing streak with a 4-0 lead. Gomez hit a sacrifice with a two-run drive that gave victory over the Toronto Blue fly in the seventh, and Byrnes Boston its first lead. Jays on Wednesday night. added a two-run homer off 
Tim Wakefield (14-10) Miguel Tejada, Jay Gibbons Miguel Batista in the ninth. allowed five runs on six hits and and Eric Byrnes homered for a walk, striking out five to the Orioles, who lost 10 of their Royals 1, Twins 0 improve to 13-1 in his career previous 11 games and held a The Kansas City Royals found against Tampa Bay and win for brief team meeting before the an opponent to play as bad as the sixth time in seven starts. game. them. He gave up solo homers to Julio Chen (11-8) only allowed Emil Brown singled home Lugo and Travis Lee and a Aaron Hill's infield single to first Denny Hocking with one out in three-run shot to Carl Crawford in the inning second and Corey the ninth to lead Kansas City to to fall behind 5-1 before retiring Koskie's single to center in the a victory Wednesday over in 1975. The Royals shut out relieved and struck out Matt the last 16 batters he faced. eighth. First baseman Chris Minnesota Twins, which set a opponents on 10 hits four times. Stairs, before Brown grounded 
Mike Timlin allowed Alex Gomez and Chen appeared to Twins' record by getting 13 hits Minnesota had runners at sec­a single just inside the bag at Gonzalez's sacrifice fly in the be unsure who would field Hill's in a shutout. ond and third with one out in third. ninth before earning his fourth grounder, allowing the batter to It also tied for the most hits by the ninth but pinch runner MacDougal (3-4) pitched the save. reach. a major league team in a Brent Abernathy was thrown ninth for the win, and the 
Casey Fossum (8-11) allowed Chen then retired 18 straight shutout loss since divisional out at third after Mike Royals, who had a 19-game los­six runs on seven hits and two batters until Koskie's hit. He play began in 1969, according MacDougal's pitch to Michael ing streak earlier this month, walks in 6 2-3 innings, striking struck out seven and walked to the Elias Sports Bureau. and Ryan sailed to the backstop. ended a five-game skid. out five. The Devil Rays, who one in eight innings. it was most the Royals allowed Abernathy started to come "This one's tough," said out­took a 5-0 lead off Curt Schilling Baltimore's Rafael Palmeiro without giving up a run. home, then changed his mind fielder Jacque Jones, who was before losing 7-6 on Tuesday, didn't need his earplugs: One "That's something we do -13 and tried to get back to third involved in three double plays. led 5-1 through three this time day after he inserted earplugs hits and not score," Kansas City but catcher Paul Phillips' throw "I take a lot of blame." before Boston came back for its after he was loudly booed dur­outfielder Terrence Long said beat him. The Twins' play was reminis­18th win in its last 19 games at ing his first at-bat, Palmeiro The Twins' previous record "If he knew it was going to cent of the way the Royals have Fenway. didn't play. for hits in a shutout was 12 in a bounce right back to the catch­stumbled around all season 
Doug Mirabelli led off the Orioles interim manager Sam 1-0 loss to the California Angels er, he'd have a crystal ball," while compiling a major league­Twins manager Ron Gardenhire worst 43-88 record. Their five said. "They threw a ball away wins in August were one better and it still worked out for them than the team-record low for today." any month. 
Ryan then took a called third ''I've been here three months strike. It was the second and I've seen just about every­straight game every Twins thing I needed to see," said starter hit safely. Royals manager Buddy Bell. 
"When you have 13 hits and Royals starter Mike Wood you've got no runs, there's not gave up eight hits and two many explanations for it," walks in six innings but kept the Twins manager Ron Gardenhire Twins scoreless with the help of said. "We were all over the double plays in the first, second basepaths. They even throw a and fourth. wild pitch and it bounces right With runners at first and sec­back to the catcher. ond and one out in the fourth, 
''I've seen some of the things Tif'fee grounded to first base­they've had to endure and I'm man Joe McEwing. He threw to sure they feel they finally got a second for the force out there, good break, and they did." but the throw back to first to 
Hocking singled off Matt get Tiffee was late. Jones, who Guerrier (0-3) leading off the had singled leading off the ninth, and reached second inning, tried to score from sec­when third baseman Terry ond but was cut thrown out at Tiffee misplayed a grounder by home by Wood, who had cov­Chip Ambres. Terry Mulholland ered first. 


The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Queen pillowtop mattress set. New Two 2-bdrm condos: 18041-B Bulla 2001 alum looking to rent out Turtle BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT-with warranty. $155. Can deliver. Rd. & 18027-A Bulla Rd. $975/mo. Creek townhouse MSU weekend BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. WANTED 574-231-4522. Property Management Svcs 233-(9/16& 17) $400 plus full maid 273-3911. PERSONAL 
4590. cleanup on Sunday, negotiable. Call SOCCER REFEREES needed for Rob (415)845-5445 if interested. south side elementary school local-FoR RENT Blue & Gold Homes. 2-8 bedroom, WANTED: 4-6 MSU GAs together, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do ed near Erskine Golf Course on weekend rentals, furnished, alumni Dave 248-760-1767 not go it alone. If you or someone Miami St.$35 per soccer game. Call LODGING FOR FOOTBALL owned. You design lease. Call 250-you love needs confidential support 574-291-4200. GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-7653. TICKETS or assistance. please call Sr. M.L. 
trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and NEED 2 tickets for the 9/17 ND foot-Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more 
2 season tix & parking pass or 2 for Breakfast Accommodations. Non-Furnished 1 bedroom apt. 2 miles to ball game for my nephews who information, see our bi-weekly ad in 
any home game. 574-276-8507. smoking, Private Baths, Full ND. A/C, non-smoking, no pets, WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. have never been to campus. Please THE OBSERVER. 
Breakfasts. $450/mo. Free laundry, Flexible TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. help! dreaminbig04@ yahoo.com 
lease. 289-9365. Chris Wodicka, you have inspired 
FoR SALE 2 bedroom home within 1.5 miles of us all. May your luck always be 
campus. Partially furnished with GOOD HOUSES IN GREAT I would like to purchase your Notre good and may your voice always be 
Brand new full mattress & box. Still extra room, washer/dryer, and NEIGHBORHOODS: FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. Dame football tickets. 574-289-smooth. Keep on rockin, you crazy 
in plastic. $120. Can deliver. 574-kitchen appliances. $750/month. andersonNDrentals.com or 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE 8048. fool. Keep on rockin, out here in 
876-4474. Call 574-250-8552. (574)233-9947. FOR$$: www.victory1ickets.com school. 
Thursday, September 1, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB -NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Phillies blast four homers off Pedro in win 
Hermida grand slam not enough; Pettitte dominant for Astros 
A..sociatcd Press 
NEW YOHK The Philadelphia Phillies overpow­nred Pndro Martinez and rnmairwd on top in the NL wild­card raen. 
Chase Utley hit two of Philadelphia's four homers off tlw Nnw York Mots' aen, Brett Myers pitehod seven strong innings and tho Phillios bounced back from an oarly deficit for an S-2 victory Wednesday night. 
Hyan Howard and Mike l.ioborthal also connoetecl for Philadelphia, which stopped a thrnn-gamo skid and sent New York to its fourth loss in 12 gamos. The l'hillies (71-62) lwgan the day tied with Florida atop the wild-eard standings. 
Martinez ( 13-(>) had a 2-0 cushion at stnamy Shea Stadium and a duuH:e to push the Mots alwad of Uwir NL East rivals ­but he couldn't do it. The four homo runs lw gavo up matched a eamor high, sot twice in con­sncutivo starts for Boston in .Jurw 11JIJS. MartinHz gavo up livn runs and eight hits in seven innings, dropping to 1-3 in his past sovnn starts. 
Mynrs (12-6) allowed six hits and struck out sovnn, improving to h-1 in his last 10 starts. Tie has yinldod only three runs in 14 innings at Shea this season, going 2-0 in two starts. 
One night after blowing a lead, Ugueth Urbina struck out two in a perfect eighth to pre­serve a 5-2 advantage. 
Bobby Abreu added a two-out, two-run double ofT Heath Bell in tho ninth, and Pat Burrell had an HBI single. 
Philadelphia's Kenny Lofton made two over-the-shoulder catches in deep center in the sixth, saving at least one run. 
With the score tied at 2, Lieberthal led off the seventh with his 11th home run. Utley added a two-run shot to center for No. 21 on the year and his third multihomer game this sea­son. 
Cardinals 10, Marlins 5 
Florida's Jeremy Hermida became the first player in more than a century and only second ever to hit a grand slam in his first major leaguA at-bat, con­necting in the seventh inning off the St. Louis Cardinals' AI HeyAs in the Marlins' loss Wednesday night. 
The only other playHr with a grand slam in first major league at-bat was William "Frosty Bill" Duggleby, who did it for Philadelphia at home against thA New York Giants in the sec­ond inning on April 21, 1898, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. Elias was not able to determine whether Duggleby was a pinch hitter. 
Hermida, an outfielder whose contract was purchased from Double-A Carolina earlier in the day, was just the third player to hit a slam in his first game, join­ing Duggleby and San Francisco's Bobby Bonds. Hermida batted for pitcher Brian Moehler with Florida trailing 1 0-0 and connected on the third pitch he saw in the big leagues. 
He swung at a fastball, took a ball low, then homered over the right-field wall, a drive estimat­ed at 373 feet. 
The 21-year-old Hermida moved briskly around the bases after the horner, yet after returning to the dugout and slapping hands with several delighted teammates, he did not acknowledge long, loud cheers from the sparse crowd that remained -missing the chance for his first career curtain call. 
Bonds, the father of seven­time MVP Barry Bonds, made his major league debut for San Francisco dn June 25, 1968, and homered against Los Angeles, Elias said. Bonds grounded out in the third inning at Candlestick Park, was hit by a Claude Osteen pitch in the fifth, then homered off reliever John Purdin. 
Only a few thousand people in the announced crowd of 20,656 remained to Hermida's hit. The Marlins' top pick in the 2002 amateur draft and the 11th pick overall, he remained in the game as Florida's lel't fielder to start the eighth inning. 
Astros 10, Reds 0 
Andy Pettitte allowed four hits in seven innings and Brad Ausmus drove in four runs as the Houston Astros beat the Cincinnati Hods on Wednesday night. 
Pettitte (13-9) struck out four and walked one, improving to 10-2 in 14 starts since June 20. The left-handHr lowered his EHA to 2.50, tied with Washington's John Patterson for third best in the National League. 
Jason Lane hit a two-run homer for the Astros, who remained a half-game behind Philadelphia in the NL wild-eard race. 
Brandon Claussen (9-9) lost for the Jlrst time since July 23 against Milwaukee. He had gone 5-0 in six starts sincn, tlw longest win streak by a Heels piteher this snason. 


Claussen allowed only two hits in the first four innings bnl'orn thn Astros bunched livn consne­utive hits to scorn four runs in thn fifth. 
Lance lkrkrnan led oil' with a double and Lane hit his 20th homo run for a 2-0 lead. Chris Burke and Adam Evorntt each singlnd and Ausmus drove them home with a double to right­center. 
Ausmus tried to streteh the hit to a triple and was ealled out on a dose play at third, which man­ager Phil Garner argued. 
Claussen lastnd 5 2-3 innings and allowed four runs on eight hits . 

•pl~s live st~JeM perforlrtan~es 
~'"~~ 

presented by f:'1i\, & 
~ 


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 1, 2005 
TENNIS 
Several big names advance easily at U.S. Open 
Strong wind gusts and intermittent rain mark day at the Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Heat and humidity are expected at the U.S. Open. Ditto for the airplanes that scream overhead on their way to and from nearby LaGuardia Airport. 
But a gusting, swirling wind is something else. 
"I don't think I've even prac­ticed in these conditions," fourth­seeded Kim Clijsters said Wednesday. "It was so tough out there today." 
Gusting up to 36 mph, the wind picked up anything that wasn't nailed down. Plastic bags and hats danced across the courts, and the wind played tricks with even the simplest of shots. 
The only thing that held steady was the draw. Top-seeded Maria Sharapova needed only 49 min­utes for her 6-1, 6-0 victory over Dally Randriantefy, while Clijsters notched another straight-set win -7-5, 6-0 ­over Colombia's Fabiola Zuluaga. Wimbledon winner Venus Williams beat Maria Kirilenko 6­1, 6-3. 
Lleyton Hewitt broke Albert Costa three times in the final set to close out a 6-1, 6-2, 6-1 first­round victory. Gilles Muller couldn't follow up on his stun­ning upset of Andy Roddick on Tuesday night, losing in doubles with American partner Robby Ginepri. 
"It was so windy today," Sharapova said. ''I'm really glad I had a piece of chocolate cake last night, otherwise I would have been blown away. It made me heavier." 
Two-time champ Serena Williams and French Open win­ner Rafael Nadal took the court for the evening matches. 
The first two days of the Open were steamy, with several play­ers struggling. The wind made temperatures Wednesday more pleasant, but brought a new challenge. 
"The wind was definitely a test today," Venus Williams said. "It's easy to fumble and easy to self­destruct in those kinds of condi­tions." 
Added Hewitt, "It was one match you just wanted to get under your belt, get into the tournament and get back into 
·-. 
the locker room as quickly as possible." 
Hewitt had won five of his pre­vious six meetings with Costa, but the two haven't played each other since 2002. No matter. Hewitt raced out to an early lead, dropping only two points as he took the first three games of the first set, and Costa never recov­ered. 
The 2002 French Open winner had only two break points the entire match, and couldn't con­vert either. Hewitt, on the other hand, converted seven of 11 breaks, including three in the last set. He had 23 winners to Costa's nine, and only 17 unforced errors. Costa made 35 errors, double-faulted flve times and had no aces. 
"Today was really, really diffi­cult," Costa said. "I just confmed my rhythm and he was much more confident with the wind, for sure." 
Costa has now lost in the first round at his last five Grand Slam events. He missed Wimbledon with a knee injury that required surgery, and the 30-year-old said after the match that retirement is an option. 
"I want to finish this season and then decide," he said. "If I fmish, I fmish altogether. I can't play only on clay." 
It doesn't seem to matter where Clijsters plays these days. Victories in her last two tourna­ments gave her six titles already this year, best on the WTA Tour. She improved to 51-6 with her win over Zuluaga. 
If she keeps playing this way, Clijsters might finally break through for her first Grand Slam title. 
"Even when I was injured last year, when I started playing again, you get motivated," said the Belgian, who missed the Open last year after wrist sur­gery. "It motivates you to work hard because you know that those girls, they're working every day hard to get back, to be strong. 
"I knew I had to put in twice the effort if I wanted to come back. It's not just one player. It's the whole group that keeps you motivated and hungry to play tennis." 
A day later, the Open was still buzzing about Roddick's loss. 
A champion here only two years ago, Roddick looked as if he was going to cruise to an easy victory over Muller. He was up 5­2 in the first set, and had a chance to serve it out at 5-3. Instead, Muller broke him, then held his own serve. 
Suddenly, it was Roddick on the defensive against the left­bander. 
"I just felt like the whole time, I was trying to find something as opposed to just having it," Roddick said, still looking dazed an hour after the match ended. "Twenty-four hours ago, I was really optimistic about my prospects here. I'm in a little bit of shock right now, to be honest. 
''I'd give anything to go back four hours right now." 
Heaping insult onto the sting of the loss, it was Roddick's 23rd birthday Tuesday. 
"I don't really remember a loss where I've, umm, felt this bad afterward," he said. 
Maybe somebody really did take his mojo. It was the first time Roddick had gone out in the first round since his Open debut in 2000. 
Roddick was seeded fourth and is one of the world's best on finals at a tournament in Los hard courts. Muller, meanwhile, Angeles last month, only to turn is ranked 68th, playing in his around and lose in the quarter­first Open and can, by his own finals in Washington three admission, get a little "crazy" weeks ago. during matches. He beat Nadal But he never got flustered at Wimbledon and reached the against Roddick. 


Bronze Beauty Tanning Salon 106 N. Main St. Suite 201 Mishawaka, IN 46544 574-255-5574 Downtown Mishawaka 2 Months Unlimited Starting at $40.00 20% Off Any Lotion 



Thursday, September I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Shockley can finally say Bulldogs are his team 
Tearnmates have QB's back after long wait to be pronwted to starter 
Associated Press 
ATII!o:NS. (;a. -ILl. Shoeklny SJWnt four ynars watching from till' sidPfirH', Sitting through end­Jnss nwntings, waiting for his l'harH'P to takn ovnr as Gnorgia's starting quartnrba!'k. 
Now. aftPr showing intnr­mirmbln patiPncn. tl11• monHmt is linally lwrn -and Shockley sud­dnnly fnnls likn it. srwakml up on him a litt.IP bit. 
llt•'ll probably have trouble sleeping thP night beforo Saturday's opnrwr against Boisn State. lin knows thn butt11rflins will bn swirling in his stomach wlwn lw gons out li1r tlw opening snap. I In worries about bning so pumpml up that lw overthrows his lirst pass by 20 yards. 
"In tlw past. I knew I was only going to play orw or two s11ries a garnn. Thnrn's not too much pros­surn on you wlwn it's like that," Shorklny said. "This is dill'erent. You know..twnrything is going to lw on you. 
But Shorkley's gratnful team­matns haw his back, determined to make his first -and only ­snason as tlw starter a mcmo­rablt• orw. 
'Tm playing this whole s1mson for him," safnty (;rng Blue said. "I don't want pnopl11 to look at him as tlw wason wn losn." 
Shockl11y won his tnammates' implacablt1 rnspnd by dedding to stay at (;norgia li1r his nntire eol­lngt1 cawer, nv1m though he spent most of it barking up David Cn1mw. 
Many other players would have transf(Jrred -after all, Shockley was one of the nation's highest­rated quarterbacks coming out of high school -and the thought did cross his mind. 
In the nnd. Shockley ehose to play for the Bulldogs. Or, most accuratnly, he aeeepted one sea­son as a redshirt and thn11i others as a sparingly used second­stringer behind Greene. 
'That man has my rnspect for staying here," Blue said. "fie carnd about the program. fie carnd about his tnarnmates. We're going to light for him all thn way." 
Shockley will be under intense seruliny the entire season. After all, Greene was the winningest quarterback in rm~jor-college his­tory, leading the Bulldogs to their f'irst Southeastern Conference title in 20 years and three straight Top 10 linishes. 
If the Bulldogs fail to maintain that level of success, Shockley will surely get mueh of the blame. I In got. a tastf1 of the high stan­dards he'll be expeeted to meet in the final regular-season game of 2004. 
Crnenn went to the beneh after spraining his thumb on a lirst­quarter touehdown drive against (;norgia Tech. Shockley took over and directed the Bulldogs to a 16­0 lnad at halftime. 
But he struggled after the break, and Gnorgia Teeh got back in the game with 13 straight points. llaving eornpletod only 5 of I 6 passes _:_ and getting booed by tlw home fans -Shockley went b;u:k to the beneh. 
Sorn thumb and all, Greene led tho Bulldogs to a field goal that sealnd their 19-13 vietory. 
"You try not to worry about what people are thinking," 

;,.,, cr''•<i<Wr f(~a! b:'.<!Wt'tm:y~~ ·h·· t:!;munm~~ prov~ wnh • >U••kt.• •>fthtt kt1'Cll;~~et'~ p<Cti, ~1!1 ·~ }·\~ '~·H,r,t~~tfl~KJ P'Ut'l: >*l'ld ttnlpl~, ~~· ,; e1·1cd ~hW'..>s.. ·t.hw CW.'!.:iM~!! ~'" 4l.P! ;,t·::.~t 'CX•:wc•l;;cl ~&I! TtlO:)t'dti bw­
twrf !.1Wti"""*111wl ~-the ~-t~ 
!"!~ «.';.•mw>: tH ~~qu.idat!l' tM ~kt ~'~ k, t v;;.'f'j few ye§n~ ~In$1'tw :;,,.,,.! iii.,.r .a~ t:J>J·~mmt. Tht h "•if tn tin4 a fJ-;"!<itcm~t t@ 
,.. ·•:t.iJO~.<'~~-~-~t*'('j:l ,.. ,. -:. <4'«41~~f;}."$~-~~~ f.iOO~· ,. V'-?\' l'fl: ·>~·,~~~~~ '· . •A ,~ .\;~)t·~i*~,. ~t$1~ -~··. 
"The fans will be fine if' I go out and play a good ballgarne," Shockley said. "I just don't want to do anything to lose the game. Take earn of the ball -that's the big thing -and just be consis­tent." 
There's another faetor that eould rear its ugly head. Shockley isn't the first blaek quarterback at Georgia, but he knows that some fans might view him difl(Jr­ently than they would a white QB. 
'There are people who look at you differently," Shoekley acknowledged. "Tiwre are stereotypes: you're not as smart as a white quarterback, you're not as fluent running the ommse. But that all goes out the window if I'm perlill'ming well. A'i long as we're winning, what can tlwy say'?" 

In his brief appuaranees ovur the last thmu years, Shockley has eomo across mainly as a running quarterback who provided a ehangn of pam to the slow-footl'd Greenu. 
Shockley plans to show tlwrn's a lot more to his game. 
"I don't think a lot of' pnopl11 have a rnally good sensn at all," he said. "They know I ean run, .­but that's all they see sometinws. They don't see when I throw tho ball well. Tlwy'll gnt a ehaneP to see this game. I'm going to run the ball, throw tho ball, do IWnry­thing a quarterback needs to do." 
Shoekley said. "But you want people to appreciate what you're doing." 
Those boos didn't set well with Blue. 
"The Georgia Teeh game really hurt my feelings," Blue·said. "I couldn't believe how people were talking. I dissociated myself from some people after that game. They were saying this and that about him, saying he eouldn't be a starting quarterback. 
"Lnt me tell you this: ILl. can play ft)(ltball. He's a great passer. lie's a groat runner. But people want to judge him off that one game." 
Shockley knows the best way to keep the faithful off his baek. 


OUND THE NATION 
Page 20 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJR£ SERVJCES Thursday, September 1, 2005 
Men's Soccer Top 25  
team  'o4 record  
1  Indiana  18·4-2  
2  Maryland  11·6·2  
3  Duke  18·6·0  
4  UC Santa Barbara  21·2·2  
5  St. John's  12·6·4  
6  Virginia  18·5·1  
7  Southern MethodIst  16·4·1  
8  New Mexico  17·1-2  
9  UCLA  14·4·2  
10  Wake Forest  14·5·2  
11  Virginia Commonwealth  12·6·3  
12 13  Creighton UNC Greensboro  14·4·2 19·3·1  
14  Tulsa  12·7·4  
15  Boston College  13·5·2  
16  NOTRE DAME  13·3·3  
17  Norlh Carolina  10·9~2  
18  Ohio State  12·7·2  
19  Connecticut  12·8·3  
20  California  13·4·3  
21  Santa Clara  15·6·0  
22  Did Dominion  13·6·2  
23  Penn State  10·4·8  
24  Norlhwestern  15-6-2  
25  Saint Louis  9·8·1  

prev. 
1 3 4 2 T5 T5 11 10 14 12 
1 
13 9 8 15 17 NR 16 22 18 NR 19 
T20 
RV 
NR 
Women's Soccer Top 25 
team 'o4 record prev. 
1 NOTRE DAME 24·1-1 1 
2 North Carolina 20+2 5 
3 UCLA 18·7·0 2 
4 Virginia 17-3·2 7 
5 Santa Clara 18-5-2 3 
6 Texas A&M 18·6-0 15 
7 Porlland 20·4·0 6 
8 Penn State 19·3·1 9 
9 Connecticut 18·7·1 13 
10 Ohio State 19·4-3 8 
11 Tennessee 17-5·2 T11 
12 Duke 15~8-0 T11
-13 Illinois 16·6·2 14 14 Stanford 13·6·3 T19 15 West Virginia 15·6-0 RV 16 Boston College 15·7-1 17 17 Nebraska 14·9·0 22 18 Arizona 15·6·0 25 19 Florida 16·4·3 21 20 Washington 17·5·1 10 21 Princeton 19·3·0 4 22 Wake Forest 
10·H .•.•..• !llllififlli::.~:
23 Kansas 18·5·0 24 California 11-6·3 25 Wisconsin 16·6-1 

Big East Volleyball 
team recfmi.. 
··=:;o:::m:======·===========·=·=·== 
1 St. John's 2·2 2 Villanova 2·2 3 Georgetown 1·0 4 NOTRE DAME 1-0 5 Marquette 2·1 6 Pittsburgh 2·1 7 Seton Hall 1·1 8 Rutgers 1·2 9 West Virgina 1·2 

.... 
10 Cincinnati 0·0 11 Connectictut 0·0 12 DePaul 0·1 13 Louisville 0-0 14 USF 0·0 15 Syracuse 0·0 

RV 
RV 
Big East 
record 
o~o 
0·0 
0·0 
0·0 
o-o 
0·0 
0·0 
0·0 
o~o 
0·0 
o-o 
0·0 
o-o 
0·0 
0·0 
around the dial 
MLB 

Cincinnati at Atlanta 2:05 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FooTBALL Indiana at Central Mich. 6:30 p.m., ESPN U Arizona at Utah 7 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 

U.S. Open Day 3 Coverage 10 a.m., 6 p.m. USA Network 
NFL 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts expected linebacker Kendyll Pope to make a contribution this year, but they'll have to wait at least one more year to see him on the field. 
The NFL on Wednesday suspended Pope for one year after another violation of the league's substance­abuse policy. Pope missed all but two games in 2004 because of a hip flexor injury. 
"We'll do as much as we can to help Kendyll get through this, but it's a situa­tion where he has to satisfY the league," coach Tony Dungy said. "It's not a situa­tion I've dealt with many times." 
Confidentiality rules pre­vent league officials or the Colts from divulging the substance found in Pope's urine sample. 
The Colts put Pope on the reserve-suspended list Tuesday, but the punish· ment wasn't announced until Wednesday. The Associated Press left a mes­sage seeking comment at the office of Pope's agent, George Mavrikes. 
With the suspension beginning immediately, Pope cannot practice or play with the Colts until next August. The length indicates Pope has tested positive for a banned substance, such as 

IN BRIEF 
Finley signs deal with San Antonio Spurs 
PHOENIX -Prized free agent Michael Finley has decided to sign with the San Antonio Spurs. 
Phoenix Suns president Bryan Colangelo said he was informed of the decision by Finley's agent Henry Thomas on Wednesday. 
"Of course we're disappointed, but to Michael's credit, he didn't just take the money," Colangelo said. "He talked about a chance to win, and ultimately he decided to play for the NBA champions." 
The Spurs did not confirm Finley's decision. Spokesman Cliff Puchalski said the team had no comment. Thomas did not return a message left on his cell phone. 
The 32-year-old shooting guard was courted by Miami, Phoenix, San Antonio and Minnesota. Each team sent representatives to Chicago to make a pitch to the veteran guard. Miami was considered the favorite, illegal drugs or alcohol, at least three times since leav­ing Florida State. 
Indianapolis took Pope in the fourth round of the 2004 draft. 
Colts coaches thought Pope fit well in their defense, which favors speed over brawn. Despite missing most of last season and being slowed again during training camp by a shoulder injury, the Colts liked what they were seeing from the second-year player. He had three tackles last year. 
Indianapolis projected Pope as a solid contributor who could add depth to a young linebacking corps, and Pope appeared to be making progress. 
"I thought the kid had a chance to help us," defen· sive coordinator Ron Meeks said. "I feel bad. I really hope he can come around for us." 
Teammates agreed. 
Defensive tackle Montae Reagor said Pope added a physical presence to the Colts' small linebacking group. Middle linebacker Rob Morris, a former first round pick and former starter, said Pope added quickness. 
"I saw him helping us out a lot on special teams and on the defense," Cato June said. "lie's a playmaker. Unfortunately, whatever happened, we're there for him." 
because the Heat could offer the full $5 million midlevel exception and the opportunity to play with Shaquille O'Neal. Owens pursuing a career in the music business 
ATLANTA-If Terrell Owens has another falling out with the Philadelphia Eagles, he's got his own business to fall back on. 
T.O. has muscled into Atlanta's thriv­ing R&B and hip-hop scene with Dirty South Studios. No, the five-time Pro Bowl receiver isn't getting behind the mike, a la Deion Sanders and other forgettable athletes-turned-singers. Get this, Owens prefers to stay in the background when it comes to music, providing a place where artists can lay down their own tracks. 
"It's an opportunity for artists to perfect their craft," Owens said in an interview with The Associated Press earlier this summer at his studio. "They're getting their grind oh, and I respect that. I want to help them be 

successful." Wells sorry for comments made towards Selig 
BOSTON -Boston Red Sox left-ban­der David Wells apologized Wednesday for comments he made this week criti­cizing commissioner Bud Selig for his handling of baseball's steroid problems. 
"I understand that I was wrong in my statements about these issues and for that I apologize," Wells said in a state­ment issued by the players' association after Wells met with baseball officials. "Now that I have had this opportunity to sit down and discuss the issues, I better understand the procedures that go with steroid testing." 
Wells lashed out at Selig after losing his appeal of a six-game suspension on Monday, saying the commissioner "isn't doing a thing" about steroids. The pitcher, who called Selig an "idiot" in a spring training interview with the Hartford Courant, accused Selig of retaliating for his past comments in handing out the latest suspension. 
Thursday, September I, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

PHOTOGRAPHERfThe Observer David Grimes waits for questions during freshman media day Aug. 21. He will return kicks Saturday against Pittsburgh. 
Details 
continued from page 28 
punting duties. 
Weis made it abundantly clear that Fitzpatrick is the man for the kicking jobs. 
"[The competition I wasn't close," Weis said. 
Like Fitzpatrick, junior wide receiver Chase Anastatsio will keep his 2004 role, serving as the primary kick returner. 
Wcis pointed to a trio of fac­tors that facilitated Anastasio in claiming the position. 
"There are three key ingre­Anastasio gives the Irish dients of Chase -he's smart, coaches contributed to his tough and fast," Weis said. selection. "You can't coach speed. "Chase is not afraid -he'll Either you have it hit it up in or you don't. When there," Polian you're smart and "When it's thefirst said. "lie's got you have some game, you're ball skills, and 
experience, it gives we trust him you a chance to be always nervous. " as a person. out there. His expe-We trust his rience gives him a judgment.
Brian Polian 
fighting chance to Chase was a
special teams coach
edge some of those guy that hung 
others out." 
In addition, spe­cial teams coach Brian Polian felt the sense of security 


-~ 

SA'riJRiltlY, SEI,'r. !J l'S. #II TI~XllS 
5:00 )J)J 
,JOYCI~ (~I~N'I'IUl 

I~RI~I~ AJ)MJSSION I~OR ALI.. Nn, S)J(~, ANn U(~(~ S'I'IJJ)EN'I'S 
NVrrltl'lo ~~·~~~~tM~~> NAL 
SUNitAY, SI~P1'. tl \ 7S. illliZONA S'ril'I'E 
2:00 J»)J ,JOYCE (~J~N'I'I~R 
I~IRS'I' 500 I~ANS IU~(~I~I\'E ilN IRISH J»AllKINf) SIGN A1' F.Af~U MA1'(~U 
around all 

camp, and at the end, he's still there because he does things right." 
While Anastasio will once again take care of kickoff returns, a new face-fresh­man David Grimes-will be returning punts this season. 
"I think he's got good speed -he's an agile guy," Polian said. "Obviously, he's a receiv­er, so he's got ball skills. All of those attributes will help him be a punt returner." 
While the selection of a freshman to return punts on national television in his lirst college game raised several eyebrows, Pol ian doesn't believe Grimes' inexperience will be a factor. 
"It wouldn't matter if it was David or anyone else back there, when it's the first game, you're always nervous -whether it be a fifth-year senior or a freshman," Polian said. "No matter how much pressure we put on these guys in practice, you can't recreate the pressure you feel on a game day. We try to create as many high-pressure situations as we can, but ultimately, when the lights go on, it's a little bit different. It's part of the deal." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
Congregation of Holy Cross 
Join us as our brother in Holy Cross, Nate Wills, CSC, 
Saturday, September 3, 2005 Basilica of the Sacred Heart I :30ptn 
-
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL \tJ>I 

.­
page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 1, 2005 

UBS offers talented individuals a world of opportunities. If you are interested in an exciting and rewarding career in global financial services, join us for our information session. You can meet UBS staff and learn more about life at a globai financial powerhouse. 
Business Area: Investment Banking Date: September 7, 2005 Time: 7:00PM-9:00PM Venue: Center Dining Area 
Resume Drop Due Date: September 18, 2005 Please apply online through your career services website. UBS is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in its workplace (M/F/DN). 
You&Us *UBS
Wealth IGlobal Asset IInvestment 
Management Management Bank 
I 
I 
~ 
t 
I I. 
I 
I 
Thursday, September I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
background in the game." Orr had similar praise for
Belles 

The Societyfor Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the . 
continued from page 28 
more offense, they have switched from a nat-four back on defense to a three player zone defense. The fourth defender has been shifted to midfield to put the solid mid­dle of the Belles' lineup at five players strong. 
Last year the team's strength lay in its defense, allowing more than two goals in only one her coach. 

"She is just what we need," Orr said. "She has a pretty clear plan and having her out there for a second year is great. 
"This year is going to be a lot easier because we are com­fortable with her and her style of coaching," 
Mackenzie is deseribed as being disciplirwd -an attrib­ute the Belles feel is an impor­
tant part of tlwir 
team. 


Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
Vince Lotnbardi, Jr. " Coachingfor Teamwork" Friday, September 2 12:00-1:15 p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
game. The shift for more offense will not likely  "5'etting the tone in each game is what  Thn key to vieto­ry for the players will factor into tlw  
affect the strong  we are going to  mental part of the  
defensive ten­dencies, as the  need to do."  game. They arP confident that  
midfielders will  even  if they  are  
play a large role  Carrie Orr  seored upon. they  
in support.  Belles midflelder  won't allow any  

Saint Mary's welcomes anoth­er interesting change that has not been common in recent 
years  - a  returning head  
coach.  
Before  this  season,  the  

Belles had a new head coach for the past five years. 
Coach Caryn Mackenzie will prowl the sidelines for a sec­ond year. She is described by her players to have a fire that drives them to succeed. 
"She is really a dynamic coach, always brings some real energy to practice," Culbertson said. "She is really knowledgeable and has a lot of 
pressure to lw 
lifted. 

"We are really quick and athletic," Orr said. "Setting the tone in each game is what we are going to need to do," 
The senior leadership feels strongly that they will be able to instill the ability to win in the underclassmen. 
"We are going to try and build their confidences, utilize them, and make them feel a part of the team," Culbertson said. "We are going to lead by example." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Share your space, but live on your own. 

WAL*MART" 
Get everything for your dorm room at Walmart.com and still afford tuition. ALWAYS LOW PRICES. 
~· 
Wolmart.com 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 1, 2005 
FooTBALL 
Harris family safe after Katrina hits hometown 
Irish kick returner's family OK in wake of devastating storm 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Two days before his first 

game with the Irish, former 
walk-on defensive back and 
starting kick returner 
Brandon Harris has had other 
things on his mind this week. 
The New Orleans native has 
family where Hurricane 
Katrina hit, a storm reportedly 
has claimed thousands of 
lives. But everyone is okay, 
Harris said Wednesday night, 
saying his family evacuated 
before the storm. 
''I'm not sure what the sta­

tus of our home is right now," 
Harris said. "But my parents, 
sister and grandmother are in 
Shreveport and they'll know 
pretty soon about our house." 
Harris said although he doesn't know about his house, he is most concerned with his family being all right. 
"It's on the west bank," he 

said of his house. ''I'm not 
sure what that area's like now, 
but I heard there were some 
problems with the levee sys­
tem breaking. I don't know if 
the levee broke by our house 
or what the water level is 
around there, but I'm hoping 
my house is OK. But most 
importantly my family is OK. 
My sister was telling me [it] 
may be a couple of weeks 
before they can go back." 
Harris said he will continue 

to try to keep his mind on 
preparing for Pittsburgh the 
next few days. 
"It's pretty tough," he said. 

"I just have to stay focused ­
keep my mind on what I'm 
doing." 
Dress list finalized for Saturday 
Irish head coach Charlie Weis said Wednesday that he had finalized the list of players going to Pittsburgh, filling out the 15 spots he said were open for players to earn. However, since Notre Dame is independent, the Irish can dress as many players as the coaching staff deems neces­sary. Weis said it would be about 70 for Saturday's game. 
"We've filled up the bus," 

Weis said. "Those guys knew 

CLAIRE KELLYfThe Observer Brandon Harris, from New Orleans, jogs during practice on Aug. 17. His family survived Hurricane Katrina. 
that the only way they were going to get on the bus is if the tempo was picked up. We had enough guys to go to the game without them, but we've filled the bus." 
At least five of the 15 spots are filled by freshmen, Weis said. He also said he is taking four players from the scout team after initially wanting to take two. 
"I leave some travel spots for the scout team players of the week," Weis said. "The 
chances they play in a game are very, very small. But I think if a guy goes and busts his butt all week, he deserves to travel just as much as those guys playing every down." 
Designing in advance 
Weis said he figures out what plays he is going to run before the game, although he doesn't script too much because it makes it harder to adjust to the defense. 
"I don't script 25 because I don't think you can stick to 25 plays," Weis said. "I think that if you script to 25 it doesn't give you a chance to react to what they're doing and all of a sudden it's halftime and you haven't made any adjust­ments. 
"I try to keep it to about 15. And there's times when it's not working I don't get through those 15 either." 
Under the lights one more time 

Tonight the Irish will prac­tice from 7 to 9 p.m. under the lights of Notre Dame Stadium. It will be their last practice before the season opener. 
"[Tonight's] going to be tone it down and key it up before the game," Weis said. ''I'm not out there to kill them tomor­row. I want there to be no excuses to how fresh we are." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Thursday, September I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
HURRICANE 

Storm survivors to be moved to Astrodome 
out," said William Lokey, chief
Katrina refugees will 
coordinator for FEMA The Astrodome's schedule has 
leave Superdome, travel 
benn cleared through December to Houston, Texas for housing evacuees, said Kathy Walt, a spokeswoman for 
Assndatcd Press 
Texas Gov. Hick Perry. The building no longer is the home 
Nl\W OHI.I\ANS -With tho of a professional sports team ­s i t u ati o n i n t lw s m e II y and the llouston Astros left in 2000 swldtnring Supnrdome beeom­and the dome is now used for ing nvnr morn desperate, events such as conventions, autlwritins havn found a new concfwts and high school foot­honw for tiH~ building's nearly ball games. 2!i,OOO hurricane refugens: the Phillip Triggs, 40, wasn't keen Astrodomn in llouston. on the idea of bning forced to 
Tho Federal Emergnncy Texas. Management Agency has pro­"As far as the idea of going to Vi(IPd about !iOO buses to trans­another state, no, man, this is port the refugens, and the lirst my home," he said while catch­caravan of buses was expected ing a breath of fresh air. "My to lnave for Houston on family is here. My home is gone. Thursday. The mayor said mili­For us to be going through what tary cargo planes were en route we're going through, we're just as a backup just in case the bus not ready for this." systmn is inadequate and the Cots and blankets for up to roads are too llooded. 25,000 people were being set 
"It's unsanitary, it's hot, those· up on the Astrodome's floor. pnople haven't had showers or Knowing that the people would baths in four to five days," arrive tired, frustrated and dis­Mayor Hay Nagin said heartened, shelter organizers Superdome was quickly wors­generators providing electricity people with medical needs and Wndnnsday. began planning activities that ening: the air conditioning was for the remaining lighting. the elderly from the Superdome 
But word of the move to might help take the evacuees' out, toilets were broken, and There has been no air condi­on Wednesday afternoon. They Houston came as Nagin had minds ofT their troubles, such as tempers were rising. tioning and only limited lights are not being taken to the grim news for refugees despor­free trips to museums and ''I'm ready to get away from since power went out during Astrodome. ate to SMl what is left of their amusement parks. here. Anybody in their right the hurricane Monday. The Astrodome helped put homes: "The city will not be Organizers plan to use mind would be," said David Nagin was insistent that the Houston on the map four functional for two or three Astrodome kitchens and locker Ellis, a construction worker refugees in the Superdome will decades ago. It still stands but months." rooms to keep refugees fed and who was on the ramp outside be moved out by Thursday. is dwarfed by Heliant Stadium, 
It was not immediately clear clean, but they said they realize the Superdome, escaping the "It has to be tomorrow. I don't the newly constructed home of how long the refugees will be in it won't be easy because the oppressive conditions. think they can take it," he said. the NFL's Houston Texans. Houston, 350 miles from New arena was not built to handle so The dome is still surrounded "People are walking up to me in The Astrodome opened in Orlnans. "We're buying time many people. by flooded streets, and the tears." 1965, 10 years before the until we can figure something The situation at the floodwaters are threatening the Authorities began evacuating Superdome in New Orleans. 


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 1, 2005 

Each concession stand group must hav·e at least ·two students trained *AJl training from the spring is still valid for the 2005 Football season 



Questions? .Jennifer Ra9er St.udentAdit.,ities (ljJiee j1·ager1 @nd.edu 


Hanks 
continued from page 28 
well as a member of the Soccer Buzz "elite team of the week." 
Against New Hampshire on Aug. 19, Hanks earned her first hat trick -scoring three goals in a 13-minute stretch. 
Two days later on Aug. 21, she added four more goals -her second hat trick of the season putting her one shy of the Notre Dame record -in the team's shutout 
of Vermont. include helping
"/ think from a
She also joined out Katie three other Irish transition point of Thorlakson on players to have view I've done offense. scored four goals in "[I have to] kind
pretty well. " 
a game, including of help Katie out," teammate Katie Hanks said. "I Thorlakson who Kerri Hanks mean everyone is did it in 2004 Irish forward going to mark her 
against St. John's. 
Scoring goals is no recent discovery for the Texas native. 
In two seasons at Allen High School, Hanks scored 47 goals. And while with the Dallas Texans club team, the freshman earned two USYSA Golden Boot awards. 
She was also the leading scorer on the Under-19 National team, scoring 22 goals in 30 games. 
Hanks could not be happier about how this early part of the 2005 season has gone, both from an individual point of view and also how she has worked with her teammates. 
"It's just awesome to get what I've got so far and gotten done," Hanks said. "But I couldn't have done [so well] without my team­mates. So I have to thank my teammates for everything they did for me too." 
-
Hanks is also excited to be part of such a strong team that has achieved so much already, but she realizes the added pressure that it puts on her to live up to expectations and perform well on the field. 
''I'm really excited that I came here and got to join the national championship team," Hanks said. "It also puts pressure on you to continue to do well, and hopefully repeat. 
"Its awesome but its also nerve racking as well, I still have roles to step up to." Such roles 
so as long as we 
can both work together and stuff, and with the other forwards then it will be better." 
Despite Hanks' accomplish­ments early on this season, Hanks, who joined the team last spring after training with the 
U.S. Under-19 team last fall, feels that she has adjusted well to playing with the Irish. While she still has a lot to learn, she is com­fortable with the progress she has already made in the young season. 
"I think I've adjusted pretty well, I mean obviously I still have a lot to improve on and a lot to learn but I think from a transi­tion point of view I've done pretty well," she said. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Frosh 
continued from page 28 
Besler. Only two games into their Irish careers, the trio has already made significant contributions to Clark's squad. 
In the opening exhibition game against New Mexico, Traynor entered the game in the second half and played superb defense for the remainder of the double over­time tie. His performance impressed the Irish staff to such an extent they inserted the defender into the starting 
lineup for "You ·ve got to think at intermission, Sunday's exhibi­quicker. It•s not Dike responded tion contest with with three sec­
club soccer
Michigan. ond-half goals to 
Dike also anymore. secure the state impressed in the title. season opener, Dike thinks
Bright Dike 
providing fresh that his superior
Irish forward 
legs during the two overtimes. The forward then recorded two shots on goal against the Wolverines. 
Besler did not see action against New Mexico, but entered the Michigan game at the beginning of overtime. The midfielder made the most of his opportunity, finding Ian Etherington for the game winning goal and his first col­legiate assist. 
The strong early play of these freshmen came as no surprise to Clark. The coach knew entering the year that he had a talented group of newcomers. 
Traynor starred at Francis Howell North High School in St. Charles, Mo., earning all­state honors his junior and senior year. Clark has been extremely pleased with Traynor's poise in his first two games. 
"Jack's just very calm and very cool," Clark said. "He makes good decisions with the ball. He's just a smart player." 
Like Traynor, Dike also gar­nered all-state honors in his senior year of high school at Edmond North High School in Edmond, Ok. His most impressive performance may have come in the state cham­pionship game of his junior season. With his team trailing 1-0 
size gives him a 
distinct advan­tage at the forward position. Clark agrees with the fresh­man's assessment. 
"He's fast and he's strong," Clark said. "He gives us something that maybe we haven't had up front -a big strong attacking threat." 
Not to be outdone, Besler also enters Notre Dame with a stellar resume behind him. He led Blue Valley West High School in Overland Park, Ks. to the 2005 state title and received all state honors. StudentS portS occer. com named Besler the 16th best midfielder in the nation for last year's senior class. Clark liked his strong and heady play against Michigan. 

"Matt came on and was brilliant actually in the game against Michigan," Clark said. "He played smart and sensi­ble soccer. It was great to see him get the assist on the win­ning goal." 
But the early success has not come easy for the fresh­men. Each player has had to deal with the significant jump in level of play from high school and club soccer to the collegiate game. 
"It's a whole different game," Dike said. "You've got to play faster. You've got to think quicker. It's not club soccer anymore." 
Besler echoed Dike's state­ment, saying he didn't realize how significant the adjust­ment would be. 
"Obviously everyone says it's bigger, stronger, faster, but you don't really realize it until you get up here," Besler said. 
The three players are pleased with their early accomplishments, but remain focused on team goals. The Irish coaching staff expects to receive continued strong play from the trio along with con­tributions from the four other members of the freshman class -defender Kyle Dagan, midfielder Cory Rellas and goalkeepers Andrew Quinn and Luke Seibolt. 
"If we're going to win the national championship, we are going to need eighteen players that are going to con­tribute, not just eleven," Clark said. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 1, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 


EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 31 Preschoolers? 64 His first #1 song 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Chad Brannon, 26; Jeff Hardy, 28; was "All or Richard Gere, 56, Zack Ward, 35 
1 Car that made 32 Melted glace Nothing at All" 
its debut at the Happy Birthday: This can be a great year for you if you are quick to get the 
35 Authenticate

1964 New York 65 Do florists' work ball rolling. Stop contemplating what you should do and lllke action. You'll only World's Fair 38 See 19-and have yourself to blame if you are still standing in the same place this time next
66 Infinite 58-Across 
year. Determine what you want and go after it. Your numbers are 7, 15, 22, 31, 
8 Jeer 
67 Most uptight 39,48 42 Cowboy
15 Slothfulness 68 Thirsts 
ARIES (March 21-April19): This is the perfect time to set your mind on what
43 Windy City 

16 Like a you want and go after it. You will be able to convince anyone you encounter to horseshoe transportation help you out. A creative project will tum out better than you anticipated. ***** org. DOWN TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Trouble is brewing, so deal with it before it gets 
17 Reasons for ­
out of hand.. Your stubborn attitude will make matters worse, so leave your ego 
1 Book of prayers44 Terminal abbr. 
soreness at home and be prepared to compromise. Don't take advice the wrong way. ** 45 Memo starter 2 Not picked up GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You will be intuitive today, inslinctively knowing 
18 What prisoners 
when to make your move. A romantic connection will tum out to be an asset 
may wear 3 It precedes an
47 Rarely read in more ways than one. This is not the time to sit back and let others take 
offering
messages over. **** 4 Sink pipe part CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): You may find yourself sitting in a rather precarious 21 Stir position if you have been overreacting to emotional matters at home. You may 
19 38-Across is one 
51 Stitches over 5 Leaning 
owe an apology. Don't put it off; the longer you ignore the problems, the worse
22 Sounds to skip 54 Investment 
matters will become.***

6 Astronaut's digit by options, for 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be confident and do your thing today. You will be in
short 

7 Tank top the limelight and will attract someone who can make your life easier. Change 
23 Guide 
your daily routine and you will feel rejuvenated. ***
57 Ab _(from 8 Where 
27 Country singer VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take the initiative. Get involved at whatever level 
day one) astrological
on whom "Coal you can with something that interests you, and you can make a difference.
signs meet
Miner's 58 Type of Convince someone you enjoy doing things with to join you. *** Daughter'' is 19-Across that 9 Wheezy one 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Everything will tum in your favor today if you present your ideas and do your own thing. Your professionalism will capture the 
based 38-Across is 
10 Crowd maker? interest of someone in a position to help you. Don't question your ideas. **** 29 Noted bell tower 61 Comedian's 37 Vitamin amts. 46 Gone, now 56 Posts SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let jealousy or envy be your downfall today. 
11 Rock landmark 
site shtick Focus on what you can do, not what you can't. Get back to basics and what is 
38 Construction 48 Literary wizard­
12 Computer 59 Choreographers' required to deal with your own success. ** program, briefly piece shaped in-training concerns SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be riding a high crest, but don't 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
like the last let that fool you into overspending. Love relationships are looking good, so put
49 Opposed
=-r..,....,,...,.,.,., 13 Majors in acting 
letter of the 60 Anklebones time aside to be with loved ones. You will have the discipline and the knowledge m+.,....r+.ll'l 14 Mormons, alphabet 50 Bog to make headway. ***** 61 Scoundrel CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Matters concerning money, legal issues or
initially 39 Spotless 52 "C6mo ?" 
health must be dealt with quickly. Your intuition will not lead you astray. Your 20 Awaits a chiding 40 TV hookups 53 "Are we there 62 Vein interest in others will be impressive and attract someone who will help you out. yet?," maybe ***
contents

24 Word with field 41 First name in 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): There is plenty going on behind closed doors or guilt horror 55 Dior creation 63 Cup filler today. Keep your eyes open for any secretive action. Someone may try to mislead 25 Go slowly you regarding his or her true feelings. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Anything you can do to improve your work 
-=-+.......,=+:-! 26 Wreck site For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
situation or change your position should be your intent. An opportunity is present
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
and must be taken advantllge of. Your unusual way of approaching a job or project 
28 Thing to wring 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday will draw interest. ***** 30 Worthless bit crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You are emotional, sensitive and intuitive. You are stubborn,
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
~-=+-:+:+.-:-! 33 rule 
slllnd up for your rights and you aren't afraid to follow your own path.
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
8~,;:+.,+.,;.-j 34 Revolts 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
Eugenia·s Web sites: astroadvice.comforfim, eugenialast.comfor conjidmtial consultations 
36 Back at sea solvers: nytimes.com/learnino/xwords. 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

01-\, l'f'i\ 
SO~'i S\~, 
\\oo\E.Rt=. \SN''T P.. 
FOOT~l.\.. 
UP\""E 
\-\~~E Fa~ 
A_ Fe-W 
\N E!a~S. 
\ 
~ 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RUSUY 
rJ 
1 

C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DOTUB ~ 
I I r (]
tNYWIRT 

] [] 
www.jumble.com 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


Now arrange the circled letters to 

form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

CARGO DAHLIA CLERGY 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ___________ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, September 1, 2005 
page 28 
NO WoMEN's SoccER 
Fresh and kicking 
Kerri Hanks netted 
seven goals in herfirst 
two games this year 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sporrs Ediror 

In the first two games this sea­son, Notre Dame dominated its opponents 11-1 and 6-0. Not sur­prising, considering the defend­ing national champion Irish return 13 out of 15 starters. 
What is surprising. however, is that much of that offense in the first two contests came from a player who was not a part of last year's squad. 
Freshman Kerri Hanks scored seven goals in the first two games, and because of that. she does not need to worry about being the new girl any longer, 
Then again, to those who fol­low the Irish program, that's the last thing Hanks has ever been. 
The Notre Dame forward recently was named the Big East player of the week after her weekend series in Vermont. She was also named the Soccer America player of the week, as 
see HANKS/page 26 
-

NO MEN'S SOCCER 
Frosh set the pace for Irish 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sporrs Writer 
Bright Dike appears out of place on the soccer field. Notre Dame's speedy six­foot-one inch, 195-pound freshman forward looks 
better suited for the grid­iron than 
· the pitch. "He is a horse," I r i s h c o a c h B o b by 

C I a r k Clark said. ''I'm just hoping Charlie Wcis doesn't see him. Maybe 
he'd be a linebacker. lie's a specimen." 
Even more impressive than Dike's huge frame has been his play along with his two freshman classmates­Jack Traynor and Matt 
see FROSH/page 26 
FOOTBALL 

Irish focus on the details 
Coaches predicting special teams will make impact at Pitt 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sporrs Ediror 

With all the focus on new Irish coach Charlie Weis. an offense loaded with return­ing starters and a defense ­particularly the secondary ­riddled with inexperience, special teams have been lost in the fray as the Irish get ready to kick off the season Saturday night in Pittsburgh. 
"I told everyone from the time I've gotten here how important I've felt the role of special teams were at this place," Weis said at the end of training camp. 
Leading the Irish special teams unit against the Panthers will be running back Travis Thomas. 
"The runaway choice by the coaching staff for the 

special teams captain was Travis Thomas, and he'll become a tri-captain for the first game against Pittsburgh," Weis said. "He's playing on all of our cover­age teams, he's done a great job, showed a lot of tough­ness, and I think that he exemplifies what I've been looking for in special teams players." 
With all the changes sur­rounding Notre Dame foot­ball, Weis will be sticking ,with many of last season's key contributors. 
A year after D.J. Fitzpatrick hit 11-15 field goals and posted a 41.8-yard punt average, he will once again handle the kicking and 
see DETAILS/page 21 
SMC SOCCER 

Young Belles squad looks for leadership 
Loss of seven seniors offset by welcome return of head coach 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The greatest threat most col­legiate athletic teams confront does not come from the oppos­ing sideline or bench. It comes from within. It is the loss of 
senior lead­ership and experience that comes with the end of every sea­son. 
With the departure of seven sen­


iors from Orr last year's team, the Belles must come to grips with this fact and rely on new leadership and an influx of young talent. The women will look to improve on a solid 10-6-1 record (9-6-1 in MIAA play). 
Seniors Carrie Orr. Shannon Culbertson and Maura Schoen arc set to lead the charge, joined by six key returning juniors. Underclassnwn will have to play a large role in propelling the Belles to victo­ry. 
Sophomores Sarah DuHrec and Justine Higgins will cou­ple with incoming freshman Lauren !linton, Whitney Fron and Mandy Thomson to set the pace for a new season. 
"We have a very young team. so basically we're going to have to set a whole new tone," Orr said. "The leadership is going to be spread out a lot more evenly. The underclass­men are really stepping up." 
The Belles are shifting their game-plan drastically from last year. In order to generate 
see BELLES/page 23 

en 
AL
Nl
NCAA FOOTBAll

HURRICANE 
ND FOOTBALL 
TENNIS 
1--"' w 
Kim Clijsters and
D.]. Shockley finally

Over 25,000 storm 
Irish receiver Brandon 
Boston 7
Astros 10 
takes the reins as 
other big names

Harris, a native of New 
z survivors to be moved 
Tampa Bay 6
Reds 0 
advance amidst windy
Georgia quarterback

from the Louisiana 
Orleans, says family is 
Kevin Millar hit two

Houston's Andy 
conditions at the U.S.
with the support of his 

Superdome to the 
fine but unsure about 
home runs to lead the Red

Pettitte improved to 10­
a: 
c:s5 
Open.

his house. 
Bulldog teammates. 

Houston Astrodome. 
Sox over the Devil Rays.

2 over his last 14 starts. 
~ 
page 18 
page16
page 19 

page 17
page 25 
page 24
a. =c 
en 










