
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 125 FRIDAY. APRIL 15.2005 
ND Habitat members spring into action 
chapter of Habitat for Humanity's house. Also, 10 percent of the proceeds will be donated to the Puebla, Mexico chapter of Habitat. 
"We're recognizing that some people in America really do live this way," said senior Colin Dowdell, a co­president of Notre Dame's chapter of Habitat. "We're not trying to imitate or mock them." 
Students will be writing facts about poverty and sub­standard housing on the boxes to further contribute to this visual "reminder that there's a larger need in the world," sophomore and Shack City planning team 
see ACTION/page 6 
College's ring has rich tradition 

By KATIE WAGNER 
News Writer 
Whether they're slamming a volleyball into the mud, sleeping. in a cardboard box or painting a house, Notre Dame students are living out Habitat for Humanity's "Act! Speak! Build!" advocacy week. 
The highlight of this week is "Shack City," a gathering of over 100 students on South Quad Saturday night. The event involves students spending the night sleeping in large cardboard boxes in order to increase awareness of the issue of substandard housing, as well as to raise money for the Notre Dame 
By ANGELA SAOUD Senior Staff Writer 
Class of 2003 graduate Shannon Brewer still feels con­nected to the Saint Mary's cam­pus when she looks at her right hand. On her middle finger she wears her class ring -the one familiar to Saint Mary's gradu­ates for more than half a centu­ry. 
"There is such a tradition, such meaning behind this ring for anyone who wears it," Brewer said. "It sets Saint Mary's women apart from oth­ers, and that's something I haven't really seen anywhere else. I just feel connected to the campus when I wear it." 
And she is not alone. Balfour company salesman for Saint Mary's Jim Bell estimates that nearly 150 to 200 rings have bmm sold yearly for the 37 years he has been the Saint Mary's representative. Rings are also sold by the Jostens company, but the Balfour company's design was in fact the original. 
"The first class I sold rings to was the class of 1968," Bell said. "Back then we used to sell through the class officers, not through the bookstore like we do now. This has become part of the Saint Mary's tradition." 
History 

While Balfour has been selling rings to the College since at least the 1950s, the current ring design has been in place since 1973. 
"Originally, the seal and the words 'Spes Unica' were the only things on the ring's sur­face," Bell said. "We later added the words Saint Mary's of Notre Dame. But in 1973 when the two schools decided not to merge, 
see RINGS/page 6 
SAINT 1\llARY'S CLASS RING 
Interest in SUB events varies 
By JARRETT LANTZ News Writer 
South Bend has long lacked a venue for pop stars, a multitude of activities for students and the essence of a true college to\\111, but Notre Dame's Student Union Board and Leg{mds nightclub are working hard to show students that a good time can be had right here on campus. Students, how­ever, difl'er over how well these events cater to their needs and tastes. 
This past year, Legends and SUB have each had record-break­ing attendance, stemming from their inclusion dmore on-campus events. Both SUB and Legends provide students with several activities on various nights of the 
sec SUB/page 8 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Tryouts begin for 

new Irish mascot 
Six final leprechaun candidates to face off 
By PETER LEAHY News Writer 
Next fall will be the dawn of the Charlie Weis era for Notre Dame football and the beginning of the post-Chris Thomas era for Notre Dame men's basketball. There will also be another important change in the world of Irish sports -a new lep­rechaun. 
Tryouts for the prestigious and highly-scrutinized position will take place today at 6 p.m. in the Pit of the Joyce Center. Students are welcome to enter through Gate 2 and watch the rigorous proceedings to see who their new mascot will be. 
IntervieWs have been conduct­ed for the past few weeks in order to narrow the list of can­didates. Of the original 14 who strove for the magical pot of gold that is the position of lep­rechaun at Notre Dame, only six remain going into today's try­outs. 
When all is said and done, just two official leprechauns will remain, as has been the custom. 

The sel.ection process will con­tain physical as well as mental tests, cheerleading coach Jo Minton said. A panel of nine people made up of members from Student Activities, Academic Services, the Alumni Office, the Athletic Department Compliance Department, the 
see MASCOTIpage 4 


"I 
The Open Boo~ { 
>}'lnbolize! Chrut.ian. 
Edut::acioo. 
The two Ancb_. are cz<»Kd tofocm kttu Qli, the Cbcin, mel tbt mum oftbt Vutue d Hope. 
The Cross, 
~ntnt ci ul:v..tioo. ~the~ ~)mbol tithe te~ 
GRAHAM EBETSCH/ Observer Graphic 


2005 football Shirt will be unveiled with Weis 
By TRICIA de GROOT News Writer 
It's only spring, but the begin­
ning of a new football era is 
already in the air. The 2005 sea­
son is full of promise with new 
head coach Charlie W!'is, and to 
start ofT the season for fans, it is 
ah.wst time for the release of the 
new Shirt. 
The process for selection 
began in November with the sub­
mission of between 15 and 20 
shirt designs. The president of 
this year's The Shirt Project, 
Katie Fox, narrowed these 
entries down to a few finalists 

and asked them to resubmit . modified designs. 
"One of the things most people don't know about The Shirt is how intensive the design modifi­cation process is," Fox said. "We don't seleet a design. We select a designer." 
Junior David Hedenbaugh was chosen as this year's designer, and he and Fox have worked and reworked The Shirt before submitting the finished shirt design to the vendor. 
While Fox was unable to release any details about this year's Shirt design, it will be unveiled at a ceremony at noon on April 22 at the Hammes Bookstore. Fox did say, though, that Coach Weis will be speaking 
see SHIRT/page 4 


Friday, April 15, 2005 

page 2 The Observer• PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE SAINT MARY'S CLASS RING?
INSIDE COLUMN 
Wherever 


life takes you... 







Katie Larson  Maureen Langazel  Sarah Brown  Sarah Robinson  Jolee Hughes  
senior  freshman  senior  freshman  freshman  
LeMans  LeMans  Anunciata  LeMans  LeMans  
'"/ think it's  '"/ think it's  "It's one ofmy  "They're  . '"Eh, they're  
classy!"  absolutely , gorgeous.  favorite possessions. It  original, very , unzque.  alright. I'm not getting one.··  

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
My experience in life has taught me several life lessons to live by. With the new arrival of spring, and season of change and beginning of new life, we all realize the immi­nence of new sit­uations and 
Brad Carmean 
change in our own lives. I urge 
Photographer
you to reflect on these lessons. 
The people around you, whether it's friends, family or classmates, are what give life and its journey meaning. They make the journey worth it. People enrich experiences that you couldn't experience by yourself. Great friends help you take life where you couldn't go alone. 

Life could take you on a smooth ride or a rough one, across the sea, close to home or six feet under. You just don't know where it will take you. So just work hard on what you can control and don't worry about what you can't. The fact that you don't know where you will be down the road is why you need to enjoy everything you can now, no regrets. 
Regrets are a void that can't be filled. It could be not trying to talk to that attractive person sitting next to you in class, or not taking advantage of an opportunity because of the fear of failure. Don't let life pass you by. 
We also get so wrapped up in our goals trying to get to where we want to be ihat we don't get to enjoy the trip and before you know it, game over. What if your plans or goals didn't turn out how you want­ed them to? 
Enjoy the simple pleasures of life, the smell of freshly cut grass, walks, the sun on your face, hold­ing hands, or a simple smile from someone. We need to stop and enjoy these types of gifts that God has given us that are overlooked everyday. You'll miss those simple things when they're gone. 
Learn not to dwell on the past, learn from it, and then let it go. You can't move forward in life until you have. When you are dwelling on something you are missing everything that is going on right in front of you. Life is calling you for­ward. Keep your head up and keep moving. 
Wherever life takes you remem­ber that it's not what you do or how much money you make but who you are and what you stand for. It's about the people you spend time with and great opportunities like meeting someone in the laun­dry room, that is now a great friend, or the simple pleasures like getting excited because someone has the same area code as you. 
Enjoy as much as you can, think positively, and smile throughout life. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Brad Carmean at bcarmean@hcc-nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
0:: 
LIJ :::a::: 
!ci 
LIJ 

~ 
...1 
<
(.) 

0

.... HIGH 65 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH LOW 41 LOW LOW LOW LOW LOW 
Atlanta 69 I 45 Boston 48 I 36 Chicago 65 I 43 Denver 59 I 44 Houston 77 I 57 Los Angeles 75 I 56 Minneapolis 71 1 50 New York 56/ 40 Philadelphia 58 I 37 Phoenix 91 I 65 Seattle 54 I 49 St. Louis 72 I 48 Tampa 75 I 54 Washington 58 1 38 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

symbolizes my Saint Mary's experience.'' 

IN BRIEF 
The Mike Peterson Show, Nbtv's late-night show, will hold its Year-End Spectacular at 7 p.m. tonight in Washington Hall. Guests include voice of the Fighting Irish Sgt. Tim McCarthy, as well as per­formances by musical guest 
Da  Natural  and  Humor  
Artists  of Notre  Dame.  
Tickets  are  free  at  the  

LaFortune Box Office. 
A multi-cultural Eucharistic Procession will be held Saturday. Mass in Sacred Heart Crypt will begin at 3 p.m., and the pro­cession will leave from the Crypt at 4. Benediction with the Blessed Sacrament will be celebrated according to Filipino, Latino and tradi­tional customs. During the celebration, Pope John Paul II will be remembered in a special way. 
Four bands will play a Punk vs. Poverty benefit concert at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Saturday. The money will go to the Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign. 
The Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination [CARE] will be holding a film festival Saturday from 12 p.m. to 5 at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. They will be showing "The Accused" and "Body Shots," followed by a discussion panel. The event is free and open to the pub­lic. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
OFFBEAT 
Man to defend Cow Chip Throwing Title 
BEAVER, Okla. -Fire Chief James Pratt returns Saturday to defend his title as champion of the World Champion Cow Chip Throwing Contest. People from across the country and from some foreign countries will be on hand for the 36th annual competition. 
About 150 people usually CQmpete in the women's, men's, VIP and team compe­titions. Tossing of the chips ­officially recognized as "a piece of dried bovine dung" -starts at 1:30 p.m. 
Contestants will choose from about 230 cow chips which are "grown locally," said Gwen Schlehofer, secre­tary of the Beaver County Chamber of Commerce. 

Each contestant gets two throws, with the longest dis­tance winning. 
Pratt, who also is the town foreman, says he doesn't practice, but does take care selecting his chips. He throws with an overhand, baseball­like motion. 
Accused robber says he was joking 
CHALMETTE, La. -A man wearing a hooded sweat shirt and a handker­chief over his face entered an all-night diner through a rear door carrying what appeared to be a gun, announced a robbery, then said he was only joking when an employee quickly recognized him. The female employee called Chad Caron, 22, by his first name, authorities said. 
Caron told her to relax, then removed his handker­chief and hood and said he was only kidding. He said the gun was a toy, then sat down and stayed for a while and talked to the employee, a St. Bernard Parish Sheriff's report said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 









Friday, April 15, 2005 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 


Group approves chairperson 
By PAUL SPADAFORA 
News Wrirer 
In the final Graduate Student Union meeting of the 2004-2005 academic year, the GSU approved a constitutional amendment and proposed new graduate student benefits, in addition to reviewing the year's big events. 
The GSU voted 9-2 to approve a constitutional amendment that adds a new committee chair to the GSU. Outgoing GSU president John Young said the External Affairs chair will represent the GSU in two distinct ways. 
"It's a two-pronged office," Young said. "One is to attend to external issues that are important to us . . . the office will be a liaison to the National Association for Graduate and Professional Students (NAGS). The second part is community outreach: it's very vaguely described for a purpose. It's up to the discretion of the chair." 
The GSU president also talked about upcoming legis­lation in Congress that will impact graduate student interests. Young especially focused on the Higher Education Act, and the impact it will have. 
''The Higher Education Act, under title IV, states that students that take out 
loans can consolidate them at a fixed interest rate. [This legislationl needs to be renewed periodically by Congress," Young said. "The current political climate is such that there is strong motivation in Congress to not renew the act." 
Young said the GSU will continue to aid the NAGS in the group's lobbying efforts in Congress. 
The outgoing GSU admin­istration also reviewed the year's significant events, and evaluated the union's goals for the future. Among the major events of the year mentioned were the GUS parking survey and health insurance vote. The GSU parking survey was conduct­ed for two months in the 2004 fall semester. "According to the students, approximately 75 percent of graduate students are dis­satisfied or extremely dissat­isfied with parking," Young said. 
The GSU will be working with the ad hoc parking committee in the next year to arrange a parking situa­tion that meets the needs of the graduate students. 
The GSU also reviewed the health insurance issues of the year. Outgoing health insurance chair Erica Pirnie cautioned that while the cur­rent health insurance policy for the upcoming year will retain all benefits with an. 
added increase in premiums, the University may soon be unwilling to continue with­out cutting benefits. 
"Next year during negotia­tions, we may have to start reducing some benefits to keep the premium increases below 18 percent annually." Pirnie said. 
In closing, the outgoing GSU president and vice pres­idents outlined their hopes for next year's administra­tion. 
Amanda Matthews, co-vice president, said she would like to see more graduate student representation on the Faculty Senate. 
"We need to represent the function of graduate stu­dents as teachers," Matthews said. 
Young said the goals of the GSU have changed. 
"Not only are we a social organization, but we are now a service organization," he said. "On the whole, the outlook for the GSU is extremely positive." 
After the formal end of the school year, the current GSU administration's term will end. President-elect Misty Schieberle and co-vice presi­dent-elects Amanda Matthew sand Tim Schoenharl will take office after May 6. 
Contact Paul Spadafora at pspadafo@nd.edu 


Junior moms will spend weekend at Saint Mary's 
By ERICA RANGEL News Wrirer 
As another year comes to an end 
and the stress of finals week nears, 
Saint Mary's juniors will spend this 
weekend \\lith someone they love. 
A tradition since the early 1980s, 
the College's annual Junior Moms' 
Weekend is an opportunity for jun­
ior women to spend quality time 
with their mothers on campus and 
around South Bend. 
The four members of the Junior 
Moms committee began planning 
the event last April and have stuffed 
the two days chock-full of activities. 
On Friday night, the new Student 
Center will serve as the backdrop 
for a wine and cheese reception for 
which 335 people have signed up. 
The event will feature a silent auc­
tion with many items from local 
businesses to gift baskets made by 
the juniors and their moms. 
Junior Mom's Weekend chair 
Angela Rizzo said she is thrilled to 
have the reception in the new "facili­
ty. 
"I was very excited that we had 
the option of having an event in the ·new Student Center," Rizzo said. "The room is beautifully equipped with new furniture and a fireplace. It's a great chance to show our 
moms the new Student Center." 
A dinner reception will be held 
Saturday night at the Century 
Center in South Bend. At the recep­
tion, 350 guests will view a slide 
show of pictures submitted by jun­
iors of themselves with their moms and friends. 
"I think the slide show will be so 

fun to watch," junior Elizabeth Voss 
said. "I Jove looking at old pictures 
and guessing who is who." 
An essay contest-entitled "Can you "Belle"ieve this is my mom?" ­produced five finalists who will read their essays at the dinner. 
All of the mothers will receive a book of the essays submitted. The mothers will also receive a dispos­able camera and refrigerator mag­net picture frame as souvenirs from the weekend. 
Other optional events for mothers and daughters include a Yoga/Pilates class, Student Center and Opus Hall tours, spa treatment.,, the on-campus production of "Cinderella" and "Mamma Mia" at the Morris Performing Arts Center. 
"My mom and I are really looking forward to going to the spa togeth­er," junior Megan Martin said. "It's one of our favorite activities." 
The weekend will close with a mass Sunday morning at the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
"Forever my mother, always my friend" will serve as the theme for the weekend. For many Saint Mary's students, this will be a chance to introduce their college friends to the friend they've had since birth. 
''I'm excited for my mom to fmally meet the friends I've made over the past few years and to just have a good time with everybody," junior Talia Matury-Vacaro said. 
Contact Erica Rangel at rang4716@saintmarys.edu 



Monk's'Farewell Mass 
Sunday, April 17th 
9:00 p.m. at the JACC 
All students are invited to attend "Monk's Farewell Mass." Mass will be followed by a reception in honor of Fr. Malloy in the JACC Monogram Room, featuring: ,._,Live performance by the Chicago band MAGGIE SPEAKS,._, ,.._,Fr. Malloy will be on hand to greet students,._, ~reat food,._, 
Come celebrate with Monk and thank him for 18 years of service to the Student Body of the University of Notre Dan1e. 

Friday, April 15, 2005

"The Shirt Project is and always the 15th anniversary of The Shirt, by entertainment including a port for the Notre Dame commu­has been a firm supporter of Fox said she is hoping for an even band, inflatables, giveaways and nity," said Fox. 
Shirt 
Notre Dame football, and I per­bigger event this year. The unveil­concessions available for sale. The Proceeds from the sales go to 
sonally am looking forward to an ing ceremony will be the first Shirt will also go on sale at this student government as well as
continued from page 1 
upcoming season of new leader­opportunity for students, alumni time at a special price of $11 for several scholarships and charities. at the ceremony to share some ship and new opportunity," Fox and supporters to see and pur­students. thoughts about the upcoming sea­said. chase next year's Shirt. "We're hoping for another big Contact Tricia de Groot at 
son. Even though last year marked The ceremony will be followed year of sales to provide more sup-pdegroot@nd.edu 
ers receive. After one full year, the leprechaun receives a cus­
Mascot 
tom-made suit and after two, he continued from page 1 is eligible to receive a mono­
gram. Of course, along with the 
material gains comes the pres­President's Office, the Men's tige, exposure and community Basketball Office, Student and public interaction that Development, a "super-fan" comes with the job, Minton from campus and a past lep­added. rechaun -as well as the cheer­The leprechaun is and will leading coaching staff -will remain a figure in the public observe the try-eye. He travels outs. with the cheer 
Each candidate squad to competi­
..I look for someone
individually per­tions for men's
that has a genuine
forms an opening and women's soc­to a pep rally, passion for Notre cer, volleyball, reacts to one men's and
Dame and its 
game situation, women's basket­
·sports teams. ,,
simulates one ball and football. community visit According to situation and then Jo Minton Minton, the is drilled with cheerleaders ­
cheerleading coach 
questions by a and especially the local media per-leprechaun -are sonality. For the finale of the the embodiment of the Notre physical tests, the six candidates Dame spirit. will come to the floor to do push­"As ambassadors of our great ups and the Irish Jig. University, the cheerleaders and 
After these tests, the contest­leprechaun bring Notre Dame ants will be subjected to individ­closer to the places we visit ­ual interviews by the panel in a we go to schools, community conference room above Gate 3. centers, hospitals and also do 
Minton said the results of the pep rallies and of course the process will be posted Friday games," she said. "The lep­night and that there is still hope rechaun, wearing the 'green for those that do suit,' becomes the not make lep­spokesperson for 
rechaun -tryouts ..The leprechaun, the cheer team in 
for cheerleaders wearing the ·green front of crowds are Saturday when we put on
suit,· becomes the 
morning at 8:30 rallies or events ­
a.m. spokesperson for starting cheers Once selections the cheer team ... •• and leading the 
are made, the lep­way." rechaun is treated The coach !lso
Jo Minton
much like any stu­said that more dent athlete. cheerleading coach than anything, "The leprechaun enthusiasm and and cheerleaders excitement are are regarded as athletes and are essential to a Notre Dame lep­subject to the same, if not high­rechaun. er, standards of conduct and "I look for someone that has a academics as varsity athletes," genuine passion for Notre Dame Minton said. and its sports teams, someone However, along with this who embodies the spirit of Notre responsibility come the perks Dame and its traditions," Minton Notre Dame athletes enjoy, said. including great seats at sporting events and the Adidas practice Contact Peter Leahy at clothes and shoes the cheerlead-pleahy@nd.edu 
A.B.H. SELF LOCK STORAGE •Gated facility/individually alarmed/security cameras 
•5x5 thru lOxlO units available 
•Student specials 
4 mos. For the price of 3 
•Located in Mishawaka 
20-25 mins. from campus 574-255-5625 
., 
ATTENTION: 

JUNIORS Interested in a 
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION GRADUATE RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP 
The NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program recognizes and supports individuals in the earliest stages of their graduate study in the mathematical~ physical, biological~ engineering, and behavioral and social sciences. 
The anticipated funding amount is $40~500 annually for a maximum of three years usable over a five-year period. 
. 

To learn more, come to an 
INFORMATION MEETING . 
Monday, April 18, 5:00 pm . in Room 119 O'Shaughnessy 
Or contact the Fellowships Office 103 0'Shaughnessy felfows@nd.edu 
L ... 
Pi~U~~ ~~~rselfln, ~o~~~····;,·•h.¥41•Ar.,,;o +;.;.. 
degre~ while livinj i~jhe . . ..· . the EternalCity. one ofthe m()st historicand rotrural <:!ties in theworld; · · 
St. John's l1f1iversltY~;the onlyacqe<Jited ~metican univerSity offering you this unique opp<>rtunity. rnakes it p()Ssible fur you to complete 
..... youfen~ire degree hi Rome, wh~ther yo1.,1 are interested in pursuing:1 im M.s:A.. degree or an M.A. degree . 

..-.. : .:~::·· ·...:::· 

Master of Business Administration 
Accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (www.aacsb.edu) 
• 
International Business 

• 
International Finance 


• 
Marketing Management 


.., 
Master of Arts in Government and Politics 
Accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education (www.msache.org) 
• International Relations 

Rome Campus Contact Information: Via di Santa Maria Mediatrice, 24-00165 Rome, Italy U.S. Ph. (212) 815-9216 Ext. 2 E-mail: info11 @stjohns.edu Website: www.stjohns.edu/rome 
55361 


Friday, April 15, 2005 Co1\1PILED FR01\1 Tl·-IE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Russian shuttle begins space flight 
BAIKONUH, Kazakhstan -A Soyuz-FG rocket lifted off from Russia's base at the Baikonur Cosmodrome at sunrise Friday, launching two astronauts and a cosmonaut strapped into a crammed space capsule on a two-day journey to the international space station. 
Russian cosmonaut Sergei Krikalev and American John Phillips were headed for a six-month stay on the ISS, while their col­league from the European Space Agency, Italian Roberto Vittori, was due to return to Earth in 10 days with the current sta­tion crew. 
Jets of fire and billows of smoke accom­panied the liftoff, which was being moni­tored at Russian Mission Control outside Moscow. The three-stage rocket system was to bring the Soyuz to a speed of 
13.420 mph within 7 1/2 minutes of the launch. 
A main task for the new crew will be welcoming a U.S. space shuttle to the sta­tion after a two-year absence. 
China court bans torture as evidence 
SHANGHAI -A provincial appeals court has issued what it says is China's first rul­ing that confessions or evidence obtained by torture, trickery and coercion can't be used in court, a government Web site reported Thursday. 
Defense lawyers welcomed the ruling as a sign that Chinese courts might be trying to put an end to police torture. But they said it will be merely symbolic without legal changes allowing defendants to remain silent and to be told they are entitled to lawyers. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Teens convicted of killing couple 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ga. -A 15-year-old girl and her ex-girlfriend pleaded guilty Thursday to stabbing her grandparents to death last summer so the young couple could be together. 
Holly Harvey told the judge that while she was knifing her 73-year-old grand­mother, "my eyes were closed the whole time." 
Harvey pleaded guilty to two counts of malice murder and was sentenced to two consecutive life sentences. She will not be eligible for parole for 20 years. Sandy Ketchum, 16, was sentenced to three life terms, to be served concurrently. 
Police search for missing girl 
RUSKIN, Fla. -Authorities investigating the weekend disappearance of a 13-year­old girl from her family's mobile home questioned a convicted sex offender who once had a relationship with her mother, officials said. 
Volunteers continued searching Thursday for Sarah Michelle Lunde, who has a trou­bled past and has run a way before, Hillsborough County Sheriff's David Gee said. But she has usually returned after a few hours, and officials don't believe this is "a typical runaway," he said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Bennett to headline Jazz festival 
INDIANAPOLIS -Grammy winner Tony Bennett and trombone great Slide Hampton will headline the Indy Jazz Fest June 17-19, festival organizers announced Thursday. 
Bennet(, 78, will be joined at the festival by the long-running R & B group The Commodores, the vocal group Manhattan Transfer, saxophonist Pookie Johnson and others. 
This year's festival will differ from previous ones because the artists will perform one at a time, and all performances will take place on two stages at the White River State Park's Military Park. In past events, the lawn of IUPUI's library was also used. 






10,000 federal fugitives caught 
U.S. Marshals Service leads largest coordinated government crackdown in history 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -More than 10,000 fugitives want­ed for murder, rape,. child abuse and other crimes have been arrested in the largest coordinated crack­down by federal, state and local law enforcement offi­cials in history. 
The number of arrests during the weeklong effort was 10 times the average for such a period, accord­ing to the U.S. Marshals Service, which led the nationwide dragnet timed to coincide with National Victims Rights Week. 
At the same time, howev­er, those arrests represent just one percent of the one­million fugitives in the FBI's national database, accord­ing to the Marshals Service. 
More than 150 of those nabbed April 4-10 were wanted for murder, 550 were sought on rape or sexual assault charges and more than 600 had out­standing arrest warrants for armed robbery, federal officials said Thursday. 

Among those captured were 150 gang members and 100 unregistered sex offenders, said Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, who held a news confer­ence with U.S. Marshals Service Director Ben Reyna to announce the results of Dallas police for allegedly violent crimes. cused the FBI's mission "Operation Falcon" -an killing a man by shooting "We know from history -toward stopping terrorism acronym for Federal And him five times after leaving and from the bitter experi­in the wake of the Sept. 11, Local Cops Organized a drug house on Feb. 13, ences of far too many vic­2001, attacks, said Nationally. and Marcel Baldwin, 21, of tims -that a fugitive with Marshals Service 
Jose Rivera-Sanchez was Atlanta, who was found a rap sheet is more desper­spokesman David Turner, among the fugitives who beneath a trap door in his ate, more predatory, and noting that the agency now had been on the run for kitchen. He was wanted on more likely to commit the has five permanent region­years, living in Waterbury, charges of assault and sex­crimes that plague citizens al task forces to search for Conn., until his arrest last ual offense against a child. and communities," fugitives. week, 11 years after tun­Nathan T. Speights, 28, of Gonzales said at the news The Marshals Service neling out of a prison in Syracuse, N.Y., was picked conference spent $900,000 on the Bayamon, Puerto Rico. He up in Baltimore on Sunday The number of fugitives weeklong exercise, most of had been serving a 37 -year an hour after a warrant caught was at 10,472 it to pay overtime to loeal sentence for attempted was issued for him in eon­Thursday, but officials said and state police. More than murder, assault and rob­nection with the April 3 that could change as local 3,000 officers from 960 bery when he and nine killing of Mark Sardella, police finish processing federal, state and local law other inmates escaped. One 26, outside a private heavy caseloads from the enforcement agencies took remains at large, Marshals motorcycle club in past week. part. Service spokesman Manuel Syracuse. Congress gave the "Our goal was to find out Varela said. Gonzales said more than Marshals Service more what impact we'd have in a Others arrested included 70 percent of those picked money and authority to go nationwide effort," Reyna 
. Eddie Kelly, 24, wanted by up had prior arrests for after fugitives when it refo-said. 

TURKEY 

Turkish troops kill Kurdish rebels 
the clash 25 miles from. the Iraq operation was still going on and 
Associated Press 

border between the town of Turkish troops had captured 19 
Pervari in Siirt province and Eruh Russian-made AK-4 7 assault rifles, 
ANKARA -Turkish troops in Sirnak province, the governor's 54 grenades, two machine guns, backed by attack helicopters killed office in Sirnak said in a state­mines, plastic explosives and thou­21 Kurdish rebels near the Iraqi ment. The area is in southeast sands of rounds of ammunition. border overnight in the biggest Turkey. Turkey is home to an estimated clash since the rebels declared a Several dozen rebels crossed the 12 million Kurds, with half of them unilateral truce more than five border from Iraq on Tuesday, an living in the southeast. Turkish years ago, officials said Thursday. intelligence official said on condi­intelligence sources estimate that 
The Turkish military has intensi­tion of anonymity. some 4,500 Kurdish rebels are fied anti-rebel operations following On Thursday, some 600 Turkish holed up in northern Iraq, while a intelligence reports that hundreds soldiers and hundreds of village few hundred reportedly operate in of rebels had infiltrated Turkey guards battled the rebel group. southeastern Turkey. from Iraq, a local military official The soldiers were backed by U.S.­The rebels declared an end to a said on condition of anonymity. made Cobra attack helicopters, five-year unilateral truce in June, 
Three Turkish soldiers and a vil­military officials said. saying Turkey had not reciprocat­lage guardsman also were killed in The govern<:~r's office said the ed to the cease-fire 

Ring 
continued from page I 
we changed the logo to Saint Mary's, Notre Dame to show its independence from the University." 
The current ring presenta­tion was created by Bell. While the seal had always been a part of it, he added to the pres­entation pending what students and faculty wanted to see. While the ring has varied over the years, the parts of the ring have remained the same for the past 
30-plus years. ..This is a ring that The center of And as the cam­is recognized the ring, and by pus and the peo­far the largest
wherever
ple on it have image of the
people go.,, 
changed, Bell said surface, is the the designs and French Cross. styles of the rings Jim Bell Crisscrossing have changed the French
ring representative 
with the needs Cross are two 
women here really like the rings," Bell said. "At other col­leg<'s, a ring may not seem so important, but it has come to symbolize part of the Saint Mary's experience here. This is a ring that is recognized wher­ever people go." 
Symbols 
Each ring is individually crafted with a variety of com­ponents, making it unique to Saint Mary's, Bell said. 
The top of the ring consists of the College Seal, which was adopted from the seal of the 
Sisters of the 
Holy Cniss. 

and wants of the Saint Mary's community. 
"We used to only se\1 the two sizes, the small and the large," he said. "But in the early 1980s, women started wearing the ring on their pinkie finger, so they asked if we could sell a smaller version as well." 
Ring prices range anywhere from $250 up to $600 or more, depending on the size of the diamond in the center and the karats of gold purchased. 
Most rings are sold at Senior Dad's weekend, Sophomore Parents weekend and Junior Mom's weekend, Bell said. 
Bell believes the ring is so popular because of the culture and history of the College. 
"This ring and this school are unique in the sense that the 
anchors, which meet to form the Greek letter Chi -the monogram of Christ, whh:h stands for virtue of hope. 
In the top quarters of the ring sit two fleurs-de-lis, repre­senting the French origin of the Sisters. 
The words "Spes Unica" emblazoned on the bottom of the ring stand for "One Hope," again referring to the Cross of Christ. 
The rings also come with the option of having a small dia­mond or an open book in the center of the ring. 
The Tradition 
Alumni Jennifer Jermano Miller, class of 1993, said her ring has simply become a part of who she is. 
"I never take off my Saint Mary's ring, just like I never take off my wedding rings," Miller said. "I truly loved every moment I spent at Saint Mary's -the education was invalu­able; the friendships I made were lasting. I hold Saint Mary's very close to my heart and I wear my ring as a symbol of lasting friendships. the won­derful education and the rich tradition lto which) only a Saint Mary's woman can relate." 
Class of 1979 alumna Vickie Hichardson said even through she no longer wears her ring, she believes it is special because her memories of Saint Mary's are so special. 
"The ring is a symbol of the wonderful time I had there," Richardson said. "My ring sits in my jewelry box, but I do not wear it. I don't even rem em her when I stopped wearing it, but I knew I would never part with it. It's part of my tradition, and every woman who wears the ring's tradition." 
As for Brewer and her ring, she says she will wear it for the rest ofher life. 
"It signifies important accomplishments in my life so that I know belong to the great sorority of alums and I remem­ber my college experience with pride and a lot of nostalgia whenever I look at it," Brewer said. 'There are a lot of people who have so much passion about this school. Some people think the College is just a small liberal arts school, but it's so much more than that. This ring simply reminds them." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

Action 
continued from page I 
leader Ryan Iafigliola said. 
"This year we have a lot more depth to the actual activity," he said. "We have a larger planning team and bet­ter organizaqon." 
Registration and setup for the night will occur between 5 
p.m. and 8, followed by an opening prayer and guest speakers Cara Lowe, volun­teer coordinator at the Center for the Homeless, and actual guests at the Center. The speeches. Iafigliola said, are "the highlight of the evening," because students come to a better understanding of the day-to-day plight of homeless people. A band performance and marshmallow roast will round out the event. 
"When you see people in boxes, maybe it will make you think back to the actual sub­standard living, the actual shacks of the world," Iafigliola said. "We want people to notice it and maybe stop by ... even if you're not staying out, to come ou.t for the speaker." 
lafigliola proposed the idea of having "Shack City" at Note Dame last year to Habitat's board after attending Valparaiso University's ver­sion of the event. Although it took lafigliola several months to convince the board to carry it out, "Shack City" has now become a major event for Notre Dame's Habitat. 
"Last year we were sur­prised about how successful it was," said Knott senior Pete Mahoney, a co-president of 
Habitat at Notre Dame. "Obviously, we'd like to do 
betterthanlastyea~" 
"One of the differences is that this year we are trying to expand it into a weeklong thing," lafigliola said. 
While last year's "Shack City" was an independent event, this year's organizers made it part of the Habitat for Humanity week of advocacy 
called  "Act! Speak! Build!  
Week."  
The  week  began  this  

Monday, included a Wednesday session for stu­dents to write letters to U.S. senators and will conclude on Sunday with a mud volleyball tournament. 
Another big event set for this weekend is the comple­tion of the landscaping on Notre Dame students' Habitat house on Lyndon Street and Meade Street, the group's 11th house. 
Notre Dame's group is an affiliate of Habitat for Humanity for St. Joseph County. Dowdell said that his chapter gets some funding from the University and some from the Habitat for Humanity Neighborhood Assistance Grant. 
The chapter's other money comes from the fundraising that it does throughout the year. "Mud volleyball is a huge fundraiser for us," Dowdell said of the tourna­ment, which has raised $7,500 this year. "Next year I think that we are going to see a lot smaller fundraisers on campus." 
Contact Katie Wagner kwagner@nd.edu 


( 

Friday, April 15, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
d.10,278.75 -125.18jones 
.k. 

Same: Dcn!(p: Composite Volume 744 
143 .•"' 2,353,762,570 
AMEX 1,444.50 -14.00 NASDAQ 1,946.71 -27.66 NYSE 7,063.74 -70.25 S&PSOO I, 162.05 -11.74 NIKKE.I(Tokyo) 11 , 563. I 7 -74.35 FTSE IOO(London) 4,945.40 -15.40 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  -1.41  -0.51  35.55  
APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL)  -9.21  -3.78  37.26  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.45  -0.33  22.49  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.80  -0.20  24.84  
CISCO SYS lNC (CSCO)  -1.06  -0.19  17.81  
,  Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.62  +0.29  47.16  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.37  -0.16  43.58  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.79  -0.32  39.94  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.18  -0.05  27.12  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.91  51.13  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  -5.40  425.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents,'lb.)  -2.38  85.88  
Excho  Rates  

YEN 
I 08.2000 EURO 0.7806 POUND 0.5316 
CANADIAN$ 1.2417 
IN BRIEF 

Comcast users face service problems 
PHILADELPHIA -Comcast's high-speed Internet customers nationwide have suffered Web and e-mail problems since last week, the company said Thursday. 
The intermittent nature of the problem made it difficult to pinpoint how many of Comcast's nearly seven million broadband customers have been affected, Comcast spokeswoman Jeanne Russo said. 
Some Web pages took a long time to load or were inaccessible altogether. E-mail was down for some. 
The exaet cause of the problem had not been determined, but the troubles related to Comcast's Domain Name Server system, which translates easy-to-remember domain names like "AP.org" into a Web site's actual numeric address, Russo said. 
The latest service disruption started about 8:30p.m. EDT \Vednesday and ended shortly after midnight. Customers experienced simi­lar problems last Thursday and during a three-hour period Tuesday starting around 6:30p.m. 
Russo said the problems have been con­fined to the evening hours. "Throughout most of the day it doesn't seem to be a problem," she said. 
IBM misses Wall Street estimates 
NEW YORK -International Business Machines Corp., the world's top provider of computer hardware, is weighing a "sizable restructuring" after it surprised investors Thursday with a first-quarter profit that missed Wall Street estimates by five cents a share. 
The company said results were hurt by dif­ficulty closing transactions, increased pen­sion expenses and a drop in sales in Western Europe and Japan. 
In after-hours trading, IBM shares fell $3.09, or 3.7, percent to $80.55 a share on heavy volume after being halted earlier in the after-hours session. The stock fell 93 cents to close at $83.64 Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Details of the restructuring will come with­in the next three months, said Mark Loughridge, the company's chief financial officer. 






Polo customers face data theft 
Thousands ofRalph Lauren shoppers left vulnerable in credit card information theft 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Data appar­
ently stolen from the popular 
clothing retailer Polo Halph 
Lauren Corp. is forcing 
banks and credit card 
issuers to notify thousands of 
consumers that their credit­
card information may have 
been exposed. 
HSBC North America, a 
division of London-based 
IISBC Holdings PLC, has 
begun notifying holders of 
the HSBC-issued, General 
Motors-branded MasterCard 
that criminals may have 
obtained access to their 
credit card information and 
that the cards should be 
replaced. 
HSBC spokesman Stephen 
E. Cohen said Thursday that "we began doing it last week, and we are continuing." 
He said that about 180,000 GM-branded card holders are affected. 
Neither Cohen nor spokes­men for MasterCard International would identify the retailer by name. 

The security breach was reported in Thursday's edi­tions of The Wall. Street Journal, whieh quoted "peo­ple with knowledge of the matter" as saying the data was stolen at Polo Ralph AP 
Lauren. Data apparently stolen from Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. is forcing credit card A spokeswoman at Polo 
issuers to notify consumers their information may have been exposed.
Ralph Lauren, which is headquartered in New York, "of transaction data a<;sociat­query, Citigroup Inc., the data on some 145,000 con­said "we have no comment ed with a U.S.-based retail­nation's largest financial sumers nationwide. at the moment" on the er" in January 2005 and had institution, confirmed that it Authorities said some 750 report. She asked that her launched an investigation currently was "notifying people were defrauded. name not be used. immediately. The statement some customers who we In March, DSW Shoe 
Polo Ralph Lauren shares said banks that are members think may be at risk." The Warehouse, based in dropped $1.28, or 3.3 per­of the card association were New York-based bank said it Columbus, Ohio, said that cent, to close at $37.18 in notified. takes "appropriate action" more than 100,000 cus­Thursday trading on the "Investigations into this when notified by Visa or tomers of a shoe-store chain New York Stock Exchange, incident by MasterCard, law MasterCard of potential likely were affected by a where they have traded in a enforcement and other par­security breaches, but gave cyber break-in of the compa­52-Week range of $31.01 to ties arc ongoing," the state­no other details. ny's database. $42.83. ment said. It was the latest in a series Earlier this week, London­
It was unclear how many Visa USA issued a similar of data thefts that have based Reed Elsevier, which other cards might be at risk, statement, saying it was noti­increased public concern owns LexisNexis, revealed but both Visa USA Inc. and fied "by a U.S. merchant" of about the security of their that criminals may have MasterCard -the nation's a possible data security personal information. breached computer fUes con­largest credit card associa­breach. Visa USA said it was ChoicePoint lne., which is taining the p,ersonal infor­tions -were reported to be working with the merchant, based in suburban Atlanta, mation of 310,000 people dealing with Polo Ralph law enforcement agencies disclosed in February that since January 2003. Lauren on the matter. and its bank members "to thieves, who operated unde­HSBC's Cohen said the 
MasterCard said in a state­monitor and prevent card­tected for more than a year, bank did not yet know if the ment that it was informed of related fraud." opened up 50 accounts and ·thieves had used any of the a possible security breach In response to a reporter's received vast amounts of data they got. 


Congress enacts tougher debt laws 
bankruptcy attorney practicing in people, single mothers, minorities and 
Associated Press 

Roanoke, Va. the elderly and would remove a safety 
WASHINGTON Bankruptcy In recent weeks as Congress has net for those who have lost their jobs 
lawyers expect thousands of debt-bur­debated the legislation, Spencer said, or face crushing medical bills. 
dened people to rush to courthouses to he's seeing seven to eight clients a day, The legislation "protects the credit 
beat a new law making it harder to up from four a day beforehand. industry at the expense of the con­
wipe the slate clean of credit card bills The bill passed by the House sumer," Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Fla., 
and other obligations. Thursday on a 302-126 vote marks the declared in House debate. "It will drive 
The biggest changes in U.S. bank­second major ch;mge in law to benefit more Americans deeper into financial 
ruptcy laws in a quarter-century will business since Republicans increased crisis and weaken the nation's econo­
occur 180 days after President Bush their House and Senate majorities in my and social structure." 
signs a bill that Congress sent him last fall's elections. The Senate passed But backers in Congress and the 
Thursday. The 30,000 to 210,000 peo­the bill last month, 7 4-25. financial services industry·argue that 
ple that the American Bankruptcy The measure requires people with bankruptcy frequently is the last refuge 
Institute estimates will be affected by incomes above a certain level to pay of gamblers, impulsive shoppers, 
the new law can escape its impact if credit-card charges, medical bills and divorced or separated fathers avoiding 
they file for bankruptcy before then. other obligations under a court­child support, and multimillionaires 
"We will be up working late trying to ordered bankruptcy plan. who buy mansions in states with liber­· get those petitions filed before the Opponent<; say the change would fall al homestead exemptions to shelter deadline," said Eric Roland Spencer, a especially hard on low-income working assetS from creditors. 
Doctor gets 25 years for drug trafficking 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA -A promi­nent pain-management doctor who prescribed high doses of drugs such as morphine and OxyContin to patients around the country was sentenced Thursday to 25 years in prison. 
William E. Hurwitz, 59, whose pain clinic drew patients from more than 39 states, was convicted in December of drug trafficking resulting in the death of a patient, along money. You were successful," 
U.S. District Judge Leonard Wexler said. "By your behav­ior you ruined people's lives. By your behavior, you killed people." · 
Hurwitz also prescribed massive amounts of opiates for legitimate patients seeking relief from chronic pain. One of them, Linda Lalmond, died within two days of entering Hurwitz's care after he pre­scribed morphine in doses 40 times higher than anything 
she had previ­ously received. About 100 of 

with charges Hurwitz's sup­
..By your behavior 
including health porters packed
you ruined people ·s 
the federal

care fraud and illegal drug dis­lives. By your courtroom, and tribution. several testified 
. behavior, you
Prosecutors Hurwitz saved
killed people. ,, 
them from

said Hurwitz debilitating pain
turned a blind that other doc­
eye to patients Leonard Wexler tors were
who were obvi-
U.S. District Judge 
ous drug addicts and dealers, and that his waiting room was at times filled with stoned, sleeping patients with track marks on their arms from drug abuse. 
Hurwitz frequently pre­scribed 100 tablets or more of OxyContin for his patients as they developed tolerance to lesser doses, and at least one patient apparently received a prescription for 1,600 pills a day. An FBI agent's affidavit 
unwilling to 
treat. 

"I was sick as a dog. I was 90 pounds soak­ing wet, and I wanted to die. If not for that man, I would be dead," Eyssel Gurganus of Goldsboro, N.C., said, pointing to Hurwitz. "I had been to 36 doctors, and every doctor is afraid of prosecution. 
Hurwitz's lawyer, Marvin Miller, said the doctor was naive and was manipulated by drug-seeking patients. A graduate of Stanford Medical 
indicated 21 ..One ofmy School, Hurwitz percent of is "academically
husband's 
Hurwitz's pa­brilliant, but
weaknesses is that
tients had crim­he's got no 
inal records. he is too trusting.,, street smarts," Hurwitz Miller said. Hurwitz's ex­
who attracted a 
Nilse Quercia 
national follow­wife, Nilse
ex-wife of defendant
ing as an aggressive advocate of high-dose opiate treatment for patients, once touting his theories on "60 Minutes" -is appealing the conviction. 
"Dr. Hurwitz, I do not feel sorry for you. You were one of the chosen people. You had the talent. You went to the best schools. You made Quercia, testified 
"one of my hus­band's weaknesses is that he is too trusting." 
Hurwitz twice had his med­ical license suspended, once in 1991 and again in 1996. The second time, he was required to attend classes to learn how to detect drug­seeking patients who wanted to abuse the medical system. 
G-reat Food! 
G-reat Futt! 
Welcottte All ~lue &-G-old Fans! 
j$1 Sports ~ar itt South Jettd 204-6 South Jettd Ave .. Across frott1 Martins Plaza 272.-1766 
CALL tODAY tO RESERVE YOUR GRADUAtiON PARtY rues: COLLE~E Nl~Hr ... UJ &SPECIALS (srA~fiN~ Af $1.0 0) Wed: live fRIVIA Night ... &ring your teattts ... Prizes fhurs: UJ ... Pent1y Night ... 1~ Specials startit1g at 9PM MUSf J[ 21 ... NEVER A COVER WlfH A SfUPENf IU 
SUB 
continued from page 1 
week. 
SUB is best known for show­ing movies on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights, but the organization has also hosted many different activi­ties this year such as the 
Collegiate Jazz Festival, con­certs at Legends, the Race and Heligion Symposium, Hob Gonzales in con­cert, the Second City comedy show and more. But, while SUB does offer a variety of 

..Our goal is to bring in up and coming bands and 
,, 

muszczans. 
Aaron Perri program coordinator Legends 
events, many still sec the 
organization as fairly one­
sided. 
"My perception is that SUB 
just does movies," Knott fresh­
men Nick McLees said. "But 
what I know they do, I like." 
Tim Gibeau, a Keenan fifth­
year student, also agreed that 
more advertising of on-cam­
pus events might increase 
attendenee. 
"Honestly, I'm not really 
familiar with what's offered by 
the Student Union Board," 
Gibeau said. 
SUB manager Jimmy Flaherty agreed that there were some problems with the program. However, he noted that this year was one of SUB's most successful and .that next year's group of SUB leaders is working even hard­er to improve the quality of 
campus life for all students. 
"This year we're going to be 
working towards areas where 
we can improve, specifically· 
our internal processes and 
public relations," Flaherty 
said. "We've created a new 
[public relations] division to 
heighten our positive effect 

and image on campus." 
For those more interested in dancing and bar hopping, Legends also provides several entertainment options for the weekend. Thursday through Saturday, Legends offers stu­dent performances, profes­sional comedy, nightclub dancing, movie watches and more, along with a bar for those of age. 
"I like Thursday nights when a lot of the seniors go and hang out," Cavanaugh senior Erin Marx said. "Legends is nice if you don't have time to go off­campus but still want to do some­thing for an hour or two." 

And while Legends does not often bring big-name bands to its venue, students overall have been pleased with the quality of both the comedy 
and music shows. 
"Our goal is to bring in up and coming bands and musicians," Legends program coordinator Aaron Perri said. "A year from now, maybe two or thre·e, we'd like our fans to say, 'Yeah, I saw them in concert when I was in college before they were 
real big, they were amazing ­I even got an autograph and my picture taken with them."' 
Between SUB, Legends, and other groups, many students feel like there are enough things to do on-campus for weekend nights. 
"I think what they have going on is great," said Cavanaugh fresh,men Mary Beugelsdijk. "Both groups do an excellent job." 
Colleen Loris, also a fresh­

men, agreed that Notre Dame students are provided with enough of both on and off­campus opportunities for stu­dents to have fun on the weekends. 
"There are definitely enough activities on campus," said freshmen Colleen Loris. "But when you have an accessible car, it's fun to get off-campus for a while too." 
Many other students agree that Legends and SUB have a solid programming lineup, but also enjoy taking part in off­campus events as well. Many upperclassmen in particular prefer to spend their week­ends off-campus by visiting bars or apartments. 
"Most of my weekend life involves off-campus activities instead of on-campus," Gibeau said. 
"On campus there isn't enough variety of bars," agreed Marx. "Legends is a good bar, but anything gets monotonous after a while." 

..Legends is nice {f you don't have time to go offcampus but still want to do something for an hour or two. '' 
Erin Marx 
senior 
However, despite some older students favoring off­campus events, lately Legends has brought in upwards of 4,000 people each month, with April poised to be the club's busiest ever. Still, Perri sees 
a lot of room for growth. 
"The potential for this place is amazing. Sometimes I think students don't realize what they have in Legends," Perri said. "Everything we do here is free and we have a night­club, bar and live entertain­ment venue right on-campus. Not many schools have that~' 
Contact Jarrett Lantz at jlantz2@nd.edu 


Friday, April 15, 2005 page 9 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Flu virus debacle reveals flaws 
Critics call for greater precaution in transfer ofdeadly germs to labs 
Associated Press 
Every day, deadly germs are shipped across the country and around the globe, right along­side the books, gourmet foods and birthday presents sent through FedEx Corp. and simi­lar couriers. 
Often their journeys can be circuitous, too. 
Follow, for instance, a single vial of the potentially deadly flu virus causing a world health scare because it was included in test kits sent to more than 4,000 laboratories. It was grown in a Virginia lab, spent time in a Cincinnati freezer and passed through a small medical company on the Mexican bor­der before it fmally arrived at a Milwaukee lab. 
Health experts, government officials and the couriers insist the transportation of these germs is tightly regulated, and that the samples are heavily packaged and labeled to ensure safety. A catastrophic outbreak has never occurred as a result of such shipments. 
"The safety level of the trans­port of biological material is incredibly high," S'!-id Dr. Jared Schwartz, a microbiologist and officer with the College of American Pathologists, which is in charge of the flu testing pro­gram. "I _have no concerns about the safety of the trans­port." 
But accidents do occur -and some scientists feel they've been too close for comfort. 
Last month, a FedEx truck carrying five boxes of samples of anthrax, flu, tuberculosis, salmonella and E. coli collided with a car in Winnipeg. None of the dangerous germs escaped. 
In 2003, a FedEx package containing West Nile virus exploded at the Port Columbus International Airport in Ohio. Firefighters suspected dry ice caused it to burst open. No one was injured, but 50 workers had to be evacuated. 
"This has been a big concern for us," said Sujatha Byravan of the Council for Responsible Genetics, a Boston nonprofit fighting the U.S. expansion of high-containment labs that will be home to the world's dead­liest germs. 
At least 18 such "hot labs" are being planned or built in the United States in the coming years, and a growing number of scientists are being trained in the darker aspects of micro­biology as part of a huge feder­al effort to combat bioterror­ism. 
"The more FedEx exchanges of biological material you have between labs, the more oppor­tunities there are for acci­dents," Byravan said. 
The thousands of deadly flu samples that labs were hastily destroying at the urging of global health officials originat­ed at American Type Culture Collection, according to the col­lege of pathologists. ATCC is a nonprofit laboratory in Manassas, Va., that ships many of the nation's flu viruses and other dangerous germs to labs everywhere. 
ATCC was created in 1925 by a group of scientists who want­ed a central location for the nation's supply of germs for laboratory use. The organiza­tion's biological library has grown to 100,000 different specimens. It ships 150,000 biological items annually, mak­ing revenues of $32 million, according to its latest publicly available tax return. 
An ATCC spokeswoman declined comment for this story. 
In the days since some con­cerned Canadian scientists alerted the World Health Organization that their test kit included a flu strain responsi­ble for killing between 1 million and 4 million people in 1957, blame is being placed on Meridian Bioscience Inc. of Cincinnati for shipping thou­sands of vials of the dangerous bug around the world. 
In 2001, the Food and Drug Administration warned Mer­idian that the monitoring and tracking of components of its test kits failed to meet federal requirements. The problems led to a recall of 30 products and employee layoffs. 
As it turns out, most of the Cincinnati company's test kits with the 1957 bug were ulti­mately assembled and shipped via FedEx and DHL by Proficiency Testing Service, a tiny Meridian subcontractor in Brownsville, Texas. 



Government seeks umbilical cord blood 
Valuable plasma has cancer-treatingfuture 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Blood saved from newborns' umbili­cal cords could help treat about 11,700 Americans a year with leukemia and other devastating diseases, yet most is routinely thrown away, a panel of influential scientists said Thursday in calling for a tripling of the nation's supply. 
Cord blood is rich in stem cells, the building blocks that produce blood -the same stem cells that make up the bone-marrow transplants that help many people survive cer­tain cancers and other dis­eases. When frozen from cord blood shortly after a baby's birth, stem cells are ready to be thawed and transplanted at a moment's notice, much easi­er than traditional bone-mar­row donation. 
Now the government is preparing to open a national cord blood bank in hopes of providing an adequate supply to find a match for every patient who needs this kind of stem-cell transplant. 
Private cord blood banking -in which pregnant women arrange to store their child's cord blood, for a hefty fee, in case a family member ever needs it-is a booming indus­try. 
Women also can donate, for free, a baby's cord blood so that anyone can use it. 
Many medical groups cau­tion that odds are slim that privately stored cord blood will be used unless certain genetic aiseases are common to a family. But because stem cells from cord blood are more easily transplanted into unrelated people than is bone marrow, specialists have long urged a bigger and better coordinated national stock­pile. 
But public donation is hard for women to learn about: It's seldom advertised and is offered only at hospitals affili­ated with 22 public cord blood banks around the country. 
About 100,000 donations from pregnant women in the next few years would be required to set up the bank, on top of the roughly 50,000 cord-blood donations already in stock at different public banks around the country, the Institute of Medicine said Thursday, in a report request­ed by Congress on how a bet­ter national banking system should be established. 
Those donations shouldn't be hard to get, said Kristine Gebbie of Columbia University, a nursing professor and health policy specialist who led the 10M study. Four million U.S. babies are born every year, and most of the umbilical cord blood is simply thrown away. 

Saturday 4/16 

fisher regatta 11am holy cross hi howard duck rmt 5pm Coleman-Morse knott on the knoi 4pm sub movie oceans 12 4;30pm 7pm OeBart:cdo 101 
Sunday4/l7 free laundry llam-6pm faforrune laundry cent..er c!os0.lg mass fct fatoor malloy 9pm joyce center fo~lowed by celebration of father maiibYs presideocy 
10:30pm 
Monday4jJS 

panera deirvery to c~es tye-Oye t,shirt I1:30am east sooth quad speaker ken jermings 7:30pm dtrll01 
Tuesday 4/19 

paoora de.ti\lery to classes big wheel r~ 11 :OOam oorth mtrance dbrt quartet dog eating contest 12am IaFortune 
Wednesday 4/20 mg red ~ &mini goff 2Jn east sooth quad punt pass &kick qualifying cootest 2pm fiekihouse maU tate tWght grllle 8pm north quad drive-h1 mo~ billy ma<l~n ~ norib ~ 
Thursday 4/21 carnival 3pm sooth ~ad ard west quad comedian jim gaffig.an Bpm iegends best of acoustiCate 1Opm legei!ds sub movie fmding ~riand lOprn DeBartolo 101 
FrJday 4/22 

recess ncoo ~st ®ad ttaes tdlveiling of "'the sl'tftt" noon hatt'tft~S nwe dame bookstore battle of the bands 6pm legends sub n10'1rie ~nding ~ve~ 8f;rf1 ~!0:30pm Oellartoio 101 
Saturday 4/23 .~Tosw coocert 9pm legends sub mO\Ile ~ndtng revenand 4:30pfT1 and 7pm DeBartolo 101 
Sunday 4/24 
c:.ms trip (tickets sold out) 

brought to you by the studt:nt tmion boord. 
SJ..~.nd.edu 




THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nom: Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger MANAGING EDI10R BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoeg.arden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon · ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDilOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDilOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS ED110R: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennife~ Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) "631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(57 4) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

Online trend has potential 
The Internet is a fascinating tool. Within minutes, it can whisk out of convenience, but out of necessity, as Hewlett-Packard could you away from checking your fantasy baseball standings to mak­no longer support the University's old IrishUnk technology. That ing sure your bookstore basketball team is properly paid for and hasn't made the adjustment any easier, however, as many students registered. Gone are the days of hiking out to the JACC to confirm accustomed to IrishUnk have balked at the volume and complexity registration for classes. In the place of pen and paper are a mouse of information available on InsideND. But while it is far from sim­and a keyboard, leaving the hassles of registration to simply wak­ple, InsideND does have potential to streamline registration once ing up in time for online deadlines. the student body and the faculty are given a chance to adjust. 
But the issue isn't that simple. The trend to Senior week registration was another difficult put all manner ofregistration forms online has OJhe case, as it was placed online out ofsenior lead­been met with a mix ofsuccess and disappoint­ers' desire for efficiency, but the University ments. For every freshman who successfully fills Business Operations Division required the site out his online housing contract, there's a senior to be operated within its e-commerce services. who wakes up to reserve his Cubs ticket only to Yet when the crash occurred, neither side 



I~iitorial
find a disappointing senior week site-wide lock­down. 
Among the new online systems this spring, the registration for housing contracts and Bookstore Basketball teams was quick and efficient. However, the InsideND course sign-up system was daunting, and thanks to a site malfunction, the Web-based senior registration was nonexistent. 
The online housing contract'i and Bookstore Basketball forms succeeded in streamlining their respective processes because they were simple and straightforward. Both ofthese online registration forms could be filled out in minutes, cutting down a lot of the extra burden of filling out a paper copy and attaching cash or a check. 
The revamped course registration system, InsideND, clearly faced a much more complicated agenda. Changes were not made pointed fingers, and both appear dedicated to 

fixing the glitches and following through on a better way to execute senior week sign-ups. 
Therefore, given that lnsideND is still in its relative infancy and the senior registration difficulties can be used as a valuable learn­ing experience, there is still much to gain from the Internet's capa­bilities for registration. 
In this day and age, it's rare for any type of registration to not be online. While the tendency to put every form possible on the Internet has its advantages and disadvantages, the outcome will be determined by how the plan is set in motion. If these and future online ventures are properly planned, monitored and refined, there's no reason why the Internet's capabilities can't continue to improve student life at Notre Dame. 
(57 4) 631-4 541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
· SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 63 I-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper pubLshed in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contenr, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th< Obscm:r (USPS 599 2-4000) is pubii<h<d Mon<iay through Friday excq:n during exam iond vacation periods. A sohKription to The Observer is $100 fOr one ac:ademic yt'at; s;.; tOr one semesrer. 
Th< Obs<m:r i> puhlished at: POSTMASTER 
024 Sourh Dining Hall ~nd addrts& correcrions ro: 
Notre Dame, lN 46556-1)779 ThcOb,m·er 
Ptriodial po<ragc paid ar Noru Dune r.o. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nom Dame, IN 46556-1)779 
The O~r is a membe£ ofthe Associaud Prea. All rcprodu'-:tion rlghts are t<S«Ved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Eileen Duffy  Bobby Griffm  
Mary Kate  Ken Fowler  
Malone  Kevin Brennan  
Jarret Lantz  Matt Puglisi  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Alyssa Brauweiler  Christie Boisen  
Graphics  Illustrator  
Graham Ebetsch  Graham Ebetsch  

Bidding adieu to the senior class 

ize how we must pass through each season of our lives. I even lost my other dog, Potamus, whose love and loyalty taught me much about myself. His life transformed me through patience and strengthened my faith in all living creatures. · 
I personally believe that we exist here on earth only as long as our souls need to help others and grow. Anyone who has lost a loved one is forever changed with a new perspective from within. It also strikes me that if we open ourselves to our surroundings, we gain so many subtle insights into life. 
The wonders of life during your per­sonal journey are like a spring shower. The first few drops seem to have no effect since they are barely felt. But with time, as the shower continues, it eventually drenches everything. Your journey will be most rewarding if you savor each drop as it falls. And remember, you are a drop along the journey of others, so make life incredi­ble while you're in this world. 
I have learned that nothing in this life is as good or as bad as some may try to portray. In our national political arena, Republicans, while currently in absolute power in Washington, will not solve every ill of the world. Nor did Democrats when they controlled the federal government a decade ago. Yet we have more in common than most would admit, and that is worth remembering as seniors today begin to journey along their careers. 
Theologically speaking, being spiri­tual can bring one closer to heaven than literally believing every word of scripture. Does it matter whether or not Jesus might have been married if you live your life with love and com­passion? Does it make a difference if we discover that church leaders throughout the first several centuries tweaked the Bible to suit their notions of what should be emphasized? What counts is not how we define our values by excluding others but how we reach out to include society's outcasts like Jesus did. 
Institutionally, sometimes change moves too slowly without regard for the consequences. Popes John XXIII and Paul VI led a great revival and modernization of the Catholic Church that John Paul II continued in many ways but refused to consider when it came to the participation of women in the Church or the outbreak of AIDS in Africa. The next pope must make sense of the conflicts between the realities of modern society with ancient Church traditions. 
What awaits -the Class of 2005 is anyone's guess. But I can predict one thing will be certain. Each will face humor and heartbreak. How your life progresses depends on if you think of others more often than of yourself. Notre Dame graduates are attracted to a higher call of community, public and family service. Many waste their opportunities through closed-minded resoluteness. 
The Class of 2005 has endless opportunities ahead of them. Tuck the unconditional love of Potamus in your back pocket and remember that the Kingdom of Heaven is within you. If you can make time for others who are different from you, the meaning of life will be yours, as well. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame 73, served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contact­ed at hottline@aol. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"As I would not be a slave, so I would not be a master. This expresses my idea ofdemocracy. " 
Abraham Lincoln former U.S. president 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Maintain faith in humanity 
In a recent class discussion, I was saddened to learn more about my fellow of undertaking that relies on an inherent goodness existing in humanity. Now, students' political and moral outlook for the future. The class' principle 
only starry-eyed idealists believe in the workability of things like a sentiment was one of disillusionment. There was no hope for a bet-socialist political system. As a result of this lack of hope in humani­ter, more human, economic or governmental system. Recently, I ty, we are complacent. For the most part, v.·e are not a genera­have been thinking a lot about the source of this outlook. More tion of activists. We do not think that forward progress can be and more, I am getting the impression that we live in a made on any great scale. We are largely individualistic, and depressed, postmodern age of moral relativism. I do not 
our concern for others does not extend much past our own sense a vital hope for the future. IQ.stead, we, as a genera­tight-knit communities. Therefore, I wonder how history tion, are forfeiting our historical roles. We feel that, will judge us. "Yeah, while the status quo is pretty messed up, it's the 
Still, I want to make clear that I do appreciate the best that we can do." Thus, there are no radical or 
impressive efforts that many of my fellow students are sweeping changes that we can make to improve our soci­
making to improve our country and the world. I simply ety. 
feel that, compared with previous generations, the What, then, is this source of this ambivalence regarding 
changes that we hope to affect are n~t comprehensive the future? What happened to idealism? What happened enough. Lacking is a faith in inherent human goodness to activism, and when did "liberalism" become a dirty necessary for the implementation of comprehensive and · word that (to some) connotes subversion and evil? Perhaps widespread changes in our society. However, I believe that it was the fall of communist Russia that dealt a death blow this lack of faith is based on flawed assumptions that hard to our world's hope for a better, more human political system. work and cooperation will allow us to overcome. Maybe it was the terrorist attacks on our country that showed us the chaos and inhumanity that exist in our world. Kevin Winnike 
Regardless of the source, the most harmful sentiment that we have, junior as a generation, is our lack of hope for the future and for mankind. Our gen­off-campus eration sees a world where humans are too deeply flawed to attempt any type Aprill4 


Different majors offer different opportunities 
Accountancy not for the apes 

ND founded in many majors 
This letter is in response to Kate Gales' April 11 column. Though she clearly states, ''I'm not trying to bring down the engineers or the archys or the pre-meds," her article does just that. · 
Let's look at the implications that Gales makes in her article. She states, "the vast majority of engineers, architects and doctors are going t_o end up working for a business major." If that's not putting down the aforementioned groups, I'm not sure what is. And not only is Gales making ad-hominem arguments, sbe is making false claims. CEOs of hospitals, for example, tend to. be physicians but may even have undergraduate degrees in many other areas. 
For example, Gary A. Mecklenburg, CEO of Northwestern Hospital in Chicago, was an Anthropology major who later earned an M.B.A. I'll go out on a limb and say that most of the big research hospitals have presidents and CEOs with a scien­tific background. · 
Furthermore, the Fortune 500 has many CEOs who have engineering degrees; according to U.S. News and World Report, 20 percent of the Fortune 500 CEOs have engineering degrees. Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and Jack Welch all have engineer­ing backgrounds. Jack Welch, a chemical engineer, who knew? 
The fact of the matter is technical backgrounds are often a necessity for running a company in an engineering or scientific field. So no, the vast majority of engi­neers will not necessarily be working for business majors. 
Gales goes on to discuss how business majors learn skills that are immediately applicable in the real world, such as designing Web pages, reading stock quotes and developing detailed budgets. 
There is an implication that other majors do not learn these skills, though I feel Gales is again mistaken. As an undergraduate here at Notre Dame, my senior design class required us to maintain a Web page to provide information to the engineers at Sears Corporation who were overseeing our projects. 
Additionally. we had to prepare detailed budgets, as our designs were candidates for real world products. Perhaps there exists some confusion on both sides as to what the "other majors" do and learn in their four years at this University. 
And Gales, perhaps you should step back and get a good look at reality, because you never know who your boss might be some day. 
Lastly, I took particular offense to the statement: "Without business majors, this school would crumble." Is it true that the University of Notre Dame has grown in large part due to the College of Business? Yes. 
Is the foundation of this University financing, marketing and business adminis­tration? No. 
This University is rooted in Catholic tradition upon which our liberal arts, sci­ence and business educations are built. 
Dan Tyszka graduate student off-campus April12 

In Thursday's Viewpoint, math major Eric Staron made the profound insight that business majors "learn to take numbers and put them into the correct 'debit'1or 'credit' c~lumns." He then·~. went on to remark that "you could · essentially train a monkey to do this." If this be the case, I suggest that they start admitting monkeys to the University ­because those would be some pretty brilliant monkeys. However, Staron has grossly overestimated the intelligence of monkeys and underestimated the aca­demic prowess of the accountancy stu­dents who learn to "debit" and "credit." 
If Staron went through the accountan­cy program. he'd learn that only the first two classes of Principles of Accounting 241 are devoted to learning to make the correct "debits" and "cred­its." The rest of the accountancy pro­gram is more like upper-level law and less like bean counting. If he wants proof, I will be more than happy to lend to him my CD-ROM of Financial Accounting Standards, which includes 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
thousands of minute regulations for obscure transactions in specific indus­tries. I'd also like to see how Mr. Staron's monkeys could handle the details of compliance with Congress' 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act. ·· · ' 
Incidentally, a plethora of business periodicals name accountancy as one of the most sought-after backgrounds in America, not to mention one of the most highly compensated professions. If it was so easy, as Staron claims, everyone would major in accounting, but the truth is that there is a vast shortage of accountants in society. 
In closing, I cordially invite Staron to sit in on one of my accom1ting classes before the end of the semester -I know that he'd finally realize that the subject and profession isn't "monkey business." 
Lynn Fogarty junior McGlinn Hall April 14 



THE OBSERVER 
E

page 12 


Friday, April 15, 2005 


esc 
The Green Wave's annual Fishe1 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Senior SraffWrirer 
Just like cross-dressing Bookstore Basketball teams and rampant procrastina­tion, the Fisher Regatta can always be counted on to storm campus with enthusi­asm each spring. 
The spirited competition began modestly in 1987 and has since evolved into one of the premier signature dorm events as handcrafted boats race across Saint Mary's lake in pursuit of the prestigious Fisher Hall Regatta Cup. Rivalry and dorm pride 
abound as teams pre­··we are happy that our boat year stemming from close pare for the aquatic is still in working condition. heats, the finish line offi­battle. While many . ciating will be upgraded.
Wzth some skilled rowers, 
seem to train seriously, "In years past, the races
we·ll have a good chance to
other watercrafts focus have not been that close, more on flaunting cre­win the race. •• and usually someone runs ative features like kegs away with it," Regatta co­and bicycles for flota­chair Mike Bufalino said.
Chris 'The Boat Guy' Tilton
tion and paddling pur­"And last year, there were 
Fisher Hall master craftsman 
poses. 

These playful entries do provide entertain­ment for the crowds watching from shore,· but water safety personnel have raised concerns that an increasing number of par­ticipants have been mixing alcohol with water in recent years. Since the Regatta organizers emphasize water safety, rowers who are deemed to be noticeably intoxicat­ed will be disqualified and asked to leave the premises. Even sober paddlers have a tendency to fall overboard each year, so everyone is required to wear a life jacket on the water. 
Many teams take their boating endeavors more seriously, though, and make earnest runs for the cup. Last year's showdown in 
O'Neill! 
ROTC 



the men's final saw the Angry Mob of O'Neill defeat the Siegfried Ramblers, while the women's final pitted two Welsh Family boats against one another for the title. The host dorm's own boat made it to the semifi­nals before being edged out by Siegfried and will make its third Regatta appearance this year. 
"We are happy that our boat is still in working condition," said Chris 'The Boat Guy' Tilton, Fisher's master craftsman who built the Green Wave's current vessel for the 2003 contest. "With some skilled row­ers, we'll have a good chance to win the 
race." 

Due to controversy last 


a couple really good 
boats. O'Neill, Siegfried 
and Carroll all had really good boats, and it all came down to the last second. 
"Last year, we didn't really have an offi~. cial at the finish line, so this year we'ri:w going to make a bigger effort to do a better job to declare winners." 
Bufalino and co-chair Mike Coogan encouraged all dorm presidents to rally support within their respective halls for the tradition. As usual, free food and drinks will be available all day so rowers and their fans can enjoy burgers, hot dogs, pizza and snacks. Sponsors include Coca­Cola, which agreed to supply soft drinks for the duration of the event, and all proceeds 

Facie 
fj 
Walsh2 


Friday, April 15, 2005 
page 13 

e 
11 

rRegatta hits campus Saturday 

from the Regatta will directly benefit Andre House, a ministry to the poor and homeless in the Phoenix area. 
"The residents of Fisher Hall are enthusi­astic about this .event, knowing that the Regatta provides _a day of campus-wide entertainment and an atmosphere of healthy dorm compe_tition," Bufalino and Coogan said in a letter to all hall presi­dents. 
Tilton echoed this sentiment that it was an all-inclusive fun time, not only for Fisher. 
"The Regatta is a great event for both Fisher and the rest of campus," Tilton said. "It creates some friendly 
rivalries between the ..It's just a lot offun to An ongoing game of dorms." Assassins also took place dur­
do all this crazy stuff
Part of Fisher's excite­ing the week, where partners
and have a really big 
ment is generated in the armed with squirt guns hunted week leading up to the week of dorm pride.·· down their assigned victims. actual Regatta. Events The Spring Bling ensued each night amplify dorm Thursday, with live music,
Mike Coogan
unity for the main event grilling and other entertain­
Regatta co-chair 
and began last weekend ment on South Quad. Tonight's 
with a dorm poker tour­nament at a former Fisher resident's Lafayette apartment. 
Monday was Section Wars night in the ;basement, ·which)ncluded tests of physical 
rand·•'·mental pr-owess-;·• sudi~ as• the·· IRo·ommate Game. Reminiscent of the Newlywed Game, it reveals how much roommates know-or don't know-about each other. There were also heavyweight and lightweight arm wrestling contests, no­hands pie eating contests and the opportu­nity to get an unflattering haircut. 
''I'm not sure how many people are going to be willing to do that though," Bufalino said before Section Wars night. ''I'm sure we'll get a few freshmen to do it. That's 
what always seems to happen." 
A few brave Fishermen did sacrifice their hair for the sake of their sections, including hall president Jake Benedict, now sporting an F on the back of his head. 
Next up was Traditions night on Tuesday, with guest speaker Patricia O'Hara, dean of the law school. Wednesday night the noto­rious Red Mock Awards took place, where honors were handed out for questionable distinctions like being smelly or lazy, or for antics from throughout the year. There were also contests running throughout the week, like a photo contest of random sub­
jects, where the pictures were 
shown at the awards "ceremo­
ny." 
event is the Zoo, the annual 

dorm-wide bash where each section throws a party. Wrapping up the week Saturday night, there will be a dorm danoe in the Fisher/Pangburn courtyard aftelf the Regatta. 
"The dorm comes together as a communi­ty all the time," Coogan said, "but everyone gets really excited about this. It's a really big deal ... it's just a lot of fun to do all this crazy stuff and have a really big week of dorm pride." 
The Fisher Regatta will begin at 1 p.m. Saturday on Saint Mary's Lake. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 

Walsh 1 
..... 
ea~ 
SaimMary's
-· 
McGlinn 
p 
erill.a West 1 
Pan~m2 
Walsh3 
GRAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic 


I 
I 
.

I 
I 
i 
I 

----·-····----------· ---------l 
I i' 
L---­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Iverson spoils Shaq's return as Sixers keep on winning 
LeBron fames and the Cavaliers fall to the Knicks as playoff hopes quickly fade for a struggling Cleveland team 
Korver for a 3-pointer. Jamal Crawford scored 25
Associated Press Miami's Damon Jones start­points and Maurice Taylor had PHILADELPHIA -Allen ed complaining to the referees 16, including 11 in the fourth Iverson again is leading after the play and was whis­quarter, as the New York Philadelphia upward in the tled for a technical foul. Knicks damaged Cleveland's Eastern Conference standings. Iverson made the free throw playoff chances with a win Iverson scored 38 points and for a114-106 lead. over the Cavaliers on had 16 assists, helping the "That steal was ridiculous," Thursday night. Sixers spoil the return of Heat coach Stan Van Gundy "It was like we were just Shaquille O'Neal and over­said. "We should be able to get playing to play," LeBron James come a career-high 48 points the ball inbounds." said. "It wasn't like we were from Dwyane Wade with a Jones came down and drilled playing for a playoff spot. We 126-119 overtime win over the a 3, then glared at the offi­had no sense of urgency and I Miami Heat on Thursday cials. Trailing by three with a don't know why. Hopefully, this night. .minute left, O'Neal bricked a game won't come back to "It's like a do or die situa­couple of free throws. haunt us." tion," Iverson said. "A loss Jackson's 18-footer from the With guard Stephon Marbury here or there and we could be left wing gave the Sixers a watching from the bench for out of the playoffs. We under­118-113 lead and sealed the the entire fourth quarter, the stand that. It just says a lot win. Knicks held off Cleveland's about us." "When we approach the rally and handed the Cavs a Marc Jackson scored 26 and game mentally the right way, loss they· couldn't afford with Kyle Korver 20 for the Sixers, these are the results," Iverson less than a week left in the who won for the fifth time in said. regular season. six games. With Cleveland's The Sixers made 33 of 34 James scored 27 points on 7­95-89 loss to New York, the free throws and the Heat went of-25 shooting -4-of-13 on 3­Sixers ( 40-38) moved into a tie 22-for-24. O'Neal missed eight pointers -and had a career­for seventh in the East stand­of 11 attempts. high 18 rebounds for the ings. Philadelphia, though, "He looked like Shaq to me," Cavaliers (40-38), who are tied holds the tiebreaker with three Iverson said, smiling. with Philadelphia (40-38) for wins over the Cavaliers. O'Neal was a non-factor in the No. 7 playoff spot in the The next two games will go a the frantic final 1:50 of regula­Eastern Conference but would long way toward deciding tion with each team trading lose a tiebreaker to the 76ers, Philadelphia's fate. They play baskets before a boisterous who defeated Miami 126-119 at Indiana on Friday and at crowd, giving the game a play­in overtime. New Jersey on Sunday before off atmosphere. Cleveland leads idle New ending the season with games Wade sandwiched a driving Jersey (38-40) by two games in against Milwaukee on Monday layup and a jumper around the standings with four games and Atlanta on Wednesday. Webber's 18-footer, and left, but three of those are on "Playing a lot of games in a Iverson tied the game 104-all the road. few nights, that comes with with a couple of free throws Also, the Cavs would lose a the territory," Jackson said. with 11.5 seconds left. Wade tiebreaker to the Nets, which "You enjoy those things." was 6-for-9 in the fourth and is why this game, the Cavs' "We just turned the ball over minutes. Wade's career-high in points had a chance to win it in regu­third ~traight against a non­down at the end," said Cavs Down by 12 points midway and 10 rebounds couldn't keep lation, but his jumper over playoff team, was one they interim coach Brendan through the third quarter, the Heat from losing their sea­Iguodala was no good. couldn't let slip away. Malone. "We didn't handle it James and the Cavaliers final.: son-high third straight game. "I hit some shots, but missed But now that they have, the well." ly began playing as if their While the Heat have already the one at the end of regula­Cavs, who play in Washington James, though, made a pair season was on the line. He hit wrapped up the No. 1 seed and tion," Wade said. "I got some on Friday, are in a spot they of 3-pointers and fed Robert a 3-pointer and scored on a home-court advantage for the good looks at the basket never imagined possible a Traylor for a dunk as dunk during an 11-2 run that Eastern Conference playoffs, tonight." month ago when they seemed Cleveland cut it to 93-89 with brought Cleveland within 6 7­they're stumbling at the finish. · Wade made 18 of 3 3 field destined to make their first 1:26 to go. But James couldn't 64. "We had a chance to put goals and was 10-for-13 from trip to the playoffs since 1998. come up with a big 3-pointer, James made two free throws them away," Wade said. "They the line. Everywhere Wade "It's going to be tough now, and the Knicks held on despite t9 give the Cavs a 70-69 lead are a team playing for their was on the floor, he found a man," said Cavs forward Drew making just 2-of-8 free throws and then pulled down another playoff lives and you could see way to score. Gooden. "Our backs are in the final minute. rebound, his ninth of the peri­that tonight." "He showed he's a different against the wall. It's like the The Knicks, who were beat­od, before Eric Snow's layup O'Neal returned after miss­kind of player by shooting the NCAA tournament for us~ en here by 25 points on Jan. 8, put Cleveland up 72-70 going ing three games with a stom­ball the way he did," Iverson one loss and we're out." snapped a seven-game losing into the fourth. · ach ailment and viral infection said. The Knicks, who blew a 12-streak in Cleveland. They did With filmmaker Spike Lee that left him unable to eat for "Our scouting report said let point lead in the third quarter it by making James beat them fantasizing about him in a several days. Coach Stan Van him shoot jumpers. But it did­when James had 11 points and from the outside. Knicks uniform and daily Gundy limited O'Neal to 30 n't work. He just played nine rebounds, took control in "We wanted to make him rumors swirling that he'll minutes in regulation. He great." the fourth behind Taylor. He into a jump shooter," said New demand a trade, James said scored 13 points and missed made five of his first six shots York coach Herb Williams. he's only focused on getting two clutch free throws in the New York 95, Cleveland 89 to open the period to help New "We wanted to keep him out of the Cavs to the playoffs. final minute of OT. A promising season has York build an 87-77 lead with the lane." "He's a good dude," James O'Neal did not talk to turned into something else for 4:57 left. All-Star center Zydrunas said of Lee, whom he filmed a reporters after the game. the Cleveland Cavaliers. Panic. During New York's spurt, the Ilgauskas returned to the commercial with last year. "I Andre Iguodala opened over­Not long ago, the playoffs Cavaliers turned the ball over Cavaliers' starting lineup after don't want to get into that. I'm time with a couple of high-fly­looked like a sure thing. Now, five times. They had eight missing four games with a dis­more worried about wearing ing dunks, and Iverson stole nothing about the Cavs' future turnovers overall in the fourth located right ring finger. He the Cavaliers uniform every an inbounds pass and fed is certain. quarter. finished with 13 points in 2 7 night." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Seeking college student for summer  Great 6-7 bdrm home available  3 blks from ND,_318 Pokagon, 3 bd,  STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER  
WANTED  child care for 14& 12 yr old. Call 1­9947 or 277-8564 and ask for Lisa.  FoR RENT  6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­able NOW. Both Close to  3.5 Bath $1450,7-1-05. Email:pok­agon@ hotmail.com  Furnished 1·bdrm apt. Free laundry. No smokers,no pets. On bus route,2  

 NO,W/O,on-site parking. NO  mi to NO. 350+utilities. 289-9365  
ROAOTRIP! Need manual97 VW  Live-in child care needed for the  2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus,  Internet Canopy access. Call Joe  MONTH All utilities, AOT security,  
Cabrio driven from Chicago to  summer. Three children. Room and  call 234-9923, ask for Rod.  Crimmins 574-229·3659  phone/cable/OSL, WID, Lawn serv­ 2&3 bdrm houses close to NO.  
Seattle. Will pay gas & courtesy fee.  board paid plus a weekly salary.  k;e. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.05/06. Call  $350/mo/person.Lawn service &  
Must arrive by May 25th. Call  271·0766/574-370-2368.  2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING  6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK  315-3215  appliances incl. 273-4889.  
Carolyn 90 (847) 612-1710 or  DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708  FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER  
hoorey90@ msn.cor'n  S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL  MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAC- 5-bedroom house for rent 2005·06.  
RECEPTIONIST/PHOTO ASST. Busy photo studio looking for a  FoR SALE  532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 5-7 BDRMS.$195/PERSON.SUM­ ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876­3537.  Close to campus. 105 Marquette Ave. 232-6964. Nice homes close to ND.Great  PERSONALS  
motivated', detail oriented reception- MER OR 05/06.  Clean homes close to ND. 2-8  area.AII amenities. 19237 Cleveland  I'm going to the league.  
istlphoto asst. Computer, phone,  WASHERIDRYER.329-0308  · bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask  . 6-7bdrm;202 E. Cripe 4bdrm; 222  
customer service experience pre- IRISH CROSSINGS Luxury homes  about FREE student rent program.  E.Willow 3bdrm 2773097  Whimsicality and esquestrian rock,  
ferred. Please call Kelly at 259­ one block east of campus. Now  1-yr sublet 1 bdrm. 10 min. to ND.  Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653.  and that's all I've got to say about  
3262.  under construction! For more infor­ $500/mo. Email: ngreenbe@nd.edu  2005-06 $250-300/mo. Furn.rooms.  that.  
mation: Go to:  www.andersonNDrentals.com  Country setting, 10 mi to ND. Non- 
Roommate to share rent for my  www.lrishCrossings.com Email:  123 N. ND Ave. 3bd, 1.5 ba,off  smokers. Private  No dice, chicken fight..  
2bdrm apt. 570-814-2716 or email:  lrishCrossings@ gmail.corn  prkg.,W/D. $1300/mo. Call229·  4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots  entrance ,laundry, kitchenette ,cable  
mmurph21 @nd.edu  0149.  of roorn. Call Judy 574-298-6217.  & util incl. 289-9365.  Holler, Jose 0-Tap.  
---------------­ 

Friday, April 15, 2005 page 15
The Observer • SPORTS 

Hoyas to visit Irish in a Big East matchup 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 


Youth key in weekend tee-off 
the field with a No. 13 rank­ence will also help the IrishBy CHRIS KHOREY 
ing. Unfortunately for Notre in coming years.
Sports Writer 
Dame, the Irish come into the· "Our goal is to get into the tournament a woeful 1-10-1 top 25," King said. "We seem 
The Notre Dame women's against those opponents. to be improving each year." golf team travels to The good news is the Irish The Lady Buckeye Columbus, Ohio this weekend are 22-0 against the remain­Invitational is played every for the Lady Buckeye der of the field -Bowling year at Ohio State's Scarlet Invitational, its third of four Green, Eastern Michigan, Course, one of the most diffi­tournaments in the month of Indiana, Iowa, Marshall, Ohio cult courses the Irish will April. University, Penn State, play this year. 
Despite the rough stretch Toledo and Western "Ohio State's Scarlet Course that includes a tournament Michigan. is known to be one of the away from South Bend every King is not worried by the toughest in the country," week this month, Irish coach disparity between the top King said. "However, if you Debbie King is not worried and bottom of the field. look at some of the past about her team tiring. "We don't really look at events we've played in, our 
"They're all drive trips so stats like that," King said. team plays well in tough con­it's not too bad," King said. "Golf is so much day to day, ditions, like bad weather or a "Plus, I've been going light any team can beat any other hard course." on practice during the on any day." King explained the Scarlet week." Taking the course this Course challenges golfers in 
The tournament features week for the Irish will be several ways. 15 teams, all of whom the junior Katie Brophy, sopho­"It's fairly hilly and long," Irish have faced already this more Stacy Brown, senior King said. "It's also tight on season. Six of the 15-Notre Karen Lotta, sophomore quite a few holes. You have Dame, Ohjo State, Kent State, Noriko Nakazaki, freshman to hit it long and straight at Purdue, Michigan State and Jane Lee and junior Suzie the same time." Northwestern -are ranked Hayes. The young lineup is in the top 50 in the nation by not new for the Irish. Contact Chris Khorey at golfstat.com. Ohio State leads Getting the youth experi-ckhorey@nd.edu 

Saturday,April 16th,12-SPM· 

Hesburgn Center Auditorium The Accused 
starring Jodie Foster in her first Oscar-winning role 

Body Shots 
starring Tara Reid, Jerry O'Connell, and Amanda Peet 


10% Off Coupon 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Foote expected to be impressive for Notre Dame in order to win 
By ERIC RETTER 
Sports W~iter 
In what is becoming a pat­tern in Notre Dame's sched­ule, the Irish have another opportunity to slay a giant. 
On Saturday at 1 p.m., Notre Dame will take on the No. 3-ranked Georgetown at Moose Krause Stadium. 
Hoyas, who are entering the game with an impressive streak. 
"Georgetown has never lost a Big East game since the Big East started sponsoring women's lacrosse," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. 
"It's a buge Big East game 
for us." 
Notre Dame has struggled this season, and wants to begin redeeming its campaign on Saturday. · 
"I think our goal is to hand them their first Big East loss," Coyne said. 
To do so, Notre Dame will need stellar play from its offense, especially junior mid­fielder/attacker Chrysti Foote. 
Foote, who has been named the Big East Offensive Player of the week twice already this year, leads the team in both goals and assists, with 23 and 13 respectively. 
Notre Dame will also need freshman midfielder/attacker Caitlin McKinney to be on her game. McKinney missed the entire second half of last Sunday's game against Stanford after being ejected late in the first period. 
McKinney is second in all scoring categories, having tallied 20 goals and 11 assists. 
Saturday's game will mark the end of Notre Dame's toughest home stand, a five­game stint that has included tough losses to Connecticut, Duke and Stanford. 
Against Stanford, the team suffered a heartbreaking loss, as Stanford broke a 5-5 tie with just 14 seconds to play. 
With such a daunting schedule, the team has strug­gled to a 3-8 record, but its plan for winning has remained the same. 
"Our strategy has continual­ly been to improve our game and prove our game," Coyne said. 
At the same time, the Irish know their opponent and understand their strengths and the challenge they will be facing. 
"Georgetown comes out and tends to be very patient on offense," Coyne said. 
Ultimately, while the team has had its difficulties this season, the Irish are still excited about playing in such a big game. 
"We want to prepare as if this is an NCAA tournament game, and we're punching on every aspect," Coyne said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
U-HauJ of South Bend tT-Haul of Elkhart 3410 Western Ave 29057 us 33 w South Bend~ IN Elkhart, IN 574-282-2802 574-295-3926 
Make your reservations now for the following: 
• Truck & Trailer Rental 
ERASMUS BooKs
• 
Packing & Moving Supplies • Used Books bought and sold 

• 25 Categories of Books

• 
Storage Rental -• 25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock

• 
Hitches & Wiring • Out-of-Print search service 


• Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

Friday, April 15, 2005 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
1 Apostles' fall to Carlson-led 1 Best Hands' 21-3 
For much of the game the Apostles were at a 6-on-4 disadvantage 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer • 
Some teams .in bookstore basketball like to get pumped up for their games by bringing boom boxes and blasting music. The Apostles were no different, though their intro­duction music wasn't exactly "Eye ofthe Tiger" or any other classic pre-game song. The Apostles began their game by playing chants and other choir music. This was only the beginning of their pre-tip ritu­al, as the large crowd that gathered soon observed the toga-clad Apostles on their knees at mid-court devoutly praying the Our Father. 
They then rose from their circle revealing the names John, Peter, Thomas, Matthew and Judas painted on their forearms. 
It was clear from the first possession that the actual game would take a back seat to the Apostles' display. The Best Hands team used their size and speed to jump out to a quick 7-0 lead and never looked back. Thunderous dunks from John Carlson, a tight end on Notre Dame's football team, sealed the win in the second half. 
Despite lacking somewhat in basketball ability, the Apostles were determined to put on a show for the fans. The second half began with a crowd mem­ber running on the court exclaiming, "Judas, I have your 30 silver pieces." 
"Judas" (Jeremy Truelove) promptly stuffed them in his pocket, and "betrayed" his team by shooting at the wrong basket. His betrayal continued throughout the half as he played as if he were on the opposing team. Best Hands players even got to the point where they were comfortable passing the ball to Judas for a 6-on-4 advantage. 
When asked where they got the inspiration for their team 
name and costumes, "John" (Josh Meyer) admitted they received help. 
"Jeremy and a friend of ours, the apostle James Schindler thought this up," he said. The Apostles enjoyed the crowd support, but admitted their first-round game may have been more fun. 
"You should have been here for our first game. We did this whole act and we won playing four on six in the second half," Meyer said. 
Platinum FUBU 2.0 21, Team 4616 
The 12th-seeded FUBU team asserted itself as one of the top teams in the tournament with a dominant performance. Overall quickness and smoth­ering defense that extended to half court allowed FUBU to get numerous steals that led to fast break opportunities. FUBU jumped out to an 8-3 lead and closed the game on a 13-3 run. 
Paul Pogge led the effort in the second half scoring four points and starting a number of successful fast breaks. Bert Lenny's slashing ability allowed him to earn his team easy points in the paint, and John Rompf's size and rebounding ability gave FUBU a big advantage inside. 
Team members agreed that this wasn't their best perform­ance, but that didn't concern Pogge. He was more con­cerned about his teammate's wardrobe. 
"Honestly the most disap­pointing thing about the game for me was John Rompf's lack of FUBU gear," he said. 
Rompf will look to find some FUBU clothing before his team's next game on Sunday. 
STCC 21, MBA Bailers 19 
In one of the closest games of the night, the STCC squad outlasted their MBA oppo­nents. The game was an epic, lasting almost 90 minutes. 
It was clear from the outset that this game would be a war of attrition as both teams struggled to score. STCC, clad in black uniforms .with a crab 
· and the phrase "clinging to loose balls" on the back, came out in a 2-3 zone. This defense proved to be successful as the MBA BaUers could not consis­tently hit the outside shot. STCC was methodical on offense, looking to work the ball inside for a high-percent­age shot. They succeeded at the end of the first half scoring 8 of the last 11 baskets of the half to jump to an 11-6 lead. Jason Ryan established him­self as an inside presence, scoring three baskets in a row to end the first half. His per­sistence was evident on the glass as he exclaimed "Get to your home!" as he made a shot on his third attempt of the pos.session. The Bailers would not go away cutting the gap to 12-11 in early in the half, stealing an inbound pass and scoring an easy layup. The see-saw battle would soon turn in favor of STCC, however, as they scored the next six to go up 18-11, led by Joe O'Brien's three driving layups. The game appeared decided with the score 19-13, but stingy defense and hot shoot­

ing allowed the Bailers to score six in a row to tie the score at 19. After enduring an almost 15-minute drought, Peter Wu and O'Brien scored on consecutive possessions to cap the victory for STCC. 
STCC was pleased with its win, but puzzled at its second half cold streak. 
"In the first half, everything went right, but in the second we couldn't get anything to go our way," O'Brien said. 
When asked about their use 

of the  zone  defense, captain  
Jason Ryan  was frank is his  
explanation.  

"We can't run because we can't dribble. We have to slow it down, but we don't want it to take two hours," he said. 
The Ligers 21, Johnny Appleseed and His Band of Thieves 11 
In a game that featured a sloppy start, the Ligers cleaned up their play and hit their stride in the second half to pull away. 
The Ligers displayed team­work throughout the contest. Their unity was seen best in an 8-0 run which inflated their lead to 16-4. · During this stretch they were able to take advantage of several Johnny Appleseed turnovers and 
® 
covert them into easy baskets. James Rogers showed great court sense in leading the fast breaks throwing numerous no­look passes to open teammates for easy lay-ups. Rogers was able to find teammate Brendan Venter for four con­secutive lay-ups during the eight-basket run. Jesse Rodenbiker's hot shooting added to the Ligers' onslaught as the lefty was able to con­nect on six shots. 
While the team~ appeared as though it had been playing together for some time, the Ligers admitted this game marked only its second outing as a team. 
"We're just a bunch of fresh­men and transfers thrown together," Rogers said. 
Looking ahead to the next round, the Ligers anticipate a match up with CoCoa Butter, the 11th-ranked team featur­ing former wide receiver and current law student Bobby Brown..Braden Turner offered his thoughts on the game. 
''I'm not sure we'll be able to beat that team with Bobby Brown," Turner said. "But it's cool because I have his auto­graph, and that's no lie." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 









STORAGE SPACE 
Four Month Special, May-August For Notre Dame Students 5'x10' --$I49+deposit I0'xI0' --$I99+deposit 
call247-7805 
Close to Notre Dame and Airport Estcc I ...au<-tcr ~ational :\lakcup Artist Fcrc ShirYani Fron1 the ntn\vays in :\Iilan~ );'ere \Yi11 sho\\' you ho\\' to transt(>rnl todav·s hottest ..ft."ihion sho\\'.. looks into looks vou can \\'Car cYcrydav!
. . . H..csctYations arc lin1itcd! April28 & 29 At L..S. Avrcs LJnivcrsitv Park ~Ia11 277-2<)50 ext. 3307 
(Your s;;o.oo I )cposit is fully rcdccmahlc in Estcc I .audcr 
product) 


Before you buy a diamond, call us for a free quote, you will be glad you did. 
-

John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 Jewelers 

Gemologist, G.G., F.G.A. I Mineralogist, M.A. Goldsmiths I Platinumsmiths 
Telephone: -287-1427 Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
Key Bank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 



OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, April 15, 2005 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \:VIRE SERVICES page 17 
NBA Eastern Conference, Atlantic 
team  record  perc.  last 10  GB  
Boston  43~35  .551  5·5  
Philadelphia  40~38  .513  6-4  3.0  
New Jersey  38-40  .487  6-4  5.0  
Toronto  32·46  .410  4-6  11.0  
New York  31·47  .397  2-8  12.0  

Eastern Conference, Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
DetroII 51-27 .654 9-1 
Chicago 44-34 .564 7-3 7.0 
Indiana 43-35 .551 8·2 8.0 
Cleveland 40-38 .513 4·6 f1.D 
Milwaukee 29-49 2·8
,372 22.0 
Eastern Conferencef Southeast 
team record perc. la..'it 10 GB Miami 56·22 .718 4-6 Washington 43·35 .551 5·5 13.0 Orlando 35·43 .449 3-7 21.0 Charlotte 17·61 .218 2·8 39.0 Allantr · 12-66 .154 1·9 44.0 
Western Conference, Northwest 
team record perc. last lO GB Seattle 50-28 .641 2-8 Denver 47·31 .603 9-1 3.0 Minnesota 41·37 .526 7·3 9.0 Portland 25·52 .325 2-8 24.5 Utah 25·53 .321 4-6 25.0 . 
Western Conference, Pacific team record perc. last JO GB Phoenix 59·19 .756 · 8-2 Sacramento 48·30 .615 7-3 11.0 LA, Clippers 35-43 .449 4-6 24;0 L.A. takers 34·44 .436 2·8 25.0 Golden State 31-48 .392 7-3 28.5 
Western Conference, Sot4hwest 
team record per~' la..-,t 10 GB A 
San Antonio 58-21 .734 7-3· · "f~t. Dallas 54-24 .692 9-1 3.50!!+ Houston 48-31 .608 6-4 10.0 
Memphis 44-34 .564 5·5 13.5 New Orleans 18-60 .231 3-7 39.5 
NCAA Baseball Big East Conference 
team conJ record 
StJohn's 7-"1-0 21-9-0 Bos1on College 7-3-0 21-9-0 Rutgers 6-3-0 18-11-0 Villanova 6-4-0 20-8-1 NOTRE DAME 5-4-0 11·15·0 Connecticut 4-4..0 19-11-0 West Virginia 4-6-0 15-19·0 Pittsburgh 3-7-0 17-13-0 Georgetown 3-7-0 18-11-0 Seton Hall 2-8-0 8-21-0 
MIAA Softball 

team league record 
1 Alma 7-1 19-7 2 Calvin 5-1 15-9 3 Hope 8·2 17·6 
4 
Olivet 6-2 15·9 5 Tri-State 6-4 15·11 6 Albion 3·5 15-13 7 Adrian 3-7 8·16 8 Kalamazoo 0-6 1·19 9 Saint Mary's 0-10 5-14 
around the dial 
NBA 

Cleveland at Washington, 7 p.m., ESPN Sacramento at L.A. Lakers, 9:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLS 

DC United at Columbus, 7 p.m., ESPN 2 
NBA DRAFT 


Associated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.­Chris Paul got advice from his coach, his teammates and his family. He even talked with former Wake Forest stars Tim Duncan and Josh Howard. 
In the end, when it came time to make a decisiun, Paul relied on himself. 
The All-America point guard is giving up his final two years of eligibility with the Demon Deacons to enter the NBA draft, the second in what might be a long line of Atlantic Coast Conference players leaving school early. 
North Carolina guard Hashad McCants made his announcement Wednesday, and several others ­including Paul's teammate Eric Williams -are con­templating the move. 

"I just got this feeling maybe a couple of days ago, that this was what I wanted to do," Paul said Thursday. "This is all still so surreal. I have no idea that I would even be in this situation at the end of my sophomore year. I always thought I would play four years, and then, God willing, I would have an opportunity to play in the NBA." 
Nearly all his teammates attended a news conference on campus, along with about 30 family mem hers and friends. Coach Skip Prosser was there, too, along with assistants Jeff Battle and Pat Kelsey. 
As a sophomore, Paul was the leading vote-getter on The Associated Press' pre­season All-America team, and he was selected to the first team after the season. He averaged 15.3 points and 6.6 assists for the Demon Deacons (27 -6), who set a school record for victo­ries. 
Wake Forest also was ranked No. 1 for two weeks early in the season, the first time that's happened. Paul plans to sign with an agent soon, which would make his departure final. 
"It was Chris' decision, and as he said, I think it's an irrevocable decision," Prosser said. "I don't think it's necessarily a financial decision. I think it's a deci­sion based on challenges." 
Without Paul, Prosser likely will rely on Justin Gray to fill in at point guard, a position Gray played a bit as a freshman. Williams, a 6-foot-9 center, averaged 16 points and 7. 7 rebounds in a breakout season, and he admitted he's also thinking of entering the NBA draft. 
"This is Chris' day, I don't want to do anything to take away from that," Williams said. "But his dedsion does­n't affect me. It's a decision that I'll make for myself, by myself and with my family. I'mjust here to support Chris." 
IN BRIEF 

Utah federal judge lifts ban Bulls' Curry out for remain­Chicago Tribune reported that he'd 
on ephedra der of the season spent the game hooked up to a heart 
SAlT lAKE CITY -A federal judge CHICAGO -Chicago Bulls center monitor. Thursday struck down the FDA ban Eddy Curry will miss the rest of the Lonard shoots 6 2 to lead on supplements containing ephedra, season because of an irregular MCI Heritage after first day the once-popular weight-loss aid that heartbeat, but doctors aw optimistic HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. ­was yanked from the market one he'll be able to play again. Peter Lonard flirted with a 59 and year ago after it was linked to dozens Curry will undergo further tests finished with a two-stroke lead after of deaths. that will take another six weeks, Thursday's opening round of the MCI 
The judge ruled in favor of a Utah meaning he'll miss the team's first Heritage. supplement company that challenged playoff appearance since 1998. The 9-under 62 was onr. shot off the Food and Drug Adminjstration 's Doctors still aren't sure what caused the tournament record and brought 
ban. Nutraeeutical claimed that the heart arrhythmia, which hasn't somr. life to an event that doesn't ephedra has been safely consumed recurred in the last two weeks. have Masters champion Tiger Woods for hundreds of years. "We've been as diligent as we ean and his Big Four buddies. 
Hesearch shows ephedra -an to rule out anything possible that. Lonard was two strokes ahead of amphetamine-like herb-can speed would put him at risk," Dr. Kathy Thomas Levet, who birdied six of his heart rate and constrict blood vessels Weber, a Bulls' team physician, said last eight holes to shoot a 64. Darren even in seemingly healthy people, at a news conference Thursday Clarke was at 65 with Patrick but it is particularly risky for those night. "We're going to continue to do Sheehan another stroke back. with heart disease or high blood that until we feel it's safe for him to Lonard, a 37 -year-old Australian in pressure or who engage in strenuous play." his fourth season on tour, didn't look exercise. Among the deaths linked to The 22-year-old has been sidelined capable of a landmark round after the substance was that of Baltimore since March 30. He was a late opening with a bogey. But he made Orioles pitching prospect Steve scratch from the Bulls' game in 11 birdies over the next 15 holes to Beehler, who collapsed and died dur­Charlotte that night with what was take the lead and briefly flirt with ing spring training t~o years ago. listed as flulike symptoms, but the golfs magic number. 
Friday, April 15, 2005 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles to battle against Albion in MIAA game 
ND WOMEN'S CREW 

Irish rowers to host Bearcats 
progress through the The Irish are heading into
Notre Dame's only 

course, perhaps giving the the final 20 strokes of the home regatta of the Irish an advantage. season with the next two Cincinnati is fresh off of a weekends' regattas. It is at season occurs Sunday successfu I Southern soj­this juncture that much less ourn where the Bearcats than a first place finish in defeated a any varsity
By KYLE CASSILY 

strong field of eight race will 
Sports Writer teams, includ­"The familiarity of make it tough ing North the team with the for the NCAA The muddy waters of St. Carolina, Navy river will help.,, selection com­Joseph's River .may not and Delaware, mittee to make appear favorable to most at the Carolina a case for an onlookers, but the members Rowing Invitat­Martin Stone Irish bid. of the Notre Dame women's ional. Irish coach A clear victo­crew team hope those "The Car-ry over waters prove conducive to olina Invita-Cincinnati is speed. tional had some schools key considering next week­The river that plays host with some speed," Stone end brings to bat the twin to Notre Dame for all fall said. dangers of Harvard and and spring water practices Despite beating a field of Yale in the chilly confines will now hold the shells of competitive teams, the time of Boston, followed by the the Irish and their oppo­the Bearcats' Big East nent, the Cincinnati varsity eight Championships. Bearcats, this Sunday in posted, 7:2-..The Carolina The Irish Notre Dame's sole home, 3.90, is far Invitational had women were regatta of the year. slower than faced with a
some schools with 
According to Irish coach the time often minor stum­Martin Stone, the course posted by thfl some speed. ,, bling block ear­that will be used for the Irish women. lier this week regatta is radically differ­Such a dis­Martin Stone when their ent than the section of the crepancy shou­regatta with
Irish coach 
water plied by the Irish ld favor a Michigan State women on a regular basis. lengthy Irish had to be can­
Although the course's victory in the 2,000 meter e e II e d d·u e to i n c I e m e n t location may be strange, race, but Stone is not tak­weather. coach Stone is optimistic. ing the Bearcats lightly. The cancellation hindered 
"The familiarity of the "I think that for us, we Stone's chances to improve team with the river will need to race well and exe­his different crew lineups. help," Stone said. cute our plan, and just "It had a dramatic effect 
He feels that his team will win," Stone said of his gen­with our selection pieces," be able to recognize certain eral goals for the regatta. the coach said. landmarks along the way "I think it is critical to win that will help to give a [this weekend]. We have got Contact Kyle Cassily at sense of bearing and to get this done." kcassily@od.edu 

~~ 
~ 
~ 
! 
. I 
i 
I 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
I 
i 
I.~ 
j) 
~~ 
' ,i I i/t
,1,,,, 
1, I'·' I,I 
' 
I I 
,, i 
~~ 
~) r 
,, 
II i( ill 
I',
,.. 
I'(
.u 
,,til I 
tl· 
I I 
!;. I• 
'lt ii 
tli 
L.. 
Saint Mary's ready to see solid opponent with a tough lineup 
By PATRICK McCABE Sports Writer 
·-The Belles, seeking to recov­er from two crippling losses, play the Albion Britons· at 1 
p.m. Sunday in a critical con­ference match. 
"This match is really impor­tant because our conference record isn't that good. We hope to make amends," co-captain Kristen Palombo said. 
Belles' coach Dee Stevenson elaborated on her captain's feeling. 
"We're trying to recover from Wednesday's loss (to Kalamazoo)," Stevenson said. 
Albion is 3-0 in conference play and 12-3 overall. The Britons finished fifth in the Wisconsin tournament that snubbed the Belles. 
"They're good. They're 

<.. favored to win the conference this year," Stevenson said. "They return most of last year's players." Palombo also acknowledged the strength of Albion, espe­cially in reference to the Britons' deep lineup. 
"Most teams have only one or two premier players, but [Albion's players] are all good," Palombo said. "Preparation against them is tough." 
Stevenson explained the recent wrenching losses. 
"We're playing good teams. The matches could have gone either way," Stevenson said. "The injuries, academic obliga­tions, and graduation have leeched our depth. There's nothing you can do." 
Palombo echoed her coach's sentiments regarding the tough losses this season. 
"The losses are disappoint­ing, but we somewhat expected it. We're a brand-new team that needs match experience," she said. "We can't dwell on these losses. We have to suck it up and ask 'What did we do wrong?' Hopefully, we can fig­ure it out by Sunday." 
The Belles will receive extra motivation Sunday from cher­ished fans and friends. 
"We're excited, too," Palombo said. "Last year's graduated players are return­ing to watch the match." 
Meanwhile, Stevenson is focused on the technicalities of the matches. 
"We change our game plan for each opponent," she said. "On Sunday, we have to play our best, and our players real­ize that." 
Contact Patrick McCabe at pmccabe@nd.edu 

Anention Class of 2001 
, 

Now Accepting Applications for 
JPW 2006 Committee 
Help select the committee, theme, decorationst speakers, food and everything else for your Junior Parents Weekend! 
Fill out an application this week in the Student Activities OfficeJ 315 LaFortune, or call631-7308 for more details. 
Applications Due MONDAY, APRIL 18TH at 5:00pm. 
.......... ....................................................------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
..

Friday, April 15, 2005 page 19 
The Observer + SPORTS 

ND MEN's TRACK 
Irish to compete in Mt. SAC race 
By JOHN EVERETT Sports Writer 
Five Notre Dame men will compete in one of the largest. and most prestigious track meets in the world this week­end. The Mount San Antonio College (Mt. SAC) Helays com­mence today and will contin­ue through Sunday night. 
Adam Currie, Tim Moore, Eric Morrison, Selim Nurudeen and Sean O'Donnell will represent Notre Dame at the meet in Walnut, Ca. Currie will run in the 800-meters, and Moore and O'Donnell will both com­pete in the 5,000 meters. Morrison will run the 1,500 meter's, while Nurudeen takes his normal place in the 110-meter hurdles. There are no field athletes making the trip to California. 
The meet will feature stu­dent-athletes from colleges all across the country and many other competitors from all over the globe. 
The Irish will compete against runners from Air Force, Arkansas, Boston College, Duke, Florida, Florida State, Michigan, Michigan State, Stanford, USC and many others. There will also be competitors rep­resenting the nations of Canada, China, Japan and a 
· host of others. Jn addition to these two groups, there will also be teams of athletes sponsored by Nike, Heebok and athletic apparel compa­nies. 
Notre Dame will send a much larger contingent to the Indy Relays in Indianapolis, a meet hosted by Butler University on April 16. 
On the track, Chris .Jaeques and Tommie Lee will lead Notre Dame in the 100-meter dash. Geoff Bennett will run in the 110-meter hurdles, and the trio of Todd Ptacek, Kaleb VanOrt and Jake Watson will compete in the 1500-meters. 
Notre Dame will also have a strong presence in the field competitions at Indy. Along with Derek Goguen in the javelin, the Irish will have a bevy of hammer throwers competing. Chip Hoberts, Kyle Annen, Garrett Koxlien, Michael Schubert and Kevin Moffitt will all participate in the event. Irish jumpers will include Dave Viken and Justin Oppel in the pole vault and Chris Jacques and Chris Staron in the high jump, with Jacques also competing in the 
long jump.  
Hammer  thrower  Kevin  
Moffitt explained the  reason  
behind the split.  ·  

"Mt. SAC is more of a national meet, and therefore has higher qualifying stan­dards," Moffitt said. "Indy is a more local meet and is a good opportunity for us to get out there and work on improving our Big East or Hegional qualifying times." 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
California, here they come. 
For the second time this sea­
son, a portion of the Notre Dame 
women's track team will be trav­
eling west to compete in a meet 
in California. Much like the 
Stanford Invitational earlier this 
season, this weekend's Mt. San 
Antonio College Relays in 
Walnut, Ca. will feature NCAA­
level competition. The Mt. SAC 
Helays is recognized as one of 
the premier events on the col­
lege track schedule, both for its 
size -more than 100 teams will 
be represented ·_ and its level of 
competition. Many post-colle­
gians run in the meet along with 
some of the best athletes from 
colleges across the country. 
Irish coach Tim Connelly 
spoke highly of the meet. 
"Conditions are always perfect 
for fast times, and it is always a 
great environment out there," 
Connelly said. "They always get 
a lot of fans out -people who 
are really interested in track." 
Connelly will bring his best 
athletes this weekend, as a 
select group of nine has been 
chosen take on the elite competi­
tion. While he spoke highly of all 
the athletes competing this 
weekend, Connelly was especial­
ly excited for Kerry Meagher. 
"It'll be a big weekend for 
Kerry," Connelly said. "She'll get 
her first chance to run against 
some really tough competition." 
Meagher was an All-American at 1,500 meters last spring, but a lingering cross-country injury has limited her time on the track . this season. The senior ran her first race of the track season two weeks ago at Purdue and was 
victorious in the 1,500. 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 

Meagher to lead team in event 

The Irish will also be looking for strong performances from Stephanie Madia and Sunni Olding in the 5,000 meters, Katie DeRusso in the steeple­chase, Lauren King-in the 10,000 meters, Okechi Ogbuokiri in the 200 and 400 meters, Maryann Erigha in the 100 and 200 meters, Emily Loomis in the high jump and Petra Dankova in the triple jump. All of these ath­letes are expected to push for NCAA qualifications this week­end. 
The team will be in California through Sunday as the size of the meet requires three days of competition. 
Connelly discussed the pros and cons of the long weekend. 
"The travel will be tough on the girls," he said. "Anytime you have to go that far in a weekend it's difficult, and we'll have to be careful and make sure the girls recover next week in training. 
"But it also gives people like Okechi a chance to run two com­petitive races on separate days [Friday and Sunday]. She'll be able to recover for her second race." 
The rest of the Irish squad will travel to Butler University for the Indy Relays on Saturday. This meet will be much smaJler, featuring schools exclusively from the Midwest, and will have only running events. The goal of this meet will be to qualify ath­letes for the Big East meet, an attainable goal for many team members. 

With the Irish inching closer to the end of the season, Connelly likes his team's position. 
"We had a good two weeks of training and I can see that we're heading in the right direction," he said. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 

Tabe your success 
to the next level 
You've worked hard to succeed in colJege, and you expect more success as you take the next step-your badtclor:s degree. 
Saint M.ary's understands the unique needs of transfer students. \Ve're offering a program especiaHy for stu&~nls considering the next step in their college education-an event desigr1ecl and hosted by students and alumnae who transferred to Saint Marys. 
join us on Tuesday, April 19 for an 'evening featuring 
•C.::nnpus 
tours 


•
Dinner in the new Student Center 

•A 
personal welcmne fron1 President Carol Ann Mooney 

•
Answers from: -Students and alumnae who transferred to Saint tvtarv's 


J 

-Admission counselors -Acaden1ic advisors -Financial aid counselors 
-1±1-· SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
wv."w.samrmarys.edu 



Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Akhmatova, 
· Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, Prokofiev, 
Chagall, Pavlov, Baryshnikov.. 
N.A.S.A. Payload Specialist, 
U.S. Arms Control Liaison, World Bank Investment Adviser. 
WHAT DO THEY HAVE IN COMMON? 
RUSSIAN 
RUSSIAN 101, FALL 2005 NO PREREQUISITE 
http://www.nd.edu/--grl 
• 

Huskies 
continued from page 24 
World Series in Omaha, Neb. Turnarounds happen. They can be done. 
Notre Dame hopes to start its tear Saturday when it faces Big East foe the Connecticut Huskies (21-11, 4-4 Big East) in a pivotal weekend series at home. 
"We really have to cultivate a sense of urgency about the rest of the season because it's time to light the fire and kick the tires about this thing," junior pitcher Tom Thornton said. 
"We still believe that we have a team that can do great things. We've got a lot of young guys on the team that are really coming into their own. Right now I think we're really kind of starting to hit our stride after last weekend taking two out of three from [Boston College]." 
The Irish take the diamond Saturday at noon for a double­header and Sunday at noon for the final game. Thornton (3-4) will start the second Saturday game, while sophomore Dan Kapala takes the mound for the opener. Sophomore Jeff Manship will try to earn his first win in the Sunday game. 
Connecticut is coming off a 6­2 victory over Central Connecticut State Thursday. The Huskies snapped a three-game losing streak with the win. The Huskies are led on offense by outfielder Tony Mallozi who is batting .389. Infielder Jeff Hourigan is batting .325. Huskie ace lefty Rich Sirois holds a 5-2 record and a team-leading 43.2 innings pitched. He has also rung up 32 strikeouts. 
~ 
i 
1/ 
'i 
.,
,, 
1} 'I 
'( 
I I I I 
In his last performance, Thornton hurled a complete­game outing against his home state team. 
"After the game, there were about fifteen of my friends and family there. My dad and my mom, who can't come to a lot of baseball games, were there," he said. "It was great to be back home. It was a lot of fun to get some quality wins against a good team like that." 
He believes the team is confi­dent and poised to make a move up in the Big East standings this weekend. 
"I think without a doubt we're very positive about this. I believe I can go in and get the job done any time against any opponent," Thornton said. "It's going to be a big weekend for us just like last weekend -really like every weekend from here on out. We've really got to come to grips with that. We need these games." 
Taking the series from the Huskies would move the Irish out of the middle of the confer­ence standings and into the upper tier. They sit half a game ahead of Connecticut and half a game behind Villanova, and bet­ter yet, only two and a half games back of Big East leader St. John's. 
"The focus is totally on Connecticut now. If we get the job done this weekend, we can put ourselves in a pretty decent position," coach Paul Mainieri said. 
Thornton put it a little more bluntly. 
"We're looking forward to get­ting down to business on Saturday," he said. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

The Observer + SPORTS 
Backs 
continued from page 24 
preparing for the regular sea­son." 
Directly overseeing their work is Michael Haywood, the Irish offensive coordinator and running backs coach. Haywood first saw time in Notre Dame Stadium as a player, winning letters in 1982 and 1984-86. Most recently, he was the run­ning backs coach at the University of Texas, as well as the Longhorns' special teams coordinator and recruiting coordinator. 
"The players are extremely coachable -they're willing and eager to learn," Haywood said. "I think they're getting better, understanding blocking schemes ... [and] where the free defenders are. I think they're getting better as a team." 
The Irish rushed for 1,529 yards on 460 attempts last sea­son, culminating in 17 touch­downs. 
Seven of those scores came from Walker. The freshman had a brilliant breakout sea­son, starting with his two­touchdown debut in the Irish upset of Michigan on Sept. 11. 
"In a sense I have to prove myself," he said. "Coming last year, I had to learn the new system coming in, I kind of got comfortable with it. Now, I go on to something else." 
Despite the fresh start in 2005, however, Walker has set high expectations for himself and his contributions to the team. 
"Maybe people are expecting me to do a little better than I did last year, but at the same time it's something [where] I'm embracing the challenge," he said. 

Haywood has worked to develop a strong relationship with the running backs as a unit within the offense, speak­ing of them only as a unit. 
"We try to speak of them as a group," he said, declining to comment on individual progress in the spring prac­tices. 
Walker said the running backs have 
Friday, April 15, 2005 

The players are not the only ones facing transitions as the season progresses. This is Haywood's first time as an offensive coordinator, and he will work under a first-time head coach who saw phenome­nal success as an offensive coordinator in the NFL. 
"It's been a pretty smooth transition," Haywood said. "Having the opportunity to work for Nick Saban, who worked under Bill Belichek, there's a lot of similarities [in 
the system] ... in 

embraced the the day to day
"'The kind ofplayers
group mentality. work schedule,
we have here, the
"When you're understanding out there, run­kind of unity we the offensive ning backs will philosophies."
have here, we kind of 
switch off, some­Haywood made
push each other and
one will get tired the change to the and things like we want each other double duty of that," Walker to do well.,, offensive coordi­said. "Regardless nator and run­of what's going ning backs 
Darius Walker
on on the field, coach. it's a group running back "Coach Weis 
effort ... The kind of players we have here, the kind of unity we have here, we kind of push each other and we want each other to do well, so it is like a family." 
As offensive coordinator of the New England Patriots, Weis had running back Corey Dillon play a key role in the championship-winning sea­son. He has a specific idea of how Walker and the running backs will fit into his offensive strategy. 
"I think that our running backs, starting with Darius, have very good instincts," he said. "I think they have a lot of natural running skills but you also have to force-feed where you want them to go and not give them too much freedom." 
• 

has been a really good mentor, he gives a great direction," Haywood said. "It's been outstanding, and just coaching running backs is a usual thing, an everyday sort of deal." 
The concept of teamwork is one thing that Walker and the running backs will take out of spring practice -perhaps the most important first lesson Haywood can teach. 
"I thin~ that we're coming together as a team more, a lit­tle different than we were last year, we're pushing each other," Walker said. "I think the team unity has definitely grown." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
PERSPECTIVES 
9:00am • April20, 2005 • Center for Continuing Education (McKenna Hall), Room 100 • University ofNotre Dame 
FEATURED SPEAKERS: 
Yuri Balashov, Department ofPhilosoplry, University ofGeorgia, USA • Ikaros Bigi, Department of Physics, University of Notre Dame, USA Harvey Brown, Faculty of Philosophy and Wolfson College, Oxford University • Jeremy Butterfield, Faculty ofPhilosophy and All Souls College, Oxford University Sean Carroll, Department of Physics, University of Chicago, USA • Peter Garnavich, Department ofPhysics, University of Notre Dame, USA Joel Primack, Department of Physics, Uuiversity ofCaliforttia, USA • Bill Stoeger, Vatican Observatory, University ofArizona, USA 
Contact: (574) 631-6788 • www.jinaweb.org • (574) 631-5015 • reilly@nd.edu 
Sponsored by: /INA. (Joint Institute ofNuclear Astrophysics: an NSF Physics frontier ce1zter) 

~UNIVERSITY OF
CANDU (Center for Astrophysics at Notre Dame) 

WNOTREDAME
Department ofPhysics History & Philosophy ofScience Graduate Program 

Friday, April 15, 2005 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 

ND MEN's GoLF 
Baldwin's performance at Warren typical of game 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Golfers worldwide know Masters' Saturday as "Moving Day." 
This year, Moving Day was the perfect title not just for Tiger Woods' move into contention at Augusta, but also for Mark Baldwin's move into the record books with a stellar round for Notre Dame at the Warren Golf Course. 
Playing against Texas Christian in a dual-match com­petition Saturday, Baldwin went out on a tear and etched his name in the Irish annals, shoot­ing a seven-under 63. 
"Everything just really fell into place," Baldwin said. "I felt comfortable." 
He felt so comfortable that it wasn't until the 13th hole when he realized just how impressive his round was. 
"Quite honestly, I really didn't know where I stood until the 13th hole," he said. 
After two birdies in his previ­ous three holes, teammate Eric Deutsch opened Baldwin's eyes to his unknowing pursuit of a record. 
"Eric said to me, 'Dude, you have a chance to shoot 59 today if you birdie the last five out of six,'" Baldwin said. 
He would not pull off that feat, but he would birdie two more and bogey only one to reach seven-under on his round, set­ting a slew of records in the process. 
His front nine on the par-70 course put him in the rare waters of having a chance at such a feat as a 59, as he made an eagle and two birdies to make the turn in 31. 
After several holes of stellar iron play to start the round, Baldwin finally got momentum with a 50-foot birdie putt on the fourth hole, and he followed that up with a chip-in eagle on five. 
"That was kind of how I got my round jump-started," he said. "The first fe.w holes, I hit it pretty close but missed a few putts. Then I hit a 50-footer to finally get under par." 
One hole later, he chipped in from just off the green for an eagle, reaching three-under through five. 
With an improbable birdie on the 185-yard, par-3 ninth, he had reached four-under at the turn. 
"That shot isn't really a shot that fits anyone's eye well,.. he said. "Just to get it on the green, you're pretty happy. 
"I hit a smooth six iron to four feet and made birdie." 
At that point, he could have 

ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 
~--~~~~------------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. 1 lam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-in • Take-Out • Catering 
--------------~~~~·~----------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Taboul4 Meat Pie, Spinach Pie and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie W~ North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 

High Speed Wireless Internet ComputerCenter w/high spee9 internet Gated Community • Free Tanning Close to Notre Dame • Racquetand Handball Courts Relaxing Jacuzzi and Sauna New Fitness Center • Beach Volleyball Sparkling Heated Pool • Use of Indoor Heated Pool ShortTerm Fully Furnished 1 &.2 Bedroom Suites 
Open 7 Days a Week www .cppj .com Call NOW 574-272-8110 

played the back in even-par and still have tied the course record. But that was not his intention in the least. 
Baldwin said that he was unable to maintain good starts to rounds earlier in the year because he was too focused on posting a specific score. 
"I had been concentrating too much on posting a number or parring out to shoot a number," he said. "That probably led to the downfall of those rounds." 
He didn't have that problem this time because he wasn't thinking about his round in those terms Saturday. 
Playing in the same group as Baldwin was Deutsch. "I got to see that round first hand," he said. "It was amazing." 
Deutsch was most impressed with the way Baldwin tontinued to attack even when he had reached deep into red figures. 
"It was very impressive to watch [Baldwin] handle him­self," he said. "Usually people get nervous· when they are under par like that, but he wanted to make more birdies." 
Baldwin stayed aggressive, going after pins and taking firm strokes on his putts. 
Thanks to that style, the back saw Baldwin sink four more birdie putts and make his only blemish -a bogey -for a 32 on the back and a 63 for his morning 18. 

While that score beat the 42­year-old, all-time Notre Dame record by a single stroke, it demolished the eight-month-old Warren Course record by three. 
Previously, Notre Dame's school record for a round belonged to Mike O'Connell. In a quadrangular match on May 4, 1963, O'Connell fired a 64 at the old Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
Indiana's Jeff Overton set the previous competitive round course record on September 1 9, 2004, posting a four-under 66 en route to a second-place finish at the Notre Dame Invita-tion­aVCentral Regional Preview. 
Both records, one time-tested and one quite recent, fell Saturday, as Baldwin played the round of his young life. 
However, he had another 18 to play that afternoon. 
"It's kind of funny, because after a 63, it's kind of difficult to know how to play a next round," he said. 
"Relative to the first round, even if you're one-over, that's not a very good score." 
In that afternoon round, Baldwin played well, but still posted a score nine strokes higher than his morning 18. 
"I was battling my swing a lit­tle bit ... but I felt I was still comfortable," he said. 
While Baldwin's 137 (63-74) on Saturday won him first place individually and Deutsch's solid 145 (72-73) was impressive, Notre Dame's afternoon round cost the team the tournament. 
The Irish went out in a stellar two-over 282, but shot a 299 in the second round. 
"It was a really nice opportu­nity for us to get a nice win with TCU, ranked 10 or 11 in the country," Baldwin said. 
In a reversal of fortunes, TCU compensated for its opening 292 with a remarkable nine-under 271 to beat the Irish by 18. 
Baldwin was in awe of TCU's round. "Two-seventy-one is a score I didn't think I'd ever see on the Warren," he said. "It was just unbelievable." 
The nine-under for TCU came largely thanks to David Schultz, who nearly broke Baldwin's hours-old record, eventually carding a six-under 64. 
As chance would have it, Baldwin and Deutsch were in the same group with Schultz all day, and their foursome wit­nessed the two lowest rounds in course history on the same day. 
Perhaps that's only fitting -it was Moving Day. 
Two golfers moved into Warren history, and one moved into Irish lore. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

. >
Belles face tough opposition 
Saint Mary'~ to play in the Spting Fling in Bloomington, Ill. 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
Two more events stand between now and the NCAA Division III Golf Champio­nships for Saint Mary's. The Belles, who are in great posi­tion for a spot in the competi­tion, will get a chance this weekend to test their skills against some of their bigger competitors in a two-day tour­nament. Saint Mary's travels to Illinois Wesleyan University in Bloomington, Ill. today to com­pete in the annual Spring Fling. The players will tee-off at 1 p.m., and the competition continues through Saturday. 

After a disappointing loss to DePauw University last week­end, the Belles will get another chance to face them at this weekend's event. The Tigers 
are  ranked  fifth  in  the  
Division-III  ·standings  
behind Saint Mary's  - but  

defeated the Belles at the Tri­

R E S T A lJ R 'A N T 
Now Hiring Experienced Server Apply in Person 
211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
232-4445 
W\VW. SiamThaiSouthBend .cotn 
--·--... 
' 

State University Invitational a week ago. Last year, the Tigers won the Spring Fling with a team score of 303. 
Saint Mary's will have to improve their individual scores in order to compete well at the Spring Fling. 
In 2004, the top 15 individ­ual finishers at the event came in with scores ranging from 71 to 80. Saint Mary's did not compete in the event last year, but the team has had trouble scoring below the mid-eighties so far this spring. 
Senior Stefanie Simmerman brought in a score of 79 at last week's invitational, but other than that scores have ranged from 83-100. Seniors Julia Adams and Chrissy Dunham both had several mid to high­seventy rounds in the fall, and the entire team is looking to pull in lower scores across the board. 
The Spring Fling, held at the Ironwood Country Club, is a 5,832 yard, par-72 course. In addition to DePauw University, Saint Mary's will be competing against schools like Hope College, Wisconsin-Eau Claire and Illinois Wesleyan, all of whom finished in the top five last year. 
As the Belles' spot in the NCAA Championships is all but secure, the women are prima­rily looking to improve on an individual basis between now and then. This weekend should give the Belles a fairly good idea of where they stand against some of the top Division-III programs in the country and what they will need to do in order to peak at the championships in May. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @sain tmarys.edu 
Francis 
continued from page 24 
with Providence. 

Irish coach Mike Brey sup­ported Francis' decision, even if he has reservations. 
"While my gut tells me that Turin Francis is a four-year play­er for us here at Notre Dame, I fully support the decision he has made to explore the option he has of playing in the NBA next season," Brey said in a state­ment Thursday afternoon."My job now is to help him collect information on where he stands in regards to the June draft. 
' "We need to keep in mind that this is a young man that has _undergone major back surgery, and I understand that he may want to take advantage of the fact that he is healthy right now." Francis said he appreciates the support of his coaching staff. "I feel comfortable with the decision I have made to look into the opportunity of playing at the next level, because I have the full support of Coach Brey and the entire Notre Dame com­munity," Francis said in his statement. As a sophomore, Francis played in 20 games before undergoing the surgery. An all­Big East honorable mention 
SMC SOFTBALL 

! 
1 ) Struggling team loses 
1, 
9th and 1Oth straight

I r 
~ conference gatnes 
:; By TOM STILES Sports Writer 
"
1\ 
I, 
Saint Mary's (5-14, 0-10) I' I dropped both games of a dou­I' bleheader yesterday to a tal­
I I 
ented Hope College (17 -6, 8-2) IfIf 3-1 and 10-4. The two losses extended the[! Belles' losing streak to 15 
I 
games, with their last win 
I I 
coming against Emmanuel I I 
College more than a month ago 
I 
during the team's spring trip.

I I 
In the game one loss, Saint
I I I 
~( 
!? 
)~ ~~­
(
li' 
(f 
~~ 
~~­
1Ri Ri 
I' 
f 
fl 
f' 
/'! 
. jJ 
Iii 
Lax 
continued from page 24 
been real competitive and I think that's been good for us." 
Fairfield (8-2) is ranked 20th in the latest USILA coaches' poll and brings a six-game win streak, highlighted by an 11-10 overtime victory at Penn State on March 26. The Stags have made a living on close wins this year, averaging 10.38 goals per game and giving up 7.98. 
"They've had a great year," Corrigan said. "They've won four one-goal games. They're competing very well. In a cou­ple of the games they've been down three or four goals in the second half and still found a way to come back and win. I think more than anything else they're just really getting after it." 

Greg Downing and Mike Bocklet lead the Stags with 15 goals apiece on the year but no single player has stood out above the rest. 
"It's been something different for [Fairfield] in every game," Corrigan said. "They're getting very good goaltending and I think they're getting a lot of different people contributing on the offensive end." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


BRAD CARMEANfrhe Observer 

Torin Francis posts up during Notre Dame's 85-77 loss to Pittsburgh in the Joyce Center March 5. Francis said Thursday 
he will enter the NBA Draft. 
selection, he averaged 14.2 points and a team-leading 8.8 rebounds. 
In his freshman season, Francis averaged 11.1 points and 8.4 rebounds en route to earning Big East all-rookie team 
. honors. Francis has started all 83 games he has played and owns 
career averages of 11.2 points and 8.3 rebounds (931 points. and 686 rebounds). 
He is tied for fourth on the career blocked shots list with 126 and ranks fourth all-time with a 1.5 career average. 

GEOFF MATTESONfrhe Observer 
Senior Matt Malakoff fires a shot on goal against Air Force dur­
Contact Pat Leonard at 

ing the Irish's 14-13 overtime win Sunday.
pleonard@nd.edu 


Hope College sweeps doubleheader with Saint Mary's 
Mary's put up quite a battle in "We did everything great in a losing effort against one of game one, I was very happy the best teams in the MIAA. with how we played," head Freshman pitcher/first base­coach Kristi Beechy said. "We man McKenna Corrigan and were hitting the ball hard, but 
junior  center- Hope  did  too,  
fielder  Audrey  and they found  
Gajor each had a double to lead the offensive attack, with  ..We're going to keep doing the things that we're doing and keep  some more holes." Game two was a little more lop­ 
Gaj or scoring the Belles' only run.  building on our last few games."  sided as the Hope College bats touched up  
Junior pitch­erI out fie Ide r  Kristi Beechy  both Grall and Corrigan for 10  
Bridget  Grall  Belles head coach  runs. Each pitch­ 
turned in a qual­ er is still search­ 
ity pitching per­ ing for her first  

formance by scattering six hits conference victory. Gajor again over seven innings of work and had a double, and sophomore surrendering only three runs. third baseman Laura Heline 
erupted for a three-run home "We're going to keep doing run, her first of the conference the things that we're doing, 
schedule, giving  and keep build­ 
her seven RBis and tying her with sophomore  "We did everything great in game one. I  ing on our last few games," Beechy said.  
shortstop Sarah Miesle for the team lead.  was very happy with how we played.''  "We'll get a few wins at the end of the season."  
"I thought we  Next  up  for  
played well in game two," Beechy said. "I  Kristi Beechy Belles head coach  the Belles will be Bethel College over at  
give their team  Ivy Field tonight  

all the credit, Hope has some at 6 p.m. followed by a show­really good hitters. Our bats down with MIAA conference needed to be woken up a little powerhouse Alma College (19­bit." 7, 7-1) tomorrow afternoon at 
The Belles will look to get 1 p.m. their first conference win in this final stretch of the season Contact Tom Stiles at by maintaining focus. tstiles@nd. edri 

,.(f 
'I' 
H 
·.'))'( ;, 

Saturd ril 16th 
s Lacrosse vs. #3 Georgetown (GOLD ·1 PM @ 
Moose Krause Field
./ 
• First 200 fans will • First 150 fans will receive a Gold Games receive a Nalgene t-shirt1 sponsored by water bottle, 
South Bend Orthopaedics ncnrad by the WB 
• 
Rowing VS Cincinnati 
{GOLD GAME) 
Races Start @ 8AM 
Margaret Prickett Park 
• First 100 fans will receive a Gold Games t-shirt, sponsored 
by South Bend edics ........~IJ!IWII!If!IIIIP!!IIII~ 

Friday, April 15, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 ­
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
.--------------Er----~---------ur-------------....
.5 
~

CAROL, I DECIDED 
0 
WHILE WE'RE GONE I
01

TO TAKE THE ENTIRE 
@J.. YOU'LL NEED TO
E

STAFF OUT TO A FIVE­
01 
ANSWER EVERYONE'S
"0

STAR RESTAURANT 
«< PHONE.
~

FOR LUNCH. 
);l 
CHARLES SCHULZ

PEANUTS 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 31 In _(even) 59 Part of a safari party
1 Candy that, in 32 Brits' urban legend, "governors" 60 Like some fruit can be lethal 
33 Remove

when mixed with soda 34 Ratify anew DOWN 
9 Put under 36 What some 1 Furtive singers sing in summons
15 It's exactly a foot long 37 Long series of 2 Cry of troubles excitement
16 Many an "S.N.L." cast 38 Medical suffix 3 Southern bread 
member 
41 Pen fill 4 Stern 17 Short musical 
42 Beyond one's 5 Musk maker composition 
persona 

6 Marine animals18 AIa King? 44 Deal a low blow like the sea lily 
19 Comforting and feather star
45 Quickly recites words 
7 Orson Welles's
47 Special intuition, 20 Drinks akin to in modern lingo Wisconsin americanos birthplace
50 Excitements 21 Plant that's a 8 Irish moss, e.g.
55 Designatetraditional 9 Of somesymbol of 56 Field work monumentsremembrance 57 "The Conscious 10 Principal23 One to grow on Lovers" McGee'splaywright, 1722

27 Remark to portrayer in 29 Concertedly 40 Start of a strong 48 Communique whisperers 58 Pregnant "Grease" opinion segue30 English 101
11 Fast one 49 Scene of heavy 
subject 43 "How to Handle

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS""'P,....U.,..z,..,z,....L=E~ 12 Mine access W.W. I fighting 
a Woman"35 Coastal flier 51 Windmill armlyricist

H-=+*:;;+::::-4 13 Lacquered 
52 "Artaxerxes"

metalware 36 Resort to 
46 Was ready to composer
violence

14 Bridge expert blow, say 
53 Focus of someCulbertson and 

38 Wicked 
workouts

others 47 Have a sudden 39 Medicinal teas inspiration? 54 Goes with 
22 Some degs. 
~-=+-:-+:~:-4 23 Tehrani tongue 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a ~..,;;...+..,....._~,.... 24 Saved on credit card, 1-800-814-5554. supper, perhaps 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

25 Not as green Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
-=-t-:-+:-:+=+:::+:::+:-:+=+:-:-t 26 Just bread and 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).

water, e.g. 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young .....&.--'-_.__, 28 Sports solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the n1ore than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
-
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ _ 
Address ________________________________________ 
City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these fc.ur Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
You owe an A pqx on
to form four ordinary words. 
additional your house

$1000 dollars 

I I
TIHHC 
rJ 
1 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KALCH 
I [J []
tSIXECE j
J I [ 

WHA.T THE ANGRY www.jumble.com WITCH GAVE THE 
TAX C.OL-LECTOr<.
I EXDOUTj 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I [ I I I

L----L.-..uo......£.J~.£.1_-...J.......___J suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

A "[I I J"[ I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' I Jumbles: SANDY SORRY REVERE BUOYED s Answer: Where Mom took her toddler when she went shopping-TO THE "NURSERY" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sarah Michelle Gellar, 28; Robert Carlyle, 44; Brad Garrett, 45; Pete Rose, 64 Happy Birthday: It's your uniqueness that will enable you to get what you want, so don't hide your talent or try to be like everyone else. Take what you have and utilize your assets to the fullest. Once you separate yourself from the ordinary, you will see how fast you can accelerate. This year is all about taking things as they come and turning every negative into a positive. Your numbers are 9, 15, 24,38,44,47 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Vemuring out and seeing new things will stimulate you positively. You will get bored quickly, so make sure you have scheduled enough activity to hold your interest. The more you can tit in, the better. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Mix and mingle with a variety of people today. Business ideas may develop if you talk about your plans with friends, neighbors or a relative;. A short trip will help you decide whet~er you want to make a change.*** GEMINI {May 21-June 20): Put time aside for someone you really like to do things with. An interesting change r!!garding how you cam your living is evident. You may have to take a backward step to move forward in a more suitable direction. *** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): You may be emotionally confused today. You may be a collector, but you must rid yourself of some of the people af,ld items you have in your life. Only then can you make r{)()m for what's needed to move ahead. *** ' LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be walking a fine line today. On the one hand, you can make headway where relationships are concerned, hut on the other you will have to deal with authority figures. Pick your words carefully before responding to someone who could decide your future. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be a little unnerved if you are confronted with the emotional problems of others. Try to help without being judgmental or critical. You may end up being blamed if you get too involved. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Travel, attending a conference or getting together with people you find stimulating should be your goal. You will capture whatever audience you have with your grandiose ideas. This could be the start of something new and productive. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have plenty on your mind involving money or property deals. Don't Jet anyone push you into anything. You can make some promising changes to your future if you start with basics and build from there.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): There will be too much going on today. You will have to stay alert emotionally. If someone you care about feels neglected, you will have a hard time getting him or her to respond. Compliments and positive actions will be your saving grace. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't touch upon subjects you know little about. Keep things superficial, and plan something entertaining that won't encourage serious talks. Move forward in a healthier direction physically, emotionally and mentally. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do something that will help you improve your looks and raise your confidence. The more time you spend with friends, the better --~-: you will feel. Love is looking positive. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take control and stop letting everyone else have his or her say. You have valuable information to share. Someone who is too accommodating may be hanging around trying to take the glory for your actions.** Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, changeable and help others in unique and special ways. You are well-liked by those who recognize your talent and opposed by those who are jealous. You are a humanitarian and strive for your personal best. 
-

Friday, April15, 2005 page 24 
NBA DRAFT 

Francis declares draft eligiblity 
junior forzvard joins 2005 NBA Draft pool but does not hire agent 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

Notre Dame junior forward Torin Francis declared himself eligible Thursday for the 2005 NBA Draft to be held June 28. 
Francis said he does not plan to hire an agent and .has the option to withdraw from the draft until June 21. An under­classman that declares early can return to school and pull his name from the draft until a week before the draft's scheduled date as long as he does not hire an agent. 
In the meantime, Francis will continue workouts with Notre Dame and will participate in the NBA pre-draft camp June 7-10 in Chicago. 
"I feel like I owe it to myself and my family to explore this option," Francis said in a state­ment Thursday afternoon. 
The team's fourth-leading scorer this season, Francis aver­aged 9.3 points and grabbed a team-high 7.9 rebounds per game, becoming the team's lead­ing rebounder for the third straight season. 
The 6-foot-10 forward scored double figures in 14 games and grabbed 10-plus rebounds in eight games. 
Francis scored a season-high 21 points as the team's only con­sistent threat in a first round loss to Rutgers in the Big East tour­nament March 9. 
Francis also struggled at times this season, however, coming off back surgery March 8, 2004 to repair a herniated disc. 
He scored only six points against Boston College Feb. 8, one point against Pittsburgh in the team's next game and zero points in a Feb. 19 nail-biter 
see FRANCIS/page 22 
FOOTBALL 

Running -backs take center stage in spring 

Walker, Powers-Neal and others set to play 
1/
I! strong in coming year 
u
,,,, 
~· 
,~. 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

~ 
'l·
'I 
Last year, the Irish fortunes
:~ 
ran on the swift feet of running backs Darius Walker and Hyan~ Grant. ~ And despite this year's new 
1! 
,:~ 
I ) 
~: 
MEN'S GOlF 
f Junior Mark Baldwin ./;
.,, sets school and course t record with a seven­
•i 
under 63 at Warren. 
:J 
l·f 
"'
.,-, page 21
·If •I 
··t 
~R 
·t 
( 
coaching staff and fresh offen­sive playbook, the returning backs are heading full steam ahead into the spring season. 
"The thing about our team is that regardless of who's coach­ing us, we're looking ahead," Walker said. "I think last sea­son, we kind of expected to do better....This year, regardless of who's coaching us, the team is looking forward to working hard in the off-season and 
see BACKS/ page 20 
MEN'S TRACK 
Irish will send five runners to the Mount San Antonio College Relays. 
page 19 


Irish set to face Fairfield on road 
at Fairfield (Conn.) with a
Team zvill play first 
week of rest and preparation ganze since overtime behind them. 
"We're kind of enjoying the
win over Air Force opportunity we've had this week to get back and work on ourselves," Notre Dame coach
By MIKE GILLOON 

Kevin Corrigan said. "We went 
Sports Editor 

about three straight weeks where all we had time for was After playing three games in [working on] game prepara­eight days last week, the Irish tion [in] practice. There comes have stopped for a breath. a time where that starts to dis­They head into Sunday's game tract you from what you want 
to do. You spend too much time talking about other peo­ple and not enough time con­centrating on yourself." 
Corrigan believes Notre Dame (5-3, 14th USILA coach­es' poll) has benefited greatly from the downtime and is well prepared for the match. 
"We've had some real spirit­ed and fundamental prac­tices," Corrigan said. "They've 
see LAX/page 22 
fOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Star quarterback commits to Weis 
Zach Frazer joins Irish class of 2010 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

Zach Frazer, a junior quar­terback from Mechanicsburg, Pa., became the third commit­ment of Notre Dame's recruit­ing class of 201 0 Thursday. 
"He's a big strong guy," Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com said. "I don't know if the recruiting gurus will have Frazer as a top five quarterback. I'm not exactly sure where he's going to rank. But I think that (Notre Dame quarterback coach I David Cutcliffe and (head coach] Charlie Weis have far more experience evaluating talent than the recruiting gurus." 
Frazer joins running back Munir Prince and wide receiv­
er Barry Gallup in Weis' first full recruit­ing class. 
Frazer, a junior at Mechanics­burg Area 


High School, Frazer was on cam­pus for his second visit to Notre Dame this week. According to lrishEyes.com, he met with Weis on Thursday and gave a verbal commitment 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK  SMC TENNIS  
Women will travel to  Belles will face Albion  
California for the Mount  in a  conference meet  
San Antonio College  this weekend.  
Relays.  
page 19  page 18  

NBA DRAFT . _ 
Wake Forest sopho­more point guard Chris Paul declares eligibility for the NBA Draft. 
page 17 
BASEBALL 

Huskies to face Irish in big series 
By TOM DORWART 
Sports Writer 

It's not time to panic -just time to win. 
Through 32 games, the Irish hold a disappointing 17-15 overall record and a subpar 5-4 Big East Conference record. While Notre Dame might not have the all-American pitching and the all-American catcher that last year's national champi­ons had, the Irish can look on the bright side of things. 
The Cal State Fullerton Titans were a dismal 16-16 at this point last season. Fullerton went on a tear to finish the sea­son 4 7-22 and atop the college baseball world at the College 
see HUSKIES/page 20 
to the Irish. 

"He's a true pocket passer and makes a lot of plays down the field," Frank said. 
In his junior year, Frazer set a new state record for single­season passing yards. He was named Associated Press Class AAA Player of the Year, as well as the Mid-Penn Keystone Conference MVP. He was also named to the first-team Associated Press AAA All­State team. This year, he com­pleted 285 of 440 passes and racked up 3,684 yards with 27 touchdowns and nine inter­ceptions. He also rushed for 12 touchdowns. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
BOOKSTORE BBALl 

Judas betrays the "Apostles" in loss to "Best Hands." 
page 16 
-------------------------------------....~ 




