
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 38 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13,2005 STUDENT SENATE 

Proposed $15 activities fee increase approved 
Money will fund College Readership Program 


By MADDIE HANNA A~sociate News Editor 
Urgml by one studnnt govnrn­lll111lt vntnran to stop waiting for the perfect solution, tlw Student Snnatn passnd a pro­posnd $15 increasn in Notre Danw's studnnt activities fop to implemnnt tho Collogo Hoadorship Program at its Wednnsday night mooting. 

Senior Vijay Hamanan, the Senators raise their hands in support of a $15 increase to the studont delegate to tho 
student activity fee. 


Petition filed by musicians 
1\y JANICE fLYNN New' Writt•r 
T lw thought of doing honwwork hntwnPn a trum­Jll'l player and pianist would lw Pnough to makn any stu­dPnl cringn, yPl that is thn n·ality for music students who rwnd to eomplntP instru­lll<'nlal and vocal assign­nH•nts, according to a lnttnr writltm to tlw administration hy two musir minors. 
NParly 200 signatures havn lwnn colltH'tl'd in support for t111• Iotter from sophomore Heid Mnrryman and junior Ailis Twnnd-Knnt. which a p p n a Is to tlw U n i v n r s i t y administration to addrnss tlw lark of prartir11 farilitins for music majors, voral stu­dPnts and band and orrhns­lra rr11•mhnrs. 
With tlw complnlion of tlw Dnhartolo Cnntnr for the l't•rforming Arts (DPACJ and tlw Univnrsity's dndaration that Notrn Damn is in a "dnradn of llw arts." tho lnt­tm urgPs thn administration to implnnwnt that commit­mont on a daily sraln. 
BPtWI'I'n 60 music majors, :w m us i r 111 in o rs and approxinrat<dy 1,200 stu­dnnts involvml in musir Ins­sons and nns<•mblns, rurnmt prartirn farilitins arn not adnquatn, tlw ll'ttl1r statPd, and tlw r o m pi n t i o n of t h n I>I'AC did not allnviatn tlw pro h ltnn lw eau s 11 i l I a e k s praeticn rooms. 
"Wn arc1 nxtrnml'ly gratnful for thn opportunity to per­form and attPrHI corH~nrts in tlw II>I'ACI; hownv11r, music studm1t.s usn thnsn pPrform­ing vcn1u11s at most one11 a wnek," thn lnttnr said. "Daily individual praeticn is the 
see MUSIC/page 4 

University's Aeademie Couneil 
and formor chair of tho S11nat.n A<:adnmic Affairs eommittee, addrossnd senators with tho snasoned pnrspnctivn of sonw­ono who undnrstands both sue­eoss and frustration. lin was a driving !'oren bnhind tlw thrnn­woek pilot Collngn Hnadnrship Program last spring. 
")(' you'rn waiting around to do rnsnareh for a bnttor pro­gram. you're not going to find it," Hamanan said. "You havn a good solution with a vnry good 
see SENATE/page 8 

Changes await Trustees 
Presentation focuses on local relationship 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Following a summer of swnnping dnvAiopmnnts in the rnlationship between South Bend residents and Notrn Damn studnnts. student gov­ernmnnt leadors will zero in on eommunity relations in tlwir fall rnport to the Board of Trust11ns (BOT) today. 
Arnwd with an 11-pagn documnnt titiPd "Thn 
see BOARD/page 4 


Student body president, vice president join Board for two meetings 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
Following y11ars of student govPrnmPnt campaign prom­ises to place a student on N 0 t I'11 )) a niP.s B ()a r d 0 f Trustn11s -which inspired both support and skepticism throughout the studnnt body -two students will partici­patl1 in selected trusto11 ses­sions today and Friday, as thn studnnt body prnsident and 
vke president's role as ex oli­eio members of the Board's Stud1mt Affairs Committ11e has expanded this year. 
In past years, communica­tions bntw1111n students and th11 University's governing body occurred in the form of rP.ports to the Board's Student Affairs Committee, issued thnw times a ynar by tlw curnmt student govern­rnl1nt administration on a topic of its choice. While reports still will bn deliv11rnd this year at thP. Student Affairs Committee's aftnrnoon sessions. student body pr11si­dent Dave Baron and vice president Lizzi Shappl'll will also attend selnetl'd morning sP.ssions of the Executive Committee, comprised of trustees, tho Vice Presidl'nt for Student Affairs and tho s11nior staff of the Office of StudP.nt Affairs. Baron and Shappoll will attend these 
sec TRUSTEES/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Group to work for fair pay 
By LUISA CABRERA 
News Writer 
Stuart Mora's strong lwlil'l' in soc~ial justkn and thn 11111~d to fight for worknrs' rights inspirl'd him t.o takn part in a renmtly-formnd organization on Notn1 I>anw's campus calll'd thn Campus Labor Aelion Plan, or CJ AI'. 
Along with s11v11ral oth11r Notrn Dame students, Mora be I itWlHI Notrn I> am n was missing a way of 1msuring that th11 Univnrsity's labor and wagl' standards wern main­tainml fairly. Finding inspira­tion in Living Wagl' Campaign-a nationwidl' eiTort striving to 11radicat11 pov11rty wages on mllegn t~arn­pusP.s throughout the Unit11d Stat<~s-tlw studnnts doeided to form an organization that would foster these goals and work to providn justien for workers on the Notrn Damn campus, speeil'ir.ally serviee and maintnnancn staiT. 
"Wn would likn to 11nsurc that all rnnmbnrs of the Notrn Damn family am trnatnd with the respect that a member of such a family dnserves," said Mora, a sophomorn. 
CLAP, whieh wcdronws worker·s, stud<mts. faculty, alumni and othnr allins com­mitted to working around labor justice issuns on rampus, has pushed for nwntings with University administrators and attracted both support and doubts from rampus workers thinnselves. 
Committee members of CLAP will meet with Frances Shavers, exncutivn assistant to University PresidP.nt Father John Jenkins, and Bob MeQuadn, assoeiatn vice presi­dent of lluman Hesourcns, this month to discuss thn various goals and idnas of tlw organi­zation. 
"Wn think that is the propm forum for discussing tlwsn 
see LABOR/page 9 

USC ticket demand prompts sales 
By KATIE LINHARES 
News Wrirer 
Notrn Damn will become tlw eircus of green. blue and gold that is typical of home football ganws this weekend. 
Though the game is the nrost antieipatnd matehup of thn season, however, not all students will attend to see the Irish takn on the Trojans Saturday. 
The Notre Dame ticket office opened at 7 a.m. on Ort. 4 for all students intnr­nstl1d in exchanging thnir stud1mt ticket for a gnneral admission tickot. Students could approach the ticket counter and receive a linn positioning ticknt with a time to return and trade in their studnnt tieket for a genoral admission liekot. 
"This system of linn posi­tioning was imposed to avoid long lines and absence from elasses," said Josh Berlo, 
see TICKETS/page 6 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

It Ina tters 
"At its best. journalism combines the thrill of the hunt with the nobility of pur­pose," said Shelby Coffey III, former vice president of ABC News. 'Through jour­nalism, wrongs can be righted, bril­liance celebrated, the powerful held Tom Dorwart accountable." 
More succinctly put-"Journalism Sports Writer really matters," said Tom Johnson, former chairman and CEO of CNN News Group and publisher and CEO of The Los Angeles Times. "There is a major public service side to what we do." 
They work vigorously until four in the morning multiple nights a week. They write columns, previews, wraps and news articles nearly every night. For your viewing/reading pleasure, they put out 28 pagers (or more). They put out detailed, knowledgeable, yet concise Irish Insiders before and after every football game. They've covered Fr. Jenkins' Inauguration, the Pope's death, the 2004 Presidential Election and the next Jordan Auditorium speaker all with the same vigor, all with the same devot­edness -the same feeling of obligation to report to you the reader. 
They put out a thorough, nearly per­fect campus newspaper daily -for you. 
Yet they have midterms, term papers and labs just as you do. They have at least 15 credit hours just as you do. And they want to hang out with friends just as you want to. 
They are The Observer editors, writ­ers and staffers. They are students, friends. 
And journalists. 

These journalists go to five classes a week, keep up with homework and proj­ects, maintain a healthy social life, and, at the same time, work production until four or five in the morning, write their beats and edit other stories. The work­load is so outrageous, it's just downright unbelievable they can do it. Frankly, it's beyqnd amazing. 
While you and I are studying in the library until two in the morning or play­ing hallway whiffieball until three, they'll still be working, typing away in the basement of South Dining Hall. When you're sleeping, they'll be listen­ing to Kanye West or Dave Matthews ­plugging away on the next day's paper. When the sun's rising, they'll just then be heading home, finally -to sleep for the few hours they can before class. 
Maybe next time you pick up a copy and skim it at lunch with friends, you'll think of all the hard work that went into just one issue, let alone one article or . one layout. Rather than take your daily source of campus news for granted, maybe you'll thank the people who sac­rifice for the sake of journalism. 
Next time you rip The Observer for 
making a spelling error or for screwing 
up a headline, maybe you'll remember 
the journalisVstudent you are ridiculing 
probably sits next to you in Chemistry or 
Bio lab. They stand in line with you at 
the dining hall. Or they rush the field 
with you at a football game. 
And remember, most of the time, the 
daily campus newspaper is nearly per­
fect. Its job is to tell, as Carl Bernstein, 
co-author of The Final Days and All the 
President's Men, says, "the best obtain­
able version of the truth." And that's 
what it does. Its job is to give you infor­
mation and entertainment. And that it 
does. 

Throughout modern history, journal­
ism has helped shape the classes we 
take and the subjects we debate. After 
covering baseball and volleyball, work­
ing production late and editing articles 
at ungodly hours, I'm taking a break 
from journalism for the time being. 
Hopefully soon I'll do journalism again. 
But until then, I'll respect the heck out 
of it and the people who do it. I've real­
ized one thing -journalism matters. It 
matters so much more than you'd think. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdor­
wart@nd.edu. 

The views expressed in the inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 13, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST SPOT TO SHOW ON A CAMPUS TOUR AND WHY? 



Thomas McCall  Jenny Keegan  Daniel Negret-Coles  Tom Bodart  Pamela Jefson  Diana Robinson  
junior Dillon  senior off-campus  junior off-campus  senior Zahm  senior Walsh  senior Lewis  
"The giant granite ball in Co-Mo."  "The computer cluster in Fitz[patrick Hall of  "BP, because they will never go there on their own."  ''The Grotto, because it captures the essence ofthe  "The erg porch in Loftus, because it's always a good  "The Dining Hall, because they might be hungry. "  

Engineering}, University. " 
because it smells delicious. " 


KIRSTEN HOELMER!The Observer 
Saint Mary's junior soccer player Mary Esch greets fans on the field after the Belles 9-1 defeat of Tri-State Oct. 1. 
OFFBEAT 
Professor finds two-headed rattlesnake 
SAN ANGELO, Texas ­Angelo State University is getting an unusual addi­tion to its collection of rep­tiles and amphibians: a two-headed rattlesnake. 
Chris McAllister, a visit­ing professor of biology at Angelo State University in San Angelo, said he found the snake after turning over 400 to 500 rocks last month at a Christoval-area ranch, where he and stu­dents were scouring for interesting specimens. 
While two-headed rat snakes and king snakes are relatively common, a 
two-headed rattler is not, McAllister said. 
The tiny Western dia­mondback rattler, about as thick as an adult human finger, was less than a foot long and appeared to be a month old, he said. The heads were fused at the neck and functional. although the left head seemed to be the more dominant. 
Arkansas woman gives birth to 16th child 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. ­Michelle Duggar just delivered her 16th child, and she's. already thinking about doing it again. 
Johannah Faith Duggar was born at 6:30 a.m. Tuesday and weighed 7 pounds, 6.5 ounces. 
The baby's father, Jim Bob Duggar, a former state representative, said Wednesday that mother and child were doing well. Johannah's birth was especially exciting because it was the first time in eight years the family has had a girl, he said. 
Jim Bob Duggar, 40, said he and Michelle, 39, want more children. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0:: 
LIJ 
:::1: 
~ 
LIJ 
~ 

~
..... 
<C 
CJ ...J 0 ·HIGH 65 HIGH 60 
HIGH 67 
LOW 55 LOW 50 LOW 45 
time." 
IN BRIEF 
Actor Jim Caviezel, star of "The Passion of the Christ." is coming to Notre Dame's Grotto tonight at 6:45 p.m. to partici­pate in the rosary and speak about his spiritual journey. The rain location for this event is Washington Hall. 
The Preservation Hall Jazz Band brings its traditional New Orleans jazz to Leighton Concert Hall tonight at 9 p.m. Tickets are $15 for all students. 
As a tradition of football weekends, on Friday at 4:30 p.m., Notre Dame's marching band will march out from the front of the Main Building heading through campus to its practice in the Joyce Center Parking Lot. 
Notre Dame's student year­book "The Dome" celebrates its 1 OOth anniversary this year and historic copies will be on display before all home football games this fall in the Dooley room of LaFortune from 10 
a.m. until noon. 
Weather permitting, the foot­ball pep rally will be held at Notre Dame Stadium Friday. Doors open at 5 p.m., and the rally begins with student cheers at 6 p.m. Students are asked to enter through Gate E. The rain location for this event is the Joyce Center. 
Composer and conductor Marvin Hamlisch will perform at the Leighton Concert Hall onFriday night at 9:00 p.m. Tickets for this show are $15 for all students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


~ 

HIGH 62 HIGH 
70 

LOW 43 LOW 
49 

Atlanta 81 1 45 Boston 58 I 54 Chicago 61 I 55 Denver 38 I 33 Houston 87 I 67 Los Angeles 74 I 58 Minne~polis 60 I 42 New York 65 160 Philadelphia 67 I 59 Phoenix 83 I 59 Seattle 60 I 51 St. Louis 66 I 57 Tampa 90 I 78 Washmgton 67 I 62 
------------------------------------~------~--­
Thursday, October 13, 200'5 

Professor addresses financing 
Para (r;1Wtf ' a11 state to utilize expertise 
\p<Tial to J'h<· Oh.'<·rvrr AI tltP I'I'!(UPSI. of lltP Paraguayan govPrnmPnl . . lilllmy Curulr;, profPssor of law al litP llnivr•rsitv of NolrP llanH', will spPak ·lli'L 
I:i lo 20 lo govPrnmPntal, polil'r·, banking and Pdul'a­tion grottps in thai l'ountry on monPy laundPring and tlw linanl'ing of tPrrorists. 
(;urulr; will dPiivPr a talk titiPd "MonPy l.aundPring and tiH• <;lohal l·:ffort to Stop 'I'Prrorist l;inanl'ing" lo Minister l!ngl'lio lknitez Vargas and ollwr nH·ml)('rS of thP Ministry of' the lntPrior: ol'l'il'ials in the (;r•npral Prosnl'utor's Ol'lin~. tltP BankPrs' Association on Paraguay, tlw Ministry of lltP TrPasury and till' l;inanrial lntPIIigPnr·n Unit; and studPnts and farulty at till' Catltolir Univnrsity of' Asunrion l.aw Srhool. lin also will mnd with Paraguayan VirP Pn~sident l.uis Castiglioni. 
Till' Paraguayan govnrn­mPnt rlll'I'PIItly is promot­ing a r·orH'PrtPd pf'fort to dPVPiop monPy laundnring I a w s a n d P n I'o r r n m rn1 t aVI' IIlii'S. 

The Observer + NEWS page 3 
BelleAire provides wireless access 

CHELSEA GULLING/The Observer Christina Ramos works on her laptop in the Saint Mary's Student Center Wednesday. The wireless network BelleAire allows students and faculty to access the College network in classroom buildings and common floors without the complication of cables. 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 

Oncn immobilized by cable eonls and outlot loeations, Saint Mary's laptop owners arr1 now frnn to roam campus and work wlwrn tlwy plnasn. 
Thn Collngn installed a nnw win~lr1ss rwt.work this year eallnd BnlleAirn. Thn network allows lap­top usnrs to have wirnlnss intnrnnt eonnortions in various designatnd awas on campus. 
Tlw nnw BnllnAirn wirPinss nnt­work is available to all studnnts, faculty and stall' with a wirnlnss­nnahlnd notnhook eomputnr. It is 
·Live Music -Free Food -Fisher Feats -lnftatabtes -Dunk Tank 
also available to guests of the campus between X a.m. and 6 p.m. 
"I bnliovo the greatest advan­tagn is obviously grnatnr aeenss," said l>irr~ctor of Information Tedmology Keith Fowlkes. "Our Collego community can sr1curely access the campus rwtwork and tho lntnrnnt from almost any­whme on campus. Being abln to gnt online where you most want to do your work can bn a grnat assnt to crnativity and scholarship." 
Prior to thn BelleAin~ wiroless network, Saint Mary's usnd a b<L'>ic wirnd network connnction. This new connection, hownver, is quicknr and morn nllkiont. 

"Evon though wn support both the X02.11 b and X02.11 g win1lnss standards, wirod nntwork connnc­tions continue to lw higlwr in sp11ed than wirnlnss connections in gnneral," Fowlkns said. 
Freshman Laurnn Cilmorn said the addition of the wirnlnss nnt­work hm; been hnlpful. 
"It is so much na<>inr to study in difTnrrmt places sinen there are morn places around campus whnrn we ean bn eonnnetnd," Gilmore said. 
Thesn nPw wimlnss hoL<>poL'> arP only accnssible from public arn<L'i since studenl'> havn quieknr win~d connections in their residence halls at tlu~ presrmt time. 
"Wp do not plan to go wirPinss in t.Jw n•sidPnrr• halls. lwraus1• tlw connr1ctions art• already faster," Fowlkes said. 
Classroom buildings and com­mon lloors of rr~sidPnco ha lis arP configurPd with tlw wirl'lnss nPI.­work. 
"Thn wireiPss capabilitins around campus arP wry prart.ir:al and hnlpful to all the students." fmshman Dana Krilir:h said. "It's dnlinitnly an advantagn to lw ablr~ to takn my laptop around campus and bn eonnrH~tPd wlwn I'm not always in my room." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.cdu 

-Raffle The, Chad Sharon and Tim Solick
... .... . .. 

-Dodgeball Memorial Scholarships Tournament American cancer Society 



page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 13, 2005 
ages eviction after the notice to abatn, it will only cause more

Board 
resentment." 
llowevnr, this summer also
continued from page 1 
saw positive changes for Notre Stranger Next Door: An Damn community relations Examination of the also emphasized in the report. Helationship Betwnon Notre Baron's work to create a part­Damn Students and the South nership with South Bend Bend Community," student Public Transportation body prnsident Dave Baron Corporation (Transpo) resulted and a tnam of in free routes four student citywide for I~~ ad e rs will students 
prnsent the Student All'airs Committee of tho Board of  "We feel [the ordinance} will do more to drive students away from  wishing to go off-campus. Measures like those are a  
Trustnos with  residents rather than  step  in  the  
an in-depthanalysis of  slop raucous partying."  right tion,  direc­Baron  
Notrn  Dame  said.  
studonts' cur­ Dave Baron  Thn toam of  
rnnt relation­ship with  student body president  student gov­ernmnnt's top  
South  Bend  leaders  will  
residonts and  also  share  

how it must be improvnd. with the BOT the results of 
The report is two-fold. The "shocking" interviews conduct­first section, which Baron. vice ed with students. local busi­presidont Lizzi Shappell and ness owners and residents in chief executive assistant Liz the past few months. Kozlow will present, describes "We were dismayed by some the current attitudes of Notre of the results. They contained Dame students toward their a level of elitism on which South Bend neighbors and vice Notre Dame would not pride versa. itself. There were very dis­
The second section. present­paraging and classless com­ed by representatives from ments that are not indicative of VOICE -the student advisory what we're shooting for at group for the Center for Social Notre Dame." Concerns -will describe how The rather negative portrait community service can be a that these findings paint will catalyst for change and be balanced by the second part improvement. of the presentation, which will 
"This is an issue that we feel highlight the positive effects of hasn't been given much con­community service in the sideration in the past by stu­greater South Bend communi­dent government," Baron said. ty. Kate Distler and Peter "We're not talking about the Kralovec of VOICE will present relations at the level of the this section. administration and city offi­"We will provide a tangible cials, but at the raw, unpol­way that it is being improved ished level of students and res­being today," Distler said. "The idents, the tensions are high esc is a channel right now for and the relationship is not positive interaction between good." the community. If we want to 
Students returned to Notre look at remedying this larger Dame to find that the city had problem with perceptions back passed an ordinance meant to and forth, we need to look at curb off-campus student party­how it is being done well right ing in their absence. The new now." amendment only worsened the The BOT will not act imme­already fragile relationship diately on the issue. Instead, between Notre Dame students student government and and area residents, Baron VOICE hope to raise the said. board's awareness on the situ­
"We feel [the ordinance] will ation. do more to drive students "We want to make sure they away from residents, rather are aware that students are than stop raucous partying," concerned with this issue and Baron said. "Even with the that they then start dialogue additional part that encour-about it," Shappell said. 
$ FROM 
Only at allegiantair.com 
Nonstop air service from South Bend. Packages include over 30 of Vegas' most exciting 
This year's report -the first of three BOT presentations scheduled for the school year­bears striking resemblances to last fall's report, given by for­mer student body president and vice president Adam Istvan and Karla Boll and then-chief executive assistant Baron. Last fall's pn~sentation faced criticism from the Board, but the suggestions Board members provided proved very valuable, according to Baron. 
"(Last year, I · the BOT responded to us with legiti­mate concerns," Baron said. "We grew with it and built something from it. Their sup­port and feedback and how it would work was us!'ful. One of tlH~ trustees said. 'Why don't you look to the city?' and we did, and it worked out." 
But while Istvan's adminis­tration focused chiefly on off­campus safety, Baron, Shappell and Kozlow have sought a broader approach. 
"This is an issue Dave I Baron I and I planned to focus on through our platform and campaigning," Shappell said. "Dave spent two summers here. and I grew up here. Last year [the focus[ was safety, but we wanted to address the overall issue of the situation in general." 
Going into what arguably will be a major milestone for the Baron administration, the presenters were confident and optimistic. 
"We need to stay positive, to affirm that Notre Dame, while called by the world on one hand, is also called by the community," VOICE represen­tative Peter Kralovec said. "There are reasons to be dis­couraged, but there are great reasons to hope, and this report should call attention to where we are failing but also where we are striving." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


Music 
continued from page 1 

lifeblood of ensemble success, and although the opportunities that DPAC provides are phn­nomenal. the University still lacks a facility that can meet student's musical needs on a daily basis." 
Crowley llall, the University's music building, currently has 13 practice rooms. Any student may use seven of the rooms, while six are locked for piano majors only. 
Smaller than an average sin­gle dormitory room. the rooms arc adjacent and not sound­proof, making. the precise lis­tening required for musical training diflicult. 
Furthermon~. the building lacks climate control, which has required several yearly piano tunings, costing thou­sands of dollars, and damaged stored instruments. 
Four years ago, the music department worked with the College of Arts and Letters to obtain modular soundproof rooms. They placed eight in tlw band building and five in dorms. 
But a limited budget and the old age of many of the dorms created problems with space, utility connections and fire code problems, which restrict­ed the extent of their effort, band director Kenneth Dye said. 
The letter acknowledges that a new music building would solve the problem but calls for more immediate improvements -more modular practice rooms in residence halls, open rooms in non-music buildings and the renovation of current practice rooms. 
"As Notre Dame continues to attract more intelligent and talented students, the need for adequate music practice facili­ties is imperative," the letter states. "We personally know several studonts who stopped considering Notre Dame al'ter touring Crowley llall." 
While the effort is entirely student-initiated, the music faculty supports the effort. 
"It's like lab for science or a library for literature majors," Dye said. "Music students need practice rooms because that's where they do their homework. 
"To go from some of th11 donns to DeBartolo or thn band building on a January night is a bit much," Dye said. 
lie also encouraged morn practice rooms in dorms. 
"The music buildings are in three or more arnas of campus that are quite a ways apart. It's pretty easy to gnt around on a bike, but not if you play the collo. 
Music profnssors now offer their studios to students, espe­cially to dunts and quartets who cannot l'it in either tlw Crowley rooms or the sound­proof boxes, said Karen Buranskas, director of Undergraduate Learning in tlw music department and cello professor. 
Those who have been at Notre Dame for years lament the lack of progress of Crowley Hall but hope for near-future improvements. 
"I have visited high schools in the Chicago suburbs that have better facilities than we have for students here," Buranskas said. "After the demise of the graduate pro­gram, they said, 'We want to concentrate on our undergrad­uate students.' Let's do it then." 
Tweed-Kent and Merryman hope to get at least 700 signa­tures before they present their letter to University President Father John Jenkins. The letter and petition sheets are located in Crowley Hall. 
Contact Janice Flynn at Jflynnl@nd.edu 
HE CHU~CH AND SOCIAL ACTION V~BAN PLUNc;E) 
48 hour immersion in the sites and sounds of p<werty close to home 
~c;ANIZINc;, POWER.. AND HOPE 
Experience 6 days of the Gospel in action on the streets of Chicago 
0 LY C~o S S M IS S 10 N IN ED UCATIoN 
\V'ork with the outreach and education efforts of the Congregation of the Holv Cross in Arizona 

Deal with immigration and related issues on the Texas/Mexico border 
For more inf(Jrmation or to register online: ttp:/ / socialconcems.nJ.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 13, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Guatemalan cities rebuild after rain 
(;lJ;\TI~M!\1.;\ CITY -Guatemalan authori­tins turrwd to rnconstruction Wndnesday ­including relocating m1tirn villages -af'tnr a wnPk of rains )pf't mon~ than l ,000 dead or missing and dnstroyed or damaged 200,000 lwnws. 
But until the communities ean be rebuilt, thousands of rnsid11nls have nowhcrn to go. Morn than h:iO communities wen~ afl'eelml by tlw lwavy rains, which wPrn spurred partly by llurril'arw Stan. Stan came ashore on Mnxko's c;ulf Coast on Oct. 4. bringing llood­ing IJpforn weakening. 
Ollkials put tlw death toll at 654, with 577 missing and fearml cl!md. Morn than 120,000 (;uatPmalans rPnwirwd in schools. churdws and otlwr buildings that w11rn c:onvnrtml hasti­ly into slwlters-and it could he months lwforP tlwy have a pl<u~e to call horne again. 
Al-Qaida calls for Islamic Somalia 
NAIIWBI. Knnya -An inllu11ntial rnligious lnadPr and aiiPgPd ai-C)aida eollaborator vowPd in an intPrvinw WPdnnsday to establish an lslami(' stall' in Somalia. a lawlnss I lorn of i\fri('a nation Llw lJnitml Stat11s fears could grow into a nwjor hasP fiw Islamic terrorists. 
"Tiw Wnslnrn world should n~sped our own idPas in droosing tlw way we want to govern our t'otmtry, tlw way WI' want to go about our own husirwss. That is our right," said Shnik llassan Dahir i\wnys, a kny figum in a grow­ing rP!igious t·.amp vying with secular faetions for ('Ontrol of Somalia. 
llPspiln pnat~n talks and the formation last ynar of a transitional government, Somalia. rPnJains a patchwork of !wavily arrnnd dan fipfdoms -with no govnrnnwnt to providn su('h basics as srhools. hospitals, phorw snrv­in~. nwn lraflic lights. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Documents released in abuse crisis 
I.OS i\NGJ·:LI~S-Newly rnlnasnd documents dPtailing sex ahusn allegations against Homan Catholic prinsts could lwlp spend hundn~ds of lawsuits toward setllnnwnt as the Los Angeles Archdiocese faces potentially damaging devel­OJHnPnts on otlwr fronts in the abuse erisis. 
Tlw archdiocese postl~d summaries of the ronlidnnlial fih~s of 126 priests on its Web site at midnight Trwsday, even though they weren't nxpnrtnd to bP made public litr several weeks. 
Tlw arrhdiorPsn said it released the sum­marins to lwlp victims heal and to make good on a deal madn with plaintiff's during nearly llm~e years of snttlenwnt talks. 

FEMA mobile homes not occupied 
BIIIMIN<;II;\M, ;\Ia. -More than 9,000 mobile honws and campers meant for the victims of llurriearw Katrina are sitting unuspd at governnwnt staging areas while displaced families continue to live out of llml.s and slwllers. 
Tlw l;ndnral l•:rnnrgency Management Agency says tlw backlog was inevitable: The temporary housing is easier to acquire than distribute bncausn of the limited number of a<~cessibln roads, dearnd lots and trueks to haul housing to the storm-ravaged region. 
But its htwn six weeks, and the people lel't honwlnss hy tlw hurricane say they are tirnd of waiting for tlw federal government to ful­fill its promise. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Juvenile system faulted in abuse 
INDIANAPOLIS -JuVfmile sexual predators wnrn able to assault 12-and 1:1-year-old boys that llw stat1~ housed with thnm but didn't pro­tect. in part because it had too few stafl' to police thorn, federal dvil rights investigators said in a letter to c;ov. Mitch Daniels. 
Thn rnport is amo~g a long list of civil righl'i violations at the Indiana Department of Corrnrlion's Plainfield and South Bend JuVfmile Corrnctional Facilities and Logansport Juvenile lnlaktvl>iagnostk Fadlity, acting lJ.S. A<>sistant i\ttorrwy c;nneral Bradley J. Sehlozman said in three separate Snpt. Y letters. 
COMPILED FR0tv1 TriF OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
SYRIA 

Cabinet member found dead 
Interior minister's death in his office not yet ruled suicide, assassination 
Associated Press 

DAMASCUS -Syria's interior minister. who nffoctivnly controllnd Lnbanon for two dncadns, was found dead in his ol'f'ice Wednesday, days bnforn the n~lnasn of a lJ.N. mport that could implieatn high-ranking ollidals in the murder of Lnbanon's for­mnr prime minister. 
The Syrian government called the death of Brig. G<HJ. Ghazi Kenaan a sui­cide, but opponnnts daimnd it could bn a mur­der to cover up lop-level involvenwnt. 
Thn nnws of Knnaan 's death shocked Syrians, and the govnrnmnnt felt com­pellnd to strnss it would not all'eet thn country's political stability. 
Knnaan, who was Syria's intnlligence chief' in Beirut for 20 years. was one of' at least seven Syrians rneently questioned by a lJ. N. team investigating the Feb. 14 assassination of' formnr l.obannsn Primn Ministnr Balik llariri. 
In Washington, Stato Department spokesman Adam Ereli said Kenaan was a "central figure in Syria's occupation of AP 
Syrian and foreign citizens sit in a hotel coffee shop watching a rare Interview
Lebanon f'or many years," 
but that it was up to Syrian of Syrian President Bashar Assad with CNN in Damascus, Syria, Wednesday. authorities to assess the circumstances of his death. Damascus ordered llariri's Dennis Hoss. a former Damascus. who tightly con­
President Bush, asked assassination. U.S. Mideast mediator, said trol tlw media, wantnd it about the upcoming lJ.N. "This is against our prin­if the lJ.N. report d<H~s out. r11port, said he did not wish ciples and my principles, point to Syrian involvn­!lours bdorn he died, to pn1judgn it. But he and I would never do such ment, it liknly would Knnaan told a Lnbannse added it was "important for a thing in my life," Assad revolve around Kenaan radio station: "I lwlieve this Syria to understand the said. "What do we achieve? bncause of his prominnnt is the last statnnwnt that I free world rnspnets I think what happened tar­position. ean makn." lin eonlirmnd Lebanese democracy, and geted Syria." "I don't belinve it was a speaking to U.N. investiga­expects Syria to honor that Asked whether it was suicide," Hoss said. "The tors but denied a n~port democracy." possible such a erime could timing is extraordinarily that he told thnm ahout 
The government has have taken place without coincidental. It certainly eorrupt Syrian ollkials. bmm quietly preparing for his knowledge, Assad would look as if someone ;\ Syrian ol'fieial said the lJ.N. rnport by consoli­replind: "I wouldn't think was trying to ereatn the Knnaan shot himself' in the dating power, readying a so. As I said, if that hap­impression the person mouth with a silnncnr­diplomatic eounteroff<msive pened, this is treason." responsible for (the llarir·i equipped gun. ;\ wlleague and taking steps to guard lie added that if the lJ.N. murder) is dead." found him slurnp<~d on his against any sanctions. investigation produces Kenaan, 6:~. committed dnsk and a pool of' hlood on 
Syrian Prnsident Bashar proof of Syrian involve­suieide in his ol'f'icn, lhn ground, said the ofTi­Assad, in an interview with ment, those involved would according to the ol'f'icial eial, speaking on condition CNN beforn Kenaan's death be charged with treason SANA news agency, tlw of anonymity bneaus<~ hn is was announeed, rejected and could be handed over first to break the news -a not authorized to speak any possibility that to an international court. sign that authorities in publicly on such mat.tnrs. 



Early U.S. quake donations down 
stage after the tsunami. donated in rnsponsn to tlw tsunami ­
Associated Press 
"The fact that the tsunami struck a a record for an overseas disastnr. 
NEW YOHK -American donors, tourist region, and happened right "The past 12 months have been overwhelmingly generous following after Christmas, played a role in shocking in terms of thn numbnr of the Indian Ocean tsunami and terms of the generosity," said the tragic natural disasters, and the llurrir.ane Katrina, are responding World Food Program's U.S.-based American public has bnen incredibly much more slowly to th!l devastating spokesman, Trevor Rowe. "We generous in responding," said I>nbra earthquake in Pakistan. haven't witnessed that yet with the Neuman, a vice president of' CAHE. 
Though no overall figures have earthquake. Not at all. We need all "So far, we are not seeing as strong been eompiled yet, aid agencies the help we can get." a response to the earthquake," she induding the Amerkan Red Cross and The earthquake struck Saturday as said. "We need to tnll the story in the the World Food Program say earth­most U.S. relief organizations were -most compelling way possible, and quake contributions have lagged well and are -still seeking donations to urge people to reaeh down a little behind the pace of donations for the cope with the aftermath of Katrina, more deeply." tsunami last December. Atlanta-based the most disruptive natural disaster in lnter!\etion, a Washington-based CAHE said Wednesday its online American history. alliance of more than 160 lJ.S. relief' quake donations so far have been Already, Americans have donated agencies, is !waring from its members roughly $200,000, compared to $1.5 more than $1.7 billion for hurricane that many donors feel tlwy have little million in online gifts at the same relief, on the heels of $1.3 billion they left to give. 
-----------. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 13, 2005 
things are absolutely some­thing that students can be part
Trustees 

of and will improve the discus­sion."
continued from page 1 

Students will still present to meetings as ex officio members the Board three times each so that they may participate year, with adjusted guidelines but cannot vote. that will allow for a greater 
"We can be part of the con­variety of student input and versation just as anybody else narrow the scope of each pres-there. We'll be sit-entation, ting alongside the Shappell said. trustees as part of Under the
"We can be a part new guidelines,
the group," Baron said. "They are ofthe conversation the subject of extremely respect­the fall report
just as anybody
ful and intelligent to the Board
else there. We'll be 
people They will be deter­wouldn't have cre­sitting alongside mined by the ated this whole new Vice President
the trustees as part
structure if they for Student
ofthe group. " 
didn't want a stu­Affairs and the dent -a person chairman of the who's anywhere Dave Baron Student Affairs from 19 to 22 years student body president Co m m i t t e e , 
old -to put their input in." 
The changes were initiated by Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman in response to stu­dent desire for increased com­munication with the Board, Baron said. 
"Increased communication has been a campaign issue for the past few years," he said. "[Poorman] knows students do want to take an important role in terms of the Board of Trustees." 
The student body president and vice president will not sit in on all of the Executive Committee's sessions, but will be present at those that involve student life. 
"Some of [the issues dis­cussed] are not appropriate for students to be part of, such as staffing issues· and budgetary concerns," Baron said. "Other 

whose topic 
choice this fall 
demonstrated they may also take student government's suggestions into consideration. 
"Community relations was an issue that we went to Father Poorman and said, 'We think this is a big issue, and you might want to have it in the fall,"' Baron said. "They lis­tened to us." 
The fall report will typically be given by a student group other than student govern­ment, except when student government is deemed the most appropriate group to dis­cuss the topic. This year, stu­dent government prepared the fall report in conjunction with VOICE, the Center for Social Concerns' advisory board. 
The traditional winter report will be replaced by a State of the Student Union address, in which student government presents a general overview of the status of the student body. 
"We will talk about the hot issues that we think are impor­tant to campus at that time," Baron said. 
The third annual report will deal with a topic chosen by student government. Student government will give the spring report, unless student government chooses another student group to present in its place. 
"[The spring report] is more open to the discretion of the student government," Shappell said. 
These changes in report for­mat are an apt response to stu­dent concerns about represen­tation to trustees, Shappell said. 
"This is expanding the stu­dent voice because we're giv­ing more students ... face-to­face access with the trustees," she said. "We feel that's very important that [the trustees] are not seeing the same three people all year, [but] getting a greater variety of students from across the campus." 
Baron suggested the format changes indicate a desire by Board members to hear more student opinion, noting the Minority Affairs Committee of student government will be reporting to the Board's Committee on Social Values at the request of Frances Shavers, executive assistant to University President Father John Jenkins. 
"That's another instance of an overall attitude to hear more from students," he said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 

Tickets 
continued from page 1 
director of ticket opera­tions. 
The number of general admissions tickets normal­ly available for exchange is 350, Berlo said. That number was increased to 750 for both the USC and BYU games because they are scheduled over fall 
break. 
Every ticket Saturday's game has been sold, Berlo said. 
"There were some students outside the tick­et counter much earlier than 7 a.m.," Berlo said. 
Berlo believes the football team's record ­4-1 this season -does not have an impact on 
for 

"There were some 
et at the last 

students outside minute. "I have
the ticket counter 
been offered

much earlier than 
$200 for my

7a.m. USC ticket, although it is in my book­
Josh Berlo 
let and I

director of ticket 
don't know 

operations 
how the guy 

the number of students seeking to exchange tick­ets. 
"This season is no differ­ent from others," he said. "Notre Dame always has a high expectancy for atten­dance." 
Reasons for selling tick­ets ranged from conflicting travel plans to attractive financial offers. 
Junior Dan Gruett, a Stanford resident, said he gave his ticket to a friend because his sister is com­ing to town and he would rather her watch history in the making than go him­self. 
Junior Julie Cunningham simply did not realize the success the team would have this season and planned to depart for home before the game on Saturday. 
Selling prices -some as high as $2,000 on eBay ­also have compelled stu­dents to exchange and sell their tickets. 
An off-campus junior, who requested anonymity because she feared the repercussions of selling her ticket, said she sold her USC tick­
who bought 

it from me is going to use it ... but I need money and am not 
going to say no  to $200,"  
she said.  
She said she  also  has  

been offered $200 for her BYU ticket but is planning on attending the game. She is considering selling tickets to future games, however. 
"I am looking to sell my Tennessee ticket, and if we win this weekend I am sure to get a lot more than $200," she said. 
Contact Katie Linhares at klinhares@nd.edu 
What is wireless authentication? 
Wireless authentication is new to Notre Dame. It verifies that you are a member of the Notre Dame community who is authorized to use the Nomad wireless network. 
Why is wireless authentication necessary? 
Wireless authentication prevents people not officially affiliated with Notre Dame from using wireless to gain access to the University network. But it enables you, a member of the Notre Dame community, to wirelessly access your email, shared storage and other Unive.rsity resources in a more 
secure manner. 
How do I use this new authentication procedure to obtain a wireless network connection? 
There are two ways you can authen­ticate, either via your Web browser or by setting up your Windows XP or Mac OS X computer to use a special type of network connection called 802.1 x. 
How do f learn how to use these 
authentication methods? 
Go to http://oit.nd.edu/nomad. 
When wilt f have to start using the new authentication procedure to connect to Nomad? 
Wireless authentication will become mandatory on Wednesday, October 19, 2005. 
Will there be a way for me to use Nomad wireless without authenticating? 
No. Everyone who connects to the Notre Dame network via Nomad will have to employ the new authentication procedure. 


AD 
WIRELESS NETWORK 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Office of Information Technologies 
http://oit.nd.edu 
Tl....IE 0HSERVER 







USINESS

Thursday, October 13, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,216.91 -36.26

jones .A.  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,247  153  ~  2,301,720,230  
AMEX  1.622.87  ..30.10  
NASDAQ  2,037.47  -23.62  
NYSE  7,322.74  ~58.47  
S&PSOO  I, 177.6H  -7.19  

NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 13.463.74 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5.342.20 -38.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ)  -1.19  -0.45  37.49  
APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL)  -4.54  -2.34  49.25  
JDS UN I PHASE CP UDSU)  -5.94  -0.12  1.90  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  + 1.40  +0.24  17.43  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.77  -0.18  23.24  
30-YEAR BOND  + 1.44  +0.66  46.56  
I0-YEAR NOTE  + 1.30  +0.57  44.41  
5-YEAR NOTE  + 1.13  +0.48  43.10  
3-MONTH BILL  + 1.54  +0.55  36.15  
C«nmodltles  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.59  64.12  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -3.20  476.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -2.23  92.38  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  114.3850  
EURO  0.8317  
POUND  0.5709  
CANADIAN$  1.1709  

IN BRIEF 
Pfizer retains patent on Lipitor 
Nl·:w YOBK-Pliwr Inc. won a signilieant victory on WtHinnsday whnn a British judge uplwld a key patent covering its blockbuster cholesterol drug I.ipitor in the United Kingdom but tho nwdieation still l'aees a simi­lar yet morn important ease in the United States. 
Shares ol' tlw world's higgnst drugmaker ros11 2.2 perrtmL 
. Judge Nicholas l'urnl'my upheld tlw patent rovtH'ing atorvastatin. Lipitor's aetive ingrodi­nnt. but rulnd that anotlwr patent was invalid. Indian pharmacnutical company Hanbaxy Laboratories Ltd. had challnnged both patents, and was joined by Britain's Arrow (;nrwries Ltd. against tlw SI1COIHI patont that was rulnd invalid. 
Pfizer said thn dndsion upholding the -exclu­sivity ol' tlw patent eovnring atorvastatin until Nowmlwr 20 II was an important victory for scientists. 
"This court dneision is consistent with the l'undanu1ntal principle that patent laws exist to support and nncourage medical innovators, not undnrminn them," Pfizer chairman and Cl·:o Ilank McKinrwll said in a statement. 
Judge approves Delphi financing 
Nl·:w YOHK -A judge on Tuesday approvnd the usn of $950 million in l'inane­ing for auto supplinr Delphi Corp., which is nxpndnd to consolidatn or divest a signil'i­eant portion of its U.S. plants during its stay in bankruptcy court. 
That sum is part of a $2 billion debtor-in­possession loan assmnhled by a consortium of lnndnrs lnd by .I. P. Morgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Global MarkPt.s Inc., which will hnlp tlw company operate during its bankruptcy, nxpnctnd to end in p,arly 2007. 
llnlphi lawynrs said the company would nnnd only $!i(>5 million until thn nnxt financ­ing !waring on Oct. 27, but that a "cushion" was ruw.nssary. 
;\1. Tunsday's !waring. U.S. Bankruptcy .I udgn Hohnrt Drain also said hn would nxtnnd an ordnr allowing lklphi to eontinun paying nrnploynns' salarins and benefits. llnlphi has about 7,500 nmploynos in Indiana. concnntratnd in Kokomo and i\ndnrson. 
Apple introduces video iPod 
New iPods, deal with ABC Television group introduce television, movie catalog 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE. Calif. ­
Apple Computer Inc. may 
bn at tho helm of another 
rnvolution. 
Morn than two ynars 
ago, tho tneh company 
rocknd thn music industry 
whnn it won landmark 
licensing deals with t.hn 
n~eonl labnls to snll songs 
ovpr thn lntornet and Int. 
usprs play thn tunns on 
tlwir portable iPod music 
playnrs. 
Thn move hnraldnd a 
nnw-and lngal-distri­
bution mothod for music 
and sparknd a cultural 
plwnomnnon. 
Now, Apple hopns to 
achinvn a similar !'nat with 
llollywood with its latnst 
iteration of thn il'od. 
Apple CEO Steve Jobs 
introdut~nd an il'od capa­
bln of playing videos on 
Wodnnsday, evolving the 
portabln rnusie playnr of 
ehoicn into a multimedia 
platform for everything 
from TV shows to music 
videos. 
Vidnos will now be sold 

online alongside songs on with Hollywood the coup it 2 million songs from but vnry little eompnlling 
Appln's iTunes Music achieved with music 200,000 at launch in contnnt has bnnn avail­
Storn. labels: Ease an industry's 2003. Mon~ than 600 mil­able, and Appln's movn 
Citing a groundbreaking piracy fears and trans­lion downloads have been comes amid llndgling ini­
deal with ABC Tnlevision form its business models recorded since. tiativns to ol'f'nr original 
Group, Jobs said video to include convenient, "We've gained a lot of video programming on thn 
offerings via iTunes will legal distribution of digital credibility in the industry Internet.. 
inelude episodes for $1.99 eontent over the Internet in the past two and a half "This is the first giant 
naeh of the hit shows at reasonable prices for years with what we did stnp to making more con­
"Dnspnrate Housewives" consumers. with songs," said Eddy tent availabln to morn 
and "Lost," which will bo "It's never been done Cue, Apple's vice presidnnt peopln online," said 
available the day after before, where you eould of applieations. "And Hobnrt. lgnr. Disrwy's ehinf 
thny air on telnvision. · buy hit TV shows and buy that's what we're trying to nxneutivn. "It is the f'ut.urn 
The purchased video can thmn on line the day after mirror in the video as l'ar as I'm ~~ont:nrnnd. 
be watched on a computer they're shown," said Jobs, space." It's a great marriagn 
or taken on the road for whose other company, Analysts consider a bdwenn content and tneh­
viewing on thn new iPod's Pixar Animation Studios video iPod a test of nology and I'm thrilled 
2.5-inch color screen. lne., has a long n~lation­whether consumers would about it." 
The much·antieipated ship with ABC's parent, embrace video on such a The new vidoo iJ>od, nnw iPods, available start­The Walt Disney Co. Short small sereen. Over-the-air availabln in black or ing next week, will replace films from Pixar also will TV serviees are already white, will bn abln to play Apple's current 20·giga­be sold via the iTunes available for cell phones vidno and podcasts. Apple bytn and 60-gigabyte mod­store. but the quality remains said thn 30 (;B modnl will els. A 30 GB version will But that's just the begin­substandard. have up to 14 hours ol' sell for $299 and a 60 GB ning, Apple executives say, Competing portable battnry lil'e while the hO wiII cost $31)9. noting that the iTunes video players have been GB model's battery will 
Apple hopes to repeat store catalog has grown to available for several years last up to 20 hours. 

States to aid poor with heating bills 
winter." attic of her 85-year-old home, lix its
Associated Press 

On Wednesday, the Energy leaky roof and seal old windows, hnr 
CLEVELAND -With fuel bills Department predicted winter heating gas bills soarnd out of' her reach: as expected to rise sharply this winter, bills will be a third to a half higher high as $473 a month. states are setting aside extra money than last year for most families across "I got one of those big, old houses for the poor, dispensing energy-eon­the country -an average of $350 with a teen suite and I eouldn 't usn it servation tips and pltiading for federal more for natural gas usms and $378 in the wintertime. Now I can usn it," aid to help Amnricans kenp the heat more for fuel oil users. said Meriweather, 60. "''m slightly on when the weather turns eold. The rising priees are blamed largely worrind about this winter, but thank 
Ohio frned up an additional $75 mil­on llurrieanes Katrina and Rita, God I don't think my hills will be as lion for heating assistance for the which damaged oil and natural gas high as it was bel'orn." needy, and Wisconsin added $16 mil­installations and disrupted produc­This winter eould son many morn lion. Iowa ollicials set up a Web site to tion. applicants for tho Low-Income llome give people adviee on how to save More than half of all U.S. house­Energy Assistance Program with not erwrgy and get aid, but they aeknowl­holds heat with natural gas. Nearly a enough money to go around. Congrnss edged that may not be enough. third of the eountry relies on electric provided $2.2 billion for thn program 
People "can only turn the thermo­heat, but those homeowners may see last year, but this ynar Prqsidnnt. Bush stat so low before it affeets your their bills go up too, because many has proposed cutting it to about $2 hnalth and well-being," said Jerry power plants run on natural gas. billion. McKim, ehief of Iowa's Bureau of Every winter, heating assistanee Twenty-nino govnrnors havn asked Energy Assistanee, which helps poor helps people like Willa Meriweather, a Washington for $1.3 billion morn f'or !'amities pay their utility bills. "This is retirnd graphie artist from Cleveland. emergency energy assistanen. Them a life-or-death matter. I have serious Before a state-funded nonprolit group has been no immediate aetion from anxiety about what folks will face this helped her install insulation in the Congress on tho rnqunst. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 13, 2005 
posal stands, $10 will fund between 1,600 and 1,750
Senate 

papers, numbers that fall short continued from page 1 of the 2,035 target determined 
by USA Today during the pilot probability of being passed with program. almost unanimous support." "A dollar's a drop in the buck­
Ramanan's speech came after et, in terms of what we pay a proposed amendment by here," Knapp said. O'Neill senator Steve Tortorello But other senators were quick to add another $5 onto the pro­to question a further price posed increase, which would increase. have resulted in a total activity "If we can satisfy our needs in fee increase of $20. the cheapest way possible, that'd 
The resolution, which passed be better," Farley senator Carol on a 22-5 vote, suggests raising Hendrickson said. the current student activity fee Harris agreed and said he from $80 to $95 for the next aca­thought Senate should "take it demic year. The resolution will slow" with the fee increases. be sent to the Campus Life "I think what we have to do Council. If approved by the before we go into this program is Senate members indicated their opposition to the proposed $15 increase in the student activity Council, it will go to Vice be very wary ... very careful fee Wednesday at the Student Senate meeting. President of Student Affairs about how much money we allo­Father Mark Poorman before cate to this program," Harris facing final consideration by the said. "Why change something that's Baron said he felt the extra to an administration three years University Budgeting Group. Student body president Dave not broken?" Lindley asked. funds should be used on some­ago that "dropped the ball," did­
The extra $5 proposed by Baron said the $15 increase was In response, Knapp stressed thing "lasting that future stu­n't spend the allotted money and Tortorello was intended to fully originally proposed after he and the deliberation that would go dents can enjoy," since the added $100,000 to the account. alleviate the debt currently faced Harris conducted a summer's into the changes and questioned $180,000 has been accumulating Last year, only $7,000 was by the Student Union's clubs and worth of research into the subject the Oct. 25 deadline set for pass­over the years. added. organizations. and were advised by the Student ing a resolution. The Student Union constitution The resolution will be present­
Tortorello cited data previously Union treasurer and "people "I would rather have a good states that $15,000 must remain ed at the Oct. 24 Campus Life mentioned by Academic Affairs actually making the decisions" plan tomorrow than a bad plan in the account each year, and Council meeting. committee chair Chris Harris that $15 would be "optimal." today," Knapp said. only $10,000 can be removed showing the buying power of stu­While he would support a $20 Student body vice president per year, Baron said. Contact Maddie Hanna at 

dent groups and organizations increase in the student activities Lizzi Shappell explained that the has decreased by $8 since 2002, fee, Baron said he thought it Oct. 25 deadline was necessary due to inflation. would be harder to push the res­in order for the proposal to have 
Under the $15 increase pro­olution through higher lev~ls. a chance at being enacted next posed last week -which ulti­The $20 increase would have year. mately passed-$10 would go to eliminated the need for the sec­Alumni senator Drew Beatty the College Readership Program ond stage of the plan, modifYing agreed with Shappell -"time is and $5 would go to Clubs and the fixed allocation percentages of the essence," he said -but Organizations. specified by the Student Union questioned the extra money the 
"That's a big student activity constitution. With the extra resolution proposed giving to fee hike to end up still $3 in the money, the College Readership clubs and organizations. hole," Tortorello said. Program would be adequately "There is a huge carry-for­
But with a student activity fee funded without having to redis­ward account," Beatty said. increase of $20, Tortorello said, tribute funds from clubs and ':Why do we need to give them the College Readership Program organizations, Knapp said. extra dollars?" would receive $11, while Clubs But Keough senator Rob Shappell said the third stage of and Organizations would receive Lindley returned to a statistical the plan would be investigating $9, fixing the debt problem and analysis presented at last week's the Student Union's carry-for­putting an extra dollar toward Senate meeting that demonstrat­ward account, which is com­newspapers. ed how modifying the fixed per­posed of funds unused each year 
Zahm senator Pat Knapp sup­centages would provide clubs by the Student Union. ported the amendment, noting with the necessary funding with­While it may be tempting to student concerns about not being out further increasing the stu­tap into that money for the able to get a paper. As the pro-dent activities fee. College Readership Program, 

. 
' 
. 
.

L GREAT LIFESTYLE 

Turtle Creek Aartments 

Adjacent to CampusI 
Remodeled Apartments Available www.campuscribs.net 
1.866.395.4201 

171 0 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 

CLOSEST TO CAMPUS 
He attributed the large account mhannal@nd.edu 
CLUIIIP  
-Live M.lsic in October -14th Blues N' Gold -21st D~gerous Jim Post  -Doors Open @ 9pm -Fcx:xi ServED. All Night -Contest for #1 ND  

Watch for details about our Halloween Cbntest!!! 
CLUB FEVER 222 SouTH MICHIGAN STREET, SouTH BEND 574-234-5200 WWW.CLUBFEVER.BIZ 


Try All The Winning Varieties! 
HOT POCKETS~ 
Brand Sluffed Sandwiches 
lEAN POCKETS~ 
Brand Stuffed Sandwiches 
CROISSANT POCKETS110 
Brand Stuffed Sandwiches 
Try our new HOT POCKETSci0 brand 
I I
saveso~,~ 
I I 
I 
HOT POCKETS"', LEAN POCKETS"', 
I
CROISSANT POCKETS®Brand Stuffed Sandwich<> 
I 
!A~ ve>e.! ~ aft:e:ild. c.~JP~e:L :::m, J)llf~l~. :rariStMr.-d, excll.arlgi~ on1,1:em prClhlbr.P.t:! f.<f 
ms:rlcted by law. CONSUMER: L:m~ one wupon ;~:~< spediad Wm!s) ptr.chr:S:id TI!l~ I r.ciJP!!~ \JOI,"Id cr:tf!)'lptcd:;-::! S!lr.-s and >'3!'!®1ls ro;~Jlter:. RETAILER Ne:rtl& Pr&pamti Fend:; I 
Cilmr~ny, H,1fld.j1j~kJ fQ:m Grm~ \'(18 rr:BT:bi~'W J-:li fa('.(: v<1~1e pillS~-ij sulmt~tai! ~!rom­plii~'lce wit'! t:~S t.Jeslle Pmp:if$il F¢t!ds t~. ~~i:'l-i.ftt1~! Fo::C:; Group MilllUI:!Ciw;,·;, 1 Cllopoo R~~mp:K!n P11!ii:y d,·aea l!l!ro. e~vallllt».< U(lC!l rooll!* Ccnx..-w mus: P>'IY ::a1e:: 
1 '""· ~;:"I"' us~ ':'".""'.,. ''NerJ;; '"~"'";' ~,.:·~~r ~~"'""' '""' 1
Gl'oop. CMi.,O!:pl. -4~... 1r::I'<Ct:!l Dft;e,Ot!P::r.·. TX ,!Ui<l:;. v$!1Vi!!:le .,dX. 5 4369 5 0 
L------------------------~ 
Thursday, October 13, 2005 The Observer +NEWS page 9 
trnatnwnt by her suporvisors and bntter treatment. Anspaugh said shn l'nels com­tration in order to promote dial­and fenls that if stall' is cut back, "IThe studnntsl are horn to sPe fortable with approaching hnr gogue and discourage confronta­
Labor 
too mueh work is thP work that we supervisor with any concerns or tion. CLAP has not b11nn oflidally unfairly expoeted do, not our problems and said such an nndorsnd by studnnt govnrn­
continued from page 1 
of each worbw-"fj~veryone deserves to supervisor, approach is sul'ficinnt. nwnt. 
issues," University spoknsman spneilically man-Bertha said. i\ceording to its mission statn­Last April. then-junior land l>nnnis Brown said. ual labor that be treated with But Edna nHmt, CLAP seeks to havo an Observer Vinwpoint columnist! /\warn that tlw University she said has respect because Anspaugh, a open dialogue between its group Kamaria Portnr organiznd a holds high standards in areas caused her worker at Notre members and the administration tnach-in consisting of 30 Notrn
everyone plays a part

stH'.h as academics, spirituality shoulder and Dame's South regarding University labor poli­Damn students and faculty. as
in making this

and guidance, the organization back problems Dining Ilall, fnels cies and a compn~hensive living well as a llarvard prol(~ssor from l'ePis that labor practices should throughout this University what it is." that a group likn wage. a successful Living Wage bn rngardml with equal impor­year. ClAP is unneces­At the end of September, the Campaign. tance. Bnrtha said the sary. She said she group hosted its Inaugural "Everyonn doserves to lw
Lupe Gomez

Bertha. a rnaintnnance worker fact that ClAP is is happy with the Assembly, unveiling the work treatnd with respnct because
member of CLAP

who rnqunstnd to only bo idnnti­primarily run by wages she involved in putting the organiza­evnryone plays a part in making (i(1d by lwr first nanw. said she students, ynt pro­student committee reeeives and the tion together and encouraging this Univorsity what it is," said has dealt with inadequato wages motes the partic­work she does at others to join in the campaign. Lupe Gomez, a membnr of and unjust trnatment during her ipation of work-Notre Dame. Matthew Walsh. chair of the CLAP's student committee who 25 years as an nmployee of the ers as well, appeals to her "I don't think it's necessary University Affairs Committee of took part in the April teach-in. University. Currnntly working as bncause the work she does is for because I think we've got things the Student Senate, said an open a dormitory custodian, Bertha the students, and together they pretty good the way they are," dialogue was the best way for Contact Luisa Cabrera at said she has exp(wieneed unfair will be able to strive for justice Anspaugh said. CLAP to deal with the adminis-lcabrera@nd.edu 

The positive effect of beginning your career with Ernst &Young is too great to measure. 
Agreat start can take you further. At Ernst &Young we've created an environment that's 
conducive to personal and professional growth and success. And what we're offering is an 
opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. Become a benchmark 
for success. Visit us on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers, or look for us on campus. 
FORTUNE .. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 

Audit • Tax • Transaction Advisory Services i!/ERNST&YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
P2005 ERNST & YOUNG LLP 
IRAQ 
Late draft changes approved 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iraqi law­makers approved a set of last­minute amendments to the con­stitution without a vote on Wednesday, sealing a compro­mise designed to win Sunni support and boost chances for the charter's approval in a ref­erendum just thrne days away. 
The deal, brokered with intense U.S. mediation, came as insurgents pressed their cam­paign to wreck Saturday's ref­erendum. A suicide bomber killed 30 Iraqis at an army recruitment center in a north­ern town where another bomber had struck just a day earlier. 
At least one major Sunni Arab party, the Iraqi Islamic Party, said it will now support the draft at the polls. But some other Sunni parties rejected the amendments and said they would still campaign for a "no" vote. 
The most signilkant change is the introduction of a mecha­nism allowing Sunni Arabs to try to make more substantive changes in tlw constitution later, after a nnw parliament is elected in December. 
Sunnis want to weaken the considerable autonomous pow­ers the Shiite and Kurdish mini­states would have under the constitution. But there's no guarantee they will succeed: They will still likely face strong opposition from majority Shiites and Kurds in the new parlia­ment. 
The amendments passed Wednesday also made some key symbolic concessions to Sunni Arabs, starting with the first article underlining that Iraq will be a single nation with its unity guaranteed -a nod to fears among the disafi'ected minority that the draft as it stood would fragment the country. 
That was not enough, howev­er, for many Sunni loaders. 
"The addnd articles do not change anything and provide no guarantees," Muthana llarith ai-Dhari, spokesman of the 
inl'luential  Association  of  
Muslim  Scholars,  told  AI­ 
Jazeera tnlevision.  

"We have called for boy­cotting the elections or rnjneting the constitution," hn said. 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 10 
Thursday, October 13, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Evolution and the evidence of reason
n,! JnckpMdnu, Da.ily Newspapn-&rvi"t Notu Dame and Saint Mary's 
I~O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR! Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR! Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao Or!SIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63I-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(')74) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The ffee expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr inf(,rmation. 
Questions regtlrding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer {USPS 599 2.-4000) b published Mond~y rhrough Frid;Jy ~x<:cpr during !-!Xillll and va.::ati1m p..:riod1>. Asuhscrlprinn w The Observer ls $11ln [or on~: .J.c:adcmic yar; ~1,) formw semester. 
·n1c Oh!>Crvcr ls puhfi~hed <~.t: POSTr,tASTIR 024 South Dining 11all Send address corr~Xtion.~ w: N01rc Dame, IN 46556-{1779 TbcObscrvc:.r Pcriodk<~l poMagc paid <at Notre Do~mc P.O. Box 779 .J.nd .J.ddition11l m;Uiing office.. 014 Snurh Dining Hall 
None: Dame, IN 46"556-0779 
Tin: Obscr\'ct is .1 member ofrhc Ali!,,Jdared Press, All reproductinn rights an:: 
rc~erved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Megan O'Neil Bobby Griffin Joe Piarulli Kevin Brennan 
Janice Flynn Jay Fitzpatrick Viewpoint Scene Joey King Liz Byrum 
Graphics Matt Hudson 
The Dover, Pa., school board requires ninth-grade public school biology stu­dents to listen to a short statement saying that there is a controversy over evolution, that a competing theory is intelligent design and that, if they want more infor­mation on that theo­ry, the school library has available a book, "Of Pandas and People: the Central Question of Biological Origins," published by a foundation pro­moting that theory. 
Eleven parents sued to bar the requirement as an unconstitutional pro­motion of religion. The case, Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District, is now in trial in the federal district court in llarrisburg. Plaintiffs are represented by the American Civil Liberties Union and the defendants by the Thomas More Law Center in Ann Arbor. Three of the Thomas More attorneys on the case are Notre Dame Law School grads. 
The teaching of evolution in public schools has frequently been challenged, without success, but this is the first court challenge to a school district's provision of information to students about intelli­gent design. Intelligent design theory, according to Baylor Professor William Dembski, a proponent, claims that "intel­ligent causes are necessary to explain the complex ... structures of biology, and that those causes are empirically detectable." The theory makes no claims about God. "It detects intelligence," said Dembski, "without speculating about the nature of the intelligence." 
In 1987, in Edwards v. Aguillard, a Louisiana law required the teaching of evolution to be accompanied by teaching of "creation science," which the statute defined as "the scientific evidences for creation and inferences from those scien­tific evidences." The Court held the law 

Charles Rice 
Right or 
Wrong? 

unconstitutional because its purpose was to promote a particular religious belief. The Kitzmiller plaintiffs argue that intelli­gent design theory, like creation science, is not scientific but religious. The Dover school board claims it is scientific and that informing students of the controver­sy between intelligent design and evolu­tion helps them develop critical thinking. Whatever the result of the trial, the Dover case could possibly end up in the Supreme Court. 
The academic and judicial controversy in this area has brought death to many trees, sacrificed to provide paper for the scholarly articles that have belabored the subject. But the Dover case is really about a more important issue that the courts don't touch: Apart from faith, can we really know through reason that God exists? 
The existence of God is not self-evident, and the reach of science is limited here. But can we really know from reason that there must always have been in existence an eternal being, who always was and who had no beginning? The alternative is that there was a time when there was nothing in existence. But if there was ever a time when there was nothing, there could never be anything. This we know from the self-evident principle of sufficient reason -that whatever exists must have a sufficient reason f(Jr its exis­tence. As Thomas Aquinas put it, "that which does not exist only begins to exist through something already existing. Therefore, if at one time nothing was in existence, it would have been impossible for anything to have begun to exist, and thus even now nothing would be in exis­tence-which is absurd." 
Or consider what the evidence of design in the universe really means. "The evolu­tion of living beings," said John Paul II, "presents an internal fmality .... This finality which directs beings in a direction for which they are not responsible or in charge, obliges one to suppose a mind which is its inventor, its creator." Finality, as Cardinal Christoph Schi:inborn put it, is "synonymous with final cause, purpose or design." 
"To all these indications of the existence of God the Creator," John Paul continued, "some oppose the power of chance or of the ... mechanisms of matter. To speak of ehanee for a universe whieh presents such a complex organization in its ele­ments and such marvelous finality in its life would bn equivalent to giving up the search for an explanation of the world as it appears to us ... [lit would be equiva­lent to admitting effects without a eause. It would be to abdicate human intelli­gence." 
It is true, as John Paul put it, that "sci­ence must rm:ognize its inability to reach the existence of God: it can neither affirm nor deny His existence ... [l-l]owever ... the scientist ... can discover in the world reasons for aflirming a Being which sur­passes it." 
Not only is belief in God reasonable. It is unreasonable not to believe in God. Can you really believe that the human eye, in all its complexity, came about by chance rather than by design? If you were walk­ing along a beach and saw traced in the sand the letters, "Go Irish," would you think, "Look at the words the waves traced in the sand?" If you did, your elec­tion as mayor of Idiot Village would be assured. 
"[T]he marvellous 'book of nature,"' said John Paul in Faith & Heason, '"when read with ... human reason, can lead to knowledge of the Creator." In abandoning the "basic rules" of reason, "the human being ... ends up in the condition of 'the fool' land! shows ... how deficient his knowledge is and just how far he is from the full truth of things, their origin and their destiny." 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. /lis column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at plawecki@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
What are you looking foward to the most about USC weekend? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

ISubmit aLetter , 
···~ t tb E.d··t
11 t1
:o! ; e >(I OT a 1:
;ll ·•· ·..·.· •· ..... •. ....... ....... · .. ... ·. ~. 
!I www.ndsmcoQ~;~rver.com I 
~ ~ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Not a shred ofeuidence exists in fauor of the idea that life is serious. " 
Brendan Gill writer 

~----------------------------------------------------~-------------------------~-------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 13, 2005 
page 11 
Becoming fully alive with an adult faith 
Saint lrr.naeus once wrote words to tlw pf'fect that the summit of God's cre­ation is a man or woman fully alive in Christ. The reference is to a person who is serious about pursuing holiness in rnsponse to God's 
unconditional love for  Father Richard  
thmu. lrenaeus is not  Warner  
talking only about Cistercian monks.  FaithPoint  
martyrs of centuries  

ago, or Disealced Carmelite nuns. but about any man or woman. You do not hav1~ to bn old to be holy. In fact, young people arc more apt to be serious disci­ples of Jesus Christ than many others. Why? Because young people (Notre Dame undergraduates, for example) can give themselves over to a cause with a passion which springs from being young and from being idealistic in the most realistic sense of that term. 
/\!most every time he was in the pres­ence of young people, the late Pope John Paul II was not only apparently connecting with them easily, and them with him. but he also urged young peo­ple not to be afraid. lie did not want them to be afraid of a real commitment to Jesus Christ, to the Gospel or to the Church. lie did not want them to be afraid of what others may think of them, including their peers, if they appeared to "march to a dil'fnrent drummer"­even if that "drummer" was Jesus Christ. lie did not want young people to 
be afraid to become fully alive in Jesus. He did not want young people to be afraid to be men and women of God. 
No matter who you are -student, member of the faculty or staff or even a casual visitor to Campus-you do not have to spend too much time at Notre Dame before you arc struck and impressed with the incredible young men and women who make up our undergraduate student body. They seem to be able to accomplish anything they put their minds to. Indeed. these young people arc here because they arc seri­ous about the goals they set for them­selves, and enter fully into every aspect of student life, whether it be studies, sports, spirituality, or social life. 
Some students come to Notre Dame because this seems to be their destiny. Perhaps a parent, grandparent or sib­ling came here, and Notre Dame natu­rally became their dream from the very beginning. Many students will tell you that the Catholic character of Notre Dame was important to their decision. t\nd many state that a desire to deepen their faith and grow in their under­standing of the role God, the Church and faith plays in their lives. Dorm Masses arc perhaps the first place, after the many statues, places and symbols that raise hearts and minds to God, where young people's inner hunger for God is realized and appreciated here at Notre Dame. 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Crowd must live up to fan status 
Notre Dame is 4-1. USC is 5-0. The only game we've lost has been at horne. Nobody should lose more games at home than away. So how can we solve this problem? !low can 80,000 people motivate a few dozen guys enough to beat the No.1 team in the nation? 
The only acceptable answer is to be as "nasty" as the players on the field. We can't expect our players to work for us when we fail to be there for them. The students challenge everybody in the stadium to take us to a new level, but we don't always get a response. Even though everyone stands up for that big play, most sit back down and become quiet specta­tors soon after. 
We can do better. We can be louder. We can show that all fans of Notre Dame want to win as badly as our students down on the field. 
l'vn senn a Nebraska stadium in nothing but pure Hed, t\rizona State in Yellow. We're Notre Dame. What kind of unity docs it show when snvnn eighths of our stadium is wearing a vari­ation of colors? I can't countrhow many fans I've seen wearing white in our stadium. White? Who are you representing? 
l'or those of you who sit outside the student section, we're calling for your help. I lose my voice every game. My hands are raw from clap­ping, striving to make as much noise as 1am capable of producing. We arc the students, but we can't do it alone. We don't need noise when we're winning. We need it when we're down. 
USC wins in the second half of every game because they destroy the spirit of the schools they're playing. We need to get louder, not tired. Obnoxious? No! We love our team, and no matter what Weis is planning for Saturday, we need to do everything humanly possible to bring the home advantage back home. Gold or Green. Who cares? We're both! So be either. Just don't be anything else. Go Irish! 
Daniel Pearson senior Sorin Ocr. 12 

Focusing on the possible 
Mr. t\nthony J. Lauinger totally misunder­stood what Dean Mark Roche was getting at in his New York Times op-ed. He was reminding his readers of certain realities of American political life, one of which is that abortion is not going away, whether we like it or not. Even if Hoe v. Wade were overruled tomorrow, the incidence of abortion in t\merica would not substantially subside. Indeed. various states were beginning to liberalize their anti-abortion laws well before the Hoe decision. What is pos­sible, however. is a substantial reduction in the frequency of abortion. assuming the political will to achieve this result. But no such will manifested itself in the recent presidential elec­tion campaign. 
The Hepublican attack on Hoc v. Wade during the campaign was more symbolic than real. 
The Hepublicans were the abstract moralists. Why? Because, as anti-tax free marketeers, they were -and remain -totally unwilling to adopt the social programs, employment poli­cies, child-care facilities and financial support services that would encourage women to carry their pregnancies to term. The European expe­rience shows that governmental programs of this nature help to facilitate pro-life decisions on the part of women contemplating abortion. t\nd if they work in Europe, they should work 
here. In short, I read Dean Hache's op-ed as a 
call for moral realism -not absolutism ­
rooted in the political art of the possible. 

Donald Kommers professor of political science and law Ocr. 12 
It is understandable that there are many discussions of matters related to Christian living that take place on Campus. whether in the residence halls, among friends or in the pages of The Observer. A number of these conversa­tions revolve around sexuality. And all too often, conversations that focus on sexuality try to address the dangers and negative results of inappropriate behav­ior, rather than communicating the beautiful and deep call to live our lives with the consistency that a Christian moral ethic can offer us. 
It is critical that each of us deals appropriately with matters related to sexuality, and even more so for students who have come to Notre Dame with a deep spiritual motivation marked by a desire to grow in God's love, to become fully alive in Christ. 
Our society is driven by a seculariza­tion that is motivated more by MTV and easy money than by religious values. "Retreats" are not moments for spiritual reflection and renewal but "meetings." "Ethics" is not a body of theological reflection derived from human behavior based on natural law and on the life of Christ, but can be only a set of "guide­lines" that can be of assistance in mak­ing a handsome profit while avoiding indictment. 
t\nd here, as well as in many other places, internet pornography is enter­tainment, and "random hook-ups," often driven by alcohol, can be seen as a nor­mal part of the college experience. 
I believe that our approach to these excesses is too often to condemn the negative results that can come about because of an action, rather than to pro­mote as thorough an understanding as possible of a Christian sexual ethic and appropriate behavioral code of conduct. This is as it should be for the many stu­dents who seek a deepening of faith and a growth in holiness. This goal is only fully achievable if young men and women are encouraged to enter fully into a consistent Christian ethic which includes integrity, an understanding of appropriate sexual conduct and Christian service out of love among other values, rather than prayer and good intentions alone. 
!\ book recommended by one of our priests which deals explicitly with Christian sexual ethics is entitled "In Pursuit of Love: Catholic Morality and Human Sexuality" by Vincent Genovesi. 
S.J. Copies of this book will be available in the Campus Ministry Library on the third floor of the Coleman-Morse Center for those interested. 
Father Richard Warner is the director 
ofCampus Ministry. lie can be contact­
ed at Warner.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Assisted suicide law should be upheld 
In the past few months, the United States Supreme Court has been in the national spot­light because of the death of William Rehnquist, the confir­mation 
process of Staff Editorial current chief 
University

justice John 
(){Ohio

Roberts, the 
The Post

announce­
ment of jus­
tice Sandra Day O'Connor's 
retirement and the nomination 
of Harriet Miers. But within 
the past week, the Supreme 
Court has turned its focus to 
claims about the validity of an 
Oregon law that permits physi­
cian-assisted suicide. 
For about the past eight 
years. Oregon's controversial 
law has given 208 terminally 
ill patients the choice of allow­
ing doctors to ease their suf­
fering when faced with excru­
ciating pain. However, the fed­
eral government has taken it 
upon itself to challenge the 
law on the basis that it vio­
lates federa.l drug laws. 
Although many politicians 
have moral reservations con­
cerning this law, the wishes of 
the people of Oregon and the 
state legislature should ulti­
mately dictate the uses of 
state-regulated medicine, as 
well as doctor-patient rela­
tions. The case is about more 
than euthanasia; it is about a 
state's right to govern itself 
and its residents without 
interference from the federal 
government. 
The federal government has 
overstepped its bounds in 
bringing the case to the 
Supreme Court. The govern­ment's argument claims the Oregon law -which took effect in the late '90s -vio­lates the federal Controlled Substances Act of 2001. That legislation states that doctors can be punished for prescrib­ing lethal overdoses of medi­cine. /\!though there is some murky legal standpoint to that argument, the court should rule in favor of Oregon and allow it to continue its prac­tice, which has been repeated­ly affirmed by the citizens of Oregon. The recent challenge is little more than the exploitation of a legal loophole 
that seeks to use federal legis­
lation, designed for other pur­
poses, to overrule Oregon's 
law on a semantic technicality. 
There is no federal statute 
that outlaws euthanasia, and 
until one exists, Oregon should 
be allowed to maintain and 
enforce its own legislation. 
Because the law is of great­
est concern to patients faced 
with terminal conditions, the 
federal regulation would be 
placing an undue burden on 
their already difficult decision. 
The Supreme Court would be 
wise to reject the federal gov­
ernment's shaky legal claim 
and allow Oregon to control its 
own matters. 
This column originally 
appeared in the Oct. II issue 
of The Post, the daily publica­
tion at the University of Ohio. 
The views expressed in this 
column are those of the author 
and not necessarily those of 
The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, October 13, 2005 
CD REVIEWS 

Dancehall reggae is stuck in mediocrity 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Critic 
Previous experiences with the music of "Sean da Paul" were less than stel­lar, and his latest album, "The Trinity," is no different. 
"The Trinity" plays pretty much the way you would expect a Sean Paul album to -it makes a person feels as though they have been kidnapped by a crew of tropical pirates and whisked away to a reggaeton dance club 11oor somewhere in the Caribbean Sea. In fact, the reggae feel of the album gives one an irrational desire to blend up a margarita and throw "Pirates of the Caribbean" in the DVD player. 
However, the feeling wears off rather 

The Trinity 
Sean Paul 
Atlantic/WEA 
tion of "Get

Recommended tracks: 'Temperature,''Ever Blazing/ 
Busy," a radio­

'Never Gonna be the Same' and 'Send It On' play single from his previous 
By KELLY DUOOS Scene Critic 
Most people have probably heard of Spoon, but most people, excluding the indie music aficionados, have probably not listened to Spoon. Which is a shame -Spoon is one of the most under-rated bands with the best talent. Fortunately, what allows them to con­tinue making music is their fiercely loyal fan base. 
Released in the summer of 2005, Spoon's "Gimme Fiction" is the band's fifth studio album in their 11 years together. Their previous effort, "Kill The Moonlight," gained them critical respect as well as scenester credit ­Spoon soon became a staple of the alternative music repertoire. 
Now, three years later, Spoon is a band whose next album was greatly anticipated by all those familiar with them. "Gimme Fiction" is not a huge departure from the band's previous efforts. However, there is a noticeably greater level of confidence conveyed in the compositions. Everything on the album feels like it fell together natu­rally. 

quickly after hearing the first three tracks of the album, which are so simi­lar it is nigh impossible to differentiate them. The similarity between tracks is a persistent issue that permeates the entire album -in fact, at some points, if the CD playt~r skipped and changed songs, the discontinuity wouldn't be realized until after the fact. 
If variety is the spice of life, consider Scan Paul's salsa to be extremely mild. Simply put, his song productions are begging for some variety. 
It also has been considerably difficult to understand what Sean Paul is saying on his tracks. At times, his unintelligi­ble gibbering is more confusing than the oral comprehension part of a Spanish test. 
One of the album's high lights 
includes "Ever 


Blazing," a track that could be a thinly­veiled reference to the many wondrous joys of marijuana in the guise of a love ballad in which Sean Paul reaf­firms his love ad nauseum. 
In the tradi­


album, "Dutty Rock," Sean Paul has another subtly carnal entreaty to ladies everywhere in one of the album's true club hangers, "Temperature." After crafting such lyrical gems as, "Well woman the way the time cold I wanna be keepin' you warm I I got the right temperature to shelter you from the storm I Oh lord, gal I got the right tac­tics to turn you on, and girl I I Wanna be the Papa ... You can be the Mom," Paul prov-es himself to be the biggest lyrical monster in hip-hop this side of Young Jeezy. 
The Caribbean musical maestro also manages to wax nostalgic about lost friends (presumably the tragic victims of an unfortunate dance-floor mishap) on the track "Never G"onna Be the Same." 
"The Trinity" is not a terribly good album, nor is it entirely deserving of a rating of zero shamrocks. Worse, it is a middling album, anonymous in its mediocrity. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew 1 @nd.edu 
Spoon's new album conveys natural confidence 

usual piano and

Recommended tracks: 'The Beast and Dragon Adored,''! 
guitar found in

Tum My Camera On' and 'They Never Got You' 
the rest of the album. 

Spoon has really mastered subtly ­in chord changes, dynamics and rhythm. It's true what they say ­sometimes less is more. The drum set takes its role as the prominent source of musical cohesion through all the songs, tying the rhythmic piano and guitar to the vocals. 
The album begins strongly with "The Beast And Dragon, Adored." A laid back drum set rhythm keeps the piano and guitar from feeling too purpose­ridden in the-ir casualness, and a messy guitar part tops off the whole piece with a little bit of fuzz as if to say, "We don't take ourselves too seri­ously." 
"The Two Sides Of Monsieur Valentine" is a fun, toe-tapping piece with low piano parts that add depth to a rather simple tune. 
One of the favorites, "I Turn My Camera On," is the first song to feel a little more tension than the others. A sense of uneasiness and uncertainty is created by the miniscule rhythmic dis­crepancy between the guitar's chords and the high hat's rhythm. It creates a surprising, refreshing and abruptly ending change of pace in the album. 
"I Summon You" shines with skiffle­
sounding guitar 
simplicity. "The Infinite Pet" is held together by a catchy bass clef piano part. "Was It You?" is a bit more remi­niscent of Spoon's experi­mentation in chill electronica -the instru­ments used are unique from the because it is not too distinctive or extraordinary, lends itself well to the music of Spoon by not allowing the vocals to overshadow the instrumenta­tion. 


This album inspires toe tapping, head nodding and singing along more than it does dancing or rocking. 
"Gimme Fiction" is the kind of music that makes for an extremely good driv­ing-around-at-night-with-no-place-to­be soundtrack. 
Contact Kelly Duoos at kduoos@nd.edu 
"They Never Got You" builds momen­tum with the use of barely-noticeable, yet genius, chord changes. "Merchants Of Soul" ends the album with a slightly exotic sound, which includes a string section and handclaps. 
Comparable to "Kill The Moonlight" in quality, but not quite as classic, "Gimme Fiction" encompasses all the facets of Spoon -electronic, acoustic and very laid-back aspects are all included. "Gimme Fiction" is extremely driven by the simple beats of the drum set. Lead singer Britt Daniel's voice, 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, October 13, 2005 
page 13 
CD REVIEWS 
Fiona Apple successfuly reemerges after hiatus 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN A<Sisrarll Seem· Ediwr 
Most artists who went six years betwnnn albums, particularly a young, fenutiP singer, would be forgotten by audiences and dropped by their rncord lalwls. 
Somehow Fiona Apple, whnthnr through lwr Parly promise as an artist or siHH'r tnmtrity. managns to mnnrge aft.Pr a six-ynar hiatus, trouhl<l with her rnrord lalwl and s1weral producer rhanges with a gn~at rww album that builds on tlw cartwr she estahlislwd in thn '1J0s and rt~vnals thn depth that age and time has giVPn to her talent. 
Appln was part of the strong group of femaltl singnrlsongwrit.nrs who PIIIPrgPd in tlw IHtrly '90s, and her Pmotional frankrwss made hnr popular with 1:ritics and audiences alikn. While nmbracnd by the mainstream. slw was also painted as unstahl1~ and overly emotional. 
The story behind the production of "Extraordinary Machine" is, well, noth­ing short of extraordinary. Apple began the album with producer .Jon Brion, who had worked on her 11)1)(, debut, "Tidal," and her 1999 follow-up, "When tho Pawn... " Much of tlw mate­rial on "Extraordinary Machine" stems from Apple's breakup with director Paul Thomas Anderson ("Boogie Nights." "Magnolia.") 
She was unhappy with the result, as was lwr label, Sony, so the album was put on hold. Apple reached out to hip­hop producer Mike Elizondo, who worked with ads likn 50 Cnnt, but Sony balked at reflnaneing tho album, which it thought didn't have enough eornmnr1:ial appeal. 
The album stalled. and Apple retreated to Veniee, but the Brion ver­sion of tho album was leaked on tho Internet on frnefiona.eom. Tho buzz that it generated was strong enough to got tho nnw album baek on track, eul­minated with its release on Oet. 4. 
Tho album's eponymous track, "Extraordinary Machine," one of two Brion-produced versions that were kept, is one of the album's strongest. It 
combines a lilt­
ing rhythm and 

Extraordinary 
an unusual per­
cussive beat with great voeal tim­
Machine 
ing from Apple. The jazzy,
Fiona Apple 

piano-heavy and lyrically inspiredSony "Better Version of Me," emerges as another strong track that seems reminis­eent of past 
'!JjJ 0{d ·1.,/J iff;~ 
Recommended tracks: 'Extaordinary Machine,' 
Apple songs like 
"Limp" and 
"Sleep to 

'Limp,"Sleep to Dream' and 'Better Version of Me' 
Dream." 

"Window" begins with a soft beat. but it swituy swings into a deeper, angrier territory for the chorus in whieh Apple proelaims, "I had to break the window I it just had to be I better that I break the window I than him or her or me." 
The song "Tymps (The Sick in the Head Song)," while using xylophones, actually reveals the hip-hop innuenee Elizondo brings to the album and has a catchier beat than many Apple songs. 
The album reveals how Apple, both vocally and in her songwriting abilities, has evolved as an artist. The songs still have their trademark honesty and frank emotions, but the adolescent rage has been replaced with deeper insights. 
The songs still deal primarily with 

New albutn appeals to new listeners with unique style 
By JOE LATTAL 
Scl'nl' Criric 
At the end of thn Grnnk movin "Z," tlw lirst thing tho governmnnt banned was "long hair on malos." .lim .Iamos, IIHtd singer of My Morning Jaekel, would havn been burnml at the stake for his hippi1~ pirate style. 
.Just like tlw cult film. his band's new album, "Z," suceessfully attracts nnw­conH•rs to the indie genre, as wnll as maintains fans of the band's previous material. 
Wlwn alt-r.ountry is looked up in the dictionary, Louisville's My Morning Jacknt can he found (not Wilco). The entry's definition included nwlodic vocals that lwld long notes, slow and dntailed tunes, a raw, autlwntie sound and an Aspnn Edgn beer advertisement eredit (for their single "Mahgeetah"). 
The biggest change from "It Still Moves," .Jacket's last album, to "Z" might be in tlw faster tempo and less repetition in the songwriting. The first four songs of "Z" are a total of 14 min­utes, compared to 22 minutes for the first four songs on "It Still Moves." 
The opening track "Wordless Chorus" sounds morn like a Flaming Lips eover than anything My Morning Jacket has released before. Electronic synth puls­es knnp tho beat as James' familiar and warm voiee enters. The song cli­maxes with James' wild yet melodic howls. 
"It Beats 4 U" relies on roll and rim percussion as well as a ehorus that n~sembles a more conventional, main­stream all-rock artists like Abandoned Pools or Our Lady Peace. James holds his notes in the chorus and bridge just like on previous songs "Masterplan" and "Hun Thru" from "It Still Moves." 
"Gideon" is the 

z 
first radio single off "Z" and 
sounds more like past .Jacket

My Morning 
material. 
Arpeggios onJacket clean electrie guitar cushioned Ato Records by a pleasant kick drum and ,·,·.. )_ --~--~ ~<-.5~~!~-~=-~-~~ repetitive bass 
line, as well as

~p !tjj':Jije J. 
the anthemic ringing major

Recommended tracks: 'Gideon,''What a Wonderful 
chords open the track as James holds long notes 

Man,"It Beats 4 U' and 'Wordless Chorus' 
in both tho verse and chorus. The restrained, innocent vocals are similar to voeallines from "It Still Moves." 
Immediately after "Gideon," the band gets its second wind with the fun and energetic "What a Wonderful Man." The song is just over two minutes, unusually short for a My Morning .Jacket tune. The sound is straight clas­sic rock. "What a Wonderful Man" would fit on any Who or Alice Cooper record. Sing-along vocals, playful piano, sincere guitar and a memorable chorus make the track a highlight. 
But James and company make up for the time on the next two tracks, "Off the Heeord" and "Into the Woods." lie opens "Off the Hecord" with an estab­lishing guitar introduction. The verses' rhythmic strumming combined with James' jubilant screaming actually sound punk influenced -strange for a rnlationships, but Appln snems to have found deeper personal insights, as songs likn "Extraordinary Machinn" rnveal. 
Ovnrall, the album reveals that Apple is still the same artist who put out "Tidal" and "When the Pawn ... " but. that she has grown up and her music has grown with her. I lor choice of pro­ducers was a wise one, since the album is musieally cohesive but still managns to have stand-out singles that can easi­ly be played on the radio. 
Tho album balanees her emotional honesty with innovative, inten~sting arrangements that highlight her pow­erful voiee and insightf'ullyries. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

band whoso load singer is more likely to dross like a pirate, cowboy or hermit for Halloween than a skater. 
The only disappointment with the album is that it is top heavy. Tho first five songs are strong and catchy. The rest of the album lacks a "Hun Thru" or "Just One Thing." Listeners will be better ofT repeating the first half than eontinuing on with the rest. 
My Morning Jaekel still employs the unusual recording styl11 that makes thn album sound like it was written in a log cabin -voeals echo distantly and songwriting invokes country west11rn innuenees with major chord progres­sions and gentle, personal melodies. 
The band is definitllly evolving, how­ever, and the music features more vari­ety than previous records. 
Contact Joe Lattal at jlattal@nd.edu 
page 14 

The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 13, 2005 
MEN'S INTERHALL -BLUE LEAGUE 
Breslin leads Alumni over archrival Dillon 
Zahm finishes season unbeaten with victory over winless Knott 
By JIM BRADY 
Sports Writer 
It may have taken more than seven days to complete, but the second half of the Alumni-Dillon football game was played Thursday night after lightning delayed the game last week. 
Alumni beat Dillon, 20-15, as Andrew Breslin threw a go­ahead, 60-yard touchdown pass to Ryan McGettigan that put the Dawgs up, 13-6. 
For those anticipating the end of the game, it was worth the wait. 
Last week, the action started on the first play from scrimmage when Bret Shapot nailed Dillon fullback Alex Duffy, jarring the ball loose and giving Alumni pos­session. 

Alumni kept their fast start going when Breslin ran 20 yards on a fake punt and converted on fourth down. 
Quarterback Kurger Trusdell then punched the ball in on a sneak from in close, giving Alumni a 6-0 lead following a missed extra point. 
Dillon then took over for the remainder of the first half with an effective ball control offense lead by fullback Greg Belatti and running back Alex Duffy. 
Cornerback Justin Figueroa intercepted an Alumni pass, and the Dillon offense did not squan­der the opportunity to take advantage of an Alumni mistake. 
Dillon quarterback Kenny Cushing capped ofT the drive with a sneak that ran the score to 7-6 after the made extra point. 
The second half of the game saw Alumni come out hungry with a few tricks up its sleeve. 
Breslin's touchdown pass to McGettigan was actually a half­back pass, as Breslin took a pitch. broke it outside and then stopped to fire the ball do'Anfield to the receiver. 
Both defenses played well in the second half, with players such as Justin Figueroa for Dillon and Nick Chambers for Alumni stepping into bigger roles. 
Alumni sealed the game with a blocked punt that was recovered in the end zone by Mike Rooney for a touchdown. 
The win moved Alumni to 1-2­1 on the season. 
"It was very nice to end on a win against a big rival," the cap­tains said. 
This loss sets Dillon back to 2­2, and their playoff hopes are now in jeopardy. 
Zahm 8, Knott 6 

Zahm and Knott played a clos­er game than their incoming records would have indicated, but in the end Zahm prevailed over Knott. 
Knott looked impressive throughout the first half, running the ball at will with halfback Brian Segobiano. 
The Knott offensive line gained an upper hand on the Zahm defense, and Segobiano took advantage of his opportunities. He slashed through the holes, including an impressive 55-yard touchdown run that put Knott up 6-0. before a failed two point conversion. 
As the game wore on. the Knott offensive line seemed to wear down, whereas the Zahm defen­sive line grew stronger. 
On their second possession of the second half, Zahm put together a long scoring drive that was set up by a 45-yard pass from quarterback Sean Wieland to running back Theo Ossei-anto, putting Zahm on the Knott 1­yard line. 
Two plays later, fullback Cameron Muhlenkamp punched in the tou.chdown, and Zahm took the lead when Wieland threaded a pass into the end zone to convert the two point conversion and make the score. 8-6. 
Knott had several opportunities to re-take the lead. One promis­ing drive was halted when Knott quarterback Mike Peters was hit and fumbled. 
The game ended when Peters stood in and took a big hit but overthrew Segobiano on a play that could have changed the out­come of the game. 
Zahm improved to 4-0 after this win and capped a perfect regular season. 
Knott, on the other hand. will finish their season as a disap­pointi!lg 0-4 but were able to play a good team competitively. 
Contact Jim Brady at jbrady1 @nd.edu. 
MLB PLAYOFFS 

White Sox top Angels after disputed dropped third strike 
Crede drives in winning run on two-out, ninth inning double; Sanders slugs Cardinals past Astros in Game 1 
strike three -but not the third raised his right arm and closed loss in the opener. held throughout last year's NLCS 
Associated Press 

out. -Chicago beat the Los his fist, signaling strike three. against the Astros. The home Angeles Angels 2-1 on Joe "When he rings him up with a Cardh1als 5, Astros 3 team won every game, giving St. 
CHICAGO -The Angels were Crede's two-out double in the fist, he's out," Los Angeles man­Remember this chant from Louis a seven-game victory and a certain they were headed to extra ninth to even the best-of-seven ager Mike Sciascia said. postseasons long ago? trip to the World Series. innings. AL championship series at a Being a catcher -Sciascia was "Reggie! Reggie! Reggie!" In the league's first champi­
A.J. Pierzynski and the White game apiece. one, too -Pierzynski knew to There's a new Mr. October in onship rematch since 1992, the Sox had other ideas -and so did In a sequence as bizarre as any play it all the way through, just in the baseball playoffs, and that Cardinals again got the upper the home plate umpire. imaginable on a baseball field, case. He twirled around and hus­first name sure sounds familiar. hand on their division rival, a 
So while third-string catcher Pierzynski swung at and missed a tled to first. Reggie Sanders kept up his tor­team they finished 11 games Josh Paul and his Los Angeles low pitch from Angels reliever Positive the inning was over, rid postseason with a two-run ahead of in the NL CentraL They teammates ran off the field Kelvim Escobar, appearing to end Paul rolled the ball out to the homer and Chris Carpenter have to get by the Astros again for Wednesday night, Pierzynski took the bottom of the ninth inning mound with the Angels already grounded Houston's offense, lead­a chance at World Series redemp­ofT for first base, triggering what with the score tied at 1. coming ofT the field, so Pierzynski ing the St. Louis Cardinals past tion after their four-game sweep is sure to go down as one of the The ball was gloved by Paul -was easily safe. the Astros in Game 1 of the NL by the Boston Red Sox in 2004. most disputed endings in postsea­replays appeared to show he Mark Buehrle pitched a five­championship series Wednesday Game 2 is Thursday night. son history. caught it cleanly just before it hitter for the first complete game night. Houston's 20-game winner, Roy 
Given a second chance when would have hit the dirt. And of this postseason, and the White The Cardinals extended the pat­Oswalt. goes against Mark Mulder umpire Doug Eddings called behind him, Eddings clearly Sox bounced back from a tight tern of home-field dominance that of the Cardinals. 
The Obsw1er accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. ar the Notre Dame ofllce. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir all classifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

LOST & FOUND LOST ON 9/28 · DIAMOND TENNIS BRACELET REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL SHARON 631·5248. LOST: Womens eyeglasses, brown frames (Ralph Lauren). Lost on Oct. 7. Reward. Call574-904·9831 FOUND LATE SEPT. Between Legends and Mendoza sterling silver Tiffany bracelet. Call and identify. Kate 631·5314 WANTED ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work $12.25 base/appt. Flexible schedules around classes, Gain exp. in customer sales & service, Conditions apply, all ages 17 & older, Call Today 574·273-3835. NOW HIRING Have a car? Need some extra cash? Jimmy John s is hiring drivers for all shifts. Contact Chuck at 286·0299 . BABYSITIER Wanted! Family in Granger· days & nights. Car rqrd. Call Laura 243·4776.  FoR SALE Elegant all brick 3bdrm home & garage.Nicely remodeled. gorgeous inside. 1 mi to ND. $175,900. 283·0629 1 bdrm condo near NO. All appliances. $69,900. Call Kim Kollar 574·280·8160. CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE 3 bdrm house on Riverside Drive, 5 mins. to ND: Quiet, safe neighborhood. $125,000. Call 574-234·6747. NO/Leeper Park area. .­Immediate possession. Great condition! 4BR,2 BA$134,500. MLS 203577. ReMax 100, Barb Foster, 574·968-4208. 5 mins to ND. 52420 Kenilworth Rd , 2 story,4 bdrms, 2 1/2 baths. Totally remodeled in 2005. Everything is new except the basement. Park·lik\l 213 acre lot. $224,900. Broker owned. Re/Max 100 Betty Frame (574) 532·9867 Ride your bike to campus! Just off Angela. 1400 sq. ft. with loads of character. Under $1 05K. Call Pam Proctor 574-707-9357 ReMax 100.  FoR RENT GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS andersonNDrentals.com Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND game weekends. 7732182203 HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAILABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS UPTO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO NO. FOR 06· 07 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS· OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315-5032. YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apartments available for 06·07 school year. Call today 235-7234. BLUE & GOLD HOMES. Best rates for weekend, monthly & yearly rentals. 574·250·7!)53. Rooms in private home for rent during ND football weekends or other ND·SMC events. Call 243·0658. HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3;4.5,6 Bedrooms includes all utilities, local phone,washer/dryer, security system. $400/student. Office 234-9334, Cell315·2509 ndstudentrentals.com  NO HOME GAME WEEKENDS Very nice 3bdr home, fully fur· nished,walk to NO. Garage+ 5 off· street parking,gas grill. Open lease after. 283-0629 HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BEDROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDITION.CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Sean 532-1895. 2brm turn apt ND & SMC events. 254·1600 WALK TO SCHOOL 2·6 BEDROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 11/21/05·5/06. Call Mary Anne Benedict 607. 723· 7363. WEEKEND GUESTS. Nicely furnished, one bdrm. apt. in safe Mishawaka area. $175 for 2 nights. 276-3717 Paradise! Privacy' For rent-the East Wing of 12,000+sf gated estate/1 oacres located 1 7 minutes to ND.Furn 5 bdr/3ba, private kitchen,huge family roomw/fp. Pool,2ponds,tennis. Daily ND transpo avail. Ideal for 3-5 friends/MBNgrad students. Will hold for future occupancy. $1395 all or $300 per room,inc util. 269·683·5163.  5bdrm house, sleeps 12. Avail. football season. 574·261·0349. USC Weekend: Executive Villa 2 Bedrooms, Kitchen/Bar Family, TV Room, Patio on Water, Gourmet Breakfast $700.00, per Bedroom/Weekend 574-220·6285 TICKETS WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. 289·9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$: www.victorytickets.com BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT· BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273·3911. WANTED:ND-USC football tix. TOP$$$ PAID. CALL 574·232·2378 A.M. 574-288·2726 P.M. BUY/SELL!TRADE OR SWAP NO FOOTBALL TIX. 289·8048. NEED USC & TENN TIX & PARKING PASS. 574·276·8507. A FARM FAMILY NEEDS 2 OR 4 USC TIX. WILL PAY A FAIR PRICE. 654-0169 (local call) Alum needs NO-USC tickets. Please call Mike at 607-733·4590  I need USC tix. Call Nick at 330·207-7434 TICKETS UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. M.L. Gude, esc. at 1·7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. SPRING BREAK • Early Booking Specials· FREE Meals & Drinks · $50 Deposit · 800-234·7007 www.endlesssummertours.com Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties' Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreaktravel.com 1·800·678·6386 Prepare ye the way of the Gonk The Gonk lifts weights His name is the Gonk Call him the Gank Grip, pull, grip, pull, grip, pull  
I  


Thursday, October 13, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Brown works hard in the water and in class 
Junior swimmer from Kokomo, Ind. excels in biology research while leading the Irish 

What are you doing next summer? 

r 
./All returning ND & St. Mary's undergrads eligible ./Study in London ./Travel in Europe ./Earn 6 credit hours ./Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Make Your Appli ati n v rTh Break for 2006 &2007 rogrammes 
Applications are available at 223 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edu/--sumlon 
By JACK THORNTON 
Sports Writer 
Sinen Ted Brown nntered Notre Danw as a freshman in 200:~. he has bnr.n honored with thn Meghan B1H1lnr and Collnen llipp Award. twien bnen named an honorable mnntion Aeadnmie All­Anwriean. presented a paper in front of thn American Association of Physical Anthropologists and main­tainnd a :~.(,26 CPA. 
And hn swam a little in bntwnen. 
Tlw amount of swimming the l1-foot-2 junior dons proves his valun to thn dnfnnding Big East Champion mnn's tnam. Brown racnd in ninn diiTnront evonts last year, making him one of tho most vnrsatile swimmnrs on thn t11am. 
"lin's right in thn middln of things," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "lin's a Univnrsity reeord­holdnr, and hn's bnnn onn of our top two or throe scorers every y111tr he's b1wn here." 
Brown currently holds the school rncord in thn 500-yard lhwstyln with a time of 4:25.83 and ranks in the top-five in school history in the 1,000 frenstyle, 200 freestyle and 400 individual medley, as well as top 10 in the I ,650 freestyle. everything he does," Brown 
Brown contributes more to said. "lie didn't push me into the team than just his blazing swimming, he merely intro­speed. duced me into swimming, and 
"lin's a workout leader," with that introduction, I imme­Welsh said. "lin's not only a diately fell in love with the workhorse on meet days, he's pool. I love waking to the smell a workhorse on of chlorine." training days too. In 2004, 
lie sets a very Brown won the
"1/e's not only a

high performance Meghan Beeler standard in prae­workhorse on meet and Colleen tien every day. days, he's a JJipp Award, "We're better given to an
workhorse on

boeause if you outstanding want to keep up training days, too. He freshman who with Ted, you sets a very high best exempli­gotta go pretty fi(JS vitality,
performance

fast." eom peti ti ve­
Junior Tim standard in practice ness and love Kngnlman has every day." for Notre spent his entire Dame. career at Notre The award is
Tim Welsh

Damn keeping up named after 
Irish coach

with Ted. the two swim­
"II e 's really mers who died u n i q u n . in 199:~ in a Kegelman said. "lie's just real­bus accident. ly positive about everything, "IIe has spirit with every­nven swimming when it's hard thing," Welsh said. "He is or school work when it gets growing to embody what we tough." want to be. lie's pure, he's 
Brown says he picked up his honest, he's gentle, he's a work ethic from his father, fierce competitor, driven aca­who swam at Princeton, but he demically. discovered a passion for swim­"Stop me when I say some­ming himself. thing that's not Notre Dame­
"My dad is my role model, like." and I look up to him as some­Indeed, the central Indiana one who dons his best at native does not stop working 
hard whnn he crosses Juniper Road back to the main part of campus. 
''I'm doing three research projects, one in biology, one in anthropology and onn in clini­cal medicine," said Brown, who is a member of Notre Dame's Academic llonors Program for Student-Athletes and will take the MCATs in April. 
"I've always wanted to be a doctor," Brown said. "But sinen I've started doing resnareh, especially my biology n1seareh under Professor Martin Tenniswood, I've come to morn appreciate the research side of medicine, and in an ideal world, I would love to be a professor and also be a doe­tor." 
Brown's intense work sched­ule is the subject of mueh jok­ing in the locker room. 
"We give him garbage for being at the Library on a Friday night, but he takes it with a grain of salt, so he's a good sport about it," eo-cap­tain Patrick Heffernan said. 
Brown, who counts the team's annual "Speedo Hun" among his favorite Notre Dame memories, says it's all about maintaining balance. 
"What's most important is finding a balance between aca­demies, ath leties and just 
hanging out with l.hn guys ­that's thn key to finding happi­ness in lifo and getting the most out of Notre Damn nxpe­rience." 
Still, thn ribbing doesn't stop with tho work ethie. 
"We tnasn him for being from Kokomo. Ind., so he's not quite a townie, but he's from Kokomo, so just about," lie/Ternan said. 
Like any good Midwnstnrnn't, this eternal optimist is quiek to dnfnnd his hometown. 
"One cool fact about Kokomo is that we have tho most fast food r·nstaurants per capita in the world," Brown said. 
"The guys givn mo a rough timn beeausn thny say I grnw up in a little box in Kokomo, Ind., but al'tnr we swim l'urdun in a couple wonks, I'm gonna have the guys over to my house, and I'm positivn they're gonna fall in love with Kokomo." 
Whether Brown ean snll the swimming and diving tnam on the fast food capital of tlw world, the squad is alrnady sold on Brown. 
"Just what makes Ted spn­eial is Tnd. just thn human being he is, and that's what wn love," Welsh said. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 
The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 13, 2005
~ag<l6
==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= 
MEN'S INTERHALL -GOLD LEAGUE 
Keenan and Morrissey looking to grab playoff spots 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA and 
BECKI DORNER 
Sports Wrirers 
Thursday's game between Keenan and O'Neill will signal the end of the regular season for both teams. 
Both the Knights and the Angry Mob .come into the game with a 2-1 record looking for another win to secure their spots in the playoffs. 
O'Neill comes into the game looking to stop the Keenan offense that seemed unstop­pable in their win over Stanford. Knight's quarterback Rob Coly and wide receiver Dan Zenker accounted for all three touch­downs in their previous game. 

O'Neill's captain Matt Hughey recognizes their strength. 
"Our biggest challenge will be trying to stop the Keenan rush­ing game," Hughey said. 
The Angry Mob will need to utilize the size of their defense if they wish to shut down this seemingly unstoppable duo. 
As the defending interhall champions, Keenan is hungry to continue into the post season. Despite injuries to their defense, the Knights continue to look strong. 
Their offense was unstoppable in their victory over Stanford and hopes to continue to be so. The Knights will look to bring this same intensity to Thursday's game. 
"We definitely focused on 
team intensity," captain Vince Lyzinski said. "If they can bring that intensity to Thursday's game, a fierce match is sure to be seen." 
This game sits at high stakes for both the Knights and the Angry Mob. A win for either team will secure them a spot in the post season. 
The Knights hope to regain last year's title as interhall champions and prove that their early loss to Zahm was not to be taken seriously. A win for O'Neill will verify that they are, in fact, as strong as the record states. 
Morrissey vs. Stanford 
Everything Morrissey and Stanford have worked for this 
season will be on the line when they play their last game of the season today at 7 p.m. on Riehle West fields. 
Stanford comes into the con­test on the brink of a playoff berth, fresh off a well-played 14-6 win against Alumni this past Sunday that brought their win total to two. 
Their win against Alumni was anchored by the performances of quarterback Matt McQueary and running back Kevin O'Boyle, and the team is confi­dent coming into the game. 
The Stanford defense was also solid. Led by Dave Constanzo's two interceptions, they held off Alumni despite a touchdown late in the fourth. 
Following a heart-breaking 
loss to Dillon on a quarterback sneak in the last minute of play, the Manorites of Morrissey have a lot of positives to bring to the game as well. 
Quarterback Mike Spencer had a solid game and rose to the occasion numerous times, including a 15-yard touchdown run with six minutes to play to give Morrissey the lead at the time. 
With a 2-1 record, playoff hopes for Morrissey are still alive as well. 
With their entire seasons on the line for both of these teams, it will be a hard-hitting game. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at 
dkrasul@nd.edu and Becki 
Dorner at bdorner@nd.edu 

"I don't know how long she'll to come in and do a lot of game en route to winning Non-conference opponents play, I don't know how effec­scoring for us down low," Illinois' Ms. Basketball as a include Big Ten foes Michigan,
McGraw 

tive she'll be, we just want to McGraw said. "I think she's senior. Wisconsin, Indiana and continued from page 24 get her out somebody that "I think our strength is going Purdue, as well as 2005 Final there and needs to have a to be in our balance," McGraw Four participant Tennessee. ACL she suffered at the end hope that by good year." said. "This team has a lot of "I think we have challenged
"/ think we have

of last season. January she's But these three talent but they weren't really ourselves for sure this year Allen, named to the All-Big laying like she challenged ourselves players are not able to make a big impact. with the schedule we have," East Freshman team, said she did last year," for sure this year the only ones This year will be one where McGraw said. "I think the Big will be back by the first game McGraw said. who will lead the we really look for each player East has gotten better and will
with the schedule we

of the year, Nov. 18 against Another key Irish this year. to contribute and conversely, be very strong this year. I Michigan. And if the Irish win for the Irish have. I think the Big The 6-foot-5 that's sort of our weakness think the teams coming in this this game, it will be McGraw's will be senior East has gotten better sophomore because what we lacked last year have added a lot to SOOth win in her 23 years of forward Melissa D'Amico year was some consistency replace the ones we lost. It's
and will be very

coaching. Courtney will play a key from them. So we're hoping going to be a very difficult 
''I'm doing pretty much LaVere. strong thsi year. " role after the they can maintain a constant year in that our schedule is everything but just slower LaVere has Irish lost their level of good things." going to be very demanding, than everyone else is," Allen been plagued two starting post Notre Dame will need this we really have to be ready."
Muffet McGraw 

said. 'Tm working on it -it's by injuries players to gradu­depth facing a new and And for Duffy, this offseason
Irish coach 

getting there." most of her ation, as will improved Big East conference. can't be over soon enough. 
McGraw said she just wants career, but much improved Its new conference opponents "It can't come soon enough," to get a feel for how Allen has McGraw thinks point guard include Marquette and South she said. "The offseason takes recovered from the injury, as she needs to have somewhat Tulyah Gaines. Freshman Florida at home and Louisville forever." the sophomore has been anx­of a breakout season in the Lindsay Schrader is sure to and Cincinnati on the road. ious to get back on the court post. contribute on offense, as she The Irish play DePaul both at Contact Heather Van Hoegarden this fall. "I think that she's really got averaged 20.7 points per home and on the road. at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

·--------------------------------· 
lafayette Square Townhomes 
4 and 5 bedrooms on 3 levels of living all including: 
• Dishwashers 
• 
Washers and Dryers 

• 
ADT Security Systems 


*NEW MANAGEMENT SPECIAL* 
Only $210 Per Person For the first 10 Apartments Leased for the 06-07 School Year 
574-233-5704 or Nicole_Soko@hotmail.com 
What•s on Your Mind? 
An Invitation to all Arts and Letters Students to An Informal Discussion with 
Mark Roche 

I. A. O'Shaughnessy Dean of the College of Arts and Letters I 
I 
·I 
~ 
I~
What is current student perception of the "personality" of the College? 
I 
I I· I 
How do we create a positive perception of the College that 
reinforces student identification with Arts and Letters? If you were Dean, what might you change to enhance learning in the College? Topics for discussion will include: Undergraduate Research Opportunities in the College Fellowship and Scholarship Opportunities 
for Arts and Letters Students Jobs Opportunities for Arts and Letters Graduates Whatever else might be on your mind 
I .·1 I 
Please join Dean Roche in the Hospitality Room 
I 
South Dining Hall 

I (entrance across from Reekers) October 24 at 7:00 p.m 

I
~. 

r I I 
•: I 
AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 13, 2005 Cotv1PILfD FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 17 
NFL AFC East 
tnam New England Miami Buffalo NY Jets  rPcnrd 3-2 2-2 2-3 2-3  pore. .600 .500 .400 .400  PF 118 82 68 61  I' A 136 71 83 85  
AFC North  
tPlllll Cincinnati Pittsburgh Cleveland Baltimore  rpcord 4-1 3-1 2-2 1-3  pnre . .800 .750 .500 .250  I'F 124 105 65 47  I'A 61 59 74 87  
AFC South  
tnarn Indianapolis Jacksonville Tennessee Houston  rneord 5-0 3-2 2-3 0-4  pnrc. 1.000 .600 .400 .000  PF 106 85 103 44  Pi\ 29 84 126 99  
AFC West  
Lnarn Denver Kansas City San Diego Oakland  record 4-1 2-2 2-3 1-3  pHrc . .800 .500 .400 .250  PF 101 91 149 76  Pi\ 87 91 112 89  
NFC East  
tnam NY Giants Washington Dallas Philadelphia  rm:ord 3-1 3-1 3-2 3-2  perc. .750 .750 .600 .600  PF 136 62 121 122  Pi\ 98 58 98 101  
NFC North  
tnam Detroit Chicago Minnesota Green Bay  n~cord 2-2 1-3 1-3 1-4  pHrC. .500 .250 .250 .200  PF 71 62 64 124  PA 75 59 107 95  
NFC South  
team Tampa Bay Atlanta Carolina New Orleans  record 4-1 3-2 3-2 2-3  perc. .800 .600 .600 .400  PF 89 114 127 71  PA 59 88 116 139  
NFC West  
loam Seattle St. louis Arizona San Francisco  record 3-2 2-3 1-4 1-4  perc. .600 .400 .200 .200  PF 126 128 94 79  I'NG 107 148 134 160  

Men's Club Water Polo 
team last week total pts 
1 CaiPoiSU 1 100 2 Michigan State 2 94 3 Arizona 3 90 4 Grand Valley SU 4 58 5 Fla. International 6 71 6 Michigan 5 75 7 UCLA 10 60 8 Yale 7 59 9 Fresno Slate 8 55 10 Williams College 11 54 11 NOTRE DAME 17 48 12 Villanova 16 44 
around the dial 
MLB PLAYOFFS 
Astros at Cardinals 7:00p.m., FOX 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Clemson at NC State 6:30p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Jeremy Shockey, the New York Giants' flamboyant and sometimes spectacular tight end, signed a five­year, $31.2 million con­tract extension on Wednesday. 
Shockey's agent, Drew Hosenhaus, said tllfl deal makes him the NFL's high­est-paid player at his position. It indudns a $3 million signing bonus for Shockey, who had two years lol't on his contract. 
The tight end, New York's first-round pick in 2002, had a spectacular rookie year, catching 74 passes for 894 yards. He was voted both to the All­Pro team and the Pro Bowl. 

lie has been bothered by injuries the past two years, although he made the Pro Bowl again in 2003. Last year, he was the Giants' leading receiv­er with 61 catches, but complained at times about having too many blocking duties in a controlled offense designed to help rookie Eli Manning break in at quarterback. 
But with Manning blos­soming this year, Shockey has oncn again regainnd his form, catching 1 7 passes for 251 yards and 
two touchdowns in the first four games, three of them victories. llelped by the addition of wide receiver Plaxico Burn~ss, he has a 14.8 average pnr catch, the best of his career. 
Shockey has bonn con­troversial off tho linld and sometimes on it. 
As a rookie, ho casually threw a cup of ico over his shoulder into tho stands during a playoff gamo in San Francisco, hitting two children. In that gamo, ho droppnd a sun~ touch­down pass that might have clinched the contest for the Giants; instead it prneipitatnd a conwbark by tho 4<JI~rs from a 24­point defieit. tho second biggest comeback in NFL playoff history. 
In 200:J, he publicly criticized (;iants fans for leaving what was nventu­ally a loss to Miami with the game still in doubt. 
In thn offseason this year, lw incurrod tlw iro of coach Tom Coughlin by working out in Miami at a camp run by Hosnnhaus for his elinnts, many, like Shockoy, ex-Miami llurricanns. At one point, Manning 1:al1Pd him, ask­ing him to join t.lw Ciants for tlwir oiTsoason work­outs in East Hutlwrford, N.J. 
IN BRIEF 
Mickelson to compete in 
Michelin Championship lAS VEGAS -Lolly plans to spend a leisurely few days in the desort. 
Phil Miekelson, decompressing after a fine season on tlw PCA Tour, is going to enjoy sonw golf. think about nnxt year -and maybe even win anotlwr title. 
"It's hard for me to get baek up after tlw majors," said Mickelson. who added this year's PCA title to thn Masters green jacket he won last year. 
''I'm using this time now to work on some things and kind of get mysnlf ready and get things figured out going into next year." 
Mickelson begins play Thursday in tho Miehnlin Championship, whieh is being IHJld on two courses the lirst two days, at TPC at Summerlin and TPC at Canyons, with the final two rounds at Summerlin. 
Last year's winnor, Andre Stolz, has an injured left wrist and won't be back to defend his title. 

Eurom~_an teams qualify or 2006"World Cup 
France, Serbia-Montonngro and Sweden clinched Europn's thrno rnmaining automatic berths for nnxt year's World Cup in Germany. 
France defeated Cyprus 4-0 on Wednesday to win Group 4, and Snrbia-Montenegro dnl'natnd nnigh­bor Bosnia-llerzegovina l-0 for first place in Group 7. 
''I'm satisfied and very happy that we qualified," Franee coach Haymond Domenech said. "We won the matches that wo had to." 
Sweden won 3-1 at home ovnr Iceland to secure second plaen in Group 8 behind Croatia. Swnden advanced as one of thn best two sec­ond-place teams. Poland is the other best second-place team arter losing at England 2-1. 
The Czech Hepublie, Turkny, Slovakia, Switzerland and Spain clinched playoff spots by finishing sncond in their groups. 
Three NFL players fined for 
contact with officials 
NEW YOHK-Tampa Bay's Bond1~ 
Barbnr was linnd $:JO,OOO by tlw NFL on Wedrwsday for JHinching an official during last Sunday's ganw with the Nnw York Jnts. 
Tw1r othn r prom i111~ n t pI ayn rs, Baltimore's Tnrroll Suggs and Ed Hend, wen~ lirwd $15,000 1~ach for making eontad with an ollidal dur­ing the Havens' game in l>11troit. 
Of thn thren playnrs, only Suggs was njnetnd. The Bavnns' ILl. Ward, who was njnetnd from tlw Baltimorn-l>ntroit ganw. was not linnd. 
"I think my dad was morn upsPt about tlw linn and mom was morn upsnt bneausn I'm not supposPd to gnt angry on tnlnvision like that." Suggs said. 
Barber inadvPrtPntly hit umpirn Butch llannah in tlw nyP during a scuffle with tlw Jnts' Kevin Mawan in the sneond quartnr of tlw ganw. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 13, 2005 

MLB 
Stottlemyre defends 
Torre against criticisn1 
New York pitching coach unhappy with Steinbrenner's remark 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Almost certain he's stepping down af'ter 10 years as New York Yankees pitching coach, Mel Stottlemyre had harsh words Wednesday for George Steinbrenner and the owner's treatment of' man­ager Joe Torre. 
Speaking in the Yankees clubhouse where he's spent 21 seasons as a player and coach. Stottlemyre said he intfwpreted Steinbrenner's statement fol­lowing the Yankees' elimination by the Los Angeles Angels as a slap at Torre. Steinbrenner said Tuesday: "I congratulate the Angels and their manager on the great job they've done." 
"I laughed when I saw it," Stottlemyre. said. "My l'irst thoughts were, 'What about Joe? Joe had done a hell of a job, too.' To congratulate the other manager and not con­gratulate your own after what he'd done this year, I laughed." 
A Yankees coach since Torre took over as manager following the 1995 season, Stottlemyre criticized the schism between the team's New York and Tampa, Fla., offices and said Torre's job status shouldn't be 
-questioned. "I think it's absolutely ridicu­lous," he said. ''I've been here with Joe for 10 years and this has by far been the toughest year for him, and it's the best job he's done. He's done a good job year in and year out -this year the job he's done was really special because he had a lot of things to battle through." Steinbrenner had nothing to say Wednesday, spokesman Iloward Rubenstein said. Torre, signed through 2007 and owed $13.1 million, did not appear in the clubhous-e Wednesday, and Yankees spokesman Rick Cerrone was unsure when the manager 
would make his end-of-season summation. 
General manager Brian Cashman, whose contract expires at the end of the month, also wasn't in the club­house and didn't return a tele­phone call. 
Third base coach Luis Sojo said that al'ter the Angels beat the Yankees 5-3 in Game 5 on Monday night in Anaheim and advanced to the AL champi­onship series, Alex Rodriguez came to the coaches' room and apologized for his hitting . 133 ( 2-for-15) with no HB!s in the playoffs. 
"IIe blamed himself," Sojo said. "I think he took it person­al. ... Ile said, 'I'm sorry, guys.' ... He felt like he let us down." 
Speaking as clubhouse atten­dants packed boxes of players' belongings and equipment, Stottlcmyre revealed that he decided to resign in May, which is when criticism began as the Yankees slumped to an 11-19 start, their worst in 39 seasons. 
Stottlemyre has threatened to leave after several seasons but came back each time. He said the second-guessing had a "cumulative" affect over the years. 
"I found it weighed a little bit on my thinking off the field. Basically, that's why I made my mind up," he said. 
"It's a very difficult decision, but I guess I didn't forget very easily what went on during the course of the year," he added, his voice filling with emotion. 
Without going into specifics, he made clear there was a split between the team's two offices. 
"Sometimes you have to satis­fy two separate groups of peo­ple, and it shouldn't be that way. It should be you should just have to satisfy one group," Stottlemyre said. "Something needs to be done to have every­body always on the same page." 
He said that if he spoke to potential replacements for him­self, he wasn't sure whether he would recommend the job. He also said criticism got to Torre during this season. 

Hours: Mon-Thu 10-7 Fri-Sat 10-6 Sun Noon-6 
.. 
FYI 



located in the Martin's Supermarket Plaza 1 block east of Turtle Creek Aparttnents 
243-4197 

Looking for an Opportunity to Make a Difference? 
CIA's Directorate of Intelligence will be interviewing candidates for Analyst Positions. 
Representatives from CIA's analytical arm, the Directorate of Intelligence, will be interviewing for analyst positions in Chicago during the week of November 14th. Analysts work on the forefront of protecting national security, quickly assessing how rapidly changing international developments will Impact US Interests at home and abroad. They use information from classified and undassffied sources from around the world to develop and provide the reliable intelligence that is essential for US policymakers to make informed decisions. The Dl is hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Analytic Methodologist • Economic, Political, leadership • Psychological/Psychiatric 

• 
Collection Analyst and Military Analysts Analyst 

• 
Counterintelligence • Science, Technology and • Crime and Countemarcotics Threat Analyst Weapons Analyst Analyst 

• 
Counterterrorism Analyst • Medical Analyst 


Candidates must have at least a bachelor's degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0. Language skills, previous foreign area residence or traVel, and relevant work experience are pluses. Candidates must successfully complete a medical examination, polygraph interview, and an extensive background investigation. All positions require US citizenship and relocation to the WashingtOn, DC area. 
The CIA is America's premier intelligence agency, and we are committed to building and maintaining a work force as diverse as the nation we serve. 
For additional information, and to apply online, please visit www.cia.gov. Successful applicants who have submitted their resume by October 17th will be contacted «> attend an information session and arrange a local area interview. 
An equal opportunity employer and a drug-free work force. 


r-----------------------------~~-------------------------­
Thursday, October 13, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC SoccER 
Pair of freshmen lead Belles past rival Albion 
end or the lirst half on goals by of a pass from defender Mary only to be saved by DeHoo in the to the Belles nine. The Belles
Fran, Hinton record 
Whitney Fron and Lauren Esch. last minute. The remaining time dominated the corner kick gamegoals as Saint Mary's Hinton. The two freshmen com­The Belles held out with a was killed off, and the Belles as well. They managed to areh bined for live shots and numer­strong defensive showing in the were able to emerge from the six balls from the corner slot to moves to 7-6 overall ous scoring chances as the second half, allowing six shots field with a victory in hand. the awaiting mass in front of the Belles moved to 6-4 in MIAA on goalkeeper Laura Heline. The win keeps the Belles in a Albion net, but failed to convert play, 7-6 overall. The lone Albion score came with close heat for third, tied with on any. Albion was grantnd only 
By KYLE CASSILY Fron got the Belles on the under two minutes remaining to Kalamazoo -who defeated two corner kicks, one in each 

Sports Writer 
board first, only 11 minutes into play in the game. Briton attack­Alma in a game played early half. the game. Fron received a pass er Jayne Godlew lined up for a yesterday. The Belles next go into action 
The Belles came out strong from midl1elder Carolyn Logan penalty kick and delivered the Heline made four saves on the against three-win Alma College and quick in a 2-1 victory over and deposited the ball into the ball home to put the game at 2-day, three of which eame in the at home this Sunday at 2 p.m. the Albion Britons on lower right corner of the net. 1, but the Belles would not let crucial second half. Heline was The game is the Belles' second­Wednesday afternoon in a key The second and game-winning the Britons pressure for the able to turn the shots away and to-last home game of' the sea­MIAA league game. goal came towards the end of tying goal. help the Belles take another son. 
It was all freshmen, all the the first half. Hinton ripped a The Belles pushed down into step towards the top of the time for the Belles, as they shot past Albion goalkeeper the Albion zone, and freshman MIAA ladders. Contact Kyle Cassity at jumped out to a 2-0 lead by the Diana DeRoo for the 2-0 lead off Mandy Thomson got a shot off Albion committed twelve fouls kcassily@nd.edu. 
MLB-NLCS 
Cardinals prepare to bid farewell to historic Busch Stadium 
Revolutionary ballpark opened to rave reviews in 1966; will be torn down at conclusion of 2005 playoffs 
All signs that the end is near for after the Cardinals play their final when I'm talking to the guys and openings that mimicked the dis­
Associated Press 
the St. Louis Cardinals' home of postseason game, replaced in we all say, 'I can't believe they're tinguished curves of nearby 
ST. LOUIS -Three giant cranes the last 40 years. 2006 by a new park going up going to knock this place down."' Gateway Arch. loom over the distinctive arched Located just a few blocks from right next door. Despite all the similarities with The seating design stood apart, roof of Busch Stadium. Artwork, the Mississippi Hiver, Busch St. Louis hosted the Houston stadiums such as Cincinnati's too. Whiln the eireular uppnr deck jerseys and other items are scat­Stadium was an architectural Astros in Game 1 of the NL cham­Riverfront, Pittsburgh's Three could have been swapped with tered throughout the home club­marvel when it opened in May pionship series Wednesday night, Rivers and Philadelphia's Riverfront or Atlanta-Fu I ton housn, waiting to be autographed. 196T>, replacing rickety eight wins away from giving Veterans, Busch had a few touch­County Stadium, th1~ middle lnvel A eouple of old green seats, once Sportsman Park and part of the Busch a proper send-off with its es that distinguished it from the stops not long after curving into loeatnd behind home plate, have wave of "cookie-cutter" stadiums first World Series championship others. fair tnrritory on both left and right bnen lnft rwar Heggie Sanders' that revolutionized baseball archi­since 1982 -and its last. Start with the roof, whkh does­field sides, leaving a view of' the IO!~knr. tneture. "It's a great ballpark," Cardinals n't resemble the slopnd structures outside strnnts and a eonduit for 
An attadwd note says, "Please Pour decades later, Busch has catcher Mike Mahoney said. "The covering just about every other frnsh air to flow through the sta­sign thn bark of the seats Iin sil­entered its final days. The stadi­fans an1 unbnlievable. There's so stadium from the '60s. Jnstnad, dium during the brutal St. Louis ver!. Thanks, Hng." um will eome down just weeks much history. There are times Busch had a unique dnsign with summers. 

Aperfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday DJring 
N.D. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 
Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties 
Co1d Beverages 
60" Screen T\''s 
·'f;!t; IIA~1i\ rfho1
FullvEnclosed Teht 
"' 
631-2000 

next to the N.D. Bookstore. vV'NVl.themorrisinn.com 

Mishawaka/South Bend University f>Jrk Mall (located in the Food Court) (5i4) 24:1-8016 
··~~-'" 
.'~a,.•'. :"""""~'
·, ~~ / 

The amount of music your ROKR El can hold depends on the compression rate of your songs and the amount of media stored on your phone. The Motorola ROKR El is aproduct of Motorola, Inc. Motorola and the Stylized MLogo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners. ©Motorola, Inc. 2005. TM &© 2005 Apple. The iTunes and iTunes logo are trademarks of Apple. By ustng the iTunes software you are agreeing to the software licenses in 
::.~~,··-*), 
~,-_..

this package. Cingular and the graphic icon are trademarks of Cingular Wireless LLC. Coverage not available 1n all areas. ©2005 Cingular Wireless. All rights reserved. 
'l'hursday, October 13, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Wallace 
continued from page 24 
with high nxpl'l'tations rhw to an imprnssivn pr11-eollngl' ri'Sllllll1. lin is a nativn of' 1\.nrhoragn, /\Ia., who played with Unitl'd Statns National '!'Pam l>nvl'lopnwnt Program from 2000-2002 and was on thn 2000 Undl'r-1 S tnam that won thn World Championships and thl' 200 I lindi•r-17 tnam that won llw Undl'l'-17 World c:hallnngl'. 
Onn1 in South lknd. Wall1u:n was in tlw starting lirwup l'rlun day 111111, lwginning his consnru­tiv11 ganws strl'ak in his l'n1sh­n11•n opl'rH•r against Minrwsota-Deluth. lin seornd his first goal on his first canwr shot in that ganw. lin f'inislwd the snason with six goals and fivn assists. 
lin went through a slight sophomorn slump, going scorn­less through a :{4-gamn strnteh. lin did. of' course, eontinun his streak by appnaring in every gamn that smtson and rncovnrnd to f'inish with throe goals and night assists. 
Wallaen burst out as a star last ·sPason, finishing third on thn tnam in points with f'ivo goals and nine assists. 
Dospitn Wallae11's play, thn tnam strugglnd in 2004-05, fin­ishing 5-27-() and 1mduring a I9-gamn winless streak to nnd thn season. 
''I'm not sure why that hap­p1mnd last year. but wn'rn doing everything we ean to make sure it doesn't happen again," Wallace said. 
So in this, his senior year, Wallaen is looking to do morP than just nxtnnd his consecutive games streak. lie wants a win­ning season in Jackson's first year. 
"Wn're looking to gnt into tho top livn in thn CCI 1/\., to go pret­ty dm~p into thn CCII/\ playof'fs and to makn the NC/\.1\. tourna­mnnt.," Wallace said. 
Notre Damn plays WatPrloo in an nxhibition gamn Friday, then opnns the regular season in Colorado Springs against 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

'I 

''-1\ I H."'ll \ tJI '\0 IIH II \"L l' I fR\. \I U~' 'H.' ll W\ l'l<Hl.l~ \\1.., 4' 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fn11 2UU6. SPM I"\(; 2007 • .:\ Y 2006-7 li ni\'t.'rsity ( 'ollt.•t!,t.~ nu hlin 
/,\"/··l)/(illf11"/lJiV J''1l:..~E~T/iV(i u~ith 
Kevin \Vhclan.,. l)irector Keough-1\;l) Center, Dublin 
Frida)·~ ()ctobcr 14, 2005 ] :UU pan 129 l)eBartolo 
,·\pplh::sliun D•:~ullilll.'S: "\0\'F'IUJ'.J.I. 1~. !Ill):\ FOH F.\1 1.. !'WJ.l:l'(~. .\'D.\( ·.\UJ:,U< .. L'I.R !110()-7 


MEN'S lACROSSE MEN'S & WOMEN'S TENNIS 
AlSO THIS • 

VS. JOHNS HOPKINS vs.usc WEEKEND • 10/14 -7:30PM@ MOOSE KRAUSE 10/14-4:00PM @ECK TENNIS CENTER 

Quinn 

continued from page 24 
to Leinart respects what Quinn has aceomplishnd so f'ar in his junior season. 
"I In's doing all the things that a good quarterback does," USC coach Pete Carroll said. ''I'm sure that he's confident and strong in the huddln with all those players. llis execution is Pxceptional. His ability to make decisions ... he's really bnen quick to take off at the right times and done it well." 
Carroll understands what a good quarterback must do. Leinart has a 30-1 record as SouthPrn California's starter and two national champi­onships under his belt. 
Quinn entered Notre Dame as a freshman when then-quarter­back Carlyle lloliday was fail­ing to move the 2003 Irish offense in the right direction. In his first career start, the Columbus, Ohio native took his Lafayntt(\ Ind. to Purdun. 
()uinn thrnw 5!J passns in that gamn and was sacknd f'ivn timns. hit many morn and introducnd to the Division-! eol­lngn fi)()tball scene with a bang. 
But maturity and guidance are all part of' thn growth of' playnrs at such a signifkant and spotlighted position, nspn­cially at Notre Damn, whnrn namns likn Montana, Ilornung and Bnrtnlli arn cenwnted in lngnnd. 
"When you look back, lbning Notrn Damn's quartnrbackl is somnthing great," Quinn said. "Hight now, it's a position that I'm trying to fill to the best of' my ability." 
Whether Quinn's best per­formances will nvnr measurn up to Lninart's rnmains to be seen. But Carroll donsn't doubt the junior signal-caller's talent when matdwd with Weis' play calling. 
"lie's just done bnautif'ul things," Carroll said. "lie's doing everything that a great quarterback does. lie's played the bnst that he's playnd and I know that he owes as much to the s~stn~!l and to the style of coach mg. 
Notes: 
+ 
USC will participate in a walk-through practice Friday afternoon in Notre Damn Stadium from 2:30-3:15 p.m., and students are morn than welcomn to grnnt the Trojans as they nntnr the Stadium. 

+ 
ESPN2's morning program Cold Pizza will tape its show Friday l'rom 7-!J a.m. on tlw quad bntwnnn the Library and Notre Damn Stadium. Cold Pizza pnrsonality Woody l'aign is looking fi1rward to his visit to South Bend as lw thinks an upsnt just might bn in the works. 


''I'm pieking Notre Damn," Paign said Tunsday in an intl•r­vinw with Thn Obsnrvnr. "I think tho Irish havn a lngitimat11 chanen. The atmosphere is going to bl' incrndibln." 
1\.f'tnr Cold Pizza finishns tap­ing, tlw show will imnwdiatPiy air at IJ a.m. I·SI' on ESI'N2. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.cdu and Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 13, 2005 
expects each to make an "We have to get those guys impact. reps and playing time through "They do have a very good November and December to get continued from page 24 feel for the game, they know them ready for league play," how to play," Brey said. "That's Brey said. "We've got 11 schol­
"Let's slow the whole game one of the things that we've arship guys, and it's a matter down a little bit and see if we been pretty good at is having of me being patient with them can just plug along and be bet­guys with basketball IQ. and developing them. ter oach day," Brey said. "The youth will get their "We're not going to devfllop 
This is the first season in the chance, and we have to nur­guys at the sacrifice of not reformatted Big East. With the ture them and coach them and being successful in this league, addition of Cincinnati, DePaul. be patient with them and bring because we've been really l.ouisville, Marquottc and them along." competitive in this league and South Florida, the conference Senior point guard Chris we want to continue to do is twt~n stronger than it was Quinn already has noticed the that." last year, when it sent six maturity and devnlopment of Thn Irish coach has tradition­teams to the his nflw team­ally had a core group of' SOVPil NCAA tourna-nlates so far this or eight guys that played night­mnnt. fall. in and night-out, but this ypar 
Big East 
"Let's slow the 

Thn prcsnnen of "They're coming that is not the ease. five new teams whole game down along well," Besides Quinn and junior mnans not every­Quinn said. "1 shooting guard Colin Falls,
a little bit and see 

one will be don't think they nothing is set in stone -not
ifwe can just plug

included in New are your typical even the fronteourt that York Cily when along and be better freshmen any­includes seniors Rick Cornott March rolls each day." more." and Torin Francis. around. The Big Aside from the ''I've talked about our guards East tournament freshmen, the pretty conl'idently, but after 
Mike Brey 

will only take 12 departures of that, who knows?" Brey said. of the 16 teams, Irish coach Chris Thomas and Brey's lack of a solidified forcing Notre Jordan Cornette starting five will slow the Dame to focus on have opened up process of identifying his this tournament as their main playing opportunities for team's offensive and defensive points per game, mostly at the Brey said the team has bro­preseason objective. younger guys who have been a style and identities. off-guard spot, as the point ken the two-hour workouts 
"I don't want to hear guys part of the team but have not "I think with this team, more guard duties belonged to into an hour of individual work talking about getting back to necessarily had a starting role. than any team, you can't have Thomas. and an hour of full-team work the NCAA tournament," Brey Hob Kurz, Russell Carter and preconceived notions or a pre­''I'm excited to fill that role," about five or six times this fall. said. "I said 'Hell, the only Omari Israel all began seeing season plan like this is what Quinn said. "It's my senior "This time of year usually I'm tournament we should be wor­more minutes towards the end we're doing offensively, this is year, and its something that I used to all the assistant [athlet­rind about getting a bid to is of last season. In Notre Dame's what we're doing defensively," look at as an opportunity for ic directors] and administra­the Big East tournament, lone Big East tournament game Brey said. "They'll tell us, and me to show how I am as a bas­tors telling me who I should because not everybody gets to against Rutgers, Carter scored we'll have to adjust-definite­ketball player and a leader." start because they've been that damn thing."' 12 points in 22 minutes. Kurz ly more than any other year The Irish have already had watching the damn pick up 
Notre Dame will also have to had 11 points in Notre Dame's I've been here -to what per­the opportunity to practice games all fall and I haven't deal with the amount of youth NIT loss against Holy Cross on sonalities and skill levels [are] together before the official been able to see them," Brey within their system that will be March 15. kind of exposing [themselves]." start of this season. said. competing for minutes. After Israel's left knee Quinn's ability to run the College teams are now The Irish will open their pre­
The Irish have four incoming swelled up in August, the for­offense and the team will be allowed to workout as a full season Thursday, Nov. 3 at freshmen -Kyle McAlarney, ward had his knee scoped and most important to the squad's team in the off-season for lim­home against Lewis University. Hyan Ayers, Zach Hillesland, debris removed from the area. on-court chemistry. ited time, rather than the indi­and McDonald's All-American Brey estimated Israel would Quinn is coming off a season vidual sessions coaches were Contact Bobby Griffin at Luke Zeller -and Brey not be ready until Nov. 1. in which he averaged 12.6 limited to in thn past. rgriffi3@nd.edu 
II 
II • 
JIM CJ\Y,IEZEL 


Thursday,
Jim Caviezel 
October 13
will be participating in the rosary and speaking 6:45ptn at the on his spiritual journey. 
Grotto 
(Rain Location: Washington Hall) 
Sponsored by: ND Right to Life, Student Government, Knights of Immaculata, Children of 1\:Iary, and the Orestes Brownson Counci 

I ' 

Thursday, October 13, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JOCKULAR ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 

CROISSANTWORLD ADAM FAIRHOLM 
~E:(f'u>E -JI-IE.'f Pui ··reo \-\ e:.'~ (.)\IE.~. Ml.KI1 SwEE-T 
AT SUB 'WI>-~ RtU.I-IT 
CROSSWORD 
AI,;HU::i::i  Jl ::success on a  b4 vvmer or me  
1 Mobile dining  slot machine  "April Theses"  
area  35 Preparations  65 Red state  
5 Quiet  39 "The Time  66 Moisturizer  
9 Kind of surgery  Machine" race  ingredient  
14 Partly 15 "Put Your Head  40 It's not found within the four  67 Status-changing gift  
on My Shoulder" singer, 1959  corners of this puzzle 41 Italian sweetie  68 "_ choice" 69 1929 literary · character in  
16 Chocolate  42 "The Cosby  San Francisco  
substitute  Show" actress  
11 Strike  44 X­ DOWN  
18 Shot's target,  45 Coconut fiber  1 Mixer  
maybe  46 Queue after Q  2 Rising star  
19 "Un Ballo in Maschera" aria 20 1D's and 20's, e.g.  48 Perennial subj. of federal funding debates 50 Hair products  3 Lady friend in Italy 4 Fix, as a drive 5 Must  
22 Rampaging  52 Next  6 French  
24 Literally, "high  57 Dignify  individuals  
ground"  59 Washington  7 Item between  
25 Subatomic particle 26 U.P.S. unit: Abbr. 27 French silk  landmark, with "the" 60 1986 Turner autobiography 61 Asian sea name  two poles 8 Former enemy capital 9 Deep-sea 10 Goal of a  

29 Part of the 63 Cartoonist reading Hindu trinity Walker 11 It opened in 1825 ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Absent from 13 Possible result of a spicy meal 
21 Certain race 23 Polite turndown 25 Impatient gift 
recipients 28" a roll!" 30 Last of a Latin 
trio 31 Sportscaster Allen 32 Ayatollah _ Khamenei 

33 Longtime NBC Symphony conductor 

ONioN .SAI..~<.E ON THE. -eos:::.' 
SANP\o"Jl·Ht.M 

WILLSHORTZ 

34 "Later"  44 Old TV host  53 'Twenty Years  
36 Police staff:  Allen  After" author  
Abbr. 37 Afore 38 European carrier 40 Superman's father 43 How it all  47 Shop worker 48 Singer with a 1978 #1 hit with Barbra Streisand 49 Log  54_Gay 55 Computer game format 56 Bag lady? 58 "Come 59 Prego rival  
started, it's  51 Actor/comedian  62 1990's Indian  
thought  Denis  P.M.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
COPHE j 
1 

rx I I 
Q2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc 

All Rights Reserved  ·  
LEVVA  
rJ  1  tJ  

www.jumble.com 
HOROSCOPE 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


WHAT THE SC.J<AWNY WORKER DID IN THI= IA\RK­
ROOM. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) FLUKE BRIDLE ANSWER 
EUGENIA LAST 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Marion Jones, 30; Kirk Cameron, 35; Martie Maguire, 36; Hugh Jackman. 37 
Happy Birthday: Follow through on one of your dreams. You have nothing to lose and everything to gain this year. You have an incredibly creative mind that will guide you in a unique mannt:r. You will only have yourself to blame if you procrastinate this year. Your numbers are 5, 13, 19, 28, 33, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You have plenty on your plate, hut ihat's when you do your best work. You will make heads turn. Usc your intelligence and personality to enforce your presence as well as your talent. **.. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone close to you will try to fool you by not explaining exactly what's going on. You will be in the dark if you just trust in others. A personal problem is likely to develop. Devote your time and effort to making money. •• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This can tum out to be a mcmorahle day. You will have a chance to do something spectacular that will make an impacl on your future. Travel, knowledge and being creative will all come into play. ••••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may think that you arc in control. but chance~ are very good thai someone else is pulling the strings. Focus on your home and the changes you need to make. Living in the past and holding on to what's not really yours is a bad idea. ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've got a lot more going for you today than you realize. Don't hold back--go after what you want. You will plant a seed in someone's ear that will lead to a great deal in the future. Clear up any misunderstanding. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may know what needs to be done. hut domg it will be another story. Bide your time and watch what everyone else is doing before you make your move. A deception of sorts is likely to cause you some grief. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The spotlight can be yours today if you just follow through. You have,such a creative way of doing things, it would be a shame if you should miss out on an opportunity. ***** SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may know what you have to do to make 
things right at home. hut frankly it won'l he easy. ThL'fe is a good chance someone is not telling you the whole story. Legal mauers must be dealt with. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Travel for business will end up being profitable. You will seal a deal and make new friends along the way. A chance to do something different will make you view life and your future with a new perspective. •••• CAI'RICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Everything will depend on how you conducl yourself around business assocmtes and people who can influence your fuiUre. Success can be yours, but only at the price of some personal problems. •••. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Emotional deception may cause some gnct for you today. Be upfront and honest if you want to temper prohlt:ms with an old lover. Set the record straight once and for all. •• I'ISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can get a lot covered if you decide to spruce up your home. Money is coming your way. but the chance you will overspend is likely. Don't do anything impulsive. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You are sweet, innocent and eager to discover new things. You arc an adventurer, with an innovative and inventive mind. You can charm everyone around you to follow your lead and help you reach your goals. 
Eugenia'J Web xites: astmad\•it·e.c·mn fiJr jim. eugtmia/a.,·t.c·tml /(Jr t'c~t~/idt•fltml c·tm:;u/tatltm.\ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer P.O. Box 779
and mail to: Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
.. 
r 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 13, 2005 
page 24 
BASKETBALL 

Building to last 
Duffy directs Batteast-less women; men rest faith in senior point guard Quinn 
By HEATHER 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
VAN HOEGARDEN 

Associate Sports Editor Sports Writer With the new conference With the departure of their structure and the number of leading scorer and an injury young players, Notre Dame's 
to their key freshman at the focus heading into the season nnd of last season, the Irish is simply making it to thn tour­have uncertainty their pro­nament. 
gram. But the orw thing that That is, the Big East tourna­will carry over from last year ment. is the leadership of senior While in years past the 
point guard Megan Duffy. team's primary focus has been "I think the younger players the NCAA tournament, the are going to look at her and Irish have a more realistic just draw on hor eonlidence," approach to the season -getIrish eoach Muffet MeGraw 
to the Garden. said at Wednesday's media "I told our guys. we're not day. "She is just a great picked in any polls," Irish lnader. She's one of the best coach Mike Brey said. "I think leaders we've ever had in our for this group, that's probably 
program. She's done so many a very good atmosphere for great things for us." them to be in." 
With praetiee starting on Brey spoke about the impor­Saturday, Duffy leads a team tance of taking small gradualin somewhat of a rebuilding steps this season and workingphase after losing leading hard in the process. With that scorer Jacqueline Batteast as the main daily objective, the and Teresa Borton to gradua­NCAA tournament is not on the 
tion. Sophomore Charel Allen team's mind. is on the mend from the torn 
Observer file photos 
Megan Duffy, left, and Chris Quinn dribble the ball on the perimeter last season. Both players will see MCGRAW/page 16 be expected to lead their teams this season, after losing key seniors to graduation. see BIG EAST/page 22 
HOCKEY 

Wallace a consistent option in the ice rink 
The junior right wing has not missed one game for Notre Dame 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
With the resignation of head coach Dave Poulin in April and the hiring of new coach Jeff Jackson in May, Notre Dame hockey has seen a lot of changes during the past year. 
But one thing has not changed. 
Senior right-winger Tim Wallace has played in every single game since his fresh­man year, a streak of 117 straight contests. In the process, he has become Notre Dame's ironman, setting the school record for consecutive games played. 
If he continues his streak until the end of this season, Wallace will have played in more than 150 consecutive games and could play as many as 163 in a row iI' the Irish make a run to the National Championship game. 

Wallace credits his longevity and toughness to those around him. 
"A lot of it is a credit to the people I've worked with, my coaches for making sure the team is in good shape to pre­vent injuries and the training stafT which does a great job," he said. "Plus, some of it is just luck." 
Wallace has not gone through the streak injury free. 
"''ve had a couple of nagging injuries, like for instance right now, my shoulder is bothering me, but it's going to be okay. The trainers have been help­ing a lot, and I'll be ready to play," he said. "Last year I had a groin injury, which also hurt in my lower abdomen, but again, the trainers were really good, and by the day of the game I was ready to go." 
Wallace came to Notre Dame 
see WALLACE/page 21 
fOOTBALL 

Quinn ready to battle USC 
Quarterback shows noticeable growth as season progresses 
By PAT LEONARD and 
MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Writers 

It's easy for an opposing quar­terback to disappear under the shadow of USC's Matt Leinart. 
The senior quarterback aver­ages 329 yards passing per game, has the nation's sixth-best passer rating (168. 6) and still can lay claim to the Heisman Trophy as the top player in 2004. 
But with a new coach, new season and a new offensive sys­tem, Irish quarterback Brady Quinn has built quite a resume of his own in 2005. 
Quinn ranks No. 11 in passer ellieiency (156.35) and No. 7 in total yards passing (1,621), while throwing fewer passes (190) than 16 other quarterbacks. 
Even the man possibly closest 
see QUINN/page 21 



SMC SOCCER  MlB  INTERHAll FOOTBAll  MEN'S SWIMMING  MlB PlAYOFFS  MlB PlAYOFFS  
Whitney  Fron  and  Once the Cardinals  Taking  2-1  records  Ted Brown leads the  Cardinals 5  White Sox 2  
Lauren Hinton led the Belles in a 2-1 win over Albion Wednesday.  finish the 2005 season, Busch Stadium will be torn down, a notion that upsets many St. Louis fans.  into Thursday, Keenan and Morrissey will look to earn a playoff berth in their games against O'Neill and Stanford,  Irish in the swimming pool, but also provides leadership outside of practice as well.  Astros 3 Reggie Sanders hit a two-run homer to lead the Cardinals over the Astros.  Angels 1 Joe Crede hit a game-winning double in the ninth inning following a controversial call.  
respectively.  
page 19  page 19  page 16  page 15  page 14  page 14  




