
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ACE workers feel Katrina's wrath 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
Thnrn arn many rno~nt Notre Damn graduates who have left tho Domn -and their homes ­to spend two years as voluntPnr tnadwrs in ruwdy Catholic schools as part of Notn~ Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education lACE) program. And now llu rrieann Katrina has made tlwir already challenging jobs twnn harder. 
'1\vnnty-fivt~ Notre Damn hrradu­atns an~ serving in armL<; afli~eted hy llurrirane Katrina, ACE dime­tor .John Staud said. Tlw afli~cted sitos arn Baton Houge and l'lagunmine, Louisiana; Mobile, Alabama; Biloxi, Mississippi and Pensacola, Florida. 
"The important thing is. all the teadwrs are safe and were evac­uated in time," Staud said. "In my 10 years involved in the pro­gram, this is the worst !storm I we've experienced. Last year in Pensaeola was bad, but this will probably surpass it." 
Staud said the next step would be damage assessment and mobilizing alumni eontaeL-; in the a rna. 
"There was massive llooding, wind damage," he said. "We don't have confirmation on anything." 
Emily Gorman. one of six stu­dent tnaehnrs living in Mobile, 
see ACE/page 4 

Wontan tries to get in step w-ith Irish Guard 
Sophomore auditions for position in all-male group on which only ·one woman has ever served 
Guardsmen automatieally regained their spots. only three of the auditioning students had the opportunity to make it. The band directors choose the new mnmbors with input tiwn tlw mturning Guard. 
"You start out learning to march," Murray said. "It's really not that dill'enmt from march­ing ba~d tryout~. They taught us how to do the b<L<;Ie moves. 
While the activities of' tryouts resembled those for marching band, the Guard tryouts drew a hrroup of partidpanL<> that was mueh taller and entirely male-exeept for Murray. 
The Irish Guard, whieh is run under the band and the Student Activities Olliee, gained its only female member when Molly Kinder made the eut during tl1e 2000 season. 
A-;sistant Band Director Sam Sanchez said them have been only four women, including Murray, who have ever auditionnd. 
Murray was aware of the traditional all­male nature of the Irish Guard and of the problems Kinder eneounternd when she made 
. the Guard after her seeond ynar oftryouL<>. In a February 2004 artide in Tho Observer, Kindor said the other membnrs of the Guard treated her "with a standard poliey of SO!,'TP­
see IRISH /page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Fresh111an runs Potter Web site 
By JARRETT LANTZ News Writer 
Arter living 10 years of his life in an average family, Harry Potter had a striking moment of self-diseovery: he was aetu­ally a wizard, one of' the most famous wiz­ards in the magical world. And mueh like the famous young boy, Notre Dame's 
own II a r r y 
l~-~~IL__j
Potter 
rr e s h m a n Spartz 
Emerson Spartz -has bonn thrown from several years of' home schooling into a eollegn campus where. to many Potter l'ans. he is already famous. 
Spartz. an IS-year-old Knott resident. runs lho Internet's definitive llarry Potter Web site, MugglnNot.eom, of'f'nring visitors up-to-date l'ottnr-rnlat­ed news on twnrything !'rom tho movies' castings to Potter sightings in tlw mndia. For visi­tors unversed in the world of lfogwarts, the site includes short spoiler-free overviews of tho series, as well as inl'orma­tion and debunknd rumors regarding tho yet-to-be­released final installnwnt in the series for Ilarry Potter l'anatics. 
Spartz started MugglnNot when he was only 12 years old. llalfway through seventh grade, Emerson det:idtld to giv11 self-taught homo schooling a try. 
"I figured I eould always go back to school if' I don't like it. 
sec SPARTZ/ page 4 


Fans flock to snatch nevv football Shirt 
T-slzirt flies off racks, despite criticism of new gold color 
By KATIE MCANANY 
NL"ws Wri~t·r 
With tlw approach or Notre I>an11~'s first roothall game Saturday against Pittsburgh conws tlw nxcitnnwnt -and dread -about tlw advnnt or Tho Shirt. tho official T-shirt worn to NotrP Damn football ganws throughout thn s1mson. 
Though tlw studnnt section has boon identifi11d as "tho sea or grnnn" in the past three seasons. thanks to the knlly green color nf The Shirt, this year's Tho Shirt has received mixed rnaetions becauso of its gold eolor. 
In Tlw Shirt's 16-yoar histo­ry. it has boon grenn. navy and gray -Tho Shirt of 2005 is the first evnr to sport Notre Damn's historic gold hun. 
Despit.o anxiety regarding the color change, Shirt sales are still high, aeeording Sally 
Wiatrowski,  a  representative  
!'rom  the  Notre  Dame  
Bookstoro.  

"Thosn who have bought The 
see SHIRT/page 6 

Donter Dollars used for laundry 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 

Freshman Ashlee. Wright arrived to Lewis Hall arrnod with a roll of quarters, preparnd to join the ranks of' college student<> aeross tho eountry who, some fi1r tho first time in their lives. now have responsibility for their laun­dry. llowover, rather than making a dent in her eoin eolleetion, A-;hlen simply swiped her student [[) and usod Domer Dollars to pay for her first laundry load. 
This year. Notre Dame Card Services offers an incentive for using Domer Dollars for laundry serviees. With Domer Dollars, 25 cents is dodueted from tho nor­mal cost of laundry -washing a 
see LAUNDRY/page 6 By KAREN LANGLEY 


News Writer 
While the Irish Guard will remain all male fi1r thn 2005 season, the legendary kilt-dad . group saw a rarn fi1male hopeful at tryouts this August. despite the faet that no women had auditioned for the Guard sinee Molly Kinder beeame its first female memb1-1r in 2000. 
As sophomore Tess Murray paeked for marching band tryouts 13 months ago, her mother mentioned a group that might be of interest to the 6-foot-2 freshman. The Irish Guard led the band into Notre Dame Stadium eaeh home gamn. and its members had to stand at least 6-foot-2 tall. Though Murray had never befilre seen the Guard. she began to considor trying out. 
While freshmen are not allowed to audition, Murray wa-; able to watch the group at band praetice ea1:h day from her vantage point in tho saxophone sodion. By the end of the sea­son. she 'was dotnrmined to try her ehanees at joining thPm in tho filii semester. 
Murray, along with 16 other Notre Damn student-;, arrivnd on eampus Aug. 1 S to begin a fimr-day tryout. Sinee the· sewm returning 
~~~----~--­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

We love our attitude proble111 
Just as recognizable -yet slightly less tangible -as the Golden Dome or Touchdown Jesus, the Notre Dame swagger is as much a part of the University as any its staple 
landmarks. Katie Perry Although out­siders label 
News
Notre Dame stu­
Production
dents with such 
Editor
positive attrib­

utes as intelli­gent, talented, athletic and reli­gious, they also believe Domers to be stereotypically cocky. 
And they're right. 

Maybe cocky isn't the most of flattering choice of terminology, but the idea is -for the most part -wholly accurate. 
There's a reason why we sport an excessive amount of apparel, adorn our cars with no less than three decals and integrate the words "ND," "Irish," and "Domer" into our screen names. That rea­son is simple. We go to an amazing school. We know it. and more notably, we show it. 
Notre Dame is a unique college in many regards, but perhaps its most extraordinary characteristic is the student body's unfettered adulation for their school. 
Generally speaking, students not only like it here -they love it. For many of them, attending the University represents the fulfill­ment of a lifelong dream. 
"I see you've joined the Notre Dame cult," a friend told me this summer as she antagonistically gestured at my sweat pants, T­shirt, cap and sandals -all of which boasted some form of University emblem. 

My immediate thought was a hasty remark I tactfully chose to keep to myself: "Clearly, you are just jealous." 
But no, that wasn't (entirely) it. She, like other critics of the Notre Dame swagger, incorrectly mistook my adoration for arrogance. 
Although we indeed are a confi­dent bunch -any Domer will readily and unabashedly attest to Notre Dame's greatness-we are also misunderstood. 
That was it. She simply didn't understand. After all, how could she? She doesn't walk past a mas­sive Golden Dome every day, nor does she become lost in a sea of green -or yellow for that matter ~ on football Saturdays. She can't experience the ridiculous­ness that is Notre Dame on St. Patrick's Day, nor can she buy a hot dog with a quarter she found lodged in the bottom of her book bag. 
For these and the million and one other endearing idiosyncrasies of this glorious institution, we have a chip on our shoulder -and there is no shame in that. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO WEAR TO FOOTBALL GAMES THIS YEAR? 






Kathy Stofan  Jack Carroll  Richard Grant  
junior Breen-Phillips  freshman Zahm  law student Keenan  
'Til wear The Shirt. It's not my favorite, but I'm going to wear it to  "''m not going to wear anything."  "Anything but the yellow 'Spirit' shirt."  
support the team. "  



Dan Leszkowicz  Meghan Quigley  Aaron Pereira  
sophomore Stanford  junior Breen-Phillips  junior Zahm  
"The Stanford Hall T-shirt  'Tm not going to wear a  "A toothbrush. "  

because this year's shirt is embarrassing." 


Skinny London house on sale for $933,000 
LONDON -This thin house requires a bankroll that's fairly fat. A home in London that measures just over 5 feet at its skinniest and 9 feet, 11 inches at its widest is up for sale for $933,868, estate agents said Tuesday. 
The narrow home is spread over five levels and used to be a hat shop before being converted into living quarters. 
Real e·state company Winkworths described the house as being "utterly amazing and almost cer­tainly unique." 
Its bathroom features a medium-sized tub that takes up the entire length of the tiny room. 
Guard accused of urinat­ing on computer 
OLYMPIA, Wash. -A state prison guard who was arrested after a drunken brawl at a nightclub may also be charged with uri­nating on a municipal jail computer, police said. 
Willie M. Shannon, 26, of Lacey, employed at Washington Corrections Center in Shelton, was later transferred from the city jail to the Thurston County Jail, where he was booked for investigation of first-degree malicious mis­chief and then was released after posting bail, according to police reports Monday. 
Shannon, Sean W. Dack, 25, of McCleary, who works with Shannon at the prison, and Randy M. Hinchcliffe, 38, of Olympia, who has previous felony convictions and knew Shannon from the prison, were arrested after fighting early Sunday morning at The Vault, police Lt. James Costa said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY a: 
IJ.I 
:::z::: 
!;;: 
IJ.I 
3: 
...... 
<C 

(,) 

0 
HIGH 77_ HIGH HIGH 80 HIGH 81
...I LOW 64 LOW LOW 59 LOW 57 


shirt." 
IN BRIEF 

The first of six lectures on business ethics this fall at Notre Dame will take place today at 7 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. It is entitled "Business Schools are Partially to Blame for the Corporate Ethics Scandals: Multiple Viewpoints" and will feature several Notre Dame faculty members. 
The Office of International Studies is joining forces with the International Student Services and Activities Office to launch the first annual Ten Thousand Villages Festival Sale to sell handicrafts from around the world on campus during International Education Week in November. Students interested in volunteering can attend the organizational meeting Thursday at 6 p.m. in the Coalition Lounge on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune. 
ND Cinema will host the criti­cally acclaimed documentary "Murderball," about quad rugby Team USA's bid in the 2004 Paralympics, in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center's Browning Cinema Friday and Saturday at 7 and 10 p.m. Tickets are $5 for faculty and staff and $3 for all students. 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer team will face off against Florida Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will play Texas at-5 p.m. on Saturday as part of the Shamrock Invitational in the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 78 HIGH 
80 
LOW 54 LOW 
56 
Atlanta 88 I 70 Boston 79 I 72 Chicago 79 I 63 Denver 76 I 48 Houston 101 I 75 Los Angeles 81 I 61 Minneapolis 79 I 53 New York 84 I 7 4 Philadelphia 86 I 73 Phoenix 109 I 83 Seattle 73 I 56 St. Louis 87 I 66 Tampa 89 I 79 Washington 89 I 69 
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students learn to invest in class 
majors, Heilly said. 
By JEN ROWLING 
The team of instructors 
News Writer 
heading the course includes 
Bernard J. llank, Professor 
A group of Notro Dame busi­Frank K. Heilly, Executive in nnss studonts aro set to Hesidence Jerry Langley ­rocnivo rna! lit'e financial former Vice President of expnrienco in investing in the Global System Finance of finance course Applied McDonald's Corp. -and Investment A s 'S i s t a n t Management Professor Scott (AIM), an 11-"We learn Malpass, the Vice ynar old pro­President for
everything we need 

gram for which Finance and
to know to make us

students are Chief Investment roquirnd to marketable to Wall Officer for Notre apply. Dame.
Street firms." 

AIM rnceived When students approximately first enter the $70,000 from a Craig Brede class, they are student fund at AIM student assigned to ana­
the inception of the curriculum. Each snmestor the University added another $50,000 to the portfolio. 
The portfolio's growth into a $3 million investmnnt was a direct resull of University donations and portfolio per­formance, professor Frank Heilly said. 
"ITho University] realized when they gavn us the money thoro was no promise how the students would do," Reilly said. 
For the last I 0 years, the portfolio's bnnehmark has boon the S&P 500. During this time pnriod, it has out-per­formed tho S&l' by an average of throe poreent each year. 
Studnnts must apply and be accnptnd into tho AIM course. Each semostor approximately 60 to 65 studnnts send in their resume, statement of intent and transcript for review. From tho pool ol' applicants, roughly 25 are admittod to the eourso. Ninety-live percent of tho studonts are l'inance lyze one of the 
25 stocks com­prising the portfolio passed down from the previous semester. At mid-semester the students decide whether to sell or buy more of the indi­vidual stocks, Heilly said. 
In the second half of the semester, each student choos­es and analyzes his or her individual stock selection. At the conclusion of the class, students must determine whether or not to invest in the researched stocks. The updat­ed portfolio is then passed on to the crop of AIM students. 
Recognizable investments in the portfolio include Aceenture, Avon Products, Dell, McDonald's, Morgan Stanley, and United Health Group. 
"Students are evaluated on the basis of their effort and input to the portfolio," Heilly said. "The performance of the portl'olio has nothing to do with the grade." 
Throughout the semester, students visit Chicago and 
New York. These trips offer the AIM participants exposure to a wide variety of money management firms, invest­ment banks, private equity companies, hedge funds and real-estate portfolios. 
Students who have taken the AIM class have gone on to work for such corporations and firms as Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, Boston Consulting, Fidelity Investments and Morning Star. 
Houghly 500 Notre Dame students have completed the AIM course. The former stu­dents feel a strong allegiance to the curriculum and provide strong connections for current AIM students entering the job market. 
"Employers who have these students feel they represent ND very well," Heilly said. 
Tim Lavelle, a finance major who completed the course last year, said that in all of his interviews, potential employ­ers questioned whether or not he had taken the AIM course. 
"It is the most applicable class I have taken and the fact that there are multiple profes­sors is very good because they have their own perspectives and strategies," Lavelle said. 
Current AIM student Craig Brede said the advantages of the course are well-deserved given the effort put in by stu­dents. 
"We learn everything we need to know to make us mar­ketable to Wall Street firms," Brede said. "Unfortunately, we pay for this by the enor­mous work load." 
. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 

International Study Programs 



INNSBRUCK and Berlin 
2006-2007 Acade1nic Year 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program Information Session 
Wednesday, August 31,2005 118 DeBartolo 7:00PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Questions?-Weber.15@nd.cdu Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 
Treadmills replaced at Rockne facility 
larity with students. 
By PETER NINNEMAN 
"The fitness equipment 
News Writer 
replacement plan has been very useful to us in making Students who frequent the plans for purchasing new fit­workout facilities in the ness equipment," Derengoski Hoekne Memorial building may said. "With literally hundreds notice some updated equip­of thousands of visits each year ment this semester. After to the recreation fitness rooms replacing its elliptical that HecSports oversees, it's machines and step-really important pers last year, the to us to keep the "Hoek" replaced "At least $2o,ooo equipment up to three of its four date and in good
is spent on new
treadmills with shape."
fitness equipment 
newer Preeor Many students machines this sum­each year, although were not happy mer. with the quality
the number varies 
Sally Derengoski, of the treadmills
slightly year to 
director of formerly in the HecServices and year." Hock, and the Fitnesss, said she gym's patrons could not give spe­warmly wel­
Sally Derengoski 
cific budget num­comed the new
director
bers, but she did equipment. say that the Hock RecServices and Matt Morris, a operates under a Fitness sophomore who 
"five-year fitness equipment replace­ment plan." 
Every year, fitness equipment is evaluated and decisions are then made as to what machines needs replacement, Derengoski said. 
"At least $20,000" is spent on new fitness equipment each year, although the number varies slightly year to year, Derengoski said. 
She also said that fitness equipment remains a "high priority" because of its popu-

uses the Hoek 

about three times a week, was satisfied with the improvements. 
"Some of the equipment is old and outdated, but it is still really good," Morris said. 
Jennifer Phillips, assistant director of Fitness and Fitnnss Faeilities, said that while there are no definite plans, there could possibly be new exercise bicycles in the near future. 
Hich Dube, a sophomore who uses facilities at the Hock almost every day, says he "can't complain" because tho equipment is so much bettor than what he had at his high school. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at pninnema@nd.edu 
Bronze Beauty Tanning Salon 106 N. Main St. Suite 201 Mishawaka, IN 46544 57 4-255-557 4 Downtown Mishawaka 2 Months Unlimited Starting at $40.00 20% Off Any Lotion 
Take Kaplan. Score higher. 
LSAT GMAT ·GRE MCAT DAr· 
Classes are starting soon! 
GMAT starts 9/06 LSAT starts 9/10 GRE starts 9/12 MCAT starts 9/24 
Enroll today & save your seat! 
Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back"" 


1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.com 
Test Prep and Admissions ~ 
•T~ oo:11*':!1t Wl;) rllgh:!•WrM tl~llllll'lll!~~ ,,, !.hl'llr rto:~'ft!Vf' <lll<llfll'f>. ~ ~f.'lloll<ltlot'\1l11Vl4 f<!i:wld.IQfl1> >l~. r!)r 0~11(.11•}1» g,JI)fU!li(ICc l}tlglOIIliY rii-QW*IfTl~tlll$,., Vl$1\ k~~\Uijit:~l'm/tu;,a. nlfo H!gnm SrRl~ GU<r!¥11~ rll'lt, <tp(J.l!<m ~~~ KIW!stll¥11.111;;1J:t. Ml<ttn ll:Ur;,;~.lffii\IIIIM 1'1111~11 lt'M'r lit\IU!d SfFlUe¥-'41'1d I:~IIIJI(!II 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
Spartz 
continued from page 1 
but it turned out to be the best decision I ever made," said Spartz. "I had way too much free time on my hands, so I started [the site] a few months after I began home schooling. I never expected it to get so big." 
And big it has grown. Emerson said that MuggleNet has become a profitable busi­ness venture. MuggleNet's extensive collection of content now draws more than 30 mil­lion visitors a month, making the Web site many times more popular than any competitors, even J.K. Howling's official site. 
The homegrown site has exploded into a cross-cultural phenomenon with international readers from over 150 coun­
tries logging in. 
The years of effort involved in creating the site didn't just attract the attention of fans, but the site also gained prestige in the eyes of the author, publisher and movie producers. 
Spartz was invited to the pre­mieres of the third Harry Potter movie, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, in both London and New York. Warner Brothers, the studio handling the films, even flew him out to the set of the fourth movie, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, where Spartz had the chance to interview the movie's actors. 
But none of that compares to Spartz's biggest accomplish­ment: MuggleNet's coverage of the sixth and most recent book in the series, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. Early one morning, Spartz received a phone call from the usually pri­vate author of the Harry Potter book series. 
"J.K. Howling called in May to invite me to her house and interview her on the day of the new book's release," said Spartz. "I had to stay up all night to read through the entire book in time for the interview." 
In the meantime, back in the U.S., MuggleNet co-sponsored the self-proclaimed world's largest book release party in history at a Mount Prospect, Ill. mall. Spartz said that 10 to 15 thousand Potter fans -dressed in costume of course -attend­ed the record-breaking event. 
As the site matured, it became more difficult for Spartz to do all of the work by himself. Spartz began to hire volunteers to help with every aspect of the Web site, from posting news to creating the 
I-ITML code. 

All in all, over 100 unpaid vol­unteers run it with Spartz's oversight. 
The venture has even become a family affair. 
"My 16-year-old brother does the graphics," said Spartz. "And my parents have started to help out a lot more now that I'm in college. Even my 6-year-old brother offers me moral sup­port and encouragement." 
But despite his love for the Harry Potter series -the fourth book is his favorite -Spartz is not planning on focus­ing on writing or journalism at Notre Dame. Instead, his work managing MuggleNet's staff members and making executive decisions has conyinced Spartz to major in business manage­ment. 
"It's a lot better to hire people who are smarter than you instead of trying to do every­thing yourself," he said. 
Spartz said that he is not planning on MuggleNet becom­ing his full-time job after col­lege, nor is he thinking about starting another Web site. Instead, he plans on building his wealth investing in renew­able energy sources. 
In the mean time, while Spartz continues his education, Notre Dame's own Harry Potter fans might be in luck. 
Although Emerson has not confirmed anything yet, he said he is considering starting a Harry Potter club on campus. 
"Maybe I'll start a [Harry Potter] club later on," said Spartz. "But right now I'm still trying to find my place at the University." 
Contact Jarrett Lantz at jlantz2@nd.edu 

ACE 
continued from page 1 
. has not had to evacuate, although 
the ACE house was without power 
Tuesday. 
"The downtown area is flooded 

and there's a lot of debris," she 
said. "One of the schools got a 
decent amount of damage and 
one is close to flooding." 
The student teachers, currently 

serving at five schools in the 
Mobile area, stocked up on essen­
tials like water, supplies, food and 
batteries Sunday after the storm's 
severity was predicted to increase. 
Gorman, whose school will 

reopen no earlier than Thursday, 
said she "had an idea" of the region's hurricane potential before embarking on the pro­gram. 
"When they first told me I was going to Mobile, they had pictures [of previous storm damage]," Gorman said. "But I didn't expect this." 
Notre Dame has already begun fundraising for the disaster, said Father Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministry. 
"We wrote to rectors and asked them to take up collections this weekend," Warner said. "Dillon already collected $500 last week and turned it in without even ask­ing." 
Half of the money collected this week from Masses in the Basilica and residence halls will go to Catholic Relief Services, and half will go to the damaged ACE schools and a school run by Holy Cross, Warner said . 
"I don't think anybody realized how terribly destructive this was going to. be," Warner said. "There's a lot of poor people there, and I think we can really help." 
Staud said the student teachers he had talked to seemed upbeat despite the disaster. 
"One said, 'It's only the middle of hurricane season,"' Staud said. ''I'm kind of in awe of the strength of the people down there." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Proprietors Warren & Linda 
?irs/ Onginaf71zza in 7oa)nl 
Since 1951 
Specializing in ltali.-m Entrees 
Tues.• Thurs.: 5:00PM~ 11;00 PM 
Fri. ·Sat.: 5:00 PM •1:00AM 537 North Stlouis • South Bend, IN 574-233-2464 

/irihy_ Wepumher 2
~ednesday. llu1ust 3t 

t1( DALE K -THE COMEpXJ!YPONOTI6T WASHINGTON HALL~ .!dill_.NJG.HIJ~KI.~.~.. AND DRIVE-IN MOVIE 
"MINI CARNIVAL" ON SOUTH QUAD 2-6PM 
SUB MOVIE: "61N CITY"
NORTH QUAD 8PM 8PM AND fOPM IN 101 DEBARTOLO 

•events will be located in Stepan Center if it rains! 


1/lursdug. Weptemher 1 

SUB TICKET LOTTERY FOR MICHIGAN GAME 6UB MOVIE: "51N CITY" 
12PM-5PM AT LEGENDS 

4:30PM AND 7:30PM IN 101 DEBARTOLO 
TASTE OF LAFORTUNE AND ACOUSTICAFE LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 10PM 
6UB MOVIE: "61N CITY" AT fOPM IN DEBARTOLO 101 

Assignments/To-Do: 
BUY •THE 6HIR1" GET FOOTBALL TIX BUY BOOK6 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Lebanon names murder suspects 
BEIHUT, Lebanon -The United Nations named four pro-Syrian generals and a for­mer legislator as suspects Tuesday in the February assassination of former Prime Minister Halik llariri -tho lirst major break in a rrimn that transformed Lebanon. 
U.N. investigators wnro interrogating the nwn at a hilltop hotel overlooking Beirut after searching tho generals' homes. The I.Pbarwsn govnrnnwnt, acting at the request of thn U.N.. dntairwd throe of the suspects; a fourth surrendernd for questioning and a fifth rnturrwd from Syria, promising to coop­
erate~. 
Tlw moves against such onc:e-powerful gnrwrals and politidans -who had readily nxer.utnd Syrian policy in Lebanon -would havn lwm1 unthinkable a few months ago wlwn tlw country and its government wore stillundnr Syrian eontrol. 
Iraqi TV reporter shot at rally 
BA(;I IDAD. Iraq -An Iraqi television jour­nalist who was killnd covering a dmnonstra­l.ion nast of Baghdad bnranw thn 67th journal­ist to din in tlw Iraq war, a nwdia advoeaey group said Tw~sday. 
llafnd Mahmoud ai-Bubai was shot by unidnntili(1d gunnwn while covering a pro­Saddam llussnin rally on Saturday. Rubai. a frnnlanr.n eontrihutor to thn Iraqi TV station AI lrakiya. died instantly, Heporters Without Borders said. 
"Halid bnramn a target after he did a great job during tlw eler.tions" in January, lraqiya's nditor-in-rhinl' Bassmn al-Fadly said. 
lluhai was tlw 67th journalist or· mndia assistant to hn killml in Iraq since the start of t.lw war in March 2!Hn. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Militant refuses to answer questions 
1·:1. PASO, T(~xas -An anti-Castro militant inilially refused to answnr questions from U.S. immigration attorrwys Tuesday at his deporta­tion !waring, hut latnr acknowledged using snvnral aliases and passports with different nanws. 
Luis Posada Carrilns, 77, is wantnd in sever­al c:ountrins for the dnadly 1976 bombing of a Cuban airlinnr. lin requested asylum in the Unitnd Statns artnr his May arrost in Miami on dmrgns that hn srwaknd into tho eountry ille­gally through Mnxieo. 
II is dnportation !waring also will consider wlwtlwr tlw failml 19hl Bay of Pigs invasion was an ad of U.S. tnrrorism. 
Wlwn lirst ask(1d about a series of aliases, induding "Bambi," Posada invoked his Firth ArnPndnwnt right. against self-inerimination. 

Fire bomber sentenced to 39 years 
OKI.AIIOMA CITY-;\ fndoraljudge on Tunsday snntenrnd a man to :~9 years in prison li11· lirehomhing a Jnwish temple and Ialor try­ing to send a racist later to tlw eongregation. Thn dnfnndant raisnd his hand in a still"-armod Nazi salute> as tlw judgn Infl. the court. 
Soan (;iJinspic>, 21, of Spokane, Wash., was found guilty in April of throe bombing-rnlatnd charges for hurling a Molotov eorktail at T(•mplc> B'Nai lsranl a year earlier. Tho aet, which rausnd minor damage to a briek wall and a glass door. was e.apturnd •HI a security vidnot.apn. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana SAT scores improve 
INI>IANAI'OI.IS -Indiana's most ret.:nnt high sdwol graduates took the SAT eollego Pntrane.n nxam in n~rord nurnbnrs, scoring ;, points higlwr than last yp,ar as tho state rontinund a 15-ynar improvement on the kny test, areording to figur·es released Tunsday. 
Tlw 43,544 Indiana seniors who took the SAT exam this year had an average score on tho verbal seetion of 504, up 3 points from last year. The average score on the math portion was 50H, up 2 points from 2004. 


New Orleans still engulfed by Katrina 
Death toll soars in swamped city, now an estimated 80 percent below-sea-level 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS Hescuers along the hurri­cane-ravaged Gulf Coast pushed aside the dead to re.ach the Jiving Tuesday in a race against time and ris­ing waters, while New Orleans sank deeper into crisis and Louisiana's gover­nor ordered storm refugees out of this drowning city. 
Two levees broke and sent water coursing into the streets of the Big Easy a full day after New Orleans appnared to have escaped widespread destruction from flurrieane Katrina. An estimated 80 percent of tho below-sea-level city was under water, up to 20 feet deep in placos, with miles ­and miles of homes swamped. 
"Th(~ situation is unten­itbln," Gov. Kathleen Blanco said. "It's just heartbreak­ing." 
One Mississippi county alone said its death toll was at least l 00, and olTicials are "very, very worried that this is going to go a lot high­or," said Joe Spraggins, civil defense director for !Iarrison County, home to Biloxi and Gulfport. 

Thirty of the victims in the county were from a beach­front apartment building Orleans gmw worse by the spend Wednesday in prayer. survival and of those who that collapsed under a 25-minute, prompting the "That would be the best didn't make it. foot wall of water as evacuation of hotels and thing to calm our spirits and "Oh my (;od, il was hell," Katrina slammed the Gulf hospitals and an audacious thank our Lord that we are said Kioka Williams, who Coast with 145-mph winds. plan to drop huge sandbags survivors," she said. had to hack through tho And Louisiana oflieials said from helicopters to dose up "Slowly, gradually, we will ceiling of tho boauty shop many were feared dead one of the breached levees. recover; we will survive; we whom she worknd as llood­there, too, making Katrina At the same time, looting will rebuild." waters roso in New Orlnans' one of the most punishing broke out in some neighbor­All day long, rescuers in low-lying Ninth Ward. "Wn storms to hit the United hoods, the sweltering city of boats and helicoptnrs pulled were screaming, holloring, States in decades. 480,000 had no drinkable out shollshocked and !lashing lights. It was c.om­
New Orleans Mayor Hay water, and tho electrieity bedraggled flood rnfugees pletn chaos." Nagin said hundreds, if not could be out for weeks. from rooftops and attics. Frank Mills was in a thousands, of people may With water rising per­The Coast Guard said it has boarding housn in tim sanw still be stuck on roots and in ilously inside the rescued 1,200 people by neighborhood wlwn watPr attics, and so rescue boats Superdome, Blanco said the boat and air, some placed startnd swirling up toward were bypassing the dead. tens of thousands of shivering and wet into heli­tho ceiling and he rind to 
"We're not even dealing refugees now huddled there copter baskets. They were llw roof. Two nldnrly resi­with dead bodies," Nagin and other shelters in New brought by the truckload dnnts nnvor madn it out, said. "They're just pushing Orleans would have to be into shelters, some in and a third was washnd them on tho side." ' evacuated. wheelehairs and some car­away trying to climb onto 
The flooding in New She asked residents to rying babies, with storins or the roof. 


Administration announces 427 meth arrests 
administrator Karen Tandy said. In grants to local authorities for drug­

Associated Press Minneapolis, drug agents and police fighting nll"orts, said Jon Dunn, assistant WASIIINGTON -When police visited seized a lab in a hotel that is across tho legislativn din~ctor for llw National an assisted-living facility near street from an elementary school, Association of Coun tic~s. Pittsburgh they found employees cook­Tandy said. "Wo'd lik<~ thmn to rnvnrsn that dnd­ing more than just the evnning meal­"It's homemade, cheap and readily sion," Dunn said, noting that Congmss authorities seized a lab used to make available," Tandy said, noting that al'tnr appnars likely to rnstorn al lnast $400 methamphetamine. starting in the West, meth has been million. Polieo also made two of the more found in every slate. Mnthamphntamino, which ·ean eonw than 400 arrests that weru part of the Authorities also took custody of 30 in t.hn form of a cryslal-likn powdor or lirst nationally coordinated operation children, induding two in Missouri who rocklike chunks, is an addidivn stimu­aimed at producnrs and sellers of the were living in a bug-infested home lant that can lw smoked, snorted. highly addictive drug. where meth was being produced, she injectn_d or ta.~nn.!~;ally. l.~s.. strne.~ Authorities announced Tuesday the said. nam~;~ uu;!ude Jco, crystal, spend results of Operation Wild/ire, a cooper­The arrests followed intense criticism and tum. ative emll't among police in more than from members of Congress and loeal Meth ean be madn using ingrndionts 200 cities and the Drug Enforcement law enforcement that the federal gov­in over-thn-countnr cold nwdieinos, Administration. More than 200 pounds ernment is not doing enough to combat prompting a dozen states to pass laws of the drug and 56 labs were seized. the use of methamphetamine. More forcing stores to remove medieinns mn­Eight counties in rural western North than half the 500 sheriffs in a recent taining ephedrine or psoudonphedrinn Carolina accounted for 70 of the 427 survey called meth their top problem, from shelves. arrests made nationwide. far surpassing cocaine and marijuana. At least 12 million people have trind Two elderly residents of the assisted­Local ofTicials applauded the results moth, according to tho National Survey living facility in Donora, Pa., had to be announced Tuesday, calling them good on Drug Use and llnalth. Authorities hospitalized for exposure to toxic first steps. But the administration has have dismantled morn than 50,000 chemicals from the meth Jab, DEA proposed eliminating $804 million in elandestine meth labs since 2001. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 31, 2005 


Laundry 
continued from page 1 
load of clothes costs $1.25 and drying clothes costs 7 5 cents, rather than $1.50 and $1, respec­tively. 
David Prentkowski, the director of Notre Dame Food Services, said the new lalilldry pricing incentives were introduced as a way to encourage students to use Domer Dollars instead of cash on cam­pus. 
Notre Dame Food Services started offering Domer Dollars six years ago for use by students at different food service locations. The number of places on campus that accept Domer Dollars has gradually risen over the years ­now they can be used at such locations as the bookstore, the copy shop and in vending machines. 
Notre Dame's student govern­ment was instrumental in encour­aging the installment of card readers for the laundries into all dorms, Prentkowski said. 
The government reasoned that since the lalilldry system is some­thing most students utilize, it 

Shirt 
continued from page 1 
Shirt are very positive about it," Wiatrowski said. "I haven't heard any negative feedback." 
Student ni~ponses to The Shirt have ranged from enthu­siasm to disgust, with most negative responses from stu­dents aimed at the new golden color. 
Cavanaugh freshman Teresa Nesbitt said she is not plan­ning on buying The Shirt this year. 
"The color is garish and the quote on the back is too cheesy for wo·rds," she said. 
Some students, however, think The Shirt appropriately represents the Notre Dame school spirit. 
"I really like the design on the back. The quote isn't great, but changing things up can never be bad," said Keenan freshman Joe Gorman. 
Although he has not bought a shirt yet, junior Jourdan Sorrell approved of The Shirt's new color. 
"Gold is a good color," he said. "It signifies victory, and 

would benefit the University to 
make it easier and more cost­
effective. The Card Services office 
hopes that the 50 cents total price 
decrease will encourage students 
to use their cards rather than 
change. 

The University also expressed 
interest in dealing primarily in 
electronic transfer, since it is less 
costly and time-consuming than 
processing coins, Prentkowski 
said. 

Prentkowski said that there is 
an attraction and usefulness in 
Domer Dollars. 
"It is a way for parents to give 
money to their children that they 
know they will use on campus," 
he said. 

Prentkowski said Domer Dollars 
are much more convenient to 
carry than cash, and said that 
some staff members have request­
ed the addition of Domer Dollars 
to their ID cards. 
Kara Whitaker, an assistant at 
the Card Services office, has 
noticed that students are taking 
advantage of the ability to use 
Domer Dollars to get a reduced 
lalilldry cost. 
"Before this year there was not ·a lot of incentive to use Domer Dollars, but now there is more 
it's better than red or pink." 
The President of The Shirt Project, Kathleen Fox, stands by the color change. Fox was responsible for coordinating design and production of The Shirt. 
"Those who say The Shirt is yellow are wrong," Fox said. "It's gold." 
Fox said that the change in color was to commemorate the new coach, Charlie Weis, and to celebrate a new era in foot­ball. 
"For the past three years, The Shirt has been green because of Tyrone Willingham. With our new coach, Charlie Weis, the new Shirt color should lead us into a great season," said Fox. "I hope the new Shirt inspires a great sea­son." 
The Shirt Project was started in 1990 to aid a graduate stu­dent who had been injured in a car accident. Since then, it has grown to become the largest student fundraiser on campus, raising over $2.5 mil­lions for student organizations and financial aid. 
Contact Katie McAnany at kmcanany@nd.edu 

Want to write for Nevvs? Calll-5323. 

• Featuring as guest  
speaker legendary NHl coach and  
Hockey Hall of Farner Scotty Bowman  
(former Detroit Red Wings head coach,  
winningest coach in NHl history -including Nine  
Stanley Cups.)  
• Meet the 2005-06 Fighting Irish Hockey team and  
new head coach Jeff Jackson.  
• 5-6pm open skate on the Joyce Center Ice Rink  
• 6-6:45pm autographs with the Fighting Irish  
team.  
• 7pm Dinner Sponsored by Famous  
Dave's and Speaking Program.  
Tickets only  
$10  

incentive for students to come planned to feed into the machines over here and put random and instead depositing them into amoWlts of change on their card," their Domer Dollars account, she said. Whitaker said. 
Students have also been bring­Students have expressed excite­ing rolls of quarters to the Card ment about the lower cost of laun­Services office that they had dry thanks to Domer Dollars. 
"It's all about saving as much money as possible," Wright said, adding that she gave all of her quarters to her roommate. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

NationalAnytime Minutes! 
Only$Q995amonth!
250Nationwide Long Distance Included Unlimited CALL ME"' Minutes Included No Roaming Charges 
BOONationwide Long Distance Included Unlimited CALL ME'M Minutes Included Unlimited Mobile-to-Mobile Minutes No Roaming Charges 

MISHAWAKA  SOUTH BEND  
514 W. McKinley  11 7 North Main  4615 Miami Road  
Corner McKinley  1 blk. south of Colfax  Miami & Ireland  
&Grape  574.288.9450  574.299.2860  
574.252.5820  4401 Western Ave. Inside Martin's 574.287.9628  ~PREMIER ('~ LOCATIONS"  

-(<US.Cellular. 
AUTHORIZED AGENT 


~~,Offerva!id with two·vear mnsun:ers-Jrvice awoome:1ts A./I :5ePtice ~r-cements subject ro r.arly tem~narion fee. Credit appmval mquired. Activatioo fee $3D. Unlim!red Cali Me :\-flnutes are anly available in f.lB loca! earling area and me not dedL'Ctad from IJilCkaged mrnLill<l, Unlio1itml lor,ai Mobile-w-Mobile rolil applies to coils )CU make or recei•• in your Mobile-to-Mobile Caiiing Area (5€€ bwcr.ure lm details!. Nig!Jts and Weekendo me avai:able in the loeal calling area for $5.95 ~ month fcr.lx:rh the Local and Nat1onal Plan. Un!im:ted N1ght &Weaker:{! Minutes valid W.·-F 7pm to 5.59arn and all cta:y Saturday ano Sunday. Ni~Jht &Weekend Mintrte& are BVFli;able in local ca!lmg arf'..a only. Local caliir:g area drffers from regional ca!Er:g area_ See amp ar..rJ rate sheet ior detaiis. Pmmntional rate plan avGl!able to new and ex;sting ::ustomers eligible for new promction. Prorr:etior:al phJne subject to change and irdKbs a$:-ii! ma!!·in rebate. Offer may expire ifyoiJ change your cai!ing p~an. Cus10n'!:11. is responsibje for all sales iBXUS Other tBstriGtions may af}fJiy. See store flx details. Limited lirn·3 offer. !<naming charges. fee;, surcharge.s and taxes mff; app~. ieduding aFadeeal a1111 Other Hegulamry fee charne oi $.96. @2005 U.S. Cellular fl!!OOration 




Castle«J'oiot 
APARTMENTS 

180ll Cleveland R9ad • South Bend, Indiana 46637 
Corner orClevetand and Ironwood Road 
Phone (574) 272-8110 • Ton Free (888) 642-6110 www.cppj.corn 
• Bt.Isiness Center 
* rree .Tanning Be<.t 
• 
Racquet Ball 

• 
/tJdoor/Outdoor Tennis & Basketball 

• 
Stvimming • Exercise Roon1 

• 
Whirlpool & Sauna 


• Shori:-Term Leasing Options 




THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,412.82 -50.23
}ones 
Up: Same: I ,424 I 7 2 

AMEX 
NASDAQ 
NYSE 
S&PSOO 
Down: Composite Volume: ·~ 1,917,141,850 
1.623.99 :>+234.32 2,129.76 -7.X9 7:397.06 -16.92 
I ,20X.41 -3.X7 
NIKK£1(Tokyo) 1:2",453.14 -.-11.300 FTSE IOO(London) 5,255.80 +27.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) -0.36 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.11 SUN MICROSYS INC (SUNW) +0.54 CAPSTONE TURBINE C (CPST) + 11.74 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.62 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.31 I0-YEAR NOTE -1.99 5-YEAR NOTE -2.82 3-MONTH BILL -0.23 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
-0.14 38.62 +0.03 27.18 +0.02 3.73 +0.54 5.14 -0.16 25.57 
-0.57 43.07 -0.83 40.90 -1.15 39.63 -0.08 34.77 
+2.61 69.81 -5.90 435.50 -1.08 81.75 
Excha Rates 

YEN 111.435( EURO 0.818• POUND 0.559: CANADIAN$ 1.191' 
IN BRIEF Stocks drop in hurricane aftermath 
NEW YOHK -Stocks skiddnd Ttwsday in tlw dnvastating aftermath or llurrieann Katrina. whil:h slamnwd t.hn (;uti' Coast, pounding hotnls and casinos, constricting oil rnlinnry capadty and h~aving insurnrs to eovnr lossns nstimatnd as high as $25 billion. 
Whill' major indt~xns gairwd Monday whnn tlw storm Wl'aknnl'd, Wall Stroot's spirits sank Tunsday al't('r tlw nation's top disaster rnlinl' ollkial raiiPd llw hurrkarw "catastrophic," oil pricl's rlimlwd and stocks in aiTectnd seetors ronlinund to drop. Thn Dow Jonos industrial avnragn was down morn t.han 100 points in latn al't('rnoon trading, but narrowed its lossns toward tlw dosn. 
"This is thn kind ol' rnaction everyone nxpndml ynstnrday," said John Caldwell, chin!' invnstmnnt stratngist l'or McDonald Financial Croup, part ol' Clnvnland-basnd KeyCorp. 
Crudn oil l'uturns hit rncord highs on !'ears t.hat. alrnady light rnlinnry capacity would be l'urthnr constrained as TV reports asserted widnsprnad relinnry shutdowns along the Gull' Coast and the Coast Guard said seven rigs worn adril't in tho Gull' of' Mexico. 
Dollar higher in Asian trade 
TOKYO -The dollar was higher against the yon in Asian trading narly Tunsday as a moderate nasing or oil prieos l'ailnd to raise prospeets !'or .Japan's economy, which depends heavily on importod oil. 
Tlw dollar bought 110.77 yen on the Tokyo fhr­nign nxehangn market at 11 a.m. Tuesday, up 
0.49 yon from late Monday and above the 110.61 yon it bought Ialor that day in New York. The nuro foil to $1.2214 !'rom $1.2:~26 late Monday. 
On Monday in Now York, the dollar had moved broadly highnr buoynd by an oasing in crude oil l'utLrr·t~s pricns and by invostor optimism ahead of a slato ol' U.S. omnomie data dun later this week. 
Tho British pound foil to $1.7949 late Monday in Now York !'rom $1.S045 on Friday. The dollar rosP to 1.2(,(,(, Swiss francs from 1.2570, and to 
1.1 1)77 <:anad ian dollars from 1.1974. 
A barn~l of light crude snttled at $67.20, up $1 .07 on tho Nnw York Mnrcantilo Exchange al'tor t~arlior surging past $70 a barrol, as invostors round relinf in reports that l'n~sidt>nt Bush may roloase oil !'rom tlw nation's J>Plroloum rnsorve. 



U.S. oil reserves beco111e political football 
Bush finds himself under mounting pressure from both parties to ease prices 
Associated Press 
WASil INGTON -The Whito llouso has signaled it is willing to tap tho nation's crude oil stockpile il' needed to help refiners whose supplies wore dis­rupted by llurrieane Kat­rina. But the action won't have niuch oiToct on soar­ing gasoline prit:os. As fuel costs km~p rising, President Bush could find himself' under increasing pressure from both parties to do more. 
As tho shutdown ol' oil platforms, rnf'innrios and pipolinns drovo energy prices to nnw highs, Bush doeided to end his summer vacation on his Texas ranch and return to Washington on Wednesday to monitor hurricann recovery efforts. 
Even bnf'oro tho powerful storm rippnd through the oil-rich Gulf' of Mexico. White llousn advisors were blaming Bush's slido in the polls at lnast in part on high gas priees. And law-­makers homo for their August break have been getting an earful of' com­plaints about pump prices. 
But tho political reality­l'or Bush and !'or tho law­makers -is that there are row roalistic options for t~asing prices in tho short term. The storm damage joins other factors that are relentlessly pushing up prices, inducting continu­ing war in Iraq, tensions with Venozunla and rising demand in China. 
"In the rwxt few months, there's no upside," said economist Mark Zandi of' Economy.com, an economic consulting servicn. "And this winter, we're going to !'eel it morn noticeably as people pay reeord gas prices and record home­heating bills." 
If repairs on oil produc-

An Allied Aviation Fueling Company of Houston refueler adds fuel to a Continental Airlines' Boeing 767 plane bound for Honolulu at George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston. 
tion sites take longer than expnetml. it eould genorato severn oil, gasoline and natural gas shortages, threatening the U.S. econo­my. 
The crisis draws atten­tion to the Strategic Petroleum Hoserve, tho nation's emergency supply or 700 million barrols of crude oil buried in salt cav­erns in Texas and Louis­iana. 
Bush is expected to authorize the release of just enough oil from the rnservo to help make up 
l'or production losses directly relatnd to tho pow­nrl'ul storm -with a stipu­lation that tho oil latnr be replacod by oil companies with an ev11n larger quan­tity. 
With gasoline prices nearing or surpassing $3 a gallon in many areas, some lawmakers want the presi­dent to go l'urther and open the stockpile's spigots to help drive down prieos. 
The administration con­tends that would dnf'mtt the purpose of' tho reserve, which is to protect the nation against supply dis­ruptions like th11 Arab oil nmbargons ol' tho I 1J70s. 
Son. Charlns Sehumor, 1>­N.Y., a loading advor.atn of aggrnssivnly tapping tlw rnsorvn, disagrees. 
"Wo havn mort~ oil in t.lw Stratngie l'etrolnum Hos­nrvn than wn'vo evm had. It's l'ull. And using about :~o or 40 million barrels l'or a fow months to get tho pricns down will not hurt us stratogically." Schumer said in an intnrviow, adding, "I think prnssurn will build" on Bush. 
More restaurants offering gluten-free menus 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -As a longtime chef' in four-star restaurants, Joseph Pace had seen appreciative customers before. But nothing prepared him f'or the day that a well-dressed man walked into his Greenwich Village restaurant, ordered a pizza and a beer, and broke into tears. 
That man, Pace recalls, had been diagnosed ten years earlier with celi­ac disease -an incurable affliction that makes the body unable to take anything containing gluten, a protein round in wheat, barley and rye. 
The pizza and beer that Pace serves in his restaurant Hisotteria, like many other items on his menu, are f'ornm­lated with substitutes f'or wheat and barley, making his placo a magnot f'or people who havn celiac diseasn. The customer told Pace that hn hadn't been ablo to enjoy a pizza and beer !'or a decade. 
"This is what tho restaurant busi­ness is," Pace said. "Making people happy." 
Not every customer may be as oll'u­sive as that one, but Paco says he gets tremendous amounts of feedback from customers, which also helps him try out new recipes. His latest experi­ment is a pasta made from white beans. Rice, the main ingrediont in risotto, is naturally gluten-free. 
Founded just live years ago, Pace's restaurant quickly became known among people with celiac disease, who make heavy use of the Internet and e-mail to share restaurant rec­ommendations. 
Several major restaurant chains are also reaehing out to the celiac com­munity. Outback Steakhouse, P.F. Chang's and other restaurant compa­nies offer monus or gluten-f'roo dish­es, and more arn joining them. 
Last month, Mitehell's Fish Markot, a 13-restaurant chain based in Columbus, Ohio, introduced gluten­f'ree menus, and six months ago Boston-based Legal Sea Foods did the same in its 31 restaurants. Hkhard Vellante, the exeeutivo chef for Legal Sea Foods, said his company adoptnd 
a. gluton-frnn monu after hearing requests from eustomnrs and also noticing that competing restaurants were doing it. 
Many people with coliac disease miss the textures that eome with imt­ing foods that eontain wheat, sueh as erusty bread, croutons in salads and crispy !'rind foods, which of'tnn con­tain broad erurn bs or flour, Vnllante said. 
So Legal Sea Foods worked on mak­ing substitutos -chick pna eroutons for salads; eorn mnal for frying and chiek pea crumbs for baking instead of' l'lour. Many items, they l'ound. unexpectedly eontairwd gluton and had to be nxeludnd !'rom the cnliae­safn menu, ineluding eoektail sauen, balsamic: vinegar and blue ehnnsn. Glutnn is of'tnn added to foods as a stabilizing agnnl. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 31, 2005 

Irish 
continued from pagel 
galion and disregard." 
Kinder's negative experiences on the Guard did not make a differ­ence in her decision, Murray said, especially since Kinder had said that she did not regret her choice to jf>in. But Murray remained nervous about interacting with the all-male group. 
"Once I got there, it was better than I expected," she said. "It's like any other group of guys. Was I treated like one of the guys? No, but it was awkward lor everyone. I wa<> trying to decide if I should act like a guy, but I shouldn't have ·to beeausn I'm a girl." 
While the 2000 Guard was not receptive to a female member, the current Guard was open to the idea, Sanchez said. 
"When I was outside observing them, it seemed that they were treating her the same as any other individual," he said. "With Molly there was a bit of bias." 
Sanchez said the 2005 Guard was trying its best to raise the group's image. 
If she were to make the Guard, Murray said that she would have asked only for tolerance. 
"I wouldn't be asked to be treat­ed better, and I wouldn't ask to be treated worse," she said. 
Brian Martin -captain of the Irish Guard -said that all prospective members were treated equally regardless of gender. 
"We don't make any favorites," he said. "I think in terms of try­outs, which i<> the only place I have any experience in this situation, I don't think that there is that much more difficulty for a guy or a girl. Marching is difficult to learn and hard on the body." 

There is no set formula for a Guardsman, he said. 
"It all just depends on who is the best marcher and who is the best fit for Irish Guard," he said. "It's not just about marching. When you are at attention you also have to look the part. That's the whole reason you have to be 6-foot-2". It's supposed to be an intimidating thing." 
The identity of the Guard played as big a part as gender relations in her tryout, Murray said. 
"I came from the marching band," she said. "I view the Irish Guard ao;; being a part of the band, and they don't. They're supposed to be our version of the flag corps, but they see themselves as a sepa­rate group that happens to lead the band." 
Though Murray would have lost her spot in marching band had she made the Guard, band leaders were excited that she auditioned. 
"We're hoping she will audition next year. She did very well, but there were only a lew spots," said Sanchez. 
Sanchez said tryouts are extremely competitive for anyone, though the degree of difficulty varies each year depending on the number of returning Guardsmen. 
"Often people don't make it their first year," he said. "None of the four band members who audi­tioned this year made it. There were a number of people who tried out for the third time. Molly Kinder didn't make it her first year, but her second year we took five people and she was number two." 
Murray said she plans on trying out again next year. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
Talk It Out..•.. 
Wall& It Out••..• 
Walt It Out.... 

·yo registeT online visit our '\~ebsite: V~~rvvw.taketen. org 
~kSpend an hon·r a '"Week ''~tl1 your team in an area s.chooi leaching violence prevention skills 
*Choose fton1 a. \1"31'iety of srhools~ age grvups, at:1d rneeti11g tunes 
14T:raif1in.g "~'ll'ill he pro·vidro 
*Fede:ral \:Vo:rk study poslr:ions 
'1.
a\'aua.·b·~1e 
Help pr.even>t y.ou-e:n violence in ~oUth Bendr Come mit our table at aemities night, Tuesday _.\.ugust 31H 

~*!~ ~~~ ": 
-:~ :t~et,eh·~:,;·n ~ ,.'e~ u 
5·7 ·~~ _6·3L_9i424 

''•.t ; ~> •·:l! """' A.":'! ··""'· • , 1• ~n -.+-.
I H, liiiil )~•"< '-1.1... 1 i"i! -..,;;; 
m·~ w r => ~... ci:"'n~ cfli u 
·--: . ·'"' Wi:i= 1'-1·'-'-'1 
574-.631,9432 

The Societyfor Fiu.~nan Resource lkfanagernent & The lkfanage.~nenr Club invites everyone to attend the 
Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory ~anagement 


Vir1ce Le>mbardi:-> Jr. 
Coachingfor TearnYVork 77 
Friday~ September 2 12:00-1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium ~endoza College of Business 
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


IFrida.y. ~eptember 2 
't.'t DALE K -THE COMEQ~YPONOTI6T WA6HINGTON HALL~) 
SUB MOVIE: "61N CITY" 8PM AND 10PM IN 101 DEBARTOLO 
<lll!H-~>Mcrmililu, ~eptem&er 13 
6UB MOVIE: "61N CITY" 4:30PM AND 7:30PM IN 101 DEBARTOLO 



SENIOR PORTRAITS! 
Sign up on the Internet NOW @ 
www. LaurenStudios.co1n 
to ensure your place in your 2006 Dome Yearbook! 
Who: Class of 2006 When: Pictures taken 
Aug. 29-Sept. 16 Where: LaFortune 108 Why: To be in the 2006 Dome 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Where's the fire? 
The /mkpnulmt, Daily Newspapc &rvi"K Noen Dame a,.J Saim .Mflry's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Alt:hoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF . 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@"nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

0BSERVERONLJN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
·POLICIES 

One night last spring walking home from a late night studying in Lafortune, I heard loud shouting com­ing from a couple across the quad. Their argument -the content of which I had no idea-gave me renewed hope in Notre Dame stu­dents. 
Every day, I hear plenty of jovial conversation and silly laughing ­and that is great. It shows that we enjoy each other's company and like to have fun. For me though, the good feelings, times and memories are not enough to have healthy, meaningful and transformational interactions. Some of the best relationships I have are lit­tered with arguments, tense conver­sations and confrontational moments. 
Quite simply, our lives are not meant to be all giggles and small talk. We do not change by taking what we get and being content. We do not help the people we care about by refusing to confront them when they need it. Lasting relationships are forged in the light of shared joys and the fire of shared pain and confrontation. I can remember one time my friend and roommate called me out on a 11ippant remark I made to her. I did not say it out of malice, but she told me she did not like it. Her standing up for herself to me -her friend -showed me her respect for herself and demand to be respected by me. Not only did I learn something about my friend, but also about myself-I say things that I do not really mean that may hurt people. That interaction was transformational and stayed with me. Without my friend's courage to confront me, I would never have learned that lesson. 


Why are we afraid to confront each other, to express our anger in public, or be anything but happy and quiet? I can only remember overhearing a few angry interactions in my entire stay at this school. Is Notre Dame an anger­free zone? A collegiate utopia? I doubt it. 
With all the campaigns and efforts to reform our university, heated cor­respondence in The Observer and other publications and disgruntled student mumblings behind closed doors, we have got issues for sure. Yet, none of these, translations of anger or stress turns into anything real. 
For example, I have been a Viewpoint columnist going on my third year and have received a fair share of negative comments by e-mail from readers. However, e-mail to me is an innocuous medium -lacking the power of tone, gestures and pas­sion in speech. Only 7 percent of con­versation is the words we use -so e­mail to me is not my idea of con­frontation. I have never had a conver­sation -face-to-face -with a disap­proving reader and have comfortably stayed in my worldview. As much as I believe in my own ideas, forged by my own experiences, I would have wel­comed an honest conversation from someone from a different perspective on an issue I raised. 
We should not be afraid of anger; indeed it has produced some impor­tant developments in our society. Anger over segregation and racism produced the civil rights movement, anger over denial of full citizenship to women produced movements to gain the right to vote and anger over migrant working conditions produced the Coalition of Immokalee Workers and the successful Taco Bell Boycott. 
Anger gives us energy and connects our experiences and gut feelings to the disdainful things we see around us. Wjthout it we are simply coasting in this life, biding our time till we leave this Earth in splendid isolation. 
I believe we can be surrounded by people for all our lives, but never con­nect with or impact another if we refuse to confront each other; at the same time, we may be completely alone and have a tremendous effect on others. Thomas Merton lived away from the world as we would dub it in a monastery -yet his targeted and powerful writings impact people's lives and choices even today. 
The foundation of confrontation ­whether to our friends, fellow Darners or the institutions that manage our lives-is compassion and love. When we care about a person or a commu­nity we want it to grow in a trajectory that is positive. When we love another person we are compelled to see the good and the bad -recognizing both in compliments and confrontation. When we love a place like Notre Dame, it should shame us to let fix­able flaws go on without an objection. We are not perfect and -news nash -neither is our university. 
To practice the love and respect demanded by our creed, we have got to show a little, maybe even a lot, of anger and confront people and issues when necessary. So keep speaking bravely to each other. You may not know it now, but that may have helped another change for the better. 
Kamaria B. Porter is a senior histo­ry major and welcomes comments on these columns. Her email is kporter@nd. edu, but only as a last resort for real conversation. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chie£ Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
TI)c Ob~~ervtr (USPS 59~ 2-4000) i~ published Monday through Fridar o::ct:pt during exam and vacadon ~riod.~. Asuhsccipti<m to. Tile ObSdr.>et i.s$100 fo~~)l'lt ;U;adcmic ye-.tr> $55 for one semeo;t~r. 
11tc Oh~rver is publish~ at! POSTMASTER 

fl24 South Diniug Hall Seud ~ddres& corn=cdons t(l: 
Notre D.unc, IN 4Cl'S)6..()779 TheOb,<;em:r 
Periodical post-ge paid .u Notre D:~mc w. Bo<779 

.md addi\iona\ mailing c»Uc~. UH Soot.h Dining Hall 
Norrt Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
Tiu:: Ob'>Crvtf is .1 member ofthe Al.sociated Pr~. A11 reproduction rights are rc-.crv~t. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
Kate Antonacci Matt Pulisi Katie Perry Kenn Brennan Maddie Hanna Kyle Cassily What will the Notre Dame 
"Experience should teach us to be most on
~ Submit aLetter I 
our guard to protect liberty when the 
Viewpoint Scene 
football team's regular 
government's purposes are beneficent ... 
Alyssa Brauweiler Rama Gottrnnukkala 
Men born to freedom are naturally alert 
season record be? 

to repel invasion oftheir liberty by 
Graphics Brian Doxtader 
evil-minded rulers." 


Ito tbeEditor at
Graham Ebetsch 

Louis D. Brandeis
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Iwww.ndsmcobserver.com 
U.S. Supreme Court justice
i:i~ . .. . ·. .
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Tl···IE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 page II 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Take a closer look 
II. snerns to 11111 that orw of' the many reasons for studying history is the pragmatic desire not to repoat tho blunders of the past. Unfortunately, Ian Honderos is advocating such a dis­astiJr in his Aug. 30 Op-1\d piece "Of patriots and tyrants.'' 
In his m1couragnment of "romoving" the democratically elected and popular Hugo Chavez, Bondnros supports sending weapons and bolstering the opposition. This is eerily similiar to situations in that past whnrn the United States supported leader·s such as Saddam Hussein in Iraq and Osama Bin Laden in Afghanistan. Of course, as everyone knows, the U.S. interven­tion into those areas has bnen wildly successful. Moreover, Honderos' opinion that a small rngimn of Marines would make a civil war swift and easy is laughalrle considering the fiascos of tho Vintnam War and present-day Iraq. 
Although this willingness to repeat historical tragedies is disturbing, I find that the fact that this dangnrous rubbish is eoming from the president emeritus of the College Hnpuhlieans oven worse. What happened to the Republicans who were against nation build­ing'? Why have Hepublicans forgotten that it is exactly the policies that Honderos advocates and his gnneral "Amoriea knows best" attitude that are what cause most of the world to dnspise the United States and are the sources of our many international problems? 
It is not becausn people hate our "freedom." Nor are people jealous of our "wealth" and "powor." Such arrogance and bravado is dangerous for America. To put it in terms that clas­sii~S majors such as Hondcros may understand, the United States sufl'crs from a bad ease of hubris and the vinws and attitudes ol' people likn Honderos and the College Hepublicans are hastnning America's tragic fall from grace. 
Peter Bui senior Dillon Hall Aug. 30 
U-WIRE 
A textbook case of gouging 
Tho rest of tho natil'n is complaining about gas prices these days, but paying close to three dollars a gallon at the pump is nothing compared to what most of us have been shelling out at the bookstore in the past week. The sticker shock is more than enough to rival any fill-up, as cash registers from Katie Neweomb to the Corner Crlstol climb to gasp-inducing triplo digil<>. Yet while the targel<> 
University of
of gasoline woes are easy 
Vir!Jinia
enough to name (from OPEC 
Cavalzer Daily
to the president, choose your eulprit), the staggBring cost of textbooks seems more like an unexplainable, if miserabln, phenomenon. 
But just in time for baek-to-sehool season, the Govnrnnwnt Accountability Otnee, at the request of Hop. David Wu, D-Orc., published a study on Tuesday about thn skyrocketing eosl<; of books that indieatns that tlmre may, in !~Let, bn some accounta­bility to bn had. The study found that the prices of textbooks havn nnarly triplnd in the past twenty ynars, inernasing at about twice the rate of infla­tion. 
Translatml into your lifo, that means the average student is spendin}{ nnarly $900 a year on text­hooks and supplies, or 26 pnmmt of his or her tuition and l(ms at public li1ur-ynar colleges like the Univ1~rsity. Anwrican farnilins spnnt mon1 than six billion dollars on t1~xtbooks in tlw 200~-2004 aca­dmnie ynar. What's driving the incrnasns? By and largn, says thn GAO, all thosn multimndia bdls and whistlns that l'.onw shrink-wrappnd with your books. 
Thn industry name for thn pradico is "bundling," and textbook publishers daim that they're "increasing invnstmenl<> in devoloping supplemenl<> in rnsponsn to demand from instructors." If you're thinking that you'd just as soon spnnd the nxtra nL<>h on your r1~nt instnad of a supplemental CD­HOM you'll bn using all of never this semester, you'rn not alone. The Public lnternst Hesearch c;roups of Califhrnia and Orngon eonductnd a study of thnir own in thn fall of 2003 and diseovernd that whiln half of collogn tnxtbooks now eome bundlnd, 65 percent of fiteulty rarnly or never use the bun­dlnd matnrials in their college coursns. 
While lnarning supplmnenL<> can have a useful placn in and ouL<>ide thn dassroorn, the nnnd is dnarly not driven by professors but rather by the pro lit rnotivns of the industry, leaving us students with a stack of very expensive coasters. 
The useless computer disks and glossy case study booklets aren't the only examples of the publishing industry's gouging ofstudent pocketbooks. According to professors interviewed for the study, textbook publishers issue a new edition of a single book approximately every three years -for all subjects, regardless of how the subject has changed during that time period. Obviously, material in text­books must keep pace with new diseoveries, theo­ries and ideas in the fields they address, but keep­ing the material up to date doesn't exeuse forcing students to spend more money on a new edition of a Latin book, for example. 
But what's good for students isn't good for the bottom line -as soon as one version of a textbook becomes available to the majority of students, the profit margin for the publishers starts to decrease, as new books on average cost 58 percent more than their used counterparts. 
The survey quotes a former publishing industry exocutive tor the Academic Press as acknowledging exactly that: "Publishers release new f~ditions of suecessful textbooks every few years -not to improve content, although that may be a byproduct -but to discourage the sales of used books by making them seem obsolBte." There's no blaming the professors in this ease, either; 76 percent of !ac­uity report that the new college textbooks editions they use arejustilied "never" to "halfthe time," and 40 permnt of f~tculty say the new editions arn "rarely" to "never" justified. 
The Textbook Market Fairness Act, passed by the Virginia General A<>sernbly this year, requires Virginia's public universities to post course booklists online so that studenl<> ~~an comparison shop fi1r tho best prices; the new policy is certainly a step in the right direction. 
But empowering students to hunt fi:Jr the ehnap­est of outrageously priced books is only a band-aid, and is no substitute f(Jr placing pressure where it is due. The price-gouging practices ofthe textbook publishing industry hurt students and hurt universi­ty communities, and the publishers need to answer to the studenl<> and families paying the bills. 
This column originally appeared in the Aug. 29 Cavalier Daily, the daily publication ofthe Unitwrsity ofVirginia. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
U-WIRE 


New law provokes toke 
What dons possession of marijuana and spnnding on the highway have in common? Nothing yet, but if tlw PXf~eutivo director of the Drug Policy Forum of Kansas, Laura Green, successfully persuades the City Commission at the upcoming Sept. 6 meeting, then getting caught with marijuana would he treated as a speeding ticket. That is if they Staff are caught at all. Editorial 
Penalties for having marijuana should remain at the State and F.(~deral Courts level and not brought down to the City Unilwrsity of Courts just because people feel like it's too Kansas harsh. l lniversity Daily 
Of course, the majority of the people in Kansan Lawrence, Kan., that took the Lawrence Journal-World's poll asking should mari­juana possession be treatnd as a traffic ticknt, the response was predietable. Five hundrnd eighteen of the 7:34 votes were in favor of this proposal that should just go up in smoke. 
As Green wrote in her letter to the City Commissioners, her reasoning was for the welfare of students. As it stands now, a University of Kansas student found in possession of marijuana will be arrested and the case would be held at Douglas CountY. Courthouse. Because the case would be in a Statn or Federal Courthouse, the student would be denied financial aid because ol' the drug conviction. 
If marijuana possession cases were held in City Court, then a drug possession would not appear on a student's record. 
The proposal also asks that marijuana enforcement would become a low priority. Making the punishment less severe for this offense would increase the number of incidents. If there is no incentive to stay drug-free, then the drug problem will rise. It's like making all speeding tickets 10 dollars or 50 dollars no matter how fast you were traveling over the speed limit. This would just produee more people speeding beeause the conse­quence isn't that great of a punishment. 
Green states in her letter to the City Commission, "The long­term benefit will be less young people with criminal records ... " This is the line she's used to win over Lawrence's mayor, Boog Highberger, and District Attorney Charles Branson, who han­dles the marijuana cases for Douglas County. 
In Aug. 24, 2005 edition of the Lawrence-Journal World, Highberger said, "It wouldn't bar a student from getting financial aid ... [it's] appropriate because I think that would be a pretty harsh penalty for getting caught with a little pot." What, then, does qualify as a "little pot," Mr. Mayor? The Lawrence-Journal World article says the criteria is "small amounts of marijuana for personal use, not cases involving drug dealers." 
So, it's a little pot, that's okay. But what about drug dealers who make money here in Lawrence by selling by the bowl­full? They aren't selling it by the kilo, aftnr all. 
And what about those students who need financial aid who didn't get caught with pot? This law makes it possible for a student without a drug conviction to get passed up for student loans by a student with a drug conviction. 
Green said the penalties would be similar to those already existing: "a combination of diversion, treatment, probation and a maximum fine of $2,500 or a year in jail."-the Lawrence-Journal World, Aug. 24, 2005. If the pnnalties are the same P.xeept for tho arrest and the drug felony, thnn this should be a moot point. 
If you smoke pot and you got caught. it's simpln-you go to jail. Lawrence is not a monopoly game; thern should bn no "get out of jail" cards here. 
Certainly the fines and jail-time remain thn sanw, but tho long lasting ef'feets of' being caught with an illegal substance become virtually nil for first-time offnndnrs, p1·ovidnd they gnt caught doing the offending at all. 
If' drug usnrs and dealer·s in othnr Kansas towns hear that they can get their first time offenses stricknn from the record, won't they llock to a town where they know that thorn won't be any long term consequences to their record? 
Combine that with marijuana enforcement becoming a "low priority," and it's almost a given that marijuana use in Lawrence will increase, and it seems like our law-makers are okay with that. 
Well, the editorial board is not. The proposed plan is a com­plete lapse in moral judgment. 
This column originally appeared in the Aug. 30 University Daily Kansan, the daily publication of the University of Kansas. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Murphy, McAdams take flight in 'Red Eye' 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistant Scene Editor 

"Red Eye" is a tight, effective little thriller that coasts on the charisma of its two leads, Cillian Murphy and Rachel McAdams. Director Wes Craven is no stranger to the genre, as his cred­its include "A Nightmare on Elm Street" and "Scream." By contrast, "Hed Eye" is far more subdued than either of those lilms, as it unravels its relatively straightforward plot in a brief, busy 85 minutes. 
Watching "Hed Eye" is like listening to a song stripped down to its melody. Audiences have come to expect labyrinth plots and roller-coaster plot­twists from thrillers, so the fact .that the film has neither is surprisingly refreshing. 
Once the central conceit of the film has been estab­
up sitting next to each other on their Fresh Air flight from Dallas to Miami. From the moment the plane leaves the ground, the plot kicks into gear and doesn:t let up for the next hour. Revealing too much of the plot gives away the film's precious few surprises, suffice to say that Ripner is not all thnt he seems and his proximity to Reisart is far more than coincidental. The scope of the film is not quite as vast as one might expect, but the small-scale actually benefits the film, as it is able to concentrate on the tense conflict between the two lead characters. Using a plane as setting is effective, as it essentially traps Reisart and keeps her essentially at the mercy of her prover­bial captor. 
What is most surprising is that nei­ther Rachel McAdams nor Cillian Murphy bring anything less than believability to outlandish plot. 
Murphy, who 

lished, it stays for also played The
Red Eye

the course for the Scarecrow in majority of the 
"Batman Begins" film .. This is ulti­this summer, is mately a wise deci­quite good as
t)lftlft
sion as the addi­Jackson. There
Director: Wes Craven 
tion of plot devices are strains of
Writers: Carl Ellsworth and Dan Foos 
would have bloat­Anthony Perkins'
Starring: Rachel McAdams, Cillian 
ed the running "Psycho" in his
Murphy and Brian Cox 
time and prevent­simultaneous ed "Bed Eye" from evocation of boy­being the doggedly economical lilm its ish charm and seething psychopathic director intended. tendencies, though he gives his charac­
Lisa Beisart (Hache! McAdams) and ter a welcome amount of depth. Jackson Hipner (Cillian Murphy) meet Murphy is a chameleon-like actor who in an airport, share a drink, then end morphs into a variety of roles. 

McAdams is the glue that holds the 
whol11 enterprise together, proving her 
range and effectiveness as an actress. 
As Lisa Reisart, her inherit goodness is 
what separates her from Murphy's 
Jackson and gives focus to the plot. It's 
hard to believe she played Hegina 
George, the eponymous Mean Girl, a · year prior. 
The cinema must be taken on its own 
terms, arid when reviewing "Bed Eye" 
in that context, it fulfills its function very nicely. Wes Craven has made bet­ter films, but he rarely gets actors as talented and charismatic as Murphy and McAdams and he takes full advan­tage of that strength. 
It's no masterpiece, but it's well­wound and enjoyable to watch, which is more than can be said of many films far more ambitious than "Red Eye." 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Unoriginal'Skeleton Key' unlocks no thrills 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 

At this point, a twist ending would con­stitute a thriller not actually involving a twist. In recent years, it has become all too common for movies to try to incorpo­rate some sort of twist in hopes of sal­vaging an otherwise forgettable movie. This trend has once again been dis­played in lain Softley's "The Skeleton Key," a movie that works ofT an original premise, yet manages to fall back into the usual trappings of the genre. 
"The Skeleton Key" starts off with Caroline (Kate Hudson) becoming disillu­sioned with her role as a hospice worker in a care center. In efforts to do more to help people, she 
quits her job at the 

The Skeleton Key
center and takes increasing aware­up a job as a pri­
ness of the mys­vate caretaker at a teries around her plantation. The is transferred onto hours are good, the screen well,Director: lain Softley 
and she is able to creating empathy
Writer: Ehren Kruger 
continue her nurs­with the viewer. 
Starring: Kate Hudson, Gena Rowlands, 
ing degree while John Hurt is 
John Hurt and Peter Sarsgaard 
she cares for the especially con­
While some might argue that there is lit­tle distinction between the two, "The Skeleton Key" demonstrates that such an assumption is not true. The film is all buildup and no payoff. At times, it tries to evoke a sense of horror that never comes. At others, it tries to leave the viewer in suspense. Once again, it fails. Watching the movie, one is kept waiting for a strong emotion of any sort, which, once again, never comes. 
It's not the acting that fails the movie. All of the actors perform decently within the confines of the script, with no notice­able sore spots. They are all are fairly established actors, and this shows, thanks to the fine performances. 
Kate Hudson, who also appeared In "Raising Helen" and "Almost Famous," 
does well within 
her own role. Her 
elderly couple at the plantation. 

The husband (John Hurt) has recently had a stroke, and requires assisted liv­ing. The wife (Gena Rowlands) is suspi­cious of Caroline and her northern habits, but allows her to take the job. While working there, Caroline begins to discover that all is not as it seems, and that a dark magic called Hoodoo may be involved. 
The original premise is nice, but can only carry the movie so far. The film seems confused about what it wishes to accomplish. At times it wants to be hor­ror, at others it wants to be a thriller. 
vincing in his role 

as Ben Devereaux, the stroke afflicted patient that Caroline is hired to tend. Being unable to move for much of the movie, he could only convey emotions through using his eyes, and subtle movements. These were all done commendably. 
Hurt certainly has earned his screen presence, having starred in over 120 movies during his career. 
The script isn't bad either. Plotholes are not too prevalent, and it actually feels like a decent story. The setting is moderately unsettling, as is the house the old married couple live in. The sub-ject matter is mysterious, which is a good recipe for horror. On paper, it was probably much scarier than it ultimately became on the screen. 

The director, Iian Softley, has only six movies in his repertoire. This could explain the lack of any real substance to the film's style. 
Points should be given for the chosen subject alone, as movies based around voodoo and hoodoo are rare. When asked, some might think back and remember "Predator 2," which had some elements of voodoo in it. Movies that are based solely around those pagan practices are next to non-existent. 
Then again, "The Skeleton Key," and movies like it, may be the very reason more are not created, since they fail to impress. 
The main shortcoming of the movie is that it failed to fulfill its promises. The previews hinted at a possibly scary, potentially thrilling movie. The end product failed to evoke any emotions that associated with either. It's not nec­essarily a bad movie, but neither is it a good one. There are much better movies out there worth seeing. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 


CENE
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Charming Carell shines in '40 Year-Old Virgin' 
By ELIZABETH LUDEMANN 
Scene Critic 

In the s u IIIIIW r 0 f .. star wars. " Brang.-lina. Tomeat, and remakes galorn. not many would have guessed that a film about a 40-ynar-old virgin with no bankable stars would rule the box oiTien for two straight weekends. Only six out. of this year's 29 box office number onns have been films with no hig-nanw stars, and the latest does not disappoint. 
Carried by Steve Carol!, former cor­respondent on "Tiw Daily Show," tlw film is a work of eomedie gnnius, blending insight and humor. 
Tlw film's un I i kely hero is Andy 
buddies, that he is a virgin. A 40-year­old virgin. After the initial amazement and a few rather hurtful jokes, the co­worknrs make Andy's deflowering their new mission. 
So Andy enters the dating world, experiencing failure after failure. Then. along comes Trish (Catherine Keener), a single mom who enables Andy to get past his shyness and fear. She. of coursn, is not aware that Andy is a virgin, and as their relationship progresses, his secret becomes more pressing. 
Tlw lilm works for a number of rea­sons, the most important of which is the troatment of tho main character. lnstoad of being presented as a loser, Andy Stitzer is shown to bf1 a nice and 

Stitzer (Candl), a decent guy who man who rides a is almost painful­
The 40 Year-Old Virgin
hikn to his job at ly polite. He is an nlectronics 
not a freak show store and collects or a social out­
••~. ac:tion figures in east. At one his spare time. point, he reveals
Director: Judd Apatow
Morn appropriate­his humanness
Writers: Judd Apatow and Steve Carell 
ly, lw is infatuated when he explains
Starring: Steve Carell, Catherine
with these "col­to his friends
Keener, Paul Rudd and Elizabeth Banks 
lectibles," to the how he hap­
point that they fill his entire apartment, aided by his irn prnssivo stash of video games. 
llis w1wknnd's most exciting moment: making egg salad. lie's generally an odd bird, and his co-workers are more than awarn of this. 
Orw night, after bning invited to a poker game, Andy accidentally reveals to the shock and horror of his new 
plmcd to remain a virgin for so long: after a while, he just stopped trying, and it became a non-issue. 
The chemistry between Carell and Keener is another big reason the film works so well. The plot necessitates that their relationship remain innocent for some time, and thn loads make this not only believable, but engaging as 
'Brothers Grimm' fails to deliver fairy tale ending 
By VINCE LABRIOLA 
Seem· Critic 

From Terry Gilliam, one of the most original minds in modern cinema, ~~onws "Tho Brothers (;rimm." a weird and macabre tale of two brothers who conjun1 up demons -and destroy them for a hefty foe. 
Will (Matt Damon) and Jacob (an utt11rly incomprnhensibln Lleath Lmlger). known throughout 19th-centu­ry Cormany as conquerors of all that is supernaturally evil, are actually noth­ing morn than glorified pranksters. Tlwy paradn from small village to small villagn nxploiting tlw townsfolk's fear or old fairy tales and bedtime stories. 
l·:vnntually thny are nxposed and ar-r11stnd by an irritabln French general (Jonathan Pryce), who wants them to disr.ov11r who is 
Gilliam tries his best to inject it with trademarks like spiraling camera shots, crazy and nonsensical charac­ters and considerable narrative bent towards the dark and sinister, but to littlo avail. 
The trouble begins, however, with the story itself. which is so tired and filled with cliches and illogical twists and turns that the audience has a hard time keeping track of it all. 
The film's big gimmick is that it alludes to famous fairy-tales. Among those referenced are "Jack and the Beanstalk," "llansel and Gretel" and "Little Hod Hood." This happens to be the inspiration for tho Grimm brothers' business. However, the screenplay is so sloppy and the visuals so outrageous that the film becomes impossible to play along with. 
Damon and Ledger talk in terrible 
faux-English 

behind tlw mystnri­accents that
The Brothers Grimm 
ous disappearanc11 make them of ton little girls in 1 impossible to
~iAi·\i) _;2 ) ) ) ·' 
a rural village. 1 , understand. What nnsuos is a Throughout the
"JJj;;i ~1 { rJ :./r,J ·""1 ; 
twistnd, disorient­course of the 
Director: Terry Gilliam 
ing, and altogether film, they meet· 
Writer: Ehren Kruger 
disappointing ran­a stock Keira
Starring: Matt Damon, Heath Ledger,
tasy-advnnture that Knightley look­
Jonathan Pryce and Monica Bellucci 
sadly bocomes a• alike (Lena 
dark blemish on its director's otherwise oxeellent resume. 
Much of the effect a film will have comes from expectations set before nnlf1ring the theater. "The Brothers Grimm" is directed by Gilliam, the his­torically thought-provoking director who has helmed such critically­ace 1aim cd projeels as "Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas," "12 Monkeys," and the criminally-underrated "Brazil." Compared to that list, "Grimm" is pndestrian at best. 
lfeadey) and a dangerous plague-ridden Queen (Monica Bellucci) who has taken the lit­tle girls captive in an effort to create an elixir for eternal life. 
Each and every character, save for the awkwardly stoic and serious Headey, has a nervous tic or crazy facial abnormality that makes the entire film feel like something out of a circus sideshow, and the camera never stops moving to the next creepy, gross thing Gilliam feels the need to throw well. 
"The 40 Year Old Virgin" is one of those rare films that is successful at being both a hilarious sex comedy and a sweet romance. It paradoxically alternates between vulgarity and inno­cence. The comedy is perfectly con­structed and delivered, offering the audience a plethora of one-liners and belly-laugh moments. But between the dirty jokes and sexual innuendos, the audience actually eomns to earn about these eharactnrs. 
The bottom linn is that this is a swPnt movie with a good heart. It is onn of the funniest, if not tho funniest, movies of the year. 
There's only onn downside: your face may hurt from all tho smiling. 
Contact Elizabeth Ludemann at eludeman@nd.edu 

onscreen. 

There are points where "The Brothers Grimm" is popcorn entertain­ment, but again, Gilliam ought to know better. By the umpteenth 'deus ex machina' moment, one starts to hope that this is all one of Johnny Depp's ether-induced dreams from "Fear and Loathing." 
Yet, the film can best be summed up by a particular moment in the film: A cat is (somehow) kieked into a giant whirling blade, at which point the poor feline is shredded into small bits, one of which lands on Pryce's face. lie stands, bemused, picks the little gob of red entrails off of his cheek, and pops it into his mouth. 
Bon appetit. 
Contact Vince Labriola at vlabriol@nd.edu 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
DPAC PREVIEW 
The real best seat in town 
DPAC's Browning Cinema continues trend of diverse film screenings 

tance of exposure to the less contem­
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
porary films that the PAC hosts. 
Assistant Scene Editor 
"The Browning is giving the Notre Dame and South Bend community the Many students may not realize that chance to see great international art­one of the best movie theaters in the house titles plus a wonderful supply of state can be found right on campus. classic films," he said. "There are 
The Debartolo Center for the probably some students who have Performing Arts houses the Browning never seen a foreign film. They should Cinema, a venue with richly diverse take this opportunity because half the screenings. An eclectic mix of films is cinema circulated worldwide is not played there each semester and Fall from the United States." 2005 will continue that trend. Whether The Browning will host three very showing an early silent domestic pic·­different films this weekend. Turkish ture or a first-run foreign film, The writer/director Fatih Akin's "Head-On" Browning combines all the best ele­(Thursday at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m.), will ments of arthouse and popular cinema be screened first. Akin's forceful char­in a single venue. acter study and psychological drama 
While the PAC is usually reserved for won the Golden .Bear at the 2004 Film, Television and Theatre class Berlin Film Festival. Later this week­screenings during the week, the venue end, the Browning will host opens to all students -as well as the "Murderball," (Friday at 7 p.m. and 10 general public -on weekends. p.m. and Saturday at 7 p.m. and 10 
"The PAC can provide screening p.m.), a documentary about a violent opportunities that rival most major sport played by quadriplegic athletes. cities," said Jon Vickers, the Browning "Murderball," like many films shown at Cinema Manager. "Even a city with a Performing Arts Center, is still in its good arthouse may not show as many first theatrical run.
A full house watches director Michael Moore's "Fahrenheit 9/11" on Sept. 2,
classic films as we're showing." Finally, the Browning will host Jean­

2004 in the Browning Cinema, located in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Browning screens a variety of Luc Godard's groundbreaking 1959 film styles from many different coun­film "Breathless," (Saturday at 3 p.m.) tries, giving students the opportunity to are David LaChapelle's "Rize." Paul the director of the DPAC. the latest entry in the PAC Classic 100. be exposed to types of cinema they Haggis' "Crash," Marilyn Agrelo's "Mad "It took us a number of months to "Breathless" was one of the first films would not normally find in domestic Hot Ballroom" and Gus Van Sant's compile the list," Vickers in The French New theaters. This includes cla'ssic foreign "Last Days." said. "We merged together 10 Wave, a movement
"The Browning is 
and arthouse cinema as well as more Additionally, the use of The Browning outside lists, then would pick that revolutionized
giving the Notre 
recent films. as a public theater allows for a student and choose substitutes to get contemporary cinema. Everything from Fritz Lang's silent discount. Each screening costs only $3 a good balance." Dame and South The Browning Cin­classic "Metropolis" (1927) for students, $4 for sen­Every film shown in the ema is one of the many
Bend community 
to Pedro Almodovar's iors, $5 for faculty and PAC Classic 100 is projected assets that can be
"The PAC can the chance to see
ultra-contemporary "Talk staff and $6 for the gen­in an authentic 35 or 70 mil­found on campus, but to Her" (2002) will be provide screening eral public. limeter print, which come great international its importance is not shown in a THX-certified opportunities that "The charges for a non­straight from the studio. limited to the Notre
art-house titles 
setting. theatrical venue, which is Using such a print ensures Dame community
. rival most major plus a wonderful
THX certification is only most universities, are typ­that each movie is screened alone. As one of the
cities.,,
given to theaters that ically much higher than in its original theatrical pres­supply ofclassic best movie theaters of meet the highest stan­for theatrical," Vickers entation. Among the films films.,, any kind in the state, it dards of picture and sound Jon Vickers said. "Everyone thinks being shown this semester as is a valuable resource quality and the Browning that studios give colleges representatives of the PAC for movie-lovers and

Browning manager 
Cinema is one of the only a break, but it's quite the Classic 100 are such classics Jon Vickers the general public screens in Indiana that opposite." as Stanley Kubrick's "2001: A Browning manager alike. has been given that distinction. The goal of the PAC is not to make Space Odyssey," Martin For more informa-
Since the Browning's screenings are money, but to give students the chance Scorsese's "Taxi Driver," and tion and a full list of open to the public, some studios will to attend cinema that might not nor­Orson Welles' "Citizen Kane" (crowned scheduled screenings, visit the DPAC deal directly with the University. This mally catch their attention. by the American Film Institute as the Web site at http://performingarts allows the venue to receive special Aside from the contemporary films number one movie of all time). .nd.edu prints of films that are still in their screened, the Browning plays host to The most important quality of The major theatrical runs. Among the first­the PAC Classic 100 Films, a list com­Browning may be the diversity of its Contact Brian Doxtader at run films being screened this semester piled by Jon Vickers and John Haynes, content. Vickers emphasizes the impor-bdoxtade@nd.edu 


Director Jean-Luc Godard's groundbreaking 1959 film "Breathless" will be Quadriplegics play full-contact rugby in modified wheelchairs in "Murderball," a screened this weekend as part of the ongoing PAC Classic 100 film series. compelling documentary being screened this weekend in the Browning Cinema. 
WeJnesday, August 31, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
You'll see giam photos from the llubble Space Telescope projected onto a 40' screen, while early music quinret ENSEMBLE CALl LEI perf<Jrms a haunting accompa­
niment and NPR's "'I alk of the Nation" host NEAL CONAN reads from universe­themed texts. In special recognition of the International Year of Physics, this show highlights the ineffable beauty of creation. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 

ChiS ox split doubleheader with host Rangers 
2004 season recovering from
Chicago tosses shut­
elbow ligament replacement surgery.
out in second game 
After the game, the Rangers Associated Press optioned Wilson to Double-A Frisco to create a roster spot for 
ARLINGTON, Texas Volquez, who was called up Brandon McCarthy pitched two­from the same club. Rangers hit ball over 7 2/3 innings for his manager Buck Showalter said first major league win, Jermaine Wilson would be back with the Dye had two homers and six Rangers next week when rosters RBis, and the Chicago White Sox are expanded to 40. beat the Texas Rangers 8-0 Teixeira's 33rd and 34th Tuesday night for a doublehead­homers gave him six multi­er split. homer games this season and 
McCarthy (1-1} was called up 10 in his career. He also from Triple-A Charlotte earlier matched his season high for in the day to make his sixth RBis. major league start. He held the Teixeira's two-run shot in the Rangers hitless over the first 4 fourth off Garland (16-8) gave 1/3 innings until Alfonso Texas the lead for good at 7-5. Soriano's double. Garland, who started the day 
In the first game, rookie left­second in the AL in wins, bander C.J. Wilson allowed one allowed eight runs -five run and two hits in five innings earned -and seven hits in 4 of relief for his first major 1/3 innings. He had his shortest league win, Mark Teixeira drove outing of the season and is 1-4 in six runs and hit a pair of two­in his last seven starts. run homers off 16-game winner Francisco Cordero got three Jon Garland, and the Rangers outs for his 29th save in 36 won 8-6. chances. 
Losses in the previous two games by the White Sox top Boston 7, Tampa Bay 6 starters -Garland and Mark BOSTON -Curt Schilling Buehrle -left Chicago with 11 started slowly in his return to defeats in a 16-game span. the Fenway mound, but the 
McCarthy struck out two and Boston Red Sox rallied from a walked one, allowing only two five-run deficit and beat the runners as far as second. Bobby Tampa Bay Devil Rays on for a 7-4 loss to Kansas City on Fans have jeered him and three-run homer in the Jenks pitched 1 1/3 innings to Tuesday night when Trot Nixon Thursday. His hair bleached made disparaging remarks since Minnesota Twins' victory over finish the White Sox's eighth singled in the winning run with blond and his socks just plain his return. He is the most the Kansas City Royals on shutout of the season. two outs in the ninth. old white, he was in trouble prominent major league player Tuesday night. 
Dye had the 10th multihomer Making his first start at from the start. punished for taking banned Morneau, who came in on a 2­game of his career and first of Fenway since April, Schilling Lugo doubled to lead off the drugs. for-21 slide, hit a 3-2 pitch from the season while matching his gave up five runs in the first two game and, after a sacrifice bunt, Palmeiro was Baltimore's des­Jimmy Gobble an estimated 423 career high for RBis. innings before settling down scored on Cantu's single before ignated hitter, a day after inter­feet, capping a five-run sixth 
Chicago, which snapped a with four scoreless innings. Schilling struck out Aubrey Huff im manager Sam Perlozzo sug­inning. Gobble had just come in three-game losing streak, built a Boston trailed 5-0 after two and Jonny Gomes to end the gested he has lost his job as the for starter Jose Lima (5-13}. 3-0 lead after two innings and 6-4 in the eighth before inning. Alex Gonzalez doubled regular first baseman. Mauer scored twice and had against Edison Volquez (0-1) in tying the score on Bill Mueller's with one out in the second, Toby Baltimore lost its fifth straight two RBis. He had a triple in the his first major league start. RBI groundout and John Hall singled and Lugo tripled to game and for the 1Oth time in first, a single in the third and a 
Carl Everett drove in the first Olerud's pinch-single. make it 3-0. 11 games. Rodrigo Lopez (13-8} double in the sixth, all off Lima. run with a first-inning sacrifice There was one out in the ninth gave up seven runs and 11 hits Needing a home run for the fly and Dye made it 3-0 in the when David Ortiz walked Toronto 7, Baltimore 2 in 4 2-3 innings. cycle, he grounded out in the second with a two-run homer. against Joe Borowski (1-1) and TORONTO -Earplugs didn't Shea Hillenbrand tripled dur­seventh and bounced into an 
Volquez's debut ended with took third on Manny Ramirez's help Rafael Palmeiro stop his ing a four-run second inning, inning-ending double play with two outs in the fifth after Aaron single off Danys Baez. Jason slump. and hit an RBI double in a the bases loaded in the ninth. Rowand's run-scoring single Varitek drew a walk after falling Palmeiro inserted earplugs three-run fifth. Carlos Silva (9-6) went 6 2/3 extended Chicago's lead to 4-0. behind in the count 0-2, then after he was loudly booed dur­David Bush (4-7) allowed two innings, allowing four runs and Dye had a run-scoring single off Johnny Damon hit a liner to ing his first at-bat in the runs and seven hits in seven eight hits and didn't walk a bat­John Wasdin in the fifth for a 5-right that was too hard for Ortiz Baltimore Orioles' loss to the innings, struck out seven and ter. The right-hander has 0 advantage. to score. Toronto Blue Jays on Tuesday walked none for the Blue Jays, pitched 180 1/3 innings and 
Scott Podsednik had three hits Nixon followed with a similar night. He went 0-for-4, leaving who lost eight of their previous allowed only six unintentional in the second game and Rowand shot, a little shallower, and it fell him with two hits in 26 at-bats, 10 games. Every Toronto started walks, tops in the majors. His went 5-for-8 with four RBis in in for a single. an .077 average, since a 10-day had at least one hit. ERA dropped to 3.37. the doubleheader. Mike Timlin (6-2) pitched one suspension for testing positive Baltimore's Brian Roberts led Lima, trying for his first two­
Volquez allowed five runs and inning of perfect relief, striking for steroids. off the first with a homer, the game winning streak of the sea­six hits in 4 213 innings. out one. Palmeiro struck out swinging fourth time he's done it this sea­son, went 5 1/3 innings and 
Dye added his 25th homer, a Julio Lugo, Carl Crawford and in the first inning, popped out son and the second time against gave up six runs and seven hits. three-run drive off Wasdin in Jorge Cantu had three hits weakly _to the pitcher in the Bush. He also homered off Bush The Royals had hit only four the seventh, to make it 8-0. apiece for the Devil Rays. fourth, lined out to first base in on April23. home runs in their last 14 
Wilson (1-6) had been winless Schilling made just three the sixth and took a called third games but got their first two in 12 major league appearances starts before missing 69 games strike in the eighth. His batting Minnesota 7, Kansas City 4 runs on solo shots. John Buck and in six minor league deci­with a right ankle injury, then average has dropped from .280 KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Joe led off the third with his eighth sions this season. He hadn't won made 21 relief appearances at the time of his suspension to Mauer singled, doubled and homer and Matt Stairs homered since 2003, missing the entire before returning to the rotation .266. tripled and Justin Morneau hit a with two outs in the fourth. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES needed for south side elementary school located near Erskine Golf Course on Miami St. $35 per soccer game. Call574-291-4200. 
CHILD CARE WANTED: 3-year-old twins in our home. 1-2 weekdays (4-8 hours each day). Must provide own transportation. Call Kara at 574-621-1540. 

FoR RENT 
GOOD HOUSES IN GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS: andersonNDrentals.com or (574)233-9947. 
Two 2-bdrm condos: 18041-B Bulla Rd. & 18027-A Bulla Rd. $975/mo. PropertyManagement Svcs 233-4590. 
Blue & Gold Homes. 2-8 bedroom, weekend rentals, furnished, alumni owned. You design lease. Call250-7653. 
Furnished 1 bedroom apt. 2 miles to NO. A/C, non-smoking, no pets, $450/mo. Free laundry, Flexible lease. 289-9365. 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
2001 alum looking to rent out Turtle Creek townhouse MSU weekend (9/16&17) $400 plus full maid cleanup on Sunday, negotiable. Call Rob (415) 845-5445 if interested. 
2 bedroom home within 1.5 miles of campus. Partially furnished with extra room, washer/dryer, and kitchen appliances. $750/month. Call574-250-8552. 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 

TICKETS 

WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$: www. victorytickets.com 
BUYING & SELLING NO FOOTBALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 
WANTED: 4-6 MSU GAs together, Dave 248-760-1767 
NEED 2 tickets for the 9/17 NO football game lor my nephews who have never been to campus. Please help! dreaminbig04@ yahoo.com 
WANTED 
Brand new full mattress & box. Still in plastic. $120. Can deliver. 574-876-4474. 
Queen pillowtop mattress set. New with warranty. $155. Can deliver. 574-231-4522. 
Time to enter the Weis Age ... Who's ready? 

Wednesday, August 31, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 

Warrick released by Cincinnati 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI-Tlw first timn hn sot foot in Ciru~innati, rncnivnr Pnt<H" Warrick f'nlt likn lw was in Tinsnltown. 
"''m looking at tho hills and {thinkingl llollywood," hn rnusnd that sunny April aft<w­noon in ;woo. 
liP Infl. town Tunsday during a downpour, til<' rnrnnant of llurrirann Katrina moving through. Tlw Bnngals rPlnasnd Warrirk al'tnr l'ivP failnd att.Prnpts to (~raft a fnnl-good nnding in a city that sornly nnmls onn. 
"11 's w Pi r d . lw caus n you don't nxpnc.t somnthing likn that to happnn to him," said rncnivnr T.J. lloushmandzadnh. who took Warrirk's job whnn hn was hurt last snason. "That's why you'w shoc.k11d, rnally. 
"I lw p n h n dons w n II. I · 111 quitP sun• lw will. All IH1 ean do is makn thPm fnnl likn they madP a rnistak<'." 
Thn Bnngals macl<~ sovnral mistakns with Warrick, right from tlw start. 
Tlwy took tho shil'ty play­makm· from national champion (:lorida Statn with tlw fourth ovnrall pick. nxpnc.ting him to dnvnlop into a gamn-broaking n~c.nivnr and kiek returner. Thny didn't quito know what to do with him. 
Thny tnanwd Warrick, col­lngn teammate Hon Dugans and quartnrbac.k Akili Smith­all rookies -behind a flimsy 

AP Peter Warrick, the fourth pick In the 2000 NFL draft was cut Tuesday by the Cincinnati Bengals. The former Fforida State star never develoP.ed into a top receiver during his five 
seasons with the Bengals. 
of'fonsivo linn in ;woo. and it was a failure. Warriek had a rough adjustment, learning what it's like to play for a los­ing tnam. 
lin tried too hard to make things happen, often doubling back and losing yards while vainly trying to turn a short roenption into a big play. Tho Bongals repeatedly ehanged quarterbaeks, and Warriek languished. · 
lie finally made progress in 2003, tho l'irst season under Marvin Lewis. lin eaught 79 passes for 819 yards with night touchdowns -all earner highs -and helped the Bengals stay in eontention l'or their first playoff berth sinee 1990. 
For the first time, hn looked like a lirst-round piek. 
"lt was like tho old P-Dub we used to wateh in college," receiver Kelley Washington said. "lie made unbelievable plays with tho ball in his hands." 
Warrick missed only one game late in the 2003 season after having arthroscopic sur­gery for torn knee eartilagn. Tho Bengals finished 8-8 and Warriek's knee was never the same. 
MLB 



Bellhorn decides to join Yankees 
Released by Red Sox, infielder will d_eepen the New York bench 
Associated Press 
SEATI'l.E -Mark Bellhorn switdwd sides Tunsday, signing with tho New York Yanknos a!ler winning thn World Snrins with thn Boston Hod Sox last season. 
The infielder was put on uneonditional release waivers by Boston on Friday aftnr he refused to aeeept a minor league assignment. lie had been designated for assignment on Aug. 19. 
Th~~ 31-year-old Bellhorn mot with thn pross bnfore Tuesday night's game with the Seattle Mariners wearing a Yankees eap and a Yankees T-shirt. 
"It was kind of weird to look in the mirror tho l'irst time I tried my hat on," Bellhorn said with a grin. 
lie was in the lineup at third base batting eighth in plaee of Alex Hodriguez, who was at designated hitter. Hodrigunz eame out of Monday night's game with the Mariners beeause of a tight right groin. 
The Yankees open a three­game series against Boston at Yankee Stadium on Sept. 9. 
''I'm looking forward to it," 

Bnllhorn said. "''ve still got a lot of friends on that tnam. But it's going to bn a difTnrnnt fenling." 
Bellhorn playod a pivotal role in Boston's conwback against tlw Yanknes in last year's Al.CS, hitting a threo-run homer in Gamn 6 and a solo shot in Canw 7 to help tlw Hed Sox beeomo the lirst major leagun tnam to overcome a :~-0 serins delkit. lin also honwred in (;anw I of Boston's World Series swoop of the St. Louis Cardinals. 
But this smtson, tlw strikeou1 pronn sneond baseman hit just .216 with I 01J strikeouts in 28:{ at-bats. lin wont on thn dis­abled list with a sprairwd lnrt thumb .July 18, a day artnr get­ting hurt whiln diving for Jason Giambi's grounder at Fenway Park, and missed the next 28 gamns. 
Bnllhorn said he purposely lnf't his· Bed Sox World Series ring at his homo in Scottsdaln, Ariz. lie said hn has no hard feelings about the Hnd Sox. 
"It's unfortunate for nw what happnned this year in Boston." he said. "But thm·e are no hard feelings. I didn't start ofT too great and I think I started prossing. Maybe I was putting too much prnssurn on myself." 
Bellhorn had other oilers, but said once the Yankees told him they wanted him, it was an easy decision to make to go to New York. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
SMC GOLF 

Freshmen provide spark 
Fontein, Molly Goldsmith, Katie By ANNA FRICANO Mcinerney and Alex Sei. 
Sports Wrirer 

On a team where talent and 
work ethic have been the two 
Amidst the pressures of major components of recent adjusting to dorm life and success, these women seem to homework, five Saint Mary's be fitting right in. freshmen have taken on the The personalities so far have responsibility of being part of meshed well with the team, and one of the most prominent ath­the girls have proven them­letic programs that the College selves to have the work ethic has to ofl'er -the Saint Mary's that Hamilton strives to procure golf tnam. from all of his golfers. 
The freshman class is walking Hecruiting doesn't generally into a program have a major that has seen impact on col­
'The overall
th rne conference leges offering titles and three quality of women's Division-III national champi­sports, and this
golfis getting 
onship appear­year was no
better."
ances in three exception. 
years. But the Belles And the new­Mark Hamilton still certainly comflrs may just seem to have
Belles head coach 
well be a erueial part or keeping the success going for a fourth year. 
Head coach Mark Hamilton has called the team's new golfers the best freshmen dass hn's seen. 
For the Belles. who lost three highly ell"ective players after last spring, that is a good thing. 
Snniors Nicole Bellino and Megan Mattia have experience working on their side, and have started to earn conference fflcognition on an individual basis. 
But simply in terms of num­bers, the Saint Mary's team is eounting on the freshman class to provide some much-needed depth. 
The five newcomers double the size of the squad, which is made up of four seniors and one sophomore. 
This year's freshmen are Meredith Fantom, Meaghan attracted an 

array of golfers to the team. Sei comes to the Belles from Albuquerque, New Mexico, and Fontein hails from Andover, Mass. 
The good fortune that Saint Mary's has seen in gaining so many good, young players is in part due to a change in the world of women's golf. 
"The overall quality of women's golf is getting better," Hamilton said. "It's a natural ·evolution that these players are better." 
And Hamilton works hard to promote the opportunity that attending a smaller school can provide to young athletes. 
"We talked about how athlet­ics is an important part of col­lege life, and I wanted them to give golf a shot," he said. 
Some prospective recruits may have actually been lost to other schools in the last year, but with the class that they gained, the Belles are not feel­ing the loss. 
Two of this year's freshmen will travel with Saint Mary's to their first competition, which takes place this weekend at Ferris State University. Sei and Mcinerney will join the Belles for what will be their first colle­giate competition, not including quali(ying matches. 
The question remains 
whether  inexperience  will  
become  a  problem for  this  
young team.  

It can only be expected that anyone in the position of Sei and Mcinerney would experience some jitters in their position. 
"It's all about learning what the nerves do to your body, and how to counteract it," Hamilton said. 
The freshmen will be at a slight disadvantage compared to the rest of the team this week­end, as no one on the Belles has ever played the course, and they will not have a practice round. 
And yes, Hamilton said. the freshmen will most likely be nervous. 
But so will the seniors -it just goes with the territory. What remains to be seen is whether this bright, young crowd can maintain their com­posure and fulfill the expecta­tions that lay ahoad of them. 
And for a toam consisting of no members of the junior class and only one sophomore, this year's freshman class will no doubt continue to play a crucial role in the roster in the years to come. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 


Belles edge Maroons in exhibition n1atch 
By RYAN KIEFER Sporrs Wrirer 

It may have only been a pre­season scrimmage, but the level of intensity on the court at the Angela Athletic Complex Tuesday made it feel like the postseason. 
When the dust settled, the Belles emerged vietorious over the University of Chicago Maroons in live games, 30-26, 28-30,29-31,30-21 and 15-12. 
The Bolles came out firing early, taking leads in each of the first three games. Chicago proved to be a resilient bunch, however, using a 10-3 run in the first game to cut a 19-11 deficit to 22-21 advantage. The Belles hung on to win game one, but were not as fortunate in game two, which fol­lowed a similar pattorn. 
Again, the Maroons put togeth­er a 10-3 run to tie the game at 21 after the Belles had taken an early lead. After losing game two and falling in a see-saw battle in game three, the Belles played their most complete game in the fourth, dominating with crisp passing and timely hitting. 
The final game saw Saint Mary's take an early lead only to see Chicago once again rally to tie the game at 12-12. The Belles won the final three points culmi­nating in junior Kristen Playko's kill to secure the clinching point. 
It was a very productive night for Saint Mary's as coach Julie Schroeder-Hick was able to get all her players into the game. She was addressed the team's lack of depth at the setter position by rotating Amanda David and Michelle Turley in to fill the hole. 
Schroeder-Biek was largely pleased with the resull<>. 
"I thought Amanda played well tonight," the coach said. "We all have confidence in her, now it's just a matter of building her con­fidence. I am proud of both Amanda and Michelle." 
The contest allowed the Belles to get some of their younger play­ers valuable experience in a tight contest before the regular season begins this weekend. The more experienced players had the opportunity to shake early season nerves. 
Schroeder-Hick was thrilled to get this much out of an exhibition contest. 
"It was fun to see some of the first-year players out there," Schroeder-Biek said. "We all had to respond to some jitters when they made runs at us. They arn a solid team and very comparable to us. Tonight proved that we ean finish Ia match]." 
Schroeder-Hick wanted to use this game as a gauge to evaluate her team's strengths and weak­nesses. At the conclusion of the contest, she was able to quickly identify areas that stood out. 
"I thought we passed well which· allowed the setters to run a good oll"ense," she said. "I think there is room for improvement in our blocking and communication at the net." 
The Belles will use the experi­ence gained from tonight's scrim­mage when they travel to subur­ban Chicago this weekend to open the season at the Elmhurst College Invitational. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 


This word is way over.·p.·.n··"ced.
... 
<intti:w:Skii ··%?h=%=:r.-==M~~~w ==M=~:t=·'=h=-~==~·,=;:g 

H ;mD+.'ii\,,Mtft\t; 
hMW)~ b$ ·#~1Mi:.W$'Jt:¥ :=::~h~: .,.ftHk ~~t@~tm. ·=&fftW1ut~.:::8 w.•.···'···.··... :::i:.~ •. .•.. •
.•.·~.=l".;~.~~ ~=:::::.=·.. • 
. . . ~':'!'! .:,.",:;;$:.-':':)!~ w )~'#.~li;;ai+i 

MNNt:J ·t~::~:r.t:ttltf 
}TtU tlt?tht&txi aU r~Xtn-ds by iii1lWiN:tltMli'IDJil by ~,It Wrmhlnat~im W&W#Th!i!Mt f@ hii$Ji~te ilMt wfi©fe 
H'Mr¥ !!N• )lli\Mtl!il}¢~'-ilt:Ht tile Chl'f~l. Tbe . w()fNtWffll!iii!Wtt f4l 








OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 Page 19 
Major League Baseball 
American League East tnam record pere . last 10 GB Boston 75-54 .581 6-4 
New York 74-56 .569 8-2 1.5 Toronto 65-65 .500 2-8 10.5 Baltimore 61-69 .469 1-9 14.5 Tampa Bay 55-77 .417 6-4 21.5 
American League Central 
l.l~am record ]Wr<: . last 10 GB 
Chicago 79-50 .612 5·5 
Cleveland 74-58 .561 8-2 6.5 
Minnesota 69-62 .527 5-5 11 
Detroit 62-67 .481 5·5 17 
Kansas City 42-87 .326 4-6 37 
American League West 
tPillll rneord pere . last 10 CB 
Oakland 74-56 .569 7-3 Los Angeles 73-57 .562 4-6 1 Texas 63-68 .481 6-4 11.5 Seattle 55-75 .423 3-7 19 
National League East 

tnam n•rord pnrc . last 10 GB 
Atlanta 74-57 .565 5-5 
Florida 70-62 .530 6-4 4.5 
Philadelphia 70-62 .530 5-5 4.5 
New York 69-62 .527 7-3 5 
Washington 68-63 .519 ~-6 6 
National League Central 
tnam record pNC. last 10 GB 
St. Louis 84-49 .632 ·6-4 Houston 69-62 .527 5-5 14 Milwaukee 64-68 .485 4-6 19.5 Chicago 63-69 .477 3-7 20.5 Cincinnati 62-69 .473 73 21 Pittsburgh 55-77 .417 2-8 28.5 
National League West 

tnarn record pPrC. last 10 GB 
San Diego 64-66 .492 5-5 Arizona 61-72 .459 4-6 4.5 Los Angeles . 60-72 .455 4-6 5 San Francisco 57-73 .438 4-6 7 Colorado 52-79 .397 7-3 12.5 
College Football AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 Southern Cal (60) 13-0 1,619 2 Texas (4) 11·1 1,500 3 Tennessee 10·3 ·1,376 4 Michigan 9-3 1,329 5 LSU 9-3 1,291 6 Ohio Slate 8-4 1,205 7 Oklahoma 12-1 1,204 8 Virginia Tech 10-3 1,184 9 Miami 9-3 1,142 10 Florida 7-5 1,080 11 Iowa 10-2 1,011 12 Louisville (1) 11-1 892 13 Georgia 10·2 869 14 Florida State 9-3 764 15 Purdue 7-5 711 16 Auburn 13-0 650 17 Texas A&M 7-5 576 18 Boise Stale 11-1 375 19 California 10-2 358 20 Arizona Slate 9·3 313 21 Texas Tech 8-4 256 22 Boston College 9-3 232 23 Pittsburgh 8-4 211 24 Fresno Slate 9-3 196 25 Virginia 8-4 153 
around the dial 
MLB 

White Sox at Rangers 2:05p.m., ESPN Cardinals at Marlins 7:05 p.m., ESPN 
WNBA Connecticut at Detroit 8 p.m., ESPN 2 
TENNIS 

U.S. Open Day 3 Coverage 11 a.m., 7 p.m. USA Network 
NFL 


Associated Press 

GHEEN BAY, Wis. ­Green Bay Packers quar­terback Brett Favre spent most of the last two days nervously waiting to hear from famjly members in his hometown of Kiln, Miss., in the heart of the Gulf Coast area devastated by llurrieane Katrina. 
The Packers said Favre finally spoke to his mother, Bonita, late Tuesday after­noon when she was able to reach him with tho help of a Houston television sta­tion in the area covering hurricane damage. 
According to the team, Favre said his mother reported spending Monday night in the family attic, along with his grandmoth­er, after the house filled up with water within a matter of 5-10 minutes, much like a tsunami. 
On Tuesday, the water receded enough that she was able to leave the fami­ly home and go to his brother Jeff's nearby house, which is slightly higher and away from the water. 
Bonita Favre told Brett that Hurricane Camille, which the family experi­enced in 1969, didn't com­pare to this one and the damage it has caused. 
She indicated the family 
IN BRIEF 

Bellhorn joins up with . Yankees 
SEATTLE -Mark Bellhorn switched sides Tuesday, signing with the New York Yankees after winning the World Series with the Boston Hed Sox last season. 
The infielder was put on uncondi­tional release waivers by Boston on Friday after he refused to accept a minor league assignment. lie had been designated for assignment on Aug. 19. 
The 31-year-old Bellhorn met with tho press before Tuesday night's game with the Seattle Mariners wearing a Yankoes cap and a Yankees T-shirt. 
"It was kind of weird to look in the mirror the first time I tried my hat on," Bellhorn said with a grin. 
lie was in the lineup at third base batting eighth in place of Alex Hodriguez, who was at designated hitter. Hodriguez came out of Monday night's game with the home is destroyed and probably will have to be bulldozed, but the good news is that everyone in tho family appears to be fine. 
Bonita, Jeff and another brother, Scott, decided against evacuating and instead gathered at Favre's childhood home in Hancock County, one of the areas hit hardest by the hurricane. 
Favre said his grand­mother, aunt and other family members also were there. 
Favre said earlier Tuesday that he spoke to his wife, Deanna, Monday night and again Tuesday. 
morning. lin said she and their two children, 16­year-old Brittany and 6­year-old Breleigh, are saf'n at Favre's home in Hattiesburg, 60 miles north of' Kiln, although their property had extnn­sive damage. 
Favre's mother was sevnn months pregnant with him when II urrieann Camille, which killnd 256 people in Louisiana and Mississippi in 19(>9, struck the aroa. 
"I've seen pictures," Favre said. 
Favre said the f'aet his family waited out Camille likely factored into their deeision. 

Mariners because of a tight right groin. Giants, Angels, Nats deal minor leaguers 
SAN FHANCISCO The Washington Nationals and the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim both made trades with the San Francisco Giants on Tuesday to strengthen their rosters for the stretch drive. 
The Nationals attempted to bolster their struggling offense, acquiring shortstop Deivi Cruz for minor league pitcher Ben Cox. 
Tho Angels picked up lel'thanded reliever Jason Christiansen for minor league pitchers Dusty Bergman and Honnie Hay. 
Cruz was batting .268 with five hmmws and 19 RBI in 81 games with San Francisco this year. 
Washington (67-63) has dropped eight of its last 12 games to fall 2 1/2 games behind Philadelphia (70-61) in the National League wild card race. The Nationals have failed to generate much oiTense during their skid, aver­aging just 3.2 runs per game over their last 12 contests. Buerhle accuses Rangers of cheating 
AHLINGTON, Texas-Chicago White Sox Jel't-hander Mark Buehrle called the Texas Hangers clwatnrs on Tuesday, daiming that the team sig­nals pitches to battnrs through a high-tech light system in cnntnr linld. 
Buehrle suggestnd Monday night that the Hangnrs knnw what hn was throwing during Chic:ago's 7-5 loss, and hn repeated tho aec:usation bef'orn Tuesday's douhlnhnad1~r. 
''I've heard rumors, so it's not just me saying this," Bunhrlo said. "l'vn hearcl it f'rom tons of' pnopln. It's not just me saying this.... Sonwthing's going ~!n bocauso thny hit so good at homo. 
The way thoy hit horn, you'd havn to raisn an nynbrow to figurn some­thing's going on. Look at the stats. I'm not just making this up." 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 31, 2005 

NCAA FooTBALL 


Trojan offense ready for big year 
Carroll expects an even more potent attack 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Here's a scary thought for the college football world: Southern California coach Pete Carroll believes the Trojans will be improved on offense. 
That's difficult to fathom, considering USC scored seven touchdowns and rolled up 525 yards in overpowering previ­ously unbeaten Oklahoma 55­19 in the Orange Bowl in January to secure its second straight national champi­onship. 
The Trojans, who open the season Saturday at Hawaii, have fielded one of the coun­try's top offenses each of the past three years, averaging :38.2 points in going 13-0 last season; 41.1 points in going 12-1 two years ago, and 35.8 points in going 11-2 in 2002. 
Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback Matt Leinart returns along with USC's five leading rushers and four top receivers. 
Little wonder Carroll feels the way he does. 
"This is the best group we've had based on the experience and the big production from the receivers and the running backs and, of course, the quar­terback," Carroll said Tuesday. "I think the continuity is very special. We have Matt at the helm, and the offensive line intact." 
Among the other returnees 
are Heisman finalist Reggie Bush and LenDale White, a potent 1-2 punch at tailback; wide receivers Steve Smith and Dwayne Jarrett; and tight end Dominique Byrd. 
"They might be the best offensive team I've seen physi­cally," Hawaii coach June Jones said on a con.ference call. 
Center Ryan Kalil said he has no doubt the USC offense will be improved. 
"Especially in the run game," Kalil said. "I think we're going to do a better job of coming out earlier. We're definitely a fin­ishing team. We're a lot more confident offense than last year, a lot more experienced offense." 
Kalil is one of four returning starters in the offensive line from last year. Right tackle Winston Justice was a first­stringer in 2002-03 before sit­ting out last season because of a student conduct violation. 
"I think I'm a lot better as a player," Justice said. "The whole offensive line has improved as a unit. I agree with the center -the offense might be better. I think the sky is the limit." 




e ATMs near ht where you em, right when 
them. 
0 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Share your space, but live on your own. 

.--------------------;---,-~---------------------------~---~~­
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 


ND students: open a r 
t 
t Checki 

c 
t 
•

and rece1v a fr ND t-shirt.* 


With features like free Online Banking, a free CheckCard 
and plenty of ATM locations, a National City Free Student 
Checking account simplifies your financial life. And now 
it gives you one more reason to put off doing the laundry. 
N D students, open a Free Student Checking account 
at one of the branches listed below and receive a free 
t-shirt. Hurry in. Limited-time offer. 
NationalCity® 
SOUTH BEND CENTHAL CU\Y BENDiX 
110 Nortir L!J tr.;yotif..J 
·1()4!, UorHji> Dr. 
t",'?-1 ·237···4733 574·237·4660 
'Gift offer applies only to new Free Student Checking accounts opened with money not on deposit at National City. Limit one gift household. while supplies last. CS-18725-UND-V1 MemtJer FDIC • ©200S, National City Corporation 

.. 

page 21 
7-9 p.m. in Notre Damn Stadium then take tlw day ofT Friday for travel to Pittsburgh. 
+ Offensive linn coach John Latina's son is a senior at the Universit)! of Mississippi. located in a state that has been hit hard by Hurricane Katrina. Latina was relieved after making sure his son was safe and expressed concern for those affected by the dis­
aster.  
"You always feel  bad for  
those affected by  a  tragedy  
like that," he said.  

Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Line 
continued from page 24 

"IThe new coaching staff has] only been here a certain amount of time," Latina said. They're really all equal in terms of experience for us." 
Notes: 

+ Notre Dame will hold two more days of practice this week. The Irish will work out tonight from 5-7 p.m. indoors at the Loftus Center, using noise to simulate conditions Saturday at Heinz Field. They will practice Thursday from 
Isban 
continued from page 24 

event, but he was not pleased with his performance due to the problems he encountered with the rainy weather. 
Either way, he was not anx­ious going into the event. 
"Not too nervous," Is ban said. "Playing last year was a good experience. 
"In general, I kind ol' drew a bad draw with the weather last year. I didn't play as well as I Iwould have I liked to. Things can kinda elick or they don't." 
Unfortunately, things did not click this year for the three Irish golfers, either. lsban, Deutsch and Peckels did not advance far. 
Regardless, it was a major 

test for the Irish golfers, and it provided a formidable warm­up for the college snason. 
"It's a thrill," lsban said. "[The event isl probably the best stage you ean eompete on. It keeps us sharp going into the season." 
For Deutseh and Peckels, it was their first lime in the event. Deutsch is a two-time All Big East snleetion and has finished in the top-5 in the previous two Minnesota State Amatnur Championships. 
The three amateur golfers will lead an Irish team this year in what should be a busy fall season. 
Notre Dame plays a strong schndule that opens up at the Gopher Invitational on Sept. 17. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
Twins 
continued from page 24 
son, finishing the season ranked No.5. 
The twins put together a 28-7 record in dual and open meets for 2004-05, placing them at 50-24 over their two-year career. The Intercollegiate Tennis Association awarded the sisters the prestigious All­American label for finishing in the top ten of the ITA final dou­bles rankings and gaining a berth in the NCAA doubles championship. 
"It was exciting," Christian said. "We had a great year and played really well before strug­gling at the end. When we found out, we called our parents, our coach from back home, our friends. It was shocking at first." 
The Thompsons were not born with a racket in hand. Neither parent played the game, so the twins didn't get their first experience until they attended a free clinic down the road from their home in Las Vegas. The coach of the clinic recognized the talent inside of the pair and began to work with them. 
They started playing competi­tively around the age of eight in local tournaments before mov­ing on to circuit and sectional tournaments in the Nevada region. Their mixed style domi­nated all opponents, and by the time they were 12, it was on to the national level. 
"We qualified for the Challenge Cup at 12, it was the nationals for our age," Christian said. "Every age group after that, under-14's, under-16's, 
under-18's we went to the nationa1s. We won seven nation­al doubles titles." 
Irish coach Jay Louderback watched their reputation and records grow. He observed all the national titles and was impressed with their natural ability. 
Madia 
continued from page 24 
"She had the potential, we knew that, but [success] was not going to be instantaneous," Connelly said. 
Madia had to grow into the col­lege running scene. Throughout four years of hard work and deter­mination, Madia now finds herself as a nationally recognized long distance talent. She credits her development to her teammates and coaches. 
"When I got here, I was sur­rounded by better people like Lauren [King] and Molly [Huddle]," Madia said. 'Teammates are so motivating. They just pulled me along to perform at a higher level. Coach Connelly has always believed in me, as well." 
Though Madia is quick to credit others for her achievements, dis­tance running requires internal motivation. Madia has proven capable of setting lofty goals for herself and then putting in the necessary time to make dreams become reality. She takes great pride in her work ethic and the results it produces. 
"Running is so rewarding, most people don't realize that," Madia said. "It's something where if you put in the time and dedication, results will come." 
It's that philosophy that has drawn Madia to running and has caught the attention of teammates who try to emulate her desire to win. 
"She has been a leader since she got here," Connelly said. "When 
"A big thing with them was their athletic ability -even at 16 it was amazing to see what good athletes they were," Louderback said. 
When the time came to move to the collegiate level, the sis­ters were more than ready -as was Louderback -to make sure they would don the blue and gold. He made a house visit and caught their interest. An older cousin that previously attended Notre Dame influ­enced their decision, along with a visit where they fell in love with campus and the team. 
The rest is history, but a lot more will be made in the next two years as the twins now have the experience needed to excel at the collegiate level, in addition to the natural connec­tion the two share when it comes to playing on the same court. 
"They have played together for so long, they know exactly what each other will do," Louderback said. 
That innate ability, which many doubles pairings do not possess, is clearly a step up on the competition, and Catrina and Christian have put in the effort to make sure that strength is utilized. 
"We have been practicing hard," Christian said. "We came back to school for the summer and did a lot of work with our trainer. So far, we have been trying to hit twice a day, and it's really working out." 
Although there have been brief spells where the twins have been forced to play with a different partner -Christian missed several matches in '04 with knee problems -they wish to continue their domi­nance together. 
"When Catrina hits the ball, I know what she is going to do, so I can position myself and be in the right spot for the ball," Christian said. 
+ TUTOR Mon & Wed 
or Tues & TI1urs, 3:30-4:30 0! 4:30-5:30pm 
+ \\brk Studv and 

Vohmtee.r positions :av:1.ihble 
+ Three different 

tutoring sites inthe communitt 
+ Tutor tr:aining the 
\vhen rou become a tutor, you become a mentor. week of Sept. 5-9 
Help a child learn to read and make a difference in + Trmsporution 
prm'ided FREE b~· their life. Impact the South Bend community! Tnmspo Bus ; 
Get involved... tutor at the RCLC! 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTE.R 
921 North Eddy Street South Bend. IN 46617 
Contact Kim Croy Celebrating Learning... Volunteer Coordinator at: 
One Relationship
Phone: 631-9427 

at a time!
Email: kim.croy.l@nd.edu 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
[seven-time all-American] Molly [Huddle] went down [with a foot injury)last year, Stephanie was the one to take the responsibility and step up and get it done." 
It was Madia who trained with then-freshman Sunni Olding last year and was critical in her devel­opment into a long distance force. Olding finished 32nd at the NCAAs last fall. Madia downplayed her leadership role, choosing instead to focus on the team. 
"[Leading]'s a way to give back to the team," Madia said. "But everyone has a responsibility to be a leader. There's no competition among teammates, just striving to make the team the best it can be." 
With Madia and a healthy Molly Huddle, expectations are for the team to at least match their per­formance from last year. Both Connelly and Madia cited the importance of staying healthy throughout the season so that they can be confident entering the NCAAs. 
"No one has higher expectations than the team itself," he said. 
Madia reflected the coach's words when she offered her opin­ion on the team's potential. 
"We want to be the best in the Big East and one of the best in the country," Madia said. "Everyone's looking good right now. It's infec­tious." 
Are these expectations realistic when the Irish lost two of their top seven runners to graduation? 
"No goal is out of reach," Madia said. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 
Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
Find out more about: The Sacraments of Initiation: 
• Baptism/ Eucharist & Confirmation: 
for unbaptized persons wanting to become a member of the Catholic Church. 
• Full Communion: 
for baptized persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
We all learn from one another. The RCIA gives you a chance to walk with someone as you explore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us on this adventure of faith. 

There's that question in the back of your mind•.. Is there some­thing more to my FAITH? Something more that I should look into? Maybe there's more to all of this Church stuff. RCIA ... 
For more info, contact: Tami Schmitz @ 631-3016 Schmitz.8@nd.edu 308 Coleman-Morse Center 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  31  "  and the  50 He was second  
1 Pillow toppers,  King of Siam"  56 197 4 Peace  
in hotels  32 Cafe alternative  Nobelist  
6 Paycheck deduction  33 Children's author Carle  58 Vex 59 Bee-related  
10 Place for a firing 14 "Save me 15 Rodin sculpture at the Met 16 Become tiresome  34 Baseball Hall-of-Farner George 35 Over there 36 What 20-and 50-Across did on July 20, 1969 40 Tree with a  so Twice tetra­61 Major paperback publisher 62 Patty Hearst's name in the S.L.A.  
17 Cool eat's acknowledg­men!  winged seed 41 Actress Kudrow and others  63 Many a stadium concession 64 Looked over  
18 Parks of Montgomery 19 Audio equipment brand 20 He was first  42 Prefix with trust 43 Early touring car 44 1946 Wimbledon champion Pauline  65 Organic compounds DOWN 1 Primary 2 "Woe !"  
23 Acquires 24 Swiss stream  45 Sign of affection 47 Joanne of "All  3 Classic soft drink brand  
25 Presidential the King's Men" inits. from 48 Spanish bear Missouri 49 Female singer 28 Many a car at the original transaction Woodstock ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  4 Offensive football position 5 State capital originally known as Pig's Eye 6 Works the land 7 Wedding exchange 8 Clickers 9 Imaginary undying flower 10 Olympian Michelle  28 Poster heading 29 Chalk remover 30 Figure on a window shade 31 Desilu co-founder 34 Fenway Park climber  38 Requiem Mass hymn 39 Almond confection 45 Heel 46 Fill with bubbles 49 Many a gourmet coffee 51 One can be  52 Plant with lance-shaped leaves 53 El 54 Lockup 55 Genetic strands 56 Weep 57 Excellent service, in  
11 Major New York­to-Tennessee  37 Pasta shape  shown it  27-Down  
route  


--------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~ 
Wt:dnesday, August 31, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 

ALRiuHT STUOE!'l15, ANb IF 'fOU l"li.KE TI-llS S'(Llf>.BUS­·rH IN" IHI';. \T:S o~"l cuS I MADIO. IS ILI..E~IV>lE-. 
11-\1~ ~~ M\NU\E.~ 'WAIT 'TILL /'..<-10, BUT >-\E.'(, 'fOU BU'f WI-\AT AI'\E ''fl'\ "/OUfi-C.OU!i!,5E. uONNA Uo? PA.'-"-~' 
NOT Ot-H:j IS Tl-\t::-RE: NO N~MEE~5 -ro COR\1., E!>f'Ol>ll> TQ PA14ES IN THE IP1.6U;:. Or C.c~TENTS, Ia.\.\"' 11'-\ £.ET¥1E E~ .A.R\\C..I..E& I1'>/E IN CLU t>€.1> S E..'I' 'ERf>.L \1<-V..E.LE:."PI.~'-~T AND 
C.OI'\FU S.l N t.x Ot>t>S A.NJ> E.t-\DS 10 -n\\;O'N 'fO'V-. OFF , IT'S ~Rt=: <::!EI'I.IUSI 
I 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
0\-\, A.Mt> REMB"'\Bfd~.. -ro ~\C..\(, UP '{OUR TE---.TS A\ 11-\E 
e.oo\:<::>"'ov.,e:. •.. 
f> S"'i C.r\ c.! \-\"'I~T 01'-..l>ERED 
-n-\E."" 'IE:."' . 
JUMBLE 

JJ~ID11R 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
USSOE 
1 
rJ 

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~·~ri 
FRUIPY 
1 
rJ 
www.jumble.com 

WHAT AN "ORGAN" CAN PRODUCE:,NAEVLE 
I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
1 

rJ cJ 
suggested by the above car-

Print~ here: 'l I I I I J"
A 

(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' I Jumbles: TYING FUDGE GIGOLO SMUDGE s Answer: The fingerprint expert had a clean desk 
because he was-GOOD AT "DUSTING" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 


For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a12 Bar topic credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
13 Big D.C. lobby Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 21 Whiskey grain 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ~~~ 22 Sound off, Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
perhaps 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ~~~;:-~ 26 Bamboo pieces Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ..:c...L:C-'-'-"-'"'-=' 27 See 57-Down solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _________________________ Address ______________________~-------------­City ______________________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS I>AY: Andy Roddick, 23; Rich Cronin, 30; Lisa Ling, 32; Cameron Diaz, 33 
Happy Birthday: You may be tempted to take on too much or spread yourself too thin this year. Look at the big picture and determine what is really important. You will he given the chance to prove yoursell: and you don't want to let anyone down, especially yourself. The time to. realize your potential and put your attributes to good use is this year. Your numbers arc 6, I 0, 19, 27, 33, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can't push others too hard. Patience will be required, and a better understanding of the way other people work will be necessary. Guard against frustration and crankiness. •• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a leadershir position if it will heir get you what you want. You can win today but only by taking action. Set your sights ..­high--you will be admired lor your ability to see matters through to the end.** •• GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Focus on whatever needs to be done to excel. Not everyone will be on your side, but don't let that bother you. Clear ur unfinished business and prepare to adart to any changes that come your way. ••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your emotions will be close to the surface, so keeping busy will help you avoid letting little personal problems escalate. Listen to someone with experience who can help you move forward. ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Finances may be an issue today. You may have to lind a way to cut your overhead to secure your financial future. Being overly generous will not buy friendship or help your current situation. ••• VIRGO (Aug, 23-Sept. 22): Try something new and you may surprise yourself by the outcome. You have many talents, but lately you've been having trouble honing any one skill. Focus on the thing you enjoy doing the most. •••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let the little things frustrate you today. Set reasonable goals and don't worry about accomplishing anything beyond. Stay on track and avoid any emotional turmoil. •• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel for business or pleasure will bring about a favorable revelation. You will have a better idea of what you want to pursue in the future and how to go about it. Unfamiliar surroundings will spark an idea. 
***** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): There's a chance that you have overlooked something you should have corrected with your personal papers. A financial matter will arise that may be stressful ifyou arc involved in a joint venture. Don't let anyone handle your financial affairs for you. ••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You have what it takes to get things done today, so don't let personal issues sidetrack you. Things may not be perfect regarding a personal relationship, but you can't let that stand in the way of your professional or financial success. • •• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your mind will be on love, romance and social activity today. You can make headway where personal relationships are concerned. Once you have things sorted out, you can buckle down and get back to business. 
PISCES (Feb, 19-March 20): You can make your move today and feel confident about the outcome. You will have a unique approach to everything you do and a very sensitive and compassionate way ofdealing with others. The combination will work to your benefit. ••••• 
Birthday Baby: You.are changeable, compassionate and caring. You have a strong sense ofjustice and fair play .. You arc a pillar of strength, courage and goodness. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialtt<l.comfor cmifidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
PORTS
Wednesday, August 31, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Line dance 
Rotating offensive linemen provide Irish with depth 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
There isn't much Bob Morton wouldn't do for Dan Stevenson. After three years together as teammates on the Notre Dame offensive line, they've formed quite a bond. 
"I told him the other day, 'You know, Dan, I think I may only like you about 50 percent of the time and 50 percent of that time is when we're on the football field together," said the Irish center. "But I also told him that if we're ever in a life or death situa­tion, I'd be there for him. And if he was hanging off a cliff, I'd do everything in my power to make sure he didn't fall." 
Having all five starters from last season returning forges relationships like the one between Morton and Stevenson. The unity also gives the Irish a solid base around which coach Charlie Weis hopes to create a potent offensive attack. 
Left tackle Ryan Harris believes the line is ready for 
-the task of making sure the offense runs smoothly begin­ning Saturday at Pittsburgh. "I think offensive linemen kind of want that burden to kind of get things going," Harris said. "We want that opportunity, and we'd love 
that responsibility." 
John Sullivan is the fourth man in a four-man group rotating between center and the two guard slots. Morton, Stevenson and Dan· Santucci are the other members of the foursome, and Sullivan is con­fident they will start the sea­son in a positive way. 
"I feel like we're going to have a really, really good unit," Sullivan said. "I just think there are a lot of smart players on the 0-line, a lot of older guys now. I think that makes a huge difference." 
Though the starting unit is one of the more experienced groups on the Irish squad, offensive line coach John Latina's focus is to make sure his players keep improving every day. 
"The biggest thing to me is I think we're better today than we were two days ago, three days ago," Latina said. "The bottom line is until you go out and play a game, you really don't know where you are in terms of how well you're playing. The big test is com­ing Saturday." 
He also stressed that though the lineman have been start­ing together for at least a full season, everyone from the freshmen to the seniors are all equal in the new offense. 
see LINE/page 21 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Thompson twins dominate 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

One delivers the ball with a tremendous forehand and dev­astating serve. The other sets the pace with consistent shot selection and a cool-under­pressure attitude. Separate they are strong, but when ·put together, they create one of the most formidable women's colle­giate doubles pairs in the nation. 
Catrina Thompson carries the killer instinct, while Christian Thompson forces her opponent to make the mistake. The two Irish women's tennis players used both styles of play to earn All-American honors last year as sophomores and garner a No. 1 doubles ranking mid-sea­
see TWINS/page 22 

ND WOMEN'S XC 

Madia will never say never 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 

No goal is ever out of reach. Such a mantra is often spoken, but rarely followed. 
Stephanie Madia has taken these words to heart and made them her motivation for running. 
Has the tac­tic worked? Results speak for them­selves. 
The senior led the Irish by 


Madia

fmishing 23rd at last season's NCAA champi­onship meet. Madia was the first runner to cross the line for a Notre Dame team that earned a fourth­place finish at the meet. She _also had a break-through track season where she finished fifth in the 5,000-meter run at the NCAA championships, earning her All­America honors. 
The Wexford, Penn. native entered Notre Dame with manv high school accolades, inducting ~ state cross country championship her senior season. Coach Tim Connelly recognized Madia's talent early in her career. 
see MADlA/page 22 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish trio competes at tough tournament 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Spons Editor 

Three members of the Notre Dame golf team had the opportunity to play on the biggest stage for college golf when they were invited to the U.S. Amateur Championship on Aug. 22 and 23 in Ardmore, Penn. at 
the Merion Golf Club. 

Eric Deutsch, Eddie Peckels and Cole Isban all represent­ed the Irish when they com­peted against the top ama­teur players in the country, something that was not only good for their confidence going into the season, but also for thn Notre Dame pro­gram as a whole. 
"It's beneficial for the pro­gram," lsban said before the event, referring to-the expo­sure that having three golfers in such an event gives to a university. "[Playing the 
U.S. Amateur[ is a step in the right direction." 
For a school that has been known for football, and recently, the women's soccer national champions, anything that brings attention to the golf' program is good. 
This was not the first year that lsban, who is a two-time All-Big East selection and a 2005 Ping All-Midwest region selection, had been invited to play in this tournament. 
lsban competed in the 2004 
see ISBAN/page 21 

NCAA FOOTBAll  NFL  SMC GOLF  SMC VOllEYBAll  NFL  MLB  
LLI  
(.) z 5 c:5 ca::  Head coach Pete Carroll expects the explosive USC offense to be even better this season.  Hurricane Katrina destroys Packer quarter­back Brett Farve's Mississippi family home.  Five Belle freshmen ready to help Saint Mary's earn fourth straight MIAA title.  Belles 3 Maroons 2 Saint Mary's edges Chicago 3-2 in exhibi­tionmatch.  Cincinnati Bengals release disappointing wide receiver Peter Warrick.  White Sox 8 Rangers 0 After dropping the first game, Chicago wins game two of a doubleheader with  
!;:  page 20  page 19  page 18  page 18  page 17  Texas.  page 16  







