
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 42 THURSDAY, OCTOBER27, 2005 STUDENT SENATE 
Baron wants better NO-city relations 
Sou tlz Bend, students both to blame for current tensions, student body president says 
1\y MADDIE IlANNA A'"" iat<' News Editor 
I.Pss than a Wl'l'k af'tl'r six Not.rn l>arnn st.udt-•nts discovnn•d tlwy arl' l'adn~ Pviction pror.nPdings l'rom TurtiP C r n P k AparlmPnts. See Also studPnt body 
"Resolution 
prPsidPnt I law 
returned for
Baron dis­t'USsPd ways to revision" I'<LSI' IPnsions 
page3
bPtWPPn stu­dnnts and tlw South Btmd cmnmunity in his snc­ond Statn ol' tlw StudPnl Union 
addrnss, dnlivnrnd Wndnnsday lo tlw Studnnt SnnatP. 
Baron. who rnenntly gavn a prnsnntation on community rPia­tions to thn Univnrsity's Board ol' Trusttws along with studtmt body vien pmsidPnl Lizzi Shappnll and rhinf Pxneutivn assistant Liz Kozlow, discussnd thn Pvictions as Pmblnmatic ol' largPr problems plaguing tlw rnlationship hntwnnn Notrn Damn and thn South Bnnd community. 
"This m1tin~ situation n•garding thn ordinanen has incn~asnd ten­sions. but not crPatnd tlwm," Baron said of South Btmd's 
see SENATE/page 6 


ND nurtures New Orleans ties 
Holy Cross School trying to overcome major flood damages 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Nt•ws Writer 
WhiiP tlw South BPIHI. Ind. t·ampus of tlw first U.S. sdwol Pstahlislwd by thn CongrPgation of lloly Cross spnnl tlw l'all inaugurating a nl'w IHPsidPnt and hosting l'oothall l'ans undPr a frPshly gi I d " d Do nu• . t h~' CongrPgation 's SPt:ond school has sul'fPrPd dPstruction and dPvastalion to its NPw Orlnans r a Ill pUS iII till' W a k P 0 f llurriranl' Katrina. 
Tlw lloly Cross School. which sPrvns s:w boys in gradns 5-12, is loratPd in tlw Ninth Ward, a distrirt of NPW OriPans that rPt'PiVPd SPVPI'P damagn from Katrina. a r.atngory 5 storm 
see CROSS/page I 0 


Notre Dame officials visit stricken city, pledge assistance 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
Univnrsity President Father John Jenkins led a delegation of University leadnrs to Nnw Orleans last wnnk, where thn group viewnd firsthand tho destruction of llurricann Katrina and mot with Archbishop Alfrnd llughns and other community lead­ers. 
These convPrsations with Hughes and other Diocesan leaders worn the main focus of thn day-long expe­dition, allowing for dia­logun about ways Notre Damn could use its resources to assist New 
see VISIT/page 8 

Nevv event supplants College's Pride Week 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
NewsWrirer 

lltw in part to tlu~ eontro­vnrsy surrounding last ynar's l'ridn WPnk T-shirt, Saint Mary's studnnt body prnsidnnt Ktdlyn Mitros announced this wonk that l'ridn Week has bonn rPplan~d with a new tra­dition eallnd llnritage Wnnk. sdwdulml for IHLrly .January. 
During tlw Colleg1~'s annual l'ridP Wonk last year, a small group of' studnnts staged a silnnt protest against the T­shirt sold as part of the wonk­long t~nlnbration. The shirt depicted a vintage Vermouth print ad f'naturing an elegant­ly dressed white woman. 
Protnst1~rs, who eallnd themsnlvns Women Objeetivnly Moving to Eradieatn Nngligenen of Knowlndgo, handnd out flyers saying the shirt was raeist, sexist and dassist and failed to accurately rnprnsent the nntirn student body. Thny also cireulatnd a petition rnquest­ing an apology from the Student Activities Board. the body responsibln for Pride Week. 
The protest resulted in sev­
see PRIDE/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Research 
•

exan1.1nes cheating 
By KArlE PERRY 
Assistant News hlitor 
HutgPrs UnivPrsity busirwss profnssor Don Mr.Calw illumi­natPd tho causal fartors of aeadnm ie dishonnsty -both institutional and pPrsoiHtl ­as lw sharPd his own nxtnn­sive n~snarch on t hn topir with NotrP Damn fanrlty 
members  at  the Mtntdoza  
Collngn  of  Businnss  
WPdnnsday.  

In a lnctu rP ti tlnd "Acadnmie lntngrity at NotrP DamP: What rolf' for fanJ!­ty'!" thn foundnr of tlw Cnntnr for Acadnmic lntPgrity !CAll shan~d infor­mation collnctnd l'rom thou­sands of survnys that rnvPal trends in aeadnmie dishon­~~sty on eolingo eam pusns. 
For 15 ynars, MeCahn has dnlvnd dnnp into an isstw that indiscriminately pnrme­ates colleges around the world. In conducting rnsearch at more than 150 univnrsities, Mr.Calw said hn has uneovnrnd sonw ol' thn fundamPntal factors that contribute to aeadnmic dis­honnsty among collt~ge stu­dents. 
MeCabn said hn has sur­vnynd morn than 100,000 stud1mts at more than 140 sr.hools, morn than 14,000 faculty mnmbnrs at morn than 90 schools and morn than 2,000 tPaehing assis­tants ITAl at 17 schools. Additionally. MeCahn has also ineorporatnd high school students in his study. 
"I became curious as to which habits studnnts pick up in high school and which habits thny pick up in col­lege," lw said. 
see HONOR/page 9 



Tickets draw fans to JACC 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
By 9:45 p.m. Wndrwsday night, an already thkk line of student basketball l'ans was still growing as it stretched from Gate 11 of' tho .Joyee Cnntnr along .Juniper Hoad. 
Some l'ans arrivnd as early as I I a.m. Wedrwsday t;l ensure thny received tieknt vo uclw rs at tlw l'i rs t tWO r "Late Night with tho Legion," a free evt~nt nwant to promote thn men's basketball team while nnsuring a morn nqui­table tieket distribution process. 
Students wnre given 
see TICKETS/page 10 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, October 27, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Me(a)g(h)ans divided 
In 1984, the name Megan was the 11th most popular name for new­born baby girls in the United States, according Social Security Administration records. In fact, the name continued to be a favorite Megan O'Neil with parents for many years, fin­
Saint Mary's 
ishing in the top 
Editor
15 through 1999. 
These statistics, coupled with the fact that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame have a long Irish Catholic tradition, help explain why everyone and her roommate arc named Megan. Or Meghan. Or Meaghan. Or Meaghann. 
Indeed, the name is inescapable. Growing up, I was always one of sev­eral Me(a)g(h)ans in my elementary school class. I was taught to sign my name Megan 0. so teachers could distinguish me from Meghan S. and Meagan K., a habit I have yet to com­pletely wean myself of. 
I am one of three Megans in my close group of friends at Saint Mary's. Introductions to new acquaintances always result in laughter and go something like this: 
"Megan? Nice to meet you. Kiki'? Hi Kiki. Megan? Hi. Nice to meet you. Alice? Hi Alice. Megan? Another Megan? Well. I guess that makes it easy on me." 
Sitting on a patio bench at Corby's one evening, a friend and I were approached by two guys hoping to use the Megan stat as a pickup line. 
"Let us guess yours names," they initiated. "Katie and Megan?" 
They were 50 percent correct. 
I can't tell you how many times I have walked across campus, heard my named called and turned around to respond only to find it was the girl in front or behind me who was being addressed. 
Not all Me(a)g(h)ans are alike, however. We tend to be very loyal to our particular version of the name. When a Me(a)g(h)an meets another Me(a)g(h)an the question is inevitably asked -"How do you spell it?" 
A match results in an immediate warming of the heart and an enthu­siastic "Yes! That's how I spell it!" A discrepancy evokes little more than a flat "Oh." · · 
Every Me(a)g(h)an believes her spelling of the name is the most authentic, the 'real' way to write it. l once had a Meaghan aggressively try to convince me that her version was more Irish than mine. 
Such devotion prompted one Notre Dame Megan to create her own face­book group, The Megans, which has an impressive membership of 119 women, including myself. A reae­tionary group, The mid-h-Meghans, also sprung up but has only six devo­tees. 
The truth is "Megan," which means "strong" or "great,'" is the simplest and purist form of the name. There is no need for superfluous vowels or consonants. You don't hear a heafty "h" or an extra "n" in there, do you? 
So let's get it right, OK? And don't even get me started on the spelling of O'Neil. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at Onei0907@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU WANT TO DO AFTER YOU GRADUATE? 

Steve Friend  Julie Campbell  Kyle Cyr  Marie Bugnitz  Emily Balthasar  Mike O'Connor  
junior Fisher  sophomore Walsh  sophomore Morrissey  freshman Welsh Family  freshman Pasquerilla East  sophomore Carroll  
"Be the closer for the New York Yankees. "  "Become a fashion designer for  "That's what I've been asking myselfmy  "/ want to work for ESPN as a sportscaster. "  "/ want to drive the Weinermobile."  "Sleep. "  


FUBU. '' whole life." 
Cabbie accused of tainting food with feces 
DALLAS -A taxi driver is on trial for allegedly tainting baked items at the grocery store by sprinkling dried feces on the food. Prosecutors have store sur­veillance videotapes of two alleged incidents in July. 
Behrouz Nahidmobarekeh, 49, is charged with two felony counts of tampering with consumer products. 
Customers had com­plained that the fresh-baked items smelled and tasted like manure. 
The defendant, who allegedly had a beef with the store over the way he'd been 
THURSDAY 


CHELSEA GULLING!The Observer 

Peter Steinfels, a New York Times columnist and expert on American Catholicism, speaks at Saint Mary's Wednesday. Steinfels revisted and elaborated on many of the themes in his best selling book, "A People Adrift: The Crisis of the Roman Catholic Church in America," including the sex abuse scandal and the rise of lay leadership. 
OFFBEAT 
n't move. He got out to investigate, and realized it was a snake. 
"I thought, 'Holy cripe!' It was big," he said. "I thought maybe it was dead, and then it started moving really slow." 
He grabbed its tail to pull it out of the way. "Then it started to unroll ... and it was huge," he said. 
He and his father took the snake to town in a card­board box and had it weighed at the grain eleva­tor -45 pounds. They measured it at 11.5 feet. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

treated, faces punishment ranging from probation, to two to 20 years in prison. 
Farmer finds ll.-foot python curled in corn field 
GERMANTOWN, Iowa­This year's harvest will be memorable for Fred Schuknecht, not so much for his crop of corn, but what he found in it -an 11-foot python. 
"lt was coiled up in a roll between two rows of corn. I thought it was a tire laying 
in  the  field,"  he  said  
Wednesday.  
Schuknecht,  49,  of  

Paullina, said he poked it with his combine and it did-
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

IN BRIEF 

Today is the final day of the blood drive, which takes place between 9 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Rec Center. 
Atlanta's 7 Stages theatre company brings Athol Fugard's '"Master Harold' ... and the Boys" to the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center today at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $15 for students. 
Rabbi Steven Leapman will lead a Jewish prayer today at 7 p.m. in 330 Coleman-Morse Center as part of the Prayer From Around the World Series. 
At 8 p.m. Friday, Notre Dame's Glee Club will present their annual Fall Concert at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Ceo ter. Tickets are $3 and can be purchased by call­ing the ticket office at (574) 631-2800. 
Archbishop J. Michael Miller, secretary of the Vatican's Congreagation for Catholic Education, will pres­ent the 2005 Terrence Keeley Watican Lecture at 8 p.m. Oct. 31 in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
The women's swimming and diving team will compete against UC Berkeley Friday at 5 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The film "The Untold Story of Emmet Louis Till," directed by Keith and Kevin Beauchamp, will be shown Friday at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. in Browning Cinema. 
To submit information to be included in this section of Tfw Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 
....1 
<
(.) 0 

HIGH 65 HIGH 56 HIGH 61
.... 
LOW 34 LOW 35 LOW 39 

52 36 


Thursday, Octobn 27, 2005 The Ohserver + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Resolution returned for revision 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Assoriatc News Editor 
SPJHtt.ors disruss<'d a rosolution urging thn rrnation of a studnnt­mntrollml organization to supple­nwnt the Univl'l'sity Standing Committnn on Gay and Lnsbian Studnnt Nnnds -unlike past Snnatn rnsolutions nxprnssing support filr oxisting groups unroc­ognizml by the University -but sent it back for revision at Wednesday's Student Senate meeting. 
University Affairs committee chair Matt Walsh and Gonder Hnlations committee chair Ali Wishon introducnd tho resolution, which begins by dnseribing tlw atmosphcrn its writers believe curn~ntly c~xisL'> at Notrn Dame. 
This atmosplwre includes inmJuality, discrimination, lack of w~rnptance and lark of support !'or f'rilmds and family of gay, lesbian, bisc~xLml. transgendor and ques­tioning IGLBTQJ individuals, the rnsolution rnads. 
A big rnason tlwsn problnms arpn't being resolved, Wishon said, is that thn University Standing Committnn -composed of administrators, f~u~ulty and stu­dents -is too busy to thoroughly invnstigatn possible solutions. 
"Bneause of the flXtn~me amount of' programming that lthe Univnrsity Standing Committee I has dmw in the past ... They have not had an opportunity to really take a look at what is nnednd at this University and make rncom­nwndations to [Vic:n President of 
Student 'Affairs I Fathor IMarkl 
Poorman," Wishon said, 
The resolution also mentions the support for events such as the roennt "Speak Out! Sexuality and Gender at Notrn Dame" filrum, as well as Catholic Social Teaching and Notre Dame's commitment "to be the nation's, if not the world's, premier Catholic institu­tion of higher learning." 
These fadors all demonstrate the need for increased dialogue of c;LBTQ issues at Notre Dame, Walsh and Wishon said. 
They believe a student commit­tee is the way to effectively increase this dialogue. 
"Students have the most at stake and the most influence on other students -they are the most in tune with other students," Wishon said. 
The resolution concludes that the Standing Committee should function primarily as an advisory body composml of upper adminis­tmtivo officials, while a new "sep­arate, student-controllod and operated organization" should be created to handle the Standing Committee's programming duties and increase educational initia­tives. 
But the rnsolution's vague word­ing prompted many senators to express concern about how the suggested goals would be imple­mented. 
Walsh reeogniznd that the reso­lution "might not be as dear as it could," but said details weren't the focus of the recommendations. 
"We want the administration to recognize there is a direct and important need on campus to dis­cuss these issues," Walsh said. "Wn want this to be an issue at Notre Damn whern the upper level of administration is talking about it. Hight now, it's not." 
Student body vice president Lizzi Shappell. who works as a student assistant at the Gender Helations Center (GHC), said th<~ Center recently created several task groups, one designod to foeus on GLBTQ students. 
She noted that any resolution passed through Senate will go to the Campus Life Council, then to Poorman and ultimately to the GHC, which will be "the vehicle to enact change." 
With the GHC already pursuing related initiatives, studnnt body president Dave Baron questioned the resolution's objectives. 
"I kind of have a problem mak­ing [the resolution( that ambigu­ous," he said. "If you want to say, 'Let's start the discussion,' then let's start the discussion." 
Wishon responded by explaining she felt the issue was "bigger than the GHC," saying that the Catholic Church's teaching and theological aspects also came into play. 
"Especially with the current media events surrounding the Vatican ... We're in the perfect place !'or these issues to be dis­cussed," she said. 
The resolution was ultimately snnt baek to the University Affairs, Gender Helations and Diversity Aflitirs committees lor revision. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 



Nursing deparbnent 
given $20,000 grant 
St. foe County Health Department seeks College's help to reduce infant mortality 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Seeking help in roseareh­ing the cause of' fetal and infant mortality, the St. Joe County Ilealth Department awarded the Saint Mary's College Nursing Department a $20,000 grant for a Fetal and Infant Mortality Hesearch Heview (FIMHl Case Abstract Project. 
Linda Zoeller, chair and assoeiatn professor of' nurs­ing at Saint Mary's, said the Case Abstract Project moni­tors babies from birth until death. 
Then, the Abstract looks at various factors such as prenatal care, if' the baby received neonatal intensive care and tho status and health of the mother in order to "determine the demise of the baby,'' Zoeller said. 
"Our ultimate goal is to shed light on this serious public health problem," Zoeller said. "Students will assist the county health department in determining the cause or fetal deaths in the last trimester of preg­nancy and the cause of infant deaths [within the first year of life I in 2005." 

St. Jon County reported between 50 and 60 infant and f'ntal deaths on average eaeh year. 
Zoeller chose five senior nursing students through an application and interview process in order to assem­bl<1 her team. The gi·oup of students will analyzn data from St. Jon eounty hospi­tals and nmergnney rooms. With thn leadership of Zoeller. thny will also roview aut1-1psy reports and othnr rnedieal information of both thn mother and the child. 
"[Seniors! arn experienced in OB and podiatries and aro ablo to understand how hospital rowrds are takon,'' Z<H1ller said. 
The mannnr in which data is collected for the projoet, which has already begun and will continuo until Fobruary of 2006, will groatly affect tho results, Zoeller .said. 
"By nxamining and organ­izing research data and looking at these eases as a whole, wn hope to spot some trends that allow us to dnvnlop data-based inter­ventions,'' Zoeller said. 
Contact Katie Kohler kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
BREAKING BREAD Welcoming the Stranger: Hot:~pitality in the Chrit:~tian Tradition Join fellow students and faculty for dinner and an evening of faith-based discussion Wednesday, November 2 at 6:00pm Notre Dame Stadium Press Box Featuring guest speaker Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. Vue Predidenf.(or L)tudent 4fi'a,·rd and At1t1ociate Prt?(edt10r (?f Theolo_qy If intet~ested, e-mail the Center for Ethics and Culture at ethics2@nd.edu. Please give us your name, local phone number and address. Spaces are li1nited to the first seventy students who respond. We welcome all studen~s regardless of faith commitment. Spon,,ored h_y tl.1e Notre Dame Center for Etb/c,1 and Cu flu re http:// ethics center. n d. e d u  


r--------------------------------------­
page 4 Thursday, October 27, 2005
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Haunted Dalloway's makes use of ca111pus ghost stories 
Board members transform College eatery into horror house;.Student Activities Board sponsors pumpkin-carving contest 
turned what was once a simple College. ing tales as students traveled successful -and scary. By NICOLE ZOOK event into a Halloween extrava­"In the past we had wanted to through the haunted house, and "It was better than I expect­Assistant News Editor ganza during the past three bring in an SMC theme, but it one volunteer read house-goers ed," O'Connor said. "I was sur­
years. Voss said they wanted this always seemed so hard," Voss the stories as they waited prised how they were able to 
Screams filled the air in year's two-night fest to be more said. "After finishing it, I agree it upstairs, drinking hot cider. transform the basement of Dalloway's Clubhouse special than ever and have put a was quite an undertaking, but I Students also participated in Dalloway's." Wednesday night as students monumental amount of work think we represent the stories the Student Activities Board Voss said students who were walked through a haunted house into the planning and orchestra­well. pumpkin-carving contest, held unable to attend Wednesday based on old Saint Mary's ghost tion, turning the basement of "It was definitely more fun to upstairs at Dalloway's in con­night have one more chance to stories. Dalloway's into a horror house. play on the old ghost stories junction with the haunted house, live the ghostly past of Saint 
Haunted Dalloway's is an "We've been working on it for than in the past, where we had and a new pasta bar was Mary's, tonight from 8 p.m. to annual tradition put on by the about a month and a half," she movie themes or something revealed, as well, as part of the 10. members of Dalloway's Board, a said. "We came up with a theme else." events. group of students that plans and this year, basing the haunted Voss and the Dalloway's Board Attendees, like senior Kelly Contact Nicoel Zook r at oversees events at the College's house off of the book "Quiet members acted out the disturb-O'Connor, said the event was zook8928@saintmarys.edu on-campus coll'eehouse through­Hours." We really wanted to 
···············································~ 
out the year. Board president bring in the Saint Mary's ghost • • • Elizabeth Voss said the stories, since our campus has so 
: University Resources :
Halloween event is the group's many." largest of the year. "Quite Hours," a 2002 book by • 
• 
"We started it in 2004 and · Saint Mary's graduates Shelly • for Gay, Lesbian, & ••
pretty much threw it together in Houser, Veronica Kessenich and two weeks with no budget," she Kristen Matha, contains grue­• •• said. "We were surprised with some and creepy stories from 
Bisexual Students •••• 
how successful it turned out [to the College's colorful history. be]. From there, we have spent Voss said she felt the stories -• more time and money making it which legend purports to be true •
...H •. 

the best we can." -served as a perfect back­co""MtTTe.r:: o•M •
•
G&V ANO Lflilllli&N

Voss and the Board have ground for a scary event at the •
5TUDI'!.NT Ne·r:os 
•

• The Standing Committee on Gay and ••


CASTING CALL •• • 
Lesbian Student Needs 
•
•

(Confidential information, education, and resources) For a short student film • Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student • • members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Needed: •
•• Office of Campus Ministry • 30-50 year old Caucasian man •• (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students •• 6-9 year old Caucasian girl • and their friends; pertinent library resources in ••• 304 Co-Mo~ confidential discussion and support) •••
20-40 year old hispanic woman • 
Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at 1-9704 
• • Filming will take place over several ••• University Counseling Center ••• evenings in the upcoming weeks. • (Individual counseling) • 
• Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu •
Please contact Katie Johnson at • • 832-607-4465 or Patrick morris at • •
• For more information. check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ •
502-387-4753, or email • • kjohns1 0@ nd.edu • • 

r------------­


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 27, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WJRE SERVJCES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Syria supplying weapons to militants 
UNITED NATIONS -Palestinian militants in Lt~banon arc getting more weapons from Syria. one n~ason why the Lebanese govnrn­nwnt has madn no signifkant progrnss in disbanding and disarming militias that oper­atn with impunity inside its borders, a U.N. rt~port said Wedrwsday. 
Ttw rnport said that despite some positive str•ps, LPhanon still has not achieved full "sovereignty and political independence" morn than six months aftfw Syria withdrew its troops and intnlligmJce apparatus from its rwighhor following a 29-year presence. 
That conelusion could bn a powerful tool for the United States, Franco and Britain, which have proposod a Security Council res­olution that thrnatnns sanctions if Syria does­n't t:oopPratt~ with a Sl\parate probn into the assassination of Lebanon's fornwr prime ministPr. Tlw couneil was to discuss the reso­lution in a meeting later WPdrwsday. 
Iranian president criticizes Israel 
TI·:IIH/\N. Iran-President Mahmoud 1\hmadinnjad declared Wednesday that lsr<ll'l is a "disgraceful blot" that should be "wipPd ol'l' tlw map" -fiery words that Washington said underscores its concern over Iran's rllrdear program. 
/\hmadirwjad 's s1wnch to thousands of stu­dents at a "World without Zionism" confnr­nnt:e sl't a hard-linn foreign policy course sharply at odds with that of his moderate prndncnssor, echoing the snntinwnts of Ayatollah Huhollah Khonwini. the founder of Iran's Islam ie nwolution. 
Thn UnitPd Statns said 1\hmadinnjad's rPnrarks show that Washington's fears about Iran's nudnar program are at:cu rate. 

Cancun tourists stranded in Mexico 
C/\NCLJN. Mnxiro-Thousands of despor­atP tourists stranded by Hurricane Wilma lwsingnd airports and tour ol"fices WP1hwsday as ollkials facnd the challnnge of evanrating 22,000 visitors with only fl,OOO airlirw snats available out of Cancun. 
WhiiP most of thn llooding had roeoded and tdnrtrieity was slowly rnturning, frustrated tourists who had gorw rwarly a wonk without showpring said they could relate to those who survivml llurrkann Katrina. 
"Now I know how those pPopln in Nnw Orloans folt," said Angola Benites. 48, of Moxko City. "Snvoral days of dnsperation is no way to livo." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

CIA leak case jury hears testimony 
W/\SIIINGTON -Tho prosecutor in thf1 CIA leak probP had a eonfidPntiallunchtime meeting with a li~dnral judgo Wednesday after a grand jury listnnml to thrm~ hours of tPstimony in thn t:asn that h<L<> ensnarnd top Whito llouso aides. 
Tho grand jury's term expires on Friday, and llw panel adjournod for the day without announcing any chargns or other action. The administrativn <L<>sistant to Thomas Hogan, the ehinf judge of U.S. District Court in tho nation's capital, confirnwd !logan's meeting with Spneial Counsol Patrick Fitzgnrald. Thn assistant, Shnldon Snook, dodirwd to eommont on what w<L<> discussml. 

Former Alabama Governor indicted 
MONTGOMEHY. /\Ia.-Formor Gov. Don Sit~gnlman W<L<> chargnd Wndrwsday in a "widn­spn~ad raekntenring mnspiracy" that includes aiiPgations hn took a hribn from lilrmor hospital oxt~cutivn Hiehard Serushy for a koy statn apptlintnwnl. 
Also indirtnd on fndnral ehargns wern two nwmbnrs of Siognlman's administration and Scrushy, tho fornwr lwad of the llealthSouth nwdical-st~rviens company who was acquitted Parlinr this ynar in a massive aceounting-lhtud I:(L'>e. 
Singolman. who was govornor from 1<J!J<J to :wo:~. was charged with raeknteering, fraud, bribery, oxtortion and obstruetion ofjustice. 
ISRAEL 


Suicide bomber strikes market 
Five dead, more than thirty wounded in deadliest attack in three months 
Associated Press 
!lADERA, Israel -The bloodied body of a man in his 50's lay on the ground among scattered fruits and mangled metal shards. High above the open-air market, a section of a falafel stand's mota! roof' hung from a eucalyptus troc. 
It was the deadliest attack in Israel in more than three months and had an immedi­ato effect on the rapidly eroding relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, which "has been unable to rein in the mili­tants. 
A 20-year-old Palestinian blacksmith blew himself up at the falafel stand in the central Israeli town of !ladera on Wednesday, killing live Israelis, wound­ing more than 30 and destroying a seetion of the open-air markPt. Nin<·l of the wounded wen1 in seri­ous condition. 
The Islamic Jihad claimod responsibility, saying the attack was to avenge the killing of its West Bank lnader by lsranli fi>reos this wonk. 

The bombnr struck while the markot was bustling a day after being dosed for the Jewish holiday of Simchat Torah. Hescuo workors later covPred bod­ies with blankets, walking on pools of blood and shat­Many of' its residents are spokesman Mark Hegev their violent declarations tered glass. immigrants from North critieized both with viohmt aetions," Heg<w 
Jack Weinberg, a 1\friea and their descen­1\hrnadinejad's statement told The Associatnd Press. Brooklyn-born psyr.hologist dants, alongside newer and another from Whitn llousn spokesman in lladera, arrived at thH arrivals from the former Mahmoud Zahar, a lead11r Seott McClellan eondmnnml scene shortly after the blast Soviet Union. of' the llamas militant group thn bombing and called on and saw the wreekage of a The attack carne hours in the Gaza Strip who thn Pall\stinian leadership car. "If this eould happen to after Iran's state-run media threatened fresh violence to crack down on militants. a car which is made of reported comments from against Israel. "The Palestinian metal. I was afraid of what Iranian President Mahmoud "Today, Israelis heard two Authority nemls to do morn it could do to a person," he 1\hmadinejad calling for extremists speak openly to end tho violence and prn­said. Israel to be "wiped off the about destroying the Jewish vent terrorist attacks from 
Then Weinbnrg saw a dis­map" and saying a new state. One was the now being carried out," hn said. membered body with its wave of Palestinian attacks president of Iran, and the "The terrorist attacks that face still intaet. "It was tho would destroy the Jewish other was the leader of take place only undermine most frightening thing," he state. Hamas, Mahmoud Zahar. the loadership of Prnsident said. Hecalling Iran's history of And it appoars the problem Abbas and undermine his 
lladera is a Jewish work­support for Islamie Jihad, with these extremists is that principle of ono authority, ing-class town of 75,000. Israeli Foreign Ministry they followed through on one law, one gun." 

Wilma victims urged to be patient 
Associated Press 
ABOVE MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, Fla. Homeland Seeurity Secretary Miehael Chertoff on Wednesday asked victims of Hurricane Wilma to have patience for relief efforts as he surveyed crumpled boats, shattered mobile homes and snaking lines of cars at fuel stations along the storm's path. 
Stepping up aid in Wilma's wake, ChortofT promised to deploy cargo planes overnight to gather water and iee from across the country for delivery by Thursday. He also said the government was working to find more power generators to send to south Florida, and called on oil companies to help distribu­

tors get fuel out of the ground and into gas tanks. 
"I have to say, in honesty, patience will be required for everybody," Chertof'f told The Assoeiated Press during his flight to Florida. "Under the best circum­stances, even in the best planning, you still confront the physieal real­ity of a destructive storm." 
Chertoff took an aerial tour of the Miami area by helicopter as part of a day in Florida overseeing the federal government's response to Wilma. Though he acknowl­edged delays in getting supplies to storm victims even two days after Wilma blew through the state, he said the demand for water, food, iee and gas simply outstripped what authorities had stockpiled in preparation. 
Chertoff oversees tho Fodera! Emorgency Managnment Agency, which was widely critieiznd for the government's sluggish response to llurricane Katrina when it ravagod the Gulf Coast nnarly two months ago. 
He spent part of Wndnesday hearing ploas and complaints from local officials. lin was greeted in Opa Locka by a gaggle of frustrat­ed local of'l"ieials who pleaded for water, ien, fuol and -most impor­tantly-pownr. 
"/\ lot of' ehallnnges," said ChertoiT, who mostly listened and offered few promises to thn of'f'i­eials. 
"We'ro all hurricannd out." he said. 
------------, 
page 6 Thursday, October 27, 2005
The Observer + NEWS 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
recently amended disorderly house ordinance, whose new pro­visions allowed for the eviction notices. "The relation between Notre Dame students and South Bend residents was already frayed. I am disappointed that the city resorted to this measure, but we must be honest. Much of the cause for poor community rela­tions comes from our own state of the Student Union." 
Noting that many students have an attitude toward South Bend "that borders on elitism and arro-· gance," Baron recalled the espe­cially condescending opinions of two students surveyed in research 

for the Board of Trustees presen­
tation. 

One student, Baron said, 
described South Bend residents as 
"uneducated, low-aspiring, low­
achieving, but generally nice" 
people. 

When asked how South Bend 
could improve its relationship 
with Notre Dame students, anoth­. er student responded, "South 
Bend is a blue-collar industrial 
town. I don't know if it can meet 
my, or anyone else's, standards." 
Baron said this negative outlook 
could not, and would not, color 
student government's reaction to 
the evictions. 
"There is a normal knee-jerk 
reaction to take the ordinance and 
let it further perpetuate an angry 
Special Saturday Sale At NDSurplus 
Saturday, October 29th 
8:00a.m. -Noon 
925 N. Eddy St. 
(next to Robinson Learning Center) 
Desks, tile cabinets, dressers, night stands, computers, moni­tors, chairs, & much more. In­ Normal Hours of  
ventory changes weekly. Go to the NDSurplus website,  Operation  
buy.nd.edu!surplus, for a cur­ Thursdays  
rent inventory list. Call Frank  11 :30 a.m. -3:00 p.m.  
Parker at 631-7026 for more  
information.  

Cash or check. Items must be removed the day of the sale. 
negative resentment toward South Bend," Baron said. "We could do that, but if poor community rela­tions and inadequate communica­tion are what caused this ordi­nance to be passed in the first place, do you think even worse relations will bring about a better situation for students?" 
Baron said student government would continue to stand by its position that the ordinance unfair­ly targets students and is inconsis­tent with other applications of a law -a fight to which Baron has devoted himself since the South Bend Common Council passed the new amendment July 25. 
"We will compile information regarding the application of a no­warning policy and coordinate legal defense," Baron said. "We intend to bring our arguments to the city of South Bend and demon­strate that this measure is puni­tive beyond its original intention. We'll be working with the University to ensure that mem­bers of our Notre Dame family are not left homeless because of a sin­gle offense." 
Baron spoke Wednesday with Associate Vice President of Residence life Bill Kirk, who said the University would offer on­campus housing to evicted stu­dents or assist them in finding other off-campus housing, Baron said. 
He also discussed initiatives undertaken by student govern­ment's Community Relations com­mittee, headed by Nick Guzman. New to the Senate this year, the committee is in the process of cre­ating a South Bend Opportunities Guide listing jobs, internships and career training for students, Baron said. 
Baron said the committee is also working on a Campus Community Publicity Program to bridge Notre Dame and South Bend and exam­ine ways to educate incoming freshmen on the community through Freshman Orientation. 
He urged senators to help insti­gate changes in attitude toward the community. 
"And I'm not talking about through the passage of a resolu­tion, but through your everyday interactions back in your halls," Baron said. "Look into one of the available internships in South Bend. Take Transpo to the gro­cery store. Go on a date down­town." 

Baron started his address by complementing both the University Afl'airs committee, led by Matt Walsh, and the Gender Relations committee, led by Ali Wishon. · 
Walsh's committee was instru­mental in implementing the University's new agreement with the Transpo bus service, Baron said. 
Since Wishon's committee revamped the "From Football to Finals" Freshman Orientation program for incoming students, Baron said numbers of sexual assault reports have increased. 
"While that may sound trou­bling, the fact of the matter is that these assaults have already been taking place [without being reported]," Baron said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal @nd.edu 

--SUPPORT THE TROOPS-­
CHRISTMAS PACKAGE DRIVE 
(BEGINS NOV 14TH) SPONSORED BY NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTING ASSOCIATION PLEASE SUBMIT NAMES AND LOCATIONS OF SOLDIERS OVERSEAS! 



Contact rzarah@nd.edu 
The Kellogg Institute for International Studies at the University of Notre Dome is proud to present the 
BRAZILIAN musical group 
Featuring Nilze Carvalho 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28 Reekers @ 7 pm 
Free and open to the public 
Made possible by the generous funding of the Brazilian Ministry of Culture. 
Thursday, Octobn 27, 2005 
----::-:c-==----.::====-=­


MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


10,344.98 -32.89

}ones ,~ 

Up: Some: Down: Composite Volum 1,284 160 1/195 2,343,2 I 6.040 
v 
AMEX 1.631.09 -8.24 
NASDAQ 2,100.05 -9.40 
NYSE 7,334.77 -27.07 
S&PSOO 1.191.3~ -5.16 
NIKK£l(Tokyo) I 3,446. 8 3 +51.81 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,227.XO +45.70 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) -0,51 -0,20 38,81 FLEXTRONICS (FLEX) -23,97 -2,90 9,20 I MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +032 +0,08 25, II INTEL CP (INTC) -0,17 -0,04 H07 SIRRIUS SATELLITE (SIRI) +I ,94 +0, 12 6,30 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1,76 +0,83 47,96 
I0-YEAR NOTE +I ,84 +0,83 45,91 5-YEAR NOTE +I ,85 +0,81 44,60 3-MONTH BILL -0,83 -0,32 38,05 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbt) -L 78 60,66 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) -L70 4noo PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.10 86,25 
Excha Rates 
YEN 

115.7850 EURO 
0.8273 POUND 
0.5615 
IN BRIEF 
.. 
Heart device companies subpoenaed 
MINNI·:AI'OI.IS -Fndoral prosoeutors who haw suhpo1'11111'd thrno makors of implantabln lwart dPvin~s an~ probably looking at pay­lliPilts tlw companins mako to doctors. analysts said on Wodrwsday. 
SL .luck Modica) Inc., Modtronic Inc. and (;uidanl Corp. all disrlosnd tho subpoonas latn TuPsday. (;uidant sharns li~ll almost :{.5 porcnnt on WPdrwsday. Guidant, alrnady buiTntml by n•calls, has tlw most to losn, with .Johnson & .Johnson saying last woPk that it is wnighing altl'rnativns to its planrwd acquisition of' thn lndianapolis-basnd rornpany. 
Tlw tlm~n rompanins makn implantablo pan~­rnakPrs and dPiibrillators. Pacc~maknrs usn a mild nlnrtrir.al rurTnnt to spnod a slow hoart­lwat. llt>librillators jolt !warts that havn lifo­thrPatnning irn~gular lwats. Tho dnvicns can cost as much as $30,000. · 
J·:li Karnnwnnan at Cathay Financial Inc. said tlw r.ompanins havn acknowledged paying doc­tors as murh as $2,000 for followup patient data. 


Alaskan oil and gas tract leases sold 
ANCIIOHA<;H, Alaska -Thn lirst saln of state oil and gas lnasns in 22 years on thn Alaska Peninsula gnrwratnd :H bids Wndnnsday, with a major oil company winning the most. 
Slwll Oll'shorn Inc., part of Shell Exploration & Production Co., was thn high hiddnr on :n tracts, all cPntnrnd nnar Port Monllnr. The sitn is soutlwast of Nelson Lagoon, about 5XO milns southwest of Anchoraw~. Ilewitl Mineral Corp. of Ardnwrn, Okla., was high bidder on four tracts in thn sanw arna. 
Alaska oll'nrnd 1.047 tracts mv<wing about 5.X million acrns, an an•a about thn sizn of Nnw llampshirn. Tlw saln acrnagn availabln strPtdrnd from tlw Nushagak P<~ninsula in tho north. down lhn north sidn of tlrn Alaska I'Pninsula. to an an~a north of Cold Bay, includ­ing oiTshorP trarl.s. 
Tlw bids g.-rwratPd about $1.:{ million. Tlw minirmrm hid was $5 pt•r ILITI'. 
Sh.-11 submittPd idl'ntiral bids of $5.02 (JPr atTP gnnnrating $2X,1JI I pnr tract on its :B suc­rPssful bids. IJPwitt hid $21.14 pnr ar.rn, and a total of $121,7h7 Parh. for two tracts. It bid $h. I I pPr a tTl' for two otlwr tracts. Tlw I 0-yPar IPaSPS haw a lixl'd royalty ratl' of 12.5 pnn:nnt. 

Tt....lE 0HSERVER 









USINESS 
page 7 

Wednesday loss for Wall Street 
Boeing Co. and Amazon.com contribute to fall; chances of yearend rise debated 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK-Wall StnH~t l'inislwd a volatiln snssion with a loss Wednesday as investors strugglml to dignst a mix of earnings reports and wniglwd tlw odds of a ynan~nd rally that would give thn llagging stock mar­kPt a boost. 
Disappointing earnings from Boning Co. and a lower-than-expected holi­day salns l'orocast l'rom Amazon.com Inc. prnssurnd l.lw major indexes for rnueh of the sossion dnspitn other positive earnings n~ports. Tho divergent news from corporations lnl"l invnstors wondering whether thn usual "Santa Claus" rally, which boostnd stocks for oach of the last four yoars, would take placf~. 
"It's been a mixf~d earn­ings season so far. For every large eompany that's given you good numbers, you've had some disappointment from big names," said Huss Koostnrich, senior portfolio manager at Bardays Global lnvestnwnts in San Francisco. "On top of that, you don't havo any rnal pos­itive outlooks for the fourth quartor and the Federal Heserve is still hawkish on inl'lalion. So what do you do'! You trade around in this range and go nowhern. rnally." pnrennt, to 1,191.38, and dollar rosn against most grnatnr than analysts had 
Crude oil futuros also the Nasdaq mmpositc index major c u rrn nt·.ies, w h il1~ expected, and Boning stork l"luctuatnd, contributing to lost 9 .40, or 0.45 percent. to gold prices fnll. fell $1.X7 to $(,5.10. tho uncertainty. Aftor rising 2,100.05. For some investors, Amazon tumblnd $h.42. as high as $63 per barrel, Bonds slid to their lownst Boning's lagging sales or 14 JH'rc:ent, to $:{9. 75 futurns Iilii $1.7S to $W.6h lnvols sincn March on P!~r­rellnctnd thn pressures on after issuing its disappoint­pnr barrel on tho Now York sistnnt concerns about the tlw airlinn industry. ing fourth-quartPr salt~s Mercantile Exchangn. Federal Heserve's possible Boning's main r.ustonwr. forneast. Thn lntl'rrwt 
Tho Dow Jones industrial stancn on inl'lation under which is struggling with retailer lwat Wall Str'<'l't's avnrago fell 32.H9. or 0.32 Bon Bernanke, nominated higher fuel costs. While prolit fonwasts by 2 rents pereent, to 10,344.9S. li>r thn chairmanship oarlinr Boning's profit doubled per sharn for the third 
Hroader stock indicators this week. The yield on the from the pnwious year and quartt~r lwforP ont•-tinH' also lost ground. Tho I 0-year Trnasury note rose the company issued an charges, hut thn foreeast Standard & Poor's 500 to 4.59 percent from 4.53 upbnat forncast, the Pll"ncts led analysts at Citigroup index droppod 5.16, or 0.4:{ percent late Tuesday. The of thn strike W<H'e far and I>nutsdw Bank to 


Health insurer's stocks fall hard 
Associated Press lot more optimistic forecasts for what share, in last year's third quartnr. 
Medicare Part D will do." Analysts surveyed by Thomson· 
INDIANAPOLIS -Shares of For 2006, WeiiPoint said it remains Financial were nxpncting a prolit ol" WnllPoint Inc. tumbled Wednesday, committed to its goal of achieving 15 $1.01 pm shan~. despite a solid earnings report that percent growth in earnings per The company was formed last showed revenue for thn nation's share, not taking into account any November when Indianapolis-bas<HI largest health insurer more than ef'f'eet from its pending acquisition of Anthem lne. bought Thousand Oaks. doubled as the company continued to New York-based WniiChoiee Inc., or Calif.-basnd WeiiPoint llealth rnap tlw benelits of last ynar's merg­from expensing stock options. That Networks Inc. and adoptc~d llw or. ligurn does include revenue from tho WeiiPoint namn. 
Still, nervous investors worriod the company's participation in the Wnllpoint said third-quartnr rev­Indianapolis-based company's 200(, Mndicare drug benefit that begins nnun rosn 135 p<m~nnt to $1 1.:{ bil­outlook isn't as robust as analysts Jan. 1. lion from last y<mr's $4.H billion rPy­had hoped, because of lower-than­While We11Point nx()(:utives declirwd nnue of Anthnm alorw. On a compa­expnetnd revenue from tho Mmlicare to provide more information about rabln basis, looking at r<~sults as il" proscription drug program. their finaneial projnetions for noxt l.lw combinnd r.ompany was in place 
The eompany's stoek closnd down year, officials said company oxpncts at the bnginning or last ynar's third $4.37 or 5.7 percPnt to $71.72 in $1 billion in rovenun from its quartPr, revnnue rosn 5.h JlPI'<:<~nl. trading on tho Nnw York Stoek Mndieare drug program. Analysts nxppct1~d tim company to l~xchangn. WniiPoint Chief Exoeutivo OITicnr post revnnue of $1I.:N billion. 
"I think tlwrn are many pPopln who Larry C. Glasscock said startup costs Wnllpoint also raisPd its full-yPar look at MPdieare as a rPal opportuni­for t.lw program will be $40 million. a prolit outlook to $].<);{ Jll'r sham. up ty for the industry to rnsnr. · its $10 million increase from earlier 2 cPnts p1~r sharP from thn rompany's growth," said Bane ol" Anwriea <lstimatns. JH"PVious l"on~cast. That projPrtion Securities analyst .JosPph France. The company's nd inconw rose to indudns it<~ms that will rPducl' narn­"And WPIIPoint is saying it will only $(140.7 million, or $1.02 pnr share, ings by h cnnts per share. I!I'VI'HIH' is add a l"nw ePnts. I think tlwrn arc~ a from $242.1 million, or S5 ennts per expnd!ld to total $44.5 billion 
page 8 Thursday, October 27, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS 
Visit 
continued from page 1 
Orleans in the city's time of need, Jenkins said. 
"We explored opportuni­ties to lend assistance that are unique to post-second­ary institutions," he said. "For instance, what knowl­edge can be applied from the sciences, architecture, engineering or business'?" 
Representatives from these disciplines, along with members of the administration and leaders of the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), comprised the delegation. Along with Jenkins, those who traveled to New Orleans Wednesday included Frances Shavers, executive assistant to the president; Father Bill Lies, director of the CSC; Bill Purcell, associate director for Catholic social tradition and practice at the CSC; Carolyn Woo, dean of the Mendoza College of Business; Philip Bess, director of graduate studies at the School of Architecture; and Ahsan Kareem, professor of civil engineering and geological sciences. 
The group visited church­es in three areas of New Orleans -Lakeview, St. Bernard's Parish and the Ninth Ward, where they toured the campus of the Holy Cross School, the sec­ond school founded by the Congregation of Holy Cross in the U.S. These regions were selected by the arch­diocese to give the dele­gates an exposure to the city across varying socioe­conomic classes, Shavers said. 
"We saw damage in poor, affluent, and middle class communities," she said. 
"Nature did not discrimi­nate." 
Along with encounters with Hughes and DiGange, the delegation also met with representatives of Catholic Charities, Catholic Relief Services and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FE MAJ. 
The diverse professional backgrounds of the delega­tion's members led to a variety of reactions to the tour. 
Purcell, who serves as a faculty member through lhe Institute for Church Life in addition to his duties at the esc. noted the rele­vance of Catholic social teaching to the purpose of rebuilding efforts in New Orleans. 
"The disaster ... is a con­crete way that we can work on building solidarity with our fellow brothers and sis­ters in need." he said. 
As a specialist in stru(> ture performance during hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes and ocean waves, Kareem was involved in visits to Kobe, .Japan, after the 1995 earthquake. 
He noted that New Orleans' sub-sea level loca­tion could necessitate the hardening of the city's lev­ees before rebuilding could occur. 
"Some decision must also be made regarding rebuild­ing of housing," he said, "especially those vnry vul­nerable to flood damage." 
Within the field of archi­tecture, Bnss specializes in 
urban design, an area that he calls "germane to what some of the needs are down there, as is plain architec­ture." 
He echoed Kareem's questions about rebuilding in the lower parts of the city. 
"Lots of building down there in the last 50 years has depended on draining marshes and had bad envi­ronmental effects," he said. "Whether New Orleans should shrink back to its pre-1950s size and try to restore the environment and wetlands is a very politically loaded question." 
The delegates expressed admiration for the efforts of community leaders who are already trying to restore life in New Orleans. 
"I was especially impressed with the Archdiocese and the [Catholic) school systems," Bess said. "The schools are up and running, while the public schools have shut down for the year they're up and running and trying hard to educate their students." 
These human strivings are particularly notable in the almost unnatural atmosphere of the city, del­egates said. 
"The situation was surre­al, mostly because of the deafening silence," Purcell said. "In the street after street of destruction, there were no people, no ani­mals, no birds, no bugs, no cars or movement in an area that is all brown from saltwater." 
Many of the delegates noted that the tragic reality of post-Katrina New Orleans exceeds portrayals in the media. 
"There is a major differ­ence between what you see on TV and what you see at the location," said Kareem, who observed the destruc­tion that replaced entire subdivisions of the city. 
"As evident to everyone worldwide, the people of New Orleans sufl'ered tremendous loss," Jenkins said. "Perhaps not as apparent from photos and news accounts, however, is that people have not only lost houses, but they have lost homes of 20 to ·40 years; not only have they lost neighborhood stores and gas stations, but they can no longer l'ind their neighbors; not only have they lost jobs, but many have lost some degree of control in their lives and now rely on the kindness of strangers; not only have they lost schools and churches, but they have lost a sense of belonging." 
Notre Dame is in touch with Holy Cross interests such as Our Lady of Holy Cross College and Alliance for Catholic Education vol­unteers in the New Orleans area, as well as Xavier and Tulane Universities, University spokesman Matt Storin said. 
"We are in regular con­tact with them," he said. "Anything they need help with, we will be responsive to, but we have to been sensitive because colleges and universities lin New Orleans) are clear that they are going to reopen and that they want their stu­dents and faculty back." 

Pride 
continued from page 1 
era! "Identity Forums," in which students debated the image depicted on the shirt and discussed on campus-wide diversity. Other concerns involving "Pride Week" also emerged, particularly that the week culminated with Saint Mary's playing host at a Notre Dame football pep-rally. 
Mitros said Pride Week had lost its true meaning due to several factors, not entirely to the T-shirt controversy. 
"Pride Week always fell dur­ing midterms, which was an inopportune time for students," she said. "The week's events at Dalloway's would only attract about ten students. PMple also did not look forward to eating outdoors during the Twilight Tailgate." 
Mitros and student body vice president Susan Mcllduff hope to model Heritage Week off of the successful events surround­ing the inauguration of College president Carol Mooney in January. 
There will be an event each day -such as a lecture or campus-wide scavenger hunt -that will focus on the history of the College. The week will conclude with a formal 1920s­style dinner in Stapleton Lounge. 
"We knew that [Pride Week] was a sensitive issue, so we made the change in an attempt to find a way to create a com­fortable environment," Mitros said. 
Mcllduff agreed that Pride Week was not successful and did not succeed in uniting the student body through a series of campus events. 
"We knew coming into office that we would need to do some­thing to make !Pride Week] more successful. Last year's controversy really put the week over the edge," she said. Pride Week in the wake of last 
Heritage Week's goal will be year's controversy. to promote a greater know!-"However, I do not agree with edge of the College's history the name change," Barker said. within the student body, the "The title 'Pride Week' means pair said. The week will work SMC pride -a week to visibly to "promote greater under-have pride in our school," standing and appreciation of Barker said. "Changing the Saint Mary's history and show name to 'Heritage Week' means how it made the College what it what? That we have a her­is today." as promised on the itage?" Mitros-Mcllduff campaign plat-Barker feels that the name form. change presents the same 
However, not all students are potential for controversy. She satisfied with the decision to do believed the celebration of her-away with the itage might bring up tradition of issues regarding Pride week. "/don't see why "SMC being regard-
Junior Erin people are afraid to ed as a white, mid-Luter felt that die-class finishingPride Week use the title 'Pride' school." created an andfind something Despite the fact increased to be proud of Pride that last year's T-
sense of unity shirt controversy through the Week is something divided the student campus-wide that everyone body, Caddy feels sale of the should be proud of" some positive results Pride Week T-emerged. Students shirt. are now more will­
"1 am disap-Amanda Caddy ing to hear and sym­pointed and Saint Mary's senior pathize with others, feel like [BOG] she said. has given in to "As peers, [we] the controversy," she said. "I should have listened and see wish we could have [both Pride why people were offended. Now Week and Heritage Week]. It is we are making progress. I have important to know the College noticed a large increase on the history, but Pride Week helped focus of identity and diversity us to know ourselves as Saint around campus," Caddy said. Mary's women, not as women Barker feels that Student who go to a college near Notre • Government did need to do Dame." something to further address 
Senior Amanda Caddy last year's issues; however, she protested last year's Spirit believes they have taken it one Week shirt and welcomed the step too far. idea of a week dedicated to "I still believe that everyone Saint Mary's history. She did should have pride in their not feel it was necessary, how-school -after all, everyone ever, to drop the title Pride made the choice to come here, Week and adopt a new one. and we are the number one 
"I don't see why people are Midwest college," Barker said. afraid to use the title 'Pride' "Having a week that celebrates and find something to be proud pride is a great idea. Heritage of. Pride Week is something week celebrates our history that everyone should be proud instead of focusing on our of," Caddy said. school and spirit now." 
Senior Cheryl Barker was not surprised that the Student Contact Kelly Meehan at Government decided to cancel kmeehaOl@saintmarys.edu 

Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, October 27, 2005 6:30 PM 129 DeBartolo 
Pre-med program fall semester in Puebla Engineering and business courses in Monterrey Elementary Spanish in Monterrey Summer Program for Engineers and others in Puebla 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15 FOR FALL, SPRING AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2006-7, MARCH 1 FOR SUMMER 2006, MAY 1 FOR SPRING 2007 APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/....,intlstudL 
Contact Karen Langley klanglel@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 27, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
honest about their dishon­honor codes would explain academic dishonesty. Specific to Notro Dame, esty," he said. cheating on all campuses, but "Having a code doesn't do McCabe discovered telling


Honor 
continued from page 1 
Notrc Dame partieipatod in MeCahe's 2004-2005 acadmnic y e a r s u rv c y a Io n g w i t h 6 (, other schools. In the web­basml survcy of undcrgradu­ate stli(Jpnts from varied col­leges, 20 percent reportHd tHst elwating -copying another's work, using cheat notes or helping otlwrs -and 42 per­cent reportml written cheating -plagiarizing or fabricating a bibliography. 
McCabc said the problem was probably underrnportcd. "It's s1df-report data, so you're asking students to be 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUI>V 1•1~0GI~AMS IN 

DUBLIN, IRELAND 
FALL 2006, SPRING 2007, AY 2006-7, SUMMER 2006 
INFORMATION MEETING 
WITH CLAUDIA KSELMAN AND RETURNEES OF THE PROGRAM 
THURSDAY,OCTOBER27 5:30PM 129 DBRT 
Applic~ttion Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2005 FOR FALL, SPI~ING, AND ACAilEMIC YEAR 2006-7 MARCH I, 2006 FOR SUMMER 2006 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
till 1 ~ JL _JlJ 
Saturday Oct. 29 

iOo 

i£ 
vs. Seton Hall at 7:00pm luggage Tags_h~nded out to earlv ar~1vmg fans sponsored bv _1-\"~-i 

Sundav Oct. 30 
vs. #&louisville at 2:00p,;;T__T\_r ;~ 

vs. Cincinnati at12:30pm
300 fans will receive 
First 300 fans will receive
Volleyball puules 
NO PiUUV banks sponsored bv
sponsored by 

McCabe also said because the study was completed via tho Internet, students feared their answers were being monitored and questioned the anonymity of the survey. 
In addition to numerical data collected and tabulated in the study, McCabe said he discovered contributing insti­tutional and personal factors that contribute to the problem of academic dishonesty at the collegiate level. 
McCabe said the main influ­ence in the propensity of stu­dents to cheat was what he ealled the "cheating culture" of a school. 
"I was a great believer that 

I was wrong," he said. any good unless you explain to 
The cheating  students its impor­ 
culture  encom­ tance in the life of  
passes how academic dis­honesty is per­ "Students might see other students  the campus," he said. "If' students sense faculty don't  
ceived by stu­ cheating and then  support the honor  
dents on cam­pus, how fre­quently it  see faculty turning their heads. "  codH, a student under academic pressure could  
occurs  and  to  make tho decision  
what extent it  Don McCabe  that  it's  okay  to  
is "accepted," McCabe said.  Rutgers University business professor  cheat." McCabe said stu­ 

McCabe said both the pres­ence as well as the potency of a school's honor code also contributes to stu­dents' tendency to commit 
One luckv NO, SMC or HCC Student will win Allegiant Airline Tickets to either las Vegas or Orlando 
dents are more 
likely to cheat if 

they feel faeul.ty members don't support aca­demic policies, and thus fore­see little chance of getting caught or facing stringent penal!ies. 
"Students might sen other students cheating and then see faculty turning their heads," he said. 
In the overall survey, approximately 80 percent of all faculty members said they had either seen or suspected acts of' cheating, but 57 per­cent said they had never reported academie dishorwsty, McCabe said. 
McCabe said the "straight line" increasn in cheating from freshman through senior year at college occurs bncausn as studHnts spend morn limn at an institution, they learn more about tho 
cheating culture of "1/aving a code Students the school. doesn't do any good also said Personal factors punishnwnts
unless you explain
unique to only some are too 
to students its
students also severn in increase the likeli­importance in the sonw situa­ness of college stu-tions.
life ofthe campus. " 
dents to cheat. "Many stu­McCabe said. dents al According to the Don McCabe Notre Damn study, business Rutgers University support the majors reported the honor code,
business professor
highest instances of cheating out of all 
majors and concentrations. 
"Many [business) students said they expect cheating in the corporate world and arc only preparing for future earners," he said. 
MeCabe said engineers are also likely to cheat as academ­ic dishonesty becomes "an issue of' time management." 
Males, students with nxtrcnw GPAs -very low or very high -and studnnts involved in Greek life or ath­letics are also more likely to commit academic dishonesty, McCabe said. 
• 
\ . \ 
trends about the University's own "dwating culture." 
McCabe said "many" stu­dents who participated in last year's survey felt the honor code was eiTectivn and saw lit­tle or no nned for change. 
"Studnnts at Notro Damn don't sec (cheating) as much of a problem here," he said. "They don't think it's a consis­l!mt issuo." 
One aspect of the honor codn with which students worn not in agrenmont was regarding the praeticc of' "studont reporting." In Notre Dame's honor codo, students arc advised to report possible acts of dishonesty "directly to the instructor of the coursH." 
McCabe said although some studHnts felt it was tho "right thing to do," many were con­cerned they might become a "rat" or "narc." Others said it is simply not the students' responsibility to police the academic dishonesty of thnir peers. 
"Students arc simply unwill­ing to rnport tlwir pners, and it's a mistake to harp on r<~porting," McCabe said. "Studnnts should bn providnd a snt of options -maybe not necessarily naming names but perhaps making suggestions to faculty about Jdishonnstyf 
problems in tlw elass." 
but some 

think thn penalties are too severe, espe­cially in regards to offenses dun to ignorance, lfor exam­plcl accidentally plagiarizing two sentences because of improper citation," McCabe said. "For more trivial situa­tions, I think sometimes lpun­ishmcntl has hnen ovnr-thn­top." 
McCabe said emphasis should be plaeed on education -not punishnwnt -and a stu­dent's l'i rst ignorant offense should be a "teachabln moment." 
"It's absolut!dy critical wn lwlp students UIHinrstand pla­giarism," he said. 
Others in thn survny said morn nduration rngarding thP honor code and faculty expnc­tations would bn benel'ieial. McCabe agreed with the ineroase in communication and collaboration b1~twenn studnnts and faculty nwmhnrs. 
"I think students Iwed to have a sonsn of ownership and feet. Ithe h.~mor c1~dn I.}~ rn<.Lily their own, he sa1d. I he laet that students should play a role -I certainly feel that way, but f'm not sure Notre Damn faculty members do as well." 
McCabe said he couldn't pre­scribe a spceil'ic solution for Notre Dame because as an outsider, it was not possible to fully grasp the University's specific "chnating culture." However, he did urge faculty members to be proactive with tho issue. 
"It would be presumptuous of me to eomn in here and tell you what to do -you need to decide for yourselves," he said. 
Contact Katie Perry at Kperry5@nd.edu 
_ 
alle(il.nt j . 
• 1 .. v··<, 10. r. IJ1]})filll-f'1Iftr..-818-R-QI.,....,~·@-~([[8®TI1lm111 
Saturday Oct. 29 j .. . /' 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 27, 2005 
Cross 
continued from page 1 

that hit the Gulf Coast on Aug. 
25. All eight of the campus' buildings suffered flood dam­age, and the gym's roof was blown in by the heavy winds. Insurance is expected to cover only $2 million of the estimated $10 million of rebuilding costs, said Charles DiGange, Holy Cross Headmaster. 
"We received six feet of water that covered the entire cam­pus," said DiGange, who gradu­ated from Holy Cross and later worked as an Associate Vice President at Loyola University in New Orleans. 
The Holy Cross School was founded in 1849, when five Holy Cross priests and brothers traveled from South Bend ­where the order founded Notre Dame in 1842 -to New Orleans. The campus in the Ninth Ward has been the school's home since 1859, though it received its official charter in 1979. 
"We are in a very poor sec­tion of New Orleans, but the area we are located in is called the Holy Cross National Historical District," DiGange said, noting that the school's Main Building was one of a number of buildings in the dis­trict with historical signifi­cance. 
One does not have to look far to find strong ties between Notre Dame and Holy Cross culture. The schools share the same colors, fight song and alma mater, though the words "Notre Dame" are of course replaced by "Holy Cross" for the New Orleans school. 
"Another myth is that the fight song was actually written on our campus and sent to Notre Dame by one of the Brothers," DiGange said. 
Notre Dame may have relied on help from the Holy Cross School to remain open after its own Main Building burned to the ground in 1879, the head­master said. 
"We sold a major portion of our property for $10,000 to help Notre Dame," DiGange said. 
Though University President Father John Jenkins said he was unfamiliar with this story, it was seconded by Brother Donald Blauvelt, Province Secretary and Director of Formation for the South-West Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
"The Holy Cross School was always very supportive of Notre Dame," Blauvelt said. "They have sold some property to support Notre Dame in time of need. In years when [the Holy Cross School] was successful and Notre Dame would have something like the fire, they would respond." 
The University later support­ed Holy Cross, lending inspira­tion to the high school's stu­dents when legendary football coach Knute Hockne and the Notre Dame football team visit­ed the Holy Cross campus on their way to the 1924 Rose Bowl. The team, led by the sen­ior backfield nicknamed the Four Horsemen, went on to win the national championship. 
"They took a Sunset Limited train that passed through New Orleans," DiGange said. "Knute Rockne gave a speech to the student body, and the team practices on our practice field." 
Football remains a major part of school life at Holy Cross, as it has since its team's incep­tion in 1922. After Katrina, DiGange established a satellite campus in Baton Rouge, La. 
Along with a girls' Catholic school from New Orleans, 175 Holy Cross boys attend school from 4-9 p.m. each day at the Dunham School, a private reli­gious school. The others remain dispersed throughout the country. 
Even with less than half of its student body in Baton Houge, Holy Cross put together a foot­ball team -though without a campus of its own, the team has no locker room and keeps its equipment in a rental truck. A Baton Rouge grammar school allows the team to use its field for practice at 11:30 each morning, while a local YMCA provides a place for players to shower before classes start in the afternoon. 
"This is a tremendous sacri­fice these men are making to play football," DiGange said. 
Though DiGange is grateful that a satellite school has been possible, he is eager to move the students and faculty back home. 
"We will be moving to New Orleans early in November," he said. "The [girls' school] cam­pus will be okay to use in the afternoon." 
While there is much work to be done in New Orleans, fund­ing is a greater issue than man­power. 
"We're looking basically for monetary donations to help bridge the gap between the damage costs and the insur­ance," DiGange said. "When the restricted area [of the Ninth Ward) is opened up, we have a list of 80 volunteers just wait­ing for the go-ahead to come paint and move stuff. They will help spruce up the place." 
When a delegation from Notre Dame -including Jenkins -was in New Orleans last Wednesday, DiGange met with the representatives and showed them the damage to his campus. 
"It was a poignant moment of solidarity among those who have the responsibility of carry­ing on [University founder] Father [Edward] Sarin's legacy in this country," said Father William Lies, director of the Center for Social Concerns and a member of the Notre Dame delegation. 
Other Notre Dame represen­tatives in New Orleans last week included professor Wilasa Vichit-Vadakan and professor Jennifer Woertz, both of the department of mechanical engi­neering and geological sci­ences. Their trip was part of a National Science Foundation grant to study mold in flood­damaged areas. 
The Holy Cross School was identified as a place that need­ed help, and so the engineers met with DiGange and toured the campus. 
"We took samples and pic­tures and will be back in touch with him once Qur analysis is done," Vichit-Vadakan said. 
Notre Dame is in touch with members of the Congregation of Holy Cross in New Orleans, but the University is best equipped to provide direct aid to post-secondary institutions, University spokesman Matt Starin said. 
"The congregation might plan something on their own that's separate from Notre Dame," he said. "We would have less to do with them since they are a high school." 
Though the Congregation of Holy Cross does not have the resources to finance the rebuilding required by Holy Cross School, it intends to assist the school through fundraising efforts, Blauvelt said. 
"It's a massive rebuilding 
project at that school that will take a long time and a lot of money," he said. "But [the school] has been on that prop­erty since the 1870s -it's weathered previous hurricanes, but never as bad as this." 
The Holy Cross School has always been deeply involved the life of the Ninth Ward, which holds its neighborhood association meetings on the campus and benefits from the community cleanup days arranged by the school. 
"We are the anchor of the neighborhood," DiGange said. 
Holy Cross also provides edu­cational opportunities for young men in the community, providing 10 full scholarships per high school grade level to neighborhood boys who can handle the school's curriculum but lack the funds to pay for it. In a tribute to the founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, these students are called Moreau Scholars. 
After having spent nearly half his life on the Holy Cross cam­pus, DiGange remains opti­mistic about the future. 
"I think we are going to come back," he said. "The school has been through many things before ... this is another bump on the road, but we are big and strong enough to rebuild. The philosophy of Father Moreau is still alive, to educate the mind, body, heart and soul." 
Donations for the Holy Cross School can be sent to: 
Holy Cross Hope Fund 
c/o Brother Hichard Critz, esc 1101 St. Edward's Drive Austin, TX 78704-6512 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 

Tickets 

continued from page 1 
bracelets upon entering the JACC and had to stay for the duration of the event. Everyone who received a bracelet was given a ticket voucher at the end of the evening. 
A total of 2,700 bracelets 
were on hand to be given on a first-come, first-serve basis. Despite the long line of students along Juniper road, every student in line received a bracelet. At 
10:45 p.m. there were still 200 bracelets left. 
Monica 

"I had parents calling 
projects and worrying that their exams. I have 
child wasn't going to other work to 
be doing."

get tickets since he 
But for sen­goes to bed at 1 o ior Ashley 
every night. " Sinnott, who 
waited in line for three 

Monica Cundiff 
hours, the director of events event was 
Cundiff, director of events and sports marketing in the athletic department, was pleased with the event, despite a flood of complaints from students in the days leading up to it. 
"Students were confused at first," Cundiff said. "I had parents calling worrying that their child wasn't going to get tickets since he goes to bed at 10 every night. But students seem to be excited for the basketball season. They seem to have positive spirits now." 
Students watched head coach Mike Brey play Around the World with a student from Dillon Hall. There were free throw contests and 'hamster races.' The night also fea­tured food from Chick-Fil-A, a chance to view walk-on try­outs and a speech from Brey. 
But despite the entertain­ment, some students seemed only mildly entertained. 
Junior Chris Kolaczkowski sat far away from the action of the basketball court as he waited out the evening. 
"This is stupid," Kolaczkowski said. ''They are forcing people to come to a two-hour event when everyone has 
worth it. Still, 
she said she had friends who lived off-campus who were not going to be able to get tickets due to conflicts with the two-hour long event. 
"I think this is a good idea to generate excitement for the team," Sinnott said. "It's nice." 
Brey, who helped create "Late Night with the Legion," was thrilled with how the evening turned out. 
"We wanted to do some­thing intimate with our best fans," Brey said. "I am thrilled that so many came to watch. I want to make this an annual event." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at Mmalone3@nd.edu 


Come L1sten An Learn A out T e 
COMMUNITY of SANT'EGIDIO 
Sunday October 30 at 7pm in the Center for Social Concerns (Next to Hesburgh Main Library on the Notre Dame Campus) 
The Community of Sant'Egidio1 begun in Rome in 1968, is a movement of lay people dedicated to prayer, charity, and living the Gospel message. Today there are ov~r 60,000 members in more than 70 countries. Founder, Andrea Riccardi, received the 2001 Notre Dame International Award for the community's work 
with the poor and its international peace negotiations. 
Paulo Mancinelli from Rome, Italy, will speak about the history of the Community and how you can be involved. 
Solidarity and Friendship with the Poor.-t Communicating the Gospel. Abolition o'f the Death Penalty. International Peace Negotiations. Humanitarian Aid. Prayer. 
For questions or additional info, contact Cassie Herman -cherman@nd.edu or Richard LaSalvia Richard LaSalvia@sbc lobal.net or 574-31.5-9420 
Thursday, October 27, 2005 The Observer +INTERNATIONAL NEWS page II 
JAPAN 


U.S. and Japan strike deal on Ainerican Inilitary presence 
based oversoas, and nearly all are on Okinawa. 
Okinawans hav11 long com­plained of crime, crowding and noise associated with the American bases. Protnsts against the presence pnaked in 1995 fill­lowing the rape of an Okinawan schoolgirl by thrnn U.S. snrvice­men. 
Machimura said cutting the number of' Marines on the island would soothe local opposition to the military presence. 
"I want to show the people in Okinawa what kind of burden reduction thern will bn. It's going t? b~ a ve~y large-scale n~due­twn, hn satd. 
However, some residents said they were still upset with the deal struck Wndnesday. 
"We're not satisfied that a new facility will be constructed in Okinawa," said Yoiehi lim, mayor of Ginowan City, whorn Futmuna is currently located. "The agn~e­ment ignores demands by tho Okinawan people that their bur­den bo lightened by transferring the U.S. bases out of Okinawa, or 



Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
{fyou or someone you love needs help or in_formation, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student AtTairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, l-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 



South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


GERMANY 

Court rules for J evvish family's reparations 
ROWING GOlD GAME! 

Notre Dame Invitational 10/29@1:00pm At the NO Boathouse Fridav Oct. 28 lwhere South Bend Ave. vs. Princeton at 1:30pm meets the St Joe Riverl 
First 1000 fans receive 
First100 fans receive a 
hockev pucks
Gold Games T-shirt 

sponsored bv
sponsored bV: 

freshman hockev o1a1rers, 
1~: sponsored bV 
~ 
•o\ITM .IND 0tii1'MD....CI'IUI:a 

Associated Press 
BEHLIN -Germany's highnst administrative eourt has upheld claims to n~al estate in Berlin by heirs or a Jewish family who lost their depart­ment store fortune under the Nazis. 
The ruling is a vietory ror the Wertheim heirs, and dolivers a setback to KarstadtQuelle, which had fought the family's elaim to the sito of its rormer downtown Berlin department store near the city's glitzy, redeveloped Potsdamer Platz square worth millions of dol­lars. 
The Stato Administrative Court in Leipzig rulod that the Wertheims retainfld their claim on the property because they had not been compensated ror it under Allied restitution pro­grams. The decision was made Oct. 13 and publicized by the family's U.S. attorney, Gary Osen or Oradell. New Jnrsey, in a press releasn Wednesday. 
"I have always had great confidence in the German court system and this raith has been redeemed," said Barbara Principe of Newfield, N . .1. She is the granddaughter or one of the founding mombnrs of the Wertheim eompany. 
Saturdavo vs. Princeton at First 500 fans rec1nve~ trading cards ••u•tt•••iiin 
out of Japan." 
A group of mostly eldnrly locals continued a sit-in protnst near Camp Schwab against the U.S. military presmu:e, Kyodo said. The opposition group has been staging protests then~ for more than a year. 
Washington and Tokyo agreed nearly 1 0 ynars ago to move the Futenma base as part of an over­all plan to reduce the military's burden on island rosidents. 
Hesean:h already had bPgun on a proposed rnplaeenwnt lwliport to be built ofT the eoast near Camp Sehwab. But environnwn­talislc.;, residnnlc.; and othor oppo­nonL'i said the plan would wn~ck one of thn aroa's last hnalthy coral rnefs and have mounted regular protnsts to block tlw resoarrh. 
In the faee of that opposition, Japan eame up with a proposal to eombinn tlw air station's func­tions with Camp Schwab. Washington initially balked at that plan, in part hneausn the 
U.S. bnli!WI~d it, too, would bn fought by rnsidenlc.;. 
Associarcd Press 
TOKYO -The United States on Wmlnnsday averted a possibly damaging hattln over the large 1\mnrican. military presence in .Japan, striking a dnal with its top ally in Asia over the rt'location of a Marine bast~ in Okinawa and paving tho way for broader rnalignrnent talks this wnekend. 
Undnr a .Japanesn proposal, the 
U.S. agrnnd to dose the Futnnma Marine Corps 1\ir Station in the crowded southern part of the island and move its functions to Camp Sehwab in the north, oiTI­dals said. 
Both sillns comprornisnd on the major sticking point in the deal: construction of a hnliport on reelainwd land ofT Okinawa, which .Japannse environmental­isle.; had argund would threaten a roral rnnf. arrording to .Japanese media rnports. 
Tho U.S. agrm~d to build only part of the heliport on redaimed land. but managed to negotiate a long~w runway than tlw Japanese had sought, thn Kyodo News Agoncy said. lead American negotiator in the 
The agrenment opens the way talks, declined to comment on for high-level talks on Saturday in why the U.S. changed its position, Washington on the broader but said the plan "provides a realignmnnt of the 50,000 U.S. eomprehonsive, eapable and exe­
troops in Japan,  eutablo solution  
part  of  the  for the replace­ 
American effort  ment  of  
to streamlino its military over­seas and <:reate  "There was a sense of emergency that not  Futenma in an expeditious and eomplete man­ 
a  leaner,  morn  reaching agreement on  ner."  
flPxible fighting  the security issue, a  The realign­ 
force. "There was a  central part ofthe U..S'.­ ment could  talks lead to  
sense of 'emer­ Japan relationship,  the reduction of  
gency that not  would seriously damage  thousands  of  
reaching agrne­me\")t on the  relations. "  U.S. Marinos on Okinawa,  
security issue, a  Maehimura  
central part of  Nobutaka Machimura  said.  Kyodo  
the U.S.-Japan  Japanese foreign minister  News  Agency  
relationship,  said  4,000  
would seriously  Marines would  
damage  rela­ b1~  relocated to  
tions," Japanese  other parts of  

Foreign Minister Nobutaka Japan or to Guam under the Ma<:himura told reporters, refer­plan, but U.S. oflidals rnfused to ring to the troop realignment. comment on tho number. There 
Hiehard Lawless, U.S. deputy are 14,460 U.S. Marines in undersecrotary of defense and Japan, the largest contingent 
"Karstadt()unlle should do what is right and givt~ up this rruitless right ovnr propnt·ty that nevnr btdongnd to them in the f'irst plaee," slw said. !\ KarstadtQuelle spoknsman eould not immediatnly be reachnd. 
Attornnys for their lwirs said in a statement the property would be sold and thn proeeods would be distributed to tlH~ scattered heirs by the Jewish Claims Conference, which hnlps distribute Nazi-era repa­rations. The departmont store sito is worth some $20 million, attorneys for the hoirs said. 
Wertheim brothers Gnorg, Franz and Wilhelm transferred their interest in the company holding properties in Berlin to third parties during the Nazi era, the court said in its deci­sion. The ramily got their shares baek after World War II under Allied rnstitution pro­grams. it said. but without me­ompense for property in Sovint­controllnd East Berlin. 
The stake was sold to the ll1~rtie rntailer in 1951, which was merged with Karstadt­Quelle in IIJIJIJ. KarstadtQuelle has said it legally acquirnd the property, but Wertlwim lwirs have fought a yoars-long legal battlo to got it baek. 
Ti···IE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, October 27, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
The lndqJendnlt, Daily NewspaptT Serving Notre Dame 1md Sai11t Mary's 

Less like a ball 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 
(57 4) 631 ~5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration-of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 1-4000) i:. published Monday !luough Friday except during exam and vacation period~. A .~ubscripdon to The Ob~t:rvcr is $100 for one academic year; $55 for one semcsler. 
The Observer is publi5hed at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addres..~ corrections tn: 
None Dame, IN 46556-0n9 Tht· Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Bux 779 
Jnd :tdditionalmailing otflccs. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nunc Darne, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member uf the Ao;suciatcd Press. AI! rcprnducdon rights arc reserved. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Megan O'Neil Bobby Griffin Joe Piarulli Kyle Cassily 
Alicia Conley Fran Tolan Viewpoint Scene Joey King Liz Byrum 
Graphics Graham Ebetsch 

In "The Big Sleep," Humphrey Bogart says of one particularly flirtations char­acter that "she tried to sit on my lap while I was standing up." It's a classic line from a time in Hollywood's history when the writing was the special effects, but these days the comic absurdity of the image is under­mined by the fact that Bogart's line could serve as a fair­ly literal description of the sort of thing that goes on in dance clubs across the country. 
In modern dance, as in modern music, skill matters, but attitude matters far more. It's true that some people lack the coordination and sense of rhythm need­ed to impress on the dance floor, but it's also true that the level of ability required is actually rather minimal. The secret of modern dancing is that it's less about what you do with your body and more about what you do with your face; the real trick is to adopt a facial expres­sion that effectively conveys the impres­sion that you actually want to be there on the dance floor and not one that sug­gests you would rather be undergoing root canal surgery with a dentist who views his craft as an improvisational art. 
A popular variation on this ruse is ironical dancing, which requires adopt­ing some of the more outlandish dance moves in a way that puts them in quota­tion marks. This requires a lot of know­ing looks and nods (in order to confirm that those around you have noticed the quotation marks) and while effective in the short term, ironical dancing is not really sustainable, and after a few songs most ironists will usually retreat to the bar. 
Of course there are some people who actually do want to be on the dance floor. For reasons I don't pretend to 

Peter Wicks 
Englishman 
Abroad 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
understand, most of them are women. It could be because women have a natural advantage with this sort of thing. To look like a natural on the dance floor it helps to move in a sensuous way that suggests that the song's rhythms con­nect with you at a primal level. When men do that, it just looks creepy. 
What is clear is that less people actu­ally enjoy dancing than pretend to. If that were not the case, then dance clubs would not sell alcohol in anything remotely approaching the oceanic quan­tities that they actually do (which means that the business model of the average dance club depends upon its being less fun than it's supposed to be}. 
You don't need to be a particularly insightful student of human nature to realize that people who are actually enjoying themselves don't typically drink themselves into oblivion. A dance club is a temple dedicated to fun, but an awful lot of the people inside are just going through the motions. 
Modern dance is a fundamentally soli­tary activity. This isn't immediately obvi­ous, because there is a lot of conspicu­ous pairing up that takes place on the dance floor. Experienced clubbers can even tell from the DJs choiee of song when the night's festivities are drawing to a close, allowing those attuned to such signals to know that if they have not yet found someone with whom to bump and grind, then the time may have come to revise their selection crite­ria. 
But even when men and women dance together in a club, there are no forms to be followed. The closest analogue in nature is the unceremonious dance that dogs in season have been performing with table legs, if not for as long as there have been dogs, then at least for as long as there have been tables. 
Add to all this the undisputed fact that everyone over 30 looks ridiculous as soon as they set foot within a dance club, and it is hardly surprising that there is a quiet but significant revival of a range of traditional modes of dancing, frmn a variety of ballroom styles to salsa and swing. These are, of course, very different, but their differences are in a way less important than the fact that they all involve cooperation, requiring a partner who knows the steps. 

Salsa and the tango are obviously very sexual styles, although their sexual charge depends on limits and bound­aries, which is why their charm is lost on those who cannot tell the difference between flirtation and seduction. But all dances that require a partner are sexu­al in the sense that they register the sex of the participants. 
The phrase "friends plus benefits," while often employed by those who take immense pride in their laissez faire atti­tude to the sex lives of others, still cap­tures the altogether too cool rationality of the arrangement it names. But if we think that the problem with such rela­tionships would be fixed by adopting a formula along the lines of "friends plus benefits plus commitment" then we are still thinking along lines that are too rationalist. 
There are permanent mysteries in the relations between the sexes. In the '80s, this was the subject of stand-up comedy routines, in the '90s of self-help manu­als, but dancing is one way in which, since time immemorial, these mysteries have been not explained, but formally acknowledged. 
In "Pride and Prejudice," Miss Bingley asks, "Would not conversation be much more rational than dancing?" To which Mr. Bingley replies, correctly, "Much more rational, but much less like a ball." 
Peter Wzcks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. Some ofhis field notes from his time spent as an Englishman at Notre Dame are featured in the most recent edition ofthe Notre Dame Magazine. Peter can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 
Are you planning on getting men's basket~all tickets? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


ISubmit aLetter 
i tothe Editor at 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If a man insisted always on being · 
serious, and never allowed himself a bit of fun and relaxation, he would go mad or become unstable without knowing il." 
Herodotus Greek historian 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 27, 2005 page 13 
Halloween: who do you want to 'be?' 
Still thinking about llalloween? Snarehing for that porfnet costume and wond11ring who you should "bn" for thn big day? At thn risk of' all of' you n-mail­ing to tellmn "you'rn no fun!" (lloy, I 
have four kids; I lwar  
that every day. so  Kate Barrett  
don't evPn think it'll  
hotfwr me), I ol'f'er a  FailhPoinl  
fpw suggnstions for  

thos1~ still looking for an idnntity to assunw. 
First. pick somebody you ran be proud of. In other words, do you n~ally want to be Lindsey l.ohan or Hussnll Crown l'or thn day (or night)? l>o you nvnn want to hncomn l~lvis or Elvira or sonw ovor­siznd inanimate ohjn1·.t Owad-to-too Tootsin Holl eostumns are available on­linn for thosn who answ11r "yns")'? Here's my "comos-from-a-mom" advien: at !Past tak11 a littlP time on I Iallown1111 to figurl' out who your heroes are, to won­dPr about who you'd rnally lik1~ to "b11." 
Along thost1 lines. simply look ahead to tlw day af'LPr I IallowPnn: All Saints' Day. 
Considnr St. Vincent d11 Paul. Whil11 a young priest, hn happerwd to bn on a boat sailing to his homn country of' France, and piratns captured the boat, taking as prisorwrs Hvnryorw on it. Fathnr Vinennt spnnt the next sevnral ynars as a slavn in northern Africa. llo eonvnrtnd his slavo-ownnr, a farmer, to Christianity, and thn two of thnm nscaped baek to Franee, whnre Vincent raised nwnny l'or tho poor. set up shel­tnrs, organized the wealthy to usn their ridws to hnlp tlw homp,Jnss and startnd homes and orphanages for abandorwd babins. lin also never forgot what it l'olt likn to livn in slavnry and raisnd monny to buy morn than a thousand slaves and bring them back to fmc lives in Europe. The world now rnmembers St. Vinennt dn Paul l'or his earn and 1n1-1rcy toward the sul'fnring poor. 
If you fool thn urgn to return to your childhood prine1~ss eostunws, you may want to know about St. Elizabnth of' llungary. Elizabeth had it all ... whatnv­nr "it all" was in thn 13th eentury, any­way. As a princess, and theq a queen, she still knew that wealth and splendor eould not satisfy her or create a mean­ingf'ullil'o. She Jpf't hnr mountaintop eas­tln so oft1~n to earn f'or thn siek and tho poor of' her kingdom that they began to come up to the castle themselves, know­ing she would not turn them away. Elizabeth dP.cn-1ed that a hospital and an orphanage b11 built in a more convnninnt location f'or her pnople, and she spnnt nearly all her time thorn. Shn ultimatnly built a hospital dedicatnd to caring f'or thosn with thn most dreaded disoasns, sueh as lnprosy <tnd thn plague. It's amazing to notn that Elizabeth accom­plishnd all this bel'orn her death at the age ol' 24. 
Or p1-1rhaps you muld go as St. Jnrome! Think "eavn-chie," circa A.D. 
400. Simple robes arn linn. and il' you don't get a shownr l'or a l'nw days (or wenks) bel'orn the big party, that's okay too. lkl'ore you reeydn all those dral'ts of' your last rnsnareh papnr. save tlwm l'or your costumn: Jeromn spnnt liftnnn ynars of' his adult lil'o translating tho Biblf1 into Latin. tl111 "languagn of' the Church" at the timn. Though Italian. Jerome lived in a eave near Bnthlehnm during these years. belinving that being doser to thn placns whore Moses, David and Jesus had walked and livnd would help him do a bntter job. Surroundnd by andnnt books, an oil lamp l'or light, piles of' papyrus paper and a hand carved pen for dipping in ink, Jeromn would rnad tho llnbrnw of' tho Old Testament or tho (;ronk of' thn Nnw, and thon slowly. painstakingly, think about and record what Latin words would stay trun to thn original meaning of the text. I lis crucial eiTorts allowed thn Coml Nnws of' the Bibln to sprnad l'ar and wide. 

Thnsn thrno I'Hprnsnnt a morn sliver of tho herons who 1:an hnlp us ligun~ out what's important and how wn can g11t thnrn, .lwroes of our past recognized by the Church and thosn who liv11 around us today. Saints-and all holy p1Hlpln­show us that'God is real and that wn can draw stn~ngth l'rom llim and from tlwir nxampln to put God and llis will first in our lives. Perhaps you will lw, or are already, a hero l'or som11orw l'lsn. 
Spnnd a little time asking yourself. as IIallownen approadws, who do you want to be? 
Kate /Jarrell is the !Jirector r~f Hesources 8t ."ipecial Projects ,/()r Campus AJinistry..'·ihe can be reached at Barrett.2H@nd.edu 
The lliews expressed in this column are those oftlze author and nol neces­sarily those ofThe Obserller. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Great respect for great fans 
Onn of tlw many reasons l'vn always bnnn a Notrn Damn fan is bneausn we trPat opposing fans with fi1Sp1~ct on the road and, most importantly, at honw. While attending Notre Damn in tlw Parly 1990s, I had opportunity to visit sevoral football stadiums across thp, country. Tlw Supnr Dome in New Orl11ans, tho Colton Bowl in Dallas, West Lafayette, thn Big llouso. SoldiPr FiPid (Northwestern), lloinz FiPld and Spartan Stadium to name a l'ew. for tlw most part, tlwy wern great nxpnrienens, but soml'times tho opposing fans wore ovPrly hostil11 (throwing food, swe·aring at women and children, Catholic-bashing), thus tarnish­ing tlw IWI'nt. 
Thnn tlwrn arl' Tenrwss!H1 l'ans. 
l.ast year my frieruls and I had tho opportu­nity Lo visit Knoxville, T11nn., and wateh tlw Irish upset Lhn Vols in Neyland Stadium. From tlw moment we arrivml in Knoxvilln, wn worn trPatPd likn f'riPnds by tho Tnnnnssoo l'ans. You eouldn't Witlk live minutes without sonw­llllP saying "W1dcome to Knoxville" or "Thanks f'or playing Tomwss111~." I was stunned by the hospitality. As the game was ending and Tennessne was sure to lose, sever­al Tennessee fans shook my hand as they wnre leaving the stadium, having the elass to say, "Thanks for eoming to Tennessee. It was a groat game." At the Big House, they would whistle at your wil'e and eall the Pope a heretic. Not only is watching a game in NHyland Stadium an awesome experience, but tho courtp,sy of the fans made it an exception­al nxpnriencfJ. 
Tennessee fans are like Notre Dame fans­they lovn their toam. and they lovp, coiiHge football. Like us, they are truly lirst-elass fans. Next weeknnd. I'm sure we'll show them the same class and hospitality that they gra­ciously bHstowed upon us. After all, they may need it aftp,r Coach Weis and the guys rack up 50 points for another Fighting Irish victory. 
Rob Letherman alumnus Class of 1993 Oct. 26 

Maintaining perspective 
In his letter criticizing Mark Hoche's now l'arnous New York Times op-ed piece, Anthony Lauinger chose to quote and focus upon a passage of' only 38 words. Thren Notre Damn faculty members (Kommers, llahn and McKenna) havn separately taken Lauinger to task l'or being unfair. They do not SIHHll inclirwd to dnfnnd the passage, but S1wm to adopt tlw attitude that a mern dean of.a prominnnt college of arts and lottnrs in a very high-pro111e essay should be accorded thn eourlnsy of having at lnast that many ill­dwsPn words disregarded as inconsistent with the ov11rall thenw of' his nssay. 
l.auing1!r's ailies choose not to quotn any of Lauinger's essay, nxcept l'or the hnadlinn appearing abovn it (In my oxpnrienee, including in tlw writing of this lntt.nr, head­lirws an! written by rwwspaper nditors). Thus, rnadNs arn left wondering just what words of' Lauinger nwrit the ratlwr harsh judgments of his erities. lin "totally misun­dnrstood" (Komnwrs). "Any cogent appnal that grows out of a sense of passion. l:onvie­tion, insight. fairness and infornwd reason deservns respect and evaluation. Most unfor­tunately Lauinger's effort fell short of this standard" (IIahn). "What Lauinger engages in is a quintessential example of' a general and troublesome development in our coun­
try. It is a virus that has infected our civil: and political discourse" (llahn). It "must be deseribed as a devious and inappropriate rhetorical strategy" (McKenna). It shows "to what extremes of' misrnpresentation the lot­tnr writer is willing to go" (McKenna). It "eonstitutes a tastelnss effort and subvHrts thn proper gesturns of' mourning" (MeKenna). 
Does it not occur to Kommers, Hahn and MeKnnna that, just as they think that Lauinger was being unfair to Hoche, other readers. with arguably morn justilieation, might think that they are being unfair to Lauingnr? 
James Rakowski associate professor Economics and Policy Smdies Ocr. 26 

Remembering Rosa Parks 
This wnek marks the passing of' a great individual. a humble yHt bold human being. After a long lil'n of' nncountnring and ovnr­eoming struggle. Hosa Lee Parks, "Mother of the Civil Bights Movement," passed away to lay in the arms of' hnr llnawnly FathHr. The lil'e or this woman spokP to thH inner ynarning of every human b1-1ing to be free -to oxperience lil'o fully, wholly. as the creation God has called us to be. Bntween both TuskP.gen and Montgomery, Ala., Parks grnw up in a world eovt~rnd by thn blankets or racism, discrimination and segmgation. In tfw hPart or thp, Deep South. Parks, like IWHryonl~ around her. had the choiee to eith!1r accPpt her circumstances or stPp out on faith, believing, like other African-Americans, that "a change is gonna comn." On Dee. I, 1955, she made her decision ol'lieial. I'm surn you're aware of the story, but know that lwr sitting was indnnd a statement to actually stand. She dncidnd to stand for truth with a humble confidence in the fact that if' no onp, nlsn stood with her, she had God Almighty on hnr side. Parks l'nlt that lwr statP­ment was much more important than anything Man could do to h1-1r. 
Today. I stand in rnverence of tlw boldness of' lwr action and indeed thn entire life that she led standing up l'or human dignity, justice and common good. Thnsn arn univnrsal principles that every man, woman, boy and girl ynarns f'or in thoir innnr snlvns. We can all take away inspiration and a <'all to aetion l'rom thn life or Parks. It's not a "blaek thing;" it's a human thing. As (~andhi taught, we must be the change wn want to see in tlw world. Sometimes it doesn't take a grand act or a big senrw to makn a change. In the words of' Nelson Mandnla, "As we lnt our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we are lib1~rated l'rom mu· l'ears, our prP.SIHH:n automatically libPrates others." Go ahead, free yourS(!II'. 
Krystal Hardy junior Cavanaugh Oct. 26 

Want to be acolumnist, copy editor or illustrator for Viewpoint? 
E~mail Sarah at Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 14 
Thursday, October 27, 2005 
CD REVIEWS 

Joyful tracks, diverse sound attract listeners 
O.A.R. moves into mainstream with new album 
O.A.R. started as a fraternity band at Ohio State. Since, they have grown in popularity and released their sixth album, "Stories of a Stranger," on Oct. 4. 
By COURTNEY WILSON 
Scene Critic 
O.A.R., short for "Of A Revolution," has held the attention of college stu­dents nation wide since the late 1990s, but with the release of "Stories of a Stranger," they are bringing a new vibe to their music, which is sure to make an impression on new listeners. This is the band's seventh album, but only their l'irth produced in studio, since it was only a couple of years ago that they moved from Atlantic Records to Lava Hecords. 
Perhaps their largest introduction to the college scene came from the popu­larity of the "Any Time Now" two-disc CD that has been playing at Hollister and Co. stores across the country. Now, bringing their longtime followers along with them, the group will.delve into the mainstream with "Stories of a Stranger." 
The new album shifts away from Together, their


Recommended tracks: 'Heard the World/ 'Love and 
soulful melodies
Memories/'Stranger' and 'Daylight the Dog' 
and sultry rhythms extend 
O.A.R. 's typically sporadic, reggae-like jam sessions to a more organized mix of pop/rock alternative, which might just prove to be a perfect lit. For long-time 
O.A.H. fans, the reaction to the latest album may come as a bit of a shock, and possibly even initial disappoint­ment. "Stories of a Stranger" reflects a new maturity that the band was bound to take on the road to expanding their audience. While the group has been gaining limited popularity over the years, the release of this new album gives them the opportunity to introduce their music to a much larger group of casual alternative listeners. 
If a listener likes one song on the new CD, they will probably like them all. There really is not one bad song on the disc. The new album allows every mem­ber to shine in a way that has not been heard before. 
At the album's start, it is obvious that the group has strengthened and honed their sound for the ultimate acoustic 
experience. 
Bassist Benj Gershman and drummer Chris Culos deliver head bobbing beats while gui­tar parts from Hichard On and the always sexy sound of Jerry DiPizzo's saxo­phone put Marc Roberge's vocals to speed. 

By MICHAEL FRENCH 
Scene Critic 
The standard guitar-bass-drums for­m uta by no means applies to Architecture in Helsinki. 
In th11 liner notes of the album's packaging, there is a table that lists every instrument the Aussies use in each of their songs -a list that contains an astounding 41 different instru­ments. gadgets and contraptions. 
From the Farfisa Matador Organ on tracks four. eight and 12 to the hand and power tools featured on tracks sfwen and nine, the array of noises cre­ated by the myriad instruments would, in most cases, lead the album to be uncomprehendingly muddled and inac­cessible. 
Arter the first spin, this is certainly the impression "In Case We Die" leaves on the listener. Each successive listen. however. proves to be more and more rewarding, and after having listened to the album dozens of times, it is without a doubt one of the l'inest albums of 2005, in spite of its quirky structure and scatterbrained orchestration. 

In their second full-length release, the eight-member Arch.iteeture in Helsinki has managed to completely fuse its individual parts into a cohesive unit. While it's almost impossible to pinpoint their sound and categorize it alongside other bands, the dozen tracks form an album that is irre­sistibly up-beat. catchy and -for lack of a better word -joyful. 
Architecture in Helsinki constructs nearly every song with transformations and shifts in sound, pace and tone. The title track, "In Case We Die (Parts 1­4)," best exemplifies this style that has been described by detractors as impa­tient and spastic. This song goes through four permutations within the constraints of a standard three-and-a­half minute pop song. Starting out with the breezy lament of a stressed-out. fed-up lover, it almost instantaneously 
morphs into four lines of seeming­ly desperate pleas. From here, the song digresses into an anthemic, cele­bratory chorus before delving back· into the self-loathing and despair of a relationship grown cold. 
at most, the outstanding lyrical crafts­manship of each track permeates every bit of the album's 40 minutes. The rhyme and alliteration in lines such as "And I won't let you steer I comman­deer the atmosphere I since you sug­gested running away" and "Should we chance our arms alarms set for high noon I until the shiver in the river is gone" make "Wishbone" one of the highlights of the album. 
"Frenchy, I'm Faking"-in addition to having one of the greatest song titles ever -is probably the most straight­forward song, driven primarily by gui­tar and drums (though let us not neg­lect the rotary tool about a minute and a half into it). 
The heart-achingly sincere and charming "Maybe You Can Owe Me" demonstrates that Architecture in 

courtesy Architecture in Helsinki is an eight-member indie-rock band from Melbourne, Australia. The performances include unique instruments like the glockenspiel. 
Helsinki is much more than a simply gleeful, cheery band with ADD. The honest, direct lyrics, combined with the soft cymbal beat and bass line that build up to a heavier, yet still delicate, crescendo at the end of each verse. 
A band like this one can easily fall into the trap of coming off as inaccessi­ble and saccharine, but they've man­aged to focus their energies to create something of an epic album that's at the same time sonically jovial and lyri­cally heartbreaking. 
If one listen doesn't quite do it, each successive spin will open up the world of Architecture in Helsinki, and that's something everyone can and should enjoy. 
Contact Michael French at mfrench 1 @nd.edu 
While the
Recommended tracks: 'In Case We Die (Parts 1-4),' 
album refuses to 
'Frenchy, I'm Faking' and 'Maybe You Can Owe Me' sit still for more than 90 seconds 

through every track on the CD. 
And if its lyrics the listener wants to enjoy, theirs are top quality. While their old songs drew more along the theme of random college life, these new songs are more applicable to life in general. It is obvious that Roberge is transitioning his songs to more focused lyrics that should appeal to more relaxed radio listeners, rather than former college jam crowds. It is all for the better as the group matures without putting a damper on the young creativity which gave them their start. 
"Heard the World," "Love and Memories" and "Daylight the Dog" rep­resent the group's new curiosity. They are full of guitar and hungry lyrics more reminiscent of pop alternative radio hits. "The Stranger," a quieter song with light hearted lyrics and female back up vocals, is the furthest song from tradi­tional O.A.R., coming off a little cheesy at first. 

"One Shot" and "Program Director" re!lect their steadfast commitment to lighthearted reggae. Loyal O.A.R. fans will definitely enjoy "Wonderful Day" and "Lay Down" the most, as they stray the furthest from their originally upbeat island-like style and are easily the best tracks on the entire album. 
While "Stories of a Stranger" may not be quite what is expected from O.A.R.'s former "island vibe roots rock," it is still the best album they have put out so far. Expect to hear a lot more from this group, as they will surely be moving their way into the mainstream this year. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, October 27, 2005 page 15 

CD REVIEWS 
Former Phish 'phrontman' plays new style 
By BOB COSTA 
Scene C:ri1ir 
FPar not. l'hish fans, Twy Anastasio is hark. Tlu~ dPxterous guitarist with tlw shaggy r«~d hair is still tlw same old Troy who pack«'d arenas for over 20 yoars as !Pad guitarist and vor.alist of tho smninal ror.k band l'hish. 
On the rww studio album "Shin«'," Anastasio's lirst full-length studio PfTort as a solo artist sirH~P disbanding l'hish in 2004. the popular fornwr "phrontman" aptly balarH~PS tlJP eXpPdat.ions of boing jam-nation's h«'ro with lwing a roc~k star who doesn't want to aliPnate new musie fans who may not havP nvor hoard a l'hish song. "Shine" showcases Anastasio's own craggy jam-rock per­sona at its lwst. with multi-laynrc~d sonic slruC'tures and mercurial songwriting that pushPs thP songs to an almost Top 40 accessibility without compromising t.lw esoteric~ nature or his din-hard fans. This is easily the most listenable Anastasio studio projec:t sincc1 l'hish's 
IIJ<)(, masterpiece "Billy Breathes." 
Although Anastasio's album is an engaging and smoothly produced rPlcmso, it isn't adult contemporary rock drivel. Phish fans may have hoped that Anastasio would rc~lease a record of long. trippy jams, but on "Shinn," he focuses on doing just thn opposito. By constructing an album that fcmturns the tightest songwriting and guitar playing of his long career, Anastasio has been able~ to eschew Ph ish's singular style by making a balanced record that is morn about the songwriting than tho compli­cated ri!'fs and melodies for which J>hish was famous. 
All guitar parts and lead vocals on "Shine" are by Anastasio himself, who, for the first limo on any of his albums (including the Phish catalog) is the rncord's sole lyricist. Still, Anastasio speaks to his fans whom he knows may have bonn nxpericmdng Phish withdraw­al (there is no such thing as a casual l'hish fan) on "Wlwrovor You Find It," one of the album's best songs, singing seemingly on how music lives on, regardless or whether bands do. 
On previous studio efl'orts with Phish, Anastasio seemed to be indulging in exploring incessant studio noodle ses­sions; many songs lacked clarity and understanding, at least to those outside of Anastasio's inner cirele. The new release gives Anastasio the ability to showcase his abilities as a solo rock artist. lie strays from becoming too "out 
there" and jam­
band oriented, as he did on the
TREY ANASTASIO ;JJINE
Shine 

orchestral and mostly instru­mental short record "Seis De
Trey Anastacio 

Mayo" last year. The elimination
Sony 

of the excess ulterior sound, which was often so prevalent in 
•••••L_______J 
Phish's music, diminishes the
Rccmnmcndt'd tracks: 'Love is Freedom,' 'Air Said to 
sheer range of 
Me,"Black,"Invisible' and 'Come as Melody' the album, but lots Anastasio 
paint a unique pieturn for each song. 
On "Black," Anastasio provides numnr­ous guitar fills that during Phish times would have been provided by l'hish key­boardist Page McConnell or drummer Jon Fishman. Thus, the album evolves as a guitar-centric pop album that holds more in common with Dave Matthews Band's friendly chord progressions than Frank Zappa or The Dead. The influence of Matthews is quite evident. and "Shinn" is a kindred spirit with Matthews' first solo ell'ort, "Some Devil," from 2003. The two even toured togeth­er after that rncord was released as part of the "Dave Matthews & Friends" super group also featuring Tim Heynolds and Brady Blade. 
"Air Said To Me" is a tune that rea­turns frazzled and frantic guitar rhythms that are so tightly wound it feels like Anastasio is untwisting the melody as it quickly swirls along. Anastasio's use of down-tempo and up-tl~mpo vocal dynam­ics lend the track a semblance of Bob Segor-like bombast, furthering the album's somewhat retro persona. By the time you reach this track, you'll start to 


Las Vegas band's debut disc both creative, clever 
By MICHELE JEFFERS 
Sn·m· Critk 
l.as Vegas nativns l'anid At the Disco look a hugP garnhln wlwn thny dncidnd to throw tlwmsniVI's eornplc>tnly into tlwir hand artnr high sC'hool. 
Byan Hoss, SpPnccH' Smith. Brnndon Uric~ and Bn•nt Wilson hit tlw jackpot wlu•n tlwir music caught thP attnntion of I'Ptn Wentz from Fall Out Boy. Fall Out Boy (who has rl'c~ontly gainod notorinty for the hit-single~ "Sugar. Wo're going down") brought Panic! At tho Disco to tlw indP(wndnn t label Ftwlnd by Hamon Hecord, on which tlw band recnntly rnlnasnd its dobut album, "A F!wc~r You Can't Swnat Out." 
Whon !'irst listnning to l'anid At the Disco, tlw band sounds obnoxiously simi­lar to Fall Out Boy. Thn load singers have rwarly idcmtical voices and both bands have a pc>nchant for titling their songs with rambling allusions. llowever, as the hand assc>rts in its song "The Only Diffnrence Betwoen Martyrdom and Suicide is Press Coverage~ ... Panie!_ At the Disco "swnarlsl to shake it up. if you swear to listc>n." 
The band took deliberatn measums in order to avoid making an album !illnd with songs all sounding tho same. They wrote half the songs separately, and as a result, tho !'irst half is quite di!Terent from tlw second. 
The former contains upbeat tracks laced with electronic danco beats. The band introduces itself and its philosophy through the first few songs. Panic! At the 
Disco recognizes 

the danger of boing swept up by
AFeverYou 

fans and the media as copies of
Can't Sweat Out 
successful bands like Fall Out Boy
Panic! At the Disco 

and My Chemical Homance.
Decay Dance 

In "London Beckoned Songs /\bout Monciy Written By Machines," the band elaims that it
l~ccommmded tracks: 'London Beckons Songs About 
is "just a wet dream for the web-zines;" how-
Money Written By Machines' and 'Intermission' 
ever. Panic! At the Disco refuses to be more then an empty sensation by back­ing their music up with "more than good hooks." 
Thn album reaches a sarcastic fervor with "Lying is the Most Fun a Girl Can Have Without Taking ller Clothes Ort"' (an allusion to a Natalie Portman line in the movie "Closer"). The album catches the listener ofT guard with the abrupt appearance of the intermission. This track features a flashy techno dance beat that brings an unwelcome 11ashback to the horrors or prom. 
One should not reach for the glow sticks too quickly, however, because piano keys abruptly replace the techno beats. This transition signifies the direc­tion the second half of the album will take. 

think that Anastasio is morn like Neil · Young at heart than .Jerry Garda. 
On "Love Is Froedorn," Anastasio 
strums his acoustic guitar in way that is 
reminiscent of Phish's lwautiful ballad 
"Wasto." But the song doosn't drag on 
like some other Phish songs; it pan~s 
itsolf and changos directions at almost 
nvnry new measure. Each new drum roll 
segues into sizzling guitar solos that 
nncompass tho chorus and mnpower it. 
Again. Anastasio's guitar is at the centPr 
of self-expression on this tunn, but the 
vocals are surprisingly strong. 
"Shine" is an earnost album of person­
al growth, hoaling and the jam commu­
nity's changing nature. Will it bn disap­
pointing to Phish fans who lovo tlw rau­
cous and interpretive live recordings 
that band produced constantly for over 
twenty years? Yes. 
But, at the samo tirno, it onables 
Anastasio to finally be apprndated as a 
serious rock songwriter and not just 
some electric guitar whiz leading the 
hippie nHLSSeS. 
Contact Bob Costa at bcostal@nd.edu 

Instnad of fnaturing synthesiznrs and olectronie drum bnats, l.hn lattnr tracks feature accordions, horns and cellos. The band exhibits a Ska sensibility in "Thnre's a c;ood Bcmson Thnso Tables i\rn Numbored llonny. You Just llaven't Thought of it Yet." 
Panie! At the Disco brings a unique eombination of creativity and cleverness to the table with its debirt. Although tlw band can initially appear a bit generic, thorn is morn than meets tho oar in this gem of an album. The band is c~urrnntly touring this fall on the Nintnndo Fusion Tour alongsidn Fall Out Boy. The Starting Line, Motion City Soundtrack and Boys Night Out. 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 27, 2005 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Hokies and Eagles will focus on ground game 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. -The behemoths are coming to Blacksburg. 
That's about the way the Virginia Tech Hokies size up Thursday night's game against No. 13 Boston College. The Eagles are huge, and they can run. 
Of course, the third-ranked Hokies are big and fast. too ­and they plan to run right at BC. 
"We're taking the whole thing -their line and that defense ­as a challenge," right guard Jason Murphy said. "We're going to do what Virginia Tech ·· does. We're going to pound the ball at them. If it breaks, it breaks." 
The Hokies (7 -0. 4-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) have won 10 consecutive Thursday night games, their only Thursday night loss coming against the Eagles in 1995. 
That was the year their pro­gram took a major step forward in prominence, going to the Sugar Bowl and beating Texas, so they know Boston College can be formidable. 
The Eagles I6-1, 3-1) will arrive having won 13 of 16 on the road. Five of those victories came against ranked teams, including the_ No. 12 llokies in 2003. 
But this Virginia Tech team is different from that one, Hokies senior defensive tackle Jonathan Lewis said, having learned from three straight sea­son-ending swoons. 
"In the beginning, we had tremendous successes in all types of things," Lewis said. "Rushing averages, how many rushing yards given up, how many touchdowns given up. And then we kind of fell. I think we learned that lesson about getting our heads too big." 
Last year, that lesson allowed Virginia Tech to surprise the league in its debut season, win­ning the conference title· after being picked sixth. 
This year, it's all about keep­ing the momentum going. 
"Whatever they come at us with, we're going to take care of it," Murphy said. 
To Eagles coach Tom O'Brien, very familiar with the Hokies from eight years in the Big East together and 16 before that as an assistant at Virginia, the Hokies' formula for success hasn't changed much in 19 sea­sons under coach Frank Beamer. 
Boston College's formula, meantime, includes either ignoring the venue or using the passion of opposing fans to get just as juiced by noise as the home team. 

"I think they just like to play football," O'Brien said of the Eagles, whose road victories this season came at BYU and Clemson. "We get great crowds on the road. They're enthusias­tic, they're loud from start to finish. 
"I think our players respond a lot to the enthusiasm a great crowd brings. When you go into a Clemson, you go into a Blacksburg, it's hard not to be excited to play." 
It helps to show up with an offensive line that averages 6­foot-6 and almost 316 pounds, or a defense that limited No. 10 Florida State to 13 rushing yards. 
No problem, 1-lokies tailback Cedric Humes said. Humes will return to the lineup only 19 days after breaking a bone in his arm in a victory against Marshall. 
"We're up for any team," he said. "We have a lot of speed on our team now." 
Our line's been blocking great, so I don't think their size will be too much of a problem." 
OLYMPICS 

IOC seeks moratorium on Italian doping law 
Associated Press about being strip-searched, fined after police raided their per. sinee the host city contract was too? hotel rooms during the 2001 Peseante should have some signed nearly seven years ago. 
Lucky for Rafael Palmeiro he That's conceivably what could Giro d'ltalia and found syringes pull because he is also the The onus of resolving the issue doesn't play baseball in Italy. If happen in February when the containing insulin and steroids. Italian government's supervisor is in the hands of the games' he did, he might be spending International Olympic In fact, the idea of skiers and for the Turin games. organizers." the offseason in jail instead of Committee holds its winter car­skaters being led away in hand­But so far the Italians aren't Funny thing is, this is the at home. nival in the northern Italian city cuffs or police raiding the budging. same roc that, along with the 
The same goes for Jason of Turin. Olympic Village worries the IOC That's likely to get the Turin World Anti-Doping Association, Giambi. In the past, all Olympic ath­so much that it has lobbied the folks a scolding from the IOC has .touted itself as both the All the sorrys in the world letes had to worry about was· Italian government -unsuc­when it meets Friday in authority and the ultimate might not have spared him from losing a medal or being sus­cessfully so far -to impose a Switzerland to discuss the hardliner on the use of drugs in 
'· the slammer. pended if they tested positive to moratorium on the law and let upcoming games. The IOC con­sports. The Italians take their drug performance-enhancing drugs. it police the games itself. tends Italian organizers have WADA chief Dick Pound has testing seriously -so seriously That changes in Turin, where "You think American profes­promised all along that the law mocked baseball for its testing that some athletes may start they could face jail time under a sional hockey players, paid in would be suspended for the program and called for thinking twice about going to strict Italian law that makes the millions, will risk being put Olympics. American sports leagues to Turin in a few months for the doping a criminal act. in handcuffs to come play in "This is not a new issue," IOC adopt the doping agency's strict Winter Olympics. And it's not just talk. Recently, Turin? Come on, let's be realis­spokeswoman Giselle Davies system, which includes unan­Think being stripped of a some cyclists were given sus­tic," IOC member Mario said. nounced screenings during the medal is embarrassing? How pended prison sentences and Pescante told a Turin newspa-"This has been on the table off-season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Rooms in private home for rent dur- Historic 1830 Greek Revival home  BUY/SELL/TRADE OR SWAP ND  
NOTICES  WANTED  FoR SALE  ing ND football weekends or other ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658.  on the St. Joseph River available for football/alum weekends -just over the Michigan border from  FOOTBALL TIX. 289-8048.  
1-bedroom apt 1-mile from ND in  ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  South Bend in Buchanan. $600­ PERSONAL  
quiet historic neighborhood,  $12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched­ 1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli- Bedrooms includes all utilities, local  850. 3+ bedrooms, barn with"gen­ 
$575/month.  ules around classes, Gain exp. in  ances. $69,900. Call Kim Kollar  phone, washer/dryer, security sys­ tlemens quarters" for cigars, direct  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
customer sales & service,  574-280-8160. CENTURY 21 JIM  tem. $400/student. Office 234-9334,  river frontage. See  not go it alone. If you or someone  
Call 283-0325  Conditions apply, all ages 17 &  DUNFEE  Cell315-2509  http://www. vrbo.com/61848. Call  you love needs confidential support  
older, Call Today 574-273-3835.  ndstudentrentals.com  David at 312 575-0601.  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L  
KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  
FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07  NOW HIRING Have a car? Need  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO CAM- some extra cash? Jimmy John s is  FoR RENT  Bedrooms includes all utilities.local  TICKETS  THE OBSERVER.  
PUS 4 BEDROOMS, UP TO 10  hiring drivers for all shifts. Contact  phone, washer/dryer, security sys- 
BEDROOMS  Chuck at 286-0299.  tem. $400/student. Office 234-9334,  SPRING BREAK-Early Booking  
CALL 315-5032, ASK FOR  GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­ Cell315-2509  WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks ­ 
KRAMER  Ten girls from the Class of 2005  BORHOODS  ndstudentrentals.com  TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570.  $50 Deposit -800-234-7007  
looking for a place within walking  i;!ndersonNDrentals.com  www.endlesssummertours.com  
KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS 1  distance to ND to rent for the  HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED­ FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  
r- SINGLE FAMILY HOME AVAIL•  Tennessee weekend. Call Andrea  YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart- ROOM HOMES.GOOD CONDI­ 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB- Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5  
ABLE 140 N. SHORE BLVD. 3  at 651-308-9285.  ments available for 06-07 school  TION.CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call  SITE FOR$$:  Days from $299! Includes Meals,  
BEDROOMS, 1.5 BATHS GREAT  year. Call today 235-7234.  Sean 532-1895.  www. victorytickets.com  MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun,  
FOR PROFESSORS, STAFF OR  Loving family seeking adoption. Will  Acapulco, Jamaica From $499!  
GRAD STUDENTS  pay med. exp. etc, & give much  BLUE & GOLD HOMES. Best rates  WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT- Campus Reps Needed!  
CALL 315-5032 ASK FOR  love to a baby you bring into the  for weekend, monthly & yearly  ROOM HOMES  BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES.  PromoCode:31 www.springbreak- 
KRAMER  world. Call 269-429-3411.  rentals. 574-250-7653.  MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408  273-3911.  travel.com 1-800-678-6386  

Thursday, October 27, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
WNBA 
Swoopes goes public with her homosexuality 
WNBA star's sexual orientation revealed by ESPN Wednesday 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON -Tlw only thing that outshirws tho oxquisite dia­nwnd on Slwryl Swoopes' lef't ring l'ingt•r is tlw glow on lwr facP as slw discussns tho lovo of lwr lifo. 
It's a lovp that thn WN Bi\ supnrstar has kopt hiddon for 111 o rP than SIWP n yo ars. 0 n Wndrwsday she "quit protend­ing," diselosing that slw is gay and in a commiltPd n•lationship. 
"I fPPI likP l'vP lwnn living a liP," tlw llouston Conwts star said in an intnrvinw with Tlw i\ssoriatPd Pn•ss. ''I'm at a plaeo in my lifP right now wlwro I'm VPry happy, vPry eontt•nt. I'm lin ally OK with tlw idPa of who I low. who I want to hn with." 
SwoopPs said slw currently livPs with hpr· partrwr, i'ornwr ComPts assistant coach /\lisa Srott. 
ThP story was first rPportod in ESPN tlw Magazirw, which hit nPwsstarHIH Wndnnsday. Slw also announcml an PIHlorsnnwnt dPal with Olivia. a loshian cruise linn. 
Swoopns, tlw only WNB/\ play­PI' to win thrnt• MVP trophies, said shn rwvnr had fnnlings for a woman lwforP Seott and didn't undnrstand tlwm when thny lwgan. But in tlw sovnn years 
sinee, sho said shn's been "hurt­ing" whiln hiding her relation­ship. 
Now, Swoopns said, she finally fnels froo. 
Swoopes is a fivn-timo All­Star, three-time Olympie gold medalist and WNB/\ ehani.pion as a member of the Comets, whoso run of four straight titles began when shn was a rookie in 19970 
Whiln piling up aeeoladns and aeeomplishmnnts, the 34-year-, old Swoopes said she drearnnd about tlw day wlwn she could attnnd an awards banquet with Scott on her arm. 
"Wn havo had to eelebrate bPhind dosod doors," slw said. "I don't want to have to hide from tlw world anymorn." 
But that's not to say that sho isn't 1:oncorned about repercus­sions from her admission. She worr·ips about lwr mother Louisn, who has known for fivn yl'ars, hut "doesn't think it's right." 
"Shn'll probably newer aecept it," Swoopns said. "But she's dnaling with it." 
And she is nervous about the n•sponse from her hometown of Brownf'inld, Texas, <,tbout 600 milns northwnst of Houston, whern eotton is king and Swoopns rnigns as queen. 
Not to mnntion what people will think right down the road in Lubboek, whore slw brought Texas Tneh it's only national championship in basketball by scoring 47 points in the f'inal 

INTERDISCIPLINARY CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF BIOCOMPLEXITY 
lJniversity ()f Nf>tre f)ame 


Fubllc L_ecture 
Dr. Alan Perelson Theoretical Division Los Alamos National Laboratory 
New Developments in Modeling the Dynamics of Viral Infections 
Saturday October 29, 2005 -6:30PM I02 DeBartolo HaJJ -·University of Notre Dame 
Abstract: 
I will present a general overview ofthe problem ofn1odeling viral infections in vivo. The point ofview that I will take is that tnodels should be useful for giv­ing insights into the treatn1ent ofhun1an disease. Frotn this perspective, I will discuss two exan1ples: HIV infection and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. I will show how viral dynatnic models can provide insights into both the basic biological processes underlyling infection as well as treatn1ent with drug or vatcine. I will also discuss aspects ofthe imtnune response to these infections. 
openly and honnstly, and applaud Shnryl for lwr eountge." 
Fornwr Minnnsota Lynx playnr Miehnle Van (;orp. who no longer plays in t.lw WNB/\, also eame out whiln an activo playor in July 2004. 
·No man has nvnr eonw out 
whiln still activo in tho major 
leaguns of football, basnball. 
basketball or h01:kny. If an NB/\ 
ever player did, comrnissiorwr 
David Stl•rn said. tlwn~'d only lw 
one question: 
"llow many points? llow many rnbounds'! I think that it's a non-issue." 
Swoopes said lwr news had been wnll recoivml so far. 
"What shn dons in her person­al lifo is hnr own deeision," Conwts coach Van Chancellor said in a releasn. "I rnspnct tworything about Sheryl. how she's handlnd hnrsnlf on and ofl' the eourt. To mo. slw will always be 11110 of thn grnatnst ambassadors for thn gamn of wonwn's baskntball." 
Shn has long rnvnlnd in lwr position as a roln modnl and hopes that parnnts won't dis­courage their children from looking up to lwr bneause slw is gay. ller wish is that her 1~oming out 1:ould lwlp sonwone dnaling with tho samn issue. 
"If a kid out then~ who is struggling with tlwir idnntity can read this artidn and say, 'If she did it I ean dl'al with this,' then this is worth it,'' she said. 
Swoopns said her dedsion had nothing to do with tlui proposPd Texas constitutional amendnumt to ban gay marriagn, which is already illegal in Tnxas. In fad, she didn't know about it until Wedrwsday morning. 
But shn said would like to orw day marry St:ott. 
"i\t sonw point I would lovn for that to happnn," she said. "Hight now I think wn'rn vnry happy with tho rnlationship wP havn. This is t.lw pnrson I plan on !wing with for tlw rnst of my lifn." 
Swoopns was marrind to lwr high school swnPtlu•art and t.lw two havt• an S-vPar-old son. Jordan. Tlwir divorrP in 11)1)1) had nothing to do with lwr l>ning gay, Swoopns said. 
Wlwn contPmplating wlwthl'r to romP out. SwoopPs said thoughts of .Jordan wPrP fol'l•­most in hPr mind. 
game in 1993. 
"I worry about the reaetion throughout the country, but I really worry about Brownfield and Lubbock," she said. "Because they're both small towns and Shnryl Swoopns is a local hero. Now what'? I hopn it doesn't ehange. It's important to me." 
Swoopns is perhaps the high­est profiln team-sport athlntn to eome out and follows two othnr WNBA players. Shortly bnfon~ she retired in 2002, Nnw York Liberty player Sue Wieks became the first aetive WN Bi\ player to open up about her st~x­uality. 
"''m happy f'or Sheryl,'' Wieks said. "I think all pnople dnservn to be able to live their livns 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 27, 2005 
MLB 






Cashman accepts deal to stay with Yankees 
postseason. 
"I don't want to talk about that. That's really personal," Hodriguez said. "I never attach any of my personal relationships with baseball. I am totally responsible for the way I play all the time." 
Rodriguez said that the White Sox have shown during the postseason that they are the best team in the American League. 
"That exhibition of pitching and defense we've been able to see, with timely hitting, just really reminds us of what wins championships, and the White Sox have done a beautiful job," he said. "It reminds me 
New York Yankees general manager Brian Cashman, of the old Yankees team." speaks with Yankees' owner George Steinbrenner. 

AUDITIONS 
NOTRE DAME OPERA 
Monday, October 31, 2005 
I 

3:30-6:ooPM Washington Hall, East Entry 
Opera perfonnances on Aprilz &: 8, 2oo6. Please be prepared to sing one selection Fro1n Jnemory. An acco1npanist will be provided. 
OPEN TO ALL 
FLy FOR FREE NEXT WEEI<! 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to Notre Dame on Tuesday, Nov. I, to take you on trial flights. 
Get in the air. We're looking for a few college students who have Get some information. tile smarts. skills and interest to be a Marine pilot. The flight is on us. 
CoNHCT YouR MARINI: CoRPS Or11crR St:Lf.CliON T1 :\M 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY! 
Capt. Barclay or Gunnery Sgt. Templeton 
765-479-1275 

OSOLAF@MARINES.USMC.MIL 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 


'. MARINEOFFICER.CDM 
1005 

·­
GM inks a three-year contract worth more than $5 million 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -New York Yankees general manager Brian Cashman decided Wednesday to stay with the only team he's ever worked for, accepting a three-year 
contract worth more than $5 million. 
Cashman's current contract expires Oct. 31, and the Yankees cannot announce the new deal until after the World Series, a high­ranking base­ball official said. 
The official spoke on condi­tion of anonymi­
ty because baseball commis­sioner Bud Selig prohibits teams from making major announcements during the Series. The deal with Cashman still has not been finalized, the 
official added. 
With the deci­sions of Cashman and manager Joe Torre to stay with the Yankees, New York can start on its off­season moves next week. 
"Both Brian and Joe did the best job they've ever done in their careers to save our season," 
Yankees third baseman Alex 

York also has a deal that is all­but-finalized with former San Diego and Philadelphia man­ager Larry Bowa, who would become third-base coach. 
Cashman and Yankees gen­eral partner Steve Swindal did not return telephone calls seeking comment, and team spokesman Rick Cerrone said the Yankees had not!Iing to announce. Cashman's accept­ance was first reported by Newsday on its Web site. 
"Both Brian {Cashman] and Joe {Torre] did the best job they've ever done in their careers to save our season. 
Alex Rodriguez Yankees third baseman 
Philadelphia, which is seeking a replacement for general man­ager Ed Wade, had been seen as one of the poten­tial suitors for Cashman. 
G e r r y Hunsicker, who resigned as the 
Houston Astros' general manager
last November, could become a candidate for the 
Phillies' job. 
Rodriguez hit .321 during the regular season with 48 homers and 130 RBis, but bat­ted .133 (2-for-15) in the Yankees' tive-game loss to the Los Angeles Angels in the tirst 
"We have a short memory, but for us to get in the postseason was a miracle. I mean, we were ro games back in late July." 
Alex Rodriguez Yankees third baseman 
round of the AL playoffs. 
"I had a tremendous sea­son and I played poorly against Anaheim, but at the same time, you win as a team, you lose as a team, and I didn't do my part," he said. "I don't have any regrets. I pre­pared. I did all I could as a play-
Rodriguez said before Game 3 of the World Series. "We have a short memory, but for us to get in the postseason was a miracle. I mean, we were 10 games back in late July." 
It appears the Yankees' tirst priority will be to re-sign out­fielder Hideki Matsui, who is eligible for free agency. New 
$ FROM 
Only at allegiantair.com 
Nonstop air service from South Bend. Packages include over 30 of Vegas' most exciting casino-resorts. 

~(lint
a1r 
www.allegiantair.com 
800-432-3810 or call your travel agent. 
er." 

Rodriguez declined to dis­cuss the death of his uncle on Sept. 30. 
His mother, speaking to the Listin newspaper in the Dominican Republic, said the death of the uncle, Augusto Bolivar Navarro, contributed to Rodriguez's poor play in the 
Thursday, October 27, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Vick still waiting for statistics to match talent 
goal he set for 3,000 yards this win games. I understand that,
Falcons quarterback 
snason is but still, I don't want my stats has played mostly in likely unat­
to look bad or not be up to tainable. lie par."
a run-first offense only wishes Given that the Falcons (5-2) he could entered their bye week tied Associated Press claim that with Seattle for the NPC's sec­statistics ond-best winning percentage, 
FLOWEHY BHANCJJ, Ga. -mean noth­Vick was adamant he has no Following his first 300-yard ing to him. plans to lodge a com plaint passing game in 2002, Michael "I'm not with coach Jim Mora or offen­Vick believnd many more going to lie. I sive coordinator Greg Knapp. 
Vlck
would come. do lcarel." Atlanta's run-first offense The Atlanta quartnrback still Viek said Wednesday. "The used a similar approach last has just one, and a personal only stat that counts is if you year in advancing to the con-


GREAT LIFESTYLE 
Turtle Creek Aartments 

Adjacent to Campus! 
Remodeled Apartments Available www.campuscribs.net 
1.866.395.4201 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 



CLOSEST TO CAMPUS 

ference title game, but Vick and No. 1 overall in converting hopes the team can create 44.9 of his carries for first more balance. downs. T.J. Duckett leads tlw 
"There hasn't been a game conference in fewest runs this year where we came out stuffed at the line of scrim­and' everything we watched on mage (one in 45 attempts) film, the team came out and after leading that catngory last played what they showed," year. Viek said. "We always get the "I think that is our identity," different looks. I don't even Vick said. "We run the football know why we watch lilm any­whether it's Warrick, T..l. or more. I mean for real, man." me. That's what makes our 
Looking at ganw go. If numbers post­that's the way ed by Donovan "lm not going to lie. I it's going to be, 
McNabb, Brett as long as we
do /care]. The only stat
Favre, Matt knnp winning 
Hasselbeck and that counts is ifyou and as long as I other quarter­win games./ make my plays backs who run when I have to,
understand that, but 
an offense simi­things arc all 
lar to Atlanta's, still, I don't want my good." 
Vick realizes stats to look bad or not Still, Vick that averaging longs for more
be up to par. " 
just 21.6 pass­chances to con­ing attempts noct with his per game Michael Vlck receivers. lie 
makes 3,000 Falcons quarterback completed just yards impossi­11 of 26 passes ble. for 116 yards 
"I don't know if I can," Vick and a 16.3 passer rating said. "Maybe not, man. My against Nnw York. passing attempts are not After hearing Knapp ravn where thny need to be. I need recently about the team's work to throw the ball 30 to 40 in a hurry-up ol'f'ense, Viek times a game for me to have wondered why the t<~am does­those numbers, but our run n't start a game with a no-hud­game's so good that I won't say dle, two-minute approach that it's hurting me, but I won't would force opponnnts into complain, because it's a lot traditional schenws that don't easier and it takes a lot of mask coverages. pressure off me, too." "Our hurry-up offense and 
Yes, Atlanta our tempo arn has managed to outstanding," improve on a Vick said.
"We run the football 
running game "We've just got 
that led the whether it's Warrick. to use it a little league last year T.J., or me. That's what bit more. I'm for the first pretty sure
makes our offense go.
time in fran­they'll come up 
chise history. If that's the way its with some type 
After rushing going to be, as long as of scheme in for 155 yards in ordnr to get the
we keep winning and 
a 13-point win two-minute 
Monday night .as long as I make my drill or the 
over the New plays when I have to, hurry-up York Jets, offense going.
things are all good. " 
Warrick Dunn Once we start has 732 this doing that and season and Michael Vlck we mature as ranks third in Falcons quarterback an offense, the NFL. man, the sky's 
Vick's daz-the limit." zling ability to elude defenders Knapp, who brought a ver­has helped him rank atop the sion of the West Coast offense NPC with 6.2 yards per carry from San Francisco nearly two 
Rebuilding New Orleans: An Interdisciplinary Discussion 
Thursday, October 27, 2005 
4:00 p.m. until 5:30 p.m. Law School Room 121 
Moderator: Law School Professor Amy Coney Barrett, a New Orleans native 
Forum Participants: Dean Michael Lykoudis, School of Architecture Professor Philip Bess, School of Architecture Professor Alejandro Camacho, Law School Professor Nicole Garnett, Law School Professor John Nagle, Law School Professor Ahsan Kareem, Department of Civil Engineering 
years ago, still believes Viek 's ability to remain calm under pressure will help him develop as a passer. 
"We're from two opposite backgrounds, but whatever's inside of him, from his core growing up, there's a quality I like in that he enjoys the ganw still as a kid," Knapp said. "I think that's important at this ltwel, because at this level the pressures are there. They will always be tlwre, but as long as you s1~e that corn nnjoyment of thn gamn, I think that's impor­tant." 
Vkk, 25, doesn't dnny occa­sional frustrations, but thn two-time Pro Bowl snlnction attributes part of his 30-15-1 career record to relnasing his angor and focusing his energy in a positive way. 
"The last two years, some­times it's been a little diffi­cult," Vick said. "I.ast year I started out in a rww offense, so I kind of expncted things not to go as well, but this year I was expecting a lot on myself. and it looks like I'm not on pace to do what I set my goals at. Wn've got nine gamns left, and there's still room for improvement." 






OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 27, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WlRF SERVICES page 20 
NFL AFC East 

team New England BuHalo Miami N.Y. Jets  record 3·3 3-4 2-4 2-5  perc. .500 .429 .333 .286  PF 133 112 115 92  PA 164 138 128 139  
AFC North  
team Cincinnati Pittsburgh Baltimore Cleveland  record 5·2 4·2 2·4 2·4  perc. .714 .667 .333 .333  PF 168 149 69 78  PA 111 95 100 103  
AFC South  
team Indianapolis Jacksonville Tennessee Houston  record 7·0 4·2 2·5 0·6  perc. 1.000 .667 .286 .000  PF 189 108 136 74  PA 77 101 177 179  
AFC West  
team Denver Kansas City San Diego Oakland  record 5·2 4·2 3·4 2-4  perc. .714 .667 .429 .333  PF 152 149 193 128  PA 131 132 146 133  
NFC East  
team N.Y. Giants Philadelphia Washington Dallas  record 4-2 4·2 4·2 4-3  perc. .667 .667 .667 .571  PF 173 142 135 147  PA 137 118 103 124  
NFC North  
tHam Chicago Detroit Minnesota Green Bay  record 3·3 3·3 2-4 1-5  perc. .500 .500 .333 .167  PF 100 104 90 144  PA 68 106 155 118  
NFC South  
team Tampa Bay Atlanta Carolina New Orleans  record 5·1 5·2 4-2 2-5  perc. .833 .714 .667 .286  PF 116 175 148 119  PA 72 133 136 201  
NFC West  
team  record  perc.  PF  PA  
Seattle St. Louis Arizona San Francisco  5·2 3-4 2-4 1-5  .714 .429 .333 .167  181 134 114 96  127 210 144 212  

Big East Women's Volleyball 
team conference overall pet. 
Louisville 8·0 20·0 1.000 NOTRE DAME 8·0 18·1 .947 Syracuse 7·2 19·7 .731 Villanova 6·2 19·5 .792 Cincinnati 6·2 15·7 .682 Pittsburgh 6·3 13·9 .591 St. John's ·4·4 18·7 .720 Rutgers 4·4 9·12 .429 Marquette 4·5 11·10 .524 Connecticut 2·6 18-12 .455 Seton Hall 2·6 12·12 .500 West Virginia 2·7 14·10 .583 Georgetown 2·7 6·16 .273 DePaul 1·7 4·17 .190 USF 1·8 3-16 ,158 

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Boston College at Virginia Tech 6:30 p.m., ESPN 
PGA PGA Tour: Chrysler Championship 3:00p.m., USA 

NCAA FooTBALL 

Associated Press 
DENVER -Air force coach Fisher DeBerry met the academy's new super­intendent for the first time Wednesday, and found himself being reprimand­ed, but not fired, for state­ments he made about black athletes and recruit­ing. 
The 6 7 -year-old coach, known for his folksy, dis­arming charm and his homespun sayings, found himself in an imbroglio over political correctness for the second time in less than 12 months. 
Last time, it was about religion in the locker room. This time, it was about black football play­ers -or the lack of them -at the academy. 
After his meeting with Lt. Gen. John Regni, DeBerry, who is suffering through a 3-5 season this year, issued an apology at a news conference. 
"I realize the things I said might have been hurt­ful to many people and I want everyone to under­stand that I never intended to offend anyone," DeBerry . said. 
On Tuesday, in dis­cussing last weekend's 48­10 loss to TCU, DeBerry said it was clear TCU "had a lot more Afro-American players than we did and they ran a lot faster than we did." 

"It just seems to me to be that way," he said. "Afro­American kids can run very well. That doesn't mean that Caucasian kids and other descents can't run, but it's very obvious to me that they run extremely well." 
DeBerry first discussed the topic Monday, telling The Gazette of Colorado Springs the academy need­ed to recruit fastp,r players and noting, "you don't see many minority athletes in our program." 
"I have made a mistake and I ask for everyone's forgiveness," he said on Tuesday. 
"I regret these state­ments and I sincerely hope they will not reflect nega­tively toward the academy or our coaches or our players and I thank the administration for the opportunity to make this apology." 
DeBerry said he had no plans on stepping down after this latest public ombarrassment. Nonotholess, Muoh said thn coach would not lose his job. 

IN BRIEF 
Heat owner elected to NBA 
Board of Governors 
NEW YORK -Miami Heat owner Micky Arison was elected chairman of the NBA's Board of Governors on Wednesday, replacing Phoenix Suns CEO Jerry Colangelo . 
''I'm looking forward to an inter­esting period," Arison said. "We have a lot of opportunities obviously for the league and a lot of challenges, and I look forward to working with the league office to help in any way I can." 
Colangelo, who served two two­year terms as chairman, will contin­ue to serve as the Suns' representa­tive on the board and as a member of committees for finance, long­range planning, collective bargaining and player relations. He voluntarily stepped down as chairman to give someone else a chance at the job. 
Arison is the chairman and CEO of Carnival Corporation, the cruise ship company. He took control of the Heat in 1995 and has overseen moves such as the hiring of Pat Riley and the acquisition of Shaquille O'Neal, helping Miami grow into a team con­sidered one of the favorites to win the Eastern Conference this season. Colts' Mathis earns weeklybest defensive player award 
INDIANAPOLIS -Robert Mathis needed 14 plays to make an impres­sion against the Houston Texans last weekend. 
On Wednesday, Mathis, the NFL sacks leader, was rewarded with his first AFC defensive player of the week award. 
"Actually, it caught me off guard," said the soft-spoken Mathis. "They ran the ball a lot, so what can you 
?" Mathis has done more than his share this year, given the limited opportunities he's had. Rarely in for more than 25 plays per game, Mathis leads the NFL with eight sacks and is tied for the team lead with 14 tackles on special teams -an unusual double for a defensive end. Sunday's game at Houston exem­
d0. 

pLil'ied Mathis' disruptive skills. Meyer has not lived up to· 
high expectations so far 
GAINESVILLE, ¥Ia. -When Florida coach Urban Meyer was hired last December, he vowed to tailor the spread offense around the strengths of his players. 
Ten months and two losses later, Meyer acknowledged that the coach­ing staff has done a poor job accom­plishing that task. 
"I don't think we've done a great job of adapting the system to the players," Meyer said. "The job of a coach is to adapt the system. I've always said there really is no sys­tem. You have to adapt to the per­sonnel. I don't believe we've done a great job of that." 
The No. 16 Gators tried to correct the problem during their bye week as they prepared for Saturday's game against No. 4 Georgia in Jacksonville. 
"In this conference, you're not going to roll out 50 points right now," Meyer said. 
Thursday, Ocrober 27, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MLB -WORLD SERIES 

White Sox defeat Astros 1-0, sweep Series 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON -Tlw Chicago WhitP Sox arn World Snrins champions again at last. and y«'l anollwr Ppir stn~ak of futili­ty is not just wipPd away but swPpl away. 
i\l'lnr snvnn sl'.ornlnss innings, .IPrmairw I>yP singiPd honw tlw only run in tlw Pighth. and tlw Wh i tn Sox bP at llw II o us ton i\stros 1-0 WPdnnsday night to win llwir lirst titiP in SX ymtrs. 
.lust a yPar ago, tlw sanw story linP caplivatnd basPhall wlwn tlw long-sul'li•ring Boston Bed Sox swnpt St. Louis to cap­turf' LhPir lirst titln in Xh sea­sons. 
Who's rwxl. tlw Chkago Cubs, without a rhampionship since I«JOX'? 
"ll's unbelievable, unlwliev­ahln," catdwr i\..1. l'inrzynski said. 
ll was Llw third titln for tlw WhitP Sox. following wins in I1JIJ(J and 19 17. And it was the first since "Shoeless" Joe Jackson and tlw "Black Sox" thrnw tlw 1919 Series against Cincinnati. 
In tlw Windy City. whnrn tlw Cu bs ha v n Io n g IH~ 1m ki n g , Chicago's South Sidn team for oru:n trumped its North Side rival. no small feat for tlw Sox. 
Owrwr Jnrry Hninsdorf once said hn'd tradn all six of the Chir.ago Bulls' NB;\ titlns for a singiP SPrins ring. No swap is nPPdNI now: !11~ 's got lhn prizn hn drnanwd of sine~~ lw was a kid growing up in Brooklyn. 
"I hopn this is not a drnarn," lw said, holding lhP trophy undnr his ldt arm lik1~ a kid clutching his first baseball 
glow. 

Whitn Sox manager Ozzie Cuillnn said during the rngular season that lw might rl'tire il' his tnarn went on to win the Snrins, and now lw'll havn to revn;tl that dndsion. lin hintnd al'lnr thn garnn that lw wantnd a nnw !'.ontral'.t. 
"Now I'm going to makl' my rnorwy," hn said playfully, look­ing at Hninsdorf. 
Chicago's sweep, its nighth straight postseason win and Ihth in 17 gamns overall, rnado it only the second tnarn to go through the postsnason 11-1 sincn the extra round of playoll's was added in 11JIJ5, joining the IIJ1JIJ Yanknns. But the White Sox fans didn't get to enjoy a singln cPlebration in pnrson: the division title and all thrnl' rounds ol' thn postseason were won on tho road. 
"I wish wo were in Chicago tonight," Heinsdorl' said. "It's 
surn~al." 

llouston, whkh finally won a pnnnant for thn lirst time since it joinnd thn National League in 11J62, b1H:ame tho first team swopt in its Sorins dobut. 
"They played woll all year long," Astros manager Phil Garnnr said of the White Sox. "They played well against us. Thoy dnservn to be world cham­pions this y1~ar." 
On a night when pitching dorninatnd, winner Froddy Garda and Houston's Brandon Backn pitched shutout ball for snvnn innings. with Backe allowing four hits and Garcia f'iv1~. They each struck out seven. 
Brad Lidge, Houston's closer, carne in to start the eighth, and Chicago sent up Willie llarris to bat for Garcia. 

Harris lined a single to lel't leading off, and that led to Houston's downfall. Scott Podsednik hunted a difficult high pitch in front of the plat!\ and the spoedy llarris took sec­ond on the sacril'ice. Carl Everett pinch hit for Tadahito Iguchi and grounded to second, moving Harris to third. 
Dyo, the Serins MVP, s~ung and rnissml Lidge's next pitch, took a ball, thon groundod a singlo up the middle, clapping his hands as he l1ll't the plate. llarris trotted homo from third, 
and the White Sox celebrated in the third-basn dugout. 
But it wasn't quite over yet. 
ClifT Politte relieved to start the bottom half and hit Willy Taveras on the hand with onn out. Politte bounced a wild pitch on his l'irst offering to Lance Borkman, moving Taveras to second, then intentionally walked Berkman, nearly throw­ing away the next pitch. 
Morgan EnsbPrg flied to right­center, dropping him to 1-for-1 0 with runners in scoring position in the Series, and Chicago brought in left-handor Neal Cotts to face pinch-hitter Jose Vizcaino, who hit a broknn-bat grounder to shortstop. 
Juan Uribo charged in, back­handPd tlw ball by tho grass and threw hard to lirst, beating Vizcaino by half a step. 
Af'tor Chicago wasted a lnad­ofT double by Pinrzynski in tlw ninth, Jason Lane lofted a 3-2 pitch off Bobby Jonks into short ~~nnter for a single leading ofT the bottom hall'. 
Brad Ausmus sacrificed and pinch-hitter Chris Burke foulnd out to Uribo. who fell into tlw ld't-linld seats as ho leanod in to make tho grab. Uribe ran to tlw mound with tho ball and gavn Jenks a slap. 
Orlando Palnwiro tlwn pinch hit. and grounded to Uribe at shortstop for the final out, with Paul Konerko gloving the ball a half-stop before Palrnniro land­ed on tho bag. A postseason f'illnd with umpirns making qunstionabln calls ended with tlwrn gntting it right. 

"It moans a lot not only to us in thn clubhouse but to thn organization. thn fans. thn dty. It's a grnat fooling," Dyn said. "We're just happy to bn ablo to bring a championship to thn city of Chintgo. It's really spndal." 
Chieago players poured out ol' their dugout and junqwd around on the mound. Astros playPrs wPn~ storw-l'acnd, tlwn nunn out to wavn to tlwir fans and throw caps into tlw seats. 
Houston was 0-l'or-1 I with rumwrs in scoring position on thP night and IO-for-4S (.20X) in the SPrins, and thP Astros wnrP shutout for tlw final 15 innings. stranding 1 X runners. 
Jenks got his S!H'.ond savn, whiln l.idge l'nll to 0-2 in thP Snrins and O-:{ in the postsna­sorl. 
Af'tPr Chkago's 14-inning, 7-5 win that lasted a Snri1~s-rneord 5 hours, 41 minutes and nml1~d at I:20 a.m. Wndrwsday, tl11• r.rowd was morn subdtwd al MinutP Maid Park. Tlw fans had to know that no tPa rn has nvPr ovnrromn a :{-0 SPril's dnfirit. 
Chirago strarHI!'d runrwrs in thrPP ol' tlw firs! four innings, including l'odsPdnik al'tl'l' a two-out tripl1~ in lhP third, hut BarkP's l'.hangPup gol strongPr, and lw strurk oul fiw straight ­ono short ol' tlw S!'ril's r1•rord following l>yp's IPadoiT singiP in the fourth. 
I~~~ n~tin•d I I baW•rs irr a row lwl'orn Aaron llowand's two-out singiP in llw snv1•nth. and .loP CrPdn followPd with a drivl' high ofT l.lw out-of-town sror!'­board irr 1111' 11'1'1.-l'iPid fPn!:l'. 
N
N 

Is it you? 
One person makes a difference when the mission of Christ meets the world. 
Share their lives. Change your life forever. 
Br. Loren Beaudry, M.M. Maryknoll Fathers & Brothers 
5128 S. Hyde Park Blvd. #45, Chicago, IL 606154217 
e-mail: Chlcago@maryknoll.org ..,..,:A.,;;"""' phone: (773) 493-3367 x221 
One World, One Mission www.soclety.maryknoll.org 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 27, 2005 

Hinton 
continued from page 28 
the first half. 
llinton dribbled around an Adrian midfielder to push the ball up field and then beat a defender on the top right of the goalkeeper's box to gain a clear view of the goal. She drilled the shot past the Adrian keeper for the score, in what Mackenzie described as a "beautiful goal" 

"It was all we could muster today. We played to the level of our competition," Mackenzie said of the low score. "Quite frankly, we just didn't play with a whole lot of energy and heart today. It just wasn't one of our better outings. We just did enough to win." 
The Belles did manage to find the back of the net again in the second half on a well-executed play ending with a Lauren Hinton goal. But it was taken away on an offsides infraction 
USA BASKETBALL 


USA officially names 
Krzyzevvski as coach 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Coach K's first day on his new job wasn't just about Xs and Os. It was filled with questions about NBA play­ers representing USA Basketball minding their Ps and Qs. 
Two weeks after it was widely reported, the sport's national governing body on Wednesday made Mike Krzyzewski the first coach of the first men's senior national team. 
The man who has led Duke to three national championships will be in charge duct yourself in playing this game. It's our game and it's time to reclaim the responsibility for doing that." 

Although Krzyzewski's rela­tionship with NBA players was a subject broached over and over at the news conference on Wednesday, the topic of image kept surfacing. 
"We need to change the per­ception of how the world looks at us as a country and a basket­ball power and we have to reclaim what we lost," Colangelo said. "It's a lot about how they look, how they act 
of the U.S. nation­ "For a coach this is  on  and  off  the  
al program for the next three years, a span that includes  the ultimate honor, to have the  court. The only way to change the perception is to  
the  World  opportunity to  have people doing  
Champion-ships in Japan in 2006 and the Beijing  coach your country's team."  the right thing and that's the goal." So is winning  
Olympics in 2008.  gold medals.  
lie is the first  Mike Krzyzewski  Up to 25 players 
college coach to  USA basketball coach  will be part of the  

lead a U.S. team in a major inter­national competi­tion since NBA players started playing in the Olympics in 1992. 
The move was initiated by Jerry Colangelo, the CEO of the Phoenix Suns who was appoint­ed managing director of the national team in April. It fol­lowed a two-year run when the United States finished sixth in the World Championships in Indianapolis in 2002 and third at the Athens Olympics last year. 
It "Yasn't just the lack of gold medals, it was the attitude and ofl"court problems of the players that drew the negative attention. 
"When it came right down to it, I had to make a choice," Colangelo said. "This was the individual, it was the guy, right time, right place. It was the guy I wanted alongside of me to go forward." 
And Colangelo's presence made Krzyzewski's easy decision easier. 
"For a coach this is the ulti­mate honor, to have the oppor­tunity to coach your country's team," said Krzyzewski, a West Point graduate who retired from the U.S. Army as a captain. "I love this game at every level. Knowing Jerry was in charge I asked him at our first meeting why he was doing this. He said, 'I love the game and the game's been good to me and we owe the game.' I really believe that. You could never repay it enough. If you don't give back it's wrong. 
"Working with Jerry, we're going to put together a team that will represent our country 
·at its very best both on and oil' the lloor and serve as an exam­ple for the rest of the world of the way the game should be played and how you should con­

..:...•. 
national  team  
process  and  
Colangelo  said  
over  the  three  

years there could be deletions and additions for various rea­sons. But no one will be invited without meeting Colangelo for a one-on-one interview. 
"We want the people who are selected to be invited to have a lot of pride for being on the first national team," he said. 
Larry Bird, the team president of the Indiana Pacers and a member of the "Dream Team" that won gold in Barcelona, gave his full support to Krzyzewski. 
"The right guy at the right time after Athens and the World Championships," Bird said of Krzyzewski. "This is the type of guy we need. After 2004 we needed a wake up call and we got ours." 
Krzyzewski served as an assis­tant to head coach Chuck Daly in 1992, and he was the head coach in the 1990 World Championships when a team of college players finished third. 
"The important thing is to get the right players on the team so Mike can be successful," Daly said. 
Krzyzewski's staff should be announced within three weeks and Colangelo said the plan calls for the team to assemble in late July for the World Championships that end Sept. 3. 2007, will be an ofT year and the time frame for the 2008 Olympics should be similar to next year's preparation. 
"I thought at that time that 1992 would be my ultimate Olympic experience and it was a pretty darn good one," Krzyzewski said. ''I'd like for this to be the ultimate Olympic experience." 
incurred during the scoring drive. 
Carrie Orr played a solid game at midfield. She keyed up many attack opportunities up front, while maintaining a solid pres­ence in the back. 
Freshman Whitney Fron played well up top on the flanks. Mackenzie complimented her high energy output the entire game and the excellent runs she had throughout to beat out Adrian defenders to the ball. 
Adrian could not find the 

Stasiuk 
continued from page 28 
times the entire rest of the season. 
When asked about coach Debbie Brown's opinion of her recent resurgence, Stasiuk was quick to reply. 
"Obviously,.she was happy with my performance, and I always try to make it better," she said. "But I definitely want to keep doing what we've been doing." 
Whije she played solid vol­leyball after returning from an off-season injury, she just recently has been hitting her stride. During the summer, she broke several ribs in a tubing accident. In hindsight, the fair­ly easy-going Stasiuk laughs at her injury. 
"It's kind of funny," she said. "Who does that?" 
Whatever she was doing, she must have been flying, !lipping or doing something only a ver­satile volleyball player would do. 
Her energy and versatility have sparked the Irish. Since her return, the Irish arc 15-1. N~tre Dame has won 11 straight matches and has vaulted to No. 7 in the polls ­tied for the highest ever by a Notre Dame team. 
Stasiuk missed the first three Belles net and struggled to per­form offensively throughout the first and much of the second half. 
"In the last ten minutes, it really dawned on them that they were really in a position to tie us; or to beat us," Mackenzie described Adrian's late second half pressure. "!The last ten minutes] was the best soccer I've seen them play. They played with a lot of heart and kind of got in on the idea that we were in this and could kind of win this 
matches of the season but returned in time to lead Notre Dame to upset victories over then No. 4 Florida, No. 8 USC and Oklahoma at the thing." 
But the Belles defense proved to be an impenetrable wall, and the women walked ofT the field with another victory in hand and another step on the road towards Saint Mary's soccer his­tory. 
'The pace of the game suited them, and we just didn't play as well as we've been playing as a team," Mackenzie said." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
"The energy level is really 
high. We're all really pumped." The reason? No. 6 and undefeated 
Louisville (20-0, 8-0 Big East) 

University of San Antonio's Dome Rally. 
"At the beginning of the sea­son, I was still knocking some rust off." she said. "I hadn't played in a long time." 
After an above average freshman year, she has evolved into an even more complete player. She has acceptP.d more of a leadership role this season and developed her game. 
"I think now that I'm not a freshman I have more leader­ship," she said. "I think my role is kind of being an all­around player." 
Stasiuk leads by example and hopes to keep her team calm but still tries to get her team fired up when the time is right. 
"I try to be a calming influ­ence, but I also like to be kind of a leader of excitement and energy," she said. · 
Excitement and energy are obviously building in the midst of ali 11-match winning­streak. But this week, the enthusiasm is even more evi­dent. 
"I think everyone's really excited," Stasiuk said. "Everyone on the team is real­ly into it. Everyone's giving 1 00" percent. 
comes to town this Saturday for a 2 p.m. match at the .Joyce Center. Though the Irish are ranked right behind their new Big East rival, Stasiuk knows her team has respect to gain. 
"Oh yeah. for sure," she said when asked if the Irish, despite sitting at 18-1 and 8-0 in thp, Big East, still have something to prove to the country and to the coaches who vote in the polls. "We definitP-ly have something to prove. We always have something to prove no matter what." 
·On the season, Stasiuk is averaging 2.65 kills per game, 
4.3 digs per game, .72 blocks per game and 3.39 points per game. This week, in addition to being named National Player of the Week, she was named the Big East's Player of' the Week. 
To some, like opposing coaches, she's proven herself quite a bit already. But to Stasiuk, she has much more proving to do. 
"Now, I'm just kind of getting back into it, getting back into the groove of things," she said. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 


Evenings of Prayer from Around the World 
Experience authentic prayer and meditation as part ofa series exploring the beliefand practices of the world's great faith traditions. 

JEWISH PRAYER 
Rabbi Steven Leapman 

Thursday, October 27 7-7:45 pm 330 Coleman-Morse 
Sponsored by : Campus Ministry International Student Services & Activities FOG Graduate Residences Graduate Student Union 


Thursday, October 27, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
PGA 
Brovvne, rest of field prepare for Chrysler Cha111pionship 
Associated Press That wasn't the case a year already has earned nearly $2 against." the top 125 on the money list ­ago in the Chrysler million -his best season ever It's not quite that bad this year or the top 40 to get into the 
PALM IIAHBOH, Fla. -The Championship, when Browne -and is making plans for his at Innisbrook, although nerves Masters -still have one morn only pressure Olin Browne felt showed up at lnnisbrook dan­first Tour Championship. are still frayed. chance. WPdnnsday was finishing his gling at No. 125 on the money He hasn't forgotten where he The Chrysler Championship, The only thing at stake this breakfast in time to meet his list and needing to stay there if was, and what guys now on the which starts Thursday with a week is finishing in thn top 30 to I 7 -year-old son at the l'itness he wantnd to keep his PGA Tour bubble ar.e going through. field that includes defending get into the Tour Championship. traiiPr. card. lie declined interviews "It's a hard place to be," he champion Vijay Singh, Hetief That's still enough ti> get some 
lin didn't make a U-turn before the tournament, and said. "Everybody wants a piece Goosen and David Toms, was players' attnntion. whenever hn saw a notepad or a after missing the cut, he made a of you. Guys are crawling out of supposed to be the final full­Charles Howell Ill is at No. 30 TVernw. quick exit to an uncertain the booth to interview you on field event on the PGA Tour. on the money list, and after a 
lie wasn't concerned about future. the putting green. What you That changed when Hurricane pro-am round that lasted nearly the PGA Tour money list. But two months ago, Browne want to do is focus on prepar­Katrina postponed the Soutlu~rn five hours, he was on the put­Mention the word bubblfl, and won the Deutsche Bank ing, not what you're up against. Farm Bureau Classic in ting green and then at the prac­Browne probably was thinking Championship, then tied for sec­But what everyone else wants to Mississippi to next week. tice range, firing long irons into champagne. ond in the Texas Open. lie talk about is what you're up Those who fail to finish inside a cool, still' wind. 
Phone 1-7800 
Main Office 319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 114 CoMo 

Campus Ministry 
Web 

Why pray to Mary &the Saints? 
Next time you enjoy a wonderful 
Can't we just go directly to God? 
worship celebration at the Basilica 
With the All Saints Day (November 1) Holy Day of Obliga­
of the Sacred Heart. remember that 
tion coming up within the next week, many questions regarding Mary 
you owe a little bit of your gratitude
and the Saints often circulate. When Catholics speak of praying to 
to Matt Haggerty. Matt is a junior
Mary or to a particular saint, the core issues at hand are really the in Keenan hall and has worked as a
Catholic belief in the power of intercessor_v prayer, coupled with the Catholic doctrine of the Communion (lSaints. Intercessory prayer. Student Sacristan at the Basilica of such as that directed toward Mary and the Saints. is probably some­the Sacred Heart since he aJTived on thing that most Christians experience very often without even think­campus. Matt's service and faith lit ing about it. Anytime we ask a fellow Christian to pray for us. we are in no way ends at the doors of the actually asking that person to intercede to God on our behalf. When Basilica though. He just finished a you promise to pray for someone, you are promising to remember 
very busy fall break as he was lead­that person in your own prayers to God. In both cases, we would 
ing one of the Center for Social 
assume (and hope) that the person making the request for prayers is 
cerns seminars to Appalachia. Now 
indeed already praying to God for that specific intention or concern. 
that he is back on campus, Matt still 
Our prayers, then, act only as further supplication to God on behalf of 
engrosses himself in ministry to the
the other person; they do not replace the Christian's personal prayer local community. In his spare time 
to God.· In a similar way, prayers to Mary and the Saints (our broth­at school Matt teaches catechism to
ers and sisters in Jesus Christ) are always directed at asking them to pray for us, as is true in perhaps the most famous of Catholic inter­second graders at St. Pius X parish cessory prayers, the Hail Mary. which ends, "Holy Mary, Mother of in Granger. Matt also volunteers on God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death!" These campus as a leader with the inter­intercessory prayers, unlike prayers of worship or adoration directed denominational praise and worship to the Holy Trinity. should not be mistaken as worship of Mary or the 
group Iron Sharpens Iron. Matt's Saints; worship is reserved for God alone. 
service to both the local community
Through belief in the Communion of Saints (as professed in 
and also those in need in Appalachia 
the Apostles' Creed), we understand that the mystical Body of Christ. 
is certainly admirable and the fruits
the Church, is comprised of all the faithful, both those living on earth 
of his labor can be felt in many dif­
and those already united to God in heaven. Likewise. we profess ferent ways on campus. Thanks for
as Paul did that "neither death. nor life, nor angels.... nor any other being a leader in faith Matt and keep 
creature will be able to separate us from the Jove of God in Christ Jesus..." (Romans R:38-39). Since Christians have always seen the up rhc good work! value of the prayers of the righteous person (cf. James 5: 16), how much more valuable then are the prayers of those who are very much 
Let us know who out there 
alive in Jesus Christ, those already with God in heaven? 
is making a difference! 
If we are indeed one Christian community. whether on earth or in heaven. then we should feel free to ask all our friends, whether 
Send nominations to 
on earth or in heaven. to remember us in their prayers! This is the Christian faith ... now let's live it! Have a blessed All Saints Day! Brian Vassel at 
Send uestions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.26@nd.edu! bvassel nd.edu 
page 24 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 27, 2005 
... 



cingular 
r.r.r.rr 
Mishawaka/South Bend University I'Jrk Mall tlocatt•d in the Food CourtJ (574i 243-8016 


The amount of mustc your ROKR El can hold depends on the compression rate of your songs and the amount of media stored on your phone. The Motorola ROKR El is aproduct of Motorola, Inc. Motorola and the Stylized MLogo are registered tn the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners. ©Motorola. Inc. 2005. TM &© 2005 Apple. The iTunes and iTunes logo are trademarks of Apple. By using the iTunes software you are agreeing to the software licenses in 
this package. Cingular and the graphic icon are trademarks of Cingular Wireless LLC. Coverage not available in all areas. ©2005 Cingular Wireless. All rights reserved. 
Thursday, October 27, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
.Hoosiers 
continued from page 28 
"They pressure very hard," thn coach said. "Especially in thn attacking areas, they are very tough, very strong and vnry dntormined." 
Thn Hoosiers opened the scoring with 14:01 remaining in thn first haiL Freshman forward Lee Nguyen fired a fn~n shot from 25 yards out into the top right cornP.r of the goal, just passnd the out­strntched arms of Notrn Dame's six foot six goalknep­er, Chris Cahill. The score gavn Nguyen seven goals on tlw season. 
The Irish head1~d into inter­mission down 1-0. but Indiana quickly added to its lead in llw second half. 
In tlw 52nd minute, forward Mike Ambersley's sent a shot at llw top of the goal from 35 yards away. Cahill managed to get a hand on the ball, but it dnfler.tnd into the net to give tlw I loosiers a 2-0 advantage. 
Later in the half, Ambnrsley aga i n lw I p n d t lw II o o s ie r s strntch thnir lead. 
In the 65th minute, Cahill madn a nien save on a shot by Indiana star forward Jaeob l'nt1~rson. hut Ambnrsley col­lnctnd the rebound and crossed thn ball to sophomore rnidl'ieldnr Charley Traylor. Traylor sent a header into the rwt for his first earner goal. widnning llw gap to 3-0. 
"It's disappointing to lose 3­
0. It's humbling," junior cap­tain <irng Dalby said. 
lh~spitn giving up thn three goals, Cahill rnadn sevoral nkn saves in the game, total­ing sevnn on thn night. Tho goalie felt the Irish nevnr n~ally got into a groove in thn game. 
"I don't think we 1wer mally s1~ttled in on dnfensn or on offense the whole game, Cahill said. "I don't think we ever got into a flow during the game that we needed." 

Notre Dame's best scoring chance came late in the game when the team already trailed by three goals. In the 80th minute, junior forward Justin McGeency got behind the Hoosier defense and took a shot from 12 yards out, but Indiana keeper Chris Munroe stopped the try. Munroe fin­ished the game with three saves. 
The Irish earne away extremely impressed with the No. 5 Hoosiers. 
"That is the team that sets 
the standard for college soe­cer," Dalby said. Clark agreed with his cap­tain's sterling assessment. 
"It's as good an Indiana team as I've seen over the years," Clark said. "They pressured the hell out of us. They never let us settle at all into the game." 
The Irish will finish regular season play Saturday at Alumni Field against Big East rival Seton Hall -a game that will be important if they arc going to get an NCAA tournament bid. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
4 and 5 Bedrooms Available for Next School Year 
All include: 3 levels of living, private bedrooms, dishwasher, garbage disposal, A/C, washer & dryer, assigned parking spaces, and optional ADT security system 

;£\ 



\!!BJ 
**SPECIAL** 
Sign a lease before November 1oth and receive a 
FREE MONTHS RENT! 
For more information call Nicole 
I cmt.~"2:'?:.':'"~~·~'?'S?."?:~:>:·?-&.?.~·':':):':=::·::-'?;':?:··.·:·:;o;~~?.·::o:%~:-'?.2:.'?.'~"!811!1a'llilll!l>li>'lla!li~---rlf 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles given golden MIAA opportunity 
By RYAN KIEFER 
SportS Writer 
Saint Mary's has a chance to secure its highest finish in thn MIAA since 1999 when it takes tho eourt at Albion College tonight. 
The Belles currently have sole possession of 11fth place in the conference with a 5-10 con~renee record. Three teams, among them Albion, are tied for sixth place at 4-11. 
A win tonight would guaran­tee them fifth place and give them the No. 5 seed in next week's MIAA tournament. 
Tonight's match marks thn end of the regular season for the Belles. It also gives them their final opportunity to improve upon last year's con­ference record of 5-11. 
Saint Mary's enters the match following a thrilling five-game win over Kalamazoo Tuesday. After winning the first two games, the Belles overcame some ineonsistcnt play in the third and fourth games to seal a erucial win in the fil'th. 
The Belles have looked for­ward to tonight's match with Albion since they suffered a five-game loss at the hands or the Britons on Oct. 8. 
Belles eoaeh Julie Schroeder-Hick felt that the Belles may have been thinking about tonight's match Hntering Tuesday's battle with Kalamazoo. 
"I think we were looking ahead a bit !earlier this we.ekl." Schroeder-Biok said. "That is one of the worst mis­takes you can make in athlet­ics. We were fortunate to come out with that win [against Kalamazoo]." 
Unfortunately for the Belles, they will play tonight without Amanda David, one of tho stars from the earlier match against Albion. The Saint Mary's setter broke her hand last week in a match against Calvin and will be sidelined for the remainder of the season. 

The Belles showed resiliency as they bounced back from David's injury to capture two out of thren matches in the last week. 
Schrocdor-Biek attributed her team's suecP-ss to excellent teamwork and eonlidenco and feels these areas will be cru­cial for the Belles' tonight. 
"The most important thing for us is playing our game and playing confident," Schronder­Biek said. "When something bad happnns. we can't get down. We have to know wn arn good enough that we can corm~ back from that." 
Since defeating the Belles nearly three weeks ago, Albion has strugglod, losing five straight conference matches. The Britons' most recent defeat came at the hands of Hope College in three games Tuesday. 
Despite Albion's rceent struggles, they still present a considerable ehallengc to the Belles. 
Possessing a potent offense led by Sarah Stamer who was named MIA/\ player of the week for tho first week of October, Albion averages 3.93 ki lis per garnn, fifth in the MIA/\. Slamcr recorded a match-high 29 kills against tho Belles in the teams' 11rst rn!~et­ing. 
Saint Mary's will be using a new defnnsive scheme against Slamer and the Britons tonight. This adjustment was impl!mwnted by Schroeder­Biok following David's injury and thn resulting position changes that sWrnmed from it. 
Sehroeder-Biek realiznd the opportunity ahead of hor team and felt the Bnlles were ready to seize it. 
"We have a tremendous opportunity to finish in l'il'th place," she said. "Wn have been looking forward to the Albion match, and we are excited about the challenge they present." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefel @nd.edu 


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 27, 2005 

Who Counts in the Americas? Tuesday, November 1, 2005 7pm, Carroll Auditorium Guest Speakers 

Brenda Cardenas Professor of English, Milwaukee Area Technical College; Chicana poet with deep Chicago roots, author of the poetry collection From the Tonf?ttes of"Hrick and .)'tone. 
Maurice Kilwein Guevara o--rr\TP<.<nr of English, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee; Colombian-born poet, playwright translator; his works include Poems ofthe River Spirit and 
Betsy Hartmann Director ofthe Population and Development Program at Hampshire College; author of Reproductive Rights and Wrongv: The Global Politics l~f Population Control and a novel, lhe Truth about Fire. 
Maria Riley, OP nator of the Center of Concern's Global Women's Project; an Adrian Dominican ster, she helped launch the International Gender and Trade Network, and is author of 
:';eeks Her Way: Uberating the Power ofWomen's ,\'pirituality. 
An audience Q & A will follow panelists' presentations: a reception and book signing will close the event. 
Sponsored by the Writing Proficiency Program. with the support of the Center for Academic Innovation and the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership 


Come Dance with the Dead 
Thursday, October 27th Student Night Halloween Party 
$500 Cash Prize Costume Contest 
1.50 Drink Specials -$2 Cover w/ Student 10 Featuring Music by CK-1 
and come back for our... 


Sinister Saint's Eve Party 
Saturday, October 29th 
$1500 Grand Prize for our Costume Contest 
hosted by U93 Drink Specials -$5 Cover Featuring OJ Grind, Miz Marie, and the Hottest Chicago oJ•s 


Bass 
continued from page 28 
S-4, when Sheeva served for the match," Bayliss said. "Sheeva broke and just picked up a level the last couple of games." 
Parbhu's loss in the finals put him at 10-1 on the season and snapped an unbeaten streak that dated back to March 17-a span of 17 matches. 
Bass fought his way through the main draw, coming back from behind in several matches to win the tournament. 
"It's sort of a similar pattern," Bayliss said. "He seems to be able to gather his resources at the most critical times, and he never beats himself." 
Bass was forced to come from behind in some of his early matches, but he handily defeat­ed Michigan State's Nick Rinks to earn a berth in the finals. 
"Stephen just kept the ball deep, played very solidly and was aggressive enough to keep Rinks from taking charge and dominating any of the point," Bayliss said. "Ultimately, the difference was Stephen didn't make many mistakes, and Rinks did." 

After winning in the finals, Bass is 11-0 on the season. He has six victories against nation­ally-ranked players. 
Parbhu made his route to the top of the tournament look easy. 
"Sheeva, on the other hand, pretty much cruised through most of the tournament until the last few rounds," Bayliss said. 
He defeated Ohio State's top­seeded Devin Mullings to earn his spot against Bass in the finals. 
Both players also posted sin­gles wins against USC on Oct. 14. 
"As a coach, I was guardedly optimistic about. USC, and I thought we played extremely well," Bayliss said. 
Winning the doubles point was key to the match despite Notre Dame's large margin of victory. 
"I thought Brett Helgeson showed a ton of poise when he had to serve out for the doubles point," Bayliss said. "At No. 3 I was pleasantly surprised the way we dominated, I thought [Andrew] Roth and Bass did a great job." 
The Irish dropped one singles well, and after losing a first-set ·Parbhu won 6-2, 6-4 at No. 2 match as Chong Wang upset tiebreaker, really played a great and Bass took the No. 1 match Eric Langenkamp at No.4. second and third set," Bayliss at 7-6, 6-4. 
"We had started four, five and said. "l-Ie was aggressive to the ''I'm not turning cartwheels six earlier and I end, didn't lose or anything, but to play well at felt they were his serve in the home against a quality oppo­
"Ultimately, the 

pretty strong at third set." nent with a lot.of people watch­No. 4," Bayliss difference was After breaking ing is also good," Bayliss said. said. "I thought Stephen didn ,t for doubles, the Bass and Parbhu both earned Eric gave it a top three matches bids for the second grand slam
make many

great effort." in singles fol­of the season, the ITA National 
Southern mistakes, and lowed. Intercollegiate Indoor California native Rinks did.,, "So we knew we Championships. The tourna­Patrick Buchanan were up 3-1 going ment will begin Nov. 3 at The won 6-0, 6-2 at into the last Hacquet Club of Columbus. 
Bobby Bayliss 

No.5. three," Bayliss "I think everyone who 
"Pat Buchanan Irish coach said. "Brett took watched our match with USC was absolutely care of that awful-had to be impressed with the outstanding -he ly fast -he won quality of the play," Bayliss didn't miss a ball," Bayliss said. that match in probably under said. 
Ryan Keckley also took a win an hour and was really domi­at No.6. nating off the ground." Contact Kate Gales at "Ryan Keckley fought really After the match was clinched, kgales@nd.edn 
The Riverside Terrace 
426 Lincolnway East cindy@ theriversideterrace.com 57 4-256-2271 
Look for Our New Wesite Coming Soon! 
theriversideterrace.com 
Downtown Mishawaka on the River 
Formal Dinners Special Events Dances Accommodates up to 700 Persons Off Premise Catering Book Your Dance and Banquet Now! 
-~ 
i i 52694 State Road 933 1 South Bend, Indiana 46637 ! 
Just 2 miles north of Notre Dame on U.S. 31 f 
Offer good at the South Bend location only ,
• 
Saint Mary:'s Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME "INDIANA 
Educating Worl)en. Transforming Lives 

Join us for discussion as an interdisciplinary panel adda·esses the First Year Theme of "Who Counts in the U.S./Who Counts in the Americas?" 


Wlio Counts? 

Thursday, October 27, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
~=~~~·:;~2:=~1 '·.. 
'ftiS.U(I\'lloH. v.r~.n'-1~~:-M t 
~ ioTAU..1•1'1.<.CIMf"t~i.~'S:I SL ·. 
OL\:) \.Ai'l M 10 l'1(.)1M'f •. 
I h 
~tS:tw'OO~ u:'T f'QN."f 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 42 Violet variety DOWN 1 Home free 46 A.A.A. and 1 Retail giant 5 Condescend B.B.B., e.g. 2 Two-time loser 
1 o Beam intensely 47 Biscotto to Ike 
flavoring 3 Name of three 48 Jamison of the popes 14 Pristine plot 
15 Caste member, N.B.A. 
4 Some linemensay 50 In position 5 Any car,16 Grimm opener 51 Opt not to affectionately11 In one's Sunday 
charge, perhaps 
6 Bard's finest 53 Castigate contraction19 Stooge's laugh 56 Sword parts 7 Follower of add, syllable 58 Aria sung by slip or come20 Union demand Renato a Horatian work21 Interrogate 60 Burlesque show 9 A little 23 Rush-hour hour 

accessories overweight24 Flamenco 
61 What a vertigo 1 o TV's Anderson guitarist Carlos 
sufferer may 

11 For even a29 Antithesis: Abbr. 
wonder minute more 

31 Like, with ''to" 
66 Neighbor of the 

12 Making a bust,
32 Swazi, e.g. radius 
maybe 34 Old paper 67 Stomach 
13 Cry in cartoons section 68 Radar unit? 
18 Riviera's San 
37 Carousing 69 Crane 39 Hank of construction 
22 Follower of Meir Hollywood 10 In need of a 
and Shamir 41 Like just the muffler 
25 "Venice 
draft of an 71 Something to 

Preserved" e-mail stage 
dramatist Thomas ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 26 Greatest possible 27 Before-long connection 
28 Inspiration for Lennon's "Woman" 
30 Tries to hole out 31 Toes' woes 33 Williams of 
"Happy Days" 34 15-Across rulers 35 Problem linked to CFC's 36 Papeete's people 
THE OBSERVER 
. 
Puzzle by Frank Longo 
38 Cocoon residents 40 Fumble-fingered 43 Cousin of a crow 44 Family member, for short 45 Training org.? 49 'That was close!' 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
WILLSHORTZ 

52 Nile spanner 59 Alternative to stairs 
53 Coin of Qatar 
60 Hair style 54" far far 
62 "Deadwood" 

better thing ...": airer 
Dickens 
63 Junior's junior 55 Far from 
64 Parts of finan. 

reticent portfolios 
57 D.A.-to-be's 65 "What's the big hurdle idea?!" 
page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GYKAW 

I [ J (] 
<02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
YILSK 
j

[] [ I I 
COSTAM I 

± 
WHY HE=!<. HUSBAND l-IKE::D THE: FORM­FITTING OUTFIT.
rrJ (] 

www.jumble.com 
TRIVEN 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: IT 

WAS rIIIJCIIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: MADAM BIPED ARCTIC COMPEL
Yesterday's 
Answer: 

What the hobo felt like when he got caught in the downpour-A DAMP TRAMP 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

ELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Cary Elwes, 43: Lauren Tewes, 51: Pat Sajak. 59: Jaclyn Smith. 58 
Happy Birthday: Think about what you can do to get ahead. hut don'l set your goals so high they are unattainable. The key will he to keep things in perspective and be honest with yourself ahout your expectation,. Your creative dreams can be reached if you are true to yourself. Your numbers arc 2, 17, 21, 2!!, 36,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You have drive, stamina and whal it takes to get things done. Today. you can start to eliminate any bad habits or poor choices you have made in the past. Love is in your comer. and good luck will come your way.***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't count on getting any help. Compromise today if you want to get ahead. Problems dealing with people can be ex peeled. Don't make demands or you will be shot down.** GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): You can gel help if you ask a trusted friend to decipher what's going on in your life. You arc too close to the situation to he objective. A change regarding what you want to do for a living is apparent. Be creative. **** CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Overspending or being too generous with friends or children is evident. Put your heart and soul into making more money. Work prospects look good if you want to make a leap from one position to another.*** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Don't worry about whal someone who is crilical ha' to say. Instead. summnd yourself with people who arc encouraging and supportive. Personal issues may lead to a change in your private life. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be inclined to spend ton much on the one you love or on something you don't really need. Don't be fooled hy a promise someone makes regarding your earning potential. Don't spend before you have the cash in your hands. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Love is looking you in the eye, and if you arc quick to respond, a feel-good day can he yours. Don't make a decision regarding friends, lravel or business unless you have all the facts. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nuv. 21): Someone you least expect may put you on the spot. Don't squirm .... if you strike hack pointedly you will tum the tables, putting you in an ideal position. Take an unusual approach to whatever you do. H SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can do far better in all aspects of your life if you are willing to diversify. Travel and networking arc what it's all about, so put yourself on display. You will get tlu: recognition you arc lmking for. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Rid yourself of the dead weight in your life. Your future looks bright if you challenge yourself. You will obtain valuable infonnation if you are receptive to other people's opinions. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 1!!): You may feel uncertain aboul your personal life or a partnership you are in. Don't let anyone get the better of you. Make suggestions. but he prepared to go it alone if you must. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may have to put yourself to the test today to get things finished. hut in the end, it will he well worth your effort. Your loved ones may not understand what you arc trying to do, hut you will prove yourself. 
*** 

Birthday Baby: You are charismatic, forceful and irresistible. You arc a born leader. You arc disciplined and resourceful and will never back down. You have intensity, valor, and strength of character. 
Eu!(enia's Weh sites--astmadvice.comftJr jim, t'U!(ntialast.comjhrconfidnuial con.ru/ration.t 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses.. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytirnes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
~ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 27, 2005 
page 28 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Hoosiers live up to reputation 
No. 5 Indiana shuts out Notre Dame 3-0 at Alumni Field 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame received a rnminder of why Indiana has won the past two NCAA cham­pionships Wednnsday night, as thP Hoosiers soundly defeated the Irish 3-0 at Alumni Field, dominating the game from start to linish. 
"They showed wh,Y. they are tlw best team in the country," Notre Dame head coach Bobby Clark said. ''They arp, vp,ry, very good." 
Indiana controlled the game from thf~ opening whistle, con­sistently keeping the ball on Notre Dame's end of the 11eld. The Hoosiers out shot the Irish 20-7 in the game. 
Notre Dame struggled to get anything going offensively and had very few scoring opportu­nitins. 
Clark attributed the team's offensive problems to Indiana's constant pressure. 
see HOOSIERS/page 25 


SMC SOCCER 

Belles beat Adrian by one goal 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

It is the bane of numerous quality teams -and it struck the Belles on Wednesday with a near-crippling blow. 
Saint Mary's narrowly avoided an upset at the hands of Adrian College, but cam1·~ out on top with a 1-0 win. The Belles played down to their opponents' level, and it nearly cost them a chance to 11nish the season with ten conference wins and a third­place MIAA finish. 
"On a whole as a team, it was one of our worst p1~rformances," Saint Mary's coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "It was very lackluster, in our energy and our effort, today. We were just kind of going through the motions." 
The Belles lone goal came from junior midlieldcr Ashley Ilinton in the latter portion of 
see HINTON/page 22 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
With Stasi uk back, Irish are on a tear 
Irish outside hitter averaging 4.3 kills in last three matches 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
Adrianna Stasiuk doesn't want much attention. She wants her team to have it. 
But if she keeps playing the way she has been, it's going to be impossible to ignore her. 
Stasiuk was named the National Player of the Week by Collegiate Volleyball Update Tuesday. 
"I got recognized and it was really nice, but I like to focus on the team," she said. "I don't like getting individual awards, really." 
Short and to the point with her answers, Stasiuk has sta­tistics that are anything but short or small. 
In the past three matches, the outside hitter has posted outstanding all-around num­bers. She averaged 4.3 kills, 3.9 digs and 1.5 blocks per game in those matches, also posting match-high numbers in 11ve different statistical cat­egories on eight occasions. 
In the last match -Sunday against Georgetown-Stasiuk pounded a team-leading 14 kills. She hit for a .419 attack percentage and has hit over .290 in each of the past five matches. In addition, she posted 10 digs for her sixth double-double in the past eight matches. 
Considering those numbers and considering the way she flies all over the court, Stasiuk is an outside hitter by name only. At times, she plays like an outside hitter. Others, she plays more like a defensive specialist or a middle blocker. 
The 5-foot-10 sophomore digs, sets, serves, spikes and blocks. This week, she led the Irish in both kills and hitting and placed second in both digs and blocks. She had eight blocks in last week's matches despite blocking only seven 
see STASIUK/page 22 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Bass defeats Parbhu in finals 
Notre Dame defeats USC 6-1 in Oct. 14 exhibition match 
By KATE GALES Assocaite Sports Editor 
Officially, the season doesn't start until January. But the Irish are turning heads already. 
As a team, Notre Dame post­
.
ed a 6-1 win in an exhibition match over USC on Oct. 14. As individuals, Stephen Bass and Sheeva Parbhu ended up play­ing each other in the finals of the Wilson/ITA Midwest Tournament on Oct. 25, where Bass prevailed in a 7-5, 6-2 vic­tory. 
"It's a tremendous honor," Irish head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We've had our share of good teams [at Notre Darnel. including one that reached the NCAA finals, but we've never had two players at the region­al. It's very rare." 
After handily winning the first set, Parbhu dropped the second and had to fight for the third. 
"The third, Sheeva got down an early break and was down pretty much the whole set until Observer File Photo 
Stephen Bass serves in an April 9 match against Ball State. The see BASS/page 26 junior defeated teammate Sheeva Parbhu Oct. 25, 7-5, 6-2. 

SMC VOllEYBAll 

USA BASKETBAll 
WORLD SERIES 
NFl 
WNBA 
NCAA FOOTBAll 
..... 

Duke coach Mike -White Sox 1 
Michael Vick is happy 

Sheryl Swoopes came
Co) Saint Mary's at 
Boston College at 

Krzyzewski was named 
winn'ing games for the 

out of the closet
z Albion 

Astros 0 
Virginia Tech 

head basketball coach 
Falcons, but he would 

Wednesday, speaking
With a win, the Belles 

Chicago wins its first 
The Hokies are 

.... 
:3 
for the USA Olympic 
like to see his statistics 

with ESPN the
will earn their highest 

World Series since 1917, 
focused on the Eagles

C) c:s 
team. 
improve in the process. 
Magazine.
finish since 1999. 

sweeping the Astros in 
and the size of their 

a. cz: ti 
the process. 
offensive line. 
page 21
page 25 

page 22 
page 19 

.page 17 
page 16 

en 
' 










