
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 10 MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 5. 2005 . 

Professors return safely from N el'V Orleans 
Zachman and Chambers grateful to be back at SMC after hurricane stranded them in hotel 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
Caught in thn fury of llurricann Katrina and then stranded in their Canal Street hotel by subsequent flooding. two Saint Mary's professors finally made it home Thursday and wnrn set to return to their dassroorns today. 
Spanish professor Jenniff1r Zachman and psychology pro­fessor Karnn Chambers spent thrfH~ days holed up in a Slwraton hotel with roughly 1,000 other stranded travelers, hotel employees, family mem­bers and pets waiting to be evacuated from New Orleans. 
The pair had been attending an Advance Placement Testing conference over the weekend along with Saint Mary's faculty members Mary Connolly and David Stefancic as Katrina approached and storm warn­ings began to be issued. 
"Hight then they started get­ting people out," Zachman said. "It was sheer luck of the draw who got out." 
Connolly and Stefandc were placed on flights out of the city before cancellations began, but Zachman and Chambers were forced to remain at the hotel. 
After initial moments of panic, Zachman said, the women resigned themselves to staying in New Orleans believ­ing they would be safe in the Sheraton. 
Following the hotel staff's instruction's, they filled their bathtub with water to use for hygienic purposes later, and then gathered with the rest of the guests Sunday at 8 p.m. in a ballroom on the fifth floor. 
"Everyone brought their blankets and pillows and we slept in there," Zachman said. 
"It was kind of at first like camping." 
Hotel manager Dan King had extended the hotel's hospitality to employees and their families unable to leave the city, Chambers said. 
"lie didn't just protect the tourists, he protected a lot of' people who couldn't get out of New Orleans," Chambers said. "I've told a lot of people this, I think the Sheraton literally saved my life." 
Zachman said there was a great sense of relief Monday 
see KATRINA/page 3 

Irish win leaves fans optimistic 
Students travel to Pittsbugh to be a part of the season opener, others watch from campus 
By JOE PIARULLI News Writer 
They celnbrated at 7:24, 7:57, 8:15, 8:22, 8:41 and 'J::{8 p.m. 
At these times Saturday night. tho nntiro Notre Dame student body was chnering, jumping, yelling, elapping and bursting with exeite­mnnt. These were the monwnts of high fives and erowd dives, of' game notes and sore throats, of' ehest bumps and arm pumps. 
Thnso w11ro tho markers of Notrn Dame's six touchdowns against Pittsburgh on Saturday night. 
Moanwhiln, whether at l.ngnnds. on the quads or in tho hasoment of a dorm, stu­donts and fans on eampus 
see FOOTBALL/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Kelley at vvork for President 
Professor is named as White House counsel 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame associato law professor has madn the leap from Notre Damn Avnnue to Pennsylvania Avenue allnr land­ing a job in May as deputy Whito House counsel to President George W. Bush. 
William Kelley, a University faculty member since 1995, spe­cialized in administrative and constitutional law before being oll'ered the highly ranknd govern­mnntal job last spring. lie follows the lead of fellow Notre Dame law professor Jimmy Gurulo, who also served under President Bush from 2001 to 2003. 
Professor Riek Garnett, a col­league of Kelley's at the Notre Dame law school. said the appointment was to be expectod given Kellny's legal expertise. 
"Beeause of Professor Knlley's experience, credentials and legal judgment, I don't think any of us who know him were surprised when the Administration asked him to serve in this important position," he said. "I know that Professor Kelley felt honored by the appointment and enthusiastic about the ehance to eontributo and to immerse himsnlf' in so many ehallnnging legal prob­lems." 
Kelley joins an army of Notrn Dame professors and graduates who have gone on to hold power­ful positions in Washin~-,rton. Most notably, current Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice-a 1975 
see KELLEYIpage 4 

SMC offers outdoor education 
By LISA GALLAGHER 
News Writer 
!\ hikn to Indiana Dunes Stato Park last Sunday kieknd ofT a fresh sories of' outdoor­intnnsivn activities for tho womnn of' Saint Mary's. 
"Tho hike was beautiful." sophomore Loretta Brown said. "It took us through some eeosystn,m~. that many pnople never sen. 
Tho hiko was thn first of several nnw wenkend outings sdwdulnd throughout the fall to m1abln studnnts to enjoy a variety of' physical aetivities. Instructor John Gallagher collaborated with athletic dirnetor Lynn Kaehmarik last year to giwge student interest 
see PHYS-ED/page 6 


Male professors play vital role at College 
Editor's note: The is the last in a three part series exploring the role of men at Saint Mary's. 
By NICOLE ZOOK Assistant News Editor 
While some may see the all­fnmale environment at Saint Mary's as unusual in today's world of co-ed eollnges and nven co-Pd dormitories, philos­ophy professor Kevin McDonnell says he knows the value of a single-sex education -he attended an all-male school for his undergraduate eourses. 
"In the mid-1960s there were 300 women's colleges and 
at least as many men's col­leges," McDonnell said. "I dated women from sevnral women's schools and respected them and their education." 

· While the Arnnriean public's outlook on single-snx colleges had changed by the time MeDonrwll was hired as faculty at the College a few years later, he viewed Saint Mary's not as outdated in a quickly dwindling field of all-women's colleges but as an opportunity to edu­eatn students in a different kind of environment. 
"By the time I came to Saint Mary's, soon after the merger negotiations with Notre Dame had broken down, almost every 
see MEN/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Significance of sport 
In the aftermath of the deadly hurri­cane Katrina, insignificant as it may sound, I thought about sports. I sat in my sports-adorned dorm room ready to sign up for interhall sports, eager to take a road trip to Ann Arbor for a football game and Tom Dorwart excited to experience 
Sports
another Irish home 
Writer
game. Less than a week after perhaps the most catastrophic event in United States history, I-along with the rest of Notre Dame -cheered on the Irish to victory over Pitt. 
And I wondered -should we feel guilty for having fun, eating pizza and caring so much about sports? I thought about the meaning and importance of sports, the reason we still watch Sportscenter or play two-hand-touch football on the quad. Then, I realized, we need sports. Sports still matter. 
Last week's chaos put a new perspec­tive on sports -on life, itself, for that matter-much in the same way 9/11 and the tsunami in Asia did. We should reflect on the tragedy -pray for the vic­tims and those helping with relief efforts and donate money at our dorm Masses, home football games and other events. It seems, even hundreds of miles away from the stricken area, that enough can't be done. 
Still, sports matter. 

More than ever, Louisianans will be New Orleans Saints fans-they will show their resolve and passion if, some­how, their shaken Saints win their season opener this week. No doubt, the people without a town will take pride in their teams. They don't have homes, but they'll watch-ifthey can -Southern Mississippi take on Alabama, LSU battle Arizona State and Tulane face Mississippi State this weekend and next. 
"We need this season," Tulane quarter­back Lester Ricard said in an espn.com article. "I think that will be the ultimate joy, to see us do well this season." 
To Tulane president Scott Cowen, "doing well," at this point, goes beyond winning. Wms would be a mere bonus. 
"We want our athletes to carry the torch, face and name of Tulane University during this difficult time," Cowen said. 
It's quite the undertaking, but the ath­letes are more than willing to accept it. 
"It's something that we want to do for New Orleans," Green Wave linebacker Antonio Mason said. "A lot of people look at us as not only reps of Tulane, but of New Orleans. People can look at us and say, 'Wow, look at that team; they're going on the road, going through all that adversity, and still getting the job done."' 
Thlane coach Chris Scelfo called the country to "rally" behind New Orleans, saying while his players are worried about missing family members, the "game will be, not so much competition, but a release, a distraction." 
So, don't feel guilty for playing catch on the quad or watching the Irish this week­end. Coaches always say sports teach players and fans about life, about team­work and about working towards a goal. Now, in the midst of tragedy, sports seem like more than that. They are the very "release" which helps us through chal­lenging times. 
When the world seems, as it did last Monday, like it's about to come to a halt, the sports world keeps spinning -as it should. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at 
tdorwart@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make misrakes. If we have made a misrake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Monday, September 5, 2005

The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF SATURDAY'S FOOTBALL GAME? 



Kyle Knust Matthew Frey 
senior senior O'Neill O'Neill 
"Not even "I sure do miss 
Wanny's 'stache the swinging could stop the gate. " Irish offense." 

Ty Martin 
senior O'Neill 
"Instead ofbeing Stanford East, weare now Patriots West. " 

Man finds venomous giant centipede in Britain 
LONDON -Aaron Balick expected to find a tiny mouse stirring around behind the 1V in his apart­ment. Instead, he found a venomous giant centipede that somehow made its way from South America to Britain. 
He trapped the 9-inch­long creature between a stack of books and put it in a plastic container. 
"Thinking it was a mouse, I went to investigate the sound," Balick said Wednesday. "The sound was coming from under some papers which I lifted, expecting to see the mouse scamper away. 
"Instead, when I lifted the papers, I saw this prehis­toric looking animal skitter away behind a stack of books." 
The next day Balick, 32, took it to Britain's Natural History Museum, which identified the insect as a Scolopendra gigantea -the world's biggest species of centipede. 
Humans on exhibit in London Zoo 
LONDON -London Zoo unveiled a new exhibition Thursday -eight humans prowling around wearing lit­tle more than fig leaves to cover their modesty. 

The mammals were cho­sen from dozens of hopefuls in an Internet competition. 
The "Human Zoo" is intended to show the basic nature of human beings as they frolick throughout the August bank holiday week­end. 
"We have set up this exhibit to highlight the spread of man as a plague species and to communicate the importance of man's place in the planet's ecosys­tem," the London Zoo said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0:::: 
11.1 :::1: 

!;;: 
11.1 
3: 
..... 
< 
(.) 


0 

HIGH 82 HIGH 60 HIGH 85 HIGH 83
...I LOW 75 LOW 53 LOW 62 LOW 59 

Andrew Crowe 
senior O'Neill 
"Weisfor Reisman!" 
IN BRIEF 

The hockey team and Notre Dame Athletics will sponsor the inaugural "Drop the Puck" din­ner Thesday. Events include an open skate from 5:30 p.m. to 6 on the Joyce Center Ice Rink, autographs with the team at 6 p.m., dinner at 7 p.m. and guest speaker Hockey Hall of Farner Scotty Bowman, the for­mer Detroit Red Wings head coach and winningest coach in NHL history -including Nine Stanley Cups. 
A conference titled "Capture Gamma-Ray Spectroscopy and Related Topics" will take place all day today through Friday in the McKenna Hall auditorium. The themes of the conference include Nuclear Structure, Nuclear Symmetries, Nuclear Astrophysics and Instrumentation, Facilities and Applications of Nuclear Science. 
The tri-military branches of ROTC will sponsor a Patriot's Day ceremony Friday at 7 a.m. next to the Hesburgh Library Reflecting Pool. The event will feature speaker retired Lieutenant Colonel Douglass R. Hemphill, a former Notre Dame professor of Military Science and current academic advisor in the Mendoza College of Business. The public is invited to attend. 
An exhibit entitled Two Italian Hardbodies: Sports Cars Clad by Scaglietti and Frua will be on display in the Snite Museum of Art Entrance Atrium Gallery until Sept. 18. The exhibit fea­tures a 1958 Ferrari and a 1955 Maserati. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY  FRIDAY  
(f  (f  

HIGH 78 HIGH 81 LOW 57 LOW 59 
Atlanta 91 I 69 Boston 84 I 65 Chicago 84 I 56 Denver 86 I 56 Houston 94 I 70 Los Angeles 85 I 66 Minneapolis 78 I 55 New York 86 I 65 Philadelphia 89 I 67 Phoenix 105 I 84 Seattle 75 I 52 St. Louis 88 I 65 Tampa 90 I 75 Washington 90 1 85 

Monday, September 5, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

All majors are encouraged to attend. Undergraduate and Master Students, non-MBA 
THE COMPLEXITY OF A PROBLEM DISAPPEARS IN THE SIMPLICITY OF THE SOLUTION. 
BCG 


www.hcg.com 
Katrina 
continued from page 1 
after the storm passed over the eity and she and Chambers hoped to be able to lly horne the rwxt day. Breaches in Nnw Orleans' Ievins, however, made that impossible. 
"We woke up Tuesday and looked out llw window and saw tlu~ flooding," Zachman said. "It was like, 'Oh my God."' 
Out of food and water. nearby hot1~ls lwgan !Wieting their orcupants, Zachman said. She and Charnlwrs watrhed as rdugnns walked by 1·arrying luggage. 
King announced ovnr the hotel I';\ system that to nnsure t.lwir safety hn would have to 
lock  down  the  building,  
Zachman said.  
Tlw  professors  said  they  

thmnselves saw very little of the looting that was widely report­ed by the media, but under the eireumstances. they sympa­thiznd with those who were foremlto stPal to survive. 
"I can't judge those people for stealing water," Zachman said. "Who can blame people for stealing nwdidne or food?" 
The Slwraton. just bloeks from llw French Quarter, is located on orw of the higher parts of the eity. Zachman said that while stranded inside, the wonwn did not !W!~n realize the gravity of the llooding. 
"We were in kind of a media black out," shn said. "The hotel did snt up four computers (with tlw usn of an emergency gener­ator) so people could e-mail family and fri!HHls. We would lwar things, rumors, but we didn't know what was going on." 
Using a contact in the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Sheraton Corporation arranged for the stranded guests to be evacuated by bus. Fm1ling relieved but also slightly guilty, Zachman and Chambers left New Orleans at about 5 p.m. Wednesday and arrived in Dallas early Thursday morning. 
"We just couldn't believe it," Zachman said. "I have never been so happy to get on a bus. The first thing wn did when we got to the hotel in Dallas was shower and shower a little bit morn, and then sleep because we had been on the bus for so long." 
Tho women flew into South Bend Hngional Airport Thursday night, where they were met by Connolly and Stefaneic. 
"We arn so grateful that all of our friends and family here were so worried about us, but it was just inconvenient for us," Zachman said. "The people that are still down there that are dying. that should be the focus." 
Thn two professors said they worn appalled at the slow relief efforts, and intend to contribute to the city's recovery in various ways in thn following weeks. 
"I think that the response was uncoordinated, and if you think that recently we have spent lots of money on emergency response it was kind of surpris­ing," Chambers said. "People di(~d of thirst and this is America. But really the story is the people down there, what is going on with them, how we ean help them." 
Contact Megan O'Neil onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

FedEx Kinko's opens on catnpus 
By LISA SCHULTZ News Writer 
Notre Dame students, faculty and staff can now meet their copy needs quickly -and more cheaply than ever -at tlH1 campus' new FedEx Kinko's. 
Last spring, a campus com­mittee researched ways to pro­vide copy services more cl'fi­ciently at the request of Executive Vice President John Aflleck-Graves. Members carne up with a revamping of all copy services on campus and the addition of FedEx Kinko's -a solution that "translates to a lower cost per copy for Notre Dame students, faculty and staff," said Dan Skendzel, director of Administrative Services and Business Operations. . While copy centers in Deeio, O'Shaugnessey and Mendoza will remain open, the live copy centers on campus operatnd by different University depart­ments and Copy Wright, Inc.'s Copy Shop in LaFortune are dosed or will be dosing. 
"It is much more eflieient to have one entity operating copy centers on campus," Skendzel said. 
A new FedEx Kinko's is cur­rently located in Grace Ilall and will be renting another location in the space currently occupied by Copy Wright, Inc. in LaFortune beginning around fall break, said Matthew Erste, FedEx Kinko's major account manager. 
Skendzel said the University looked into several options for 
ERIC 

FedEx Kinko's employee Ann Durrell works In the revamped campus copy shop In Grace Hall. 
new printing services on cam­pus before deciding on FedEx Kinko's. 
"FedEx Kinko's was the suc­cessful bidder of three compa­nies that submitted proposals," Skendzel said. "FedEx Kinko's was the most compelling in terms of expertise, service and pricing." 
Even though some ·course packets will still be available though the O'Shaugnessy copy shop, FndEx Kinko's provides a network that allows for course packets to be bought along with regular books at the book­store. Course packets will be available for purchase on insideND and can be picked up at the FedEx Kinko's State Road 23 location ofT campus, Grace llall, LaFortune or the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
"We've tried to sngnwnt tlw market needs but also makn tho campus community awarn that each of theso locations is essnntially interchangnabln," Skendznl said. 
The Gracn llall Fedl\x Kinko's is geared toward high volume copy re-quests, while the LaFortune location will bn morn of a typical rntail location and the Statn Road 23 location is open 24 hours pnr day for late night service. 
At all loeations, Notre Damn students will pay $.04 pnr black and white eopy, down from thn copy shop's eharge of $.OS. Other FedEx Kinko's benefits ineludn online ordering and pick-up at any of'the three locations. 
Contact Lisa Shultz at lschultz@nd.edu 
THE BOS'I'ON CONSULTING GROUP invites you to our 
Information Session 
Tuesday, September 6, 2005 6:00pm to 8:00ptn CCE, McKenna Hall, Room 210 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 5, 2005 
Men 
continued from page 1 
school was rushing to go co­ed," McDonnell said. "Saint Mary's offered a wonderful opportunity to take part in rebuilding a great school and to preserve a diverse kind of institution. While there were certainly differences between single-sex male and single-sex female schools, there was also a great similarity in that no one was putting on a show for what I will call extracurricular bene­fits. Students could be quite frank in class. In contrast to the co-ed college in which I had been teaching, the atmosphere was freer. Also, women partici­pated in class -if the women didn't, who would?" 
It's a woman's world 
Most male professors on campus agree with McDonnell that there are benefits to sin­gle-sex education. Thomas Parisi, a psychology professor at the College since 1980, is one of those professors, though he said teaching at Saint Mary's was "challenging at first." 
"At this point, I would find it odd -and an adjustment -to be in a co-ed classroom," he said. "Young men are more likely to spout on even when they don't have much to say. A dangerous generalization, I know. Let me temper it by say­ing that, as time goes on, most people talk too much, men and women alike. Seriously, though, I think that a product of socialization in high school and grade school is still that boys are reinforced for talking, and girls for fading to. the background. Which is one rea­son why there is still a valid argument to be made for sin­gle sex education." 

College, "/ will admit that I've Although said that become a real supporter of challenges ­
while he and quirks,
women's education through
had ques­such as "stu­tions about what I've experienced dents coming all-female to class in
here." 
education slippers," before com­Abram­
Bill Svelmoe 
ing to Saint Copenhaver Mary's he history professor said -are 



Kelley 
continued from page 1 
graduate with a masters in inter­national studies -left the University and went on to high­profile job in the nation's capital. William McGurn, who graduated from the University in 1980 with a bachelor's degree in philosophy, has since gone on to become President Bush's chief speech­writer. 
"A number of our faculty have served in important Executive Branch positions in recent years," Garnett said. "Our faculty, and our students, should be proud that Professor Kelley was select­ed for a position that involves what is one of the most diverse and difficult portfolios of any legal job in government." 
Garnett said Kelley's new role in the office of Counsel to the President requires him to advise the president on all legal matters and on the legal implication of all policy matters in which the White House has a stake or interest. 
"Basically, the Counsel's office has to advise the President about nearly everything," Garnett said. 
Kelley has the task of ensuring advice given to the President is "developed well and delivered effectively," Garnett said. More specifically, the Counsel's office handles matters of judicial nomi­nations and presidential appoint­ments, pardons and clemency, ethical questions, veto decisions and official-capacity lawsuits against the President. 
The recent promotion is Kelley's latest in an extensive his­tory of occupational experience in Washington. In addition to serv-

Saint Mary's newest male addition, music professor Daniel Party, said he feels Saint Mary's is a good learning environment because of those benefits. 
"In a mixed-sex environ­ment, men and women tend to fall first into traditional gender roles, and only later individual personalities arise," he said. "Without the gender divide, their personalities come out earlier, and it's nice to have female students taking roles that are traditionally occupied by men, like being a leader or 
a  clown,  to  name  two  
extremes."  
History  professor  Bill  

Svelmoe, who taught classes at Notre Dame and Bethel as a graduate student" before com­ing to Saint Mary's, said he 
ferent without men. I'm not sure I ever came up with a sat­isfactory answer to that ques­tion," he said. "Perhaps I had too little experience in mixed classrooms, or perhaps I'm remarkably insensitive. My hunch is that teachers in the sciences might notice more radical differences. I think women historically have been strong in the humanities, so perhaps we notice it less." 
Svelmoe also said the all­female environment is positive for empowering women. 
"Recent research has shown that women even at the lower levels are much more assertive in the classroom now than they used to be, demonstrating that the focus during the past several decades on helping girls assert themselves aca­demically has worked," he said. "Some are even talking now about needing to get boys into all boys' academic envi­ronments to 'protect' them from assertive girls. Go fig­ure." 
Ted Billy, a longtime profes­sor in the College's English department, has taught at not one but two women's colleges, which he said led him to believe strongly in the impor­tance of women's education. 
"I had the good fortune to teach for a year at the College of Saint Benedict, a Catholic, all-women's college, a few years before I came to Saint 

is used to "My daughter just Mary's," he said. teaching all "That experience
graduated from SMC 
women and prepared me well
last May and loved
does not feel a for teaching lack of men in the experience. It classes composed his classrooms. exclusively of
was great seeing her 
"During my female students. I
grow in confidence 
first few years am an equalitari­here I kept ask­while here." an, and I believe ing myself the that educating question of young women is
David Stefancic 
how my class­as vital as educat­
history professor 
room was dif­ing young men." 
has "come to see the great value of the single sex environment." 
"When I was first touring the campus I was going through the scene shop and a student was welding some steel. The student wore a large mask and the sparks were flying as the job was completed. At that point the worker lifted the mask and, to my surprise, was a young woman," he said. "The fact that I was surprised and that I real­ized that in this environment I should not be surprised by such an occurrence went a long way toward helping me to realize the value of studying theater at a women's college." 
Most male professors say their time at Saint Mary's has altered their views on women's issues. 
"Of course, my views on women's issues must have changed, but I have been here long enough that I would put it differently: my views have been shaped in many significant ways by the culture I have been embedded in for the past 25 years," Parisi said. 
History profes­
sor David Stefancic believes in it so deeply that he recently sent his daughter, Regina, to Saint Mary's. 
"My daughter just graduated from SMC last May and loved the experience," he said. "It was great seeing her grow in confidence while here." 
Lessons of ther own 
While Stefancic is teaching the women of Saint Mary's, he said they have also taught him in his time here. 
"Since coming to SMC I have become a better listener, which is oftentimes what my students need. They are great problem solvers but they often need a sounding board for their ideas," he said. "I just received a copy of a book written by one of my ·former students and she credits my mentoring for accomplishing this. I felt rather humbled." 

Theater professor Mark Abram-Copenhaver, whose daughter Tori is a junior at the 
"I will admit that I've become a real supporter of women's education through what I've experienced here," Svelmoe said. "That doesn't mean I'm marching in the streets ... but from what I've seen of the experience of young women here in the classrooms, in ath­letics, in student government ... well, let's just say I hope places like Saint Mary's always exist." 
presented to 
male profes­sors teaching at an all-women's college, the Saint Mary's pro­fessors seem to step up to the plate and swing their hardest. 
"I guess I have learned that the great Tom Hanks line, 'There's no crying in baseball' doesn't apply to a college," Svelmoe said. "I haven't learned yet how to deal with the weeping student in my office." 
Party, who just began to deal with those challenges, said that while he does "find it challeng­ing to try to think like a 19­year-old woman," he is not nec­essarily shocked or over­whelmed by the all-female environment. 
However, Party said he does get ribbed by friends when they find out he teaches at Saint Mary's. 
"I do get laughs and jokes from friends regarding teach­ing at a women's college," he said. "It's always the same joke: "Lucky you!" 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

ing as clerk for Supreme Court Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Associate Justice Antonio Scalia, Kelley worked in the office of Kenneth Starr during the his­toric President Clinton impeach­ment trial of 1999. Kelley also served in the Department of Justice from 1991 to 1993, work­ing as assistant to the solicitor general. 
A.J. Bellia, a pr<lfessor in the Notre Dame law school, called Kelley's most recent appointment an "honor." 
"Professor Kelley is a shining example of how the relentless pursuit of competence and serv­ice combine to produce the best that the legal profession has to offer," Bellia said. 
A 1984 graduate of Marquette University, Kelley earned his degree in law from Harvard University in 1987 before joining the Law School faculty in 1995. This year, U.S. News & World Report ranked Notre Dame No. 24 on its annual list of top law programs nationwide. 
"The appointment testifies to Professor Kelley's brilliance and devotion to public service," Bellia said. "It also reflects well upon our law school's reputation for excellence and commitment to public service." 
Garnett hopes Kelley will return to Notre Dame and share his new privileged perspective with his colleagues. 
"We at the law school are proud of Professor Kelley, and look forward to his return, so we can learn whether the real West Wing is like the one on NBC," he said. 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay, or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
Wednesday, September 7, 2005 7:30PM 118 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15,2005 Academic Year 2006-2007 Fall2006-Spring 2007 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 5, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Housing project fire kills 15 in Paris 
L'IIAY-LES-IWSES, France -Firelighters treating survivors at a housing project lire that killed 15 people Sunday were pelted with stones by youths complaining or a tardy rnsponse, in what the mayor called a "night of horror." 
l'olico said it appeared local youths wore to blamn for the pro-dawn fire in the 19­story project south of Paris _ the third deadly blazn in the Paris ama in the past nine days. Tlw dead included tlm~e children. 
Arson was suspected in the two earlier lims as well. 
Hesidents scrnamml and leapod from win­dows in the liro that Mayor Patrick Seve said began around I a.m. in tho town of L'llay­lns-Hoses, near Orly airport. 
lbree people killed in Saudi clashes 
HIYADII. Saudi i\rabia -Police fought run­ning gun battles with al-Qaida militants in an nastnrn Saudi Arabian city on Sunday in dashes that killnd two extrnmists and a police ollker, a Saudi ollkial said. 
Thn violencn raged across Dammam, about 250 milns northem;t of' the (~apital Hiyadh, send­ing f'rightmwd rnsichml"> running indoors. 
An Interior Ministry statement said security fon~es were ntrrying out a security operation "against a number of dmnenl"> alliliated to the "deviant group,"' a term that usually rnliws to al­<)aida's branch in this kingdom. 
State-run Saudi TV aimd f(lotage of what it said was the body of' a slain militant slumpnd on a strm~t while wnaring a traditional white Arab gown stained with blood. 
Saudi-own(~d AI-Arabiya satellite TV rnported that militanl"> fin~d a rocket propelled grenade and hurled hand gnmades at security per­somwl and set one police vehicle on liro. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ubraries increase Spanish materials 
DI·:NVEH -On a rainy Saturday, Miereya c:onwz thumbed through a book while her two young sons carried comic books to their father in tho children's section of the city's Cnntntl Public Library. 
"We come lwre mostly for the kids, for books and movies -oducational and enter­tainnwnt -in Spanish and English," Gomez said. 
As thn Spanish-speaking population has grown in the United States, libraries havo tried to ktwp paee by stocking up on books, magazirws and movies. 
In somo plaeos, however, crities say tax­payPr morwy shouldn't be spent on a popula­tion that can include illngal immigrants or on proposals that promote languages other than I·:nglish. 
Hurricane Maria fonns over Atlantic 
MIAMI -Maria int(msilied and developed into tlw season's lirth hurricane on Sunday, growing strongor ovor warm water in tho opnn Atlantic. 
At 5 a.m. 1\I>T, thn storm had maximum sustairwd wind of 75 mph -only I mph higlwr than tlw minimum threshold for hur­riearw status -and was conternd 645 miles sou tlwast of Bnrm uda. 
It. was moving north-northwest at 14 mph, and was oxp(H~tml to turn to the north later Sunday or narly Monday. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Fulton Co. may switch time zones 
IWCIII•:STI~H. Ind. -Thn Fullon County Comrnissiorwrs have voted to ask the U.S. Department of Transportation to place the Nortlwrn Indiana eounty in tl1o Clmtral tim(~ zone. 
At a publk hnaring Thursday, thn commission­ers voted 3-0 to rnmmmend joining the Central time zone, ev(m though tl1n county does not bor­d(~r any of' thn oth(~r Indiana eounties currnntly in that zone. 
"Wn own it to tho poople of our state to raise their m~onomy any way we can," said Hop. Erie c:utwnin, H-Hensselaer. 
Kuwait offers $sao million in aid 
Countries from around the world join together to donate to hurricane relief 
Associated Press 

CAIHO, Egypt  
Donations to Hurricane  
Katrina relief poured in  
from around the world  
Sunday, with Kuwait  
offering $500 million and  
other Mideast countries  
offering aid and condo­ 
lences despite widespread  
opposition to U.S. policies  
in the area.  
But the al-Qaida in Iraq  
group, led by the  
Jordanian Abu Musab al­ 
Zarqawi, called the devas­ 
tation across the U.S. Gulf  
Coast region God's retri­ 
bution on America.  
The European Union  
and NATO also stepped up  
to provide aid following  
rare requests for help  
from Washington, while  
the 22 -member Arab  
League urged cquntries  
across the Middle East to  
"extend aid to the United  
States to face the excep­ 
tional humane circum­ 
stances."  
Spain, Belgium, Britain,  
Germany and Italy·  
announced they had start­ 
ed or were about to send  
aid and experts to the  
U.S. to help with the logis­ 
tical operation of getting  
help to hurricane sur­ 
U.S military personnel load emergency food rations onto a flatbead transportvivors.  
Britain's Ministry of Sunday. Donations from around the world flow Into hurricane ravaged areas.  
Defense said Sunday the  
government would send  us through," Kuwait's  released an Internet  that face natural catastro­ 
500,000 ration packs.  energy minister, Sheik  statement saying "God's  phes and extends most of  
Germany and Italy sent  Ahmed Fahd AI Ahmed AI  great wrath has hit the  the aid they rneeive."  
flights of supplies, includ­ Sabah, said in a state­ head of the oppressors  The United Nations said  
ing food rations, bed sup­ ment.  where their dead are in  Sunday the U.S. had  
plies, inl'latable dinghies  Kuwait's .of'fer includes  thousands and thnir loss­ accepted its ol'fnr of U.N.  
and water purifiers.  $400 million in oif prod­ es in billions."  assistance and expertise.  
The $500 million offer  ucts and $1 00 million in  Bitter U.S. foes Iran and  "A small U.N. coordina­ 
by Kuwait -which owes  humanitarian relief, AI  North Korea -which  tion team is in  
its 1991 liberation from  Sabah's spokesman told  Washington pressured  Washington now consult­ 
sevei1 months of occupa­ The Associated Press.  over their respective  ing with government off'i­ 
tion by Saddam II ussein's  Another close U.S. ally,  nuclea-r programs  cials on how best tho U.N.  
Iraqi army to a U.S.-Ied  the United Arab Emirates,  offered to help rescuo  can complement the  
coalition -is the largest  is sending tents, clothing,  efforts, and Syria - United States' own emer­ 
to date, surpassing the  food and other aid.  another longtime oppo­ gency efforts," said a  
$100 million pledged by  The United States enjoys  nent was among  statement from the U.N.  
Qatar, another U.S. ally in  close relations with most  numerous Middle Eastern  spokesman.  
the Mideast.  GNif states, particularly  states offering condo­ The Paris-based  
"It's our duty as  Kuwait, which was a  lences.  International Energy  
Kuwaitis to stand by_ our  launch pad for the 2003  And Arab League chief  Agency has also said its  
friends to lighten the  invasion of Iraq that top­ Amr Moussa said the  2(Hl1ember nations would  
humanitarian misery and  pled Saddam, and Qatar, a  Arab world should sup­ rnloase the equivalent of 2  
as a pay back for the.  base for tho U.S. military  port tho United States,  million barrels of oil per  
many situations during  in the war's initial stages.  which "always exprnssos  day from strategic  
which Washington helped  But ai-Zarqawi's group  solidarity with nations  reserves.  

Rehnquist burial set for Wednesday 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Chief Justice William Hehnquist's body will lie in repose in the Great Hall of tho Supreme Court on Tuesday and Wednesday and he will be buried at Arlington National Cemetery fol­lowing funeral services Wednesday. 
Tho court announced Sunday that the public will be invited to pay its rospects from 10:30 a.m. EDT until 10 p.m. on Tuesday and from 10 
a.m. until noon on Wednesday. 
Funeral services will be at 2 p.m. at St. Matthew's Cathedral in Washington, D.C., with funeral 
services open to friends and family. The burial at Arlington will be pri­vate. 
In a sensitive ritual, Supreme Court officials and the Military District of Washington coordinated the funeral arrangements with Rehnquist's family. 
Timing and other details were in the hands of the family, said Barbara Owens, a spokeswoman for the Army's Joint Force Headquarters National Capitol Region/Military District of Washington. 
Hehnquist died Saturday at the age of 80 and the Supreme Court announced the arrangements 
Sunday evening. 
The bodies of Hohnquist's two immediate predecessors, Warren E. Burger and Earl Warren, also are buriod at Arlington National ComfJtery. Burger and Warren lay in repose in tho Supremo Court Building before their serviens. 
The casket of' the last chief'justiee to have died, Burger in 1995, was carriod up the marble steps of the building, where it was on public view for 12 hours beforo serviens at National Presbyterian Church. 
President Clinton, the nine nwm­bers of the Supreme Court and four former justices were among the 800 people who attended. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 5, 2005 

Phys-ed 
continued from page 1 
and plan outdoor courses for the 2005-06 school year. 
Gallagher, who has exten­sive wilderness training, is beginning his second year at the College. Though schools in the area -including Saint Mary's -promote intramural sports with a high success rate, Gallagher said he was surprised to find that none available at the College offered any kind of outdoor recreation. 
Kachmarik said outdoor adventures are a terrific way for women to exercise and enjoy themselves. 
"What a great way to show our women, 'Look, there [are) a lot of things you can do outside,"' she said. "This is such a beautiful area· with so many opportunities to do some different things." 
Though these new oppor­tunities are collectively list­ed in the Saint Mary's course book as 'Introduction to Outdoor Sports,' they are actually individual activities and are not offered for cred­it, Gallagher said. Gallagher and Kachmarik are continu­ing to measure student interest in each activity. 
Gallagher said that while initially he was concerned that word of the hike would not spread quickly enough to garner participation from already busy students, he was enthused by student response to Sunday's hike. 
"I thought it was pretty good considering it was the 

first weekend of school," he 
·said. "I hope the results will be [as positive for] the rest of the trips, too," 
Other activities scheduled through early December include an overnight cycling and camping trip on the Illinois and Michigan Canal State Trail Sept. 10-11, a canoeing and kayaking trip down the River Country Heritage Water Trail Sept. 18, indoor climbing at Climb Kalamazoo in Michigan Nov. 6 and downhill 
"What a great way 
skiing at Swiss outing. Valley Ski Area, to show women, "The ulti­also in 'Look, there [are] mate goal of 
Michigan, on these outings
lots ofgreat things 
Dec\ 4. are to provide 
Kachmarik you can do outside.,,, students with and Gallagher new skills said they and self-con­
Lynn Kachmarik 

believe students fidence to

athletic director 

will enjoy these trips and hope for high levels of participation from the­campus. 
"Fifteen women [signed up for] the hike Sund{Ly, and so we could have 15 very dif­ferent women [who] want to go on the canoeing trip and kayaking trip," Kachmarik said. 
Freshman Taryn Pabst, who attended the hike with some of her neighbors and roommate from McCandless Hall, said she enjoyed the trip and is likely to partici­pate in more outdoor cours­es this year. 
"The hike overall was a lot of fun and I thought every­one came well-prepared," Pabst said. "I would defi­nitely take advantage of department's main priority is catering to the women of Saint Mary's, Kachmarik is open to the idea of male participants if the activity is not overnight. 
other  trips  that  may  be  
offered."  
Though  the  athletic  

"We want to try to accom­modate everyone," she said. 
Safety is also an issue. Students are asked to fill out a liability release before they are per­mitted to attend the 
experience 
the outdoors 
safely and responsibility, and with curiosity to further educate themselves about each activity," Gallagher wrote in his course description. 
Kachmarik also stressed the opportunities these activities provide for stu­dents. 
"My feeling is ... it's a great option for those stu­dents [in that] it's not all about partying," she said. "This is a perfect alternative to a different social life than what has typically been offered at Saint Mary's on a Saturday night." 
Contact Lisa Gallagher at lastlgallaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Football 
continued from page 1 
were glued to television sets -and Irish eyes were smil­ing. 
Freshman Alex Gonzalez, who went between his dorm and the North Quad to watch the game, was among the crowd of adrenaline-packed fans. 
"That was Irish football at its best," he said. "It was good payback from last year. [Tyler] Palko took a beating. It was awesome." 
"We never questioned the play calls," said senior Vince Lyzinski, who made the trip to Pittsburgh to support the team. He said there were about as many Irish fans as Panthers fans at the game. 
''I'd say it was 50-50," he said. 
Much of the Irish fan sec­tion was comprised of hun­dreds of members of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Pittsburgh and current stu­dents who braved high gas prices and a six-hour drive to get to the game. Pumping up the crowd was the Band of the Fighting Irish, which chose the season opener as the first of its two away game trips. 
Cindi Sulzbach, a freshman band member, said the stu­dent section was extremely supportive. 
"Our offense was amazing ... [All the Pittsburgh fans] left after halftime. There 
were  all green shirts," she  
said.  
•  


Like many at Notre Dame, Lyzinski and Sulzbach have high hopes for the team's future. Both said Saturday night's game just helped to affirm what they already felt. 
"I've had them winning the national championship since day one," Lyzinski said. 
While thinking about a championship may be prema­ture, it is already in the minds of the students, and the atmosphere on campus following the game shows students are as pumped as ever for the upcoming season. 
"They say that after they re-gild the Dome we win a National Championship," Sulzbach said. 
Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis also earned instant praise for his debut on the college field. 
"Everybody likes the way Weis is running the offense," sophomore Brandon Carroll said. "lie was taking care of [the mistakes] on the side­lines. lfe 's strict." 
Junior Thomas Flowers also said he liked the way Weis handled the team in his first game and believes Weis will continue to lead Notre Dame to victory. 
"The play calling was vastly improved ... The game was a morale booster. There's a lot more emotion on the side­lines," Flowers said. "We can't let up, especially against Michigan and USC. [Weisl won't settle for the players doing anything less than the best. He runs a busi­ness." 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 

Each concession stand group must have at least two stude:nts trained ·)!-All training from the spring is stiH valid for the 2.005 Footha11 season 
Questions? ,Jcnntfer nnoer 
Student Adiuities Office jrager1(fim.d.mlu 
Tl..f EOBSERVER 


USINESS
Monday, September 5, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,447.37 -12.26

}ones 
lJfl: Same: Down: Composite Volum 2,002 141 '~ 2,246,601,210 
_, .lll!!tml3'.. t

AMEX 1,680.04 
:~.:1.~: 

NASDAQ 2,141.07 -6.83 NYSE 7,531.13 ~12.72 S&PSOO 1,2 UL02 -3.57 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) Ii,589.98 ·~10..02 FTSE IOO(London) 5,326.80 -1.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) -0.39 -0.15 38.7: MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.66 -0.18 27.0: INTEL CP (INTC) +0.08 +0.02 25.21 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.40 +0.07 17.7: ORACLE CORP(ORCL) +0.60 +0.08 13.3' 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.07 +0.03 42.9 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.25 +0.1 0 40.2' 5-YEAR NOTE +0.44 +0.17 38.3' 3-MONTH BILL +0.36 +0.12 33.7 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.90 67.5 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.00 448.5 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.30 81.0 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 09.720 EURO 0.797 POUND 0.543 CANADIAN$ 1.188 
IN BRIEF 
Crude oil and gasoline end lower 
NEW YOHK -Crude-oil and gasoline futuros fell hard Friday, as traders who profitnd enormously on the supply crunch following Hurricane Katrina eashed out of the marknt ahead of the long weekend. 
"There are traders who made so mueh monoy this week, they won't have to punch another lieket for tho rest of this year," said Addison Armstrong, manager of exchange­tradod markets for TFS Energy Futures LLC, a brokerage in Stamford, Conn. 
Tho abbreviatod trading session, which ended <Ln hour and a half early in obser­vaneo of Monday's Labor Day holiday, proved a good time to book profits amid signs of major supply relief, traders said. 
Benehmark light, sweet crude oil futures for Octobnr settled down $1.90 at $67.57 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exehange, about $1.50 above pre-Katrina priens. 
Economic concerns intensify 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street slogged through an uneven session Thursday, fin­ishing mixed as investors grappled with troubling consumer spending patterns, slower growth from the manufacturing soctor and the latest news of Hurricane Katrina's damago. 
Investors saw a disturbing trend in the Commerce Department's consumer income and spnnding report. While consumer sponding rosn by a solid 1 percent in July, ineornos roso just 0.3 percent. Peopln spent morn than they earnod for just tho sncond tinw in 46 ynars, and tho nation's savings ratn fnll to thn lowost level ever roeordod. 
Thn nation's manufacturing snctor also saw an unnxpnctnd slowdown. with thn lnslilulo for Supply Management's manu­facturing index falling to 5:~.(~ in August from 5(J.6 the prnvious month. 
Yet tho losses were minimal, and volumn was nxtrenwly lwavy for a market still struggling through Wall Stroot's summer doldrums-a sign that invostors were still willing to buy stocks, even if they didn't quite know wfwre to put thoir monoy, as rnflnetnd in volatile pricos. 
Katrina takes a toll at the pumps 
Holiday weekend travelers opt to carpool as gas prices soar over $3 per gallon 
Associated Press 
Traffic was light on Atlanta highways Saturday and gas stations that were fortunate enough to have fuel were still charging more than $3 a gallon. In West Virginia, 10 percent of stations ran out of at least one grade of gas. And in Colorado, motorists were encouraged to drive less. 
The holiday weekond got ol'f' to a bumpy start for some travelers as the after­math of llurrieane Katrina eon tin ued to take its toll at the pump in many parts of the country live days after the storm ripped through · the Gulf Coast. 
"I hear a lot of people say they feel guilty going to the beach or going eamping when our neighbors in bor­dering states are affected forever," said Trooper Larry Schnall. a Georgia State Patrol spokesman. "Trallic is light. I've seen very few out-of-state tags today." 
For thoso who did plan to lake trips, seattored fuel shortages causqd in part by panicked drivers topping ofT their tanks and record-high prices at stations that did have gas weren't making things fun on the nation's roads. 

"Everybody came in here with every car they had and Neuhart blamed the fuel facilities, but eight Gulf lions in southeastern took everything we had in shortage on "more rumor Coast relineries and several Wisconsin. At a Chevron the ground," said Kip and gossip than anything natural gas processing station in Miami where pre­Nouhart, manager of a else. People are panicking, plants remained out of serv­mium and mid-grade gas Chevron station in Marietta, and there's no reason for ice at the start of the week­was unavailablo, tho pumps Ga. "It took a while to get it." end. were covered with whito restocked." A spokeswoman for U.S. gasoline production plastic, and only pumps 
When the station did get a Colonial Pipeline Co., which is down by about 40 million serving regular gas were shipment of gas on carries gasoline, home heat­gallons a day, or 10 percont available. In Alabama, a Saturday, a day after run­ing oil and jet fuel through of consumption, and it could gasoline shortage could ning out, it asked only for points from Houston to New be weeks before the keep some people off the regular gasoline because York, said Saturday that the region's refining capacity is beaches and roads this not many people were buy­pipeline was at 73 percent back to normal, analysts Labor Day woekend. ing mid-grade and premium capacity on gasoline and said. Before the storm, the While gas prices hogan to blends, Neuhart said. The distillate lines and expected Gulf Coast accounted for drop ovor the weekond in station, which was charging to be back to normal opera­around 30 percent of U.S. West Virginia, about 10 per­$3.09 a gallon for regular, tions by the end of the holi­crude production and about cent of stations in the state also was limiting drivers to day weekend. 25 percent of its natural were out of at least one 10 gallons per yehicle. . "The picture is a very gas. A large portion of the grade of gas on Friday, said 
Across the street, a BP good one," spokeswoman oil imported into the U.S. Jan Vineyard of tho West station was still out of gas Susan Baranski said. "All also moves through the Virginia Oil Marketers and Saturday, though the man­product is being moved." region. Grocers Assoeialion, which ager said a shipment was Electricity provider Beyond Georgia, panic represents the majority of expected in by the after­Entergy Corp. has restored buying also caused spot the state's 1 .:~00 service sta­noon. power to some key energy shortages at some gas sta-tions. 

Lily to cover half of its new claims 
chotic. erage to Lilly on terms and condi­
Associated Press 

Four of the insurers are fighting tions substantially difTerr.nt." 
INDIANAPOLIS -Eli Lilly and Co. Lilly's lawsuit, liled in March in fed­"Lilly knew Zyproxa representod a wants its insurers to cover half of eral court in Indianapolis. They serious liability exposure to it and to the $1 billion it has set aside to pay argue Lilly bought liability coverage any insuror that providod cow~rago product-liability claims involving the for Zyprexa in 2000 without disclos­to Lilly," said SH International company's top-selling drug Zyprexa. ing that it knew then the drug could Business lnsuranco Co., one of tho 
The amount Lilly seeks from the cause harmful, diabetes-related side companies Lilly is suing. insurers was conlir~ed this weok by olTects in some users. The others are North American the Indianapolis-based drug maker, Jliding that information was "egre­Specialty lnsuranco Co., Winterthur which is suing live of its insurors to gious" behavior by Lilly and voids Schweizorischo Versicherungs A<;, force them to pay. Previously, the the coverage, the insurers say in Gerling-Konzorn Allgemeine information had been partially court motions. Versicherungs AG, and ELCO detailed in court records. The insurers argun that if thoy had lnsuranen Co. 
A $500 million payout by insurers known about Zyprexa's serious sidn All but ELCO havo rnfusod to pay would help covor the $1.07 billion effocts, thny "would not have agreed daims Lilly has submitlnd to reim­Zyprexa-relatod write-off Lilly took to insure Lilly at all. would have burse it for legal bills and other costs in the second quarter regarding excluded coveragn for Zyprexa ... or relatnd to Zyproxa pmduct-liability claims over the popular anti-psy-would have provil;led insurance cov-litigation. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 
Monday, September 5, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Homeland insecurity
The lndeptmdnll, Daily NttW.tpap~tr St:r11ing No~ Damt: 4nd Saim .Mary's 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 

Ao DESIGN MANAGER: jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 ohservad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK . 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
sm~.1 @nd.edu· 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing F.ditors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Q=tions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observt:r (USPS '599 2-4000) ill published Monday thr-()ugh Friday ex<:ept during exam and vaooitm perio4l. A subscription to The Obs~f\o'Ct is: $100 fur one ~demic ye...r; $55 for tme s:emcster. 
The Ob$Crvt:r i$ published at: POSTMNiTER 

024 South Dining Hall Stnd address oomx:dom-t.o: 
Norre Dame. IN 46556-on9 The ()bs;erver 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame ~0. Box779 

and .ldd.iliona.l mailing Qffices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nout Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Pres!!. All reprodu~icin. dghts. .ar-e t~crvcd. 
My name is Peter Schroeder, and I'm from a town. No, I'm not from a suburb, or from "around" anywhere. I'm from a town. 
Beginning with Freshman Orientation, we all know the experi­ences of introduc­tions. 1. Your name, 2. Your major, 3. Your dorm, 4. Where you're from. The first three ques­tions are gimmes. Everybody knows where Dillon Hall is, or what a Marketing major does (and no, it's not nothing, funny man). but with that last one, it's all up for grabs. Being that Notre Dame is a national campus with students from across the country and the world, one always answers that last question with an assumption in mind. One always assumes that this person is from somewhere far, far away from your home, and one must be as gener­al as possible. 
Why be general? If you have to ask, you're not from a town. In the begin­ning of a towner's college career, the optimism and pride of their homeland is evident. Ask a freshman where they're from, and they'll tell you the name of their town. its approximate distance from the nearest place you may have heard of, and then draw you a topographical map on your forearm. 
However, the life of a towner is a grueling one. Every single time some­one asks where you're f~;om, you have to submit yourself to the Spanish Inquisition, as people try to ascertain where your stupid shack in the woods is. The name of your town is always 

Peter Schroeder 
Wzll Write for Food 
met with the same blank stare that says, "I have never heard of that place; therefore, I hate you." 
Eventuallyyou'll see some town.ers who have just given up, the ones that are perfectly willing to lambaste their own town before you can. Ask them where they're from, and you usually get responses like, "Elizabethtown, Pennsylvania, you've never heard of it," or "Prophetstown, Illinois, it's just a rinky-dink town in the middle of nowhere," or "Milburn, New Jersey, it smells funny." These people are ones who.have given up on their towns, and it's only a matter of time until they forgo naming their town at all and opting for vague geographical generalities. 
The best example of these generali­ties is the "near Chicago" squad. While Notre Dame is a national cam­pus, a large chunk of its student body hails from the Midwest, especially Illinois. As such, when going around and telling hometowns, there is prob­ably a one in five chance that some­body will be from "near Chicago." 
Alright, near Chicago, that must be near Chicago, right? Well, that's what you would think. "Near Chicago" basi­cally is a term that translates to "the Central Time Zone, possibly Mountain." People who claim to live in this abundantly populated area could live as much as three hours from Chicago, and still claim their nearness. People, it's time to stop hid­ing in the shadow of the Sears Tower. Embrace your townitude! 
I have a confession to make; I too was once part of the "nearest recog­nizable name" rabble, although Pittsburgh was my crutch. In Theology 100 my freshman year, we had to go around the room and intro­duce ourselves in the standard boiler­plate fashion. It got to me, and fearing the blank stares of unfamiliarity with my backwoods village, I took the easy way out and said, "Pittsburgh." 
Of course, in Theology, there was no­way the Big Man was going.to let me get away with that one. Two student introductions later, a girl stated that she too was from Pittsburgh. Naturally, our professor asked if we knew each other. The shame I felt, in Theology class no less! It was on that day I resolved; never again will I hide behind cities with NFL franchises and skyscrapers and Barnes and Nobles, and embrace my hometown. You've never heard of Johnstown, Pennsylvania? You better learn, because that's where I'm from! 
Towns have plenty to offer, even if they won't light the bulb above every­one's head. For example, my home­town, Johnstown, is the Flood Capital of the World, with historic floods in 1889, 1936, and 1977. It is also the filming location of the movie Slap Shot, and home of the world's steepest motorized vehicular inelined plane. No town is too small to not have something to be proud of. Hoople, Illinois, population 98, is home to the new University of Wisconsin football coach, Bret Bielema. 
So I say to you, Observer readers, don't hedge your bets anymore and just spit out the name ol' the nearest metropolis, get a hold of your town's name and never let go. Join me in the llght against townism, and let's defeat common town stereotypes. No, we don't all wear overalls, and no, we don't play jugs for fun. And for the last time, she's just my cousin. 
Peter Schroeder is a senior English major. His favorite word is "ennui." He can be e-mailed at pschroed@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY

Nicole Zook Kate Gales Kelly Meehan Ken Fowler 
~· b. •,t I tt ~· 
Viewpoint Anna Fricano What are you doing 
~u )IDI•· a.Le •· ier ~ 
"Motivation is everything. You can do the
.... ... ... .... .... ····· ... .... .. ... I
Becca Rosswurm Scene to help Hurricane 
work of two people, but you can 't be two 
Graphics Molly Griffin 
people. Instead, you have to inspire the

Katrina relief? 
next guy down the line and [/et him to
Matt Hudsan 
inspire his people.

to tbe Editor at I
···.. ..: ·-!· ~;. '·· >:··=.-·.=··· ..•. ·,.. .... ·• ·.,,,, ·.:. ..., '<·. ··: ~ 
Leelacocca


www.ndsmcobserver.com I 
American businessman 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
r---------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Monday, September 5, 2005 page 9 
Running the University like a business 
A long-tinw friend and eollect).,TUe has bonn appointed Prosident of the University of Notrn Dame. I wish you well, John, in nvnry rnspnet, and am eonlident that the Univnrsity will flourish under your stew­ardship. Kenneth 
Thn eorning of a new Sayre prnsident is a fitting occasion for a commu­
Guest 

nity-wide eonvorsation Columnist on tho path ND might fi1llow in tho years alwad. This Iotter is intended as a contri­bution to such a eonversation. It will eome in fi1ur installmenl<>. troating four closely related topies. The first concerns the issue of whether the University should be run as a commercial enterprise. 
Your presidency got oil" to an auspicious start with the announcement in early July that ND will part company with its com­mereial TV station WNDU. The reason quotnd in the South Bend Tribune is that commercial broadcasting "is not our busi­nnss ... What we do instead is run a uni­VIlrsity." The question at this point is how your adminis­
"A recent estimate is 
tration will deal with other 

problmns stemming from that for-profit schools thn University's involvement currently serve 600,000 with eommoreial interesL'i. students in this country 
NI> is not alone in fadng alone. These students such problmns. You have 
are eligible for federal 
taken the holm at a time 

Pell grants and often
whnn higher education gen­

for state-sponsored 
erally is bdng bull"eted by 

scholarships. which
marknt forees. One prob­

cuts into funds
lem has to do with 

available for student 
incrnased dnpendence on 

support at non-profit
llw business sector for linandng. Pharmaceutical institutions like ND." 
and biotedmology firms, for nxampl!l, often form allianees with universities in which research results are exchanged for the funding of equipment, graduate assis­tanL<>, and faculty supervision. While such arrangmnenL<> bring obvious benefits, the long-term result is that university rnsearch programs t1md to be dominated by commercial agendas. 
Another emerging problem comes with eompetition from a growing number of for-profit schools, particularly in the fields of business and medical technology. A rncent estimate is that for-profit schools eurmntly serve 600,000 students in this eountry alone. These students are eligible fi1r lilderal Poll granL<>. and often for state­sponsornd seholarships, which cuts into funds available for student support at non­profit institutions like ND. Admission poli­eies in career schools are shaped entirely by market forees, putting pressure on non­profit universities to follow suit. 
Consider also the burgeoning field of so-called "distanee education," whieh boils down to oiTering courses on-line. With an initial investment in digital equipment and photogenic faculty, an established univer­sity could draw tuition money from thou­sands upon thousands of students world­wide. Without the overhead of dassrooms and other campus facilities, distance edu­eation has the potential of being enor­mously profitable. Aecording to Derek Bok, former president of I larvard (in his recent Universities in the Marketplace), such prestigious universities as Columbia, Chieago, and Carnegie Mellon have already embarked on ventures of this sort. 
It would be naive to assume that ND is immune to economic pressures like these. Viewed from one perspective, ND has a product to sell (iL<> degree), a well-defined base of potential customers, and a skillful­ly managed marketing program to make the product attractive. In the abstract, it seems natural that ND be run in a way that maximizes effectiveness in the sale of its particular product. In practice, this 
would amount to running the University like a degree­granting business. 
Indeed, the University has several key components that seem to be run in this fash­ion already. Notable exam­ples are the Development Office and the Investment Office, which quite reason­ably are expected to show a healthy profit at the end of each accounting period. Examples of a different sort are Human Resources and the Controller's Office, which function more or less like their corporate counter­parts. Under the discipline tion providing a prod­ty of the academie record it rep­
"The point to be 
uct to a select group of resenL'>. Since quality of an aca­
debated is not whether 
consumers. My own demic record is measured in 
we need an efficiently
view is that it should terms of grade averages, an
managed Development
not. There are various untoward consequence of the 
Office, Investment
reasons to be offered model is a tnndency to sweeten 
Office and the like. Of
in support o this view. the product by giving unde­One reason has to do course we do." servedly good grades. This is a 
ofthe Controller, all revenue-generating operations of the University are held accountable to the bottom-line (consider Food Services and the Joyce Center). 
Also to be noted is the fact that many of the top officers of the University have a business background, and that the Board of Trustees tends to be dominated by busi­ness exeeutives. The net result is that a sizeable portion of the people responsible for setting University policy think and act like corporate executives. This can only add to the external forces acting to trans­form ND into a business enterprise. 
There is little likelihood, of course, that the University will ever be operated pri­marily to make a profit. This would void its tax-exempt status. More likely is that it will come to be managed exclusively in the manner of successful businesses, which is to say run according to a managerial model. This would amount, among other things, to treating its students like cus­tomers, its faeulty like employees, and its managers as ultimately responsible for its institutional well-being. 
There undoubtedly are some members of the University (mostly faculty) who feel we have gone too far along this path already. Others may differ. But all con­cerned parties should agree that the time is ripe for a comprehensive discussion of the extent to which the managerial model is compatible with our educational mis­sion. 
The point to be debated is not whether we need an efficiently managed Development Office, Investment Ollice and the like. Of course we do. The question at issue is whether, for purposes both of long-term planning and of day-by-day operation, the University should be con­ceived as an organiza­
with the conception of a ND education (and the degree symbolizing it) as a product. To be sure, there is a sense in which the training provided by a for-profit career school is a product. A diploma from such a program equips its holder to seek employment in the relevant field, which often is a benefit worth paying for. To some extent, the same may be said of professional training in law or business provided by ND and similar universities. Even in such fields, however, NO's sense of mission should extend beyond professional training. 
First and foremost, the goals of a ND education should be thought of in terms of the personal maturity of its students. This is the case without regard for field of spe­cialization. For engineers, scientists, and business people alike, growth in personal maturity is a matter of gaining life-skills like critical thinking, multicultural sensi­tivity, and responsible citizenship. In keep­ing with the intent of its C.S.C. founders, ND should also concentrate on the devel­opment of personal traits like compassion and humility, along with other virtues ingredient to a mature Catholic faith. 
The first reason for rejecting a business model of University governance is that life­skills of this sort simply are not products that can be exchanged on the market. Professional skills can be marketed to qualified buyers, and a university can be managed for efficiency in that transaction. But responsible citizenship, compassion, and such like, are not professional skills. The kind of edueation ND should bn intent on providing, accordingly, eannot be accommodated by a managerial model. 
Other reasons li1r rojoeting this model concern untoward side-ellixts that go along with its employment. .Consider, for example, ND's seemingly obsessive con­cern with publicity. not unlike that of a business intent on maintaining a favorable public appearanee. One may be exeused for wondering why, ~-,riven the quality of education it should be providing, the University is so preoccupied with a care­fully managed publk image. 
Another concern is the em~et of the busi­ness model upon grading. In the business world, success in selling a product hinges on customer satisfaetion. When the prod­uct is a university degree, iL<> perceived 
value is bound up with the quali­
major source of the current epi­
dmnic of grade inflation. 
A dosely rnlated matter is the need for a purveyor of a product to make a favorable impression on potential con­sumers. Under the business model, dass­rooms teachers are eommonly thought of as salespersons and evaluated aeeordingly. A problem with ND's current system of Teacher-Course Evaluations (TCEs) is that it measures eustomer satisf'aetion rather than success in imparting skills that are part of a sound education. This rnsuiL'i in teaehers being rewarded or penalized for reasons that might be extraneous to tho University's mission. 
Excessive preoceupation with public image, grade inflation, and misleading TCEs are all by-producL<; of the University's drift toward commercializa­tion. Each will be treated at more length in further installments of this letter. Sullice it for now to say that in the years ahead your administration will eome to be known by the way it responds to problems of this sort. 
Kenneth Sayre is a professor of philosophy. This column is the first in a four-part series addressed to new University President Father John Jenkins. 
Kenneth Sayre can be contacted at ksayre@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 

LETIER TO THE EDITOR 

Take that, Mr. Grant 
Please eonsider this a response to the squalid tripe I suppose was intended to pass as a column by Alan Grant, which was posted on ESPN.com on Sept. 2. 
Surely there had to be a better way to drive up sales for your book than an unfounded diatribe about Notre Dame's supposed irrelevance, arrogance and false snnse of tradition. After reading your column, I felt eompelled to set you straight on a few points, including your assertion that Notre Dame was wrong in dismiss­ing eoach Tyrone Willingham after just three seasons, insinuating that the decision was related to something other than the W-1. count and even perhaps in part racially motivated. 
You just don't get it, Mr. Grant. We all wanted to get behind Ty. We wanted him to be "The One," the eoach who would finally resurrect our football program and propel our "Heturn to Glory." Just look at the "Sea of Green" at Notrn Dame Stadium on football Saturdays during Willingham's tenure or the "I lheartl Ty" shirts sold on eampus. Unfortunately, and you may not realize this Mr. (;rant, a football coach's job is, among other things, to win liwtball games. Of course it wasn't 
enough that Willingham "invested himself in the job, visited the dorms and spoke passionately about the program," not with our record in shambles! Sometimes, hiring and firing decisions are about unsat­isfactory results, not integrity. 
But while we're on the subject of integrity, allow me to remind you that you attended a university whose band has been banned from Notre Dame Stadium indefinitely for maligning the Catholic religion. And, in case you forgot, the band was also at one time prevent­ed from playing at Stanford home games against ND for joking about the potato famine, a tragedy that took the lives of an estimated 500,000 to one million Irish. In light of the recent events in the American South, I'd say poking fun at a catastrophe that wreaked immeasura­ble havoc on the Irish nation is a bit worse than prema­turely firing a football coach. 
As for your assessment of the Irish as, what was it?. "J. Crew wearing yuppie larvae," I don't see how this ad hominem attack on a group of people with whom you are largely unfamiliar strengthens your argument. Hather than hurling invectives at us, why not back up your position with some legitimate faets? 
If Notre Dame is irrelevant, why is it that I can't so 
much as leave my apartment wearing a Notre Dame T­
shirt without eliciting some sort of reaction from 
passers by, whether it's a drunk twenty-year-old rolling 
down a cab window to yell "Notre Dame sucks" or a 
stranger yelling "Go Irish!"? Fact is, whether you love 
us or hate us, we are relevant. Don't you think the fact 
that you dedicated a 1400-word eolumn to ND (as well 
as a 304-page book) is a testament to that? 
I could say more, but the .idea of reading your "arti­cle" one more time makes me physieally ill. So I'll end with this: 
• The Irish will rise again, Mr. Grant. Maybe not this year. Maybe not next year. But it will happen. And when it does, we won't care that you don't earn. Notrn Dame is about tradition, and the fact that you don't understand it doesn't make it any less real. 
Kathleen O'Leary Alumnus Class of 2004 

-~----------------------. 


I THE OBSERVER 
I 
CENE
page 10 Monday, September 5, 2005 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Leaving Las Vegas 
Toxic Audio impresses with wide range of vocal abilities 
an extended version of the song, "TurnBy LIZ BYRUM the Beat Around." The group's beat­
Assistanr Scene Editor 
boxer extraordinaire, Paul Sperrazza, stole the number when he broke into an amazing beat box routine that

On Friday night, the Leighton 
made it hard to believe he was onlyConcert hall felt more like it was in Las using his mouth. 

Vegas, Nev. than Notre Dame, Ind. 
The mixture of musical genres heldThe group Toxic Audio, which is 

the audience's attention throughout

gaining recognition and recently the show because they never knew
played its first Las Vegas show at the what they were going to hear next. ALuxor Hotel on Aug. 19, made a one­
cover of the Beatles' "Paperback

night appearance on campus and blew Writer" had people moving in their
the crowd away with its amazing vocal 
seats and was even accompanied by

stretches, harmonies and theatrical 
James juggling a few paperback books.
performance. 
One of the more theatrical conceptsToxic Audio, founded in 1998, has of the night occurred when a womanspent the last few years performing in was brought on stage to "watch TV"New York City and other areas of the 

with the group. A remote controlU.S. for various audiences. After a 

clicked the performers went throughbreak this Christmas, the group will 

different television theme songs.

travel to Japan for a six-week tour. 
The end of this performance includ­

The group has also made appearances ed two of the group members takingat various universities and schools of off their shirts and dancing behind the
music, but Friday was its first visit to 
woman from the audience. This was
Notre Dame. 
an amusing touch for the older mem­Toxic Audio can sing in a wide range bers of the crowd but may have been aof octaves and in a wide range of lan­little much for the under-10 audienceguages, as well. In one song Friday, that had been seen filing into the the­

Michelle Mailhot-Valines-the group's atre with their parents.
bubbly blonde soprano -sang a song The show was a successful start to Jeremy James freestyled a rap made 
No matter what crazy antics Toxicthat jumped between Korean, German, the DeBartolo Center for the up of words audience members chose Audio performed on the stage, they

Pig Latin and other languages without Performing Arts' second season. A out of a book. Cheers erupted when continued to amaze with their sound-
missing a beat. large crowd filled Leighton Concert James finished the rap with a rhyme 
making abilities. TheAs the members of Toxic Audio took Hall Friday evening, about Notre 

on searing guitar solos,
their spots with audience Dame. One animal noises and
stage, people all members from member of The mixture of around the theatre "It's great looking Notre Dame and Toxic Audio the audience incredible harmonies 
Vocal Group: Toxic Audio musical genres left a feeling of won­
were shocked at out at the crowd at the South Bend called James'
Date: Saturday, Sept. 3 
the sounds the community. w i f e , held the audience's der and amazement
this time and Venue: DeBartolo Center for 
with the crowd as

singers were mak­A few of the Shalisa's, attention
sensing their the Performing Arts the performers exit­
ing purely with people in the performance their voices. Toxic discovery. " audience even got of "Stand by throughout the ed Leighton Concert Audio founder Rene the chance to spend some time Me" "the most beautiful ver­show, because they Hall. 
It's obvious that

Ruiz said the open­on stage with the group. During sion of that song I've ever never knew what 
Rene Ruiz Toxic Audio mem­
ing number is one the skits that Toxic Audio per­heard." _ 
they were going to
of his favorites performer formed, one of the singers came Ruiz showcased his bass bers are doing so 
hear next. well in Las Vegas
because it "intro­down into the audience, grabbed voice with a mock string bass 
because they know

duces the audience an unsuspecting audience mem-solo. Ruiz also took part in 
what they're doing,

to what we're going to do." ber and helped him onstage. many skits throughout the and they are doing it well.
"It's great looking out at the crowd at Each member of the group was given show that had the audience roaring this time and sensing their discovery," the chance to showcase their special with laughter. he said. talents at some point during the show. The final number of the evening was Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 



Toxic Audio members Jeremy James and Michelle Mailhot-Valines reveal that Singer Paul Sperrazza shows off his moves, while performing with the group. The the group's eclectic sense transcends music and inspires their fashion as well. group often ad-libs and includes audience members on stage during its show. 






NSIDER 
~HE 

Monday, September 5, 2005 vtiSERVER Notre Dame 42, Pittsburgh 21 
Strong start in Steel City 
Quinn excels as Irish score 28 second-quarter points in Weis' debut 
By MIKE GILLOON Spons Editor 
PITTSBUHGII -Just after 
midnight on Sunday, Dave 
Wannstedt emerged from 
Ilninz Field with his tie 
undone, rubbing his brow -a 
first-year head eoaeh and 
Pittsburgh alum trying to fig­
ure out what had just hap­
pened. 
1\ game intended as the cele­l>ration of a head eoach's return to his alma mater went terribly wrong for Wannstedt, at least. 
Notrn Dame scored five first­
half touchdowns to roll over 
No. 23/25 Pittsburgh Saturday 
night, 42-21, as Notre Dame 
graduate Charlie Weis earned 
his first win as Irish head 
<~oad1. 
Notre llame quarterback Bmdy Quinn ran an <d"fieiont pro-style of"fnnse, eompleting 14-of-l{J passes for 197 yards in the first half to give the Irish a 35-13 eushion at the break. 
"To be honest with you, I wasn't trying to look at the seoreboard much," Quinn said. "I just wanted to go out there and keep pushing, keep driving 
•weryone. We just happened to have a great night." 
Darius Walker keyed the Irish oiTensive explosion, haul­ing in an opening-drive screen pass from Quinn and running 51 yards down the sideline for Notre Dame's first touchdown. 
Pittsburgh opened the scor­ing and appeared on the right track in Wannstedt's debut when quarterback Tyler Palko hooked up with all-Big East wide receiver Greg Lee for a 38-yard touchdown pass to cap an eight-play, 73-yard opening drive. 
But the Notre Dame defense adjusted. 
/\n Irish secondary that ranked No. 116 in the nation against the pass last season did not allow Lee to catch another ball until 7:59 remained in the third quarter, with the Irish ahead 42-13. 
"The defense, after they got their feet wet ... played pretty well," Weis said. 
/\nd just as the Pittsburgh off•mse stalled, Notre Dame aceelerated behind Weis' play­calling that exposed the weak­nesses in the Panthers' defense. Pittsburgh returned three starters from last season in the secondary, but the departure of defensive tackles Vinee Crochunis and Dan Stephens was evident as the Irish ran for 275 yards. seven. The secondary really Down 10-7 after a 49-yard 

"I have as much respect [as] wasn't that much of a problem Josh Cummings field goal for anyone for Pittsburgh," Weis to me because everything was Pitt with 1:40 remaining in the said. "But they had a bunch of play~~g from tight end to tight first quarter, the Irish took uncertainties in their front end. over at their own 35. Quinn hit wide receiver Rhema McKnight in stride for 27 yards after a fake reverse, and Walker com­pleted the drive seven plays later -freezing Pitt corner­back Josh Lay with a stutter step and strolling into the end zone for a 2-yard touchdown run. 
Tho Irish then forced a Panther punt, and Tom Zbikowski's return put the Irish again at their own 35. Five minutes later, Notre Damn had seored two touchdowns. The first was courtesy of full­back Hashem Powers-Neal's one-yard burst over the goal line. 
The second was a diving, acrobatic 19-yard reception by receiver Jeff Samardzija. 
Two Notre~ Dame penaltins spotted Pittsburgh 29 yards on their ensuing possession and set up Cummings' 23-yard finld goal to make thn seorn 2X-13. 
But Quinn hit four difTnn~nt players -Samardzija, Pownrs­Neal, MeKnight and Mauriee Stovall -on the next drivn to go 4-l"or-4 with 52 yards. Powers-Neal then scored his second touchdown of the night -darting up the middle untouched for a 9-yard score -to put the Irish up 35-13 and the game out of reach. 
Powers-Neal tallied his third touchdown of the game on Notre Dame's first possession of the third quarter. 
The score came at the end of what Weis called a "sloppy" 20-play, 80-yard drive marked by three Irish penalties, a fum­ble by tight end John Carlson recovered by Quinn and two time outs. 
Nevertheless, Powers-Neal was surprised and excited by his play. 
"I expected to win but I did­n't expect myself personally to have this much success," Powers-Neal said. ''I'm going to enjoy it tonight then get back to work tomorrow." 
Weis believed the game was a solid beginning to the season but there were problems. 
"We didn't play a full 60 min­utes," Weis said. "We had 10 penalties. You can't win close games with 10 penalties." 
Pittsburgh finished the scor­ing in the fourth quarter, using running baek Haymond Kirkley's 51-yard scamper to set up Palko's 4-yard touch­down run on fourth and goal. Panthers fullback Tim Murphy ran over left tackle to convert the two-point conversion. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Brady Quinn  275 to 103  Jeff Samardzija's touchdown catch  "It's been a long time since there were  
The third-year starter calmly and efficiently ran the Irish offense. His  Notre Dame's rushing total  Junior wide receiver fully  that many smiles in the locker room. "  
ability to spread the ball  compared to Pittsburgh's  extended to grab a I 9-yard  Charlie Wels  
around kept the Panthers defense on its heels.  rushing total.  second quarter touchdown to put the Irish ahead 28-10.  Irish coach  


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 5, 2005 
CLAIRE KELLEYffhe Observer Left tackle Ryan Harris (68), fullback Rashon Powers-Neal, center, and fullback Asaph Schwapp (44) cele­brate one of Power~-Neal's three rushing touchdowns in Notre Dame's 42-21 rout of Pittsburgh Saturday night at Heinz Field. Notre Dame's dominant victory has raised the level of expectations even higher. 
Big game worth waiting for 
report card 
A 
A­
8+ 


A 8+ A 
B 
B A 
3.59 
overall: Notre Dame got exactly what it was looking for from Weis' debut. Michigan will have its hands full next Saturday. 

adding up the numbers 
first-half points scored by Notre Dame. The last time the Irish scored 35 points in the 
35 
first half was Nov. 1996 against Rutgers. 
94 
yards in penalties by Notre Dame. The Irish committed 10 penalties in the con­
test, one of the only areas of concern. 
number of Notre Dame touchdowns in their 
6 
first seven drives. Only a Quinn interception stopped the Irish from scoring. 
14:55 time left in the fourth quarter when the Irish punted for the first time. 
number of sacks by Notre Dame linebacker Brandon 
2 
Hoyle. Hoyle also had 11 tackles in the game. 
227 
yards passing by Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn 
rushing touchdowns scored 'by running back 
3 
Rashon Powers-Neal, matching his career total 
12 
Tackles by cornerback Ambrose Wooden, the 
leading total on the Irish defense. 
quarterbacks: Quinn played a first half Weis described as near perfection. He completed 15 of his first 17 passes, including 10 in a row at a one point, en route to a 227 -yard, 2-TD effort. 
running backs: With more games like 
Saturday's, Walker may take home a 
Heisman. He racked up 152 total yards and a pair of touchdowns, and 
Powers-Neal rushed for three TO's. 
receivers: Seven different players caught passes, including three receivers and two tight ends. Samardzija's diving 19­yard, second quarter touchdown was a highlight of the game. 
offensive line: The offensive line punc­
tured holes early and often in an 
experienced Pittsburgh defensive 
line, paving the way for 275 total 
Irish rushing yards. 
defensive line: The line put frequent 
pressure on Palko, forcing him to 
scramble and make quick decisions. 
Frome and Abiamiri both recorded 
sacks in the contest. 
linebackers: The linebackers, save a 55­yard run by Panther Raymond Kirkley, limited to the Panther running backs and put numerous big hits on Palko. Hoyte had two sacks and Mays had one. 
defensive backs: The defensive backs were 
burned on Greg Lee's 39-yard first quar­
ter touchdown. They settled in after the 
breakdown and held Palko to 220 pass­
ing yards and one touchdown. 
special teams: Special teams played a solid game, including recovering a fumble. A couple of the kick-offs 
could have been better. 
coaching: The Irish started slow, but rebounded with a vengeance, scoring four touchdowns in the second quarter. The players all spoke of their confidence in Weis and his playcalling abilities. 
PITTSBURGH -Notre Dame fans, players and coaches had been wait­ing almost nine months for this game. 
It was worth the wait. 
In front of a standing-room­only crowd of 66,451 at Pittsburgh's Heinz Field, quarterback Brady Quinn and the Irish offense showed everyone exactly what Notre Dame had in mind when it inked offensive mastermind Charlie Weis to a six-year deal in December. 
For as high as preseason expecta­tions have skyrocketed in recent months -at least within the Notre Dame community-few expected the Irish to display such utter domi­nance right off the bat, no less against a ranked opponent, at night, celebrating a homecoming of its own in the return of alum head coach Dave Wannstedt. 
Methodical and precise, the Irish carved up a young Panther defense, racking up 35 first-half points-the most since the Irish hung the same first-half total on Rutgers in November 1996. Notre Dame found pay dirt on six of its first seven drives, only failing to reach the end zone on a Quinn interception during the team's second possession. 
By the time the Irish headed back to the locker room at the end of the first half, a game that most predicted to be a nail-bitter resembled more of 


Matt Puglisi 
Associate Sports Editor 

a lopsided high school game than an overtime-bound slugfest between two even squads. 
As impressive as the Irish looked in the 42-21 opening night romp, the contest had ominous beginnings. 
When Pittsburgh quarterback Tyler Palko found Biletnikoff Award candi­date Greg Lee on a 39-yard touch­down strike not five minutes after kickoff, ugly memories of last year's defensive struggles invariably came to mind -the Irish yielded 14 pass­ing touchdowns in the season's final three games, including a Notre Dame opponent record five to Palko at Notre Dame Stadium in November. 
Would the defense rebound 
or would Palko IfSaturday night was trying to tell them all be gunning for any indication, there along, that a lot of this six this time? game is confidence, 
will be plenty offun to
Despite its and if you don't have 
go around this fall. 
youth and inex­confidence that you're 
perience, the Irish defense shook off the first drive, and while the Notre Dame offense was busy moving the ball at will against the Pittsburgh defense, the co-captain linebacker Brandon Hoyte and the Irish defense were holding the Panthers to 153 yards and 13 first­half points. 
"That shows defensive backbone," Hoyte said. "We came together as a defensive unit, and the coaches did a great job to put us in position to make plays." 
The implications of Weis' show­stopping opening night performance are stunning. 
Mere hours after analysts debated possible 1-5 or 0-6 starts to the Notre Dame season, talk of Heisman Trophy candidates and BCS bowl games dominated student discussion 
• 
_, 
.·:A'~ 
:;; ·' 

.i··<:.·.··. 
' ...,; 

on the quad, in dorm rooms and in cars traveling back to South Bend. 
While rabid Notre Dame fans are known for their optimism, it might be easy to forget that the last time the Irish knocked off a defending ranked conference champion on the road wasn't too long ago-former head coach Tyrone Willingham accom­plished the feat in a 22-0 shutout of Maryland to kick off the 2002 season. 
Nevertheless, while Willingham's fate is well-documented, the 2005 Irish have reason to be optimistic. 
"I think by halftime, I think that our players were starting to realize that they're better than they thought they 
were," Weis said. 
"That's what I've been 

going to go out there and play well, then usually you won't." 
Faith in both Irish coaches and themselves coupled with results on the field should only produce a per­petual cycle of success. 
"We just wanted to come out and have fun, that was the biggest thing -it wasn't about being nasty," free safety Tom Zbikowski said. "You're nasty when you're having fun because you're flying around. 
"Football is supposed to be fun." 
If Saturday night was any indica­tion, there will be plenty of fun to go around this fall. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd. edu 

Monday, September 5, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 


Irish flex offensive muscle at Pitt 
By MATT PUGLISI A~sociate Spons Editor 
PITTSBUHC;I I -An oO'ensive outburst that saw Notw Dame lind the end zone on six of its first seven drives en route to a 42-21 thumping of' Pittsburgh Saturday shocknd many pnople. 
Irish running back Darius Walker was­n't one of them. 
"I think we worknd towards that [per­l'orrnanenl." Walker said. "A lot of' the oflimsn is roturning. The chemistry is up, we gel, we know how each other plays, so moving the ball was something kind of' simple for us." 
Along with quarterback Brady Quinn, Walknr spearheaded an Irish attack that dissectnd the Panthers with surgical pre­cision. 
Punching holes in an inexperienced, injumd Panthers defensive line, the Irish took advantage of the gross mismatch, using a veteran offensive line to open gaping holes for Walker, Travis Thomas and Hash1m Powers-Neal. 
The Irish finished the contest with four rushing touchdowns. Walker found the end zone on a two-yard run around left end, ineluding a juke that nearly toppled cornerback Josh Lay, and Powers-Neal readwd paydirt on runs of' two, four and nine yards. 
CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Obse!Ver 

The three rushing scores matched 
Notre Dame running back Darius Walker shifts his footing as Pittsburgh defenders
Powers-Neal's earner total heading into 
Mike Phillips, left, Darrelle Revis, middle, and H.B. Blades try to wrap him up.
the contest. 
Mixing inside runs with screens and downl1nld passes, head coach Charlie first half came on a Quinn interception formance was nothing new. Weis' play calling and Quinn's efficient four plays into the second Irish drive. "Brady has been showing us a lot ever passing kept the Panthers otT-balance all "That [interception], he got caught in since this summer." Samardzija said. "We night. that gray area where he was reading that see it every day, it's just unfortunate that 
Weis' gnnius showed through on the corner, and that corner kind of middled everyone doesn't get to see that, obviously opening drive of the 2005 campaign when him, and he got caught in between on for different reasons, but Brady is a good he called for rarn back-to-back screens. whether he should throw the ball short football player. He's got a good arm, a 
Walker slipped through the offensive for the first down or deeper," Weis said. "I good head on his shoulders. The on·ense line, caught a quiek Quinn screen pass basically said, 'You know it's third-and­is just going to circle around him, and the and scamperod 51 yards down the right six, I mean let's be a smart football play­team whole team too, and if he goes out sideline to knot the game at 7-7. er. It's third-and-six, you had a guy stand­and plays the way he did [Saturday]. 
"With thn coverage that their team was ing at seven yards, why don't we throw it plenty of good things are going to hap­playing, as I told all along, I was going to to him'!"' pen." makn adjustmnnts based on who's Quinn refused to dwell on the intercep­Quinn found seven different receivers defense they were playing," Weis said. tion, bouncing back to lead the Irish on a on the night, hitting receivers Maurice "They were playing IPittsburgh coach I pair of back-to-hack nine-play, 65-yard Stovall, Rhema McKnight and Dave IWannstedt'sl defense, and lhisl touchdown drives, before hitting receiver Samardzija, two tight ends in Anthony deliuJsn is basically play four across. That Jell' Samardzija for the third of four sec­Fasano and John Carlson. and tailbacks scrmm was designed to go against a team ond-quarter Irish touchdowns. Walker and Powers-Neal. playing four across, and fortunately we Lining up with Powers-Neal and fresh­With weapons at every position and got a couple blocks and Darius made a man Asaph Schwapp in the backfield and Weis masterminding the attack, nicn run." Samardzija wide left, Quinn faked a Pittsburgh may have only scratched the 
In picking apart the Pittsburgh defense hand-off before finding a streaking surface of Notre Dame's offensive poten­-Quinn completed 15 of his first 17 Samardzija, who extended parallel to the tial. passes en route to 227 passing yards and ground to make the highlight film-caliber a pair of touchdown passes -the only 19-yard touchdown reception. Contact Matt Puglisi of'l'nnsive bump in the road during the For Samardzija, Quinn's dominant per-at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

Zbikowski glad for chance at returning 
"It feels good [to return a back to return a kick. + Jeff Samardzija made anBy MIKE GILLOON punt!. I tried to do the best I Harris and Hoskins incredible, full-extension 19­
Sports Editor 
could with it," Zbikowski said. returned kickoffs for 11 and yard touchdown catch in the "I think just having trust in 24 yards respectively. second quarter against the PJTTSBUHGII Tom the punt team, that they're Panthers. But even a stellar Zbikowski stood his ground, going to block for me, I've just Notes: play couldn't earn him a waiting for his chance. got to find a seam and hit it as + Charlie Weis is the first reprieve from a Charlie Weis lie received thn punt and hard as I can." Irish coach since Ara tongue-lashing. Weis scolded shot upfield, breaking several Zbikowski was not listed Parseghian to open his career the Irish receiver later in the Pittsburgh before the game anywhere on on the road. period when he forgot to line tack Ins the depth chart for punt Parseghian led Notre Dame up as the holder on the extra bnfore rnturner. to a 31-7 win point after Rashon Powers­being Freshman over Wisconsin Neal's touchdown to put Notre
'Tve just got to

brought David Grimes in 1964. Dame ahead 35-13. Weis was down at the held the title of find a seam and hit Parseghian went forced to call the second time­Irish 35 No. 1 punt on to lead the out of the half.
it as hard as I 

yard line. returner going Irish to national + Defensive end Ronald 
can.

Not since into the titles in 1966 Talley joined Samardzija in hn was a Pittsburgh game and 1973. Weis' doghouse late in the high school while Brandon Tom Zbikowski +Notre Dame third quarter. l-Ie drew a 15­standout in Harris and is now 2-2 in its yard personal foul after hit­
Irish safety 

Buf'f'alo Grove, Ill. had thn Justin Hoskins last four season ting Tyler Palko when the Irish sal'nty benn givnn the were the back-openers played Panthers quarterback was at opportunity to return a punt. ups. But Zbikowski was the at night -all coming on the least four yards out of 
But thn hard-nosnd running only Irish player to return a road. bounds. ABC TV cameras styln and quiek feet he dis­punt. Along with the win over focused on Weis as he yelled playnd Saturday showed why One noticeable special Pittsburgh, the Irish defeated at Talley for committing one spneial teams coach Bill teams player missing was Maryland 19-0 in the 2002 of 1 0 Irish penalties totaling Polian and thn rnst of the Irish Chase Anastasio. Kickoff Classic. The team 94 yards. stall' dnddnd to use Zbikowski Listed as the No. 1 kick dropped its opening game 27­in that capacity against returner along with Harris, 10 at Nebraska in 2001 and Contact Mike Gilloon at Pittsburgh. Anastasio never was sent last season at BYU 20-17. mgilloon@nd.edu 

•

scoring sun1mary 
1st 2nd :J rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame  1  28  1  0  42  
Pittsburgh  10  3  0  8  21  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 0, Pittsburgh 7 Greg Lee 39-yard reception from Tyler Palko with 10:58 remaining. (Josh Cummings kick) Drive: 8 plays, 73 yards, 4:02 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Pittsburgh 7 Darius Walker 51-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 8:19 remaining. 
(D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 6plays, 78 yards, 2:39 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Pittsburgh 10 Josh Cummings 49-yard field goal with 1:40 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 22 yards, 3:43 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 14, Pittsburgh 10 Walker 2-yard run with 13:07 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 9 plays, 65 yards, 3:33 elapsed Notre Dame 21, Pittsburgh 10 Rashon Powers-Neal 2-yard run with 6:59 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 9 plays, 65 yards, 4:20 elapsed Notre Dame 28, Pittsburgh 10 Samardzija 19-yard reception from Quinn with 
6:03 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 2 plays, 19 yards, 0:45 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Pittsburgh 13 Cummings 23-yard field goal with 4:20 remaining. Drive: 5plays, 55 yards, 1:43 elapsed 
Notre Dame 35, Pittsburgh 13 Powers-Neal 9-yard run with 1:39 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 8 plays, 70 yards, 2:41 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 42, Pittsburgh 13 Powers-Neal 4-yard run with 7:59 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 20 plays, 80 yards, 7:01 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 42, Pittsburgh 21 Tyler Palko 4-yard run with 12:55 remaining (Tim Murphy rush) Drive: 7plays, 72 yards, 1:49 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
IIIIIIIJ!tll323 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 


J;t ... 
50-275 rushes-yards 31-103 18-27-1 comp-att-int 20-35-1 3-137 punts-yards 4-195 1-0 fumbles-lost 2-1 10-94 penalties-yards 6-55 
33 20
first downs 
passing 

Quinn 18-27-1 Palko 20-35-1 
rushing 

Walker 20-100 Kirkley 5-67 Quinn 5-49 Jennings 12-31 Powers-Neat Ste~hens
8-41 12-15 
receiving 
4-42 4-63

Fasano Lee 
tackling 
12 13

Wooden Blades 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 5, 2005 

Darius Walker and Brady Quinn led the charge behind a seasoned Irish offensive line and disposed of Pittsburgh with relative ease Saturday night. Walker rushed for 100 yards and caught a 51-yard touchdown. The secondary, a question mark entering the season opener, held star 
Panther receiver Greg Lee to just four catches for 63 yards. Linebacker Brandon Hoyte continued his hard-hitting ways, sacking Pittsburgh -quarterback Tyler Palko twice and recording nine total tackles. 



Brady Quinn eludes the Panthers defense, top left. Dan Stevenson salutes Irish fans who made the trek to Pittsburgh after the game, top right. Jeff Samardzija stiff­arms Pittsburgh's Darrelle Revis, middle right. Brandon Hoyte harasses Tyler Palko, bottom right, and Charlie Weis enjoys himself on the sidelines, bottom left. 
------~--­
THE OBSERVER 
.~ 
'·' 





CENE
Monday, September 5, 2005 
page 11 
SNITE REVIEW 
Worth a thousand words 
Photo exhibit shows many sides of the third. World 
By KELLY CLANCY 
Sn·ne Writer 
Whil«' black and white photography may semn to lw a nwthod of the past, thn Sc~hastiiio Salgado photography PXhihit rurrPntly fpatured at the UnivPrsity ol' Notre Dame's Snite MusPum of Art proves tlw assumption wrong. 
Salgado's photographs-over 20 are fnaturnd in the O'Shaugnessy <;allorins through Nov. 20 -provido a social romnwntary on contemporary condi­tions in forPign locations. Tlw black and whitn charactPr of tlw artwork ovokes thP mnssagP that these conditions are n•minisn~nt of a world that is rarely undPrstood hy prnsPnt-day Americans. 
An award-winning, world-rnnowrwd donrmPntary photograplwr. Salgado t«'rHis to focus on undnnhweloped coun­triPs and third-world nations as subjects for his work. 
Born in I1J44 in Bmzil and mnploynd in Paris as a frnnlancn photographer in 197:~. Salgado found himself concentrat­ing his work on his homeland of Latin 
Anu~rka. 
llis most noted sPrins of photo­

Sabastiao Salgado's best known photographs are from the Sierra Pelado gold mine in the Brazilian rainforest. They reveal the site's horrible conditions. 
graphs was a result of the Serra Pelado  "We emerge from his exhibition  Fnrrnira Gould assigned her freshman literature seminar  
gold minP in the Brazilian rainfornst, discovernd in 1980. Salgado was ahln to  transformed, newly aware ofour co-responsibility  elass to write a response paper about the exhibit because she felt it was pertinent to Portuguese and Creole litera­ 
capture thn raw nature or thn gold mirw, which was an  with our fellow human beings. "  tures studied in the seminar. "Sebastiiio Salgado's photo­graphs bring other parts of our  
open  pit  and  world elose to us, making the  
involved  num carry­ Ferreira Gould  strange and the unseen familiar  
ing mwrrnous sacks or dirt and rocks up  professor  and visible: migrants, refugees, children of war, landless people,  
cliffs  in  hopes  of  peasants," Gould said. "There is  

finding a sirnpln speck or gold. an ethieal dimension to his work. We The importance of Salgado's work is emerge from his exhibition trans­r«~cognized not only by photographers formed, newly aware of our co-respon­
worldwide but also by those at Notre Dame. Assistant Professor of Portugnse and Brazilian Studies 

sibility with our fellow human beings." 
soda! messagn that tllP.re is a nned to bn aware of one's surroundings and not to fonts only that which only concc~rns orwself. Salgado's artwork was brought to tlw Snite Musnum cout·tnsy of Mr. Stcwe Moriarty, the Milly and Fritz Kansar Curator of Photography. Moriarty realized tho importance of thn works, which succeed in, "showing a world that we might not otlwrwisn know." 
''l'vn always liknd Salgado's work," Moriarity said. "Thn imagns arn lwauti­ful tnchnieally and aesthetically but thny dna! with important issues." 
Salgado's photographs had prnviously bnnn shown at thn museum as part of a smallnr exhibit put tognthnr thnw or four ynars ago for a sophomon• ron~ dass that is no longnr part of tlw Notrn Danw eurrieulum. llownvnr, Moriadty recnived such a positive rnsponsP from the small nxhibit. whnn giwn tlw oppor­tunity to host a largnr nxhibition. lw did not pass up thn oll'er. 
Thn Opnning Hnception for tlw Snitn Museum, on Sept. 11 from 2 to 4 p.m., will featurn not only Salgado's work but also thn work of two other llispanie artists as part of Septernbnr's focus as 
Drago Florez, a fresh­man, enjoyed the assign­ment. 
"I liked the picture 'Women Carrying Mud and Stones' because it has a crude beauty," Florez said. "To see that beauty you must look past the simple truth that they're living in poverty. The beauty is in the action." 
The subjects of Salgado's photography vary from painful events to celebrato­ry images. Salgado's works 
"To see that beauty you must look past the simple truth that they're living in poverty. The beauty is in the action." 
Drago Florez student 

National llispanie­Arnerican lleritagn Month. 
Featured along with Salgado's work will bn Zarco Guerrnro: Caras y Mascaras, an exhibit which displays numerous handmade clay masks along with shrinns to Cesar Chavez and Frida Khalo, and Vincent Valdez: Stations, a series of charcoal drawings cre­ated by the llispanic artist Valdez which represnnts the Stations of the Cross 
involve rough and raw conditions and though a boxing fight in a ring. 
evoke a sense of humility within oneself. 
The photography also highlights the Contact Kelly Clancy at kdancyI @od.edu 

The Snlte Museum of Art is currently displaying over 20 of Sabastiao Salgado's photographs and the works of two other Hispanic artists as part of National Hispanic-American Heritage Month. 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 5, 2005 
M LB -NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Marquis leads Cardinals over Astros with gem 
Giants beat D-backs; Soe and Mets easily roll past Marlins 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Jason Marquis went more than a month with­out winning a game for the St. Louis Cardinals. He didn't trust his pitches and found himself on the-mound waiting for the next bad thing to happen. 
The right-hander is feeling much better after consecutive complete-game victories. 
Marquis limited Houston to five hits in the Cardinals' 4-1 victory Sunday that kept the Astros from becoming the NL wild-card leader. He lost seven starts in a row before the two complete games. 
"I needed this more mentally than anything," Marquis said. "When you start struggling, you doubt yourself a little bit, and that's not a good thing.... To have these results in back-to­hack games, it is a confidence boost." 
Marquis (11-13) threw a two­hit shutout in his last appear­ance, Aug. 27 at Washington­his first win since beating the Astros on July 16. On Sunday, he struck out five and didn't allow any walks while throwing 71 of his 98 pitches for strikes in his third career complete game, all this season. 
"That's how he pitched early in the year. He just got in a funk," manager Tony La Russa said. "In the middle of that funk, he had a couple of games like this and we couldn't score for him.... This is what he's capable of doing." 
Marquis got hit on his left fin­gers swinging at a pitch in the seventh inning. He said it was only a bruise and that the wrap engulfing his entire hand was only a precaution. 

Giants 3, Diamondbacks 2 
With one major league start already on his resume, San Francisco Giants pitcher Matt Cain was able to relax -and win. 
Cain allowed three hits in seven innings in his second 


AP 

The Cardinals' Abraham Bunez leaps and throws out Raul Chavez of the Houston Astros during St. Louis' 4-2 win Sunday. 
start, Randy Winn scored twice and drove in a run, and the Giants beat the Arizona Diamondbacks Sunday for their fifth straight victory. 
The Giants won for the sev­enth time in eight games to move within 5 1/2 games of San Diego in the NL West. 
"It feels really good to be able to get that first one under the belt," said Cain, a 20-year-old right-hander who on Aug. 30 became the youngest player to make his major league debut for the Giants since Mark Grant in 1984. "I just was fired up too much for my first start. It was­n't my normal velocity." 
Cain's velocity remained high enough _ his fastball was clocked as high as 95 mph -to keep the Diamondbacks' hitters off balance for most of the game. 


Rockies 7, Dodgers 6 
Brad Hawpe set modest goals when he recently came off the disabled list. 
"I came back and wanted to make an impact, and help this team in the end of the year," said Hawpe, who was on the DL with a sprained left hamstring until Friday. 
Hawpe drove in the winning run with a single with one out in the 1Oth inning as the Colorado Rockies completed a three-game sweep of the Los Angeles Dodgers with a victory Sunday. 
Cory Sullivan had four hits, including a leadoff double in the 10th. Matt Holliday drove in two runs with his 15th home run, and Omar Quintanilla doubled and had two RBis. 
Scott Dohman (2-1) worked a scoreless 10th inning for the win. 
Sullivan led off the 10th with a double into the right-field cor­ner off Duaner Sanchez (4-5). Todd Helton was intentionally walked and Sanchez struck out Holliday before Hawpe drove a 3-2 pitch to the wall in center to score Sullivan. 
"On the last at-bat, he threw quite a bit of changeups and a good slider that fell off," Hawpe said. "On the 3-2 count it was a fastball that got up, and I tried to put the barrel on it and not do too much, and it worked out." 
Sanchez saw it a different way. 
"I tried to get him out with a high fastball," Sanchez said. "It didn't work." 
Jeff Kent became the all-time leader for second basemen with his 13th career grand slam. His 85 RBis as a second baseman is a new Dodgers record for that position, passing the mark of 83 set in 1959 by Charlie Neal. 



Mets 7, Marlins 1 
Jae Seo revived the New York Mets' playoff prospects -for one more series, at least. 
The right-hander allowed one run in seven innings Sunday, helping the Mets salvage the finale of their three-game series against the Florida Marlins with a victory. 
Despite winning just twice in their past eight games, the Mets are only 2 1/2 games behind NL wild-card leader Philadelphia, which lost to Washington. 
"This game was very impor­tant to my team," Seo said through a translator, "because this was a game that could start us off to the playoffs." 
The Mets improved to 1-2 on a 10-game trip. 
"That's why you don't panic. That's why you don't overre­act," manager Willie Randolph said. "We know very well that things can change at the drop of a dime, so we'll just keep play­ing." 
New York begins a three­game series Monday against NL East leader Atlanta. 
Florida missed a chance to overtake the Phillies and 
remained a half-game back. The Marlins play their next 11 games on the road against fel­low wild-card contenders, start­ing Monday at Washington. 
Nationals 6, Phillies 1 
Esteban Loaiza threw a 92 mph fastball past Pat Burrell on his 128th and final pitch Sunday, then crouched and pumped his right fist twice. 
An inning later, a white towel draped over his shoul­ders, Loaiza led his Washington Nationals team­mates out of the dugout for high-fives and back slaps to celebrate a 6-1 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies. 
When the Nationals filed into their clubhouse, this was writ­ten in capital letters on the message board near the door­way: "The fun has begun!" 
Yes, somehow, some way, those ex-Expos are still playing -and winning -meaningful games as the calendar turns to Labor Day. 
Loaiza struck out 11 and took a shutout into the eighth on short rest, and Preston Wilson and Brian Schneider each hit a three-run homer as Washington gained a game on all three teams it trails in the NL wild-card standings. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES needed for south side elementary school local­ed near Erskine Golf Course on Miami St.$35 per soccer game. Call 574-291-4200. 
Local family looking for part-time babysitter for 2 toddlers. Must love children! References required. Experience a must. Transportation necessary. Call 574-247-9213. 
2 season tix & parking pass or 2 for any home game. 574-276-8507. 
FOR SALE 
Brand new full mattress & box. Still in plastic. $120. Can deliver. 574­876-4474. 
Queen pillow1op mattress set. New with warranty. $155. Can deliver. 574-231-4522. 
FoR RENT 
Two 2-bdrm condos: 18041-B Bulla Rd. & 18027-A Bulla Rd. $975/mo. Property Management Svcs 233· 4590. 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcoun­trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non­smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
Blue & Gold Homes. 2-8 bedroom, weekend rentals, furnished, alumni owned. You design lease. Call 250· 7653. 
2 bedroom home within 1.5 miles of campus. Partially furnished with extra room, washer/dryer, and kitchen appliances. $750/month. Call574-250-8552. 

GOOD HOUSES IN GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS: andersonNDrentals.com or (574)233-9947. 
TICKETS 

WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251·1570. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR$$: www.victorytickets.com 
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT· BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 
WANTED: 4-6 MSU GAs together, Dave 248-760-1767 
NEED 2 tickets for the 9/17 ND foot­ball game for my nephews who have never been to campus. Please help! dreaminbig04@yahoo.com 
I would like to purchase your Notre Dame football tickets. 574-289· 8048. 
BUY SELL OR TRADE ND FOOT­BALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID. A.M. · 232-2378 P.M.· 288-2726 
PLEASE HELP!!! Buying season tix GAs only or any game GAs. Call Mark 277-1659. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OE!SERVER. 
A haiku for James Dechant: Soft and gentle Weis Chewed out Ronald Talley Late hits are not good 

r---------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 5, 2005 page 13
The Observer + SPORTS 


Castl\?~oiot 
APARTMENTS l 80 I l Cleveland Road • South Bend, lndiana 46637 
Corner Qr Cleveland and Ironwood Road 
Phone (574) 272-8110 • Toll Free (888) 642--6110. www.cppj.com 

• llusiness Center 
• r...ree Tanning Be!f 
• 
Racquet Ball 

• 
llldoor/Outdoor Tennis & Basketball 


• Stvimmin.g 
• Exercise Room 
• JVhir/pool & Sauna ·· 
• Short-Term Leasing Options 
-•• :-.-.-~ • . w--y 
• : .:··,.·~~ ..-::{;;.:.~:-:;"' •<,"~ "~ ' vcA·,·~.-:<7¥~~· ... :7::A• ··: ,/ .. ff"•:, ··~" ~", .. ~ ;;:.,., 
·..:~~.weteome·..To-v.O:ur· castle••; *.: _/i~~;;·. ;."\~·~~e: ~~·,:£~-e;~. . Ins:· . ~·::.::'.?~;~ 
··:;..~··<··~ ·,·Far Frona Ordinary . :.~. ~ ·~:·'<:~~·-:.' y,-,M~~-~-.---·.-,·~-~::..:·: "--~~:~~-'-~~ :·~~' 'v·; ·,:~, J ~,­
~· 



COLLEGE fOOTBALL 


Wolverines roll by Northern Illinois 
teams ahead, and orw of them is
Michigan opens its 
coming next wenk," Carr said. 
season with strong The lluskies ran for 211 yards and thrnw for 200, but they wereoffense and solid win doomed by the turnovers and a 
bloeknd field goal. 
"I honestly thought we had a

Associated Press shot if we didn't turn it over," ANN AHBOH, Mich. -said coach .Joe Novak, who has Michigan made Northern Illinois built Northern Illinois into a mid­pay for its mistakes, using major power after it lost 23 turnovers to turn a competitive straight from 1996-<JS. game into a lopsided win. Michigan's Chad llenne was Mike Hart ran for 117 yards 20-of-31 for 227 yards and two and a scored two touchdowns, TD passns . .Jason Avant had nine and the fourth-ranked receptions for 127 yards and a Wolverines took score. llart had 27 advantage of five "We know there earrins and ran for Northem Illinois more than 100
are better teams 
giveaways to beat yards for thn sixth
ahead, "and one of
the Huskies 33-17 time in his last night on Saturday. them is coming games. lie also A season after caught four passes
next week." 
leading the nation by for 49 yards. losing 9nly one fum­The Wolverines ble, the Huskies lost Lloyd Carr seornd TDs on their four fumbles and Michigan coach first three drives, threw an intercep­rnissnd a field goal tion while the Wolverines turned on their fourth and led 27-1 0 al it over only once. halftime al'tnr converting night ol' 
"If you win the turnover battle, 10 third downs. statistics say you win 79 percent "Ofl'ensively, wn played as well of the time," Michigan coach in tim first half as any learn sinee Lloyd Carr said. "If the turnovers I've been at Miehigan," said Carr, were 1-l, the score would've in his 11th year as head eoaeh. been much dill'erent." Adrian Arrington, Michigan's 
The Wolverines led just 14-10 promising No. 3 mceiver, was early in the second quarter carted orr the field with ien before scoring 19 straight points . packed on his ,right ankle aftnr in the opener for both schools. hn returnnd a kiekolT early in 
Michigan hosts Notre Dame the second q·uarter. Carr said next. Arrington is going to miss some "We know there are better time, but didn't elaborate. 
Help the victims of Hurricane Katrina! 
Adore Ministries, in Houma, Louisiana, a Catholic Charity Organization, is helping with the relief effort. Please consider donating to their cause, and join them in prayer for the victims of this tragedy. 
Send donations to: 
Adore Ministries 

1023 West Tunnel 
Houma, LA 70360 
For more information contact: Adam Meyer at adam@ adore­worship.com or Lisa Fiamingo at lisaf@bellsouth.net 
--~--------~~------·~--------------~~-­
Monday, September 5, 2005
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Angels and Red Sox win with solid pitching 
Garland and Chicago blank Detroit; Stewart and Twins beat Indians 
cials in New York. Afterward here and cry about it."

Associated Press he apologized for saying com­Konerko's 33rd homer gave ANAHEIM, Calif. -Bartolo missioner Bud Selig dragged the White Sox a 2-0 lead in the Colon knew he couldn't last his feet on the steroid issue. fourth, right after two key long against the Seattle "I found out I was wrong," defensive plays turned the Mariners, so he made the most Wells said Sunday, but declined Tigers away. of his injury-shortened outing. to comment on Selig. After center fielder Aaron Colon earned his AL-leading Wells had one other complete Rowand made a nice, running 18th win despite leaving with a game this season, a 3-1 loss at catch of Shelton's long drive, sore back in the sixth inning, Baltimore that was shortened Magglio Ordonez and Carlos and Vladimir Guerrero hit a to six innings by rain. Pena hit two-out singles in the two-run homer in the Los · "Regardless of how much fourth. But with runners at Angeles Angels' 5-3 victory [the suspension] bothered him first and third, third baseman Sunday. or how he felt about things, he Pablo Ozuna made a diving "It's been four days of pain," really did a good job to get stop of Craig Monroe's hard Colon said through a transla­ready for his start," Red Sox shot down the line before get­tor. "I knew I could pitch and manager Terry Francona said. ting to his feet and throwing get the team through five Rodrigo Lopez (13-9) pitched him out. innings. I feel like I had good better than Wells in the first "I probably wouldn't have stuff. I was staying on top of four innings, retiring his first been out there in the ninth if it the pitche~ because I couldn't 11 batters after he set down wasn't for Pablo in that fourth bend over." the last 14 batters in his previ­inning. If he doesn't make that Casey Kotchman hit a three­ous start against Boston. He play, I probably wouldn't have run homer. a double and a sin­allowed one hit through four, been in the game," Garland gle for the Angels, who began while Wells gave up five hits said. the day tied with Oakland atop and put runners on base in the AL West. each inning. Twins7, Indians 5 "Casey gave us a big lift," Lopez lost his touch quickly In a game they needed to manager Mike Scioscia said. in the fifth when the first six win, the Minnesota Twins Colon (18-6) allowed two batters reached safely, leading delivered an offensive perform­runs and five hits in five-plus to five runs -three on John ance their pitchers wish they innings, struck out five and Olerud's sixth homer. AL East­saw more of. walked none. lie came out leading Boston went on to its Shannon Stewart drove in the because of tightness in his seventh win in eight games. go-ahead run with a sixth­lower back, but the right-han­inning single and Mike der still won his career-best White Sox 2, Tigers 0 Redmond delivered a three-run seventh consecutive decision. Jon Garland finally earned double in the seventh, leading "It feels very tight," said his elusive 17th victory. Now he the Twins to a victory over the Colon, who received electrical says his next goal isn't reach­Cleveland Indians on Sunday. stimulation before the game. ing 20 wins, it's helping the The Twins won the final two Gardenhire said. "Our fans saw center scored two runs and put "The last four clays it's been Chicago White Sox make a tina! games of the three-game series a pretty fired-up bunch of guys Minnesota ahead 4-3. getting real tight on me. push to the playoffs. between AL Central rivals. out there today." Jesse Crain (10-4) pitched 1 Massage should take care of "It's still a grind," Garland Cleveland began the day one Redmond's hit off the glove of 2-3 innings for the win, taking it." said Sunday after getting win game behind the wild-card right fielder Casey Blake broke over l'or rookie Scott Baker in Esteban Yan, Brendan No. 17 on his fifth try. "We still leaders, while Minnesota was open a game that included four the sixth inning. Joe Nathan Donnelly and Scot Shields com­have to play GJeveland a few five back. lead changes through the first pitched the ninth, allowing Ben bined to work three innings more times. As long as we con­"We're battling, and we got six innings, the last coming Broussard's homer, for his 35th before Francisco Rodriguez fin-tinue to play the way we've some big hits," manager Ron when Stewart's single to right-save. .ished for his 34th save in 39 played the last few days, every­

chances. 
Los Angeles staked Colon to a 5-0 lead, and he responded by retiring 12 of his first 13 bat­ters to help the Angels take two of three in the series. 
"They got me five runs and that was enough," Colon said. 
He gave up three straight sin­gles to open the fifth before retiring the next three batters. The Mariners scored once in the inning on an RBI single by Jose Lopez to cut it to 5-1. 
Sciascia wanted Colon to quit after the fifth, but the pitcher declined. He gave up a triple to Jeremy Reed to start the sixth before bowing out. Reed scored on a groundout by Richie Sexson to make it 5-2. 
Red Sox 5, Orioles 1 
David Wells had no trouble with the Baltimore Orioles or the umpires. 
In his first start since serving a six-game suspension, the excitable Wells was solid and steady for the Red Sox, pitch­ing his first nine-inning com­plete game of the season in Boston's win Sunday. 
"Right now, every win is clutch for us," Wells said. "I felt good. My body felt good. Warming up was pretty good. I didn't feel rusty at all." 
Wells {12-6) was· suspended for arguing with umpires on July 2, but came back strong. He allowed seven hits, struck out four and retired his last 12 batters. It was the seventh time in eight games that he did not issue a walk. 
During the suspension, Wells worked out at Fenway Park. He also was called to a meeting Wednesday with baseball offi­thing will be fine." 
Garland threw a four-hitter and Paul Konerko homered, sending Chicago to a victory over the Detroit Tigers and a sweep of their four-game series. 
After going 12-1.6 in August, the White Sox are 4-0 in September. 
"When one person starts it off, it all seems to roll from there," Garland said after Chicago outscored Detroit 29-6 in the series. 
After losing three straight decisions, Garland (17 -8) pitched his third complete game of the season -all shutouts. Winning for the first time since Aug. 7, he got two stellar defensive plays to keep the Tigers from scoring. 
Garland, who started the sea­son 8-0, walked one and struck out seven, including Chris Shelton with a runner at third to end the eighth right after manager Ozzie Guillen came to the mound and asked if he was OK. 
"I was kind of worried about him leaving the ball around the plate and giving up a home run, and all of a sudden he'd lose everything he built for the whole game. He said he was fine and I believe my pitchers," Guillen said 
Garland outpitched Jeremy Sonderman {14-12), who lost his third consecutive start despite allowing five hits in his fourth complete game this sea­son and the sixth of his career. He struck out six and walked one. 
"That's the way it goes, man," Sonderman said. "What are you going to do? Can't sit 

STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training sessions in September. 
If yo~ have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 11th, at 7:00pm and at 8:00pm in Room 102 of DeBartolo Hall. 
The sessions will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license an'! a pen. 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
AROUND THE NATION 
Monday, September, 5, 2005 CoMPILED FROM T11E OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Page 15 
Major League Baseball 
American league East 

team  record  perc.  last 10  
Boston  80·55  .593  8·2  
New York  76·59  .563  7·3  
Toronto  67-69  .493  3·7  
Baltimore  64-72  .471  3·7  
Tampa Bay  57·81  .413  5·5  

American league Central 
team record perc. last 10 Chicago 84-51 .622 6·4 Cleveland 75·61 .551 5·5 Minnesota 72·64 .529 5·5 Detroit 63·71 .470 2·8 Kansas City 44-91 .326 2·8 
American league West 
team record perc. last 10 

Los Angeles 77·59 .566 4·6 Oakland 76·59 .563 7-3 Texas 67·70 .489 7-3 Seattle 58·78 .426 4-6 
National league East 

team record perc. last 10 Atlanta 78-59 .569 6-4 Philadelphia 73-64 .533 5·5 Florida 72-64 .529 6·4 Washington 71-66 .518 5-5 New York 70-66 .515 4-6 
National League Central 

team record perc. last 10 St. Louis 87-50 .635 7-3 Houston 72-64 .529 5·5 Milwaukee 67·70 .489 4·6 Chicago 66·70 .485 5·5 Cincinnati 63-73 .463 5·5 Pittsburgh 55·81 .404 1·9 
National league West 
team record perc. last 10 

San Diego 68-68 .500 5-5 SanFranciso 62-73 .459 7-3 los Angeles 61-75 .449 4·6 Arizona 61-77 .442 3-7 Colorado 55-81 .404 7·3 
Big East Volleyball 
GB 
4 13.5 16.5 24.5 
GB 
9.5 12.5 20.5 40 
GB 
.5 10.5 19 
GB 
5 5.5 7 7.5 
GB 
14.5 20 20.5· 23.5 31.5 
GB 
5.5 7 8 13 
Big East  
team  record  record  
1  Georgetown  2·0  0·0  
2  St. John's  2·0  0·0  
3  ·Villanova  2-D  0·0  
4  Cincinnati  1·0  0·0  
5  NOTRE DAME  1·0  0·0  
6  Syracuse  1·0  0-0  
7  Marquette  2·1  0·0  
8  Solon Hall  2·1  0-0  
9  Pittsburgh  2·2  0-0  
10  Rutgers  1·2  0·0  
11  West VIrginia  1·2  0·0  
12  Connecticut  0·0  0·0  
13  DePaul  0·1  0·0  
14  Louisville  0·0  0·0  
15  USF  0·1  0-0  


around the dial 
MLB Texas at Minnesota 1:10 p.m., ESPN 2 Seattle at Oakland 3:05p.m., ESPN 

NCAA FOOTBALL UNLV at New Mexico 12 p.m., ESPN 2 Mississippi at Memphis 3:30 p.m., ESPN Miami at Florida State 7 p.m., ABC 
TENNIS 

U.S. Open Day 8 Coverage 10 a.m., 6 p.m. USA Network 
u.s. OPEN 


Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Far from a family feud, matches between Venus and Serena Williams create a family crisis. 
This time neither of their parents could watch. 
Artistry gave way to sheer slugging again in Sister Act XIV. the ongoing saga of siblings who hate to play each other -espe­cially if it's not for a Grand Slam title. 
Venus' 7-6 (5), 6-2 victo­ry Sunday to reach the quarterfinals at the U.S. Open evened their head­to-head matches at 7-7 and gave the elder sister her second win this year after losing six straight to Serena. 
Venus bottled up her 

emotions. not her power, and could hardly manage a smlie when it was over. Serena Williams shrieked and bounced her racket before limping off, angry at herself and achy. 
It was the ninth time they met in a Grand Slam match, and the earliest since Venus won the first clash in the second round of the 1998 Australian Open. Serena had won their last five matches in majors -all in finals. 
"Serena is the baby so she's going to do her little tantrum," said older sister Lyndrea, the only immedi­ate family member watch­ing at courtside. "You kind of want to pull for her because she is the baby. It's hard but I had to be there for them." 
IN BRIEF 
Woods gives UP. Deutsche 
Bank Championship 
NORTON, Mass. -The Deutsche Bank Championship appeared to belong to Tiger Woods at the start of the week. Now it's up for grabs for just about everyone except golf's No. 1 player. 
John Rollins set a course record with a 28 on the back nine Sunday, holing out a bunker shot on the 18th hole for an 8-under 63 as the leaders were still warming up on the range. Jason Bohn birdied his last four holes for a 67. Carl Petterson scrambled to a 68. Billy Andrade started and finished with birdies and made 16 pars in between. 
And when Olin Browne recovered from an awkward spot in the fair­way to save par on the 18th for a 70, he joined the five-way tic atop the leaderboard, the largest logjam 
The 25-year-old Venus, who won her third Wimbledon two months ago and is going for her third U.S. Open title, could see that Serena, three weeks shy of 24, was struggling to control her shots and temper. 
"When she doesn't play her best is the best time to get a win against her," said Venus, who next plays No. 4 Kim Clijsters, a 6-1, 6-0 winner against Venezuela's Maria Vento­Kabchi. 
Women's top seed Maria Sharapova had no trouble dismissing India's rising star, Sania Mirza, 6-2, 6-1, and next plays fellow Russian and No. 9 Nadia Petrova, a 7-6 (4), 7-5 vic­tor over Nicole Vaidisova of the Czech Republic. 
Serena was in trouble from the start. losing the first three points on her serve in the opening game, but kept scrambling back --often with the help of Venus' errors. Venus broke her for a 4-3 lead in the first set and served for the set at 5-4 when she suddenly tight­ened. After winning 11 straight points on serve in previous games, she hit two double-faults and made two errors to even the set. 
The tiebreaker was a messy affair filled with minibreaks before Venus won it when Serena dumped a backhand into the net. Serena bounced her racket onto the court and stalked angrily to the chair. 

going into the final round in 22 years on the PGA Tour. 
Hurst rebounds to take 
State Farm Classic 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -Pat llurst put a final-hole collapse behind her in a hurry -and put herself in a perfect frame of mind for the Solheim Cup. 
A week after making a double bogey on the linal hole to linish two strokes behind Cristic Kerr in the Wendy's Championship for Children, Hurst closed with a rou­tine par Sunday to beat Kerr by three strokes in the LPGA State Farm Classic. 
"You try to look at the present not the past." Hurst said. "I think last week was just a stepping stone and I think it help~~d a little bit." 
Rice's NFL career may 
come to a close 
Jerry Rice could have played his last down in the NFL. 
The NFL's all-time leading receiv­er was mulling retirenwnt Sunday. after Broncos coach Mike Shanahan told him that he would not be the ·' team's No.3 wideout. 
llis agent. Jim Steiner. said Hicc wanted to close out his career no _ lower than a third receiver. 
"That's what his goal was," Steiner said. "That's what he want-ed. " 
Hice was checked out of his hotPI in Denver. Steiner said Hice was in San Francisco. and a deeision on the future most likely would comP Monday. 
The 42-year-old Hice sigrwd with the Broncos this summer in hopPs of playing a 21st season with a win­ner. llampen~d by a nagging foot injury, Hicc caught only four passes for 24 yards in the preseason and had trouble getting open. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 5, 2005 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Sooners frogged; Tigers get stung 
Two top-tier teams take tumbles on first weekend of season 
Associated Press 
AUBURN, Ala. -Bob Stoops found much to dislike in Oklahoma's season-opening per­formance. No consistent running game. Poor pass protection. Errant throws. 
And in the interest of fairness, he said the coaching also left something to be desired in a 17­10 loss to TCU on Saturday. 
"They outplayed us and out­coached us as a whole," the Sooners coach said Sunday. 
No team understands his pain better than Auburn. The 16th­ranked Tigers also stumbled out of the gates with a 23-14 loss to Georgia Tech. 
The two teams who spent the end of last season jockeying for the right to play Southern California for the national title likely want no part of the top­ranked Trojans at the moment. 
For Auburn, it was a turnover­and mistake-filled end to a 15­game winning streak that trailed only USC and Utah among active streaks. Keeping the season from going downhill was more on the team's mind in the locker room than the streak. 
"The winning streak. that was something we obviously all looked at," coach Tommy Tuberville said. "It's something we didn't harp on. It's been awhile since we lost a game, and it was good to see the seniors stand up and say a few words after the game (instead of) hav­ing their heads down." 
It's no real surprise that the oiTenses at both Oklahoma and Auburn sputtered against decent 
• 
Light-Weight! 

• 
Functionall 



'·· 

Running to thci>II'l u~• wool your lD nnd n few budt8'l lit•" i. :tllll l'llrM' In Y~>Hr pnda•L. 

Only a S miDute drive! Uow to gcl there ••• From D6 or "'fbe Avenue'', Go south on 31. Turn left onto Colfax. Turn Right onto Niltm. 
-though unranked -opening competition. Both were replacing terrific and seasoned quarter­backs in the Sooners' Jason White and the Tigers' Jason Campbell, White a Heisman Trophy winner and Campbell a first-round NFL draft pick. 
With the defenses gearing up to force Auburn's Brandon Cox and Oklahoma's Paul Thompson and Rhett Bomar to beat them through the air, neither team mustered much of a running game. Something that was sel­dom a problem for either offense last season. 
The result: Cox turned it over on the Tigers' final five drives, with four interceptions and a fumble. 
Thompson completed 11 of 26 passes for 109 yards with an interception for Oklahoma. Bomar was 2-for-5 for 19 yards. 
Not even the Sooners' super sophomore Adrian Peterson could produce anything on the ground. The Heisman runner-up ran for only 63 yards after set­ting an NCAA freshman record with 1,925 rushing yards. 
What went wrong? Good ques­tion, Stoops said. 
"It might be the attitude and discipline we came out and played with," he said. "Or it could be the play-calling. It real­ly is hard to put your finger on it." 
Defensive tackle Dusty Dvoracek offered a blunt assess­ment. 
"We never got tough, and we never had the attitude we need­ed to win," said Dvoracek, one of the team's four captains. 
Auburn was spoiled last sea­son with tailbacks Ronnie Brown and Carnell Williams, but aban­doned the run with an early deficit and Georgia Tech stacking the line of scrimmage. 
~era on CampUs/ 
Receive 20% offALL Vera Bradley Purchases 
September 8tb 
6:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. @ The Mole Hole Gift Sbop . 
" Washable! Thi~ J)uffle Rag will Cm'ry ALL your luumiry ... 

Tired ofthe same uld huekpack? Wmna new stylish way to carry your books? 
\'<Uf fHltld ll Tr.l~l 

Clp~h~h 
East Bank Emporium Restaurant Building 121 S. Niles@ Jefferson downtown South Bend (574) 232-8488 
" 
Contact Lisa Goepfrich at 243 Lyons Hall or 532-8671 with questions ... 

Louisville survives Wildcat scare 
Cardinals' rushing game prevents upset ofNo. 12 team in country 
Associated Press 

LEXINGTON, Ky. -For all the preseason talk about Louisville's high-powered pass­ing game, it was a running back and a defensive end that led the Cardinals to victory in their opener. 
Michael Bush rushed for 128 yards and two touchdowns and Elvis Dumervil added a school­record six sacks as No. 12 Louisville held off Kentucky 31­24 on Sunday. 
The 6-foot-2, 250-pound Bush carried 27 times and scored on runs of 11 and 1 yards. He helped the Cardinals grind out the clock after Kentucky (0-1) rallied within a touchdown in the fourth quarter. It was Bush's fourth career 100-yard rushing effort, and the Cardinals' sixth win in seven years against their in-state rivaL 
''I'm just real sore," Bush said. "I wasn't paying attention to how many carries I have. I'm glad they put it on my shoulders to do what I did." 
Louisville's heralded sopho­more quarterback, Brian Brohm, went 19-of-27 for 179 yards and rushed for two touch­downs in his first collegiate start. He had just one incomple­tion in the first half as the Cardinals jumped to a 28-7 lead. 
But the Cardinals managed only a 19-yard. field goal by Art Carmody in the second half, opening the door for a Kentucky rally. The Wildcats pulled with­in 31-24 with 11:52 left on a "I was really happy with the 15-yard touchdown pass from way Michael ran at the end of quarterback Andre Woodson to the game because that is some­tight end Jacob Tamme. thing we've been working hard 
Tamme then partially blocked on, getting the tough yards and a Louisville punt, giving the physical yards," Petrino Kentucky possession at the said. Louisville 33 with 7:21 left, and "That's how rivalry games are the Wildcats quickly reached supposed to be and we felt like, the 7 -yard line. coming in here, it was going to 
On the next play, Woodson be a great battle. So, we're cer­carried, switched the football tainly glad to get out of here from one hand to another and with a 'W"' fumbled at the 2. Louisville line­Woodson, a sophomore mak­
backer Brandon  ing his second  
Johnson, whose knee hit the ball  "! don't understand  career start, went 17-of-27  
while Woodson  why we have instant  for  278 yards  
was going down,  replay ifwe don't look  and two touch­ 
recovered with 6:21 left.  at a pivotal play in the ,  downs but lost three fumbles.  
The  South­ game.  "It just makes  
eastern  me  sick  to  my  
Conference is using instant  Rich Brooks Kentucky coach  stomach that we were close to  

replay this sea­son, but game officials chose not to stop the game to review if Woodson was down when he fumbled. Kentucky coach Rich Brooks said he thought Woodson was down and wanted officials to review the play. 
"I don't understand why we have instant replay if we don't look at a pivotal play in the game like that," Brooks said. "All we have to do is look at it." 
Louisville coach Bobby Petrino said he didn't have a view of the play. 
The Wildcats never got the ball back, as the Cardinals con­verted three times on third down on their ensuing drive. 
Do You Have a Parent With an Alcohol Problem? 

1 in 5 people grew up in a home with an alcoholic 
parent. 

YOU ARE NOT ALONE! Help and Support Is Available 
Asupport group for students who are struggling with this issue is now available. 
Contact Gina Firth, LMHC, NCC Firth.3@nd.edu Or stop by 311 LaFortune 
doing something 
that would have been very significant and again, we come up just short on it," Brooks said. "We had our ehances." 
Louisville opened with a 13­play, 76-yard touchdown drive, capped by Brohm's 1-yard run, but Kentucky answered by cov­ering 80 yards in 10 plays, with Arliss Beach scoring on a 6­yard run to tie the game. 
Louisville's offense kept rolling, while Kentucky man­aged only two first downs the rest of the half. The Cardinals went ahead 14-7, ending a 77­yard drive with a 1-yard touch­down run by Brohm on the first play of the second quarter. 


Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 311 LaFortune 631-7970 www.nd.edu/-aldrug 
Monday, September 5, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC GOLF 
Belles tee off season, finish 11th in tourney 
Individual scores highlight Saint Mary's debut 
By JORDAN BELTZ Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's golf team got its season ofT on the right foot with an impressive 11th placn finish at the Ferris State Fall Invitational this weekend. 
Thn Belles firnd a 344-340­61{4, finishing 69 strokes behind the tournament cham­pions, the host Ferris State Lady Bulldogs. While the fin­ish was maybe not as high as some fans may have expected, it was a solid showing to get the season ofT to a good start. 
"As a team we played well considering it was our first tournament, but we could have done better," said golfer Alex Sci. 
llnading up the leader board for the Belles was senior Mngan Mattie, who fired an 81 in the second round -good enough for a 25th overall fin­ish. Senior co-captain Nicole Bnllino shot a final round 84, which gave her a 48th place finish. Katie O'Brien shot a final round 86, good for a 51st place finish, while the other Belles co-captain, Kristen Fantom, fired an 89 to tie for 61stplaee. 
The Belles knew going into the weekend that the most important thing to come out of the invitational was not going to be the team's overall finish,_ but rather the development of thn frnshmen. 
Sni, a freshman, was insert­ed into the lineup and shot a final round 92, finishing at the 85th position. 
"I was under a lot of pres­sure," Sei said. "It was very nerve wracking. All that I wanted to do was play well for the team." 
The Belles are focusing much more as playing togeth­er as a cohesive unit, as the team-oriented practices that they have been holding indi­cate. Having a freshmen con­tributor in the season opening match can only add to the team's chemistry. 
The Belles finished up the weekend strongly when com­paring their results to those of other similarly sized schools in the region. They defeated rival St. Joseph's (Ind.) by 18 shots, and only trailed bitter in-state rival DePauw by 44 strokes. 
Looking ahead, while these early tournaments are indeed important, the ultimate goal for the team is to build up enough confidence to perform well at the MIAA Championships, which are to be held the weekend of Oct. 7 and 8. 
In the meantime, the Belles will hope to carry the momen­tum from their solid finish this weekend to next weekend, as they take part in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
"Next week we are going to go out and try our best, and hopefully perform a little bet­ter," Sei said. 
The Invitational will be held next Friday and Saturday at the Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu 
THEN JOIN 1)S!! 
Cha01ps 
continued from page 20 
the Irish know they can play under pressure. 
Texas came back from a 2-0 deficit to force a fifth game Saturday evening, and Arizona State hung around for a fifth game Sunday afternoon. 
Serenaded by chants of "Let's Go Irish" and "We are ND" from a small but boisterous crowd, the Longhorns looked flustered throughout the opening two games against the Irish. 
The Irish looked unstoppable. 
Notre Dame took the first two games 30-21, 31-29, with a syn­chronized offensive attack, led by sophomore setter Ashley Tarutis' accurate setting and 51 set assists. 
"I feel really good about the energy we had and the way we executed," Tarutis said. I could­n't be happier with the way we started." 
With seniors Meg Henican, Brewster, Lauren Kelbley and Carolyn Cooper and freshman Mallorie Croal rotating on the front line, the Irish set up their seemingly unbreakable defense. The front line's blocks helped junior libero Danielle Herndon have a career night. 
"The block was set up really nice," she said. "And I think that's a huge part in being able to dig." 
Herndon -at times putting 
Split 
continued from page 20 
goal from 40 yards out. 
Fellow midfielder Nate Norman added to the Irish lead at 14:59, blasting a shot from just outside the box. 
"Obviously you're looking to see your forwards get in with goals, but it's also great when the midfielders [do]," Clark said. 


OUR FIRST MEETING IS TODAY! 
WHEN? SEPTEMBER 5TH, FROM 7:00·8:00PM WHERE? MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS, GIOVANINI COMMON IN THE BASEMENT FREE JIMMY JOHN'S IS WAITING FOR YOU!!! 
UWIB 
UNDe!H:GRA·)·lATP, W'OMF.N tN rn..IS•N~ 
her body on the line -dove, stretched and leaped for every ball she could get to. She had a career-high 20 digs. When told of her career night, she laughed. 
"I didn't even know [about it]. It was a lot of fun." 
The momentum shifted in the third game, though, and the Longhorns proved their top 15 hype. Six-foot-five freshman Lauren Paolini played more like an experienced senior, pounding 13 kills and nabbing three blocks, and sophomore setter Michelle Moriarty had an astounding 4 7 set assists in the third game alone. The Horns took the hard-fought game 30­
28. They rode their momentum into the fourth game, dominating 30-22. 
Then in game five, the Irish let loose. They became the aggres­sor, and, again, Texas was on il'l heels. 
"I loved the way they [the Irish] came out and finished really, really strong," Brown said. 
For most of the match, despite the shaky third and fourth games, Notre Dame had more energy than Texas. An energetic crowd was crucial to the Irish maintaining focus, however ­especially against Arizona State. 
From the opening serve, the Sun Devils made the Irish aware they weren't going to be a pushover. Their 1-3 record was deceiving. Notre Dame won the first game 30-20, but was closer than the score indicates. 
"This is something we've got. We feel midfielders can score goals." 
After goalkeeper Chris Cahill allowed a deflection in the 37th minute, the Irish sealed the deal with a John Stephens goal off another Dalby free kick at 79:13. The Irish hammered the upset home with Joe Lapira's break­away feed from Alex Yoshinaga less than a minute later for a fmal score of 4-1. 
Although the victory was lop­sided, Clark felt the team showed more heart in the 1-0 loss to Wake Forest. 
"It's a funny thing because I felt we played better against Wake," Clark said. "I thought the team's performance was actual­ly better." 
The team's four goals against the Mustangs were good for morale, but Clark knows the effort the team puts into the game isn't always reflected on the scoreboard. 
"Sometimes in soccer the goals don't always tell the story," he said." They don't tell the whole story -we got goals fair­ly easily in that game but in many ways from a team per­spective, I felt we played better soccer against Wake." 
The scoreless regulation peri­ods were a hard-fought contest on Sunday, with both teams con­trolling parts of the play. 
Forward Kurt Martin had a 
The Sun Dnvils appeared over­matched by the Irish talent, but the underdogs carried their emotion into the second game. They won 30-28. 
They won again 30-21, and suddenly, the Irish looked beat­able. 
"We just reminded them that we've got to take it a point at a time," Brown said. "We wouldn't allow ourselves to get any momentum beeause we were a little bit tired, a little bit fatigued, so we just said, 'We can't save anything,' and 'Just go all out on every point."' 
Croal reached over the prnss row tables and bumped a ball back into play. Fellow freshman Madison Clark was getting floor burns diving for balls. Tarutis pancaked a ball -setting her hand completely flat on the floor and bouncing the ball oil'. And Herndon was her usually self. 

"You have to have that kind of defensive effort to stay in match­es, and I was really pleased the pursuit on defense, not giving up," Brown said. "ASU played great defense; their libero was just unbelievable. It was good that we tried to stay with that." 
The Irish won 30-20, 28-30, 21-30,30-23, 15-10. 
In addition to Brewster, Heniean, Croal and Tarutis made the all-tournament team. 
"It's a new season; it's a new team," Brown said. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

the erossbar. Cahill reeorded five saves over the course of the game. 
"I felt at the time when we lost the game we were really con­trolling the game, we were the team that was looking to win the game," Clark said. "That was disappointing. It was a very good game, it was an excellent game ... we had chances and they had chances." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, the Demon Deacons would be the team to capitalize on their chance with a goal in the 96th minute. 
"We looked like the team that was really wanting to win it," Clark said. "The trouble in sud­den death, you don't get an opportunity to come back, that's the end of the game." 
Clark said the Irish will watch game tape and prepare for the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament, which they host next weekend. They take mixed emotions out of this weekend's play. 
"It was kind of bittersweet," Clark said. "You were very happy to win the game against SMU whereas against Wake, you were happy to play well but dis­appointed not to win the game." 
The Irish next take the field against Boston University at 7:30 
p.m. on Friday. 
close call in the second half, Contact Kate Gales at sending a screaming shot over kgales@nd.edu 

• Featuring as guest speaker legendary NHL coach and Hockey Hall of Farner Scotty Bowman (former Detroit Red Wings head coach, 
wlnningest coach in NHL history -Including Nine Stanley Cups.) 
• 
Meet the 2005-06 Fighting Irish Hockey team and new head coach Jeff Jackson. 

• 
5-6pm open skate on the Joyce Center Ice Rink 

• 
6-6:45pm autographs with the Fighting Irish team. 



'l:.!A 

. 7pm Dinner Sponsored by Famous -Tickets are limited, Call the and Speaking Program. Notre Dame ticket office at 1-7356 to order yours today! ~l'oloTr·~ Dame, Saint Mary's, Tickets only Cross College $10 ::.nmr..nTs and Staff 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 5, 2005 
Mackenzie "We hadfour different rally for the said. "It bol­people score in the tying goal. 
sters our confi­Mackenzie felt
first game, so having

dence that we her team could 
can spread the a balance like that have handled 
offense like really helps to confuse Marietta most that." any other time, 
the other team. " 

The Belles but the Belles notched two in were forced to the first half on Caryn Mackenzie come off the goals by Maura Belles coach grueling SUNY­

While Thorlakson was provid­ing most of the offense on the night, she also had help. 
After carrying most of the offensive weight last year, Thorlakson has enjoyed the on­field company of second-semes­ter freshman star Kerri Hanks. 
Hanks scored her eighth goal early in her third collegiate game, receiving and capitalizing on up-field leads from Cinalli and senior midfielder Annie Schefter at 11 :46. She hit the far right corner from 10 yards out to put the Irish up 1-0. 
For Hanks, that extended her Irish record for goals to start both a career and season. 
It also marked a critical turn­ing point in the game for the team, which had struggled to maintain possession of the ball in the opening minutes of the game. 
"It took us about 15 minutes to get going," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. 
But from then on, the Irish had no problem controlling the ball. 
Notre Dame dominated in shots and shots on goal, finish­ing with 15 and eight, respec­tively, compared to Florida's seven and four. 
The Gators cut the lead to 4-1 with 11 minutes remaining when forward Jasmine Johnson tapped a crossing pass from KeLeigh Hudson into the right side of the net. 
But that would be all the Gators could muster. 
It was the only blemish on the night for Irish goalkeeper Erika Bohn, who saved Florida's other three shots on goal. 
The win improved the Irish to 52-13-3 against ranked oppo­nents under Waldrum. 
Notre Dame 6, Maryland 0 
Following Friday night's strong victory, the Irish dominated the Terrapins from the first minute, cruising to a 6-0 victory on Sunday afternoon. 
Hanks scored two more goals, couldn't set the pace and try to importantly, outshot Maryland slow the game down." by an 18-to-0 margin. 

Dame's 31. "With Maryland playing in an over­ "We talked about starting the game  took a pass from Thorlakson and beat Resnick  
time game on Friday, we felt like the depth that we had would give us  early with real high tempo so that they couldn't set  close to the net. Hanks added her second goal of the game, push­ 
the opportunity to really run them a lot and wear them down," Waldrum  the pace and try to slow the game down."  ing the lead to three, when she headed a pass from Candace  
said. "It was real  Chapman into the  
important, we talked about start­ing the game early  Randy Waldrum Irish coach  upper right cor­ner of the net. The Irish took  
with  real  high  the 3-0 lead into  
tempo so that they  the half, but more  

And that the Irish did, forcing Notre Dame's dominance con­fast play from the opening kick­tinued shortly into the second off. period, when Thorlakson netted 
To exacerbate the situation for her fifth goal of the season, an Maryland, Ashley Kennedy was unassisted shot from 20 yards given a red card at 10:19, which out. forced the Terps to play one­Susan Pinnick and Beth short for nearly 80 minutes. The Koloup also scored at 76:44 and Terps had a difficult time play­88:56 to put a game that saw ing a man down, and Waldrum the Irish completely outplay understood that some of his their opponent officially out of team's ability to control the reach. game was related to the ejec­Following the game, Waldrum tion. spoke about the importance of 
"In fairness to Maryland, a lit­the team's ability to rest some of tle bit of that domination had to its players in the second period. do with that," Waldrum said. "It gave us a chance to see 
Notre Dame scored its first some young players in the last goal 14:20 into the first period, 25 or 30 minutes, and still got a when Hanks picked up a couple of goals out of them," Thorlakson rebound and put the Waldrum said. ball in the top left portion of the The Irish will take their per­net to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. fect early season record into 
The Irish missed several next weekend, when they travel opportunities in the next 15 to California to take on Santa minutes due in part to several Clara on Friday and Gonzaga on tough saves by Maryland goal­Sunday. keeper Nikki Hesnick, but scored their second and third goals Contact Bobby Griffin at within five minutes of each other rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Tourney 
continued from page 20 
intimidating opponent. 
The Belles' new field strategy, which shifts a defender to an extra attacker position but main­tains defensive support, proved successful. 
"We had four different people score in the first game, so having a balance like that really helps to confuse the other team," 
Schoen and Ashley Hinton. Hinton tallied an assist on Schoen's goal, while Carrie Orr aided Hinton on her strike. 
SUNY-Brockport quickly reduced the Belles' advantage by scoring three unanswered goals between the first and second halves to take a 3-2 lead until Logan tied the game in the wan­ing minutes. 
"We just found a way," Mackenzie said. "We were down and playing a really tight match. 
"Our mental toughness in that game definitely was the overrid­ing plus. One of our team goals is to be mentally tough on the road. It was really an Achilles' heel for us last year." 
Marietta College faced off with 

(and everyfirst Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The student members of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invite gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Brockport 
game without a day's rest and play a well-rested host team. 
"We didn't have a lot of gas in the tank. It was kind of brutal to watch us play the second one," she said. 
Four members of the Belles made it to the All-Tournament team. Awarded these honors for the Marietta College Classic were Logan, Hinton, Fron and Carrie Orr. 
Saint Mary's next takes on Illinois Wesleyan away on Wednesday night. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
the Belles in the championship on Sunday. Marietta walked away with a 1-0 squeaker over a tired Saint Mary's squad. 
The lone goal came just under 1 0 minutes in the first half. The shot from Marietta attacker Amy Lehosit deflected off teammate Melissa Schulte in front of the net, squirting past goaltender Laura Heline (16 saves in two games) for the goal. 
The Belles provided consistent pressure on the Marietta defense 
but could not 
find a way to 

For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Wins 
continued from page 20 
opener. 
Thorlakson assisted on for­ward Amanda Cinalli's deciding goal 17:40 into the first half, then went on to score two of her own. 
The assist was a perfect cor­ner kick from the right side, allowing Cinalli to head the ball into the net. Her two goals came in the middle of the second half, with the first a one-timer off a cross by Christie Shaner. 
With that, she became just the seventh player in Irish history­and 28th in NCAA history -to reach 40 goals and 40 assists for her career. 
Her second goal came on a penalty kick at 75:12, and marked the 33rd time in the Irish's previous 49 goals that Thorlakson has either scored or assisted on the play. It extended Notre Dame's lead 4-0 and took the game's outcome out of ques­tion. 
becoming the fastest Irish player to 10 goals both for a season and a career, while Thorlakson scored once and assisted on two. 
The Irish completely con­trolled time of possession, and the Terps rarely had a chance to fight back on offense Maryland had only one shot to Notre at 28:30 and 33:15. 
"I thought the goalkeeper was great today," Waldrum said. "She came out and made two or three really big-time saves early in the first half." 
The Irish's second goal came 
when Carrie Dew scored her first goal of the season when she 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served*
COMMITTIU: ON 
GAT AND LUBIA.N STUDI!J"T N&IEDS 


Monday, September 5, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 

CROISSANTWORLD 

JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BEPOR 
rJ I 


02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NAGGI 

rJ 
1 
tBULJEM j

J r I I
1 j
www.jumble.com 
GOBUTH 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

WHAT COWBOYS 00 ON THE: RANGE. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ms: 

A"[ I I I J-ITJ" [I I J 
..,.
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BASSO TRAIT INCOME ADAGIO 
Yesterday's 

Answer: The exotic dancer quit because her paycheck was -TOO "MODEST' 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Be in harmony 5 Lewis with Lamb Chop 10 ___ out (barely 
made) 14 Functions 15 Poison 16 Editor's strikeout 
17 Removed as with a wave of the hand 
19 Altar area 
20 Asian New Year's festival 
21 Forever and a day 
22 Bother 
24 Upstream swimmer 
26 Chicken of the Sea product 
27 Popular sandwich cookie 
28 Gung-ho 
32 Backward-looking 35 Field of flowers? 37 Jong who wrote "Fear of Flying" 38 Downs' opposite 
41 Coach's encouraging words 
43 Nicotine's 
partner 44 A & B singer LaBelle 
46 Tough time 48 Santa_, Calif. 49 Santa _, Calif. 50 Every one 54 Fly catcher? 56 Baby's noisemaker 
58 Robert believe him, or not! 
60 Tailless cat 62 Wee bit 63 Sawy about 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:':+-:-t::::+=+:::-<t+:+~=-1 ..:-!--=+~•....::~•~:+:::+=-1 
·~~~~~··· 
-=+-::+.~:-! 
-:-+-=+::+::-! 
64 Mom-and-pop event ... and a hint to the insides of 17­and 41-Across and 11-and 40-Down 
67 Blow one's horn 68 Champing at 
the bit 69 Hankering 70 Alluring 71 Twirls 12 First lady before 
Mamie 
DOWN 1 Precisely 2 "Honest!" 3 Classic 
Volkswagen 4 Psychic ability, 
for short 5 Remain in a rut 6 Hydrant 
attachment 7 Base line on a 
graph 8 Free (of) 9 All thumbs 
1oMary lyler Moore co-star 11 Persisted 
1213 DoesOtherwiseand bucks 
18 Confucian path 
-;:+;;:-:+.::+.:rl 23 "I got it!" "7'i+-::+.:-i 25 Mafia 29 Water in the air -:::1-:::1-:-1 30 Foreword 31 Twosomes ___.__.__.___._--L.__, 33 Major TV maker 
THE OBSERVER 

WILLSHORTZ 

34 Boat mover 45 Three-part work 58 Burglarizes 
36 Narcotic 47 Tennis umpire's 59 Regarding cry
38 It's scanned at 60 Visitors to checkout: Abbr. Jesus
51 Garb 52 Gong sounds 

39 Chum 61 "_, brother!" 53 Bushes
40 Major irritant for 65 Listening-in
between yards
American device 
colonists 55 Varieties 

66 Where you may 42 Students 57 Tree feller get a soaking 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytirnes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Beyonce Knowles, 24; Jason David 
Frank, 32; lone Skye, 34; Mike Piazza, 37 
-· 
Happy Birthday: You've been contemplating what you want to do for some time and now you have to take action. A change is in order--look to the future with optimism. "you don't take advantage, you may never forgive yourself. Your lucky numbers are 6, 9, II, 28, 35, 47 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Deal with any matters that concern your pet if you have one or your own personal health and well-being. The more changes you make to ensure a better lifestyle, the better. Consider a career change. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Plan a social event at your house or make plans to do something exciting with friends or family. Don't let things get too serious. It's time to relax and enjoy yourself. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have a creative eye today hut are likely to meet with opposition. Don't dictate what you arc going to do. Plant the seed and let everyone around you think that the idea is a group effort. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your heart is in the right place, and offering a helping hand should work out in your favor. Don't expect your loved ones to he too happy about your spending time assisting someone else. A short outing will appease. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try to incorporate something in your day that relates to work, making money and getting ahead. Someone you know outside of work will be able to shed light on how the people around you perceive you. A disciplined approach will ensure success. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A hectic pace may not be your thing, but today you will thrive on the excitement it provides. Being a little unpredictable will keep others guessing. Love may be on your mind, but don't let it consume you. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may want to take on a new project at home. The chance to do some of the work yourself will not only save you money, hut it will bring you great satisfaction. Lady Luck is in your corner. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): By doing for others, you will raise your profile and ensure that nothing will stand in the way of following your dreams. Organize an event--you will win favors from people who will help you out in the future. **** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be charming and think you've won over the people you have talked to along the way. However, someone is likely to hit a sensitive subject that makes you appear unsure of yourself. The individual trying to derail you will not he who you suspect. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't stop doing what you really want to do because someone is making you feel guilty or putting too many demands on you. This can be an ideal day with fabulous results. The contacts you make by following your own path will he to your benefit. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It may be the weekend, hut if something needs to be looked after, do the groundwork so you are fully prepared to resolve these issues as soon as possible. Added responsibilities will he necessary if you want to get things done. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your interests are changing, and you will discover that the people you have been spending time with and the people you want to 
-
spend time with are very different. Don't bum bridges or give up what you have. Instead, try to give equal time to both. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are practical when it comes to your personal life. You can charm anyone into accommodating you. You are artistic, sensitive and open­minded. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comjor confidl'lltial consu/llltions 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City _______________ State _____ Zip_______ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, September 5, 2005 
page 20 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Total domination 


Hanks scores four as Irish outduel two ranked foes, 10-1 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Two more games, two more wins. 
It was hard to find much wrong with Notre Dame's play this weekend, as the Irish cruised through the Inn at Saint Mary's Classic, defeating Florida and Maryland on their way to winning the tournament title. 
"We're going to have a great team this year," Katie Thorlakson said. "We built on our team last year and were just stronger and stronger. We're probably going to bring it to every team we play this year." 
Thorlakson was named tour­nament MVP after scoring three goals and adding three assists on the weekend. 
Notre Dame 4, Aorida 1 
Thorlakson and the Irish shook off a slow start Friday night to beat the No. 13 Florida Gators in front of 2,086 fans at Alumni Field in the team's home 
see WINS/pagel8 


MEN's SoccER 
Irish split W"eekend lllatchups 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
They left with mixed feelings, mixed results and a new record of 1-1. 
But the No. 16 Irish made a statement to a nation of fans wondering how this team will fare in this season's spotlight. Notre Dame beat No. 7 Southern Methodist University, 4-1, and lost a close overtime match to No. 10 Wake Forest. 
"They were both good teams," coach Bobby Clark said. "I think winning one and losing one ... you're not quite sure whether to be happy or sad. I suppose we seem a little bit more sad because the second one was a loss, and it was a tough loss." 
The Irish faced the Mustangs in the first game Saturday and jumped out to a 1-0 lead on Greg Dalby's free kick in the first two minutes of play. The standout midfielder, known for his defen­sive play, notched his first career 
see SPLIT/page 17 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish top ASU for championship 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
Lauren Brewster loves volley~ ball so much she doesn't want to stop playing -even for a time­out. 
"It's harder because the time,­outs were longer," she said, referring to the lengthened time outs because of College Sports Television's airing of Saturday's match. "You're all ready; your adrenaline is going; you just want to get back in there and you just have to sit down and take another minute." 
She and her Notre Dame teammates enjoyed playing so much this weekend that they played the maximum 10 games in two matches -though, in this case, they would much rather have finished ofl' their opponents quicker. 
"I think that in both cases, in both last night and today, we played really good fifth games," coach Debbie Brown said. "I think that's good. You feel like, 'OK, I think if we get to the fifth game, then we know how to be tough, and we know how to compete hard.' 

"We would prefer not to be in that situation, but I think it showed good mental toughness." 
The Irish (3-0) won their own The Inn at Saint Mary's Shamrock Invitational, beating 11th ranked Texas (1-1) and unheralded but scrappy Arizona State (1-4). 
At least, after this weekend, 
see CHAMPS/pagel7 
SMC SoccER 

Belles miss out on tournament title 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

The Belles soccer team fell just short of a tournament champi­onship this weekend after bat­tling through two physically tax­ing games in a one-day span. 
Saint Mary's faced off against SUNY­Brockport and earned a spot against tour­nament host Marietta College in the­championship 


Fron

of the two-day Marietta College Classic. Both games were close, and both were decided by one goal. 
The Belles managed to knock off SUNY-Brockport in the open­ing game, a double-overtime offensive show that pushed the Saint Mary's players to their physical limits. The Belles won, 4-3. 
The deciding goal came from freshman Whitney Fron late in the second overtime. Fron bent the ball into the upper right cor­ner of the net on a shot taken nearly 35 yards out, driven from the high left side of the goalkeep­er's box. The goal secured the Belles victory after 102 minutes of action. 
"It was a great shot, just really well done," Belles coach Caryn Mackenzie said. 
Fron also assisted on the goal that tied the game with a little 
· over two minutes left to play in regulation time. Fron dished the ball to Carolyn Logan, who netted it to tie the game 3-3 and send it to overtime. 
Mackenzie was impressed with how her team maintained a con­sistent level of play through the lengthy game against a physically 
see TOURNEY/pagel8 


SMC GOLF 
U.S. OPEN 
MlB 
MI..B 
Belles place 11th 
Venus defeats foe 
White Sox 2 

Mets 7 
Serena in two sets 
Tigers 0 
in tournament 

Marlins 1 
After defeating her 
sister in the semifinals,
Saint Mary's golfers· 
AL Cy Young candi-

New York kept 
did well individually in 
Venus ties the Williams 
date Jon Garland shut 

Florida half a game 
this weekend's match. 
sisters' rivalry. 
out Detroit for his 17th 

back in the tight NL 
win this season. 

wild card race. 
page 12 
page 12
page 17 
page 15 









