
THE 

~~~ The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
Duerson resigns from Board ofTrustees 
Former ND football captain is 
1983 graduate often spoke charged with assaulting wife publicly about Irish program 
By CLAIRE HEININGER By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
News Editor News Writer 
Fornwr Notre Damn football captain and Dave Duerson. the former Irish football All­two-tinw All-American Dave Duerson was American who recently resigned from the Board charged Monday with assaulting his wife of Trustees, leaves a legacy of pointed public c~arly Thursday morning at The Morris Inn, comments about event.'> surrounding the Notre the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office said Dame football program. in a statement. Duerson. a trustee since Duerson, who was charged with two counl'i of 2001. voluntarily resignnd his post Friday battery and two counts of domestic battery and is also nxpncted to resign as president of Monday after allegedly assaulting his wife tlw Monogram Club. a two-year appointment Photo courtesy of und.com Thursday, had been a University trustee since 
Dave Duerson, right, presents an Honorary Monogram at a Monogram Club sec DUERSON/pagc 6 meeting. Duerson Is expected to resign as president of the Monogram Club. sec VOCAL/page 9 

Baron, Leito tickets advance to runoff 
51 percent ofstudents cast votes; one ticket incurs a violation 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
A"istant News Editor 
.I udicial council presideflt Brin Anderson announced pri­vately to the candidates for stu­dent body president that the tickets of !>ave Bart111-Lizzi Shappell and James Leito­Jordan Bongiovanni would advance to Thursday's runoff election at a meeting 10:15 
p.m. Monday. 
With 1.3:B votes, or 31.8 per­cent of the total, junior Baron and sophomore Shappell edged out juniors Loito and Bongiovanni, who had 1.074 voll~s. or 25.6 percent. Abstentions made up 2.6 per­cent of votes. A total of 4,186 Notre Damn students voted, constituting a 51 percent turnout rate-8.5 percent higher than last year's election. 
"We're very pleased with the turnout results," Anderson said. "We worked very hard to garner more support from stu­dPnts by holding debates in a more accnssibh~ place. passing out flyers, reminding students to volt~ and setting up a voting booth in LaFortunn." 
Though the polls closed at H 
p.m. Monday. a reported cam­paign violation forced the 
sec RUNOFF/page 9 

Student Body Presidential Election Results 
Baron & Shappell Leito &. 

4,816 students (51% of the student body) participated. 113 voters (2.7%) abstained. A runoff election between Baron and Leito will take place on Thursday. 
Brede & Ramanan White & 
Healy&
Powers Costa Marra & 
CLAIRE KELLEYffhe Observer 
The student body presidential and vice presidential tickets of James Lelto-Jordan Bongiovanni, left, and Dave Baron-Lizzl Shappell learned Monday night that they will advance to the runoff election. 
Losing tickets disappointed with outcome; decline to endorse remaining candidates 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
While disappointed in the outcome of Monday's primary prnsidential elections and fail­ing to advance to Thursday's runoff. tickets Brede­Bamanan, White-Powers. llealy-Costa and llarig-Marra oxprnssed satisfaction with their campaign efforts. 
Of the non-advancing tick­ets. Brede-Hamanan came in third with 610 votes, 
White-Powers took fourth with 505 votes. Healy-Costa finished fifth with 419 votes and Harig-Marra brought up the rear with 122 votes. 
Dorm loyalty proved to be a factor. demonstrated by the fact that Brede-Ramanan won Alumni, White-Powers won Sorin and Healy-Costa won 

Zahm. Brede-Hamanan also won Carroll and Fisher and White-Powers won Knott. 
"We're obviously disap­pointed not to make the runoff. but we're both happy with the issues we put on the table and the campaign we ran." said Vijay Ramanan, former vice-presidential can­didate. speaking for himself and running mate Craig Brede. 
Ramanan said that neither he nor Brede had thought much about their future in student government, but noted that he had "a lot to fin­ish up this term in Senate" and that Brede will serve as Alumni Hall president for the rest of the semester. 
Alec White and Erik Powers also expressed disappoint-
see ENDORSE/page 4 


Students see profs as liberal 
By MICHAEL BUSK 
News Writer 
Editor's Note: This is the second in a three-part series exploring the role of partisan politics in classes at Notre Dame. 
With the prevailing trend in academia leaning to the left, as many students and professors noted, Notre Dame's always !=atholic and often conserv.ativn tone~ can sometimes lead to tension within departments and IWPil between professors and thP.ir students. 
Last semester. philosophy professor Kenneth Sayre taught a class called Environmental Philosophy. Subjects discussed included Western consumerism, global warming, Alaskan oil-drilling and other controversial sub­jects. Sayre said that although he generally keeps his political views in the background in his morn con­ventional philosophy classes. this class soon developed a different tone. 
"It's good not to Jet your own views enter into the dis­cussion. if you can have .any control over it," said Sayre. "I began the course with the point of view of keeping my own political views complete­ly in the background. As time went on, that became less and less possible." 
Sayre said that since many of his students who took the class were already con­cerned with the current state of the environnwnt. many had more progressive points of view. Nonetheless. he maintained that the class­room discussion never descended to the level ol' ser­
see POLITICS/page 6 

r----------~---------­
Tuesday, February 8, 2005 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Proud legacy child 
When sitting down to think of what I could possibly write about for my inside column (yes, ideas for these are harder to come up with than you may think), I was brought back to last week's "town­ie" column and thought, what about the legacies? 
Yes, I'm one of "them." 
Twenty-six years ago, my mom, a jock BP babe who lives for March Madness, and dad, a ROTC accountancy Tricla de Groot Zahmbie, who swears the dorm was different when News Writer he was here (no bun runs back then, or at least let's hope not) met via a mutual friend. My mom, or so I'm told, acted kind of like a fifth grader does when they like someone. You know, the "Eeew, Steven de Groot, how could anyone like him?" attitude accompanied by a series of childish pranks. But, I guess it worked for my dad because last year my par­ents made the almost 700 mile drive· from Atlanta, about half of which is 

I through Indiana cornfields (which 
r-makes the drive seem about twice as long), to drop their oldest, that's me, off at Walsh Hall. My dad proudly boasts that the first song I learned was the Notre Dame Fight Song, the result of a long car ride with a two-year-old and a real love for the Irish. We have a "Play Like a Champion Today" sign at the foot of the basement stairs, which my parents give even my Purdue friends grief about ifthey don't hit in on the way down. And yes, the only reason we got cable television growing up was so that my dad could watch Notre Dame football games. Notre Dame has been a part of me since August of 1985, when at just two weeks old my parents moved back to South Bend to live during the school year, so that my dad could join the Notre Dame Law School class of 1988 and become a double darner (guess four years here just wasn't enough for him). However, the ND tradition didn't just start with my parents. I have a picture of my mom's parents standing in front of the dome before a formal when my grandfather was a junior here. My mom's sister, Tricia, is one of the names lining the wall of the JACC. (To this day, my mom swears that if she had been a couple of inches taller she could have played basketball for the Irish too.) Some people might hear my story and think that the only reason I'm here is because I'm a legacy. That may in part 
be true, but because I've always loved the school so much, I did all I could so that I too could become part of the Fightin' Irish. 
Reading this, you might think that I'm awfully cheesy, which I probably am, but sometimes, I think that's ok. Sure, there are things that frustrate me abom the school, and yes, I do find myself complaining to the tune of my peers about things I wish could change, but I wouldn't have it any other way. I am, and we are, ND. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Con tact Trici a deGroot at pdegroot@nd. edu 
CORRECTION 
An article in the Feb. 7 issue ofThe Observer said thai the $40 million donated to the University by John Jordan translated into nine trillion pennies. That amount is equal to 4 billion pennies. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE SUPER BOWL COMMERCIAL AND WHY? 




.
Rob Lindley Elizabeth Clifton Esther Probst 
freshman sophomore junior Keough University Village LeMans 
"The one with "Ced, The "Emerald nuts 
M.C Hammer. Entertainer's -all the Those pants can designated unicorns will do so much for driver dance die ifyou eat you. because it them." brings back 
fond memories." 
OFFBEAT 
Mich. boy drives mother's car Into video store 
SAND LAKE, Mich.-A boy drove his mother's car to a video store in the middle of 
the night, police said ­ and  
he's all of 4 years old.  
Even  though  he  was  

unable to reach the accelera­tor, the boy managed to put the car in gear and the idling engine provided enough power to take him slowly to the store, a quarter-mile from his home, about 1:30 
a.m. Friday, Police Chief Doug Heugel said. Finding the store closed, the young­ster began a slow trip home. 
Weaving and with its head­lights off, the car got the attention of police Sgt. Jay Osga, who initially thought he was following a driverless car that had taken off after being left running at a gas pump. 

The car turned into the boy's apartment complex and struck two parked cars, then backed up and struck Osga's police car. 
That's when Osga discov­ered the boy inside. 
Man fined for throwing breakfast sandwich 
HOLLAND, Mich. -A man was fined $600 and put on probation for throwing an Egg McMuffin at a McDonald's restaurant man-


because Ced is hilarious. " 

ager after he said he didn't get what he ordered. 
Scott Rodgers, 46, was convicted Thursday of mis­demeanor assault and bat­tery. Besides probation, he was sentenced to three days in a work program and a fine and is banned from the McDonald's. 
Authorities said Rodgers and his 6-year-old son stopped to get four Egg McMuffms with ham on Oct. 9 but returned to the service window to complain that at least one of the sandwiches had sausage. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
::c 
"' 
3: "' ~ 
...1 
<C 
(,) 



26 20 

29 21 

28 18 
.9 HIGH 36 
LOW 30 


Jason Perkins  Charlie Doar  Tom Le  
graduate student off-campus  sophomore Sorin  sophomore Siegfried  
"Cedric, The Entertainer's fantasy commmercial  "The local one with the guy running to Menard's"  "I liked the one where the pilot jumpred out of the plane  

becuase it is 
something I 
would do." 
IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team takes on Boston College today at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
Four: 7 is sponsoring a show­ering of "The Passion of the Christ" in honor of Ash Wednesday at 9 p.m. in the Coleman Morse lounge. 
Notre Dame will present its second annual Queer Film Festival beginning Wednesday and continuing through Saturday. The event takes place all day in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts and is sponsored by the department of film, television and theatre. 
The class of 2008 is holding "Speed Dating" Thursday from 7 p.m. to 10 p_m. at Legends. 
Actors from the London Stage will stage a performance of "Othello" Friday and Saturday nights at 7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the Peforming Arts. The event is sponsored b y the department of film, television and theatre. 
Chicago Samba, a Midwest­based music ensemble that performs authenti-c Brazilian music, will perform at the Palais Royale Friday from 8 
p.m. until midnight. The event is free and open to the public. It is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute, International Student Services and Activities, International Study Programs, La Alaianza and WVPE 88.1 FM. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 62152 Boston 44135 Chicago 36129 Denver 351 24 Houston 70 I 59 Los Angeles 66 I 47 Minneapolis 20 I 12 New York 49 I 38 Philadelphia 50 I 39 Phoenix 69 I 48 Seattle 50 I 33 St. Louis 41 I 31 Tampa 76 I 56 Washington 57 I 41 

Tuesday, February 8, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS pag~ 3 
BOG 
Tsunatni catnpaign evaluated 
By KELLY BALE 
New; Wri1er 
Members of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) nwt Monday to discuss the results of the first week of il<> "Love Makes the World Go 'Hound, Show Your Love" L-;un1uni reli1~f campaign. 
AftPr the first week of cam­paigning, which consL-;ted of a night of going door to door in dorms and leaving donation bags at several locations on campus, BOG collected $324,(,1{ out of their goal of $1 per student. or $1,341. 
"IThisl is a big project but I think it's ... worth our time," said BOG executive treasurer Molly Wdton. "All of us should bn advocates for this cam­paign." 
BOG focused its discussion on creating more success throughout the rest of the cam­paign. which liL-;L<; until the end ofth1~ month. 
"J think it needs to be talked up a little more," Student lliv1~rsity Board president Adriana Puente said. 
Members discussed chang­ing the type of collection tool from decorated bags. to a see through bowl so that donations would be morn visible to stu­dent-;. 
i\ftnr deciding that donation bags atom~ were not bringing in the amounts that were hoped for, student body presi­dent Sarah Catherine White, along with other BOG mem­bers, brainstormed ideas for attracting further involvement from the student body. White said that one of the reasons the campaign was designed to last the whole month was so that if necessary. adjustments could be made. 
"i\ny plan has to be reevalu­ated," student body vice-presi­dent Mary Pauline Moran said. 
BOG decided to have more evenl'i set up for the rest of the campaign. It discussed putting tables in front of the flaggar Student Center and inside Madeleva in hopes of attract­ing off-campus students. Members also suggested con­tacting resident assistants and having them e-mail resident<>, setting up an event in the din­ing hall during lunch hours and creating an advertisement on the Saint Mary's Web site. 
"We're stepping up the pub­licity," Moran said. 
BOG also approved two co­sponsorships through the Student Academic Council. The College Hepublicans were allot­ted $1 00 dollars per student who attends the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington D.C. from Feb. 17­19, with the stipulation that the group gives a presentation to the student body upon return. 

The Social Work Department wa,s granted $1.250 for a group of 16 students, one fac­ulty member and three com­munity leaders to attend the National Conference on Child Abuse and Neglect in Boston from Apr. 18-23. The group will be putting together a for­mal presentation for the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership and the student body. In other BOG news: 
+ 
BOG approved the found­ing of the Irish Club, which is a new dub that hopes to bring aspecl'i of the Irish culture to Saint Mary's. 


+ 
SDB will hold a cultural taste fest on Feb. 17. 

+ 
Student Activities Board will sponsor a fundraiser tonight at Hacienda. Approximately 20 percent of each bill will be given to SAB to help fund upcoming spring events. Tokens can be picked up at the Student Activities office or from any SAB mem­ber. 

+ 
Freshman Class Board will be selling class sweatshirts this week in the dining hall. 

+ 
Freshman bowling will be held Feb. 13 from 8 to 10 pm. The cost is $3 to bowl and tick­ets can be picked up at the front desk in Haggar. 


Contact Kelly Bale at kbaleO 1 @nd.edu 

COR 

Council assesses fund for concerts or speakers 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Wriler 

In the midst of student body president and vice president elec­tions, the Council of Hepresentatives met briefly Monday to discuss the progress being made on the possible endow­ment fund for concerts or speakers at the University. 
COR recently formed a commit­tee to address the likelihood and logistics of creating such an endowment. which Council mem­bers predkted would be valued between $1 million and $5 million. Though details are still being debated, COR considered con­tributing $100,000 from Student Government's carry-over fund, which has accumulated an excess of money over the past few years. 
Dave Baron, chief executive assistant and a member of the newly-created committee, updated representatives on the steps being taken to create the endowment. 
Baron told representatives that the next step is to speak with vari­ous members of the Notre Dame community to acquire a better understanding of what is involved. 
"We met to discuss the concert endowment and whether it would go to concerts. speakers or both. We decided we need to talk to peo­ple to see which is the most feasi­ble," Baron said. 
Baron notnd that meetings will be scheduled with the Office of Student Affairs, the Investment Office and the Student Activities Office in the next few weeks. 
Jimmy Flaherty, the Student Union Board manager and a com­mittee member. told representa­tives that he hoped this fund could be modeled after other well-known endowments at the University. 
"We arc going to gather as much information as we can. We need to learn how thny are start11d up and managed." Flaherty said. "We need to find a rnodpf." In otlwr COR news: 
+ Baron and Karla Bell, student body vice president. spoke to rep­resentatives about their presenta­tion to the Board of Trustees. The report, which is the second of three presentations for the year, focused on issues of diversity on campus. 
"The Board really liked it. They said that it was a problem when they were here in 1996," Bell said. "They said it was in the top tier of reports they had ever received because a lot of the time it's just people asking for money." 
Baron was quick to note that the third report, which will discuss solutions to the problems present­ed in the second report, will require a great deal of effort. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Law& • • • An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series February 9, 2005 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom The Effects of Welfare and Tax Reform: The Material Well-Being ofSingle Mothers in the 1980s and 1990s Presenter James Sullivan Department ofEconomics and Econometrics Commentator Michael Kirsch The Law School  

Tuesday, February 8, 2005 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Charat: France still uneasy ally 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Assistant News Editor 
Sylvain Charat, a former his­tory professor at the University of Paris-Sorbonne and assistant to former Finance Minister Alain Madelin, downplayed the strained relationship between 
· the United States and France during a lecture at Saint Mary's yesterday. Charat asserted that French­American relations are current­ly tense. but that the distrust born out of the 2003 invasion of Iraq is slight in comparison with past moments of crisis, including during the French Revolution, World War II and in the 1860's when France attempted to establish its power in Mexico. According to Charat, French­American relations reached one of its worst periods during the 1960's when President Charles de Gaulle sought to build a strong independent France and European Union by seeking to obtain nuclear arms. "This agenda was extremely worrying for the United States," said Charat. "In the 1960s the relations were not good at all, even worse I would say, than right now." Charat called the current uneasiness between the two countries "typical of the rela­tions of the United States and France" since the birth of the French Fifth Republic in 1958. "You have to know that France was not against an armed intervention in Iraq [ini­tially]." said Charat. 
According to Charat, French president Jacques Chirac, agreed to support the United States in Iraq under U.N. reso­lution 14. which granted the right to use force in certain cir­cumstances. 
From a business perspective, support for the American-lead invasion would have been a wise decis-ion, said Charat. French entrepreneurs and bankers would have had an advantage in securing lucrative development contracts. 
However, the French presi­dent reversed his decision in January 2003, leaving the French public confused and the Bush administration slighted. 
"We had a sense in Paris that a promise was made and not fulfilled," said Charat. "The question is why the French change their minds because it was very fast and it was rather unexpected." 
The change in the French position on the invasion is very complex, Charat said, and stems from both internal and international sources. 
Charat cited the first reason as changing demographics in France and in Europe as a whole. 
"In France there is about five million Muslims," said Charat. "That's a huge power in a way. The big problem is that the French society fails to integrate them into French society." 
With a growing Muslim popu­lation, it would have been domestically unpopular to sup­port the invasion of Iraq, said Charat. Such a stance would have alienated a demographic that already fails to identify with French culture. Further, those votes will be important to Chirac in the next presidential election. 

Opposing the United States gave France an opportunity to act as a leader in the European community, Charat said. · 
"France is a leading force in the European Union and wants a strong European Union in a multi-power world," said Charat. "[ChiracJ doesn't want a 
world where France is  con­ 
trolled by other states."  
The  anti-war  stance  also  

reflected differences in political ideology. According to Charat, Chirac does not believe democ­racy will work for all nation states. Attempting to bring democracy to a place such as Iraq, therefore, would be a mis­take. 
The effects of two World Wars fought on French soil have col­ored its approach to interna­tional conflict, said Charat. 
"The Europeans prefer nego­tiating to going to war," Charat said. "It may be because of our history." 
Charat said he was confident that French-American relations will improve in the future. 
"We have now to set up new relations. It is extremely hard, the Iraqi crisis helped show us that." 
The United States will have to improve its relationship not just with the estranged French gov­ernment, but also with the European Union. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at 
onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Endorse 
continued from page 1 
ment with the outcome. but remained upbeat about the situation. 
"I guess this proves that student government is not a popularity contest." Powers said. He said that the election could be described in three words: "Dewey defeats Truman." 
To this statement, White added one word: "Recount." He later exclaimed that the pair did better than Ross Perot. 
When asked about his plans for the future. Powers said, ''I'm think­a 
ing of making "It was always our honest deci­myself available goal to beat sion." for more SYRs. Staying with
'abstain.'"
My e-mail the neutral 
address is on theme, Marra [our campaign] Will Marra said that he and Web site. I real­former presidential Ilarig were ly like wildflow­candidate throwing 50 ers, and I have percent of their 
pastel shirts to support to each match every candidatP. occasion." . After deliberation. White 
Mark Healy and Bob Costa and Powers concluded. "We said that their experience are going to support absti­had been very positive. nence, unless Lizzi or Jordan ''I'm thankful to and appre­don't want us to." 
ciative of everyone who sup­ported our campaign," Costa said. Contact Maddie Hanna at 
Healy, who plans to contin-mhannal@nd.edu 
ue "to support SUB in every capacity," encouraged voters to get involved in student government. 
Pete Harig and Will Marra said that they felt "great" despite their last place finish. 
"It was always our goal to beat 'abstain."' said Marra, who added the pair would continue to stay involved in student government. 
None of the former candi­dates chose to support either the Baron-Shappell or LPito­Bongiovanni tickets in this Thursday's runoff. 
"I think we're going to stay out of that one," Ramanan said. 
Healy and Costa agreed, 
encouraging 
students to 
make "good, 


THE is now accepting applications for 


R General Board 
Any full time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit a resume and an application at least 3 pages long explaining how they would run their department. 

NEWS EDITOR 
Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News 
Ed1tor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and is .responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR 
ApP.Iicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports 
Ed1tor manages a staff·of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and 
special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is 
responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR, 
Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to 
deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of editors and 
columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SCENE EDITOR 
Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The Scene 
Ed1tor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas and 
is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR 
Applicants should have photography experience. The Photo Editor manages 
a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with the 
News, Sports and Scene department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR 

Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor man­ages Saint Mary's department heads,· coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The 
Advertising Manager oversees a staff of account executives and is responsible 
for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Quark Xpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager over­sees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing depart­ments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR 
Applicants must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site. The Web ·Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial department of The 
Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The 
Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top­quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 8, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TttE ()ssERVFR'S WIRE sERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bush seeks peace in Middle East 
W/\SIIIN<;ToN -President Bush is mak­in!-{ a push for peace between Israel and the Palestinians. It's a goal that has frustrated /\nwriean prnsid1~nts for dncadns, ynt admin­istration ol'licials believe eonditions may be ripe for a breakthrough with recent changes in tlu1 region and a nnw emphasis in Washington on spreading democracy. 
Bush has rour years left to build his legacy and no doubt hopes to sen the Mideast peace that eluded predncnssor Bill Clinton. 
Tlw administration plunged back into the pmtcnmaking business on Monday, on the eve or a summit in Hgypt bPlwtH~n Israeli Prime Minister /\riel Sharon and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas. Tlw leaders will declare a CIHtSP-lim to 1md 4 1/2 years of lighting, said tlu~ two sides. 
Detainees speak of abuse at camp 
W/\SIIIN(;TON -Nearly a down detainees at tlw (;uantanamo Bay prison camp contend tlwy won~ wrongly imprisoned afll~r repeated abusP by U.S. troops in Afghanistan and Pakistan, induding beatings with chains. nlec­tric shork and sodomy. thoir lawyer said Monday. 
"These are classic stories of men who end<~d up in (;uantanamo by mistake,." charged attorney Tom Wilner, who represents 11 Kuwaiti prisoners held in the detention center at tlw U.S. Navy base in <~astern Cuba. 
Most or his clients say they falsdy confessed to belonging to Afghanistan's ousted Taliban roginw or the ai-Qaida terror network as a way to stop the abuse, Wilner said. lie said onn is too angry over his treatment to discuss details of his case. but all argue their deten­tions aro unjustifi11d. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Inmate ordered to pay $2 million 
NEW YOHK -An imprisoned child moles­tor and fornwr mental patient was ordered lo pay $2 million to the family of a (>-year-old boy whoso IIJ71) disappearance helped give risn to thn national movement to publicize tlw casos of missing children. 
Tho judg<~ who ordernd Jose H. Hanws lo pay the money also ruled in May 2004 that Hamos was msponsiblo for Elan Patz' death al'tPr tlw inmatn ignored orders to answer dPposition qunstions for a lawyer !'or the boy's parPnts. 
Brian O'Dwynr. lawyer for Stanley and .Julia l'atz. had tried unsuccessfully to inter­vi,·w Harnos at thn Ponnsylvania prison wlwn~ he is s11rving a 20-year sentence for s11xually abusing an 8-yoar-old boy. 

Mayor faces gay marriage dilemma 
NI:W YOHK -Mayor Michael Bloomberg stakod out a compromise position in the gay­marriage ddHtte: lit~ would publicly Sl.!pport gay marriag<1. but rhall11nge a court deeision allowing it. 
That stance has pleased almost no one. h•llow Hepublicans are calling him a Dmuocrat in disguise, and gays aro calling him a roward. 
Tlw furor illustrat<~S Bloombnrg's peculiar political dilemma as a nwdcrat11 Hepubliean running for rn-election in November in this ov11rwhelmingly liberal, Democratic city with an active gay community. 
LOCAL NEWS 

1V station responds to complaints 
SOUTII BEND-An Indiana television sta­tion that aired an ad attacking President Bush's Social Security reform tacked on a llH1ssage of its own after receiving objections from Hepublican leaders. 
.lim Bohling. president and general manag­er of WNDU-TV in South Bend, said the sta­tion amended a commercial from MoveOn.Org in response to a letter from the Hepublican National Committee that called tho ad's claims "baseless." 


Cards, gifts pour in for pope 
Holy See's No. 2 official, Cardinal Angelo Sodano, faces resignation question 
Associated Press 

HOME-From inmates in prisons he has visited to diplomats from onn the few countries he hasn't, get­well messages and girts have been pouring in for Pope John Paul II. who the Vatican said Monday will stay longer in the hospital as a precaution. 
Papal spokesman .Joaquin Navarro-Valls told reporters that the popn continued to get better a wcnk after his emergency admission to the Gemelli Polyclinic with breathing problems that developed with the l'lu. but that "his doctors have advised him to stay a few more days." 
Navarro-Valls refused to be pinned down on a dis­charge date for the 84­year-old pope, who is also weakened by Parkinson's disease. "Doctors have sug­gested several more days," he said. 
The next medical bulletin from the Vatican is sched­uled for Thursday. 
The good wishes started 11ooding in at Gemelli last Wednesday, when pilgrims from John Paul's native Poland brought red and white 11owers in the colors of their 11ag. 
Ilard to miss was a near­ly 6-foot-high arrangement of roses in yellow and white, the ol'licial colors of sis again stimulating talk what to do," Sodano added. breath and wracked with the Vatican, sent last week about whether the frail Only a few minutes earli­coughing fits and would by the Libyan Embassy. pontiff should or would er, Sodano had expressed a have died within 10 min­Libya is one of the few retire, the lloly See's No. 2 wish that John Paul -now utes if not hospitalized. nations that the pope has­official. Cardinal Angelo in his 27th year as pontiiT Asked about the report. a n't toured in his papal Sodano, took the unusual -would surpass Pius IX's Vatican ol1icial said the sit­globe-trotting, which has step of responding to a 32 years in office as the uation was "serious, very taken him to 104 countries. reporter's question Monday longest papacy. serious" when John Paul 
Ilospital stalT quickly dis­about whether the pope But while he rooted for was taken to the hospital at patched overflow floral had thought about resign­the pope to continue, 10:50 p.m. arrangements to Home ing. Sodano's addressing of a "If it were controllable, churches. Flowers from the "Let's leave this hypothe­long-taboo subject could he would have been taken governments of Libya and sis up to the pope's con­indicate there is debate to the hospital the next Qatar decoratnd the hospi­science," said Sodano, an within the Vatican over morning," the ofneial said, tal chapel. Italian who is Vatican sec­whether the pope might speaking on condition of 
The tributes were testi­retary of state. step down. Popes may anonymity. mony to the speeial regard "If there is a man who resign but cannot be forced Shortly after John Paul much of the world holds for loves the church more than to do so. was taken to Gemelli, the pope, among both anybody else, who is guid­A U.S. religious affairs Vatican ol'licials told The Catholics and non­ed by the lloly Spirit, if magazine, Inside the Associated Press that the Catholics. as well as to the there is a man who has Vatican, reported that ponti!T's aides decided on widespread concern for his marvelous wisdom, that's when John Paul was urgent hospitalization health. him. We must have great rushed to the hospital Feb. because he was having a 
With the new health cri-faith in the pope. lie knows 1, he was gasping for breathing "crisis." 
IRAQ 

Kurdish ticket advances in election 
the Shiite clergy leads among the 111 Talabani, has announced his candida­
Associated Press 

candidate lists, with a !ina! tally of cy for the presidency. 
BAGHDAD -A Kurdish ticket last week's election for a 275-mem­Allawi's ticket trailed with about 13 pulled into second place ahead of ber National Assembly expected by percent of the vote, with the Shiite U.S.-backed Prime Minister Ayad week's end. ticket leading with about half the Allawi's candidates in Iraq's national Allawi, who favors strong ties with votes. Shiites comprise about 60 per­election after votes were released the United States, had hoped to cent of Iraq's 26 million people. Monday from the Kurdish self-gov­emerge as a compromise choice for Monday's attacks were the latest erning area of the north. Insurgents prime minister, but the Shiite cleric­sign that insurgents are stepping up struck Iraq's security forces with sui­backed ticket say they want one of attacks against Iraq's security forces, cide bombs and mortar fire, killing their own for the top job. which the United States hopes can more than 30 people . Kurds, estimated at 15-20 percent assume a greater role once a newly 
First election returns from the of the population, gave most of their elected government takes ofTice. The Sunni heartland confirmed on votes to a joint ticket made up of the bombings and kidnappings have shat­Monday that many Sunnis stayed two major Kurdish parties, which tered a brief downturn in violence away from ballot box, leaving the was in second with about 24 percent after the Jan. 30 elections, the first field to Shiite and Kurdish candidates. of the votes reported as of Monday. nationwide balloting since the fall of A Shiite-dominated ticket backed by One of the Kurdish leaders. Jalal Saddam llussein in April 2003. 
Tuesday, February 8, 2005 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
rebuttal as a way of fostering debate and challenging you

Politics 
to think from multiple per­continued from page I spectives." 
Political science professor monizing. Daniel Philpott is one of the 
"But by the end of the professors who utilizes this course. in the written evalua­method. tions, there were a couple of "I try to provoke the stu­students who were complain­dents, and if nobody's bring­ing about the leftist orienta­ing up a more conservative tion of the course," he said. perspective, then sometimes "And I under-I'll see it as my stand where role to play 
that was coming "! would definitely devil's advocate," 
from." agree with the said Philpott. Although "Now while all
popular position 
many political that sounds
that college
science students equally balanced feel their pro-professors, on and open and fessors often pluralistic, often
average, are very
have liberal the way you
liberal."
worldviews. frame an issue or they also gener­set up an issue ally say their Aaron Thomas can direct the professors' way a conversa­
senior
opinions did not tion goes, and hinder class that's where the participation or lessen the professor's agenda often classes' intellectual rigor. comes into play." 
"I would definitely agree In disciplines that attract as with the popular position that diverse a cross-section of the college professors, on aver­student body, such as politi­age, are very liberal," said cal science, some Notre Dame senior political science stu­students feel that professors dent Aaron Thomas. can cross· the bounds of fair­
But Thomas did not believe ness in a way that hampers that a liberal-leaning stance the intellectual quality of the made those professors dema­course. gogues or proselytizers. John Skakun, a senior polit­
"They are not so interested ical science major, took a in molding young minds to class whose subject included conform to what they believe current American politics, to be the best political ideolo­and was surprised at what he gy, but are more concerned considered to be the profes­with challenging students to sor's obvious prejudices. be critical of all convention." "I was honestly astonished Thomas said. "For example. at how poorly. if at all, he if you make a 'liberal' argu­presented 'conservative' per­ment, they will most likely spectives on various issues," give you the 'conservative' Skakun said. "He presented [conservatives] almost uni­diverse academic dialogue. versally as straw men, often "There's a kind of political pointing out their flaws, and orthodoxy on most of the then would present a more major issues," said philoso­'liberal' perspective, but phy philosophy professor interestingly, rarely pointed David Solomon. "It's one of out flaws in these perspec­the things that makes Notre tives." Dame a little more interest­

"It was a rather frustrating ing, because the orthodoxy is experience," he not quite so added. "Not so strictly enforced much because I "University is about on certain disagreed with issues."
freedom of 
him about Political sci­
expression, and
things. but ence professor because the that's for people that Daniel Lindley 
course did not call themselves praised Notre 
seem intellec­Dame as a place
conservative and
tually rigor­free from the ous." people that call partisanship Andrew themselves that can deaden Hochstedler, a academic dis­
liberal."
senior political cussions. science and "Notre Dame is German major. Alvin Tillery wonderfully not said he noticed professor politically cor­some partisan­rect in that no ship among one view or professors. other is enforced and I am 
"Generally, my teachers are free in the classroom to dis­very good about separating cuss a wide variety of views," their bias from that which Lindley said. "I love Notre they are teaching," Dame for its explicit invita­Hochstedler said. "I definitely tion to discuss moral views have had teachers who push and raise ethical dilemmas." their own [opinions] in the Sayre, on the other hand, class. but these are generally thought that the conser­easy to pick up on. especially vatism of some Notre Dame since you often go into the students kept them from class having read a couple of engaging deeply with the the articles that the professor course material. published and so you should "It's not good in the first know what their pet place for students enter col­subject/views are." lege with the specific view 
Some professors believe that they're not going to Notre Dame's relative conser­change their basic view on vatism. compared to other life," said Sayre. universities, counterbalances Political science professor the liberal tendencies of Alvin Tillery said he found an American academia, making unhelpful "us versus them" Notre Dame a home for mentality in some of his stu­dents. 
"I think this generation has got this Republican move­ment/liberal movement rheto­ric built into it that's very new," said Tillery. "University is about freedom of expression. and that's for people that call themselves conservative and people that call themselves liberal." 
Many professors are aware of students' perception of their political views. 
"A student wrote me up in a Republican mommies' group on the web. saying I'm so biased against conserva­tive students." said Tillery. "I think some students just have a personal axe tci grind, and then you've got this whole system telling them the University is a liberal place. that the University is out to corrupt you." 
Tillery recalled the purpose of the university, a melting pot of people and ideas, where students and faculty can think creatively and criti­cally together about ideas and issues that are relevant to the world they live in. 
''I'm indebted to my stu­dents who disagree with me from the left and from the right, because I've learned a lot from them, and I thought that's what university is about," said Tillery. "I think we have a culture of pugna­ciousness and vapidity that is really trickling down to the University and it really makes it hard to have robust conversations." 
Contact Michael Busk at mbusk@nd.edu 


Duerson 
continued from page I 
that was set to expire in June, University spokesman Matt Storin said Monday. 
The prosecutor's office filed two counts of battery and two counts of domestic battery, each a class A misdemeanor, against Duerson in the incident, which took place in room 236 at the Morris Inn at 1:45 a.m. Thursday, according to records on the Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) crime blotter. An accompanying blot­ter record of a theft in the same room at the same time refers to a piece of jewelry that was not accounted for when Duerson and his wife, Alicia Duerson, "both cleared out of the room," NDSP director Rex Rakow said. 
Rakow declined to comment further on the incident, and Storin said he did not know any details about the nature of the argument. 
Alicia Duerson was treated at a local hospital and released, according to the prosecutor's statement. 
The Duersons were staying on campus for the winter meeting of the Board of Trustees. Dave Duerson, who was a member of concerns. We ask that you respect our privacy, particular Alicia and our children, and ask for your agreement with us in prayer. I offer my sincere apolo­gies." 

The Observer was unable to 
the Board's Student Affairs Committee and Audit Committee, did not attend the trustees' scheduled Thursday or Friday sessions. 
Dave Duerson released a state­ment to the South Bend Tribune Monday night through Mitch Rosen, who described himself as a family spokesman. 

"Our thoughts are with everyone in the Duerson family during this difficult time." 
Patrick McCartan Board of Trustees chairman 
reach Dave or' Alicia Duerson for comment. 
Storin said that to his knowledge, Dave Duerson was not arrest­ed. and added he did not know if the former Irish ·defensive back was brought in for questioning by NDSP or other 
"As with all people, we, too, are less than perfect human beings. This is a family misun­derstanding which occurred in private and has already been resolved in private," Duerson's statement read. "It has brought us even closer together. Our attorneys are working with local officials to address their police agencies. There is no record of Dave Duerson being booked at the St. Joseph County Jail, Deputy E. Brownbridge said. 

There were witnesses to the alleged crimes who gave state­ments to law enforcement offi­cials, the prosecutor's statement said, but Storin said he did not know the identities of the wit­nesses or how many were pres­ent. 
Morris Inn director William Beirne declined to comment. 
Storin said he did not know when Dave and Alicia Duerson left Notre Dame. 
Board chairman Patrick McCartan recognized Dave Duerson's resignation Monday. 
''In view of the serious matter now confronting Dave Duerson, he has voluntarily resigned. from the University's Board of Trustees," McCartan said in a statement. "We have accepted his resignation. Without pre­judging any legal outcome, we believe this is the right decision, consistent with expectations for membership on the Board. Our thoughts are with everyone in the Duerson family during this difficult time." 
University President Father Edward Malloy also issued a statement on Dave Duerson's decision to resign. 
"It is regrettable but proper that Dave Duerson has resigned as a member of the University's Board of Trustees," Malloy said. 
"We are appreciative of his past service, but the circumstances in which he finds himself clearly make this the proper course of action. Our prayers are with Mrs. Duerson, Dave and the entire family." 
It remains to be seen whether there will be any changes to the status of Dave Duerson's other titles and awards at the University, Storin said. In 2001, Dave Duerson received the Notre Dame Alumni Association's Sorin Award, and has also served as a leading member of the athletic depart­ment's mentoring program. according to und.com, Notre Dame's official athletics Web site. 
Dave Duerson is also presi­dent, CEO and founder of Duerson Foods, LLC. and he and his wife are both on the company's Board of Directors. Duerson Foods, LCC did not return calls seeking comment Monday. 
Contact Claire Heiniger at cheining@nd.edu 

Irish Basketball Face #8 Undefeated Eagles 



Tues., Feb. 8th at 7 pm
1 

cf_~·


~ IIAma~ng High Impact Squad halftime 
show!ll 
Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promotional information 
-----~-~ ----------------------------­
"First 1000 fans will receive a 1OOth year anniversary glass 


"One lucky fan will receive a Whopper each week for a year 



TilE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

====-====----======----====;:::==::-::-----~ 
MARKET RECAP 
Engineers unveil new PC chip 
Dow 
10,002.33 -74.85 Officials from IBM, Sony, Toshiba announce details of microprocessor to Intel 
}ones .. 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: Associated Press 1,081 163 • 1,320,088,960 

..... ·, ... 
SAN FHANCISCO Setting up a battle for the
AMEX l' 273.40 ~3.56 
future of computing,NASDAQ I ,920.53 -4.64 engineers from IBM, Sony NYSf 6,556.53 -53.18 and Toshiba unveiled 
Monday of
s&PSOO I, I 13.65 -8.19 details a 
microprocessor they
NIKKEI(Tokyo) II, 195.99 0.00 
claim has the muscle ol' a FTSf IOO(London) 4,634.80 -13.1 () supercomputer and can power everything from COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE vi d ~~ o game con so Ies to 
business computers.
INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.50 +0.71 20.99 
Devices built with the 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -0.27 -0.0 I 3.74 
processor. code-named CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.57 -0.30 18.86 Cell, will compete directly with the PC chips that 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 0.00 0.00 28.03 
have powered most of the YAHOO INC (YHOO) +0.73 +0.73 34.96 world's personal comput­ers for a quarter century. Cell's designers say
30-YEAR BOND -0.18 -0.09 48.71 
their chip, built from the I0-YEAR NOTE -0.59 -0.24 40.78 sl<Lrt with the burgeoning world of rich media and
5-YEAR NOTE -1.04 :0.35 33.19 
broadband networks in 3-MONTH BILL +2.06 +0.34 16.87 mind, can deliver 10 
times the performance of
Commodities 

today's PC processors.
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.96 53.14 
It also will not carry the GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.00 414.60 same technical baggage 
that has made most of today's computers com­
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.1 0 94.30 
Exchan Rates 

patible with older PCs. 
YEN 109.7700 
That architectural diver­EURO 0.8102 gence will challenge the current dominant para­
POUND 0.5577 
digm of computing that 
CANADIAN$ 1.2564 
Microsoft Corp. and Intel Corp. have fostered. 
The new chip is expect­IN BRIEF ed to be used in Sony Corp.'s next-generation
GM to spend $98 million PlayStation game console And while its competi­enough resources. In the and Sun Microsystems
INI>IANAI'OLIS -General Motors Corp. in 2006. Toshiba Corp. tors may well match the home, that could allow Inc. already snll chipsplans to sp1md $98 million over the next three plans to incorporate it Cell chip in performance for a device that's capa­with multiple cores. y1~ars to updatn equipment at its Indianapolis into high-end televisions by the time it debuts, it ble of handling a video mainly for business Metal Center. that year as well. And differs considerably from game, television and gen­servers. 
The company announced Monday it would IBM Corp. has said it will today's processors in con­eral-purpose computer at On Monday, Intel install the new equipment for future product stitution. once. announced that it has
sell a workstation with programs at the l,700-employee plant. the chip starting later Cell is comprised of "It's very flexible," said completed the lirst prod­The equipment will include a new progres­this year. several computing Jim Kahle, an IBM senior uct runs of its dual-core sive press to stamp automotive components for Beyond that, companies engines, or cores. A core fellow. "We support many processors and said it GM vehicles and weld assembly systems to are remaining coy about based on IBM's Power operating systems with plans to deliver two sepa­unite stamped components, the company said. where it might be used architecture controls our virtualization tech­rate dual-core Pentium "By upgrading aging equipment with a new and whether it will be eight "synergistic" pro­nology so we can run chips and chipsets in the progn~ssive press and weld assembly systems, cessing centers. In all. multiple operating sys­second quarter.
compatible with older we will improve the plant's flexibility and be technology. they can simultaneously tems at the same time, Cell appears to have an abl1~ to produce higher quality components Supercomputer claims carry out 10 instruction doing different jobs on advantage in the number more elliciently," said Jim De Luca, manufac­are nothing new in the sequences, compared the system." of transistors -234 mil­
turing manager for GM North American high-tech industry, and with two for today's Intel Later this year, Intel lion compared with 125 Manufacturing. over the years chip and chips. and Advanced Micro million for today's latest The new equipment will retain jobs in the The new microproces­Devices Inc. plan to Pentium 4 chips.
computer companiesplant, which opened in 1930, manager Max have steadily improved sor also is expected to be release their own "multi­Traditional chip makers, Miller said. microprocessor perform­able to run multiple oper­core" chips, which also however. have regularly
In the last two years GM has invested $72 ance even without alter­ating systems and pro­increase the number of doubled their number of million at the plant for several weld assembly ing chips' underlying grams at the same time instructions that can be transistors every 12 to 18 cnlls and tools for product programs. Coupled architecture. while ensuring each has executnd at once. IBM months. 
with the new spending. GM has targeted almost $171 million for the Indianapolis Metal Center sincn Dec1~mber 2002. 
WellPoint reports lower profit INI>IANAI'OLIS -Wel!Point Inc. said 

C.E.O. wins praise for turnaround 
Monday its fourth-quarter profit dropped near­ly 12 pnrcent primarily due to expenses related to debt retirement and the merger that crnated rivals. ing to Gillette in 2001. When he
Associated Press 

Llw nation's largest health insurance company. "He unlocked potential in the com­·arrived at the Boston-based compa­
For the three months ending Dec. 31, profit BOSTON -It has been a fairly pany that had really been sup­ny. he had an agenda that doalt with l'nll to $184.5 million, or 92 cents a share, com­swift turnaround at Gillette Co. pressed under the previous manage­problems throughout the business _ parnd with $208.8 million, or $1.47 a share, a since James M. Kilts arrived four ment," said Rosabeth Moss Kanter, a revitalizing the Duracell battery year ago. ltevenue rose to $6.7 billion from years ago -he has transformed a llarvard Business School professor line, revamping grooming products $4.2 billion a year ago. languishing consumer products and author of a book on leadership and increasing advertising to sup­
It was the company's first earnings report maker into a business that Procter that profiles Kilts and others. port the M3Powcr, a high-tech, since the $16.5 billion merger between & Gamble Co. is willing to pay $57 But while Kilts is being lauded as vibrating men's razor that compntes Anthem Inc. and WellPoint Health Networks billion for. a corporate hero for a deal that's with Schick's Quattro razor. Inc. The quart1~r included just one month of Kilts, the first outsider recruited to giving investors an 18 percent pre­The formula worked, and Gillette's joint earnings since the Nov. 30 merger. Year­lead the century-old company best mium on Gillette stock, he's also stock has risen about 50 percent ago figures were based on Anthem's 2003 known for its shaving products, running into criticism for the com­under Kilts. The company has had rnsults. attacked Gillette's problems from pensation, estimated as high as double-digit percentage earnings 
Wall Street was not impressed. however. In within, demanding greater executive $185 million, that he's to get from gains in 12 of the past 13 quarters, latl' morning trading Monday, Wellpoint shares accountability, and also in the mar­the deal. frequently surpassing the 15 per­fell $].H2, or 3.1 p1~rcent. to $121.07 on the ketplace, pushing the company to Kilts was a longtime food industry cent to 20 percent growth Gillette New York Stock Exchange. The stock has trad­launch new products like its executive with a knack for rebuild­enjoyed in the early 1990s. before ed in a 52-week range of 72.20 to 124.95. M3Power razor to help fend off its ing troubled companies before corn-its profits dwindled. 


Tuesday, February 8, 2005

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
ND's Hatch in need of econon1tc experience 
Wake Forest has previously lead the post­industrial revival for the city ofWinston-
Associated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. ­Wake Forest's incoming president is largely untested in one area that may define his tenure at the school -as a leader of regional economic development. 
In recent years, the city of Winston-Salem and Forsyth County have both looked to Wake Forest to lead efforts to revitalize his thoughts on economic develop­ment since he was named Wake Forest's next president on Jan. 21. 
"As I keep saying, 'I have a lot to learn,' " he said. 
"I think one has to be creative, opportunistic and collaborative ­not in a way that diminishes the role of Wake Forest as a private university," he said. "The key goal of a university is not economic 
development, but it 
is an important 
the area's post­component of its
"If people want 
industrial economy. mission."
him to jump to the
But that's not After 30 years at been part of front ofthe Notre Dame, where Nathan 0. Hatch's he became deeply
parade, he's not 
job description at involved in the life
going to do that.
the University of of the university, Notre Dame, where He's a quiet, Hatch will now Hatch, 58, has been have to adapt to a
sensitive leader." 
provost-the No.2 new setting and official -since new colleagues.
Chris Murphy
1996. "Before, when A member of the 1st Source Corp. problems arose, he Notre Dame faculty chairman had dozens of peo­
since 1975, Hatch also is considered an expert in the history of religion in America. 
In succeeding outgoing Wake President Thomas K. Hearn, who steps down June 30, Hatch takes over for a man who was highly active in efforts to link the univer­sity to the local economy. 
. Hearn helped found Winston­Salem Business Inc. in the mid­1980s to recruit companies to the city, as well as Leadership Winston-Salem, which brings local leaders together to talk about community issues. 
He also has chaired the group that manages the Piedmont Triad Research Park, which area lead­ers view as essential to building a new economy in the area. 
Notre Dame has taken a less active role in economic develop­ment in South Bend. 
When asked whether the local economic-development agency in South Bend looks to Notre Dame for leadership, Project Future executive director Pat McMahon said simply, "No." 
With South Bend (population 107,789) transitioning out of the manufacturing economy and into one based on health care, educa­tion and financial services, Notre Dame plays a huge role in the local economy, McMahon said. 
And he said Hatch has been one of two people at Notre Dame who discussed with his group how to get research out of the university and into the community, particu­larly in the sciences and engineer­ing departments. 
Mark Eagan, the president of the local Chamber of Commerce, said Notre Dame has stepped up its community involvement over the last decade, taking part in efforts to revitalize housing and keep young people in the area. The school and city leaders are also involved in plans for develop­ing a technology park. 
But a local corporate leader who has worked with Hatch on a number of community projects said anyone expecting him to take a front-and-center role in local economic development could be disappointed. 
"He's not a drum beater," said Chris Murphy, chairman of 1st Source Corp. and 1st Source Bank. "If people want him to jump to the front of the parade, he's not going to do that. He's a quiet, sen­sitive leader." 
Hatch noted that many people in North Carolina have asked him ple he could go to 
for input who he trusts,'' said Richard Jensen, the chairman of the economics and econometrics department at Notre Dame. 
"He doesn't have that at Wake. He'll have to learn who to trust." 
Teresa Ghilarducci, an associate professor in the economics and policy studies department at the school, said that she saw Hatch perform best as a mediator of con­tentious situations. 
"He doesn't shy away from con­troversy. I believe he embraces it as a way for a solution to emerge," she said. 



Notre Dame grad leaves DNC race 
Tim Roemer bows out and offers the Democratic party a warning 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Tim Roemer, the only remaining opponent of Howard Dean in the race to be chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said Monday he's bowing out of the race -but he offered a warning to Democrats. 
Dean, the former presidential candidate and governor of Vermont, is expected to win the DNC chairmanship at the elec­tion Feb. 12. 
Roemer, a former congress­man from Indiana and a mem­ber of the Sept. 11 commission, said Democrats must be more inclusive in their outreach to fast-growing parts of the coun­try. 
"I got into this race five weeks ago to talk about the devastating loss we experienced in November,'' Roemer said in an interview. "It was not about 60,000 votes in Ohio. It was about losing 97 of the 100 fastest growing counties in the country. If that's a trend in busi­ness or politics you're in trou­ble." 
Republicans are in the strongest position they've been in since the early 20th century, Roemer said. 
Roemer, who said top Democrats in Congress encour­aged him to enter the chair­man's race, said he wants to strengthen Democrats' position on national security. 
"If there's one reason Senator Kerry lost the presidential race, it was because he failed to make the American people feel safer," Roemer said, adding that he also wanted to encourage talk within the party about develop­ing a stronger position on val­ues. 
Roemer said he hoped to make the party more inclusive, especially on the issue of abor­tion. He opposes abortion except in cases of rape, incest and the health of the mother. 
His opposition to abortion rights sparked early opposition in the race from abortion choice advocates. 


Witness gives suprise testitnony 
Retired stuntman says Blake complained about relationship with wife 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-A key pros­ecution witness who was expected to say that Robert Blake solicited the murder of his wife testified Monday that the actor never directly asked him to murder Bonny Lee Bakley. 
Gary McLarty, a retired stunt­man, also acknowledged he was a heavy user of cocaine and had experienced paranoid delusions that people were tun­neling under his house, that he was being chased by police and was being watched by satel­lites. 
Under prosecution question­ing, McLarty said Blake com­plained to him about his wife, showed him where she lived at his home, and pointed out a place where "someone could go up the stairs at night and pop her." 
Asked by the prosecutor if Blake led him to believe he wanted him to commit the crime, McLarty said, "It was obvious." But at another point McLarty said, "I insinuated it." 
At a preliminary hearing, McLarty had testified Blake solicited the killing of his wife. 
Defense attorney M. Gerald Schwartzbach pressed McLarty on Monday about what Blake had really said. 
"Mr. Blake never actually said he wanted you to do something to Bonny Bakley at that time?'' asked Schwartzbach. 
"Yes. that's true," McLarty said. 
Bakley, 44. was shot May 4, 2001, in Blake's car near a restaurant where the couple dined. The 71-year-old former "Baretta" TV star is charged with murder, soliciting others to commit a murder and lying in wait in the 2001 shooting death of Bakley, the woman he married after learning he had fathered her baby. 


Tuesday, I;ebruary 8, 2005 The Observer+ NEWS page 9 

Vocal 
continued from page 1 
200 I and tlw president of the Monogram Club since 2003. lie rtlsigrwd as a trustee Friday and will also nlsign his position in the Monogram Club. University spokesman Matt Storin said. 
It is unclear what lhwrson's future assoeiation with Notre Damn will hi\ Storin said. 
Duerson has bonn outspoken about Notm Danw f(JOtball in tho past y1lar. Last spring. tho Monogram Club wrote a nlsponse to a letter writtlln by a group of' Not!'ll Dame alumni that criticized tlw way the football progr•am was managnd. In the letter written by tho Monogram Club. the group rlainwd tbat the alumni letter should have never been rnleasml to the media bm:ause it hurt the University's image, impedlld the ovl'rall administration of the University and athletic dcpart­nwnt and negatively all'ected nw­entw resourcPs. 
Duerson told The Observer in April that pooplc nlleded to move on from Notro Dame's 5-7 finish in 20<n. 
"1-:very program has il'i ups and downs, but that is not indicative of tlw dirnction the program L'> head­ing" lw said in the April 23 edi­tion. "It's tinw to move on [from tho criticism]. Nobody is more upset about last year's finL'ih than those student-athletes and the coaching stall'." 
lhwrson also responded to Notrn Dame's 1956 Ileisman Trophy winner Paul Hornung's comments about Notre Dame's standards. 
"We can't stay as strict as we arn as far as the academic struc­ture is eoncerned because gutta get the blaek athlete," Hornung. who later apologized, told Detroit's AM-1270 The Sports Station. an ESPN radio alliliate in March. "We must gp,t the blaek athlete if we're going to compete." 
Duerson responded ·to llornung's commenl'i by saying he should lose his job as a radio broadea.'iter for Notre Dame foot­ball. llornung was later fired lhHn his broadcasting position. 
Duerson spokn out most rnccnt­ly al'tnr Notre Dame football coach Tyrone Willingham was fired in NovembP.r after a 6-5 season. describing a decision that was madP. with great "dissension." 
"With all the other things going on at the University, the least of' the problems was wins and loss­es," he told the Associated Press in December. 'There's greater dis­sension in some other things at tho University that need to be eor­rceted and dealt with." 
Duerson, who now resides in llighland Park. Ill., was a two-time All-American defensive back at Notre Dame, where he played from 1979-1983, and still holds the all-time record for career interception yardage. lie served as tri-captain of the 1982 Irish. lie WP.nt on to win two Super Bowls 
· in the NFL f(Jr the Chicago Bears (lY85), and the New York Gianl'i (1990). He earned four all-Pro honors in his 11 seasons with the Bears, Giants and Phoenix Cardinals. 
Duerson was also well-known in the league for his service activi­ties. IIe was named the 1987 NFL Man of the Year and 1988 NFL llumanitarian of the Year for his work with substance abuse pre­vention and Special Olympics. Duerson also sponsored free foot­ball camps in Chicago and his hometown of Muncie, Ind., teach­ing fundamentals of the game and stressing the values of education and drug and alcohol prevention. 

After football, Duerson went back tu school. graduating from the llarvard Business School's exeeutive education program in 2001. 
Duerson's aehievemP.nts then extendP.d to the business world. lie serv1~d as the majority owner, president and CEO of Fair Oaks Farms from 1995-2002, during which the company's sales increased from $24 million to $63 million. His eompany, Duerson Capital Holdings, sold its interest in Fair Oaks Farms in February 2002. Following the sale, a part­nership with Johnsonville Sausage, LLC was ereated, and the new Duerson Foods plant opened in April 2003. 
Duerson also served on the Mendoza College of Business exec­utive board and is chairman of the Dave Duerson Foundation, whieh helps students who arc pursuing entrepreneurial studies. 
Duerson's term as the president of the Monogram Club would have ended in June, when Julie Doyle was slated to take office. lie was the 1990 Monogram Club Member of the Year. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Priest convicted in sex abuse case 
A.ssoci•tcd Press 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. Defrocked priest Paul Shanley, the most notorious figure in the sex scandal that rocked the Boston Arehdiocese, was con­vietcd Monday of repeatedly raping and fondling a boy at his Homan Catholic ehurch during the 1980s. 
The conviction on all four charges gives proseeutors an important victory in their effort to bring pedophile priests to justice for decades of abuse at parishes around the eountry. 
Shanley, 7 4, could get life in prison for two counts each of child rape and indecent assault and battery on a child when he is sentenced Feb. 15. His bail was revoked and he was imme­diately led off to jail. 
The victim, now 27, put his head down and sobbed as the verdicts were announced after a trial that turned on the relia­bility of what the man claimed were recovered memories of the long-ago abuse. Shanley showed no emotion as he stood next to his lawyer. 
The jury deliberated 13 hours over three days. During the trial, the accuser broke down on the stand as he 

testified in graphic detail that Shanley pulled him out of Sunday morning cateehism classes and molested him in the bathroom, the rectory, the con­fessional and the pews starting when he was 6 and continuing for six years. 
"He told me nobody would ever believe me if I told any­body," he testified. 
The accuser said that he repressed his memories of the abuse but that they came flood­ing back three years ago, trig­gered by news coverage of the scandal that began in Boston and soon engulfed the church worldwide. 
Student Body Presidential Election 
Leaders in votes by class: Freshmen Baron (31%, 381 out of 1230 votes) Sophonu~!_~_ ~a!'~n (31%, 371 out 9.[ 119_2 Y_!?_t~ 
Juniors Baron (35%, 382 out of 1100 vott.•s) Seniors Baron (30%, 198 out of 652 votes) 
Leaders in votes by dorm: 
Alumni  Brede  
Badin  Baron  
Breen-Phillips  Baron  
Carroll  Brede  
Cavanaugh  Leito  
Dillon  Leito  
Farley  Leito  
Fisher  Brede  
Howard  Baron  
Keenan  Leito  
Keough  Leito  
Knott  Whitt.'  
Lewis  Baron  
Lyons  Baron  

' : I.
. ' 
Runoff 
continued from page 1 
Executive Committee of the Election Committee of the Judicial Council to hold a hearing to assess the violation and whether sanctions should be levied before the results could be officially announced. 
Anderson explained that a message supporting the Baron-Shappell ticket was sent to the Alliance-ND/GSA [Gay-Straight Alliance] ListServ by AllianeeND presi­dent Mac Russell at 11:54 
p.m. Sunday. Though e-mails alone are permissible forms of campaigning, Article 17, Section 1 of the student union constitution details that ListServ messages are not. The constitution later speci­fies that candidates may be held responsible for the con­duct of their supporters. 
Though the Election Committee, made up of dele­gates for each of the 27 dorms, found merit to the allegation, and the six-mem­ber Executive Committee ruled that the ticket was guilty of the violation, no sanctions were assessed. 
"[The Executive Committee) decided no sanetion was appropriate because it is diffi­cult for candidates to control people that they didn't know 
McGlinn Morrissey O'Neill Off-Campus Pangborn Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla West Siegfried Sorin Stanford St. Edward's Walsh Wel~h Family Zahm Baron Baron Leito Baron Leito Baron Baron Leito White Leito Ldto Baron Baron Healy 
MIKE HARKINS!ObseNer GraphiC 

were sending out e-mails on 
their behalf." Anderson said. 
Shappell confirmed that nP-i­
ther she nor Baron were 
involved in the ListServ mes­
sage, and said that Baron 
does not know Hussell, and 
that she only knows him 
"casually" and spoke to him 
only once about the election. 
during a campaigning dorm 
visit. 
"Neither Dave nor I were 
aware that the e-mail had 
be e n s e n t u n t i l we we n~ 
informed of the infraction," 
she said. 
Anderson said she sent a 
message to the Office of 
Information Teehnology to be 
forwarded to all ListServ own­
ers, letting them know that 
they cannot use the ListServ 
as an avenue for campaign­
ing. 
Baron-Shappell secured the plmality of votes by winning 11 dorms and the off-campus votes -including their respective home turfs of Morrissey and Badin. Leito­Bongiovanni won 10 dorms, including the loyalty of their own dorms, Siegfried and Cavanaugh. The Craig Brede­Vijay Ramanan. Alec White­Erik Powers and Mark Ilealy­Bob Costa tickets shared the remainder of the dorm victo­ries. 
Both advancing tickets said that while they're relieved by Monday's results, they expect a tough three days ahead, as the four candidates who have worked closely together in student government clash. 
"The results are great, but we're ready to go again. We've got three more days. and less than 300 votes isn't a margin of confidence," Baron said. 
Leito -vice president on Charlie Ebersol's tieket that made it to the runoff' in last year's election-agreed. 
"It's always exciting to make it past the general election, but this is going to be a tough one," he said. 
They all said they plan to stick to their \ried and true campaign strategies, focusing mainly on the grassroots effort to build support, nspe­cially sinee none of the losing tickets chose to givP. nitlwr of the tickets their endorse­ments. 
Candidates pointed toward their common experience and passion as kindling for what they expect to be a lwated sprint to the finish. 
"Voters are going to get a great show." Bongiovanni said with a smile. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at arnichael@nd.edu 

THE 0HSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, February 8, 2005 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTitATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulcer CONTROlLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631c6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 

ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOIMT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 63!-4543 sporcs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 

SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. · 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questiom regarding Oburverpolicies should b~ directed to Editor in Chief Matt Louzr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oh:.erver (USPS 599 2-4000} is publi.Ulcd Motu.lo~.y thmugh I:rido~.y ~~pt during exam and vacaci(Jil periods. A'ub$criprion t<> The Observer ii $1 OU fm one .acadctnk year; 155 for ouc-K"mdtcr. 
The Ob~erver i.i publi,hed at: I'OSTMASTER 1124 Sourh Dining H<tll Send o~.ddn.')$ Ultrt:cti6n~ to: Notre D.tmt:, IN 46556-0779 The0hrtt"rvc:r 
l'criodu:~ poHage p.aid at Nom: Dame 1~0. Bolt 779 o~.nd ~dirional. ma~ling officr,. 024 South Dining HJIJ 
Notno Dame, IN 46556..077'1 
The Ubscrvt:r iii • mcmkr of the Asu>~.:au-J 1'~. All r~"Produuiun righn. ate n:lot"rl'ed. 
Diversity should unite America 
I was doing my laundry at the laun­dromat last week because I like bigger washers and dryers than most places have. Also, I happen to be a big fan of throwing all of my laundry into gigan­tic washing machines arid getting my ridiculous amounts of laundry done in Tom Rippinger record time. The laundromat being Confessions of the multicultural and a Campus diverse income back­Conservative ground environment it is, I began to think about multicul­turalism and the recent efforts at Notre Dame to push it. 
Since I was dumb enough to forget to bring something to read while my laundry was being washed. I began to think about the roots of multicultural­ism. Although many may consider me a heartless conservative, I do take into account 500 years of western world dominance. Of course, the icing on the colonialism cake came in the past cen­tury with apartheid, the holocaust, segregation and a spattering of proxy wars fought in the third world in which the United States and the Soviet Union used these nations as pawns in a game of bilateral global dominance. 
For the past few hundred years, the world outside of the west has had some pretty raw deals in the games of international power struggles. Now, the formerly oppressed have the advantage of using the ideas of liberty originating from enlightenment thinkers to their advantage. In today's reality, the world's largest democracy is India and every nation is connected through a complex global economy. 
In the backdrop of these world events, there is of course a special guilt placed on the United States. We were supposed to live up to a higher standard, but it was not until the past century that we really sought to become a colorblind society. All of this I realize and personally lament, but it must be taken with a grain of salt. 
I was thinking of this and many other things when I was trying to get to the roots of the multiculturalist movement and its politically correct supporters. As far as I can logically reason, l believe they feel the same guilt for the aforementioned history. Out of their guilt comes the modern multiculturalist agenda. Perhaps they felt guilt over the more quiet racism of the north. which was almost as effec­tive but less messy than its southern counterpart. The guilt brings out the culture of over the top political cor­rectness we saw in the '90s. It also made it en vogue for a university to have an equal spattering ol' every race in its brochures. 
What happened to the colorblind constitution of Brown v. Board of Education? Why would an equal spat­tering of races and sexual preferences make Notre Dame any better if you truly believe that skin color and sexual preference are irrelevant? The multi­culturalist game seems to be very inclusive with the exception of white kids. Our culture is already fairly well known and it just doesn't look good in university public relations campaigns. We're too culturally homogeneous to create a true university environment and everyone knows we are "born with silver spoons in our mouths" anyway. 
Let's pretend I represent a university or a large institution. "Hmm, Tom, it seems like you could stand to see a lit­tle bit more diversity," a multicultural­ist would bemoan. Let's say he equally distributes all of my friends with peo­ple of every race with different cul­tures and skin colors. Does that make me a better person? Would it not depend on totally the content of the characters of the people I would hang out with, regardless of their skin color? 
Getting back to the laundromat, I can compare the dynamics of a laun­dromat to the United States. People of all different races go to the !au nd ro­mat to try and accomplish a similar objective of washing laundry. In the United States, this objective would be acquiring the American dream of a house in the suburbs, an SUV and the average two kids. The situation is com­pletely random and race does not even rmter the equation, but everyonE' has a similar goal. I didn't care that the guy next to me was black and there was a Ilispanic family doing laundry as well. We all just wanted to get our clothes washed. 
I bt~lieve that if WP focus on what wP have in common instl~ad of ttws<' cheesy diversity weeks. we can mak<' far greater steps toward a colorblind society. We're all people with similar feelings and desires. As long as the truth that "all men are created equal" is accepted, there should be reason for nothing but optimism. Simply following the "golden rule" consistently is enough to end racism in itself. That's why I advocate a death of the self­loathing fake multiculturalism that pervades universities around the coun­try and a rebirth of practicing simple virtues in everyday interaction. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. He is the co-president of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at trippin@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of the Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL,
News Sports Kate Antonacci Justin Schuver Megan O'Neil Chris Khorey Do you feel your professors' Jen Rowling Thomas Dorwart 
political beliefs affect how they 
Karen Langley Scene Mary Kate Ram a conduct themselves in the classroom? Malone Gottumkkala Viewpoint Illustrator 
Katherine Rowley Katie Knorr Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at Graphics 

www.ndsmcobserver. com 
Desiree Zamora 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The language oftruth is unadorned and always simple." 
Marcellinus Ammianus Roman historian 



THE 0HSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 8, 2005 page II 


----~======================================================================== 
U-WIRE 
Mediocrity rampant at Super Bowl 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Abstain from storming the court 
Today, llw Notre Dame men's basketball team has a very important ganw against Boston College (or "Backup College" as Justin Tuck prdnrs). Wlwn. and I do mean when. our embattled band of Irishmen dd'l!at number live. undefeated and overrated Boston College, I strongly urge my fellow students and fans to not sturm to the court in ePlebration. 
Normally, a victory at home over a top l 0 team warrants a court storming. llowever, in the case of Boston College. normal conventions must b1! set aside. As Notre Dame Students we must be deliant and not storm the court as a display of our common despise for that institu­tion. 
l.nt us not forget that this is the same school that greedily and hypo­critically stabbed Notro Dame and the rest of the Big East in the back when it fled to the ACC not long ago. They left the conference scram­bling just days after denouncing similar moves made by Miami and Virginia Tech. 
This is also the same sehoul that claims to be our rival in football based solnly on four consecutive last second wins over two of our pro­gram's worst head coaches. Let us also not forget the disrespect their football players have shown to Notre Dame by ripping large clumps of grass out of our hallowed stadium in celebration. 
This is the same school that also claims to be our academic counter­part in the world of higher education for reasons that I cannot com­prehend. 
The point is that Boston College wants desperately to be Notre flame, to he our rival and be our peer both academically and athleti­cally. The truth is that they aren't even close. I therefore urge all stu­dents to defiantly abstain from storming the court following the Irish victory. Such an action only legitimizes their claim to be our rival. Backup College dnsnrvi!S an "overrated" chant coupled with a few "We are NDs." I'd rather save the storming for Oct. 15. 
Bill Coffey 
sentor 
off-campus 
Feb. 7 
Do not support Coke 
Hecently students have been debating the merits and faults of the new Coca-Cola dorm competition and some very good questions have been asked. But we would like to bring to light another side of this debate that has as of yet not been dis­cussed: Coca Cola's human rights abuses. 
First and foremost. let us recall that as membnrs of the Notre Dame community each of us is a beneficiary of the Coca-Cola Corporation. either through general dona­tions to the University or by way of individ­ual scholarships and grants. As beneficiar­ies we are all called to understand the nature of our benefactor and to investigate the means by which it procures the resources that are ultimately used to build our dorms and fund our research. 
We would like to outline the facts about just a few of the abuses committed by the Coca-Cola Corporation. In sp doing we ask: do we deserve to enjoy the comforts of Coca-Cola's relationship with our University at the expense of the lives and livelihoods of others? More specifically, can we con­done such a situation and even go so far as to participate in it? 
Some of the worse abuses have been committed in Colombian bottling plants·, resulting in the death of at least 13 work­ers. A lawsuit filed against Coca-Cola charges that it "contracted with or other­wise directed paramilitary security forces that utilized extreme violence and mur­dered, tortured and unlawfully detained or otherwise silenced trade union leaders." Guatemalan workers have suffered in simi­lar ways. 
Coca-Cola benefits from child labor that takes place under hazardous conditions. In El Salvador for instance. thousands of chil­dren. some as young as eight years old. are working on sugarcane plantations where they often suffer from severe machete wounds. smoke inhalation and burns. 
Coke's bottling practices in India have caused water shortages and groundwater pollution. Entire communities have been exposed to toxic levels of waste and pesti­cides. In addition. Coke's bottling plants draw so much water from the wells and groundwater sources that the local water supplies are depleted to the extnnt that thousands of farmers are left with an inad­equate supply for their own agricultural uses. These practices have not only poi­soned the inhabitants of thesn regions. but also deprived thousands of local farmers of their livelihoods. Similar abuses have taken place in Mexico and Ghana. 
We choose not to participate in the Coca­Cola dorm competition because we believe it is more important to ensure that all pno­ple have the right to healthy, dignified lives than it is to secure profits and share their comforts with a select few. As consumers we understand that "money" can mean "approval." We have decided to withhold our approval and we invite you to join with us in abstaining from this competition. Stand in solidarity with workers and com­munities around the world who are no less deserving of Coca-Cola's beneficence than we arc. 
More information about Coke's human rights abuses and how to take further action can be found at www.cokewatch.org and www.killercuke.org. 
Jake Weiler, Joe DiGrazia, Melody Gonzalez 
sen1ors 
Jessica Collado 
junior 
Joe Murphy 
freshman 
Feb. 6 
For $80,000 a second, they could at least make it good. But the only 2005 Super Bowl ads worth watching are the ones that didn't run. 
Snvnral of the spots, which FOX sold for a record $2.4 mil­lion per 30 seconds, Rob Howard never made it on the air -some were too 
Syracuse
negative, others too 
University
risque. So with all 
Daily Orange 
tlw good stuff swept 
under the rug, most of this year's ads wnre car commer­cials. rnovin previews and self-paro­
dies. 
FOX blocked a campaign that would have fueled the beer war between Miller and Anheuser-Busch. asserting that Miller's anti-Bud ads were too negative to show during the game. Anheuser-Busch is the Super Bowl's exclusive beer sponsor and the biggest advertising customer with five min­utes of airtime. 
Those five minutes were mostly mediocre Bud Light ads, one of which filled the first post-kickoff spot. As if to say, "lley, dude, we're extreme," that ad featured a reluctant skydiver who took the plunge after his pilot dove out of the plane in pursuit of a dropped Bud Light bottle. (It is physi­cally impossible for him to catch up to that bottle, unless Spider-Man is somehow involved.) 
Miller, a distant second to Anheuser­Busch in the domestic beer market, still ran a few spots during the pre­game show and tried to purchase local airtime, but the brewery was effec­tively locked out of advertising to the nation's largest audience. 


So, new Super Bowl rule No. 1: no competing with our sponsors. Next on the list: no fun of any kind. 
Anheuser-Busch pulled one of its ads because it harkened back to Janet Jackson's nipple-bar­ing extravaganza, the root of all this self-censorship. The spot, which would have been far and away the fun­niest of the game, showed a frustrated Jackson throwing down her outfit a few minutes before half­time. Then a backstage employee grabbed a frosty Bud Light and tore the bosom of her costume to open the bottle. Let's just say he didn't have much time to fix the damage. 
Too soon, Bud Light. Too soon. 

In a more reasonable move, Ford pulled an ad about a priest's lust for the new Lincoln Mark l:r. The priest found a key to the new SUV in 
the collection box and ogled it in the parking lot for a few awkward moments before its owner and his small daughter showed up to claim the vehicle. The 
scene cuts to the priest adding the letters L and T to the new 
message on the marquee board: "LUST." Not real­ly funny, but def­initely weird. 
The worst repercussion of the priest's 
banishment was that Ford filled the gaps with its awful Mustang spot. In the ad, a police car pulls up 
behind a red convertible waiting at a 
green light in a barren tundra. For some reason 
the cop sees nothing weird about this, so he 

waits behind the ear and honks his horn before finally investigat­ing. He finds the driver frozen solid with a look of euphoria preserved on his icy face. The message: we're not even putting 
this car on the market until spring, 
because our consumers are so dumb 
they'd drive it around the Artie Circle. 
The funny ads that made it on the air were all parodies of themselves. In other words, Super Bowl ads suck so much that the only creativity comes when they remind you of their sucki­ness. 
Fedex Kinko's hilariously demon­strates the top 10 necessities for a good Super Bowl ad. Among them: Groin kicks. Burt Heynolds and several instances of talking, dancing bears. And the ad fur a domain registrar called GoDaddy.com takes place at a Federal Communications Commission hearing, where a busty coed pleads for permission to be on TV. 
The most ridiculous self-parody came from Budweiser-in a throw­back to last year's donkey-becomes-a­Ciydesdale ad, Bud introduces several other animals (from giraffe to pig) with the same goal. But it makes no sense if you don't have last year's ad at the front of your mind, and even then it's barely funny. 
So mark 2005 down as the beginning of the end for Super Bowl advertising. Almost everyone who bought a spot wasted their money, and the rampant censorship was more embarrassing than the banned ads could ever be. 
This column originally appeared in the Feb. 7 edition of Daily Orange, the daily publication at Syracuse University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, February 8, 2005 
DVD REVIEWS 
'Best of Fallon' collects comedian's finest moments 
By KELLY DUOOS Scene Critic 
Jimmy Fallon built up quite a fan base on Saturday Night Live because of his ability to consistently deliver fresh faced performances week after week. Breaking into the late night scene in 1998, this featured player achieved cast member status and contributed to the show until his departure in 2004. His inability to keep a straight face has helped him charm viewers with his infectious smile and lovable personali­ty. 
Rarely a SNL scene-stealer, Fallon often times is not the shining star of his sketches. Instead, he graciously pro­vides a solid comedic foundation to glo­rify a hostlng celebrity or an off-the­wall cast member. The sketches on this DVD are evenly split between Jimmy's supporting and starring roles. This col­lection highlights his comedic ability where it might otherwise have been overshadowed. 
While on Saturday Night Live, Fallon had the chance to develop some origi­nal characters that have stood the test of time. The best are showcased in this collection and include: Jarret. a third­time college junior who hosts a web cast show from his dorm room; Sully, a teenage Red Sox fan who has the ten­dency to become extremely angry; and the Leatherman, who creepily dresses head to toe in leather. 

From his performances, it is evident that Fallon grew up idolizing the play­ers of Saturday Night Live, since his impersonation skills are quite impres­sive. The DVD's opening clip is the unforgettable 'sketch that takes place in Mick Jagger's dressing room, in which Fallon plays a feisty reflection of the real Rolling Stone. Though Darrell Hammond's Sean Connery steals the spotlight in the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch, Fallon's dead-on impression of former SNL player Adam Sandler deserves recognition. His knack for creating these truly remarkable carica­tures is appreciated in a montage of various clips of celebrity impressions. 
However, Fallon's most hilarious moments have arguably come while he has played his most natural character: 
himself. Combining for­ces with SNL writer Tina Fey proved a success, and the two took Weekend Update by storm in the fall of 2000. "SNL's Best of Jimmy Fallon" contains clips of the two executing their biting commentary on current events. To end the featured program, the co-anchors perform a heartfelt duet before Fallon narrates a Star Wars type story of hope and tragedy that will leave the viewer in stitches. 

Since this is a DVD, bonus features have of course been obligatorily includ­ed. Fallon's audition tape for his spot on Saturday Night Live is priceless. He shows off his impersonation skills dur­ing a celebrity walk-a-thon and spoofs popular music with the help of his gui­tar. However, the other bonus features fail to live up to SNL potential. The Weekend Update camera test with Fey is pretty lifeless and the inclusion of the "Drinkin' in the Woods" dress rehearsal sketch makes it obvious why it was cut from the live episode. The mediocre music video for the single "Idiot Boyfriend" and Fallon's perform­ance on the Carson Daly show round out the bonus features. Let this be a lesson: sometimes less is more. 
However disappointing a few of the extras might be, the new "Best of Jimmy Fallon" is a must-have for DVD collectors and casual fans of the pro­gram alike. It shows how his six years spent with Saturday Night Live have earned him stardom. 
Contact Kelly Duoos at kduoos@nd.edu 
Visual splendor lifts 'Sky Captain' above its genre 
broadcasts of that age will find some­thing familiar and nostalgic about the movie. 
There is a downside to the nature of the movie however. This is not a typical action film and expecting it to be filled with the cliched ·look of an action film would be a disservice. Calling the movie cheesy, and the plot contrived would be valid criticisms, but would also be a dis­service to the point of the movie. For many films of the film, those would be part of the reasons why it works so well as a tribute to old radio programs. 
The actors do a commendable job, considering their unique situation. All of their actions are performed in front of a blue screen, so they have to react to things that do not exist. Jude Law does a great job in his role of the Sky Captain, acting serious on call and hamming it up when necessary as well. Gwyneth Paltrow gives a commendable perform­ance as the reporter covering the Sky Captain's exploits. Both act convincingly in front of the blue screen and meld into th.e .computer generated backgrounds well. 
The rest of the cast perform admirably 
against the blue screen as well. Indeed, it's often quite difficult to separate the computer­generated extras from the flesh-and-blood ones. If any one movie will be remembered for blending what is real and fake, this is it. 
A significant amount of time went into creating this movie, and it shows in the special features on the DVD. There are com-
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Critic 
It's not every day that a movie is jaw­droppingly beautiful. "Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow" is one of the rare movies where every scene looks like a work of art. Which in a way, they were. 
The first thing that should be known about the film is that every scene was filmed in front of a blue screen. That means that every background was creat­ed on a computer, digitally worked upon so that every pixel is perfect. This in turn creates some truly spectacular images never before seen on film. The visuals can even be described as breath­taking, a trait that not many movies can claim. 
The movie is based on the radio broad­casts and stories of the early 1900s. That means that a new amazing image is pre­sented every couple of minutes. Giant robots, flying fortresses and genetically created monsters grace the silver screen in all their computer-generated glory. Anyone with even the slightest bit of knowledge of the cartoons, comics and with each progressive sce.ne. Do not make the mistake that millions did by not seeing this movie. It is unfortunate the movie bombed in the box office, as it would have been great to see more of the Sky Captain's exploits. This movie is a unique gem, unlikely to be imitated anytime soon. 


Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

mentaries, making-of documentaries and behind-the-scenes features. They show different aspects of how the movie was created, and all the time that was put into creating the amazing scenarios within the movie. The extras are very interesting and fun to watch, especially from a purely technical standpoint. 
"Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow" is a visually astounding movie, one that never fails to impress 

THE OBSERVER_ 



CENE
Tuesday, February 8, 2005 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Pow-erful perfortnances drive 'Million Dollar' success 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Critic 
Who would 'vn thought that the great­Pst ~~ra of' Clint Eastwood's career would comP this latn? A nno-rnnaissance that hogan with "Unforgiven" continued with "Midnight in tlw Garden of Good and Evil" and "Mystic Bivnr." IIis latest liiJn, "Million Dollar Baby," is one of' the best liiJns or 2004 and another winner in the sanw vnin of nxecll1~nce as Eastwood's prnvious work. 
Eastwood has aged with remarkable graen, and "Million Dollar Baby" is a bnautil'ul, unpretentious. difficult l'ilm that sonwhow manages to remain in an undnrstatnd minor kny despite its sub­jPct mattfH·.' The plot revolves around Maggio Fitzgnrald 
"Raging Bull" than "Hocky," it is handled with technical finesse that creates a sur­prising amount of tension -unlike most sports movies, the boxing itself is clearly not the main drive. Instead, the !lim is concerned with its characters and the underlying themes of the plot. Boxing here is not the focus of the plot, but a device used to explore the plot and nuances of the characters. 
Though his talents are manifold and well employed here, Eastwood's greatest skill as a director is his ability to evoke powerful performances; "Million Dollar Baby" more than upholds this tradition. Swank's portrayal of Maggie is pitch­perfect: tough, strong-headed and yet utterly believable. Expect her to walk away with the Oscar come Feb. 27. 
Likewise, Freeman's one-eyed gym 
assistant Eddie is 
(llilary Swank). a more than merely
Million Dollar Baby
:J 1-ynar old neo­the narrator/side­phytn boxnr who 
kick. he is a snnks tlw training three-dimensional of infamous "cut character with his man Frankie own convincingDirector: Clint Eastwood 
Dunn (Eastwood). subplot. Yet it is
Writers: Paul Haggis and F.X. Toole
Although Dunn is Eastwood himself
Starring: Clint Eastwood, Hilary Swank_ 
initially reluctant who carries the
Morgan Freeman and Jay Baruchel 
to teach Fitzgerald film's heart and 
hncause she is an older woman, he eventually agrees and the two begin working toward the wel­tnrweight championship. 
In ways, the film seems a contradic­tion: it initially appears to be one of the most simplistic major movies made by llollywood last year, but it eventually rPveals itself to be one of the most com­plnx. "Million Dollar Baby" is far more than a simple story. It is well told and it rnveals itself in the fight scenes. More 
soul. His portray­al of Frankie is perhaps the most inter­nalized of the actor's storied career, and while the film doesn't resolve or spell out Frankie's past, inferences can be made from Eastwood's performance to com­prehend him as a character. In a time when Hollywood seems to be spiraling out of control in its attempts at overblown epics peppered with vacuous special effects, the film's minimalism and character-driven pl_ot is a welcome thange. By the end of'the lilm, the audi­ence cares very much for all of its char­acters. The film paints a stark and inti­mate portrait that examines not just one, but several unforgettable individuals. 

If asked to describe "Million Dollar Baby" in one word, a typical answer might be "dark." And this would not be an unreasonable response; the film is very dark, both literally (through its excellent cinematography) and figura­tively (through its thematic elements). 
A better word to describe Eastwood's latest film, however, is "true." This story is true to itself, true to its plot, true to its characters. Even the controversial end­ing is true in a way that few Hollywood lilms would dare to bn. Whether one dis­agrees with how it ends, in this situation with these characters, it's the only logi­cal conclusion and Eastwood handles it un!linchingly. 
It doesn't quite reach the heights of "Unforgiven," but it also doesn't aspire to do so. With that film. Eastwood seemed to have something to prove, with "Million Dollar Baby" it is obvious that he made the film he wanted to make. As a result, it ends up being his most inti­mate to date and an instant classic in line with his previous achievements. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 



Unoriginality grounds disappointing date film 
offers no surprises here. While the By BECCA SAUNDERS story is creative in and of itself and 
Assist~mt S<.:enc Editor 
although at times it seems a bit of a spoO'f of "Pretty Woman," it is a gener­All of thn ingredients for success arc ally interesting precept. The biggest present -thn awkward girl, the suave problem with the movie is the script. It guy. a wedding and a crazy set of' par­seems that the screenwriter took what nnts. Ynt so.mehow, "The Wedding n:rty have been an interesting novel Date" still manages to fall short of a anu created a script that does not give bncoming a mnmorable film. the audience enough information to 
Tlw romantic comedy starring Debra really believe in the budding romance Mnssing and Dnrmot Mulroney is disap­between Kat and Nick. pointing not only in dialogue and act­Overall the acting is not much more ing, but also falls noticeably short in than mediocre. Messing, in what is still tlw smallnr arnas of costume, make-up one of her first feature films, is not and cinenHLtography. captivating enough to command the 
Thn story is cute, a trademark of the screen. Mulroney is the single redeem­typical romantic ing aspect of the ­conwdy. Messing film with acting
The Wedding Date 
plays the main that is consistent r.harar.tnr. Kat. 
with his charac­who is a singln ter and that is N~~ w Yo r k n r e n performed well routn to her sis­enough to capti-.Director: Clare Kilner 
ter's wt~dding in vatc the attention 
Writer: Dana Fox
London wllf•rf~ her of the big screen.
Starring: Debra Messing, Dermot 
fl X -f'i a 11 C(~ W i [[ b e The supporting
Mulroney, Amy Adams and Peter Egan 
tlw bnst man. This actors are largely information is all unmcmorablc, as rnv!~<tl!~d very non-discretely in the first is the lilm itself. linPs of the l'ilm exchanged between . Beyond the acting, the film itself is they have been running outside in the their feelings for one another believ­Kat and a messenger who never simply not well put together. The cos­rain. Kat is soaked and Nick has only a able. The dialogue is poorly written appnars in the film again; this is just tumes arc outdated and repetitive and couple drops of water on his tuxedo. and delivered. Beyond a few cute 
orw nxa m p le of the disappointingly the make-up on a number of the female While this may seem like small points moments in the film, the main relation­simplr~ script writing in the film. Kat, actresses is noticeably bad. These are to pick at, they are all very noticeable ship between Kat and Nick is entirely not wanting to appear at the wedding both small details in film making that and distracting. These small signs unbelievable. alorw, opts to hire a male escort, Nick generally go unnoticed. However, they point to a lack of quality for the overall "The Wedding Date" tries to win over (Mulroney). are done so poorly in "The Wedding film. the heart of the audience, but in the 
B1dng a romantic comedy, at this Date" that it is distracting. 'The Wedding Date" is an interesting. end it fails at this task as well. point it is quite obvious that the two Furthermore, there are numerous concept but there is simply not enough l!~ads are going to end up falling for other small mistakes such as a scene time dedicated to the development of Contact Becca Saunders at one another. "The Wedding Date" outside between Nick and Kat after the characters' relationship to make rsaunder@nd.edu 

page 14 Tuesday, February 8, 2005 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 



Late Delk free throws bury Lakers in Atlanta 

Antawn Jamison added 20 in the quarter, allowing Golden Willie Green, who also missed a within two games of second­
Arenas scores 43 in 
points for the Wizards, combin­State to cut the margin to one at last-second shot at the buzzer in place Philadelphia in the Wizards win; Miami ing with Arenas for all 19 of 86-85. regulation. Atlantic Division. 
Washington's points in the final In the next 3 minutes O'Neal Green hit a jumper early in Kenny Thomas added 21 outscores Warriors 8 minutes. had three baskets, two the overtime to give points for the 76ers. and Kyle Arenas, 15-of-28 from the rebounds and a block, helping Philadelphia a 95-93 lead, but Korver had 11 points, including field, missed a shot in the lane Miami surge ahead 96-88. Carter, who had only three three 3-pointers in the third Associated Press with the Wizards up 106-104, Two free throws by Wade points in the third quarter, quarter when Philadelphia ral­giving the Pacers a chance to tie gave the Heat their biggest lead, matched the Nets' franchise lied from a seven-point halftime 
ATLANTA -Antoine Walker or win with less than 9 seconds 101-90. He added two more for record with his seventh 3-point­deficit to take a seven point lead made two baskets in the last 2 to play. But Indiana's Fred a 103-96 cushion with 32 sec­er to give the Nets a 96-95 lead entering the final quarter. minutes, and Ton Delk hit eight Jones lost control of the ball, onds to go. with 3:48 to play. However, the Sixers scored free throws in the final minute and Juan Dixon made two free Mike Dunleavy scored 26 Mercer added a jumper with just two baskets in the final to help the Atlanta Hawks hold throws with 3.6 seconds to seal points, and Derek Fisher 22 for 3:08 to go and Kidd drive for a 10:44 of regulation and over­off the Los Angeles Lakers 114-the Wizards' second straight the Warriors, who lost for the layup with 2:35 to play and New time in losing for the second 108 Monday night. win. 17th time in their past 19 Jersey pulled away to move time in six games. 
The Lakers, down by 29 The Wizards trailed by eight games. They've dropped 10 in a points in the second quarter, cut with 9:57 to play, but Arenas row on the road. the Ha.wks' lead to a point scored nine points during a 17-O'Neal went only 1-for-7 at before Walker and Delk took 6 run to spark Washington's the free-throw line but had six control in the final minutes. rally. Jamison put Washington assists and 14 rebounds. The Walker led the Hawks with 26 ahead to stay at 102-100 with a Heat shot 51 percent and had a points, and Delk added 25. sweeping hook in the lane with 53-33 edge on the boards, but 
Walker hit two baskets in the 1:27 left. they committed 17 turnovers to final 2:14, including a shot after Jermaine O'Neal scored 30 seven for Golden State. the Lakers pulled to within a points for the Pacers, and Miami's Eddie Jones went 9­point at 98-97. and Delk came Stephen Jackson had 29 -22 for-12 from the field and scored through at the line to help the in the second half when he shot 22 points. Teammate Udonis Hawks snap a three-game los­8-for-11 from the floor and Haslem had 12 rebounds and ing streak. made five 3-pointers. nine points. 
After Chucky Atkins' 3-pointer Arenas, who also finished The Heat trailed for much of pulled the Lakers within a point with nine rebounds and six the first half and led only 51-50 with 3:18 left, Walker scored for assists, scored 22 points on 8-at halftime despite shooting 55 the Hawks and then set up Boris for-15 shooting to put percent. Diaw for a layup and a 102-97 Washington ahead 56-53 at After the Warriors took their lead with 1:42 left. Walker halftime. final lead at 59-58, Miami added a jumper over Lamar Indiana overtook Washington scored on five consecutive pos­Odom with 47 seconds left. during midway through the sessions. O'Neal sank back-to­
Josh Childress added 19 third quarter on a layup by Jeff hack baskets, and Wade scored points for the Hawks, and Donta Foster and pushed the lead as five points in a row to put the Smith had 11-both career high as eight in the fourth quar­Heat ahead 69-61. highs for the rookies. ter before Arenas and Jamison New Jersey 107, 
Odom led Los Angeles with 28 took control. Philadelphia 97 points, Tierre Brown set a Foster added 14 points and 11 Vince Carter scored a season­career high with 27, and Atkins rebounds for the Pacers, who high 43 points to become the had 25. The Lakers have lost six had won two straight following 41st NBA player to reach of their last eight games. a six-game losing streak. 10,000 points, and Jason Kidd 
Kobe Bryant, sidelined since Dixon had 11 points off the had his 62nd triple-double in Jan. 13 by a severely sprained bench for Washington. the New Jersey Nets overtime right ankle, watched from Miaml105, Golden State 96 victory over Philadelphia on behind the Lakers' bench. Shaquille O'Neal scored 27 Monday night. Bryant could return on the road points and the Miami Heat over­Kidd finished with 22 points, a trip, which continues with came a rare ragged perform­season-high 16 assists and 11 games at New Jersey, Detroit ance.by Dwyane Wade to beat rebounds in leading the Nets to and Cleveland. Golden State. their season-high fifth straight 
The Hawks scored the first 14 Wade failed to score in the win at home and their eighth in points of the game and led 31-first 18 minutes. 11 games. ­15 after one quarter. They He missed several layups and Ron Mercer added 14 points, scored the first 10 points of the one dunk, committed eight all in the fourth quarter and the second period. turnovers, drew a technical overtime. 
The largest deficit the Lakers foul, shot 5-for-18 and finished The win against a 76ers' team have overcome to win a game with 18 points, 5.6 below his that was without an ailing Allen this season was 12 points average. Iverson came a lot harder than against Orlando on Dec. 12. Still, the Heat won for the expected, especially after Carter Washington 108, Indiana 104 sixth time in seven games. They made things look so easy scor­
Gilbert Arenas matched his improved to 14-2 at home since ing 27 point-half points. career high with 43 points to Nov. 30. New Jersey overcame an help the Washington Wizards The Heat took an 81-72 lead eight-point deficit with 5:46 to beat the Indiana Pacers Monday into the fourth quarter but play, and survived a 28-point night. missed 10 of their first 12 shots effort by Iverson's replacement, 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
- 
Professional Mom needs help pick- 8-bdrm house close to ND.Great  2 bdrm condo on the lake wlloft. 1­ 
LOST & FOUND  ing up children from two area Catholic schools and taking them to  FoR SALE  area.2773097  car garage,close to ND. $850/mo. Call  PERSONAL  
a few atterschool activities between  Great homes ideal for 3-6 stu­ 574-329-0838. Avail.now.  
3:00-6:00 p.m. Monday-Friday.  dents.Ciose to ND.Nice  5 Days $299!  
Great kids-daughters ages 11 and  One bedroom condo near UND.  area.2773097  Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties!  
LOST: !pod white with black case  14; Great Payl Schools and home  Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim  Spotless Apartments Apartment  Panama City, Daytona $159!  
15GB at Saint Marys January 29.  close to ND and SMC. If trans- Kollar  5 bdrm on ND Ave available 05-06.  Cleaning SPECIAL RATES FOR  Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco,  
Has my only copies of my semester  porta lion is needed, car ran be pro­ 1000/mo. email  STUDENTS. Emergency  Nassau $499!  
in Australia pictures. REWARD.  videp. Call Karen Stonehill 272­ ndhouses@ yahoo.com  Weekend Cleaning Available. Call  Award Winning Company!  
Please return to ND or SMC  5013  or Email for FREE Estimate  SpringBreakTravel.com  
security.  FoR RENT  Spollessapartments@ corneas!. net  1-800-678-6386  
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS  Two story h()use completely remod­ 574-968-3670  
AVAILABLE -Residential camp,  eled 2003. Ready for 2005-06  1994 ND grads hoping to adopt.  
WANTED  located in south central indiana. Operated by the Catholic Youth  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI­UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06  school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for  5-bdrm house. $400 per student. All utilities included + washer, dryer,  Please see Paren!Profiles.com for more info  
Organization since 1946. Serving  SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED- security. Four individually locked  security  (Arizona/Michael & Kathryn).  
PART-TIME SALESPERSON.  campers aged 7 to 16 in various  ROOM, TWO BATHS.  bedrooms, six blocks from Notre  system. Call 315-3215.  
EARNINGS UP TO $1 000/WK.  programs. Inclusive of persons with  HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE  Dame, bus stop in front of house,  GOOD LUCK MEN S B-BALL BEAT  
KNOWLEDGE OF PAINTBALL  disabilities. Great staff community.  DETAIL.  surrounded by other student hous- 
 THE EAGLES  
HELPFUL.  General Counselor, Specialty,  ing. Laundromat next door  Attention 2005-06 Jrs & Srs, Grad  
315-7275. START ASAP.  Adventure and Health positions  COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR  (drycleaning also), Basement avail- Students. Rental Home avail. for 2  SEND A VALENTINE CLASSIFIED  
available. Extensive training provid- LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year ­ able for storage of bicycles, lug- students. 9/12 mo. lease avail. Fully  TO YOUR SWEETHEART DEAD- 
Want a $10,000 scholarship for  ed starting May 2005. For applica- Available June 1 ,2005 2  gage,trunks,etc.,new furnace and  furnished. All appliances, utilities,  LINE IS FRIDAY, 2/11, AT 2  
tuition? Want a great summer job?  lion and information contact: CYO  Bedrooms-2 Baths, Washer/Dryer,  central air, new kitchen including  cable TV & high speed internet  P.M.  
Here is your chance for both. E-mail  Camp Rancho Framasa (toll- Security System. Fully Furnished  new stove and refrigerator, large liv­ included.Off street parking, 4 miles  
Ndsummerjob@yahoo.com for  fr.ee):(888) 988-2839,x25 or e-mail  (574)233-7373  ing room for TV or entertaining,free  from NO.  Hope you had a good 22nd. Hettler!  
more info  angi@ campranchoframasa.org  or Salvaty@earthlink.net  trash removal. Call 289-4071.  $465/mo/student. 57 4-656-8695.  

,----------------------------------------­
Tuesday, February 8, 2005 page IS
The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
TENNIS 

Agassi to play in Davis Cup 
Wisconsin-Green Bay 

Americnn stnr will compete for first time in five yenrs 
A»ociated Press 
NI~W YOitK -Andre /\gassi is n~turning to the 
U.S. Davis Cup team after a l'ive-ynar absence, persuaded by a 2 1/2-hour chat with citplain Patrick McEnroe over dinnnr at a Las Vegas restaurant. 
Agassi will try to help the United Stat(~S win the Davis Cup for tlw first time in a dnr:adn, agrnning to play at least in a first-round match against Croatia on March 4-6 at Carson, Calif.. the U.S. T(~ n n is Association announced Monday. 
The eight-time Grand Slam tournament champion, who turns 35 in April and is a father of two, stopped play­ing Davis Cup in 2000 as part of a sealed-back sched­uln geared to peaking for the majors. 
liP told McEnroe he wasn't surf' if lw wanted to come hack to tlu• team unless he could commit to playing ~~very match. But McEnroe n(~W to Agassi's hometown last wonk after the Australian Open to say, in dl'ecl: lley, show up when you can. 
"I told him, 'Look, I'm not e x p ~~ c t i n g you to do that, nor 
had a year where we had the same four guys for every match,"' McEnroe said Monday in a conference call. "I just tried to convince him that it wasn't a deal-break­er." 
/\gassi was a member of 
t hr (~ e I> a v i s c; up cha rn p i ­onship u~ams, going 30-5 in singlns. 
.lust last month, he sound­ed like someone leaning against playing in the 16­nation tournament. But /\gassi spok(~ to memb(~rs of the U.S. team and heard Mct·:nroe's sales pitch. 
"The captain and players know that my life will not allow me to play every tie at this stage ol' my career," Agassi said in a statement f'('l(~ased Monday by the USTA. "Still, they all (~ x p rt~SS(~d encouragement, which is very much appreci­ated." 
Bringing Agassi back into the fold improves the team -and should help sell tick­ets. about !iO percent of which are unsold for Carson. 
lie was ranked No. 1 as recently as early 2003, is 1Oth in the world now and still the sport's most popular male player. 
"In my opinion, he's play­ing lop-four. top-live tennis," McEnroe said. "And because of his aura. because of what 
rides streak to top 25 
5) joined the poll two weeks
are any or "Imagine ifAgassi had Davis Cup in that close contact with 
ago, the school's first national
tlw guys on played the last four final. him for a week." 
ranking in 14 years.

the team. "Imagine John McEnroe, Patrick's
years. We probably could 
LSU (21-1) was No. 1 for the
Don't cut off if Agassi older brother and predeces­
have won it once or
your options had played sor as captain, cited an 

he brings to the table as a Cup has been rotating; person, as a competitor, it Mardy Fish filled that role quite obviously makes it a against Spain. bigger event." Twin brothers Bob and 
The United States has won Mike Bryan are the U.S. dou­the competition a record 31 bles team. times, but not since 1995 -"''ve let him know that I'm the team's longest drought 100 percent supportive, if he since the gap between titles wants to join us. You know, I in 1926 and 1937. The definitely want him on the 
Americans team," Roddick said last lost to Spain week. "Selfishly, I'd love to in last year's · be around him and learn, be 
second straight woek and 
eig_hth time this season. No. 2 
Ohio StatP and No. 3 DukP Pach 
recPivPd a first-placP votP last 
week. but LSU got tlwm all this 
time. 

The Lady Tigers had 1 .I 00 
points in the voting after deci­
sive victories ovnr Mississippi 
and Mississippi Stat(~. 

Ohio Stato (22-2) had 1,03h 
points and Duke (22-2) had 984 
-six more than No. 4 
Stanford. Tennessee remained 
fifth and Notre Dame held at 
No.6. 

Baylor climbed one spot to 
seventh after beating Top 2!i 
opponents Kansas State and 
Texas Tech. 

The victory at Tech was ·Baylor's lirst in Lubbock since 1982. 
North Carolina, Michigan 
State and Connecticut each 
moved up one place to completn 
the Top 10. 

A 57-44 loss at Connecticut 
dropped Hutgers from seventh 
to 11th. 

Minnesota was 12th and 
Texas Tech 13th, l'ollowPd by 
Iowa StatP, DePaul. Kansas 
State, Texas. Ceorgia. Maryland 
and Tmnple. 

The final fiv(~ were 
Vanderbilt, Boston Coll(~ge, 
North Carolina State, UW 
Green Bay and Penn State. 

Iowa State, the surprising 
leader in the Big 12, went from 
19th to 14th for the biggest 
jump within the poll. The 
Cyclones (18-2), who already 
have matched their victory total 
for all of last season, routed 
Colorado and beat Texas last 
week. 
Associated Press 

GHEEN BAY -Heturning to The Associated Press women's basketball poll is just part of the deal for Wisconsin-Green Bay. 
Now that they're in, the Phoenix want to stay awhih~. 
While LSU swept all 44 first­place votes from a national media panel and the top six teams remained the same, UW­Green Bay joined at No. 24. The Phoenix (20-2) came in on the strength of a 14-game winning streak, the fourth-longest in the country. 
"We're moving up," UWGB coach Kevin Borseth said. "That's a good thing. That's what we want to do. Certainly it wasn't a goal of ours to get there and be happy and then get bumped out. We want to keep moving up." 
The Phoenix did that the last time they were ranked. They joined the poll for the llrst time in school history on Dec. 16. 2002, and stayed in the rest of the season. rising to as high as 16th. That team finished 28-4, the best ever for the program. 
"I don't know if the polls will be quite as kind this tiine around," Borseth said. "We need to solidify our position a little more. Ultimately we want to get into the national tourna­ment and see what we can do." . 
Florida State, which had been 24th, dropped out after losing two of three games during the past week. The Seminoles {19­
by saying twice." the last four inability to get Agassi and it's all or years, Pete Sampras to play Davis 
11~ 'a Z'411 S;ftedat 
nothing, McEnroe Cup regularly as a reason for
Patrick McEnroe
because said. "We stepping down after just 14 

1 Dozen Roses, Bouquet $27.99
Davis Cup captain 
we've never probably months leading the U.S. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February &, 2005 
NFL 


Despite changes, Patriots' goal is to repeat 

Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE. Fla. -Deion Branch needed just five little words to explain why the New England Patriots have won three of the last four Super Bowls. 
Asked Monday if he had any thoughts of leaving the team when he becomes a restricted free agent, the Super Bowl MVP 
replied:  "My  home  is  in  
Foxboro."  
Then,  referring  to  team  

owner Robert Kraft, Branch added: "J'm-proud of the family that Mr. Kraft has built." 
An emphasis on winning over money is what drives the Patriots to success in an era when free agency and the salary cap force major turnover at most teams each season. 
Next season's Patriots certain­ly will be different than this season's. The biggest losses are not players but coaches: Offensive coordinator Charlie Weis is the new head coach at Notre Dame, and defensive coordinator Romeo Crennel accepted the Cleveland Browns' head coaching job immediately after Sunday night's game. 
Crennel's move, which gives the NFL a record six black head coaches, was hardly a secret. As the Patriots' 24-21 win over Philadelphia was ending, coach Bill Belichick put his arms around his two top aides in a gesture of affection and appre­ciation. 
They will be hard to replace. 
"Romeo and Charlie have done a great job. A lot of the success we've had should go to them," Belichick said Monday. 'Tv~ been with them both a long time. I go back to 1981 with Romeo and I'll miss both of them a lot." 
The Patriots might, too. 

Next season, they will be seeking to become the first team to win three straight Super Bowls and the first to win four in five seasons. 
The San Francisco 49ers came closest to three NFL titles in a row, winning the 1989 and 1990 Super Bowls, then losing the next NFC championship game on a last-second field goal by the New York Giants' Matt Bahr. 
That New York team, which went on to beat Buffalo in the 1991 Super Bowl, had a coach­ing staff headed by Bill Parcells and including Belichick, Crennel and Weis, along with future NFL head coaches Tom Coughlin, AI Groh and Ray Handley. 1\vo of the players on that team are also coaches and are reportedly on Crennel's wish list for his staff with the Browns: Pepper Johnson, New England's defensive line coach, and Maurice Carthon, the offen­sive coordinator in Dallas under Parcells. 
Belichick's first order of busi­ness, therefore, is rebuilding his coaching staff, although he will take at least a week off, travel-ing to California for the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. 

Most of the core players, how­ever, should be back, although some are getting up there in age, notably linebacker Willie McGinest and safety Rodney 
Harrison, both of whom have 
played major roles in the team's 
success. 

Harrison, who had two inter­ceptions in Sunday's game, will "turn 33 next December, when 
McGinest will turn 34. 
One member of the Patriots unlikely to return is cornerback Ty Law. who missed the second half of the season with a broken foot after quarreling with the team over his contract in train­ing camp. 

Tuesday, l;ebmary 8, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SAILING 
Wom_an sails around world in record tim_e 

Asso<iated Press 
LONDON -1\llen MaeArthur has endured stormy seas, 65 mph winds, a broken sail, burns, bruises and exhaustion -nw.n a close encountor with a whalP. The payoff: a solo around -thP-world sailing reeord. 
ThP 2S-year-old l·:nglishwoman completed the 2(J,(l00-miiP cireumnavigation at ~:29 p.m. I·Xr on Monday by crossing an imaginary finish line betwnnn Ushant, France, and tlw Lizard poninsula in Cornwall on tiH~ south coast of England. 
Iler final timo was 71 days, 14 hours. 1 S minutes and :n sec­onds. her control team said. 
llnr 7~-l'oot trimaran B&Q broke llw record set by Franeis .foyon, who SPt the mark of 72 days, 22 hours, 54 minutes and 22 seconds, in February 2004. 
MacArthur. who planned to como ashore in Falmouth later, wlwrn a large media group was wailing, told supporters she was physically and mentally exhaustPd. 
"I can't wait to got in. It's been a very, Vl~ry long trip and an nxcnptionally hard one," she wrote on her Web site early Monday. 'Til bn glad to be eross­ing that l'inish lint~ and finally fooling a little bit of relief." 
WhPn she was done, r 
by Prince Charles and British sailing great Sir Hobin Knox­Johnston. 
"We have all watched your progress with the greatest possi­ble excitement over the last 71 days ... the whole ol' the United Kingdom is, I know, delighted by your success," the prince said in a statement. 
"Ellen has done supnrbly, it is an outstanding ell'ort." said 65­yoar-old Knox-Johnston, who made history in 1969 whon he became the lirst person to sail single-handedly around the world nonstop in 312 days. 
"When Francis Joyon beat the record last year he took three weeks· ofT the old time and that was mammoth. Then I thought that record would stand for years and now Ellen has come in and broken it," Knox­Johnston said. 
MacArthur's journey began Nov. 28. Since then, she has slept an average of 30 minutes at a limn and four hours in any day. 
She has reheated freeze-dried meals on a single burner stove while Jiving area measuring 5 feet by 6 1/2 feet. ller water supply is desalinated from the sea. She spent Christmas Day in a storm, but after crossing the halfway mark at Cape llorn on New Year's Eve she built a four­day lead on the pace set by rival 
T..ir~~n,·i~ Invnn. 
Announcing the Year 2005 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel 
' 

Scholarship 
Th;.mk~ to., !:lCill'IOll~ gift rwm the Albert Rm·;.mno ramlly, the ltahun Studies Program 
I' plca~cd tu annoum:c the ~ co.u ~()()5 nnnual competitiOn for travel 111 supptm of' ~ummcr 
IC!ooCi.lh:h umllorctgn stUd) 1n llaly. Gmnts wtll be made tn amounts not to cxcccJ 
$'\ ,flOO, .mJ Wtllnot no11nally l.'m·cr ull cxpcn!-ics. Notre Dame gwtluatc unJ 
tllltk'rl;JaUu.JIC' .t.;!Utlcnt.' who me planmngto punwc rcscan:h or a Jonn.al prngram of 
summer stuJ) 111 Ital) arc 111\'IIcLittl appl~. StuJcnts must ha\'c C(ltnplctcJ at least lmc 
~car nl lt;~llan hlllgUa!:!c The cuursc work wlllnommll) be tn Italian: wllllll\'olvc the 
~\lid) ol ltull.1n J.mguagc. htcmturc. and c.:ulturc·, and must he ·appllt.:ublc to u sllldcn!'s 
degree p111gram at the UruvcJ...,tl) 111 Nntrc Dumc. 
Rct•ommcndl'U ptogram~ lot lotcl!;!ll stliLI) tncluUc. l:ntl arc notlunllcU to: Lo)ol;.r 
UruH·t~H) 111 Rome. Ho~tnn Unt"CIMI) 111 Pw.lu;.r, UCLA 111 Prsa. Mtama Urm·cr!>ill) rn 
llrht!HI. ('11lumhta Unl\'CI~ll) Ill Sl·anJwn11. lntcrcstcu stuJcnts mt• cnclntragcd Ill 
Cllll...ultthc l11•tiCJhtb nn lti.lllilll lotctgn stUd) 111 the Dcp;utmcnl ol Romam.·c Umguo.tgc!>i, 
.14.1 U'Shaughncs.) H"ll 
Stlu.knt.~ ouc 111\'ltcU to ~uhnlll .tlcttcr whrd1 should tnl'luJc· 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Upsets rearrange Top 25 
Pacific moves into rankings for first time in school history 
Associated Press 

Pacific moved into The 
Associated Press men's college 
basketball Top 25 for the first 
time in school history. Monday 
thanks to a perfect start in the 
Big West. 

While !llinois was No. 1 in 
the poll l'or the 1Oth straight 
week, and a unanimous choice 
for the second time in a row, 
l'acilic joined the rankings at 
No. 24. 

The Tigers. (18-2), who have won 14 straight games, arc 12­0 in the Big West and off to their best start. Their only losses this season were at Kansas and to San Francisco, and they have a school-record 25-game winning streak in conference play. 
"It's great for our town and our school and our players," coach Bob Thomason said Monday. "They worked hard the last two years. I think they were a little disappointed they didn't get in last Monday. Now we have to go to Idaho and Utah State. As soon as we get ranked, we have to go play our hardest game of the year. but that's a good challenge for us." 
Pacilic has made six appear­ances in the NCAA tourna­ment, with a Joss to UCLA in a regional lin<tl in 1966 its best run. The Tigers were a No. 12 seed last season and 'upset Providence 66-58 in the first round. Thomason, the 17th­year coach who played in the 1971 NCAA tournament for Pacific, also led the Tigers to Oklahoma State were eighth Haiders' appearance at No. 25 the NCAAs in 1997 with cur­through 10th for a second was their first time in the rent Minnesota Timberwolves straight week. rankings this season. Texas center Michael Olowokandi. Washington was No. 11, fol­Tech (14-5) has won six of 
illinois (23-0), which beat lowed by Arizona, Michigan seven, the only loss in that Michigan State and Indiana State, Gonzaga, Utah, span coming at Texas. The Hed last week, matched the longest Oklahoma, Alabama, Haiders. who were ranked for streak at the top since Kansas' Pittsburgh, Connecticut and seven weeks last season, won 15-week run in 1996-97. Wisconsin. at Oklahoma on Saturday. Connecticut was No. 1 for 10 The last five ranked teams Maryland (22nd last week) straight weeks in 1998-99. were Cincinnati, Villanova, and Georgia Tech (25th) feJI 
North Carolina (19-2) and Texas, Pacific and Texas Tech. out of the poll. That leavos the Kansas (18-1) remained sec­Thomason isn't sure how the Atlantic Coast Conference with ond and third, while Boston ranking will affect his players. three ranked teams; it had a College, the only other unbeat­"When you get ranked, are record-tying seven teams in en team in Division I, moved you going to go out and play the poJI for live weeks earlier up one spot to a school-record better? I don't know," in the season. fourth. The Eagles beat West Thomason said. "We have The ACC's remaining teams 

l) .llll"i.pl.matum ol how the Jnopo~cU rc."'cmrh oJ Jorci!!n slllJ) '\"JIJ enhance their 
Virginia and Seton Hall to more things than this to -North Carolina, Wake Forest 
Jt'!-\ICl' prot!lillll 011 Notre Dame 

:!) ,, pcr!'lorwl ~t~ttcmcnllndrl't.lltng thcu btu..:kgrnund. mtcrcsts, unJ long~tcrm gootl!-o become the first team in Big accomplish. We need to win and Duke -are in the top .1) u dCM.'I'IPIHlfl ol the rc!'lt'<Uc..'h proJect or the progrmn they Intend to follow East history to start a season our conference to get a No. 1 seven. The other teams from 
4) .1 hullgl'l tndtl'illlng the co."'ts tm oivcd 
20-0. seed, then win our tournament the league to be ranked this 
~~ the n.unc~ nl two rcll~!Cnc..·c .... 
Kentucky and Wake Forest so we get to the NCAAs. We season were North Carolina Applknlinnllondlhll': Mnndny, F<•brunry 21", 200.5 each moved up one spot to fifth won our first-round game last State and Virginia. AlhN1 Rnvurino llnlhm Studle-. Trnn•l Schohu·.,tlip 
and sixth, while Duke fell from year, and we'd like to get in a Maryland (13-7), which 
Pt·o~rnm ht ltaliun Sh1<1ie" 
34.1 O'Shnnghnc-.y Hnll fourth to No. 7 after losing to situation where that can hap­returned to the Top 25 last 
llniv.·r,ily or Not"" llnm• Wake Forest and beating pen again -and maybe even week after a three-week Georgia Tech. win two games." absence, lost to Cfemson and 
NO Hockev Bus Trip · Fridav 2/18 -leaving lrom Jovce Center Gate 10 @4:45 PM 
ND vs. Michigan atthe Fortwavne Allen countvJ~ar Memorial Coliseum 
C +{"'~\+ T.I.~.~~~} = $10 & you ®;1r, vs. 
Rocke 
RSVP tQ Call 1-8393 
Transportation, lood, and aticket lor onlv $101 RSVP bv Mondav 2/14/05 Call1-8393 to reserve vour spot lvou're smart, vou knew thaD 
I page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 8, 200 I 
I 
I 



----------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, Fe?ruary 8, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Connecticut sends Syracuse to its third loss 
Villanova wins match of Philly teams as the Wildcats knock off St. Joseph's 
Associated Press 
SYHACUSE, N.Y. -Charlie 
Villanueva experienced tho ups 
and downs of college bask1~tball 
in three days. 
The sophomore forward had one of his worst games in Connecticut's win over St. .John's on Saturday. On Monday night. he had 21 points, 10 rebounds and several big plays to lead the 19th-ranked I luskics lo a 74-66 victory over No. 8 Syracuse. ending the Orange's I l1-game home winning streak. 
"This was a huge win for us," he said. "For me personally, it was as huge as it gets. This was a big game in a tough place to play." 
Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said Villanueva was in tlmrs after scoring three points on 1-for-5 shooting in the home win over the Hod Storm. 
"I told him if he plays hard good things will happen for him and then for us." Calhoun said. 
Conrwcticut closed the game with a 9-1 run and Villanueva outscored Syracuse 7-5 over the final 8 minutes as the lluskies (15-5, 7-3 Big East) won for tho fourth time in five ganws. 
"Our young kids took over the ganw," Calhoun said of his starting lineup that features a junior, thr110 sophomores and a freshman. "We're fighting for our NCM life. Obviously, this is the best win we've had this sea­son. We're getting a little better. I believe in this team." 
Hakim Warrick had 16 points for the foul-plagued Orange (21-3, 8-2), who had won all 14 horne games this season. The last time Syracuse lost in the Carrier Dome was last Feb. 16 to Notre Dame. 
"We have been very good down the stretch, but every game down the stretch you're not always going to make the right plays or miss a shot or two and that's what happened," Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said. "I thought we played as hard as we played all year." 
The game was a rnatchup of the last two national champi­ons, and the defending champs prevailed. It also matched two of the winningest coaches in the sport's history. Calhoun has 695 victories, two behind Boeheim. 
No. 22 Villanova 67, St. Joseph's 52 
Jason Fraser tries not to let his nagging injuries bother him. I le sure looked healthy Monday night. 
Fraser had 14 points and 14 rebounds, and No. 22 Villanova withstood a second-half rally by St. Joseph's for the victory. 
"It felt good just being able to do what's needed for the team," Fraser said. 

With the sweltering Palestra rocking in the latest meeting between these local rivals. the crowd at the famed home of the Big 5 saw another wild one in the series' 84-year history. 
Villanova (14-5) used a full­court press, hustling guard play and the best game of the season from the oft-injured Fraser to take a 21-point lead midway through the second half. 
Then Pat Carroll found his shot for the I lawks (11-9). 
St. Joe's leading scorer had a miserable first 30 minutes, missing all 13 of his shots and looking nothing like the two­time defending Atlantic 10 play­er of the week. Then it all came together for the 6-foot-5 senior, who nailed three 3-pointers and scored 13 of St. Joe's next 16 points during a run that sliced the lead to 49-40. 
The student sections taunted each other all night, but this was a pro-St. Joe's crowd and the fans cheered wildly with each basket. 
It was just too little, too late. 
The Wildcats hit a few free throws. Fraser fought his way through the middle for a tough inside basket and Allan Hay sank a 3-pointer that pushed the lead back to 61-44 and enabled them to hang on for their fifth win in six games. 

CNN Documentary explores challenges of our education system by following four new Teach For America teachers working in some of the nation's 
toughest schools. 
-







OUND THE NATION 
page 20 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVER's WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, February 8, 2005 
Men's College Basketball APTop 25 
NFL 


team 
1 Illinois (72) 2 North carolina 3 Kansas 4 Boston College 5 Kentucky 6 Wake Forest 7 Duke 8 Syracuse 9 louisville 10 Oklahoma State 11 Washington 12 Arizona 13 Michigan State 14 Gonzaga 15 Utah 16 Oklahoma 17 Alabama 18 Pittsburgh 19 Connecticut 20 Wisconsin 21 Cincinnati 22 Villanova 23 Texas 24 Uofthe Pacific 25 Texas Tech 

record points 
23•0 1;1J119 19•2 1,71:1 18·1 1,625 20·0 1,561 1H 1,505 19•3 1,429 17-2 1,349 21·3 1,311 20·3 1,262 
17·3 1t1.44 19•3 1,059 19·4 983 15·4 ·872 17·4 805 
19·3 686 17·4 657 17·4 648 15·4 550 15·5 ~5 15·5 309 17·5 250 13·5 242 15·6 189 18•2 173 14·5 156 
Wom~n 's College Basketball 
APTop 25 
1 
2 
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
17 
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
team 
LSU (44) Ohio State Duke Stanford Tennessee NOTRE DAME Baylor North Carolina Michigan State Connecticut Rutgers Minnesota Texas Tach Iowa State DePaul Kansas State Texas Georgia Maryland Temple Vanderbilt Boston College 
N.C. State Wist. Green Bay Penn Stale 

record 
20·1 22·2 22·2 
20"2 
18~3 
20·3 11-3 18·3 20·3 15·5 16·5 18•4 16•4 
18·2 
18·3 11·4 13·7 
18·6 
16·5 18·3 
16~5 
15·5 16·5 
20·2 
14·8 
points 
1,100 1,036 984 
•. 978··· 
925 873 833 76t 752 702 670 ,590 
553 
473 '459 
449 
.J./7 342 
274 
249 
207: 
196'' 
146 
90 
n 

Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -After winning another Super Bowl, New England's Mr. Do-It-All issued a warning to the rest of the NFL 
"Look out for Cleveland next year," said two-way standout Troy Brown. "They're getting a great coach." 
Romeo Crennel, who borrowed Brown from the Patriots' offense to play cornerback this season, accept· ed Cleveland's offer to be their next head coach Sunday, fulfilling the longtime assistant's lifelong dream. 
Crennel's agent, Joe Linta, arrived at the Browns' headquarters in sub­urban Berea on Monday morning and spent the day in contract negoti­ations with team president John Collins, the final step in making the 
IN BRIEF 
Canseco wreaks havoc with 
new book 
WASHINGTON -President Bush was not aware of any steroid use by Texas Rangers players while he was a team executive, the White House said Monday. 
In his upcoming book, Jose Canseco said he introduced Rafael Palmeiro, Ivan Rodriguez and Juan Gonzalez to steroids after being traded to Texas in 1992, the New York Daily News reported. Canseco said Bush, the Rangers' managing partner at the time, must have known about the drugs. 
White House press secretary Scott McClellan said he spoke to Bush about alleged steroid use. 
"If there was, he was not aware of it at the time," McClellan said. 
"He has recognized, for some time now, that steroids is a growing prob­lem in professional sports, particu­larly Major League Baseball," he said. "That's why the president has made addressing the issue a priority 57-year-old defensive coordinator the 11th full-time coach -and first full-time black coach -in Cleveland history. 
Linta, who was seeking a five-year deal for his client, was not immedi­ately available for comment. 
The Browns hope to introduce Crennel at a Tuesday afternoon press conference. 
His return to Cleveland -he was the Browns' defensive coordinator in 2000 -will cap an emotional few days for Crennel, who just won his third Super Bowl title with New England and the fifth of his career as one of the league's pre-eminent assistants. 
But now he'll be in charge of rebuilding the Browns, who are coming off a disastrous 4-12 season 
in his administration." 
Canseco's book, "Juiced: Wild Times, Rampant 'Raids. Smash Hits, and How Baseball Got Big," is sched­uled for release by Regan Books on Feb. 21. A company spokesman has said the date might be moved up. 
Palmeiro, now playing for Baltimore, dis_euted Canseco's claim. Racing Hall of Farner dies 
INDIANAPOLIS -Former car owner John Zink Jr., whose 13 champ car victories included the 1955 Indianapolis 500 with driver Bob Sweikert and the 1956 Indy race with Pat Flaherty, has died at 75. 
Zink, who was inducted into the Auto Racing Hall of Fame last May, died Saturday at a hospital in his hometown of Tulsa, Okla., the Speedway said Monday. 
Zink had at least one car in the Indianapolis 500 each year from 1952 to 1967. Besides Sweikert and Flaherty, his drivers included Jimmy Reece, Jerry Hoyt, Gene Hartley, Troy Ruttman, Jud Larson, Ed Elisian, Bob that included Butch Davis' resigna­tion on Nov. 30. Crennel is inheriting a team that has gone 30-66 since its expansion rebirth in 1999. Over the same span, the Patriots won consec­utive Super Bowls, three titles in four years and assured their place among the league's dynasties. 
Soon to be fitted with another Super Bowl ring, Crennel is ready for a new challenge. 
"Now I have an opportunity to take the next step, be in charge of a team, and see if I can be as success­ful as I have in the past," he said. 
Crennel's initial task in Cleveland will be assembling a coaching staff. He has reportedly chosen Maurice Carthon to be his offensive coordina­tor, prying him away from Bill Parcells and the Dallas Cowboys. 
Women's College Basketball 
. 

Big East Standings 
team 
Connecticut 
NOTRE DAME 
Rutgers Boston College Villanova St. John's Seton Hall Georgetown West Virginia Pittsburgh Syracuse · Providence 

confi  .overall  
8·1  15·5  
8·2  20·3  
7-2  16·5  
6·3  15·5  
5·4  12·8  
5·5  16·5  
5·5  13·8  
4·6  9~12  
3·6  12·8  
3·7  11-10  
3-7  11-10  
0-9<  1"19  

around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Illinois at Michigan, 7 p.m., ESPN Boston College at Notre Dame, 7 p.m., ESPN2 Florida at Kentucky, 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Chicago at Dallas, 8:30 p.m., Comcast 
Veith, Lloyd Ruby, Jack Brabham and Jim McElreath. 
He also was co-owner of Jim Rathmann's winning car in a SUO­mile race at Monza, Italy, in 1958. Argentinians advance in 
home tournament 

BUENOS AIRES, Argentina Third-seeded Guillermo Canas of Argentina advanced to the second round of the ATP Buenos Aires tour­nament Monday, beating Alex Corretja of Spain 6-3, 6-L 
Also, Jose Acasuso of Argentina defeated Paul Henri Mathieu of France 6-3, 6-2, and Flavio Saretta of Brazil topped Albert Montanes of Spain 6-3, 0-6, 6-2. 
The competition at the Buenos Aires Lawn Tennis Club features two players ranked in the top 1 0 -past French Open champions Carlos Moya and Gaston Gaudio. 
Gaudio won the BellSouth Open in Vina del Mar, Chile, on Sunday, beat­ing Fernando Gonzalez 6-3. 6-4 for his fourth career ATP Tour title. 
Tut:sday, f;ebruary 8, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 



Eagles 
continued from page 24 
San Franeiseo (29-0) in a IJ3-82 win. 
Now. tlw Irish are in the middle of a four-ganw stretch against four ranked opporwnts, begin­ning with a loss to Syracuse Saturday and ending with a matchup in Pittsburgh Feb 12. 
As Mike Brey coaches his 300th career game (151 at Delaware; 148 at Notre Dame), the Irish are looking to repeat history while simultaneously making a statPment in the con­ference. 
Boston College is led by junior forward Craig Smith, who aver­agl~s 1S.IJ points and 8.3 rnbounds per game while shoot-ing 53.9 percent from the floor. The most pleasant surprise for the Eagles has been sophomore forward Jared Dudley, who is averaging 16.2 points and 7.2 rebounds. 

Notre Dame's fronteourt did improve over the past three games, with Torin Francis (9 .2 ppg) and Dennis Latimore {8.5 ppg) playing up to the physieal levrd that Big East games demand. Tlw three-point shoot­ing of Colin Falls ( 43 percent) and Chris Quinn (41.5 percent) has driven the Irish oll'nnse most of the season, but the success of both the interior and outside games is reliant on the play of senior point guard Chris Thomas 
(13.7 points, 6.4 assists per game.) 
Boston College has defeated Georgetown, Connecticut and Villanova -a few common opponents to the Golden Eagles and Irish. Boston College's 60-52 defeat of Seton Ilall Saturday made it the first team in the his­tory of the Big East to start a season with 20 straight wins. 
The Eagles have games against Syracuse, Villanova and Pittsburgh waiting on their remaining schedule. 
As of Feb. 2, ESPN.eom classi­fied Boston Colh1gn, Syracuse and Pittsburgh as "locks" to reach the NCAA tournament from the Big East. Notre Damn 
(60) has a lower HPI rating than Villanova, Georgetown and Connecticut, the three teams the Irish will most likely compete with for a spot in the Big Dance. The Irish are 2-2 against those three teams, with rematches against the Hoyas and Huskies remaining. And· the way Notre Dame fares in big-time Big East 

S~in:: 
Bellini 

Tuesdays 
/' -. 
J 

Siz';;,le'ne (Sizzlelini®) ­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! 
A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;)-Iefie (Bellini) ­A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 
Cowan 
continued from page 24 

she cleared five feet, seven inches setting a personal best by nine inches. 
Ability got her to that point, but it has been her work ethic and dedication that have allowed her to overcome a less than ideal high jump frame. 
"She's not as tall as some of the otht1r jumpers. but she has been able to close the gap with her natu­ral jumping 
games -beginning tonight with Boston College -may have a lot to do with how they fare on Selection Sunday. 
Notre Dame and Boston College will be televised tonight on ESPN2, the first of six games to be televised nationally of the eight remaining Irish games. Notes 
+ Chris Thomas needs just five points to become the secon~ 
that the junior is a pre-med going. I was happy when I major. found out I took seeond 
Though she found balancing though, eonsidering there academics and were two Olympic athletics diffi­Trail athletes in cult at first, "[Cowan is] so the field," Cowan Cowan has set­said.
competitive and
tled in and Winsor was con­
she just wants to
found her niche fident in his ath­on the Irish win.'' lete's ability to track and field reach her six-foot team. goal.
Scott Winsor

Cowan's sec­"She's so com­
Irish coach 
ond place per­

"It was disappointing
ability and showed her hard work," that I wasn't able to potential, and Winsor said. her comments
clear 1. 8 meters last 
Described as showed the com­
week."
upbeat and petitive nature positive off the her coaches track, Cowan Stacey Cowan love. drew the "It was disap­
Irish high Jumper 
attention of the pointing that I coaching staff wasn't able to early in her Notre Dame clear 1.8 meters like last career because of her com­week. Everyone was missing, petitive and motivated nature. and since we feed off each It's hardly a surprise then, ot.her, it was difficult to get 
formance 
against a 

strong field of jumpers at last weekend's Me yo Invita-tional 
:>· 
player in Notre Damn history to score I ,000 points in Big East regular season play. Thomas would be the 25th player ov(mill in thn Big East to reach th11 1,000-point mark, joining form11r Irish forward Pat Garrity (1,1 07 points) as the only other NotrP Dame member. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pJeonard@nd.edu 

petitive, and she 
just wants to win. 
If we make a few technical adjustments, she'll be there," he said. 
Cowan agreed, but hpt her personal goal in perspective and focused more on thn team's performance so far in the regular season. 
"I can push myself to the six foot level. As a team, though, we want to win the Big East. With [last year's champion) Miami gone [to the ACC) we feel it's right there for us this year," she said. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 


1357 Ironwood Drive, South Bend . IN 

Tuesday, February 8, 2005
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 

Doubles 
continued from page 24 
State that helped launch them into the national doubles rank­ingc. 
The play of Langenkamp and Parbhu, on the other hand, has been a welcome surprise for the Irish. The duo has surpassed all expectations from both coaches and teammates. The pair's dou­bles record now stands at 9-2 this season at the No. 2 slot, including 6-1 in dual-match action. 
"In Eric's case. he deserves a lot of credit because it was not natural for him and he's really made great strides," Bayliss said. "He has terrific hands, he's very quick and he's developed a great feel for the doubles game. He's playing with Sheeva Parbhu, who is a less natural doubles player but really is a terrific athlete and a great competitor." 
The highlight for Langenkamp and Parbhu's consistent perform­ance this spring came against Florida State's Jeff Groslimond and Chris Westerhof, ranked at No. 32 nationally. The duo's 8-4 victory marked the first time either player topped a nationally-ranked doubles team. The dou­bles win was also the first for any Irish pair against a nationally­ranked team since D'Amico and Keckley's strong showing against Ohio State. 
"! think the win over Florida State has been the highlight so far," D'Amico said. "! thinkthat's the on~ match that everyone came together. It was a tough match and everyone fought hard and we ended up pulling that one out. Our No. 2 doubles team has been huge for us." 
At the No. 3 slot, Bass and King have shown flashes of brilliance for the Irish. Both players are highly-talented singles competi­tors who have played at the No. 2 and No. 3 singles slots, respec­tively, for much of the season. As they continue to shape their dou­bles teamwork, Bayliss sees a lot of potential in the duo's team­work. 
"The work in progress is at No. 3 and that's probably the most significant improvement of all," Bayliss said. "Barry and Stephen were 0-for-autumn in the fall. They didn't play particularly well, but through some real hard work focusing on their volleying skills and improvements in the serving area, they are becoming a pretty darn competent No. 3 team." 
Although the Irish have enjoyed a great deal of early suc­cess in doubles play, the team still feels that there's plenty of room for improvement. The team has dropped the doubles point in the last two matches, against No. 9 Duke and No. 34 Texas. If any­thing else, those losses just solidi­fy how important the doubles play has become to the Irish team dynamic .. 
"Anytime you're playing a top team in the country or a team that's comparable to our level, most of those matches will come down to a 4-3 or 5-2 finish," D'Amico said. "So that one point is huge and everyone can feel it. The break in between playing the singles and doubles matches is a lot different when you win the point as opposed to when you lose it." 
After playing four consecutive matches against nationally­ranked foes in the past few weeks, the Irish will have a little time to rest and reengineer their attack before next Sunday's match against Marquette. Bet on doubles play to continue to be a focus for the team's improvement as the season progresses. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 


Diver 
continued from page 24 
currently holds all four school records in diving, and was named the Big East Championship's Most Outstanding Diver for the past two years. 
She won the conference title for the one-meter board in 2003, becoming the first diver from a school other than the University of Miami to take a Big East title since 1996. Last year, Perry-Eaton dominated the competition, claiming vic­tories off both the one and three-meter boards, each by more than 40 points. 
In her junior year, Perry­Eaton was named honorable mention All-America after fin­ishing ninth in the NCAA Championships in the one­meter competition. Last year, she finished third in the event, just a mere 3.30 points away from a national title. 
Her road has not been pain­free, though. 
Perry-Eaton was originally a swimmer, until, at the age of 13, she decided that diving would fit her personality bet­ter than swimming laps in a pool. The converted diver became a three-time diving 

Want to ·write Sports? 
.CaJJ; 

All-American in high school, and qualified for U.S. nation­als three times. 
But upon coming to Notre Dame as a freshman, the Brandon, Fla., native compet­ed in only two events before suffering a season-ending injury. 
The diver refused to get down, and completed an intense rehabilitation process, to return to the pool her soph­omore year. She was granted another year of eligibility because of the injury, and is now looking to make the most of the extra chance she was given. Since then, the fifth­year senior has earned an undergraduate degree in aerospace engineering, and is currently working on a mas­ters in mechanical engineer­ing. 
This season, Perry-Eaton has won 17 of the 18 competi­tions she has entered, and is 9-0 in three-meter diving. She has not been beaten off the higher board in a dual meet since November of 2002, claiming victory in 21 consec­
2004-05 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
utive competitions. The fifth­year senior currently owns six of the top nine scores in three-meter diving in Irish history, and holds the Big East record on the one-meter board. 
After missing last summer's Olympic Diving Trials because of a broken foot, the five-time all-conference diver now has her sights set on a top-three finish off of both boards at this year's NCAA Championships. 
She is particularly motivated to do well in the three-meter competition after never plac­ing in the top-20 at the national level. 
Perry-Eaton and the rest of the Notre Dame women's swimming and diving team will take center stage at the Big East Championships, scheduled for Feb. 16-19. Then all eyes will turn to the NCAA Championships, set for March 17-19 in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Contact Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 




How would you score? 
Take a FREE practice test at Kaplan's Test Drive and find out. 
Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back·· Call or visit us online today to register! 

Test Prep and Admissions 
•Tell ,......., • ..,.. ••&~•t.,•d trodem-• llfllleot••~-o-•• "'CondiiiOtll aod rn.lncLoon• apply Foo c.otnpie~l.-¥~~eloei'>llfl' ·~.,renlJ. "'"'' ~aplnl com/hlf. TIM! H'lf""' Sco"' GUlltiiOlee I;H>Iy ~· 10 ~~~~~ cour..,,.,..,.,,. atld co•nplt!lt'd wotnon tne Ul'llltf4 S~lr' vod c ...aa. 
You"ve probably read Chomsky, Foucault, and Peter Singer How would you like to hear a counter-argument, for once~ 
The College Republicans and The Irish Rover. 

Actors Frorn rrhe IJ)ndon Stage OTHELLO 
Q 
by William Shakespeare Friday, February 11 and Saturday, February 12 : Both performances at 7:30p.m. Leighton Concert Hall · -·-'" Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts General Public $18.00 • Seniors/NO Faculty/Staff $16 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 631·2800. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
fdilUNIVHSITYOF hDEBARTOLQ ~NOTRE DAME ~ P[RfORMINGARTSCENT[R 
In collaboration with The Collegiate Patriot and the generosity of The Leadership Institute, 
Present 

Mr. Dan Flynn 
Author of · 

Intellectual Morons: How Ideology Makes Smart People Fallfor Stupid Ideas 
Come hear Mr. Flynn present his take on anti-American philosophy, Margaret Sanger, the Leftism that pervades academia, and more. Students and Faculty of all philosophical backgrounds and political views are encouraged to attend; intelligent discussion and debate is welcomed. 
Tues., Feb. 8, 2005 at 8:30p.m. Debartolo 141 
Feel free to come directly from the ND-BC basketball game. 
For more information, please email editor'chnshrover.nct. 
The /nsh Ruver. an mdcpcndcnt newspaper Servmg Noire Dame du Lac 
I'I'WW.ll'l'•hrov~l·.nct 

The Collcg&alc Pamol-S1gn up to receiVe tlus cntcrtauung. mtclhgcnt weekly ncwslcllcJ-a mustJcad for lhc pohtlcally·mchncdt 
1.\LIJl.;ii!.:Pl~\Ilf.!.l.ill> 


r-----------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------~-----­
Tuesday, February 8, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
YES! I THRIVE ON CAN 
I'M NOT
CAN YOU WORK VAGUE OBJECTIVES YOU 
TOO PROUD
WELL WITHOUT AND A COMPLETE LACK HANDLE 
TO SAY IT
SUPERVISION? OF RECOGNITION FOR CRITICISM? 
EXCITES
MY CONTRIBUTION! 
ME! 

CHARLES SCHULZ

PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, I'm running
one letter to each square, You should out of
to form four ordinary words go home 
sick days 
BYGUL 
j 
1 
rr 

C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc All Rights Reserved 
THICY 
j

I I r tJ 
LEVVET 
WHY THE: OPE:RA­TDR WE:NT TD
1 

rJ tJ 
WORK DE:SPITE: A He:AVY C.OL.-C~ 
www 1umble com 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: ENACT DAISY GARISH KITTEN Answer: What Mom faced when she forgot to thaw dinner-"ICY" STARES 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
31 Signed 33 Lumberjack 34 Cause of an 

intestinal problem 35 Willy of "Death of a Salesman" -';:t-:=-t-::t-=+=+::71 36 "Beloved" writer Morrison 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
WILLSHORTZ 
68 Works of Michelangelo 
69 Cinema verite, e.g. 
70 Test areas 
71 Forest growth 
DOWN 1 "Steady_ 
goes" 2 Molokai porch 3 Like a lot 4 Put another way 1=-+----+­
5 Biblical verb 6 Suffix with 
smack 7 Neutral shade 8 Title boy of old 
comics 9 AI Jolson 
standard 10 Handyman 11 Migratory fish 12 Santa 13 Letter run 21 Babies 22 Gerund suffix 25 A long, 
amateurish piano recital, maybe 
26 Gave up 27 Cache 29 It's definitA 

61 English sports 44 Outcome of 55 High school car, informally merciless exams, for short 
teasing? 62" Got the
56 Two-time U.S. 

World on a
46 "Yoo-hoo!" Open tennis 
String"
champ

48 Christmas tree dropping 58 Water color 63 Solo in space 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON TillS DAY: Masaharu Fukuyama. 16: W Axl Rose, 41: Natalte Cole, 55, Tom Bro~aw, 65 
Happy Birthday: This is the year to get your finances tn uruer You have to make whatever changes arc necessary to put yoursdr m a pos11iun that will lea<.! to a better mcome, lirestyle untl future. You haw what iltakes tu makl' those changes happen, but if you sit around procrasunating or unueresllmatc your potential, you aren't likely to get too rar. Your numbers are II, 20, 23, 29,41, 48 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't be rooleu by what people tell you touay. Someone will try to trick you into doing the wrong thing. Make your own decisions base<.! on what you know is fact. ** TAURUS (April20-May 20): You will have a much better hanule on what will work anu what won't today. Don't be surprise<.! ir you are a little uistracted by someone who has a personal interest in you. +*++ GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): You shoulu take a look at an investment opportunity. Real estate ueals will be profitable. Look fur ways to better yourself. A new look will bring you plenty or compliments. *** CANCER (,June 21-July 22): Your min<.! will be on personaltssues tu<.lay. but be careful how you handle the people in your life. Not everyone will agree wnh what you want to uo. Your plans will have to he soli<.!. ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may have to take on a little more responsibility than you hall planned on. Don't make a russ--insteau get the work <.lone and move on to better things. Love is in a high cycle. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You have a lot going ror you. It may not be a regular workday, but what you can get out or the way to<lay will make your life easier later on. An event will lea<.! to a chance meeting. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don'tlet an emouonal issue stifle your plans or stop you from doing something that you really want to <lo. It's up to you to speak up and let others know what you want. Be brave. •• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): What you see anu what you get may not coinciuc Check everything before you procee<l. It's better to be safe than sorry Personal issues can be dealt with. Say what's on your mmu. **** SAGITTARiliS (Nov. 22-Dl>c. 21 ): Rely on your rtienu~ ror support anu uuvice, and to have some fun with as well. Someone you are close to will tntrouucc you to a new acquaintance or concept that will spark enthusmsm. ••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may he out or sorts if you let personal matters escalate. Do sumethtng prouucti ve and you will elimtnute many or thl' problems trymg to mamrest in ·your pnvate ltfe. ••• AQUA RillS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Keep your t<.lcas uno plans secret for thl' lime being. Someone you think you can trust is likely to let you <.!own You will end up paying too much ror something ir you shop. ••• PISCES (Jo'eb. 19-March 20): You may be feeling ambitious today. Plan to elaborate on an idea you have. Creative projects will take ofT in a uircclion that looks promising. Attenu a class that will inspire you. ++++ 
Birthday Baby: You are bright, aniculate anu very quick to react. You uun't leave things to chance, but you are willing to take a calculated nsk. You arc thoughtrul, caring, fair and just. 
Check mil Eugenia'.\' Web .l'il<!.l' at a.l'tmadvice.com and eugl'nia/a,vt.com. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Banned orchard 
spray 5 Obey 9 Problem with 
eyeliner 14 "Smooth Operator" singer 15 With the bow, in 
music 16 Small songbirds 17 Welcome 
forecast for Santa 18 Undecided 19 Chopin's Mazurka in 20 Double-H of magic 
23 "Old MacDonald" refrain 
24 Not precise 28 Rwandan 
people 32 Kind of counter 33 Double-H of film 37 list 38 Author Umberto 39 Nocturnal 
lizards 42 Sparks's home: 
Abbr. 43 Birth place 45 Double-H of 
politics 47 "Seinfeld" role 50 Sawyer of 
morning TV 51 Secret pros 53 Game where 

you might hear "7 come 11" 57 Double-H of literature 61 Holy war 64 Prefix with distant 65 Emphatic type: Abbr. 66 To no (unsuccessfully) 67 Imperfect gravy feature 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, February 8, 2005 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Eagle hunting 
Irish look to knock offundefeated Boston College 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame has a 5-4 confer­ence record, a desire to return to the NCAA tournament and only eight regular season games to prove that it deserves a postsea­son bid. So, at arguably the most crucial point in Notre Dame's season, the Irish are hosting an undefeated. No. 5 nationally ranked team in the Joyce Center tonight. 
Notre Dame (13-6, 5-4}, who sits on the bubble of most post­season predictions, including those of ESPN.com. hosts Big East foe No. 5 Boston College (20-0, 9-0) tonight at 7 p.m. While the past 20 teams have failed against the Golden Eagles, the Irish hope having history on their side can help them succeed. 
The last time Notre Dame host­ed an undefeated team with 20­plus wins, the Irish beat No. 1 DePaul (25-0) in a 76-74 double­overtime victory on Feb. 27, 1980. Just three years prior, Notre Dame knocked off No. 1 
see EAGLES/page 21 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Improved doubles play helps team 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Sports Writer 

The well-known maxim of "if you fall short, get up and try again" can be applied to any aspect of individual or team sports. But it can cPrtainly explain the resurgence of the doubles play for the Notre Dame men's tennis team. trans­forming a liabili:y last year into an ever-growing strength this spring. . 
The Irish, who claimed the doubles point just 10 times in 23 attempts last season, have won the doubles point in five of their eight spring matches. Not surprisingly, the Irish have a 5­0 record in those matches. 
After only sporadic success in doubles matches over the past few years, the Irish coaching staff targeted the team's dou­bles play as a key area for improvement. 
"We've really worked hard on our doubles," head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "It was cer­tainly not a strength in the fall. I just think that the guys deserve a lot of credit. They've put a lot of time in and we've spent an inordinate amount of time in practice on our dou­bles." 
The Irish have relied on three principal duos to drive their doubles success this spring. Senior captain Brent D'Amico and sophomore Hyan Keckley have faced some tough compe­tition at the No. I slot. In thP last four matches, the two play­ers competed against two top­15 doubles opponents. Junior Eric Langenkamp and fresh­man Sheeva Parbhu have occu­pied the No. 2 slot. with sopho­mores Barry King and Stephen Bass rounding out the doubles teams at the No. 3 slot. 
"We have two very natural doubles players on our team. Brent D'Amico and Ryan Keckley," Bayliss said. "Eric Langenkamp has become a great doubles player. It was not natural for him and he did not play doubles as a freshman." 
D'Amico and Keckley are no strangers to the doubles spot­light. The pair posted strong victories last year, including an 8-6 upset of No. 26 Joey Atas and Jeremy Wurtzman of Ohio 
see DOUBLES/page 22 

WOMEN'S TRACK AND FI'ELD 
Cowan hopes to make 6-foot jump 
Irish All-American 
hopes to join the elite 
jumpers in the NCAA 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Two weeks ago Stacey Cowan ran down the high jump runway, leapt and cleared the bar. This was not 
--surprising for Notre Dame's All-American high jumper, who had just cleared a season best 1.80 meters (5 feet, 10 3/4 inches). What Irish coach Scott Winsor told her after the jump was quite a surprise to Cowan. "That would have easily cleared six feet," Winsor told his star high jumper. Six feet, 1.829 meters, 72 inches. 
Whatever you call this height, Stacey Cowan now knows she can clear it, and this is the stated goal for Notre Dame's top high jumper. 
Clearing six feet would place Cowan among the elite high jumpers in the NCAA. and would take Cowan to what Winsor refers to as the "next level." 
"What is remarkable about Stacey is her consistency at a very high level. She's ready to take it to the next step and compete at the highest level of competition," Winsor said. 
Cowan, a native of Ferndale, Wash., started jumping in the seventh grade, but it wasn't until her fresh­man year of high school that she discovered her natural ability in the event. That year 
see COWAN/page 21 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Perry-Eaton staying on track 
Diver's journeyfilled with bumps but the best is yet to come 
By MIKE TENNANT Sports Writer 

It's been an adventurous and successful journey for senior diver Meghan Perry­Eaton, b!lt this All­American is not readv to throw in the towel just yet. 
As the regular season draws to a close, Perry­Eaton comes face to face with one more conference championship and then a final chance to make waves in the NCAA champi­onships. 
Since coming to Notre Dame five years ago, Perry-Eaton has battled through injuries to become the most accomplished diver in Irish history. She 
see DIVER/page 22 


NFL 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
NBA
NFL 
TENNIS 

Crennel named 
Connecticut 7 4, 
Pacific makes top 

Patriots already 
Agassi set to play 
Atlanta 114, 

new Browns coach 
Syracuse 66 
25 for first time 

looking ahead 
in Davis Cup 
L.A. Lakers 108 
The Patriots' defen-
The Huskies gave the 
The 18-2 Tigers have 
A day after winning 

The American tennis 
Atlanta's Tony Delk 
sive coordinator will 
Orange their third loss 
won 12 Big West games 

Super Bowl XXXIX, 
star will return to the 
hit eight free throws in 
become Cleveland's first 
of the season and sec-
and are off to the best 

New England is already 
Davis Cup after a five-
the final minute to give 
black coach. 

ond loss in the Big East 
start in the school's his-

thinking about defend-
the Hawks a home win 
year absence. 
conference. 
tory. 

ing its title. 
against the Lakers. 

page 20 
page 19 
page 17 
page 16 
page 15 

page 14 
•
'. 







