
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 22 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21,2005 
President emeritus adjusts to new role 

Father Edward Malloy spends time traveling, reading during sabbatical year 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associate News Editor 
Since moving out of his Main Building office in late June, University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy has been doing just what h~ said he would before he ?tepped down last spring -enjoying his sabbatical. 
"I've always been some­body that actually, by instinct, always looked for­ward to the next thing that I did," Malloy said. "It's a sab­batical year ... I just come over [to the new office] every day, basically work from nine to four, then I take off and I go and I walk around the lakes at a fast pace and do whatever else is on the hori­zon for the day." 
Malloy, whose new office is located on the third floor of DeBartolo Hall, has adapted well to his new role. His new office is located in an area that students frequent, which gives him the chance to interact more with the Notre Dame community than when he was President. 
"I really like this new set­up," he said. "It's a nice part of the campus, a busy part of the campus." 
While other locations on campus were discussed for possible office locations ­such as Hesburgh Library or Malloy Hall -Malloy said his space in DeBartolo was free and proved an ideal location. 
"I like that students stop by and say hello," Malloy said. 
Life after the Presidency 
Malloy's average day is much different than it was 
see MALLOYIpage 4 



Community collects over $240,000 for victims 
during a time of crisis and acted quickly, with the hope that the assistance will "deepen !victims') hope," University President Father John Jenkins said in a press release. 
"Calamities such as the hurri­cane and the human misery in its wake sharply remind us whether we are victims or wit­nesses, we belong to one anoth­er,, Jenk'ms sa1'd. "We are grate­ful to be in a position to offer assistance to our brothers and sisters in the Gulf region." 
The total released Tuesday does not include the money col­lected from Masses in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and from the Hammes Notre Dame 
see KATRINA/page 3 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Students excited for ceremony 

Campus prepares for inauguration of new University president 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER News Writer 
Notre Dame students must 
choose between attending a 
historic University event or 
reveling in two extra after­
noons of free time Thursday 
and Friday. 
Classes are cancelled after 
1:45 p.m. Thursday and after 
11:30 a.m. Friday in celebra­tion of the inauguration of Father John Jenkins as Notre Dame's 17th president. Though all students are encouraged to attend the events, and received· a formal invitation to events such as the academic convocation Thursday and school-wide Mass Friday, the events are not mandatory. 
"I would very much encour­age students to participate because it is a special moment. It's one of the ways of showing solidarity with the new president," said University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy, who had his own inauguration in 1987. "And the same way stu­dents were very good to me ... I think they ought to show the same kind of respect for Father Jenkins as he begins his term of service as presi­dent." 
Many students acknowledge thf.l immense importance of the activities and plan on attending at least some parts 
see CEREMONY/page 3 

New. SMC program draws more to games 
By MARY CONROY News Writer 
Sophomore Alii Grimmer has not missed a volleyball game this year. Each time the team plays at Saint Mary's, she brings her small blue business-size card with her to get stamped on the way into the game. As part of this new "Get Stamped" pro­gram, students like Grimmer have been showing increased support for the College's sports teams. while hoping to get a free T-shirt at the same tinw. 
The Saint Mary's Athletic Department developed the new program this year to promote student and faculty attendance at varsity games, tournaments and events. "Get Stamped," which began in August, gives students the cards the first time they attend an athletic event, Athletic Director Lynn Kachmirak said. 

At each additional visit, the student gets her card stamped, and after the 1Oth stamp, the student receives a free T-shirt. The card is valid for all varsity , events throughout the entire school year. 
"!The program) is definitely an incentive, and way to show SMC pride," Grimmer said. "It is 
see STAMPED/page 3 



Freshman to star in reality show 
By MADDIE HANNA Associare News Ediror 

He walks the Notre Dame campus just like any other student, proudly sports his Notre Oame apparel and plays interhall soccer for Morrissey. But, unlike other students, he car­ries around a video camera and is soon to be a small-screen star. 
Conor Kelly is one of six college freshmen participating in a new online reality show for AOL's RED service for teenagers. Project Freshman features short episodes filmed by each freshman documenting college life, including Real World-style film confessionals. 
Kelly was one of "about two dozen" incom­ing freshmen to receive an e-mail from Notre Dame's Office of News and Information this summer offering him the chanee to apply for the spot, assistant director of admissions Bob Mundy said. 
see REALITYIpage 4 


University announces updated Hurricane Katrina collection total 
By LISA SCHULTZ News Writer 
After just 23 days of fundrais­ing for victims of Hurricane Katrina, the Notre Dame com­munity has raised $240,171 through collections in dorms, dining halls, stations in LaFortune Student Center and Notre Dame Stadium, among other places, the University announced Tuesday. 
Notre Dame saw its own responsibility to lend a hand 
..  
.. .  
page 2  The Observer + PAGE 2  Wednesday, September 21, 2005  

INSIDE COLUMN 
Words from 


a convert 

No, Notre Dame did not motivate me to convert to Catholicism -since I was born and raised one -but it did make me change my stance on , football. Coming from Latin America, 
soccer has always  
been "the king sport" in my  Sofia Bailon  
mind. I grew up  
watching games on TV, going to  Photographer  
matches, playing  
and talking about  
it with friends.  

Coming to Notre Dame I soon learned everything here was about American football, which I knew nothing about. I remember, at my first game, looking at the timer show­ing 15:00 and thinking the game would be pretty fast compared to soc­cer's 45 minute halves. Was I in for a surprise! When those supposed 15 minutes had taken an hour to pass by, I realized this was an entire day's event. You can imagine I didn't understand much of what was hap­pening on the field either, so through­out the game I kept imitating stu­dents around me; cheering when they cheered, booing when they booed. 
Now, as a senior, football is totally different for me. I finally understand what's going on, but most important­ly I share with the Notre Dame family the emotions that are brought about with every game. 
I've had the opportunity to watch games from the sidelines, taking pic­tures for The Observer. I was at Ann Arbor less than two weeks ago and as I was putting the camera and lenses away when the· game was over, the entire football team began running in my direction because there was a large crowd of Irish fans in the stands right above me. I admit part of me feared for my life and the equip­ment as the players ran and jumped around me, but it was amazing to see up close the happiness in the team's faces, the pride in their achievement -since we hadn't beat Michigan at the Big House since the early 90s­and most importantly their eagerness to show the fans this victory was for them. 
Being in the student section is quite an experience as well. Beginning by tailgating as early as breakfast, con­tinuing to make one's way into the stadium, rooting for the Irish at the top of your lungs, being carried in the air celebrating a touchdown with push-ups, enjoying the band's fantas­tic performance during half-time, and finally -regardless of the out­come -joining with those around you to sing the Alma Mater, proves that at the end of the day's event we acknowledge the importance of being here and being part of this family. 
I do hope for more moments com­parable to the win at Michigan for this season, but the Notre Dame spir­it helps me bear with the losses. 
In regards to my conversion, I am still a soccer fanatic, but my time here has gotten me to love football as well. 
Contact Sofia Bailon at sballon@nd. edu The views expressed in the Inside 

Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD STAR ON A REALITY SHOW, WHICH WOULD YOU CHOOSE AND WHY? 



Stephen Harvey  Dan Pearl  Chelsea Rahn  
junior Knott  junior Carroll  senior off-campus  
..Desperate Housewives; they're hot!''  ..Queer Eye for the Straight Guy; they're hot!"  ..The Apprentice! Who wouldn't want to meet Donald?"  





Angela Piccione Rosa Jimenez Jacob Leibowitz 
senior senior junior Breen-Phillips Lewis off-campus 
..Any reality ..You couldn't ..Crackerjacks; show with these pay me an Where to go 
lovely ladies." uncountable from here?" infinite amount ofmillions to be 

OFFBEAT 

Chinese pollee bust bogus booze bootlegger 
SHANGHAI, China-What happens to old liquor bot­tles? If it's China, they might end up baek on the bar shelf, filled with bogus booze. 
At least 10 people have been arrr.sted and more than 7,000 bottles of phony whiskey, eognac and other spirits seized following a monthslong investigation into a nationwide bootleg­ging operation, the official China Daily newspaper reported Tuesday. 
The gang, headed by a 45­year-old man identified only by his surname, Lai, collect­ed empty, discarded bottles of name brand liquors such as Chivas Regal and Remy Martin, and then filled them with generic drinking alcohol blended to taste, look and smell like the real thing, the report said. 
"Wine samplers said the fake alcohol Lai mixed ... would easily have fooled ordinary consumers," the newspaper said. 
Angry gator wranglers quit reptile hunt 
LOS ANGELES -Gator wranglers from Florida have abruptly quit their search for the city's elusive 7-foot alli­gator, livid that they were publicly ridiculed by a brash Hurricane Katrina evacuee that a councilwoman brought in to help nab the reptile. 
Thomas "T-Bone" Quinn described as "retarded" the tactics employed by the wranglers from Orlando­based Gatorland. He made his comments on Saturday after being escorted by Councilwoman Janice Hahn to Ken Molloy Harbor Regional Park in South Los Angeles, where the gator dubbed Reggie has inhabited a lake for at least two months. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 0:: 
LLI X 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
.... 
<
(.) 0 




HIGH 84 
HIGH 68
.... 
LOW 70 LOW 56 

HIGH LOW 


on one!" 
IN BRIEF 

Leslie Robertson, the lead structural engineer for the World Trade Center towers, will give a lecture today enti­tled ''Reaching new heights: high-rise towers and tall buildings." The talk will take place from 4:30 p.m. to 6 in 104 Bond Hall. The event is co-sponsored by Notre Dame's College of Engineering and the School of Architecture. 
Poet Ned Balbo will be read­ing from his two poetry collec­tions today at 7:30 p.m. in the Hospitality Room in South Dining Hall. 
.... 
Hammes Mowbray Hall, the new home of Notre Dame Security/Police and the Notre Dame post office, will be dedi­cated at 9 a.m. on Friday. University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh will offer a bless­ing, just as he did at the dedi­cation five decades ago of the bookstore that was located on the South Quad from 1955 to 1999. 
Fiddler's Hearth is hosting a "halfway to St. Patrick's Day" Irish Fest today through Friday to raise money for the Red Cross Hurricane Relief Fund. Irish bands The Sprigs, The Bardic Apostles, The Fenians, Teada. Brock McGuire and local band Kennedy's Kitchen will per­form, and all have discounted their tickets to aid the relief. Fiddler's Hearth is located in downtown South Bend at 127 
N. Main. For tickets and infor­mation, call 232-2853. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

77 60 


84 56 
Atlanta 89 169 Boston 79 I 62 Chicago 86 I 66 Denver 87 I 57 Houston 98 I 74 Los Angeles 78 I 61 Minneapolis 85 I 59 New York 84 I 65 Philadelphia 85161 Phoenix 101 I 81 Seattle 67147 St. Louis 88/65 Tampa 90 I 75 Washington 85163 

Wednesday, September 21, 2005 page 3 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Saint Mary's freshman presidential elections reach runoff 
189 students votefor first year class representatives in preliminary round; results will be announced Thursday 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Sainr Mary's Editor 
After topping a field of five tickets in Monday's election, Saint Mary's first year presi­dential and vice presidential running mates Francesca Johnsori and Pauline Kistka will face Mary Conroy and Katie Connolly in a runoff election today. 
Johnson and Kistka finished first in Monday's vote with 
49.73 percent and were fol­lowed by Conroy and Connolly, who earned 25.67 percent, elections commis­sioner Danielle Lerner said. 
Audry Anweiler and Maura 


Stamped 
continued from page 1 
something to do, and you get a free T-shirt." 
Before each game, the athletic department sends out an e-mail to all students reminding them to attend the games the follow­ing day and to bring their cards. 
The program was started due to a lack of home support for the Belles, Kachmirak said. 
Many brainstormed for an idea, but it was athletic trainer Stacy Schlumeohm who actually came up with the "Get Stamped" program. Kachmirak said. 
"The program was created basically to build up more spirit and enthusiasm for varsity pro­grams. So far it has been a suc­cess," said Kachmirak. "It's a great way for students to sup­port their classmates and room­mates. Students are excited at the events, and slowly but surely more students are coming up asking me for a card." 
Many students have found the frequent e-mails to be helpful and a good way to get students to support teams. 
"I hear about [the program] a lot and get a ton of e-mails [about it]. It's definitely an 
incentive to go to games this school year," said senior Alice Holohan, who said she has not had the chance to attend a game yet this year. 
Despite the publicity received by the program, some students were not aware of its existence. Other students have been extremely active in the program, and are well on their way to receiving their free T-shirt, Kachmirak said. 
The "Get Stamped" program is just one of the tactics that the Saint Mary's Athletic Department is using to increase fan support. Through the coor­dination of Kachmirak, royal blue game day T-shirts are worn by librarians, cooks, dining hall staff, custodians, maintenance crew members and the staff of the Jlealth and Wellness center on every home game day. Even though it is only late September, the fan support has increased, Kachmirak said. 
If the Get Stamped program works year-round for the Belles, other non-athletic departments and committees of Saint Mary's may adopt the program as well to increase .support that they need, Kachmirak said. 
Contact Mary Conroy at mconroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Katrina 
continued from page 1 

Bookstore. Some student groups are still collecting, and the University will keep accepting donations through­out the semester. 
A collection during the Michigan State football game Saturday raised $197,871, the release said. 
Student government was responsible for coordinating student volunteers for the collection, student body president Dave Baron said. 
"With a collection taken three weeks after the event, the Notre Dame family was able to come together to dis­play what we're capable of in terms Qf helping those in need," Baron said. 
Student government also coordinated all student groups, clubs, and residence halls and worked to help the d iffe rent groups find resources to facilitate their own aid efforts, Baron said. 
Sister Susan Dunn, rector of Lyons Hall, said sopho­more Veronica Owens approached her after the hurricane hit about wanting to do something to help vic­tims. Dunn said that the Hall Presidents Council had expressed interest in organ­izing fundraising events, aside from collections at dorm Masses. In response, Owens coordinated seven women of Lyons Hall to col­lect donations in all of the residence halls. 
Sophomore Erin James was enthusiastic about helping the relief effort when Owens approached her about going door-to-door on Sept. 2. 
"I wanted to go door to door because it's the least I can do for people who need help so far away," James said, who requested dona­tions from every room in Welsh Family and Keough Halls. 
The money collected from the door-to-door campaign totaled $4,391.02, all of which went into the general fund collected by the University. 
"I think everybody at Notre Dame wants to do the right thing, but it's the hard with these kinds of cataclysmic events," University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy said. "It's easy to throw money at it. but if 
you're going to be generous, which we ought to be, you have to figure out the shrewdest way." 
Funds raised by the University are being distrib­uted among Catholic Charities USA. The charities include Holy Cross parishes in the Gulf region and regional parochial schools participating in Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education volunteer teaching program. 
"There are a lot of charla­tans out there and there's ways the money can be focused in the right direc­tion," Malloy said. "[Distributing the money among several groups] seems like a very good thing to do." 
Malloy, who was University president during the Sept. 11 tragedy, recognized the char­itable nature of the student body and expects the fundraising efforts to contin­ue. 
"I think the University's always been a very generous place when it comes to doing our part, so I know that will continue.," he said. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 


Ceremony 
continued from page 1 
of the Inauguration. 
"It's a very special and meaningful event for the University, and I would like to be a part of it," said junior John Coyle. 
Coyle signed up to volunteer at the inauguration and also plans on attending both the academic forum and the inau­gural ball. 
"It's such a rare event that I want to go see it," said junior Vanessa Valenzuela. "Think about how many students go through here and never get to see anything like this." 
However. with classes can­celled Thursday and Friday afternoons, some students plan to go out of' town or relax instead of going to the events. 
'Tm certain there will be a number of people who won't be attending the events," Coyle said of his fellow students. "For those who are going to the events, it makes it a lot easier having classes can­celled." 
The Notre Dame Forum, an Clougherty finished third with The two top tickets were 
9.63 percent of the vote, fol­notified they had advanced to lowed by Maggie Johnson and today's runoff Tuesday at 9 Christina Partyka with 9.02 a.m. and were given addition-percent and al instructions. Jennifer Gray The candidates 
and Therese were permitted
"We were so
Tschudy with to actively cam­
6.95 percent. surprised, we paign until 
There were two weren't sure how it Tuesday at mid­abstentions, night, which both
would turn out. " 
Lerner said. said they did vig­
"A total of 189 orously. students voted Pauline Kistka "We were so and there are freshman excited," said currently 404 Kistka. "We were students in the s.o surprised, we class of 2009, so approxi­weren't sure how it would mately 46.78 percent voted, turn out." which is a pretty good Kistka said she and Johnson turnout," Lerner said. made no major changes to 
academic panel with interna­tional scholars, will be held in the Joyce Center Thursday at 2 p.m. The forum features for­mer NBC Nightly News Anchor Tom Broka~. Students who attend will receive a commem­orative memento, according to Notre Dame's official inaugu­ration Web site. 
The inauguration officially begins Friday at 2 p.m. with a procession from the Main Building to the Joyce Center. where the installation of the new president will occur at :3 p.m. 
At 7 p.m., there will be a cel­ebratory ball on South Quad, featuring live music and ice cream. 
''I'm only planning to go to the inauguration Friday after­noon," said Valenzuela. ''I'll probably go to the ball, but !the academic forum) just doesn't sound like something that would interest me. I haven't read the book." 
The book Valenzuela referred to is "When Faiths Collide," by Martin E. Marty. Copies of the book were sent to residence halls and aca­demic discussions with a fac­ulty moderator are being held 
their platform or strategy Tuesday but continued to make their names know to their elassmates by knocking on doors and passing out stickers. 
Roommates Conroy and Connolly were right back to work after they received their phone call from Lerner, Conroy said. 
"We were very excited but right away we were thinking. 'What's our next step?'" Conroy said. 
The candidates received best wished from students all day long, Conroy said. 
"Various people on campus, literally people from every class, said congratulations," 
Conroy said. 

After covering herself with signs, she and Connolly spent three hours Tuesday night visiting first years' rooms on campus, Conroy said. 
"We just stressed we are here for them totally," Conroy said. 
While she cannot campaign for herself today, she is going to encourage her classmates to log onto Prism and vote, Connolly said. 
Voting runs through mid­night tonight and results will be announced Thursday morning, Lerner said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
to talk about the book in preparation for the Notre Dame Forum. 
"It seems to me that [the events) are more for an audi­ence that is older than the average college student," said junior Dave Olson, who plans to miss the events to go out of town for the weekend. 
The dress code for the week­end is business-professional, aecording to the Web site... 
"[The dress codel makes me think that the events are geared towards a crowd that excludes the average Notre Dame student," Olson said. 
Sophomore Oscar Garcia is exeited for the inaugural events and plans to attend Friday's events, but also voieed eoncern over cancelled classes. 
"It does throw off the sched­ules a bit, but they are cancel­ing classes that we paid for." said Garcia. "We aren't com­pensated [or that and that's a bit of a rip-off." 
The last Notre Dame presi­dential inauguration was Malloy's in 1987. 
<E_C COCHRAN, CARONIA & Co. 
Investment Banking 
Cochran, Caronia & Co. invites academically strong accounting and finance majors with an interest in an investment banking career to join us for an infonnation session on 
Thursday, September 22m1 Center for Continuing Education McKenna Hall Room 112 6:00pm to 8:00pm 
Food and beverages will be served 
I lear why Cochran, Caronia & Co. represents a compelling investment hanking opportunity. 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 

Wednesday, September 21, 2005 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
"Then in March, I'm going been a lot of fun." that he left Notre Dame in Malloy conducted during his back to Australia for Notre good shape and that when I presidency, when Nathan


Malloy 

Dame Australia." Inauguration of Father took over I was able to do a lot Hatch was hired. 
Malloy, a resident of Sorin Jenkins of things that I wouldn't have "One of the candidates was
continued from page 1 

Hall, said he has become Though Malloy has stayed been able to do if Notre Dame Tom Burish, but he had just during the 17 years he served much more invested in the under the radar for the first weren't in good shape," he started at Vanderbilt and he as University president. dorm since stepping down as few weeks of school, he will said. "So I want to see John do felt an obligation to stay 
"The two biggest changes for president. have a small role in the inau­extraordinarily well because I there," Malloy said. "So he me this year is that I'm not "I've been taking the fresh­guration of Father John think the University's in good had e-merged before as a teaching and I don't have to go men out to dinner in groups Jenkins as the 17th President shape and I think there's a lot Notre Dame grad, a Catholic,
of Notre Dame Friday.
to a lot of meetings," Malloy and getting to know them so I of good will there, and it's just somebody who had a lot of 
"Both [University President
said. "I never thought that my can kind of build back a a matter of the daily responsi­academic credentials, and he 
Emeritus] Father [Theodore]
life was a burden. I enjoyed name-face connection," Malloy bilities and keeping attention had a Notre Dame connec­being president, but if you said. "I don't play in Monk Hesburgh and I have minor to the big picture." tion." 
designed the ideal life it Hoops anymore, though it still roles to play," he said. "But it's Malloy also encouraged stu­Malloy said he was also wouldn't be made up of eight goes on. I went over the first really about him, about cele­dents to actively participate in pleased by the appointment of or 10 meetings a day or some­time they played, but that was brating his presidency as it the inauguration ceremonies. Hugh Page as First Year of thing. It's just part of the terri­more for nostalgia reasons starts and bringing attention "Students are young, and Studies dean, replacing Eileen tory, but I have more control kind of." to the institution." they don't always appreciate Kolman. over my circumstances now, Malloy, an avid reader, has Though Malloy sees Jenkins things like this," he said. "I "Hugh Page I've known a 
at Corby Hall, he says they
which I very much enjoy." used much of his sabbatical would urge people to partici­long time," Malloy said. "He's Malloy has also decided not time to catch up on books and don't discuss matters of the pate because when you look an excellent academic, but 
University.
to attend horne football games movies that he has missed back on your Notre Dame also a good administrator. "I this year, though he will over the years. "He has to be his own per­memories in retrospect, this know he brings a lot of enthu­resume next fall. "Someone gave me a year's son," Malloy said. "If he wants will be one of the things that siasm and a desire to be of 
''I'll just be watching them Netflix subscription," Malloy my advice he can get it, but I will stand out. service to that position, so I on television," he said. said. "They send [DVDs] to me, don't expect him to." "It doesn't happen very think he was an excellent 
Relaxation and travel have and I send them back ... I've Malloy fondly recalled his often. It's full of a certain choice, too. I was really also been a part of Malloy's enjoyed myself very much." own inauguration 17 years amount of pomp and circum­pleased about that." sabbatical. For two weeks this Malloy's days may get a bit ago. stance, and Notre Dame's good In terms of advice, Malloy
"Looking back on a compa­
summer, Malloy traveled more hectic in upcoming at that." said when he became throughout Italy with his two weeks, as his new book, rable time in my life, I very University president, sisters and brother-in-law. "Monk's Notre Dame," was much enjoyed the inaugura­New administrators Hesburgh told him to pay 
"That was sponsored by the released Sept. 12. tion ceremony," Malloy said. In addition to a new attention to his mother and trustees," Malloy said. "We ''I'm excited my new book "It was a nice event for my University president, there are spend time with his family. went to Rome, then we took a just carne out," he said. "It family. many new administrators at "[Hesburgh] also said be side trip to Pompeii and was more or less finished [in "But it was a way that Notre Notre Dame. Malloy said he your own person, don't try to Naples, then Assisi, then May]. It was going through the Dame, since it doesn't do this was pleased with the choices imitate me, and I did that," Florence with a side trip to editorial process ... I'm happy very often, had a special made, particularly naming the Malloy said. Sienna, then San Gimignano, not only with the product but opportunity to talk about what University provost. And now, Malloy is doing the and then to Venice." it only costs $15, so it should was most important, about the "I wasn't involved in the same, still saying regular / 
Thanks to a major gift from be not too much of a burden wonderful legacy and heritage search, but Tom Burish is a Masses and making occasional the South Bend community, on students or anybody else that anyone who becomes good friend of mine," Malloy classroom visits and speeches. Malloy will be traveling a that buys it." president enjoys, and I think said. "I've known him a long But until he begins teaching great deal in the coming Additionally, Malloy is in the John's going to do a great time, and he's a great guy. He again next fall, Malloy said he months. process of writing two other job." was the perfect choice ... I told will keep a low profile and will 
"In January I'm going to go books. Malloy said he hopes to see John after the fact, 'You could­enjoy just being at Notre to South Africa, "One is a memoir, which is Notre Dame flourish under n't have picked a better guy."' Dame. Madagascar, Marisos Islands, like my life story, and the Jenkins' presidency. Malloy said Burish, a Notre Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Guam other is a book on higher edu­"The best testimony that I Dame graduate, was a candi­Contact Kate Antonacci at and Hawaii," Malloy said. cation," Malloy said. "So that's can give to Father Hesburgh is date for provost in the search kantonac@nd.edu 
Reality 
continued from page 1 
Although he said it's never been his "lifelong dream" to be in a reality show, Kelly was very interested in the opportu­nity and sent in the required online application and video. 
"It's a different type of reality show," Kelly said. "It's not TV, where they make up situations for you. I was really thrilled about the opportunity. Basically, I get paid to do everything I was going to do here." 
Kelly receives $200 a week for 16 weeks to shoot about an hour and a half of footage based on a list of topics given to him by his producer. 
"I talk to my producer about what's going on here for me, and then whatever we've talked about, he types up a list," said Kelly, who was asked last weekend to get footage of himself getting ready for the football game, then cheering and doing pushups. He said he is often asked for sound bytes and study footage. 
"What it really entails is for me to talk to the camera," Kelly said. "That's the crux of it for us." 
Although the program's press release describes Project Freshman as "the Heal World meets Laguna Beach," Kelly isn't given the carte blanche that members of those shows seem to enjoy. He had to sign a contract with AOL RED before he was accepted for the proj­ect. 
The contract's restrictions are extensive and designed to make sure content is appropri­ate for AOL RED's five million teen members. Kelly is not allowed to tape illegal activity, sexual situations or strong expletives, for example. Any references to entertainment must be suitable for teens ages 13 to 15, the contract read, which means no R-rated movies or music with a Parental Advisory Warning. 

When it comes to profanity, Kelly has a little leeway. The contract distinguishes between usages of expletives and gives specific examples. Acceptable usages of moderate expletives are "My school has a kick-ass hockey team" and "That test was a bitch." Unacceptable usages are "She has a great ass" and "Get over here, bitch." 
The University has general media guidelines Kelly must follow, such as asking rectors permission before filming inside their respective dorms and not filming in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart without prior consent. 
Kelly said he found it some­what difficult at first to find students willing to be part of his filming. 
"The first time, I made a sign that said, 'Freshmen, if you want to be a star, come talk to me,"' Kelly said. "People were like, 'Here's this creepy guy with a camera. That's super."' 
But he refined his techniques to something a little less "sketchtastic." His second sign read, ''I'm working for AOL doing a documentary and I need to interview freshmen. Please help me." 
He still gets a lot of questions about the project. Usually, Kelly said, "the response is divided 50-50." 
"People either think it's the coolest thing in the world and want to be a part of it ... Others say, 'Why would you ever do that? Don't put me on this thing,"' he said. 
The freshman most affected 
by Kelly's filming is probably his roommate in Morrissey, Phil Kirchner. But he doesn't mind. 
"He told me about it before [school started]," Kirchner said. "It didn't seem like I had to do much ... He's not over­bearing with it or anything. It's not him sneaking up on me with a camera." 
Kirchner said his parents were more "hesitant" about Project Freshman than he was. 
"But it's really not that big a deal to me, honestly," he said. 
Assistant director for News and Information Shannon Chapla said getting Notre Dame's involvement was a high priority for production compa­ny 2C Media, which pitched the project to the University early last summer. 
"They really wanted Notre Dame in the mix," Chapla said. 
So much that Notre Dame was allowed to give 2C Media input on choosing the other schools involved in the show, to help the University feel "com­fortable" with the project, Chapla said. 
"We didn't make recommen­dations," Chapla said. "There was a pool, a large group Of colleges ... We said, 'Here are some of the ones we wanted to be in the mix.'" 
The other five participating schools are Dallas Baptist University, the University of Wisconsin, the University of Missouri-Columbia, Marshall University and the University of Florida-Gainesville. 
Chapla said the University saw the project "as something nobody had ever dune before." 
"This is a brand new ven­ture," she said. "We kind of looked at it like we were taking a chance ... but a good oppor­tunity, because in the coming years, you're probably going to see a lot more of this." 
Notre Dame's involvement in Project Freshman was approved by the Office of News and Information and vice presi­dent of Public Affairs Hilary Crkovich "[University President Father John] Jenkins personally signed off on it," Chapla said -then went to the University General Counsel, which drafted a contract with AOL and 2C Media. 
"I think it will look very good for the University, because Conor's a good kid. He lives and breathes Notre Dame," Chapla said. "But we're not doing this for publicity at all." 
Mundy said he thought the show would "have a positive impact" on admissions. 
"The First Year experience at Notre Dame is almost always exceptionally positive for rea­sons that resonate with our prospective students and their families," Mundy said. "We think that this could be a won­derful way to share the 'initia­tion' into the ND family." 
Chapla said the first install­ment of Project Freshman will be available to AOL subscribers Friday. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 




Save$100 
on MCAT.prep!' 
Enroll In the #1 MCAT course by September 30 and save S100! 
Classes start 9/24 & 10/8 Sign up today and save your seat' 
Call or visit us online today to enroll and take advantage of this limited-time offer. 

1-800-KAP-TEST Higher test scores 
guaranteed or

kaptest.com;mcat 
your money back h 

Test Prep and Admissions 
•MCAT Is a regiStered tra<Wnark 01 tne Assocllltkln of AmeriCIIfl Medical Colleges • •Cmdtllons ln1 raslr1Ctlons 
apjjy. For r.omplete guanlltee ellglbliiiY recvlrements. viSit kaptest. oomfhSg. Hlgller Score Guaranl<~e applll!s <lilly to Kaplan oourses tal<en an<! cmJ~ecl witHin lhe Ontted Sillies lind <:al8da. tMust 81Toll between September 
1. 2005 ll1d Septembe.f 30. ~005. carrot be COil'blned wt\t1 91\' olhllr offer, retlllte, d!Scoont, or promotion. Offer apj)ll&s onty to lh~ MCAT Clas&O<Ifll COUI'l\e, Premllm Olllh! Coun;e, aoo "'IV<tte Tut<lfft'tg pr~llliS 

Wednesday, September 21, 2005 Cotv\PILED FROM -fHE OBSERVER'S \VlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
German elections cause uncertainty 
BERLIN -Conservative challenger 
Angela Merkel won overwhelming backing 
from her party Tuesday ahead of talks with 
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's Social 
Democrats about a coalition government. 
Schroeder, apparently showing new flexi­
bility, said all sides should drop "precondi­
tions." 
German voters ousted Schroeder's gov­
ernment Sunday but didn't give Merkel a 
parliamentary majority, leaving Europe's 
largest economy -beset by high unem­
ployment, sluggish growth and budget 
deficits-rudderless. 
Both Schroeder and Merkel claim a man­
date to be the next chancellor, a dispute to 
be settled in coalition talks beginning 
Thursday among Germany's political par­
ties. But the outcome is far from clear: one 
could win, or both could conceivably be 
overlooked by their own parties. 
Gaza withdrawal reduces tension 
UNITED NATIONS -Mideast peace bro­
kers said Tuesday that Israeli Prime Minister 
Ariel Sharon demonstrated political courage 
in ending the Israeli occupation of the Gaza 
Strip and eased pressure on both sides as 
Israel and the Palestinians adjust to changed 
political circumstances. 
The peacemaking group known as the 
quartet made no specific new demands on 
Israel to capitalize on momentum from the 
Gaza withdrawal, and avoided harsh public 
assessments of Palestinian security measures 
in the volatile territory they now control. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush denies North Korea demand 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration 
on Tuesday dismissed North Korea's demand 
for civilian nuclear reactors and appeared 
confident about a final agreement to end that 
nation's nuclear weapons program. 
Still, the United States and South Korea fore­see difficulties. 
The next round of negotiations is planned for early November. In the interim, informal discussions among the six negotiating nations -the United States, North Korea, China, South Korea, Japan and Russia-are expect­ed. 
"We are going to get this done," U.S. nego­tiator Christopher Hill told The Associated Press in an interview. 
Reid: I will vote to reject Roberts 
WASHINGTON -· Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid said Tuesday he would oppose con­firmation of Chief Justice-nominee John Roberts, questioning Hoberts' commitment to civil rights and accusing the Bush administra­tion· of stonewalling requests for documents that might shed light on his views. 
At the same time, Reid readily predicted Roberts will win Senate confirmation, coupling ' the forecast with a warning of sorts to President Bush as he considers candidates for a second vacancy on the Supreme Court. "No one should think that just automatically they're all going to be easy like this one," he said. 
Reid is one of four senators invited to a White House meeting with Bush on Wednesday to discuss the vacancy created by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor's decision to retire. 
LOCAL NEWS West Nile virus affects nine Hoosiers 
CROWN POINT-Nine Indiana residents have tested positive lor the West Nile virus so far this year in a recent surge health officials say demonstrates that Hoosiers need to remain vigi­lant in avoiding mosquitoes even as cooler fall weather arrives. 
State officials announced Monday that five human cases of West Nile have been diagnosed in Lake County and two in Porter County, boost­ing the state's total to nine. 
Although colder weather is approaching, the mosquitoes that spread the disease will be around until the first hard frost, health officials said. 
IRAN 





Nation gives U.N. ultimatum 
Country warns ofresuming uranium enrichment ifbrought before Security Council 
Associated Press 
TEIIHAN -Iran on 
Tuesday threatened to 
resume uranium enrichment 

and bar open inspections of 
its nuclear facilities if an 
ongoing meeting of the U.N. 
nuclear watchdog decides to 
refer it to the Security 
Council for possible sanc­
tions. 
However, Iran's top 
nuclear negotiator, Ali 
Larijani, offered Europe a 
new round of talks, saying 
the world should give 
Tehran's new government a 
chance to reach a political 
understanding. 
At the International 
Atomic Energy Agency 
board meeting in Vienna, 
European negotiators pre­
pared a draft resolution that 
would refer Iran to the 
Security Council for alleged 
"failures and breaches of its 
obligations to comply" with 
the Nuclear Nonproliferation 
Treaty. 
But Russia's opposition could delay the vote until a later meeting of the 35­member board, diplomats in Vienna said. 
Larijani criticized the dis­cussion in Vienna, saying nuclear technology has become a matter of national pride and that the Iranian government would not com­promise over its right to enrich uranium. 
"If they want to speak with Iran with the language of force, Iran will have no choice, in order to preserve its technological achieve­ments, to get out of the framework of the NPT and the additional protocol and resume (uranium I enrich­ment," Larijani told a news conference. 
I .arijani did not appear to be calling for Iran to pull out of the treaty completely but rather to suspend the proto­col that allows unfettered, short-notice inspections of nuclear facilities. 
He warned that Iran's response w(mld be the same if the IAEA tried to impose deadlines. 


..If they set a deadline, it will, from Iran's point of view, make no difference from being referred to the 
U.N. Security Council and Iran will react in the same manner," Larijani said. 
Britain, Germany and France, negotiating on behalf of the European Union, have drafted a reso­lution demanding Iran be referred to the couneil. But Europeans face opposition from other members of the IAEA board of governors, which started meeting Monday to discuss Iran's nuclear program. 
The IAEA has been trying to determine if gaps in Iranian reporting on more than 18 years of clandestine nuclear activity are attempL'> to hide military involvement in what Iran insists is a purely civilian program to generate electricity. Establishing such involve­ment would bolster argu­ments by Washington and iL'> allies that Iran's program is a cover for making nuclear arms. 
Board members China and Russia -both Security Cnundl members with veto power -oppose hauling Iran before the U.N.'s top decision-making body. But diplomats say the Russians could change their mind, which is the rationu.le for possibly delaying a vote. 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice also hinted that, while referral was a near certainty, when that might happen was undecid­ed. 
''I'm quite certain that at some point in time Iran is going to be referred to the Security Council, particularly if Iran continues to demon­strate that it is not prepared to give the international community assurances that it is not going to try to build a nuclear weapons program under cover of civil nuclear power," she told reporters Monday at the United Nations. 
Larijani urged the European troika to get back to the negotiating table. 
"We are telling the three European countries that we are ready for talks but with­in the framework of the NPT," he said. 

Rita hits Florida, heads for Mexico 
Alisociated Press 

KEY WEST -Rapidly strengthen­ing Hurricane Hita lashed the Florida Keys on Tuesday and headed into the Gulf of Mexico, where fore­casters feared it could develop into another blockbuster storm targeting Texas or Louisiana. 
Thousands of people were evacu­ated from the Keys and low-lying areas of northern Cuba. On the far side of the Gulf of Mexico in Texas, Galveston started evacuations and officials made plans to move refugees from Ilurrieane Katrina who had been housed in the Houston area to Arkansas. 
Forecasters said Rita could inten­sify in the Gulf of Mexico into a Category 4 storm with winds of at least 131 mph. The most likely desti­nation by week's end was Texas, although Louisiana and northern Mexico were possibilities, according to the hurricane center. 
Acting FEMA Director R. David Paulison told reporters that the agency has aircraft and buses avail­able to evacuate residents of areas the hurricane might hit. Rescue teams and truckloads of ice, water and prepared meals were being sent to Texas and Florida. "I strongly urge Gulf coast residents to pay attention" to the storm. he said. 
Stung by criticism of the govern­ment's slow initial response to Hurricane Katrina, President Bush signed an emergency declaration for Florida and spoke with Texas Gov. Hick Perry about planning for the storm's landfall. 
"All up and down the coastline people are now preparing for what is anticipated to be another signifi­cant storm," Bush said. 
Florida Gov. Jeb Bush said more than 2,000 Florida National Guard troops and dozens of law enforce­ment officers were ready to deal with the storm's aftermath, although it appeared the Keys were spared the storm's full fury. 

Wednesday, September 21, 2005
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
small-company big-companyenvironment impact® 
Who says you have tD choose? 
The Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, the world's most comprehensive and broadly based manufacturer of health care products, will be visiting your campus. Come discover how our small-company environments, combined with our big-company impact, can open the door to a world of career opportunities. 
Look deeper at the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. 



find more 
www.jnj.com/careers 

J~hiison & Johnson Pres~Iitatwn , Come learn about opportunities that may be available in: Engineering, Information ~1anagement, Operations/Logistics, Quality, R&D, Human Resources, Sales, Finance, and l\1arketing. Date/Time: Tuesday, September 27, 2005, 6:00-8:00 PM Location: Room 100, Center for Continuing Education, rvicKenna llall 
jo~son & Joh!tson ~...l(ec;. II'K :\ i! membE"t 0 Johnson & Johns.."m Ser~;r:,es. II'\(, .1005 Joht)SOll & Jor.:,SQn eompani~ afe equal opportunity empiQytl'r'S ot the johnson & Jotm;on Fc1m1iy of Con~pan1es SMALL-<:OMPANY EN\ilPONMtNT•lliG COMPANY IMPACT;, a r0<Ji'!'"'ed t•ador,.,1< ot Johnson & Jon"""'. · 


Wednesday, September 21, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

fc,~~s 10,481.52 -76.11 
··t:.tp:· Same: Down: Composite Volume:
1,03, ~2o,517,25o 

fTSf IOO(London) 5,416.40 -13.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ)  -0.41  -0.16  38.93  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.62  -0.16  25.84  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -1.10  -0.20  17.97  
ORACLE ~ORP (ORCL)  +0.83  +0.11  13.40  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.81  -0.20  24.48  
Treasuries  ·  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.53  -0.24  45.19  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.09  -0.04  42.43  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.72  +0.29  40.50  
3-MONTH BILL  +2.47  +0.85  35.25  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.1 6  66.23  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -0.40  470.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +2.00  82.85  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I I 1.9650  
EURO  0.8254  
POUND  0.5561  
CANADIAN$  1.1 707  

IN BRIEF 
U.S. Steel to miss earnings estimates 
PITTSBUHGII -U.S. Steel's third-quarter earnings won't meet analysts' expectations because of rising natural gas and scrap prices, the company said Tuesday. 
"Significant declines in income for the flat­rolled and U.S. Steel Europe segments, com­pared to second quarter results, will be reported in late October," the company said in a release Tuesday. 
Analysts polled by Thomson Finandal were forecasting third-quarter earnings of $1.44 per share. 
The company had earnings of $245 million in the second quarter, or $1.88 per share, and reported earnings of $354 million, or $2.72 per share, in the third quarter of 2004. 
U.S. Steel shares were trading at $43.69, down $1.56, Tuesday afternoon on the New York Stock Exchange. Trading of U.S. Steel shares were delayed until the earnings out­look was announced. 
The company also announced Tuesday that a blast furnace in Gary, Ind., which was idled in May, will start up again in December -a month behind schedule -and won't reach its capacity of 9,200 tons per days until January. The furnace is being rebuilt, but that process was delayed by an accident at the mill earlier this month. 
Publisher pleads guilty to mail fraud 
CHICAGO-Former Chicago Sun-Times pub­lisher David Radler pleaded guilty Tuesday to taking part in a scheme to siphon away $32 mil­lion from Hollinger International Inc., the news­paper's parent company, for himself and others. 
Radler, who resigned in 2003, entered his guilty plea to one count of mail fraud in federal court in Chicago. He is cooperating with prosecutors who have said the investigation is ongoing. Radler remains free on bond. 
··This is the first step in making amends for what has taken place," Radler's attorney Anton Valukas said after court. 
Radler was indicted Aug. 18 along with a for­mer executive of the company that owns the Sun-Times and Toronto-based RaveL'iton Corp., a private company owned until this spring by Conrad Black, on five counts each of mail fraud and two counts of wire fraud. 


Federal Reserve increases rates 
Fed continues zvith measured .25 percent interest rate hike in spite of Katrina 
Associated Press 

NE\V YOHK -Investors 
concerned about slowing 
economic growth sent 
stocks sharply lower 
Tuesday after the Federal 
Heserve said it would con­
tinue raising interest rates 
despite Wall Street's wor­
ries about the economic 
impact of Hurricane 
Katrina. 

While some investors had hoped for a pause in rate hikes after the hurri­cane, the Fed--concerned about high oil prices and their potential to spark inflation -raised the nation's benchmark rate by ·a quarter percentage point to 3. 7 5 percent. The Fed said the destruction along the Gulf Coast, while hampering economic activ­ity short-term and pressur­ing the stock market, did not pose "a more persist­ent threat" to the overall economy. 
Instead, the Fed said it would stick to its policy of gradual, measured rate hikes. While that may keep inflation in check, the move would make it more index lost 9.68, or 0. 79 after rising more than $4 sumers appetite for expensive for individuals percent, to 1,221.34, and on Monday. spending is holding up. and companies to borrow the Nasdaq composite The markets were mostly Circuit City posted earn­money -something that index dropped 13.93, or unfazed as the Commerce ings of a penny per share, investors feared could hin­0.65 percent, to 2,131.33. Department reported a better than the 3-cent-per­der economic expansion. Bonds held steady after decline in new home con­share loss expected on 
"I would read it as a very · the Fed decision, with the struction, a possible sign of Wall Street. The electron­hawkish statement under yield on the 10-year a cooling housing market. ics retailer jumped R3 the circumstances, barely Treasury note unchanged Construction of new homes cents to $16.34, while rival paying lip service to the at 4.25 percent from late and apartments dropped Best Buy Co. Inc., which potential threat to the Monday. The dollar made 1.3 percent last month disappointed investors last economy from Katrina," gains against other major after a decline of 1. 5 per­week with sluggish profits, said Chris Piros, director of currencies af}er the Fed's cent in July, the first back­lost 78 cents to $41.46. investment strategy for rate hike was announced. to-hack declines in housing While Circuit City Prudential's Strategic Gold prices were mixed. starts in 17 months. encouraged investors, con­Investment Research Oil prices fell sharply As long as the drop in sumer spending may still Group. "They're saying during the session, though construction remains mod­be a troublesome issue they have an obligation to regained some of the loss­erate, and consumer heading into the holiday maintain price stability es as Hurricane Hita spending can remain season. The International and fight inflation, but no strengthened as it passed strong, the economy would Council of Shopping obligation on economic between Florida and Cuba likely continue to grow, Centers said retail sales at growth or anything else." on an expected path albeit at a slower pace. chain stores fell 2.1 per­
The Dow Jones industrial toward the Gulf of Mexieo's Earlier in the session, cent for the week ending average fell 76.11, or 0.72 oil production and refining stocks had moved higher Sept. 17, the largest percent, to 1 0,481.52. centers. A barrel of light as Cireuit City Stores Inc. dropofr since Dec. 6, 2003 
Broader stock indicators crude settled at $66.23, posted a surprise profit for and the fourth straight also moved lower. The do.wn $1.16, on the New the third quarter, reassur­week of flat or declining Standard & Poor's 500 York Mercantile Exchange ing Wall Street that con-sales. 

GERMANY 


Fed decision affects price of dollar 
Associated Press federal funds rate, or the interest rate pushed the euro to an all-time high of 
banks charge each other, to 3.75 per­$1.3667 at the end of December. 
BERLIN -The U.S. dollar strength­cent, the highest level since 2001. The "The euro has got structural prob­ened slightly against the yen Tuesday, Fed signaled that more rate hikes lems, but it just so happens that the but fell against the 12-nation euro were likely even as the country recov­dollar has deeper ones with the twin after the U.S. Federal Reserve raised ers from the devastating effects of deficits," Brown said. key interest rates by a quarter point Hurricane Katrina. Sunday's election in Germany left for the 11th straight time. The dollar Higher interest rates strengthens a conservative leader Angela Merkel was mixed against other currencies. currency by raising the return on with a slight advantage over 
In late New York trading, the euro investments in that country. Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's Social bought $1.2162, up from $1.2142 late Despite the Fed's move, currency Democrats, but both claimed they had Monday and off the $1.2225 it bought dealers said the dollar was still the mandate to form Germany's next Friday before the German election. dogged by the growing trade and government. 
The British pound rose to $1.8038 budget gaps in the United States. In· other economic news, the U.S. from $1.8026, and the dollar bought David Brown, an analyst with Bear Commerce Department reported the 
111.61 yen, up from 111.46 the night Stearns in London, said it seemed that construction of new homes edged before. The dollar fell to 1.2769 Swiss the euro has been held back from a down in August for a second consecu­francs from 1.2771, and rose to free fall after inconclusive election tive month, providing evidence that 1.1689 Canadian dollars from 1.1678. results in Germany by concerns over the nation's housing market may final­
The Fed boosted their target for the the U.S. deficits -the worries that ly be cooling. 

.' ., 
\ 
Wednesday, September 21, 2005 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. Senate maintains beef ban 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Angry with Japan for refusing to lift a mad cow-related ban on U.S. beef, senators retaliated Tuesday by voting to retain a ban on Japanese beef. 
Once the biggest customer of American beef, importing more than $1.5 billion's worth in 2003, Japan has refused to allow the purchase of U.S. beef since the nation's first case of mad cow disease was confirmed in Washington state almost two years ago. Last fall, Japan agreed to lift the ban but still hasn't done so. 
In June, U.S. authorities con­firmed a second domestic case in a Texas-born cow. Japan, in contrast, has found 20 cases of mad cow disease. U.S. regula­tors proposed last month to 
partially  lift  the  ban  on  
Japanese beef.  
Japan's  stalling  is  "just  

unfair," said Sen. Ben Nelson, D-Neb. 
"There have been two cases of mad cow disease in the United States, one from Canada," Nelson said in a Senate speech. "Statistically, it's nonexistent, in terms of the mil­lions of head of cattle that are sent to slaughter every year." 
Senators adopted, on a 72-26 vote, an amendment by Nelson prohibiting importation of Japanese beef until Japan lifts its ban. They adopted a similar, nonbinding measure by Sen. Wayne Allard, R-Colo., on a voice vote. 
Opponents of the amendment said trade decisions about food safety should be based on sci­ence, not on restrictions in Japan or other countries. 
"And when we expect trading partners to respect science, we should be willing to do the same," said Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa. "So I don't support depriving the Department of Agriculture with the funding it needs to make decisions based on sound sci­ence even while we need to send a loud and clear message to Japan." 
Japan's food safety panel issued a draft. report last week saying U.S. cows faced higher risk of exposure to mad cow disease than Japanese cows because of insufficient feed con­trols in the 1980s and 1990s, according to Kyodo News agency. 
Ground-up cattle remains ­leftovers from slaughtering operations -were used as pro­tein in cattle feed until 1997, when a mad cow outbreak in Britain prompted the U.S. to ban the feed industry from using cattle remains in cattle feed. 
The U.S. bans beef from all countries with confirmed cases of mad cow disease, including Japan. The exception is Canada, which resumed limited beef shipments in 2003 and live cattle shipments earlier this year. , 
Mad cow disease is also known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE. Eating infected beef is believed to cause variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a fatal brain disorder that has killed more than 150 people, mostly in Britain in the 1990s. 

Rodriguez to appear at inauguration 
Priest abuse survivors group opposed to Honduras priest's in-volvement in Notre Da1ne forum 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND -A Homan Catholic cardinal who once com­pared U.S. media coverage of the church's sex abuse crisis to Stalin and Hitler is traveling to the University of Notre Dame to speak Thursday as part of events surrounding the inaugu­ration of the school's new presi­dent. 
Cardinal Oscar Andres Rodriguez Maradiaga, the arch­bishop of Tegucigalpa, Honduras, will speak at the Notre Dame Forum, which has been started by University President Father John Jenkins as part of his inauguration as the university's 17th president. 
A prominent advocacy group for victims of sexual abuse planned to protest the cardinal's appearance at the forum, one of two high-profile gatherings of religion leaders in the state Thursday. 
Rodriguez and three other 

... we have. GE's LEXAN SLX body panels infuse plastic with pigment. reducing volatile organic compound emissions normally associated with conventional automotive paint. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to hatch your ecomagination through a career in engineering. finance, manufacturing, sores and marketing, human resources. or _ information technology. 
Last day for resume drop 
Thursday, September 22nd. See Go IRISH for details. 

ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit gecareers.com/notredame 
an equal opportunity employer 
imagination at work 
public figures, including former man on Third World debt with 
U.N. Ambassador John C. the International Monetary Fund Danforth, will discuss pluralism, and the World Bank. He also led the increasing role of religion in the Conference of Latin society and faith-based perspec­American Bishops in the late 
tives on public  1990s. Notre Dame  
issues. The forum is envi­ "It's about church  gave him an hon­orary degree in 2003.  
sioned  as  an  leaders who choose  By that time, he  
annual event. "The idea is to bring world  to make it even harder for victims  had inflamed contro­versy when, at the height of the priest  
leaders to campus, in various disci­ to report criminals . .,  sexual abuse scandal in 2002, he described U.S.· media coverage  
plines, to inter­ of the crisis as anti­ 
act with stu­ David Clohessy  Catholic, saying it  
dents  and  Survivors Network of  reminded  him  of  
reflect on their experiences," said organizer R. Scott  those Abused by Priests executive director  "Stalin and Hitler." When Catholic car­dinals gathered in Rome last April to  
Appleby, direc­ elect a new pope, the  
tor of the Kroc  president  of  the  

Institute for International Peace Survivors Network of those Studies. Abused by Priests included 
Rodriguez, a leading church Hodriguez among five leading voice on human rights, has candidates who would be served as the Vatican's point "morally unacceptable" as pope. 
The Survivors Network planned to distribute pamphlets outside the Notre Dame Forum calling attention to Rodriguez's record, said David Clohessy, the group's executive director. 

"He's made such hurtful and misguided comments about the crisis," Clohessy said. "He's had ample opportunity to correct them, and hasn't." 
Clohessy and Appleby were two of the four speakers invited to address the U.S. bishops on the scandal during a historic 2002 meeting in Dallas. 
"It's not about Jenkins or· Appleby or even Notre Dame. It's about church leaders who· choose to make it even harder for victims to report criminals," Clohessy said. 
Appleby said the Survivors Network would undermine its credibility by protesting. 
"There's plenty of villains to go around, and Archbishop Rodriguez is not one of them," Appleby said. 


A diversified technolo_gy, financial services. media company. 

Wednesday, September 21, 2005 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
\ 
-.,.· 



p
page 10 Wednesday, September 21, 2005 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bol( 779, Nom~ Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Nom; Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF CLaire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: R.ama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
· PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631~7471 
fAX 
(574) 631~6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EmTOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
· (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc.l@nd.edu 

:;.:·.=.·. 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631~8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrem, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoricy of the Editor in Chief: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. C'..ommenraries, letters and columns presem rhe views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conran information. 
Qumions regnrdirlg Observerpolicie:r ;;houl.d be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
• POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tk (.)b,;crv~r(USPS >?9l-4000) i• publi•htd Mondil)' thwugh Friday CX<c:pt durinj; -eum and. v.1:Caticm pt·riod:~.. A suhscriptinn 1o The Ob~r iJ $1()0 fu:r~lnt aca<kmi<: y<.u; $~5 f.:,r Oil( .s<"m$-a 
Th< Ohsc:N<r ;, publi•h«< '" POSTMASTER 
024 South (lining Hall &nd address corra:doru ro. 
Notre Dame. I!' 4o';S641779 The Dml"f\lef' 
Perio<lic11 pos~.g. paid at N.>!tt [);une PO. S..-77<i 
an<! addi1iono.l maili~ Qi'r.<u; 014 S<Mh Dining Hall 
Notr< Dame. ~~ 41\5"56-<1779 

The ()h~r,·c:r ~ " lltd)lhcr ofth~ A...-.ocWtcd. Pa.~. All rcpnxiuo-iun right:\ art­tescrvtd. 
TooAv's STAFF 

News Sports Kate Antonacci Kate Gales 
Lisa Schultz Kevin Brennan Joe Tron1be1lo Tom Dorwart Kaitlynn Riely Scene 
Viewpoint Ham a Alyssa Gottumukkala Brauweiler Brian Doxtader Graphics Illustrator Kelly MacDonald Meg Dwyer 




Three political ;no-brainers 
Although it is not a flaw unique to the U.S. political system, if you hap­pen to turn on C-SPAN for any length of time it is difficult to shake the feel­ing that replacing the House and Senate with a group of randomly select­ed junior high teachers, armed only with the man­date to govern by common sense, is anything but a good idea. They, at least, would understand the principle of compromise and have a grasp of our nation's priorities, rather than govern­ing by calculated dogma as both parties do today. 
In this spirit, I have outlined three "no-brainer" solutions to a set of con­temporary political problems that exemplify the degree to which com­mon sense is absent from politics. Sadly, you are nut likely to see any of these actions taken in the near future, possibly for no other reason than that they make too much sense. 
Strip state legislatures of the power to draw electoral districts. 
State legislatures, because they receive little media scrutiny and also because, frankly, voters rarely care what their states are doing, are sig­nificantly more partisan than Congress, and the parties exploit this lack of oversight to their political advantage. The usc of statistical com­puter analysis on Census data and voting records has modf~rnized the art of gerrymandering (originally con­ceived to disenfranchise black voters), allowing a party in control to draw electoral districts with a preeision that almost ensures that party's suc­cess. The effects of this cheating on the incumbency rate of the current Congress have already been dramatic. 
In retrospect, the idea of permitting partisan state legislatures -with a vested interest in the outcome of elec­tions -to draw districts is critically 

Lance Gallop 

Tidewater Blues 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Stop wearing yellow 
Your Sept. 20 "Sea of Gold" article eaught my 
and is embarrassing as "The Shirt." The official attention. While I was surprised by the article's school eolors are Blue and Gold (you know, title, I was even more shocked by the numerous "gleams thy Gold and Blue ... "). 
references to gold in the article itself by Notre Dame students. That shirt is YELLOW! I know the students at Notre Dame are smart, so c'mon. Gold is the color on the team's helmets. That shirt is yellow like the eolors of Michigan, LSU and Iowa. In fact, when I attended the Notre Dame-Michigan game at Michigan on Sept. 10, the Michigan student section had the same color shirts. 
From where I was sitting in the southwest cor­ner of the Stadium,. it looked absolutely horrible 
OBSERVER POLL 

How many inaugural events are you planning to attend? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.1n. at www.nds1ncobserver.com 
flawed. Steps should be taken imme­diately, either at the state level or 
nationally, to reassign this power to independent, nonpartisan bodies 
before further harm is done to the American political system. 
Divide up NASA. 
I do not pretend to be one of those shortsighted people who claim that all space exploration is a waste of time and money. However, it is quite plain that NASA, in its present form, has reached the end of its useful life, and needs to be radically re-envisioned. 
Government funded space explo­ration exists, ostensibly, because it is beyond the economic reach of any other group, and because of legiti­mate defense interests. However, in the past decade, development of pri­vate, commercial low-earth space flight has flourished, with several major players and private investors willing to gamble on space travel. At the same time, mismanagement of the Shuttle, and the high-cost low-gain International Space Station (ISS) have shown that NASA's current approach to space is broken. 
The scientific and defense commu­nities, as well as taxpayers, would be better served if NASA were split into several focused organizations, placing deep space exploration and smaller projects under the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Aministration, the Defense Department or in universitins through the National SciBnce F<wndation; creating a funding pro­gram to promote commercial space flight; and using money now given to the Shuttle program and the ISS to fund a leaner organization focused exclusively on long-term lunar or Martian exploration. 
Heserve capital punishment exclu­sively to the federal government. 
Granted, capital punishment is a complex and sensitive topic that can­not be fairly covered in 200 words. Nonetheless, I have become convinced that the death penalty it is not a power that can or should be entrusted to the states, but rather one that must be reserved to the federal government 
Submit aLetter 




to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
In our stadium our tPam wears blue home 
jerseys. The Shirt should be blue. Period. I hope that "Thn Shirt" president next year corrects this. It's going to look pretty silly on s(~pt. 16 next year if the student section is dad in yellow shirts. 
Mike Kamradt alumnus Class of I 992 Sepr. 20 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"!The a_qes oj] seven to eleven is a 
huge chun!C oflife, full of dulling
and forgetlzng . ... As our eyes
slowLy become accustomed to 
sight 1hey .armour the11Jselves 
·agamst wonder. 
Leonard Cohen Canadian poet 
alone. 

Given the disproportionate concen­tration of executions in a handful of states, it is plain that standards of prosecution and warrant for capital crimes arc not uniform, nor do all states give equal financial resources and legal oversight to capital cases. Different states have different mind­sets, standards and goals in their management and implementation of the death penalty. 
It is patently ridiculous, and mocks any reasonable definition of equal protection, that the local biases of a particular community should be of significance in determining whether a person lives or dies. Likewise it is unjust that vastly different resources and legal protections are allocated to equivalent cases in accordance with local whim. Reserving the death penalty exclusively to the federal gov­ernment would ensure uniform stan­dards, make available the highest level of judicial oversight, raise all death penalty cases to national scruti­ny and ensure that adequate financial resources are available for each case. 
This only scratches the surface as far as political "no-brainers" are con­cerned. Space does not permit me to discuss creating uniform national pri­vacy legislation, granting Hawaiian natives the same legal status as American Indians, banning prescrip­tion drug advertisements, renaming Columbus day, reforming the patent system, standards for electronic vot­ing machines or any of the other obvi­ous and necessar~:csolutionsj.o con­temporary issues that are currently sitting in limbo. 
All I can say is that it is a pity that our leaders lack the common sense to see them. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of Notre Dame. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at comments@tidewa­terblues. com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

U-WIRE 


Education vs. politics 
It's nice to see Democrats finally quieting down now that they've been forced to accept the fact that nothing in the country will improve for at least three more years. 
Sure they've got the Katrina debacle to moan about with the sane and helpful Jesse Jackson shouting about Eric racist hurricanes and one more Strand chance to gripe about the 
Illinois State
Supreme Court confirmation of 
University
John Roberts, but lately it has 
The Daily 
been pretty obvious that no one is 
Vidette
paying much attention. Instead the focus is on the GOP. 
It should be no secret that the Republicans seek a monopoly. They are very open about it, now in con­trol of all three branches of the federal government and representing a majority of state governments. They also dominatf1 mainstream news outlets and are now dead set on taking down public radio, which has been accused of becoming a left-wing institution aligned with the liberal agenda. You'd think this would be good enough, but we all know that when it comes to Republicans enough is never enough. 
So it should br a surprise to no one that the GOP is now poising itself to take on the last major insti­tution in the country still explicitly swinging to the left: The university. 
Whether you're willing to admit it or not, the realm of academics does seem to invite a liberal agenda. 
In some conservative eyes this is seen as a major problem. According to Harper's Magazine, "National conservative groups now spend 35,-mil­lion dollars each year on student groups dedicated 
to fighting their campuses' leftward tilt." 
(I'd like to pause here before launching into the issues and say that I am of the opinion that claim­ing to be solely a Republican or a Democrat is truly a confused way to go through life. I understand possessing tendencies, but know that at any moment a sudden complication in your life could force you to act or think in ways that contradict everything you thought you believed in.) The debate between education and politics begins rightfully in a place of duty. asking the question: What is the main function of the university? 
Easy answer: education. 
But this is perhaps too easy because in the age we are surviving in, texts and materials exist in an overwhelming abundance, leading to the question: Well, what should education consist or? In a politi­cal science class of 250 students, should the con­centration be affirmative action policies or border regulations? Foreign p()Jicy in the Third World or the economy as a reflp,ction of tax relief'? Most of the time these derisions are left up to the professor. 
This bothers some Republicans who know better than anyone that the general public is an easy bunch to persuade. They argue that allowing a biased, subjective professor to control Classroom material and in many circumstances, ideology, is a mistake. Instead, opponents say that a university supported by public tax dollars should speak for the public as a rule, meaning that the educational research produced by a particular institution should reflect the ideas and opinions of the popula­tion as a whole. 
Aside from being impossible, this is also politiciz­ing education. Once the main objective of the uni­versity becomes political correctness, the focus can 
no longer be truly on education -the analytical and responsible seeking of truth and knowledge from textual materials, both academic and social. This should be the objective. And as long as this is the objective, subjective bias should never be the reason one view prevails over another. 
But a problem emerges when professors usc their classroom as a platform for their political opinions. This is not to say that individual thought is damag­ing to students (indeed. we are half the problem), but students are often very quick to accept a pro­fessor's ideas as their own. Too often students look to professors for "correct answers" to questions which have no correct answers. What usually ensues then is a pathetic regurgitation of the pro­fessor's ideas. 
This is exactly what the GOP is worried about. If our universities keep churning out liberal conspira­cy theorists lapping at their hardened, Democratic professors' ideologies. who'll ensure the Republican stronghold on the country? What should be done? 
Affirmative action is not the answer. It never was the answer. Instead. students, the most vital demo­graphic in this debate who were curiously left out, must take on the responsibility. Liberal or conser­vative, Democrat or Republican, students must learn to be able to hear all sides and decide for themselves what they think, even if it means choos­ing neither. This is education. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 20 issue of The Daily Vidette, the daily publication at Illinois State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Seniors should be ashamed 
A win would have cured all, and after three days to recover mentally, it's stand out more that the red shirts from Nebraska if that debacle were to be time to address the feeling of sickness I had as I entered the stadium to see the relived. I cannot remember when the freshman had more of a clue for their Senior and some of the Junior student section wearing green T-shirts. first home game than the seniors. 
Embarrassing! . I don't care if you buy "The Shirt," but at least support the current team and 
None of the current students know another Shirt color than green, but in fact staff, and not the old one. The green ~hirts may return next year when two years ago was the first time we wore green when MSU was at home. Michigan comes to town, but for now bury them until hoops season. Previously The Shirt color changed from various shades of Blue and Green, GO IRISH, BEAT HUSKIES!!! depending on the alternating home games of Michigan and MSU. But for some reason, green became associate with the Ty era (remember the cursed green David Bucolo jerseys against BC?). alumnus 
The Ty era is over and there's a new sheriff in town ... GET OVER IT! Support classes of 1997, 2003 Weis and the team and move on. The gold shirts looked awesome and would Sept. 20 

Thanks for Katrina help 
On behalf of the Alliance for Catholic Education, especially those ACE teachers who serve in the Gulf Coast area. I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to the entire Notre Dame community for your gtmerous outpouring of donations and prayers over the past few weeks. Hurricane Katrina devastated the Mississippi coastline where seven ACE teachers work. and daunting challenges face their schools as they clean up and. in some cases, rebuild. Neighboring dio­ceses have taken into their schools thousands of displaced students, as the entire region seeks to respond to this crisis. Your generous contributions and solidarity mean more than you may know to all of us associated with ACE. 
Special thanks to Student Activities and to all the volunteers who helped to collect and count money during Saturday's game. Your efforts helped to raise almost $200,000 for hurricane relief, one quarter of which has been directed to ACE to distribute to desperately needy Catholic schools in the Biloxi area. Many thanks also to Father Warner and Campus Ministry, who allocated one-half of the campus offertory collection two weeks ago for ACE to distribute to the schools it serves. These funds are being augmented daily by contributions from 
ACE graduates and others to our hurricane relief effort, donations that already total over $30,000. 
We pledge to work dosely with local leaders to dired these gifts to the schools with greatest need. Above all, parents along the Gulf Coast want their schools to reopen as soon as possible to bring comfort and stability to their children's lives, and your gifts and efforts will help many achieve this goal. The entire Notre Dame community can take pride in our ACE teachers-their dedication to their students and schools brings hope to a community that has. from the program's inception 12 years ago, welcomed and supported our teachers with incredible hospitality. Our love and prayers are with them in the difficult times ahead. 
John Staud Director of Pastoral Formation and Administration Alliance for Catholic Education Sept. 20 
THE OBSERVER 
E
page 12 


Wednesday, September 21, 2005 

DVD REVIEW 
First season of 'Lost' 
highlights tense new show 
Each episode is presented in the 
By SEAN SWEANY 
widescreen format used especially for the Scene Critic 
ABC High Definition broadcasts. This for­
mat makes the show seem almost like a 
Four, eight, 16. 23. 42. film, especially since the production is so 
For any fan of the hit television show similar to a big-budget Hollywood film. 
"Lost," these numbers are shrouded in The quality of the picture is solid, allow­
mystery and significance. Fans must add ing viewers to enjoy the beautiful and 
one more number to this list: seven, as in exotic landscape of Hawaii, where the -the number of discs in the complete first­show is filmed. 
season DVD set of "Lost." The night scenes and the deep greens 
ABC's "Lost," a winner of six Emmy and blues of the jungle create a dark, 
Awards, joined "Desperate Housewives" shadowy world, so a darkened room is 
in taking television by surprise last sea­ideal for getting the best viewing condi­
son and becoming one of the hottest tions, not to mention the most suspense 
shows on the air. The pilot episode began in the tension filled moments. 
with the crash of an airliner traveling The DVD runs in Dolby Digital 5.1 
from Sydney, Australia to Los Angeles, 1Surround Sound and is impressive on 
Calif. • home theater systems for action scenes
1
Th~ rema]ndet 'of tYl~ ·season. tells the and' the haunting and dramatic score by 
story of 48 survivors trying to collect 'Miehael Giacchino {"The Incredibles"). 
themselves from the still burning wreck­This DVD set comes loaded with special 
age and to figure out where they are. It is features about the making of the series. 
soon revealed that the plane was 1,000 There are four commentaries by produc· 
miles off course when it crashed, so there ers and actors for the pilot episode and 
is no one looking for the survivors. the episodes "Walkabout," The Moth" 
If this sounds like "Survivor" plus and "Hearts and Minds," each on their 
"Gilligan's Island," fear not, because respective discs. 
"Lost" takes a radical, almost sci-fi The bonus materials on disc seven are 
departure by introducing a mysterious divided into three parts. "Departure" 
and deadly beast in the jungle, a crazy gives viewers a sense of the extreme 
French woman who has been transmit­amount of effort it took to produce the 
ting an SOS message from the island for pilot. For example, producers bought an 
16 years, polar bears, the strange old Delta Airlines plane and subsequently 
sequence of numbers mentioned above, destroyed it to look like the crashed 
the mysterious "Others" on the island Oceanic jet. 
and plotlines for each of the characters "Tales from the Island" is comprised of 
that somehow relate to the mystery of the behind-the-scenes looks at several 
whole ordeal. Each episode uses flash­episodes, including a hilarious visit to the 
backs to focus on the back story of a dif­set by Jimmy Kimmel. Finally, "Lost 
ferent, individual character in the large Revealed" features never-before-seen 
cast, which is composed of mostly character flashbacks and deleted scenes. 
unknown or supporting role actors. The deleted scenes are not organized by 
Jack {Matthew Fox), the doctor on the episode, however, so it is difficult to 
island, is the leader of these characters, determine when some scenes were 
although series creators J.J. Abrams meant to air. The special features for this 
("Alias") and Damon Undelof ("Crossing DVD set are above and beyond most tele­
Jordan") admit they initially planned to vision DVDs today. More than three hours 
kill Jack in one of the early episodes so await eager fans, but there is a sense that 
the lovely Kate (Evangeline Lilly) could much more material could have been 
lead the survivors. included, as well. 
Veteran actor Terry O'Quinn ("Alias," Overall, this complete first season of 
"The West Wing") marvelously plays "Lost" is a must-have for any fan of the 
John Locke, by far the most mysterious show. "Lost" has been so successful 
survivor of the crash. In addition to these because it is different from the rehashed 
three lead characters, there are many crime or legal dramas that premier every 
other talented actors including Dominic season, and anyone who picks up these 
Monaghan ("The Lord of the Rings DVDs will quickly find this as true. A 
Trilogy") and Naveen Andrews ("The close viewing reveals new secrets about 
English Patient"). While the mystery and the characters and the island that eager 
supernatural nature of the island are the fans hope will be revealed in season two. 
big draws of the show, the believable per­
formances of all the actors and the strong Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
writing from Abrams and Lindelof carry 
the series. 
These DVD'i are a 

must-have for any 
"Lost" fan looking for 
hidden clues about the 
island as well as those 
who simply enjoy tnlevi­
sion without the annoy­
ing r.ommerdals. The 24 
episodes arc spread out 
over the first six discs 
with most of the special 
eontent on disc seven. 

'Losr' ON CAMPus 
net even before the pilot episode aired By SEAN SWEANY last fall trying to figure out all the clues Scene Writer about the island and the characters. The 
most popular topics "Lost" fans like to Everything happens for a reason. theorize about appear to be the hatch, For fans of the television show "Lost," the mysterious beast on the island and 
some of those reasons will become clear­John Locke. er tonight during the Season two pre­Many people have no idea what is miere on ABC at 8 p.m. Thanks to the inside the hatch, while guesses for the success of the first season and the fact monster range from "voodoo spirit" to that nearly all the mysteries of the show what sophomore Manpreet Sakaria calls remain unresolved, ABC decided to a "mental construction from the fear of greenlight a second season of the sus­the castaways." pense/action drama. Most people ·agree that John Locke, 
Viewers across the country and cam­who was paraplegic before crashing on pus will tune in anxiously to dive back the island, may be the sanest of any of into the captivating and supernatural the survivors even though he externally story of the island and its inhabitants. appears to be a crazy man of faith. A 
While "Lost" is not as ingrained in more recent fan of the show, junior campus pop culture as "The O.C.," it has Michael Spond, ven.tures only one guess a large group of fans and fanatics at about the whole second season. Notre Dame. Some fans, like senior Katie "I can assure you that more people will Rossi, have been watching since the very die," Spond said. beginning. Few people know what will happen on 
"It's really different from everything the island when we rejoin the castaways else you see on TV," Rossi said. "Lost" later tonight, but the Internet will really is quite unlike other shows on tel­undoubtedly come alive once again with evision since the mystery is not about speculation about season two. Exactly murders or legal cases, but the island what is at the bottom of the hatch? What and castaways. will become of the men on the raft after 
Plot twists and even double twists are it has been destroyed? Will Kate finally the name of the game in "Lost" and help get together with Jack? Who are "the keep the show unpredictable and fresh Others" on the island? Will the dreaded each week. Sophomore Zach El-Sawaf monster finally reveal itself? Will these has also been watching the show for a poor people ever get off the island'? long time and enjoys this complexity, For those eager to learn a hint, several along with the show's acting ·and writ­people will make a trip to the bottom of ing. the hatch in the first episode, and in the 
"Things happen at every turn that are possibility more castaways may be unexpected, but not what you would added to the group soon, the original least expect to happen," said El-Sawaf. survivors of Oceanic flight 815 will dis­
The unexpected yet believable nature cover they are not the survivors they of the show makes it hard for fans to thought they were. guess what will happen next -but also No matter what happens, "Lost" fans fun to try. Producers remain tight-lipped can rejoice in the arrival of a new sea­about what will transpire, but they son and try to find a comfortable spot on promise the show will continue the plot the edge of the nearest chair. twists in the second season. Hundreds of fan Web sites sprang up across the inter-Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of lost-media. com Anchored by a solid ensemble cast, great writing and high production values, "Lost" became a hit in Its first season. It won the Best Drama Emmy this year. 


Wednesday, September 21, 2005 page 13 
How 'losT' FOUND AN AUDIENCE 
By SEAN SWEANY Scene Writer 
A man wakes up alone in the jungle. He is wearing a tattered suit with bot­tles of alcohol in the side pocket. After struggling to his feet, he runs through the jungle to a tranquil beach ... until he turns to find an inferno of plane wreckage filled with injured survivors and even more dead people. After a long day of helping the wounded. this man is sitting down to await rescue when he hears a primal, bellowing roar from the jungle. 
Welcome to "Lost." 
The show that took television by storm last fall has built a near cult-like following among its fans in a very 
short time. In an age of built from this
When: Wednesdays, 8 p.m. 
reality shows and tired withholding of
Channel: ABC 
spin -off series from net­information can
Starring: Matthew Fox,
works, many wonder how last anywhere
Evangeline Lilly, Dominic 
"Lost" became such a suc-from a few min­
Monaghan and Josh Holloway 
coss.,..,,_ . ..... 
The answer is really quite simple: "Lost" is the modern master of suspense. Creators have found a way to generate sus­pense that rivals or at least emulates the style of Alfred Hitchcock and leaves viewers craving more and more. 
"Lost" began as a show entitled "Castaway: The Series" and was sup­posed to be about the survivors of a plane crash on a deserted island. 
This eopy of the almost dead "Survivor" series was modified when 
J.J. Abrams ("Alias," the upcoming "Mission Impossible 3") and Damon Lindelof ("Crossing Jordan") were brought in to fix the story and script. 
These two came up with the idea of a mysterious island and subplots for each character that are related to the 
·story of the island. Abrams and 
Lindelof chose to combine theatrical production values with top notch tele­vision writing in their show, and this decision paid off. 
Each episode of "Lost" focuses on one character using flashbacks. Viewers find out that every character had a very specific reason for being on the exact flight that crashed in the Pacific. 
Often, the characters' paths crossed in the real world without their knowl­edge. Details like this keep the audi­ence intrigued to learn more about each character. 
Usually, when a momentous event is about to occur for one character, the scene will change and focus on the 
problem of some 
other character.
Lost 
The suspense 
utes to a few 
episodes, creat­
ing real nail-biters for avid fans. 
The team working on "Lost" treads a fine line between too little and too much suspense. 
If there were not enough suspense in any given episode, it could feel like "Castaway: The Series" would have been. Too much suspense without any resolution would turn viewers away because the show would seem like one giant tease. 
One factor that helps the show tread this line is the large number of writ­ers involved. Every one of the writers, each with his own distinct flair, turns out exceptional work. 
The crew of "Lost" combines this writing with strong performances from the talented and attractive cast to create engaging, thrilling episodes 
:~-~\----~-;~::{5;_.-J_~_-,. ·--...~ ~~~~-,... --~~-. ..:-~i;..'t-~ ..
....,:·-· ...·.. .,.... 
_:. 

week in and week out. 
It is the characters that keep the show original and sustain it through an entire season. 
Most viewers find themselves emo­tionally attached to one character or another and are thus anxious to find out what will happen to him or her in each episode. 
All of the characters have flaws and sins no different from normal people, which viewers discover through the flashbacks. 
Knowing that these imperfections will not be fixed in the real world pro­vides a desire to discover how each character deals with their problems in the new society on this island. 
Close viewing will reveal that the camera never moves in flashbacks, whereas it moves freely on the island. This is meant to show a greater sense of freedom from past wrongdoings in the real world. 
Some critics have suggested that the mystery of the island is perhaps a manifestation of the sins and prob­lems of each character, and that when every character conquers these per­sonal obstacles, the mysteries will be solve(! and the show will end. 
Hegardless of the true purpose behind all the mystery and suspense on the show, one thing is certain: peo­ple are going to continue watching "Lost." 
The entire team from the first sea­son, which recently won the Emmy for Best Drama, returned to film the second season. Fans can rest assured that the writing, acting and produc­tion values of the show in general will continue along the same themes as last year. 
Those with tender nerves beware: several more months of spine-tingling suspense await. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
JACK THE UNDISPUTED LEADER AND RESIDENT DOCTOR ON THE ISLAND. · HAS TilE CHARISMA AND CONFI­
DENCE THAT HAVE BROUGHT THE SURVIVORS THROUGH MORE THAN 40 DAYS ON THE ISLAND. HIS BEUEF 
SYSTEM AND HIS SKILlS AS A LEADER WILL BE.TF.S'(ED AS :rHE ISLAND REVEALS MORE OF ITS SECRETS. 
KATE A FUGITIVE FROM THE LAW FOR 
UNKNOWN REASONS. KATE EXPERI­ENCED A FRESH sTART IN LIFE Al-TIR . lliE PlANE CRASH. AS SHE ASSUMFS .. MORE OF A MATERNAL ROLE/ON THE:·i 

ISLAND, HER STORY Will BECOME CLEARER AS HER RELATIONSHIPS DEVELOP \VITH THE OTHER CAST.. · A-WAYS. ESPECIALtYJACK 

SAYID FORMERLY A COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER IN THE IRAQI REPUBUCAN GUARD, SAYID IS ANOTHER NATURAL 
LEAOER ON 1HE ISlAND, WHICH OFfEN LEADS TO DISAGREEMENT WITkl JACK WHEN BIG DECISIONS_.-__ . 
'~'<~F"'IJB,.Ir)£.·HE WlLL BE EAGER'~·~~ ~f,W'' BECOMl<CLOSER TO FELLOW CASTAWAY-SHANNON IN THE SECOND SEASON 
·. LOCKE . ·.· _.· TilE MYSTERIOUS, CONTEMPlATIVE FORMER PARAPLEGIC IS VALUED FOR HIS IMMENSE KNOWLEDGE OF 
_·.-SURVIVAL SKillS, BUT MANY FEEL ... ··.UNEASY AROUND-LOCKE BECAUSE-OF. 
HIS ENIGMATIC AND ABRASTVE ...·. ATTITUDE. HE MAY BECOME VITAL TOX FIGURING OUT THE SECRET OF THE ISLAND. 
ClAIRE A SINGLE AUSTRALIAN WOMAN WHO 
HAS GIVEN BIRTH TO HER SON AARON SINCE THE PLANE CRASHED ON TilE ISLAND, CLAIRE FEELS THAT· 
SHE MUST RAISE THE CHILD HERSELF BECAUSE ·A PSYCHIC TOLD HER GREAT EVIL WOUW OTHERWISE FAll UPON HER 
CHARLIE IN THE RfAL WORLD, CHARLIE WAS A MEMBER OF A BAND AND A HEROIN ADDICf. ON TiiE ISLAND. HE HAS GROWN CLOSE TO CLAIRE WHILE RECOVERING FROM HIS ADDICTION. A NEWLY FOUND STASH OF DRUGS 
FROM A SfATUE COULD BRING , PROBLEMS TI·IAT WOULD INTERFERE .WITH HIS TASK OF HELPING CLAIRE. 
SAWYER A SLICK SOliTHERN CON-MAN Willi A VENDEITA, SAWYER WAS MOSfLY ALIENATED BY THE OTHERS ON THE ISlAND. HE LEFT Wffi-I TifE RAFf AND WAS SHOT BY TilE PEOPLE WHO DESTROYED IT. IF HE SOMEHOW RETURNS TO lHE ISLAND. HIS BAD BOY CHARM WILL ADD TENSION. TO 

Photo courtesy of lost·media.com 
KATE'S RELATIONSHIP WITH JACK
Jack (Matthew Fox), left, Kate (Evangeline Lilly), center, and Sawyer (Josh Holloway) return for more twists, secrets and surprises in the second season of ABC's hit drama "'Lost," which premieres tonight at 8 p.m. 

THE OBSERVER 
E
page 14 


Wednesday, September 21, 2005 





Fall fillll lllagic 
From a new world to a different universe, four films to watch for this year 


Tim Burton's Corpse Bride (Tim Burton, Sept. 23) 
Its wide-release just around the cor­ner. Tim Burton's second film of the year is also his second collaboration of the year with Johnny Depp and his second foray into stop-motion animation. 
"The Nightmare Before Christmas" (1993) was directed by Henry Selick, but the fingerprints of writer/producer Burton are all over the final product. Burton. along with Mike Johnson, helms this film, which is probably a good thing. 
Longtime musical collaborator Danny Elfman is once again onboard -defi­nitely a plus, as Elfman's songs were one of the best aspects of "The Nightmare Before Christmas" and "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory." 
Early buzz on "The Corpse Bride" is positive, as it looks to replicate the suc­cess of "The Nightmare Before Christmas." Unlike "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory," which was average at best, "Tim Burton's The Corpse Bride" looks to have more personality, though it should be equally stylized. 
Hopefully, it has the elements of the best of Burton's films: a little bit charm­ing, a little bit creepy, a little bit brilliant. 
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (Mike Newell, Nov. 18) 
Another Harry Potter film, another director. The hiring of Mike Newell as director seems like a retreat on the part
,· of Warner Bros. after the mixed reaction to the artsier, more cinematic tendencies of Alfonso Cuaron. Newell is a questionable fit for the lat­est entry in the series. as "Harry Potter 
S T 0 R Y B y B R 
and the Goblet of Fire" is darker and more sinister than its predecessors, and the director's previous credits include "Enchanted April," "Four Weddings and a Funeral" and "Mona Lisa Smile." 
Nearly all of the key actors are return­ing, including Danielle Radcliff as Harry Potter himself. Ralph Fiennes as Lord Voldemort should be brilliant, as the mere mention of the name and the role evoke shuddering memories of the Nazi Goeth from "Schindler's List." 
The film follows Harry's fourth year at Hogwarts (the school for wizards) and his participation in the Tri-Wizard Tournament. The book marks the turn­ing point in the series, so the film should follow suit and serve the same function. 
Steve Kloves once again returns as screenwriter, though this is allegedly his last Harry Potter film. By now, Kloves should have a good feel for how to write a Harry Potter film, and since the previ­ous three got steadily better, it is likely "The Goblet of Fire" will be a greater improvement still. 
Yet Kloves and Newell definitely had their work cut out for them, compressing 734 pages into a mere 150 minutes. 
It remains to be seen whether or not "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire" will be a great film, but Howling's book series is so well-written and popular that it's impossible to think the film transla­tion will be a complete failure. 
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe (Andrew Adamson, Dec. 9) 
"The Chronicles of Narnia" is setting itself up to be "The Lord of the Rings" 
I A N DOXTADER 
for families. Based on C.S. Lewis' peren­nial book series, Andrew Adamson ("Shrek") looks to bring a strong directo­rial sense to his first live-action film. 
The former visual effects supervisor balances a young, inexperienced cast with seasoned support (Liam Neeson and Tilda Swinton), which should keep the film afloat. 
The film follows a group of children who crawl through a wardrobe into an alternate world, which pits the evil White Witch (Swinton} against the hero­ically mythical lion Asian (voice of Liam Neeson). As it is the first in the series, it sets up much of the action that occurs in later episodes. 
The big-budget fantasy film kick-starts the "Chronicles of Narnia" franchise, which means several more films in the same vein should be forthcoming. 
Like "The Lord of the Rings," "The Chronicles of Narnia" was shot mostly in New Zealand, but whether or not it can replicate that series' staggering world­wide success is another question. 
Will "The Chronicles of Narnia" res­onate as mythically as "The Lord of the Rings" or "Star Wars?" It's difficult to say for certain, but opening against "Harry Potter" should be a good litmus test for the success of the series. While the film will undoubtedly look good, its ability to make the story seem grand rather than silly remains to be seen. 
The New World (Terrence Mallek, Dec. 25) 
Any new material from reclusive auteur Terrence Malick is a cause for celebration. as "The New World," his first film in seven years, marks only the writer/director's fourth film since 1973. For those counting, that's less than a film a decade over the course of 32 years. Alfred Hitchcock, by comparison, made 48 films in the same span of time (between 1927 and 1959). 
While Malick's reputation rests largely on the strength of his first two films, 1973's "Badlands" and 1978's "Days of Heaven" (perhaps the most beautiful film ever shot);his skills as a visual poet remain peerless. He looks to bring that vision to "The New World." 
Even "The Thin Red Line," which was inconsistent and unfocused, had moments of genius scattered throughout. 
"The New World" follows John Smith (Colin Farrell) and his settlers as they land in America. Similarities to Disney's "Pocahontas" abound, but Malick seems to approach his material with serious­ness and reverence -a good decision, as the film avoids the treacly pitfalls of its animated predecessor. 
Apprehension about Colin Farrell in the lead role may prove unfounded. though the actor's previous foray into the winter season (Oliver Stone's abysmal "Alexander") demonstrated that he has difficulty carrying a film. 
Hopefully, Malick's skills as a writer and director will overcome any short­comings. 
At the very least, audiences can expect more visual beauty from one of the most aesthetically competent directors of all time. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
Ron (Rupert Grint), left, Harry (Daniel Radcliffe), center, and Hermione (Emma Colin Farrell stars as settler John Smith in reclusive director Terrence Malick's Watson) all return in "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire," coming In November. upcoming film "The New World," which will be released on Christmas. 
Wednesday, September 21, 2005 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Don't forget about MOVIES in the BROWNING CINEMA 
Caii631-FILM for a rec-orded list of this week's showings! 
GET YOUR IRISH UP BEFORE THE PURDUE GAME 
THE ORIGINAL AMBASSADOR OF IRISH MUSIC! 



TOMMYMAKEM 
AND HIS SONS 

THE MAKEM 

BROTHERS 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 30, 8 PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL STUDENT TICKETS: $15 
• 
Wednesday, September 21, 2005 

page 16 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

Sheffield, Yankees hang 12 runs on Baltimore 
runs. this year," Rockies manager
Colorado beats up on 

Baltimore rookie John Maine Clint Hurdle said. "We've still (2-2} didn't get an out in the got a lot of work ahead of us."

San Diego; Schilling, 

second inning, and All-Star sec­San Diego starter WoodyRed Sox dozvn Tampa ond baseman Brian Roberts Williams (8-12) was lifted also left in the second after his before he could get an out in Associated Press left elbow was dislocated in a the second inning, having collision with Bubba Crosby allowed nine runs and nine NEW YOHK -Gary Sheflield while covering first base on a hits. Combined with the six is not about to let his injured bunt. runs he gave up in 3 1-3 leg get in the way of the innings on opening day at Coors Yankees' drive for a playoff Colorado 20; San Diego 1 Field, Williams' ERA against spot. The San Diego Padres had Colorado this season shot up to 
Sheflield hit a grand slam and "one of those nights," a debacle 29.10. drove in six runs, Jorge Posada of a ballgame in which they added a three-run homer and looked nothing like a playoff Boston 15, Tampa Bay 2 New York kept the pressure on team. David Ortiz hit his AL-leading in a pair of playoff races with a Coming off three straight 45th and 46th homers and 12-9 victory over the Baltimore tight and impressive victories, drove in four runs to help Curt Orioles. the· Padres took a big step Schilling and the Boston Red 
The Yankees (87-63). have backward, allowing eight RBis Sox hang on to first place in the won eight of nine and climbed to Matt Holliday in matching AL East with a victory over the 24 games above .500 for the the most lopsided loss in fran­Tampa Bay Devil Hays. first time this season. New York chise history to the Colorado Manny Ramirez also homered remained a half-game behind Rockies. twice to drive in three runs and first-place Boston in the AL "Nobody got hurt," Padres join Ortiz, Trot Nixon and Jason East and moved within a half­manager Bruce Bochy said, try­Varitek with four hits for the game of Cleveland in the wild­ing to find a bright spot. "We Red Sox, who remained one­card race. got knocked out early in the half game in front of the New 
"This team is resilient," first round." · York Yankees, who beat Sheffield said. "We don't quit. Holliday hit two homers in Baltimore 12-9. Now we're starting to come into amassing his career high for Nixon homered and drove in our own." RBis. That total was the most in three runs, and Varitek had two 
A strained thigh muscle the NL this season, and tied the RBls as Boston rebounded from 
'forced Sheffield to miss four franchise record. Monday night's 8-7 loss to the games and has kept him from "It was kind of humbling," last-place Devil Rays, a setback playing the outfield since his Holliday said. "It's fun with that left the Red Sox clinging to return, but he was strong these type games. When you're their thinnest lead in the divi­enough to lead the Yankees to a on the winning side, it's fun. sion in two months. win on a night that unbeaten When you're on the losing side, Boston finished with 21 hits Aaron Small was not sharp. it's terrible." and tied an AL record with four. 
"The thing about Sheff is, Colorado matched a franchise players with four apiece. The first and watched the speedy Philadelphia's 4-1 loss at even if he's not 100 percent record with its 20 runs and tied Red Sox are the first team to Carl Crawford score from sec­Atlanta left the Phillies two he's still intimidating," Yankees the Yankees -20-11 winners accomplish the feat since ond base on Cantu's sacrifice games back. manager Joe Torre said. "You over Tampa Bay on June 21 -Minnesota did it against fly to deep center in the third. "It was a great game, .wasn't just feel he's going to find a way for the most in the major Cleveland on June 24, 2002. Ortiz has nine multihomer it?" Marlins manager Jack to get it done." leagues this season. The 19-run Ortiz hit two-run homers off games, one shy of the Red Sox McKeon said. "If you're a fan 
Small (9-0) allowed four runs victory was the largest winning Seth McClung (6-11) in the first record set by Jimmie Foxx in that wants to see a lot of excite­and 10 hits in five-plus innings, margin in franchise history. and third innings, giving him 1938. He has 10 homers in 18 ment and not much hitting and the shortest of his eight starts The loss, meanwhile, dropped home runs in three straight at­games against Tampa Bay this good pitching, you saw it this season. Benefiting from an the first-place Padres to 75-75. bats over two games and his season, while Ramirez has tonight. offense that has scored 36 runs That's still five games ahead of second consecutive four-RBI homered seven times against "They're all devastating but in his last four starts, he San Francisco in the NL West, game against the Devil Rays. .the Devil Rays. you've got to look on the posi­became the first pitcher to win although after this game, the The Boston slugger boosted tive side and say 'Hey, he his first nine decisions for the punch lines are sure to keep his major league-leading RBI New York Mets 3, Florida 2 (Burnett) did a great job and Yankees since Tommy John in rolling in about the so-called total to 140 and is batting .44 7 On his way to the outfield maybe he'll come back.'" 1979. "race" in that woefully weak with eight homers, 18 RBis and before Tuesday night's game, Burnett had not won a game 
"Every game is so magnified division. 13 runs scored during a 10-New York Mets left fielder Cliff in a month and had an 8.78 and so crucial right now," Small "Our objective is to get to the game hitting streak. His 46 Floyd bumped into Florida ERA in September. He was said. "It doesn't matter how you playoffs and play good base­homers are a club season Marlins starter A. J. Burnett. crestfallen by the outcome, a get it done as long as you win. ball," Bochy said. "We'll figure record for a left-handed batter "He said, "Y'all are in trouble game he said hinged on one They don't have to be pretty as that out once that happens." and tie Jim Rice for the second­tonight,'" Floyd said. "Then he bad pitch to Floyd in the sev­long as you get them done." Who starred for Colorado? most hit by a Red Sox in one pitches a no-hitter for six enth. 
But the win did not come eas­Who didn't? year. innings and I thought, 'You "It's not good, man," he said. ily. The Orioles got 18 hits, put Holliday homered onto the Ramirez followed Ortiz's first­know what? He's right."' "Every game counts. Obviously at least one runner on·in every left-field concourse and off the inning shot with his 37th The Mets overcame Burnett's this one hurts. Make a pitch to inning and forced the Yankees left-field foul pole en route to homer. Nixon's two-run blast brilliant start for a victory, Cliff Floyd in that situation and to use closer Mariano Rivera in his career night. Luis Gonzalez off McClung finished a four-run tying it on Floyd's RBI single in the ballgame is over in the a non-save situation. had four hits and four RBis, third. McClung allowed seven the seventh and winning it on ninth. You don't even have to 
"It was tough," Torre said. also a career high. Relief pitch­runs and seven hits in two-plus Mike Jacobs' two-out RBI single worry about it. One pitch, man. "Normally when you don't get a er Marcos Carvajal had his first innings. in the 12th. One pitch." 1-2-3 inning you don't come major league hit, a two-run sin­Schilling (7-8) allowed two The loss dented the Marlins' Jacobs drove in David Wright, away with a victory." gle in the seventh that made it runs and six hits, struck out wild-card hopes. who had doubled, with the win­
Alex Rodriguez hit his 45th 1 7-1 ... the list went on and on seven and walked one in seven Florida remained third in the ning run. homer, an opposite-field solo for the Rockies, who have won innings to improve to 2-3 in six wild-card chase, but with "It was awesome," Jacobs shot into the upper deck in as many games as anyone in starts since returning to the Houston winning 7-4 at said. "I was happy for the team. right, and Sheffield added an the NL West since June 1, but rotation on Aug. 25. The six­Pittsburgh on Tuesday, the It was a big team win. We RBI single in the eighth after still are deep in last place. time All-Star gave up a solo Marlins dropped three games pitched well and we had great the Orioles closed within three "We've only won 62 games homer to Jorge Cantu in the behind the Astros. defense.'' 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Souch Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

,-- FoR SALE 1 bdrm condo near ND. All appliances.$69,000. Call Kim Kollar  Riverfront Condominiums in Niles. Spectacular St. Joe River views. Condo conversion with new kitchens,baths,sliders and decks. Only 20 minutes to Notre Dame. One bedroom units $99,900. Two bedroom unit $149,900.  Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND game weekends. 7732182203 Furnished room w/everything except food. 3 blocks to ND. $450. 289-3397  HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAILABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS UP TO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO ND. FOR 06·07 SCHOOL YEAR.  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$: www.victorytickets. com BUYING & SELLING ND FOOTBALL TIX.  WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game. Call203·261·8717 Jim. PERSONAL  
574·280-8160.  Call Michael Kuhn of  CALL KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS •  CHECK MY PRICES.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
Single/married faculty/staff. Own a lovely home near ND  Keller Williams Realty toll-free S~l e66·84Q-2~ 11.  Remodeled House for Rent. 1 mile southeast of ND. 3 bed,2 bath $995/month.  OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315·5032.  273-3911. BUY SELL OR TRADE  Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  

for less than you pay IMMACULATE! 315-9463 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. or assistance, please call for rent. FoR RENT TICKETS TOP$$ PAID. Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 
Believe it! Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential A.M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 at 1-7819. Call Dale GREAT HOUSES (Jamison) condo 11/21/05 • 05/06. WANTED: For more information, 
(574) 243-9547 GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS Call Mary Anne Benedict 607·723· ND FOOTBALL TIX. Need 4 tix to any football game. see our bi-weekly ad Coldwell Banker. andersonNDrentals.com 7363. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. Call Jack 574-674-6593. in THE OBSERVER. 
---~­
-----------------• 
.. 
Wednesday, September 21, 2005 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
GOLF 


Woods searches for a President's Cup partner 
World's No. 1 player hopes to finally find a compatible teammate 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Va. -Tiger Woods has been paired with some of his best friends. 
He also has been paired with Phil Mickelson. 
In the seven Hyder Cup and Presidents Cup matches Woods has played since 1997, the U.S. captains have had no trouble finding him a partner for better­ball and alternate-shot matches. 
Finding one who fits is anoth­er matter. 
"Everybody wants to play with him," Davis Love III said Tuesday, searching for a reason why Woods already has had 14 partners in 2 8 matches. "Everybody gets their turn." 
Fn;d Couples likely will get another turn at the Presidents Cup, which starts Thursday at the Robert Trent Jones Golf Club. Woods and Couples played twice at Royal Melbourne in 1998 and were 1-1 as a team. The loss came on the 18th hole when Craig Parry chipped in from 50 feet. 
What makes for a good part­ner? 
"Being comfortable is the best thing about it," Couples said. "Everyone thinks they can play with everybody, and they all get along great. But when you're on the course, you have to know the guy pretty well because you're not going to win every single time you play, and you have to be able to say the right things and have some fun." 
Woods is supremely eomfort­able with Mark O'Meara, his best friend on tour. That didn't help them in 1997 at Valderrama -Woods' first Ryder Cup -when they went 1­2. 
Two other close friends are Notah Begay and Charles Howell III. Those are the only players with whom Woods was paired for all four team matches at the Presidents Cup -Begay in 2000 at RTJ, Howell in South Africa in 2003. Both times, their record was 2-2. 
The uncomfort­able side is 
times in the Ryder Cup and Presidents Cup; Jack Nicklaus and Tom Watson, who never lost a match. 
The search for a stable part­ner for Woods continues, and the record reflects futility. Woods has lost only one singles match in seven cups, yet his team record is a paltry 10-17-1. He has a winning record with only two players-Love (2-1) and Chris Riley, who won his only match with Woods last year at 
the Hyder Cup. 
"/ think it would be
Mickelson. U.S. Asked how many captain Hal Sutton cool to play with partners he has put them together the same guy.,, had in the Ryder for the first two Cup and matches last year Presidents Cup,
Tiger Woods 
at Oakland Hills. Woods guessed it "I felt like histo­golfer was 16. 
ry needed it. I felt like the fans need­ed it. And most of all, I felt like Phil Mickelson and Tiger Woods needed it," Sutton said. 
It proved to be a disaster. The best two Americans rarely spoke to each other in losing both matches. The lasting image was Woods trying to keep a straight face when Mickelson nearly hit 3-wood out-of-bounds on the final hole of alternate shot with their match all square against Darren Clarke and Lee Westwood. 
Woods also played with David Duval in 1999 when they were Nos. 1 and 2 in the world, an act of desperation by Ryder Cup captain Ben Crenshaw. They lost on the 18th hole to Clarke and Westwood. 
There have been partnerships over the years that have been tough to beat -Steve Ballesteros and Jose Maria Olazabal; Love and Couples, who have played together 10 

MSPS 
Asked for a rea­son why so many, he went blank. 
"I have no idea," he said. "''ve had some great times with my partners, trying to out there and win points. Unfortunately, I haven't \\On as many points as I'd like." 
His ideal partner? 
"A guy that makes a lot of birdies," Woods said. "If my partner makes a bunch of 
birdies, we're going to have  a  
great time."  
Even that might not make  a  

difference. Woods still recalls the time he and Paul Azinger shot 9-under 63 in a better-ball match at The Belfry and still lost to Clarke and Thomas 
VERA BRADLEY'S 
New Fall Designs are 
at-~ ~o-1~ ~.I.e 


FINE ART'S LECTURE SERIES 
Presents 
Hector Cantii 
"Empowering The Futrnre" 
By creator of the conric strip Baldo 
Wednesday, September 21 


Date: Time: Where: Cost: 
Bjorn. 
Even more staggering is his 0­6 record in better-ball matches at the Presidents Cup. 
"In better ball?" Couples said. "That's best ball? That's when you use his seven or eight birdies every round? That's pretty surprising. But again, I've watched a lot of it, and I think he's ready to change all that." 
To get an idea how many part­ners Woods has gone through, consider two other perennial cup players. · 
Love has played in every Hyder Cup and Presidents Cup since 1993 -11 events -and has had 13 partners. Mickelson has played in 10 cups dating to 1994, and he's had only 11 part­ners. 
Love played the majority of his matches with Couples. Mickelson has played at least five times with three players ­Tom Lehman, David Toms and Duval. 
"I think it would be cool to play with the same guy," Woods said. 

Maybe that would have hap­pened if a partnership paid off earlier in his cup career. After going 1-2 in the '97 Ryder Cup, Woods and O'Meara never played together in the next two cups. 
Woods and Love went 2-0 at The Belfry, but their latest part­nership ended in a 4-and-3 loss at Oakland I fills. 
Make yourself U.S. captain for the day. Who does Woods get as a partner? 
"Phil. They did good together," said Adam Scott of the International team, as the room broke into laughter. 
Stuart Appleby had another solution to finding Woods a partner. 
He was told only four Americans on this Presidents Cup team have ever played with Woods in cup competition ­Love, Couples, Mickelson and Leonard. 
"All the rest of them, I guess," Appleby said. 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
4 and 5 bedrooms on 3 levels of living all including: 
• Dishwashers 
• Washers and Dryers 
• ADT Security Systems 
*NEW MANAGEMENT SPECIAL* 
Only $210 Per Person For the first 1 0 Apartments Leased for the 06-07 School Year 
574-233-5704 or Nicole Soko@hotmail.com 
Bessette House of Discernment University of Notre Dame Congregation of Holy Cross Brothers of the Midwest Province 
Are you interested in spiritual direction? 
Would you like a place for solitude for a morning, an afternoon, a full day or a weekend? 
Are you interested in a directed one or two day personal retreat? 
Are you and a group of friends interested in guided reflection upon scripture or discernment of vocation? 
Contact Brother Philip R. Smith, CSC at 574-631-0995 
psmith@~brothersofbotvcross.com 



,. 

NOTRE DAME FORUM 
Thursday, September 22 @ JACC, 2-4 p.m. 
CONVOCATION Friday, September 23 @ JACC, 3-4:30 p.m. 
POST-INAUGURAL RECEPTION 
Friday, September 23 @ the Reflecting Pool of the Theodore M. Hesburgh Library immediately following the Convocation 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 












OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 19 Co.~v1PILED fROA<\ THE ()BSERVER'S \,YIRE SERVICES Wednesday, September 21, 2005 
NSCAA Men's Soccer poll 
team  record  prev.  
1  Indiana  4-0-2  1  
2  New Mexico  6-0-0  NR  
3  North Carolina  5-0-1  2  
4  Virginia  4-0-1  4  
5  California  5-0-1  6  
6  Maryland  5-1-0  8  
7  Akron  6-0-0  9  
8  St. John's  4-1-1  10  
9  Creighton  4-0-1  15  
10 11  Fairleigh Dickinson Duke  5-0-1 4-1-0  7 . 21  
12  Connecticut  4-2-0  5  
13  Santa Clara  4-2-0  13  
14  Missouri State  4-0-2  11  
15  Wake Forest  4-2-0  14  
16  Ohio State  5-1-1  NR  
17  Clemson  3-1-1  12  
18  Seton Hall  4-1-1  18  
19  NOTRE DAME  4-2-0  16  
20  Old Dominion  3-1-1  22  
21  Binghamton  5-1-1  20  
22  UC Santa Barbara  3-1-1  NR  
23  New Hampshire  5-0-1  NR  
24  Washington  4-1-0  NR  
25  UNC Wilmington  5-1-0  NR  

NSCAA Women's Soccer poll 
team record prev. 
1 North Carolina 8-0-0 1 2 Penn State 8-0-0 2 3 Portland 8-0-0 3 4 UCLA 7-1-0 6 5 Santa Clara 5-1-1 4 6 NOTRE DAME 7-1-0 5 7 Duke 6-0-1 7 8 Wake Forest 5-1-1 10 9 Boston College 6-0-o 9 10 California 6-1-1 8 11 Pepperdine 6-0-1 11 12 Florida State 7-0-0 16 13 Virginia 5-2-1 12 14 TerasA&M 5-1-1 14 15 Brigham Young 8-0-0 NR 16 Wisconsin 5-2-1 15 17 Florida 8-0-0 13 18 Connecticut 5-2-1 18 19 Cal Poly 6-0-2 17 20 Marquette 7-0-1 23 21 Teras 3-1;.1 21 22 Arizona 4-1-2 22 23 West Virginia 3-3-2 20 24 Yale 6·2-0 NR 25 Cal State Fullerton 6-2-0 NR 
MIAA Soccer 

team MIAA overall 
1 Calvin 3-0-0 4-1-1 2 Hope 3-0-0 5-1-0 3 Olivet 3+0 3-3-0 4 Alma 2-2-0 3-2·1 5 SAJNT MARY'S 2·1-0 3-3-0 6 Kalamazoo 1·2-0 2-3-1 7 Albion 0-2-0 D-4-0 8 Adrian 0-3-0 0-6-0 9 Tri-State 0·3-0 2-4-0 
around the dial 
MLB Cardinals at Reds 6 p.m., Fox Sports Midwest Orioles at Yankees 6:05p.m., Comcast Phillies at Braves 6:35 p.m., Comcast Cubs at Brewers 6:35p.m., Comcast Indians at White Sox 7:05p.m., Comcast 
NCAA FOOTBALL Bowling Green at Boise State 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 

The Sugar Bowl will be played in either Baton Rouge, La., or Atlanta after being forced out of the Superdome in New Orleans by Hurricane Katrina. 
Sugar Bowl officials said Tuesday they will know in about three weeks whether Louisiana has recovered sufficiently to keep the game in the state where it has been played every year since it was established in 1935. 
Tiger Stadium on the LSU campus holds almost 92,000 and would make an adequate game site, but the city of Baton Rouge has insufficient hotel rooms and infrastructure to host an event that would attract thousands on Jan. 2. 
That means New Orleans would need to be ready to house most of the fans. participants and media going to the game. 
"We are going to contin­ue to talk with city and state officials, everybody who will need to be involved in this process," Sugar Bowl executive director Paul Hoolahan said in a teleconference from Chicago with BCS officials. 
"This is totally about 
New Orleans.~· 
Atlanta already has given Sugar Bowl officials the OK to use the Georgia Dome, which hosts the Southeastern Conference championship game in December. 
That made Atlanta an obvious and convenient choice as a temporary home for one of college football's longest-running and most recognizable events. 
The SEC has a long rela­tionship with the Sugar 
Bowl,  having  sent  its  
champion  there  for  
decades.  
The  Peach  Bowl  is  

scheduled to be played in 
the Georgia Dome on Dec. 30, and the Falcons have an NFL game scheduled there on Sunday, Jan. 1, but Atlanta officials have assured the Sugar Bowl that those games wouldn't interfere. 
Ideally, though, bowl and BCS officials would like the Sugar Bowl to remain in Louisiana. 
"We want to be part of the recovery story for the state and the Gulf region," Bowl Championship Series commissioner Kevin Weiberg said. 
The game brings $150 million-$200 million in revenue to the state and city, Hoolahan said. 
IN BRIEF 

JaS!Ui\rS' Darius out for sea­
son after ACL tear 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -. Jaguars safety Donovin Darius will miss the rest of the season after tearing a knee ligament against Indianapolis. 
Darius tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee Sunday dur­ing a punt return, and the team said Tuesday he will have season-ending surgery. 
Losing the hard-hitting safety could be a big setback for Jacksonville's vaunted defense, which has allowed 24 points in two games this season. Four-year veteran Deke Cooper, who started 10 games for the Jags in 2003, will replace Darius. 
A first-round pick by the Jaguars i n 1 9 9 8 , Darius h as s t a rfe d 1 0 3 games and avnraged 80 tackles ovPr st>ven st>asons. He had a care('r-high 87 tackles and fiw interrnptions last year and hold!-> l'ranrhisP rn<"urds 
MLS with 7'JS tark!Ps <JIHI  l 1}  t;rkPm\ays. l>islwo..,, t'l'f'Pr!'IH'!'s to tlw husirwss ing tinw by l<•oking int(~ stProid usP  
!lisChicago at San Jose 7:30p.m., Comcast  injur·y  c"mvs  nParly  t\Vo district and tlw city's pn·f'Prrt•d styiP in sporh, Bonds t'f'"j)OI!OI'd: "Prl'tt~  
months afl•·r Ill' sigrwd  "  1hn·~·-~··ar ,,,. pizza. IIIUI'h, I think so~ YP<!h_"  

~·----------------------------------------............... ............. 
contract extension, a deal he desper­ately sought while being designated the team's franchise player for three consecutive years. Chicago names new WNBA team 
CHICAGO -With the city's famous skyline as a backdrop, Chicago's WNBA franchise announced Tuesday the new team will be called the Sky, with light blue and yellow as its col­ors. 
The team has been without a moniker since February, when the league awarded real estate develop­er Michael Alter an expansion fran­chise to begin play next year. 
• The organization wanted a name that was distinctively Chicago and conveyed a sense of' high energy, team CEO and president Margaret St!'nd!•r said. 
She jokNI that diseaniPd choicPs irwludPd tlw LoopstPrs and tlw I>PPp 
The group choosing the name wanted to avoid connections to the city's weather or the Great Chicago Fire, but struggled to come up with something apprQPriate. Bonds tells Congress, media 
and fans to forget steroids 
WASHINGTON -In the nation's capital on his first road trip of 2005, Barry Bonds questioned why Congress, the media and fans contin­ue to talk about steroids. 
"I think we have other issues in this country to worry about that are a lot more serious. I think you guys should direct your efforts into taking care of that," the San Francisco Giants slugger said Tuesday before facing the Washington Nationals. "Talk about the athletes that are helping Katrina. Ask yom·selves how murh money y'all personally donated and havl' h•~lped." 
AskPd wlwtlwr CongrPss was W<tst­
Wednesday, September 21, 2005 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS
' 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 


Belles win in five matches 

Dalby 
continued from page 24 
between playing midfield and defense throughout the year. 
"Greg has the ability to both defend well and also to be cre­ative in the midfield," Clark said. "So it gives him and it gives us that luxury of having someone that can pi ay two positions." 
In the team's opening exhibi­tion game against New Mexico, Dalby started at center mid­field, but went down with an injury at the end of the first half. In Notre Dame's next game against Michigan, Clark, concerned with the play of his back line against New Mexico, shifted Dalby to center back. 
Dalby stayed with the back four for the next five games, helping the Irish go 4-1 over that stretch. After moving back to center midfield during the St. John's game, Dalby remained there for Sunday's 1­0 win over Syracuse. 
Dalby, who was unanimously voted to the 2005 pre-season All Big East team, is one of tho rare in.dividuals who can play two different positions at a very high level. 
"No matter where you put him he is going to be effec­tive," junior midfielder Nate .Norman said of his classmate. "He's probably one of the few guys in the country that can be very successful at both posi­tions." 
When playing center mid­field, Dalby is mainly relied upon as the last line of defense before the back four. His team­mates insist, however, that he adds much more to the posi­tion. 
"Dalby brings more stability to the midfield," Norman said. "It gets Dalby around the ball a lot more, and he has good vision so he can find the open passes. He's able to challenge for a lot more ba~lls." 
Senior defender Dale Rellas, one of the team's other cap­tains, likes having Dalby play­ing in front of him in the mid­field. 
"When we're playing defense and we have trouble, we can always find him in the middle," Hellas said. "He's a great out­let to get our offense started." 
Rellas equally appreciates Dalby's value as a defender. 
"It's great to have him in the back because he's so solid," Rellas said. "You know he's always going to be there when you need him. And he's very vocal which is very important for us to in the back." 
Clark said Dalby's superior ball skills and creativity make him a significant improvement over the traditional "basher" style of defender. 
Dalby said he does not find switching between the two positions difficult because he has played in both spots throughout his life. Dalby played center midfield in high school and on his club teams. He has played center back, though, for the majority of his games with the under-18 and under-20 U.S. national teams. 
Dalby entered Notre Dame in the fall of 2003 as one of the most heralded recruits in pro­gram history. He was selected as the 2002 Gatorade National Player of the Year and was twice named the California high school player of the year. But Dalby never expected to be playing tw-o positions in col­lege. 
"I had no expectations to play midfield at all," Dalby said. "I came in as a cente-r back recruit, and I played cen­ter back for thf~ first half of the season." 
Dalby played center midfield for the second half of 2003, and for the entirety of his sophomore year. Dalby played mainly midfield this summer while representing the U.S. at the 2005 World Youth Championships with the under-20 national team. 
His teammates and coaches say that Dalby's willingness to change positions during games and the season is a reflection of his unselfish attitude and leadership capabilities. In addition to captaining the Irish in just his junior year, Dalby has also served as the captain of the under-18 national team and the under-20 national team this summer. Clark thinks that Dalby is continually called upon to lead his teams because of his great maturity. 
Norman, who also played with Dalby on the under-18 national team, said that Dalby is always held in high regard by his teammates. 
"I think people just tend to respect Dalby because he treats everybody on the field well," Norman said. "He never loses his composure. He's not making mistakes or getting flustered." 
Clark is unsure which posi­tion Dalby will play for the rest of the season. Dalby would like to settle in at center midfield, but mostly just wants to do whatever he can to help the team win. 
"I'd prefer to play midfield to be honest -just because you are kind of in the midst of things and you can be involved in the attack," Dalby said. ''I'm more than happy to play either one, though." 
Dalby's team-first attitude is what most impresses Clark. 
"He's such a team person that he'll do what is best for the team, and that's a big plus just on him as a person," Clark said. "He puts the team first rather than himself first. That's just Greg." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
In a match that featured everything, Saint Mary's got the only thing that mattered­the win. 
The Belles prevailed over Kalamazoo College Tuesday in a five-game nail-biter, 30-21, 30-25, 32-34, 16-30, 15-13. 
It was Saint Mary's sixth win of the season, matching last season's win total. It was also the Belles' first conference win of the year in three tries. 
Saint Mary's (6-7, 1-2 MIAA) dictated the play in each of the first two games, jumping out to a 2-0 lead. 
"We were very much in con­trol early," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Hick said. "We weren't the most energetic team, and it wasn't as crisp as I'd like to see, but it was suffi­cient to win." 
The Belles appeared to be cruising to a victory after put­ting together a quick 5-.1 run to tic the third game at 24. But on the final point of the run, setter Amanda David fell 

..... _ 
to the floor, writhing in pain . She sustained an ankle injury and limped to the sidelines. 
Without David, the lone set­ter on the roster, the Belles scrambled to make position changes. The team responded to the adversity, forcing a 32­32 tie. A miscommunication during a substitution, howev­er, led to a faulty rotation; 
fOOTBALL 

costing the Belles a crucial Shelly Bender had a big point. Kalamazoo won the block-kill to bring the Belles to next point to capture the within 11-10. She followed game. with another kill four points 
Despite the game three loss, later to put her team ahead Schroeder-Biek was proud of 13-12. Kristen Playko capped her team's play. the victory when she scored a 
"We really rallied after kill and hit a serve that was Amanda's injury," she said. not returned to capture the 
David returned early in match's final two points. game four, but the Belles Schroeder-Biek saw a killer could not muster any momen­instinct in game five that was tum. A 12-0 Kalamazoo run absent in the two previous 
gave the Hornets  games.  
a  17-4  lead.  "We played to  
Kalamazoo con­tinued to find holes in the Belles defense as  "We were very much in control early.··  win," she said. "We stayed aggressive and kept our commu­ 
the margin grew  nication going.  
to 27-10 before a 6-0 Belles run  Julie Schroeder-Biek Belles coach  We set a dard for  stan­our­ 

closed the gap. The rally fell short as the Hornets took the final three points. 
Schroeder-Biek blamed a mental lapse for the game four loss. 
"We needed to be tougher mentally in the fourth game," she said. "The injury forced us to shift people to different positions, so the girls were playing next to someone they were not used to. Still they are all teammates and have been playing together since August. I would have liked to see us adapt quicker." 
The Belles rebounded by becoming aggressive in the match's final game, scoring several big kills. 
selves." 
The win 
marked the sec­
ond consecutive match the 
Belles have won in five games. 
It was also their first home 
win of the season. 
Saint Mary's will have little 
time to celebrate their victory. 
The Belles have three more 
home contests this week, the 
first against Manchester 
College on Thursday. 
Schroeder-Biek spoke of the 
importance of using the 
momentum from tonight's win -throughout the week. 
"We hit that high right in the 
middle of a tough week," she 
said. "That win was huge." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 

McKnight's status is day-to-day 
Weis discusses ratio of passing and rush, Crum's development 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer . 
Wide receiver Hhema 
McKnight, injured in Notre 
Dame's 17-10 win over 
Michigan on Sept. 10, could 
play on Saturday against 
Washington, Irish coach 
Charlie Weis said Tuesday. 
"He's gone from not playing 
to day-to-day," Weis said. "So 
he's day-to-day." 
Fellow wide receiver Jeff 
Samardzija said that he can't 
wait for his fellow receiver to 
get back on the field after 
missing Saturday's game 
against Michigan State due to 
the knee injury. 
"Anytime you've got a guy 
like Rhema on the team, you 
want him playing out on the 
field," he said. 
Airing it out 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn threw for 487 yards on Saturday against Michigan State on 33-for-60 passing. Quinn also threw for five touchdowns, a school record, three of which went to Samardzija. Weis said he doesn't always want to throw 60 passes per game. But at the same time, he wants to do what is going to be the most successful in a given game. 

"I think you're always look­ing in the ideal world for a balance," he said. "You're looking for a balance. Now, I don't know whether the bal­ance is 50-50, 60-40. You usually don't want to be too tainted. But I can tell you right now, if you're winning a game running it on every play, there are less .bad things that can happen when you're running it than when you're throwing it." 
Back to the fundamentals 
Each week Weis says he wants the Irish to focus on going back to the fundamen­tals to improve from week to week. After Saturday's loss, this week is no different. 
"Any time you lose a game you have to identify what you feel are the things to get your mistakes corrected the fastest," Weis said. "It almost always falls back to the same thing that .if you're funda­mentally sound, you're tech­nically sound, you usually have a lot better chance for success. So, therefore, yn.u have to put the time into that rather than just doing prac­tice reps." 
Weis explained as an exam­ple that on offense, the Irish would be working on perfect­ing the three depths that a quarterback drops back, and timing that with a receiver's route. 
On defense, he used form tackling as an example of a fundamental that the team 
would focus on. 
"When you're tackling an elusive guy that's very nifty, one thing you can't do is just try to run right through the guy, because he'll make you miss," Weis said. "So you have to really wor~ on how to settle your feet and keep your hips even, to keep your balance low so when he goes to make that little juke move to make you miss, it's going to be a non-factor." 
Crum showing his talent 
Maurice Crum, Jr. has recorded 17 tackles and forced a fumble in the first three games, also his first career games after redshirt­ing as a freshman last year. Crum has filled the role of Apache linebacker nicely for Weis. 
"He's got good athletic abil­ity," Weis said. "It's a good thing that he's come along because that was one of the uncertainties we had coming into the season. With Corey [Mays) waiting in the wings at ·middle linebacker, Brandon [lloyte] being a known quality already, the one thing we really didn't know for sure was who was going to 9e that guy that you kind of put in space a lot. With his athletic ability, it's kind of put us in a position where right now he's no longer our biggest area of concern." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
---------------------------------------------~~-­
' . ­
Wednesday, September 21, 2005 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 
SMC GOLF

Wednesday, September 21st 



Belles conclude play
THEOLOGY ON TAP 
against Olivet today 
, 
presents Fr. BilllJes C.S.(~ .. & 1\'lr. Bill Purcell from the Center for Social Concerns ---wealth and the Christian Life--­C-M  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN DUBLIN, IRELAND Fall2006, SPRING 2007, AY 2006-7, SUMMER 2006 INFORMATION MEETING VVednesday,Sept.21,2005 6:30PM 102 DeBartolo Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2005 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2006-7 APRIL 1, 2006 FOR SUMMER 2006 Applications Available www/nd.edu/--intlstud  
Write Sports. Call 1-4543.  

By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
Today marks the beginning of the end of the fall golf season for the women of Saint Mary's, as the Belles will travel to Olivet this afternoon to compete in the first of two conference jamborees before the MIAA Championships in two weeks. 
These three competitions, the only three left on the Saint Mary's fall schedule, will determine the outcome of the MIAA conference for the 2005 season -and right now, the Belles are right where they want to be. 
After a distinctive victory at Calvin just a week ago, Saint Mary's is sitting on top of the rankings, a place the team has grown accustomed to since begin­ning its conference winning streak in 2002. The only MIAA team that has finished ahead of Saint Mary's in any competition this year is the host team of today's event. Olivet beat the Belles at Ferris State dur­ing the first event of the season, but the scoring did not affect con­ference standings. 
A lot of emphasis has been placed on Saint Mary's perform­ance in the NCAA tournament in recent years, but head coach Mark Hamilton made it certain from the beginning of the year that the team is not getting ahead of itself. 
"We don't talk a lot about NCAA in the fall," he said. "We concen­trate on winning conference, on 

Coach 
continued from page 24 
only familiar face on the Washington sidelines Saturday. Defensive coordinator Kent Baer, special teams coach Bob Simmons, offensive line coach Mike Denbrock, running backs coach Trent Miles and secondary coach Steven Wilks were all on Willingham's staff at Notre Dame, as well. Also on the Washington staff is former Irish punter and 2003 graduate Joey Hilbold, who is a defensive graduate assistant with the Huskies. 
"It definitely is strange to play against a couple coaches who recruited me, so it should be inter­esting," sophomore running back Darius Walker said. "The main thing I'm focused on is Washington, which is the most important game that we have. And the main thing for us this week is we need to work on what we need to do to get better and try to improve our overall game." 
One thing the Irish do have is the playbooks from last year's defense, run by Baer. Weis said he has used that to his advantage in preparing for Washington this week. 
"It helps when you have the playbook," Weis said. "You know, the playbook that Kent IBaer] hac;;, we have, so when they walk out the door, they can take everything else with them. When you have a copy of it, you have a copy of it. Kind of helps a little bit when you know the foundation of the play­book." 
Meanwhile, senior wide receiver Maurice Stovall said he remem­bers his old coac.h fondly. 
"He's a great person, a great guy, a great leader also," said Stovall, who played for making adjustments and getting 

better." 
The team has definitely had to 
make some adjustments this fall. 
After graduating three seniors last 
spring, the Belles needed players 
to step up and fill the gaps. 
Hamilton has been confident in 
this year's seniors to lead the way 
for the team. 
"[We have] two honorable men­
tion MIAA players in Megan 
Mattia and Nicole Bellino ... 
they've both had a lot of success 
and a lot of experience." Hamilton 
said. 
Mattia has had an especially successful season this year, finish­ing first for Saint Mary's in all of the team's events so far. At Calvin ·College last week, Mattia has post­
ed scores of 79 and 77 in the last -two weeks. 
Senior and co-captain Kirsten 
Fantom has· also made a big 
impact for the Belles this season. 
In addition, sophomore Katie 
O'Brien has finished in the top 
three for Saint Mary's in every 
competition so far. 
Today should not prove to be much of a surprise. The course is familiar, as are the opponents. The Belles have overcome tough competition against Division-[ schools and have made adjust­ments to get ready for the confer­ence championship. The Belles will tee-off today against all con­ference opponents for the first 18­hole round. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaOl @saintmarys.edu 
Willingham for three years. "Meeting with him in his office, he's helped me with things. We missed him early in the year when we were having those problems and issues with the coaching change, but we're past that now and focused on our season." 
Walker spoke of how .Willingham taught him things not only on the field but also off the field. 
"Coach Willingham was a very personable coach," Walker said. "He wac;; real personable with his players, which is what I liked about him. He taught you things off the field. I learned how to grow up and be a man. He was a very intellectual man. He always had wisdom every day." 
But each player, although hav­ing thoughts on Willingham, maintains it is still an important football game to be played. 
''I'm sure there will be some feelings-l mean, he was my head coach last year," Stovall said. "But at the same time, I don't see myself or any of the players or coaches thinking about this during the game." 
And fellow wide receiver Jeff Samardzija said he is ready for the football game. 
"We have the utmost respect for Coach Willingham and the staff he has at Washington, but I think looking at what we did last game, we're just concentrating on our­selves right now and what we can do to improve our team to get a win out in Washington," he said. 
"Hight now I think the team's real set on Notre Dame football versus Wa'ihington football." 
And Weis has no doubt his play­ers will be focused on the task at hand and not the familiar faces dotting the opposite sideline. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
~ 

-----------~---~--------------------------------.­

page 22 

'~ 
Chaos 
continued from page 24 
own half of the field. Cavanaugh quarterback Katie Dunn ran the option consistently and scored the final touchdown of the game, making the final score 24-0. 
Jloward coach Evan Walsh was still impressed with his team after the loss. 
"I am immensely proud of my team, especially the younger players," Walsh said. "If we can improve, we still have room for a very successful season." 
Next week Cavanaugh will play Badin and Howard will square ofT against Lewis. 
Walsh 12, Lewis . 7 
Julie Campbell's interception with less than two minutes remaining secured victory for Walsh Hall in the Wild Women's season-opening victory over Lewis Hall Tuesday. 
Campbell's pick came as Lewis was driving inside Walsh territo­ry, threatening to take the lead. Walsh quarterback Mary Sullivan then ran out the clock on the next three plays, sealing the vic­tory. 
The pick was the third time Walsh intercepted Lewis quarter­back Elisa Valdez, with Campbell claiming two. The other intercep­tion by Kristen Keve set up a 3­play, 15-yard go-ahead drive midway through the second half that ended in a one-yard touch­down run by Sullivan. 
At the half, Walsh led 6-0, but on the first play of the second half, Lewis struck pay dirt on a perfectly executed 65-yard hook and ladder play. 
Valdez dropped back and threw an 8-yard pass to Kara Bailey, who pitched it to tight end Jocelyn Moya. Moya avoided two tacklers and out ran the rest of the Walsh defense on her way to the end zone. Lewis then con­verted the PAT and led 7-6. 
On Walsh's ensuing possession, Sullivan found receiver Laurie Wasikowski twice for a total of 45 yards and Walsh seemed poised to recapture the lead. But on third and goal from the 10, Sullivan's pass was tipped and intercepted by Lewis safety Lauren Mullins. Three plays later, however, Valdez was inter­cepted by Keve on the Lewis 18, which led to Sullivan's score. 
"The interceptions killed us," said Lewis co-captain Kara Bailey. "We won the game for them." 

The teams traded possessions once until Campbell's second interception. 
On the second play of the game, Valdez was picked off by Campbell, who returned the ball to the 3. Walsh scored two plays later on an option run Molly Brenner. The PAT failed and Walsh led 6-0. 
· Both teams played good defense. Lewis contained the speedy Sullivan for most of the game, and Walsh held Lewis to two rrrst downs. 
"She's a great cornerback," Walsh head coach Brian Burkavage said of Campbell's performance. "She reads the ball well and breaks on it very well." 
"When we'd score the defense would feed off of us," Sullivan said. "When Julie made those interceptions we fed ofT of them. It was a team effort." 
Walsh faces Badin on Sunday while Lewis takes on Lyons, also on Sunday. 
Badin 12, Lyons 0 
The Badin Bullfrogs defeated Lyons to win their first game Tuesday night, as the second half was purely a defensive struggle and two early touchdowns proved to be the difl'erence in the game. 
Freshman quarterback Katie Hose llackney looked very confi­dent early, throwing a pair of touchdown passes in the first half. But in the end, it was the defense that solidified the victory for Bad in. It kept the Lyons offense on their heels throughout 
The Observer • SPORTS 

the contest, especially late in the game. 
"Our defense's experience real­ly showed through at the end," Badin captain Meg Charlebois said. 
Lyons, meanwhile, looked flat after a rousing 20-0 victory in its first contest.· 
"We definitely have to work out some offensive issues in practice before we play again," captain Katie Mackin said. The Lions are, however, still optimistic about their game on Sunday. 
"We have to move on and con­centrate on beating Lewis," Mackin said. 
Badin will face Walsh next, also on Sunday. 
"We're really psyched to play them," said Charlebois. "They should be pretty good but we're ready to take it to them." 
She hopes that the squad regains the form it displayed in the first half of tonight's game, when many different players contributed on offense. The Bullfrog touchdowns were scored by receivers Lizzie Shappell and Courtney Rains. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu, Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu and Francis Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
4 and 5 bedrooms on 3 levels of living all including: 
• Dishwashers 
• Washers and Dryers 
• ADT Security Systems 
*NEW MANAGEMENT SPECIAL~( 
Only $21 0 Per Person For the first 10 Apartments Leased for the 06-07 School Year 
574-233-5704 or N icole_Soko@hotmai l.com 
} . 
nicole_soko@ hotmail.com 


Belles 
continued from page 24 

seven minutes apart to pro­pel the Belles (4-3, 3-1 MIAA) in a come-from­behind win over the Comets (3-4, 3-2 MIAA). 
The two plays were twin beauties -two perfectly executed cross passes com­ing midway through the sec­ond half. 
Dubree controlled the ball in the right corner of Olivet's end and launched a pass over the heads of several Comets defenders to an open Courtney on the far post. Courtney timed her jump to perfection and headed the ball past the Comet goal­keeper for the 1-1 tie in the 54th minute. 
Then, to gain the lead, all they had to do was reload and repeat. The second well­timed cross pass .to header came in the 61st minute, and it was all Saint Mary's need­ed to take its third straight MIAA win. · DuBree said she was prac­tically willing the ball to find the back of the net as she sent it over the goalkeeper's box. 
"I didn't want to lose ­one of our team goals this year is not to lose on our home field," she said. "So, I didn't want to jeopardize that early. I just tried to get it in the back of the net." 
Olivet got on the board first when freshman Kelli O'Dowd brushed the ball against the back post past Belles' keeper Laura Heline on a header from a corner kick in the 24th minute to take the 1-0 lead. 
The Belles allowed five corner kicks in the first half, one which the Comets con­verted for the goal during a letup of the Helles' defense. 
Wednesday, September 217 2005 
The first part of the opening half showed the Comets _ dominating every aspect of the game, leaving the Belles to scramble to keep up. 
"We just didn't move well 
. -we looked a little slug­gish," Belles coach Caryn Mackenzie said of the open­ing of the first half. "I think when we threw Lauren Hinton on the field, the ener­gy picked up. The swing sort of occurred as a result of [Hinton'sl hard work up front, and we just kept building on that." 
Saint Mary's quickly turned it around, and the Comets were able to push the ball out of their defen­sive end only briefly for the remainder of the game. The Belles outshot Olivet 23-10 with their rejuvenated offense. 
The Belles were on the offensive throughout the entire second half, resulting in the two comeback goals. They showed great ball con­trol and zipped the ball around Olivet's defensive half with little Comet inter­ference. 
With the victory, Saint Mary's moves into third place in the MIAA standings, passing Alma College and Olivet. After a slow start to the seas·on, the Belles are on ' a roll and have no intention of stopping. 
"This is the second time I've seen us [come from behind to win]," Mackenzie said. "This team has the ability to do that. We don't tend to get really down on ourselves when we are behind. 
"In fact, they sort of dig their heels in and figure out a way to make it happen. It's just a quality, quality team. I'm really impressed." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

WVF.I PRESENTS 
........ 

·cvHSY ~s al the best poilntln the t.ifecycle of a baf\d: un-~ed. simply. prodvced and deserving of the hype for ·wn~ Is -~ qutte possibly -a nearly perfect a.fburn,~ -tNHbt:.letdCOft'l 
"New Yori<1S newest underground party pack Clap Your Hands Say Yeah is a band teetetiog on the fence of obscurity and stardom " -Unymi.X'tapct;,oom 
11BrOOktyn"s Clap Your Hands Say Yeah are here to rest rt'teir collec­tive arms around your shoukters and lead yoo back across the indie pop threshold Into a rare comer of sweet guitar rock that hums with fresh originality." ·rnanbc.eom 


W\111.ncLedu 

•' 
Wednesday, September 21, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JOCKULAR ERIK POWERS AND ALEC WHITE 

CROISSANTWORLD ADAM FAIRHOLM 

HE'#, '/OU 

I iHIN"­'jEAH, HAH~ 
J;:NOW WHAT. Pf:\~\ETAL-S WHAT A 
PA~tETAt...S 
A~ 'S\UP\l>, e.l <-1 , S\llf>tP A~ 50 \.-\AHA -rHfNu ~A l:>UM~, 
f'AR.\E.IAL-S HAHA. 

~·\···············•••;·;~ AF-.E. 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
... and I say 

to my esteemedto form four ordinary words. 
coneagues... 
YAMEL 
1 
rJ 
IRENACK 
j 

(] 
IN C.ONGI<ESS, YOU

I I r 
C.AN BE= THIS r=YEN
www.jumble.com 
IF YOU'RE NOT--­
KANNIP 

V I 'i 1 1 Now arrange the circled lettersk _.A to form the surprise answer, as L----L:....-u.::o........::.L..-....J---L-..J suggested by the above car-
Answer here: 

THE"[ I I X I I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' IJumbles: IRONY GLEAM PARLOR NIMBLE -· s Answer: When can evening clothes be seen? ­
EARLY MORNING 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS  36 Turned up  68 "Scream" star  
1 Stow  37 Jillions  Campbell  
5 Door sign at a saloon 10 Mil. training grp.  39 Imparts 42 Computer image 43 Bete  69 Two slices of a loaf 70 Degree­seekers' hurdles  
14 Author Bagnold 15 Ancient  45 Prevented from swelling, maybe  71 It goes tirelessly  
assembly area 16 Early Oscar winner Jannings  47 Collect splinters, so to speak 48 Office worker  DOWN 1 Galena extract  
17 Creation on the  who lost his  2 El Misti's range  
sixth day  cabinet?  3 Goddess of the  
18 Starchy tubers  52 Pyramid part  hunt  
19 Title girl of a 1953 million­ 53 They're caught in pots  4 Oscar winner O'Brien  
selling record  56 Soldier who lost  5 Stadium take  
20 Pianist who lost  his bed?  6 "Oh, golly!"  
her score?  63 Busting one's  7 Name for an  
23 Not mad  back  average guy?  
24 Saucy  64 Salmon River  8 They get the  
25 Cover girl who was replaced?  locale 65 Eurasian goat  show on the road  
32 W. W. II service  66 Delivery area  9 Dissed, in a way  
member 67 Corsica locale: 35 Dumbbell Abbr. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  10 Meltdown sites 11 Present opener? 12 A Turner  32 Fairy's prop 33 Soothing stuff 34 Salon creation  49 Nunavut native 50 Property transferrer  57 Harrow rival 58 Tough spot 59 Man Ray's  
13 Kiltie's group 21 Sore, with "off" 22 Cookery's Rombauer  38 Roasts, really 40 Mid-seventh­century year 41 "Get it?"  51 Spacey and namesakes 54 Tag 55 Canyon in the  genre 60 Punxsutawney name 61 Raises a stink?  
26 Smoke-filled  44 Zing  comics  62 Marked, in a  
room figure  46 Koln crowd?  56 Knock silly  way  
27 Flowery words·  

28 Like some For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a booms credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
29 Test conductors 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 30 Morales of "La Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
Samba" 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 31 Time to give Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young up? solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Gary Cole, 49; Sophia Loren, 71; Anne Meara, 76, Juan Pablo Montoya, 30 Happy Birthday: You've got what it takes to make things happen this year, so don't be afraid to put an idea you have into play. This is not the year to leave anything to chance. If you want something, go after it with everything you've got. Your ability to think on your feet will counteract anything that tries to stand in your way. Your numbers are 10, 14, 27, 29, 3 I, 43 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't let life's little aggravations get to you. Professional gains can be made if you let people see your talents in action. A partnership will lead to a very interesting opportunity. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Anger and frustration can be your demise. Ignore the people and situations that are causing you to make detours. Stay calm, cool and collected and you will surpass what everyone expects of you. ** * GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Dealing with institutions and financial, legal and health matters will do you some good. Summarize what has and is happening to get to the bottom of things. Clearing up these issues will put your mind at ease.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can rely on friends and family. This is a perfect day to talk about your concerns and tind solutions. The time for change is now, and once you have made the initial moves, you will feel much better about your future.**** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone or something is likely to get your dander up. Try not to lose control. The way you handle yourself will say a lot, so be smart and don't let personal issues interfere with your productivity. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This is a take-action sort of day. You will be surprised by the amount you can achieve and the response you receive for your accomplishments. You have a great opportunity to prove yourself, so take it.***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can take care of money matters today or lend a helping hand to an older relative. Your finances should receive a pick-me-up, so if someone owes you --this is the perfect day to collect. An aggressive approach will bring the highest rewards. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Spend a little time with the people you enjoy being with the most. Get involved in something competitive or challenging. Career moves will be beneficial. *** SAGITTARI US (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Everything should be about money, getting along with your peers and resolving work-related issues. The urgent feeling to get things out of the way may cause some problems with the people you are dealing with. Diplomacy will be necessary to get ahead. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): A chance to do something great for someone else will end up making you look like· a hero. Working with younger or older people will bring you great satisfaction. Keep things simple and you will keep within your budget. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Listen and observe rdther than taking stage­front today. You will be ridiculed for your lack ofpatience and lofty ideas. Work by yourself. Do your own thing and prepare to present your ideas when the time is right. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Partnerships can prove to be a wonderful thing. Your options will expand and the choices you have will allow you to show your creative versatility. Talking things over with the people you have to deal with will help solve problems that arise. **** Birthday Baby: You have spunk, intelligence and the ability to take on tasks that require endurance, spontaneity and a relentless attitude. You are capable of great things. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com .for fun. eugeniala~u·om for cun.fidential consultatiuns 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
...
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name---------------· 
Address _______________________________________ City __________ State ____ Zip______ 
-. 

. 
' 
' 
. 
' 
) 
' 
.' 
.. 
I 
\ 
' 
i 
. 
I 
' 
I
I. . 
I 
' 
I I
I 
; 
' 
' ' 
.. 
I 
. I ' 
Wednesday, September 21, 2005 

page 24 

FOOTBALL 

Now and then 

Tyrone Willingham watches the Huskies before a loss to Air Force on Sept. 3. 
Months a_fter the controversial Willingham firing, Irish focus on more than former leader 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
One week after Irish coach Charlie Weis prepared his team for the distractions of its first home game, the focu..'> has turned to the distraction of playing its 
former head coach. 
Saturday's matchup with Washington marks the first match up between Huskies head coach Tyrone 
See Also 
"McKnight's status is day-to-day" 
page 20 

Willingham, fired by Notre Dame in November, and the Irish. 
"I think the emotions for those games are extremely high and will be extremely high for this one," Willingham said at his weekly press conference Monday. "The fact that you have players that I recruited, that I spent time in their homes, that does make it just a little bit different the rela­tionship, but no. When you get to the game, it's a football game." 

Weis is focused on Notre Dame versus Washington (1-2) and nothing else. He wants his play­ers to adapt that attitude, as well. 
"Our coaching staff and our team has the utmost respect for Coach Willingham, his staff, and in addition, his team and their university," Weis said. "What this week is really going to be about is us getting back to us fixing our own problems fundamentally and technically, and that's going to be our points of emphasis." 
But Willingham will not be the Observer File Photo 
Tyrone Willingham leads Notre Dame against see COACH/page 21 Washington on Sept. 25, 2004. 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL -BLUE LEAGUE 
Cavanaugh defeats Howard in lopsided 24-0 statement 
By JAY FITZGERALD, CHRIS HINE and FRANCIS TOlAN Sports Writers 
Midway through the first half, Cavanaugh quarterback Lisa Ruffer threw a touchdown pass to wideout Janice Flynn for the Chaos' second score on the day, and the team never looked back. 
After forcing a punt after an 
MEN'S SOCCER 

initially promising Howard pos­session, Cavanaugh took the ball in its own half and drove down the field to make the score 12-0. 
An interception by Lizzy Brown on Howard's first possession gave the Chaos field position inside the Ducks' territory. Cavanaugh then scored its first touchdown on an option run when running back Tara Brown received the pitch near the goal line from Ruffer for 
Versatile Dalby helps Irish in back, midfield 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Writer 
Bobby Clark needed to make a change. With the Irish trail­ing 2-0 midway through Friday's match with St. John's, the Notre Dame head coach had to get something going offensively. 
Clark quickly turned to his most versatile and perhaps most valuable player -junior tri-captain Greg Dalby. Clark moved Dalby up from the cen­ter back position to play as a 
SMC GOLF
en .....
1--a z 

The Belles travel to Olivet for their last
a: s ~ 

MIAA conference match
c.:l 
of the season.
c 
= a. =: 

page 21
en 

defensive midfielder. The change allowed outside defenders Jack Traynor and Ryan Miller to move up the field and help the Irish offen­sive attack. 
"When you let your fullbacks get going forward, we felt we needed somebody that could anchor the midfield," Clark said. "And nobody does that better than Greg." 
Notre Dame has relied on Dalby's flexibility all season. The junior has flip-flopped 
see DALBY/page 20 
SMC VOlLEYBAlL 
Belles 3 Olivet 2 
The Belles salvaged a 2-0 lead despite injury to defeat their rivals. 
page 20 
the touchdown. 

Chaos defensive back Kerri Bergen caught the second inter­ception of the day, giving Cavanaugh good field position again. Ruffer found receiver Elisa Suarez in the end zone for the third touchdown before halftime, making the halftime score 18-0. 
For the Chaos, everything was seemingly working in the first half. With the defense forcing 
SMC SOCCER 
two turnovers and the offense putting up three scores, Cavanaugh was a daunting pres­ence on the field. 
"They made us look good as coaches," said Chaos offensive coordinator Hunter Land. 
The Ducks defense buckled down in the second half, forcing two punts on the Chaos' ftrst two possessions. Laura Pils also recorded the only sack of the day when she brought down Huffer for a loss of about seven yards. Also, the Ducks secondary held Chaos quarterbacks to a 3-for-11 completion rating, forcing Cavanaugh to stick to the run. 

The Ducks were hurt by field position in the second half, how­ever, and could not get the offense to get them out of their 
see CHAOS/pag~ 22 
Belles defeat Comets, 2-0 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Sports Writer 

It wasn't deja vu -just good soccer. 
The spectators of Tuesday's soccer contest between Saint Mary's and Olivet were treated to back-to-hack Belles goals in a comeback win. 
The untrained spectator would have thought he was experiencing a case of deja vu, but Collene Courtney and Sarah DuBree hooked up on back-to-hack goals 
see BELLES/page 22 

KATE FENLON!The Observer Belles midfielder Ashley Hinton, left, streaks towards the goal before a Saint Mary's score in the second half. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
The Superdome will no longer be host to the Sugar Bowl after the damage of Hurricane Katrina. 
page 19 
MLB-Nl 

Bonds hits third homer since return 
The slugger also spoke out about Congress and steroids. 
page 19 
PGA 

Leaders have debated who will be Tiger Woods' partner in the President's Cup. 
page 17 
MLB -Nl 
Colorado 20 San Diego 1 
Rockies defeat hapless 
Padres  in  a  19-run  
blowout.  
page 16  












