
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Archbishop: Catholic identity essential 

Archbishop Michael Miller, a Vatican education official, described an Impending era of religious purification at Catholic institutions Monday. 

Vatican official says pope will target religious dilution at universities 
By KATIE PERRY A~sistanr News Ediwr 

As his papacy progresses, Pope Bonedict XVI will likely take tlw path of "evangelical pruning" -or ref'using to maintain institutions that have lost their Catholic identi­ty -Archbishop Michael Miller said Monday at Notre Dame's llesblll·gh Cnnter auditorium. 
Miller, who serves as secre­tary of the Vatican's Congregation for Catholic Education, focused on the challenges facing American and European Catholic uni­versities as he delivered the University's 2005 Terrence 
Keeley Vatican lecture. 
While he never referred specifically to Notre Dame, Miller's commentary had unspoken implications for the University as a leading higher institution of Catholic learn­ing. 
The lecture drew sonw of Notre Dame's most prominent leaders and shapers of its Catholic identity, including University President Emeritus Father Theodore llesburgh and Dean of Arts and Lettnrs Mark Hoche. 
Miller looked to the writings of Cardinal .Joseph Hatzinger -now Pope Benedict XVI ­to predict which stance the Church might take to deal with institutions with a dilut­cd Catholic idnntity. 
"!The pope! argued that it might bn better for tho Church not to expend its resourcns trying to prnsnrve institutions if their Catholic idnntity has been seriously eompromis1~d," Miller said. "llis writings show that a time or purifka­tion lies alwad, and this undoubtedly will havn some ramil"ications for Catholic institutions." 
Past writings indieatn that the nnw popn bclinvns it is a mistake to uphold institutions that lack a solid Catholie idnn­tity, Mill1~r said. 
"For Ithe popnl ... the nwas­ure of an institution 1:an bn 
see VATICAN/page 4 


University's ne-w rectors take first few months in stride 
Large group of first-year dorm leaders faces challenges, adjusts to daily life at Notre Dame 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Nrws Wri1er 
With two months of nnw duties undPr t.lwir IH•Its, tlw snv1m nnw rm:tors hin•d to rPplaen vacand1~s left from last ynar arP intPgrat.ing thPmsi'IVI~s into tlw Notrl' Damn family whiiP lnaming to dPal with a host of its traditions, ranging from l'rosh-0 to homn football gamPs to SYI!s and otlwr dorm­n•lat«'d I'VPni.S. 
But. this intPgration is a process that goes hand in hand with chai­IPnges, Fatlwr Honald Vierling of Morriss«'y said. 
"Being a rww rPrlor is like lwing asknrl to finish writing a book lwgun by sonworw els1~." 
Vinr·ling said. "First you have to learn tho story as written and tlwn you have all these blank slwnts staring at you and you say to yoursnlf. 'OK, now where do I takn tho story?"' 
Vinr·ling and the othnr nnw rnc­t.ors, Kuukua Yomekpn of Pangborn, Sister Mary Lynch of MrCiinn, Sister .larwt Stankowski of Walsh, Jnnnifnr Oliva of Iloward, Bachnl Knllog of Brnon­l'hillips ami Amalia do Ia Torn~ of Cavanaugh are continuing to lind their niclw through their work with thoir rnspoetivH hall staffs and by m1~Pt.ing thn rnsidnnts of tlwir dorms. 
Assistant Vil:n Prosident of 
see RECTORS/page 3 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Cancellation provokes debate 
By MEGAN O'NEIL and 
KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writers 
Hnasons for thn elimination of Saint Mary's Pridn Week and thn introduction of lleritag1~ Wonk wore discussed and dar­ifind among studnnt govnrn­mont offienrs at Monday's Board of (;ovnrnancn meeting. 
Sornn board members said thny worn unawarn the wonk­long cnlnhration had bmm can­Cidnd and nxprossed concern about laek of notilkation about tlw decision. 
"I didn't know about it and 1 
see PRIDE/page 6 


Safety alerts intended 
to spur student caution 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER 
News Writer 
When leaving for class, the dining hall or a night out with friends, many Notre Dame stu­dents don't think twice about leaving their doors unlocked. Unfortunately, a eontinual problem for some of these trusting students is returning to their rooms to find some of their belongings stolon. 
"There is a definite concern over students leaving their rooms unlocked and being bur­glarized," said Phil Johnson, Associate Director of Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP). 
In an effort to make students 
more aware of safety risks, NDSP, the Campus Life Couneil and the South Bend Police Department rdeased their first Safety Beat newslettnr to all st.udents last Thursday via e­mail. 
The newsletter, whieh will be emailed to studnnts biweekly, eontains safety tips and infor­mation about crimes and other safety concerns on and around campus. 
"This is a collaborative effort," Johnson said. "We hope to make information available to students so they ean be aware of erimes in the plaens they frequent." 
see SAFETY/page 4 

INSIDE COLUMN 


My15 tninutes 
It's not every day that you get on TV during a national broadcast, appear prominently in a photo in Sports lllustrated, and have a mes­sage board started about you. Here's how it happened to me. Tim Sullivan 
In the fourth quarter of what Ph h 
will most likely be otograp er the best football game I ever witness, I was on the sidelines photographing the game for . The Observer. As USC began its final drive by fail­ing to advance the ball on first, sec­ond or third down, Notre Dame Stadium worked itself into a frenzy that I didn't think possible. So much for those that say we're a quiet stadi­um from a quiet Midwestern town. Having attended Chiefs games my entire life at infamously loud Arrowhead Stadium, I had never before heard Notre Dame Stadium become as deafeningly loud as Arrowhead, but on this day it was. So came fourth down and nine for the Trojans. Until now, I had kept my cheering to myself while quietly tak­ing photos and keeping my head behind the camera. But I could no longer restrain myself. With Matt Leinart a mere 20 yards away, I put aside my professionalism and joined the 80,000 others who were scream­ing their heads off. After the pass, my view was blocked by the USC sidelines. But I didn't need to see what happened, I heard it. Silence and utter desolation by the many and shouts of elation by the few. Now I was completely out of posi­tion, so I sprinted behind the USC bench and found a most opportune spot in front of the USC band right on the goal line. USC advanced to the two-yard line, and next came the one moment in Notre Dame sports history in which I will forever be ingrained. There's the snap and, wait a sec­ond, the play is coming right at me! Though I had the correct lens on the camera to get a shot of the play as it developed in the middle of the field, there was no way this lens was going work when the action came very close. about five feet as it turned out. So I lowered the camera and watched the action unfold in front of me: Leinart fumbled. You know the rest. What I didn't know or expect was the outcome of my lowering the cam­era. Sure I knew that being on the west sideline would increase my chances of making the TV broadcast, and it did. My plan of wearing bright colors (an orange shirt and green hat) so that my parents might see me on TV finally paid off ... and then some. The next edition of Sports lllustrated featured six pages of pho­tographs from the game, and sure enough, there I was, camera down and all, gracing the pages of SI. In the photographers' message board thread that started about me being caught "with my camera down," one man quipped, "That may be the ultimate embarrassment for Mr. orange shirt." Well, sir, at least I made it into Sports Illustrated. 
Contact Tim Sullivan at 
tsulliv4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE HALLOWEEN CANOY? 

Brittany Clingen freshman Pangborn  Kristen Mosier freshman Pangborn  Steve Humphrey junior Keough  Barbara MacDonald junior McGlinn  Ashley Haddad junior McGlinn  AJ Cedeno junior Dillon  
"Snickers. "  "This cookie. "  "Candy canes.''  "Candy cane  "Operation  "Peeps!"  



grams. Smile Cookies ... 

Electrocuted squirrel starts grass fire 
BYRAM, Miss. -An elec­tric lineman believes a squirrel started a grass fire Monday after the critter was electrocuted and fell froin a power line onto parched ground. 
It's been more than a month since significant amounts of rain have fallen in central Mississippi, though some showers were ex.pected late Monday. Burn bans are in effect in this Jackson suburb and many other nearby communities. 
Passing motorists saw a flash and heard a loud pop, then saw ashes falling from the power line. The spark ignited a grassfire, which spread to nearby pine trees and charred a fence. Byram volunteer firefighters responded within minutes. 

An Entergy lineman arrived as the flames were extinguished and found the probable cause of the fire ­the squirrel's charred body. 
One of the motorists, Calvin Russell, told Jackson's WLBT-TV: ''I'm a country boy, so I'm thinking dinner 
. .. 
tune. 
Survey says more Britons believe in ghosts than God 
LONDON More Britons believe in ghosts 
than in God, according to an informal survey pub­lished Monday. Of 2,012 people who completed a questionnaire, 68 percent said they believed in the existence of ghosts and spirits, while 55 percent said they believed in the existence of a god. 
The Halloween survey was carried out by retailer ChoicesUK. But since it was not a random sample, its findings do not repre­sent a statistically valid barometer of British opin­ion. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY a: 
1.&.1 
:I: 
!ci: 
1.&.1 
3: 
..... 


~ ~~ 
<C 
(,) 

...I 0 HIGH 55 HIGH 48 HIGH 58 HIGH 66 LOW 50 LOW 45 LOW 43 LOW 47 
yum. 
IN BRIEF 
Muslim authors Chahdortt Djavann and lrshad Manji will give a lecture entitled "Removing the Veil: Two Muslim Women's Re-examination of Islam" at 
4:30 p.m. Wednesday in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The joint lecture L'i free and open to the public and will be followed by a question and answer ses­sion, reception and book signing. 
The Department of Sociology and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts will sponsor speaker Pamela J. Smock from the University of Michigan Thursday as part of The Provost's Distinguished Women's Lecturer Series. The lecture will take place from 11 :30 a.m. to 
1:30 p.m. in G-20 Flanner Hall and will focus on "Living Together Unmarried in the United States: Demographic Perspectives and Implications for Family Policy." 
Ana Garcia Rodicio, visiting fellow at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, will present a lecture titled "Post­Genocide Transitional Justice: The Process of Cambodia in Dialogue with Bosnia and Rwanda" at 4:15 p.m. Thursday at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
"Open Doors to the Physics Labs" will take place Saturday from 9 a.m. to noon in Nieuwland Science Hall. Professor Chris Kolda will speak from 10 a.m. to 11 in room 118 on "God's Dice: Einstein and the Journey from the Wedgewood Kilns to the Uncertainty Principle." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 60 HIGH 55 LOW 40 LOW 45 
Atlanta 72 I 52 Boston 68 I 48 Chicago 60 I 40 Denver 68 I 38 Houston 74 I 45 Los Angeles 841 56 Minneapolis 58 I 40 New York 68 I 52 Philadelphia 70 I 50 Phoenix 88 I 60 Seattle 54 I 44 St. Louis 62 I 45 Tampa 84 I 70 Washington 741 52 
Tuesday, November 1 , 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Rectors 
continued from page 1 
Studnnt Aflitirs Sistnr Jnan Lnnz said llw tww !{roup ol' rectors is adjusting wPII to life with stu­dPnL"i in tlw donn communities. 
"WP an~ rnally happy with t.he tii'W group ol' rndors," Lnnz said. Studnnt All'airs SistPr Jnan Lnnz said t.hn nnw !{roup ol' rectors is adjusting wdl to lif'n with stu­dPnL"i in t.hn donn wmmunities. 
"Wn arn rnally happy with the nnw group of' rndot·s," Lenz said."Tiwy partidpatml so well in all tho orinntation that took placn." 
ThP Ollie~~ of' Student Afl'airs olli!rs support to tlw 1ww rndors through f'n•qunnt intnraetion. l·:adt wnnk, snnior stall' members mnnt with tlw tww rndors, and pnriodically stan· nwmbers mm~t with t.lw rm:tors individually to snrvn as mnntors and address qunstions and concerns. All the rnctors nwnt twkn a month to disruss issuns likn parking, secu­rity, studnnt rwmls and nm:nssary dorm nmovations. 
But f'or most of the timn, the flpdgling rndors arn all finding tlwir rPspnctiw ways a littlf~ bit difl'nn•ntly. 
l>n Ia Torn~ moved into Cavanaugh with lwr choeolatn lab, .Jarkson. 
"Tho dog madn it easier to nwd loL"i of' tlw girls," do Ia Torre said. 
As a n~sult. of' lwing at Notre Damn, slw says her dog has bm:omn "vnry politically active," parti(:ipating in walks for Uganda and brnast cancer caus­ns. 
But dn Ia Torn~ has certainly donn her part in hncoming active in dorm lili\ joining the residents at the pep rally, supporting HecSports and contributing to the lituq..,ry at weekly masses. 
For Lynch, the support of' the OITice of Student Affairs, hall staff' and dorm residents has made tho transition into life at Notre Damn easy. 
"The hardest part is thn total change in limns of my day," Lynch said. "I am morn orinnll~d towards night." 
Lynch has worknd dosoly with students at otlwr (:ollnges, but she said this is the first time she has lived in community with thmn. 
Stankowski praised the resi­dence life system at Notre Dame, 

adjusting to Notre
''I'm carving out 

which she said Dame's more inti­was unlike those a place here. " mate atmosphere prnsnnt in institu­and her role as the tions where she person residents go
Kuukua Yomekpe

prnviously worked. to with problems. 

Pangborn rector

"I love the dorms ''!'m trying to fig-
being small Christian communities," Stankowski said. "I am still trying to learn all the people in my community, but I like how we develop leadership in the com­munity." 
I.ike other rnctors, Stankowski says her biggest challenge has been adjusting to tho schedules of college studenL"i, "being avail­able to p1wple when they are available." 
She has no problem bning available during normal hours, hownvnr, as demonstrated by her involvemont with Walsh's hall eouncil. 
"I sne myself as being the per­son who works with student loaders," Stankowski said. 
Oliva, who called tho support from the Notn~ Damn eommunity "unbelievable," has found her rector experinnce thus far to be just as she expected. She said the only problem has benn getting a routine down, since she lives whern she works, but said every­thing else has gone smoothly filr her. 

She was not even flustered with the planning and execution of Itoward's first SYH of the year. 
"Some junior high dances wnrn worse t.han our SYH was," Oliva said. "It went oil' fine." 
Yomnkpo, who is also the lirst black female rector at Notre Damn, previously taught and served as a campus minister at tho University of Dayton where she lived in a dorm with 1,600 
students. She is 
ure out when do I dose the door, say I'm taking a nap now," Yomekpe said. ''I'm earving out a place here." 
Yomekpe 's day consists of rnsponding to phone calls and e­mail, meeting with various cam­pus and rnsidnnt"i and attending campus and dorm evenl"i. 
"The hardest thing !about being a reetorl is that there is no manual," Yomekpe said. 
Yomekpe often has ideas for dill'erent programs or things to do around campus, but is not certain whethnr or how to make these ideas happen. She said she is finding out how to trust herself in her endeavors at Notre Dame and lnarning when to ask for help. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Parlia111entarian choice do111inates discussion 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
Student government has been without a parliamentarian for a year, but a new parliamentarian was selected at the Coundl of Hepresentatives (COHI nweting Monday night. 
Junior Chris llollon was nomi­nated f()r the position of' Student Union Parliamentarian by Judicial Council Pn~sident James Leito. 
"It was a long and arduous process, finding a parliamentari­an," Leito said. 
As Student Union Parliamentarian, Hollon will ensure that Hobert's Hules of Order and parliamentary proce­dure are followed in Student Senate, COH and Campus Life Council meetings. 
"lie will speak up if an action is taken by members of the eom­mittee that is inconsistent with correct procedure," student body president Dave Baron said. 
A recommendation inspired Hollon's nomination for Student Union Parliamentarian, whieh was solidified by strong creden­tials. 
Hollon gained a familiarity with parliamentary proced urn while serving as parliamentari­an at Ohio Boys State during high school. 
"This gave him a great deal of expnriencP working with Hobert's Hulns and parlianwn­tary procmlure," Leito said. ''I'd say he has morn eXJHH'inncn going in than anyone who's lwld the position before." 
Last year a parlianwntarian was not nendml IHH:ausn then­student body pn~sidnnt Adam Istvan had an "abovn-avnrage knowledgo of Holwrt's Hules," Baron said. 
lin is curnmtly involv(~d with the Student Union as the Spiritual Chair of the .Junior Class Council and Vkn-Chair of Junior l'amnts' WonkPnd. 
Hollon's Junior Class Council meetings pres(~nt a slight time eonfliet with Student Senatn mnetings, hut this livn-minute overlap should not dissuade rep­rnsent.atives for approving him, Leito said. 
llollon was approved without opposition as Student Union Parliamentarian. 
In other COR news: 
+ 
Lnito said eampaigning for the Judicial Council's l'nnr Advoeaey program will take plaee this wnek. 

+ 
Student Union treasurnr Mike Marshall said student groups must submit th1~ir budg­ets to the Finandal Management Board by today. 


Contact Karen Langley at 
klangle I @nd.edu 









Men's Soccer 

# 5Irish Vollevball
Big East Tournev First Round 

vs. Saint louis
Notre Dame vs. svracuse 

Wednesdav, November 2, 1:00 PM Wednesdav, November 2, 7:00 PM Alumni Field Drink Coasters to First500 Fans FREE Admission to first100 sponsored bV Marathon (!!!~ NO, SMC and HC Students 
FREE Admission to all NO, SMC and HC Students 
Vatican 
continued from page 1 
judged by its Catholic integri­ty," Miller said. "If [seculariza­tion occurs], it might be a mat­ter of truth and justice that such an institution is no longer upheld. [Pope] Benedict [XVI] and others may believe that if a 
Catholic institu­tion is no longer motivated by a Catholic identity, it is better to let it go." 
Miller said the Church could take two approaches to confront insti­tutions where Catholic identity has been lost: the pope's "evangeli­cal pruning" or a 
method of hopeful patience. 
"[Proponents of the latter method] believe that while a part of a university's ecclesias­tical identity might well be compromised, it is still better that we be patient because the institution is only 'held hostage' by a generation that will pass," he said. 
Some Church "All the basic academic versity is leaders would made of a
activities ofa Catholic

rather put up community
university are connected

with a "less which may than ideal" situ­with -and in harmony give collective ation and pray witness to
with -the evangelizing 

for the amelio­Catholic
mission ofChurch. " 

ration of an faith," he institution's said. Catholic identity Archbishop Michael Miller Miller said than dissolve the mutability
Vatican secretary 

ties with such places, Miller said. 
"[The pope] appears to be more inclined to avoid scandal and lead a path of evangelical pruning, but we don't know," he said. "We await." 
Miller said Catholic universi­ties can demonstrate a Christian presence by carrying out the Church's evangelizing mission and providing service to the world. 
"All the basic academic activ­
"For {the pope] ... the measure ofan institution can be judged by its Catholic integrity.,, 
Archbishop Michael Miller Vatican secretary 
ities of a Catholic university are connected with -and in harmony with -the evangeliz­ing mission of Church," he said. "Every Catholic must play a role at the center of ecclesi­astical life." 
Miller said one significant way Catholic universities in America and Europe can pro­vide service to others is by assuaging the "asymmetry" 
mutual understanding," he said. 
Miller said Catholic identity is lost when universities mistake their intrinsic bond to the Church for an external, supple­mentary component. 
"Much more than a collection 
of individuals animated by their faith, a Catholic uni­
of the Church 
requires the constant improvement and advancement of Catholic iden­tity at these institutions. 
"The burden of proof falls on the university itself," he said. "Such a decision to retain one's Catholic identity is not about maintaining the status quo, but [rather] making positive changes." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
that exists between these institutions across the world, especially in impoverished regions of Africa. 
"The Holy See urges Catholic universities to develop partner­ships with those of emerging nations to grow in solidarity and 


Safety 
continued from page 1 
Last week's edition explained Safety Beat's pur­pose and also included tips on how to prevent vehicle larce-· ny. The tips advised students to keep their cars locked at all times, to park in well-lit areas and to avoid keeping valuables in the car. 
"Each e-mail will have a topic," Johnson said. "We will 

Professor says law-refortn needed 
Special to The Observer 
Jimmy Gurule, professor of law in the Notre Dame Law School, will give a lecture on "The Need for Immigration Reform in the War on Terror" at noon Nov. 16 in Room 208 of McKenna Hall. 
Gurule, an expert in interna­tional criminal law, is particu­larly interested in terrorism, 

offee Ofld Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 1st 
(and every first Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The student members of the 
Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invite gay, 
(::QMMi'tT£6: ON $.\Y AND L£8&1Alt STU.OENT NEe·os 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
terrorist financing and the prevention of money-launder­ing. He has worked in numer­ous public law enforcement positions, including as under­secretary for enforcement in the Department of the Treasury from 2001 to 2003, where he helped draft and implement the U.S. govern­ment's anti-terrorist financing strategy. 
put timely tips in them. For example, before holiday break the e-mail will include tips on vacation watches and how to secure valuables. This will be especially important for stu­dents who live off-campus." 
Safety Beat also contains links to the South Bend Police Department Web site and other community resources. By clicking on the links, stu­dents have instant access to maps of recent crimes and data. 
NDSP is working with stu­dent government so future editions will have links to dif­ferent events downtown, in order to bring students closer to the South Bend community. 
Johnson said organizers began working on Safety Beat at the end of last school year and continued the project's planning into the fall semester. 
"We want there to be more dialogue between police and students," Johnson said. 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 
In addition to serving in the Treasury Department, he was an assistant attorney general from 1990 to 1992 in the Department of Justice, the highest ranking Hispanic in the department's history. 
A member of the Notre Dame Law School's faculty since 1989, he teaches courses on international criminal law and the law on terrorism. 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November I, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
~========================================================~ 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
October a deadly month in Iraq 
BAGIll>AD -Six American soldiers were killed in separate attacks Monday and a Marine died in action the day before, mak­ing October the dr~<HIIiest month for U.S. troops in Iraq since .January. A car bomb exploded in Basra during evening Hamadan festivities, killing at least 20 people. 
Earlier Monday, U.S. jets struck insur­gent targets rwar tlw Syrian border and at least six people were killed. 
Four soldiers from the Army's Task Forc~e Baghdad soldinrs died when their· patrol struck a roadside bomb in Youssiliyah, 12 miles south of Baghdad in an area known as tlw "triangle of death." 
Two other soldiers from the 29th Brigade Combat Team were also killed in a bombing Monday near Balad. 50 miles north of Baghdad. 
The U.S. military also said a Marine was killed Sunday near Amiriyah. 25 miles west of Baghdad. 
India sees foreign link to bombings 
Nl·:W DJ.:I.lll -Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh r.laimed Monday there was a foreign link to bombings that blood­ied two Nnw Delhi markets, a veiled refer­ence to Pakistan-basr~d militants. But both nations sought to prnserve the fragile detente that grew out of the recent quake disaster. 
Pakistani President Gen. Pervez Musharraf eondemned terrorism and pledged full coopnration in the bombing invr!stigation, which came three weeks after an earthquake ravaged the disputed llirnalayan region and helped draw the two nudnar rivals doser. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Nation remembers, honors Parks 
WASHINGTON -Linking hands and singing "We Shall Overcome," old friends and Washington's establishment remembered Hosa Parks on Monday as a quiet, gentle wornan whose courage in the face of segrega­tion lwlpml inspim generations. 
An overllow church crowd paid tribute to tlw woman whose rr~fusal to give up lwr seat to a white man on a Montgomery, Ala., city bus 50 years ago helped galvanize the modern civil rights movmnnnt. Tho two-day farewell ' and "honwgoing" in Washington also attract­P£1 tens of thousands who stood for hours for a glimpse of Parks' mahogany coffin in the ( :apit.ol Holunda. 
Bush stays silent on CIA leak 
WA"iiiiN<;TON-The White I louse on Monday rPhutl(•d mils lin· a stan· shakoup. tho liring of Karl How and an apology by Prnsidnnt Bush liw tlw roln of senior administration ollidals in the lllliiHL<iking of ( :lA operal.ivn Valorio Plarno. 
Thrnn days alkr tho indietnwnt and rnsigna­tion of Vkn Pwsidnnt l>iek Cheney's ehinf of staff, tlw administration said it would havr~ to rmnain silr~nt <L'i long <L'i there W<L'i an invnstigation of tho leak and lngal procnmling undr~r way. Bush ignored reporters' questions during an Oval OITire nweting with Italian Premier Silvio Berluswni. 
"We don't want to do anything from hem that could prejudiel' thl' opportunity lilr them to be a fair and impartial trial," pmsidential spokosman Scott McCiollan said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Ind. man pleads guilty to murders 
CBOWN POINT, Ind. --'-A man aecusod of killing thrPn teenagers and burying thnir bod­ins in tlw haspmm1t of his !Iammond home pleaded guilty Monday to all tlm~o killings. 
David l·:dward Maust., 51, nntnrnd a plna agrPPnwnt in whidr lw admitted murdoring .larrH~s Haganyi. 16, Nieholas .I amos, I1), and MirhaPI Dennis, I:t 
In Pxehangn liH· his plna, Maust. will rm~eivn thrl'e sentencns of lifn without parole to be servl'd consl'!'lltiVI'Iy. 
UNITED NATIONS 


UN warns Syria to cooperate 
Security Council assassination investigations face obstacle in Syrian defiance 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS-A 
united Security Council 
warned a defiant Syria on 
Monday of possible "further 
action" if it doesn't cooperate 
with a U.N. investigation that 
has implicated top Syrian 
ollidals in the assassination 
of Lebanon's former prime 
minister. 
But the United States, Franee and Britain had to drop the explicit threat of sanctions to win unanimous support lbr the resolution at a rare meeting of the foreign ministers from most of the council's 15 mnmbers. 
The three nations stressed they will press for tough U.N. measures if Syria docs not comply fully with the probe into the killing of Rafik Hariri and 20 others. 
Their original resolution thmatening sanctions had to be watered down to get all the council members on board. Russia, China, Brazil and others, particularly Algeria, the only Arab nation on the council, strongly opposed putting sanctions on Syria. 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice said the resolution still left Syria in a corner. 

"With our decision today, we show that Syria has iso­latod itself from the interna­tional community -through its false statements, its sup­pose a problem for Syrian U.S., Britain and France. knew about this summor's port for terrorism, its inter­President Bashar Assad as Syrian Foreign Ministor London bombings. ference in the affairs of its well as his brother, Maher Farouk ai-Sharaa watched Tho r:omment visibly neighbors, and its destabiliz­Assad, and-his brother-in­the vote and listened to angored British Foreign ing behavior in the Middle law, Assef Shawkat, the chief spem:hes from all 15 coundl Secmtary Jack Straw, who East," she said. "Now, the of military intelligence. The nations demanding his gov­called it "the most grotnsquo Syrian government must Syrian loader refused a nrnmont fully cooperate. lin and insnnsitivn eomparison," mako a stratogie decision to mquest from chief investiga­then lashed out at Mohlis "appalling," and "absurd." fundamentally change its tor Detlev Mehlis to be inter­and the eouncil lbr accusing lin said any eoundl mnmlwr bohavior." viewed, and investigators Syria of committing a erime concorrwd about adopting 
The resolution requires also want to question his without pr.odueing any ovi­the rnsolution under Chaptnr Syria to detain anyone eon­brother and brother-in-law. dence. VII of tho U.N. Charter, whil:h sidered a suspect by U.N. Seeking to rally rngional He said accusing Syrian is militarily onforenabln, investigators and let thom support. A<>sad's government security forces of having should have their misgivings dotnrmine the location and callod Monday filr an emer­advaneo knowlndgo of allayed by al-Sharaa's dnli­conditions under which the gency Arab League summit. llariri's killing was tanta­anco. individual is questioned. It But Arab diplomats said it mount to charging that U.S. IHee told· reportnrs af'tPr­also would fronzo assets and was unlikely that many of th(~ oflieials know ahead of time ward that ai-Sharaa's out­impose a travel ban on any­!-,'l'oup's 22 member nations about the Sept. II attacks, burst was "a tiradn whieh one identilind as a suspoct. would agreo to a meeting, fbr Spain know about the 2004 madn tho most hizarTP con­
Those provisions eould fear of harming ties with the train bombings and Britain nection." 


Alito nominated for high court 
Bush's goal for new era of judicial conservatism evident with latest pick 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -President Bush nominated Appeals Court Judge Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court on Monday, hoping to usher in a his­toric new era of judicial eonser­vatisrn while ending a Bepublican dividn that doomed an earlier piek. 
Members of thn Sonate's Democratie minority signaled a potentially bruising eonl'irmation battln ahnad, with abortion a key issue. Sen. llarry Hoid of Nevada, thn party's leader, asknd whether Alito was "too radieal for the Amnrican people" and wondered aloud "why those who want to pack the court with judicial activists are so much more enthusiastic about him" than Harriet Miers. 

Bush, naming a replaeemont for Justiee Sandra Day O'Connor four days after Miers withdrew her name, said Alito "has a denp under­standing of the proper role of judges in our soeiety." 
"lie understands that judges are to interpret the laws, not to impose their profnrencos or prioritios on the pnople," tho president said. Within hours. Alito collceted support from many of the critics who had opposed Minrs. 
Alito's politically conservativn views wore not in dispute. 
"Of eourse hn 's against abortion." his 90-year-old mothnr, Hosn. told reporters at her homn in llarnilton, N.J. 
Despitn the unguardnd eomnwnts of a proud mother, Snn. Arlen Speetnr, who will ehair .Judieiary Committoe lwarings, told rr~portnrs in tho Capitol, "Thorn is a lot morn to do with a woman's right l.o ehoosn than how you frwl about it pllrsonal­ly." Tlw Pennsylvania Hnpuhliean cited adhen~ncn to lngal prnendnnt in rulings ovnr :~o years upholding abortion rights. 
Later, after a privat.n meeting, Spnetnr said, "I havo no reason io eatalogun him as an idnologun." 
erate excitement about the 
College -as well as poor
Pride 
continued from page 1 
don't know if anyone else knew about it," senior class president Lauren Condon said. "It seemed to just come out of nowhere." 
Neither student government nor the College administration made an official announce­ment regarding the cancella­tion of the event. 
It was only through an OcL 27 Observer arti­

event attendance were the main reasons for its termina­tion, Rosenbush said. 
"If I asked you what [were] the events of Pride Week last year you couldn't tell me squat," Rosenbush said. "You'd tell me the pep rally." 
She cited high expenses that strained the student govern­ment budget as an additional reason. 
"We can't continue to throw $5,000 at that thing when we have the 
cle, Condon said, [College!
"I would not cancel
that she and many Readership members of the a weeklong event Program Ito student body pay for]."
because people are 
learned it would Rosenbush
upset over a
not be taking said. 
place. T-shirt. '' In a post­Director of meeting clarifi­Student Activities cation, Rosen­
George Rosenbush
George Rosenbush bush said she

Director of Student 
said Pride Week informed stu­had been under Activities dent body pres-review for two or ident Kellye three years and Mitros that said she was ultimately Pride Week would not be tak­responsible for the decision. ing place in a meeting last The loss of the original pur­spring. The Pride Week T­pose of Pride Week -to gen-shirt, a point of controversy during last year's event, was Nevertheless, they said they discussed, but Rosenbush said believe Heritage Week, an idea it was not an ultimate factor in they originally proposed while the decision. campaigning, will prove to be 
"I would not cancel a week­a refreshing and more suc­long event because people are cessful event. upset over a T-shirt," Another point brought up Rosenbush during the dis-said. . cussion at 
When asked Monday's about state­meeting over
"It just seemed to come 
ments made the cancella­
out ofnowhere."
by Mitros and tion of Pride vice president Week was S u s a n whether or not

Lauren Condon 
Mcllduff to Saint Mary's

president
The Observer would host a

Senior Class 
last week cit­Notre Dame ing last year's pep rally this uproar as a semester, tra­factor in the ditionally at decision, Rosenbush said the the culmination of the week. T-shirt issue negatively Student Activities Board impacted the already strug­president Megan Cahill said as gling Pride Week. of Monday the College was not 
"That is what they thought in scheduled to host a pep rally their minds, they're correct as it has done in past years, because that is what they but said this was unrelated to thought it to be," Hosenbush the elimination of Pride Week. said. "Those were their A change of football coaches thoughts. When they thought has resulted in a change of of Pride Week, they thought of format for the pep rallies, the shirt." Cahill said, and she was 
Mitros and Mcllduff stood by unable to establish a date last their previous statements. spring as she had hoped. 
"In the past with that Student Activities at Notre Dame was totally in charge of the pep rally, but I think we have all seen how the pep ral­lies have changed," she said. 
Cahill said she will make an announcement if a change occurs. 
In other BOG news: 
+The sophomore class is hosting a Salsa night complete with dance instruction 8 p.m. Thursday in Haggar Parlor. Admission is $1. 
+Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy will cele­brate Mass at Saint Mary's at 9 
p.m. Sunday in Regina Chapel. The Mass is sponsored by the senior class and an informal discussion will follow. 
+College President Carol Mooney will meet students in an informal gathering on Nov. 20 in Holy Cross Hall. The time will be announced closer to the event. 
Contact Megan O'Neil and Kelly Meehan at onei0907@saintmarys.edu and kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



NSA historian urges release of document 
Associated Press spokesman Don Weber said the agency had delayed releasing the 
WASHINGTON The article "in an effort to be consis­National Security Agency has tent with our preferred practiCe been blocking the release of an of providing the public a more article by one of its historians contextual perspective." He said that says intelligence officers fal­the agency plans to release the sified documents about a disput­article and related materials next ed attack that was used to esca­month. late the Vietnam War, according "Instead of simply releasing the to a researcher who has request­author's historical account, the ed the article. agency worked to declassify the 
Matthew Aid, who asked for associated signals intelligence ... the article under the Freedom of and other classified documents Information Act last year, said it used to draw his conclusions," appears that officers at the NSA Weber said. made honest mistakes in trans­Aid has been told that lating interceptions involving the Hanyok's article analyzes prob­1964 Gulf of Tonkin incident. lems found in interceptions about That was a reported North the events. He said the nature Vietnamese attack on American and extent of the mistakes destroyers that helped lead to remain unclear, and some senior President Johnson's escalation of officials at NSA who were not 
U.S. involvement in Vietnam. involved with the errors have 
Rather than correct the mis­taken issue with the journal arti­takes, the 2001 article in the de. NSA's classified Cryptologic Quarterly says, midlevel officials decided to falsify documents to cover up the errors, according to Aid, who is working on a history of the agency and has talked to a number of current and former government officials about this chapter of American history. 
Aid draws comparisons to more recent intelligence on Iraq's weapons of mass destruction that overstated the threat posed by Saddam Hussein's arsenal. 
"The question becomes, why not release this?" Aid said of the article. "We have some docu­ment<> that, from my perspective, I think would be very instructive to the public and the intelligence community ... on a mistake made 41 years ago that was just as bad as the WMD debacle." 

Making Settse out of Suffering 


Cancer patient to rejoin fatnily 
Child Protective Services incomplete treatment.Judge rules in favor removed Katie from her fami­State lawyers argued that ly after her parents stopped her life would be endangered
ofteen's parents in 

her cancer treatment. Iler if she did not continue treat­father, Edward Wernecke, ments at the M.D. Anderson
controversial case 

worried that a move to radia­Cancer Center in Houston. tion treatment could put his "We certainly understand
Associated Press daughter at heightened risk why the judge would want COHPUS CHRISTI, Texas -for breast cancer, stunt her Katie at home with her family A 13-year-old cancer patient growth and cause learning at this point of her illness," who was put into foster care problems. CPS spokesman Aaron Reed 
after her parents refused to Before the ruling, Hunter said. "This isn't the outcome allow radiation treatment will told Wernecke to "look at me we advocated for, but our be reunited with her family, a man to man, eyeball to eye­goal all along has been for 
judge ruled Monday. ball" and promise he would Katie to get the treatment she 
Faced with her deteriorat­do the best for Katie. needs and get better and go ing health, state district Wernecke said he would. home." Judge Jack Hunter said Katie Katie's parents have made Wernecke's parents were Wernecke would be better off several attempts to stop treat­overjoyed with the judge's with her family in Corpus ment for the girl's Hodgkin's decision. Christi than in the custody of disease, a cancer of the lymph "The good news is we'J;e the foster parents she was nodes. She was diagnosed in getting Katie back," Edward assigned by Child Protective January and began receiving Wernecke said. Her mother, Services. chemotherapy, which doctors Michelle Wernecke, added, 
"CPS and the Werneckes are recommended be followed "She's going to be home soon, never, ever going to agree," with radiation. it feels great." Hunter said. "If I leave it up Katie's oncologist has said In a statement, family attor­to CPS and the Werneckes ... her chances of surviving· have ney James Pikl said the deci­this child is going to die for fallen from 80 percent to sion had larger implicationslack of anything being done." about 20 percent because of for parental rights in Texas. 
Upcoming Topics: 
nts & the Universal Call to Holiness 
The NSA is the largest spy 


Catholic Social Teaching 
agency in government, responsi­


vs Reason: How Science Can Aid or Hinder Our Faith 
ble for much of the United States' 

Loneliness & the Desire for God
codebreaking and eavesdropping 
C.at:holic.c; & the Public Square 
work. In spy lingo, the agency collects and analyzes "signals intelligence"-or "SIGINT." 
The article, written by NSA 



Cavanaugh Hall Chapel
Historian Robert Hanyok, and the controversy over its release were first reported in The New York Times on Monday. 
In a written statement, NSA 


THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, November 1, 2005 
page 7 
Steve Case resigns from board 
Dow 
10,440.07 +37.30
}ones 
Architect of AOL-Time Warner deal steps down after two years offallout 
~ 
Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,490 2,596, I 06,560 
Associated Press 
134 '~ 
NEW YOHK -Steve Case, a eo-founder of America 

AMEX 1,656:6z:::;;;::r~!!!±lll•J 
NASDAQ 2, 120.30 + 30.42 
Online and one of the main

NYSf &-~'~7:433 .1 a_~:,-,-,;::iitllli'trr 
architects of the disastrous 

s&PSOO I ,207 .0 I +8.60 
AOL-Time Warner deal, said 
Monday he has resigned 
from Time Warner Inc.'s

NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 1.3 .6o6:SU'''i\t.l1f!l~lli!i' 
FTSE IOO(London)5,317.30 +103.90 
board of directors. Case had relinquished the 

COMPANY %CHANG£ I$GAIN I PRICI 
role of chairman two years 


NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) INTEL CP (INTC) SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
+1.43 +0.55 38.87 
ago, but remained on the media conglomerate's board

+ 1.8 I +0.31 17.4S 
of directors despite tho oppo­

+0.67 +0.17 25.70 
sition of shareholders 
angered by the fallout of 
AOL's purchase of Time 

+0.73 +0.17 23.50 
+3.09 +0.12 4.00 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.40 I 0-YEAR NOTE -0.18 5-YEAR NOTE -0.07 3-MONTH BILL -0.52 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/li'oy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
fxcha Rates 

YEN 
EURO 
POUND CANADIAN$ 
-0.19 
-0.08 
-0.03 
-0.20 
-1.46 
-7.90 
-0.58 
47.55 
45.59 
44.4 7 
38.05 
59.76 
466.90 
89.03 
I 16.4000 0.8339 0.5650 I. I 820 
Warner, which led to mas­sive write-downs, sharehold­er lawsuits, regulatory scrutiny and a management purge. 
Other key executives involved in the deal have already left the company, including former Time Warner CEO Gerald Levin and Bob Pittman, a former AOL executive. 
Time Warner has agreed to pay a combined $510 mil­lion to settle shareholder lawsuits and regulatory charges that AOL fraudulent­ly inflated its online advertis­ing revenues and subscriber counts. The company also 
took multibillion dollar write­downs and removed AOL from the beginning of its

IN BRIEF 
name. Case said in a statement 

Regulators approve phone mergers 
that be was leaving to focus WASIIINGTON -Hngulators agreed 
on growing his new invest­Monday to approve SBC Communications' 
ment company and to avoid taknovnr of AT&T and Verizon 
any potential conflicts of Cornmunieations' purchase of MCI -deals 
interest. He also said he was that allow thn nation's biggest phone compa­
pleased to see a "renewed nies to grow bigger-but with conditions. 
focus" on AOL at Time By 4-0 votes, the Federal Communications 
Warner. Case, through a Commission approved the multibillion-dollar 
spokeswoman, declined to mergers with conditions that drew praise 
make any further comment. from rivals of SHC and Verizon. Consumer 
In April, Case launched an advoeatos, worried about shrinking competi­
investment company called tion in the industry, said the conditions didn't 
Hevolution LLC which now go far nnough. 
owns several businesses The agPney required that SBC and Vcrizon 
including Wisdom Media frnezn for 30 months the wholesale prices 
Group, a company that thoy eharge competitors to lease certain 
makes TV programs on high-capacity business lines. It said the two 
yoga, acupuncture and shiat­companins had to guarantee for two years 
su massage; a high-end spa that they will sell their high-speed Internet 
outside Tucson, Ariz., called access as a stand-alone service, so customers 
Miraval and Exclusive anm' t foreed to buy local phone service as 
Hesorts, a company that well. 
markets luxury vacation In ordnr to gain approval, the companies 
rentals. also promised not to hinder Internet access 
Ironically, after several to consumers or the free flow of Internet traffie on their networks. 
AP 

America Online co-founder Steve Case resigned Monday from Time-Warner Inc.'s 
board of directors after a prolonged scandal. 
years of being seen as an albatross around Time Warner's neck because of its steadily declining dial-up subscriber base, in recent months AOL has become a coveted acquisition target among major Internet com­panies such as Yahoo Inc. and Coogle Inc. as it taps into the boom in online advertising. 
Time Warner has been under pressure from activist shareholder Carl Ieahn and a group of allied investors to take drastic measures to boost its share price, which is still about 75 percent below the levels reached before the AOL-Time Warner deal was announced in early 2000. 
Time Warner has dis­agreed with leahn's propos­als, which include completely spinning off its cable 1V sub­sidiary and stepping up a share repurchase program. lcahn also has criticized the fact that several directors who approved the AOL-Time Warner deal remain on Time Warner's board. Many investors, however, seem to agree with Time Warner CEO Dick Parsons' focus on turning around AOL. 
Case noted that he would still be one of the largest individual shareholders in the company following his departure, and said he would remain "actively engaged" as future stratogies for AOL are considerod. 
According to SEC lilings, Case owns about ().:3 pnrcent of the company's shares, about half the size of the stake ownod by CNN limnder and Timo Warner board member Ted Turnor. 
In a statement, Parsons thanked Casn for his ynars of service to the company. "We'll look forward to his wise eounsnl as the company continues to move forward. lie will be missed," Parsons said. 
Time Warner spokesman Ed Adler said the company had no immediate plans to name a succossor liw Case to its board, whieh now has 14 members. lie declined to make any further comment on Case's departure. 

Dollar rises on strong economic news 
BEHI.IN -The dollar rallied Monday against the euro and other major currencies 
Stocks end higher on acquisition
on positive news about the U.S. economy and 
expfletations that the U.S. Federal Reserve will again raise interest rates. 
The ouro bought $1.1984 in late trading in New York, down from $1.2067 earlier in the day and from the $1.2057 it bought on Friday. That drives the 12-nation currency back down bnlow the $1.20-level where it has hovered for weeks. 
The dollar also rosn to 116.35 Japanese yon in late trading Monday, up from 115.66 ynn Friday in Now York. The British pound bought $1.7685, down from $1.7738 on Friday. The dollar rose to 1.2901 Swiss franes from 1.2813, and to 1.1808 Canadian dollars from 1.1781. 
News from Washington that U.S. consumer spending turned higher in September and incomes grew briskly, despite the double blows of hurricanes Katrina and Rita, strengthenod the dollar. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A turnaround in per­sonal spending and a flurry of acquisi­tion activity sent stoeks higher Monday, but it wasn't enough to salvage a topsy­turvy month. The major indexes fell in October. 
A Commerce Department report showing spending rose 0.5 percent in September -reversing a 0.5 percent decline the month before -came as another sign of the economy's resilience following hurrieanes Katrina and Rita. La..o:;t week, the department reported bet­ter-than-expected 3.8 percent gross domestic product growth for tho July­September quarter. 
While the upswing in spending bol­stered the retail and technology sectors, Steven Goldman, chief market strategist at Weeden & Co., also linked Monday's rally to a broad recovery from last week's lows and typical end-of-the­month trading as hedge funds and mutual funds try to boost returns. He also eited strong gains in the European markets. 

"Basically we had market sentiment get a bit too one-sided," Goldman said about recent down days on Wall Street. "Stocks were getting in place to rebound." 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 37.30, or 0.36 percent, to 10,440.07, after adding as much as 83 points late in the session. 
Broader stock indicators were also higher. The Standard & Poor's 500 indox was up 8.60, or 0. 72 percent, at 1,207.01, and the Nasdaq composite index surged 30.42, or 1.4(> percent, to 2,120.30. 
Bonds advanced, with the yiold on the 10-ynar Treasury lhlling to 4.55 p1~mmt from 4.57 porcent Jato Priday. The dollar was mixed against most major curren­cies, while gold priees inched upward. 
Wall Street finished October lower despite baek-to-back trading days of sharp gains, closing out an erratic month when invflstors sold stocks on seemingly any data hinting at a slowing economy or a whiff of inflation. On Friday, the Dow climbed almost 173 points, ito:; biggest one-day leap since late April. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 
Tuesday, November 1, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
TIH lndrpemlnrt, DLJ.i/y Nt!WSpaper Servitl.f Nom Ihm~ anJ Sai111 M4ry's 
The path of the epicure 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROllER: Jim Kirihara 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(57 4) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department 'editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The &ee expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through f'tiday a:o:c:pt during <:xam and vacation periods. A subscription ro The Observer is $100 for one academic year; $55 for ont: semeJtcr. 
n1c Observer i~ publi~hed .u~ POSTMASTER 

014 South Dining Hall Send t~ddress Cl)rrccdom to: 
Notre Dame, IN 4655-6-0779 The Observer 
l'criodid poli~~e paid a1 None Oamc PO. Box 779 

and addiliomd mailing offict>,q. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Oh~crvcr is ..1 m~:mhc:r ofthe AAlXi.ued Press. All reproduction rights .uc: 
rc-,crvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Maddie Hanna Mike Gilloon Karen Langley Kyle Cassily 
Maureen Mullen Jay Fitzpatrick Viewpoint Illustrator 
Becca Rosswurm Robin Fallon Graphics Scene AlexaRae Mark Antekeier Bemenderfer 
Some people look for truth in life, oth-· ers for a higher cause. I quest for one thing: the aesthetic. The aesthetic is that which is beautiful out of its very nature and pleasing for its own sake. The path of the epicure will also lead one to truth through their very search for the aes­thetic. Whatever is beautiful is true, in so far as it is beautiful. Nothing can be more real than truth. Truth can come in many forms and its qualities and aspects can be observed in many sensible objects and ideas. Beauty is a subset of truth in that the aesthetic part of whatever is beautiful can be said to be true in its beauty. In my quest for the aesthetic, I ultimately do search for truth; yet through a more indi­rect, more pleasant manner. 
The arts and literature is a great reser­voir for the aesthetic, and the epicure draws beauty forth from them. Great books, poems or other manners of art recreate the spectrum of the human experience and induce a response that is profound and pleasurable. This recre­ation of our human experience is so beau­tiful and true because the art's beauty finds a rapport with the soul. I am not speaking of the soul necessarily in the spiritual manner, but as it is the non­rational component of the mind as opposed to the rational component, intel­lect. 
The soul contains our personality, emo­tions and character -what it means to be human. The liberal and fine arts con­nect with this and produce the aesthetic 

Ian Ronderos 
Liberated 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

pleasure that is so true because it con­nects with our very essence and nature. The reality of our existence adheres to the reality that is found within the art. 
The greatest form of art is the human being. Designed by natural processes or some higher power, the human is an incredible work of art that is aesthetic in more ways than any other creation. A person can be aesthetic in body, intellect, and soul. Other forms of art can be beau­tiful in their physical body, in their ration­al component or even move one's soul. 
However, no work of art actually has a soul within itself that contains the true height of beauty that is found within the human being. A person, who is physically beautiful, but corrupt and cruel, is super­ficially true in a manner; yet they are akin to a brilliantly shining apple that inside is rotten and filled with fetid worms. They are beautiful to behold, but if one should dig deeper, they would find themselves sickened and disgusted. The thin lining of the apple's skin cannot hide its true nature, nor can a person's mere appear­ance hide who they really are. A person beautiful within and without is much more aesthetic in that they have more components of the aesthetic. The soul is therefore the most aesthetic of all the components of the human. 
When a person finds another that they fmd to be aesthetic in all three of the components of their being, it is as if they are at a museum viewing of one the spec­tacular works of art. They stand in a state of awe and wonder at the pleasure of viewing such an aesthetic work. Love is this marvelous synthesis of aesthetic body, intellect and soul. As they get to better know the work of art they delve deeper into the others existence; finding first the body, then the intellect, and ultimately the soul of the other. Having reached this fmal pinnacle, the person has glimpsed at the most aesthetic element, and thus most true part, of the other and an understand­ing of truth emerges. 
Love is the clearest instance of truth being definitively found in the aesthetic. Love is the most beautiful of all emotions; it brings forth that sense of pleasure out of its very nature that is the definition of the aesthetic. Of all the things that bring forth this pleasure, love is the most vis­ceral and powerfuL Love is also certainly true; it is a state of experiential bliss that captures the reality of our being. 
It is what many use to direct their reali­ties, as they have found something more important to them than all else. Addictions may seem to master one's reality, but do not do so. Things that are of absolute truth are willful and not enslaved. An addiction is reality master­ing the addict. Love is one such thing. As love is a willful master of reality, it cannot be false, because the false is inferior to the true in that it does not actually have existence. Thus, as the love is the height of the aesthetic, and true, the highest form of the aesthetic does indeed lead to truth. If you should so will, follow me in the quest for the aesthetic and fall for nothing but the absolute best of people, drink the finest of wine, and listen to the best of song. 
Ian Ronderos is a senior majoring in the classics with a supplementary major in ancient Greek and roman civilizations. Having retired from the college republi­cans and adopting independent politics, he has entered the private life ofpeaceful contemplation. He can be contacted at irondero@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
Will you change your behavior based on the evictions at Turtle Creek and the stricter disorderly house ordinance? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

Submit aLetter 1tothe Editorat : 
i www.ndsmcobserver.com 1 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ideologies separate us. Dreams and anguish bring us together.·: 
Eugenelonescoauthor 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 1, 2005 page 9 
LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Comedy with consequence 
Ignoring the context 
I am the student stand-up comedi­dents were able to recognize, if an who wrote and performed the uncomfortably. joke criticized by Ashley Williams in I believe comedy ought to go the Oct. 31 issue of The Observer. beyond airline-peanut jokes. The 
It has been said that a good joke best comedians, the ones I idolize, requires no explanation. That said, I have turned comedy into a way to would rather go down as a lousy combat prejudice and the absurdity comedian than as a bigot. of class conflict through irony. This 
The joke, as written and roughly has been my guiding principle in told was: "Hosa Parks just passed three years of performing comedy at away, which I don't mnan to make Notre Dame, and it was the intention light of. She is an American hero and of the joke. I can't be held responsi­a c:ivil rights pioneer. BecausfJ of her, ble for those who would willfully mis­black Notre Dame students can sit in interpret my humor. My previously­the front of the dining hall." performed work proves my impa­
Anyone who has spent so much as tience with discrimination. a day at Notre Dame knows that this Williams selectively quoted my is, sadly. a self-segrngated campus. material and left out the portion of This is especially evident at the din­the joke that paid homage to Hosa ing hall -as was the point of the Parks, printed above. Parks was joke. It has been my experience, and merely a vehicle to discussion of a the experience of many others, that larger important issue crippling stu­we are greeted with strange or suspi­dent relations at this University, eious looks when sitting down to eat which hopefully begins now. with friends of a different race. That is th11 insensitivity and intolerance Will Seath horn. ltace matters, as Williams says, senior and it shouldn't, so I say. This was Morrissey Manor tlw point of' my joke, which most stu-Oct. 31 
Recognizing the value of others 
Ashley Williams questions whether dare to see one another as people of thn University community understands great dignity and worthy, to see one what sensitivity and tolerance mean another as ehildren of God. after hearing a joke about Rosa Parks at Fortunately, on the front page of the the Student Comedy Club and seeing a very same issue of The Observer, there pair of Ilalloween party-goers dressed are three examples of such people who as llurricane Katrina complete with a recognize the value of others. One story "victim," deseribed in her letter in the tells of students keeping alive the mem­Oet. 31 issue of The Observer, ory of Mara Fox, a student killed by a "Understanding sensitivity and toler­drunk driver in 1993, offering contin­anee." ued healing to her family and 
enough, The Observer itself drives the point Hall's weekend run ("Run home in the very same commemorates, raises issue with a funds"). Another ".loekular" eomie explains that students strip that stoops to a have been raking new low, insulting leaves for elderly women, nurses, neighbors, taking waitresses, I Jelen the time to knock Kellnr, people on their doors and with disabilities 
to say hello and ami men all at 
visit with them the same time, in 
("Students turn otlwr words, 
over a new leaf insulting all of 
with raking"). humanity in one 
And a third story, fnll swoop. about remarkable 
The portraits of women at Saint women in their Mary's who are "slutty" llalloween writing to death eosturnes present row inmates as part women essentially as of a project for their "sex toys" for men course on Catholic through their dress, their speech and their professions. ofl'ering a 
serviee professions into yet ;moth-dignity regardless of their actions er form of serviee, "sexual servidng." ("Class links students, inmates"). 
In addition, the third portrait outra­These three portraits of real-life gnously takes the figure of I Jelen Keller, examples of women and men who set a model of eourage and true vision for aside stereotypes and selfish desires in humanity, and presents her physical order to reaeh out to others in love and dmllenges as an oll'er for sexual manip­compassion, move us forward from the ulation. Finally. these portraits of terrors of Halloween to the hope of All womnn are demeaning to men, suggest­Saints' Day, providing a model of the ing that their sex organs are the eenter Beatitudes in aetion. Happy are they, of' their lives and happiness. Sueh por­blessed are they, holy are they. traits insult the many men and women in our eommunity who defy eultural Kimberly Baker pressures whieh define men as their sex graduate student organs and wonwn as instruments tor off-campus the pleasure of' said organs, but instead Oct. 31 
Missing the point 
When Ashley Williams, in her Oct. show. I felt a rush of relief, beeause 31 letter, "Understanding everyone got it. They understood the Sensitivity," quotes one line from a actual point I was making. Well, seven-minute performance out of apparently everyone didn't get it, context in such a way that morphs beeause I, like the other eomedian, its true meaning into something was approached after the show by hateful, I try to believe she does so people who found the bit hurtful. accidentally rather than maliciously. Again, these well-meaning patrons 
The comedian she mentions missed the point. I wasn't "spouting" brought up Hosa Parks to segue into hurtful language; I was making a broader theme -the willful self­observations about language and the segregation of many students (of all damage words can cause when used backgrounds), rooted in anxiety carelessly. Likewise, the other eome­toward people they perceive as dif­dian wasn't being raeist. but point­ferent. This performer is hardly the ing to the anxiety upon which raeism first to notice that many students is rooted. reflexively cling to soda! circles of Still, the vast majority of the erowd similar backgrounds as themselves. laughed-not out of insensitivity (or Sadly, an alarming percentage of laek of gall), but because they Amerieans are still ensnared in a understood the true intention of "separate water fountain" mindset. these "crude" observations and ree­This was the comedian's point ognized the reality that they illus­Thursday. lie was illustrating ironi­trated. cally the sad absurdity of this phe­Williams might have nasily nomenon. assumed there was another. less 
As a fellow performer that night, I scandalous interpretation than her feel obliged to defend him, since I own-rather than quiekly deeiding also delivered material that some that this performer was ignorant or found offensive. My material dealt bigoted, and that an audienee of thematically with language -more nearly 200 Notre Dame students was specifically, the most taboo words in equally bigoted or too cowardly to English, and how our eulture has stand up to prejudiee. But this inter­gradually grown numb to them. This pretation wouldn't have fit nearly as numbness to problematic and abu­conveniently with the rest of her let­sive words seemed like a perfect ter, would it? object for satire. I delivered the rou­tine (during which I fired off these Brian Berry words in all their forbidden glory). semor The crowd exploded with laughter, off-campus one of the best responses of the Oct. 31 
U-WIRE 

Katrina has a color schem_e 
The current state of race relations in Katrina disaster. Dr. Kamau Kambon this country is tragic and disheartening. called for the "extermination of white 
Hurricane Katrina and the subsequent people off of the planet." The leader of criticism of the Federal Emergency the event has sinee distanced himself Management Agency's (FEMA) slow and from the professor's eomments. inadequate response On balance, other black leaders like have brought the issue Jason Senator Baraek Obama have commented of race back into the Gray that FEMA's failure was "eolorblind," forefront of American mueh like the hurrieane. public discourse. The Daily Even with the more balanced state­
A recent CNN/lJSA Athenaeum menL<; made by some notable black lead­Today/Gallup poll West Wrginia ers, there appears to be, aecording to found that six in 10 University CNN's poll, the sentiment that raeism blacks found race to was the primary reason for the govern­be the primary reason for the govern­ment's ineompetenee. I can't even get the ment's failure in New Orleans, while only U.S. Postal Service to deliver my "Netflix" one in eight whites believed race was a DVDs in a timely manner, so it's eertainly faetor. This poll has exposed a deep rift not surprising to me that the government in racial perceptions in this country. I'm failed miserably in New Orleans. reminded of the lyrics of a classic song Why is this inflammatory rhetoric even by Buffalo Springfield: "There's some­deemed plausible by any in the blaek thing happening here, and what it is ain't eommunity, outside those on the extreme exactly clear." fringes or sanity? 
Subsequently, recent blaek celebrities My eontontion is that Americans, and social activists have been outspoken regardless of raee, feel for vietims of mis­in their criticism of the U.S. Government. fortune, and most Americans sufl'er 
During a live Ameriean Red Cross through the trials and tribulations or telethon for the victims of Katrina, hip­their neighbors. I was proud of the hop artist Kanye West notoriously stated aetions of many Amerieans in rngards to that "George Bush doesn't care about Katrina. The charity and generosity black people." they've shown, not just in monetary 
Also, Louis Farrakhan, leader of the terms but also in offering their time, Nation of Islam, took West's position a energy and prayers, vindicated my belief step further by suggesting that not only in the greatness of this eountry and its was the government incompetent, but it eitizens. was also complicit in the bombings of the levees which caused the deaths of thou­This column originally appeared on sands in New Orleans. Oct. 31 in The Daily Athenaeum. the 
Perhaps most outrageous was the daily publication at West Virginia statement made by a former N.C. State University. professor at lloward University's Pro­The tJiews expressed in this column are Black Media event, whieh was designed those ofthe author and not necessari~lJ to diseuss the media's coverage of the those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, November 1, 2005 

lsc~&1ib:Rnl 
How-to guide to being chic 
Fall fashion this year is all about an cover-up, a shrug ean be worn just about eccentric, costume-like drama. The fash­everything, as it proves equally stunning ion magazines fall previews are out, and with dresses as with jeans. they are more intimidating than ever. For a fresh party look, ehoose a llowy 
Any college girl is bound to wonder silk or chiffon-like tunic to fall below how she can pull off your waist. Then add a velvet trim shrug the same chic outfit for an eye-eatehing but not-too-formal that 80-pound model party pick. Long layered necklaces with in the picture is trinket-like charms flawlessly finesse wearing? After this ladylike look. perusing the.pages of For a easual daytime look, try the a massive pile of part-preppy, part-nautical inspiration of fashion magazines, it the season's military look, or why not has become painfully dress up a menswear ensemble reminis­dear to me that cent of posh prepster Katharine some outfits are Hepburn? You can join the army offash­strictly for print. ionistas donning the officer-inspired pea 
I am willing to coats and shearling-lined bombers this accept the fact that season or you can borrow from the boys we cannot all be with some extra chic cross-dressing. cover girls, but I am Get into some slouchy trousers or pair unwilling to admit a suitjaeket with a crisp oxford and that the Notre Dame girl is incapable of jeans. Finish the look off with a plaid or possessing any fashion know-how. Get in rugby-style scarf for a flawlessly classic the know, ladies, as I have narrowed eo-ed look. Preppy is far from boring this down this fall's top runways trends into 4 season as knee-high equestrian boots stylistic snapshots -Mod '60s, Richly and old school vests can keep you up-to­Romantic, Military and Posh menswear. the-minute. Play and have fun with your These looks can easily translate into any accessories for the ultimate vogue girl's daily Notre Dame escapades. menswear style. 
A trend forever returning the runways, Accessories take center stage this sea­and making its way into this year's fall son as jewelry and bags become inereas­season is the Mod '60s look. Bold prints ingly oversized. Big bangles, brave neck­and graphic detailing that remain clean laces and bold bags set fearless fall fash­and simple are reminiscent of chic Andy ionistas apart. Warhol heroine Edie Sedgwick. For the best in aceessories, take your 
Conveniently enough for this trend, eues from celebrity A-listers Jessica black has restored its place as a timeless, Simpson, Lindsay Lohan and Nicole universal classic. After a summer season Richie. These self-assured, fashion-savvy of bright, black has reemerged as the stars rely upon bountiful bracelets, essential fall color for just about every­chunky necklaces and handbags the size thing from jackets to accessories. Avoid of a Dodge truck to complete their being taken too seriously, though, and ensembles. Invest in oversized bags and mix various fabrics or include extra totes, as they have seemingly become the embellishments so as to transcend the ultimate status symbol. limitations of the basic black stereotype. But you can also find ways to recycle Be extra mod and liven up the look with the clothes you already have, with clever an accent feature such as a big beaded layering. Layering will stretch your necklace or belted waist. Remember, it's wardrobe and take your best basics year the bigger the better as waist-cinching round. The vintage style is more popular belts take precedence to those previously than ever and full of feminine bohemian hip-slung. glamour. Rummage through the 
For the girly girl, the richly romantic parental's closet or head to the thrift look should be your inspiration -plush store for baggy boho tunics. Layer them fabrics and jewel tone colors reign over sweaters and turtleneeks, then supreme. All things lace, ruffied and fem­aceessorize. inine are labeled Victorian this season as This season its all about having fun soft sheer blouses and plush velvet jack­with fashion. There are no limitations as ets prove their elegance. mix-and-match styles and fearless 
Move away from the traditional blazer, baubles verifY a certain fashion forward and try a stylish shrug, those charming savoir-faire. Happy shopping, ladies. little shrunken cover-ups which can be layered over everything from satin Contact Courtney Wilson at eamisoles to soft blouses and turtlenecks. cwilson6@nd. edu Available in just about every color and The views expressed in this column are fabric, beaded and crocheted, they make those ofthe author and not necessarily the perfect style statement. A quality those ofThe Observer. 

Photos courtesy of style.com, richton.com and Ebay.com Anyone can be fashionable with the right creativity. Practically any article of clothing can be turned into a trendy item. 
VIDEO GAME REVIEWS 
'Cthulhu' a wild, harrow 
uation. By MARK BEMENDERFER This creates several harrowing experi Assistant Scene Editor ences early in the game, such as navigatin! 
through a mansion of deranged cultists OJ 1 
1 
This is the best game you've never heard a riveting rooftop chasfl sequence over th1' of. town of Innsmouth. "Cthulhu" isn't a gam1 
"Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the where the player's sole purpose is to kil Earth" is a game that defies deseription. everyone in sight, and is better for it. Part survival horror, part first person The lack of a weapon for a good portim shooter, it transcends most of the estab­of the game also creates a greater sense o I lished boundaries of the current genres to satisfaction when the player is finally abl• ernate a new, gripping experience. to fight back against the antagonists. Bu 
The game puts the player in the the game doesn't magically transform int1 gumshoes of private detective Jack Walters "Halo" when guns fall into the player'! during the 1920s. "Cthulhu" immediately hand. Hunning haphazardly through thE throws Walters into the weird and unusual environments will lead to a quick and oft· with him being called into a negotiation repeated death. between the local police and a religious Detective Walters, as a protagonist, isn'1 cult. The negotiations go sour almost the most durable. If the player takes toe immediately, thrusting Walters into the much damage to a leg, it will break. When middle of a gunfight. this happens, Walter's speed is obvious!} 
This is where the first immediate depar­hampered with a notieeable limp. Eae ture from the standard genres comes into step is aecompanied by a creepy crunch. II play. Walters, despite being a private there are any deep cuts, they will need to detective, doesn't earry a weapon of any be sewn shut or Walters might bleed t sort. Nor does he pick one up for the first death. The game depicts damage very real two hours of gameplay. This forces the istically for Walters, but the same applie player to think of creative solutions to to his antagonists. problems, and shows them that the best But it's not just Walter's physical health solution can be flight from a dangerous sit-that is at risk in "Cthulhu." Much like 
"Eternal Darkness," the pro­tagonist's sanity is at risk. During the course of the game, the creatures associated with the Lovecraftian mythos make appearances. Much like the mythos, they often have very damaging qualities to the pro­tagonist's psyche. If too much stress is endured, Walters will begin to wildly whisper, hallu­cinate or even turn the gun on himself if things become too 
'Soul Calibur III' ap 
found. The good sword, the Soul Calibur,By MARK BEMENDERFER will arise to defeat the Soul Edge when 
Assistant Scene Editor 
the two meet. But realistically, not man} 
garners play fighting video games for thf Welcome to the stage of history. stories. What the plot boils down to i~ "Soul Calibur" die-hards will recognize that there are bad guys, good guys anc 
that quote almost immediately. Those very large weapons. 
who have never played should become The characters themselves are a wid€ acquainted with it immediately, as the and diverse bunch. They range from a "Soul Calibur" series is arguably the eur­giant axe-wielding golem to a bondage· rent king of its genre. wearing balding man. Each one is a deep 
The first way that "Soul Calibur" sets combatant with a variety of moves and itself apart from other fighters on the strategies to be learned. Newcomers to market is the setting. While games like the series shouldn't feel overwhelmed "Tekken" and "Mortal Kombat" are obvi­with "Soul Calibur III," as the developers ously set in a time close to the present, worked to create a more balanced, easier "Soul Calibur" distinguishes itself by plac­playing field. ing itself in medieval times. New to the series is the Chronicles of 
The story centers itself around two the Sword, a gameplay feature that adds swords, one good and the other evil. The role-playing elements. In this mode, the story is prominently based upon the evil gamer gets to create a fighter of their sword, the Soul Edge. Once it was part of choice from scratch, assigning a selected a set, but the second sword was shattered character class and giving them his 
and the shards spread throughout the choice of apparel. The player then takes land. Many fighters seek out the remain­his created character through a story ing sword-some for power, some for mode that is based around several war­wealth -but whatever their intention, ring kingdoms. As they progress, the cre­they become tainted by the sword if they ated fighter levels up and unlocks more 
succeed in attaining it. character classes and items for use in the There are some fighters that intend to different modes. 
destroy the sword though, if it is ever To that end, the game features a wealth of unlockable content that add to the replay value. There are a vast number of unlockable characters, as, well as parts for the "create a fighter,." feature. The created character can be used in the other game modes as well to fight the traditional "Soul Calibur" combatants. 
But the addition of the abil­ity to create a new fighter did not eliminate the importance 



THE 0HSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, November I, 2005 
page II 


ng experience for garners 
horrific. 
llownvnr, tho scares in tho gamo aren't dwap ones that leave the player shaking their !wad. Thn suspense is expertly drawn out, with thn game not tossing cheap scare after sntrn at the gamer. Although l.ovecraftian creaturns koep their presence just out or the playnr's view for most or the ganw, tlwir prnsnncn is strongly hinted at and hnr.onws that much more shocking wlwn thny do attack. When poor Waltors lwgins to lose his sanity, it seems a logkal path for sonwone in his position. 
To heightm1 the mood of ttw game, there is no onscnHm display for health or ammu­
eals to fans of genre 
gamespot.com Fan favorite Ivy, left, spars with Astaroth In "Soul Callbur Ill." This latest addition to the series features some of the best gameplay modes yet. 
nition. Guns have no aiming dot to tell the player where they are shooting. For rea­sonably precise aiming, Walters realistical­ly lines up the sights of the gun. These facets make the game more personal and rnal to the gamer, creating a thrilling expe­rience. 
This game has the potential to be the sleeper hit of the year. Although the odds are against it, there is no other game on the market as immersive as "Call of Cthulhu." 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
of thn already-established characters. Tho Talns of the Soul feature centnrs itself around the "Soul Calibur" staples. l·:adl of the characters gots his or her own ·branching storyline that adds depth to tlwir pro-existing backgrounds. This modo is also usoful for accumulating gold. which can then lm used in turn to purchasn new items and weapons. 
llowovor, the games genre can also be its biggest detractor. Fighting games only havn a lifespan that directly depends on the playllr's interest, which is often quite short. Beyond "Smash Bros. Melee," it's hard to find a fighting game that has real longevity for gamers. "Soul Calibur Ill" works to increase its duration in the gamer's active library, but despite all or the additions the essential gameplay is still fundamentally the same it has been from the start. 
For fans of the fighting genre, "Soul Calibur III" should be a high priority. For newcomers, however, this is an excellent place to start. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Glee club fall show a success 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Writer 

Despite its short history, the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts has already played host to sever­al big name and national performers. But Friday night, none other the beloved and home-grown Notre Dame Glee Club took the stage, playing its latest concert to a full house of both longtime devotees and first-time lis­teners. 
performers, as they 
freshman 

sang both "Ave Maria" and Maroon 5 's "She Will Be Loved" in the show's second half. This versatility is one aspect of the group's likeability and on-campus appeal. 
"I loved the show," freshman Meghan Shaughnessy said. "It provid­ed a mixture of classic songs with contemporary music." The blend of Glee Club standards sueh as "Darkness on the Delta" and 
newer selections "/loved the show. It tho IWAC was somewhat like "Ain-A That IPss prestigious than thoir
provided a mixture of
Good News" shook performance with the up any of the audi­classic songs with Jerusalem Symphony, tho ence's preconceived contemporary music." h i g h s tan d a r d s of' tlw i r expectations for the porformaneo regardless or evening. the vnnun display their
Meghan Shaughnessy 

The show's first skill and professionalism half consisted of freshman to an apprnciative audi­
more serious selec­tions, such as a musical version of William Butler Yeats' "An Irish Airman." While the series of Latin American pieces were interesting, they proved somewhat loss entertain­ing than the second half of the con­cert. 
A different selection of wartime pieces, such as "Johnny, I Hardly Knew Ye" and "Prayer of the Children," lent an aura of tradition and nostalgia to the show. Overall, however, the more solemn tone of the show's first half works made the con­cert's earlier portion somewhat less ongaging. 
Opening with a snries of folk songs and spirituals, tho concert's sncond portion changod tho tone of tho entire concert. The dear harmonies of' tho spirituals lent to an atmosphere or silent reverence, as "Daniel Saw tho Stone" and "Farewell My Friends" lnrt the audience marveling at tho beauty and power of' the club's voieos and range. 
A bit of fun was also thrown in by 
eneo. 
"!Tho eoneertl was 

amazing," freshman Michelle Garber said, echoing the feelings of' many of the coneert's attendees. "Not only wore their voiees beautiful, but tho choice of music was entertaining." 
Closing with the ultimate musical standard, the "Notre Dame Victory March," the concert proved to bo a successful evening for the hardwork­ing and talented men of the Glee Club. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
the interjection of' perform­ances of smaller groups with­in tho Glee Club. A quartet known fondly as the Wookios performed a selection from the Jungle Book, "What Friends Are For," garnering laughter and applausn. A dif­ferent offshoot, the popular Undertones, performed thn Maroon 5 ballad "She Will Be Loved" flawlessly. Those pieces added another layer or fun and interest to the fall concert, proving to bo major highlights of tho two-part evening. 

Tho Glen Club has boon undnr tho direction of' conductor Daniel Stowe for the past 12 years, and has eontin­und to garner recognition and sm~eoss under his leadorship. Tho group, in existence since I915, pnrf'orms local­ly, nationally and nvPn on tho intnrna­
tional level in multiple 
tours and concerts. 
While this latest show at 

Dressed in their traditional tuxedos and white gloves, the Glee Club mem­bers performed a refreshing blend of elassic pieces and modern hits. No genre proved too varied for these 
"{The concert] was amazing. Not only were their voices beautiful, but the choice ofmusic was entertaining." 
Michelle Garber 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
I page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 1, 2005 
I 
CLUB SPORTS 
Irish defeat College of Lake County for title 
Special to The Observer 
Men's Volleyball 
Notre Dame opened the sea­son in fine fashion by defend­ing its title in the Irish Invitational, staged at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center this weekend. In pool play, the Irish defeated Michigan State Green 25-17, 25-21, but then fell to Grand Valley State, 23­25, 25-22, 15-13. The Irish entered the tournament draw as the No. 2 seed in their divi­sion. 
With strong offensive attacks from sophomore outside hitter Dan Zibton and aggressive serving and defense from freshman Bryan Winther, the Irish defeated the Panthers of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 25-15, 25-20. In the semifinals, the Irish faced the winner of the other pool, Michigan State White. Junior middle blocker Joe O'Connell led the way as the Irish defeated the Spartans,· 25-22, 25-21, advancing to the championship game against College of Lake County. The Irish were aggres­sive from the start as junior opposite hitter Kevin Overmann proved to be the decisive player in winning the opening game, 25-20. Riding the momentum, the Irish cruised to a 25-15 victory in game two for a sweep and the title. 
The Irish will begin confer­ence play after winter break. 
Men's Water Polo 
Oh so close was again the cry as the Irish came up just short against Grand Valley State in the Great Lakes Conference championship. Notre Dame dropped a 10-9 heartbreaker on Sunday that was close throughout the entire contest. 
Steve Shepard, Pat Connors and Matt McNicholas all scored three goals for the Irish. Mike Silhasek, Greg 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles look to the future after a tough prem.iere 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA and 
BECKI DORNER 
Sports Writers 
Saturday proved to be a dis­appointment for Saint Mary's despite plenty of effort. The Belles began their season with hopes of proving that they would be strong contenders in the MIAA, but their meet at Olivet this weekend proved to be a difficult early-season test. 
"It was an important meet for us to realize where we current­ly stand and where we can work harder to improve," sen­ior captain Katie Dingeman said. 
The Belles' effort and per­formance was not reflected by the team's final outcome, the captains said. 
Though they fell to Olivet 98­13 and to Hope 89-11, each member of the team strove to improve. 
"For the first meet of the sea­son I was happy with the way I swam, and I think that others were happy with their perform­ances as well," captain Kelly Nelis said. 
Looking back at last season shows the Belles have potential for a successful year. They advanced to the MIAA Championship and finished in seventh place. Junior Katie Dingeman lead the team with strong performances in the 400-yard IM, the 200-yard IM and the 400-yard medley relay. Kelly Nelis was a key swimmer for Saint Mary's, competing strongly in the 200-yard medley relay and the 200-yard freestyle. The squad hopes to break last season's high times this year. 
The Belles step away from the defeats with gained knowledge and bright outlooks for the rest of the season. Their next chal­lenge will be this Saturday in a meet at Wabash against Rose­Hulman. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edn and Becki Domer at rdomer 1 @nd.edu 
Szewczyk and Scott Tagwerker anchored a solid defense and turned the Lakers away sever­al times even when shorthand­ed. Colin Dunn and Tom Fletcher were very strong off the bench and kept the Irish rested. 
In the quarterfinal and semi­final games, the Irish over­whelmed Toledo 16-3 and Ball State 11-3. 
Bowling 
Notre Dame opened American Heartland Bowling Conference play this weekend with a 24th place finish in the event hosted by Saginaw. Michigan State won the tour­nament. 
Jim Talamo's 187 was the high average for the Irish, fea­turing a high game of 211. Vance McClenton posted a 178 average, with a 191 high game. 
Dan Martin rolled a pair of 200 games and Van Koppersmith averaged 157, 

with a high game of 173. JB Bertumen and Tom Talamo averaged 146 and 131 respec­tively. 
Equestrian 
Notre Dame hosted an IHSA show at Taylor University this weekend. 
Kelsey Ostberg garnered first place in open fences as Caitlin Landuyt and Alie Minnis placed fifth and sixth in the event. Lauren Desrosiers, Julia Burke, and Molly Schmiege finished a strong second, third and fourth in intermediate fences while Hayden Piscal's fifth-place finish in novice fences was the club's top showing in that event. 
Ostberg, Burke, and Minnis also had strong performances in open flat, finishing 3rd, 4th and 6th respectively. 
Desrosiers and Schmiege earned 2nd and 3rd in inter­mediate flat, and Jessica Maciejewski took second in novice flat. 
Another Irish first went to Heather LaDue in advanced walk/trot/canter, with Alisha Wilkinson finishing fifth. 
Katie Sabella claimed fourth in beginner walk/trot/canter, and Courtney Hofman was the top Irish finisher in the walk/trot division. 
Burke's third and fourth­place finishes qualified the club's only senior for regionals later this year. 
Women's Ice Hockey 
Due to a broken water line, the game at Bowling Green was cancelled. No date has been determined yet to reschedule the contest. 
... Men's Rowing 
The men's rowing club par­ticipated in The Head of the Elk in Elkhart this weekend. 
Due to a problem with the official scorers, times and results will not be available until Wednesday at the earli­est. 
WOMENS INTERHALL 

PW triumphs over PE, 26-6 
By JAY FITZPATRICK and 
JASON GALVAN 
Sports Writers 
Midway through the second half against Pasquerilla East, Pasquerilla West cornerback Anne Fournie intercepted Pyro quarterback Leslie Follmer's pass and sprinted down the field for a touchdown to put the Purple Weasels up 20-6. It was the first of two interceptions thrown by Follmer that trans­lated into Purple Weasel touch­downs as Pasquerilla West easi­ly dispatched with Pasquerilla East Sunday 26-6. 
The offensive stars of the game were Purple Weasels quarterback Cara Davies and wide receiver Maureen Spring. The tandem connected for three touchdown passes on the day, including one in the first half to give the Purple Weasels a 7-0 lead. The second and third scores came in the second half to ensure the win. 
Fournie's interception came after the Pyros had shown some signs of life and were moving the ball well, but the pick ­along with fellow defensive back Brigid Bulfm's interception later in the game -put the fmal nail in the Pasquerilla East coffm. 
On the ensuing Pyro posses­sion after Fournie interception and touchdown, the dominant Purple Weasel defense stayed strong with a sack by Julie Putnam and Bulfin's intercep­tion. 
The Pyros did have one great play to look back on in this game: a 70-yard touchdown pass from Follmer to wide receiver Megan Conway. 
Despite the loss, Pyros head coach Patrick Rigney was not overly disappointed. 
''I'm still very proud of this team," he said. "After having no wins last year, we showed signs of life and were able to win a game. I am ecstatic about the turnout and the way our squad performed." 
Welsh Family 14, McGlinn 0 
McGlinn had not allowed any offensive points all season entering Sunday's game against Welsh Family. But the tables turned quickly and the Shamrocks were shutout by an inspired Whirlwind squad. 
A long touchdown pass from Melissa Sands to Jenni Gargola sealed the victory late in the final period and a spot in this year's playoffs for Welsh Family. 
They entered the contest with a 2-2-1 record and, with the victory, will now move on to postseason play. 
The McGlinn defense was unable to hold down two big plays, proving to be the differ­ence in the contest. 
Shamrock captain Bridget Meacham was displeased with the loss but was quick to recog­nize the strong play of the Whirlwinds. 
"We couldn't come up with the scores when we drove inside the 15 and things just weren't clicking our way," Meacham said. "The streak had to end sometime. 
"Welsh Fam just came out with a lot more intensity than we did." 

Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu and Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. ar tbe Notre Dame office, 024 Soutb Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves tbe right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
customer sales & service, two trumpet players to back us for a WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED-If you or someone you love needs 
Loving family seeking adoption. Will BLUE & GOLD HOMES. Best rates KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS 1 Tom, thanks for the offer, but I just Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 pay med. exp. etc, & give much for weekend, monthly & yearly SINGLE FAMILY HOME AVAIL-want to be friends. Days from $299! Includes Meals, 
WANTED love to a baby you bring into the rentals. 57 4·250-7653. ABLE. 140 N.SHORE BLVD. 3 MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, world. BEDROOMS,1.5 BATHS. GREAT Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! Call 269-429-3411 . Rooms in private home for rent dur-FOR PROFESSORS,STAFF, OR PERSONAL Campus Reps Needed! 
ing ND football weekends or other GRAD STUDENTS. CALL 315· PromoCode:31 www.springbreak-ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work Badass trumpeters needed: The ND-SMC events: 5032, ASK FOR KRAMER. travel.com 1-800-678·6386 $12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched-legendary Surreal McCoys are Call 243-0658. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do ules around classes, Gain exp. in reuniting for a local show -we need not go it alone. 
NOTICES 
TICKETS

Conditions apply, all ages 17 & late night gig. ROOM HOMES confidential support or assistance, older, Call Today 574-273-3835. Mariachi costumes a plus. MMMRENTALS.COM 532·1408 SPRING BREAKERS Book Early please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 
Call Shawn at 289·0909 and Save Lowest Prices Hottest 1-7819. WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX . NOW HIRING Have a car? Need • for details. House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. some extra cash? Jimmy John s is Gar. Clay Area. $700/mo. 574-210-TRIPS OR CASH FREE For more information, see our bi­
•
hiring drivers for all shifts. Contact 8308. MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. Chuck at 286-0299. Commission Best Travel Perks 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB-
FoR RENT 
KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-SPRING BREAK -SITE FOR$$: Ten girls from the Class of 2005 FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 426·7710 Early Booking Specials-FREE www. victorytickets.com looking for a place within walking YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM-Meals & Drinks -$50 Deposit • distance to ND to rent for the ments available for 06-07 school PUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UP TO 10 1-bedroom apt 1-mile from ND in 800·234-7007 BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT-Tennessee weekend. Call Andrea year. BEDROOMS. CALL 315·5032 ASK quiet historic neighborhood, BALL TIX.CHECK MY PRICES. at 651-308-9285. Call today 235· 7234. FOR KRAMER. $575/month. Call 283-0325 www.endlesssummertours.com 273-3911. 

Tuesday, November I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles ready to take on Alma 
MATTHEW SMEoDBIERGfrhe Junior Kristen Playko, center, bumps the ball towards teammate Talia Matury-Vacaro in an Oct. 11 game against Adrian College. Playko will fill the setter position in today's match up with Alma. 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Coming into the season with no setting expnrience on the ros­tnr, thn Saint Mary's vollnyball tnam knew it would have trou­hfo filling thn snttor position. 
Thny had no idna it would be this diflkult. 
Thn Bellns will nnter tonight's MIAA quartnrfinal match at Alma with Kriston Playko and Slwfly Bender selling. Neither has playnd the position this sna­son. 
Amanda David fill1ld tfw sntter roln narly in thn year, but an injury two wonks ago has fwr on tlw sidnfines. Midwlln Turley snt for thn last four matches, but a tnst. confliet will !"oren hnr to miss tonight's match. 
Entnr Playko and B<mdnr. 
Tlw two havn bmm a stapln in tlw Bnflns offnnse this season avnraging 3.4(J and 2.2H kills' por garnn rospeetively. But they havn only a combined three assists all season in confnrenee play. 
Belles coach Julin Schroeder­Bink knew the changes would altnr her team's approach. 
"Undergraduate Research in Arts and Letters: Opportunities for Students" 
November 3, 2005 5:00-6:30 Coleman-Morse Lounge 
The purpose of this forum will be to provide students with information about two important sources of fund­ing for undergraduate research-the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program and the 
Undergraduate Intellectual Initiative. Six undergraduate recipients of these awards will speak about theirexperience of writing proposals, 
conducting their research, and seeing their projects to completion. 
Sponsored by the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Office of Undergraduate Studies 
"ll ehanges our oll'nnse signili­eantly," Schroeder-Biek said. "We arn weaker in some areas, but stronger in others. We won't run as qukk of an offense, but we will have a bigger block up front. We are trying to look at the positives it will bring us." 
When asked why she ehose Playko and Bender to fill the hole at setter, Schroeder-Hick said she wanted to put two of her best players at the erucial position. 
"They are vocal and eompeti­tive, and they're two of my best athletes," she said. 
In addition to bneoming com­fortable with the new offense, the sixth-seeded Belles must overcome a talentnd Alma team that finished 12-4 in the MIM this season, including two 3-0 wins over Saint Mary's. 
Schroeder-Biek hopes the Bellns' defense will lead them tonight. In the midst of all the offensive changes, the Saint Mary's defense has been strong. Libero Anne Cusack leads the MIAA with 5.75 digs per game. She and the rest of the Belles have given the team additional kill opportunities with scrappy play all season. Schroeder-Biek hopes for much of the same tonight. 
"We just have to plug away defensively and keep the ball alive enough for our hitters to find holes in the block." she said. "In watching the game tape, we feel that's an area where we ean attack them, but we need to be consistently aggressive." 
The defense will face a tall task stopping Alma's Erin Fralick who leads the MIM with 
a .497 hitting percentage. Fralick hit .636 and .679 in two matehes against the Belles this season. 
Schroeder-Biek said her team was confident despite the adver­sity and was ready to make a strong upset bid tonight. 
"For us it is about stepping up into the ehallengos we are faced with," she said. "The team real­izes that a lot of these changes are uncontrollables. They are just rolling with it. I'm happy with the positive attitudes. They aron't laying down like some teams would. They are ready to face the ehallenge." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer1 @nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Saint Mary's one vvin fro111 record season 
By KYLE CASSILY Sporrs Writer 

Senior Carrie Orr will finish her collegiate soeeer career tonight in the season finalo against Kalamazoo, and she could not envision ending it with a more cohesive, hard­working toam around her. 
"I couldn't be any morn proud to play with these girls or be any more happy to finish it out with these girls," Orr said. "They've really made it fun for mo and I hopn they can carry on this tradition. If we play like we know we ean tomorrow, we will win." 
The Belles go into the game holding a 9-5-1 MIAA eonfer­enee record and a firm grip on third place. Never in Saint Mary's soccer history has a team finished the year with 10 league wins or in third-plaee. 
And a win at Kalamazoo would bring those accolades home and clear open a spot in the record books for the Belles. 
"We want it bad," Orr said. "In practice today, everybody was just so sharp, and so focused. We know what this means -that finishing the season the most highly-ranked Saint Mary's has ever been is huge for the team and huge for the school." 
Kalamazoo has the potential to be a thorn in the Belles' side, however. The last time the two teams faced, Kalamazoo took a 1-0 decision on Saint Mary's home turf. 
The Belles felt they eame out flat in the contest, a rnsult of two easy home wins against Tri-State and Adrian just prior to the game. 
Thank you Michelle McCarthy And Pangborn Hall 
ft__ for the Spookyfi-r Parents Night Out! 
Your favorite goblins on campus and their parents at University Village 
"We just havn to want it morn, that's what it comes down to," Orr said of what her team nends to do to win. "They're an aggressive tnam, thn fast timn we played thom they wnrn prntty nasty. They like to play dirty. We have to play aggressive and win <wnry ball, be th<l first to it, bn tlw dominators." 
The Belles are lnd by snc­

o rHI-year coach Caryn Mackenzie, thn first Saint Mary's soccer 1~oaeh to rnturn for a second snason in over five years. Mackenzie has been all business in driving the Belles into the upper stra­ta of the MIAA eonfernnee and tho players have reacted well to her diseiplined approaeh. 
"Coach has done just a roal­ly good job of keeping us in fine and trying to make the tnam lit the best way it could," Orr said. "She's donn a good job of adjusting to our oppo­nents. She knows the gamH and she wants to win. She's good for Saint Mary's." 
Orr will reflect on her four­year career with fellow sen­iors Shannon Culbertson and Maura Sehoen. The three have combined for an 1H-11-2 record under Mackenzie's tenure. 
"This season as a whole is honestly the best season of my four years bec.ause we just gelled so well," Orr said. "The personalities and attitudes are just so compliant. We all get along really well. We workod hard and hnrn we are almost in third plaee. And if wo win tomorrow it will just be ieing on the cakn." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.cdu 


2blocks Nof Corby's 574.233.5000 

MAI)IS()N 0YST'ER BAR 
Open Sundays from 6-12 


lcRAptsl 
w/ Student ID 


1733 South Bend Ave. 57 4.277.2527 

2046 South Bend Ave Across from Martins Plaza 272-1766 
MONDAY All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets, Monday Night Football on HDTV 
TUESDAY ND penny night, $1 off cover with student ID, OJ all night, 1¢ wells and drafts 
WEDNESDAY Live trivia night with cash prizes and free drinks, 1 to 8 people per team, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Defending champs: ND law Legal Eagles. 69¢ bitty burger, 49¢ wings, $10.00 buckets 
.EVERYWEDNE$0AY 
75¢ 
Well Drinks 
$2 
ENORMOUS 
Basket of Fries 

GREAT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT EVERY NIGHT!!!! 
100 N. Center St. Mishawaka 
---~I-IIII. •
t __ ........... 
(behind Hacienda) 
~l •
(574) 259-7522 
1 1-'*<4<1-. ~.....~ 
THURSDAY Every Thursday Private Party for ND, HC and SMC students 2nd Penny night. 1¢ wells and drafts, DJ plays hits all night long 
FRIDAY DJ till 3:00a.m., pre-game warm up 
SATURDAY Game day· Go IRISH. DJ after games, celebrate victory and boogie till dawn. ESPN game plan 
SUNDAY $1.50 burgers, dogs, fries and bottles. NFL Sunday tickets · 14 screens. 
www.rumrunnersusa.com 
.. .. ·.···.· .·. .. ' 
EVERY THUf!~AYa 
$2 
ANYdrink 
in the house!! 
OPEN MIC NIGHT!! 
Come play or sing on stage with our entertainers 
Monday: Karaoke Night, $2.50 House Special 
Tuesday: $1.50 Domestic Bottles $2.00 Wells 
Wednesday: Trivia Night, $3.00 Pitchers 
Thursday: $2.00 Imports 
Sunday: $10.00 Domestic Buckets 
Kitchen Open Every Day Daily Grill Specials: M-Th 4pm-3am Fri 11am-3am Sat 4pm-3am Sun 11 am-12midnight 
574.234.4015 
~Q)J_;Ifvl 
IRISH PUB 
IJa EST. 1990 ~ e-.u-.e ~ ~.(9-... ~ 
TuESDAYS AND ThURSDAYS: 
$3.00 PITCHERS $I .00 DOMESTIC DRAFTS 
NO COVER! 
$1.00 CANS EVERY DAY OF SELECT DOMESTICS 

AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November I, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
MLB 

Women's Volleyball Top 25 
lt'QIIl record points 
1 Nebraska (57) 21·0 1,497 2 Washington (3) 20·0 1,441 3 Penn State 21·2 1,381 4 Stanford 20·3 1,301 5 NOTRE DAME 20-1 1,237 6 Florida 21·2 1,099 7 Louisville 21·1 1,094 8 Arizona 16·4 1,039 9 Hawaii 17·6 967 10 Wisconsin 17-4 912 11 Santa Clara 20·1 895 12 Brigham Young 20-0 863 13 Missouri 16·3 814 14 Texas 16-3 798 15 Purdue 20·3 707 16 Southern California 11-7 612 17 Minnesota 18·5 526 18 California 14·6 460 19 Ohio State 15·6 451 20 Ohio 22·2 346 21 UCLA 11-8 219 22 San Diego 16·5 177 23 Wichita State 21-2 152 24 Kansas State 15-7 123 25 Maryland 22·1 102 
Big East Men's Soccer 
team record points 
1 USF 9·2·0 27 
2 Connecticut 7·3·1 22 
3 St. Johns 6·2·3 21 
4 Cincinnatti 6·3·2 20 
5 Seton Hall 6·3·2 20 
6 West Virginia 6·4·1 19 
7 NOTRE DAME 6·4·1 19 
8 Villanova 6·4·1 19 
9 Georgetown 6·5·0 18 
10 Rutgers 5·4·2 17 
11 Providence 3·3·4 13 
12 Syracuse 3·7·1 10 
13 Louisville 2·7·2 8 
14 DePaul 2·8·1 7 
15 Pittsburgh 2·9-0 6 
16 Marquette 1·8·1 4 
Big East Women's Soccer 
team  eonforence  overall  points  
NOTRE DAME  10·1·0  17·2·0  30  
Connecticut  10-1-0  14·3·2  30  
Marquette  9·2·0  17·2·1  27  
West Virginia  7-2·1  11·4·3  •  22  
Villanova  6·1·3  10-5-4  21  
Louisville  6-5·0  11·8·0  18  
Rutgers  5-6-0  10-9-2  15·  
Georgetown  4·6·1  12·8·1  13  
DePaul  3·5·3  5·8·4  12  
Syracuse  3·5·3  4·12·4  12  
Seton Hall  3-6·2  7-7-4  11  
Pittsburgh  3·6-2  4·11·3  11  
USF  2·6·3  7-7·3  9  
St. Johns  2-7·2  6-10·3  8  
Providence  1-8·2  5-11·2  5  
Cincinnati  1·8·2  3·11·4  5  

around the dial 
NHL 
Chicago at Detroit 7:30p.m., OLN 
NBA 
Denver at San Antonio 
8:00 p.m., TNT 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
UAB at Memphis 
7:30p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 
BOSTON -At 31, boy wonder Theo Epstein was ready to step out on his own. 
The Hed Sox general manager walked away from his hometown team on Monday, stunning Boston and the baseball world just one year after helping the franchise win its first World Series championship since 1918. 
"I gave my entire heart and soul to the organiza­tion," Epstein said in a statnment. "During the process leading up to today's decision, I came to the conclusion that I can no longer do so. In the end, my choiBe is the right one not only..for me but for the Hed Sox. 

Epstein will continue working for a few days to assist in the transition and prepare for the offseason. 
The Boston llerald, which lirst reported the news on its Web site, said the Yale graduate has told associ­ates that he might leave baseball, or at least take a year off. 
The Dodgers, Phillies and Devil Hays have GM open­ings, but none has a $120 million payroll to match the one Epstein was given in Boston. 
Onco the youngest GM in baseball history and still the youngest to assemble a World Series champion, Epstein was reportedly offered about $1.5 million a year for a three-year exten­sion. That was quadruple his previous salary but still short of the $2.5 million the Hed Sox offered Oakland's Billy Beane in 2002 b£1forn . hiring Epstein. 
But even after the money was settled, the negotia· tions turned into a fierce and Freudian standoff between the boy GM and the mentor who nurturnd him from an intern to a World Series champion. By leaving, Epstein breaks a longtime link with Hod Sox president Larry Lucchino, who hired him as a Baltimore Orioles intern and brought him to San Diego and then Boston. 

The llerald said Epstein went through "agonizing soul-searching" over oflke politics and his relationship with his boss. Published reports that. c~ontained inside information about their relationship, "slantnd too much in Lucchino's favor," !wiped convince Epstein there had !wen a breach or trust. the llerald said. 
IN BRIEF Culpepper to miss remain­
der ol season with knee 
injury 
MINNEAPOLIS -An already dire situation got worse for the demoral· ized Minnesota Vikings with confir· mation Monday that quarterback Daunte Culpepper will miss the rest of thn season with a devastating injury to his right knee. 
Culpepper, a threP-timn Pro Bowl pick coming off a career year whose effectiveness had fallen of'f dramati· cally this season, tore his anterior cruciate, media) collateral and pos­terior cruciate ligaments in Sunday's 38-13 loss at Carolina. 
Once the swelling subsides, the 28-year-old Culpepper will have surgery and several months of arduous rehabilitation. An injury of this nature typically takes a year to recover, but at least right now the Vikings are optimistic about his sta­tus for 2006. "Our expectations are he's going to be ready for the sea· son," athletic trainer Chuck Barta said. 

Big names enter baseball's 
free agency market 
NEW YORK -Baltimore's Sammy Sosa filed for free agency Monday along with World Series star Geoff Blum and Chicago White Sox team­mate Carl Everett. 
Sosa was a bust in his first and likely only season with the Baltimore Orioles, who acquired him from the Chicago Cubs in February with one year left on his $72 million, four-year contract. Thn 36-year-old outfielder, fifth on the career list with 588 homers, was limited by injuries to 380 at-bats and hit .221 with 14 homn runs. 
Blum's 14th-inning home run gave the White Sox a 7-5 victory over the Houston Astros in Game 3 of the World Series last week and helped Chicago to win in a sweep. The reserve infielder was acquired from San Diego on July 31. 
Everett was 4-for-9 in the Series after hitting .251 during the regular season with 23 homers and 87 HBis. 
Advanta Tournament 
starts up in Pennsylvania 
VILLANOVA Mashona Washington beat follow American Meghann Shaughnnssy 6-2, 5-7, 6-2 on Monday night in the first round of tlw Advanta Championships. 
"It was a tough match," Washington said. "I knew I had to stay calm and just stay in thnrn because I was serving well, even after she took tlw second set. I'm just glad to be in the rwxt round." 
Washington advanc:ed to face Tatiana Panova of Hussia, who upset eighth-seeded Jelena Jankovic of Serbia-Montenegro in three sets 6-4, 3-6, 7-5. 
Also advancing to the second round was Klara Koukalova of the Czech Hepublic, who rallied to beat American Ahsha Holle 0-6, 7-6 (5), 6-3. "I played so bad early on," said Koukalova, who lost the first night games of the match. 
"I didn't get in here from Europe until Saturday and I didn't get a chance to get used to the surface." 

Siegfried running back Matt Theo Ossei-Anto. But the ball Wopperer had nine carries for was fumbled and recovered by
Knights 

90 yards and quarterback Steve O'Neill's Cormac Harkins. ·continued from page 20 
Uphaus threw 4-for-8 for 80 Harkins went untouched into the 
yards as the Ramblers had 184 end zone for what seemed to be Kevin Tooke had two big catches yards of total offense, outgaining a touchdown to put O'Neill with­and the offense was moving well the Manorites by 48 yards. in one score. However, the score before the Knights' Scott Morin Morrissey's defense, however, was brought back due to a block­stepped in front of a pass for an cashed in some clutch plays to in-the-back penalty. O'Neill had interception and ended the keep the game close. Dan Kiesa· the ball on the 18-yard line, but threat. kept the game tied early by two incompletions and two sacks 
Even though tht~ Knights won, intercepting a pass intended for by Bob McQuiston later, the the players seemed to agree it Bolden at the Morrissey one­game was over. was far from their best showing yard line, while Bush had two Penalties also hurt O'Neill on as the Sorin defense was able to third-down sacks to force punts. Zahm's first scoring drive. The contain Keenan's powerful run­Bush also blocked a Siegfried Rabid Bats used a steady rushing A Keenan running back muscles for yards against the O'Neill ning game. field goal in the third quarter attack and a pass interference defense during the Knights' 12-0 win over the Angry Mob Oct. 13. 
"Running is normally our that would have given the penalty to drive into O'Neill terri­bread and butter, we just could­Ramblers a three-point lead. tory. However, they faced a them." end zone. n't get it going today." Keenan's "I really don't know what hap­fourth and 12 on the 14 and Hughey wasn't too down about Carroll failed to convert on the Adam Fischer said. pened on special teams, because decided to go for it. Wieland's the loss for the Angry Mob. extra point, and Dillon got the 
He attributed the struggling usually that's one of our best pass fell incomplete, but Zahm "We had a great season," ball back with the score tied. The ground game to a teams, but today kept the ball thanks to a rough­Hughey said. "We didn't accom­Big Red ran 12 straight running poor week of prac­we just weren't ing the passer penalty on O'Neill. plish all of our goals, but we did plays, employing everything from 
'This was a real
tice. In a postgame there mentally to Three plays later Wieland found get into the playoffs. That's the the option to the shovel pass, cul­meeting the team emotional win ... keep our blocking tight end Seth Freiesleben for a first time O'Neill has done that. minating in a 6-yard Duffy seemed deter­assignments," touchdown to put Zahm up 6-0. I'm defmitely proud of them and touchdown run. Dillon failed to
We are the team of 
mined to prepare Bolden said. The Rabid Bats sacked Hughey the way we competed." convert the extra point, so
destiny.,
better for next Morrissey got on three times on the next drive to Carroll got the ball on the 35 week's matchup. the board first force a turnover on downs at the Carroll 13, Dillon 12 with an opportunity to take the The Knights will Mark Bennett when Nick Klein Zahm 25. Two plays later, Carroll's defense bent but did lead. face off against punched it in from Wieland found Kris Patterson not break in the first half, hold­After a 25-yard pass from
Carroll wide receiver 
Carroll next 2 yards in the sec-down the right sideline for a 72-ing a powerful Dillon offense led Wilmot. to receiver Paul Sunday for a ond quarter to cap yard touchdown reception. by running back Alex Duffy to Tassanari, Wilmot trotted in for a chance to play in Notre Dame a 62-yard drive. Ossei-Anto ran in the 2-point two field goals and buying its 5-yard score and the win. Stadium for the second straight Siegfried quickly tied it up on conversion to make it 14-0. offense time to find its groove as Johnson then proceeded to score year. Sorin finished its season its next possession when Uphaus Hughey, when he wasn't being the Vermin defeated the Big Red the extra point and give his team with a 2-3 record and will have connected with Bolden for a 21-sacked, found holes in the Zahm Sunday to advance to the second the lead. to wait until next year for anoth­yard touchdown pass with 39 secondary through the first three round of the men's interhall "Even though the touchdowns er chance at achieving interhall seconds left in the first half. quarters, going 7-for-7 for 93 playoffs. don't reflect it, our offensive line glory. Though the season is over yards, but was 0-for-6 in the Dillon started the second half and tailback won us this ball­
sooner than he had hoped, final quarter after Zahm adjust­with the ball and a 6-0 lead, but game," Johnson said. "We didn't Morrissey 13, Siegfried 7 Bolden has no regrets. ed its defense. the Carroll defense came out expect to win this game by run­
With 23 seconds remaining on "I wouldn't change anything Zahm's offense stalled in the fired up and forced a three-and­ning, but we did and we're on to the clock in a tie game, and his about this season," he said. "We second half, only picking up one out. The Vermin took over and the next round." team on the Siegfried 1-yard had a great team, great guys ... I first down. handed ofT to Johnson three con­Carroll's Bennett was ecstatic line, Morrissey captain Nick just wish we had won this game. "Hats off to their defense," secutive times. after the game. Klein wasn't about to let the It's nice knowing that my last Rabid Bats assistant coach Joe On a disputed spot resulting in "This was a real emotional win Manorites squander an opportu­year of playing football was with Waddington said. "They ham­a Vermin first down, irate Dillon for our players, coaches, and fan nity for a first-round playoff vic­such a great group of guys." mered us on the line and got fans got into a war of words with community as we are the small­tory Sunday. pressure on our [quarterback]." an official and cost the Big Red a est dorm," he said. "We are the 
"I knew this was gonna be our Zahm 14, O'Neill 0 "This wasn't our best game," five-yard penalty. On the next team of destiny." last shot to get in the end zone, The Rabid Bats' defensive line Gourley said. "We are 0-0 again. play Wilmot completed a 63-yard and a field goal is a lot riskier recorded seven sacks as the sec­If we lose, we go home and touchdown pass to wide receiver Contact Dan Murphy at than punching it in, so I saw the ondary bent, but never broke, to Morrissey [which defeated Mark Bennett, who caught the dmurphy6@nd.edu, Jack hole and just launched myself preserve Zahm's shutout over Siegfried 13-7 in its quarterfmal ball in stride between two Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu, into the end zone," Klein said. O'Neill in the first round of men's game] is a tough, physical team. defenders at the 20 and didn't Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu and 
The touchdown ended a 44-interhall playoffs Sunday. Three So we have to be ready for look back as he cruised into the Ben Vincent at bvincent@nd.edu yard scoring drive and put times Zahm forced O'Neill to Morrissey up by six, sealing the turn the ball over on downs victory over Siegfried. inside the red zone as it 
The winning drive was started advances to play Morrissey in when a bad snap combined with the second round next weekend. Morrissey pressure forced star Trailing 14-0 after the half, 
Thit1l<it1g About Yoc~r Summer?
kicker Pablo Nava O'Neill had the ball to boot the ball ofT on its own 20-yard the ground instead line after forcing
"Mentally, we were 
Tl1ir1l<it1g AboLJt Doitlg Set--vice?
of picking it up Zahm to go three 
and dropkicking it. and out. O'Neill
a little too excited The play resulted for the game. , began a drive deep in a 17 -yard punt, into Zahm territo­
Want to Cut Your Tuition? 
giving the ry as quarterback
Marques Bolden 
Manorites excel­Matt Hughey was 

Siegfried captain 
lent field position. 5-for-5 for 51 
~UNIVERSITY OF Siegfried had its yards passing on 
If you're 

~NOTRE DAME 
chances of a win-the series to get to 
Alumni Associat:ion
ning drive negated by a ten-yard the Zahm 17-yard line as the 
thinking to 

holding penalty with 13 seconds third quarter came to a close. 
left. its fifth penalty of the game. But the Zahm defense made 
yourself... 
Then

"Mentally, we were a little too some adjustments before the excited for the game and we fourth quarter started. 
Come&

overplayed too much on little "We moved up our corners and things like the count and hold­played tighter on the receivers 
y 

5 
Hear
ing," Siegfried captain Marques and jammed them at the line," 
Bolden said. "Not to take away Zahm captain and safety Pat from Morrissey because they're Gourley said. 
y About a 
a really good team, but we The adjustment worked. 
&. 5 

could've been more competitive Hughey threw two incompletions 
Great 

if we did the little things." to start the fourth quarter, was Morrissey dominated ball con­sacked by Jake McDonald on 
Opportunity:

trol during the game, putting third down, and threw incom­
together several long drives. plete on fourth and 11, giving 
Yes 

The Manorites had nine first Zahm the ball back. downs and went 3-for-3 on On the ensuing drive, Zahm, fourth down conversions. facing the wind, decided to fake 
"We have a lot of confidence in a punt on fourth-and-24 from its 
Summer Service Lectrning
our line to buckle down and own 15-yard line. The play push for a couple of yards, and gained 20 yards, but failed to we have a great fullback in Steve pick up the first down and [Klein] who can push it in when O'Neill had the ball on the Zahm we really need it," said Nick 35. But their hopes of a quick Klein, who rushed for 86 yards score were dashed when Eddie on 19 carries. Gutierrez intercepted Hughey on 
Novernber 2 
Novernbet~ 8
Klein went on to personally the 20. credit his offensive line of John Despite this setback, all hope 
7:00 -B:OO Pl'v'\ 6:00 --7:00 PN\
Bush, Joe Walker, Stephen Dias, was not yet lost for O'Neill. With 
SOCIAL

Anthony Cunningham, Joseph 1:44 left, on their own 23, Zahm 
ConxJ Lounge CSC ClCJssroom 
CONCERNS

Unis Jr. and Michael Kaiser for quarterback Sean Wieland 
helping him gain 86 yards on 19 dropped back and threw a later­
carries. -al in the slot to running back 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 1, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

adult life to this program and is you a fresh outlook. I've never friend and has good insight and quarterbacks coach Peter Vaas not only a true Volunteer and an been afraid to make player understands us and how we try to was hired to replace him on June
Sanders 
continued from page 20 
his own -coupled with the sea­son-ending injury of senior start­ing running back Gerald Riggs, Jr. have undoubtedly contributed to the poor offensive performance. 
But Volunteers head coach Phillip Fulmer isn't about to point his linger at a single culprit for the unit's ineffective play. 
"This has been a very diflicult season for everyone, especially Randy," Fulmer said in a state­ment. "By no means is the result of the season any one person's fault. Randy has dedicated his 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
rebound the other team by 10, and I don't see us doing that right now." 
The Irish take on Division-11 University of Indianapolis in their first exhibition game of the year tonight at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. As of Monday night, McGraw said she was still 

"We're trying to
unsure as to who were added to was going to start find that group help fill out what for the Irish, and would have been a
that really starts 
therefore, 10-player roster. 
clicking."
tonight's matchup As for would be a good Indianapolis, the opportunity to get Greyhounds fin­
Muffet McGraw 
a feel for the ished last year
Irish coach 
strong lineups. 
"We're looking at combinations," McGraw said. "We're going to play a lot of dif­ferent lineups. We're trying to lind that group that really starts clicking." 
About the only sure thing for the Irish this year is senior point guard Megan Duffy, who was an honorable mention All­American selection last season after averaging 12.3 points and 
5.4 assists per game. She was selected to the preseason All-Big East team last week at Big East Media Day in New York, and has earned numerous preseason awards after playing in the shadow of now-graduated Jacqueline Batteast her first three years with the Irish. 
But besides the senior point guard, the rest of the Irish line­up is unclear. Junior Breona Gray, who started last year, is hurt and won't dress for tonight's game. She is still a cou­ple weeks away from being back, McGraw said. 
In the mix, however, is sopho­more center Melissa D'Amico, senior forward Courtney LaVere, junior forward Crystal Erwin and guards Lindsay Schrader and Tulyah Gaines. McGraw said that Erwin would be limited to five minutes a half tonight due to injury, and Gaines is still nursing an injury. Meanwhile, sophomore guard Charel Allen, named to the All­Big East Freshman team last year, is still limited in her play­ing time as well after suffering a torn ACL and MCL in the final game of 2005. She is likely to play tonight, but will be limited 
Write ...,..

·=­
Sports. 
1--4543. 

outstanding coach, but a great friend." 
Fulmer has an offensive back­ground, serving as offensive coor­dinator for the Volunteers from 1989-91 before being named head coach in 1992. Earlier in his career, he was the offensive line coach at Wichita State in 197 4 and from 1977-78. 
In the end, Sanders hopes the relatively abrupt announcement will provide a clean state and rejuvenate a stale offense. 
"This is a decision I felt I need­ed to make," Sanders said. "Sometimes as a coach changing the lineup on the field can give 
to about live minutes per half. 
"She's going to sleep on it and make sure she feels comfort­able," -McGraw said. "Right before the game, she may say 'Tm not ready," but at this point, we're expecting to play her." 
With Gray, Gaines, Allen and Erwin injured in some respect, the Irish were forced to add two walk-ons to the already thin ros­ter this fall. Freshmen Brittney Bolden and Christine Trezza 
with a 22-10 

record overall and a 12-8 record in the Great Lakes Valley Conference -good for a third place finish. They lost in the NCAA Division II Regional semifinals to end the 2005 cam­paign. The Greyhounds return just four players from that team, not including their top three scorers. Junior Amanda Norris is their leading returning scorer, and the 5-foot-10 forward aver­aged 9.9 points and 6.4 points per game while starting all 32 games for the Greyhounds. 
Tonight's game is the first of two exhibition games for Notre Dame before the season-opener against Michigan Nov. 18. The Irish face Ferris State Nov. 10, concluding the exhibition sea­son. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
changes to try to stir things up, and I'm not above changing my situation to stir things up. I hope this will give our team the shot in the arm it needs to get back on track for the rest of the season." 
Notes: 
+ Fulmer said he has had con­tact recently with David Cutcliffe, Sanders' predecessor as Tennessee offensive coordinator. 
"David and I have talked a time or two during the course of the year, and he's been out to prac­tice a time or two," Fulmer said. "He's obviously a very knowl­edgeable coach and a very good 
Five 
continued from page 20 

Centers Erik Condra, Christian Hansen and Justin White, goal­tender Jordan Pearce and Regan stuck with Notre Dame despite the coaching switch. 
Each player came to South Bend with accolades from both high school and the United States Hockey League. 
"I think the USHL prepared me well as far with the speed and skill," said Regan, who played the last three years with the USHL's Waterloo Blackhawks. "It's obviously a step up and the players are top-notch players, bigger and stronger." 
Regan also noted other differ­ences, including the officiating at the NCAA level. 
"With the amount of penalties that are being called, especially the last couple years, in college, opens up the game a lot and makes the power play more important," Regan said. 
The newcomers have made quite an impression on the Irish. 
Condra has registered five assists in the first four games of the season while Regan scored his first career goal in the victory over Princeton Saturday. 
Pearce has made perhaps the biggest splash of all, starting two games and shutting out the Tigers to earn his first career win Saturday. The victory was also the first of the season and the first in 22 games for the Irish. Even for the freshmen who didn't go through last year's painful 5­27-6 season, beating Princeton was a major step forward for the 
Ta eK plan. Score higher. 
LSAT GMAT GRE MCAT DAT-
Classes are starting soon! 
GMAT starts 11/2 GRE starts 11/6 LSAT starts 11/28 
Enroll today & save your seat! 
Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back.. 

1..SOO*KAP·TEST kaptest.com 
Test Prep and Admissions ~ 
~ 

•W~ !'IWf~ ~!"l:f~ \ll:l!~<vlCl<~ :;r: l!'«<-~ r««,»>:~v:l< <-••(-..bt'!l:$!~ !r~r'i~lf!Wo ~ I«""~W8U'#!~l'W" •><I$K:Iktt (l::($'41«'l'»>l(0#. tf Wlf.lt ictjf.U:~U~clll'-/1~ ~ ~~ ":S>xF. ~~~d·->Xo\' -l(~+ ~>) 1'..:'~:¥1 :'>.Ml'~~l\ ~~ Wt;l~""*lt~>;ol>J '/oi!!wl ~W~'I~ '$!~~ ~K: l.':.w~ "'"> 
do things. We won a lot of football games when he was here, but as far as any schemes, we really haven't talked that much at all." 
Cutcliffe resigned his position as Notre Dame quarterbacks coach on June 1 after having heart bypass surgery. 
He became head coach at Mississippi after leaving Tennessee in 1998 and was announced as Irish coach Charlie Weis' choice for quarterbacks eoach on Jan. 4 after being fired by the Rebels after the 2004 sea­son. 
Cutcliffe never coached in a game for the Irish and current 
program. 
"[The team's] a lot more posi­tive," Regan said. "That's what happens when you're winning. The first one is the hardest to get, especially with the little streak they had going, although we don't talk about that any­more. We've got one and now w~'re just. tr~!ng to keep going With the Wins. 
The Irish face Michigan in a home-and-home this weekend. But beyond this season and the game with the Wolverines, the Irish Class of 2009 hopes to bring Notre Dame hockey back to 
3. 

+ While Fulmer hasn't had much of an opportunity to devel­op a professional relationship with Weis, he certainly respects the first-year head coach. 
"I have watched him from afar, but I have not gotten to know him at all," Fulmer said. "I watched him with the Patriots, and obvi­ously, you have to be impressed with what he's gotten done there at Notre Dame. He's done extremely well at the places that he has been." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

assists this season with five, grew up outside of Detroit but has bounced around the country the past few years playing for several junior teams. When he commit­ted to Notre Dame in the spring of 2004, he was playing for the Texarkana Bandits of the North American Hockey League, but he spent the 2004-05 season playing with the Lincoln Stars of the USHL. He was second on the team there and eighth in the league with 60 points on the sea­son. 
Hanson comes to South Bend 
from McMurry, 
Penn., where as a 
where it was in 2003-04, when the Irish made  "We're working hard ... to put  freshman he led Peters Township High School to the  
the NCAA tour­ Notre Dame on the  state  champi­ 
nament. "We're work­ map.  onship. He played for the Tri-City  
ing hard together  Storm of the USHL  
to turn the pro­ Garrett Regan  and won the covet­ 
gram around and  Irish left wing  ed Curt Hammer  

put Notre Dame on the map," Regan said. "Just playing togeth­er and working hard I think we'II hav~. a good chance of doing well. 
Jackson's first class of fresh­men has the credentials to make Regan's prediction a reality. 
Regan came to Notre Dame from Maplewood, Minn., where he Jed Hill-Murray High School to a second-place fmish in the state tournament as a junior. In his three years with the Waterloo Blackhawks the team won a USIIL title and a Clark Cup as the national junior champions. So far this season for the Irish, he has scored one goal on just seven shots. 
Condra, who leads the Irish in 

Trophy as the league's "most gen­tlemanly player." 
He has eased smoothly into the collegiate game as a center, win­ning two thirds of his face-otis. 
Pearce, who jumped onto the scene with the shutout of Princeton, spent two years in the United States National Team Development Program and also played with Condra for the Stars. So far this season he leads the team in save percentage and goals-against-average. 
White, who saw his first ice time of ·the season against Princeton, played for the Sioux Falls Stampede of the USHL. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Siz;;,le'ne (Sizzlelini®) ­On Tuesdays, get our specialty 
for TWO for only $10.95! 
A sizzling skillet of tender chicken. savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B~-Iefie (Bellini)­A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 


----_l 
Tuesday, November 1, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 

CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Fly catcher 
1 Eller of 33 Sister "Oklahoma!," for 
34 Plant firmly
one 36 Last Olds ever
5 Striped made
swimmer 38 Peace offering
9 Signs of 
#2:" " 
boredom 42 Plumber's

14 Dagger of old gadget
15 Folkie Guthrie 43 Ill-tempered
16 Cultural values 44 Haifa's land:
17 Mouth, slangily 
Abbr. 18 Pastry finisher 
45 Heed the 19 Piece of the 
coxswain action 

48 Bleat 20 Peace offering 49 Great Society
#1:"_" 

initiator's inits. 23 Normand of the 
silents 
52 Toupees, slangily

24 Mini-dog 54 "Hogwash!"
25 Grounded speedsters 56 Cathedral topper
27 Hayworth husband 58 Peace offering Khan #3:"_" 
28 Satisfied sounds 62 Laces into 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

63 Have the nerve 64 Trident-shaped letters 65 "Who's there?" 
reply 66 Blue-pencil 67 Alternative 
digest magazine 68 Flows slowly 69 Wall Street inits. 70 The "P" of PX 
DOWN 1 Inhaler target 2 "Can you 
believe it?!" 3 Just around the corner 4 Home on the range 5 Can of worms, maybe 6 St. Louis 
landmark 7 Winter hazard 8 Blue feeling 9 Polite reply from 
a ranch hand 10 Dumas 
swordsman 11 "How's tricks?" 12 Like some soda 
bottles 13 157.SO from N 21 Hoosegow 22 Needle feature 26 _-cone 29 SHO alternative 30 Do some quilting 32 Ship stabilizer 34 Caribou kin 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

35 Sot's symptoms, 42 Round Table 53 Snail mail for short title attachment 37 of the land 46 Web address 55 Apple-polisher ending 
57 Toaster type fiberglass 47 Like some 38 Wrap in 59 Fr. holy women 
dummies39 Generous gifts 60 'Trinity" author 
49 Deceives
40 Center of activity 61 Where to put un 50 Gray matter chapeau
41 Division of history 51 Trendy travelers 62 Towel stitching 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CUPAN 
I I I 

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
BEOAK 
rJ [] 


j 
READING THE
tYEUFLE 1 
ADVERTISING SIGNS ON THE ROAD MAP L-EFT HIM--­
J I I 
www.Jumble.com 
~ YASMID 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: r 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: BLAZE CREEL VASSAL BECAMEYesterday's Answer: 
What the postal clerk sought when she went online for a date -"MALE" CALL 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Adam Horovitz, 39; Peter Jackson. 44; Jane Pauley, 55; Dcidre Hall, 58 
llappy Birthday: You have way too much going for you this year to allow setbacks. You can do nothing about the past. but you can take advantage of the opportunities of the present. Nothing will come easy, but the stmggle will make your victory that much, sweeter. Your numbers arc I, ll, 22, 25, 31, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The more you have to mullitask, the more you will thrive today. You will find new ways to increase your income and a chance to do something that will put you in good standing. Don't let friends or relatives rain on your parade. *** TAURUS (April 20-Muy 20): Don't make a big deal out of things today. Do something to improve your surroundings at home. Don't he afraid to do things a little differently at work. A creative approach will impress people. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take advantage of whatever career moves you can make. A partnership will tum out to.bc more intense and have greater potential than you first thought. A small business opportunity will develop. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will surprise everyone with your changeable attitude. Someone you are close to will be threatened by what you want to do. A chance to make a career move is apparent and must be taken seriously. ** U~O (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let criticism set you otT. That will he a waste of time. Make plans to do something special with someone you like. Activities that promise adventure and excitement will bring the greatest satisfaction. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Home may be where the heart is, hut today you will have to be careful where you hang your hat. Not everyone you live with will be on the same page as you. Keep your thoughts to yourself. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A change will do you good. Emotional matters may surface, but ifyou talk things through, much can be resolved. This can tum into a new beginning that will be in your best interest. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone will be watching your every move. Don't expect this person to reveal his or her intentions. Follow through with your plans, but don't overdo it in any way. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Changes at home will be to your benefit even if you don't see it that way initially. A love connection will develop into something special. Money matters can be taken care of, but don't overspend. 
**** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone you least expect will stick his or 
her neck out for you. Be grateful but don't be too quick to do the same in return. 
You aren't likely to please the people you are close to. ** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): There may be a lot of good things happening 
in your life on the surface, but it's up to you to make sure you arc taking care 
ofpersonal business. Be honest with yourself and don't exaggerate about the way 
things really arc. •**•* 

PISCES (Feb. 19-M arch 20): Moneymaking ventures look promising, but don't jump in until you have done your research. There may he more than one otTer on the table. The one that is most unusual should prove to be your best bet. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are unique, empowering and live very much in the moment. You are an action person who is ready to defend, honor and obey when need be. You have style, stamina and the wherewithal to laugh al your own mistakes. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfOrfun, eugeniala'il.comjhr co~(tdenlial consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City __________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, November I, 2005 
page 20 
HOCKEY 

Jackson's five 

PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer Left wing Garrett Regan looks up the Ice dur­Ing a 2-0 Irish win over Princeton Saturday. 
Freshman icers making immediate impact for new Notre Dame coach 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
In the midst of last spring's resig­nation of Notre Dame head coach Dave Poulin and tho hiring of current head eoaeh Jell' .Jackson, five players sif.,rnnd on to play fi1r the Irish. 
The coaching changn shook up the Irish program significantly, but fresh­man left wing Garrott Rngan said he never faltered in his deei<>ion. 
"I liked Coach Poulin when I talked to him when he was recruiting me. but that wasn't the only reason I wanted to come play here," he said. "When I saw Coach Jackson was hired I was pretty excited just because of his resume. lie's got a lot of wins under his belt in a lot of leagues, whieh is exciting. lie's a winner and he's proved that." 
see FIVE/page I 8 


MEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Knights sn1ack Sorin, advance to semifinals 
Zahm blmzks O'Neill, Siegfried silenced by Manor in first round 
By DAN MURPHY, 
JACK THORNTON, CHRIS 
IliNE and BEN VINCENT 
Spom Writer~ 

Tho snrond-sPPded Knenan Knights wen• able to shut down Llw "run and gun" Sorin oll"ensn to win thnir first round playoff ganw Sunday by a smn~ of 14-0. Safety Adam Fisdwr intnrceptnd a pass at the end of the fourth quarter to snal the dnal. The piek, which was the Knights' third of thn day, capped ofT another solid dnfensive perform­ance for Keenan. 
The Knights' ofl'nnse relied on its workhorsn running back, Alnx Staffieri, and big plays out of Knnnan's rneeivnrs. Stallieri ran hard all day for the Knights, car­rying tho ball 16 limns and eflec­tivPly running down the dock in the seeond half'. Quarterback Hob Coly was only 3-lilr-11 pass­ing, but those three eompletions wore all big plays -the last of' whieh being a 60-yard touch­down pass to his favorite target, Dan Zenker. Znnknr caught the ball on a fade route and show­boatnd his way into the nnd zono giving the Knights a 14-0 lnad. 
The team's first touehdown canw on its opnning drive and was aidnd by Zenker and fellow rnePiver .John Wanok. Wanek's 15-yard slant route brought Knnnan down to tlw 3-yard linn, and two plays later Coly was able to punl'h it in li1r the seorn on a quarterback sneak. Al'lor a suceessful oxtra point the Knights worn out to an early 7-0 lead. 
Sorin's ol'f'nnso onen again struggled to movo the ball. Tho Otters failed to lind the end zone for the third time this season. Despito having good field posi­tion throughout most of the eon­lost, the lack of a eonsistent run­ning game kept Sorin under 75 yards of total ofl'ense on the day. 
Late in the first half the team bngan two eonseeutive drivns in Kennan territory. But both ehances endnd with quarterback Stu Mora throwing interceptions after being hurried by defensive pressure. The second pick halted what looked to be Sorin's best ehanee to get on the seoreboard and tie tho game. Wide receiver 
see KNIGHTS/page 16 
a 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
D-II Indy to tip off vvith Irish 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sporrs Writer 
In Notre Damn's first ganw of the season, Irish eoach Muf'f'et Md;raw has two things for her tnam to eon­centrale on -del'1~ns!~ and rebounding. 
"Thosn are thn two things we talked mostly about IMondayf." MeGraw said. "Wn've got to be great defnn­sivnly -we'vn got to rebound. That's a big wnak­ness we have right now. That's my main concern, I just think in order to be sue­enssf'ul, we have to out-
see IRISH/page 18 
FOOTBALL 

Sanders steps down at UT 
Offensive coordinator resigns, willfinish out year as Vols' QB coach 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sporrs Editor 
Handy Sanders resigned Monday as Tnnnessnn's ofl(msive eoordinator but will finish out the ynar as quartnrbacks coach, leaving play-ealling dutins to be handled by tho remainder of' the ofl"nnsive coaches. The rnstruc­tured staff will lead the Voluntners against Notre Dame Saturday. 
"It's with a heavy heart that I have chosen to relinquish my position as ofl'ensive eoordina­tor," Sanders said in a statnment about the role he has held the past six-and-a-half seasons. 
''I've spent the past 22 years of my life at Tennessee. This place means a great deal to me and always will." 
Ranknd No. 3 in the preseason Assoeiated Press poll, the Volunteers have failed to live up to expectations in 2005. Following a heartbreaking 16­15 loss to South Carolina last Saturday -the Voluntenrs had downnd the rival Gameeoeks in each of their last 12 meetings ­Tennessee dropped out of the AP top 25 poll this wnnk for thn first time in three years. 


"Everyone has worked very hard this year," Sanders said. "No one anticipated us being where we are. Clearly some­thing needs to be done." 
Playing solid and at times spectacular defense, Tennessee has struggled to rnateh that sue­eess on the ommsive side of the ball. 
I leading into Saturday's show­down with the Irish, the Volunteers haven't seomd more than 15 poinl'i since they posted 27 against a mediocre Ole Miss squad Od. I. On two occasions this season, Tnnnnssen f'ailnd to seorn doubln digits, rneording a lone touchdown in a 16-7 loss to SEC rival Florida Sept. 17 and booting only a field goal in a 6-3 loss to Alabama Od. 22. 
A quartnrback controversy -Hiek Clauson has played in all sevon games this season, tossing three touchdowns and four intnrcnptions, while Erik AingP has taken the field in five eon­tests, throwing a pair of' touch­downs and four interceptions of 
see SANDERS/page 18 

en 
CLUB SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL
SMC SOCCER 

SMC SWIMMING 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
w

1-
(.) 
PW 26, PE 6 
Welsh Fam 14 
Men's volleyball takes 
McGlinn 0

Squad falls to Olivet
BPiles travel to Alma 
Saint Mary's hopes to 
Irish Invitational title at 

Purple Weasels dominate 
and Hope in MIAA
garner school-record
tonight in first-round
a: 5 z 
Rolfs over the weekend. 
Pyros in Mod Quad

dual meet action over 
Shamrocks shut out by

= 
MIA A tournament 
lOth conference win at 
rivalry. 
rolling Whirlwinds. 

the weekend. 
action. 

Kalamazoo.
= 
a.. ~ cc 
page 12 

page 12 
page 12

page 13 
page 13 
page 12

en 







