
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Keough freshman remembered in donn mass 
Friends, classmates honor Kish's memory 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
llan Kish. tlw IIJ-year old Notre llame freshman who died early Saturday morning from heart surgPry complica­
tions,  was  living  on  "bor­ 
rowPd timl'."  
But. lw madl' the  most of a  

lifl' that lw knew could be short, Keough riH~tor Father l'ntnr Jarrnt said during a rnnmorial Mass hPid for Kish in thn dorm's ch;qwl Tuesday night. 
"Corning to Notre Dame was probably a risk" for Kish, who received a heart trans­plant when he was a sopho­more at Penn High School in Mishawaka and know he would soon need another, .!arret said. But in Kish's mind, it was a risk worth tak­ing. 
"Living in a coeoon proba­bly would have been easier, but Dan didn't want to do that," .!arret said. 
Instead, he eame to the 
see MASS/page 6 



Students buy texts on Internet 
Lower prices, resale opportunities draw students from bookstore 
By JOliN EVERETT Nt·w' Writt·r 
<;rumblings about the prkns of textbooks at the rampus bookstores at Notre llarnn and Saint Mary's are so common they an~ deeid­Pdly elir.lu\. 
This senwster. many stu­dnrrts continue to turn to growing numbers of lntnrnnt sitos in search of lwtter deals. Tho impact of online hook rntailing on rampus textbook sales n~mains undnar. 
Ilamnws Notre I>amo Bookstore director Sally Wiatrowski knows online sitns are beeorning inereas­ingly popular, but bdioves thn bookstorn is competi­tive. 
"Wn seareh for used books first and have the buybaek program to pass savings along to the stu­dents and rnmain price­eompntitive," Wiatrowski said. 
Wiatrowski credited the rise of online sales to stu­dents' Internet savvy. She also noted now textbook prices arn set by puqlishors "who are publishing new editions to undercut the used-book market." 
Saint Mary's Bookstore director Mike Hicks recog­nizes the competition and is interested in getting the students the books they nend at a n~asonable price. 
"Some books are over­priced, and when that hap­pens we'll recommond stu­dents to look l'or a better pricf1, but students have to realize that online they may not get the right book, espndally when a new edi­tion comes out," he said. 
Both directors stressed the importance of faculty in the textbook buying process, stating tho sooner professors tell the stores which materials students will need l'or their elasses, the better it will be for the students. 
"We have to facilitate the faculty, and order the books the professors want," Hicks said. 
Prol'essor Sara Maurer, ol' the English department, said she understands how costly books ean be, and always tries to take that 
see BOOKS/page 4 
Panel discusses racial issues 
By PETER LEAHY Nl'ws Writl'r 
ThP fif'l' of' Martin Luther King .Jr. was rPIPbratl'd in the CoiPrnan-Morsn Center TuPsday in tlw Town llall nwPting Pntitlnd "And Still We I! isI' .. . I! n m P mlw ring is Not t·:nough." 
l.nd hy l!irhard Pinren, assistant din~l'lor of African AmPrican Studios, Notrn DamP studPnts joirwd in tlw OfH'II forum to discuss issues that King was passionate about. Topir.s rangPd from the i111 pact and reasons for stnrnotyptlS, divnrsity on cam­pus and in thP U.S. and why it snnms likn peopln of the same races sit. logPlhPr at tlw din­ing hall. 
Studnnts nott~d that sterno­types an~ an intngral part ol' human naturP, a way for pen-
sec KING/page 4 


SMC increases efforts to 111eet enroll111ent goals 

By MEGAN O'NEIL Assistant News Editor 
After disappointing admissions numbers in 2004, Saint Mary's College is back on eourse this year and dose to reaching its recruitment goal of 1,000 applicant'>. 
The numbers thus l~tr are eonsis­tnnt with past years but the applicant pool itself is strongnr than in 2004, said Mona Bown, intorim direetor of admissions. SAT and ACT sc~ores have risen eomparnd to thosn ol' last year's applkants. 
"We already have 700 appfieants, and our goal is 1,000," Bowe said. "But we are well on our way alrnady." 
Though admissions ol'liccws arn waiting for applications l'rom stu­dents who will apply to Saint. Mary's rngardless of' rneruiting dl'orts, Bowe said they arn also pursuing studcmts who may not have eonsidnrnd Saint Mary's one of their top choices. 
"Probably one of the biggest things wn are doing is that we are sending a seeond application mailing," said Bowe. 
Saint Mary's is snnding out 7,000 applications to high S<'hool studnnts in thn nnxt coupln of weeks. The Saint Mary's marknting dnpartnwnt. paid for tlw rights to rnprodueP a Nov. 1 Chicago Trihurw art.ide rna­turing sueeess story alumnae Diann Aigotti, tlw trPasurPr ol' Aon Corp., which will ac~eompany tlw applica­tions. 
H0eruitnwnt has always hewn a c·.onr.ern for tlw small wonwn's eol­lngn. llownvnr, t.hP drop in the size of this ynar's frnshmnn dass, by about 50 students, has causPd Pwn more~ worry. 
College Prc~sidPnt Carol Mooney citnd raising thn national profiln of' tlw collngn and improving rncruiting tndmiquns as sonw of hnr goals. 
Thn Saint Mary's admissions oflkn has rnspondml to an ever-changing rec~ruiting arnna by making dmngns to its stratnh'Y· 
One of the most notable is tho addition ol' tho Vmag, a virtual online magazine sent to prospective stu­
see RECRUIT/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Tin1e to let go 

It's time to finally let go. Recently, I lost something that was a part of my life, but, after nearly two months of searching, worrying and sleepless nights, I think saying goodbye is the . 
only thing left for EriC Retter me to do. Two weeks 
Sports

before 
Production Editor
Christmas break, my black Pacific Cyclone, the bicycle I had had since sixth grade, went missing. Although this loss meant that I had no speedy campus travel and was forced to wake up 12 minutes earli­er for class, a tragedy in itself, I was even more distraught about the terrifying experience my poor bike must have been going through. Thinking about it wandering about all alone on our cold campus or, worse yet, chained to some God-for­saken lamppost without acce~s to any maintenance and abandoned by everything it's ever known tore at my heart. Like a boy who had lost his pet, I immediately hit the pave­ment, searching out the spots on our familiar campus that we used to frequent together, but my bike was nowhere to be found. 
There's an old saying: "if you love something, set it free. If it comes back to you, it's yours; if not, it never was." Because what I set free is a bicycle and not a living being of any kind, I don't think that saying applies to my case, but at the same time, it's comforting to think that perhaps one day I could be reunited with my old friend. 
I can still remember the day it became mine. For my birthday, my mom took me to K-Mart to pick out a bicycle, and there it was, destiny. We took it home that day, and the rest, as they say, is history. 
Another thing that is history is the fact that, perhaps because of the suspect quality of their wares, that particular store stopped selling bicycles shortly after my purchase. 
To be sure, the bike had its share of physical problems. While the ubiquitous flat tires were somewhat of a nuisance, the oft-rusted chain and brakes that didn't always work were flaws that gave the machine some character and added excite­ment to an otherwise mundane ride to class. Even though the pedals had begun locking up from time to time and I realized I was the proud owner of a death trap, it's still hard to say goodbye, especially without ever saying goodbye. 
So please, if you see the bike that used to be mine going the other way on your walk from Turtle Creek or maybe lying in a ditch some­where, think of me and remember my loss. 
And if you insist on doing the "right thing" and returning it, please fix that chain first. I don't want to hurt myself again. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Jan. 18 edition of the paper, the Saint Mary's 
Student Body Vice-President was quoted as saying 
the due date for Women Honoring Women nomi­
nations is Feb.24. The deadline is actually Jan.24. 
Due to a production error, Notre Dame women's track and field jumps/throws coach Scott Winsor was incorrectly labeled in a pull-quote in Tuesday's paper. 
The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE CLASS SO FAR AND WHY? 




Adam Cummins  Rebecca Cashore  Justin Doyle  
sophomore  senior  junior  
Keenan  Welsh Family  Dillon  
"C.A.P.P. courses  "Logic -I'm  "Prof Carl  
because we get  just like that.  Ackerman,  
to play with the  Don'tjudge  Finance, gave  
computer."  me.  tests in gorilla  
'  suits and  
covered himself  
with water  
during  
lectures."  

John Welsh  Brad Laney  Alexandra Pennington  
senior  sophomore  junior  
off-campus  Alumni  Pasquerilla East  
"Freshman  "Instrumental  "I hate 'em all."  
Seminar-the  Conducting. It's  
Rev. Gary  'Flapping Your  


Hamburg stumbling into desks." 

Cops round up critters after crash 
ROSE CITY, Mich. -Police spent Tuesday morning rounding up a host of four­legged fugitives turned loose after a truck delivering them to northeast Michigan pet stores collided with a tractor. 
Neither the truck driver, Joseph Morey, 28, of Gaylord, nor tractor driver Garrick Griffith II, 21, of Rose City, was injured in the 7:10 a.m. EST crash, state police at Gaylord said in a statement. 
State troopers, Ogemaw County sheriff's deputies and Rose City firefighters collect­ed black scorpions, tarantula spiders, guinea pigs, tropical fish, feeder mice, rats "and 
TODAY 
a:: 
assorted reptiles and insects" at the accident scene, the statement said. 
Fox blurs cartoon rear end on FCC complaints 
LOS ANGELES -Fox says it covered up the naked rear end of a cartoon character recently because of nervous­ness over what the Federal Communications Commission will find objectionable. 
The latest example of TV network self-censorship because of FCC concerns came a few weeks ago dur­ing a rerun of a "Family Guy" cartoon. Fox electronically blurred a character's posteri­or, even though the image was seen five years ago when the episode originally aired. 

"We have to be checking and second-guessing our­selves now," Fox entertain­ment president Gail Berman said Monday. "We have to protect our alliliates." 
Fox hadn't gotten any com­plaints about the cartoon. But the move follows the FCC's decision in October to fine 169 Fox stations $7,000 each for airing an episode of "Married By America" that showed people licking whipped cream from strip­pers' bodies and a man in his underwear being spanked by strippers. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
....1 
<C 
(.) 0 




...I LOW 29 LOW 14 

22 15 


26 6 

Atlanta 48 I 33 Boston 28 I 23 Chicago 36 I 27 Denver 62 I 42 Houston 67 I 51 Los Angeles 82155 Minneapolis 251 14 New York 28 I 25 Philadelphia 28 I 24 Phoenix 79 I 52 Seattle 58 I 50 St. Louis 43 I 32 Tampa 63 1 45 Washington 30 124 
Armsfor Credit."' 
IN BRIEF 

Notre Dame assistant music professor John Blacklow will present a concert Wednesday from 8 to 9:15 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Center for the Perfi>rming Arts. 
The Center for Social Concerns is holding a Social Concerns Festival Wednesday from 7 to 9 
p.m. in Center for Social Concerns classroom. The festival is an event similar to Activities Night, where local agencies from around the community will encourage Notre Dame students to get involved in service. 
Welsh Family will present the Welsh Family Dance Show from 
7:30 to 9 p.m. Friday and Saturday in Welsh Family Hall. 
Siegfried Hall will hold a Dance-a-Thon Friday night from 9 p.m. to midnight in Stepan Center. 
The Late Night Olympics returns to the JACC for its 19th year on Saturday. Sponsored by RecSports, the event will run from 6 p.m. to 4 a.m., and fea­ture dorm teams from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's compet­ing in an all-nighter of sports, fun and fundraising. Profits will benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
Brian Shanley, associate pro­fessor of philosophy at the Catholic University of America, will give a lecture Thursday on "Aquinas' Exemplar Ethics" from 5 to 6:30 p.m. on the sev­enth floor of the Hesburgh Library. 
., 

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


17 14 

Wednesday, January 19, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Online registration successful at College 
By APRIL THOMAS 
News Wrill'f 
LPMans flail's Staplnton Lounge sat dark and Pmpty .Jan. 11. whnrn sl.udPnts oncn Iinne! to orlieially rnallirm thnir prestmcns at Saint Mary's Collngn. 
For Lhn sneond eonsnculive Sl~nwstnr, sl.udtml'l worn asked to nnroll and updatn addresses through the sanw securn onlinn program -I'HISM -also usnd to acn~ss roursn j.,tradns and finandal aid inliwmation. 
Saint Mary's CollPgn Hngistrar I.orrainn Kitdmnr said the switeh to online nnrollnwnt was a move toward grnatnr studnnt eonvmi­innw. 
"Studnnl<> mn rngistnr any tirnn, fmm any computnr." she said. 
l'rovidnd sludenl<> enroll within tlw given o1w-wenk limn frame, Llwy don't havn to bn pr<~s<~nt on campus to prodairn thnir attnn­darwP. For sonw, this nwant an PXI.I~ndml brPak-if only filr a day. 
"I loggnd on from homo this ynar and was ahln to come Monday night instnad of Sunday," said I·:mily Crinsmnnr. a Saint Mary's sophomorP. 
Wlwrnas tlw previous system asked studnnls to apJHHtr in SlapiPton during a spncifk 15­minutn window. according to stu­dnnl<>' last namns. PHISM nnroll­lllPnl has no such alphabetie n•quirPm<~nL<>. 
"This systmn ndinvns the urgmtey to gnt thorn within a spec­ifind time period," Kitehner said. 
"Wn wantnd to makn it nasinr on 
studnnl<>." 
Tlw increased convenience. 
though, has not allbetnd thn num­
bnr ofstudenl<> who miss tho dead­
line, but Kitchner rnmains opti­
mistie. 

"Wn have always had to track 
studenl<> down anyway," Kitdmer 
said. 

This ynar, many of those who 
nxpnri(meed problems had mis­
placed thnir PIN numbers to 
access the I'HISM system. A<> with 
the prior nnrollmcnt method, timn­
ly complntion is vital for students' 
rneognition with tho National 
Student Clearinghouse for loan 
dnlimnent. 
To protnet students, encourage 
cooperation and aid the Hegistrar's 
ollice, pnnaltios will bo charged to 
late nnrollnrs. 
"Af'tnr .Jan. 19, a studnnt will bn assnssod $25 foe and dropped from all dassns until sho enrolls in pnrson," Kitchne1· said. "Waiting ..too long to enroll risks studnnts' 
standing with loans." . 
Mnanwhile, students like Saint 
Mary's junior .len I fanion will con­
tinue to nnjoy the new frnndoms 
online enrolhnnnt can bring. 
"This past snmnster it actually 
allowed mn to go down to Indiana 
University to visit a friend for hnr 
birthday and not have to be back 
until Monday," Hanlon said. 
Contact April Thomas at thom3549@saintmarys.edu 
Farley Hall redecorates TLC style 
Pop Farley week kicks off with 'Trading Spaces' in dorm bathrooms 
idea again this year at a hall By TRICIA DE GROOT council meeting. Arter dorm News Writer approval, rules and deadli1ies for the competition were set up. Each seclion had to submit lnspirnd by The Lnarning their plans before the winter Channel's hit show Trading holiday, remain within the $200 
Spaens, Farley's Finest decided budget, to kick ofT their signa­ture Pop "With only $2oo to Farley week 
spend, a lot of 
with their 
energy went into
very own, "Farley Hall price-comparison 
Trading and thinking
Spacns." 
creatively. " 
Each see­lion was given a budg­Allison Traynham et of $200 to 
resident assistant 
decorate the other sec­tion's bathroom on its floor, and the winner for the best renova­tion was announced Sunday at mass. 
Currnnt sophomore Paige I familton suggestnd tho idea at thn end of last year as a way to bring the dorm together and make the bathrooms a little morn decorative. 
"I got the idea when in the bathroom one day and realiznd how depressing they were," Hamilton said. "I thought walk­ing into a happy bathroom would make your day, and I thought it was something the girls could do tognther." 
Sophomore Elizabeth Cuda, Farlny's dorm improvement commissioner, suggested the 
use only latex paint, complete a niee, neat job and eleanup its respective bathroom afterwards. 
The bathrooms hadn't been painted in over 12 years and the dorm decided to tap into funds left by former resident Patti Kwiat, who was 
killed in the TWA flight 800 crash in July 1996, to 

spruce up their dorm. 
"People are used to exceeding aeademieal­ly and athletically, but this required a whole di!Tenmt set of skills," Farley rectress Sister Carrino Etheridge said. "It was nice to give a vehicle for other peo­ple to express them­selves." 
Each section was given money before 
"With only $200 to spend, a lot or mwrgy went into prien­eomparison and thinking cre­atively," resident assistant Allison Traynham, l(!adnr of tlw winning "Zen Sanctuary" bath­room, said. 
In true "Trading Spaces" style, the girls had to move out of their snetion bathrooms and were given from (, p.m. Friday until 6 p.m. Sunday to complete the project. 
"I asknd nveryone to work a two-hour shirt, but somn of them put in over night hours of time," Traynham said. "With the right altitude, motivation and lots or planning, a projeet 
"/ thought walking into a happy bathroom would make your day. and I thought it was something the girls could do together. " 
Paige Hamilton sophomore 
like this is going t~1 l?,n successful. 
The evnnt was con­eluded with 
an open house from 8 to 10 p.m. S u n d a y night where tlw girls could tour all of the bathrooms and enjoy food and refresh-

the Christmas holiday so they monts. 
could take advantage or after Christmas sales and bring things baek to campus with them. However, the budget was · still one of the biggest chal­lenges for the girls. 
"The event seemed to really bring everyone together," Cuda said. 
Contact Tricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Social Concerns Festival 

Learn How Local Service & Social Action Can Make An Indelible Mark OnYour Life 
Wednesday at the January 19, 7~9 p.m Center for Social Concerns 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 19, 2005 

King 
continued from page 1 
pie to better identify and understand their surround­ings. But students also said that the sign of a person's intelligence is how one han­dles stereotypes -that is, whether stereotypes guide one's thinking about others. 
Students of both majority and minority backgrounds voiced their opinions on diver­sity within America and at the University, many noting that Notre Dame is lacking in diversity. 
Controversy arose when one 

of the mediators "Blacks were here said that funda­offered a statistic: mental race
when things began. 
based on project­issues at the
They believed 
ed demographics, University hinder whites will themselves to be any substantial become the U.S. progress.
covered by the 
minority in 2050, "In order for
Constitution.,,
with 48 percent black people to of the population entirely fit into in the United Richard Pierce Notre Dame, [the States. The medi­administration]
professor
ator noted that this statistic com­bine all other races into one. Thus, in reali­ty, whites will still be the majority. 
"I don't ever think whites will become the minority. I don't ever think they will become the majority in Niger," freshman Justin Gray said. 
Gray stressed that the statis­tic fails to take into account the power structure impeding the progress of minority groups. The political system in the United States exists to cater to the majority's needs, he added, saying that blacks were left out of the Declaration of Independence. 

Pierce, on the other hand. said that the issue is the way race functions today and not with the past. 
"Blacks were here when things began," Pierce said. "They believed themselves to 
be  covered  by  the  
Constitution."  
Pierce said that race  is  an  

elastic concept, dif'ficult to define. He emphasized that Notre Dame makes an effort to make race a non-issue in a number of ways, including random roommate assign­
ments for first­year students. 
Gray, however, 
would have to go 
back to 1842 
when this University was founded and redraw the lines," Gray said. 
Many minority students reflected on the lack of diver­sity and the need for minority students to be embraced on campus. One student said that, for her, this void was filled when she founded a Notre Dame club supporting black women called Shades of Ebony. 
Also discussed was the issue of the "black table" in the lunchroom. 
Pierce noted that he consis­tently sees the racial separa­tion in the dining hall and in other places on campus. 
"You find these clusters of people sitting together almost by ethnic groups," he said. 
One professor said that this sort of phenomena is explained by the segregation that still exists in America. Pierce drew on the words of Angela Davis, a major figure in the women's right move­ment. 
"We all may live in the same house but sometimes you just need to go to your own room," Pierce quoted. 
Minority students supported the "black table" by saying that sitting there is more about being comfortable, rather than about race. One girl, who said she is the only black student in most of her classes, argued that it is com­forting to go to the dining hall and be with other blacks. 
Other minority students added the same practices exist in dorms after the first year. One minority student selected a non-white roommate for reasons of comfort; another said the minorities on her floor formed a minority sec­tion on one corner of the hall. 
One white girl, from a most­ly black high school, said that her high school had a "white table." 
With this in mind, the pan­elists urged that students step out of their comfort zones and break down the barriers of race on campus. 
Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy@nd.edu 


Books 

continued from page 1 
into consideration. 

"I look on Amazon.com," she said. "I don't always go with the cheapest because sometimes they are poorly edited. If we have an anthology, I try to have the students read much of it so they don't waste money." 
Professor Michael Hildreth, of the physics department, noted that while cost is taken into account, most science books cost about the same. 
"We don't have a lot of to
space 

"These books were
maneuver, dents, though it he said. "We in great condition, is in no way con­
go for the all of them actually nected to the 
best quality University. The 
new with no
textbooks." site is run by If cases like highlighting or Elite Technology that of fresh­writing.,, Solutions, a com­men Erin pany out of B u r n s Pennsylvania, is 
Erin Burns
become more entirely free and prevalent, freshman works as a facili­
the book­stores could have reason for conce.~;,n. Burns decided to turn to the online market this semester after the Notre Dame Bookstore wouldn't give her any money to buy back her chemistry book. 
After registering for her spring classes, Burns com­pared the prices on the bookstore's website to those on Half.com, the textbook­selling wing of eBay. She wound up buying four books through the site,· and even offset the cost by placing some of her own books for sale. She had much praise for the process. 
"These books were in great condition, all of them actually new with no high­lighting or writing," Burns said. "The sellers are given ratings, and this allows you to see if you are buying from a reliable person." 
Erin calculates she saved over $300 by using the Internet this semester and plans to encourage other students to pursue this option in the future. 
Another viable option for textbook shoppers is NDbay, 
a website 
designed to serve 
Notre Dame stu­
tator of student 
textbook sales. 

If a student wants to buy a book, NDbay e-mails both the seller and the buyer with each other's contact infor­mation. The students com­municate and arrange a sale. 
The biggest selling point for NDbay is no shipping fees, which can add up at other web site and cut into the discounts. 
Contact John Everett jeverett@nd.edu 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 19, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE QgsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Abbas visits the Gaza Strip 
c;AZA CITY, Caza Strip-In the biggest test of his brief tnnurn, l'alnstinian lnadPr Mahmoud Abbas canw to the Gaza Strip on TuPsday, hoping to pPrsuadl~ militants to halt attacks on lsnwl. But in a show of dnlianee, a l'alnstinian suiddn bomlwr blew himsnlf up on a snttlnr road in (;aza, killing an Israeli sncurity agent and wounding seven otlwr lsraPiis. 
Tlw !shunk militant group llamas daimml rPsponsibility for tlw attack the first suiddn bombing against an lsranli target since Nov. I. 
Bnforo tho bombing, lsnwli l'rimn Ministnr Ari!'l Sharon warnnd his patienen was run­ning thin, tPfling military commanders the army must deal with rocket and mortar attacks against lsranlis "at the narlinst possi­ble stagn." 
Indian-Pakistani tensions increase 
NHW DELIII -India aeeusnd Pakistani sol­dinrs Tunsday of firing mortar slwlls across tlw dividing line in Kashmir in the lirst viola­tion of a 14-month ceasn-lirn between the South Asian nuclear-armed rivals. 
Tho cnasn-l'irn was thn longest since an insurgnnt campaign in the dividml llimalayan provinen began in I1JSIJ. Both countries daim llw mainly Muslim, fornwr princf1ly state in its entin~ty and havn li1ught two wars over it. 
A senior army oflkial said thnrn were no casualties on the Indian side, and Indian troops had not retaliated. 
"ll enrtainly is a violation of' the cease-lin~. This is tho lirst time this has happened. Wo have nxercisnd full restraint," Maj. Gen. lhH~pak Summanwar told the privato NDTV rwws channoI. "Snven to night rounds of mor­tars wnrn firod. All our patrols ... have beon alnrtnd." 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Oil businessman pleads guilty 
WASHINGTON -An Iraqi-American busi­rwssman, aeeusnd of pocketing millions of dollars through the U.N. oil-for-food program with Iraq, plnaded guilty Tunsday to acting as an ill1~gal agent of Saddarn Hussein's gov­nrnnwnt. 
Samir A. Vincnnt, 64, a naturalized U.S. citizen from Annandale, Va., is the first per­son to be charged in the Justice l>npartnwnt's investigation of the program, whieh U.N. audits havn shown w11s badly misrnanagml. 
Tlw Unitml Nations opnratnd the program from 11)1)(, to 2003 as a way for Iraq's oil ridws to bnrwlit its peopln, who Wf1re suffer­ing from years of dnprivation brought on by eeonornie sanetions imposed on Saddam's regime following its I 990 , invasion of Kuwait. 
Priest faces fewer accusers 
CAMBIUI>(;!\, Mass. -Proseeutors formally dropped an accusnr from the criminal case against dnfrocknd priest Paul Shanley, leaving just onn alleged victim to testify in the trial that began Tunsday for onn of the most notori­ous ligurns in the dorgy s11x abuse scandal. 
Prosecutors already had dropped two other aceusnrs from the ease, and removed thf1 third b11causn they have been unable to lind hirn since a hearing in October when he had diflkulty remaining composed to tP.stify. Tho move to drop him from the case was widely expected. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana factory set to shutdown 
HOUND HOCK, Texas DuPont Photomasks Inc., onn of thf1 world's top mak­lli'S of photornasks l'or the computer-chip industry, Tunsday said it will cut about 100 jobs, or about (, poreent of its work force, as it rnov11s to dose a photomask factory in Indiana in an nfTort to save monoy. 
Tho plant, in Kokomo, Ind., is DuPont Photornasks' oldnst factory. The company nxpncts if. to shut down in the quarter ending .Junn 30. 

Rice faces Senators' questions 
ND grad testifies in her nomination hearing at the Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Secretary of State nominee 
Condolnnzza Hiee gave no 
ground in Senate confirma­
tion questioning Tuesday, 
insisting the United States 
was l'ully prepared for the 
Iraq war and its aftermath 
and refusing to give a 
timetable for U.S. troops to 
come horne. 
An Amnrican exit strate­gy dP.pP.nds on Iraq's ability to defend itself against ter­rorists al'ter this month's elections, she said. 
Hien seemed headed for easy confirmation by the Senatf1 as President Bush's choice to be the country's top diplomat. She did have a tense exchange with Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif. Hice repeatedly asked the senator not to question h(lr truthfulness but former presidential nominee John Kerry, D-Mass., was the only member of the Foreign Hnlations Comm­ittee who told her she might not win his vote. 
"This was never going to be easy," Hien said of the war and its allnrmath dur­ing a confirmation hearing in which she painted an optimistic picture of the future in Iraq and for reso­lution of the long confliet between Israel and thf1 Palestinians as well. 
"It was always going to have ups and downs. I'm sure that we have made many decisions, some of which were good, some of which might not havf1 been good, but the ouster of Saddam Jlussein was worth the price," Hief1 said. "I think we made the right decision to overthrow him." 
Hice said the administra­tion's actions al'ter the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks including the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq were "difficult and neees­sary and right." 
Asked whether, with hindsight, the United States should have committed more troops to Iraq, Rice said that despite "some 

Secretary of State-designate Condoleezza Rice Is sworn In prior to testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on her nomination Tuesday. 
unforesP.en circumstances" she was satisfied with thf1 numbers. 
As for U.S. troops leav­ing, she said in response to forceful questioning l'rom HP.publican Sen. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, "Our role is directly proportional ... to how eapable the Iraqis are." 
"I am. really reluctant to try to put a timetable on that, beeauso I think the goal is to get the mission accomplished and that nwans that the Iraqis have to be capable of some things bP-fore we lessen our own responsibility," she said. 
She pledged to work to improve ties that were frayed with some allies by 
U.S. policy. 
II' confirmed Hiee, 50, would be the first black woman to lead the State Department. She would replace the popular Colin Powell as Ameriea's most visible face abroad. As White House national sneu­rity adviser for the past four years, Rice was Bush's most trusted foreign aiTairs adviser and a main archi­tect of policies in Iraq, Europe and elsewhere. 
She said of the Iraq inva­sion almost two years ago, "We did meet with some unforeseen circumstances, most importantly as Wf1 swept through the country really rather rapidly." 
Rice said spreading democracy through the Middle East remains a top administration objective. 
The Palestinian election earlier this month follow­ing the death of' Yassnr Arafat ofl'ers "a nwmnnt of opportunity," shn said. 
But Hicn also said PalP.stinian loaders need to do more to end terrorism against Israel. 
"No one has objections in principle" to the naming of' a new presidential envoy to help shepherd the peace process, Hico said, but "it is a question over whethnr that is appropriato" at this time. 
More broadly, she said thern remain "outposts or tyranny" in the world that require dose attnntion, cit­ing North Korea, Iran. Cuba, Belarus, Zimbabwe and Myanmar, also known as Burma. 

Supreme Court rejects terror case 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court prolonged the legal limbo of hundrnds of terror suspects in a U.S. military prison in Cuba, refusing on Tuesday to consider whetlwr the gov­ernment's plan for military trials unfairly denies them basic legal rights. 
So far only a handful of' the 550 detainees from about 40 countries havf1 been charged with war crimes. More are expeeted once courts sort out how they may be tried. 
The legal uncertainty surrounding the men, many of whom were cap­tured during the U.S.-Ied war in Afghanistan in 2001, has prompted intP.rnational criticism and spawned multiple court fights. 
The Supreme Court had been asked to use an appeal by Osama bin Laden's former driver to decide whether the Bush administration is trying to shorteut defendants' rights by holding a type of military trial last used during World War II. 
A federal judge ruled last fall that Salim Ahmed llamdan and others put on trial at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base should bP. allowed to confront witnesses and see evidence against them, whieh are standard undP.r mili­tary justice rules but are not guaran­teed to detainees. 
The Supreme Court rejoeted thf1 

ease Tuesday, which was not surpris­ing beeause an appeals court also is considering the issue and has schnd­uled arguments March 8. 
In addition, the eourt heard three significant terrorism eases last year and was not expected to take on another big one so soon. 
It was a minor vietory for the gov­ernment, whieh was ordered by the Supreme Court last year to give detainees in the United States and Cuba morn legal rights. 
Since those landmark decisions, lawsuits have been f'iled in Washington on behalf of dozens of detainees claiming they are being wrongly held. 
~-~---~---~ 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
Daniels delivers first State of State address 
Governor proposes temopary tax increase 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Saying Indiana's finances were in ruin and in desperate need of a "fiscal repair job," Gov. Mitch Daniels on Tuesday proposed temporarily increas­ing income taxes for people making more than $100,000, freezing property tax relief payments and denying overall spending increases to schools, universities and prisons. 
Daniels, sworn in last week as the state's first Republiean governor in 16 years, said he had a constitutional duty to balance the state's pocket­book. lie said his proposals would erase Indiana's $600 million deficit by July 2006. 
"Without bold and diffieult aetion now, the lines of spend­ing and income will never cross," Daniels said in his first State of the State speech to a joint session of the General Assembly. "Tonight, it falls on me to propose a program full of steps I lind regrettable and unpleasant, but steps that I believe our duty commands if we would not fall on the poor. But Bosma, who gave Daniels high marks for the overall speech, still said, ''I'm sure we'll have a lot of reservation about the tax-increase portion of it here in the House until we know more about the lis­cal picture." 

Before the election, 23 leg­
islators  - including  16  
Republicans  - signed a  no­ 
new tax pledge.  

·Daniels adviser Mark Lubbers acknowledged the proposal could be a tough sell with lawmakers. But he said Daniels was looking past poli­tics and was nowhere near counting votes. 
"l-Ie's going to do what he believes is the right thing, regardless of the outcome," Lubbers said. 
Daniels proposed no fund­ing increases for K-12 educa­tion, higher education or the Department of Correction, and hoped to cut a projected 10-percent growth in Medicaid costs by half. He indieated that it could include cutting bene­fits, eligibility 
are to end our fiscal embarrass­ment."  "Without bold and difficult action  and provider payments in the health care  
Daniels  also  now, the lines of  program  for  
made a renewed pitch for having all of Indiana  spending and income will never  the poor and disabled. Most agencies  
observe daylight­ cross.  and programs  
saving  time.  a  were  denied  
move he says would eliminate confusion and  Mitch Daniels Indiana governor  higher appro­priations in the current budget,  

boost commerce. 
His proposed one-year tax increase would raise the state's flat 3.4 per­cent individual ineome tax to 
4.4 percent for individuals or couples who file jointly mak­ing more than $100,000. He said the one-time "surtax" would help balance the budg­et in one year and begin rebuilding the state's depleted savings. 
"I will veto any attempt to raise general taxes on our cit­izens, and any attempt to extend even for one day the one temporary measure I reluctantly propose tonight," Daniels said. The tax increase would bring in about $290 million in new revenue. 
Republicans control both chambers of the Legislature for the first time in eight years. But the GOP's two lead­ers -House Speaker Brian Bosma of Indianapolis and Senate President Pro Tern Robert Garton of Columbus ­were adamant last week that there would be little support for a tax increase. 
Garton tempered that take after Tuesday's speech, saying it was at least a temporary tax proposal and one that 

which expires 
in July. But lawmakers relied on deficit spending and tapped dedicat­ed accounts to increase fund­ing for schools. 
Increasing basic state fund­ing for schools by just 1 per­cent in each of the next two years would cost about $150 million. Many school officials and lobbying groups have said a minimal increase in funding still might leave them unable to pay for rising enrollments, utility and pen­sion costs and raises for teachers already included in contracts. 
Daniels said his proposals were necessary because Indiana had outspent its income for years. 
Although tax collections were expected to grow over the next two years, the state still faces a projected $600 billion deficit and owes about $720 million in back pay­ments to schools, universities and local governments. Lawmakers tapped more than $500 million from pension savings accounts and other dedicated funds to prop up the current $22.8 billion budget. 
Saint Mary's might become inter­ested in the school." 

Recruit 
Admissions officers also strove continued from page 1 
to improve Fall Day on Campus, when potential students visit dents. Vmag, featured in a New campus, in order to attract York Times article on college .women to the College. recruiting on Dec. 30, has been Traditionally, the day includes sent to accepted students for the campus tours and question and past two years. This year, for the answer sessions guided by cur­first time, it is also available to rent students. Occasionally a prospective appli-coach meets with cants. a prospective ath­
Interested stu­"When that lete to diseuss the dents can download application comes athletic depart­Vmag software ment.
in we know they 

from the College This year Fall Web site, automati­know an alumnae Day was expanded cally giving them and they have a to include a real access to the first dassroom experi­
little more of a

four issues. The ence.
perspective of

magazine includes "We worked a video clips of the Saint Mary's." lot eloser to Dr. college campus and Timm and the stu­of current students dent affairs divi­
Mona Bowe 

speaking about sion, and with Dr. 
admissions officer 

their experience at Pat White," Bowe Saint Mary's. said. "We were 
"The cool things able to get some of about it is that every time you're our faculty on campus on a online it [the softwan~l will go out Sunda~. and to actually teach automatically and see if there is a classes. n~w version of the magazine The prospective students were online," Bowe said. "We are real­sent to one classroom and their ly hoping that some students who parents to another, simulating a might not be already interested in normal day on campus, Bowe 
Mass 
continued from page 1 
University and formed close relationships that left lasting impressions on his room­mates, section mates and other friends, Jarret said. 
"Dan may have had a failing physical heart, but he had a big and ... faithful heart," Jarret said. And though Kish 's death left a void in the hearts of many of those who knew him, Jarret said, "heav­en makes that whole." 
A small but emotional 
crowd attended the Mass, co­celebrated by J arret and Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs. Some students shed tears, others held hands and many lingered afterward for a trip to the Grotto to light candles in Kish's memory. 
Because members of Kish's family held their own vigil Tuesday night and did not attend the Mass, J arret expressed "deep gratitude" on their behalf. Kish has two brothers -Jeff, who is a sen­ior at Notre Dame, and Tim, a 2004 graduate -and a sister, Alissa. 
Open House for 
said. 
"The Fall Day is really for sen­iors who are already interested and are looking more at the aca­demics," Bowe said. "We proba­bly won't do that for Spring Day because those students are nor­mally sophomores and juniors and it is a little early to put them in a classroom." 
Bowe and her colleagues have continued using other methods to try to raise application numbers. 
The admissions office also issues an "alumnae endorsed" application wherein it mails 18,000 applieation packets to Saint Mary's graduates and encourages them to give it to a woman who they believe would be a good fit f{Jr the school. 
"When that application comes in we know they know an alum­nae and they have a little more of a perspective of Saint Mary's," Howe said. 
In recent years current stu­dents have also been asked to help and have been "given stu­dent endorsed" applications. The application fee for both types of endorsed applications is waived. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
"It was impossible not to eome away from [Dan Kish's wake] without a clear sense of their profound gratitude and sense of peace for what Dan experienced in his short time here," Jarret said. "[They recognized! that a ... successful, full life ... is that he loved and that people loved him back. They are at peace and they believe Dan is at peace." 
cheining@nd.edu 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


2005-06 School Year 
at the Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's College 
Come and see our program and meet the ECDC-SMC teachers: 
Sun., Jan. 23, 2005 ....... 2:00-4:00p.m. 
Sun., Feb. 20, 2005 ....... 2:00-4:00p.m. 
Sun., March 20,2005 ....... 2:00-4:00 p.m. 
ECDC-SMC offers four preschool programs: 3's, 3/4's, 4's and 4/5's. Full Time and Part Time 
enrollment schedules are available. 

Did you know that ECDC-SMC has degreed early childhood teachers; is NAEYC accredited program; enrichment programs include dance, gymnastics, and Spanish; college students in training; multicultural environment; family involvement 
opportunities; a summer day camp for children 
ages 3 through 9. 

For more information, please call 284-4693 or 
kalford@saintmarys.edu 

IN LOVING MEMORY OF LUCY BLANDFORD PILKINTON A.B., M.A., PH.D. 27 FEB 1943--19 JAN 1994 
L----------------------------------------~----------­

Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 

10,628.79 +70.79

}ones .., 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,290 144 • 1,606,8509,184 

AMEX I .399.07 -1.53 NASDAQ 2, I 06.04 + IX.I3 NYSE 7.114.53 +48.31 S&P 500 1.195.9X + 11.46 NIKKEI(fokyo) 11.423.26 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,X23.90 -22.XO 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) +0.75 +0.29 38.72 SUN MICROSYS INC (SUNW) +5.45 +0.23 4.45 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.77 +0.20 26.32 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.35 -0.08 22.94 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) + 1.10 +0.1 5 13.78 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.98 -0.45 46.89 10-YEAR NOTE -0.50 -0.21 41.95 5-YEAR NOTE +0.16 +0.06 37.17 3-MONTH BILL -0.78 -0.18 23.02 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.05 48.48 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.50 423.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.45 93.38 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 02.230 EURO 0.7681 POUND 0.5362 CANADIAN$ 1.2244 
IN BRIEF 
United and pilots reach agreement 
CIIICA<;o -United Airlines and its pilots' union reachml tentative agreement on a revised nnw contract Tuesday, 11 days after a judge dis­rnissfHI tho previous deal as unfair to other unions. 
Tlw pilots' union leadership endorsed the agnwrnent and sent it to the approximately 6,400 United pilots for ratilieation. Balloting is 
t.o begin Thursday and go until Jan. 31. 
Neither the company nor union would release details. hut United said the savings wore similar to those outlinml in the previous deal, in which pilots had agrned to a 15 percent pay cut. The pilots planned to discuss the new contract on Wednesday. 
If approved, tho latest agreement will help United in its push to rewrite all its labor con­tracts to save costs for tho second limn in its 25­month bankruptcy. The Elk (irove Village, IlL­based airlinn says it needs to cut wages and honnlits by $725 million annually on top of the $2.5 billion in annual roduetions made in 2003 and nlim inate ddined-benelit pensions. 
Krispy Kreme ousts Livengood 
CIIAHLOTTE, N.C. -Chief executive offieer Scott Liv11ngood was ousted Tuesday as head of Krispy Krome Doughnuts Inc., the once-trendy chain whoso stock price has plummeted amid a fednral sewrities invostigation and allegations of padded sales figures. Shares of Krispy Krome jump11d 12 percent. 
The Winston-Salem company's board of direc­tors announced the retirement of Livengood, who has been eritieiznd for his handling of the company's recent linaneial problems, as one of "a number of important actions to address the company's current situation." 
Livengood, 52, who has been at the helm for snven years and led the company's rapid rise, was replaced as CEO by Stephen Cooper, a turn­around specialist who most recently shepherded the Enron Corp. bankruptcy reorganization. 
The company also warned that a persistent dndinns in sales may lead to a fourth quartm loss. 
Krispy Kromo said Livengood also retired from his positions as president, chairman of the board and as a dirndor of the company and will hneomn a consultant on an interim basis. l.ivnngood had served as CEO since 1998 and had been with Krispy Krome since 1977. 

THE OBSERVER 










USINESS 
page 7 
'Superjumbo'jet unveiled 
Airbus reveals BOO-passenger double-decker A380 as a new flagship Tuesday 
Associated Press 

TOULOUSE. Franco ­
Airbus put its stamp on avi­
ation history Tunsday, 
unvniling the world's largest 
eommercial jet and raising 
the stakns in its 35-year 
rivalry with Boning Co. 

The double-deekor A:~80 
"superjumbo," capable of 
flying up to 800 passengers, 
gives thn Eurolwan planA 
rnaknr a new flagship and 
completes its range of jets 
at a time whnn Boeing is 
losing market share and 
rmlueing some production. 
French President Jacques Chirae and othnr European leaders struck a triumphal note at the ceremony, hail­ing the A380 as a sign of Europn's capacity to gennr­ate world-beating indus­trios. 
"It's a symbol of neonomie strength,. technological innovation, the dedication ol' the work f'oree that built it and above all of a conf'i­dence that we can competn and win in tho global mar­ket," British Primo Minister Tony Blair said. 
But the A380, whieh was partially funded by European govnrnments, amounts to a huge bet that carrinrs need ever-bigger planes to process a growing numbers of passengers through the busiest hub air­ports. Airbus is investing Boeing sees a different erect 15 last year and its the kinds of volumes that $13 billion to develop the future, one in whieh indus­eurrent backlog is down to · are necessary for the A380, plane, which has a list price try deregulation and small­only 32, aceording to the or where tlwir routn struc­of $280 million apiece and er, long-range planes like its company. It has no orders ture is not constrainnd by is scheduled for its first planned two-aisle 7E7 for the aireraft so far this eongnstion," he said. commercial flight in 2006. Dreamliner allow passen­year. Airbus already has 149 
If Airbus is right, the gers increasingly to fly "Clearly, we will not get orders for the A380, which A380 eould consign the direct, spurning stopovers. back to the glory days of has a 2(J2-foot wingspan once-dominant Boeing 7 4 7 The 7E7, which will seat large manufacturing pro­and a tail as tall as a snven­jumbo jet to history, deal a between 217 and 289 pas­duction rates" for the 7 4 7, story building. It says it further blow to the Chicago­sengers, is scheduled to said Boeing spokesman needs 100 morn to break based company and leave debut in 2008. Todd Blecher. But he added, even, and a furthor 500 Airbus with a monopoly in a But Boeing is hedging its "We're quite happy with bnforn it can dnliver on its lucrative and fast-growing bets. Last year, it where the 7 4 7 fits in the pledge of a 20 percent market. Boeing would need announced plans for a larg­market, today and going return on investment. 10 years or more to develop er, 450-seat 7 4 7, despite forward." In a thrne-dass cabin lay­a rival to the A380, industry having previously dismissed Jon Ash, president of out, thll A380 will carry 555 experts say. the need and Airbus' plans lnterVlSTAS-ga2, a Wash­passnngors :n pnrcont morn 
But if its sales forecasts for a bigger plann. A launch ington-based aviation con­than the 747. On a 1\Jll tank, prove to be too optimistic or deeision is expected in mid-sulting firm, also said he it will carry passnngnrs 5 the new plane's production 2005. sees a future for the Boeing percent farther than costs soar, then the Airbus New orders for the cur­plane. "The 7 4 7 is going to Boeing's longest-rangn lead over Boeing in plane rent 747 is on the dedine, have the middle market, for jumbo, Airbus daims, at a deliveries over the past two dropping from 35 in 1999 to those carriers that don't per-passenger cost up to years could disappear. 10 in 2004. Boeing deliv-believe they can generate one-fifth bnlow its rival's. 

'70s retail trend gains momentum 
Hetailers' love affair with the '70s doing well with sectional couches, 
Associated Press 

seems to be gaining momentum fondue sets and lava lamps. 
although the trend has been around Sunbeam Products lne., which 
NEW YORK -Back in the 1970s, for a few years. And they're not limit­ofl'ered '70s-inspired home appliances Kyle Tibbs Jones embraced the hot ing themselves to fashion; they're con­last year, is making a bigger push this trends ponehos, croeheted tops and fidently expanding into toys, home year with all-metallic toasters and peasant skirts. Now, as the nation's furnishings, and home applianees. irons, aecording to Mary Ann Knaus, retailers keep reviving those styles, After doing well with retro toys such senior vice president of strategic Jones enjoys reliving her youth. as Shrinky Dinks and Slinkies, though development and global marketing. 
"I love that we're wearing those in more high-tech forms, the toy Marketers are targeting both baby foxy cool clothes again beeause it industry is coming out with more in boomers, who !,'few up with the mer­totally takes me baek. Many of the 2005. For example, consumers will be chandise, and younger generations things in my doset right now look like seeing Hasbro Inc.'s hipper version of that are embraeing these styles for pieees I owned in the ninth grade," the classic Trolls those ereatures with the first time. Jones, who is also buy­said the 42-year-old from Georgia's St. the wild colorful hair that were hot in ing a sActional couch, is passing along Simons island. "Is it crazy nuts that the 1960s and '70s in stores in some of that nostalgia to her childnm. when I wear that sweater with the August. Trolls already had one big She gave her 8-year-old child Classic erocheted flowers on it that I auto­comeback, enjoying great success in Football, a hand-held elnetronic foot­matieally hear Steve Miller band play the early 1990s. ball game that Mattei Inc. revived in my head?" Meanwhile, home decor stores are from the '70s. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
Chopra tackles world peace in nevv book 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -It's an incongruous image: Deepak Chopra, leader of a spiritual movement that has intro­duced millions of Americans to the benefits of positive thinking, waving a cell phone in the air as he lists its capacities for destruction. 
"I could be sitting any­where in the world and move a few electrons from here, and I'll interfere with the power grid for the entire state of New York." he says. "Or I'll interfere with air traffic signals so no plane can land at JFK. What is mil­itary power going to do then?" 
Chopra hasn't snapped. lie's explaining what he sees as the ineffectiveness of con­ventional warfare in an age when terrorists can wreak havoc without a single armed troop. 
What's needed instead, he says, is a return to the ancient principle that peace begins within: Just as indi­viduals can now perpetrate mass violence, individuals must also take responsibility for creating world peace. 
That's the message of Chopra's new book. "Peace Is the Way," which offers seven daily practices that he says will create inner peace and, by extension, a more placid world. 
Is it naive to think enough people will adopt his ideas to make a difference? 
"We have to try. If you ask anybody on the street, 'Do you want peace of mind in your life and in your rela­tionships?' nobody is going to say no," he says. "Magnify that a few million times ­that's what we need." 
It's that steadfast optimism that has become Chopra's trademark. He has made a career of purveying hope, earning an estimated $10 million to $15 million by sell­ing 20 million copies of his 40 books and operating a successful wellness center in California. 
Want ttl.... 
·f;<R~ 
write fo~;i1~i 
:: <· ···=~~~#.jf:':i:.:.: 


Call Claire at 1-5323. 

His legions of fans include the Dalai Lama, former Nobel laureates Desmond Tutu, Betty Williams and Oscar Arias, and former U.N. Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose endorsements fill the first few pages of "Peace Is the Way." 
l-Ie has also become the unofficial television spokesman of the New Age movement, appearing on scores of TV talk shows each year, from "The Oprah 
Winfrey  Show"  to  "The  
O'Reilly Factor."  
It's  easy  to  see  why.  

Wearing a pair of rainbow­framed reading glasses and speaking in a voice that rarely deviates from a singsong cheerfulness, Chopra comes across as casual and approachable. During a recent interview in a lounge at his midtown Manhattan apartment build­ing, he is dressed in a sweater and slacks and weighs a few pounds more than the average health expert. 
True to his image as an unf1appable guru, Chopra ­who's about 58 but doesn't remember exactly when he was born -says notoriety doesn't faze him. He says he leads a normal family life with his wife, Rita, and has two grown children and a granddaughter. 
"I don't get drawn into the melodrama," he says. "I meditate two hours every day and exercise every day. Once in a while, I feel stressed, but not really. It's not in my nature." 
Another key to his success lies in his ability to make ancient Hindu teachings rel­evant to a contemporary audience, says Bawa Jain, secretary general of the World Council of Religious Leaders. 
"There are great Indian leaders who know their scriptures in depth, but the way Deepak communicates, I don't see anyone else having that ability," says Jain, 
Iufor1natipu Session for tire Uni'l.'ersittt o{Nol"re Dante's 
• p c 
luteruatioual Studu Programs 
Study Abroad This Summer! Earn NO credit in: 

Dublin, Ireland Toledo, Spain Plus, nevv this summer: Berlin, Germany Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico (NO EG courses offered!) 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
Wednesday, January 19t 2005 5:30pm 129 DeBartolo Hall 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 1, 2005 




House chairman suggests changes 
Congress urged to consider altering Bush's Social Security plan 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Congress should consider more sweeping changes in Soda! Security than President Bush's call for personal accounts, a prominent House committee chairman said Tuesday, possibly including dif­ferent benefits for men and women. 
Hep. Bill Thomas, R-Calif., also suggested changing the law so blue-collar laborers can receive full benefits at a younger age than office workers. At the same time, he said some provision is needed to help seniors struggling with the cost of long-term care. 
"People will live longer, they will continue to have shifting needs," the chairman of the House· Ways and Means Committee said in remarks to a forum sponsored by National Journal. "We ought to begin to restructure (Social Security) in a way that could meet the real needs instead of meeting today's political and ideological debates." 
Thomas' panel has jurisdiction over Social Security, and he will play an influential role in crafting legislation that moves through the House. 
Thomas offered few specifics in his remarks, although he spoke out against raising the payroll tax as part of Social Security legisla­tion, saying that would hamper job creation. 
Bush has called on Congress to 
give younger workers the choice 
of investing a portion of their 
payroll tax on their own, a 
change he wants made as part of 
a broader bill to strengthen the 
program's long-term finances. 
Administration officials have also 
told allies that the president's 
recommendations may include 
lowering the benefit promised to 
future retirees. 

Bush's call for changes has 
sparked concern among some 
House Republicans, fearful of 
political attacks in the 2006 cam­
paign. 

Democrats in both houses have 
signaled strong opposition to 
Bush's call for personal accounts, 
and two senators criticized the 
administration during the day. 
"Why would you decide to take it apart under the pretext of a crisis that doesn't exist?" said Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., not­ing government estimates that Social Security can pay full bene­. fits at least until 2042 without any changes. "This is an insur­ance program. The president insists it is an investment pro­
gram. It is not." 

Dorgan said Bush "has a con­
stituency that has never liked Social Security" and is attempt­ing to privatize it. 
Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D­Mich., also criticized Bush's call for fundamental changes in the program, but she said she does not believe Democrats are obli­gated to propose an alternative. "The onus is on the president," she said. 
Thomas brushed aside Democratic criticism. 
"Today we are all children of FDR," he said, referring to the president who signed Social Security into law seven decades ago. "No one is here to get rid of Social Security." 
Bush's proposals, if enacted, would bring the most far-reach­ing changes in Social Security since its creation. 
But Thomas said he wanted the debate to range even more broadly, saying, "I want as many ideas as possible on the table." 
He noted that women as a group live longer than men and said the gap is growing. If that trend continues, and more women work and their pay draws closer to equality with men, he said, "somebody might want to suggest that we need to take a look at the question of whether or not actuarially we ought to adjust who gets what, when and how." 
~----------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 19, 2005 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Muslitn pilgritns prepare for hajj 
Hundreds of thousands stay in Saudi tent city before central rite 
A."ociatcd Press 
MINA, Saudi Arabia Chanting, "Oh Allah I'm lwrn," hundrnds of thousands of pilgrims drapPd in whito stnmmod into this mammoth tnnt eity I(Jr tlw night to prqmn• tlwir minds and spirits f(lr Wedrwsday's prayors at Mount Arafat. tho t~nntral rite of the annuallu~ij. 
A-; tho pilhrrimagn rituals began Tuesday, Saudi authorities took nlahoralo pn~caulions, deploying 50,000 set~urity f(m~es to prevent the ralastroplws of past years whon hundn~ds have bonn killed in lirns and stampedes. 
"I fool so 1~nlightmwd and so much dosor to Allah that I can 
• 

barnly wait to stand on the moun­tain of mercy," said ;\('zal Sikandar Khan, 45, a pilgrim from India, n"1ferring to Mount Arafat. the placn where according to lslamie tradition the Prophet Muhammad delivt~rnd his last sermon. 
Two million people travel to Islam's holiest sites in Saudi Arabia each year to participate in the hajj, which serves to wipe away accumulated sins. The pil­grimage is rnquired of able-bodied Muslims at least once in a lifetime, if they can allilrd it. Pilgrims travel to the sites of Mecca, Mina, Arafat and Muzdalifa. 
The pilgrims begin the rituals by first drcling the Kaaba, a large black stone structure in Mecca that Muslims face during their five daily prayers. They then spend a night in the tent city of Mina, and head the next day to pray at Mount Arafat, the eentral rite of tho pilt,rrimage. 
More than a million sheep have been imported for slaughter the day after the hajj to mark the beginning of Eid al-Adha, or the Feast of tho Sacrifice. 
Many pilgrims remain con­cerned about hazards such as stampedes and fires. 
"I will pray for the tsunami vic­tims, but my immfldiate concern L<> that Allah enables us to complete our pilgrimage safe and sound," said Nigerian doctor Mokhtar Ahmed, 30. 
Shiite party target of suicide bomber 
Associated Press 

BAGIIDAD. Iraq -A suicido bomber struck the Baghdad headquarters of Iraq's biggost Shiite political party Tuesday, killing three peopl11, as thn gov­ernment announced plans to dose borders and restrit~t move­menl-; to bolster security in the national election. Thrne candi­dates were slain as insurgents intensified thoir earn paign to subvert the ballot. 
The Cabinet mombnr respon­sible lilr internal security urgnd fellow Sunni Arabs to disrngard lhreal<> by Sunni extrnmisl-; and vote in the Jan. 30 election, in whieh Iraqis will choose a 275­membor National Assembly and regional legislatures. Otherwise, the minister warnod, the country will slide into eivil war. 
In a positive development, a Catholie archbishop kidnapped in northern Iraq was released Tuesday without payment of ransom, tho Vatican said. Archbishop Basile Georges Casmoussa, an Iraqi, said he believes he was kidnapped by mistake. 
But an American soldier was killed Tuesday in a roadside bombing in Baghdad, and more foreigners were reported kid­napped, including Lebanese businessman Jebrail Adeeb Azar and eight Chinese construction workers. The Chinese were shown held hostage by gunmen claiming the captives worked for a company that dPals with Anwricans. China's official Xinhua NPws Agency said diplo­mal-; WPI'I' "making all nflilfl<; to n~scun" llw hostages, who disap­pParml last wnnk whill' trawling to Jordan. 
Tlw suicidt~ drivPr dP!onalt•d his whido altl'r senrrity guards stopped it at a elwckpoint in front. of ollkns of' tlw SuprPIIIP Council for tlw Islamic Hnpuhli(' in Iraq, onn of the nu~jor groups contesting the elnction. Tlw Shiite party. known as SCIHI. has dose tins to Iran and is strongly opposed by Sunni Muslim mili­tants. 
Iraqi policn said llw bomlwr and two others dind and nirw pnople wnro woundml. induding throe polico. The bhL-;l gougnd a cralnr in the pavmnnnl, left stw­eral vnhielns in l'lanws and sprnad shn~ddml debris on the strnet in the Jadriyah district. 
"SCIHI will not bt~ frighttmml by sueh an aet," party spokesman Hidha .Jawad said. "SCIIU will continue the man~h toward building Iraq, t~stablish­ing justice and holding the nine­lions." 
Sunni Muslim militants, who make up the bulk of Iraq's insur­gents, have stepped up attacks on Shiites to frighten thom into staying home on election day. Although many Sunni eleries and others oppose the nloction, Shiite leaders have told their fill­lowers that voting is their reli­gious duly. 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

The terror of our fathers 
P.O. Box n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Meghanne Downes Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR Joe Herder 
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITORt Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARy's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CoNTROlLER: Michael Landsberg 
0FACE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporcs.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631·4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

O~SERVER ONUNE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns prc;sent the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quest:Wns ~arding Obm-verpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
~ Ol»ervet {USPS 599 2-4000).is puhli~hcJ Monday thto~ Friday ~ept during exam and vac:acion periods. A,umcriprion ro The Ob~erver ii $100 for one academic yt"V; J55 for one ~dtn. 
The ObJtrver ii published u: I'O>TMASTER 
U24 Souch DiniltK H.tll Send addll:lis c.arrection' 10: 
Notre Dame, IN 465S6-077lJ TheObkr\'t:r 
PttioJ.tcal postage paid ar Nom: Dame 1~0 Sox n9 
and ~iuonal milili"H, offit:a.. 024 Suurh Dining lUll 
None OamL; IN 46556-0779 
T~ Obtc:rv-er i' 11. membc:r of the~ l 1 ~a~o. All reprodu.:rion ughES uc taerved. 

As the situation in Iraq grows increas­ingly bleak, mired by violent interchanges between Coalition forces and insurgents, a substantive peace seems farther and far­ther out of reach. Last week, Newsweek reporters discovered Pentagon officials have Kama ria begun discussing using Porter the chillingly termed 
Love in the 

"Salvador option" to 
ruins

counter the insurgency. The tactic refers to the then-secret plan sponsored by the U.S. government under the Reagan Administration to train and fund "death squads" in El Salvador during the 1980's to target opponents of the oppressive right-wing government. These "death squads" of the Salvadoran military oflicers carried out numerous crimes against humanity. 
Under their regime of terror, Salvador death squads murdered, abducted and tortured tens ofthousands of people. In 1980, as he celebrated mass, military snipers assassinated Archbishop Oscar Romero. Romero continually spoke out against the violence in his country, opposed U.S. military aid that fueled the terror, and reported human rights viola­tions in his homilies. He said. "Peace is not the product of terror or fear. Peace is not the silent result of violent repression. Peace is the generous, tranquil contribu­tion of all to the good of all." His message of hope to the poor and justice to the oppressed put him on a death list. "Death squads" have also been found guilty of kidnapping, raping, and executing four American churchwomen working with the poor in El Salvador and massacring the entire village of El Mozo~e -of which most deaths were children. 
One of the most noted atrocities of 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Kate Antonacci Heather Megan O'Neil Van Hoegarden Jeannine Privat Kate Gales 

How do you feel student 

Viewpoint Tom Dorwart Becca Rosswurm Scene government has done this year? Graphics Becca Saunders Graham Ebetsch Illustrator 

Graham Ebetsch Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver. com 
Salvadoran military was the murder of six Jesuit priests, their housekeeper, and her daughter. On Nov. 16, 1989, a group of soldiers-with orders from their superi­ors -murdered Fathers Ignacio Ellacurfa, Ignacio Martin-Baro, Segundo Montes, Amando Lopez, Joaq~n Lopez y Lopez and Juan Ramon Moreno, and Julia Elba Ramos, their resident cook and housekeeper, and her daughter, Celina Mariceth Ramos. Father Ignacio Ellacuria -the prime target -and the other priests had been working with the poor and marginalized of San Salvador while trying to bring a peaceful end to the con­flict between the factions. Yearly, people mourn these deaths at the School of the Americas protest and call for an end to 
U.S. 
sponsored terror abroad. 

U.S. 
intelligence's consideration to inte­grate the "Salvador option" in Iraq shows the persisting trend of deriving the wrong conclusion from past military entangle­ments. In El Salvador, "death squads" pro­ceeded to kill anyone -of the resistance or not -who did not support the right­wing regime. The violent silencing of prophetic voices like Romero and Ellacuria retarded the peace process while robbing the people of witnesses to God's hope for peace in El Salvador. If such a tactic is imported to Iraq, I fear a situation already plagued by violence, enmity and aggression will only increase in devastation. Also, we may lose Iraqi voices of change in the process of weeding out insurgents -as in El Salvador. We need to embrace a bold, yet even more difficult plan in Iraq. We can never eradi­cate terror by perpetuating it. Additionally, we do the martyrs of El Salvador further violence by continuing the policies that ended their lives. 


For solutions, I am drawn to the pleas of an American prophetic voice, Martin Luther King Jr, whose birthday we cele­brate this week. King called for an end to another quagmire-Vietnam, and pub­licly addressed it exactly one year before his assassination. He explained in 1967. "I knew that I could never again raise my voice against the violence of the oppressed in the ghettos without having first spoken clearly to the greatest purveyor of violence in the world today: my own government." Further, King characterized the war as an enemy of the poor in which lower class Americans were sent to destroy peasant villages in the East. while money that could eviscerate the urban and rural poverty in the United States was being used to create a "hell for the poor" in Vietnam. 
King spoke of the force of nonviolence ­an active stance of empathy that compels us to use constructive policies, open com­munication, and dedication to a peaceful end. Today, King's voice calls us to address the problems in Iraq without hubris or ulterior motives, and admit that-as in Vietnam, El Salvador and other nations ­we were wrong in the invasion and occu­pation. The path of nonviolence may shriek in our ears only because it is hard, but it is the only way to preserve our soul of democracy and bring peace. We must shift policy or as King warned, "we shall surely be dragged down the long, dark, and shameful corridors of time reserved for those who possess power without com­passion, might without morality, and strength without sight." 
Kamatta Porter is a junior history major. She can be contacted at kporter@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Education is the best provision for the journey to old age." 
Aristotle 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Wt:dnesday, January 19, 2005 page II 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Are you committed? 

I am a graduate of both the law school (1998) and the Alliance for Catholic l·:duention pmgram (2004). I currently work as a seventh and eighth grade lan­guage arl'i teaelwr at Saint Anthony School in South Bend. Hecently. while teaching the eighth graders an introduction to philosophy using the book "SophiP's World," 1 a'iked the studnnl'i if they bdieved that the world could be bettPr. They responded by saying "yes." Yet, when I asked them what they were doing to show tlwir eommitnwnt to a bdtnr world, they had no answers. They rould l'asily state how tlwy did things evnry day to show their commitment to sporl'i, but tlwy could not show their commitment to creating a better world. Wht•n askl•d what was mon• important. a bettl)r world or bning better at a sport. llwy all imnwdiatnly stated "a bnttnr world." 
After this discussion, we discussed a few ways in which they could show their c:ommitnwnt. Somn of the student-; came up with the idea of "Kuddles for Kids," a driVl' to rncPive donated stull'cd animals to give to the childrnn atlected by the tsunami in 1\sia. 
Latllly, we have been diseussing what others could do to show their commit­mont, and we carne up with another idea. This idea involves you, the students at Notrn Dame. What if you were all to give up going out for just one Saturday. What if instead of going out and spending your money on that one Saturday, you instead gavn it to an organization that would distribute it to those in need (for instance, giving to an organization that helps those afl'ccted by the tsunami). Think of the amount you could raise in just one day! 
IL only takes one student at Notre Dame to be committed to this idea and pass that commitment on to others for it to grow exponentially. If you think about it, it n~ally is a simple idea. one night given up to help others who really need it. Just imagine if the idlm caught on at other campuses around the United States. 
Just IL.'ik yourself if you arc committed to a belief in a better world. 
Heath Weaver alumnus Class of 1998, 2004 Jan. 18 
U-WIRE 

No WMD? So what? 
Ilow short the American memory is. It was not that long ago when we collective­ly mourned 3.000 dead Americans. 
It was not that long ago when most of us wanted Saddam Hussein disarmed, dethroned and dishon-Chuck ored as the tyrant that Prochaska 
he was. not defended. 

Today. for true University of Americans. those emo­Illinois tions live on. Daily lllini 
Last week, I listened in my car for two hours to the liberal media blowing smoke at Americans who supported the war, alerting us to the ofli­cially "failed" search for weapons of mass destruction, one of the president's central justifications for the war. 
The war in Iraq was fought to remove a brutal dictator who had the desire and ability to attack the United States and its allies at whim. without notice. Period. 
The fact that Saddam had moved and destroyed all of his WMDs in time to evade U.N. weapons inspectors and U.S. troops should not award him the clear­ance of international law or the sympathy of freedom-loving Americans. 
A popular liberal argument against the war in Iraq is to claim that the only rea­son we went to war was to disarm Saddam of WMDs and not because he was an evil dictator who oppressed his own people. This. however, is not true. For instance, President Bush's speech declaring war on Iraq on March 17. 2003. "In a free Iraq, there will be no more wars of aggression against your neigh­bors, no more poison factaries, no more executions of dissidents. no more torture chambers and rape rooms. The tyrant will soon be gone. The day of your libera­tion is near." This was a clear statement justifying a war to remove a hateful des­pot, with no mention of WMDs. 
Saddam had a history of developing WMDs and would not disclose his involve­ment in illegal programs to the United Nations. If he would have said, "No, real­ly guys, come check it out-I'm clean," and the inspectors were allowed to do their job, I wouldn't be writing this col­umn. 
lie used WMDs bPforP, which means IH' had the w'ill and capacity to delivt•r tlwm again. Saddam had PXIJcutnd over 200,000 Iraqis using chemical weapons shortly before the 1991 Gulf War. Imagirw if a single Saddam-funded dirty bomb was detonated in the United States. It's a shame how liberals love to sacrifice dead Americans for self-incriminating Muslim 
tt~rrorists. 

It really doesn't mattnr that WMDs were not found in Iraq. Saddam was too smart to leave them lying around in a nation about to be taken over by U.S. troops. Several reports issued shortly after the commencement of Operation Iraqi Freedom disclose the location of assorted WMDs with Iraq's name on them. If anything, these reports, hidden by the liberal media, are 11vidence to advance the war on terror. 
The fact that WMDs were not found in Iraq is a testament to American intelli­gence and resolve. In the midst of a glob­al uprising against American values, we were diligent enough to stop the ring­leader before he could get started again. May we always have the courage to defend our great nation against Islamic terrorists-at whatever cost. 
This article originally appeared on .Jan. 18 in Daily lllini. the daily publication at The University of Illinois. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 


Decency is not so common anymore 
One of my classes last semester was a survey of American fiction that showed me the proeess of evo­lution in the way we think about ourselves. 
Americans are a unique bunch when compared to the rest of the world. The last novel we studied was "Slapstick" by Kurt Vonnegut. 
Nick Mels

Scholars categorize him as a 
"post-modern" writer because he 
Georgia State

challenges and deconstructs nor­
University

mal gtHlms so we can sm~ the arti­
The Georgia 

ficiality of thn way we perceive 
Stale

ourselves as a soeiety: Vonnegut 
University

issues a further challengl~ to us by 
Signal

saying there is not enough com­mon decency in our dL-;tinctive society. I have to agree with him. 
I suppose the disadvantage of being older than most of my instructors L'i that I have become less tol­erant of pPople and the rude, stupid things they do. I let mysnlf get irritated with the groups who stand in the middle of the hallway between classes making everyone walk around them. Once, I actually said in a loud voice, "Unbnlievable! All that education wasted on people who refuse to sec they are the problem!" If anybody out there remembers that day, I apologize. 
I have to apply Vonnegut's complaint to myself. lnstlmd of doing what I did above, the decent thing to do would have been to ask rhcm calmly to move to the side and let the rest of us go by. The decent thing they could have done WIL.'i to be aware of the others in the hall and not block the way. What I am describing here is a simple fact; none of us is the center of the universe and we should always act with that in mind. If we could all just be decent to each other, most of the problems of society would disappear. 
/\pply Vonnegut's postulate to driving in rush-hour traffic, one of my pet peeves. I tend to be aggressive, irritable and judgmental of all the other drivers. The preferred attitude is to be polite, to use what I call "highway etiquette" so that everybody can get to their destinations safely and on time. To tell each other our intentions, use the equipment that all vehicles have, the turn signals. If another car is overtaking you, move over to the right. These are all simple things, but they are very hard to do if we are not in the habit of being decent to the others around us. 
Where is this leading? Any person can program a new behavior in themselves with conscious attention within 30 days. In other words, in that insignificant amount of time, I can change from the crusty old cur­mudgeon I was last semester into the lovable little fuzzball that I want to be. I think this should be the desire of every student on campus. If we can just be decent to each other on a moment-by-moment basis, there will be no need for the disciplinary boards we saw last year. In my own life, this will be vital since I will have more responsibility at the Signal and am taking more classes than I ever have. All the writers who send their columns across my desk this year will know that whatever corrections I make to their work, I do so with their future in mind. 
I will apply this program to my writing as well. But don't think that I will pull any punches when they are necessary. I invite anybody who wishes to communi­cate with me this semester do so knowing you will be treated with respect and decency. 
This article originally appeared on Jan. 18 in The Georgia State University Signal. the daily publication at Georgia State University. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessar­ily ofThe Observer. 

A new-w-ave of unity 
While the South Asian tsunami quickly took its toll and receded, the subsequent waves of grief and sympathy continue to surge across the globe. The widespread tragedy continues to affect our world and our community, and global-minded Georgetown stu­dents have responded with a noble and effective collaboration to 
offer an outlet for charitable giving and partici­ 
pation in the relief and recovery processes.  Staff Editorial  
A new inter-organizational movement is  
starting on campus to provide relief to those  Georgetown  
affected by the recent calamity, bringing togeth­ University  
er existing clubs and their members and using  The 1/oya  
their collective energy and concern to focus on  

the common mission. Georgetown Unites for South !\sian 1\id aims 
to create a forum for each club to cooperate on project-; through­
out the semester. This group sponsored its ftrSt fund raising and 
awareness-raising event at 4 p.m. Tuesday in Sellinger Lounge. 
In a world fraught with man-made and natural disasters, Georgetown may be called on again and again to open il'ieU' to the suffering of others. The new committee offers a blueprint for part­nership and efficiency in planning students' reactions to such events. At a time when campus groups often come into contention with each other and campus discourse can turn divisive, a prece­dent of cooperation and inclusiveness is a much-welcomed change. 
The vast ramifications of last month's tsunami present a host of vital issues for discussion and exploration in Georgetown's clao;s­rooms. Georgetown prides itself on its international focus and tra­dition of charity and social justice, and the tsunami provides the university with an ideal opportunity to put these ideas into practice and make a real difference in a time when aid is needed most. Professors and students should take the opportunity to engage each other on the relevant issues generated by this global tragedy. 
While no amount of money or aid will ever fully relieve the pain felt by many in the coastal areas of South Asia, Georgetown h<L.'i the ability to mitigate some of this suflering by facing the disaster with open hearts and a unified purpose. 
This article originally appeared on Jan. 18 in The 1/oya, the daily publication at Georgetown University The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
Windows to the outside 
New exhibits in the Snite provide glimpses into the cultures of Vodou, East Tennessee and the American penal system 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
The next time you aren't quite sure what to do with your hour break between classes, you may want to wan­der into the Snite Art Museum and take a look around. Turning into the ontrance of the Snite, in the great hall of O'Shaughnessy, will give you a chance to see some interesting works and artifacts. 
During the last two weeks the Snite has welcomed three new exhibits offer­ing particularly unique cultural insights to students who take a few minutes, or even a few hours, to wan­der through the on-campus museum. 

Haitian Vodou Arts 
Vodou is one of the most famous reli­gions to grow out or the dispersion of Afrkan cultures through the Western hemisphere. It is often represented, and misropresented, in popular cul­ture. The Vodou flags and artifacts in this exhibit offer a real glimpse into this frequently misunderstood religion. 
The flags, at least two of which are kept in every temple, are devoted to dii'I'Prenl "laws" or deities, of lhn reli­gion. The men, women and symbols representing deities are depicted in colorful headwork and sequins, as well as braiding and occasional chromolith­ographs used for the faces of the deities. 
The Bags also show cultural overlap that might be of particular interest at Notre Dame. The flags come from a country where, according to the Central Intelligence Agency, around 80 percent of the population is Homan Catholic but roughly half of the country practices Vodou. Vodou sometimes bor­rows images from other cultures and religions, and many 11ags use Catholic imagery to represent Vodou "!was." These images do not reflect their usual significance in Catholic culture. The image of Moses on one flag represents a doity with power over snakes, a trait which Moses also shared. The Virgin Mary appears as well, but represent Erzulie Freda, the goddess of erotic love. Visiting this exhibit might spark some interest in the culture of the Caribbean island country that it came from. 

"You're Not From Around Here" 
Every photographer needs inspiration, and Mike Smith finds his in the streets and back roads around Johnson City, Tenn. "You're Not From Around Here:" photographs of East Tennessee offers a glimpse at these back roads, including the buildings and people that surround them. Smith captures buildings, backyard swing sets, panoramic views and people in their homes in a way that reflects the lives of the peo­ple alongside the land in which they live. 
The images might be famil­iar to anyone who has driven through that sort of back­country and small towns of any state. Smith captures the sort of things that give many places in America their char­acter, but that people might not commonly remember they noticed in passing through the place. "When I'm driving along, if I find myself turning my head to keep looking at something, I know it's time to stop the car and get out my camera," he recently explained in a press release. Much of the "Art From the Inside" exhibit consists of pen drawn handkerchiefs, but some 

pieces, such as "Erzrulie Freda Banner, ca 1970," are composed of sequins. 


Art From the Inside 
It isn't often you can get a glimpse into a life this different from the one you live. 
"Art From the Inside: Drawing ('Panos') by Chicano Prisoners" is a sample of almost 120 drawings on handkerchiefs created by Chicano pris­oners in jails and penitentiaries in the American Southwest. The drawings take the form of messages to parents and loved ones outside the prison, prayers or personal narratives, each one telling a different story. 
· The tradition of the drawings dates back to the reign in Mexico of the Austrian emperor Maximilian; French soldiers and bureaucrats imprisoned in Mexico sometimes sent letters and drawings on handkerchiefs back over­seas. The tradition inspired their fellow Mexican prisoners, and the practice spread through the penal system. The tradition is important to many prison­ers, who use the drawings as an outlet for their innermost thoughts and many cherished images. The drawings create their stories through images that vary from the Aztec calendar stone to the Virgin of Guadalupe to the past loves of one prisoner's life. 

Many earlier "paii.os" were drawn on bed sheets and other linen with foun­tain pens that easily tore the cloth, and have not survived. Drawn with fountain pens in the 1950s and '60s, if discov­ered, the prisoners were punished for doing the drawings. Nowadays the drawing of "pafios" is more easily facil­itated, with linen cloths and ballpoint pons being sold to many prisoners, a practice that began in the 1980s. Most of the "pafios" that are in the display are from the 1990s. 
"Art From the Inside: Drawing ('Panos') by Chicano Prisoners" will be open until Feb. 27. "Haitian Vodou Arts" will be on exhibit until March 6. "You're Not From Around here: Photographs of East Tennessee" will be open until March 13. 
The opening reception for the winter exhibitions will be held on Sunday beginning at 2 p.m. Smith will give a lecture on his exhibit, followed by gallery talks from Douglas E. Bradely, curator of the Arts of the Americas, Africa and Oceania. 
The Snite Museum of Art is free and open to the public. 
"Blountville, TN 2003," pictured above, is just one of the many colored photographs by Mike Smith in the "You're Not Contact Maria Smith at From Around Here" exhibit at the Snite Art Museum. msmith4@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
page 13 
New venue ushers in new era 
.... 

16th annual Notre Dame Student Film Festival premiers in the Browning Cinema 
By CHRIS KEPNER 
Scene Critic 
Thursday will kick orr the 1flt.h <UlnU­al Notre llarnn Film Fnstival. Showing l'or tlw first tinw in tho statn-of-thn-art Browning Cinema insidn the DeBartolo C:nntnr for th11 Pnrforming Arts, this yPar promises to take tlw already much I'IWI'rnd event to IW11n nnw ]wights in popularity. 
Tho Fnstival will rnakn its longnst run in history in 2005, with 12 scrl'tmings hl'tWIHHl Thursday and .Jan. 2h. Shows arl' at 7 p.m. and I 0 p.m. every night nx1~npt Sunday, wlwn tlwrn will bn no SITI11'11 i ngs. 
Tirknts an1 $] l'or Notre Damn stu­dnnts, $!i for Nolrn Damn fa1~ulty and staff and $(J for the gnJHll'al public. ThPy can lw purrhasnd in advance at thl' Performing Arts CPnter Box Of'licn. l'asl festivals hav11 sold out. and with t.IH• n11w VPnun in llw mix it would he no surprisn if' this yPar's did as well. 
Highll'nn short studnnt f'ilms arn 
being featured, but to sec all of them you'll need to go to two separate screenings. Eight of tho films are on the block at every sereening, with the other 10 split between tho 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. shows. Pull out tho old scientif­k calculator and you 'II realize that's 13 films per screening. For $3, how can you go wrong'? 
All thn lilms are thn work of the tal­entnd and incredibly crnativo students in tho department of l'ilm, television and theatre. They wnrn made as proj­nets for elass during the past year. You'll see a good mix of serious and humorous l'ilms at this year's Student Film Fnstival. 
"Ellen, Sara, Sh<wn & tho Hnst of' Us," is a film by Sarah Cunningham and Ernin Grigg about a bar in Pittsburgh that usPs a midget as an attraction to bring people in on ·Monday nights. "Piston Envy" is a hilarious documen­tary on auto shows in Mishawaka by f'ilmmaknrs Monika Mehlmann and Bailey J•:rtel. 
On the morn serious and introspee-


live side, llat.tie Lim givns us a film called "Near the Equator," which "explores a relationship bntwPnn t.wo friends and takes tho audience with them on their journey whieh is not quite ready to end." From Deacon Bruno conws "Dissolvn," a film that. fol­lows a man as he visits his childhood homos. 
The first Notre Dame StudPnt Film Festival was held in the basement of' McKenna llall, f'or an audience of 75 people. Tho next year it was moved to the Snite Museum of Art. where it remained until the renovation of the Carey Auditorium inside llesburgh Library a f'ew years back. 
The completion of the DeBartolo Center has ushered in a new era for the festival and the entire FTT depart­ment. Tho number of FTT majors has gone from 150 to 215 in one year -a 43 percent increase. 
The Browning Cinema boasts TIIX certified sound and stadium seating. The venue is a drastic improvement from the Carey Auditorium. 
"It's the real thing," said Ted 
Mandell. a llll'mlwr of' thn l'ilm and video production faculty. "Our students will get to sen tlwir l'ilms shown in a statn-oJ'-thn-art motion pic~turn ciJH'nHt for tho lirst tinw and it's vory nxciling." 
While tho Browning Cinnma only seats 200 eomparnd to the Can~y Auditorium's 2(d, thP additional screenings oiTnredwill actually allow morn peoplo to sew tlw Fnstival this year than last. A little ovnr 2,000 attonded tlw 15th annual Notre~ Danw Studcmt Film Festival. while around 
2.400 are nxpeeted to nnjoy tho films this year. 
Another huge advantage of' tho nnw venue is concessions. Like other movi«' theaters, the Browning Cinema oiTnrs popcorn, soda and other treats to munch on whiln you wateh the hard work of fellow Notre Dame students on the silver sereen. 
The 200!i Student Film Festival promises to be a memorable oceasion. Tickets are on sale now and will proba­bly sell out quickly. 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.cdu 


---------------------------~----­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Florida State knocks off No.3 Wake Forest 
with 37 seconds left. Michigan State finally stopped 
Associated Press Thornton scored 20 of his 26 Purdue in the final minute after TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -What points after halftime, including Ager ended his scoring barrage a time to miss. Florida State's first four of the with a 3-pointer with 1:11 left. After making an NCAA­overtime, and finished with a Ager was 1-of-3 in the first record 50 consecutive free game-high 10 rebounds. half before finishing 7 -of-11 ­throws, Wake Forest's top free "We needed that type of effort including 3-of-5 on 3-pointers throw shooter miss1~d -with from them and they all came -and making five of six free the game tied at 76 and 4 sec­through," Hamilton said. throws. He tied his season high onds left. Chris Paul scored 29 points, and fell two points short of his And Florida State didn't give just one shy of his career high, career high. the third-ranked Demon Downey added 21 and Eric "He did a great job making Deacons another chance -Williams had 18 for Wake baskets when they needed winning 91-83 in overtime. Forest. them," Keady said. "That was a moment where I Paul was 9-of-14 from the Both teams were coming off was probably a little con­field. made 10 straight free heartbreaking setbacks. cerned," Florida State coach throws and led his team with Michigan State blew an eight­Leonard Hamilton said. "They nine rebounds. point lead in the linal 1:55 in a had hit what, 50 straight free No. 19 Michigan State 71, loss Sunday at Wisconsin, and throws." Purdue 64 Purdue lost in double-overtime But Taron Downey missed Maurice Ager and Shannon to Indiana at home Saturday. after being fouled while making Brown prevented Michigan "I don't use Wisconsin as an a desperation 3-pointer. State from falling apart for the excuse -it's a reality," Izzo Downey was surprised that second straight game. said. "We not only had a tough Florida State's Ralph Mims was Ager had 19 of his 22 points loss, we were beaten up a bit." whistled for the foul. in the second half and Brown After a slow start Tuesday, "It felt good when it left my scored a career-high 20 to help the Spartans held Purdue with­hand," Downey said. "But you the 19th-ranked Spartans get out a field goal for 8:30 late in know, it happens like that past Purdue. the first half and went on an sometimes." "Thank God that Shannon 18-4 run, helping them lead 36­Wake Forest (15-2, 4-1 Brown played probably his best 27 at halftime. Atlantic Coast Conference) game as a Spartan," Michigan Keady, who will retire after made 32 straight Saturday in a State coach Tom lzzo said. the season, was given a stand­95-82 win over North Carolina "And thank God, Maurice Ager ing ovation and a gift before the and its lirst 18 Tuesday night had a phenomenal second game. Keady and his wife will before Downey's miss. half." join close friend and former Wake Forest's 50 straight free The Spartans (11-3, 3-1 Big Michigan State coach Jud throws eclipsed the mark of 49 Ten) looked sluggish early, still Heathcote and his wife for a set in 1991 by Indiana State. reeling from their collapse at weekend of golf, sailing and "They'd already set a Wisconsin on Sunday, before dining at Bay Harbor in north­record," Hamilton mused. "It riding Ager's sharp shooting ern Michigan this summer. was time to start another one." late in the game for their eighth "I thought it was beautiful Wright. uncontested shots at the bas­Todd Galloway scored nine win in nine games. and I appreciate the gift," said McKenzie, Terrell Everett and ket. straight points in overtime and Carl Landry scored a career­Keady, who is in his 25th sea­Kevin Bookout each scored 12 It didn't get any better after finished with a career-high 21 high 31 points for Purdue (4-son at Purdue and 27th overall. points for the Sooners, who that for No. 17 Mississippi State to help Florida State snap Wake 11, 0-5) and David Teague had No. 18 Oklahoma 70, Texas shot 53 percent against the (15-4, 3-2), which matched its Forest's 10-game winning 13. The Boilermakers are 0-5 A&M 54 nation's top-rated defense for second-worst loss, a 113-64 streak with a 91-83 victory in the Big Ten for the first time Drew Lavender scored a sea­field-goal percentage _ A&M defeat at Louisville on Dec. 8, Tuesday night. since the 1962-63 season. son-high 23 points and entered limiting opponents to 1954. The game was supposed Von Wafer scored 25 of his "We're getting better, inch by Oklahoma snapped Texas just 35.2 percent shooting. to be a battle for early control career-high 30 points in the inch," Purdue coach Gene A&M's 11-game home winning Wright led the Aggies with 24 of the SEC West, but it ended first half as Florida State (1 0-8, Keady said. "I wish it were a streak with a victory. points on 8-of-12 shooting, and up looking more like a non-con­2-3) twice opened 19-point yard or so every once in a The 18th-ranked Sooners was the only A&M player to ference mismatch. leads on its way to a 46-32 lead while." (14-2, 3-0 Big 12) have won score in double figures. The Bulldogs trailed just 9-8 at halftime. The Spartans led by 13 early eight straight and 12 of 13, The Aggies have lost two early but went 14:33 without a "We've talked about him for in the second half before the keeping pace with No. 2 Kansas straight and three of their past field goal before Roberts two days," Wake Forest coach Boilermakers rallied. Purdue (13-0, 3-0) as the early leaders four-all in the Big 12-after banked one in with 1:04 left in Skip Prosser said. "He's a time went on a 15-3 run to pull to for the regular-season league starting the season 11-0. A&M the first half: They shot 3-of-20 bomb. Our players were cog­43-42 with 9:16left. crown. got off to that fast start mostly in the half. Mississippi State, nizant of that." Sparked by his steal and Lawrence McKenzie sparked by beating lightly regarded which fell to 1-2 since second­Prosser wanted his team to dunk, Ager then scored 10 of Oklahoma's game-closing 13-1 opponents such as Louisiana­leading scorer Winsome Frazier keep Wafer from getting the 11 points for the Spartans over run with consecutive 3s and Monroe, Texas-Permian Basin, was lost to a broken foot, has ball. the next three-plus minutes Lavender finished it by scoring an NAIA school, and Trinity, a lost two straight road games "I haven't seen a guy yet and 17 of their next 22 points. seven straight points to help Division III school. since winning 16 in a row. score without the ball," Prosser "That steal defines what seal the victory. No. 22 Alabama 98, No. 17 Without him, the Bulldogs said. coach Izzo is trying to get us to A game after scoring a then­Mississippi St. 49 had no answer for Shelton, Wafer was 6-of-8 from 3-do," Ager said. "He's always season high 20 at Baylor, the Earnest Shelton scored a Kennedy Winston (24 points) or point range and 9-of-13 overall talking about how good defense generously listed 5-foot-7 career-high 34 points and Ronald Steele (10 assists). in the first half. He was one of leads to offense." Lavender again powered Alabama held Mississippi State With 23 points, Shelton three Seminoles who had Despite Ager's shooting, the Oklahoma's bruising offensive without a field goal for nearly outscored the Bulldogs by him­career highs in the game. Spartans struggled to build a attack with floaters in the lane 15 minutes of the first half in a self in their lowest-scoring first "You've got to stop somebody lead larger than six because and timely 3s from all around victory that was the Bulldogs' half of the season. He scored 14 and we couldn't stop anybody," they couldn't stop Purdue, the arc. worst loss in 50 years. consecutive points during one Prosser said. especially Landry near the bas­The Sooners' lightning-quick The No. 22 Crimson Tide (14-stretch, including four of his AI Thornton and Galloway ket. point guard was virtually 3, 3-1 Southeastern five first-half 3-pointers. The took up the slack after Wafer "We couldn't guard the post unstoppable, forcing the Aggies Conference) allowed just three half ended fittingly, with cooled. with a fish net," Izzo said. (12-3, 1-3) to guard him with a field goals in the first half for a Winston draining a 26-footer at Galloway scored nine points "Either we are not very good in group of defenders ranging 49-18 lead, shutting down the the buzzer after point guard in just over 2 minutes to give there, or we saw the new MVP from point guard Acie Law to Bulldogs' backcourt and deny­Gary Ervin picked up his third the Seminoles an 89-80 lead of the league." 6-foot-7 forward Antoine ing star Lawrence Roberts foul on a charge. 

AP Florida State's Todd Galloway drives against Wake Forest's Chris Paul in the Seminoles' 91-83 overtime win. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
2-6 bedroO'm homes for 05-06  New 4-bdrm.3-bath home  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5  
WANTED  FoR SALE  Walking distance from ND. MMMRentals.com  Avail8/05. Cathedral ceiling, fireplace, deluxe  PERSONAL  Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City,  
532-1408  kitchen, skylights,  Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica,  
Reliable childcare needed for 2 chil­ Pre-owned Dell computers. $100­ House for rent across from ND.  2-car garage, family room,  Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award  
dren.  250. 574-229-3333.  Avail now and for  10x20 deck.  Spring Break 2005 with STS,  Winning Company!  
Schedule varies,3 days/week  2005-06 school yr.  Safe area.  America s #1 Student Tour  SpringBreakTravel.com  
10:30-5:00  Complete working computers $125  Call574-232-4527 or  Operator.  1-800-678-6386  
(8:00-5:00 non school days),  574-286-3295.  Call 232-0875.  269-683-5038.  Hiring campus reps.  
which includes school pick up.  Call for group discounts.  BOSOX FANS check out newyork- 
Reliable vehicle, proven driving record,and  FoR RENT  Furn.room w/amenities in private home.  HOUSES FOR RENT:3-5 BED­ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI- Info/Reservations  chokees.net  
child care history are required.  
 Near UP Mall.  TION.CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  1-800-648-4849  Come on Jim, get some Cubbies.  
1 bdrm apt 1/2 mile to ND.$550/mo.  Nice area.  
Call Amy,287-5152 after 6pm.  Laundry incl. Call 283-0325  www.Daveshouse.com  Call Sean 532-1895.  www.ststravel.com  No names? No problem.  

------~-------o--------, 

Wednesday, January 19, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 


Roddick, Hewitt advance to second round 
Federer in position to bring home third straight Grand Slam 
Associated Press 
MI·:I.BOUBNE. Australia­Andy Hoddirk and Llllyton llnwitt had littltl trouble win­ning in tho first round or tho Australian Open, starting tlwir bids to stop Hoger FPderer from winning a third straight (;rand Slam titln. 
Sncond-ranklld Hoddick spent a sPt figuring out how to hamlin lnfl-haruiPd {;porgian lrakli l.ahadzn lwl'orn swPPping to a 7-5, h-2, h-1 win Tunsday. llewitt got progrossivnly morn JHlmpPd in a (,-:{, 6-4. (>-1 win ovl'r Arnaud Clmnent, his third win against tho Frenchman in as many wonks. 
llnwitt lost thrnn limos to FodnrPr in majors last soason, including thn final of tho U.S. Optm 
Thosn are two stats Hoddick is determinod to rectify. He could meet Howitt in the Australian Open semifinals, and Fodnror in tho final. 
Being wodgod bP.tweon Fodernr and No. 3 Howitt is somnthing Hoddiek doesn't like, not that he minds being just outside t.he spotlight. 
"Obviously being in Lleyton 's home country, that's not sur­prising," he said. "With Hoger playing t.ho way hn has, he doli­nitnly desorves all thn spotlight. But that's not something I'm really too concerned with right now. 
"I just try to go businoss as usual. You know, I think people kind of around tho game notice it a little bit more than I would." 
Hoddick decided his game had "plateaued" last season, when hn failed to add a major title to his hrnakthough win at thn 2003 U.S. Open. So he split 
liP also lost in  "With Roger  with coach Brad  
tho final at tho snason-nnding Masters Cup.  playing the way he has. he definitely  Gilbert and joined up with tho more low-key Dean  
Fndnrnr  won  deserves all the  (;oldl'inl1,  a  U.S.  
three Slams in 2004, in1~luding thn ynar's last  spotlight . ... Ijust try to go business  Davis Cup and Olympie coach. It hasn't been a  
two:  Wimbledon  as usual."  long partnership,  
and the U.S. OpPn.  but the chemistry  
l>nspitP. losing his last six match­ns against  Andy Roddick tennis player  and the different work ethic arc helping Hoddiek's  
Fodnnlr, llnwitt's  progress.  
rneord  (7-Sl  is  "I fnel that way.  

lwttnr against the 23-yoar-old And obviously time will tell," he Swiss start than Hoddick's (1-said. "I moan, Int.'s be honest, S). llewitt also lnads Hoddick 4-it's been a month. So, you 
1. know, if you could completely overhaul a guy who is 2 in the world in a month and make him improve a lot, thon, I got a great deal, didn't I? 
"But that's the goal." 
Top-ranked Lindsay Davenport had to reset hor goals after eonsidoring quitting last season. 
But she played superbly on tho summer hard-court circuit to return to No. 1 and, in a wide opnn draw, believes she can win her fourth Slam Lillo­and first sincn thn 2000 Australian Opon. 
II' her start was any indica­tion, she's over a nagging knee problem and a bout of bronchi­tis that limited hor prnparation for Melbournn Park. 
A potentially tough first­round match against 1994 Wimbledon champion Con­chita Martinez. who'd beaten her six times at majors, turned into a mismatch. Davenport won 6-1, 6-1 in 48 minutes, tying thnir hnad-to-head record at S-ail and leaving Martinnz looking morn likn the player who started the tournament with an illness. 
The 32-yoar-old Spaniard won only seven points in the second snt. 
"She's given me a lot of fits early in my carom·," Davenport said. "It's so odd -there's not many people that I could play in tho first round that I pon't have a winning record against." 
Venus Williams, who won the last of her four majors at the 
U.S. Open in 2001, defeated Eleni Daniilidou Greece 6-1, 7­
5. Williams had 17 winners and 26 unforced errors. 


"I didn't have the best rhythm ... but I played OK, I think, when it r·oally matterod," the eighth-seeded Williams said. "At. the 5-all gamos, I really picked up. I think it was good for me to got to that because then I was able to play bettor." 
French Open champion Anastasia Myskina had only four errors in the first sot but lost her last thrP.e serviee games in a 6-1. 6-4 defeat of Kveta Peschke. 
She joined Hussia's two othor Gra"nd Slam titlists Wimbledon winner Maria Sharapova and U.S. Open champion Svetlana Kuzno­tsova-in the second round. 
Joining her compatriots was sixth-seeded Elena Dementieva, the runner-up at the French Open and U.S. Open. 
Sharapova and Kuznetsova are back in action Wednesday, although Kuz-netsova was busy off the court dealing with a doping charge. 
She joined WTA Tour CEO Larry Scott in a sharp rebuke of Belgian regional sports min­ister Claude Eerdekens, who announced that the Russian player tested positive for tho stimulant ephedrine during a 
-

charity evP.nt last month. 
While the common ingrndient in cold medicine is on the bannnd list during compntition. it's not off-limits during thn oiT­snason. 
"I pride myself on being a elean athlete or tlw higlwst. integrity and am oiTnndnd by those disgraeel'ul allngations," said Kuznntsova, who passnd at least 11 doping tests last SPa­son. 
Scott called the announcn­ment "prnmaturn, highly irrn­sponsible and damaging to thn sport," and said he doubts Kuznetsova will bo pnnalized. 
On Tuesday, Eerdokens defondod his docision to identi­fy Kuznetsova, oven though a backup test hasn't been done and other stops in tennis' anti­doping ruins weren't follownd. 
"I did my duty. All of my duty," Ecrdekens told Thn Associated Pross in an inter­view in Belgium. 
"International tennis should be happy that wo try to show that tonnis is a dean sport." 
Kuznetsova faces Marion Bartoli of Franco on Wednesday, whiln Sernna Williams, Sharapova and sne­ond-ranked Amelie Mauresmo aro in action in the bottom half of thn womnn's draw. 

University nf NolrP Dame.:" Dep.JrlmL•nl of Mw.;ic 
Faculty Recital 
JOHN BLACKLOW 
PIANIST 
].5. Bacli 
Frl!llcil Suite ill E, BWV 817 
Alban Berg 
Pia11o Sonata, Op. 1 
Fryderyk Chopin 
Barcarolle, Op. 60-L.tude, Op. 10, No. 4 
Robert Schumann 
Symphonic Etudes, Op. 13 
8:00p.m. Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General admission $10; faculty I staff $8; seniors $6; students $3 phone 574-631-2800 for tickets 
-. 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
NHL 
League officials to meet in Chicago for talks 
After 125 days without professional hockey, last-resort meeting could save the season despite late start for players 
dynamic but I don't think it's atypical or abnormal at all for these types of discussions to be occurring," Daly said. 
Linden didn't immediately return several phone messages left for him. 
Daly will join Hotchkiss, a Calgary Flames part owner, and outside counsel Bob Batterman in representing the NHL; Linden, NHLPA senior director Ted Saskin, and out­side counsel John McCam­bridge will take part for the players. 
Linden isn't bringing a new proposal with him and he isn't looking for great attention. It wasn't until late Tuesday that word filtered out that the meeting would take place in Chicago. 
Saskin said the players won't present a new proposal Wednesday but added that the union is "committed to reach­ing a fair deal that does not include a salary cap." 
Daly has maintained that the owners aren't prepared to make a new offer, either, since they put forth the last one. 
"Nothing has changed at this point," Daly said. "A lot will depend now as to what hap­pens tomorrow whether that changes the dynamics in any material way." 
There have been no talks since Dec. 14. It was then that the sides sat down for the sec­ond time in six days after not meeting for three months, but any optimism was lost quickly. 
The players presented a pro­posal that offered an immedi­ate 24 percent rollback on all existing contracts, but since it didn't provide cost certainty it was rejected by the owners. 
A counterproposal was then presented by the NHL. Once the players' association saw that the offer included a salary cap, it was turned down imme­diately. 

tATE NITE 

(~ATECHISi\1 2 
Sornellmes We Feel Guilty Becaus.e We Are Guilty · 
T!IEAI'RE LEAGUE 
OF SOL'JH BEND, INC. v.ww.BroadwayTheatreLeague.com 
What's more interesting about the meeting is who won't be present. 
Linden reached out to the league by inviting Harley Hotchkiss, the chairman of the NHL board of governors, to sit down and talk without NHL commissioner Gary Bettman and union head Bob Goodenow in the room. 
"I think the dynamic of hav­ing Trevor Linden there with Harley Hotchkiss will be a new 

It will feel less constricting at a great job. 

( 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -With nothing to lose but the rest of the hock­ey season, Vancouver Canucks forward Trevor Linden thought his idea was worth a shot: 
Get together a small group of representatives from NHL management and the players' union and try to find some middle ground that would jump-start talks toward ending the 125-day lockout. 
That is, try to do what previ­ous, more formal negotiations couldn't. 
And so on Wednesday, six people -three from each side -will meet in Chicago for this very purpose. Failure to pro­duce even some movement, likely will signal the end of any hopes that the season can be saved. 
Through Tuesday, 655 of the 1,230 regular-season games were canceled as was next month's All-Star game. 
"I don't think [Wednesday! is necessarily the last chance," Bill Daly, the NHL's chief legal officer told The Associated Press on Tuesday. "I do think we're in a critical period, there is no doubt about it. I think we not only need to make progress but move toward a resolution and come to a reso­lution very soon in order for there to be hockey to be played this season." 
FORTUNE. 



100 BEST 

COMPANIESg
TO WORK FOR~ 

At Ernst & Young, the opportunity for growth is enormous. We offer over 
7,000 professional development programs -some of the best formal learning programs in the country -because our philosophy is People First. We recognize that our employees are essential to the firm's growth and success. And in order to attract the best talent, we've built an environment that Fortune® magazine has consistently recognized as one of the" 100 Best Companies To Work For." So whether you're looking for a place to grow or a great place to work, look for our recruiters on campus. ey.comjusjcareers 
Quality In Everything We Do 
Wednesday, January 19, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 





FAITHPOINT 
January 19, 2004 

Don't Let the Semester Slip Away 
by FR. RICHARD WARNER, CSC 
Director ofCampus Ministry 
Now that the busy fall semester is behind us, and winter has settled in, we have a chance at the beginning of the semester to set some priorities for ourselves tor the rest ofthe academic year. While the temptation may be great to stay in the residence halls or our off-campus apartments as much as possible, at least during the week, this really is a good time to get around to th!ngs that may have been on your "to do" list tor a long time. We have a sense that the spring semester can really drag on, and anyone who has spent time on campus knows what the "forty days of February'' can be like. 
But Lent is just three weeks away, the work is already piling up, and after Spring break and Easter, the semester will rush to a close as it always does. 
Notre Dame offers all its students many oppor­tunities to develop and strengthen their spiritual lives. There are few places where more possibilities are available, and no place where young people take their Christian faith more seriously than they do here. 
This semester, Campus Ministry offers a wide array of retreats, from our traditional ones such as the NDE and the Freshmen Retreat, to special time designed especially for different groups. These retreats include offerings for Senior ROTC cadets and midshipmen, the Women's Retreat, the Man's 
for gay and lesbian students and their friends, to 
mention just a few. 

Theology on Tap will return January 26 fbr six more sessions and Four:7 (Christian Music & Prayer) begins again every Wednesday night at l 0:00 
p.m. Emmaus groups will continue to form and meet. Campus Bible Study, on Matthew's Gospel, is back, and will take place every Tuesday night begin­ning January 25 in 316 Coleman-Morse with time for discussion and fellowship. 
Any member of our staff would be happy to speak with you personally about these programs. We have lists ofexperienced men and women who serve ac;; spiritual directors. 
But please do not let the first weeks ofthe semester slip away, as you know they have a ten­dency to do. Notre Drune is a community ofschol­ars and a community ofbelievers. Take advantage 

TORIGHT 

111611:1 
10-11 pm CoMo Lounge Topic: ..God's Silence & Loving Like Christ" 

TCJDAY, 1/19 *Four:7 (see above) *Sant'Egidio Prayer Community 
(5:30pm, Log Chapel) 
THURSDAY, 1/20 *Sign-ups start for NDE #85 
(Applications due 1 /31) 
*Taize Prayer Service 
(7-7:45pm Lewis Chapel) 

FRIDAY, 1/21 *MBA Retreat (1121-22) *Asian-American Student Retreat 
(1121-23 at Epworth Forest Camp) 
*Freshman Retreat Applications due 
(retreat is 1128-29) 
SATURDAY, l/22 *Vigil Mass (5 pm, Basilica) 

*Solemn Mass of the Blessed Virgin Mary (9am, Alumni Chapef) 
REXT TUESDAY 

-
7:30-9:30 pm 316 CoMo with Fr. Frank Zagorc 
SUNDAY, 1/23 *10:00 am Mass (Basilica) *11:45 am Mass (Basilica) 
*Spanish Mass (1:30pm. St. Ed's) *Law School Mass 
(5 pm, Law School Chapel) 
*MBA Mass 

(7 pm, Mendoza Facul~v Lounge) 
MDNDAY, 1/24 *JPW Lector Auditions 
(4-5 pm Basilica) 
*Eucharistic Adoration 
Every Monday-Thursday (1 2-7 pm, COMO Chapel) 
TUESDAY, 1/25 *JPW Lector Auditions 
(4-5 pm Basilica) *Bible Study (see above) 
Weekend, the Senior Service Retreat, and a weekend 1-----------------L------------------l 
~~~~ -:_ LIVE IT!!! 
//r·"'(""'" 


All across campus, ND students are living out their faith. Teams of students sing their hearts out in the Basilica and in the dorms, prepare and lead Campus Ministry retreats, share in small Emmaus groups, and set a great example for all of us. 


We've all been touched by the example of somebody who confidently lives out his or her call as a Christian. Starting next week, this section will introduce you to diflerent NO student leaders of faith. 
let US knOW whO OUt there iS making adifferencel 
ofthe~~~mre~um~~erh~e~~~m~m~-----~S~e~n~d~n~o~m~i~n~a~n~·o~n~s~~~~c~~~r~l~~~~-~n~d~~~-----~ 
love for God in ways that will strengthen your faith 

Catholic Q&A 
and make your time under the Dome that much more ~MAf'i 1'Mi CUI. IA)l1'M PtAI{£t 10 MAt'{ A1'M£ 'AIK1'i1 CJK''fla)£ ®i1'ao Dlt£C!.1'1..1{ 10 11oc1 
worthwhile. Intercessory prayer, such as
Spring break will be here before you know it! 
that directed toward Mary and the 

And that may well mark the beginning of the end of 
saints, is probably something
academic year 2004-2005. 

you've experienced often without Ycm may have noticed that mtr page has a new look. Our "Faithpoint" even realizing it. Anytime we ask page features a calendar o.f"Campus Ministry events for the week, a someone to pray for us, we are portrait offaith~filled student leaders we will highlight. and a "Q & A" actually asking that person to section on Catholic teaching, in addition to the readings for the Sunday intercede to God on our behalf. Masses. We 'If be rtsing this Considerations column to offer pastoral And when you promise to pray for reflections on currem e~·ems. someone, you basically promise to 
Third Sunday in Ordinary Time remember that person in your own SHHOIIJI 
1st 

2nd Gospel prayers to God. In both cases, we Isaiah 
I Corinthians Matthew I 
would assume (and hope!) that the 
ScriptHres 

1:10-13, 17 4:12-23
8:23-9:3 

person making the request for 1--------=----...:..----.....:.------lprayers is indeed already praying Phone 
to God for that specific intention 1-7800 or concern. Our prayers, then, act Web only as further petition to God on campusminjs t!}'.nd.edu behalf of the other person; they do Main Office not replace the Christian's personal 319 CoMo prayer to God. In a similar way, Retreats Office campus Minis try prayers to Mary & the saints (our 
114 CoMo 

Senq yout 
cr 

brothers and sisters in Christ) are always directed at asking them to pray for us, as is true in the most famous of intercessory prayers, the Hail Mary: "Holy Mary ...pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death!" These intercessory prayers are never meant to be seen as worship of Mary or the Saints. 
Through belief in the Communion of Saints (as professed 

uestions to Petkins.26@nd.edu! 
"' 'ill 
in the great ecumenical 
Apostles' Creed), we 
understand that the mystical 
Body of Christ, the Church, is 
comprised of all the faithful 
living on earth or already united 
to God in heaven following 
their earthly death. since 
Christians have always seen the 
value of the prayers of the 
righteous ( cf. James 5: 16), how 
much more valuable then are 
the prayers of those who are 
very much alive in Jesus Christ, 
those with God in heaven? 
If we are indeed one 
Christian community, whether 
-

on earth or in heaven, then we should feel free to ask all our friends, whether on earth or in heaven, to remember us in their own prayers to God as well! 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
BIG EAST BASKETBALL 




St. John's upsets Pitt in 65-62 underdog victory 
Orangemen hold off Hoyas in overtime

-
Associated Press NEW YORK -The list of why St. John's 65-62 victory over No. 21 Pittsburgh on Tuesday night was big was a long one. From it being the first Big East win for first-year coach Norm Hoberts to it snapping a three­game losing streak of which the last two were dose ones. From it letting the Red Storm better last season's win total to it being one where they lost a big lead but found a way to pull it out in the final 25 seconds. From the postgame celebra­tion on the court to the giddi­ness in the locker room later, it was big. "It was a terrific basketball game and it was one I think our players really deserved to win based on what they did the last two weeks," Hoberts said. "We've been coming close but coming up short. Tonight, for Pittsburgh, the ball bounced off the rim instead of going in. We never gave up even when things didn't go right for us." Daryll Hill scored 26 points, including three free throws in the final 25 seconds, for St. John's, which lost close road games to West Virginia and Notre Dame to extend its losing streak to three games. Hill, who had career highs of 29 and 30 in his last two games, only had three points over the final 15 minutes but they were enough to give the Red Storm (7-7, 1-3 Big East) their second win this season over a ranked team. The last game before the los­ing streak started was a 63-45 

'EAATJVLKa 

victory over then-No. 17 North Carolina State, also at Madison Square Garden. 
"In those other games we stayed close but we knew we had the talent," said the sopho­more who is leading the Big East in scoring with a 20.5 aver­age. "We showed everybody we can play with anybody." 
Carl Krauser had 22 points, seven assists and eight turnovers for the Panthers (12­3, 3-2), who had won two in a row after dropping two straight at home. 
"We put ourselves in a hole and weren't able to fmish it off," said Jamie Dixon, who led the Panthers to the Big East title last season as a rookie coach. "We are obviously not where we want to be as far as how we are playing." 
St. John's, which has won eight of its last 10 against Pittsburgh, opened the second half with a 16-6 run to take a 52-41 lead with 13:37 to play. 
That's when the Red Storm started to struggle against Pittsburgh's 2-3 zone. The Red Storm went 8:18 without a field goal and the Panthers went on a 15-2 run to take a 56-54 lead with 6:08 left. 
Lamont Hamilton broke the field goal drought with 5:15 to play, tying it at 56. 
"Give them credit. They did a great job with the zone of mak­ing it tough for our big guys to pass it out and then our guards got a little frustrated trying to make something happen," Roberts said. "We stayed strong. When we had to get stops we got stops." 
Krauser made two free throws with 1:39 to go to give Pittsburgh a 62-59 lead, and the Red Storm tied it for the last time on a three-point play by Dexter Gray with 48 seconds left. Those were Gray's only points of the game. 
Hill and Gray double-teamed Krauser into a turnover on the next possession and Hill was fouled. Ile made two free throws with 25 seconds left to give St. John's a 64-62 lead. 
"When Carl took the second dribble, we trapped it and I grabbed the ball and got it to Daryll," Gray said. 
Syracuse 78, Georgetown 73 

Given a reprieve by Brandon Bowman's size-17 feet, Syracuse made sure surprising Georgetown didn't pull off another upset on the road. 
The Hoyas won at Pittsburgh and Rutgers, threatened at Connecticut before falling 66-59, and were coming off a last-sec­ond win at Villanova, and Bowman nearly made the sev­enth-ranked Orange the next victim. 
But when he hit a jumper from the top of the key with 2.3 seconds left in regulation, his feet were barely on the 3-point line and it left the score tied at 67, forcing overtime. Syracuse then scored the first seven points of the extra period and held off the Hoyas 78-73 for its 11th straight victory. 
"Thank God he was on the line," said Gerry McNamara, who scored 17 points and made five 3-pointers to run his career total to a school-record 251. "We knew we were going to play a tough team." 
The victory kept Syracuse (18­1, 5-0 Big East) atop the Big East, but Georgetown (11-5, 3­
2) gave the Orange their tough-



SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO STUDY LANGUAGES FOR WHICH THE UNIVERSITY DOES NOT HAVE LARGE OVERSEAS STUDY PROGRAMS. 
Grants are designed to cover only aportion of program costs. 
For details and application lorms, go to: 

http://www.nd.edu/~sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies· {154 Hurley Building· Ph 1·5203) 


application deadline: 3/4/05 


Sponsored by the Office ofInternational Studies and the College ofArts and Letters 
est game of the season despite serious foul trouble for its top three scorers. 
Hakim Warrick had 25 points and 11 rebounds, Josh Pace had 13 points, and Craig Forth had 10 points and 10 rebounds, his first double-double of the sea­son, for the Orange. McNamara was 5-for-12 on 3-pointers and broke Preston Shumpert's school record for 3-pointers by two. 
Syracuse took charge early in the overtime. Louie McCroskey hit a 15-foot baseline jumper to start the biggest run of the game for either team, McNamara drained a 3 from the right cor­ner after Bowman missed two free throws, and Warrick sailed in alone for a resounding one­hand slam dunk after a turnover in the lane by Jonathan Wallace. 
That gave Syracuse a 74-67 lead, the largest for either team in the game. 
Wallace atoned with his fourth 3-pointer of the game to pull the Hoyas to 74-70 at 2:34, but McNamara, who had seven assists, hit a push shot in the lane and Warrick converted two free throws with 7.1 seconds left to ice it. 
Bowman, who was whistled 


G-reat Food! 
for his fourth foul with 5:31 left in regulation, just shook his head in dismay afterward while lamenting his big feet. 
"I saw an opportunity and knocked it down," said Bowman, who scored 19 points before fouling out in the final seconds. "I thought it was a 3, but I guess my shoes are too big. I wish I was a size 14." 
It was so close the officials looked at the replay before rul­ing it a two-pointer. 
"We wanted to put the ball in his [Bowman's] hands and let him decide," Hoyas first-year coach John Thompson III said. "I thought he was behind the line, but the replay showed he wasn't." 
When Syracuse blitzed the Hoyas in the overtime, Thompson's first visit to the Carrier Dome turned into a bit­ter disappointment. But it might have started to rekindle what once was one of the fiercest rivalries in college basketball when his father prowled the sidelines as coach for 27 years before retiring in 1999. 
''I'm kind of sorry Coach Thompson is back at Georgetown," Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said with a smile. 


G-reat Fut~! 

#l Sports Jar it~ South Jet~d 204-6 South Jet~d Ave ~ Across frottt Martit~s Plaza 272~1766 
fu£s: CoLL£0.£ N1c-Hr ~ UJ 6-SP£CIALS (srAr.nNc-Ar ?1.001 Wed: Live fRIVIA Night ~ Jrit~g your teatMs ~ Prizes fHUitS: UJ -Pet1t1Y Night ~ 1~ Specials startit'lg at 
9:00PM 


AROUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 19, 2005 CoMPILED FROM T1--1E 0BsERVEits WIRE SERVICES page 19 
Women's Swimming & Diving CSCAA Top 25 
(.(!(lfl/  points  
1  Georgia  175  
2  Auburn  168  
3  Florida  159  
4  Arizona  156  
5  Texas  146  
6  SMU  141  
7  California  133  
8  Stanford  124  
9  Wisconsin  118  
10  Texas A&M  115  
11  UCLA  104  
12  Maryland  96  
13  Michigan  89  
14  Penn State  83  
15  North Carolina  74  
15  Virginia  74  
17  Arizona State  64  
18  Southern California  56  
19  Purdue  46  
20  Hawaii  45  
21  Florida State  28  
21  NOTRE OAME  28  
23  Northwestern  20  
24  Indiana  8  
24  Washington  8  

Men's Swimming & Diving 
CSCAA Top 25 
team 
1 Slanlord 2 
Florida 
Auburn 4 
3 
California 
Arizona 6 Southern California 7 Minnesota 8 Michigan 
9 
5 
Texas 10 Virginia 11 Kentucky 12 Georgia 13 Indiana 14 Northwestern 15 Tennessee 16 Purdue 17 Wisconsin 18 Texas A&M 19 North Carolina 20 BYU 21 NOTRE DAME 22 Hawaii 23 Florida State 24 Ohio State 24 Alabama 
liO(.eS 
200 
190 184 170 164 163 156 149 136 127 118 108 105 96 90 78 67 60 53 48 36 34 25 11 11 

CCHA Conference Hockey 
Standings 

team CCHA 
Michigan 15·1·0 Ohio State 12·3·1 Nebraska-Omaha 9·7-2 Northern Michigan 8·5·3 Bowling Green 7·5·2 lake Superior 6-6·2 Michigan Stale 7-9·0 Alaska Fairbanks 5-10·1 Ferris Slate 4-9·3 Miami Ohio 4·9·3 Western Michigan 5-10·1 NOTRE DAME 3·11·4 
ooerall 
18·5-1 15·6·3 11-9-2 10·7-5 10·7-3 7-12·3 12·11·1 6·11-1 9·12-3 8-12-4 10·11·1 5·14-5 




around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Charlotte at Cincinnati 8 p.m., ESPN2 Duke at Miami (Fla.) 8:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Bulls at Celtics 7 p.m., Comcast Pacers at Hornets 8 p.m., Fox Sports Midwest Timberwolves at Lakers 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Hoger Clemens followed a record­setting season with a reeord-setting salary request. Erie Gagne, another Cy Young Award winner, got a big deal, too. 
After winning his seventh Cy Young Award, the Hockot asked for $22 mil­lion in salary arbitration Tuesday, easily topping the previous high of $1S.5 mil­lion by New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter in 2001. 
(:lemons, who still hasn't deeided whether to pitch this year or retire, was offered $13.5 million by his hometown llouston Astros. The $8.5 million differenee was exactly double the previous record spread, set by the Yankees and Jeter. 

"We lookf~d at what some of the comparables were -Greg Maddux, Handy Johnson -and we tried to use those star-quality play­ers to eome up with a number," Astros general manager Tim Purpura said. 
Bather than swap figures with the Dodgers, Gagne agreed to a $11) million, two-year deal with Los Angeles that eontains a club option for 2007. Gagne, the 2003 NL Cy Young winner, has the 
IN BRIEF 
Offensive lineman criti­
cizes Roethlisberger 
PITTSBUHGII -Alan Faneea must be trying to motivate Ben Hoethlisberger again. 
The offensive lineman said the Pittsburgh Steelors badly need Hoethlisberger to up1-,rrade his play for Sunday's AFC championship game against New England, after the rookie quarterbaek's errors nearly led to a playotl" loss to the New York Jets. 
"lie's going to havn to piek his game up," Faneca said Mmiday. "Wn're all going to have to pick our game up, and it's going to take our best ell"ort of the season to win this wonk." 
Hoethlisberger, the NFI:s Offensive Hookie of tho Year, threw two intnrcep­tions -one for a touchdown and anothnr creating Doug Brien's poten­tial game-winning field goal try -and got nothing going as the Jets seored 17 eonsecutive points in thn seeond and third quartnrs. 
Tho Steolnrs camn back to win 20-17 in ovnrtime Saturday, but only al'ter right to void the option year, however, and become a free agent. 

Clemens was among 40 players who exehanged fig­ures with their teams, a group that included Astros outfielder Lance Berkman and AL Cy Young Award winner Johan Santana of the Minnesota Twins. Gagne was among 30 play­ers who agreed to deals before the exchange. 
In addition, tho Cubs and catcher Michael Barrett agreed to a $12 million, three-year contraet after swapping proposals. 
If he deeides to play, Clemens could have the highest salary for a pitcher 
in a season, topping tlw $17.5 million made last year by Boston's Pedro Martinez. The Yan kl)eS' Handy .Johnson has the top salary among pitchers next year, caleulatnd at $1 (>.5 million, including a pmrat­ed sharn of tho $1 million personal-snrvkns contract hn signnd with Arizona before he was tradnd to Now York. 
Clemons, 42, left the Yankees aftnr tho 200:{ season and intended to retire. But after fornwr teammate Andy Pllttitto signed with tlw Astros, Clemons was persuadml to sign with his hometown dub. 

Brien missed two field goal trios in the final two rninut11s of the limrth quarter. 
"lie was oil" a little bit, but we were all otr a JittiA bit as an oll"enSI)," Faneca said. Back injury sidelines Nash 
PHOENIX -After limping home from an 0-4 road trip, the Phoenix Suns thought they would have Steve Nash baek in the lineup Wednesday night against Memphis. Then Nash had his foot stopped on in Tuesday's practice by his backup. 
The bruisAd left thigh that sidelined Nash for the last 2 1/2 games is no longer a problem, but he twisted his baek when baekup point guard Leandro Barbosa steppnd on his foot. Nash was in obvious discomfort after more than an hour of trnatrnent. 
"It was painful," coach Mih 1>'/\ntoni said. "Wp,'ll sno if hn can gnt thn spasms out and hn might be linn, or lw might have to take a few days oil"." 
Nash is questionable for the (;rizzlies game. Barbosa, the starter in Nash's absence, loft Anwrica West Anma on crutdws with a sprainnd lnft ankh~ and won't play on Wndnesday.Sixteen avoid artiitration 
NEW YOHK -Instead of swapping salary proposals, Alfonso Soriano and Cesar lzturis were among I h playnrs who avoidnd arbitration by agreeing to deals with tlwir dubs. 
Soriano got a $7.5 million, onn­year contract with Tnxas, and lzturis agrned to a $1J.9 million, tlm~n-year dnal with Los Angnles on Monday. 
Three Atlanta Bravns -shortstop Hafael Furcal ($5.6 millionl. doser Dan Kolb ($3.4 million) and reliever Chris Heitsrna ($1.(>5 million) -and thrnn Florida Marlins right-handnrs -A. J . B u r nett. ($:{. (, 5 m iII ion J, ­Guillermo Mota ($2.6 million) and Tim Spoorwybargnr ($:{50,000) ­also got onn-ynar deals. 
Snventy playm·s rmnainml on track to exchango ligures with their teams Tunsday, but many more worn 1~xpeetnd to agrnn to contracts bdoro thn swap. 
r---------~ 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
only pick up another Big East against Purdue, scoring 18 victory, but also stay confident points on 8-of-11 shooting.
Orange 

heading into a tough stretch of Freshman Charel Allen and 
continued from page 24 games. The team will face Tuylah Gaines, along with 
Rutgers and Connecticut in the sophomore Breona Gray also despite the 17 -point victory. next 10 days. played well for Notre Dame. "We've been ranked in the "A lot of times [confidence] Syracuse, meanwhile, has 
Top 25 for some time now," has to do with you get on a already surpassed its win total she said in the post-game roll, start playing well and from a season ago when the press conference. "We've real­everything's fun, then you slip Orange went just 6-21. The ly held our poise and played up and lose confidence," team lost all-time leading scor­well. I think that tonight was McGraw said. "The key is er Julie McBride but opened the first time we maintaining the the season with five straight had a letdown." intensity with wins and are a respectable 2-2 McGraw was everything." in conference. Senior Chineze
"We can't afford to 
right with her Notre Dame is Nwagbo is the team's leader in assessment. The have a letdown. led by the tan­points per game (11.3), Irish lost their We've got to stay dem of rebounds (8. 7) and field goal next two games, Jacqueline percentage (.475). The team
focused.,

before getting Batteast and has won two straight Big East back on track Megan Duffy. games since losing to Notre with the Purdue Muffet McGraw Batteast aver­Dame a couple weeks ago. win. Irish head coach ages 18.5 points, McGraw said her team needs 
Now McGraw seven rebounds to play well to come back wants her team to and three assists home with its third conference continue making per game, while victory. strides as the calendar draws Duffy adds 11.6 points, five . "We've got a lot to improve closer to February. assists and two steals. on," she said. "We can't look 
"We can't afford to have a The Irish have also been get­past anyone." letdown," McGraw said. ting solid contributions from "We've got to stay focused." the rest of the team. Teresa Contact Joe Hettler at 
Notre Dame hopes to not Borton played exceptional jhettler@nd.edu 

NFL 

Cowher looks for first ever Super Bowl victory 
Associated Press Bowls. "Maybe the last few years said. "The only thing left for schemes are more complex 
Cowher, talking Tuesday, we've gotten away from some him to do is win a champi­than others in the league. 
PITTSBURGH -For some­didn't try to rationalize the things," Cowher said. onship." "To me, it's not so much one saddled with the reputa­Steelers' AFC title game upset That the 4 7 -year-old Cowher Doing so this season might !playing] Bill as it is playing tion of not winning the big losses to San Diego (January has been more motivated and be Cowher's biggest challenge the New England Patriots," one, Bill Cowher certainly 1995), Denver (1998) or New more energized hasn't been yet. Belichick is 8-1 in the Cowher said. "I don't think it's coaches in a lot of big games. England (2002). lost on his employers, who playoffs to Cowher's 8-8, but a mystic or anything else. You 
That's why there's extra "I think we have been pre­gave him a contract extension it's evident Cowher dislikes all have to understand going in incentive in Sunday's AFC pared to play every game," he despite last season's 6-10 of this talk about the Genius that what you see isn't always championship game for one of said. "When you go into the record. vs. the Jaw. what you get." the most successful coaches to playoffs, you are playing qual­"He's at the stage of his Despite Belichick's success Of course, the same could be never win a Super Bowl: The ity teams and you can't turn career where he's made in devising successful defen­said of the Steelers going into man widely considered pro the ball over and squander enough money, he's raised a sive game plans, Cowher championship games. football's best coach is on the scoring opportunities. Those family, he's been successful," pointedly answered "No" "We've got to seize this opposing sideline. things have a way of staring team president Art Rooney II when asked if the Patriots' opportunity," Cowher said. 
Cowher, the Steelers' coach since 1992, has won more reg­ular season games and divi­sion titles than the Patriots' Bill Belichick -and just as many playoff games. When the two went head-to-head in the same division for four seasons from 1992-95, Cowher won three division titles to Belichick's none. 
Amid the one-sided compar­isons is the singular statistic that explains why Belichick is the resident wizard among NFL coaches, and Cowher is considered to be merely among the elite. 
Super Bowls won: Belichick 2, Cowher 0. 
And it's not just winning football's biggest game that's been the problem -Cowher is 0-1 in the Super Bowl -it's getting there. This is the fifth time since 1995 the Steelers have staged the AFC title game, yet they have won only once and were upset three times as a favorite. 
Can't win the big one? Seems the problem has been more like can't-win-the-one­before-the-big-one. 
"I want to win a champi­onship," Cowher said, res­olutely, aware his career will seem incomplete unless he raises the Lombardi Trophy. "It has been a void that has been there." 

-
Void? It's been a Grand Canyon-sized crater, especially ·because he is one of only two Steelers coaches in 36 sea­sons, yet is clearly the least­accomplished. Chuck Noll might have won only two play­off games in his final 12 sea­sons, but he is still the only coach to win four Super 
you in the face at the end of a football game." 
Sounds like a simplistic answer for a complex man ­one who trails only Joe Gibbs, Bill Parcells and Mike Holmgren in playoff victories among active coaches, yet is the only one of that group without a Super Bowl title. 
Cowher dismisses the notion his teams were unprepared ­read "outcoached" -but it's evident the Steelers have altered their approach since losing 24-17 to New England in th~ AFC title game in January 2002. 
There's not a sliver of a chance Cowher would allow a Super Bowl rap video rehears­al this week, as he did 10 years ago. He also hasn't said one word about Super Bowl plans, as he did in 2002 -a miscalculation the Patriots turned into a motivational tool. 
The Steelers' minimalist plan is to focus every bit of attention on that day's prac­tice or that week's game, never once daring to look behind or ahead. It's the old one-game-at-a-time tactic, and it's worked perfectly for 16 o.f 17 games. 
"We realize the magnitude of the game, but you don't devi­ate from what you've done to get here and we're not going to do that," said Cowher, who decided not to alter practice or meeting times this week. 
Cowher adopted the approach during training camp, when he eschewed pre­vious amenities such as a day at the movies or stopping a practice early because he liked what he saw. 
WA TE 
Resident Advisors 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE PREPARATION PROGRAM 
QUALIFICATIONS,
The Northwestern University College 
• completion of sophomore year of
Preparation Program is looking for resi­
college by June, 2005 
dent advisors to help guide high school 
• a consistent record of academic students through a summer of learning 
achievement 
and fun at Northwestern. Earn salary, 
• previous experience as an RA. tutor, or camp counselor
including room and board; work with 
• excellent communication, leadership,
bright, motivated high school students 
motivation, and problem-solving skills 
from around the country and abroad; 
• a wide range of extracurricular interests and activities 
plan exciting events and gain valuable 
• enthusiasm and a genuine interest in 
experience while enjoying Northwestern 
working with high school students 
campus life and exploring Chicago this 
• a strong sense of responsibility and summer! 
a high level of maturity 
Apply by February 11, 2005! 
For information and to request an application, contact Shannon Sparks at 847-491-6703 or s-sparks@northwestern.edu. 

Wednesday, January 19, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
totallield goal attempts. up against Syracuse, the Though coach John tnam's only conference loss.
wvu 
Boilein 's squad has lost two The gamn plan callnd for a continued from page 24 of' its f'irst threo Big East strong insidn presence to confnrnneo games in nstablish Uw inside offense 
didn't work. Wn rode tlw blowout fashion to and work the ball out. lirw in nvnry othnr garnn, in Villanova (84-4(>) and But Francis and Latimore tho othnr Icon fornncnl threo Boston College (7:{-53), the cornbin•~ for an average of wins. So it's a big staple of Mountaineers pose a just 17.2 points and 13.5 our ofT•HlSO." unique threat with their rebounds per game, num­
Tlw Irish defensive bers that are not meaning­Iwad roach strategy as less but that are also not also remnm­"On Wednesday, I well as their suff'icinnt to balance and hnrs how St. want to see lay-ups outsido shoot­improve Notre Dame's . John's, who is ing . offense.
go in. 

not tradition­The custom­This could be a factor in ally a long­ary West Latimorn's decreasing min­distancn Mike Brey Virginia 1-3-1 utes in recent games. Brey shooting Loam. Irish head coach zone is geared said he does not feel mado k•~Y :{­to hassle uncomfortable playing pointers to opposing other playnrs and possibly knnp Saturday's ganw dose. guards. llowever, it leaves reinserting Hick Cornett 
Bf'I~Y said the ganw plan room for ponetration inside into thn lineup. Cornett for West Virginia, thon, is and opens passing lanes to gave the Irish productive· simph~. the perimeter and under minutes in the early season, 
"On Wndnnsday, I want to the basknt. Similar in its in particular as the anchor son lay-ups go in," hn said. strat.egy against the of a 2-3 zone that defeated "I want to hug that 13-pointl Syracuse 2-3 zone, Notre Indiana on its home floor. line. Wn'vn got to hug that Dame will Notre Dame linn against Wost Virginia, need its front­swept its two­
"My job is to relax
bnrausn it'll bn like playing court to step game series us." up and control both Tarin [Francis] with West Notre Damn will play the foul line Virginia last
and Dennis 

man-to-man for tho majori­and low block, season, beat­
/Latimore} because 
ty of the ganw -if not all which the ing the of it -in ordor to force the Irish didn't do we need them, and Mountaineers Wnst Virginia perimeter enough of it's putting a lot of 63-52 at the playors towards tho basket against the Joyce Center 
pressure on our

and away from thnir com­Orange. and squeak­fort zone. "My job is to perimeter. " ing by 65-64 "We knop a stat Ithat relax both on the road in f'l~cords) the numbor of ;{­Torin [FrancisI Morgantown.
Mike Brey

point attompts of total lield and Dennis The Irish
Irish head coach 

goals," Broy said. "We I Latimore), are 21-7 all­updato that on a daily becausn we time against basis." need them, West Virginia 
Over 46 percent of West and it's putting a lot of but only 7-5 on the Virginia's fiold goal pressure on our perimeter," Mountaineers home floor. attompts this soason have Brey said after Saturday's lwen throe-point shots, (>7-66 win. Contact Pat Leonard at accounting for 360-of-7~W Neither big man stepped pleonard@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles must shoot their 
way up in conference 
-

than 40 pnrcnnt of its shots from 
By KEN FOWLER 
the floor on the snason as a wholn. Sports Writer 
One bright spot that looms WPII for Saint Mary's is thn pnrl'ornumcP The Belles ran out of gas in over­of guard Alison Knssler. Bnginning time Saturday against Alma, but the soason on tho bnnd1, shn has sophomore guard Bridget Lip~e beeomn the MIAA's prnminr fhH~­expressed optimism in trying to throw shooter, eonnneting over X8 regain fourth place in thn MIAA percent of' hnr shots from tlw chari­tonight against Kalamazoo College. ty stripe. Lipkn is second in tlw 
"Wn have a really good chance to league at 86 percent. work our way up right now in the That accuracy from thn linn will middle of our con-bn pivotal against ference schedule," thn llornnts, as Lipke said. Kalamazoo center
"We have a really
The Belles lost 77-Ashlny Hiley enters 71 in a hard-fought good chance to work tho game loading contest, but with a tlw league in
our way up right now 
win at home, Saint blocknd shots but is
in the middle ofour
Mary's would also prone to foul improve to 3-5 on conference." trouble. With the season against Kalamazoo's dnfnnsn league opponents. keeping opponnnts
Bridget Lipke 
That would equate to just 37 percent
Belles guard 
to more conference shooting on the year, 
wins in the first half the Bnlles will be of this season than hard-pross1~d to cap­the entire 2003-04 season. italize on every opportunity. 
The improvement has come in One of' the key nutlt:h-ups of tho large part thanks to team unity. night will be in thn paint as senior 
"We all play really well as a team standouts Emily Creaehbaum of -unselfish and passing," Lipke Saint Mary's and Hilny battle in the said. "Everyone knows each other interior. Both are in the league's and isn't afraid to make the pass." top 10 for points and rebounds. 
The Belles, though, will need Tip-ofT is 7:30 p.m. tonight in the more than just team unity to climb Angela Athletic Center. back up to fourth in the MIAA. Saint Mary's must also improve its shooting. The team has struggled Contact Ken Fowler at at times this year, and is hitting less kfowler@nd.edu 
For Local Community-Based Research 
Community-Based Research Mini-Grant ­
The Center for Social Concerns is offering three mini-grants of $5,000 each to support joint faculty-student-community research partnerships that address social challenges articulated by community organizations. 
Grants may support the planning and development of new projects, the expansion of 
existing ones, project assessment, or the dissemination of findings from projects that 
are ongoing or in final stages. 
To receive funding, proposals must describe how the partnership will: 
• 
Result in measurable, positive impact in the South Bend area; 

• 
Reflect the investment of faculty expertise in the local community; and 

•Offer 
students community-based learning opportunities that promote civic responsibility. 


Go to http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/faculty/mini_grant.shtml to learn more. 
Proposals should be submitted by February 28, 2005. 

f±lUNIVERSITYOF 
~NOTRE DAME 
CENTER FOR SociAL CoNCERNs 
The Ganey Award & Grants 


Rodney F. Ganey Award 
The Center for Social Concerns is now accepting nominations for the Ganey Community-Based Research Award. 
This $5,000 award recognizes a Notre Dame faculty member who has carried out a research project or agenda that benefits the local community. 
The nominator should submit a letter describing how one research project, or a representative project from a larger body of work. has impacted the South Bend community and Notre Dame students. Nominators can include Notre Dame faculty, students, and staff, or Individuals not affiliated with Notre Dame. 
Nominees should be regular faculty (teaching-and-research faculty. research faculty, library faculty. and special professional faculty). Emeritus faculty may also be nominated. Individuals may nominate themselves. 
Go to: http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/faculty/ganey_award.shtml to learn more. 
Nominations must be submitted by March 7, 2005. 
Contact Mary Beckman, Ph.D., at 63 1-4 172, mbeckman@nd.edu, with any questions. 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2005 

Cup 
continued from page 24 
Cup. When he was inter­viewed for the job as athletic director, White said Malloy was clear that competing for the Directors' Cup was a priority, right behind winning a national championship in football. 
"Clearly his No. 2 objective was, without saying it so much, the Sears Cup," White said. "It's important for everybody to know that I just didn't wake up here one day and say, 'Let's be top-H) or top live,' that it was an objective that was clearly articulated when I came to Notre Dame." 
White also said progress is still being made in the fall sports, especially with the con­struction of a new football facil­ity, the Guglielmino Family Athletics Center, set to be com­pleted this fall. 
"I think we're still working 
CENTER FOR SoCIAL CONCERNS 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Volunteer Opportunities 
Tutoring at Salvation Army 
Salvation Army needs tutors to help out with their after-school program for 3rd through 8th graders on Mondays-Fridays from 4:00-5:00 pm. Transpor­tation can be made available. Contact Trudy Rodriquez at 386-9648. 
South Bend Reads 
This new effort to promote literacy amongst the youth of South Bend is in dire need of volunteers willing to read with young children for one hour per week. Amy Bruno from the

-
South Bend Community School's corporation (SBCSC) can be contacted for more information through e-mail at abruno@sbcsc. k 12.in. us or by phone at 283­8181. 
Tutoring at Greater Mt. Calvary Baptist Church On Tuesdays from 4-6 pm this church offers tutoring for students in 3rd-l Oth grade. If you are interested in helping, please contact Rachel Phillips at 287-4758. 
On-Campus Tutors Needed If interested in tutoring for 

-
about one hour per week at an on-campus location, please call Felipe at 1-7847 or send an email to cscvols@nd.edu. 

hard on the football, and we're closer than we've ever been," he said. "I think the Guglielmino is a really impor­tant thing here, and the new staff and their commitment, the whole thing. So we really feel like we're on our way in foot­ball." 
The final standings for the Directors' Cup are published following the completion of spring seasons and a final win­ner is established. White said this is a feas"ible goal for Notre Dame. 
"The real goal is to win a national championship in foot­ball and win a national champi­onship in those 23 other sports as well," White said. "And if we continue to move towards those two goals, we will be No. 1 in the Directors' Cup. 
"The ultimate goal that we haven't trumpeted is to be the No. 1 program in the country." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
leers 
continued from page 24 

seconds later when Dan VeNard scored his first colle­giate goal. 
However, as the second period continued, the Huskies pulled away. 
Michigan Tech's Nick Anderson made the score 3-2 on a power play goal at 7:57 when he ripped a slap shot from the left circle. 
At 11:46, the Huskies' Ryan Markham scored off of a rebound of a Malcom Gwilliam shot to increase the lead to two goals. 
The third period was more of the same from Michigan Tech, as the Huskies added two unanswered power play 
goals to turn what was a good hockey game in the early sec­ond period into a blowout by the end of regulation. 
Anderson scored his second goal at 15:26 and Brandon Schwartz scored at 19:25. 
After Saturday night's loss, Irish coach Dave Poulin expressed his feeling that the Irish had played a great third period of hockey and would love to run with that into the three non-league games this week. 
''I'd rather have kept going tonight and played another couple games tonight," Poulin said, after Saturday night's loss. 
Instead, the Irish were unable to capture that same intensity for a full three peri­ods of hockey, something that has plagued the Irish all sea-son. 


Going into Tuesday night's game, the Irish were being outscored 30-10 in the third p11riod. The two goals in the final period against Michigan Tech were consistent with that statistic. 
Despite giving up six goals, Morgan Cey had 33 saves for the Irish. 
!I" the Irish plan to turn around their season this weekend, it is not going to come easily. The Irish take on No. 5 Wisconsin Friday and Saturday night. 
MICHIGAN TECH 6, NOTRE DAME2 at the RESCH CENTER 
lsi  2nd  3rd  
Total  
NOTRE DAME  1  ()  2  
Michigan Tech  3  2  6  

SCORING SUMMARY Firs! Period MTll-Clay Wilson 3 (llyan Markham). 3:56; ND-Chris Trick 2 (Luke Lucyk. Jason Paige), 17:21. 
Second Period MTU-Chris Conner 'J (Colin Murphy. 
Lars IlelntinenJ. 2::n: ND-Dan VeNard 1 (Tim Wallace, Brock Slwahan), 3: I 0: MTV-Nick Anderson 5 (Murphy, Brandon Schwartz), PPG, 7:57; MTll-Ryan Markham, Maleolm Gwilliam), 11:46. 
Third Period MTll -Allderson 6 (Tyler Shela~t. Schwartz), PPG, 15:26; MTli­Schwartz 5 (Murphy. Cam Ell~worth), pp(;, 19:25. 
Shots on goal: Notre Dame 39, Michigan Tech 3'J. Power plays: Notre Dame 0-of-6. Michigan Tech 3-of-5. (;oalies: Morgan Cey 33 saves out of 39 shots (ND), Cam Ellsworth :~6 saves out of 39 shot~ lMTll). 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
~o 
I --=­

Social Concerns Festival held Jan. 19 
More than 40 local service agencies and social action groups will be on hand to talk with students directly about the many opportuni­ties available to get involved in the South Bend community. Drop in anytime to learn how local service and social actions can make an indelible mark on your life. 
When: Wednesday, January 19 from 7:00 to 9:00 pm Where: Center for Social Concerns 
SSP Information Session 
Come learn about exciting opportunities with the Summer Ser­vice Project Internship. The SSPI is an eight-week service-learning experience at roughly 200 agencies and organizations throughout the Unites States. 
When: Wednesday, January 26 -6:30 p.m. 
Where Multi-purpose room at the Center for Social Concerns 
Award and Mini-Grants Now Available 
The Center for Social Concerns is offering an award and three mini-grants to support community-based research in the South Bend community. The $5,000 Rodney F. Ganey Award recognizes a Notre Dame faculty member who has carried out a research project or agenda that benefits the local community. 
The $5,000 Ganey mini-grants support joint faculty-student-com­munity research partnerships that address social challenges articulated by community organizations. 
For more information, go to http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/ faculty/ 
Anti-War Protest Marks the Inaguration 
Notre Dame Progressive Faculty Student Alliance and the Progres­sive Student Alliance will be sponsoring an anti-war protest to mark the presidential inauguration. 
When: January 20, noon to 1 :00 pm 
Where: War Memorial (near LaFortune) 
Apply Now for EnCuentro Chicago 
EnCuentro Chicago is an overnight experience of fait.h, culture and community in the Hispanic Pilsen community of Chicago hosted by parishioners and staff at St. Pius V Parish cosponsored by the CSC and Campus Ministry. 
Retreat will be held Saturday February 12 overnight to Sunday February 13th. 
Applications are due to the Center for Social Concerns by Wednesday, January 19. Go to http://www.nd.edu/~commque/ documents/Encuentro_Chicago.pdf for PDF version ofap­plication. 
Contact Rosie McDowell (McDowell.9@nd.edu) for more information. 
Vehicles Available for Student Use 
The Center for Social Concerns provides vehicles for stu­dentS and student groups who need transportation to service sites in the South Bend Community. 
For spring 05 semester, students must complete a new request form at the esc. 
Vehicles will be available from January 17 and through April 27. 
First time vehicle users for the Fall 04-Spring 05 school year must read the CSC Policies and Procedures (http:! /centerforso­cialconcerns,nd.edu/campus_local/vehicle.shrml), then turn in a completed quiz with their initial request. 
The Center for Social Concerns will only schedule and rent vehicles for staff and students involved in student activities registered service and social action groups, academic and esc groups fostering civic engagement, and residence halls and individuals doing community volunteer service. 
Paperwork must be completed at the CSC by 7:00 p.m. the Friday before the week ofdesired use. The vehicle coordinator will confirm your request on Sunday night. 
Contacr cscvans@nd.edu for more information. 
Wednesday, January 19, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
TINA, THIS IS YOUR NEW SUPERVISOR, NELSON. YOU'LL BE TRAINING HIM TO 
BE YOUR BOSS. 

PEANUTS 
n's Tl-\1\EE o'CLOCK IN THE MORNING AND M'< STOMACH 
l-tURT5 ... 

THERE WONT BE ANY 
BONUSES THIS YEAR 
BECAUSE I GAVE IT ALL TO NELSON. HE'S A MAN, SO HE NEEDS TO SUPPORT A FAMILY. 
DO DOGS GET APPENDICITIS ? MA'<BE 11M l-\AVIN6 A HEART ATTACK .. MAYBE I1MDI{ING. Ml{ FEET ARE COLD... 
WI-lEN YOU1RE D~IN6, YOUR FEET 6ET COLD 

SCOTT ADAMS 
UM ...CIVIL UNION AND ADOPTION, RIGHT? 
I'M DATING A RUGBY TEAM. 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
I T~INK M'< BLANKET 15 TOO SliORT.. 
1/19/05 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SESMY 
j

rii I I 
<02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

PRAAK  
1 rJtOUILOR  rJ  
J (]  [J 

www.jumble.com 
I ANSAUE ± 

I rI J I 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
A ROUND Bt:LLY 
C.AN BE: THE: 
Rt:5ULT OF TOO 
MANY--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
lms: 

rI I I I I JrI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: TRUTH EXILE HEIFER PROFITYesterday's 
Answer: What inning did they pass the bottle around? ­THE "FIFTH" 
CROSSWORD 
ACflOSS 1 Touches up 6 Sound of relief 
10 High-five, e.g. 14 Place to lounge 15 Plot part 16 Hotel feature 17 "That's all !" 18 Four Freedoms 
subject 19 Spot 20 Rehearsed for a concert? 23 "What now?" 24 Hard to 
comprehend 25 Org. 28 Poe's Arthur 
Gordon 30 The scarlet letter, e.g. 34 Shooting marble 
61 Jump over ' 62 Sainted fifth-
century pope 63 Very cold 64 Put under? 65 Brewski 66 Elysian spots 
DOWN 1 Bigger than big 2 Linda of soaps 3 Doohickey 4 Men's 
accessory 5 Drink mixes 6 Medicaid, for 
one 7 Clinched 8K 9 Medal winners 
10 Like some grins 11 Maiden 12 Saint Moritz 
sight 

13 Work at 21 Wisconsin college 22 Rockies range 25 Taking one's cuts 26 French explorer La 27 Like dessert wines 29 Flat spots 
WILLSHORTZ 

32  -andrew  40 "Here  53 Walked on  
(buffoon)  (arrival words)  54 Exclusive  
33 Golfer with an army  45 Seems suspicious  55 Poker player's declaration  
35 Signs in the sky  47 Went bad  56 Scoundrels  
36 Tends to details, figuratively  49 Parting word 51 Public relations  57 F.B.I. target, with "the"  
39 It may be  cuncern  58 Grounded  
extended  52 "Eh"  Aussie  

· For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
Annual subscriptions are available tor tne best of Sunday 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mark Messier, 44: Kevin Costner, SO; Bobby Goldsboro, 64; Jesse L. Martin, 36 
Happy Birthday: You will find a way to do whatever it is you want this year. You will have the willpower and drive to tum your ideas into something concrete. This is the year to move forward, to stop thinking and start doing. You will get the support you need from the people who count if you ask for assistance. As long as you stick to your game plan and work toward more-for-less, you'll do just fine. Your numbers are 17. 26. 29, 33, 41, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You can really get ahead today if you buckle down and do what you know and do best. The wind is at your back. and your energy is bountiful. Take pride in what you can accomplish today. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): There will be no stopping you today. and everyone will want a piece of you. Your knowledge. great ideas and savvy way of presenting what you've got will win favors and result in praise. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Fix up your home or consider making a move. You need a change, and by doing something to make your surroundings more comfortable or colorful. you will find yourself in a better space. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make a promise to help out a group you believe in. The more you do for others the greater respect you will earn. A partnership will fonn that will influence and help your future. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Everything should be about work, money and getting ahead. Give some thought to doing something you enjoy and that will lead to a prosperous and interesting future. Sell your ideas. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a moment and consider what you can do to improve your looks, your vocation or your attitude. You need a pick-me-up, and now is as good a time as any. Positive actions bring good results. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): If your surroundings aren't up to par, you may find 
yourself getting depressed. Do what you can to improve your home base or to brighten up your workspace. It will make a difference. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll be in demand today whether it's personal or business. Everyone will want to talk or spend time with you. Have your answers ready; don't be a martyr and you will gain respect. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be questioning your choices. Give yourself a chance to develop what you feel will work for you. Someone you respect will give you great advice and a helping hand. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Love, romance, playful banter, games of competition and following your own path should be your quest today. You must make time to pamper yourself; it's long overdue. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may have to keep matters to yourself today. A legal or financial problem may escalate if you are too open about your position. A partner will cause a problem for you. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Learning or gathering up information will lead 
l 

to an excellent decision as well as a connection to someone who will help you in the future. Talk, travel and meet new people. **** 
Birthday Baby: You have a clear picture of what you want to accomplish, and you always stick to your game plan. You are solid, stable and in search of security. You are industrious, skilled and very concise. 
-1 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. l 
l 
~ 
l 
35 Like most urban land 
37 Canadian physician Sir William 
38 Performed 'in a concert? 41 Follow (sleuth)­42 "Soap" family 43 Uris hero 44 Arcade game 46 F.I.C.A. funds it 47 Eye problem 48 Commercial name suffix 50 Jazz group, often 52 Listened to a concert? 57 Bell curve figure 59 Pre-euro money 
60 Therapeutic treatment, maybe 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

winner 

--------------------------------------------··----------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in th~ Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
.' 
. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, January 19, 2004 
page 24 
ATHLETICS 
NO takes top spot in fall Directors' Cup standings 
13th and l!Jth, respeetivnly. Collegiate Directors of and women's field hockey.
For the first time in 
Now, for tho lirst time in the Athletics sponsors the eompnti­Notre Dame received 100 
Director's Cup 

the program's 12-year program's 12-year history, tion. points for the women's soccer 
J:inal Fall Slimdings

Notre Dame is No. 1 in the fall 'the Irish reached the top of team who brought home thehistory, Irish in lead standings of what is now the the final fall standings of the national championship. The 
c ....h l p . k
United States Sports Academy all-sports competition with 337 Irish also received points from ~--·PQ .._QH'h.~ Division I Diroetors' Cup com­points, just four ahead of sec­a fourth-place finish in 
By HFATHER 1. Notre Dame 337
petition. ond place Michigan, who women's cross country, an 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
"!When I interviewed for the earned points with a quarterfi­11 th-plaee finish in men's 
Spnns Editor 2. Michigan 333
jobl we dearly thought we had nal finish in women's l'ield cross country and second the ability to bn within the top­hockey. Stanford, who is the round appearances in the 
3. Stdnford 332 
Whnn athlntie dirnetor Kevin f'ive," White said. "So that defending champion is third NCAA Tournament by both vol­White~ c·.amn to Notrn Dame five boeame an objective, and as l with 332 points. With 327 leyball and men's soccer. 4. Duk(~ 327 yoars ago, hn know Notre remember that Notre Dame points, Duke ranks right White credits University Damn rwnded to improvo its moment in my intorview, that behind the Cardinal, who took President Father Edward 5. UCI A 297 23rd plaen finish in what was has continund to ring true and home the national champi­Malloy for emphasizing the 
tlwn tlw Soars Dirnetors' Cup. loudly for my almost fivo years onship in vollnyball. Duke had importance of the Directors' ~UJ\'t•' N~~ion••· .'\·.ooo•·i.lth.• ~, ni G~k·,.:i.~h:l)lt\X"l')~ o« 1\thlrlk•,
Ove~r tho past four yoars, Notre horn." runner-up finishes this fall in 
MIKE HARKINSIObsarvFir Graphic 

Damn has finishnd II th, 13th. The National Association of both women's cross country see CUP/page 22 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
From downtown 
opponent. 
"It'll be interesting prepa­ration," Brey said. "It'll be like playing ourselves." 
West Virginia f 11-:~.1-2 Big East), which began its season with 10 straight wins, averages over 70 points and 25 three-point attempts per game. Notre Dame (11-3, 3-1) averages over 67 points and 21 three­point shots per game. 
For Brey and the Notre Dame players, preparing for the Mountaineers will be like looking into a mirror. 
"We're a team that uses the 3-point line to our advantage, so we've got to ride the line," Broy said. "We rode the line Monday !against Syraeusnl. lbutl it 
see WVU/page 21 

Irish hope to continue winning ways 
No. 10/11 Notre Dame tries to continue-11wmentum after win 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Wri!t"r 
J\f't.nr losing two straight con­foro nee games, tho Notre l>amo team that wont 13-1 to start tlw snason rnappoare~d Sunday whnn tho No. 10/11 Irish smokPd No. 20 Purdun Xh-h1J at t.hn .Joyce CPntor. 
Now tho Irish hope to keep tho momontum going in a road contest against Big East foe Syracuse. 
Tho Irish (14-3, 2-2 Big East) travel to Syracuse to battle the Orange l'or a 7 p.m. tip-off inside tho Carrinr Dome tonight. Syracuse (10-5, 2-2) looks to avnnge a .Jan. 5 loss to tho Irish, who posted a 75-58 win at the Joyce Center. In that gamn, Irish coach Muffet McGraw was not pleased with hHr team's performance, 
see ORANGE/page 20 

TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer 

Tulyah Gaines and the Irish take on Syracuse tonight. 
HOCKEY 
Huskies power way to 6-2 win 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 

Sports Writer 
The Irish were hoping for offense in Tuesday night's matchup against Michigan Tech. They didn't expect it to come from their opponnnt, however, as the Iluskies convnrted throe power plays to goals and pullnd away Jato to a (>-2 win over the Irish. 
Notre Dame had trouble on the penalty kill this weekend against the Buckeyes, and that problem did not corrnet itself Tuesday. 
The lluskies, ranked a surpris­ing No. H in the nation on the pownr play, scored threw pownr play goals in five ehaneos to really make tho dill'ernnce in the game. 
Despite an early lluskios scorn from Clay Wilson 3:56 into the game, the Irish hung with Michigan Tech for the lirst peri­od. 
The Irish evened thn scorn at 

17:21 in tho f'irst period when dnfnnsenHtn l.ukn l.ucyk found Chris Trick through the crnasn for a scow. 
The second period starl1HI oiT with tho II usk ins and the Irish trading goals. 
Michigan Tech's Colin Murphy found a widn-opnn Chris Conner in front ol' the rwt. Connnr was abln to shoot past Irish goalie Morgan C1~y for tho lead at 2:3:\ in thn sncond. 
Tlw Irish carne hae~k just :H 
see ICERS/page 22 


RICK FRIEDMAN!The Observer Torln Francis boxes out Craig Forth of Syracuse Jan. 10. The Irish play at West Vlrgnia in conference play tonight. 
• 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish, Moutaineers prepare to let it fly 
By PAT LEONARD 
Associate Sports Editor 
Without knowing at tlw time, Notre Dame was prac­ticing early for West Virginia in its one-point win over St. .John's Saturday. 
The Irish and Hed Storm combined l'or 47 3-point attempts, but 34 of thoso attempts belonged to the never-gun-shy Notre Dame long-distance shooters. As the Irish travel to Morgantown for a 7 p.m. game with the Mountaineers tonight, eoaeh Mike Brey knows his team already has a solid understanding of its 

U) LLI1;: (.) z ~ C) = c:c a. ~  SMC BASKETBALL Kalamazoo at Saint Mary's 7:30 p.m., tonight The Belies hope to jump back into fourth place of the MIAA against the Hornets.  NFL Steelers head coach Bill Cowher hopes to win his first Super Bowl this season.  BIG EAST BASKETBALl St. John's 65, No. 21 Pittsburgh 62 The Red Storm upset the Panthers at Madison Square Garden Tuesday night.  NHL League officials meet in Chicago today for one last-ditch effort to save the season.  AUSTRAILIAN OPEN Andy Roddick and Lleyton Hewitt advance to the second round of the Austrailian Open.  NCAA BASKETBALL Florida State 91, No.3 Wake Forest 83 OT Led by Todd Galloway, the Seminoles defeated the Demon Deacons in overtime.  
U)  page 21  page 20  page 18  page 16  page 15  page 14  
...  ....  






