
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Bus to Sports Page is not affiliated with ND 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Wrirer 
Monday night's Couneil of Hepresentatives meeting ((mturod the announcPnHmt of a new wep,kend transportation service for students going to ol'l'-campus locations and discussion regard­ing the search liw thA University's now provost. 
Chief executive assistant and student body presidont-elect Davo Baron announ1:ed to representa­tives the creation of a new bus 
-
Provost search, off-campus shuttle discussed 
servico l'unded by tho Sports Pago Lounge, a bar in Granger. The bus will run Wednesdays through Saturdays from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m., Baron said, making six stops in its 45-minute route and picking up and dropping of!' passengers at Castle Point, Colloge Park and Turtle Creek apartments, Library Circle and Sports Page. 
Tho bus is schodulnd to begin operating this Thursday beginning at 10 p.m. 
"This is something students need to take advantage or and approdate," Baron said. 
All students who board tho bus will have to swipe an J.D. to provo 
see COR/page 4 

-~~--=--=---=---=~=---~=================================================== 
Prospective RAs face challenges 
Students strive to make dorm impact 
By .JUUE BENDER 
News Writer 
J.:arh ymu· as tho time comes to start making plans !'or next year's living arrangements. juniors arn lhn~d with tlu~ qw~stion of wlmtlwr to stay on or movn oil' rampus. For many. tho fun~ or oll~nunpus living is enticing. But. whiln a spacious apartnwnt or house shared with dosn l'riPmls, f'rnn l'nnn thn watch­ful oyo or tho UniV!WSity, certainly has its appnal, sonw studonl<> liml rompPIIPd to go a dilli~n~nt routn. 
Wlwtlwr its tho imprnssion a C:Prtain rn~shman ynar rosidnnt assistant mado, tho dosiro to impwt pooplo's livns or simply the lovn ol' a dorm community, b<~ing an HA is a uniquo and mnaningl'ul chalhmgc~ that a small porn~ntage or studnnts pursue their senior 
see RA/page 6 



Application process rigorous at SMC 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Assistam News Editor 
Saint Mary's students hoping to become rnsidence advisors are in the midst of an extensive application process that includos a written application and multiple interviews. 
After attending informa­tional mnetings in December, intnrested stu­dents submitted applica­tions by Jan. 27. They then underwent a group setting interview in early February where the applicants worn divided into small groups ovorseen by returning llAs and hall directors. They were presnnted with differ­ent creative scenarios and 
see SMC/page G 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Businesses reap JPW profits 
Hotels, res tau rants, venues cater to parents 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
The paronts that dns!~ondod upon South Bond last wnPknnd not only cnmi!~d lasting rnnrn­orins with their junior ehil drnn, but also, to tho plnasurP ol' many South Bnnd husinoss­ns, purn pnd money into thn city's nconomy in tho pr·ocoss. 
Dospitn tlw tight schnduln of <wnnts plannnd !'or tho event., tourist spots likn tho Collng1~ Football llall of Fanw ~~xpnri­en!:od an incnHtsn in visitor tral'l'ie throughout thn wonk­end. 
Katin Borrettini, diroetor ol' marknting !'or tho flail of Famn, said Junior l'arnnts W1wknnd visitor·s c.ontrihutnd to a siteeessful wenknnd. though tho crowds wnrn nowhoro noar tho numbers oxpnrioncod during a l'ootball wooknnd. 
"JPW 1:nrtainly has an impact and it's usually a good wnekond. It's a groat ~~rowd l'or us and wo always nxpPri­oneo an increase in Fnbruary traf'lie," sho said. 
Tlw llall of Farnn hostod a privatn party Saturday night for about 450 juniors and thoir parnnts, tho largest party tho museum has 1w1~r hosted !'or JPW, ac.1~ording to Bnrrottini. 
!loping to lure sl.udnnts and parents to stop by in betwoml the sehnduled ovnnts on eam­pus, tho llall ol' Famn inereased its advortising and oiTorod ineontivos. 
see .JPW/pagc 4 

Alutnni Association recognizes distinguished students 
Senior Danny Richter receives prestigious award for service, academic achievement 
By KATIE SCARLETT O'HARA 
N<·wsWriwr 
Danny Hkhtnr got a birthday party undnr tim domn yostor­day wlwn a n~cnption was held to honor him as this year's /\lumni Assoeiation's I>istinguishnd Und1~rgraduatn Stwll'n t of thn Ynar. 
"This is tlw biggnst !birthday presnntl hn ever got," said HirhtPr's nrothnr. Maria Huss, who hoardnd a rnd-nye l'light from Calil'ornia to at.tond tho rncnption and e1dobrate Hirhtor's birthday. "I arn pleasnd hut not totally sur­prism!." 
Tho award, giv1m oach year sineo 1982. is "conforrAd on a senior student who has distin­guished himsolf or hersolf in sorvkn to Notrn Dame, serviee to the community, or aeadnmie standing," according to the fly­ers distributed by the /\lumni Association at tho banquot. 
Thn schnduling of the recep­tion on Hichtor's birthday was eoincidontal. 
"This is icing on thn cake," said Hiehtnr, an environmental goo-seionco major. "I could've loft without this award and got­ton so much out or my !'our years. But this is l'antastic. It shows I am doing something that's being appreciated, noticed Iand shows) this is what Notro Dame hopos people arn doing." 
Hichtor is a resident assistant in Keough llall who has been involved in numerous sorvico opportunities sueh as the Urban Plunge, Circle K, the Appalachia Program and work in llaiti. Keough rector Father l'nter Jarrnt said hn thought it was this involvnment that helped him earn the award. 
"lie has tho sense of making the most of one's time at Notre Damn," .Jarrett said. "Lectums, research, eoneflrts, service ... 
'\ 

he takes advantage of these every day." 
While reading the program outlining Hichtor's achieve­ments and awards, which include candidacy for thn Marshall and Hhodns Scholarships, freshman Brendan Hyan, a follow Keough residont, said hn was in awe or his HA. 
"I'll havo to move out of his section," Hyan said. "I am not worthy." 
Hyan, along with several of his section matns. showed up in the rotunda to support Hiehtor. 
"I know if I got an award, Danny would come see me," 
Hyan said. "I knnw h1~ was bright but I had no idea lw was doing all this. lin is prntty hum­bin." 
Hiehtnr was nominated by a l'riend and snlndnd by a com­mitten. Thorn worn TH'arly 50 nominations, said Chuek Lnnnon, nxneutivn diroctor of tho /\lu m n i Assodation. 
"Tfwre arP lots ol' grnat stu­dents out thorn," said .Jarrnt. "Tin is dnsnrving, lbutl hn may not be singularly dosnrving. llownvnr, hn roprnsnnts tlw many studnnts whosn four ynars arn marked by dndication 
see AWARDS/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 22, 2005 

INSIDE COLUMN 
True life: I' In 
a transfer student 

While walking with a few friends today, I spotted my first wave of "Domer hopefuls" shufiling across campus behind a vibrant tour guide. After they passed, I joked, "Ha ha, seven out of ten of you guys aren't gettin' Michael Landsberg in here!" I thought I was being funny until my 
Controller

friend countered by 
saying, "Hey, you 
were one ofthose 
seven last year, Mike!" Oh, how true it 
is, yet how easy it is to forget. Not. 
Now, I often wonder how a strapping 

young Catholic lad like myself was not 
able to obtain entrance into an institu­
tion such as Notre Dame. Could it be 
because I would have perhaps the lowest 
ACT/SAT scores (these scores will not be 
disclosed) of anyone on campus? Or 
maybe it is because I was destined to 
flunk my first college exam ever (which 
is exactly what I did at U ofM-Ann 
Arbor last year; a 33 percent in 
Economics to be exact). I do not under­
stand; I speak "real good" and use words 
like "pontifical" and "propensity" (which, 
by the way, I am almost through the "P" 
section of the dictionary). I mean, your 
answer is as good as mine, but I still con­
tend that I was robbed. 
Although rfelt I was more than quali­

fied to go here -being both a legacy 
child and having a si.•;ter attend as well 
-I eventually starting entertaining sug­
gestions on why I was denied entrance to 
Notre Dame in the first place. Say what 
you will about stupid errors, but what 
kind ofhighly selective university is 
going to accept a guy who checked off 
"female" on his application to Michigan 
State University (where, coincidentally, I 
was accepted as Michelle Donald 
Landsberg). One may perceive that as 
an indication of character and intellectu­
al propensity (big word), but I merely 
chalked that off as a minor technicality 
and a petty oversight. 
Obviously, I somehow got in after a 

solid year at the University of Michigan, 
but that is not where my saga ends. Just 
for good measure -so as to remind me 
of my humble beginnings -I was very 
much chagrined when I was denied on­
campus housing before school started. 
But, of course, everything happens for a 
reason; I had the most spectacular time 
living in the alley in TC. I was granted 
on-campus housing, though, this semes­
ter and I live in Keough (#321 to be exact 
... ladies). My apologies for the tangent; 
it is just that I don't know any girls -because no one wants to be associated 
with a transfer guy. 
With all that aside, I wanted to con­

clude with some redeeming assurances 
that I, along with other transfers, should 
take solace in. First of all, be proud of 
your academic heritage. Besides, who 
else can come home from getting a "D" 
on an exam and say, "Well, ifa 'C' is 
average for Notre Dame students, a 'D' 
must be average for a kid like me! Yah!" 
Lastly, just remember that we actually 
survived our first year of college and we 
also know twice as many kids now! 
Wow do we rock on TheFacebook! 
The views expressed in the Inside 

Column are t'hose of the author and 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Michael Landsberg at 

mlandsbe@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE MEMORY OF AN RA? 






Vince Cano  James Miller- Katie Easterly  Kachi Okoronkwo  Donny Hanjaya  Colin Macasieb  
freshman Morrissey  Marquez freshman St. Edward's  junior Breen-Phillips  junior Walsh  Putra sophomore Fisher  sophomore Siegfried  
"He helped  "She's the one  "Freshman  "When he  
resolve some  "Finding out  who introduced  year, myRA  "Waking up  helped me  
conflict between  that myRA's  me to my cur- engagement."  because his  avoid getting  
my roommate  last name is  rent roommate  alarm goes offin  ResLife."  
and I."  Truelove. "  and best friend,  the other room.  
Moira."  We called him  
the Resident  

Woman grows ill after eating marijuana-seasoned chicken 
PRAGUE-A 51-year-old woman has been hospital­ized in the Czech Republic after ~ating a chicken her son seasoned with marijua­na, the news agency CTK reported Monday. 
The news agency said the woman from Ostrava, 218 miles east of Prague, was aware of the unusual sea­soning, but fell ill after eat­ing the dinner last week and had to be rushed to the hos­pital. 
Her 20-year-old son has been charged with illegal possession and production of 
TUESDAY 



Fla., said the ad is a joke but he really doesn't like Holbrook. 
''I'm not trying to stand up and be the voice of the peo­ple. This is just a little gag between my friend and I. It just got big," said Rosman, who uses the identification "thatsmrbuckeye" on eBay. 
Rosman, an international studies major, said in the ad that Holbrook ignores every­day crime at Ohio State, supervised two tuition increases and is responsible for hideous construction "as far as the eye can see." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

drugs and faces up to five years in prison ifconvicted. 
Student puts school president on eBay 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -An Ohio State University student has put school president Karen Holbrook on the online auction site eBay, say­ing in the ad that she will ruin the undergraduate experience. 
Bidding started at a penny on Saturday and the seven­day auction had 64 bids from 19 bidders topping out at almost $100 million Monday morning. 
Timothy Rosman, a soph­omore from St. Augustine, 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
..... 
<C 
(,) 

0 
HIGH 32
.... 
LOW 28 


24 19 


30 13 

30 18 

Alarm." 
IN BRIEF 
A performance of "The Laramie Project" will take place tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The show, per­formed by the department of film, television and theatre students, is running until Mar. 3. 
Charles Olk of the General Motors Research and Development Center will con­duct a seminar on adapting combinatorial methodology to the search for hydrogen stor­age materials at 3:30 p.m. today in 356A Fitzpatrick Hall. The event is sponsored by the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering.
.. 
A blood drive will be held in Rolfs Sports Recreation Center from 9 a.m. to 3:30 
p.m. on Wednesday and Thursday. To sign up for a convenient time, call RecSports at 631-6100. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band II and Jazz Combo will be performing at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. The event is free and spon­sored by the Student Union Board. 
Karen Richman will give the lecture "Haitian Vodou: Arts, Culture and Religion" at 3 
p.m. Friday in the Snite Museum of Art. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

31 19 

HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 68 I 48 Boston 36 I 28 Chicago 35 I 21 Denver 37 I 17 Houston 76 I 57 Los Angeles 58 I 48 Minneapolis 25 17 New York 40 I 32 Philadelphia 44 I 31 Phoenix 64 I 48 Seattle 54 I 34 St. Louis 45 I 31 Tampa 78 1 60 Washington 54 1 32 
I' 
Tuesday, February 22, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Group to co-sponsor SMC Tostal 
Tsunami relief campaign on track to reach goal 
1\y KELLY BALE New' Writer 
Saint Mary's Board 'or Covnrnance nwt Monday night to approve a SMC Tostal eo­sponsorship and to update hoard mmnbers on tlw status or llw board's tsunami mlief campaign. 
Studnnt Activities Board nw m bn rs Shay 
would be willing to give. They said they hope to soon know the amount o!' money available so that events and items ean be booked in advance. 
Lubbers said that the SMC Tostal planning committee booked the band Soul Fire and also plans to have a comedian perform. Other SMC Tostal events include movies that will be shown in the new tlwatre of 
the student cen­
.lolly and Donna ter, inflatables
"This will be a cool
l.uhhnrs prnsnnt­that will bA set ed a plan for co­day. it's going to be up outside s po nso rs hip to across the cam­
all about Saint 

Boc;, whieh they pus and a fire­
Mary's."

said would aid in works display. covnring the cost "We're trying 0 r tlw a n n u a l Donna Lubbers to keep it really SMC: Tostal. focused on the
Student Activities 

This year, SMC students,"
Board member

Tostal willlw lwld Thursday. April 
21. coinciding with the dedica­tion of tho new studnnt cont11r, tlw Nohl11 Family Dining flail and AlumrHw Grnm1. 
.lolly and Lubbers explained that with tlwse addnd ovents, SMC: Tostal will bn a bigger «wnnl than in previous ynars. 
"With this kind of «wont, wn have a lot of' alumnan coming in," l.uhbnrs said. "Wn'rn try­ing to do sonwthing biggor and lwttnr and morn prnstigious than tlw pasl." 
.lolly and l.uhb11rs asknd for any amount of monPy that BOG 
Lubbers said. 
"This will be a cool day, it's going to be all about Saint Mary's." 
Although members expressed concnrn that the board's eo-sponsorship line account was running low and that otlwr groups would be also be applying for funds from this account, BOG voted to approv11 thn SMC Tostal co­sponsorship. 
"I think this is by far the 1wnnt that will rnaeh the most students," BOG executive treasurer Molly Welton said. 
After the third week of its 
"Love Makes tho World Go Hound, Show Your Love" tsunami relief campaign, BOG members said they are well on their way to achieving their goal of $1 per student, or $1,341. BOG collected $493.90 this weAk, bringing collection totals so far to $1 ,042.30. 
"I think we're going to more than break our goal, which is exciting," Welton said. 
BOG will continue its cam­paign until the end of February. Collection containers will remain at several locations on the Saint Mary's campus and will also appear at BOG­sponsored events. BOG will hold a final nighttime door-to­door collection on Feb. 27. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
BOG applications are avail­able at the I laggar Front Desk and are due by noon Feb. 25. 

+ 
Student Diversity Board will hold a discussion tonight on the film "Brown Eyed Blue Eyed" at 7 p.m. in the Haggar Parlor. It is not necessary to have seen the movie to partiei­pate in the discussion. 


+The Freshman Class Board is currently selling Class of 200R sweatshirts. Contact a freshman board member for further information. 
Contact Kelly Bale at kbaleO 1 @saintmacys.edu 
Professor exatnines DaVinci Code issues 
By ERICA RANGEL 
News Writer 
Both popular and controversial, Dan Brown's "The DaVinei Cod1~" was the subject of Saint Mary's humanistic studies professor .John Shinner's lecture Monday, entitled "The Da Vinci Code: Cnu~ked or Crackpot'?" 
Shinners focused on the poten­tial inaecurades contained within the book while also examining the 99-week New York Times best­seller's popularity. 
Junior art history major Talia Matury-Vaearo said the lecture mused her to reconsider the book. 
"I think the way it is portrayed is really convincing, but tlmre's been so much hype about it being not true, one begins to question the validity of Dan Brown's claims," Matury-Vaearo said. 
Shinners said he thought Dan Brown was practicing immoral history by "turning am~ient li!,'l.Jros into who he wants them to be instead of who they rnally are." 
"Brown has no respect lilr histo­ry," Shinners said. "It's a great injustice to treat these ligures as puppel<;." 
Shinners pointed out that tho book's fallacies start on tho aeknowlndgmnent page. This page dearly states that all depictions of artwork and places am indeed litc­tual. By showing slides of tho actu­al paintings and locations that did not match up to what Brown wrote in tiH1 book, Shinners demonstrated that Brown did not stay trun to his word. 
Shinners said he thought Brown's suspenseful writing style was the primary reason for tho book's popularity, 
"Dan Brown is so dovor eroating situations that take our bmath away. Tho chapters aw short and ollen 1mdnd in diiThangers. urging you to knnp reading," Shinners said. 
Other roasons for tho book's popularity, ac:mrding to Shinners. indudo tho historical and exciting settings, thn misuse of l'aets, the conspiracies about roligion and history and the "tap into the znit­gnist," nspoeially thn mistrust of the Catholic hierarchy. 
Shinners also discussed some eommon questions raisnd by thn book. such as .Jnsus' marital status and the possibility of Mary Magdaleno's presmH~n at tho Last Supper. 
In answering tho question of .Jesus' marital status, Shinners said that if' .Jesus was indeed mar­ried, it would have boon doeu­ment.nd at one point in time. but it is not. 
H«~garding the Mary Magdehme debate, Shinnors discussed Leonardo's androgynous styles of humans, which nxplainnd why .John appoars to look remain in The Last Suppor. According to Shinners, it lilllows that the Iloly (;rail is nothing morn tlwn a cup and is not Mary Magdalmm. 
Contact Erica Rangel at rang4716@saintmarys.edu 



Candler School of Theology Emory University 
Brian Mahan, a Catholic layperson, is assistant professor of Christian educa­tion at Candler School of Theology. His publication Forgetting Ourselves on Pur­pose, Vocation and the Ethics of Ambi­tion provides "moral companionship" to 
Thursday, February 24, 2005 
those who are interested in serious soul­
GIOVANINI COMMONS C 
searching. It considers the question of 
(Main Level, Mendoza College of Business)
how it is possible to create a meaningful spiritual life while living in a culture that 
3:30pm-5:00pm
measures us by what we have rather than who we are. 
Seating is limited. Attendance by reservation only. For reservations, email jcalder2@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 22, 2005 
COR 
continued from page l 
they are 21, and no underage students will be allowed on the bus, Baron said. 
"This service is most important for seniors and off-campus stu­dents," student body president Adam Istvan said. 
Istvan's administration present­ed a proposal to the Board of Trustees last fall seeking to estab­lish a University-funded SafeBus that would transport students to and from off-campus locations. Istvan elarified that the Sports Page's shuttle service is not a ful­fillment of the SafeBus proposal. Though he remains in full support of the service, he emphasized that it is in no way connected to the University or to Student Government. 
The new service was announced in COR after Sports Page asked Istvan to spread the word to the student body. 
"They asked us to let students know about this. And if they're willing to improve student life, then I'm willing to mention it in our meeting," Istvan said. 
Senior Jeremy Staley attended the meeting to tell representatives about his membership on a com­mittee that will play a key role in hiring the new provost for the University. 
"I will be sitting on the search committee to choose the new provost. My job is to help with the student side of the search," Staley said. 
The selection committee, made up of five faculty members and one student. will research candidates and then present a recommenda­tion to University President-elect Father John Jenkins. who will assume the presidency July 1. Jenkins will then present his own recommendation to the Board of Trustees. which will then make the linal decision. 

Staley clarified the role and responsibilities of the provost to representatives and asked for their feedback regarding key qualities of a strong provost candidate. 
Senior elass president Darrell Scott asked that Staley seek out a candidate with experience at the international level. 
"I recommend someone with international experience and Washington connections. while still being Catholic. That would be a great addition," Scott said. 
Baron called for a provost who would make diversity a top priority in the academic environment at Notre Dame. 
"A big focus for my campaign has been the issue of diversity. And that is something that is very important to academics. His pow­ers need to be looked at through the diversity respective," Baron said. 
Istvan asked that Staley encour­age the search committee to seek out minorities and women and encourage them to apply for the position. 
"Notre Dame isn't exactly the first place a minority or female would apply to work. So the com­mittee needs to put forth energy to attract women and minorities because they might be the best for the job," Istvan said. 
Staley plans to attend other stu­dent government meetings to gath­er further student input concern­ing the matter. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
"The water heater situa­tion dramatically impacted
JPW 
our business. Financially, we continued from page 1 
did not make as much money as we anticipated," "We specifically target the Arthur said. 
parents coming in as well as General 
the kids. We run ads in The 
Observer  and  
put fliers  and  
coupons  in  

hotels where the parents are staying," Berrettini said. 
Unlike restau­rants and tourist destina­tions that lured in customers with these advertising tac­
"We specifically target the parents coming in as well as the kids. , 
Katie Berrettini director of marketing College Football Hall of Fame 
tics, local hotels like the lnn at Saint Mary's were able to increase hotel rates by as much as 15 percent and still reach maximum occupancy. 
Jeff Arthur. general man­ager of the Inn at Saint Mary's, said the hotel was booked six months in advance for JPW. But due to unexpected water heater complications, the company was not able to reach the sales it had been expecting. 
Since hot water was not available for certain hours during the weekend, some Saint Mary's Inn guests sought accommodations elsewhere, Arthur said. Guests that chose to stay were given refunds. 
managers at Panora Bread and Houlihans said that they did not notice any significant increase in customer vol­ume, though they did not 
anticipate  it  
either.  
"I  added  a  

few more work people for the weekend, but as far as 
adjusting what we make food wise, we didn't make any changes," 
ness doubled during the weekend at locations such as the cafe at Hammes Bookstore. Reekers and Subway experienced approximately a 10 percent increase in sales as well, Prentkowski said. 
Legends was also a popu­lar destination with the JPW crowd. 
"Anytime there is a major event on campus we have more people in general proximity and it's conven­ient for people to come Ito Legends!. It's an available option and a great location," Prentkowski said. 
As expected, many visitors flooded the bookstore. Sally Wiatrowski, director of retail operations at the bookstore, said there were long Jines to order and pick 
up class rings 
Panora gener­al manager Brian Hall  "The water heater situation  during the weekend. Wiatrowski  
said.  dramatically  said  that  
Though off­campus restaurants  impacted our business.,,  working her first JPW was highly enjoy- 
reported little  able.  
change in cus­ Jeff Arthur  "It  was  a  
tomer volume, dining spots located within  general manager Inn at Saint Mary's  really, really fun weekend," she said. "It  
walking  dis- was  nice  to  

tance of JPW events experi­have customers in great enced significant sales moods and good spirits and increases. enjoying the festivities." 
Dave Prentkowski, direc­tor of food services for the Contact Mary Kate Malone at University, said that busi-mmalone3@nd.edu 

The Nanovic Institute for European Studies offers the following Grants and Fellowship for 2005-2006 
OEAOLINE: MARCH 18J ZOOS 
1. Research ana Travel Grants to Europe for Unc:lergrac:luate Students up to $4JOOO. 
Z. Research ana Travel Grants to Europe for Graduate Students up to $5JOOO. 
3. Paul G. Tobin Graduate Fellowship of$15JOOO. 


For more information., call 1-5253_, or go to www.na.eau(-nanovic 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 22, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
500 Palestinian prisoners released 
.JI•:HUSi\I.I•:M -Palnstinians gave a jubilant wPkonw to !iOO prisonnrs f'rnml Monday by lsranl as part of' a lrucn, hut many eomplainnd that uprising IPadnrs wnrn not among those rnh~asnd. llamas militants appeared unmaskod in a Wnst Bank city, tlwir loader shouting that l.lwrn '~an tw no pnan~ "as long as thoro is a singln prisorwr in Israeli jails." 
Suhail i\hu Madala, 3!i, spnnt four years in prison and had Um~n mom years to serve when hP was sd f'rnn Monday. 
"I ntnnot bnlinvn that I'm smelling the air of' lh~ndom. that I will son my family," he said, rhoking hark toars aflnr !wing rnunitml with hrollwrs and sistnrs and his 12-yoar-old son, Mohammnd, in llw Wnst Bank city of' Nablus. "Nothing can <Inscribe~ my joy and my f'r1elings." 
Tim dndsion to relnasn t.hn prisonnrs led to rritirism by somn lsranlis that the move could rn-igniln t.lw bloodshnd that has besot tho nlgion for mon• than four years. 
Lebanese hold anti-Syria protests 
Bl·:l HUT, l.nhanon -Tons of' thousands man:lwd Monday in tlw biggest anti-Syrian prot.nst. in l.nbarwsn history amid signals that Syria will soon withdraw its troops from parts of' thn country. Prnsidnnt. Bush rnnnwnd demands for Syrian li11Tns to lnaw l.nbanon imnwdiatnly. 
The• prole~sl marknd onn wonk sinco tho Feb. 14 dnalh of' Halik llariri and bngan at l.lw bomb­searrPd silo of' llw f'ornwr prime minister's assassination, whirh lurnnd many Lebanese against Syria and inernasnd inlelrnational prns­surn on Damascus to nxlrael its army from l.nbanon. 
Holding aloft rnd rosos and l.nbanose nags, thn throngs on tlw strnol'i shoutod insults at the pro-Syrian gowrnnumt. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Bush's private recordings released 
Wi\SIIIN<;TON -Pmsident Bush was con­cornnd "his mistakns as a youth" would dis­qualify him from running for thtl nation's high­nsf. oiTicn. said an old friend who seerntly n~eordml private~ conversations in whieh Bush appears to acknowlndge past drug use. 
"I don't want any kid doing what I tried to do :w y1mrs ago," Bush said in recordings made wlwn lw was govnrnor of Texas and aired Monday on i\BC's "(;ood Morning i\mnriea." "i\nd I mnan that. It doesn't rnattor if it's LSD, coeairw, pol, any of thoso things, bneause if I answnr orw, t.h'm thorn will bn another one. i\nd I just am not going to answer those ques­tions. i\nd it. may cost rnn thn election." 

HunterS. Thompson commits suicide 
I>I•:Nvlm-lluntor S. Thompson, tho aenrbie count.c~rrultun~ writnr who popularizod a nnw liH·m of lklional journalism in books like "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas," fatally shot himsolf Sunday night at his A'iplm-arna homo, his son said. lin was 67. 
"lluntnr priznd his privacy and we ask that his friends and admiwrs respnet that privaey as wnll as that of his family," Juan Thompson said in a statmnent released to the Aspen Daily Nows. 
Pitkin County Shnrill' oflidals confirmed to Thn A'isoeiatnd Pwss that Thompson had died of an apparnnt snlf-inllictml gunshot wound. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Same-sex marriage ban passes 
INI>Ii\Ni\POI.IS -The Indiana Senate voted 42 to H today to approve a constitutional anwndment prohibiting same-sex marriage. 
Thn bill now movns to tho Indiana House for ronsidnralion. To become part of Indiana's eonstitution, the proposed amnndment must pass the lngislaturn both this year and again in 2007 or 200H. It must then be approved by votms statnwidn in Uw 200H nloction. 
St.at.o Snn. Brandt llnrshman, H-Monticello, told his colleagues that the amendment is nnnded. 
BELGIUM 



Bush appeals to Allies for help 
President hopes five-day tour will improve relations with European countries 
Associated Press  
!mUSSELS -President  
Bush seolded Hussia for  
backsliding on democracy  
Monday and urged Mideast  
allins to take diflicult steps  
for peace, appealing for  
Europe's help in both trou­ 
bled areas to "set history  
on a hopeful course."  
Bush opened his discus­ 
sions with a gesture of rec­ 
onciliation toward disgrun­ 
tlnd allins, hosting an ele­ 
gant dinnnr for French  
President Jacques Chirae,  
the harshest critic of the  
U.S. invasion of Iraq.  
''I'm looking for a good  
cowboy," Bush joshed  
wlwn a reporter asked if  
relations had improved to  
thn point whnrn Chirac  
might rnceivn an invitation  
to tho president's Texas  
ranch. Chirac said U.S.­ 
Freneh relations have been  
excellent for 200 years and  
tho war had not changed  
that. They dined on lobster  
risotto and lilet of beef.  
Despite tho cordial meet­ 
ing, Bush told Chirac the  
United States adamantly  
opposes Europe's plans to  
lift its 15-year arms embar­ 
go against China. U.S. President George W. Bush, right, meets with French President Jacques Chirac 
Europe seemed eager for on Monday as part of a five-day trip to boost relations with European allies. 
Bush's charm offensive  
after bitter divisions over  Previewing two issues on  West by consolidating  if his intornsts lin West,  
global climate control, Iraq  Tuesday's agenda, Bush  power, rolling back demo­ that we share valuns ... and  
and other problems.  told Syria to get out of  cratic reforms and curbing  those values are impor­ 
Dozens of world leaders  Lebanon and demanded  press and political free­ tant."  
were hurrying to Brussels  that Iran stop its suspected  doms.  In the keynote address of  
for twin summits Tuesday  nuclear weapons program."  Bush said tho United  his livo-day trip, Bush sig­ 
at Ni\TO and the European  Bush did not rule out using  States and all European  naled that the Unitnd  
Union. European officials  military force in Iran, say­ countries "should place  States will bncomo morn  
have complained Bush did  ing all options remain on  democratic reform at tho  involved in tho Mideast to  
not listen to them during  the table. But, addressing  heart of their dialogue with  foster growing hopes for  
his first term, and they  widespread concerns in  Russia." The pmsident sug­ peace.  
wanted to see if he has  Europe that Iran is the next  gested that Moscow's entry  "i\morica and Europe  
changed.  U.S. target after Iraq, Bush  in the World Trade  have made a moral com­ 
i\bout 4,000 people regis­ said: "Iran is ... different  Organization could hinge  mitment: We will not stand  
tered their unhappiness in  from Iraq. We're in the  on whether it changes  by as another gnnnration in  
a noisy protest outside tho  early stages of diplomacy."  course.  the Holy Land grows up in  
U.S. Embassy as Bush met  Three days before seeing  "I've got a good relation­ an atmosphere of violnncn  
with Chirac. The demon­ Vladimir Putin in Slovakia,  ship with Vladimir; I intend  and hopelossnnss," Bush  
strators came from a coali­ Bush admonished the  to keep it that way," Bush  told an audienen of diplo­ 
tion of 88 environmental,  Hussian leader to "renew a  told reporters during a  mats, businnss tnadnrs and  
human rights, peace and  commitment to democracy  photo opportunity with  academics in an opulent  
other groups opposed to  and the rule of law." Putin  Chirac. "But as well, I  ballroom of Brussels'  
Bush's policies.  has raised alarms in the  intend to remind him that  Concert Noble hall.  

SOUTH KOREA 


North Korea hints at return to talks 
anytime if there are mature condi­solution to the issue through dia­tions for the six-party talks thanks to logue remains unchanged," tho news 
SEOUL -North Korean leader the concerted efforts of the parties agency said. Kim Jong II told a visiting Chinese concerned in the future," Kim said KCNi\ did not elaborate on what envoy that his government will Tuesday, expressing the hope that conditions Kim cited during his talks return to six-party nuclear disarma­the United States would show "trust­with the envoy from China, whieh is ment talks if the United States shows worthy sincerity," according to the his impoverished country's only "sincerity," the communist state's Korean Central News Agency. remaining major ally. ollicial news agency said Tuesday. Kim spoke of his government's new ln Washington, State Department 
The announcement -the latest in position in over the nuclear issue in spokesman Lou Fintor said that U.S. more than two years of conflicting a meeting with Wang Jiarui, head of oflieials were "aware of the report" statements over North Korea's the Chinese Communist Party's about Kim's remarks, and the U.S. nuclear program -came less than International Department, KCNi\ position on resuming the six-party two weeks after Kim flouted said. talks is well known. Washington and its allies by claiming Kim also said that North Korea "The Unitnd States remains ready that it had nuclear weapons and "would as ever stand for the denu­to resume the six party talks at an would boycott the talks. clearization of the Korean Peninsula early date without preconditions," 
"We will go to the negotiating table and its position to seek a peaceful said Fintor. 
Associated Press 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 22, 2005 
RA 
continued from page 1 
year. 
From friend to confidante to rule enforcer, the RA plays many roles in the lives of Notre Dame stu­dents. Most students recall their HA from freshman year as the senior down the hall who seemed to have life at Notre Dame figured out, whose door was always open and who was rumored to have duLac memorized. llowever, there arc many other important aspects that go into being an HA. 
'The RA is a strong point of the community,'' said Caitlin Early, an HA in Lyons. "They are the visible signs of what Notre Dame repre­sents in each of the halls." 
Nick Green, an RA in Zahm, added that "the RA is more than a rule enforcer." 
"He should be a friend and example for his residents," Green said. "He is the one whose job is to look out for the good of everyone." 
Fulfilling the RA role is a major commitment, especially for seniors in their final year at Notre Dame. An RA must attend an intensive training period in early August involving lecture sessions, role­playing and in-hall training. Once other students arrive on campus, an RA must commit to weekly hall staff meetings and nights of being "on duty," which require staying in the dorm on call in case incidents 
arise. 
In addition to these duties, an RA plays a significant role as a dorm section leader, acting as a liaison between students and the rector. Because the RA is a stu­dent, he or she is often seen as more approachable than other authority figures on campus and becomes the figure students turn to with troubles or questions. 
"From my perspective, the RA serves a great resource and an integral part of the support system that the residence halls at Notre Dame have to offer. The RA should be an individual that residents can turn to and comfortably trust for issues of all types, concerning all aspects of life," Lyons HA Stephanie Sellinger said. 
"Additionally, the RA can serve as a great resource about the University and all it has to offer," Sellinger said. "While they are responsible for maintaining a safe and orderly environment for resi­dents, an RA's most significant role is support." 
In recognition of their commit­ment to Notre Dame's dorm com­munity, the University offers RAs a few job perks. Free room and board is the most significant bene­fit, but RAs also receive free St. Michael's Laundry service and parking. 
It's not these benefits, however, that attract most students to being an RA. Aspects of tradition and the impact of former RAs seem to be the primary factors motivating stu­dents to apply for the position. 
"I wanted to be an RA because of the example that was set before me by men like Ben Dillon, Dean Coleman and Pat McGarry -all former Zahmbies who were great RAs and great friends," said Green, "I love being an RA -I have no regrets." 
Petula Fernandes, a Lewis RA, also credits former RAs as her influence. 
"I had good experiences with my HAs from freshman and sopho­more year. Both were different people, but through them I real­ized the importance of the ministry of being an RA," she said. "Now, that I'm in the role myself, I see things from a different perspective, but I absolutely love the position." 
In addition to the responsibilities and expectations required of RAs, the application process is tedious and highly competitive. Though any junior can apply, applicants must complete a written applica­tion for the Office of Hesidence Life, submit letters of recommen­dation and go through an inter­view process. Every dorm has a slightly different method for selec­tion, but ultimately it is the current RAs who choose the candidates for the following year. 

Siegfried RA Robert Murphy explained the scope the applica­tion process can reach in certain dorms. 
"In Siegfried we do three rounds of interviews. Two are with cur­rent RAs and one is with the head staff -the AHs Iassistant rectors] and the rector," Murphy said. 
Fernandes described a similar procedure in Lewis, where appli­cants interview with RAs, assistant rectors and the rector, each of which can last up to two hours, she said. 
The number of applicants who apply each year also fuels competi­tion for the RA position. Though each dorm has a different number of RAs depending on its size, most dorms have more applicants than spots to fill. • 
"The competitiveness varies according to the dorm,'' Sellinger said. "Some dorms, like Lyons Hall, have more than two appli­cants for every spot. It can depend on a lot of factors, including the class of juniors in the particular dorm and experiences these jun­iors had as underclassmen with their former RAs. In general, how­ever, I would consider it competi­
.
tive. " 
Fernandes agreed that the process is competitive, but said she thought this was ultimately benefi­cial. 
"I feel the competition makes it exciting," she said. "With so many people applying, we can be selec­tive and choose the best possible applicants for the position." 
Even with the tough competition for the position and the stringent expectations and responsibilities required of an RA, juniors still apply in high numbers every year. 
"Even with the application process, I still wanted to apply because I really want to give underclassmen the same experi­ences I had at Notre Dame," said Katie Skirich, a Lewis junior apply­ing for an RA spot. "I had some great RAs in the past that really made a dilierence, and I'd like to pass that on." 
Anna Schmall, who is applying for RA next year in Lyons, said she thought that the competition and written application aid in the selection process. 
"Having to do the application and go through the interviews really made me think and make a conscious decision to apply for RA," Schmall said. "This is ulti­mately a good thing, because you only get the people who are truly dedicated go through with it." 
Whether it is their commitment to community living, their desire to be a role model for freshmen or numerous other reasons for want­ing to be an RA, both current RAs and applicants for next year cite their dedication to the University as a main reason for their service asanRA. 
"I personally wanted to apply because I loved the community aspect of the dorm and feel that it is an essential part of Notre Dame. I really want to give something back to the school and to the dorm in my last year here," Schmall said. 
After his experience as an RA, Murphy echoed these sentiments. 
"I would apply to be an RA again if I had the chance," Murphy said. "It's been a great ending to my four years here at Notre Dame. I feel it's a complement to senior year to be able to help out in the dorm, while at the same time being independent." 
Contact Julie Bender at jbearJer@nd.edu 
Awards 
continued from page 1 
to Notre Dame. And he is a good representative." 
The Alumni Association conferred this year's Distinguished Graduate Student Award on Shannon Gayk, a doctoral student in the Department of English. 
"I am honored and hum­bled by this award," Gayk told attendees of the recep­tion. "I have given much less to Notre Dame than it has given to me ... I am extremely grateful." 
Contact Katie Scarlett O'Hara at kohara2@nd.edu 


SMC 
continued from page 1 

"I have a lot of friends who are RAs and they always talk about what a great experi­ence it is and all of the friends 
they have made because of 
team building exercises it," Keenan said. such as developing their own While the numbers fluctuate residence hall. depending on 
Sophomore and enrollment at the first-time appli­college, there are
"The hall 

cant MacKenna roughly 40 RA
directors place 

Keenan said the positions avail­interview was not people based on able. Unlike at as intimidating as Notre Dame, first
personality, but 

she expected. year Saint Mary's
you are not

"The fgroup] students can interview went really apply to be an RA very well," Kee­guaranteed." starting their nan said. "It was sophomore year. a comfortable Keenan said atmosphere." Shannon Culbertson she is confident 
The follow-up residence advisor about her individual inter­Holy Cross Hall chances at being view, Keenan selected. said, was a little "I think I have more "intense." a good chance," said Keenan. 
Keenan decided to apply for "They said this was the an RA position after hearing [smallest] amount of appli­current RAs discuss how cants that they've ever had. I much they enjoyed the posi­don't know if that is a good tion. thing or not but I am really hoping I get it." 
Applicants request the resi­dence hall they would like to be placed in, ranking them from first choice to last choice, current Holy Cross Hall RA Shannon Culbertson said. 
Culbertson is applying to be the administrative residence advisor (ARA) in Holy Cross next year, a position that includes duties such as sched­uling RA on-call hours and front desk workers. 
"Then the hall directors place people based on person­ality," Culbertson said. "But you are not really guaran­teed." 
Culbertson and other ARA applicants will be notified this week whether or not they were selected to fill the posi­tion. Hegular RA selections will 'be announced the week following spring break. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Have you ever wanted to eat with 
Chandra Johnson Mark Poorman Father Hesburgh 
Plus many more campus celebrities 
BP Meal Auction: New Orleans Style Thursday, February 24, 2005 7-lOpm Lafortune www.nd.edu/"'bphall 


Tuesday, February 22, 2005 
---:__:__:::== 

MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
10,785.22 +30.96 
}ones~ 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1.217 126 ·~ 1,545,531,008 
AMEX  1,501.57  +3.80  
NASDAQ  2,05X.62  -2.72  
NYSE  7,287.47  +14.97  
S&PSOO  1,201.59  +0.84  
NIKKEI(Tokyo)  II ,651.02  0.00  
fTSf IOO(London) 5,060.80  +3.60  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I 00 TR (QQQQ) -0.32 -0.12 37.3S INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.65 +0.39 24.02 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0,66 -0.17 25.48 SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW) +0.24 +0.01 4.16 CISCO SYS INC (SUNW) -0.86 -0.15 17.30 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND 0.00 0.00 46.44 I 0-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 42.60 5-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 38.55 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 25.52 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0. 79 49.0 I GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.20 428.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.00 84.98 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 05.5600 EURO 0.7656 POUND 0.5273 CANADIAN$ 1.2661 
IN BRIEF 
Retail price for gas drops slightly 
C/\M/\HII.I.O, Calif'. -Hetail gas prices dropped slightly in thn last two WfHlks as oil prien hikns worn dwckml by an incrnase in the gasolinn supply, an industry analyst said Sunday. 
Tlw avnragn rntail price for all three grades droppnd half a cent to $1.1J3, betwenn Feb. 5 and Friday, said Trilby Lundberg, who publish­ns tlw snrnimonthly Lundborg Survey of 7,000 gas stations aeross tlw country. 
Thn most popular gradn, self-servo regular, was prked at $1.90 a gallon, while customers paid $2 for midgrade. Prnmium averaged $2. I 0 a gallon for the period. 
During tlw two-wPnk pnriod, crude oil prices rose almost $2 per harrol, hut gasoli1w sup­plies also grow, ol'f'solting thn pricn increase, Lundborg said. 
"This small drop in pricn donsn't herald big pricn cuts to romP," Lundbnrg said. "Morn likn­ly, gasoline pricns will coase dropping soon, unl11ss emdn oil priens fall dramatically." 
Slw said gas prices will likely rise in the future toward a pnak during the summer driv­ing months of .Junn, .July and August. 
Regulators request more information 
INIJI/\N/\I'OI.IS -Fnderal regulators have asked l'or morn information regarding .Johnson & .Johnson's planned $25.4 billion acquisition of Guidant Corp. 
Ttw companies said Friday they had expect­ed tho requnst and that they still oxpected that the Fodera! Tradn Commission would approve the dnal in time for it to be finalized hy tlw nnd of' October. 
Whnn the dnal was announcnd in December, analysts said thny expectod a tough review from regulators because Guidant and .Johnson & .Johnson subsidiary Cordis Corp. are among the few eornpanins that make heart stenls, tiny dnviens that knep artnrins propped opnn. 
No dlltails about the information sought by tho rngulators was rnlmts11d. 
Indianapolis-based Guidant, a spinoff by Eli Lilly and Co. in 1994. also makes !wart pacn­maknrs and dnlibrillators. 
.Johnson & .Johnson is to pay $76 in cash and stock for naeh share of Guidant. 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 
-------~---~-­

Economists predict slow growth 
Slow housing market and increased mortgage rates are contributing factors 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON Eeonomir. growth will slow this year but will still be sufficient to reduce the nation's unemployment rate, business economists say. 
In its latest economic outlook, the National Association for Business Economies predicts the economy -as measur-ed by gross domestic product -will expand by 3.6 per­cent this year and next. 
If the projections being rnleased today prove accu­rate, that would mark slowing from the 4.4 pnr­cent growth clocked in 2004, the strongest show­ing in l'ive years. GDP measures the value of' all goods and snrvices pro­duced within the United States and is eonsidnred the broadest barometer of the eountry's economic health. 
"Eeonomic growth in 2005 will moderato but still be solid," said Carl Tannenbaum, chief econo­mist at LaSalle Bank and head of the committee overseeing the economic forecast. 

One reason economists give for the expected mod­eration this year is the belief that a rod-hot hous­ing market will cool and based partly on the expnc­prices. Some companies, expectations well-mortgage rates will rise. tation that energy prices, not wanting to turn off anchorPd." Consumer spending and which surged last year, buyers, were reluctant to Fed policy-makers, business investment this will 'calm down. pass alcmg all of' their wanting to make sure year are expected to be Forecasters are predicting higher costs to consumers, inflation doosn't get out of' solid and to help support a barrel of crude oil will analysts explain. hand, embarked on a rate­economic growth, accord­cost around $40 at the end Federal Heservn raising eampaign in .June. ing to the outlook. of this year, compared with Chairman /\Ian Greenspan, That has resulted in six 
Forecasters anticipate $48 a barrol at the end of appearing before Congress modest quarter-point that the unemployment 2004. last week to deliver the increases, leaving a key rate -which averaged 5.5 The forecast was com­central bank's twice-a­interest rate at 2.50 per­percent last year -will piled before Friday's year economic outlook, eent. dip to 5.2 percent this year release of a government oll'ered a relatively positive That key ratn is tlxpnetod and then to 5.1 percent report that showed whole­view of thn economy and to risn to 3.5 pc1rec~nt by next year. sale prices -excluding the nation's pricing eli­the end of this year, 
On the inflation front, food and energy costs -mate. according to tlw business consumer prices arc soared in .January by tho "The evideneo broadly economists. If that worn to expected to rise 2.2 per­largest amount in more supports the view that eco­happen. tlw prinw lnnding cent this year and 2.3 per­than six years. !\ govern­nomic fundamentals havn rate. used for many short­eent next yoar. Consumer ment report on consumer steadied," Greenspan said. tnrm consumer and busi­prices for all of 2004 prices for .January will be "/\II told, the economy ness loans. would risn to increasnd 3.3 percent, the released Wednesday. seems to have entered 6.50 percent by year's end. largest rise since 2000. For all of 2004, whole­2005 expanding at a rea­The prime rate, which 
A deceleration in con­sale prices went up at a sonably good pace, with movns in lockstep with the sumer prices this year is faster pace than consumer inflation and inflation Fml's key rate, is now 5.50. 



Taxpayers may benefit from break 
caution that tax laws seem to be in every state, and ehanges state to statn
Associated Press 
constant nux. vary dramatieally," Winters said. 

WASHINGTON -Sharpen your "I wouldn't get too locked into tho To figure your deduction, you can pencils. There's a new tax break on way things are right now," said usc a table provided by the IHS or add the books, but it could take some Maryann Winters, a partner at up the sales taxes paid in 2004. Thn work to discover whether it can help Sirchia and Cuomo LLP in Syracuse, law, passPd JatP last ypar, didn't give you. N.Y. taxpayers much time to prepare. 
Thn new deduction, available in The new sales tax deduction is most Taxpayers who didn't keep their sales 2004 and 2005, lets taxpayers deduct valuable for people in states with no receipts last year ean start accumu­state sales taxes in lieu of state or very low income taxes, but it could lating thosn piles f'or 2005. incomn taxes if it helps lower their be uscl'ul to taxpayers in other stat11s. Bob Scharin, editor of' HIA's tax bills. Anyone who made major purchases Practical Tax Strategies, a journal f'or 
There's also new help for military last year, and some rntirnd taxpayers tax professionals, said taxpayers and lower income families, and sim­who pay little ineome tax, might he might review their spending and plnr tax return forms available to better off taking a sales tax dedue­think about any big-ticket itnms tlwy morn people. tion. might have purchased. sueh as thn 
Tax advisers say there aren't as Taxpayers should look long and futurn groom who purehasnd an many changes to contemplate as hard at their options beeause it's engagmnent ring or the par~mts who there have been in recent years but "very eonf'using, not f'or everybody in paid for the wndding. 
'I 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 22, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Democrats: Don't let my retirement 
P.O. Box 779, Notr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, No<re Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

savings get flushed 
Man Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Hearher Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu · 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(174) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 63!-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rl1e majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assisranr Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and colwnns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMatt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
·r he Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi~htd Mouday through Friday tX<X'pl during cx:un and va01tiun periods, A ~ubscriptinn w '11-w Ob~ervcr i~ $100 for one acaJcmk year; $SS li1r one Sl!me<ott:r. 
The Oluervcr i~ puhH~u:d at: I'OSTMAST<R 014 South Dining Hal! ~nd addr~s correcriun~ w: Nntre D>t.mc, IN 46Y56·0779 TbcObst:I'Vt'r Pcriudicalj'HI,!il3ge paid atl\urre I>:um: P.O. Box 779 ;~u,l J.ddiriun:d mililing office<.. 02.4 Snuth Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 4MS6-0n9 
TM Obr.cn•cr L' a member of 1he AMociau:d Ptt'Sll. All rcproduc1ion right.'> arc 
rer.crve~i. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Maddie Hanna Kate Gales Eileen Duffy Ken Fowler Julie Bender Tom Dorwart 
Viewpoint Scene Katherine Rowley Ram a Graphics Gottumkkala Desiree Zamora Illustrator Katie Knorr 

I've had the random thought lately, regularly accommodated by my Attention Deficit Disorder, that there are a great many things "dken for granted in everyday life. Modern plumbing and stan­
Tom Rippinger

dards of hygiene are very simple examples of this. Simple things Confessions of. from household a Campus cleaners to common Conservative household appliances are all examples of generations of innovation to the changing variables of human need. The modern toilet is the perfect example of an everyday thing that none of us could live without, which has evolved from a hole in the ground to an elaborate system of mod­ern plumbing and multimillion-dollar treatment plants. 
The same cycles can be seen in the constantly fluid medium of governmen­tal institutions. Through revolutions in philosophy over time, human beings have evolved government to meet their own needs. Apologizing in advance for my recent habit of using crude analo­gies in my columns, the evolution of governmental institutions should not be looked at any differently than the various innovations that have brought us the common and practical toilet. 
During the years of the Great Depression, a widespread problem was met with a single common solution we now know as Social Security. This plan was a noble promise that any American that invested the best years of his life in his career would be ensured a stable retirement. Unfortunately, the program as it is seems unsustainable in the near future due to the simple problem of demo­graphics. A Jan. 13 editorial in the Wall Street Journal clarifies this point, which has been made by many advo­cates of partial privatization. "The truth is that AARP might be able to ignore, but it can't repeal, the laws of demographics," The editorial read. "And there is simply no way the cur­rent pay-as-you-go retirement system, with two workers supporting each retiree in 2030, is not going to require a crushing tax burden compared with a system that had 16 workers per retiree in 1950 and 3.3 today." 
As has been with the case of many inventions, the needs have begun to outweigh the original design. The fun­damental problem with Medicare and Social Security has become the classic one of "bait and switch." Democrats promise the world with these pro­grams, but they are still operating on a basic pay-as-you-go system model. The success of this system operates on a simple assumption that more money will be coming in than going out. A combination of false political promises and the mentioned demographical con­straints make this an exercise in futility without benefit cuts or tax hikes. 
Just how bad is the broader prob­lem? "National Center for Policy Analysis" Brief No. 490 laid out this phenomenon quite clearly. As a result of lower birthrates and longer lifespan, the fundamental problem will only seem to get worse. If politicians decide to try and preserve the status quo of these programs, they will increasingly need to borrow funds from the federal income tax, as Medicare had to do in 2004. In 2004, that number is only 3.6 percent of total income taxes. However, in 1 0-year increments beginning in 2020, the numbers become 52.7, 66.4 and 76.1 percent of federal spending. 
I recommend that anybody who wish­es to gain an accurate understanding of private accounts should read Peter Ferrara's "A Progressive Plan for Social Security," available online at the Institute for Policy Innovation Web site. It is our generation that should be doing the research on this and becom­ing active in the public policy debate. Having had almost constant part-time jobs since I was 16, I want to keep tabs on exactly how the government is han­dling that little chunk of my paychecks it has been taking out in the FICA col­umn of the taxes. 
Without bullying through an uncom­promising plan, Republicans should offer a progressive private account plan that guarantees current rates of return to address the concerns of Democrats. As well as the Peter Ferrara piece, I also recommend the Cato Institute's project on Social Security reform. 
Getting back to the toilet example of innovation, as Republicans we do not seek to reinvent Soeial Security, because it was probably the best idea Democrats have come up with. Consider it more like those new low water usage toilets that give you more flush for your water. In the same good spirit President Franklin D. Roosevelt had for the greatest generation of our grandparents, we just want to make sure our generation gets more bang for our hard-earned buck, and that the baby boom population spike doesn't flush our hard-earned future incomes down the drain. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. He is the co-president of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at trippin@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Do awareness weeks really raise awareness on campus? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ideas are, in truth, forces. Infinite, too, is the power ofpersonality. A union of the two always makes history." 
Henry James American author 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 22, 2005 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


board increase is not justified 


It occurrnd to us wlwn a rather largo pioce of wall fell to tho ground aftnr shutting a door that we might be paying a bit too much for room and board at Notre Damn. In light of the 7 pnrcent increase in tuition and room and hoard, we thought it necessary to expound upon tho living conditions at Notre Dame, particularly in Morrissey. 
Morrissoy has tho loast sq uaro footagn per person on campus and the highost cost pnr squaro foot. Exactly what ar·n wn paying for? Wn don't oxpoct any improve­nwnts or changes to be mado, unloss, of course, "Link, tlw C:ollngn Magazinn" pronounces Morrissey to be the worst eollngo dormitory in the Unitnd Statos again-as tlwy did in 1996. 
Only af'tnr this artielo did tho University f'ix various problmns ranging from a rat carcass in a basement shownr lwad to olnctrkal wiring stapled to the ceiling in plane sight. Thes1~ an~ problnms that the University should lw nxpnetnd to f'ix without the prodding of an indopnrulnnt magazine. Watnr that smells like rotten nggs (or worsn) and walls that are literally falling apart arn just a couple of tho many problems that need to be addrnssod and, from past oxperienco, we doubt the high­er cost will do anything to solve thorn. 
Wo know that we aro oxtrmnely lucky to be attending this University and that we did choose to come here (and would do so again), but parnnts and studonts should nxpnct morn for tlwir money. 
Wo aro proud to bo Manorites, but many of us sec the sham that is the high cost of room and board. Therof'orn, many of us will be moving to larger and more cost-ef'l'i­einnt ofT-campus housing. 
Somnthing is wrong whon students move off campus to save money. Continuous increments in the cost of room and board without any direet benefit going to the stu­dnnts is suspeet at best. The claim that tuition and room and board costs are justified when compared to a Prinenton or llarvard is an unacenptable argument. espndally wlwn eonsidering that the eost of living in nortlwrn Indiana is mud1 loss than in the Northeast. 
We want a Notre Dame that is fair to its students and whosn tuition polieins arn not determined by anothor campus hundreds of miles away. One of tho more popu­lar sontirnonts around horn is that Notre Dame is morn than just a plaeo whnrn orw eonws to get an education, but that it is a family. Administrators must not tako "the Notrn Damn family" idea vnry seriously, boeause with these annual tuition hikos thoy are hanging their chil­dron out to dry. 
Robert Byrne, jeffSpieldenner sophomores Morrissey Hall feb. 20 

Vagina Monologues do not focus on violence 
In The Observer editorial of Feb. 18, the "overriding goal" of The Vagina Monologues is associated with that of the V-Day movement, namely, "to stop violence against women." It also suggests that, therefore, Notre Dame might properly host the play even though "parts" of it "undoubtedly challenge ... Catholic teaching on human sexuality." 
The characterization of the play is, I suggest, surpassingly risible to any disinterested reader or viewer. By my count, out of 24 units in the play, four, consisting of six pages, deal with vio­lence against women. The other units are enco­mia to lesbian sex, lesbian seduction of adoles­cents, sadomasochism, fornication and mastur­bation, stitched together by passages salted with obscenities and vulgarities of all grades and types. 

What else, really, should be expectod of an author who boasts in her introduction that in her performances she has managnd to have "thirty-two public orgasms a night'"! Ono hopes she was able to control herself somowhat better at Notre Dame. Defend University sponsorship on some other ground, if you will, but not on the ground that this play is anything in the main other than a paean to lesbian soxuallibnrtinism. 
William Dempsey alumnus class of '52 feb. ll 
U-WIRE 

Indecency laws and fines unnecessarily intim_idate television 
Thursday, our stalwart Congress passod the Broadcast Deconey Enforecment Act of 2005, which ratc.hets up fines for single incidents of tnl!wised indeconey to an improssivo $500,000. The act also voids the FCC's obligation to warn performers for a first ommse before a fine can be levied. The vote for the aet was Curtis Luciani 389-38, by the way, reflecting the new conventional wisdom 
University of
that "values" are the hot acees­
Texas Daily
sory "You Don't Want to Be 
Texan
Caught Dnad Without"-sort of 
a political version of the little 
blaek dress. 
In the past, I have writton in opposition to the reeent fieree push for public decency. 1\nd, I must admit, I have boen guilty of earicaturing tho other side, as though they don't have a legitimate com­plaint. This has been very unfair of mo. In fact, now that I've really considerod the issue, I see the wis­dom of their position. 
Any fool up on his constitutional history knows that when the framers wroto the First Amendment, they didn't moan it to proteet people who talk about doo-doo or doin' it. Indeed, had their delicate 18th­century sensibilities been able to conceive of a soci­ety so depraved that doo-doo and doin' it were sub­jects of public conversation, thfly would have made this excoption explicit. Doo-doo and doin' it are icky, and, while we must have wary patience for serious dissent, no deeont civilization can eounte­nanen ickiness. Tlw Homans let Plautus stage all those ribald plays about naughty murtnsans, and look what happmwd to thnm. 

And, really, my own reasons for opposing t.he advocates of public: £1oeency havo bPnn morn pnr­sonal than political. I love indecency and I hatn to hear its honor abused. Mornover, I am unreason­ably fond of the jazzy rhythms of Anwriean profani­ty and can't guaranteo that if I wero in front of a prime-time tolevision camera-(~od willing! -I would be able to refrain from spontannously riffing on them. If the throat of $500,000 of d1~bt will koop mo in line, so be it. 
I laving successfully intimidatod broadcast TV and radio, tho advoeatos of public deecncy are now gnaring up to take on cable TV. Bully for thorn! If children hear naughty words, tlwy might try to find out what they moan. And, good lord, if the childron seo any sex on tho talking-picturos box, their par­ents might actually bo obliged to explain what it is. The First Amendment may bo tho indispensable bulwark of our domoeracy, but surnly we can tweak it a little if that will help delay tlw awkward birds­and-tho-bees talk. I moan ... it's so awkward! 
'11tis column originally appeared in lite Feb. 1H edition ofThe Daily Texan, the daily publication at The University ofTexas-Austin. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of71w Observer. 

U.S. m_edia easily duped 
Tho only adjective that seems to describe the state of the press these days is the eompound modifier "wacky-tragic." 
The U.S.-run Web site for Hadio Free Europn!Hadio liberty published a photograph that is·-as far as we can toll-a satellite pieturn of a 

Staff Editorial 
nudear laboratory in Natanz, Iran. Tho non-government run Wnb site for CNN also ran the University of same picture, and last yoar, we Texas Daily also ran tho picture to aeeompany Texan a column on the Opinion Page. Tho A"soeiatnd Press provided it to us, but aeeording to the lnstituto for Seience and International Security, tho photo was originally taken by Di!,rital Globe, a satellite photograph eompany. 
The problem is that, on the CNN Wob site, the pie­turn was misidentifind in some stories as a North Koroan nudear site, and used-with dill'omnt eap­tions-on both stories about Iran's nudnar ambitions and North Korea's nudear program. On the Hadio Froe Europe Web site, the picturo was used for stories about Iran, North Koroa, and stories about intelli­gence failures in Iraq prior to the war. lndned, the tue­name of tho photo was actually "lraq-Nuclear.jpg." 
Since the story was first reported by bloggor Brad Friedman on Tuesday, CNN has made eorrndions and replaend the photographs on iL-; stories. Don Jonson, director of communications for Hadio Frno Europn!Hadio Liberty said that tho photos in questions worn misidentifind, but no eorrndion has run on the HFIVHL Wob site -the photos worn mernly pulled on stories not dealing with tho nudear fadlity in Natanz. and the file was renamed. 

It's an easy mistake to make, spndfkally after tho passage of the "Honald W. Heagan National Defenso Authorization Aet for Fiscal Year 2005." Section 914 of the aet makos satellite plwtography the govern­mnnt takes or buys imrmuw from Frondorn of' Information Aet n~quosL-;. 
Considering this administration's willingnnss to mis­rnprnsont the f'aeL" to tho tragiwa1:ky rnndia and ambi­tions to use propaganda, until satellitn photography is fully opened lo the public, it should onjoy tho sanw skoptidsm ono would rnserve li1r a rPport in Chinosn rwws agency Xinhua or communist-run Pravda. 
This editorial originally appeared in llw Feb. 18 edi­tion ofThe Daily n1xan. the daily publication at '17w llni11ersity ofTexas-Austin. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsenwr. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, February 22, 2005 
DVD REVIEWS 

Scorsese' s boxing classic receives special treatment 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Critic 

"Raging Bull," director Martin Scorsese's best film, recently got the deluxe DVD treatment from MGM in a two-dise special edition, replacing the long out-of-print original disc. 
A quarter of a century later, "Haging Bull" remains a towering achievement of 20th century cinema. A brutally unf'linching portrait of Jake La Motta (Hobert De Niro), the one-time mid­dleweight boxing champion of the world, Scorsese's film originally polarized critics and audiences upon its 1980 release. With what some critics called-a violent, misogynistic and unsympathetic animal of a protagonist, the !ilm was uncomfort­ably rnceived. Yet its stature has grown ov1~r the years to the point that American Film magazine declared it the greatest film of the 1980's, and the American Film Institute named it the 24th best film of all time. 
Like other great "sports" movies, "Haging Bull" is not actually about box­ing, but uses boxing to examine the tor-in fine shape, which solid black levels and little grain and digital artifacting. The sound is solid, but unspectacular. The 5.1 digital audio mix is less immer­sive than could be hoped, especially dur­ing the fight scenes. One might've hoped that MGM would've opened up the soundstage a bit more, but since the !ilm was originally mixed in surround sound, what is found here is certainly adequate. 


The extras are substantial and inform­ative. The first disc has no fewer than three commentaries -one from Schoonmaker and Seorsese, one featur­ing the east and crew and a final one fea­turing the "storytellers," including Schrader and La Motta himself. All three are excellent, with lots of insights and anecdotes. 
The second disc houses most of the special features. The heart of the materi­al is four featurettes, which altogether run nearly an hour and a half in length. They are extremely insightful, supplying anecdotes and behind the scenes memo­ries from the east and the filmmakers. 
"Raging Bull" is one of the finest motion pictures ever made, a roaring tes­tament to the skills of its director, star, screenwriter and editor and a crowning achievement of modern cinema. This lat­est, excellent DVD from MGM gets the highest possible recommendation. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Spider-Man sequel swings past predecessor 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Critic 

Sequels are rarely stellar, particularly those following up a major summer blockbuster. But somehow "Spider-Man 2" manages not only to be as good as the original. but actually manages to surpass it in many ways. Not only are the special effects superior to the first film, the sequel ups the ante with a more interest­ing plot and better acting that brings a elassic comic book villain to life. 
"Spider-Man 2" revisits the life of Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire). who is trying to somehow balance life as a college stu­dent with his dual life as Spider-Man. The duties of a superhero aren't very for­giving, whieh causes Peter to get fired from his pizza delivery job, neglect his schoolwork and deny his feelings for Mary Jane Watson (Kirsten Dunst). His friend Harry (James Franco), who believes that his father was killed by Spider-Man, pressures Peter to help him exaet revenge on the hero. 
On top of these problems, Peter's spi­der powers seem to be failing him. The remarkable web-spinning powers that tured psyche of a character consumed by jealousy, frustration, hatred, fear and inadequacy. By the time the picture ends, the audience has been given a look into the soul of a tormented man who has fallen into nothing, but is left with the smallest glimpse of self-recognition. 
From a technical standpoint, every­thing about "Raging Bull" is perfeet. Scorsese and all his long-time collabora­tors reach their zenith here, turning in the best work of their careers. The acting is all top-notch, but the film is undoubt­edly anchored by De Niro's stunning Oscar-winning performance. The actor trained with La Motta for a year to get into shape, then gained 60 pounds to play the boxer as a fat middle-aged man -starting the actors' trend of drastic physical transformation in order to bet­ter "live in" a character. 
In most other films, such a perform­ance would overshadow all the other actors, but not here. Joe Pesei holds his own in a star-making performance as Jake's brother Joey and Catherine Moriarity garnered acclaim and an Academy Award nomination as Jake's wife, Vicki. 
Scorsese is at the top of his game, directing with relentless passion and purpose. Thelma Schoonmaker, Scorsese's long-time editor, won an Oscar for her incredible work here, and writer Paul Schrader penned a script that crackles with life and fervor. 
The DVD is well-pre­sented. The print itself is 

propel him across the city begin to fail, resulting in nasty falls and doubts about his abilities. The building pressure culmi­nates in Peter throwing away his Spidey suit and giving up the superhero busi­ness. 
Peter's retirement is called into ques­tion when Dr. Otto Octavius (Alfred Molina), a scientist searching for a new way to generate power, conducts an experiment that goes wildly awry. The metal arms he strapped to his back fuse with his body and twist the formerly benevolent doctor's psyche. Dr. Octopus, as he comes to be known, goes on a crime spree across the city and Harry enlists him to aid in capturing Spider­Man. 
The plot of "Spider-Man 2" is much more engaging than the first film, espe­cially since less time must be spent on introducing the essential characters and storylines. Maguire does a great job again in the role of Peter, embodying both aspects of his character's dual life well. The breakout star of the film, though, is Molina in the role of Dr. Octavius. He makes his character sympa­thetic -but not nauseatingly so ­before his transformation, and he is even 
better when he is allowed 
to explore the villainous 
role. Unlike William Defoe 
in the first film, Molina 
manages to avoid the 
· scenery-chewing style of 
acting and actually makes 
his villain respectable and 
even slightly terrifying. 
The special edition DVD 
for "Spider-Man 2" comes 
with a wide variety of 
extras. The first disc 


includes two very different commen­taries. The first features director Sam Haimi and Maguire, producer Avi Arad and co-producer Grant Curtis. But if viewers want to find out more about the special effects in the film, particularly those used to bring Dr. Octopus to life, they can listen to the second commentary featuring members of the various special effects teams. There is also a trivia subti­tle track that can be viewed along with the movie, a series of featurettes, a blooper reel and music videos from the film's soundtrack. 
The seeond disc is composed of fea­turettes. These include "Making the Amazing," which details various aspects of the film's production, "Hero in Crisis," which traces the development of Peter Parker's character and "Enter the Web," which details the premiere fight sequence between Spider-Man and Doe Ock. 
Overall, "Spider-Man 2" is a fantastic example of just how good a summer blockbuster can be when a film's cre­ators care about the its quality. The DVD set ref'lects this devotion to excellence. Viewers can only hope the filmmakers continue this vigilance when the inevitable third film is made. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Tuesday, February 22, 2005 
page II 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Hellishly dull plot dooms 'Constantine' 
By RYAN ROGERS 
Scene (:ririe 
c0 n t i nu in g tlw tJ"(~ n d 0 f ad aptin g cornir books in to m ovins, "Constanti nn" fails to stand out from tlw otlwr films of its w·nrn. 
.John Constantin!' (Knanu Hnnvns) was horn with tl11' cursn of stwing angnls and dPmons among tho living. As a boy unahiP to ropP with tlwsP visions, lw atiPmpts suiridP and is only doad for two minutPs. \flprward. Constantirw has a hdtPr pPr­
distinct set of rules, none of which are elnar to thn viewer. This fatal flaw loaves thn audinnee with more ques­tions on thn way out of the thnater than on tho way in. Sure, the nfToets are fun. but it is hard to enjoy thmn whiln con­stantly asking, "what the heck is going on'?" 
The s1~ript for "Constantinn" needed a lot morn work. Aside from simply not communicating what is necessary to advance thn story, it trios to tackln too llllll'h. Tlw back-story is so complex that a wholly separate film detailing thn 
origin of .John 

spnrt.ivP on lhl' Constantine
Constantine 

way t.lw world would have been wo;·ks. liP knows 
morn appropri­11 ho Ill t hI' I' XiS­ate. Instead. you tPnr·p of l11•avnn got a half-baked a n d lw II an d t h " plot added on
Director: Francis Lawrence 

bat tiP of good VI' r­that the audience 
Writers: Kevin Brodbin and Frank
sus nvil. Now hn never fully
Cappello

spPnds his days understands or
Starring: Kcanu Reeves, Rachel Weisz, 
pPrforming nxor­really 1:arf1s 
Djimon Hounsou and Tilda Swinton 
risms in hopns about. 
that tlwy will rndnPm him in tho nyos of God and lwlp to Parn his way into lwavon. But lwrnusP Constantino's suirido was a mortal sin, hn is dostirwd for holl ­and. as a chain smoknr, hn has rocontly htHHJ diagnosPd with lung cancer. 
As if this wnron't enough to hamlin in orw lilm. Constantirw thon diseovnrs tho dnvil's son is planning to eomo to Earth and bring holl with him. This, of eourso, rt~quirns st.rangn rituals involving thn Dodson twins (both playod by Hachnl Wnisz) and tho spear of dostiny (thn spnar that is said to havn killod Jnsus Christl. 
This film is basod on exploring a vnry 
It is difficult to tnll if thn script is responsible for the bad acting or not. Heeves delivers his onn-linnrs with expected gusto. Weisz is nothing spneial, just another skeptical partner that is all to1i willing to take Constantine's leaps of faith. Shia LaBnou!' plays Constantine's apprentice and serves his purpose as cheap comic rnlief. Gavin Hossdaln inexplicably plays a darkly humorous demon that has it out for Constantine. 
The best performance comes from Djimon llounsou as Midnite, the owner of a nightelub in which both angels and demons are welcome. Midnite is the only character that seems to have morn 

than one charaetnr trait and morn than ono brain coil. 
Thore are some redeeming qualities about "Constantinn." Stylistically. it is flashy and fun to watch, which is to be nxpoelf1d from Franeis Lawrence, a popular music video director turned film director. There is also an effort to stay true to the lilm's comic book roots, with a lot of picturnsque slow motion shots and extreme angles that look like pages straight out of comics. 
Onn of thn film's biggest dotradions is its ovnrtly ndigious and of't11n sacrile­gious nature. A lot of Catholi<: ieons are juxtaposed with vulgaritins likn tlw middle fingnr, which may oiTnrHI some view11rs. 
When all is said and donn, "Constantine" kills itself. The film has some basic appeal but fails to oxm·.utn on nnarly all of its fronts. 
Contact Ryan Rogers at rrogers2@nd.edu 

~"Boogeyman' succeeds on the usual thrills 
only flaw in his plan is that his fears By MARK BEMENDERFER arn indned very real and clangorous. Sn·n,· <:ririe 
"Boognyman" is a haunted house movie as much as a stalker l'lick . WhilP many horror l'ilms conw out .Jnnsnn's 1~hildhood homo has fallen yParly that tourh upon tlw tlwnw of thn dnop into eobwob-covored disuse over hoogPynntn. no movin has ypt taeklnd the ynars of his absence). Plastk drapes thl' thPmn dirortly. So it's about. limn over a lot. of the furniture and house, that somnonl' has dPIVt~d into t.lw c.rnating an nerie mood for thn lilm. But mythology hnhind onn of childhood's .li\!Jsnn dons not limit. himsPlf to just thn oldnst fnars. house. and crafts othnr spooky sottings 
"BoogPyman." dirnrtod by StPplwn T. to nxudn an ominous tonn. Kay, opPnl'd at numlH'r onl' at tho box Watson does a dncnnt job in his roln, ol'f'icl' for t.hl' J.'P!J. 4-6 wnnkond. It as do thn other principal actors. The builds on what is bPcoming a vnry prof­story focuses on Watson's character pri­itahiP nidw in thn . marily, with ot.lwr PlltPrt.ainmPnt characters intro­
Boogeyman

industry -t.lw p(;. duced to add a I;{ horror movie. 
tinge of mystnry. It borrows eln­The aud in nee mnnt.s of tho gets to mnet movins that l'<Lilln Watson's currnnt Director: Stephen T. Kay
hnl'orn it. and girlfriend, his 
Writers: Eric Kripke, Juliet Snowden
n x t n n ds tlw 111 to childhood friend 
and Stiles White

l'rnatn a good. and his unele, but 
Starring: Barry Watson, Lucy Lawless, 
t·ompdnnt narra­all of thesn char­
Emily Deschanel and Tory Mussett
tive. llowev'nr. it acters are supcr­also doosn't dnvi-l'icially devel­atn mueh from its prndecessors, so it opod. Thn only person the audience fails to nxennd the usual expectations grows to earn about is Jensen, which "Boogeyman" would have benefited the boogeyman from dassie childhood for tho horror gnnrn. can be a littln limiting. gwatly from his direct involvement, as lorn. Whiln thern an~ some striking sim­
Tim .Jensen (Barry Watson) apparent­The acting from the secondary ehar­Kay simply lacked thn experience com­ilarities bntween the two, thero aro ly had a fairly traumatic childhood. aetnrs donsn't dnsnrvo any serious com­ing into the 111m to make it stand out. enough dil'fnrnnens to distinguish After all, not 1wnry child gnts to watch plaints, but the aetors also didn't get The result is that the horror film cliches "Boogeyman." as tlwir fatlwr is killnd and taken by the too much to work with. Evnn Lucy -loud noises, anti-climaxes and a And barring it~ obvious shortcomings, hoogoyman. Now, years latnr, .Jnns1m is Lawlnss, of "Xnna" fame, is pushed into computer-generated ending -arc the lilm nnds up being enjoyabln. It's a a grown man who grows unnasy ovnr a secondary role. included in "Boogeyman." treat for thrill-sonknrs to watch, evnn shady dosnts and dark holes. (.'itting The lilm 's main problems arise from The boogeyman has been the theme more so if thny wnrn frightnnnd by thn l'onvmiitmlly into the f'ilm's narrative, its convoluted narrative structure. The of many movies, but always indirectly. boogoyman concnpt as ehildrnn. .Jnnsm1 is forcnd to hoad hack homn. film was financed by Sam Haimi's Ghost "The Nightmare on Elm Street" film Once thorn. lw dneidns to finally face llousn Pictures, and Haimi is no series touchnd upon the theme, but the Contact Mark Bemendcrfer at his fnars and provn tlwy don't exist. Thn stranger to horror movies. villainous Freddy Krueger wasn't quite mbemende@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 22, 2005 
NASCAR 

Gordon enjoys life as a star on and off the racetrack 
Yet, for all his riches and Gordon. that position, to have chaos
Associated Press fame, Gordon is still interested "Seventy!" he said, relishing happening all around you, for DAYTONA BEACH. Fla. -in the basics. the sound. "I wanted to get to your car to lead the pack. Jeff Gordon celebrated his "You know, I learned quite a 70. That seemed like a good "I enjoy being in that posi­third Daytona 500 victory while ago that it's not racing number." tion. Being out front is the only aboard his 106-foot yacht, the that I love, it's winning," To do it, Gordon had to out­place to be. I wanted that 24 Karat. Gordon said. race defending champion Dale -checkered flag really bad. I The four-time NASCAR And he's done plenty of that. Earnhardt Jr., former series looked in my mirror and did champion is rich beyond imag­His victory Sunday, that champion Tony Stewart, who everything I could." ination, has Hollywood good came in spectacular fashion, led a race-high 107 laps, and What he saw in the mirror looks, and is an A-list celebrity not only put him among the Kurt Busch. on the last two laps was Busch who is just as comfortable Daytona elite -joining He also had to survive a final trying to close the gap by stay­hosting "Saturday Night Live" Richard Petty (7). Cale 20 laps that were chaotic. ing behind Gordon's rear or sitting in on "Live with Yarborough (5), Bobby Allison There were two crashes. bumper and coming up about 
r 
Regis and Kelly" as driving his (3) and Dale Jarrett (3) as the involving 17 cars and a third two lengths short. No. 24 Chevrolet. only drivers with three or caution flag for debris that "I saw some video of the fm­
Besides the yacht that was more victories at Daytona. sent the race into a three-lap ish and saw how much anchored just minutes from He has 70 career wins and is overtime. momentum Busch had," Daytona International within six of Dale Earnhardt. "Those are the moments Gordon said. ''I'm really Speedway last week, Gordon Only six drivers in the more that you live for, the moments thankful he didn't try to go to flies around in a private plane th~m half century of NASCAR we get paid the big bucks for," my outside because I think he and has several homes. racing have won more than Gordon said. "You live to be in had the momentum to do it." 


NHL 


North America's first lost sports season leaves a black eye 
Even Gretzky and Lemieux failed to save the imperiled league schedule 
false -as both sides said "final offers" were traded
Associated Press 

emphatically Friday -and an Tuesday night. The NIIL was 
NEW YORK-With Wayne agreement was not on the dug in at a hard cap of $42.5 Gretzky and Mario Lemieux radar screen. million, and the players would­inside the NHL labor mess, a If there was a shot at a deal n't budge off their counterpro­terrible situation became a with a $45 million salary cap, posal of a $49 million soft cap. Great debacle instead of a we'll never know. The discus­NHLPA executive director Super save. sion over a number never came Bob Goodenow told Bettman he 
The sport's biggest stars up -much to the dismay of wouldn't hear from the players' came up short at the bargain­Nos. 99 and 66. -side again -and Goodenow ing table on Saturday, and the This time, the news hit doubly kept to his word during the season was wrecked twice and hard. How was it possible that final 12 hours before the sea­for all. the worst possible scenario son was canceled. 
It was first wiped out took a steeper turn downward But Bettman left the door Wednesday, killed off when in the same week? open more than once during his commissioner Gary Bettman The NIIL was already dealing end-of-the-season news confer­said the differences over a with the black eye· of being the ence. He said he wouldn't mind salary cap between the league first major North American the embarrassment of a second and the players' association sports league to lose an entire announcement hours later that wouldn't allow for hockey until season to a labor dispute. It a deal was reached, that is if at least the fall. took only three more days to the union accepted his take-it­
But neither side was really damage the reputation of two or-leave-it offer from Tuesday. ready to let the season go. Hall of Famers. lie didn't even rule out an 
Enter the Great Gretzky of No one in the hockey world accord with a salary cap of $45 Phoenix, and Pittsburgh's Super was happy that the season was million, even though he said Mario. lost, but many were prepared teams would be stretched to the 
Three days afier hockey for what was previously limit at $42.5 and that there Armageddon, there was sud­unthinkable. It became clear was no time to negotiate. denly new life and new hope during the past year how far Yet, there was. that the season could be saved. apart the sides were. The NHL called players' asso­Gretzky and Lemieux -super­But the roller coaster of the ciation president Trevor Linden stars turned executives of low­three days before the final to get him back to the table. budget teams -helped get the meeting was both cruel and Linden turned to Gretzky and sides back together and then unusual for the die-hard fan Lemieux to become hockey's joined the fray. and for Gretzky and Lemieux. version of Eric Gagne -the 
There was no way these guys The hard part was already closers of the deal. would fail, right? But they did. overcome Monday when the The cap was always the issue, And they never really had a NHL dropped its demand for a even after it was accepted by chance. link between league revenues the players. The debate of hard 
When Gretzky and Lemieux and player costs, and the union cap vs. soft cap was never got to the table Saturday, it said it would tben accept a resolved, nor was how the limit became clear quickly that salary cap. would fluctuate over the course rumors of a done deal were Angry letters containing of the six-year deal. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
OFFICIALS NEEDED for baseball, softball, flag football and indoor lacrosse. Experience preferred for baseball officials. Great opportunity to earn good money. Contact RecSports office, Tara Fisher or Jeff Walker at 631·61 00 or stop by the office in the Rolfs Sports Rec Center. You can also email us at recsport@ nd.edu 

CARE NEEDED in my home for 3 year old & 7 month old. Monday thru Thursday 2:30 pm -5 pm. 1 Saturday a month. Own transporta· lion required. 5 mins from ND. Major in early childhood develop· men! or child psychology a plus. References required. Call 288· 6795. 
FoR SALE 

Gently used loveseat + chair. Taupe w/ muted pinstriges; wood trim -Broyhill-$150 674·6150 This terrific one bedroom condo in Woodbridge Condominiums is close enough to walk to ND. Why rent? Own this for $62,900! Contact Prudential One Realty or Cherie TeRoller at 284·2600. 
Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254· 1772 for more info. Gently used loveseat + chair. Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood trim -Broyhill-$150 674·6150 


FoR RENT 

THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths. $80·$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1·800·418· 9487. 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM· PUS! Mmmrentals.com Email: mmmrentals@aol.com 


TICKETS 
BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 272·6619 


PERSONALS 
Will we miss Dad? YES. 

That quad's gonna be a rocking-
Charlie Weis, how great thou art 
Nothing like a little jalepeno pep· pers to spice up an evening 
In the beginning of the spring: life 
Happy Bread Christmas 
God of Wine is an amazing song 
Ma-ia·hee ma·ia-haa ma-ia hoo, that kid in the European song video is such a sweet dancer, especially when he uses his eyebrows to such a great extent. We need more able and willing dancers on campus. 
What could be better than Greensleeves with a guitar solo? 

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENTS page 13 


50-yea.r corres'Pondence oetween 
letters
a. -p\aY bY J\.1\. GurneY
\ 

Starrin@: susan Rart and Digger l?hel"PS 
'f\cltS\S ~a\\sb\e st the LS Fortune Bolt Of!\ce, S~l-Bl2B ..... ,,
\ 8 

Washington Hall, University of N otre Da 
To benefit' 

ebruary 24 me
F '2005 • 7 3 ••• Call 631-8128 ~ : 0 p.m.
~ or more information . 
LOGAN 
. . . . .
. . . ,·. 
' .
. . . 
Tuesday, February 22, 2005 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
NFL 

Titans release Mason 
Tennessee cuts six players to get below salary cap for 2005 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. Heceiver Derrick Mason and cornerback Samari Rolle were among six players released Monday by the Tennessee Titans in an effort to cut up to $27 million to get under the NFL salary cap. · 
In addition to Mason and Rolle, the Titans released start­ing defensive lineman Kevin Carter and right tackle Fred Miller. They also cut fullback Robert Holcombe and kicker .Joe Nedney. 
Titans owner Bud Adams said everyone on the team knew this day was coming. 
to a team that's going to com­pete for a championship next year," Mason told radio station WWTN-FM. 
Rolle, considered among the league's top cover cornerbacks, was arrested last week on a domestic assault charge. A Pro Bowl selection in 2000, Rolle played in 12 games last season before having surgery on his left knee. He had only one interception and 28 tackles. 
Carter was the veteran on a very young defensive line last season. He played both end and tackle while mentoring the Titans' five draft picks. Miller is a nine-year veteran who started at right tackle the last five seasons for Tennessee. 
Holcombe's roster spot has been in jeopardy since the Titans drafted Troy Fleming last April. Fleming had better 
. numbers rushing 
and catching. 
"At this point, I  "This is a salary cap  Nedney  has  
believe this is the best option for our franchise  decision we have to make and to the  missed all but one half of the past two seasons  
and know it will  common  person, it  with a torn ACL,  
make us stronger for the future," Adams  doesn't make any sense at all. "  then a torn ham­string. The Titans are  
said in  a state- the  league's  
ment.  "To  our  Jeff Fisher  fourth-win­ 
fans, this is not  Titans head coach  ningest  team  

an ending. I believe in this team and I look forward to seeing them grow." 
General manager Floyd Heese said the Titans want to mimic Baltimore's approach to the salary cap -slash large salaries in one lump and, hopefully, limit any damage to one season. 
"We're done manipulating. Now we're going to fix this," Reese said. 
Mason led all NFL receivers last season with a career-high 96 catches for 1,168 yards and seven touchdowns. The eight­year veteran was the first play­er in franchise history to have four consecutive 1,000-yard receiving seasons. 
Mason said he was anxious to test free agency. "I've got a good four, five more years in me. I want to go 
since 1999 at 
61-35. 
"There's a chance we could get some of these guys back," coach Jeff Fisher told WWTN­FM. "This is a salary cap deci­sion we have to make and to the common person, it doesn't make any sense at all. I think it illustrates how sophisticated the process is." 
Reese said the cuts will clear 80 percent of the $27 million that the team is over the cap. The Titans are reworking a few other contracts, and Reese said Monday's moves will allow the team to tender offers to their 10 restricted free agents and all their exclusive rights free agents. 
Tennessee has the sixth pick overall in the upcoming the draft, their highest since selecting Steve McNair third overall in 1995. 
all for just 

P~e.. ~51l~Edison~kesl'llr*w1ly;, 
-[iitilliiM:Iiii:IJIM Mishawaka I 27H~2f 
Unmistakably Italian\ Unbelievably Good . 

~''~t~~; . 

.·. 
MLB 

Bonds to report for spring ball 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Few spring training arrivals com­pare to the day Barry Bonds shows up at Scottsdale Stadium. 
It's when the San Francisco Giants superstar holds his annual state-of-Barry address -and more often than not, it's the most he says to reporters all season. 
When he arrives Tuesday, it's sure to be quite an event. More than 100 media members are likely to attend, and they'll be looking for answers from the slugger that aren't sealed. 
Bonds will be peppered with questions about the steroid con­troversy that constantly sur­rounds him. 
Will it affect the legacy he leaves? 
Will his records be tainted? 
Does he care at all what fans think of him? 
He might not answer any of them, or could choose to be candid. 
This will be the first time the 40-year-old Bonds has spoken publicly since his grand jury testimony was leaked to the San Francisco Chronicle and report­ed in December. Bonds testified in December 2003 that he used a clear substance and a cream given to him by a trainer who was indicted in a steroid-distri­bution ring, but said he didn't know they were steroids. 
"Ever since I've been here, no matter what happens off the field or what he's dealing with, once he gets on the field, he's always focused and able to be the best player in the game," Giants pitcher Kirk Bueter said. "That just shows you how he focuses and how much he con-


centrates once he's on the field." 
But Bonds isn't expected to do a lot on the field until at least the middle of March. 
He had arthroscopic surgery on both knees since last season ended, including an operation on his right knee Feb. 1 that will limit him for much of the spring. Bonds will be rehabili­tating the knee under the direc­tion of team trainer Stan Conte. 
"What I have heard so far is early in the camp he's not going to be doing much," manager Felipe Alou said Monday. "I don't see any anticipation here except that one of the best play­ers to ever play the game is coming in .... We're used to that [fanfare] here a lot. It would be kind of strange if' we dido 't have it now." 
The seven-time NL MVP enters his 20th major league season with 703 homers, trail­ing only Hank Aaron (755) and Babe Ruth (7141 on the career list. Bonds drew 232 walks last season, 34 more than the record he set in 2002 and more than 100 more than anyone in baseball. His 120 intentional walks shattered the mark of 68 that he set in 2002. 
With Alou's son, Moises, bat­ting behind Bonds this season, the skipper believes Bonds might not walk quite as often. 
UNIVERSITY O.F 

1(r~: D E B A R T 0 L 0 
NOTRE DAME 

Dm>ARTMENT OF MIJSIC ~~ "'J/i PERFORMING ARTS CENTER
'~:...... 
'

Over 300 Players & Singers! 
Saturday, February 26, 2005 8:00p.m. 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra Notre Dame Chorale Notre Dame Glee Club Notre Dame Liturgical Choir Notre Dame Women's Liturgical Choir 
with faculty soloists 

Carolyn Plun1mer, violin Karen Buranskas, cello John Blacklow, piano 
Mozart:.Overture to Die Zauberflote Beethoven: Triple Concerto Haydn: Harmouiemesse 
Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts University of Notre Dame 
Admission $6; ND /SMC faculty I staff $5; seniors $4; students $3 
'lt!esday, rebruary 22, 2005 

The Observer + SPORTS page IS 
NBA 

Trade deadline lootns for teatns as All-Star break ends 

AP 

Tlmberwolves forward Wally Szczerblak cuts between two Cavaliers and gets an assist on Feb. 17. Minnesota may trade Szczerblak before this week's trading deadline passes. 

Students 
Fly Cheaper 
spring break. study abroad &more 
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from South Bend to: 

Washington, D.C.  $124  Mexico City  $265  
New York City  $168  Frankfurt  $321  
Los Angeles  $233  London  $321  
Anchorage  $261  Melbourne  $1260  

Timberwolves may deal key players in an effort to restructure team 
Associated Press 
DENVEH -In the hours beforn the All-Star gamn, Kevin Garnett wondered how the Minnesota Timberwolv0s might regain the lofty status they ree<\ntly lost. 
If it takes a tradn of' Wally Szcznrbiak, Sam Cassell or Latrnll Sprnwell bnl'ore Thursday's 3 p.m. EST dnadline, it'll probably come as a surprise to the leagun's reigning MVP. 
Or so he says. 
"As of' lately, I havnn 't bonn in the loop on anything, so I don't know what we're doing, what kind of transaetions we're mak­ing," Garnett said Sunday. "As far as .t,he l~up, l don't know where tt s at. 
The All-Star break ended Monday, and the league's 24 best players headed this way and that from a city that pullnd oil' the league's showcase week­end without a hitch and now will focus its attention on the troubles of the struggling Nuggets. 
Denver made the playofl's last season after an eight-year absence, but the Nuggets' cur­rent record (24-29) has left thnm with the 1Oth-best record. Only night teams qualify for the postseason. 
By comparison, though, the Timberwolves' situation is worse. 
After reaching the Western 
~DEBARTOLO 
~ P~RFORMING ARTS CENTER 

TOLERANCE
SPRING 

ARTSfest RECONCILIATION 
TWO WEEKS OF MUSIC, FILM, THEATRE, AND DISCUSSION 
Conference finals last season with the NBA's second-best reeord (58-24), Minnesota entnrs the unoflieial seeond half' of the season as a .500 team with serious ehemistry issues that many believn can only be resolvnd with a rostflr shake-up. 
"Chemistry is sonwthing that's hard. l love all the guys on my tnam, they're all good guys, guys 
that really care about one another, guys that have real, real, real, real work ethics," Garnett said. "And as a unit, we know we can come together and turn this thing around, so whether they're going 

THE NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF FilM, TElEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
to make moves or nut, it's not going to be dependent on what Kevin Garnett thinks." 
Along with the Timbf~rwolves, the Sacramento Kings, Toronto Haptors, Indiana Pacers, Memphis Grizzlies, Portland Trail Blaznrs, Boston Celtics, New York Knicks and Los Angeles Lakers are the f'avoritns to make something happen before the league's trading deadline passes Thursday after­noon. 
~UNtVERSITY Of 
WNOTREDAME 
THE LARAMIE PROJECT BY MOISEs KAUFMAN 
DIRECTED BY ANTON JUAN DEClO MAINSTAGE THEATRE FEBRUARY 22 -MARCH 3 TICKETS $12, $10 FACULTY/STAff, SlO SENIORS, 58 All STUDENTS The1998murder of Motlhew Shepard hos become on imn of ifltc-Aeronce. In resp~se to the brutol event The LorOilW Proieet mpues the turldent emo~ons of the residoo~ of Loromie, Wyooing, haunted by the reooly rhot collectively they hod rois&d rhe sons who could show such hote. Itis 
ostory of If greut smb:6s, great beouty ond, peritops most importondy, greot revelations. 
FOR TICKETS CALL THE TICKET OFFICE AT 574.63L2800 
DEAD MAN WALKING BY TIM ROBBINS DIRECTED BY SIIRI SCOTI AND JAY SKELTON PHilBIN STUDIO THEATRE fEBRUARY 26-MARCH 2 TI(K£iS $12, SlO FACUUYISTAff, SlO SENIORS, 58 All STUDENTS This fosdoating trld power(~ ~oy explores the rdotionsbip between o coodenmed yoong convict ood the 1100 who counsels him in 1he doys leming up to his exe<ution for otope ond biUJU doOOie mutder. 
THE NOTRE DAME CENTER fOR SOOAl CONCERNS PRESHUS 
•THE CAPITAl JUDIOAL PROCESS: ASYSTEM Of JUSTIC£ AND RECONOUATION?* Keynote Address by former Goveroor George H. Ryan cJ llllnois 
Morlday. Feb. 28, 6:30p.m., Dedo Moit&oge Theolre 
VISIT HTTP://PERFORMINGARTS.NO.EDU/ARTSFEST.SHTML 
Saeranwnto's Chris W1~hlwr. Nnw York's Kurt Thomas. Toronto's .lalnn BosP and Donynll Marshall, Indiana's sus­pPJHind Hon Artnst, MPmphis' Bonzi WPIIs, Portland's Damon Stoudamirtl, Niek Van l~xnl and Hulwn l'altnrson, Miami's l•:ddil' Jonns and the l.akPrs' Lamar Odom wnrn among tlw nanws !wing bandied about. in tradn 
rumors OVI'r 
tho wnnkmul. 
"I think 

"Chemistry is something ovnry yoar thorn's so
that's hard. 1 love all the 
mur.h spnr.u­

guys on my team, they're lation. but wn 
all good guys, guys that always say nobody wants
really care about one 
to pull that

another." 
triggnr," Snattle's Hay Allm1 said. "It

Kevin Garnett 
might bo that

Timberwolves power forward 
sonw 1Oth to 
12th playnrs 
are moved 

around, somn draf"t picks. But nothing rnally significant nvnr happnns." 
Allen snemed to be f'orgntting a big pincn of his own rncnnt past, thn dnadline-day dnal between tho SuperSonir.s and Milwauknn two yoars ago. 
Allnn was r.aught compll\toly off guard wlw n tho Bueks shippnd him to Soattlo for Gary Payton and Dosmond Mason, and r.hanens aro somnonn will bn in a similar situation beforn tlw opportunity to makn doals expirns. 
Many bnli£we this is a diiTnrnnt soason than tho NBA has Pxpo­rionr.od for thn past dor.ado, tlw ra1~n for t.lw dmmpionship morl' wido opon than 99 pPrr.nnt of' thn loagun's playor population has nvnr snl\n. 
"Evmybody says San Antonio is Uw team to bnat, and dPfinitP­Iy thoy'vo oanwd that and haw Uw right to say that," PhoPnix's Shawn Marion said. "Wn havo to provo WI' can Jwat t.lwm and play with thnm." 
Phol'nix (41-UI r.onws out of' tho brnak just a half'-gaml' bohind San Antonio (41-12) l'or Uw IPagun's bnst. rnr.ord. 
Miami (40-14), Snattln (:{5-15), Dallas (35-1 6). l.lw ddnnding champion Pistons (32-191 and Sacramonto (:B-20) am right on Uwir henls, and Clnvnland CW­21 ), Washington (30-22) and Houston (:{2-21) aro tho lnagtw's upstarts. 
One sportswritnr who had a fivn-hour layovor in Las Vegas on his way to Denver noticed that the Hockets were listnd as 30-1 to win the titiP. 
That l'ad was relayed Sunday to Tracy MeGrady, who was immmliatoly taknn aback givnn his tnam 's night-game winning streak. 
"Whoa. Heally'?" 

"I think we've shown ovor tho past month that wo're a toam not to hn taken lightly," McCrady said. "Maybo tlwy think our time is not now sinco it's our first ynar tognthnr, myself and Yao IMingl. but I don't feel that way. W1~ did gnt oil' to a bad start and dug our­selves a big holn, but if tlwy watched ovnr the past month they'd reali7.o wn'rn onl\ of' the nlito tnams in this ll\agtw now." 
Thn problnm, as Carnntt can attnst, is that elitn tnam status is flenting in today's NBA. 
Tnams have four days to do sonwthing about it bnf'ore tlw trading doadlinn passns. 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


OUND THE NATION 
page 16 CoMPILED FROM THE Ol;sERVER'SWIRE SERVICES Tuesday, February 22, 2005 
Men's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Illinois (72)  27·0  1,800  
2  North Carolina  22·3  1,709  
3  Boston College  22-1  1,601  
4  Oklahoma State  20-3  1;540  
5  Kentucky  20-3  1,460  
6  Wake Forest  22·4  1,385  
7  Duke·  19-4  1,324  
8  Kansas  20·3  1,310  
9  Arizona  23·4  1,288  
10  Michigan State  19·4  1,115  
11  Louisville  23-4  1,029  
12  Gonzaga  21-4  931  
13  Utah  23·3  927  
14  Washington  21-4  849  
15  Syracuse  22·5  814  
16  Alabama  21-4  805  
17  Connecticut  17-6  642  
18  Pittsburgh  18-5  567  
19  Pacific  22-2  470  
20  Wisconsin  17-6  364  
21  Charlotte  19-4  339  
22  Oklahoma  19-6  288  
23  Villanova  17-6  276  
24  Cincinnati  20-6  193  
25  Nevada  20-5  55  

Women's College Basketball· AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 LSU (45) 24·1 1,125 2 Duke 25-2 1,050 3 Stanford 23-2 1,042 4 Ohio State 25•3 936 5 Tennessee 21-4 920 6 Baylor 21-3 878 6 Michigan State 24-3 878 8 North Carolina 22·3 804 9 Rutgers 20·5 796 10 NOTRE DAME 23-4 761 11 Connecticut 18-6 663 12 DePaul 23-3 595 13 Texas 17-7 594 14 Texas Tech 19·5 531 15 Minnesota 20-6 480 16 Temple 22·3 451 17 Kansas State 18-6 306 18 Georgia 20-'7 294 19 N.C. State 19·6 289 20 Vanderbilt 19-6... 275 21 Iowa State 19-5 233 22 Penn State 18·8 216 23 Maryland 18·7 176 24 Boston College 17-7 73 25 Gonzaga 24-2 55 
Fencing Coaches' Association Rankings 
Women's Men's 
1 Ohio State 1 OhioState 
2 NOTREDAME 2 Penn State 
3 Penn State 3 St. John's (NY) 
4 Harvard 4 NOTREDAME 
5 Columbia 5 Columbia 
6 Northwestern 6 Princeton 
7 St. John's (NY) 7 Penn 
8 Penn 8 Harvard 
9 Princeton 9 Stanford 
10 Temple 10 Air Force 
around the dial 

MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Purdue at Indiana, 7 p.m., ESPN Texas at Texas Tech, 8 p.m., ESPN2 Indiana State at Drake, 8 p.m., FOX Sports Midwest Alabama at LSU, 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Milwaukee at Charlotte, 7 p.m., UPN 
PGA 


Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Adam Scott has his name on the Nissan Open trophy. 
He earned $864,000, which counts just the same if he had played 72 holes, instead of only two rounds fol­lowed by a sudden-death playoff Monday morning in the rain against Chad Campbell. 
He even was nervous standing over his tee shot in the playoff on the famous 18th hole at Riviera Country Club. 
But there was no denying the strange sensation Scott felt after win­ning the first 36-hole event on the PGA Tour in nine years, a victory that comes with a trophy, a check and an asterisk. 
Scott, who made a 20-foot birdie putt a day earlier to finish his second 
IN BRIEF 
Bloomberg, New York City
welcome International 
Olympic Commission 
NEW YORK -The city, digging out from a snowstorm, rolled out a warm welcome Monday for the 13 delegates charged with helping select a host city for the 2012 Olympics. 
"Nice to see you. Welcome," Mayor Michael Bloomberg told the International Olympic Committee evaluation commission delegates during a meet-and-greet ceremony at the Plaza Hotel. He later joked that the blanket of snow positioned the city to also bid for the Winter Games. 
Bloomberg, accompanied by U.S. Olympic Committee chairman Peter Ueberroth, shook hands with the del­egates in a conference room that bore an NYC2012 logo on the floor. Each delegate carried a thick "2012" binder. 

round tied with Campbell at 9-under 133, made short work of the long week by getting up-and-down for par on the first extra hole to win the Nissan Open. 
After rolling in the 4-footer, Scott had to remind himself what winners do. 
First came an awkward smile, then he gently raised his hand to acknowl­edge the 200 people watching the bizarre conclusion under gray skies and a colorful array of umbrellas. 
"It doesn't feel like we played much golf this week," Scott said. "I don't feel tired and drained like you nor­mally do when it's finally over, and you've been battling with some guy for the last 36 holes. It's been an odd week." 
The tournament was cut short to 36 holes because of heavy rain 
The evaluation commission is in town for a final round of scrutiny, evaluating the five cities still in the running for the Olympics. The group already toured Madrid and London, with Moscow and Paris left to visit. The IOC will weigh the evaluators' findings and announce its decision July 6. Colts sign veteran tackle Diem 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts signed right tackle Ryan Diem to a seven-year contract Monday, another step in keeping their high­scoring offense together for one more season. 
The next move could come Tuesday when the Colts were expect­ed to place the franchise designation on Pro Bowl running back Edgerrin James. 
Diem's new deal will prevent him from becoming an unrestricted free agent in March. Salary figures were overnight that turned Riviera into the prettiest swamp on Sunset Boulevard. 
PGA Tour events have to be at least 54 holes to be considered official. That means Scott still has only three PGA Tour victories. He does not earn a trip to the winners-only Mercedes Championships next year at Kapalua, or any of the other perks that come with winning. 
Scott agrees with the policy, but he found plenty of positives. 
"I wanted to win just as bad as any other playofl'," he said. "But it was a different feeling, for sure." 
Campbell also felt the sting of los­ing. 
He was at a slight disadvantage, having not hit a shot since he tapped in for par to complete his second round Friday with a 6-under 65. 
not immediately available, but the deal was believed to include a sign­ing bonus of about $12 million and expected to be salary-caP-friend!J. Fans embrace Giamb1 at 
spring training complex 
TAMPA, Fla. -Jason Giambi quickly had his first signature moment of 2005. 
A little more than two hours after arriving at spring training Monday, he walked to the outfield end of the New York Yankees' dugout and stepped onto the field. 
How was he welcomed after an off­season filled with steroid allega­tions? 
With cheers and outstretched pens. 
There were several hundred peo­ple in the stands, and the line of fans waiting for his autograph snaked up through 16 rows of blue seats, then turned back toward home plate on the walkway dividing the lower and upper seetions of Legends Field. 
Tuesday, February 22, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
CLUB SPORTS 
Women's water polo sweeps weekend challengers 
Four oppo11ents fall to Mary's Equestrians competed Baron, Kclsny Ostbnrg and Irish will return to competi­end<~d early in a tough throe in a pair of' IllS/\ shows this Andrea Olivorio all in fourth tion on April 2. when thoy game matd1 with fifth s<wdIrish; equestrian team wookond at Taylor University. and Julia Burke at fifth. host the Clover Classie at Ball State. Despitn boating competes in shows at They clairnod third on Molly Schmiege took sixth in Gymnastics Miehiana. No. 22 Ball State in two ganws Saturday with 31 points and intnrmediatn f'onces, thn only Men's Volleyball during tlw regular snason tlwTaylor University f'inished at Hnservn High Point Irish ridPr to seore thnre. The men's volleyball team Irish could not pull ofT the on Sunday with 33 points. Caitlin Landuyt took another traveled to Northern Illinois quartorflnal victory. dropping
Special lO Tht• Observer 
These results all but guaran­first for thn Wflekend in inter­University this wnnkend to a tough throo gamo match 17­
Thn womnn's watnr polo toml the Irish will he erownnd mediate f'lat, with Clehsea wrap up thn seeond hall' of 25, 25-20, 11-15. Tho Irish rluh swPpt all four opponnnts Hegional champions and will Brown placing second. their conf'nre.nee regular sea­continuo tournanwnt play noxt this wenkPnd. dnfeating qualify for tlw Zones champi­Sehmiege was fourth. followed son and to compete in the con­wookond at Indiana Wnstnrn Mirhigan, 15-2 and onships. In Saturday's com­by Ana Hiehter and Catherine ference championship. Thn Univoristy, in tlw 32-t.nam Fastnrn Michigan, 15-1 on pntition, Caitlin Landuyt Linn in firth. Mary Dorgant Irish fnll to 0-H in conference lloosinr-lllini classic, the Saturday. Tlwy then toppod earrwd High Point honors as and !Iayden Piseal tind for play last year and were dntnr­biggnst tournamont of' tlw c;rand Vaii11Y State, 15-4 and thn day's top scorer anwng all second in noviee fenees, with rnined to rnturn to the upper yoar bof'oro thn national I·:astern Mil'l1igan 14-:{, in a teams. Mogan Murphy eoming in fif'th. nehelons of conf'en~nce play. championships in Man~h. rnrnatrh on Sunday. Thn dub Land uyt dai rned first in Murphy and Kristen LaSota They accomplished that and Skiing is pn• paring for its trip to Cal intnrmediate fenens, with shared first in novie<r l'lat, and more with a 6-3 conference Marquottn. Mieh. hostnd the San Bnrnardino. to rhallengn i\ndrna Oliverio corning in SI1C­Dorgant and Piscal tied for reeord and a strong tourna­regional skiing championships both tlw top dubs and some ond and Molly Sehminge sixth. third. Britany Gragg ended in ment showing. this wnnknnd, as both varsity varsity tnams in California. Landyut and Oliverio tied for fourth and Katy Hyan Iinishnd The Irish opened with a and dub tnams from 2:{ Women's Ice Hockey sneond in intermediate flat, fifth. (feather LaDue won swnep of Northnrn Illinois, 25-schools eompntnd to advanro 
In its last games of thn sna­with teammates Chelsea first in walk-trot-cantor, fol­20, 25-22, behind tlw strong to tho nationals. Notre Danw's son, tlw womnn's ien hoekny Brown third, Cathnrine Linn lowed by Katy Booth in fourth play of opposite hitter Mikn won111n l'inislwd ninth whiln rlub travnllld to Ann Arbor to f'ifth and Schrningn sixth. and Laura Hale l'il'th. Nicole Giampa. Tlwir next rnateh was the men took 12th in tlw liold. faeP the University of Claire Freeman posted a Gonsalves finished third in against University of' Illinois at Finishing in the top five in M i eh i g a n t h is w IHl k e n d . first in open f'lat to lead a walk-trot. Chieago, who extended the women's competition worn St. Ilnspitn Friday's 1J-O loss to the strong Irish seore as Katie Gymnastics Irish to three games. But the Olaf, Minnosota I>nluth, Wolvnrinns, tlw Irish wornnn Baron placed second, and The Irish gymnastics team Irish prevailed in the third Northnrn Michigan, Minnosota c~arnn out full of nrwrgy in Knlly Ostberg. Olivnrio and traveled to Bloomington to game to post a 25-23. 23-25, and Wisconsin. In nwn's tlwir game Saturday night, Molly Kopacz all tied for third. compete in Indiana's Big Hed 15-7 victory. The Irish then rosults, Michigan Tech, St. scoring 5 goals in thn <J-5 loss Baron also took sneond in Invitational this wnekend. l'inished their conferenen sea­Olaf's, Minnosota Dnluth, to Miehigan. In thnir last open fences. The Irish womnn wern Jed by son with a big win against Minnesota. and St. Thomas garnos for the tnarn, seniors Kristin LaSota. Marta Aseadi Caitlin O'Brien. who finished University of' Wisconsin­daimed tho top live sports. i\nnnmarin Kenrwdy and Tori and Megan Murphy all fin­first on floor, sixth on vault Milwauken, with a final scorn Daniollo Clements finished Blainny eaeh scored in thn ishnd first in their elass of and 11fth in all-around compn­of 25-18, 25-20. i\ vory strong 32nd in individual slalom first pnriod. with Blairwy noviee llat. with IIayden Piscal tition. Wendy Jo Svetanoff also rookie elass, including defen­standings, followed by loam­rilling in a sneond goal during third, Brittany Gragg fourth placed for the Irish, notching sive specialist John Tibbie, mates Lauren Dacey at 42nd, tlw sncond pnriod. Sophomorn and Laurnn Croall sixth. a l'if'th plaee finish on beam. setter Nolan Kane and outside Sarah Bauvonhorst at (>7th .Julia l.al'ointn addnd two Murphy also placed sixth in Also contributing for the Irish hitters Dan Zibton and Drow and Hita Morgan in 61Hh . goals to tlw nffort. Snnior Nnll noviee fnneos. Katy Booth women worn Mary Blazewiez, Williams eomplimented veter­Sonior eo-captain Jon Paynn Hyan lnd tho tllarn with her earnnd a seeond in walk-trot­Cecilia Torres and Cigi Low. ans like Giampa and middle turnod in tho mnn's host dnfensivn play, but in the nnd, canter, follownd by Laura llale Purdue, Indiana and Virginia hitters Dan Parziale, Jon slalom pnrformaneo, finishing Michigan was too denp and and Heather LaDue both in Toch took tho top three in O'Connell and Hyan Goes to 33rd. Brian Hodges was nnxt c~xperiencod for thn Irish. fifth. Nieoln Gansalvos elairned team standings. lead the tnam's turnaround. at 39th, with sonior co-eaptain Senior Captain i\ngnlina second in walk-trot. Brian Dunn and Paul Kane The Irish earnnd a fourth Bill Lnimkunhlor plaeing 57th. Znhrbach commended the In aetion Sunday, Katie were the lone Irish represon­place seed and first round bye Jason l.uncht 90th, and Al11x tnam for thnir performanee Baron garnered first in open tatives in men's competition, in the eonl'erenee tournarnnnt Gloeckner IJ3rd, in a field of' and intnnsity in both garnns. f'nnens. Claire Freeman whieh was won by Triton, with by upsntting three ranknd ovor ono hundred racers. Equestrian placed second in open flat, Purdue and Virginia Toch teams within thnir conference. This eoneludes tlw s11ason for 
Tlw Notro llamc1 and Saint with Molly Kopaez third, placing sneond and third. The The tournamnnt, howevnr, the Irish. 
""I do not run like a man who loses sight of the finish line. I do not tight as if l were shadowboxing." ( l Cor 9:26) 
vocation.nd~edu 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 
• Experience a premier
Summer Session Dates 
national university ranked a"best value" by U.S. News &

Early Session 
World Report.

May 23 -June 17 
8 Get your degree faster! Summer Session IJ 
• Take courses at the Lake
May 23 -July 1 
Shore and Water Tower Campuses near Chicago

Summer Session I) 
summer fun. 

July 5 -August 12 
Or, study abroad! 
Summer Session II Registration starts in February. June 6 -July 29 
1.800.262.2373 summer-sessions@luc.edu 
Apply online today! www.luc.edu/summerOS 
Preparing People to Lead Extraordinary l.ives 
LOYOLA 
~I'. ~ UNIVERSITY 
i;: ~CHICAGO 
>. 3· 

0 "' 
q>~At •p'i,\' 


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, February 22, 2005 
Belles 
continued from page 20 

"The seniors have remem­bered," she said. 
Last year, the Belles entered the MIAA tournament with a 2­12 league record. This year, the team tripled its conference wins, going 6-10, and kept almost every game close. 
Belles head coach Suzanne Bellina is confident in the team's ability to play with the Knights. 
"We're a much better team all around [than we were last year]," she said. 
Bellina also noted that the Saint Mary's will be stronger defensively with Boyce, the 2003-2004 MIAA defensive player-of-the-year, starting for the Belles against Calvin. 
Boyce missed the team's most recent contest against Calvin with an injury, and was also unable to play against the Knights in last year's tourna­ment game. 
The entire Belles defense will have to play well against Calvin's efficient offense for Saint Mary's to have a chance on the road against the MIM's No.3 seed. 
The Knights' Lisa Winkle is second in the MIAA in scoring, averaging 15.9 points a game, and leads the league in rebounds, with nearly eight per contest. Bellina stressed that the Belles will have to stay aggres­sive on the defensive boards to prevent Winkle from getting second chances. 
Calvin's Kristen McDonald poses a second offensive threat, as she ended the regular season averaging 12.8 points per game, good for sixth in the MIAA. 
To counter Calvin's top scor­ers, Bellina said the Belles would switch in and out of "two or three looks" on defense. 
As for Bush, she is confident that a solid defensive perform­ance against Calvin's post play­ers can get Saint Mary's into the second round with what would be a major upset over Calvin. 
"They have some of the best posts in the league, but I really think our team has some of the best players in the league," she said. "With a huge defense effort, we should be able to come out with a victory." 
For the Belles, it would be an especially satisfying victory. 
The game can be heard live on Calvin's on-line radio station, at calvin.edu/sports, starting at 7:30. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu 
.­
ERIN V Observer 
Belles forward Emily Creachbaum looks for an open teammate during the team's two-point loss to Alma on Feb. 12. 
Gorski 
continued from page 20 
of four available scholar­ships when practice starts in August. 
"The coaches said I have a shot at earning a scholar­ship," Gorski said. "I just have to prove I can be in the mix." 
Weis made it clear that Brady Quinn will be the starter. But the backup job is up for grabs with David Wolke, Darrin Bragg, Sharpley and Gorski all com­peting. 
Gorski, who scored a 32 on his ACT, drew recruiting interest from Notre Dame and Nebraska as well as various Division I-AA and Division II schools. 
"I had my list narrowed down to Notre Dame, Nebraska and Princeton," Gorski said. He mentioned that the recent coaching change at Notre Dame made his decision more difficult. 
"I really had no idea if the new coaching staff would be interested in me," Gorski said. "But my dad sent in my film and coach Cutcliffe liked what he saw." 


A member of the varsity at Creighton Prep since his soph­omore year, Gorski split time with other quarterbacks until gaining sole possession of the starting job as a senior. He threw for 1,203 yards, eight touchdowns and nine inter­ceptions while winning a state championship. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Ellis' school record of 200. The 88 points were the most yield­ed by the Irish this season. 
The 14-point defeat was the biggest since a 14-point loss to Providence last season at the Joyce Center. 
CONNECTICUT 88 NOTRE DAME 74 at the HARTFORD CIVIC CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (16-8, 8-6) 
Cornette 0-3 0-0 0, Francis 4-R 7-9 15, Thomas 6-15 2-2 16, Quinn 5-10 0-0 12, Falls 6-12 1-3 19. lsrPal 0-1 0-1 0, Cornett 1-1 2-2 4. Kurz 0-0 0-0 0. Latimore 4-8 0-0 8, Carter 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 26-58 12-17 7 4 .. 
CONNECTICUT (18-6, 10-3) 
Villanueva 9-14 6-7 25, Gay 2-7 2-2 6, Brown 7-14 2-4 18, Boone 4-6 1-2 9, Williams 7-16 3-4 17, Armstrong 1-2 0-0 2, Thompson 0-0 0-0 0, Knllogg 3-4 2-2 
9. Nelson 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 34-64 16-21 
R8.  
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  33  42  74  
Connecticut  45  43  R8  

:~-point goals: Notre Dame 10-22 (Falls 6-1 0, Thomas 2-4, Quinn 2-5, Cornet!ll 0-3), Connecticut 4-9 (Brown 2-3. Villanueva 1-1, Kellogg 1-2, Williams 0­3). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 26 (Isreal 6), Connecticut 43 (Williams 9). Assists: : Notre Dame 10 (Thomas 5), Connecticut 20 (Williams 12). Total fouls: Notre Dame 17, Connecticut 17. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


45.5 percent (10-22) on 3­pointers. 
The Irish had four players in double figures -Chris Thomas (16 points), Chris Quinn (12), Falls (19) and Francis (15). The rest of the team scored a combined 12 points. 
Jordan Cornette was held scoreless, but had four blocks and now has 197 for his career as he closes in on LaPhonso 

Tennis 
continued from page 22 
both nationally-ranked play­ers. Freshman Sheeva Parbhu has held onto the fourth spot in singles, and Bayliss has seen strong performances from sophomores Ryan Keckley and Irackli Akhvlediani and juniors · Eric Langenkamp and Patrick Buchanan while filling out the last two spots. 

"At the beginning of the year we were concerned with win­ning in the top part of the line­up," Bayliss said. "(Now] we're not really afraid of people at the top." 
The team counted on the bot­tom of the singles lineup for crucial points, but also found salvation in doubles play. 
"The doubles have been improving," said Bayliss. "We didn't get the doubles point 
Huskies 
continued from page 20 
back to 12 points or more. 

Falls came into the game in a slump, making 6-for-28 prior to Monday night. He led the Irish long-distance shooters with a 6-for-1 0 effort from behind the arc against the Huskies. Overall the Irish shot 
against Northwestern -it may be important against Michigan State." 
Play in East Lansing will present a few specific problems for the Irish. The team arrived early and had an 8 p.m. prac­tice time on Spartan courts Monday night. 
"There are a couple of issues we're concerned about with this match," Bayliss said. "Michigan State's improved; they have some freshmen that are good and they have a win over· Arkansas which was ranked No. 19 at the time." 

The Spartans have proven they can win tough matches, and winning in East Lansing isn't easy for visitors. 
"Their courts are fast and at times it's hard to pick up the ball there," Bayliss said. "Adjusting to the speed and the lights in the background are all things we need to take care 
f,

0. 
Bayliss thinks the doubles point will be crucial in the away match. . 
"When you're on the road and everyone's crowd is in your face, if you can quiet them down by winning doubles ... that can really make a dif­ference," he said. 
The teams will square off at 4 p.m. in East Lansing. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Evenings of Prayer from Around the World 
Experience authentic prayerandmeditation as part ofa series exploring the beliefandpractices ofthe world's great faith traditions. 
JEWISH PRAYER 

Rabbi Steven Leapman, Temple Beth-El Wednesday, February 23 6:30pm 330 Coleman-Morse 
The Dome yearboob is tabing applications in the following departments: 
Seaio.. sectioa Canapus Life Yea...ia·Review Spo:rts Acadenaics Pbotog:rapby 
o..gaaizations Tecbaology 
Sponsored by: Campus Hlnlstzy JntematlonalStudent SeTJiices 8:Activities Graduate Student lfnion 

Next year the Dome celebrates its centennial. Be part of the staH of this special edition. E-mail Dome@nd.edu 
Tuesday, February 22, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
DILBERT 
HAVE TO DO A CREDIT CHECK ON YOUR COMPANY BEFORE WE DO ANY WORK. ITS OUR POLICY. 


ACORNS? 


CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 

SCOTT ADAMS 
E --------------"1~ -------------­
~ I RESENT THAT! JUST ~ 
g ~ 
I DIDN'T 

@) BECAUSE I'M A SMALL ~ 
MEAN TO DO YOU

~ BUSINESSMAN, THAT oi 
IMPLY... KNOW IF

i DOESN'T MEAN I'M A c 
THE PARK­

~ DEADBEAT! i 
ING GARAGE 
ACCEPTS 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JJ~l1&1lE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KARCC
I j
I I r () 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
WYLLO 
j
I I r (] 

tKROMES t 
WHE:N THE: TAIL-OR. 
MADE: A SUIT FOR.
I J I J 
THE: MOBSTE:R., HE: 
www.jumble.com 
SAID IT WAS--­
I POURRA j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I ri I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

"( I I I I J" rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: FLAME YOKEL EULOGY FROTHY Answer: What the farmer gave the hired hands-A "LOFTY" GOAL 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 32 Winter warmer 66 Pertaining to an arm bone

1 Nasty habits 34 Discover 67 You can get a
6 Homes for 35 Paid respect to bang out of ithermanos y 38 A cheap way to 
hermanas 68 Data processing 
fly command11 "Dracula" 42 Kisses in Castile 

creature 69 coil 
44 W.W. II 
(electrical14 Blaze of glory conference site 

device)15 African wader 
45 Daffy-nition, 16 Emissions part 2 DOWNwatchdog: Abbr. 
50 For example 1 American 17 See 29-Across 51 No in 

Legion member 19 Dollop Nuremberg 
2 Rocks at the 20 Redder, as a 52 Cambodian bar tomato 
currency 3 Like much office 21 Empire State work
53 Eight: Prefix 
Building style 54 Ballroom dance 

4 Option at a fast­23 Butcher's cut 
57 Chutzpah food restaurant 25 Bigheads 59 U.S./Eur. divider 5 "That's enough!" 
27 Repeat so End of the 6 Pay with plastic
performance? daffy-nition 

7 Feel bad 28 Semicircle 64 Runner 
8 Results of dives Sebastian29 Beginning of a 9 Mimic 

daffy-nition of 65 Old sporty 17-Across Toyota 10 Separate into whites and ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE darks, e.g. 11 Beautify
A w AIR o sIc o M p ccrs P 0 Til 0 N 0 B 0 E A"IJ:i'rr 
12 Military IR 
OIAID w A R R I 0 R ME~ 
helicopter 13 No-nos 18 High-schooler 22 Durbin of 
Hollywood 23 Young woman 24 Killer whale 26 Barn bird 29 Many a time

rN'rr ROo E s H 0 TIGIUINI E~'o c y A N IE s TJA T E 30 Cereal grain 
DEr,;r 
HAMS 
S 
T 
YILIEIDI 
31 Area of land 

_._.__ 

33 Classical 45 Not broken up 53 Little egg Flemish painter 
46 Formulator of 55 Copy, as a film 36 Inexact fig. 
the law of 
56 New York City 37 Lintel support universal archbishopgravitation
39 Perceives 58 Drubbing 47 Shrinking _
40 Troublemaker 61 Golf's Elder 
48 Desire strongly swing on a string 
41 Something to 62 Mule of song 
49 A Baldwin 63 Large time 43 Lanka brother piece? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. · 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Charlollc Church. 19: Jennifer Love llcwiu. 
26: Kelsey Grammer, 50: Tync Daly, 59 

Happy Birthday: You have to accept change in order to move ahead this year. Once you discover how lo hecomc as adaplahlc as possihlc. nolhing will deter you from following the path you have wanled lo lake your whole life. This is a year of I rue confessions, a time lo own up to your faults and shortcomings and to focus on your atlrihutcs and what you know in your hear! you can do well. Your numbers arc 3, 5, IH. 20. 24.41 ARIES (Murch 21-A11ril 19): Things should he looking up for you, und if you Hf<' quick to take care or business and acl on your impulses, you will discover I hal life really isn't that had. In fuel. you are lucky lo he who you arc. Romance is in 1he pic1urc. 
***** 

TAURUS (April 20-Mny 20): You have the inclinalion to do somelhing grcallmlay, but expect ohslades to slow you Jown. Don't gel frustrated; instead, focus.on what's really important to you. There is a time and place for everything. •• GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): Love will he on your mind. Don'ljusl sil there wailing for someone else to make I he firs! move. Be hravc und speak up. hul choose your words wisely. An opportunity lo make a personal change will rcsuli in more conlidcncc and compliments. •••• CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): You may feel like jumping inlo somelhing new hul check the situation out first and you will reach higher goals !han you imagined. It's lime to get creative and lake whatever mailers lo you to the nexl level. Professional change will he favorahlc. ••• LEO (,July 23-Aug. 22): You'll have a lcrrilic oullook, but nol everyone will agree with what you want lo do, especially ahoUI making changes al home. Usc diplomacy and let others lhink they came up wilh the idea. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): You lhink thai everyone is oul to gel you when really it's you who is holding you hack. This isn'l the day In sil around and lwiddle your thumbs. Take action and sec how much you can accomplish. hul don't ncglccl someone you love. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): There arc so many people who need help, and although you can't help them all. you can do your hesl to do your part. You will meet someone who can change your life if you participate in something !hat you feel passionate about. Be progressive, nol angry. ••** SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your head is screwed on slraight, so don'! lei anyone tell you differently. You may not feel greal about whal you have to do, hut 1hc fact that you have the courage to lilllow through with whal you know is righl will he prove to lake you a lot further. •• SAGITTARillS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): You have everything you need to do whal you want, so don't let negativity or someone who is constantly pulling you down dcler you from moving forward. Make up your own mind and don'! look hack. ••••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-,Jan. 19): You will feel more rcsponsihilily if you lei someone dump his or her duties in your lap. Careful --don't get angry, or mailers will escalate. A calm, patienl approach will cnahlc you to 1um things around, giving you the freedom to do what is necessary. ••• AQUARilJS (.Jan. 20-Fch. 1!1): Relationships will he on your mind. You may have to make a decision as to whether you want lo continue to sec someone. Don'! rememher just lhc good. People don't change, and you will prohahly he disappointed if you hacktraek now. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have plenty on your mind and lots to get done today. The hcsl approach will he to go il alone ami delve in relentlessly unlit you lin ish whal you start. Satisfaction will result if you follow your hear! and do whal's righl for 
you. *** 

Birthday Baby: You arc sensilivc, loving and a hil of a show-orr when you wanl alieni ion. You do well in lhc spotlighl and have a lol of crealivc flair. You arc exceptionally inluitivc. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at a.uroadvice.com and t'IIRellialast.com. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
-
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ___________________________________ 
City ____________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, February 22, 2005 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hartford Center heartbreak 


By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
When Notre Dame beat Connecticut at the Joyce Center three weeks ago, the surprise was the Irish big men outplaying the Huskies. 
Monday night's performance by the Connecticut big men was no surprise at all. 
The lluskies dominated the Irish (16-8, 8-6 Big East) on the glass and in the paint in an 88-74 win at the Hartford Civic Center. 
Connecticut (18-6, 10-3) started cleaning up the rebounds from the start. The team had a 25-12 rebounding edge at the half and increased it to 43-26 by the end of the game. 
Irish fall to Huskies in crucial conference road game 
Team faces improving Spartans 
Huskies forward Charlie Villanueva tied a career high with 25 points, Josh Boone added nine points and eight rebounds and point guard Marcus Williams played solid­ly at both ends of the court with 17 points, 12 assists and nine rebounds. In two games against the Irish this season, Williams has a combined 28 assists. 
In Notre Dame's 78-74 win on Jan. 30, Tarin Francis and Dennis Latimore combined for 31 points and 16 rebounds en route to leading the Irish to a 38-20 scoring advantage in the paint against the Huskies. Francis and Latimore did combine for 23 points and nine rebounds Monday night, but the disparity was much greater as the Huskies mus-
By KATE GALES Spons Writer 
The 5-2 win over North­western this weekend was decnptively close. With strong performances at the top of the lineup, however, the No. 23 Irish pulled out a scrappy but solid victory over the Wildcats on Friday. 
. But there was no time for Notre Dame to relish the vic­tory over its regional rival. The Irish hit the courts at the South Bend Hacquet. Club in order to prepare for a match in the foreign territory belonging to today's opponent, Michigan State. 
"Our guys practiced over 
fOOTBALL RECRUITING 

the weekend," eoach Bobby Bayliss said. "I think we're ready to go." 
The team has compiled a 9­2 record this season behind the dependable play of a deep and talented lineup. Senior eo-captain Brent D'Amico recently moved into the top spot in singles, and Bayliss is pleased with his performance as a leader on the courts. 
"Brent D'Amico's play has been better than it's ever been," Bayliss said. "He's playing the best tennis he's ever played for us." 
D'Amico has been bolstered by the play of sophomores Stephen Bass and Barry King, 
see TENNIS/page 18 



cled their way to dominance underneath the hoop. 
The Huskies came out hot, but the Irish were able to keep pace behind the outside shooting of Colin Falls. The sophomore made his third 3­pointer at the 10:57 mark of the first half to get the Irish within one at 22-21. 
Then the Huskies opened up a double-digit lead with a 13­4 run and went into the locker room up 45-32. 
The Irish started the second half with a quick s~o run to get within eight. A frustrating pattern then developed as the Irish would trim the lead to that margin, before the Huskies would use quick runs of their own to push the lead 
see HUSKIES/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles look for first .win against Calvin 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
The Belles don't need to look at the record bQoks to know their history with Calvin College. 
For six of Saint Mary's nine players, tonight's first-round matchup with the Knights is an opportunity to get revenge for a game that is still fresh in their minds. 
A year ago, the Belles strug­gled to a last-place finish in the MIAA and faced Calvin in Grand Rapids, Mieh. to start the league tournament. The Knights ran up and down the court on Saint Mary's, crushing the Belles, 82­48. 
For seniors Katie Boyce, Maureen Bush, Emily Creachbaum and Deirdre Mangan, tonight's game marks the last time they will have the chance to redeem themselves against Calvin, which has beat­en Saint Mary's graduating class all nine times the two have played. 
Bush said that the Belles are "always pretty motivated when we play Calvin," but that this game means more because of last year's contest. 
see BELLES/page 18 

Creighton Prep quarterback accepts team's offer to walk on 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Even after he led his Omaha Creighton Prep football squad to the state championship last fall, Dan Gorski's teammates are making fun of him. 
"[Nebraska tight end recruit] 
Zach Potter is calling me' 
Leprechaun'," Gorski said. "A 

lot of them wanted me to go to Nebraska." 
Instead of choosing the in­state Huskers, Gorski accepted an offer to walk on as a quar­terback at Notre Dame next fall. He joins scholarship recruit Evan Sharpley as one of two quarterbacks added to the Irish roster this off-season. 
Gorski's mother is a Saint Mary's graduate while his 
father is a Notre Dame Law School alum. One of his sisters is a current junior at Notre Dame, and another graduated from the University last year. 
"It's a dream come true," Gorski said. "I've been a life­long fan and my family was really exeited. My sister was screaming." 
Irish quarterbacks coach David Cutcliffe was also happy with the decision that the first­team all-state quarterback made last Saturday. 
"When I told him I was com­ing he jumped up with a big smile on his face and shook my hand," Gorski said. 
Irish head coach Charlie Weis was not around for Gorski's announcement, but before he left to catch a flight he gave the 
4.0 student some advice. 
"Ile said that if I didn't know within half an hour if this was the place, then it wasn't the place for me," Gorski said. "lie's a big NO guy and I'm the type of guy he's looking for." 
Gorski will be on campus starting June 18 and will train with his new teammates this summer. He hopes to win one 
see GORSKI/page 18 

CLUB SPORTS 
LLI 
u Women icers lose 
z to Michigan twice
:3 
= After losing to the Wolverines 9-0 on
c:::c 
Friday, the Irish fell!; again Saturday, 9-5. 

I page 17 
I 
I 
I 
I < 
I 
~ 
I· 
PG.A TOUR 
NBA 

MLB 
NA. 
NASCAR 

Scott wins Nissan 
Trade deadline 

Bonds set to 
Titans release six 
Gordon living in 

Open for title 
approaches 

return to Giants 
players 
the fast lane 

The golfer won at 
The Timberwolves are 

Facing questions about 
Looking. to slash $27 
The NASCAR super-

Riviera in a playoff after 
among teams looking to 

steroid use, the slugger 
million from the roster, 
star notched 70 career 

36 holes of the rain-
will make his annual 
make a move before 

the Titans released sev­
wins en route for four 

soaked event. 
Thursday's deadline. 

"State-of-Barry" speech. 
era! key players. 
season championships. 
page 16 
page 15 
page 14 

page 14 
page 12 








