
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 108 FRIDAY, MARCH 18,2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

College Park busted for third year 
Police stop St. Patrick's Day party 
About 60 to 75 students wore
By KATE ANTONACCI 

detained in one of the apartment units
and MADDIE HANNA 

until each student presented a legal
Associate News Editors 

identification with proof of age to an ollicer. Several breathalyzer tests were also conducted.
For the third straight year, local 

The St. Joseph County Police, though
police agencies busted a large student 

not giving out citations for minor in
St. Patriek's Day party at the College 

consumption, waited outside the unit
Park apartmP.nt complex Thursday. 

for crowd control purposes, several
The Indiana State Excise Police 

on-site otlicers said. 
issued citations to four students at the 

St. Joseph County Police said apart­
18027 Bulla Road apartment complex, 

ment 18027 was the largest, loudest
district 1 excise Lt. Greg Deitchley 

and most crowded unit. Deitchley saidsaid. 
the excise police decided to enter
One malo was cited for both minor 

18027 as opposed to other College
in eonsumption and for presenting an 

Park units after establishing probable
officer with a false identification, 

cause to break up the party.
Dnitehlny said. 

"We do a series of things to establish
Threo othor individuals were cited 

probable cause," said Deitchley. "Oncfl
for minor in consumption, but no cus­

Wfl got there, we verified we had prob­
todial arrests were made, Deitchley 
able cause."
said. 

Deitehley said the Indiana State
The exeise police arrived at College 

Excise Police was not called in by the
Park in six unmarked vehiclos and entered tho complex at approximately 6:30p.m. see BUST/page 4 
Above, students attending the party at 18027 College Parkflood the balcony. At right, police officers aid in checking student IDs.
•

PHOTOS BY 

RICHARD FRIEDMAN 

Sytnposiutn to debate vvotnen in battles 
tho Saint Mary's women's through noxt Wednesday, fea­Astrid Henry said. "We By MEGAN O'NEIL 
studies program is hosting a tures several women's studies thought it was a very timely S~inr Mary'~ Editor 
week-long symposium entitled scholars and feminist artists and important subjeet." "Wo nw n. War, and Poace: and is focusHd on the role of The wnek of events of'lieially 
In this tirno of world eon-Feminist. lntMvontions in a wonwn in situations of arnwd began Tuesday with a lecture 1'1 iet, 1: on seion tio us Saint Tirnn of Conlliet" in eonjunc­eonllid.. given by Cynthia Enloe, a Mary's studonts may wondnr tion with Womnn's llistory "It scorned like an appropri­feminist author and professor what tlwir rolos as women in Month. ate theme given what is going at Clark University. Enloe dis-a troublod socinty should Lw. The third annual women's on in the world," women's To hl'lp answer this question, symposium, which will run studies dopartment chair see WOMEN/page 8 





Laetare 
•


vv1nner named 
Murray to be honored for milestone surgery 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associate News Editor 
Dr . .Josnph E. Murray, tlw first surgtHJil to ptlrl'orm a suecpssful organ transplant 51 years ago, has been chosnn to roceivn tlw University's 2005 l.antare Medal. 
"Human lives and hopos have been wonder­fully invigor­ated hy .Joseph Murray's 1954 mndieal 


t r i u m p h . " Murray University Prnsidnnt Fatlwr Edward Malloy said in a press nlleasn. "Tiw genius. orudition and skill lw brought to boar in tlw surgical arena ar11 all gifts l'rom God which this good doc.tor has made gills to humankind." 
Tlw University sPinetod Murray for his dnnp Catholic faith and his many contributions to seinnee. lin sureessl'ully transplantnd a donated kidney fmm onn brother to anotlwr on Dne. 23, 1954. In 11)(,2, Murray pnrfornwd tlw first stu:rnssful kidntly transplant using a kid­rwy from a donor unrPiatPd to the patinnt. For tlw dnvPiop­mnnts made in lili'saving organ and tissue transplant tneh­niquns, hn won the Nohnl PrizP for Physiology or Medicirw in IIJIJO. 
"I>r. Murray's vision of mndi­dne as a nwans to s1wvu otlwrs, and his denp faith in (;od madn him an nxenllnnt. eandidatn. I lis faith is what providns tho eon­tnxt for his work and has shaped his lifo," said Fat.lwr l'ntnr Jarrnt, eounsnlor· to tlw l'rosidnnt. 
The award is mnant t.o rneog­nizn thn contributions of mnn and womnn whosu fait.h mwr­gizns thnir work, .Jarmt said. 
see LAETARE/page H 


Students snap up internships as setnester ticks dow-n 
Summer spots seen as vital for careers 
By KATIE LAIRD 
News Writer 
As the snnwstnr begins to wind down and summer approaches, many students ar·n Sllltrehing for internship 
opportunities and using the various rosourees tho Care11r Centnr has to offer. 
Susanne Thorup, managnr of internship dcvelopmen t at tho Careor Center, works closely with students from all eollegos to help them find internships that best suit tlwm. 
"llnternshipsl provido good exposure in a tleld to soe is it's really what you want to do," she said. 
In addition to resume writing tips, praetiee interviows and internship workshops. the Career Center has many online resources to make applying for internships aecnssible to stu­dents. Two popular resources are Go Irish and Nacelink Global, which provide listings of internships by city, major, eompany and various other faetors. 
Caitlin Leiva, a junior 

accounting major, is currently studying abroad with the London Program. Leiva learned in fall that she had receivfld a summer internship with the accounting Iirrn Ernst & Young in San Francisco. 
"I think it will be a good ehanee for me to soe if accounting really is the thing for me," Leiva said. "I am exeited about the ehance to get some real world experionee and hopPfully makn sonw good eonnnetions in tlw proenss." 
Ll'iva said shn usPd resources at thn Carner Cnntnr to help her writP a resunw and searched (;o Irish to lwl p her find tlw Ernst & Young posi­tion. 
"Overall, lthe Car·nm Ctml.!lr( is usd'trl for finn tuning things and getting the ball rolling, but 
see SUMMER/page 6 
Friday, March 18, 2005 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A universal accessory 

Up until last week, I think I was the last person in America not to own a cell phone. 
What once was reserved for doc­tors on call or lawyers appearing in court has now , . 
become a univer-Megan 0 Nell sal accessory. Even elemen­
Saint Mary's

tary school chil­
Editor

dren have them now. When I was 12 the big thing was pleading with your parents until they folded and let you get your ears pierced. My little sister, a sixth grader, is work­ing on getting herself a new Nokia. 
My aversion to cell phones stemmed first from my remarkable pension for losing things. Rare is the day that I walk out the door with everything I need, and I regu­larly forget things behind in class­rooms, the dining hall, my car, you name it. Why should I add a mobile to my already overstuffed shoulder bag? 
But more significantly, people with cell phones are annoying, and sometimes even dangerous. 
Take my experience in the park­ing lot Wednesday as an example. I was pulling into Angela at Saint Mary's when a girl whipped around the corner and nearly hit me. Needless to say, she had a cell phone plastered to her ear. 
Or how about when you are hanging out with a friend or acquaintance and they receive a call? Nothing makes you feel less weleome than standing awkwardly by while they chat away for 20 minutos. 
My dad, a professor in California, says he has watched the cell phone become a type of security blanket. Now, when students gather outside his room before class they don't compare homework or socialize. They stand off by themselves and grip their cells. 
All this, and I haven't even touched on the issue of drunk dial­ing yet. 
Why then, if the evils of the cell phone are so apparent to me, did I make a visit to a Verizon mobile store during spring break? 
My fall had to do mostly with my new job at The Observer. I am rarely in my dorm room during the day and colleagues have to be able to get ahold of me. 
Furthermore, giving your cell­phone number to a new acquain­tance of the opposite sex is much more comfortable than giving him your room or home number. Indeed, the home number is a great test of his interest-the guy must really like you if he is willing to brave talking to your mom­yet it undoubtably reduces the number of dates your are going to get. Who wants to risk that? 
Lastly, it is a matter of conven­ience. If you are at Target and for­get what brand of-oh, excuse me. My cell phone is ringing. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the'author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei090 7@saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, rec­ognize char we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST THING ABOUT Sr. PATRICK'S DAY? 



Lara Canham  Nick Albares  Katie Zackel  
freshman Pangborn  freshman Alumni  junior Badin  
"My glow-in­the-dark green ring. ,,  "Losing my prospect."  "Watching friends hit on Hooters waitresses."  

Police charge man for flashing with banana 
GREENWICH,Conn.-A former Stamford police offi­cer has been charged with lewd conduct involving a toy banana. Arthur Bertana, 62, who had been on probation for lewd conduct more than four years ago, was arrested Saturday after police said he placed a toy banana in his pants and flashed people. 
Bertana would allegedly greet passersby on the busy street while trying to draw attention, Petrone said. At times, he placed a bag in front of his pants, then moved it and show the bulge, he said. 
"It was a yellow, plush, child's toy banana," Petrone said. "It had a smiley face on it." 
Man climbs water tower for 'tranquility' 
SEELYVILLE, Ind. ­Police officers arrested a man who said he climbed atop the town's water tower in search of "tranquility." 
Town Marshal Derek Cerny said police were called Wednesday night about a person climbing the tower, which is at least 200 feet high. 
"When I arrived, I saw the subject climbing over the top portion, the very top, of 


the water tower," Cerny said. 
The climber, Shane Kirmse, 36, of Seelyville, had gone over a barbed wire fence to get to the tower in the town about five miles east of Terre Haute and at one point was lean­ing against the blinking red light at its peak, Cerny said. 
Kirmse told the Tribune­Star of Terre Haute that he climbed the tower "to get away from everyday life and people. It was my tranquility place." He also did it "for the woman I love." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Katie Lancos Derrick Testa Erica Wells 
junior freshman freshman 
Badin Alumni Pangborn 
"Making green "Forgetting that "/ don't have eggs and green I have any anything pancakes. " classes appropriate to tomorrow. " tell you." 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 0::: 
IJ.I 
:::1: 
!cC 
IJ.I 
3: 
..... 
ct 
(.) 



0 
HIGH 48 HIGH 41
..... 
LOW 38 LOW 27 

HIGH LOW 

36 20 



IN BRIEF 

The conference "Building Peace Through Interreligious Encounters" will take place from 9 a.m. to 
7:30 p.m. today in C-103 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The conference is sponsored by the Kroc Institute's Program in Religion, Conflict and Peacebuilding. 
Pianists Emanuel Ax and Yefim Bronf'man will perform a dual recital tonight from 8 
p.m. to 10 in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Center for the PPrforming Arts. Tickets ean be pur­chased at the box office for $48, $38 for faculty and staff, $36 for seniors and $15 for students. 
The class of 2006 will host "The Emerald Ball" tonight from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. at The Riverside Terrace. The for­mal event will include danc­ing, food and a cash bar. 
Saint Mary's will host Midnight Madness tonight from 7 p.m. to 12 a.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. The event will include intramural finals, games and raffles. 
Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls will jointly sponsor a Winter Carnival on North Quad Saturday from 2 p.m. to 4. The event is open to all stu­dents and faculty. 
The band Stroke 9, famed for the 1999 hit "Little Black Backpack," will play at Legends at 10 p.m. Saturday. 
To submit information .to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

friday, March I 8, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Club hosts InFocus conference 
Asian-American Association's event to focus on generation gap 
Hy STEVE KERINS 
News Wri1cr 
Today and tomorrow, the Notre Damn Asian-American Association (AAA) will nxplore bridging the gap betweon generations in workshops and presenta­tions at their fourth annual lnFoeus eonferenee. 
"!The conference's format! is kind of similar every year," AAA member Eddie Yu said. "But every year it's a difTorent theme. This year Ithe theme, "Generations: Bridging the Gap"l deals with family perspeetives within the eul­ture itself, with Father Edward Malloy is same time I had my parents' scheduled to deliver an Korean culture," he said. opening speech at 10 a.m., "(At times! it was kind of and his introductory tough communicating." remarks will b11 followed by Applicability to a broad 
a  series  of  ·  range of Asian  
:-vo.rkshops,. fh1s years workshops and  "Growing up, I kind ofhad American  cultures is also among the con­ference's goals.  
presentations include "Core Family: Parents and Progeny,"  culture, and at the same time I had my parents' Korean  Yu said the events feature speakers from a variety of back­ 
"Cross-Cultural  culture."  grounds,  and  
Awareness:  that the publici­ 
Sessions Frank  with Wu,"  Eddie Yu  ty posters for the conference  
"The  Notre  AAA member  feature  scenes  

"I feel like a lot of
our parents ... I Dating: feel like a lot of it is understanding Understanding it's about under­parents and the Viewpoints" standing parents and "Changing
progeny."

and prognny." Dynamics: The 
The eonfer­Asian-American enee will open Eddie Yu Experience." tonight at 7 p.m. The "Changing
AAA member 

Dame Family: 
Perspectives of Asian Alumni," "Interracial 
in the LaFortunn 
Ballroom with a pn~sPntation by keynote speaker Frank Wu, Dean of Wayne State University Law Sehool. Wu will address issues of' eross­cultural awareness, includ­ing injustices arising from racial inequality. A sereen­ing of the rilm ABCJ> will fol­low the ledure. 
Saturday's ev1mts will be hold in the Coleman-Morse Cnnter. University President 
Dynamics" 
workshop, 
facilitated by Daren Mooko, will examine the ef'feets of' Ameriean cul­tural influence on Asian­Americans. 
Yu cited the need for work­shops to address specific issues · facing Asian­Amerh~ans today, specifically issues rnlating to this year's trans-generational theme. 
"Growing up, I kind of had American eulture, and at the from many cul­
tures as well. 
"I feel that it's valid to all the cultures," he said. "I don't think it favors any one of them ... it kind of encom­passes all of them." 
• Hegistration for the confer­ence is $7, and lunch, activi­ties, and the lnFocus Banquet at 6:30 p.m. in the Mendoza Atrium are all ineluded. Tho eonference will conclude with the ban­quet, featuring a talk by pro­fessor Bradley Malkovsky of the Notre Dame Theology Department and his wife Mariam. Saturday's events draw to a elose with Bhangra Bash, a celebration featuring Indian food and music at 10 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 




Jenkins appoints alu111 as executive assistant 
Special to the Observer 
Frances Shavers, a 1990 Notre Dame graduate who previously served in the Notre Dame athletic department and Alumni Association, will return to the 
University to serve as executive assistant to President ­elect Father John Jenkins. 
Currently manager 

of the Shavers Community Education Academy at the University of Southern California, Shavers will begin her new duties at Notre Dame on April 27. 
"Frances is an extraordinar­ily talented individual with equally impressive interper­sonal skills," Jenkins said. "She has a deep understand­ing of and appreciation f'or Notre Dame, and I eould not be any more pleased that she has accepted our invitation to return to her alma mater and serve on my administrative team." 
After earning her bachelor's degree in sociology, Shavers worked for two years with the Aetna Life and Casualty Co. in Dallas and Buffalo, N.Y. She returned to Notre Dame in January 1992 to serve as director of alumni clubs and student programs in tho University's Alumni Assoeiation. Iler responsibili­ties included supervision of the activities and programs of the University's student-alum­ni group and serving as liaison between Notre Dame and its network of more than 100 alumni clubs nationwide. 
Shavers was appointed the first coordinator of the Notrn Dame athletic department's Life Skills Program in 1996. Under her direction, the pro­gram created academic, per­sonal and career support pro­gramming for the more than 700 Irish student-athletes, and has since been recognized as a model within intercollegiate athletics. 
At USC, Shavers was respon­sible for ovf~rseeing a collabo­ration of the university's major educational outreach initia­tives. She facilitatfld communi­cation among various pro­grams, developnd program­ming that integrated snrvices and managed the academy's strategic planning process. 
Shavers began work on her master's and doctoral dogrnos in 199H in tho Graduate School of Education at Harvard University. She earned her master's a year later in administration, plan­ning and social policy and completed her doetorate last year in tho same field with a coneentration in higher educa­tion. 

Mini-Golf Bonanza  Free Pizza and Subs  
Benefiting ALS Research March 19, 2005  Great Prizes: i-Pod i-Pod Docking Station  
9:00p1D to 12:30aiD Stepan Center  Digital Camera i-Shuffie and much, much more!  

Note: TVs on location will be playing NCAA Basketball 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Friday, March 18, 2005 



Bust 
continued from page 1 
St. Joseph County Police Department, but was patrolling the north South Bend area as a precautionary measure due to past St. Patrick's Day incidents. 
"We had cars up in that area around Turtle Creek, College Park and also Lafayette Square," Deitchley said. "We had extra people out because of 
activities of the past two St. Patrick's Days." 
Last year, St. Joseph County Police arrested six students at College Park and one was taken to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center after falling from a bal­cony. The previ­ous year, a stu­dent also fell 
from a balcony at a larger party, though no arrests were made. 
Officers from the Mishawaka Police Department and Roseland Police Department were also at scene this year, but did not enter the College Park complex. 
Patti Russwurm, property manager of College Park, said no extra security was brought to the complex for St. Patrick's Day despite the history of busts and accidents. 
"I just sent out an email 

Poker Chips from $4.95/50 Texas Hnlrtt:>rn from $199.97 Poker Tables from $299.00 
Rentals Available 

Large 
Selection 
of Game ·~ 
Tables, 
Supplies 
and Table ~ 
:frsutt\.'~~

Toppers. 
SOS10 St. Rd. 933N • South Bend 

574-272-1617 
reminding the residents to be safe and [that] there are no more than eight people allowed on the balconies or patios, reminding them they are responsible for their guests as well as themselves," Russwurm said. 
Senior Mark DeSplinter, 22, lives in apartment 18027, unit 
C. He said he was not home when the party began around noon, but he returned from Bengal Bouts practice at 6 p.m. 
DeSplinter said he was frus­
"We had extra people out because ofactivities ofthe past two St. Patrick's Days.,, 
Greg Dietchley Indiana State Excise Pollee 
said it is 
trated that he was 
not allowed back 
in the apartment 
until the police 
were finished at 
7:30p.m. 
"Basically, this is the most efficient thing I've ever seen. They won't let me back in my room," DeSplinter said. "They have at least seven cops inside scanning every ID. They due to the large 

amount of people inside." 
St. Joseph County Police Department was at College Park not to deal with alcohol-related issues, but to follow up on calls about traffic along Bulla Road and Route 23, according to Sgt. 


John Kuhny. 
"We're out here due to exces­sive traffic complaints," Kuhny said. "Basically what's going on in there [College Park complex] is no concern of mine." 
By 6 p.m., Kuhny said St. Joseph County officers issued two citations for public indecen­cy, particularly public urination. He also said St. Joseph County Police issued citations for cars parked illegally on the side of the road. Issued tickets ranged from $50 to $100, Kuhny said. 
Jaimee Thirion, spokesperson for St. Joseph County Police, said that officers are just trying to make sure students are safe. 
"We know there are festivi­ties," Thirion said. "There is nothing major going on-we're out patrolling." 
Notre Dame Security/Police did not handle any off-campus events, said NDSP assistant director Chuck Hurley. 
"We know that St. Joe County Police was out at College Park, but I don't know if any arrests were made," Hurley said. "On campus, one intoxicated student was turned over to hall staff, but that is all." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu and Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Pulitzer Prize vvinner passes away at home 
Associated Press 
PHINCETON, N.J. Diplomat and Pulitzer Prize­winning historian George F. Kennan, who gave the name "containment" to postwar for­eign policy in a famous but anonymous article, died Thursday night at· his Princeton home, his son-in­law said. 
Kennan was 101. 

"He was a giant. Many peo­ple have called him the most important foreign service offi­cer of the past half-century," said son-in-law Kevin Delany of Washington, D.C. "He was a very thoughtful man with an elegant writing style." 
Identified only as "X," Kennan laid out the general lines of the containment poli­cy in the journal "Foreign Affairs" in 1947, when he was chief of the State Department's policy planning staff. The article also predict­ed the collapse of Soviet Communism decades later. 
"It is clear that the main element of any United States policy toward the Soviet Union must be that of a long­term, patient but firm and vigilant containment of Russian expansive tenden­cies," Kennan wrote. 
When the Communist Party was finally driven from power in the Soviet Union after the failed hardline coup in August 1991, Kennan called it "a turning point of the most momentous historical signifi­cance." 
In his 194 7 article, Kennan disagreed with the emphasis on military containment embodied in the "Truman doctrine." That policy, announced three months before publication of Kennan's article, committed 
U.S. aid in support of "fr.ee people who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by out­side pressure." 
Kennan thought a Soviet Union exhausted by war posed no military threat to the United States or its allies, but was a strong ideological and political rival. In later years, he came to believe that the arms race, waged on the U.S. side in the name of contain­ment, had become the great­est threat to both the United States and the Soviet Union. 
Despite the "X" article and his work in formulating the Marshall Plan, Kennan lost inf1uence rapidly after Dean Acheson was appointed secre­tary of state in 1949. After a difference of opinion on Germany -Kennan favored reunification, his superiors did not -he took a leave of absence in 1950 to work at the Institute of Advanced Studies in Princeton. 
He was appointed ambassa­dor to Moscow in May 1952 but was declared "persona non grata" within a year. He resigned from the foreign service in 1953 because of dif­ferences with the new secre­tary, John Foster Dulles. 
During his years out of the foreign service, Kennan won the Pulitzer Prize for history and a National Book Award for "Russia Leaves the War," published in 1956. 
He again won the Pulitzer Prize in 1967 for "Memoirs, 1925-1950." A second vol­ume, taking his reminiscences up to 1963, appeared in 1972. Among his other books was "Sketches from a Life," pub­lished in 1989. 
Kennan returned to the for­eign service in the Kennedy administration, serving as ambassador to Yugoslavia from 1961-63. In 1967, he was assigned to meet Svetlana Alliluyeva, the daughter of Josef Stalin, in Switzerland and helped per­suade her to come to the United States. 
In the 1960s, Kennan opposed American involve­ment in Vietnam, arguing that the United States had no vital interest at stake. In Kennan's view, Washington had only five areas of vital interest: the 
Soviet  Union,  Britain,  
Germany,  Japan  and  the  
United States itself.  




'\N[>IAN ASSOCIATION OF NOTRE DAME PRESENTS •...•... 



BHANGRA BASH ! ! 
DANCE TO THE WICKEDEST INDIAN BHANGRA BEATS AND ENJOY MOUTH WATERING INDIAN FOOD II! 
SATURDAY, MARCH 19 10 PM-2AM 

LAFORTUNE BALLROOM $3 ADMISSION; FREE FOR MEMBERS 



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 18, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BsERVf:R'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. pursues North Korean talks 
SIIAN(;IIAI, China-Envoys from the Unitnd Statns, China, Japan and South Kon~a dis­cussed Thursday how to rnstart formal talks on nnding North Korea's nudear weapons pro­gram. ollidals said. but thnre was no indication that a Pyongyang rnpn~snntative att!~ndod. 
A North Kornan ollidal visiting South Al'riea blanwd tho Unitml Statns for a breakdown in thn talks and rPitPrated the government's angPr at twing brandPd an outpost of tyranny. 
Yang llyong Sop. vice~ president of North Kcm•a's parlianwnt, said it was now up to the UnitPd Statns to crnatn "appropriatn condi­tions" for dialogun, the South Afriean Press Association n~portPd. "Figuratively speaking, thn ball is in the U.S.' eourt," he was quotnd as saying af'tnr talks Thursday with South Africa's I>Pputy Pn~sidnnt .lac~ob Zuma. 
Islamic militants declare ceasefire 
SIXTII OF OCTOBEH CITY, Egypt ­Palestinian militanL<; declarnd a halt to attacks on Isnwl li1r tho rPst of this ynar, their longest cPase-l'ire promise nver and a vietory for Palestinian lnadnr Mahmoud Abbas. But thny warrwd Thursday thn truce would eollapsP. if lsracd dons not hold its own lire and rnlnasP. Palnstinian prisorwrs. 
Isranli l'rimn Minister Al'iP.l Sharon describnd tlw announc~enwnt as a "positive first step," though tw insistml that li1r hrrrater progress to takn placP "tnrrorist organizations cannot con­tinun to nxist as arnwd groups." A top aidn to Sharon, Barman Cissin, said lsraP.l would con­tinuo to rnl'min from military action so long as Palnstinians do not attack lsrm~lis. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Rapper lil' Kim convicted of peljury 
NFW YOBK-Hap diva Lil' Kim WIL'i mnvietml Thursday of lying to a li~dPral hrrand jury to pro­tnc:t friends who wnrn involVI~d in a shootout out­sidn a radio station. 
Lit' Kim and hnr <L'>sistant were both convicted of pnrjury and eonspiracy but aequitted of obstnietion of justicn. Kim faces up to 20 years in prison -livn ynars each for throp pP.rjury counL'> and 01111 eount of conspiracy -at hnr .lunn 24 snntondng. 
Tht~ lilrnwr sidnki<:k and mistress or the latP Notorious B.l.G., known for her rPvnaling outfits and raunchy raps. tnstilied that she didn't noticn two dose friP.nds at thP. scene of the 2001 gun hattie -her managnr, Damion Butler, and Suit' "Gutta" .laekson. Both men have since pleaded ).,>Uilty to ).,>Un ehargPs. 

New Jersey prisoner van hijacked 
EGG IIAHBOH TOWNSHIP, N.J. -A ).,>Unman earjackod a van from a roadside prison work dntail Thursday, h1ading authoritiP.s on a high­spnnd, 50-miln eha'>P in which he struck at lea<;t tlm~n othnr vehicles bnfi>re flipping over, police said. 
The suspnct then climbed out of the van, walkt~d up ru1 mnbankment and surrnndered to polieo who had gathPmd around the vchide with hruns drawn. 
The man W<L'> undergoing a psychiatric evalu­ation Thursday and was to be charged with nluding police and theft of a vehidn, aceording to Staln Policn l.t. David Jillson. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana pushes to legalize gambling 
INDIANAPOI.IS -Senate Hepublicans havn discussed at least two gambling pro­posals that eould reap hundreds of millions of dollars for the state, including legalizing and laxing vidoo gambling machines now operating unlawfully in hundreds of bars, social dubs and truck stops. 
Senate Hnpublieans also arP. privately considP.ring a proposal that would bring the statn $75 million a year by laking it away from six of the state's seven eountins with casinos, Snnatn Appropriations Chairman Hobnrt Mnnks, H-LaGrange, confirmed Thursday. Considnration of that plan was first rnported Wndnesday by The Courier­.lournal of l.ouisville, Ky. 

Letterman ransom plot exposed 
Man charged with planning to kidnap the talk show host's son and his nanny 
Associated Press 
HELENA, Mont. Authorities on Thursday eharged a man in what they say was a plot to kidnap David Lettc1rman's toddler son and nanny from the talk-show host's Montana home. 
Kelly A. Frank, 43, was being lwld on a felony charge of solicitation, among others. 
Montana Department of Corrections spokeswoman Sally llilander said the plot was uneoverP.d when some­one whom Frank had approached about the plan informed local police. 
StevP.n Hubenstein, a spokesman for Letterman's production company World Wide Pants, said he eould not immediately eomment or say whether Letterman or his family was in Montana at the limP. of Frank's arrest. 
The comedian who hosts CHS' "Late Show" taped three programs earlier this wnnk. but is not on the air Thursday and Friday because of tlw rwtwork's coverage of the men's eol­lege basketball tournament. 

Mike Ferriter of the state Departmnnt of Correetions said Frank had been work­ing as a painter at Letterman's ranch west of Choteau in north-central kidnap the nanny "so that Letterman for painting, and Montana spwad in 1999. Montana and apparently she eould take care of the a misdemeanor charge of Letterman's ranch is confided in an acquaintance child." obstruction for lying to an along tho ndge of the earlier this month of his The acquaintance con­investigator who first eon­rugged Hocky Mountain plan to kidnap Letterman's tacted authorities ·on taeted him about the Front, an arna known for its son and nanny and hold Sunday, according to the alleged plot. pristine wildlife habitats them for $5 million ransom. affidavit. Sheriff George He's jailed in neighboring and home to wolves, eaglns 
According to the affidavit Anderson told the weekly Pondera County on and grizzly bflars. In filed by Teton County Choteau Aeantha newspa­$600,000 bail. September 2003, a black Attorney Joe Coble, Frank per that Frank was arrested Letterman's girlfriend, bear broke into Letterman's had talked in detail with the the following morning at Regina Lasko, gave birth to home twice, tlwn was eap­acquaintance about his kid­another area ranch where their son on Nov. 3, 2003. tured and relocated artc~r napping plan. he was working. Anderson Letterman, who grew up in returning a third time. 
He told the man that he did not return phone calls Indianapolis and graduated For years, Letterman was knew Letterman and his to The Associated Press from Ball State University, famously targeted by a family would be visiting seeking comment. said that the boy, his first stalker, who called hnrsnll' their Montana home soon, In addition to the solicita­child, was named after his "Mrs. David Letterman" and that Frank had a key to tion charge, Frank also is late father, Harry Joseph and broke into his the house, knew where the charged with felony theft Letterman. Connecticut house at least baby slept and intended to for allegedly overcharging lie bought the 2,700-acr!'l seven times. 

IRAQ 

No major troop reduction until2006 
say how a reduction would be ele'ctions. The additional forcP.s are 
Associated Press 

achieved. Sending fewer or smaller scheduled to leave within two wonks. 
units to Iraq is one possibility; shorten­Another 22,700 allied, non-Iraqi 
WASHINGTON -Any permanent ing the time each unit spends in Iraq is troops arc also in the country, a num­reduction in the number of U.S. troops another. ber that has been dropping as more in Iraq isn't likely until sometime The military has not selected which countries. have pulled out forcns. between .2006 and 2008, a top Army units will serve in Iraq during that Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusc:oni general said Thursday. rotation. They would replace the indicated this week that Italy may 
For there to be any drawdown, Iraq Army's 4th Infantry and 1Olst begin reducing il'i 3,000-strong contin­security forces· must continue to Airborne divisions, which are slatP.d to gent later this year amid anger over improve thnir ability to fight the insur­go to Iraq in the coming rotation. the rncent, accidental killing of' an gency themselves, Gen. Richard A. The insurgency has forced the Italian intelligence officer by U.S. Cody, Army vicn chief of staff, told United States to keep a semi-perma­troops. reportnrs. nent force of 138,000 troops, or 17 The Pentagon says any rnduetions in 
The military is planning a staggerfld brigades, in Iraq since the U.S.-led fornign allied troops will bn made up rotation of soldiers and largfl units that invasion two years ago. They are pri­by Iraqi security forcns, whieh havn will be in Iraq betwnen 2006 and early marily Army soldiers and Marines, meanwhile grown to morn than 2008, Cody said. That planning is members of units who stay in Iraq for 140,000 soldiers and police who have expected to indude the possibility of a a yHar before going home. rnceiwd training and nquipmnnt. The significant reduction in U.S. forces. About 150,000 U.S. troops are in quality and capabilities of these lim~es 
He said he could not be more spedlic Iraq now because 12,000 extra were vary widely, and it is undnar wlwtlwr in numbers or timel'rame, nor did he sent for security during the Jan. 30 all the police am actually on the job. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, March 18, 2005 
Suntnter 
continued from page 1 
all of the logistics are still up to you," she said. 
The Career Center hosts sev­eral fairs throughout the year in order to help students meet potential employers. In January, the Winter Career Fair boasted 140 employers. Over 2,000 students attended. 
Thorup said hundreds of phone and on-site interviews took place throughout the year, but roughly 150 students -a very high figure -were actually granted on-campus interviews for internship posi­tions as a result of the fair. 
"Typically employP.rs don't come to campus for intern­ships," she said. 
Junior Katherine Exline found summer employment at the Winter Career Fair. 
Exline, a psychology and pre-professional student, was granted a job as a counselor at Camp Sweeney, a stay-over summer camp for children with diabetes. ShP. first heard about the camp in an e-mail, and attended the career fair, where camp representatives interviewed her on the spot. 
"It'll be a good opportunity for me because it brings together medicine and chil­dren which are two fields I am interested in," Exline said. 
Students are starting career exploration much earlier, Thorup said. Many sopho­mores attended the career fair and are hoping to obtain internship positions this sum­mer. 
For unpaid internships in 

Indiana, the Indiana Careers Consortium provides a $3,000 stipend to students. 
"It's opened a lot of possibili­ties for students," Thorup said. 
Some students have found employment and internship opportunities without using the Career Center's databases. 
Megan Hagerty, a junior biology major, said she acquired a summer internship through her experience on campus as a Teach for America (TFA) Representative. She will spend the summer in Texas as the Operation Coordinator for Houston Summer Institute, performing office jobs in schools where TFA teachers will be teaching kids. Hagerty hopes to get accepted into the two-year low-housing teaching program after graduation. 
"I hope to gain experience through this internship," she said. "It will provide me with a good insight into the training I will receive as a TFA teacher." As application deadlines draw near, Thorup said students still have time to apply for intern­ships. More opportunities will be available to students in the upcoming weeks, including the Non-Profit Career Fair on March 22 and the Chicago Career Connection on April 4. 
Thorup also said that whether students reply to a Career Center posting online, use network connections with alumni or relatives or contact an employer directly, the best advice she has for students is "don't be afraid to be aggres­sive." 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 
Fla. court fights for -wotnan's life 
Family, Senate battle over feeding tube 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Last­ditch efforts to block the removal of Terri Schiavo's feed­ing tube foundered Thursday as courts rebuffed her parents' appeals and lawmakers failed to agree on legislation to inter­vene in the contentious battle to keep the severely brain­damaged woman alive. 
Under court order, the feed­ing tube was set to be removed at 1 p.m. Friday, in what could be the final act in the long-run­ning right-to-die drama. 
The Florida House passed a bill 78-37 to block the with­holding of food and water from patients in a persistent vegeta­tive state who did not leave specific instructions regarding their care. But hours later, the Senate defeated adifferent measure 21-16, and one of the nine Republicans voting against indicated that any further votes would be futile. 
"As far as we're concerned we don't want anything to change the existing law," said Sen. Jim King. 
The U.S. House and Senate passed competing bills but it was unclear whether a com­promise could be reached. State courts and the U.S. Supreme Court, meanwhile, rejected attempts by Schiavo's parents and the state to post­pone the removal of her feed­ing tube. 
"Everything is a longshot," said David Gibbs, attorney for Schiavo's parents, Bob and Mary Schindler. 
Gibbs said late Thursday that he would ask a federal judge in a habeas corpus filing Friday in 
. Tampa to block the removal and review the actions of state courts. Such appeals are most commonly used in death penal­ty cases when legal appeals have been exhausted; they require the government to jus­tify its actions. "We are going to ask him to issue a stay because in this case, state action would be used to end the life of an inno­cent, disabled woman," Gibbs said. The Florida attorney gener­al's office usually defends the state against habeas filings. A call to the office late Thursday seeking comment was not immediately returned. Schiavo suffered severe brain damage in 1990 when her heart stopped because of a chemical imbalance, and court­appointed doctors say she is in a persistent vegetative state. Her husband, Michael Schiavo, says she told him she would not want to be kept alive artificial­ly. Her parents dispute that, and say she could get better. "It would be such a horrible tragedy for Terri to have this delayed again," said George Felos, attorney for Michael Schiavo. "Either Terri's rights and wishes arc going to be car­ried out tomorrow at 1 p.m. or there is going to be another 

unconstitutional intervention." 
Doctors have said it cou·ld take a week or two for Schiavo to die once the tube that deliv­ers water and nutrients is removed 
Republican Gov. Jeb Bush has strongly urged the Legislature to pass a bill that would save Schiavo, as it did in 2003. That law allowed Bush to order doc­tors to restore Schiavo's feed­ing tube six days after it had been removed. But that law was later declared unconstitu­tional by the Florida Supreme Court. 
Bush acknowledged Thursday that state legislation to intervene was halted. 
"The bill is certainly not dead, but it does appear that they're having some difliculty," he said. ''I'm just disappointed, but that's their decision." 
The state Senate could con­sider the House version of the bill on Friday, but the bill's sponsor in the upper chamber, Republican Sen. Daniel Webster, suggested there was so little support that he might withdraw it. 
"I can count votes," Webster said. 
In Washington, both the U.S. House and Senate passed bills to move the case to federal court, but the effort stalled over differences between !louse Republicans and members of both parties in the Senate over how sweeping it should be. Schiavo's parents and brother spent the day in the Capitol lob­bying lawmakers to pass some kind of legislation. 



is accepting applications for 
student comic artists 
for the 2005-06 publishing year. 
Please submit five samples of your work with a name and campus phone number to Claire Heininger in The Observer office in ·the basement of South Dining Hall by Friday, March 25. 
Questions? Contact Claire at 1-4542. 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Friday, March 18, 2005 
page 7 

Dow 
10,626.35 -6.72

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,907 161 ·~ 1,580,057,856 

AMEX. I ,487.37 +3.53 NASDAQ bPI ().4~.. +0.67 NYSf 7,284.31 +19.84 S&PSOO I 190.21 +2.14
,),.... ......... . 

NIKKEI(rokyo) 11,886.84 +7.30 fTSf IOO(London) 4,992. I 0 -15.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASQII..Q IOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  +0.26  +0.09  36.71  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFl)  -0.37  -0.09  24.54  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.55  -0.13  23.41  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  .. o.22  -0.04  18.03  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  + 1.08  +0.14  13.16  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.67  -0.32  47.60  
I0.YEAR NOTE  -1.06  -0.48  44.70  
5..YEAR NOTE  -1.15  -0.48  41.36  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.18  .. o.os  27.27  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  .. o.06  56.40  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -5.10  439.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.25  91.20  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I 04.67  
EURO  0.7474  
POUND  0.5198  
CANADIAN$  I JO I~  
IN BRIEF  

FAA predicts increased travel 
WASIIINCiTON-Morn than 1 billion pnople a ynar will bP boarding plarws in thn UnitPd Statns within a dnradn. rwarly half again as many as thosn now using an aviation systmn showing signs of !wing ovnrburdPnnd. 
Thn Fmlnral Aviation Administration. which rnlnasml Llw fonwast Thursday, facos spnnding ruts for runways, air trallk eontrol equipment and buildings. But thn agency's administrator, Marion Blakny, said shn was confident there would hn nnough money to aecornmodatn the dramatic growth in air trallk. 
"Wn am rmlnsigning airspace, d!lploying new sotlwarn that will hnlp iru:rnasn capadty, and put­ting nnw procmlurns in plaeo," Blakey said. "We will bn rnady." 
l.awmaknrs and aviation advocates wern not so sun•. 
Building is not knnping up with the incrnw;e in pw;smJgnrs, said David Stmnplnr, president of the Air Travnlnrs A'isodation. "That just spells con­gnstion and dnlays for passnngers." 
Alnwly, tlighL'> havn bonn limited at Chicago's O'llarn lntnrnational Airport bm:ausn too many planns wnrn trying to take oil' and land, causing dnlays throughout tho muntry. The FAA nngotiat­nd an agrnnnwnt with airlines to cut 37 daily tlighL'> and limit the nurnbnr of domnstie arrivals to HH an hour bntwmm 7 a.m. and H p.m. 
Internet tobacco sales stopped 
ALBANY. N.Y. -Major credit card eompanics will rofusn to partidpatn in lntnrnnt salns of dg­an~ttns nationwidn undPr a government a~-,rree­nwnt rnadn Thursday. 
Tlw U.S. Burnau of Alcohol, Tobaeeo, t•irnlu·rns and Explosivns, tho eompanies and stall~ attornoys gnrwral agrned to work together to prnvont tho long unc.hoeked usc of credit cards to buy dgarnttns ovnr the lntnrrwt across state lines. Tlw agn~enwnt is nm~ctivn immndi­aldy. 
Tho rnsult is that virtually all erndit cards will no long«'r partidpatn with Wnh sites basnd in the llnitPd States and abroad that s1~1l dgarnttos and tobal'l'o products in Pvnry stat11. said Nnw York Attorrwy (il~n«'ral !mot SpitzPr. Thn eard r.ornpa.. ni•~s also agn~Pd to tak«' artion against lntnrnet sPIII~rs that authoritins idnntily as violating stat•~ and li·dPral laws r·pgulal ing dgarntt.P sah1s. 
Corporations oust executives 
World Com, Boeing search for new CEOs after string of corporate scandals 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Wanted: 
Chief' nxeeutivn to hmd m<~jor 
company. Must be prolidcnt 
in aecounting and linance, 
valuns being a team-player, 
understands current regula­
tory environment. Oversized 
egos nnnd not apply. 
The nnw credentials for 
CEOs are being drawn up 
not just by exncutive seareh 
committees or eorporate 
boards. They are coming, 
too, from shareholders and 
even from jury boxes ­
where the verdict is loud and 
dear about what is appro­
priate behavior for top exec­
utives. 
The guilty-on-all-counts 
verdict Tuesday for former 
WorldCom Inc. CEO Bnmard 
Ebbers was a dramatic 
exampln. but just one of' sev­eral instances in many forums whnro the kings ­.and quenns-or industry have bnen called sharply to ac1:ount. ­
No onn is nxpllcting CEOs 
to lhdo into thn backdrop of 
r.orporatn Ameriea as a 
rosult. Exnr.utivcs arn boing 
reminded to put their busi­
nesses, their omployees and 
their shareholders lirst. ­
and to be rnsponsibln for 
how thoir businesses oper­
ate, however. 
Ebbers was convicted of 
engineering the colossal 

accounting fraud that sank got badly burned as a rnsult stepping up their oversight. edged an alTair with a 
his telecommunications of the c~orporate scandals in too, and not just acting as fnmale Boning nxneutivn 
company, leaving thousands recent years. Now, they arc rubber stamps for execu­whieh included graphic e­
of employees without jobs taking a more activo role in tivns' agendas. In large part mail exehangns bntwenn tho . 
and loading to the biggest making sure the CEO's role. that's because thoy know two. 
corporate bankruptcy in U.S. is better defined, and that that they eould be personally And most importantly, the 
history. boards pick the right execu­liable for what goes wrong boards aro moving away 
lie relied on the "I didn't tives to till it. during their watch. from thoi r own love alTair know even though I was tho At Walt Disney Co., This week, American with sup11rstar oxm:utivos ­CEO" defense in his trial. But protests from shareholders International Group Inc. those who seem to spnnd as the jury didn't buy that the led to CEO Michael Eisner forced the retirement of mueh timo promoting thorn­man who was the name and losing his title of board I lank Greenberg, who rulnd selves as the eompanins thoy face of WorldCom didn't c~hairman last year, and like­as an iron-listed CEO lbr 37 work for -and morn have a hand in the manipu­ly pushed the company's years at tho insurance and toward smart. qualifind ean­lation of the company books. dirnctors to come up with a linancial services company didatns who 1:an build share­
The jury's decision can be successor in a timely fash­that now faces a regulatory holder value. read this way: CEOs can't ion. Disney president Hobert probe. They want pnopln who ean "be" tho company ono day Igor this week was tapped to Should a CEO compromise connect with mnploynes up and then, the next, try to suceeed Eisner in October, ethics, boards aren't hesitat­and down the ranks, and divorce themselves from and is expected to bring with ing to show him the door. who favor a morn open-door what happened at tho com­him a less tyrannieal, more Boeing Co.'s board quickly approach. A CEO that is pany. weleoming management removed CEO llarry insulated at the top won't 
A similar judgment is com­style. Stonecipher earlier this hear about troublos brewing ing from shareholders, who For their part. boards are month after he acknowl-down bnlow. 


Group acquires Toys R Us stores 
Associated Press 
NEWAHK. N.J. -Toys H Us Inc., the nation's second-largest toy sell­er, agreed Thursday to be acquired for about $5.75 billion by an invest­ment group that ineludes two pri­vate equity firms and a real estate developer, ending a seven-month auction for a struggling company. 
Its shares jumpnd nearly 5.5 per­cent. 
Tho Wayne-based company had anrwunced in August it would seek to snparatn its sluggish toy business from the smaller. but more lucra­tive, Babies H Us division. 
lnstnad, the company agreed to.bn swallowed whole by Kohlborg Kravis Hoberts & Co., Bain Capital LLC and Vornado Healty Trust, who will be equal partners. 

"We look forward to building on the many strengths of the eompany to make the stores a better place to shop and work," said Michael M. Calbert, a director at KKR. 
KKH is the storied buyout firm that won the celebrated takeover battle for HJR Nabisco in the Jato 1980s. 
Matt Lnvin, a managing director at Bain Capital, said, "Toys H Us and Babies H Us are prmnion~ franchises with strong global brand reeognition and a eollection of high quality produet ol'l'orings." 
Thn consortium will aequirn all sharos of Toys B Us for $26.75 a sharn. an ts pereent prnmiurn ovnr Wednesday's c:losn. With roughly 215 million Toys H Us shares out­standing, the bid is worth $5.75 bil­lion. 
Toys H Us shares jumpnd $1.:H, to $26.13 in late morning trading on the New York Stock 1\xehangn. 
Tho buyers arn also assuming an undisclosed amount of debt. 
Toys H Us had been a publie com­pany since 197H. Completion of tho deal requires regulatory rnvinw and approval by the sharnholdnrs, and is expnetml to 01:1~ur by July, tho eom­pany said. 
Toys H Us, sneond only to Wai­Mart Storos lnr.. in toy sales, announcml in August it would snpa­ratn its toy busirwss from tlw Bahins H Us segnwnt. bul did not say how. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 18, 2005 
WoiDen 
continued from page 1 
cussed feminist perspectives on the U.S. invasion and occu­pation of Iraq. 
Another part of the sympo­sium, a large photography exhibit by Iraqi-Palestinian­American photographer Sarna Alshaibi titled "Where Do Birds Fly After the Last Sky," is cur­rently on display in the Cushwa-Leighton Library. The self-portrait series includes images of Alshaibi, some of them nude, well advanced in the stages of pregnancy. 
"We were trying to balance more intellectual and scholarly 


Medal 
continued from page 1 
"A candidate for the Laetare Medal must be a practicing American Catholic who is said to have made a distinctively Catholic contribution to his or her intellectual or professional life. Ideally, the person's profes­
sional life would be onn of service to others," Jarret said. 
The recipient of the Laetare Medal is selected by a committee comprised of rep­resentatives from different academ­ic disciplines within the University, Jarret said on behalf of the committee. 
approaches with more creative approaches," CWIL fellow and symposium organizer Maria Melendez said. 
Events yesterday featured poet Yosefa Raz and Israeli author and peace activist Rela Mazali. 
Raz is currently a professor of world mythology at Diablo Valley College in California and her writing appears in numer­ous publications including Jewish Currents and Margie: The American Journal of Poetry. 
Mazalo is the former director of projects and development for the Association of Israeli Palestian Physicians for Human Rights and has spent years working to end occupa­
at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, Murray served as a surgeon at the U.S. Army's Valley Forge General Hospital in Philadelphia from 1944-47. 
The Laetare Medal is unique in that it is an external award given by Notre Dame to some­one outside the University. 
Murray will receive the award during the University's Commencement ceremony on 
"Human lives and hopes have been wonderfully invigorated by Joseph Murray's I 954 medical triumph." 
Father Edward Malloy University President 
May 16. 
"By honoring this splendid generosi­ty, we mean to thank his benefac­tor, who is ours as well," Malloy said. 
Established in 1883, the Laetare Medal is one of the oldest honors given to American· Catholics who have made contributions 
to the arts and sci­ences in particular. 
"The Committee generally solicits names from all the facul­ty and staff at the University, and then narrows down the field to two or three candidates. The Officers of the University then vote based on the recommenda­tions of the committee," Jarret said. 
Murray, who was born in Milford, Mass., graduated from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass. with concen­trations in Latin, Greek, Philosophy and English. He graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1943. After completing his surgical training Past recipients include President John F. Kennedy, Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day and death penalty abolitionist Sister Helen Prejean. 
"There are many people ­poets, artists, musicians, scien­tists, scholars, statesmen, priests, religious, etc. -whose professional lives are animated by their Catholic faith, and who seek through their professions to make the world a better place and to give glory to God," Jarret said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


tion of the Palestinian territo­Founder and director of ries. In addition to her talk on Women In Media & News mid-east peace activism (WIMNN) Jennifer Pozner will Thursday Mazalo will read speak Tuesday March 22 in a 
excerpts from her book "Maps of Women's Goings and Stayings" today at noon in Madeleva Hall. 
The symposium continues Monday at 7 p.m. with a showing of the film "Independent Media in a Time of War" featuring 

"It seemed like an appropriate theme given what is going on in the world. " 
Astrid Henry professor 
lecture titled "Media... Women 
and  War:  How  
Does  the  
Invisibilty  of  

Women's Voices in War Coverage Shortchange America?" Pozner is a for­mer director of the Women's Desk for FAIR 
Amy Goodman. Psychology Chair Professor Joe Miller will lead a discussion about media coverage of war following the screening. 
(Fairness and Accuracy In Heporting), a national media watch group. 
The symposium will wrap up Wednesday with a poetry read­




(0~(~ 
CHA~l ~W~ ~ 
ing by Palestinian-American writer and scholar Lisa Suhair Majaj. Born in Iowa and raised in Jordan, Majaj currently lives in Nicosia, Cyprus and studies issue of self-identity in Arab­American literature and cul­ture. 
Meledez called the sympo­sium especially significant in the all women's environment of Saint Mary's. 
"I think it is especially excit­ing [to have the event] on a women's campus so students can have access to difference women's perspectives ... and can see the women can liave powerful voices," she said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmacys.edu.edu 

COME HEAR COACH WEIS SPEAK ABOUT THE VALUE OF PEOPLE WITH DJSABIUTIES AND HIS WIFFS FOUNDATION, 
HANNAH AND FRIENDS. 
The Hispanic Law Students' Association cordially invites the Notre Dame communityto attend this year's Graciela Olivarez Award Ceremony Saturday, March 19,2005 
Thisprestigious awardis given in honor ofGraciela Olivarez, the first Hispanic and first female to graduate from NDLS. The Awardis bestowed each year upon aHispanic lawyeror judge who best exemplifies Graciela Olivarez'scommitment to community service, demonstration of the highest ethical and moral standards, and dedication to justice. This year's recipient is Mercedes Colwin, Partner, Correspondent, &Community Activist. 
Award Ceremonybegins at n:oo am in the Law School Courtroom 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
j j j j 
Friday, March 18, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Nevv study finds coeds crave T.V. 
Associated Pres.< 
NEW YOHK -Classes'? What classes? 
!\ study reveals that college students watch an avmage of thrnn hours. 41 minutes of television each day. 
Viewing peaks in tlw Jato­night hours for <~ollcge males, interrupting any cramming for exams, according to a report by Ninlsen Mndia HesParch. tho primary snrvien for nwasuring TV audiencns. 
"It was a littln more than I nxpPctPd it to lw," said l'at Mrl>onough, Nielsen's senior vice prosidPnt of planning, polit~y and analysis. 
But. it's IPss, by about an hour. than llw amount of time an avf'ragn /\nwri1:an spends watt·hing TV Pach day, NitdsmJ said. 
College viewing was some­thing of a final frontier for Nielsen. The company has been able to track the TV habits of college-age men and womnn whfm they're living at home, but until last fall had no reliable measurement of what students were watching in their dorms, frall~rnities or sororitins, or college apart­ments. 
TV networks are eager to see this information. Young people, particularly young men, rnpresent a dnmograph­ie for whieh some advertisers will pay a prnmium, and Nielsen's data can provo wlwther a show draws this audience. 
For college men, the ten most-watched programs last October worn all baseball ganws, primarily postsnason 

games involving the Boston Hed Sox as the team marched to its first World Series cham­pionship in 86 years. For col­lege women, their favorite show in October was NBC's "Joey," Ninlsen said. Tho women also liked ABC's short-lived "Life As We Know It," set in a high school. 
In an era when many peo­ple watch television alone, it was different in dorms: a large amount of college stu­dnnts watch with their room­mates and others, mnaning they have to negotiate over which programs to tune in, Nielsen said. 
By almost 2-to-1, college students watched more shows on cable than on broadcast tnlevision. It's much eloser among tho audience as a whole. 
® 


Before you buy a diamond, call us for a free quote, you will be glad you did. 
Established 1965 
Jewelers 
Gemologist, G.G., F.G.A I Mineralogist, M.A. 
Goldsmiths I Platinumsmiths 
..... Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
Key Bank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 


Rome, Italy Campus 
Prepare Yourself for the Global Arena 
Picture yourself in Rome, studying to receive your American master's degree while living in the heart of the Eternal City, one of the most historic and cultural cities in the world. 
St. John's University. the only accredited American university offering you this unique opportunity, makes it possible for you to complete your entire degree in Rome, whether you are interested in pursuing an M.B.A. degree or an M.A. degree. 
Master of Business Administration Accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (www.aacsb.edu) 
• 
International Business 

• 
International Finance 

• 
Marketing Management 


Master of Arts in Government and Politics Accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education (www.msache.org) 
• International Relations 
Rome Campus Contact Information: Via di Santa Maria Mediatrice, 24-00165 Rome, Italy U.S. Ph. {212) 815-9216 Ext. 2 E-mail: info11 @stjohns.edu Website: www.stjohns.edu/rome 

55361 


Peterson prosecutors reveal details of case 
Freedfrom gag order, policefield questions 
Associated Press 
MODESTO -The prosecu­tors and detectives who helped send Scott Peterson to death row made their most in-depth publie comments on the case Thursday, acknowledging "tak­ing a hit" early in the trial but expressing relief that they were eventually able to pre­vail. 
Authorities discussed the ease hours after Peterson. secured with log irons and shackles around his wrists and waist. was taknn to death row at San Quentin State Prison. Petorson was for­stantial evidenee. 
"Things did get hard for a while. Our people wnm taking a hit," said District /\tlornny Jim Brazelton. "But, as the end result showed, they were on top of it. Thny wnm on lop of it early on." 
Modesto Poliee l>ntnetivn /\1 Broeehini nxplained how his suspieions heeamn trained on Peterson tlw night he rnported his eight-months' prngnant wifn missing, beeaust~ "I knew his actions wnn~n't right." 
In eons is t n n t stat~~ 111 n n t s about wlwrn lw had bonn that day, ehoosing to takn a showl'r and wash dirty rags lwforo calling anyone l.o ask about Laei's whnrnahouts and nxprossing con­cern that his boss would St't' a pic­

mally senteneed turn of' his boat
"There will never 
to death wnrn all factors
be a time we won't
Wednesday at an that pointnd in emotional hear­regret that this Pntnrson's dirnc­ing. incident took place. tion, Brocchini 
Liberated from said.
but justice has 
a gag order that "llis major eon­prnvented them been served." corns woron't from discussing Lad," hn said. their investiga­l.aci Potnrson
Modesto Pollee Chief 
tion, police and disappearl'd on
Roy Wasden 
prosecutors Christmas Eve 
declined to otTer any new evidenee or theories on how Peterson carried out the slaying. 
But they expressed hope that the public never forgets the young mother-to-be who was murdered by her cheating hus­band just before Christmas more than two years ago . 
"There is not a sense of joy or jubilation. The job that needed to be done has been done," Modesto Police Chief Roy Wasden said. "There will never be a time we won't regret that this incident took place, but justice has been served." 
During an hour spent fielding questions from reporters, police and prosecutors conced­ed feeling frustrated at the prevailing view early in the trial that Peterson would likely go free. But they said they never lost faith that the state would win by methodically presenting a wealth of circum­2 () () 2 
Prosneutors said Peterson killed h1~r and then dumped her body in San Francisco Bay. The badly decomposed remains of Laci and her fetus washed ashore four months later. Seott Peterson was convicted of two counts of murder in November. 
Brocchini and Detective Jon Buehler, another homicide detective assigned to the case, said they would relish the chance to interview Peterson again and would do so on their own, if' it meant they would finally learn how he killed his wife and disposed of her body. 
But Brazelton predieted thny would never get the chance. 
"I don't foresee him becom­ing a Ted Bundy, to sit down and give an in-depth intnrview about what happened," he said. "I think he will go to his grave with his mouth tightly sealed, just like he has all along." 

TONIGHT! Friday, March 18@ 9:00pm Limit of16 participants Sign up at Brother Gorch Pool Winner receives $75 Best Buy G.C.! $2 buy-in to participate, due at sign up. 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, March 18, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
71te ltukpnrdnu, D4i/y NnuspAper Sn-vi"K Ntmr Dam~ "'"J Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EriiTOR: Maureen Reynolds· AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63!-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.!@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorial~ represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistanl Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include comac1 information. 
Qu~stiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht Observer {USPS '599 l-4000) i5 published Mond;~y through Friday except during txam and vacuion pcrioW.. A suh~riptitm to'lheObsnvct il $100 for one academic yt'ilf; $55 ti1r one ~mester. 
Tiw Observer is published Itt: POSTMASTER 02-1 South Dining fi.JII Send addres:; wrtectiom to: Notrt Dame, IN 465)6-0779 The Observer Pcriodkal postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Bo, 779 and additionAl m;ailing offices. 024 South Dining H.11l 
Norrc Dame, IN 46'5'>6-0779 
The Observer is a member of thc.> As..11Hciatal Press. All n::productinn rights :m: 
r~ved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Let speeches speak for themselves 
In recent years, the hunt for a suitable commencement speak­Most students recognize that it is impossible to bring the presi­er has grown increasingly intense. Gone are the days when col­dent of the United States to campus every year. Yet most do not leges and universities turned to their oldest and quirkiest faculty realize that it is equally difficult to select someone who will member, complete with bow tie, to deliver the farewell address. appeal to every member of the graduating class. Now, nearly all elite institutions maintain commencement speak­While this year's commencement speaker, Vartan Gregorian, er committees which meet as early as a year in advance to eval­does not have what can be described as a marquee name, he uate their options for graduation day. certainly has led a life ofleadership. Born in Tabriz, Iran and 
A big name, of course, means happy students and proud alum­raised in Lebanon, Gregorian received his education from ni. It can also result in good press for universities. Stanford University and spent over two decades in During the traditional graduation months of May higher education both as a professor and adminis­
O
Jhe 

and June, media outlets are full of sound bites and userver trator. IIe has served both as president of Brown news briefs recapping commencement ceremony University and the New York Public Library, and speeches. Congressmen and distinguished intel­currently heads the philanthropic organization lectuals are a staple of the fanfare but pop culture Carnegie Corporation. 
Editorial figures such as Oprah Winfrey and Queen Noor of Gregorian's years of service, which have been Jordan are not uncommon and are highly publicized. honored with awards such as the National Humanities Medal 
In 2001 , Notre Dame had the most coveted of all commence­presented by President Bill Clinton in 1998 and the Presidential ment speakers. President Bush, who according to a May 2004 Medal of Freedom presented by President Bush in 2004, prove USA Today article receives as many as 100 request'> each year, him to be an exemplary figure in academia, which is, after all, delivered the keynote address. the overriding purpose of the commencement exerdses. 
But the national attention the president brought to Notre Notre Dame does need to continue to find a balance between Dame had a drawback-it set students' expectations sky-high. the celebrity-type figure and one with an impressive academic 
Indeed, subsequent speakers -political commentator and background. Ideally, every speaker selected could be both. But in Meet the Press moderator Tim Russert in 2002, Indiana Sen. the meantime, Notre Dame students should reserve their judg­Richard Lugar in 2003 and Minnesota Supreme Court Justice ment of the University's selection until after the 2005 graduates and former Notre Dame football standout Alan Page in 2004-hear Gregorian speak. all seemed a bit of a letdown after the commander in chiefs Because no matter which university, no matter who the speak­visit. er, the name can't say more than the speech itself. 
The art of hearing God 
When that little devil and miniature angel sit on opposite shoulders to advise me, it seems like the devil's seductions are always more intriglling. So it follows that religious institutions divide teaching about faith in similar terms -extol the positive Gary Caruso to gain heavenly rewards or warn of 
Capitol

the damnation 
Comments

awaiting sinners. Human nature, such as it is, inevitably responds more vocifer­ously to a negative reaction, especially one replete with the disgust of abominations. Ultimately, American clergy pepper us with definitions of "what is wrong with us" more than "what is right with God." 
Lost in the everyday lives, we generally gloss over religious rhetoric and miss the subtle ways God whispers his lessons to us. After many Lenten seasons with a deaf ear, I finally heard God's word this year through Deacon Nicholas at St. Matthew's Cathedral. It took three experiences with the deacon before the enlightened word echoed loud and clear. 
Last autumn I served as a lector at mass with Deacon "Nick" when I first met him. After he missed reading the general inter­cessions, I joked with him about "covering his back" since I literally walked up behind him to mumble that he missed his assign­ment but that I was on my way to cover for him. Our seamless choreography left the congregation none the wiser for his mis­take. 
In February when I next saw Deacon Nick, he drank Several glasses of water before mass. He shook slightly while he sat waiting for the procession to begin. I offered to read the intercessions again if he was unable to during mass. He thanked me for offering and said that he would let me know when the time came. 
Deacon Nicholas delivered his homily on the transfiguration while standing in the aisle outside the sanctuary. He described his daily fight with Parkinson's Disease. I cannot recall many of his specific com­ments, but remember that tears welled in my eyes. He spoke of his rationalization of his daily challenge and thanked those who at times had to feed and dress him. He spoke of his appreciation of events that transformed his life, like his spiritual jour­ney to the mountain top and returning to see the brilliance in the eyes of his loved ones. 

While he spoke, he tightly grasped his garment in the middle of his back with his right hand so it would not shake. It reminded me of Adolf Hitler whose same right hand violently shook by the end of World War II. Why would God afflict the deacon with the same punishment for a dictator? 
As he climbed the stairs to the alter and paused to bow, he lost his balance, stag­gered back a step but did not fall. His courage to continue fought complete exhaustion. I read the intercessions this time because he could not. It was the sec­ond time I did my small part for him at our next mass. 
Deacon Nick stood rigid behind the alter directly in front of me looking like one of the military guard at Arlington National Cemetery. His shaved head and tall profile stood almost at attention while he tightly gripped his robe square in the middle of his back. · 
When we again served together two weeks ago, Deacon Nicholas swallowed pills with his several glasses of water before mass. I asked him ifhe and the Pope had the same aflliction to which he said yes. He had thought of the why of the coincidence. Feeling awkward, I blurted out, "You are lucky. You know your path. It is an honor to have the same cross to bear as the Pope." 
During the prayer prior to our depar­ture, he mentioned the recent passing of a 39-year-old woman he once dated. Then, while we stood in line before our proces­sion, he joked that the period before mass seemed like back stage at a rock concert with its hustle and organized chaos. It was his favorite time of mass. 
The deacon tired during mass but did not stumble. Taking the pills before mass probably had an effect since his hand shook less than the other times I had accompanied him. For the third time in as many masses I read the intercessions for him even though I did not have an oppor­tunity to practice before mass. Death is the great equalizer among us. Ac; all of us march toward our end on earth, we hold many varying thoughts of what lies ahead. Yet none of us has the answer. Christians, in search of answers, comb through every word of the Bible to know Jesus. However, those literal words are probably revised concoctions rewritten during the first few hundred years of the Church by zealous men with agendas like Pope Gregory. 
Early Christians gladly offered their lives without defining specific personal relation­ships with their savior. True Christians never called on a ban of thought like the Italian Cardinal from Genoa who now seems to have be!,'Un his campaign for Bishop of Home by suddenly opposing the sale of "The Da Vinci Code" in Catholic bookstores. Brothers in faith never worried about the politics of Caesar like Americans today who seem to blur with their religious agendas slogans like "culture of life" that turns a blind eye to opposing the death penalty and war. 
We may learn about God, but none of us really knows God unless we hear his whis­pers of worth, dignity and rights for all mankind. Those whispers come in many forms and event'>. For me, reading three times for Deacon Nicholas has given mean­ing and understanding to llie. I am fortu­nate to have heard a meaningful Lenten whisper. 
Gary Caruso. Notre Dame '73, served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton sadministration. His col­umn appears every other Friday. lie can be contacted at hotlline@aol. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
News Sports Nicole Zook Matt Puglisi 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Mary Kate Malone Tim Dougherty Katie Perry Ken Fowler 
"Don't knock the weather; nine 

Jarrett Lantz Scene Do you already have an internship Submit a 
tenths ofthe people couldn't start a
for the summer?
Viewpoint Marin Smith 
conversation ifid didn't change 

Letter to the Editor at

Alyssa Brauweiler Illustrator 
once in a while."

Graphics Graham Ebestch www. ndsmcobserver. com Graham Ebestch 
•Poll appears courtesy of 
Kin Hubbard
www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 45 responses. 
journalist 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, March 18, 200'5 
page I I 
--------:-::-::---­

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Taco Bell boycott finally ends 
Step it up, fans 
As a Doubln Dorner and parent of contests. Life is full of disappoint­two 1:urrnnt Notre Dame students, I ment, where missing the NCAAs is a think I have spent enough flea on the nlephant's butt, Limn (and money) on cam­and no excuse to abandon pus to ask this question a bastketball team. They -how can it be that say the team under­only 2500 people performed down the attendnd the NIT stretch. So be it. The game? Was that a fans never should. misprint? At the risk Also, if my two of lwing labeled an weren't at the game, old-tirnnr, we used to they'll be transferring have students hanging to Holy Cross next from the rafters wateh­semester. ing Notrn Dame vs. East Cupcake University. We Dennis Kearney had more than 2,500 people alumnus bnhind the old bookstore to watch class of 1976, JD 1980 a Sweet 16 game in the Iron Man March 17 

Examine Christian traditions 
I apprndatnd I lolly .James' Mar. 16 oil' as the produet of old-folkio consor­artidn "Consider it Christian" because vativns wanting to return to the days slw addrnss an important issue within before Vatican II, ask yourself if this is tlw largor discussion of Christianity (as a pnrl{lctly acceptable and approved wnll as probably most other religions). way to r.elebrate the Eucharist, or What I rnfor to is tho conservative vs. when you walk by those protesting the lilmral dnbate. I have latnly become plight of migrant tomato farmers and frustrated with such labols, not start to think about liberal soeial jus­because thny do not help you to gauge tice waekos, it might be better to ask whnrn someone may stand on a partie­what the grnatnr Christian tradition of ular issun but bnecwsn they semn to helping the poor is or what the mn to he somnhow irrelevant. The Catholic idea of solidarity means. much morn important question to ask And yet sueh a semantie ehange is wlwther thn stance is Christian or does not mean that we do not stop not. and to look dosnly at many of the judging events and aetions sueh as discussions and people here at Notr<~ abortion or oppressive economie poli­I >anw, is the stanee Catholic or not. cies but rather that our judgment is This dmngn in smnanties brings tho put in its propHr place: the tradition of diseussion to questions or orthodoxy the Chureh instead of in our own opin­and hetnrodoxy whi<:h get much more ions, whieh whether conservative or to thn !wart of thn matter. liberal ean quite easily become wrong 
Also, the labels of conservative and and hnretieal. Because the biggest lihnral do little to help us understand if question and gauge is not initially th11 stance (or for that matter thn per­political or based on our own personal son) is ad/wring to an orthodox view preferences but on whether or not we or a hntnrodox view because lwrnsies are following Christ and the teachings (yes, I used that nasty, forbid(l11n word) of his Chureh. ~~an go both ways as they have through thn history of the Church and continue Shannon Berry to do so today. So when you come graduate swdem across a Mass said in Latin on off-campus Saturday morning and want to write it March 17 
U-WIRE 

Zero changed the world 
The USS Yorktown was a billion-dollar zero to itself, and all you get is zero. missile cruiser. Warships like it are Zero refuses to changn. Becausn of this, designed to withstand the strike of a tor­the West could not accept it for nearly pedo or the blast of a mine. two millennia. 
Though it was heavily armored Mathematics was not the only area in against physical which zero elashnd with Western lil'e.
Aaron Duncan
attacks, no ever Zero ehallcnged the West's belief in God. thought to defend Aristotle wrote a theory to justify the the Yorktown from Kansas State existence of God. In that theory, he rea­zero. University ·sonod that there was no such thing as 
On Sept. 21, 1997, Kansas State nothing, thus something had to have while eruising off Collegian created the heavens and tlw Earth. the coast of Virginia, Something must be moving the sun, the zero struck, and stars and the moon, and that something 80,000 horsepower beeame worthless. was God. The Yorktown's computers had just Christianity adapted Aristotle's theory received new software to run its to much of early Christian theology. engines. Unfortunately, a single zero Everything was fine until the 1500s that was supposed to be removed from when Henaissanee thinkers mdiscovernd the software slipped by engineers. It lay zero and realiznd that if nothing does hidden until the ship's computer system exist, then Aristotle's theory is 11awnd at tried to divide by zero, and everything a very fundamental level. The Catholie shut down. Chureh was left with two ehokes: Either 
Charles Seife relates this story in his accept zero and see their faith destroyed 2000 book, "Zero: The Biography of a or rejeet it and preserve their thnology. Dangerous Idea." He notes, "The biggest They chose the latter and zero soon questions in science, religion, mathe­became labeled ~ts a dcvien of heretics, matics and philosophy are about noth­and the teaching of it was banned by the ingness." chureh. llowovnr, not even the Catholic 
Too often, we have not paid attention Church could contain znro. Despite the to our history and the evolution of con­Papal ban, the teaehing of zero contin­cepts. In particular, the concept of noth­ued and eventually the West was foreed ing or zero has important implications to aecept this most dangm·ous of all eon­for where our soeiety has been and copts. where it is going. Ultimately, Seife puts it bnst when he 
It is dil'fieult for us to imagine it today, reminds us that, "No other number can but there was a point in time when do such damage. Computer failwes like nothing wasn't anything at all. Dr. the one that struek the Yorktown are Hobert Kaplan writes in his book, "The just a faint shadow or tho power or zero. Nothing That Is," that zero first Cultures have grinded against it, and appeared in the Babylonian civilization philosophies have erumblnd beeause of around 300 B.C. it. This why it has been feared, hated 
The West did not respond favorably to and even outlawed." this Eastern concept. The most impor­Learning from the Yorktown and from tant reason for the West rejecting zero is past eivilizations, the zel'o is not a thing that zero broke the rules of mathematies to be feared. It should be rnvored. established by Western civilization. 
One of thesn bask rules is the axiom This column originally appeared in the of Archimedes, which states that if you daily publication ofKansas State add a number to itself enough times, it Uni11ersity, the Kansas State Collegian. will exceed any other number in magni­on March 17. tude. We see that 1 + 1 = 2 and 1 + 1 + 1 The views exprt~ssed in this article are = 3. those of the author and not necessarily 
However, this is not true of zero. Add those of The Obser11er. 
On Marl'h K, history was rnadt•. The thn~n-ynar national hoyeot.t against Taco Bnll P.ndt~d aftN Taco Boll and its parnnt eompany, Yum Brands, agrnnd to mPnt llw d!'nlltnds of thn farm workers who pick llw tomalons thny us!' in llwir produets. Tho Coalition of lmmokalnn WorkPrs was demanding a one cnnt. inrrnasn for nvPry pound of tomatoes that Taco Bell buys to rwarly double thn salary of tomato pieknrs who had to pick two tons to earn $50 and had been narning tlw same wagns sinen 1978; a strict eode of conduct that guarantnns that thern arn no violations of human rights in thn fip,Jds and obligatp,s Taeo Bell to I'Ut eontracts with companies who violate thn codn; and thrnn-way dialogue betwP-1111 Taco BPII!Yurn. the tomato companies and farmworkers to ronlinun to improve wages and conditions for farmworknrs and to put pressure on other corpora­tions to take rPsponsibility as well. 
Tlw agrtH'tnPnt is historieal because nevnr before had a small group of farmworkers been able to bring to tlw tahln a huge corporation like Taco Bell and Yum Brands, which is thn largest fast food industry in the world. It also snts a trern~mdous prPcndnnt in the movPrnnnt for fair food and eorpo­ratn responsibility. The victory last week is also not just a victory for the farmworkers but for llw soeial justiet~/lahor movmnnnt and for us as students and eonsunwrs. Studnnts playnd a tremendous role in this t~arnpaign bncausn we understood that this struggln was also our struggle. While on the one hand, corporations likn Taeo Bell bmwl'it from the nxploitation of workers at tho bottom of their pro­duction ehain, Uwsn corporations also exploit us by calling us tho "Nnw lledonism G11neration" and claiming that we are mindless consumers who do not can~ about what is behind the products wn eonsumn. 
Thn student pressure in this struggle provnd that students do not want produets that arc produeed under conditions of nxploitation and modnrn-day slavery. Twenty-two univer­sities eut eontraets with Taco Bell or prnvented Taeo Bell restaurants on their campuses since the begin­ning of the boycott. Notre Dame was one of those schools. 


And so I want to take this opportunity to thank everyone who supported this struggle. I thank tho administration for stand­ing behind our prineiples of Catholic Social Tearhing, for listening to our eon­corns and taking aetion to cut our athletic con­traet with Taco Bell. I thank all the faculty and staff who supported our efforts and diseussed the boycott in their elassroorns to raise awareness. I thank all 

thn students who in orw way or· anotlwr participatnd 
in tho struggle; whether it. was by signing a (WI.ilion. 
wnaring a button. protnst.ing/l'lyoring outsidn of t.lw local Taco Bell, going on hungnr strikn or just telling sonworw elsn about tlw boycott. Thnrn is no doubt that our campaign and sacrifi<~ns wnrn a part of the largnr movenwnt that now has proven results. Butthn victory against Taeo Bell is only orw battle-an important onn, but only one, nonnthnlnss. The struggle for ju!-ltice for farmworknrs and fair food continues and now is the time to continuo to build momentum. Wn arn lnl't with the option of either sitting baek and obsnrving this nnw chaptnr in our history or being a part of thn writing of this history. ~~r more informa­tion on the boycott, thn vil:tory, what's next and how to gnt involvnd, visit: www.eiw-onlinn.org. 
Melody Gonzalez sl·nior Pasqurrilla East March 17 


F 
arty years ago, the mem­bers of Ladysmith Black Mambazo could not have dreamed they would end up where they are today. 
It isn't easy for a group to carve its own niche in the musical world, but this is exactly what Mambazo has done. Their unique music, strongly based in the traditional South African style called isicathamiya, can easily be recognized wherever it is played, and it is played often. Since being catapulted to world fame in 1986 with their performance on Paul Simon's "Graceland" album, Mambazo has performed for Noble Peace Prize ceremonies, movie sound­tracks, commercials for Life Savers, 7­Up and Heinz Ketchup, Sesame Street and on numerous other occasions. In between performances the group has released numerous albums. The group has also performed with American artists including Stevie Wonder, Dolly Parton, George Clinton and Ben Harper. 
In 1987, the group won a Grammy Award for Best Traditional Folk Art Album for "Shaka Zulu," their first United States album release. Mambazo was awarded another Grammy for Best Traditional World Music Album on Feb. 
S T 0 R Y B y MAR I A S M I T H 
13 for their recent album "Raise Your Spirits Higher." 
Mambazo's roots go back to the mines of their native South Africa where isi­cathamiya was born. Under apartheid many black South African men were forced to leave their homelands and find work, and often lived in large bar­racks or dormitories. The men often formed choirs and competed against each other in contests as a way to pass the time and remind them of their homes. 
"It was important to sing about their homes and families when living in these inhuman conditions," professor of anthropology and ethnomusicologist Greg Downey said. "These contests were amazing. Because of curfews on weekend nights the men had to go to the barracks before curfew started and leave in morning, so they went on all night." 
Mambazo also competed in the con­tests, but was so good that the singers were soon asked not to enter the com­petitions. They were of course welcome to come and entertain. 
The name Ladysmith Black Mambazo came about as a result of their success in competition. "Ladysmith" is the hometown of former farmer and factory worker Joseph Shabalala, the founder of the group. "Black" refers to black oxen, considered to be the strongest animals on the farm. "Mambazo," a Zulu word for ax, refers to the group's ability to chop down their competition. 
There are several things that set Mambazo apart from their fellow isi­cathamiya musicians as well as from other genres of music. Mambazo's pol­ished harmonies and ability to meld their voices tightly together were not the only thing that distinguished them in competition. Mambazo has the ability to be loud and joyous, but also performs softer and subtler numbers than many of their peers were able to do. 
American music often emphasizes tenor voices, but Mambazo's sound is characterized by the rich and full bass. Although Shabalala himself often sings higher parts, the majority of the group often sings a complicated bass harmony that sounds new and original compared to most choirs. 
Mambazo's music is a point of pride for many South Africans, not least because it represents a sort of artistic victory over apartheid. Mambazo's suc­cess is proof that the regime, which was 
Photo courtesy of Patrick Ryan 
so devastating to so many people, was still unable to silence the artistic voice. 
Their music is not strictly traditional, but the vocal style and many of the other elements certainly reflect their home. 
"There are rural elements, like a dis­tinctive call boys will make to call cat­tle," Downey said. "These are elements that remind South Africans of life in the rural countryside." 
As members of the original group have retired, Shabalala has begun to recruit members of his own family to fill in the ranks and keep the group per­forming. Four of his sons now perform with the group. 
Ladysmith Black Mambazo is only one of several institutions of the musical world to visit Notre Dame this year, but they are certainly one of the most unique. Students who get a chance to go are certainly in for a fantastic show. 
Ladysmith Black Mambazo will per­form Sunday at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts at 8 p.m. Tickets cost $15 for students, $26 for seniors, $28 for faculty and staffand $35 for the general public. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

Friday, March 18, 2005

page 2 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS 

Loughrey dancing way toward first Bouts title 
Club president, Dillon RA eager to finish senior season on a winning note 
By ERIC RETTER Sporrs Writer 
In the past four years, Galen Loughrey has spent lots of time moving, honing the precision of his lefts and rights, growing into a rhythm and learning to take control of his partner. A lot of it has been done outside of the boxing ring. 
Loughrey, the senior presi­dent of the boxing club, has also been an active dancer during his time at Notre Dame, both recreationally and as a member of the Ballet Folklorico, which performs" every year at events such as Latin Expressions. 
"Dancing has been something I've picked up a lot more here at Notre Dame," he said. "I danced before but here it fos­tered the environment to dance even more. There's a lot more people with that things," Loughrey said. 
Loughrey's boxing career began conventionally enough for a Notre Dame lighter, stem­ming in large part from an ath­letic curiosity in the mind of a freshman former athlete. In four years, however, that curiosity has developed itself into a definitive facet of his student life. 
"Now, it's become almost like a religion for me, you get up with that expectation, 'oh yeah, I get to go to the boxing room today,'" he said. 
Perhaps the biggest draw that room had for Loughrey doesn't even involve the work­out or the gloves, but the oth­er people inside. Dating back to his upbringing· in Albuquerque, New Mexico, Loughrey has always had an affinity for a community based way of life. 
"Looking back on everything, 
I like to have peo­

same interest." ple around me, 
Undoubtedly, "If you watch some because I think Loughrey recog­ofthe greatest it's nice to see nizes that his time when people
boxers, they knew 
on the dance floor develop and to be
how to dance
can profoundly able to add some­strengthen his around the ring.,, thing to the work in the box­development of ing room. somebody else,"
Galen Loughrey
"Muhammed he said. 

boxer
Ali, they consid­With this in ered him the best mind, it comes no dancer, just surprise that, in because in the boxing ring, a addition to his leadership lot of it takes footwork. · You responsibilities for the boxing can't just stand in the ring and club, Loughrey also serves as a expect to pound down the resident assistant in Dillon other guy," Loughrey said. "If Hall. It is there where he can you watch some of the greatest even more comprehensively boxers, they knew how to nurture the environment dance around the ring." around him towards a greater 
While naturally inclined to community character. the more harmonic aspects of "When I am in my room, I the sport, Loughrey also felt always keep my door open just himself quickly drawn to box­for [my residents] in case they ing's more fatiguing sides. want to stop by," he said. 
"Physically, it was one of the Judging strictly by his lead­most grueling things I've ever ership positions, discipline done. I never expected to do so seems to play a strong role in many pushups, so many situps. Loughrey's approach to his My body was tired at the end of day-to-day life. Indeed, he has the day, but it felt good to be always tried to use his time exhausted and be able to be well and to make his work as mentally focused on other constructive as possible, and since becoming a boxer, that sense has only grown stronger. 

"Boxing really forced me to make my time management a lot better," he said. "I couldn't be wasting these minutes just sitting around. I was constantly on my feet moving, and it kept life interesting for me." 
However, an interesting life 
Observer 


isn't always an easy one, and ing, were all giving something, he points out that his busy but I think at Notre Dame you schedule sometimes forces him learn how to give even more,'' to make sacrifices between two he said. "There are so many positives. different ways that you can 
"I feel real bad for my resi­give, I think that ref1ects a lot dents, because sometimes I feel in the community building." I'm not there as much as I While he may already have should be. In that sense I feel ideas of himself as doctor or 
like I've kind of  family  man,  
neglected them,"  Loughrey has by  
he said. In all work, it  of is  his not  "Boxing really forced me to make  no means over­looked his final weeks as a Notre  
surprising that he already has some idea of what the Galen Loughrey of  my time management a lot better."  Dame boxer. Through his three previous tourna­ments, Loughrey  
2025  will  look  has yet to win  a  
like. Loughrey, an ALPP Spanish major, hopes to  Galen Loughrey boxer  Bengal Bouts title, losing in a first-round split  
return  to  his  decision  as  a  

home in Albuquerque, where freshman before falling in the he can put the skills that he semifinals his sophomore and cultivated in the boxing club junior year. While he looks for­and Dillon Hall into a real ward to competing for a cham­world application, intending to pionship this year, Loughrey start a family one day and has already reached his loftiest become a pediatrician in the boxing goals. local community. "My biggest achievement this 
"Mostly, I'll go back to the year has been to see the community to return the favor amount of people who have that was given to me," he said. stuck through with it and who "That's a big draw for me to go have donn well, especially first back homo, to not just take ynar boxers," he said. "It's what was given to me and run, always a dream to be there at but to take what was given to thn finals, but more than any­me and givP back." thing, it's been well worth it." 
In talking about his experi­This year, whether Galen ences as a part of the Notre Loughrey the .boxer wins or Dame Boxing club and student loses in this year's Bengal body, Loughrey gives the Bouts, Galen Loughrey the man impression of man deeply in has already come out of the touch with the university that experience dancing, with his has served as his home for the head held deservedly high. past four years. 
"More than anything, Notre Contact Eric Retter at Dame has come to mean giv-eretter@nd.edu 
Friday, March 18, 2005 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page 3 




A family affair 
Kevin Kerrigan and son Colin have both won multiple Bengal Bout titles 
DnspitP this sntbaek, the
By MIKE GILLOON 
Kerrigans' five Bengal Bout 
\pons Editor 
championships solidify their plaeo as orw of tho host fatlwr­
Colin Knrrigan was only in son boxing tandnms in school high srhool wlwn hn lnarrwd history. what so many hoxPrs lwforn "Yeah, I'll give that a try" him had found out tlw hard Kovin was a nwmber of the way. Irish wrostling. team his frosh­
"My dad had his hands up, I man ynar of I IJ6S. But Jato in was hilling him and it was gd­tlw fall snnwstnr lw roenived ting to t.lw point wlwrP I was two pink slips notifying him of adually hurling his hands," poor tu:adnmic: pnrformancn. said Knrrigan, a snnior and So hn quit the team to f'oeus on two-tiJJw Jlpngal Bouts champi­studying. on. "liP was !.Piling nw to stop llis gradns soon improved and I wasn't stopping lwt·.ausP I and when thn nnw snnwster was having so much fun. lin lwg an hP sn a relu~ d f'o r ail kPpl warning mP activity. and t'VPnlually ht• "It was too late
''I'm the youngest 
hil nw. I fnll to to go baek to the thP ground wil h <~{Jitw hoys. It was wrnstling team. So I was looking
thn hrnath interesting having 
knorkPd out of around for some­
so many older
nw and I lnarrwd thing to do and rny IPsson." brothers. You get tho Bengal Bouts As hP hit thP WPI'Il advertised,"
heal up a lot and 
floor thai day a Kevin said. "My
you get used to
fnw yPars hark, dad had bPon a Colin\ nanw was gelling !zit a lot. " <ioldnn Gloves addPd to lhP lisl boxer so I thought of 111!'11 who had 'Yeah, I'll give
Colin Kerrigan
rhaiiPngPd tlwir that a try."'
boxer

l'al.hPrs' boxing Likn his father, skills and Colin had a PIHIPd up on tlwir backs. wrestling background before 
lfis dad. Class of l<J72 alum competing in thn Bouts. llis Ktwin KPI'I'igan. sluggod his high school team won the statn way to thrPP BPngal Bout title during his senior year in 
rhampionships in tlw early Summerville. S.C. But the I 1J70s. lin was known around wrestling room was not the caurpus for his fierce puneh only place where Colin devel­and aggrtlssivn style. opnd mental and physical 
"I would just go out thorn toughnnss. whaling," Kevin said. "I was ''I'm the youngest of' five morn ~!f a lightnr than I was a boys," Colin said. "Wn all wres­hoxnr. tled in high school so there 
Morn than 30 years after was a lot of wrnstling and Knvin dneidnd to join the Notre roughhousing. It was interest­Damn boxing dub, Colin fin­ing having so many older is lw d u p h i s Be n ga I Bo u t brothers. You get beat up a lot a punch," Kevin said. "They Colin had a talent for boxing going out there and trying to earner Wednesday night when and you get used to getting hit were his early training experi­even at a very early age. pp,rform and raisn money for a hn was upsnt by Brian a lot." ence." "All the boys loved to puneh good eause." Nicholson in tho 165 lb. semi "All of his brothnrs take Now a doctor residing in me but he always had a harder Still the same linals. crndit for his being able to take Summerville, Kevin noticed punch for his age than his Thirty-three years after 
brothers did," Kevin said. graduating from Notre Damn. 
Just like his dad, Colin dons­KPvin appreciates what his n't consider himself very time in South Bend did for his skilled in boxing toehnique. successful earner in nwdirirw. "I would say I'm morn of a "I attribute my Notnl DamP brawler," Colin said. "I try to degree to getting nw into nH•d­
do technique. But whon it , ieal sdwol," Kevin said. "Wiwn comes down to it, if' I'm gntting I went to interviews I could toll hit. I generally try to hit baek." tlwy were vnry imprPssnd I 
Fighting for others was from Notre l>anw." 
The Korrigans have bloodied Now with his son about to nosns and handed out bltu:k graduate. Kevin SI'OS a NotrP oyos in the boxing ring. But Danw community vPry similar outsidP the ropes they art~ soft­to tlw one lw lwlonged to in spoken, modest and giving. tlw 1970s. Colin is an Hi\ in Fislwr llall "It's bPnn surh a wondPrful and is involvnd in Air Force nxpnrinnrn sPning two of my HOTC. Knvin worked overseas boys go through tho Sl'hool," as a doctor in tho Navy until Kevin said. KyiP KPrrigan Colin was in the lil'th gradn. graduated from Notre Danw in 
It may be this passion for 2002. "Tiw sanw traditions arP serving others that has given thorP. ThP· sanw stl'iving for the Kerrigans the drivn to (:orn­exenlltliH' P is i n t h P a tm os­pnto in thn Bnngal Bouts. plwn~." "It's nice to know that you're Colin is a civil Pngirrt>Pring gPtting your faee beat in for a major, ynt will work in r.tHnmu­good reason," Colin said. "Tho nieations for the Air Fo1·rn Bengal Bouts show tlw way af'tnr graduation this May. that Notre Damn uses every­"I don't know what I rnally thing to give baek to tho com~ want to do for a Cltr·nPr." Colin munity. I think that's tllln thing said. "I'm not ewn sot on t'ivil that Notre Damn is n~ally good nngi nnn1'i n g." at -finding ways to usn all of No mallPr what r.arPPr Colin its good fortune and success to evnntually sPttlns into. lw will help others who arnn't as for­be helpt>d by llw lnssons hn has tunate." lnanwd from his father. 
llis father agrees. "My dad is a vnry kind IWr­"The Bengal Bouts have gmw son. "Colin said. "lin's modPsl., on for so long and I think he's got good integrity. That's they've played a big role in the something I try to emulate." lives of so many young men." · Kevin said. "It's all for the joy Contact Mike Gilloon at of the sport. It's just about mgilloon@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 18, 2005 
130-pounds
126-pounds 


PICKS 
MATT PUGLISI 
Sarpong 
MIKE GILLOON 
Gallegos 
KATE GALES 
Sarpong 
BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Gallegos 

Quick-fisted Peter Sarpong will square up against Daniel "Too Short" Gallegos in the featherweight divi­sion. Sarpong operates with a fast pace, throwing a multitude of left jabs to set up his quick, inside right hooks. 
Gallegos will have to overcome a slight reach dif­ferential if he wants to win the bout. He did so in his semifinal match against Steve Buchanan with power­ful, efficient right hooks and strong jabs. 
With Sarpong and Gallegos each winning unani­mous decisions in their semifinal fights, this match has all the potential of lasting the full three rounds. Sarpong will hope to have a better final round than he did in his last bout, where he let David Rowinski take control for the final minute. 
PICKS 
MATT PUGLISI 
Goldrick 
MIKE GILLOON 
Valenzuela 
KATE GALES 
Goldrick 
BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Valenzuela 
Long-armed Thomas Goldrick fights Jon Valenzuela in the 130 lb. final. Valenzuela has deci­sively beaten his opponents with strong, but wild, right-handed hooks in prior matches. Goldrick will try to capitalize when Valenzuela misses with his own powerful right jabs. Goldrick has-shown an abili­ty to deliver punishing blows even when his exten­sion is limited. 
Valenzuela moves around the ring quickly, and that quickness will be important in the final. Goldrick works his opponents best with his effective series of lefts and rights, especially when he forces them into a corner. Valenzuela will look to deliver a quick body shot whenever he gets cornered, as he did in his semifinal, and then turn away from the punches. 
155-pounds 
160-pounds 


PICKS 
MATT PUGLISI 
Loughrey 
MIKE GILLOON 
Panzica 
KATE GALES 
Loughrey 
BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Panzica 

Mike Panzica fights Galen Loughrey in the fmal of the 155 lb. weight class. Panzica will look to keep his hands up better than he did in the semifmal and continue his trend of effective right hooks. 
Loughrey's long reach will help him exploit any poor positioning of Panzica's hands. 
Loughrey showed a commitment to keeping his elbows tucked in during his semifinal match against Chris Calderone, rarely throwing outside punches. 
However, Panzica may have the advantage if the fight goes the distance. 
Loughrey was shaky in his third round but Panzica won his fight with a great final round per­formance. 
PICKS 
MATT PUGLISI 
Christoforetti 
MIKE GILLOON 
Christoforetti 
KATE GALES 
Christoforetti 
BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Christoforetti 

The 180 lb. weight class final pits technically sound Doug Bartels against hard hitting Jim Christoforetti. 
Bartels is lightning quick and displayed effective combinations in routing Dana Collins in the semifi­nal. He also counterpunches well, knocking Collins down on a counterpunch in the first round of that fight. 
Christoforetti hits like a train but is prone to use long arm movements and can be caught with his hands down by quicker fighters. He will try to land a few punches early and daze the faster Bartels. Even if he fails at this, his confidence and tough­ness will keep him fighting back until the last bell sounds. 
PICKS 
MATT PUGLISI 
Basola 
MIKE GILLOON 
Basola 
KATE GALES 
Gorynski 
BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Gorynski 
In the first semifinal match of the 160 lb. weight division, top-seeded Mark "Turn the Other Cheek" Basola showed little mercy for his opponent Adam "Steel Ghost" Burns. 
Basola withstood a third-round rally from Burns to secure a unanimously decided victory. The junior will take on Bobby "The Polish Pistol" Gorynski in the finals. 
Gorynski came out firing against Morrissey junior Daniel Liem. Liem's quick feet could not save him from Gorynski's powerful right hand, and the judges ruled unanimously in favor of the Polish Pistol. Gorynski will need all his strength to outduel Basola. 
180-pounds 
200-pounds 


PICKS 
MATT PUGLISI 
Zizic 
MIKE GILLOON 
Griffm 
KATE GALES 
Griffin 
BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Griffm 
The 200 lb. weight class features the quickness of Johnny Griffin against the precision of Billy Zizic. 
Griffin, who got a bye all the way to the semi­finals, shows no mercy to his opponents and will try to attack the entire fight. His flurries of punches come early and often, but his accuracy is question­able. 
'Zizic, on the other hand, is an extremely accurate boxer. However, he has been caught flat footed and may be vulnerable to Griffin's attacks. 
His counterpunching has been effective, but it will not matter if he can't avoid Griffin's attacks. He yvill try to hit Griffm with some early jabs to try to put the quicker fighter on his heels. 
Friday, March 18, 2005 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page 5 



75th ANNUAL BENGAL BOUTS 
+ Date: Saturday, March 19, 2005 
+ Time: 8 p.m. 

+ Location: Joyce Center Arena 
Defending 2004 Champions 
Nathan Lohmeyer -155 lb. Colin Kerrigan -160 lb. Jim Christoforetti -180 lb. Johnny Griffin -Light Heavyweight 
Fight Previews by Ken Fowler and Chris Khor~y Photos by Erin Vranish 
-· 
Friday, March 18, 2005 

page 6 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS 
Ainting for perfection 
Captain Mark DeSplinter shoots for his third Bengal Bout title in three tries 
could possibly elicit. "That was one of the bigger By BOBBY GRIFFIN "I almost cut my right foot off challenges I've had just during Associare Sports Editor in December," DeSplinter said. boxing, coming back to practice "There was like a wall that fell the first day and not being able on my foot, that almost eut my to get on the balls of my feet, or Mark DeSplinter is used to foot off." run, or hop on my feet," adversity, even though his 9-0-The sophomore had cut DeSplinter said. "There were a earoer record would indieate through three tendons and lot of times I just wanted to give otherwise. cracked a portion of the bone in up and say 'screw this, I don't Taking this undefeat11d mark his foot. want to fight, this is too much."' into the l"inals this year, Confined to a cast, DeSplinter Of course, DeSplinter did not DeSplinter is the No. 1 seed in hobbled into the first day of give up, and this dedication is the 165 lb. weight dass. practice focused on successfully part of the reason why he is so 
He is a two-time champion as coming off the injury and work­successful in the ring. a 160 lb. fighter, and would ing hard to return to his previ­This year, DeSplinter is clear­likely be a throe time winner ous form. ly focusfld on winning his third had it not been for his decision lie did. final in his three years of com­to go abroad in London as a The boxer won his second petition, however he realizes junior. consecutive Bengal Bouts title that the task is difficult. 
DeSplinter started ofT his only months later, against a "Our woight elass is absolute­eareer in a very impressive fighter named Tom Pierce, a ly stacked, especially at the manner, with his two consecu­good friend of DeSplinters. top," DeSplinter said before tive championships. "I almost didn't get to fight Wednesday's semifinal round. 
"My freshman year I won," but I annoyed the people "IPatrickl McMorrow was really DeSplinter said. "I beat a senior enough to where they let me at good, Brian Nicholson went to in the finals." least try," DeSplinter said. the finals last year, and [Colin ed in boxing when he came to quote by Tyson's trainer [Cus 
"Going into the fights, I knew It's not surprising that Kerrigan! has also won two school as a freshman. D'Amatol, "Boxing isn't the I was in pretty good shape. I DeSplinter was able to eome ofT ehampionships," DeS pi inter Looking for something to keep elimination of fear, it's just a remember Pat Dillon this injury in sueh a sueeessful said. him healthy, DeSplinter's older way to deal with it,"' DeSplinter (l)eSplinter's opponent who he manner. Brian "Honey Boy" Nieholson brother introduced him to box­said. beat in the semifinals) telling Mark "Hambo" DeSplinter is tho fighter that DeSplinter ing at Notre Dame, who was a "If you can get in the ring me that I had a pretty easy eomes across as an inten~e will have to be worried about senior at the time. with another guy who is ready route into the semis, but after worker. relentlessly jumping Saturday night. DeSplinter also had a eousin to beat your head off, and you that I didn't know if I was going rope when few others are in the "This is the last year. you who had been involved with canstay in there·and fight back, to beat him." gym. know, I want to do really well," Bengal Bouts as well. you can do basically anything 
These wins are quitn the lie carries himself with an air DeSplinter said. "I just decided to try it out else that comes at you in life." accomplishments for a kid of confidenec, but in a non­While many of Notre Dame's and I just kind of fell in love DeSplinter is a bright individ­whose boxing career was very imposing way. sports fans will be crowding with it lwhen I found out] how ual, who is destined for success close to ending following his The boxer is friendly, but at around their TVs to see who hard it was, and the dedication in whatever forum he chooses. meteoric rise freshman year. the same time, he gives off the will advance to the Sweet 16 on it takes, and what if requires of The lessons that he learns from 
Early into DeSplinter's sopho­very focused attitude that you Saturday, DeSplinter will be you like everyday to just come his time as a Bengal Bouts more year at Notre Dame, would expect from a skilled focused on once again becom­out here and beat yourself to champion will surely manifest months before the Bouts start­fighter. ing a champion. death," DeSplinter said. themselves in a positive man­ed, DeSplinter was climbing DeSplinter laughs about his Nicholson, the No. 2 seed and DeSplinter has also learned ner. over a broken bathroom stall injury now, almost embarrassed DeSplinter's opponent, has had valuable lessons from his box­But before that can happen, when the door broke, splitting to actually admit how he a challenging road to the final, ing, intangibles that he will take DeSplinter is focused on other in half, and subsequently sever­injured his foot. defeating Colin Kerrigan in the on when he takes off his gloves things. ing the champion's foot. However, the senior becomes semifinals. and steps out of the ring for After all, he still has one more 
DeSplinter looked down to more serious when discussing With the success DeSplinter good. fight to win. find a deep gash above his right the hard work he had to put in has had during his time at "It just kind of gives you the ankle, bleeding profusely, much to defend his championship fol­Notre Dame, it is surprising that confidence you need to go Contact Bobby Griffin at worse than any right hook lowing the accident. he was not particularly interest-through life. There is a great rgriffi3@nd.edu 

Broken hand derails Alanis' drealll .of Bouts challlpionship 

Senior trained with pro boxer in LA to prepare for fights 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 

All the hard work was finally paying off for Justin Alanis. 
After a summer spent work­ing out six days a week and a spring break spent sparring against a professional mid­dleweight, the senior Bengal Bout fighter had earned the top seed in the 170 lb. weight elass. 
He sat through the prelimi­naries with a bye and cruised past Tom Digan in the quarter­finals. 
In the semifinals Alanis had his opponent Brad Wanchulak back on his heels. 
Alanis took the offlmsive and caught Wanchulak upside the head. 
Then everything changed. 

Alanis felt a sharp pain in his right hand, but ignored it as the bout eontinued. 
"It hurt really bad but I kept going cause I thought I had sprained it or something, plus the adrenaline was so much that I just had to keep going," he said. 
After a unanimous decision victory, Alanis had time to con­sider the pain in his hand. 
"I got through the third round and won unanimously but when I went baek to the doc­tors I tried to take my glove off and my hand was just killing me," he said. "When I finally got my wrap off there was this huge bump on my hand where the bone was almost sticking out." 
It was then that Alanis real­ized the stunning truth. His right hand was broken just below the pinky and he would have to forfeit the final. The dream he had worked for a full year was shattered and. as a senior, he wasn't going to get another shot. 
He was inconsolable. 
"When I found out I couldn't fight. I was really upset. I didn't sleep that night," he said. 
Alanis developed an interest in boxing when his roommate competed in Bengal Bouts dur­ing his sophomore year. Alanis fought for the first time hisjun­ior year. 
"When junior year came around I deeided to do it," he said. "I went to all the training before Christmas where the rookies basically go. 
"I won my first two bouts, but got beat in the semifinals." The loss in the semis instilled 
a fire in Alanis. 
"Ever since I lost, I wanted to taste victory," he said. "The next day after my loss I was baek in the gym. I worked out six days a week, boxing for two hours and working out for two hours." 
After his grueling summer, Alanis continued working out at Notre Dame. Over spring break, his training took on a professional feel when he sparred with undefeated mid­dleweight Sechew Powell. 
"I pretty much walked into his training facility and asked him if he wanted to spar and he looked at me like 'you want to spar'?"' Alanis said. "He beat the crap out of me a eouple times, but I learned his tech­niques." 
Alanis plans to continue box­ing recreationally when his hand heals, but isn't sure he'll fight again competitively. He has two years of Bengal Bouts eligibility remaining, but he can only use them if he attends Notre Dame for graduate school, which he says he doubts will happen. 
Dan Ward will be deelared the 170 lb. champion by forfeit at Saturday's Bengal Bout finals in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Friday, March 18, 2005 The Observer+ BEN GAL BOUTS page 7 
Black eyes, bloody noses help poor 

Clayton Lougee, left, jabs at the head of Zachary Jara during Lougee's split-decision quarterfinal victory March 3rd. 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Saturday morning prac­tices, hundreds of push-ups and struggles to learn a new technique are all worth it once a boxer feels his fist lifted by the referee to signal his victory. 
But win or lose, the sacrifices boxers make at Notre Dame are ultimately worth it for another, more lasting reason ­the contributions they make to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
The black eyes will fade and the trophies will gather dust, but every Bengal Bouts partici­pant, as well as every fan who buys a ticket, will know he or she changed lives for tho bnttor in one of the world's poorest countries. 
"I would say that the Bengal Bouts are quite unique," said Father Tom Smith, director of Iloly Cross Missions. "Thn lloly Cross Mission has been in Bangladesh for more than 150 years now and the Bengal Bouts have been supporting that mission for 75 years." 
The past 75 years have seen a number of changes to the University, but the support for the Holy Cross Mission in Bangladesh has remained con­stant. 
"It's an unusual commitment that was started by some very good people concerned with supporting our mission in Bangladesh, but also just con­cerned with stretching the hearts of people here at Notre 
Dame to include poor people at a distance," Smith said. The "philanthropic side" of Bengal Bouts is important to 
boxers as  well, according to  
two-time  captain  Nathan  
Lohmeyer.  

"All the monny that we raise from ticknt sales and from donations and merchandise sales goes to support the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh," he said. 
The finance major is also able to flxplain how the money raised in the US can make such a significant difference in the lives of those in Asia. 
"We raise on average, in tlw past, 55 grand a year," Lohmeyer explained. "One U.S. dollar converts, more or less, to 10 dollars in Bangladesh because of the exchange rates and the volume of the dollar." 
In the four years Smith has been directing the mission, he said that the bouts have raised between $40,000 and $75,000 per year. 
"The number of uses is innu­merable," Smith said. "It depends on the year on what that money is aetually given to, but it's n~ally a very important source of support for the work our eomm unity does among the poor and the very poor in Bangladesh." 
The money is split evenly between the province of priests and the provinen of brothers that the Holy Cross Mission maintains in Bangladesh. 
"They use the money aeeord­ing to what their priority proj­ects among the poor are in the given year that they rnenivn it," 
Smith said. 
Every tkket buyer can know that ho or she has made an important contribution to life in Bangladesh. 
"I Tho money I has boon usnd to build hostels for students who have no othnr way of attending school, to earn for orphans, Iand to I sponsor stu­dnnts in technical schools that we have in order to give thmn skills to enable self support," said Smith. 
Although education is a foun­dation of tlw mission, health earn n~enivns funding as w1~ll. 
"lit funds al program wn have for nwdieal earn for thn indigent -tlw poorest of the poor -who have no otlwr ways to get medical earn," Smith said. 
In a eulturo vnry dil'fornnt from America, Bengal Bouts also assists young wonwn in Bangladesh who are looking for jobs. 
"Funding has bonn used in programs to support young women in terms of life skills training," said Smith. 
The swollnn lips and sore knueklns will soon be forgotten, although tho chipped tooth and dnntal bills could take morn .> time to forget. But the main purpose of the Bengal Bouts ­supporting those in need halfway across tho wol'ld ­now boasts 75 years of staying power. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Bookstore Basketball Team Registration 
$20 per tean1 

c;o ONLINE-to \'·1\r\,r.ND.EDlT/~BKSTR tq find out hol'l to register )TOur team! The online registration ser,.rice '\rill close at !1:59pm on Fri(la)r, so register )Tour team toda,T!!!
.,. 

..~1 registration \viii take place ot1lit1e -}Jayntetlt by creclit carcl. 
Captain's r-vieeting: Tuesday, I\..farch 29@ 7:30ptn, 101 P~lh1J!2!2. 

...... 
,--­
' 
' 
page 8 Friday, March 18, 2005
The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS 
Front Nappy to No-w 
The Bengal Bouts celebrate 75 years of flying fists and dedicated Darners 

By ERIC RETTER Sporrs Writer 
Knute Hockne would never have guessed it. The Notre Dame Boxing Club, a team he founded in 1923 for the primary purpose of keeping his football squad conditioned in the off-season, is now the largest collegiate boxing club in the country outside of the military academies, and arguably the most famous and visible intramural athletic pro­gram in America. 
This year, the club celebrates the 75th anniversary of the Bengal Bouts, the annual boxing tournament first started in 1931 by Dominic "Nappy'' Napolitano, a name deserving the same respect as Hockne, Parseghian and Leahy in the lore of Notre Dame athletic history for his efforts with the Bengal Bouts and the Boxing Club. In the half century spanning their inception in 1931 through his retirement as coach iQ 1980, Napolitano put all his energy into the Bengal Bouts, and he 
along with Terry Johnson, most responsible for continuing the program since Napolitano's death in 1986. 
"I got very close with him my freshman year [1967J," he said. "I came back to be in the devel­opment office in '73 so I was able to be there when he tried the transition in the coaching." 
While he was the mentor to many of them, Napolitano was always their coach, and under his tutelage, numerous notewor­thy accomplishments took place in the boxing ring. The most impressive of these achieve­ments is also the rarest: in the history of the program, only 9 fighters have won the champi­onship for four straight years, the first of these, Bill "Zip" Hoerner, won his titles in the early 1940s. 
These achievements become even more impressive when one realizes that, especially in more recent years, they exactly match the length of the champion's boxing careers. 
"Very few people who have 
gone through 

came to per-· 
this program sonify the Notre have had any Dame tradition boxing expe­he created. rience 
"Nappy was before," the guy and the Suddes said. coach for "You come in, almost 50 its new, you years," current learn it, you boxing coach throw your­Tom Suddes self into it, said. "This was and some­his life at Notre times you Dame." only fight one 
In his passion year and for and dedica­sometimes tion to the pro­you pght all 
gram and to the young men who fought in it, the childless Napolitano turned a countless number of fighters into his surrogate sons over the years. 
"He was a great coach and a wonderful man," Suddes said. "He was literally a father figure to so many kids coming through." 
Suddes should know. He was not only one of those sons, but has been the coach and the man, four. 
However, champion or not, every boxer has made a serious physical commitment in return for membership and the right to compete in the Bengal Bouts. Each year, boxers have typically gone through 6 weeks of intense training and preparation leading in to the tournament. 
The Bengal Bouts serve as the culmination of up to a half­semester's worth of pushups, situps, sparring and condition-ing. 
"The boxing reputation as one of the most demanding sports holds true, especially here in the boxing club," current Boxing Club president Galen Loughrey said. 
Throughout these 75 years, thousands of young fighters have willingly traded countless hours of sweat and practice time for the opportunity to fight in the Bouts -an opportunity that ends each year in 4-and-a-half minutes or less for exactly half of them. 
Why tl).en, have so many men committed so much of their time and energy for a guarantee of 1 match that might not even last as long as the time it takes to dress for it? 
Maybe it's because the Bengal Bouts represent something big­ger than a chance to win a championship. 

Former Bengal Bouts director Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano, second from left, talks with club presidents [from left] Val Bernabo, Matt Connelly and Tom Suddes In 1971. 
The tournament derived its "I think that's what kept it name from the Holy Cross alive so long, the passion behind Mission compound in Daka, it, to be able to be part of some­Bangladesh, a city that was for­thing that's greater than you'll merly called Bengal. The mis­ever be," Loughrey said. sion, which has been in Daka for The Boxing Club has been 150 years, is growing recently, made up a school, and this year 135 college, seminary, "Nappy was the people participated orphanage and guy and the coach in the bouts. At the hospita!, all of 75th anniversary of
for almost
which depend , the Bengal Bouts, heavily upon 50 years. there has been donations. much reflection 
Each year, after and recommitment
Tom Suddes
covering expens­to the values of the 
boxing coach 
es, the Boxing club. This year, the 
Club donates 100 percent of the money raised from the Bengal Bouts to the mission. Annually, the Boxing Club's contribution is the highest single contribution the missions receive. In 1931, the missions received $500 from the Boxing Club. 
This year, the fundraising goal is $75,000. 
"A dollar here is ten dollars there. We send over 50, 60, 70 thousand dollars. That's like a half a million dollars over there, so you can actually buy an awful lot of stuff and take care of an awful lot of people," Suddes said. 
The charitable aspect of the program is what set it apart in its foundation and continues to set it apart today. 
Napolitano's slogan "Strong bodies fight so that weak bodies may be nourished" has become the mantra of the Bengal Bouts. However, even in defeat, the program has shown to have enriching qualities for the box­ers just through their participa­tion. 
"''ve gotten a bunch of e-mails from guys who just said, 'my gosh, it was the best thing that ever happened to me at Notre Dame, and I use the stuff I learned in boxing every single day,"' Suddes said. 
Because their time is dedicat­ed to the well-being of others, boxers come away with an intensely personal sense of achievement. This enables the 
Nappy Legacy Society was founded, celebrating Napolitano's contribution and also raising money for the mis­sions by inviting Boxing Club Alums to make a $750 dollar donation. 
However, now is also a time to look forward. 
"Where will this program be in 25 years? I could easily see this on lV, a little more coverage of the fights then," Suddes said. "I think this will be one or those great programs at Notre Dame that celebrates its lOOth anniversary with a great night of fights and great kids coming through." 
In all his years with the Bengal Bouts, one night from 1976 stands out clearly for Suddes, specifically the fight between linebackers Jimmy Browner and Doug Becker. 
"It was the best light I've ever seen in all these years. Those guys went at it toe-to-toe for three rounds. There were 10,000 people in the ACC who just stood up the whole time. Those guys just never gave an inch," hP recalled. 
Ilowever, some details have been lost by memory. 
"I honestly don't even remem­ber who won. I'm not even sun~ anyone who was there remem­bers. People were just standing and yelling and cheering," Suddes said. 
And that's why they're still putting on the gloves. 


Andrew McGill, left, and Mike McCann exchange blows during the 140 lb. semifinal of the 75th Bengal Bouts to forge a unique Contact Eric Retter at annual Bengal Bouts. McCann won the fight by unanimous decision. status. eretter@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, March 18, 2005 
page 13 
LEGENDS PREVIEW 
Whild Peach and Stroke 9 to perform this weekend 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Wri1er 
St. Patrick's Day has come and gone and many students am looking for something to fill up tho rost of their weokend. Notrn Dame, Saint Mary's and lloly Cross students nned look no further than the dub side of Lngends on Friday and Saturday night, as an exciting lineup of nntertainment is set for this wnekend. 
Tonight l.egnnds will feature a band called Whild Poach. Whiln most peopln may think tlwy havn nevnr bonn exposnd this band. anyonl' who has ever watchnd Outkast pnrform has alrnady s1wn Whild Peach in action. Tlw band p1~ r forms tlwir· own brand of what it calls "Slunky" music. llip-hop would not bn possible without tho instrumnntal work of a band lik1~ Whild !'naches behind the rappnrs. In tlw last 10 ynars. Whild Poach has worked on projects with various musi­dans, including Sleepy Brown, Goodie Mob and Joi. It has also bonn featured on "The Scooby l>oo Soundtrack" and "Tho Ali Movie Soundtrack." 
Most rneently, it has worked with Outkast sinee its seeond rn1:ord. Aeeording to their press information. "Outkast and Whild Pnaeh formed a rlda­tionship that ineludnd eo-writ­ing, lPnding a hand on vocals and instrumentation and evnn­tually manifnsted itself as Whild Peaeh beeoming the backup hand on tho groups tours." Whild Peach will be pnrl'orming some of their origi­nal works as well as all the songs it pnrformed on Outkast albums including "Ms. Jackson," "So Frnsh, So Clean," "Jiey Ya" and "The Way You Move" tonight at Legends at 1 0 p.m. 
The mood of Legends wHI be very different on Friday than on Saturday night, but the quality of the acts will be just as good. Stroke 9, a rock band originally from Northern California, will be rocking Legends on Saturday. · 
The band is currently a rock group with three members. What began as a class project for aeademic credit quickly bAeamn thfl basis for Stroke 9 in the fall of 1990. Saturday night's show will be one of the first promoting the group's lat­est album, "All ln." 
The history of the band mem­bers is a bit complicated, but bngan with Luke Esterkyn, the lead guitarist, when he started Stroke 9 for his senior thesis for academic credit in California. Soon following that John McDermott joined Stroke 9 as the guitar player. The band continued to develop as Eric Stock joined the band on drums in 1997, Gueldn11r moved to bass and the band took on the shape it continues today. 
Stroke 9 has released three albums entitle "Boy Meets Girl." "Bumper to Bumper" and "Nasty Little Thought," which went gold in 2000. Stroke 9 unquestionably has experienee and will cArtainly roek tho crowd at Legends. 
Both Whild Peach and Stroke 9 are well known bands and promise high-quality perform­ances this weekend. Both shows start at 10 p.m. and are open to all Notre Dame. Saint Mary's and I Ioly Cross students. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

Whild Peach Is best known as the backing band for Outkast, and performs hits Including "Ms. Jackson," "So Fresh, So Clean," "Hey Ya" and "I Like the Way You Move." 

Stroke 9 hails from northern California, and was first formed by guitarist Luke Esterkyn In 1990 as part of a senior thesis project. Stroke 9 has released three albums to date. 
PAC REVIEW 
Ronan Tynan's performance powerful but lengthy 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN Scene Wrirer 
A night of music provided by Honan Tynan, VincA Gill and the Notre Dame Glee Club produced some powerful moments, but it eould have det1nitely employe.d t~e philosophy or "less talk, more adron. 
Tynan, aeeompanied by a well-sized orchestra direetnd by Brian Byrne at thn Leighton Concert llall, bngan his perform­anco with a J.,rrnat rendition of "Man of La Mancha," a song that pnrfeetly fits his gar­gantuan tenor voice. The man is definitely largnr than lifo; it was surprising to sec how much taller he is in front of a concert audinnce as comparnd to whon he's on a TV screen singing at Yankee Stadium. 
"There's a reason they know me as 'Shrnk'," Tynan joknd, flicking his pointed oars back. 
Throughout the evening Tynan dis­played two dif1(1nmt types of vocal timbre: his naturally deep and carrying voice in such songs as "Amazing Gracn" and "Coming from the Hain," but a more unanchornd voice in quieter· ballads such as "EiliB." Several times he made the dynamie transition from soft to full, and each time his voien changed radically. Listeners would probably have identilied the deeper sound as Tynan's unique, won­derful voiee. Perhaps he can lind a way to better connect that sound to the lighter (and lower) moments of his repertoire. 
Gill eame on in spots of each of the aets, performing selected works on guitar and accompanied by cohort John Hobbs on piano. Gill playnd some good country music ­but he sure loved to talk. 
"I'm guessing you're wondering what the hell I'm doing here, aren't you?" he asked the audience, jibing at the concert's asso­ciation with con­temporary elassi­cal and eountry music. 
Bntween each of his songs Gill told jokes, exchanged ribs with Tynan, and reminisced 


about the severities of his father. Both 
musicians had the audience laughing sev­
eral times, but it delinitely prolongnd the 
evening. It's a shame too, because when 
they finally did make music together, they 
were fantastic; they gave an awesome 
rendition of Simon and Garfunkel's 
"Bridge Over Troubled Waters," and more of that stuff -rather than an overdose of jokes and story sharing -would have been extreme­ly satisfying. Tynan and Gill also used their music to relay their relationships with their families, and they did so very poignantly. Tynan performed "Passing Through," a song he wrote along with help from Byrne in tribute to his moth­er who ails from Alzheimer's dis­ease. In a recent Primetime Live interview, Tynan 
spoke about how his mothor pushnd him through his physieal handicaps and strug­gles with lownr limb disability, and how this song convnyed that tho woman who guided him so valiantly could nevor onjoy all her son had accomplishod. Meanwhilo, Gill performnd works dedicated to his father, including a hilarious anecdote about his mother verbally terrorizing dad all day long. 
The Glee Club p11rformed snveral tradi­tional songs from the upper choral seats of the Leighton, featuring Gabriel Torrns, Colin Poggo and John Plistor as soloists. Violinist Gregorgy !!arrington also had tho opportunity to pnrform a couple of well­known solo works. Byr.ne, for his part, kept everything in the orchestra running smoothly, as did Dan Stown with the Glen Club. The concert finishnd with some great encores, including U2's "I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For" and Tynan's signaturn interpretation of "God Bless America." 
All in all, it was quite a fun night, but it was also around eleven o'clock when tim show ended, and picking up of the pacP wouldn't have hurt things that much. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 18, 2005 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee pulls off first upset of tourney 
Boston College cruises past Penn; Eastern Kentucky falls to Wildcats 
Milwaukee, which has won in 191S1.
Associated Press 10 straight and 18 of 19, will l'Pnn (20-9) didn't have a mas­CLEVELAND -Wiseonsinc play fourth-seeded Boston cot for its big game. Instead, the Milwaukr1n's players didn't College (25-4) Saturday in the Quakers came out with fashion­madly chase eaeh other around sflCOIHI round of tlw Chicago able new blue-and-white shoes the rioor or do anything Hegional. -a reward for making the tour­extraordinary to celebrate the McCants, the Horizon's player nament -and a determination biggest win in sehool history. of the year whose college to keep the arena rocking. The Panthers are above all career has included stops at Boston Colleg(~ wasn't in the that. This was busin-nss as Northwestern and a junior col­mood for any messing around, usual. lege in Texas, arrived at the not. after what's happened lately. "We expected this," forward Wolstein Center with a freshly After the Eagles opened with .Joah Tucker said. "It's wasn't a shaved head. those 20 straight wins, they big surprise for us." The senior psychology major dosed with a 4-4 fade that Wisconsin-Milwaukee. whose did the same thing earlier this included a first-game loss to players were briefly barred season before scoring 26 points West Virginia in the Big East from practicing Wednesday in a loss to Kansas. tournament. Coach AI Skinner when they couldn't produce "It was time to do it again," usfld the unexpected time ofT to their student-IDs, pulled ofT the he said. "I do a lot of silly fix a few things. first stunner of the NCAA tour­things, superstitious things. I The first adjustment involved nament, beating Alabama 83-73 had a good game against attitude. There would be no on Thursday. Kansas, so I figured I might as more coasting. Now everyone knows the well get back that mind-set." "We've got to prove ourselves Panthers. While McCants and every day," said Dudley, who led Tucker and Ed McCants Milwaukee were focused, five players in double figures. scored 21 points apiece as Alabama's players were out of Boston College's defense held Milwaukee (25-5) won its first sync from the outset. the Quakers to 33 percent shoot­NCAA tourney game in its sec­Alabama turned the ball over ing in the decisive first half, ond try. Two years ago, the 19 times, twice in the final when the Eagles led by as many 12th-seeded Panthers nearly minute while trying to rally, and as 22. The only glaring flaw was knocked ofT Notre Dame. losing the Crimson Tide didn't play the Eagles' 19 turnovers, whieh 70-69. their usual defense as the allowed the Quakers to dose in. The underrated Horizon Panthers first bombed away Penn made a run at the start League champions finished the from the outside before going to of the second half behind Tim job this time, outplaying one of the basket. Begley, the Ivy League's Player the SEC's top programs and Boston College 85, Penn 65 of the Year. He hit a long 3 to continuing a trend of No. 12s The offense and the trash talk beat the shot dock, helping the beating No. 5s in March. That flowed. The self-doubt was gone, Quakers cut the lead to 54-45. first-round matchup has pro­replaced by an almost-forgotten Skinner's biggest concern van­"I just felt comfortable with gy, somewhat of a spark," duced an upset in 16 of the swagger, ished eight minutes into the my range and shot it," he said. Hayes said. "I challenged past 17 tournaments, the only Whatever ailed Boston College game, when top reserve "It went in, so I decided to take myself to get every rebound exception being in 2000. got fixed in a hurry. Jermaine Watson showed he a second one." and work my way around my For 40 minutes, Wisconsin­The 14th-ranked Eagles could still hit shots despite The Cincinnati bench erupted. man." Milwaukee was the team that emerged from a week of intro­stitches in his left hand. Watson "I knew he had it in him," Kentucky (26-5) extended its looked like it came from the spection and went back to domi­needed the stitches after an teammate Eric Hicks said, NCAA record of tournament power conference. nating Thursday, rolling to a vic­altercation at his off-campus laughing. "One, maybe, but not victories to 94 and is now 37-9 "This is an atypical team from tory over Pennsylvania in the apartment over the weekend. two." in NCAA tournament openers. the Horizon League," Alabama first round of the NCAA tourna­Cincinnati 76, Iowa 64 With the 2~0-pound Maxiell The Wildcats actually have won coach Mark Gottfried said. ment. Cincinnati expects blocked dominating the inside, 96 NCAA tournament games, Kennedy Winston had 20 At every turn, Boston College shots and rebounds from Jason Cincinnati showed a decidedly but were forced to forfeit two points and Ronald Steele 16 for (25-4) got back to playing like Maxie!!. But 3-pointers? more physical game and threat­wins in 1988 because of NCAA the Crimson Tide (24-8), who the team that didn't lose a game The 6-foot-7 senior had 22 ened to run away from the rules violations. They will face had hoped to have another run until Feb. 8. points, nine rebounds, six Hawkeyes (21-12) almost from Cincinnati in Saturday's sec­like a year ago when they made "We were very aggressive, we blocked shots, a pair of steals the start. ond-round game of the Austin it to the round of eight. But made shots," said Craig Smith, and the first two 3-point bas­Kentucky 72, Regional. Alabama got outplayed by a who had 15 points and 13 kets of his college career Eastern Kentucky 64 The Colonels (22-9) weren't lesser-known opponent from a rebounds. "It was kind of like Thursday in a first-round They slowed Kentucky's fast about to let the Wildcats coast. little-known conference playing how we started 20-0. I definitely NCAA tournament victory over break, shut down the Wildcats Instead, they limited Kentucky in a friendly arena. feel we have our swagger back." Iowa. on the perimeter and even stole to 2-of-11 shooting from 3­"This is what March is all Jared Dudley led a versatile The Bearcats (25-7) advanced. some of their state rival's fans. point range and got within five about," Wisconsin-Milwaukee attack with 18 points. The to Saturday's second round of But the Eastern Kentucky points in the last two minutes. coach Bruce Pearl said. "We Eagles went 7 -of-1 0 from behind the Austin Regional against Colonels couldn't stop the sec­The difference was represent the rest of that high . the arc in the first half, when Kentucky (26-5), which won its ond-seeded Wildcats' powerful Kentucky's dominant interior non-major level of basketball. Penn drew in its defense, then opener over Eastern Kentucky inside game. game. Hayes and Azubuike These guys feel they can play at passed inside for easy baskets at the RCA Dome. Chuck Hayes and Kelenna combined for 15 rebounds, and that level, and they're getting and pulled away in the second. Maxiell had missed all five 3-Azubuike overpowered the Kentucky had a 42-24 scoring the opportunity to show it in On Saturday, Boston College point attempts he had taken in_ Colonels. Each scored 16 advantage in the paint. this tournament." will be going against its former his first 127 games with points, and Azubuike ignited an "They're a very physical If anyone has a home-court mascot. Milwaukee's Bruce Pearl Cincinnati. But in the closing 8-0 run early in the second half team," Colonels forward advantage it's the Panthers, failed to make the Eagles' bas­minutes against Iowa, with the of Kentucky's first-round victo­Michael Haney said. "He who won here three weeks ago ketball team as a walk -on and game already decided, he shot ry Thursday. (Hayes) is very strong. He and have four straight victories filled in as the feathery mascot twice from long range and hit "It was obvious from the first always kept a body on me and on Cleveland State's home floor. for one NCAA tournament game both. half that we needed some ener-pushed me out of the post." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Summer Camp Counselor for chil-OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 KNOLLWOOD HOME FOR RENT, dren w/disabilities. Must have rm, 2 bath. For details LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask 4BD,2.5 BATH,$1650. 858-722­NOTICES strong work ethic and be interested fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES about FREE student rent program. 4469. 
in making a difference in the life of LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS-Blue &Gold Homes (574)250-7653 Get paid to think. Make $75 taking a child. $7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, sum-ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED· CORBY ST. HOUSE 4 RENT. MAY­on-line surveys. mer only. 6 sites in Summit County, ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING JULY. CALL 284-5223. www.moneyauthor.com Ohio. Must enjoy outdoor activities. FOR RENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
Visit www.akroncyo.org to down-SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL Walk or bus to carnpus. 4 br/2b load an application from the Job Great 6-7 bdrm home available MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM newly remodeled. Laundry,garage. Opportunities link. EOE 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail-ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-574-876-8571
WANTED 
able NOW. Both Close to 2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7-6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND 8·10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER Internet Canopy access. Call Joe GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB-MONTH+ DEP. STAFF AND FAG-
Catholic family offering full time FoR SALE Crimmins 574-229-3659 SITE ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876-PERSONAL summer childcare opportunity; 4 WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR 3537 children ages 6 to 12; Scottsdale Now is the tirne to reserve your CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234· Mall area; 7:30 am to 4:30 96 BMW 328i, white w/gray leather, house for 06-07. Call 233-9947 or 2436 OR 574-315-5032. Close to ND Excellent area. 19237 Typist/Transcriptionist for Faculty & pm;wages negotiable; non smoker; automatic, sun roof, heated seats, go to www.andersonndrentals.com Cleveland,6-7bdrm; 202 E. Cripe Students. Professional results. Call own transportation needed. Call 136k, great car! Under blue book at 2-3 bdrm houses avail. now and 05· 4bdrm; 222 E. Willow 3bdrm. Lori (574)291-9945. Maureen 360-1738. $6300. 607-6680. 2,4 &5 B-Rooms, close to campus, 06. Close to ND. Call 276-2333. 2773097 
call 234-9923, ask for Rod. Omni Properties. Who wants to date Molly? 

Go to Saint Mary's? Want to work for 

THE 
BSERVER 
Then come check out our brand-new office in the basement of the brand-new SMC Student Center! 

Who: writers, photographers, designers, copy editors anyone is welcome to talk with editors What: Observer open house When: Monday at 4 p.m. 
Questions? Contact Megan O'Neil at 284-4403 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­Friday, March 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
Bonds has second knee surgery 
Giants slugger likely to miss opening day and more ofearly season 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -Barry Bonds pushed his surgically repaired right knen so hard that the San Francisco Giants hneame eonccrnod he might be doing too rn uch. Yet, after 19 major league seasons, tho team trusted Bonds knows his body best. 
But on Thursday, Bonds underwent a second operation on tlw knee -a setbaek that makes it unlikely the slugger will hn ready for opening day. 
While the Giants oiTered no timetable for Bonds' return, it took the seven-limo NL MVP more time than expeeted to rncovnr from the original sur­gery on the knee on Jan. 31. 
"This is certain•y a setback, and a signilkant one," general manager Brian Saboan said. "Obviously, we didn't know we wero going to go down this path. Barry did what he felt he 
•~ould tolorate on any given day. I'm glad this happenod now inst•~ad of throe days before the 
SllUSOn." 
Trainor Stan Conte said he could not rule out the possibili­ty of Bonds being ready for the opener on April 5 against the I>odg•~rs. but said it is "not an unrnasonable thing" to assume he'll be sidelined past that datiL 
"It would be pretty incredi­bln, but I've learned with Barry I nevpr say he can't do some­by Ting, and the process took thing," Conte said from spring all day, Conte said. An MRI training at Scottsdale Stadium showed "new tears that had to in Arizona. be addressed." 
The Giants said in a state­"One reason we were so ment that Bonds had arthro­tightlipped is because the scopic: surgery to repair tears process took all day yesterday in the knne, similar to his earli­and into the night to get the er operation. Both procedures results," Conte said. "We had to were performed in the Bay talk about options and we Area by Art Ting. made the decision last night. 
Bonds, 40, has "experienced Bonds made the final decision. periods of "This was a swelling in his necessary pro­knee following cedure to get
"This is certainly a 
an incident him back. The
setback. and a
when he acei­new tears had dentally hit his significant one." to happen after knee on a table the original sur­at SBC Park Feb. gery. His knee
Brian Sabean 
4. Neither rest would swell, we
Giants general manager
nor his current rehabilitation program has helped alleviate the periodic swelling," the Giants said in a release. 
"It was a big blow to begin with and now it's a bigger blow," manager Felipe Alou said before the Giants played the Hangers in an exhibition game. "Now it's real, he's going to be out." 
Conte said the swelling ini­tially was considered a normal part of Bonds' recovery, but when it wouldn't go away he knew something was wrong. 
Bonds returned to San Francisco on Wednesday from spring training to be evaluated 
would take a 
couple of days 

and he'd be fine. It's not unusual in rehab­bing. We felt it was a normal process." 
Bonds, who is expected to return to Arizona next week, hasn't worked out on the field since taking batting practice Sunday. lie hasn't played in any Caetus League games. 
"I think it's pretty crushing," said Moises Alou, who will bat cleanup until Bonds returns and might move over from right field to take Bonds' spot in left. 
Bonds begins the season with 703 homers, third on the career list behind Babe Ruth (714} and Hank Aaron (755}. 
----------~---~----~-----------------­
page 15 
NFL 

Burress signs deal with Giants after all 
Wide receiver had previously said he would not go to NY 
Associated Press 
EAST HUTJIEHFOHD, N.J. ­Free-agent wide receiver Plaxico Burress reached an agreement with the New York Giants on a six-year, $25 mil­lion contract Thursday, a foot­ball source said. 
The deal includes an $8 mil­lion signing bonus, the source told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. 
The agreement comes a week after the Giants said they were no longer interested in signing the speedy former Pittsburgh Steelers receiver, and just days after Burress switched agents. 
Burress met with the Giants eight days ago and rejeetcd an offer that was almost the same as the one he agreed to Thursday. He then fired agent Michael Harrison and signed with Drew Rosenhaus. 
Burress had also visited with the Minnesota Vikings and other teams. 
Burress, who spent the last five seasons with Pittsburgh, brings considerable size and big-play ability to a Giants offense that sorely needs both. 

At 6-foot-5 and 226 pounds, Burrnss has the size and spend to get down the lield and catch the fade pattern in the end zone, whieh no doubt is attrac­tive to Eli Manning heading into his lirst full season as a startnr. 
Burrnss had 35 catches for 698 yards and !ivn touchdowns last season. llis linest season was in 2002, when he had 78 catches. 
The Giants went through most of last season without a deep threat. Tim Carter was lost early in thn season with a hip injury and rookie Jamaar Taylor showed flashes coming back from knee surgery in col­lege. 
Starting receivers Amani Toomer and Ike Hilliard had sub-par seasons, failing to catch a touchdown pass. Toomer is coming off a ham­string injury that bothcn~d him for most of the season, and Hilliard was released Thursday after never fulfilling the promise he had when the Giants drafted him seventh overall out of Florida in 1997. 
The Giants have benn one of the most active teams in free agency, signing linebacker Antonio Pierce from Washington for $26 million and giving Jets tackle Karenm McKenzie $37.75 million to protect Manning. 
-
~l 

Friday, March 18, 2005 CoMPILED FROlv1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 16 
Major League Baseball Spring Standings 
Cactus League  
team  record  perc.  
Colorado  10·5  .667  
San Francisco  9·5  .633  
LA Angels  10-6  .625  
Milwaukee  9·6  .600  
Chicago Cubs  7-7  .500  
Chicago White Sox  8·8  .500  
Arizona  1·8  .467  
San Diego  6·9  .400  
Oakland  6·9  .400  
Seattle  6·9  .400  
Texas  6·9  .400  
Kansas City  5·8  .385  

Grapefruit League 
MLB 
learn 
Atlanta St. Louis New. York Mets Tampa Bay Toronto Cleveland Philadelphia Washington Boston Detroit LA Dodgers Pittsburgh New York Yankees Baltimore Minnesota Houston Cincinnati Florida 

record  perc.  
9·5  .643  
9·5  .643  
8·5  .615  
8·5  .615  
7·5  .583  
8·6  .571  
7-6  .538  
8·7  .533  
8·7  .533  
6·6  .500  
6·6  .500  
7-7  .500  
6·7  .464  
6·7  .464  
6·8  .429  
5·7  .417  
6-9  .400  
540  .333  


Men's Lacrosse Geico/STX Coac s Poll 
team  rec  points  ::=:::;t@i  
1  Johns Hopkins  3-D  199  
2  Virginia  4-tl  190  
3  Duke  6-tl  181  
4  Marytan~  2·1  170  
5  Georgetown  2·1  149  
6 7  Navy Syracuse  3•1.,..... 1;2  139 128  
8  Army  2·1  115  
9  Massachusetts  3·0  103  
9  NOTRE DAME  2·1  103  
11  Princeton  0·2  102  
12  Cornell  1-1  101  
13  Towson  3·1  94  
14  Rutgers  2-0  ,go  
15  North Carolina  1-2  61  
16  Hobart  3·0  47  
17  Brown  2"tl  34  
18  Bucknell  2·1  28  
19  Penn State  2-2  21  
20  Harvard  1-0  9  
20  Stony Brook  ~rt ...  9  
20  Villanova  34  9  

around the dial 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Iowa State vs. Minnesota, 12:30 p.m., CBS New Mexico vs. Villanova, 2:55p.m., CBS Northern Iowa vs. Wisconsin, 7:20p.m., CBS Old Dominion vs. Michigan State, 9:40 p.m., CBS 
MEN'S NIT 

Arizona State at UNLV, 11:59 p.m., ESPN2 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Sitting biceps-to-biceps, some of baseball's biggest stars told Congress on Thursday that steroids are a problem for the sport but denied they are wide­spread. Mark McGwire nearly came to tears and refused to say whether he took the performance· enhancing drugs during the historic home run summer of 1998 or any other time. 
On a day of extraordi· nary theater, the House Government Reform Committee attacked base­ball's new steroid policy, questioning five current and former players. 
Under oath, Jose Canseco -whose best­selling book, "Juiced," said steroids were ram­pant in baseball -repeat­ed his admission that he used them. Sammy Sosa and Rafael Palmeiro said they didn't. McGwire repeatedly avoided a direct response, saying his lawyers advised him not to answer certain ques­tions. 
"If a player answers 'No,' he simply will not be believed, "McGwire said. "If he answers 'Yes,' he risks public scorn and endless government inves­tigations." 
Asked whether he favored a tougher policy, McGwire responded: 
"What anybody can do to improve it so that there's no more meetings like this, I'm all for it." 
And Canseco reversed course from the book, say­ing he now is against using steroids. 
It was an extraordinary sight -some of the top names in baseball history wearing business suits on Capitol Hill instead of uni­forms on a diamond. McGwire wore a green tie, being that it was St. Patrick's Day. 
Two top sluggers who were not present testified in 2003 to a San Francisco grand jury investigating a steroid-distribution ring: Barry Bonds of the San Francisco Giants and Jason Giambi of the New York Yankees. 
In a tense scene, Canseco sat at the same table as the other players as he told the lawmakers that he could not fully answer their questions because of concerns his testimony could be used against him. 
During a break after the players' opening state­ments, five of the stars gathered in one nearby room, and Canseco went to another. 
McGwire, choking back tears, said he knew that steroid use could be dan­gerous and would do whatever he could to dis­courage young athletes from using them. 
IN BRIEF 

Soccer referees fear for safety amid threats from fans 
LONDON -Swedish soccer referee Anders Frisk retired a few days ago, hounded out by death threats sent by e-mail, fax and phone. Swiss col­league Urs Meier needed police pro­tection last summer after receiving 16,000 hostile e-mails in 24 hours. 
Referee Luiz Carlos Silva got in a fistfight in Brazil last weekend when a fan attacked him on the field. 
Who would want such a job? 
"I can guarantee you that, without change, there won't be many of us wanting to referee when you know there's a revolver at your head," said French referee Bertrand Layec, who filed a police complaint recent­ly after his family was threatened. 
Referees are used to abuse. But Frisk's abrupt departure, after what he termed the "worst three weeks" of his life, put the issue on the agen­da when European soccer officials meet next month in Tallinn, Estonia. 
First round of Bay Hill 
called because of weather 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Rain halted play in the Bay Hill Invitational after only three hours Thursday, still enough time for Tiger Woods to hit a shot that made fans nearly drop their umbrellas in utter amazement. 
He finally looked like them. With great anticipation over the threesome of Woods, Ernie Els and 
U.S. Open champion Retief Goosen, the world's No. 1 player led off on the first tee by taking a 6-inch divot with a 3-wood that was lucky to reach the fairway. 
"I've never done that before," Woods said of his 198-yard drive. 
As for a PGA Tour event suspend­ed by weather? Seems like that happens every week. 
Nearly 2 inches of rain saturated Bay Hill Club & Lodge, causing the sixth weather-related suspension in 12 events on the PGA Tour this year. 
Lambiel takes gold at skat­
ing world championships 
MOSCOW -On one of his sport's grandest stages, Stephane Lambie! of Switzerland won a major compe· tition for the first time. 
He captured the gold medal at fig­ure skating's world championships Thursday, capitalizing on the with· drawal of defending champion Evgeni Plushenko. The three-time champion dropped out hours before Thursday's free skate because of a groin injury. 
"I felt so good and so light," Lambiel said. 
Lambiel sandwiched a rough opening and closing seconds around an assured program full of flair. He finished ahead of Jeffrey Buttle of Canada while Evan Lysacek of the United States, at the worlds for the first time, won the bronze medal. U.S. champion Johnny Weir, his foot ailing, entered the free skate in seventh place and rallied to fourth. 
Friday, March 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Zags survive upset attempt by confident Winthrop 
Arizona beats Utah State; Texas falls; Wake Forest wins big 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, 1\riz. -Going from plucky underdog to a favorite in thn NC/\1\ tournament hasn't gonn smoothly for Gonzaga. 
Fourtnenth-sendnd Winthrop llirtml with a Gonzaga-like upset against the third-sended Bulldogs on Thursday night lmfom thn Zags grabbed control late and won 74-64 in the first round of tlw /\I buq u e rq un Hngional. 
"Tiwy had a swagger about tlwm, tlwy wen~ playing with a gn~ at dna I of conndnnee," c;onzaga coar.h Mark Few said about the l~agiPs. "It reminded rnP of our first onn in IIJIJIJ." 
That ynar, tl11~ IOth-snnded Zags pullnd otT tlm~n stunning IIIJSPtS of higJwr seeded teams 
lwforP  losing  to  No.  I  send  
Connnctirut  in  thP  WPst  
HPgional final.  

TIH•y WPrP a I Oth snPd in 2000 and stunrwd No. 7 l.ouisviiiP and No. 2 St. John's. In 200 I. tlwy fnll to a 12th sned and still madP tlw South Hngional semifinals. 
But tlwy lost in the lirst round as a sixth sned in 2002, got lmatnn in tlw second round as a No. <) snnd in 2003 and were hounr.nd out aftnr two games as a No. 2 send last ynar. 
This ymtr almost looked like anotlwr washout. 
"Tlwy had tho slipper on li>r a hit. hut we triPd to takn it ofl' and wn did," said /\dam Morrison, who lnd the Zags with 27 poinL'i. 
The loss snapped Winthrop's 1 H-game winning streak, longest in the nation. Gonzaga (26-4) won its 13th in a row and now has longest. winning streak in Division I. 
"It set itsnlf up pretty well for them to come in here and Jet it rip and they did," Few said about the Eagles. "We played a little tight at the start and to get through this one feels great. llopefully, we'll play much bet­ter in thn second round." 
Neither team led by more than two points until late in the game, which was tied four times in the limtl 20 minutes. 
.J.P. Batista added 14 points and Honny Turial' had 13 points and 13 rebounds li>r Gonzaga. 
Torrell Martin seorml 22 points and made six 3-pointers -both earner highs -l'or the Eagles (27-(>l. who are 0-5 all-time in tho NCA/\ tournament. Phillip Williams lind his career high with 17 points and Craig Bradshaw grabbed I I r<~bounds. 
Arizona 66, Utah State 53 
If Arizona plays thn way it did in the second half' against Utah State, tho Wildcats could be going deep into tlw NCM tour­nanHmt. 
The Wildcats made a complnto turnaround after halftime, quick­ly erasing a three-point deficit and dominating tho /\ggies tho rest of' the way in a win 
Thursday  in  the  Chicago  
Hogional.  
Arizona  (28-6) apparently  

learned al'ter losing in the open­ing round a year ago, when it blew a 14-point lead in the sec­ond half and lost to Seton llall. The Wildcats haven't lost consec­utive first-round games sinee 1992 and '9:t 
"In the second half we pieked it up and put pressure on them and made it more difficult for them to complete passes," Arizona eoaeh Lute Olson said. 
The Wildcats made it more difficult for the /\ggies (24-8) to do much of anything in the sec­ond hall', cspoeially shoot. Utah State shot 5:i percent from the field this season, but was just 8­for-30 (26. 7 percent) in the sec­ond half Thursday. 
Arizona kept turning the miss­es into easy points, getting the ball inside to Channing Frye as he seomd 13 of his 17 points in the second half. 
"Our offense definitely comes from our defense," Frye said. "That kind of takes the heart out of othnr teams and once we get those easy buckets we got confi­dence in the half'eourt." 
Frye also pulled down 10 r·ebounds and had five blocks, four or them eoming in tho sec­ond half' as the Wildcats nnded all hopns of an upset. for tho 1\ggies. • 
Nevada 61, Texas 57 
Nevada still has its NC/\A tournament magie working. 
Tho Wolf Pack made an improbable conwback in tho linal 2 minutes Thursday night, scoring the final night points of' tlw game to beat eighth-sonded Texas for their sm;ond straight lirst-round victory. 
"This tournament can break your heart," l'irst-year coach Mark Fox said. "/\t thn end, everybody's going to be crying' but oml tnam." 
The Wolf Pack (25-6) f'ed off last year's surprising run that sent them into tlw round of 16. They played with conJ'idence, matching Texas shove for shove, 

Personalized 
Notre Dame Graduation 

U11iversity of

Announcements 
Notre Dame 
as they evened their NCM tour­nament record at 3-3 and tind last season's victory total. 
But reaching the regional semifinals a second straight time might take the biggest upset in school history. They will face top-seeded Illinois on Saturday. 
What Nevada proved against Texas is that it can still do some postseason damage. Wake Forest 70, Chattanooga 54 
Chris Paul sat down on Wake Forest's beneh to soak in the final seconds. He pullnd on his warm-up lop, leaned back and smiled. The view was much bet­ter than he remembernd it. 
Paul had come back and made the Demon Deacons whole. 
"With him. it's likn we're one big happy family again," said forward Eric Williams. "It's like the puzzle is complete." 
Paul returned from a one­game suspension for punching a playnr and he and the second­seeded Demon Deacons shook ofT a lwrribln first half for a 70­54 win over Chattanooga in the NC/\1\ tournament on Thursday night. 
Paul scored 20 points -13 in the sncond half-and added six rebounds and five assists to pace Wake Forest (27-5), which didn't play like onn of the pre­tournny favoritns until midway through the second half. 
The Demon Deacons strug­gled with the Mocs (20-11 ), who thrnatmwd to lwconw just tho fifth No. 15 sond to win a lirst.­round ganw sinen thn tourna­nwnt nxpandnd in 1<JS5. 


AP 

Wake Forest guard Chris Paul, right, drives against Chattanooga forward Chris Brown during the second half of the teams' first round NCAA tournament matchup In Cleveland Thursday. 

148 E. Broadway Owat01111a, MN 55060 1-800-854-7464 Fax 1-800-655-5725 

Place orders in person on: 
www.Joste11s.com 

Tuesday and Wednesday, March 22 and 23 LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room 9:00a.m.-4:30p.m. 
Turtle Creek-The Place to he at ND! ­
.t-~..
~ 

Welcome to Paradise! 
• Pre-leasing for the 2005-2006 school year 
·Studios and 1 and 2 bedroom apartments (574)272-8124 
ask Sherry for details www.aimco.com 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 18, 2005 
NBA 
Magic fire coach Johnny Davis after six straight losses 
-
Associated Press 
OHLANDO, Fla. -In the midst of a six-game losing streak, the Orlando Magic decided it was time for a shake-up. 
Coach Johnny Davis was fired Thursday, with the Magic mov­ing closer to falling out of playoff contention. Assistant Chris Jent was named interim coach. 
"Certainly it's not the way we would like things to play out," said general manager John Weisbrod, who signed Davis to a two-year deal in 2003. 
Davis was dismissed along with assistant coach Hon Ekker hours after Wednesday night's 110-102 road loss to the Los Angeles Clippers, dropping the Magic to 31-33 and leaving them tied with Philadelphia for the final Eastern Conference playoff spot. 
"I still feel like we have our fate in our own hands, but I don't know how much longer we would have had that if we didn't get some kind of a jolt," 

Sunday March 20 • 7:30 p.m. Morris Ptrforming Arts Cvntczr South Bvnd. Indiana 
Tickets availablv at Morris Box Officv Chargv by phonv 574/235-9190 or 800/537-6415 on-llnv at www.morrlscvntvr.org 
4.1361101 ~··-::fh()/'/'t!' 


PJO(.I;dly Ptetonh in South B•nd 

Tile Kick Otf thcr Sommer Cvtebrotion 


Oul<loon Un<lqr thq St<lrs olong the bonks of thq St. )ocr lliwrl 

Sunday May Z2 • 7:00 pm Saint Patrick's Park South B9nd. Indiana 
CUISSIC CARS! I FIREWORKS! 

~ KIDS (J"DE!t 11 ~ 
FREE WITH PAID AD<.ILT 
TKKETS Oft 58LE SATURDAY MARCH 26 AT 10:00 fiH! 

flvoilobkl ot Covcrklski Sto<llum Box Offkv. Charge by phonv 574/235-9988 or on-lin .. ot www.silwrlulwks.com Saint Potri<k's Pork Offkv. un<l ut oil TICKETMfiSTEit lo<otlons, charg" by phonv 574f2n-7979 or www.tkkvtmaner.tom 
F~tEE SILV!IlHAWKS B!ISEIU!ll TICKET FOil IIPRIL 7, 8, OR 9 WITH EVERY BERtH BOYS TICKET BOOCiHT OH MARCfl 26 f1T C:OVELESKI Box OFFICE OrtLY! 
Fifth Third Bank 

Wortc;tng Uard To Uo Tho:o Only Uartk You·11 t:wr N&&d! 

Weisbrod said via conference call from Seattle, where the team is in the middle of a West Coast road swing. 
"If I had thought our team was less capable than r think it is, then it would have been easier here down the stretch to accept our fate.... But I happen to think an awful lot about our team." 
Davis, a low-key coach, seemed to lose control of his players. In Sunday's 98-82 home loss to New Jersey, the Magic received several technical fouls and scuffled with the Nets. 
Reserve guard DeShawn is definitely our lowest point of Stevenson booted the ball into. the season. We just need to get 
the stands at the buzzer and for­ward Stacey Augmon squirted lotion on reporters in the locker room. 
"We're in trou­ble. We haven't won for like a week or so," Magic guard Steve Francis 
back to playing the up-tempo style of game

"[My firing] caught 
that we're used 

me completely off to." guard." Davis told the Orlando Sentinel he was sur­
Johnny Davis prised and disap­former Magic head coach pointed" by being fired with just 18 games said after left in the season and the club 
Wednesday night's game. "This still trying to make the playoffs. 
Now, 
"It caught me completely ofT guard," Davis said. 
He wasn't alone. 

Miami Heat coach Stan Van Gundy said he was "absolutely shocked" by the firing. 
"At this late date, I'm just very, very surprised. A team right there in the playoll" hunt, tied for the eighth spot on March 17th, I don't know what to say about it," Van Gundy said. "Not much in the NBA surprises me, but this does, eoming on March 17th with a team tied for a playoff spot." 
all your incoming Calls can be free. 

Friday, March 18, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Shaq wins second straight match up with Kobe 
Associated Press It was thn 11th straight win and fi>cus." wore down. last 12 minutns -ovnn though 
a single-SfHtson rneord 14th Bryant, aeeording to Wade, told Bryant had 21 poinl'> in tho first thn Laknrs eonnectnd on six 3­
MIAMI -Shaquilln O'Neal straight at homo for Miami (51-Miami's second-year guard "Stop half but missnd his first nine shots pointnrs in tho linal 1 0:03. wants nothing to do with Kobe 16), which movnd nine games crying" as the teams were after halftime and finislwd with "Keyon was obviously fabulous, Bryant. And Bryant soon may not ahead of Detroit in the Eastern preparing to leave thn court fol­26 points on 8-li>r-23 shooting. and Dwyann and Shaq worn vnry, want anything to do with Shaq's Conlilrenee standings and within lowing a first half in whieh Wade Chueky Atkins had 23 for tho VPry good again," IIPat coach undl'rstudy in Miami. percentage points of San Antonio was oftnn agitated over non-calls. Lakers, who dropped their third Stan Van <Iundy said. 
I>wyann Wade-pumpnd up by (49-15) for thn league's best "I don't want to say what I straight and fell 1 1/2 games It was the Laknrs' first visit to a comnwnt Bryant madn as the record. said," Wade said. "I told him that I behind Donv<1r for the final playotr Miami sincn last summer's tradn lirst half nxpirPd -scornd night "We just look at this ganw as wasn't talking to him, for one. spot in the Wost<1rn Conf(wonen. sending O'Neal to the flpat for of his 27 points in llw fourth another game," said O'Neal, who And for two, I pretty much told "I think we're at our best when Caron Butlnr, Lamar Odom and quartnr, and O'Neal hitd a 25-enjoyed a season swnnp at his for­him a lot of stun·. I don't \'\'ant to the odds are against us," Bryant Brian <Irani. -all key players in point, 12-rl'bound gamn that mer teammate's expense. "We get into it." said. last se<L'lon's run to tho E<L'>t smni­lwlpnd lil"l llw Miami Ileal to a wanted to stay focused and our llis play did the talking. Wade Keyon Dooling scored night of finals. Thern was plnnty of hypn, 102-89 vie lory over tho Los guys did a bnautil"ul job of not let­added eight rnbounds and Jive his season-high 17 points in the although it palnd to tho mania Angelos !.akers on Thursday ting anything enter into the locker assists, then he pumped his fist in fourth quarter for Miami, which surrounding tho I Inat's I04-102 night. room that would break our exultation as the final seconds outscored the Lakers :H-22 in the ChrislnHL'> win in l.os Angnlns. 
NO WoMEN's TRACK 
Irish send partial squad to Willie Williams Invitational 
By RYAN KIEFEU Spons Wri1er 
A partial squad of Irish track athletes will travel to tho University of Arizona this wnnknnd to opnn the outdoor portion of thn Notrn Damn womnn's lraek srhed uln at the Willie Williams Invitational. 
Nolrn Damn will send sprint­nrs. hurdlors and a few f'inld alhiPtns to tlw desert Friday with hopns to jumpslart lhn tnam's qtu~st for outdoor Big Fast qualific:ation limns. 
Thcl mid-distance and dis­lance lPams will stay in South BPnd to rnst and t.ry to get lwalthy. Knrry Meagher, l.aurnn King and Molly lludd ln. all Irish eross country stars, are still rehabbing long 
term injuries. 
Among the group of athletes that will compete this week­end arn Big East Champion Okeehi Ogbuokiri, promising freshmen Brinnne Davis, Domoniqun Manning and Crysta Swayzer and Maryann Erigha, who was onn spot out of qualifying for last week­end's NCAA indoor meet. 
While this meet rPpresents a transition from the elirnate con trolled Loftus Center to tho dry hc'at of Arizona, Irish coach Tim Connolly main­tained that his team's focus 
must be  on  the  season  as  a  
whole.  
"Indoor is  not the end of a  

season," Conn-nlly said. "Wn don't start all over again when we go outside." 
"Tho indoor and outdoor 

make up one complete season. We need to view it like this to make a smooth transition to the outdoor portion of our schedule." 
This weekend will also pro­vide thn opportunity for Notre Dame's two NCAA athletes, :~000-meter specialist Stephanie Madia and high jumper Staeey Cowan, to refo­cus and get refreshed for anothnr NCAA push. Madia finished 12th and Cowan fin­ished 19th last wef~kend at the indoor NCAA's. 
The rest of the Irish track team is expected to make its outdoor debut in one of' two mPds scheduled over Easter wenkend. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
Student" i 

.--------------------------j•••••••••••••••••••m-••••••••••••••••••••••"•••••..J
4& 5 Private bedrooms-SPLIT the rent! 
r······-·-....................... 
f/isit our website at 
www.RE~JCJ.com 

! : 
I i
'-·-·---···-·-·-·-·--····-······· ...........................) 
3floors ofliving space +patio area Central air I cable hook-up Stove, fridge, dishwasher \\'asher I Dryer in EACH unit Close to campus ADT monitoring systems 24-hour emergency maintenance 
Call for ashowing today! 
574-234-9923 
There are also afew 2-bedroom apartments available at Notre Dame Apartments for just $500-$600/month. 

Offering
Paperback books in stock 
affordable

• Out-of-Print search service 
ftying lessons

• Appraisals large and small 
from South Bend 
Reglon•l Airport

OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 
-
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 18, 2005 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish set for yet another road trip 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior StaffWriter 
The Irish will put their five­game winning streak on the line as they head east this weekend to the Buckeye Invitational in Columbus, Ohio. 
Notre Dame (11-7) will open the event with a game against Marshall Saturday at 5 p.m. and follow up with a match against Ohio State at 7 p.m. The Irish close out play with games against Oakland (noon} and Eastern Michigan (2 p.m.) Sunday. 
Heading into its spring break trip, Notre Dame was only 5-6, but the Hawaii Invitational allowed the Irish to find their offensive stroke. Notre Dame scored 25 runs in its four-game sweep at the tournament, and the Irish ended the trip with their second tournament title of the early season. 
"Hawaii was good for us because we played well as a team." Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "We made things happen, our pitchers both did well and we did a really good job of minimizing our mistakes. 
"Coming into Hawaii we were averaging two or three errors a game, and at Hawaii we played errorless ball -we didn•t give our opponents any mistakes to take advantage of." 
At the Buckeye Invitational, Notre Dame will face one of the better teams in the Big Ten conference. Ohio State is 11-6 in 2005, and the Buckeyes are currently hitting .310 as a team. 
"[Ohio State] can really hit," Gumpf said. "Their pitchers are pretty similar to what we've seen this year, but Ohio State really stands out because of their hitting and their speed on the basepaths. Marshall is another very fast team that really makes things happen with the baserunning game." 
Notre Dame's other oppo­nents don't appear as powerful as Ohio State, but for an Irish team that has struggled on offense this season, they're not likely to take anyone lightly. 
Marshall (11-8) will face Notre Dame for the first time in history, with the Thundering Herd entering the matchup fea­turing top hitter Randi Nelson, who has a .417 batting aver­age. 
Oakland (1-8) will face the Irish for the second time ever, with Notre Dame winning the earlier meeting 12-0 on April 30, 2002. The Grizzlies have struggled offensively this sea­son, hitting just .197 as a team. 
In Eastern Michigan (5-12), Notre Dame faces an opponent that they will see later in the season -the Irish face the Eagles at Ivy Field for a double­header on April 5. Kelli Jeziorski, who leads the team with a .326 batting average, paces Eastern Michigan's offense. 
A big reason for Notre Dame's turnaround this season has been the impressive play of junior Kellie Middleton. Middleton, who missed 61 games last season due to injury, is second on the team in batting average with a .333 mark, and is a perfect 10-for-1 0 in the stolen base department. 
"[Middleton] really got hot over spring break," Gumpf said. "Every time she gets on base you can see the other team get scared. We really believe as a team that if she gets on base then she's going to come around and score as well." 
Middleton was recognized for her efforts, winning the Big East player of the week honors on March 14. 
The Buckeye Invitational is Notre Dame's final road tour­nament of the season and the sixth consecutive weekend in which the Irish have had to travel. 
The team will finally open its home season Wednesday. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Are you creative? 
Do you have a short story, poem, drawing or photo? Submit your work to the Spring issue of 
The ~Juggler 
NO's student literary, art and design magazine. 
Please bring artwork to Mary Foster in 206 Riley by March 28. · Supply slides for pieces larger than 11x17 or 3·0 work. 
-
Written work deadline is March 21. Send via e-mail to juggler@nd.edu or dropped off in the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall. No entries of more than 2,500 words, please. 
All submjssions should include title; author/artist, and e-mail. 
And if you're interested in working on the Juggler staff, just e-mail juggler@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Huskies give Ro111ar extension 
Associated Press SEATTLE -Washington basketball coach Lorenzo Romar agreed to a new eight­year deal with the school 
Thursday after guiding the Huskies to their first No. 1 seed in the NCAA tournament. 
The terms and conditions of the deal that will keep him in Seattle through the 2012-2013 season will be released when Romar signs the contract. He was working under a six-year contract that paid him $700,000 a season. 
"Lorenzo has done an unbe­lievable job of revitalizing Washington basketball and we felt this was the appropriate time to make the announce­ment that he will be our coach for a long time to come," Washington athletic director Todd Turner said in a state­ment. 
The announcement came before the Huskies' 88-77 vic­tory over 16th-seeded Montana in a first-round tour­nament game in Boise, Idaho. 
Washington went 27-5 this season, winning the Pac-1 0 tournament championship for the first time. The Huskies were eighth in the final Associated Press poll. 
''I'm ecstatic," Romar said in a statement. "I would like to thank the administration, Todd Turner and our presi­dent, Mark Emmert, for believing in me. Whenever something like this happens, there is always a lot of atten­tion on the individual coach. The reality is, without the out­standing work of my staff and the accomplishments of our players, this may not have happened." 
Romar, a former Washington player, has rejuvenated a pro­gram that finished 11-18, 5-13 in the Pac-10, before Bob Bender was fired as coach after the 2001-2002 season. 


...you could jump start your career by earning an MBA from a highly respected business school in less than one year? 
What if you entered a totaliy immersive, one-of-a-kind learning environment that would prepare you to succeed within the complex realities of today's global marketplace? 
Visit our website: www.redefinedmba.uky.edu See how we've redefined the MBA. 
Visa@ Credit ulll enjoy a est rate~ and alfee. 
n, you can r current 
0 

, and make NOTRE DAME ents. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Friday, March 18, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
year." we're learning how we need to that the youthful energy of "I feel good about our play to be effective," Corrigan Butler does not sneak up on
Northern Butler 
continued from page 24 
senior ynar is finally gntting a ehaneo, and hn's taking advantagn of it. I'm really happy for him. I'm proud of him." 
Tlw third of four relievers usnd by Notre Damn, Bickford throw 2.1 shutout, uno­
"/feel good about our
hit innings believes the and nabhnd bullpen. We just need win -Notre the victory for Dame's sec­
to make sure we can 
just the sec­ond in a row
get late into the game 
ond win of his -could get Irish career. with the lead. " the Irish Tho Irish (7-rolling. 71 won back­"That was a
Paul Malnlerl 
to-ba<~k games great come-.
Irish coach 

for the sncond time this sna-
SOil. 
Arter trailing 6-:l heading into tlw bottom half of the nighth, the Irish bats came alive. Notre Dame erupted for a seven-run inning to take a 10-6 lead they would not relinquish. Senior shortstop leader Greg Lopez's two-run single in the eighth kicked off thn rally. 
Flawless pitching held off the II uskies the rest of the way. 
Ace closer Hyan Doherty mownd down the side in the lluskie ninth for his fourth save in five tries this season and seventeenth of his career. 
"lie had that one rough outing against Dayton out in Arizona," Mainieri said. "Other than that, he's been prntty automatic, which is the way he was all year last bullpen. We just need to make surn we can get late into the gamn with the lead." 
Lopez finished with three HBis on the day, while sopho­rnorn catcher Snan Gaston, junior right-lield1w and junior cnnterfinldnr Alex Nettey naeh had multiple-hit days. 
With Bickford and Doherty clicking and the Irish offense 
moshing, 
Mainieri 
from-behind 

victory for us today," Mainieri said. "I told the players after the game that most times during a sea­son you can point to a game that really turns your season around, and we may look at this game at some point and say this is a game that really turned our season around." 
It was a game in which all nine players on the field sim­ply gelled. 
"When you rally from behind and pull out a game that looks like it's lost, it does wonders for a team -the confidence and the cama­raderie and the chemistry of the team -because it was a total team effort to do it," Mainieri said. "Everybody chipped in." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
continued from page 24 
automatic bid," Corrigan said. "It's the old coaching cliche here, we can only worry about one game at a time, and that's Butler, but it does put a lot of emphasis on thesP games." 
So far this season, Corrigan has been happy with his tnam's play, but sees areas of improve­ment that still need to be addressed. 
"I think we've played hard in every game, and I think that said. "I was disappointed at Cornell. I don't feel like we played with enough discipline and didn't make enough plays to win that game, and yet we came back and did very well in those areas playing against Carolina." 
Following up the North Carolina game with a good win­ning performance against Butler will be important for the Irish in order to position them­selves in their league. 
They will nm1d to play with disdpline in order to make sure them. 
"Hopefully that's a sign of progress and maturity in our team and something that we can continue to do," Corrigan said, n1garding the team's vieto­ry against North Carolina aftor losing to Cornell. 
Notre Dame and Butler will face off at 1 p.m. Saturday at Notre Dame. The game will be televisod on Comcast Sports Local. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
MEN'S TRACK 
Irish head to Willian1s Invitational 
By JOHN EVERETT 
SportS Writer 
Several members of the Notre Dame men's track and field teani will be soaking up the sun this weekend, enjoying a weekend away from South Bend. The team has sent a contingent to Tucson, Ariz. to partake in the Willie Williams Invitational to be held at the Roy P. Drachman Track & Field Stadium on the University of Arizona campus. The meet is the first of the out­door season. 
The meet will start today at 
3:30 p.m. with the hammer throw. The first event on the track will be the men's 400­meter at 6 p.m. Friday's schedule · will close with the men's 5000­meter race which will begin at 9:05. 
The starting gun for the men's 4x100-relay at 12:30 p.m. will signify the commencing of Saturday's action, which will last until the men's 4x400 relay at 
2:30. The meet will not feature team scoring. At Tucson, the Irish competitors will be taking on athletes from the University of Arizona, Arizona State, New Mexico State, Washington State and others. 
Doug Walker, associate direc­tor of sports information, believes the meet is a good start to the outdoor campaign. 
"Most of the people going to this meet are people who didn't get to compete last week [at the NCAA Indoor Championships], so this is a good opportunity for them to work on some things," Walker said. 
With the Willie Williams Invitational, the Irish kick ofl' an outdoor season that will hoppful­ly take them all the way to the NCAA Outdoor Championships in Sacramento, Ca., from .June 8­
11. Along the way the Irish will travel to all parts of the country to compete. 
The schedule features event..r.; in places like Walnut, Calif., Atlanta, Ga. and Piscataway, N.J., the site of the Big East Outdoor Championships March 6-8. This marks the last season for anum­ber of Irish seniors, including Trevor McCiain-Duer and Selim Nurudeen. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 
Attention Graduating Seniors!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection ofthe first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communication within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Preferred start date is July 1 , 2005. 
Please send or deliver a cover letter and resume to: Admissions Hiring Committee, 220 Main Building 
-
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--­
page 22 Friday, March 18, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 


Vols 
continued from page 24 
the team against the Lady Vols as she plays No.1 for the 
team in both sin­gles -where she is currently No. 39 in the nation -and in dou­bles. In doubles, she will be joined by freshman 
Brook Buck. Buck currently plays No. 2 for the team and is nationally ranked . at No. 59 in sin­gles. 
other player to win one of· her sets. 
Although the Irish displayed great efforts all the way down the lineup, they felt the loss of Christian Thompson after she was sidelined with a knee 


"We are looking forward to the [Tennessee match] because it gives us a chance to compete." 
Jay Louderback Irish coach 
injury and were unable to secure the victory. 
The Lady Vols are looking to take advantage of the team's dis­jointed lineup after that injury. 
This sea­son, t h e Lady 
The rest of the lineup in sin­gles includes juniors Kiki Stastny, Lauren Connelly, Liz Donohue and senior captain Sarah Jane Connelly. 
This solid Irish lineup is hop­ing to bounce back from a dis­appointing 6-1 loss to No. 24 BYU over spring break. 
The team's lone point came from Catrina Thompson at No. 1 over Lauren Jones 6-2, 6-2. Lauren Connelly was the only Vols are off to their best start in two seasons behind junior Sabita Maharaj, ranked No. 44 in the nation in sin­gles. 


Both the Lady 
with a difficult loss at No. 6. "You work for opportunities
Illini 

like this," Bayliss said. "It's dis­continued from page 24 appointing not to do better in the matches we had chances to 
However, the final three sets win." we·re all hotly contested. However, he is optimistic Ackvlediani posted a point for about the team heading into the Irish over Damir in the fifth the rest of the season. spot. "One day at a 
D'Amico came time -you work
"One day at a time
close to an upset hard and you try of Deheart, -you work hard to get better," ranked No. 4 Bayliss said.
and you try to get
nationally, in the "There's no sim­
better."
second spot in pie, easy way to the singles line­do anything. We up. Winning the Bobby Bayliss dido 't really do second set 7-5 anything badly,
Irish coach 
after losing the we just dido 't first 6-2, he fell win." 7-5 in a fiercely competitive Next time on the courts, No. third frame. 48 University of Michigan will 
"Brent played one of the best visit the Eck Tennis Pavilion on matches he's played all year," Saturday, March 26. Bayliss said. "I can't ask him to play any better." Contact Kate Gales at 
Buchanan finished the match kgales@nd.edu 
fered losses to Duke and North Carolina. 
However, the Lady Vols hold one advantage over the Irish -in the last 15 meetings against Notre Dame, Tennessee has earned a 11-4 record and has won the last five matches.. 
Despite the advantage Tennessee holds, Irish coach· Jay Louderback is eager for today's meet. 
"We are looking forward to the [Tennessee match] because it is another chance for us to 

"Our kids love to compete and Tennessee gives us a chance to play some tough competitors." 
Jay Louderback Irish coach 
compete," Louderback said. "Our kids love to compete and Tennessee gives us a chance to play some tough competitors." 
Following the match against Tennessee, the Irish return home to face 

Vols and the Irish have seen Purdue on Tuesday before similar opponents this season, then traveling to Oklahoma 
holding 3-2 records against Ohio State, Michigan and Wake Contact Dan Tapetillo at Forest. Further, both have suf-jtapetil@nd.edu 
Freshman Brook Buck hits the ball against Iowa Feb. 27. Buck won the match in straight sets, 6-2, 6-2. 

tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'-~~~~1'-..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~s
f«l~;~p 

Allgames willbe heldat Moose Krause Stadium (Due to inclement weathergames willbe movedto Loftus Sports Center) 
• Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promotional information ;:\rih.nyliaw.f 
• Pair of round tri airline tickets is only in the Continental United States certain restrictions will able 
-
Friday, March 18, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
THE CONFERENCE CALL LJAS A HUGE SUCCESS. 
\ 

PEANUTS 
CHARLIE BROWN ? 15 T~AT '(OU? I'M GLAD YOU CALLED.. 
E 
THREE OUT OF 15
0
.. ~ 
PEOPLE WERE AVAIL­
® 

, 11.. ABLE AND ONLY ONE OF THEM FORGOT 
TO CALL IN.
~ 
\ 
WOULD YOU LIKE TO 
SA'f 50METI-t1N6 TO ~-tiM 7HE'S RI6~T HERE.. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
JWJW~l! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TOBAB 
I I I 

C2005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
r~±~fl 
HOW THE'
tRoHORR I 
DRUNKE'N COWBOY FE'L-T WHE'N THE'
I J I 
SHE'RIFF PUT HIM 
www.jumble.com 
IN THE' C.OOLE'R. 
ROZNEF I 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
[ J [ J

.___.__.....,........:;..._--LI _ __._,-....<.J suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: rIIJITJriiJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: TITLE SOOTY FLATLY POISON Answer: The jockey's mail didn't arrive because it was-LEFT AT THE "POST' 

50 IT WASA PHONE CALL 
BETWEEN TWO PEOPLE? 
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN IF THEY HADNT USED THE MUTE BUTTONS. 

-: -_-_--=---=-:---=-============================================================================================================= 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  27 Ready to go free  54 Enthused out  
1 Tom Wolfe  30  _ Monroe,  loud  
catchphrase  "Green Acres"  56 Literary  
popularized in  role  monogram  
the 1970's  31 No _(street  57 "None of the  
12 Loan periods:  sign)  above,"  
Abbr.  32 Pronoun not in  essentially  
15 Like some  the king's  58 D.C. bigwig  
corporate stock  English  59 Office meeting  
16 Letters for  36 Big name in  place  
soldiers  desserts  
17 Many people read at these 18 Very cool  37 Going out in waves? 39 French pronoun  DOWN 1 Old "Best by taste test"  
19 Pronounced  40 Major disasters  sloganeer  
20 Deals in  42 Little dog, for  2 "When the  
21 Abbr. on a certain elevator button 22 Coasters 24 Trade grp. formed in the late 1950's 25 Two times, to Tomas 26 Relig. affiliation of 21/2 million Americans  short 45 St. Beach (Sunshine State vacation locale) 46 Water tester: Abbr. 47 Stand out 49 Impressionist 50 Center of a ball, maybe 52 Red letters? 53 Alphabet trio  angry trumpet sounds "· Shak. 3 Faltering condition 4 Basket fiber 5 Frame that's sometimes framed 6 Stout ones 7 Where les legons are taught  
a Places with 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
fireplaces 
9 Shrews 10 Troubles 11 Some 
Amazon.com sales, for short 12 Went free, at least for now 13 It's not busy 14 Gentleness 21 Fathers, familiarly 23 Angers 25 Bring down 28 Follower of rule or court 

WILLSHORTZ 


29" Alice" 35 Where to beat 44 "Moon River'' (classic 1971 the heat? lyricist antidrug teen 
48 Baja breakfast 38 Brimming

"diary") 

order 30 More pallid 41 Guggenheim 50 "A Fool There 
sculptor

32 1970's fashion Was" star, 1915 item 42 Epitome of 51 Grander than 33 At peace 
hotness grand ' 54 Net letters 
34 San Quentin or 43 Like some Attica inspections 55 Musician Yoko 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELIWRITIES !lORN ON THIS I>A Y: Caroline Corr, 32; Mia llanun, 33; 
Rob Lowe, 41; Kurt Russdl, 54 

Happy Hirthduy: You aren't likely to have too much lrec lime on your hands this year. With your industrious side coming tnlhc surface and changes all around you, the result will be plenty of unexpected and interesting developments cotning your way. Being receptive will be the key to making the most of this rather vigorous year. Take notes, slay organized and make the most of it. Your ntunbcrs arc 7, 12, 26, 34, 37,39 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Take the world by stonntoday. lk spccilic abmn your needs and your objectives. You have to compensate fi>r any competition that may wanllo oppose you. This can be a wry productive day ifyou li>rgc into the future with conlidcncc. ••••• TAURUS (Apri120-Muy 20): You'll be surprised al how mm:h you can gl!l done ifyou deal with agencies or institutions. You will have the savvy to manipulate business situations as well as the charisma to cnli>rcc your ideas. A strong message can be senlloday. • • • u GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): Don't lake anything or tmyonc li.>r granted, especially the person who is always there for you. You may be feeling good about your own accomplishments, but you should be giving praise as well. •••• CANCER (June 21-.Juh· 22): You will be in the mood to have a lillie fun, do a I illle shopping and make some personal improvements. A linancial or legal deal can be settled today. Investments look pnsitive, but don't overestimate your budget. ••• LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You have the opportunity to open a door thai will lead tn some inspiring concepts. You have plenty lo be gratclill li.>r, and the more gracious and humble you arc, the more you will be ofTercd in return.•••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may have lo do a lillie friendly persuasion today. As long as you coax gently and arc complimentary, there will be no problem. •• LIHRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You have a big heart, and you arc willing to go the extra mile if need be. You can make the people around you happy today with your creative suggestions and willingness lo stick by them as long as they need 
·you. Your kindness won't be lorgollen. • • • • • SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 2 I): Today is all about looking your bcsttmd spending time with someone you feel deeply about. Changes are coming your way, so begin the preparation needed. • •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2 I): This could tum into a push-pull sort ofday --one person wanting you to do one thing and another trying to convince you to do something altogether ditTerent. *** CAPRICORN (l>ec. 22-.Jan. 19): Pay more allcnlion to your peers. Someone you least expect may no! be standing in your comer. You may wanllo he a lillie bit secretive about your plans. • • • AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feh. 18): You've got it right, so slop questioning everything. It lakes contidcnc., and trust in what you arc capable of doing in order lo be successful. Follow through with a creative idea you have been pondering. •••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may not know which end is up today, especially ifsomeone you care about is confi1sing you with his or her actions. !3e diplomatic hut don't let anyone know when: you stand. •• 
llirthday Haby: You arc sensitive, emotional and very good at getting your own way. You have big ideas and creative talent. You don't give up easily, and you are known for your charm. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, cugcnialast.com fi>r conlidcntial 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, March 18, 2005 
page 24 
MEN'S TENNIS 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Although it was St. Patrick's Day, the Fighting Irish were no match for the Fighting Illini Thursday. 
An afternoon of near misses saw the No. 18 Irish fall to the nation's No. 3 squad, featuring two top-20 singles players and a strong top-to-bottom doubles lineup. 
"They're a good team, and they played well," coach Bobby Bayliss said. "I was just disap­pointed in our slow start." 
Since the beginning of the season, Bayliss has called the bottom of the lineup a strength. The team proved his thought correct Thursday, as No. 5 Irackli Ackhvlediani posted a 4-6, 7-5, 6-3 victory for the first Irish point of the match. 
Patrick Buchanan wa!l last on the courts at No. 6 with another dose third-set match, but ultimately fell 6-4 in the final set to leave a linal score of 6-1 in favor of the lllini. 
"I thought once we got into the matches we were fine," Bayliss said of the team's per­formance. "We had little win­dows of opportunity, and we really had to elose the door on them, which we really didn't 

''Ill" showing 
No. 18 Irish fall to No. 3 Illini 6-1 
d0." 
In doubles, Stephen Bass and Barry King were first off the courts, losing 8-5 to Brandon Davis and Chris Martin. Illinois clinched the point at No. 1, with G.D. Jones and Ryler Deheart defeating Ryan Keckley and Brent D'Amico 8­
2. The Illini completed the sweep with another 8-5 victo­ry, this time putting Kevin Anderson and Pramod Damir over Sheeva Parbhu and Eric Langenkamp. 
"If we had gotten one break early on in doubles, gotten up a service break, given the crowd a chance to get into it ... it might have been different," Bayliss said of the outcome of the match. "But we didn't do it. We didn't manufacture it." 
Singles saw the Irish fall in their first three matches to clinch the match for Illinois. In the top spot, Bass was the first to finish, as the sophomore fell 6-1, 6-4 to Anderson. Anderson is ranked No. 18 in the country in singles play. 
Parbhu finished next, losing 6-2, 7-5 in a fierce battle for a third set to Monte Tucker of the Illini at No. 4. 
Jones clinched the match for the Illini with a 7-6 (7-0), 6-3 win over Barry King at No. 3. 
see ILLINI/page 22 


BASEBALL 
Bickford steps up for Irish 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 

It's a cliche in March bas­ketball -"New heroes always step up." 
That saying fits the Notre Dame baseball team's victo­ry Thursday over the Northern Illinois Huskies (3­9). 
Seldom-used senior left­bander Scott Bickford pitched perhaps the best innings of his Notre Dame career to allow his team to rally for a 10-6 win at Evansville's Aces' ClassiC. 
"I told the team after the game it was one of the high­lights of my career at Notre Dame -watching how well Scott Bickford pitched today -because here's a kid that hasn't had that many opportunities in his career," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "lie's kept a good atti­tude, he's worked really hard and today he eame in and really saved the game for us." 
"He kept us in the game and gave us a chance to rally. Here's a kid that in his 
see NORTHERN/page 21 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Team travels to Knoxville 
No. 23 Irish ready to lock horns with No. 25 Lady Vols today 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
lleading into today's crucial match against No. 23 Tennessee (9-3), the No. 25 Irish (6-6) will be relying on the team's depth to pull out the victory. 
Notre Dame will be compet­ing without sophomore Christian Thompson, half of the No. 2 doubles team in the country. The former No. 1 pairing of Christian and her twin sister Catrina holds an 11-1 record on the season. 
Catrina Thompson will lead 
see VOLS/page 22 


MEN'S LACROSSE 

Butler expected to 
give Irish a challenge 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 

As the round of 32 teams opens up in the NCAA men's basketball tournament Saturday, Notre Dame will commence something or its own. 
Notre Dame will play its first Great Western Lacrosse league game of the season against Butler. The game will also be Notre Dame's first home game of the season. 
Butler is a young, hungry team -a group that Irish coaeh Kevin Corrigan acknowledges could present a tough matchup. 
"We've seen them play a number of times now, and they are very young, but they play extremely hard." Corrigan said. "I think that like any young team they've had some ups and downs, but I think they've got a very tal­ented group of kids, so I'm expecting to see them at their best on Saturday." 
Notre Dame is currently sit­ting at 2-1 overall. with wins against Penn State and North Carolina and a loss to Cornell. All three of the Irish oppo­nents are highly ranked. 
Saturday's game will be the first league game of the sea­son, however, and in league play winning is crueial. 
"Its extremely important [to win I because if we win all five of our league games, we get to the NCAA tournament with an 
see BUTLER/page 21 
en 
MEN'S TRACK 
ND SOFTBALL 
NCAA BASKETBAlL 
NBA 

ND WOMEN'S TRACK 
MlB 
LLI 
Washington Huskies 
Former slugger Mark

1--
c.,:) Willie Williams 
Notre Dame vs. 

Heat 102 
Willie Williams 
sign head coach 
McGwire refuses to
z Invitational 
Marshall 

Lakers 89 
Invitational 
Lorenzo Romar to an 
admit whether or not he
a: :3 
eight-year contract 
took steroids during

= Friday-Saturday 
Saturday, 5 p.m. 

Miami's Shaquille 
Friday-Saturday
extension. 
Congressional hearing. 

Notre Dame set to 
Irish will compete in 

O'Neal beats former Los 
Irish to send partial
c:c 

kick off the outdoor sea-
the Buckeye Invitational 

Angeles teammate Kobe 
squad to competition in 
D. !;: son in Arizona. 
this weekend. 
Bryant. 
Arizona. 

en 
page 20
page 21 
page 20 
page 16
page 19 

page 19 
,. 
' 

. . . ....
f f 0 o I 1 I o 0 t • 0 t I ' 
..... ' t ~ \ • • 
' ' • t I • ' ' o ' '
. . . . ..
' ' 
' ' 
. . . . . 


' ' ' ~ I • ' ' ' •' ' I 
. ' •.•. • -.. a. • ' ' , ~ ~ . .... . . ~:. . . . . ' . . 
' .
• ·' t \ 

• • ill ~ .• ' • • • • ' I '
. -' .• '. . ' .. ' '' ... 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 18, 2005 
UCSB eyes upset bid against Notre Dame 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

There is just one NCAA bracket in the Irish locker room. 
It has Notre Dame and UC Santa Barbara playing at 4:30 p.m. Saturday in Fresno, Calif. For the No. 10 Irish, who have high aspirations for the NCAA Tournament, this is the only game that matters right now. 
"We haven't talked about any of the other games, haven't talked about what we're doing afterwards, we're just focusing on this game," 
The fourth seeded Irish (26-5) have a tough first round matchup in the 13th seeded Gauchos (21-8), who were Big West regular season and tournament champions. Senior Kristen Mann was the Big West Player of the Year and averages 19.9 points and 9.5 rebounds per game. The 6-foot-2 forward also has 15 double-doubles this season. 
"She is going to present a lot of prob­lems," McGraw said. "You have to know where she is all the time. She can go inside and out." 
The Gauchos, who come into the game with a 10-game winning streak, also boast a talented point guard in Mia Fisher, who averages 13.7 points per game on 50.6 percent shooting. 
"She is a very, very quick and athlet­ic type of player," McGraw said. "She gets great shots, she's smart, she's a great defender, so she creates some matchup problems for us. 
"Defensively, they play great man to man pressure defense, similar to what Rutgers and Connecticut do." 
Meanwhile, the Irish will begin their quest to advance farther than the Sweet 16, which they haven't done the past two years. 
"Many teams would love to get to the Sweet 16 two years in a row, but we want to get a step farther," point guard Megan Duffy said. "But at the same time, we want to take it one game at a time." 
Notre Dame comes off a tough loss in the semifinals of the Big East Tournament last week at the Hartford Civic Center. No. 13 Connecticut knocked off the Irish 67-54 March 7, dominating Notre Dame inside. 
"Coming off that game against Connecticut we were a little frustrat­ed," McGraw said. 
But the Irish say they are ready for the NCAA Tournament. 
"I feel like we have the overall expe­rience to push it a step more, and I think that helps with our confidence," Duffy said. "Especially going out West, away from home a little bit, I think we'll be ready to go." 
Duffy will have to play well if the Irish are to advance in the tourna­ment. The junior is averaging 11.8 points and 5.5 assists per game, the complement to All-American forward Jacqueline Batteast. Batteast is aver­aging a career high 17.1 points to go along with 6.5 rebounds for the Irish. Fellow senior Teresa Borton is averag­ing 8.4 points and 5.8 rebounds per game. Freshman Charel Allen aver­ages 7. 9 points off the bench, and Crystal Erwin gives the Irish big min­utes off the bench as well. 
McGraw said the only concern she has going into the tournament is the bench. 
"We have great depth, and it's very young," McGraw said. "That's the only question mark going into this year's NCAA Tournament since it is their first NCAA Tournament." 
Duffy said a balanced attack will be key for the Irish. 
"For the NCAA Tournament, every­body has to step up, it can't be one player," Duffy said. "I think we've shown this year that it can't just be Jackie. I think that Charel, myself and [player] one through 11 have to be ready to go." 
The only common opponent the Irish and Gauchos have is Purdue, whom UC Santa Barbara lost to 66-65 in overtime Dec. 3, and the Irish defeated 86-69 on Jan. 16. But Notre Dame knows the Gauchos are a tough first round game. 
"They're a dangerous team," Duffy said. "We all agreed that they're better than a 13 seed. It's definitely going to be a tough first-round game." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Guard Megan Duffy dribbles past Ohio State's Kim Wilburn on Nov. 20. Duffy and the Irish face California Santa Barbara In the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
POST PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 



McGraw has led Notre Dame to 10 straight tournament appear­ances and five Sweet 16 berths. Her Irish reached the Final Four in 1997 and the national title in 2001. She's a master at making in­game adjustments that help Notre Dame win.  The Irish have always been known for defense and this season is no exception. The team allows just 56.6 points per game. Offensively, Batteast and Duffy are the pacesetters, but any of the eight-player rota­tion can contribute on a given night.  The inside trio of Borton, LaVere and Erwin need success with the high-low post game When they have it, it's easy layups. When they don't, it's a turnover. Batteast is one of the best in the nation, hav­ing the ability to post up or nail a long jumper.  Duffy has produced an excellent season, and may be just as important as Batteast for Notre Dame's suc­cess. Allen and Gaines have proven they can hold their own, and both could see signifi­cant minutes against UCSB.  The Irish are eight deep and all eight have made crucial contributions at cer­tain points throughout the season. Allen adds a burst energy, while Erwin gives the team toughness and a phys­ical presence.  Notre Dame has already said anything less advancing past the Sweet 16 is not good enough. The team has extra motivation after receiving what they thought was a "disap­pointing" seed. The Irish have played well on the road this season.  
French is a seven­time Big West Coach of the Year since 1992. He's compiled a 478­278 record during more than 27 years of head coaching. This is the ninth straight year French has the Gauchos in the Big Dance.  The Gauchos can put up points -tallying more than 71 per game. Their offense begins and ends with All-American candi­date Mann. On defense, UCSB holds opponents to less than 40 percent shooting and just 61 points a game.  Mann does it all for the Gauchos on both ends, so the Irish must either shut her down, or the rest of UCSB. Notre Dame must also keep watch on Nichols and Richardson, who com­bine for more than 13 poinl'> and 12 rebounds a game:  Fisher averages a solid 13.7 points and more than three assists per game, while Bonds adds almost six points, 3.5 rebounds and two assists. O'Bryan is a spark off the bench, notching 5.9 points per game in 17 minutes.  The Gauchos play nine women and all average more than double figures minutes. Besides Mann and Fisher, UCSB relies on an array of others to provide scoring, defense and rebound­ing.  UCSB hasn't lost since Feb. 3 and are playing their best ball of the season. The Gauchos should have home court advantage in Fresno and have nothing to lose when facing the mighty Irish.  
French has impres­sive credentials, but it's McGraw who has the Final Four Pxperifmce and the national cham­pionship ring. She is 9­0 in her last nine first round tournamt:int games and owns a 21­10 tourney career record.  The Gauchos can reach 80 points easily, but they've shown a vulnerability all sea­son to struggle against tough defenses. That plays into Notre Dame's s{re·ngth. The Irish offense can't rely solely on Batteast and Duffy for points.  Mann and Batteast could cancel each other out which leaves the other players to 9,(lcide this Gategory. Notre Dame has more firr.power in the paint~ in terms of scoring and defense, but UCSB rebounds better.  Duffy is one of the best all-around point guards in the Big East, and with Allen and Gaines helping out, the Irish have the edge here. UCSB likely needs Bonds or O'Bryan to have a better-than­average game for the Gauchos to win.  Both teams need their benches to play well for a victory and both have received consistent contribu­tions. The Irish bench struggled in its last game against Connecticut in the Big East tourney.  UCSB can play loose and carefree, while Notre Dame bears all the pressum after going 26-5 during the regular season. The irish strug­~~~.a!J(_ . !($~;)l1~t !f8flsorr ~~~:'~~'~lrl!e' ,.._~, '* ·,  



' ..
.' '•. .. 
r---------------------------------------------~~~----------------------------~---------~---~~·-· 
Friday, March 18, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Her final shot 
After losing in the Sweet 16 the past two seasons, senior All-American Jacqueline Batteast has one last chance to reach the Final Four 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN  Battoast had 32 points on 11­really understand how nice it for-2:~ shooting in the Irish is to be at home," Batteast upset of Ohio State. But said. "I really am 10 minutes  
Sport> Wri tt•r  Batteast's biggest play in that  from my house, and it's great  
tournament was  on  defense,  - I can  get a  home-cooked  
Big l·:ast Player of the Year.  when she blocked  a  game­ meal beeause the dining hall  
All-American. First team all­ tying shot  to  preserve  the  can get a little tiresome after a  
Big l~asl.  Big East Hookin of  championship. Batteast took  while, and still be able to be  
tlw  Ynar.  Thesn  awards,  home  tournament  Most  around my brother and sister,  
among many others, belong to  Valuable Player honors, the  so it's been great."  
snnior .Jaequnline Battnasl. But  first of many honors she would  The senior is a celebrity in  
it's the orw accolade that has  receive during the regular sea­ town. When she and Duffy go  
eluded lwr for llrren years that  son.  out, everyone turns to look - 
matters most.  Against Rutgers at the Joyce  but it's not at the junior point  
"Final Four," she says with­ Center,  Batteast scored 12  guard.  
out hesitation.  straight points in the second  "Honestly, nobody really  
And if the Irish are going to  half, finishing with 27 to bring  cares about who I am," Duffy  
make it to Indianapolis, they  Notre Dame back from  a  13­said with a smile. "Everywhere  
will nend plenty of help from  point delicil.  we go, whether it's the mall,  
thnir senior All-Amorican, who  ''I'm still getting used  to  the movies, I swear every per­ 
is having the best season  of  Imore  defenders!." Batteast  son in South Bend knows who  
lwr earnnr playing in front of  said.  Jackie is. It's gotten to the  
lwr hometown crowd.  But overall, Batteast has  point where she tries to hide a  
Go-to player  used the extra attention she  little, because otherwise she'd  
This season,  Batteast has  has received to her advantage.  be talking to everyone."  
faend eonstant attention from  She is averaging 2.7 assists  The mild-mannered Batteast  
opposing teams. Some play  per game, whieh is second on  shies away from the spotlight.  
man, others play zone,  but  the team behind only point  But  when  she  goes  out  in  
rngardlnss, Batteast is guaran­ guard Megan Duffy. For the  town, Batteast has no  choice  
l<wd onn thing ­ somflone will  first  time  in  her  career,  but to be the talk of wherever  
lw guarding her.  Batteast's assist total (83) is  she is.  
"Thnir wholn loam seems to  more than her turnover total  "It's more the loud whispers  
bn  morn  aware  of where  I  (66).  !when people recognize mel."  
am." Batteast said. "So if it's  "It feels good that I can rely  she said. "People are whisper­ 
not an actual double, there's  on my teammates and know  ing, but you can hear them. No  
throe people in the lanfl, so it's  they'll be able to hit an open  one really comes up to me, but  
a lot morn diffkult. and teams  shot." Batteast said.  you can see them doing a dou­ 
are being a lot more physical  Hometown hero  ble take.  
this year."  As  much  attention  as  "I wish they would just come  
Dnspitn facing constant dou­ Batteast gets on the court, off  up and talk to me then I would  
ble tt~ams,  Batteast is putting  the court she might get even  feel a lot better. I feel like I'm  
up tho best numbers of her  more.  not a  nice person when I just  
earner, averaging 17.1  points  After games, young girls and  RICHARD FRIEDMANfThe Observer walk by and I hear them talk­ 
and 6.5 rebounds per game,  boys flock to Batteast, asking  Jacqueline Batteast attempts a layup against Ohio State'sing about me, so I try to smile  
one year after averaging 16  for pictures, autographs or  Jessica Davenport In Notre Dame's 66-62 win Nov. 20.and be polite -I'm still get­ 
points per game. Batteast is  anything for  a  piece of their  ting used to that."  
the Irish's go-to scorer, coming up big in big games.  South Bend star. Batteast, a Washington High School prod­ The usually low-key Batteast has never craved the spotlight,  the somebody I aspire to be like," McGraw said.  to her." One last chance  
In  the  Preseason  WNIT,  uct, is glad she stayed close to  but since her breakout fresh­ For freshman Charel Allen,  Batteast has one final shot to  
Batteast had 17 points in Notre Dame's semifinal upset of Duke, and in the finals,  home, despite originally want­ing to move away for college. "I think a lot of people don't  man year at Notre Dame, she has been the poster child for Notre Dame women's basket­ball. "After freshman year, I  who scored more than 3,000 points in high school in Monessen, Pa., Batteast was a big reason the talented guard chose the Irish.  add the crowning accomplish­ment to her list. And she knows now is the time. "This year, this is it," Batteast said. "The tourna­ 
couldn't go anywhere without being recognized," Batteast said. Irish coach Muffet McGraw said the community has adopt­ed the senior as one of its own. "It's been a great thing for the program to have a local player succeed," McGraw said. "I think the fans have really been great to her. They've really embraced her; they've treated her like their own daughter." Getting back to the elite Batteast has left her mark on the Irish basketball program as a player and as a person. When she graduates in May, Batteast will be in the top live of the Notre Dame record books for almost every major statistical category, including points, rebounds, blocks and double-doubles. Batteast also  "I knew coming in that she would be here, and she was the all-star that she was, so that played a big factor in me coming here," Allen, who was named to the Big East first team All-Freshman team, said. "I wanted to play with some­body at her level. She's very good, I love playing with her. She brings excitement to prac­tice, to games, to the locker room, off the court, so she's a very good person." The promising freshman said that one day she hopes her career can earn her similar accolades to Batteast. "Look at her, look at all the accomplishments she's made," the freshman said. "I just want to follow in her footsteps." Duffy, a first team All-Big East performer this year and  ment starts on Saturday, and I think we did a pretty good job during tho regular season. I think we're in a good bracket, even though we wore disap­pointed with our seeding INo. 4)." Batteast, wl1o came in the year after Notre Dame's 20()) National Championship, has never made it past the Swe1~t 16 in her thrHe years, getting to that point thn last two years. But this year, she is determined to havn morn after losing a close gamn to No. 1 seed Ponn State in last ynar's Sweet 16. "If we don't gnt past thn Sweet 16 this year. I think the season will bn a disappoint­ment," Battoast. said. "We wore 40 seconds away from going to the Elitn Eight last  
joined All-Ameriean Huth Hiley as two of the three players in Notre Damn history with at least 1 ,800 points and IJOO robounds in their ean~ers.  the Big East Most Improved Player last season, said play­ing with Batteast has helped make her the player sh11 is now.  yoar, so we know we're right. tl11~ r ~~ . T h is y n a r wI' know we'ro supposed to gPt thPre­it won't bn a shork. it won't bP a surprise, wn just trying to go  
But Batteast's impact on tho Notro Dame program gons far­ther than just the numbnrs. She has been an example of a  "I think we've become very good friends, and I know that's why my ganw has gotten so much better in the last three  take carP of businoss. "So, hnrn it. is. It's limP now to start playing." And if all goes ·acrording to  
great player and  a  great per­ years," Duffy said. ''I've had  plan. Batll~ast  will lPavn NotrP  
son  for younger teammates to  her to look up to, lwr being the  Danw  wonwn 's baskntball tlw  
look up to and strive to  emu­ AII-AmHrican. I always try to  way she found it-on top.  
RICHARD FRIEDMANfThe Observer  late.  emulate my game a little bit  
Jacqueline Batteast drives past t wo Purdue defenders Jan. 16 at "It's great for the younger  like her just because she's so  
the Joyce Center. The All-America n hopes to reach the Final Four players to look up and SI:W, this  talented and has a  lot going  Contact Heather Van Hoegarden  
this season after losing In the Sw eet 16 the past two years. is a  role model for  me.  this is  for her. I've always looked up  at hvanhoeg@nd.edu  

"J •• 
•, 

.' ·'' 
I • ,. 
Friday, March 18, 2005 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
.~~==~========================== 
Three factors will decide Irish fate 
Starting this weekend, Notre Dame has the opportunity to make history or be history. Whether they do the former or latter will depend on three factors -confi­dence, 
rebounding and Jacqueline Batteast. 

The Irish 
;;·,~j'

have had, 
r ·~ ·~l:i-. without a doubt, one of the best 
Joe Hettler

regular sea­sons in school his­Senior Staff 
tory by 
Writer 

going 26-5 and winning seven games against top 25 oppo­nents. They have succeeded at home and on the road, in easy games and difficult matchups. But in the few instances when Notre Dame was tripped up, the team lacked confidence, lost the rebounding battle and their All­American couldn't produce. These factors combined to be Notre Dame's Achilles' heel. They are the only reason the Irish could be sent home early from this year's tournament. 
Notre Dame has plenty of moti­vation heading into its 1Oth straight tourney appearance. The selection committee slapped the Irish in the face not only by giving them an unfair No. 4 seed, but also by planting them a thousand miles away in California. While the West Coast players are happy, no one else should be -ifthis draw wasn't a worst-case sce­nario, it was darn close. 
Batteast recognized that. While her teammates cheered when the seed was announced, the senior All-American didn't show much emotion. She was visibly ticked off during the ensuing interviews with media. If Batteast needed any more motivation during her senior season, the selection com­mittee took care of that. Now, it's up to Batteast to set the tone for her team in this tournament by playing as she has for much of the season -fearless and unwa­vering. 
After struggling in the NCM Tournament in 2002 as a sopho­more, Batteast rebounded to have outstanding junior and sen­ior years. The difference between her first two years and her fmal two? The South Bend native gained confidence -and she hasn't looked back. 
It's a pretty thing to watch Batteast on her game -her low, slow cross-over dribble, deadly accurate jumper and the ease with which she drives past a helpless defender to the bucket for an easy layup. 
When Batteast is on her game -which is often -the rest ofthe Irish feed off her confidence and improve their games. Teams focus their defi:msive schemes on stopping the All-American, free­ing up Teresa Borton and Courtney LaVere for an open shot, or allowing Megan Duffy or Charel Allen a clear field goal attempt. 
With Batteast, Notre Dame plays with a swagger that borders the line of confidence and cocky. It's exactly what championship teams need to grind through the rigors of a one-and-done tourna­ment scenario. It's exactly what the Irish had during those 26 wins and exactly what they lost, at least for part of those five defeats. 
For Notre Dame to advance deep into the tournament, the other seven regular players must stay confident, even if Batteast falters. Basketball is a game of swings, and overall this season, Notre Dame has been able to withstand most opponents' runs and then respond with a spurt of its own. Things mustn't change now. 
IfBatteast continues to play well and the Irish maintain their confidence, there's only one major weakness in this team's play-rebounding, or lack there­of. 
McGraw has preached all sea­son that her team must rebound to beat good opponents. If they can execute in the paint by box­ing out and not backing down, the Irish will be as good as any team in the tourney. But in many instances this season, Notre Dame has been whipped inside. It's not that the Irish don't have the ability to rebound well, they just play soft at times. When that happens, g{)od teams take advan­tage. 
It's an exciting and scary time for this Notre Dame team. They've just fmished an outstand­ing regular season and a so-so Big East Tournament. Now, what lies ahead is opportunity. A chance to cement their names as one of the very special teams dur­ing McGraw's tenure. A chance to separate themselves from past Irish teams that made it to the Sweet 16 then lost, much like the 

RICHARD FRIEDMAN!The Observer Notre Dame's players huddle at midcourt after a 63-47 home victory over Rutgers on Jan. 23. The Irish hope to advance deep into this year's tournament. 
last two seasons. A chance to reach their potential at the per­fect time and make a long antici­pated run deep into the heart of this year's March Madness. 
A good team that under­achieved in the tournament? Or a great team that played its best when the spotlight shone bright­est? By the beginning ofApril, 
Notm Dame will know the 
answer. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer: Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd. edu 

.. . . ' . 
~ \
. . 




