
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Sudan crisis traced to varied cultural roots 
Specialists delve into origins of tragedy 
By MICHAEL BUSK 
N~ws Wrirer 
/;"clitor :<; Note: This is thr~ sec­om/ article in a two-part series focusing on the background of and possible solutions to the cur­rent r·risis in !·lucian. 
Tlw current ethnic cleansing crisis in wnsl11rn Sudan -with lwo-ynar dnalh loll eslimatns in the hundreds or thousands ­aelually traces back to grains of sand. 
In an interview with The 
Observer, Juan Mendez, speeial advi­sor to U.N. SecHJtary­General Kofi Annan for genoeide, said he estimated the recent 


death toll in Mendez the region to bn as high as 170,000 and per­haps even higher. Some Darfur expnrts have estimated the death 

Saint Mary's to perform its own 1 Monologues' 
Students, faculty create alternative play 
By DANIELL£ LERNER 
News Wrirt·r 
In tlw spirit or Eve Ensler's award-winning and contro­vnrsial play The Vagina Monologuns, membors or the Saint Mary's eommunity will join together in presenting tho SMC Monologuos Saturday at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. The Campus Allianee for Rape Elimination (CAHE), along with Feminists United and the Sexual Identity and Diversity CoLT, is sponsoring this innovative evont in an effort to spread awarnnoss regarding the issuo of violence against women, CAHE president (;inger Franeis said. 
Francis, a junior, wanted to bring tho message behind Ensler's Monologues "closer to home." 
"We wanted to bring the production home to hear our community and see how women feel on this campus," she said. "It helps show that violence against women is not only real in our world, but it's happening around us. This is real in our eommunity." 
The community, however, has not always been so recep­tive. In previous years Saint Mary's has joined thousands of other organizations to take part in the annual V-day cele­bration. When an official per­formance of The Vagina Monologues in 2000 caused an overwhelmingly negative response from not only the immediate campus communi­ty but also such groups as the Board or Trustees, Parents' Council and alumnae, the stu­dents took it underground by hosting unofficial readings 
see CARE/ page 6 

count to be more than 300,000. 
Yet the origin of the situation is not l()(~ated with any spcd!ic eth­nic group, but with the Sahara Desert, which began to encroach on Northern Darfur, making water scarcer and increasing inherent tensions between ethni­cally Arab nomadic herders and African farmers. 
As precious resources became harder to lind, camel-and horse­riding Arab marauders began to raid African farming communi­ties, stealing crops and cattle, according to the international watchdog organization Human Hights Watch. Despite com­plaints to political leaders, the black African Darfurians felt the Arab-dominated Khartoum gov­ernment was deaf to their con­cerns. 
According to Hobert Dowd, C.S.C., a political science prof(Js­sor and Africa specialist, ten­sions gradually became height­ened as "black African groups in the Darfur region began to feel that they were being discrimi­nated against and neglected by the government in Khartoum." 
Some of these African Darfurians formed self-defense groups in the 1990s to defend against the Arab bandits, which gradually formed into two largn rnbel groups. 
"These movements began to attack government installations in the arna," Dowd said. 
The groups' ultimate aim was to end the economic marginal­ization of African Sudanese and to gain some Afriean self-govnr­nam~e in Darfur. Not surprisingly. the Sudanese govnrnmnnt grow anxious at the hostility or tlwse groups and in 2003, an armed conflict began between thmn and government forces. 
Since the Khartoum govern-
see SUDAN/page 4 



Service reflects on death penalty 

By JEN ROWLING News Wrirer 
The Community of Sant'Egidio held a special prayer service Thursday night at the Log Chapel to pray for and reflect upon those sen­tenced to the death penalty. 
This group, which began in 1968 as a small group of high school students in Rome, now consists of over 60,000 mem­bers from over 70 countries. The community works for jus-

Haitian scholar brings awareness 
Activist visits campus in order to 'stretch minds and hearts' 
By LYNN SIKORA 
N~sWrir~r 
llaitian scholar and activist l>jaloki Dnssablns has been visiting Saint Mary's campus this wenk to deliver a series of intnractivn prnsentations to discuss the importance or cross-eultural awareness and tho vital nnnd to nstablish cui­lund divnrsity for our own survival as human beings. 
"I mn hnrr~ to stretch minds and !warts out of the comfort zonn," Dnssablns said. "This 
rnquirns  us  to  bn  in  touch  
with  cultures  with  non­ 
Wnstnrn roots."  

Dessables hopes to help people understand the world is diverse. There arc many ways to experience the under­standing of humanity such as through life, reality and truth. 
"I am coming with a gift ­an unexpected gift for people who don't know they need to receive it," he said. "I hope they will accept it because it i_s som~thing that cannot be loreed. 
l>essables believes some of the answers for a sustainable future can be found in forgot­ten civilizations because they are considered to be poor, 
see HAITI/page 4 tice, including a global cam­paign opposing the death penalty. 

Thursday's service began with the attendees gathered in a circle participating in wor­ship songs, gospel readings and the reading of a letter written by death row inmate Dominique Green. The prayer service then turned toward more personal encounters with the death penalty. 
Notre Dame graduate stu­dent Melissa Broome reflected on the murder of her father ' when she was 11 years old. The murderer was a 23-year­old father and the son of a pastor. Broome's family lived in what she described as a safe California town. 
"We lived on the right side or the track," shfl said. 
Despite the perceivod safe surroundings, Broome's father was murdered during a rob­bery of his store. 
Broome remembers, as a child, telling her mom she did 
see PENALTY/page 9 


Grant allolVs SMC accountants to travel 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Assisram News Editor 
The Saint Mary's business department, with the finan­cial backing of the Colloge's 
Lilly grant funds,  took  30  
sophomores  interested  in  
business  careers  on  an  
overnight  trip  to  

Indianapolis. The group left Tuesday morning and will return this afternoon. 
The annual trip, which has been taken place for 20 years, has traditionally been to visit firms and companies in downtown Chicago. In th1~ past, stud11nts had to pay their own way, which occa­sionally made it dil'ficult for some individuals to attnnd, professor Claude Hnnshaw said. 
However, in Docember 2003, the Lilly Endowment of Indianapolis named Saint Mary's one of 37 Indiana col­leges and universities to receive $:38.9 million from a program called "An Initiative to Promote Opportunity through Educational Collaboration" which aims to keep college graduates in the 
see TRIP/page 9 

Friday, February 25, 2005 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A bittersweet day 
Today my term of the best student job at Notre Dame comes to an end. 
Many students do not have the same definition as me -working at lea..<;t 30 hours every week, giving up a lot of your social life and put­ting everything else second to your job. 
It's hard to explain to people when you talk about leaving the office as the sun rises, breakfast cooks in South Dining Hall or your 
L__:M:___a_t__..tL..-L-oz_a_r___, roommate awakens while you crawl into bed. 
But ask the per-Editor in Chief son taking over for me, and she'll agree. Ask the Editors in Chief from the past 38 years, and you'll get the same thing. 
There's something about this job that makes it all worth it. 
Racking my brain for the past couple of weeks to figure what it is, I've come to a conclusion. 
It's the people down here in the base­ment of South Dining Hall with me. 
I'll always remember the way the staff came together for the Notre Dame presi­dential change, a U.S. Presidential elec­tion and Notre Dame football coaching change. 
The way the news and sports staffs sucked it up to turn what could have been three stories into eight-page special sections. 
Three events that resulted in leaving the office past 5 a.m. after a 15-hour day. Three events worth every minute of that hard work. 
Three events that couldn't have been covered so well without my hard-work­ing staff. 
I'm not just paying lip service by say­ing that. 
I can honestly say without them, espe­cially Meghanne and Joe, the coverage of those events wouldn't have been as good. We couldn't have gone as in-depth or as broad with our stories covering those monumental events. 
But it's not the professional relation­ships that make thi'i place what it is, it's the personal ones. When you work from 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. with people, and do it all over again the next day, a bond develops. 
A bond that certainly won't be forgot­ten just because my name's not under­neath Editor in Chief anymore or because my four years underneath the Golden Dome have run out. 
So now I have two months to be a col­lege student. It starts on Thursday with a drive to Miami for a weeklong cruise in the Caribbean. 
It'll continue through the end of the semester with watching baseball· at the Eck and on my dish, frequenting the local watering holes during the week and maybe studying. (Okay, let's be hon­est, I'm a second semester senior). 
Finally it'll end with a Senior Week to remember and hopefully a picture-per­fect graduation weekend. 
Thanks Notre Dame, it's been one hell of a ride. And if you didn't like me, I at least did one thing right. The crossword was in the paper every day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reponing error, the first line of the "ROTC regarded in positive light" story on page 1 read "Despite the Catholic Church's opposition to the war in Iraq ... " The Church itself has not declared opposi­tion to the war. The line should have read, "Despite Pope John Paul II's opposition to the war in Iraq ... " 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE MOVIE? 





Chris Ban Lisa Lombardi Sarah Mattos Matthew Mundorf Charity Sadoy Michael Tesfay 
senior senior junior sophomore senior junior off-campus off-campus Farley Keough Howard Morrissey 
"Napoleon "The question is "Tupac. The "Nine Queens "Braveheart "Scarface ... 
,

Dynamite. Moon -why isn't Resurrection. boots." Good Wzll 
Hunting my favorite movie?" 
(Nueve Reinas). because it what better way It has some of reminds me of to learn the most my boyfriend business ethics intriguing plots. Steve Hill. " thanfrom a 
Unexpected ending, good twists." 


OFFBEAT 
Florida streaking goes awry 

KEY WEST, Fla. -A prosecutor who may have had a little too much to drink thought it would be funny to run naked across a parking lot and hop into a friend's car. 
It was funny, until he jumped into the wrong car. 
Albert Tasker, who works for the Monroe County State Attorney's Office, apparent­ly got in the back seat of a car occupied by a woman waiting for her boyfriend. 
The woman screamed and her boyfriend appeared. After the woman called 911, a Key West police officer found the naked Tasker in the middle of the parking lot. 
Blind man who bit dog charged 

EDINBURGH, Scotland ­A blind man who allegedly bit his guide dog has been charged with animal cruel­ty. 
David Todd is accused of sinking his teeth into the animal's head in a busy street, Scottish police said Thursday. 
A police spokesman said: "Any attack on a defense­less animal, particularly one trained to help people, is appalling." 
An eyewitness reported seeing the 34-year-old bite the dog and kick it repeat­edly at a shopping mall on Feb. 8, a spokeswoman for Lothian and Borders Police said. 
Officers arrested the sus­pect on Feb. 10 and charged him with animal cruelty and breach of the peace, the spokeswoman said. 
Police took the Labrador/retriever mix into protective care and handed it to the Guide Dogs for the Blind Association. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
:::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 

3: 
...I <1: 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 37

...I 
LOW 26 


32 22 


37 
23 

38 33 
drug-dealing killer?" 
IN BRIEF 

Karen Richman will give a lecture titled "Haitian Vodou: Arts, Culture and Religion" today at 3 p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art. 
"The Laramie Project," a play based on the 1998 murder of gay college student Matthew Shepard in Laramie, Wyo., will be presented this weekend in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Center. Prices are $12 for the general public, $10 for Notre Dame fac­ulty and staff and senior citi­zens, and $8 for students. 
A seminar on Praying with the Gifts of the Holy Spirit will be held on Saturday at 10:00 
a.m. in the Presbytery base­ment. The seminar will be lead by mystical theologian Fr. Edward O'Connor, CSC. 
Bud Welch will lead a discus­sion titled "From Rage to Reconciliation" on Sunday at 
5:30 p.m. in the West Wing in Noble Dining Room at St. Mary's. Welch's daughter, Julie, was killed in the Oklahoma City Bombing. 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams will participate in the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships Saturday from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Elizabeth Mazurek, Assoc­iate Professor, Department of Classics will present a colloqui­um Monday at 4:30p.m. in 131 Decio Hall entitled, "Ovid and the Judgment of Paris." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

35 15 


HIGH LOW 

r----------------------­
Friday, l~ebruary 25, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

RecSports seeks donors 
Blood drive registration table located at Rolf's 
By LISA SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
Most students entering Holf's H1~cn~alional Center an~ con­CI~rrwd with tlwir own lwalth. This wnnk. hownvnr. HecSports and tho South Bend Medical l;oundation switchnd tho focus to tlw wnll-hning of otlwrs. 
Blood donor recruitnr for the South Bend Medical Foundation .leanna Stuhnr said tlw blood d ri vn rngis tra lion tablo was sPl up at tho l'ront door t.o oncouragn watk-ins to takn limn out of thoir day to donatiL Tlw Holfs entryway location was stratl~gieally cho­st>n. 
"I found out about the drive lwcaus1~ it's at Holf's." senior Chris Keogel said. 
In addition to walk-in volun­teers. 6H donors signed up in advance on Wednesday and over 70 signed up to donate on Thursday. This exeeeded the Foundation's goal of 50 donors each day. All donations go to the Foundation's Central Blood Bank and are used in St. Joseph County. Stuber said that whiln there currently is no spe­dlie shortage in blood rns1wves, there is never a surplus. 
Aside from the sheer volume of donations, another objeetive was achinved from this drive. 
"We like to come to college campuses to got younger donors into a lifetime habit of donating blood," Stuber said. 
Drives at Holf's typically occur in October and at one point in the sumnwr as wnll. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at Lisa.M.Schultz.32@nd.edu 
New ID system set for fall'05 
Special to the Observer 
In response to student requests, and prompted by eoneern about identity theft in higher edueation, Notre Dame will diseontinue using student Soeial Security num­bers (SSNs) as primary iden­tifiers as of .June of this year. 
SSNs will bo replaced by a now identifier, ealled "ndiD," whieh will be view­ablo online by students beginning with registration for the summer 2005 ses­sion. 
"The University is timing this important ehange with the implementation of new administrative software," University Registrar llarold Pace said. "The transition from SSNs to new ndiDs should be relatively pain­
less." 

Paee noted that, in most cases, the easy-to-remember NetiDs (used in eonjunetion with a seeret password to log onto the Notre Dame network) eould be used in lieu of nd!Ds when prompt­ed for a unique identifier by one of Notre Dame's online services. 
The ndiDs will appear on elass rosters and other internal student lists pro­d ueed by tho OITice of the Hegistrar during the sum­mer and fall sessions ol' 2005. 
Soeial Seeurity numbers still will be colleeted as part of the admission and finan­eial aid process, but will only be used to meet specific linaneial business needs and will no longer be used as a primary identifier or appear 
on printed lists within the University. 
Current students can determine their ndiD by viewing the numbor on the baek of their ID eard. abov1~ the bar code. This night­digit number starting with "00" is eonv1~rtnd to the new milD by adding a "<J" as the first digit. As an 1~xample. if the number printod on tlw lD card is "00 12:H56." tlw new ndlD is "900123456." 
Nnw students nntnring tlw University aftor Ju1w, or any current studont roplacing his or her II> card aft11r June, will have the new nd!D printP<I on tlw ID eard. Tho ndlD will bncome active for University faculty and staff when tlw new adminis­trativo softwan~ for lluman Hesources boeomes avail­able in .June 200(,. 



ND physicists chosen as fellovvs 
Special to the Observer 
Throe Notre Dame physicists have been eleeted fdlows of the i\moriean Physical Society (i\PS) and the Institute of Physics (lOP), Unitod Kingdom. 
Ikaros Bigi and Malgorzata Dobrowolska-Jiu rdyna, profes­sors of physics, were named APS follows. and Jacek Furdyna, Aurora and Tom Marquez Professor of Physics, was named a fellow of the lOP. 
Bigi was cited for correetly 

predieting large CP violation in B meson decays. Dobrowolska­Furdyna was cited lhr hor sem­inal contributions to the under­standing of the role of electron spin in optical transitions in semiconduetor eornpounds. Furdyna was electod in rocog­nition of his status in tlw physics community. 
Tho APS fellowship program was created to honor mombers who have made advances in knowledge through original research and publication or who havn mado signifkant and innovativn contributions in tlw application of physics to sci­~~nee and to1~hnology. l~ach yoar. no morn than one-half of I percent of tlw tlwn-rurrnnl. nwmlwrship of tlw society is elected. 
Bigi's n~soareh is dirnetNI mainly toward dnvnloping tiH•­oretical ideas that will suggest novel nwthods for uncovering 
· new physic.s hoyond tlw stan­dan! model of high I'Jwrgy physics. 
11 vou are looking to get Involved with on campus events, take alook at what Student Union Board has to onerl Right now, SUB Is curronuv accepting applications for tho SUB Executive Board. 
Positions include: 
Directorof PublicitY* * Directorof Operations* * 
* Directorof Programming* Chief Controller 
• Each of the executive positions is similar to an internship in marketing, event planning, human resources, and accounting, respectively. Further descriptions of each position can be found on the Executive Board Application. 
This Is aureal wav to have an Impact on studentIno at Notre Dame while learning the Invaluable skills of leadershiP, teamwork, and time management. 
Not only is a position on the SUB Executive Board an extensive learning opportunity, it is also A LOT OF FUN. From movies to concerts, comedy shows to hypnotists, SUB has it all. Enjoy your time at ND by making it more fun for your fellow students. Join SUB!! Applications for the Executive Board can be found on the SUB website (sub.nd.edu) or can be picked up from the Student Govt Office (203 LaFortune). All SUB Executive Applications are due 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28 to 203 LaFortune. 
Please considerthis excellentoppportunitvto uetinvolvedl 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 25, 2005 

Sudan 
continued from page 1 
ment was also attempting to quell another, even longer-stand­ing uprising in Southern Sudan, they lacked the resources to fully engage on both fronts and accordingly hired and armed a large Arab militia force to com­bat the Darfurian rebel groups. These militias are known by Darfurians as Janjaweed -liter­ally, "those who attack on horse­back." 
Although the Sudanese gov­ernment has consistently main­tained that both its own soldiers and the Janjaweed militias have used exdusively to combat rebel troops, both the Janjaweed and the official Sudanese armed forces have specifically targeted black Darfurian civilians. sys­tematically destroying hundreds of villages, according to Human Rights Watch. Often, the Sudanese air force has attacked villages with bombs or machine guns, after which a joint force of Janjaweed and the Sudanese army kill the remaining Darfurians and raze the village. Moreover, Sudanese soldiers and Janjaweed militias have carried out a systematic campaign of rape throughout Darfur as part their ethnic cleansing. The ulti­mate goal of this killing and rape has been to eradicate the poten­tial population pool for the rebel groups that oppose the oppres­sive Khartoum government, Dowd said. 
"What we find happening in Darfur amounts to a final solu­tion in the eyes of the govern­ment in Khartoum," Dowd said. "The final solution is the elimi­nation of black Africans in the region." 
This final solution has been in large part effective, leaving hun­dreds of thousands dead and decimating Darfur's adult male population. Many of the women ity with suffering Darfurians and left behind without homes and to protest the atrocities taking husbands have borne children of place there. Thus far. the group rape, furthering the Khartoum has distributed about 3,000 rib­government's goal to ethnically bons, said Stephanie Aberger, cleanse the Darfur region of one of the Green Ribbon cam­non-Arab Africans. paign student coordinators. 

The crisis in Darfur eventually The group is now in the gained some attention in the process of sending a letter to international community, and Secretary of State Condoleeza the atrocities there were deemed Rice requesting that the U.S. ethnic cleansing by the United government work to effect an Nations in March 2004. The immediate arms embargo of Bush administration went a step Sudan, provide the necessary 
further, declar­ funds for the fledgling  
ing that geno­cide had  "What we find  African Union to pro­tect vulnerable  
occurred there,  happening in  Darfurians  and  to  
sending hun­dreds of mil­lions of dollars in humanitari­ Darfur amounts to a final solution in the eyes ofthe  endorse the International Criminal Court to prosecute those Sudanese and  
an aid money and promising to send more.  government in Khartoum."  Janjaweed leaders who have perpetrated genocide.  
Although the  The  students  
Khartoum gov­ Robert Dowd  responsible for the  
ernment  and  Africa specialist  Green Ribbon cam­ 

Darfurian rebel groups signed a ceasefrre in April 2004, it has been largely without effect, as human rights violations have continued on both sides, accord­ing to Human Rights Watch. The optimists claiming that violence in the region has been reduced fail to recognize that it has decreased largely because the Sudanese government has been so successful in ridding Darfur of its black African population, according to Human Rights Watch. Most of those who have not been killed have generally fled to neighboring Chad, and nearly all international commen­tators recognize that the situa­tion in Darfur is far from resolved. 
Here at Notre Dame, a group of concerned students has attempted to raise awareness of the crisis in Darfur. In October, they began the Green Ribbon campaign, passing out green rib­bons on campus to show solidar­
paign have also suc­
ceed in organizing a large symposium, entirely stu­dent-run, on the future of Darfur. The conference, which took place Wednesday, included three primary speakers: John Prendergast, former advisor on Africa to President Clinton, Larry Minear, director of the Humanitarianism and War proj­ect at Tufts University, and Francis Dong, research profes­sor of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University and the former Sudanese ambassador to the United States. The students who organized the symposium man­aged to raise over $10,000 through various University grants, Aberger said, and they hope the conference will raise awareness of Darfur and pro­mote creative solutions to the crisis there. 
Contact Michael Busk at mbusk@nd.edu 

Haiti 

continued from page 1 
primitive and backwards. 
Saint Mary's is the first stop on Dessables' American speaking tour of schools and churches. The College established a con­tact with Dessables when the justice education pro­gram held a Haiti immer­sion course during Fall Break 2003. Dessables said he felt very honored to receive the invitation to speak on campus. 
"The future of humanity lies in the hands of women," Dessables said. "I am very supportive of what women can do for a new real world." 
Dessables' visit is spon­sored by the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, Sisters of Nefertiti, Justice Education Program, InterCultural Studies Program, the department of religious studies, Anthropology Club, Residence Hall Association, Peacemakers and the NO Haiti Program. 
Justice education program director Jan Pilarski views the visit as a wonderful way to expose students to a cul­ture of people who have great hope and leadership despite the pain and strug­gle of their country. 
"Haiti is a place of real learning -it is a good way to live," she said. "They have a deep connection to spiritual life and a sophisti­cated understanding of world politics in relation to their daily lives." 
Haiti Awareness Week is another attempt to intro­duce students to other kinds of black history. With an inl1ux of Haitians coming to America, it is vital to under­stand their African and American roots, Pilarski said. 
Notre Dame will hold a public lecture at the Snite Museum on today at 3 p.m. about the vodou art exhibit on display. 
"Just looking at the art is not enough -you have to understand it too," Dessables said. 
Contact Lynn Sikora at siko0495@saintmarys.edu 









ORLD & NATION 
f;riday, February 25, 2005 CoMPILED FROM T1-1E OBsERVER's WIRE SERvrcEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Serb general indicted for massacre 
BFI.CIIi\I>H, Snrbia-Montenngro -A snnior Bosnian Serb gnrwral indietnd l'or his allc•gnd rolP in a massacn~ ol' thou­sands ol' Muslims during tlw Bosnian war stll'rPrHinrnd to tlw UnitiHI Nations war crimns tribunal Thursday. 
llntirnd c;nn. Milan c;vnro was a closn aidn to wart.imn Bosnian Snrh t:ommand­1'1' Cl'n. Halko Mladic. a top war crimns l'ugitiVI'. (;vnro is rhargnd with tlw force­ful Pxpulsion and murdnr ol' Muslims on tlw nvn ol' and during thn I 1JIJ5 Bosnian Snrh onslaught on Srebrnnit:a, where mort' than 7,000 Muslim men and boys WPI'I~ PXnruted. 
Art:onling to tlw indirtnwnt unst~aled in T lw II a g uP on Thursday, Gv n r o was arrusnd ol' hnlonging to "a joint criminal Pnterprise" t.hat included Mladie and !'or­mer Bosnian Serb leader Hadovan Karadzic. 
Syria said it will move troops soon 
BI·:IHUT. Lnhanon Syria said Thursday it will begin withdrawing its troops in I.PIHtnon eloser to its own bor­der. a movn dnsigned to blunt interna­tional dnmands for a complete pullout and to Pasn a groundswnll of anti-Syrian sentinwnt. 
But a dissatisf'ind United States said llw movn was not enough and demanded a full withdrawal from tho Midnast nation. 
"This rwnds to happnn immediately," Statn Departmnnt spoknsman Tom Casey said. A rnsolution by the U.N. Security Council "calls in elnar, unPquivocal terms for all fornign forens to withdraw from Ln hanon." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Canada rejects U.S. missle program 
TOHONTO -Prime Ministnr Paul Martin said Thursday that Carmela would not join the con­ttmtious U.S. missile dofonsn program, a deci­sion that will further strain brittle relations lu~tween the nnighbors but please Canadians who fi~ar it could load to an intnrnational arms race. 
The Bush administration has tried to make a public show of understanding that Martin heads up a minority govornmont that eould fall over such a contontious dnbate. But after the announemnent. U.S. Ambassador Paul Cellucci told n~porters hn was perplexed over Canada's dt~eision, which he said effectively allows Washington to decido what to do if a missile was headml toward Canada. 
Man kills two with AK-47 in rampage 
TYLEH-A man with an AK-47 assault rifle optmnd fire in a historie town squarn Thursday, killing his ex-wife and a bystander in a ram­page prompted by a child support dispute. The gunman was later killed. 
Four poopln were wounded, induding the gunman's son and three law oflicers. 
Tho gunman. David Hernandez Arroyo Sr., was shot in the melee oul-;ide the county court­housn belilre fleoing tho seene. lie fired at ofli­cors through the roar window of his pickup truck in a chase that lastod several milos, Tyler police chitlf(;ary Swindle said. 
i\uthoritins belinve he may have been shot through tho same window during the chase. lie was pronounced dead on arrival at a hospital. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Middle school teacher charged 
PAOLI. Ind. -A former southern Indiana middle school teacher has been charged with having sexual relations with a female student over a three-year period that started when she was 13 years old, police said. 
Erich Zink, 29, of Salem, surrendered the Orange County Jail on Tuesday on an arrest warrant charging him with a count sexual misconduct with a minor, a charge punish­abln by six years to 20 years in prison if con­victed. 
Pope breathes with respirator 
Successful tracheotomy clears airway, helps pontiffbreathe after return to hospital 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY -Popo John Paul II underwent a successful oporation Thursday night to insert a tubn in his throat to relieve his breathing prob­lmns, hours after he was rushed back to the hospi­tal for tho second timo in a month with flu-like symp­toms of fever and conges­tion, the Vatican said. 
The pontiff was con­scious in his hospital room al'ter the tracheotomy, breathing with the help of' a respirator, the Italian news agency ANSA report­ed. 
A top aide to Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi who visited tho popo Thursday said John Paul was "serene" after waking up from the anes­thesia. The pope raised his hand and attempted to spoak with doctor's but was told not to try, Cabinet Undersecretary Gianni Letta told reporters at Gemolli Polyclinic I Iospital in Home. 
Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said the tracheotomy lasted 30 minutes and that the out­come was "positive." The pope had approved the procedure, which the Vatican characterized as elective -underscoring he was readmitted so 11. The Holy Father is in from Nigoria to the that it was not done as an quickly is not good. All this our thoughts and prayers Philippines to St. Peter's emergency measure. suggests there's a serious and we wish him a spoedy Square, and raised morn 
The frail, 84-year-old problem," said Dr. Michael recovery and return to the doubts about his ability to pontiff, who was taken to Kaplitt, a Parkinson's dis­service of his church and earry on. the hospital shortly before ease expert at New York of all humanity." "We havn prayed for the 11 a.m. in an ambulance, Presbyterian In recent days, the pope pope to live as long as pos­was to spend the night in llospital/Woill Cornell appeared to be recuperat­sible so wo can still sham his hospital room, Medical Center. ing from an illness that our joy with him," said Navarro-Valls said. Before the tracheotomy, kept him in the hospital Zof'ia Gebala. a 73-year­
But the tracheotomy outside medical exports for 10 days earlier this old retiree, as slw left a may require a longer hos­had said John Paul may month. On Wednesday, he church in Wadowice, tho pital stay and have serious have pneumonia. However, gave a 30-minute audience popo's birthplace in south­consequences for the Navarro-Valls' statement by video hookup, reading a ern Poland. "We arn pray­pope's abilities to carry made no reference to statement in six languages ing for him every day, for out his duties since he will pneumonia, saying tho before waving and giving his well-boing. But it's all not be able to speak, at pope· suffered a narrowing his blessing at the end. in God's hands now." least initially, while the of his larynx. With each successive Vanessa Animo Bono, breathing tube is in his President Bush, flying appearance, he seemed a 32, a Catholk bning treat­throat. home from a European little stronger, a little more ed at Gemelli, expressed 
Medical experts said the trip, said in a statement: alert, and his voice rang f'oar bncause of thn pope's respirator was a serious "On behalf of' all out with greater clarity. recent treatment. "lie is development. "Tho fact Americans, Laura and I That made Thursday's one of' the few popns who that he is on a respirator send our heartfelt best reversal all the more is actually able to listen to is not good. The fact that wishes to Pope John Paul shocking for the faithful people." 

Bush challenges Russian leader 
Associated Press 

B HATISLAVA, Slovakia Struggling to repair troubled rela­tions, President Bush prodded Vladimir Putin on Thursday about Moscow's retreat from democracy but the Russian leader bluntly rejected the criticism and insisted there was no backsliding. 
"Strong countries are built by developing strong democracies," Bush said he told Putin. "I think Vladimir heard me loud and clear." 
"Hussia has made its choice in favor of democracy," the Russian leader replied. 
Confronting criticism that he is quashing dissent and consolidat­ing power, Putin said Russia chose democracy 14 years ago and "there can be no return to what we used to have before." 
Four years after Bush said he had gotten a sense of Putin's soul and found him trustworthy, the two leaders talked for 2 1/2 hours at a hilltop castle in hopes of eas­ing mounting distrust between Moscow and Washington. Bush said he had not changed his opin­ion of Putin and wanted to remain friends. 
"This is the kind of fellow who, when he says 'Yes,' he means yes, and when he says 'No,' he means no," Bush said. 
Yet Bush challengfld Putin about his government's bohavior, saying that democracies refloet a coun­try's customs and culture but must have "a rule of law and protection of minorities, a free press and a viable political opposition." lin said he talked with Putin about his "concerns about Hussia's commit­ment in fulfilling these universal principles"and about Putin's restrictions on the press. 
''I'm not the minister of propa­ganda," Putin said, standing alongside Bush at a news confer­ence. 
Friday, February 25, 2005 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
CARE 
continued from page 1 
separate from the College. 

With hopes of reuniting stu­dents and administration, this year's SMC Monologues will share nearly 30 readings sub­mitted anonymously by stu­dents, faeulty, staff and Sisters of the Holy Cross. So far, the responses are promis­ing, Francis said. 
"We were floored with the amount of responses," she said. "We have administration behind us and have heard nothing but positive feed­back." 
Students are not the only ones looking forward to the weekend. Catherine Pittman, associate professor of psy­chology and faeulty advisor to CAHE, said she is proud to be a part of this event. 
"I believe that the SMC Monologues are one of the most important events I have been involved with a:t Saint Mary's," she said. "It provides an opportunity for students to refleet on their experiences in nne of the most personal and sensitive realms of their lives: their sexuality." 
Other faculty members echoed Pittman's enthusiasm. 
Women's studies coordina­tor Astrid Henry gave the Monologues a full endorse­ment. 
"I enthusiastically support the SMC Monologues and their performances this week­end," said llenry. "Women telling their stories about their bodies and their sexuali­ties is the central mission of The Vagina Monologues, and I think the SMC Monologues eontinues that tradition while taking it in a new direction." 
With the first production only a day away, anticipation is mounting among both par­ticipants and the community as a whole. 
''I'm just really excited about how much more appli­cable this is to the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame com­munity," said junior partici­pant Marisa Sandahl. "I hope, 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 



OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

Poker Chips from $4.95/50 
Texas HnlrlA;m 
from Poker Tables from $299.00 
Rentals Available 
Large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. SOS1 0 St. Rd. 933N • South Bead 


574-272-1617 

about celebrating being a woman and not only finding a voice within yourself, but also in the world." 
Many feel this initiative rep­resents the values and atti­tude encompassed in a Saint Mary's woman. 
"Saint Mary's women don't sit on the sidelines and watch," Pittman said. "They act. They lead. They speak out. And that's what SMC Monologues is all about." 
Admission to the production is free with a suggested $3 donation at the door. All pro­ceeds benefit SOS, the rape crisis center for St. Joseph County. 
Contact Danielle Lerner at lern6311@saintmarys.edu 



Now, 
there's no charge for incoming calls. 

Unlimited CALL ME Minutes are not deducted from packaged minutes and are only available in the local calling area. Local calling area differs from regional calling area. Mobile Messaging -a charge of $.10 per outgoing message applies if no messaging package is selected or existing package limit is exceeded. Picture Messaging requires U.S. Cellular-approved phone and usage plan. Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes valid Monday through Friday 9 p.m. to 5:59 a.m. and all day Saturday and Sunday. Night and weekend· minutes are available in local calling area. Local calling area differs from regional calling area. See map and rate sheet for details. Offer valid only on two year consumer service agreement on local and regional plans of $39.95 or higher. Monthly Access Discount 50% access discount valid for the first 3 months of a 2 year agreement on plans $39.95 and up. All service agreemen1s subject to an ear1y termination fee. Credit approval required. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges, overage charges and taxes apply. $0.55 Federal and Other Regulatory charge applies. This Is not a tax or government required charge. Local network coverage and reliability may vary. Usage rounded up to the next full minute. Use of service constitutes acceptance of our terms and conditions. Other restrictions apply. See store for details. Limited time offer ©2005 U.S.Cellular Corporation. 
and courageously write about their own experiences," Henry said. "Some Monologues are heartbreak­ingly sad, some express anger and some are laugh-out-loud funny, but all help to tell the story of what it means to be a 
woman." 

if anything, people realize that the body is not something to be afraid of. Awareness and prevention go hand in hand." 
The SMC Monologues are intended for a mature audi­enee only, as some of the con­tent portrays 
instanees of Although The
"Saint Mary's 
rape, violence V a g i n a and sexuality. women don't sit on Monologues have Hegardless, audi­been known to
the sidelines and 
ence members invoke feelings of
watch."
are sure to expe­discomfort rience a wide among some, 
range of emo­Catherine Pittman Pittman feels tions. these feelings are
CARE faculty advisor
"I am particu­vital in the quest larly impressed for awareness by our students' ereativity and the battle of prevention.. and energy, not to mention "Of course, we are con­their willingness to honestly cerned about provoking dis­comfort," she said. "But we know that such discomfort is necessary if we want to change our community to be more aware of sexual assault, to be more accepting of diver­sity and to be more under­standing of ourselves." 
Despite varying views on Eve Ensler and the controver­sy surrounding her work, the message behind the V-day movement is aimed at stop­ping violenee against women. With sexual erimes being committed against one in four college women, the impact of these offenses cannot be ignored. 
"It is hard to face the idea of violence against women," Francis said. "But this is about more than that. This is 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Friday, February 25, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,748.79 +75.00
}ones£  
Up: 2,301  Same: 138  Down: Composite Volume: 1.-P?O 1,516,042,496 ,,~  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&PSOO  I ,505.34 2,051.70 7,283.28 I ,200.20  +7.45 +20.45 +40.00 +9.40  

NIKKEI(fokyo) I I , 6 2 7. 3 6 +96.21 FTSE IOO(London) 4,972. I 0 -16.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ IOOTRSERI(QQQQ) + 1.27 +0.47 37.41 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.67 +0.17 25.37 INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.67 +0.39 23.70 YAHOO INC (YHOO) -1.99 -0.64 31.48 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.58 -0.10 17.18 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.04 +0.02 46.63 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.30 +0.13 42.81 5-YEAR NOTE +0.85 +0.33 38.95 3-MONTH BILL +0.46 +0.12 26.37 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.22 51.39 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.40 436.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.20 86.78 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 05.3500 EURO 0.7572 POUND 0.5231 CANADIAN$ 1.2390 
IN BRIEF 
Mittal leader will cut 45,000 jobs 
CL!o:V!o:Li\NI> -The loader of Nethnrlands­hasml Mittal Stnnl Co. NV says he wants to cut tlw company's work liwce by about 45,000 jobs aft11r it mnrges with International Steel Group Inc. Tho cuL'i would amount to nnarly 30 percent of thn eornhint~d stenlrnaker's work foree. 
Ownnr Lakshmi Mittal said Wednesday during a spnneh to analysts in Chieago that he would likn to snn Mittal's 155.000-nrnployee work foree drop to about 110,000 workers in about live years. 
The 1:omhined eompany would have about I0,000 workers in northwest Indiana-5,000 at thn current !spat Inland mill in East Chicago, along with 1,600 for ISG in East Chicago and :~.700 at ISG's Burns llarbor mill. 
Mittal. who spoke Wmlnesday f(Jr morn than an hour on a range of issues about the company's financial plans, was addressing an analyst's gen­t~ral qunstion about how big the eompany's work foree was. The conference was broadcast on Mittal's Web sitn. 
Nash Fmch agrees to $225 million deal 
MINNE/\POLIS -Nash Finch Co. said Thursday it has agreed to pay $225 million for two Houndy's Inc. wholesale food distribution centnrs in Indiana and Ohio, as well as two stores in Ohio. 
The deal is expneted to improve productivity and buying ellideneies and to add immediately to earnings. Minneapolis-based Nash Finch said. 
The food distribution company said it will aequire the Houndy's distribution centers in Westville, Ind., and Lima, Ohio, which together rnprnsent about $t billion in annual food distri­bution sales and serve more than 500 customers, mainly in Indiana. Illinois, Ohio and Michigan. 
N<L'ih Finch does not expect to close any facili­tins <L'i a result of the acquisition. 
Plans for first NY Wai-Mart revoked 
NEW YOHK -A real estate developer serappnd plans to build the city's first Wal-Mart ston~ amid intense pressure from residents and union leaders. 
The decision, announced by city officials Wndnnsday, eomns as a blow to the retail giant, which has sought for years to move into the lucrative New York City market. 
Boeing contract ruled invalid 
Involvement with former senior Air Force official seen as a conflict of interests 
Associated Press 

Wi\SIIINGTON -The i\ir Forcn improperly favor11d Tho Booing Co. on a $4 billion eontraet to upgrade C-130 eargo planes, congressional investigators said Thursday. 
The Government i\eeountability Ortiee sidnd with Lockheed Martin Corp.. Bi\E Systems and L­3 Communications Inc., which complained last year that the C-130 con­tract award was tainted by the involvement or a l'onner senior i\ir Foree off'icial who has admitted giving special treatment to Boning. 
Darl1wn Druyun, who later took a job at the Chicago-based airplane maker, is serving nino months in prison for vio­lating federal conl'lict or interest laws. 
"Tho record ... shows that the i\ir Foree con­ducted discussions in a manner that favored Boeing," according to a two-page summary from the G/\0, the investigative arm of Congress. 
"On tho basis ol' the record presented, the i\ir Force has failed to demon­
AP 
Boeing's ex-chief financial officer Michael Sears, left, leaves court with his lawyer.
strate that Druyun's 
Sears hired Darleen Druyun, whose role with Lockheed Martin led to the formation
acknowledged bias did not 
of an illegal contract, congessional investigators said. 
prejudice the three pro­testers," the report said. C-130 modernization con­Druyun. We commend how much of the $4 billion 
The GAO said it normal­tract continues on sched­GAO's prompt adjudica­contract would bn ly would have recom­ule. tion of the protest and will reopened for competition. mended an entirely new "We will await the Air address their ruling Boeing won a dovolop­competition. But because Force's decision on GAO's accordingly." ment contraet, valund at. much of the C-130 con­recommendations. In the Last week, the GAO about $970 million. But tract has been in place for meantime, Boeing will upheld Lockheed's protest officials worn not sure more than three years, continue to support the of a $2.5 billion i\ir Foree how much of tho rnmain­that may not be practical, Air Force's requirement to contract awarded to ing $3 billion would be put the agency said. field a vastly more capable Boeing to build precision out to bid and how mtH'.h 
The report recommend­and modernized C-130 bombs that can be would remain with ed that the i\ir Force hold fleet under the current launched from a fighter Boeing. new competitions for the development contraet," plane, bomber or Keith Ashdown, vice remaining parts the con­Boeing spokesman Paul unmanned aircraft. president of Taxpayers for traet and look into how to Guse said. Lockheed had protested Common Snnsn, a govern­compensate the three Doug Karas, an Air the award because of ment watchdog group. companies that protested Force spokesman, said the Boeing's ties to Druyun. called the G/\0 report the award to Boeing. resolution of the protest Boeing's ex-chief finan­"further confirmation that 
A Lockheed spokesman allows the Air Force "to cial officer, Michael Sears, Darlenn I>ruyun said Thursday the compa­continue moving forward was sentenced to four unscrupulously steernd ny was pleased by the in repairing the harm months in prison last billions of dollars of i\ir GAO report. caused to its acquisition week for his role in hiring Force contracts to the 
Boeing said in a state­system by the illegal and Druyun. do1!.rstep of the Boeing ment that its work on the unethical actions of Miss It was unclear Thursday Co. 


ChokePoint breach puts users at risk 
opened more than 50 ChoicePoint car. They'll try to buy and then they'll
Associated Press 

accounts by posing as legitimate busi­discover that their credit is ruinnd." 
SAN FRANCISCO -Warren Lambert nesses. More than 9.9 million i\rnericans worn thought it was just another piece of junk Lambert, a retired banker in San victims of identity theft last ynar, erimes mail until he read the letter more closely Francisco, now spends several hours a that cost the nation roughly $5 billion and learned that con artists may have day phoning customer service agents, not including lost prodm~tivity, according obtained his Social Security number, poring over credit card statements, to the U.S. Postal Inspection Serviee. name and address -just what they ordering credit reports and checking The Federal Trade Commission ranks need to steal his identity and ruin his bank accounts. identity theft as the No. 1 fraud-rnlatnd credit. He worries that thieves will eventuaiJy complaint. 
Lambert is one of nearly 145,000 do to him what sheriffs detectives in Los Many victims are dumbfounded by tho Americans rendered vulnerable by a Angeles say they've done to more than dearth of federal and state laws ain1nd breach of the computer databases of 700 other people -reroute his mail, at protecting their credit historins and ChoicePoint Inc .. a leading trafficker in a ring up credit card debts, buy a ear or other information about them that data growing pool of information about who even commit a felony in his name. brokers gather and soli to institutions we are, what we own, what we owe and "Now I have to be on a credit monitor­including news organizations. banks even where we go. ing service and look over my shoulder and, increasingly, companies vetting 
The Georgia-based company began for the rest of my life," said Lambert, 67. prospe1tive employeos. Vktims are also mailing the warning letters after "I feel sorry for the younger victims who frustratnd by the amount of time it takns acknowledging this month that thieves are eventuaiJy going to buy a house or a to re-ostablish identities. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 25, 2005 
Young cellular phone users difficult to track 
Growing population poses problem for pollsters 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -They're mainly young, single and urban. They move frequently, usually renting rather than owning their homes. Pollsters call them "cell phone only" because they don't own traditional phones. 
As this hard-to-track popula­tion grows, so does the problem of accurately incorporating them into polling and scientific surveys that seek to measure everything from health and business practices to political attitudes. 
For now, the problem is most pressing in areas of research where the attitudes of young adults are sought, like surveys of radio listener preferences. 
Paul Lavrakas, a public opin­ion researcher at Nielsen Media Research, organized a meeting in New York City this month where pollsters and others involved in survey research dis­cussed ways to address the cell­phone-only issue. One major aim is to learn how to deal with this population before the next presidential election. 
"What the industry doesn't know how to do is how to statis­tically balance those reached by cell phones with those reached on land lines," said Lavrakas. 
The cell-phone-only popula­tion is growing fast. In 2001, it comprised about a half-percent of the population. Now it's esti­mated at 7 percent. Among people age 15 to 24, almost one in five have only cell phones, according to Clyde Tucker, a researcher at the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
The industry has to deal with the cell phone issue while it's still manageable or it will be doing that research work when cell phones have become a problem for surveys -"and that's not a good practice," said Mike Brick, a statistician at Westat, which handles scientific surveys for the federal govern­ment. 
The cell-phone-only issue is just the latest challenge facing survey researchers. People have shown less willingness to talk to survey researchers, especially on the phone. Many polls are conducted on the tele­phone, the fastest and most effi­cient way to do a survey. But some surveys are done face to face. 
Raj Naik, a 26-year-old employee of a software compa­ny who lives in Rosslyn, Va., is a good example of the "cell phone only" crowd. 
l-Ie got rid of the traditional phone because most of the calls he received "were calls I didn't want to take." Naik said he wouldn't mind getting calls from survey researchers "if those calls aren't costing me anything, but as soon as some­one calls me on my cell phone, it's costing me something." 
That's part of the problem for pollsters: Cell phone users don't expect to get survey calls. When they do, many are uncoopera­tive. 
"People say, 'Do you know you're calling me on my cell phone?'" said Charlotte Steeb, a Georgia State researcher who has done experimental cell phone surveys. "Some people mentioned the privacy issue, saying, 'How did you get my number? I only give it out to family and friends.' Some just hang up immediately." 
Rob Stuart, a 23-year-old per­sonal trainer in Washington, said he doesn't see a need for a land line. 
"I might get one if I had a family or someone else living with me or if I was working out of my house," he said. 
Leading up to the 2004 presi­dential election there was con­cern polling would suffer because of difficulties reaching cell phone users. Surveyors accommodated for this by giv­ing extra weight to young adults, and the phone polls turned out to be generally accu­rate. 
'The industry dodged a bullet this time," said Scott Keeter of the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press. 
-~····­


Drugs tnay reduce AIDS cases 
New combination could prevent mother-child transmissions 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -Scientists fighting the ravages of AIDS in the Third World have shown con­vincingly that a short and rela­tively inexpensive combination of HIV drugs could reduce mother-to-baby transmission rates in Africa far more effec­tively than the single pill now used. 
But the cost of the drug com­binations could still be prohibi­tive in some of the most impov­erished parts of the world. 
Scientists have long been searching for an alternative to the AIDS drug now widely used in the Third World, nevirapine. Nevirapine is cheap and highly effective at preventing babies from contracting the AIDS virus from their mothers. But up to two-thirds of women become resistant to the drug. 
The drug combinations appear to have an extremely low rate of resistance, and offer a relatively inexpensive and easy-to-take alternative for many women. 
"This is very promising for low-income countries," said one of the researchers, Dr. Francois Dabis of Victor Segalen University in Bordeaux, France. 
However, the drug combina­tion would likely cost more than double the usual $8 for a single dose of nevirapine for mother and newborn. As it is now, some countries cannot even afford nevirapine. 
"It's important not to be rap­idly overoptimistic," said Dr. Mary Fowler, a U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention specialist in mother-to-baby HIV transmission. 'The trans­lation from trials to programs is incredibly challenging." 
The findings were presented in Boston on Thursday at the 12th Annual Retrovirus Conference, the world's chief scientific meeting on AIDS. 
In impoverished lands, nevi­rapine is widely given in single doses to infected pregnant women in labor and then to their newborns. 
In the United States, the com­plete three-drug HIV cocktail has cut mother-to-baby trans­mission rates to around 2 per­cent. But patients in the United States are given longer treat­ments, and drugs that are far more effective and expensive than those tested in Africa. 
The African studies -one in the Ivory Coast, one in Botswana -reduced rates at four to six weeks after birth to about 5 percent, the lowest ever recorded in Africa. Nevirapine in single doses typi­cally reduces that rate from around 35 percent to 12 per­cent. 
In the Ivory Coast study, French and African-based researchers used single-dose nevirapine in 329 women, but coupled it with two other com­mon AIDS drugs: AZT and 3TC, sold collectively as Combivir. The Combivir was given to the mothers during pregnancy and for three days after birth. The newborns were also given sin­gle-dose nevirapine and AZT. 
At 6 weeks of age, fewer than 5 percent of the newborns were infected. Drug resistance was also extraordinarily low in the mothers. Only 1 percent became resistant to nevirapine, and just 8 percent to 3TC. 
In the Botswana study of 1,179 births, mothers were given multi-week AZT alone, and in combination with single­dose nevirapine. 
The World Health Organization is expected to consider broadening its guide­lines soon in light of research on such new regimens. Its rec­ommendations now include single-dose nevirapine and an AZT-nevirapine regimen. 
"For a minimum additional cost, we may get many bene­fits,'' said Dr. James Mcintyre, an AIDS researcher in South Africa. 
However, several re­searchers cautioned that sin­gle-dose nevirapine will still be needed in many places. 
"It is essential to preserve single-dose nevirapine as an option when more complex regimens are unavailable," said Mark Isaac, vice president of policy at the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation in Washington. 
A separate arm of the Botswana study also gave a boost to advocates of breast feeding for HIV-infected women. Some babies were breast-fed and treated with AZT for six months, while oth­ers were given formula. More of the first group contracted HIV, as expected, since the virus can be passed through breast milk. However, the two groups had almost identical rates of HIV-free survival after 18 months. 
Doctors have long known that the AIDS virus can be transmitted through breast milk. But many are reluctant to discourage breast-feeding in the Third World, since formula feeding has been linked in the past to more baby illnesses and deaths from a variety of caus­es. 



CLOSING COST gagesI 

raisal fee 
insurance fee 
umentotion fee ination fee 
ply, 

EN FEES! 
·"''rt"m"" loans un,jer $50,000 or on construction-permanent loons, and associated with the loon closing. Offer rnoy be withdrawn 
~ 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
lnd&pendenl of th& Unlverolty 


February, 25, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 


Trip 
continued from page l 
statn. 

T lw g r a n t h a s p r o v i d n d funding for Saint Mary's far~­ully and studnnts for various acadl'rnir~ and earenr-orinnt­Pd projl'cts and trips within the statn, such as this wenk's trip to Indianapolis. 
"Wn trind to conw up with diffnrnnt idnas lfor grant us11l and orw of tlwrn was this annual trip to Chicago," Henshaw said. 
In thn fall. Hnnshaw ernat­nd and submittPd a proposal for thn trip to Indianapolis to thn committee that ovnr­snr~s tlw grant mo nny. II e was givnn $2,500 to pay for a chartnrnd bus and hotel rooms, making the trip vir­tually fren for him and his studnnts. l~aeh participant is 
fa1~nless to hnr. Slw said slw felt this n~alization was "proof that tlw systnm strips away humanity." 
Broomn said that one night slw had a dmam lwr father's mur­dnn~r had bnen BXIH~utnd. She dnscrib1~d waking up panicked. 
paying just $10 out of' pock­will become the permanent et. destination for thA trip. 
While in Indianapolis, tho "I think we can do it next group will visit sevnral ynar if we want to and then notabln eompanins and wn can nvaluate it ... and potnntial future omployers maybe we will be pleasantly such as Union Federal Bank surprised," he said. and Dnloitte & Touchn. Participant Erica Valdnz 
"Wn have a said she is look­eontaet at each ing forward to place, and pri­"/ know that it will s e n i n g marily they are Indianapolis and
be nice to make 
through Saint visiting snveral 
some connections
Mary's gradu­accounting ates," Henshaw ... we don't meet firms. said. "That is "I think it is a
too many alums 
thn nnat thing better experi­
around campus. " 
about all this, is ence lthan that it is a Saint Chicago! Mary's net­Jessica Adach because ... we wor·k." will be able to
trip participant
The alumnae be there for two club of days instead of Indianapolis held a re.eep­one," she said. tion for the students Tuesday Jessica Adach also said the evening. switch from Chicago should 
Henshaw said he is uncer­have its benefits. tain whether Indianapolis "It is kind of interesting to 
go to Indianapolis instead of Chicago because I have been to Chicago a lot so it will be a different pnrspeetivn," said Adaeh. 
While Adach, a Florida native, admitted she is unliknly to rnmain in Indiana after she obtains lwr degree, she expncts thn trip to help introduce students to a side of the state many have never seen -its nco­nomic potential. Slw is also looking forward to meeting Saint Mary's graduates at work in tlw rnal world while not having to worry about spending a lot of money. 
"It should be good mneting with alumnae," she said. "I know that it will be nice to make some connections ... We don't meet too many alums around campus." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
those victims affected by his him !'or what he had donn. actions. The prayer service was part 
Gilmartnn spent time with or a series included in Death Hoss building a friendship and Penalty Awareness Week. said Hoss regarded him as a Other activities includn a spiritual advisor. Prior to March 1 speech by Madison Gilmarten's Hobley, a l'or­arrival at the jail, mnr inmate thn death row found innocent inmate had only "My heart is not of murder after spoken with f'el­14 years on
full ofhate. It is 
low inmates and death row and
full ofgrief"
guards. a keynotn 
Hoss was sched-address by !'or­uled to be execut­Melissa Broome mer governor of ed Jan. 28. Illinois George
graduate student 
Gilmarten said Hyan. newscasters and Hyan's speech policemen sur-will entail his rounded the premises. unprecedented 2003 decision 
"It was a show, it was terri­to issue a moratorium against ble," he said. state executions, which freed 
Hoss's execution has once llobley and three other death again been postponed, row inmates while commuting Gilmarten said, adding that the sentences or 163 others. the day Hoss was to be execut­The speech will be followed ed, he said to Gilmarten, by an open panel discussion "When you hug me, remem­titled "The Death Penalty in ber for 1:1 years I never Indiana." touched another person." Gilmarten said that through their relationship, Hoss Contact Jen Rowling at learned that God had forgiven jrowling@nd.edu 
PVS case causes a dispute 
judge, father argue over IV removaI 
Associated Press 

TAMPA, Fla. -Bnl'orn slw was thn severely brain-dam­aged patient at thn ennll~r of a legal disputn over wlwthnr slw should live or din, Terri Schiavo was a young woman who desperately wanted to bn thin. 
At 26, she was strikingly beautiful with dnlieatn fea­tures. But shn had spnnt hnr childhood and high school yoars as a ehubby and shy girl, standing just 5-foot-3 and weighing 200 pounds at lwr heaviest. 
Whnn shn l'inally lost (,5 pounds in lwr latn tnnns, mnn started to pay attention ­induding the man who would beeonw hnr husband. MiehaPI Schiavo, who was tall and handsonw. 
But keeping tlw wnight ofT was a struggle for T1~rri Sehiavo, and ynars latnr ­af'tnr her !wart stoppnd briPfly. cutting ofT oxygnn to thn brain -a malpractice easn brought against a doctor on her behalf would revoal she had btH~n trying to survive on liquids and was making hnrsnlf throw up aftnr meals. The Sehiavos' lawyer said her 1990 eollapso was caused by a potassium imbalance brought on by an eating disorder. 
It is a eruel twist lost on no one closn to tho ease: !\ woman who is said to have struggled with an eating disor­der is now in the middle or a court battle over whntlwr hnr fending tubo should bn romoved so that she can starve to dnath. 
(iary Fox, a lawyPr who rnp­rosentnd Terri and Miehanl Schiavo in thn malpraetie1~ case, said the disnasn is thn "lost lesson" in thn Schiavo easn. 
"While thnrn is no eurn for 

Penalty 
continued from page l 
not want tho murdnror to din at thn limn. I lownw~r. she said slw undnrstood when hnr nrotlwr told lwr slw was too young to grasp the situation. 
As Broonw agnd. slw rnal­iznd hnr fatlwr's murdnrnr had lwconw nameless and 
"I know what lifn is and I know it is not in my power to dmnand it be taken away," she said. 
Broome said the murder of her father is not made any easier by the fact another man will din. She does not want the son of thH murderer to f'enl her grilil', and said she felt the execution of an incli­vidual affects innocent vic­tims. Broome also said the 
execution of' her father's murder­"/ know what life is er could never and I know it is not 1111 the void left 
in her life. 

in my power to "My heart is demand it be taken not full of hate," she said. "It is
away. 
full of grief." Father John Melissa Broome Gilmarten, who 
graduate student came to Notre Dame this week to share his 
"Thnrn is a man in prison in experiences with the death 1..!\. who took my childhood penalty, reflected on his onn aftnrnoon," Broome said. friendship with death row 
This hnlinf, however, dons prisoner Michael Hoss. Hoss not ehangn her strong opposi­requested the death penalty tion to tlw death penalty. hoping it would bring peace to 
Want to write news? Call Claire at 1-5323. 

~DE BARTOLO 
~ PERfORMING ARTS CENTER 
TOLERANCE
SPRING 
~tJNJV£RSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME
ARTSjest RECONCILIATION 
TWO WEEKS OF MUSIC, FILM, THEATRE, AND DISCUSSION THE NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
THE LARAMIE PROJEO DEAD MAN WALKING BY MOISES KAUFMAN BY TIM ROBBINS DIRECTED BY ANTON JUAN DIRECTED BY SIIRI SCOTI AND JAY SKHTOH DEClO MAINSTAGE THEATRE PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE 
FEBRUARY 22-MARCH 3 fEBRUARY 26-MARCH 2 TICKETS $12, $10 FACUlTY/STAFF, $10 SENIORS, SB All STUDENTS TICKETS S12, Sl 0FACUlTY/STAff, Sl 0SENIORS, S8 All STUDENTS The1998 m11der of Matthew Shepard hm become on icoo of intrleronce. This fosdnating and pawerftA ~ov explores the relotionship between o k1 resptxlse to the btutol event The lotomie Pro;«ttoptures the turbulent condemned yOUilg convict ood the nun who cooosels him in !he doys leading 
umoti~J~s of the residents of loronlit~, Wyooling, hOUilted by the reality up to his exe<olioo for urope ond btutol dooble mutdm. that <ollectively they hod roisoo the sons who coold show sud! hote. It is 
··Jtti ·. .. .. .... . .. ·sa~cof.tlRNs m5EMts'~;:m(·Y.:~
astory of of !J!eot sodn6SS, greot bellllty und, peritops most importantly, 
MTH£ CAPITAL )UDIOAL PRO<£SS: ' ' .
~Jeot rev~otir:rtS. 

ASYSTEM Of JUSTIQ AND R£CONCIUATION?* KeynotB Address by former Govet!IOI' George H. Ryan of Illinois Moodo~ f•. 28, 6;30 p.m., Dedo Moitts1oge Theabe 
FOR nCKETS CALL THE nCKET OFFICE AT 574.631.2800 VISIT HTIP://PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU/ARTSFEST.SHTMl 
bulimia, thoro wnrn things that could and should have been done f'or her that would have controlled it," lw said in a rncont interview. 
Terri Schiavo. 41, is now loeked in what some dof'tors say is a l'ersistnn t Vegetative State (I'VS), with no hope of' recovery. In onn of' tlw nation's longest right-to-die disputns. her husband is fighting with her parnnts to havn the f'nnd­ing tubn rnmovnd; a court order preventing its rnmoval oxpires at 5 p.m. Friday. 
Like almost evnry nlnnwnt in thn ease, whnthnr Schiavo really was bulimie is in dis­pute. ller father. Holwrt Sehindler, said hn dons not believe his daughtnr had an nating disordnr and thinks lwr husband had sonwthing to do with her coli apsP. Miel11w I Schiavo has dnnind hurting his wifn. 
During thn malpradien eusn, at loast one of Schiavo's friends testifiml thny know slw was bulimie becausn af'tnr meals out, shn always imnwdi­ately excused lwrsPif' to go to the bathroom. llnr husband also knew she had pneuliar eating patterns but did not realize they were dangerous. Fox said. 

page I 0 

THE OBSERVER 
1~0-Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Mart Lozar 
MANAGING EDilOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegardcn SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nel~on SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsncws.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(57 4) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Obsert'er policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob~cT (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccp1 during exam ilnd l'aation periods. A subscripuon 10 Tiu~ Ob~rvtt i~ $100 for one o1cadcmic yeiU'; $55 tOr oru: sem<Ster. 
11tc Obscrvct hr published ,u: POSTMASTER 

024 Smuh Dining f f<lll Sc!lld ilddress romctiorw w: 
Nom: Damc:1 JN 46556-0n9 · The Ob.>terver 
Pcriodkal po~tagc paid at None D01mc P.O. Box 779 

and addi1ional mailing offite~. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norte Dame. IN 46556-0779 
Tiu: Oh...:rvcr is a. member of tht' A'>MJt::iatc:d Preu. All rc:productinn right!i an: 
re~ctv~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Nicole Zook Matt Puglisi Mary Kate Mike Gilloon 
Malone Matt Lozar Peter Leahy Scene Viewpoint Maria Smith Alyssa Illustrator Brauweiler Graham Ebetsch Graphics Graham Ebetsch 
Tl..IE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
Friday, February 25, 2005 
Basketball celebrates 100 years 
When fans think of Notre Dame athletics, they think foot­the court and yell 29-1 prior to the upset of No. 1 San ball and national championships, Ileisman Trophies and leg­Francisco? endary games. And that's just the tip of the iceberg. 
But when fans think of Notre Dame basketball, a moment Notre Dame basketball is about more than Digger Phelps, here and there along with a couple of coaches and players Mike Brey, Austin Carr and Chris Thomas. come to mind. It's about Notre Dame being the only school with three 
This weekend's celebration of the 100th anniversary of three-time consensus All-Americans -all happening in the men's basketball at Notn Dame presents a per­1930s. fect opportunity to change that. OJhe It's about Ncitre Dame handing four separate 
Unlike the much-repeated legendary history teams their first loss after those squads had of the Notre Dame football program, the knowl­won 20 or more games to begin their seasons edge of the men's basketball program usually -more than any other school.
FJl!orial
goes unsaid, except for the banners hanging from the rafters of the Joyce Center. 
Yes, the sight of UCLA in South Bend on Sunday will bring back memories of the Irish ending the Bruins' 88-game win­ning streak in 1974 -a memory even casual Notre Dame basketball fans can recall. 
But how many people knew the Irish were the last team to beat the Bruins before that streak started? 
The much-repeated chants of 20-1 in the Feb. 8 upset of previously undefeated Boston College made national head­lines. 
But how many people knew the chants originally occurred in 1977 when Digger Phelps urged the student body to line Few people know about the illustrious history 
of Notre Dame basketball because Brey has just brought the program back on the map. The 1990s were a dark era after 20 successful seasons under Phelps -when making the NCAA tournament became expected and not a cause for celebration. 
This weekend, welcome back the former players returning to the Joyce Center as the Irish continue their trek to March Madness. 
Then after you hear their names, records and accomplish­ments, go out and pick up one of the well-written books recently composed about Notre Dame basketball. 
You'll be surprised at what you find. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

I was intrigued to see that Wednesday World Trade Center structural engineer Leslie Robertson spoke on campm; and briefly addressed the World Trade Center collapses. However, I was extremely disappointed to find yet another vague and confusing explanation from him regarding the collapses. This comes on the heels of news that only nearly half of the Sept. 11 victims' remains have been identified due to insufficient DNA evidence. 
There is a growing concern among the general population that the explanation of what happened to the towers on Sept. 11 is glaringly insufficient. The shock of images of the towers collaps­ing is f:,>Tadually being replaced by skepticism about how this event could have happened. For example, how could lire pro­duced by jet fuel inside of the planes get hot enough to melt the steel inside the towers? Kevin Ryan, a site manager for a division of Underwriters Laboratories (the product compliance and testing company that certified the steel used in the World Trade Centers) was recently fired for voicing his concerns that while "experts" told us that the towers collapsed due to steel melting at 2000 degrees Fahrenheit, the World Trade Center steel was ASTM E119 certified, meaning it withstood temperatures of 2000 degrees Fahrenheit for several hours in testing. Evidence sug­gests that the weak and quick-burning fires in the World Trade Center only exposed the steel to 500 degrees Fahrenheit. If you are an endorser of FEMA's "Truss Theory," take into considera­tion that the report left out the presence of cross trusses, and the fact that the tower's inner cores were not stacked but a collection of columns. The core structure of the towers is ineonsistcnt with the "zipper theory" which purports to explain the rapid demise of 
OBSERVER POLL 
Do awareness weeks really raise awareness on campus? 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 153 responses. 
the towers. Observational evidence that shows concrete {notably already turned to dust before hitting the ground) fell at the same speed as the actual building is even more disturbing, taking into account that this implies that the towers encountered an inexpli­cable absence of resistance as they collapsed straight down, along the path of most resistance. 
This brings me back to the recent news story of the unidentifi­able remains of victims. A New York City firefighter put it best when he said, "You sifi through two 11 0-story office buildings, and you don't fmd a chair, you don't lind a desk, you don't find anything." Is this consistent with a collapse brought on by the force of a plane hitting the towers? Why do we still get the story that Building Seven was leveled because of internal !ires when so many other buildings have withstood more intense fires for so long? These few small observations are really just the tip of a massive iceberg being discovered by a surprisingly large part of the population genuinely confused and genuinely angry about the lack of legitimate inquiry into what really happened on Sept. 11. There is a movement occurring that is larger than a few cheesy flash videos. What I've quickly noted above in no way represents the main or even best arguments against the ollicial explanation. I'd encourage anyone curious to check out www.911truth.org. 
Adam Fairholm 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
Feb. 24 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Darkness cannot drive out darkness ­only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate -only love can do that. " 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. civil rights activist 

-

Tt-lE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, February 25, 2005 page II 
Why Europeans doubt Bush 
It is difficult to gauge what is worse -bitter rivals or bosom buddies. Sonwtimns tho aetions of either group net identical results, almost as though they aro onn and tho samn. Sueh is the casn with tho n~la­
Gary Caruso 
tionship lwtwnen European leaders and 
Capitol ­
l'n~sident George W. 
Comments
Bush. Europn is eon­vinend that as best allins or worst nnnmies, Bush will not make serious nff'orts to ineludn thorn during his SIH:ond tnrm. 
On Monday in Brussels, a seemingly insignilkant series of small incidents spokn volunws on what type of arm's­length inclusivmwss Bush plans for 1\uropiHtns. As was usual during last yPar's Anwriean campaign appear­ances, tlw White llousn dietated the visual mnssagns plaeed on the stage hackd rops, thn visual insignias on the podiums as well as tlw stage place­mont of podiums, c·hairs and !'lags. Bush set a tone that the U.S. was the eight-hundrnd pound nlnphant in the room and had no intention of' chang­ing. 
In anotlwr effort to avoid difficult questions during tho president's so­callnd campaign town hall meetings last year, thn White House wont to the extrnnw niTort to hand-pick tho entire audinneo l'or Bush's major speeel1. It was anothnr sign that the next l'our ynars will not change mueh. Europeans loudly heard that while Bush speaks of improving relation­ships abroad, he will absolutnly not participate with those whom he most needs to engage, namely his policy opponents. 
Most importantly, though, to better control the content and message thai appeared in the United States, the White House insisted on two separate press ol'ferings during Bush's photo opportunity opposite French President Chirac -the first for foreign press, followed by a session for American reporters. To further manipulate the subliminal visual message for the American audience, the White llouse dared to alter the stage between press sessions. 
Initially, the stage held a blue and white backdrop with the words "Belgium Brussels" centered behind . two chairs. Four llags adorned the stage. Two llags sat at each side of the backdrop about two feet apart behind eaeh president so that both l'lags, one French and one American flag, appeared over the shoulder behind each president in television dose-up shots. During the first foreign press session, European broadcasts and the CNN European web site dearly showed a French flag behind Bush. 
However, at the following American session, White House staff moved the French !lag behind Bush so that it was almost totally obscured in the framed dose-up head shots broadcast in the United States The blatant reposition­ing made the French flag's white and red portions appear to be just another stripe within the American flag. Thn White House successfully portrayed "God Bless America and its freedom 
fries" back homo. 
Diplomacy is a vital element of world and American security. Yet Bush's handlers have successfully por­trayed "Old Europe" as weak and out of step. This president continues to play to the testosterone element of American society by stubbornly refus­ing to mend harsh feelings and admit that Europe has value in the world. What harm would it have been for our president to proudly display a French and American l'lag behind him as a visual reassurance to the world that he truly does want harmony with our traditional allies? 
While most Americans accept Bush's three changing nxeuses for invading Iraq -"weapons of mass destruc­tion," "better to l'ight there than here" and "Saddam was bad and Iraq is bet­ter off now" -Europeans do not hold the same Texas definition of diploma­cy. They wonder why, for example, the United States does not simply invade Cuba, just 90 miles from our coast, because "Castro is bad and Cuba would be better off." 
Europeans know that Americans give their president a pass because of the World Trade Center attacks, yet French papers proelaimed that they were all Americans as well after the attack. They are upset that this week's visit exuded a tone that Europe should get over it, that Bush would do it again without them again if he so desires. Diplomacy Texas style is root­ed in the 2000 Amnrican eleetion. 
Like it or not, Bush took his 5:17-votn win in Florida as a mandate to govnrn without looking back. While sonw say the margin was only one vote, cour­tesy of the Supreme Court, the l'aet remains that Bush's handlers havn charged forward as though they had a Nixon or Heagan landslide. Although Bush barely garnnred 52 percent of the vote in 2004 with only one morn state in his win column, his handlnrs march at thoir usual znal. 
It is ironic that most of Bush's agen­da may not have succeeded if' not for our sense of' fear and rnvenge emanat­ing from the attacks of Sept. 11. Americans have given Bush a blank cheek to fight terror, even in a benign Iraq over radical Iran or Syria. Europeans know that despite Bush's claim that dil'f'ernneos regarding Iraq should be left in the past, they know Bush will proceed with or without them. That is the type of' diplomacy Europe may cope with for now, but will continue to doubt. 
Gary Caruso. Notre Dame 73, served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. /lis column appears every other Friday. lie can be contact­ed at hottline@aol. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obserl'er. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Darfur a call to action 
Aftnr attending the Darfur symposium on Wednesday I was appalled by the atroei­tins that are being committed on a daily basis in Sudan. But what really angered me was tlw continued inaction on the part of the United States and the rest of the inter­national community on this issue. President Bush spoke in his Inaugural Address about spnHtding frnedom and liberty throughout the world. 
If ever there was a time to give these words some concrete meaning, the time is now. The pnople of Darfur are becoming the victims of a systematic campaign of dis­plaennwnt, rape and murder by the Janjaweed militias that are supported by the Sudanese government. President Bush should be praised for labeling the atrocities in the Sudan as genocide, but because we refuse to act to put any kind of force bnhind our rhetoric, the genocide continues. 
i\s a rnsult of the continued inaction on the part of our government and the inter­national community, we arn allowing 10,000 Darfurians to be killfld on a monthly basis. In this day and age after we have witnessed the horrors of Armenia, the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Holocaust and Rwanda, atrocities like this should be unacceptable. Despitn the hor­rific events that have already occurred, there is still an opportunity for Amerkans to raise ourselves to the challenge and bring a peaceful settlement to the situation in the Sudan. 
We must all speak out as Americans, as Catholics, as supporters of f'nledom and justice, as Republicans and as Democrats, as people of good will; we must speak with one voice and demand aetion on behalf of the Da.rfurians who are in dire need of our assistance. 
Andrew Sullivan 
sophomore 
Alumni Hall Feb. 24 


WE MEND FENCES
"GRAB A 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Friday, February 25, 2005 

~· 
.. ····t~
7h


The 2005 Oscar race has been one of the closest in recent history. At first it seemed 'The Aviator" was the clear front-runner. Since then, the tables have turned somewhat, as the dark horse candidate "Million Dollar Baby" has started to overpower the Miramax machine. I've gone back and forth several times in several cat-Brian Doxtader 
egories despite going 37 for 39 ________ last year, where nearly all of the Scene Columnist 
winners were foregone conclu­sions. Expect this to be one of the most exciting and hotly debated Academy Awards in recent history Best Picture 
What will win: "The Aviator" 

Why it will win: Martin Scorsese's grand biopie of mogul Howard Hughes may not be the obvious fron­trunner, but it will still likely win the Oscar for a vari­ety of reasons. It won the Best Picture (Drama) Golden Globe and leads the Oscar pack with 11 nominations, which is often a good sign. No Scorsese film has ever been named Best Picture (this includes such past revered nominees as "Taxi Driver" and "Raging Bull"), so the Academy will take that into consideration. Finally, it has the overpowering Miramax machine 
behind it, which is both a good thing and a bad thing, since it tends to smother Academy voters. It's possi­ble that "Million Dollar Baby" will overcome its dark horse status and win over Oscar voters, but the last time that a true dark horse won was back in 1981, when the Oscar went to "Chariots of Fire." As for "Sideways," it's started to fall out of favor, with A.O. Scott from The New York Times declaring it the most overrated film of the year. 
What should win: "Million Dollar Baby" 
Why it should win: This was a really, really difticult call. On one hand, three of the five best picture nomi­nees are phenomenal films ("Million Dollar Baby," "Sideways," 'The Aviator"). On the other, none are quite so affecting and emo­tionally charged as "Million Dollar Baby." Eastwood has crafted a remarkable film that is nearly on par with his previous Best Picture winner, "Unforgiven." This 
is probably the best picture of the nominees. 
Best Director Who will win: Clint Eastwood ("Million Dollar Baby") Why he will win: In 1976, Martin Scorsese failed to 
receive a nomination for 'Taxi Driver," his first Best Picture nominee. The Oscar that year went to John G. Avildsen, who won for "Rocky," written by first-time actor-turned-writer Sylvester Stallone. In 1980, Martin Seorsese received a nomination for "Raging Bull" and lost to first-time actor-turned-director Robert Redford for "Ordinary People." In 1990, Martin Scorsese received a nomination for "Goodfellas" and lost to first-time actor-turned-director Kevin Costner for "Dances with Wolves." It would only be fitting if Scorsese loses this year to actor-turned-director Clint Eastwood (who has previously won the directing award for "Unforgiven"). This is not to detract from the considerable talents of Eastwood, who directed "Million Dollar Baby" with a rare power and under­statement almost completely missing in contemporary Hollywood. Besides which, the Academy tends to favor directors who work well with actors, and Eastwood evoked powerful performances from not only Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman, but also delivered remarkably himself. 
Who should win: Martin Scorsese ("The Aviator") 
Why he should win: No Scorsese film has ever won the Best Picture Oscar. This includes such venerable American classics as 'Taxi Driver," "Raging Bull" and "Goodfellas," all of which lost to inferior films. The director has proven his mettle time and time again and continues to make solid movies to this day, even after his film school brat contemporaries (Lucas, Coppola, DePalma) have dipped into substandard film­making. This could and should be his year, and the Academy may try to reconcile retrospective injustice by awarding Scorsese the long-deserved Best Director award. Although his work on 'The Aviator" is slightly more craftsman-like than in previous films, he remains a technical master and manages to bring an indelibility to "The Aviator," as he has with nearly all of his previous work. Best Actor 



Who will win: Jamie Foxx ("Ray") 
Why he will win: If there is one thing the Academy loves more than actors playing real-life historical fig­ures, it's actors playing characters with disabilities. Jamie Foxx has the best of both worlds here -not only does he play Ray Charles impeccably (down to the iate great singer's quirks and blindness), but he also inhabits that Oscar-loved category of the comedic actor breaking into serious roles (Tom Hanks in "Philadelphia," Robin Williams in "Good Will Hunting"). Beyond even that, Foxx has been nominat­ed in both the Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor award for two different roles (only the second actor to ever do so, after /\1 Pacino's 1992 double-nomination for "Scent of a Woman" and "Glengarry Glen Ross," respectively). Additionally, the surprise nomination of Ray in the Best Picture category will help bring more attention to Foxx's performance. This race is all but over. 
Who should win: Leonardo DiCaprio ("The Aviator") 
Why he should win: This was a surprise nomina­tion, but a welcome one. DiCaprio doesn't look a thing like Howard Hughes, but he, like Jamie Foxx, gets to play a real-life figure with a disability. DiCaprio wisely concentrates on thn roguish freewheeling spirit that made Hughes sueh a fascinating person. lie is also a good actor, which he has proven in a variety of roles, from "What's Eating Gilbert Grape?" (for which he received a nomination) to "Catch Me If You Can." lie may have finally overcome his "pretty boy" status, as Johnny Depp and Brad Pitt had to do, by carefully choosing roles. His performance in "The Aviator" finally solidifies the arrival of a new DiCaprio ­DiCaprio the actor rather than DiCaprio the teen idol. While he will likely eventually win an award (as Johnny Depp will no doubt eventually win), it may come too late, as that notorious sympathy award rewarding actors for superior previous work (AI Pacino for "Scent of a Woman," Paul Newman for 'The Color of Money," John Wayne for "True Grit"). Instead of going through all that trouble later, why not give him the award now, when he truly deserves it? Best Actress 
Who will win: Hilary Swank ("Million Dollar Baby") 
Why she will win: Swank returns five years after her first Oscar win (for "Boys Don't Cry') with a true knockout performance. If there's one thing that Eastwood knows how to do, it's direct actors. Gene Hackman won the Oscar for "Unforgiven," Tim Robbins and Sean Penn both won Oscars for "Mystic River." But it's Swank herself who modulates her per­formance into one that is multi-layered and surprising -demonstrating a dramatic mettle the Academy will certainly notice. Plus, there is a certain irony here ­the last time she was nominated was five years ago, when she beat Annette Bening (for American Beauty) in a two-horse race. Bening received a nomination this year for Being Julia, her first nomination since American Beauty. 
Who should win: Kate Winslet (Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind) 
Why she should win: Eternal Sunshine may be the most woefully under-appreciated film of the year, but the Academy wasn't foolish enough to bypass Winslet's pitch-perfect performance. In the nine years since her first nomination (for Ang Lee's Sense and Sensibility), she has consistently proven her dramatic worth. That being said, this is hands-down her best performance. Winslet inhabits Clementine beautifully, balancing quirkiness with sensitivity and a touch of graceful pathos. While she likely won't win this year, it really is a shame, because her portrayal may be the most memorable performance of the year. Best Supporting Actor 
Who will win: Thomas Haden Church (Sideways) 
Why he will win: This is a really tough field to call. All of these actors gave solid performances and no sin­gle actor sticks out. That being said, Giamatti's Best 
TtiE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, February 25, 2005 
page 13 

etor snub may be rectifiod by a win for Chureh 
nspitn the litd that tlw duo's eharaders arn so dosnly 
nknd. Tho i\cadnmy may not take that into consider­
lion, to tlw point that it rewals a notieoable imbal­
rwn -Church may win while Giamatti fails to even 
nt. nominatnd. 
Who should win: Morgan Frneman (Million Dollar 
a by) 
Why he should win: Freeman hasn't won yet, 
espite nods for Driving Miss Daisy and The 
hawshank Hnclmnplion. lin is still one of the most 
Pspm:tahln and eonsistont actors in llollywood, so an 
)scar is wtdl dt~st~rvnd. This may not be Fmeman's 
nst pnrformanc:n (that honor still likely goes to 
'hawshank), hut it eonws prntty dose, so a win would 
arru~r no 1:omplaints. No otlwr actor truly stands out 
1 this linld as morn desnrving than Freeman (other 
han C:hurd1, who will likPiy win): Clive Ownn is still 
oung (although his limn will eonw), Jamie Foxx will 
ikPly not win two Os1:ars in the samt~ year and Alan 
Ida's nomination was a surprisn, whieh makes a win 
or him extn•nwly unlikely. Frnnnutn desnrves tlw 
nulemy /\ward this year and 1:ould quite possibly win 

l. It is a prntty nvnn nu:e hntwerm Church and 
•n~nman. 
est Supporting Actress 
Who will win: Virginia Madson (Sideways) 
Why slw will win: i\t f'irst it SIHlmod as if Calc 
Jlandwtt was tlw obvious frontrunnnr in this field, 
1111. sincP tlwn. Virginia Marlsl'n has mnnrgnd as tho 
·avorit.P. I lor wonderfully rharismatic pnrfimnancn in 

'idnways is most notable for a wonclnrful mid-film 
nonologun that. may bn oru• of tho most nwmorablo in 
IWPIIt history. It's a good possibility that Madson will 
in. hut it is a dose finld. Don't expnet surprisn nomi­
wn Natalie Portman to win, hownvnr, for a variety of 
·pasons. Not only is slw still vnry young, but tho 
nulmny probably still has painful nwmories of Star 
ars: J·:pisode II (which would stave oil' tlw potnntial 
'lllharrassnwnt of awarding hnr now and then wit.­
lnssing an Pqually wooden pnrf'ormaneo in tlw 
1p1·.oming Star Wars: J·:pisodn Ill, dun in May). 
Who should win: Catn Blandwtt (Tho i\viator) 
Why slw should win: llnro's somn irony. Catn 
Hanrhnll (:ould win lwr lirst Oscar for playing tho 
nost-nominatPd and winningnst actress of all limn. Blandwtt ntldws tlw dntails of' Katharine llepburn's diosyncrasil's, and lwr grnatt~sl triumph is her uncan­ny mimPsis of' tlw late groat adrnss's vocal inflnetions, rwatly eovnring up tlw fad that thny don't look very llllH'.h alike. Shn brings dnpth to tlw rolo and earries lwr s1:nnns with magrwtic aplomb (nearly stealing the lilm away from DiCaprio). With lwr second nomination and l.lm~n across-llw-hoard nxcnllent pnrformanens this y1mr f.lim .larmusrh's Cofliw and Cigarettes, Wos i\ndnrson's The Life /\quatie with Steve Zissou, and Martin Scorsnso's Thn i\viator), Blanchett has proven lwr versatility and screen presence. Then1 were some vnry good porf'ormanccs this year, but the award should go to Blanchntt, not only for The i\viator, but fi•r tho other films shn made in 2004. 
Best Original Screenplay 
Who will win: .John Logan (The i\viator) 
Why he will win: Despite the controversy surround­ing l.ogan and his supposed re-appropriation of' other sources, hn will likely still emerge with the Oscar hm:ausn of Th1~ /\via tor's overall strength as a film. I lis s1:ript is balanced, though thn dialogue is surprisingly loss nwmorabln than in other Scorsnsn films. Despitn this (:avnat, Tlw i\viator still has a strong screenplay, even if it isn'tas strong as other aspects of' the film. 
Who should win: Charlie Kaufman, Miehnl Gondry, and Pinrrn Bismuth 0\tnrnal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind) 
Why they should win: This is tho best screenplay of' tho ynar -it is witty, funny, sad, romantic and emo­tional without bning overly sentimental. The screen­play is a truo triumph in ingenuity and the sort of postmodern romancn story that tnnds to polarizn its audioneo. The best scroenplay award has somehow oludod Kaufman. whose previous work (Being John Malkovkh, i\daptation) was some of the best, most dnvnr stuff written since Pulp Fiction. While this sneenplay enrtainly has a chance of winning, i\1:admny votors first have to overlook Tho i\viator as wt~ll as Htnrnal Sunshine's own gnneral quirkiness. This is a w~nuine, beautifully written sercnnplay. Best Adapted Screenplay 
Who will win: Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor (Sidowaysl 
Why they will win: One of the best-reviewed films of the ymtr succeeded on two main elnments: thn per­formances and the script. Payne's road-trip/buddy­movie transcends its origins preeisely because tho script is so well written. The Aeademy will not over­look this film, especially if it fails to win the Best Picture -the Bnst Screonplay award will be some­thing of a runner-up prize for Sideways. 
Who should win: Rkhard Linklater, Ethan Hawke, Julie Dolpy and Kim Krizan (Before Sunset) 
Why they should win: This is a bnautif'ully written film (by the diroetor and the two stars from charaeters croatnd by Linklater and Kim Krizan) and one of the best screenplays of the year. As a philosophically tinged examination of' love and relationships, Bnfore Sunset is the kind of sensitively written, minimalist film that draws the viewer into the lives of' its charac­tnrs. Thn dialogue flows easily betwoen the two ehar­aeters as a kind of naturalistie duet that forms a framework into whieh tho bigger themes of the film are woven. It is likely it won't boat Sideways, but it probably dnserves to -Linklator, Hawke and Delpy havo written a wondorful script. 
Oscar Oversights 

It was innvitablo that thoro would bo some oversight in tho nominations, as happnns every year. This yoar's nominations are even more glaring than usual, as entirn films were completely (or nnarly eompletely) ovnr­looknd. Some notable sins of omission: 
+Eternal Sunshine of tho Spotloss Mind was over­looked in sovcral cate­gories, including Bnst Pieture. Best Dirnetor (Miehnl Gondry) and Best i\etor (Jim Carrny, who still has never r·nenived an Oscar nomination). 
+The Passion of the Christ and Farenheit 9/11, both strongly ideological and controversial films, rncnivnd no major nomina­tions. Michael Moore's lob­bying for a Best Picture nomination (and thus sacri­ficing Best. Documentary eligibility) baekfin~d. while Mel Gibson's general disin­terest in the Oscars (he's already won Best Picture and Best Director for Braveheart) and llollywood's nogative recep­tion to the lilm likely hurt its chances. 
+Paul Giamatti, once thought to be a possible frontrunner in the Best i\ctor raeo, was not even nominated for Sideways. 
+Julie Delpy was woel'ully overlooked for her per­formance in Before Sunset. 
+The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou, Wes Anderson's quirky film starring Bill Murray, failed to receive any nominations. 
+The Motorcyele Diaries did not receive a Best Foreign Language Film nomination. +Mark Wahlberg. was overlooked f'or his quirky role in I Heart lluckabecs. 
+Zach Brall"s debut Garden State (whieh he wrote, directed and starred in) received no nominations. The most notable oversight was in the Best Original Scrnenplay eategory. 
+Liam Neeson was not nominated for Kinsey. +.Jude Law rnceived no nominations, despite acting in six films this year. 
+Kill Bill Volume 2 received no nominations, possi­bly duo to the confusion over the film's split into two parts, one released in 2003 and one released in early 2004. This film had potential to be nominated in sev­eral categories, induding Best Picture, Best Director (Quentin Tarantino), Best Actress (Uma Thurman), Bnst i\ctor (David Carradine) and Best Original Screenplay (Quentin Tarantino). 
The cliews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Brian Doxtader. at bdoxtade@nd.edu. 



-
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 25, 2005 
MLB 

Chicago's Iguchi adjusting to the major leagues 
Associated Press 

TUCSON, Ariz. -Tadahito Iguchi's body clock is a bit out of whack, so when he hit a home run on his second day of spring training, it was a rather remark­able accomplishment. 
Yeah, sure it was just batting practice, but he's still trying to shake off jet lag after arriving at the Chicago White Sox spring camp two days ago. 
"Not bad for 3 o'clock in the morning," White Sox general manager Ken Williams said Thursday. 
"Yesterday was a little strange. l didn't sleep well," Iguchi said through an inter­preter. 
Iguchi's homer off veteran reliever Cliff Politte will surely be big news back home where there is a 15-hour time differ­ence. 
!lis every move is being moni­tored by about two dozen Japanese journalists and cam­eramen. Every ground ball he tields in practice is charted. He has his own news conference in a yard next to the complex. 
His presence caused a much bigger stir than a year when ago when Japanese saves leader Shingo Takatsu joined the White Sox. 
Iguchi, signed to play second base, will make $2.3 million this year and $2.4 million in 2006. Chicago has a $3.25 million option for 2007 with a $250,000 buyout. 
Now he's working to adjust to just about everything. He had visited the United States about 10 times previously, including a trip to the 1996 Olympics where Japan won the silver medal in baseball. 
"Coming straight to the big leagues from Japan is different. I grew up in this game and went through every level," White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen said. 
"Today it is tougher. I don't think it's because of the lan­guage and the culture, but because they are in the spotlight right away," he said. "When you come from Japan and come straight to the big league level, you have something to prove. l think Shingo last year did a tremendous job and I'm expect­ing the same with Iguchi." 
Iguchi, 30, batted .333 with 24 homers and 89 RBls last season. He's won two stolen base titles, three Gold Glove awards and been an All-Star four times. 
In his eight-year Japanese career with the Fukuoka Daiei Hawks, Iguchi hit 149 homers and stole 159 bases to go with a .271 average. 
"Fortunate," he said of his homer off Politte. "Not really surprising, but I'm not a home run hitter. I just need to get hits." 
Takatsu struggled in spring training a year ago (6.75 ERA) but finally got untracked and then took the closer's job in mid­June. 
He was 6-4 with a 2.31 EHA in 19 saves and became such a popular figure at U.S. Cellular Field that the White Sox started playing a gong over the public address system when he was called into a game. 
Iguchi, expected to dislodge Willie Harris at second base, noted that major league pitching seems to have more movement than he's used to. 

MLB 

Palmeiro may sue Canseco for steroid use accusations 
Associated Press 

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. ­The Baltimore Orioles' Rafael Palmeiro is leaving open the pos­sibility of filing a lawsuit against Jose Canseco, who said he intro­duced the first baseman to steroids in 1992 when both play­ers were with the Texas Hangers. 
Canseco cited Palmeiro as a steroid user in his new book. In an interview on the CBS television show "60 Minutes," Canseco said he injected the drug into Palmeiro. 
Palmeiro issued a statement last month in which he denied he ever used steroids, and he emphatically backed up that assertion Thursday after his first practice of spring training. Palmeiro also said he's consid­ered hiring the law frrm of Orioles owner Peter Angelos to take legal action against Canseco. 
"The one thing I can say is I have the best law firm and the best lawyer standing in the wings in Peter Angelos," he said. "I have options available for me. He stands behind me and he's ready. I will look at all my options and I'll decide." 
Palmeiro, 40, ranks among the greatest hitters in baseball histo­ry. The four-time All-Star has 551 career homers, 2,922 hits and a .289 batting average. 
He would prefer to focus on preparing for his 20th big league season, but the topic kept swing­ing back to steroids during an impromptu interview session in the Baltimore dugout at Fort Lauderdale Stadium. 
"I can't worry about those things. Along the way, there's always going to be someone say­ing something about you, whether it's true or not. You just go on," Palmeiro said. "My job right now is to get ready for baseball. My mind has to be here." 
Orioles manager Lee Mazzilli told Palmeiro that he has the full support of the team. 
"It's totally unfair because it's always hearsay," Mazzilli said. "I think in this country you're inno­cent until proven guilty. They don't have to defend themselves. If you feel good about yourself, you shouldn't worry about what people say." 
Palmeiro is at a loss in trying to fibrure out why Canseco chose to include him as one of several players that used steroids. 
"He and I grew up playing ball together in the Miami area, but we never did anything together other than play on the same team," Palmeiro said. "We went our separate ways after high school and I never saw him again until he was in the big leagues and I was in the minors. He and I have never been close friends or anything. We were teammates, but that's about it." 

AP 
Oriole Rafael Palmeiro plays catch during spring training. The Baltimore slugger is considering suing Jose Canseco. 
-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
19237 Cleveland 7 bdrm -52950 Marks 5 bdrm -202 E. Cripe 4 bdrm 
-222 E. Willow 3 bdrm.2773097 
FoR RENT 

COLLEGE PARK Now is the time to reserve your CONDOMINIUMS AVAILABLE house for 06-07. Call 233-9947 or FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR. go to TWO BEDROOM, TWO BATHS. www.andersonndrentals.com 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic Year. Available June 1, 2005. Two(2) Bedrooms-2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System, Fully Furnished. Call 626-441-1275 or Salvaty @ earthlink.net 
HURRY 235-7234 

FOR MORE DETAIL Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 DOMUS PROPERTIES bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask NOW LEASING 
FIGHT AIDS IN AFRICA 

14 months volunteer program. WANTED FoR SALE Education, Prevention and 
FOUND: 

Little brown leather purse/wallet 
w/picture of 3 children 
and a rosary 

near new post office 
and fire department. 
Call Karen 631-6574. 
Community mobilization! Oakhill corner unit w/detached Fees apply/scholarships available garage. Avail.for sale in May. through volunteering Interested call: 271-9739 before program start. 
Start: September 2005. OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. Email: Line@locallink.net 4 rm, 2 bath. For details (269) 591-0518 fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. www.iicgmi.org 
Great 6·7 bdrm home about FREE student rent program. FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL available 6/1/05. Blue & Gold Homes YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT Local alumnus Save your grant money & buy a Hail to the chief ... thanks for an Also very nice 3-bdrm (574)250-7653. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES looking for refurbished DELL computer. amazing year, Matt. We'll miss you-available NOW. NEAR CAMPUS. experienced babysitter. $100&u~.229-3333 -now go and enjoy having your life Both Close to ND, W/D, on-site 2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING 2·5·7·8 BEDROOM HOUSES. Call360-1617. back! parking. ND !Internet Canopy DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, access. Call Joe Crimr:nins 708 S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, SHORT-TERM NANNY NEEDED PERSONAL Here goes ... 574-229-3659 CALL 532-1408 DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF from 3/28, 29, 30 and 4/5-4/8, 
MMMRENTALS.COM ON CALL ALSO LEASING FOR 7a.m.to 5:30p.m. Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Heart vs. Logic 2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. 1-THE 2006-2007 SCHOOL YEAR -Granger. 2 kids, ages 4 and 7. Days $299! Includes Meals, Of course, logic always wins in the car garage,close to ND.$650/mo. 6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 2-3-4-5-6-7-8-10 BEDROOMS. One person all day Celebrity Parties! Panama City, end Call317-815-1329. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. or split part time. Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, 
1950 PER MONTH+ DEP. VISIT OUR WEBSITE Non-smoker, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award We played flip cup where? Room in nice house. STAFF AND FACULTY ONLY. WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM willing to transport kids a must. Winning Company! Spa,gym,tanning & more. CALL BRUCE OR CONTACT: KRAMER Contact Jen SpringBreakTravel.com Hettler can scrape the banana off $475/mo. 229-3333 876-3537. 574-234·2436 OR 574-315-5032. 674-9876. 1-800-678-6386 the back of my shirt tomorrow 
Friday, February 25, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Evening Concerts 

FREE lor students ----Generol Admission: $3 for 1oiuht $5 for.bolh ..._,-"'_--~.·~··-..""1 Tickets on sole ot Lafortune Box Office 
-
Friday, February 25, 2005 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Anderson leads Michigan St. past Wisconsin 
Associated Press 

EAST LANSING. Mich.-Alan Anderson got choked up -and it had nothing to do with earn­ing a spot in Michigan State's record books. 
Anderson didn't miss and scored a career-high 28 to lead the 1Oth-ranked Spartans to a 77-64 win over No. 20 Wisconsin on Thursday. 
He was 10-of-1 0 from the field and 7 -of-7 from the line, becoming the fourth Michigan State player to take at least 10 shots without missing. 
But the senior forward paused and stammered as he spoke after the game because the Spartans snapped a 12­game losing streak against ranked opponents and a six­game skid against Wisconsin. 
"It was our last chance against those guys," Anderson said. "This one was big, man. They took our home-winning streak from us. They took a couple of championships, too. That's why we were so emotion-
a.!" 

The Spartans (20-4, 11-2 Big Ten) have won 10 of 11 since losing to the Badgers on Jan. 16, winning their last nine by double digits. 
Those lopsided victories didn't quiet their critics because of the streak against ranked oppo­nents since the regional finals of the 2003 NCAA tournament. 
"I don't think I could be hap­pier for our players," Michigan State coach Tom lzzo said. "This has been hard o,n them. It wasn't like they conquered the world, but we beat a good team soundly." 
Wisconsin's Alando Tucker had 18 points, Mike Wilkinson scored 16 points and reserve Zach Morley added 11. 
The Badgers (17 -7, 8-5) have lost three of five, allowing Indiana to pull into a 
third-place tie in "/ don't think I comfortable." the Big Ten stand­Marquette (18-9, 
could be happier
ings. 6-8) had trouble
for our players."
"We don't like to finding shots with-say tl happens at out Diener run­Wisconsin, but Tom lzzo ning the show. they outworked Cincinnati is No. 2
Spartan coach 
us," Tucker said. 

The Spartans beat Wisconsin for the first time since Feb. 27, 2001 -thanks to Anderson. 
Anderson, whose previous career high was 18 points, scored 11 straight points early 
--in the first half. His one-man spurt gave Michigan State an 11-point lead, which it main­tained easily. "He did a great job of pene­trating and taking care of busi­ness around the basket," Wisconsin coach Bo Ryan said. "You name it, he did it." Anderson matched a field­goal percentage mark at Michigan State with three other players. Ron Charles made all 12 of his shots in a game in 1980 while Carlton Valentine ('86) and Bob Chapman ('77) both went 11-for-11. "I don't think I missed a shot in warmups," Anderson said. "I said, 'Man, this feels good."' Paul Davis had 13 points and 11 rebounds for the Spartans while Shannon Brown and Maurice Ager each had 11. Anderson gave the Spartans a big cushion by himself a couple minutes into the game. He scored all Michigan State's points during an 11-2 run, which gave the Spartans a 15-4 
lead with 13:53 left in the first half. "He got hot early and hit all the big shots," Tucker said. 
Michigan State led by as much as 14 before halftime and didn't let the Badgers get closer than eight after Anderson's scoring barrage. Anderson scored 15 points in the first half to help Michigan State take a 33-25lead. 
It didn't take long for the Spartans to earn a comfortable lead again. Offensive rebounds led to seven of their first eight points in the second half, giving them a 41-27 lead with 17:55 left. 
"Those [offensive rebounds] reminded me a little bit of our teams in the past," Izzo said. "Those are backbreakers." The Badgers didn't pull within single digits again until there was just over a minute left. No.24 Cincinnati 80 Marquette 68 
With Marquette missing its best player, all No. 24 Cincinnati had to do was let its two formidable power forwards take over the game. 
Eric Hicks and Jason Maxiell were up to it again. 
Hicks scored 17 points and Maxiell added 14 on Thursday, leading the Bearcats to a win in Marquette's first game without leading scorer Travis Diener, lost for the season with a bro­ken hand. 
Cincinnati (21-6, 9-4 Conference USA) got up by 28 points in the second half before coasting, one of the Bearcats' worst habits. Marquette hit some late 3s, cutting the lead to seven points in the final minute against Cincinnati's reserves. 
"We get passive," coach Bob Huggins said. "We come out and play really, really hard, then get a lead and get passive. We get comfort­able, and it's hard to play this game 
in the nation in 
forcing opponents 
to miss, holding them to 36.8 percent _ exactly what Marquette shot. 
Diener, one of the nation's top point guards, led the conference in scoring (19. 7 points per game) and assists (7 per game) when he broke his hand Tuesday during practice. He had surgery and will miss the rest of his senior season. 
Steve Novak led Marquette with 25 points, going 7-of-12 from behind the 3-point arc. Sophomore guard Dameon Mason took Diener's spot in the lineup and had 17. 
Diener was upbeat and smil­ing as he walked around the court during pregame warmups, slapping hands with teammates as they stretched on the floor. Huggins spotted Diener, walked over to him, shook his hand and warmly wrapped an arm around his shoulders. 
Huggins said something that made both of them laugh, then pumped his hand again before walking away to attend to his team. 
Then, the Golden Eagles found out just how much they're going to miss Diener. 
Marquette had won three of its last five games, showing signs of stabilizing. Without Diener, the Golden Eagles looked lost on offense. They couldn't get into a flow without the school's career 3-point leader on the floor. 
"When they called plays, I know a lot of people weren't in the right spots," Hicks said. "There was confusion at times. I could tell they missed not hav­ing Diener out there." 
Coach Tom Crean called a 30­second timeout after Cincinnati surged ahead 13-4 in the open­ing minutes. Diener walked pensively around the perimeter of the huddle, and a fan in the Cincinnati student section held up a sign that read: "No Diener No Chance." 
Crean thought his team missed Diener's leadership at the outset. 
"Probably, but that's not an excuse," Crean said. "We've got to learn to deal with it. We fig­ured it out in the second half." 
Cincinnati got open 3s over Marquette's zone, packed in to try to contain Maxiell and Hicks. Nick Williams made three of his first four shots from behind the arc, putting the 
Bearcats  in  control  early.  
Williams  finished  with  16  
points.  

Freshman walk-on guard Ryan Patzwald made a three and a jumper during an eight­point spurt, and Hicks made a turnaround jumper and three­point play that put the Bearcats up 38-21 at halftime. 
Marquette had only two assists in the first half, under­scoring how much it missed Diener. 
Hicks and Maxiell scored Cincinnati's first 10 points in the second half. 

The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting notninations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known~ including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by Friday, March 4, 2005. 
Friday, February 25, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Horns, Havvks loolll on horizon 

Lauren Connelly unleashes a serve during Notre Dame's 4-3 loss to North Carolina Feb. 20 at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Tlw No. 20 Irish an1 looking lo rndnnm thmnsnlves after two hoarthn1aking lossns to No. 5 llukn and No. I) North Carolina. 
Notre Dame (4-4) nearly pullnd off n pair of upsnts last wnekend. winning tho doubles points and holding early advan­t.agos hut ultimatdy falling 4-3 to both tnams. This weekend, eoaeh .Jay Louderback hopns tlw rnsults will bn just the oppo­sitn as the Irish take on No. 13 Toxas (6-0) on Saturday and No. 57 Iowa (4-2) on Sunday. 
"Last wenknnd, we just had trouhln linishing our matehes," l.oudorbaek said. "We can't let thnrn gnt into third sots like we 
did against Duke and North Carolina. This weekend is another opportunity for us to compete against a top team." 
Texas looks to be the most challenging opponent the Irish will face this weekend. Last year, Texas defeated Notre Dame 5-2, winning two of the throe doubles matches and four of the singles ma:tehes. The team returns many of its top players, ineluding No. 80 Kendra Strohm and the No. 26 doubles duo of Katie Buckert and Strohm. 
Freshman Courtney Zauft, ranked 97th in the nation. also joined the already impressive lineup. 
This year's match looks to be equally tough. Texas remains undefeated 
this season at 6-0 with a confer­ence record of 4-0. Last week­end. Texas took on Nebraska and Oklahoma State in a double header. The Longhorns were flawless in their matches, upending both teams 7-0. 
The llawkeyes look to be a tough chore as wnll. Although Notre Dame won last year 6-1, Iowa has fortified its roster since then, boasting rankings in both singlns and doubles. llillary Mintz is ranked at No. 78 singles and also at No. 59 doubles with teammatn Meg Haeette. 
Mintz and Hacntte each played an integral role in the team's 7-0 victories over Marquette and Bowling Groen last weekend. Louderback expects tho team will be just as competitive this weekend. 
"They kind of had a slow start. but they've boon playing real well in the last few meets," Louderback said. "They're very talented just like all of the teams on our schedule. We don't really have any off meets." 
Louderback added their rigor­ous and demanding schedule is what will propel them to a strong finish towards the end of the season when they face espe­dally tough competition in the NCM championships. 
"We've already got a solid doubles team," Louderbaek said. "And now we're focusing on singles. I think the more chances our kids have compet­ing this season, the stronger our singles will beeome." 
The Irish will take the courts against Texas on Saturday at 12 
p.m. and against Iowa on Sunday at 9 a.m. 
Contact Ann Loughery at aloughery@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Fencers pointing to national meet 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 

Consider this wnnkend's event a transition t.ournanient. Notr11 Dame, who is No. 2 in tho women's poll and No. 4 in the men's, will play host to the Midwest Fencing Conf'nrenee Championships. Tho tourna­ment, though a postseason event, has no relnvanee to tho NCAA lim.Lis or regionals, the latter of which are next wonk­end. 
"It's our fi~st tryout for NCAAs. but tlw ConfernncH !tournament! is not the place to qualify," head eoaeh Janusz Bednarski said. 
With that in mind, the Irish are still approaching the event with the same goal as always -winning. 
"It's a prestigious event, and we want to be champion," Bednarski said. 
The Irish men will be led by senior epeeist Michal Sobieraj, who is still hunting for his lirst NCAA title. Sobieraj currently owns the men's single season record for wins, with 65 this year. 
"He's one of the most talent­ed fencers on our team," Bednarski said. 
The women will be led by their two defending NCAA champions, sophomore sabre Valerie Providenza and defend­ing three-time foil champion Alicja Kryczalo. Freshman Marie! Zagunis, the 2004 Olympic gold medalist, has also had a stmng snason and looks to continuo that suecnss this wnokend. 
The tournamnnt. marks Notn~ Danw's rnturn to action aftnr a two wonk layofl'. In that timn, tho tc~am has spnnt practicn time focusing on fundamentals and tndmique. 
"Wn havn rnturnnd to prae­tic.n to improvn tactical nln­ments that they lost. during t.hn bouting season," Bednarski said. 
Bodnarski was happy that his tmun got sonw time to prnparo itsnlf' for the f'inal push for a championship that begins in part this w11eknnd. 
"The two wooks wore very lwlpf'ul for us," he said, "they gave us pntdieo bef'orn rogion­als." 
Before tho off' stretch, the Irish had compnted for four eonseeutivo woPkonds in dual meeL<; where they saw at least onn top-1 0 tnam, ineluding No. 1 Ohio State in consecutive weekends. Perhaps thn most important part of this week­end's event is that they will onee again f'aen Ohio State bofore the NCAA tournament begins. 
"We have the opportunity to fence against tlw strongest team in our region before regionals," Bndnarski said. "It's the end of the season, and we nend to eheek how we stand on both sides !men's and women's!." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Balllly Pallll Springs awaits softball team 

DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING> ARTS CENTER 
Over 300 Players & Singers! 
Saturday, February 26, 2005 8:00p.m. 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra Notre Dame Chorale Notre Dame Glee Club Notre Dame Liturgical Choir Notre Dame Women's Liturgical Choir 
1-vith faculty soloists 
Carolyn Plummer, violin Karen Buranskas, cello John Blacklow, piano 
Mozart: Overture to Die Zauberflote Beethoven: Triple Concerto Haydn: Harmoniemesse 
Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts University of Notre Dame 
Admission $6; ND/SMC faculty I staff $5; seniors $4; students $3 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Axxociate Sports Editor 

A week af'ter flying out to California only to see rain cancel four of the five games they were scheduled to play, the Irish are hoping for a little more cooperation from nature this time around. 
Notre Dame (4-2) is sehed­uled to play in the Palm Springs Classic in Palm Springs, Calif., this weekend in the team's third straight road tournament. The Irish 
INCOME TAX PREPARATION Daniel F. Osberger, CPA & MBA 
Call to Meet at Your Campus Office or Home W: 246-1165 C: 514-7453 OASIS FINANCIAL SERVICES 
Osberger Accounting Solutions & Investment Services 
203 S. Ironwood Drive South Bend, IN 46556 E-mail: Dan.Osberger@Comcast.Net 
expeet to faee a wide variety of opponents, inducting three ranked teams. 
Tho team's 12-1 loss to Padlic was the worst loss for the Irish last season, but Notre Dame will have a chance for redemption this Saturday when they take on the No. 20 Tigers. 
The Irish open with two games on Friday -against Loyola-Marymount and then a battle with No. 4 UCLA. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Mens College Basketball Big East Conference 
team cont. overan 
Boston College 11-2 22-2 Connecticut 10·3 18·6 Syracuse 10·4 23,5 Pittsburgh 8·5 18~ Villanova 8·5 18·6 Georgetown 8·5 16·8 NOTRE DAME 8·6 16·8 West Virginia 1•1 17-8 Seton Hall 3-10. 11·13 St. John's 3-11 9·15 Providence 2~11 12-15 Rutgers 2·11 9·15 
Women's College Basketball Big East Conference 
team conf. overall 
Rutgers 12·2 21-5 Connecticut 12·2 19·6 NOTRE DAME 11-3 23·4 Villanova 10·4 17-8 Boston College 8·6 17·8 West Virginia 7-7 16·9 St. John's 6-8 17-8 Seton Hall 6-8 14·11 Georgetown 5·9 10-15 Plltsburgh 4-10 12·13 Syracuse 3·11 11-14 Providence 0·14 1~24 
Baseball America College Top25 
teqm recQrd 
.. 1 
Tulane 2 Louisiana State 3 Texas 4 Cal State-Fullerton 5 South Carolina 6 Georgia 1 Miami 8 Baylor 9 Arizona 10 North Carolina 11 TexasA&M 12 Florida 13 Stanford 14 Rice 15 Mississippi 16 •Vanderbilt 17 Georgia Tech 18 UC Irvine 19 Washington 20 NOTRE DAME 21 Winthrop 22 Southern California 23 Florida State 24 Texas Christian 25 OralRoberts 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Seton Hall at Boston College, noon Sat., WB Iowa at Penn State, noon Sat., WHME Providence at Syracuse, noon Sat., ESPN2 Missouri at Texas, 1 p.m. Sat., ABC Kentucky at Alabama, 2 p.m. Sat., CBS Connecticut at Pittsburgh, 4 p.m. Sat., CBS Michigan State at Indiana, noon Sun., CBS UCLA at NOTRE DAME, 2 p.m. Sun., CBS 
NBA 

Cavaliers at Pacers, 8 p.m., ESPN Wizards at Bulls, 8:30p.m., CSN Pistons at Lakers, 10:30 p.m., ESPN Bulls at Bobcats, 7 p.m. Sat., WGN 
PGA 

WGC Match Play Championship Finals, 2 
p.m. Sun., ABC 


OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROA,t THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICEs Friday, February 25, 2005 
NBA 


Associated Press 

The weakest division in the NBA suddenly looks a little stronger, with Antoine Walker back on the Celtics and Chris Webber in Philadelphia. 
The NBA trade deadline came and went Thursday with a total of 11 deals involving 35 players being agreed to in the final 24 hours before the cutoff. 
Baron Davis was traded from New Orleans to Golden State for Speedy Claxton and Dale Davis, Keith Van Horn went from Milwaukee to Dallas for Calvin Booth and Alan Henderson, and Houston acquired several veterans to add to the league's old­est roster. 
Walker went to Boston in a four-player trade, with Gary Payton, Michael Stewart, Tom Gugliotta and a No. 1 pick going to Atlanta. 
Rodney Rogers and injured forward Jamal Mashburn were dealt from New Orleans to Philadelphia for Glenn Robinson, who has not played this season. It was the second trade in a span of less than 24 hours by 76ers general manager Billy King, who pulled off a blockbuster Wednesday night by acquiring Webber from the Sacramento Kings for forwards Corliss Williamson, Brian Skinner and Kenny Thomas. 
In other deals: 

+ 
San Antonio acquired center Nazr Mohammed and guard Jamison Brewer from New York for forward Malik Rose and two future No. 1 draft picks 

+ 
Cleveland acquired guard Jiri Welsch from Boston for a future No. 1 pick. 

+ 
New York acquired for­ward Maurice Taylor from Houston for guard Moochie Norris, forward Vin Baker and a second­round draft pick. 

+ 
Houston got guard Mike 


James and center Zendon Hamilton from Milwaukee for guard Reece Gaines and two future second­round picks. 
+ 
Golden State sent center Euduardo Najera to Denver, guard Luis Flores and a No. 1 pick to Denver for forward Nikoloz Tskitishvili and guard Rodney White. 

+ 
Charlotte dealt veteran Steve Smith to Miami for forward Malik Allen. 


Webber was on the tele­phone with former Michigan teammate Jalen Rose when Webber received a call from Kings coach Rick Adelman to inform him of the trade. 
IN BRIEF 
Woods coasts in match 
play championship 
CARLSBAD, Calif. -Two-time defending champion Tiger Woods won his 13th consecutive match at the rain-soaked Match Play Championship on Thursday. 
Woods coasted to a 4-and-3 victory over Nick Price, as nine of the top 10 seeds advanced to the second round. 
Top-seeded Vijay Singh beat Shingo Katayama 4 and 3, Phil Mickelson led by as many as four holes before dispatching short-hitting Loren Roberts 3 and 1, and Retief Goosen went the distance with Stephen Leaney, winning 1-up. 
Fifth-seeded Mike Weir was the only loser among the top 10, falling to Kirk Triplett 1-up. 
Sergio Garcia, the No. 6 seed, easi­ly beat Alex Cejka 4 and 2, but the remaining top 10 needed at least 18 holes to win. Seventh-ranked Padraig Harrington edged Jeff Maggert 1-up, and No. 9 Davis Love III beat Chris Riley by the same score. 
Cubs,Sosa,atodds 
MESA, Nev.-Chicago Cubs man· ager Dusty Baker and some of his players are disputing some com­ments Sammy Sosa made when he reported to the Baltimore Orioles' camp. 
At a news conference Wednesday, Sosa was asked about comments by Cubs players who said he and the team were better off following the Feb. 2 trade. Sosa apparently inter­preted that as the Cubs saying they didn't need him anymore. 
"They lie," Sosa was quoted as saying in several newspapers. The Cubs insisted Thursday that's not what they said or meant. 
"Did I say that?" asked Cubs pitch­er Kerry Wood. "I never did say it, so apparently somebody else lies. Not him. I'm not talking about him. I never said we were better without Sammy. I said I think both teams got better in the offseason not because we got rid of Sammy but because of some other moves we made. I don't have to justify myself. The comments I made, none of them were directed at Sammy. I did nothing but wish Sammy the best of luck, and I'll con­tinue to wish Sammy the best of luck." 
Gagne sprains ligament VERO BEACH, Fla. -Los Angeles Dodgers closer Eric Gagne sprained a ligament in his left knee Thursday during the team's first full-squad workout of spring training, and will undergo an MRI exam. 
Gagne didn't seem particularly concerned, but trainer Stan Johnston said the 29-year-old right-hander probably will have his activity limited for about a week. Johnston said the injury needs about six weeks to fully heal. 
"Any time you hurt something, it's usually going to take that long," Johnston said. "We want to do a pre­cautionary MRI to see what the dam­age is. It was hard to examine him because he was apprehensive at times." 
FriJay, February 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 

Irish runners to rest this vveekend 
By RYAN KIEFER Spons Writer 

Tlw Notre Dame women's track team will enjoy a well dnservod byo this wnokend. just six days ai'Wr finishing second at tlw Big East Indoor <:ham pi(mships. 
Tho Irish wnrc~ scheduled to travel to Boston to compete in tho USATF Championships, a national eham pionship-ealiber ovent f'naturing several prol'es­sional athletes. Instead. Notre Dame has chosen to keep all their athletes horne to rest. Coach Tim Connelly explained the Iogie behind the decision. 
"The girls competed real hard last week. The competition was intense, and it was a very long week -we left Wednesday night and didn't get back until Monday morning," Connelly said. "Arter a week like that. we rwed some time oJT to get every­one rested for NCAA's and let people catch up on work." 
CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 

Connelly was pleased with his team's performance last week at the conference meet. Knowing that Pittsburgh was the prohibitive favorite, th'e Irish carne closer to the Panthers than Connelly figured they would. Junior Stephanie Madia's performance drew spe­cial recognition from Connelly. 
"She IMadial ran a great meet, running second in the mile and the 3,000, and run­ning strong in two relays," he said. "To run four races at that level was incredible." 
The only negative Connelly drew from the Big East meet was junior All-American Molly lluddle's foot injury. Huddle, running in her llrst meet of the season because of a foot injury she sustained in cross country, suffered an injury on a different bone in her foot. The injury is blamed on running before the previous ailment was healed, Connelly said, lamenting the decision to run Huddle last weekend. 
"It simply wasn't worth it," he said. "This will be a longer recovery period because we will be sure not to rush her back from this injury." 
The Irish will run next in the Alex Wilson Invitational at Lortus Center starting a week from today, which will be the final meet before the NCAA championships. 
"We'll bo running kids that are close to provisional times, and other athletes who have provisional times, but will be looking to move up in the rank­ings to assure themselves a spot in tho small but competitive NCAA field," he said. 
MLB 

No pain in ankle for Red Sox ace 

Associated Press 

FOHT MEYEHS, Fla. -Curt Schilling's manager was encouraged, but tho perfec­tionist pitcher was loss than thrilled Thursday after throw­ing ofT a mound for the first time since winning Game 2 of the World Series. 
Sixteen days 
important limo. 

"I think he looked tmrifk," manager Torry Franeona said. "lie wants to be dotting every eonwr right now and throw­ing splits, and that's just not going to happen." 
Sehilling's 2 I -6 reeord and 
3.26 EHA in his first snason with Boston boosted the Hod 

Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
Attention: 

JUNIORS 
who are interested in teaching English or studying abroad for one year after graduation 
Come to an information meeting on 
FULBRIGHTS 
Monday, February 28 or Tuesday, March 1 5:00 pm in 119 O'Shaughnessy 
after beating St. Sox into the
"/ didn't feel as
Louis, the Boston playoffs, whnre Red Sox pitcher good as I wanted his bloody soek had ankle sur­to feel." boearne tlw 
gery. symbol or his "This was a detnrmination to
Curt Schilling
day when I dido 't do whatever lw feel as good as I Boston pitcher eould to help 
wanted to feel," Schilling said after his 47-pitch, 16-minute workout at Fort Myers. Fla. "My ankle didn't hurt, so I guess that's a positive for peo­ple other than me." 
Pitching opening day against the New York Yanknes on April 3 -probably against former Arizona teammate Randy Johnson -remains a possibility, and Schilling's competitive nature is driving him toward that. 
But he wants to make sure he's healthy at a much more 

them win tho World Series for tho llrst time in H6 years. 
I le had one of tho worst out­ings of his eanwr in the first game of the AL c.hampionship series, allowing six runs in throe innings of a 1 0-7 loss to the Yankees. 
Before his next start. a ten­don that had boon slipping out of plaee was stitdwd to his skin. 
With blood seeping through tlw sutures, s(~hilling allowed one run in snvnn innings dur­ing Boston's 4-2 win. 
STUDENT OPEN SKATE FRIDAY FEBRUARY 25, 2005 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
JOYCE CENTER ICE RINK 

Open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
Call RecSports at 1~6100 for more information. 
If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships Office 103 O'Shag fellows@nd.edu 

Friday, February 25, 2005 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Cavaliers pose challenge for Irish 

By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Sports Writer 
When facing the No.2 team in the nation on the road, any extra edge is always welcome. Luckily for the Notre Dame men's tennis team, Irish coach Bobby Bayliss knows the lay of the land on this road trip. 
No. 24 Notre Dame (10-2) will head to Richmond, Va. and take on No. 2 Virginia (8-1) on Sunday. Originally scheduled in Charlottesville, the match has been moved to the Country Club of Virginia -where Bayliss, who hails from Richmond, worked as the assistant tennis pro while in graduate school. 
"It's a big challenge but it's a great opportunity," Bayliss said. "It's going to be fun to play in front of a vocal and knowledge­able crowd at the Country Club. There're a great number of UVA alums who live in Richmond as well as some Notre Dame alums, so I think we'll have a good following." 
Notre Dame is coming off a 4­3 road victory against Michigan State last Tuesday that came down to the wire. On a four­match winning steak, the Irish will face a difficult test against a powerful Cavalier squad. 
"Their lineup is loaded from top to bottom," Bayliss said. "For example, their No. 6 play­er, Darrin Cohen, is ranked No. 36 in the United States among all college players. That gives you an idea of their depth. Their No. 1 player is ranked No. 7 in the nation. Straight on down, they have a very loaded lineup." 
Although the Irish have stayed close to home this spring, playing only two match­es on the road, Notre Dame is undefeated on the road thus far. Their last victory against Michigan State allowed the team to test its mettle in a pres­sure situation on the road. Although the team dropped the doubles point, they bounced back and pulled out the win. That experience should prove valuable this Sunday. 
"I think that anytime you're in a close match -like the one at Michigan State -and you're fortunate enough to win it, you grow a little into your confi­dence to handle tough situa­tions," Bayliss said. "I think that's going to benefit us as the year goes on." 
Virginia is coming off a domi­nant week of competition at the USTAIITA National Team Indoor Championship. Entering the competition as the No. 9 seed, the Cavaliers defeated three top-1 0 opponents to reach the final -No. 7 Stanford, No. 2 UCLA and No. 6 Mississippi. 
Although the Irish dropped their only match against a top­10 team this year-No. 9 Duke -they'll get another shot this weekend. 
"It's a big challenge but it's a great opportunity," Bayliss said. "We've had the best success lower in the lineup and I think any team we play -on paper -that's where we have the greatest chance of success. I think we have chances to do well but we're going to have to be pretty focused. 
We h.ave to play our best match of the year to have a chance to win." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Penn State packs sharp bite 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
The Irish will kick off their 2005 season this Sunday when they visit Penn State, taking a No. 11 preseason ranking into University Park. 
The Irish, who have high expectations coming into the sea­son, don't expect their first game to be easy. Penn State and Notre Dame have played a series of close games in the past. 
"We expect a great game because ifyou look at the history of this game, it's usually a one or two goal [contest]," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. 
This year should be no differ­ent. Penn State will present Notre Dame with a tough game, as the Nittany Lions are ranked No. 18 in the country in the pre­season poll. 
Corrigan stressed the strengths of Penn State, focusing on the Nittany Lions' midfield and tran­sition game as key strengths that the Irish need to focus on. 
"They are very strong in the midfield, they got a lot of good midfielders, and they cause you a lot of problems there," Corrigan said. "That's something that we're going be concerned about, just keeping them out of the transition." 
Corrigan acknowledged the importance of executing in all facets of the game. For the open­ing game of the season, getting in rhythm is crucial. 
"It's the first game of the year and you can't get too caught up in your opponent," Corrigan said. "We don't like to do it at anytime, but we certainly want to make sure that for the first game of the year were concentrating on our own execution." 
Notre Dame has a lot of talent on their team coming into the season opener. 
The Irish are coming off an impressive 2004 season, when they finished 7-5 overall with a No. 12 overall ranking. 
In addition, the Irish retain six starters and 17 monogram win­ners from last year's team. 
While all of that looks good on paper, coach Corrigan does not feel that rankings matter much at this point. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

SENIORS Do your parents need a place to stay for Graduation? 
CALL 
Bed "N Breakt'ast Registry Housing NO Parents since '1983 
574-232-0774 888-830-7722 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
ND tries to boil water at Purdue 
By MIKE TENNANT Sports Writer 

Several Irish swimmers will head to Purdue this weekend for the Boiler-Make-It Invitational. 
The meet is primarily an end-of the-year hurrah for a number of younger swimmers, head coach Bailey Weathers said. 
"For kids that didn't get to go to Big East, this is kind of their big meet," Weathers said. 
But the meet could also serve as a stepping stone for two swimmers in particular. Sophomore Jessica Stephens and freshman Caroline Johnson will both participate this weekend with the hopes of posting better times before the NCAA Championships approach March 17-19. 
"We're trying to see if we can improve their times in terms of getting them to the NCAA's," Weathers said. "We think they need to be a little faster." 
Both swimmers have already posted NCAA "B" cuts, meaning they will be consid­ered for the NCAA's, but only the faster "A" cuts are guar­anteed spots in the champi­onships. 
Stephens posted "B" cuts in the 200-yard individual med­ley and the 200 breaststroke, while Johnson posted "B" cuts in the 50-yard freestyle, the 100 backstroke and the 100 freestyle. 
Both swimmers had good 
meets  last  week  in  East  
Meadow,  N.Y.,  and  were  
named All-Big East.  

Stephens won the 200 back­stroke and was a member of the title-winning 400 medley relay team. Johnson did not take any individual titles, but was a member of all four of the Irish championship relay teams. She was the first or second swimmer in the 400­yard medley and the 200, 400 and 800-yard freestyle relay teams. The 800-yard freestyle team even set a school record last week. 
Also swimming in the meet will be a number of younger swimmers who did not get a chance to compete in East Meadow. 
Raine Paulson-Andrews, a freshman, is a member of the national swim team in her native Jamaica. 
She participated in the Pan American Games and achieved All-America status in the 50-yard freestyle as well as in the 200-and 400-yard freestyle relays. 
Sophomore Krissy Archer was a co-recipient of the Beeler-Hipp Award, presented to an outstanding freshmen in honor of Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hip, both of whom were killed their freshman year. Archer is primarily a sprint-freestyle swimmer. 
The meet will contain most­ly Big Ten schools. 
Contact Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 


Eli Li II y and Company lnformati on Session 
Careers in Anance 
J!tll majors welcome 
March 1, 2005 ·7:00PM DeBartolo Hall, Room 113 
Uly I~ 1-:ddrG 10r JI..N~ lnll!!~~ ~ In CorpOii!!lll!! Fl~~ hll!!rn:hl~ 
Friday, February 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish hit the road for opener against Ohio 
By MATT PUGLISI Spons Wrirer 
Finally, a chancn to wash out that. hittnr tastn. 
i\ftPr rattling ofT a program­record ton straight wins to kick ofT its 2004 campaign, Notre l>anw droppnd fivn of its last snvnn contnsts, including a first round NC;\;\ tournamnnt heart­lm~aknr to Northwnstnrn that saw the Irish squander loads of' 4-0 and 7-:{ in an nvnntual I 0-8 loss. 
Whiln plnasnd with a season that saw tlm Irish risn to No. 2 in l.lw national polls, the early exit loft mach Tracy Coyne and com­pany fooling thny could have achinvml oven morn. 
"Tiw NC;\;\ game Iagainst Northwostnrnl -we worn win­ning and thiHl madn some eostly mistakes at tlw nnd," Coyne said. "It was a great season. We felt proud of a lot of our aeeomplish­nwnts, hut l think we felt a little bit of dissatisfaction with our nnding." 
But aftnr setting Notre Damn rncords in goals (206) and point.'> 
(297) last year, the Irish may be hard pressed to replicate the ofl'nnse that fadlitatnd last sea­son's success. 
Gone are the squad's top three and li1ur of il'> top five seorers ­first loam All-i\meriean Meredith Simon, third tnarn All-American Abby Owen, Launm Fischnr and Kasson Delano -from a year ago. Together, thn five accounted liu· 128 of 206 (62 pnrecnt) Irish goals, with Simon's 46 tallies con­tributing to a Notre Dame single snason rneord 74 points. 
With a number of new faees on oll"nnsn this year, Coynn plans to alt1~r tlw team's approach to eom­plmmmt thn current squad's tal­nnl'>. 
"i\ny time you bring in new pnopln Inn ofl'nns(~l. you're going 
to .havn ..a ,dill'ernn~ lo2k t.o yo~r oflnnsn, Coyne smd. We ro tm­\oring some of our plays and things like that to what tho strcmgths of this team are." 
The dif'fnrnnl approach has worked well thus far, as thn Irish wrapped up a 3-0 prnsnason with a pair of victories last Saturday and Sunday over Dartmouth and Boston University, respectively. After taking care of Tnam Canada Feb. I l. the Irish knocked oil' the Big Gronn 7-6 in fi'igid Hanover, Nil before making the short trip to Boston, where Notre Dame topped the Black Bears 13-10 the following af'ternoon. 
"We played outside, and it was 25 degroes, and we played back to back Saturday and Sunday," Coyne said. "We had a lot of adversity we had to overcome, so l was pretty happy lwith the msultsl. 
"l think lthe prnsnasonl pointnd out things that arn going well and things that need to be improved. It accomplished what you want llhn preseason to aceomplishl­what you want to get out of it." 
Arter eight months, Notre Dame can take the first step in erasing the displeasure of last snason's abrupt finish when it travels to Athens, Ohio to open the 2005 season against Ohio University on Sunday afternoon at 1 p.m. 
The Irish beat the Bobcats, 13­8, last April at Moose Krause Stadium in their most recnnt meeting. 
"Last year they gave us a mally good game," Coyne said. "I think we've been a team on their schedule that they're looking to beat so we know that we have to go into that game ready to play an opponent that is going to give us a tough challenge." 
Part of that challenge wilt be shutting down Canadian national team member Dana Dobbie. 
"Dana is very good," Coyne said. "She's a tatt and dominating attacker, but they graduated a lot of players, so I think that they're going to be a ditlerent team, also. 
"We're going into it slightly blind, but we didn't know much about Dartmouth or Boston University, either, so I think we can go into the game and adjust accordingly as the game goes on." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Final three games crucial 
Irish reach last few tests with the ball, future in their court 
By PAT LEONARD A~sociare Sports Editor 

With three games to play in the regalar season, Notre Dame (16-8, 8-6 Big East) has its rate in its own hands. 
The Irish will finish their sehedule with three home games at the Joyce Center, a court that has been friendly to say the least to head coach Mike Brey and company this season. 
"llaving our home crowd at our back is a big advantage for us," Irish guard Colin Falls said. "We've been play­ing a lot better at home than we have on the road this year." 
Falls makes a slight under­statement. Notre Dame is 12­2 at home, losing only to DePaul and Syracuse, and 4-6 away from the JACC. 
"Since the Syracuse loss, obviously our biggest wins for our NCAA tournament resume have been on this court," Brey said. 
As of Monday, Notre Dame had played more games against teams in the top 50 of the Ratings Percentage Index (HPI) -than any team in the country with 11. After a March 5 date with Pittsburgh, that number should inernas1~ to 12. 
The HPI is a system that ranks programs in a somn­what similar mannHr to that of the college football BCS. 
"Whatever they throw us in the postseason, be it tho Big East tournament braek1~t and hopefully the NCAA tourna­ment, no one can look at nw and say, 'Boy, that's a tough draw,"' Bn~y said. "We've already had a tough draw." 
The tough draw dealt to Brey's squad called for seven road games in a I 0-gamn stretch, ending with an 88-74 loss to Connecticut Saturday. 
"£t's been nice that we've been able to get some I'nst after that segment," Brey said. 
But the loss to the Huskies highlighted for the Irish coach Notre Dame's number one concern heading down the stretch. 
"The one thing we need the lbig guys] to do consistnntly the rest of the regular season and in the postseason is rebound the basketball," Brey said. "They've got to rebound the basketball consistently no matter if they're scoring or they're not." 
Center Torin Francis, for­ward Dennis Latimore and center/forward Hick Cornett combined for only nine boards as Connecticut out­rebounded the Irish 43-26. 
Notre Dame grabbed more rebounds than l'rovidonce (45-:~2) in a road win last Saturday but was out­rnbounded, 30-23, in a Feb. I 6 vietory against c;eorgntown. 
The Irish play UCLA Sunday, thon host Hutgnrs Mare.h :{ and Pittsburgh March 5. 
Amid the inconsistent play or thn Irish fronll:ourt, Cornntt has mnnrged as a dif'fernnen­makcr. 
"!.Hck ~s a vm~y ta.!n,ntod !?lay­er, Q ut n n satd. hspiH:tally against Providenco, hn canw in and just dorninatnd down low." 
Cornott scornd 14 points and grabbed 14 rnbounds against tho Friars. 
Despite positives and nega­tives that arisn around any program, Notre Dame has 
one  goal:  to  return to  the  
NCAA tournament.  
As  teams  lose down  the  

regular season stretch and seeding beeornes more per­manent as conference tour­naments approach, the Irish remain focused on their task at hand. 
The eircumstaneos up until the Big East tournament fall to their advantage. 
"Wacky things happon in the Big East, but there aro still things lwe can dol to take care of our own des­tiny," Falls said. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
UCLA 
continued from page 24 

The 6-foot-7 forward, who Brcy describes as playing much longer than his size, scored 39 points against Arizona State on Feb. 10 and is averaging 18.7 points and 8.1 rebounds per game. 
"Thompson is a tough matehup because he is their second big guy but he steps out on the floor," Brey said. "It makes a guy like Jordan Cornette very, very important to defend that multi-dimensional 
the teprechaun Logion. In Notre Dame's I OOth soa­son, Irish fans from all eorners 
· will be in town for tho game between the two schools whose paths have crossed many limns before. 
After all, tho alumni filling tlw Joyce Centnr will still havo visions of' Dwight Clay's gamo­winning jumper some throe do(:ades later. 
''I'd likn our guys to under­stand the history of Notrn Damn and UCLA, and what it did for eolloge baskntball on telnvision baek in tho 70s and 80s," Broy said. "It wakes up a lot of mem­ories for our fans that hav1~ 4-man." 
On the other side of the ball, the Irish arc continuing to search for a consistent balance between the guards and for­wards. 
"I think it's very important because when we play our best we've had a good balancn of inside, outside," Brey said. "We want to continue to work on that and get our big guys even more confidence. They've bonn there some nights and other nights they haven't." 
However, with all that sot aside, Sunday's game will still be a memorable occasion for many fans who do not make up 
Dear Notre Dame Students, 
This Friday, February 25, and Saturday, February 26, the University will host nearly 600 members of The Edward Frederick Sarin Society. Made up of alumni, parents, and friends, this generous crowd gathers biennially for "A Weekend of Recognition", an effort on our part to say thank you for all that they do for you and Notre Dame. The group is responsible, for example, for funding $2.2 million annually in expendable scholarships and supporting endowed professorships and capital improvements. Their generosity has touched every aspect of Notre Dame life. 
The group is so large (this is good news) that they will use North Dining Hall for Saturday meals. This means your dining options will be limited (this is bad news). 
In particular, on Saturday, 2/26/05, the North Dining Hall will be closed all day -no meals will be served. As a result, those who normally eat in the North Dinin& Hall are asked to use South Dinin& Hall for Saturday lunch and dinner. 
On behalf of the Sarin Society, please accept our sincere gratitude for your cooperation and join with us in welcoming these benefactors to campus. Special thanks too, to all the students participating in the weekend --the event simply would not occur without you. 
Michael C. Brach 
Executive Director 
The Edward Frederick Sarin Society 
been following ND basketball for a long, tong time." 
Quinn is one of Notre Damn's players who undorstands the significance of this game from the perspectiw~ of those athletns who came belim1 him. 
"It means a lot to pnople that have played here in the past because of how storied the rivalry is and some of tho histo­ry behind somH of' the UCLA­Notre Dame rnatehup," Quinn said. 
Sophomore guard Colin Falls echoed this sentiment. 
"Thoro's a lot of history with this game, it's a l'un game," Falls said. "I know all the alum­ni are nxdtod and that excit11s 
us." 

But tho historical aspect is only one sidn of this game, and the loam knows then~ is a much more important goal that must be accomplished this W11okend. 
While tho playnrs roeognizn the imporlancn or this game to the program as a whole, think­ing about history will be far from thnir priority Sunday. 
lnstnad, tho Irish are choosing to fonts on thnir immndiatn task -earning anothnr quality win. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at 
rgriffi3@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 25, 2005 
coaching staff. From there, they would be going to the game do," he said. "This is one thing As for Sunday, Weis wants it will meet with individual coach­anyway, and our basketball you can do -you can get them to be a special experience for
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
and some of these assistant coaches and start forming rela­tionships with them," Frank said. "And probably just as important is the parents being there and meeting the coaches. I think that it's more of a pre­liminary introduction -this is Notre Dame and this is what we can do. So, it's an orientation, if anything. Obviously they're going to try to get people excit­ed about Notre Dame." 
On Sunday, juniors and their families -or high school coaches, in some cases -will meet with the entire Irish 
Seniors 
continued from page 24 
average and grabs 5.9 boards per game. Her presence in the paint has opened up Notre Dame's offense and created more scoring opportunities. 
The two, along with guard Megan Duffy, serve as the team's tri-captains and have been the voice of the Irish in 2004-05. Batteast said she and Borton set a goal before their senior cam­paign and they plan on attaining it. 
"Right now we're the class of '05 and we are really, really try­ing to leave this program how we found it -after a national eham pionship," Batteast said. "We're trying to go to the Final Four, and we've taken care of business so far so well see how it goes." 
Notre Dame has been impres­sive in nearly every game, knocking off seven top 25 oppo­mmts and avoiding any bad loss­es. If the Irish finish the season strong, they will be in a good position for a No. 2 or No. 3 seed when the NCAA Tournament bracket comes out. 
But right now, Batteast and Borton are focused on beating West Virginia. The Mountaineers have won three straight games and spanked Providence 99-59 Feb. 22. Meg Bulger. the sister of es. Weis said each assistant coach is assigned an area of the country and that is how the jun­iors will be split up. The group then will have lunch and attend the men's basketball game. 
Weis sees the game as an opportunity for both the men's basketball team and Irish fans. 
"I happen to be a big fan of other sports," he said. ''I'm not selfish. I don't look at this as just an opportunity for football. I'm looking as this as we can kill two birds with one stone on Sunday. Our basketball team's on the bubble, and really for this game against UCLA, we need to win the game. So you would hope the student body 
St. Louis Rams quarterback Marc Bulger, paces West Virginia with 20.5 points per game, while teammates Sherell Sowho and Yolanda Paige add 
12.6 and 11.3 points, respective­ly. Paige also tallies more than nine assists per game, first in the nation. 
"[Bulger] is a great, great shooter," McGraw said. "We have a lot of concerns about our ability to guard her. She's play­ing really well." 
A hot West Virginia team will not be the only challenge Notre Dame faces Saturday, especially for Batteast and Borton. 
The team's only seniors must deal with the emotions of play­ing in front of the Irish faithful for one final game. 
"I got a little emotional the second-to-last game when they made the announcement that the last game was coming," Batteast said. "So I hopn I'll be 
OK." 
Borton agreed. 
"I think its been the best sea­son so far during my four years," she said. "I've really enjoyed all my teammates and I think we have a great atmos­phere here with the team chem­istry.... It's going to be a little emotional, I'm guessing because I've had so many good memories here." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer 

Forward Crystal Erwin points to the crowd after Notre Dame's 63-47 win over Rutgers Jan. 23 at the Joyce Center. 
team would like the help of the student body because it makes a difference when they're into the game. 
"I get a residual effect of this. When I'm sitting there, I get 80 juniors from across the Midwest, and this is their first live impression of Notre Dame." 
Weis said this is the first step to improving recruiting, after Notre Dame has finished out­side the top 10 the past two years. 
"The first opportunity for us to reshape the direction of our football program happens at that same event [Junior Day], because there's only so many things the NCAA allows you to 
Dayton 
continued from page 24 

and Trubee lead an experi­enced rotation. 
While Dayton might be an oft­forgotten northern team around the nation, Mainieri realizPs his ball club faces some stiff compe­tition. 
"We're expecting some really great competition down there. Dayton is one of those programs from the Midwest that maybe doesn't have a national reputa­tion, but their kids are very hard-nosed players. They play good baseball." 
"We play teams from the Mid­American Conference on a regu­lar basis during the middle of the week, and every time we play those teams we have dog­lights. Dayton is not in the Mid­American Conference, but they're like one of those teams." 
Mainieri believes the Irish need to be hard-nosed them­selves. 
"If we get some base runners, we're going to put our runners on campus." 
Weis said this is just one of a few Junior Days that will hap­pen this spring, all of which are important to recruiting for next season. He reiterated that the campus plays an important role. 
"You win and lose recruits a lot of time based on what kids on campus actually say when they're there," Weis said. "I never want anyone to mislead someone, but there was more than one time this year when a kid was out somewhere and someone would say 'don't come here.' When they say that, those guys are saying, 'hold it -their own students are saying don't come here.'" 
in motion and try to put a lot of pressure on the other team. That's our game, and whether it's against Texas A&M, Dayton or anybody else, we're going to play the game the way that we play it." 
After Thursday surgery for a hand injury suffered in last weekend's opening game, junior DH Matt Bransfield is out for at least the next couple of weeks. 
Shortstop Greg Lopez, still recovering from a hamstring injury that limited him solely to a defensive role last Sunday, should be ready to go come Saturday. 
"(His hamstring] is still a little bit tender," Mainieri said. "He'll be ready to play. We're just not sure how much." 
A team of great depth, the Irish turn to junior outfielder Alex Nettey, sophomore DH Danny Dressman and junior util­ity man Eddie Smith for major contributions. 
"Certainly Alex Nettey and Danny Dressman are going to get a signifieant amount of play­ing time this weekend, especially with Bransfield being out, and, the 80-some juniors. 
''I'm trying to make Sunday as a day when you go into the place and it's electric," he said. "What I do know is in the sell­ing of Notre Dame, truly pitch­ing Notre Dame, it's got to be a group effort. There's plenty of people that love the place, but they might not be the people that they're listening to. So what I'm trying to do is that the student body has to realize, that just as the football team is an extension of them, they're an extension of the football team when it comes to recruiting." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
then of course Eddie Smith being in this position of filling in for any of our infielders. Depending on what we do with Greg Lopez, how his hamstring is healing, it's quite possible that Smith could get another start," Mainieri said. 
Nettey, who leads the team with a .571 batting average in seven at-bats and owns a perfect 
1.000 fielding percentage, pro­vided a spark on the opening trip last weekend. 
lie and Dressman combined for clutch hits, while Smith turned key double plays at shortstop. Whatever the nine­man combination might be, there are certainly no easy outs in the Irish lineup and no drop oils in the Irish defense. 
"I think it's the sign of a good team when you ean count on a lot of different players and that you use your entire roster. We just need everybody ready to go in there, so that when we eall on them, everybody can count on them doing the job." Mainieri said. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 


r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~ 
Friday, February 25, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
PEANUTS 
WI-1AT DOES IT DO? 



---=---=-= =-~~ ==-==--==================================================================================================== 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Upset 54 Fifth, e.g. 
1 Address 31 "Doesn't bother 56 Beer drinker's me" terse critique
8 Rapper's beat 34 Kind of 57 Not knowing 
15 From China, e.g. 
agreement 

58 In myth, loser of 16 Stuck 
35 2003 Sandier/ a shouting17 "Not sol" 
Nicholson movie match with 18 Stand that a 
Hermes
41 Robert Frost 
politician might farm site 59 Oath-taker 

take 
42 Big Japanese 

19 Sleeping unit? 
computer firm 

DOWN 
20 Makes up, in a 43 Defense device 
1 Take suddenly 44 "Finlandia"way 2 Longtime Penn22 Heelless shoe, 
composer 

State footballfor short Sibelius coach23 Dohnanyi who 
45 Must, slangily 

composed 3 Ascetics of yore "Ruralia 47 Sister_, title 
4 tilt 
Hungarica" character of a 1970 film 5 Sea palm or 
25 Delhi chestful badderlocks48 Funny26 Detroit's 6 Singing groups 
Arena 49 Flimsy, as chances go 7 Somehow 
27 Millennium starter 51 Mr. abroad 8 Causes for penalties
29 Dark side of 52 With no time to China lose 9 Some parodists 
10 Tic-ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE (candies) 
11 Court figure: ~:-;+.:~t:-;-1 Abbr. 
-=+-:+:::+.::-t;-t 12 Singing effect 
-:t-:'-t':'-11..,.. 13 Microbiology l!!lt-..;:;+:+;;,. topic 
14 CBers' numerical system 
-7+-:+.i:+.::-i 21 Commercial fishing aids 
24 Forest plant with triangular fronds 
....:....~.;.;;.a.;..;.,~.;..;..~ 26 Some duplexes 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

28 Blog 37 Make a subtle 46 Play to_ predecessor transformation, (tie) as in color
30 U-Haul 49 Dethrone competitor 
38 "The Bronx 

50 Emmy winner 
32 Game played Zoo" star 
Falco 

with counters 39 Tell tales 53 Avoided33 Zine 
bloodshed 
40 Movie extra
35 Lies next to 

55 _Toguri 36 Is unobliged to 45 Relish (Tokyo Rose) 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I YARDT 
j 
1 
rr 

C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Aighls Reserved. 
KLANE 
t 
IHEETES ± 

I I r J 
www.jumble.com 
CEIVED j

r 'l I
( Now arrange the circled_ letters tof-.. ..A form the surprise answer, as L-----L-"--.a.--...u.-.....::J..____L-....J suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: rnA 'liiiiiJ' 
(Answers tomorrow) FILMY TOXIC VIOLIN EXPENDYesterday's I Jumbles: 
Answer: What the bookie gave the waiter ­A NICE "TIP" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TBIS DAY: Billy Zane, 39; Kristin Davis. 40; 
Eddie Murray, 49; Edward James Olmos, 58 
Happy Birthday: This can he a good year or a had one, depending on how you treat the people around you. It's a good time to eliminate those who drag you down and become closer to those who share the same hclicfs amJ ethics as you. The more you can do to even out your life and simplify your future, the mon: satisfied you will hecomc. Your numbers arc 8. 12, 22, 31, 39. 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Be careful not to make decisions based only on what you can sec when there will he so much that is yet to he revealed. It may not be easy. but you will have to he patient in order to avoid making u mistake. 
*** 

TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): This is not the day to he uncertain ahout your abilities. Give it your best shot and you will get what you want. Love is in a high cyde, so take advantage of it and enjoy the one you care most about. 5 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Just when you think you have everything done. something else will come up that sends you oil on another whirlwind. Don't get so involved in whatever you arc doing that you miss out on an opportunity that could change your future. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you overreact to things that don't really maltcr, you will miss out on the eventful happenings going on in your own hack yard. Change may not he something you like. hut it will he to your advantage. 4 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You would rather he giving the orders than laking them, hut today is all ahout hard work and achievement. A financial change wi II come as a surprise. Don't leave anything to chance. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Not everyone will understand what you arc trying to do, hut as long as you have a handle on the situation, you will he successful. Emotional maltcrs may lead you astray if you aren't grounded. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may have to deal with institutions or government agencies today. Expect the unexpected and he prepared to deal with whatever comes up. This can he a turning point if you are willing to give and take. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A new creative direction is in the picture. Comhinc your talents to come up with an angle that will put you on lop of any competition you face. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dt.-c. 21 ): Don't start something new or make changes, especially if it requires dealing with other people. Emotional matters will escalate, and unforeseen problems will crop up. A low pmlile is in order. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): You have everything in place and everyone willing to do what you want, hut if you arc too sure of yourself. you will prohuhly make a costly mistake. Don't think too hig. Stay within your houndaries and you will gain ground. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Everything will come hack to ownership, legalities and money. Prepare to give up a few things in order to rid yourself of a responsibility you don't want or need. It's a new day, and your future looks hright. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may feel a little weepy today if you haven't taken care of personal matters like you should have. Letting had situations hang over your head will hold you hack. Keep making changes until you lind yourself in a more suitahlc situation. *** 
Birthday Baby: You arc emotional and very easily hurt. You arc a perfectionist, always striving to do your hest. You arc a dreamer and a very giving, unique person. 
Check out Eugenia's Wch sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com . 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

HOW THE: 5 TE:AMY SOAP OPERA 5 TAR LEFT THE FANS. 

.. 
-

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, February 25, 2005 
page 24 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Bruin up a challenge 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
This Sunday, the Irish will wel­come UCLA to the Joyce Center for one of Notre Dame's most sto­ried college basketball rivalries. 
But this year there will be 
more at stake  
for the Irish  
than continu- See Also  
ingtion.  a  tradi­ "Final three  
With  the  games crucial"  
season wind­ing down, and  page21  
both the Big  

East and NCAA tournaments quickly approaching, the Irish cannot afford any setbacks. 
So while the Notre Dame alum­ing. ni pack the arena, and the mem­This year, the game is even ories of the snapped 88-game more important. win streak remind the Irish faith­With Notre Dame currently sit­ful of their glory years, this cur­ting at 16-8, and 8-6 in the con­rent Notre Dame 
ference, this is team will have not the time much more on for the Irish to their minds than simply resign celebrating the Sunday's past. game to its 
In the teams' historical sig­last meeting, nificance. Notre Dame "Our main defeated the goal is to get Bruins 75-60 at into the NCAA UCLA. tournament, 
In that game, Irish guards and with three regular season Chris Thomas and Chris Quinn games left we're in a good posi­scored 21 and 20 points respec­tion where we are at right now," tively on combined 15-31 shoot-Quinn said. "There is a lot of basketball to be played and we have to do a lot of things well to get to where we want to get." 
With two Big East matchups looming next week, the Irish are going to need to pick up another quality win Sunday. 
"It would be a very good addi­tion to an NCAA tournament resume that we are trying to build given the fact that they are a top-50 RPI team," Brey said. 
UCLA has a talented, young squad, Brey said. The Bruins play well on the perimeter and have decent size down low. 
The Irish coach singled out for­ward Dijun Thompson as a par­ticular player that concerns him. 
see UCLA/page 21 
FOOTBALL 

ND hosting uJunior Day" 
Top prospects arrive for recruiting event slated for Sunday 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
Less than a month removed from Signing Day, new head coach Charlie Weis and his coaching staff are recruiting hard for the class of 2010. 
Approximately 80 juniors will be on campus Sunday for a Junior Day, Weis said Wednesday. The players will meet with the coaching staff and attend the men's basket­ball game against UCLA at 2 

p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
"It's a pretty large number," Mike Frank of irisheyes.com said. "For something like this, it's a pretty good-sized group of guys." 
The key juniors will be cor­nerback Phillip Strozier out of Kansas City, Mo., and local product A.J. Edds, Frank said. Notre Dame will also be recruiting three quarterbacks -Demetrius Jones out of Chicago, Zach Frazer of Pennsylvania and Jason Burke, all of whom will be here Sunday. 
The high school juniors, hail­ing mostly from the Midwest, have to pay their own way to visit Notre Dame but were invited by the Irish coaching staff, Weis said. Frank said Sunday is a key part of the recruiting process. 
"I think it's important, but probably more important is for some of these kids to get a chance to meet coach Weis 
see RECRUITS/page 22 

-
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Batteast, Borton to be honored 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
What started four years ago with six, ends Saturday with just two. 
Jacqueline Batteast and Teresa Borton, the only two remaining players from the 2005 recruiting class, play their final game at the Joyce Center this weekend against West Virginia at 2 p.m. when the No. 10 Irish (23-4, 11-3 Big East) face the Mountaineers (16-9, 7­7). 
Batteast and Borton will be honored before Notre Dame's conference matchup on Senior Day. The pair has seen its class dwindle from six to two after Allison Bustamante, Kelsey Wicks, Katy Flecky and Jill Krause all left the Irish pro­gram. 

"I thought it was pretty cool that six of us came in, and I would be always thinking about how Senior Night would be with people coming out and how long it would take," Batteast said. "But now, it'll be pretty quick." 
But for Irish coach Muffet McGraw, what the 2005 class lacks in numbers they make up with performance and leader­ship. 
"You can tell from the success of our team how good our lead­ership has been this year," McGraw said of Borton and Batteast. 
Batteast, an All-American last season, has continued to lead the Irish on both ends of the floor this year. She aver­ages 17.7 points and 6.6 rebounds per game and passed Alicia Ratay for fourth on the all-time scoring list with 20 points against Georgetown on Feb. 12. 
Borton has battled through injuries to help Notre Dame· in numerous ways. She is third on the team with an 8.6 scoring 
see SENIORS/page 22 
BASEBALL 

Tea111 to face Dayton at HoHoKa111 Park 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 

Despite a week of midterms looming, the No. 20 Irish baseball team is revved up for its weekend trip to Arizona. The Irish (3-1) face the Dayton Flyers (3-2) in a three-game series -and not just in any old ballpark. 
The teams square off at HoHoKam Park, the spring train­ing home of the Chicago Cubs, in front of Cubs General Manager Jim Hendry and a handful of scouts. 
"How can you not be excited to play in a major league ballpark?" coach Paul Mainieri said. ''I'm sure the players are going to be excited to go out there and do their best." 
The series gets underway Saturday with a 2 p.m. game, which pits Notre Dame ace Tom Thornton (0-0) against Dayton right-hander Craig Stammen (1­1). At 5:30 p.m., sophomore Jess. Stewart (1-0) will take the mound for the Irish in the second nine­inning game of the day. Flyers' ace Luke Trubee (2-0), who has already tallied a team-leading 13 strikeouts and two wins, will try to continue his early-season dom­inance. To top off the weekend, Irish sophomore Jeff Samardzija (1-0) gets the call for a noon Sunday game. 
. Thornton is coming off a solid five-inning outing last weekend in the first game against Central Florida. Stewart allowed an unearned run in the second bat­tle against UCF and nabbed the win. Samardzija picked up his victory against Florida A&M. He pitched five strong innings and allowed an earned run in the third. For the Flyers, Stammen 
see DAYTON/page 22 

DUSTIN MENNELLAfThe Observer 
Houston Astros pitchers Roger Clemens, left, and Brad Lidge speak at the Notre Dame Opening Night Dinner Feb. 10. 
en 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
MEN'S TENNIS 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
WOMEN'S TENNIS FENCING 

w 
c.,:) Notre Dame at Notre Dame at 
"Boiler-M a ke-lt" 

Notre Dame at Texas, Iowa at 
Midwest Fencing z Ohio University 
Virginia Invitational Penn State Irish 

Conference Championships
::5 

c:l Sunday, 1 p.m. 
Sunday, 12 p.m. 
Saturday-Sunday 

Sunday, 1 p.m. 
Saturday-Sunday 
The Irish visit the 
Saturday-Sunday
The Irish head to 
Irish to compete in 

The No. 11 Irish kick 
No. 20 Notre Dame
Cl: 

Bobcats in their season 
"last chance" meet at 
at Notre Dame 
Richmond to play the off the season against 

hosts No. 13 Texas and!; opener. 
No. 2 Cavaliers. 
Purdue. 

the Nittany Lions. 
No. 57 Iowa Sunday. 
page 21 page 20 
page 20 
page 20 page 17 page 17 

-









