
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 98 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24,2005 
Off-campus development proposed 
By MADDIE HANNA A"-•iManl News Editor 
Arriving on campus, Notrn Damn and Saint Mary's studnnts an~ quiek to lamnnt that tlwir new homn lacks two major assnl<> ­sunny days and ofT-campus options. 
Although tlwy nw't change tho woatlwr, Notrn Dame and South Bond officials arn targeting the sPmnd mmplaint by dtwnloping a nnw retail and rnsidPnlial distriet just oubidn Notrn Damn's campus, a ehangn that will bnrwfit both studnnts and the surrounding South Bnnd mmmunity. 
"Our goal is to <Teatn a mmmu­nity neighborhood that studnnts can walk to -that rnally doesn't exist in thn Notre Dame experi­encn now," said Greg llakanen, dirnctor of asset management and rnal estate developer for Notre Damn. 
According to John Aff'leck­Gravns, exneutive vien-pmsident of Notrn Damn, the new projeet will bngin where Angola Boulevard meets Eddy Street at the soon-to-relocate Logan Center, and will continue all the way down to Napoleon Boulevard. 
Al11oek-Graves said he hopes to ernato a commercial district with one block of restaurants, stores and apartments followed by two rows of townhouses and another 
see EDDY/page 6 


Panel addresses hutnanitarian crisis in Sudan 
Experts brainstorm new paths to peace 
Hy MICHAEL BUSK 
N<·ws Writer 
l:'ditor'.o; Noll': This is the first arlidr• in a two-parl series j(JCus­iny on 1/w background oj' and possih/1' solutions to the current r-risis in ,'l'udan. 
Thn~•l nxJwrL'i on the humani­tarian crisis in Darfur •:ritidznd tlw lark of' international response to the war rrinws thorn in a sym­posium Wednesday afternoon. Tlw tlm~n also rPcommnndPd tho iiHTt~asnd usP of outsidn troops, arms embargoes and targeted sandions against Sudan, and the prosecution of those who havn pnrpPtrated gnrHH~idn through th n iIll pIIHlW ll tation or th n lntnrnational Criminal Court. 
.John l'nmdnrgast, the former advisor to l'resi<hlnt Clinton on Mrka, spokn harshly of' thn apa­tlwtic international reaction to llw Ilarfur crisis, saying that the Unitnd Nations, the United States and others have used diplomatic ploys to skirt the rPal, compli<~at­nd decisions that they would haw bonn forced to make other­wise. 
"Thn international community dnlibnratnly portrays the situa­tions on thn ground as more eomplieated than they actually ar·n." said Pnmdnrgast. "It's a v•1ry deliberate, very spedfie way of' absolving yourself of responsi­bility in tho short-run, to say it's just too diflkult." 
Larry Minear, director of the Humanitarianism and War Project at Tufts University, declared the international humanitarian response particu­larly lacking. 
"I don't think then~·s anyonn in the humanitarian community that would call the oiTort robust," Minear said. lie said further that within approximately thn first 12 months of the conflict, only six percent of affected Darfurians had rnenivnd drinkable water from aid organizations and only eight percent had been given 

World Trade Center engineer discusses -work 
By JULIE BENDER News Writt•r 
Amidst a •~andlelit dinrwr in thn stadium pr~lSS box W1;dnnsday night. rPnowrwd structural Pnginenr Leslie l!ohPrL'ion trnatPd a snlnc.t group of .-nginenring stud1mL<> and proli1ssors to a lnc.turn Pntitlnd, "Tho MPrging of' Structural Engineering and Arl'hilndurP: A Short llistory of the llnsigns of l.es HobnrL<>on." 
l!obnrtson, whose structural dPsigns inrludn thn Wol'ld Trade CPntPr in Nnw York City, thn United Stales StnPI 11.-adquartnrs in l'it.Lshurgh and thn Bank of China Townr in llong Kong. began the tW<ming on a notn of' humility, mf'us­ing to tak<~ personal credit fi1r any of tim strueturns he dnsigrwd. 
"Thnsn structures aren't the work of' Mr. Hobertson but of a group of peopiP. People make great projoeL'i, not persons," he said as images of' some of' tho world's most notablo buildings f'lashnd on thn scroen behind him. 
Hobnrtson doesn't eV<m take 1:rndit f!1r his own humility, saying that it's what hn has learned from his work abmad in other cultures, especially in A'iian eountries where his work is highly nwnmd. 
"If tlwre's anything I've learned from working in the Far East, it's 
see ENGINEER/page 6 

The symposium listens as Frances Deng, former Sudanese ambassador to the United States, makes a point. 
food. 
Prendergast warned that the members of' the U.N. Security Council and others would have to spend rnal political capital in order to seeure lasting ehangos in the region. 
"What you see the Security Council, the United States and the Europeans doing on a n~gu­lar basis, you see them calling for cease-fires, rather than spncifi­cally owning up to the perpetra­tors, those who have perpetrated mass killings," said J>rnndorgast. 
The result of' this diplomatic maneuvering, Prendergast said, was in fact the implicit justifka­tion of' the Khartoum govern­ment's atrocities. 
"The message is unambiguous­ly dear to the killnrs, that thny 
see SUDAN /page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Kozlovv to serve as CEA 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
Taking tho fir·st stop in rr<~­ating their administration's tnam for next year, student body president-elect llavn Baron and vien prnsidcnt-eln<t Jjzzi Shappell havn nominated Liz Kozlow to snrvn as tlwir chin!' executive assistant. 
Baron, who is tho current CEA for student body presi­dent Adam Istvan and vice prnsident Karla Bnll, said he chose Kozlow for her work cthie and commitment to his campaign, for whieh shn sorvnd as campaign manager. 
"Liz's attention to dntail. hor cll'ort put li1rth until the job is aceom plished, her posilivP attitude and good-lwarted naturn made her JWrf'eet for tl11\ role," Baron said. 
Though Baron was certain he want<~d her li1r t.lw position. Kozlow said slw was not ox.Pneting t!w nornim.ttion. 
I wasn t. expndrng to he ollim1d this position," she said. "I thought I would ho in IWashin~-,rt.onl D.C. next. spring. but when they carne to nw and proposed CEA. I knew I want.nd to stay." 
Kozlow will bogin her term April 1, at which time Baron and Shappell will assumo tho student body presidency and vicn presidency. Kozlow, a sophomore living in J>asquorilla West, brings oxtnnsive student govnrnnwnt expnrinncn t.o thn post, <L'i woll as a elosn rnlationship with the soon-to-bn president and vke prosidm1t. 
"We worked with Liz all year on Senate and shn was 
sec CEA/ page 6 


ROTC regarded in positive light 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
h'ditor's note: This article is the second in a two-part series exploring ·the perceptions and realities of the ROTC program at Notre Dame and Saint Mary:<>. 
Despite the Catholic Church's opposition t.o the war in Iraq, Notrn Dame has maintainod a strong commitment to the Beserve Officers' Training Corps. and studenL<> and facul­ty say they hold the program and its participants in high regard. 
Professor David Cortright, a research fellow for the Kroc Institute for International P<mee Studies, said he b11linves Notre Dame is the ideal place for members of the armed forces to be oducated. For example, he said, many stu­dents in HOTC take a course called "War, Law, and Ethics" in the theology department, teaching them about ethical principles that apply to avoid­ing and minimizing harm to non-combatants, as woll as the Church's just war prindplos. 
"I think we want an armod forens imbued with the bnst moral values and best educa­tion on eritical and ethical issues," Cortright said. "We want our ollicers to bn abln to think critically -to not be robots in rnsponding to crisis, but to apply independent criti­cal thinking." 

While HOTC studnnts do par­tidpate in rngular activities, freshman Caitlin Hogan of Pangborn said slw has notieml something extra in lwr HOTC dassrnatcs. 
"I adrnim thnm; it rnquirns a lot of dedication," slw said. "Also, they always present tlwrnse lvos ol'f'ic ia lly and rnspodfully." 
Sophomorn Midmnl Crowloy said he was impressod by those in HOTC, noting that lw didn't quite have their stamina. 
"It's hard. They don't go out much and they havo to got up early," he said. "They have to join the !armed forcosl af'lnr 
sec ROTC/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, February 24, i005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Whatvvould you say it is you do? 
Lately I've been feeling an over­whelming urge to procrastinate. I'm sure we can all relate. Midterms and essays await me but the urge to pop in an episode of "The O.C." or search 
aimlessly through  
thefacebook.com  Steve Coyer  
seems much too  
tempting.  
Some people might claim they  Sports Writer  
never procrastinate  

and finish all their work promptly and on time. For the rest of us, we'd rather pull the all-nighter and not worry ourselves. So with apologies to Jeff Foxworthy, here's my top list of when "you know you're a procrasti­nator." 
10. You know you're a procrastina­tor when you'd rather watch Elimi­Date weekend in its entirety rather than starting that philo paper that you have due in two days. 
9. You know you're a procrastina­tor if you try to start a research proj­ect but don't even make it to the library after you remember that you could be doing nothing instead. 
8. You know you're a procrastina­tor if you put off until tomorrow what can be put off until the day after tomorrow just as easily. 
7. You know you're a procrastina­tor if you decide to start studying but then remember that later that night Walker, Texas Hanger will be on TV. Clearly, you're not going to pass up Walker. 
6. You know you're a procrastina­tor if you would rather watch Old School for the tOOth time instead of reading the 100 pages that you're behind in that literature class. 
5. You know you're a procrastina­tor if it takes you more effort to start a term paper ahead of time than it does to spend an entire day playing NCAA football on X-box. 
4. You know you're a procrastina­tor if you can type conversations back and forth on AIM that total thousands of words before you dare start that 500-word essay. 
3. You know you're a procrastina­tor if you've tried to start your work only to realize that it's Saturday and there was no reason to be working in the first place. 
2. You know you're a procrastina­tor when you make a promise to get all your work done on Thursday night but then remember that your mouth feels dry and you need to quench your thirst for an extended period. 
1. You know you're a procrastina­tor if you set out to finish your calcu­lus homework but instead decide to start a new club on thefacebook.com and tell all your friends about it. 
But there's still one more thing I forgot ... you know you're a procras­tinator when you can put off doing an assignment and in a strange way feel good that you did. After all, we're only young once and that paper on Socrates can wait until 3 
a.m. next week. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, midshipmen in Notre Dame's Navy ROTC program were mistakenly called "cadets" on pages I and 8 ofthe Feb. 23 edition ofThe Observer. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU THINK MARCH WILL COME IN LIKE A LION OR A LAMB, AND WHY? 

Tony D'Amico  Britt Kreiner  Greg Kilburn  Matt Murphy  Andrea Fuentes  Tim Smith  
grad student off-campus  sophomore Fisher  grad student Fischer Grad  freshman off-campus  freshman Walsh  freshman Fisher  
"In like a lamb. Lambs are cute,  "What kind of question is  "In like a lion, because my  "Like a lamb, so myfriends can  "Like a liger. It's pretty much my  "I don 't think. "  





fluffy and that?" birthday's at walk to my new 
warm, just like I like my weather." 
the end of apartment in March and I am T C. because I 
, 
a lion. got booted. " 


FRANCESCA SETNThe Observer 

Senior Tiffany Muller watches as a nurse prepares to draw blood from her arm during Wednesday's blood drive in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
OFFBEAT 
a tube of superglue for eye drops. 
The doctors at Angthong Hospital, 1 00 kilometers ( 60 miles) north of Bangkok, used a chemical solvent, acetone, to dissolve the glue in the monk's right eye, a hospital spokesman said Wednesday. The two-hour operation was done Tuesday. 
"His eye is not damaged, the right eye can see clearly after the operation and the doctors said the left eye also is not damaged," a hospital spokesman said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Dutch customs seizes ele­phant parts 
AMSTERDAM, Nether­lands -Dutch customs police have seized a ship­ment of African elephant body parts, including 22 feet, eight tusks, eight ears, three tails, a skull and an entire hide, officials said Wednesday. 
The cargo, originating in Zimbabwe and bound for Germany, was halted at Schiphol airport in October without proper licenses. The find was announced this week following an investiga­tion and will be permanent­ly confiscated, spokes­woman Anita Douven said. 
TODAY a::: 
African elephants are an endangered species and can only be shipped with special licenses, but activists noted that illegal trade in animal parts is a huge industry. 
"This is unusual-that there would be such a large fmd -but trade in ivory is sadly not at ·all rare," Rosa Hill of the International Fund for Animal Welfare said. Docs work on monk who glued eyes shut 
BANGKOK, Thailand ­Doctors have partially restored the sight of an 81­year-old Buddhist monk who accidentally glued his eyes shut when he mistook 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

LLI :::z::: 
LLI
:: ~ 
.... 

~ 
cc 
(,) 0
_. HIGH 30 HIGH 25 HIGH 31 HIGH 37 LOW 22 LOW 13 LOW 19 LOW 23 


favorite animal." 
IN BRIEF 
A blood drive will be held today in Rolfs Sports Recreation Center from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. To sign up call RecSports at 631­6100. 
Jason DeParle, a senior writer for The New York Times and the author of "American Dream: Three Women, Ten Kids, and a Nation's Drive to End Wolfare," will give a talk entitled "Welfare to Work: A Closer Look at a Diverse Population in Transition" from 3 to 4::~0 p.m. today in 102 DeBartolo. 
The 1962 film "To Kill a Mockingbird" will be shown at 10 p.m. tonight in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center as part of' the Spring ArtsFest 2005: Tolerance and Heconciliation. Call 631-2800 for tickets. 
Sean O'Brien will give a lec­ture entitled "Passive Resistance: Michael Davitt and the Positivist School of Criminology" from 3 to 4:15 
p.m. today in 424 Flanner Hall. The event is sponsored by the Keough Institute for Irish Studies. 
Karen Richman will give a lec­tured titled "Haitian Vodou: Arts, Culture and Religion" Friday at 3 p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art. 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams will participate in the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships Saturday from 8 
a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 38 HIGH 35 LOW 33 LOW 15 
Atlanta 50 I 38 Boston 27 I 16 Chicago 32 I 22 Denver 46 I 21 Houston 56 I 46 Los Angeles 66 I 50 Minneapolis 28 I 14 New York 32 I 24 Philadelphia 34 I 26 Phoenix 65 I 48 Seattle 56 I 38 St. Louis 46 I 30 Tampa 78 I 60 Washington 33 126 
ThursJay, February 24, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Weiner addresses eating disorders, body image issues 
had a name l'or what I was doing able pressure on individuals. She 
1\y KAREN LANGLEY loxnreiso bulimia!. and I know described America's "incredibly 
Nt•ws Writn that I wasn't alonn. That was an fat-phobic" eulturo, which allows 
amazing fooling," she said. dostructivn and rnstric:tive behav­
Student govnrnnwnl's Hating She noted tho tendency of ior to fall under the category of Disorders Awamrwss Wonk eon­womnn to express thnmsnlves in health. timwd Wndrwsday night with a tnrms of' body imagn rather than "Although I attnnded perf'orm­lt>durP by author and speaknr mnotions, noting that complaints ing arts schools, a big part of the .Jpssica WninPr. WPinnr's pro­about l'atrwss l'rnquontly stem problem carne simply from the gram. nntitiPd "l>o I Look Fat in l'rom otlwr concerns and prob­faet that I grow up as a girl in the This'! I )Pending tlw l.anguagn of lnms. world. This is the last acc:eptable Body llatrnd," ~~xplomd topics of' "Fat is not a l'enling. It is a bastion of discrimination in eating disordPrs, body imago and catchphrase and substitute !'or America. Who wants to be fat in sPif-Pstnnm through hnr own what wn arn fnnling. The emo­this country? Eighty percent of nXJH•ri<'rH·ns and those of ot.hnrs. tions w1~ can feel are things like elementary school children sur­
W1drH•r has spoken at eolh~gn happinnss, sadness and anger," veyed said they were afraid of 
•·ampusPs sincn slw was an sh1~ said. being l'at." said Weiner. urHIPrgraduatn and has tournd According to Weinor, eating dis­This culture of foaring fat and profpssionally for t1m ynars. ller orders represent an enormous worshipping health has created hook, "A Vnry llungry (;irl" was and undnrestimated problf11ll in oven more impediments to light­also fnaturPd on "Tlw Oprah thn United States. ing unhnalthy eating, according to have to be the one person in your weight to a Nnw York Tinws Winfn~y Show." "Wh ilo l 0 million women and Weiner. She notnd that research group who does not bow to self­roporter at the bottom point of 
;\r.conling to Wninnr. lwr strug­one million mon have a diagnosed for isolating a gene that could loathing body hatred," she said. her sieknnss, dndding instnad to glns with nat.ing disonJnrs began eating disorder, an estimated 25 inernase susceptibility to anornxia Weiner also emphasized tlw usn tnrrns that would not load to in rhildhood. Slw dnscribnd tho million pnoplo in total have some has been stymied due to lack of need for women to monitor the any comparisons by rnadnrs. dPwlopnwnt of lwr illrwss from form of an eating disorder," she l'unds, while thn American health exposure they allow themselves "I lik1~ my friends who d10osn to t.lw t.irno wlwn slw was a young said. " ... Anorexia is the number industry nets $80 billion each to tho media. She noted that no rnsonat.n fully in tlwir bodins and girl growing up in a homo of vnry one mental health disorder year. model, malo or female, roaches a thnir liv1~s," sht~ said. wnight-consdous parPnts. rnsulting in d(mth, as 20 pnrcnnt "Tho need to talk about this magazine eover without being Wninnr nwntionnd rnsourr.ns on 
"Tlwrn an~ tlm~n flavors of eat­of' thosn who struggle with this issue is prof'ound. Like many col­airbrushed and worked over by 1:arnpus fi>r individuals struggling ing disordnrs: anornxia. bulimia disease sueeumb to it. That is loge campuses, !Notre Darnel is an entire team of professionals. with nating disordnrs or anyorw and bingo oating," slw said. hundrnds or thousands of women an incredibly tough school, and "You arc not supposod to look who might. havn qunstions. Slw "Crowing up, I strugglnd with all nw~ry year." you all arn perfectionists. There is like her. She doosn't even look eitnd thn Univ1~rsity Counseling of Uu•n1. I startPd diot.ing with my Wninor also pointed out that incredible pressure on you," she like her," Weinnr said. Cnntnr as one vnmw for studnnL'i mom whPn I was nlnvnn. I eating disorders arn not limited to said. She advisnd students who have to lind support. Slw also nwn­lnarnnd how to count ndorins at only women or to only white According to Weiner, one of the friends sum~ring from eating dis­tionnd a campus group called A too young of' an ago. I was 14 women; Latina and bla1:k womon main ways to address tho issue of orders to rmnembor the impor­Lifo Uneommon, which mnets ynars old and PXPrdsing for f'our have shown hugo increases in low self-image is through careful tance of listening in a relation­Wndnnsdays at I) p.m. in room hours nwry day, but I hid it all." rates of eating disordors, she use of language. Words of' body ship. While thny cannot solve 31 h of' thn Colmnan-Morsn 
Wnirwr dnsrribml bottoming out said. hatred intensify tho problem dra­their friend's problem. she Building. during hf'r frnshman year in col­While physically-focused pur­matically, she said. While refusing explained that being thoro and "A l.ifn Uncommon is an inemd­lngn. only to Pxp•~r·innen an suits, such as dance and athletics, to spoak in terms of body hatred caring is oftnn tho best approach ible group. It has lwconw a Ppiphany wlwn shn witrwssnd may increase a person's chances might be dil'fieult, Weiner noted· to the situation. viabln, tangible prnsnncP on this ot.hor wonwn sharing tlwir strug­of dnvnloping an eating disorder, that it is essential to any soda! Weiner emphasized that no campus." shn said. glns with various problnms. Wninnr said, an overarehing cul­c:hange. person should be dnlinod in tnrms 
"It was a pinnadn turning point tural emphasis on weight and "Ghandi said to bn the chango of appearanee and numbers. Shn Contact Karen Langley at li11· mn. ;\t that momnnt. in timn, I body imago can create unbear-you wish to see in the world. You recently refused to reveal her kJangleJ@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 24, 2005 
STUDENT SENATE 
Representatives discuss postponing transition date 
and experienced representa-have experienced leaders in by student body president, vice director of Student Activities,
Changes to campaign 
tives would be given more time office for an extra month at the president and class council can­explained that the restriction's funding, election day in which to wrap up their end-end of their term, when produc-didates during the campaign. original purpose was to prevent of-the-year projects. tivity tends to be higher. Currently, candidates are per­voter intimidation when stu­
procedures debated Fisher senator Sujal Pandya Its detractors, however, said mitted to spend up to $200 on dents voted on paper ballots at opposed the change, arguing an extra month of preparation their campaigns, all of which locations in their individual that the new leaders need the for incoming representatives they must procure on their dorms.
By AMANDA MICHAELS month at the end of the year to was not necessarily beneficial, own. The final idea, to which no 
News Writer 
"get their feet wet," and that and cautioned that not every­"There arn kids on this cam­one voiced objections, proposed simply observing meetings for a one would take advantage of pus that want to make a that voting begin at midnight on 
Senators discussed student month docs not provide them the time anyways. change, and it's unfortunate election day rather than 8 a.m., government election and transi­an opportunity to do so. "Frankly, I came to three that they have to spend their to accommodate for abroad stu­tion issues at their meeting "Being in a meeting in April Senate meetings before I own money to get the chance to dents in different time zones. Wednesday night, focusing for entails that you're actually in became senator, but I still didn't do it," Leito said. In other Senate news: the majority of the time on the the job, working," Pandya said. know what I was doing until a Vice president-elect and + Senators Julie Pearce and prospect of pushing the transi­"It is important that you come few meetings after I took Badin senator Lizzi Shappell Agus Galmarini told the Senate tion day to a later date. to own the role before summer, office," Josh Pasquesi, supported the idea, saying that that during their discussion 
James Leito, Siegfried senator or you will lose momentum Morrissey senator, said. "At she knew many interested stu­about football ticket distribu­and member of the Committee coming into the new school least I had the benefit of being dents who declined to run after tion with the athletic depart­on Oversight, asked for the sen­year." able to go to the discovering the ment's director of ticketing Josh ators' opinions on a calendar Pandya also asked that the old senator for costs involved. Berlo, they learned that includ­that featured a May 1 transition senators take into consideration advice." President-elect ed in a new campus system
"It is important 

date -as opposed to the con­the opm10n of the Hall Debate on the and chief executive upgrade will be software that stitutionally-mandated April 1 President's Council, which has subject lasted for that you come to assistant Dave will allow students to purchase date -for all student govern­voiced its opposition to the date almost an hour, Baron, however, tickets online. Though this
own the role before 

ment bodies besides the change. during which no said reimburse­technology would not be in 
summer, or else

Financial Management Board Fisher Hall president Jacob consensus on the ment was unneces­place until the 2006-2007, and the Club Coordination Benedict was given the floor to best plan of you will lose sary. Pearce and Galmarini asked Council. He said he wanted to offer his assent to Pandya's action was "If you're going senators to see how their con­
momentum coming

assess the level of support for statement. reached. to run for office, stituents felt about possibly
into the school 

the measure before beginning "In Senate, a lot of your work "If our success you have to be will­purchasing football tickets over the tedious process of changing is done in meetings, but HPC is hinged on set­year. ing to sacrifice your the summer instead of in the all the dates in the constitution isn't like that," Benedict said. ting a calendar time, your effort fall. for presentation in resolution "The majority of the work is right, we have and even your + Student body vice president
Sujal Pandya 

form. done within the dorms, when bigger problems money, Baron Karla Bell said that U2's man­
Fisher senator

Leito argued that adding an the president is planning. You to deal with," said. "There are agers, Principle Management, extra month to current leaders' don't get your feet wet at meet-Vijay Ramanan, means and places had informed them that Bono terms and giving newly-elected ings, so an extra month would-chair of the out there already to and the band would not be able officials an extra month to n't prepare new presidents at Committee on Academic Affairs, provide for candidates who may to lit a stop in South Bend into observe would make the transi­all.·~ said in closing. not have the finances to pull the their spring tour schedule. tion process easier and more Proponents of the change said • The Committee on Oversight money from their own pockets." However, a campaign to get U2 productive. He also reasoned starting a new term on April 1 also presented three ideas The second idea was to take to come in the fall will continue, that new representatives would makes continuity of projects regarding election campaigning away the ban on campaigning Bell said. have more opportunities to during the summer break diffi-to solicit the senators' input. on election day. Most senators attend meetings before they cult, and it would be more ben-The first idea proposed a stood in support of repealing Contact Amanda Michaels at ~ themselves have to run them. eficial for the student body to reimbursement for funds spent the ban after Brian Coughlin, amichael@nd.edu 
~-----------t"l 
Legends? 
[Friday] [Saturday] 

Don't get it? 
www.nd.edu/~legends 









ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, Pebruary 24, 200'5 Cotv1PlLED FROM TI·lE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page '5 
==========~===============================================================----~ 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Queen's absence fuels speculation 
LONDON -Buckingham Palaeo says ()LHHm Hlizahdh II won't bn attnnding hnr son's wndding to knnp the oeeasion "low kny." 
htt r.hanrn. 
"()twnn's angnr at wedding shambles," said London's I•:vPning Standard nnwspapnr on W•~drwsday. whiiP Thn Sun hnadnd its eovnr­agn "Hoyal homhshnll." 
Among royal watdwrs and wndding organ­izPrs alike, thPro was agrnnnwnt that thn impn•ssion of slipshod planning, a hint ol' qtlnPnly disapproval and lingnring qunstions owr thP civil rnrnmony's lngality worn tip­ping tlw coming nuptials ol' Prineo Charles and Camilla l'arkPr Bowlns toward fan~e. 
''I'm actually quit•• shorknd," said Emma Pattison, din•ctor of Zen Jo:vents, a firm ol' wndding planrwrs. "Thny don't snnm to havn thought it through al. all." 
Leader signals willingness to resign 
BUBUT, l.nhanon -Lebanon's pro-Syrian prinw minist.nr said Wndnnsday hn was will­ing to n•sign in an nl'l'ort to eontain growing angPr at his gowrnnwnt and Damascus ovnr tlw assassination ol' l'ornwr Primo Ministnr Halik llarirL 
PrimP Ministnr Omar Karami made tho of'fpr to stPp down in a rwwspapnr intnrvinw. "I am rnady to rnsign on mndition that wn agrPn on a nnw gov<~rnmnnt in ordnr to avoid falling into a constitutional vacuum," hn told lhn daily An-Nahar. 
Karami said hP will snnk a vot<~ of conli­dnnrn in l'arlianrnnt. on Monday. whnn law­makPrs mnPI to discuss llariri's assassination irr a f!PIJ. 14 bombing in Bnirut thai also kiiiPd I h othnrs. Tlw dnlmtn was rnqtu1stnd by opposition l1~gislators. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Prosecutors say man not tortured 
Wi\SIIINGI'ON -A Virginia man aeeusnd of plotting with ai-Oaida to kill Prnsidnnt Bush should bn lwld indnfinitnly, fmleral prosecutors said Wml11nsday in court filings that also rPjndnd his contnntion that hn was tortured whil1~ Judd in Saudi Arabia. 
AI. a rou rt lwa ring a day earlier in Alnxandria, Va., 2:~-ynar-old Ahmed Abu Ali om~n~d to display scars 011 his baek as proof that lw was tortumd by Saudi authoriiins. In l.lwir filing WE"dnnsday, prosncutors said. "Tiwrn is no crPdihln nvidnneo to support thosn •·.I aims." 
Abu Ali rwwr eomplairwd about his trnat­mnnt during snv('('al meetings with an Amnrkan diplomat in Saudi Arabia, according to thn filing. Mornovnr, an Ammiean doetor nxar11irwd him Monday and found "no evi­dPru·n of' physical mistnmtnwnt on thn defen­dant's hark or any otlwr part of his body." 

Govt. will pay more medical costs 
WASIIIN<;TON -Within a dnradn, tho gov­PrlllliPnt will lw footing thn bill for rwarly hall' t.lu~ nation's nwdiral eosts, its share pro­pnllnd higlwr by tlw rww Mndicarn drug pro­gram. admi11istration economists nstimatod Wndrwsday. 
At Uw samn iimn, total health spending ­both privatn and govnrnnwnt-will take an nvnr-largnr portion ol' i\nwrica's economic output, said tlw rnport from thn Cnntnrs for Modir.arn and Mndicaid SPrvicns. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Zoo sees rare captivity birth 
I'OHT WAYNH -Visitors to tho Fort Waynn C:hildrn11's Zoo will bn treated to a raro sight wlw11 it opPns for tho snason April 30: a baby stripml possum. 
It is bnlilwPd to bn only thn sixth striped pos­sum horn in captivity, said Elaine Kirchner, zoologist and supnrvisor of the zoo's i\ustralia Altnr Dark exhibit. 
"It's adorabln," Kirchner said. 
Zookoopnrs first discovered tho birth in I>1H:nmh•~r during a routinn physical on Alkira, a female striped possum, Kirchner said. 
-_-_·--=---~~-­
IRAQ 



Interim leader challenges pick 
Countering Shiite alliance, prime minister Allawi builds coalition to protect his job 
Associated Press 
B/\GIID/\1> Ayad Allawi, tho sHcular interim prime minister, said Wednesday hn's putting together a coalition to try to hold onto the job in the next government and block tho candidate of tho domi­nant Shiite political alliance. Kurdish parties also weighed in with demands f<>r top posts, set­ting up a possible show­down over the roln of reli­gion in a new Iraq. 
Allawi's call for an inclu­
sive coalition that would 
attract minority Sunni 
Arabs who Ji:mn thH core of 
tho insurgency came as 
support for Ibrahim ai­
Jaafari, the leading Shiite 
candidate. began slipping 
in his United Iraq 1\llianee. 
One day after ai-Jaafari, 5H, was nominated for tho post of primn minister by the dergy-baeked allianco, a Shiitn political group that supports his one-time chal­lenger, Ahmad Chalabi, threatened to withdraw its support. 
The Shiitn Political Council demanded that tho alliance make amonds allor foreing Chalabi to end his pursuit of tho prime minis­ter's post by nominating one of the eouneil's mem­bers for the largely cen~­moni<tl post of Iraqi presi­dent. 
But the Kurdish coalition eontrolling 75 of tho 275 seats in tho National i\ssembly has long taken for granted that the alliance, which has 140 seats, will give the prosi­deney to one of their load­nrs-Jalal Talabani. 
"Hegarding the nomina­tion for the presidential post, no names wern pre­sented offieially and we are running nonoflkial discus­sions with all parties, espe­cially with th1-1 Kurdish olli­cials hero in Baghdad," ai­.Jaafari spokesman Abdul Hazaq Al-Kadhimi said. 
The Kurds also issund a separate list of demands that include reinforcing autonomy in their northern provinces. 


!\ two-thirds majority of the assembly is required for approval of tho presi­doney -the first stop in a complicated proeoss or fill­ing the top positions. What this boils down to is that fin· al-Jaal~lri to become prime minister, he must win tho approval of his own Shiite allianee, including Chalabi's supporters, and an addi­tional 44 legislators. 
Mueh is at stake. 

Tho next primn ministor will oversee the drafting of a now constitution, and some fear al-Jaafari could lead Iraq toward an Islamic theoeraey, or oven a strictly seetarian Shiite one. Allawi, AI-Jaafari is onn of tlw Chalabi and the Kurds interim governnwnt's two oppose nfforts to eodify or vieo presidnnts and !wads legislate religion. Dawa, a consnrvativn 
1\llawi, whoso tkket won lslamie religious party. lin 40 seats in the assembly, fought Saddam llussnin said hn considered ai­and took refuge in Iran for Jaafari an "honorabln a dncadn in tlw 1<JHO's, man." But when asked if he wlwn Shiit.n clergy solidi­feared that the alliance lind their ruin in Iran. eould imposo lslamie rule In forming his nnw eoali­in Iraq, i\llawi said he tion to unsnat al-.laafari, opposnd the creation of any Allawi asked the Sunni form of Islamic govnrn­i\rab minority, which most­ment. ly IH>Y•~otted tho Jan. :~o 
"We arn libnral powers nlndions, to play a role in and we bnlinvn in a liberal tlw now govnmnwnt. Such Iraq and not an Iraq gov­a movn could go a long way erned by political Islamists. toward helping dnllatn tho But as a person hn is an insurgency, mostly thought honorable man, lighter and to bn mad•~ up ol' Sunnis a good hrothor," Allawi who oncn bnlong•~d to said. Saddam's Baath party. 
States rebuke education overhaul 
Associated Press 

WASlllNCTON -State lawmakers issued a scathing rebuke or Presidont Bush's education overhaul on Wednesday, calling it a coercive, unconstitutional aet that sets an unreachable goal of getting every child up to par in reading and math. 
The National Conference of State Lngislaturos wants changes in the fundamental parts of tho No Child Left Behind Act: how student progress is measured, how schools are punished if thoy fall short, and who decides whnn the rules are waived for struggling districts. 
Overall, the proposal would give states significantly more power to administer the law. 
i\s a bipartisan statement from all 50 legislatures, the report is signil'i­eant for its sweep and tone, undor­seoring tensions over whieh level of government has final say over edu­cation. Schools are traditionally a state matter, but tho federal role bas grown much more aggressivn as Bush and Congress have ordered higher achievement among all stu­dents. 
The new report contends the law leads to unintended consequenees and that the federal government is indifferent to them -the lowering of aeademi•~ standards, increasing segregation in school, and thn driv­ing away of top teachers from needy schools. It claims tho governnwnt is also violating the Constitution by eonn~ing statn eomplianen. 
Hnpublican state Snn. Stnvn Saland of Nnw York, eo-chairman of the task !'oren that rovinwnd thn law, .eompan~d it to a "wood" that has stifled statn innovation. Co­chairman Stnve Kolloy, a Domoeratie statn sonator from Minnnsota, said tho fmloral govern­ment is right to target the aehi•wn­ment gap among poor and minori­ties hut wrong to meddln with the states. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 24, 2005 
Eddy 
continued from page 1 
commercial development up to the "Five Corners." 
"You're not going to get a Gap, a Banana Republic, something like that. We might get a small bou­tique, some restaurants, a Pottery Barn, maybe a bookstore," Aflleck­Graves said. 
He also said that the townhouses would be independently owned and the apartments would not be marketed din~ctly to students. 
'This won't be like Turtle Creek," Affieck-Graves said. 
llakanen said that the University's role in the process would entail selling the proposed land to developers and not choos­ing retailers. 
"It's up to developers to engage the tenants," Hakanen said. 
According to Hakanen, the idea to develop emerged from Notre Dame officials' increasing dissatis­faction with the area immediately surrounding campus. 
"The University watched, with growing dismay, the deterioration of the neighborhood," Hakanen said. 
While Notre Dame's initial response was to acquire available property, Hakanen said a formal planning process began about three or four years ago along with the foundation of the Northeast Neighborhood Redevelopment Organization. 
The NNRO, whose members include Notre Dame, the two hospi­tals, the Madison Center and the city of South Bend, incorporated actual residents while planning the new district, Hakanen said. 
"It was important to get their input and approval in the actual process," Hakanen said. Consequently, he said, "there shouldn't be surprises [in the com­munity] about tl1is." 
Both Affleck-Graves and llakanen said that finding a devel­oper for the project would not be diflkult, a statement supported by the high turnout at presentations pitching the project one month ago in Chicago and yesterday in South Bend. 
Afllnck-Graves said the new dis­trict would be appealing residen­tially for a variety of reasons. 
"I think many people want to live near campus," he said. "For young people, it's a good place to be, especially with the commercial dis­triet -South Bend doesn't have ~ny~~ing like that. That's attrac­tive. 
The timeline for the project will depend on how quickly developers eomn1it, said Affieck-Graves. 
"We would like this to begin pret­ty aggressively," he said, noting that the site would be available in July or August for development. 
Students said they were pleased with the announcement. 
"I think it will definitely have a good impact on the eommunity," senior Amy Kern said. "It'll turn South Bend into more of a college town, and maybe decrease the sep­aration there seems to be between South Bend and the rest of the city." 
Kern said she hopes to see coffee shops and "some kind of laid-back places where students can just hang out, read or whatever." 
Freshman Matt Detwiler of St. Edward's Hall agreed the district would benefit students. 
"I think it is good for the students because it will encourage them to leave campus," said Detwiler, who said he wants to see new cafes and clothing retailers. 
However, Detwiler pointed out that the district would not be close for all Notre Dame students, and that he hoped shuttle service would inerease to the new destination. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


ROTC 
continued from page 1 
graduation. I would never want to do it." 
Other students commended the ROTC program as a whole. Stanford Hall sophomore Patrick Cain said he liked ROTC since it "provid[es] an added incentive" for those interested in defending the ot:mntry: 
Sophomore Dan Sportiello said he admired the economics of the program, calling it a "simple exehange of tuition for military service," but also said he believes some "are only in the program because they have no choice," due to financial constraints. 
According to Cortright, there has been an ongoing dialogue of monthly meetings between ROTC commanders and Peace Studies staff members since the Peace Studies program was established in 1986. During these "informal" dialogues, Cortright said, discussion has surrounded concerns relating to contemporary peace and security issues. 
"We often find we don't differ that much in opinions ... a number of the officers share the same skepticism and con­cerns about U.S. policy as we the Peace Studies professors," Cortright said. "We definitely feel there are ways in which we share perspectives and ways in which we can learn from each other." 
Sophomore Andrew Yi said that despite his anti-war senti­ments, he has "great respect" for the program and its partici­pants. 
"I am grateful for their sac­rifice and courage," he said.# 
Cortright, though, stressed the need for such a program, even on -or especially on ­a Catholic campus. 
"Unless we are advocating an absolutely pacifist position, as long as there is an army, it's better for it to be led by officers trained in ethical principles, who have a broad­er understanding of civilian values," Cortright said, "and who therefore will be more reflective of the society from which they come when they are out in military service." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 
Engineer 
continued from page 1 
that you must be humble," he said. " ... you learn about a culture through reading and through listen­ing and experiencing what is around you, not by expecting people to listen to you." 
Highlighting many of the structures he has designed for construction, Robertson spoke in detail about the design process and the complications engineers must deal with. Robertson said the goal of his company -Leslie E. Robertson Associates, R.L.L.P.-is simple structures with robustness. 
"We build redundancy into our buildings, allowing them to remain standing if something should go wrong," he said. "We design so that if you take a tress out of any of our buildings, the building will continue to stand." 
Though the World Trade Center was not the focus of this lecture, Robertson touched on the subject towards the end of the evening when questioned on the modern obstacles of structural engineering. Robertson said the Trade Center had actually been designed to withstand impact with low flying air­craft but, due to the speed and size of the planes on Sept. 11, the towers could not remain standing. 
Robertson stressed, however, that engineers should not change their designs to be able to with­stand the impact of high-speed planes. Robertson recalle·d that in the weeks following Sept. 11, engi­neers were questioning him about how to re-design their work in case of a terrorist attack. 
"To me this is a non-issue," he said. "We should be spending our money on trying to make peace with the Middle East, not spending it on tactics for homeland security." 
Robertson, who has received several honorary degrees for his work -including one from Notre Dame in 2003 -closed his talk by stressing the educational development of young people just start­ing out. Showing the designs of both undergraduate and graduate students, Robertson gave words of encouragement to the young engineers in the room. 
"Everything you see and touch is engineered," he said. "To be a good engineer it is important that you be yourself, be frank with the people you collaborate with and know the fundamentals of engineering." 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@~d.edu 




Bruno's Pizza 
2610 Prairie Ave. South Bend, IN 46614 514-288-3320 
AFamiiV Tradition Since 1915 
MO WEEKS Cf IAUg(* f!UA.f lli&\11[. AND DISCUSSION OlPARTAUJH OF FU TELEVI· EAUf PRESENTS 
}~IC·<····••·•··••·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
THE LARAMIE PROJEG  DUD MAM WAlliNG  
&Y M01sES DtiJit&M  &Y l.fA IOOBI!tS  
ruuam ev AMtcfi JW.ti  omm BY su~U sc.on ANn JAY smtou  
0£00 MA!r#SiKE llell!  NtLSIN: STUDIO JMQTl£  

E~ tt-··-1811\lJI.'il········ ffMIJM !6 ~-OJ 2 
TICKSSSi2, ~Hi fMtm~Tm» $10 SEI410RS, $3 AU Ihtl~8 m.miet cfNatttw«S•b lltmllfn~km!(f i~i» ~ humisitl!tt ~ ~~•J~• 
······· ·~~·tul~~l'~hmi~ Md'octtdyf!trt tnli ~tOO m'·lllJK!WJOO VII! 
;-~~¥ofoft!nt~t ~·!flf.~-~->1-~· 
• 
Accepting reservations for Graduation 

• 
Book any size party 

• 
Seating available for 2 to 100 

• 
Student discounts 

• 
Every Tuesday, Thursday Student 


Buffet Pizzas, Pastas, Salad 
• Visit us at brunospizza.com for di counts 

FAMll~ Sl0SfNIORS, S8 AU. ~TOOEMTS 
vb¥ e;phte:~!hembmt~ !Etwwna rw ~ttr; crowat limn!hem,'$~JJ 00.1!lidwtk.-. 
CEA 
continued from page 1 

one of our campaign managers," Baron said, calling her "a leader and a friend." 
Following Uw approval of her non1ination by the Council of Representatives, Kozlow will assume the role of communicator, advisor, organizer and coordinator for Baron's admin­istration. Kozlow said she is confident in her abilities to meet these extensive expectations, but she noted that Baron's shoes would be hard to fill. 
"If anything intimidates me about filling the position of CEA, it's following Dave and trying to aehieve the same !ugh standard he has set for the position," Kozlow said. 
Having served as Istvan's CEA this year, Baron admitted the job is demanding. 
In past years the CEA has been responsible for all press releases and publicity for the administration. This year, however, Baron and Shappell have created a new position whose chief role will be that of a communicator. This decision reflects Baron and Shappell's slogan calling for "One Student Voice, Eight Thousand Strong." Baron said he hopes the new position of director of communications will help to bridge the gap between the stu­dent body and their government leaders. 
Baron said he believes Kozlow's unwavering determination to complete goals will allow her to redefine the role of CEA and guide it in a new direction. 
"I have a preconception of what the role of CEA is, but Uz will change the position by her personality and her dedication to put forth the necessary amount of efTort until the job is accomplished," Baron said. 
Echoing the platform of Baron and Shappell, Kozlow said ereating unity will be a common theme in all her work as CEA. 
"We want to unite the students and make a significant impact in improving student life," Kozlow said. "When I think we've done that, I will be pleased." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Thursday, l;ebruary 24, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,785.22 +30.96

}ones 
"'' 
Same: Down: Composite Volume:
Up: 'V1,217 126 I ,545,531,008 

AMEX 1,501.57 +3.80 NASDAQ 2,058.62 -2.72 NYSf 7,287.47 +14.97 S&PSOO 1,201.59 +0.84 NIKK£l(Tokyo) II ,65 I .02 0.00 FTSf IOO(London) 5,060.80 +3.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I 00 TR (QQQQ) -0.32 -0.12 37.35 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.65 +0.39 24.02 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0,66 -0.17 25.48 SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW) +0.24 +0.01 4.16 CISCO SYS INC (SUNW) -0.86 -0.15 17.30 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND 0.00 0.00 46.44 I0-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 42.60 5-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 38.55 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 25.52 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0. 79 49.0 I GOLD ($frroy oz.) -0.20 428.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.00 84.98 
Exchan Rates 

YEN I 05.5600 EURO 0.7656 POUND 0.5273 CANADIAN$ 1.2661 
IN BRIEF 
Consumer inflation shows increase 
W/\SIIINCTON -Consumer priens, lwlped by a sneond monthly drop in energy eosts, wnrn wnll behaved in January, but a weaker dollar and incrnases in erude oil priees this month c~ould rnnan troubln alwad. 
Thn Labor Dnpartnwnt rnportml Wednnsday that its Consunwr Prien Index odgnd up a tiny 
0.1 pnrcnnt in January after having bnen frown with no chango in Doeembnr. 
Bot.h months worn hnlpod by big dnelinos in nrwrgy costs, hut that situation is nxpneted to rnvnrso in Fnbruary and Mareh as a rebound in world erudP oil prices hits ;\mnriean eon­sunwrs. 
Sornn analysts projnelnd that nnergy costs could push llw Fnbruary CPI up by as much as 0.(, pnrccmt with March consumer prices pro­jnrtnd to surgn as well, rnflnr.ting thn l'ad that crudn oil prkns have elimbnd above $50 per barrnl again. 
Analysts arP also worriml about tho impact tlw U.S. dollar's lhrnn-ynar dnclinn against otlwr currnneios will havn on inflation, givnn the n~corcl lcwnls ol' importnd consurnnr goods ;\nwricans an~ buying. 
Late starters can still save nest egg 
NI\W YOHK -Many Americans know they havnn't savnd cmough for rnlirmnent and, apparnnlly eonvineml it's too latn to catch up, do nothing about it. 
Frc~nzing like a denr caught in oncoming hnadlights isn't going to solvo the problem. What's nnnded is to start immediately setting asidn sonwthing-anything-to fund retiro­rnnnt, finandal nxpnrts say. 
Thn main rnason that Americans, especially haby boornnrs, haven't put fmough away for rc~tirnnwnt is that tlwy'vo been living beyond their means, said financial planner Alan llavir, who works at ;\halos & Associates in Phcwnix. 
"II' you'rn 45 or 50, and you haven't saved or you haven't saved enough, you have to seri­ously look at rndueing your lifnstyle," hn said. "You havn to spend less than you narn. You havn to slop spnnding your retirnment money today and start to save and save and save." 
That's tough advice to follow, but llavir IHdinves pPopln can do it if' tlwy take the time to imagine tlw lifo they want in retirement. 
Defense calls on whistleblower 
Woman testifies against former WorldCom chief accused of accounting fraud 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Lawyors for former WorldCorn Inc. ehief Bnrnard Ebbers began mounting a defense Wednesday, calling as their first witness the woman credited with blowing the whistle on WorldCom's massive aceoun ting fraud. 
Cynthia Cooper, tho for­mer head of internal auditing at WorldCom, told jurors that auditors at Arthur Andnrsen gave a. "groen light" rating to the company's accounting f'or 2000 and 2001. 
In 2002, Cooper alerted the board of directors to irregular accounting prac­tices. touching o('f' the scandal that eventually sank WorIdCom. Coo per later shared in Time mag­azinn's Person ol' the Yoar award. 
Shc·l tostilied af't.er feder­al prosecutors rested their ease against Ebbers, who is aecusAd ol' ovorsoAing tho $11 billion accounting fraud. Tho government callnd 14 witnnsscs over 16 days of testimony. 
U.S. District .Judge Barbara Jones denied a dnfense motion to elear Ebbers on all nine counts against him. Defense lawyers routinely make such a motion after prose­industry rules. plans to called Ebbers nnss, former WorldCom cutors rest their ease. Cooper, who now runs himself as a witness. eontroller David Mynrs, 
Defense lawyer Brian her own consulting busi­Defense lawyers also said Ebbers once apolo­lloberlig argued the gov­ness, testified that want to call three former gized to him in a hallway ernment had not proved WorldCom l'inanee chief WorldCom executives as for what the aecountants criminal eonduet because Scott Sullivan did not men­witnesses, but have been had been forend to do. it failed to show lion "anything uncomfort­told those witnesses will A former Bank of WorldCom 's books violated able" about company plead tho Fifth Amend­America account manager generally aeeepted accounting when he ment, presumably worried also testified about tlw accounting principles, attended a 2001 audit they might be prosecuted $400 million in pnrsonal eommonly known as GMP. committee meeting. for what they say. loans Ebbers took out, 
While tho govornmont Sullivan himself testified Jones denied a motion backed hy WorldCorn stoc~k could conceivably have that by that time, he had Wednesday to grant immu­and latnr shorcld up by offered such nvidenee, "We already told Ebbers he nity to those thren witness­guaranteos from submit that was a f'ailure thought it was wrong for es, but said she will eon­WorldCom's board ol' of proof on this critical ele­accountants to make sider the issue furthnr. dirnetors. ment," llobnrlig told the adjustments to hide The government's case Tho government eon­judge. expenses and falsely boost rests heavily on Sullivan tends Ebbers, worried 
.Jonos ruled the govern­revenues. who testif'ied that Ebbnrs about margin calls on the ment had only to prove Cooper was to return to ordered him to "hit our loans, was obsessed with WorldCom made false the witness stand numbers" -a rmnark he keeping WorldCom's share statements in its linaneial Thursday morning for said he interpreted as an priee high and producing statements -not neces­more testimony. The instruction to carry out the revenue and earnings lig­sarily that they had violat­defense team has not said onormous fraud. ures that pleased Wall ed specific accounting in open court whether it Another government wit-Street. 

Travelers not dismayed by prices 
not deterring vacationers who arc buy­smallor players also report strong
Associated Press 

ing tickets at a rapidly growing pace -demand. 
MIAMI -;\lisa Skulpong considers extending the industry's rebound from "I think pnoplc arc~ gonnrally filnling herself pretty savvy about bargain the recession and Sept. 11, 2001, ter­optimistic about the neonomy. It's bncm vacations. So when she started looking ror attacks that devastated the travel nice and eold across tho country, which for a seven-day eruiso to Alaska this business and forced eruise operators to always encourages people to take a summer, she expected to pay around slash their prices. About halfway !cruise! vacation," said Andy Stuart. $1,000, the amount she spent two through the heaviest booking quarter NCL Corp. Ltd.'s exncutivn vice presi­years ago. of the year, cruise lines say they are dent of marketing, sales and passenger 
Skulpong was in for a surprise; the making roservations even faster than serviens. NCL operates Norwngian trip now eosts $1,400, even through in 2004 despite the higher prices. Cruise Line, NCL ;\meriea and Orient bargain retailer Costen Wholesale Passengers are inching closer to Lines. Corp. spending as much on tickets and Travel agent Jon Canino said his 
"If you're looking for a specific cruise extras on board as they did during the dienl'> still seem willing to pay an extra itinerary, you neod to book 10 months boom times of 1999 and 2000, analysts $500 or $1,000 li>r the same trip they to a year in advance to get it. It's hard said. Carnival Corp. & pie, the world's took a year or two ago. to get what you want at the price you largest cruise company, had its most "They question why it's higher, but it want," said the legal assistant from Los profitable year ever in 2004 and doesn't deter them," said Canino. a Angeles, who bookod the trip anyway. expects to do better this year. No. 2 cruise expert at llebron Travel in 
Cruise prices arn dimbing, but that's Hoyal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. and lll~bron, Conn. 
r 
I I page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 24, 2005 
Sudan 
continued from page 1 
can kill whoever they want without consequence to their actions," he said. 
Instead, Prendergast said, the United States and others should acquiesce to the authority of the International Criminal Court, whieh would investigate human rights abuses in Darfur and bring perpetrators to justice. 
What makes the diplomatic sit­uation in Darfur so sticky is that any meaningful international action requires the support of all five permanent members of the 
U.N. Security Council -the United States, France, Britain, Hussia and China. Although Prendergast, like the two other speakers, is in favor of targeted economic sanctions and the increased use of international peacekeeping troops in Darfur, he said four out of the five per­manent members of the Security Council are currently supplying arms to the Sudanese govern­ment and directly or indirectly profiting from Sudan's crude oil exports. The result of this, he said. has been a lack of real eco­nomic sanctions and a weaken­ing of the legitimacy of the few African Union troops currently on a peacekeeping mission in Darfur. Prendergast said the troops merely "have front row seats to the carnage," but are unable to do anything to stop it. 
However, Juan Mendez, special advisor to U.N. Secretary­General Kofi Annan, said that recently African Union troops have been given more jurisdic­tion to keep the peace in Darfur, to "protect people in imminent danger." 
Under the old mandate, A.U. troops were allowed only to doc­ument the Darfurian carnage. Nonetheless, Mendez said that even the new mandate is insuffi­cient, and like Prendergast, agreed that there was a tremen­dous need for more peacekeep­ing troops to protect Darfurian civilians. Such protections are most critical in Darfurian refugee camps on the Sudanese/Chadian border, where women, leaving the protection of their make-shift shelters, are at high risk of being raped by Janjaweed marauders, Mendez said. 
A Darfur issue that looms large in the coming months is an impending famine in the region, quite likely because little to no planting has taken place since the conflict began almost two years ago. Jan Egeland, the U.N.'s emergency relief coordina­tor, said this week that as many as four million Darfurians are in danger of starvation in the com­ing months. 
Another topic that recurred throughout the symposium was the issue of whether or not the crisis in Darfur should be consid­ered genocide. 
Mendez discussed the U.N. Security Council committee that 

STUDENT OPEN SKATE FRIDAY FEBRUARY 25, 2005 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
JOYCE CENTER ICE RINK 
Open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary•s students. 
Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more information. 
Baristas • Cashiers 
Apply at the George CraigTravel Plaza (mile marker 90 on the IndianaToll Road. open 24 hrs). For directions. you may call (574) 970-1517. 
HMSHost is the leading provider of food, beverage, and retail concessions at nearly 200 travel venues. We offer: Health & Dental Coverage • Tuition Reimbursement • Competitive Starting Wages and bonuses for mgmt. positions • Full-time and Part-time hours • Paid vacation and sick time 
• Profit-Sharing or Pension plan based on position 


traveled to Darfur to investigate whether or not accusations of genocide were correct. 
"It did not find a policy of geno­cide in the Sudanese govern­ment," said Mendez. "But it is still possible for a court to find certain Sudanese government officials guilty of genocide, although that would have to be done }n a separate criminal court. 
Francis Dong, the symposium's third speaker and former Sudanese ambassador to the United States. put the genocide issue in perspective, saying that although the U.N. has not official­ly declared that genocide had been committed, it has said that war crimes on par with genocide had taken place. Deng concluded that the language used to describe the crisis was less important -if something on the level of genocide had occurred, the international community had a responsibility to do something about it, he said. 
Moreover, Deng continued, the 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
OEI'AIITMhNT Of' MUSIC 

Khartoum regime has used the U.N.'s statement as a shield, declaring themselves inculpable since what happened was not officially declared genocide. 
Echoing the sentiments of all the speakers. Mendez said that a solution to the crisis in Darfur would require a number of actions taken together. 
"We need a package of meas­ures," he said, "not simply sanc­tions, not simply strengthening the African Union, not simply employing the International Criminal Court. But with a com­plete package, with all of these taken together, we might just be able to save some lives." 
Deng lectured primarily on the deeper cultural roots of the behind the violence in Darfur, explaining the complex role that race and ethnicity have played in the bloodshed, both recently in Darfur and in the southern part of the country. 
"What is happening in Darfur is part of a struggle for the soul of the nation," he said. Deng went on to say that the current Arab I black African dichotomy is a new one in Sudanese history and that the real differences between the two groups are few -that foreigners would have a difficult time differentiating between those called Arabs and those called Africans. 


Deng traced the source of this racial distinction to British colo­nization of Sudan in the 19th century, when the British govern­ment irrationally tried to divide the nation culturally in to the Arab North and non-Arab, African South. The result of this separation quickly caused a tense hierarchy to develop, with those considered Arabs being considered generally superior to those considered native Africans, he said. It is along these artificial lines that tensions between Arabs and non-Arab Africans have developed in Darfur, Deng said. 
Contact Michael Busk at mbusk@nd.edu 
DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 

Saturday, February 26, 2005 8:00p.m. 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra Notre Dame Chorale Notre Dame Glee Club Notre Dame Litt1rgical Choir Notre Dame Women's Liturgical Choir 
with faculty soloists 

Carolyn Plummer, violin Karen Buranskas, cello John Blacklow, piano 
Mozart: Overture to Die Zauberflote Beethoven: Triple Concerto Haydn: Harmoniemesse 
Leighton Concert Ha11 Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts University of Notre Dame 
Admission $6; ND I SMC faculty I staff $5; seniors $4; students $3 
Thursday, February 24, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
11 vou are looking to uet involved with on campus events, lake alook at what Student Union Board has to onerl Right now. SUB is currently accepdng applications for the SUB Executive Board. 
·-:;;.,~ .. 
Positions Include: * 
* 

Director ot PublicitY * Director ot Operations 
* 

* Director of Programming* Chief Controller 
• Each of the executive positions is similar to an internship in marketing, event planning, human resources, and accounting, respectively. Further descriptions of each position can be found on the Executive Board Application. 
This Is agreat wav to have an Impact on student life at Notre Dame while leamlng the Invaluable skills of leadership, teamwork. and dme management. 
Not only is a position on the SUB Executive Board an extensive learning opportunity, it is also A LOT OF FUN. From movies to concerts, comedy shows to hypnotists, SUB has it aii~ ...J;njoy your time at ND by making it more fun for your fellow students. Join SUB!! Applications for the Executive Board can i>e found on the SUB website (sub.nd.edu) or can be picked up from the Student Govt Office (203 LaFortune). All SUB Executive Applications are due 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28 to 203 LaFortune. 
Please consider this excellent oppportunltv to uetlnvolvedl 
1 

• _1. 1· ' ~:,ul If· tl.; .J ·:~·~L\. ;111 j!td~~ 

BP Meal Auction: New Orleans Style TONIGHT 
Beginning at 7:00 LaFortune next to Burger King 
Pint Course~ 7:00pm SecotufCourse, 8:15pm 
Dr. Gail Walton & Andrew McShane Mr. Chuck Lennon 
Professor Tom Guglielmo Dr. David Moss Dave Baron and Lizzi Shappell Mike Dury and the Baseball Guys Members of the Mens Swim Team Members of the Women's Swim Team Kevin Corrigan, Men's Lacrosse Coach Ms. Anne Nappoli, Badin Rector 
Professor Kristin Lewis Ms. Candace Carson, Welsh Fam Rector 
Professor Bradley Smith Ms. Becca Davidson, BP Rector Kyle Chamberlin, JV Leprechaun Karla Bell, Student Body VP The Freshman Soccer Girls Dave Rooney and Steve Mattingly The ND Cheerleaders Sarah Ball, BP President Br. Jerome Meyer, Knott Rector Liz Tran, BP RA Sr. Sue Bruno, PW Rector Cory McDevitt, BP Asst. Rector 
Matt Russo and Sheldon Dutes Professor George Lopez 
John Lyons, Mr. ND Mr. Ken Dye, Band Director Cheron Wilson, Ms. ND Greg Dalby and the Soccer Boys The Sophomore Soccer Girls 
fJ'Iiird Course, 9:00pm 
Mr. Bill Kirk Professor Anre Ventner Professor Cunningham Mariel Zagunis Brady Quinn, Ambrose 
Wooden & John Carlson 
... 

The Junior Soccer Girls 
Professor James McKenna Ms. Chandra Johnson Father Mark Poorman Father Theodore Hesburgh 
Silent Auction Featuring Gift Certificates from Local Restaurants from 7:00-9:30 pml Performances by The Solid Underground at 7:45, and The Irish Dancers at 8:451 .. 

TI-··1 EOBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 
Thursday, February 24, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Let the movie credits roll 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lazar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter 

CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(57 4) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Marys College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials tepresent rhe opinion of me majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the aud10rs and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qtmtiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt LoZtlr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oh~rver (USPS ~99 2-4000) i~ published Monday through FridJy o:cept during cx:~m md vaCltion periods. A s-ub.>etiption w Tht: omerve!t i.~ $100 fur one aUldemic ye~~r: $')5 fUr 1111e St:JJK'$tcr. 
Th.: Observer is publi~hed at: l'OSTMASTER 024 Somh Dining" H.1ll SCfld address corr«:doru to: l'otrt Dame.IN 46556-0779 nu~ Observer Ptriodial vo~tagc p.aid o~t Nat!( Dame r.o. Box n9 and addition;~] m:tiling otlim. 024 Sou1h Dining Hodl 
Nmrc Dame, IN <i6556-0n9 
The OhM!tvet i~ a member of 1ht Al>s.ociared Prt:S~>. AU reproduction right$ arc rc.erved. 
This Sunday the 77th annual Academy Awards will take place, and if I had a vote for Best Picture, it would go to the acclaimed "Million Dollar Baby." Confidently directed and beautifully shot, the film manages to bring moral serious-Peter Wicks ness to the table with­out threatening to Englishman become a cinematic op-Abroad ed piece. It is, in short, a film for grown ups -a rare thing in Hollywood these days. 
When a good movie comes along, the achievement should be acknowledged, lest the species become extinct. 
Of the three key performers, Hilary Swank will doubtlessly garner the most attention. She gained 20 pounds, all of it muscle, to play a female boxer. Changing body type for a role has been fashionable ever since Robert DeNiro beefed up and won an Oscar playing Jake La Motta. 
The psychological appeal for the audi­ence is hardly mysterious; movie stars earn obscene amounts of money, and we like to know that they suffered for it. 
Swank does a fine job, as does Eastwood, but in my opinion, Morgan Freeman's performance is what makes the film work. 
"Team America: World Police" has not been nominated for anything, which is hardly surprising given that many of the people who were the brunt of the film's jokes will be sitting in the good seats at the Kodak Theatre on Sunday. 
It is sometimes said that celebrities are America's aristocracy, and many of them certainly seem to have developed a sense of noblesse oblige. 
The problem is that when film stars get involved in politics, they often give the impression that they have cast themselves as members of the Rebel Alliance taking on the Galactic Empire. 
The results are usually embarrassing, and sometimes detrimental. In 1972, Jane Fonda toured North Vietnam, denouncing tortured American Prisoners of War as "hypocrites and liars." In an infamous radio broadcast, she suggested that Richard Nixon should read Ho Chi Minh's 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
poetry. Barbarella, it's safe to say, was truly out of her league. 
Similarly, when actor Sean Penn spent time in Baghdad and announced that the best solution to Iraq's problems would be lifting the trade sanctions rather than deposing its tyrannous ruler, we ean safely assume that neither Iraq's mass gravesites nor its torture chambers had been fea­tured on his guided toirr. 
Stars are easily duped not because they are stupid-although Alec Baldwin won't be winning the Fields Medal for his work in advanced physics any time soon -but because they are vain. It is that vanity, that Messianic self-importance, that Team America mocks so effectively. 
Matt Stone and Trey Parker are perhaps the only film-makers who could get away with tllis, because they are perhaps the only major American film-makers whose commercial success does not depend on the stars themselves. 
One theory, auteur theory, treats a ftlm's director as the analogue of a novel's author -in effect, as its sole creator. William Goldman pointed out some time ago that in order to hold this theory, it is necessary to have no knowledge about how films are actually made. 
There was, Goldman wrote, only one American director who could justly be considered an auteur, since he served as his oWn producer, cinematographer, and editor, and produced work that displayed a unique vision of the world. 
That director was Buss Meyer. Goldman had a point; anyone familiar with Meyer's oeuvre-a body of work that indudes Vixen, Supervixens and Beneath the Valley of the Ultra vixens -cannot help but be struck by its thematic unity. 
In fact, one could randomly interchange scenes of any of Meyer's movies without them making any more sense. 
Meyer died last year, and Stone and Parker have inherited his mantle, if not his penchant for homicidal go-go dancers. They write, direct, produce and even voice their own work. They just might be Hollywood's only auteurs. 
Sadly, most of Team America's reviews never got past the question of where the creators of South Park stood on Bush's 
War on Terror. 
(Note to critics: if you complain about the increasing polarization of the political climate in the United States, and then after watching a film in which puppet celebrities are eaten by real cats, your first question is "Which side are these guys on?," then you are part of the problem.) 
A film which should transcend partisan politics is "Hotel Hwanda," which has deservedly received nominations for its screenplay and both ofits key perform­ances. 
Based on the true story of a Hutu hotel manager who managed to protect over a thousand Tutsis during the Hwandan genocide, it's a devastating film to watch, as well it should be. 
In Rwanda, the few U.N. troops on the ground were instructed to keep the peace, but forbidden from firing a shot. The Tutsis sheltered in the hotel survived, but by the time the .nationwide slaughter ended, the collective death toll approached a million corpses. 
Watching the film, it is hard to believe that the world stood by and allowed the massacres. 
Right now, in Darfur in the Sudan, the Sudanese government and militias are engaged in ethnic cleansing. 
As in Rwanda, a relatively small interna­tional force could stop the bloodshed, although their capability to deter violence would require that they be permitted not merely to carry guns, but to use them. 
Hegarding Hwanda, people often say that genocide took place willie the world looked on and did nothing. But that isn't right, for we did do something. We looked away. And we have no right to be shocked when this Sunday, as the killings continue, most of us will be watching the stars. 
Peter Micks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. Peter can be con­tacted at pwicks@nd.edu. More informa­tion about the situation in Darfur can be found at www.savedarfur.org. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Eileen Duffy Pat Leonard 
Do awareness weeks really raise 
Jen Howling Mike Gilloon Maddie Hanna Matt Wormington awareness on campus? Viewpoint Scene Caroline Murphy Kenyatta Storin 
Graphics Illustrator Vote by today at 5 p.m. at Kelly MacDonald Katie Knorr www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"J said to the man who stood at the gate ofthe year, "Give me a light that I may tread safely into the unknown." And he replied, "Go out into the darkness and put your hand into the hand ofGod. That shall be to you better than light and safer than a known way. " 
Louise Haskins English Poet 

Tl-·IE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, Ft:bruary 24, 200'5 page I 1 
Need no credit card to ride this train 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Proud to be a transfer student 
I would lik1~ to respond to the implications made in "True Life: I'm a transfor studnnt" in Tuesday's ndition of tho Obsnrver. I am offended that tho perspoctivn oll"ered in this artide gives the impression that all transf{ws are thosn who didn't got in to the University the first time around. This fi1sters tho stnrnotype that they wernn't good enough, or an• less worthy of the hard-working reputation Notre Dame students have. 
I was rn1:mJtly convorsing with a fellow transfer studnnt who refer­nneml our transfer orientation luncheon. When one of the Admissions ollkers woh~omnd us by asking, "Whern have you been all year?!", t.hn studnnt had mumblnd, "You didn't let us in!" Although this may be tlw snntinwnt among somn transfer stud1mts. it is not applicable to all. 
J transli1rrml last fall. but not as a result of bning previously rejeet­IHI. Hatlwr, I had appliml narly doeision to a small liberal arts school rwar my homn on the East eoast. My decision to come to Notre Dame was a rnsult of tho rnalization that I had ehangnd, and the school I d10sn in high school no longer lit my academie needs or my eharae­tnr. 
Tlw aforenwntionnd spoaker also told us that al'tnr orientation, we would no longnr nond to introdueo or think or ourselves as "trans­fnrs." In rntrospeet, maybn this was only a suggnstion as their way of saying "try to lit in ... I know tho presumptions made about transfers." 
But personally thinking that transfnrring was a result of growth and rwed f(Jr chango, not a rnlleetion of insuiTidency, I thought it nwant wn wore as much a part of the Notrn Dame family as those who were hero bofiJr11 us. 
I am not ashanwd that I am a transfer student; in raet, I f'eel unique in tho 1wrspnctivn I bring, having expnrienced another eollego, to a Univnrsity most p11ople have wanted to attend since they were five. I considor myself lucky that I discovnrnd a wonderful sdwol in my search for dmngn. I was only disappoint1~d to sne the transfer student sternotyp1~ perpetuatod; wn arP hnre now, and regardless of how we did it, that should h1~ all that mattnrs. 
Katherine Hayes Junior Howard Hall Feb. 23 
U-WIRE 
Applying science to love 
The Weather Girls harmonize, "It's rainin' men ... It's rainin' men I every specimen I tall blonde dark and lean I rough and tough and strong and mean," in one of the last groat anthnms of the disco era. 
The lyrics lead me to believe 
Rebecca 
that one of the girls must havn 


Miller 
experienced what I like to call The Pack Phenomenon (TPP). Ohio State She probably went lor months, University perhaps even years, without a The Lantern man in sight -not a single prospeet-and trapped in a voritable dating desert. 
Onn day, she fell in Jove, and the herd instinct took over. Suddenly, in the middle of her Sahara, "It's rainin' men." My TPP theory, arrived at by carefully condudPd, eompletnly unscientific research, is that men are highly evolved paek ani­mals. Thoy are capable of smelling female desper­ation from 14,000 miles away, but able to deftly perceive the scent of contPntedness from a world­wide radius. 
Therefore, when a woman falls in love, she becomes the irresistible target of the entire bunch. fmmndiately, her phone starts ringing. There's the 3 a.m. eall from her ex-boyfrinnd, the call from the erush she's had for two years, and, invariably, calls from every guy who has ever asked for her num­ber. From near and far, they eome out of the wood­work. I know TPP happens; I have both observed and experienced it. 
However, my largnst question remains unan­swered. I low does the word get out? Smoke sig­nals? My l~tvorite hypothesis is that being in love muses a supersonic SOS sign (She's not Single) vis­ible to [(Jrmnr and would-be suitors. My postulation explains the phone calls, but boeomes problematic when other factors are considered: Campus eat­calls, random run-ins with gorgeous hunks and truck drivers' abject admiration, to name a few. 
I eonduded there must be something more that makos a woman in love glow like a Lite Brite in a dark doset: The Boyfriend Brilliance 1\flilet (BBEI. According to my rationah1, the BBE gm1(~ratns 
luminescent confidence. This eonfidnnt glow is what compels previously passivn men to action; it catalyzes Tho Pack Phenomonon. (DisdairnPr: I do not have any data regarding rnvorsal ofgnndor roles, but I think wn can sali~ly assumn tho invnrsn is also true). 
Attempting to bend my theories into logical analysis, I lookod to tho business school. Supply and demand had a lot going for it, but rnlation­ships arn diflir.ult to eomparn to eomrnodities. I was sadly disappointed with probability and statis­tics -apparently my porcnivnd caus11 and nll"net is labeled an unrolatod eorrnlation. Biology e.xplairwd physieal attraction, but defining the nlnment that turns a dowdy dame into a glamour girl still nludnd me. Frustrated, I discarded intnllignnt invnstigation and pondnrnd the million-dollar idea or botl.ling tho Boyfriend Brillianee !Ul"eet-sort of a man-rain danee in pill form. Utterly impossible ... or was it? 
I reeogniz!~d in my hurry to analyzn, I had filrgot­ten to even consider psycholo1,ry's phu~nbo 1111E~et. In ease you aren't familiar with it, the plaeobo oll"nct oc.eurs when you takn a pill believing it to bn !1m~c­tive when, in fact, it is simply a sugar pill. Hns(~an~h (the rna!, seientilie kind) shows that tho consP­q uences of simply bnlioving in a trnatnwnt arn pro­found. It might bn impossible to bottle the intangi­ble omlets of being in love, but bnlinving that you exude a high level ofglowing conlidenco and snlf"­contentment-despito c.urnmt rnlational status­could quito possibly have tho same end rPsult (TPP), with no boyfriend rnquiwd. So dust oll'your sense ofself-reliant spunk and sen what the uni­verse sends your way. Let it rain. 
This column originally appeared on Feb. 23 in The /,antern, the daily publication at /.he Ohio State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of11w Obsemer. 

Much likn my musn and nnw pnrsonal hnro, Charlie WPis, I'm a bott.om-linn guy. 
Tlwn1's no room in my world for frills and orna­nwntalion; just givP nw tlw basics, ploaso. I'm a man who likns his ~~ol'fno blark. his bluo-books blue, and 
his burgnrs dnlirious. Bob 
I havn no tolnranrn for shad11s of' Masters gray or any dnsirn to muddln in tho rnushy-rnouthod middln ground. I I Fall On The don't try to ~~all both sidns of tho Noor 1\nd I roin or to hav11 my cakn and nat it, /,aughing too. l.iko a voritabln .John Wayrw, I pick onn sidn or tlw othnr, and don't. look baek. 
I want nin1, simpln onn-to-mw eorrospondPnens in my lifo; yns or no, good or bad, up or down, Huben or Clay. 
With nw, things arn hlaek or white, not sonwwhere in-lwtwPml. Basie, plain and simpln; that's what I likl1. 
or roursn, tl!lderstand that I'm not talking about applying this barn-honns philosophy to mattnrs of lii'P, lovP, t.a.xns or politics. No, I'm directing my lllll~omplirat.Pd nthos toward tlw walls of ()'Shag and thl' rash of l'inrePiy romp11lilivo advnrtising that tlwy'vn spawrwd. 
You ran imagirw how painful it is for a man of my straightforward, pia i n-.larw tastns to walk down thn normally stPriln rorridors this time of yoar. Bright, I'Xr.iting post11rs havn crawiPd out of tho woodwork virtually ovornight. 
On your avorag11 day, f'vn bonn taunted by sprawl­ing hot-pink bannnrs with dark silhouottns of beauti­ful women. f'vp lwnn nHH'.kod by long-dead litnrary ligurns urging mn to lnarn their native tongue. I've s1wn 11ntir.ing photos of oxotie locales-all of thnm urging mo to spnnd a sm1wster studying in the placns of drnarns-Homo, Dublin and Florida Statn Univnrsity. 
Tlw.sn aiTronts to unadorned, old l'ashiorwd taste haw all lwnn carried on in amazing, blinding, enrag­ing Tnchnicolor. 
Whilo tlw Student Adivities 01'11ee may approve just about anything thosn days, tho Bob Masters OfTicn of Postnr Endorsnment only likes two ads. We rneornmnnd that tho romaining hundreds of neod­lnssly colorful postor·s bo romovnd immodiatnly and replaced with good old fashionod pen and ink. 
The first ad that may rnmain features Mr. Worl' from Star Trek. This advert, as I understand, was sponsored by the Dopartment of Klingon Studies as a way to increase enrollment. in their Introduction to Alpha Quadrant Language Systems course offerings. Not only does this rate highly on my Handom Star Trek Hofcrencn motor but it's also printed in soothing black and white. SoH stays. 
y1w se~;ond po~,tor I ap~rove 
of ts tho Love Is advertrso­
rnont sponsored by the Notre 
Dame Hight to Life club. This 
ad struck me for two rea­sons. First, it's in beautiful 
black and white, mueh like 
Mr. Worl' and much like the appealing simplicity I've argued for earlior in this 
1~olumn. 
Sncondly, tho background of tho poster contains absolutely boa.utiful poetry that I strainod to rmtd onn nvening whiln stopping to admire the ad's effortless clo­gance. For the reeord, Star Trek and pootry arn about tho only things I do indnnd approve 0 f. 
Since I've recently hirod a fact­checker for my column, this postor had a bit morn surprise ynt for me. I've discovered, after closer examina­tion ot' the "Love Is" poster, that the Hight to Life group was not quoting a Shakespearoan sonnet, as I had originally assumed. 
The seleetc~d ruminations on what love is featured in this ad are actually the words of Saint Paul in his first letter to th'l Corinthians. 
In 1 Corinthians 13, Paul states that love "suffereth long, and is kind." Furthermore, love "beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things." And. Paul adds, whiln tlw virtues of' faith. hopo and lovo always rnmain, "tlw grnatest of' these is love." 

I'm surn all of' us havn bn(m reminded of' Paul's touchingly beautiful assessmnnt of' love at various points in our lives. l know it was a popular sPlndion for the readings at many of' !.hose all­school Masses wn'd attnrHI twkn a week at St. Matt's. Bul. thorn was sonHlt.hing thnrl' 
in the basie, blar.k and whitl', simple prnsnntation of tlw "Lovo Is" postPr that made 
Saint Paul's words 11VCil morn poignant t.his timn around. Contrastml against l.lw sna of' 
gaudy attention-snnking ads, Paul's thoughts-in nonchalant whitn lntt.Pring -stood solidly on thnir own nwril., without twnd of artifkn or drnssing-up. 
Hal.lwr, thn natural beauty of' his inerndibly ponl.ir articulation or love shone 
brighter t.ha.n any hot pink placard nvnr eould. But that's just nw. I remain 
a rnalist. I understand some need the stimulation of neon colors, lasnr light shows and 
ear-shattering sounds l.o get a point. That's why I'm dosing this column 
with an endorsnnwnt of lluey Lewis l'or Commenenmont speaker. Those to whom Paul's simple graces arn 
lost will hopnl'ully got. the sanw idea, morn or less, from roekin' out to "The l'owm of' Love" at maximum volumo. 
Bob Masters is a senior Hnglish major. Ih• can be contacted at amasters@nd. edu. The 11iews expressed in this column are those l~/' the author and not necessarily those of I hl' Obsertl('r. 
THE OBSERVER 






CENE


page 12 Thursday, February 24, 2005 
ALBUM REVIEWS 

Ludacris coasts but still satisfies 
By KENYATTA STORIN Assistant Scene Ediwr 

Another Ludacris album, another million sold. At this point, Ludacris eould probably come out with a folk album and it would still fly oil' the shelves. 
Ludacris' latest platinum album, "The Hed Light District," is not all that dill'erent from his past work, but that is not neces­sarily a bad thing. Although Ludaeris' songs are always rather simple in scope ­think money, partying, women, marijuana, etc. -more often than not, his distin­guished, charismatic llow and knack for coming up with sharp, witty one-liners more than make up for his lack of original eontnnt. 
While l.udacris is not the best rapper out thPre, he is certainly onn of the wittiest and funniest. 
And he is never one to take himself too seriously, as shown on "Number One Spot," wherH Ludacris raps to a remix of the "Austin Powers" theme, spouting refer­ences to the movie with lines likP, "Causin' lyrical disasters, it's the master I Make musie for Mini-Me's, models and Fat Bastards," while also taking the time to take a shot at Bill O'Reilly, "IIi Mr. O'Hoilly! I Hope all is well, kiss the plaintill' and the wifey." Although "Austill Powers" jokes an~ a bit dated and cliched nowadays, Ludacris makes the film references sporadically enough to pull them olf without becoming annoying. He shows he caii be serious every now and then too, like on the intro­spective "Child of the Night," where he raps, "It seems like the whole world is out for sinkin' my boat I But with God as my navigator I'll be stayin' afloat." Ludacris is also impressive on the chill, fm~l-good jam "Spur of the Moment," the Timbaland-pro­duced "The Potion" and the old school "Virgo" with Nas and Doug E. Fresh. 



"The Hed Light District" also benefits from good production from not only big­name producers like Timbaland and Organized Noize ("Blueberry Yum Yum"), but also lesser known ones like The Medicine Men ("Get Back") and Polow Da Don ("Pilnpm' All Over the World"). This is a nice improvement from Ludacris' last album, "Chicken-N-Beer," which sutl'ered from mediocre production by no-name pro­ducers. 
Unfortunately, there are still tilnes when Ludacris' charisma cannot overcome his banal content, like on tracks such as "Put Your Money," a forgettable song with DMX about gambling and "Two Miles an Hour," an uninteresting song about cars. 
However, by far the worst cut is "Who Not Me," which features horrible rappers Small World and Dolla Boy, along with a dull, uninspiring verse by Ludacris hilnsnlf. 
Like most successful rap stars, Ludacris has lost some of his edge and drive over the course of his career. He still boasts and brags that he is one of the best, but as evi­denced by tracks like "Who Not Me" and "Put Your Money," he does not put his all mto every song. And although he is usually clever and humorous, the lack of originality ii1 his song content prevents "The Red Light District" from being as good as it could have been. That being said, it is still enter­taming, and fans of his past albums hopmg for more of the same will get exactly what they are lookillg for. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 

Legend has solid studio debut 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Assisram Scene Editor 

Alicia Keys and Lauren Hill have some new competition, but it is not from anoth­er female artist. No, this is a fresh face of H&B and hip-hop. John Legend has grown in popularity in the past months following the release of his first album on Columbia records, "Get Lifted." The album has been a moderate success both commercially and critically, but it deserves all the praise it receives. 
"Get Lifted" is an even mix of slow and fast R&B songs with a touch of hip-hop and a bit of soul. Legend's textured voice covers a vast vocal range and his strong sense for melody and music composition is consistently shown throughout the 14 songs on "Get Lifted." 
Legend has always had big plans for his future. This is most obviously shown by his choice for his last name, which was formerly Stephens and has since been changed to Legend. An English major from the University of Pennsylvania, Legend spent nine years as the music and choir director at Bethel A.M.E. Church outside Philadelphia at one point early ill his career, according to his Web site. Legend speaks of his musical formation ill the context of gospel singing. 
"I always loved the feeling when people responded to my singing and playing, so I was already making little gospel records in high school," he said. "I was ambitious and just loved being onstage." 
"Get Lifted" shows the spectrum of Legend's musical talent. The first half of the album is generally faster, with more of a hip-hop feel. A couple of songs show­case this hip-hop element more than oth­ers, particularly "Number One" (featuring Kayne West) and "I Can Change" (featur­ing Snoop Dogg). Although those songs are the heaviest in hip-hop influence, they are also two of the best songs on the album. Conversely, some of the remaining best songs on "Get Lifted" are ill the sec­ond half of the predommantly slow songs. "Ordinary People" and "Stay With You" are both slow songs that basically feature Legend and a piano, and those two ele­ments are entirely enough to constitute musically, lyrically and melodically strong songs. 

While the balance between Legend's ability to create both fast and slow R&B is clear on the very balanced "Get Lifted," one of the high pomts of the album comes in the very soulful, "It Don't Have To Change" (featuring the Stephens Family). Backed by the voices of his own family, the gospel and soul sound of "It Don't Have To Change" makes it a stand out song on "Get Lifted." 
Lyrically, the album is above average. Legend falls into the trap of cliche lyrics at times, such as in "Alright," a faster song on the album when he sings, "Good Lord, you got body for days." At other points in the album, Legend redeems himself with stronger lyrics such as in "Refuge (When It's Cold Outside)" when he smgs more philosophically, "You know and I know I Friends come and friends go I Storms rise and winds blow I But one thmg I know for sure ... " and he goes into a description of a relationship that comes from a much deeper place than a "body for days." 

Not every song on "Get Lifted" is great, such as the weaker "Alright" and "Let's Get Lifted Again," but the album is cer­tainly a strong beginning for any artist. Legend may have some areas to ilnprove, but overall "Get Lifted" is a solid album with a unique male R&B sound. He's no legend yet, but he just may be on his way to becoming one. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 



llBRIGHT 
THE Q[)SERVER 




CENE

Thursday, February 24, 2005 
page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Duo fashions sublime carnival of kitsch-pop 
By MATTHEW SOLARSKI Sc,·rw Mu,ic Criric 
Multiply two quirky songwritl~rs by lhrnn languagns. and one arrives at this -lhP sixth full-lnngth from Bt>rlin-hasPd pop culture mavnns StPrno Total. Tho duo, comprised of ostPnsibln husband-and-wife Franeoisn Cadus and Bn~wl (;ol'ing. has b111H1 churning out albums of charming, 
infnetious electro-pop at an alarming rate since 1995. Ston~o Total's latest, tho slyly named "Do the Bambi," proves a delightful addition to this lin­eage. 
Simply put, this is a ridiculously fun record, rife with hooks, grooves, key­board flourishes and all the touches that mako pop musie, well, popular. 
Cactus' sultry voeals flirt with tlw porky instrumentation, soamlessly transitioning from German to Fronch 

to English and back again, sometimes within the same song. The English lyrics admittedly have that slightly-ofT­beat quality that of'tnn surfaces wlwn non-natives approach tho language, but this s1~rves as yet another part of the charm of "Bambi." In fact, tlwy an~ frequPntly dover, such as when Cactus writes ofT her penchant for nudity by daiming, "it's just my birthday suit." 
lndood, soveral of tho tracks horn dabble in surprisingly sophisticated lyrical subject matter that belies tho hook and bolls and whistlns underlying it. "Orange Meeanique," for instance, culls elements from tlw soundtrack to Stanley Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange," together with a snleetion from Anthony Burgoss's text and fash­ions them into a spooky-oven danee­ablo-throc-minutn pop ditty. And not onn but two of tho snloetions on "Bambi" draw their inspimtion from .!nan Luc-Godard's twisted 1969 invoe­tive against mass culture. thn film "Wonkend." On yet another track, "Cinnmania," Cactus treats listeners l<l a cinnphilc's laundry list. at one. point rhyming Julie Christie, Jaequos Tal.i, Warren Beatty and Visconti. And onn eannot help but dnlight in thn telling assonanen of thn pithy "EuropP, Nourotie." 
Making its donwstic start on indiP micro-label Bobsled Hncords, basNl out of mini-nwtropolis Aurora. Ill. fol' "Way1w's World" fanw, among ol.lwr distinctionsl, StnrPn Total's idiosvn­rratie brand of mirth PVnntually foi1nd l.lw ears of thn Vt'lwrablt~ Kiil Bork Stars label. ThP o1w limP honw of Slnatnr-Kinnny, Bikini Kill and otlwrs, Kill Hoek Stars rnlnasnd thn stellar "Musiqtw Automal.iqun" in 200 I aurl now "Do thn Bambi." 
"Bambi" is addled by but onn major misstPp -a ratlwr wrntdwd numhPr 1wstnd in thn vnry cnntnr of tlw opus, "Hungry!," which fnaturns a gtwsl. "rap" by llawnny Troof and an obnox­ious bap-ba-dah •~horus. "Hungry!" is just atrocious mwugh to ehip a half­shamrock of'f an ol.hnrwisn sublimP rncord. <;raeiously, in this ago of TiVo and iPods. onn ean skip "Hungry!" and rnv1d in "])o thn Bamhi"'s nightnPn othnr gPms. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 


Oscar diversity at a peak 
Associated Press 
fllark comedian and Oscar host-to-be Chris Hoek wnfnsst~d rnenntly that he had stddom watclwd thn Academy Awards, Pxc~npt in 2002 whon hn tunnel in to snn tlw historie triumphs of' Hallo Bnrry and I>nnznl Washington. 
"Conw on, it's a fashion show," he said half-jokingly in a magazine intnr­viPW. "What straight black man sits tlwrP and watrlws thn Osr.ars? Show nw o1w. And thny don't. rnr.ogn izn r.om­ndy and you don't Sl'l' a lot of' blaek pnopln nominattHI, so why should I watrh it'!" 
This ynar hn is not only watehing but. hosting a show in whieh a record num­ber of minority ~wrformnrs are vying for t.op honors. 
l'our blaeks -Jamie Foxx, Don Cheadle, Morgan Fnwman and Sophie Okonndo -and a Latina actress, Colombian nativo Catalina Sandino Moreno, have arnassnd a total of six nominations. 
i\nd "Hay," lhn biographical drama about soul rnusie legend Hay Charles, is tho f'irst f'ilrn with a predominantly Afriean-Amnriean east to be nominated as bnst pieture since Stnven Spielberg's "The Color Purple" two de1~ados ago. 
i\ut.hor George Alexander, whose hook "Why We Make Movies" explored tho work of black filmmakers, said this ynar's nominations rdleet tho long­overdun strides blacks have made in I lollywood since llattie McDaniel broke thn Osear eolour barrier in 1939 with her Academy Award-winning support­ing role as Mammy in "Gone with the Wind." 
"Wn're seeing that actors who have enormous talent but who pnrhaps had­n't had the opportunity to be leading men, have stepped up to the plate and gottnn those opportunities, like Jamie Foxx," Alnxander told Houtnrs. 
Mornover, black actors arc being rec­ognized this year for pHrl'ormances in overtly heroic rolos that transcend raco. 
Foxx, tho first African-American to garner two nominations in a single ynar, is considered a favorite to win the host actor prize for his title role in "Hay," playing tlw legendary musieian who overcame blindness, bigotry and drug addiction to boeome one of' America's most bolovnd entertainers. 
"We have been so flooded with so many nngative things in our communi­ty." Foxx told the London Timos. "For sonwthing positive likn this to happen it makes thoso kids and everybody just say, 'Man, maybo I can do it like Jamie Foxx did."' 
Foxx in good company 
II' he wins, Foxx would be only tho third black namod best lnad actor, fol­lowing Sidney Poiticr for tho 1963 film "Lilies of' the Finld" and Washington thnw years ago for "Training Day." 
Foxx also picked up a nomination as best supporting actor for playing a kid­napped taxi driver opposit.P Tom Cruise as a eontraet killer in "Collateral." 
In tho race for best actor, Foxx faces another black performer nominated for a breakthrough leading role, Cheadle, who in "IIotel Rwanda" plays a real-lifo hotel manager who helped save some 1,200 people from mass murder. Okonedo, a British-born neweomer of Nigerian descent, earned a nod as best supporting actress for playing his wife. 
The nominations of Foxx and Cheadle for best actor mark only the second time in 77 years of Oscar history that two blacks are competing in that cate­gory at the same time. Washington and Will Smith went hoad to head three years ago. 
llegardless of who wins this year, the Oscar attention aecordnd Foxx and Cheadle is likely to thrust both first­time nominees to the Hollywood fore­front. 
Meanwhile, veteran actor Freeman is hoping to finally take home a statuette from the fourth Oscar bid of his career, a nomination for his supporting role as the elderly manager of a boxing gym and the voice of reason in Clint Eastwood's "Million Dollar Baby." lie was previously nominated for roles as a pimp in "Street Smart," a chauffeur "Driving Miss Daisy" and a prison inmate in "The Shawshank Hodomption." 

The lone minority actress up for an Osear this year is the previously unknown Sandino, making her feature film debut as a drug mule in the Spanish-language drama "Maria Full of Grace." 
Hacial diversity has been slow in coming to the Osears. 
It took 10 years after McDaniel's tri­umph for a second black performer even to be nominated -Ethel Waters for tho 1949 raeial drama "Pinky" ­and nearly a quarter of a conlury for Poitier to win his landmark Osear for "Lilies of the Field." 
Only six Oscars have gone to blaek aetors sinee then, and no more than throe had benn nominated at once before now. 
Part of that is a function of limitnd opportunitios in Hollywood for blacks, who were long been rnlegal.nd to elownish parts in eomcdies or to menial and criminal rolos in dramas. 
Blacks have also fared far worse behind the canH~ra at the Academy Awards. Only onn, .John Singleton, has been nominated as best director, for "Boys N the Hood" in 1991. 

It's Morning 3) M83-Before The Dawn Heals Us 4) ALOHA-Here Comes Everyone 5) BEN FOLDS -11 Landed" [single] 
Thursday, February 24, 2005 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Sixers acquire Kings' Webber in six-man deal 
Thomas, Williamson, Skinner dealt from Philly to Sacran1ento 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPIIIA The Sacramento Kings traded Chris Webber to the Philadelphia 76ers late Wednesday night, parting ways with the corner­stone of their renaissance in a stunning six-player deal that dramatically reshaped both teams. 
The Sixers acquired Webber, one of the NBA's elite power forwards and a five-time All­Star, along with reserve for­wards Matt Barnes and Michael Bradley. Philadelphia sent for­wards Brian Skinner. Kenny Thomas and Corliss Williamson to the Kings. who finally divest­ed thflmselves of Webber's mammoth contract after years of rumors and speculation. 
Geoff PPtrie, the Kings' presi­dent or basketball operations, acquired Webber from Washington before the 1999 season in a deal that trans­formPd Sacramento into an interesting. contending team. ThP Kings then re-signed Webber to a seven-year dPal worth approximately $127 mil­lion in 2001. 
Webber has played exception­ally well in recent weeks, aver­aging 21.3 points, 9.7 rebounds and 5.5 assists per game _ though he isn't the athlete he was bPfore undergoing serious knee surgery following the 2003 playoffs. 
"The message that we're sending is that we went out and got a player who's averaging 21 and 10 to go along with our young players," Philadelphia president Billy King said at a news conference late Wednesday night. 
After scoring 30 points in the Kings' 114-104 win over Atlanta on Tuesday night, Webber acknowledged the annual uncertainty over his future with a shrug -but the forward, who has three years and $62 million lert on his con­tract, clearly didn't believe he was about to be traded. 
"It's something I live with," Webber said. "It gets very old, but there's nothing you can do about it. If I believe everything I read and everything I hear, I'd be on an emotional roller-coast­er." 
Though both Webber and Peja Stojakovic denied rumors of a rift between Sacramento's stars, Stojakovic demanded a trade from the Kings last summer for unclear reasons. 
The Kings had no intention of granting his request, but Stojakovic -the NBA's second­leading scorer last season ­hasn't been the same player since Webber returned from surgery last season, looking tentative and deferring to Webber on offense. 
King was looking to make a deal to improve the Sixers' frontcourt as they make their playoff push. The Sixers are 26­27 and just a half-game behind Boston for first place in the Atlantic Division, and Webber's pairing with Allen Iverson should be one of the Eastern Conference's most potent duos. 
The Kings have the NBA's sev­enth-best record at 34-20, and the deal is a tremendously risky move by Petrie, who had never made a significant in-season trade before this season. He has made two in recent weeks: The Kings acquired Cuttino Mobley from Orlando for Doug Christie last month. 

The Kings were in Dallas on Wednesday night preparing for a game against the Mavericks -the first in a six-game road trip, their longest of the season. 
King insisted he wouldn't part with any of his prized nucleus of young players to make a deal and he didn't have to. 
Thomas had fallen out of favor with first-year Sixers coach Jim Q'Brien, while Skinner was a free-agent bust. Williamson was a valuable sixth man off the bench, but none of them have the pedigree of Webber. 
Williamson, a first-round draft pick by the Kings in 1995, played five years in Sacramento before being traded to Toronto for Christie following the 1999­00 season. 
The Sixth Man of the Year in 2001-02 with the Pistons, Williamson has a career aver­age of 11.8 points and 4.1 rebounds per game. He is aver­aging 10.8 points and 3.7 rebounds in 22 minutes per game this season. 
Thomas, in his sixth year in the league, is averaging 11.3 points and 6.6 rebounds this season al'ter averaging a dou­ble-double -13.6 points and 
10.1 rebounds-last season for the Sixers. 
Skinner, who will be playing for his fifth team in seven sea­sons, missed about a month earlier this season with an injured left knee and is averag­ing only 2.0 points and 2.6 rebounds. 
Barnes, a Sacramento native, has been a seldom-used reserve for the Kings this season, though he took Peja Stojakovic's spot in the starting lineup recently. Bradley was acquired earlier in the season. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
BC falls at Villanova, suffers second defeat of season 
Wright. 20 points in the first half. Kyle from halftime deficits to win game when the opposing team
Associated Press "We're learning how to win," Lowry added 11 points for the eight times this season -start­shoots 41 free throws," Boston VILLANOVA, Pa. -Villanova's Wright said. "It gives them con­Wildcats. ed their run while Villanova College coach Al Skinner said. fans may have to stop storming fidence and experience that's Craig Smith led a second-half went into a field goal drought "We just didn't make the plays the eourt. After all, wins over invaluable." rally for Boston College [22-2, that stretched just over 9 min­that were going to tie it and ranked teams are suddenly The Wildcats (18-6, 8-5 Big 11-2] and finished with 18 utes. make them feel uncomfortable. becoming routine for the East) beat their fourth top-25 points, while Jared Dudley had Steve Hailey capped a 12-2 We never got over the hump." Wildcats. team of the year, including a 15. spurt with a 3-pointer that No, but they gave the Wildcats Randy Foye scored 23 points win over then-No. 2 Kansas last The Wildcats, coming off a pulled the Eagles to 62-60 with a scare. and the 23rd-ranked Wildcats month, and bolstered their win over then-No. 17 Pittsburgh 6:23 left. Hailey pulled BC to 67-66 survived a nine-minute stretch chances of making their first on Sunday, used 70 percent 3-Foye banked a 6-footer for a with a jumper, but fouled out on without a field goal to beat No. NCAA tournament appearance point shooting in the first half to 67-64 lead, ending the long the next possession. He finished 3 Boston College 76-70 on since 1999. take a halftime lead they stretch without a field goal. with 11 points. Wednesday night. "We were confident we could stretched to 13 points early in The Wildcats never lost the Foye pushed the lead to 73-68 The enthusiastic fans stormed come in and play well, but the second half. When .Jason lead thanks to 8-of-10 free with an arcing baseline jumper the eourt like they have for two we're still not thinking about Fraser made a layup at the throw shooting during that that nearly skimmed the shot other home wins over top-25 the NCAAs," said Curtis 13:15 mark, the Wildcats led span. They were 36-of-41 over­clock on the way down. teams, chanted "Tournament!" Sumpter, who played with a 57-47 and seemed in control. all from the line. Last month, the Eagles and shook hands with coach Jay sore knee and scored 18 of his The Eagles -who rallied "It's very difficult to win a escaped with a 67-66 win. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR  2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. 1­ FIGHT AIDS IN AFRICA 14 months  
WANTED  FoR SALE  FoR RENT  LEASE 2005-2006 Academic Year. Available June 1, 2005. Two(2)  car garage,close to ND.$650/mo. Call317-815-1329.  volunteer program .. Education,Prevention and  
Bedrooms-2 Baths, Washer/Dryer,  Community mobilization! Fees  
FOUND: Little brown leather  Oakhill corner unit w/detached  COLLEGE PARK CON DOMINI- Security System, Fully Furnished.  apply/scholarships available  
purse/wallet  garage. Avail.for sale in May.  UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06  Call 626-441-1275 or Salvaty @  TICKETS  through volunteering before pro- 
w/picture of 3 children and a rosary  Interested call: 271-9739  SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ earthlink.net  gram start. Start: September 2005.  
near new post office  ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY 235­ Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5  Email: Line@locallink.net (269)  
- and fire department.  OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE.  7234 FOR MORE DETAIL.  222 E. Willow 3 bdrm.2773097  Days $2991 Includes Meals,  591·0518 www.iicgmi.org  
Call Karen 631-6574.  4 rm, 2 bath.For details  Celebrity Parties! Panama City,  
fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900.  19237 Cleveland 7 bdrm-52950  Clean homes close to ND. 2-8  Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica,  let's go brit lit  
Local alumnus looking for  Marks 5 bdrm -202 E. Cripe 4 bdrm  bdrms. High-end and furnished.  Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award  
experienced  Save your grant money & buy a  Ask about FREE student rent pro- Winning Cornpany!  franzia fest  
babysitter.  refurbished DELL computer.  Room in nice house.Spa,gym,tan­ gram. Blue & Gold Homes  SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­ 
Call360-1617.  $100&up. 229-3333  ning & more. $475/mo. 229-3333  (574)250-7653.  6386  B.R.U.N.O.S.  


Thursday, February 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Red Sox -will receive rings -while Yankees visit Fen-way 
Ex-Cub Sosa begins first spring training 
with Orioles 
A•snciated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Tho Boston llnd Sox will ring in tho homo portion or tlwir sc.hndulo by gPtting llwir World Snrins rings at tlwir homo o1wnnr April 11 hdorn a full housn or :{!>,000 l'ans -and tho Nnw York Yanknns. 
''I'm surP I'm not going to lu•lp tlwm hand thorn out," Yank1ws shortstop I>nrnk .Inter said to laughlPr at Nnw York's ramp in Tampa. "But they d Psn rvn it. I'm sun~ thny' vn hnl'n looking forward to this l'or a long tinw. So lot thmn do 
it. .. Boston lweamn tho l'irsl major lnagun loam to overeonw a :{-0 dnficil in a postsnason sorios. doing it against their higg1~st rival in llw ;\I. champi­onship sl'rins last Ortolwr. Tho 
( ·--~ ', : • ; ' -j i : 

Heel Sox then swnpt St. Louis in t.hc World Snries. 
"This is the kind of' quality problem I hope we're going to bn abln to have with some l'rn­qunncy." Hod Sox presidnnt Larry l.ucchino said, "sit around at spring training and dneido just when, oh whnn, do wo give out the World Series championship rings." 
Yankons owner George Stoinbrnnner had no com­plaints about the enrnmony !wing held whilo Nnw York is at Fnnway Park. 
"Tiw Hod Sox won their rings. Thoy eanwd them," he said in a statement. "They have t.lw right to pick tho date at which tlwy present thorn, and it's not a personal af'f'l'(mt to our playors." 
To aeeommodato fans who didn't got tickets to opening day, tho rings will be displayed at a welcome-horne dinner attnndod by players that same night and at a display on the Fnnway Park field along with tlw World Series trophy and 
the ball Doug Mientkiewicz caught for the last out ol' the Series. 
"Evon though the fans are not gntting it, they have to l'e11l like they're receiving one because they all deserve it," David Ortiz said. "Thny sup­ported us a lot through the years." 
In Fort Lauderdale, Fla., as a way or introducing himself to his nPw teammates, Sammy Sosa slammed about two dozen baseballs far over thn center­field wall during his first work­out with the Baltimore Orioles. Before he was done, nearly half' tho squad interruptod their drills to watch the show. 
"Sammy, we're going to run out ol' balls!" joked outfiHlder Larry Bigbie, who watclwd in awe as one shot al'ter another soared onto an airfield behind the practice field. 
"They'll be parking tho pianos in thn hangars l'rorn now on," Bigbie said later. 
The Chicago Cubs wnrc relieved to get rid of Sosa aftnr 



Presentation with book signing to follow. This event is free and open to the public. Proceeds from the book sale will benefit the YWCA of St. Joseph County. **Sponsored by the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership.** For more information, please call 284-4180 or visit www.saintmarys.edu/-cwil 
i 
\i 

.• ,··· :l'•·:·e. Nott"C L>ar-nc, fi'-...1 •-2005 7 ;:::>-rr~. 

his troubled 2004 season. and the Orioles are d1~lightod to have him. During his stay in Chieago, Sosa battled with Mark MeGwire in a memomblo home run duel in 1998, went to the All-Star gamn seven limns and was the 1998 NL MVI'. But he contends that the eorked bat and his early departure from the ballpark ruined an othnr­wise wondnrf'ul relationship. 
"For thn 13 years I was in Chicago, I only made two mis­takes. That's pretty good," lw said. "II' I had known that leav­ing early last year would havn caused sueh a eontrovnrsy, I would havn never done it. My manager told me I had a day off. But what can I say?" 
In Lakeland. Fla., Ugueth Urbina said he planned to report to spring training, even if his kidnapped mother still was bning held. lie didn't want to show her captors that lw was weak. Now that Maura Villarrnal is sal'o following a rescue operation Friday, Urbina said an indoseribahiP weight has be1m lil'ted from his shoulders. 
"I f'eel like I'm 18 years old," tho Detroit Tignrs reliever said. speaking puhlil:ly about the ordnal for thn lirst time. 
Villarrnal, 54, was rnseund by Vnnezuelan polirn during an 8­hour raid that ldt two of' lwr abductors dead, two captured and seven others as f'ugitivns. Polien dBseribnd thn kidnap­JWrs as Vnrwzunlan and Colombian drug smugglers. 
Slw was lwld l'or !i months, 18 days in a earn p that polirP eallod a drug-traflkkers' hidn­out in Vnrwzunla's soutlwrn mountains. 
Urbina and his two brothnrs, Ulmer and Ulisns, wore at a loss. 
"There wasn't much we could do. We'd never been in this sit­uation, and wn didn't know whern slw was," Urbina said. "Where can you go to try to find her? Slw could be any­where. It's hard." 
G-reat Food! 
G-reat Fun! 
#} Sports Jar in South &end 2046 South &end Ave ~ Across frottt Martins Plaza 
272~1766 
fUES: COLLEH NIG-HT-UJ 8-SPECIALS (STAJ'{TING-AT $).00) Wed: Live fRIVIA Night ~ ~rit1g your tea..,s -Prizes fHUJ'{S: UJ ~ Pet1t1Y Night ~ 1¢ Specials startit1g at 
9:00PM 
MusT ~E 21 WITH vAuu IU 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 24, 2005 
GOLF 



Wie, Creamer leading rejuvenation of LPGA 
Eight teens competing in this weekend's SBS Open in Hawaii 
Associated Press 
KAHUKU, Hawaii-Michelle Wie and Paula Creamer quickly shoot down any notion of a rivalry brewing between the teen stars. 
"We don't talk about that kind of thing," said Creamer, who will make her first LPGA Tour start as a pro Thursday at the season-opening SBS Open. "We talk more about girl stuff, I guess." 
The LPGA is banking other­wise, touting the talented youngsters as the future faces of women's golf. 
The pair was featured in an LPGA press release this week entitled "Rivalry in the mak­ing," and were the only golfers with scheduled news confer­ences Wednesday. 
Creamer and Wie are among eight teens playing in the 54­hole event. Others include the 18-year-old twins Aree and Naree Song. 
"I really don't think about rivals," said the 15-year-old Wie, who is making her 18th 

LPGA Tour start. "I just think about my own game and what I have to do better. 
"It's just me on the golf course," she said. "It's always going to be me fighting against myself." 
Creamer, 18, agreed. 
"Right now, I'm trying to think about this golf tournament," she said. "There are 132 people in the field. She is just one of those other players out in that field." 
The inaugural SBS Open marks the return of the LPGA Tour to Wie's home state. The last LPGA tournament in Hawaii was the 2002 Takefuji Classic, where Wie became the y<mngest to qualify for an LPGA Tour event at the age 12. 
"It's really nice to play at home," said the soft-spoken 6­footer who can outdrive many male pros. "I was talking to my mom and said, 'Oh wow. This is my fourth year out here.' It's pretty cool how time has passed." 
The $1 million SBS Open played at the Turtle Bay Resort's 6,563-yard, oceanside Palmer Course marks the first of eight LPGA Tour events Wie will enter this season. 
But she has already faced some heavy competition. 
NCAA BASKETBALL Te111ple coach Chaney suspended one ga111e 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Temple coach John Chaney suspended himself Wednesday for one game and apologized for put­ting a player in against Saint Joseph's a day earlier for the sole purpose of rough play and quick fouls. 
Chaney offered the self­imposed one-game suspension after meeting with Temple pres­ident David Adamany and ath­letic director Bill Bradshaw. He will be replaced on the bench by assistant Dan Leibovitz for Saturday's game against Massachusetts. 
"I would like to apologize to Saint Joseph's University, its fans, student-athletes and head coach Phil Martelli for my rep­rehensible behavior during Tuesday night's game," Chaney said in a statement. "I spoke with Coach Martelli today to voice my apology to him and his team." 
Upset by what he thought were illegal screens by Saint Joseph's that were not being called by the officials, Chaney turned to seldom-used 6-foot-8, 250-pound Nehemiah Ingram to "send a message." 
Ingram started throwing his arms around and tossing elbows, once connecting hard to the chin of Hawks center Dwayne .Jones, and had a hard foul on John Bryant that left him sprawled on the court for several minutes. 
Ingram fouled out in four minutes. 
''I'm sending a message," Chaney said after the game. ''I'm going to send in what we used to do years ago, send in the goon." 

Linda Bruno supported the decision. 
"Coach Chaney's behavior was uncharacteristic of the way he runs his program and I expect that a similar occur­renee will not happen again," Bruno said. 
Chaney's only other career suspension came in 1994. Temple suspended the Hall of Farner for one game after he publicly threatened to kill then­Massachusetts coach John Cali pari. 
February 24, 2005 • 7:30 p.m. 

~ 
LOGAN 
,..._.,~·-·,.,:~;;s-r~.,, 

The high school sophomore missed the cut in the PGA Tour's Sony Open last month then withdrew from the Hawaii Pearl Open because of a pulled muscle in her left forearm. 
Wie wore tape on her wrist Wednesday but said it feels much better. 
"I think I practiced too much. Hitting too many balls," she said. 
She seemed more bothered by the B she earned in English last 

semester, which prevented her Michelle Wle prepares for the 2005 LPGA SBS Open at Turtle fr?m getting straight A's. Bay Resort in Kahuku, Hawaii Wednesday. 

During the meal he took bread, blessed and broke it, and gave it to them. "Take this," he said. 'This is my body." (Mk 14:22) 
.. ~::.~(}····A ;:..:~··. 
.-:-::;·l~~;i, 




vocatio>n. nd. edu 
ANSWER~ 
THECAL.L.\t:!Y 
Call 631-8128 for more information. 

Thursday, February 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Cowboys reunite ex-Patriots Bledsoe, Parcells 
QB will slzare Dallas backfield with ex-NO standout julius jones 
As.~nciatcd Prcs!rt 
IHVINC;, TPxas -Drnw Hindson snt passing rnrords and rPaclwd l.lw SupPr Bowl as a young quartPrbark playing for Bill l'an·PIIs in NPW l·:ngland. NParly a dPcadP latPr, thP duo will try doing it again with thn !>alias Cowboys. 
BIPdsol! signPd a thrnn-yoar l'ontract WPd1wsday, onf' day afiPr lw was rPIPasPd by tlw Buffalo Bills. Financial tPrms wnrf' not imnwdiatf'ly available. 
Bil•dson k1ww last wnok that lw was going to bf' cut and with­in days dnddPd lw wanted to bn n·unitnd with l'an:plls. Onn~ the Bills riiPd tlw p<qwrwork, thn Cowboys quickly showf'd thny also wnm 1~agnr to strike a deal. 
l'arcl'lls calll'd Bll'ds<w -and told him lu'd lw tlw starter ­whiiP tl'am vil:n pn~sidnnt St.1•plwn .lonf's l'.aliod tho quar­tnrback's agPnt, David l>unn. OwnPr .ll'rry .Jones tlwn spokn with Bll'dsol' and Dunn. and tlw pair f'lnw to Dallas on WPdnPsday and lwld an aft.nr­IHIOII IIPWS ronfPnmcn. 
"I was vnry hopnfu I that this would hn thl' opportunity for 111 n . " said BIndso P. a In~ ad y sporting a t.iP that nicely matdwd tlw tPam's colors. ''I'm VIH'Y thankful it happonnd as quir.kly as it did. I'm vNy exdt­nd to bo a Dallas Cowboy. I can't wait to go homo and dress my kids with tho little stars and got rid of all the old goar from thn otlwr tnam." 
BIPdson was smiling as his jab at tlw Bills dn~w laughs, but lw also was seriously disappointml about how things tunwd out in Buffalo. lin mentionnd neoding timl' to get ovnr his angor toward tlw toam for handing his job to youngstPr J.P. Losman without an on-finld competition and later addnd that lw hopes to provn tlwm wrong. 
"TlwrP's no quostion that is A motivating factor," said Bledsoe, who provod sonwthing to tho Patriots by throwing for morn than 4,000 yards aud making the Pro Bowl tlw snason aftnr thny traded him to Bufl'alo. "It's not Till•: motivating f'aetor. TilE motivating f'aetor is that I want to stand on tho finld and hold up that trophy at thn nnd or thn Sl!aSOil." 
.Jonns rnpcated several thnnws throughout tho news eonf'nrnnee: That signing Blmlson was supportnd by him­snit' and 1wnryorw nlsn in the organization !meaning not just Pan:nlls I and that having Blndson makes Dallas an imme­diatn contender dnspite having gonn h-1 0 last snason. 
"Wn think wn got the vnry bnst option available to us," Jones said. 
Blnds1w 's attraction to Dallas b1lgan with Parenlls, tho coaeh who ehidnd him so mueh during his first four ymtrs in thn NFL that thn quarterback onen told his father, "I can't wait until Sundays bncause I ean get on the field and he ean't bn ynlling at me. You'ro out there in front of' 70,000 fans and it's Uw qui­ntnst it's bnnn on tlw field all week." 
Yet as the years passed, Bledson lnarnml to appreciate Parenlls' gruff' styln. They nvon dovelopnd somewhat of a friendship, with Pan:ells occa­sionally calling Hindson when times wnre tough -such as 2001, wlwn hn was injured, lost his job to Tom Brady and <WI~n­tually was traded to thn Bills. Bledsoe said Pareells also ealled him during his first year in Bufl'alo to wish him good luek. 
Pareells, who didn't attend the nows eonf'nrnnee, showod what hn thought of Bledsoe by mak­ing him the top ovorall piek in the 1993 draft, starting hhn as a rookie and letting him throw a league-rneord 691 passes his sneond season. Two years later, the Patriots reaehed the Super Bowl but lost to Green Bay. Parcells then left for the New York Jets. 
Bledsoe lod Nnw England to the playofl's the next two years, but hasn't started a playoff game sinee 1998. The Bills wont 23-25 ovor his throe seasons and never made the playoffs. They eamn close last season, rebounding from 0-4 to 9-6 going into the finale, whieh is 

why he was so upset Buffalo gave up on him. 
Now Bledsoe's main emotion is excitement over his new teammates. lie knows Terry Glenn from tlwir six seasons together in New England and Parcells says he'll love tight nnd Jason Witton. Blndsoe also is looking forward to playing with running baek Julius Jones and mcoiver Keyshawn .Johnson. 
"I can't wait to go sit down with Bill, sit down with !pass 

SPRING 



ARTSftst 

TWO WEEKS OF MUSIC, FILM, THEATRE, AND DISCUSSION 
VISIT HTTP://PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU/ARTSFEST.SHTML FOR MORE INFORMATION 
APRAYER OF HOPE AND WITNESS AGAINST CAPITAL PUNISHMENT Thursday, February 24 at 8:30p.m. log Chapel, Notre Dome 
INSIDE/OUTSIDE: DEATH ROW IN WORDS AND IMAGES February 24-27 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Notre Dome 

"OKLAHOMA CITY BOMBING: TWO FATHERS & FORGIVENESS" Sunday, Februorv 27 ot 5:30p.m. West Wing in Noble Oining Room Saint Mary's CoHege 
r;t.JUNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
AN ALL SCHOOL ASSEMBLY ON THE DEATH PENALTY AND CATHOLIC SOCIAL TEACHING WITH MR. BUD WELCH Monday, February 28 ot 9a.m. Monon Cotholit-High School, Mishawaka 
KEYNOTE ADDRESS BY FORMER GOVERNOR GEORGE H. RYAN OF IlliNOIS 1l1e Death Penalty: ASystem of Justice ond Recondliolion" Moodoy, February 28 ot 7p.m. Dado Moinstoge TI1eotre, Notre Dome 
NOKLAHOMA CITY BOMBING: TWO FATHERS &FORGIVENESS" Tuesdoy, March 1at noon Colemon Morse lounge, Notre Oome 
"OKlAHOMA CITY BOMBING: FROM RAGE TO RECONCILIAnON" Tuesdoy, March l at 7:30p.m. little Flower (otholic Church 541911ronwood, South Bend 
INSIDE/OUTSIDE: DEATH ROW 
IN WORDS AND IMAGES 
March l-11 
St. Joseph County Ubrory, Main Brandl, South Bend 
NATIONAl DEBAT£ ON THE 
DEATH PENALTY: APANEL DISCUSSION 
Wednesday, Morch 2ot nooo 
Stopleroo lounge, 5oinl Mary's College 
Wednesday, Morch 2ol4:1 5p.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Heshurgh Center for lntemotionol Studies, Notre Dome 
ganw r.oordinatorl Sean Payton, and start. talking about what we're going to do," Hindson said. 
While thn :n-year-old Blndsoo is night years younger than predPcnssor Vinny Testaverde, his arrival mnans l>rnw llnnson must wait evnn longnr if' lw's to beconw Dallas' quartnrhack of' tlw t'uturP. 
Last spring, tlw Cowboys out­nHtnnuvPrPd many teams to land llonson. 
TH£ lARAMIE PROJECT by Molses Koufmon directed by Anton Juan Oecio Moinstuge Theatre Thursday, Februorv 24 at 7:30p.m. Friday, February 25 ot 7:30p.m. 
Soturday, February 26 ot 7:30p.m. 
Sunday, Febwory 27 at 2:30p.m. Tuesdoy, March 1ot 7:30 Jl,m. Wednesday, Murch 2ot 7:30p.m. 
Thursday, Morch 3at 7:30p.m. itckets $12, SJOfacuiJy/stoff, $10 seni~, $8 oil sludent~ 
The1998 murder of Matthew Shepord hos become on icon of intolemnce. In response to the brutal e'lllnt, The laramie Pro;ect coptures the turbulent emotions of the residents of loramie, Wyoming, IHlunted by the reality tho! they horl mised the sons who could show such hole. It ~ ostory of of great sadness, greut beauty ond, perhaps most imporlonfly, greet revalo~ons. 
DEAD MAN WALKING by Tim Robbins directed by Jay Skellon and Siiri Scolt Soturdoy, februmy 26 ot 7:30p.m. Sunday, february 27 ot 2:30p.m. Tuesday, March l ot 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, Murch 2at 7:30p.m. Philbin S1Udio Theatre, Notre Oome Tickets $12,$10 loculty/stoff, $10 seniors, $8 oil student'i 
This foscinaffng and powertul ploy ex~ores the relotio~hip between o condemned young wnvict ond the nun who counseb him in rile doys leading up to his execution. Matthew Poncelet writes to Si~ter Helen Prejean for he~, asking her to visit him in prison. She ogroos to oct os his spiritual adviser and begins lo spend hme eom doy with him trying to S(l\le Poncelet's soul by getiing him to occepl to his guilt ond osk forgiveness for his oc~ons. 
FOR TICKETS CALL THE TICKET OFFICE AT 574.631.2800 

DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING ARTS.CENTER 

~-------------­
I 
I 
I 
I OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERvtcEs Thursday, February 24, 2005 


Men's College Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Illinois (31)  27-0  775  
2  North Carolina  22-3  736  
3  Boston College  22-1  699  
4  Oklahoma Stale  20-3  669  
5  Kentucky  20·3  627  
6  Wake Forest  22·4  591  
1  Kansas  20·4  557  
8  Arizona  23-4  551  
9  Michigan State  19·4  548  
10  Duke  19·4  546  
11  Louisville  23·4  456  
12  Utah  23·3  406  
13  Washington  21·4  397  
14  Alabama  21·4  348  
15  Syracuse  22·5  346  
16  Gonzaga  21-4  339  
17  Pittsburgh  18-5  247  
18  Pacific  22·2  245  
19  Connecticut  17·6  222  
20  Wisconsin  17·6  194  
21  Charlotte  19·4  137  
22  Oklahoma  20-6  124  
23  Cincinnati  19-6  116  
24  Villanova  17-6  48  
25  Texas Tech  16·7  23  

Women's College Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team record points 
1 lSU(40) 24·1 1,000 2 Stanford 23-2 926 3 Duke 25-2 920 4 North Carolina 22-3 833 5 Tennessee 21-4 823 6 Ohio State 25-3 819 7 Michigan State 24·3 754 8 Baylor 21-3 752 9 Rutgers 20-5 682 10 NOTRE DAME 23-4 641 11 Connecticut 18-6 587 12 DePaul 23-3 544 13 Texas 17-7 498 14 Texas Tech 19-5 468 15 Minnesota 20·6 440 16 Temple 22·3 335 17 Kansas State 18·6 318 18 Georgia 20·7 302 19 Vanderbilt 19-6 294 20 Iowa State 19·5 266 21 NC State 19-6 150 22 Maryland 18-7 139 23 Boston College 17-7 111 24 Penn State 18-8 89 25 Gonzaga 24·2 69 
Central College Hockey Association 
team conference overall 
Michigan 21-3-2 24·7·3 Ohio State 20-5-1 23·8-3 Northern Michigan 13·7-4 16·9·7 Nebraska-Omaha 12-10-4 16-12·4 Bowling Green 12-9-3 15·11-4 Miami (Ohio) 11-12·3 15·15·4 Alaska Fairbanks 10~13·3 11·14·3 Michigan Slate 9-21-3 14·14-4 Lake Superior State 7-11-6 8-17-7 Ferris Stale 6·14-4 11·17·4 Western Michigan 6·16-2 11·17·2 NOTRE DAME 3-18-5 5-23-6 
around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Wisconsin at Michigan State, 7 p.m., ESPN Marquette at Cincinnati, 9 p.m., ESPN2 Gonzaga at Portland, 11 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Philadelphia at NY Knicks, 7 p.m., TNT Sacramento at Dallas, 9:30 p.m., TNT 
NFL 

Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -Randy Moss is heading for Oakland, the receiver's agent said Wednesday. 
Dante DiTrapano, Moss' agent, told the Associated Press that the Minnesota Vikings and the Raiders had "come to an agreement on Randy playing for Oakland next year." 
Neither the Vikings nor the Raiders would confirm the deal, which was first reported by the St. Paul Pioneer Press on its Web site. 
"We have had discussions with the Oakland Raiders, but there's noth­ing to announce," Rob Brzezinski, the Vikings' vice president of foot­ball operations, told the Associated Press. 
Raiders spokesman Mike Taylor 
IN BRIEF 
House committee advances 
plan for new Colts stadium INDIANAPOLIS -A proposal to fund a new stadium for the Indianapolis Colts through a mix that includes hotel and gambling tax increases and a surcharge on game tickets advanced out of an Indiana House committee Wednesday. 
The move keeps the legislation alive even though Indianapolis Mayor Bart Peterson and others had con­cerns about the details of the plan. 
The House Ways and Means Committee voted 17-5 to advance the bill, which would provide $44 million a year to replace the HCA Dome with a 63,000-seat, retractable-roof stadi­um that has been estimated to cost between $550 million and $700 mil­lion. 
Legislators and Peterson said it was important for the bill to be out of committee to meet a Tuesday dead­line for legislation to be passed by 
declined comment on the trade reports. 
DiTrapano said he didn't know the terms of the deal, but the Pioneer Press reported the Vikings would get linebacker Napoleon Harris, along with the seventh overall pick and a late-round pick in the upcoming draft. 
The deal cannot become official until March 2, the start of the NFL's liscal year. 
"It's just like any other contract. There's a meeting of the minds between the people who negotiate for the Vikings and the people who nego­tiate for the Raiders," DiTrapano said. "It just hasn't been reduced to writing yet and it won't be until March 2." 
The flamboyant Moss had been the subject of trade rumors following this 
the House. 
"It keeps the issue alive," Peterson said, adding that the specifics of the bill are not important at this stag_e.Dolphins release Fiedler,Freeman, Wooden, Williams MIAMI -The Miami Dolphins released quarterback Jay Fiedler on Wednesday, ending his five-year run as the much-maligned successor to Dan Marino. 
Last season, Fiedler started just seven games for the Dolphins (4-12), going 1-6 while throwing for 1,186 yards, seven touchdowns and eight interceptions. 
Fiedler spent much of the 2004 season on the injured list with a her­niated disc. Fiedler was due a $2 mil­lion roster bonus in March. 
The Dolphins also released safeties Arturo Freeman and Shawn Wooden, and defensive end Jay Williams. 
In five seasons with the Dolphins, past season. He struggled with a hamstring injury, but still finished with 13 touchdown catches. lie was fined $10,000 for pretending to pull down his pants and moon the Green Bay crowd during Minnesota's NFC Wildcard playoff win. He also drew criticism for leaving the field with 2 seconds left in a regular-season loss against Washington. 
DiTrapano said Moss was "very pleased to be going to Oakland and looking forward to playing with a team that's promised they're going to throw the ball deep a whole lot to him and having a chance at winning the Super Bowl." 
On Tuesday, the Haiders re-signed Jerry Porter, their star wide receiver to a contract worth $20 million over five years. Porter could have becomp, a free agent on March 2. 
Fiedler was 36-23 as a starter, throwing for 11,040 yards, 66 touch­down and 63 interceptions. He ranks as the franchise's third-leading pass­er behind Marino and Bob Griese. Shaq out until after Heat 
return to Miami INDIANAPOLIS -Shaquille O'Neal won't play before doctors examine his injured knee in Miami on Thursday. 
Heat coach Stan Van Gundy said the team trainer doesn't think O'Neal's injury is serious. 
Miami's next game will be at home on Saturday against Orlando. Van Gundy wouldn't speculate how long O'Neal might be out. 
O'Neal left the game against Chicago on Tuesday night after land­ing awkwardly early in the first quar­ter. He fell onto Bulls forward Othella Harrington, after going up for an alley-oop pass from Dwyane Wade, and stayed on the f1oor for several minutes holding his knee. 

Thursday, February 24, 2005 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
THE SPRING RECRUITING SEASON IS HEATING UP Don't get burned. Check out these events! BIG EAST Career Fair.....~ .. . March H, 2005 Sheraton Hotel & '1\>,ver, Ne\N )'"ork H11 7th 1'\venue 10 arn-4 prn V\'ill you be in NYC for Spring Break~) Join students front other BIG EAST colleges to n1ect crnploycrs such as: oBlootnbcrg oKatz wlcdia oAIG cConHnct-ce ( )ne oPcarson Education oi\1cCann Erickson oLord Abbett Q."')tarwood I lotcls oVcrizon \Nircless [Jivlorgan St~n1ley cCapital I(J Q."')herwin-\Villiatns [}'-}tate Fann Insurance oLinens 'N 'fhings oAllegis Croup orlw I Iarti(>rd For Ill<>IT inl<>nnation and online registration, visit : http://www.eventemanagement.com/bigeast2005/ Don't miss the BIG EAsT e-Fair! March 21-i\pril 15 \'isit virtuall'tnployer booths and search f(>r jobs at \V\VW.nlonstcrtrak.conl. 'I'o get started. create an account, log in and click on the Big East logo. Bigl()Plus(] .Cctreer C<)Ililecti<)Il April H, 2005•.IJ_ Ida Noyes Hall, l Tniversity of Chicago, Hyde Park Campus/. _):) I 2 pm ­11. pm (CST) A career htir in Chicago featuring a diverse array of employers \vho arc seeking candidates graduating in May 200:3 and undcrgTaduate students pursuing summtT internships.s l3igl()PltiS Virttic-tl Car·eer Fc-tii-­February 21 -~1arch 11 Visit www.n1onstertrak.conl, create an account, log in (tnd dick Oil the Big 1 0+ logo. ( >ne or the largest virtual career t;tirs in the country, the llire Bigl OPlus consortium oilers a \'<nicty of full-time and internship postings l(>r students with allm<~iors. Employer registration is currently underway. Previous participants include: CBS American Express Goldman, Sachs, & Co. Ecolab, Inc. McGraw-Hill Aon Corporation Kohl's Maytag Stryker Medical Eaton Corp. Cintas Corp. ...and many more! For more information on these and other Career Center events VISIT: http://careercenter.nd.edu/ EMAIL: epruitt@nd.edu CALL: 1-4060  

f 
' 
page 20 Thursday, February 24, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 

Sobieraj 
continued from page 24 
in each of the last three years. With a strong showing in the upcoming NCAA finals he is poised to join an elite group of only 21 Notre Dame student athletes who have received that honor four times, a club that includes eight fencers. Because of his previous expe­rience in the National Finals, Sobieraj feels more prepared for this year's championships. 
"I think [the "It would be Poland, following previous experi­nice to get an his mother's sug­ence] helps, gestion.
individual ring." 
actually," he "My mom was said. "I had trou­the chief of the bles the first Michal Sobieraj fencing club [in time, but now I Krakow] and she
Irish fencer 
can know what to expect." 
Sobieraj also has many inter­national accolades under his belt. He is a defending champi­on of the North American Cup, and he is currently a member of the national team in his native Poland, having served as a part of the squad that placed 4th in the 2003 World Championships and is being considered to be part of the country's Olympic contingent in 2008. 
"lie's a high class athlete. He's a top international fencer, and, naturally, by his record he's a star," Irish head coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
Because of his success and experience, Sobieraj is seen as both a leader and a go-to­show people how to win and how to prepare for bouts." 
The importance of prepara­tion is something Sobieraj began to realize early in his fencing career. 
"At first [when I started fencing], I didn't realize that psychology played as big a role in fencing [as it does]. You have to be mentally prepared to figure out opponents, and they call it physical chess," he said. 
Sobieraj first began playing this brand of chess at the age 
of 12 in his home­
town of Krakow, 
guy in pres­"He's one ofthe best of the work of sure situa­writers such as
fencers in the NCAA,
ti<ms. Dostoevsky and
and he should try this 
"He is the Joseph Heller. person who year to get the medal "I read a lot creates the and enjoy read­
he didn't get {the last 
situations for ing," Soberiaj
three years]. " 
everybody. said. Because of his Beyond its abilities, they Janusz Bednarski prestigious put him in a fencing pro-
Irish coach 
told me there was 
a fencing club in my hometown and that I should try it. I tried it, and stayed for the next 10 years," he said. 
Over the course of those years, Sobieraj became so suc­cessful in part because he began mastering the mental aspects of the sport. Bednarski said he is impressed with his fencer's competitive IQ. 
"He's smart in bouting, using his intellectual side to read opponents by quick analyz­ing," he said. 
This intellectual side is another facet of himself that Sobieraj has cultivated. He has an appreciation of literature, primarily that of Europe and Poland, and is especially fond 
hard position, force him to be observed by everybody. He, by his class, is used by others to [shoulder lots] of the responsibility," Bednarski said. 
However, Sobieraj does not back away from his roles as captain. 
"I think I can provide some help, some advice to the guys on the team, especially techni­cal things," he said. "I can 
gram, Notre 
Dame attracted Sobieraj because of its aca­demic reputation. 
"I have gotten a very good education, and I think I have learned a lot. That's the rea­son I came here, and hopeful­ly, it will pay off and be useful in the future," he said. 
In the course of their time together, Bednarski has seen Sobieraj's academic advance-
Students 
Fly Cheaper 
spring break. study abroad &more 
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from South Bend to: 
Washington, D.C.  $124  Mexico City  $265  
New York City  $168  Frankfurt  $321  
Los Angeles  $233  London  $321  
Anchorage  $261  Melbourne $1260  


ment firsthand. 
"He came as an athlete, and he became an educated per­son," Bednarski said. 
Sobieraj plans to use that education to possibly pursue an MBA and enter the business world at home in Krakow. 
"I want to stay in Poland," he said. "Four years away from home is kind of a lot for me." 
However, Bednarski is confi­dent that his star is not quite ready to focus on what comes after Notre Dame fencing. 
"I hope he will use the chance to get a gold medal [in the NCAA finals]," Bednarski said. "He's one of the best fencers in the NCAA and he should try this year to get the medal he didn't get [the last 3 years]. Let's hope he has the drive to do this." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Youlve been hearing all about the Vagina Monologues 
Want to know about the experiences of real women in this community? 
Come to the first ever SMC MONOLOGUES and find out! 
Saturday, February 26th at 7pm and Sunday February 27th at 2pm Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall 
All monologues are written and performed by women in the Saint Mary's Community Adult, sensitive material intended for mature audience 
There is a suggested donation of $3. All proceeds will go to SOS (The rape crisis center for St. Joseph County 
Sponsored by SMC C.A.R.E. 

The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting notninations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http:I I osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by Friday, March 4, 2005. 

Thursday, h~bruary 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Kegelman's career is one big broken record 
Sophomore already holds numerous team and conference marks 
Hy ANN LOUGHERY 
Sporrs Wrirer 
If' winning rcu~Ps is an art form. tlwn rail Tim Kngnlman tlw Midwlangnlo of' swimming. 
"liP knows how to win," roar h T i rn W~~Ish said . " Not everyonn knows how to win, or 
else nvnryonn would bn winning 
evnry rare. You've got to give nvery­thing you've got to the nu~n at hand. That's what lw dons. 
That's why 
lw wins." At last 
wnnknnd's Big East 
Championships, Kegnlman 

added a number of wins to his alrnady impressive resume, including titles in tho 200 indi­vidual nwdley (1 minute, 41J.62 seconds), the 400 fmestyle rnlay (3:16.1)3) and the 100-yard but­terfly -an event in which he also holds the Big East Championship record with 4fUl6. 
But the accolades didn't nnd thorn. 
Tho sophomorn also sot school records in tho 200-and 400-yard mndley relays. 
Teamnd with junior Doug Bauman, junior Tim Handolph and senior Frank Krakowski, Kegelman's relays rloeknd 
1:30.12 and 3:16.11:{ respnctive­ly. 
Later on, Kngnlman cornbinnd efforts with Handolph, Krakowski and sophomore Louis Cavadini to sot school records in the 200-yard fren rnlay (1:20.64) and 400 frnn relay (3:00.02). 
Kngelman was also nanwd all-Big East in the 200-yard medley relay, 200-yard frne relay, 200-yard individual mod­ley, 100-yard lly, 400-yard med­lny relay and 400-yard frcn rday. 
Additionally, invitations to the NCAA championships in tlw 200-yard individual rnndley, 100-yard fly, 400 medley relay, and 200 free mlay are pending. 
But despitn so many awards to his name, the unassuming Kegelrnan chosn to focus on the team's success. 
"It's exciting to be part of a team that has so much talent," Kegelman said. "I think all of the records we broke and the awards we got were just a sign of how much depth the team has. We were following through with the work we have donn all season." 
Kegelman's performance was especially characteristic of his performances and hard work this season, Welsh said. 
"He is always a vital part of the team's success," Welsh said. 
"!lis swims in the Big East wen• tributes to his gustiness and cornpnlitivnnnss." 
Wnlsh said tlw nwnt against tlwn-No. 17 Pittsburgh, last ynar's Big East eham pion, was also testanwnt to Keg1drnan's eapabilitins and potential as a eompntitor. 
Touching tlw wall .04 sneonds ahnad of Pittsburgh Darryl Washington in tho nHwt's final nvnnt, Kngnlman rlinelwd t.lw win for tlw Irish. As andwr of' tho 400-yard l'rnnstyln relay, whieh eonsistNi of' Krakowski, Cavadini and sophornorn Nick Fanslau, Kngnlrnan socurml tlw first place finish with a tinw of' 3:04.13. 
Tho win in thn 400-yard f'rnnstyln n~lay was just thn king on t.hn cake. l~arlier in tlw mont, Kngnlrnan dainwd a win in tlw 100-yard buttnrfly (49.17) and pl1u:ed sn«~ond in thn 200-yard fly. 
With the toughnst dual mnnts of the season and the Big East Championship bnhind him. Kegelman is looking forward to the NCAAs. Welsh said lw is confident Kegnlman will make the team proud in the competi­tion. 
"lie has the heart of a eham­pion," Welsh said. "And I think he'll rise to the occasion if given the opportunity. lin's a great representative of tho tnarn and of Notre Damn." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, February 24, 2005 
r 
I 
~ 
I 
tral site games -if you call them that -were appealing
Schedule 
for a couple of reasons," continued from page 24 
Heisler said. "One, we'd be 
able to go to some places in Notre Dame's scheduling in the country that weren't rou­the near future and the nec­tinely being seen by our foot­essary work to accomplish ball program, which could be such a task, the "neutral" a positive in terms of recruit­game would not fit into the ing. mix until at least around "Also, just the number of 2009, Heisler alumni and fans said. in some of these 
Until the "We really need to areas where 
legislation is Notre Dame
create more ofa
reviewed, doesn't go every Notre Dame business model for season, or even 
athletic offi­ourselves." every few sea­cials will look sons, would into playing have a chance to
John Heisler
the "neutral" see the team." 
game in the senior associate Heisler men­Southeast or athletic director tioned the states Southwest of Texas and regions of the Florida as possi­country, areas in which the ble locations where the Irish school and team receive less could find a suitable venue for exposure. the game. Notre Dame athlet­
"The prospect of these neu-ic officials present a general plan at this point because they must do significant amount of work to determine the feasibility of their desires. 
"[We haven't really done] that much," Heisler said. "At this point, we really need to create more of a business model for ourselves. We want to make sure that we're clear in terms of how we can set these up and what the expec­tations would be." 
Notre Dame most likely would want to control the tel­evision rights -meaning the game would go to NBC -and the "bulk" of the ticket sales should the game happen, Heisler said. 
"Our feeling right now is we would expect these [games] to not be that much different than a home game," Heisler said, "except we'd be playing it somewhere else." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Borton 
continued from page 24 
but this year, she said she has handled her aches and pains the best. 
"I feel that I have to realize that I'm going to be injury prone and chronic pain, and I have to play through that," Borton said. "I think I'm stronger, maybe healthier. I still have the pains, but I'm used to it." 
Batteast, the only other senior on the Irish roster, said her teammate has taken the pres­sure off of her this season. 
"T's really done a lot," the All­American said. ''I'm only aver­aging about 6.5 rebounds this year because she's getting a lot more. She's been more of a presence down on the block, she's been scoring and she's been consistent this whole year" 
Borton, whose 56.7 field goal percentage would lead the Big 
East if she had made enough 
shots to qualify, leads the Irish 
by example, as she is one of the 
less outspoken leaders on this 
Notre Dame team. 
"I think most of the time 
Megan [Duffy] is more of the 
vocal leader, just because she's 
the point guard, she's a natural 
lnader," Borton said. ''I'm more 
of" a quiet leader, I believe, as a 
post, so hopefully they follow 
my lead just by my actions and 
not by my speech." 
And after averaging just 5.8 
points and four rebounds per 
game last year, the senior is 
having the most fun since she 
made the choice between 
Connecticut and Notre Dame 
four years ago. 
"I think it's been the best sea­son so far in my four years," Borton said. "I really enjoy all my teammates, and I think we ·have a great atmosphere here 
with the team chemistry." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Ga01e 
continued from page 24 
on both the East and West squads. 
Legendary coach Morgan Wooten, who won more than 1,200 games at DeMatha 
High School in Hyattsville, Md. is the chairman of the selection committee, while Wooden served as an advisor. 
Current Irish men's basket­ball coach Mike Brey played for Wooten and later became an assistant coach at his alma meter. 

Ryan Ayers and Kyle McAlarney, two other high school seniors joining Brey's team in the fall, were named to the 100 finalists for the McDonald's boys' team. Chandrica Smith, the other early signee for Irish women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw's class of 2009, was also a finalist. 
On the girls' teams, Texas has three incoming freshmen playing in the game, while Georgia, Maryland, Duke, California and Oklahoma each have two. 
On the boys' side Duke, North Carolina, Kansas each have three signees on the team while Oklahoma State, Washington each have two. 
Schrader will join current Irish players Courtney LaVere and Crystal Erwin as McDonald's All-Americans. 
Zeller is the first Notre Dame recruit to be named to the McDonald's team since Tarin Francis played in the game in 2002. Chris Thomas, the only Mr. Indiana in basket­ball to attend Notre Dame, participated in the game in 2001. 
Contact Matt Lozar at 
mlozar@nd.edu 

The Nanovic Institute for European Studies offers the following Grants ana Fellowship for 2005-2006 
DEADLINE: MARCH 18J ZOOS 
1. Research ana Travel Grants to Europe (or Undergraduate Students up to $4JOOO. 
z. Research ana Travel Grants to Europe (or Graduate Students up to $5JOOO. 
3. Paul G. Tobin Graduate Fellowship of$15JOOO. 


For more information~ call 1-5253~ or go to www.nd.edu(-nanovic 

Thursday, February 24, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 32 Hick 52 Uncle's heir, 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Patricia Rid1an.lson. 54: John Sandford. 

perhaps
1 Visibly wowed 33 Top-notch 
61: Johnny Winter. 61: Peter Fonda. 66 54 Evil, to Yvonne Happy Hirthday: You've been a little confused, uno your life has been up and 
5 Hindu noble 34 Manfred B. 
down. The roller coaster ride isn't over, so hold on tight hut don't light it. The

57 Not wandering 
9 Interest of Fermi half of Ellery more you give in to whal's happening around you. the hellcr you will do in the Queen 58 Start of an end. Change can he good and will. in your case. bring about some interesting
13 Teed off 
appeal for priva­revelations this year. Your numbers arc 6. 19. 28. 31. 38. 4435 Uris hero 
14 Bator cy ARIES (March 21-AI>ril 19): Not everyone will he on your team, hut the ones 36 Key to answer-who are will work just us hard as you. You are on a quest to make it to the next
15 Big brand of 
60 Chips in level. and with all the support you arc getting you should be able to reach whatever 
office labels ing 16-and 58­
goal you set. *****

Across and 10-61 English actor
16 Setting for a TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Don't complicate mutters. Take the simplest route
and Bates
romantic dinner and you will discover that life isn't that difficult. Don't Jet your personal life
27-Down 

62 Fein interfere with getting things done. The more you accomplish. the less you will
18 Roman house-
have to deal with on the side. **
39 Bygone polit. 

hold deities 63 Thai money 
GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20\: You must react quickly and get things done. Too 
cause 

19 Plugs 64 Lorgnette part much talk will slow you down and lead to opposition. Change can he cxpm:tcd. 40 Bowler and although it may not he what you want, it will turn in your favor. "'*"'* 
20 Cushion site 65 It puts on a real-
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Not everyone will want to hear about your·

41 Unwonted ly big show 
21 Guinness adjec-dilemma, and, really. things aren't as had as you think. You should he intent on tive 42 Move a little 
gelling ahead financially and not wasting time lamenting over something you can't change. Good things arc headed your way.***

22 It may be made 43 Smith and Gore DOWN 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Consider what is dragging you down and holding you by a falling rock hack. If you can focus on the good instead of the had, you will do that much
1 1934 film canine 44 Vicious 
better. Think outside the hox and you will come up with a really good plan. ***

23 Microscopic 2 Provoke 
45 "Look, rna, no VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a long, hard look at your game plan. You may
menace 

cavities!" and have to alter some of your goals in order to he successful. Talk to people who
3 Christmas 
25 Sunning spots have the information that will help you move forward instead of spinning your
others bulbs, e.g. 
wheels.***

28 Seamstress' cry 
47 Spill 4 Salon supply LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You are prohuhly thinking too hig. Buck up and size 
upon making a 
down. You can he a big fish in a small pond and achieve happiness. security and 

5 Red-haired 
mistake? 49 Sidekick Puzzle by Robert Zimmerman u better lifestyle. Don't undermine yourself. **** 29 5 Series or 50 What water in a 6 Not sotto voce SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nuv. 21): Get on with what you feel is right and stop waiting 
26 Of sound 45 Kevin and 54 Wing, say 
for others to come to you. Nothing will he accomplished if you don't take the

6 Series pail may do 7 Pusher's foe Francis
27 Quarter's value 
initiative and make things happen. You arc in a highly creative cycle so don't a Red-handed 28 Adventured 46 Provo neighbor miss a beat. ** ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 55 Poet Akhmatova SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21 ): You may think you know what you want.
9 Be useful 30 Kind of raise 4Bit's a plus 
hut when you get it, you will probably change your mind. Take a breather and -7+.=+-::+::-B 10 Difficult stage spend a little time having fun with friends or your lover. This is not the day for
31 Has on 49 Pie choice 
serious discussions. ***** 

-m--:-t::::+.-:+:::-1 11 Some rocks 36 Bad-mouths 56 Big cat
50 Stick CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): You can and will accomplish. but not if you 12 Classic comput­37 Datum take on so much that you end up moving in circles. Partnerships can he formed. 
51 Olin of 

er game so drum up support to help you achieve your goals. It's all in the way you play38 Rug choice "Chocolat" 59 Inflation meas-the game today. *** 
15 Royal grandfa­
42 Elegiac 53 Skye, for one ure?: Abbr. AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel, learning and trying tn get ahead should 
-=+7+::+:::-l ther of Spain's 
he your intent. You can accomplish something you've been trying to get out of ~=+=+::+.-+:cl"!"!"-:-:i-:-+=+-=-Juan Carlos the way for some time. Have faith in what you arc capable of doing. Let the: past 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a go and move into the future. *** credit card, 1-800-814-5554. PISCES (Feb. 19-Murch 20): It's time to make whatever change is necessary 
17 She loved 
Narcissus 
to lift th.e burdens you have gathered along tile way. A shift in the way you live

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
22 Secure and approach responsibilities will lead to a much happier future. "'**' •.t-:-+:718-:-:+±-:i 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Birthday Haby: You arc intelligent, quick to change. and very adaptable. You

-=-+=+-:,..., 24 Pilot with flight Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 are entertaining and creative --a poet, a romantic and a very unpredictableattendants 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). individual. 25 European capi­Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
Check out Eugenia's Weh Sites at a,\·trowh•ice.com and eugenialast.com.

tal, to natives solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
TODAY I GOT A BONUS 
CONGRATULATIONS;

DOES YOUR.
FOR. SELLING STUFF 
YOU'RE A SOCIOPATH.

SODA TASTE NO.
TO A CUSTOMER. WHO 

ANY LESS
PROBABLY CANT PAY. 
IT FEELS

DELICIOUS? 
KINDA GOOD. 
CHARLES SCHULZ

PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
Redwood Boy in 
the seventh 
MYLIF 
1 
rJ I I 
02005 Tribune Med1a Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
OCTIX 
rJ (]
1 
INLOIV 
WHAT THE BOOKIE GAVE THE WAITER.
rJ (]
1 
www.jumble.com
tDEXENP Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as] [ ] I I
L""-....£.L..---l~~---'--__..l.-_J suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 
A rI I I J..rI I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Jumbles: RIVET MANGY FEEBLE AIRWAYYesterday's Answer: 
When they vacationed on the posh island, they were surrounded by-WATER 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 

r---------------------·----------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, February 24, 2005 
page 24 
FooTBALL 
Athletic officials evaluate schedule 
Proposal to extend the college football season opens doors for Irish 
By PAT LEONARD A~sociate Sports Editor 
Next season's Notre Dame foot­ball schedule is all but set in stone. Though the Irish cannot make drastic seheduling changes for the near future, program offi­eials are planning to add one home game per season and play a possible "neutral-site" game should the NCAA vote in April to extend the college football season to 12 games. 
Regardless of the NCAA's deci­sion, the Irish athletic department wants to ad-d an extra game at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"We're trying to get to the point where we would be able to play seven home games routinely in South Bend," Senior Associate Athletic Director John Heisler said. "I think if you look at some of the other major Division-[ pro­grams, whether it's Ohio State or Oklahoma, they may not be doing it every year, but they're certainly trying to do it on a fairly regular basis." 
Pending the result of April's meeting, the Irish also would like to investigate the possibility of playing one game each season at a neutral venue that would give the team and the University more exposure, Heisler said. 
Heisler: athletic director Kevin White and others will be working until April to prepare a researched proposal on plans for structuring Notre Dame's sched­ules to seven home games, four road games and one "neutral-site" game should the NCAA approve the increase to annual 12-game seasons, Heisler said. 
The legislation, which will be sponsored by the Big East and Big Twelve conferences, would take effect beginning in 2006. Due to 
see SCHEDULE/page 22 
2005 Football Schedule 
9/3-at Pittsburgh 9/10-at Michigan 9/17-Michigan St. 9/24 -at Washington 10/1-at Purdue 10!15-usc 10/22-BYU 11/5-TENNESSEE 1'1/12 -NAVY 11/19-SYRACUSE 11/26 -at Stanford 
M1KE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Borton gives Irish experienced leadership 
One of two seniors, starting center leads team by example 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Ediwr 

-· 
Teresa Borton had a choice in 2001 -play for defending champion Notre Dame or play for the team who had won it all the year before, the Connecticut Huskies. 
Borton chose Notre Dame, and since she has been with the Irish, the team has played seven games against Connecticut, splitting the season series with the Huskies the past two years. 
"It's been pretty exciting every 


N D BASKETBALL 
McDonald's All-Am_ericans nam_ed 
Two NO signees are chosen for March 30 game at the JACC 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Two Notre Dame basketball signees will play on the Joyce Center court months before donning an Irish uniform. 
Lindsay Sehrader and Luke Zeller were named to the 2005 McDonald's All-American high school basketball teams, according to a Wednesday afternoon press release. 
Both games are set l'or 
time we get to play them," Borton said. "Sometimes we win, and sometimes they win. That shows that it was a really competitive choice because both teams are great basketball pro­grams, but I think we have much better academics." 
In her final year in an Irish uniform, Borton has emerged as one of the team's most consis­tent performers. The 6-foot-3 center is averaging a solid 8.8 points per game, third on the team behind only All-American Jacqueline Batteast (17. 7 points per game) and point guard Megan Duffy (11. 7 points per game). Borton is also second on the team in rebounding with 5.9 per game, behind Batteast's 6.6. She is also fourth in the Big East with 1.59 blocks per game. 
But Borton, who will play her last home game at the Joyce Center Saturday afternoon, doesn't see herself as a star on this Notre Dame team. 
"I consider myself a role play­er," Borton said. "I do little things. I'm not the star player, but that's all right, I don't like that role. Getting a win -that makes me happy." 
Borton, who was highly touted coming out of high school, has finally found a way to play through the aches and pains of college basketball. As a junior last year, the center had presea­son surgery to correct Haglund's Deformity, a bone protrusion in the heel that affects the Achilles tendon in the ankle. She has not missed a game through her four years, 
see BORTONIpage 22 
FENCING 
Dominant epeeist looks to cap career 
By ERIC RETTER Sporrs Writer 
It's lonely at the top. Michal 
Sobieraj 
knows, and 
he would like 
to have that 
solitude 
again this 
spring after 
the NCAA 
finals. Sob i e raj,the senior Sobieraj epeeist and elder statesman of 

the squad, is ready to cap off his already impressive career on a high note. 
"It would be nice to get an individual ring," he said. 
An NCAA individual title would be the final piece in the growing trophy case of his col­legiate career. In addition to winning a national team championship as part of the 2002-2003 team and placing 3rd and 2nd in the NCAA the last two seasons, Sobieraj has been named an All-Ameriean 
see SOBIERAJ/page 20 

March 30·. 
"Any athlete would be hon­ored to simply get nominated, but to get select­ed for the McDonald's All American Game ... as a young athlete, there's just no better feeling," chair­man of the game and leg­endary coach John Wooden said in the release. "McDonald's All American players are leaders on and off the court. It's not just athletic 

talent that makes them role 
models, but the contribution that they make to the lives around them." M o r e than 2,500 h i g h school players were nom­inated for the game with 48 b e i n g selected­
24 boys and 24 girls with 12 
see GAME/ page 22 


MEN'S SWIMMING NCAA BASKETBALL 
GOLF 
MlB 
NCAA BASKETBAll 
NBA 
LLI 
(.) 
Wie heads field in Red Sox to receive Villanova 76

Ke~elman mounts 
Temple's Chane~ 
Sixers ~et Webberz ear y success 
rings in opener

suspends himse f SBS Open Boston College 70 in six-p ayer deal 
Sacramento Kings for­
:3 
Boston's World Series 

= Sophomore Irish 
The Owls' head coach 
Fifteen-year-old 
The Wildcats joined ward Chris Webber was 

swimmer wins individ-Michelle Wie leads eight champions will receiveapologized Wednesday Notre Dame as the only 
sent to Philadelphia
c:c 

ual awards while setting 
for "reprehensibIe 
teenagers into the week-
rings in an opener 
teams to beat the 22-2 

with two teammates for=: records along the way. 
behavior." 
end open. 
against the Yankees. 
Eagles this season. 
three 76ers. 

page 21 page 16 
page 16 
page 15 page 14 page 14 





