
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Scaffolding brought down four weeks early 
Fair weather hastens Dome's regilding 
28.9 karat gold leaf is need­ed to cover the entire Dome, the fragile process, done completely by hand, can only be accomplished in wind­free, dry conditions. The chance that bad weather could prevent the Dome from being finished bef'ore its stat­ed Oct. 1 frost deadline pro­vided the University's initial reasoning for erecting scaf­folding before commence­ment. 
"The interesting thing is that the scaffolding never actually touches the Dome," Afl'leck-Graves said. "So it sways about four inches and when the wind blows it sways up to 12 inches. But this happened to be an absolutely perfect summHr. ThH weather was exception-
see DOME/page 6 

New administration acting early 

By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
Following a spring of intense dHbate over the tim­ing of the regilding of the Golden Dome, the Notre Dame landmark's facelift was completed four weeks ahead of schedule this summer thanks to ideal weather con­ditions, officials said. 
The $300,000 regilding procnss -whose Dome-hid­ing scaffolding provoked backlash last March from members of the Class of 2005 who feared the landmark would not be visible in their graduation photos -was . highly dependent upon the weather, Executive Vice 
President  John  Al'f'leck­ 
Graves said.  
Though only  a  fistful of'  


By MARY KATE MALONE Nrws Writer 
StudPnl body president .Dave Baron SJH1nt his summer with­in eyesight of' the Golden l>onw, slowly chipping away at a lofty list of goals to improvn student life on and ofT campus. 
The f'ruits of his work are already visibln. Students rPtunwd to Notre Damn to find to-go rups for their beverages in the dining halls and Transpo trolleys circling earn­pus on nnw routes to help snrvn stud11nts who want to lravtd off campus. 
But Baron and student body 
vice president Lizzie Shappell 
say these changes are only the 
bnginning. 
The South Bend City Council's unexpected passage of an ordinance meant to curb student partying has caused Baron and his staff to give greater importance to Notre 
'Damn/South Bond relations ­
a pillar of his platform from 
the beginning. 
"It is still a major priority for our administration," Baron said. "But we didn't know the 
see GOALS/page 6 


SMC hires two Holy Cross priests 
Men to divide duties between SMC and ND 
By LISA GALLAGHER 
News Writer 
freshmen are not the only new faces on the Saint Mary's campus this fall. 
Orientation weekend provided students with their first oppor­tunity to meet and spend time with the College's newest addi­tions to Campus Ministry, Father Charles "Charlie" Gordon and Father Handall "Randy" Hentner. 
"Both [Gordon and Hentnerl are Holy Cross priests, and it's really exeiting to have the Holy Cross priests be a part of the life here of the students," said Director of Campus Ministry 
see PRIESTS/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Seven new rectors join University residences 
Dorms welcome fresh faces in halls 
By ANTHONY 
IANNAMORELLI 
News Writer 
Choosing from a pool of 92 applicants, the Oflkn of Studnnl Afl'airs hirt~d seven nnw mctors over tho summer to rnplace those who left Notrn Damn al thn end of last snnwstnr. 
Kuukua Yonwkpn of' Pangborn, Sister Mary Lynch of McGlinn. Sister Janel Stankowski of Walsh, Jnnnif'nr Oliva of lloward, Haehnl Kellogg of Brenn-Phillips, Amalia de Ia Torrn of Cavanaugh and Honald Vierling of Morrissny all assumed their nnw posts upon the beginning of the 2005 school ynar. 
"We could not be happinr with those that wn have chosen," said Sistnr Jean Lnnz, assistant vio~ president of studnnt afl'airs. 
Snleetnd based on how well a University commiltnn judgnd they would fit in with a ePrlain dorm. the nnw rectors arn now entrustnd with Uw dose earn of' their dorms' residents. 
Each of the s<wen has a mas­ters degrne in education or a related field, as wnll as ext.nnsiw experience in teaching, ministry or lnadership rolns. 
N11w Cavanaugh rector de Ia 
see RECTORS/page 4 

Alleged assault reported at SMC 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
A Saint Mary's student reported that she was sexually assaulted on campus by a new acquaintance early Saturday morning, police and College officials said. 
The alleged incident took place after the student met a man at a South Bend bar and returned with him to Saint Mary's in a cab to take a walk, St. Joseph County Police said in a statement. 
The alleged victim, whose identity and age police would not release, told police she was assaulted between 2 and 2:30 
a.m. behind lloly Cross Hall, 
one of' four rnsidnnen halls on campus, the statement said. 
Police are questioning possi­ble suspnets, but no arrnsts have been made, said Commander Brent llemmerlein of the St. .Joseph County Police Family Violenen and Special Victims Unit. \In declined to give any specifies about the identities of those questionnd. 
"It is an ongoing ease and there 'is a lot of eonfidnntiality because of the sensitivity or the ease," llernmerlein said. 
After tho alleg<~d assault took place, the student contacted police and was examined at a local hospital, police said. 
see ASSAULT/page 4 

r-------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Good advice 
not just for 


freshmen 

Good advice is something we all need in our lives, especially during times of change. Most likely if you are reading this article, you are finding that you are facing a time of transition -­
Kelly Meehan 

and I am not just 
talking about 
freshmen. News 
At some point Production in our lives we 
Editor 

have all received adviCe about col­lege -whether it be from our seemingly paranoid parents warn­ing us of the dangers of partying or from campus security threatening us with tickets for improper park­ing -and it is all up to us to take the information to heart. 
I would like to offer you a piece of advice that you may have never heard before. However, I guarantee it will make your life and the lives of others much better. This advice is to simply be considerate of other people's pet peeves. 
I know, this may sound a bit strange or maybe even obvious at first, but there are a few things I would like to point out. 
You are now living among thou­sands of other students and coming in close contact with them on a daily basis. It is important to take some of your everyday actions into consideration. 
For ex!lmple, do you really think the girl in front of you appreciates the fact that you have decided to tap the back leg of her desk with your foot for the entire duration of calc class? 
Or how do you think your friends really feel about your "hilarious" "Baby Got Back" techno remix ringtone that blares several times a day? I doubt they are thinking it is very funny anymore. 
Maybe you could consider your roommates when you decide to hit snooze four times at 8 a.m because you really do not want to shower before class anyway. 
And I know everyone enjoys the occasionally leisurely walk -how­ever, you might want to pick up the pace when you are walking on a main sidewalk two minutes before class starts. Everyone has some­where to go, so save that slow stroll for a Sunday afternoon. 
Perhaps you have complete con­trol of your feet, only set a simple ring tone on your cell phone, and are a fast walker at all times. Still, take some time today to see if there is something you can change to make others' lives a little easier. 
So as you are meeting new friends in these next few weeks and are asking the same cliche questions, such as "Where are you from?" and "Do you call it pop or soda?" stop and ask, "So, what are your pet peeves?" It is a great con­versation starter that can lead to lasting, peaceful relationships. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Aug. 24 edition ofThe Observer, it was mistakenly reported that the International Student Orientation would take place today from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. The orientation evenr actually took place last Thursday. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, August 25, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE CONSTRUCTION GOING ON AROUND CAMPUS? 









Brian McCarthy  Leslie Follmer  G. Dillon Murphy  Pablo Nava  Christian Brown  Drew Beatty  
senior offcampus  senior offcampus  second year MBA  sophomore Siegfried  junior Alumni  junior Alumni  
"O'Leary is a legend! He built the Gug."  "What construction?"  "It's great. Of course, it won 't be done until they're asking us for money. "  "Itfrightens and confuses me!"  "Is that what my tuition went to?"  "I think the new entrance and all the dirt mounds look nice."  

IN·BRIEF 
The Graduate Student Union is holding a picnic tonight from 
5:30 p.m. to 7:30 for graduate, law and MBA students in the Fischer-O'Hara-Grace parking lot. 
Burt Levy, an author and vin­tage European sports car spe­cialist, will give a lecture tonight entitled "Italian Carrozzerie: Sculpture with Soul, Speed, Passion and Purpose." The event will be held from 7 p.m. to 9 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. The event is free and open to the public. 
The volleyball team will face off against Michigan at 7 p.m. Saturday in the Joyce Center Arena. 
Photographs by Sebastiao Salgado will be exhibited from 
8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. beginning Sunday in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries II and III of the Snite Museum of Art. The photo­graphs are on loan from the 


SOFIA BALLON/The Observer 
Students who were abroad with the spring London program gathered in the Hurley courtyard for a reception Wednesday to visit with each other and vote for the best student pictures taken while studying overseas. 
OFFBEAT 
Escaped peacock returns home safely after summer 
CHICHESTER, N.H. ­Daryl the escaped peacock had a magical summer. He scavenged for bugs and raid­ed gardens, roaming freely, while his mate, Darla the peahen, nested at home. But all good things come to an end. 
Daryl was caught last week, four months after he escaped (probably frightened by a coyote) and 10 miles from home. 
Over the summer, Daryl dodged cars on Route 4, was sighted numerous times but always eluded capture. In the end, he was caught with 

patio furniture and cracked com. His owner, Wendy Cassetta, is amazed by his safe return. 
"It gives me heart palpita­tions to think of how many of his lives he used up out there," said Cassetta of Chichester. 
Daryl's reunion with Darla and Cassetta can be credited to Susan lntinarelli of Pembroke. 
Meth dealer tosses out trash instead of drugs 
A suspected metham­phetamine dealer was arrested after he tossed a bag of trash from a truck instead of the bag con­
• Yancey Richardson Gallery in New York. 

taining the drug, police The Show, featuring bands said. Akon and Cake, will take place 
Jason Coates, 35, of Friday at 8 p.m. in the Joyce Tracy, "was visibly shaken Center. Doors open at 7. when he was told he had Students must bring a valid ID tossed the wrong bag" card to gain admittance. Tickets while being pursued by are $10 and may be purchased police in a car chase last at the LaFortune Box Office. week, Alameda County Sheriff's Deputy Steve The annual International Angeja said. Undergraduate Getting 
Coates was charged Acquainted Dinner will take Monday with possession place Sunday from 6 p.m. to of methamphetamine for 7:30 in the Welsh Family Hall sale, possessing a firearm lounge. while selling drugs and evading police. He is held To submit information to be on $255,000 bail. included in this section of The 
Observer, e-mail detailed infor­Information compiled mation about an event to from the Associated Press. obsnews@nd. edu 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
¢: ....I c( (.) 


...I 0 HIGH 81 HIGH 61 HIGH 83 HIGH 83 HIGH 85 HIGH 83 LOW 60 "LOW 50 LOW 66 LOW 63 LOW 64 LOW 61 
Atlanta 88 I 69 Boston 73 I 62 Chicago 80 I 62 Denver 86 I 60 Houston 95 I 77 Los Angeles 80 I 64 Minneapolis·82 160 New York 85 I 65 Philadelphia 86 I 64 Phoenix 99 I 85 Seattle 79 I 55 St. Louis 86 I 72 Tampa 93 178 Washington 85 167 
Thursday, August 25, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SENATE 

Group opens year vvith diversity 
By MADDIE HANNA Associat<' News Editor 
Thn first Senate mneting or thfl ynar operwd Wml rwsday night with an issun that has qukkly lwromn a hot t.opie at the University-divnrsit.y. 
Iris Outlaw, diroclor or multi­rultural student programs and snrvin•s, Pnl~ouragml senators to pronwte div1wsity at Notrn Dame by wearing blue and gold rubber hra1~nlnts imprintnd with the phrase "Diversity MattPrs@ ND." 
"Wn know how you'vn all bonn wnaring these runky little hraenlnts." Outlaw said, rnliwring to trends likn tlw popular "l.ivnstrong" ynllow band. 
Outlaw said the "sehisrn" that opmwd last year -a likely rnrer­nnen to t.ho firing or former Irish lwad football coach Tyrone Willingham -promptlHI the University to se1~k a visibln sym­bol of its eommitnwnt to divnrsity. 
"Wo thought we needed to rmmify us as a eomrnunity. factrl­ty, starr and studnnts," Outlaw 
said. "Wo wantnd to show Notrn Danw was a wel­mrning plaeo." 
The braeolnts are !wing spon­sornd by the Ollicn of the Pn~sident, tho Graduate School, the Institute for Latino Studies, 
M u I t i c u I t u r a I Student Programs and S1)rvic:es. the 

SOFIA Observer Iris Outlaw, director of multicultural student programs and services, handed out diversity bracelets to Senate members Wednesday. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Student body president Dave Baron announced the oflicial cre­ation of the Minority Affairs Committee, chaired by Hhea 
Boyd, and 
"We wanted to show Notre Dame was a welcoming place." 
Iris Outlaw director of multicultural student 
programs and services 
the Community He lations Committee, chaired by Nick Guzman. 
Baron also men­tioned his excite­ment for University President Father John Jenkins' upeoming inaugu­ration. 
"It's a really eool time," Baron said. "We have the abili­ty to set the tone 

Provost Of'liee and the Office of for students for the entire the Vkn Prnsidnnt for Student Jenkins administration." ;\flitirs. So far, 10,000 have bmm + NDBay.com is up and run­printnd. ning, chief executive assistant Liz 
Kozlow said. The Web site, for­merly run by recent graduates Chris Kelly and Aaron Wenger, has been purchased by Student Government and will be run by a joint advisory committee along with the Student Business Board. 
+ 
Director of Communications Steve Miller said the first edition of campus-wide Stall Notes will come out next week. 

+ 
Residence Life Committee chair Mark Seiler said to-go cups have been placed in the dining halls as a pilot program this semester. 

+ 
Those interested in Student Government are invited to a "Student Government 101" meet­ing next Wednesday from 8 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. 


Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Nevv FedEx Kinko's opens on cainpus 
Business moves into Grace Hall, LaFortune 
By LISA SCHULTZ News Writer 

The window to the copy shop in the basement of' Grace llall still reads ND. but there is nothing Irish about the bright purple wall inside. 
The new paint is the beginning of transforming the appearance or the old ND Copy Shop into what is now tho first or two on­campus FedEx Kinko's loca­
tions. Matthew Erstn, FedEx Kin ko 's major account manag­er, said not all of the usual FedEx Kinko's signago is in place yet because FedEx Kinko's typical­ly takes twice as long to arrange a new 

"From our perspective, these are two new retail 
spaces. 
Matthew Erste FedEx Kinko's major account manager 
"From our perspective, these are two now retail spaces, he said. 
Ilowever. he also said Kinko's began on eollegn campuses in California and the eom pany is "nxeitnd to 

location than it has in Grace Hall. 
The presence of a FedEx Kinko's on campus comes as a result of a University review of the copy centers. The new arrangement includes an additional FedEx Kinko's, which is scheduled to assume the 
current LaFortune Copy Shop location during fall break. Erstn said. This location will put the busi­ness right in thn middle or campus, an area with high student trafTic. 
"Kinko's bPtwf'its because we are clos«~r to our mar­knt," Erste said. 
Erstn also said Fl'dl·:x Kinko's is leasing the two l1~cations from the University, and will treat them as thny would any ofT­campus loeation. 
be part of the University." 
;\s such, Erste speculated that FedEx Kinko's will " p r o b a b I y s p o n so r so nw ­thing down the road. lw it a concert or handing out free eofTee." 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 

Be a planeteer. Recycle The Observer. 

Everything you need for high-speed Internet access. 
Sign up for the SBC Student Plan 
SBC Yahoo! DSL Express + Your Local Access Line 
as low as 



$ 
75* 

a month for a g-month term! 
*Otfler mont/Jfy charges apply. 

Taxes, other charges and the Federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. For details of additional charges, restrictions and requirements, callt-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.com/u. SBC. the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. ©2005 SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. All rights reserved. IN 
..---------~-----­
page 4 Thursday, August 25, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Priests 
continued from page 1 
Judith Fean. 
The two men are replacing Father Joseph Carey, also a Holy Cross priest, who minis­tered to the College for five years before announcing his retirement fro·m the position last April. 
Gordon said he was approached about the opportu­nity by his provincial superior, the person in charge of the Congregation of the Holy Cross (CSC). 
"Since the very beginning of the esc. the tradition has been that we participate in one another's apostolics," Gordon said, referring to the relation­ship between the brothers, sis­ters and priests of the CSC. For this reason, Gordon applied and accepted the position. 
Hiring two priests instead of one was a move unexpected by members of the College commu­nity. However, Fean said the choice was a good one for this year, and the men will be divid­ing the responsibilities of the position equally. 
"For this year we are very excited to have [both Rentner and Gordon]. We're going to look at how this year pans out and move from there as time goes on," Fean said. "They agreed to split up the masses and special liturgies; we have parent weekends like Sophomore Parent Weekend, Junior Moms, etc. So we'll be having a diversity of priests able to celebrate with our communi­~" . 
Fean stressed the College will continue to maintain the same Mass schedule as last year, so the same opportunities will be available to students. 
In addition to Mass, confes­sion and Eucharistic admira­tion, Carey's duties on campus included leading a Bible study session called "Breaking Open the Word," which helped pre­pare students for the upcoming liturgy, and serving as campus liaison to Holy Cross and Annunciata halls. The latter tra­dition will no longer continue, Fean said. 
"Anyone from any residence hall can ask anyone in Campus Ministry to work with them in collaboration with enhancing the faith life and spiritual life in the halls," she said. 
As for the liturgy preparation Carey's Bible study provided for 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
Hemmerlein declined to com­ment on whether any evidence of rape was found during the exam. He also declined to com­ment on whether the student suffered any physical injuries during the alleged incident. 
The Saint Mary's student body was notified of the alleged incident by Director of Security Dave Chapman in an e-mail sent out Sunday at noon. In it, he said every resource was being made available to the student. The e­mail did not describe the alleged assault as a sexual assault, but Chapman sent out a second e-mail 24 hours later clarifying its nature. 
"I understand there have been some questions about the nature of the assault and I want to be very clear about what took place," Chapman students, each of the Saint Mary's campus ministers will share responsibility in leading it. 
"Our hope . . . is to enable our peer ministry, our students here, to be able to [be Eucharistic ministers, preachers and lead prayer services] because they can do that in their parishes upon gradua­tion," Fean said. 
Divvying duties may lessen the burden on the two priests, who both have full-time com­mitments to Notre Dame as well as Saint Mary's. Gordon is a professor of theology at the University, while Rentner is a student completing his doctoral dissertation in education per­sonnel. He recently moved back to the South Bend area from New York to attend Notre Dame. 
Rentner said be does not think his responsibilities as a priest at Saint Mary's and his commit­ment as a Notre Dame student will be a difficult balance to maintain. 
"I see myself as being part of the balance," he said. 
Fean said Campus Ministry staff -including another new member, Minister Regina Wilson -and the entire Saint Mary's community are excited and thankful these priests have offered their services to the College. 
"[We] look forward to how this evolves," Fean said. "That doesn't mean that some point down the road we might not have a full-time [priest]." 
The two priests are looking forward to working with the students in the upcoming year, Gordon said. 
"I was very impressed by the amount of background [each student possessed] with their faith and their level of enthusi­asm for participating in Campus Ministry," he said. 
While most students were sad to see Carey leave, they also look forward to this new begin­ning and getting to know the new ministers. 
"It's hard for someone to replace Father Joe, but I was very impressed with Father Randy," junior Rosemary Walsh said after attending Sunday's Mass. "He seems to be a great fit for Saint Mary's, and his homily was pertinent. I am look­ing forward to getting to know and spending time with Father Randy on my faith journey." 
Contact Lisa Gallagher at lgallaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


said in the second e-mail. 
Chapman then urged stu­dents to travel in groups when they go out and to be cautious with new acquaintances. 
Security on campus is not being increased in any way in response to the alleged assault, College spokeswoman Melanie McDonald said. 
"Our security is excellent, and there are all kinds of efforts in place to keep our students safe," McDonald said. 
McDonald cited call boxes scattered around campus and security escorts from parking lots as examples. Security also offers students tips on how to stay safe on the department's Web site1 she said. 
"There is always the possi­bility of something unfortunate to occur, and sometimes the students need to take some of that into their own hands," McDonald said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Rectors 
continued from page 1 

Torre is a mother of three who has spent the last two years in fund development for Mary Imogene Basset Hospital in Cooperstown, N.Y. She has worked with at-risk children and taught at the high school level. She has a master's degree in policy analysis and manage­ment from Indiana University at Bloomington. 
Breen-Phillips rector Kellogg, a South Bend native with a master's degree in English from Indiana University, taught English composition for the last year at the University of Saint Francis in Fort Wayne, Ind. She also worked as an advisor to the student newspaper. 
Before becoming rector of McGlinn, Lynch was the Formation Director for candi­dates at the Mount Saint Joseph Convent in Philadelphia, Penn. She has a master's degree in spiritual direc­tion from Seminary in Milwaukee. 
Before coming to Walsh, Stankowski worked for Voices for Earth Justice, an interfaith non-profit organization dedicat­ed to environmental causes that she co-founded. Stankowski earned her doctorate of min­istry degree from the Graduate Theological Union in South Bend. In her time as a minister, she has worked with college students in Florida and 
Chestnut  Hill  "The greatest joy is  Kentucky,  ex­ 
College and master's in the­ology from Notre  the biggest challenge­ offenders and those suffering from AIDS.  
Dame. She has  ministering to  New Morrissey  
spent more than  youth.''  rector Vierling  
10 years minis­ received his mas­ 
tering to college students on  Ronald Vierling  ter's from Holy Apostles College  
campuses such  Morrissey rector  in Cromwell, CT.  

as Princeton, North Carolina State and the University of North Carolina. 
Oliva, of Howard, has served as Director of Youth Ministry at St. Matthias Parish in Milwaukee, Wis. for the last six years. Her responsibilities ranged from training catechists, leading youth groups and coor­dinating programs. She has a master's degree in pastoral studies from St. Francis He is a member 
of the Oblates of Mary at the Foot of the Cross. He has been active in teaching, ministry and parish administra­tion, and served as chair of the theology department. He was ordained in 1992 in the Archdiocese of New York. 
Originally from Ghana, Africa, Yomekpe received her master's in English from the University of Dayton two years ago. She taught English composition there for a year and was active in literary festivals, writing labs and mentoring before becoming Pangborn's rector. She organ­ized the University of Dayton's African Literature Conference for 2002-03. As an in-residence campus minister there, she was responsible for 1,200 students along with organizing a service trip to Haiti. 
Outgoing rectors were helpful in the transition, some new rec­tors said. 
"[Former Howard rector Kathy Brannock] left great files, and everything was totally organized for me to just walk in and start right up," Oliva said. 
Many new rectors stressed service and ministry as some­thing that will be paramount to their dorm's agenda. 
"The greatest joy is the biggest challenge -ministering to youth," Vierling said. 
De Ia Torre said that although the rector position is one job, there are many roles to fill within it. 
"You must be an administra­tor, counselor, psychologist, manager, minister and parent figure," she said. "But that only scratches the surface." 
Contact Anthony lannamorelli at iannamorelli.l@nd.edu 

International Study Programs 

INNSBRUCK and Berlin 
2006-2007 Acadentic Year 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program Information Session 
Wednesday, August 31,2005 118 DeBartolo 7:00PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud Questions?-Weber.JS@nd.cdu Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, Augusr 25, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Fires rage in Northern Portugal 
LISBON -Wildl'irns l'larnd again around Portugal's third-larg1~st eity Wndnnsday, just hours arter firefighters brought them undnr eontrol after lighting a dozen blazes this week. 
Morn than 540 firelighters supportod by 150 lin~ trucks and seven air tankers were battling blazes in the Coimbra district alone. They also were working in the central and northern dis­trir.L'i of Porto, Santan~rn. Vila Hoal, Viseu. 
Four mon• people wore arrested Wednesday on suspicion of arson-raising to 122 tho num­ber of peopln dotaiiwd this year on suspieion of dnlibnrately starting fires. Eighty people were arrestnd lcL'it year liJr arson in Portugal. 
Rival Shiites dash, add to Iraq crisis 
BACIIDAD-Clashes nrupted between rival Shiite groups across the Shiite-domi­nated south Wednesday, threatnning Iraq with yot anothnr crisis at a time when politieians an1 struggling to ond a constitu­tional stalemate with Sunni Arabs. 
Thn confrontation in at least five south­orn ritios -involving a radical Shiite loader who led two uprisings against U.S. forcos last year -followed the boldest assault by Sunni insurgents in wenks in the rapital. 
l>ozm1s of insurgents wearing black uni­forms and masks attacked Iraqi police in wostern Baghdad with multiple ear bombs and small-arms lire that killed at least 13 people and wounded 43, police said. 
The new violence earnn as the Pc.ntagon announc1HI it was ordering 1,500 para­troopers from the X2nd Airborne Division to Iraq to provide security for the scheduled Oct. I 5 refen~ndum on tlw proposed consti­tution and thn l>ncmnbcr national elections. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Muslims urge Bush to support Islam 
I'LAINFII\LD. Ind. -A leading U.S. Muslim group called on President Bush Wednesday to show his support for main­stream Islam in this country and worldwide by mnnting with thn group next week in Chicago. 
Bush could make a pownrful statement to the world's I .2 billion Muslims by appearing at the annual mneting of the lslamie Society of North America, just as he showed his support for adherents of the religion when he visitod a Washington mosque a few days after the Sept. 11, 200 I, terrorist attacks, said Sayyid Synod, the group's sncretary gmwral. 
Katrina nears hurricane status 
MIAMI -A hurricane warning was issund for tho southeast Florida coast late Wndnesday and people were advised to take safety precautions in advanee of a late Thursday strike by a growing Tropical Storm Katrina. 
Katrina was expeeted to reach hurricane strength as it movBd west from the Bahamas and across the Gulf Stream, said forecastl~rs at the National Hurricane Center. 
Tlw forecast path appeared eentered on tlw Miami-Fort Laudnrdaln area, but fore­casters warrwd that the storm could easily slip morn to tho north or south before mak­ing landfall early Friday. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Campaign director pleads guilty 
INDIANAPOLIS-The former exoeutive director of the state senate Hepublican cam­paign eommitteB pleaded guilty Wednesday to stmtling thousands of dollars from the group and filing a false campaign linance report. 
Under the terms of a plea bargain agreement, Bradley llillor will face up to 18 months in prison and be finml mmrly $147,000. 
"This is a casn whern someone in a position of responsibility siphoned off a considerable amount of monoy to line his own pockets," Marion County Prosncutor Carl Brizzi said in a statmunnt. 
Historic bases stay open, others to close 
Federal Commission decision would save thousands of New England jobs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Bucking the Pentagon, a federal commission preserved a major military presonce in New England on Wednesday by keeping open two historic Navy facilities that together provide 12,000 jobs for a dofensn­dependent economy. 
The independent panni sped through the first day of its final decisions on the plan it will send to President Bush, who can aeeept it or order changes. Congress also has a ehanee to veto the plan, but has not taken that step in four pre­vious rounds of closures. 
The commission signed off on most of the Pentagon's plans to elose, shrink or expand hundreds of small and large Army and Navy facilities from coast to coast. It has yet to take up any Air Foree pro­posals, ineluding tho con­tentious question of whether the service can strip aireraft from about two dozen Air National Guard facilities across the eountry. 

Later this week, the corn­mission will considor that proposal as well as the one that has caused the most political consternation, the Groton, Conn., two of the terrorist threats. or the submarine base, Air Foree's attempt to close Navy's oldest bases. Commissioners had tho which former President Ellsworth Air Force Base in "Yahoo!" exclaimed Sen. same concerns. Carter. a dozen admirals South Dakota, home to Joe Lieberman, D-Conn. The survival of the two and high-ranking Congress freshman Sen. John Thune. "Submarine base New bases marked big wins for members opposed, would I le argued during tho 2004 London lives, and I think New England eongressional have cost about S,OOO jobs, campaign that he -not that it will live forever." delegations and governors. and closing the shipyard Senate Minority Leader Tom Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.II., Even as the commission would havn cost 4,000, Daschle -would be in a who urged the commission was voting, eleeted ollidals some estimated. Many morn better position to save tho to save the shipyard in from those and other states jobs at businesses that facility, but it showed up on Maine near the New -sueh as Sen. Kay Bailey depend on the bases also the Pentagon's closure list Hampshire border, added: Hutchison, H-Texas, Gov. were at risk. anyway. "This is a sweet victory." Jeb Bush of Florida and Tho commission did, how­
In some of its first deci­Congressional delega­Thune -attended the ever, deeidn to dose Naval sions, the commission voted tions, retired Navy officers hearing and served as visu­Air Station Brunswiek in to keep open sevnral major and others had fiercely lob­al reminders of their e!Torts. Maino, rather than drasti­Army and Navy bases that bied the commission to Some analysts have said cally roduee forces there as military planners want to spare the two bases, argu­closing both the shipyard the Pentagon wanted. shut down. including the ing that the economic and the submarine base Commissioners argued that Portsmouth shipyard in impaet would be devastat­would devastated the econ­savings eould be realized Kittery, Maino, and the New ing and the region would be omy along the coast from more quickly if it wnre shut London submarine base in unprotected in the face of Maine to Rhode Island. Loss down altognther. 

CHINA 

Chinese, Russian troops participate in war games 
Associated Press part Cao Gangquan, telling him the between them. 
unprecedented war games showed Chinese and Hussian generals have 
SIIANGI-IAI-Thousands of Chinese their "strategic cooperative partner­sought to reassure the region that the and Russian troops launched a mock ship has entered into a new stage," exercises aren't directed against any amphibious landing on a Chinese China's of!icial Xinhua News Agency other nation. Under a lietional see­beach Wednesday as Moscow's said. nario, the forces have a U.N. mandate defonse minister said the joint war Cao replied that the exercises deep­to stabilize a country plunged into vio­games underscore a growing strategic ened trust and cooperation in .military lence by ethnie strife. partnership between the former Cold affairs and had an important realistic Yet, Chinese mndia and military War adversaries. significance and profound historic analysts say the exereises also arc 
Chinese state television showed fog impaet on the safeguarding of region­aimed at showing Washington that and rain blanketing the coast of the al and world peace and security." Russia and China ean respond to northern Chinese province of The eight-day exereise, dubbed provocations, especially over Taiwan, Shandong as landing craft disgorged "Peace Mission 2005" and expected to which China has vowed to reclaim by troops and amphibious tanks and end Thursday, involved about 7,000 force if nneessary. armored vehicles in the heavy surf. Chinese troops and 1,800 Russians, The two nations have also been 
Bombers and lighter jets attaeked along with state-of-the-art warships, unnerved by U.S. deployments in tho imaginary targets on shore as soldiers warplanes and armor. Central Asia and have used their charged through seaside scrub and Although the two nations have pre­dominancn of the six-nation Shanghai rappelled down ropes from helicop­viously participated in border security Cooperation Organization -whose ters. exercises involving other Central Asia defense ministers arn observing the 
Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov met eountries, the joint war games rPpre­drills -to dfmlitnd withdrawals of Wednesday with his Chinese counter-sent the first real military cooperation American forees. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, August 25, 2005 
Goals 
continued from page 1 
issue was going to be put on the table this summer. I was involved in that and tried to communicate our position that it was being passed without adequate input from the stu­dents." 
Baron said he has been in contact with Ann Pazello, council member of the fourth district of the city of South Bend, and Ann Carol Nash, assistant city attorney. 
"We'll coordinate legal defense if it's necessary but hopefully it's not," Baron said. "We plan to make sure stu­dents are treated fairly and that they receive a warning 
before any actions are taken
I
' .
I against them." The issue of community rela­tions is the probable topic for student government's fall Board of Trustees report, Baron said. The twice-yearly presentation is given by stu­dent government officials and reports on student life as it currently exists to the 
Do01e 
continued from page 1 
a.I" 
In the spring, after weeks of negotiation with senior repre­sentatives, Affleck-Graves ordered the scaffolding removed to the base of the Dome in time for graduation. 
Longer labor hours over the summer helped make up for the work days missed during the temporary take-down, Aflleck-Graves said. 
Now, nearly five months later, the regilding is finally complete. Additional painting and landscaping around the Main Building will be complet­ed by Sept. 9, head of business operations Jim Lyphout said. 
In late May, then-University President-elect Father John Jenkins, then-University President Father Edward Malloy and Affleck-Graves toured the top of the Dome to view the regilding process firsthand. 
"When you get up there it was amazing to see the dam­University's chief governing body. 
More of Baron's administra­tion's handiwork will be seen sooner than that in various facets of student life -from the newly purchased online textbook trading site NDBay to a men's sexual assault aware­ness group. 
Student government recently spent $5,000 to purchase NDBay, an online book-trading site previously owned and operated by recent Notre Dame graduates Chris Kelly and Aaron Wenger. 
"We hope to make it accessi­ble through AFS IDs and t9 integrate ticket share for foot­ball and basketball tickets online," Baron said. 
Like his predecessor, Adam Istvan, Baron also plans to devote a significant amount of student government's energy to improving minority rela­tions on campus. 
"We have a newly created minority affairs committee in place which allows for minori­ties to have a louder voice on policy issues," Baron said. "They will look at the diversity double count requirement and 


age," Affleck-Graves said. "It surprised me. It was cracked and discolored with blue blobs on it. Boy, when you were that close you could see it had to get done." 
The last regilding was done 17 years ago. Affleck-Graves said he hopes the latest touch­ups, including work on the Main Building itself, will last for at least 15 years. In addi­tion to the regilding, the paint was completely stripped from the tower of the Main Building -a job done far less often. 
"The tower has to have the paint taken off completely," Affleck-Graves said. "In the 70s they did a really good job of putting on a clean base. We only have to do that every 50 years and every other time we're essentially re-painting it." 
Despite the student outcry in the spring against the Dome regilding, Affleck-Graves said commencement beneath a par­tially uncovered Dome was peaceful. · 
"The amazing thing was that at commencement not one per­son spoke to me about [the re-
1-800-KAP-TEST 
kaptest.com/law 

work on a proposal that is beneficial but not too onerous to students." 
Plans for reaching more con­crete goals are also in the works. Cheaper copies at the new FedEx Kinko's, further discussion on the College Readership Program, and speakers for the first Catholic Think Tank lecture series are all on Baron and Shappell's to­do list. 
The approaching inaugura­tion of University President Father John Jenkins makes this year an especially exciting one, Baron said. 
"I know Father Jenkins, in planning his inauguration, made students a priority, and that's a sign of what this administration is going to be about and I'm extremely encouraged," he said. 
Shappell is equally optimistic for the upcoming year. 
"We're excited," she said. "We have a full plate, but we have a great group of commit­tees to get the job done." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
gilding controversy]," Affleck­Graves said. "I think generally the response was that they appreciated us taking it down to the level of the gutter [of the Dome).". 
And last week, students returned to campus to find themselves beneath the watch­ful stare of a brighter-than­ever Virgin Mary. 
"It was a special treat to come back to," senior Kyle Clements said. "Obviously it was a lot brighter and I could tell a big difference." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Anthropologist lives college freslunan year 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX -As a professor at Northern Arizona University, Cathy Small was baffled by undergraduates. They seemed less engaged, less likely to do assigned read­ing and more likely to ask questions like "Do you want it 
double~spaced?" 

So she decided to study them as anthropologists research any foreign culture -she lived among them. 
After moving into a dorm, eating cafeteria food and struggling with a five-course schedule, Small said she empathized with students who struggle to balance chaotic class and work schedules. 
"I'm trying to get really to what student culture is doing and tailor my teaching," said Small, who wrote a book on her research under the pseu­donym Rebekah Nathan called "My Freshman Year: What a Professor Learned by Becoming a Student." 
Small took a sabbatical and spent the 2002-2003 school year conducting her research. With approval from the uni­versity's research board, she used her high school tran­script to get admitted and moved into a dorm -though she did forgo the roommate experience by getting a single room. 
Small spent the first semes­ter taking classes outside her field of expertise, trying to immerse herself in student life. She didn't go to her Flagstaff home and didn't contact regular friends, trying to experience the loneliness and other travails of freshman life. 
During her second semester, she did more formal inter­views and focused on the research, which she published without identifying students or the university, although it eventually was outed by the media. 
Small said she found that students downplayed publicly the effort they put into assigned reading or papers, but when interviewed, many said they were interested in their course work. 
Her surveys also found that only about a third of what stu­dents were talking and think­ing about outside of class was based on their course work. 
That finding has led Small to change her coursework to better connect to the real world and to skip reading assignments that don't have a direct purpose. 
Part of the trick to college life, she learned from good students, was being able to quickly decipher what work needed to be done and what could be skipped. Those man­agement skills helped stu­dents balance classes, part­time work and involvement in volunteer or professional groups, Small said. 
She found some of the coursework tough and had to seek tutoring for a class far outside her field of study. "It was a hectic life," she said. 
Small also said she found current undergraduates faced more pressure to pick a major that readily translated into a job that could pay off student loans. 

Need a job this fall? 
The Development Phone Centeris hiring! 
20-25 STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Call alumni. parents and friends on behalf 
of Notre Dame's Annual Fund.  
•  NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY  
•  GREAT ENVIRONMENT  
•  EVENING HOURS  
•  PAID TRAINING  
•  MERIT PAY INCREASES  

OPEN HOUSE  
When:  Today, Wed., Aug 24th 10:00 om to 4:00 pm  
Where:  Third floor, Groce Hall  
Why:  For information, applications, and to meet us  

Questions? Coii"The Kellys"-Kelly McMahon or Julio Kelly at 631-3152. 
Make money, win prizes, and build your resume. Apply Today! 

Notre Dame 
ANNUAL FUND 

----··--·· .. -.--· ----------·-----··· ---··--· -·----... ·-------·-·-·-·--··-··---. -------·.--·-· ·--···---­
---·--···---------------------­

Test Prep and Adml$elo118 


THE 0HSERVER 

USINESS
Thursday, August 25, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
·Dow 
10,434.87 -87.71

}ones 
.<&:. 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,447 lBO -· 1,702,333,520 

AMEX 1,618.68 +7.61 
NASDAQ 2,128.91 -8.34 
NYSE 7,417.42 -36.36 
S&PSOO I ,209.59 0.00 
NIKK£l(Tokyo) 12,405.16 -97.10 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,275.20 -25.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ)  -0.59  -0.23  38.50  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.22  -0.06  26.81  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -1.35  -0.24  17.52  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -0.74  -0.19  25.53  
BEACON POWER CORP (BCON) -8.44  -0.40  4.34  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.16  -0.07  43.98  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.19  -0.08  41.79  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.10  -0.04  40.45  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.29  -0.10  34.30  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.61  67.32  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  -2.10  442.20  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.93  80.53  
Excha  Rates  

YEN I 09.8900 EURO 0.8128 POUND 0.5535 CANADIAN$ 1.1894 
IN BRIEF 
Conde Nast to start business magazine 
NI\W YOHK-Conde Nast Publications Inc., tho publishnr of' Vanity Fair and Vogue, said Wndrwsday it will start up a monthly business magazine, tho company's lirst foray into the business magazine world. 
Tho still-unnamnd magazine has no launch dato. but Conde Nast said it hired Joanne l.iprnan, a deputy managing editor of The Wall Str·ont Journal, as its editor-in-chief'. 
Conde Nast, ownod by privately-held eom­munieations eompany Advance Publieations Ine.. also named David Carey, viee president and publisher of The New Yorker, president of' the now businoss magazine group. 
The nnw publieation will be part of a nnw businoss news group within Conde Nast. The group will publish business news online, along with its monthly magazine. 
Lipman will bn involved with developing a prototype of' Conde Nast's new business maga­zine and she will bn involved with assembling its stall'. 
Court extends deadline for ATA 
WASHINGTON -The bankruptcy court ovorsneing the Chapter 11 ease of' ATA Airlines lne. extended the company's sole right to file a reorganization plan to Sept. 30. 
An order issued Tuesday by the U.S. Bankruptey Court in Indianapolis also nxttmdnd ATA's exclusive right to lobby cred­itors for support to Nov. 30. 
Bankruptey law rnquirns companies oper­ating under Chapter 11 to submit a plan out­lining how ernditors will be paid. 
Hxdusive periods that prevent other par­ties from submitting such plans to the court allow tlw company to retain control of' the restructuring proenss without outside inter­l'erencn. 
Tlw Indianapolis-based airline. owned by ATA Holdings Corp., filed for Chapter 11 pro­toetion in Oetober 2004. 
According to eourt papers, the airline ini­tially had sought to extend its sole right to file a plan to Nov. 10 and move the deadline l'or its exclusive solidtation period to Jan. 9, 200(J. An attorney for the airline said Wnd rwsday tho nnw dates refleet a request madn during a roennt hearing, but declined to nlaboratn on why the change was madn. 
Oil prices hit record high, stocks sink 
Drop wipes out yesterday's surge after Energy Department report brings briefrise 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Stocks sank amid increasing pessimism on Wall Street Wednesday, shedding early gains after oil prices reached another record high and a mix of' data provided conf'licting views on the economy. 
The surge in erucic prices wiped out tho advanee that followed the Energy Department's latest invento­ry report, which showed a strong buildup of heating oil and distillate stoeks. Concerns about a drawdown in <Tude oil and a tropical storm threatening oil facili­ties pushed crude futures to a new record. A barrel of light crude surged $1.(11 to settle at $67.32 on the New York M(1rcantilo Exehange, surpassing the previous record settlement of' $(J6.86 pnr bam1l on Aug. 12. 
Thn market's narlier momentum grow out of tho Commnree Department's latest report on new home sales, which rose to an annualized 1.41 million units, better than the 1.328 million homo sales expected. But the government also reported a sharp dedine in orders for big-ticket manu­factured goods -leading 

James O'Callaghan, right, of J&D Securities, compares notes with Jeffrey Vazquez of Merrill 
investors to wonder whether 

Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange Tuesday. 
an economic slowdown was imminent. 7.98, or 0.65 percent, to dollar was mixed against $2.07 to $50, KB Home 
"In all you're seeing sort 1,209.59-falling back into other major currencies, jumped $1.24 to $72.20 and of a mixed reaetion out negative territory for the while gold prices l'ell. Lnnnar Corp. rose $1.17 to there," said Brian year. The Nasdaq composite Investors startnd the ses­$60.10. Ynt even the hous­Williamson, an equity trader index dropped 8.34, or 0.39 sion with the Commerce ing report carried a caveat at The Boston Company percent, to 2,128.91. Department's report that -while sales are up, the Asset Management. "The oil Volume was light, which is durable goods -items average price ol' a nnw data was good because or typical for late August, but designed to last at least home fell. the distillates, but you're that only magnified stocks' three years-fell 4.9 per­"Although there was some still seeing oil prices higher volatility and possibly exag­cent in July, a sharp drop eneouragement by nnw beeause of demand. And gerated Wall Street's reac­from the 1.9 percent climb homes sales rising, pricns we're seeing a lot of volatili­tion to oil prices and the in June and far steeper than dedined. That suggests we ty across the board." economic news. the 1.5 percent drop eeono­are possibly getting a 
The Dow Jones industrial Bonds traded in a narrow mists had expected. dedine in prices, and that's average fell 84.71, or 0.81 range throughout the day, However, the home sales not good l'or consumer percent, to 1 0,434.87. with the yield on the 10-year report helped home builder spending," said II ugh 
Broader stoek indicators Treasury note steady falling stocks rebound from the .lohnson. ehairman· and also lost ground. The to 4.17 percent from 4.18 previous session's losses. chief' investnwnt orticer of Standard & Poor's 500 lost percent late Tuesday. The Toll Brothers Inc. gained .Iohnson Illinh>ton Advisors. 

USDA to allow organic label on cosmetics 
three years ago for food and other interview. "We don't do eosmetics
Associated Press 

products grown without pesticides here. We're not lipstick. We're not 
WASHINGTON -The government or fertilizer and made with all-natu­mouthwash. We're not lawn earn is reversing its decision to yank the ral, chemical-free ingredients. It products. It takes a while to sit "USDA Organie" seal from lotions applies to meat and dairy products down and look at this and say, all and lip balms and will now allow from animals given organic feed and right, how do we make this work?" cosmeties to carry the round, green access to the outdoors and never In the end, officials determined label. given antibiotics or growth hor­that it doesn't matter what type of 
An organic soap company and a mones. product is labeled, as long as it fol­consumer group had sued the Department ol'ficials decided in lows the rules. In other words, Agriculture Department for ordering April they didn't have the authority Robinson said, "What dif'f'erence removal of the distinctive seal. to regulate cosmetics and ordered does it make if you brush your tneth 
Without the government seal, the companies to remove the USDA seal. with it or eat it?" word organie is "just a fluff market­Late Tuesday, one day before a The reversal also allows dietary ing claim," David Bronner, president deadline to respond to the lawsuit, supplements and pet food to earry of Dr. Bronner's Magic Soaps, said the department issued a memo the organic seal. The department is Wednesday. reversing its decision. in the proeess of ereating organie 
"It's kind of a truth in advertising Barbara Hobinson, head of tho standards for fish .• thing -consumers can trust that it department's National Organic The decision to remove the seal is indeed free of synthetics and does Program, said officials have-strug­from eosmeties had l'rustrated com­support organic farming and agri­gled over the issue, particularly panies that. likn Bronner's, spent culture," said Bronner, whose eom­because the program is still new. hundreds of thousands of dollars to pany and the Organic Consumers "We're USDA. We're looking at it lind all-organie ingn~dients and gnt Association had sued the depart­from an agricultural perspective -certified to use the seal. Only prod­ment in June. we do agrieultural products here. ucts cleared by governmont-author­
The department created the label We do food," Robinson said in an ized agents ean uso the S(~al. 
-

----------------------------------------, 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, August 25, 2005 

NOTREDAME ..... IJCTiliTIES 11611 
TU8Sd8V, IUUUSI301h ••• 1:00 PM -9:00 PM ••• JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE 
ACADEMIC, ATHlETIC, PERFORMING ARTS, SPECIAL INTEREST CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
A Life Uncommon Hisr;ank Business Studm1t Association Shirt Projert, The Tmop Notn• Dame 
Acadf'mic Competition Club History Club Soriety of Women Engineers Ultimate Frisllf.·e Club 
Acrouming Assoeiation Humor Artists Sociology Club Unchained Melodies Actuarial Sdfmc~ Club Hurling and Camogie Club Sorin Rifle Team -Army ROTC Undergraduate Women in BusiJW>.s 
Adworks ke Hork<?:V Team, Women's Spanish Club University Young Life Africa Faith & justice Network Indian Association Squash Club Vietnamese Student Assoriat!on African Students Aswclation lnstltutr of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Student Alumni Relations Croup Voices of Faith Gospel Choir Amateur Radio Club lnveslnlf'nt Club Stud<mt Governnwnt Volleyball Club, Men's 
Anwri.om Ctwrnical Sodety Irish Dance Club S1.udent lnterna<ional Business Council Wabruda. The 
Anu~rican lnstitull' of Aeronautics & Astronautics Irish Gardens Student Players Water Polo Club. Men·s 
American Institute of Chemical Engineers I ron Sharpens Iron Student Union Board Water Polo Club, Wotmm's American Society of Civil Enginet•Js Italian Club Sustained l)ialogu<J Women in Polilirs 
American Society of Mechanic.al Engineers! 

Japan Club Swing Club Women's Liturgical Choir 
Society of 1\mommive Engin<X•rs Japanese Martial Arts Clul) Symphony Orchestra World Taekwondo Fedf'ration Club Amtwsty lnt~rnational Jewish Club Tt~xas Club, The WSND--FM AnlmeClub joint Engi1wering Council ToastmaMeJs International WVFI Anthropology Club judic:ial Council Asian Ameriran As.sodation 
Juggler. The SOCIAl SERVICE ClUBS AND COMMUNITY AGENCIES 
Asian International Society Juggling Club Bagpip<' Band 

AIDS Aware~ws.s LEAD-NO
junior Parents Weekend Balll't f'olklorko Azul y Oro 

AIDS Ministries/AlDS Assist Life Treatmem Centers
Knights of the Immaculata Ballroom Dance Club 

Alliance To L!'ad And Serve Logan Center
Korean Studem Association Bands. Student Organization 

American Cancer Society Club Logan H~creation Club
La Alianza Baptist Coll<•giat<• Minbtry 

Arnold Air Society Ms. Wizard Day Program Team
1..•• C<•rrle Francais (Fn•1wh Club)Biology Club 

B<'sl Buddies Neighborhood Study Help Program
l..1•ague of Black Business Students Black Cultural Arts Council 

Big Brothers/Big Sisters Club Operation Smile Studmt Organization
Leprechaun LegionBowling Club 

Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Sl. Joe County R~igns of Life. Inc.
Linux Users GroupBoxing Club, Men's 

Boy Smms of America. LaSalle Council Saint. joseph's Chapin Slll'f.'t Health Centt•r Volunt.eets 
Manag<•ment Club Boxing Club. Wonwn's 

Boys and Girls Clubs ofSt. joseph County Saint Vincent de Paul Society 
Manageml'lll. lnfonnat.ion Systems Club Campus Fdlowship of the Holy Spirit 

Campus Alliante for Rape Elimination Sliver Wings (Benjamin D. Foulnls Chapt!'r) 
Marketing Club Caribbean Student Organization 

Campus Girl Seouts Slin• of Life
Martial Arts lnslitule Celebration Choir 

MEChA de ND (Movlmiento Estudiantil Center for the Homelt~ss S-O.S of Madison C<•nter Ches.s Club Chkano d!' Aztlan) 
Charles Marlin Youth Center South Bend juvenile Corrections Childr·<\ll of Mary 1\·lediaeval Society of Our Lady of th1• Lake 
Circle K Southern Care Hospice Mexican Anwrkan Engin!'ers & Srlentisls/
Children's Defense fund Community Alliann• to Serve 1-lispanic.s Sped~! Vriends Club

Society of Hispanic Proli1ssional Engineers Chinese Cultun• Society 

Disrnas Hous<.' Students for Environmental Ac:tion
Minority Pre ·Medkal SocietyChorale 

Dorners Mentoring Kids Students for Organ Donation
Mock Trial Association Climbing Club 

Foodshare Super Sibs
Mu Alpha Theta (Math Club) Club Coordination Council 

Habitat for Humanity Temnwork for Tomorrow
Muslim Student Assodation Club 'Sola 

National Association for tlw Advancem••nt Helpfill Und<~rgraduat<' Stud<•ms Trident Naval Sodety Collt>gf• Demo<Tab of Color"d P~ople 
Humane Soc:iety of St. Joseph County Tw~nty--f'irst Century Scholars G:ollegf.' Libertarians National Society of Blark EnginePrs 
Irish Fighting for St. Jud\' Kids Women !n Social Service and H~allh College Republicans Native American Student Association 
Knights of Columbus. No. 1477 Wonwn's Care Cent<•r Computer Club ND ti1r Animals 
La Casa d<! Amistad World Hunger Coalil'ion Coro PrlrnavPra de Nw.'stra SPnora ND<.•sign 
SPECIAl GUESTS
Cyding Club NDTV (Student Broadcasting ofNotre Dame) 
Debate Team Not·So·Royal Shakespeare Company 

Alliance for Catholic Education Legends of Notre Dame DNaehment 225 AFROTC Observer. Th" 
American Red Cross Office of Alcohol and Drug Education/PILLARS
Orestes Bro.,nson Council on Catholicism

Dome Designs and American Politics Athletic Promotion.~ RecSporrs Dome Yearbook Organizacion Latino Americana Campus Ministry Robinson Community \>earning Center!I'ake Ten Economics Club Orthodox Christian F0Uowshlp Club Center for Social Concerns Sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross Entrepreneur Club 
Standing Committee on 
Pakistan Student :\ssociation Club Coordination Councll Eqm~strian Club Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
Pasquerilla East Musical Company Educational Talent Search Farl~y Hall Players Studem Activities Office 
Peace Fc•llowship First Aid Services Team Feminist Voice TranspoPi Sigma Alpha Gender Relations Center Field Hockev Club Undergraduate AdrnL'isions Office 
Pollsh Club Fighting Irish Wrestling Club Pom Pon Squad
Figure Skating Club Pre -Dental Society Filipino American Student Organization Pre ·Professional Society/ AMSA First Class Steppers Pt't'·Vel Club 
FlipSid<• 

GET INVOlVED
Progms.sive Stud<.'nt Alliane<.' fly Fishing Club 
Psychology Club 

Forum on Biomedic-al Ethics All current Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross 
Right To LifP Freshman Cla>.s Counr il 

students are invited to join us for our annual
Rowing Club. MPn's Crew Gadic: SodNy 

Running Club, Men's Notre Dame Activities Night Hundreds of clubs and German Club 
Running Club, Women's organizations will be represented to meet and
Guitar Players Association Russian Club 

Gymnastks Club sign-up new members, distribute information and Sahaja Yoga Assodarion 
Halftinw share their plans for the year. Don't miss it. 
Sailing Club Handbell Choir Saint Edward's Hall Players Harmonia 

Srholastir Magazhw Online info: 
Hawaii Club --Na Pua Kill 'Ewalu 

Sdence -Business Club sao.nd.edu/studentgroups/programs/an/index.shtml
Health Ocmpmions Students of America Shades of Ebony 

ACTIVITIES NIGHT IS COORDINATED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
AND COSPONSORED BY RECSPORTS IN COLLABORATION WITH THE CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL 

Thursday, August 25, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Officers clain1 bias in drug tests 
Dismissed for positive cocaine results, police sue Boston department 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The seven police off'icers swore they didn't use cocaine, yet their hair tested positive for the drug. The offi­cers -all of them black -were promptly liwd or suspended. 
"I was in complete and utter shock," said Oflicer Shawn Noel llarris. "I know that I never used drugs a day in my life." 
The Boston ol'licers are now suing the police department, claiming the ma'ndatory drug tcst is unreliable and racially biased. They say hair testing is unfair because drug compounds show up more readily in dark hair than light hair. 
Their dvil rights lawsuit is one of many legal chal­lenges against hair drug tests, which 
are used by com­"/knew I had date, nobody has panies and police presented any­
never used drugs a 

departments thing that's
day in my life."

nationwide. caused us to Employers like the believe that we tnst bncausc it can Shawn Noel Harris should abandon detllCt drugs up to our current poli­
Boston police officer 

threc months aftnr use; urine tests go hack only a few days and can be easily altered. 
But studies have found dark­hairnd people are more likely to test positive for drugs because they have higher levels of melanin, which allows drug compounds to bind more easily to their hair. 
The Boston lawsuit says the ollicers may have had some kind of environmental exposure to cocaine, but that they didn't use the drug themselves. The former officers are seeking reinstate­ment to their jobs, back pay, and unspndfied damages. 
Six of the seven former offi­cers had a secm1d hair test con­ducted that came back negative within days of 1he positive result. Harris had another hair test, a urine test and a blood test. All were analyzed by a dif­ferent laboratory and all came back negative. 
"It was humiliating," he said. "People who I once considered friends or comrades in arms treated me differently. They looked at me differently." 
Police Commissioner Kathleen O'Toole said the department believes the hair testing policy is sound. 
"Our department's lawyers have certainly studied this and are prepared to go forward and defend the exist­ing policy," O'Toole said. "To 
cy." 
Boston police 
began testing hair in 1999, replacing urine tests. Their testing company, Psychemedics Corp., is the largest provider of hair testing for drug use, with dients indud­ing Fortune 500 companies and police departments in Chicago and Los Angeles. 
William Thistle, Psychemedic's senior vice president and gener­al counsel, said the company's tests are well-supported and approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 
Each hair sample is thorough­ly washed and soaked for an extensive period of time to remove any contaminants. If an initial test comes back positive, the sample is tested again, Thistle said. 

"The fact is that the test is 
extremely reliable," he said. 

But critics say it's far from perfect. Police are especially vulnerable because they can be exposed to drug residue on the job, they say. 
Fort Wayne, Ind., narcotics detective Timothy Bobay tested positive for cocaine after a hair sample was taken frol'h his fore­arm during a random screening last year. 
The police chief moved to fire him, but Bobay vehemently denied using cocaine. He argued the positive test came from exposure to cocaine dust on the job three weeks earlier. 
Bobay, who is white and has dark hair, had a hair sample taken from his head tested by a different laboratory and he also had a urine test. Both came back negative. 
The petition to fire him was withdrawn after Psychemedics said it was unable to rule out environmental exposure to cocaine as the reason for his positive test, said Bobay's lawyer, Patrick Arata. 
Under the substance abuse policy in Boston, officers who test positive for drug use are either fired or suspended for 45 days without pay and required to undergo rehab. Six of the seven police officers refused to sign rehabilitation agreements. The seventh officer signed the agreement so he could keep his job, but was later fired after testing positive in another hair test. 
Sheehan returns to Texas heactquarters 
Associated Press 

CHAWFOHD, Texas -A woman whose son was killed in Iraq returned to Texas on Wednesday to resume her anti-war protest near President Bush's ranch after a weeklong absence to care for her ailing mother. 
About a dozen protesters who have continued the peace vigil picked up Cindy Sheehan at the Waco airport Wednesday afternoon, six days after she flew to Los Angeles when her 74-year-old mother suffered a stroke. 
"This is where I belong, until Aug. 31, like I told the president," Sheehan said at the airport before driving about 20 miles to the Crawford site. 
When Sheehan arrived at the campsite, she saw a large banner depicting her son's face. She sobbed and said she felt ill. Supporters brought her water and cold towels, and she recovered about 20 min­utes later. 
Sheehan said her mother tried to say "I love you" and had started physical therapy for paralysis on her right side. 
"Even when I was in California, half of me was always here," she told The Associated Press late Wednesday. "I felt like since I started it, I should be here." 
Sheehan began her vigil Aug. 6 on the road leading to Bush's ranch, vowing to stay through his monthlong vaca­tion unless he met with her. Her 24-year-old son, Army Spc. Casey Sheehan, was killed last ye!tr in Iraq. 
Sheehan's protest has encouraged anti-war activists to join her and prompted peace vigils nationwide. She also continues to draw harsh criticism. 
Conservative activists and military families were en route to Crawford from California on a tour called "You don't speak for me, Cindy!" The caravan coordi­nated by Move Amnrica Forward plans to hold a pro­Bush raliy in town Saturday. 
Among thosn defending Sheehan are former U.S. ambassador Joseph Wilson, who believes that his wife's identity as an undereover CIA operative was leaked in retali­ation for his criticism of the Bush administration in a 2002 New York Times op-nd piece. 
"The Bush White Ilouse and its right-wing allies are responding to Cindy Sheehan and the military families' vigil in central Texas in the same way that they always respond to bad news -by unleashing personal attacks and smears against her," Wilson said in a statement released Wednesday. 
Later Wednesday, Bush was to return to Texas after a three-day trip to Idaho, where he met with some military families and gave speeches to rally support for the war. lie said Tuesday that he recog­nizes Sheehan's right to protest and understands her anguish, although she does not represent the views of many families he has met with. 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 




1801 l Cleveland Road • South Bend, Indiana 46637 
C.'orner orCleoetand and !ronwood Road 
Phone (!ii74} 272-8110 • Toll Free (888) 642-6110 www.cppj.com 

• 
IIuNiness Center 

• 
Free Tanning Bed 

• 
Racquer Br.fll 



• lt~door/Ourdoor Tennis & Basketball 
• 
_s._L,Jrnrning 


• 
Exercise Roorn 

• 
Whirlpool & Sauna 

• 
Short--Terl7l Leasing Options 


.Welc:o.ne To Your Castle••• ;, Close t.-Everything Far From Ordinary · ! ... -. 
~ 


• 1-Z llEDROOMS/2 BEDROOMS WrTI-t 1-0FT & PENS 
• MONTHLY EXECUTIVE SUITES 


ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 

....~~a----~~---------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. Jlam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
-----.-~);&-----­
We otTer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baldawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, August 25, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Confession of a sports nonfan 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeirher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A~sistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Qtmtiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
PoST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 14000) is: published Monday through Frid.1y except during cx.am and vacation periods. Asub$Cripd'm (O The Observer U. $100 tOr li'>nt academic year~ $55 for one .semcsr.er. 
11w Obst-rvcr 1.$ ptlb!ished :at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send .tddress correcrioru ro: Notre Dame, IN 46'556..0n9 T'hc Ob$erver PeriOOic:al postage paid a1 No(re Da.~nr P.O. ll<" 779 and .addiliona! mailing offices. 02-4 Sou£h Dining Hall 
Norrt Dame, IN 46556--0779 

The ObSC!r~r is a me-mbtr of l'h~ ksi)Citted Press. All reproduction rights. ate r~rvcd. • 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Nicole Zook Mike Gilloon Karen Langley Chris Khorey Janice Flynn Tom Dorwart 
Viewpoint Scene Joseph King Rama Gottrnnukkala Graphics Ollis McGrady Graham Ebetsch 
A new academic year brings new classes, new roommates and new chal­lenges (a category that sometimes includes the new roommates), but for many it is the new football season that really has them excited. With the arrival of a new head coach who has promised to put the fight back into the Fighting Irish, to say that the atmosphere of anticipation here is intense would be an understatement. 
So why don't I care? 
Well, it's not why you might think. It's true that, being English, I wasn't exposed to American football during my formative years. Like most of my compatriots I grew up in a family fanatically devoted to what we Brits (along with almost everyone else in the world) call football, which is to say, soccer. But for some reason it didn't take and I am currently one of the few British men with no interest in soccer whatsoev­er. The others are called Richard and Charles. We sometimes meet up, although it turns out that shared non­interests aren't a very firm basis for friendship. 
It's not that I don't enjoy playing sports. In high school I played rugby and cricket. Rugby is actually quite similar to American football, except that you ean't pass forward and you don't get to wear body armor. When I left for college, everyone -well it seemed like everyone -told me it would be a time of self-dis­covery. I joined the rowing club as the coxswain for the women's boat, and one of the things I found out about myself while at college is that shouting orders at eight athletic women in Lycra is one of 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

the very few things I am willing to get out of bed at 6 a.m. in order to do. My rowing career lasted for a very enjoyable year before I eventually quit, having come to the conclusion that this was catering to an aspect of my character that it was best not to encourage. 
The point is that I can enjoy sports as a participant, but I've never been able to get anything out of them as a spectator. In his Meditations, the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius recalls how he was taught not to take the side of the green or the blue party at the Circus games, nor to favor the heavily or lightly­armored gladiators in the arena. As a Stoic, he was supposed to avoid investing care in things outside of his own control; by not favoring one side over another he could greet any result with equanimity. 
In a sports stadium the equanimity that Marcus Aurelius cultivated through self-discipline comes naturally to me (although in my case the Stoic tempera­ment doesn't seem to have carried over into other areas of my life, as my lan­guage anytime I stub my toe will testify). The problem is that it takes the fun out of watching sports if you are not invested in the outcome of the game. That, of course, is the reason why we support a particular team and place bets. It's also the reason for the various traditions of the stadium -the cheering, the chanti­ng, the rattling of keys-all are ways of turning spectators into participants. For whatever reason I seem to be immune to the ell'ect. 
I sometimes hear complaints from pro­fessors about the importance attached to football at the University. I can certainly see where they are coming from. When I first arrived here I often got asked what it was like being at a religious university and it was some time before I figured out that the religion being referred to was Catholicism. 
Having said that, the professors are not exactly disinterested parties, and you (by "you" here I mean "I") cannot help wondering if their complaint is not moti­vated at least in part by the thought that the undergraduates here might be more awed by their professors' brains if only they were less fixated on the diameter of Brady Quinn's arms. 
There are plenty of reasons to cele­brate Notre Dame football even for those of us who fmd that we cannot appreciate it. It unquestionably helps to foster the spirit of community on campus, and also contributes to the especially close bond between the University and its alumni. 
Personally, I admire athletes, and not only because most of them could pick me up by the head with one hand. What I fmd most impressive is their dedication, their willingness to push themselves day after day after day to run faster and throw better than they-perhaps than anyone-has ever done before. 
The ancient Greeks dated their history from the first Olympic Games and stopped wars in order to compete. I think it's not coineidence that, of all the civilizations of the ancient world, they surpassed all others in their intellectual achievements as well. Physically and mentally, they strove to test the limits of human potential. On the sports field it is the physical prowess of the athlete that impresses us, but the habits that it took to acquire that prowess -the dedica­tion, the discipline, tho patience --are not just sporting virtues, they are schol­arly ones too. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. In addition to being congenitally incapable of taking an interest in soccer, he also does not drink tea. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
What is the best new construction on campus? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When I was young, I observed that 9 out of 10 things I did were failures. So I did ro times more work." 
George Bernard Shaw playwright 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, August 25, 2005 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Beyond Frosh-0 

U-WIRE 
Rank distraction 
Freshnwn, with your weekend of initiation into Notre Damn life in the past, it is now time to Dis-0 both mind and body (illusionary dichoto­my? I don't know, ask your Philosophy 101 professor). I under­stand tho strategy and purpose behind Frosh-0, and it's all well and good to try and make freshmen com­fortable by helping them meet new pnople on campus. But, freshmen, takn this adviee for what it's worth: do not let Frosh-0 limit the potential of your life at Notre Dame. Let's out­line the hazardous limits of Frosh-0. 
I. The dorm shirts. Dorm pride has its plaee, but the dorm should not structure the entirety of your life here. The vast majority of students at Notre Dame are friends with very few nwmbers of their own sex who do not live in their dorm. This trnnd takes root during Frosh-0 when the dorm upperelassnwn instill an extreme dorm loyalty. The extremity of this trond is oncapsulated in thn T-shirts that membors of tho same dorm must woar for tho entire weokend as a marker of their new identity. Think about this, and you'll n~alize that. it's a hit ridiculous. 
2. Social gatherings. Maybe you did not eateh it during tho weekend because you wore just so pumped to s1w so many mombers of the opposite sox, but, yes, it's true, the social gath­orings were exdusively coordinated between men's and women's dorms. or course this falls in line with the dorm pride/rivalry concept so preva­lent on campus, but it possesses such a downsidn. I mean, it sounds crazy, maybn, but dudes from one dorm may enjoy the company of dudes from another dorm. Oh, yeah. and guess why they sot you up with opposite-sex dorms? So that you (insert "guy") can get digits and start ofT your time at Notre Dame right by viewing the opposite sex (insert "women") as physical objects. Duh. 
3. 
Conversation starters. What's your major? What is your quest? What is your favorite color? Seriously, though. I know you have to start somewhere, but half of you will prob­ably get weeded out of freshmen chemistry, curse the banality of the method of instruction and learning in the science department, open your minds and become Classics majors. OK, that would happen in a perfect world. But, honestly, don't ask the friends you make this year what their majors are until sophomore year at the earliest. The major is nothing on which to base a relationship. One more thing. If ever faced with tho choice of reading your General Chemistry textbook or Dostoevsky, for the love of God show Dostoevsky some respect. 

4. 
Drinking alcohol. OK, I'm finally going to touch upon the big 'un. Your RA's are too brainwashed by now after their week of pro-Frosh-0 train­ing to tell you what's truly up. And the Frosh-0 staff was probably on weekend lockdown at the behest of their rectors to not talk about the drinking that goes on under the Dome. But just so you know, if the dorms get a little too tight or a little too sweaty there's an inViting, well­fabled, well-stocked little place called Turtle Creek across the road from the soccer stadium. There's a nice little road that runs past the tennis courts that happens to not be paved with gold but should be. So mosey on over. I'll be there waiting to greet you. 


Thomas Witherspoon 
senior 
off-campus August 24 

Sensational coverage keeps us from real news stories
Clarifying libertarianism 

Tho Viewpoint column on libertari­anism ("Neither left nor right," Aug. 
24) is oxcnllnnt. and I will be follow­ing it throughout the year. 
llowovor, tho non-aggression princi­ple unnecessarily excludes too many pooplo as libortarian. The boundaries or what makos ror a libertarian are sorter than tho column implies. There is no necessary requirement that we viow all initiation of aggression as morally wrong, or as something the state has no abstract right to engage in order to consider ourselves liber­tarians. We might agree that every­one should get a pumpkin carver, but worry that no institution can make it work. Or we might think that giving any institution the power to give us pumpkin carvers will also lead to that institution doing all kinds of other things that we definitely don't want, and don't want more than we want the distribution of pumpkin carvers. 
In short, we may agree with the justness of initiating aggression in some cases, but believe that there are too many practical things standing in the way of doing this aggressing just right. What makes for a libertarian is believing that the state should keep its hands to itself on both economic and civil issues. Whether or not us libertarians believe that we can never initiate aggression is interesting, but it is not a requirement. 
Peter Jaworski Professor, Bowling Green State University August 24 


In response to the U.S. News & World Report's college rankings monopoly, The Washington Monthly responded with their own definition of "best" college. Editors of the political monthly apply Michael President John F. Behr Kennedy's "Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what University of you can do for your Virginiacountry" maxim to col­Cavalier Daily lege life. 
U.S. News rankings focus on academic excellence and rf1pu­tation, whereas The Washington Monthly praises "productive" institutions which benefit soeif1ty. Although academ­ie quality is crucial to choosing the right college, more emphasis should be placed on the latter criterion. With financial resources, research capabilities and educational opportunities, colleges can improve society, not just struggle for elite reputations. 
The Washington Monthly used three criteria for undergraduate institutions: "engines of social mobility, they should produce the academic minds and scien­tific research that advance knowledge and drive economic growth, and they should inculcate and encouragn an ethic of service." 
The Washington Monthly rewards uni­versities that produce knowledgeable students who want to serve their coun­try, help the less fortunate, lind medical cures, etc. This is more desirable than the business student who strives to run international investment firms which may exploit Third World sweatshop workers and take advantage of the poor. 
So will students run to The Washington Monthly for college advice? Probably not. Students and parents want to invest their money at the best institu­tion, which is normally defined as bning the best academically and having tho strongest reputation. Thnrnforn, collngns have an institutional responsibility to downplay the U.S. News academic erito­ria and look to improve s01~inty. To main­tain acadnmie nxenllencn and to improve society l"or generations to como are admirable, equally important goals­yet the latter oftnn succumbs to the l"or­mor on priority lists. 
To restriet tho goals of undergraduate institutions to the education of its stu­dents is unproductive in larger social eontnxts. Community scrvicn, medical rnseareh, national service and poverty rnliel" are easily integrated into aeadl~lll­ic programs at universities like MIT. UClA and Berknley (the top thrne sehools on The Washington Monthly's list). The editors are not suggesting a "Peaee Corps" mJucation-but students should be mindful of the problnms sur­rounding thnir institution and how to best use these resourees t.o solvn societal i nadnq uacies. 
It is a massive wasto or morwy and time to ignore societal responsibilities. Colleges have the l"unding and resourcns in place to bring about changn to the society we livn in. U.S. News and other ranking lists allow society to forget these responsibilities and focus on aeademic rnputation. Yet in order to assum our wellbeing in tho future, we nned to rnward beneficial and socially produc­tive institutions. 
This column originally appeared in the Aug. 24 Cavalier Daily, the daily publi­cation ofthe University of Virginia. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Ever heard of Natalee Holloway? Of course you have. Greta Van Susteren from Fox News and Nancy Grace from CNN News have made it their apparent personal missions to find Natalee Holloway and to use their broadcasting Staff abilities to bring her Editorial killers or abductors to justice. We haven't Iowa State seen this kind of a Daily dogged chase after the perpetrators of a crime since 9/11. Oh, wait. 
Why does the Natalee Holloway case get so much attention while other, more important stories drift away'? Well, there are two groups to blame. 
The first group is the journalists who will cover whatever story will get them the most ratings and the second group is all of us. We need to do our part to turn away from the car crash and try to ignore it. 
This kind of sensational news report­ing leads to a collective tunnel vision in our society where the story that has the best ratings gets the best coverage, regardless of the importance or validity of the story. 
When was the last time you read or saw a great piece on anything going on that wasn't in America or Iraq? There is plenty of world news out there to eover that never reaches American homes because it simply isn't "sexy" enough for us, no matter how pressing the news might be. If it laeks the kind of human drama that Americans crave in their news, the cable news shows won't air it. 
Now, African debt relief may not be as compelling television as a drama like the llolloway ease, but we feel we can do better. If the advertising exeeutivns at companies like Coca-Cola can make a sugar-based bnverage "sexy" or desir­able, then CNN should be abln to do more to makn the world nnws morn eompelling and rolovant to American audiences. 
Bob Costas has recently enternd our good graces because, unlike Van Susteren and other cable IWWS hosts, he refused to host a show l"or CNN in place of Larry King that would have primarily covered the Natalee Holloway ease. Costas missed out on a show that included 10 guests-seven of them talked about the missing girl and the other three talked about the BTK killer. Costas said in a statement about the decision not to host, "I didn't think the subject matter of Thursday's show was the kind of broadcast I should bn doing." 
If by "kind of broadcast," he means the kind of broadcast that oll'ers us pun­ishingly redundant speculation on the Holloway case by overpaid "experts," then we couldn't agree more with him. 
Costas may not have explicitly statnd why he was uncomfortable with the show's subjeet matter, but we are all grateful that at least one broadeaster has the sense to know which news sto­ries really matter to the nation. 
This column originally appeared in the Iowa ,<,'tate Daily. the daily publica­tion of the Aug. 24 Iowa State University. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

------~~~~-~-----------------­
~---­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, August 25, 2005 
Reign of the King 
Shakespeare's popular masterpiece 'Henry V' enjoys 
By KATE PETELLE Scene Writer 
This weekend marks the final per­formances of "Henry V" by Summer Shakespeare at Notre Dame. The show, produced by Notre Dame's Paul Rathburn and directed by William Brown, a well-known Chicago theatre director, showcases the talents of both professional and student actors. It began its run Aug. 9 and will conclude with a matinee performance this Sunday. 
"Henry V" is Shakespeare's retelling 
of the historical events surrounding the Battle of Agincourt during the Hundred Years War between England and France. The play follows the actions of the young King Henry V of England as he strives to prove himself, per­suading his country of the merits of the 
war, leading his soldiers to battle, demonstrating his abilities as a mili­tary leader and as a King, and becom­ing a national hero. 
As the audience watches the por­trayal of a young prince growing into a king, the many facets of the play are revealed. Though the play is in many ways a celebration of the English nation and the achievements of one of the country's great heroes, its rele­vance to today's audience lies largely in its complex take on war, revealing both its glory and its savagery. 
"Henry V" is full of the grand rheto­ric of war and nationhood, but Shakespeare is also careful to show the sometimes-selfish motives behind the actions of war, the questionable morality behind the invasions of other countries and the sorrow that accom­panies the glory of battle. The play is not exclusively pro-or anti-war, but rather both at once, making it inter­esting and relevant to audiences in 2005. 
HenryV 
Dates: Thursday, Aug. 25, 2005, 7:30p.m. Friday, Aug. 26, 2005, 7:30p.m. Saturday, Aug. 27, 2005, 2:30 p.m. and 7:30p.m. Sunday, Aug. 28, 2005, 2:30 p.m. Venue: DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts Tickets: $20-30, depending on showtime, $12 for students 
Putting on a production of a history play is "much more complex" than the romances and comedies that Summer Shakespeare has produced in the past, Rathburn said (past shows include "Romeo and Juliet," "A Midsummer Night's Dream," "The Tempest," "Much Ado About Nothing" and "The Taming of the Shrew"). "Henry V" is alternately serious, humorous and sad, and there is even a wonderful love scene at the end. 
"Henry V" marks the sixth season of Summer Shakespeare at Notre Dame. But the roots of the project extend much further back. In 1983, Hathburn 
speare. 
Back at Notre Dame, Rathburn began a course called "Shakespeare in Performance," in which students put on four plays each semester. He began taking students to Chicago and Ontario to see Shakespearean produc­tions and did a Shakespeare film series on campus. 
In 2000, Rathburn founded Summer 

Shakespeare at Notre Dame, with the goal of producing high-quality, professional productions.  ...Henry V' is full of the grand rhetoric ofwar and  sional and ten student actors. Students who partici­pate in the program  
Summer Shakespeare has  nationhood."  have  their  summer  
become a staple at Notre  housing provided and  
Dame and in the larger South Bend community.  Paul Rathburn  are given a stipend for living expenses. More  
Summer Shakespeare  producer  importantly, the experi­ 

brings in professional actors for the major roles but incorporates Notre Dame students in supporting roles. Both students and professionals are handpicked. Over two hundred professional actors began teaching a Shakespeare course for Notre Dame's London program which emphasized the importance of Shakespeare in per­formance as well as in text. The class saw a production of every play they read, and actors were invited to speak to the class about the experience of performing Shake-
Photo courtesy of Patrick Ryan 

Matt Schwader, left, plays King Henry V. Schwader is returning for his second season with Summer Shakespeare at Notre Dame. 
expressed an interest in this year's show, and many students from a vari­ety of majors and backgrounds attended the open auditions. In the end, this year's show employed nine profes­
ence of working for four 
solid weeks, six days a week, with fully professional actors and designers in a high-quality pro­duction of Shakespeare is a wonderful experience for the students. 
As for the professional actors? 
"They love coming here," Rathburn said. "They love the atmosphere. We've never had an actor who didn't 
want to come back." 
This summer's show is remarkable for a num­ber of reasons, not the least of which is that this is the first full Shakespearean perform­ance in the new DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, and it takes full advantage of the stage and the possi­bilities that the new the­atre holds. 
The lighting, stage and costumes are "brilliant," 
and all original music was composed the air at 
"It's my legacy, my gift to Notre Dame. We say that we want to be known for more than football. How about Shakespeare?" 
Paul Rathburn producer 
"Henry V," the final IE 
specificall) a particul first Shake the ne,_, 

"Henry V" is the first full-length Shakespearean production to be performed in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Notre Dame students take part in the performance in key supporting roles "Henry V" f on stage, as well as assisting in directing and producing the play. 
his troopsi 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, August 25, 2005 
page 13 
ngthy run at DPAC 
Photo courtesy 

llam Shakespeare's saga of klnghood and war, Is approaching of Its one month duration as a Summer Shakespeare event. 
or this show. "Henry V" is rly fitting choice for the .arnan play performed in thoatre; in 1599, Shakespoare's newly· constructed Globe the­atre opened with the first performanco of "Henry 
V." 
The play opens with a direct reference to the new theatre and to the neod for imagination in creating scenes of battle on the stage: "Can this cockpit hold the vasty fiolds of France'! Or may Wfl cram within this wooden 0 the very casques that did affright ncourt'! ... Piece out our 
imperfections with your thoughts Think, when we talk of horses, that you see them." 
Moreover, this season is significant as it is Rathburn's last with Summer Shakespeare. Though he will remain on th'e advisory board for the program and may lecture at Notre Dame from time to time, Hathburn will introduce a Summer Shakespeare performance as its producer for the final time this Sunday. 
But the institution he founded six years ago will remain and continue to grow. 
"It's my legacy, my gift to Notre Dame. We say that we want to be known for more than football. How about Shakespeare?" Rathburn said. 
Contact Kate Petelle at kpetelle@nd.edu 

_,.,,nu'"' the conquests of a young, charismatic king as he rallies country Into political conflicts and famous battles. 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Hope shines 
Talented young pop star gets chance to shine with Jesse McCartney at local venue 

By JILLIAN PIETRZAK and 
MELISA ZIMMERMAN 
Scene Writers 
A small town girl and an up­
and-coming pop artist, Hope 
Partlow got a chance to shine as 
the opener for headlining act 
Jesse McCartney. 
Teaming up with the tmm pop 
star in a concert at the Morris 
Civic Auditorium, Tennessee 
native Partlow gave an ener­
getic performance. The 17 -year­
old's vocals, reminiscent of 
.Janis Joplin's tone, deliver pow­
erful messages through songs 
like "Who We Are," Partlow's 
first single. But don't let her 
rebel attitude fool you. Growing 
up in rural Tennessee, along 
with her gospel and country 
roots, has added a unique Oare 
to her music. 
The singer enjoys being on tour with McCartney, saying it's "crazy" to be paired with such a big name in pop music. Although she is still new at tour­ing, she loves how the fans are "cool and devoted" and enjoys 'signing autographs for them 
after her show. 
Her first album, entitled "Who 
We Are," is set to arrive in 
stores on Sept. 6. The album is 
produced by Grammy-winning 
producer Matt Serletic, said 
Partlow's representative 
Samantha Bowman. Serletic, 
Virgin Records 
that McCartney had won thn !warts of the loeals from South Bend and those from out of town through audience partici­pation and high-energy chore­ography. 
Even though the overall pnr­formances were successful, the technical aspeets of the show were a bit lacking. The set did not seem to be a good match with the show. Unlike the con­cert itself, the set was plain and boring. Sound beeame an issun as well. At times, there was fendbaek from the microphones and thn singers were hard to hear. The thousands of seream­ing girls did not help the situa­tion either. 
But by the end of the night, the concert was a success. McCartney and Partlow mer­chandise new ofl' of the shelves and autographs could not be signed fast enough for the mas­sive crowds. Both Partlow and McCartney had clean lyries, upbeat and energetic perform­ances, and good audience involvement. The eoneert was well-attended and full of family fun. 
Contact Jillian Pietrzak and Melisa Zimmerman at jpietrO 1 @saintmarys.edu and mzimmeO I @saintmarys.edu 

women outnumbered the male audience members at the con­cert. Fortunately, the female fans at the concert reaeted warmly, especially when she dedicated a song to them, which she called her "anthem to Jesse." Many fans cheered and applauded her as well as waited in a long line to receive her autograph. 
The showstopper of the night was McCartney. As soon as the house lights dimmed and the 
chairman and 

The Beautiful
CEO, has also produced big Soul Tour na100 artists such 
Artists: Jesse McCartney with 
as Matchbox 20 

special guest Hope Partlow
and Rob Thomas. 

Date: Tuesday, Aug. 23
Her future goals 

Venue: Morris Performing
include building 
Arts Center 
a fan base and getting the word out about her album. Partlow also wishes for a good response to her album and the opportuni­ty to create another one. 
Although the tour has gone well, Partlow was originally worried about how the female McCartney fans would respond to her performance. She was afraid that they would view her as competition. Partlow was not joking when she classil'ied the concert as a "seream fest." The thousands of girls began screaming, the 18-year­old singer filled his set with pop tunes and strong bal­lads, includ­ing a sere­

nade of his song "Take Your Sweet Time" to one lucky fan. His smash hits "Beautiful Soul" and "She's No You" from his multi-platinum album, also enti­tled "Beautiful Soul," were defi­nite highlights of the show. 
During the coneert, signs and what seemed to be a large flag were hoisted up in the crowd reading "I Love Jesse" and "Pick Me," all paying homage to the former soap star. It was evident 

Photo courtesy of vidiot.com 

Pop musician, actor and teen heartthrob Jesse McCartney is In the midst of a nationwide tour titled "The Beautiful Soul Tour," promoting his first s.olo album. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, August 25, 2005 
MLB 
Buerhle's strong outing lifts ChiSox over Twins 
Texas routs Seattle, Jays outlast Yankees, Brewers top Marlins 
Associated Press 
After squandering a sparkling 

performance by Freddy Garcia 
the night before, the Chicago 
White Sox weren't about to 
waste a fine outing by Mark 
Buehrle. 
Buehrle scattered six hits 

over eight innings, Carl Everett 
homered and drove in four runs 
and the White Sox beat 
Minnesota 6-4 on Wednesday to 
snap a four-game losing streak 
to the Twins. 
Benefiting from four double 

plays, Buehrle (14-6) gave up 
one run and struck out six with­
out allowing a walk to end a 
personal five-game losing 
streak against Minnesota _ 
which beat Garcia 1-0 on one 
hit on Tuesday. 
"That was vintage Mark _ 

strikes, groundballs, double 
plays. He didn't walk a batter," 
said former Twins catcher A.J. 
Pierzynski, who had three hits. 
"That's why he's one of the best 
there is. When he's on, he can 
beat anybody." 
Everett had three hits, the 

first five batters in the lineup 
went 11-for-22 and Chicago 
won for only the second time in 
10 games. 
Matthew LeCroy homered and drove in two runs for Minnesota, which watched starter Joe Mays (6-9) struggle again and threaten his place in the rotation. 
"We won, and that's all that matters," said Buehrle, who faced the minimum through five innings. "It was nice to get my confidence back up." 
Once Buehrle left, the Twins staged a serious rally _ getting a two-run homer from Nick Punta off Cliff Politte to pull within 6-3 in the ninth. Joe Mauer greeted Damaso Marte with a single, and Dustin Hermanson gave up an RBI double to LeCroy before getting the last two outs for his 31st save. 
"We've been reading stories about us choking all year," Hermanson said. "It's nothing new. I just hope the guys aren't reading the paper." 
Rangers 8, Mariners 1 
For the second straight game, the Texas Rangers got a quality outing from a young starter. This time, it was rookie Juan Dominguez's turn. 
Dominguez pitched two-hit ball over six innings for his sec­ond career victory, and Kevin Mench homered to lead the Rangers past the Seattle Mariners Wednesday night. 
Dominguez (1-3) allowed one 

•. 

AP 

Texas Rangers pitcher Juan Dominguez delivers during Wednesday's game against the Seattle Mariners. Dominguez allowed two hits over six innings In an 8-1 Rangers victory. 
run and five walks while strik­ing out three in his 10th major league start. 
"Everything was working fine," Dominguez said through an interpreter. "I was able to make good adjustments throughout the game." 
Texas starters have struggled over the last two months with a 
6.64 ERA in a 58-game span heading into Wednesday night. 
However, Dominguez's sharp effort came one day after Chris Young gave up one run and four hits in five innings of a 6-4 vic­tory over Seattle. 
"It's definitely a boost for us," said Rangers catcher Rod Barajas, who went 2-for-4 with two RBis. "I want to help these young guys, get them through as many innings as possible. It was good to see (Dominguez) throw strikes and get outs." 
Dominguez, 1-1 with a 3.93 ERA in three starts since being recalled from the minors on Aug. 13, threw his fastball for strikes and used a change-up to keep the Mariners guessing. 
"He kept us off-balance with the changeup," Seattle slugger Richie Sexson said. 
Blue Jays 9, Yankees 5 

Vernon Wells had one thing on his mind in the fifth inning. 
"I don't want to make an out," Wells said. "Everyone else is doing something." 
Wells had _nothing to worry about. He got to join in the fun, too. 
Wells hit a three-run homer off Mike Mussina in a nine-run fifth, and the Toronto Blue Jays beat the New York Yankees on Wednesday night to snap a five­game losing streak. 
Russ Adams added a two-run double in the inning, when the Blue Jays scored eight times off Mussina in their biggest inning since a their biggest inning since a nine-run sixth against the Angels on June 15, 1999, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
They had seven hits off Mussina and Felix Rodriguez, and 10 consecutive batters reached with one out. 
"We had some good at-bats," Blue Jays manager John Gibbons said. "We were way overdo anyway." 
Mussina (12-8) hurt himself by allowing two walks and hit­ting a batter. 
He allowed eight runs in an inning for the first time since Sept. 24, 2003, against the Chicago White Sox, according to Elias. 
Dave Bush (3-7) allowed five hits in six scoreless innings to win for the first time since Aug. 3. 
He beat the Yankees for the first time since pitching a career-best two-hitter against them in a 7-0 victory in Toronto on Oct. 1. 
"He always pitches very good when he's facing these guys, which is tough to do," Gibbons said. 
Hideki Matsui had three hits and drove in two runs for the Yankees, and pinch-hitter Bernie Williams added a three­run homer off Vinnie Chulk in the ninth. It was Williams' first career pinch-hit homer. 
The Yankees had their six­game home winning streak snapped and fell into a tie with Oakland for the AL wild-card lead. 
"Just when you think you have everything rolling in your direction, and then something that doesn't figure happens," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "That's what happened tonight." 
Brewers 6, Marlins 4 

Rookies Rickie Weeks, J.J. Hardy and Corey Hart are pro­viding a positive glimpse of the future for the Milwaukee Brewers. 
Weeks drove in the game-win­ning run in the sixth inning, Hardy had three hits and Hart manufactured a key run as the Brewers took advantage of four Florida errors in a victory over the Marlins on Wednesday night. 
"They've been playing great since they got here," Brewers manager Ned Yost said. "A huge part of what makes this so exciting is watching those kids get an opportunity and do well with it." 

Weeks broke a 4-4 tie with a single off Marlins starter A.J. Burnett that scored Damian Miller from second. Hardy came around to score when the ball scooted past right fielder Jeff Conine.Weeks said the rookies want to carry their weight. 
"It takes a lot off the veterans' backs like Carlos Lee and Geoff Jenkins," he said. "We're trying to add and trying to keep up with them." 
Hardy isn't analyzing his game after struggling early in the season. 
"I don't know what I'm doing right now," he said after tying his career-high with three sin­gles. ''I'm just out there trying to see the ball and put good swings on it,." 
Marlins manager Jack McKeon is impressed with the Brewers' youngsters. 
"I like their kids," he said. "They've got a lot of fire in them." 
Burnett (12-7). who gave up two earned runs over six innings, was burned by th.ree errors in the first inning, none costlier than his own.His errant throw on a high chopper by Lee led to two runs after he was staked to a 1-0 lead on an RBI single by Carlos Delgado in the top of the inning. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Bookmakers Pub  CHILD CARE WANTED:  Undergrad to assist senior biology  Space saved  
WANTED  now hiring cooks and servers.  3-year old twins in our hom e.  grad student with BioPerl applica­lions for upcoming paper to be pub- PERSONAL  Welcome Home, Alison!  
1-2 weekdays  lished in Science.  
SOCCER REFEREES needed  Big $$ during football  (4-8 hours each day).  Megan, Kelly and Frizz ­ 9 Days till football season!  
for south side elementary school  For credit hours.  
 
located near Erskine Golf Course  Must provide own transportation.  could you be any cooler?  Thank you Ken, James, and Chris,  
on Miami St. $35 per soccer game.  272-1766  Contact Jim Hogan  for waking up early  
Call574-291-4200  or 574-532-4933  Call kara at 574-621-1540  at jhogan1 @nd.edu.  We finally have cable!  -The Ticket Group  

Thursday, August 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLS 
FC Dallas ruins Adu' s return to D.C. United 
DC falls 2-1 in U.S. Open Cup quarters 
Associated Press 
(;IiHMANTOWN, Md-FC Dallas spoiled Freddy Adu's rnturn to tiH~ lineup by defeat­ing D.C. United 2-1 Wodnesday night in a U.S. Opnn Cup quarterfinal match. 
After playing to a 1-1 tie through regulation and over­time, Dallas won the match by defoating United 4-1 on penal­ty kicks. 
Tlw contest was a rnmatch of tlw 1997 U.S. Opnn Cup l"inal, a matc~h FC Dallas ­tlwn known as the Dallas Burn -won 3-2 on penalty kicks. 
FC Dallas advances to the semifinals and will host the Chicago Firn Sept. 14. 
Christian Gomez gave Unit(HI thn narly advantagn, taking a fond from Derna Kovalnnko and beating goal­knnpnr Scott Garlick .i ust ovnr a minute into tlw second half. Tlw goal was Gomnz's third in two U.S. Open Cup gamns, placing him fifth all-time in goals scored in the event. 
The advantage looked as if it would hold up, but United was forced to play a man down after Kovalenko was ejected in the 72nd minute after receiving his second yel­low card.With seconds remaining before the end of regulation, Dallas capitalized on United's misfortune, tying the match when Carlos Huiz beat defender Bobby Boswell, angling his way into the box before slipping a shot past United goalkeeper Troy Perkins from 25 yards out. 
Adu made his return to United's lineup in the 65h minute and made his pres­ence felt immediately with a run on goal late in the match. But Brian Carroll missed a point-blank shot that would have sealed the game, shoot­ing wide right o!T a feed from Adu. 
It was Adu's first action since injuring his knee injury in a 3-2 win over Chicago on Aug. 6. Unitnd was without tho services of loading scorer Jaime Moreno. 
No. 2 women's seed wins 1st round match 
Associated Press 
A rested Amelie Mauresmo breezed through her first match at the Pilot Pen tennis tourna­ment, making a strong start to her final tuneup before the U.S. Open by beating Elena Likhovtseva on Wednesday night. 
No. 2 seed Mauresmoj won 6­1, 6-3 to advance to the quarter­finals. She and No. 1 seed Lindsay Davenport would meet in the final if each wins her next two matches. 
Mauresmo is playing her sec­ond tournament since taking five weeks oll" -doing some surfing but not playing tennis for the first two weeks. In her first event aftor the layoff, she reached the semifinals in Toronto, losing last Friday. 
On Wednesday, she led the sec­ond set 4-0 before Likhovtseva held service. The Hussian missed a good chance to get back in the match in the sixth game, whieh reached deuce five times. But Mauresmo, ranked third in the world, won the final point when Likhovtseva hit a forehand wide from the baseline. 

TENNIS-PILOT PEN TOURNAMENT 
Mauresmo clears first wave 
Likhovtseva also rallied from two match points to send the last game to deuce. Then she hit two backhands wide and Mauresmo advanced. 
The top-seeded player in the men's draw couldn't avoid an upset as Juan Ignacio Chela overcame a big deficit in the tiebreaker and beat Nikolay Davydenko 6-1, 7-6 (5) in the second round. 
Chela was cruising through thn match, winning the lirst set 6-1 and leading the second 3-0, before Davydenko rallied. lie won the next four games, but Chela !mid service to tie tho set at 4-4. 
In the tiebreaker, Davydenko, ranked sixth in the world, surged to a 4-1 lead but lost the next five points. two when he hit backhands into the net. Chela, ranked 50th, then hit a fornhand into the net. But Davydenko ended a long rally -and the match -when his crosscourt forehand sailed wide. 
Davydenko's baseline style helps Chela, who is unbeatnn in four matches against him 
That gives Chela " lot of rhythm and that's the way !Chela] likes to play," the winmw from Argentina said through an interprnter. 
Davydenko increased the ten­sion on his raeknts for this tour­nament but, after falling far behind, switched back to one with less tnnsion that gave him morn control. Then, he started his eomeback but brokn a string late in tho match and went back to one with greater tension. 
"I don't know if it's me or tlw rackets" responsible for the loss. Davydenko said. 

Most top playnrs skippnd thn tournament, the first time mnn have participated in it, to gnt ready for the Opnn. 
No. 2 snml Fernando (;onzalnz advanend with a (>-2, 3-6, 6-4 win over .Justin Ginwlstob, but 1Oth-seedod Filippo Volandri, more suitnd to clay than thn hard court at the Connecticut Tennis Cnntnr, was dominated by unseeded .!amos Blake (>-1, 6-:~. 
Blake, who went to high school in nearby Fairfinld, wasn't hurt by the quick turnaround af"tnr his second-round match Tuesday, winning both matdws in straight snts. 
lin's confident going into the Opnn after his prnvious two tour­namnnts in whieh hn lost to Andy Hoddiek in tho f"ina.l in Washington and ltognr Fndernr in a dosn first-round match last wenk in Cincinnati. 
"Thnn you gnt to eonw, basi­cally, honw. It's a gn~at fneling bnforn thn Opnn," BlakP said. 
lin's sdwdulnd to play his lirst match tlwrn against Gn~g Husndski, who withdrew from the Pilot Pen. 
No. 3 snml David Fnrror elimi­natnd Tomas Zib 6-3, 6-3. Other sneded winners were No. 7 
Nicolas  Massu  and  No.  12  
Vincent Spadna. No.  11  snnd  
Jurgen Mnlzer lost.  


o/so opptt<Jrlng Horo!HI S 
Wtdnesday, fiugust 31, ZOOS 
COIIItli«< Pork • tlomt of tilt Dflroh Tigm 
Free tickE-t tor 9·8 Silver Hawks playoff game with Pverv bus trip purchase 
Bus departs 12:00 noon from coveleskl Stacllum Bus Trip Packages on Sale Now at 
The cove Box Office or 5741235·9988 charge by phone 




page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 25, 2005 
Brewster 
continued from page 24 
is a 2005 team co-captain. While the two are ready and willing to lead the Irish, Brewster realizes it's the entire group of five seniors that will have to carry the team. 
''I'm fortunate because of the class of five seniors we have," Brewster said. "I think it gives us an advantage. It is special to have a lot of seniors out on the court. We've spent four years·. together, and we're going to have a really great team." 
The seniors include setter Kelly Burrell, middle blocker/opposite Carolyn Cooper, outside hitter/middle blocker Lauren Kelbley, Brewster and libero/outside hit­ter Henican. In the off-season, Brewster and the seniors con­tinued to improve their game. 
"Lauren Kelbley, Carolyn Cooper ... we just always work on blocks together," Brewster said. 
The Irish will take on eight 2004 NCAA tournament quali­fiers and five pre-season Top 25 foes this fall. Though then~ is not much breathing room ·on the schedule, Brewster is excit­ed to get the chance to compete against some powerhouses. 
"It's a good opportunity to play a team in the top 25 or top 10, and fortunately, we get to play a couple of them this year," she said. 
Brewster has started for the Irish since the first match of her freshman season. She's a three­time all-Big East pick -honor­able mention her freshman year and first-team her past two sea­sons. 
As a sophomore, she finished first in Division I in individual blocking with an average of 
1.78 per game and was named honorable mention American Volleyball Coaches' Association [AVCA] All-American. She upped her game a few notches last season, earning third-team All-American, becoming the first Irish volleyball player ever to receive the prestigious honor. At last year's Big East tourna­ment, she was named Most Valuable Player. 
Overall, she ranks in the top 10 in nine Notre Dame statisti­cal categories including second in hitting percentage and block­ing. And she needs only 167 blocks this season to become the Notre Dame career leader. 
In addition to her play on the volleyball court, Brewster suc­ceeds in the classroom. In each of her first three seasons with the Irish, she was named a Big East Academic All Star. 
Despite all the awards and lofty expectations, the Big East's top phtyer shuns pressure. 
"I guess there's a lot of pres­sure and high expectations, but I can't really think about that," she said. "You just have to play. If you're on the court, you're not thinking, 'Oh, I have to block this ball ... ' You're just playing the best that you can." 
Brewster is so focused she doesn't really have time to think about pressure. Instead of get­ting nervous and turning to music or other forms of relax­ation before big matches, she studies. Instead of meditating or bouncing ofT locker room walls, she assesses the opposition. 

"Not anything unusual," said Brewster -referring to her pre-game rituals. ''I'll go over some .of our ... blocking schemes and different things that I'll go over about the other team." 
When asked about inspira­tional music she might use to fire herself up for a match, she laughed. 
"No. I listen to 'Here Come the Irish'," she said. "I like that song a lot." 
According to Brewster, the veteran Irish team is pushing for more than just a 14th straight NCAA tournament appearance. The goal is to make a deep run. 
"I would really like to see our team get to at least the Sweet 16, or the Elite 8, that would be the ultimate goal for me per­sonally and for our team," Brewster said. 
So when the Irish are warm­ing up before their first regular­season game this Saturday, when the ubiquitous "Here Come the Irish" song blares over the loudspeakers at the Joyce Center, Lauren Brewster -the All-American, the All Star student, the hard-working teammate -most likely won't be too nervous. 
She'll be focused. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 


ITA 
continued from page 24 
and worked really hard over the summer and to see that all culminate in a victory in the end really goes to show you that you put in the hard work and you can see results." 
For Langenkamp, the win was a milestone. 
"I played it the year before," he said. "It's really the pinnacle of the collegiate tournaments and a lot of guys play it, so I wanted to go there and get some good competition and play the top players from different schools." 
Although Irish coach Bobby Bayliss was not involved in coaching Langenkamp for the event, he spoke with him briefly before the final match, which featured Lankegemp defeating Miami's Eric Hechtman 6-3, 6-1 on 
report on Eric Hechtman from Miami, but he did it all on his own." 
In his coach's opinion, Langenkamp had a more well-rounded game than Hechtman. 
"Hechtman's a tough out," Bayliss said. "He's got a big dominant forehand and he doesn't make many mistakes. But I felt like Eric has more variety in his games and can a Notre Dame tennis player, mix things up better and Bayliss says the psychological could also slice him wide to benefits of the win have the backhand to keep him already been visible. from running around hitting "I think it's already affect-

forehands." 
Langenkamp called the finals match the "ulti­mate highlight." 
"Really, the finals was a great match," he said. "[Hechtman]'s played No. 2 for Miami, he's a well known guy who was great in the juniors and a great col­lege player. To beat him the 
way I did was just really the ultimate highlight of the whole tournament." 
En route to the title, Langenkamp also defeated top-seeded Paul Rose, Purdue's No. 1 player from last s·eason who has been 
Aug. 16. ranked at No.
"It's really the 
"I did talk to 56 in ITA 
him about an pinnacle of the standings. hour before the collegiate However, a finals," Bayliss more meaning­
tournaments and
said. "I called ful win may
a lot ofguys play 
him on his cell have been over phone and he it, so I wanted to go Ryan Preston, happened to who played in
there and get some
pick up right the bottom
good competition. " 
before they half of were going to Vanderbilt's play and gave· Eric Langenkamp lineup last him a scouting season.
tennis player 
"/ think the confidence winning an event like that, particularly a national event, is going to vault him into another level of capabilities. " 
Bobby Bayliss Irish coach 

ing his play," Bayliss said. "He's hitting a bigger ball, he's taking the ball earlier, he's attacking more. We worked out individually today for about an hour, he and I, and I see a difference in the balls he's hit­ting." 
As the fall season begins with the tourna­
"I actually 
lost to him earlier in the summer in the finals of the Ohio State col­lege events," Langenkamp said. "I came back and I beat him straight sets and that was really ... I was really happy with that and it really boosted my confidence, beat­ing a guy [I] just lost to." 
Although the tournament does not affect his record as ment circuit and the spring season approaches, Langenkamp will be able to build on his experiences from the summer's tournament play. 

"I think the confidence win­ning an event like that, par­ticularly a national event, is going to vault him into anoth­er level of capabilities of the way he'll feel about himself on the court," Bayliss said. "He's going to play with more confidence and I don't think he's going to be afraid of anything." 
Langenkamp said that the win affected him psychologi­cally, both as an individual and team player. 
"I'll still have the same atti­tude of working hard but I really made a statement at [the tournament] and I turned some heads I think," Langenkamp said. "[But] my attitude is, I'll just use this victory to bring momentum, not just to myself but to the team coming into the fall ... it's just a really positive thing to bring into the school year." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Playko 

continued from page 24 
German. Playko was able to work with international cor­porations such as BMW while overseas. 
"I took German through­out high school and during my freshman year at Saint Mary's," Playko said. "My family has German roots. It was the best of both worlds for me." 
Still, a part of Playko yearned for the competition of college volleyball. While she was able to work out and play at the university in Austria, the competition did not compare 
cult to keep track of the games live, but I e-mailed coach to tell her I was keep­ing up with the team and with my workouts." 
Playko is expected to bring a greater focus and a sense of stability to a team that was in limbo much of last season. A mid-season injury forced Schroeder-Biek to leave the sideline and left the Belles in a constant state of flux. 
The lack of a consistent starting line-up also hurt the team last year. Playko's presence this season is expected to provide the Belles with a solid founda­tion. 
"This year we are looking 
to eliminate all 
with that of the those outside
"[Kristen] is able to
MIAA. forces that dis-
motivate her 

"The level [of tracted the competition] in teammates and team last college is so year," Playko
keep them 

much higher," said. "I think
confident in each
Playko said. "I we're a much had to spend other." more positive the year work­group than last ing on basic year's team."
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
fundamentals." Can one play­
Belles coach 

Coach Julie er turn the 
Schroeder-Biek and the rest of the Saint Mary's squad sorely missed Playko while struggling to a 6-19 record last season. Schroeder-Biek felt that Playko's absence could not be understated. 
"Anytime you lose one of your own it's difficult," Schroeder-Biek said. "But Kristen is such a talent. Her positive attitude and com­munication skills on the court added a dynamic to that team [in 2003] that we missed last year." 
Playko kept up with the team via e-mails and online scoring, but she could do lit­tle to help the struggles. 
"I tried to keep up the best I could," Playko said. "The time difference made it diffi-
Belles' fortunes this season? Schroeder-Biek is eager to find out. 
"That's· too much pressure to put on one player," Schroeder-Biek said. "The team is definitely more focused as a group, though, and Kristen is a huge part of that. She is able to motivate her teammates and keep 
them  confident  in  each  
other."  
"The girls have  a  close  

friend and teammate returning, and they are really looking forward to playing with her again. They're ready to get on the court and to start compet­ing." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 

Thursday, August 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Forn1er Met star fleeing police 
Dwight Gooden has been evading capture since Monday night 
Associated Press 
TAMPA. Fla. -Police talked to rnlativos and aequaintanees of' Dwight c;oodnn for a third day Wmlnnsday in their effort to l'ind and arrnst tho f'ormer base­ball star, who l'lnd al'tor bning pulled ovnr on suspieion 

AP

of' drunkon 
Gooden

driving. 
Authorities say the 41-year-old Gooden was visibly intoxieated when he was pulled over for driving erratieally near downtown Tampa early Monday. 
lin twiee refused to get out of the ear for a field sobriety test, drove away suddenly and has­n't been seen since, police said. 
Ol'licers have visitnd his two known residences in Tampa, made contact with family members, former drug coun­selors and every attorney who has represented him, and talkod to his former employer, the New York Yankees, police spokeswoman Laura McElroy said. 
Everyone was "extremely cooperative," she said, but no one has seen him. 
Police don't even know if he's still in the Tampa area. 
"It's a sad situation for some­one who obviously has a seri­ous problem and is adding to his own problems by his actions right now," McElroy said. 
Gooden, who has a history of substance abuse and currently has a domestic violence charge pending in the court, is wanted on felony charges of DUI and fleeing police, and a misde­meanor charge of resisting arrest without violence. 
The 1984 Hookie of the Year and the 1985 NL Cy Young Award winner while with tho New York Mets, Gooden went 194-112 with a 3.51 EHA before retiring in 2001. He also pitched for the Yankees, Cleveland Indians, Houston Astros and Tampa Bay Devil Hays. 
Gooden was arrested by Tampa police in 2002 on a drunken driving charge, but later pleaded guilty to reckless driving and received a year probation. He was charged with hitting his live-in girl­friend in March. 
While playing with the Mets in 1994, Gooden was suspend­ed 60 days for a positive cocaine test. 
The drug came up again in a test during his suspension and he was sidelined for the 1995 season. 
He recently worked for the Yankees as a special adviser but quit in April. 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 

.,NCJI .. () CO ...... ITTI!I: ON 
GA'II' ANIO LltS.IAN 5TUDI!:NT N!!I!:D!S 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see 1-veh site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends~ pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo~ confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen La.fferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 

For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 
OTREDAM 


Saturdav, August 21 vs. Michigan at1:00pm Jovce Center 
www.notredamepromoiions..com 

MLB 
Schilling to start again for BoSox 
Pitcher admits feeling uncomfortable in the bullpen this season 
Associated Press Curt Schilling will leave his jitters in the bullpen when he makes his first start since April 23. The Boston right-hander, who has been filling in as the Hod Sox closer since mid-July, said Wednesday that replacing Keith Foulke left him feeling "naked" every time he took the mound. "A lot of my theories were not applieable as a closer," Schilling told Boston radio station WEE!, a day before his scheduled start against the Kansas City Hoyals. "In my mind, preparation-wise, I was kind of going out there naked. That was very uncom­fortable for me." Still, Schilling _ who declined to speak to reporters before Wednesday night's game against the Hoyals _ aceom­plished a good deal during the bullpen stint that started when he came ofT the disabled list in mid-July. He used the time to strengthen his surgically repaired right ankle, and per­formed well enough in relief to convert nine of his 11 save opportunities for the AL East 
lcmders. 
"lin holpnd us win," general manager Tlwo Epstnin said. "That's the bottom line. ·lin roally did something soilless to help us win." 
Also on Wndnesday, an arbi­trator heard left-hander David Wells' appeal of his six-gamn suspension for making contaet with two umpires on July 2. 
Wells denind those allegations once more after the hearing, although he said he would bn willing to pay a line for swear­ing_ although he denind saying anything out loud. 
"I gave them a tapn," he said. "The tape completely shows there was no spitting, no bump­ing. The only thing you ean do is read my lips, and that's it." 
Wells also said the tape showed umpire Angnl Hernandez grabbing him. 
"If they toueh us, thny should be suspended," Wells said. "That's like bumping us, and umpires do it all the time." 
No decision is expectnd bnfore Friday, and Epstein said it will likely be next week bnfore orw is handed down. 
That leaves Schilling as Boston's most immediate con­cern. The Hed Sox intnnd to get him seven starts by the end of the regular season, managnr Terry Francona said. 


Boston Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling pauses during a game 
with the Detroit Tigers earlier this week. Schilling was recently 
moved back Into the Red Sox starting rotation. 
IOllEYBAl 

Free Schedule Glasses To The First 250 Fans 


FREE ADMISSION! 

.-------------------------------------------­
OUND THE NATION 

"-· 
NSCAA/ Adidas Preseason Women's Soccer Poll 
team pren record prev. rank 
1 NOTRE DAME 24·1·1 1 2 North Carolina 20·1-2 5 3 UCLA 18·7·0 2 4 Virginia 17·3·2 7 
• 
5 Santa Clara 18·5·2 3 6 TexasA&M 18·6·0 15 7 Portland 20·4·0 6 8 Penn Stale 19·3·1 9 9 Connecticut 18-7-1 13 10 Ohio State 19·4·3 8 11 Tennessee 11·5·2 T11 12 Duke 15·8·0 T11 13 Illinois 16·6·2 14 14 Stanford 13-6·3 T19 15 West Virginia 15·6·0 RV 16 Boston College 15·7-1 17 17 Nebraska 14·9·0 22 18 Arizona 15·6·0 25 19 Florida 16·4·3 21 20 Washington 17·5·1 10 21 Princeton 19·3·0 4 21 Wake Forest 10·7-2 NR 23 Kansas 18·5·0 18 24 California 11·6·3 RV 25 Wisconsin 16·6·1 RV 
AVCA Preseason Women's Volleyball Poll 
team prev. record prev. rank 
1 Nebraska 30·2 5 2 Washington 28·3 3 3 Stanford 30·6 1 4 Hawaii 30·1 8 5 Penn State 29·3 7 6 Minnesota 33·5 2 7 Southern Calilornia 23·6 4 8 Florida 28·5 15 9 Tennessee 32·3 10 10 Wisconsin 22-10 14 11 Texas 25·5 11 12 Ohio Stale 30-4 6 13 UCLA 20·11 9 14 Louisville 30·3 16 15 UC Santa Barbara 24-4 21 16 TexaaA&M 19-9 20 17 Arizona 19-11 22 18 San Diego 24·5 12 19 Calilornia 17·12 18 20 Georgia Tech 27·7 17 21 Missouri 20·9 24 22 Colorado Stale 26-4 19 23 Saini Mary's (CA) 25·4 13 24 Long Beach St. 24-7 NR 25 Pepperdine 10·15 NR 
ITA Preseason Women's Tennis Poll 
averageteam 
1 Stanford 123.60 
2 Florida 113.43 
3 Texas 106.18 
4 Kentucky 105.73 
5 Northwestern 97.87 
6 Georgia Tech 96.38 
7 Southern Calilornia 96.21 
8 Vand erbill 94.91 
9 Georgia 94.16 
10 Clemson 92.61 

around the dial 
MLB 

Chicago at Minnesota 1:10 p.m., Comcast St. Louis at Pittsburgh 7 p.m., Fox Sports Midwest 
PGA GOLF Buick Championship First Round 4 p.m., USA Network 
CHAMPIONS TOUR GOLF JELD-WEN Tradition 6 p.m., The Golf Channel 
NFL PRESEASON Atlanta at Jacksonville 8 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Bob Huggins agreed Wednesday to step down as Cincinnati's basketball coach, ousted by a school president determined to change the program's image. 
One day after Huggins was given a choice of resigning or being fired, he agreed to take a $3 million buyout of his contract. The school's offer includes a chance to stay for three more months, giving advice on basketball recruits and related mat· ters. 
"We are working on the details of the agreement, which may or may not be finalized in the next 24 

hours," said Richard Katz, the coach's attorney. , Huggins left Katz's office 
without comment, dressed in his black Cincinnati jacket, when no final deal 
was reached on Wednesday. 
The university sent Katz a letter earlier in the day outlining the $3 million buyout. The letter, obtained through a Freedom of Information request, offered Huggins $110,000 per month for the next three months to stay on and ease the coaching transition. 
"His duties will include providing information about the current team, identifying and comment· ing upon potential recruits, and documenting his insti­tutional memory of the basketball program during his 16-year coaching tenure," the letter said. 
An interim coach has not been chosen. The school doesn't anticipate hiring a permanent replacement until after the 2005-06 season; its first in the Big East. The school will have a difficult time attracting recruits in the meantime. 
The volcanic coach who won more games than any­one else in Cincinnati his-
IN BRIEF 
Armstrong strongly opposes 
comments by Tour director 
WASHINGTON -Lance Armstrong went on the offensive Wednesday, saying it was "preposterous" for the Tour de F_rance director to say that the legendary cyclist "fooled" race officials and the sporting world by cheating his way to seven straight titles. 
Comments by Tour director Jean­Marie Leblanc appeared in the French sports daily L'Equipe on Wednesday, a day after the newspa­per reported that six urine samples provided by Armstrong during the 1999 Tour tested positive for the red blood cell-booster EPO. 
"I actually spoke to him for about 30 minutes and he didn't say any of that stuff to me personally," Armstrong said, referring to Leblanc. 
"But to say that I've fooled the fans is preposterous. I've been doing this a long time. We have not just one year of only 'B' samples; we have seven years of 'A' and 'B' samples. 

They've all been negative," he said during a conference call from Washington, D.C. Eagles lose Buckhalter to knee surgery 
PHILADELPHIA The Philadelphia Eagles keep losing play­ers even before the season begins. 
Backup running back Correll Buckhalter, who has a history of injuries, will miss the season after undergoing knee surgery for the third time in four years. Buckhalter, who missed nearly all of training camp, underwent surgery Tuesday to repair a torn patella tendon in his right knee. · 
Last year, he had season-ending surgery on the same tendon after he injured it in a preseason game. 
"He's a great kid," coach Andy Reid said Wednesday. "He worked so hard in the offseason. He came back in phenomenal shape. We were looking forward to getting him back out there. lie did some good things. For that to happen, your heart goes out tory was forced out by an academically minded school president who does­n't like Huggins' history or philosophy. President Nancy Zimpher sent Huggins an ultimatum on Tuesday, giving him 24 hours to either take the buyout, stay in a capacity other than basketball coach or get fired from the job. 
"It could happen to any­one when you get hired by a different president," Louisville coach Rick Pitino said Wednesday. "There's a difference in philosophies. It happens. It's a change in CEOs. They have their own people." 
to the gu)'." Lightnin~ sign 'heart and soul' righfwing St. Louis 
TAMPA -The Tampa Bay Lightning took another step to keep the core of their Stanley Cup champi­onship team together Wednesday, signing Martin St. Louis to a six-year contract worth more than $31 million. 
The 30-year-old right wing had 38 goals and 56 assists for 94 points dur­ing the 2003-04 season to win the llart Trophy as MVP, Art Ross Trophy (scoring leader) and Lester B. Pearson Award (MVP as chosen by the players) while leading the Lightning to their first league title. 
"I've said it many times in the past and I continue to maintain that Martin St. Louis is the heart and soul of our hockey team,' general manager Jay Feaster said. 
"Dating all the way back to the summer of 2004, there was never a moment when we were not firmly committed as an organization to get­ting Marty signed long term." 

Thursday, August 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
GOLF -U.S. AMATEUR 
NCAA Champ moves on 
James Lepp defeats Kyle Reifers to move to second round play 
Associated Press 
AHDMOHE, l'a. -Canadian .lamos Lnpp birdiod the f'irst playofT holo Wndnesday to boat 64th-snndnd Kyln Heifers and advancn to the sneond round of tho U.S. Amateur at Merion Golf Club. 
Lepp, the 2005 NCAA indi­vidual champion out of Washington who was the strokn play medalist, rallied from two holes down and forcod tho playoff by winning the 1Hth. On tho first playoff hole, hn hit his approach from 94 yards to within 2 feot and made tho birdin putt for the win. 
"Wiwn I hit tho wedgo in, I thought, 'Oh, it looks good,"' Lepp said. "It felt good. It just spun down the hill perfectly. I didn't fool real groat with the putt(~r today, so it was nico to have that dose right-edge putt. 
"I fnlt likn I had the momen­tum and I was going to win this match." 
Lnpp will facn 32nd-sended llano Burkhart, a junior from South Carolina-Aikon. in Thursday's second round. Burkhart advancnd with a 1­up win ovnr .John llolmes. 
George Zahringer, 52, also won his first-round match on a playoff holn. lie rollod in a 12­foot putt to beat Chandler Cocco, a 20-ynar-old junior from St. Mary's Collngn in California. 
"This was cloarly a match that could havn gono nithnr way," said Zahringnr, tho 2002 U.S. Mid-Amateur champion who trailed by three holes a!"ter the 11th. "I probably should have lost it. I made some mistakes, some rookie mistakes, but this is a such a great match play course, par­ticularly with those last six holes, that anything can hap­pen. 
"I am definitely representing the old guys here. I do have a day job, but when we get on the first tee, I don't really feel old. Sometimes I feel that I've got to adjust a little to how long these younger guys play, and I'll do a better job of that tomorrow." 
Zahringer will face 16-year­old Oliver Fisher, who was a member of the Britain and Ireland's Walker Cup team. Fisher beat U.S. Walker Cup team member Lee Williams 5 and 4. 
Gary Wolstenholme, 45, defeated 21-year-old Missouri junior Shawn Jasper. Wolstenholme had a hole-in­one at the 120-yard 13th and went 1-up with a birdie on the 17th before halving the final hole. 

Have you thought about teaching Religion and becoming a Catechist? 


a Religion Teacher. 
Important Information Meeting: Wednesday, August 31, 2005 5:00-6:00p.m. Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Old SWC stalvvarts search for new identity 
Ten years later, SMU, TCU, Houston, Rice pine for past glory 
Associated Press 
For former SMU star Craig James, one night best typifies the passion and tradition of thn Southwest Conference. 
The unbeaten Mustangs took national championship hopes into their last conference game of 1982 against an 8-1 Arkansas team coached by Lou lloltz. The game drew 65,000 fans to Texas Stadium -more than the Dallas Cowboys did for any game that incomo from the BCS, the system designed to linn up the best teams from thn biggest (~onfnr­ences for the highest-paying bowls. Last year, for example, the Big 12 was guarantned morn than $14 million to split bntween its members. C-USA and the Mountain West wore each guar­anteed about $1 million. 
The breakup hasn't hurt as much on the field. Each of thn eastofl"s except SMU has bnrwfit­ed from no longer being fodder for Tnxas and Tnxas A&amp;M. 
TCU, which just left C-LJSA, had just one eo-championship and livn winning snasons in the 
SWC's final :~o 
years. 

season -and Now thn
"Our goal is to be right 
many were Frogs havn
back as a national
wearing played in a Hazorbaeks col­program. bowl six of tlw ors. past sevon 
"It was very years.
Dave Maggard 
intense," James Some evnn
Houston athletic director
said of the 1 7-17 tie, the only blemish on SMU's 11-0-1 season. "My broth­er was walking out of the tunnel and his shirt was all ripped up. I asked him what happened and he said, 'I got in a fight with some Arkansas fans."' 
No conference game since has meant so much for SMU. The same is true for TCU, Houston and Hice, which were also left im the fringes of big-time football after the SWC's 81 st and final season a decade ago. The con­ference dissolved when Texas, Texas A&amp;M, Texas Teeh and Baylor jumped to the Big 12. 
Since then. the SWC's Forgotten Four have fallen from a stable, elite league into the vast midsection of Division 1-A foot­ball, missing out on millions ·of dollars in bowl and television revenue while playing before smaller crowds in ever-changing conferences against faraway foes. 
erndit the SWC's 
fall for thn 
sehool's rise. Former athletie director I~rie llyman recalled a prominnnt TCU ollidal praising the brnakup as the only way for the privatn Fort Worth school to build its program. 
"I looked at him like he had three eyes," said llyman, now South Carolina's AD. "UltimatPly though, if you look at thn pro­gram now, hn was right on tar­get." 
Thn Frogs jumpnd to a I 0-0 start in 2003, !"OS(~ to No. 6 in the BCS rankings and sparknd a national debatn about whethnr a smallnr-eonferenee team should play in a BCS bowl. They nndnd up losing their 11th ganw, and new MWC rival Utah wnnt on to beeomn thn lirst BCS buster in 2004. 
That gives nnw AD Danny Morrison rnason to belinvn TCU 
picked the right 
lnague. Tho BCS 
plans to re-eval­

But  all  four  "You're talking millons  uate automatie  
have new hope this season.  of dollars annually."  berths starting in 200H, and  
TCU,  by  far  Morrison says  
the  most  suc­ Dave Maggard  tho  Mountain  
cessful, is now in  Houston athletic director  Wnst eould b(~ a  

the Mountain W e s t Conference. The Horned Frogs think their third confnrence in five years movns them closer to the high end of I­A and the lucrativn Bowl Championship Series. 
I louston, Rieo and SMU havn been reunitnd in the latnst incar­nation of Confnreneo USA, hop­ing a strong national presence and renewed regional rivalrins can boost attnndanee, TV covnr­ago and rneruiting. 
Still, none of the schools has fully reeovered from the SWC breakup, which came amid a 1990s realignment frenzy that preceded formation of the BCS. 
The biggest hit has been finan­cial. It's tough to say exaetly how much money the schools have lost since being snubbed by the Big 12 and other major confer­ences. School o!licials declined to release football income figures, but losses are easily in the mil­lions. 
"You're talking about money at the gate, television money, bowl money," Houston athletic direc­tor Dave Maggard said. "You're talking millions of dollars annu­ally." 
The most obvious difl"erence is 
logical ehoie(~. 
"All I'm say­
ing is thn eon­fnnmen is wnll-positionod to have an opportunity to mow~ into that snlect company at somn point," he said. 
Tlw tinwtabln is shortnr for llouston. 
"Our goal is to lw right back as a national program -today," Maggard said. 
It might sound too optimistic, but consider llouston's history. Thn Cougars wnm t.hn last to join t.hn SWC, arriving in 197(, and prompt.ly winning a sharn of thn title and thn Cotton Bowl. Aft.Pr the SWC folded, Ilouston tind for Jirst in C-LJSA's Jirst season and went to thn I.ibnrty Bowl. 
It's bnnn up and down sine(~ for the Cougars, who were last in the national spotlight when Andre Ware and David Klingler were racking up ridieulous pass­ing statisties in the late 19HOs and early '90s. 
Houston is in the same <>USA division with Hiee, SMU, Texas­
E) Paso, Tulane and Tulsa. 
Rice eoach Ken Ilatlield, who won two SWC titles as Arkansas' coach, said regional rivalries will draw fans and recruits. 

~------­
' 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, August 25, 2005 
witJ.v NO's Own~· Da Natural 
Coming straight from Lollapalooza 
20051 Cake has recorded smash hits such as The Distance/ Short Skirt/Long Jacket, and Never There. Of their six COs, · 
three have gone platinum; Fashion 
Nugget, Prolonging the Magic, 
and Comfort Eagle. 
friday august 26th I 8pm Joyce Center Fieldhouse 



Thursday, August 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

MLB 
Dodger infighting escalates 
Bradletj says Kent does not knaw "haw to deal with African American people" 
Associated Press 
Millon Bradlny and Jnl'l' Kent an~ still at odds. Los Angeles l>odgt~rs manager .Jim Tracy and gnrwral manager Paul l>el'odesta wish they wertm 't­espncially now that Bradley has injeeted race into the equa­tion. 
Bradley accused Kent ol' a lack of leadership and an inability to deal with black playnrs in a 15-minute session with reporters at his locker bofore Tuesday night's R-3 vie­tory over tho Colorado Hoekies. 
Tho rnmarks came only a eouple or minutes after he said that the feud between the two that became public last week­end in Florida was a "dead issue." 
"The problem is, he doesn't know how to deal with African­American people," Bradley said. "I think that's what's causing everything. It's a pat­tern of things that have been said -things said ofT the culT that I don't intmpret as funny. It may be funny to him, but it's not funny to Milton Bradley. But I don't take ofl'ense to that bneause we all joke about race in here. Haee is an issue with evnrything we do in here. 
"Me being an African­Amerkan is the most impor­tant thing to me -more important than baseball," said the 27 -year-old center lielder, whose voiee never went beyond his normal speaking level. "White people never want to see race -with any­thing. But there's race involved in baseball. That's why there's less than 9 percent African­American representation in the game. I'm one of the few African-Americans that starts here." 

Bradley did not like what Kent said to him after he failed to score from first base on a double in Saturday's victory over the Florida Marlins. Bradley initiated a 25-minute closed-door meeting with Tracy after that game. 
"I was told in spring training I was the team leader -by Paul DePodesta. By Jim Tracy. By (team owner) Frank McCourt," Bradley said. "Growing up in L.A., I know how to deal with all types of people, and I do it on an every­day basis. But some people don't deal with all different types of people every day, and therefore don't know how to handle situations when they arise." 
DePodesta issued a state­ment after Tuesday's game, saying: "Everyone at the Los Angeles Dodgers is committed to winning. It has been a frus­trating season for all of us and our fans, as we have dealt with plenty of adversity. 
"We have a talented team of passionate players who take their performance -as well as the team's performance -per­sonally. Under the circum­stances, it is not unusual for players' emotions to run high. llowever, if and when any issue arises that runs contrary to the goals and values of the organi­zation, there should be no question that we address it." 



The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges the following businesses that support
Notre Dame 
ANNUAl FliND 
our student caller INCENTIVES PROGRAM: 

Atria Salon Between the Buns Carriage House Dining Room Chao Cajun-University Park Mall Cosimo & Susie's "A Bit of Italy" Doc Pierce's Restaurant Family Video Fun Tan, Inc. Francesco's Italian Restaurant Hacienda Mexican Restaurants Hi-Speed Auto Wash Honkers Restaurant K's Grill &Pub Maury's Pat's Pub Mishawaka Wai-Mart Supercenter Potawatomi Zoological Society, Inc. Quality Dining/Chili's/Papa Vino's Ritter's Frozen Custard Rocco's Restaurant South Bend Symphony Orchestra South Bend Silver Hawks Studebaker National Museum Ten Thousand Villages Mishawaka Tippecanoe Place Restaurant Wendy's of South Bend Wings, Etc. Restaurant &Pub 
Marie P. DeBartolo Center for Performing Arts 
• 

LLWS 
West dovvns Southeast to advance to U.S. final 
Associated Press 
SOUTH WILLIAMSPOHT, Pa. -Talk about a net gain for Hancho Buena Vista. 
A disputed call went its way, and now the team from California is on the way to the United States title game at the Little League World Series. 
An apparent three-run home run by Maitland, Fla., was instead ruled a double, and that was the break Rancho Buena Vista needed in a 6-2 semifinal victory Wednesday night. 
"We play all year setting goals," Rancho Buena Vista manager Marty Miller said. "Now our goal is to get to the [World Series] championship game." 
In an international semifinal game Wednesday, Japan was an 11­is very easy to make a eall after seeing a replay at various angles. Even Major League Baseball umpires make mis­takes." 
Cash refused to let Ouellet oil' the hook. 
"For him not to come out and look at it, he has no basn ealls to make," Cash said. 
Miller was too busy celebrat­ing -and talking about poten­tial U.S. championship game opponents -to worry about the call. 
"I really don't want to gel into the umpire situation," he said. "The tape will speak for itself." 
The disputed call eame back to hurt Southeast champ Maitland (2-2) even more in the fourth. 
Hancho Buena Vista's Heed Heznicek walked and went to 
second on a sacri­
fice bunt. Johnny 

0  winner  over  "We needed that  Dee's single was  
Surrey, British Columbia. Guam will play  momentum to make them come  bobbled by the center fielder, allowing Heznieek  
defending series  after us."  to seore for a  3-2  
champion  lead.  
Willemstad, Curacao, and West  Sid Cash  Dee was thrown out trying to  
Oahu  of  Ewa  Maitland, Aa. Manager  stretch the hit into  

Beac.h, Hawaii, will face Lafayette, La., in the other semis on Thursday. 
The world championship is Sunday. 
The controversial play came in the bottom of the third with Maitland down 2-0. 
With two runners on and two out, Mike Tomlinson laced a line drive off winning pitcher Kalen Pimentel that hit about a foot up the netting attached to the left­field foul pole, hit the top of the wall and bounced back into play. 
Tomlinson thought he home­red, but the umps immediately ruled the hit a two-run double. Maitland manager Sid Cash dashed out to argue, but -with­out the benefit of replay -the call was not reversed. 
"It just hurt the momentum for us," Cash said. "I think if we're up 3-2, we'd have the lead and then see how they'd respond. It has an affect on everything." 
Little League spokesman Lance Van Auken issued a state­ment of support for left field umpire Steve Ouellet, saying, "It a double. 
Maitland threat­ened again in the fourth, putting runners on first and second with one out, but left them stranded. 
The lost home run was too much for Maitland to overcome. 
"We needed 1hat momentum to make them come after us," Cash said. 
Hancho Buena Vista (4-0) scored three runs in the sixth to seal its 24th straight win. 
Pimento!, who has two grand slams and tied a Little League World Series record for a six­inning game with 18 strikeouts, struck out nine and walked two in a complete game. 
Dante Biehette Jr. took the loss for Maitland, giving up six runs -four earned -and striking out four in 5 1-:~ innings. 
Maitland coaches Dante Biehettn and Mike Stanley never won a World Series champi­onship in the major leagues and they're going to have to wait to win one in Little League. 
Hancho Buena Vista went ahead 1-0 in the seeond when Hoyee Copeland doublnd. 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 25, 2005 
fOOTBALL 
Irish coaches looking to spread talent around 
that can come in and do an

Offensive installation 
outstanding job. So we're mostly complete with going to play as many guys that are capable of playing." 
Pitt ga1ne approaching Besides trying to get all their talent on the field, the staff also has to decide how to 
By MIKE GILLOON teach players what to do in sit­Sports Ediwr uations that might not come up for several games. "We still have some things
Charlie WBis made a name 
we have to fit in," Weis said.

for himself in New England. As 
"So the first time stuff hap­

the offensive coordinator of 
pens, it isn't 'well what do we

the Patriots, he won three 
do now, coach?"'

Super Bowls in four years by 
Haywood believes the team

running an unpredictable 
is adapting quickly to what the

offense based on attacking 
coaches want to do in particu­

weak spots in opponents' 
lar moments of the game.

defense. 
"I think the guys are starting
Now, as he enters his first 
to understand what we're ask­

year as coach at Notre Dame, 
ing for in certain situations,"

he is trying to win the same 
Haywood said. "They're

reputation -and games _:__ by 
extremely coachable young

using his players' talents in 
men and extremely intelligent,

the most efficient way possi­
so they learn on the run."

ble. And so far, the installation of his offense is moving steadi­
Contact Mike Gilloon at

ly. 
mgilloon@nd.edu
"I think that with a week and 


a half to go, ... we have the foundation set that we can go ahead and game plan each week," Weis said. 
With ten starters returning on offense, Weis has plenty of talent to go around. One chal­lenge that comes with this lux­ury is to find the right position for each player. Rashon Powers-Neal, for example, has moved from fullback to run­ning back in hopes of finding a better fit in the offense. The running back spot is already crowded with Darius Walker, Travis Thomas and Justin Hoskins in the mix. The addi­tion of Powers-Neal leaves Weis with what could be too much talent. 
"I think that we have enough offense [already installed] ... in that we understand who our personnel is," Weis said. "There is still a little jockeying between a second or third guy ... how are we going to rotate people?" 
Notre Dame offensive coordi­nator and running backs coach Michael Haywood believes having a large number of quality players, especially run­ning backs, is always an asset. 
"I think Darius [Walker] has the ability to be one of the finest running backs in the country," Haywood said. "But at the same time I think that we have other quality backs 

SEMINARS THAT CouLD CHANGE yOUR LIFE 
THE CENTER FoR SociAL CoNCERNS 

FALL SEMESTER SEMINARS 
Experiential Learning Seminars with an Immersion October 16-21, 2005 
Appalachia Seminar Cultural Diversity Seminar Gullah Seminar Gospel of life Seminar Washington Seminar Global Health Initiative Seminar 
Applic~tion Deadline: TODAY Apply online: http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu 
, ..., ..., . , f*1UNIVERSITY OF
(,enter l·or Soctal C,onccrns ~NOTRE DAME 

Thursday, August 25, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 40 Moving, after 69 "Don't I know 1 Bats uon" you from 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Meshach Taylor, 58; Louise Lasser. somewhere?," 66; Joel Grey, 73; Johnny Messner, 35 
5 Word to a pest 42 "Alphabetic" e.g.girl's name
10 Wing, in a way Happy Birthday: Stop putting pressure on yourself and start to do the possible. 43 Volatile solvent This can be a highly energetic year, hut getting started will he the prohlem.
70 1993 Aerosmith 

14 Maintain 
hit with the lyric Surround yourself with people who can support you emotionally. A change is
45 A billionaire 

15 Personal guide "Love is sweet headed your way by year-end so prepare to accept something new. Your numbers 
might live in it 

misery" are I. 13. 22, 27, 33, 38 ·
16 Field measure 
47 Thick-ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get down to business early today so you have 
-
71 Battle of

17 "Shoot!" plenty of time later in the day for socializing and romance. You may have to take
49 Delicate subject

18 Brahman, e.g. care of the needs of an older relative. Organization will he the key to fitting 50 Successor org. everything in. *** 
19 Word with slip DOWN
to the U.S.S.R. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Digging your heels in and refusing to budge may or slide work against you in the end. Don't oppose the very people who arc trying to do 
1 Put on51 Poke

20 Graybeard something to help you. Anger will not help you lind a solution to a disagreement. 
2 Like many a ***53 Work like22 Certain 
clothes basket GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you lind yourself a little confused about someone
Rembrandt, athammers 

you recently met, stick to your longtime friends. Problems with authority ligures 
times 3 Stuffed with

24 Utah city or while traveling can be expected. Do something to help a cause you believe
ham and

55 Shooting pain in.***
26 Bizet priestess cheese and 
CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Good times arc ahead if you take part in activities
59 Monteverdi

27 King Fahd _ then sauteed that include a lot of people. You will make new friends or even get involved in 
opera character

Abdul Aziz a business partnership. Put a little time aside for love and romance. **** 
4 Manager's boss

62 Food with gravy LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may know exactly what it is you arc trying to
29 Amount from a 
5 U.Va. or M.I.T. accomplish. Expect some opposition along the way. Take the path of least
63 Prudential

tube resistance and steer clear of people who like to play devil's advocate. ** 
competitor 6 Sleeping place

31 Show signs of a VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Hope you've planned a day trip or business trip. 65 Pat on the 7 Kidney-related You will make the greatest gains if you arc en route both personally andcold buns? professionally. Your mind is open to change and new ideas. ***** 
35 Pretax amount aMixes up 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get angry about the things that aren't happening 38 Show defiance 9 2001 hit movie in your life. Do something about it and hold on to what you've got. There will 
66 56, say 67 Smart musical be plenty of people trying to take your cash without your giving it away. *** 
39 Leslie Caron 32 National symbol 37 "Seinfeld" uncle 56 'The Time 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A new partnership will give you a positive spin musical 68 _speed 10 Grimace hinted at by the 41 Transcript fig. Machine" people on something you've been trying to do for some time. You can make deals and ends of 3-, 25-57 Knowing, sign contracts. Consider starting or expanding your own business interests. *** 
11 Spots before 44 Teatro Scala 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE and 9-Down (in SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A stubborn colleague may put a hold on
the eyes? slangily

order) 46 Mother of Apollo what you are trying to accomplish today. Prepare to deal with this person before -:-:+-:+.:-:t-:rl 12 Monopoly token 48 Turn of the 58 One side of a it's too late. Do whatever it takes to drum up the support you need. *** 33 Susan on the debate CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can't win at a personal level, and chances 
page?
..;:;+;.:+;=+:,;..j 13 "How 'bout 

small screen are good that you wiJI have trouble with your peers today. Book into a spa, get 
them ?" 52 Waggish 60 Architect 

a massage, go to the hairdresser, get a consultation with a makeover expert, but (class~ 34 Sporting gear 54 "A Beautiful Saarinen don't just sit around trying to force people who aren't going to budge. ***** conversation with bell guards Mind" star, 2001 61 "My bad!" . AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can expect to face difliculties with someone segue) regarding emotional issues you probably don't want to deal with. You aren't likely 
36 Top part 55 Chemist's salt 64 Writer Rand 
to be able to talk someone into changing his or her mind, so don't bother. Prepare '!!'t-.,.....,,-+-:....,.. ~:-t-:--t-:;-t-;-1 21 Completely fix yourself for your next big adventure. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The more you do with friends or the more involved
~=-+:,:+-=-B 23 Ballet bend 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
you become in your community, the more you will get in return. Consider the 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 

relationships you have with different people, and if you haven't been getting
~~~·· 25 Longtime NBC

.;:; sitcom star Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday anything back, you may want to Jet go. **** crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Birthday Baby: You are quick, intelligent and you can create your own
27 Puerto Rico y 

opportunities. You have pizzazz and discipline --a rare combination. You are
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000Mallorca 
creative, sensational and very capable of being a leader.
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
28 Riviera, e.g. 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugeniala.vt.comfor confidential 
30 "Phooey!" solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
consultations 

ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
NUIFY 
1 

rJ 

<!:l2005 Tribuna Madia Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LHEVO 
rJ 

WHAT HIS WIFE: C.ONC.L-UDEO HE: HAD WHE:N HE:

t
SACCUT 1 j WE:NT ON AN IC.£: C.RE:AM DIE:T.
r J r I I 
www.jumble.com 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: CHAOS KNIFE ABDUCT TURGIDYesterday's 
Answer: Why the student dropped the history class­IT HAD NO "FUTURE" 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, August 25, 2005 
page 24 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Brewing up honors 
Lauren Brewster looks to lead the Irish deep into the NCAAs 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
Lauren Brewster doesn't lis­ten to any out-of-the-ordinary music to prep her for big games. She doesn't showboat much on the court. And she isn't the loudest person on the Notre Dame volleyball team. So what sets her apart from her teammates? 
Her play, her leadership and her humility. 
"] think that in the past l've tried more to lead by example, but that's one of the things that I know I need to work on, to be more of a vocal leader," Brewster said. "[Sophomore setterI Ashley Tarutis, on our team, does a great job of that." 
Brewster, a 6-foot-3 senior middle blocker, has developed into one the nation's top all­around players. 
She is the Big East preseason player of the year and along with fellow senior Meg I lenican 
Pre-season Big East Player of the Year Lauren Brewster, right, spikes the ball past the see BREWSTER/page 16 outstretched arms of teammate Lauren Kelbley, left, during practice Aug. 17. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Playko backfro111 Germany 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Two years ago, Saint Mary's junior Kristen Playko was on top of the MIAA volleyball world. 
The outside hitter led the team with 496 kills and was named first-team all­conference as a freshman. 
Playko. however, has higher aspirations. She hopes one day to be on top of. the international busi­ness world. 
This desire influenced her decision to spend all of last year abroad in Austria, forgoing her soph­omore season. 
The Norwalk, Ohio 
native does not n~gret  her  
decision.  
She  viewed  it  as  an  

opportunity to combine her career aspirations with her fluency in 
see PLAYKO/page 16 

NO ATHLETICS Svvanagan appointed to vvork vvith students 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Former Notre Dame men's basketball captain Harold Swanagan has been named coordinator of student welfare and development at Notre Dame, the University announced Wednesday. 
Swanagan, who served as an intern with the basketball team's strength and conditioning program during the 2004-05 school year, accepted the new position Friday. 
He will work directly with Charmelle Green, director of the student-athlete develop­ment and welfare program, to get athletes involved in commu­nity service and rewarded for academic success, among other goals. 

"To me it's like coaching, but it's coaching kids on life," Swanagan said Wednesday night. 
The Student Development program focuses on five areas in providing a balanced experi­ence for student-athletes at Notre Dame: academic excel­lence, athletic success, career preparation, community involvement and personal development. 
lt teaches skills that land for­mer Division-! athletes like Swanagan, a former Big East Academic All-Star, in jobs out­side the realm of a specific sport. 
''I'll be teaching athletes that there's something outside the arena," he said. 
.Swanagan played forward for the Irish from 1998-2002 and averaged 6.2 points and 4.6 rebounds during his career. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Langenkamp wins tourney 
Tennis player takes ITA national title after semifinal win over Purdue rival 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Although it's unlikely that someone will ask Eric Langenkamp to write an essay about his summer vacation, the Notre Dame senior has a clear high­light -taking first place in the singles division of the ITA National Summer Championships. 
The three-time mono­gram winner was 6-0 in dual-match play for the Irish in the No. 6 spot last season. 
"It just showed that hard work pays off," he said. "I played a lot of matches over the summer 
see ITA/ page 16 



u.ws
FOOTBALl 
MLB 
GOLF 

MLS 
MlB 
LLI 
u Coach Charlie Weis 
Dodgers center fielder 
Rancho Buena Vista, 

2005 NCAA Champion 
FC Dallas 2 
White Sox 6 
z and his assistants are 
Milton Bradley accuses 
Calif. crushed Maitland, 

James Lepp advances to 
DC United 1 
Twins 4 

"-trying to find ways to 
teammate Jeff Kent of 
Fla. 6-2 to win a spot in 

the second round of the 
FC Dallas defeats DC 
Mark Buerhle allows
:3 
put as many talented 
not knowing "how to 
the United States' 

despite Freddy Adu's 
one run in eight innings 

U.S. Amateur, defeating 
= c:c players on the field as 
deal with African 
bracket title game. 

return from injury. 
to lead Chicago past

Kyle Reifers in a playoff. 
possible. 
American people." 
Minnesota.
!;: 
page 21
page 22 
page 19. 

page 15 
page 14
page 21 




