-----------------~~-­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 63 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2005 
Iraq war protests lag on campus 

By PETER NINNEMAN 
News Writer 
Despite the elamor of demonstrations and protests immediately following the dec­laration of the Iraq war in March 2003, a relative silence has swept over campus since about the ongoing military conllict. 
Last September, the Notre Dame Peace Coalition held a candlelight vigil for the more than 1,000 U.S. soldiers ­and more than 10,000 Iraqi civilians -lost in the war. The event attracted individuals from different political back­grounds, organizers told The Observer in a Sept. 10, 2004 article. 
Now, although the death toll 
Cable wiring slated for winter break 
University says it will activate extra television stations in all residence halls next fall 
N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Winter graduation in1pends 
Seniors prepare for early farewell to ND 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
College is supposed to bn the best four years of life, a time to let loose and be crazy between homework and class, sumo­thing most students arn sad to leave behind -but many stu­dents each year choosn to graduate early. 
Jennifer Locetta, an American Studies major, is one such student. 
"I decided to graduate early for a number of reasons, one of them being that I didn't really have to take a lot of' classes other semesters in order to do it," she said. 
Completing all class requirn­ments early was a factor for political science major Adam Hussell, as well. 
"I actually had planned on graduating a year early since I've been done with my major classes sincn last ynar, but. I had to drop a elass and rwednd to stay to take my seeond the­ology as a rnsult," he said. 
Christy Dietz, a psychology major and religious studies minor at Saint Mary's, decided to graduate early beforn she even arriv1~d at collnge her freshman year. 
"Freshman year when I real­ized I was going to start ofT with I H credits from IAdvancml Placmnnnt cours<~sl and post­secondary classes in high selwol, I just thought it sound­ed like a cool thing to do," shn 
see SENIORS/page 4 

for American soldiers breached 2,000 earlier this yea~ there have been no recent visible demonstrations or vigils on campus. 
Political science professor David Nickerson said the polit­ical activity on campus last year was "probably the result of the Lpresidential] election." 
"Bush's performance in Iraq was important to both cam­paigns, and the election was close," he said. "So activists on both sides were more likely to protest." 
Others attribute the lack of demonstration to coinciding, significant news. 
"I think a great deal of the silence [regarding] Iraq this semester was because of other 
see APATHY/page 6 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Notre Damn has dnlaynd the start date for cable installation until Christmas break due to stalled contractual agree­nwnts, Univnrsity ollicials said Thursday. 
"Tiwse arn pretty intrieate Iega I do<~ ullHHl ts, and both sidns IComcast Corporation and the Univnrsity) want to make sure all tho details are corn~d -thny wnre hammer­ing things out and trying to makn sure all the commas Wf'r<~ in placn," Direetor of llnsidnncn Life and Housing .Jell'rny Shoup said. 
Now that contracts an~ sigrwd and negotiations arn 
complete, Comcast workers will begin installing cable tele­vision and wireless internet Dec. 19 in six of the University's 27 residence halls, Shoup said. 
Barring any major complica­tions, Sorin College, Welsh Family, Keough, Badin, Lyons and lloward halls will be wire­less and cabin-television-ready when residents return after the Christmas holiday, Shoup said. 
Tho cable tnlevision won't be activated until next fall, once all dorms have been upgraded. 
Sorin was originally sched­uled to undergo the renova­tions before Christmas break, however contractual dil'ficul­
see CABLE/page 4 


Panel discusses AIDS hurdles 
By BRIDGET KEATING 
News Writer 
Thn AIDS pandemic is gravest for the impover­ishl~d and carries with it a stigma almost as dangerous as the illness itself. pan­elists said Thursday in a discussion about the dis­ease in the modern era. 
The forum, "AIDS in the 21st Century," focused on the disease as it is dis­cussed and reflected in soeial stigmas and empha­sized thn s11parate, non­medkal hurdles it poses. 
I>nbra Stanley of South Bnnd AIDS Ministries said tlw disease isn't as distant as some studnnts might 
see AIDS/page 4 



SMC expresses intent to diversify catnpus 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's President for Enrollment Management Daniel Meyer said he is committed to diversifying not only the College's student body, but also it's faculty and staff, at a Student Diversity Board (SOB) forum Thursday. 
"The effort to diversify at this campus is going to be ongoing, and it is going to bn from here on out. ... We are going to change," he said. 
Meyer was one of four speak­ers, including SDB president Amanda Shropshire, coordina­tor of Women's Studies Astrid Henry and director of Hnsident Life Michelle Hussell, to ofl'er his perspective on how a more diverse atmosphere can con­tribute to the College's excel­lence. 
"Frankly, you can come to Saint Mary's with very unhealthy attitudes about diver­sity, and in the fours years here !never have those attitudes challenged)," he said. 
Meyer said with incrnased diversity comes grnater sensitiv­ity. Further. the term "liberal arts" is Latin for "liberating the mind." 
"There is no better way to do that than to expose yi1u to dif­
see DIVERSITY/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, December 2, 2005 

INSIDE CoLUMN 


A football fan's holiday wish list 
1. 
A kicker -our best kicker was hurt and wearing a knee brace, yet Charlie kept sending him out onto the field because who else was he going to put in? Here's hoping we get someone with a golden Tom Chesnick foot so we never have to worry about losing a AssistantAds game over a Manager missed extra point again. And how about letting Brady punt from now on? He is leading the nation in punting with a 48-yard average. 

2. 
A bowl victory for the Irish ­with a BCS bowl win, Notre Dame will finish in the top five in the country for the first time in what seems like an eternity. 

3. 
That USC win its bowl game and go undefeated until we hand them a humiliating loss next sea­son en route to a National Championship. 

4. 
That James Aldridge is the next Reggie Bush. 

5. 
Two more inches for Ambrose Wooden because the kid is our best corner and with those few extra inches, who knows what could have happened (see USC game). 

6. 
That Victor Abiamiri's four sacks against the Cardinal on Saturday become a regular occur­rence· next season. 

7. 
An upset Heisman victory for Brady Quinn this year, because let's face it-that would be awesome. 

8. 
A reunion between Charlie Weis and Romeo Crennel, the head coach of the Cleveland Browns and former Patriots defensive coordina­tor. With Romeo coaching the defense, we wouldn't lose another game for at least 20 years. 

9. 
Another year of eligibility for Mr. Stovall. Can you imagine a wide receiver set comprised of the Shark, MoSto and Rhema? We would average somewhere around 100 points a game. 

10. 
A better selection for the Leprechaun next year. Well, at least one who knows what he's doing and doesn't struggle to do push-ups with the cheerleaders. 

11. 
That Brandon Hoyte and Corey Mays go on to have success­ful NFL careers because they deserve it. 

12. 
Free season tickets to the guys in pink shirts who kept put­ting up the football recruits during the games -even if they weighed 300 pounds. 

13. 
For next year, a wish that the police, excise or whatever you want to call them leave the tail­gates before games alone and try to find something better to do. Let the fans have some fun and quit ruining an important aspect of the Notre Dame football experience ­tailgates. 


Contact Tom Chesnick at tchesnic@nd. edu The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards idas a profi:ssional publication and strives fur rhe highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU SUPPORT THE WAR IN IRAQ? 





Caitlin Smith  Dan Hougendabler  Fernando Quijano  Landon LaSyone  Monica Real  Lisa Grob  
senior Farley  junior St. Ed's  sophomore Carroll  junior Dillon  senior Farley  junior Farley  
"No, Tve been  "No, I think we  "Your country's  "Yeah, I support  "If by  "Heck no!"  
against it since  are doing more  problems are of  the war in Iraq.  supporting the  
it started. Bush  harm than good  no interest to me  Everyone else is  war in Iraq  
needs to wake  there."  in my plans  trippin'!"  you mean  
up and smell  for world  supporting  
the coffee. "  domination!,,  cancelling  
exams, then  

Scientists cook up cure for cow flatulence 
LONDON·-Cows belch­ing and breaking wind cause methane pollution but British scientists say they have developed a diet to make pastures smell like roses -almost. 
"In some experiments we get a 70 percent decrease [in methane emissions], which is quite staggering," biochemist John Wallace said in a telephone inter­view. 
Wallace, leader of the microbial biochemistry group at the Rowett Research Institute in Aberdeen, said the secret 
TODAY 



methane are landfills, coalmines, rice paddies and bogs. 
Rowdy teens beware: the Mosquito is coming 
LONDON -A Welsh inventqr claims to have found the perfect solution to rowdy youngsters ­noise. 
Howard Stapleton says his device, the "Mosquito," emits an uncomfortable high-pitched ultrasonic sound that can be heard by children and teenagers but almost no one over 30. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
to sweeter-smelling cows is a food additive based on fumaric acid, a naturally occurring chemical essen­tial to respiration of ani­mal and vegetable tissues. 
A 12-month commercial and scientific evaluation of the additive has just begun, but he said if it proves successful it could be a boon to cutting down on greenhouse gas emis­sions. 
"In total around 14 per­cent of global methane comes from the guts of farm animals. It is worth doing something about," Wallace said. 
Other big sources of 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
..... 
cC 
(.) 


.3 HIGH 29 
LOW 22 

HIGH LOW 

31 15 

30 23 
yes. 
IN BRIEF 
The Dance Company of Notre Dame will perform tonight at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. The perform­ance, entitled "Soul," will fea­ture various genres of dance, including jazz, lyrical and mod­ern. General admission tickets are available for $3 and pre­ferred seating is $5. Tickets are available at the door or in advance by contacting Ashley Lucchese at dancco@nd.edu. 
Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity will hold a Jail n' Bail fundraiser tomorrow in the middle of South Quad from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Student vol­unteers will be "arrested" by Notre Dame Security/Police and taken to the jail in the middle of South Quad. The hypotheti­cal inmates will have to stay there until they raise $50 in bail money. 
The Saint Mary's Department of Music will sponsor its 33rd annual Madrigal Dinners Friday, Saturday and Sunday at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. in Regina Hall. The medieval Christmas festival includes singers, instrumentalists, jug­gling and a variety of other performers. For ticket informa­tion call the box office at 284­4626. 
The Notre Dame Voices of Faith gospel choir will hold its Winter Concert Saturday at 7 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is $3 for students with an ID. Guest performers will include Jeff "Da Natural" Stephens and Brian "B-Phrase" Frasier. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


27 20 

27 20 

Friday, December 2, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Carnegie Hall hosts SMC choir 
45 College students perform at New York City's historic venue 
By AMANDA SHROPSHIRE 
Nt·w, Wrilcr 
Forty-five Saint Mary's stu­dents now know the answer to the age-old Nnw York joke, "how do you gel to Carnegie llall?'' 
The answer: lots of practice. 
Tlw Saint Mary's College Wonwn's Choir travnled to the Big Apple from Nov. I 9 to Nov. 22 to perform in the historic vmwn. 
Dr. Nancy Mnnk, chair of the Saint Mary's musk department and direetor of the Women's and Collegiate Choirs at the College, has directed the ehoir in an ensmnble at the llall sev­eral times in the past 12 years. 
"We provide this opportunity at least onee evnry four years so that each student W~L<; the chance to do this while she is at Saint M1~ry's," ..~enk satd. l•.ach time we've done different rnpertoire." 
While in pre­vious years the choir brought 
along alumnae to supplement the Wonwn's Choir, this year it was unnecessary as 45 choir nwmlwrs made the trip. They performed a total of eight pieces from contemporary American composer Gwyneth Walker's "Women's Voiees and Orehestra" series alongside six other ehoirs and an orehestra. 
The 220 total performance members blended voices and experienee 

To prepare for the perform­ance while in New York, the choir spent 11 hours praeticing with the other choirs -one hour of which was with the orchestra. 
Choir members said the extra rehearsal time was not 
levels ranging from 'Jts a performer, a damper on high school to adult the trip, but
this was definitely
community choirs. made them Menk, who also eon­the highlight ofmy increasingly duets the South Bend excited to
career. 

Chamber Singers and perform in the Northwest Indiana the world­
Lauren Condon 
Symphony Orchestra, famous said the Carnegie per­Saint Mary's senior venue. 
formanee was extremely successful. She also said appreciated the unique opportunity to perform 
"We provide this opportunity at least once every four years so that each student gets the chance to do this while she is at Saint Mary's." 
Dr. Nancy Menk Music department chair 
alongside an orchestra. 
"The orchestra­tions worked beautifully, and it was a thrill for the chorus to sing them with orches­tra after singing them only with the piano," she said. 
In addition to 
regular choir practices three nights a week ­which were large­
ly geared toward the Carnegie Hall concert-the women pre­viewed their fall eoneert to the College before leaving. 

"This was 
my first year on the trip so I was nervous and excited," said senior Lauren Condon. "My mom and dad came out to see me, so it was nice. havi~.g people I knew in the audience. 
The show attracted an audi­ence of 2,400 people on the evening of Nov. 22 -induding the composer herself. 
Condon said she feels accom­plished and relishes the experi­ence. 
"As a performer, this was defi­nitely the highlight of my career," Condon said. "To be able to stand on the same stage as all of the great musidans of the past was just an amazing feeling." 
Contact Amanda Shropshire at AshropO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Challenges face youth 
sports, researcher says 
Special to The Observer 
There are some glaring ethi­cal problems in Ameriean youth sports -from cheating to taunting to disrespect-but the news isn't all bad, accord­ing to a new study co-authored by University of Notre Dame researcher F. Clark Power. 
"The Sport Behavior of Youth, Parents, and Coaches: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly," the study evaluated responses to a survey by 803 athletes ranging in age from nine to 15, as well as 189 par­ents and 61 youth sports coaches. 
Key findings among the young athletes included: 
+ 
Almost one in 10 acknowl­edged cheating

+ 
31 percent argued with an official 

+ 
13 percent made fun of a less-skilled teammate 

+ 
27 percent admitted to act­ing like a "bad sport" 


Compounding the above find­ings was a lack of remorse for such actions. Fourteen percent of the youngsters said they believe cheating is acceptable behavior, and 32 percent con­sider arguing with officials to be part of the game. 
The study also found poor behavior among parents and coaches. 
For example, 13 percent of 
parents aeknowledged angrily criticizing tlwir child's per­formance. Among coaches, eight percent encouraged their athletes to hurt an opponnnt, seven pereent condoned cheat­ing, 33 percent admitted to yelling at players for making mistakes and 20 percent had made fun of a team member with limited skills. 
Perhaps most alarming, four percent of the young athletes reported that a coach had hit, kieked or slapped them. 
But there was somn good news in the study. 
Most of the participants said they enjoy their sports experi­ences, and most parents believe their children's coaches do a good job. 
The study will be published 
+ 
13 percent tried to injure an opponent 


Dec.  1  in  the  Journal  of  
Research  in  Character  
Education.  

Power is the assoeiate din~c­tor of Notre Dame's Center for Ethical Edueation and a profes­sor in the Program of Liberal Studies. lie has developed the Play Like a Champion Educational Series, a research­based curriculum designed to assist Catholic parishes, schools and dioeeses in nurtur­ing character and spiritual development in young people through athletics. The author of five books, he specializes in the study of self-awareness, moral development and demo­cratic education. 

Friday, December 2, 2005 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
AIDS 
continued from page 1 
think. Saint Joseph County has the third highest number of individuals suffering from AIDS in Indiana, she said. 
"Stigma is the big problem with this virus," she said. "Stigma 
of AIDS, poverty, "Stigma is the big To mark the race, ethnicity, occasion on
problem with this 

substance abuse campus, the
virus.

and more. AIDS Center for does not discrimi­Social nate-we do." Derbra Stanley Concerns 
Sociology profes­planned a
South Bend AIDS 

sor Jackie Smith series of edu-
Ministries

said poverty plays a role in the AIDS epidemic because the poor are frequently unable to receive proper nutrition and care. 
"It is not a physiological problem -it is a sociological one," she said. "AIDS is a dis­ease of the poor." 
The poorest countries in the world are spending more each year pay­ing off debts to 
est to the rich­est nations in debt repay­ment," she said. "We may think we are helping the poor, but that is not always the case." 
Theology professor Maura Ryan said awareness is piv­otal in the fight against AIDS. Recognition that the problem is not just far across the globe -but in our own back­yards -is vital to overcom­ing it, she said. 
Stanley said when the virus hits one person, it affects their family, friends, school, church and entire whole social structure. 
"[Ignorance is] killing us and allowing the virus to thrive," she said. "We, the people, are the cure." 
World AIDS Day is com­
memorated 
every Dec. 1. 
"We all should feel 

the richest and educa­countries than connected to the tion," said they are on DeStephano,
cause and be talking 

their own who spent the
about the issues in an

healthcare, summer in Smith said. educated manner." Cambodia. "In 2004, Distler said $200 billion she was
Kate Distler 

transferred pleased with 
senior

from the poor­the "excite­
cational events 
designed  to  
teach students  about  the  
virus.  

Seniors Kate Distler and Chris DeStephano brought the day of action to campus after being inspired by internation­al service trips last summer to disease-ravaged areas. 
"We are happy to be a part 
of this event and build groundwork for future growth 
ment of stu­dents surrounding this grass roots campaign." 
"We all should feel connect­ed to the cause and be talking about the issues in an educat­ed manner," she said. 
A 6:45 p.m. Rosary at the Grotto tomorrow concludes World AIDS Day events on campus. 
Contact Bridget Keating at bkeating@nd.edu 



Seniors 
continued from page 1 
said. "I also realized it would save a semester's tuition if I could graduate early. At that point I started planning on it." 
Saving money on tuition was also a factor in Locetta's deci­sion to graduate early. 
"Money-wise, if I didn't have to take another semester, why would I?" Locetta said. ''I'd rather save the money." 
The perception is that early graduation gives students an advantage in the competitive job market students face after school, but this might not always be the case. Locetta's search was not influenced by her decision to graduate early because she already had a job. , 
"Graduating early hasn't really affected my job search because I already have a job, and since it's in the private sector, it wasn't much of a factor," Locetta said. 
Searching for a career was­n't an issue for Russell or Dietz either, as they both plan on attending graduate school. Early graduation won't affect their application process, but will provide them with some time off before starting gradu­ate classes. 
''I've been planning on going to law school so graduating early hasn't really had an affect on that except I'm going to have eight months of dead time in between," Russell said. "I am going to go back home and get some kind of job in the meantime, but it's kind of awkward because it's not long enough to get any type of respectable job." 
Dietz is also looking forvyard to the opportunity to gain work experience. 
"As the years passed I start­ed to become more and more scared of the idea of leaving Saint Mary's any sooner than I had to, but I knew there was no turning back so I began comforting myself with the idea that graduating early would give me seven to eight months of full-time work experience before starting graduate school in the fall," she said. 
In January, Dietz said she will move into an apartment and work as a full-time coun­selor at a women's care cen­ter in South Bend. 
"I volunteered there over the summer and when they found out I would be looking for work they offered me a full-time position," she said, "It's a job I love and I'm really excited about it." 
Students said there are many benefits to early gradua­
tion, but leav­'7just couldn 't day in and day ing behind an justify paying to out," she said. "I endeared place love Saint Mary's
take Jour useless 
and college and it's really sad
electives to stay
friends can still to know that in a be difficult to here." few short weeks do. they'll be kicking 
Russell didn't me out of LeMans
Jennifer Locetta 
expect to have 

senior
any regrets about graduat­ing a semester early, but has begun to think about his decision now that his time on-campus is dwin­dling. 
"I have been planning on graduating early, but now that senior year is here, I think I will regret missing second semester because people are busy with interviewing and applying to graduate school first semester," he said. "Second semester is more of a time to unwind, and I am sad that I won't be able to hang out with my friends. [But] I just couldn't justify paying to take four useless electives to lot of friends behind, but she also laments not being able to spend more time with her classmates in the second semester. 
"I have a lot of friends in grades ahead of me, so that was another reason I wanted to graduate early," Locetta said. "I don't feel like I will be missing out on a lot, but I have noticed that people are much more relaxed about who they hang out with as seniors and I have met more people this year than I have any other year as a result." 
Dietz faces a different situa­tion once she leaves campus because her job will keep her in South Bend, though she too will miss her friends and being on campus everyday. 
"I think I really am going to 
miss just being 
here on campus 
and giving me a 
degree. On the 
other hand, I have 
decided to live and work in South Bend rather than moving away second semester so I won't have to leave my friends or miss out on any events." 
Despite the few regrets she has about leaving her under­graduate years behind, Dietz said the positive outweighed the negative and recommends early graduation to anyone who might be giving it thought. 
"My best advice for anyone thinking about trying to grad­uate early is this -go for it," she said. 

stay here." Contact Laura Baumgartner at Locetta won't be leaving a lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Cable 
continued from page 1 
ties prevented that from hap­pening. Since it is one of the old­est dorms on campus, officials had hoped to target and solve any problems that arose during its renovation to speed up the process in the other dorms. 
By the fall of 2006, every dorm room on campus will be wireless and shut down. 
Shoup called this the "dark period" and said he plans to meet with the rector, hall staff and residents of each dorm before they undergo the upgrade to explain the proce­dure and how it will affect dorm life. 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing has scheduled an information session open to all students where Shoup will 

A Special Tour ... 
Basilica of Sacred Heart 

have access to "We have some tentative Comcast's schedules, but ifwe 
expanded basic 
start to run behind or 

cable option, 
associate vice run ahead, that could president of change."residence life and housing 
Jeffrey Shoup 

Bill Kirk said in an article director appearing in Office of 
The Observer Residence Life and Housing 
answer ques­tions about the upgrade process. It is scheduled for Tuesday, Dec. 6 at 5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 
s h 0 u p declined to provide a timetable for 
the remainingresidence halls, but said that the 

International Students, Scholars and Families 
Sunday, December 4, 1:30 p.m. 
Fr. Peter Rocca, CSC, Rector of the Basilica, -will share -with you stories of this very special place at the heart of the University. Reception follo-ws. 
S'ponsored by: C'anzpus Ministry 
Fiscller, O'fiara-G'race Graduate /leside11ces Inter11atio11al Stzulent Services & Activities U11iversity Village 
on Nov. 7. 
Under the revised plan, the remaining residence halls will be upgraded in sets of three throughout the spring. Morrissey Manor, McGlinn and Walsh will undergo the renova­tions immediately after Christmas break -and stu­dents living in those dorms must cope with no Internet or tele­phone service during the two­week renovation period. The ID card swiping system will also be upgrades will still be completed by early June. 
"We have some tentative schedules but if we start to run behind or run ahead, that could change," Shoup said. "We're only looking ahead to the next three, given these are the first ones we've done." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Friday, December 2, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
AIDS education campaigns in Africa 
FATICK -Schoolehildren in Senegal pledgnd to abstain from sox and village women in India cast oil' a vnil of shame about tlwir IllY status as World AIDS Day was rnarkml Thursday around the globo. 
"Our toadwr told us that AIDS is a very dangerous disnase," said I:~-yoar-old Aissatou Niang, wnaring a green Muslim headscarf. "Only abstilwncn nm save us," she said as her sdwolrnates giggled nearby. 
Such frank talk among African children is key, say anti-AIDS campaigners who empha­size sdmu:e ntn help combat the disease, but ignorancn or taboos surrounding its transmis­sion nwans AIDS is hard to halt-and trnat. 
About 40 million pnopln worldwide are inf'netnd with IllY. tlw virus that causns Alt>S. Sonw :I million of tlwm are expected to die of AlllS this year. Africa, with only to percent of' thn world's population, sufli~rs ovor hall' of its IllY infections. 
High court approves gay marriage 
.JOIIANNI\SBUHG-South Africa's highest r:ourt rulml in fitvor of' gay marriagn Thursday. a landmark dncision that dnars tho way lhr the eountry to lweonw the first to legalizo same-sex unions on a continent wlwre homosexuality rnmains laq~nly taboo. 
Thn dm:ision dons not take irnmndiato oll'eet, lwwnvnr. Thn Constitutional Court, which dndd­
•~d il is uneonstitutional to prohibit gays from marrying, gave Parliament a yoar to make the rwc•~ssary legal changes. That disappointed gay righl"i adivisL"i, some of whom have been wait­ing years to wed. 
(:an ada, the Netherlands, Bnlgium and Spain are the only nations that now allow gay mar­riage nationwide. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

50 year anniversary of Rosa Parks 
MONTGOMEHY -About 2,000 children marctwd ann-in-arm Thursday, singing "We Shall Overcome" as this once-segregated city marked the 50th anniversary of Rosa Parks' refusal to give up her bus seat to a white man. 
"Because of the action of Hosa Parks we havn witnessed -here in Montgomery, in the state of Alabama, all across the South ­unbelievable changes," Hep. John Lewis, D­Ga., said after laying a wreath at the site where Parks was arrest•~d on Dec. 1, 1955. 
The children, both black and white, marclwd eight blocks from the downtown site to the Capitol, singing anthems of the civil rights era and chanting "Thank you, Hosa Parks." 
Tlw march was one of many events in Montgomery and elsewhere remembering Parks' stand and the 3S 1-day bus boycott that lilllowed. She died Oct. 24 at age 92 in Detroit. 

Gulf Coast must pay mortgage again 
OCEAN SPHIN<;s -Like many homeownnrs around here, .Janet Kisling owes a piln of debt on littlo morn than a piln of debris. She has a $I ,000-a-month mortgage on a home that is uninhabitable. 
For lwr and others along the Gulf Coast, Decmnlwr brings a cruel cut-oil': It marks the end of' an informal 90-day grace period that many lenders ollim~d to I lurricann Katrina vic­tims that let them put their mortgage paymonts on hold. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Mayor urges statewide central time 
SOl/Til BI\NI> -The city's mayor said the state should push for all of Indiana to be moved into the Centntl time zone, challenging (;ov. Mitd1 Daniels' contnntion that such a swit!'h is unattainable. 
"HathN, I believe that it has been lel't untried." Mayor Stephen Luecke said Wndnnsday. 
l>aninls on Tuesday urged tlu~ U.S. Department of' Transportation to reject tlw n~qtwst of St. .losPph County. whir.h includes South BtHHI, to move to Central time. 
AUSTRIA 


U.S. allies withdraw from Iraq 
Bulgaria and Ukraine pull out troops; six other countries consider reductions 
Associated Press 

VIENNA -Two of 
America's allies in Iraq 
are withdrawing forces 
this month and a half­
dozen others are debating 
possible pullouts or 
reductions, increasing 
pressurn on Washington 
as calls mount to bring 
home U.S. troops. 

Bulgaria and Ukraine will begin withdrawing their eombined 1,250 troops by mid-December. If Australia, Britain, Italy, Japan, Poland and South Korea reduce or recall their personnel, more than half of the non­American forces in Iraq could be gone by next summnr. 
Japan and South Korea help with reconstruction, but Britain and Australia provide substantial sup­port forces and Italy and Poland train Iraqi troops and police. Their exodus would deal a blow to American efforts to pre­pare Iraqis to take over the most dangerous peacekeeping tasks and craft an eventual U.S. exit strategy. 
"The vibrations of unease from within the United States clearly have an impact on public opin­ion elsewhere," said Terence Taylor of the International Institute for combat personnel from Bliznakov said. stopped in Mongolia on Strategic Studies in 27 countries. The coali­In his strategy for Iraq, his recent Asia trip and Washington. "Public opin­tion has steadily unrav­announced Wednesday, praised its force of about ion in many of these eled as the death toll rises President Bush said 120 soldiers in Iraq as countries is heavily divid­and angry publics clamor expanding international "fearless warriors." ed." for troops to leave. support was one of his At least 2,109 U.S. serv­
Although the nearly In the spring, the goals. He also seemed to ice personnel have died 160,000-member U.S. Netherlands had 1,400 address the issue of more since the beginning of the force in Iraq dwarfs the troops in Iraq. Today, allies withdrawing. Iraq war, according to an second-largest contingent there are 19, including a "As our posture Associated Press count. -Britain's 8,000 in Iraq lone Dutch soldier in changes over time, so too At least 200 troops from and 2,000 elsewhere in Baghdad. will the posture of our other countries also have the Gulf region -its sup­Ukraine's remammg coalition partners," the died, including 98 from port has shrunk substan­876 troops in Iraq are document says. "We and Britain. Othnr tolls: Italy, tially. due home by Dec. 31, ful­the Iraqis must work with 27; Ukraine, 18; Poland, 
In the months after the filling a campaign pledge them to coordinate our 17; Bulgaria, 1:~; Spain, March 2003 invasion, the by President Viktor efforts, helping Iraq to 11; Slovakia, thrt~o; multinational force num­Yushchenko. Bulgaria is consolidate and secure its Denmark, El Salvador, bered about 300,000 sol­pulling out its 380 troops gains on many different Estonia, Nntherlands, diers from 38 countries. after Dec. 15 parliamen­fronts." Thailand, two eaeh; That figure is now just tary elections, Defense Struggling to shore up Hungary, Kazakhstan, under 24,000 mostly non-Minister Veselin the coalition, Bush Latvia, orw nach. 

Landmark execution carried out 
Associated Press 

HALEIGII -A man who killed his wife and father-in-law pinned his hopes on last-minute intervention from the governor or the eourts as he awaited lnthal injection early Friday in the nation's 1,OOOth exncution since capital punishment rnsumod in 1977. 
Kenneth Lne Boyd, set to dio at 2 a.m., spent the day receiving visitors, induding two sons who watchnd him gun down thnir mother and grandfa­ther in 198S. 
"I le would love to live and he would love to have tho governor and the courts step in, but he's also facing the possibility that won't happen," said Boyd's lawyer. Thomas Maher. 
Larger-than-normal erowds of pro­testers were expected at the prison in Raleigh, and vigils were planned across the state. Prison officials planned to tighten security. 
The U.S. Supreme Court and the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rejected appeals by Boyd's lawyers Thursday. 
The defonse also sought elemency from Democratic Gov. Mike Easley, but thoro was little to suggest Boyd would get it. The governor granted condemned inmates clemency only twice in noarly live years in ol'lice, during whieh time 22 inmates haw~ been put to death. 
Boyd, 57, did not d(~IIY that he shot and killed Julie Curry Boyd, 3h, and her father, 57-yoar-old Thomas Dillard Curry. Family members said Boyd stalked his estranged wife after they separated following 13 stormy years of marriage and onee sent a son to her house with a bullet and a threatoning note. 
During the slayings, Boyd's son Christopher was pinned under his mother's body as Boyd unloadnd a .357-Magnum into hnr. Tlw boy pushnd his way under a bed to nscapn the barrage. Anothnr son grablwd tiH~ pistol while Boyd tried to rPioad. 
page 6 Friday, December 2, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Apathy 
continued from page 1 

stories that have overwhelmed the nation, such as Hurricane Katrina [and] the Libby indict­ment," said Colin Taylor, co­president of the Notre Dame College Democrats. 
Taylor said "crass 24-hour media outlets," which he said habitually favor murder stories over Iraq coverage, are also to blame. 
Political science professor Louis Ayala said students may not even be watching news, and major media outlets tend not to gear their chosen coverage toward the student demograph­ic. 
"I wonder just how much knowledge there is among students 
about what's "Students don't Ayala said 
cent Native American and 0.7 
going on right although "sus­
percent international, Henry
come to South Bend 
now [in Iraq]." tained effort leads 
said.

to protest." 
Henry offered national ethnic 
Ayala said. to gradual 
Peace Studies change," students 
statistics from the most recent 
professor David David Nickerson tend to misunder­
federal census, which reported 
Cortright offered stand the value of 
the country's population
professor
his thoughts on protest. 
breakdown as 69 percent

political science 
white, 12.1 percent black, 12.5 
student knowl­Laura Fox, co-
edge and intent. Cortright serves as president of Fourth Freedom Forum, a group that explores the nonvio­lent resolution of international contlict through research, public education and dialogue with experts and media communica­tions. 
"Many students oppose the war and want U.S. troops to come home, but like many Americans they are unsure about when and how military exit should take place," he said. 
Catherine Kent, vice president of the Notre Dame College Libertarians, said there is a gen­eral political apathy at the University linked to the absence of lasting protests and demon­strations. 
"People do care -although perhaps not as much as they should -but it is difficult to see how demonstrations or protests in South Bend could have a viable effect on the persuasions of policy makers in Washington and interest groups in major cities," she said. 
Kent and Ayala agreed that when students weigh the costs and benefits of remaining politi­cally informed and active, they generally don't see the benefits as coming out on top, tending to deem only the immediate results worthwhile. 
"When opposition to the war did not end it within the time frame in which it was expected to, many people lost their fervor and moved on with their lives," Kent said. 
Despite popular belief. Nickerson said college students are generally not activists. 
"There are only a handful of campuses known for activism, lsueh asl Madison or Berkeley -students don't come to South Bend to protest," he said. ''I'm sure students are talking and arguing about the war [in small­er venues!. Many college stu­dents enjoy debating and argu­ing." 
Ayala agreed and said he did­n't think Notre Dame was out of the "mainstream." 
"The consensus is similar to the rest of college campuses," he said. "For whatever reason, most students don't see this pol­icy of impact as having any influence on them land] they don't see it as being worthy their resources." 
Nickerson said in order to stage a large-scale activity, both organizers and willing partici­pants are necessary. 
"Most college campuses exhibit a dearth of both right 
now  and Notre Dame is  no  
exception,"  he  
said.  



Diversity 
continued from page 1 
ferent view points," he said. 

As Henry approached the podium, she asked those pres­ent to look around and exam­ine the people in attendance. 
"I think we see a lot more faces of color tonight than if we were pulling the entire school," she said. 
Henry said she had hoped to see more white faces, and sug­gested the makeup of the group indicated something about the importance of diver­sity among many white stu­dents at the College. 
The ethnic breakdown of the Saint Mary's student body is 
91.4 percent white, 3.4 per­cent Latina. 0.8 percent black, 
2.81 percent Asian, 0.5 per­school graduates, with two million fewer white students and 1.5 additional minority students. 
If Saint Mary's sticks to its traditional white roots, its recruiting pool will shrink, he said. 
"We need to be very serious and very committed to diversi­ty or we need to face the reali­ty that we will have fewer stu­dents, fewer faculty and fewer administrators," Meyer said. 
Meyer said his goal was to have minority enrollment at the College between 12 per­cent and 15 percent within the next five years. The break­down should be representative of the states it pulls from ­mainly Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and Ohio, he said. 
Meyer said the admissions office must begin to reach out to different high schools, including those in the South Bend area. 
"I think the thing the admis­sions office needs to do is go fishing in a different pond," he said. 
But Shropshire said some people mistake the need for diversity as a need to increase the number of minorities on campus, or to make those minorities already here feel more comfortable. 
Instead, she said diversity is about learning about other people's life experiences and expanding one's own. A diverse campus would be "an asset" to the College and would add to a "well-rounded college experience." 
"If that means sitting with someone outside of your circle for lunch or going to a club meeting to meet different peo­ple or becoming a member of a board that deals with diversity, or staying to ask questions on how you can help at the end of this forum, you have taken the proper steps to help further empowerment of the women of Saint Mary's College," she said. 
All speakers said a diverse student body and staff would include individuals from vary­ing ethnic, socioeconomic, reli­gious and sexually oriented backgrounds. 
Russell said other Catholic institutions -such as DePaul -have created welcoming environments for students by establishing student centers and dorms for gay and lesbian students. 
Diversity training is a good starting point for her and other members of the College com­munity, Russell said. 
"As a white person, I have to start by educating myself," Russell said. "I have to make an effort ... I have to be the person who wants to engage." 
The academic life of Sain Mary's would also benefit from a more diverse student bod and faculty, Henry said. As white woman, she said sh often finds herself teaching class of all white students. Bu 
she strives to diversify her cur riculum. 
"We are not going to jus read white writers and whit women," she said. "Why? Because that is not reality." 
Both Meyer and Russell said a diverse faculty and staff would increase classroom dis­cussion -a crucial improve­ment for the College. 
"I would put faculty and staff diversification as a far greater [need] right now than [that of1 the [student body)." Meyer said 
Saint Mary's alumnae can also play a major role in diver­sifying the student body, Meyer said. 
"I think the other thing is we need to engage our alumnae," he said. "We have a lot of alumnae, especially diversity alumnae, who are not engaged with the institution." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

president of the NO Peace Coalition, said the group has participated in numerous events off-campus, but has "neglected" to hold a lot of on-campus events. 
"We're going to do our best to promote more activism [next semester] ... and maybe work with other political campus groups," she said. 
Although campus groups have not organized any visible demonstrations on campus, some Notre Dame students have taken a more proactive approach to political involve­ment by attending rallies in Atlanta and Washington, D.C. 
Members of the College Democrats also attended Cindy Sheehan's visit to South Bend earlier in the year. Sheehan, the mother of late U.S. Army percent Hispanic, 3.6 percent Asian, 0.7 percent American Indian and 1.6 percent bira­cial. 
She predicted that by 2050, there will be no majority race in the United States and said it is already a fact in several states and major cities. 
"We live in a country that is racially diverse," Henry said. "I think we do our students a disservice if we do not prepare them for living in that environ­ment." 
Meyer said Saint Mary's will face serious consequences if it does not address major demo­graphic changes in the United States' high school population. Estimates show that by 2015, there will be a demographic swing of 3. 5 million high 

Specialist Casey Sheehan, attained national media atten­tion when she demonstrated 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents against the Iraq. War at the George W. Bush's Texas ranch 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
earlier this fall. Notre Dame College Republican co-president Emily 
CHORALE & CHAMBER ORCHESTRA
Kennedy declined comment Thursday. 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY. DIRECTOR 
Contact Peter Ninneman at 
pninnema@nd.edu 

8:00p.m. ·Friday, December 2, 2005 
8:00 p.m.· Saturday, December 3, 2005 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALl DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
&~i!i 

'~!?! TIC:HTS $1 0/$1!/$6/$3 MARIE P DEBARTOlO PHONE 574-631-2800 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CENTER fOR THE PERFORMING ARTS DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Friday, December 2, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 10,912.57 +I 06.70
}ones 
.A 
Upt Same: Down: Composite Volurn .2,543 120 '-~~~ 2,630,046,110 
AMEX  1,709.48  +19.68  
NASDAQ  2,267.17  +34.35  
NYSE  7.756.54  + 111.26  
S&PSOO  I ,264.67  +15.19  
NIKKEI(Tokyo)  (5.259.44  +136.19  
FTSE IOO(London) 5,4X6.1 0  +62.90  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  +8.95  +0.23  2.80  
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ)  + 1.86  +0.767  42.007  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.76  . +0.21  27.89  
INTEL CP (INTC)  + 1.87  +0.50  27.18  
SUN MICROSYS INC (CSCO)  +3.00  +0.113  3.883  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.49  +0.23  4 7.26  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.47  +0.21  45.21  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.56  +0.25  44.50  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.52  +0.20  38.77  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.15  58.47  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +7.60  506.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.90  89.15  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  120.6000  
EURO  0.8519  
POUND  0.5776  

IN BRIEF 
Prices low for digital photo printing 
St\N .JOSE -Point. Shoot. Print. Gntting a hard mpy of your rrwmorios has mwnr bonn nasi or. 
Pkture this: Morn than two-thirds of the esti­mallld 17 billion prints from digital cameras madn this ynar wnm crmttnd from the comfort of snap-happy Amoriean homes 
t\nothnr 27 pnrcnnt came from tho photofinish­ing snrvicns of mtailers. where people either use the snlf'-serve computer terminals at the counter or placn thnir ordnrs onlinn lilr pickup later at the store. 
Tho remaindnr, aceording to market researcher IDC, worn dnlivnrml straight to consumers via onlinn snrvicns that nowadays charge as low as a dime a print, not counting shipping eosl<>. 
In f'aet, whiln priens vary, market researchers say tlw retail routo is genorally cheaper than do­it-yoursnlf inkjnt printing. 
Bnyond theso main options for getting pietures rnadn are eountlnss variations. 
In l'nnnsylvania, proud parenl<; can order pic­turns of their nnwborns from a photo kiosk before thny lnave thn hospital. In Maine, customers can go to Cafn Click, one of the growing number of digital printing loungns that oll'cr gourmet cofl'ce and a kids play anm. 
With so many printing ehoices today-not to mention price cuts and promotions -shutter­bugs oftnn lind ehoosing how to get a print in hand is the hardost part. 

Toyota vehicle recalls double in 2005 
Wt\SIIINGTON -Toyota Motor Corp., which is challenging General Motors Co. to boeome tho world's largnst automaker, saw its number of recalled vehides in the Unitnd Statns dou-· hie in 2005. according to government records. 
Ovmall. the number of autos ordered to be returned to dt>alerships for rnpairs was down considerably in 2005 -totaling about 16.6 million through mid-Novembnr, eomparnd with a record 30.R million the previous year. 
VehidtlS have lwen reealled in larger quan­tities siru:e tlw mid-IIJ'JOs and have lluetuatod from ynar to ycmr. Automaknrs and analysts say that with more automohilns using sharPd parts or platforms. recall data does not always rnf'IPrl a vPhicln's quality or safety attrihutns. 
In Toyota's ease, analysts said it eould bt> a funC'lion of tlw eompany's rapid dnvclopment. 



Retail discounts affect profits 
Price cut-backs benefit consumers this holiday season, but retailers are hurting 
A<sociated Press 
NEW YOHK -Parking lots arn filled. Shoppers arn fighting for merchandise. Stores are packed. t\nd guess what'? That may not moan mueh when it eomes to retailers' prolitability. 
You wouldn't know that by watching how investors are scooping up retail stocks. Maybe they should be more wary about get­ting caught up in the buy­ing frenzy . 
The official start to the Christmas sales blitz began last weekend, but for more than a month, investors have been stoeking up on mtail sharos. 
Tho Dow Jones index of apparel retailers has gained more than 12 per­cent since late Oetober, while its index that includes discount and department stores is up more than 8 percent. Both have outperformed the 7 percent gain in the Standard & Poor's 500 index over the last month. 
Investors seem to be bet­ting that the eeonomy's healthy growth and rebounding eonsumer con­fidence will trump the drag on retail sales caused by higher gasoline, fuel oil and natural gas prices. What's more important, they've brushed off the potential harm to profit itability. Every ccmt that a es -"significantly below" Target by 3.2 pnreent the margins that eould eome merchant lops off the retai.J those of last year. first two weeks of from the major discounting price means less money There is talk among November, tlwn Targnt at many stores. goes to the bottom line. some Wall Street analysts narrowed that gap to 1.8 
Merchants have eondi­"You never want to sec about what all the dis­pcrecmt in the third week tioned shoppers to expect too much of a good thing," counting eould do to Wai­and then W<LI-Mart's stnep some kind of promotional said Michael P. Niemira, Mart Stores Inc. This year, price euts drove down discounts before they'll ehief economist at the the world's largest retailer priees by 5. 9 perennt open their pocketbooks, so International Council of is pulling out all the stops, below Targnt in wnek four. they are giving them what Shopping Centers. "There hoping to avoid a repeat of "Wal-Mart's mueh more they want. But the risk for is a price that they will last year when it wasn't aggressive stanec got investors is that the price have to pay to get the sales aggressive enough with its attention, but it remains to cuts and giveaways seem that they want ... it is a promotions early in the be seen how much it eost to be at new extrnmes this ealculated risk." holiday season and lost them on margin," Goldman year. Some merehants are sales to competitors. Sachs retail analyst 
While that has driven big already acknowledging Goldman Sachs tracked t\driannc Shapira said this tratTic into stores -it was that their promotions could the prices on 29 key holi­week in a note to elients. hard to miss the media cost them. Gap Inc. said on day items at Wal-Mart and Wai-Mart promotions coverage of the massive Thursday that discounts its discount store rival, eould mean other rnnr­erowds that flooded stores across the company's Gap, Target Corp. -from ehants -from toy stores the morning after Old Navy and Banana Cabbage Patch dolls to to consumer clectronies Thanksgiving -it's impor-Republic Brands drove its Delphi satellite receivers chains -feel pressure to 
. tant to realize what dis­margins -the difference -and found that Wai­mateh or undercut its eounting can do to prof-between priee and expens-Mart charged less than prices. 

Stocks rise as inflation fears ease 
while lower prices could bring an ous three days of losses. 
Associated Press 
end to the Federal Heserve's interest Broader stoek indicators also rose 
rate hikes. sharply. The Standard & Poor's 500 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street had an The news was enough to over­index added 15.19, or 1.22 pnrec111t, auspieious start to Deeember come some mixed retail sales to 1,264.67, and the Nasdaq com­Thursday, with stoeks soaring as reports. It also brought newfound posite indnx surg11d 34.35, or 1.54 investors weleomnd inflation-friend­eonfidence to investors, who piled pnreent, to 2,267.17. ly eeonomic data and hoped the into small-cap, riskier stocks as Bond priecs edged lower, continu­November rally would eontinue enthusiasm over a stop to interest ing thn three past sessions of' s11lling, through year-end. The Dow Jones rate inereases grew. with the yield on the I 0-ynar industrials climbed 106 points. "Investors have their rally eaps on Treasury note rising to 4.52 pnn:ent 
Investors worn heartnned by a for year end, and we're doing it with from 4.49 percent late Thursday. l'inding in the Commerce spneulation," said Jaek t\blin, ehicl' Thn dollar was highm against other Department's personal inc:omc and investment ortieor at llarris Private major eurrnnc:ies, while gold priens spnnding report showing scant infla­13ank. "With a good inflation rnport rose above $500 pnr ourH:P to nnw tionary prnssures. And with ineomns and strong growth. it seems to be I H-ynar highs. rising 0.4 pereent and spending ris­thn pnrl'net elixir for Wall Street." Crud11 oil pricns wen~ volatile, with ing 0.2 perennt, thn market l"olt eon­The Dow rose 106.70, or 0. 99 per­a barrel of' light erudn oil sc1ttling at sumers eould be well positioned for cent, to 10,912.57. The movn higher $58.47, up $1. 15, on tlw Nnw York a strong holiday shopping season, nearly revnrsed thn market's prnvi-Mnreantile Exehangn. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, December 2, 2005 
LalVtnakers face imtnigrant lVoes 
Many solutions, little consensus on illegal entrance into the country 
Associated Press Jeff Lungren, said it could con­allow use of the military for tain a proposal by Rep. Ken border enforcement. Rep. J.D. 
WASHINGTON -From build­Calvert, R-Calif., to expand a Hayworth, R-Ariz., has an ing a fence to keep them out to program for verifying employee extensive bill that would let passing a law to help them stay, records with the Homeland state and local police enforce members of Congress have lots Security Department and the immigration law. of ideas on how to respond to Social Security "I expect it to President Bush's challenge to Administration, grow," Lungren take on the problem of illegal and another by "A wall across the said of Sensenb­immigrants. There's a will to act Rep. David Dreier, border wouldn't be renner's bill. but so far not much consensus. R-Calif., to make Homeland
particularly
The first stab at the problem Social Security Security Secretary could come in the next two cards more tam­effective. " Michael Chertoff weeks, when the House may perproof. said Thursday vote on legislation to strengthen But there are that fencing didn't
Michael Chertoff 
border security. That's the easi­lots of other pro­make sense in
secretary
est of the three legs of immigra­posals to choose deserts.
Homeland Security 
tion reform. The others, enforc­from. The "A wall across 
ing workplace hiring rules and Homeland Security setting up a guest-worker pro­Committee this month approved gram that might incorporate a bill by its chairman, Rep. illegal immigrants, are far more Peter King, R-N.Y., that would divisive. add border patrol agents, make 
In the Senate, Majority Leader use of new monitoring technolo­Bill Frist plans to bring up a gy including unmanned aerial 
border security  vehicles and end  
bill in February, and use that as  "We must boldly  the "catch and release" practice  
a starting point  address the  for non-Mexican  
for broader reform. "We must boldly  challenges ofborder security first. ''  illegals. Dozens of other border  
address  the  security  bills  
challenges  of  Bill Frlst  have been intro­ 
border security first," Frist, R­ Senate Majority Leader  duced, many by conservatives  
Tenn., said this  and border state  

week as Bush toured the Texas­lawmakers fed up with the gov­Mexico border to stress the ernment's failure to stop the need for both tougher border flow of illegal immigrants. controls and a guest-worker Rep. Virgil Goode, R-Va., is program. seeking $2 billion to build a 
The House bill will likely come fence along the border with from Judiciary Committee Mexico. Rep. Tom Tancredo, R­Chairman James Colo., who has made a crack­Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., with the down on illegal immigrants the focus on tighter borders and theme of a longshot presidential some elements of workplace bid, is among several who enforcement. His spokesman, would change existing law to 
the border would be phenomenally expensive," he told reporters, and "it wouldn't be particularly effective." 
Congress already has taken several steps this year to tighten border security, including mak­ing it easier to deny admission to people linked to terrorism and setting national standards for obtaining drivers licenses. A Homeland Security Department spending bill this October pro­vided money to add 1,000 bor­der patrol agents to the current 11,000. 
In the Senate, Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter, R-Pa., has put together a more comprehensive bill that picks and chooses from various sources. It models border and interior enforcement provisions on a bill backed by Republican Sens. John Cornyn of Texas and Jon Kyl of Arizona, employment verification from a bill by Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., and a guest-worker program put forth by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. 
Letterman greets Oprah as guest 
16-yearfeud didn't deter the media queen from 'Late Show' appearance 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Oprah Winfrey and David Letterman buried the hatchet Thursday on "The Late Show" and wondered just how their 16-year feud started in the first place. 
"Could you tell me please what has transpired?" Winfrey asked Letterman during the show. "I have never for a moment had a feud with you." 
It was Winfrey's first guest appearance on "The Late Show" with Letterman, although she twice appeared on his NBC show before the comic moved to CBS in 1993. 
While presenting Letterman with a gift, she alluded to his much-maligned joke as an Academy Awards host in 1995 -the awkward "Oprah, Uma. Uma, Oprah" introduction. 
The gift, wrapped in purple to coincide with the opening of the Winfrey-produced Broadway musical "The Color Purple," was a signed, framed photograph of herself and Uma Thurman. 
"I want you to know, it's really over, whatever you thought was happening," Winfrey said. 
Letterman, seeing the photo, n~sponded: "Are you sure it's ?"
over. 
Letterman has frequently joked about Winfrey through the years, and he devoted plenty of time this week to hyping the Thursday appearance. In 2003, Winfrey told Time magazine she wouldn't go on his show 

AP 
Oprah Winfrey appeared on David Letterman's "Late Night" Thursday after a rumored 16-year long feud. 
because she's been "completely uncomfortable" as the target of his jokes. 
"I can't thank you enough," Letterman said Thursday. "It means a great deal to me and I'm just very happy you're here." 
''Does it really?" asked Winfrey. ''I've been hearing for the past week you talking about it, and I didn't know if you were really serious or you were just doing your 'Dave thing."' 
But Letterman proved his 
intentions were earnest, dis­cussing in-depth Winfrey's efforts to lend support to com­munities in Africa and the good intentions of her syndicated pro­gram, "The Oprah Winfrey Show." 
"You have meant something to the lives of people," Letterman said. "We're just a TV show." 
The approach clearly caught Winfrey off guard, as she repeatedly exclaimed, "I can't believe you're being this seri­ous!" 
Netvvork television increases diversity 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Network tel­evision reflects more of the country's racial and ethnic diversity today than it did six years ago but much more progress could be made, accord­ing to a report released Thursday. 
The diversity survey, issued annually since 1999 by mem­bers of the Multi-Ethnic Media Coalition, gave mostly mediocre marks to the major broadcast networks for diversity in front of and behind the camera. The report assigns grades based on 
figures provided "There has been employing by Fox, ABC, incremental progress." H i s P a n i c 
NBC and CBS. actors and 
"There has executives and been incremen­Alex Nogales needs to devel­tal progress," president op more pro-
said Alex Hispanic Media Coalition grams for 
Nogales, presi­dent of the National Hispanic Media Coalition, part of the multi-eth­nic coalition. "It's encouraging, but the numbers are still not where they should be." 
Individual report cards were issued by the National Latino Media Council and the Asian Pacific American Media Coalition. Mark Reed, chairman of American Indians in Film and Television, gave the networks F grades across the board. 
"The American Indian is invis­ible in prime-time television," he said. 
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which monitors the rep­resentation of blacks on televi­sion, is expected to issue its diversity report card in January. 
Hispanics made noteworthy strides this year, Nogales said, particularly at ABC. He lauded the network for two of its prime­time programs, "The George Lopez Show" and "Freddie," which feature largely Hispanic casts and show some characters speaking Spanish. 
ABC earned the highest over­all marks from the Hispanic and Asian advocacy groups. It's a significant shift for the network, which "was beyond an F-six years ago," said Karen Narasaki, chairman of the A<>ian Pacific American Media Coalition. 
ABC shows "Lost" and "Grey's Anatomy" were celebrated for featuring Asian-American actors, writers, producers and directors. Two Asian-American actors earned Emmy nomina­tions this year for their roles on ABC shows, Narasaki noted. 
Fox, cited as a champion of TV diversity three years ago, lost favor this year with Asian and Hispanic groups. According to the report cards, the network comes up short in 
Asian per­
formers. 
"This is the second year in a row they've dropped," Narasaki said. "How is that that 'House' can be set in a hospital and there are no regular Asian­American roles?" 
CBS lacks significant opportu­nities for Asian-American actors and writers, Narasaki said. 
"After five years, we haven't seen much progress," she said. 
The network fared better with the Hispanic graders, who note CBS employs a large number of Hispanic actors and directors. 
NBC has "huge numbers" of Hispanic actors and more than 20 Hispanic directors working on its programs, Nogales said. Asian writers maintain a notable presence at the network, but acting and producing roles declined significantly over the past year, Narasaki said. 
Of 370 NBC episodes evaluat­ed, only one was produced by an Asian-American, she said. 
The Multi-Ethnic Media Coalition began issuing its diver­sity report cards in 1999, when a nearly all-white schedule of new network series provoked an outcry from civil rights groups, leading to agreements by broad­casters to improve their per­formance. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS SENIOR RECITALS 
ALL RECITALS ARE FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2005 CHU·EN LIN· PIANO 3:30PM, ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2005 ANDRIJ M. HLABSE ·JAZZ SAXOPHONE 
7:00 PM, CAREY AUDITORIUM HESBURGH LIBRARY 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2005 JESSICA MACIEJEWSKI ·CLARINET 7:00PM, CAREY AUDITORIUM HESBURGH LIBRARY 
Friday, December 2, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 

Richn1ond president calls students 'n1ush' 
Associated Press 
HICIIMOND, Va. -Insulting alumni and donors probably isn't the best way to show that you arc trying to improve your university's national profile, as the president of the University of Hichmond has found. 
During a "state of the uni­versity" speech in October at the private liberal arts college, William E. Cooper discussed the school's ell'orts to become more academically competi­tive by attracting more talent­ed students. 
"The entering quality of our student body needs to be much higher if we are going to transform bright minds into great aehicvers instead of transforming mush into mush, and I mean it," he said. 
lie later apologized for his remarks and said they were misinterpreted. 
Some alumni remain sup­portive of Coopnr's vision, but he has come under lire from many othnrs, who arn calling for him to step down and are threatnning to withhold eontri­butions until hn is gonn. At a rw:nnt home basketball game, some Hichmond fans wore buttons proclaiming, "Mushlwads Unite." 
"It's time to send Cooper to the 'mush' pit and get our lwloved University back on a positive track," Keith Stojka, a I1J1J6 graduate, wrote on an online petition calling for new leadnrship. "By the way, not a r1~d cent from me until Cooper is sent packing." 
Tlw number of signatures approadwd 2,000 Thursday, a day beforo he was to meet with the exeeutive eommittee of the university's Board of Trusl!ws. The full board will tlwn take up his case, univer­sity spokesman Handy Fitzgerald said. 
Cooper denied a request for an interview. 
University spokesman Dan Kalamanson said that no major donors have suspended their pledges over the eontro­versy, but "dearly the situa­tion is something the Board of Trustees, the university does take seriously." 
lie said that students, facul­ty members and alumni should "look at the big picture, the positive things that Dr. Cooper has achieved, and weigh them against the remarks, the changes here that some people may not be supportive of." 
Before coming to Richmond, Cooper was Georgetown University's executive vice president and dean of faculty at Tulane University. 
He started at Richmond in 1998 with a goal of boosting the school's national profile, and to that end Richmond has undertaken a $200 million fund-raising campaign. Also, the school started covering all of students' demonstrated financial need and extending benefits to employees' same­sex partners. 
Cooper angered some stu­dents when the university raised tuition 31 percent this fall to nearly $35,000, among the nation's highest, despite a $1.1 billion endowment. 
University officials have said the increase will bring the 3,000-student university's price in line with that of its competitors and will help pay for scholarships, hire more faculty, update technology and construct and renovate build­ings on the secluded, wooded campus on the edge of Virginia's capital city. 
The sharp price increase has been criticized by people who say that it puts the school out of reach of students from middle-and working-class families. 
Emily Griffey, a 2001 gradu­ate, opposed the tuition increase and disagrees with attempts to make Richmond a Southern version of Brown or Princeton. 
"I don't think students accepted the vision that that was what we needed to become," Griffey said. "Our professors were great. I learned a lot while I was there. My friends all do amaz­ing things." 
First face transplant performed 
Associated Press 
PAHIS -An ethics debate broke out over the world's first partial face transplant Thursday with one surgeon challenging the decision to operate, while others suggested a bit of jealousy might be at play. 
At the same time, several doc­tors raised concerns about the psychological health of the French woman who received a transplanted nose, lips and chin on Sunday. She had been bru­tally mauled by a dog in May, and her identity remains unknown. 
Dr. Laurent Lantieri, an advis­er to the French medical ethics panel, said the surgeons who operated violated the panel's advice because they failed to try reconstructive surgery first. He said a transplant donor was immediately sought without try­ing to repair the woman's face with more conventional sur­gery. 
Lantieri, who had seen a pic­ture of the woman, said, "She had a complete amputation of both lips. The tip of the nose was amputated." Her new donated facial parts came from a brain-dead woman whose family gave consent. 
The panel had previously objected to full face transplants but said partial ones could be considered under strict circum­stances, which included first trying normal surgery. 
"The ethics committee said this kind of transplant should never be considered as an emergency procedure," Lantieri said. 
However, surgeon Denys Pellerin, of the National Consultative Ethics Committee advised by Lantieri said, "as long as the transplant is not total, it is not unethical." 
And Dr. Jean-Pierre Chavoin, secretary general of the French society of plastic surgery, noted that Lantieri had planned to do a face transplant himself and had been beaten. 
Carine Camby, director gener­al of the agency under the French Health Ministry that coordinates organ procure­ment, said normal reconstruc­tive surgery. could not have been used in this case. 
"It is precisely because there now in Dubernard's ward in a was no way to restore the func­Lyon hospital in southern tions of this patient by normal France, was also to have a sec­plastic surgery that we attempt­ond experimental treatment ­ed this transplant," Camby said. an infusion of the donor's bone "She 'could no longer eat nor­marrow -to try to prevent mally, she had great difficulty rejection of the new tissue. speaking and there is no possi­"Maybe Jean-Michel bility with plastic surgery today Dubernard is revolutionizing to repair the muscles around the concept of transplantation," the mouth which allow people Lantieri said, but added that to articulate when they speak the patient now was being sub­andpot spit out food when they jected to two untested treat­eat. ments. 
Camby also said the patient Lantieri, who developed his "received many psychiatric own plans to attempt a partial examinations. The psychiatrists face transplant, said members 
decided that  of Dubernard's  
she  under­ team contacted  
stood the surgery and that she accepted all  "It is precisely because there was no way to restore the functions ofthis patient  him last spring, seeking details of his protocol. lie said that  
of the conse­ by normal plastic surgery  a  surgeon  in  
quences, including the risk of rejec­ that we attempted this transplant.''  Lille where the transplant donor lived,  
tion and of  had reviewed  
failure, the risk of  Carine Camby agency director general  the woman's rm:ord and told  

immune sup­pression treatments and the need to take them for life." 
But Chavoin, who took part in preparatory meetings about the patient's case over the last sev­eral months, questioned her psychological health. 
The patient "seems to have quite a depressive profile," he said. 
The operation was done at a hospital in Amiens, in northern France, by ground-breaking transplant surgeon Dr. Jean­Michel Dubernard and Dr. Bernard Devauchellc. Dubernard led teams that per­formed a hand transplant in 1998 and the world's first dou­ble forearm transplant in January 2000. 
The hand transplant recipient later had it amputated. Doctors said the man failed to take the required drugs and his body rejected the limb. 
Lantieri said he was fearful that this operation could turn out like that first hand trans­plant if the patient is psycholog­ically unstable. 
Dubernard did not return a phone call seeking comment Thursday. A news conference is set for Friday. 
The face transplant patient, him he was 
concerned about the circumstances of her injury. It involved one or two dogs, Lantieri said. 
In the United States, surgeons and psychologists at two med­ical centers that hope to offer face transplants the Cleveland Clinic and tho University of Louisville ­declined to comment Thursday on the French ease. 
In an interview at the Cleveland Clinic in July, sur­geon Dr. Maria Siom io now stressod tho several yoars sho had spent developing proce­duros and how carefully her team now is working to snleet potential candidatos for tho operation. 
"I hope nobody will be frivo­lous or do things just for fame. We are almost over-cautious," she said at the time. 
Another surgeon familiar with the French case sounded more optimistic: despite the woman's horrific injuries, which he said were caused by her own dog. 
"She still has her own eyes, which are a lot of a person's expression ... we'd expect she'd turn out to be a ploasant-look­ing girl," Dr. Earl Owen told the Sydney Morning llerald in Australia. 

Narcotic qat captivates Ye111inis 
Associated Press 
SAN'A, Yemen -The writer winked conspiratorially, shifted the golf ball-sized bulge in his left cheek and tapped his temple gently. 
"Qat is good for the mind. I can't stop writing once I start. But the next morning I read what I wrote and tear it up straight away," chuckled 35-year-old Hatem Bamohriz, nibbling yet another leaf of the mild narcotic. 
To many government and aid officials, qat has ceased to be funny: Yemen's government is making another push to cut the use of the rubbery green leaf with amphetamine-like qualities that is blamed for many of this country:s ills, from widesproad poverty to growing health prob­lems. 
But there is little progress. Up to 90 percent of Yemeni men arc now believed to chew qat daily, and growing numbers of women and children are also chewing, the World Bank says. 
"Qat is a disease, and I hope for the day that they'll take it away," said Samra Shaibani, spokeswoman for the World Bank, a leading anti-qat cam­paigner. "But if they do, there would be a revolution because the people have little else and rely on it so much." 
Qat is a centuries-old social custom that stimulates mental activity, long conversations and tall tales in this tribal-dominated nation at the southern tip of the Arabian Peninsula. Qat chewing is ubiquitous -as common in Yemen as wearing a curved dag­ger on the belt. 
Historical records show qat in regular use in the 15th century when Sufi Muslims -a deeply mystical sect -ehewed the qat leaves during prayer and m(~dita­tion. As time passed, ordinary Yemenis increasingly took up tho praetiee at special eelebrations. 
But now, many experts have come to believe it's at the root of Yemen's 40 pereont unemploy­ment rate, its status as tho poor­est country in the Middlo East and its growing national health problems. 
Critics blame qat for every­thing from the country's low eco­nomic productivity to excessive water use to irrigate the qat crop. Some blame it for eating disorders and high cholesterol rates. 
"Qat is the No. 1 socioeconomic: problem of the country," said Khaled al-Shaq, a communiea­tion olliccr for the United Nations Development Project in Yemen. "It manifests all the frustrations of Yemen." 
Under intense international pressure to improve its ailing eeonomy, Yemen's government released a Poverty Heduction Stratef,ry Papnr ree~mtly that tar­geted qat, partieularly as a waste of prndous water. 
In the San'a region ;donn, nflarly throe times as rnueh water goes to qat production as is consunwd by thn population. 
Government leadnrs from President Ali Abdullah Saleh on down also havn announeod tlwy havn given up tlw habit, hoping othors will follow tlwir example. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, December 2, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOIU Heather Van Hoegarden 
SroRTs EDITOIU Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROlLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
Senate resolution sound but small 
So it's come to this. 
Concerned students and student government leaders once openly challenged the Common Council of the City of South Bend, contesting the amendment to the Public Nuisance Ordinance it passed in July was untimely and unfair to students. 
Student body president Dave Baron fought during the sum­mer against the Council's decision to pass an ordinance geared specifically at students residing off-campus, especially during a time when few students remained in South Bend to represent themselves. 
But those efforts proved ineffective, as the ordi­
O Jhe
nance was passed then and continues to be 
on the condition that they prove themselves good neighbors, and students must fulfill their part of the bargain by taking first notices to abate seriously. 
As for Notre Dame, the University contributes economically to the city of South Bend, employs some of its residents and has offered on-campus housing to the evicted students -but it is obvious at this point that it has no intention of stepping between its students and the city's Common Council. 
And really, why would it? What would Notre Dame fight the city for-the right for its students to party off-campus? It's an unfortunate situation, one that has 
amassed and compiled into a distasteful topic
userver 
enforced now, with six Notre Dame students due to miscommunication, predetermined atti­undergoing eviction proceedings and several oth­tudes on both sides and, recently, the enforce­
Editorial
ers receiving notices to abate. Recognizing that it ment of the ordinance. 
has little control over the ordinance's existence, the Student Senate has rightly resorted to tackling the aspect of the ordinance that most negatively affects students -its encouragement that landlords initiate eviction proceedings after one offense. 
The recent evictions following first offenses by off-campus students did not justly award a time period for the residents to "abate" -or cease their violations or "nuisance" -before landlords took action to save themselves. Residents deserve that second chance, and the city's desire to please landlords is not sufficient rationale to warrant overly strict enforcement regard­ing ofT-campus student residents. 
But these students also have to realize they are only a minori­ty of South Bend's population, and by moving into city housing they are proclaiming themselves accountable for upholding the laws in that jurisdiction. The Senate is standing up for students 
The resolution passed by the Senate Wednesday is not overly demanding or laden with complaints. It acknowledges South Bend residents' rights and state law in Indiana while respectfully opposing the aspect of the ordinance that is most damaging to long-term relations between Notre Dame students and the South Bend community. Senate has done well with the options left to it, recommending to the Common Council that it at least adhere to reasonable enforce­ment of its newly imposed ordinance, which is a fair and mature way of approaching the matter. 
But it's a shame that while the Senate has adopted the correct attitude in its latest approach to the Common Council, that approach is all it really has left. Its narrow argument, while jus­tified and well-executed, also sadly illustrates what little power the community has granted at this point to the Senate and the students it represents. 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.] @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the $tt.ldents of the University of Noue Dame du l,.a(:.JU14 Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induditig adverti,seinents, is not governed by policies ofme admlnisuaticn .tjf either institution. The Observer reserves ~ tight tc refuse 
advertisements based on content. ··· 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily cltose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free eKpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and mUSt include contact infortnation. 
~tions regarding Obm·verplllide$ should be directed to F.ditm-in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMA'IlON 
Th< Ob.e~V<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publioh<d MCndoy through Prid.y"""'" duriog tltllm .and vacatiJ)n periods. A suhliaiption to The Obsetverk!l' $1-0G for Qnt IU:ademk yeun $55 fur one .semester. 
The Obic:m:r is published .at: POSTMASTER 
024 So.,h Dhung Hall Send ad~ CO£reaiom to: 
Noue Damo,IN 46556-0779 The~ 
Periodial pomge paid ar Nom: Dame: P.O.Im779 
.,.! ..Jdi<icnal moiliog of!kes. 024 Soudt Dining Hall 
Notte Dame,JN 46556-0779 
The: 0~ is~ member ofthe Msodatcd Prcu. Ali.ttp.mdtu!tlon tights ate 
'"""""'· 
TooAv's STAFF 


Everything I need to know I learned in kindergarten 
The other day, while reading my morn­ing paper, I became saddened by what I saw. Stan Berenstain had passed away last Saturday at the age of 82. No, Mr. Berenstain was not a close family friend 
or relative of mine, but  
I would bet that his  
name rings a bell with  
many of you. Stan  
Berenstain and his  
wife, Jan, were co­ 
authors of the popular  
children's series The  
Berenstain Bears.  
Perhaps not all of  
you had the same Molly  
experience growing up Acker  
as I had, but as a child  
I recall that not a night  Nobody Likes a  
went by when I did not  Dumb Blonde  
get my bedtime story.  
Most of these nights I  

chose for my mom or dad to read a Berenstain Bears book. Though I was not a cub, nor did my family live in a split­level tree "down a sunny dirt road deep in Bear Country," I could really relate to the Berenstain's. Just like the Berenstain Bears, my family had a father, mother and older brother. Also just like Papa, Mama, Brother and Sister, we were not perfect and so sometimes we had to learn our lessons too. 
Though I loved to read their tales time and time again, looking back I can see why my parents were always more than happy to oblige with my book requests. Each Berenstain Bears book was an entertaining story, but more importantly, each one had a good lesson for both young and old alike. At the end of each book you could always expect to find Papa Bear with the moral of the story and life for the Berenstain's went on happily ever after. 
While these books about a happy little family of bears do not reflect all aspects contemporary society (the books do not contain families with only a mama bear, step-brother and step-sister bears, or families with two papa bears), they still have good messages for children. I remember reading books by the Berenstain's that emphasized the impor­tance of sharing, doing your chores, not judging someone before you get to know them, cleaning your room, hard work, going to bed on time, and having good manners. In addition, the books eased some of my concerns about traumatic childhood events such as visits to the doc­tor and dentist, as well as a trip to the mall to see Santa Bear. 
By now we should all be practicing ideals on our own without having to look to illustrated bears for an example. Nevertheless, we cannot undermine the fact that these books were a great way to teach us how to become the caring, com­passionate, responsible and hardworking young adults we are today. As children we are easily influenced by the things we hear and see. Today many people argue that with all the violence on television and in video games, children are becoming overexposed to adult themes and growing up too fast. These people feel that society would be better off ifit reverted back to some of its more traditional values. They stress that, just as Papa and Mama Berenstain were always there to teach Brother and Sister a lesson, parents should take an active role in their chil­dren's lives. 
The death of a man who could instill these essential values in children is truly a great loss. Through the Berenstain Bears, Stan and Jan Berenstain were able to solve everyday family situations and teach children basic "do's" and "don'ts." These lessons transcend decades and genera­tions, which helps explain why the Berenstain Bears remain a popular series for children throughout the world after 42 years. Today you can find the Berenstain Bears on television, on stage at your local theaters and you can even email Papa, Mama, Brother and Sister Berenstain via the official Berenstain Bears website. 
Upon his death, many people have expressed their sympathies to the Berenstain family and have shared their gratitude for the books that had influ­enced so many of us growing up. While many thanked Berenstain for wonderful childhood memories and the joy they got from reading his books, others reflected on what they had learned from his books. One Arizona woman wrote, "The Berenstain Bears books taught manners, morals and about family. Something the world could use a little more of. Wouldn't it be great ifwe all thought like Stan & Jan?" 
How very true that is. The world would be a much better place ifwe could all take the most basic lessons we learned as children to heart as adults. 
Molly Acker is a senior communication studies and humanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's. She can be con­tacted at acke6758@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
News ':;111~,·sp~rts 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
Katie Perry ·Kate Gales Karen Langley Kevin Brennan 
Are you going to Notre Dame's
Jenny Hames Jay Fitzpatrick 
bowl game? 
"When you get into a tight place and it
Viewpoint Scene 
a. Yes, if it's in Miami 
seems that you can't go on, hold on -for
Sarah Falvey Chris McGrady 
b. Yes, if it's aBCS game 
that's just the place and the time that the
Graphics Ram a c. Yes, ifit's in Arizona 
tide will turn." 
d. Yes
Kelly MacDonald Gottumukkala 
e. No 
Harriet Beecher Stowe abolitionist 
*Poll appears courtesy of 
www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based 
on 658 responses. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, December 2, 2005 page II 
The church vs. state question 
Tho Founding Fathnrs did not invent religious tolerance-it 
had already formnd out of the circumstancflS that created the 
original eolonies-however their unique perspective gave 
them tho presence of mind to enshrine it in the Constitution, in 
tlw form of the separation of church and state, and so to pro­
tnet it from less-gentle hands that might gov­
nrn in thn future. Tlwy were not unreligious 
nwn, ynt they unders"tood that a certain dis­
tancn is required between politics and reli­
gion, for the protection of both. 
Wn still dwell in the nation of their legacy, and tlw consequences of embracing pluralism as a public virtue are widespread. There are few societies, if any, that are simultaneously as secular and as religious as the United Stattls, or where questions of the relationship hntween church and stat11 arn taken up more finretdy by morn peopln. This is a sign of tho nation's health. 
llownvnr. for pnopln of faith-nspeeially those who prnctiee religions like Christianity and Islam. which do not embrace the equality of otlwr lwlids-the nature of tlw country raises a difficult ques­tion. What dons it mnan to be a n1ligious pnrson in such a toler­ant and pluralistic soeinty and how can one embrace all of Llwsn vahws while cornpmmising none? 
I like to think of this as the Notre Dame question. Because of t.hn unusual location of the University betwenn spiritual and secular polns, this qunstion underlins many of the finrcest dPI>atns that or.r.ur hnrn. Exam pins include tlw treatment of gay stud11nts and staff, calls for cnnsorship by those who find per­formances likn "The Vagina Monologues" "inconsistent" with Catholic values and the nver growing pressure from the Vatican to control which theologians are allowed to tea<~h and what Llwy may say. 
llowevnr, Notrn Dame is a very insulated microcosm that is only beginning to reflect a wider trend sweeping Christian ehurdws and the nation. The coupling between religion and politics has grown stronger in the past decade, to the ultimate detriment of each. This union has already produced some very strange bedfellows, like the Hepublican Party's unstable mix­turn of traditional small-government conservatives and reli­gious tlwocons who will spend any amount of money in pursuit of thnir social agendas. 
This dose relationship is dangerous, because it tempts reli-. gious leaders to use their authority to directly impact govern­mont in dubious ways, for example declaring that voting for a particular candidate is immoral, or ostracizing political leaders wlwn thnir public views do not match those of the religion. It takes more than the restraint of the State to make the Anwrican system work; it also requires a degree restraint on t.hn part of religions not to undermine it. Under this pressul'e the very idea of separation of church and state and the toler­ance and pluralism that arn built on it begin to crumble. 
Here is a realistic example. There are, at present, four Catholics on thn UnitPd States Supreme Court, and if Samuel /\lito is 1~onfirnwd (as he is likely to be) then there will be five. llowevnr, just because a justice is Catholic it does not follow that his lngal views are in lockstep with his private moral views or that either of these are in lockstep with the views of the Catholic Church. Many people in government see no inconsis­tency in having differing public and private moral opinions, and indnnd for justices of the Supreme Court, called to unbiased judgment on the merits of the law, such a separation is almost a fiH]Uirnment. 
Heeently United States bishops have threatened to withhold communion from politicians who vote in ways that are not con­sistent with the views of the Church (the centerpiece of this was .John Kerry and abortion, though there is no reason that the sarnn pressures could not be exerted by the bishops for any other issue). If this threat were extended to the justices on the basis of how they rule then five-including Chief Justice Hoberts-would be placed under duress, where they would havn to choose between their duty to the nation and the risk of outright public rejection by their churches. 
If this situation were to actually occur, then the most likely outcome would be as many as five of the nine justices with­drawing themselves from the case that brought the threat, if a quorum (six justices) were lacking, then the Court itself would hn forced to withdraw from the case altogether. Following such an event thn Court would bn, at worst, powerfully disinclined to lwar eases that might place it in such a dangerous position again or at best, tho Catholic justices who saw an irresolvable obstade to their ability to do their duty would feel compelled to rnsign. 
In short, an unjust and incautious attempt to control the Court through roligious means would, in the end, bring about rnsulls dnsired by neither the Court nor the Church, and would ultimatnly 1:a~sn incaleulable harm to both and to the nation. 
l.ance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of Notre /Jarne. 1/e can be r·on tacted at commen l s@tidematerblues. com "the 11ieu•s f'Xpressed in this column are those of the author and not necr•ssarily those of "the Obsen•er. 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater 
Blues 
The art of dying 
It is sometimes said that the English care more about animals than people. The evidence suggests however that it's only furry animals we care about more than people. 
Sir Paul McCartney recently announced that he would never perform in China because he had learnt about the barbaric cruelty of the Chinese fur trade, which includes traflkking in fur from cats and dogs. Now I consider myself as much of a cat-lover as a man can be without compromising his rugged machismo, but China is a communist state in which both female infanticide and child labor are widespread and in whieh citizens lack many of the most basic politi­cal freedoms. The fact that it took a PET/\ doeumentary about the terrible things they do to cats and dogs over them to spark McCartney's outrage suggests a rather blas!1 attitude to all the terrible things done to the Chinese people. The former Beatie is now in his 60s and well past the point at which idealism unconstrained by anything resembling a sense of perspective is endearing. 
When .John Lennon was shot in 1980 his early death ensured that his myth would be preserved intact. lam not old enough to remember Lennon's assassination, but I vividly recall Kurt Cobain's suicide in 1994, whieh sent shockwaves nf sorrow through my contemporaries. Many of them called it a tragedy. Even at the tin1e it struck me that there was something bogus and self-deceived about their mourning. Not that the sorrow wasn't genuine, but on some level Cobain's fans had always needed more from him than his music; they needed him to die. 
When your heart is broken, it feels as if your whole self splits in two. Part ofyoujust wants the pain to go away, but another part feels that to ever recover from it would amount to a kind of betrayal by your future self. Angst-ridden teenagers often experience a similar phenome­non, and the fear that their sense of alienation and despair may indeed be "just a phase" as their (impossibly-old) parents keep telling them, they are driven to identify with figures like Cobain for whom the same feelings seemed to remain raw and strong into adulthood. The sad truth is that if your emotional appeal rests on your status as the embodiment of teenage angst then sooner or later you have to kill yourself just to prove that you really mean it. Eventually even staying alive would be selling out. 
Trent Heznor of Nine Inch Nails has been mak­ing dark, angst-ridden music for over 15 years. Ilis debut album was released in the same year as Nirvana's Bleach and he's still producing albums full or rage and despair, set against the kind of sounds that suggest that he's playing the guitar 

Peter 
Wicks 
Englishman 
Abroad 
with a dentist's drill instnad of a pleetrum. But 
these days it feels fake; sure, Heznor may really 
be feeling angry and alienated, but by now those 
feelings are just part of his job description. 
An artist whose authenticity has never bmm in doubt is Johnny Cash. The son of a eotton farmer, in 1955 Cash auditioned fi>r Sun Hoeords as part of a gospel act, but was ofl'ernd a contract singing country music in which he was told he had a future. Cash took the advice and the contraet, and in the fall of 1969 he ouL'iold the Beatles. 
The recent film Walk the Line deals with tho early part of Cash's lifb, his struggle with alcohol and painkillers, and his legendary romance and marriage to June Carter, while lopping the story to fit the Procrustean convnntions of the biopie genre. But personally, it's the last part of Cash's life that interest.'> me most. 
In 2002 Johnny Cash released thn fi>urth and final volume of the American Heeordings series that he began almost a deeade before with llw producer Hick Hubin. The album eontainnd an extraordinary cover of Trent Heznor's "Hurt." The song was inevitably ovnrplayed, and film and loin­vision producers quickly adopted it as tho nnw track to use whenever they needed to create a moment of guaranteed pathos but eouldn 't trust their plot and actors to get them on their own (bcfim~ "llurt" came along Jell" Buckley's version of Leonitrd Cohen's "Hallelujah" was the most­overusnd fi1r this purpose). 
The vocals for "IIurt" worn meordml dry (with­out digital efli1cl'i or augnwntation), which is almost unheard of in modern music produetion. A'i a msult the weaknesses of C<L'ih 's voic1~ an~ starkly displayed, as he intended. What would bn the point of pretending he eould still sing likn he did when he played San Quentin'! No, the song is meant to show without disguise or artifice what an old, diabetic man sounds like. On thn video, in which his ravaged, crumpling face is interspersed with footage from his life and shot.<;, the lyrics (written by Heznor when he was barnly in his twenties) am made to sound like something from Ecdesiastes. 
You have probably seen the video, which won countless awards. But it's less likely that you have heard the final album, The Man Comes ;\round. I suggest you do, not for the reeording of "llurt," but for the very last track, Cash's rendition of "We'll Meet Again." That's not a gospel song of course, but when it's sung joyfully and even a little playfully by a dying man with a cracked voice, it becomes one. 
Peter 'Wlcks is a graduate studenl in the philos­ophy department who was dressing like Johnny Cash bfifore he even heard ofhim. lie would like to express his thanks to Douglas Ayling, his research assistant. Peter can be mntacted at pwicks@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are thosl' of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserller. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
"ALL'S FAIR INtote-JOURNALISM AND WAR 11-X><XXX 

_...--------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Friday, December 2, 2005 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 

'Capote' not just a brilliant biography 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 

Biographical films tend to start at the beginning of a life and end with death. "Capote" takes a somewhat different approach -it starts with events that inspired a novel and ends with the events that complete it. 
"Capote" chronicles the relationships and events that go into shaping one of the author's novels rather than focusing on his life. The film follows the development of "In Cold Blood," which is both Capote's masterpiece and his final book. 
The f1lm begins with the violent and shocking murder of the Clutter family in rural Kansas. This event attracts the attention of Capote, Capote cism. who becomes fasci­Catherine nated with the mur­Keener, in a drastic ders and decides to turn from her last write about them. role in "The 40­

When: Friday, Dec. 2 at 7 and 10 p.m. 
He is initially curi­Year Old Virgin,"
and Saturday, Dec. 3 at 7 and 10 p.m. 
ous and inquisitive plays Lee with a 
Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC
about the murders, mix of warmth, 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Ediror 

Adam West move over, there's a new Batman in town. 
In the recent DVD release "Batman Begins," Christian Bale assumes the identity of the eaped crusader to spec­tacular effect. Set as an introduction of sorts to the Batman mythology, "Begins" is the perfect movie for the uninitiated and the avid comic fan alike. 
The first thing that "Begins" does is to set itself apart from the other Batman films, mainly the ones helmed by Tim Burton. It follows a more faith­ful translation of the comic, depicting the murder of Bruce's parents in a way that followed the Dark Knight comics. It also follows the comic more faithfully in other ways as well, particularly in Batman's refusal to kill. 
For those who don't know Batman from Man-Bat, Batman is really the fic­tional millionaire Bruce Wayne. He lived in Gotham City with his loving parents, and his life was perfect up until a fateful night following a stage performance. It was then that his par­ents were killed before his eyes in a 
formance. His portrayal of Capote cap­
tures the simultaneouslycharming and 
disturbing nature of the character. 
While the movie chronicles the develop­
ment of "In Cold Blood" and the events 
that inspired it, two relationships in 
Capote's life make up the true heart of the 
film. 

The friendship between Capote and his childhood friend and fellow author, Harper Lee, is central to understanding the action in the film and Capote himself. · She behaves as both a friend and mother figure in his life, and coddles the difficult author through the trials he faces while writing "In Cold Blood." While she is patient and supportive of the frequently childish and quixotic author, Lee also pro­vides some of his most scathing criti­
but the longer he works with those involved, specifically the murderers, the more complicated his feelings and motiva­tions become. 
Philip Seymour Hoffman's portrayal of the likable but complicated author is one of the highlights of the film. His high, wavering lisp initially makes the author seem almost comical, but it swiftly becomes part of the emotional impact of the lilm through Hoffman's powerful per-
compassion and 
steely resolve. Her performance, while not as flashy or noticeable as Philip Seymour Hoffman's portrayal of Capote himself. anchors the film and gives it emotional stability. 
The other major relationship in the film emerges between Capote and one of the murderers. Perry Smith (Clifton Collins, Jr.). Capote becomes deeply and emotion­ally involved with the perpetrator in an attempt to get as close to the motivation 
DVD REVIEW 

'Batman Begins' DVD offers more than expected 
bumbled robbery. This in turn set Bruce on his path to becoming Batman, the bane of criminals everywhere. 
The movie dedicates much of its run­ning time to depicting Bruce's transfor­mation into Batman.· The Batman cos­tume isn't even seen until around an hour into it. 
Instead, the time is spent on develop­ing first how B.ruce gained his hatred for criminals, and then how he became trained to combat them. 
Many characters went into influenc­ing Bruce's transformation, including his father Thomas Wayne (Linus Roache), his butler Alfred (Michael Caine), among others. However, the majority of his transformation occurs due to two characters. The. first is Rachel Dawes (Katie Holmes). Holmes feels unconvincing in her role as Rachel, and while she does a decent job, it feels a little lacking. 
The second influence on Bruce's life was Henri Ducard, played fantastically by Liam Neeson. The role of mentor is one Neeson is familiar with, having taken a similar role in "Star Wars: Episode 1." Neeson does a great job of portraying a person with a background similar to Bruce's, one whose loved ones were taken away by violence. 
The secondary charac­ters were all solid, and played by respectable actors. Gary Oldman played Jim Gordon, a sta­ple of the Batman comic. Since this is "Batman Begins," Gordon is not the highly ranked police official he is in the stan­dard comic. Instead, the movie depicts Gordon as a lowly grunt, the single behind the murder, but he grows terrified with how close he comes to evil. 
The· two share similar childhoods, caus­ing Capote to feel that he isn't far removed from these actions. 
"It's as if Perry and I grew up in the same house. And one day he went out the back door and I went out the front," Capote said. 
One major question the film puts forth is whether Capote actually empathized with the criminals or if he was simply using them to further his literary career. "In Cold Blood" remains unfinished for much of the film because Smith and his accom­plice, Richard Hickock, get several stays of executions, which drives Capote close to a nervous breakdown. 
After the murderers are executed, 
Capote sobs to Harper Lee that he did all he could for them, to which she replies, 'The fact is, you didn't want them to live." Her cutting remark reveals that only when the criminals died could Capote actually finish his book, and his desire to be loved by the literati may have quashed any of his feelings of empathy. 
Overall, "Capote" is an intriguing por­trait of a flawed and fascinating author and the trials and successes that go into writing a novel. A great cast and even direction make it an interesting look into the events and people that ultimately shaped a great and important American novel and its writer. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu ., 
-


good cop in a town of corrupt or ineffi­
cient police. 

Cillian Murphy plays the criminally 
under-used Dr. Jonathan Crane. 
Delegated to a supporting role within the 
movie, this Batman villain steals the 
scene every time he makes an appear­
ance, and hopefully makes a return in 
the sequel. 

There are two DVDs on the market ­a sparse standard edition and the special edition. For the money, the special edi­tion is the superior choice. It comes with ·a second disk that contains many special features, commentaries, and behind-the­scene technical showcases. It also comes with a special comic book that has snip­
pets of the influential Batman comics. However, there were some legal issues with the eomic, forcing the special edi­tion to be discontinued. 
There. are still some special editions left to be found though, making it a decent holiday purchase. · 
"Batman Begins" is a great movie for everyone. It's a super-hero movie done correctly, with a compelling lead and storyline. But if you decide to pick it up, pick up the standard edition at your own risk. There may not be enough "Batman" to fill your craving. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 


TV SHOW REVIEW  
By MOLLY GRIFFIN  lar soldir.rs mentioned by name in Caesar's "De Bello Gallico." They  to the upper elass and were practiced by many Homan eitizens, plebian and  "Honw" was around $100 million dol­lars, and filming involvPd building  
As.i,r.mr Scene Fdi10r  bneome central to the major ev11nts  patrician.  rnplicas of' snctions of tho rity in the  
that shape the ultimate politieal out­ The first season depicts Caesar's rise  Italian eountrysido. There was a ernw  
Andnnt history may not. snnm liko a  como in the war betweon Caesar and  to dictatorship following the end of tho  of around 350 inlornalional workors  
topic nwanl for a tnlevision serios, par­ticularly on a network like IIBO.  Pompey, and their involvement pro­vides insight into a side of Homan his­ Gallic wars and eontinues until his assassination. In tho background of  and 50 Italian interns. "Homo" dnbuted on Aug. 2H to high  - 
Fortunatnly  for  vinwnrs,  "Homn"  tory that is often not seen in most tele­ these events, viewers also see  the  ratings and critical praise. Tlw second  
nmnrges as a  great show that dnftly  vision presentations  - the lives of  young Octavian (Max Pirkis). the future  season will not bn out until 2007, dun  
balaru:es entertainment with history to  nvnryday people.  emperor Augustus Caesar, being raised  to high production costs and  a lnngthy  
!Tnatn a dynamic drama series.  By showing the soldiers' families,  by his seheming mother, Atia of' the  filming process. The  new  snason  is  
"Homn" takns place in the healed  friends and  com- Julii (Polly Walker).  rurnornd to focus on the pownr struggle  
political climate of tho year 52 B.C.,  panions, viewers  Rome  Other important char­ that emerges bntwnen Oetavian and  
wlwn tlw old values and institutions  g11t to see the real  acters, both to history  Mark Antony.  
that tlw rulturn  was founded  on  are  grittiness of daily  and  to  the  series,  Overall, "Home" shows both llw  
beginning to erumble. .Julius Caesar  life  in  ancient  include Mark Antony  glamour and grit of lif'P in Aneient  
(Ciaran llinds), following a  victory in  Home, whieh is far  (James  Puref'oy).  llomo by balaneing its portrayal of'  
(;aul.  n~turns  to  the eity with  a  new  different from the  Network: HBO  Cicero  (David  notable historieal ligures with tho lives  
political agenda, and his old fri1md, l'omp11y Magnus (Kenneth Cranham), must dotnrrnine where the balance of  lives and machina­tions of the upper classes that are  Production by: HBO and BBC Starring: Kevin McKidd, Ray Stevenson and Ciaran Hinds  Bamber), Cato (Karl Johnson) and Brutus (Tobias Menzies).  of everyday citizens. It is at times extremely violent and it skips around in history for the sake of' entnrtain­ 
power now lies.  usually portrayed  The series is a joint  ment, but it is a wholly addictive show  
lntertwinnd in the larger political  alone. This doesn't  venture between IIBO  that will have,you scrambling for histo­ 
rumblings are  two  Homan soldiers,  mean  that "Home" shies away from  and  the  B BC, and it is  one  of the  ry books while you're waiting for the  
l.ueius Vorenus (Kevin McKidd) and  showing the violenee, sex and betrayal  largest partnerships with an American  next episode.  
Titus  l'ullo  (Ray  Stevenson).  that shaped Homan politics. Instead, it  company that the BBC has ever entered  
 
llislorieally, tlwy are the only two regu­ shows that these traits weren't limited  into. The budget for the first season of  Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu  

SWORDS AND SANDALS, REDUX 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assis1am Scene Ediwr 
Films basnd on ancient Greek and Homan eulturn, often refnrred to as swords-and-sandals films, have lluctuat­od in popularity throughout einematie history. Tho gonre is currently experi­IHJcing a resurgence thanks to the new IIBO s1wies, "Home." 
Fascination with these ancient cultures has nndurnd for centuries, and it has lwnn a subjed for film since the begin­ning of the movie industry itself. Thorn were ofl'erings from famous early direc­tors likn Cecil B. DeMille and D.W. (;riflith, and thesn early films defined the gnnrn with their lavish sets, enormous casts and intnnsn action scenns. 
Tlw threat of' tnlevision caused a n~surgnnco in the produetion of' these opul1mt dramas in the 1<)50s. Films like "Quo Vadis," "The Hobe," "Spartacus" and "Bon-llur" combined action and advnnture with stars like Kirk Douglas and Charlton lleston to lure audiences away from tho television and into the nwvin thnatm. 
These films were often so expensive and lavish that producing them was a huge gamble for studios that eould either result in huge returns or complete linaneial ruin. The 1959 version of "Ben­llur" was a huge hit, won 11 Oscars and saved MGM from the brink of bankrupt­cy. Twentieth Century Fox wasn't so lucky with their version of "Cleopatra" starring Elizabeth Taylor and Riehard Burton. The film eost $44 million dollars, equivalent to $273 million today, and noarly destroyed' the studio because it was a huge flop. 
In more reeent cinematic memory, "Gladiator" almost single-handedly revived the swords-and-sandals genre with its success. The film, starring Hussell Crowe, cost well ovor $100 mil­lion dollars, but achieved the lavish efTects of its predecessors using CGI efTeets instnad of having a cast of thou­sands and building huge sets. In 2001, the film won five Oscars, including Best Actor and Best Picture, whieh naturally led to a revivod interest in ancient histo­ry and a wave of movies that would try to imitate its success. 
One of the first major films to follow 
"Gladiator" was 2004's "Troy." The 
movie featured Brad Pitt as Achilles, 
Orlando Bloom as Paris and Erie Bana 
as llector. It was not well-received by 
eritics, who panned the actors and the 
script's attempt to adapt "The Iliad." Nor 
was it embraced by audiences. The lilm 
only spent six weeks in the top 10 and 
grossed far less domestically than it cost · to produce. 
The next film that attempted to repli­
eate the sueeess of "Gladiator" was 
Oliver Stone's "Alexander." The film had 
an all-star east that included Colin 
Ferrell as Alexander, Angelina Jolie as 
his mother Olympias, Anthony Hopkins 
as Ptolemy and Val Kilmer as Philip of 
Maeedonia. The lilm. like "Troy" failed 
to find critical praise or the massive box 
offieo suecess it noedod to recoup it 
budget. It spent only three weeks as one 
of the top 10 movies at the box of'l1ce, 
and it failed to soar higher than number 
six. "Alexander," like "Cleopatra" before 
it, was thought to have once again 
crushed the willingness of studios to 
take risks on lilms in the swords-and­
sandals genre. 

The latest incarnation of films that 
play on our culture's faseination with ancient history is IIBO's S!\ries, "Home." Its nearly $100 million dollar budget, large cast and dotailed sets reveal that it shares similarities with many of the films that came bnforo it. Tho looser pro­duction standards that IIBO rntains havn allowed the series to be much more graphic than many films that came before it. The fact that it is a series allows it to go into greater dotail than movies normally can in with their time constraints. 
Only time will tell if television will usurp einema as the place to debut swords-and-sandals epies, but if the long legacy of the genre rnveals anything, it's that the more things change, the more they stay the same. 
Hegardless of the medium tho appear in, these epics will feature large casts, plenty of action, opulent sets and a great deal of aetion. Ancient Grn1\k and Homan culturn died out thousands of years ago, but our fascination with tlwse cultures hasn't diminished much over tho cen­turins. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 


-
-

NHL 


Rangers down Pens for sixth straight victory 
Newly acquired Sturm helps Bruins topple first place Senators; Tucker's two goals push Leafs past Thrashers 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, December 2, 2005 

Associated Press 14 games while the slumping  Rangers atop the Atlantic  
NEW YORK-Marek Malik's Penguins (7-13-6) dropped their  Division (17-7-3). They had  
sudden offensive prowess has fourth straight, including three  failed on 18 straight man  
made him the brunt of Jaromir road contests. ·  advantages before Kondratiev  
Jagr's jokes. Malik's latest goal, the 28th in  got a shot through traffic from  
Malik has quickly become a 11 seasons which gave the  the left point with one second  
fan favorite at Madison Square Rangers a 2-1 lead at 6:31 of  remaining on Dick Tarnstrom's  
Garden, and not just when he the second period, was much  4-minute penalty for high-stick­ 
and the Rangers are on the ice. more conventional than his  ing.  
- The defenseman scored his first shootout theatrics. goal in regulation and fellow "It's about time," Malik said. defenseman Maxim Kondratiev ''I'm really happy I scored,  Lundqvist, filling in for injured regular Kevin Weekes, made 35 saves to earn his lOth  
netted his first in the NHL to especially the game-winning  victory (10-3-2).  
lead New York to its sixth goal."  "He made the difference," 18­ 
straight victory, 2-1 over the After a faceoff win by Michael  year-old Penguins forward  
Pittsburgh Penguins on Nylander, defenseman Michal  Sidney Crosby said. "We have to  
Thursday night. Rozsival slid the puck from  find ways to score but give him  
Last Saturday night, Malik right to left inside the blue line.  credit."  
- ended the longest shootout in Malik wound up for a shot from NHL history in the 15th round above the left circle and beat  Boston 3, Ottawa 0  
against Washington with a Marc-Andre Fleury high with  The Boston Bruins followed  
sparkling between the legs his first regulation goal in 40  up the trade of captain Joe  
move. That winning shot was games, dating to March 3, 2004.  Thornton with another stunning  
replayed on the center ice "He's on fire right now," said  development -this one on the  
screen early in the game winning goalie Henrik  ice.  
Thursday, one night after it was Lundqvist, a fan favorite himself  A day after shipping out their  
shown during the New York as he improved to 7-1-1 at  star, the last-place Bruins beat PHOTOGRAPHER/The Observer  
Knicks' NBA game while Malik home. "I think he was the best  first-place Ottawa on Thursday Patrice Bergeron (37) congratulates fellow Bruin Marco Sturm  
sat courtside. player on the ice."  night, handing the Senators after Sturm's first period goal Thursday in Boston's 3-0 win. 
''I'm scared to turn on· the TV Fleury didn't have much  their first shutout of the season  
now. You can't hide from him," chance to stop the drive from  and their first loss of any kind  
said Czech countryman Jagr, Malik, who had time to set up  in seven games. The victory was  ting leads, period," Stuart said.  Quinn said. "Our penalty killers  
who has 21 goals and assisted his shot.  delivered in part from Marco  "I don't remember playing that  were good, too. The best part  
on Kondratiev's score. "I can't "lie could do whatever he  Sturm, who scored on his first  long with a two-or three-goal  about penalty killing is usually  
go to the bar without people wanted," Fleury said. "I don't showing it. I can't even go to think he can do that too many  shift after being acquired for the former Bruins captain.  lead at all." Dominik Hasek made 21  the goaltender, and he certainly answered tonight."  
the Giants game because I think times in a row."  "We said it before the game:  saves for the Senators, who had  Tellqvist, giving regular  
he is going to be there again. Kondratiev made it 1-0 at It's just unbelievable." 7:5 2 of the first period with New York is on its longest New York's first power-play winning streak since a six-game goal in four games -their  We wanted a fresh start," said Sturm, who came over from the equally desperate San Jose Sharks along with Wayne  won six in a row and hadn't lost to a Northeast Division rival in 12 games this season. Dany Heatley was held without a  starter Ed Belfour a night off as the Maple Leafs were playing back-to-back games, earned Toronto's first shutout of the  
run from Nov. 3-14, 2001. The longest drought of this surpris­ Primeau and Brad Stuart.  point for the first time all sea­ season.  
Rangers are 11-3 in their last ingly good season that has the  "After the goal, I kind of felt free. I haven't felt that way for  son; acquired from Atlanta before the season, he would  "I've been waiting a long time for that," Tellqvist said. "It was  
a long time."  have tied Wayne Gretzky's  huge. All the credit goes to my  
Sturm had a goal and an  record for the longest point  O-men."  
assist, and Hannu Toivonen  streak with a new team.  Alexei Ponikarovsky had a  
stopped 26 shots to earn his  short-handed goal and Alex  
first career shutout while giving  Toronto 4, Thrashers 0  Steen also scored for the Maple  
Boston just its second victory in  In a matchup of two of the top  Leafs.  
11 games. The slump forced the  four power plays in the NHL,  Toronto has the league's best  
Bruins to shake up the roster by  Atlanta was short-handed more  road power-play percentage  
shipping the 1997 top overall  often than Toronto -and the  (26.9) and is second overall at  
draft pick to the Sharks.  Thrashers paid for it Thursday  22.7 percent.  
"I feel like I have let him  night.  The Thrashers are fourth  
down as a teammate and a  Mikael Tellqvist stopped 28  with a 21.6 percent success rate  
friend," defenseman Nick  shots for his first career  on the power play.  
Boynton said. "It hurts to know  shutout, Darcy Tucker scored  Though the Thrashers man­ 
that a move like this is what it took to play like this."  twice and the Maple Leafs stretched their winning streak  aged only two shots in the final period, they fired 16 second­ 
The victory took some of the  over Atlanta to six games by  period shots at Tellqvist.  
sting out of losing the popular  beating the Thrashers.  "He made some key saves on  
but potential-laden star. The  The Maple Leafs scored on  us tonight, but that's no excuse  
crowd stood and applauded for  three of their 11 power-play  for us," Atlanta center Marc  
the last 90 seconds, turning out  opportunities. The Thrashers  Savard said. "We've got to find  
a deafening roar when  were denied 26 times in the  some ways to score."  
Toivonen preserved the shutout  first two periods by Tellqvist  Toronto took a 2-0 lead in the  
on a shot from point-blank  and were 0-for-8 on power  opening period and added two  
range in the fmal seconds.  plays.  goals in the final 5 minutes. The  
New York Rangers' Jason Ward, left, congratulates goalie Henrik  "One of our problems in San  "He was sharp early in the  Thrashers were shut out for the  
Lundqvist after the Rangers beat the Penguins 2-1 Thursday.  Jose was getting goals and get- game," Toronto coach Pat  fourth time this season.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. D~adline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Ani Difranco,Caesar Chavez,  123 ND Ave. 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath.  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
John Lennon,Upton Sinclair,  Call574-229-0149.  bdrms includes all utilities, local  Do not go it alone. If you or 
WANTED  Noam Chomsky ...  FoR RENT  phone, washer/dryer, security sys­ someone you love needs  
OVER BREAK ADD YOUR NAME  908 SB Ave: Roomy 6·7 bdrm  tem. $400/student. 574-315-2509  confidential support or  
Rock the World  TO THE LIST-FIGHT FOR WHAT  WALK TO SCHOOL  home 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths,  ndstudentrentals.com  assistance, please call  
SAVE THE PLANET  IS RIGHT!  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES  w/d, broadband internet incl.  2006 SPRING SEMESTER NOW  Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819.  
Activists needed to protect  Envir. Work!  MMMRENTALS.COM  Avail. 06-07 & 07-08 school year.  AVAILABLE.  For more information, see our  
lndianas environment-$375+/wk,  $375+/wk 2-1 Opm  532-1408  327 Hill St: NEED A HOME  bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
2-1 Opm M-F, Pt for college  M-F FT/PT Available.  TODAY? NEED A SECOND  New 3-4 Bedroom Homes,  
students (574)232-7905  574-232-7905.  Area Houses and  CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home.  3 full Baths, 2+ Car Garage,  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise!  
Apartments for rent.  Close to ND & Corbys. Broadband  Fireplace, Cathedral Ceilings,  5 Days from $299!  
Law student needed part time  Log on to MichianaRentals.com  internet option. W/D & alarm sys­ 1 Ox20 Deck, Close to Campus.  Includes Meals,  
WANTED  by local company to assist  Call 574-993-RENT (7368).  tem avail. Move in today. Call Joe  $1700 monthly.  MTV Celebrity Parties!  
in patent application and  Crimmins 574-229-3659 or email  Available Aug. 06/07,  Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica  
HOLIDAY HELP $17.25  research projects. Flex hours.  KRAMER PROPERTIES  JCrimmins@ myi..andGrant.com  Call574·232-4527, 269-683·5038.  From $499!  
base-appt. flex. schedules,  Contact 574-Q32-1187.  HOUSES FOR LEASE  Campus Reps Needed!  
- cust. sales/service, no exp. nee.,  FOR THE 06/07  5-bdrm,2-bath remodeled house.  PromoCode:31  
cond. apply, all ages 18 & older,  SCHOOL YEAR.  Grad students or faculty. Walk to  PERSONAL  www.springbreaktravel.com  
Call Now,  FoR SALE  CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  ND. $1100/mo. $1100 deposit.  1-800-678-6386  
Start Alter Finals!  4 BEDROOMS,  574-292-8980.  SPRING BREAK· Early Booking  
South Bend 574-273·3835  02 Lincoln LSE fully loaded,  UP TO 10 BEDROOMS.  Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks ­ Go Knicks  
Indianapolis 317-253-2734  beautiful condition.  CALL 315-5032  Stop overpaying for rent.  $50 Deposit -800-234-7007  What would she do?  
Bloomington 812-330·1104  277-3868. $17,900.  ASK FOR KRAMER.  Visit BlueGoldrentals.com  www.endlesssummertours.com  What would she do?  





OUND THE NATION 
Friday, December 2, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
tnam record OT points 
NY Rangers 16-7 3 35 Philadelphia 15-6 3 33 New Jersey 12-10 2 26 NY Islanders 12-12 1 25 Pittsburgh 7-12 6 20 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team reeord OT points 
Ottawa 19-3 0 38 Montreal 14-7 4 32 Buffalo 15-9 1 31 Toronto 14-9 3 31 Boston 8-13 5 21 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
tnam meord OT points 
Carolina 16-7 1 33 Tampa Bay 14-10 3 31 Atlanta 10-12 3 23 Washington 8-14 2 18 Florida 7-14 4 18 
Western Conference, Central Division 
tPalll rPcord OT points 
Detroit 18-6 2 38 Nashville 15-4 3 33 Chicago 10-14 0 20 Columbus 7-18 0 14 St. Louis 4-15 3 11 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
tnam rneord OT points 
Vancouver 16-8 2 34 Colorado 14-9 3 31 Calgary 14-9 3 31 Edmonton 14-11 1 29 Minnesota 10-10 3 23 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record OT points 
Dallas 16-7 1 33 Los Angeles 16-9 1 33 Associated Press played even better as a of those teams would be make things happen." Phoenix 13-12 2 28 junior this season and is a mistaken for two-time Linebacker Spencer Anaheim 11-11 4 26 LOS ANGELES -UCLA leading candidate for the defending national cham­Havner, who leads the San Jose 8-12 4 20 has made a string of Heisman. pion USC. Bruins with 84 tackles, 
opposing runners look like He and power-running UCLA has had three thinks the defense is ready Heisman Trophy material teammate LenDale White weeks to try to figure out for Bush & Co. -and none was exactly will be slashing at a how to bottle up the ''I'm looking forward to
CCHA Conference Standings 
Reggie Bush. defense that allowed Trojans' running game facing Reggie Bush. Maybe The No. 11 Bruins' gen­Justin Forsett to rush for while keeping 2004 it's stupid to think that, but erous defense is allowing 153 yards and Marshawn Heisman winner Matt that's how I look at it,"
team conf. pts. overall 
219.5 yards rushing a Lynch 135 for California; Leinart from dissecting Havner said. "Heggie has a 1 Miami (OH) 8-1-1 17 9·2·1 game to rank 115th in the Jerome Harrison to pick their secondary with his certain style and it's usual­2 Ohio Slate 6·4-1 13 7·5·1 country. UCLA knows it up 260 for Washington passes. ly to head outside. 3 Michigan 5-1·1 11 9·3-1 will have to plug many State; and Mike Bell to run "It's a little tougher "We have to have people 4 Ferris State 3·1-4 10 7·3·4 holes to have a chance for 153 and Gilbert Harris preparing for USC because coming to the ball. You can 5 Alaska Fairbanks 4·3·1 9 6·4·2 against No. 1 Southern another 113 for Arizona. of Reggie Bush," UCLA cut off his lanes. He's not 6 Lake Superior 3·5·2 8 6·5·3 California at the Coliseum The Bruins (9-1, 6-1 Pac-cornerback Marcus Cassel Superman, although he 7 Northern Michigan 4·6·0 8 7·7·0 on Saturday. 1 0) still beat Cal and said. "They've got a great may look like it at times. 8 Bowling Green 3·7·1 7 3·9·1 Bush, who was extraor­Washington State with late passing attack, a great You can stop anybody if g Michigan State 2·4·3 7 5·6·4 dinary in a 29-24 victory comebacks, with their only quarterback and they have your defense is pursuing10 Western Michigan 3-4·1 7 3·7·2 over UCLA a year ago, has loss at Arizona. But none a running back who can the ball properly."
11 Nebraska-Omaha 3-5-0 6 7·6·0 12 NOTRE DAME 2·5·1 5 3-8·1 
IN BRIEF 

Buckne~l becoming regular Colts' coach tries to fix team's 12 penalties for 106 yards in upset Winner special teams, penalties Monday night's 26-7 win over LEWISBURG, Pa. -Perhaps it INDIANAPOLIS -So many ele­Pittsburgh. He said those are prob­shouldn't be considered an upset ments of the Indianapolis Colts are lems he'd like to see solved before any more when Bucknell beats a working perfectly that coach Tony the playoffs, starting with Sunday's big-name opponent. Dungy is having a tougher time home game against Tennessee (3­
This small private school has than usual finding things to fix. 8). developed a reputation for knocking But there are problems that need Browns rookie quarter­off some of college basketball's big solved, he said. back has winning qualities
NCAA FOOTBALL guns over the last couple of seasons. There's a lot to like about the CLEVELAND -Charlie Frye stum­LA Tech at Fresno State Last year, it scored a regular-season undefeated Colts. bled in his NFL debut, and fell flat road victory over Pittsburgh and They rank third in the league in on his face in the next game. 
around the dial 
9:00 p.m., ESPN2 
shocked Kansas in the first round of total offense and fourth in total However, Cleveland's rookie quar­the NCAA tournament. defense. Kicker Mike Vanderjagt terback also displayed a knack for 
Notre Dame at Stanford 2005 
The latest ranked opponent to fall has missed just one field goal all getting the most out of his ability Instant Classic to the Bison is Syracuse, which was season, and Peyton Manning and and for making plays when the 
9:00 p.m., ESPN Classic No. 19 when Bucknell scored a 7 4-Edgerrin James are playing like odds appear overwhelming. It's one 69 win on Nov. 22 at the Carrier MVP candidates. of the qualities that made the Dome. But the Colts (11-0) are struggling Browns draft him.
NBA 

"Whether or not it's a surprise to with elements of the kicking game. "The kid," said Browns QB Trent 
New York at Detroit 
some people or a lot of people, none They rank last in the league in Dilfer, "has moxie." 
7:00 p.m., ESPN of these games are going to be a sur­yards per kickoff return and 23rd Frye has heard that word ­
Cleveland at Seattle prise to us," said Bucknell point out of 32 teams in punt return moxie -used to describe him guard Abe Badmus, beads of sweat average. They rank 28th in yards many times before. Now, if he only
10:30 p.m., ESPN 

dripping from his face after taking a allowed per punt return and 15th knew what it meant.
Toronto at Atlanta 
breather during a recent practice at in yards allowed per kickoff return. "I really don't know what the def­
7:00p.m., TSN 

Bucknell's home court. Dungy also was unhappy with the inition is," Frye said. 
.. 

I
1 
t 
I 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday,December 2, 2005 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Our Lady of Guadalupe Cal r f Events 2 5 Friday, December 2 Las Posadas 7:30pm-Coleman-Morse Lounge r-J Traditional Posadas Procession to commemorate the journey to Bethlehem r-J Accompanied by El Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora ----Hot Chocolate, Churros, and Pan Dulce vvill be served! Sunday, December 4 Spanish ass an ua alu e Presentation with Professor Tim Matovina Associate Professor of Theology & The William and Anna Jean Cushwa Directorofthe Cushwa Center for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism 1:30pm Coleman-Morse Lounge r-J Mass (In Spanish) accompanied by Coro Pri"Javera, A1ariachi ND, and Ballet Folkl6rico 3:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge r-.J Presentation (in English) ofProf. Matovina' s new book: Guadalupe andHer Faithful: Latino Catholics in San Antonio, jro1n Colonial Origins to the Present r-J Join us for tamales and pan dulce! Friday, December 9 Feast of San Juan Diego & commemoration of the Feast of ur La y of ua alupe 5:15pm-Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Presider: Fr. Bob Pelton, CSC With the sacred music and dance of El Coro Primavera de lvuestra Senora, The Notre Dame Folk Choir, A-fariachi 1\'D, and Ballet Folkl6rico rNST!TUTE J~r The collection at this Mass wi II benefit hurricane victims in the Yucatan Peninsula and will be administered through C-M Catholic Relief Services Latino studies Campus Ministry  


' . ' ' ­
• • 
• 
I I 
I I I 
I I I I I I I 4fll 
. 
I 
' 
Friday, December 2, 2005 

The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 



Eagles, Seahawks find team positions reversed 

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
Notre Dame Student CAamAer Music 
Saturday, December3, 2005 
2:oo PM, Penote Performer's Assembly  
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center  
N 0 T  UNIVERSITY BANDS  N 0 T  
R  Conduc:t.d by &wun.a O'Leary  R  
E  and  E  
IK8IIy May  
D  3:00 PM, SUNDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2005  D  
A  LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL  A  
M  M  
E  DeBartolo Performing Arts Center  E  
(/J;,.-~,ttr &,,,., !1t).,.""~  
./A-tv.mj.~rllli,d'J (IJiil·i'~'./..,.,,1/,  
3:30pm. Sunday, December 4, 2005  
l)ecio Mainstagc 'I'hcatrc  
l )cRutolo Pclforming Atts Center  

FREE CONCERTS. RESERVED SEATING. CALL 631·2800. 
DEBARTOLO
~ 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
DEPARTMP.NT Of MUSIC 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 


Avrosmith 
Lenny Kravitz 
Sotorday December 17, 2005 Van lfndellfrtna • Grand Rapids 
tlvul will perform Christmas tlcmlcs plus his hits Including, "Billy's Got tlis Bnr Oogglcn On" and "'Thcz Shakcz" 
Monday December 12 • 7:30 pm Morris Performing flrts Center 
South Bcznd, Indiana 
On salcz tlovczmbczr 5th at 10:00 am at Morris Box Officcz, chargcz by phoncz 574/D5-9190 or morrlscenter.org 
,". ??1~41!-" 
... 489A8101 

Associated Press 
PIIILADEI.PIIIA -One team is trying to secure a division title and move closer to earn­ing the top seed in the confer­ence. The other is lighting to stay in the playoff race. 
The Philadelphia Eagles have been in this position often the last few years. Only this time, the roles are reversed and the Eagles are the desper­ate ones. 
The conference-leading Seattle Seahawks (9-2) can clinch their second consecutive NFC West title with a victory over Philadelphia (5-6) on Monday night. 
Meanwhile, the reigning NfC champions just want to keep alive their slim playoff hopes. Eight other teams have better records than the Eagles, and two more are equal. 
Does being a desperate team make Philadelphia a more dangerous opponent? 
"If you're desperate with playmakers, yeah. If you're desperate for making plays, yeah," Eagles safety Brian 
1984, have won seven straight, one short of tying a team reeord for eonseeutive· wins in a season. 
"They arn a formidable opponent," Seahawks eoaeh Mike Holmgren said of tlw Eagles. "They have a lot of good players. Thorn arn a cou­ple guys that they w11ro eount­ing on that are hurt, but thny still have a lot of' good players. They have a lot of pride. It's a dirticult place to play." 
While the Eagles are used to playing in the national spot­light, the Smthawks are mak­ing their first appearance under the Monday night lights this season. Philadelphia is playing its third Monday night game of the year and sneorHI 

-· 
at home in four weeks. 
"It's the greatest stage for a regular-season game," Seahawks running baek Shewn Alexander said. "It's one of those things where this is a game that everybody grew up watehing and everybody's fam­ily and friends will be watch­ing. We're excited to show 
what we can do." 
Alexander has 

Dawkins said. "If "We expect to win. shown plenty this you're desperate season. A two­
We expect to win
and you're going time Pro Bowl to go out on the every game we selection, field with no step into." Alexander is hav­emotion and play ing a career year just another going into !'reo
Brian Dawkins
game, no. agency. "It depends Eagles safety Alexander leads 
what team shows up. It depends on how you prepare during the week. If you're being diligent in studying the film to make sure you know your opponent completely inside and out and going out and expecting to win the game, not just going out and being desperate, hoping you win the game." 
Which team is Philadelphia? 

"We expect to win. We expect to win every game we 
step into," Dawkins said. 
The Eagles snapped a four­game losing streak with a 19­14 victory over lowly Green Bay last week. Without injured quarterback Donovan McNabb and banished 
wide receiver Terrell Owens, the offense had 
trouble moving the ball. But running back Brian Westbrook had a career-high 120 yards rushing and the defensn stopped-Brett Favre in crucial spots. 
Seattle was helped by three missed field goals in its 24-21 overtime victory against the New York Giants. The Seahawks, off to their best start since opening 12-2 in 
the NFL with 
1,339 yards rush­ing and 20 touchdowns. lie's seeking his ninth 100-yard game, which would break the team record he shares with Chris Warren. 
The Eagles' once-dominant defense has had varied success against the run this season. Atlanta (200), Kansas City (144), Dallas (167) and Denver 
(255) each had their way on 
the ground against Philly. But the Eagles shut down Oakland's 
LaMont Jordan

"It's the greatest 
(19 yards on 16

stage for a 
carries) in Week regular-season 3 and held San Diego's
game.... We're 
LaDainian

excited to show 
Tomlinson to a 

what we can do." career-worst 7 yards rushing on 1 7 carril~s on
Shaun Alexander 
Oct. 23. 

Seahawks running back 
"lie's like L.T., 
but in a bigger 
package," Eagles defensive end N.D. Kalu said of Alexander. "That's what makes him searier." 
Led by Alexander and quar­terbaek Matt llasselbnck, the Snahawks have tho league's top offense, averaging :~8(>. 1 yards per game. The Eagles had the best passing offense beforn Mike McMahon threw for just 91 yards in his SIH~ond start sinee rnplaeing McNabb. 


When Hurricane Stan devastated 
the Guatemalan village where 
we work, we pledged at least 
$2000 toward the relief effort.
Loads of Silver & Beaded Jewelry, Tapestry 
Please come visit, and maybe

Watt Hangings, Hand Crafted Gift Items, Accessories, and Much, Much More!! even help us surpass our goal! 
DIRECT IMPORTSilOW PRICES! IIIQIE CHRISTIIS11m1 
Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Mexico • Thailand • India 
LaFortune-Solin Room (1" Ft.) Proceeds from sales of jewelry guarantee the loving Nov. 28-Dec 3 (Sat.) 11-5pm hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their aver!'lge & M-T-W Evenings 7:30-1 Opm salary, as well as funds for the1r education. 
Friday, December 2, 2005

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
HOCKEY 


Irish look to right the ship 
Team carries four­
game winless streak 
into home-and-home 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
After enduring three losses and a tie in its last four games, the Notre Dame hockey team is looking to get back in the win column at least once in this weekend's home-and-home with Western Michigan. 
''I'm just hoping we can get back on track -last weekend was probably the worst hockey we've played all season," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said of last 
'--week's 4-1 and 5-2 losses to Ohio State at the Joyce Center, which left Notre Dame 3-8-1 on the season. The Irish lost to and tied Miami of Ohio the week before. Jackson said he is avoiding comparisons to last year's dis­astrous, season ending 22­game winless streak, which left the Irish psychologically fragile heading into this season. "If the players are letting it effect them, that;s their mis­take," he said. "But I'm going to do everything in my power to make sure we play well tomorrow night [and Saturday]." After averaging 3. 7 goals per game through their first nine contests, the Irish have scored just 5 in their last four outings. They have scored none without at least a man advantage. "We haven't scored a five on five goal in four games," .Jackson said. "We just have to 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Committed recruits arrive for Banquet 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
The 84th University of Notre Dame football banquet will take place at 7 p.m. tonight at the Joyce Center, but with less signifi­cance than usual -not that it's a bad thing. 
The football banquet normally marks one of the biggest recruit­ing weekends of the year, with several highly-rated, undecided prospects taking their official vis­its to Notre Dame. 
But since head coach Charlie Weis has already secured 22 known. verbal commitments for hi<> first full recruiting class, there will not be a single uncommitted recruit in attendance at the ban­quet. 
"In the past it's been the big weekend for Notre Dame to kind of shore up and land some top guys," Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com said of the ban­quet. "But [Weis] has kind of fast forwarded that process and he already has his top guys in the fold." 
With the maximum number of players allowed in one recruiting class set at 25 by the NCAA, Notre Dame has very few spot.<> remaining. But Frank said run­ning back James Aldridge and offensive lineman Chris Stewart, and possibly wide receiver/kick returner George West, will become the first-ever Irish recruits in the modern era to enroll early and begin school in January. 
Early entrants can be counted towards the previous year's 
recruiting cla'is, giving Weis room for five or six more commitments. Hecruits cannot olTicially sign letters of intent until February. 
Notre Dame will be hosting sev­eral committed players this week­end. Frank believes Aldridge, offensive lineman Eric Olsen, kieker Hyan Burkhart, quarter­back Demetrius Jones, tight end Paddy Mullen, running back Munir Prince, defensive ends John Hyan and Kallen Wade, wide receivers Hob Parris and Barry Gallup and fullback Luke Schmidt will attend today's ban­quet. 
Former Notre Dame head coach and current ESPN analyst Lou Holtz will be the lead speak­er. Frank said the banquet, while not as vital to recruiting as in years past, will still be important and meaningful to the team. 
"I think it<> just more going to be a celebration of a season that ha'i turned out pretty well," he said. Notes 
+ Gatorade announced the winners of its annual state high school football player of the year awards thi'l week. Seven current Irish verbal commitments were reeognized as the top player in their respective states -line­backer Morrice Hichardson [Georgia], quarterback Demetrius Jones ]Illinois], fullback Luke Schmidt [Indiana], wide receiver Barry Gallup [Massachusetts], running back Munir Prince [Mi<;souri], safety Ja'ihaad Gaines [Nevada! and offensive lineman Erie Olsen [New Yorkl. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 

do the small things that allow for goals to be scored, like going to the net hard, fighting for ice in front of the net, mak­ing sure we're shooting when we get into the scoring areas rather than make a nice play or a pass, face offs, and power plays." 
After splitting time with freshman Jordan Pearce four assists in the last five games. 
The Irish will be looking for their first road win when they travel to Lawson Arena in Kalamazoo for Western's half of the home and home Friday. Jackson said the feat will be made easier by the fact Kalamazoo is only a short 


DANCE COMPANY 
ofnotre dame 
Soul 
Washington Hall 7pm Thursday Dec. I Friday Dec. 2 Tickets $3 general seating $5 reserved VIP seating 
Available at the door or in advance by contacting Ashley Lucchese at danceco@nd.edu 
for most of the 'Tm just hoping we can bus ride from season, junior get back on track -South Bend. goalie Dave "When we're
last weekend was
Brown has only an hour started the last probably the worst and a half four games. hockey we have played away, that's a Pearce played positive," he
all season. ,,
in backup duty said. "It should Saturday be, just against Ohio Jeff Jackson because of the State, but Irish coach location, some­
Jackson said 
Brown will 
start against the Broncos. 
"I want [Jordan] to stay fresh because I think we're going to need him this season," Jackson said. "David's played well this season and I'd like to see him continue to play well, but I 
... 
don't want to have Jordan get too far away from playing." 
Western Michigan comes into the contest with a record of 3­4-1. The Broncos took No. 11 Colgate to overtime twice last weekend, tying 2-2 in one game and losing 4-3 in the other. They are led by forward Brent Walton. Despite standing only 5'9" tall, Walton was sixth in the NCAA in scoring last season and has four goals and exams and some accumulated fatigue, Jackson shortened this week's practices to only an hour and a half each. 
thing  of  a  
rivalry."  
Due  to  impending  final  

"I don't want to think fatigue is a factor, but school is getting real heavy this time of year with finals and all that," the coach said. "I want them to get rested and mentally prepared and get their schoolwork in line." 
The Irish and Broncos will drop the puck at 7:35 Friday in Kalamazoo and 7:05 Saturday in South Bend. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


(advance purchasing highly recommended) 
Friday, December 2, 2005 

The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish women lead after Invitational's first.day 
Notre Dame enters the meet's second day in first, scoring 555 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Spons Writer 

The women's swimming and diving team entered this weekend's Notre Dame Invitational brimming with confidence, and Thursday's n~sults justified that approach. 
Through the first day of the three-day event at Holfs Aquatic Center, the Irish are in first place with 555 points out of 11 teams. Notre Dame will have to hold off Utah for the next two days. The Utes are only 29 points behind the Irish. 
Notre Dame has shown remarkable improvement as this season has progressed. The team's times and overall performance has improved from week to week. Thursday was clear evidence of that improvement as the 
Irish achieved two career best times, one season best time and an NCAA 'B' cut time. 
The Irish dominated throughout the day, register­ing nine top-three finishes and not finishing worse than second place in any of Thursday's six events. 
Notre Dame the top three spots in the 500-freestyle on the first day. Freshman Casey Wagner took first place with a career-best time of 4:54.89. Classmate Claire Hutchinson (4:57.82) finished in second, followed by junior Ellen Johnson (4:57.97). 
The 500-freestyle was fol­lowed by the 200 individual medley, where Jessica Stephens took first place with an NCAA 'B' cut time of 
2:04.22. Junior Ann Barton finished in second place with a season-best time of 2:05.83. 
The night concluded with an impressive performance by sophomore diver Tara 1-lyer, who compiled a career­best 313.45 points. The score put her in a close second to 
Utah's Kelsey Patterson. 

Irish coach Carrie Nixon said Notre Dame's first day of an invitational typically has been its weakest, so the Irish performance on the second day will bn telling. 
In the Minnesota Invitational, which took place from Nov. 18-20, the Irish performed stronger on the second and third days of the meet. The Irish posted a win after that mnet. ~ 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
MEN'S SWIMMING 


Teatn dotninates field, taking first place in three events 
By JACK THORNTON Spons Writer 

It was a night for redemption and rneognition at the lirst day of the 11th annual Irish Invitational, as tho men's swim­ming team displayed its depth while domi­nating the lield. 
N o t r e Dame quali­li!~d 35 of its 39 prelimi­nary entries for the nvening 


Coyle

finals, grab­bing more than 40 percent of the point-earning spots and tak­ing first place in three of the 
day's six events. Overall, the Irish ended the day with 878.5 points -well ahead of Utah's 474 and North Dakota's 317. 
"What you saw this morning, for one thing, was just another almost overwhelming example of how deep this team is," head coach Tim Welsh said. 
Strong individual perf'ormam~­es were a recurring theme dur­ing the day. Jay Vandenberg continued his winning streak in the 500-yard freestyle, posting a season-best time of 4:29.72. 
The Irish also had several swimmers post qualifying times for the Big East Championship. 
Bryan Guarnier, Graham Parker and Dean Fernandez made "cut times" in the 200 individual medley (IM), while Patrick O'Berry and Brian 
We have ATMs near you-right where you need them, right when you need them. 
' 

Freeman qualified in the 500-their season-best time. f'reestyle. Later in the night, the 400­
"We've had wonderful results medley relay team of Doug in the middle of the pack," Bauman, Cavadini, Handolph Welsh said. "Look at Brian and Kegelman also took first Freeman swim-and shed nearly ming 4.34:95 in two seeonds off its the 500-freestyle. "We've had previous season­And I don't think best time.
wonderful results 
he's swam that "It feels really
in the middle 
before at Notre good, nspecially Dame, yet if you of the pack." just with Utah place that in con­and North Dakota text of' our times in this year's
Tim Welsh 
this season, it's field," Handolph
Irish coach 
said. "Helays have pretty good." 
The Irish (4-1) opened the night with a solid win in the 200­freestyle relay, as Louis €avadini, Tim Handolph, Nick Fanslau and Tim Kegelman shaved nearly four seconds off 

JMs on campus with NO surcharge! 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
been a weak spot 
for us. Usually, we're very solid there, but in the first half of the year we've struggled in dual meets." 
best 21.04 seconds in the 50-frel~stylc. "But with the help of guys who were tapering and shaving, it knocked us up a level, and since we were winning it kept us out of our mellow state." 
The diving squad put up arguably its bnst pPrformanee of the year, with Sam Stoner taking seeond plaen with 328.75 points, Michael Bullin earning firth place wit.h 305.65 points and Scott Coyle plaeing eighth with 276.46. 
"Scott Coyle placing the top eight is great, and it's good to see him doing that again," said Welsh, who also compared the dnpth of the diving tnam to that of the swimming tnam. 
Though the Irish Invitational is traditionally a venue for swimmnrs to qualify for the Big East Championship, this year it takes on new meaning for a team that has now qualilied all but one of its swimmers for the February event. 
"Last year the Big East put a squad limit on the team, so now you can only bring 25," Cavadini said. "So for the guys that don't go to the Big East IChampionshipl, t!.lis is their big 
meet. 

The action opens
"Scott Coyle
Entering the up again today at meet, Notre Dame placing in the top 10 a.m. with the only had two relay eight is great. 200-yard medley wins in five deal relay, followed by
and it's good to
meets. the 400 IM, 100­"This season see him doing butterfly,?200­we've had a hard that again." fr e est y I e,? 1 0 0­time winning breaststroke,?100­relays," said backstroke, three­
Tim Welsh 
Cavadini, who also meter diving and posted a season­Irish coch the 800-freestyle 

relay. Welsh said there is still much work to do.. 
"The test is to go strong for six sessions," hn said. "As ~~xdt­ing as tonight is, getting b1u:k up in tho morning I today I and doing it again Saturday is very tiring. And tlw experience we want to get eaeh year from this is to go six sessions is a row right. 
Contact Jack Thornton at 
jthornt4@nd.cdu 

Winter Snow Shimmers 
and so sh::llid yarr hair! 
Let us take care of yarr color 
before the holidays. 
We're open through Dec 22nd. 
Uliver:sity H:rir Stylist 
located in the LaFortune Center 631-5744 
,..--­
! 
I 
1 
page 20 
I 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles ailll to illlprove ·on 1-4 start to season 
Friday, December 2, 2005 

The Observer + SPORTS TRACK AND fiELD 
Irish host year's first meet 

Belles prepared to play against North Park 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
After a 1-4 start for the Belles, coach Steve Bender hopes to use his team's con­stant intensity to turn the sea­son around, starting with North Park University. 
Saint Mary's has had little proof of the hard work they have put into training for bas­ketball, but despite their record has not lost their con­centration. 
"The one main high point of this team is their intensity," said Bender. "I can never fault them for that." 
But unfortunately for the Belles, hard work alone does not win basketball games. The Belles have struggled this year on offense. Their leading scorer, Allison Kessler, aver­ages 12.8 points a game, but also shoots a mere 42 percent from the floor. In fact, the team as a whole has a 34 per­cent field goal percentage, far too low for any team with a 
-·chance of winning big games. 
"We've had to get back to the fundamentals at prac­tice," Bender said. "We need to work on the little things before we can improve." 
After playing Hope on Wednesday, Bender has been concerned with the lack of a strong presence in the paint. 
~The Belles will alternate between a three guard lineup and the traditional two guards, two forwards, and a center formation. which already eliminates an inside presence for Saint Mary's. Also, center/forward Nicole Beier averages only three rebounds a game, while point guard Bridget Lipke leads the team with thirty rebounds in the five games this year. "We have been working at practice to build up our confi­dence when we have the ball," Bender said when asked about his team's struggling offense. "We need to be 
stronger offensively to take the ball to the basket." 
The Belles also need to improve their turnover mar­gin. In their first five games, the Belles forced 76 opponent turnovers while committing a whopping 97 of their own. This ratio needs to improve if the Belles want to win against a heatable North Park team. 
On a positive note, Coach Bender has been impressed with Lipke, who has emerged as a team leader. Lipke, the starting point guard, has played with a passion for the game that has led her to be the highest rebounder and second highest scorer on the team. 
"Bridget has definitely been the leader so far this year," said Bender. "I hope that her love of the game is conta­gious." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
DePaul, Butler come to Blue and Gold meet 
By JASON GALVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track and field teams look to begin their season on the right foot at this weekend's Blue and Gold Invitational. The event, which will feature the Notre Dame team and other athletes from DePaul and Butler, will take place at 5 p.m. this Friday at Loftus Sports Center. 
Though this meet has a rela­tively small number of partici­pants from other schools, each of the teams will look to use this event as a starting point from which to gauge their progress during their off-season training. 
"We started this meet years ago as an inter-squad meet, but the last couple of years we've invited a couple other schools," Assistant coach John Millar said. "It gives the athletes who have been training a chance to see where they're at and even as a motivator." 
With a long season ahead and the next meet over a month away, the team will get the opportunity to put their training to use in a more competitive atmosphere. Many of the dis­tance runners have been able to compete with the cross-coun­try team this fall. For athletes in other events such as sprint­ing, hurdles and high jump, this event will be tbe first opportu­nity to sufficiently put their abilities to the test. 
"The sprinters, jumpers and throwers work diligently from the first of September on and they can use this event as a benchmark for their condition­ing," coach Joe Piane said. "It'll be a good start and a great opportunity for them since they haven't had the opportunity to do much over the summer." 
In addition to finally putting their skills to the test after these months of off-season training, each of the athletes will also have the opportunity of to qualify for the Big East meet. 


"For the sprinters, throwers, runners and all those not in cross country, it's a great opportunity to see where they are fitness-wise and get the qualifying out of the way," sen­ior distance runner Stephanie Madia said. "Everyone's excited and we have a lot of people that are ready to run at Big East Standards." 
The Irish track team has a returning core of talented ath­letes who qualified for the NCAA championships last year and several others who are expected to make a strong showing this year and who may qualify for the Big East meet this Friday. 
"For the men, Ryan Postel, Austin Wechter, Charlie Hilding and Zack Labrecque are people I would expect that should not only make it, but do good for the rest of the season," Millar said. "I also expect athletes on the women's team such as Maryann Erigha, Okechi Ogbukiri, Crysta Swayzer and Brienne Davis to qualify and perform at a pretty high level." 
However, veterans and proven stars should not be the only ones contributing this sea­son. 
"''m also always looking for a few surprises and other people to step up," she said. "Zach Labrecque, moving from the 200 to the 400, is someone who could really do well." 
The Invitational is something that the team can look forward to with some excitement com­ing out of the off-season. Each of the athletes have been preparing to perform at a high level this season and the first meet will, along with an evalua­tion of performance, prove to be a fun and exhilarating expe­rience. 
"Meets are something they gear towards," Millar said. The chance to compete is something to look forward to and I think they're excited about finally getting the opportunity." 
Contact Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 

Friday, December 2, 2005 

The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Baraka 
continued from page 24 
"Loads of progress, especially in 
these last few wenks. The girls 
have gotten together, gotten 
their attendanee up and really 

worked hard." 
Kwiatt, a senior who has been 

a part of the boxing club sinee 
her freshman year, said her 

interest in the sport spawned 
from watching her brother 
Michael participate in Bengal 
Bouts when she was in high 

school. 
"I saw there were ND 

women's boxers out there !dur­
ing Bengal Bouts! helping," she 
said. "I was interested in it at 
activities night and thought that 
would be a great way to have 
fun, meet people and be able to 
work for a good cause." 
Kwiatt said the elub has 

n~dndkated its focus this year to 
raising money for the missions. 
"We're having 17 exhibition 

l'ights, and all proceeds are 
going to be donated to Holy 
Cross mission schools," Kwiatt 
said. 
The weekend will begin with a 

first-hand account of the impor­
tance of the cause, Cleary said. 
"We have one of the priests 

from Ia Holy Cross mission in 
Al'rical coming in to speak to us 
!Friday!. so hopefully that will 
reinforce what we're here for 
and why we're fighting on 
Sunday." 
In her four years, Kwiatt said 

shn has snen boxers improve 
and develop their own style, 
even as tlw cause has remained 
the same. 
"It's just great sneing people grow and change as boxers over the ynars," she said. "Especially novices, watching them as they first eomn into boxing and don't know anything about it. Then they step into the ring, and they know how to throw punches, and they know how to defend themselves and they know l!Jch­nique. It's just great watching the girls year-by-y11ar." 
The lighl'i have a maximum of 

thn~e 1::m rounds. 
Cleary said the dub's prac­ticns are crucial because of the demanding nature of the bouts. 
"We're definitely here to get the girls motivatnd -get them to conw back evnry single day," shn said. "It's not easy to step in that ring." 
Of the 17 bouts on Sunday's card, Kwiatt said she is particu­larly excited for the final light, between junior Kelsey Miller and senior Jessica Fickey. 
"Jess Fkkey is one of the most skilled hoxers in the club," Kwiatt said. ''I'm looking for­ward to her light. ... It will be one of the many featured lights." 
The bouts will take place in Auxiliary (;ymnasium 2 of the .1/\CC, and tiekel'i are $5. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler I @nd.edu 
when they had to "fight." But seven set assists, two service their senior leadership, includ­aces, 19 digs and four blocks.

Advance 

ing Henican and Brewster, The Flyers have one senior 
continued from page 24 helped the team win the battle. on their 24-11 squad, setter 
"Our strength is that we are and leader Nicole Schott. familiar 2-0 lead, but a young a team and that when we have Though young, Dayton showed Dayton team kept fighting and to, we play together," Henican plenty of character, Flyer tied the match at 2-2, reminis­said. coach Tim Horsman said. cent of Notre Dame losses to Brewster, despite often being "We enjoyed playing Pittsburgh and Tennessee. double-teamed at the net, fin­tonight," he said. "They're a 
"It was obviously a battle," ished with 16 kills. When great team obviously. Notre Brown said. "And we've got to asked about Dame had a super give Dayton a lot of credit. I Dayton's approach year."
"The season was
think they played very well. to defending the When asked This time of year sometimes senior All­on the line. No about how proud it's tough." American, Brown he was of his
matter what your 
The Flyers just wouldn't go said doubling her team's comeback
rank, you want
away. at the net was the and of being a When the match headed to correct strategy. to go on." bounce or two the fifth game, the tested Irish "I would do the away from upset-knew this match had to end same if I were Adrlanna Stasluk ting the No. 6 
differently from last week's going against Irish, Horsman 
Irish middle blocker half-joked.
live-game loss to Tennessee. Brewster," she 
"We were just ready to go," said lleniean, who broke the Notre Dame single-match digs record with 43. "We looked at each other in the eyes, and we said, in the huddle, 'We take it here, and that's the only option. There's no other way."' 
The senior admitted, at times, the Irish hadn't played their game. There were times 


Michigan 
continued from page 24 
26, but began to settle for perimeter shooting as the game progressed. Francis managed just eight field goals in the game despite starting oft' strong. 
"[Wei should use Torin I Francis I a little more," 13rey said. "[We are) happy with his demeanor and [he is) keeping it sin1ple. He's in that kind of mood, scoring around the basket. [We have to! remember to get him touehes." 
Francis is 12-of-21 from the field this season, averaging 10.7 points and 10.7 rebounds per game. 
Michigan will give Notre Dame a challenge with its ability to spread their players out on the floor. Wolverines head coach Tommy Amaker has a strong perimeter led by Daniel Horton, Dion Harris and Lester Abram to go along with Courtney Sims in the post. 
I lorton leads the Wolverines with 16.3 points per game. Sims is averaging 14.5 points to go along with 6.8 rebounds per game. 
Brey said Thursday that he i'> impressed with Horton's oJI'en­sivo game, speeifieally his ability to <Teate for himself and make an irnpaet on tiw floor. 
"!Horton! took over last year," 13rey said. "lit isl kind of what he's done this year. lie's made very big shol'i when there's been game prnssure on that team. IIe's strong enough where back small­er guard down and overpower him." 
Brey made it no secret that he 

Round I ­Match 1 
"We'd like to have that bounce back," he said. 
Schott, who finished with 60 set assists in her final match, said she knew her team could compete with the experienced Irish. 
"[The comeback] showed our character," she said, choked up. "We knew we could do it. 
We knew we could compete with them tonight. I'm disap­pointed with the result, of course. We did everything we could, and it didn't go our way." 
In the fifth-game, the Irish looked looser than they had all match when they jumped to an early 6-1 lead. 
The relentless Flyers came back, making the Irish work hard for nearly every point. But Notre Dame was able to handle the pressure. 
"The season was on the line," Stasiuk said. "No matter what your rank, you want to go on. I don't know if it was really tense. They IDayton I played really well. We just kept light­ing." 
With the second round match looming just less than 21 hours after last night's victory, the Irish have no time to be tired. Fatigue should not be a factor tonight, Ileniean said. 
"It's all adrenaline now," she said. "It doesn't matter how tired you an~." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

said. "lit] opened up things for Mallorie ICroal] and Adrianna." 
Croal, a freshman who shares time with fellow outside hitter/sophomore Ellen Heintzman, sparked the Irish. She pounded 18 kills and had five blocks. 
Stasiuk played a well-round­ed match. She added 16 kills, 
and Amaker are friendly off the 
court. He even went as far as 
saying that getting ready for 
Saturday's game was unusual 
because of his relationship with 
Michigan's coach. 
''I'm probably more uncomfort­able with this preparation because Tommy is a good friend," Brey said. "We've been in thi'i business a long time. 
Brey and Amaker were once assistant coaches together at Duke under Blue Devils head coaeh Mike Krzyzewski. 
"Certainly Notre Dame­Michigan is more important than Amaker-Brey. It's a match up that fan bases get excited about both in Ann Arbor and South Bend." 
The Irish lost a 61-60 heart­breaker last year to the Wolverines in Ann Arbor. In that game, No. 20 Notre Dame led 60­58 when Horton completed a 3­point play with 20.7 seeonds left to give Michigan the win. 
Former point guard Chris Thoma'i had two opportunities to win the game on the ensuing possession, but missed two con­secutive field goals as time expired. 
"Any time Michigan and Notre Dame have been matched up, there always seems to be a little more of a bu:t.z," Brey said. "If'it's soccer, if it's volleyball, women's basketball, hockey. I just feel a lit­tin more juice around that. 
"There's some excitement from both fans bases when both these great institutions play." 
Notre Dame and Mkhigan will tip oft' at 2 p.m. on Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 


Badgers 
continued from page 24 
two straight road games against the Midwest confer­ence. Notre Dame faces Purdue on Wednesday, as well. 
The Irish come off a 7 4-55 win against lona at the Joyce Center on Tuesday, a game they won without head coach Muffet McGraw. McGraw stayed home with an illness, and associate head coach Coquese Washington led the team in her place. Washington is a 1992 graduate of Notre Dame, where she played bas­ketball as well, and has been an assistant coach since 1999. 
Washington said Thursday afternoon that she was unsure if McGraw would be healthy enough to coach the Irish for Sunday's game, and that it would be a "day-to-day" situa­tion. 
But Washington acknowl­edged the Badgers would be a tough opponent, playing in the Big Ten. 
"The Big Ten and the Big East are both quality confer­ences," Washington said. "Anytime you play a Big Tlm team, you know you're going to have a competitive game." 
In 2003, the last time these two teams met, the Irish came out on top at the Joyce Center 82-64, behind 25 points from Megan Duffy and 22 points from Courtney LaVere. 
The two players are now the co-captains of this year's Irish squad, both as seniors. 
Meanwhile, the Badgers are led by sophomore guard Jolene Anderson, who won gold this summer, like Duffy, playing for a United States team. Anderson played for the U-19 World Championship Team, while Duffy won gold with the World University Games Team. 
Last weekend, Anderson, who is averaging 16.4 points, 
5.4 rebounds, 4 assists and 2.2 steals per game, and fnllow guard .Ianese Banks were named all-tournamnnt at the Hainbow Wahini Classic in Honolulu, Hawaii, where the Badgnrs rnachnd the champi­onship final. There they lost to Big East member No. 17 DePaul, 76-57. 
And the Badgers have a quick turnaround before the Irish come to town. Tonight they face another Big East team, Marquette, at the Kohl Center before facing Notre Dame on Sunday. 
Washington said she expeets to face a tough Wisconsin team at a place that draws well for women's basketball. And as a result, she wants Notre Damn to have a better first half than it did against lona, when tlw Irish led just 36-28 against the Gaels. 
"We want to open up a little stronger than we did against lona," Washington said. "Playing on thn road is tough. They'vn got a great anma and pretty good fan support. But I'm hoping we can come out with a lot of energy and get on the boards." 
Tipotr is set for 1 :30 p.m. on Sunday in Madison, Wise . 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Thursdagp December I 
-5:00pm -Texas A&M vs. Northwestern 
Match i! -7:00pm -Dayton vs. # 6 l\lotre Dame 
Round i! -Fridagp December i! Match 3 7:00pm -6ame 1 Winner vs. 6ame i! Winner 
Fir!it 100 t=ans on both days will receive a fiee i!Ooz Coke Zero and a !illce ot= Papa .lohn"s pizza compliment!i ot= Coca-Cola 
Free Admission for first 100 1\10, !iMI:, and Hl:l: !itudents 
page 22 Friday, December 2, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 

have moved on to play in the slotted into a bowl game (this Nittany Lions defeated Ohio issues it might have. That very championship game," said BCS year, the Big 10 and Big East) State, and their only loss came rarely happens, but there is a
BCS 
coordinator and Big 12 commis­and any at-large team that has on a last-second touchdown on procedure that allows it to hap­
continued from page 24 
into the Jan. 2 Tostitos Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Ariz. 
The Bowl Championship Series (BCS) selection committee -comprised of all11 Division I­A conference commissioners and Notre Dame commission­er/athletic director Kevin White -will announce its pairings for the Rose, Fiesta, Orange and Sugar bowls in a conference call on Sunday at 6 p.m. 
But the BCS matchups cannot be finalized until teams com­plete their schedules on Saturday. 
When the selection committee slots teams for the BCS bowls on Sunday, the committee first will assign conference champions to the bowls with an affiliation to their respective conferences ­these are referred to as "host teams" for the bowl games. 
So, under the current BCS arrangement, the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) champion ­the winner of the Virginia Tech­Florida State game (8 p.m., ABC) -will automatically host the FedEx Orange Bowl in Miami, Fla. 
The Southeastern Conference champion -the winner of the LSU-Georgia game (6 p.m., CBS) -will receive an automatic bid to the Nokia Sugar Bowl in Atlanta, Ga. 
And normally, the Big 12 champion would host the Fiesta Bowl. But if Texas wins Saturday, the Longhorns go to the national championship game and leave the Fiesta without a host team. 
"We then go into the process of replacing the host teams that sioner Kevin Weiberg in a tele­conference Wednesday. 
This means that with four BCS bowl slots remaining -two taken by the Rose Bowl and three by conference champions -the Fiesta Bowl would receive first pick among the remaining bowls, even though the pre­arranged pecking order is Orange, Fiesta then Sugar. 
Three Fiesta Bowl representa­tives were present at the Notre Dame-Stanford game on Saturday, and the Fiesta has made no secret that the Irish are a prime candidate for an early BCS selection. 
But Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said he will not be rooting for any team Saturday despite the Fiesta hype. 
"I only cheer for us;" Weis said in a teleconference Thursday, "because I don't think it's really good to be cheering against anyone or for somebody. I feel pretty good about our chances of getting a bid to the BCS, and we'll just let it play out. Whatever it is, it is." 
Decisions, decisions 
Texas beat Colorado soundly, 42-17, on Oct. 15, but a Longhorn victory on Saturday is not guaranteed. If Texas loses, the Orange Bowl gets the first pick as prearranged. 
But whichever bowl picks first will have the option of taking Notre Dame, Penn State, Ohio State, Oregon, Auburn or West Virginia with its first selection ­or, as Weiberg said, "any avail­able team that is eligible." · 
The category of "eligible" teams includes conference champions not automatically 
met the BCS' criteria of nine wins and a top 12 final BCS rank (also includes Miami and UCLA, at present). Only two at­large teams will be selected for BCS bowls since Penn State (Big 10 champion) and West Virginia (Big East champion) are guaran­teed berths. 
To select, each BCS bowl gives the committee a list of prefer­ences that must include any conference champion with auto­matic qualification that hasn't been slotted. If there are no con­flicts, the teams are slotted to their respective bowls accord­ingly. 
If there are conflicts, the pre­arranged order of Orange, Fiesta, Sugar goes into effect. But a Texas win also would give the Fiesta first pick, as well, rearranging the order to Fiesta, Orange, Fiesta, Sugar. 
Notre Dame did its part Saturday in a 38-31 win at Stanford. The Irish (9-2) earned their ninth win and finished at No. 8, pending Saturday's games, in the BCS standings. 
"There's no other team that I think should represent their own school and college football in general than this team right here," Notre Dame wide receiv­er Jeff Samardzija said after the win at Stanford. 
Critics have been debating that point for weeks. 
Why Notre Dame? 
Penn State (10-1; No. 3 BCS) and Ohio State (9-2; No. 6 BCS), considered at-large teams in years when the Rose Bowl hosts the national championship game, have similar or better records than the Irish. The the road to Michigan (No. 19). 

Ohio State's only losses were to Penn State and Texas, two top-three BCS opponents, and the Buckeyes are ranked higher than No. 8 Notre Dame in the BCS standings. So is Oregon (1 0­1), ranked No. 7 in the BCS. 
But Weiberg said teams with better records sometimes fall beneath others simply in accor­dance with the BCS system and selection process. 
"I understand that there's still intense competition for those positions and that teams with very good records don't always get selected," he said. ''I've had them from my own conference [the Big 12] over the years, but I think it's really part and parcel of the bowl process. And I think the BCS has been of assistance in bringing some order to that selection process." 
Bowls evaluate a team's per­formance when they make their selections, but the committees also take into account a team's marketability, specifically to its local fan base, to sell tickets. 
The Fiesta Bowl is certainly not looking for a repeat of last year's 35-7 rout of Utah against Pittsburgh. And even if the bowl selections do not turn out to suit everyone's needs, Weiberg pointed out that there is a review process. 
"At that point there is a review of the pairings to see if there is a need to make an adjustment in the pairings," Weiberg said. "Normally that is not the case. But we do have a procedure where we allow ABC television, our current television partner, to also commet on the pairings and bring forward any pen." 
Quite simply, regardless of whether or not conferences cry foul at the notion that Notre Dame could be selected above teams ranked higher in the BCS, the Irish are qualified under the current BCS arrangement, and bowls have the ultimate say concerning teams' destinations. 
What about USC? 
USC is the Pac-1 0 champion, though it still has to play UCLA on Saturday (4:30 p.m., ABC). With a win, Southern California advances to the national cham­pionship. With a loss, the Trojans could fall out and leave room for Penn State to slide into the Rose Bowl. 
Unlike the Big 10-which lost affiliation to a specific bowl this season -the Pac-10 champion is slated to appear in the Fiesta Bowl this year, unless that team goes to the national champi­onship game. 
A USC loss, then, forces the Trojans into the Fiesta Bowl. But as long as Texas wins, Notre Dame still has a chance at play­ing in Tempe, because Texas is the host team. A USC Rose Bowl bid does not affect the Fiesta Bowl's selection order. It only opens a slot for a conference champion or at-large team to slide in. 
Will it be Notre Dame? 

"I know who has all the picks," Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis said in a Thursday press conference. "I just don't know who's picking us." 
Contact Pat Leonard at 
pleonard@nd.edu 




THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME WASHINGTON PROGRAM 


,_.---------------------------------------------------------­
----~-----~--­
Friday, December 2, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ERIK POWERS and ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 


ADAM FAIRHOLM 
\ S\o\oULl> \o-\P..,\IE 
f12..~f'A.(_E{) \HAT ~'( SA'\ ti'H:t \\ 14 ~~ Nd\\-\ \tH::{
f"ot(. -mE 
JUMBLE 

J]~~[E.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DABIE
I 

1 
rJ 

102005 Tribune Media Se!Vices, Inc. 
i~~r·r J 
tSIMPOE 

J [] 
www.jumble.com 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


-
WHAT THf: OIL-MAN e=NOE:O UP WITH 
WHEN HE: STR.UC.K IT R.IC.H. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car-



CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 26 Opening words 48 Eh of the Beatles' 
50 Western ring1 Lummox "We Can Work 51 Pole, for one

8 He prophesied II Out" the destruction 52 Pa Clampett
27 Patisserie output of Jerusalem player on TV 
28 "Ditto" 13 Draw 

53 Tile piece29 Unlikely loser 15 Its chief town is 30 Reflexologist's Scarborough target 
DOWN 
1 Book with 15016 Come before 33 Ramshackle chaptersresidence17 El Alamein 2 When twobattle 34 Bombs hands meetcommander 35 Stowe slave 3 Peruvian, e.g.
18 Cuts off the 36 Checked out 4 Brief bid back 37 Run smoothly 5 They're19 Ireland's 
Valera stacked
41 Quinces, e.g.21 Seat of White 6 Org. that42 It has 720 hrs.

Pine County, 

provides R.V. Nev. 43 You can bet on hookups it
22 One beginning? 7"1'11 wait" 44 Sphere, say
23 Illegal firing 8 It has a bright 45 Cry of side 24 Free of excess accomplishment 
9 Tech stockmatter 

46 Divider of option 28 Table in old 33 Apply by 41 One who 25 Cone head? Nebraska Rome repeated small handles stress
10 Highest peak on touches effectively?

Africa's west 29 Uses a tap,ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
coast perhaps 36 Newspaper div. 42 Galleria array 
11 A casino may 30 Development 37lmpish 44 Novelist Barstow have one area expression of 45 General delight chicken
12 Lama, e.g. 31 50 Cent and 14 Fluctuating others 38 Flap 47 Bond fortunes 32 Politely got rid 39 Workshop of 49 24-Down, 15 Suffix of Hephaestus across the Alps associated with accelerators 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 20 Stampede credit card, 1-800-814-5554. sound 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

~~~m:t!:l]E ~+=+:-1-::i-1--=+-=+:::-~ 23 Dilettantish 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000

.;,.+.=+:::+=-t 24 A fifth of quinze 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).26 Cross 
=+=+::+-::-i Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young __..._..._.....__, 27 "Grab _!" solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Carol All, 45; Brad Delson, 28; Belle Midler, 60; Richard Pryor, 65 
Happy llirthday: All your efforts may be lost ifyou have been intent on getting others to do things for you. Consider how much further ahead you'd be ifyou just did things yourself. Now get to it and don't stop until you arc satisfied with what you've accomplished. Your success will reflect your own abilities. Your numbers are 9, 23, 27, 29, 32, 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 9): Today is the day to get out and have fun. Make plans and don't spare any expense. Meeting people will lead to interesting conversations and inspiring new ideas. Make a personal change that will improve your daily attitude. • • • • • TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Don't lend or borrow or buy into somcone's sob story. Get-rich-quick schemes will not pan out the way you expect. Someone is likely to try to collect an old debt. ••• GEMINI (May 21-.lunc 20): Don't count on anyone for help--you will fret les~ and get more done. A challenge will remind you how capable you arc. You should come out on top financially and emotionally. ••• CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): You may wonder a bit today, especially ifyou have concerns about a loved one. Concentrate on what needs to be done. What you accomplish today will determine what the people around you feel you arc capable of doing. ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This is not the time to let other people decide things that might aiTect your future. Entertain whoever you need on your side in order to further your position. •• •• • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Partnerships arc unstable and it may he necessary to stop seeing someone who has been making your life difficult. Protect yourself first. A love intere~t looks very interesting. • • LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): This is a day to enforce some rules, regulations or changes at a personal level. You will have the upper hand and can win the suppon ofanyone who counts. Social events will help enhance your public profile. • ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't tlum out work you should be doing yourself. Break what you need to do into sections, stick to your budget and get things done properly. A little notoriety will generate interest in your work. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-l>cc. 21): Not everyone will understand you today. Be explicit in your definition. Once you clarity your position, it will be easy to get things underway. • • • CAPRICORN (l>ec. 22-Jan. 19): You can charm your way into anyone's heart today. A short trip will enable you to finalize something that's been left dangling. Refuse to disagree with anyone who tries to upset you. ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be afraid to make a change or to go in a different direction. Take the road you know will teach you the most along the way. It's time to show everyone how proficient you can be. •• • • PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): For every step you take forward you can expect someone to push you back. Watch out for people trying to outdo you or make you look bad. If you make a promise, be sure to follow through. • • 
Birthday Baby: You have plenty of pizzazz, but it's your resourcefulness and adaptability that will lead to your success. You push yourself to the limit and stop at nothing. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforjim, eugenialast.comfor confulential consll/tation' 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people an~ events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name~------------------------------------------­
Address _____________________________________ City ____________ State ____ Zip______ 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, December 2, 2005 
-
FOOTBALL ANALYSIS 
Shaking down the BCS 
Irish may be bound for warmer weather 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Can Notre Dame root for a Texas victory? Perhaps for one afternoon. 
If Texas beats Colorado in the Big 12 championship game this Saturday (1 
"'--p.m., ABC), the See Also Longhorns will advance to the "Committed national 
recruits arrive 

championship 
for Banquet"

game in the Rose Bowl. page 18 That would open a slot for an at-large team, possibly Notre Dame, to slip 
see BCS/ page 22 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish survive near first-round upset 
she smiled and pumped her 
By TOM DORWART 
fists. "How's that for an opening Sports Writer 
statement?" With the win, the Irish 
Helieved and excited, Irish advance to tonight's second players Meg Henican, Adrianna round match against Stasiuk, Lauren Brewster and Northwestern. The Wildcats coach Debbie Brown took their (20-11) eliminated Texas A&M seats in the interview room (16-14) 30-26, 20-30, 28-30, after a dogfight of a match 30-27, 15-12 in the first match against the Dayton Flyers in the of the evening. opening round of the NCAA Notre Dame's match started tournament -a 30-21, 30-25, more than an hour late, but the 26-30, 28-30, 15-13 marathon Irish found a rhythm early. victory for the No. 7 Irish (29-They jumped to an all too 3). 
"We're alive," Brown said as see ADVANCE/page 21 page 24 

BARAKA BOUTS 
Wo:m_en's .fights will start today 
Boxing tournament raises money to help East African missions 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
They won't be pulling any punches Sunday. 
After nearly three months of training up to six days a week, the fighters of the Notre Dame Women's Boxing Club will don their trunks and robes in the second annual Baraka 'Bouts to raise money for Holy Cross edu­cation missions in East Africa. 
"We began our novice training the first full week of classes," club co-president Anne Kwiatt said. "In those two weeks, all the new boxers were able to begin their training and learn the fun­damentals of boxing." 
Kwiatt and fellow co-president Courtney Cleary have led the club's 34 boxers all semester with daily two-hour workouts Monday through Friday and Saturday afternoon, training in preparation for Sunday's 1 p.m. bouts. 
"To get in shape for the box­ing, it takes a lot of cardio-aero­bic work," Kwiatt said. "Pretty much since the first week of school we've been training." 
Boxers must attend at least four practices a week to remain eligible to fight, Cleary said. 
"The girls are looking good; we're really proud of what they've done," Cleary said. 
see BOUTS/page 21 

N D BASKETBALL 
Teams take on Big Ten opponents in weekend match ups 
Men host Wolverines at Joyce on Saturday 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said his team needs to establish center Torin Francis in the post Saturday against Michigan in order to bounce back from its 13­point loss to North Carolina State last weekend. 
The Irish looked to Francis early on against the Wolf'pack on Nov. 
see MICHIGAN/page 21 


Women tip offagainst Badgers in Madison 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame (5-0) hits the road Sunday to face the first of its next two Big Ten opponents, games that should help it pre­pare for Big East conference play which begins in January. 
The No. 12 Irish face Wisconsin (4-1) in the first of 
see BADGERS/page 21 

en 
SMC BASKETBALL 
ND TRACK &FIELD 
ND SWIMMING 
NFL

HOCKEY 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Co) 

Irish Invitational 
Western Michigan
Blue and Gold 
Bruins' defense

Saint Marts at 
PI;Peoff outlook 
z North Par 
Invitational 

at Notre Dame 
di ers from 2004 
prepares for Bush 
Loftus, 5 p.m.
::5

li: w 
The Irish men and

The Belles look to 
Butler and DePaul 

The Eagles and the 
UCLA is the only

The Irish play two
Cl 

women lead their
right the ship on their 1­
will compete in Notre 

Seahawks have different 
thing that stands

games at home against
respective fields going
c:c 

4 start against the 
Dame's first meet of the 

playoff hopes than last 
between the Trojans and 

Western Michigan this
into the second day of
a.. !:;: Vikings. 
season. 
season. 
the Rose Bowl.

weekend.
the three-day meet. 
en 
page 20 
page 20 
page 19 

page 17 
page 15
page 18 







