
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Committee selection starts provost search 

Jenkins, five faculty members, one student assemble to find Hatch's successor 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
Nt·ws Editor 
Notre Damn took its first ol'licial stnp towards hiring a nnw provost Tuesday when thn University's Academic Council s'nlectnd a seven­member committee to direct thn search process. 
Chaired by University l'n~sidnnt-nleet Father John Jenkins, tho committee is now charged with finding the succnssor to current Provost 

SMC grad oversees tnajor trial 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Assistalll Nt•ws Editor 

llnitnd Statns District Court .Judge and Saint Mary's alumna l>nnise Cotn will makn history oncn again during thn rwxt few months whiln prnsiding ovnr the WorldCom accounting fraud trial in Manhattan, ono of thn largest nvnr security easns. 
Cotn, 5!{, sot tho tono for tlu~ high profilE~ court battle 1~arly in prl'trial hearings by ordering sdtlnnwnt nngotia­tions to bngin just onn month al'tt1r tho lead plain­til'l', thn Nnw York State Common Hntirnrnt1nt Fund, filnd its class action corn­plaint. Sho also limited each sidn (,() days to prnsont their depositions. 
see COTE/page 4 
Nathan llatch, who will leave development of the Notre Dame July 1 to become University's academic affairs. the presi­
Hatch, who dent of took over the Wake Forest post in 1996, University in is the third Winston­person to Salem, N.C. serve as 
T h e provost since provost, the the office second­was created ranking offi-in 1970. cer in the Hatch Jenkins After a Notre Dame "cumber­administration, oversees the some" process that required direction, coordination and each of the 46 voting 
Academic Council members to nominate three candidates for the search committee, the council chose five faculty members and one student, said Jean Ann Linney, vice president and associate provost. 
The committee will immedi­ately open a "full and exten­sive" search for both internal and external candidates for the post, but must be careful to keep those candidates' identities confidential, Linney said. 
NANNY LIT 

Writers Nicola Kraus, sitting left, and Emma Mclaughlin, sitting right, chat with students and sign copies of their book, 'The Nanny Diaries,' Tuesday. The event was part of the 38th ­annual Notre Dame Literary Festival which runs through Thursday and features distin­guished writers. 
Study abroad decisions etninent 
Students wait, hope for acceptance letters to most popular programs 
By PETER LEAHY Nt·ws Writt•r 

l'or most studnnts who a p pI itHI to Notre Darn n 's study abroad programs, the wait is almost ovor. 
Within tlw nnxt few days, studPnts who applind to the most popular programs­l.ondon. Dublin. Australia, Italy, Spain or Franco­should rncnivo a dncision rngarding thnir applications. 
l>irPetor of lntnrnational Study Programs Thomas Bogensehild said students 
who applied to the most pop­ular programs will receive noticn before the less popu­lar programs. 
"We tend to focus on the programs that arn most high­ly subscribed," he said. "About 70 perennt of appli­cants lwill f'ind outl at once." 
Bogensehild said tho over­whelming number or appli­cants caused a delay in noti­l'ications, which originally were supposed to bH sent last week. 
"It's a long process lol'l 1,300 applications that you have to road, and we only have a starr of six," he said. 
Bogenschild said financial reasons delayed the decisions as well. 
"The Board of' Trustees met 
on  the 4th Iandi it's  a  week  
later so  we  need t()  accom­ 
modate  our  load to  budget  
rnalitios," he said.  

Students are eager to l'ind out whether they will be spending next year at Note Dame or overseas. 
Sophomore Emily Kane, who applied to Dublin and Australia, expressed doubt 
see ABROAD/page 4 
"One of the challengns in a committee like this ... is that any candidate wn look at already has a pretty big job," she said. "The committno members have to do most of' their work out of the publie eye." 
They will also have to do their work quickly. 
The University would like to find a new provost "as soon as possible without sacrific­ing the depth and quality ol' 
see SEARCH/page 6 

Grad prep underw-ay oncam_pus 
By JARRETT LANTZ 
News Writer 
With graduation just thrnn months away, many bnhind-tlw­scnnes groundwork l'or t~om­inencmnnnt arn alrnady undl'r­way at Saint Mary's and Notrn Dame. 
Seniors busy with rtisunuis and job snarches now havt1 added senior week preparation and graduation anticipation to tlwir sdwdules. 
Members of this year's gradu­ating elass at both schools havn numerous requirements to com­plete in order to makn their· May cornmnncement cern­monies a success. Each snnior, among other tasks, must ordnr and mail invitations, rnsnr·vp eernmony ticknts and have caps and gowns fittod. 
Traditionally, studnnts at 
see PREP/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 16, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE BOOK? 

Hefty eaters unite 
Let's all take a moment, if you will, to recognize those among us who possess the incredible ability to out-eat everyone around us. 
I used to be kind of embarrassed about this, but then I realized Christie ~;Jolsen that it should be a ·source of 
Assistant

pride, because 
Scene Editor 

then all of us hefty eaters could band together and eat pans of brownies. Last week I was at Boracho Burrito, reveling in my spectacular ability to eat an entire two-pound burrito in one sitting, so I went over to my friends at another table to brag about my stunning accom­plishment. After making my announcement, I discovered that everyone at their table had already done the same thing, even my skin­ny friend Mary. 
People who eat too much aren't always so accepted, though. Maybe you've gone to CJ's and the rest of your friends were talking about how they couldn't finish their giant burgers, just as you were handing your empty plate back to the wait­ress and asking them if they were going to finish their fries. Also, maybe sometimes other people will want to dance at the Backer, and nobody keeps you company as you slowly edge toward the popcorn machine, just to tide you over until you can convince everyone to go to IIIOP. 
Luckily we live in a society today where girls aren't really expected to survive on salad and carrot sticks, although we still have a long way to go before we achieve eat­ing-expectations equality. Going out to dinner with someone can be an internal struggle, because the truly hefty eaters always have the uncontrollable urge to cash jn on free food, but most of us want to win people over with our sparkling personalities and not our horrifying intake of breadsticks. When an appetizer intended to serve a party of six is mere child's play, some­times you prefer dining with your closest friends who are required to like you anyway. 
With the Lenten season upon us and Spring Break lurking around the corner, sometimes it's easy to revert back to feelings of guilt a; a hefty eater, when it seems like everyone else is swearing off chocolate or trying out Atkin's for bikini season. Don't let remorse get you down, though. I used to count calories in high school, but then I finished my math require­ment during my first semester in college and forgot how to add up numbers. I ·can assure you that it is a liberating experience to have no idea how fat you are getting. · So if you're almost done with your Breakfast Sampler plate before your friends have finished stirring Equal into their coffee, please come over and we can hang out. Hefty eaters will always be accepted in my presence. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Christie Boisen at christie.b. bolsen.l @nd. edu 






TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a: 
1.1.1 
:::c 

!;;: 
1.1.1 

3: 
..... 
<C 
(.)


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
0 

HIGH 34
..... 
LOW 19 
Atlanta 71 I 51 Boston 49 I 39 Chicago 46 I 27 Denver 40 I 26 Houston 77 I 61 Los Angeles 65 I 52 Minneapolis 31 1 16 New York 56 I 41 Philadelphia 58 I 40 Phoenix 71 I 54 Seattle 47 I 29 St. Louis 58 I 35 Tampa 78 I 58 Washington 63146 
Alexandra Pennington  Caitlin White  Packy Cain  Peter Hadley  Rosa Jimenez  Sheena Bowman  
junior Pasquerilla East  sophomore Badin  sophomore Stanford  freshman Carroll  junior Lewis  junior Breen-Phillips  
"'Little Women,' 'nough said. "  "'Into Thin Air' by John Krakaur. It's about climbing Mt.  ":Monster Blood II [Goosebumps]. ' I enjoyed the character  "The Bible, because I'm holy like that. "  "I can't think of one because I have yet to read a good math book."  '"A Tale ofTwo Cities' because they chop people's heads off"  

Everest. It's a development true story-and the short very exciting. , chapters." 

IN BRIEF 
Campus faith group Four:7 will hold a meeting of interde­nominational praise, worship, seripture and reflection tonight in the Coleman-Morse Lounge from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. The event is sponsored by Campus Ministry. 
Hon Koperski from Bradley University will be giving a lee­tum on "Sports and the Media: An Examination of the Ethical Elements" at 12:30 p.m. Thursday in Giovanni Commons in Mendoza. The leeture is part of the Mendoza College of Business' Ethics Week. 
Former WWE superstar and aeclaimed author Mick Foley will present "An Evening With Mick Foley" Thursday as part of thn 2005 Notre Dame Literary Festival. The presentation will begin at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Father Joseph Komonchak from the Catholic University of America will be giving a lecture entitled "Vatican II: Historical Relevance for 21st Century Believers" at 7:30 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall at Saint Mary's on Thursday. The lecture is spon­sored by the Center for Spirituality. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies will be spon­soring the 2002 Irish film "Bloody Sunday" as a part of its "European Cinemas, European Histories" series. The film will be shown at 10 p.m. at ND Cinema in the Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
OFFBEAT 

Artist hits road to eat meal with ... you 
NEW YORK-A phone message to the nation: Please call 510-872-7326, Marc Horowitz wants to meet you for dinner. 
Go ahead -dial it. If he doesn't answer, just leave him a message. That's what thousands of people have done after seeing his num­ber scrawled on a dry-erase board in a Crate & Barrel catalog photo last fall. 
Horowitz, a conceptual artist in San Francisco, was working as a photo assistant on a shoot for the catalog when he came up with an idea for an art project that would question social barri­ers and maybe make the world a little smaller. 
The dry-erase board looked too blank, so he decided to write his cell phone number on it -and, if anyone called, maybe take a road trip to meet them. 
"It's about illuminating the importance of conversation between strangers," Horowitz said. "We just plug into our computers and think that's the way to live, but old-fashioned face to face is what it's about." 
Intruder found at the piano 
NEW RIEGEL, Ohio -The police chief woke up in the middle of the night to discov­er a man playing Beethoven on his piano. 
Chief Steve Swartzmiller ­grabbed his gun and went to investigate the noise. He found 19-year-old Shawn Chadwell drunk at the key­board. 
Swartzmiller said Chad­well had been looking for a friend's house when he mis­takenly wandered in. He was charged with underage drinking and burglary. 
The chief added that Chadwell played perfect Beethoven. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

30 15 

25 
17 

35 18 

34 
18 

HIGH LOW 

~ 
! 
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Food services director vvins culinary avvard 
Prentkowski honored at international level 
Special to the Ohserver arn: strong leadership in food 
quality and menu, creation of 
David H. l'rnntkowski, dirnc­successful employee training tor of' food serviens at Notro programs and providing supe­Damn, has bonn awarded the rior earner development prestigious lntnrnational opportunities, utilization of l<'oodsnrvien Manufacturers strong l'inaneial and opera­Association's IIFMA) Silver tional management techniques, .l'lall~ Award in the eolloge and promotion of' the food service univnrsity division. lin will be industry, and eommunity serv­honon~d at tlw IFMA's 51st ico. annual <;old arid Silvnr Plate "People in the industry oftcm Cnlebration on May 23rd say that Dave is a progressive IMondayl at the Slwraton llotnl thinker who has created and Towers in Chkago. numerous benchmarks for 
The Silvnr and Gold Plate excellence," said one nomina­Awards are considnrnd the tor about l'rentkowski. highest honors in the food A native of South Bend, servic:n industry. An inde­l'rentkowski was appointed pendent jury solnets Silver Notre Damn's director of food PI ate winrwrs who arn out­serviens in 1990 arter previ­standing oporators in nine eat­ously directing food service egorins based upon nomina­opnrations for ~he University of tions from eolleagues, supplinr­Utah and the University of partrw rs, and employees. Michigan's housing division. Tlw jury will announce one lie holds bachelor's and mas­Silvnr Plate honorne as the ter's degrees in restaurant, (;old l'latn winnm at thn award hotel, and institutional man­celebration. agement from Purdue 
The criteria for the awards University. 
JAPAN 



World unites to control clitnate 
glaciers, raising ocean levels The Clinton administration
Associated Press and threatening dramatic and si~,rned the protocol in I 997, but TOKYO -Two centuries after potentially damaging climate thn U.S. Snnate rnfused to ratify the dawn of the industrial age, change in the future. it. citing potcmtial damage~ to thn the world on Wodnosday took its "The tools for keeping dimato U.S. oeonomy and insisting that first concerted step to roll back chango under control, such as it also eover countrins with fast­the emission of renowabln growing economies such as "grnenhouse gases" e n e r g y China and India. believed linked to sources and "We have bonn calling on tho
"There is now a price
climate chango energy efTi­Unitnd States to join. But tlw with the enactment on climate dnncy meas­country that is tlw world's of the Kyoto global pollution and ures, arn biggost emitter has not joirwd warming pact. developed yet, and that is rngrnttable,"
penalties for
The agreement, and ready to Japan's top government negotiated in polluters. " use," said spokesman, Chid Cabinot Japan's ancient Groen peace Sncrntary lliroyuki llosoda. told capital of' Kyoto in International rnportors.
Stephanie Tunmore 
1997 and ratified official In .Japan, the host to tho IIJ97
Greenpeace International 
by 140 nations, Stephanie conference and a tirnless sup­
official
calls on 35 industri-Tun morn. portnr of tho pact, tho enact­alized countries to "There is mont was being mot with a mix­rein in the release now a price ture of pride and mounting of carbon dioxide and five other on climate pollution and penal­worry that the world's second­gases from the burning of oil ties for polluters. The switch to largnst economy is unprnparml and eoal and other processes. a carbon economy begins here." to meet its emission reduction 
Its impact, however, will be Implementation of tho agree­targets. limited by the absence of the ment was delayed\ by a struggle Under Kyoto, the targnl'i vary United States, the world's leader to meet the requirement that by rngion: Thn Europc~an Union in greenhouse gas emissions. countries accounting for 55 per­is cornmittnd to cutting emis­
Proponents say the stakes are cent of the world's emissions sicms to 8 pnrcnnt below 1 91JO high: the gases are believed to ratify it. That goal was reached levels by 20 12; the United Statns trap heat in the atmosphere, last year _ nearly seven years agrned to a 7 percnnt rnduc.tion contributing to rising global after the paet had bonn negoti­before President Bush temperatures that are melting ated -with Russia's approval. denounced the pad in 2001. 
NORTH KOREA 

Leader celebrates 63rd birthday despite nuclear tensions 
Associated Press North Korea flaunted the will secretary of the Workers' Party Donald II. Humsf'eld, Ban also the Kimjongilia -a flower culti­
of the international community Central Committee, according to nxplained the importance of the vated to blossom around Kim's 
SEOUL -North Korea marked last week by announeing it had the North's official Korean construction of a joint economic birthday. the (drd birthday of its "dear nuc~lear weapons and was stay­Central News Agency. zone in Kaesong in North Korea, Ahead of tho holiday, the leadnr" Kim .long II on ing away from international Meanwhile, South Korean which he said was only in the North's state. media has been Wedrwsday with feasts of pheas­nuelear talks where China, foreign Minister Ban Ki-moon pilot stage. filled with daims of Kim's birth­ant and vnnison for the capital's Japan, Hussia, South Korea and said Wednesday that he has told "We don't have any plans to day bning celebrated across the elite amid heightennd tnnsion on the United States all urged it to U.S. ollkials that his country has launch large scale inter-Korean world, from Bangladesh to the Koman peninsula after the abandon its atomic weapons no plans to begin "large-scale" economic cooperation" as the France, Poland to Pakistan. communist statn dedarnd it had development. eeonomie cooperation with the North Korean nuelear issue is Kim's regimn toleratns no dis­nudnar weapons and would boy­North Korean ollieials herald­North before the dispute over the yet to be resolved, Ban told snnt, and has isolatod itsolf from cott disarmanwnt talks. ed Kim's birthday with more nuclear weapons programs is reporters Wednesday. the world behind the last stand­
Kim's birthday is a national defiant rhetoric at a meeting resolved. North Korean public trans­ing Cold War frontier that divides holiday in thn communist statn, Tuesday of' top communist party Ban, who returned from a portation will operate late until it from the eapitalist South. and ft~stivitios for residents of members and military oflicors. wneklong trip to Washington, 10 p.m., the North's TV said, to There worn reports last year Pyongyang -the chostm elito "If the U.S. recklessly opts for a said South Korea would continue ensure birthday celebrations that some of Kim's portraits had allowed to live thMn only by war of aggression despite the to provide fertilizer and rice to aren't cut short. Parks and other been removed from public: build­IJC'ing approved as loyal citizens repeated warning of the (North), the poverty-stricken state out of cultural facilities will be free of ings, suggesting possible cracks to the reginw -also were to our army and people will mobi­"humanitarian concern" despite charge, and traditional food such in his hold on pownr, but South indude perfor:rnances by circus lize all potentials ... and deal North Korea's recent statement as cold noodles and aleohol will Korean ollieials have insisted tlw and tlwator troupos, tho North's mc1rciless crushing blows at the that it has nuclear weapons. also be served. North's government is nowhorn statn-run TV reported. Tm1sday aggressors and achieve a final In meetings with U.S. In the run-up to Wndnesday's near eollapsn and warnnd that evening, monitored by South vktory in the confrontation with Secretary of State Condeleezza celebration, thorn have also been such talk eould push Pyongyang Korea's Yonhap news agency. the U.S.," said Choe Thae Bok, a Hice and U.S. Defense Secretary festivals across the country of to despnratn moves. 

The Student International Business Council invites you to a group recently created to assist the country of 



Romania 
The group will establish a school in Romania teaching local entrepreneurs essential business skills necessary to bring their products to market. 
If you have an interest in developing valuable business skills while working toward a worthy goal, or simply in helping those most in need, we encourage you to join. Students from all majors are welcome! 
Contacts: Susan Kippels [skippels@nd.edu) Project Leader 
Patrick Rlveron [priveron@nd.edu) Director, Global Development 
Student International Business Council 
"Peace through Commerce" 



Want to write for News? Call Claire at 1-5323 for more 
Wednesday, Febraury 16, 2005 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Prep 
continued from page 1 
Saint Mary's b~gin graduation preparations in February by ordering their caps and gowns. 
"This year, however, the schedule was pushed up because of the inauguration of Dr. Mooney," said Bob DeZenzo, Saint Mary's bookstore-manag­er. "We ordered in October and the students and faculty had their r~galia by December 1." 
Saint Mary's students must still order their invitations. Each graduating woman receives generic announce­ments at no charge, or she can choose a personalized announcement for a fee with her name and degree. 
Th~ eommencmnent proceed­ings at Saint Mary's are a com­munity effort, with each cam­pus group-such as security or food services -assuming spe­cific tasks. The Ollice of Special Events commencement commit­tee oversees each group to make sure that work between them is running smoothly. This committee, chaired by the Assistant to the President, includes members from campus groups as well as a student rep­resentative. While Saint Mary's women are well on their way in planning their May ceremony, members of Notre Dame's graduating class have yet to receive details regarding their commencement.. 
"''ve received no information on graduation preparation or when we're supposed to have anything done," Keenan fifth­year Tim Gibeau said. "I think a lot of the seniors feel in the dark. All we know is that we graduate on May 15." Although some seniors might be feeling nervous about the lack of concrete details, the Oflice of the Registrar says information is on its way. 
According to the registrar, Notre Dame students can access a detailed schedule of com­mencement events through the office's Web site by the end of this week. Each senior will receive a packet with important information regarding the fit­ting or caps and gowns, invita­tions and ticket requests before spring break. 
Contact Jarrett Lantz at jlantz2@nd.edu 


Sclnday March 20 •7:30 p.m. Morris Performing Arts Center SCKJth Bend, Indiana 
Tickvts Go On Salv ((ff' This Saturday ~_J) February 19 · at 10:00 a.m.! 
Tk:kvts avoilabhr at Morris Box Office ChGrge by phone 574/Z35-9190 or 800/537-6415 on-line Gt www.morriscenter.org 
.d./2j
C!?-·-rtol/uJ'
-·---·,,..·-·--¥ 
New York area, Cote ruled dence in her abilities," clothing companies were Obermaier told The New
Cote 
responsible for ensuring York Times. "She didn't continued from page 1 their subcontraetors pay bring every detail to me. I 
their employees legal work­felt comfortable in delegat­
The case, whieh includes ing wages including over­ing to her enormous prominent defendants such time pay. The decision amount of responsibility." as auditor Arthur Anderson impacted the Legal strug­and investment banks J.P. entire clothing gles surround­Morgan Chase and industry, forcing "She didn't bring ing WorldCom Deutsche Bank, originally contractors to were set into
every detail to me.
involved 42 class-action monitor working motion in 2002 suits which have since been conditions clos­I felt comfortable in when the com­consolidated into one. The er. delegating to her pany filed for ease is scheduled to begin The New York bankruptcy,
enormous amounts
Feb. 28. Times, in a Jan. making
ofresponsibility. " 
Since being nominated to 30 article titled WorldCom the the United States District "The Sisterhood largest compa­Court in 1994 by former Judging Otto Obermaier ny ever to do President Bill Clinton, Cote WorldCom," fea­so in the
former colleague 
has presided over major tured Cote and United States. headline cases. fellow District The estimated 
Most recently, a class Court Judge and Mount St. $11 billion in accounting action sex discrimination Mary's College graduate fraud at WorldCom cost case brought against Barbara Jones. Former col­thousands of jobs and hun­Morgan Stanley was settled league and attorney Otto dreds of millions of dollars for $54 million under Cote's Obermaier called Cote an lost in investment money. presiding. "iron magnolia" who is The criminal trial for 
In a 1998 case involving "quite forceful." WorldCom chief executive sweat shop labor in the "I always had great confi-Bernard Ebbers has already 
Webber is the Assistant Chile program. Unlike Kane Director of Operations for and Wilson, she was eonfi­



Abroad 
the International Studies dent throughout the whole continued from page 1 Program. application Students who process. about the news she will are accepted "/think my "Almost every­receive today. today, and in chances are all one who applies "I think a lot of people the coming to Chile gets in
right. I've got to get 
applied to Australia and week, must because it's not Dublin," Kane said. confirm their out ofSouth Bend that popular of Sophomore Kyle Wilson decision by fora a place to go," 
had similar feelings of Feb. 21 so stu­Miller said.
semester."
uncertainty about his appli­dents on the The abroad cation, yet remained excited waiting list programs are about the prospect of study­have the Kyle Wilson open to all ing abroad. opportunity to sophomore applicants, but 
"I think my chances are fill in. Bogenschild all right. I've got to get out Some stu-said there are of South Bend for a semes­dents couldn't wait until specific qualifications he ter," he said. today to find out. Thanks to and his staff look for in 
Wilson is among those her rectress Candace applicants. who received word through Carson, Welsh Family soph­"Everything we ask on the email from Peggy Webber omore Kelsey Miller already application !counts]," he that their decision would be found out that she was said. "A lot depends on the in the mailbox this morning. accepted to the Santiago, nature of the program, the begun in another New York courthouse. 
Born in St. Cloud, Minn., Cote graduated from Saint Mary's in 1968. She studied history at Columbia University and taught at thfl Convent of the Sacred lleart, a school in Manhattan. 
Cote returned to Columbia and in 1975 gr'aduated with her law degree. She began clerking for District Court Judge Jack Weinstein in Brooklyn and later became an assistant U.S. attorney and the first female chief of the eriminal division for the Southern District of New York. 
Cote spent a decade work­ing as a federal prosecutor arid had a brief stint in legal defense before Clinton appointed her to the United States District Court. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
academic rigor, the stu­
dent's  academie  back­ 
ground."  
Statisties  show  more  

women than men are aecepted into Notre Dame's abroad programs because more women apply. The sehool's ratio between women and men abroad is consistent with national averages of 55 percent women to 45 percent men, Bogenschild said. A stu­dent's major can have an effect, as well. 
"There are programs that fit certain majors better, but most of our programs accommodate," he said. "It becomes more difficult in engineering and finance." 
Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy@nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 16, '200'5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chinese miners killed in explosion 
FUXIN, China-Tlm~n years after a prom­isPd ovnrhaul of China's workplace safety systnm. an oxplosion donp in a eoal shaft killPd 20:{ minnrs and loft 12 morn missing, 
.ihP govPrnnumt said Ttwsday in its worst 
roportPd mining disaster sincn communist 
ruin bngan in 194(J. 
Downs of rnseunrs worked through the night in frnozing tnmpnraturns to try to reach thn mirwrs who may havn bonn trappnd by Monday's blast in tlw Sunjiawan coal rnino in nortlwast.Prn Liaoning provirH:n. 
Tho cause of tho gas nxplosion, which wont ofT about 7(J4 l'nnt lwlow tho surfaco, was undPr i11wstigation, st.ato nwdia said. 
A thick cordon or mnn in matching dark coats and lwlnwts stood sido hy sidn blor.ki11g tlw PntrancP to tlw mine lat.n Tuosday, as c·ars full or paramilitary pol.ieo patrolled tho sitn. A linP of vans waitnd to transport any wotHHIPd to hospitals in Fuxin, a gritty soot­rovorod dt.y wlwrP mining is llw main indus­try. 
Venezuela and Columbia end fight 
CAIV\CAS, VPtH'ztwla -Thn prnsidnnts of Vnnnztwla and Colombia said Tuesday thny havP smoothPd ovPr a diplomatir. disputo that. nruptod whnn a Colombian robot was sPizPd on lhn strnnts of Caracas, agnwing to rPinstal.P tradn agrnnnwnts and improvo sPrurit.y along tlwir common bordnr. 
Vorwztwlan f'rosidPnt llugo Chavnz said afl.Pr a four-hour mo<'ling with Prosidnnt Alvaro Urilw that tho two "deddod to turn tlu• pagP, to dPar things up." 
Urilw said tlw two countrins wnro commit­ted to holstnring hordnr· security. "This inrplins roopnrating so sovnreignty is not afTnrtnd." 
r 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Supremacists arrested by feds 
SHATTLI~ -Fedora! agents arrested three 1111111 on gun and oxplosivns charges Tuesday. including a whitll supremacist who once snrwd limn for plotting to kill Martin Luther King Jr. 
Knith GilbPrt. 65, a former assoeiatn of late Aryan Nations founder Hiehard Butler, was arrnstc~d at his Seattll~ home, FBI spokes­woman Bobbin Burroughs said. 
William 1>. lleinrieh, 50, a former aide to Butlnr, and John P. llnjna, 44, were also arrnstnd. 
Heroin ring runs out of power 
WASIIIN<;T<>N -Fndnral authoritins said Tunsday thny havn broknn up a drug smug­gling ring that shippnd lwroin from (;uatnmala to tlw Unitcld Statns hiddnn in ear battorios. 
Oporation Jump Start has rnsultnd in 100 arn~sts sinc:n (ktohnr 200:~. including thosn or tho drug ring's lnadors on Tunsday, Drug l·:nforenmnnt Administrator Karon Tandy said. Authoritins arrnstnd 19 pnoplo in Colombia, (;uatnmala and Nnw York. 
Tho lwroin was prodtu:ml in Colombia, thnn plaend in ear hattnril~s in Guatemala, Tandy said. f."rom thnn~. tlw ears worn drivnn through Mnxiro and across tho U.S. bordnr. 
"Wn brought an nntirn opnration that was using this routn to movn Colombia hnroin to a dnad nnd," Tandy said. Colombia is a major supplier or heroin to t.lw Unitnd Statns. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Women arrested after caning cops 
SOU'f'll Bl\ND-f'rosewtors have chargod a 7(J-y(~ar-old woman who policn say injurnd two oflirPrs whPn slw struck thmn with a woodnn rann. 
TIH' ollknrs. both or whom Wl'l"l1 trnatml for thnir injuriPs at an·a hospitals, worn hurt aft.Pr t.hny arrivnd at BPlty Chamhnrs' homo south or South Bond to dwrk on lwr wdfarn. Orw ofli­nw had a snparatPd shouldc~r and hand injury whiln Uw otlwr might have sufliwnd a mild eon­russion. said JainHlP Thirion. a spoknswornan for St. .losnph County polien. 
COM PI LED FRO!v1 THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Israel ready to begin peace talks 
But violence and rebellion continue to threaten Palestines' relations with Israel 
Associated Press 
JEHUSALEM -Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said Tuesday that Israel is pre­pared to make "painful compromises !'or peace," and has begun coordination with Palestinians on Israel's planned pullout from the Gaza Strip. 
llowever, violence could undermine tho tentative steps being taken toward peace. Al'tnr Sharon spoke, Israeli troops shot and killed two armed Palestinians seen approaching a West Bank settlmnent, the Israeli mili­tary said. The military said the inr.ident oeeurred next to the settlement of Bracha, !War the Palestinian dty or Nablus, and both the Palnstinians wore carrying assault rilles. 
Palnstinian militants said tho two belonged to an AI­Aqsa Martyrs Brigades eell f'inancNI by tho Lebanese llezbollah guerrillas, who oppose any truce with Israni. 
AI-Aqsa members in Balata said tho two were guarding an abandoned building, and soldiers shot them with no provocation. The militants said the inci­dent "will not pass lightly," indicating that they would retaliate, possibly endan­goring tho cease-lire. 
Earlier, Palestinian secu­rity officials reported that Israeli troops on patrol in the West Bank village of Beitunia shot and killed a 14-year-old Palestinian boy who threw stones at them. Tho teenager, Ala llani, was killed when he was shot in the neck, tho offi­cials said. The Israeli mili­tary had no immediate eomment. 
Addressing the Foreign Pross Association in Jerusalem, Sharon said last week's summit showed that thoro can be progress toward pcaee if violonce is 

· ended. 
At the summit, Sharon and Palestinian loader Mahmoud Abbas dedared a truee to end more than four 

years of bloodshed. Sinec then, live Palestinians havo died in sporadic violence. 
Alongsido measures to cement the truce, Sharon is also dealing with increas­ingly harsh opposition to his plan to dismantle all 21 Jewish settlements in Gaza and four in the West Bank in the summer. Extremists have sent death threats to some Israeli Cabinet minis­ters. 
"We needed to take painful steps" toward peace, Sharon said, refer­ring to his pullout plan, but he hoped to prevent a rift among his people. lie said Israel is prepared to make "painful compromises for peaee, but it will not make any compromises with tor­
ror." sell advanced missiles to 
He said he hoped that Syria, despite Israel's objec­after the Israeli pullout, tions. Gaza would be under the "I understand that they control of tho Palestinian arn going to sell this kind of Authority and not llamas or weapon to the Syrians," Islamic Jihad. lie said coor­Sharon said. · dination of the pullout with "We of eoursn worry Palestinian officials has about that, and don't think begun. that should hltvn hap­
"Disengagement from poned." lin warned that Gaza will be coordinated sueh weapons 1~ould "fall with the Palostinians," into the hands of tho terror­Sharon said, in his dnarest. ist organizations," dospito statement yet on tho sub­Hussian President Vladimir joet. Putin's assuranl:os. 
Sharon said his plan In spito of Sharon's posi­would solidify Israel's grip tive assnss mn n t oI' tlw on main settlement blocs in peaee process, lsraoli and tho West Bank, which "will Palestinian negotiators be part of tho Jewish state wore locked in a dispute in the futuro." Tuosday over a withdrawal 
Sharon also said Hussia from tho West Bank town of informed him that it would Jeridw. 


Thousands attend U.S. nun's funeral 
Associated Press 
ANAI'U, Brazil -Thousands of pnopln, from peasants to politicians, eonvnrg()(l on this rnrnoto Amazon town Tuosday to bury tho bullot-rid­don body of an oldorly American nun killnd in tho struggln to protoet tho Amazon rain forest and its poor residents from loggers and raneh­m·s. 
Af'tnr an all-night vigil, mournnrs filod slowly past tho sirnpln, nag­draped eof'finl10lding t.lw remains of Dorothy Stang in tho small shingle­roofed ehureh of Anapu, tho jungle town of 7,000 rnsidnnts that. Stang adoptnd as hor own. 
"I l'oel like a river without water, a forest without trees. It's liko losing a mother," said Fernando Anjos da Silva, who said Stang helped him gel medical care after a logging aeei­dcnt that left him in a wheelchair. 
Nearly 1,000 miles to tho south­east in tho capital of Brasilia, Cabinet ministnrs eompared Stang to Chico Mendes, tho enlnbrated defondnr or tho rain fornst who was gunned down in 1988. 
"Chico dind for the sanw rnason, killnd by people with no rnspnd. for lifo or tho law," said Environmont Minister Marina Silva. 
Brazilians have triod for conturins to conquer thn Amazon, which eov­ors morn half tho country. But the jungle frustrated vnnt.urns oven by Ilnnry Ford and (;nrman hillionairo Daniel Ludwig, and some Brazilians call it "tho grnnn hnll." 
Brazil's 1964-85 military govnrn­mnnt buill. thn Trans-Amazon llighway and gavn pnopln f'rnn land in an atltHnpt to populatn thn rngion. Thn plan dn~w snttlPrs from thn arid northnast. as wnll as land srwcula­tors who took rontrol of' murh of' tlw rich stands of' timlwr -mahogony, massaranduba and ipn. 
Loggnrs and randwrs grnw strong by b1u:king local politir.ians, and by hiring gunnwn to nliminatn oppo­nents. 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, February 16,-2005 
ate professor of history and a fellow of the Nanovic
Search 

Institute and Teresa Phelps, continued from page 1 a Law School professor and a fellow of the Kroc Institute, 
the !search] process, Linney said. Linney said. "We don't want "They are trusted col-­too big of a gap [after Hatch leagues ... [who] have been leaves]." at the University a long time 
The provost is elected by and probably have a broad the Board of Trustees. perspective on the According to Notre Dame's University," Linney said. "It's 
academic arti­ an  honor  to  be  
cles, the search  elected  to  the  
committee must announce the  "They are trusted  committee." The student  
position publicly  colleagues ... {who]  committee  mem­ 
and ask for nominations from the faculty, with additional  have been at the University a long time.,,  ber is senior Jeremy Staley, who serves as an academic dele­ 
nominations  gate  to  the  
possible from the University president and  Ann Linney associate provost  Council. Staley, who was also on the  
the Board. After  search committee  
consultations  for the new dean  

within the committee about of the First Year of Studies potential candidates, the program, said he expects to president reports the results gain exceptional experience to the Board and offers a as the sole student on the personal recommendation provost committee. before the Board makes its "You really get to see how choice. the upper echelons of the 
Hatch's University work," involvement in Staley said, this process "! want to try to adding he will remains to be seek input from
get the broadest 
seen, -Linney many other
representation.,,
said, but added undergraduates the provost cer­in order to best tainly has high Jeremy Staley represent the stu­expectations for dent voice.
student committee 
his successor. "I want to try to
member
"He's been at get the broadest Notre Dame 30 representation," years -I know that he cares he said. '"What would you a great deal about what hap­like to see in a provost?' is a pens and who will replace hard question ... 'what direc­him," she said. -tion would you like to see 
The faculty committee Notre Dame go in?' ... you members who were chosen at want someone who's going to the Academic Council meet­have this vision, understand ing include Panos Antsaklis, the University's mission ­an electrical engineering i't's kind of a formidable professor and the director of post." the Center for Applied The Academic Council Mathematics, Sunny Boyd, an meeting was closed to the associate professor of biolog­press. 
ical sciences, Cornelius Delaney, a philosophy profes­Ct>ntact Claire Heininger at sor, Brad Gregory, an associ-cheining@nd.edu 




Hackers breach co111puter files 
California-based company warn potentially effected consumers 
Associated Press said. Oluwatosin, 41, when the 
"California is the focus of Nigerian national went to his 

SAN FRANCISCO-A com­the investigation and we don't office to receive a fax ostensi­pany that collects consumer have any evidence to indicate bly from ChoicePoint. Police data warned thousands of at this point that the situation were waiting for the North Californians that hackers pen­has spread beyond Hollywood resident at his etrated the c'ompany's com­California," Jones said. "If at office in Los Angeles. He's puter network and may have some point in time we get been in jail since then and is stolen credit reports, Social information that it's in other scheduled to appear in Los. Security numbers and other areas, we'll revisit the disclo-Angeles County Court on sensitive infor-sure." Thursday. mation. Security experts Robert Costa, the lieutenant 
Choice Point dismissed the in charge of Southern Inc., which sells "California is the notion that hack­California's High Tech Task such data to ers would limit Force Identity Theft Detail,
focus of the

government their attack geo­said agents believe several agencies and a investigation." graphically. other people were involved. variety of com­"I've never ChoicePoint sent e-mail noti­panies, Chuck Johnes heard of a hacker fications to Californians last acknowledged week. State residents were the
Alpharetta spokesman doing something

Tuesday that just to make a only Americans notified several hackers company comply because the state has a unique broke into its with a state law requiring companies that computer database and pur­statute -that's ridiculous," do business with residents to loined data from as many as said Nick Akerman, partner warn them when they've had 35,000 Californians. and co-chair of the computer holes in corporate computer 
Last fall, hackers apparently fraud division of law firm networks. used stolen identities to create Dorsey & Since the law what appeared to be legiti­Whitney. "It'd be went into effect 
mate businesses seeking like robbing a in July 2003, ChoicePoint accounts, said bank that wasn't organizations
'Tve never heard

Chuck Jones, a spokesman for FDIC insured so have alerted cus­
of a hacker doing 

Alpharetta, Ga.-based compa­the robber tomers whenever ny. They opened about 50 wouldn't have to something just to "unencrypted accounts. be prosecuted personal infor­
make a company

The attack appears to have by the FBI." mation was, or is
comply with a

resulted in at least six cases of W h e n reasonably identity theft in Los Angeles ChoicePoint dis­state stature. " believed to have County. It's unclear whether covered the been, acquired data of people outside crime in by an unautho­
Nick Akerman 

California were exposed. But October, it rized person." 
law-firm partner

law enforcement agents, who closed the sus­Identity theft is have arrested one person on pect accounts, the country's six counts of theft, say hun­restricted fastest-growing dreds of thousands of access, strength-crime, and more Americans elsewhere may be ened site verification, than 9. 9 million Americans at risk. informed law enforcement were victims last year. The 
ChoicePoint has not notified agencies and cooperated in crimes cost a total of $5 bil­consumers in other states, nor their investigation. lion, not including lost produc­is it working with law enforce­On Oct. 27, California sheriff tivity, according to the U.S. ment agents elsewhere, Jones deputies arrested Olatunji Postal Inspection Service. 
Wednesd~y}lFebr,,~ary 16th 
}~~-· . <....··~= "'\... 

... . 
.. . . .. 
n_-_D.---E·__{ll?_I,_._roo.-.-_._-_-_-_-_ 
_J....,.,.,.,_ r""lt ~lll1ll1
=· 
;;.. /''"#) ~"""" ' 


Pfn[;Kathleenrcumm:ings 
D~pm1mentof.H.istm·J l'uslnva 1'11nl.t~r fm·Jnu~t·intn fatholirism 




Can You 
Be 
Get tapped in at Legends. 
5peaker starts at 10:00 PM. Free soft drinks and food, cash bar 
CM 
*Can't make it? We'll be back on Feb. 23rd. Campus Ministry 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Wc:dnesday, February 16, 2005 
page 7 
-:-:--====== 
~ 
·J 
I 
I 
j 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 10 837.32 +46.19
}ones ' 
~ Same: Down: Composite Volume: 182 638.619,200
v 

AMEX I ,493.20 -8.91 NASDAQ 2,(>X9.2T +6.30 NYSE'' '" 
7,303.90_ +23.59 S&PSOO 1,210.12 +3.9X NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ~63X.50 -7.99 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,05X.90 +17.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR (QQQQ)  +0.66  +0.25  38.12  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +0.66  +0.16  24.47  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  0.00  0.00  25.93  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -0.28  -0.05  17.92  
APPLIED MAT (AMAT)  +2.10  +0.36  17.49  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.74  +0.33  44.81  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.61  +0.25  40.98  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.46  +0.17  37.09  
3-MONTH BILL  +2.0 I  +0.50  25.32  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.25  47.77  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  0.00 427.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -I .60  86.13  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  104.69  
EURO  0.7688  
POUND  0.5281  
CANADIAN$  1.2325  

IN BRIEF 
3 plead guilty in insurance probe 
NI(W YOHK-A fornwr senior executive at Marsh & McLennan Cos. and two employees at Anwri<~an International Group Inc. plead­ed guilty Tuesday in the state's probe of bid­rigging and ·price-fixing in tho insurance industry. 
.Joshua Bnwlay, a former managing direc­tor at Marsh; .John Mohs, a vice president in a unit of' AIG; and Carlos Coello, an AIC undnrwritnr, nntored their pleas in state court. 
Nnw York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer said thn del'nndants aro nxpm:tnd to testify in tlw broadening ease. 
Bnwlay and Mohs pleaded guilty to schem­ing to dnfraud, whieh carries up to four years in prison. Coello pleaded guilty to a misdtHIHHtnor count of thn offense, punish­ahln by up to a year in jail. Their sentenees will dnpnnd on their ltwel of cooperation with prosecutors. 
Microsoft to give away spyware 
SAN FHANCISCO -Microsoft Corp. will give away software to battle spywarn, adware and other privacy-invading pests, company co-foundor Bill Gates said Tuesday. 
In a speech to security exports, Gates said spywarn and other invasive programs are lwcoming a major threat to the future of computing. User~ ol'ten unknowingly accept spywarn when they install free software without reading its accompanying licensing agrnements. 
Last month, the company released a free tnst version of Microsoft AntiSpyware, which was based on technology from a firm it acquired in Decembor. But it had not announeml whether the technology would be frnn in the final release. 
"Spyware ... is something we need to nip now," Gates said. "We made the decision that all of our Windows licensees should have thatlantispywarel capability. I'm excit­ed we got this technology and it addresses a burning rwed for our usnrs." 
Tlw program also ineludns a !'nature where users can submit information back to Mierosof't so that it keeps up with the latest ttm~ats. This option proved to be incredibly usdul during tho test run, Gates said. 


Tribes' casino profits soaring 
Nevada's gambling industry no match for tax-free casinos on reservations 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -Indian trihns took a gamble on the casino businnss, and it's paying o!T. 
Tribes that worn mired in poverty I 0 or 20 years ago are enjoying nnw­found prosperity as Indian casino rnvenuns far out.­pacn tlw take from Nevada's gambling indus­try. 
Indian gambling pulled in $1S.5 billion in 2004, according to a rnport Tuesday, a 10 percent increase that nxtnndnd more than a dneadn of double-digit growth for the nation's Indian casi­nos. 
Tribal casinos have mushroomed since Congress passed a law creating tlw lngal !'ramo­work in 11JHX. Thorn now arn 411 Indian casinos in the United Statns, operat­ed by 223 tribns in 28 
· states. Morn t.han hall' of the 341 f'ndnrally recog­nizod Indian tribes in the continental United States operate casinos. 
Becausn tribns are sov­nrnign nations, they don't have to pay state or local taxes and are exempt from most zoning and other laws, a special sta­tus that can cause connict with neighbors. Tribal casinos have encountered turn our economy around. fits our communities and to develop nnw projects so opposition from some We looked to casino gam­surrounding communi­wn'rn going to son contin­loeal communities that ing as a way to do that," ties," said Mark Van und strong growth for don't want the traffic or said Dee Pigsley, chair­Norman, executive direc­some time." strain on resources. woman or the tor of the National Indian Tribal officials said the 
to head off opposition, Confederated Tribes of Gaming Association. biggest growth areas are tribal leaders have grown Siletz, whjch has a casino The growth of the California and New York. more aggressive about in Oregon. "No other industry has been "com­California Gov. Arnold asserting benefits. development could return pletely unexpected and Sehwarznnegg1~r has National Indian Gaming the kind of profits that a sp-ectacular," said I. sought to tap tribal casino Association ol'ficials said casino could offer." Nelson Rose, who teaches rnvenun to elosn the Tuesday that tribal gam­Major Nevada resorts gambling law at Whittier state's budget dnl'ieit, bling has directly or indi­took in $9.88 billion in Law School in Costa Mesa, while Gov. George l'ataki rectly created 553,000 gambling revenue in the Calif. lie and other wants to bring five Indian jobs, mostly for non­2004 fiscal year. Overall, experts predicted it could casinos to the Catskills as Indians, and that it gener­revenue at Nevada continue at the same level part of a deal to settle ated $5.5 billion in federal resorts, including from for some time. tribal land claims. taxes in 2004. hotels and restaurants, "At a eertain point it Nov ad a o!Tiei als have 
Tribal leaders say gam­was $19.59 billion in may level off because occasionally expressnd bling has allowed them to 2004. That figure for we'll have more of the conenrns t.hat tribal casi­lift their reservations out Indian casinos was $21 tribes built out," Van nos could nat into their of poverty. billion. Norman said in an inter­prol'its, but Nevada casi­
"We had to overcome "We are creating eco­view. "But we're still see­nos are generating record insurmountable odds to nomie activity that bene-ing tribes that are looking profits, too. 


Marketers targeting older women 
shall spend my pension on brandy and for adull'i. "I have worked for my kids' 
Associated Press 

summer gloves." school, my chureh, raised money for 
Sue Ellen Cooper thought she would Cooper found that other friends the local children's center, and of' enter her golden years quietly, working wanted red hats too, and soon they eourse we love to do those things. But on her garden and cooking. Instead, were going out, having a ball and someone has got to give thesn womon the former graphic designer acciden­attracting attention from others who permission to take a whole day or a tally launched a rapidly growing social wanted to join. weekend and just goof oil'," she said. network for older women whieh has The groups started to proliferate, The business ventures started small, caught the eye of businesses eager to and today the Fullerton, Calif.-based as the group limnd that new mcmbnrs tap the buying power of an age group Hed Hat Society counts more than wanted to buy olndal Heel flat rngalia, long neglected by marketers and 800,000 members and 36,000 chapters including pins, boas, and, of course advertisers. in the United States. The women, who hats, to mark their membership. But 
The Hed I!at Society traces its roots are mainly over 50, go to the theater, soon the Hod Hattnrs found themselves to 1998, when Cooper gave a friend a have tea, play cards and generally entertaining offers from companios red hat along with a copy of a poem have a good lime. eager to reach older women through called "Warning," which begins: The 60-year-old Cooper, who has the powerful means of a word-of­"When I am an old woman, I shall dubbed herself the Exalted Queen mouth soda! network, whieh happens wear purple I With a red hat whieh Mother of the Red I !at Society, said she to be a hot topie among marketers doesn't go, and doesn't suit me. I And I still thinks of her Ooek as a play group these days. 
r 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 16, 2005 
U.S. pulls presence fron1 Syria 
Ambassador removed due to assassination 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The United States pulled its ambassador from Syria on Tuesday, express­ing "profound outrage" over the assassination of a Lebanese leader who had protested Syrian influence in his country. 
In Lebanon, noisy street pro­cessions mourned former Prime Minister Hafik Hariri a day before the funeral that will bring international leaders to Beirut. Angry Lebanese attacked Syrian workers in his hometown of Sidon, injuring several and shat­tering the windows of a Syrian­owned bakery. 
Many Lebanese are pressing Syria to withdraw its 15,000 sol­diers -in the country for more than a decade. 
"We believe the Lebanese peo­ple must be free to express their political preferences and choose their own representatives with­out intimidation or the threat of violence," State Department spokesman Hiehard Boucher Said in announeing the imminent return of U.S. Ambassador Margaret Scoboy. 
Administration officials stopped short of directly accusing Syria of carrying out the murder. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said the assassination was the "proximate cause" of the ambassador's meal!. 
Asked if the United States would punish Syria with new economie sanetions, Hiee said, "We will eontinue to eonsider other options." 
"The Syrian problem is a seri­ous problem," Hiee said. "Our problems with the Syrian govern­ment are not new." 
Among the problems, Hiee said, were support for terrorism and for insurgents in Iraq. "The Syrian government is, unfortu­nately, on a path right now where relations are not improv­ing but are worsening," she said. 
Seobey's return does not break diplomatic relations with Syria, a eountry the United States has accused of exporting terrorism. Syria took no immediate recipro­eal action, such as recalling its own ambassador from Washington. 

50510 St. Rd. 933N • South Bend 
574-272-1617 

Meeting results in drug tnonitoring board 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The gov­ernment is setting up a special monitoring board to keep checking· on medicines once they're on the market, respond­ing to complaints that officials reacted too slowly to reports linking prescription painkillers to heart attack and stroke. 
Plans for the board were announced Tuesday on the eve of a three-day scientific meet­ing on the safety of painkillers such as Vioxx and Celebrex, drugs that blossomed into a $5 billion-a-year business before risks from potential side effects 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIESg
TO WORK FOR~ 
came to light. 

Meanwhile, a medical journal questioned whether continued use of such products was justi­fied. 
Vioxx was pulled from the market in September after a study showed an increase in heart attacks and strokes among people using it. Other studies have also raised ques­tions of heart problems with the similar drugs Celebrex and Bextra. 
"Beeause there are well­established options for treat­ment of all the approved indica­tions for these drugs, it is rea­sonable to ask whether the use of the drugs can now be justi­fied," Dr. Jeffrey M. Drazen, editor of the New England Journal of Medicine, wrote in an editorial published online. 
That is the question facing the Food and Drug Administration's arthritis and drug safety and risk manage­ment advisory committees at their meeting beginning Wednesday. 
The new drug safety board was announeed by Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt, who said it has become clear that people want more oversight and openness from the FDA. 
"They want to know what we know, what we do with infor­mation and why we do it," Leavitt said, promising to cre­ate "a new culture of openness and enhanced independence." 
The board will recommend what information and updates to put on the government's Drug Watch, resolve disputes over drug safety issues, and oversee the development of a drug safety policy. It will include FDA employees and medical experts from other government agencies and will consult with outside medical experts as well as consumer and patien_t groups. 

It will feel less constricting at a great job. 
At Emst & Young, the opportunity for growth is enormous. We offer over 
7,000 professional development programs-some of the best formal learning programs in the country -because our philosophy is People First. We recognize that our employees are essential to the firm's growth and success. And in order to attract the best talent, we've built an environment that Fortune® magazine has consistently recognized as one of the "100 Best Companies To Work For." So whether you're looking for a place to grow or a great place to work, look for our recruiters on campus. ey.comjusjcareers 
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
~~~==========================================~====~==========~ 
LEBANON 


Officials suspect suicide bo111ber as assassin 
Lebanese mourn in streets after death of ex-premier, many blarne attack on Syrians 
Associated Press 
Bl·:lllUT -l.dmrwse mourned their slain ex-pn~mil~r Tuesday with noisy stnwt processions, while llw country's intf~rior rninistnr suggested a suieide homher aided by "internation­al parties" may have been behind tho assassination of llaf'ik llariri. Lebanon's gov­Prnnwnt. still in shock from llw bombing that lel't llariri and I(, othnrs dead, came urulnr mounting prnssurn to bring tlw assassins to justicn. Many in Lnbanon blamed the attack on Syria. 
lntPrnational lnadnrs are expPrttHI to join tl'ns of thou­sands at llariri's l'unnral on Wedrwsday as the outpouring ol' grinl' and anger following tlw billionaire tycoon's dnath continwHI. 
lloznns ol' angry llariri sup­portt~rs attacknd Syrian work­ers in thn fornwr lnadcr's honwtown ol' Sidon. in south­ern Lebanon, lightly injuring five and shattering the win­dows of a Syrian-owned bak­ery. Syria has denied involve­ment and eondnmned the attaek, but many Lnbannse have inernasnd demands on Damascus to withdraw its 15,000 soldiers l'rom the coun­try. 
Syria deployed its forces to Lebanon during tho 1975-90 civil war to stop the country bomber may havn targnted llariri's hnavily protectnd motorcade as its cruised through Beirut's Ein-Mrnisseh neighborhood. lie said the location of the crater in tho middle of the road indieated the bomb-laden ear was approaching the motorcade, attempting to ram it or to bypass it. 

"For sure, someone was 
driving the ear. lin 
could bn a suicide 

from falling bomber who blew
"lie could be a 
apart and himself up," the
suicide bomber 
remained after minister said, the eonfliet who blew himself hinting of a net­ended. Its con­work behind the
up.

tinued presence assassination. is a souren of Franjinh, how­
Suleiman Franjieh 
frustration for ever, said he could many Lnbanesn Interior Minister not confirm the and for the sukide attack the-international ory and was community, particularly awaiting DNA results from Washington. those killed. 
Interior Ministnr Suleiman While most suspieion has Franjinh suggnsted a suicidn fallen on Syria or its support­ers here, possibilities inelude rogue Syrian intnlligenen operatives, or even factions among Lebanon's myriad rnli­gious groups. Hesponsibility claims by previously unknown Islamic militants wnrn not considered credible, with Justice Ministnr Adnan Addoum warning thny could be an attnmpt "to mislead the investigation." 
At the bomb scene, explo­sives experts combnd rooftops and the street, searching for evidence as residents elearnd debris from their bakonies. 
Thousands of mourners ma-rched through Beirut's streets in separate processions to pay tribute to llariri and condemn his killers. "Syrians Out!" chanted several hundred protesters wearing business suits, while motorcades ol' supporters elsewhere honked ear horns while driving through the capital in cars pasted with Jlariri's picturns. 
Information Session for the University ofNotre Dame's International Study Programs 
Study Abroad This Summer! Earn ND credit in: Dublin, Ireland Toledo, Spain Plus, new this summer: 
Berlin, Germany • Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico (ND EG courses offered!) 


Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 5:30pm 126 DeBartolo Hall 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 1, 2005 


Please join us for a Junior Parents Reception in the ACE office 2:00-4:00 ptn on Friday. February 18 
It'll he a xreat opportunity to discuss the possibility ofpost-graduate service! 
Influenza puts trial on hold 
Jackson's visit to ER delays jury selection 
Associated Press 
SANTA MAHIA, Calil'. -Miehael Jackson was taknn to an enwrgency room with llu­like symptoms Ttwsday, dPlay­ing jury seleetion in tlw pop star's child-molestation ease for a week. 
The entertainer was being treated for a "l'lu-likn illness with some vomiting," Dr. Chw~k Morrill said during a brief news conl'ernnee at Marian Medical Center about live hours after 
Jackson's  illness  was  
announced  in  eourt  by  thn  
judgo.  

"lin's in stable condition and we expect a full recovery," said Morrill, who would not answer questions. 
Jackson's brotlwr Handy told reporters the entnrtairwr would spend the night in t.lw hospital. 
Earlier, as potential jurors f'ilnd into the courtroom ­ineluding a few who worn scolded by bailin·s for bning latP -Jackson's seat remainnd empty. Nearly 20 minutes after the singer was sehndulod to arrive, Judge Hodnny S. Mnlvillll announced that Jackson had been taken to a hospital. 
lie said the 46-year-old singer would neod three or four days to reeovnr and noted that snv­eral nwmlwrs of' thn jury pool were out with the flu and that it appeared to be going around. 
The judge said Jackson had been on his way to eourt but was taken to a hospital Pnwr­gency room instead. 
Outside the hospital, about two miles f'rom t.lw '~ourthouse, a growing crowd of about fiO fans and reporters gatherPd. Po I i en of'l'ir. n r s guarded a II entranens, stopping anyone who appeared to be with the nnws rnndia, whiiP hospital ofli­eials put up whitP l'ahrk t.o hidP what was going on in t.lw ''nwr­genr.y room. 
Jury soleetion had alrPady benn delayed f'or a wePk because ol' the death of' a dnfense atlorrwy's sistPr. 
Tlw two sidPs ar<' sPIPrting 12 jurors and Pighl altPrrHLtPs who will dp,·idP whPih<'r .larkson molested a tnPnag'' ran('PI' patient at his NPwrland llanrh and pliPd thP youngst.Pr with alcohol. The trial rould last about six months. 
.Jaekson rarrie·d tisslH's and was wiping his rwsu whPn lw arrived at court Monday -tlw f'irst day of' quPst.ioning of' prospective juror·s. .larkson's lawyers also annourH'Pd thPy may try to rail surh stars as t:lizalwth Taylor. .lay I.Pno. Quincy .lmws and 1\oiH' Bryant to tlw stand. 
Dnfens'~ attorrwy Thomas MesProau .lr. told tlw judge that Jaekson was fePiing ill Monday and that tlw symptoms ront.in­uml Tuesday morning en routn to the courthouse. Leaving court, anotlwr Jaekson attor­ney, Brian Oxman, said: "lin's doing OK. lie's bnnn admitted to the hospital." 
Beforn thn court session ended Tunsday, tlw judgn rejneted a request from Mesernau to question jurors for more than I 0 minutes, saying that was plenty of time. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, February 16, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notte Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, !N 46556. 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghannc Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
SI•ORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MAltY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter 
CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l,@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
. (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements ba,;ed on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor. As.,istanr Managing Editor and department editors. · Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoilll space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I,etters ro the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions rrgarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Ediror in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob$C:tvet (USI'S i99 24000) i.~ puhli!hed Monday through Friday c!:Kcept during cum 0111d vac.ation periods. A subscription w The Observc!t is $J00 fo( one academic ye:ar; $i'; for one S<mesu:r. · 
The Oh~rver is published at; POSTMASTER · 
024 Somh Dining -fall Send add~ corr~cions ro: 
Notre D.unc-.IN 46S56.0779 The Observer 
Periodical post~ paid .u Notte Dam<! P.O.Il<>x779 
and additional mailing offices. 024-Sourh Dining Hall 
Nott< Damo.IN 46$56.0779 
The Ob.avcr is a ntemhtr ofthe Associated Press:. AU reproduction rights ate re.ervcd. 

Can you say it? 
Can you say it? Vagina. 
Every year around this time, that curi­ously absent anatomical word floats across campus like a fad, a discovery and then disappears into the cave of annual campus events. However, this is the Kama ria exact opposite of the Porter mission of the Vagina 
Love in the

Monologues and V-Day. Talking to Notre Ruins Dame's diverse group ofVagina Warriors, one sees beyond the clouded debate and controversy to find an energizing play, a socially vital movement and a beloved community of sisters work­ing for a better world. 
The Vagina Monologues sprang from the depths of the unspoken. Discussions surrounding female bodies, sexuality and rape are deemed either inappropriate for open discussion or unimportant. We lack spaces for discussion for these issues and for V-Day activists; this is a serious prob­lem. The statistics are appalling-one in three women worldwide will be victims of some form of violence (battering, rape and harassment to name a few), one of four college women will experience sexual assault-attempted or completed -and more than half of these violations go unre­ported. V-Day Student organizer junior Kaitlyn Redfield comments, "After three years of being involved, I've come to 
· understand that being silent-on this issue is perpetuating the problem." By denying the pervasiveness of sexual assault, we isolate the victims and fail to combat the problem. At Notre Dame, our illusions of being a "family", parietals and rules against pre­marital intercourse seem to erase from our consciousness issues of sexuality in general and sexual assault specifically. Junior Halle Kiefer sees the Monologue,~> as a forum for victims, friends and all peo­
ple concerned with violence against women to find healing and seek answers. She says, "People say rape and assault doesn't happen here, but it does, behind closed doors and people have to deal with it." It is the women and men (one of seven men experience a sexual assault) suffer­ing in silence the Monologues aims to con­sole and give a voice for their pain and frustration. Redfield sees Notre Dame as having a strong ''culture of silence" around these issues. The Vagina Warriors in response plan awareness events, fi.mdraisers for local sexual assault response centers and the Vagina Monologues to combat that silence and aid victims. 
V-Day also is a celebration of femininity and builds solidarity among the people involved. It is completely student planned and based. Redfield was inspired seeing "college women taking action" to end sex­ual assault. The community created through performing the show and plan­ning events sustains its members. Kiefer and others fmd a chance to meet new friends, connect more with eurrent ones and build a positive community around important issues. V-Day meetings are chalk full of laughter, camaraderie and support, which in such a diverse group of women is revolutionary. We can learn much from the model of the vagina war­riors. As they endeavor to make them­selves into afocused community of respect and peace, they remake the world around them and battle a grave injustice. 
To their critics, V-Day participants speak respectfully and seriously. Their mission, to end violence against women and girls worldwide, has been misconstrued in out­rageous ways. Some associate their pur­pose with pro-choice groups. To this, Redfield says we must "divorce discus­sions of violenee against women· and abor­tion debates. Just because they both deal with women, it does not equate them." Notre Dame's Vagina Warriors have noth­ing to do with any pro-choice groups, for they are sponsored by University depart­ments and the money they raise goes to SOS and YWCA in their ministries to vic­tims of rape and domestic abuse. Junior Jackie Clark sees the binding ofV-Day and abortion issues as a major problem. For her, "The goal of the Monologues is to pro­mote awareness. It's a shame they are associated inappropriately". 
The recurrent attacks on V-Day seem to be rooted in general misconceptions of feminism. The struggle for equality and dignity for women in public and private relationships continues. Hedfield believes the boundaries between orthodox Catholicism and feminism wrongly hinder fmding shared values. She holds that, "At the heart, feminism and Catholicism both share the common goal of fostering peaee and promoting the recognition of dignity of women and men." Women in the move­ment assert their dignity through cele­brating their gendered identity, releasing frustration over shared oppression and inviting men and other women to know their joys and pains. 
Now, can you say it? 
The Vagina Monologues are here to educate, liberate and agitate us all to be more proactive actors in the fight to end violence against women and girls. As sophomore Casey Stanton wrote in poetic verse, "we are all responsible, we all must take up the fight, it's time to defend, a Female's Right to Life." See the show and engage the issues until the violence stops. 
Kamaria Porter is a junior history major. She can be contacted at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports 

Megan O'Neil Kate Gales Nicole Zook Ann Loughery Do the Vagina Monologues Katie Laird Ryan Kiefer 
belong at Notre Dame? 
Peter Leahy Scene Viewpoint Christie Boisen Becca Rosswurm lllustrator 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Graphics Graham Ebetsch 

Graham Ebetsch www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We cannot change anything until we accept it. Condemnation does not liberate, it oppresses." 
Carl Gustav Jung psychologist 

T~-1 EOBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 page II 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
What it means to be Conservative Catholic 
In recent days, Consorvativd Catholics have been decisions, opinions or regulations picked randomly hashnd bneausn of' their stance on the Quenr out of a hat and subsequently passed down Film Festival and thn Vagina Monologues. I through the ages. The Church is not would I i kn to clarify a row things so that against homosexual marriage, contra­pooplo do not solidify in their minds ception, pornography or anything else wrongful storootypns of' what it simply because it has had a tradi­rnnans to be a Consnrvativo 
tion of doing so. There is a beauti­Catholic. 
ful logic to it all that many tend 
First of all. it should be clariliod not to understand nor appreeialo, wltal. "(:onsnrvalive" means. Tho and it is a truth that does not word is used so much that tho become obsolete over time. .I nwaning of' it tends to be lost. In would truly be interested to tho contPxt of' Catholicism. boing know how many people who dis­"conservative" is generally con­agree with the Church really sl.nu~d as lwlinving in the tradi­understand its teachings on tional tPachings of' tho Catholic human sexuality. Sure, you know Church. Sincn Vatican II, thoro that the Church thinks homosexu­havn boon many tlwologians who ality is "disordnred," but do you have dissentPd from Church teach­understand this teaching in the full ings, especially in matters of snxual context of tho Christian meaning of morality, and Consnrvativo Catholies sox? If you don't tmderstand what the snnk to ddnnd tho Faith in tho raen of Church says, then how can you disagree tlwsn opposing theologies. with it? 
Sneondly, I think many peopln need to realize that Thirdly, Conservative Catholics are of the mindset Catholic tmu:hing is not a composition or arbitrary that the "love" commonplace in our American socie-
Moderator clarifies discrepancy 
~· 
As tho moderator of the panel on same-sex who were asked, declined. We were very sad-marriage at tho recent second Annual Queer dened by that response because there is no l;ilm Festival, I would like to clarify one 
way for viewpoints to be discussed if disernpancy that keeps rearing its only similar perspectives are pre­head and was used by Bishop John sented. I>'Arey as a major reason for his On Friday, when a very coura­
objnction to tho festival. Tho geous member of Courage agreed 
organizing committee (and I per­on the spot to speak from the 
sonally) have a serious commit­Church's perspective, we were 
mont to academic integrity, free­delighted to offer that viewpoint 
dom and dialogue. We were ded­to those assembled. His willing­
icated to having all viewpoints, ness to speak allowed for a 
including the Church's stance on much more insightful discussion 
same-sex marriages and homo­to occur, and we are 'grateful for 
sexual activity, accurately ropre­his and all the other speakers par­
snnted and defended. ticipation. 
Wo, tho planning committee, con­tacted representatives from the David E. Pais 
University's theology department, campus ministry and administration, asking for some­onn to please add this additional perspective to the panel. For various reasons, all of those 
U-WIRE 
Federal cuts hurt students 
Wlwtlwr you love or hatn th~1 Bush adminis­tration, most students should be able' to agree on one thing: They should stop cutting educa­tional grants. 
The latest assault on federal financial aid eonws in cutting l'nrkins 
Staff Editorial 

Loans and requiring stricter eligibility standards to 
New York

rnceivn Poll Grants. The 
University

administration has champi­
Washington

oned tho cuts as studont­
Square News 

friendly bneause tho maxi­mum Poll award incrnased by about $100 per roeipient. But this one positive aspect dons not counteract all the downsides. 
It will be significantly harder to qualify for a Poll Grant, so whiln the students who do receive them will get slightly more money­although, we should note, $100 won't even covnr textbooks for the semester-many other needy students will be left with nothing. 
Several thousand NYU students and millions of youths aeross the country depend on Poll Grants to help finance their educations. Now, thoy will be forced to seek monetary assis­tance elsewhere, and NYU's financial aid pro­gram simply doesn't have deep enough pock­ets. 
co-chair Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Feb. 15 
The negligible Pell Grant increases have another price as well: Cuts to the low-interest Perkins student loan, which helped about 600,000 students pay for college last year. Slashing this loan program will have a pro­foundly negative effect on students whose financial situations necessitate some extra time to pay off their school debts. 
While the president claims to have made grant increases his top priority, it's hard to see his budget as anything less than an assault on low-income students. In addition to cutting Perkins loans, he has also slashed mentoring and tutoring programs that help low-income students prepare for college. 
NYU students are already in a financial crunch trying to pay for our $40,000-a-year education. Now, those of us who need financial aid the most are being pushed aside when we get to college, if we're able to get there at all.' Partisan politics side, these cuts hurt the need­iest students, and this administration and this president should be ashamed of themselves. In our ideal world, every qualified person would be able to afford a college education. But then again, in our ideal world, we'd also get into Yale University with a C average-but that privilege seems reserved for a select few. 
This letter is in response to Bishop John I)'Arey's Feb. 10 piece regarding the second annual Queer Film Festival. While we have tremendous respect for the bishop, his office and his opinion, we believe that there are a few inaccuracies in his statement that need to be addressed. 
D'Arcy claims that "no place has been made at this seminar fi1r the clear and accurate presentation of Catholic teaching." In reality, the festival stafl'made'numerous attompL'> to have members of tho Catholic community speak on our panels and rnpresenl Church teaching. I lowever, nobody was willing to do this. 
Ultimately, we did lmd a layperson that agreed to present the Catholic viewpoint in our "future ofgay marriage" panel. The Notre Dame Queer Film Festival welcomes people from all viewpoinL'> to come together and engage in an academic discussion. Next year, the bishop is certainly invited to present the Church teachings in our panels, or he can appoint someone to do so for him. 
Secondly, the four-time Tony award winning playwright that the bishop refers to, Terrence McNally, screened a film adaptation of his play, "LOVE! VALOUR! COMPASSION!" Tho piece is about a group of friends who give each other love and support in the faeo of' many of' life's challenges-inducting AIDS. 
The compassion the men show each other is consistent with tho catechism.ofthe Catholic Church community to bo treatnd with "respect, compassion and sensitivity". 
The theme of the festival was one of tolerance and edueation, not a promotion ofsome sort ofgay agonda. Our lilms were earn fully selected to incorporate historical elomenL'>, award-winning film­making and religious issues. The purposo of a university education is to be presented with various viewpoinL'> and to bo abln to have an honest open discussion about difficult issues. 
For the bishop to daim otherwise or to stato that something of this sort should not happen at the Univnrsity of Notre I>ame because the students need to in some way bn shieldod lrorn such things subverts the true meaning of edm~ation. 
This year we enjoyed a tremendous amount ofsuccess and it would not have been possible without the support of tho entire South Bend community and the University. We nspedally commend the hard work of the Department of Film, Television and Theater for their tireless energy. Thanks to everyone who came out to see the films and we look forward to seeing you all next year! 
Liam Dacey 
Dirl'ctor of( )perations 
Notre Dame Queer Film Festival 200) 
Feb. 14 

ty is a false love and an ineomplnte love. If Conservative Catholics are criticized for being doso­minded or intolerant, it is because we do not aceept the misguided ideal of love posited by our society. The message "you do want you want to do and I won·'t critieizo you for it" is not thn mnssago that Jesus communicated to us in the Gospels. To seltln for being nice and tolerant or everyone falls grossly short of the love Jesus has ealled us to. 
Finally, I hope that people gel out of' thnir hnads that il' you defend Church tnaehing that you rwens­sarily halo those who disagree with it or do not livn up to it. We are all sinners; to hale othnrs for sin­ning would bo eomplotely hypocritical. And if you meet someone like that, then you are not talking to a Catholic. 
In the spirit of love and understanding, I hope that you do not dismiss all the Conservative Catholics so quickly when you son us praying outsidn during tlw Monologues. Corne say hi; we don't bite. 
David Cook 
St'lliOr 
Morrissey Hall Feb. 15 

Revealing Inaccuracies 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 
Chicago Auto Show get 
97th exhibit puts impressive cars on display at 
By RICHARD FRIEDMAN 
Scene Writer 
CHICAGO -With almost .1,000 cars spread over 1.2 million square feet of land, this year's 97th Chicago Auto Show held at McCormick Place in downtown Chicago became the largest in North America. 
After entering McCormick Place and the main Auto Show level, one was immediately struck by the dazzle and shine of all the cars parked in seem­ingly haphazard arrangements, the strong flashes and streaks of color from the walls and the huge projection screen that all make up the various surrounding exhibits. 
Upon entering the show, it seemed as if the Ford Motor Company had received the luckiest location.· With its placement right at the entry of the show, no one can help but be wowed by the line of 2005 Mustangs. Exhibiting five different Mustang mod­els including the Cobra, the Saleen and the GT, the line of low, sporty coupes that seem ready to race at any minute provided a perfect beginning to a day full of automobiles. 
Leaving the Ford exhibit behind, a natural path to the right leads through some nice but not very interesting exhibits provided by Subaru, Saturn and the Explorer van division of Ford. 

Next came one of the best exhibits at the show -provided by Buick. While it's true Buick is not exactly the most interesting of cars, the exhibit was one of the classiest with a fountain of dancing water, free coffee and hot chocolate, and some very well dis­played Lucerne CXS models. These sporty family cars are making their world debut in Chicago, and the setup certainly seems to befit such an honor. 
Unless a person is interested in everyday cars, it is easy to go quickly through the majority of the exhibits set up by Chevy, Pontiac, GMC and Dodge, stopping only to look at some of their sportier models such as the Corvette and Viper. The Vipers are displayed on the regular show floor so it is possible to get in and see what it feels like to sit in a nearly $90,000 car. Seeing the new Corvette Z06 is also a great expe­rience, and the thought of the new, most powerful Corvette engine ever (500 horsepower) really does have a magical effect. 
The Chryslers, Jeeps, Mitsubishis, Nissans, Hondas and Toyotas also pro­vide little in the way of entertainment with the exception of a few new mod­els like the Nissan Z Roadster that caught my eye. One exciting thing Jeep and Chrysler do provide, however, is a test track. The track provides an opportunity to ride in the new model cars as they are driven over a terrain that has imitated potholes, noise zones, huge puddles, steep inclines and heavy rain so one can experience the handling of the car under all those conditions. 
The second large room of the show consisted of more upper-level cars such as Porsche, Mercedes, VW, Audi, BMW, Bentley, Ferrari and Maserati, as well as more specialty vehicles such as International Truck, Mini Coopers, Scions and Smart cars. While it is impossible to talk about all of the cars in this room, some of the most signifi­cant are the International MXT Concept Truck, which was basically a $100,000 pickup truck capable of tow­ing 14,000 pounds, the Saxis Scion tC, which was a basic Scion tC model that had been upgraded by 5axis.com to include six TV monitors, a 48-inch flat screen TV in the rear and a huge, powerful stereo system by Pioneer, a convertible Mini Cooper, a Ferrari 612 Scaglietti and two Bentley Arnage models affordably priced at around $250,000. 
A return to the center of the main room allows a stop at the highlight of the Auto Show, the Shell Exotic Cars. Within the carefully roped off and guarded Shell exhibit sit some of the nicest cars ever made, including two Lotus Models, a Lamborghini Galardo and the greatest car in the entire show, the brand new Lamborghini Murcielago. Priced at just more than $319,000, the Murcielago may not be the most practical of cars, but one look at it and any person, car enthusiast or not, is sure to fall in love. The only sad thing about this display is it must be viewed from such a distance -a dis­tance that cannot even be crossed despite begging and trying to bribe the guards. But just being even that close to those cars is well worth it. 
A final trip around reveals one of the most unique exhibits in the entire show sitting directly across from the Shell cars. This exhibit features a Volvo XC90 made entirely out of LEGOs. Weighing 2, 9 30 pounds and containing 201,425 LEGOs, the car took three LEGO designers three weeks to design and five builders two months to build working fulltime. 
The Auto Show runs through the 20th and is open from 10 a.m. to 10 
p.m. every day except Sunday when it will close early at 8 p.m. Regular price tickets are a relatively high $10 a per­son given that parking is an additional $14 a car, but discount tickets can be bought at most new car dealers. Even the regular price tickets are well worth it, however, as the show is sure to provide a full day's worth of enter­tainment. 
Contact Richard Friedman at rfriedma@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wt·dnesday, February 16, 2005 
page 13 
into gear 
cCormick Place 

RICHARD FRIEDMAN!The Observer 

I Murclelago, top, the Saxis Scion tC, middle and the MXT concept truck are part of the exhibit. 
Vagina Monologues returns for fourth year 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
There was a point in Notre Dame history when V-Day might have meant candy and cards. 
That day is rapidly fading in memory. "The Vagina Monologues·: and other events promot­ed by V-Day, an organization that works to stop violence against women in countries around the world, are becoming a spring tradition. Tonight's performance of the play will mark its fourth year on campus, and interest does not yet seem to be fading. 
Since its first performance the play has moved up in the Notre Damn world, from DeBartolo llall to Washington Hall to the Stepan Center. This year the performance will bn held in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, its most prestigious location to date. Student participation in the show has also grown. Skits per­formed by single actresses in the past, such as "My Short Skirt," hav1~ been restrueturml for several performers to accommodate the number of students interested in partieipating in this year's show. 
This year, Notre Dame's performance has drawn the particular attention of "The Vagina Monologues" author Eve Ensler. Ensler arrives on campus today in the last visit of lwr col­lege tour, which has included universities such as Yale and the University of Chieago. 
Ensler will be part of a panel discussion with history professor Gail Bndnrman and English professor Glenn llendler, moderated by film, television and theatre professor Jessica Chalmers. The panel will be held in the Leighton Concert Hall at 3 p.m. The author plans to participate in the performance of "The Vagina Monologues" at 7 p.m. and will be present for a book signing after the show around 9:30 p.m. 
As student interest in "The Vagina Monologues" has grown, organizers have also increased their efforts to integrate other awareness-raising events promoted by V-I>ay with the performance. This year students from the play organized Projnet Black: Confronting tho Silenee, in which students stood in silent protest outside DeBartolo llall and North Dining IIall in protest of violence. Students also sold T-shirts and hung posters in honor of V-I>ay. 
Few students or administrators would argue against the goals of an organization that seeks to stop violence against women. "The Vagina Monologues" themselves, however, have not been received happily by many students and organizations on eampus. As some students and organizations voice their support for the play, others protest its messages on sexual issues and its use of language and situation that is often deemed taboo. 
The content can be both meaningful and difficult for the actresses in tlw play, who an~ not always cast in the skits they hoped for when they auditioned. The most eontroversial skits especially can be hard for some actresses to connect with and perform. 
Senior Erin Clarke decided to audition for the play after snning the performance and get­ting interested in the organization during her sophomore year. "I was really interested in what the movement was about," Clarke said. "I saw the show and decided it was a good thing." However, being cast in one of the play's most controversial skits about a sexual (~ncountnr between a formerly sexually abused teenager and a 24-year-old woman was not easy. "At first I didn't know [about performing the skit]." Clarke said. "But the way I think about it, it's a true story. As I've thought about it, it's a positive experience." 
Other participants have found skits that speak to them more direetly. Sophomore Beckin Hodriguez got involved with the play after seeing f1iers and the website for an organization that spoke to her own personal experiences. 
"This organization can contribute a lot, not just to society as a whole, but to Notre Dame," Hodriguez said. 
Hodriguez was cast in a skit entitled "The Memory of Her Face," which focuses on violencn against women in different countries. The segments of the skits are set in Baghdad, Islamabad and the Mexiean border town of Juarez. The town has lost around 300 young women in unexplained murders over past decade, and was the site for last year's V-Day events. 
Rodriguez, who lives in the southern Texas border town of Weslaco, was asked to perform the skit in last year's show and requested it again this year. The skit focuses on a woman named Esther, who keeps a scrapbook of the women who have died. 
"''d like to say I've enjoyed the skit," Hodriguez said. "Not in that it's fun or uplifting, but because it's important to me." 
Many actresses seem to be attracted not to particular skits and characters but to the entire goal of the play. Senior Molly Savage decided to audition for the show with her room­mate, Student Body Vice President Karla Bell. Savage had seen the play for three years, and during the third performance made the decision to audition as a senior. 
"There are certain things no one really talks about but every single woman can relate to," Savage said. "The play is all about bringing all these issues to light and making people com­fortable with them. Between laughing and crying, we said we absolutely had to do this." 
Savage was cast in "My Short Skirt," a skit that asserts that a skirt, no matter how short, is not an invitation or a provocation for unwanted advances. The skit takes on a taste of reality, since the actress appears in her-own very short skirt that made its first appearanco at the Alumni Wake. 
"I've felt a ton of sexism on this campus, that you are judged from tho moment you come in the door," Savage said. "My connection to the skit is that it shouldn't matter what you wear, people need to take a little time to discover what's inside, to discover the truth. Being a woman is so much more than wearing a short black skirt." 
As the only remaining class to witness the beginning of "The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame prepares to graduate, the organization is welcoming new members. Many freshmen and sophomores auditioned for this year's performance and seem ready to carry on the torch. For better or worse, it seems "The Vagina Monologues" are here to stay. 
"The Vagina Monologues" will be performed at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts at 7 p.m. Tickets cost $8 for students, $10 for faculty and staff and $12 for the genoral public. Tickets for the panel discussion are free and available at the door. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 16, 2005 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

South Carolina stuns No.3 Kentucky in 71-63 win 
Associated Press Connecticut turn back feisty over Bucknell on Tuesday night. 
Providence in double overtime. Mike Nardi, who also hit four 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Tarence Villanueva, a sophomore for­3-pointers, and Curtis Sumpter Kinsey scored 17 points and ward, finished with 22 points each had 14 points and Jason Carlos Powell had 12 in the sec­and 10 rebounds. He had four Fraser grabbed eight rebounds ond half to lead South Carolina points and a key rebound while to help the Wildcats (15-6) to a rare victory over No. 3 the Huskies (16-6, 8-3 Big East) bounce back from a 15-point loss Kentucky. scored seven consecutive points to No. 9 Syracuse. 
It was the first home win for to start the second overtime. "It was more of a wake-up the Gamecocks (14-8, 6-5 Rudy Gay had a 3-pointer in the call," Nardi said. "As fast as the Southeastern Conference) over run while Providence (11-14, 1-Top 25 and everything comes, as the Wildcats (19-3, 1 0-1) since 10) missed two 3-pointers to quickly it goes. That's why you 1997, and it was just South guarantee itself another close don't focus on things like that. Carolina's sixth victory in 41 loss. You just worry about the team meetings against Kentucky,· Providence's Herb Hill scored and where you're trying to go." which never looked in synch. in heavy traffic in the lane on a Villanova made 21 of its first 
Fans poured onto the court pass from Ryan Gomes to make 33 shots overall, including nine after the vietory, arguably South it 69-69 at the end of regulation. of its first 18 3-point attempts, Carolina's best in coach Dave UConn's Denham Brown made a and turned this one into a run­()dom's tenure. and Kinsey stood basket with 24 seconds left in the away early. on press row, slapping high-fives first overtime to tie it 78-78. The -wildcats' 38-point win with celebrating students. But the Friars, who have man­topped their 33-point victory at 
The Wildcats, who had won 19 aged to lose close games all sea­Rutgers last month. straight games against SEC son, ran out of gas in the second Chris McNaughton led opponents, had a season-high 21 overtime. Bucknell (17 -8) with 17 points turnovers and Chuck Ilayes was Villanueva scored on a putback and Charles Lee had 11. held to just one point. Kelenna and then, after Gomes missed a McNaughton made his first five Azubuike led Kentucky with 16 3-pointer, Gay hit a 3 to make it shots from the field and the points-five in the second half. 83-78. Donnie McGrath missed a Bisons of the Patriot League ­
The near capacity crowd final­3 for Providence and Villanueva who upset then-No. 10 ly had somnthing to cheer about got the rebound; at the other Pittsburgh last month -tied the after the Gamecocks' disappoint­end, he made a hook shot to give game at 17 -all. ing 7 4-71 home loss to Auburn the Huskies a seven-point lead. The Wildcats took over from on Saturday. South Carolina Providence never got within there, getting a three-point play added a high-profile win as it four points again. from Fraser and a 3-pointer attempts to build its NCAA tour­Gomes, a first-t.eam All­from Randy Foye that kicked oil' nament resume. The Gamecocks America last season as a junior, an 18-2 run and put them up 43­were 0-4 against ranked oppo­scored a career-high 37 points -28 at hainime. nents coming into Tuesday's including all of the Friars' 11 in Bucknell certainly had matchup, but they still have a the second overtime -to go Villanova's attention thanks to game against No. 18 Alabama. over the 2,000-point milestone in wins over Pittsburgh and Saint 
South Carolina built a 58-45 his career. The Friars had beat­Joseph's. lead with 4:16 left after an 8-0 en UConn twice in a row and "In our little Villanova ·world, run and the Wildcats never seri­were trying to beat a defending this was a good accomplishment ously threatened again. The run national champion for the sec­10 conference victories for only 17 points in the second half to for us -to get up and not take featured a three-point play and ond consecutive season. the second time in the past eight spur Ohio State to a win over possessions off," said coach Jay dunk from Carlos Powell, the Wake Forest 68, Miami 63 seasons. The latest win came Indiana on Tuesday night. Wright, who played at Bucknell Gamecocks' leading scorer who Wake Forest overcame a sub­even though Wake Forest had its Terence Dials added 14 points and was co-captain of the 1982­had been held to just two points par offensive performance lowest point total since and Jamar Butler scored a 83 team. in the first half. Tuesday night, holding Miami to December, 18 points shy of its career-high 13 for the Buckeyes The Wildcats got a scare mid­
But South Carolina pounded 33 percent shooting in the sec­average of 86 per game. (18-8, 7-5 Big Ten), who have way through the first half when the ball inside to Powell and ond half to win and retain its Eric Williams and Chris Paul won six of their last seven. The Foye took a hard fall on his back Kentucky had no answer. lead in the Atlantic Coast each scored 13 points for Wake Buckeyes took over fourth place when he was fouled on a break­
The Gamecocks had built a 12-Conference. Forest, and Justin Gray added in the conference with the win. away layup attempt, landing on point lead on some key long­The fifth-ranked Demon 11. D.J. White had 17 points and the floor and the base of the bas­range shooting by Kinsey, who Deacons enjoyed their biggest Guillermo Diaz led the Robert Vaden 14 for Indiana (11-ket support. Foye, Villanova's was averaging 9.5 points a lead at 61-53 with 4 1/2 minutes Hurricanes with 20 points, and 11, 6-5), which dropped to 1-7 second-leading scorer at 14.9 game. His fourth 3 of the game, a left. Miami rallied and had one Harris had 14. Robert Bite on the road. points, was face down for several career-high, brought the crowd shot to tie, but Anthony Harris' totaled six, 12 below his average. Villanova 89, Bucknell 51 minutes while his concerned to its feet midway through the 22-footer fell short with 5 sec­The Hurricanes shot 47 per­Villanova temporarily eased teammates stood nearby. second half. Kinsey finished with onds to go. cent in the first half but finished the sting of its worst loss of the Foye was helped up and wob­five 3s, a career-high. Wake Forest (22-3, 10-2) at 39, shooting 12-for-36 in the season with its biggest blowout bled as teammates carried him Connecticut 94, Providence 89 earned its sixth straight win. The second half. They finished 3-for-victory. into the locker room. The junior 
Charlie Villanueva had 18 streak includes two victories 18 from 3-point range. Allan Ray made four 3-pointers starting guard did not return but points and nine rebounds after over Miami (15-8, 6-6). Ohio St. 57, ln,diana 44 and scored 23 points to lead the was on the bench for the second halftime to help No. 18 The Demon Deacons reached J .J. Sullinger scored 14 of his 25th-ranked Wildcats to a victory half. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame offtce, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. WANT $1 0,000? NEED AN "don't forget about section meeting 6/1/05. $195/PERSON. INTERNSHIP? Earn a $10,000 tonight." LOST & FOUND FoR SALE Also very nice 3-bdrm available AVAIL 05-06. tuition scholarship and have one of 
NOW. 329-0308 the best summer jobs in America. "if by that you mean don't forget to LOST: Clip-on earring, silver flower 95 Cougar XR7.Low mileage,sweet Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site park-Looking for a self-starter with a turn the TV down when the RA with light purple rhinestones. ride. $4,000. Call634-4400. ing. NO Internet COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR strong work ethic and amiable per-stops by and knocks to tell us it's Lost on Sunday after 11 :45 mass Canopy access. LEASE sonality, who is responsible and has section meeting time.' between Basilica and Coleman Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 2005-2006 Academic Year. great service skills. The job entails Morse or between Coleman Morse FoR RENT Available June 1, 2005. house and property work at a beach this guy sounds like the man with and the circle. Two story house completely remod-Two(2) Bedrooms-2 Baths, estate in East Hampton, New York. the plan Reward. COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS eled 2003. Washer/Dryer, Security System, Room,board,and weekly spending Call Lori 233-3436. AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL Ready for 2005-06 school year. Fully Furnished. money included. Work from mid-i love the peanuts cartoons ... they're 
YEAR.TWO BEDROOM,TWO Off street parking includes motion Call 626-441-1275 May to mid-Aug. and must be an always so cute! BATHS. HURRY 235-7234 FOR sensor light for security. or Salvaty @ earthlink.net NO freshman or sophomore. If inter-WANTED MORE DETAIL Four individually locked bedrooms, ested, please send a short letter on oh we soo need to go on a road 
six blocks from Notre Dame, 2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. why you think you should get the trip! Local alumnus looking for experi-DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW bus stop in front of 1-car garage, job and your resume, or any ques­enced babysitter. LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 house, surrounded by other student close to ND. lions, to Ndsummerjob@yahoo.com i miss the sun! Call360-1617. SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES housing. $650/mo. that silly permacloud is taking over 
LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS-Laundromat next door (drycleaning Call317-815-1329. E-A-G-L-E-S ... Eagles! the campus! ND/SMC WOMEN: South Bend pro-ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED-also), basement available for star­fessional couple seeks responsible ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT age of bicycles,luggage,trunks,etc., Tails--thanks for a sweet V-day dan wants to take out the inflateable female student(s) to provide NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY new furnace and central air, PERSONAL -Smalls decorations 
evening/overnight care for a few SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. new kitchen including new stove days for two daughters, ages 13 & MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. and refrigerator, Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 This one's for you Adam: "See that's maria, north quad is yours for the 
7. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006· large living room for Days $299! the reason lobsters are so easy to taking Located 1 mile from campus in his-2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7-TV or entertaining, free trash Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! catch--they're too dumb to evolve." toric district. 8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES removal. Panama City, Daytona $1591 litcom panera runs are always a Must have own transportation. GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB-Call 289-4071. Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, aww i miss Cavanaugh's door-party! Get away. Earn extra money. SITE Nassau $499! man...he always had such sweet Low-stress setting. WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR 2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. 1-Award Winning Company! things to say! fingers crossed for Chile! Call 514-2169. E-mail CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-2436 car garage,close to NO. $850/mo. SpringBreakTravel.corn TomMP@ MBM.org OR 574-315-5032. Call574-329-0838. Avail.now. 1-800-678-6386 I want to major in shopping! oh how lovely! 
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Defending champions prepare for fresh start 
After satisfying fans with title, Boston is hungry for another 
Associated Press 
FOHT MYI\HS, Fla. Banners proclaiming the Hed Sox as World Series winners finally hung from lampposts outside their spring training ballpark S6 years aflnr their last championship. 
Inside, the winning pitcher in tlw game that clinched the title prepared to leave for his new team. 
Change was all around City of Palms Park on Tuesday _ from D1lrnk Lowe's departurn for the Los Angeles Dodgors camp in Voro Beach to decora­tions that represent chal­lenges as well as congratula­tions. 
Can Boston win consecutive ti ties? 
''I'm a greNiy person. I want as many as I possibly can get," right fielder Trot Nixon said. "I want to be one of those guys also that has an opportunity to take a picture and have four or. fivn rin~s on my linger with th1s tnam. 
Evm1 Lowe, who was disap­pointnd with the way his snven full seasons with the Heel Sox ended without a solid offer from the elub, wished them well. 
"You root for the guys," he said. "You hope they stay lwalthy. You hope they have a good ynar. You hope they get to the World Series. There's no bitterness toward the players because these guys are great guys. 
"It wasn't tlwir decision why ll'rnl not here, so why wish bad things upon them?" 
Lowe. who lives in Fort Mynrs, thanked the Hed Sox for lntting him work out in thoir stadium. lie planned to go to Vnro Beach on Wndnesday, one day before Boston's pitchers and eatehers arn dun to report. The entirn tnam is dun in Monday, with thn first full-squad workout nnxt Tunsday. 
l.owr. won thn clinching garn ~~ of n a e h of t hn l h r o o postsnason snrins _"I was really proud of him," manager Tnrry Franeona said Tuesday. But lw know Lowe's days wern numlwrnd baek in July when tho Hod Sox shoppnd him around bnforn the trading dnadlinn. 
Wlwn he was loft out of the playoff rotation lw had morn ineentive to finish his Boston days on a high notn. 
"In any profession, whnn somnhody tolls you ean't do something, it motivates you to go out there and prove that you can," Lowe said. 
That's something he shares with his former teammates. 
The Heel Sox swept St. Louis in the World Series, but base­ball magazines have pieked them to finish second in the AL East behind the Yankees for the oighth straight season. On paper, their rebuilt rota­tion seems weaker than New York's. Perhaps Boston's eonwbaek from a 3-0 defieit to thn Yankees in the AL champi­onship series was just a fluke. 
It may have been if Hed Sox players report to eamp with inflated egos and stomachs resulting from too much time in the offseason spotlight and too little in the gym. 
"I'd be real disappointed if guys carne in thinking" they could slack off. Nixon said. "Once January carne around you should realize that, hey, this is my profession. This is what I love to do. I don't want to play and then retire after winning a championship." 
lie was the only returning player from last year's cham­pionship team at the ballpark on Tuesday. Pitchers Wade Miller and Matt Mantei, a1:quired in the offseason, also have been working out. Miller is corning back from an injury­plagued season. 

Francona sees Mantei as a out on Tuesday. pitcher who can make a The heightened emphasis on strong middle relief corps steroids is another addition to even stronger. spring training. 
"If' there's the Nixon is
''I'd be real 
bases loaded in Boston's player the seventh disappointed if the representative inning and we guys game in and said the need a strikeout, attention won't
thinking /they 
I think Matt last long on Jose
could slack offl., 
Mantei's going to Canseeo's hook have a pretty released this good ehance of week in which
Trot Nixon 

bning success­he alleges
Boston outfielder 
ful," Francona steroid use by said. certain players. 
Two new starting pitchers, "I don't care about Jose's David Wells and Matt Clement, book," he said. "It's another hadn't arrived by the time black eye for baseball a little players, ineluding minor lea­bit but I think it's just a black guers, had finished working eye before spring training and the minute the boys start showing up for eamp, it's going to be long gone and not talkod about anymore." 
For Lowe, there still will be thoughts of his plaee in tho history of one of tlH) most suc­cessful Hod Sox teams -ospe­eially on opening day. 
''I'm going to be sitting in San Francisco watching them play on TV," Lowe said. "Now I'm a fan watehing these guys play. Now you've got to wateh !Curti Schilling and IHandyl Johnson, opening night, Yankens-Bed Sox, and not be part of it ... " 
It won't be the samn, just like the rest of the new sea­son. 


Wednesday, February 16, 2005 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
PGA 

Pro golfers demonstrate talent, staying power 
Unlike past seasons, this year's tour has had an exciting start 
Associated Press 
Be careful not to judge a PGA Tour season by the first few months. 
It was only three years ago that Tiger Woods went 10 weeks without winning and endured endless questions about a slump. By summer, he had become the first player in 30 years to capture the first two legs of the Grand Slam. 
Or look at Vijay Singh last year. 
He won just one tournament (Pebble Beach) through the Masters, and had only three trophies heading into August. By the end of the year, Singh became only the sixth man in PGA Tour history with at least nine victories. 
This promised to be a grandiose year in golf with so many top players either hitting or regaining their stride. 
So far, it has not disappoint­ed. 
The first six winners are all ranked in the top 20. All but one (Stuart Appleby) are major champions. 
Singh got off to such a strong start that he should have won the Mereedes Championships and did win the Sony Open. It looked as though he would be No. 1 for the rest of his life, or until retirement, whichever came first. 
Then it was Woods' turn. 
His victory the following week at Torrey Pines was his first stroke-play title on the PGA Tour in about 16 months, and most people figured it was only·a matter of time before Woods established himself anew as the player to beat. 
But that was before Phil Mickelson won back-to-back at Phoenix and Pebble Beach, set­ting a slew of records along the way. l-Ie tied the course record on the TPC at Scottsdale (60). broke the record at Spyglass Hill (62) and became the first wire-to-wire winner over 72 holes in the 68-year history of Pebble Beach. 
"I don't know what specifi­cally is driving everybody to play so well," Mickelson said. "But I think it's exciting for the game to see all the top players contending." 
Next up is Riviera, which also has some intriguing possibili­ties. 
The Nissan Open is the first PGA Tour event Woods played, as a 16-year-old, and it remains the only tournament he has played at least four times without winning. l-Ie returns to Riviera this week needing only to finish fourth to take the No. 1 ranking away from Singh. 

Plus, Mike Weir has a chance to become the first player to win three straight years at the Nissan Open. Canada's Lefty is coming off one of the best rounds of the year, hitting every fairway and missing only one green in the rain and wind at Pebble Beach. 
With so many players doing so well, Mickelson has high hopes for rare drama at the Match Play Championship, where two players from the top 10 have reached the finals only once since it began in 1999. 
"I think there is a good chance this year a lot of the top guys will win the first few matches and square off later in 
· the final rounds," Mickelson said. The only player missing from the mix is Ernie Els, in more ways than one. He hasn't won, although the 
Big Easy has finished in the top 10 every time he has played. And after three stops on the PGA Tour, he departed for his global travels and won't return to the PGA Tour until the mid­dle of March. 
"Many of the big names on tour ... are off to great starts in 2005," Woods said in his monthly newsletter. "That's good for golf and should make the Masters even more excit­ing." 
How long it lasts is another story. 
And one thing to keep in mind as the West Coast Swing wraps up over the next two weeks is how many of the top players will be around when the Tour Championship arrives. 
Two years ago, Els won the first two PGA Tour events, then Woods won in his first. start after knee surgery. By the end of the year, Ben Curtis was the British Open champion, and Shaun Micheel won the PGA Championship. 
Not until after the Masters, probably the U.S. Open or maybe as late as the British Open will anyone be able to get a firm grasp on how this sea­son is shaping up. 

The No. 1 spot in the world ranking could change every week from now through the­end of March, with the two­year system favoring Singh during that stretch. 
Hight now, the only sure thing looks to be Mickelson. 
Woods won at Torrey Pines, but the way he nearly whiffed a 2-iron on the 18th hole left some questions about how con­fident he is with his swing changes. Perhaps those will be answered in the next two months. 
Despite his hot start, Singh is using a new driver and has a different caddie. He has gone three straight finishes out of the top 10, and last week he missed the cut for the first time in a year. 



Comer McKinley & Grape l blk. south of Colfax Inside Martins 574.252.5820 574.288.9450 574.287.9651 
4615 Miami Road
"f:_ US.Cellular. 
Miami & Ireland 
AUTHORIZED AGENT 

574.299.2860 
'Airtrme offer llllirl on two-vear con~rmer ""rv<e agree~~nts of $49 95 or higher. Offer inr.lurtes lirstline at $49.9~' wrth :fl% acr.ess disr.nunt plus $20 Sharelaik :lil% access drsrount •~lid tor the first thtre months of atv.~rveer commrtment Airtrme and Sharfiia~ poone offers require anew ~'10-year t:Oilltuoer service agrflA!OOfll. l.rmit thrre Share lalk lineI [tt'r prunar1 line Ar=1 fre ner Sha•elalk hne rs $20/mo. Primary line must be oo aprirll pion ol $39 95 ann hrgher Promot100al nllOOe ~rhj€ct to r.hange CustooJer is res[lfln~b~ for all <;alA$ ta~P~ Nrght and Weekend Mmrtffi are vaitc1 M-f 7jliTt to ~' ~ am ancl all day Saturday and Sunday Night anJ v.~nd minutes are avdiia!Jie in local r.alling area no~ Customers pla<;iug artti rP.<:entrll{) r.alls must be US Cellular r.ustDmills and oo 1he MOOrle-to-MOOd~ IP.afirre. Mobile-to-Mooil~ minrrtes app~ tu r.alls plarllrt m<¥ rer:tleJed from aoothoriJ S. Cellular MJhsr.riber's phone. h• )l>Jr call mtfJalily for Mobile-to-Moiik; mtorrtfl5, ~JU must place or rocer.~ tr~ c-dll fu~n wirttHJ your Mobile-to-Mobile Callino /!Jea, ar<J the roaming rncl1cattl! on your phone mtrst be oU. Cal~ to/from ntrtsrrte tbe ~bhrle-to-Mobile r:alhng area w11i apfl~i triMttd vour regular plan miorrtes. Mav not be av•ilahle wrth certain offers. Th~ feature tiles not include r.alls to Vorce Services or 411. Roamrng draryes. IBFl$, wrdJaryes ar.d taxes may apply. incltxlirMJ afederal and Othor flegulattMY fee charge oi S!li. Att~-atioo tee Sll. All :;er;ire agreements suujer.t to an e.arlytemrinatioo fee. Other restnctlt~ts may app~ See siDle lor details lrmrtorl-tirrre ofler. ©2fll5 U.S. Cellular OJrpo~alttm 


•The Notre Dame Cheerleaders and Pom 
Squad will perform at halftime!
Centennial Wireless! 

•One Lucky NO Student will •First 1000 fans will receive a 3-D 
~ 


win a $500 Notre Dame Basketball Poster courtesy of Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME Bookstore Certificate! Federal Credit Union! 

Wednesday, February 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Hill 'magical' against Clippers in 99-94 win 
Jan. 8, :woo against Minnesota. 
11 ill hit 12 of' 16 shots from the 

OI!Lt\NDO. Fla.-Grant Hill field and 15 of' 16 free throws lwads to tho t\11-Star (;mnn this while playing a season-high 42 wnnknnd with a l'nnling hn hasn't minutes. had in fiw years. lin's playing-"I don't expnet to do that all tho and ho's playing woll. time anymore, but it's nice to 
llill, who will start in Sunday's know I ean still do it once in a ganw in Dnnvnr af'tnr missing while," llill said. "I really felt most of' tlw last I(HJr soasons with liko, for the lirst timo, I eould do an ankln injury, scornd a snason-what I want out thorn, and it's high 39 points to hnlp the obviously boon a long, long timn Orlando Magic to a <JC)-94 victory since that happened." ovnr tho slumping Los t\ngolos Clippnr coach Mike Dunloavy Clippers. was impressed. 
It was t.lw Magic.'s third win in "(;rant was in an attack mode l'our ganws, whilo Los t\ngolos most of' the game," Dunleavy has lost six straight. said. "We triod multiple guys 
It was I lilt's highost points total guarding him, hut wo just could­sincn lw scon~d 40 for Dotroit on n't got the job donn." 
As.'iociatcd Press 
rr"'"'--..........
~= 

Steve Francis, left, of the Orlando Magic is blocked by Lionel Chalmers of the Los Angeles DnrMarr Johnson each added 16. 
Clippers In the second quarter of Tuesday night's game. The Magic won 99-94. The Nuggets had not won in t\tlanta since Dne. 10, 1988. Overall, the NuggtJts snapped the Hawks' eight-to winning streak in the series, dating to Fob. 24, 2001.
Why spend the winter months in South The Jlawks led 59-47 at hall'­Bend when you could be studying in... 
Athens 

INCOME TAX PREPARATION 
Berlin Puebla 
DanielE Osberger, CPA & MBA Call to Meet at Your Campus Office or Home
Brazil 
Santiag.o 
W: 246-1165 C: 514-7453 
Cairo Shanghai 
OASIS FINANCIAL SERVICJ •:S Osberger Accounting Solutions & Investment Services 
Monterrey Tokyo 
203 S. Ironwood Drive South Bend, IN 46556 E-mail: Dan.Osberger@Comcast. Net
Moscow Beijing 

Application deadline for Spring '06 is May 1, 2005 
No foreign language requirements for Athens, Cairo or Tokyo 
Visit International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building Applications Available www/nd. edu/---intistud 
time and stretched the lead to 64-49 early in the third quarter on Josh Smith's jam, a two-han­dor on a pass from Josh Childrnss. 
Thn Nuggnts opened tho final pnriod with a 10-2 run to catch the I lawks. t\ thn~n-point play by Camby pulled Denvnr nvnn at X I. and Bryon Bussell's f'rnn throw 30 seconds later gavn Dnnvnr its first load sineo the opnning quar­ter. 
Minnesota 82, New Jersey 71 
Kevin Mel lain nanwd his lirsl coaching victory and MichaPI Olowokandi had 17 points and 12 rebounds in Mimwsota's vir­tory ovnr New Jnrsny. 
Kevin Carnett, who shot 0-f'or­5 from tho lloor in tlw first hall', seornd 17 points. Wally Szcznrbiak added 14 l'or Minrwsota, which won for just tlw s1~c.ond time in thl' last I 0 ganws and snl. season bests in points allowed (71 I and oppo­rwnts' l'inld goal pnrcnntagn C~ I.OL 
Vinrn Cartnr had 25 of' his :~2 points in thn lirst half' for Nnw Jnrsny, which got a snason-high 1 X points from Hon Mnrcnr, hut little 1~lsn from anyonn nlsn a1'11'r halftinw. t\l'ter taking a 19-5 load midway through tho first quartPr, tho Nnts scored at a ratn harl'ly bettor than a point pnr minut.P. 
t\s Minnesota's vic.t~ prnsidl'nl of' basketball opnrat.ions, McllaiP firnd l'lip Saundnrs on Saturday, tlw first action talwn by rnanagn­nwnt in rnsponsn to this highly disappointing season. 
Tho Timhnrwolves' various problnms havn includl'd rnbounding, nf'l'ort and shot snlnetion, but they boxnd out. consistently, play1~d hard and moved tho ball wnll against thP Nets. 
Olowokandi, whoso produetion at cnritnr has bnen largnly miss­ing since signing with Minnnsota before last snason, npitomiznd thn mnaissanee. 
As good as IJill was for the lirst 47 minutElS, the Magie turned to Steve Francis when they had to dose out the game. 
Clippers guard Bobby Simmons, who had 20 points, made two free throws to cut what had been a nine-point del1eit in the fourth quarter to 91-89 with 59 seconds left. 
Francis then made back-to­back jumpers, the second with 17 seconds remaining to give his team a 95-90 lead. Francis fin­ished with 16 points and seven assists in just 29 minutes. 
"Grant put us in position throughout the game, hut Steve has been making the clutch shots f(Jr us all season," Magie eoach 
AP 

Johnny Davis said. "lie was out of' sorts because of l(ml problems for most of the game, but again, late game, Steve found a way to get it done." 
Denver 100, Atlanta 96 
Carmelo Anthony's jump shot with nine-tenths of' a second to play gave the Denver Nuggets their lirst victory in Atlanta since 1988 over the llawks. 
t\nthony led the Nuggets with 22 points as Denver endnd a 14­game losing strnak in t\tlanta. 
Arter leading by 15 points in the third period, the Ilawks fal­tered and lost tho lead early in the linal quartnr. 
With 2:29 loft to play, Tony Dnlk missed two frne throws for Atlanta and Obinna Eknzin was eallnd f(Jr a foul in a serambln for the ball al'tnr thn sneond miss. Marcus Camby hit two l'rnn throws to give Dnnvnr a 9CJ-95 load. 
Ekezin mado onn of two fnw throws with 2:11 left to tin the game at 96. 
Following a miss by Denver's t\ndre Miller, tlw llawks got tho ball and t\tlanta coach Mike Woodson did not call a timeout. t\ntoino Walker lirnd an air ball on a l'allaway jumper,Dnnvnr rebounded and called tinwout with 6.8 seconds left. Tlwn t\nthony launched the winning shot from thn lert wing. 
The Hawks thrnw away their inbound pass. Earl Boykins added two free throws for tho linal margin. 
Walknr lnd thn I Iawks with 22 points and 12 rebounds. Delk fol­lowed with 19 points. 
Cam by had 17 for Dnnver, and Kenyon Martin and former Ilawk 

Wednesday, February 16, 2005 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
Steroid discussion dominates spring training 
With 45 days until their season opener, players are defensive 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Usually, the start of spring training is a time of dean slates, sun-splashed fields and endless hope. 
Not this year. 

Steroids were the No. I topic Tunsday, when the new Washington Nationals, the New York Yankees and the Cincinnati R1~ds opened camp. 
,. "It doesn't go away, unfortu­natnly," Yankees manager Joe Torro said in Tampa, Fla. Pitehnrs and catchers on seven more teams report Wednesday, and workouts begin Thursday, 45 days before the World Series champion Boston Hnd Sox and Yankees play the major league opener April 3. The Minnesota Twins will be the last team to report, on Sunday. Ken Griffey Jr. ran for the Hnds' nwdical staff in Sarasota, Fla., showing how far he has rocovered from surgery on his torn right hamstring. Pedro Martinnz, an early arrival at the Nnw York Mots' camp, worked out in Port St. Lucie, Fla. And Trot Nixon kept up the Yankees­Hnd Sox sniping, saying of Alex Hodriguez: "He can't stand up to IDerekI Jeter in my book or Bernie Williams or [Jorge] Posada." The Nationals had the most complicated journey to spring training. After 36 seasons as the Montreal Expos, the team morphed into Washington's first major league team since the expansion Senators became the Texas Rangers after the 1971 season. Owned by major league base­ball since early 2002, the team was uncertain of its fate for three seasons before the move to the nation's capital was final­ized in December. As camps opened, there was a new steroid report. The New York Daily News said Tuesday that an FBI agent in Ann Arbor, Mich., told baseball security head Kevin Hallinan about 10 years ago that Jose Canseco and other players were using illegal anabolic steroids. "I alerted Major League Baseball baek in the time when we had a case, that Canseco was a heavy user and that they should be aware of it," Special Agent Greg Stejskal was quoted as saying. "I spoke to the people in their security office, Hallinan was one of the people I spoke to." Calls to Stejskal's offiee in Ann Arbor and to FBI headquarters in Washington were referred to the ·Detroit FBI office, where spokeswoman Agent Dawn Clenney said Stejskal and the agency would have nothing to say. Hallinan was traveling and did not return telephone calls seeking comment. He told the News he never was contacted then about steroid use. "I have absolute confidenee in his integrity," said Sandy 
There are a number of possibil­itins. We want to see if there is some reasonable view of his explanation and Kevin's." 
Canseco's autobiography, pub­lished this week, aceused the Yankees' .Jason Giambi and oth­ers of using steroids. 
"I think that the problems that are out there are coming to the surface, which I think is good for baseball," Red Sox manager Terry Francona said in Fort Myers, Fla. 

Still, baseball's new drug-test­something," Nixon said. ing agreement -calling for Baltimore shortstop Miguel harsher penalties and more fre­Tejada, among the players quent testing -remains in the aceused by Canseco, denied drafting phase. Baseball man­that he used steroids. agement expeets the new rules "Any inference made by Jose to bn in place by the mandatory Canseeo that I used steroids is rnporting date, March 1. complete false," Tejada said in 
"I know that we were well on a statement. "! barely knew our way to having serious .Jose during his career, so it is steroid testing, drug testing, ridiculous for him to suggest we and we still are and we didn't ever had discussions regarding need a book to come out and their use. I work very hard to tell us that we needed to do keep in shape and any sugges-
Now, 
tion that I use steroids, or any banned substance, is insulting and not worth discussing fur­ther." 
At Boston's camp, Nixon wast­ed little time in adding some boil under basflball's most heat­ed rivalry, joining Curt Schilling in the criticism of Hodriguez. 
"He's done some gn~at things on the field. lie's OIH' of the best baseball players in the game and probably will be wlwn it's all said and done," Nixon said. 


-(<us.Cellular 
We connect with you~ 

klderson, executive vice presi­dent for baseball operations in Unlimited CALL ME Minutes are not deducted from packaged minutes and are only available in the local calling area. Local calling area differs from regional calling area. Mobile Messaging -a charge of $.10 per outgoing message applies if no messaging package is selected or existing package limit is exceeded. Picture Messaging requires U.S. Cellular-approved phone and
the commissioner's offiee. "We 
usage plan. Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes valid Monday through Friday 9 p.m. to 5:59 a.m. and all day Saturday and Sunday. Night and weekend minutes are available in local calling are looking into the situation area. Local calling area differs from regional calling area. See map and rate sheet for details. Offer valid only on two year consumer service agreement on local and regional plans of $39.95 or higher. Monthly Access Discount: 50% access discount valid for the first 3 months of a 2 year agreement on plans $39.95 and up. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee.
deseribed by the agent to see if 
Credit approval required. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges, overage charges and taxes apply. $0.55 Federal and Other Regulatory charge applies. This is not a tax we ean figure out what exactly or government required charge. local network coverage and reliability may vary. Usage rounded up to the next full minute. Use of service constitutes acceptance of our terms and conditions. took place. There may have Other restrictions apply. See store for details. Umited time· offer ©2005 U.S.Cellular Corporation. 
been someone else he talked to. 
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles hungry to get back in playoff race 

Team hopes to recover from five-game losing streak at Kalamazoo 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's m~c~ds to stop the blooding. 
.Just thren weeks ago, tho Bolles stood in a tlm~n-way tie for fourth place in tho MIAA. Thn tl~am's main eoneern was linishing alone in the coveted fourth position and hosting a first-round tour­narnnnt game. 
playnrs I down low and the guards on the wings," Boyce said. "Wn need to concentrate on taking them to the basket and pushing tho ball down floor bncause we can dnlinitnly seorn some easy points oil' them that way." 
Belles freshman Allison Kessler remembers Kalamazoo for its aggressive style of play. 
"I think wn can exploit thnm because they arc so aggres­sive," Kosslor said. "We just need to play our game and not bn forc~od into turnovers." 
If Saint Mary's hopns to win, though. it must reverse a recent 

After losing its "This game is· nnxt fivn eon­
extremely important 

tnsts, however, Saint Mary's along with our now must linish 
attitudes. We all have 

tlw snason 
positive attitudes and

strong to nvnn nnsurn an are really looking for appnaraneo in 
this win." 

thn lirst round. Tlw BcdlPs (9­
Bridget Boyce 

14, 4-10 MIAAI. eurrnntly tied Belles guard 
with Adrian Collngn for scw­nnth plaen in.thn nine-team lnagun. facn a must-win game tonight at Kalamazoo 7:30p.m. 
SirH~n tlw toams that finish in Pighth and ninth plaeos must participato in a tournament play-in ganw to narn thH right to play t.hn top seed in the lirst round, tlw Bnllns son tonight's gamn and evnry suhsNJunnt n~gular snason ganw as cTucial to thnir postsnason hopes. 
"This gamn is nxt.remnly 

important along with our game on Saturday." guard BridgPt Boyen said. "Wn all havn positive atlitucll~s and arn n~ally look­ing for this win. Hight now wn aren't nvnn thinking about that play-in ganw." 
Saint Mary's takos eonfidc~nen from its earlier dnfnat this sea­son of Kalam­
solid 40 minutes. play a whole gamo." 
Boyce feels the Belles' prob­lem has been finishing off teams. 
"In the second half we just arnn't dosing the deal," Boyce said. "In tho last five or 10 min­utes of t.ho gamo we usually have tlw lead, and we are just lotting it slip away." 
If Saint Mary's doos manage to dnfnat. tho llornots and then 
"We just haven't been playing well. We are definitely looking to turn that around tomorrow at Kalamazoo and come out and play a solid 40 minutes, play a whole game. " 
Allison Kessler Belles guard 

azoo. On .Jan. 19, thn Bnllns outlastod tho llornnts (J4-6:~ in a l'inrrn hatlln at tlw Angola Athlntir Cnntnr. Saint Mary's fl'nls it lc~arnnd a groat doal about Kalamazoo in that ganw and c:an usn that knowlndgn to its advantagP tonight. 
"They rnally ovnrplay Iour 
trend of poor play. Players admit the tnam's performance in the last five games has been unacceptable. 
"We just havon't been playing well," Kessler said. "We are defi­nitnly looking to turn that around ltodayl at Kala­mazoo and eome out and play a 
boat last place Olivet on Sat­urday, it could make a huge jump in the dose MIAA sta­ndings. II' the Belles win out and receive some help, the l.f1am could potentially finish the regular sea­son in fifth placo. Saint Mary's would then likely face fomth place Tri-State in the first 
round of tho tournanwnt. 
"Wo have beat them twice already so we would be very conl'idont heading into that ganw." Knsslnr said of a match­up with Tri-Stato. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
MLB 

Nationals arrive at camp 
Washington's new baseball franchise is ready to start season 
Associated Press 
VIERA, Pia. -Their dispo­sitions were as sunny as the !'lorida day that greeted them, their outlook as bright as tho immaculate red prac­tice jerseys that hung in neat rows along tho lockers. Pitehers, catehcrs and assort­nd other players reported for spring training at Space Coast Stadium on Tuesday, flush with relief and satisfaction that they are something new called the Washington Nationals. 
"It's been a long journey," cateher Brian Schneider said. "We've wanted this for a while, and it's here now. We're ready for it, that's for sure." 
Tho vagabond days of tho Montn~al Expos are over. Sure, the players said all the right things and persevered as best they could as they dealt with tho throat of con­traction and then two years of "home" games in Puerto Hico. But no one came close to remembering the last three years as good ol' days now that they're done. 
"Last year was oven worse," piteher Zach Day said. "Boeause wo aetually knew what we were going to have to go through. The year bel'ore, we didn't know. So going into last year. we were already down bel'ore we even started." 
No such negative feelings this year,· even if tho team is nxpoeted to l'inish last again in the NL East. At least six position players -including big bats Brad Wilknrson, Nic:k .Johnson and Jose Vidro ­were among those reporting, checking in five days earlier than required. 
"No team in major league baseball's ever done what we did," Wilkerson said. "It was very tough on us, physically and mentally. To say we wore going to eompotc .through the whole season was very tough, and I think it was unrealistic. But now we've got a home. Thorn's no more excuses. We go out there and play baseball and try to win ball games." 
Tho first player to report was pitcher T.J. Tueker, who surveyed the loekcrs and nameplates amid the sea ol' red jerseys and asked, "Whore am I? Did they reicase me·alroady'?" 

"It's a little different," said manager Frank Hobinson, returning for a l'ourth year with the team. "It's a little brighter, seeing that red in there. Sometimes you say, 'Am I in the Cardinals' dub­house?' But it's great. I like the unil'orms." 
The Nationals logo appears throughout tho stadium, although the word "Expos" still appears on a eoupln ol' signs and thn seats remain tnal !'rom thn l'aeility's days as the Florida Marlins' spring homo. Several playPfs still earried their gear in big blue "Expos" bags. All were buoyed by tho news that the Nationals are approaching the oquivalent of' 20,000 season tickets sold, far exceeding the sparse crowds in Montreal. 
"It hasn't hit me as mueh as it's going to hit me when we got there f'or opening day,'' Wilkerson said. "To see those people in the ballp.ark, and then you come the rH~xt night, and you're going to see just as many people. Anybody ean sell out opening day, but that next night, thorn's probably going to be just as many. We're used to it tapering ofT protty good after the op(ming night." 
The pitchers, catchers and staff' will have thnir physieals Wndnesday and take to thn 11eld Thursday. During camp, the players will get a briefing on the Washington area, o!Toring adviec on how to gPt around and wlwro to search l'or places to live in an arna that most have randy, or never, visited. 

"It's a l'resh start." Hobinson said. "What wc~'re looking at now is wn have an 1won play­ing liclld, likn ovnrybody c~lsn. Wn have a permanent honw. We have our l'ans that will lw supporting us, and tho sdwd­ule is tlw sanw as everyone nlsn. They always said, 'Well, those aro homn gamns in Puort.o Hieo,' but wn wnro on thn road." 
The shnnr ennrgy and lwttnr altitude crnatPd by the movl' to Washington should moan more wins this year, along with tho return or snvoral injurnd players and the addi­tions or new ones. Interim g c nora I nHt.n ago r· .I i m Bowdon's ol'f'soason haul ineludod Vinny Castilla, Cristian Guzman, Jose Guillnn and Estnban Loaiza, <tnd lw's probably not donn. 
"I expect this tnam to play · bettor baseball than IB wins." said Hobinson, rel'er·ring to the surprising S:{-71) records or 2002 and 20(1:{ hnl'orn last year's plummet to (J7-9!i. 
Happy 
21st 
Birthday 
Mark 

Bruno's Pizza AFamilv Tradition Since 1915 
2610 Prairie Ave. • Accepting reservations for JPW South Bend, IN 46614 • Seating available for 2 to 100 514-288-3320 • Graduation reservation 
• 
Come Join a Family Tradition 

• 
Every Tuesday and Thursday Student Buffet 


visit www.brunosplzza.com 

.------------------------------------------------­
OUND THE NATION 


page 20 
NBA 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Division team record perc. GB L 10 Philad~lphia 26-26 .500 7-3 
.~
Boston 26-26 .500 6·4 
New Jersey 22-29 .431 3.5 7-3 
Toronto 21·31 .404 5;0 H 
New York 20-32 .385 6.0 2·8 
Central Division 
team record perc. GB LlO Detroit 31-19 .620 8-2 Cleveland 29-20 .592 1.5 5·5 Chicago 24-23 .511 5.5 6-4 Indiana 24-26 .480 7.0 4-6 Milwaukee 20-29 .408. 10.5 5·5 
Southeast Division 
team fACOrd perc. GB L 10 Miami 39-14 .736 9·1 Washington 30-21 .588 8.0 4·6 Orlando 27-24 .529 11.0 5·5 Atlanta 10-39 .204 27.0 2·8 Charlolle 10-39 .204 27.0 2-8 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Northwest Division 
team record perc. GB L10 
Sealtle 35·14 .714 7·3 
Minnesota 25·27 .481 11.5 2·8 
Denver 23·28 .451 13.0 6·4 
Portland 21-29 .420 14.5 5·5 
Utah 17-34 .333 19.0 3-7 
Pacific Division 
team record perc. GB L 10 Phoenix 41·12 .774 8·2 Sacramento 33·18 .647 HI 5·5 LA. Lakers 25-24 .510 14.0 3~7 LA. Clippers 23·28 .451 17;0 4-6 Golden State 14·37 .275 26.0 2-8 
Southwest Division 
team record perc. GB 
San Antonio 40-12 .769 
Dallas 33-16 .673 5.5 
Houston 31·21 .596 9.0 
Memphis 30-22 .577 10.0 
New Orleans 11-41 .212 29.0 
USFCA Fencing Polls 


CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Jose Canseco's auto­biography that accuses several top players of steroid use and charges baseball management long ignored performance-enhancing drugs got off to a fast start on its first day of publi­cation. 
Amazon.com listed "Juiced: Wild Times, Rampant 'Raids, Smash Hits, and How Baseball Got Big" as third on its best seller list Monday. 
The book had an initial printing of 150,000 copies but it was unclear how many copies were bought. Regan Books does not disclose sales figures, spokeswoman Jennifer Suitor said. 
"I don't think it's a good thing, obvi­ously, because it's bringing a bad light to the game," New York Yankees 
IN BRIEF 

NHL makes last offer to 
players' union 
NEW YORK -The NHL made its final offer just hours before it was set to cancel the·season. 
The league bumped its salary-cap proposal from $40 million to $42.5 million Tuesday and gave the players' association until 11 a.m. Wednesday to accept. If they reject it, the season would be canceled two hours later, according to a letter sent by commis­sioner Gary Bettman to players' asso­ciation exeeutive director Bob Goodenow. 
"This offer is not an invitation to begin negotiations -its too late for that," Bettman said. "This is our last ell'ort to make a deal that's fair to the players and one that the dubs [hope­fully] can afford. We have no more flexibility and there is no time for further negotiation." 
In the final bargaining session between NHL chief legal officer Bill Daly and players' association senior direetor Ted Saskin, the league captain Derek Jeter said Monday. "This is a time, obviously, baseball is in a negative light and Jose is not helping out. In terms of his accusa­tions, the only people that know are him and whoever he is accusing. The unfortunate thing is, if it's not true, you're looking at guys having to defend themselves over something they haven't done." 
Mark McGwire, one of the former teammates Canseco accused of using steroids, issued a written denial. 
"The relationship that these allega­tions portray couldn't be further from the truth," McGwire's statement said. "I also worry how these false allega­tions will taint the accomplishments of the Oakland Athletics' coaches, players and executives who worked so hard to achieve success during the 
dropped its longstanding demand for a link between revenues and player costs. 
In return, the union came off its reluctance to a salary cap -and proposed one. 
The cap the players offered was a soft cap of $52 million, a source close to the negotiations told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. Teams would be allowed to spend up to 10 percent above that three times in six years, but would be subject to an escalating luxury tax on anything above $40 million. Judge rules ag_ainst Williams in appeal heanng 
MIAMI -An arbitration ruling that ordered Ricky Williams to repay thn Miami Dolphins $8.6 million was uphnld Tuesday by a fl~deral judge, who rejected arguments that the award disregarded Florida law and was excessive. 
U.S. District Judge James Cohn ruled arbitrator Hichard Bloch was "well within the scope of his authori­era in question, along with the other players and organizations all'ected by this book. 
"Most concerning to me is the nega­tive effect that sensationalizing steroids will have on impressionable youngsters who dream of one day becoming professional athletes. Once and for all I did not use steroids or any other illegal substance." 
McGwire was not available for interviews . 
In the book, Canseco is an unabashPd advocate of performance­enhancing drugs. 
"By the time my 8-year-old daugh­ter, Josie, has graduated from high school, a majority of all professional athletes-in all sports-will be tak­ing steroids. And believe it or not, that's good news," he writes.
Men 
1 Ohio State 2 Penn State 3 St. John's 4 NOTRE DAME 5 Columbia 6 Princeton 7 Pennsylvania 8 Harvard 9 Stanford 10 Air Force 
Women 
Ohio State NOTRE DAME Penn State Harvard Columbia Northwestern St. John's Pennsylvania Princeton Temple 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
around the dial 
NBA 
Golden State at Seattle 9 p.m., ESPN 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Virginia at North Carolina 7 p.m., ESPN Georgetown at NOTRE DAME 8 p.m., ESPN Classic Nebraska at Oklahoma 9 p.m., ESPN2 

ty" in his interpretation of the case. 
Williams breached his contract when he rPtired abruptly last July. Bloch ruiAd in September that under the terms of the contract, he was required to repay the Dolphins ·$8.6 million in bonus money he had received. Academic information will be released by NCAA 
INDIANAPOLIS -Colleges and universities will begin receiving information about their tAams' aca­demic performance within the next week, a move that could lead to some schools losing scholarships next fall. 
The reports will be made available to the public on Feb. 28. 
NCAA off'icials said Tuesday they believe about 20 percent of men's basketball tnams and 30 percent or football teams risk immediate penal­ties based on data collPcted from the 2003-04 school year. But penalties will not be imposed until after om­dais collect data from 2004-05. 
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
"Our focus for thn soason has hPnn to snn if wn could win our first Big Hast Championship," ('()ach Tim Wnlsh said. "For tho rwxt Wl'l'k, WP rwnd to focus only on what wn can control and !thai. isl our pnrformancn. We're paying no alt1mtion to t.hn scorn­hoard and trying to racn as wnll as wn can in thn morning and again at night." 
The Big East Championships involvP a rigorous sclwduln sprPad out during the rwxt. four days. Starling with one s11ssion on Wndrwsday night, the Irish tlwn will rompnl11 in two sos­sions pnr day on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The morn­ing snssions determine which swimrnnrs advance to the nvnning's linal evnnts with tho opportunity to scorn points. 
"Tho biggest challengn is to swim fast seven sessions in a row," Welsh said. "Wn havn to qualify in tho right positions in tho morning and then win the places at night." 
Thn still'nst ehallnngP for Notre Damn will como from Pittsburgh, Uw night-tinw defending confer­once champion. Last February, tlw Irish posted their highest­nvnr point total and finished soc­ond to tho l'anthors. 
"Obviously we look at Pittsburgh as the defending champion, and they have bonn 

the mark of excellence in our confornnce," Welsh said. "But we don't want to make tho mis­takn of assuming this is a two­team race because maybn somn­onn else is going-to swim great. Wn want to swim as fast as we can snvon times' in a row and tlwn say, 'This is the bost wo can do. Can anybody boat this'?"' 
The Irish edged out tho Panthers in their only meeting during the regular snason. Winning by a scorn ol' 155-145, Notrn Dame edged Pittsburgh in the 400-yard freestyle relay by 
0.4 seconds for the victory. 
The team's depth that kept them dosf1 in the Pittsburgh win will again bo a erueial faetor in this week's competitions. 
"What makes us a contender is that we have a balancnd snt of entries in every swimming <Wont and every diving event." Wolsh said. "If we're going to swim well seven sessions in a row, it's going to take every one of us and that's the way it's been all ynar." 
While winning the Big East title is their main goal, tho Irish also would like to qualify 'swim­mnrs for the NCAA Champion­ships, which take plaee in March. Both goals of tPam and individual success intorsod with tho tnam's pnrformaneo over the next days. 
"We havo a team goal to win the Big East !Jut we also want to send some swimmers to the national championships as well," Welsh said. "And the road to both of them is tho samn. We only get to do onn or both of thmn by swimming faster than we ever have in our livns." 
The wait is ovnr. !\ year's worth of hard work has put lhP Irish in position to eompntn for the Big Hast title. 
"It's exciting to do somnthing you've bPPn prnparing to do for a long time and wn arl' lin•d up about that.~' Welsh said. 1r it doesn't work -if we swim faster than we nvnr havn in our lives -and sonwonn swims fastM, we'll say 'Congratulations. nieo going and we'll try again next y1~ar.' But swimming l'asl.Pr t.han wn ever have in our lif'n is what this mnnt is all about." 
Contact Rama Gottumuklmla at rgottumu@nd.edu 
Attention First-Year MBAs Would you like to earn a FULL TUITION fellowship for your second year? The William G. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA program a grant that covers full tuition for the second year f()r two MBA students! Applicants must comply with the following criteria: •Must currently be enrolled full-time in the first year of the MBA program. •Must currently have a3.0 GPA. •Must submit a 500-1000 word essay on the contributions of William G. McGowan, founder and Chairman of MCI, to today's business world in general or to the telecommunications field in particular. •Must submit one letter or recommendation from a faculty member. ·Must exhibit attributes such as scholarship, talent, leadership qualities, character and community involvement. All First Year MBAs are eligible, excluding those that are already receiving afull tuition fellowship. DEADLINE: Applications are due in the MBA Office by Friday, February 25, 2005 Winners will be announced in the spring. Contact: Brian.Lohr.l @nd.edu  
Id!/tAmerican Cancer Society Id!/t Daffodil Days $6 for a Bunch of Flowers $4 for a Vase Orders Due by Monday, February 28, 2005 Flowers will be delivered Thursday, March 17, 2005 You can place an order in your dorm, or you can emaiI or campus maiI orders to: Michele Taets (mtaets@nd.edu, 307 Badin Hall) (Include your name and address with the amount of bunches/vases) Please make checks payable to: American Cancer Society  

Tradition 
continued from page 24 
at least 40 points ahead of thn eompetition in both evonts. 
Also leading tho Irish charge will bo sophomore Katie Carroll and junior Christo I Bouvron. 
Carroll is the defending Big East Champion in the 200 individ­ual mndley, and has postnd NCM cuts in both the 200 and 400­metor individual nwdley. ller 200 IM timo of 2 minutes, 3.75 sec­onds against Michigan earlinr in the season is the fastnst in the Big East this year. 
Bouvron also owns one of tho fastnsl Big East times this year. !lor mark of 2:02.95 in tho 200­meter butterfly -also against Michigan -was by far the best in tho eonlerence. Bouvron is a two­time Olympian for her native Singapore, and she finished 32nd in tho 200 huttnrlly at the 2004 Olympics (;amns in 1\thnns. 
Tho Irish and their Big East opponnnts will swim the 200­mntnr nwdlny and the HOO-nwtPr frenstyln rnlay thn first day. l.ast ynar, Notre Damn took filurt.h and sneond-plaen finishes rospnctivnly in thosn evnnL'i last year. 
On Thursday tlw Irish will swim the 500-mntnr freestyle, 200 IM, 50 l'ron and 200 !'ron rnlay. 
The Irish will eomj>etn in llw 400 IM, 200 l'rnnstyln, HlO huttPr­lly, 100 brnast.'itrokn, 400 mndll•y rnlay and 100 backstroke on Friday. 
And on tho final day of' compnti­tion, thn 1 ,650 and 100 frnnstyln, the 200 backstroke, bn1aststrokn and butterfly, as well as t.lw 400 f'renstyln relay will takn placn. 
"It's going to b11 pretty interest­ing," Weathers said. 
Contact Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 16, 2005 
Duo 
continued from page 24 
take it to the basket and be aggressive I was going to try it." 
Notre Dame struggled shooting the ball early, mak­ing just one of its first 12 shots, which allowed Boston College to take a 16-3 lead at the 9:12 mark. Batteast and LaVere each missed their first three shots, while Kindyll Dorsey drained two 3-pointers to help push the Eagles to a double-digit advantage. 
Boston College opened a 26-11 lead on Dorsey's sank the ensuing free throw at 16:58. Duffy, who was scoreless in the first half, caught fire after the break, with eight points and three assists during the first three minutes of the second half. 
But the Eagles came storm­ing back and scored seven of the next nine points to regain their halftime edge of 11. Notre Dame refused to fold and cut the lead back down to just five, at 39-34, when Duffy assisted Tuylah Gaines on a layup. 
The teams battled back and forth for the next several minutes until the Irish took the lead 43-42 on a Charel Allen layup. It was Notre Dame's first lead since 3­
third 3-"/ think. defensively we 2. pointer with Boston
played a pretty good 
1:57 re­College
game, especially in the
maining. responded But the second half That's what with a field Irish ended goal, but the
we have to do. We just
the half Irish took the
have to play solid 
with four lead for good much-need­defense." when Duffy ed points sank two w h e n free throws
Muffet McGraw 
Batteast hit with 2:23 left 
Irish coach 
to put Notrea jumper and Borton sank two free throws to trim the Eagles' advantage to 26-15. The Irish scored a season­low 15 points on 5-of-23 shooting in the opening 20 minutes, which was five fewer points than their previ­ous futile mark, set against Rutgers Jan. 23. 
Notre Dame cut the Boston College lead to 32-26 when Megan Duffy hit a baseline bankshot, drew the foul and 
Dame ahead 
44-43. 
The Irish held Boston College to just 21 second-half points, forcing the Eagles to take tough shots. 
"I think defensively we played a pretty good game, especially in the second half," McGraw said. "That's what we have to do. We just have to play solid defense." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Offense 
continued from page 24 
emerge from its toughest four-game stretch with a 2-2 record. 
-"I think the one thing you can say right now is we improved our NCAA tourna­ment resume, even though we didn't go 4-0," Brey said. "Two of those wins really jumped us." 
But against the Panthers, the Notre Dame fronteourt man­aged just four points. Though the Irish can rely on their guards, Brey prefers the bal­ance begin _down low. 
"It needs to start inside," he said. "You start with low post touches. You can always kick it back out for a shot, but at least put some pressure on the defense and throw it in there so they have to respect the big guys." 
The Irish offense must remain patient, however, because it cannot give the ball back immediately to a patient and poised Hoya offense, Brey said. 
Georgetown is led by for­ward Brandon Bowman, who averages a team-high 15.3 points and 6. 7 rebounds per game. 
Cook, Jonathan Wallace and either Darrel Owens (seyen starts} or Hibbert (15 starts) join Bowman in the starting lineup, along with 6-foot-8, 
225-pound  freshman  Jeff  
Green.  
Green  (13.2  points,  7.2  

rebounds) earned Big East Rookie of the week honors for the fifth time this season last 


week, with 21 points and nine rebounds in a 6 7-60 win over West Virginia Saturday. 
Notre Dame had beaten Georgetown four straight times before losing at the MCI Center in January. 
The Irish, who have played five of their last seven games on the road, will play four of their last six regular season games at home starting tonight. 
The Irish and Hoyas tip off at 8 p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 



Wednesday, February 16, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
--------------.. E--------------.. ~---------------. 
~ ~ 
I JUSTI'M COLLECTING 

g MY TAXES ALREADY => I CANT BE
PUT THATMONEY FOR TED'S RESPONSIBLEl SUBSIDIZE HIS OTHER : FIVE INBABY SHOWER. 

~ BRATS. I'M TAKING e FOR YOUR
THERE! 

) 

POOR FISCAL PLANNING. 
~ A REFUND. ~ 


CHARLES SCHULZ

PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JJl1JM~rE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I 
!02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
THRIM I 
[J [J 
I YOCKEJ j 

WHf"N THf" KNIGHT MAOf" A 5N10f"
rxx 
Rf"MARK, IT
www.jumble.com 
Rf"SUL-Tf"O IN A--­
tDINCAR j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I J r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: ..r 

I I I I J' INHISr I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: NUDGE DOWNY POTENT ANYWAYYesterday's I 
Answer: What the children did when Mom brought home cookies-PUT THEM "AWAY" 

CROSSWORD 
WlLLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 39 Fallen Russian 71 Carol time orbiter

1 Blast from the 72 Short hours of past? 40 Men's operation? accessories
6 Artsy 73 Ohm's symbol Manhattan area 43 You~g newt 
10 Pest control 44 "How sweet DOWN
brand !" -off coupon 46 Cable 1 Coolers. for Superstation 
short

15 Pizazz 47 Arrow poison 2 Sri Lanka export 
16 It's west of the Isle of Man 3 Ltr. container
49 Israeli desert 11 Ad come-on #1 region 4 Clambake clam 
20 Suffix with buck 51 With 29-Down, 5 Mikhail ad come-on #3
21 The Virgin Is., Romanov, e.g. e.g. 
53 Lover of 6 Detonate Aphrodite22 Lace into 7 "That Devil55 Mouse's place 

25 Washington's Calledlove" Stadium 56 2.0 grades 
8 Doe's mate 27 Moon of Mars 57 Knotted, 
9 Right turn _scorewise31 See 23-Down 10 Get intelligence59 Grow tiresome 34 Left Bank locale from61 Ad come-on #435 Fine arbitrarily 

11 Intelligence grp.
68 "Hold it !"

36 Fair-hiring abbr. 
12 Table scrap 38 Show off one's 69 Shade provider 37 Makes 50 In 62 Buckeyes'·sch.

13 Born in France

biceps 70 Nary a soul unreadable, in a (occurring 63 Rolodex no.
18 Surrender way naturally) 
64"_got an

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 19 "_ Tu" (1974 52 Opened wide idea"
41 Fall back 
hit) 54 Navratilova rival 65 Underwater

42 Catch some

-=+*':+.7-1 22 Endurance eggs
rays 

58 Fargo's state: ...,.:.+:+.~ 23 With 31-Across, 66 It's east of the 
Abbr.
45 Get older 

ad come-on #2 Isle of Man: 
60"_ extra cost!" 
Abbr.

•::-~-:::+.C:-~-::+.::-1 24 Explorer 48 Ping-Pong Vespucci locale 61 Roll-call call 67 Bounding main 
26 Stays current For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
28 Car rental info

-;-t-:-t;+;::;-1 credil card, 1-800-814-5554. .-~::+:'-! 29 See 51-Across Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
l!!lt-:+.:+.:-i 30 Hockey teams, 

e.g. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
32 School mo. 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
~~:+.=t7:1 

---L.-'---L-"--' 33 Louis XIV, e.g. solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address __________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Harvey Korman. 7H: Mall Groening. 
51: Melissa Manchester, 54: Jane Seymour, 54 
Happy Birthday: Don't go looking li>r lrouhlc this year. Do whatever is necessary lo keep the peace and engage in activities that will bring you in mnlacl with people who can help you J'orge ahead. This can he a productiw year J'or you as long as you don't spread yoursell' too thin. Your numbers arc I0, 22, 31 ..B, :lX, 42 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Concentrate on what you can do, not what you can't. You will discover that someone who interests you will want to include you in something he or she is working on or doing. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 21~): Don't let anything get to you today. You may he a liule emotional, and that could lead to trouble il' you take what others say to heart.*** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Take J'ull advantage of whatever is being oJ'ferl•d today. The chance to try something totally different will spark an idea that can turn into a prosperous venture. Someone who intcncsts you will give you something to think about. *** CANCER (.June 21-.luly 22): There will he plc.:nty going on in your neck or the woods. Patience will pay ofT and bring you I hal much closer lo getting what you want. As long as you slay within reason, you will nol he lei down, turned down or passcu by. **** LEO (July 23-Au~. 22): Be carcl'ul what you wish J'or. You may have J'ar nlllrL' to contend with if you aren't willing to compromise. An offer that .<ounds too good to he true probably is. Today, less will dcl'inilely he more. Remind yourscll' of what you have, not what you don't have. ** VIRGO (Au~. 23-Sept. 22): You can't go wrong today, so lake a hit of a chance. Look for a new joh, ask for a raise or even wnsider picking up some additional skills. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0l't. 22): The responsibility will he on you--especially il' you have overspent or hecn overindulgent. You can make changes to ensure that you are more efficient, leading to a much better future. Love is apparent even il' you have made someone upset or angry with you. *** · SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Focus on communication and getting ahead work­wise. Regarding personal matters, you may be in the doghouse il' you J'orgot to do something for a J'riend or lover. You can make it up if you do something that is very special and uni4uc ]()r this person. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take a moment lo appreciate your peers. The praise given will pay off when you need a J'avor. You may feel a lillie under the weather. Take lime out to relax and recuperate. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.)an. 19): You will he in a loving mood. Make plans to engage in a fun activity. Expand your horizons through the people you mcc,l today. ***** AQUARilJS (.Jan. 20-Feb. II!): You have way too much running through your head. Don't lake too much J'or granted or lake on too much. Concentrate on what you know you can handle, and do it well. ** PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): Someone may allcmpllo derail what you are trying to accomplish. Keep your thoughts and ideas to yourselr and do your very best, and you will succeed regardless.**** 
Birthday Baby: You arc very capable of doing something cxtrai>rdinary with your life. You arc a humanitarian who will always go the extra mile for a cause you believe in. You arc n true visionary. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites al aslroadvicc.com and cugenialast.com. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
. . 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Batteast, Duffy lead team to 54-47 victory after trailing by 15 points in first half 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
After Boston College domi­nated Notre Dame in the first half of Tuesday's game, coach Muffet McGraw turned to the team's top leadership for help. 
Jacqueline' Batteast  and  
Megan Duffy responded.  
Batteast's  15  points  and  

seven rebounds, combined with Duffy's 14 second-half points, helped the Irish over­come a 15-point first half deficit to down Boston College for the second time this season -this one by a 54-47 score. 
"I thought we came out of 
Brey prepares team for Georgetown's use of the patient Princeton offense 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Fans in the Joyce Center may catch themselves rubbing their eyes tonight. 
When Notre Dame (14-7, 6-5 Big East) meets Georgetown for the second time this sea­son, the visiting third-place Iloyas (16-6, 8-3) will run the methodical Princeton offense, a series of backdoor cuts and perimeter passes. 
The offense, new to the Big East, slows down games and creates a tempo uncommon to the often up-and-down style characteristic of the confer­ence's play. 
"If a team wants to play in the 50s, they're gonna play in the 50s," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We've got to get our guys mentally ready to understand that we can win the game 57-55, and it still counts. 
"Georgetown is every bit as powerful a game for our resume as Connecticut, Villanova or Boston College." 
In the first meeting between the Irish and lloyas on Jan. 

Dynamic duo 
the locker room with a little different attitude," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought we played harder and more aggressive, and I thought that was the differ­ence. 
"But it started with Megan and Jackie." 
Batteast carried the Irish in , the first half, scoring eight of the team's 15 points. She con­tinued to hit critical shots dur­ing the second 20 minutes, but it was Duffy who ignited Notre Dame. The junior tri-captain made all eight of her free throw attempts and had all her points in the second half. 
"I had some words at half­time with the team and told them, 'We have to get our act together,"' Duffy said. "We only have three games left in the season, and this is a huge one that we need to get. I was just like, if no one is going to 
see DUO/page 22 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish look to contain Hoya offense 

23, Notre Dame los_t 55-54 on a buzzer-beating dunk by Georgetown center Roy Hibbert. Colin Falls hit a 3­pointer seconds before to send the Irish up one, but Hoyas guard Ashanti Cook went the length of the court and dished to Hibbert for the bucket and the win. 
Notre Dame has won its share of close games, beating Seton Hall (Jan. 5) with a Falls 3-pointer, St. John's (Jan. 15) with late-game defense and Connecticut (Jan. 30) with steady play down the stretch. But the' Irish are coming off one of a few tough close defeats after losing to Pittsburgh, 68-66, on Saturday. 
"You look at all our Big East games and almost every one of our games has been down to game situations," Irish guard Chris Quinn said. "It's not nec­essarily one thing that's hurt­ing us this year. It's little things that we've got to improve on." 
Quinn led Notre Dame with 25 points on 1 0-of-15 shooting against Pittsburgh, combining with Chris Thomas to provide the majority of the team's offense. 
Brey is pleased the Irish offense has become more bal­anced after seeing the team 
see OFFENSE/page 22 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Tealll races for the Big East title 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Sports Writer 

The hours of laps in early I]lorning practices and heated swim meets are over. The light at the end of the tunnel is visible for the Notre Dame men's swim­ming and diving team. 
The No. 22 Irish (10-2) begin their pursuit of the Big East Championship title today, taking their show on the road for four day~ of competition at the Nassau County Aquatics Center in East Meadow, N.Y. 
While the Irish sense their goal of a league championship in reach, they understand the challenges of competing on such a stage. 
see BIG EAST/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Notre Dame hopes to continue tradition 
Team seeks ninth straight Big East Chan1pionship title 
By MIKE TENNANT Sports Writer 

This is what they have been working for all year. 
Today, Notre Dame begins its quest for a ninth straight Big East Championship in East Meadow, N.Y. 
Standing in the way of a ninth straight title is a much­improved Big East conference, including foes Pittsburgh and Rutgers. 
"Rutgers has improved a lot, so has Pittsburgh," Weathers said. "I think this one's going to be pretty hard." 
Leading the way for the Irish in their championship charge will be senior All-American diver Meghan Perry-Eaton and a host of young and talented swimmers. 
Perry-Eaton has won three conference titles for the Irish, taking the 3-meter board title last year and the 1-meter board each of the last two years. She was also named the Big East Championship's Most Outstanding Diver in the last two years. 
Last year Perry-Eaton domi­nated the competition, finishing 
see TRADITION/page 21 

en 
MlB SMC BASKETBAll 
MU~ 

PGANBA 
NCAA BASKETBAll 
L&.l Co) Steroid tell-all 
Saint Mary's at Magic 99 Golfers prepare South Carolina 71 ..;. 1--tops best-sellers Kalamazoo 

The Washington 

Clippers 94 for championship Kentucky 63 
Nationals, baseball's·
a: s z 
"Juiced," Jose Can-
recently relocated fran-
The Belles are looking 

All-Star Grant Hill 
After an exciting few Tarence Kinsey and
C) = c:c seco's inside tale, raced to turn around a five­
chise, is ready for their 

powered Orlando over 
Carlos Powell lead the off shelves beginning months, golfers are 
first season.
game losing streak. 

the stuggling L.A. team 
Gamecocks to an upset Monday. 
ready for the tour cham­
with 39 points. 
pionships. 
of the No. 3 Wildcats. 
!:i 
page 19page 20 
page 19 

page 16page 17 page 14 







