
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 91 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15.2005 
Weis inspires early morning crowd 
Coach's first full day begins on the right foot 
1\y PAT LEONARD 
Nt·ws Writrr 
<:harlio Wois hogan his first full day as tho Notro Damn head f(ulthall I'IHLch at h a.m. with 207 · oa rly-rising studon ts oage rly awaiting his arrival. 
WPis grPPlPd tlw nowd in tho .loycl' CPnlPr arnna Monday morning and int.roducod himsnll' as tho full-limo Irish 1~oa1~h. 
sec COACH/page 9 
---~--~======~~=-~=========---~ 
Group debates Monologues, proclamation 

make our campus lautomati­callyl rape-free," Bell said. 
Some council members were opposed to the proelamation based on its support of' the Vagina Monologues, the high­ly successful and ol'ten debat­ed feminist play by Eve Ensler. 
"I think from an administra­tive perspective, particularly in Student Affairs, I agree with everything in this procla­mation except the Vagina Monologues," said David Moss, assistant vice president for Student Affairs. 
According to Moss, tho Vagina Monologues is cur­rently performed on campus solely as an academie produc­tion, housed as an academic freedom issue. 
"We just don't think it rep­resents us as a Catholic insti­tution," said Moss, who did 
see CLC/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Page is nan1ed FYS dean 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
Assistant News Ediwr 
Aftnr 'I 5 years of stnady improvenwnt under current dnan, Eilnnn Kolman. Notre Damn's First Ynar of Studios program gainnd its rwxt lnadPr Monday. 
H n v . II u g h p a g e , WaIt n r assoeiato profnssor of thnolo~-,ry, has been 

Page
appoinlPd the dnan of tlw FYS program, Univer-sity Provost Nathan 1latch said in a press rdmtsn. 
A panni of five liteulty mmn­bers and one snnior student snlm:tnd Page, with llateh as pand r.hair. A1nmling to Pagn, tlw appointnwnt canw as "a total surprisn." 
"l am trenwndously honorml and humbled," he said in an n­mail. "I am dnlightml to havn been given tho opportunity to snrve the llnivnrsity and its students in this capacity." 
Pagn is the fourth dean to load the first-year program since iL'i inception in 1<Jh2, ((,]­lowing in the footsteps ol' William Burke, Emil Ilofman and most rncnntly, Kolman. Kolman, who has snrvnd in thn position since 1<J<JO, announcnd in Oetober that she would retire this June. Although Page has sonw big shoes to fill, llatd1 bdinves hn i'i ready Jiw thn ehalltmgn. 
"Over thn last 12 years, Hugh Pagn has distinguished himself as a tnaehnr, scholar, 
see FYS/page 9 


By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council passed a •Rape-Free Zono Proclamation," controversial due to its support of the Vagina Monologues, and dis­cussed last week's •Flex 10" resolution and task force reports at Monday's meeting. 
"This is a huge success for this campus," student body president Adam Istvan said. ''I'm thrilled that the CLC stepped up to support this and the Vagina Monologues." 
The proclamation, which began in the Senate Gender Relations Committee and passed in the Senate last week, was described by stu­dent body vice president Karla Bell as a "vow of sup­port for V-Day, a symbolic gesture." 
"Obviously, we can't just 
Turnout up, skepticistn retnains 
Voters and non-voters analyze common student government trends 
By JULIE BENDER 
News Writt•r 
Though I>avn Baron and Lizzi Shappnll WIH'n officially dnelared thn win no rs ol' tlw student body prnsidenlial nine­lions last wn1~k. student pnr­n~ption of this ynar's campaign sPason did not provP to lw as clear-cut as lhn nleetion rPstdts. Voter turnout saw a signi lir.anl inrreasn in com pari­son to roe1~nt years. but apathy and nngativity toward student govl\rnmnnl rnmainnd strong undnn~ur'l'l~ n ts. 
Thn winning margin was slim in this yPar's runoff, with Baron and Shappell 235 votes alwad of' tlw runnnr-ups, 
James Leito and Jordan Bongiovanni. Baron and Shappell l'inishnd with 52.88 percent of the votn, claiming majorities in tho freshman, junior and senior elasses. 
In total, 4,2X7 votes wore east in this yeal''s oleetion, which rnprnsents 52.7 percent or just more than half of the studnnt body. This ynar's I'Unofl' nlnction saw an inel'oasod vote!' turnout over othnr l'nennt elec­tions, with 763 morn voters participating than last ynar's nlnetion, and 574 morn votnrs than in tho 2003 nleetion. 
l'rnsident-elnet Davn Baron credits the ineroasHd voter turnout to the l'n.eent U.S. pres­idnntial election. 
"Student interest at the 
national lnvel of politics was high this year, and 1 think that carries over to the most local political process -our school elections," Baron said. 
Despitn the eloseness of' this year's nloetion and tho inereasod voter turnout, many students remain apathetic to the nlnction process and eyni­eal about thn role of student body president. Though rna­sons for apathy surrounding tho 1~lnetion were val'ied, a recul'ring sentiment among studnnts was studnnt govern­mont's apparnnt laek of' powor. 
"I didn't vote this year bceauso I hadn't paid much attention to the campaigns," 
see ELECTION/page 4 

Tuesday, February 15,2005
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Anevvfound nostalgia 
In a navy blue Volvo station wagon evolved a scrapbook of my entire child­hood. Inside, memories rested alongside the hardened French fries and squa<>hed fruit snacks that lined the plastic leather interior. 
Growing up I had 

Katie Perry 
two older brothers. Brian was two 
News
years my senior, 
Production
and we flat out did 
Editor
not get along. At the root of our con­stant fighting were our intrinsic similar­ities -we repelled each other like two homologous poles. Michael, two years older than Brian, had an incredible knack for aloofness. He was always a spectator during our petty battles. never taking sides or responding to the action. I often pondered how it was possible for him to ignore Brian's and my constant quarreling. In time I realized this trait was simply part of who Mike was, and we all loved him for it. 
During family car trips we'd find our­selves playing our Gameboy consoles for 10 minutes before breaking into com­plete sibling warfare. My father would try to overwhelm the cacophony with his newest Bruce Springsteen cassette, but his attempts were always futile. 
Through the constant combat. my parents' personalities shined through. My mother's solution to all sibling-relat­ed problems involved an extraordinary amount of yelling. My father wasn't as vocal. Once the Boss had failed him, he'd opt to jerk the car to the side of the road and cooly stand outside until the battle ceased. This technique usually worked. Brian would direct his negative anger at his game of Tetris, Michael would lose himself in his Walkman, and I would stare out the window and day­dream. The car changed with the fami­ly, and as we acquired parts, so did it. When the Volvo approached its second birthday, my sister Erica was born. The meager five-seater could no longer hold our family and a fold-up trQilk seat was added as a result. 
The years passed, and like us, the Volvo began to age. The navy paint lost its luster and small regions of rust developed. Inside, empty juice boxes and X-Men trading cards lay preserved beneath the floor mats, creating an unintentional scrapbook of memories shared by my family in the car. 
One subzero February day our car began its dissent to death. As we pulled out of our driveway something felt awry. The Volvo was making strange noises­it had finally trekked its last mile. 
A short time later, we purchased a spacious new Honda minivan. No longer crammed in the backseat, arguments between Brian and I dissipated and finally ceased. We pretended to love the new found maturity, yet in our hearts we all wanted to go back to the days of pulling hair and bickering to no end. 
The Volvo represented our youth, and when it died, our childhood went along with it. From gummy bears and Gameboys had somehow evolved four children who had just about grown up. Now as I juggle papers, exams and of course, late nights at The Observer, I think I'd give anything to relive those days. Yet I know it is an unreachable desire. Childhood is a one-way street, and there is no turning back. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, an event mentioned in the In Brief section on Feb. 14 was listed as taking place on Wednesday. Ron Koperski will be giving a lecture on "Sports and the Media: An Examination of the Ethical Elemenrs"atl2:30p.m.onThursdayinGiovanni 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DO FOR VALENTINE'S DAY? 









Collen Beeler  Andrew Cracker  Alex Hale  Elena Lacayo  Katie Monahan  Dan Toler  
freshman Walsh  junior off-campus  freshman Stanford  junior Howard  sophomore Lewis  freshman Dillon  
"!made a cookie for Operation Smile.''  "Answered The Observer's photo poll.,,  "Nothing, I think it's a holiday created by corporate America.''  "Spent the day desperately looking for someone to spoon with. ,,  "! went out and made love to the world because that's what you should do everyday. ,,  "My girlfriend and I celebrated it over the weekend.,,  


Wild turkeys push luck, move to BBQ town 
NETA, N.D. -A wild turkey flock may be crazy for moving to this town, which claims it holds the world's largest turkey bar­becue each summer. 
Wayne Short's back yard is a popular hangout for the turkeys. He said he thinks the big birds have been mis­informed. 
"When they find out we're having turkey barbecue instead of a barbecue for turkeys, they'll be gone like a shot," Short said. 
The Turkey Barbecue and Summer Festival is held each June and attracts thou­sands of people to this town of about 285 people. Last year, organizers cooked 296 turkeys. 

The turkeys showed up in October. They roost in the trees in Short's back yard every night and wander through the town during the day, he said. 
Short believes that three of the turkeys in the flock serve as lookouts and leaders. 
Alligator on way to becoming state reptile 
JACKSON, Miss. -It might not have the hard bite of some other legislation, but a bill to designate the American alligator as Mississippi's state reptile is on its way to the governor. 
The bill cleared the House 106-10 on Monday. It passed the Senate by a wide margin Feb. 2. 
House Rules Committee Chairman Joe Warren, D­Mount Olive, said he had been inundated with letters from Gulf Coast school chil­dren pushing for the bill. 
Mississippi already has several official symbols. The mockingbird is the state bird. Petrified wood is the state stone. The teddy bear is the state toy. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

..... 
<
(,) 



0 

..... HIGH 44 HIGH HIGH 34 HIGH LOW 28 LOW LOW 19 LOW IN BRIEF 



Professor Ralph Mcinerny will be having a Mystery Writing Workshop from 3 p.m. to 4:30 in LaFortune's McNeill Room today. The event is cosponsored by the Student Union Board and the Notre Dame Literary Festival. 
Notre Dame alumnus Todd Tucker will give a talk about his books "Notre Dame vs. The Klan: How the Fighting Irish .Defeated the Ku Klux Klan" and "Notre Dame Game Day" today at 7:30p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. 
Jean Ann Linney, vice presi­dent and associate provost, will give a lecture entitled "Discriminatory Harassment" today at 5:30 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall. The event is sponsored by ND Watch. 
Ron Koperski from Bradley University will be giving a lec­ture on "Sports and the Media: An Examination of the Ethical Elements" at 12:30 
p.m. 
Thursday in Giovanini Commons in Mendoza. The lecture is part of the Mendoza College of Business' Ethics Week. 

Father Joseph Komonchak from the Catholic University of America will be giving a lec­ture entitled "Vatican II: Historical Relevance for 21st Century Believers" at 7:30 

p.m. 
in th.e Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall at Saint Mary's on Thursday. The lecture is sponsored by the Center for Spirituality. 


To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 34 LOW 18 

Atlanta 71 I 51 Bost?n 49 I ~9 Chicago 46 I ~7 Denver 40 I 26 Houston 77 I ?1 Los Angeles 65 I 52 Minne_apolis 31 I 16 
f;olTI!l'?PJn.f1e.n1~za: T~e_O_b~';Vc;r.re_sr~~ tp<;.err~r, •••• ~:~. ~~r.k. ~~ ~ ~! .P.h~l~~~!~~~~ .5.BJ.~~ ~~?:~~x. ~~: ?~ .~e.a.t!l~ .4_7_1_~9. ~~· -~~~~~ _5.B.t_35. T~~~a !.s.1.~8. ~a.s_h~~~t~_n. ~~ ~ ~~ .. 
Tuesday, February 15, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COR 
Members approve ne-w treasurer, funds 
Mike Marshall named, money allocated to clubs 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
New' Wrirl'r 
Bnforn dosing their llllwting to tho J>rnss Monday. the Co u 11 ci I o f Hnp r n s ~~ nt ati v n s a p J>r o v IHI t h n n n w s t u d n n t union trnasurnr. Mikn Marshall will n~placn curnmt treasurer <:lain~ l'adnl IH~ginning March 
I. 
Fadnl praisnd Marshall for his dndication to thn student union during tlw past year. 
"Mikn has a lot of nxperi­nru~n." l.'adnl said. "lin is very dndi1~atnd and hn is going to bn a gn•at lit." 
Studnnt body prnsident Adam Istvan said aftnr dosing tho nwnting tho Council vottld to allow two clubs to rncnive morwy for fwmrts that nxc~end­nd tlwir rnspndivn budgnts. 
Istvan disdosnd information rngarding tlw dubs appnaling for monny, but would not rnvnal spneil'ic dntails of the allocations. 
Silvnr Wings was given monny to lwlp stagn an Easter I·:gg llunt for South Bond chil­drnn in thn spring. 
A l.ifn Uncommon was also allocatml funds to holp pay for .Jnssiea Woinnr to spnak on campus during Eating Disorders Awareness week. 
The money given to the dubs comns from the $16,000 col­laboration fund -money set aside to holp groups stage large events that might exceed their budgets. The Couneil encourages dubs and organi­zations to collaborate their resources and then ask the Council for money to cover the remaining difference. 
"The fund is sot aside for clubs throwing evnnts that are eo-sponsorod by another stu­dent organization," Istvan said. "If they throw larger events than they have funds for, it allows them to still pursue it." 
Istvan said tho meeting was elosfld because the student union constitution dmnands that issues regarding allocat­ing money not be discussed in an open meeting. 
"The constitution says the meetings must be closed for collaboration fund appeals," Istvan said. "If we end up denying money to a group, we don't want people to be quoted because that can eause con­flict." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
BOG 
Board discusses campaign progress 
By KELLY BALE 
News Writer 
With Valentine's Day marking the halfway point of the "Love Makes the World Go Hound. Show Your Love" tsunami relief campaign, Saint Mary's Board of Governanee met Monday night to discuss its continued relief p,fl'orts. 
"[There was al much better effort this week," executive treasurer Molly Welton said. 
BOG altered campaigning slightly this week by changing the types of collection bins that are used and adding a donation table in the Madeleva classroom building. 
"We added the table and the new canistflrs around campus in hopes to raise more money," BOG chief ofstaff Susan Mcllduff said.. "The new canisters have seemed to be very successful." 
Welton announeod the unoffi­cial total of the campaign so far as $552.65, out of a $1,341 goal. BOG members attributed this increasfl in donations to a sec­ond door-to-door dorm eollec­tion, which raised approximate­ly $100, and the donation table, whieh collected $47.50. Welton said the door-to-door collections have been the most successful thus far, and a third collection night is scheduled for Feb. 27. 
"I really think that we ean and should reach our goal," Welton said. · 
BOG will continue collecting for the "Show Your Love" cam­paign at upcoming events such as Junior/Senior Bowling Night, Sophomore Parents Weekend, Little Sibs Weekend and the Saint Mary's women's basketball game this Saturday. 
BOG approved the eo-sponsor­ship of a committee comprised of members of the Saint Mary's Justicfl Departmnnt. Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns and members of the eommunity, which will aid in bringing former Illinois Governor Georgfl Ryan to the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community. 
As part of the Death Penalty Symposium, which will be held from Feb. 23 to Mari~h 2, Hyan will speak on the Notre Dame eampus about the falliability of the death pP.nalty and will also hold a panel discussion at Saint Mary's. 
"The eommittfle has come from different parl'> of the earn­pus and eommunity," junior Katie Kelly, who spoke as a rep­resentative of thfl committee, said. "(The symposium] is not so mueh focused against thfl death penalty, but looking at thfl din'er­ent dynamics surrounding it." 
Members of BOG expressed concern over how the provided funds would bfl used and where other funds filr the symposium would eome. Welton said if the committee is serious about get­ting donations then they would need to. provide BOG with a more detailed budget. Further BOG concerns stemmed from thfl publicity of the event. 
"No onfl knows anything for an event happening in two weP.ks," sophomore BOG mem­ber Monica Lindblom said. 
But some members li1lt public­ity was not the issun at hand. 
"Our ehoiee should not lw based on our publicity ... if should be based on how many Saint Mary's students will lind this valuable," student body president Sarah Catherirw White said. 
B()(; approvnd t.he co-sponsor­ship, with tho stipulation that the funds coming from BO<; bn used spndlieally to help aeeom­modate Hyan 's trip to the Saint Mary's campus. 
In other BOG news: 
+Thfl Women Honoring Women committee seleeted Carrie Call, Astrid llnnry, Mary Connolly and Lynn Kaehmarik as nominnos for tho Womon Honoring Women award, which will be handed out at a dinner March 23. 
+ 
Tho Studnnt I>ivorsity Board will sponsor a cultural taste fest Thursday at noon in the dining hall. Thn lirst 15 oll'-eampus stu­dents will got in l'mn. 

+ 
A small group forum onti­tled "The Many Diversn Voie1~s ol' Saint Mary's" will be held tonight at 5:30 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. 


Contact Kelly Bale kbaleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Notre Da rary Festi 
~e 
like mystery writing? want to learn about self-publishing? bring friends. 
have fun! 
.(j)

brought to you by the 
,

sub.nd.edu 
f "The higher-ups dominate proposing improbable cam­about student government are ty. University policy no matter paign ideas year in and year felt by those in elected roles as "Diversity is something the

Election 

---------~---­
page 4 Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
what. Student government has  out -that has decreased their  well ­ and actually, those frus­ University is actively working  
continued from page 1  proven over the years that they  faith in student government.  trations are magnified at the  on from year to year," Garcia  
can't bring back Everclear,  "I think ideas like the Flex-10  higher level."  said. "The fact that Baron and  
said junior Kendra Harmon.  kegs  or  SYRs  even  though  meal plan. that many candi­ Even with the general nega­ Shappell gave diversity promi­ 
"Anyway, not too much usually  that's what the majority of stu­ dates offered is a  great idea,  tive view of student govern­ nence in their campaign, and  
changes at the University based  dents want," Tutaj said. "They  but in reality, I don't feel that  ment, there were some voters  that they had specific ideas for  
on the elections. In my years at  just don't have the power."  student government has the  who believe this year's winning  diversity improvement is why I  
Notre Dame, I haven't noticed  Among students who did vote  influence to make that sort of  ticket does show potential for  voted for them."  
any significant changes as a  in this year's election, many  change," freshman Jessica Lau  change at the school. Many stu­ With Baron and Shappell set  
result of who is the student  were still skeptical about the  said.  dents  said  they  to take office in  
body president."  candidate promises and the  Senior Mary Laski agreed  cast their votes  April, their abili­ 
Shantha Ready, a senior, agreed with Harmon that the  role of student government at the University.  that student government's solid ideas -and even strong  for Baron and Shappell because  "Our legislation is  ties to keep cam­paign promises  
accomplishments of the office  "I  voted  for  the  Baron­ stances -often don't translate  the pair's platform  not binding; we're  and to prove they  
of the president often 'do not depend on who is elected.  Shappell ticket," said junior John Harrington, "but overall I feel  into follow-through. "From what I have noticed in past years, candidates cam­ had the most real­istic ideas. For senior  not sovereign, but instead we  carry weight at the University will be key in  
"In past years,  "In past years,  the election was  paign with great ideas - con­ M  e  g  a  n  function more like  maintaining  a  
student govern­ment has always done a decent job,  student government has  irrelevant. During my time at Notre Dame so  certs is always a big one ­but they never really come through on these promises, which  McCormick, the dedication to vol­unteerism is what  ·  a labor union. "  high voter turnout next year. For underclass­ 
so I had full confi­ always done a  far,  I  haven't  makes me think that they don't  attracted her to  Dave Baron  men, and fresh­ 
dence that whoev­er ended up in office would be  decent job, so I had full confidence that  noticed the changes the can­didates say they'll  have the power to implement change," she said. "One exam­ple is if you look at something  vote for Baron and Shappell. "That's an  student body president-elect  men in particular, what this year's elected represen­ 
fine," she said. "I  whoever ended up  make,  and  I  like the University's ban on  important topic,  tatives  accom­ 
voted, but didn't care much about the outcome."  in office would be fine."  doubt this year will be any differ­ent. And anyway,  hard alcohol and SYRs imple­mented a few years ago ­stu­dents were outraged about this  especially at Notre Dame, where so many students are involved in service-related  plish will impact students' vot­ing patterns in the next several years.  
When  ques­ it seems to be a  sudden change, but the student  activities," McCormick said.  Colleen McCaughan, a fresh­ 
tioned  further,  Shantha Ready  guy-girl  ticket  government lacked the power  "To  address  those  kind  of  man voter this year, said she  
Ready cited the authority of high­ senior  that usually wins the election  to do anything about it. I think that incident in particular has  issues shows how in-tune Baron and Shappell are to the  has faith in Baron and Shappell but that next year's results will  
er University offi­ regardless of the  weakened faith in the govern­ things that are important to  speak for themselves.  
cials as the main reason for  actual campaign strategy and  ment."  students here. Plus, service is  "They got my vote because  
her belief that student govern­ promises."  Baron himself acknowledged  something that the student gov­ both candidates came to the  
ment has little power at Notre  Erin O'Neill, a freshman who  the overall negative opinion on  ernment  realistically  can  dorm and visited rooms indi­ 
Dame.  also  voted  for  Baron  and  student government, but he has  impact."  vidually before the run-off  
"With the Board of Trustees  Shappell, said that she did not  a different view on the matter.  April Garcia, another senior,  vote," she said. "If [Baron and  
and other officials who have  put much faith in the campaign  "I think what students need  also credited the pragmatic  Shappell] showed that kind of  
the final say, I really don't  promises.  to realize is that we're not  ideas of the Baron-Shappell  dedication during the voting  
think that student government  "I  thought  the  Baron­ actually a government," Baron  platform as essential in giving  process, I have faith they'll  
can  do what they say they  Shappell ticket had some good  said. "Our legislation is not  them the win.  continue to be dedicated to the  
will," she said. "On  a  small  ideas, but most were pretty  binding; we're not sovereign,  "Baron and Shappell's ideas  students  now  that  they've  
scale, they accomplish great  unrealistic," she said. "For  but instead we function more  were pretty solid and seemed  earned their offices. I guess  
things, but some of the loftier  example, their concert endow­ like a labor union. The only  realistic enough to implement,"  we'll know for sure next year if  
goals will likely remain lofty  ment idea doesn't seem very  way we can impact policy is if  she said, pointing out that  this is true or not."  
and distant."  probable."  we garner the student voice  Baron and Shappell addressed  
Steve Tutaj, a senior who did  A few students said that it is  collectively behind us.  I think  problems specific to  Notre  Contact Julie Bender at  
not vote, shared this sentiment.  this perception ­ of candidates  the frustrations students feel  Dame students, such as diversi­ jbender@nd.edu  

SAINT MARY'S STUDY ABROAD INFO SESSION TUESDAY FEBRUAt\RY '15, 2005 7:00-8:30 pm DEBARTOLO _HALL NOTRE DAI\rlE C"t\l\t1PUS SMC, ND, & HC STUDENTS ARE WELCOME!! 
Apply on-line for Summer '05 & Fall '05 
www.saintmarys.edu/-cwil/ 

Semester Pro rams  DeBartolo Rm#  
ROME, ITALY  213  
MAYNOOTH,  208  
IRELAND  
SEMESTER  214  
AROUND THE  
WORLD  
SEVILLE, SPAIN  209  
DIJON, FRANCE  215  

Summer Programs  DeBartolo  
Rm.#  
MEXICO CITY SURVEY:  207  
Study of American Business  
EUROPEAN STUDY  216  
PROGRAM  
GREECE STUDY TOUR  216  
KOREAN CULTURE  217  
STUDY  
HONDURAS SERVICE  210  
LEARNING PROGRAM  






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, ~ehruary I 5, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TI---IE OBSERVER's wrRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Fire in mosque kills 59 Iranians TI·:IIH/\N. Iran -t\ fire raged through a erowdnd mosqun in Tnhran during evening pmyms Monday al'tnr a fnmaln worshippnr's vnil eaugh t tlw llamns of a k1~roserw hoatnr, killing at loast !i'J pooplo and injuring morn than 250, Iran's official nnws agnney report­nil. 
Tlw t\rg Mosqun was fillnd with about 400 worshippPrs, mort' crowded than usual hPrausP this is thn Islamic month of Muharram. a holy pPriod for Shiite Muslims. 
Panirkl'd f!Popll' rarnd for tlw doors and smaslwd windows to nseapo tho blaze. loav­ing hurru~d shoPs and wonwn's black ehadors Sl'iiLIPrPd in tlw mosqun yard. Thn mosqun walls wnrP rharn~d. earpPLs worn burrwd and rPiigious hooks, inrluding thn Quran. WPrl' dnstroyPll. 
Prime minister candidates emerge 
Bt\c;llllt\1>, Iraq -t\ Frmu·h-odueatod l'inanrn ministor and a formor London physi,·ian Pmnrgod Monday as thn top ean­dirlal.ns lo Ill' Iraq's nnxt prime rninistnr, as lnadnrs ol' llw dergy-hal'kml Shiite Muslim allianl'l' launchl'd l'onsultations al'tnr· fail­ing lo gPt a two-thirds majority in tlw vole l'or Iraq's nPw parlianH•nt. 
ThP prominPJH'I' of urbarw, modnrai.P, WPst,•rn-oriPntPd l'igurPs appears dPsignPd to !'ouni.Pr eonenrn in Washington that Iran's inllunneP will grow in Iraq al'tl'r a ShiitP-dominatnd govnrn­ruPnl. takl's llOWPI'-lWPn though tlw ulti­rrrai.P dPrision may rPsl. with a reclusive PldPrly dPric. 
Adl'l t\bdul-Mahdi. tho intPrim l'inanrn rrrinisl.l•r, and Ibrahim al-.laal'ari, tlw inlnr­irn vh·p prPsidl•nt, WlH'n said to bn l.lw IPading candidaiPs l'or prime minister. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Man indicted for mass suicide plot 
Kl.t\Mi\TII I·AI.I.S, On~. -t\n Oregon man arrusPd ol' using tiH' lntnnwt to try to organize a mass suiridP l'or VaiPntirw's Day was indidt\d Monday whiiP dnputins kept watch over his housn to makP sun~ no onn arrived to kill thom­snlws. 
( ;nrald 1>. Kn~in .Jr.. 26, was indictml on ono ,·ount of solicitation to commit murder and l(,ur rounts of solicitation to r.onunit manslaughll~r. 
lnvnstigators discowrnd last wonk that lw lrad nnrouragnd womPn to rommil. suiddn as far hark as L000, inviting tlwm to die in a group at his honw or whiln participants worn all loggPd onto lh<' lnlPnwt at tfw sanw limn, said Klamath County SIH'rill' Tim Evingnr. 
Flu shots for elderly not needed 
CIIIC/\<;o -t\ JJPW study basPd on morn limn thrPP dncadPs of U.S. data suggnsts that giving llu shoL'i to Uw PldPrly has not sawd any liws. 
I.Pd by National Institutes of' llnalth rnsParl'hPrs. tlw study r.hallnngns standard gowrnnu•nt dogma and is hound to confuso sPnior dt.izPns. During last fall's llu Vlll~dnn shorlagn, thousands of oldnr t\nwrieans, lwnding tlw gowrnnwnt's puhlie lwall.h nws­sagn, slood in long !inns lo got tlwir shots. 
"TiwrP is a sPnSP thai wn'rn all going to din if WI' don't gPt Uw flu shot." said tho study's load aulhor. l.ont• Simonsnn. a SPnior npidmniologist at tlw National lnslilutn of' t\llnrgy and lnf'Prtious l>isPaSl'S in Bnthnsda, Md. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Romance blossoms even during war 
CIIIC/\<;O-A romancn lwtwnnn two Indiana National (;uard soldinrs began six months ago during training oxnrdsns but has thriwd in thP bal.t.IPfi<'ld conditions of' Iraq. 
Sgt. l>amon Srhro('(lor first took noticn of SpI' r . Ni r o I " .I i r 1.1 n , a nw die . whn n s hn ruhh1·d lTPam onto his l'orParm f'or a rash hn was sul'f'Pring during a two-wenk sumnwr fiPid oxPrl·isPd at rPnlral Indiana's Camp t\tlt•rhury. 
Tlrny say thPir ndationship has grown siru:n hPing wnrl~ dPployt\d to Iraq. 
LEBANON 

Prime minister killed in bombing 
Blast leaves 10 dead, 100 wounded, stirringfears ofviolence 15 years after civil war 
Associated Press 
BEIHUT, Lnbanon -t\ massive bomb, a huge erator. Cars ablaze. t\nd an assassinatod loader. Bloody images from the past playnd out onen again in the strn1~ts of Bnirut. 
T h n ki II i ng of l'o r m n r Primo Minister Halik llariri rnvivod foars that this country -flourishing al'tor 1!i years of eivil war ­might plunge anew into a poriod of political violonen. 
The blast that killed llariri and nine others camn, ironically, in tho vnry downtown district lw holpnd to rebuild. Just hloeks from the blast silo and its donp rratnr, tourists havn rPlurnnd in n~eont yPars to gather at sidowalk rafns under buildings rnbuilt in warm yellow stonn. 
Whether Beirut ean rnsunw its old aura as the Paris ol' tho Middle East. hownvnr, now seems morn unenrtain. 

Ynt tho blast Monday and tlw sntbaek it rcprnsnnls do not moan dvil war. not as it was betwnnn "1975 and I9')01 wlwn religious and AP sectarian groups fought bit­Lebanese women in Beirut grieve outside the hospital where former Prime Minister terly. Rafik Hariri was taken after he was killed by a bomb blast on Monday. The bombing
Instead. the politieal 

has raised fears of a new cycle of violence in Lebanon. 
debate ovnr Syria's inf'lu­nn<~e that turned ugly on both tho Lebannsn and entia! and modnratn voice ollienrs wnrn !wing n~caiiPd Monday cuts across rnli­Syrian governments that eould provo hard to from vacation or ll~avl'. It gious lines. t\nd llariri, a rnsponsibln and dnmanded rnplace. also said troops wPr<' sot­Sunni Muslim, had many that Syrian troops with­It was unclnar if his ling up chnrkpoints and allies in tho Christian camp. draw. killing would delay parlia­patrolling t.hn strnnts. 
Still, thn smoldering A U.S. ofTidal, spnaking mentary nlnctions that had Th n of'f'i r.ial National w rn d ago and :~ 0-l'oo t on condition or anonymity, boon ~~xpoctnd in April and Nnws Agnncy said llariri's erator on a boulevard near said it was too early to May.· l'tmoral would hn tho Mnditnrranean Sea know who was rnsponsible, Top govnrnnwnl oflkials Wndnnsday in a Bnirut worn sepnns the LnbanesP but said any list of suspncts mnt in emnrg1mcy session. mosque. hopml they would nnver sne "would havn to. indude the then instruett~d tho army President l·:miln l.ahoud, again. Syrians and thnir surro­and internal security forcns a longtimn rival of' llariri, 
Tlw Unitnd Stal<~s eallnd gates in Lebanon." "to takn all rwcnssary callnd his killing "a dark thn attaek "a tnrribln llariri, Ml, IPI't office in measures to control tlw point in our national histo­rominder" that Lebanon <ktobnr but had thn wealth SlH'.urity situation." Tho ry." lin promised tlw assas­still must shake l'rnn ol' and thn prominence to Suprenw Council for sins would lw brought to occupation by Syria -the maintain somo degree ol' Dnfnnsn. which groups tho justien. neighbor that keeps 1!i,OOO indnpnndnnen f'rom Syria, presidnn t. Cci.binnt min is­TIHH'n WPrn no rrl'dihln troops hero and influences whiln IHWP.r moving toward tors and military ol'lidals. claims of' rnsponsibility. virtually all key political total dnfiancn. also dndarnd thrnn days of t\ prnviously unknown dodsions. I lis shift toward thn oppo­national mourning. group, Support and .Jihad in 
Syria denied any roln and sition in rnennt months had Lalor in tho day, Uw army Syria and l.nhanon, said in eondnmnml thn assassina­givnn a boost to calls for eo 111 man d a 11 noun c!HI a vidno hroadrast on t\1­tion. But opposition lnadnrs Syrian withdrawal -and l'orees worn on maximum Jazeera tnlnvision thai. il. in Lnbanon said they hold his death silnncml an influ-alnrt and that soldiers and r.arrind out tlw bombing. 
Bush requ·ests more war funding 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush asknd Congrnss on Monday to pro­vide $H 1.9 billion morn for wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and for othnr 
U.S. nfTorls oversnas, shoving tho total pricn tag for the conflicts and anti-tnrror fight past $300 billion. 
Hnpublicans hope to push thn package through Congrnss by narly spring, ref'lecting both partins' dosirn to finance U.S. troops in tlw finld and givP Iraqis morP responsi­bility following thnir national nine­lions. 
Bush asknd lawmakers to pay for the new spending by borrowing tho money-which will make huge f'nd­nral defidts evnn largnr. 

"The majority of this requnsl will nnsurn that our troops continuo to get what they need to protnet tlwm­snlves and complete thnir mission," Bush said in a statnmnnl accompa­nying his request. 
lie also said tho money would lwlp continuo the pursuit of terrorists and lwlp the United States "seizn tlw opportunity to build pea1~n and dnmoerar.y in the Middle East." 
The request was the latnst dnmon­stration of how the soaring costs of war -and the ongoing reconstruc­tion of Iraq and Afghanistan -have nxeended the administration's early eharactnrizations. Whito llousn ol'fi­dals dnridnd fornwr Bush oeonomic advisor l.awn•nen Lindsny's narly nstimate of' a $100 billion to $200 billion price tag. 
/\bout $77 billion of t.hn total was for the wars in lr·aq and t\f'ghanistan, whiln about $!i billion was for aid to U.S. all ins. ()f. tlw total paekagl1 for tho wars, tlw vast majority -$74.9 billion -was for thn Dnfnnse Dnpartnwnt, with otlwr agnndns sharing the rnst. 
Sonw $12 billion was rnqunstnd to rnplacn or n~pair worn-out and damagpd nquipnwnt, inducting $:t:{ billion for nxtra armor for trul~ks and othnr protnetiv11 gmtr. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
not want the show to be the centerpiece of the proclama­tion. 
To bypass the issue, Moss recommended removing the' section discussing the Vagina Monologues from the procla­mation. He also noted he would support a Notre Dame­specific version of the play, similar to that created by Saint Mary's students, and said men needed to be includ­ed in such a production. 
"I think it's naive to think that we can stop violence against women without including men in the process," Moss 
students at the meeting. 
Regarding the continuing discussion of meal plans, Istvan said Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, had received the "Flex 10" resolution, which the CLC passed at their last meeting. 
"I would expect that we'll get a response to that resolu­tion by our next meeting on the 28th," Istvan said. 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni, co-chair of the social concerns task force, said her committee had laid out four possible options to increase diversity awareness among Notre Dame students. 
The options are creating a new diversity class, working with and modifying the cur­rent contemporary topics 
class, establish­
said. ing a diversity
"/ think it's nai"ve
Several mem­requirement and 
to think that we
bers, including cross-listing cur­Brother Jerome can stop violence rent require-Meyer, Knott Hall ments. This
against women 
rector, supported fourth option
without including 
Moss and refused was the most to condone the men in the popular among V a g i n a members of the
process.
Monologues. committee, "I agree with Bongiovanni Dr. Moss. If it said.
David Moss stays in [the res­assistant vice Istvan said the olution], I can't president for Student idea of cross-list­
support it," ing current
Affairs
Meyer said. 
Siegfried sena­tor James Leito said he thought the inclusion of the Vagina Monologues in the proclamation was unneces­sary. 
"I see where student gov­ernment is coming from, but I don't think it adds any strength to what we're trying to say," Lei to said. 
Joyce Randall, Diversity Council representative, dis­agreed with Leito. 
"The Vagina Monologues is more powerful than some shirt that just says 'Stop the Violence,"' Randall said. 
Despite the opposition, the resolution still managed to pass with 11 affirmative votes and five abstentions, meeting the CLC's requisite two-thirds majority only with the addi­tion of Istvan's vote. 
''I'm really happy that the resolution passed with [some] rector support," Istvan said, noting the proclamation met with adequate support even without the presence of two 
requirements 
had been raised frequently after the recent diversity report presented to the Board of Trustees. 
Moss and chief executive assistant Dave Baron suggest­ed submitting the committee's findings to associate provost Dennis Jacobs. 
Leito, chair of the vending task force, said his committee had received results from a Notre Dame Food Services survey sent to 2,000 students, of which 949 responded. 
"Students felt there was an adequate amount [of laundry services available], but the value was not good enough," Leito said. 
While the survey found 56 percent of students preferred an alternate pricing schedule, a flat fee could be problemat­ic because of the wide varia­tion in amount ot money spent on laundry per semester, Leito said. 
"As far as vending, it's pret­ty much the same story," Leito said, explaining many stu­dents thought vending According to Leito, in addi­machine prices could be low­tion to Food Services and ered. Vending sending their findings 

As  a  possible  to Poorman, his  
solution,  Leito  committee will  
offered the idea of lowering vending prices in dorms  "/ would expect that we'll get a  also own tions.  write its resolu­ 
and increasing prices in public areas, such as the library -although he noted students  response to that resolution by our next meeting on the 28th."  Alex French, O'Neill senator and chair of the security task force, said his  
might balk at hav­ committee met  
ing to pay two dif­ferent prices for the same snack.  Adam Istvan student body president  last with D a  MondayNotre m e  
"But  I  say  get  Security/Police  
them as low as we  assistant direc­ 

can get them in the dorms, tor Phil Johnson and South and then we'll go from there," Bend Police representatives. Leito said. "They're totally willing to put together information to help with a security ListServ," French said, explaining they planned to test the ListServ by sending it biweekly and start­ing near the end of this year. 
French also said they met with Fire Chief John Antonucci and discussed fire safety programs and an off­
campus safety seminar,  as  
well  as  the  possibility  of  
mandatory RA training.  

Meyer was uneasy about this proposal. 
"I think you have to be care­ful, adding on to the training of RAs," Meyer said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Attention First-Year MBAs 
Would you like to earn a FULL TUITION fellowship for your second year? The William G. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA program a grant that covers full tuition for the second year for two MBA students! Applicants must comply with the following criteria: 
•Must 
currently be enrolled full-time in the first year of the MBA program. 

•Must 
currently have a 3.0 GPA. 

•Must 
submit a 500-1000 word essay on the contributions of William G. McGowan, founder and Chairman of MCI, to today's business world in general or to the telecommunications field in particular. 

•
Must submit one letter of recommendation from a faculty member. 

•Must 
exhibit attributes such as scholarship, talent, leadership 


qualities, character and community involvement. All First Year MBAs are eligible, excluding those that are already receiving a full tuition fellowship. 
DEADLINE: Applications are due in the MBA Office by Friday, February 25, 2005 Winners will be announced in the spring. Contact: Brian.Lohr.l@nd.edu 
~American Cancer Society ~ 

Daffodil Days 
$6 for a Bunch of Flowers $4 for a Vase 
Orders Due by Monday, February 28, 2005 Flowers will be delivered Thursday, March 17, 2005 
You can place an order in your dorm, or you can email or campus mail orders to: Michele Taets (mtaets@nd.edu, 307 Badin Hall) (Include your name and address with the amount of bunches/vases) 
Please make checks payable to: American Cancer Society 
------~ 

Tuesday, l;ebruary I5, 2005 


MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,784.20 -11.81 

}ones~ 
up: 1,618  Same: 168  Down: ..,  Composite Volume: 502,279,680  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE s&PSOO  I ,502.23 2.0~0.69 7,273.34 1,204.91  + 11.13 +4.03 +11.70 -0.39  
NIKKE.I(Tokyo) 11.632.20 +78.64 FTSE IOO(London) 5,041.~0 -2.40 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
TASER INTL (TASR)  + 10.98  + 1.48  14.9'  
VERIZON COMM (YZ)  + 1.36  +0.50  36.8  
GENERAL MOTORS (GM)  + 1.43  +0.53  37.6  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  + 1.47  +0.26  17.9'  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -0.21  -0.05  24.1  


30-YEAR BOND  -0.45  -0.20  44.67  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.12  -0.05  40.90  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.32  +0.12  37.07  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.68  -0.17  24.77  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.35  47.80  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +4.30 422.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.25  87.80  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  104.94  
EURO  0.7704  
POUND  0.5287  
CANADIAN$  1.2339  

IN BRIEF 
ATA union will accept contracts 
INDIANAI'OI.IS -The union that represents AT/\ Airlirw's flight crnw rnnmbnrs voted to accept ron tract concessions that could save the bankrupt carrier as much as $12 million over tlw rwxt f'our months. 
Tlw Air Linn Pilots Association said 7R pnr­rent of' Uw union's IJ6R AT/\ pilots and flight enginePrs votml f'or tho agreement. which ealls for across-the-board wage reductions and rnducnd contributions to rntirement accounts. 
lndianapolis-basPd ATA, which is owned by AT/\ Holdings Corp., liled f'or Chapter 11 bank­ruptcy protection in October. 
ll is now regrouping under a business alliance with Southwnst Airlinns to share pas­sengnrs on II routns f'rom Chicago's Midway lntPrnational Airport not snrvnd now by the I lallas-lmsnd diseount earrier. 
In a snparaln dnvnlopnwnt Monday, a f'nderal judge appointnd a Nnw York investment bank­ing firm to marknt ATA Airlines Inc.'s Chieago Exprnss rngional rarrinr as part of' the airline's bankruptry reorganization. 
Court blesses plan for Trump hotels 
WASHINGTON -A bankruptey court Monday bless!Hl an agreement bntween Donald Trump and shareholders of Trump llotnls & Casino Hesorts Inc. on reorganizing thn company. 
Many of thn objections raised over the plan, . which shareholders viewed as enriching majority stakeholder Donald Trump, were addressed in an amended version of the plan fill~d Sunday with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Camden, N.J. 
.Judge .Judith Wizmur approved the disclo­sure statemnnt, moving the company a step dosnr to exiting bankruptcy protection. 
Trump Hotels, which operates three Atlantic City casinos and a riverboat in Gary, Ind., filed Chapter 11 on Nov. 21, citing $1.R billion in debt. 
Under the latest plan, Trump will continue to serve as the company's chairman, which will be renamed Trump Entertainment Hnsorts lloldings LP. 
The new plan quashes an agreement that would have paid Trump a base salary of $1.5 million a year, plus a possible $1.5 million bonus. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

Verizon will acquire MCI Inc. 
Three mergers in four months leave telephone industry with few key players 
Associated l'rcss 
NEW YOHK -And thnn 
thnre worn fimr. 
Aller throe big morgors in two months, that's tho num­ber of nH~jor players lnf't in the rapidly consolidating tdnphone industry -if' you nxeludo all thn cabin TV companies that an~ jumping into tlw market. 
Tho sprne of" takeovors, cappnd. by Monday's agrne­monl by V1q·izon Communications Inc. to aequiro Met Inc. for $(>.7 bil­lion in msh and stock, is thn logical outgrowth of major rngulatory ehang1~s in Washington that boosted opm·ating eosts f'or long-dis­tancn providers, efTnetiwly fordng tlwm onto lhn auc­tion block. 
With AT&T Corp. bning acquirnd by SBC Communications lne. in a $16 billion deal announced two wonks ago, two compa­nins that ruled the long-dis­lance markot until rncently arn now dun to disappnar. A third deal. a $35 billion transaction announcnd in Deenmber, will pair Sprint Corp. and Nextnl Communications Inc. 

Once the deals elose, a process that may not be completed until mid-2006, an industry once dominatnd by 10 names will be rod uced to the Big Four -Verizon, already are taking advan­er stock-based bid was of a eompany by Mkhanl 1>. SBC, BeiiSouth Corp. of tage of money-saving alter­rejected by MCI, isolated in a Capellas, MCI's presidnnt Atlanta and Sprint Nextel. natives -especially cell highly competitive market.. and CEO. lie was the head of BeiiSouth, which nearly phones and Internet-based Verizon, the country's Compaq Computer Corp. acquired AT&T a year ago, phone services from cable largest regional phone com­when it was taken ovnr by says it has no merger plans TV companies like Comcast pany, dedined to say what. llewlett-Packard Co. in in its immediate futum. Corp. and Time Warner Inc. will become of the MCI 2002, a troublnd nwrgnr that 
A key catalyst for all throe "I doubt. any of these deals brand. It is a storied name just last wenk helpnd cost li­deals was a court ruling will have an adverse all'ect. due in part to its role as the p Chinf' Exnc.utive Car·ly nearly a year ago and subse­on residential customers," first. major rival to AT&T's Fiorina hnr job. quent decisions by the said Hobert C. Atkinson, national long-distance For SBC and Verizon, tlw Federal Communications director of policy research at. monopoly, and then as a consumer business is a Commission which severely the Columbia Institute for legal opponent in the ease minor attraction in their weakened the business Tele-lnformation at which led U.S. Judge llarold purchases. prospects of AT&T, MCI and Columbia University. "With Greene to order the brnakup Instead, they arn counting Sprint, prompting those cable companies and wire­of the Bell System in 19R4. on the corporate customers companies to seek strength hlSS companins, there's plen­MCI was acquirnd in 191JR and national network opera­through mergers. ty of options coming. There by Bernard Ebbers' tions whkh Nnw York-bmmd 
While consumer advocates will be plenty of opportuni­WorldCom Inc., which aftnr AT&T and Ashburn, Va.­expressed worry, it's not ties to succeed or fail." a financial scandal and a trip bw·>nd MCI bring. dear the dealings will allow The Verizon-MCI and through bankruptcy court The merger would jump­the acquirnrs and others to AT&T-SBC deals leave Qwest reorganization, re-emerged start Verizon's efforts to boost prices for phone calls. Communications Inter­with the MCI name in 2003. bneomn a national service Thatts because many con­national Inc., a Denver­Monday's transactions provider fi>r large companies sumers and businesses based Baby Bell whose high-marks the second major saln thanks to MCJ's bas1~. 

Painkiller usage drops, study shows 
concerns about other widely used painkillers or nonprescription ones. Associated l'ress 
pain medicines. Another 20 percent have stopped 
Nonprescription pain reliever sales taking painkillers altogether. 
TRENTON, N.J. -For years, jumped more by double digits in late Advisers to the Food and Drug Americans have been popping 2004, but doctors and other pain Administration meet for three days painkillers like they were candy to experts believe many patients are starting Wednesday t.o try to find a treat everything from headaches t.o simply suffering in silence, confused balance between the benefits and arthritis. But new data shows about what pain medication is best potential dangers of Cox-2 drugs. America's love affair with the med­for them. FDA eventually is likely to require ieations may have cooled off after the ''I've been in practice for 30 years strong warnings on the drugs' labels, blockbuster drug Vioxx was pulled and I've never seen such a mess," further dampening Cox-2 sales, pre­from the market over safety con­said Dr. Michel Dubois, director of dieted independent pharmaeeut.icals cerns. the New York University Pain analyst Hemant Shah of IlKS & Co. in 
New data show sales of prescrip­Management Center. Warren, N.J. tion arthritis drugs plunged at the He estimates about 20 percent of Meanwhile, data releasnd Monday end of 2004, after Merck & Co. Inc. of his patients have switched from Cox-by IMS Health of Plymouth Meeting, Whitehouse Station, N.J., pulled 2 inhibitors, the painkiller class Pa., show prescriptions filled for Cox-Vioxx from the market Sept. 30 and a including Vioxx and Pfizer Inc.'s 2 inhibitorS' had fallen 43 percent in string of recent studies raised safety Celebrex and Bextra, to narcotic December 2004 from a year earlier. 


page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
ToGo 

One person killed at strike in capital city 
Citizens protest dictator's son as president 
Associated Press 
LOME -Police shot and killed at least one demonstra­tor Monday as an opposition long used to repression tried to step up protests against the army's installation of the late dictator's son as president. 
Pressure from other coun­tries mounted on Togo's lead­ership as crowds in the capital blocked roads and intimidated residents to enforce an oppo­sition call for a general strike. 
Regional heavyweight Nigeria, which has spearhead­ed West African demands that Togo reverse the constitution­al changes that were pushed through to make Faure Gnassingbe president, said it would do whatever is needed to ensure peace in the region. It did not rule out the use of force. 
Femi Fani-Kayode, a spokesman for President Olusegun Obasanjo, did not say if Nigeria or any regional group was considering send­ing troops in Togo, a country of 5.5. million people. 
But he warned: "Nigeria has the most disciplined, the most well-equipped and the most cohesive and effective fighting force on the African conti­nent." Fani-Kayode also reit­erated a warning to Togo not to harm the sizable Nigerian community in the country. 
The 15-nation Economic Community of West African States, or ECOWAS, is expect­ing a response by the end of Tuesday to its demands that Togo roll back the constitu­tional changes, ECOWAS spokeswoman Adrienne Diop said from Nigeria. 
She said a first stage of sanctions would include a ban on participation in ECOWAS meetings and that ECOWAS could impose trade sanctions. "Troops are always the last option," she said. 
The United States, Britain, France and the 52-nation African Union, currently head­ed by Obasanjo, have con­demned the constitutional changes. 
The killing of the protester Monday took place in the restive neighborhood of Be, an opposition stronghold, where mobs of young people blocked roads and taunted security forces. Togo's Interior Minister Akila Esso-Boko said police shot the demonstrator as he tried to steal an ol'ficer's gun. 
The slaying brought the offi­cial death toll to four during three days of protests. Opposition leaders said secu­rity forces killed 11 people Monday. Those claims could not be verified by The Associated Press. 
In Be, the streets remained largely deserted and stores were shuttered Monday in response to an opposition strike call and tensions that have grown since President Gnassingbe Eyadema died of a heart attack Feb. 5 after 38 years in power. Central Lome was buzzing by early after­noon, however, with motorcy­cle taxis cruising and shop­pers milling around the mar-. ket. 
Soldiers armed with rifles and sticks patrolled Lome's main beach-front boulevard on foot, while trucks packed with riot police moved slowly through Be. 
Earlier in the day, security forces chased and dispersed large roving mobs of young people who were out enforc­ing the opposition strike. The crowds, wearing shirts over their faces and blowing whis­tles, blocked roads with burned-out cars and intimi­dated residents who defied the call to stay indoors. 
"Liberate Togo! Liberate Togo!" the crowds shouted as they chased cars and motorcy­cle taxis .whose drivers braved empty streets. 
"They've killed us for years," said Francis Attiabwe, a 27-year-old armed with a slingshot. "They killed our mothers. They killed our grandmothers, but they will not kill us again. We must 
.
wm.I" 
He took off his cap to show five stitches across his scalp where he said a soldier hit him with a rifle butt Saturday. He had large bruises on his back and arms, which he proudly displayed as trophies. 
Eyadema was known for dealing harshly with dissent, jailing and torturing opposi­tion leaders. The European Union imposed sanctions on Togo in 1993 following allega­tions that security forces opened fire on democracy activists, killing about 20 peo­ple. 
Opposition leaders say seven people were shot and killed by security forces in Saturday's clashes, and that Monday's strike was in part called to mourn the victims. 
The government has con­firmed three demonstrators died Saturday, saying police only fired in the air when pro­testers surrounded them and tried to take their guns. 

Information Session for the University ofNotre Dame's International Study Programs 

Eam NO credit in: 
Dublin, Ireland Toledo, Spain 
Plus, new this summer: 
Berlin, Germany Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico (ND EG courses offered!) 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
Wednesday, February 16, 2005 5:30pm wv 126 DeBartolo Hall 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 1, 2005 

JAPAN 


Teen attacks at his for111er school 
17-year old boy kills teacher with a sashimi knife, wounds two others 
Associated Press latest in a series of rampages 
in Japan involving knives and 
TOKYO -A 17 -year-old boy children. armed with a sashimi knife Police said the teen, who stabbed a teacher to death refused to talk after his and wounded two other adults arrest, used the 8-inch knife Monday at his former elemen­usually reserved for cutting tary school, then stood in the raw fish. Such blades are faculty lounge and smoked a extremely sharp and are nor­cigarette with the bloody mally only accessible to blade still in his hand. trained chefs. 
No students were injured in Terrified teachers watched the midafternoon attack, the the boy from the edges of the 

offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 1 5th 7:30-9:30p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 


faculty room where he was found, as he held the knife in one hand and a cigarette in the other, said a police spokesman, Isoo Noda. 
The attack panicked the 600 students and 30 tnachers at the public school in Neyagawa City just outside Osaka in western Japan. TV video showed small children, guided by adults, running from school buildings. 
Tuesday, February I 5, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
FYS 
continued from page I 
administrator, counselor, eol­lnagun and friPnd," Hatch said in thn rn!11ase. "I lis rkh exp1~rinnen and exnrnplary pPrlc>rmancn idnal­ly suit him for this crucial posi­tion." 
Sinee 1962, the First Year of Studios program has grown into llw solid introduction to Univnrsity lili~ that it is today. In the program -which has rnmainnd rnlatively thn sanw since llofinan designed it :10 years ago -each student is mquirod to takn one semnstnr of writing, onn smninar, two semes­tPrs of mathmnaties, two semeS­ters of sdenee, one semester of history or soc~ial seicmen, nlectivns and two physieal education 
n~quin~mnnl'i. 
Kolman madn many ehanw~s to FYS during lwr 14-year term, ineluding establishi"ng the llnivnrsity Snminar program, the I,.YS Aradnmie Convocation, col­laborativn learning groups and a strong pner-advising prohrram. She also worked to inc:re<L'i!1 thn diver­sil.y of the 14 advisors within the program. 
l'agn spoke VPry highly of his 
pn•dm~Pssor. 
"l>nan Kolman IHL'i bnnn both a nwnl.or and frimul," hn said. " ... ShP has bonn an articulatn spokesperson few the interests of' our first year student<; and a true servant-leader under whose watch tho First Year of' Studies has enjoyod national prominence." 
Indeed, the program has been recognized for excellence by such publications as U.S. News and World Beport and llispanie Magazine. It has also eontributnd to Notre Dame's low freshman attrition rate -tho li>urth-lowest in tho c:ountry after Harvard, Princnton and Yale, according to I Jolimm. 
Page, who joined the Notre Damn lltculty in 1992, hrraduated from Hampton University and went on to earn a theological degrne from General Theologic:al Seminary in New York, as well as a master's and doetoral degree in Near Eastern languages and civi­lizations from llarvard University. 
Now an Episcopal priest, he cur­rently serves as associate dean and director or undergraduate studies in the College of' Arts and Letters and diJ·ector or the Afriean-American Studies pro­gram. lie has taught elasses in biblical studies, Near Eastern lan­guages, ancient myth and theolo­gy. 
Page said he bnliovns his exten­sive backgmund in religion will help him encouraw~ the academic habiL'i of' Notrn Dame frc~shmen. 
"Tiw quest lhr what I would call a 'doep knowledge' of' the eosmos is at the heart or our common life today. Thus, our desire to search, to understand and, thereby, to nnjoy communion with the infinite and one another is something that connects us with the poets, prophet<; and sages n~sponsible lc)r the Bible and other sacred text<;," he said. " ... I would hope to 11ncourage our lirst year student<; to become careful readers, disci­plined autodidads and ambitious explorers who see their courses at Notre Dame as an invitation to a !iii} of critical rnllection and intol­ledual growth that is ongoing." 
Other interests of Page's include poetry, musie, photography and martial arl'i. lie also serves as vol­unteer assistant coach for the Notre Dame mon's varsity tennis team. 
Before Page can put his own mark on the FYS program, howev­er, he must become familiar with it'> intric:aeies. 
"At this point.. my first tasks will be to Iiston and to learn from those who have been on the front lines as advisors and administra­tors in the First Year of Studies. I also need to seek the eounsnl of the deans and faeulty of the other colleges," he said. "Once these things are done, I hopo that all of us can create a common vision for the ruturn." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 



Coach 
continued from page I 
speaking at length about his commitment to the team and answering questions from tho audience. 
"Obviously you care or else you wouldn't be hero this early on a Monday morning," Weis said, minutes after students had chanted his name in antiei­pation of the coach's appear­ance. 
. "''m telling you right now, I don't know how long it's going to take, but we're not going to be a 6-6 football team here very 
long," Weis said. ''I'm telling you call me tho night "I don't know if right now, I don't I was taking the it's going be done Notre Damn job
know how long it's 
in one year. I saying '.Just don't don't if it's going going to take. but take it, tho INFLI to be done in we're not going to job's waiting on three years. I'm you," Weis said.
be a 6-6 football 
not making any "But I wantnd to 
team here very 
promises, but I be horn." can tell you one long." Wois, who thing -every attendnd Notrn wonk we're going Dame, incorpo­
Charlie Wels 
be competitive." ratnd a slight bit 
Irish football coach
Wois was origi­of humor when nally scheduled explaining his to greet the stu-reasons for dents in the Joyce Cnnter choosing tlw Irish job. Football Auditorium, but the "Onn of my altc1nHttivns was Notro Dame Sports Information to go to the Miami Dolphins," stall' moved tho event into tlw he said. "So I wont to my wife: 
"Our !assistant rndorl came in this morning and woke us all up," Barrett said ....1 was impressod. IWeisl had a good sense of humor. lin was straight lilrward." 
Weis, who rm:cmtly won his third Supn1· Bowl (fourth over­all) in four years as oll'nnsive coordinator with tho New England Patriots, juggled Notro Damc~ roc.ruiting responsibili­tios and tho New England play­calling job for tho past two months. On Monday, tlw Irish head coach promised students he can now dedieatn 100 por­cent of' his attnntion to tlw Notre~ Dame job he so badly 
wanted. 
"I had people 

Looking for a great summer job? Need $10,000 for tuition? 
This is your chance to have both. 
What: House and property work (often physical labor) at the beach estate of an ND alumnus in East Hampton, NY 
Compensation: $10,000 scholarship, $150 per week spending money, paid travel to and from NY and room and board 


How to apply: Send a full resume and short 

arona wlwn the  'South  Bn<u·h.  
auditorium which holds  "One (~{my  South B1H1d, what's the difl'l•r­ 
approximately  alternatives was to  
70 people overflowed 5:45a.m.  -by  go to the Miami Dolphins, so I went  Wnis said lw chosn South Bend because he and  
Fewer than twenty of the students at Weis' talk were  to my wife: South Beach, South Bend, what's the  his wife would rather raise their son and daughter here. And on  
female. Weis spoke for  dijference?"  Monday morning, the Weis family  
about utes arena,  25 in  min-the then  Charlie Wels Irish football coach  was weleomed by a small portion of the Notre Dame  
answered ques­ student body that  
tions  from  expressed  its  

approximately 6:28 to 6:40 enthusiasm for the beginning a.m., ending in time to get to a of a nnw chapter of Irish lilOt­7 a.m. stall' meeting. ball. 
St. Edward's senior Brendan "I low often do you get to sen Barrett, who 1~ame with 30 of an NCAA football eoaeh his dorm mates to support the speak?" Barrett said. "If Lou coach, said he watched Weis' Holtz or Ara Parsnghian were Dee. 12 press conference when to speak, I would have eomn to the new eoaeh was hired to hear them." replace the fired Tyrone Willingham. But Barrett had not seen Weis in person until Contact Pat Leonard at Monday. pleonard@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

To all the books I've loved before 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lazar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINFSS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hertler  

NEWs EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVEimSING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD DFSIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter 
CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the sruden~ ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror. Assistant Managing Editor and d~parrment editors. C_.ommentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qr«stiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
fu Ob$C!rvct (USPS 5~ 2-4000) i~ publish~.:d Monday through Friday ~x.c~t during c:xam 11nd ononion perio~. A subscription tel The Ol~r is $l 00 for one academic fellt; $:)') fot OM SC'Ole$lCT. 
The Obscrvc:r is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Seu.d addre!os cortccriom w: Notre Dame, IN 46556..:0779 Tht!ObS<:rver Periodial po~t"&t paid at Noue Dame P.O. Box779 ~nd additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nom Oamt,IN 46~56-0779 
The: Observer is a member afthe Associ:tu:d Prest. All reproduction rights are rC'St'I'Ved. 
Around Feb. 14, harried Viewpoint columnists at The Observer begin to hammer out a plethora of columns related to love and Valentine's Day. Let's be honest-there's not much else going on at Notre Dame at this Katie Boyle time of year. As an English major and For J1!hat It's therefore a romantic Worth (who among our ranks is not?), Valentine's Day has always brought forth ideas from my favorite plays, novels and films. 
At all ages, our conception of love is aided by the arts. From a seven-year­old obsession with "The Sound of Music" and the romance between the characters of Julie Andrews and Christopher Plummer to my current undying love for the movie "Annie Hall," I learned both how to be con­stant and how to adapt. Practically 
-every day of second grade when I came home from school, I would start "The Sound of Music" where it had left the day before. If that's not a crash course in fidelity, I don't know what is. Although I still retain my affection for the film, as I grew older, the quirky sarcasm of Woody Allen grew more and more appealing, . showing me that in love, as in life, it's all right to grow into something new, and perhaps better, yet view the past with a pleasant nostalgia. 
How an author defines or captures love has always been fascinating to me, and the dreary South Bend mists of late readily bring to mind Emily Bronte's "Wuthering Heights." In the novel, Catherine says of Heathcliff, "Whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same." In all of lit­erature, this line has always been one of my favorites, expressing the ulti­mate fusion between two people who 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
love one another. . 

From Gatsby's hopeless passion to the star-crossed love of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, these works of art demonstrate, as Shakespeare writes in "A Midsummer Night's Dream," "The course of true love never did run smooth." But the fact the play­wright and Fitzgerald even chose to commit these stories to print, love. Watch "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind." Look at Gustav Klimt's "The Kiss." Read "Wuthering Heights" or "Gone with the Wind." And don't ever think you can't find or create this kind of romance in your own world. 
As Erica Jong once queried, "Do you want me to tell you something really subversive? Love is 
as well as their lasting 
everything it's cracked up popularity today, shows to be. That's why people 
readers still recognize the emotions of these characters. Although some would describe these loves as futile, they are nonetheless vital. 
In life, as in literature, we learn from our experi­ences and our heartbreaks. Yet still, how can one not admire, in Fitzgerald's own words, "some heightened sensi­tivity to the promises of life ... an extraordi­nary gift for hope, a romantic readiness?" 

The lesson in all of these tales is we should never give up on the ideals of love. Think of it as a rallying cry -rather than describing yourself as a hopeless romantic, perhaps the term should be hopeful. So ... hopeful romantics unite! Don't be afraid to admit how much you liked "Love Actually" or "Casablanca." 
Like Don Quixote, tilt at the wind­mills of life in search of that ideal 
are so cynical about it ... It really is worth fighting for, being brave for, risking everything for. And the trouble 
is, if you don't risk anything, you risk even 
more." 
So risk it. Risk love. In literature and in this vast 
cosmos we 
call life, it's 
one of the things that makes it all 

worthwhile. As I said before, read "Gone with the Wind," but unlike Scarlett O'Hara, don't wait and think about this tomorrow. Think about love today. 
Katie Boyle is a senior English. 
political science and Spanish major. 
She supports the Democratic Party. 
She can be reached at 
kboyle2@nd. edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Sarah Vabulas Heather Van Jen Rowling Hoegarden Do the Vagina Monologues Julie Bender Erie Retter 
belong at Notre Dame? 
Viewpoint Thomas Dorwart Katherine Rowley Scene Graphics Ram a 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at
Desiree Zamora Gottumkkala 
www.ndsmcobserver.com
Illustrator Katie Knorr 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Taking a new step, uttering a new word, is what people fear most." 
Fyodor Dostoyevski Russian novelist 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 15, 2005 page II 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
U-WIRE 

Ho111osexuals excluded once again 

Which Howard 
ll should come as no sur­prise that Bishop John D'Arcy is once again condemning an attempt to bring a sense of inclusion to homosexuals at Notre Dame. In a Feb. 10 let­tnr to thn South Bend Tribune, the bishop blasted the Notre Dame ()ucer Film Festival, calling it "an abuse of academ­ie lhwdom" and elaiming that by sponsoring the festival, "the rights of others are violated." This responsn exhibits a lack of understanding of the lilm festival's purposn. The aim is to unite people of diiT11rent ori­entations in dialogue to pro­motn a sense of tolerance and acceptanee bt~twoen all peo­ple, regardless of their differ­nnccs. 
D'Arcy's past comments coneerning homosexuals and the Chureh have rellectcd sim­ilar exclusionary views. This is the same man who has long lobbied for the exclusion of homosnxual men from the priesthood. In 1979 D'Arcy ehaired a committee and per­sonally wrote the majority of a pastoral letter on priestly for­mation by the New England bishops in which the bishops state, in regard ti1 the admis­sion of seminarians, "Young men who are truly homosexual should not be admitted ... Young men who are excessive­ly effeminate should not be admitted." This was also D'Arcy's response in the wake of the sexual abuse scandal that roeked the Church, and even as late as this past sum­mer D'Arcy was once again calling for a ban on homosexu­al priests. lie has continued to make this call for a ban despite having produced no evidence the abuse scandal has any link to the sexual ori­entation of the abusers. 
In his letter, D'Arcy claims homosexuals "belong in the mainstream of our Catholic life, not shunned." After his continual efforts to keep homosexuals from the priest­hood and his current condem­nation of the Queer Film Festival, this call for inclusion is most certainly a hollow one. 

Prepare to see his overly enthusias-

Protecting free speech 

tic Iowa Staff Editorial 
Wlwn you think offree speech, what rights come to mind? i\t the core of free speeeh. should not sp11eeh eoncerning political and soda! concerns be the most protnctnd? Should not the attempts at cen­sorship on these types of speech alarm us the most? 
A li~w days ago, th11 Suprnme Court refused to cor­rnet several of the lower courl'i that restricted spmlch ainwd at political and social con­
result of his ascension, the
cerns. In many statns, pnople wished 
muzzling your opponent's point of 
to put slogans on their license plates, the type of which wn have all snnn bnli1n~. Any intnrnst 

~! ° Choo~ l(fe,... oe_ 

group, if it collnets enough si1,rnaturns, wishes to pur­chlL'in the spneialty plate and arn willing to pay a li1e to ollset the cost to thn state, are allowed to engage in nxpression in this li1rum. Slogans such a'i "Kids first" or "Save the wildlite" arc sorrw examples. Hncently, hownver, Plannnd Parenthood got up in arms bm~ausn many states, upon tlwir citizens mnnting thn nncessary signaturn and papnr­work rnquirnmenl'>, introducnd "Choose Lifn" or "Hespnct Lif'n" typn plates. 


First, thny demanded that a pro-choice plate or somn­thing similar be allow11d, dnspitn the fact they nevnr met the nncessary si1,rnature require­
concession speech Iowa State 
any venue." If you are unable to collect the neces­

trotted out University sary signatures for the required showing of interest, 
by sarcas­Daily a neutral requirement dating long back before the 
tic conser­abortion debate entered this venue for expression, 

vative commentators for the you had, and still have, a lair chance. Your message 
next several years. is not being muzzled just because fewer people are 
Although a few vocal interested in proclaiming it. Disallowing pro-lifers 
Democrats are prophesying to express their respect and love for life is 
doom for the party as a 


,~IM'liT 

4D INDIANA • 

agnnda goals because of a lack of internst or nurnlmrs among them, so thny sued for it lngally. Sneing this efli1rt fail. they sued again to cen­sor the pro-life message, arguing it would bo "view­point diserimination." Last time I cheeked, when poople choose to exprnss one message instead of another in <i neutrally run government lbrum, there was no ground to daim viowpoint discrimination. When individual<; choos1~ one message instead of another. the government is not discriminating. 1'1~opln aro voicing their opinion. 
Ironieally, Planned Parenthood's president, Gloria Fnldt, said on thn issue, "Free speech dons not mean muzzling opposing poinl'i of view ... America's pro­~~hoiCil majority deserves a fair chance to be heard in While D'Arcy, in his role as defender of the Church's teaching, has focused on the 
Dean will lead
opposition to homosexual acts, he has remained largely silent on the issue of respect and understanding toward homo­sexuals. 

the DNC?
He has offered superficial words of acceptance to homo­sexuals but has neglected to support in a meaningful way the importance of Church teaching on respect, compas­sion and sensitivity toward them. We only wish D'Arcy would have the same zeal in accepting homosexuality according to Church teaching as he does in condemning it. Ours is a faith marked by Christ's love, and we must show that love in our accept­ance and caring for all people, regardless of sexual orienta­tion. 
Joseph Wysocki Brad Tucker sophomores 


Old College Feb. 14 

So, Howard Dean is offi­
cially the chairman of the 
Democratic National 
Committee. 

overall party support for
view. 

Dean is quite impressive.
This justification for this cen­

According to a recent Gallup
sorship ironically came from 

poll. 63 percent of DNC
the First Amendment. There eating. The new Hepublican chairman, Ken Mehlman, showed talent in all of those areas as the chairman of President Bush's re-election campaign. Dean, too, has excelled at fund raising, set­ting a record pace for the Democratic primary race in 2003. As a public figure, his access to avenues of com­munication will be enhanced, but there is always the question of what he'II be saying. lie found most of his support for the position and has a deeidedly mixed record in one area­organizing. 

llis campaign fell apart because of a lack of disci­plined organization, espe­cially at the highest levels. But as governor, he man­aged the only state in the nation that doesn't mandatn a balanced budget and bal­anced it anyway in every one of his 11 years in office. lie brought Vermont's bond rating from the lowest in New England to the highest by paying off debt. Ire raised minimum wage, lownred taxes, grew the workforce by 20 percent and improved health care and prescription drug cov11rage for the state's children and elderly. It's hard to argue with his record of success in the position of executive, although he was certainly aided by being around dur­ing the boom years of Bill Clinton's presidency. 
If this Dean shows up for the job, the Demoerats are iri good hands. But if. instead, the Dean of the past two years comes to thn job, the Democratic Party's jour­ney through the wilderness may have just gotten longer. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Feb. 14 edi­tion ofIowa State Daily. the daily publication at Iowa State University. 
The views expressed in this editorial are thosl~ of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
is only one reason such a result occurred: certain 
judges in our federal eourts are willing to bend any rule to 
advance their politkal support for abortion. When they inside-out 
free speech protec­tion, however, they have simply gone way too far. We should all take note that this organization that pur­
ports to promote indi­vidual choice as a paramount value, even 
over life. has engaged in censorship of the politi­

cal and social concern type ofspeech the First Amendment was foremost 

members believe Dean will do an "excellent" job as chair, with another 27 per­cent expecting "good" per­formance. With a 90-percent favorable rating from those most intimate with his ideas for the party. it seems pre­mature to discount his abili­ty. 
The most pressing ques­tion about Dean's chairman­ship is whether we will see the feisty but gaffe-prone presidential candidate or the moderate and effective six-term governor of Vermont. Whether you agree with his statements or not, it is hard to argue that most Americans were not excited about quotes like, "The cap­
nwnl'i. They could not meet their 
Zogby, an independent pollster, has 
be found guilty, we should 
enacted to protect. 

ture of Saddam Hussein has 
not made America safer," or
Planned Parenthood has also 

"Even with people like
fought against fetal pain notifica­

Osama, who is very likely to
tion laws. despite the fact that 

do our best not to ... pre­by a 75 percent to 18 percent margin. As a soeie­
polled Amerieans supporting the mea'iure 

judge jury trials." Dean's ty. we currently do less about the horrible pain suf­
position. in the absence of l'en~d by unborn babies during abortion than we do 
any clear Democratic Party to prevent pain for livestock. Without delving into 
leader, will give him a mega­the gru11some details, one mea'iure we should imme­
phone for whieh we hope he diately take is to at least provide the unborn babies 
is now better prepared. with anesthesia so their deaths will not involve 
The 447 voting members excruciating, highly-inhumane pain, and mothers 
of the DNC that feel so confi­should have the right to know the level of pain 
dent in Dean's leadership involved for the unborn babies. 
presumably saw something else in the man. The position Brian Noonan 
of party chair is a complicat­Law sntdent 
ed mix of fund raising, Feb. 14 
organizing, and communi­
r-------~ 
Tt·IE OBSERVER 

I 
I 
I 
i 
CENE

page 12 
Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
DVD REVIEWS 

Ryan, Seth and crew-shine in pop .culture phenom.enon 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Scene Critic 
If you take the setting of "Beverly Hills 90210," the "teens-using-SAT-caliber­vocabulary" dialogue of "Dawson's Creek," the attractiveness of the people in your average Abercrombie ad and the non-stop scandal of a soap opera, you'll end up with a show like "The O.C." The Fox hit manages to combine these seem­ingly incompatible elements into a highly entertaining, highly addictive show ­and "The O.C.: Season One" DVD set offers enough extras and insights to make any obsessive-compulsive "O.C." fan happy. 
The show follows 16-year-old Ryan (Benjamin McKenzie), a kid from the wrong side of the tracks with an alco­holic mother and a father who's in jail. After he is arrested as an accomplice to his older brother's car theft, he moves to Newport Beach with his lawyer, Sandy Cohen (Peter Gallagher). Sandy, his wife Kirsten (Kelly Rowan) and his son Seth (Adam Brody) adopt Ryan as one of their own, bringing the former Chino resident "Play All" feature, language options including subtitles in English; Spanish and French and the obligatory special features. The special features are spread among the seven discs, so there is no one disc that includes all of the bonus materi­al. 


The extras include interviews, deleted scenes, several featurettes and a look at the second season. The best extra is the "On-Screen Music Track Guide," which displays a credit for each song as it plays during the episode and gives information about each band. "The O.C." is quickly becoming known for featuring lesser-known artists like Death Cab for Cutie on the show, so this feature sheds light on that aspect of the show as well. The worst feature is "Inside the Heal O.C.," in which a producer interviews kids from the real O.C. They come off sounding pretentious, and the feature is really just an obnoxious waste of space. 
Overall, "The O.C." is a major phenom­enon in entertainment, and the DVD set, though weak in spots, proves to be a fit­ting vehicle for this hugely popular show. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

from having nothing to living in luxury in Orange County. Unfortunately, the O.C. may be an even easier place for Ryan to get into trouble. 
Ryan's relationship with Seth is one of the most believable parts of the show, with both actors working well together. They bond ove_r girl troubles, including Ryan's pursuit of Marissa (Mischa Barton), a rich socialite who is living proof money can't buy happiness, and Seth's chase of Summer (Rachel Bilson), the almost-unattainable girl of his dreams. Along with their friends, family, co-workers and fellow students, the four main characters manage to get into a great deal of trouble, which at times can be ridiculous but is, on the whole, extremely entertaining. The show seems to pack in as much scandal, romance and drama as is humanly possible into one hour. Yet it never manages to completely shake free of a solid base in realism. The balance between the ludicrous and the reality that "The O.C." maintains is what draws viewers back week after week. 
The DVD set is full of great extra mate­rials, but its case is flimsy and easily bro­ken. This DVD set, like so many other 
collections of television shows, cannot seem to find a durable means of storing the discs, which is extremely frustra~ing for consumers. 
The first six discs of the set include four 44­minute episodes per disc and the seventh DVD includes the final three episodes of the season. The set-up includes a 

Hilarious comedy lands on DVD as an instant classic 
been shooting incessantly around cam­pus. 
What can be said about "Napoleon Dynamite?" The title character, played by Jon Heder, is classic. He's a high school kid going through awkwardness's awkward stage. He draws unicorns and ligers, which are probably his favorite animal. It's a lion and a tiger rriixed, bred for its skills in magic. Napoleon wishes he had some skills other than drawing, though, because girls only want boyfriends who have great skills­numchuck skills, bowhunting skills, computer hacking skills. You get the idea. 
Napoleon's older brother Kip (Aaron Ruell) chats online with babes all day. He considers joining a dojo called Rex­Kwon-Do, where he'll learn to fight with the strength of a grizzly, the reflexes of a puma and the wisdom of a man. Eventually he helps their Uncle Rico (Jon Gries) sell Tupperware knock-offs door-to-door instead. 
Napoleon and Kip (who, by the way, is 30 years old) live in rural Idaho with their grandma, who keeps a ham-loving pet llama named Tina. See where this film is going yet? It's completely absurd 
but undeniably funny. The Hess brothers fash­ion a nice little plot that moves at a very relaxed pace, allowing subtle humor to thrive along the path to a very uplifting ending. 
One caution is the added wedding scene after the credits. The Iless brothers made this film independently, and 
By CHRIS KEPNER Scene Critic. 
"Napoleon Dynamite" is pretty much the best movie ever made. How can any­one even know that? It just is! Gosh! It's incredible! 
And now that it's out on DVD one would have to be an idiot not to buy it. 
If anyone uses these euphemisms around campus lately, don't be sur­prised. They are a staple for the title character in "Napoleon Dynamite" and add a certain charm to this hilarious film. 
It all started as a student film called "Peluca," written and directed by Jared !less in 2002. Recognizing the potential of this hilarious character, who was originally named Seth, Jared and his brother, Jerusha Hess, wrote a script expanding the concept into a feature­length film. ·supposedly by coincidence, Napoleon Dynamite was the pseudonym that Elvis Costello used on his 1986 album "Blood and Chocolate." 
Seriously though, anyone who hasn't seen this film really needs to. It will at least explain the one-liners that have film cost. And it's terrible! Its grotesque­ly bromidic Hollywoodification should infuriate fans of the aetual lilm. Luckily, all you have to do is stop the DVD before this scene starts and you'll have a bril­liant, original and hilarious film. The DVD includes a very entertaining com­mentary track as well as the original short film, "Peluea." 



As Napoleon himself would say, heek yes, you should buy this! 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 
Fox Searchlight bought it at the 2004 Sundance Film Festival, later partnering with Paramount Pictures and MTV Films to distribute it. Now, what usually happens time and time again when independent films go corporate? They're changed and often ruined! Granted, it could have been a great deal worse for "Napoleon Dynamite." 
The corporate meddling has been con­fined mostly to the promotional spots and the wedding scene, which ended up costing about half of what the entire 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Smith's comedic talent shines in fresh film 
By EMILY IAROCCI 
Scene Critic 
Will Smith is best known for his light­lwartnd eonwdk style in film and tnlevi­siorl. While lw is capable of' vnrsatility, corrwdy is cnr·tainly his l'ortn. 
"IIi tr h" is tlw latl~st installment of' Smith's eonwdk film roles. All the hype preceding tl11• rp(ease of' this movin is well dnsPrvnd, which is ran~ thnse days in llollywood. Movies that arn grnat.ly anticipated gnrwrally fall short of' tlwir ambitions. "llitch" proves to be an exception to the ruin. 
In this l'ilrn. Smith combines his ,·onwdk talent with that of Kevin Janws, thn lead dutract111' in thn tnlevision show, "Tlw King of' Qun1~ns." "Hitch" grabs tlw audi­
who is despnratoly in love with Allegra (Amber Valetta), an heiress with· her own foundations and money coming out of her ears. Albert hires Hitch to help him woo her. On his own, Albert feels completely undesirable and certainly does not have the confidence to make himself' rwticnable, mueh less to ask her out. Albert is quite a challenge for Hitch. But despite the presumed down­ralls of Albnrt's rather clumsy and exag­gerated attempts to gnt her to notice him, Allegra does indeed become intnr­nsted in Albert. 
Whiln Hitch is helping Albert win over the woman. or his dreams. he linds his own in tho lilm's narrative. On his lirst encountor with Sara, played by Mendns, Hitch plays his usual tricks and man­ages to catch her attention. When· they 
actually start 

nnrn's attention going on dates,
Hitch

right from thn however, Hitch b1~ginning and 
becomes just like dons not losn it at every man that
I any point. Thn two -~·-·· he helps -any­arlors, along with thing but smooth 
Director: Andy Tennant

t•:va Mendns, havn and suddenly
Writer: Kevin Bisch 

oxcnllnnt conwdic accident-prone.
Starring: Will Smith, Eva Mendes, Kevin

elw mis try, and The real comic 
James, AmberValletta, Julie Ann Emery

tlwy l'it perfnctly value of this 
and Nathan Lee Grahaminto thnir rnspec­tive r.haraetPr roles. "Hitch" is a d1dinitn must see for the new year. 

Smith plays Alex "Hitch" Hitchens, the l>atn Doctor. I!itch holps those men who arn dnsperately in love with women they considnr out of thnir league. lin teaches tlwm how to be smooth and interesting so they can win ovnr their respective love intnrnsts. Albert, played by James, is a chubby, rnid-levnl financial advisor 
movie comes 
from the disas­
trous events that occur l'or the two leading men as they date their dream women. Along the way, Hitch learns it is often those disastrous events and clumsy moments that make men more endearing to women and help them ligure out if they do love the man they are dating. 
The screenplay for "Hitch" is hilari­ous, and first-time screenplay writer 


Kevin Bisch deserves praise for his suc­cessful foray into screenwriting. Director Andy Tennant, who has direct­ed such films as "Sweet Home Alabama," "Fools Hush In" and "Ever After," did a great job working with the aetors and creating seemingly perfect comedic scenes that leave the audience in stitches. 
Finally, the actors and actresses cho­sen for this lilm could not possibly havo fit their rolos any bettor. and the char­acter development makes watching "lliteh" very enjoyable. 
If you are in the mood to laugh and watch a couple of men make fools out of themselves for the womon they love, the movie to see this month is "Hitch." 
Contact Emily Iarocci at eiarocci@nd.edu 
Acclaimed dramatic comedy lives up to expectations 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scrnc Critic 
It's difficult to go into a f'ilm like "Sidnways" without any expectations. Tlw most a1~clainwd film of 2004 is already nxJwrinnr.ing backlash, to the nxtnnt that The Now York Times critie 
A.O. Scott dedarml it the most overrat­ml picture of tho year. But the truth is th1~ praise for dirnetor Aloxandor l'ayn~~·s latest -and best -film is complnt1dy warranted. "Sideways" is his most fully realiznd, sensitivn lilm to date and a grnat 1·haracter study of middle-ago angst. 
The plot rnvolvns around failing author Milns Haymond (Paul Giarnattil. who takes his best 
alcoholic loser" aspect of his character with the more sympathetic facet of Miles as a sensitive, struggling author. It's a dirticult role, and Giamatti plays it perfectly -the audience is able to identify with a character who really isn't a niee guy, but who is self-aware of his personality flaws. Church gets the llashior role as Jack, but manages to keep the character grounded. Madsen is an Oscar frontrunner for her role as Miles' love interest, Maya, and it's easy to see why. llnr charactnr provides the heart for this plot. espeeially in a phe­nomenal monologue about how she bocamo a wino connoiss1mr. 
"Sideways" is a film of simple pleas­urns. It is an often funny, often uncom­fortabln comedy/drama that reveals 
itself slowly. It is 

friend .Jack l.apatn witty, poignant
Sideways

(Thomas lladnn and carries a Churrh) on a road 
surprising am­trip through ount of emotional Ca Iifor n i a wi n e weight. The film r.ount.ry in thn is small and inti­Director: Alexander Payne 
wonk bd'on~ Jack mate and the 
Writers: Alexander Payne and Jim

is to be married. audience comes 
Taylor

Along tlw way, to be attached to
Starring: Paul Giamatti, Thomas Haden

l.lwy 1md up nwet­the characters. 
Church, Virginia Madsen and Sandra Oh

ing Maya (Virginia Everything works 
Madsen) and SI.Pphanin (Sandra Ohl. This simple plot forms t.hP framework around which l'ayrw nxplorns tho inrwr workings of tho film's characters and tlwir rniddlo­agn snnsn of failure. In nlTnet, it is thn kind of buddy-road-movin that turns its conventions insidn out. 
<;iamatli was unfairly rohlwd of' an Academy Award nomination for "Sideways." lin balancns tho "divorced 
in this picture ­tho acting, the directing, the screen­writing and tho wondnrf'ul einmnatogra­phy. ll is well-written and artfully directed by Payne, who realizes that the characters drive the lilm and allows the tu~tors nnough room to play their parts. 
It is hard to judge a film likn "Sideways" precisely because there doesn't appear to bn anything wrong with it. First impressions indicate it is a tion does it distinguish itself. Oncn it does, however, audiences realize they are watching a modest dassie, a minor mastorpiecn that mveals itsoll' as one of the best pktures of the y1H1.r. 


Go into it with an opnn mind, devoid of oxpeetations and allow yourself' to hn drawn in to the woozy, wirw-soaknd world l'ayrw and Giamatti havn crnatnd. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
very good film. but not quite a master­piece. Although it is a very good lilrn, its longevity seems to be in question. It is initially hard to tell whether or not a film like "Sideways" is a dassie for all time. 
Perhaps this is because the lilm is so small and intimate. It doesn't leave the audience with the fooling of having been blown away by a modern elassie. Instead, it is like the line winos in the film that Milns critiquos -only upon dose examination and careful percnp­

page 14 The Observer + ClASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 15,2005 
NBA 

Iverson drops 38 as Philadelphia tops New York 106-105 
Amare Stoudamire scores 42 points to lead Suns to victory in high scoring, 136-128 contest against the Jazz 
AP 

Left, Amare Stoudamlre grabs a rebound from the Jazz's Jarron Collins in their game. Center, Stephon Marbury, right, shoots over Marc Jackson late in the second half of the teams' game. Right, the Pistons' Ronald Dupree fouls the Bucks' Daf'l Gadzuric while going for a rebound. 
Associated Press points and 12 rebounds, Steve but the opening minutes of the points of the third quarter to go bounds off Nachbar, allowing 
Nash matched a season high first half, got a burst of energy up 67-41. Milwaukee went Washington to retain possession 
PHI LADE LP H IA-Alle n with 18 assists and the Phoenix when three more Jazz players scoreless for more than six min­with 4 7 seconds left. Arenas Iverson made a nifty pass to Suns held off the Utah Jazz. got into foul trouble early in the utes spanning the second and then made a driving layup into a Marc Jackson for the winning Quentin Richardson added 22 third quarter. third. crowd of defenders to tie it with layup with a second left, and the points, including a 3-pointer Harpring, who replaced Hornets 98, Wizards 96 38.4 seconds left. Philadelphia 76ers moved back with 1:21 left that opened a Kirilenko at small forward, and J .R. Smith scored 18 points Trail Blazers 80, Bobcats 77 to .500 and into a tie for first 128-121lead. Nash scored 19 to starters Mehmet Okur and Raul and Dan Dickau hit a pair of go­Nick Van Exel hit a 29-foot place in the Atlantic Division help Phoenix (41-12) move a Lopez all picked up a fourth foul ahead free throws with 4.5 sec­desperation heave at the buzzer with a 106-105 victory over the half-game ahead of idle San in a 46-second span. onds left, sending the New to give the Portland Trail New York Knicks on Monday Antonio for the NBA's best Pistons 107, Bucks 83 Orleans Hornets to a victory Blazers a win over the Charlotte night. record. Rasheed Wallace had 17 over the Washington Wizards . Bobcats. 
Iverson was trapped on the Shawn Marion had 18 points points and 10 rebounds, leading Gilbert Arenas had 34 points Van Exel was trapped near baseline.when he found Jackson and Joe Johnson 13 for the the Detroit Pistons to a rout of for Washington, but his 3-point midcourt on the fmal possession charging through the lane. The Suns, who took three games the Milwaukee Bucks. attempt at the buzzer bounced before throwing a pass on the All-Star guard fired a perfect from the Jazz to win the season The Pistons won for the eighth off the front of the rim. left sideline to DerPk Anderson. pass to Jackson, who scored series 3-1 for the first time since time in nine games and com­Chris Andersen had 16 points He flipped the ball through a from the right side. 1992-93. pleted a dominant 3-0 homes­and nine rebounds for the double-team back to Van Exel, 
The Knicks had one last Stoudemire scored 15 of tand. In five days, they beat the Hornets, converting an alley-oop who drained the off-balance 3­chance, but Nazr Mohammed's Phoenix's 40 points in the third Los Angeles Lakers, Washington dunk and a tip-in on consecutive pointer from the left wing. shot was off the mark and they quarter to help the Suns over­Wizards and Milwaukee by an possessions to help New Orleans It was the seventh consecutive lost for the eighth time in 10 come a four-point halftime average of 22.3 points. maintain a slim lead late in the loss for the Bobcats -and the games. deficit. Richardson's 25-footer, Milwaukee was missing fourth quarter. second in a row on a 3 at the 
Iverson followed his career­his seventh 3 of the game, was Michael Redd (finger) for the Bostjan Nachbar added 15 buzzer. On Sunday, Tim Thomas high 60-point game against Phoenix's last field goal, but the second game in a row. The points, P.J. Brown 13 and got a friendly roll on a 3-pointer Orlando on Saturday night with Suns held on from the foul line, Bucks had a three-game win­Rodney Rogers 12. to give New York a 102-99 victo­38 points against New York. fmishing 33-of-42. ning streak snapped. Antawn Jamison had 30 ry. 
Iverson, who came in averag­Both teams set a season high Chauncey Billups also scored points and 12 rebounds for Joel Przybilla scored a career­ing an NBA-leading 29.7 points, for points. 17 points for Detroit, which had Washington, but the Wizards high 19 points and added 17 started with a finger-roll layup The Jazz had six players in six players in double figures. reserves were outscored by the rebounds, and Damon on his very first shot and rarely double figures, three off the Ben. Wallace had 11 points and Hornets' bench 39-12. Stoudamire and Ruben strayed from his slashing and bench, but couldn't earn coach 12 rebounds. Washington outrebounded Patterson had 1 7 points each for crashing style. Jerry Sloan his 953rd victory to Erick Strickland led New Orleans 48-34, and the the Blazers, who ended a three­
Again, he got to the free­tie Dick Motta for seventh place Milwaukee with 18 points and Wizards had 17 offensive game losing streak. throw line often, making 15 of on the NBA's career list. former Piston Mike James rebounds, which nearly won Portland won despite playing 17 foul shots and shooting 11-Raja Bell had a season-high scored 13. them the game. without leading scorer and for-24 from the floor. He also 22 points, Howard Eisley had a The Pistons broke it open in Down 94-88, Washington rebounder Zach Randolph, who added 10 assists, including a season-high 20 and 11 assists, the last 4:42 of the first half. missed three shots on one pos­missed hjs eighth game since stylish alley-oop to Andre and Matt Harpring had 16 They were leading only 44-39 session but rebounded all three, January with recurring pain in Iguodala. points and 10 rebounds. when backup forward Antonio getting the ball to Juan Dixon his right knee. 
Iverson said he'd trade points Andrei Kirilenko had 11 points McDyess was ejected for argu­for a floater that cut the deficit Jason Kapono, who had been for a championship, and while and four assists when he ing with referee Derrick to four. 0-for-5, hit a 3-pointer with 9 the Sixers (26-26) aren't on any­sprained his right ankle 4:18 Stafford. After Smith's spin into the seconds left to tie the game after body's list as title contenders, into the second quarter, and That seemed to energize lane for a driving layup put New the Bobcats trailed by five earli­they returned to .500 for the Carlos Boozer, Utah's leading Detroit, which held Milwaukee Orleans ahead 96-90, er in the quarter. first time since they were 6-6 on scorer, injured his right foot to just two points the rest of the Washington came back with Charlotte played without lead­Nov. 26. They share first place with 44 seconds left in the sec­quarter and took a 17-point three straight baskets to tie it, ing scorer and rebounder with the Boston Celtics. ond quarter, leaving the game edge into halftime. Rasheed including Jamison's putback Emeka Okafor, who missed his 
Philly hasn't had a winning with 14 points and nine Wallace scored eight of his 13 after yet another offensive second straight game and sev­record since it was 4-3 on Nov. rebounds. first-half points in the 14-2 run. rebound. enth in eight games with a 
14. Neither returned, and their Detroit didn't make anything Jamison was fouled on the sprained left ankle. Starting 
Suns 136, Jazz 128 absence hurt Utah on both ends. easier for the Bucks after half­play and missed the free throw, point guard Brevin Knight was Amare Stoudemire had 42 Phoenix, which trailed for all time, scoring the first nine but the rebound went out of out with a sprained right ankle. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS. 
FoR SALE 
One bedroom condo near UND. Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim Kollar 
95 Cougar XR7.Low mileage,sweet ride. :l!4,QOO. Qall(;!;l4-44QO. 
WANTED 
Local alumnus looking for experienced babysitter. Call 360-1617. 
ND/SMC WOMEN: South Bend pro­fessional couple seeks responsible female student(s) to provide evening/overnight care for a few days for two daughters, ages 13 & 7. Located 1 mile from campus in historic district. Must have own transportation. Get away. Earn extra money. Low-stress setting. Call 514-2169. E-mail TomMP@ MBM.org 
BOUNCER WANTED LOCAL PUB 274-4145 532-4933 
TICKETS 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR.TWO BEDROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic Year. Available June 1. 2005. Two(2) Bedrooms-2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System, Fully Furnished. Call 626-441-1275 or Salvaty @ earthlink.net 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for 2005-06 school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student hous­ing. Laundromat next door (drycleaning also), base­ment available for storage of bicy­cles,luggage,trunks,etc.,new fur­nace and central air,new kitchen including new stove and refrigera­tor, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 

5 bdrm on ND Ave available 05-06. 1000/mo. email ndhouses@ yahoo.com 
2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. 1­car garage,close to ND. $850/mo. Caii574-329-0838. Avail. now. 
Spotless Apartments Apartment Cleaning SPECIAL RATES FOR STUDENTS. Emergency Weekend Cleaning Available. Call or Email for FREE Estimate Spotlessapartments @comcast.net 574-968-3670 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAM­PUS.$195/PERSON. AVAIL 05-06. 329-0308 
FoR RENT 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­6386 
16 days until the beach Are you ready? 

-~--------­
'Ii.tesday, February I5, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Texas Tech upsets No.2 Kansas in 2 overtimes 
Behind 20 points from Chevon Troutman, No. 17 Pittsburgh tops No.9 Syracuse to complete regular season sweep 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK, Tnxas-l>arryl Dora hit a :~-pointor with 3.6 seconds rmnaining in tho socond ovnrtimo to givn Toxas Toch 1111 X0-79 vic­tory ovor No. 2 Kansas on Monday night, l.lw .Jayhawks' lirst conf1~n~nc11 loss this soason. 
A desperation shot hy Aaron Milos hounrPd ofl' tho backboard as tho buzznr soundml and tho fans floodml tlw rourt and bngan to l'hant "Bobby, Bobby," for coach Bob Knight, who bnat Kansas for tlw first timo in his four smtsons at 'I'Pxas Todt. 
Knith Langford smred all fivn points in tlw socond ovortinw for tho .Jayhawks (20-2, I 0-1 Big 12). 
Tlw 6-f'oot-IJ Dora. who had missed his filllr :~-point attompts, got tlw dtanct~ to takn thn ganw­wimwr for tlw lkd Haidors (I(!-(,, x-:H wlwn Kansas' Aaron Milos was ralbl for trawling with 7.9 sPronds Jpf'l aflnr grabbing thn rPbound of' a missml by .Jarrius .Jarkson. 
Kansas f'orcnd tlw ovortimn wlwn l.angf'ord srorPd on a drivo with 4.1 sneonds IPI't to tin it at 
Tho .layhawks sont tlw gamo to a snrond ov1~rtimo whnn Christian Moody tipped in a missed layup by Wayne Simien with I sneond to play to tin it at 74. 
Martin Zono lnd Texas Tech with 24 points, while Honald Hoss had 21 points and 11 rebounds. 
Langford led tho .Jayhawks with 24 points and Simien added 20 points and 13 rnbounds. 
No. 17 Pittsburgh 68, No. 9 Syracuse 64 
(;nrry M1:Narna.ra had the ganw in his hands, and Carl Krauser took it back. 
Just 22 seconds af'tor M1:Narnara's :~-point attempt !'rom tho right eornor wont in and out with Syraeuse trailing Pittsburgh by a point with just ovnr a rninuto lof't, Krauser drairwd a long :~ !'rom the top of the key to smut tlw 17th-ranked Panthers to a vietory over tho ninth-ranked Orange. 
"It was onn of' those gamns you just want everything to go right in crunch time," said Krausor, who hit thrnn 3-pointers in tlw final (J:33 to lead Pitt bark from an night-point deficit. "I was real happy that things did go right because we battled back !'rom hard adversity being hero in thn Carrier Dome. Honestly, I didn't evnn know where I was when I shot the ball." 
Pittsburgh (18-4, 8-3 Big East) won !'or the sixth time in seven games and completed a season sweep of tho Orange (22-4, 9-3), who worn coming ofl' their best gamn of tho season, a 90-75 win at No. 25 Villanova on Saturday. 
In their first meeting just over two wonks ago, Syracuse raced to a 22-5 lead midway through the first half' and senmed poised !'or a lopsided road victory. Krauser had other ideas. llold scoreless for 23 minutes, he scored 19 points in the second half and the Panthers won 76-69. 
This comeback was oven more impressivn bncausn it eamn very late and in the not-so-friendly conf'incs of tho Carrier Dome, where Syracusn has boon nearly invincible in the past year. Connncticut broke the Orangn's 16-gamn home winning streak a week ago and Pitt made it two straight. 
"If' I make that shot, we'rn in prntty good shape," said McNamara, who had 16 points and 10 assists but missed 10 3­point attempts. "We shouldn't be losing those games at home. Wn're supposed to win them. It shouldn't have come down to the end. We should have put thorn away. I guess it wasn't meant to bo." 
Chevon Troutman was 16-for­20 from the fren throw line and finished with 20 points and 10 rebounds. Krauser had 15 points and five assists, and Chris Taft had 14 points and 10 rebounds for Pitt, which had a 41-32 rebound advantage. No. 14 Utah 71, Wyoming 62 
Andrew Bogut had 31 points and 13 rebounds and No. 14 Utah extended its winning streak to 17 games with a victory over Wyoming. 
Bogut was 11-of-16 from the finld and recorded his 17th dou­ble-double in Utah's 25 games. lie just missnd his earenr-high of' :n points, set Saturday in a win ovnr Colorado State. 

Utah (22-3, 10-0 Mountain Wnst) improved to 14-0 at home thb season and ti11d the liJIJ0-91 Utes for the second-longest streak in school history. Tho longest is 23 straight in 1998-99. 
Marc Jackson and Hichard Chaney each scored 12 points for the Utes, who used a 13-0 run and held Wyoming (14-9, 6-4) scoreless for a 7-minute strol!~h to pull away midway through the 

AP Pittsburgh's Chevon Troutman, center, Is guarded by Syracuse's Hakim Warrick, left, and Josh Pace during their game. 
seeond half'. Utah outrebounded Wyoming 34-21. 
Jay Straight led tlw Cowboys with 16 points, five eoming in the final . minute as Wyoming stmtrhed the game with f'requnnt timeouL-; and fouls. All it did was cut the margin to single digiL-; as tho Utns swnpt the Cowboys this season. 
Dion Sherrell seornd 12 poinL-; and Justin Williams added 11 f'<1r Wyoming, which eould not stop tho 7 -foot Bogut. Bogut hit layups and hook shots all night and wao; 9-f'or-11 from the free throw line. 
Notre Dame Literary Eestival2005,/7 ?rr-' 
Yhe [!?/-[Oad ~ tJJta~Jeled 
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 15th 

Emma Mclaughlin & Nicola Kraus 
authors of 

•
The Nanny Diar1es 
&new book 
lM N<iNnY j 


Citizen Girl 
reception 9pm 

brought to you by the student union board sub.nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
MEN'S TRACK 
Irish sprinters perform 
vvell at Canadian races 
Dwight Ellick triumphs in 60-meter dash 
By JOHN EVERETT Sports Writer 
A small contingent of Irish runners journeyed to Canada this weekend to compete in the Windsor Team Challenge. 
The Irish only sent a few sprinters and hurdlers to the meet, held at the University of Windsor in Ontario, where Notre Dame competed against the University of Detroit, the University of Windsor, Western Ontario, the University of Guelph and York University. 
Assistant coach Tim Connelly explained the reason behind sending only a few runners to the meet. 
"The conference meet is next week, and we didn't want to send everyone up for this meet," he said. "We needed to get our sprinters some more work on the smaller track since the Big East meet next week will also be run on a 200-meter flat track." 
Despite the low number of performers, the Irish .were not short on solid performances. Trevor McClain-Duer won the. 600-meters in 1 minute, 20.79 seconds. Dwight Ellick, perhaps better known for his exploits in the Irish football team's second­ary, won the 60-meter dash in a time of 6.81 seconds, with teammate and fellow football player Terrail Lambert finishing in second place at 6.84 seconds. Ellick's time is the best for any Big East runner this season. 
Selim Nurudeen and Geoff Bennett provided a similar 1-2 punch in the 60-meter hurdles. Nurudeen won the race in 7.96 seconds, with Bennett finishing in 8.24 seconds. With his Big East qualifying time, Nurudeen will now look to win the Big East 60-meter hurdles champi­onship for the second year in a row. Last year, Nurudeen ran a time of 7.78 seconds to claim the title. 
"We had some pretty good performances up there on the smaller track, and that's encouraging," Connelly said. 
Next weekend, Notre Dame will travel to Syracuse, N.Y. for the Big East Indoor Championships, the meet for which they have spent much of the indoor season preparing. The Irish will look to improve last year's performance, when they barely lost to Connecticut 160-153. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 



1213 Lincolnway West-Mishawaka 
'Corner of Logan & Lincolnway 
(574) 256-1444 
Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for ~\j!) 2.5 years! si]~ ~ lFJF<aunue<e§oo/§ \\ViellcoJnnt!e§ ;atllll ~ 
V.cnllentttLinte§ on V.atllenttit.Jnte>'§ D<aty!!
• c • c • c •.,. 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. Most romantic place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Tuesday-Thursday 
Full bar available 
s:oo-9:oo Friday & Saturday Free bruschetta with ad s:oo-1o:oo 
FrancescoDs needs servers 
MLB 

Canseco's book upsets many 
for interviews. 
In the book, Canseco is an unabashed advocate of per­formance-enhancing drugs. 
"By the time my 8-year-old daughter, Josie, has graduated from high school, a majority of all professional athletes -in all sports -will be taking steroids. And believe it or not, that's good news," he writes. "I have no doubt whatsoever that intelligent, informed use of steroids, combined with Human Growth Hormone, will one day be so accepted that everybody will be doing it. Steroid use will be more com­mon than Botox is now. Every baseball player and pro athlete will be using at least low levels of steroids. As a result, base­ball and other sports will be more exciting and more enter­taining." 
Canseco calls himself the "godfather of steroids in base­ball," saying "I single-handedly changed the game of baseball by introducing them into the game." 



Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Jose Canseco's autobiography accusing several top players of steroid use and charging that baseball long ignored performance-enhanc­ing drugs appeared to be a hit on its first day in bookst~res. 
Amazon.com listed "Juiced: Wild Times, Rampant 'Roids, Smash Hits, and How Baseball Got Big" as third on its best seller list Monday. 
The book had an initial print­ing of 150,000 copies and Regan Books does not disclose sales figures, spokeswoman Jennifer Suitor said. 
"I don't think it's a good thing, obviously, because it's bringing a bad light to the game," New York Yankees cap­tain Derek Jeter said Monday. "This is a time, obviously, base­ball is in a negative light and Jose is not helping out. In terms of his accusations, the only people that know are him and whoever he is accusing. The unfortunate thing is, if it's not true, you're looking at guys having to defend themselves over something they haven't done." 

Mark McGwire, one of the former teammates Canseco accused of using steroids, issued a written denial. 
"The relationship that these allegations portray couldn't be further from the truth," McGwire's statement said. "I also worry how these false allegations will taint the accomplishments of the Oakland Athletics' coaches, players and executives who worked so hard to achieve suc­cess during the era in question, along with the other players and organizations affected by this book. 
"Most concerning to me is the negative effect that sensa­tionalizing steroids will have on impressionable youngsters who dream of one day becoming professional athletes. Once and for all I did not use steroids or any other illegal substance." 
McGwire was not available 
"Thanks to the favor God showed me I laid a foundation as a wise master-builder might do, and now someone else is building upon it." (1 Cor 3:10) 


•The Notre Dame Cheerleaders and Pom Squad will perform at 
:e~~~:~:;:;::r Wed. Feb.16th vs. Georgetown@ 8 PM 
courtesy ot Joyce Center Arena 


halftime!
.-Centennial Wireless! 
•One Lucky NO Student will •First 1000 fans will receive a 3-D 
~ 


win a $500 Notre Dame Basketball Poster courtesy of Notre Dame NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAl CREDIT UNION

Bookstore Certificate! Federal Credit Union! aaallljttaa 
Tuesday, February 15, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Fowler will be first black owner 
Businessman plans to buy Vikings in deal worth $625 million 
MINNI·:APOI.IS -Arizona husinPssman HPggin l'owlnr agrPPd to buy thn Minnnsota Vikings in a dnal that would makP him llw NFI.'s first black ownnr. 
FowiPr dPrlirwd to say how mul"h lw would pay for the tnarn. l'uhlislwd rnports and a r ivai hid dP r. Ti mlw rwolvns owrwr (;IPn Taylor, put tlw price at about $f.2S million. 
Owrwr HPd McCombs had the tnam on tlw blork sinen 2002. Taylor had oiTtwPd about $600 million. though sornn ol' that rnonny was rontingnnt on a new stadium lwing built. If the lnagun approvns thn deal, MrCombs will makn a hugo prolit -lw paid $246 million for tlw tnam in IIJ1JH. 
Asknd about hneoming the lnagtw's l'irst hlat~k owner, l'owlnr said Monday in a snem­ing t~ontradirtion that hn thought it was "a great thing" and not that big a thing. lin said ran~ didn't ligurn in negotiations with MrCombs. 
"liP did not discount tlw prien bnraust~ of that," Fowlnr said, laughing. 
Nl'l. owrwrs are to mont March 20-2:l in llawaii. League ruins rnquirn 24 of tlw 32 own­Prs to approvn a sale. Thn NFL also mandatns that a gnneral partrwr must put down :lO pnr­~~tmt of tlw cash portion of any franchisn purchasn. 
The lnague said Fowler met Saturday with commissioner 

Paul Tagliabun and will mont with tlw lnagun's linanee eom­mittee in Florida on March 9-10. The eommittne's n~p!1rt will thnn go to all the owners, who could vote during the llawaii meet­ings. 
Fowler's ownership group ­hn said he had throe limited partners -faces the same problnm that MeCombs did: the Metrodonw doesn't gnnerate as much rnvtmun as otlwr NFL sta­diums. 
Fowlnr brushed aside ques­tions about prossing for a new stadium and rnjneted any thought of moving the team. 
"We want to foe us today on just acquiring tho tnam," hn said at a news eonferoneo. 
Fowlnr's ownership group faces tho same problem that McCombs did: Tho Metrodome doesn't generate as much rev­enue as other NFL stadiums. 
Opposition to a publicly-fund­ed stadium has bnen strong. And with tho Vikings' Mntrodonw lease running through 2011, the Minnnsota Twins and University of Minnesota football team are thought to be higher prioritins with the Logislaturn. 
State Senate Majority Loader Dean .Johnson said Monday that Taylor, a former state legislator, would have had a better shot at money for a stadium. 
"Fowler would have to start in lirst gradn," Johnson said before the deal was announeed. 
Fowler is a former University of Wyoming football player. lie now owns Spiral Inc., a eompa­ny that supplies groeery stores with bags, eups, containers, labels and janitorial supplies. The Arizona Hepublic reportnd Saturday that Fowlnr's personal net worth is estimated at more than $400 million -far less than Taylor's $1.9 billion. 


Garcia released after one season 
Quarterback never really fit into the system in Cleveland 
Associated Press 
CLEVE LAN I> -()uartnr­baek .Jel'l' Carcia was released Monday by the Cleveland Browns, who cut tins with the three-time Pro 
Bowler af­
ter  one  
bad  sea­ 
son.  

Carcia signed a four-year, $25 million I'reo agent contract 

with the Garcia Browns last March aftnr spending l'ivn seasons with 
the San Francisco 49ers. But almost from thn time Garda arrived in Clnvnland, there wnre problems. 
In 10 starts for Clevnland, Gareia eom pleted 144 of 253 passes for 1,731 yards· with 10 touehdowns and nine interceptions. Even in the preseason, hn critleiznd former eoach Butch Davis' offense and nnvcr rnally lit into Davis' system. 
Garda's release -league rules prevent it from beeoming ofl'ieial until Feb. 22 -continues a housn cleaning in the aftermath of a 4-12 season by tho Browns, who last week hired Homno Crennnl, Nnw England's former defensive coordinator, as their eoach. 
On Sunday, Crnnnel named Maurien Cartlwn his offensive coordinator and the two didn't waste any time coming to an agree­ment on their l'irst person­nel move, dnciding that Garcia didn't l'it into their plans. 
Gareia is likely to hn onn of a numbnr of vetnran quarterbacks on the market this spring. 

Sonday March 20 •7:30 p.m. Morris Performing Arts Centtr South Bernd, Indiana 
Tickets Go On Sale a:_~ This Soturdoy ~_::] Fvbruory 19 
Gl 10:00 G.m.l 
Tkkllts awilabhr at Morris Box Officer Charger by phoner 574/235-9190 or 800/537-6415 on-liner at www.morriscernterr.org 
~?!.1!¥.0!' 
Two -I. i111 n M VI' 1\. u r t Warrwr. who sigrwd with thn Nnw York (;iants last spring to lwlp break in l·:li Manning, has asked to lw rnlnasnd aftnr losing his job to Manning aftnr ninl' ganws. 
Buffalo also could relnasl' I>rnw Bledsoe, a longtinw starl.nr with tlw Bills and Patriots. 
llavis, who rPsigrwd on Nov. :w with l'ivP ganws Inn in tho st~ason, brought in Carda thinking hn was tlw answer to thnir problnms at 
q u a r t n r b a e k . B u t C a 1'1~ i a nnvnr SIH~mnd to elic.k with tnamrnates and admittod to having a hard tirnn adjust­ing to Clnvela.nd's lift~style aftt~r spending his entire life in Northern California. 
During the nxhibition sna­son, tho 34-ynar-old com­plained that hn wasn't gPt­ting enough playing timo and that hn was having trouhln adjusting to rww tnammatos and a now oiTnnse. (;arcia madn things worse by optmly criticizing former Browns eoach Butch Davis and olTnnsive t~oordi­nator Torry Hobiskin, com­plaining that thny wnn~n't using him properly. 
At one point, Davis called Garcia "skittish" in tho pocknt, a eomrnnnt that angered the quartnrbaek and expanded the rift botwenn them. 
Aftnr rallying the Browns to beat Baltimore in Week 1, Garda threw thrnn intnr­eeptions the next wenk in a loss at Dallas and rneordnd a 0.0 quartnrbaek rating­only the l'il'th NFL quarter­back sinee 1970 to do so. 
Garcia's season was also hampnrnd by injuries. lin strained his shoulder on a saek against tlw Nnw York Jots on Nov. 21 and ton~ a krwn liganwnt on Doe. 12 in Buffalo. 
OfT-season distractions further strairll'd Carria's relationship with tho Browns and Clnvoland fans. {;areia had to ll~stify in a trial for his girlfriend. a Playboy l'laymatn, who was aeeustHI of karall~-kieking one of Gareia's ex-girl­friends during a fight at a downtown nightclub. 
With Careia gonn, tho Browns will liknly try to rn­s i g 11 f r 0 n a g n n I. 1\. t>ll y llolcomb or tradP for a vnt­eran quarterback. Tho loam also has tho No. :~ pick in April's Nl'l. draft, although i t is u n I i k e I y I. ht' y w o u I d want to start over with a rookin <)B. 
Mnanwhiln, llobiskin, who wont 1-4 as ClnvPiand's interim roach aftnr Davis quit, will stay with tho Browns as widn rtH~oivnrs roaeh. That was his posi­tion for th ron snasons bnf'orn ]wing namnd oiTnn­sivn coordinator last ynar. 
cn~nnol also added nanwd JolT Davidson his oiTonsivn linn coaeh will retain .lorry Hosburg as Clnveland's spe­cial teams eoach. Davidson has spnnt the past night seasons with New England. Hosburg has lwnn with tlw Browns sinee 2001. 


OUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSfRVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
Men's College Basketball:!: AP Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  lllinols(72)  25.:0  1,800  
2  Kansas  20-1  1,710  
3  Kentucky  19-2  1,592  
4  North Carolina  20·3  1,576  
5  Wake Forest  21·3  1,553  
6  Boston College  20-1  1,365  
7  Duke  18.-3  1,348  
8  Oklahoma State  19-3  1,329  
9  Syracuse  22-3  1,219  
10  Arizona  21-4  1,140  
11  Michigan State  17-4  1,008  
12  Louisville  21-4  965  
13  Gonzaga  19-4  889  
14  Utah  21-3  827  
15  Washington  20-4  811  
16  Alabama  19-4  737  
17  Pittsburgh  17-4  717  
18  Connecticut  15-6  602  
19  Pacific  20-2  360  
20  Wisconsin  16-6  342  
21  Oklahoma  17-6  263  
22  Maryland  15-7  231  
23  Charlotte  17-4  225  
24  Cincinnati  18·6  130  
25  Villanova  14-6  118  

Women's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team  record·  points  
1  LSU (45)  22-1  1,125  
2  Ohio State  24-2  1,062  
3  Duke  23-2  1,013  
4  Stanford  21-2  1,009  
5  NOTRE DAME  22-3  911  
6  Tennessee  19-4  863  
7  Baylor  19-3  860  
8  North Carolina  20·3  821  
9  Michigan State  22-3  802  
10  Rutgers  18·5  740  
11  Connecticut  16-G  652  
12  DePaul  21~3  567!11'&  
13  Texas  15·7  561 ·mr  
14  Minnesota  19·5  557  
15  Texas Tech  17-5  495  
16 17 18  Georgia Temple Kansas State  20·6ll!i• 20·3·· 17-5  363 299  
19  Iowa State  18•4:::.:··  262  
20 21  Maryland N.C. State  11-G 17-5  257 24D  
22  Vanderbilt  17-6  171  
23  Wise. Green Bay  2H  138  
24  Penn State  16•8  112  
25  Boston College  16·6  94  

MIAA Women's Basketball 
team MIAA 
Hope 14·1 Albion 13·1 Calvin 11·3 . Tri•State 6-9 Alma 5-9 Kalamazoo 5·9 Adrian 4•10 SAINT MARY'S 4~10 Olivet 2·12 
around the dial 

MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Indiana at Ohio State, 7 p.m., ESPN Connecticut at Providence, 7 p.m., ESPN Kentucky at South Carolina, 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Sacramento at Chicago, 8:30p.m., Comcast Denver at Atlanta, 8:30 p.m., Altitude 
NHL 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -With no miracle save in sight and a weekend deadline long gone, the NHL made plans for a news conference Tuesday to cancel what little remained of a season already decimated by a lockout. 
A public relations executive, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press that planning was under way Monday for NHL commissioner Gary Bettman to make the announcement at a news confer-· ence in New York. 
The Canadian Press, citing an unidentified source, said Bettman will cancel the season at the news conference. 
The NHL would become the first major professional league in North America to cancel an entire season 
IN BRIEF 
Santana af!_rees to contract 
after recoro season 
MINNEAPOLIS -AL Cy Young Award winner Johan Santana and the Minnesota Twins agreed Monday to a four-year contract. 
The 25-year-old left-bander, who had been scheduled for a salary arbi­tration hearing Tuesday, led the league with a 2.61 ERA and 265 strikeouts last season. He became the first Venezuelan to win the Cy Young and the first unanimous winner in the AL since Pedro Martinez in 2000. 
He set a Twins record by winning 13 consecutive games and didn't lose in 15 starts after the All-Star break, going 13-0 with a 1.21 ERA to help Minnesota win its third straight AL Central division title. 
Santana, who would have been eli­gible for free agency after the 2006 season, had asked for a raise from $1.6 million to $6.8 million and had been offered $5 million by the Twins. 

because of a labor dispute. This would mark the first time the Stanley Cup was not awarded since a flu epi­demic canceled the finals in 1919. 
Asked about The Canadian Press report, NHL spokesman Frank Brown said the league had no immediate comment. 
After vowing not to reach out to each other after two days of talks broke off Thursday, the sides met Sunday at the request of a high-rank­ing federal mediator. Neither Bettman nor players' association executive director Bob Goodenow attended. 
But that round of talks in Washington was also unsuccessful, with both sides saying that no progress was made. 
Neither side has been willing to budge on the salary-cap issue -the NHL has said it is necessary in any 
Suspended Horton pleads
guilty to domestic violence 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Michigan point guard Daniel Horton pleaded guilty Monday to a charge of domestic violence. 
Horton, who has been one of Michigan's best players the past three seasons and was named the MVP of last season's NIT, is accused of grab­bing his girlfriend by the neck and choking her on Dec. 10. 
"We got into a heated argument, and I pushed her," Horton told District Judge Ann Mattson. 
Horton, who is free on bond, could face up to 93 days in jail and a $500 fine on the misdemeanor charge when he is sentenced March 9. But his attorney, Gerald Evelyn, said he expects his client to be sentenced to probation and counseling. 
Michigan coach Tommy Amaker suspended Horton on Jan. 25 after the junior from Cedar Hill, Texas, was new deal, and the players' associa­tion has rejected it as a solution. 
NIIL chief legal officer Bill Daly was joined Sunday at the five-hour meeting by outside counsel Bob Batterman, with players' association senior director Ted Saskin and out­side counsel John McCambridge on the other side. 
The sides were assisted by media­tors twice before, as recently as a Feb. 2 negotiating session in Newark, 
N.J. Sunday's meeting was requested by Scot B. Beckenbaugh, the acting director of the U.S. Federal Mediation & Conciliation Service. 
Neither side thought mediation would help end the stalemate that has lasted five months. 
The lockout reached its 152nd day Monday. a day after the NHL was to hold its All-Star game in Atlanta. 
charged. Horton, who has missed six games, is averaging 12.4 points per @ple this season. Weber, 'best known bowler 
worldwide,' dies at 75 
ST. LOUIS -Dick Weber, one of bowling's first national stars and a three-time bowler of the year, died. He was 75. 
Weber died Sunday night in his sleep at his home in the St. Louis area, said Steve James, retired executive director of the American Bowling Congress Hall of Fame. A cause of death was not immediately known. 
Weber had just returned from the opening of the congress' champi­onships in Baton Rouge, La. 
In an e-mail to the Bowlers Journal, Weber's wife, Juanita, said Weber began having breathing problems Sunday night. 
"He was a lot bigger than the tour," James said Monday. "He was probably the bestknown bowler worldwide." 
Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
CLUB SPORTS 
Women's ice hockey tops Michigan State 
Figure skating takes fourth place in Bowling Green Invitational Saturday and Sunday 
Special to the Observer 
Last Saturday the women's ice hockoy team lost a hard-fought battiP against Miehigan State 7-5. The Irish dominatPd the Spartans nvnrywhoro but tho scoreboard, outshooting the Spartans 39-10. Mogan Mattia lnd the team with 
two  goals,  followed  by  Tori  
Blainny,  Jacky  Kohler  and  
Brittany Ilartfi)f(l.  

llownv11r, Sunday was a difl'er­nnt story as thn Irish, playing thnir only gamn of tho s1mson at tho .Joyce Cnntnr, came out strong and scored the game's first goal on a lwads up play in front of' the not by Kara Brnnnan. llownvnr, Mirhigan Stato struck back in the third pPriod to tie it up at 1-1. But with lnss than two minutes left in tho gamo, Tori Blainey rockoted homo a goal to put the Irish alwad for good. Irish coaches Davo Olson and Justin O'Neill wore both plnm;od. 
"Tho girls rnally came togethnr m; a toam, worknd hard and most importantly, didn't give up, even al't11r tho Spartans rallied back," tho coaches said. The Irish will elosn thnir snason against the Univorsity of' Michigan in Ann Arbor next weekend. 
Equestrian 
The ND/SMC equestrian elub turned in a pair of' fino showings 
· this weekend at two tightly con­testnd IIISA shows. Saturday, tho Irish playnd host at Marion, Ind. and daimnd high point team hon­ors with 39 points, behind the high point rider performance of Katie Baron. Indiana was second with 2R points, lhllownd dosely by Purdue. On Sunday, the Irish took reserve high point honors, as they were narrowly edged at Purdue by tho host Boilermakers, 31-30. Katie Baron sharnd first in open fences with Kelsey Ostberg, and garnered another first in open flats. Claire Frnnman placed sec­ond in open flats, with Molly Kopacz sixth. In intermediate f(mees, Andrna Oliverio's third and Molly Sehmiege's fourth were top Irish finishes. Allie Montana captured first place in intermediate llaL<>. while teammates Oliverio, Marina Cardona and Sehmiege finished seeond, fifth and sixth respeetivn­ly. Mary l>organt and Hayden Piseal gave the Irish a first-sec­ond finish in novice fences. 
The Irish dominated the novice f'lat with Kristen LaSota and Brittany Gragg eaeh taking first in their novice flat classes. Catherine Linn placed second, Marta Aseadi and Megan Murphy both finished third, with Piscal in fourth and Katie Ryan in firth completing the scoring in the event. 
The Irish completed the show with strong elli>rts in two events. Heather LaDue's second, Katy Booth's third, Laura I lain's fourth and Caitlin Mahan's sixth domi­nated the advanced walk/trot/canter. In walk/trot, Nicole Gonsalves took third. 
In Sunday's action at Purdue, Claire Freeman garnered first in open fences, with Katie Baron third. Opnn flaL<> was a particular­ly strong event for thn Irish, with Kelsey Ostbnrg first, Molly Kopacz second, Freeman third, Liz Bell fourth, Baron fifth and Julia Burke sixth. 
Allin Montana daimed her see­om\ first place of the weekend in open flats, followed by Chelsea Brown and Marina Cardona both in third, Caitlin Landuyt fourth and Ana Richter sixth. Burke and Montana each finished sixth in their intermediate fences da.ss. 

In novice events, Megan Murphy earned fourth and Mary Dorgant fifth in fences, while Kristen LaSota's first place lod an assault in flat competition. Dorgant and Catherine I .inn were dose behind in second and third, with Piscal, Ascadi and Murphy all tying for fifth. 
Nicole Gonsalves elaimed the last first place for the Irish, in walk/trot, while teammate Katy Booth finished third in walk/trot/canter. 
Figure skating 

Notre Dame's figure 'skating dub finished fourth in the Bowling Green Invitational this weekend. The Irish were in third until the end of the perli>rmance, when they suffered their only fall. The top two finishers, Michigan State and Miami (Ohio), are ranked at the top of the national standings. Bowling Green edged the Irish for third place. 
Gymnastics 

Zach Gagnon's high bar routine earned first place at the Purdue Golden Grips Invitational this weekend. Gagnon placed sixth in all-around competition to lead the men to a fourth-place showing behind Illinois, Purdue and Triton. Brian Dunn and Paul Kane led a strong supporting men's east. 
A shorthandnd women's squad was unable to turn in a completn team score for tho event, but showed improvmnent over last week's performance at Miami. Wendy Jo Svetanol'f led the women with a second placn finish on the balance beam. Mary Blaznwicz, Krissy .Jackson, Susan Jennings and Cndlia Torros also turnnd in solid pnrformancns for the Irish. 
Skiing 
The Notre Dame's women's and men's squads finishnd sixth and fourth this weekend in MCSA competition. In womnn's slalom, Daniello Clements turnnd in the best performance for the Irish with an eight pla1:e finish. Casey Dunne placed 30th, Lauren Dacey 43rd, Maria l>estino 38th and Mary Kate Sweeney 48th. The men were led by 1:aptain .Joe Payne's 12th place finish. Brothers Pat and Bill Leimkuehler finished 32m! and 37th, sandwkhing Brian llndges in 34th. Steve Fuetz completed the seoring, finishing 42nd. 
SECOND CITY IS COMING TO NOTRE DAME 
PAST GUESTS INCLUDE BILL MURRAY,
friday, february 18th 

TIM MEADOWS, TINA FEY, CHRIS FARLEY...
two shows: 6:30 & 9:30pm 

laugh the night away! 
th·ng to do 
k·ng tor some ' 
\OO \ . W'2 
tridaY night of JP . 

your parents\ br\ng 
bring You ~ 
. r triends! 

tickets on sale now at LaFortune Box Office-$5 STUDENT/$10 ADULTS REMAINING TICKETS WILL BE SOLD AT THE DOOR 
buy your second city tickets 

before they s e 11 0 ut! ~~~~ungdh:~uy~u by the student union boord 

Write for 11-4543 


'· 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
junior year. She chose to com­pete with the Under-18 team from the Chicago Magie boys club, rated the nation's top youth program. Bock also earned the 2003 Golden Boot Award after helping Team Illinois win the 2003 ODP national title. This team includ­ed Irish players Jen Buczkowski, Kim Lorenzen and Jill Krivaeek. 
Coach Randy Waldrum had only words of praise for the recruit. 
"We had her tagged as one of the top players. She was the one that we felt like 
"[Inglis] is going to be one ofthose players with a lot ofversatility. " 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 

was the player we "We had [Bock] physically ready really wanted to to play where she
tagged as one of 

get after," is right now. She
the top players. " 

Waldrum said. has a tromendous "She sees the field upside and hasn't so well. and she is Randy Waldrum even begun to good at making pnak."
Irish coach 

the game happen. She can lind other players. She can score goals. She is delinitoly one of the better players in the country coming out this year." 
In addition to Bock. the class includes defender Carrie Dew, midlielder/defender Kerry Inglis and midficlder Hebecca Mendoza. 
Dew joins the Irish after help­ing La Costa Canyon lligh School win a pair of CIF (California Interscholastic Fednrationl state titles. Current Irish freshman Ashley Jones was co-captain with Dew on the 2004 national championship team. She is also a three-time NSCAA All-American ('02-'04) who has played with the U.S. Under-16, Under-17 and Under­19 teams. ller club team, the San Diego Surf, is ranked as the nation's top women's club pro­gram according to Soccer Ameriea. Dew is currently the team's captain and has helped them win three state titles. 
"We really had to spend time finding backs Iwith the loss of Tancredi and Gunnarsdottirl and the more we saw her play, we knew she was the answer," Waldrum said. "She is dynamite in the air and she is going to be one that we are counting on to step in and play." 
Inglis has also been receiving attention as she was recently chosen as a finalist for Indiana player-of-the-year award. lngli~ joins the team with the experi­ence of playing for the ODP Region II team, the Fort Wayne Citadel club and the Nelson 
Snider High School team where she holds a school record with 215 career points (84 goals, 4 7 assists). She also is rated b y StudentSports.com as the nation's sev­enth best defender and was also on its first team fall All-
America team for 2004. "She is going to be one of 
those players with a lot of ver­satility," Waldrum said. "She is a great athlete and 
Mendoza, mean­while, joins the Irish after making her debut with t!Hl Mexican National Team. One of her teammates on national team was former Irish defender 
Monica Gonzales, captain of Mexico's 2004 Olympic quarter­finalist team. She also plays for the Dallas Sting, one of the nation's top club programs. She 
she can do a lot with it. She brings a different level to us." 
Waldrum anticipates this year's recruiting class to help and achieve the same level of success the Irish found this past year. 
"They are all playing on teams that have won rrhampi­onships so they are all coming from successful backgrounds and are highly competitive kids," he said. "You always want your veterans challenged everyday and these four are really going to push our cham­pionship team to keep compet­ing. 
"What helped us win the championship was our depth and they've just added to it. So we've got a good shot at com­peting Ifor another national title! next season." 
Notes 
+ Also joining the Irish will be two prep-All Americans from the 2004 freshman class who did not play last season, for­wards Kerri Hanks and Susan Pinnick. Hanks opted to com­pete with the Under-19 World Championship and Pinnick is returning from a season-ending injury suJTered in a summer ear accident. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 


totaled 77 goals and 58 assists in her first three seasons at Garland High School. 
"Her ability on the ball is extremely high," Waldrum said. "She is going to be a lot of fun to watch because 


Eighth Annual  
Thomas Aquinas Symposium  
"Edith Stein Encounters Thotnas Aquinas"  
Students Especial(y Welcome  
Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College  
Saturday, February 19, 2005  
2:30p.m.  "Edith Stein: Contemplative Scholar" Constance FitzGerald, OCD, Baltimore Carmel  
3:30p.m.  Refreshments  
4:00p.m.  "Edith Stein Encounters Thomas Aquinas" Sarah R. Borden, Wheaton College  

Sponsored by the Joyce McMahon Hank Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology With the support ofthe Center for Spirituality and the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership 
Free and open to the public 
Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Notre Dame signee Brittany Bock is the world's top under­17 soccer player according to womensworldfootball.com. 
Sizzle in:: 
Bellini Tuesdays 
:t:-_: ~.,) 

Stz;,fefl.e (Sizzlelini~') ­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented . with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;;,-Iefie (Bellini)­
A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­Visit us EVERYTuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 

Tuesday, February 15, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Weis 
continued from page 24 
rings stuck out on his right hand that held u cup of cofl'ee. "Usually the change is made because expectations wnren 't mot. So, when the (players] urn whining to the administration well, 'You let the head coach go,' I said 'Well, fellas, if you weren't 6-6 they wouldn't have let the head eoach go.'" 
In his first interactions with the Notre Damn campus, Wnis nn tertairwd the crowd with a combination of his humor and a no-nonsensn attitude that he lirst introduced when he was hired Dee. 12. 
"It's easy as the student body to say 'This is what we're this year -the Miami Dolphins were interested, as was an undiselosed team who called the night he flew into South Bend to accept the Notre Dame job to tell him they were interested in hiring him. 
But Weis, a 1978 Notre Dame graduate, said he is where he wants to be. 
"I intend to be here a long time," he said. "''m not three and out. I'm not taking a job in the NFL, because 1 could have this year, but I wanted to be here ... [I'm] here with only one goal in mind -leave this cam­pus on my own terms about a decade from now with everyone saying, 'God, I'm glad we hired that guy"' 
Weis also refused to make excuses for losing. When he 
talked about next 
year's schedule, 

looking for,' but  "We are always going  one that has the  
here's  what  I  to be prepared. ,  Irish opening up  
can  tell  you,"  with four of their  
Wnis said. ''I've rwver been in a  Charlie Wels  first five games on the road,  
program that's  Irish head coach  including  

lost. I'm 48 years old. I've never been in a program that's lost. Everywhere I've been, we've won. It hasn't been because of me, but I've been part of the reason we've won." 
Wnis briefly talked about his past coaching experiences for tho Supnr Bowl champion New England Patriots. Weis also said hn only really wanted two other jobs besides the one at Notre Dame -tho head coaching job of tho Nnw York Giants, for which he intnrviewnd last year and didn't get, and the head coaehing job at South Carolina, where he coaehnd previously. 
"There were only a couple jobs in this eountry that 1 really covntod," he said. "(When I did­n't gnt the Giants head coaching job( .. that .. kind of crushed me at the time. 
Weis also said he had an opportunity to takn an NFL job 
Pittsburgh, 
Michigan, Washin!,rton and Purdue, he said it was no reason not to win. 
"Everyone says you start off with four of five on the road, Aw," he said sarcastically. "You don't make a whole lot of excus­es. There's too many excuses ­excus.es about the coaching change, recruiting, coaching itself, classes." 
On the heels of the Feb. 2 signing day, Weis also touched on recruiting. Two big-name recruits, defensive end Lawrence Wilson and wide receiver David Nelson chose Ohio State and Florida, respec­tively, over the Irish. Weis said the athletes offered scholarships by Notre Dame who decided to go to other schools are the ones missing out. 
"We didn't lose them," Weis said. "They didn't want to come here, and that's their loss as far 

CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Presents 
Vatican D: 
as I'm concerned." 
Weis also referred to a com­ment he made about Southern California, which he said is a better team than Notre Dame at this point. At halftime of the Notre Dame men's basketball game against Villanova Jan. 8, Weis told the crowd he hoped the Trojans, who have beaten the Irish by 31 points in each of the past three years, were unde­feated when they come to Notre Dame Oct. 15. 
"(USC head coach] Pete Carroll is a friend of mine, but he's never done very well against me," Weis said. "Hight now USC is a better team than us. You watch them play and you watch us play. Now if you were gonna pick one group of gusy to play for you on Saturday, which group would you be picking right now. You'd be picking them, and that's the problem." 
As far as on-the-field perform­ance, Weis reiterated he would bring the students a prepared football team each week, includ­ing improvement in different areas, especially special teams. 
"I thought special teams here stunk," he said. "So all the front-line players, they're all playing special teams. 
"Here's what you're gonna get. We are always going to be prepared. Each week will be its own separate entity." 
After answering six questions, including one about former Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown, whom Weis said does not have a current role in the football office, and about which Super Bowl ring he will wear on Saturdays, (he will wear his wedding ring), Weis thanked the students for coming out so early. 
And with that, Weis departed to another standing ovation for a 7 a.m. staff meeting. 
llis first full day had begun. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Historical Relevance for 21st Century Believers 
Lecture presented by: Fr. Joseph Komonchak, 
The John C. and Gertrude P. Hubbard Professor ofReli~ious Studies and Director of the Historical and Systernatlc Theology Division 
Catholic University ofAmerica 
Thursday, February 17,2005 7:30 p.m. Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College Campus 
Free and Open to the public 

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish overco111e slow-start, show promise 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Sports Writer 

When Notre Dame opened the GRU Classic tournament this weekend with back-to­hack losses on Friday, most opponents counted them out. But coach Deanna Gumpf and her team knew the Irish still had something to prove. 
"It was all about attitude, and I think this team proved it in the final three games," Gumpf said. "It's just a matter of making a mental decision, deciding whether to play their game or someone else's. When this team sets a tone, they ean beat anybody." 
Coming back on Saturday with an aura of confidence and determination, Notre Dame battled to win games against Coastal Carolina and No. 21 South Florida, moving the Irish into Sunday's title game. With the tournament on the line, the Irish held on in dramatic fash­ion to take down undefeated and No. 19 Florida 4-2. 
"We really started down ­losing the frrst game wasn't too bad, but we came into the sec­ond game with no emotion," Gumpf said. "We were going through the motions, and this is the type of team that has to play with energy. This team has a plan, and they need to follow that plan, to be that plan, every day. And that's what they decided to do on Saturday and Sunday." 
Given their play in the first day's games, and the caliber of opponents they were expected to face, Notre Dame was given an outside shot at best to win the tournament. But by the end of the weekend, the Irish had converted their doubters with three games of confident, aggressive play. 
"It's a confidence, it's what you bring to the game," Gumpf said. "When they bring that something extra, that some­thing special, they can be a good team. They expected to come back, and that's the best part." 
Notre Dame's comeback per­formance was keyed by strong pitching performances from junior Heather Booth and sen­ior Stephanie Stenglein. Steinglein threw a complete game three-hitter and struck out 10 while giving up only one narned run in the victory over No. 21 South Florida, and Booth scattered five hits with eight strikeouts against No. 19 Florida to clinch the title for the Irish. After starting shaky on Friday with both hurlers losing, the pitching, like the rest of the team, rnsponded. 
"Heather and Stephanie never pitched a bad game; thny just didn't complete their first games," Gumpf said. "We made mistakes in the first game, but we played them tough. The second game, though, we came with nothing, and that was the turning point, the eye-opener. The team knows they don't want to be in that position again -they know they're a better tnarn, and they want to prove it." 
While the pitchers played an important role, the resurgence in the second half of thn tour­nament was undoubtedly a t(~am effort. 
"Our two pitchers kept the team in the ball game and snt the tone, but the whole team was just diffnrent," Gumpf said. "lt wasn't just one player; thn whole team came out with an attitude, ready to fight. Everyone contributed. Each one gave the team a little bit more, and to win in the future, each girl is going to have to continue to give a little bit more." 
Perhaps more importantly than the tournament victory, the win gives the Irish much­needed energy heading into a difficult upcoming schedule. 
"I think we couldn't carry better momentum than what we have right now," Gumpf' said. 
No matter who the Irish face in the future, their resilience in this weekend's tournament has them pointed in thn right direc­tion for 2005. 
"This team is on the right track," Gumpf said. "I liked the way we finished the first tour­nament, and we hope to keep playing like this." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffyl@nd.edu 
Are you creative? 
Do you have a short story, poem, drawing or photo? Submit your work to the Spring issue of 
The Juggler 
NO's student literary, art and design magazine. 
Please bring artwork to Mary Foster in 206 Riley by March 28. Supply slides for pieces larger than 11 x17 or 3-0 work. 
Written work deadline is March 21. Send via e-mail to juggler@nd.edu or dropped off in the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall. No entries of more than 2,500 words, please. 
All submissions should include title, author/artist, and e-mail. 
Look for the Winter Juggler later this month! 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
Eagles 
continued from page 24 
home. The team is 9-1 at the visi­tor's arena and 13-2 inside the Joyce Center. 
"I really think it is maturity. Our upperclassmen have just done a heck of a job all year long of letting the underclassmen know that this is how it's supposed to go," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "They've set the tone in every game and the underclassmen have just followed their lead. I'm really proud of our leadership this year." 
Notre Dame is on a season-high nine-game winning streak, which began with an 86-69 victory against Purdue Jan. 16. The Irish, now 22­3 and 10-2 in the Big East, hold a half-game advantage on first place in the Big East standings over Connecticut and Rutgers, who are both 9-2. 

McGraw has regularly used an eight-player rotation and usually starts Megan Duffy, Jacqueline Batteast, Teresa Borton, Breona Gray and either Crystal Erwin or Courtney LaVere. Freshmen Charel Allen and Tuylah Gaines come off the bench for significant minutes as well. 
But the Irish start and end with Batteast. The All-American picked up her fourth Big East player of the week award this season for averag­ing 21.5 points, nine rebounds and 
4.5 assists in Notre Dame's wins against Providence and Georgetown last week. She had 23 points and 10 rebounds against the Friars and followed that performance with 20 points and eight boards against the Hoyas. 
Against Georgetown, Batteast also passed Alicia Ratay for fourth on the all-time scoring list. Following the game, she said the team is much more confident this season than a year ago, especially on the road. 
"I think we're not as intimidated as we were last year," she said. "We're just coming in and treating each trip more business-like and just trying to go take care of busi­ness and do what we practiced ­trying to rebound more, trying to take care of the ball." 
Notre Dame faces three road tests, including the Boston College and Rutgers games, in its next four matchups. The Irish have next week off before facing West Virginia in the home finale Feb. 26 and Seton Hall in New Jersey March 1. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


Allen 
continued from page 24 
Allen hasn't just earned playing time -she's made the most of it. Heading into Tuesday's matchup against Boston College, the fresh­man has played in all 25 games and averages 24.7 minutes per contest. She posts 8.1 points and 4.5 rebounds per game, good for fourth and third on the team, respectively. After averaging 12.5 points and four rebounds in two Notre Dame victories the week of Feb. 2, she received Big East Freshman of the Week honors -the first Irish player to accomplish such a feat since Courtney LaVere did during the 2002-03 season. 

Allen's production does­n't stop at points and rebounds, either. Despite having a slim build, she frequently bumps her way around the paint for a loose ball or ends up on the floor after diving for a steal. 
"I just try to get back up," she said. ''I'm little, and I know I'm going to get hit, but I just try to brush it 0 ff. " 
Allen's thin frame has 
even earned her a nick­name-"chicken." 
"Crystal [Erwin] gave me that nickname. She says my legs are really little. At first I didn't like it, and I don't like it still," Allen said. "Coach doesn't like it either. I'm going to try and get them back to saying 'Charel."' 
After such an impressive start to her Notre Dame career, Allen has already drawn comparisons to another Irish great ­teammate and all­American, Jacqueline Batteast. Batteast agrees with the resemblance. 
"She reminds me of me in a way," Batteast said. "I was a skinny little kid, too. People underestimate her and she comes in and she shocks a lot of people. I don't think she scored 3,000 points in high school by accident." 
Allen said she's made the most of playing beside Notre Dame's fourth all­time leading scorer. 
"Jackie -just look at her. You could learn a whole bunch from her by just watching her," Allen said. "At practice she's working hard all the time. When you're around her, you pick up little things she does." 
In three years, a new freshman may be saying the same kind of compli­ments -only then, the words could be about Allen. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Panel Discussion 

V-Dav and 1111 Vagina •tJntJ/tJguesat Notre Dame: 
Contextualizing the Controversv 
with 

Eve Ensler 
Obie-Award Winning Author of The Vagina Monologues Creator, Artistic Director of the V-Day movement to stop violence against women 
with Notre Dame professors:  
Gail Iederman  Glenn Hendler  Jessica Chalmers  
Associate Professor  Associate Professor  Assistant Professor  
History  English  FTT  

TOMORROW-Wednesdav, Februarv 16 at 3:00pm 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center -Leighton Concert Hall Caii1-ZBOO tor tickets or get them at the door -the event is FREE, but tickets are necessarv. 
Event sponsored by the Department of FIT, English and the Program in Gender Studies. 
Tuesday, February 15, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
FBI. WE HAVE REASON TO BELIEVE THAT YOU'RE THE SOURCE OF ALL INTERNET SPAM.  I'M THE DIRECTOR OF THE FBI, AND YOU'RE BOTH FIRED.  I'D HEARD THAT HE LIKES TO DRESS UP AS OTHER MAMMALS.  
CREEPY.  
~  
~--------~--_.~~~~~~~_.~~~~~----------~  
PEANUTS  CHARLES SCHULZ  

AND I GOT ONE FROM DENA, AND 
FROM STEFFI, AND FROM CHELSEA,AND LINDSEY, AND EMILY 
AND MELISSA, AND ... 

211~10~ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GEDUN 
I rJ I I 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DYNOW 
j
I I r ()
tNOPETI WHAT THE CHIL­DREN DID WHEN MOM BROUGHT HOME COOKIES.
) () 

www.jumble.com 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
J I I J I 
Answer: rI I JTHEM .. rI I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: ALIVE SAVOR BLITHE KNIGHT
Yesterday's Answer: Many will do this on Valentine's Day­
TAKE IT TO "HEART" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Lee's uniform color

1 Philosopher William of 34 Shrewd 
6 Kid around with 35 Kosher 
1 0 Helgenberger of 36 Amount left "CSI" after expenses 
14 "Naughty you!" 37 Feted with sherry, say
15 Wheel shaft 38 Woman
16 Radio "good associated withbuddy" 
seven other 17 All smiles answers in this 18 Quilters' parties 
puzzle 

41 Loathe boy 43 "You've got 20 Crops up 
19 "Elephant Boy" 
mail" co. 44 Houlihan22 Hatchling's portrayer

home 48 Way up or down
24 Actor Herbert of "Pink Panther" 49 B'way hit signs films 
so Mambo king 25 One way to Puente stand 
51 Kodak inventor 26 Purge 
53 "What's up, 28 Dense fog ?" 
30 Cheese in a ball 55 Bro. or sis. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE A v E AIw0 A sI'D G E
W A R E A N I T A M 0 L T A L U M R E F I T S U E T C U P 0 F C!liiE E. G N U  
S E T T E R F R E S H­ 
IIIIIIE D I T S SIL I N G S REFS.MOOT~XULT E A R •f-Mi A C H E R. T 0 A PRIMO DIAL.ESPY S N E A KIS.E T S IIIlO R Y E R M A T M A N  
APEIANGEJUICE H U G S A C 0 R N A N T E E R G 0 P E T I T R E E D M E S S E D E N S Y 0 D A  

WILLSHORTZ 
56 Utmost 57 Chop_ 59 Observant ones 61 Clump of hair 63 Good buy 65 _ home (out) 66 In alignment 67 Poet Pound 68 Poetry Muse 69 Joad family's 
home state: Abbr. 70 Part of a Fifth Ave. address 71 A bit stupid 
DOWN 1 Circular in form 2 Acting out of a 
phrase 3 London or 
Lisbon 4 Sound boosters 5 Mob figure 
Lansky 29 Least crazy 
6 Sharp left or 31 Bad, as a tennis 

right 
shot 7 Yoked team 
33 Doing battle8 Ready to turn in 58 Ball material
37 W.W. I president author 60 Corrida charger 
9 "Steppenwolf' 46 Say over 
39 Benchmarks 47 "War and10 TV hosts, briefly Peace" author 62 Tetley product40 Where the boyz11 Mother-of-pearl are 48 Directed at 64 Nonprofessional
source 
12 Hoopster's grab For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a
13 In a cranky credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
mood Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday21 Milano Mr. 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 23 Not spoken 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
27 Prepared to past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). shoot in a Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young shootout solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Billy Idol. Bo Jackson, Ben Stiller. Clay Aiken 
Happy Birthday: You haven't made the best choices in the past, hut you can tum things around. You have a sense of what you should he doing, so have a little faith and confidence in yourself. You have it in you to make things work this year. Your numbers arc I 0, 27, 33, 36, 41. 46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You will probably make an impulsive move if you aren't in control of your emotions. Think hcforc you act. Things arc not as had as they seem. ** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20):"Plan a lunch date with someone wllo has infonnation you need. What you learn will change the course of your life. An opportunity to visit or travel must he taken. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Something to do with services fi1r the home or a product that you can offer will lead to a financial gain. Consider starting your own business or forming a partnership. *** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Stop yourself before you make a blunder. You arc not being rational about personal issues, which can lead to a mistake that will haunt you in the future. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Secret love affairs will he tempting. Consider the consequences and you will spare yourself from ending this year on a low note. Get hack to basics. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You have everything to he proud of and to look forward to. Self-criticism is the enemy, so accept praise ami trust in your efforts. 
**** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The only·thing that is important today is what you do and if you feel good about it. Let your uniqueness shine through and work for you.** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stand up, he counted and praise will he yours. Your love life should be picking up and everything you want to do should be scheduled in. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will feel like a weight has hcen lifted off your shoulders if you have made some financial adjustments. The stress has taken its toll, so be good to yourself for a change. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't trust someone who is trying to sell you something. Usc your own discretion. Put business aside and spend time with your lover. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This is not the time to play hooky. You will miss a perfect chance to get ahead if you arc sleeping on the job or showing little interest. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make a difTcrcncc to children, lovers and friends today. Plan something special for each and every person who counts in your life.***** 
Birthday Baby: You have the look that will get you what you want. You are a creative thinker with a zest for life and storytelling. You can he entertaining hut very sensitive and willing to listen. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at tlstroadvice.cmn and eugenialast.com. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ________________________ City ____________ State _____ Zip______ 
.. .. l • ~ .. ,._ • 10 ..... "" & .. "' l ....... & • .. e .. lo & .. • ..... .-. • ... • "' 4 • 1. .. .. ~ t. ....... • o. -IL lilt .o • .. 10. lo. • & .0. " "'" ~ of lt. • 0 Jo 0.' .. • " l • • A ~. o • • • • " • '" ..... • ' • " -1. " ~ ~ .. _. • " .. II-,._ ' ' 'lo • 
... 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Tuesday, February 15, 2005 
page 24 
FooTBALL 

Good morning, coach Weis 

No. 5 Irish try to maintain conference lead against No. 19 Boston College 
By JOE HETTLER Sporrs Wrirer 
The first time Notre Dame and Boston College matched up ­two weeks ago in a game the Irish won 64-57 in South Bend -the Eagles lost leading scorer and 3-point shooter Jessalyn Deveny to a ruptured Achilles tendon early in the first half. 
Boston College hasn't been the same since. 
After Deveny went down. the Eagles dropped their next three games before beating Syracuse 75-50 Feb. 12. In the victory, Boston College had four players score in double figures, including forward Brooke Queenan, who had 16 points. Queenan has stepped into a start­ing role for the injured Deveny, and the junior is averaging more than 11 points per contest. 
Meanwhile, the Irish begin a tough two-game road stretch against the Eagles and Rutgers on Saturday. Unlike last season when Notre Dame struggled away from the Joyce Center, going just 5-8, the 2004­05 Irish have posted a better road mark than 
see EAGLES/page 22 
New Irish football coach speaks to students at 6 a.m. 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
To start his first full day on the job, new Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis received a standing ovation, seven months before even stepping on the football field. 
Weis met with Notre Dame students at 6 a.m. Monday in the Joyce Center to talk about his aspirations for the football program. 
"Everything for me is 

Notre Dame," Weis, who comes to Notre Dame full­time after winning the Super Bowl Feb. 6 as the offensive coordinator for the New England Patriots, told the group of students gath­ered in the Joyce Center. "Now I'm here, and all my energies are here." 
Weis briefly touched on the coaching change, saying the only reason former coach and current Washington head coach Tyrone Willingham was fired was because he didn't win. 
"Anytime there's a change, there's a change for a reason," Weis said as one of his gaudy Super Bowl 
see WEIS/page 21 
< Top, new Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis speaks to about 200 NQtre Dame students. At left, Weis talks to students Monday morning about his plans for football.
•

PHOTOS BY TIM SULLIVAN 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Flying into the Eagles' nest 
Freshman guard Allen has exceeded expectations in her first yea_r for NO 


By JOE HETTLER Sporrs Wrirer 
Muffet McGraw had con­cerns about freshman guard Charel Allen han­dling the pressure of big­time college basketball earlier this season. 
It hasn't taken Allen long 
to turn her coach'!'\ con­
cerns into confidence. 
''I'm not going to worry about her anymore," McGraw said. "I was wor­ried about her going to Connecticut and playing in front of that huge crowd. I was worried about her in RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer big games and all that. But Charel Allen drives against Rutgers Jan. 23. The now I haven't had any 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Team inks four top recruits 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Wrirer 
After winning the national title just two months ago, the Irish have announced four outstand­ing national letter-of-intent signees. 
These play­ers will join an experi­enced and tal­ented team, as the Irish lose only starting cen­traI backs 
'--__..._ 
___..L.___j 
Melissa Tan-Bock credi and Gudrun Gunnarsdottir to gradu­ation. 
This recruiting class is com­prised of three national-team players, inducting midfielder Brittany Bock, who was recently rated by womensworldfootball.com as the world's top female soccer player for her age group. 
Bock is currently completing her senior season at Neuqua Valley High School after not playing high school soccer her 
see RECRUITS/page 20 
Allen, who was Pennsylvania's player of the year twice during high school and scored more than 3,000 points during her career, has been a spark for No. 5 Notre Dame all season off the bench. She routinely ignites the Joyce Center crowd with her athleticism and all-out play and has been a crucial component of the 22-3 Irish. 
"I figured [coming into the season] I could step up and try to work hard for a position," Allen said. "I thought, 'go out and do your best and you might get playing time."' 

Irish face Boston College tonight on the road. worries." see ALLENIpage 22 

NO SOFTBALl 
CLUB SPORTS 
MlB
MEN'S TRACK 

NCAA BASKETBAlL 
NBA
..... 
Co) 
Windsor Team 

No. 18 Pitt 68, 
Trail Blazers 80,
Women's ice hockey
z Notre Dame started 
Challenge 

No. 8 Syracuse 64
Jose Canseco's book 
Bobcats 77 
defeats Michigan State 
its season off on the 
Led by sprinters 
about steroid use in
::5 
in rematch, figure skat-
right foot this weekend, 
Dwight Ellick and 

The Panthers knocked 
major league baseball, 
76ers 106S 
ing takes fourth place in 
= 
taking the GRC Classic. 
Terrail Lambert, the 
among other things, 

off the Orange at the 
Knicks 10
c:a:: 
Invitational. 
Irish took fourth place. 

Carrier Dome in Big
sold well on its opening 

East play.
day.
!; 
page 21 
page 19 
page 16 
page 16 

page 15 
page 14 









