

THE 



Athletes balance sports, studies 
NO achieves excellence on and off the field 
which ranked No. 18 on the 
By KATIE PERRY 
academic list and No. 16 on A..sis~;uH News Editor 
the athletic -is one of only a 
small number of schools that 
Imagine holding two full­has achieved excellence in time jobs -working a long, both scholarship and sports. hard day at a primary job then The weight of this feat is large­heading straight to a second ly borne by Notre Dame's stu­eight-hour shift. dent-athletes. 
In many respects, this sce­nario is analogous to the 
A balancing act
demanding life of a collegiate Unlike most college students. 
student-athlete at Notre Dame. 
who ideally have one main
The University was only one focus -their schoolwork ­of three schools to crack the student-athletes must grappletop 20 on both the 2006 US with two.
News & World Heport list of 
Third-year law student
America's Best Colleges and Bobby Brown. who serves as
the National Association of student representative on the
Collegiate Directors of Athletics 
Faculty Board of AthleticsDirector's Cup rankings 
(FBA) said the University gen-
KAII:
n~leasnd last June. 
Joining Stanford and Duke in Lacrosse player John Duffy, right, and mentor Mark Hockley work this class, Notre Dame -see STUDENTS/page 8 together on homework Sept. 29. 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Internet sluggish atSMC 
IT says problem will not be fixed this year 
By LAUREN LAYELLE 
News Writer 
More than just a month into the academic year, Saint Mary's students arc still experiencing problems with the campus Internet connection -and the Department of Information Technology says the glitches will not be fixed anytime soon. 
The slow connection speed can cause students to wait up to several hours to load Web sites. Many said they arc upset because the slow connection prevents them from completing online tasks such as checking e-mail or doing research for class. 
"I get really frustrated when I need to use the Internet to do homework and I have to sit and wait for what feels like hours," junior Kirsten Kensinger said. 
The Internet problems have also caused students to change their schedules to lit the times when their computers will be most effective. 
"I end up staying up late or getting up early to do work because that is when the Internet is fast," said freshman Amanda Jaszkowski. "It is frus­trating because when I want to do my homework in the after­noon, I can't. It is just really inconvenient." 
With no recent improvement in the connection speed, many 
see INTERNET/page 4 

Sports archive attracts attention 

MATTHEW SMEDBEAG!The Observer 
Curator George Rugg displays memorabilia from the Joyce Sports Research Collection. 

SMC posts dining inforn1ation online 
made it easier for studt•nh to make good derision~ when it comes to llH' dining hall. 
Barry Bowlt)S, the g<'rwral foods managl'r of tilt' 1'\olllt· Family Dining llall at Saint Mary's, said lw undPrstand~ the d i f'!'i cuI ty in making healthy choices. In an P!Tort to aid students with this problem, Bowles has worked to gt)t tlw nutrition­al information for all tht· foods offnn)d in tlw dining hall postt~d onlin<'. 
"We postt•d tlw informa­tion beeaust) students want­ed it," Bowles said. "\Vt• rec11ived comment rards 
sec FOOD/page 5 

Fans cheer on the Fighting Irish Saturday at Ross-Ade Stadium as Notre Dame beat Purdue 49-28. 
By JENNY HAMES 
News Writer 
Notre Dame fans boiled over with excitement Saturday as the Irish racked up a big win over the Purdue Boilermakers in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Notre Dame fans who traveled to watch the in­state rivalry and who caught the game in the South Bend were pleased by the team's performance against the Boilermakers. 
Freshman Dan Canders said he believes the win over Purdue Saturday bodes well for the next game. when Notre Dame will take on No. 1 University of Southern California at home on Oct. 15. 

"I think [this win] is a big momentum boost for us," Canders said. 
Senior Eric Iless agreed and added that head coach Charlie Weis's coaching tac­tics proved to be stellar against Boilermaker head coach Joe Tiller. 
"If our offense keeps play­ing like this. there's no rea­son we won't beat USC," he said. "I think the [Indianapolis Star] said it best when it noted, 'The pro game requires an entirely different level of sophistica­
see WIN/page 4 

MONDAY, OCTOBER3, 2005 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
News Writer 

From an autographed copy of boxer Jack Dempsy's autobiography to the first book on American football, written by Walter Camp, the Joyce Sports Research Collection houses hundreds of thousands of sports archives. 
The research collection. located in Notre Dame's Ilesburgh Library, is used more than one would think. With about 700 visitors in the past year. curator George Hugg finds it easy to keep busy. 
"The collection's used pretty intensively," said Hugg. who has held the position since 1994. "It's certainly not unusual for people to travel to Notre Dame to usc this collection." 
Authors and movicmakcrs use the collection for research as well. including those involved with the movies "Cinderella Man" and "Unforgivable Blackness," a Ken Burns fihn. 
"If you're working in college football. or boxing especially, this would be among the first places, if not the first place one would go to do research," 
see SPORTS/page 4 

By EMILY LAVELLE 
News Writer 
In comparison to the pres­sures of earning good grades. adjusting to life away from home and keep­
ing  up  
w w  i t h o r k- See Also  
s  t  u d y  "Nutritionist  
jobs, the challenge of eating  keeps students focused"  
healthily is gener­ page3  
ally  the  
least of a  
student's  concerns.  But  

Sodexho. the food service provider at Saint Mary's, has 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, October 3, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Sorry, w-rong exit 
When I woke up two Thursdays ago. it seemed like it was going to be just another average day. This day turned out to be far from average, though. The day began as I woke up at 7 a.m. to take a 
Jenny Hames 
test on the other side of campus. I stumbled out of Wire Editor bed in a daze and finally made my way down to the bike rack and made my way to the test. I arrived there. though, only to find that the test had been cancelled. After standing there in shock at the news I just heard. I made my way back to my dorm. and then the day proceeded on as normal for a while. 
My day proceeded to be normal. I should say, until I tried to leave DPAC. I had just finished taking a test in the Browning Cinema. and I decid­ed to go out the door in the front of the cinema rather than the door that I usually go out of in the back. I had seen people leave this way many times. so I figured it couldn't be that hard to figure out how to get out of the building from there. In fact. my roommate is in my class. and she has gone through this door many times before and always makes it out all right. 
Somehow. though. I encountered a problem when I went through this door. As my friends like to tell me. I ended up getting locked behind an open door in a stairwell. In order to get myself into this situation of being locked in the stairwell. I went through a second door that had a sign on it that stated "This door will lock behind you." I figured it was only logical that a door that locks behind you would lead to an exit at some point. and it did -only it was an emergency exit. 
Not wanting to go through an emer­gency exit and set off an alarm that would call attention to my predica­ment. I went up and down the stair­well and knocked on every door hop­ing someone would let me out. After about 10 minutes of being trapped. I decided it was time to try the emer­gency exit. I moved the handle of the door ever so slightly. and the alarm began to blare. but I hadn't pushed the handle hard enough to open the door. From that experience. I made the erroneous conclusion that this door was not going to open either. I continued to knock on the other doors in the stairwell for a few more min­utes. but then I decided to go back and try the emergency exit again. This time it opened quite easily, and I finally saw the light of day and was able to take a breath of fresh air. 
After taking that first breath of fresh air. I realized that the alarm was still buzzing from the door being opened. I informed DPAC about what had happened, and from that point. I continued on with my day, hoping that nothing else out of the ordinary would happen. 
Contact Jenny Hames at jhames@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, the article "With hard-won tickets, students flock to Purdue" in the Sept. 30 issue ofThe Observer contained several inaccurate state­ments. The Student Union Hoard did not say they were sponsoring buses to West Lafayene for Saturday's game. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR REACTION TO SATURDAY's FOOTBALL GAME? 
Pat Schaefer  Jake lmm  Dorean Mlrchandanl  Patrick Brown  Lupe Pineda  Erlnn Mulee  
junior Keough  senior of!campus  freshman Keough  sophomore Morrissey  freshman Welsh Family  freshmwz Pasquerilla East  
"Samardzijafor Heisman!"  'We should play the Purdue game  "It was like Christmas morning when  "IfMichigan had a radio, it would  "I thought the offense was spectacular. "  "I wish! had gone. but it was an amazing  

10 times a you want that have been year!" train set and you sweet." don't get it. but it turns out your dad was hiding it the whole time. " 

Bar made with Ice opens In London 
LONDON-A chilly bit of Scandinavia is coming to the heart of London's West End Saturday with the opening of Absolut Icebar. a bar made entirely out of ice right down to the art on the walls and the glasses for the drinks. 
Situated next to the accom­panying but room tempera­ture Below Zero restaurant. the bar is kept at minus 23 fahrenheit year round. For a cover charge of 12 pounds ($22.20). patrons are given a thermal cape. thick gloves and a glass made out of ice before entering the second of two airtight doors designed to keep heat out. 
"It's an experience rather than a traditional bar. We feel we're really offering something different," said Anette Eliasson. manager of market communications for V&S Absolut Spirits vodka company. which is opening the bar with partner compa­ny Icehotel. 
Wis. man smashes case to read rare book 
MADISON. Wis.-A man smashed a display case at the Wisconsin Historical 
Society  to  steal  a  
Revolutionary  War-era  
book  worth  $5,000.  
authorities say.  

Matthew Brooke, 26. was charged Friday with felony theft of library materials and criminal damage to 
·property. He went to the Historical Society on Thursday. according to a criminal complaint. and smashed the window on a second-floor antique dis­play case with his elbow. He allegedly swiped the "Pennsylvania Evening Post" from inside the case. 
The book is a collection of the newspaper's issues dating from January to April 1777. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
::t 
1­
~ 
3: 
..J 
<
(.) 

0 
HIGH 86 HIGH 72 HIGH 86 HIGH 81
-J 
LOW 74 LOW 65 LOW 66 LOW 37 
game anyWCllJS." 
IN BRIEF 

The Medieval Institute will sponsor a lecture titled ·After Notker: New Poets. New Composers. and New Poetry· today at 5 p.m. in the Eck Visitors Center Auditorium. The event features speaker Calvin M. Bower and is part of the 2005 Conway Lectures ·series. "Grasping the Wind: Words for Melodies in South­German Liturgial Music, 800­
1200." 
1985 Notre Dame graduate Doug Regan. chairman and CEO of Northern Trust Bank. will be featured in the presentation "Time, Talent and Treasure: The Contributions of the Arts & Letters Major to Society. Business and Global Relations· at 6 p.m. tonight in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. A panel discussion will follow. The event is free and open to stu­dents and faculty. 
Cass Sunstein. Karl N. Llewellyn Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence at the University of Chicago Law School. will give a rescheduled lecture on his recently pub­lished book. "Radicals in Robes: Why Extreme Right-Wing Courts Are Wrong for America· at 4 p.m. Thesday in the Notre Dame Law School Courtroom. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) will open its 2005-06 theater season with Arthur Kopit 's "Wings· Thesday to Saturday at 7:30p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 
p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 60 HIGH 57 LOW 29 LOW 32 
Atlanta 84 I 58 Boston 71 I 49 Chicago 72 I 50 Denver 80 I 49 Houston 84 I 64 Los Angeles 84 I 62 Minneapolis 73 I 55 New York 73 I 54 Philadelphia 68 I 50 Phoenix 100 I 76 Seattle 64 I 48 St. Louis 76 I 55 Tampa 88 I 74 Washington 77 I 52 

Nutritionist keeps students focused 
Monday, October 3, 2005 page 3
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
said. 
llowever, many students have positive responses to continued from page 1 the availability of tlw infor­mation. 

Food 
requesting thr, information 

"I wouldn't look at lthe 
and decided that students nutritional information I 

should have access to it." everyday, but I would look at 

The information is taken 

it every once in a while to sen 
from a large database pro­how balanced my dint is,"

vided by Sodexho, the food senior Jennifer Hobbins said. 

service supplier of Saint Freshman Chevonn Fant 

Mary's. It includes serving 

said she would probably con­
size, calorie content, sodium, sult the site "about every two 

protein and carbohydrate 

weeks." Juniol· Kristin llnath,
information. Bowles said that 

who already checks the din­
although this is the second 

ing hall menus online about 
year the information has 

twice a week, said she will 
been posted, the majority of start checking thn nutritional 

students arc 
information 
unaware of 
whenever she 
this online 

''This information can checks the 
feature. menu.

be extremely beneficial 
"We arc Junior Molly

working to for athletes and other 
White said 
promote the 

students who are although she 
fact that stu­is in favor of
concerned about 
dents now posting the 
have access eating a healthy. 

information to the infor­balanced diet." online, she 
mation," he worried it 
said. "We are 
might enable
Kate Wallach 
also working students with 
on educating SMC Student Services 

disordered students on Commissioner 
eating habits. 
how to access 
"I think 
it and use it." 
someone who 
In order to promote the 

did [have an eating disorder[ new Web page, Bowles hopes 
might usc this information to 
to add a computer kiosk with further hurt themselves," she 

instructions on how to access said. 
and use the site in the dining Wallach said she felt this 

hall. 

would not be a problem.
Kate Wallach, the Student 

"This [online feature[ is Services Commissioner for 
designed to help, not hurt 
Saint Mary's, said she hopes people," she said. "Instead of 

that once students are aware avoiding the dining hall, now 

of this feature, they will take students will know what they

advantage of it. 

can eat to have a balancnd 
"The information can be 

diet and be healthy."extremely beneficial for ath­
Bowles said if more stu­
letes and other students who 

dents access the Web site, its 
are concerned about eating a 

usefulness can be logged.
healthy, balanced diet," she llowever, he said he does not 

said. 

believe posting the informa­
Although the information 

tion will have any rwgative 
may be useful, some students etTects on students. 

are doubtful they will use the 

"This Web site is only
online feature. Many, like designed to educate," he 

junior Kristin Kania, said 

said. "I r,ncourage students 
they will not have time to 

to log on and see what it's all 
look up the information. 

about and learn about living
"Although I would like to 

healthy lifestyles."
know about [the nutritional information]. I am too busy Contact Emily Lavelle at to look it up online," Kania elaveiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TRYOUTS! 
Walk-on t':!Jouts for the Womens Basketball Tuun U't1! be held Monda!!, October 3, at 4:00p.m. 1i1 the Pitt-)o!fce Center. 
Now leasing quality houses 
close to campus for the 2006/7 and 2007/8 school years. 
Call Sean at Anlan Properties 
57 4-532-!895 

By LISA SCHULTZ 
Nrw' Writer 
N1~w Notre Danw stud1~nts are undc>r an imnwnsn amount of pn~ssurn learning to adapt to rollogo lifo-tlwy must lnarn to navigalo campus, coursos and thi~ I r ish soc i a I s c en o . Most accomplish this succnssfully by tlw ond of tlw first snnwstiH' and by senior year can consider thnmselv1~s profossional Donwrs. 
One an~a most students do not learn to navigate well, however, is dining on campus. 
A 20(ll study about eating dis­orders at the University indicat­ed that the seriousness of high­risk t~ating behaviors and pat­to rns is ignored. education Antonelli offers espe­with an individually specific plan 
In an effort to combat cially useful. for each student. unlwalthy habits, Notre Damn Antonelli said a nutritionist's This is especially important at Food Snrvices provides a profes­main goal is not to figure out a a large university like Notre sional resource for students who good diet for an individual, but Dame. The 2001 study found want to beconw educated on to develop a healthy life plan. that Notre Dame's residential how to eat lwalthily in college -"I focus on general health," environment, coupled with nutritionist.Jocio Antonelli. she said. extremely high-achieving stu­
Antonelli said students can sec Antonelli said healthy eating dents, can even cause the lwr if tlwy want lwlp regarding -not caloric counting or behaviors of some students to anything to do with oaling extreme exercising -is a big impact others significantly. The habits -gaining weight saf'tdy, part of a healthy lifestyle for study also indicated that eating 
avoiding tlw drnadml "freshman rweryone from varsity football disorders on campus are largely 
or hints on how to eat players to sedentary froshmen underrated. hnallhily in tlw dining halls. who may be 25 pounds over­Jessica Weiner, who authored 
According to a July 2005 weight. "A Very Ilungry Girl" to raise University prnss ml1)aso, 72 per­She also said she attempts to eating disorder awareness, told ront nf tlw class of 200!) lettered help students avoid eating disor­students that discussion about in at loast ono varsity sport dur­ders through education. eating is the key to figuring out ing tlwir senior year of high When a student goes to see a healthy life plan when she vis­school. Tlw high level of partici­Antonelli, she tries to get. a gen­ited campus during Eating pation often drops whon stu­eral picture of the student's eat­Disorders Awareness Week last dents reach Notre Dame, where ing pattern and general lifestyle. spring. gaining a spot on a sports team Standard questions for students "The need to talk about this is far mon) compotitivo. are. "What is your biggest meal issue is profound," she said. 
While many students choose of the day?" and "How often do "Like many college campuses, to participatP in interhall sports, you exercise?" [Notre Dame] is an incredibly level of physical activity is Antonelli said she also typical­tough school, and you all are 
lon~(or regulated by condi­ly asks students who seek her perfectionists. There is incredi­tioning or daily practicos. The lwlp to keep track of their eating ble pressure on you." change in exnrcise routines and patterns for three days so she inevitaliln changt) in eating pat­can get a better idea of their Contact Lisa Schultz at 
makes the healthy eating behaviors in order to como up lschultz@nd.edu 


University of NotJ·e Dame International Study Progt·am in 
Angers, France Paris, France 
INFORMATION MEETING 

Top Ten Reasons Why You Should NOT Go To France 
With Prof. Paul Mcnowell and returnees of the program 
Wednesday, October 5, 2005 7:30PM 118 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 Academic Ycar 2006-2007 Fall 2006 , Spring 2007 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 



Monday, October 3, 2005

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
at the game. 
As the Irish scored touch­
Win 
down after touchdown and the 

continued from page 1 starters were given a break near the end of the game, fan excitement did not wane. 
tion. Weis was playing chess Many fans commented on sec­Saturday night and Tiller was ondary players who do not playing Candy Land."' often get to play. 
Some Irish fans were able to Junior Jon Brewis said he travel to West Lafayette over was especially happy about the weekend to see Weis's tac­Weis's decision to put tight tics in action. end John Carlson in the game, 
Sophomore Brendan Ryan, saying Carlson showed he can who attended the Purdue benefit the team in future game, said he also attended games. the Michigan and Pittsburgh "John Carlson is our most games this year. Ryan said he underused asset on offense, was quite impressed by the and his touchdown Saturday way the Purdue fans received proves his ability," he said. the Notre Dame Freshman fans in atten-K a t e dance. Crecelius ­
"The fans there "The fans there were originally 
were pretty from West
pretty classy. They 
classy," he said. Lafayette ­"They weren't giv­weren't giving us as was in atten­
ing us as hard of a hard ofa time as they dance at the 
time as they were game in her · 
were at Michigan and
at Michigan and hometown Pittsburgh."· Pittsburgh. " Saturday. Other fans were W h i I e 
not lucky enough 

Brendan Ryan Crecelius's 
to attend the family has
sophomore
game, but always had watched the game season tick­on the Notre ets to the 
Dame campus. Game watches Purdue games, Crecelius said were held on South Quad and she changed her loyalty to at Legends, as well as in many Notre Dame this year when dorms. Most showed a high she became a student. level of enthusiasm during the "It wasn't hard for me to 
high-scoring game -the switch loyalties," she said. "All 
research collection." Within the collection as a




Sports 
whole, there are different groupings of items. One collec­

continued from page 1 
tion is that of 64 autographed 

baseballs, which includes sig­Rugg said. "We work routinely natures from almost 50 Hall of with networks such as ESPN Famers. 7,500 boxing photos and so on." from the 1920s and '30s ­
The collection contains pri­almost all unpublished-com­mary sources for many differ­prise the Harry Winkler collec­ent sports-related subjects, tion. There are also scrapbooks 
mostly dat­ing back to the 19th and early 20th cen­turies. 
"It's a collection of older, primary source, sports­related materials," Rugg said. "I think it's a collection r e a I I y that's more 
"What it is, first and foremost, it's a research collection. It's not a collection ofmemorabilia, ofautographs, or uniforms or sports equipment. It's here first andforemost as a research collection." 
George Rugg curator 

appropriate for people doing advanced research, writing books, scholars and graduate students who are working in the history and sociology of sports, journalists and film­makers." 
Rugg emphasized that the collection exists not for sports fans, but rather for academic purposes. 
"What it is, first and fore­
Notre Dame 
of the All­American Girls Professional Baseball League that contain clip­pings, corre­spondence and programs from the WWII league. 
However, the core of the col­lection comes from a pur­chase the University made in 1977, Rugg said. bought the 
Goodwin-Goldfadden collection almost a decade after begin­ning to solicit donations for its new sports library. Rugg said that hundreds of thousands of items were shipped to Notre Dame because of the purchase. 
"That really continues to be the core of the collection," he said. 
But the biggest break for the the money to build a collection, with purchased acquisitions," Rugg said. 
The collection was able to add something else recently with the purchase of a business ledger of the Birmingham Black Barons, a Negro League team. It contains all the finan­cial information of the team, including players' salaries and the business records. 
"Records of these leagues are extremely scarce, so this was really a .wonderful item," Hugg said. "This is a great thing to have-it will be studied." 
And for those who don't use the collection for research, occasionally some of the archives are put on display in the lobby of the library. 
"We did [an exhibit] last win­ter on our boxing related col­lectiqns," Rugg said. "That would be another way people can experience the collections. The reason these things aren't out in stacks and don't circulate is because we're trying to make them available for research on the one hand, but we're trying to preserve them as artifacts on the other." 
Even with the opportunity to experience the displays, Rugg said he would like more Notre Dame undergraduates to be able to utilize the collections. 
"We certainly want to encourage undergraduate use," he said. "It's just that most undergraduates writing papers 
scene on South Quad after the Irish scored a touchdown looked as though it was pulled straight out of the student sec­tion of the stadium, with stu­dents doing push-ups and cheering as if they were really 


Internet 
continued from page 1 
students said they want an explanation. 
"I don't know why the Internet is so slow this year," junior Kristin Heath said. "I don't understand why [the Department of Information Technology] hasn't addressed the issue yet. Students have no idea what the problem is." 
Director of Information Technology Keith Fowlkes said the connection is slow because the College does not currently have the-capacity to accommo­date the amount of Internet traffic moving through campus circuits. Fowlkes attributes the recent increase of traffic to the popularity of movie downloads, file transfers and music pro­grams like iTunes. 
"Purchasing music through iTunes and other legitimate online music providers is good, but it puts a real strain on our off-campus Internet connec­tions," he said. 
Sharing iTunes and using Internet radio programs requires a constant connection to the network circuits. These constant connections drain available space for other traffic to flow through the system, Fowlkes said. 












my friends made fun of me for 

most, it's a research collection," collection came in 1987 when it don't use primary sources." cheering for Notre Dame, but 
he said. "It's not a collection of was endowed, which enabled it they were pretty quiet after 
memorabilia, of autographs, of to continue to grow. the game was over." 
uniforms or sports equipment. "Not only was there money to Contact Heather VanHoegarden 
It's here first and foremost as a develop the collection, but also at hvanhoeg@nd.edu Contact Jenny Hames at jhames@nd.edu 
Want to write News? 
Fowlkes also said this is also a problem with other legitimate downloading and purchasing 


Call Heather at 1-5323. 
sites like Napster. "These programs trample the connection," he said. 
Fowlkes rejects speculation that personal wireless routers slow the system. 
"If the problem was with something like wireless routers, the entire network would be slow, not just the Internet con­nection," he said. 
Fowlkes also said it is unlike­ly the Internet connection will improve this year. While Saint Mary's annually increases the size of its Internet circuits, "as soon as we add more capacity, it gets taken up," Fowlkes said. 
To remedy the problem, Saint 

Consider Mary's would need to increase the amount of Megabytes on which the current system oper­
Holy Cross Associates' ates. Such an increase in space would cost an additional $15,000 annually-an expense not budgeted for the 2005-06 
Information Nights
academic year. "We do have plans in place to 

TONIGHT @4pm (Domestic Program)
address the problem for next year," Fowlkes said. 

Monday, 10/10@ 4pm and 7pm (Chile Program
In the meantime, Fowlkes advises students to limit their 

Tuesday, 10/11@ 7pm (Domestic Program) use of programs like iTunes and Internet radio and use of 

All Sessions at the CSC 
downloading sites such as Napster. 

Contact Lauren Lavelle at 

Come to meet with HCA alumns and learn more about the benefits of becoming a Holy Cross Associate! 
"As the most challenging and rewarding experience of my l~f'e thus far, I feel that HCA completely changed my world view and put me on a path to a fuller life'' 
http://hoJycrossassociates.nd.edu Email: hca@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 3, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Storm weakens, heads for Mexico 
lA PAZ. Mexico-Hurricane Otis weakened to ·a tropical storm Sunday and headed north toward an unpopulated stretch of the Baja California Peninsula, while a tropical depres­sion strnngthened to a tropical storm just lwfon~ hitting land in southern Mexico. 
Tropical Storm Stan fonned bdore dawn Sunday and then plowed into land about 40 miles southwest of Tulum. on the Yucatan Peninsula. It carried maximum sustained winds of 4!i mph, the National Hurricane Centor in Miami said. 
The storm was expected to dump up to 15 inches of rain in some areas of the Yucatan Peninsula and Belize before weakening to a tropieal depression. No major damages or injuries were immediately reported. and the storm was expeet1~d to move mostly south of tlw popular rnsort of Cancun. 
Along thn Pacific coast. the Mexican govern­ment issued a tropical storm warning for the southnrn tip of the Baja California peninsula as Otis continuPd to sideswipe the narrow stretch of land. No injuries have been reported. 
Female chancellor a real possibilty 
DHESDEN. Germany-Conservative chal­lnnger Angela Merkel's party gained a scat Sunday in the last rnmaining district in parlia­mentary balloting, boosting her chances of b1~coming Germany's first female chancellor and giving the party extra momentum in coali­tion talks to form a new government. 
With all 2(J0 electoral districts reporting, Andreas Laemmel from Merkel's Christian Democrats won the contest for a seat in Dresden with 37 percent of the vote. lle defeated Marlies Volkmer from Chancellor G1~rhard Schroeder's party, who had 32.1 per­cent. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Suicide takes place near stadium 
NOHMAN. Okla. -One person was killed in an explosion near a packed football stadium at the University of Oklahoma on Saturday night in what authorities said appeared to be a suicide. 
The blast, in a trallic circle about 100 yards from Oklahoma Memorial Stadium. could be heard by some in the crowd of 84.000, but uni­versity President David Boren said no one inside the stadium was ever in danger. 
"We are apparently dealing with an individual suicide, which is under full investigation," Boren said in a statement. There was no in!or­rnation about the person who was killed, and no reports of any other injuries. 
A police bomb squad detonated explosives found at the site of the blast. The area near the stadium was searched by bomb-sniffing dogs. 

Firefighters make progress on blaze 
LOS ANGELES -Firefighters gained ground Sunday against three wildfires burning across Southern California but worried about a forecast for hot winds. 
A 1,045-acre fire in Burbank was 67 percent contained after firefighters were aided by cooler, overnight breezes, said Capt. Ron Bell of the Burbank Fire Department. 
Hesidents returned to about 70 evacuated homes in Sunset Canyon. But firefighters were concemed about a forecast for warmer winds that could bring 50 mph gusts and re-ignite what appeared to be a "cold mountain," Bell said. 

Loc.AL NEws 
Human remains to be examined 
HENSSEI.AEH. Ind. -Forensic experts will gather Monday for a detailed examination of human remains believed to be those of an Indiana woman missing and presumed dead since 1 999. 
The body was unearthed Friday on a northern Indiana farm after David Malinski, who was convicted in 2000 of murdering Lorraine Kirkley, 34, told authorities he buried her body on property owned at the time by his father. 
Malinski was sentenced to 155 years in prison, but had steadfastly denied killing Kirkley until two weeks ago, when he told authorities about the killing and the burial site. 
page 5 
INDONESIA 


Alert level high after Saturday's attack 
Video image shows bomber casually walking through diners before deadly explosion 
Associated Press 
BALI -Police raised the 
alert level for Indonesia's 
capital and the president 
warned of more attacks 
Sunday as a chilling video 
shot the day before showed 
a suspected bomber clutch­
ing a backpack and strolling 
past diners moments before 
one of three suicide bomb­
ings killed 26 people on 
Bali. 
The near-simultaneous bombings on the resort island also injured 101 peo­ple, including six Americans. 
The attacks apparently were planned by Southeast Asia's two most-wanted men, who are believed to be connected to an al-Qaida­linked group, said Maj. Gen. Ansyaad Mbai, a top Indonesian anti-terror offi­cial. 
Fear of more attacks on tourists prompted Israel to waru its citizens Sunday not to travel to Egypt's Sinai desert during the upcoming month of Jewish holidays, saying it has information that Arab militants planning strikes against Israelis already are located in the resort area. 

The alleged masterminds of the Bali attacks were believed to be Azahari bin Husin and Noordin Mohamed Top, both Malaysians who fled to Indonesia after a crack­more strikes in the world's explained Saturday that his chatting at candlelit tables. down on militants following most populous Muslim warning was based on intel­The man clutches his the Sept. 11 attacks, officials nation as Jakarta's police ligence the terrorists had backpack, adjusts it slightly, said. chief put the capital on top already prepared the explo­then walks out of view. 
The masterminds were alert, with two-thirds of its sives. Moments later there is an not among the suspected police force on standby. There were no claims of explosion from his direction, bombers, whose remains "The terrorists are still responsibility for Saturday followed by gray smoke and were found at the scenes, looking for soft targets." night's coordinated attacks terrified screams. Police officials said. All three Yudhoyono said at a news on two packed seafood cafes said the video, obtained by bombers were believed to conference after viewing the in the Jimbaran beach Associated Press Television be wearing belts of explo­devastation. resort and the Raja Cafe News, was part of the inves­sives, police said. Western and Indonesian noodle and steakhouse in tigation. 
"All that is left is their intelligence agencies have the bustling tourist center of Suspicion for the blasts head and feet," Mbai said. warned repeatedly that Kuta. fell on the Southeast Asian "By the evidence we can Jemaah Islamiyah was plot­Video footage shot by a terrorist group Jemaah conclude the bombers were ting more attacks despite a vacationer at the three-story Islamiyah, which wants to carrying the explosives string of arrests. Raja Cafe captured a sus­establish an Islamic state around their waists." Last month, Yudhoyono pected bomber in a black T­across Southeast Asia and 
President Susilo Bambang said the extremist network shirt walking past foreign has been linked to Osama Yudhoyono warned that ter­might strike Jakarta during and local tourists eating din­bin Laden's terrorist net­rorists could be planning September or October. He ner, sipping drinks and work. 



Second nomination awaits Bush 
dent is most likely to choose a woman vative federal appeals court judges J. 
Associated Press 
to replace 0 'Connor, even though many Michael Luttig, Priscilla Owen, Karen 

WASHINGTON -President Bush is of the often-mentioned candidates are Williams, Alice Batchelder and Samuel watching his first Supreme Court nomi­white men. Alito; Michigan Supreme Court justice nee, Chief Justice John Roberts, take There continues to be talk in legal cir­Maura Corrigan; and Maureen the helm of the high court Monday cles that he could pick one of three Mahoney, a well-respected litigator while weighing his options for nominat­longtime Bush loyalists: White House before the high court. ing a second justice who also could counsel Harriet Miers, the frrst women On Monday, Bush is going to the shape the bench for years to come. president of the Texas State Bar and Supreme Court for a formal ceremony 
"He's still working," White House Bush's former personal attorney; at which Roberts, who was confirmed chief of staff Andy Card said Sunday Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, by the Senate 78-22 and sworn in at the about the president's effort to choose a Bush's longtime friend, who would be White House on Thursday, assumes the replacement for retiring Justice Sandra the frrst Hispanic on the court; and cor­role of chief justice. Following tradition, Day O'Connor. "Still considering lots of porate lawyer Larry Thompson, who Roberts will don his robe for the first options." was the government's highest ranking time and take the center seat last held 
The White House will not disclose black law enforcement official when he by the late former Chief Justice William who is on Bush's short list. or hint when was deputy attorney general during Rehnquist. an announcement will be made. Bush's frrst term. The president declined twice on Legal experts who are in touch with Other candidates mentioned most fre­Sunday to say whether he'd made up administration officials say the presi-quently in recent days include conser-his mind about a second nominee. 
Monday, October 03, 2005
page 6 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Time, Talent & Treasure 

The Contributions of the Arts & Letters Major To Society, Business & Global Relations 

Monday, October 3 6:00 -7:30 p.m. McKenna Hall CCE Auditorium 
Arts & Letters Alumni and Students discuss the 
• Intrinsic and Real-World Value of the A&L Education 
• Contributions of the A&L Major to Social justice & Equity, Corporations, and International Affairs 
Douglas Regan NO '85 English Amy Rynell NO '91 Pre-Professional Stu~ies Bong Miquiabas NO '94 Political Science 
Katherine Malkovsky NO '06 Art History & English Lance Chapman NO '06 Political Science & Arabic 
~UNIVERSITY OF  
Spons<)red by  WNOTREDAME  
1  PTF?TI  College of Arts and Letters  


~-----­
Monday, October 3, 2005 



Dow 10 568.70 +15.92 

jones  '  
~­ Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,276  IS 7  •  2,176,121,500  
AMEX  1,736.89  +5.52  
NAS~Q­NYSE  2,151.69 +10.47 ~ .t632.98_,~_"'-~ ±!f~4[:J  
S&PSOO  1,228.81  +1.13  

NII<Kfi(Tokyo) t~~~.743o.~~-=~=o:on_:] FTSE IOO(London) 5,477.70 -0.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) +0.66 +0.26 39.46 
JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU) +3.74 +0.08 2.22 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.81 -0.21 25.73 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.34 +0.06 17.92 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.65 +0.08 12.40 
30-YEAR BOND +0.64 +0.29 45.68 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.91 +0.39 43.28 
5-YEAR NOTE +UO +0.54 4L95 
3-MONTH BILL +0.35 +0.12 34.70 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) ~0.55 66.24 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -3.50 472.30 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) ~1.10 90.28 
Excha Rates 
YEN 
1114750 
EURO 
0.8312 
POUND 0.5666 
CANADIAN$ 1.1626 
IN BRIEF 
Corporation to launch defibrilator 
INI>I/\N/\I'OI.IS-Guidant Corp. said Friday it had received regulatory approval for a new model of' implantable heart defibrillator. 
Tlw approval of' the Vitality liE follows a string of announcements since June as the Indianapolis-based company has recalled or issund warnings about 88,000 heart defibril­lators -including its leading seller, the Contak Hencwal 3 -and almost 200,000 pacemakers because of reported malfunc­tions. 
Pacemakers usc mild electrical current to speed a slow heartbeat; defibrillators usc a bigger jolt to correct life-threatening irregu­lar heartbeats. 
Guidant said that its U.S. launch of the Vitality liE is planned for early October. 
Thn troublns with Guidant's devices have raised questions over its reporting of potential problems and a planned $25.4 billion acquisi­tion by New Jersey-based Johnson & .Johnson. 
Guidant shams closed up 72 cents at $68.89 in trading Friday on the New York Stock l~xchange, after tumbling on Thursday follow­ing a report that the medical device maker might be the subject of a criminal investiga­tion by the Food and Drug Administration. 


Dollar rises amidst political limbo 
NEW YOHK-The dollar rose against the «luro Friday as concerns about the incon­clusive German election continued to weigh on the 12-nation currency. 
The euro fell to $1.2018 in late New York trading, from $1.2044 late Thursday, but traders said it has shown resilience above the psychologically important $1.20 level. 
Leading members of Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's party say they arc optimistic of forming a new government with their con­servative rivals, although it was unclear the two sides might resolve their dispute over the country's leadership. 
The British pound fell to $1.7633 from $1. 76:{(>. The dollar rose to 1.2944 Swiss francs from 1.2921, and fell to 1.1615 Canadian dollars from 1.1691. 
The dollar rose against the Japanese cur­rency amid upbeat economic figures out of Japan, rising to 113.60 yen from 112.86 yon. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Evidence of recession surfaces 
Low home, car sales, high energy costs prompts concern among economists 
W/\SIIINGTON -Things  
are going so badly for  
President Bush and his fel­ 
low Republicans that it is  
hard to imagine what could  
come along and make it  
worse.  
Think recession.  
With Bush's approval rat­ 
ings ncar a low point, he is  
running near empty on  
political capital and finds  
himself presiding over a  
restive GOP.  
A recession could hasten  
his status as a lame-duck  
president ahead of the 2006  
midterm elections and jolt  
the party that controls both  
ends of Pennsylvania  
/\venue.  
The "H" word is being  
heard more often among  
economists. especially after  
recent reports showed tum­ 
bles in consumer spending  
and eonlidcnce.  
New home sales are  
down. Auto sales have  
slowed. Higher energy  
prices -due partly to the  
hurricanes that damaged  
drilling and relining installa­ 
tions along the Gulf Coast ­ 
have eroded consumers'  
buying power. Inl1ation is  
trending highc r. Interest  
rates. too.  
"Hecession risks are rap­ 
APidly rising," said Mark  
Construction crews continued to work to clean up New Orleans Sunday. PresidentZandi, chief economist of  
Economy.com, an economic Bush has pledged millions of dollars to help with economic recovery in the region.  
analysis service in West  
Chester, Pa. The last reces­ lighting an economic down­ Alan Greenspan. who has  credibility and experi«mce to  
sion was in 2001.  turn.  helped to keep the economy  succeed Greenspan, in an  
Zandi is not forecasting a  A recession would mean  on an even keel during his  effort to calm market jitters.  
recession. But he said a cold  fewer dollars l1owing into  18-year term, nears his  The betting is that Bush  
winter, a further pullback in  the treasury and force the  retirement in January.  will not wait until January  
consumer spending, a ter­ government to pay out more  Attention lately has  and will announce his  
rorist attack and other vari­ benefits to the poor and  focused on Bush's filling out  choice in the fall. The post  
ables could tip the scales.  those idled by the hurri­ the Supreme Court. But his  requires Senate approval.  
"And if we are going into a  canes.  selection of a new Fed chief  Eventually, the economic  
recession, by time we get  If the economy slides into  ranks right up there in  damage from the hurricanes  
around to figuring that out,  a recession because of infla­ terms of far-reaching conse­ will wear otT, replaced by a  
it will be too late," he said.  tion driven by energy prices,  quences.  boost from reconstruction.  
Bush's pledge to spend  that could restrict the  Private economists and  "We're fortunate that the  
"whatever it costs" to rebuild the Gulf Coast and  Federal Reserve's ability to stimulate the economy with  market watchers are sug­gesting that Bush follow the  economy is very, very strong now. It will continue to be  
the high bill for the Iraq war  lower interest rates. The  pattern he set in naming  strong," said /\I Hubbard,  
will keep swelling the deficit  scenario could unfold just as  John Roberts as chief jus­ chairman of Bush's National  
and limit his options for  the central bank's chairman,  tice: Pick someone with solid  Economic Council.  


Wal-Mart employees unite efforts 
ten to its people and make some United States have been accused of 
Associated Press 
changes. everything from paying lousy wages and "Management seems like they don't locking workers in overnight to discrim­TAMP!\, Fla. -It's not a union, but really respect the associates," said Carl inating against women. while foiling some Wal-Mart workers say it might be Jones, acting chairman of the new attempts by labor groups such as the the next best thing. group, who makes $9.40 an hour as the United Food and Commercial Workers 
Searching for a voice in their work lead cart-pusher at a store outside Union to organize workers. lives, employees of some central Florida Orlando. "We don't have a voice. We The food and commercial workers Wal-Mart stores have formed a workers don't have any rights at all." union is among the sponsors of the new group to collectively air complaints The company, however, says most of workers association, along with the about what they claim is shoddy treat­its associates are happy, and character­Service Employees International Union, ment by the retail giant. ized the effort in Florida as another and Acorn, an advocacy group for the 
About 250 employees and former attempt by the unions to get their hands poor. Central Florida was chosen for the employees from 40 central Florida in the pockets of some of its 1.3 million launch because of Wal-Mart's aggres­stores have joined the fledgling Wal­workers in the United States. sive expansion here. Mart Workers Association, spurred by "It's within (employees') legal rights to Nine Wai-Mart Supercenters have what they say is a reduction of hours do that, but this group is a wolf in opened in Florida so far this year to go and schedule changes recently that may sheep's clothing," Wal-Mart spokes­along with a dozen new stores last year, jeopardize health care benefits for woman Christi Gallagher said. "This is a according to the company. The state has some. Organizers say the word-of­labor organization attempting to mas­170 Supercenters and discount stores, mouth campaign is attracting 15 to 20 qw'1rade as something else." 39 Sam's Club stores, eight neighbor­new members every week. The world's largest and most prof­hood markets and six distribution cen­
The members say they hope their itable retailer has heard the employees' ter. More than 92,000 people work in efforts will persuade the company to lis-complaints before. Stores around the the company's Florida facilities. 
Monday, October 3, 2005

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
achieved academically as well as athletics scholastically on track than met the new NCAA stan­GPA needed to graduate. athletically. Last year as a sopho­for a degree. The Academic dards. Kegelman said the biggest chal­
Students 
more the standout made the Progress Rate (APR) -which will The statement said all 22 pro­lenge in the dual role of student­
continued from page 1 

erally appeals to prospective stu­dents who have the ability to handle classes in addition to competition. 
"I believe that ND attracts the type of athletes that are willing, able and anxious ·to take on the multiple roles," he said. 
Senior Erika Bohn, starting goalkeeper for the nationally­ranked women's soccer team, was named the 2005 Preseason Big East Goalkeeper of the Year. She was also a Collegiate Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) First Team Academic All-American in 2004 and earned a 3.74 GPA her junior year. 
Bohn found success both on and off the playing field -but not without some struggle. 
"I think in many ways college life is more difficult for student­athletes ... because we have so many roles to fulfill," she said. 
"'Student' comes first in the title student-athlete, so we defi­nitely have to stay on top of our grades. Being an athlete on top of this can be difl1cult because not only do we have to perform on the athletic field, but we also rep­resent the school so we have to be careful of what type of image is being portrayed." 
Junior swimmer Tim Kegelman -who holds Notre Dame records in the 100-butterfly and the 200-individual medley ­agreed that the life of a student­athlete is often challenging. 
"At times, it is more difficult [to be a student-athlete]. but the main thing is that it's just differ­ent," he said. "You have to like what you're doing to be motivat­ed enough to dedicate the time for both school and athletics ... 
, There's a balance there you have to achieve so you can excel at both while still enjoying the time you have [in college]." Kegelman, like Bohn, has 
College Swim Coaches go into effect December 2005 ­Association of America (CSCAA) will penalize schools unable to Academic All-American team retain athletes. and was named a Big East The APR point system requires Academic All-star. a school to score 925 or higher 
"[Performing well in school and out of a possible 1,000 to avoid at a varsity sport is] something penalty from the NCAA. Each you just have to get through one player begins with a worth of two step at a time, and when you look points. If the student-athlete back at the bigger picture, it's stays in school and maintains an something to be proud of," adequate GPA, they lose no Kegelman said. "Notre Dame is points. If a player's GPA drops the highest level of both academ­below a certain level or if he or ics and athletics. That's part of she departs school early, one why Notre Dame is so unique." point is lost. Two points are 
Bohn said although there are deducted if both scenarios occur. times when she feels over­Points for each athlete are tallied whelmed, the and added to a overall rewards of team total, which her academic and is then divided by
"I think in many
athletic endeav­the total number ors are "great." ways college life is of points possible ''I'm going to and multiplied by
more difficult for 
leave here with a 1,000.
student athletes ...
degree from one Once the plan is of the top univer­because we have so implemented, sities," she said. many roles to fulfill." penalties will go 
"And on the ath­· into effect imme­letic side, all of diately, and no 
Erika Bohn
my hard work school will be has been reward­senior student athlete exempted unless ed in the greatest it applies for a ways -being waiver. A March part of a great team and winning report on the PBS program a national championship. I think NewsHour with Jim Lehrer said the two worlds [of academics and more than half of the 328 athletics] can definitely coexist as Division I schools affected by the long as you can manage both plan would have failed under the sides and work hard at both." APR standards last year. 
Brown said he does not feel Tex Dutile, who serves as FBA most student-athletes on campus Chair and NCAA Faculty Athletics feel overwhelmed. Representative, said he is a pro­
"They thrive at both [academ­ponent of the new standards. ics and athletics] and enjoy doing "I fully support this reform ­it," he said. "The ability to deal too many schools have used stu­with athletic and academic pres­dent-athletes for athletics sures might be the reason so achievement without their having many ND athletes go on to unlim­a realistic chance to graduate," ited success beyond graduation." he said. "Happily, as last year's 
APR scores indicated, Notre Setting the standard Dame will most likely never get 
Last March, the National penalized for an APR failure." Collegiate Athletic Association A March statement released on (NCAA) introduced a new set of the official Notre Dame athletics guidelines for major Division I Web site said the University's col­sports programs to keep student-legiate sports programs more grams "exceeded" the not-yet­implemented APR. Notre Dame's overall score was 979 -35 points higher than the national average for Division I sports pro­grams. The University also boast­ed the third highest percentage of teams with perfect scores, as 13 Irish teams earned 1,000 points. 
Results could have been even better. The statement also said Notre Dame's overall APR would. be higher if the University used solely the NCAA standards instead of its own, more "strin­gent" guidelines for student-ath­letes -for example, releasing the academic records of student­athletes every semester instead of the once-per-year requirement imposed by the NCAA. If Notre Dame abandoned its tougher pol­icy, the overall APR would have been 990, the statement said. 
Above and beyond 

Dutile said the University "asks a lot from its student athletes," who must adhere to guidelines mandated by the FBA. Launched in 1898, the 15-member panel dedicates itself to the goal of "maintaining that delicate but critical balance between the aca­demic and the athletic at an insti­tution that aspires to excellence in each." 
The board's mission catalogs such obligations as promoting academic as well as athletic excel­lence, reviewing admissions data, tracking academic performance and serving as an ofTicial liaison between faculty members and the athletics department. 
In conformity with Notre Dame's strong academic tradition, the FBA holds high academic expectations for its student-ath­letes. Because prospects are only admitted to the University if they "demonstrate the capacity to earn a degree," the FBA expects all stu­dent-athletes to maintain the nec­essary number of courses and athlete is time management. 
"There are times before big tests and when assignments are due that gets you wondering where the time is going to come from," he said. "You can't stay up all night studying and then wake up for 6 a.m. practice." 
Dutile said student-athletes must manage their time and ell"ort in order to give their studies -as well as their sports -the neces­sary attention. 

But despite its high standards, the board recognizes the rigors of being a student-athlete and conse­quently provides support services required to meet these demands. 
"Notre Dame provides oul'itand­ing support for our student-ath­letes, not only through the help available to all students, but also through the Office of Academic Services for Student-Athletes," Dutile said. 
Student-athletes are provided with counselors who are regularly available to help foster efl'ective study habits, enforce time man­agement skills and monitor aca­demic performance. Tutors are also accessible to assist student­athletes. 
Academic Services for Student­Athletes Director and FBA mem­ber Pat Holmes said academic success is ultimately the responsi­bility of the student-athletes. 
"Our job is to not only support, but also to challenge," he said. "We want to develop both the stu­dent and the athletic side and maximize their potential ... and make sure they're getting the most out of [Notre Dame]." 
Dutile said he is confident in the ability of Notre Dame's student athletes to flourish in the class­room. 
"I am continually impressed by how many of our student-athletes compete well both in their sport and in the classroom," he said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 




Sign up for the SBC Student Plan 
SBC Yahoo! DSl Express + Your local Access line 
as low as 
$ 
75* 
a month for a g-month term! 
"OtM1 momMy clmrge; appi';. 

Taxes, other charges and the federal Unive&l Service Fund con-recovery fee extra. For details of additional charges, restrictions and requirl?meots, call1·866·4n~7965 toll-free or visit sbc.comlu. SBC, the sselogo and other SBC product names are tradematks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, t.P. and/or its 3ffiliat.es. All other lfademarks and servke marks are the property of their respective Qwners. ©2oos SBl: Knowledge Ventures, l. P. All lights reserved. IN 
' 
' ' 

Monday, October 3, 2005 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
Recording industry -wants to curb piracy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The recording industry and copyright experts urged Congress on Wednesday not to intervene with legislation to curb online piracy of music or movies after a recent ruling from the Supreme Court. 
The unanimous decision from the high court in June cleared the way for the film and music industry to file piracy lawsuits against tech­nology companies caught encouraging customers to steal copyrighted material. 
At Wednesday's hearing, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter said some language in the ruling cast doubt on what the standards are for illegal use. and he asked whether legislation might be neces­sary. 
The overriding answer from the two panels repre­senting the recording indus­try, copyright experts and entrepreneurs was "no" ­at least in the short terrr1. 
"My own preference would be to see how courts deal with this [decision] at this point in lime." Marybeth Peters. register of copy­rights at the U.S. Copyright Office. told the committee. "That could better inform any legislative fix." 
The recording industry also encouraged lawmakers to wait. 
Cary Sherman. president of the Recording Industry Association of America, said the court's decision in the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios v. Grokster case has provided everyone with clarity -from those who make the music and movies to those who make the soft­ware to access the works. 
Sherman said the court ruling has helped focus attention on illegal down­loading of music, especially on college campuses. He said nearly 70 schools now have deals with legitimate online music services. a more than threefold increase from last year. 
Marty Roe of the country group Diamond Rio told the Senate committee that artists can't earn a living when makers of file-sharing software. like Grokster, allow for copyrighted music to be shared online with millions of people for free. He said estimates suggest that Nashville has lost near­ly half of its songwriters bocause of online piracy. 
Prior to the Grokster rul­ing, entertainment compa­nies estimated that online thieves traded 2.6 billion songs. movies and other dig­ital files each month. 
Rapper's albutn tackles issues 
Slug takes on personal demons, earns 'emo-rapper' label andfemale fans 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS -The title of Atmosphere's new album is "You Can't Imagine How Much Fun We're Having." The rappers. it seems. are being sarcastic. 
It's hard to think otherwise after a few spins of songs that cover tor­tured father-son relationships. America's over-reliance on antide­pressants and the 2003 murder of a 16-year-old fan after an Atmosphere show in Albuquerque. 

"I thought I was making a happi­er record than I was," said Slug. the 33-year-old mastermind behind the Minneapolis-based 
group. "It wasn't "It wasn't until the nating source of fas­until the end of the end ofthe day that cination. confusion. day that I realized, regret and scom. 
I realized. you 
you know. this 'Tm over 30,
know. this record is 

record is kind of can't maintain rela­dark." kind ofdark" tions. all these A fixture for women wanna hurt almost a decade in me and I just don't 
Slug

the underground have the patience. I 
rapper

rap scene. Slug's can't trust 'em and 
kids that I don't know but they know me. I've learned that I'm into it -I have a thing for it," said Slug, whose real name is Sean Daley. "I try to end up steering it. instead of into a fandom thing, into more of a faux-mentorship or whatever." 
Mainstream hip-hop is often ciit­icized for glamorizing violence and wealth and objectifying women. The first two are of little interest to Slug, who's more likely to be sport­ing a black T-shirt than bling. But when it comes to women. things get a little more complicated. The topic of many of Atmosphere's songs. women to Slug are an alter­

forays into his con­flicted psyche have brought greater commercial success with each release. As the latest pre­pares to launch t11e first week in October, Atmosphere-after years of touring and new distribution by the Los Angeles punk label Epitaph Records -is poised to find an even larger audience among young fans who seek out music that reflects issues in their own lives. 
"When it comes to dealing with 
they're not much help. when they start to push and pull the buttons I don't trust myself.'' Slug raps in the new song "little Man." 
Despite-or perhaps because of -Slug's professions of vulnerabili­ty. he has built up a large female following. 
Slug's interest in tackling his demons has gotten him labeled by some as an "emo-rapper," tying him to emo-rockers like Death Cab for Cutie and Dashboard Confessional. which have landed scores of teenage and young adult fans with their nakedly confession­allyrics. 

"It's real live stuff. not trying to rap about a fake life.'' said Nate Kranz. head booker at the famed Minneapolis nightclub First Avenue. a regular stop for Atmosphere. "It's songs t11at me. you. anybody can identify witl1." 
Atmosphere has also gotten a boost from being in heavy rotation on Minnesota Public Radio's new alternative music station, The Current. and its popular Webcasl<>. The station debuted in January with the band's "Say Sllh." 
It's earned Atmosphere followers that diverge from the usual hip­hop fan base. Oty Pages. the Twin Oties' alternative newspaper. once put it blimtly: "Atmosphere is hip­hop for people who don't like hip­hop." 
But. even though he eschews many of its conventions. Slug's relationship to hip-hop is nearly as complicated as his relationship with women. The son of a white mother and a black father who divorced when he was a teenager. ~ug spent his yout11 idolizing rap­pers like KRS-One and LL Cool J. 
"Me and my friends. we were like Trekkies about it.'' Slug said. 'We were fanatics. I still collect every ... book that comes out about hip-hop. When I was a kid and if KRS-One or Chuck D even men­tioned a book -even if it wasn't about hip-hop -I ran out and read it." 

Monday, October 03, 2005 

page 10 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Michael Suchanick: Multi-Linguist Kung Fu Artist* Karaoke King Is Welcome Here 
Your life. You can bring it with you. Learn more about Michael and tell us more about you visit pwc.com/bringit 

*connectedthinking 

.....____________________________ 
page 11

Monday, October 3, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Boat overturns in lake, killing 21 
New York cruise capsizes, sends additional two dozen seniors to hospital 
Associated Preu 
I.AKE GEOHGE. N.Y.-A boat carrying tourists on a s<~nior citizens· cruise ov<~r­turned Sunday on a lake in upstate New York. killing at least 21 people and sending more than two dozen others to a hospital. 
Authorities W(~re investigat­ing whether a large passing tour boat created a wake that caused the accident. Warren County Sheriff Larry Cleveland said. 
The 40-foot. glass-enclosed Ethan Allen capsized around 3 p.m. on Lake George about 50 miles north of Albany in the Adirondack Mountains. 
The accident apparently happened so fast that none of the passengers was able to put on a life jacket. Cleveland said. 
Patrol boats that reached the scene within minutes found other boaters already pulling people from the water. All passengers had been accounted for within two hours: 
Tw£mty-seven people were taken to a hospital in nearby Glens Falls. All of the injured were cold and wet, some with broken ribs and some com­plaining of shortness of breath. Five people were to be admitted, hospital spokE!Srnan Jason White said. 
The 21 bodies were laid out along the shore. and the scene was blocked off by police with tarps. The Ethan Allen lay at the bottom of the lake in 70 feet of water. 
At the time of the accident. the weather was clear and in the 70s. The water tempera-ture was 68 degrees. 

"This was as cairn as it gets," said Jerry Thornell. a former Lake George Park Commission patrol officer and a lake enforcement officer for the county sheriff's depart­ment. 
Representatives of Shoreline Cruises. which operates the boat, could not immediately be reached for comment. 
The boat's owner. Jim Quirk, whose family has oper­ated Shoreline Cruises for decades. told the Glens Falls Post-Star: "It is a tragedy and it's very unfortunate." 
The boat was carrying a 
tour group from Canada, Cleveland said. A language barrier was slowing the process of notifying victims' families. 
"Nothing of this magnitude has ever happened," state police Superintendent Wayne Bennett said. "It's unprece­dented." 
As dusk fell, several police boats were on the water, and at least half a dozen divers were in a small cove on the west side of the lake. 
Cleveland said the captain, who was well known and well liked by law enforcement offi­cials. survived. He was the only crew member aboard. 

Want to cough, run a fever, have fatigue and feel miserable for 10-21 days this winter? Then DON'T get a flu shot! But if you'd like at least an 85% chance of preventing it, then wash your hands frequently, don't share eating or drinking utensils, and get the free flu vaccine!. 
Free Flu Shots 
Joyce Center Concourse 
Enter Gates 1 or 2 
TO 
HIGH..RISK Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, retirees & their spouses (NO 10 card required) 
(High fisk is defined as those age 65 or older, those with a history of long-term health problems such as heart or tung disease. diabetes, anemia, or weakened immune system, pregnant, healthcare workers, or caregivers of child< 6 months of age.)
• 
on 
Tuesday, October 4th 9am -4pm 
---------------------------AND ------------------------­
ANY Notre Dame student, faculty, staff, retiree & their spouse (NO 10 card required) on 
Wednesday and Thursday, October 5 and 6 
9am -4pm Offered by University Health Services and the Office of Human Resources. 
If you have questions regarding the immunization, please call 631-7497. 
Hurricane halllpers Jewish celebrations 
Still, many displaced Jews
Associated Press 

say the pain of having lost 
everything will only be com­
Bad luck keeps following pounded by observing sacred Stephen Richer. rituals among strangers. 
Last year at the start of "I think the word is bitter­Rosh Hashana. a hurricane sweet." said Buth Kullman. evacua~ion sent him and a president of Touro cantor at his tiny Biloxi. Synagogue in New Orleans, a Miss., synagogue on an Reform congregation that 
odyssey across the state to find a congre­"It's hard to gation where 
predict. Some 
they could 

people have said 
mark the 

Jewish New they're not going to Year. come back ... Some 
This year. as 

people have 
the High Holy Days begin 

alreadtJ returned." 
Monday night, Richer will 

Eric Stillman 
once again be 

executive director 
searching for a 

Jewish Foundation of
spiritual home. His Conservative New Orleans 
synagogue, Congregation 
Beth Israel, is one of many across the Gulf Coast that have been shuttered by extensive damage from Hurricane Katrina. 
''I'm very happy to have this year over," Richer said. "We've had a lot of tragedy." 
The 10-day period of repentance and renewal. among the most important in the Jewish calendar. arrives as Jewish evacuees are scat­tered throughout the country, their homes destroyed, their jobs gone and their future unclear. 
Victims say the generosity of religious leaders in cities where they've sought refuge has helped ease discomfort about celebrating the holi­days in an alien environ­m e n t . Orthodox Jews have was damaged and will not reopen for the holiday period. which ends with Yom Kippur. the 
Day  of  
Atonement.  
Kullman.  her  

husband and her 93-year-old mother-in-law fled to Memphis where Kullman's sister lives. "We're all so grateful to be here and togeth­er. We're just sad 

that we can't be celebrating the way we always had," she said. 
Jewish leaders don't know when-if ever-their com­munities will reunite. 
About 10,000 Jews lived in the New Orleans area and Eric ·stillman. executive director of the Jewish Federation of Greater New Orleans. has been trying to track them. Working out of the Jewish Federation of Greater Houston, he has con­tacted about 1,400 of the 3,600 families who were in his organization's database. Synagogue leaders have started their own online lists. but many families still have not been reached. 
"It's hard to predict," said 
Stillman. who fled 
New Orleans with 
his wife and two 
children. "Some

found housing "I'm very happy to 
for evacuees people have said
have this year over. 
near congre-they're not going gations so We've had a lot of to come back.... they can tragedy... Some people have 
observe the already Jewish prohi­returned." 
Stephen Richer
bition against Those able to driving on the hurricane victim get home have High Holy Days. One Florida rabbi packed his Cessna with kosher meat and cheese. Sabbath candles and challah and flew the supplies to Biloxi. where members of Beth Israel may hold services at a military base. Other Jewish groups have sent prayerbooks. while Baptist. Roman Catholic and Unitarian churches have offered space for services. 
Mothers and adolescents needed for study on parenting and mom/child relationships. Informal study entails 2 at home visits lasting 2 hrs or less each and permission to audiotape some responses. $50 compensation. For further information, please email Elizabeth at ewebster@nd.edu or call after 9 p.m. at 
313-303-4691 
found their syna­
gogues with 

smashed roofs. shattered windows. flooded basements. and mold and mildew growing in sanctuar­ies. As Katrina battered the region, anxiety spread among Jewish leaders about the Torah scrolls inside the buildings. The scrolls. which Jews believe contain the word of God. are the holiest objects in Judaism. 
About a week following the storm, a caravan of Jewish volunteers, accompanied by armed officers from outside New Orleans. went into the city to retrieve the scrolls. Some members of the mis­sion had to swim through floodwater to reach their buildings, but all the Torahs were retrieved intact. 
Stillman drove about a dozen of the Torahs to Houston, where they will be used in worship over the next 10 days. Rabbis and cantors from New Orleans area congregations will be leading some of the services in college auditoriums. churches and other sites around the region. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, October 3, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
America's pastime heats up 
P.O. Box n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Par Leonard .,Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROllER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 

(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisuarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and musr include contact informacion. 
~stioru regarding Oburverpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObSttvt"r (USPS ~99 2~4000) i• publi1~ Munday rhrnuglt Friday excepr Juring exam mJ vacarion periods. A lubu:riprion to The Olll!crvtr i• $100 fur (lilt' a~ic year. $55 for one;: ~emarcr. 
Th~! Observer u published ;u: POSTMASTER 
1124 South Diuing Hall ~nd at.idrol oorn;ctiom to; Notre Dame, IN 4655U..0?79 ThcOb~~ervcr 1\.'&"todn;al po~ragc paid at Nouc Dame: P.O. Bux771J 
and additmnal mailing offica. U24 South Dinins HaJJ Notlt: lbmc, lN 46$~6-Q779 
The Observer iJ a rmmbcr of the Associm:d JlttH. 'All rrproduaion righn arc ..,.,.,cd. 
TODAY'S STAFF. 
News Sports Nicole Zook Kate Gales Kelly Meehan Chris Khorey Megan O'Neil Anna Fricano 
Viewpoint Scene Laura Soon Molly Griffin Graphics Graham Ebetsch 
As October rears its Jack-0-Lantern Head, we all realize what is coming up right around the bend: baseball playoffs. Yes, those 150+ games your team logged all through the spring and summer? They don't really mean much, not when the playoffs come to town. Hopefully your team won enough of those games to earn a slot amongst the select few who will be shagging flies as the leaves turn. If they didn't, you'll get them next year, you always will. But if they did, it 
doesn't matter if they Will Write for won 148 or just a Food shade over half of them; because all bets are off when it's time to play for keeps. 
As always, the Braves are in the play­offs, winning their 14th straight division title. Of course, the Braves are only pok­ing their heads into the party that is the playoffs to say "Hi" before exiting in the second round; they've got a thing that they need to do. And then you've got the Padres, a team that everybody looks at and says, "Really? These guys made the playoffs? But they almost lost more games than they won. Is this a joke? Where's the hidden camera?" Yes, the Padres are in the playoffs. and even they aren't exactly sure why. 
The Anaheim Angels At Los Angeles Who Play At Anaheim Despite Stating That They're From Los Angeles clinched their division as well, with Vladimir Guerrero leading the charge. There are a lot of questions surrounding this base­ball team. Will the pitching hold up? Can they score the runs when they need to? Why is the Dominican star of the team named Vladimir? But that's the beauty of the playoffs; we always find answers to our questions, except that last one. That just doesn't make any sense. 

The White Sox have clinched their division finally, preventing a meltdown that would make Three Mile Island look like a glow stick. Of course, with a play­off spot in possession, NOW they decide to start winning games, shooting down the Cleveland Indians' wild card hopes like it is target practice. And as always, the St. Louis Cardinals cruised into the playoffs. If I'm not mistaken, I believe that they clinched their division some­time in the B.C. period, shortly after the Cenozoic Era. They didn't have a magic number to win the division because they hadn't been invented yet. 
Of course, nobody cares about those teams right now, we only care about the spots on the dance card that as of now are still unfilled. As I pen this, the play­off chase has reached epic proportions, with the Houston Astros and the Philadelphia Phillies racing for the final spot in the National League. The New York Yankees clinched their division and a playoff spot, preventing George Steinbrenner from biting Joe Torre's ear off, and the Red Sox and Indians are playing to grab that last American League Wild Card. 
With that in mind, I desperately need the Indians to grab that final playoff position like the last chicken wing at Kirstie Alley's house. I can't take anoth­er year of "Red Sox-Yankees: This Series Is Bigger Than Every Other Series, Ever, Including The One They Had Last Year That We Said Was The Biggest Ever. This One's Bigger." Whenever these two teams meet, it's like the world stops spinning o s axis and the other 28 teams in th• vtajor Leagues just fade into the dista.nce along with everything else. "What's that? A cure for cancer? No time, Jason Giambi is adjusting his cup." "You don't say, we found Osama bin Laden in an Oklahoma Hardee's? Can he hit a slider. because Unfrozen Caveman Johnny Damon can." 

I hoped that the Red Sox World Series win last year would blow ofT some of the hype around this match-up, but it's only exacerbated it. Before, it was Hocky Balboa against Ivan Drago, the Hussian boxer capable of killing Carl Weathers with his bare hands. Now the Hed Sox have cut the Yankees, and we all can see that they're not a machine, they can be beat! The Hed Sox fans are extra excited because they don't want to lose the sweet taste of winning, and the Yankees are pumped because they have something to prove. I can't take these games, and certainly not when there's a trophy at stake. 
If the Hed Sox manage to get the American League Wild Card. the play­oft's become a two team show; every other game is simply a prelude to Yankees-Hed Sox, a match-up we'll be lead to believe is bigger than Moses­Egyptians. 
By the time you read this, the entire playoff picture will be complete, with the Bed Sox or Indians filling in the last spot. Either way, we'll never know why the heck his name is Vladimir. 
Peter Schroeder is a senior English major. As for plans after graduation. he's open to suggestions. He can be con­tacted at pschroed@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Discussion of gay rights 
I'm more than willing to grant Jacob Zipfel's suggestion that the anti-homosexual passages in the Bible are still rele­vant. Not that I necessarily agree with his analysis, but when it comes to the issue of legalizing gay marriage, whether the Bible says homosexuality is wrong or not is irrelevant. Heligious justifications for discrimination are never ade­quate. The secular reasoning Mr. Zipfel hides in the middle of his discussion of demagoguery, however, leaves much to be desired. 
Mr. Zipfel suggests that "Homosexuals do have the exact same rights as heterosexuals. A man can marry a woman, and a woman can marry a man ... What the gay rights move­ment is attempting to do is to create a new right. Redefining marriage to allow same sexes is to change the very definition of what marriage has historically been." Certainly, however, this is equivalent to claiming before interracial marriage was legal because even people attracted to members of different races had equal rights, everybody had the right to marry a person of the opposite gender and the same race. Don't like the analogy to race? How about going back even further to a truly traditional definition of marriage, that is, when you could only marry within your socioeconomic class? Certainly, it is absurd to claim those who were attracted to members of a different social class had the same rights then. After all, everybody could marry someone of the opposite gender, pro­vided that they were of the same race and same class. There is no notion, then, of creating new rights for homosexuals 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for the football bye week? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
here, merely extending marriage to allow greater equality under the law, just as has been done repeatedly in the past. 
Mr. Zipfel then suggests that the logical extension of the argument for same-sex rparriage, that is. that there must be some check on the majority to allow for basic freedoms, is to allow NAMBLA the legalization of sex with 6 year old boys (I have to admit, a month and a half ago I never thought I'd be discussing NAMBLA in my first editorial letter). There are a few fundamental differences. Mr. Zipfel is right that majority rule in America, or any "democracy" is essential to stopping NAMBLA's claims. The exception to majority rule, however, comes when enforcing the will of the majority has such a dis­parate impact that it limits the fundamental rights of the minority. Allowing gay marriage has no significant negative social impacts, while disallowing it blatantly tells homosexu­als they are inferior and treats them as such. NAMBLA's claims, on the other hand, have considerable social impacts, certainly, at least, on the 6-year-old boy who is unable to fully consider the impacts of having sex with a full-grown man. 
So there you have it, Mr. Zipfel, respectful discussion of the issues at hand. Let's have at it. 
Andrew Nesi 
freshman 
Morrissey 
Oct. 2 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There is more hunger for love and appreciation in this world than for bread. " 
Mother Teresa of Calcutta humanitarian 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Monday, Occober 3, 2005 
-page 13 
U-Wire 
Put DeLay away 
The I louse of Hepresentatives just lost its idiot: Hepublican and former I louse Majority Leader Tom DeLay. 
DeLay, who represented Texas in the I louse, was charged with conspiring to use corporate money for Hepublican candidates in a state election. The representative had to resign temporarily as the llouse majority leader. Jed 
CNN said that DeLay called this fiasco the Pressgrove result of blatant political partisanship. Funny that he would say that, since DeLay is known for The ReJlector his rigid conservatism. MissL~sippi 
Whether the congressman is guilty or not is State anybody's guess right now, but when you look at University DeLay's stances and his history, the evidence points to guilty. 
Coincidentally, this man charged with using money illegally in an election has opposed attempts to reform campaign finance. The Texas Observer said he may be the staunchest opponent of campaign linance reform. 
Not only that, DeLay's view of money takes away from his plea of innocence with his quote from the Congress Daily: "Money is not the root of all evil in politics. In fact, money is the lifeblood of politics." When I read that, I couldn't decide whether I had read the words of a man who loves his country or the wisdom of a gangster. 
Obviously, if DeLay believes money must run politics and that evil can't spring from it. we might see the congressman serving a couple of years in jail soon. 
And if that does happen, Americans should rejoice because [)(~Lay is a man with skewed priorities. 
or course, I mainly laugh at his Neanderthal gargling of phlegm. C:NN and FoxNews provided me with DeLay's gameplan in the court: "My defense in this case will not be technical or legalistic. It will bP categorical and absolute." 
What is he talking about? It doesn't matter what you believe in a court. Courts work within a legal system; you must be legalistic in your case. DeLay should be lobotomized. 
/\!though I don't mean to downplay DeLay's unfortunate dumb­ness, his arrogant statements and disregard for the American peoplP shine through his expensive clothes as well. 
Th(! Nnw York Times reported that after being asked by a waiter not to smoke on government property (in accordance with a no smoking policy), DeLay said, "I am the federal government." This guy should have been removed from his position a long time ago. 
Perhaps DeLay had a significant role in Bush's tax cuts favoring the rich. as some say. lie would not extend the president's tax cuts to thosn who make between about $10,500 and $26,500, accord­ing to wikipedia.org. 
llownvnr, we can only hope that DeLay will be eonvicted. Maybe he didn't do it, or maybe he can buy his way out if he did. You should just know that he's a roguish imbecile. 
This column originally appeared in the .";ept. 30 issue of The lle.flector. the daily publication at Mississippi State University. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Who is Justice Roberts? 
.John Hoherts is the 17th chief justice of the United States, and most of us barely know him. 
The W(!ather headlines overshad-
Editorial

owed Hobnrts' 
The Reflector 

confirmation 
Mississippi

hearings, 
Slate

and most 
University

people heard little about it. All of a sudden, William Hchnquist has been replaced before an uneducat­ed public. 
There wasn't much of a dis­agreement between Senators about Hobcrts, which voted him in by a 77-22 vote. llalf of the Democrats approved him. 
Even if the hurricane hadn't drawn our attention away from the confirmation hear­ings, we still probably would­n't know much about Roberts. lie's only been on the bench for two years, so he doesn't have an extensive history that we can dissect. 
Although he does seem to be more moderate than his forerunner, many of Hoberts' views line up with Hehnquist's. 
In other words, don't expect the court to change that much. We don't know what direction Hoberts will take the Supreme Court, but if he follows in Hehnquist's foot­steps, it won't drastically affect the court. 
However, the exciting nomi­nation will be the person who must replace Sandra O'Connor. Before that judge gets in, we should all try not to let anything lull us away from that appointment. 
Otherwise, we'll be taken otT-guard, and it will be far more serious than Hoberts' swearing in. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Sept. 30 issue of The Reflector, the daily publication at Mississippi State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Ho-w to save Detnocrats 
I'm jumping ship. No more Democrat or liberal bashing, no more endless conserva­tive Hepublican rants, and no more urges to throw things when you read my columns. 
I'm becoming one of you -I am now a lib­eral D~mocrat. Andrew My sister and her hus-Price band will now declare vic­tory, and quite possibly Daily Lobo throw a party or something. University of But I'm not only just join­New Mexico ing, I'm planning on being an active participant. To 
kick off, I've come up with a foolproof plan 
that will make us Democrats the dominant 
party in America. 
My plan is a little complicated, so you might want to grab a crayon and a tablet and take some notes. The first and most fun­damental change that we are going to make is that we are actually going to stand for something and abandon our long-time strat­egy of being against everything. I'm not just talking about the lip service we have always given -I'm talking about really standing for something. We have always pretended to be for the people, so let's go with that. You can't get much more fundamental than being the people's party. 
We have always been bottom-up, or grass­roots, fund-raisers, but unfortunately, we have been top down as far as the policies and politics we have claimed to stand for. Our leaders have been so far removed from the everyday person, it's no wonder we have so much trouble being successful. Since we are now grassroots, we are going to build up from our neighborhoods, our districts, our cities, our states and finally our country, and we are going to elect the people who best represent us personally in each respective venue. 
We are going to make them explain exactly what is in it for us individually if they are elected and what will it cost us. As Socrates taught, sane people will always act in their best interest in the end. We, being the peo­ple's party, are going to assume people are sane and know what's in their best interest. The decision made by the majority of indi­viduals acting in their best interest is, by . del'inition, in the best interest of the whole -put a little crayon star by that point. 
No longer will the so-called elite pat us, the people, on the head and tell us what is best for us. We are going to abandon the soft 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
bigotry of low expectations that our former leaders practiced. We are going to be repre­sented by the people who best represent us personally, not ambitious professional politi­cians. If I'm from New York. I want to be represented by someone from New York, not from California or Arkansas or wherever. 
We are going to truly separate religion from government. This includes earth and animal worshippers. If we want to sit on leather chairs and eat fried chicken, we are damn well going to do it. If there is any credible non-faith-based evidence that the tales of impending doom being preached by earth wo-rshippers are true, then of course we will follow our best interests and go with their suggestions. 
Until then, let's drill for oil on our own property and build regional refineries for gasoline. Do we really need 40 different blends of regular unleaded? They say unre­fined gas will kill sea turtles and the like, and I love sea turtles as much or more than the next guy, but I am not so arrogant as to think that anything that I do will destroy them. After all, they are pretty tough, and have been around a lot longer than us. Isn't it more dangerous for us to try and control natural selection and the survival of the fittest? 
Finally, since we arc only going to elect officials at all levels that we believe are going to act in our individual best interest, we need to unsubscribe to all polling compa­nies and fire the publicists. We don't need them anymore. We can dismantle the politi­cal war room, because our representatives will be so busy doing stuff for us that there will no longer be the need for their failed partisan schemings. 
Also, when we enter into political debates, we will first find out if the person with whom we are debating is an American citi­zen and if they arc registered to vote. Frankly, if he or she is a non-citizen or not registered to vote, they are too irresponsible to have a credible opinion. 
If my fellow Democrats will just follow my simple plan, I know it will change the world. 
This column originally aopeared in the Sept. 30 issue of the Daily Lobo, the daily publication at the University of New Mexico. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE ()BSERVER 
CENE

page 14 
Monday, October 3, 2005 
DPAC REVIEW 

The art of Celtic music 
Tommy Makem and the Makem Brothers blend tradition with musical innovation 


er, more traditional song. Their soundBy GRACE MYERS was dynamic in that they each played
Scene Writer 

different instruments and synthesized their diverse voices to fulfill each of the The performance of Tommy Makem song's particular moods. and the Makem Brothers was incredi­Undoubtedly, the act's greatestbly enjoyable. strength was their vibrant stage-pres­
The Leighton Concert Hall's audience ence. They obviously loved the music was a mixture of long-time Celtic music that they were playing, but also loved followers, musicians and aficionados, playing it with each other. They joked 
as well as many people who had almost around about being brothers, about no idea of what to expect. their hometown, alco­Tommy Makem and the hol, the Irish Catholics, Makem Brother's highly It was a lively and the game againstenergized performance was Purdue and Rudy. They
charming · 
engaging, fun and interest­essentially talked about
combination of
ing, even to the most inexpe­things that anyone at rienced audience member. It music and Notre Dame can appre­was a lively and charming ciate. It was evident
storytelling -a
combination of music and that, despite their line­
fine introduction to 
story telling -a fine intro­age of Irish musicians. duction to the Celtic music Celtic music. they have established a 
scene. new identity for them-The Makem Brothers -selves and have gainedShane, Conor and Rory Makem -their own unique appreciation for the 
along with Mickey and Liam Spain, music. performed first. The quintet began One of the best songs performed was with an upbeat number, which was one written by Conor Makem. It was 
similar to music that would be heard in slower and more eloquent, dealing a Celtic pub. They then introduced with the remembrance of one's historythemselves formally and played a slow-and culture, despite the progression of 
life and technology. It was interesting well-known classic songs. He told a to see him continue the making of and story or a joke before each song. He love for Irish music through a song that also made a point of giving a back­dealt with the continuation of tradition. ground to that song that helped to It was particularly poignant in lieu of explain what the song addresses, the fact that he is the son of a leg­which helped set the tone so that the endary Irish musi-audience could appreciate it cian. to a greater extent. He also 
After intermission, Undoubtedly the played numerous songs that Tommy Makem per­he had written, which were
act's greatest 

formed, with his son equally enjoyable. They dis­Rory on the guitar. strength was their played his great pride for the From the moment he vibrant stage history and culture of Ireland. walked onto the Celtic music is his means for
presence.

stage, if was obvious spreading this pride and incit­that Tommy Makem is ing interest, not only to his a legend and a pro. He also resembles sons but also to every audience for what one would expect a typical which he plays. Irishman to be. His first words to the Many times, he taught the audience audience were, "Is everybody sober?" the chorus of the song he was going to This indicated that his presence would sing, so that they could join in the display his fun-loving and endearing singing. There were a few songs that nature, while maintaining still retain­the audience sang along with while he ing the ability to engage the audience. stepped back from the microphone. It His thin frame and thick glasses did was an example of why Tommy Makem not hinder him from belting out the is a legend, and it showed his unique complicated lyrics or playing the banjo ability to pass on an interest and love with great technica.l ability. for the music he makes. 
He played an array of traditional songs including drinking songs, songs Contact Grace Myers at about war, children's songs and several gmyers2@nd.edu 



NSIDER 
O
THE 

Monday, October 3, 2005 BSERVER Notre Dame 49, Purdue 28 
Boiling hot 
Notre Dame defeats Purdue 49-28 as Quinn throws for 440 yards and three scores 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sport• Writer 
WEST LAFAYETTI~. Ind. ­
The Notre Dame offense explod­
ed Salu rday. propelling the 
team to a 49-28 victory over 
Purdue as quarterback Brady 
Quinn orchestrated an Irish 
attack that amassed 621 total 
ya1·ds and had the Irish on top 
2H-O at halftime. Quinn com· 
plnted 29-of-36 passes for 440 
yards and two touchdowns, set­
ting a new Notre Dame record 
for most 300-yard games in a 
snason. 
"I thought IQuinnl had an ~~xcept.ional game," Notre Dame head coach Charlie W1~is said. 
Wide receivers Jeff 
Samardzija and Maurice Stovall 
wnre Quinn's primary targets. 
Samardzija hauled in seven 
passes for 153 yards and two 
scores. while Stovall added 
night rewptions for 134 yards. 
"The n~cnivers made plays and made tlwm miss." Wcis said. "We got a lot of yards after catch. We're taking three yard passes and turning them into 10-. lfi-. 20-yard gains." 
Illustrating its offensive effi-. ciency. Notre Dame's only punt in tlw first half came al'ter its initial drive stal11~d at midfield. Thl' Irish scon~d a touchdown on four or their six first-half drives. 
Notre Dame pullod away in the s1~cond quarter after Irish ddensive tackle Trevor Laws blocked a 44-yard field goal attempt by Purdue kicker Ben Jones. The block set up a 73­yard driv1~ which ended in a 4­yard Samardzija touchdown catch. On Notre Dame's next possession, tailback Darius Walker. who finished the game with HO yards rushing on 23 carries, scored on a I 0-yard draw to put the Irish up by four touchdowns. 
Notre Dame opnn1~d the ganw's scoring on its second possession, which started from tlw Irish l!l-yard line and did not feature a singln third down. Samardzija made an athletic diving one-handed catch on a 41-yard scrambling pass from Quinn that gave Notn~ Dame first and goal from the !-yard line. On the next play. senior fullback Hash1m Powers-Neal took a handoff from Quinn into the end zone for the touchdown. 
Purdue responded with a long drive of its own. Tailback Kory Sheets carried tlw ball 3H yards down tho sideline before being knocked out at the 1-yard line by Irish cornerback Ambrose Wooden. 
Tlw Boliermakers looked 

poisP.d to even the score, but the Notre Dame defense forced another red zone turnover when senior linebacker Brandon lloyte jarred the ball loose from Purdue running back Jerrod Void on the following play. Cornerback Mike Richardson recovered the loose ball at the Notre Dame 2-yard line. 
"I guess that's sort of their 
M.O. this year," Notre Dame tight end Anthony Fasano said of the Irish defense. "They real­ly do well in the red zone when their back is up against the wall." 
The Notre Dame defense has forced seven turnovers in the red zone this season. 
The Irish offense capitalized on the takeaway with a 98-yard, 15-play drive that took 5:36 ofT the clock. Quinn completed 7 -of­9 passes for 99 yards during the possession. On fourth and goal from the 1, Powers-Neal found the end zone for the second time, bringing his season touch­down total to six. 
Weis was thrilled with the team's play in the first half. 
"I think that one quick out early in the game to [Stovall) we'd like to have back," Weis said. "But other than that it was a hell of a performance." 
Purdue's offense came to life in the second half and began to move the ball on the Notre Dame defense. Quarterback Brandon Kirsch hooked up with receiver Dorien Bryant for touchdowns on both of Purdue's first two second-half posses­sions. 
Kirsch finished the game 29­of-44 for 274 yards and added 

47 yards on the ground. Bryant 
had a career day. totaling 127 
yards on 14 receptions. 
Weis came away impressed 
with the Boilermaker offense. 
Purdue has added an option 
running game this season to 
complement its traditional high­
fiying passing attack. 
The Irish defense was proud 
of the way it handled Purdue's 
multi-faceted offense. 
"We knew we had to step up 
with the versatility Purdue was 
going to show us." Hichardson 
said. "And I'm just happy that 
we actually made the plays 
when we needed to." 
Late in the third quarter, 
Hichardson recorded another 
takeaway for the Irish. inter­
cepting Kirsch in the end zone. 
"I think it gives us the confi­dence," safety Tom Zbikowski said. "And I think offensively they're going to be worrying about that. When they get down to the one-yard line. it's not going to be an automatic touch­down." 
The Irish offense continued to roll in the second half. On Notre Dame's first drive, Quinn found Samardzija on a deep post that wont for a 55-yard touchdown. After making the catch. Samardzija managed to stay in bounds and then break four tackles on his way to the end zone -his second score on tlH~ night. 
"When you get those chances to make plays. you've got to make those plays because its going feed off into the coaches and the quarterback, and every­one is just going to have confi­dence," Samardzija said. 
Weis emptied his bench in the fourth quarter. giving Notrn Dame's reserves a chance to log minutes and gain experience. Backup quarterbacks David Wolke and Marty Mooney saw time. as did freshman offensive tackles Paul Duncan and Michael Turkovich. 
With 6:17 left in the game. tailback Travis Thomas carried the ball 10 yards for a touch­down. Wcis was impressed with the performance of the sncond­team offense. 
"I think that sooner or later you are going to have to play those guys," Weis said. "I was as happy as anything to have that second offense go down and score a touchdown." 
Notre Dame's other fourth quarter score came on a 22­yard play action pass from Quinn to tight end John Carlson. The touchdown was the first of Carlson's career. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Brady Quinn 

Quinn completed 29-of36 pass attempts for 440 yards and three toucluloums before being pulled early in the fourth quarter. 
stat of the game 
440 
The number of yards Brady Quinn passed for, his third 300-yard game of the season and second 400-yard game. 
play of the game 
Brandon Hoyte's forced fumble on the goal line 
The linebacker forced the turnover that led to a 98-yard Notre Dame scoring drive. · 

quote of the game 
"We thought sooner or later we were going to play a more complete game. which l thought this performance was." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 3, 2005 
report card 
quarterbacks: Quinn's numbers have 
A 
been nothing short of brilliant in his 
last three games. His 20-of-23 first 
half was one of the best performances by an Irish quarterback ever, despite Purdue's poor pass defense. 
8+ 
running backs: Walker did not get his fifth consecutive 100-yard game, but Powers-Neal looked strong in short 
yardage situations, and Thomas scored for the second consecutive week. 
A 
receivers: Samardzija and Stovall con­tinued to make the claim that they are among the top recievers in the nation. 
If it wasn't for one Stovall drop, Quinn might have had 500-plus yards. 
8+ 
offensive line: Playing in their first full game without center Bob Morton, the offensive line looked strong despite a 
lack of depth. Quinn had time to 
throw for most of the day. 
8 
defensive line: Laws and Abiamiri had quiet statistical games, and the quick drops from Kirsch didn't give the 
group enough time to get into the backfield in the second half when the 
game was out of reach. 
8 
linebackers: Boyte forced a big fumble that led to a 14-point swing and set the tempo for the rest of the game. However, 
when Purdue ran the option in the first 
half it took time for the unit to adjust. 
C-
defensive backs: Richardson had an interception, but quarterback Brandon Kirsch was able to pick apart 
the secondary when Purdue went to 
the pass in the second half. 
8+ 
special teams: Last week's special teams problems were nonexistent as the Irish blocked a field goal and con­verted on all seven extra points. 
A 
coaching: Weis was able to make the right play calls all day against a Purdue pass defense that he was expected to exploit. 
There was nothing Purdue's defense could do to contend with Weis' expertise. 
overall: The Irish looked explo­
sive on offense, but the team 
did give up 28 points and had 
3.28 

trouble adjusting to the pass. Quinn's performance alone is enough to be excited about. 
adding up the numbers 
Notre Dame's highest point total of the season, and the school's highest point 
49
total since a 52-20 victory over Boston College on Oct. 25, 1997. 
8 
Touchdown receptions on the season for wide receiver Jeff Samardzija. His eight touchdowns are 
only three shy of Derrick Mayes' total in 1994. 
Brady Quinn's passing yards against Purdue. So far this season, Quinn has 
440
thrown for 1,621 yards. 

2 8 7 
The number of receiving yards that Stovall and Samardzija combined for in Notre Dame's victory over Purdue. 
The number of yards Brady Quinn 
1564 
needs to pass Ron Pawlus for the Notre Dame career passing record. 
0 
Other quarterbacks in Irish history with three 300­yard games in one season, something Quinn 
accomplished Saturday. 
Purdue quarterback Brandon Kirsch's 
274 
passing yards against the Irish. Most of them came in the second half. 
2 
The number of 90-plus yard scoring drives the Irish put together in the first half of Saturday's 
game against Purdue. 


WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -There must have been a lot of eye-rubbing, head-shaking and antenna-adjusting -deja vu, to say the least-with about five minutes of play left in the first quarter of 
Saturday night's 49-28 Notre Dame romp over host Purdue. 
With the Irish holding an early 7-0 advantage, Purdue running 


back Kory Matt Puglisi Sheets took an option toss from Associate quarterback Sports Editor Brandon Kirsch and sprinted 38 yards down the right sideline, fully expecting-along with the 62,500 in attendance -to put the Boilermakers on the board with the game-tying score. 
But Sheets forget about Ambrose Wooden. 
After setting up a game-changing fumble against Michigan Sept. 17 by catching and knocking Wolverine receiver Jason Avant out of bounds at the 1-yard line, for the second time this season, the Irish corner­back raced down what appeared to be a sure-touchdown gallop, push­ing Sheets out inches from the goal line. And once again, the Irish turned the effort-laden play into a red zone turnover. 
Oftentimes, plays like Wooden's serve as prime examples for the kind of intensity players should bring on each and every play ­ideal film room footage for coaches stressing the importance of unwa­vering exertion -but the end results seem to diminish the effort. 
Nine times out of 10, Purdue run­ning back Jerod Void punches the ball into paydirt on the next play. But this wasn't those first nine times. It was that one-out-of-1 0 that can change the complexity of the game, plant seeds of doubt in the opponent and most importantly, give the defense that confidence and little bit of swagger to do it again the next time. 
"Seems like every time [the oppo­nent] gets down in the red zone in a critical situation, [the defense] comes up and makes a play," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
While the Notre Dame defense has been vulnerable to the air attack all season-the Irish surrendered 327, 408 and 350 passing yards against Michigan State, Washington and Purdue, respectively, in their last three contests-they continue to make the big plays when they need them, most notably in the red zone, where the Irish have created five turnovers this season. 
The unit was up to old tricks Saturday night, forcing a trio of turnovers inside its own 30-yard line. 
With an offense clicking on all cylinders, the Irish may not have needed those three turnovers. 
"We scored 49," Weis said. "I don't know how much different the game would have been." 
But while the red zone defense may not have been the single key to victory Saturday, it certainly was against Michigan, and will undoubt­edly play a major role in Notre Dame's success-or lack thereof­when powerhouses including No. 1 USC and No. 8 Tennessee come to town in the next month. 
Not only do those goal line stands keep the opposition out of the end zone, but they can also give an already-potent Notre Dame offense that extra confidence that a three­and-out isn't cause for panic-a recipe for an offensive explosion. 
Cornerback Mike Richardson's goal line fumble recovery set the tone for the contest early in the first quarter and his leaping interception in the right corner of the end zone midway through the third quarter­immediately following a Purdue interception of its own -returned the momentum to the Irish. 
"The interception was big," Richardson said. "I knew they were going to come back with a big play after they got their play on defense, and I just knew our defense had to make a big play first. They actually ran that play in a previous game and got a big gain on it, so I knew that it was coming." With Purdue driving late in the third quarter, a crucial Boilermaker turnover on downs just inside the Notre Dame 30-yard line ended any hopes of a dramatic comeback. 
The true "bend but not break" defense hasn't gone unnoticed. 
"Were starting to make a little trademark on it," Irish safety Tom Zbikowski said. "As long as we know we have a yard or two or stand with, were going to make something happen." 
Yet, as effective as the Irish have been with their backs against the · end zone, there isn't a single, over­riding reason for their success in do-or-die red zone situations. 
"It's hard to pinpoint what exactly it is," Zbikowski said. "I guess we're taking over a characteristic of our defensive coordinator [Rick Minter] teaching us and making sure we keep people out of the end zone." 
Richardson pointed to an intangi­ble as the root of the gritty, backs­to-the-wall defense. 
"It's just instinct," Richardson said. 
Whatever the force behind the inspired defensive play, the Irish certainly expect to carry it the rest of the season. 
"We try to be tough every time we come out," Richardson said. "You can never be happy when you give up a lot of passing yards like that, but our main goal is to win the game, and that's what we focus on." 
And in the red zone, that's exactly what Notre Dame did. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Please contact Matt Puglisi at 

-----------------------------------------~ 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, October 3, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
• 
Quinn's solid play leads offense 

By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Associa!~ Sports Editor 
WI·Sr IAFAYETI'E. Ind. -Welcome to 
the upper echelon of college quarter­
backs. Brady Quinn. 
After Quinn's 29-of-36 passing, 440 
yards and three touchdowns -20-of-23 
in the first half-Saturday at Purdue, 
tho Irish quarterback has solidified his 
position as one of the elite passers in the 
nation. 
And for good reason. 

llis l3 touchdowns to three intercep­
tions this season show that Quinn is play­
ing up the expectations that were set for 
him upon his arrival two years ago as a 
highly-touted prospect from Dublin, Ohio. 
lie is completing 65.26 percent of his 
pass1~s. and his 1,621 yards passing place . him second in the nation behind Sam Keller of Arizona State, who has thrown for 1,790 yards in a traditionally pass­
first conference. 
Matt L1~inart. Vince Young, Chad !Jenne 
and Chris Leak? Quinn is trumping all 
four in passing yards and touchdowns. 
And most importantly, he is winning. 
and winning big. 
"When we go out there obviously we 
just have the mindset of keep putting 
points on the board," Quinn said. "That's 
one of our goals coming into the game. 
just allowing ourselves to keep our 
defense oil' the field." 
So far this season the Irish have done 
exactly that. 
With the exception of its 17-10 win at 
Michigan. Notre Dame has scored no fewer than 38 points in a game this sea­son. Notre Dame put up 42 against Pittsburgh. 41 in a loss against Michigan 
State,  38  against  
Washington and now  49  
against Purdue.  

"J really expected Brady to have a good game," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "This kid's a hard worker and it's important to him. Each week he has signs of evolving and getting better, and I thought today, I 
thought that was his best performance." 
After two years of adjusting to the col­lege game. Quinn has stepped up his play wlwn it has mattered most this season. 
I lis growth and maturity have extended from his ability to read a defense's pass coverage to his tendency to escape pass rushes to his overall control of the offense. 
And he looks as if he is doing it with relative ease. When considering some of the balls that Quinn threw Saturday, including the 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn commands the offense during Notre Dame's 49-28 win at Purdue Saturday. Quinn was 29-(}f-36 for 440 yards against the Boilermakers. 
ofT-balance toss to Jeff Samardzija that resulted in tho one-handed grab at tho Purd uc 1-yard line, it is clear that Quinn is playing with a new degree of confi­dence, almost willing balls into tight spots. 
An interception last year is a 30-yard first down this year. 
Following Saturday's win, Weis spoke 
about the number of plays 
that Quinn changed with 
audibles when he got to the
"Each week he has 
line of scrimmage. The
signs ofevolving 
mark of a mature quarter­and getting back, Quinn has shown leadership in his ability to
better and I 
take a run-pass option from 
thought today was 
his coach and go with what his best the situation calls for. 
performance." "We have a lot of plays in there that were run-pass option," Weis said. "I prob­
Charlie Weis 
ably called 15 more runs in Irish coach the game than we actually 
ran. And then Brady just 
picked them apart." 
Quinn points to Notre Dame's offensive line, running backs and receivers for his development this season. 
"You have to give a lot of credit to our wide receivers," Quinn said. "[Samardzija, Stovall,[ Shelton and Fasano, all those guys. Those are the guys who make me look good. 
"Everyone overlooks [the play of the oll'cnsive line.] Every time there is a big order to give credit to Weis, and his coach's lessons about playing quarter­back. 
"I think the biggest thing is his relation­ship," Quinn said. "He has taught me so many things about the quarterback posi­tion, how to run an offense, and be a leader. I think a lot of the things that made him successful in the NFL he's kind of brought down." 
But as quick as Quinn is to defer the attention away from himself and to credit those that surround him, his teammates are just as quick to throw the attention right back at the 6-foot-4 junior quarter­back. 
"lie's shown great improvement," tight end Anthony Fasano said. "He puts us in great situations on the line and in differ­ent calls. Our game plan going in each week is different and he really handles it well." 
Maurice Stovall, a senior receiver who has improved this year with Quinn's emergence, feels that his quarterback has grown as a player, and takes pride in the fact that the team is somehow partly responsible for this development. 
"We definitely take a lot of pride in it," Stovall said. "He plays a big part in our offense. We're going to be just as well as he is. 
"[If) he's having a great game, then we're going to be more efficient." After all, as Quinn goes -so docs the Notre Dame offense. 

statistical game like today you have to 
give the 0-line credit." Contact Bobby Griffin at He also pushes aside his own play in rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Samardzija four scores away from record 
Derrick Mayes holds the Irish record for most touchdowns 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sport> Writer 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.­With his two touchdown recep­tions Saturday, Jell' Samardzija uppl'd his season total to eight. The rn1:civer currently leads the nation in touchdown catch­es, along with Bowling Green wideout Steve Sanders. 
"Samardzija seems to find the end zone, so I guess I should throw to him more often," Wcis said. 
Samardzija is the first player in program history to record a touchdown reception in each of the first live games of the sea­son. lie is the first Notre Dame receiver since Malcolm Johnson to scorn in five consecutive gamns. 
Johnson had six straight games with a touchdown reception in 1998. 
Samardzija is only four touchdown receptions away from breaking the Notre Dame single-season record for touch­down receptions set by Derrick Mayes in 1994. 
Morton stays out 
Starting center Bob Morton, who went down with an injury against Washington, was avail­able Saturday, but did not sec the field. 
Weis held Morton out in order to allow the senior to more fully recover before the Oct. 15 match-up with No. 1­ranked USC. 
"lie was ready to go," Weis said. "But I told him that I wanted to hold him from this game ifl could. 
"lie got himself ready to play, but I was happy we didn't have to usc him." 
John Sullivan started at cen­ter in Morton's place. 
Quinn sets more records 
With 440 passing yards, Brady Quinn has become the first Notre Dame quarterback to throw for more than 300 yards in three consecutive games. 
Quinn passed for 487 yards against Michigan State and 327 yards at Washington. 
Quinn's 283 lirst-half passing yards was also a program best. Quinn now has thrown for 6,038 yards in his career. 
He is only the third signal­caller in Notre Dame history to reach the 6,000-yard mark. Steve Bourlcin recorded 6,527 yards from 1983-86. 
Hon Powlus, the current director of personnel develop­ment for the football program, holds the all-time record with 7,602 passing yards from 1994­97. 
Weis creature of habit 
Weis commented that many of the plays called Saturday grew out of the New York Giants' offense of the late 1980s and early 1990s. 
Weis began his NFL coaching career with Bill Parcells' Giants in 1990. 
''I'm a trained pig," Weis said. "I just go with what I know." 
Irish move up in polls 
With the win. Notre Dame moved up to No. 12 in both the AP and USA Today polls. They were previously No. 13 and 14, respectively. 
Game has record crowd 
The attendance at the game Saturday was 65,491. It was the largest crowd in Ross-Ade Stadium since its renovation in 2003. 
Captains 
Saturday's captains were Quinn on offense. Brandon Boyte on· defense and Chase Anastasio on special teams. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
•

scoring suininary 
1st 2nd :~rd 4th Notre Dame 7 28 7 14 
-
Purdue 0 0 14 14 
First quarter 
Notre Dame 7. Purdue 0 Rashon Powers-Neal1-yard run with 8:54 remaining. (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 7 plays, 90 yards, 2:26 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 14. Purdue 0 Powers-Neal1-yard run with 14:16 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 15 plays, 98 yards, 5:36 elapsed Notre Dame 21. Purdue 0 Jeff Samardzija 4-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 6:24 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 13 plays, 73 yards, 5:29 elapsed Notro Dame 28, Purdue 0 Darius Walker 10-yard run with 2:57 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 5 plays, 63 yards, 2:23 elapsed 
Third quarter _,. Notre Dame 28, Purdue 7 Darien Bryant 18-yard reception from Brandon Kirsch with 11:31 remaining. (Ben Jones kick) Drive: 12 plays, 85 yards, 3:29 elapsed Notre Dame 35, Purdue 7 Jeff Samardzija 55-yard reception from Quinn with 8:48 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 6 plays, 80 yards, 2:43 elapsed Notre Dame 35. Purdue 14 Bryant 3-yard reception from Kirsch with 6:37 remaining. (Jones kick) Drive: 10 plays, 80 yards, 2:11 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 42, Purdue 14 John Carlson 22-yard reception from Quinn with 11:31 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 9 plays, 74 yards, 3:30 elapsed 
Notre Dame 42, Purdue 21 Kory Sheets 5-yard run with 8:58 remaining. (Jones kick) Drive: 10 plays, 80 yards, 2:33 elapsed 
-
Notre Dame 49. Purdue 21 Travis Thomas 10-yard run with 6:17 remaining. (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 6 plays, 45 yards, 2:41 elapsed 
Notre Dame 49. Purdue 28 Kory Sheets B-yard run with 1:52 remaining. (Jones kick) Drive: 7 plays, 54 yards, 0:55 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
... ' ......... .. 
~


Ita·'·-= 
passing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 

_.
~ 
passing 

...
Quinn 29-36-1 Kirsch 29-44-1 
rushing 
6-66

Walker 23-80 Sheets 

receiving  
Stovall Samardzlja Shelton  8-134 7-153 7-68  Bryant Ingraham Noel  14-127 7-91 3-41  
Powers-Neal  3-35  Challams  3-22  

tackling 

Richardson 9 Hall 8 Wooden 7 Pollard 8 
Monday, October 3, 2005

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

Notre Dame knew that in many ways it was playing its biggest game of 
the season's first half coming off a blowout win at Washington, and that is exactly what the Irish got as Brady Quinn completed 29-of-36 passes for 440 yards in the 49-28 victory over Purdue. Notre Dame linebacker 
-Brandon Hoyte forced a big turnover when Purdue was on the Irish 2­yard line, which set up a 98-yard scoring drive. The 14-point swing was all the Irish needed to control the rest of the game, scoring 21second quarter points and taking a comfortable 28-0 lead into the half. Jeff Samardzija continued his storybook season, totalling seven catches for 153 yards and two touchdowns, including one in which he broke four tackles before sprinting down the sideline into the end zone. Notre Dame again had trouble defending the pass, and Purdue was able to exploit that when quarterback Brandon Kirsch came out throwing in the second half. In the end, the Irish offense was too much, as the unit put up 621 total yards and won the time of possession battle 36:03 to 23:57. 



... 
Leo Ferrine makes a tackle on Purdue receiver Dorien Bryant, top left. Mike Richardson attempts to break up a pass, top right. Rashon Powers-Neal breaks a run outside, middle. John Carlson catches a touchdown pass in the fourth quarter, bottom right. Brady Quinn throws a screen pass in Notre Dame's 49-28 win. 



THE ()BSERVER 

CENE
Monday, Ocwber 3, 2005 
page 15 
DPAC REVIEW 

'Last Days' depicts rock star's final hours 

WTF: WE TASTE Fooo 
The Fondue! offers unique dining experience 
By JONATHAN RETARTHA Scene Critic 
In "Last Days." Gus Van Sant offers a stunning portrait or humanity.in his dqJiction of' a rock star's final hours. 
T lw l'i I m surrounds a rock star nanH•d Blakn (Michael Pitt). a drug addict who spends his time at his poor­ly k!•pt mansion wandering around, passing out, fumbling with music, dressing up in women's clothing and occasionally going on trips into the woods. Blake's friends or groupies comP and go, but most ol' the f'ilm is Cl'nWr·p,d upon Blake's everyday activi­ties. 
While Van Sant never explicitly describes Blake as a direct refer­
"Elephant." For once to Kurt Last Days Van Sant, it is Cobain. the simi­
impossible and larities are strik­unnecessary to ing enough to give try and under­the correct stand the psyche impn~ssion with­Director: Gus Van Sant of such socially out Van Sant hav­Writer: Gus Van Sant polarizing people. ing to say so. Starring: Michael Pitt, Lucas Haas, Asia Therefore, Van 
Blake is clearly Argento, Scott Green channeling Cobain in his appearance and performance, with the straggly blonde hair. cutoff jeans and flannel shirt that were signatures of the former Nirvana front man who committed suicide on April 5, 1994 after battling a long addiction to 
cocaine. 
What makes "Last Days" different from other rock biopics or programs like "Behind the Music" that sensation­alize celebrity deaths with flashy news headlines and dramatic buildups to epic death scenes is the static, almost portrait-like framing of the lilm. 
Most scenes happen either inside or outside of Blake's decrepit northeast mansion, and in the lilm's 90 minutes, very little happens plot-wise. Time is often skewnd and jumbled. and most scenes are dialogue-free and simply follow the clearly stoned Blake stum­ble around as his lackey friends shuf!le in and out while paying little attention to him. 
'l'hn purpose of such a technique, one that is similar to Van Sant's other films "Elephant" and "Gerry," is to eliminate the hype and conspiracy the­ories that surround high profile deaths like Cobain's or the Columbine shoot­
ers in 
Sant connects the 
audience with 
Blake by showing everything that was going on in his world at the time of his death, instead of focusing on Blake's psychological state. 
The littlest things, from watching TV to dealing with visitors to wandering around in the woods presents a com­plete picture without trying to explore Blake's motivations. Blake rarely speaks, and when he does, it is in the mumbled. barely understandable jar­gon reminiscent of Cobain. 
The only revelation that the audience is given into the psychological world of Blake, therefore, is through visually experiencing his world. The film moves at an extremely slow pace, and the fluctuations in time and space are meant to impart the experience of Blake's drug induced stupor onto the audience. 
Blake's death comes at a slightly unexpected time, but is played matter­of-factly, like every other event in the film. 
Van Sant refuses to address any of the theories of murder or conspiracy that surrounded Cobain's death. He does fairly explicitly suggest that it was suicide, but does not create a bloody, graphic death scene out of it. Instead, the final shot of Blake is one of' the most complex and beautiful shots in the film. To Blake and the viewer, his death is more liberation than termina­tion. 

"Last Days" is a complex film that is unlikely to appeal to anyone outside avid Van Sant fans or the art film com­munity. In its simplicity, though, Van Sant probably provides the best glimpse anyone could have into the final hours of Cobain or those like him. 
Contact Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd.edu 
By JESSICA STOLLER 
Scene Critic 
After visiting restaurant after restau­rant, all eating establishments started to look the same. There was very little to differentiate one restaurant from another. If you have fallen into this · restaurant rut as well, then The Fondue! is the place for you. 
Located in the One Hundred Center off of' Lincoln Way in Mishawaka, The Fondue! (formerly called the Fondue l'arlor) is a small restaurant featuring difTerent forms of' ... you guessed it, l'ondun. Though they have other meal options. fondue definitely seemed to be their main attraction. The Fondue! is nestled betwnen two other restaurants in an old warehouse or factory setting. 
Tlw inside of' the restaurant is com­posed of painted brick walls and mixed snating of booths and tabl!~s. Also, two l!wnls arn availabl!~ for upstairs or downstairs dining in the noticeably dark n~staurant. My friends and I were s1~atnd ala booth. and it is worth men­tioning that it was quite possibly the most comfortable rnstaurant seating I havP nv!~r nncount<~red. Tlw seats wcr·e very cushiony. 
Tlw only unfavorable atmosplwric elmrwnt at The Fondue! was the odor or fried food and smoke that followed nw out of' tlw restaurant and remained on my clotlws until laundry day. The total atmosphere score is about 4 out of 5 sporks. 
The service at The Fondue! was a bit unpredictable at times. Though our waiter accomplished all wait tasks, the intervals between courses grew longer and longer, which inevitably caused a bit of frustration. Our particular waiter fruitlessly_ attempted to be humorous on several occasions, which did not endear him to us any more than his lack of punctuality. The waiter did, however, explain the fondue process to my friends and me in a very helpful and experienced way, which is neces­sary if you have no previous fondue skills. The service during our time at The Fondue! is worthy of 3 sparks. 
The food at The Fondue! is more than just nourish­
mont. but enter­ing to watch
The Fondue!
tainment as well. your friends With each fon­Cuisine: Fondue lose their food due order, four Location: 100 N. Center St. in the fondue 
courses are stan­ Mishawaka, IN  
dard: an appetiz­ Phone: (574) 257-1792  
er, a salad, a  
main course and  
d!~ssert.  

The first course is an amazingly deli­cious cheese fondue with white wine and garlic that comes with a variety of brnads and apples to dip in the sauce. After this portion of thn meal has been completed, a small but tasty salad is served (I recommend the tomato bacon dressing). 
Next, the main course fondue is served. The menu exhibits many main course fondue choices, including chick­en. scallops and shrimp, steak, vegela­bles or a combination of any of these. When the main course begins, two portable flames are ignit­ed at the table, and pots of hot oil are placed on top. Meats and vegetables for dipping are served raw on plates and are to be cooked thoroughly in the 
hot oil with fondue forks. There are also about 6 dipping sauces served with which to eat the cooked food. 
Not only is the food amazing, but it is also very entertain­
pots and use various tech­niques to retrieve the lost 
morsels. The dessert course involves a delec­table chocolate sauce 
served with pieces ol' cake and fruit for dipping. The unique and extremely appetizing food at The Fondue! receives 5 sporks. 
Though The Fondue! requires a sub­stantial financial and time commitment (fondue meals range l'rom $16 to $30 and take about two hours to complete). the experience is completely worth it. If you have fallen victim to frequent chain 
1
. 
. .. . 
.···_··o.·_, 
. 

Photo courtesy ol www.l OOcenter com The Fondue! allows diners to dip food in a variety of cooking elements, including cheese and chocolate. 
-
restaurant visits. give The Fondue! a try. It is a great alternative to campus food options and is sure to provide an unforgettable time with your friends. 
Jessica ··spaghetti" Stoller is a stu­dent at Saint Mary's College. She can be contacted at jstollO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in this columrl are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
-
page 16 

The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 3, 2005 
NFL 


Running games lifts Oakland over Cowboys 
Vick leaves Falcons' 30-10 victory over Vikings with ankle injury; McNabb leads Eagles to comeback win over Chiefs 
Associated Press us with the way we're capable Vick went down with a of running the ball ... we are sprained right knee Sunday. 
Randy Moss burned Dallas going to run the ball down your turning it over to backup Matt early, catching a 79-yard pass throat. I think today was a true Schaub and the Falcons' defense on Oakland's second play. After test of that." to finish off a 30-10 rout of the that, his biggest contribution to A week after gaining just 21 Vikings. the Raiders' first win came in yards as a team, Jordan and the "It feels fine. I just tweaked it the n;nning game. offensive line took it upon them­a little bit," Vick said. "We had a 
But the talented receiver did­selves to fix the running game. good cushion. so it made sense n't run a long reverse or throw a They succeeded from the start, . to keep me on the sideline." big downfield block. Instead, his as Jordan frequently got tough Warrick Dunn rushed for 126 presence kept the Cowboys' yards up the middle. yards. including his 50th career safeties away from the line. "We were determined to get touchdown on a 37 -yard run, to 
Enter LaMont Jordan. running yards, especially after lead a 285-yard performance on 
The Raiders' other big acquisi­being shut down last week," the ground. Vick ran for 58 tion on offense ran for a career­offensive lineman Barry Sims yards and threw a touchdown high 126 yards and a score, said. "We really wanted to get pass before getting hurt. The Sebastian Janikowski kicked LaMont going. And you can't go Falcons' defense made things four field goals and Oakland's when there's no where to go, so miserable for Daunte Culpepper, defense mounted a late goal-line we really wanted to get some who was sacked nine times, stand in a 19-13 win Sunday. lanes opened up for him." intercepted twice and lost a 
"I will forever look at it as fumble. teams saying we can't run the Falcons 30, Vikings 10 The Minnesota quarterback ball." said Jordan, who bounced Michael Vick felt good enough has gone down 16 times the last back from a 19-yard perform­to go back in the game. two weeks and looked especially ance last week against No need. In about a quarter gun-shy on his fumble. Rod Philadelphia. "I encourage and a half. he did enough to Coleman brushed Culpepper's defenses to play that way. If you lead the Atlanta Falcons past hip as he drew back to throw. play two-deep defense against the hapless Minnesota Vikings. the ball fell out of his hand and 
Patrick Kerney recovered. 
"I took some good shots." Culpepper said. "It's definitely disappointing. There's a lot of talent on this football team." 

It hasn't showed up so far. The Vikings (1-3) were beaten at home by Tampa Bay and have been outscored 67-18 in two Hall that put the Chiefs on top Todd France, making his NFL road losses. 24-6 with 4:27 left in the first debut in place of the injured 
Coleman, Brady Smith and half. David Akers, had his first field Demorrio Williams had two Terrell Owens fueled the goal attempt blocked. But he sacks apiece for the Falcons (3-comeback by consistently get­made good on a 44-yarder to 1). who had their most sacks ting open and making 11 catch­bring the Eagles to within 24­since a franchise-record 10 es for 171 yards and a TD. 16. against New Orleans in 1997. The Chiefs (2-2) closed to Then McNabb hit Owens twice 
"To get nine sacks and with within six points with 1:24 left for a total of 58 yards in a 4­our crowd behind us like they on Trent Green's 15-yard TD play, 60-yard drive capped by were, that would fluster any pass to Hall, but the Eagles Mike Bartrum 's 3-yard TD offensive line in the league," recovered the onside kick. catch. said Keith Brooking. who had The Chiefs started hot, taking A 2-point conversion pass to nine tackles. a sack and an a quick 17-0 lead. Brian Westbrook tied it 24-all interception. Then Sheldon Brown stopped with 1:54 left in the third and 
the momentum with a 40-yard hushed the sellout crowd that Eagles 37, Chiefs 31 interception return for the had become almost deafening a Donovan McNabb can dish out Eagles' first TD, and Hall took few minutes before. pain as well as he can endure it. the ensuing kickoff all the way McNabb is the first 
Playing with a bruised chest, a back and the Chiefs led 24-6 Philadelphia quarterback to sore leg and an aching abdomi­when the extra point was no pass for more than 300 yards in nal strain, McNabb rallied the good. three consecutive games. Eagles on Sunday from an 18-But Owens and McNabb awak­France put the Eagles ahead point deficit for a 37-31 victory ened the defending NFC 27-24 with a 37-yarder in the over Kansas City. champs. After Sam Raburn fourth quarter. Then Hall fum­
The five-time Pro Bowler hit recovered a Larry Johnson fum­bled away the ensuing kickoff 33 of 48 passes for 369 yards ble on the 50, McNabb hit and McNabb needed just six and three touchdowns as the Owens for 28 yards and then plays to cover the 25 yards, hit­Eagles (3-1) scored 28 straight capped the quick drive with a 7-ting L.J. Smith with a 1-yard TD points. That run followed a 96-yard TD pass to the Eagles' top toss after Smith had made a cir­yard kickoff return by Dante receiver. cus catch of a tipped ball on 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game.  
NOTICES  FOR SALE  game weekends 7732182203  Bedrooms includes all utilities, local phone,washer/dryer, security sys­ Call203-261·8717 Jim.  PERSONAL  
tem. $400/student. Office 234-9334,  
SPRING BREAKERS Book Early  1 bdrm condo near ND.  HOMES FOR RENT  Cell 315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com  WANTED:ND-USC football tix.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
and Save Lowest Prices Hottest  All appliances  KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS  Do not go it alone.  
Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE  HOMES AVAILABLE RANGING  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  TOP$$$ PAID.  If you or someone you love needs  
TRIPS OR CASH FREE  $69,000.  FROM 3 BDRMS UP TO 10  Bedrooms includes all utilities,local  confidential support or assistance,  
MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest  BDRMS. CLOSE TO ND. FOR 06­ phone, washer/dryer, security sys·  CALL  please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at  
Commission Best Travel Perks  Call Kim Kollar 574-280-8160.  07 SCHOOL YEAR CALL  tem. $400/student. Office 234-9334,  574-232·2378 A.M.  1·7819.  
www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800·  KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS •  Cell 315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com  574·288-2726 P.M.  
426-7710  Single/married faculty/staff.  OFFICE 234-2436;  For more information, see our bi·  
-·  WANTED  Own a lovely home near NO for less than you pay for rent.  CELL 315-5032. YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart·  TICKETS  BUY/SELUTRADE OR SWAP NO FOOTBALL TIX.  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER Hope you like the picture of Eli.  
Believe it!  ments available tor 06-07 school  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  289-8048  
 
ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work  year.  TOP$$ PAID.  Brock Spack still doesn't know what  
$1 2.25 base/appt. Flexible sched- Call Dale  Call today 235-7234.  251-1570.  NEED USC &TENN TIX &PARK·  happened  
ules around classes,  lNG PASS.  
 
Gain exp. in customer  (574) 243-9547 or 210·0481.  BLUE &GOLD HOMES. Best rates  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  Trojan Countdown: Two weeks  
sales &service,  Coldwell Banker.  tor weekend, monthly &yearly  289·9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE  574-276-8507.  
Conditions apply, all ages 17 &  rentals.  FOR$$:  Hey Alison!  
older, Call Today 574-273-3835.  FoR RENT  57 4-250-7653.  www.victorytickets.com  A FARM FAMILY NEEDS 2 OR 4 USCTIX.  I love the senior dads  
Alpha Graphics is seeking full &p/t  Rooms in private home for rent dur- BUYING &SELliNG NO FOOT·  
employee for customer service, digi- GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­ ing NO football weekends or other  BALL TIX.  WILL PAY A FAIR PRICE.  Gina Tesi Bling Fling Queen 2005  
tal archiving &bindery work. Apply  BORHOODS  ND-SMC events.  CHECK MY PRICES.  
at 201 N. Main, SB.  andersonN Drentals.com  Call 243·0658.  273-3911.  654-0169 (local call)  Go Eagles  

-


OUND THE NATION 
MonJay, October 3, 2005 CoMPILED FRO.~\ THE 0BSERvrn:s WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Associated Press Top 25 
team record .. J.ioints · 
1 usc 4-0 1,619 
2 Texas 4·0 1;564 
3 Virginia Tech 5-0 1,494 
4 Florida State 4·0 .· 1,391 
5 Georgia 4-0 1;318 
6 Ohio State 3-1 1;279 
7 Alabama !Hl J;15o 
8 Tennessee 3-1 .1,143 
9 Miami 3-1 1.118 
10 California 5-D 988 
11 LSU 2·1 ll78 
12 NOTRE DAME 4-1 966 
13 Florida 4·1 792 
14 Wisconsin 5-Q 713 
15 Texas Tech 4-0 588 
16 Penn State 5·0 493 
17 Arizona Slate H 491 
18 Boston College 4·1 464 
19 Michigan Slate 4-1 455 
20 UCLA 4·0 412 
21 Michigan 3-2 335 
22 Auburn 4-1 298 
23 louisville 3·1 288 
24 Georgia Tech 3·1 226 
26 Oregon 4·1 121 
ESPN/USA Today poll 
team record points 
1 usc 4-D 1.547 2 Texas 4·0 1A83 3 Virginia Tech 5-0 1;425 4 Georgia 4-D 1.332 5 Florida Stale 4·0 1,287 6 Ohio Slate 3-1 1;169 7 Tennessee 3-1 ··1,124 8 Miami 3-1 1,(181 .. 9 Calllornla 6-0 ll93 )\ 10 Alabama 5-0 982.•.••••.•..• iii 11 LSO N 953\ · ·•• 
:::.:::~·:::::::·::. 
12 NOTRE DAME 4-G •• >ssu 13 Texas Tech 4-(1.. 710 14 Wlcc:onila 5.0 . > • 131 15 Florida 4~1 .. 71'1' 16 UCLA • ·,4-0... 491 . 
17 Boston Coll~JQe i~) .. 449<...· r 18 PeMStale 19 Mlclllgan Slate 20 Arizona State 
..·····::·············· ::: 
i.••~~i··································21 AlabUrn 4& 33& 22 Louisville H·· 326 > 23 Georola T&~:h 3-1> 482 24 Michigan H ll!i•···· 25 Oregon 34 111 
MIAA Division Ill Women's Soccer 
team MIAA overall GF GA Calvin 7·0·0 8·1·1 32 1 Hope 6-1-0 8·2·0 16 3 SAINT MARY'S 5·2·0 6-4-0 21 8 OliveI 4-4-0 4·6·0 13 13 Albion 3·3·0 3-5·0 11 10 Kalamazoo 3·3·0 4-4·1 5 7 Alma 2-5·0 3·6·1 5 11 Adrian 1-6·0 1-9·0 3 21 Tri-State 0-7-0 2·8·0 5 36 
around the dial 
NFL 

Green Bay at Carolina 8 p.m., ABC 
MLB 

AP 

Astros' Ray Oswalt delivers a pitch in the first inning on Sunday against the Chicago Cubs. Oswalt got the win to help the Astros clinch the NL wil(k:ard, and is the first pitcher since 2001-2002 with consecutive 20-wln seasons. 
Astros take NL wild-card, ·move on to Playoffs 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON Once again, the Houston Astros waited to the final day. And once again, they're going to the playoffs. 
"That's the Astros' way," Craig Biggio said. "The only way we know how to get it done." 
Roy Oswalt got his 20th win to lead the Astros over the Chicago Cubs 6-4 Sunday, clinching the NL wild-card berth and cap­ping a historic comeback. 
Houston started the sea­son 15-30 and became the first team to make the postseason after falling 15 games under .500 since the 1914 Boston Braves. 
"This one has to rank up there as maybe the best, coming from a long way back," said Biggio, part of five of the Astros' eight previous playoff teams. "That just tells a lot about the guys in this club­house." 
Just like last season, when manager Phil Garner replaced Jimy Williams at the All-Star break, the Astros waited until the last day of the regular season to clinch. 
Oswalt became the first pitcher since 2001-02 with consecutive 20-win sea­sons, throwing six innings and driving in a run for the Astros (89-73). 

Houston lost the first two games of the weekend series, but avoided a tie with Philadelphia for the wild card, and having to go on the road for· a one· game tiebreaker. The Phillies (88-74) won 9-3 at Washington and finished a game back. 
"When I thought we were going to take ofT. we didn't. When I thought we were going to crater, we didn't," said Garner, who preferred to sip the cham­pagne rather than be doused by it. "We came down to the last game, and we did what we had to do." 
Houston will play at 
Atlanta starting 
Wednesday in a rematch of 
last year's NL division 
series, won by the Astros 
in five games for their first 
postseason series victory 
in eight tries. The Braves 
were 5-1 against Houston 
this season, including a 
four-game sweep in 
Atlanta. 
"We know we have a 
daunting task," Garner 
said. 
Houston trailed 4-3 when Oswalt (20-12) threw his last pitch in the sixth. The game was tied by time Jeff Bagwell pinch hit for .him in the bottom of the 
inning. 

IN BRIEF 
Choi J!ets first PGA victory
since Z002 at Chrysler Classic 
GHEENSBOHO, N.C. -K.J. Choi had the look of a champion from the start. 
"You can tell when someone is in the zone by his eyes," said Choi's caddie, Andy Prodger. "And you could sec it in his eyes." 
That determination -and four consecutive birdies to open the final round -helped the South Korean star win the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro on Sunday. lie cruised to a two-shot victory over Shigeki Maruyama to snap a three-year los­ing streak. 
"I really focused on my game," C:hoi said through an interpreter. "In Korea. in all the times, every since the last one, anytime I'm in the last group, I won it except once." 
It was Choi's first PGA Tour victory since 2002, when he won two tour­naments during a breakthrough sea­son. He finished with a 6-under 66 for a 22-under 266. 
Patriots' home winning
streak ends due to injuries 
FOXBOROUGII, Mass. -Injuries finally caught up with the New England Patriots. San Diego's explo­sive offense added to the misery. 
Even Marty Schottenheimer knew something wasn't right with the defending Super Bowl champions. 
After his Chargers beat New England 41-17 Sunday, the San Diego coach suggested the win may have had as much to do with who wasn't playing for New England as the superior performances of Drew Brees, LaDainian Tomlinson and Antonio Gates. 
"What they've done is remark­able," he said of the Patriots, who had their 21-game home winning streak ended. "But at what point in time do you keep responding when you have to keep putting in new players? They've done it wonderfully over the last four years, but there comes a time where it has to catch up with you 

Yankees clinch the AL East,
Red Sox take Wild Card 
BOSTON -The champagne had a brief wait and a short trip after tlw New York Yankees clinched the t\L East at Fenway Park. 
A day later, across the diamond, the Boston Hed Sox joined their long· time rivals in the playoffs. 
"Both of these teams went through a lot this year," said Curt Schilling, who shut the Yankees down long enough for the Bed Sox to win 1 0-1 on Sunday and grab the t\L wild-card berth. "To be where we are says as much about the people as it does about the talent." 
Heigning World Series MVP Manny Hamirez hit a three-run homer and also threw out Derek Jeter from the outfield to put Boston in the playoiTs for a franchise-record third consecu­tive year. The Hed Sox open on Tuesday at Chicago with Matt Clement facing Jose Contreras. 
New York's loss meant it will start the postseason Tuesday in Anaheim. 
Monday, October 3, 2005

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Manning throws four TDs as Giants beat Rams 
Wide reciever Burress redeems self after suspension last week with two touchdowns in 44-24 New York victory 
Associated Press 

EAST HUTHERFORD, N.J.-A week after spending the first quarter on the sideline for violat­ing team rules, Plaxico Burress redeemed himself with one of the best days of his career. 
The sixth-year wide receiver had two touchdown catches among a career-high 10 recep­tions Sunday as the New York Giants defeated the St. Louis Rams 44-24. In addition to Burress' two touchdowns, Giants quarterback Eli Manning threw scoring passes of 1 yard to Amani Toomer and 31 yards to Jeremy Shockey. 
The Giants (3-1) overcame a 40-for-62, 442-yard performance by the Rams' (2-2) Marc Bulger that represented the most passes attempted and completed by a Giants opponent in the team's history. Bulger threw touchdown passes to Steven Jackson and Torry Holt, but was hampered by his team's inability to establish a running attack. 
St. Louis was held to zero net yards in the first half and fin­ished with 42 yards on 15 car­ries. 
The 6-foot-5 Burress, the Giants' major free-agent offsea­son acquisition, has caught four touchdown passes this season. or twice as many as all the Giants' wide receivers caught last sea­son. 
He has developed into Manning's favorite target, and his height has added another weapon to the Giants' receiver corps. 
He wasn't on the field in the first quarter of the Giants' 45-23 loss at San. Diego last Sunday after being benched by coach Tom Coughlin for being late to two team meetings. The move was questioned by some Giants players and became a focus of attention leading up to the Rams game. 
"He was taking a lot of heat last week about things. and I think he just came out and had a good week of practice," Manning said. "He didn't say anything about it, he didn't apologize to me; he didn't have to. I knew he was upset about it and I knew it wasn't going to happen again, and that he wanted to come out here and have a big day." 
Burress and Manning hooked up for both touchdowns in the !irst half. The first came on a 31­yard catch-and-run that Burress leaped high to snare and then ran untouched into the end zone. On the second, Manning laid the ball between two defenders on a post pattern. 
"Last week is last week," Burress said. "I treat each day like a new day, and I'm pretty sure everybody else ~es, too." 
Manning picked up where he left off after last week's career­best 352-yard performance against San Diego. 
His four touchdowns against the Rams were also a career high for the second-year quarter­back, who now has a 9-6 edge in TO passes over older brother Peyton, who has been to the Pro Bowl five times in eight seasons and is a two-time league MVP for Indianapolis. 


Harrison and Manning equal record as Colts blast Titans 
QB/reciever duo ties Young and Rice for most TD connections 
Associated Press 

NASHVILLE. Tenn. -It's time to quit doubting the Indianapolis offense. The Colts showed they can be methodical and score lots of points at the same time. 
Peyton Manning threw for 264 yards and four touchdowns, including two to Marvin Harrison that tied the NFL record for most TDs between a quarterback and receiver, and the Colts beat Tennessee 31-10 Sunday. 
Harrison caught nine passes for 109 yards, and Edgerrin James also ran for 90 yards in helping the Colts improve to 4-0 with their highest point total this s.eason. 
··1 guess we won't have to answer the question what is wrong with the offense now," Colts coach Tony Dungy said. 
The Titans (1-3) are the NFL's youngest team, and their inex­perience showed. Drives ended repeatedly with dropped passes, including one that turned into an interception, costly penalties and two timeouts wasted in a march that finished with a missed field goal. 
Tennessee coach Jeff Fisher said he was disappointed by the lack of execution. Center Justin Hartwig was much more suc­cinct. 
"Today they just blew us out of the water. When we didn't come out in the second half and put points on the board right away, it was pretty much over," Hartwig said. 
Manning and the Colts were numbingly efficient and had fans streaming to the exits mid­way through the third quarter. They rolled up 364 yards with four drives that stretched 69 yards or longer. 
"It's tough," Titans linebacker 
Peter Sirmon said. "You can't 
stop it. Peyton Manning knows 
what he's doing with the ball every time, and you've got to give him credit." 
Manning tied Ron Jaworski with his 116th consecutive start, which ranks second among quarterbacks behind Green Bay's Brett Favre. He came into Sunday with a two-game drought without a TO pass that was his longest since his rookie season. 
It didn't last long. 
Manning was a perfect 4-of-4 for 64 yards on the opening pos­session and capped the drive with a 25-yard toss to Reggie Wayne, who was wide open with Titans safety Tank Williams late sliding over to cover. 
"Last week people were kind of making a big deal," Manning said of scoring 47 points in the first three games. "I overthrew it a couple times. The real mind­set is to finish drives into the end zone, and we did that today. And that really was the differ­ence." 
The Titans chose to spend most of the game in their basic defense instead of filling up the secondary to guard against the pass. They did stop James three times inside the Tennessee 7, forcing the Colts to settle for a 20-yard field goal by Mike Vanderjagt in the second quar­ter. 
That was the only big stop from a defense that watched the Colts convert seven of 10 third 

Steve McNair did his best to nents to single digits in each of carry the Titans as he scram­their first four games. bled four times for 40 yards, but Tennessee looked like it might he was the Titans' leading rush­have a chance to rally at the end er. He was 28-of-37 for 220 of the first half. Trailing 17-3, yards. and his only touchdown McNair found Drew Bennett on pass came on a 6-yarder to a 28-yard toss to the Colts 2, but rookie Bo Scaife with 4:31 left in the ball bounced out and the game. appeared to be an interception 
That ended the Colts' chance by Bob Sanders. to become only the second team Officials originally ruled the since World War II to hold oppo-ball down for Tennessee, but 
Academic Tutors Needed! Office ofAcademic Services for Student-Athletes 
Courses in which tutors are needed include, but are not limited to the 
following: Accounting (20100) Art History (30420) Biology (10106, 30344, 40417) Business Statistics (BAMG 20100) Chemistry (10101, 10113, 10117, 20223, 30333, 



40420) Econontics(30010,33470) Finance(40310,40430,40500,40610) Management (20200, MGTI30620, BAMG 30700, MGTI 30620) Math(10130, 10250,10260,10350, 10450,30750) Physics(10320,30210,30220) 
*Othercourses needed in addition to those listed. Please contact Kelli Kalisik at kkalisik@nd.edu or 631-9788 for more information! 


*Tutors must have received anAorA-in acourse they wish to tutor, as well as arecommendation from the 

Indianapolis took a timeout, then the replay official buzzed for the review. Referee Walt Anderson overturned the ruling and gave the ball to the Colts. 
Tennessee coach Jeff Fisher found Anderson and talked to him as they walked off the field after halftime. Fisher called that a huge momentum swing even though he said the call was cor­rect. 


..---------------. 
Monday, October 03, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 19 
Sound a music major can love. At a price a finance major can appreciate. 
Bose@ sound for the way you listen. 
Whether it's music 


Bose SoundDock™ digital music system. Enjoy Bose"' sound in your room while charging your iPod, iPod mini or iPod photo. Louis Ramirez of The Washington Post says it "delivers crisp, room-filling sound with nice bass that doesn't distort at high volume." 
Bose Companion® 3 computer speaker system. 
A unique circular control pod, two tiny speakers and a hideaway Acoustimasst:<; module (not shown) give your music files sound that MacHome says "is a shock to all who underestimate it." 
Bose Wave® music system. 
CNET says it "improves upon the original in both design and performance." 
--PfElYs MP3 COs, includes FMIAM tuner/alarm clock and fits easily in a dorm or apartment. Jonathan Taklff of The Philadelphia Dat1y News says, "crank it up loud and this little jack is a giant killer. .. " 
For more information 
www.bose.com/school·,__ ,,,,._,,,_.---,.,-.,,,,_, 
-
--~ ------------~---------­
[ -Th, Ob"'"" + SPORTS Monday, Onob" 3, 2005 
~g' 20
' ~~~====~====~======~============~==============~==========~~ 


MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Indians' comeback falls short vs. Sox 
determined.
Cleveland loses in 

On Friday, they clinched must-win situation, home-field advantage through­out the playoffs with a 3-2 winwill1niss playoffs in 13 innings. On Saturday. they held on for a 4-3 win. and Associated Press Sunday they completed a three­game sweep to finish 14-5 ~ 8­
CLEVELAND ~ In the end. 1 at Jacobs Field ~ against the the Cleveland Indians' unex­Indians. pected comeback came up a lit­Cleveland. on the other hand. tle short. With playoff baseball fell apart. again in their sights, and when Entering last Sunday's game games mattered most, they at Kansas City, the Indians simply collapsed. were 1 1/2 games ahead in the 
Needing a win and then help wild card and 1 1/2 behind the from the New York Yankees to free-falling White Sox, who led force a one-game playotT with the division by 15 games on Boston for the AL wild card, Aug. 1. Cleveland dropped its season But beginning with a 5-4 loss finale 3-1 to the Chicago White to the Royals, a defeat that was Sox on Sunday. scaled when center fielder 
The loss concluded a disas­Grady Sizemore lost a ninth­trous final week for the Indians inning lly ball in the Missouri (93-69), who dropped six of sunshine, the Indians played their last seven games and more like the team that went 9­missed the playoffs for the 14 in April, not the one that fourth straight season. The was baseball's hottest team for defeat also handed the wild the final two months. card to the Red Sox _ a post­Cleveland fans will look back season spot that appeared to and remember the clutch hits belong to Cleveland just a few that never came despite count­days ago. less chances in the past few 
"We played so well for so days. long, we were bound to hit a The Indians went just 7 -for-tough stretch." Indians pitcher 56 (.125) with runners in scor­
C.C. Sabathia said in a somber ing position in the final seven Cleveland clubhouse. "It just games ~ five of them one-run happened in the last week of losses. the season." They'll also remember the 
After the final out, several wasted pitching performances Indians lingered in the dugout, by starters Cliff Lee. Kevin simply staring out to the field Millwood and Jake Westbrook. as the sellout crowd gave the who did their parts but didn't team one last standing ovation. get enough offensive support. acknowledging a season few And sadly, the Indians' sur­thought possible. prising season ~ they were 
Rookie Brandon McCarthy (3-just 80-82 in 2004 ~ will be 
2) took a shutout into the sixth, overshadowed by one week Jermaine Dye homered and the when it all went wrong. White Sox tuned up for their "We ended like we started." first-round series with Boston. said closer Bob Wickman. who Game 1 is scheduled for is eligible for free agency. "We Tuesday in Chicago. came up one game short. But 
The White Sox (99-63) had the guys should be very proud already clinched the AL Central of what they've accomplished." by the time they arrived on Trailing by three, the Indians Friday for a series that was tried to rally in the sixth as mostly meaningless for them. Travis Hafner and Victor and many wondered how hard Martinez hit consecutive dou­they would play with their fate bles to pull Cleveland to 3-1. 
Live aIIHie· on Mondays! 
~ta~ta~ 
EnJoy adouble order of chfcket1, steak or cotttbo fajttas lmough for 1Wo) for Just t11!* 

• •i 

/ 
&BAR 

·MISHAWAKA 4110 frape ld.. Dl..)Sgo ..'filii...,. MMrt Tiu."'­


Monday, October 3, 2005 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Cardinals down 49ers in first NFL ga~ne outside of U.S. 
Tennis 
continued from page 28 
125th-ranked Natalie Braveman of l'epperdinc, 6-3, 6-1. Thompson then finished her weekend up nicdy by topping I02nd rankml Kelly Anderson (,. 3, 6-2. 
"It's going to lk one match at a time; after every round she has gained a lot of conlidence," said Irish assistant coach Michelle Da..o.;so, who is curn~ntly with the Thompson sisters in I.os Angeles for tlw tournament. 
"Last year slw was hurt and struggling with a knee injury. She's just really played to her potPntial again," she said. 
Christian and Catrina Thompson will need to win another three matches in order to secure a berth in the main draw of 32 compPtitors later in t.he w<~ek. Catrina Thompson is ranked 27th nationally and had gained an automatic berth into tlw qualifying round. 
When put together, the two sis­tm-s form an even greater threat to tlwir opposition, as they are ranked second in the nation in doubles. The two will try to make a run for the All-American dou­bles title in the main draw of 32 starting Thursday. 
"[The Thompson twins! arc extremely talented and can com­pete with anyone in the country," Dasso said. "It's just a matter of having confidence in them and staying positive with them. Their athleticism and competitiveness arc their two biggest assets." 
The Thompson aces were not the only members of the women tennis team in action this week­end. The rest of the team traveled to Bloomington, Ind. to take part in the Iloosicr Classic, put on by Indiana University. 
Freshman Kelcy Tefft came through strong in her collegiate debut, after knocking off Indiana's Brianna Williams. 6-2, 6-2. in the 'C' flight champi­onship. Senior Kelly Nelson won her fifth straight match to take the 'D' !light final against Kansas State's Vivian Yrureta, 6-3, 6-3. Nelson is returning after well over a year's absence from com­petitive tennis and shows no signs of' stopping. 
Tefft didn't slow down after taking the singles title in her flight, as she teamed up with jun­ior Brook Buck to win the Hoosier doubles championship. The two were partners in junior tennis prior to college, where they were formerly the top­ranked tandem in the 18-and­under bracket. 
The Irish pair upset the 19th­ranked team in the country, Indiana's Sarah Batty and Laura McGaffigan, 9-7 in the champi­onship match. Prior to that the women knocked off another Indiana team. 8-6. in the semifi­nals. 
Another Irish tandem of Kristina Stastny and Lauren Connelly gained a consolation vic­tory over Kansas State's Fernanda De Valle and Vivian Yrureta, 8-2, but not before falling to the Indiana tandem that Buck-Tefl't defeated in the cham­pionship. 
Buck nearly won in singles play, in addition to doubles com­petition. Buck fell in the 'A' !light final to Indiana's Batty 6-2, 6-2 after exhibiting solid play and vic­tories over several fierce oppo­nents. Freshman Katie Potts chal­lenged for a title on the weekend as well. losing a nail-biter to Indiana's McGaffigan in the 'B' flight final 6-3. 4-6, 1-0 (1 0-4). 
The Irish women will next wel­come the University of Southern California on Oct. 14 in an exhibi­tion head-to-head matchup. The Thompson twins will continue All-American play on Tuesday and could finish with a singles and doubles victory in hand by Sunday. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY-The NFL threw a fiesta at Azteca Stadium, and the biggest regu­lar-season crowd in league his­tory turned up wearing vibrant colors and singing raucous cheers. 
Mexico's 103.467 fans created a thrilling atmosphere at the league's first regular-season ganw outside thn United States -even though the Arizona Cardinals' 31-14 victory over tlw San Francisco 49ers wasn't nxael.ly the most savory version of "futbol americano." 
.Josh McCown passed for a career-high 385 yards and two touchdowns against the Niners' pathetic pass defense, and Neil Hacknrs kicked a career-best six field goals through the 7,700-foot air. 
But. the sloppy play and onn­sidnd n~sult in a game betw1~en two of the NFL's worst teams S!H'llll'd secondary to tlw good­will and international exposure of' a foroign venture the lnague hopes to turn into an annual alTair. 
The cavernous arena \vas packed to the rafters with a crowd that exceeded the league's most optimistic projec­tions two days ago, proving the sport's avid following in Mnxico is seeond to norw outside the United Statns. 
"Thn ~~xp1~riencn in Mnxico City has been wonderful. and this capped it off." said Hackers, who fnll one short of the NFL record for field goals in a game. "It was wonderful. They're great fans, really into the game, mor~~ knowledgeable than I thought thny would be. It was probably the best erowd I've been around." 
The Cardinals (1-3) agreed to give up a home game to make history, and the NFC West rivals played in front of (>8,398 more fans than they drew for last season's meeting at Sun Devil Stadium. The crowd topped the 
· previous NFL record for a regu­lar-season game, when 102,368 fans saw the Los Angeles Hams play the 49crs at the L.A. Coliseum on Nov. 10, 1957. Derek Smith and Derrick Johnson scored on fumble recoveries for San Francisco (1­
3) in the first quarter. with Smith scoring on the game's lirst play and Johnson returning his 78 yards. But Arizona scored the rest of the night's points, with Larry Fitzgerald and Anquan Boldin making tough catches for scores as the Cardinals avenged two overtime losses to the N FL's worst team last year. 
Hackers loved the mountain air in a city 2,000 feet higher than Denver, connecting !'rom 
40. 45, 48. 23, 43 and 24 yards -but the Cards decided not to kick one last, late lield goal to tie the league record held by four players. 
"I'd rather be a gentleman and not kick a field goal against a team we've got to play again this season." Hackers said. 
Mexico's biggest city was a natural choice for this trailblaz­ing game. The NFL is widely popular south of the border, with nearly one in five Mexicans claiming an interest in thn league. The NFL opened an ontcn in Mexico in 1998, with an eight-person staff overseeing its growing profiln. 
The league's popularity was evident to visitors arriving at Azteca. where the number of fans wearing replica jerseys ­more Dallas Cowboys than NinlH'S or Cardinals -nearly outnumbered the hundreds of' police and security officials ringing the stadium. 
Both teams took the field to wild cheers amid cheerleaders and fireworks, but free safety Hobert Griffith got the biggest roars when he led the Cardinals out of their giant inllatable hel­met wildly waving a Mexican flag. 
Only a few empty seats were visible in the upper deck of the they did "La Ola" -the wave. famed soccer venue. Mexican When McCown made a spinning fans showed they know football, move to dodge a tackler in the cheering for surging ball-carri­fourth quarter. the fans shouted ers and whistling at San "Ole!" Francisco's poor offensive exe­Two-time MVP Kurt Warner cution. was on the cover of the game 
And when the game got a bit programs, but Arizona's veter­dull early in the second quarter, an quarterback missed the 
offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 4th 
(and every first Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The student members of the 
Standing Committee on Gay 
and Lesbian Student Needs 
invite gay, lesbian, and 
bisexual members of the 
Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to 
an informal coffee at the 
Co-Mo. 

Everyone Is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
G-."''.t.MCI LKeJMAII SYUDaNT N•KD• 

"" 

game with a groin injury. McCown, who started 13 games last season, started slowly but became the game's star when he realized the Niners' pass defense. with three fringe NFL players among its top five defensive backs. wouldn't stop anybody. 
page 22 Monday, October 3, 2005
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles dominate thin and outgunned Tri-State 
Hinton scores hat trick, Logan nets two goals, Orr chips in two assists as Saint Mary's blasts Thunder 9-1 
By KYLE CASSILY 
SportS Wrirer 

Sometimes being the better team isn't always as rewarding as it sounds. 
The Belles soccer team scored early and often in a dominating 9-1 defeat of the Tri-State University Thunder at home on Saturday. The Thunder were a drastic mismatch for a far superior Belles squad -Tri­State had no substitutes to fill in for tired starters and have yet to win a MIAA game thus far this season. 
The win may prove 

Mackenzie worried that, once play resumes with solid opponents, her team will be off­speed. 
"I think that basically you don't like to play a lot of games like we just played, but it does boost morale a bit for people to put the ball in the back of the net a bit," she said. 
Freshman offensive power­house Lauren Hinton led the way for the Belles by notching a hat trick past flustered Thunder goalkeeper Jackie Bercaw. Bercaw faced a diversified attack from all corners of the field, as the Belles maintained fluid ball control throughout the Thunder's zone for the duration of regulation play. 
Carolyn Logan followed Hinton on the scoring chart with two goals, while midfielder Carrie Orr contributed two assists. The Belles scored their first two goals within the open­ing three minutes of play, an act that set the tone for the remainder of the game. 
"It was just a really good team effort," Mackenzie said. 
"We moved the 
ball well. We 
beneficial to "It does boost morale a stayed really the Belles' bit for people to put the organized in 
win column, the back
ball in the back 
but the lack of despite the fact decent com­of the net." that they didn't petition has pressure us." head coach Freshman
Caryn Mackenzie
C a r y n J e n n y
Belles head coach 
Ferguson 
scored her first career collegiate goal in the win and was joined by Ashley Hinton, who tallied a lone goal amidst the Saint Mary's domi­nation. By the end of the first half the Belles held a com­manding 6-0 lead and began to substitute starters out of the game. 
"We moved some people around and put some people in positions they don't normally play in," Mackenzie said, 
describing the re-organization of the Belles fielders. Every player on the Belles gained playing time and the crucial experience needed to field a contending soccer team. 
The lone Thunder goal came midway through the second half on a fluke letdown of the tenacious Saint Mary's defense. It scooted into the corner of the net past Belles' goalkeeper Nicole Leach. Leach and Laura Heline split halves. Ileline's playing time coming in the first half. 
"When you are playing a team that barely presses you offensively, you get lulled," Mackenzie explained of the Thunder goal. "Girls in the back tend to over-commit a bit to get into the action on the other end." 
But no matter the level of competition, the Belles notched another win in the tough MIAA conference and moved to 5-2 on the season. The record is good enough to earn them a third­place standing behind current leader Calvin and second-place Hope College. 
"It was a real sleeper of a game-it isn't a great measur­ing tool for us," Mackenzie said. "The one bonus I can say about the weekend overall is that we didn't lower our standard of play to their standard of play." 


Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

What is a strong password? 
A Strong Password is a difficult-to-guess password 
that you use with your NetiD to access insideND, 
Notre Dame email and shared storage spaces, such 
as NetFile. It is at least eight characters long, and 
is made up of upper and lowercase random letters, 
numbers, punctuation marks and other keyboard 
symbols. 
What is a weak password? 
A weak password is one that is short and easy to guess. 
Q 
What's an example of a weak password? 
Your first name followed by your dorm room number is an example of a weak password. 
What's an example of a Strong Password? 
myPWis1 Uwg 
How can I remember a password that complex? 
It's a "passphrase" derived from "my password 
is one you won't guess." Remember the phrase; 
remember the password. 
How do I change to a Strong Password? 
Go to https:l/password.nd.edu, and follow the instructions. 
Q 
Why should I change to a Strong Password? 
(1) 
Weak passwords put sensitive and personal information at risk that can be used by identity thieves (you don't want strangers guessing your password and pretending to be you) ; 

(2) 
If you do not change to a Strong Password, your existing password will expire, disrupting your access to Notre Dame networked applications, including email and shared storage. 


Q 
Will all existing passwords expire at the 
same time? 

No. Passwords that have not been changed (to 
Strong Passwords) since July 5, 2005 will be 
randomly tagged for expiration sometime between 
now and the spring of 2006. 
Q 
How will I know that my password is set 
to expire? 

You will receive an email from the OIT, and you will 
have 30 days from the day of receipt to change to a 
Strong Password. Once you change your password 
to a Strong Password, you won't have to change it 
again for another 180 days. 
Q 
When it comes to Strong Passwords, will the 
University make exceptions for some campus 
computer users? 

No exceptions will be granted. 

Monday, October 3, 2005 

The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles get 18th at Sean Earl Lakefront Invite 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Taller Bethel downs SMC 
ing the second game, which "We weren't as strong in
By RYAN KEIFER nearly fell the Belles' way. game three, but overall I 

Sports Writer 

B1g Bethel kills and timely thought we played well," she 
defense marked the first two said. "I thought we really chal­
The Bethel College volleyball games. Saint Mary's never let lenged them today. In past team has four players six feet Bethel get too far ahead, con­years we have go into Bethel or taller. The Saint Mary's vol­sistently keeping the Bethel and laid down. We didn't do leyball team has none. lead at two or three points. The that today." 
A distinct height advantage, Belles trimmed the game one Schroeder-Biek said that Pilot combined 
lead to 26-24 before losing four coach Julia Heninga compli­with power­straight points to end the mented her on the Belles' play ful hitting, game. after the match. led Bethel Saint Mary's played its best Kristen Playko and Michelle College to a volleyball of the match in the Turley led the Saint Mary's thrne-garne second game, winning several offense with 12 kills apiece, win over long points. With the score tied while setter Amanda David led Saint Mary's at 14, Saint Mary's played a the passing game with 34 Saturday, ball off the rafters after deflect­assists. Libero Anne Cusack 30 24 30 27 ing a Bethel kill attempt and anchored the defense with 19 
-· -Schroeder-Biek
and :~0-22. came back to win digs. 
Belles coach Julie Schroeder­the point. The The Belles Hick knew her team would face point character­"We knew going in have complet­match-up problems even ized the Belles' ed their non­
with their height, 
before Saturday's contest with determination that conference the Pilots began. allowed them to matches for
our floor defense "We knew going in that with take a 26-25 lead was going to have to the season and their height, our floor defense late in the game. will now turn
pick it up." 
was going to have to pick it up. Five of the next six their focus to We knew they were going to be points would fall MIAA oppo­a challenge," she said. Bethel's way, how­Julie Schroeder-Biek nents begin­
Despite the outcome, the ever, putting the Belles head coach ning with Belles played a solid match, Belles in a two­Adrian College using scrappy floor defense to games-to-none Wednesday. make Bethel, an NAIA power­hole. Schroeder-Biek thought the house, sweat, especially during Bethel's size and potent Bethel match would prepare game two. ofl"ense wore on Saint Mary's in her team for this week's match. 
"That team fully expects to game three. A 9-0 Pilot run "This match was good for us go to nationals in their divi­turned a 7-5 Saint Mary's lead heading into Adrian because sion," Schroeder-Hick said. into a 14-7 Belles deficit. Saint they have a very good transfer 
Saint Mary's made usc of dif­Mary's would not get any closer hitting on the outside. Our ferent defensive rotations to than five points for the rest of defense will have to play well combat Bethel's attack. the game. again," she said. Schroeder-Biek was pleased Schroeder-Biek was proud of with her team's ability to adapt her team's effort, despite the Contact Ryan Kiefer at to the changes, especially dur-loss. rkiefer I @nd.edu 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Senior Becky Feauto led the Belles to an 18th-place finish at the non-conference Sean Earl Lakefront Invitational in Chicago Sunday. 
Feauto finished the hilly, five­kilometer course in 20:39 and placed No. 92 in the individual competition of approximately 500 runners. 
Junior Sara Otto finished 11 seconds behind Feauto and cap­tured 1OOth in the individual race. 
The Belles began their work­outs for "this race more than a month ago, as the team ran hills every week during practice to prepare itself for courses like the one it faced on the campus of Loyola University Saturday. 
Freshman Alicen Miller fmished fourth for the Belles with a time of 21:48, continuing the success she has earned in her first year. 
"Individually, I felt like I person­ally ran my best," she said. "It was a very tough course." 
Miller said that head coach Jackie Bauters and assistant coach Dave Barstis prepared Saint Mary's well for the meet. 
"We have been doing hills every week for the past month or so, preparing for any race with hills," Miller said. 
She said the team tapered this past week to prepare for the gru­cling competition in Chicago. 
Miller's time was the same as junior Katie White, who was fifth for Saint Mary's. 
Fellow freshman Kelly Biedron placed third for the Belles with a time of 21:22. 
Sophomore Elizabeth Johnson crossed the finish line just thme seconds and four spots behind White, and freshman Grace Fey finished just two seconds after that. 
For the second straight week, four underclassmen were among the Belles' first seven finishers, thus counting in the scoring sys­tem. 
Miller said she is impressed with the young talent on the team. She also said that Feauto and Otto and the other team vet­erans have helped the younger runners. 
"We've got great leaders to keep us under their wing," she said. "They tell us ... about the courses, where a tough part is going to be and where it's easy to pass people." 
Miller and her teammates needed that information Saturday more than ever, as 27 teams -a very high total for a meet ­
participated in the annual race. 
or the schools competing,. though, the only other MIM team in the field was Kalamazoo, which finished 12th. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler I @nd.edu 

SAINT MARY'S STUDY ABROAD FAIR rflJESl)AY, OCTOBER 4, 2005 4:00-6:00 ptn SlVJC: NE\V S~fUDENT (~ENTER: ATI~IUl\1 Si\lN.T l\1ARY'S (~A.I\tlPUS 
ALL ND, SMC & HC STUDENTS ARE WELCOME!! 
Semester Pro rams  
ROME, ITALY  
MAYNOOTH, IRELAND  
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD  
SEVILLE, SPAIN  
INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA  
FREMANTLE, AUSTRALIA  
WOMEN'S STUDIES in EUROPE  
DIJON, FRANCE  


s Break Pro ram 
JAMAICA FIELD STUDY 

Summer Programs  
MEXICO CITY SURVEY: Study of American Business  
ENVIRONMENTS of ECUADOR  
INTERNSHIP in the EUROPEAN UNION  
EUROPEAN STUDY PROGRAM  
GREECE STUDY TOUR  
KOREAN CULTURE STUDY  
HONDURAS STUDY PROGRAM  

Korean Culture Studv Pro.r:ram -Sarah Paladmo SMC 

Monday, October 3, 2005 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
NO SOFTBALL 

Two solid victories highlight fall play 
Strong offense, good pitching bring wins 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame softball team concluded its fall schedule on Saturday with two victories over Southern Illinois and Wisconsin­Parkside in the first and last games of a four-team exhibition tournament. The Irish beat Southern Illinois by a score·of 3-1 in the first game of the day and defeat­ed Wisconsin-Parkside later in the afternoon in a lop­sided 8-0 victory. Western Michigan University was also at the tournament but did not play against Notre Dame. 
The Irish defense played two solid games on Saturday, making no errors in the field. Head coach Deanna Gumpf said the team has put much of its practice time so far this year into its defensive play and she's pleased with the way that they players have responded. 
"We've been focused more on defense [this fall] because of the weather," Gumpf said. ".When we're outside, we like to work on a lot of defensive things. November through February is when we'll be working on hitting." 
The second game of the day for the Irish was pushed back half an hour from its 4 p.m. scheduled starting time, as a game between Western Michigan and Wisconsin-Parkside went into extra innings, eventually resulting in a 3­1 victory for the Broncos. 
Discouraged by its loss, Wisconsin showed little offense against the Irish and could not keep up with Notre Dame's batting line­up. The home team took advantage early in the game, scoring all eight of its runs in the first four innings. 
Stephanie Browrl' got the offense going in the first inning with a single, .and Katie Laing got the first RBI of the game shortly there­after. 
The Irish could have made a third out at that point and still had a good inning, but when junior Gessica Hufnagle got up with one runner on, she drove in a two-run homer, which gave Notre Dame a comfortable 3-0 lead after only one inning of play. The hits kept on coming for the Irish, who scored another run in the second inning. 
Laing gave the team a last burst of offense in the fourth inning with a three­run home run over the left­field fence. 
Notre Dame's pitchers gave another strong per­formance throughout the day, allowing only one run in 14 innings of play. Brittney Bargar, a freshman out of Corona, Calif., credit­ed a lot of the success on the mound to the funda­mentally sound defense. 
"It's so nice to know that even when you do make a mistake the defense is there to back you up," Bargar said. "[The defense] backed up all the pitchers yester­day. It was awesome." 
Bargar threw a no-hitter for the first four innings of the second game and was relieved by junior Kenya Fuemmeler. 
With four exhibition games under their belts, the Irish are off now for the next five months. Regular season play for the team will begin on Feb. 17, 2006, when the Irish kick off their season at the UNLV tourna­ment. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

• 


our 1 eas 
_we hove. GE's LEXAN SlX body panels infuse plastic with pigment. reducing voiotiie organic compound emissions nonnally associated with ronventonol autornotive point. We call this ecomoginotion. At GE we invite you to hatch ;,;our ecomaginotion U1rough a career j,-, ff'lo]ir,eenog. fioooce. manufocturing. soles o:nd m'lrketing, human r€'5Qurces. or :iniformati.on ta:hoology. 


ecomagination:·~ 
to :eom :r.r.or:e 'W'M :lJIS dl. geco:roors.ocom 
·am ·eq•J!lli •oppartiJi-iJl!s 'r:rnf!'lc>~;;t-"' 

Tie 
continued from page 28 
thought we played well throughout with the exception of a 15 minute spell through the first half." Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
Joe Lapira led the Irish out of the gates with a goal in the fifth minute. He collected a free kick from John Stephens and put the Irish ahead 1-0 early in the game. 
The lead didn't last long. however. as a messy goal-line situation resulted in the Mountaineers tying the game for the first time since play began. After a shot deflected off the crossbar. Chris Cahill attempted to punch out the ball. but West Virginia's Zak Boggs put into the net. 
"I thought we in many respects played very well," Clark said. "At the start we had a very good goal, it got us going." 
After halftime, the Irish again started out strong. Lapira fed Justin McGeeney a pass, which the forward put away less than two minutes into the period. 

The Irish offense appeared periods, neither team was able poised to explode, as several to gain a game-winning advan­golden chances to get a game­tage. The contest ended in a 3­sealing goal were missed. 3 tie. 
"We made the chances very "You make your own luck," well. but if we had taken just Clark said. "[But! having been one of these ahead three times chances -and in the game and there were good "We've got to losing the lead on chances it each occasion. we
keep in mind it's
would have put maybe should the game at 3-1, certainly one have done a bet­and I think that ofour better ter job at that ­would pretty well at holding onto
performances of
have sealed the the lead." 
result," Clark said. the year." The tie takes The lead would some momentum stand for nearly out of Notre
Bobby Clark 
40 minutes, until Dame's play in the
Irish coach 
Cahill gave up the Mountaineers' sec­ond goal on a corner kick. 

With less than five minutes remaining in regulation, mid­fielder Nate Norman sent home his third goal of the sea­son to give the Irish their last point. 
But the Irish attempt to bunker down for four minutes of defense failed, as the Mounatineers found the net for the final time. West Virginia's Jarrod Smith tallied his second goal of the contest only 27 sec­onds after Norman's score. 
Throughout two overtime 
middle of the con­
ference season. However, Clark thinks the team can rebound on the road against Marquette on Wednesday. 
"It's disappointing not taking all the points. but at the same time I think we've got to keep in mind it's certainly one of our better performances of the year," Clark said. "Hopefully we can take some of the quali­ty play into Wednesday's game with Marquette." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
A diversified technology, f4nc:ndoJ services. media comprmy. 

Monday, October 3, 2005 page 25 
The Observer + SPORTS 

Dame beat its two opponents 30-20 for their 13th consecu­"The offense was balanced category. The offense was solid by a combined 6-1 game score. tive victory over their Big East against Marquette ... but we as well. Freshman Mallorie
Irish 
continued from page 28 

or like they'v1~ linally done bet­ter. Over the weekend. Notre 
The defense dominated Friday, recording 68 digs and 10 blocks in just three games, while the offense took over Sunday. The Irish swept the Syracuse Orange 30-17, 30-23, rival and then eased past the Marquette Gold 30-24, 28-30, 30-21,30-21 to improve to 11­1, 3-0 in Big East play. 

But coach Debbie Brown still isn't satisfied. 
'·: ,. 
didn't play one of our best matches. We didn't play great," she said matter-of-fact­ly. "We still feel we can play a lot better." 
The Irish traveled to Syracuse, NY Thursday evening, played Friday night, flew to Chicago Saturday morning, bussed to Milwaukee later that day and played Marquette Sunday afternoon. 
They had plenty of reasons for being fatigued. They had plenty of excuses for flat play. 
But their coach wasn't buy­ing any of them. 
"I don't think the traveling had any effect on them," Brown said. "We were able to get enough rest." 
That's the attitude that's helped Notre Dame to one of its best starts in school history -the attitude that there's always work to do and always something to critique. 
In the match against the Orange, senior libero/outside hitter Meg Henican led the defense with 26 digs, the sec­ond-highest total ever for an Irish player in a three-game match. She finished the week­end with 18 against the Gold. 
"I do think Meg played very, very well," Brown said. "She has been playing really great defense. Overall, Meg had a really strong weekend for us." 
Senior Carolyn Cooper added two to her block total, as she still leads the Big East in the Croal led all players with 17 kills and hit .400. Sophomore outside hitter Adrianna Stasiuk nailed 11 kills, her first time in double-ligures this season and senior Lauren Kelbley finished with 15 kills and hit .324. 
The Notre Dame offense was more balanced in the quick victory over Marquette. Sophomore setter Ashley Tarutis paced the offense with 51 set assists, while four play­ers had doublt>-digit kills. Croal smashed 11. All-Big East picks Kelbley and fellow senior Lauren Brewster pound!\d 13 and 16 apiece, and Stasiuk exploded for 14. Stasiuk also had 21 digs. 
"Offensively, we were bal­anced, and that was good," Brown said. "We had a solid third game against Marquette. 
"We're looking forward to, right now, getting a little bit more consistent play, playing the match all the way through." 
Syracuse dropped to 10-6 overall and 2-1 in the Big East, while Marquette fell to 8-7 overall and 2-2 in the Big East. 
Still undefeated in the chal­lenging Big East. the Irish will face Valparaiso Wednesday at the Joyce Center before hitting the road for four straight matches. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
BETH WERNET /The ObseJVer 

Lauren Brewster goes for a spike against Cincinnati on Sept. 
25. The Irish are currently ranked No. 10. 

Attend the 2005 ND Law Fair 
October 3, 2005 McKenna Hall 11:00-3:00 
Representatives from over 70 law schools will be available in an informal setting to answer questions and provide information to students about their law schools. 
page 26 Monday, October 3, 2005
The Observer + SPORTS 
Split 
continued from page 28 

got free at the top of the box and beat a charging Lauren Karas for the goal. Julie Thompson assisted on the score, which left Notre Dame trailing an opponent for only the second time all year. The Irish have lost both contests. 
"From there, things snow­balled on us," Irish head coach Handy Waldrum said. 
Karas started her sixth con­secutive match in place of injured preseason All-Big East goalkeeper Erika Bohn. Karas had allowed just one goal in her previous five games, but would be victim­ized _by Loughrin twice Friday. 
Less than six minutes after staking her team a lead, Loughrin found pay dirt again, netting her sixth goal on the season on an assist from Meghan Connelly. 
Loughrin was not the only star of the game for the Golden Eagles. The goalkeep­ing of Marquette goalie Laura Boyer prevented the Irish from mounting a comeback. Boyer saved 13-of-14 Irish shots on go.al in a stellar per­formance. 
Waldrum said Boyer's play was impressive, but his team didn ;t force her to make enough difficult saves. 
"What she handled, she handled everything clean and didn't give up any second chances," he said. "[But] we didn't make her have to do any quality work. Most of what she had to handle were just crosses coming in or soft shots -high balls to her. We didn't really make her have to extend herself." · 
The Irish needed to convert their shots because Marquette's offense continued its attack in the second half. Julie Thompson scored 20 minutes into the second half to give Marquette a 4-1 lead, which would hold up as the final score. 
The Irish opened the scor­ing at 20:01, with Brittany Bock and Kerri Hanks assist­ing on Jen Buczkowski's fourth goal of the season. Bock delivered the ball up field to Hanks on the left side, and Hanks sent a cross through the box, where Buczkowsi trailed the play and nailed a one-timer for a 1-0 Irish lead. 
Marquette tied the game five minutes later when Connelly scored an unassisted goal to make the score 1-1. 
The Irish had several chances to regain the lead, and later tie the game, but Boyer and the Marquette defense held the nation's leading-scoring team to just one goal on 24 shots. 
Waldrum said that if the Irish converted on one of sev­eral opportunities early and taken a 2-1 lead or tied the game at 2-2, his team would have fared much better. 
!'[f we get that second goal, I'm convin·ced we walk away winning that game," he said. 
"We had some missed opportunities that we could have taken the lead on. Every mistake we made, they pounced on. 
"Once they believed they could hang with us and stay in the game, you could see their confidence growing." 
The Golden Eagles used that confidence and had a remark­ably efficient night. They totaled a meager five shots, but converted all four shots on goal. 
The four goals allowed were the most by an Irish team since allowing the same total to Georgetown in the 2002 season. 
Notre Dame 4 South Florida 0 
After nearly 20 hours of travel Saturday to get from Milwaukee, Wis., to Tampa, Fla., the Irish utilized almost their entire available roster to beat South Florida Sunday. 
The Bulls kept the Irish off the board for the first 28 min­utes but couldn't stop senior forward Katie Thorlakson once she came off the bench for Notre Dame. 
Waldrum said he tried to 
rest his players as much .as possible because of the heat in Tampa and the extensive travel time the team accumu­lated the day before. lie kept Thorlakson and Hanks on the bench to start the game and had Nikki Westfall start in goal for the first time of her career. 
Westfall was Susan Pinnick in good posi­tion in the left corner, and Pinnick netted her fourth goal of the season on a shot inside the near post. 
The Irish defense played exceptional after the tough outing against MarquntlP. South Florida tried to attack, but Candace Chapman lead 
the back line 

successful for and prevented
"It was really
all 90 minutes the Bulls from for the Irish, important to get a getting good saving· all three good solid win and scoring oppor­of the Bulls' tunities.
keep the shutout. The
shots on goal. Waldrum sin-
Thorlakson last thing we needed gled out capitalized on to do today, even ifwe Chapman as an Amanda the Irish's best
won, is to give up a
Cinalli pass in player of the
couple ofgoals."
the box and weekend on netted her the road. 15th career Randy Waldrum Waldrum game-winning said the strong
Irish coach 
goal at 28:33, a shot to the right corner of the net. 
She scored again 10 min­utes later, this time assisted by Hanks. 
"You know we got it from our leaders, that's the response that we want," Waldrum said of Thorlakson's performance Sunday. "That's where you hope you've got the leadership on the team." 
Waldrum was even happier that Thorlakson and the Irish did not slow down in the sec­ond half with the game out of reach. 
At 85:57, Thorlakson found defensive per­
formance for all 90 minutes Sunday was crucial for the team to get back on track after its second loss of the season. 
"It was really important to get a good solid win and keep the shutout," Waldrum said. "The last thing we needed to do today, even if we won, is to give up a couple of goals." 
Westfall maintained the shutout in the second half. and the Irish cruised to a rebound victory. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Runners 
continued from page 28 

Curran, who was 37th in 24:37, rounded out the scoring run­ners for Notre Dame. 
The next Notre Dame runner to cross the finish line was jun­ior Todd Ptacek, who clocked a time of 25:02 and finished 61st. Sophomore Brett Adams round­ed out the lineup for the Irish, crossing the line in 25:08 and finishing 69th. 
Arizona won the meet, led by Obed Mutanya's second place finish. Florida and Florida State took third and fourth, respec­tively. 
Madia and Huddle led the women, finishing 11rst and sec­ond with times of 16:36 and 16:39, respectively. The Irish had two more runners, sopho­more Sunni Olding (ninth place with a time of 17:14) and fresh­man Ramsey Kavan (eleventh place with a time of 17:16), ftn­ish in the top 11. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, 
fifth runner Jean Marinangeli got off to a poor start and was unable to catch up to the front runners, 11nishing 68th with a time of 18:06. ' 
"1 knew our top four would be good. but that we'd need to work on 11nding a fifth runner. I didn't think it would be that bad though," Irish women's head coach Tim Connelly said. "Quite honestly, a course like this for a kid like Jean, she couldn't get out very well. She closed well, but it's hard to come from behind on a course like this." 
Connelly said he was disap­pointed that his team, which would have won the meet if its fifth runner had placed higher, did not have the depth to be successful Friday. Senior Elizabeth Webster and Junior Katie DeHusso also competed for Notre Dame, but neither fin­ished higher than 88th. 
"We've got people capable of running well at 11ve, but today they just didn't get it done," he said. 
Michigan won the women's race, followed by Illinois. Wake 
Notre Dame's Department of Film, 'fdcvision, and 1hcatrc presents·· 

Forest finished a distant fourth to the Irish. 
Both Irish teams entered run­ners in the Gold race. in which mainly smaller schools compet­ed. 
Senior A.J. Andrassy, fresh­man Mark Moore, freshman Robbie Barany, sophomore Dan Bradley, sophomore Jake Watson, freshman Chris Rodriguez, sophomore Zach Einterz and sophomore Mike Popejoy competed on the men's side. 
Freshman Morgan Shulz, sophomore Julie Opet, fresh­man Becca Baumen, sophomore Ally Parker, senior Loryn King, freshman Heidi Hocha, sopho­more Mary Debevec and fresh­man Elena Brandwie competed on the women's side. 
The men's team also entered senior Tom Longo in the open race for individuals. 
Both Irish teams will next br in action Oct. 15 at the Pre­National Championships in Terre Haute. Ind. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Monday, October 3, 2005 

The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD 

ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS JUMBLE
JOCKULAR 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

JJ(Jf~~@1J]. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 

one letter to each square, He decked 
to form four ordinary words. that bum in 
2 rounds 
OPUCE 
j
I [I 

Q2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc 
r~r~·-t J 
10

CROSSAINTWORLD CHINTS ± ""3' FOR THE: C.HAMP, IT J 
www.jumble.com WAS A GOOD 
NIGHT FOR-'-­r:ASTOAN 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as

IJ I I I 
suggested by the above cartoon 
Answer: 

"[ I I I I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles: MOUSY OZONE IRONIC KISMET Answer: What the hotshot salesman wanted when he joined the Army-HIS "COMMISSION" 


CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 28 Conclude negotiations
Frank _, 

leader of the 33 Large feather Mothers of 37 KnightsInvention 
38 Unadorned 6 High Ottoman 
39 Second chance 
official 

for viewers 11 Boeing 747, e.g. 40 Scheduling abbr. 
14 Hawke of 41 Ambulance Hollywood sound 
15 Speck in the 42 Egg-shaped sea 43 Smelting waste 16 Lode deposit 44 Rand McNally product
17 Keep cool 45 Be just what's 
19 Break a needed

Commandment 48 "So there!" 
20 Fraternity 49 11-pointer, inhopeful blackjack21 Twisted in pain 

50 Slugger Willie 23 Gorillas and 
54 Woolen blanketssuch 58 "In" group 24 "The most 60 (The) bug 
trusted name in electronics" 61 Be a lulu sloganeer, once 64 B-ball official 
27 Three: Prefix 65 Amazed 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Comrrmnity. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
66 Shady retreat 67 Bumbler sa Overfull 69 Horses of a 
certain color 
DOWN 1 Zoo equine 2 Consumed 
eagerly 3 Developmental 
stage 4 Trajectories 5 Gambler's stake 6 Word with cutie 
or sweetie 7 _ Wednesday aWhole bunch 9 Cozy spots by 
the fire 10 Get-up 11 Tease 12 Lake near 
Niagara Falls 13 Watch over 18 and now 22 Morsel 25 Fairy tale 
dwelling 26 "Arabian Nights" hero 28 Upper house 
member: Abbr. 29 Heartbreaking 30 British 
nobleman 31 Zone 32 Optical device 33 Grad student's 
mentor 34 Big name in denim 
WILLSHORTZ 


35 Eurasia's 50 Small: Prefix 56 Backtalk Mountains 
51 Mideast's Gulf 
57 Trick-taking

36 Islamic leader of 
game with 32 41 Actor Mineo 52 1890's gold cards rush destination
43 Doo-wop group 
59 Mad king of the 

that sang in 53 Prophets 
stage

"Grease" 
54 Place to stick a 
62 Female sheep 

46 In other words comb, once 47 Polish Nobelist 55 Pet's tiny 63 Newsman Walesa tormentor Koppel 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame. IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name 
Address City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA L~·vr
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON TillS DAY: Ayumi Hamaski, 27: Kelly R1pa, 35: Sting, 54: Donna Karan, 57 
Happy nirthday: You arc wasting time that should be spent working toward a goal. Take your own ideas and thoughts and usc them rather than relying on someone else. Laziness is completely out of the question this year. Stop watching everyone else do their thing; it's time for you to get up and do yours. Your numbers arc 9, 13, 28, 29, 31, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Too much going on and too many different interests will.lead to mistakes that you can avoid. Daydreaming will be the enemy today, so keep your wits about you and concentrate. ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Everything will depend on how well you take care of yourself. A problem you face at work may bafllc you. Do a little research and you will be prepared to take care of it early next week. ••• GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Your creative mind and your ability to adapt will put you in the spotlight and keep everyone around you guessing. Show everyone what you have to offer.***** CANCER (,June 21-.July 22): You will have to be very careful how you handle personal issues today. Someone will argue with you, regardless of the position you take. Don't make changes at home if you don't have to. •• LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Gel out and do things in your community or m:ighborhood and meet interesting people. Someone from your pa~t will be on your mind. Stop procrastinating and get in touch. •• •• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your mind will be on work and your future. If you have an idea, act on it. You can make professional moves if you do your homework. ••• LIURA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't fret if you have promised to do too much for too many. Call in the troops and get some help. You need an outlet for your nervous energy anyway. ••• 
·SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): There may be too much going on undercover. Do not reveal your secrets. Take a chance on a financial deal. Ilc a diplomat, nul a diva. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Take charge of a community event and impress everyone you meet. A chance to connect with some innucntial people will help you move into more prominent circles. Remain a team player. •••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be erratic and uncertain about your future. Don't let it ruin your time with loved ones. Ile careful how you conduct yourself at work. • • AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Money is the name of the game and you arc 111 it to win. You will have lady luck in your comer and a chance to do something great. ••••• PISCES (l'cb. 19-M arch 20): Offer to entertain others and you will in tum be entertained. You have plenty to offer and everyone will sec how complex and intriguing you are. Love is very promising. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You arc whimsical, engaging and extremely intuitive. You arc an expert at getting others to do what you want and when. You have finesse, valor and a touch of magic that will result in great popularity and success. 
Eu~-:enia's Web Jite.\·: astroadvic·e.cnm./iJrjim. t!UI(flliala.\'t.com for c·mljidt•tJtial conwl/atlml.' 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, October 3, 2005 
page 28 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Up and down 
Team splits two games on road this weekend 
'l 
By KEN FOWLER Sporrs Writer 

The Irish took care of busi­ness Sunday. but Friday was another story for the No. 5 team in the country. 
After taking a 1-0 lead on No. 15 Marquette, Notre Dame allowed four unan­swered goals to the Golden Eagles, and the Irish suffered their first loss in Big East play since Oct. 6, 2002 -a 3-0 loss at the hands of West Virginia. 
Marquette's Alison Loughrin came off the bench for the Golden Eagles and scored the go-ahead goal for her team at 37:51. Loughrin 
TIM SULLIVANffhe Observer 

Molly Iarocci pursues a Cincinnati player on Sept. 23 in a 4-0 win for the Irish. Notre Dame see SPLIT/page 26 lost to Marquette but defeated South Florida this weekend. 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish give up 3-3 tie toWVU 
By KATE GALES Associate SportS Editor 
Two overtime periods weren't enough for a decisive conclusion on Sunday, as the Irish squandered a high offen­sive output and settled for a tie. 
Each time the Irish went ahead by a goal, West Virginia managed to answer almost immediately, resulting in a 3-3 tie through two overtime peri­ods. The tie put the Irish at 6­3-1 on the year (2-2-1 Big East). 
"We could consider our­selves a little unlucky not to take all the points. because I 
see TIE/page 24 

N 0 CROSS-COUNTRY 
Madia and Huddle lead the Notre Dame pack 
women's Blue race to lead their .result but said his team will every weekend," Piane said. "He's [practicing] right now. 
By CHRIS KHOREY 

team to a third place finish in continue to improve. "They'll get better." God willing, he'll be back for Sports Writer 
the Notre Dame Invitational Frontrunners Benninger and Notre Dame was also without our next meet." 
Friday at the Burke Memorial Tim Moore were competing in third runner Kaleb Van Ort, The third finisher for the Irish 
Together, Stephanie Madia Golf Course. their first race of the season who would have been expected was fifth-year senior Scan and Molly Huddle sprinted On the men's side, senior Kurt after Piane sent young lineups to finish near Moore, who took O'Donnell, who finished 18th at towards the finish. Benninger led the Irish with a to the Valparaiso Invitational lOth. 24:08. Freshmen Patrick Smyth 
The pair of Irish seniors time of 23:42 and a fifth-place and National Catholic "We didn't run Kaleb Van Ort was the fourth runner for the edged Michigan's Aly finish, as Notre Dame took sec­Championships. because he's coming off a stress Irish Friday, finishing 34th with Kohlmeyer by four seconds and ond. "They looked a little bit flat fracture injury. !f we had Kaleb a time of 24:32. Sophomore Dan one second, respectively, to take Irish men's head coach Joe because they haven't raced, but in there, we would have had the first two spots in the Piane was pleased with the in this sport you can't race four in the top 15," Piane said. see RUNNERS/page 26 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Thompson twins move ahead in All-Atnerican 
,_ By KYLE CASSILY Spom Writer 
Christian Thompson has it all. A mean baseline attack, a nasty drop shot and bulls-eye accuracy all mixed in with a natural flair for the game of tennis. And now. she has three crucial All­American wins under her belt. 
The Notre Dame junior on the women's tennis team completed a clean sweep of the pre-qualify­ing draw in the Riviera/ITA Women's All-American Championships this weekend. The Championships are the first of three events on the collegiate grand slam tour, where Thompson will join her sister Catrina in qualifying draw play on Tuesday. 
Christian Thompson started her run towards the later rounds with an opening round 6-3, 6-2 victory over Colorado State's Emily Kirchem. who is ranked 120th nationally. She then fol­lowed that up with a win over 
see TENNIS/page 21 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Irish take two road matches 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
It's been said before -the No. 10 Irish know they can do better. 
At times, they know they make mistakes they shouldn't and aren't aggressive when they should be. They know they can be more consistent. 
Still, after each nearly flaw­lessly-played match, it might seem as if the Irish are finally going to be happy with them­selves -like they'll finally give themselves a pat on the 
see IRISH/page 25 


en 
SlVIC CROSS eotmRY 
SMC VOI.lEYBAU. 
SMC SOCCER 
Nfl 
1-m LLI 

~ Belles take 18th 
Saint MaiY's 9 
z in race 
Tri-State

Bethel players used a 
Eli Manning threw 

height advantage to 
four touchdowns in a
a:c: :3 
The Belles blasted Tri­
win over the Rams. 

... (::1 The Belles ran to a 
overpower the Belles. 
top-20 finish in the 
State and hold onto 
~ 

Sean Earl Cake Front 
third in the division. 
= 
Invitational.
eLm ~ 

en 
page 23 
page 22

page 22 
page 18 







