
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOlUME 39: ISSUE 115 FRIDAY, APRil I, 2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Pope's precarious condition provokes worry 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Hnports that tho pope nH~nivml his last ritns surfaced Thursday afternoon, causing Catholics throughout the world to doubt tho stability of the S4­ynar-old pontiff's health. 
l'opn John Paul II dnvclopcd a high fovor Thursday due to a urinary tract infection, accord­ing to the Vatican. The eo m pI ica-tion 
See Also

occurred just 
one day after he "Pope suffers began receiving heart failure" nutrition from a !'ending tube. page 3 
Notre Dame associate profes­sor of law Vincent Hougeau 
said the administration of the last rites does not necessarily indicate that the pope's condi­tion is deteriorating to the point where death is inevitable. 
Many Catholics mistakenly believe the last rites are car­ried out just days before one's death, Hougeau said. However, changes in Catholic doctrine have redefined the scope of the sacrament to include not only the dying, but also tho sick ­the sacrament is now morn commonly referred to as the sacrament for the sick and dying. 
"The big thing to remember here is that the Church has changed the sacrament to include the sick and dying, so it is no longer associated with death," Hougeau said. "The last rites means that he is gravely 

Monk honored for diversity work 
example in Notre Dame's cultural and ethnic diversity." 
Stone said Notre Dame saw the most important advances in the University's history during Malloy's IS­year presidency. 
"When he took office in 1987, Monk articulated that promoting diversity and international charactnr was one of his top goals," she said. 
Stone said that just one year after taking office, Malloy oversaw a compre­hensive University-wide plan that increased the nurnbnr of both minority faeulty and students. 
From 1986 to 2004, minor­ity students on campus increased from 7. 7 percent to 16.6 percent, according to statistics provided by the Office of Institutional Hesearch. If international students are added to the statistic, the number increased from 8.1 percent to 25.1 percent. 
see MONK page 8 


By MADDIE HANNA A,sociatc News Editor 
Those who attended Thursday night's roeeption in the llesburgh Library honor­ing outgoing University President Father Edward Malloy's commitment to increasing diversity at Notre Dame got to enjoy more than the fourtoenth-l'loor Ilosburgh Penthouse's spec­tacular view of the sun set­ting over campus. 
Personal and sometimes humorous testaments to Malloy's character made by students, alumni, faculty and trustees were the highlights of the evnnt, which offered attendees tho chance to min­gle and chat one-on-one with an animated Malloy while noshing on hors d'oeuvres. 
"We've gathered to honor a great man and a personal role model of mine," Board of Trustees member Phyllis Stone said. "It's to celebrate both his leadership and his ill but not that his dnath is imminent." 
The popn has received tlw sacrament once before, aftnr hn was shot by a would-bn assas-· sin in 19S1. 
The Vatican has bnon brief in its supply of information on tlw pope's state. Even Univnrsity President Father Edward 
see POPE/page 8 

Student vehicles dam_aged 
By )EN ROWLING 
News Writer 
A snrins of vnhicln brnak-ins oceurrnd Thursday in Notre Damn's Dh, ()2 and C I campus parking lots. 
"Wn arn at thn prnliminary stage of investigation," Notre Dame Sncurity/Poli<~<~ assistant direetor Phillip Johnson said. 
Four studnnt. vehidns parked in tho D2 lot. worn vandalized, NDSP assistant dirnctor Chuck Hurley said. All of these auto­mobiles had a broknn passnn­gor or driver's side window and a missing stnroo system. The interior of each ear was dry, suggesting to the polie1~ that the break-ins or<·.urred after Wnd1wsday night's rain. 
Similarly, NI>SP found two brnak-ins in tlw ()(, studnnt. lot and one in thn C I lot. A vnhidn 
sec CARS/page 4 

Fresh faces take over as new student government leaders 
Baron, Shapell start their term today 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
Nt·w, Wrirn 
Sovnn wonks aftor being nominatnd studnnt body p r n s i d n n t -~~ I n c t a n d v i c e prnsidnnt-nloct for the 2005­06 s1·.hool year. Dave Baron and Lizzi Shappoll will final­ly hn able to romovo the 'olod' from thnir titles and assumn their positions as the chiof lnadnrs of the student body today. 
Thoy could not be more eager. Shappell and Baron, along with ehiof executive assistant Liz Kozlow. said they want their administra­tion to restore students' faith in the power of student gov-
see NO/page 9 


Mitros, Mci!duff ready for transition 
By NICOLE ZOOK Assistant News Editor 
Al't1w a bumpy ynar for Saint Mary's st.udnnt govnrnmnnt, ineoming studnnt body prnsidnnt Knllye Mitros and vim president Susan Mdldul1' arn looking for­ward to a smooth transition to tho year ahead. 
"We have bonn very imprnssnd by the work of student govern­ment this year, and wn look for­ward with gmat antidpation to building on the success of our prndecessors," Mitros said. 
Former student body presi­dent Sarah Catherine Whito and vice president Mary Pauline Moran eneountered roadbloeks in the form of controversy and 
see SMC/page 6 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Goodbye, Mitch 

Two weeks ago, I was sitting in LaFortune eating Subway with three of my friends. I looked down at my Sun Chips and immediately smiled. 
My friend, sitting across from me, didn't miss a beat. 
Bobby Griffin 
"But don't bother ringing it up, it's for a duck. There are Associate six ducks outside, Sports Editor and they all want Sun Chips," he said. 
Mitch Hedberg, the comedian who penned the "Ducks eat free at Subway" joke, as well countless others, was in many ways the next great thing in comedy until his untimely death Wednesday morning at 37 years old. 
Instead of writing 500 words about how important a figure he was in con­temporary comedy, I'm going to recount other memories of Mitch ­which, all in all, will do him greater justice anyway. 
The first time I heard Mitch, I was in my friend's car. "Bob, you gotta hear this guy, he's hilarious," he said. 
The CD was "Strategic Grill Locations" and I was hooked when Hedberg started ranting about Koalas. 
"My apartment is infested with Koala bears, it is the cutest infestation ever, way better than cockroaches. When I turn on the light a bunch of Koala bears scatter. I don't want them to, you know. I'm like, 'Hey hold on fellas, let me hold one of you -feed you a leaf."' 
It was that quirky sense of humor, comments that your lazy friend might make when you are sitting around watching TV that made him so hilari­ous. But it was his unprecedented delivery that made him memorable. 
Jokes rolled off Mitch Hedberg's tongue, in a way that cannot really be described without actually hearing him. 
"My friend was walking down the street and he said, 'I hear music.' As if there is any other way of taking it in. I tried to taste it, but it did not work." 
I remember buying both of his CO's shortly after hearing him, the other being "Mitch All Together," and playing them for my brother. 
I believe it was the joke about frozen banana that did it for Dan. 
"My friend asked me ifI wanted a frozen banana. I said, 'No, but I want a regular banana later, so, yeah."' 
I think Mitch Hedberg would be happy with his legacy. He never quite made the leap to the point where he was a household name, but he did impact anyone who ever listened to his album, went to see his show or watched him on television. 
That's not to say he wasn't on his way to bigger things (he had an HBO special in the works, which actually was his dream) but the way he made people smile was more important than any further success he could have accomplished. 
Mitch once said, "So, I sit at the hotel at night and I think of something that's funny. Or, ifthe pen is too far away, I have to convince myself that what I thought of wasn't funny." 
Well, Mitch, what you said was always funny. And your fans will remember that forever. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author ana not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgrij]i3@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­cion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism ac all rimes. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. [fwe have made a mistake, please contact us ac 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, Aprill, 2005 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE SPRING SPORT? 









John Thibodeau  Grant Van Eaton  Pat Hartendorp  Bethany Anglin  Mark Bemenderfer  Katie Killeen  
senior O'Neill  freshman Stanford  sophomore Sorin  freshman Welsh Family  junior Stanford  freshman Lyons  
"Frisbee dog contests. No idea why."  "Baseball, because the Sox are wicked awesome!"  "Catching golf balls on the quad."  "Naked mud wrestling."  "What sports? PSPjust came out. PlayStation Portable­ "Women's lacrosse-come see for yourself!"  


Fortune cookie numbers provide big lottery win 
DES MOINES, Iowa ­Dozens of people recently got an extra-special dessert with their Chinese food: a winning lottery number. 
A record 110 players won $500,000 and $100,000 prizes in Wednesday's Powerball drawing, most of whom apparently used the numbers included in a for­tune-cookie message. Ordinarily the multistate lot­tery expects only four tickets to win at the Match 5 prize level. 
Several winners in a half­dozen states revealed that they got the winning number 
TODAY a:: 
from a fortune cookie, said Doug Orr, marketing director with the West Des Moines­based Multi-State Lottery Association, which operates Powerball. 
One ticket, bought by a South Pittsburg, Tenn., family, had all six winning numbers to win the jackpot. 
Confused cops swarm woman after birth In van 
KETTERING, Ohio -A woman rushing to a hospital to give birth hit a few stops along the way -first at a gas station where she delivered the baby herself, then when confused police ordered her out of the car at gunpoint. 
Debbie Coleman, whose 3­and 4-year-old daughters were asleep in the back seat, pulled over at a gas station just after midnight Tuesday. 
A customer tried to give police a heads-up about Coleman's situation, but a mix-up involving the license plate number had them thinking the van was stolen. 
With guns drawn, officers ordered her out of the van with her hands up. 
"I opened the door and said, 'I just had a baby' and just let them see everything," she said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LLI 
::::c 
LLI

;: ~ 
..... 
II( 
(,) 


.9 HIGH 57 HIGH 
42 52 LOW 50 LOW 32 35 



woo!!!" 
IN BRIEF 

Latin Expressions 2005, entitled "Raices," will take place at 7 p.m. at Palais Royale. Bus transportation to the sold out event begins at Library Circle at 6 p.m. 
ND Cinema will sponsor the critically acclaimed film "Hotel Rwanda" tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The 2005 Annual Student Peace Conference, "Crossing Boundaries in the Name of Peace," will take place today and Saturday at the Hesburgh Center for International Peace Studies. Registration for the conference is from 12 
p.m. to 5 today. The keynote speech will begin at 8 p.m. tonight and the conference will continue from 8:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Saturday. 

RecSports and Notre Dame Food Services will sponsor the annual Spring Run to benefit the Building Together/Christ­mas in April campaign Saturday from 11 a.m. to noon. Registration for the 5K and 10K runs and 2-mile walk is $6 in advance and $10 the day of the race. Participants will receive refreshments and aT-shirt. 
"Meet Me at the Avenue," Saint Mary's accepted students day, will take place all day Sunday. The day includes campus tours, meals and pro­fessor and coach meet-and­greets for accepted high school students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 66 I 43 Boston 48 I 40 Chicago 48 I 34 Denver 58 I 36 Houston 62 I 39 Los Angeles 83 154 Minneapolis 50 1 30 New York 57 I 46 Philadelphia 62 I 48 Phoenix 83 I 55 Seattle 52 I 40 St. Louis 54 I 36 Tampa 82 166 Washington 65 1 54 
-
Friday, April I, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
VATICAN CITY 


Pope suffers heart failure during treattnent for infection 
Pontiff's condition called 'very serious' 
A.mKiatcd Press 
Vi\TIC/\N CITY -Popn John l'aul II sufT1~rnd lwart failure during trnatmnnt for a urinary tract infnr.tion and was in "vnry snrious" condition on Friday. tlw Vatican said. 
Vatican spoknsman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said in a statn­rnnnt that the pope, who was being trnated at the VatiGan, was given cardio-respiratory assistancn after his hnart stoppnd Thursday aftnrnoon. 
"This morning tho condition of thn lfoly Father is vnry seri­ous," tho statnmont said. 
II o w n v ~~ r. i t s a i d t h at t h e pope had participated in a 6 
a.m. Mass J.'riday and that tlw popn was ·:.conscious, lucid, and snrmw. 
Thn pontiff's Jwalth dndined sharply artnr lw dnv1doped a high fnvnr Thursday brought on hy llw infection. llis wish to nHnain at tlw Vatiean was rnsJHWtnd, Navarro-Valls said. 
Tlw pontiff was allnnd11d to by llw Vatican nwdical team, and providnd with "all the appropriatn therapeutic provi­sions and Gardio-respiratory assistance," the statement said. 
Tho statement Gonfirmed previous rnports that the pope had rneeived the sacrament 
for the sick and dying on Thursday nvnning. 
i\t the ndgn of St. Peter's Square, hundrnds of people gathered early Friday, con­cerned about the fragile pope. !\ few knelt on the Gobble­stones to pray, others wrapped blankets around themselves as they kept vigil through the night. 
"There's nothing we Gan do but pray. We're all upset," said Agriculture Minister Giovanni Alemanno, who was in the Growd. 
Formerly Galled the last rftes, the sacrament is often misunderstood as signaling imminnnt dnath. It is per­formed, however, not only for patients at the point of death, but also for those who are very siek -and it may be rep11ated. 
The Home daily La Hepubbliea reported Friday that the sacrament was administnrod by John Paul's elosest aide, Polish Archbishop Stanislaw Dziwisz, who serves as his private sec­retary. I>ziwisz had given the pontiff the same sacrament on Feb. 24 just before the pope underwent a tracheotomy to insert a tube in his throat at Gemelli Polydinic, the news­paper said. 
AGeording to its aGGount, John Paul had attended Mass Thursday morning in his pri­vate Ghapel, then did paper­work !'rom an armchair. Abruptly, at 6:45 p.m., John Paul turned ghostly pale and his blood pressure plummeted, the newspaper said. 
i\f'ter antibiotics were administered, the Italian news agnney Apeom reported with­out citing any sources, John Paul's condition was "stable." ANSA, another Italian news agenGy, said the pope "seems to showing a first positive reaction" to antibiotie therapy. 
At the Gemelli hospital, an emergenGy room ehief said there were no plans to admit John Paul "at the moment," ANSA reported. 
While the pope's Gondilion deteriorated suddenly, the Vatican medical staff appeared eonfident it eould handle the erisis with the sophisticated medical equip­ment installed for the pontiff. 
As the Growd gathered to keep vigil near the pope, poliGe kept them off St. Peter's Square, forGing them to con­gregate at the edges of the giant plaza.
"i was in the ear and I heard on the radio about the grave condition of the pope. I imme­diately thought I would Gome to St. Peter's," said Antonio Ceresa, a Homan. 
As news of the pope's latest health crisis swept the world, the pontiff's spokesman, Navarro-Valls told The Assoeiated Press by telephone 

that "the Holy Father today was struGk by a high fevnr eaused by a confirmed infne­tion of the urinary tract." 
The pontiff was started on "an appropriate" Gourse of antibiotiGs, Navarro-Valls said. "The mediGal situation is being strictly controlled by the Vatican mediGal team that is taking care or him... 

Lights in tho papal apart­ment abovn St. Peter's Square were on until about 11 p.m. Thursday, generally well past the papal bedtime. The light remained on in the i\postoliG PalaGe's nursing station on the same floor as the pope's apartmeqt. 


Friday, April 1, 2005
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Panel dicusses political bias in mainstream tnedia 
I William Donohue, president and CEO of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights, speaks in the Eck Center Auditorium. 

Writers emphasize necessity for honesty 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame l'aeulty and distin­guished guests debated bias in the media and utTered sugges­tions to students interested in preserving truth in journalism Thursday evening in the Eek Center Auditorium. 
A panel diseussion entitled "After Objectivity: What Moral Norms Should Govern News Reporting?" was presented by the Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethies & Publie Poliey and The Thomas J. White Center on Law & Government. 
Panelists included William Donohue, president and CEO of the Catholie League for Religious and Civil Rights; Kenneth Woodward, religion editor and senior writer for Newsweek magazine; Mareo Darbazzi, U.S. correspondent for ANSA, an Italian news agency; and Matt Sturin of the media relations division of Notre Dame Public Relations and Information and former editor of the Boston Globe. 
Robert Dunikoski, editor-in­chief of the Notre Dame Journal of Law, opened the event by deseribing the goal of his publi­cation to examine public policy with Judea-Christian values. 
Paolo Carozza, panel modera­tor and member of the Notre Dame Law School faculty, opened by addressing the issue of bias and honesty in the news. 

"There have been some very serious problems in the area of media," he said. 
Carozza said problems range from personal failings of reporters to efl'orts of systematic attempts to fabricate entire per­spectives. 
Panelists deseribed today's media and the role of balanced news coverage. 
Donohue, the first speaker, opened his talk by saying although many postmodernists today disregard the coneept of truth, the idea is essential in journalism. 
"As far as I'm concerned, .if you're a journalist and not inter­ested in pursuing the truth, then you should leave," he said. 
Donohue said today's society is almost worse than in the past in its journalistic integrity because the climate makes inconsistency and dishonesty seem aeeeptable. He did say, however, that there is more accountability today and that one is "less likely to get away with it." 
Donohue said consistency is crucial in reporting and cited many examples of past journal­ists who were "ideologically dis­turbed." 
Donohue also addressed the issue of liberal bias in the media, citing statisties that demonstrat­ed a strong liberal tilt. 
"We have this enormous gap of perception of people in media," he said. 'They think of themselves as moderate." 
Woodward then spoke about the role of different news medi­ums in society today. 
"For better or worse, we're stuek with newspapers, maga~ zines, television, radio," he said. "You can opt out of it, but how will you know what is going on?" 
While he does not use the word objeetivity, as it "suggests disinterestedness," he does believe in intelligent subjectivity, well-informed journalists, aeeu­raey and finding truth and meaning in a story. 
"Objectivity should mean and can mean no advocacy in the reporting," Woodward said. 
Woodward also said that mag­azine writers and editors look for a story line and controlling themes. 
"Journalism is not a science and not an art, but it is a craft," he said. "Morality in journalism has mueh to do with our com­mitment to the language." 
Bardazzi then gave a short presentation entitled "Four Eleetions and a Funeral," in which he diseussed four elee­tions in the past year in whieh the media incorreetly predicted outcomes. He cited the Democratic primary elections, the presidential election in Afghanistan, the 2004 U.S. pres­idential election and the Jan. 3 Iraq presidential election as instances where foreign eorre­spondents "failed in just twelve months to tell the story right." 
Bardazzi said many in Europe expected John Kerry to win the 
U.S. presidential eleetion in November. 
Cars 
continued from page 1 
located in D6-South had a broken left rear passenger window. However, no items were reported missing. In D6­North, another automobile was noticed with a broken window. A construction employee found his ear parked in C1 with a broken window. Tools were missing from the vehicle. 

Johnson said he does not think the victimized students in Thursday's episodes were· related to each other. He clar­ified that vehicles are typical­ly targeted by degree of opportunity. 
Upon discovering the vehi­cles, Johnson said NDSP attempted to inform affected students. The police depart­ment left a voicemail for each victimized student. 
One of the reported victims holds a high editorial position at the Observer. In early February, another highly­ranked Observer editor's car was vandalized in a similar case. 
At this time, NDSP does not have a lead on possible sus­
pects. Hurley said NDSP is  Johnson  said  NDSP  will  pus and the parking lots," he  
conversing with the county  remain especially watchful  said.  
and city poliee departments  ·during their regular rounds.  
to  further investigate the  "We will continue to be vigi­ Contact Jen Rowling at  
matter.  lant on our patrolling of cam­ jrowling@nd.edu  

Tour Guide Manual. Page 132. 
Which ofthefollowing is not a campus landmark? 


A. B. 


C. D. The Office of Undergraduate Admissions is now hiring tour guides for the summer, fall, and spring. Applications are available at admissions.nd.edujtourguide.pdf or in 220 
Main Building and are due April 8th. Questions? Contact Jill or Gabe at 631-7505. 
"The Italians went to bed sure that John Kerry would be the next president of the United States," he said. "It was impossi­ble [for it to go another way I and so we believed that story-and we were wrong." 
Bardazzi also said journalists are often "detached from the real men," which can lead to incorrect ideas presented in their writing. 
Bardazzi concluded by saying there are two ways to be a jour­nalist. 
"Either we inform to set peo­ple free or inform to produee consent," he said. "We need to stay in front of these realities." 
Sturin began by saying objec­tivity ean only be diseussed in a country with a free press sys-
tern. "You just 'hope the reporters get the facts straight," he said. 
Sturin said the news opera­tions department gets plenty of things wrong that are not just ideologieal. 
"In my time as a journalist, 80 pereent of criticism that a news­paper reeeived was colored by the prism of the eritie," Starin said. "Passion and opinion in a reporter are not, per se, a bad thing if controlled." 
Starin discussed liberal bias in the media, adding that when he took over as editor of the Boston Globe in 1993, he set out· to change its obvious liberal bias. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April l, 2005 CoMPilED FROM TIIE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Deaths decline as attacks decrease 
BAC;IIDAD, Iraq -Insurgent attacks in Iraq have fallen dramatically since the .Jan. 30 elections, and the number of' U.S. dnaths reported this month dropped to the lowest in a year. 
But thn news isn't all good. Militants are focusing tlwir attacks on Iraqi government and security officials as the new loaders of' Iraq assume a greater role in their fragile nation. 
Both U.S. and Iraqi officials agree that attacks overall have fallen since the Jan. :HJ nlnctions, although it is unelear if the tro1HI is just a temporary lull as militants change tactics, or a sign that the insur­gency is weakening. 
Michcwl O'llanlon. a senior f'nllow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, which has been tracking tho insurgency, said attacks against U.S. forces have dropped by at least 25 percent since last fall, when 
U.S. oiTieials launched a major offensive against the insurgent stronghold of Fallujah. Attacks thon ranged from HO to 1JO a day, O'llanlon said. 
First lady visits freed women 
KABUL, Afghanistan -Under heavy pro­tl~ction in this dusty, dangerous capital, l.aura Bush on Wodnnsday talked with Afghan wonwn freed from Taliban repres­sion and urged greatnr rights. She nxprnssed high hopes, envisioning a day wlwn tourists would !'lock horn for vaca­tions. 
Thern were reminders of' war at every turn of Mrs. Bush's visit. U.S. soldiers in camouflage fatigues manned M-Ml rilles at both ends of four transport helieopters that flow tlw lirst lady and her entourage to events around Kabul. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Court increases job protection 
WASIIINC;TCJN -The Supreme Court nxpandnd job protections for roughly half the nation's work force Wednesday, ruling that federal law allows people 40 and over to lile age bias daims over salary and hiring even if employers never intendnd any harm. 
The decision eases the legal thrnshold for about 75 million middle-aged and older peo­ple to eontend in court that a policy has a disproportionately hurtful ell'ect on them. 
On the other hand, the ruling makes clear nmployers still will prevail if' they can cite a reasonabln explanation for their policies, such as cost-cutting. 
The decision was applauded by advocates for older worknrs. 
Parish to reopen after protests, vigils 
WEYMOUTII, Mass.-The Homan Catholic parish that sparked a wavo of' protests against church closings in the Boston Arehdioeose will reopon, tho archbishop announeml Thursday. 
Thn dodsion by Archbishop Sean O'Malley is a vktory for parishioners who staged an around-tho-dock vigil inside the St. Albert tlw Great church in Weymouth. 
Tho church is ono of three O'Malley has allowod to stay open after ordering them dosml. 
Parishioners carrying gold and yellow bal­loons gatlwred outside the suburban Boston church entrance and hugged. 
lOCAL NEWS 
Forklift overturns, kills worker 
Bt•:NTON, Ind. -A delivery man died after tlw forklift he was driving overturned and landPd on him. 
c;reg 1.. llarman, 53. was pronouncod dead on thn semw aftnr tlw acddnnt Wednesday aftnrnoon. said Anthony G. Coleman, an l•:lkhart County d1~puty coroner. lie died ol' massive lwad injurins. 
IIannan was making a dnlivery at a lawn­earn company in tlw town about 15 miles soutlwast of South Bend when tho accident ocrurrod. 
Schiavo's death moves many 
Political figures continue to question the protection ofindividuals in the legal system 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON­President Bush on Thursday urged the coun­try to honor Terri Schiavo's memory by working to "build a culture of life" while House Majority Leader Tom DeLay said "the men responsible for this" will be called to account. 
The Florida woman, who sull'ered severe brain darn­ago after a heart attack 15 years ago, died Thursday. The foeding tube that had been keeping her alive was removed with a judge's approval on March 1 H. 
DeLay condemned the judges who at both the state and federal level deelined to order that Schiavo be kept alive artifi­cially. 
"This loss happened bocause our legal system did not protect the people who need protection most, and that will chango," _the Texas Republican said. "The time will come for the men responsible for this to answer for their behavior, but not today. Today we grieve, we pray, and we hope to God this fatn never befalls another." 
Speaking with reporters later in Houston, DeLay said lawmakers "will look at an arrogant and out of control judiciary that thumbs its nose at Congress and the President." 
Asked if that ineluded the possibility of the House bringing impeachment charges against judges involved in the Schiavo case, DeLay said, "There's plenty of time to look into that." 
"I never thought I'd see the day when a U.S. judge stopped feeding a living American so that they took 14 days to die," he added. 
White House press secre­tary Scott McClellan dndined to sign on to judi­cial criticism. "We would have preferred a difl'erent decision from the courts ... but ultimately we have to follow our laws and abide by the courts," hn said. 
Bush offered words of' 


comfort and praise for Schiavo's "families" -her parents, Bob and Mary Schindler, and her hus­band, Miehael Schiavo. 
The two sides battled for years ovnr Terri Schiavo's fate, with her parents believing she could improve and her husband insisting she would not have wished to be kept alive artificially. State court-appointed doc­tors ruled Schiavo was in a persistent vegetative state, with no real consciousness or chance of recovery. 
"I appreciate the example of grace and dignity they have displayed at a diflieult time," the president said of Schiavo's relatives. "I urge all those who honor Terri Schiavo to continue to work to build a culture of life where all Americans are welcomed and valued and 
protected, especially those 
who live at the mercy of 
others." 
Other Washington ligures 
who were deeply involved 
in the extraordinary federal 
intervention in Schiavo's 
case, particularly 
Republicans, also weighed 
in on her passing. 
Senate Majority Leader . Bill Frist, H-Tonn., said her 
death was a "regrettable 
loss of life." 
House Judiciary Chair­
man James Sensenbrenner, 
H-Wis., called on Congress 
to pass the broader legisla­
tion favored by llouse 
Hepublicans but rejected 
when lawmakers and the 
White House compromised 
to foeus only on Schiavo. 
The earlier bill, giving 
jurisdiction to federal 

courts, would apply to any easn in which there are questions about withhold­ing food or medical treat­ment from an incapacitated person. 
"Terri's will to live should serve as an inspiration and impetus for action," Sensenbrenner said. 
The White llouse didn't rule out support from tho president for new legisla­tion. 
"Obviousty we would look at it if it came to our desk," McClellan said. 
By eontrast, in the hours immediately after Schiavo's death, Demoerats -who have trnadnd carefully in the ease for fear of getting clobbered on the "values" issues that hurt them in last year's elections -mostly kept a low profile. 
IRAQ 

Suicide car bomber targets shrine 
Associated Press 
BAGIIDAD -A suicide ear bomber blew himself up Thursday near an Islamic shrine, killing five Iraqis in the latest attack on Shiite Muslim pilgrims marking a major religious holiday. 
The blast in Tuz Khormato, 55 miles south of Kirkuk, killed three civilians, induding a child, and two soldiers helping guard the shrine, police reportnd. Sixteen pnople were wounded. hospital ol'licials said. 
Fighters from th1~ Sunni Muslim-led insurgency staged a string of attacks on Shiite pilgrims in the days leading up to the festival, which marks the end of a 40-day mourning period for Imam Hussein, grandson of the Prophet Muhammad and one of Shiites' most important saints. 

The day's biggest gathering was in the holy city of Karbala, where hun­dreds of thousands of pilgrims visit­ed two shrines, marched in honor of llussein and beat their chests with thnir lists in a sign of mourning. 
Seeking to head ofT attacks, police in Karbala dosed streets to vehides, set up checkpoints and frisked peo­ple for weapons. No major incidents were reported. 
Late Wednesday, gunmen ambushed a truck carrying pilgrims near llillah, 60 milns south of Baghdad, and killed onn pnrson, and an attack earlier in the day killnd a pilgrim in southern Iraq. On Monday, two attacks on pilgrims left !'our dead, induding two police offi­cers. 
Ukrainian Prnsident Viktor Yushchenko, mnanwhile, said his country's troops will l<~ave Iraq by year's end. 
r--------------------------------------------~----------­
page 6 The Observer+ NEWS Friday, April 1, 2005 
Speaker addresses retirement 
SMC grad advises students to save 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
In a presentation born out of the "Justice f(>r All Ages" confer­ence in the fall, Saint Mary's alumna Jane Ann Schiltz spoke at the College Thursday about the importance of planning for old age and the benefits of long term care policies. 
Schiltz works for Northwestern Mutual in Milwaukee, Wis. and is the 2004-05 Shannon Scholar. The Shannon Scholar program was established in 1993 by business professor Bill Shannon in order to bring graduates to campus to share their professional experi­ences. 
Schiltz referred to the current middle-aged generation as the "sandwich generation" and said those who fall into this group face challenges unlike any known before. She and other members of the "sandwich gen­eration" are having children later in life and are then finding themselves stuck between their aging parents and young chil­dren, Schiltz said. 
"We have to deal with issues with our parents . . . while at the same time we are dealing with issues with our children," she said. 
Current middle-aged people are burdened with paying for their parents' care, Schiltz said, while saving for their children's education and contributing to their own retirement fund. 
Schiltz said individuals must think long term in order to suffi­ciently plan for their own care once they can no longer live independently. She emphasized the importance of having a "durable power of attorney" ­someone to make critical deci­sions for you if you are incapaci­tated. 
Schiltz also advised those in attendance to take inventory of their estates and maintain an updated will. People need to dis­cuss and express their wishes explicitly in order to avoid later confusion and emotional dis­tress, she said. 
The Saint Mary's alumna related a personal story in which her mother-in-law suffered a stroke. The only exi.:;ting copy of her will was locked in a safety deposit box. Her children found the key, but because the will was inaccessible, they did not have legal power to open the box and retrieve it. 

"Having these discussions early, rather than later, allows everyone to be more comfort­able with the situation," Schiltz said. 
According to Schiltz, it is never too early to begin considering who to appoint as your power of attorney and to create a written document addressing any issues that might arise in times of cri­sis. 
Schiltz said long term care insurance has been growing in both popularity and quality in recent years as the average life span lengthens. 
She also advised the audience to consider details before mak­ing an investment in long-term care insurance, such as whether you want at home care or nurs­ing home care and how much such care costs in your area. The earlier one buys a plan, she said, the better the fmancial deal they will be able to acquire. 
'The sooner you do this, the better off you are," Schiltz said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

SMC 
continued from page 1 

protests against the Pride Week shirt and the approval of a gay/straight alliance on campus. Mitros and Mcllduff observed and realized the importance of achieving their main platform goals -especially integrating diversity awareness into student government -and said they "firmly believe" each goal can be accomplished by the end of their term. 
"We have already begun to work on many of these !platform] issues," Mitros said. "During the selection process for IBoard of Governance] we interviewed sev­eral candidates for the newly created position of Health and Wellness Commissioner 
and are "We have already begun Mcllduff hope extremely to work on many of to inspire pas­happy with our sion for Saint
these [platform] issues." 
Mary's among "We have students during also made Kellye Mitros their term by 
plans for bring­SMC student body president p r o m o t i n g 
choice. 

ing a speaker on diversity to our Student Government retreat in the hopes of making all mem­bers of Student Government more aware of sensitive issues.'~ 
Mitros and Mclldufi also plan to provide stronger student rep­resentation to College adminis­tration and to work with the new Vice President of Admissions and Enrollment Management to increase enrollment and reten­tion. 
The College is currently searching for candidates to fill the role of Vice President of Admissions and Enrollment Management, and the Comissioner Annie Davis, who will sit in on the search commit­tee. 
Another challenge unique to the upcoming administration is that of integrating the new Student Center into campus life. Mitros said the pair intends to advocate the new facility as "a women's center that promotes a sense of community." 
"With the opening of the new Student Center, the women involved in forming the women's center and defining its role on ca1,11pus have been working furi­ously to become comfortable in their new space while planning for the future of the organiza­tion," she said. "As members ol' the committee, Susan and I are extremely excited to see the progress these passionate women have been making." 
Mitros also 
said she and 
understanding and apprecia­tion of the College's history. 
"Through our work during Inauguration Week, Susan and I have realized the need and the interest on the part of students to Jearn about our history as a col­lege and the history of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross," she said. "We have begun to plan a series of lectures throughout the coming school year to teach the Saint Mary's community about the amazing history of our college and of the women who have played an inte­gral role in making our college what it is today." 

Mitros/Mellduff team will have to work to represent student needs Contact Nicole Zook at through BOG Admissions zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

y-.---··

I FULL CALENDAR OF EVENTS AT: '""'---~·ND.EDU/ ""I?SAI festival_j Apri I 4-9, 2005 
A Week of Global Warming brought to you by 
ISSA * Notre Dame Food Services * GSU * Le Cercle Francais * Department of East Asian Languages and Literatures * Hammes Bookstore* Hesburgh Library* OLA *Athletics Department* University Village * Pakistan Student Association * Legends * Snite Museum of Art * Chinese Friendship Association * Russian Club * IWC * Sahaja Yoga Club *Alumni Association and the students and scholars of over 100 nations! 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Friday, April I, 2005 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,503.76 -37.17 

jones" 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,013 167 • 2,216,587,970 

AMEX 1.459.70 +l0.20 NASDAQ 1,999.23 -6.44 NYSf 7,167.53 +9.03 S&P 500 I, I 80.59 -0.82 NIKKfi(Tokyo) I 1.668.95 0.00 fTSf IOO(London) 4,894.40 -6.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  -0.44  -0.16  36.57  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFI)  +0.04  +0.01  24.17  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -0.78  -0.14  17.89  
MCIINC (MCIP)  +1.84  +0.45  24.90  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.11  -0.26  23.23  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.85  . -0.41  47.66  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -1.36  -0.62  44.96  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.95  -0.83  41.74  
3-MONTH BILL  -1.45  -0.40  27.22  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1_.41  55.40  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +1.60  431.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.05  96.25  
Excha  Rates  

YEN I 07.1100 EURO 0.7706 POUND 0.5292 CANADIAN$ 1.2100 
IN BRIEF 
AIG admits improper transactions 
NI<:W YOHK -;\mid widening government probns into its nnaneial practices, insurance giant ;\mnrican lntnrnational Group Inc. acknowlndgml Wndrwsday it had improperly hookml transactions with a unit of Bnrkshire Hathaway Inc. that artil'icially boosted its 
rnSI~rVI1S. 
;\((; also said that it had not yet completed an in-house rnvinw of its accounting and would havn to dnlay liling its annual rnport until April :HJ. Nnw York-basnd ;\((; earlier had said it expected to file tim report on March 31. 
Tlw disdosures ramo as thn Securities and l·:xchangn Commission and New York Attorney < ;erwral l<:liot Spitznr were preparing to quns­tion ;\l(;'s formnr chin!' nxneutive officer, Maurice "Hank" <;ronnlwrg, and Bnrkshirn Hathaway's chairman and CEO, billionaire invnstor Warren Bufl'ett, next month about tho controVfH'sial rninsuranen dnal. Buffett is to spnak. with invnstigators on April 11, and (;rnnnbnrg tlw following clay. 

Car loans exceed worth of trade-ins 
Nl·:w YOHK -A growing number of new ear buynrs are finding they owe more on their existing car loans than the vehidns are worth as trado-ins. 
Tho phnnomonon, known as being "upside down" 1m a loan, is the result or a eonllunnce or ehangos in thn 'ways ;\mnrieans buy and linane1~ tlwir whidos. 
To IIPgin with, tho prices of new cars and l.nu~ks havn bonn hold down as manuraeturnrs ofl'or ir11~11ntives and robatos to lure purehasers. ;\s now ear prices flattnn, so do rnsale values. Buyers, IIH1anwhilo, are ehoosing increasingly longnr-tnrm loans, sometimes oxtended over S4 months, to rmluce monthly paymonts. 
Tho result is that a consumer who trades in a 1~ar that isn't fully paid ror can .one! up wrap­ping tlw loan hangover into the financing for a new ear, greatly ineroasing the cost. Or, if a ear is dnstroyml in an aeciclent before it's paid ofl', tlw insurancn sottlenwnt may not rully cover the outstanding loan. 
Borkshiro Hathaway has said that Burrett was not awaro of how the transactions worn structured "or on any improper use or pur­pose" of the transaetions. 
Oil rises above $55 a barrel 
Goldman Sachs warns prices may steadily increase to $105 before dropping 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO -Crude oil ruturns rose sharply at thn Now York Mercantile Exchango Thursday. allor a Wall Street firm 'prodictocl oil prieos could hit $105 a barrnl. 
Meanwhile, soybean pricos foil sharply as specu­lators sold. 
May !Tude ruturos gained $1.41 to settle at $55.40 a harn1l. 
In a widely publieiznd rosoareh note released Thursday, Goldman Sachs analysts said oil markets may havn entered the early stages of a "supor spike" period that could see priees rising as high as $105 a barnd before erimping. demand. 
Goldman Sachs is a major player in the oil marht thmugh its Goldman Sachs Commodities lndox, which tracks. oil and other com­modity rutures. 
Crude futures, already poised to movo higher fol­lowing a sharp recovery lato Wednesday, reacted strongly to the report. 
"Wo had a lot of bullish (sentiment) built into the market. and that report accentuated it," said Jim llitterbuseh, president of Hitterbuseh & Associates in Galena, IlL 

Carl Larry, an analyst at that they ean go, however, skidded late in to the ses­1.420 billion. USDA's mar­Barclays Capital in New remains up in the air. While sion, completely reversing keting year bngins on Sopt. York, said the market over­speculators continue to bid sharp gains seen earlier in 1. reacted to the report. "It up futures on expectations the day. Although tho planting fig­was definitely an overreac­of an imbalance in supply May soybeans slipped ure was eonsidnrnd mildly tion. considering the size of and demand, some analysts 13.5 cents to $6.2750 a boarish, tho stoeks data crude inventories," which caution that rising invento­busheL suggostnd demand for soy­stand well above their his­ries will eventuallY. cateh up Late-day speculative sell­beans was higher than prn­toric average levnls, he with the market. ing erased solid gains viously thought. That said. April gasoline futures_ established earlier in the helped to lift. soybeans and 
Still, report came at a rose 5.88 cents to settle at session following the attractnd initial buying time when eoneerns about $1.(,549 a gallon after set­release of government data. intemst. tightening U.S. petroleum ting a record high of Tho U.S. Department of llowevilr, analysts pointed product supplies have $1.6750 a gallon. Agriculture said plantings out with Thursday bning moved to the forefront, April heating oil rose 5.10 this coming season could the last day of the month eclipsing the bearish efl'ects cents to $1.6576 a gallon. reach 73.910 million acres, and tho fiscal quarter, firms of growing erude oil inven­The contract also set a slightly above analysts' esti­usnd tlw day to square tlwir tories. With petroleum record high of $1.67 a gal­mates of 73.510 million. books and takn profits on products rallying, traders lon. Both contracts expired The quarterly stocks report. winning positions. said erude rutures eould Thursday.. which details domestic and Tho lossos in soyboans well elimb back to their May natural gas rose 19.3 foreign demand for the inllunneml corn and wheat, record high of $57.60 a cents to $7.653 per million crop's second quarter, came which also pan~cl early barrel reached earlier this British thermal units. in under expectations at gains, although corn man­month. Soybean futures at the 1.381 billion bushels, ver­aged to hang on to minimal 
Jlow mueh higher than Chieago Board of Trade sus the analyst estimate of gains. 

Company shakeup spurs resignations 
with two co-presidents, Morgan The details of his now role worn not
Associated Press 

Stanley veterans Stephen Crawford dear. NEW YOHK -There was more fall­and Zoe Cruz. In a statement Tuesday, Morgan out from Morgan Stanley's manage-Meanwhile, the firm's former chair­Stanley said Crawford and Cruz would 
·ment shakeup Wednesday, as the man and former president aro calling holp provide new oversight or the com­investment bank's global head of insti­for the ouster of Purcell himself, say­pany's institutional sn<·.uritins and tutional equity trading resigned, join­ing the shakeup he engineered was investment management opnrations. ing a number of other high-ranking not in the best interest of the company. However, a group of former execu­executives who have walked out. Perhaps to help reassure Wall tives and major shareholders, led by 
A company spokeswoman confirmed Street, the company promoted one of former Chairman Parker Gilbert and the departurn of Guru Hamakrishnan. its foremost investment bankers, former President Hobert Scott, warned !lis decision to leave camo a clay after Joseph Perella, to vice chairman; he that thn restructuring eould result in the resignations of' his boss, John P. will report directly Purcell. Perella, a the loss of other executives. Havens, the head of the Institutional highly regarded dealmaker, most The group also released a Iotter, Equity Division, and Vikram S. Pandit, recently served as chairman of elated Mareh 3, sent to the current president and chief operating oflicer of Morgan Stanley's Institutional Morgan Stanlny board calling for its Institutional Securities Group. Securities Group. He's also been a Purenll's departurl). 
The wave of exits follows Chief leading member of a small group of The group blamed Purcell for tho Executive Philip Purcell's decision to senior bankers that focused on the company's lagging stoek prien and replace President Stephan Ne~house firm's most high profile transactions. financial performance. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, April 1, 2005 


Pope 
continued from page I 
Malloy said he felt uncertain about the exact condition of the pope. 
"It sounded like he was tak­ing a turn for the worse," Malloy said. "It's awfully hard to sort out the degree of severi­ty." 
Evening vespers were held at Corby Hall for John Paul II Thursday night, Malloy said. 
Rougeau said John Paul II's resilience -rumors of his impending death have been circulating for years -could be viewed as a manifestation of his firm belief in the sanctity of 
human life from "Life is not really sad," conception until Balbierz said.
meaningless
natural death. "He is a great
because we are in
"The pope has person and we tried to get pain. We need to should say some Catholics to be prayers."
respect people at 
aware that suffer­Junior Jennifer
all stages." 
ing is a part of De Angelo life," Rougeau attended a Mass said. "Life is not Fr. Richard Rougeau said by John meaningless Paul II while
law school 
because we are in pain. We need to respect people at all stages." 
The pope's precarious state has also sparked debate about the existence of his living will, a document that would outline whether or not he wants meas­ures to be taken to sustain his life should he reach a near­death state. Catholics are only left to speculate since the Vatican has remained silent on the subject. 
"There is some controversy between theologians and the Vatican on the issue of euthanasia," Rougeau said. "But in the pope's case, unless it was pretty definite that there was no possibility of recovery, and even then I'm not sure, I think he would be against not taking measures to sustain his life." 
Nevertheless, measures are being taken on campus to pre­pare for the possibility of the pope's death. 
Father Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministry, said he has met with other priests to plan a special mass that will take place if the pope passes on. 
"We will have a celebration of his life," Warner said. "It will be a mass in gratitude for his service to the Church. We will have cards with his pic­ture." 
Warner said he predicts such a mass will attract not only the Notre Dame community but also residents of the greater South Bend area. 
Several Notre Dame students, like many Catholics the world over, are worried that the preparations like the last rites, though precautionary in nature, indicate the pope is getting weaker as the days pass. 
The news reached students quickly Thursday as freshman Kathryn Balbierz received an e-mail from her mother informing her of the situation. 
"My mom emailed me and 
told me, and I 
just think it's 
studying abroad 
in Rome last semester and even then was struck by his poor health. 
"I went to mass in St. Peter's Basilica. When I saw him, he was in bad shape," De Angelo said. "He could hardly speak, and would leave out words because he didn't have the strength to say them. In the shape I saw him, I think he will pass away soon." 
But for non-Catholics on campus, the condition of the pope, though troubling, does not stir the same emotions. 
"Honestly, I'm not Catholic," sophomore Mary Boyer said. "I haven't been following the story and since I don't know much I don't have the same reaction as my friends. They're sad, because this is the only pope they've ever known." 
University President-elect Father John Jenkins, having heard the news of the last rites earlier in the day, reflected on the need for faith in times of uncertainty. 
"It's just a somber time," Jenkins said. "What can you do? You wait, and you hope. You commend it to God's will." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
• 
The Badin Art Show 
AprillS-17 

Call for entries!! 
Cash prizes awarded lst place: $75 2nd place:$50 3rd place: $25 
• 
Open to aU students 
• 
All media a£cepted 
Entries due April 13 
Show Opening at 7pm Friday, April 15 Prizes awarded at 7:30pm 

Interested? Contact <Kelly.A.Crecelius.l<'l~lnd.edu> 
• 
Watch for further information coming soon in the Dining Halls 
• 




Monk 
continued from page 1 

Lonnie Limon, accounting director at the Bravo Group and a '96 alum, shared how his cousin who lived in Sorin intro­duced him to Malloy during a pick-up basketball game. 
"For a Hispanic boy from Texas to meet Monk Malloy wearing shorts, goggles and a tank top," Limon said, "it showed me that he was a per­son you could touch, that was real." 
He thanked Malloy for an increase in faculty diversity, the instillation of the Latino Studies program and his freshman year advisor. 
"It was good to see a person of color in the-first year pro­gram that I could relate to," Limon said. "I think there's a long way to go, but I think you have made such great strides for us." 
In addition to his role as University president, Malloy also played the role of teacher in his popular freshmen semi­nars, Stone said. His classes became an example of how to teach and discuss diversity. 
Academic advisor in the First Year of Studies Celia Lucero discussed Malloy's impact on freshmen in his classes, which she said were designed to "enrich their humanity and empower their minds." 
Before presenting Malloy with a gift book, Lucero intro­duced two former students, Summer Shea and Marques Bolden, who shared their expe­riences from the spring 2003 seminar. 
Shea, who was adopted from South Korea at a young age and raised by an Irish family in a Caucasian community, said she struggled with her identity until taking Malloy's class. 
"The University of Notre Dame has provided me with a way to celebrate my Irish upbringing with my Korean ethnicity," she said. "Thank you, Father Malloy, for intro­ducing me to myself." 
Bolden said being introduced to people with experiences dif­fer:ent than his had a great impact on him. 
"Through our dialogue, we came to realize that our differ­ences were not hindrances, but advantages," he said. 
Chandra Johnson, Assistant Director of Cross-Cultural Ministry and Malloy's assistant for the past seven years, said, "It's been quite a ride." 
After praising Malloy's integrity and spirituality, Johnson told him, "You know that I love you." 
Malloy was also presented with two pieces of artwork. The first, a mirror created by dou­ble domer Lem Joyner, was presented by Gina Shropshire of the Black Alumni of Notre Dame. Senior Amy Peterson presented the second work, her painting of the Virgin Mary entitled "Notre Dame, our Universal Mother." 
Peterson said the painting depicts Mary outfitted in multi­cultural attire and gives her "indistinct yet identifiable skin tones," and even represents Malloy with the inclusion of dogwood flowers -a reference to the dogwood tree planted in his honor in front of the Main Building. 
After the speakers finished with their anecdotes and pre­sentations, Malloy took the podium and reflected on his childhood and career at Notre Dame. 
"One side of me, the Catholic side which prizes ritual espe­cially in times of transition, actually looks forward to these moments," Malloy said. "The other side of me hates these things, because my own per­sonal style has not been to seek personal attention." 
Malloy also referred to his athletic background during his speech. 
"The best functioning teams are when people with a variety of talents all pull in the same direction," he said. "That's real­ly what Notre Dame is to me." 
Malloy said his upbringing and early awareness of diversi­ty molded him and had a great effect on his future actions. 
I-iis father, a claims advisor in Washington D.C., would take Malloy with him in the city ­which at the time was predomi­nantly African-American -at night. 
"I would sit there in the car and try to take in the world around me," Malloy said. "I just remember how Intrigued I was by the worlds out there," he said. 
Malloy also cited his experi­ences traveling to places such as Mexico, Peru, Asia, Australia, New Zealand and Africa as eye-opening and said they expanded his horizons. 
"To bypass barriers, I know no better way than to immerse ourselves in culture, and to make friends," he said. 
Malloy offered advice that he said was inspired by John the Baptist. · 
"Prepare the way for the Lord. Try to do the best you can while you have time," Malloy said. "Be confident, under [University president elect] John Jenkins' leadership, that the momentum that's been established will be sustained." 
Malloy finished with a gym­nastics analogy to describe his futurE) after July 1, when Jenkins will assume the presi­dency. 
''I'm going from the parallel bars to the floor, because it's not as far of a distance to fall," he said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd,edu 
i 


• 
Walk to campus 

• 
Hook-up with friends, just blocks from your 



* Restrictions apply. Expires 4/15/05 

favorite night spots 
• 
Bronze yourself at our pool 

• 
Keep your car clean in our car ports 


• Check out our $1 ,000,000 BABY toll-free 1.866.395.4201 www.aimco.com 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN . 
# 1 PLACE TO BE AT ND 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 16 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Friday, April I, 2005 
Major League Baseball Spring Training 
Cactus League 

toam record p(WC. LA Angels 18·10 .643 San Francisco 17·11 .607 Colorado 11·12 .586 San Diego 16·13 .552 Arizona 15·14 .511 Chicago Cubs 14·15 .483 Oakland 14·16 .467 Kansas City 12·14 .462 Milwaukee 13·16 .448 Chicago White Sox 13·16 .448 Seattle 11-15 .423 Texas 10-18 .357 
Grapefruit League 

tnam rreot·d pore. Toronto 16-8 .667 New York Mets 15-9 .625 St. Louis 14-10 .583 Baltimore 13-10 .565 Minnesota 14-12 .538 Cleveland 14·13 .519 Cincinnati 15·14 .517 Houston 12·12 .500 LA Dodgers 12·12 .500 Tampa Bay 13·13 .500 New York Yankees 13·14 .481 Atlanta 12·13 .480 Boston 12·13 .480 Detroit 12·13 .480 Washington 11-13 .458 Pittsburgh 11·14 .440 Philadelphia 11-17 .393 Florida 9-19 .321 
ITA Tennis Rankings 
Men's Women's 
r.eum team 
NFL 


1 Baylor 
2 Illinois 
3 Virginia 
4 Mississippi 
5 Duke 
6 UCLA 
1 Pepperdine 
8 Georgia 
9 Florida 
10 Texas Tech 
11 Oklahoma State 
12 Southern California 
13 Washington 
14 Mississippi State 
15 TexasA&M 
16 Stanford 
17 Tennessee 
18 Kentucky 
19 Clemson 
20 TX A&M-Corpus Christi 
21 Tulane 
22 Louisiana Stale 
23 Harvard 
24 Louisville 25 Middle Tenn. State 
Stanford 1 Northwestern 2 Georgia 3 Southern California 4 Kentucky 5 Georgia Tech 6 Vanderbilt 1 Texas 8 Florida 9 Duke 10 Miami (Fl) 11 Baylor 12 UCLA 13 William and Mary 14 Clemson 15 North Carolina 16 California 17 Harvard 18 Washington 19 TCU 20 Tulane 21 Oregon 22 Mississippi State 23 South Carolina 24 Tennessee 25 



around the dial 
MLB 
Yankees at Tigers, 1 :05 p.m., ESPN 
PGA 

BeiiSouth Classic from TPC at Sugarloaf, 4 p.m., USA 
NBA 
Kings at Cavaliers, 8 p.m., ESPN Spurs at Nuggets, 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
Associated Press 
W/\SIIINGTON -The same Congressional com­mittee that conducted hearings into steroids in baseball has asked NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue for information about how football regu­lates the performance­enhancing substances. 
The Government Heform Committee also said Thursday it will ask for similar data from the NBA, NHL, NCAA, U.S. Track and Field and Major League Soccer. 
"As the committee has stated publicly numerous times, its focus on the per­formance-enhancing drug use in sports is not limited to professional baseball," the committee said in a let­ter signed by committee chairman Rep. Tom Davis and ranking Democrat Rep. Henry Waxman. 

"As part of this investiga­tion, we are requesting basic information on steroid policies from a number of sports leagues." 
Tagliabue responded in a letter that he has directed his stafT to be fully respon­sive to the committee's request. 
"New information has called into question the effectiveness of the NFL drug policy," Waxman said in a statement Thursday. ''I'm pleased that our com­mittee will closely look at that policy as part of our continuing investigation into steroid use in sports." 
The committee asked the NFL to provide details on the testing procedures and how they were negotiated between the league and the union. It also requtlst­cd summaries of all test results during the time the testing has taken place, although not the names of individual players. The committee set next Friday as the deadline for the league to provide it with the information. 
The letter to the NFL comes a day after CBS' "hO Minutes Wednesday" reported that Panthers punter Todd Sauerbrun and center .Jeff Mitchell and former offensive linn­man Todd Steussie filled testosterone cream pre­scriptions during the 2003 season, when the team went to the Supnr Bowl. 
In addition to the cream, whieh is banned by the NFL, Sauerbrun also reportedly obtai1wd syringes and the injeetable steroid Stanozolol, which is bannnd by tho leagun. 
The NFL has had ran· dom testing for steroids for the past 15 years. 1\ total of 44 players havn been suspendnd during that period for using thn per­formance-enhancing sub­stances. 
IN BRIEF 
Siberian screams into finals . KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -Maria Sharapova and Venus Williams reached a crescendo in the final game, swapping shrieks that accom­panied their shots in a series of furi­ous exchanges. 
Sharapova was a little louder and a bit better. 
I lolding her ground and her serve when Williams mounted a comeback, Sharapova erased six break points to close out a 6-4, 6-3 victory Thursday in the semifinals of the Nasdaq-1 00 Open. 
The second-seeded Sharapova advanced to her first Key Biscayne final. On Saturday, she'll meet the winner of the match Thursday night between unsoeded Kim Clijsters and No. 1 Amelio Mauresmo. 
Top-ranked Hoger Federer and six­time champion Andre 1\gassi advanend to a semifinal showdown Friday night. 
Fednrer, bidding for his first Key Biscayne title, beat No. 6 Tim llenman 6-4, 6-2. 1\gassi, seeded ninth, won the final eight games to defeat Taylor Dent 7-5, 6-0. 

Colts closer to stadium plan 
INDIANAPOLIS -Gov. Mitch Daniels said Thursday that he and legislative leaders have made progress on a plan that would help fund a new Indianapolis Colts stadium by imposing a one pereent restaurant tax on counties surrounding Indianapolis. 
Under the proposal, which would also pay for an expansion of the Indiana Convention Center, Marion County's food and beverage tax would rise to two pereent, from its eurrent one percent, he said. 
The governor said the tax in all eight counties would raise $21 million a year for the projects, with most of it eoming from Marion County. . 
Without imposing a one percent tax on restaurants in the seven counties around Indianapolis, Daniels said it would be impossible to raise the tax in Marion County because it would 
put those rnstaurants and bars in "an untenable, competitive disadvantage." Colorado rape suit dismissed 
DENVEH -1\ federal judge Thursday dismissed a lawsuit against the University of Colorado filed by two women whose allegations of sex­ual abuse sparked a seandal last year over its football tnam's recruit­ing praetiens. 
The plaintifl's say they wern raped by football playnrs or rncruits, but 
U.S. District .Judge Hobert Blackburn said the plaintifl's failed to mnet two key criteria in daiming tlw sehool violated fednral Title IX law by fos­tering an atmosphere that led to their alleged assaults. 
The judge said Lisa Simpson ­who has agreed to be identified in media repol'ts -and t.hn otlwr woman failed to pl'ove tho university had aetual knowledge of sexual harassment. 
lie also said they didn't show tlw school was deliberately indifl'ernnt to any known sexual harassment. 
Friday, April 1, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Keough Institute for Irish Studies, University of Notre Dame, Fall 2005. Next Semester, the Keough Institute is offering courses in Anthropology, Folklore, Irish-language, Literature [in English and Irish]. History and Politics. 
••ANTHROPOLOGY•• 
•Irish and American Dance, IRST 21601:01, MW 4:30-5:45, James This course will teach a range of fundamental steps in addition to at least two finished tap dance pieces set to CD music. Several hard show Irish tap dances will be taught and depending on the ability of the students, several other completed dances are possible. 
•Archaeology ofIreland, IRST 40503:01, MW 3:00-4:15, Meredith Chesson This course explores the culture and heritage of Ireland through the lens of the island's rich archaeological record. Combining lectures, student presentations, discussion exercises and panel projects, students in this class will learn about the social, political, and economic developments in Irish societies from the Neolithic to the Medieval periods. 
..FOLKLORE.. 
•Folklore in Irish Literature, ENGL 20528:01, TR 3:30-4:45, Julie Henigan This course will examine the traditional myths, tales, songs, customs, rituals, and beliefs that have long been used by Irish historical and creative writers as material for their literary works. 
..IRISH LANGUAGE•• 
•Beginning 
Irish I, IRST 10101:01, TR 9:30-10:45, Brian 6 Conchubhair An enjoyable introduction to Modern Irish. 

•Beginning 
Irish I, IRST 10101:02, MWF 10:40-11:30, Tara MacLeod An enjoyable introduction to Modern Irish. 

•Beginning 
Irish I, IRST 10101:03, MWF 1:55-2:45, Tara MacLeod An enjoyable introduction to Modern Irish. 

•Beginning 
Irish II, IRST 10102:01, TR 12:30-1:45, Brian 6 Conchubhair A continuation ofiRST 10101 and further develops the students' linguistic ability and knowledge of Irish 

•Beginningirishii, 
IRST 10102:02, MWF4:05-4:55, Tara MacLeod A continuation of IRST 10101 and further develops the students' linguistic ability­and knowledge of Irish. 

•Intermediate 
Irish, IRST 20103:01, TR 9:30-10:45, Sarah McKibben This class follows on IRLL 10101 and 10102, with particular attention to more advanced grammatical structures, speaking and reading. 

•Introduction 
to Old Irish, IRST 20105:01, TR 12:30-1:45, Peter McQuillan The aim of this course is to enable students with no previous knowledge of Irish, medieval or modern, to take the first steps towards acquiring a reading knowledge of Old Irish [the language of 7th-8th Century Ireland]. 


••HISTORY•• 
•Irish History I, IRST 30404:01, MWF 9:35-10:25, James Smyth This course explores the main themes in Irish history from Elizabethan Conquest (1603) to the Act of Union (1800). 
•The Fighting Irish Since 1534, IRST 30407:01, TR 3:30-4:45, Eamonn 6 Ciardha 
This course will focus on the cult of the 'Fighting Irish' [the Irish at war] in history, literature, art, iconography, film and media between the reformation [1534] and the Good Friday Agreement [ 1995]. 
..POLITICS.. 
•Conflict and Consensus in 20th Century Ireland, IRST 40540:01, TR 2:00-3: 15, William Kissane This course examines the government and politics of the Republic of Ireland and 
Northern Ireland through the lenses of democratization, state-development, nationalism and unionism. 
12. An Irish lord (MacSweeney) dines in the open air, ca. IS7.'i. Woodcut, probahly hy John rkke. John Derricke, The Image of lrel<!rtdf' ( 1.'581). 
..LITERATURE [IN ENGLISH AND IRISH]•• 
•20th Century Irish and Native American Literature, IRST 20229:01, TR 9:30-10:45, Jessica Dougherty-McMichael From the outset of colonization in both Ireland and North America's literature 
employed in similar fashion to romanticize, demonize and, more often than not, silence Irish and Native American cultures. Today, with the surge in 
post-colonial literatures, Irish and Native American literatures have found new that look to the past in order to explore the present. 
•Belfast, Dublin, London and Paris from Baudelaire to Bono, IRST 20230:01, TR 12:30-1:45, Joan Arbery 
one of the most dominant themes of modernity, the city figures as a poster child of trendsetters, go-getters, floozies and philanderers. This course focuses on four cities intimately connected through literature, art, music and film . 
•Anglo-Irish Literature: Cultured Misrule, Dissolute Lords and Rebel Countesses, IRST 20518:01, MWF 1:55-2:45, John Witek 
course will examine the role of the Anglo-Irish in the politics in the politics and literary life of Ireland from the Act of Union ( 1800) to the last decades of the 20th Century. 
•Culture and Politics in Northern Ireland, IRST 30222:01, TR 2:00-3:15, Mary Smyth 
course explores the politics of culture, and the cultures of politics, in the North of Ireland during the twentieth century. 
•The Hidden Ireland: Themes and Issues in Eighteenth-Century Irish Poetry, IRST 30107:01, TR 2:00-3:15, Breandan 6 Buachalla Daniel Corkery's study of the literature and society of Irish-speaking Munster in the eighteenth-century (The Hidden Ireland, first published in 1924) is an acknowledged classic of Irish literary history. This course will examine aspects of the corpus of eighteenth-century poetry in the Irish language in the light of 
Corkery's analysis and of subsequent reassessments of that analysis (Louis Cullen and Breandan 0 Buachalla, for example). Selections from the corpus of poetry will be taken from 0 Tuama and Kinsella An Duanaire: poems of the 
dispossessed ( 1981). 
•Poetry and Politics in Early Modem Ireland, IRST 40304:01, W 6:00­9:00, Breandan 6 Buachalla political poetry of the period 1541-1688 will be discussed and analyzed 
against the tumultuous political, military, socio-economic, and cultural trauma of 16th and 17th century Ireland. 
••GRADUATE COURSES•• 
•Theory and Theatre, IRST 90520:01, MW 3:00-4:15, Susan Harris 
· course investigates the history of Western theater and its relationship to the evolution of literary theory. Although the course will focus primarily on the evolution of the English-language theater, it will also locate that tradition in a European context, including figures like Artaud, Brecht, Grotowski and Pirandello, etc. 
•20th Century Irish Literature in Translation, IRLL 13186:01, TR 2:00­3:15, Sarah McKibben course examines Irish-language (Gaelic) literature from the Irish Revival at 
the turn of the twentieth-century to writing from the very end of the twentieth century and beyond. 
•Introduction to Early Irish Literature, IRLL 23101:01, TR 9:30-10:45, Peter McQuillan 
introduction for students to the richness and variety of literature produced in the Irish language during the medieval period (700 and 1200 A.D 
•Poetry and Politics in Early Modem Ireland, IRLL 60303:01, W 6:00­8:30, Breandan 6 Buachalla political poetry of the period 1541-1688 will be discussed and analyzed 
against the tumultuous political, military, socio-economic, and cultural trauma of 16th and 17th century Ireland. 
•Colonial Fictions, 1880-1930, ENGL 90525, TR 6:00-9:00, Meets from 8/23-10/14/2005, Seamus Deane Class participants will read several Irish and English novels of canonical stature 
this period in the light of the questions they raise about the nature and of colonialism and of its linkages to modernity. 
. 15. The English retum after retaliation on the Irish cattle raiders. Woodcut. probably by John rickc. ohn Derrickc, 1'he lrdande (1581). 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April I , 2005 
NBA 

Bulls overcome heroics from James, win in OT 
Pacers ride Jackson, Miller to overtime victory over Mianzi 
Assnciatcc.l Press 
I.PBron .lamps' ganw-tying :{­pointf'l' at tlw nnd or rngulation !'ould haVI' !'ruslwd tlw Chicago Bulls. 
lnsttHL<I. it rnadn thl'rn morn dntPrminPd t.o knPp tlwir winning stn•ak intal"l. 
"Going in tho huddln wo worn not dmnoraliznd. Wn wnro rnady to play morn. A'i a rnattnr of fad tlu~y wnm angry about it. Wn just c<unn right out and took control right away," Chicago mad1 Smtt Skill's said. 
That the Bulls did, opening ovnrtinw with an 11-0 run to dt~fPat .lames and the Cleveland Cavaliers 102-90 Thursday night for tlwir eighth straight victory. Tlw winning strnak is Chicago's longest of tlw season and oxtmul­Pd tlw Bulls' lnad ovnr Cleveland in tlw East to 2 1/2 gamns. 
"We am on a roll horn. We aro liJLJr games out of lirst. We want to continuo to movo up," Skiles said. 
Tyson Chandler scored live of his I !i point'> in overtimn and had 14 n~bounds. B1m Gordon scored 21 and had a earner-high. eight assists. while Antonio Davis added 17 poinl'>, four in ovnrtime. 
I>rnw Goodnn seornd 27 poinl'i and had 12 rebounds for the Cavaliers, and Jamns addnd 26 on I 0-of-28 shooting against the tough defnnsn of rookie Andres Nodoni. 
"It snemod they wantod it more as a homn game, and they outbat­tlnd us for loose balls and fmished tho plays down the stretch," Gooden said. 
.James missed all three of his shots in overtime when the Cavaliers were outscored 14-2 and didn't manage a lield goal. 
Chandler converted a three­point play with 2.8 seconds left in regulation aftnr a splnndid pass from Gordon to put the Bulls up RR-85 in rngulation. But after a timeout, James curled to get the inbounds pass, and when the Bulls didn't foul him, he took one dribble and let fly with his 3­pointm from the left side of the are. 
"I got a good screen from my big guys," Jamns said. "I knew I had 2.8 seconds to go, so I just took my time and let it ride." 
In ovnrtimn, Davis and Kirk llinrieh hit jumpnrs, Chandler eonvnrtnd anollwr throo-point play, I>avis hit two morn from tho lirw and Nodoni sank a jurnpnr to cap tho 11-0 spurt. 
"LnBron hits that big shot and wn mspond," Davis said. "You got young guys on tho floor and you soe them put thoir head down. But !hoy put it down fill· a seeond and piek(~d it right back up and a light goes oil'. That was sonwthing all last year wo couldn't do." 
Iiddy Curry, the tnam's leading seorm·, remained in CharlottP for troatnwnt of an irwgular heart­beat that prevented him from playing Wndnnsday night as well. But Chandler and Davis, who played 4R minutes at ago 36, took up tho slaek. 
"I think he will be line and we miss him," Davis said. "We were going in saying, 'We don't have Eddy, we havn to make up for all he brings to this team."' 
Davis took an inbounds pass and hit a turnaround jumper just beli1ro the third quarter buzzer go put the Bulls ahead 6 7-61. The Bull in~reased the lead to eight early in the fourth when Davis made three frne throws and a basket on tlw broak. 
Gooden hit his first six shots and seored 15 of Cleveland's first 21 poinl'> 
James strugglnd with his shoot­ing in the lirst hall', missing six of 10 field goal attempts and three of live from the line, but his slash­ing drive on a break put the Cavs up 4R-46 at the half. 
Indiana ll4, Mlaml108 OT 
Stephen Jackson was having an awful night, missing 10 con­secutive shots at one point, before everything took ·a sharp turn for the better. 
Jackson forced overtime by making a 3-pointer with 0.2 sec­onds left, then put the Pacers ahead for good on another 3 with 
1:54 remaining to lead Indiana to a victory over the Miami Heat on Thursday night. 
"I get down on myself a lot, but my team constantly tells me, 'You have one more big one in you?" Jackson said. 
It was the third straight over­time game between the teams, and Indiana extended its winning streak over the Heat to 12 in a row. 
Jackson finished with 29 points, while Heggie Miller had 31. 
Miller shot 11-for-18 from the_ field and made all eight of his free throws for Indiana. which defeat­ed the Heat 106-100 in Miami on Jan. 21 and 93-91 at home Feb. 23. 
For Miami, Dwyane Wade scored 37 points, Damon Jones had 27 and Shaquille O'Neal 24. O'Neal, who grabbed 13 rebounds, did not score in over­time after tallyfug 10 points in the fourth quarter. 
Indiana trailed 92-86 with 1:43 remaining, but Anthony Johnson hit a jumper from the free-throw line and a 3-pointt:ir to cut the lead to 92-91 with 29 seconds left. 
Wade, who scored the lleat's last six points of regulation, made a shot to give Miami a 94-91 lead with 10.1 seconds remaining. 
After a timeout, Jackson missed a 3, Dale Davis grabbed an offen­sive rebound and Austin Croshere passed to Jackson just to the right of the top of the key. His 3-pointer tied it, and Wade missed an alley­oop attempt off an inbounds pass on the final play of regulation. 


"We had got a drive, and they had to help, and they had to scramble out," Jackson said. "Me and Croshere were open on the weak side, and they threw it to Croshere. He had a wide-open shot, but the guy closed on him well, and he got a late pa.c;s to me, and I had a good look from the top." 
Shaquille O'Neal said the I I eat needed one mon~ rebound, but Davis grabbed it. 
"I went to the corner to help against Reggie," he said. "It was a medium rebound, and it came to him (Davis). We had the game won, and we let it get away. They just wanted it more than We did." 
Jackson's 3-pointer with 1:54 left in overtime gave Indiana a 104-102 lead, and Knyon Dooling missed a 6-footer for Miami. Davis made two foul sholc; after grabbing an offensive rebound, making it 106-102. After Wadn missed a jumper, Miller knocked down a 1 !i-footer for a six-point lead.Davis had 13 points and 11 rebounds and­Anthony .Johnson had 16 points. 
The Observer accepts classifiec.ls every business c.lay from 8 a.m. to 3 !'.111. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifiec.ls is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must he prepaic.l. The charge is 5 cents per character per c.lay, incluc.ling all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit 
all classifiec.ls for coment without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 Clean homes close to ND. 2·8 6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. Two story house completely remod­rm,2bath. For details bdrms. High·end and furnished. Ask 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 eled 2003. Ready for 2005-06 
WANTED 
fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. about FREE student renl program. PER MONTH + DEP. _ school year. Off streel parking PERSONAL Blue & Gold Homes STAFF AND FACULTY ONLY. CALL includes motion sensor light for (574)250-7653. BRUCE 876-3537. security. Four individually locked Liltering and ... liltering and ... liltering 
bedrooms, six blocks from Notre and...smoking the reefer!
FoR RENT

Childcare for 1 0 and 13 year old 2,4 & 5 B·Rooms, 4 Rooms,Graduation, Dame, bus stop in fronl of house. 
after school (3-6) and summer (10-close to campus, 3 miles ND. surrounded by other student hous-I love you. Alison 6). Nonsmoker. Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 call 234-9923, ask for Rod. Best location. ing, Laundromat next door references and reliable car essen-bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask 287-4545 (drycleaning also),basement avail-It's your faull we have so much llal. Call or email Viole! about FREE student rent program. Room for rent. able for storage of bicycles. lug-crime in this country, and it's your 
at 243-3466 or vbloom@nd.edu Blue & Gold Homes Very nice apt.complex 10 min. from NEED HOUSING FOR 2005-06? gage, trunks, etc., new furnace and fault we have so much violence (574)250-7653. campus.$350/mo. Nice Rental Home avail. for 2 stu-central air, new kitchen including (517)974-6225. dents. new stove and refrigerator, large liv-Never have I ever rhymed anylhing Greal6-7 bdrm home available 9/12mo. lease avail. ing room for TV or entertaining, free with swordsFoR SALE 611/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail-2-6 BEDROOM HOMES Fully furnished. All.appliances,utili· trash removal. Call 289-4071. 
able NOW. Both Close lo WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAM-ties, cable TV & high speed internet 3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417 Bloominglon, here we come I ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND PUS. included. Off street parking. 3.5 Napoleon (off ND Ave.)2 min. from 
2000 Tracker. Internet Canopy access. Call Joe 708 S,B. AVE -605 ST. PETER miles from ND in nice area. ND. $1100/mo. 2 roommates/1 lam-My hands aren't cold yet. 
26.000 miles. $5200. Crimmins CALL 532-1408 $465/mo/student. ily. Call 299·9428. 634-4422. 574-229-3659 MMMRENTALS.COM 574-656-8695. www.andersonNDrentals.com Neither are Ken's 

Page 13 




PSP game reviews from Mark and Trevor 
Dynasty Warriors 

"Dynasty Warriors" is one of the Playstation 2's most prof­itable franchises. Having already been seven titles on the PS2, it would seem a logical choice for a PSP launch title. However, of all the available launch titles, it may not be the best choice. 
The game plays like a weak role-playing game. The player can choose from a huge selection of historical Japanese fight­ers and then proceed to slaughter thousands of ancient Japanese soldiers. The characters level up as experience is gained. Compared to its predecessors, the gameplay has changed slightly. The huge maps have been eliminated ~nd have been replaced by a playing board. When the player moves his general onto an occupied space, the game reverts to the traditional "Dynasty Warriors" style of play. 
Graphically, the game is decent. It deserves some credit for displaying a lot of enemy soldiers at one time, but at the expense of some graphical slowdown. While the game is fun. a lack of depth and Wi-Fi playability keeps it from being one of the more essential titles. 
Overall rating: B 
Wipeout Pure 

"Wipeout Pure" is deflnitely one of the more visually stun­ning titles for the PSP. The vehicles all look terrific, especially considering the fact that it's on a portable system. The game­play matches the splendor of the visual style. 
The player gets to choose from a variety of anti-gravity rac­ing vehicles, all of which are rendered well. The tracks range from the simple to the insanely complex, giving the game lasting appeal. Additional tracks and vehicles can also be unlocked as the player progresses through the game. 
The game also supports Wi-Fi, allowing up to eight players to play together. The game doesn't lag when played over the internet -a positive point as lag could kill any racing game. Savvy garners can also find a way to browse the internet using "Wipeout Pure." Overall, this is one of the must-buys for the system. 
Qverall rating: A+ 
Twisted Metal: Head-On 

The classic vehicular combat game has finally become portable. 'Twisted Metal" has already made a splash on the original PlayStation, as well as the PS2. With all the hype sur­rounding the game, the biggest question is whether it lives up to the hype. The answer is an emphatic yes. 
The premise of "Twisted Metal" is simple -get into a car and blow everything up. And in this case, I literally mean everything. Anything from pillars to the Eiffel Tower can be destroyed, creating some of the most interactive environ­ments found on a handheld console. The selection of cars is also nice, including fifteen vehicles ranging from motorcycles to construction vehicles. 
The Wi-Fi up to six players, which can also be played over the internet. The game suffers from minor lag, but it hardly detracts from the gameplay. There arc some minor changes when played online, but they aren't obvious and are neces­sary for a smooth gameplay. Overall, a ton of unlockables and solid gameplay push this title to the top. 
Overall rating: A+ 


Photo courtesy of www.us.playstation.com 
THE ABSURDER 



PORTS
hiday, April I, 2005 
page 8 
Irish almost improve to 6-5 
Sources say BC loss left off initial two­month old review 
By ARCOT RAMATHHORN 
AND RODNEY FARVA 

·learn Ramrod 
Sources inside the South Dining I I all basement have reported that Notre Dame's loss to Boston College this season Oet. 23 nearly was erased from the history books, thanks to the green-shirt wearing, rah-rah cheering Seholastie sporLo:; department. 
Notre Dame's student maga­zine, whieh eomes out every full moon, had no Boston College game reeap initially in its annual February football season review issue, sports department spokesman lrna Homer eon­firmed. 
"We felt that losing to Boston Collegn again just wasn't the kind of thing we wanted," llorner said. "So, we just prettmded it didn't happen." 
However, some outside the Sehola<;tie stall' believe the sporL<; department simply forgot to put the reeap in the February issue. 
"I mean, it's not all their fault," junior Dan Fogelberg said. "They only had sinee Oetober to fi!-,1Urn out Notre Dame did play Boston College in football this season. That's only like four months or so. Give them a break. Plus, it's probably easy to forget a game when you have so many -like 12." 
But llorner did not baek down when asked if he and the sports staiT made an innoeent mistake. 
"Liston hero," an angry llomer said. "Me and my staff wear green shirts in the press box. We do pushups in the press box when Notre Dame scores and we never, and I mean never ever ever ever, pick against the Irish in any team sport, no matter what. We are the biggest Notre Dame fans at this school and we would never criticize any Irish team. We simply wanted people to forget the Boston College loss .. If we don't put it in our February issue, maybe no one notices, and the Irish don't get the loss." 
The Absurder has learned an Scholastic staffer realized there were only 11 games in the review issue. She thought Notre Dame had played 12. After bringing up the disagreeing numbers to the editors, Scholastic's staff put their colleetive heads together and finally remembered that Boston College was, in fact, on the Notre Dame schedule this year. 
Once the mistake was caught, the sports department continued to whine and moan in opposition of the game being reviewed. 
'Our excessive cheering and grocn shirt wearing didn't help the team win against Boston College," Horner said. "We at least had to try and remove the game from everyone's memory." 
Contact Farva at literofcola@idontwantalarge.com 

Saint Mary's captures national chatnpionship 
By ANITA VOLUNTEER 

SMC Sporrs writer 
The Saint Mary's athletic department announced the for­mation of its lirst fencing team Wednesday. Thursday, the Bolles won the Division III NCM Championship. 
''I'm very proud of our girls," Bellns coach Grizzelda Williams-Williams said, "Even though thoro were no other tnarns in competition at the championship." 
The Belles swept all three events at the Championships, whieh were held in Olivet, Mich. Senior Matilda Turgsadkjladfxv took lirst place in epee, sabre and foil. Turgsadkjladfxv, who is from Hornania, was also the only mornbnr of the Belles who had ever fenced before. 
Turgsadkjladf'xv went a per­fect 15-0 at the championships, defeating the other five mem­bers of the Belles in all three events. In fact, only one other member of the Belles even scored a point against Turgsadkjladfxv. 
Williams-Williams, who is also the Belles' basketball coach and the college vice pres­ident, said the Belles overcame a lot of adversity on their way to the ehampionship. 
Turgsadkjladfxv was especial­ly impressed with her perform­ance at the championships. 
"Ja, I v·as a very good venzer," Turgsadkjladfxv said. "Ze oddah girls vere zhust awful, though. I could have von ze meet vith von arm behind my back. 
"I remember zis von match vcre I von in 12 zeconds. My dead grandvader could venze better zan dat." 
Contact Anita Volunteer at clayaikenfan@goldsgym.com 


The fourth loss to the backup college In four years was almost erased from the record books thanks to Scholastic. 
Hoops teammates long lost twins 
ByENAI TEE Sports Writer 

Men's basketball players Hod Furz and Corbin Fallsinator were shocked Thursday when DNA results proved they are twins and were apparently separated at birth. 
"Whenever 
··,~ 

I looked at him, it freaked me Fallslnator () u t ' .. Fallsinator said. "It was like looking into a mirror. And that's not a pretty sight." 

"It's pretty sweet, he's like my very own Mini-Me," the fresh­man Furz said. At first glance many fans believed there might be some relation between the two since theylooked very sim­ilar. Even head coach Pike Trey says he saw a connection between the two since the first practice of the season. "They 
Keenan stripped of title 
By ROID RAGE Sports Writer 
The season-long rumors arc true. 
Validating suspicions held by many interhall football fans, it was confirmed Thursday night the 2004 Keenan Knights would lose their title because of ram­pant steroid use. 
"It's a sad day for interhall athletics at Notre Dame," HecSports director Mitch ()'Peary said. 

In hearings held because of HesLife-issued subpoenas. the KnighL<; went before mHmbers of various departments at the University and were interrogat­ed furiously about such things as their inernasing helmet sizes. 
"I wanted to give my tnam a competitive edge. I never thought it would come to this," Keenan quarterback Ihave tiny­balls said. 
Knott instantly claimed the championship after losing the game because of a missed extra point. 
Knott's kicker finally exited his room al'tHr locking himself inside since missing the crudal kick. 
Contact Roid Rage at shootmeup@needles.com 
were so alike," Trey said. "But whose name has not been they were both so ugly I was released, was reported to have afraid to say anything to them contacted both Furz and about how they looked." Fallsinator and daim she was 
Suspicions increased even their birthmothcr. Several stu­more when Furz hit a 3-pointer dents also said they saw her in the last game of the season. walking around LaFortune last 
Teammate • week. 

Wrist Flynn "When she walked in I saw an couldn't tell if that was her e c r i e head or an ass sticking out of r e s e m -the top of her shirt," explained blanco. Zahm sophomore lma Loser. ,,............. 
" M a n , "Mean," rnplied Farley fresh­
......... 

when he hit man Fern Anazi. that shot, I So what's next for Furz and co u I d n 't Fallsinator now that they've 
Furz help but think received the news? · that they were "Well, we've just signed a the same person," Flynn said. deal with Doublemint Gum to 
It was after that game Flynn shoot a couple commercials suggested to Furz and during the off-season," Fallsinator they have a DNA Fallsinator said. "It's going to test done to lind out the truth. be even better than the old At first they refused. Jordan and Bird commercials· 
"I told Flynn he was crazy," McDonald's used to do since I Furz said. "I mean, just look at don't need special effects to him, he looks like an alien." make ridiculous shots." 
Their minds may have changed, however, when they were allegedly met with an Contact Enai Tee at unexpected visitor. A woman, notthencaa@badbasketball.com 
HOCKEY
PARIETALS 
HALO 2
JUMBLE 

DRINKING RANKINGS
WHAT PAGE?

en ..... 
Keenan vs. 
Keough 3,

Poorman returns
Alumni 12,
John 43 seconds
u Page 20, 24 or 

to No.1. 
Stanford 
Notre Dame 0 
Dillon 11
Bob 4 7 seconds 
z who knows 

Tonight, 9 p.m.

li: s 
The ResLife leader 
Mired in a 19-game
The Dawgs win last
John wins in first-
Where is that Notre 
winless streak, the Irish

reclaims his top spot on 
These North Quad
weekend's competition
round action of the 
= c:r: Dame football story 
can't even beat the

the administration's 
rivals alienate girls on a
for parietals violations, 
interhall jumble tourna­
jumping to today? 

= 
Friday night. 
interhall champions. 

drinking rankings. 
ment.

a.. ~ Nope, not that page! 
page 20
page 2 a.m 
page 40 

page XBox
page??? 
page 73473

en 
THE ABSlJRDER 
OINTLESS
Friday, April I, 2005 
page 7 
Turn off your cell phones 
It's bad enough cell phones have taken over the cam­your Tuesday afternoon lecture. It's amazing professors pus during the past four years. don't throw students out of class for just being courte-
It wasn't that long ago when people would actually ous. talk to the person standing next to them while walking Again, what a novel concept. between classes instead of that person on another quad. Then, when you're at Rolfs or the Rock, the point of 
What a novel concept. being there isn't to setup what South But that's not our problem. It goes Bend bar you're going to attend on 
A 
The

much further than that. Friday night, but to actually work out!
bsurder 

The problem stems from people leav­EditorialOnce again, your life isn't that important 
ing those phonef! on in class, and some­where you can't just get away for 45 times even answering them. minutes. The problem stems from people Maybe this has to deal with another 
answering their calls in computer clus­ters while other users give them dirty looks. 
The problem stems from people riding bikes at Rolfs and holding conversations. Okay, you might think your life is all that important. But there's a simple answer to that question. 
No. 

Do people even consider what their professors must think when that awkward cell phone ring interrupts 
problem plaguing the Notre Dame stu­dent body-the disease of incompe­tence. LiJ<:e does it not dawn on people they might be rude or inconsiderate to hold a conversation in DeBartolo 141 at 
12:59 p.m. Notre Dame campus, especially you freshmen, do us 
all a favor. Turn off your damn cell phones. It's not a novel concept. 
Stop stalking me 
This is a last request from Skerd Freshman to whoever has been stalking me through Instant Messenger. 

Stop IMing me. I don't care about your problems with your mother, I don't care if you think the government is coming after you and I don't care about how much you miss your pet goat. 
Also, I am really disturbed by your habit of sending me 82 winky faces in a row followed by a kissy face. This is not attractive. If using those stupid little faces worked I would send you 100 angry faces and you would NEVER BOTHER ME AGAIN. 
In the past week I have blocked StalkRBoi, Stilwat­CHing and DuUH8me from my buddy· list. I KNOW ALL THESE PEOPLE ARE YOU. You can't fool me by talking all in caps. You can't fool me by spelling out words instead of using stupid abbreviations like r u alone. And it does NOT make any­thing you say less creepy when you say "hehehe" after it. 
No matter how many times you try to send me mp3s of "Every Breath You Take," I WILL NOT accept the file. 
Also, stop using fake facebook names to stalk me. I know this is you -there is no one in this world named Seymour Butts or Harry Bottoms. I WILL NOT BE YOUR FACEBOOK 

FRIEND. I AM TIRED OF RECEMNG EMAILS THAT YOU HAVE LISTED ME AS YOUR FACEBOOK FRIEND. JUST STOP. Also, if you are the person who calls my cell phone four 
times a day and asks if Irma is there, I just want you to 
know that you have wasted all my plan minutes 
and I can't answer my phone until the end 
of the month without paying 40 cents a 
i·~ minute. I HOPE YOU'RE HAPPY. 
/..;; j@  ·  . 1  I'm going to give you some advice for you~ fut?re love ,life. ~rom  
(b! [:  ~· \ !:,: 1 <..··.1 ··jJ . l) ···  everythmg I ve seen_ I m gomg to guess you're the kmd of blood­less, computer-caressing troll who spends his life huddled under his lofted furniture because he can't speak to peo­ 
ple without cringing. So my  
suggestion is, .move to another  
country where they don't speak  
English and can't tell you're an  
idiot.  Or another planet where  

they CAN'T TELL YOU'RE A CREEPY 
STALKER. I hope my advice helps. me. Really. 
But don't thank 
Converted Nun McGlinn Hall freshman March 31 

No pride for the T-shirt (boo hoo) 
I am writing to you on behalf of all the women at Saint Mary's who are really upset about the Pride Week T­shirt coverage. You see, while it stayed a current topic for a long time, I feel as though it is not getting as much attention as it should be now. 
Yes, the Student Activities Board apologized many times. And yes, they even held meetings so people could talk about the identity of a Saint Mary's woman, but I still feel like it's a really big issue that should not be dropped at Saint Mary's. 
I'm asking all Saint Mary's stu­dents to take this as a call to action. What we should do is destroy the shirts, and, in fact, make sure there are no longer any sort of Saint Mary's images put out anywhere. We should remove all campus merchan­dise. We should not make any draw­ings of students -whether they are real or imagined. And we should definitely remove the logo embla­zoned soap dispensers in the bath­room, because I do not feel they rep­resent me, as a Saint Mary's woman. 
I propose instead of focusing on new ways to improve the campus such as reveling in our new student center or seeing all the beautiful sights on campus with spring on the way, we should instead continue to focus on this atrocity that was the Pride Week Shirt for as long as the College is in existence. That is. the only way to ensure no one 

Will Ushutupplease senior offcampus March 31 
The Observer 
• 
IS 
•

oppressing me 
The student government report to the Board of Trustees didn't go far enough in describing the dire consequences of a lack of an affirmative action policy at The Observer. It was right to castigate The · Observer's gender imbalance, but it got the situation wrong when saying the problem was that that women weren't moving up in the ranks. It didn't take into account the real problem, which is the plight of the Catholic, white, upper-class male workers like myself who are in the minority on this staff. 
We're the ones affected. 
I mean really, besides some other dudes in the sports department and scattered in pho­tography and whatever other sections there are, I'm like surrounded by women. Student government has a problem with too many male editors? Have you seen this year's top staff? There's a girl, a guy, a girl, a girl and another girl. Overall there's about two to three girls for every guy. Don't get me wrong, I love the ladies. I mean, they rev my engines, but they don't belong in the newsroom! 
Very few people realize the hardships I face because The Observer refuses to adopt any sort of affirmative action policy that would actively recruit people like me and cater to their interests once hired. The new female Editor-in-Chief has actually issued a statement that says something about not discriminating at all and encouraging all people to get involved with the paper, ren­dering an affirmative action policy unneces­sary. Are you as outraged as I am? It's clear that she is purposely overlooking my demographic and trying to keep male num­bers down. 
Okay, maybe we need more Asians, blacks, Jews, transgendered South African Buddhists, what have you, to make this staff more diverse. All I'm saying is that the most pressing problem is the fact white Catholic men like myself need someone to speak for them, to represent them in media. Who at Notre Dame will work for our needs? I'm not even talking about how biased the news will be without adequate representation behind the scenes. Really I'm just worried because it makes an uncomfortable working environment since as a Notre Dame guy I don't know how to communicate with girls. 
As a disgruntled employee, I support stu­dent government's attempt to highlight this problem in their BOT report, but they're going about it the wrong way. Clearly, the problem is The Observer's refusal to allow a minority like myself to have a workplace where I can feel accepted and welcome. Until drastic changes are made and affirma­tive action geared toward white males is instituted, I'm afraid that The Observer will continue to propagate biased, unfair jour­nalism. 
Jon Burgundy Zahm Hall sophomore March 31 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Bernie Blozar Monkey Hoe B.J. Richard Phatty P Corby's BMOBeer Mary Kay "Cradle Robber" Latourneau 
Kemrlt 
Velociraptor 
Haire Smelley 
ABSURDER POLL 

What color should the Dome be? gold, black, translucent 
Vote at www.ndsmcabsurder.com by 5 p.m. today. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
':4re you serious, Clark?" 
Fat Hoser journalist 
page 6 The Absurder+ NEWS Friday, April 1, 2005 
SMC students experience sy111pto111s of tunnel vvithdravval 
By FRENCHY CROSS 
News Wrirer 
While the weather in South Bend is improving, many stu­dents at Saint Mary's are still experiencing a disease. whieh has lwen passed around since last semester -tunnel with­drawal. 
Last Deemnber, Saint Mary's made the decision to dose the underground tunnels that many students had used to travel around campus due to exposed water and electrieal pipes. This loft many students literally out in the cold during the cold and snowy wintPr months, when the tunnels were most frequently usml. 
0 n e n u r s e i n II1Htl t h a n d Wellrwss said she knows tunnel withdrawal to have taknn its toll on a numlwr of students this snnwstnr. 
"Wn'w had rwarly half the on r.arnpus students into tlw ol'lk1~ trying to diagnose tlwir unex­plairwd symptoms: fnnling eold, frozen tons dun to wearing llip flops in tlw wintl'r and a gnrwr­al sPntinu•nt of fnnling glum." shn said. "Tiw tunnels may havP IH•nn srary to some stu­dPnts, hut tunnl'l withdrawal has IH'Pil tWPII searil'r." 
Orw junior who wants to bn known only by the name Tina hPiinvPs slw was a victim of' tunnel withdrawal. 
"There were times I didn't even want to leave the resi­dence hall because I knew I would have to go outside," she said glumly. "I would just walk up and down the stairs for exorcise, hoping the snow would go away or by some mir­ade, the tunnels would reopen so I could go to the library." 
Other students believe they have had absolutely no symp­toms of tunnel withdrawal. 
One sophomore said she once had a seary experience while traveling through the tunnels to Trumper Computer Center and does not miss them at all. 
"I had to print a midterm last semester and was walking through the tunnels when my cell phone rang," she exelaimed. "I freaked out because I knew my cell phone got zero reception down there. Out of the corner of my oyo, I swore I saw a man and he whispered, 'Can you hoar me now? Good.' I'm glad they're closed -That guy freaks mo out!" 
Sinee tho dosing of the tun­nels, many students have boon forcod to reroute their usual ways around campus. Instead of walking under LeMans llall through the tunnels to get to the science hall. students must now walk through tho building, or oven around the building, to 
Two Colleges make friendly transaction 
Arts and Lottnrs, but we haven't
Statue of man with 
snon nothing come out of it," Kash said. "I am grateful and
camel and needle 
amazing at the initiative theyoffto Mendoza have shown in producing some­thing." Notre Dame graduate Willow,
By FAKEY McFAKER 
a former art major who current­
News Writer 
ly works in a bagel shop, created tho statue out of pure stainless 
The Collngn of Arts and Letters steel. and thn Mendoza Colloge of "It was difficult to work with Business will draw one step such a hard, unyielding materi­closer togetlwr with thn unveil­al," Willow said. "But I wanted irig of a statue Saturday morn­something that would, so to ing. speak, get to the heart of the 
Tim 16 foot and 6.6 inch high matter." statue. which Faculties of both depicts a busi­colleges have been
"We believe in 
rwssman hold­enthusiastic about ing the reins of unity even between the reaction to the a camel in one gift.
developed and 
hand and a "I wasn't sure if the
undeveloped
noedle in the professors in busi­other. was <~om­souls." ness would be missioned as a offended by our gift from the metaphor," theology
Ronald P. Snodgrass
College of Arts professor Holly
Dean
and Lntters to the College of Busirwss. The two have sometimes been vinwnd as rivals, a conception both colleges hop11 can be dis­JWiled. 
Tlw statue is entitled "The Spirit of Capitalism." Other names considered include "The .ludgnwnt of Our Lord" and "Crossing the Barron Desert of Commercn." 
"Many people are under the impression that there is some kind or animosity between the collnges," said Doan of Arts and Letters Honald P. Snodgrass. "I hope this gift will show that here in Arts and Letters, we bnlieve in unity even between developed and undeveloped souls." 
Seymour Kash, Dean of the Collogn of Business, expressed appreciation l'or the generosity and oll'ort that went into the gift. 
"In the past we've heard a lot of talk from the l'aeulty over in 
Erthenthou said. 
"But evnryone has 
been very receptive. I guess they do have a capacity for self-rellection over there." 
"I've found this piece a little hard to interpret," marketing professor Ty Kuhn said. "But then I realized the eamel repre­sents the need to expand American markets in the Middle East. I think it's great the people in arts and letters find that so important." 
The statue will be unveiled at 10 a.m. Saturday morning at the Mendoza College of Business, followed by a reception. Entertainment will be provided by whichever members of the Glee Club make it out of bed. 
All students are invited to attend, provided they are willing to make a $200 donation. 
Contact Fakey McFaker at convicted@honorcode.com 

visit the other end of campus. 
Luekily, students now have a tunnel option from LeMans Hall to the new student center. The tunnel, while short, is reported to be much less creepy than the other tunnels were and is said to alleviate some of the symp­toms of tunnel withdrawal. 
"We believe the .new tunnel will satisfy all those in tunnel withdrawal but are much less frightening for any students who were fearful of the other tunnels," the spokesperson said. "It's all the fun of the tun­nels without students having to get the willies." 
Snnior Nosmo King said she is thrilled with the new tunnel. 
"Sometimes I just walk baek and forth in the tunnel because it makes mo feel so much bet­ter," King said. "I use the tun­nel everyday because that is what truly is making my last semester at Saint Mary's even better." 
The llealth and Wollness nurse said she believes this tunnel will make all the differ­once to those in tunnel with­drawal. 
".lust wait until the next big snow storm or rain shower, throw on a pair of rtip flops, and go for a walk in the tun­nel," she said. "You'll be over 
Contact Frenchy Cross at wealwaysbackdown@wusses.com 

Saint Mary's students are experiencing withdrawal symptoms from their tunnels and pipes closed In December. 
SUPPORT THE FENCING TEAM 
WHEN: APRIL 1 WHERE: THE RocK TIME: You WON'T HAVE TIME NOR WANT TO WATCH THEM 
NATIONAL CHAM PIONS!. .. AND NO ONE CARES 
.
'. 

Friday, April 1, 2005 
The Absurder+ NEWS page 5 
Tau Beta Pi busted for hazing 

Engineering honor society members Tasered at initiation 
By TAZERD NERD 
News Writer 
South Bend police broke up an initiation ceremony last weekend for potential new members of Tau Beta P~ the academic fraternity for engi­neering students, who were inducted into the honor socie­ty with aggressive acts of haz­ing. 
Unruly Dean's List engineers had to be sedated by police with the controversial stun guns Tasers, as a party held at their frat house on St. Pete Street spun out of control. Underclassmen eligible for honor society admission had beer poured on them by upperclassmen who were already members, taunting them with vicious threats such as having to recite elements from the Periodic Table. 
"I had to stop at Ununnilium · because I forgot the chemical symbol," said sophomore Poindexter Curie, who with a 
3.93 grade point average decided to participate in the Notre Dame version of most colleges' Rush Weeks. ''I'm so stupid! I knew it but they kept pouring beer on me and I got it mixed up with Ununoctium, which isn't even close." 
His eyes filled with tears as he described how his older brother had been in Tau Beta Pi when he was at Notre Dame. 
"He was always telling me stories abouthow his brothers in engineering made Greek still think it's total crap that life guys at other schools look [pre-med honor society] Alpha like pansies," Curie said Epsilon Delta is still on proba­despondently. "Once, a bunch tion for that dissected cat inci­of them stayed up all night dent last May," he said. "I drinking Mountain Dew and mean, some of the initiations typing messages to girls on get wild, but this latest bust their graphing calculators. with Tau Beta Pi is just anoth­Now I let him down because er attempt to exert control our frat is on probation again . over studious kids having before I got a chance to join." fun." 
Officers  dis- He declined  
patched  to  the  to  comment  
scene of the hazing  "Hazing among  further  
said they were shocked at the severity of the  academic fraternities is  because was late lab.  he for  
harassment among  reaching new  Among  the  
honors students. "Hazing among  levels."  fraternities, none has been  
academic fraterni­ hit  harder  
ties is reaching new  Taser Crazy  than  math  
levels,"  Captain  Captain  club Mu Alpha  

Taser-Crazy said. "I haven't seen the likes of this kind of hazing since that bust at the Pi Sigma Alpha frat house last January." 
He referred to the rampant hazing within the political sci­ence honor society, where potential members have been known to be blindfolded and sprayed with hoses in the snow until they name every Congressman from their own state. Hazing first came to the attention of ResLife when a Pi Sigma Alpha hopeful from California contracted frostbite after two days of forgetting Congressman Devin Nunes of the 21st Congressional District. 
A Tau Beta Pi member who spoke on condition of anonymity said the recent regulations on honor societies were another attempt by administration to stifle tradi­tion. 
"I know there's rivalry between the fraternities, but I 
Theta, which 
is no longer permitted to hold its annual "Algorithms 'n Alcohol" party. With ResLife and Student Affairs keeping a close watch, the honor society has been relegated to organizing lec­tures about math. Other fra­ternities fear this will become of all of them. 
"What if all Pi Sigma Alpha can do is e-mail members twice a year about officer elections?" asked president Corr Upted. "That's what the university seems to want from us, all academics and no haz­ing, no initiations, no throw­ing kids into St. Joe's lake for not knowing which president signed the Presidential Succession Act." 
A look of fear came over his face. 
''I'm afraid that in a few years, honor societies just won't be cool anymore." 
Contact Tazerd Nerd at firstdegreebums@pleasestop.com 

Bribe 
continued from page 1 
she picked up the box. 
A note attached to the box said, "Something for all the late nights ahead." 
"Fifteen measly pieces of inferior chocolate to buy my love, affection and journalistic ethics?" the disgruntled editor cried. 
She concluded this implied she was cheap and actually became offended. However she did add that had the intruder left two pounds of Godiva truf­fles, or perhaps the ears off some chocolate bunnies, her sentiments towards the hope­less lothario might have been more favorable. 
In response to the pitifully absurd pick-up line, the editor said she would have been inter­ested back in the day had he joined her during her "sailing" phase. She then questioned why he didn't just deliver a bottle of chocolate sauce if he really wanted some late night fun, adding that the boy scout's advances might then have been morn titillating. 
However, the editor admitted that La Baron might very possi­bly have been trying to sweeten her up in hopes of more favor­able student government cover­age next year. 
"Well it can't get much worse than last year, though there are holdovers from last year -so you never know," the editor said. It was unclear whether she was talking about her staff or his. 
The note ended with: "Congrats again and good luck next year." 
The editor said she accepts the congratulations, but added that given his ineptitude in mat­ters of romance among other things, the Jedi Chief should reserve the love for himself. 
"Let's be honest," she said. "He's going to need it a lot more than I am." 
The Absurder opted not to contact La Baron as it believed the evidence spoke for itself. 
Contact First cookie at 18 at yes@itistrue.com 



Our pizza tastes less crappy at 3 a.m. than at 3 p.m. 
Don't waste your time at Reekers when you
,. 

can experience our soggy, tasteless slices of garbage 
... 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

page 4 The Absurder+ NEWS Friday, April 1, 2005 
CORE 
IRISH INSIDE·HER!Observar Graphic 
Stepan 
continued from page 1 
ous sonior dass." 
Tho noeossary improvements nendnd for tho Joyce Center inr.Iude having gum removod from the bottom of seats, and making sure that the catwalks aro rnpaintod. 
"We havo had eomplaints for years about how out of date .loyen Center is. mainly from our baskotball fan baso," Allae-Duek said. "But now we have the per­foct opportunity to get some mueh noeded improvements done." 
Mmnbnrs of the senior dass, including student body presi­dent Bravo Moron, recently held a meoting with Allac-Duck, who said he listened to their con­cerns and was "very very sorry" about the situation. 
''I'm very very sorry about the situation," Allac-Duck said. 
Moron and members of the snnior elass asked Aflac-Ouck why the graduation could not have bnen held in any of the other 50 or so campus buildings that are larger than Stepan Centnr. Al1ac-Duck replied the administration believed Stepan Center was a perfect r.hoiee. because it is located near absolutnly none of the dorms on eampus. 
"By rnquiring our seniors and thnir families to walk to Stepan, we will enable them to experi­ence the bnauty of Notre Dame's outdoor campus for as long as possible, providing memories that will last a lifetime," he said. 
Siegfried senior Hich Snobb, upon learning of the news, promptly burned a copy of duLac. 
"It seemed like the right thing to do," Snobb said. 
Contact Hugh Jassclown at superstud69@thedome.com 

Campus reacts!!! 
Monson's shaved head causes copycat actions across campus 
By APATHETIC 
News Writer 
Inspired by assistant to the president Sandra Monson's shaving her head to protest the firing of head football coach Sly Eatingham. and her deelaration that it will remain so until Notre Dame 
wins  a  national  champi­ 
onship,  various  student  
groups have  run  with the  

idea for their own protests. 
Notre Dame Right to Life members shaved their eye­brows to protest abortion, opting for the drastic meas­ure instead of creating their traditional graveyard on South Quad. 
"Usually we make those crosses to represent aborted babies," said Right to Life member Rhea Publican. "But this was a lot easier, and just as effective I think. It took a lot of time to put those crosses in the ground, but only about three minutes to shave off my eyebrows." 
When some people criti­eized the action as irrelevant to the cause of ending abor­

tion, Publican seemed to frown, but it was hard to tell because her eyebrows were gone. 
College Democrats were also moved by the brave head-shaving. Members vowed to shave their goatees and get their peace sign tat­toos removed until a Democrat won the presiden­cy, prompting the College Hepublicans to laugh hysteri­cally and vow giving up smoking pipes and cigars until Hepublicans controlled all three branches of govern­ment. Then the College Democrats started crying, and the College Hepublicans stole their Barack Obama bumper stickers. 
Varsity football players decided to jump on the body hair removal bandwagon by shaving their legs to protest the absence of girls on the team. 
"We spend all our time with other dudes, we're shaving our legs until they lot girls on the team," line­backer Chase Myjersey said. "If they don't listen to this, I don't know what will change their minds." 
To protest proposals that would limit the number of business majors allowed at Notre Dame, business stu­dents vowed to take the 
opposite approach by grow­ing out their hair until any potential limits on the College of Business were dis­missed. 
"Fine, if being a liberal arts institution is so important then we'll show you what happens when everyone looks like a long-haired unkempt hippie," finance major Hichie Rieh said. "No way should there be fewer business majors or an appli­cation proeess to get into the college. I spent last summer at Deloitte with a fat salary and a gold Holex at the end of my internship, and my poli sei friend bought mufllns for his senator's wife in D.C. for unpaid academic credit. They can't make me one of those unemployable A&L guys." 
Some have expressed reservations about the effec­tiveness of shaving various body parts to raise aware­ness for a cause. 

"Well, I'd like to say that lying down in front of traffic or something would effect more change, but let's be· serious, it wouldn't," Monson said. "At least this way I inspired the football team to shave their legs." 
Contact ApaThetic at athetic.@idontcare.com 
Sober 
continued from page 1 
not hungovor anymore. 
I>ospite student opposition. Corduroy said he'll do what he always does -simply not listen. · 
"I and my administration never listen to tho students anyways," he said. "Why start now? We find it's easier if wn just ignore studont eon­corns and do whatever thn hell we want. then ask them for ~oney before they gradu­ate. 
Not every student dis­agreed with the dodsion. 
"My dad always told me stories of when this place was really fun and students were treated like adults, not children," Whati Sheer. "That sounded so awful. I'd much rather have no fun and be treated likn middle schoolers. This new policy solves that problem. Thank God for rules." 
The now aleohol policy is effective immediately and Corduroy already has University officials searching every students room for any alcohol. Tho Absurder has learned from sources inside the Main Building that any alcohol found in students' possession will be stored underneath the golden dome for future consumption by administration officials. 
Corduroy declined com­ment on those reported facts. 
"I just really want to go out with a bang," he said. "This way I can have a long-lasting effect on students in a com­pletely negative way and no one can stop me." 
Contact Hoe Jettier at shenanigans@8x8or9x9.com 
Sharp objects replace slo-w, buggy DART 'process' 
ByGIT R. DUNN News Writer 
Citing confusion surrounding the narnn "DAHT." the University annoum~nd its new program for studont registration would bn more efficient and rnakn morn snnse. 
DAHT. which stands l'or Darn Athletes Hngistnr l"irsT, will 111iminate tho old an~haie systmn of rngistnring online with a nnw and improved systmn. 
"Wn fnlt that the old system was eon­fusing to students." Univnrsity Hngistra.r Sistnr Mary Clarnncn said. "The nnw systnrn is mueh morn simple. and should eliminatP any eonfusion that sl.u­cllmts havn about tho moaning of the I>ABT namn." 
Tlw nnw DAHT intnrf'acn will rnplaen computMs and largo thick books of .-lass listings wilh a dartboard and threw to livP darts -depnncling on how many crndits t.hn studnnt has signed up for. 
Studnnts will stand behind a line at. a cnrtain distaneo from the dartboard. which will be locatod outside thn main doors of O'Shaughnnssy llall. Athletes will bn abln t.o stand three inches from thn board, whiln senior non-athletos will toss a foot from the board. Froshnwn will toss their darts from tho Hocknn Mmnorial building. 
"Wn wantod thn new system to make athletns feel like pimps and freshman likn thn scum of the earth, and I believe wn havn accomplished that," Clarenee said. "Of course. we'll have to make sure that nobody walks in front of the building during tho DAHT process. 
"We don't want any unnecessary injuries." 
In order to reduce the risk of' acci­dents, DAHT times will only take place bc~tween the hours of 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. 
The dartboard will be labeled with various classes, and the student will have the opportunity to toss the dart in order to S(~lect his or her desired sched­ule. 
Fun classes like Learning About Shapes will be represented by tho hull's nye, while less exeiting classes like General Chemistry will be featured on the outer wedgns. Students who miss tho board entirely will be automatically signnd up for COHE. 
"This nnw system takes thn guess­work out of elass scheduling, and also gives our underage students a reason to go out to the local bars in order to· prac­tice," Clarence said, adding, "That last part was just a joke and is o/T the record." 
Many students w(lre in favor of the new system. 
"I like the new system a lot," Knott senior Bi_gg Playa said. "It's a whole lot easier than getting that big book full of numbers, only to find out that the num­ber for the class you thought you signed up for was actually the number for Gender Studies." 
But the positive reaction was not cam­pus wide. 
"This new system bites," Pangborn sophomore Wie Kling said. "I ended up with three sessions of COHE and two University seminars." 
Contact Git R. Dunn at overlyusedsaying@getalife.com 

The D.A.R.T. Board 
CORE 
LLJ 
0 ~ 
U' 


Friday, April 1, 2005 
The Absurder+ NEWS page 3 
By I PREFER HERSHEY'S 
News Writer 
Students' questions about the impor­tance of tM current Dome refurbishment were finally answered Thursday after­noon. 
In an unexpected press conference, University officials revealed the real rea­son for the construction is to replace the statue of Mary, which is actually made of chocolate, before the onset of summer heat causes it to melt. The original statue was replaced with a chocolate duplicate in an act of vandalism earlier this school year. 
The replacement was first discovered when students in a freshman astronomy class spotted a Nestle logo on the bottom left side of Mary's robe through the tele­scope. Closer inspection revealed a foil­wrapped pure milk chocolate figure in the place where the gilt statue had once stood. 
"The doggone thing looked exactly the same as the old one," university spokesperson M. T. Wallet said. "We're not really sure how they did that without a crane or a helicopter. But they sure pulled a doozie on us." 
Although the replacement statue has held up in colder South Bend weather, officials are worried about how it will be affected by the spring thaw. As tempera­tures increase, Mary may begin to lose her shape. 
"We wanted to wait until after com­mencement," Wallet said. "But then we thought about all those graduation pic­tures with chocolate oozing down the dome. And we figured, taking it down now is easier than cleaning that sticky mess off the gilding." 
University officials considered releasing 

Do111e project replacing chocolate Mary statue 
the real reason for the refurbishment ear­lier, but were pretty embarrassed that they lost the first statue. 
"I mean, what kind of a bonehead loses a huge gilded statue?" Wallet said. "We just it would be better to try to pass it off like routine maintenance. But people were so mad anyway, we thought we might as well own up." 
Plans to keep the next statue from being stolen include covering the Dome with cooking spray every night so vandals won't be able to scale it, and surrounding the Main Building with large angry dogs. 
"Notre Dame has always worked for this friendly, loving image," Wallet said. "It's time to get mean. The new Notre Dame won't let just anyone saunter up on the Dome." 
As a consolation for covering up the dome during graduation, the university plans to use the melted down statue to throw a giant fondue party for the gradu­ating seniors and their families. The party will be held on the football field, where officials will also let people wear the foot­ball team's actual gold-colored helmets. 
"We figure, we'll swap one golden dome for another one," Wallet said. "See, that'll make for some pretty good pictures too, right?" 
Notre Dame Security/Police is still look­ing for old statue, which they hope might turn up during end of the year dorm searches. 
"It's not so easy to get a thing like that past the security gates," Wallet said. "That thing's gotta be on campus somewhere. And when it turns up, we're putting them both up there, side by side. Two Marys ... that's better than all those other Catholic schools." 
Contact I Prefer Hershey's at notnesde@chocolate.edu 


Work for 


adidas 
continued from page 1 
ty of their graduation." 
Baffled-Ways reacted with surprise when it was suggested that money was a factor. 
"The fact that Adidas is giv­ing us $5,394 million a year for this has nothing to do with it, we're doing this because we truly care about our students," Baffled-Ways said, as he fondly admired the complimentary adidas trainers on his feet. 
In addition, there alleviate speculation the administration is more con­cerned about football season with a new head coach than the celebration of receiving a diploma as a culmination of four years of learning, allega­

tions that he dismissed  as  
"hogwash."  
Student  Senate  held  an  

emergency meeting to discuss whether it was acceptable to still be pissed about the dome, eventually passing a resolution entitled, "We're Still Pissed About the Dome." Sorin sena­tor Free Kinannoying said he wanted his pic­ture taken next 
We are ... 
• 
the campus magazine that prints whenever we feel lil<e it 

• 
more than just the Gi·pper, even if most people may think differently 

• 
really good at printing 49,-82 3 pictures of ourselves in the Sarcastic 

• 
not actually on "heroine" as some of us may claim 



was a compromise 
"We're doing this 
about the scaffold­to the Virgin ing itself, which to show that we Mary, and was will remain in then slapped by
reqlly do care 
place after the logo Senior Class
about our
is pasted to the Council mem­dome with glue. graduating class." bers present. "As a special Senior class treat for our sen­president
Sean Baffled-Ways
iors, we will also Pharrell Nott
executive vice 
allow them to was too stunned climb up on the president to speak after 
scaffolding with their loved ones so they can take pictures right there next to Mary herself, instead of that lame in front of the Main Building shot," Baffled-Ways said proudly. 
"In lieu of taking down the ghastly visual reminder that we don't give a rat's ass about undergraduates -I mean, that we care about them very much -we will give them 'this special opportunity. What more do they want than their family, The Virgin Mary and the ginormous three-stripe logo?" 
Baffled-Ways expected sen­iors to be elated about the turn of events and hold adidas as close to their hearts as the vision of the dome, because they got those free white adi-· das visors freshman year. He hoped the new plans would 
learning of the 

latest develop­ment in the dome uglification saga, but recovered in time to present a new hypothetical contract to Baffled-Ways. 
''I'm impressed with the hard work of the students," Baffled­Ways said as he casually dropped the document into a paper shredder and lit the shreds with a lighter. "It just kills me that these students are so dedicated to having the freakin' dome look like it has the whole time they've been here." 
Unlike the Oct. 1 deadline for the re-gilding process, the new adidas logo should be complete as soon as OfficeMax gets another shipment of Elmer's. 
Contact Scru Doversenior at scaffolding@nd.edu 






.------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 INSIDE COLUMN 
Seniors get shafted 
With this hning my senior year and my limn hero coming to an nnd, I would like to thank the University for all they have done to help keep the sonior class's moralo high this year. 
Thanks for dedding to eovor thn domo with seaf'f'olding this spring so it wouldn't be visi­hlo during our gradualion. The dome really isn't a symbol of' any­

Mark Markens
thing about the University any­way, so I roally 
StuffInsider
would rathor that such an insignificant part of' campus be covored up during my last wnnknnd as a student here. Why would pnople want to take a pieture in front or tho dome any­way, when you could have a pic­ture takon in your cap and gown in front of tho lwautif'ul Stopan Center? 
Thanks for moving tho SYHs out or tho dorms, as woll as instituting tho new aleohol policy during our f'rnshman ynar. The University rnally onhaJH:nd tho dorm expori­onco for tho following yoars. I real­ly didn't havn any run at those SYHs my freshman year whnn you could go up and have a few shots whonnvor you wanted and thorn worn partins in every other room. It's bonn so much more fun bning sobnr and listening to "J.ikn a Prayer" I 0 limns whilo dancing in tho dining hall for :n minutes. 
Thanks for tho bookstore and thoir groat pri<:os. And also for thinking that selling shot glassos is a groat idna. It makes rno proud tho University would try to make an extra buck on shot glassos whon the whole roason for its exis­tence is banned on thn campus thoy sell it 011. 
Thanks for tho construction bning donn all across campus. I am so happy that I stayed on-campus all four ynars, tho construction around Dillon this ynar has been a wonderful experience. I love being woken up by construction workors oarly in the morning and listening to their loud machines throughout the day. And who doesn't love the construction tape blocking ofl' the sidewalks and the entrances to the dorm? I know I do. 
Thanks to tho football and men's basketball learns for having awe­some seasons this year. As some­one that attended every game in my four years here, the last horne games for both sports were sueh a great way to go out, and I eouldn't ask for a better finish to such bril­liant seasons. 
Oh, and also, on a more sincere level, thanks for eliminating the security guards in girls dorms so that I could break parietals easier this year. 
And that's all I've got to say about that. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of The Observer. since we can't remember which editor was too drunk to read this. 
CORRECTIONS 
We never make mistakes. Ever. And ifwe do, we really don't wanr 10 hear about them. Especially from little runts like you. Call us at 1-4541 ro hear Mr. Garrison from South Park say, "You go to hell. You go to hell and you die.': 

The Absurder+ PAGE DEUCE QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO'D YOU RATHER -


Hott Dogg Trim da Bush Nice stache 
Security
SDH Grill Maintenance 

peeping tom 
worker with cool vehicle "Both -at the "Whichever one 
same time." leaves her
"Whichever one 

curtains open. " 
is neatly trimmed." 


NOTRE DAME OR SAINT MARY's? 


Ellen Big snout Fla Aim er 
Bad talk show North Quad My shirt says host Resident At Ease 
"Three letters "Notre Dame, "Notre Dame -S-M-C." especially those boys. especially 

FUY CHENITEZ!The Observer An academic representative for worthless student government explains the birthing process to an uncomfortable group of professors. 
BEATOFF 
Student attacked on treadmill 
HOLFS -A Notre Dame freshman punched a Notre Dame senior Thursday afternoon when the senior wouldn't get off her tread­mill. 
The incident occurred when the freshman eon­fronted the senior who was running on treadmill num­ber three. The freshman said she had signed up for the 3:30 p.m. to 4 time period on this treadmill. 
The senior insisted the freshman was mistaken and aeted calmly while suggesting the two check the signup log. 

But the freshman insist­ed she was right. 
Checking the signup log showed the freshman signed up for treadmill number four. 
Squirrel mates with duck 
SOUTH QUAD -Not fol­lowing any of the rules outlined in duLac, a squir­rel happened to be mating with a duck in the middle of South Quad Wednesday afternoon. 
Talking to biology profes­sors revealed a race of fat and happy animals could be created if this mating ritual continues. 
It was not known if any of the animals had escaped from the Radiation Lab. 
Girl and boy sit together at dining hall 
NDII -Attempting to actually foster gender rela­tions on campus, a girl and boy were spotted sharing a meal at North Dining flail Thursday afternoon. 
The two ate chicken nuggets, steakhouse fries, corn and drank water. 

When asked how long it took to set up this date, the two refused to classify the meal as that, falling back in line with the Notre Dame community stereo­type. 
9:07A.M. 11:49 A.M. 1:24 P.M. 4:20P.M. 
a: 
LLI 
:::1: 
!cC 
LLI 
3: 
...... 
<
CJ 



0 

15 89 54 23
..... 

BP girls." the ones in that Zahm 'Call on Me' video." 
IN BRIEFS 
A Barely Legal Party will lw hold in Keough Hall Saturday, starting at 9:01 a.m. and run­ning until 1:59 a.m. Sunday morning. The beverage of' ehoien being served will have 
13.9 pen:nnt akohol. 
Water balloons will lw dropped and launched from St. Edward's llall at 3 p.m. onto unsuspecting passersby this af'ternoon. Tho targets of thnsn balloons will bn females wearing while T-shi1·ts. 
A ledurn will be held in tlw Mendo:at Collegn of Business at 7:30p.m. Some bigshot CEO will be talking about how lw resur­rected his company from tlw ashns. Attendance is expnctPd to be one Obsnrvnr reporter and two MBA students. 
The Carenr Contor will be holding a workshop Monday al'ternoon entitlnd, "It's not just you, interns really don't do anything on their summer internships." Topics covered will be tunnnling around eom­pany firnwalls, maximizing trips to tho water eoolnr and shooting tlw bniezn with otlwr cubidn dwellers. 
A "Sex and the City" marathon will lake place in Badin Hall this evening start­ing at 6:30 p.m. Any males that show up will have his manhood questioned. 
Tho Notre Dame Fraudit department is sponsoring a "How to JHlY three football eoaehes at onee" seminar Saturday al'tnrnoon sonwwhere in Grace Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. well, we really don't care. 
7:11P.M. 11:59 P.M. 


78 -20 

America (OK) 56 1 32 Climax (NY) 55 I 40 Death Valley 85 I 57 Hell 88 I 31 Lake Wobegon 43 I 27 Melody 65 I 23 Mount Rushmore 59 138 Oxymoron 23 I 52 Utopia 75 I 65 Walla Walla 57 I 41 Willoughby Hills 50 I 37 
~------­

University plans more changes for graduation 
Dome to sport adidas logo, scaffolding can be climbedfor pictures 
By SCRU DOVERSENIOR 
News Writer 
In response to the vehement student outcry about re-gilding the famed golden dome during spring graduation, university officials agreed to halt the re­gilding and announced that they will instead have a giant adidas logo fastened to the front of the dome's surface just in time for commencement. 
"We're doing this to show that we really do care about Also See 
our graduat­ing class," "Dome project said Sean 
replacing

Baffled-Ways, 
chocolate Mary

executive vice presi­statue" dent. "It hurt 
page tres

me personal­ly that stu­dents said the scaffolding was 'ugly,' or 'a hideous monstrosity of an eye­sore.' We thought that having the adidas logo was a great way of showing that we do care about the aesthetic quali­
see ADIDAS/page 3 

Campus drinking age increases to 23 
By HOE JETTLER News Writer 
In a move that made Father Spark Richwoman cry with joy, Father President Medbard "Dunk" Corduroy changed the drinking age for all Notre Dame students to 23 years old, at a press con­ference Thursday. 
"This campus was having way too much fun," Corduroy said. "I had to put a stop to that fun immediately." 
Corduroy has also overseen the SYR's being taken out of dorms and hard alcohol pro­hibited from campus. He said upping the drinking age so no undergraduates could drink was, naturally, the next move. 
"This is one instance when the motto, "God, Country, Notre Dame," should be changed to God, Notre Dame, Country," Corduroy said. 
Additionally, Corduroy said any student under 23 caught drinking any alcohol any­where in the world will be forced to watch film of Notre Dame's football games against Southern California during the past three sea­
sons. On top of that punish­ment, students will be sus­pended from class and forced to move into the radiation building. 
Former student body presi­dent Never Getanythingdone welcomed the change with open arms. 
"I think this is great," Getanythingdone said. "I think students should focus on studies more, rather than spending all their time and money having fun drinking. This will not only make stu­dents lives filled with far less fun, but also allow them to have more money to donate to Notre Dame." 
Students, however, were quite enraged. 
"How can they do this to us?" Iluv Boat said. "What will the administration do next? Put scaffolding up around the dome for gradua­tion?" 
Fellow student Corbys lsthebest agreed. 
"I'd much rather drink heavily and kill my brain cells then study and get good grades," Is thebest said. "I guess I'll have to go to class 
see SOBER/ page 4 






The above graphic, taken from a certain president's away message who assumes the position today, shows we find out about everything. Read the story at the right for anoth­er true event. 
Ceremony moved from JACC fo attractive Stepan 
By HUGH JASSCLOWN News Writer 
With one dome out of commis­sion, seniors will be able to have an up close and personal encounter with another dome -Stepan Center's geodesic mon­strosity. 
Emergency improvements are required to the Joyce Center, University executive vice-presi­dent Ron Aflac-Duck said Thursday. Senior class gradua­tion, which was originally scheduled to be held in the 12,000-plus capacity facility, will now be held in Stepan Center, with a capacity of about 500. 
"We understand how impor­tant having graduation in a large spacious building is for our seniors, but there's an arts and crafts show coming into the Joyce the weekend after gradu­ation, and we need that facility to be in perfect condition," Aflac-Duck said. 
"Stepan is a fine facility that will provide our seniors with a unique opportunity that has never been enjoyed by a previ­
see STEPAN/page 4 

SHADY DEALINGS 
La Baron bribes editor 
By FIRST COOKIE AT 18 News Writer 
In a thinly veiled attempt to solicit a "favor-and flavor­filled" relationship, the top stu­dent government official recently preyed on the top edi­tor's heart and sweet tooth with a love note and chocolates, The Absurder has learned (and has been waiting to report). 
The editor in question returned to her unlocked dorm room in February and discov­ered an 8 oz. box of assorted chocolates from the South Bend Chocolate Factory. 
At first she was alarmed that the alleged perpetrator, known as La Baron or even sometimes the Jedi Chief, entered her room when neither she nor her roommate were present. She suspects he used his stealth­like skills he learned from his time as a baby-faced boy scout to enter her room undetected. Alarm turned to anger when 
see BRIBE/page 5 
page 12 
PSP game reviews from Mark and Trevor 
Untold Legends: Brotherhood of the Blade 
Tlw rol«>-playing game selection at launch was relatively w«>ak, consisting of only one game. Considering it was role­playing games that pushed the initial l'laystation, the lack or such games is noticeable. Fortunately, "Untold Legends" is not a bad one. 
"Untold l.ngends" is an action role-playing game, similar to "Diablo" and "Baldur's Gate." It can be played either solo or with 3 friends. giving the playnr a ehanee to tnst the Wi-Fi. Tho dilliculty ramps up aeeording to tho numbnr of players, giving tim ganm a deeent ehallnngo. 
Thn graphics arn decent, as is the sound quality. Neither orw is particularly impressive, but sirnultanoously not dis­tradingly bad. The loading times arn a major drawback for this ganw sincn limy are frnquont and run on the long side. Nothing can interrupt a good ogre slashing like having to wait almost half a rninutn for the next arna to load. 
Overall rating: B+ 
Darkstalkers Chronicles: The Chaos Tower 
Tlw "Darkstalkers" snrins is an odd choice as one of the launch tillns. Tlw series has benn morn of a niche title than Capcom's nwrn popular fighters but it still has a small, but devoted, ranhasn. llopnfully this situation will change with "I >arkslalknrs Chronicles." 
Tlw ganw is orw of thn most heautil'ul animated 2D lightnrs on t.lw market. Hach of the charaetnrs is a fluid, colorful Ca peom !' n~a tio n. T h n game rnvoIvns around the Ilarkstalk«>rs, who arn based on the famous monsters of cine­matic and written history. Franknnstein's monster is present, as arn an assortment of vampires, wnmwolvns and otlmr mythological ereatures. 
Tlw ganw also has a ton of unloekabln game features. Cirwmatks, artwork and Darkstalkers tunes can all be unlorkPd, adding to the rnplay value of the game. The only detnrrnnt would be based in the garneplay itself. Being a lighting game, the replay value relies on the garners love for tlw genn~. Whiln thn game may not convert anyone, fans of tlw lighting genre would be amiss to overlook this title. 
Overall rating: A 
Ape Escape: On the Loose 
The Gameboy DS has "Mario 64," and the PSP has "Ape 1\scapn." While solid in its own right, the game doesn't bring anything new to the table. 
A platlimning game similar to Mario, thn game begins with a horde of evil monkeys hell-bent of rewriting history. It is the player's job to go through history and capturn all the mon­keys, sntting things right. As morn monkeys are eollected, humorous descriptions are unlocknd. Comedy is key through­out the game, as the cinematics, sounds and the monkeys thnmsnlvns ean bn prntty amusing. 
Tlw game controls well, even though the original used dual analog controllers. The graphics don't quite push the PSP 1:apahilities, but they aren't distracting. The game also uses the Wi-Fi for up to two players and multiple players ean faee ofl' in the unloekable mini-games. Overall, the PSP's eurrent solo platformer is worth pieking up. 
Overall rating: A-



All games currently available for the PSP showcase erisp graphies, superb textures and, for the most part, silky smooth framerates -a high amount of frames per second. While "Untold Legends" has fram­erate issues when the enemies become tori numerous for the processor to handle comfortably ­this ean also bo an issue in multi­player due to lag time -all in all, I give the graphics a solid 10 out of 10. 
Overall rating: A+ 
Sound 

The built-in stereo speakers are 
very capable in themselves (loud enough that I can hear my room­
• mate in the center room or the quad sl-ashing through "Untold Lngnnds" while working on my papor in the next room over). But, as always, the headphones indudod with the valuo pack are necessary to gain the full exporienee. The PSP is also capable of playing MP3 musk Iiles, which are saved to the removable and upgradeable Memory Stkk Duo. 
Overall rating: A 
Design 

The same familiar buttons -X, tri­anglfl, circle and squnre -makn another appoaranee on Sony's lat­est r.n~ation. An analog r.ontrnl "nub" is locatnd in thn lower left of the hardwan~. but unfortunately its po~ition can beeomo very uneom~ fortnbln. I also am concnrrwd about its dura.bil.ity ip thn long run. 
Tlw standard D-pad locatod above tho analog control functions adequatt>ly but is a little sloppy to use in games requiring tight con­trol. Thn L and H buttons at tlw top of tlw I'SP an~ unnnrvingly flimsy. A line or smaller buttons that run along tho bottom underrwath tho seroen include a "home" button that n~turns the J>SP to t.ho OS launch serenn, volume control, display brightness with four settings, rnusie tone fiJr MJ>3 playback that switches between I Ieavy, Pops, Jazz, Unique, and Ofl' and the all too familiar and Select buttons. lnstan these buttons sticking ha reported. Also, problems square button sticking pia small pereontago or the released in .Japan on Dee. 12, 
The powor button, wi onable/disable switch and (Universal Media Disc, form whkh games and videos an~ t1m) rnloasn are all located o side of tho I'SJ>. Tho power also doubles as a "hold" abling all button commands, is handy during MP:{ or vidPo bttr.k. Also locatnd along porinwtor an' tlw USB port, phon!' port and powPr jacks, as t.lw slot that. housns tlw M Stick I>uo. 
There is no doubt that w cornns t.o looks. thn PSI' is orw maehirw. Hownver, tlw avid will f'ind that tho controls !Tamps ono's hands. Tho sturdinnss of tho l'Sl' is uu point. ol' concern. Tlw door tho Memory Stick Duu is lli the lJMD drivo somns t.o hP pa larly vulrwrabln to darnagn wl is opnn. 
Finally, thP giant 4.] inch 1.< groat as it is. snnrns to lw lill' srnudgns and S!Tatdws. I tlw J>SP value pack eornos protoetivn casn to lwlp avnrt possibiP tragndi1~s from o1:cur 

-1 
I 
l
Tt---lE OBSERVER 

I

IEWPOINT I 
Friday, April 1, 2005 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
An open letter to John Affleck-Graves 
After reading "Seniors, administrators still divid­ed over the dome" in the Observer on Wednesday, March 30, I was most dissatisfied with both your response and the University's response to the needs of students, especially to those of the graduating senior class. 
Had this been the first instance of the administra­tion's indifference to the student body, I would have been peeved but nowhere near as enraged as I cur­rently find myself. I will not, however, dwell upon the numerous instances of outright indifference and/or concern for mere profit that I have observed through my years at the University of Notre Dame. Nevertheless, I will use the controversy over the re-gilding of the golden Dome as symbol of the administration's apathy and outright antagonism to the needs and desires of students. 
To say, as you are quoted as saying, "We realize this iS>" a disappointment to the senior class," is the ultimate understatement. While you attempt to downplay the importance of the physical symbol of the golden Dome, you neglect to mention the heavy importance that the administration places upori the very symbol you seek to deny the importance of. The question arises as to why the administration chooses to place the golden Dome on the forefront of applications, brochures and media guides. To say the least, the golden Dome is one of the most important marketing images that the University of Notre Dame employs. The importance of the Dome, however, extends well beyond marketing. If the importance of the Dome were minimal, would Notre Dame students and alumni be referred to as "Domers" throughout the world? Would the football team have kept their golden helmets for so long? Clearly, the importance of the golden Dome as physical symbol of the university is undeniable. 
You, sir, however, deny the importance of the Dome continually, as you state, "Graduation is not about the physical Dome. You don't remember standing in front of it getting your picture taken." Contrary to your assertion, the main building and Dome form an essential part of the graduation fes­tivities. Since you state that you have had two chil­dren graduate from Notre Dame, I am sure you are aware of the tradition that demands undergradu­ates do not set foot on the steps in front of the main building until they graduate. Throughout my four years, my fellow classmates and I have looked forward to the day where we can set foot on the steps and have our picture taken on the steps of the main building with the golden Dome glinting in the sun above. Such a moment was me11nt to signify the completion of the enormous journey that we unaertook as freshman four long years ago. 
Upon graduation this year, my classmates and I will stand proudly on the steps although the Dome will not be glinting above, as the view will be replaced by a grotesque network of metal scaffold­ing obscuring the Dome. At first, I was enraged by the prospect of not possessing the picture I had dreamed of taking as a freshman. Now I am excited about the photo opportunity. What other photo­graph could better convey the administration's complete indifference and antagonism towards stu­dents? 
Perhaps your two children could have alerted you to the outrage that the scaffolding would provoke from the graduating senior class, as you claim that you "did not anticipate the huge reaction from the class." Although you insist that undergraduates are your top priority, one would assume that a person's top priority would be at the forefront of his mind when confronted with new developments that would affect that supposed top priority. Although you suggest that at "other times the Dome has been re-gilded the students have not been so upset," what you shrewdly fail to mention is that the last time the Dome was re-gilded the process began one week after graduation. Of course with no students present on campus -as they all headed happily home with their memories and photographs docu­menting many of these memories -few students would express their outrage of the scaffolding obscuring the Dome. 
While the administration and you use the length of time necessary for the re-gilding process to jus­tify the early start date for the process, I am left wondering whether your decision reflects a desire to save money by not springing for overtime costs or just mere ignorance concerning the needs and desires of students. I can hardly help laughing to myself when I remeinber a story I was told on the tour of the University of Notre Dame, a tour, which was instrumental in my desire to attend this uni­versity. The story proceeded as follows: 
"During the spring of 1879, tragedy befell the still young University of Notre Dame, as the main building burned to the ground, destroying class­rooms, eating facilities, offices and much of the library collection. Father Sorin, founder of Notre Dame, however was undeterred by the tragedy. In a famous speech he vowed, 'If it were all gone, I should not give up ... Tomorrow we will build again, and build it bigger.' Through hard work and determination, 300 laborers rebuilt the entire main building larger and grander in just one summer. The new main building was ready by the time stu­dents arrived in September despite the seemingly insurmountable obstacle that Father Sorin faced three short months previous when the building burned to the ground." 
Having listened to such stories and being trans­formed by such a beautiful and unique campus, I was determined to attend the University of Notre Dame, even if it was beyond my family's means. Now we are told merely the re-gilding of the Dome will take over six months and will be completed by October. How is it that men working in the heat of the summer of 1879 can build the premier symbol of Notre Dame in three short months but the tech­nology and professionalism of laborers in the 21st century cannot refurbish the Dome and statue of Mary in less than six months? 
Finally, I feel compelled to respond to the invita­tion for suggestions about how to deal with the sit­uation and how to make up the horrible loss to the senior class. I offer my suggestions in reference to your appeal: "If seniors have suggestions we will entertain everything ... but I know the seniors are paying a price and we can never fully compensate." To you sir, I humbly ask that you refrain from solic­iting donations from members of my class, for your requests will fall meekly upon deaf ears hardened by four long years of neglect. 
Darren Luft 
sen1or 
Zahm Hall 
March 3o 

Rethink 'protesting' 
It's not that I don't value my right to free speech and peaceful assembly, but I am always irked by protesters, usually for a liberal cause, irrespon­sibly overstepping the bounds of civility and disrupting entire city cen­ters for their all-important credo ­one that is dwarfed by the causes of those in Uganda last week or Tiananmen square fifteen years ago. 
In his article, "Inject poten­graphic Quaranto targets traditional­ly and conspicuously wastes). 
Quaranto hardly deserves to invoke the sacrifices of those in Uganda for causes here that are petty by com­parison. He ought to count his bless­ings that in this country we have the freedom to debate issues such as tlie war in Iraq in a vibrant public 
square, and face no risk of being 

shot at during peaceful cy into American protests," 
protests. · (Mar. 30) Peter Quaranto, 


Next time irresponsible lamenting about how protestors of the Iraq "protests have become war illegally flow onto trivial in our times," Lakeshore Drive to glorifies the protest­stop traffic and make ers of the 1960s who their point (as they took over adminis­did in 2003), I have tration buildings, to say a prayer that blocked traffic and my brother is not disrupted the lives trying to drive up to of as many people as Children's Memorial possible, all for their Hospital with my liberal agenda -eight-month-old niece, probably under the whose heart condition impression that masses may require this at any of a repressed proletariat time -impeded by an would thank them one day. ideology that he, like a 
He goes on to mqck modern protests, belittling their efforts as they "sing the usual protest hymns and perhaps march down the side­walk-sure not to bother traffic." I have to wonder why Quaranto is so eager to force his zeal upon those who may, God forbid, be satisfied enough with this great country to choose to affect change either through respectful and legal protests, or their vote (a right that the demo-
majority of this country, doesn't care for. 
So for Advocacy Week, I would ask Peter Quaranto to consider writing a more "potent" letter to his congress­man instead. 
William Weicher freshman Siegfried Hall March 31 

Sex and the City? Not this city 
Upon reading "Sex and Ivy League isn't an oxymoron" [Associated Press, March 30], I was surprised at the casual tone of the article and how casual­ly the contents of the book, "Chloe Does Yale," were being treated. In a way, I was somewhat jealous. 
Recently, I happened to come across Natalie Krinsky's novel and couldn't help but notice its premise. Krinsky was able to write a "Sex and the (Elm) City" column for the Yale Daily News and it was no big thing. It was just a daily column. I then asked myself why a prestigious institution like Notre Dame did not have anything comparable to that. In fact, we have nothing remotely close. If the Ivy leagues can talk about sex, why can't we? There is no dialogue about sex, relationships or drunken hookups. We like to call ourselves the "Harvard of the Midwest," but even Harvard has a sex maga­zine, H Bomb, which started last year. The mere mention of the Vagina Monologues causes an overwhelming controversy here. We seem to find conversations about relationships, gender issues and gender interactions trivial and unimportant. If it isn't an "intellectually stimulating" conversa­tion or debate about Conservatives or Liberals, Notre Dame students can't be bothered. I mean, who has time to actually date someone? A random hook-up on the weekend will suffice as long as no one mentions it again. No one wants to look like a floozy, so it must be better not to talk about it. 
I understand that this is a Catholic institution and, of course, we, as stu­dents, strive to adhere to the Catholic teachings, but that does not mean sex and drunken hook-ups do not happen. It also does not mean we cannot talk about these issues either. I am not saying that this behavior is always moral but rather suggesting the possibility for dialogue. Maybe, a dialogue of sorts would help to relieve the awful tension between genders. I think most will agree that the dating scene at Notre Dame is less than stellar. However, maybe if we weren't so hesitant to discuss the conflicts of the many differ­ent relationships, there wouldn't be as much of a strain. 
Or maybe if we can keep pretending that if these topics of conversation should cease to be brought up, then we can pretend that sex and hook-ups don't happen. 
Bethann Visceglia sophomore Howard Hall March 30 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, April I, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
PU. !lox 779, Notrt Dame, IN 46SS6 024 Smuh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46S56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 
MANM:ING EDITOII BUSINESS MANAGER Mcghanne L>owncs Mike l'huwgan 
Ass·J: MANAGINt; EDITOII Joe lletdcr 
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VI~WI'OINT EDITOR: Sarah VabuhL< SPORTS EmroR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GIIAJ>IIIC~ EDITOR: Mike Harkins AnVER'IlSING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin An DI:siGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
CONTROI.l.ER: Michael L1ndsbcrg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

Keep the same turnover date 
Every year, this day marks a major ehange in one of the them. Furthermore, the previous administration ran lw a most well-known campus organizations -student gov­valuable resouren to the nP.w administration, a n~source ernment. April 1 is the turnover date for student admin­that will not exist if turnovnr doesn't take placn until istrations, the day on which a new student body presi­after graduation. dent, viee president and their staff take the reins and Hcgardless of whon turnover occurs -and no mattnr begin their term. how much preparation is involved-tlu~re will be a pnri­
However, the timing of the turnover date has reeently od of acclimation for tho nnw administration. It is lwttnr come under scrutiny. Student government for this period to oeeur in the spring rathnr groups have diseussed postponing turnover than in thn fall, when the student body u11til the day after eommencement to allow OJhe expeets its government to hit tlw"ground outgoing administrations to take advantage running and begin major work on its proj­of the time new administrations would waste ects. acelimating to their new jobs. This, certain Most othor campus clubs and organiza­
Editorial
senators argun, would provide time for the tions have their turnovers in the spring. 
outgoing administration to finish its projects Beeause most elubs must interaet with stu­
and educate the new officers through observation. dent government on some level, a later turnover date 
But while this sounds sensible on the surface, a date would mean these dubs' new ol'ficers would he working 
change would not allow for inereased productivity in stu­with two different administrations. Potential confusion 
dent government. stemming from this arrangement could be avoided if' stu­
At its heart, government includes the continuation of dent government is kept on the same scheduln as tlw work from one administration to the next. Student gov­other elubs. ernment routinely takes on long-term projects which Finally, a later turnover datn means more work for sen­span more than one year. A new administration should iors who are getting rnady to graduate. They should be be able to continue projects begun during the year, and given the last month of their college careers to spend 
• the previous administration should take the month time with friends, redaim their lives and take in tlwir between elections and turnover to brief new officers on final views of campus from the dorms and quads-not these projects so they are fully prepared to continue from a window in LaFortune. 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

A time for fools 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

Why is it that complica­new calendar, modestly dally adopted the Gregor­not infallible. In Portugal.
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoinr.l@nd.edu 

tions in today's religious named the "Gregorian ian Calendar. By the time April Fool's Day is cele­
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 
631-4543 sports.! @nd.cdu and social life seem to Calendar," as a replace­of the American Revolu­brated on the Sunday and SCENE DESK always date back to a time ment for the old Julian tion, the British had Monday before Lent when 

(574) 
631-4540 sccne.l@nd.edu when one of the many Calendar. It seems that exported a January New pranksters usually throw 


SAINT MARY'S DESK 

Popes back then, God spoke to Year and April Fool's Day llour at their friends.
smc.l @nd.edu Gary Caruso 

named Gregory much like He from England to the Mexico's counterpart of
PHOTO DESK 

Gregory emphatically and clearly American colonies. April Fool's Day is actually
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS initiated Capitol speaks today to Pat It is ironic that Gregory, observed on December 2H. 
(574) 631-8839 change? Comments Robertson or Gerry Falwell a man quite· serious about Originally, the day was a Today's about the excesses in the his mission in life, inadver­sad remembrance of the 
THE Homan Catholie priests can Christian's life. At that tently created today's mod­slaughter of the innocent0BSERVERONL/N£ thank a·n early Gregory for time, the New Year cele­ern April Fool's Day silli­children by King lierod. It 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 

their celibacy which began bration began on March 25 ness. It began during the eventually evolved into a POLICIES around the sixth century. It and ended on April 1. The 16th century when Franee lighter commemoration 
The Ob . ...-rver is the independem, daily newspaper seems that celibacy was a neatness of closely follow­adopted the reformed cal­involving pranks and trick­published in print and online by the students ofthe byproduct of ownership. ing the vernal equinox by endar in 1564. Many ery. University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Until that time, married celebrating the Feast of refused to acknowledge the In a recent survey of 
C.ollege. Editorial content, including advertisemenrs, is 

priests, upon their deaths, Annunciation as the begin­new date, did not learn American Catholics, nearly 
nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither 

could leave their property ning of the new year did about it or simply forgot, 67 percent agreed that it 
irL<titution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 

to their wives rather than not seem neat to Gregory. and still celebrated the was time for the Church to
adverrisemenrs based on content. 

to the Church. Pope Pope Gregory must have new year in April. Others update its practiees to
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as 

Gregory demanded celiba­firmly believed the Bible began to make fun of these address the complexities of
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing EditoJ; cy as a means for the . passage in Corinthians traditionalists, sending our modern international A'>.<i.~tam Managing Editor and deparrmenr editors. Church to gain more prop­1:27 which reads, "But God them on "fools' errands" or soeiety. After studying how Commentaries, letters and columns presenr r.he views erty. hath ehosen the foolish trying to trick them into the calendar change can ofrhe authors and not neces.•arily those ofThe Fast forward to the 16th things of the world to con­believing something false affect our way of life for Observer. Century for Pope Gregory found the wise; and God like sending foolish gifts centuries, our next Pope
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

XIII, who was never one to hath chosen the weak and invitations to nonexist­may want to carefully con­
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 

march to another's calen­things of the world to con­ent parties. The French sider the eonsequenees of
Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include 

dar, thus turning the found the things which are eame to call April 1 what may eome to pass in 
conracr information. 

known civilized world on mighty." "Poisson d'Avril," or "April the future. Until then, Qutrtions rrgdrding Obser11er polides !'hould be its head and creating Therefore, Gregory's new Fish." throw llour, paste !'ish on dirt:ctrd to Editor in Chiej'Mtltt l.oMr. today's April Fool's Day. Of calendar dictated that New Today, French children others' baeks and try to course, a fool's day is but Year's Day be celebrated still tape a picture of a fish avoid beeoming a "noodle" one of' many divisions on January 1, leaving on the baeks of their or "gowk" today.
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

resulting from the edicts of Jesus' birth to eorrespond schoolmates, yelling
TilC OtucrYCt (Usrs ';99 .2-4000) is published Momi.ay thrnugh FndJ.y cxcep1 during 

tum alkl YKIIIIUII pc:r1nda. A mhKtlption to ·n,t O~rver i• SI00 for one ~cadcmic Gregory. Our medieval to the winter solstice. "Poisson d'Avril" or "April Gary Caruso, Notre !Jame Y'CIU'i $~~lOt nllt' KlllcUtf 
instigator has wreaked Many eountries, however, Fish" when their pranks '73, served as a legislative havoe throughout the year resisted the ehange. In are discovered. llowever, and public affairs dirl'clor 
·n.c Ohtcr~r I• .,Uhll\hcd II: roSTMASTER 

with branehes of' the faet, it is astounding to in England, tricks can only in President Clinton's
02-i Suuth Pinmtc. IIJJl Scond addrn. rorn:clinru co: Ncutf: Do~mC', IN -tcj'S~6-tJ71'J The Olncrver 

Church celebrating a dif­think that some European be played in the morning, administration. 1/is column 
£'tnodic.aljKUI.If{t p.mi .11 None l>1mc: P.O. A01 779 

.tiKI ,~,!dl!lun.al mo11hng ntlicu 02-1 Somh Di1unR 111111 ferent day l'or Christmas countries held out for cen­whieh makes you a "noo­appears e1wry other Friday. NotR' [');uue, IN ~(,ljlj(1·0779 
and Easter as well as the turies-Scotland until dle" rather than a fool. In lie can fw contacted at mark of the new year. 16M}; Germany, Denmark Scotland, you are called an lwtlfin e@aol. (:om. Today we mark the 443rd and Norway until 1700; "April gowk," or a cuckoo The 11iews expressed in 
'11u: Oll~l'o'(r i, .I mcmhrr ur lhl' ~'IO..i;ltt'd Prc!tll. All repm.luctinn dghl-llrt" t~l~tr.l 

anniversary of the creation and England until nearly bird. Hogard lnss of thn t.his column an' those of the of April Fool's Day. In two centuries later when in many subtle variations, tlw author and not necessarily 1562, Gregory ordered a 1752, King Charles IX off'i-Gregorian Calendar still is those of Tlu' Obsenwr. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Nicole Zook Matt Puglisi 
OBSERVER POLL 
Amanda Michaels Mike Gilloon Mary Kate Kevin Brennan 

Submit aLetter
Malono Scene 
Were you impressed wilh Charlie Wcis Viewpoint KC Kenney al his donn visils'? Alyssa Illustrator 

to the Editor at
Brauweiler Graham Ebetsch Graphics 
'Poll appea111 counesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com 

and is based on 88 responses. ·· www.ndsmcobserver.com
Graham Ebetsch 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A fool thinks himselfto fJe wise, but a wise man knows himself to be a fool. '" 
William Shakespeare dramatic genius 

Friday, April 1, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

Stop Shoppingl 
monthly tuition board payments, ir cut and grab LaFortune 
ter! 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAl CREDIT UNION 
-Me>u c:iCUl liam' on us--1;,;, ,--+::'"-~e> ~s l,ale.n:-"~ ';::-;:-:, " 
021 LaFortune Student Center 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
of tha 

University of Notre Dame 
Invites Nominations 
for 
the Father Sheedy Award 

Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Hugh R. Page, Jr. Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 105 O'Shaughnessy-Hall 
Deadline Tuesday, 12 April2005 


Executive Board Dave Baron President Lizzi Shappell Vice-President Liz Kozlow Chief Executive Assistant Ste~re -Miller Director of Communications Vijay Rarrianan Academic Delegate 
Committee Chairmen Chris I-Iarris Academic Affairs Sarah Liu Diversit:v
. 

Allison \V'ishon Gender" Issues Sujal Pandya Oversight J\1ark Seiler Residence Life J\fatt Walsh Universitv Affairs 
J 

Nick Guzman Community Relations Rhea Boyd 1Enority Affairs 
ND 
continued from page 1 
ernment. 
"We are going to make a concentrated effort to dispel the belief that student gov­ernment is stuck in bureau­cracy and weighed down by an administration that does­n't care about students," Baron said. 
Baron also said the number of applicants for open student government positions had increased from last year's pool. All who applied were assigned to· a suitable position. 
"We read every unprecedented access to their offices on the 2nd floor of LaFortune student center, 
"In April, we'll start student government happy hour, which will take place Monday through Thursday from 5 to 6 pm," Kozlow said, "We will open student government offices for anyone who has suggestions, concerns, or frustrations." 
They hope to encourage better interaction between Notre Dame and the South Bend community, an initiative Mishawaka native Shappell has a personal stake in. 
"Lizzie is from Mishawaka. 
I didn't realize 
the extent of 
the Notre Dame 

application, con­bubble [before
"Adam showed me
ducted inter­now]," Kozlow views with each the importance of said. "A big applicant, and having strong part of our then assigned a campaign was
convictions and not
position to them to bridge the 
according to compromising on gap between their interests," them.,, Notre Dame and Kozlow said. South Bend. "Anyone who This is the first
Dave Baron 
wants to be time anyone has involved can be student body president taken on this 
involved." 
Baron's plans for a swift tran­sition will allow the adminis­tration to begin accomplish­ing its goals prior to the school year's end. 
The new administration has already created the "Catholic Think Tank," an initiative aimed at bringing prominent Catholics to campus. Baron said he hopes to find an inau­gural speaker for the project to visit campus in April. 
"We are going to try to get someone here by the end of the year," he said. "We are looking around for prominent speakers to kick off Catholic Think Tank." 
Baron and Shappell have also begun working on the cornerstone of their cam­paign's platform -communi­cation. Both said they will increase on all levels -from the dialogue between student government and student body to the dialogue between stu­dent government and the greater South Bend commu­nity. 
To ensure students know their voices are being heard, Baron, Shappell and Kozlow have decided to grant issue. The com­
munity has 
much to offer." 

In addition to these goals, Baron hopes to have printers, wireless access and cable tel­evision in the dorms by the time students return to cam­pus in the fall. 
Baron said his experience as chief assistant to former student body president Adam Istvan provided him with valuable insight into the most effective way to manage stu­dent government and reach the goals he has set out to accomplish. 
"I learned a lot from [Istvan and former vice president Carla Bell's] style of leader­ship," Baron said. ".Adam showed me the importance of having strong convictions and not always compromising on them." 
Though their platform was thorough and their promises are plentiful, one over-arch­ing theme defines it all, Baron said. 
"Our entire focus is to unite and mobilize 8,000 people," he said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Friday, April I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO WOMEN'S CREW 
Irish hoping to make a splash in Mission Bay 
By KYLE CASSILY  tho way to California. "In last year's heats or the  throughout their weekend-long San Diego odyssey.  they are going to look back at this race and use it to doter­ toams must deal with. Stone has his priorities  
Sports Wri1er  Jnssop-Whittior Cup !the top  "We're going to see the best  mine who should be in tho  straight in preparation for this  
women's trophy in the Classic]  crews  from  the  Championships,"  wnoknnd.  
Tho waters of Mission Bay in San J) iI\ go are tradition a II y  there were four of the sixteen teams that later were present  West. East Iandi South," Stone  "We're going to see  Stone said. This weekend's  "We are going to usn this weekend to spo whore we are  
rPsnrvnd for vacationnrs and tourists. This wt1nknnd. those same watnrs will play host to a dif­ in the NCAA Championships," coach Martin Stone said. While not the most meaning­ful of tho season's regattas, the  said. "There will be crows from Tennessee, Texas and Purdue."  the best crews from the West, East /and] South."  heats will diiTor from what most collegiate eight's are used to-the  at as a team," Stone said. "Wo'vo rnado some improve­ments over the past few wet~ks, along ~ith some lirwup  '  
f'nront kind of' gunst as thn Irish  Classic is cloarly one of the  Also competing  races will be held  changes.  
travol wnst to compote in tho :nrd San Dingo Crow Classic. This wooknnd. an Irish tnam  most popular and publicized. Past Classics have seen the dramatic entrance or Navy  will be Yale and many other teams from the East  Martin Stone Irish coach  in salt water. Salt water is known for its  The racecourse for tho Crow Classie will begin at. tlw quin­tossontial Soutlwrn California  
snoks to sncurn a rare win in  SEALs to kickoff' the races, and  coast.  increased buoy­ family water park. Sea World,  
t.hn inhospitablo domain of  it draws rowing enthusiasts  The  results  of  ancy in compari­ and  winds  its  way  to  tho  
southern Calif'ornia.  from across the country.  the  races are still critical to  son to fresh water.  entrance of' Mission Bay.  
Tho Crow Classic is sot to  Tho  women  seek to charge  each team's Sfmson though.  The  crew  shells will  ride  
host a  numlwr of elite teams  ahead of tho national competi­ "When the NCAA selection  noticeably higher in tho water,  Contact Kyle Cassity at  
this wnoknnd, from llarvard all  tion while remaining classy  committee makes their choices,  providing a  variablo that the  kcassily@nd.edu  

SMC GOLF 
Belles head to ColU111bus for Invite 
By ANNA FRICANO 
Sporrs Wri1er 
Tlw spring snason will kiek-olf f(lr the Saint Mary's golf team this wnnkond as the Belles travel to Capital University in Columbus, Ohio to compete in the Purple and While Invitational. Saint Mary's will begin its season with mueh the same expeetations it has had the past eouple of years. 
The Bnllns are looking to be selnctnd for the third year in a row for the NCAA competition, which will take place in early May. 
This wenknnd's evnnt is one of Jive that Saint Mary's will com­pete in throughout the month of April, and tho tnarn's primary goals are simple -play well nnough to qualify f(lr the tourna­nwnt and peak at tho right time. 
The outlook is definitely posi­tive for the Bolles. who have a rostm· composed almost entirely 
Ot\teo"eS ready for a cru"ktastic 
21st! 
ofjuniors and seniors. 
Coach Mark Hamilton is confi­dent in his playnrs' ability, espe­dally since the core of the team has been together for three years. 
"They know the ropes," Hamilton said. "They've played in some big tournaments... they have the experience that it takes." 
One thing that will not be on the Bnlles' side this weekend will be the weather. The team is play­ing on an unfamiliar course and has a history of giving a substan­dard porformance when the woathnr is less than decent -the forecast for Columbus, Ohio calls for rain. 
Hamilton looks at this invita­tional as an opportunity for the team to improve on its overall performance in bad conditions. 
"One of our focuses is on learn­ing to be better rnudders, to be able to perform better than everyone else when tho weather is poor," Hamilton said. 
Saint Mary's will certainly want to be at the top of its game this weekend. competing against some of the top programs in the region. 
The Purple and White Invite is in its fifth year and will play host to Ohio Athletic Conference champion Otterbein College, American Mideast Conference champion Walsh University and defending tournament champion Wilmington College. 
This is the first year that the Belles have taken part in the invi­tational, as it was a good fit in the schedule and, according to Hamilton, a good test to see what the ladies would need to improve on in the next month. 
The competition begins at 
10:30 a.m. with a shotgun start and will continue through Saturday. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Saint Mary's, Adrian ~chedule scrimmage 
By KATE SERYAK 
SportS Writer 

On Saturday, younger members of the Belles tennis team will travel to Adrian College in Michigan to scrimmage the Bulldogs. 
Although Adrian is usually an MIAA conference mem­ber, this year it laeked the sufficient interest in the pro­gram to field a team. Nevertheless, MIAA teams have scheduled scrimmages with the remaining members so that they still have a ehanee to play this yoar. 
The  Belles  are sending  
seven  girls, mainly fresh­ 
man.  

"All of them are really excited to play in their first college match," captain Miranda Mikulyuk said. "This is a chance to give tho regular players a break and allow the backup players to gain some valuabln nxpnri­ence/' 
The Belles' season has got­ten off to a slow start, with a match against Olivnt College having been rescheduled on two different occasions. Saint Mary's match against the University of Chicago is its only match of the regular season so far, aside from preseason matches played over spring break. 
"It's hard to say how our season is going because we've only had one match," Mikulyuk said. "But we had a really good doublns pnr­formancn at the University of Chicago match. "Dun to an injury, we had to switch the lineup, and we playPd with partrwrs that we hadn't really practicnd with at all. The fact that w.-pnrfornwd well in such a situation is awesonw, and I think that will dictate how our soason will go." 
Tho Belles arP looking for­ward to bnttnr wnatlwr in coming wonks so thoy can start eonsistnntly practicing outsidn. 
Tho cold weather has forcnd them inside to do conditioning training, and tlw team can't wait to linally hit tlw courts. 
Contact Kate Scryak at kseryak@nd.edu 
• First 2.50 fans receive a Notre Dame Lacrosse schedule glass, 

• First 150 fans receive a Notre Dame Lacrosse keychain lanyard, 
sponsored by Between the Buns and 

· sponsored by Stephenson Marketing Concepts 
Coke 


• l<rispy Kreme Doughnuts for early arriving fans 
• Between the Buns pre-game tail­


ile su lies las 
gating party for early arriving fans 

Visit W\"1'\<\'.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promotional informat\o
(while s ies last) 


I 
I 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, April 1, 2005 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Thompson twins, team welcome 49ers to Eck 
we're not taking any match The team will be looking to will be making a return to the Playing at No. 3 will be
Irish look to rebound 
lightly," sophomore Christian get off to a strong start by lineup after suffering a knee Lauren Connelly with Stastny,from disappointing Thompson said. "We're definite~ securing the doubles point. injury during the Sarah Jane ly looking at this ' Playing at BYU match in Connelly and Liz
'Tve been feeling 
loss to Wisconsin upcoming match No. 1 for the March. Donohue at Nos. 
more and more
as a way of Irish will be ''I'm just tak-· 4, 5 and 6.
"We have had several 

redeeming our­the No. 2 dou­ing it day by day comfortable on the "It has been
By DAN TAPETILLO 
close matches this 

selves." bles team of right . now," great having
Sports Writer court so hopefully it 
Notre Dame is season to tough Christian and Thompson said. Christian back in
won't be too much
looking to bounce Catrina "But I've been doubles because
teams, so we know we 

The No. 28 Irish (8-8) will back from a 4-3 Thompson. playing more longer [until I retun we know how 
can compete with the

compete against No. 67 Long loss to Wisconsin The No. 2 and feeling more the other one
to singles]."
Beach State (5-5) tomorrow in a · this week, its fifth best." team will b~ comfortable on plays," Catrina match that will leave the victor 4-3 loss this sea-junior Lauren the court so Thompso.n said. with an overall winning record. son. Connelly and hopefully it won't Christian Thompson · "It has also got­
Catrina Thompson 

Although Notre Dame has the "We have had freshman be too much Irish player ten me to appre­
Irish player

advantage of being ranked in several close Brook Buck, longer." ciate her pres­the top 30 as a team as well as matches this sea-feJllowed by With the loss of ence more. But on its home court, it is still son to tough teams, so we know the No. 3 team of junior Kiki Thompson, the lineup will most hopefully we can get her back anticipating a tough match at we can compete with the best," Stastny and senior captain likely remain with No. 44 in singles." 10 a.m. at the Eck Tennis sophomore Catrina Thompson Sarah Jane Connelly. Catrina Thompson playing at Pavilion. said. "It is just a matter of fin­In singles, it is questionable No. 1, followed by No. 100 Buck Contact Dan Tapetillo at 
"After losing to Wisconsin, ishing them." whether Christian Thompson at No.2.. jtapetil@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Streaking Irish journey south to battle SMU 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Edtior 
Good things come in threes, and wins are always good things. 
The No. 29 Irish look to extend their winning streak to three games on a road trip to Dallas this weekend as they take on the No. 41 Mustangs of Southern Methodist University. · 
"We're excited to go to Dallas," coach Bobby Bayliss said. "It's supposed to be 75 degrees and sunny." 
As weather improved in South Bend, the Irish got a taste of what they would find in Dallas on the Mustangs' outdoor courts. Although the Irish carry a more favorable ranking, SMU boasts a perennially competitive squad. 
"They're a dangerous team," Bayliss said. "They just lost a real close 5-2 match to Oklahoma State, who's No. 10. ... They had chances to really make it pretty darn competitive. I'm anticipating a tough match." 
Notre Dame and SMU are 2-2 in the four~year history of the series, which Bayliss started because 'the Big East does not require round-robin play in the conference. 
"The way the series has gone, we've won the two matches in South Bend and they've won the two in Dallas," he said. "Both were 4-3 matches, with the last match on the court [clinching the wins)." 
Bayliss anticipates a challeng­ing match in the Lone Star State this Sunday. 
"We want another close-hard fought match and they're pretty good," he said. "Their team is 
: ERASMus BooKs 
: • Used Books bought and sold 
1 • 
25 Categories of Books :. 25,000 Hardback and : Paperback books in stock : • Out-of-Print search service 
:. Appraisals large and small 
I I 
: OPEN noon to six :Tuesday through Sunday : 1027 E. Wayne
I : South Bend, IN 46617 : 232-8444
r 
I
I 
predominantly international 
players and most of them are 
returning from last year. I think 
five of the six starters are back." 
The Irish recovered from a dif­
ficult 6-1 loss to No. 2 Illinois on 
March 17 to win matches at 
Michigan and Purdue. The line­
up has seen a number of 
changes this season, as the top 
spot has been back and forth 
between sophomore Stephe·n 
Bass and senior co-captain Brent 
D'Amico. 
"He had the best fall of any­
one," Bayliss said of Bass. "We 
have the type of team where our 
guys are pretty close to each 
other in ability. There's not a 
great disparity ... Stephen had to 
play some outstanding players 
early in the season and took 
some losses, and I think his con­
fidence suffered a little bit." 
Bayliss moved D'Amico into 
the top position but saw little 
change in the overall results of 
the match. 
"Stephen immediately started 
winning at two, and Brent 
encountered some of the same 
problems Stephen had," Bayliss 
said. 
Although the lineups for this 
weekend are not set, Bass has 
occupied the No. 1 spot in the 
most recent matches. 
"We've had good solid results 
throughout our lineup all year, 
especially in singles," Bayliss 
said. 
The coach does not plan to 
change the doubles combina­
tions, although the lineup is 
always subject to change. . The Irish will face the 
Mustangs at 1 pm. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary's hopes to end streak 
By TOM STILES Sports Wrirer 

Saint Mary's (5-8) will look .to end its current five-game 
skid this weekend when it 
plays in the Trinity 
International Tournament. 
The tournament will likely 
serve as a good test for the 
Belles before they begin a 
string of games against MIAA 
rivals. 

Most recently, the Belles 
lost both ends of a double­
header to Manchester College 
by scores of 4-2 and 1-0 on 
March 17. Both games saw 
quality pitching performances 
squandered by poor fielding 
and weak hitting. 

In game one, junior Bridget 
Grall gave up two earned 
runs and nine hits -only one of which went for extra bases -but the Belles committed three errors and could muster only one run on offense. Game two saw fresh­man McKenna Corrigan pitch a two-hit gem, but the offense was shutout with three hits and the defense gave up another unearned run. 
The season has been a roller coaster ride for the Belles thus far, as the team won four straight earlier in the year only to drop the next five. 
The Belles have yet to put it all together, with the offense and the pitching rarely per­forming well in the same game. 
As of late, both the pitching and the hitting have strug­gled, as the Belles have been outscored 31-7 in the last five games. 

The Belles have been marred by inconsistent play, which can be expected of a young team. 
Mother Nature isn't cooper­ating either, as the Belles' last two home games have been postponed. Finding a rhythm has been difficult for Saint Mary's, as the tourna­ment will be the first action they have seen since March 17. 
Upon returning from the tourney, the Belles will begin a stretch of 19 games in 25 days before the MIAA Tournament in early May. The Belles will face Tri-State University on Monday and Albion College on Wednesday. 
Contact Tom Stiles at tstiles@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND RELIGIOUS VALUES IN BUSINESS 
& 

INSTITUTE FOR ETHICAL BUSINESS WORLDWIDE 
PROUDLY PRESENT 
Amy Domini Founder and CEO of Domini Social Investment, LLC who will be honored with the I Jesburgh Award for Business Ethics 
and 

Professor Robert Audi Gallo Chair in Business Ethics University of Notre Dame 
Speaking on 

uEthical Leadership and Leadership in Ethics" 
As. the 2005 Frank Cahill Lecture 
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 5:00 p.m. -6:30 p.m. 

[ 
L___ 
Friday, April I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S TRACK 
Irish reschedule, travel to Purdue 

Timing allows team to attend Friday classes 
By NATE DYER 
Sports Writt·r 

After sPtt.ing school and indi­vidual n~l'ords last wonk in California, the Notre Dame nwn 's track and field team will stay in-statP this weekend, as a largo eon t.i ngen t lwads to tlw Purdue. 
Though originally sdwdulnd to cornpPln in the Indiana Hdays on tlw campus of' tlw University of' Indiana, in Bloomingt(m, weath­nr eonn~rns and the timing of' the rnlays causml thn tnam to choose to comjwtn at l'urdun instead. 
The tnam lwads to West 
Lafityette, Ind. to compete in the Poehlein Invitational, named after former long-time Purdue coach Mike Poehloin. The non­scoring invitational meet was originally scheduled as a two­day meet for today and Saturday, but all events were moved to Saturday. 
Tlw meet will be another early opportunity for tho Irish athletes· to qualify for Big East and NCAA regional compntitions, but assis­tant coach Tim Connelly eau­tiorwd against peaking too soon. 
"Tho NCAA's are a long ways away," Connelly said. "You have to spread out the competition, and build up so that you peak fi1r tho NCM's." 
As a result of' already having qualif'ied for NCAA's and the large amount of' time before the NCM's, sophomore distance sen­sation Kurt Benninger will not be competing this weekend. 
Benninger shatternd the Notre Damn school record in the 5,000-meter race last weekend at the Stanford Invitational with a time of' 13:33.05, a full two sec­onds under the pmvious record. The performance was the third fastest in the world thus far. 
The majority of tlw team will be competing, however, as tho number of NCAA qualifiers looks to grow. 
Throwing events bogin at 9 
a.m. with tho women's hammer throw and running !Wonts begin­ning at noon with th!1 women's 5,000-meter run. 
Contact Nate Dyer at ndyer@nd.edu 
On CAmpus QrA-tuAtioo 'k!Jeekeo-t ~peeiAl LY!:}A!I 11-16/ 100f 
Need. ~ pL~ce for !:JOur fmt-t,L.Ltj to st~tj, Trtj ti-le s~cred. t-te~rt 'P~rL.sl-1 C.ell\.ter ['B-u£.Ld.£."""0 31. OY 1.1.g5 011\. tjOUY C~~pu.s ~~-ps.] 
we set ~ .f3o.oo -per -persoll\. d.oii\.CttL..oll\. for ti-le weeR.e!Mi. 
'"COMS SAR.LY [TV1ursd.~tj1 -STAY LAlli [Moll\.d.~tj]"-S~~ d.OII\.~tLOII\.. 
For reserv~HoV~-.s pLe~.se c~LL: 'P~ul sd.d.!:j ~t .sr-+-G.31.-.:T51.2 Ol" M~Y!:J Foll\.ferR.o ~t .5T-'f--G31.:J43G 


·;w;H+...:···..·.·· 
SUNDAY,APRIL 3, :lJIQS 
Lecture by Michael Kimmel~an~ chief~rt 
The NewYorkTimes 
The Accidental Masterpiece: On the Art of Life and ViceVersa. 
The lecture title is the same <lS that for his forth'comingbook and is his flrst lecture orimis topic. 
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC This lecture is pan: of the Annual MFA/BFA Exhibitlon opening reception from]*4:30pm. 
MEN'S GOLF 

Competitive field slated for invite 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 

Sinee Jim Kubinski t.ook over as head coach on Jan. 2S, tho Irish havn postml low seores and earnnd nxeP.ptional finish­es. 
This wnnkend, though, the tnam will f'acn its toughest test in the Augusta State Invitational, wher!1 l S of' the best squads in the country will square ofT in a mid-spring showdown. 
Ten of' the nation's top 25 teams will tne it up this wonk­end at Fornst Hills Golf Club in Augusta, <;a., including ·No. 4 Georgia, No. 6 Wakn Forest and No. 9 Duk!1. 
Notre Dame, entering the weekend at No. 62 in tlw Golfstat rankings, havn P.arned one win and two other top-five finishes in three tournaments this spring under the tutnlage ofthP-ir nP-w head coach. 
Hownvor, the team will be hard pressed to replicate the early-spring success thP.y have enjoyed against this field. 
Among the golfers in the fip,Jd for opposing teams arn thme of the top 15 individual golfers in the country -Hyan Blaum of Duke, Gm1rgia's Chris Kirk and Georgia Southern's Aaron Price. Blaum, Kirk and Price each have a searing average bolow 70. In comparison, Notre Dame's best scoring avP.rage belongs to Cole lsban, who is ranked 117 in th!1 country with a 71.71 average. 
According to the Invitational's official website, 31 of tho coun­try's top 100 individual golfers will be competing. lsban and his teammates will have to play their best if they want to stay competitive on Sunday. 
But history is not on Not.rn Darm~·s side. 
Last year, Minnnsota won tlw tournament going away. Tlw Golden Gophnrs outpaend Duke and UCLA by five and six strokes, rnspnctiwly. No otlwr tmun finish1~d within I 0 shots of' tiH~ winnn_rs. 
Tlw Irish ended last year's tournarnnnt in a tin for four­teenth with Georgia Soutlwrn and Toledo at S92 (+2Sl. That was thirty-one strokt~s behind Minnesota's winning scorP. This year, the team hopes to at lnasl. have a f'ighting chance come the final round. 
The competition is not the only factor that is working against the Irish, though. Tlw eourse, itself', also ofl'ers a sig­nificant challenge f'or Notre Damn. 
While the Irish's honw eoursP of' WarrP-n consists almost entirely of bent grass on tlw fairways and grmms, as is cus­tomary for northern courses, Forest II ills is l 00-percnnt B1wrnuda. 
Heading the grenns well on the different surf'aee will be' pivotal for tlw Irish, as tho 7 ,231-yard, par-72 course pun­ishes poor drivns with lengthy sncond shots to heavily con­tournd )..,treens. 
Tlw forecast f'or Saturday's initial 36 holns calls for douds and strong winds, which should bring scoms 'up fhnn their low levels last year. Sunday is set to be warm and sunny with a light brenze for the tournamnnt's final round. 
This is Notrn Damn's pnnulti­matn team tournanwnt befon~ hosting the Big 1\ast Championship Apr. 23-24. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Dept. ofIrish Language &Literature 
Roinn Theanga 7Litriocht na Gaeilge 

Fall 2005 Course Offerings IRLL 1010/lntroduction toMmlern Irish I IRLL 10102 Introduction toModern Irish II IRLL 201031ntermediate Irish Lan!(UU!(e IRLL 20105 lntrmluction to Old Irish IRLL 30107 The Hidden Ire/am/: Issues inlriJ-Cent.lrish Poetry IRLL 60303 Poetry and Politics inEar(v Modern lre/am/1541-1688 

Friday, April 1, 2005

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish set to welcome pair of Big East foes 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame may only have seven of 15 regular season con­tests under its belt, but for the Irish (2-5, 0-1 Big East), the must-win games are already beginning. 
After a 2004 campaign that saw the Irish drop just five con­tests all season -they finished 12-5 overall -the 2005 squad has already equaled last year's loss total in its first seven games. 
For the team to have any hope of making a run at the Big East title and qualifying for the NCAA tournament come May, it must begin to turn the tide. 
This weekend provides a per­fect opportunity 
Dominion, 9-8, in its most recent contest on Monday. 
The Irish take the field tonight after a heartbreaking 10-9 overtime loss to Big East rival Boston College on Saturday-Notre Dame lost by an identical score in overtime to Vanderbilt on March 9. 
Falling behind 6-2 at half­time, the Irish battled back to tie the game seven minutes, 4 7 seconds into the second half at six and then traded goals with the Eagles for the remainder of regulation. 
Although attack Crysti Foote was able to knot the score at nine with only 1:07 left on the clock and force overtime, it was 'he last time Notre Dame found the back of the net on the afternoon. 
Eagle Katherine Wagoner's 
unassisted tally 

when Notre 26 seconds into
"We lost two

Dame hosts a the extra period pair of confer­overtime games and proved to be the ence foes in one game by three difference. Connecticut (5-2, In the end,
goals, so our record

0-1 Big East) Coyne felt it
could easily be 5-2."

and Rutgers (3-wasn't dominat­4, 1-1 Big East). ing Eagle play, The Irish bat­Tracy Coyne but instead, tle the Huskies poor Irish exe-
Irish coach 

tonight at Moose Krause Field at 7 p.m. before facing the Scarlet Knights Sunday at noon. 
Notre Dame coach Tracy Coyne realizes the impact the next two games will have on the floundering 2005 season. 
"It's a huge [weekend]," Coyne said. "At this stage, every game is important, and we can't be overlooking any­one. We've only started Big East play, and this is a big weekend in the conference. 
"I think if we want to keep our hopes alive for wining our first conference championship and getting the automatic bid, we have to win this weekend." 
The Irish haven't had much trouble disposing of the Huskies in the past, taking five of the six all-time matchups between the teams, including a 14-8 victory last season. 
Connecticut enters this evening's game on the heels of a tough 13-12 loss to No. 15 Syracuse on Saturday. 
Historically, Notre Dame has had a little more trouble with Rutgers, though the Irish have still managed to win three of five all-time meetings. The Scarlet Knights were one of four teams to beat the Irish last year, picking up a hard-fought 7-6 victory in Piscataway, N.J. last April. 
Rutgers was edged by Old 
cution that dropped the team to 2-5 on the season. 
"It wasn't a situation where talent-wise we were over­matched and we had to play out of our heads," Coyne said. "I think it was more a case our lack of execution led to mis­takes and then Boston College was able to capitalize." 
According to Coyne, an inability to prepare for the fiercely competitive contest could also have contributed to the loss. 
"It's slightly a one-sided rivalry -[Boston College] had never beaten us, and they have some girls on their team that wanted to come to Notre Dame," Coyne said. "I thought we were prepared for it, but I just think that they came out with a lot more intensity." 
While Notre Dame certainly didn't expect the 2-5 mark that accompanies its name in the standings, the results this sea­son may not be as bad as the record might indicate. 
"We lost two overtime games and one game by three goals, so our record could easily be 5­2," Coyne said. "We're there­we're doing some things well, we're just not finishing the play." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 

'Pace' remains key for team 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Pace is a word that is used in track jargon constantly. Usually the term "pace" describes how fast someone is running in a race. 
But Irish coach Tim Connelly isn't concerned with this type of pace. Instead, his team's ability to pace itself throughout the season has been the coach's focus this week. 
Following one of the most suc­cessful weekends of the year for the women's track team-when it notched six NCAA qualifying times and proved itself to be competitive with top level teams -Connelly refused to let his team get ahead of itself. 
"We need to temper our enthu­siasm a bit," Connelly said. "Last weekend was simply a good starting point, a good first race. There's still two months until NCAA Regionals." 
In an effort to establish this 

theme, the Irish will take on less­
er competition this weekend but 
will send their entire team to the 
Poehlein Invitational tomorrow at 
Purdue. 
The team was originally sched­
uled to compete at Indiana University this weekend but chose instead to go to Purdue. The meet in West Lafayette, Ind. · held on Saturday will allow ath­
letes to attend Friday classes. 
The Purdue meet will give ath­
letes who have not yet participat­
ed in an outdoor meet the oppor­
tunity to compete in the ele­
ments. 
"You have to look at the condi­
tions when you run outside," 
Connelly said. "So many times 
performances can be dictated by 
the elements. We have to get 
used to these conditions. 
Saturday provides us with anoth­
er race in which to do this." 
Connelly also said some of his 
top distance runners will be com­
peting in shorter events such as 
the 1,500-meter to help pace 
some of the less experienced run­ners. This will allow the distance 
team to get some rest after last 
weekend while helping team­.mates in the process. 
With the outdoor season still in 
its early stages, the Irish's goal is 
to gain racing experience. 
Technique and strategy were 
strong points of Notre Dame's 
performance last weekend, and 
Connelly will be stressing those 
areas again this weekend. 
"We raced very well last week­
end," Connelly said. "We were 
patient and waited for our oppor­
tunities. That was our biggest 
accomplishment last weekend, 
and it was much more important 
than just burning ourselves out 
like in a time trial. Smart racing 
is the ultimate goal." 
Louisville, Indianapolis, Illinois­
Chicago, Chicago State, 
Marquette, Loyola Chicago and 
Purdue are among the schools 
expected io compete against the 
Irish this weekend. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Squad returns to action in· Indiana 
Cold climate expected to present problems 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Three weeks after its victory in the St. Croix Collegiate Invitational in the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Notre Dame women's golf team returns to action this weekend. in a much cooler cli­mate in Bloomington, Ind., home of the Indiana Invitational. 
The competition will mark the first northern tournament for the Irish since the weather last per­mitted for outdoor competition in early October, when the team participated in the Shoot Out at the Legends in Franklin, Ind. 
Junior Suzie Hayes said the three-week layoff is common at this point in the season. 
"[Spring break] is a great time to get practice in the heat and the sun, but then we usually have a break because of the weather," she said. "The next three tourna­ments are up north." 

The Irish did their best to stay sharp during the off weeks, tak­ing a trip to Rochester, Ind.·last weekend to practice away from the Warren and Notre Dame golf courses. 
"We've been working hard on our games," Hayes said. "We've been outside most of the last three weeks." 
Taking to the links for the Irish will be sophomores Stacy Brown and Noriko Nakazaki, juniors Katie Brophy, Sarah Bassett and Hayes and senior Karen Lotta. 
Brophy leads the team with a 
75.83 stroke average but shot a 7 5-82-79 in three rounds at St. Croix. Brown paced the Irish in the VIrgin Islands with 75-79-74 scores. 
The Irish are a combined 23-0 against opponents they will face in Bloomington. 
Notre· Dame is currently ranked No. 45 by golfstat.com. Challenging the Irish will be No. 70 Wisconsin, No. 84 Minnesota and No. 99 Iowa, among 14 other teams. 
Rounding out the field will be Indiana, Arkansas-Little Rock, Ball State, Bowling Green, Eastern Michigan, Ferris State, Grand Valley, Illinois, Indianapolis, Iowa, IPFW, Marshall, Minnesota, Ohio, St. John's, Toledo, Wisconsin and Xavier. 
The Hoosiers will also enter six individual competitors who will not count toward the team's score. 
Despite the mediocre competi­tion, Hayes said the team is not overconfident. 
"We know we want to win, but we're not going out there saying 'oh, this is an easy tournament,"' she said. "We just want to play well and lower our scoring aver­ages." 
The forecast for Saturday is sunny and 45 degrees, much cooler than St. Croix but dry and playable. 
"We're used to the conditions," Hayes said. "This tournament always seems to have cold weather. It won't affect us too much." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
® 

'--····----.. -.........-......-.....--'.. . 

Before you buy a diamond, call us for a free quote, you will be glad you did. 
John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 

Jewelers Gemologist, G.G., F.G.A. I Mineralogist, M.A _ Goldsmiths I Platinumsmiths 
Telephone: 287-1427 Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
Key Bank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 

Herels to the hottest blonde roommate ever, for all of the stories about innocent townies, parked cars, beat box champs, and stumbling in public. This semester just would nit be the same without you. 
Happy Birthday, Riko! 
Love, your illegal roomies. 

--~-----­
Friday, April I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
in May. "Scoring is part of it, but
Lacrosse
Want to write snorts?c;fJ Call Mike at {~543.~r;:~~:~~;@~~~~  
.t) < X. >; H-~+Mri£!1~~iD,,,~~ ..­Lafayette SquareJlliWIIIf~liBS LAST CHANCE!!! Only 5-bedroom Townhomes Remain! "Best 5Private Bedrooms-SPLIT the Rent! Value Per 3Floors of Living Space+ Patio Area Student" Over 1,800 Square Feet Central Air I Cable Hook-Up Stove, Fridge, Dishwasher Washer I Dryer in EACH unit Close to Campus........................... L ................ . ADT Monitoring SystemsVisit our website at 24-hour Emergency Maintenancewww.REMCI.com There are also 2bedroom apartments available at Notre Dame Apartments.  
The Spring Run A Benefit for .. Rebuilding Together with Christmas in April" ,16 101CIUNI PLUS 2 MILl WALl Saturday, April 2, 2005 -11:00 A.M. Race will begin at Legends Opens at 10:00 A.M. Refreshments & T -Shirts to all Finishers Register in Advance at RecSports $6.00 In Advance or $10.00 Day ofRace Advance Registration Begins 3/21, Ends@ 5:00p.m. 4/1 Student and Staff Divisions  

continued from page 24 
with him like Matt Karwcck and Brian Morrison, who's done a great job scoring goals for us. 
"I Karweck and WalshI are good friends and have worked really hard together the last couple of years. It didn't surprise me that they have been playing so well together." 
Co·rrigan believes tho Irish can still make strides as they enter the last month of rogu­lar season competition before the NCAA tournament starts making good deeisions and taking care of the ball is also part ol' it," Corrigan said. "I think we've done a good job of making plays. but I think we can still make a lot of progress in our dm~ision mak­ing ol'fensively." 
Saturday's game will be the fourth all-timo matehup between Notre Dame and Dartmouth. 
The Irish won last season's meeting in South Bend, Ind., 10-3. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
appeared to have sealed the victory, but a controversial call on a play at first base kept the game going. The Irish lost in an epic 19-inning battle. 
"We've got a little bit of a sour taste in our mouths from that game because we thought we won the game," Mainieri said. "The game should have been over. We were running ofl' the field to celebrate, and the umpire made a call that we thought was wrong. 
"When our first baseman went baek to argue the call, the runner ran home from third to tie the game. It cost us the reg­ular season ehampionship." 
Junior Cody Hizzo is one of six players on the current Irish roster who was involved in the 5-3 loss two seasons ago that lasted almost live hours. Hizzo remembers it well and is excit­ed to face such a quality oppo­nent this weekend. 
"It's going to be a test," Hizzo said. "We've sort of started to turn the season around a little bit, and this is going to show us how we're doing. 
"It's a rivalry every year. To go out there and have their fans cheering against us gets you going every game." 
Hutgers is coming off an 11-2 home-opener victory over Hider. First baseman/outfielder Hyan Hill leads the Scarlet Knights with a .393 batting average in only 28 at-bats. The top every-day hitters for the Knights are infielder Cory Hodriguez (.369, 84 at-bats), outfielder Johnny Defcndis (.351. 97 at-bats) and first basmnan Hich Canuso (.323, 65 at-bats). Infielder Todd Frazier has six home runs. 
The Knights have already knocked o!T No. 3 Georgia Tech and swept Big Ten power Minnesota this season. 
Irish freshman second base­man Brett Lilley continues to pace the Notre Dame offense with a .384 batting average. Senior first/third baseman Matt Edwards has blasted his way to 
a .382 average after a solid midweek game against Western Michigan in which he homered three times over the le'ft field fence. llis home run total is nine through 23 games. 
Though this weekend's series takes place early in the confer­ence schedule, the two peren­nial conference title contenders are tied atop the Big East standings at 3-1. Mainieri rec­ognizes the importance of the series. 
"I think they're very impor­tant games, very critical games beeause if you want to beat teams out for the champi­onship, you better boat them head to head." he said. "Tlwy're eritieal becausn you know that they'rn IHutgnrsl going to be a main eontnndnr for the I Big East I champi­onship." 
.I u n ior lefty Tom Thornton will try to earn his third win of the season in Saturday's SIWnn­inning gamn onn. With a 2-:~ record, Thornton-leads tho team with 33.2 innings pitched and is seeond on the team with 17 strikeouts. 
The game two starting pitch­er for the Irish will be either sophomore Jeff Manship or sophomore ()erik Olvey, deper~ding on the weather. Manship, still easing his way into the rotation after elbow surgery, will throw two innings unless the weather is eold, Otherwisn, Olvey will got thn nod. 
Two-sport standout .Jeff Samardzija will pitch ganH~ three of the series. With a 3-0 reeord, Samardzija should be an imposing third ganw pitch­er. lie will fly to Newark Airport on Saturday night after an al'ternoon football practice. 
Since 19<JR, thn Irish itnd the Knights have dominated the Big East, appearing in 12 NCM tournaments, winning 5 Big East tournaninnt champi­onships and seven Big East regular season championships combined. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
..---~----------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 1, 2005 
Season 
continued from page 24 
and earned first team All-Big East for Notre Dame this sea­son. 
"That is so important to have a good leader, you can't win without a leader," McGraw said. "I think Megan's going to run the team like she did this year, and she's improved every year." 
Duffy will be joined in the backcourt by defensive stopper Breona Gray, who had a solid sophomore season, and fresh-. man Tulyah Gaines, who gained valuable experience in a back­up role this season. 
"Tulyah really came on at the end of the year," McGraw said. Borton's inside presence will 
be filled by another freshman, Melissa D'Amico. The 6-foot-5 forward/center saw limited action this season, but McGraw thinks she will be a big contrib­utor next season, playing in the post next to returning starter junior Courtney LaVere and sophomore Crystal Erwin. 
"[D'Amico] is going to be a dominating presence in the lane for us on both ends of the floor," McGraw said. "I think that she is talented, she works hard, and I really feel like she is going to play a major role for us inside. Not so much in scoring, but just in contributing." 
And even with these three freshmen seeing increased roles next year, Notre Dame will get even younger with two top recruits coming in: McDonald's All-American Lindsay Schrader and honorable mention All­American Chandrica Smith. 
Schrader will join the Irish out of Bartlett, Ill. The 2005 Illinois Ms. Basketball is a pure scorer, averaging 22.1 points per game her senior year. 
"She's someone who can shoot the ball, score from the perimeter, rebound-she's got a lot of strengths on offense," McGraw said of Schrader, who scored nine points in the All­American game Wednesday night at the Joyce Center. 
Smith will bring an athletic presence to the Irish. 
"Chandrica is a great defend­er who can rebound, which was a huge weakness we had this year,".McGraw said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 



The Notre Dame defense wraps up a Stanford player during last October's game. Next year's defense will have to replace two starting linebackers. 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
returning Irish linebackers with sizable game experience. They will need to fill holes left by the departure of Mike Goolsby and Derek Curry and also adapt to the terminology used by new Notre Dame defensive coordinator Rick Minter. 
"There is some different lingo here and there, but there's a lot of carryover in everything we do," Mays said. "There will be a little change, but just like class, you have to study and get everything down. If you just spend 15 to 20 minutes of dedication every day, you can get things down pat." 
Despite the inexperience of this year's linebacking corps, there is plenty of talent to compensate. 

Juniors Mitchell Thomas, Joe Brockington and Nick Borseti return and will compete for a spot in the 4-3 set. Sophomores Abdel Banda and Maurice Crum, Jr. are expected to push the veter­ans. 
Chinedum Ndukwe, who logged minutes at safety as a sophomore last year, will play a hybrid posi­tion, mixing duties of a safety and linebacker. 
"I don't think it's anything ingenious," Minter said. "I think the best thing for us to do right now is to play with [Ndukwe] on the field as a 'nickel-backer' type guy." 
According to Minter, Hoyte and Mays are the frontrunners for number-one spots, along with Ndukwe, but no one is assured of anythingjustyet. 
"Right now we're just compet­ing for spots and not locked in too much," Minter said Wednesday after Notre Dame's second spring practice. "But when the dust set­tles I'd like to see [Mays] at [mid­dle] linebacker. He's that proto­typical, big, thick-bodied guy that plays in the middle, and then I'll put Hoyte on the flank some­where." 
Despite his coach's confidence in his ability to contribute this season, Hoyte is taking nothing for granted. 
"It's really simple," Hoyte said. "I need to prove myself. Some people would say as a fifth-year. linebacker that's already been done, but I don't think so. I don't think I've played up to the possi­bilities I'm capable of, so in my viewpoint, I'm no different than a freshman." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

Friday, April l, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
E
HABITUAL LIAR 

~ ~--------------------------~0.. 
ARE YOU STICKING WITH YOUR STORY THAT YOU'RE STILL 

ALIVE? 
) 
I FEEL ,.------TERRIFIC! 

~------~----------------~ 
PEANUTS 
t::~----"--,.,~~"'\ 
~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 


1'1'"\ A GENIE IN A BOTTLE! MAKE A WISH! 

@) 
~ ~ 
~ 

g
0 
I'M RUNNING A MARATHON LATER TODAY. 
LOW PRICED CREMATIONS WHILE YOU WAIT! 
~ 
r1 
~ 
~ 
1ii 
i5 
ti
! 
~ ~ ~ 
cil 
JUMBLE 
.... 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DYPUG
I 
1 
rJ 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
IGf~flxJ 
LAMTEL 
I I I txJ
www.jumble.com 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: VIGIL 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 


WHE:N THE:Y SE:T­TL-g) THE:II< OIS­AGI<E:E:ME:NT OIE:I< A NE:W Bg), THe:¥--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 


LYING CORPSE THWART Answer: What a 7-foot center can be to a basketball team-"PIVOT-AL" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 40 French site of Roman ruins
Rural strip 41 Result of a
9 Recharging volcanicone's batteries, eruption,so to speak 
maybe 15 Veto 
44 U.S. Army 16 Filler of many training center shoes in Va. 
17 Shut up 45 It winds up 18 Paying guest 
55 Commune near Perugia

19 They're far from any port 
56 Got hot, then 21 Mount with 
cooled off spirit 
57 Like some 22 Some techies radio shows 
32 Away 58 Monk's activity 
33 Prevaricate 59 War movie setting
34 Just for fun 60 Song holder
37 Like many a resort 
38 How some DOWN 
things are available 1 Points 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

2 Memorable hurricane of 2004 
3 Solemn stretch 
4 "Thomas and Sally" composer 
5 Backwoods relative 
6 Penchant for taking off? 
7 "Old Deuteronomy" writer and family 
a Conference site 
9 Wartime dispatch carrier 
10 Big city problem 
11 First of a string of 13 
12 Sailor's saint 
13 Fairyland 
14 Course guides? 
20 Quebec's Levesque and others 
22 Paparazzo sort 
23 Department of central France 
24 German town 
25 Home subcontractor 
26 As a friend, to 
Fran~ois 
27 Plain of the Southwest 
28 First name in Mideast politics 
WILLSHORTZ 

29 Snail trail  42 "I Love a  48 Lunar trench  
30 They roll in  Mystery" actress Lund  49 Indian's home  
31 Biblical view  43 Bluffs  50 Vintage vehicles  
35 Disposing of at a church fair, maybe  45 Some egg containers  51 Knobstick 52 Settled down  
36 Leg warmers, e.g.  46 E.T.S. offering 47 Cuba, por  53 Cast  
39 Triangular  ejemplo  54 Beat slightly  

For answers, call 1-900-420-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Pavel Bure, 34: Ewan McGregor. 34: 
..

Rhea Perlman, 57: Hcrh Alpert. 70 Happy Birthday: Take a clear.shot at what"you want to accomplish this year. 
There will he no time to procrastinate, so don't let anyone slow you down or stand in your way. Allowing someone else to answer fnr you or do a joh you should he doing yourself will end in loss. Being a major player and a participant will be required. Your numbers arc II. 19, 28, 34, 37. 46 ARIES (March 21-April 19}: If you arcn'ttravcling physically today, you will he mentally. Your mind will he in overdrive, and you should be· ahlc to achieve prelly much anything you set your mind to. This will he a great day for physical 
activities, self-improvement, dealing with youngsters, socialit.ing and romance. 
***'** 
I 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20}: Make some changes to your personal papers that will free up some cash. Invest in yourself, your home or something that will help 
-

you make even larger financial gains. Don't trust others to do what you-should 
do yourself. *** 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Stand up and he heard, and you will make a lasting impression on someone who can help you in the future. Partnerships can turn into a lucrative affair. Romance will develop with someone you least expect.*** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Everything will depend on how well you get 
along with the people you have to deal with today. Compromise may be reyuired. Don't stille your chances because you arc afraid to participate. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): There is no time to waste. Set your sights on what you 
want and go after it wholeheartedly. Advancement will he yours if you have done 
your homework and prepared for this day. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Double-check everything you do before you move 
along. A yuick change could make all the difference in the end result. Avoid 
conllicts regarding personal mailers. ** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can count on friends and family to lend a helping 
hand. Introductions will he made to individuals interested in the same thing you 
are. Relationships will develop, and a good arrangement can be made between 
you and someone who can influence your future in a positive manner. **** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Work should he your prime concern. Don't let 
anyone hold you hack or stille your dreams and aspirations. Your talent is obvious, 
so present what you can do. *** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Love is in the picture for you today. You 
can make some minor adjustments to the way you look, and you will he pleased 
with the results. Someone will be impressed with your ability to come up with 
viable solutions. *** ­
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): No maller how hard you try today, something 
will be slowing you down. Work by yourself to avoid being sidetmcked or talked 
into taking on responsibilities you don't have time for. Be stem and prepared to 
say no.*** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have everything going for you, so stop 
second guessing yourself. You will have some unique concepts that will interest 
someone who interests you. Love is in a high cycle so rekindle the flame or lind 
someone who lights your tire. **** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your changeable mood may frighten some people 
off today, but for those who arc as unique and adventuresome as you, it's just the 
beginning of a fabulous relationship. Creative endeavors can lead to a prosperous 
venture. *** 

Birthday Baby: You arc extremely channing and debonair. You put yourself on 
the line and are always willing to help out. You are imaginative, artistic and an 
adventurer. 

Eugenia's Web sires: asrmadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through PTiday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _____________ State _____ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 

,.I 
PORTS
Friday, April 1, 2005 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

McGraw, players reflect on season 
Tournament upset brought campaign to sudden conclusion 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

The women's college basket­ball season concludes this weekend in Indianapolis, but the Irish will be watching on their television sets. After their season started with high hopes of Notre Dame's first Final Four since the 2001 national champi­onship, the Irish were upset by fifth-seeded Arizona State 70­61 on March 21 in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
"We met and watched the film and really I wanted them to take the pain with them," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I wanted them to remember the pain they felt in the locker room after the game and not to ever want to go through that again. It's all a mindset, it's an attitude that you have to have, and we just didn't seem to have it in the beginning of the second half of that game." 
The Irish finished the season 27-6, the third most victories in school history, won the presea­son WNIT tournament and fin­ished second in the Big East conference. 
They return three starters next season. But next year's 
team will have the tough task of replacing graduating seniors Jacquelinf,l Batteast, a third team Associated Press All­American, who led the Irish in scoring with 16.9 points per game, and Teresa Borton, who never missed a game in her four years. 
"It's really going to be hard to replace them because they scored and rebounded," McGraw said. "Jackie, we want­ed her to have the ball in every clutch situation, so we're going to have somebody else to do that." 
First in line was freshman Charel Allen, named to the Big East all-freshman team this season. However, Allen suffered a torn ACL and MCL in her left knee and will have surgery in about a month once the MCL heals, McGraw said. Allen is expected to return for practice in October. 
"She should be ready for practice," McGraw said. "We don't expect her to be 100 per­cent, but she'll be cleared to play. 
"Cham! was going to step up and maybe be our go-to scorer next year, even as a sopho­more." 
While Allen should give the Irish a scorer, junior point guard Megan Duffy will return as the team's leader and heart and soul. The gutsy guard was named honorable mention Associated Press All-American 
see SEASON/page 22 


BASEBALL 
Tean1 takes road trip to Rutgers 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
If the Irish baseball team seems bitter this week, it's because they're focused. If they seem a bit jumpy in classes, it's because they've got something else on their minds. 
Notre Dame (13-10)-win­ner of four straight -takes on longtime Big East rival Hutgers (13-9) in a noon doubleheader Saturday and a single game at noon Sunday in conference action at Rutgers' Class of '53 Baseball Complex. 
"It's hard for me to even say the name Hutgers," coach Paul Mainieri said. "When it's the week that you play Hutgers, there's a little extra bounce in the step, a little extra fire in the heart to go play," 
The last time Notre Dame traveled to Piscataway, N.J. to face the Scarlet Knights-dur­ing the 2003 season -the Irish dropped the final two games of the three-game series, drop­ping behind the Knights for first place in the Big East and ending any hope of contending for the top seed in the Big East tournament. 
In the final game, the Irish 
see RUTGERS/page 21 
FOOTBALL 
Mays, Hoyte lead defense 


-
Senior linebacker Brandon Hoyte tackles Navy Quarterback 
Aaron Polanco October 16. Hoyte will be the only returning 
starter at linebacker for the Irish next fall. 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Corey Mays turns heads when he walks into a room. His thick, bouncy, dread­locked hair tends to stand out. But entering his last season in an Irish uniform, the senior linebacker hopes to attract attention from his play alone. 
''I'm trying to do more this year with action," Mays said. "Because I believe peo­ple believe in someone who's doing more action rather than just talking. Really, I'm trying to combine talking and action to get the guys emotionally charged during practice." 
Mays and fellow senior Brandon Hoyte are the only 
see DEFENSE/page 22 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish travel to take on high scoring Big Green 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 

Notre Dame has already played three Inside Lacrosse top 20 teams this season, but its most difficult test might come Saturday when the No. 6 Irish travel to Hanover, N.H. to take on No. 17 Dartmouth. 
The latest NCAA statistics rank Notre Dame first in the nation in scoring with 12.8 goals per game. But Dartmouth has the 12th-ranked scoring defense in the nation, and Irish coach Kevin Corrigan expe~ts a stiff challenge. 
"Defensively, they're very ath­letic and very aggressive," Corrigan said. "When you look at their scores on the year, they've done a really nice job. 
They haven't given up the shots they don't want to give up because they have an excellent goalie Lin Ivy League player of the week Andrew Goldstein]. 
"Offensively, they've got some very good players. They don't have the depth that some peo­ple have, but the guys that they have in the midfield and attack are very good players." 
That defense will be tested by the quick-striking Notre Dame offen~e. Junior attack Pat Walsh leads the Irish with 14 goals and 17 assists. 
"Pat is an outstanding play­er," Corrigan said. "I give him all the credit this year. He's played extremely well. But I think a lot of credit has to go to the guys that are playing 
see LACROSSE/page 21 


WOMEN'S TENNIS 
MEN'S TRACK 
MEN'S TENNIS 

SMC GOLF
WOMEN'S CREW 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Poehlein 
Notre Dame at 

San Diego Crew 
UConnjRutgers
Lo~ Beach State 

Purf.le and White
Invitational

---~ 
at otre Dame 
SMU 

Classic 
lnvi ational 
at Notre Dame

a:~ 
Saturday, 9 am
Friday, 10 am 
Sunday, 1 pm 

Saturday-Sunday 
Saturday, 10:30 am 
Frid~ 7 pm;
Postponed meet to be
Thompson twins wei-
Irish hope to extend 

Notre Dame slated to 
Belles travel to 
Sun ay noon 
made up this weekend
come 49ers to Eck 
win streak to three 

compete in San Diego's 
Columbus for Capitol 
Irish host two top Big
at Purdue. 

== Tennis Pavillion 
against Mustangs 

Mission Bay. 
College tourney. 
East foes. 

A-te 
page 19
page 18 
page 18 
page 17 

page 17 
page 20

en 




