
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 43 FRIDAY, OCTOBER28, 2005 
ND in talks to hire ex-governor 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
Th11 Notre Dame department of political sci'ence is currently in talks to add former gover­nor of Indiana .I o s n p h Knrnan to its faculty. 
Kernan, a 11H1S gradu­atn of Notre Damn. has nxpressed int11r11st in teaching a singl11-eredit gulwrnatorial l11adorship elass at thr. 

University, political science professor John Hoos said Wednesday. 
"Ex-governor Kernan loves his alma mater and has an extraordinary knowledge in politics and government," Roos said. "He's dealt with billion dollar budgets, capital punish­ment crime cases [and) prop­erty taxes. He has a range of experience about politics that would be of use to students." 
Kernan served as mayor of South Bend from 1987 to 1996. lie was South Bend's longest-serving mayor when he resigned to become lieu­tenant governor under Frank ()'Bannon in 1996. When ()'Bannon suffered a massive 
stroke in 2003, Kernan assumed command as Indiana's 48th governor. 
Kernan -who resides in South Bend -left his post as governor on Jan. 10 after Republican Mitch Daniels defeated him in the 2004 gubernatorial election. 
Roos said Kernan's class could be available as soon as spring 2006. The course would likely be small and focus on different dimensions of state politics, Roos said. Kernan would use his experience in politics to shape parts of the class around major issues he faced while serving in the pub­lic sector. 
"llealthcare, budgets, wel­
fare, transportation, capital punishment," Roos said. "He would draw upon his experi­ences in the statehouse and take students through the actual Indiana budget, for example, to show the politics of putting a budget together." 
In addition to teaching the course, Kernan would give talks periodically and serve as an advisor for students inter­ested in public affairs. 
"l-Ie loves South Bend, he loves Notre Dame," Roos said. "He loves to work with young people and he would be a ter­rific asset if we could get him." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Tours reveal beauty, character of catnpus 
Student guides play crucial role in introducing the University to prospects and their fantilies 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
For some Notrn Dame appli­cants, it's the storied tradition, vivacious dorm life or infectious school spirit that sparks their intnrnst in tho Univnrsity -but for prospective student Kate llarris it was a campus tour that solidifind her decision to apply. 
"You could kind of tell [the tour[ was focusnd on academics hut it wasn't nazy focused ­1wople had fun," she said. 
Notre Damn students lead tours snvnral times a week, leav­ing from thn Main Building and nmharking on a journey across onn of tho nation's most storied college campusns to show and dnscribn to prospnctive students tho eharactnr of the University. 
Approximatnly 75 Notre Dame studonL'i work as tour guides for 
see TOURS/page 4 
Forum assesses future of Big Easy 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
Faculty experts in law, archi­tecture and engineering united to sham their views on the need to rebuild New Orleans and to discuss nr.cessary details ­regarding design, planning, land usc and environmental law -in a forum at the Law School Thursday. 
Law $chool Assistant l'rofnssor Amy Barrett noted that while most Americans think of New Orleans as a unique city, it has qualities that arn even more important than thn music and food for which it is fanwd. 
New Orleans differs from 
see KATRINA/page 9 

Observer 
Law School Assistant Professor Amy Barrett describes the unique contributions of New Orleans at a rebuilding forum Thursday. 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Basketball promotion criticized 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associate News Editor 
In years past, students awoke in the wee hours of a cold October morning to lin!~ up outside the Joyce ((mter with one goal in mind -to leave with basketball season ticket booklets in hand just as the sun was coming up. 
But this year, due largely to complaints about the system and low student attendance at games, organizers decided to alter their method of ticket distribution. 
"I think they had a great idea with the whole 'get everyone out and pumped for the basketball season' thing, but I think maybe if they had advertised it a little bit earli­er or made it a little more exciting it would have gone better," junior Brigid Bulfin said. 
Bulf'in was referring to "Late Night with the Legion," the event held Wednnsday at the .Joyce Centnr from 10 
p.m. to 12 a.m. where stu­dents obtained a redeemable ticket voucher to bn exchanged for a ticket book­let -but only after pieking up a bracelet upon entering the JACC and waiting for two hours to receive the voucher. 
"It seemed somewhat unor­ganized as we tried to get into the .JACC to get the b r a c e Ie t s , " j u n i o r H .. 1 . Kornhaas said. "Then there was a mad rush when pnople realizr.d they could leave to get the vouchers at the end." 
Bulf'in, who is picking up her tickets today, .said that 
see TICKETS/page 8 

Religious leadership weighs modem faith 
By JANICE FLYNN News Writer 
American Muslim, Jewish and Christian leaders empha­sized that both understanding the narrative that originates "the other" and rejecting unilat­eral action are crucial to suc­cess in the Middle East, in a panel discussion on interreli­gious leadership in the Holy Land Wednesday. 
"When Faiths Unite" kept with the spirit of the academic forum of faith in the modern world and featured three lead­ers from the National Interreligious Leadership Initiative for Peace in the Middle East. 
The initiative -formed in 2003 -includes 38 American religious leaders who endorse the current "road map" solution to the Middle East conflict and encourage the current U.S. administration to engage in crn­ative, consistent leadership. 
Gerard Powers, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute !'or International Peace Studies, served as discussion moderator and praised the spr.akers for their "real courage" in eollaborating over the divisive conflict. lie urgnd speakers to explain the con­tlict's relevance from their par-
see FAITH/page 9 

Friday, October 28, 2005 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Tilne for horror flicks 
I never really need an excuse to watch horror movies. However, in the extremely unlikely event that you aren't exactly like me, get your­self together and realize that Halloween is here, and you 
Joe Piarulli 
must honor it by watching things 

News
die while eating popcorn. Production 
I've sat through Editor countless hours of horror movies, and since this is almost the season to be jolly and give presents, I've decided to lend my professional advice about what to watch on this candy-filled day ofjoy. 
The modern classics: "The Exorcist" (still the best), "Alien" (makes me not want to go into outer space), "Hellraiser" (this one's gory), "The Shining" (Jack Nicholson's per­formance still outshines the compe­tition), "A Nightmare on Elm Street" (Johnny Depp's first film role), "Friday the 13th" (there are now ten sequels), "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" (this has three unpubli­cized sequels, not including the recent remake), "Poltergeist", "Halloween", "The Evil Dead" ("Spiderman" director Sam Raimi's first feature), "Child's Play" (the first few films in this series make "Seed of Chucky" look even worse than it is), "Silence of the Lambs" (winner of five Academy Awards), "Misery' (based off Stephen King's novel), "The Thing" (starring Kurt Russell) and "Se7en." 
The best horror movies you proba­bly haven't seen: "Session 9" (as creepy as it is complicated), "The Exorcist III" (the little-known sequel thai deserves more attention than it bas ever received), "Apt Pupil" (based off a Stephen King short story), "The l:litcher" (the movie that helped end hitchhiking), "The Ugly" (made in England), "Ginger Snaps" (a Canadian werewolf film), "The Serpent and the Rainbow" (from famous horror director Wes Craven) and "Event Horizon." 
Worth seeing if you haven't yet: "American Psycho" (amazingly, the book is even more disturbing than the movie), "They Live" (more of an action movie really), "Children of the Corn" (I always knew that little kids were up to something), "From Dusk Till Dawn" (Harvey Keitel, Quentin Tarantino, George Clooney and lots of vampires), "Cronos" (a Mexican vampire film), "Donnie Darko," "Candyman," "Joy Ride" and "Red Dragon." 
The most bizarre movies you'll ever see: "Rabid Grannies" (yes, this is an actual movie -but good luck finding it somewhere), "The Last House on the Left" Gust disturbing), "Battle Royale" (literally a massive battle to the death), "Luther the Geek", "Ghoulies," "Motel Hell" and "Bubba Ho-Tep" (Elvis Presley in a retirement home fighting a mummy). 
Well, that should be enough for quite a few Halloweens. Some are good, some are bad and some are ugly, but hey -that's what Halloween is all about. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd. edu 
The views expressed in ·the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily thpse of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DO YOU THINK SHOULD HAVE A STATUE ON CAMPUS? 




Kevin O'Boyle  David Balfanz  Maggie Manning  
senior off-campus  senior offcampus  senior off-campus  
"Bill Braschy. ,,  "Tyrone Willingha_m. ,,  "Randy Waldrum.··  





Michael Angulo  James Miller-Marquez  Patrick Donnelly  
freshman Alumni  sophomore St. Ed's  junior Keough  
"Ron Talley. ,,  ,,"Pat Donnelly.  "Vladimir  

Lenin. ,, 


TIM SULLIVANffhe Observer 

A new statue on campus honors the leadership and friendship of Father Theodore Hesburgh and the late Father Edmund Joyce, president and executive vice president of the University, respectively, from 1952 to 1987. The statue was presented on behalf of the 50th reunion of the University's Class of 1953. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 

The Mara Fox 5K Run will be held on Saturday at 10:30 a.m. Sign in will begin at 9:30 a.m. at Lyons Hall. Students are permit­ted to sign up the morning of the race. The registration fee is $15 and includes a T-shirt. There will be free food and a raffie for vari­ous prizes. Proceeds go to the Mara Fox Scholarship Fund. 
At 8 p.m. tonight, Notre Dame's Glee Club will present its annual Fall Concert at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 and can be purchased by calling the tick­et office at (574) 631-2800. 
The women's swimming and diving team will compete against UC Berkeley today at 5 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The film "The Untold Story of Emmet Louis Till," directed by Keith and Kevin Beauchamp, will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. in Browning Cinema. 
Archbishop J. Michael Miller, secretary of the Vatican's Congregation for Catholic Education, will present the 2005 Terrence Keeley Watican Lecture at 8 p.m. Monday in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
Ana Garcia Rodicio, visiting fellow at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, will present a lecture titled "Post­Genocide Transitional Justice: The Process of Cambodia in Dialogue with Bosnia and Rwanda" at 4:15 p.m. Nov. 3 at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



HIGH 63 HIGH LOW 40 LOW 
Man posing as cop shows woman his tattoos 
BATESVILLE, Ark. ­According to Independence County deputies, Steven Terrell's first mistake was telling Christine Gray that he was an undercover officer for the sheriff's department. Then he showed her his dri­ver's license. Then he asked her for a date. Then he was arrested. 
Deputies arrested Terrell on Wednesday night after Gray called dispatchers to ask whether police agencies had a Steven Terrell working for them. Gray said Terrell wore a jacket With a sheriff's badge on it and repeatedly showed her his tattoos. He said he had left his badge at home, but showed the woman his license. 

Genuine deputies traced Terrell to a Batesville home and found a jacket that matched the one Gray de"scribed. Terrell said he was trying to impress the woman. 
Survey: Quarter of dogs are stressed out 
LONDON -Man's best friend has certainly not been treated that way. 
More than a quarter of all dogs in Britain are as stressed out as their over­worked owners, and a third are prone to vomit or have diarrhoea as a result of neg­lect, a survey said on Thursday. 
"Dogs are very sensitive to their owners' moods and pick up on when they are unhappy, unwell or under pressure," said Chris Price, business manager with Direct Line Pet Insurance. 
The survey found 26 per­cent of more than 1,100 dog owners who were polled believed their furry friends are suffering from stress and 53 percent described their own lives as being stressful. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

..... 
<C 
(.) 




0 

..... HIGH 57 HIGH HIGH 60 HIGH 62 
LOW 32 LOW LOW 35 LOW 43 
42 
34 

Atlanta 60 I 42 Boston 48 I 38 Chicago 54 I 38 Denver 64 I 40 Houston 76 I 52 Los Angeles 68/ 56 Minneapolis 58 140 New York 54 I 42 Philadelphia 54 I 42 Phoenix 83 I 60 Seattle 54 I 43 St. Louis 63 I 42 Tampa 78 1 61 Washington 55/ 40 
Friday, October 28, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Donors address need for blood 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
Organiznrs of the three-day blood drive hold at Notre Damn this week lauded the IWI~nt and deenwd it a success aftnr approxirnatnly 170 stu­dnnts ramo out to donate. 
For morn than six hours on Tuesday, Wndnnsday and Thursday, staff from the C:nntral Blood Bank managed tlw drivn ludd at Holf's Sports Hnernation Cnntnr. HecSports, Work Lir1~ and Univnrsity llnalth Serviens eollaboratnd with tlw South Bond Mndical Foundation to organize the on-1~a1111HIS drivn. 
HncSports Assistant l>i reetor .Inn n i fer Philips ­who lwlpnd coordinatn tlw ovnnt -said nearly 170 peo­ple donat1HI blood. Philips said this l'irst blood drive or thn <u~adnrnil~ yoar was "quito succnssl'ul" in comparison to last year. 
During thn 2004-05 school ynar, HncSports hosted thrnn blood drivns and a total of :wo people registered to donaw blood. 
Philips said this was the first ynar HneSports r.hosn to hold a blood drive ovnr the courso of three days as opposnd to the previous two­day preclldent. 
Tho limn slots to donate blood Tuesday wnrn only half­filled, hut by Wednesday and Thursday, all time slots were lillnd and HncSports eould no longPr accept walk-in dona-

Class teaches financial, legal savviness for jobs 
and are able to make good dm~i­
By LISA GALLAGHER 
sions about that." News Writer 
A 1997 study by the National Center for Women and For many, the realm of' finanen Hetirmnent Hesearch said :n pPr­is an intimidating place that eent of female invt>stors avoidnd requires forms to fill out and making decisions out ol' rear ol' math skills to survive, but with making a mistake eompan~d to 22 the help of onn Saint Mary's pro­percent of male investors. Math fessor, students can acquire an anxiety is also more acute in understanding of women than in the legal and men, the study said. 
"If I could. I would
linandal jargon of Allison Nichols, a the real world. call my class senior communica­"If I could, I tion studios major,
'Reality Bites.'" 
would call my said she deridnd to class 'Heality enroll in the dass Bites,"' professor Susan Vance becausn of iL'i usd'ul Susan Vance said. Saint Mary's professor information and 

Lions, Philips said. Instead, donors were required to schnuuln an appointment. 
Sophomore John Trippi made an appointment to givn blood on Thursday afternoon. Trippi said it was his "third or fourth time" donating blood, and that the experience was "quiek and painless." 
"They do a great job of making it convenient for stu­dents," he said. "It takes such little time out of your clay. For someone who is healthy· like me, it is something easy to do, and I would hope that if ever I needed blood, there would be others willing to give it." 
Melissa Miara, a junior, agreed with Trippi. 
"This is my third time giving blood," she said. "I gave at an on-campus drive last year as woll. I feel that it's a simple thing to do, but a very helpful one." 
Philips said she often receives phone calls from people wondering when blood drives will be held. For the most part, staff and student response is usually quite posi­tive, she said. 
"I am very impressed by the willingness of' people to donate," Philips said. "It is something that is easy to do, but provides others with a great service. We have been hosting blood drives for the past live or six years now, and we are sure to continue to do so in the future." 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 

"I want [my stu­dents! to know the clifl'enmt terminology that is used in health plans. I want them to know how to figure out which mutual fund is best for them." 
Vance -a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) and attorney­has been offering Legal and Finandal Literacy to a majority ol' non-business majors for about four years. Students learn about employee benefit selection, con­sumer debt and credit card man­agement investing, budgeting and how to prepare for taxes. 
"The average college student upon htraduating is not preparod to make intelligent choices about those options that are set forth the first clay on the job," Vance said. "If we want women to be prepared for the world once they graduate, it's important that women understand their finances design for tlw non­
business m;~jor. 

"I would highly rneomnwnd the dass," she said. "I think it should bo made a ge1wral education requimment." 
Vance said studonts or otlwr profi~ssors reeognizn tho valun of' tho cours1~ and oncourage others to enroll. 
Vanee will be spnnding mud1 of' her upcoming sabbatical this spring resoarching student intnr­nst in the course and learning fi1r which financial topies students havn tho most internst. 
"In general, thn vast m;~jority of' colleges and universities don't ofl'nr eourses liko this," she said. "It says good things about Saint Mary's College that wn're ofl'nring ono." 
Contact Lisa Gallagher at lgallaOl@saintmarys.edu 

ND®ttnews 
Weekly news magazine, featuring cover stories 
on campus, national, and world events. ~.._~unJays @ 8prn. 
tAr£ NIGHr r£t£VISION SHOW, F£ArUR/NG MUSt­CAtANO OrHER GUESTS, AS W£J,J, AS rAP£0 ANO t/V£ COM£0Y SKErCH£S. PAST GUESTS INCIUO£ CHUCK lENNON ANO 5Gr. rtM MCCAI?rHY. 
·MonJays @ 8prn. 


Bi-weel<ly show covering the top stories in the wide world ofNotre Dame Sports. Includes high­lights, scores, interviews with Notre Dame and na­Honal sportsfigures, and analysis. T uesJays @ 8prn. 
Check us out from 2pm to 2am daily on CHANNEL 14 . 
. 

Friday, October 28, 2005 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
tour suitable to his or her needs, al type things," he said. asked questions about dorm life, tour guides exemplify student tour guides introduce themselves Regner said he often talks the alcohol policy, the Catholic life. They are diverse in the activ­

Tours 

and share their own majors and about dorm spirit, SYRs, watch­nature of Notre Dame and why ities and majors they pursue." activities so students can be ing football from the student sec­she chose Notre Dame over other Before tours begin, members of
continued from page 1 

matched with a guide whose tion and classes. schools. the admissions staff give infor­the admissions office. Tour interests closely reflect their own. All tours begin "People want to mation sessions to prospective guides must be at least a sopho­Senior Lee Regner has been at the Main "People want to know what it's like students that describe the appli­more at the University and must giving tours for the admissions Building, pro­know what it's like to be a Notre Dame cation process and answer ques­go through a thorough applica­office since April 2004. Students ceed through student," Dugan tions about admission require­
to be a Notre Dame 
tion process. Before leading their interested in the Notre Dame LaFortune, head said. ments and SAT scores.
student.''
first tour, student guides attend marching band usually choose toward the Dugan averages Information sessions are held an information session and him as a tour guide to hear about library, to the one or two families on weekdays at 10 a.m. and 2 accompany a veteran on a cam­his own experiences in the band. Stadium, per tour but said on p.m., and both sessions are fol­
Kate Dugan 
pus tour. Since the information sessions through the halls football weekends lowed by tours at 11 a.m. and 3

tour guide 
The admissions office looks for given prior to tours cover statis­of DeBartolo, her group can have p.m., respectively. On Saturdays, students who can promote Notre tics and other specific application past Main Circle, nearly 30 people. information sessions are held at Dame both through the actual facts, Regner and he and other into the South Dining Hall, by the Admissions Coordinator 9 a.m. and 10:15 a.m., and are tour and through example via tour guides are free to take a Coleman-Morse Center and Bond Annette Edwards said her office followed by tours at 10 a.m. and their own achievements and more personal approach in their Hall, and conclude at the Grotto. rarely receives complaints about 11:15 a.m., n~speetively. involvement in University activi­descriptions of Notre Dame. Sophomore Kate Dugan is in the tour guides. ties. "I try to keep my tours story­her frrst year as a tour guide. On "Generally, the tours are very Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 
In order to give each prospect a based as opposed to telling factu-her tours, she said she is usually thorough," Edwards said. "The kriely@nd.edu 
Deep Throat revealer, alum to give lecture 
Special to the Observer 

Attorney and author John D. O'Connor, the Notre Dame alum­nus who revealed the identity of Watergate source "Deep Throat" earlier this year, will present a lecture titled "The Deeper Significance of Deep Throat" at 2 
p.m. Nov. 4 in the Carey Auditorium of the University's Hesburgh Library. 
Co-sponsored by the University's John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy and the Notre Dame Alumni A'>sociation under the auspices of its Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series, the pres­entation is free and open to the public. 
In an article for the July edi­tion of Vanity Fair. O'Connor, a 1968 Notre Dame graduate, broke the news that former FBI official W. Mark Felt secretly helped Washington Post reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein investigate the misdeeds of President Nixon and his administration in the early 1970s. 
O'Connor currently is working with the Felt family on a book with the tentative title "A G­Man's Life: The FBI. Being 'Deep Throat' and the Struggle for Honor in Washington," which will explain Felt's governmental service and involvement in the Watergate all'air. The book, to be published by PublicAfTairs Books, is scheduled for release next spring. 



Physicist studies letters 
from Darvvin, Einstein 
Special to the Observer 

A new paper in today's edi­tion of the scientific journal "Nature" by Notre Dame physi­cist Albert-Laszlo Barabasi offers a fascinating glimpse into the communication pat­terns of scientific giants Albert Einstein and Charles Darwin. 
Barabasi is a pioneer in net­working as a unified scientific theory and the author of "Linked: The New Science of NetwoTks." His earlier research led to significant find­ings on how networks are structured and how they oper­ate. Of late·, he has begun examining how people behave in networks. 
In a paper published last May in Nature, Barabasi revealed the results of his studies of e­mail usage. He found that e­mail usage is not uniform, but, rather, is marked by bursts of activity. This occurrence of very long periods of inactivity separated by bursts of intense activity follows a scaling law termed a "heavy tailed process" by physicists. 
In the eras of Darwin and Einstein, letters were the main communication and Barabasi sought to determine if their patterns of communication fol­low a different scaling law than that associated with today's instant-access e-mail. He chose to study the correspondence of Darwin and Einstein because the Einstein Archives in 
Jerusalem and the Darwin Correspondence Project in Cambridge offer a detailed record of their respective cor­respondence, containing the sender, recipient and date of each letter. 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
4 and 5 Bedrooms Available for Next School Year 
All include: 3 levels of living, private bedrooms, dishwasher, garbage disposal, A/C, washer & dryer, assigned parking spaces, and optional ADT security system 

~ 
tgJ 
**SPECIAL** 
Sign a lease before November 1oth and receive a 
FREE MONTHS RENT! 
For more information call Nicole at 574-514-2087 or e-mail at Nicole Soko hotmail.·com 
,. 


ORLD & NATION 
hiday, October 28, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Missile sbike kills seven Palestinians 
.IEHUS/\LEM -Israel killed seven Palnstinians in a missile strike Thursday against lslamie .Jihad, and Prime Minister /\riel Sharon said he would not inent with the Palestinian leader until lw eraeks down on armnd groups -a double-edged Israeli responsn to tlw latest suicide bombing. 
Sharon thrnatenml a "broad and relentless" oll"«msivn against Palestinian militants, includ­ing mass arrests and airstrikes, but security ollidals said lsranl would stop short of a large­scaln military operation. 
Sharon's decision to shun Palestinian lnadnr Mahmoud Abbas was thn dearnst signal yet that niTorts to n~vivn pnaeemaking af'ler lsnwl's pullout from the Caza Strip last month havn run aground. Abbas has said hn cannot and will not wnfront militants. fearing dvil war, but it's unliknly progress can be nl"ade unlnss tlw two lnadnrs mnnt. 
Shiite-Sunni clashes leave 15 dead 
B/\CIII>/\1>-lnsurgnnts using roadsidn bombs and small arms firn killed thren U.S. sol­dic~rs and woundnd filltr, while daslws southnast of Baghdad bntwm~n Shiitn militiamnn loyal to a radical dnrir and Sunni militanl'i lnfl at lmL'it 15 p«>opln dnad, oflidals said Thursday. 
Fivn Iraqis dind in otlwr attacks. 
U.S. aircraft. nwanwhiln, dnstroynd morn mili­tant safn housns nnar thn Syrian border, and apparnntly killnd a senior al-Qaida in Iraq figurn who W<L'> using religious courl<> to try Iraqis who support.Pd c~oalition f(lrms, thn military said. 
Tlw lighting bc>twnnn thn Shiitns and Sunnis occurred aflnr dnrie Muqtada al-Sadr's Madhi Army militia raided a housc~ in Nahrawan, 15 milc~s southnw.;t of Baghdad, to frnn a fi~llow mili­tiaman kidnappc~d by Sunni militanL<>. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
EPA studies ways to cut pollution 
W/\SIIIN<iTON -Govcrnmnnt studies mlmL<>ed Thursday show a broad range of poten­tial cosL<> if thn Unitnd Statns wern to regulate carbon dioxide to curb global warming, from rnlativnly cheap to expensive. 
The Environmcmtal Protnction Agency said iL<> analysns show the superiority of President Bush's plan for cutting air pollution from the nation's (J00 mal-burning power plmiL<>. 
But Bush's plan, whieh wouldn't rngulate car­bon dioxide at all, has boon stalled in Congress sincn iL<> introduction in 2002. Nonetheless, EP/\ eornparnd it with eurrcmt rngulations as well as mmpeting legislative proposals by Sens. Tom Carper, 1>-I>nl., and James Jetlords, 1-Vt. 
None of the proposals is expected to come up filr eonsidnration until next year at the earliest. 
Wilma causes food and gas lines 
MIAMI -Many Floridians struggled anothnr day to find filod, watnr and fuel af'tnr llurrieane Wilma on Thursday, with lines of people and cars f(lrrning around horne improvoment stores and g<L'i stations. 
!'resident Bush arrivnd in Miami to visit the National llurrieane Cnntnr and boardnd a heli­copter to get his first look at the damage wrought by Wilma in Florida, where about 2 million homes and businessns were still without power. 
Many g<L'> stations that had fuel were without nlnctridty, and othnrs that had power ran out of supplins. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Obesity affects Indiana's economy 
With nearly two thirds of Indiana residents obnsn or ovnrweight, Gov. Mitch Daniels today said that the problem interferes not only with the physical health of individuals, it also impacts the eeonomie health of thn state. 
lligh health-earn eosts here may dissuade businesses from moving to the state, he said at a press eonferenee this afternoon. 
"We have a long list of good reasons to come here. Many costs are lower than other states. But this is an exception," Daniel<> said. 
Miers withdraws nomination 
Bush defeated in his attempt to move the court to the right on pressing issues 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -In a 
striking defeat for President 
Bush, White I louse eounsol 
llarriet MiP.rs withdrew lwr 
nomination to the Supreme 
Court on Thursday af'ter 
thren wneks of brutal eriti­
dsm from fellow conserva­
tives. The Senate's top 
Hepubliean predicted a 
replacement candidate 
within days. 
Miers said she abandoned 
her quest for confirmation 
rather than give in to 
Senate demands for docu­
ments and information 
detailing her private advice 
to tlw president. 
Senior lawmakers on the 
Senate .ludidary Committee 
said they had made no such 
request. Instead, 
Hnpublicans and Democrats 
said politics forced her to 
withdraw, particularly the 
demands of Hepubliean 
conservatives who twice 
elected Bush and now seek 
to move the high court to 
the right on abortion and 
other issues. 
"They had a litmus test and llarriet Miers failed that test," said Sen. Edward 
M. Kennndy, D-Mass. 

"In ell'ect, she was denied due proeess by members of her own party," said Sen. John Warner, a Virginia Hepublican. And former GOP Sen. Dan Coats, whom the White House assigned with Democrats. Other, less eager to place Miers' nomi­nary legal expericmce, her to assist her win confirma­contentious contenders nation and the intra-party eharacter, <tnd hnr eon­tion, said outside groups could come from outside brawl it sparked behind servative judicial philoso­and pundits and "perhaps what Bush ealls the "judi­them as quickly as possible. phy." even some senators" had cial monastery," possibly a "Let's move on," said Sen. Senate Majority Leader rushed to judgment. current or Tormer senator Trent Lott of Mississippi. Bill Frist told reporters, "I 
Bush, beset by poor poll who could easily win confir­"In a month, who will expect a nominee quickly ... ratings, an unpopular war mation on a bipartisan remember the name within days," and held out in Iraq, high energy prices vote. Harriet Miers?" the possibility of confirma­and the possibility of indict­Sen. John Cornyn, a for­Ironically for conserva­tion hearings before ments of White House oiTI­mer Texas Supreme Court tives the withdrawal means Christmas. dals, offered no hint about judge, sidestepped when an extended tenure for The White I louse worked his thinking on a new nomi­asked about his own avail­Justice Sandra Day to depict the collapse of nee. lie pledged to make an ability, demurring without O'Connor, whose vote has Miers' nomination as a sim­appointment in a "timely closing the door on an been decisive over the ple mattnr of principle ­manner." appointment. "If the presi­years on 5-4 rulings that upholding exncutive privi­
While White House aides dent calls me, obviously I'll upheld abortion rights, sus­.Iege. had assembled a lengthy answer the phone or go see tained affirmative action llowever, in an interviow list or contenders prior to him if he invites me to and limited the application two weeks ago, Hnpublican Bush's selection of Miers come to the White House, of the death penalty. Arlen Speder, chairman of less than a month ago, most bot that hasn't happened Bush issued a statement the Judiciary Committee, if' not all of them were and I doubt it will happen," saying the 60-year-old had said when asked about prominent conservative he said. Miers would remain as possible withdrawal: "I jurists who could be expnct­Whatever the next ehoiee, White House counsel and think that would bn a sign ed to trigger a sharp dash many Hepublicans seemed praising "her extraordi-of incredible weakness." 

UNITED NATIONS 

2,200 illicit payments made to Iraq 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -A former French U.N. ambassador. A fire­brand British politician. The presi­dent of Italy's Lombardi region. Name-brand eompanies like DaimlerChrysler and Siemens AG. 
Prominent politicians and more than 2,200 U.S. and foreign compa­nies stand accused of colluding with Saddam Hussein's regime to bilk the U.N. oil-for-food program of $1.8 billion. 
In a scathing indictment of the program, investigators issued a 623-page final report Thursday 

that meticulously detailed how the $64 billion operation became a cash cow for Saddam and more than half the participating compa­nies. The corruption came at the expense of regular Iraqis suffering under tough U.N. sanctions. 
The report blamed shoddy U.N. management and the world's most powerful nations for allowing the seam to go on for years. 
"The eorruption of the program by Saddam would not nearly have been so pervasive if there had been diligent management by the United Nations and its agencies," said Paul Volcker, a former Federal Heserve 
chairman who led the investiga­tion. 
Volcker and many nations said thn report underscored the urgent need to reform the United Nations. Earlier reports in his investigation have already led to eriminal inquiries and indictments in the United States, France, and Switzerland. 
The investigators found that com­panies and individuals from 66 eountries paid illegal kickbacks using a variety of methods, and those paying illegal oil surcharges came from, or were n~gistered in, 40 countries. 
Friday,October 28, 2005 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

cingular 

:. t~(.J,M8.WJ!mm ~'QI{~ 
Mishawaka/South Bend 
University J>drk Mall (located in the F!J{xl Court) 
(574) 243-8016 
-·~-­
(~} :\·~g;/ 

The amount of music your ROKR El can hold depends on the compression rate of your songs and the amount of media stored on your phone. The Motorola ROKR El is aproduct of Motorola, Inc. Motorola and the Stylized MLogo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners. ©Motorola, Inc. 2005. TM & © 2005 Apple. The iTunes and iTunes logo are trademarks of Apple. By using the iTunes software you are agreeing to the software licenses in this package. Cingular and the graphic icon are trademarks of Cingular Wireless llC. Coverage not available in all areas. ©2005 Cingular Wireless. All rights reserved. 
Friday, October 28, 2005 


Dow 

10,229.95 -115.03
}ones 

.4 Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 872 123 ~ 2,4 I 4,333;620 
......

AMEX 1,623.61 7 48
w. ·-~l 
NASDAQ 2,063.81 -36.24 NYSE i~263.32 -71.4L] s&PSOO 1,178.90 -12.48 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 13,417.08 0.00 FTSE IOO(london) 5,182.80 -45.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ)  -2.01  -0.78  38.03  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -1.04  -0.26  24.85  
SIRIUS SATELLITE (SIR!)  -6.98  -0.44  5.86  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.00  -0.23  22.84  
SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW)  -0.51  -0.02  3.90  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.54  -0.26  47.70  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.72  -0.33  45.58  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.67  -0.30  44.30  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.34  -0.13  37.92  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.43  61.09  
GOLD ($rrroy oz.)  +2.60  475.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.90  87.15  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  115.4450  
EURO  0.8237  
POUND  0.5608  
CANADIAN$  1.1728  

IN BRIEF 
Stocks fall; durable goods orders slip 
NEW YOHK -Stocks .tum bind Thursday, slic­ing I 15 points from tho Dow Jones industrials af"ter a larger-than-expected drop in durable goods ordnrs raised new questions about the economy and eorporatn profits. 
Wall Street saw the Commercn Department's rnport on durabln goods -big-ticket itnms desigrwd to last at least three years -as another in a line or signs that consumer spend­ing eould dry up and further harm an already deenl11rating 11conomy. Orders l"or durable goods l"nll 2.1 perennt in Septmnber, l"ar more l.han thn 1.5 percent drop nconomists had fore­east. 
"Wo're starting to s11e some slowing in the m:onorny," Dirk van Dijk, director or research at Zacks Investment H11smtrch I ne. "I don't think we're going into a recession, but (Federal Hnserve Chairman-nominee Ben) Bnrnankn is going to hav11 his hands full." 
lnvnstors also rnmained concnrned that the Fed, in raising int11r11st rates to quash inflation, will further slow economic growth and compa­ny earnings by making capital morn expensive for eompanies looking to expand. The Fed next rnnnts Nov. 1 and is widnly expected to raise the nation's benchmark lending rate by a quarter pnrcentage point to 4 percent. 
Exxon Mobil profits break records 
DALIA"-Exxon Mobil Corp. rnwrot11 the eor­porate rncord books Thursday as the oil compa­ny's third-quart11r earnings soared to almost $10 hillion and it bneame the first public eompany ever with quarterly sales topping $100 billion. Anglo­Dul!:h competitor Hoyal Dutch Shell PLC wasn't far behind. posting a profit or $9 billion lbr the quar­ter. 
Those results led Democrats in Congress to demand a new windfall profits tax. "Big oil behe­moths are making out likn bandits, while the average American family is getting killed by high gas priees, and soon-to-bo record heating oil pric11s," Snn. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said in a statenwnt. 
But En11rgy Soeretary Samuel Bodman said l'rnsidnnt Bush opposes such a move and is instead considnring a wide range of proposals to lwlp cushion mnsurners, induding the creation of an ernerg1mcy r11serv11 of gasolin11 and other rnlinnd producl<>. 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Local phone ~ompanies merge 
The Jusitce Department approves the joinings of SBC-AT&T and Verizon-MCI 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The nation's two biggest local phone companies received approval Thursday from antitrust rngulators to buy the two larg11st long-dis­tance carriers in multibil­lion-dollar mergers that would chango the landseape of th11 telecommunieations industry. 
The Justice Department dearnd the morgers of SBC Communications Inc. with AT&T and of" Verizon Communications Inc. with MCI Inc. without any signifi­cant conditions, sueh as the asset sales that critics said wero needed to onsure ade­quate competition. 
The Fndnral Communication<> Commission still must sign off on the merg11rs, and that could come as early as Friday when the agency meets for its monthly public meeting. 
FCC Chairman Kevin Martin supports the merg­ers, but it's not dear if the two Demoeratic commis­sioners on the panel will go along. Beeause the commis­sion is split between two Hepublicans and two Democrats, Martin would need the support of at least one Democrat for approval. 

The SBC merg11r, valued at $16 billion, won't be the end of the AT&T name. SBC, based in San Antonio, plans ropolitan areas in Verizon's Bell monopoly and today is Atlanta, said the mergers to change its corporate territory and 11 metropoli­coddling the dominant Bell are indicative of an industry name to the iconic AT&T, tan regions in SBC's area, companies who seek to re­that is in the midst of mas­company ollieials said. the department said. monopolize each or their sive change. 
New York-based Verizon AT&T and MCI dominate regions," Kimmelman said. For the past 10 y11ars, will keep its eorporate name the market for business cus­Not so, says Verizon sen­local phone eornpanies have alter the $8.5 billion merger tomers, and the mergers ior vice president and been engaged in a l"ierce with MCI. would enhance the base of deputy general counsel battle with long-distance 
Justice Department business customers for John Thorne. The eight­companies for eustorners, approval requires Verizon Verizon and SBC. The deals month review by antitrust with the local carriers and SBC to lease to smaller would also expand their staff proves "that the trans­emerging largely victorious. competitors several hun­national and international action is pro-eompetitive Now, Kagan said. the dred unused or "dark" lines presence. and will not lesson eompeti­merged phone giants will that run to buildings serving · Gene Kimmelman, senior tion in any market," said compete with 1:able eompa­mostly business eustomers. poliey director at Thorne. nies -as cable offers The leasing is required in Consumers Union, said the SBC senior exncutiv11 viee phone and Internet serviens 19 metropolitan areas Justice Department decision president and general coun­and thn telephone compa­where the companies, will cut competition, leading sel James D. Ellis called it a nies otTer video and lnternnt either SBC or Verizon, to fewer choices for con­"fair and impartial detnrmi­servie11s. would be the only providers. sumers and higher prices. nation that ... the merger of "It's not going to hn sepa­
Without the condition, the "This is an earth-shatter­SBC and AT&T will not rate sectors," lw said. "It's mergers would have result­ing reversal of competition harm competition." going to be single compa­ed in higher priees for cer­policy from the agency that Jeff Kagan, an independ­nies that sell all those serv­tain customers in eight met-21 years ago broke up the ent telecom analyst in ices." 

SWITZERLAND 

Roche suspends Tamiflu shipments 
I 
' I 
I 
Associated Press 
GENEVA -Pharmaceutical com­pany Hoehe Holding AG said Thursday it temporarily suspended shipments of Tamiflu to private sector recipients in the United Stat11s to ensure that enough of the antiviral drug that experts believe is most eiTective in treating bird flu will be available for the influenza season. 
U.S. companies and large organi­zations apparently have heen hoarding the drug amid tht-·ead of bird flu and rears that the virus could mutate into a strain trans­mittable among people. On Thursday, Russia announced a n11w outbreak of the deadly 115N1 virus among poultry. 

"We've seen recently som11 very large purchases at the wholesale level, companies or large entities who are possibly hoarding Tamil'lu right now," said Darien Wilson, spokeswoman at Roche's U.S. onices in Nutley, N.J. 
The Swiss drug giant emphasized that the temporary suspension will not affect Washington's orders to build up a national stockpile of Tamiflu, the drug experts believe to be the best defense against a possible flu pandemic. 
"We have agr11ed orders with governments and w11 will fulf'ill them," said Al11xand11r Klauser, a Swiss-based Hoehn spokesman. "It is important that this is se11n sepa­rately from tho pandemic oiTers." 
lie said Hoehn's U.S. manage­ment proceeded with the suspen­sion because of the increasnd glob­al demand for Tarniflu. Hoehn ofTi­eials in Switzerland, (iermany and Canada already had disclosed that they were limiting distribution to pharmaci11s beeause they didn't want individual pnopln hoarding the drug. 
-------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 28, 2005 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
obtaining a voucher was a long and confusing process that would have gone smoother if the actual ticket booklets had been distributed at "Late Night with the Legion." 
"If people knew that they could get tickets instead of having to get the voucher I think more people would have come," Bulfin said. 
Buying the $60 ticket book­lets Thursday at the JACC 
went smoothly atively
"The University and
as anticipated, and that they said Josh the basketball program probably want­Berlo, director decided the best way ed a lot of of ticket oper­energy," Bulfin
to increase student 
ations. said. "It was a 
"The voucher excitement was to Wednesday and subse-make them stand in night so people quent pur-weren't exactly
the cold and watch the 
chase process excited about 
went smooth­team take lay-ups for it." ly," Berlo said. two hours.,, Senior Joe "The system McCarthy was was success-unable to
Eamonn Bahnson
ful, from a attend "Late ticketing and sophomore Night with the 
operations standpoint it was efficient and expedi­tious." 
Ticket vouchers could be redeemed beginning Thursday from 7· a.m. to 4 
p.m. All vouchers can be redeemed for ticket booklets until 4 p.m. today. 
"Lines were extremely short [Thursday], a five-minute wait at most," said Berlo. 
"If you have the voucher you're going to be able to buy tickets so there isn't a rush to get over there," Kornhaas said. "I have all day tomor­row to go." 
A total of 2, 700 bracelets were initially available and "well over 1,000 booklets were picked up [Thursday]," said Berlo. 
Though many students waited in the JACC for the full two hours Wednesday, the Notre Dame ticket office noti­fied students by e-mail that there were still a "limited number of ticket vouchers" available. Tickets will be issued to Notre Dame stu­dents only beginning at 7 
a.m. today at Gate 10 of the Joyce Center. 
During "Late Night with the Legion," students watched walk-on tryouts and heard from varsity basket­
ball players and "/ was expecting much a few games, head coach more energy from the leaving many Mike Brey. empty seats at
team.,,
"I was expect­home games. ing much more "It seems energy from the J.T. Platek like they team," sopho­encourage you
sophomore 
more J.T. Platek said. "I was hoping for the team to put on a high-energy dunk display or be a little more vocal." 
The free event was meant to excite fans about the upcoming basketball season while also giving students a chance to guarantee tickets. 
"Without tying it to ticket distribution, it would have been a fun event to get pumped about the basketball season," Bulfin said. 
Still, some students were frustrated with having to wait hours in order to obtain vouchers. 
"For a campus that is so dependent on sports, I could­n't believe students were forced to choose between watching the World Series 
and getting tickets," sopho­more Eamonn Bahnson said. "Rather than improve the basketball arena or put a winning team on the court, the University and the bas­ketball program decided the best way to increase student excitement was to make them stand in the cold and watch the team take lay-ups for tw..o hours." 
The timing of the event proved to be a problem for. many students, who thought Wednesday night was not the best time as it conflicted with studying and other obliga­tions. 
"I thought 
that it was rel­
calm 
Legion" and 

subsequently will not hold season basket­ball tickets as he has the past three years. 
"I think that they had a good idea going to sort of cel­ebrate the beginning of the basketball season," McCarthy said. "For me personally, it didn't work out with my plans. I had a football game at 10:30 p.m." 
Though McCarthy did not attend the event, he said he was not excited about the whole process when he heard about it. 
"Most people don't have anything to do in the early morning ... but a Wednesday night, I just thought it was sort of overkill," he said. 
But McCarthy was impressed with the speed at which ticket booklets could be purchased after a student obtained a voucher. 
"It was actually a pretty smooth process this morning. I didn't get tickets, but I went with one of my friends and it was pretty quick," he said. 
Student government is working on a ticket share program that will allow stu­dents to sell individual game tickets and alleviate the prob­lem of season ticket holders only attending 
to give your 
tickets to 

someone else if you're not going to be at the game. They want to fill the student section for every game," said Kornhaas, who will be selling his tickets to a friend before he leaves to study in London for the spring semester. 
"I know they're in a tough situation because the demand is higher than the number of tickets," said McCarthy, who plans on buying tickets to a few individual games now that he does not have season tickets. "I felt like they were trying to get people hyped up, but most people were just there to get tickets." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Come Listen And Learn About The COMMUNITY of SANT'EGIDIO 

Sunday October 30 at 7pm in the Center for Social Concerns (Next to Hesburgh Main Library on the Notre Dame Campus) 
The Community of Sant'Egidio, begun in Rome in 1968, is a movement of !ay people dedicated to prayer, charity, and living the Gospel message. Today there are over 60,000 members in more than 70 countries. Founder, Andrea Riccardi, received the 2001 Notre Dame International Award for the community's work with the poor and its international peace negotiations. 
Paolo Mandnem from Rome, Italy, will speak about the history of the Community and how you can be involved. 
Solidarity and Friendship with the Poor.i" Communicating the Gospel. Abolition o'f the Death Penalty. International Peace Negotiations. Humanitarian Aid. Prayer. 
For questions or additional info, contact Cassie Herman -cherrnan@nd.edu or Richard L.aSalvia Richard_L.aSalvia @sbcglobal.net or 574-315-9420 
Stop Shoppingl 
monthly tuition board payments, ir cut, and grab f§,.
LaFortune ter! 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 021 Lafortune Student Center 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
hiday, October 28, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Honald Young, a Protestant lay­throughout the entire Christian Israel troops in response to a and principles, what he called man and national coordinator for world. Palestinian attack, is it any sur­"small 'r' religion," of all three
Faith 
the U.S. Interreligious Committee "Is it a surprise that Catholics prise that Lutherans arc angry faiths. 
continued from page 1 
ticular faiths and to oll'er insight into intc\rrnligious dialogue. 
!iJr Peace in the Middle East, said here are angry if the water is cut about this?" the conflict threatens the contin­off [in a Jerusalem Catholic Young cited the written asser­ued presence of Christians in the church]?" he asked. "Or when a tion by the U.S. Catholic lloly Land -which reverberates Lutheran Church is occupied by Conference of Bishops that no 
religion can approach the prob­
lem alone: "I think the funda­mental question in this discus­sion is, 'Do we believe it?'" 
Habbi Uavid Saperstein, direc­tor of the Heligious Action Center of Heform Judaism, introduced the narrative theme and said the 3,000-year importance of the Holy Land forms the crux of the Jewish narrative. 
"You can't have a discussion on 

Katrina 
continued from page 1 
other Ameriean cities in that its residents love it and would never entertain the notion of leaving, said Barrett, whose entire family is from tho Big Easy. 
"New Orleans' vision for what it means to be a city and its dti­zens' commitment to one anoth­er and to the place is unique in America," she said. "And it dons offer America something." 
Philip Bess, a professor and the Director of Graduate Studies at the School of' Architecture, emphasized the cultural and practical needs for New Orleans to rebuild ­despite its hazardous geograph­ical location. 
"The deeper reason why New Orleans will be rebuilt has to do with its strategic location," he said. "The port at New Orleans is as important as at any point in the United States because of its location on the Mississippi River. The U.S. needs a city right there. It's a terrible place for a city to be located but a place where a city needs to exist." 
New Orleans must consider its natural environment as it moves ahead with rebuilding, Dean Michael Lykoudis of the School of Architecture said. 
"We have to live in harmony with nature," he said. "So much of the paradigm today is to resist and conquer nature instead of' behaving like sailors on boats, which is that their legs move a lot to accommodate 
issues without understanding the starting  "It really gave you a sense ofwhat peace  aticm. "One thing we tend to forget is  
axioms and pos­ could be like. "  that nvery :w to  
tulates in which  35 years a whole  
people shape their ·world views, or people  Rabbi David Saperstein director  nnw generation comes into power ... with a whole  
go  by  each  Religious Action Center  other worldview of  
other," he said.  of Reform Judaism  how tlwy should  

The conflict is so divisive that many interreligious coalitions in Washington rofuse outright to address two topics -abortion and Middle East conflict, he said. 
Saperstein called for collabora­tive action, not simply discussion. 
From talking, he said, "good things happen, not transforma­tive things, because people~ are still locked into their world view ... but by doing together we ean build more trust than talking together." 
Imam Feisal Abdul Haul', presi­dent of' the American Sufi Muslim Association, said that because nothing has been more divisive between the three n~ligions, nothing pleads for more attention than an Arab-Israeli solution. 
Hauf alluded to Jesus' com­mandments to lovfl God and neighbor -as well as the unalienable rights stated in the Declaration of Independence ­to emphasize the common ethics 
Like Saperstein, he insisted on a dedicated plan li1r peace. 
"A<> Father llesburgh said over dinner, 'Waging peace is even more challenging than waging war.' ... Waging peace requires as much logistical planning as does waging war." 
Haul' gave a locture oarlier Wednesday on his now book "What's Hight with Islam: A New Vision for Muslims and tlw West." 
All threo speakers reaffirmed signs of positive change in the 
Middle I\ast with 
the prnsnnt gener­
live," Haul' said. 

"Our societies are eo nstan tly rnl'iguring tlwm­selves." 
Young said 20 years ago. both sides canw to pmu:n talks "grudg­ingly," while today rnlud.anre has diminished. 
1\vnry Thursday night in Hamallah, Saperstein explairwd, t\rab jazz musicians play with Israeli jazz musicians a club in front of' a mixed crowd. 
"It really gavP you a scmse of' what peace could lw like," Ill' said. 
The panni discussion was spon­son~d by tlw Kror lnstitutP for International Pmu:e Studies, tlw Center for Soeial Coneerns. tlw Theology l>npartnwnt and its Program on Catholic Social Tradition and the OITiccl of' Campus Ministry. 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynnI@nd.edu 
the rhanging seas." 
One of most important issues in rebuilding New Ori<Jans is maintaining a long-term neolog­ical perspnetivn, said assoeiatn law professor Alex Camaeho, who also noted the challenge of' ensuring that those people who worn most all'netnd by the hur­ricane also reap the benefits of' 
n~building. 
"For a long time, sc~inntists pmdieted that anything gnmter than a fast-moving Category ;{ hurrirarw eould brnac~h lnven system." he said. "The tragedy is not that this hurricarw hap­pnrwd hut that we expeeted it to. It's amazing how many sci­entists pn~dic~ted what would orcur, yet the sanw inadequate system rnmainnd in plaen.'' 
Professor t\hsan Kar·ec•m of' the dnpartrnnnt of' civil engi­nenring and geological sdPnrPs agrePd with Camarho. 
"Nnw Orlnans to 1110 was a beautiful mad1ine that was lc~f't to rust," he said. 
Even morn eomplnx than the engineering and building issues arc~ the problems of' New Orleans' displaced population, Karenm said. 
"Unfortunately, thn poor peo­ple always have to take the brunt of' thesn issues," he said. 
Associate law profnssor Nicole Garnett exprnssml thn need for New Orleans to fundamnntally rnthink land use legislation. 
"Nnw Orleans needs to think about alternatives that allow the government to conl.rol rebuilding without producing sprawl," she said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle1@nd.edu 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
Tin lntkpn~dmt, Daily Newspaper &riling Notre lhmu: anJ Saint MaryS 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(S74) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNmre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiifC!aire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oh:.crvcr'(USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through Pdday ex<:c:pt during 
entl\ and va.cnti.on peti.ods. Amh~dpti<m m The ObSt.!fVt.r \5 $100 fm <>m:. at:adt.mic 
year: $55 tbronc"!lcmi!Stcr. 
Tht Ohscrver is published at; POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send addresa: corn:ctiuns w: 
Nom: Dame: IN 46S56-0779 The Observer 
Pcriudical po~tagc paid ;tf Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

J.nd addition~ mo1ilin~ offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrc Dame, IN 46556--0n<J 
l11c Oh~rvcr is a lllt!mher ofthe Associated Pr~. All rcproducriou right.'i art: rc.crvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Perry Mike Gilloon Karen Langley Ken Fowler Jenny Hames Jack Thornton Viewpoint Scene Becca Rosswurm Chris McGrady Graphics Illustrator Kelly MacDonald Robin Fallon 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Friday, October 28, 2005 

Ticket event poorly executed 
Students waited outside the Joyce Center for hours in the cold Wednesday for "Late Night with the Legion" in hopes of getting men's basketball tickets -fully prepared one year after tickets sold out at a torrid pace. But once inside, the eager students' excitement turned to disappointment as the first-ever "Late Night with the Legion" session unfolded. Energy waned quickly and the event did nothing to spike it. 
"Late Night with the Legion" was an event that meant well ­hyping up the men's basketball season is a perfectly good idea, but in this case it was poorly executed. O Jhe 
Thursday and today. 

And why did they sit? Only to watch the men's basketball team run mundane practice drills, among other activi­ties. Sure, there were vaguely entertaining contests, including a hamster ball race and a shootout between a student and Irish head coach Mike Brey, but nothing extraordinary. Nothing to make Irish fans truly enthusiastic about this year's basketball season. 
And so there were students watching the World Series on pocket televisions in the Joyce Center. Others weren't even paying atten­tion to the walk-on tryouts that took place because they were talk­ing with their friends, totally disinterested. Then there were the students who couldn't afford to spend more than two hours on a Wednesday night trying to get basketball tickets because of tests, projects, group meetings and other academic obligations. 
While the event itself was poorly executed, the overall process to get tickets was worse. So bad that two e-mails had to be sent to the student body so it could understand the process. A wristband to get a voucher to get a ticket book. That's just one too many steps. 
There has to be a better way to distribute tickets and generate enthusiasm for the basketball program. True, Notre Dame is a pri­marily football school. But that doesn't mean it can't have a suc­cessful ticket distribution system and at the same time generate enthusiasm for basketball. Since coming to Notre Dame, Brey has done a good job increasing student interest in the basketball pro­gram, but Wednesday night's event was a step back. If an event like "Late Night with the Legion" 
as Duke, Kansas and North Carolina do at "mid­
night madness"-type events as an example. Notre Dame is not any of those schools, but can make use of their modeL<> to help generate excitement for its program. 
As for tickets -although there were extra vouchers left from Wednesday -some sort of ticket exchange, whether it be on NDBay or through the selling of partial season tickets to students, needs to be implemented soon. This will be key in generating a loud, enthusiastic student section, as the more students that go to games, the more excited they will be. 
The reality of the situation is that Notre Dame is, and probably always will be, a football school first. But that doesn't mean bas­ketball doesn't play an important role here, and it doesn't mean it can't play the role it did in the 1970s when the Irish broke UCLA's legendary 88-game win streak. But the first step to generating the excitement that was once present is implementing a ticket process that truly serves the student fans. 
Americans have a morbid fascination of noting milestones each time an increment of measurement, regardless of size, is reached. As the year 2000 approached, some fought off computer meltdowns while others prepared for the second coming. 
This week was no exception in milestone calculations when the nwnberofAmerican soldiers killed in Iraq surpassed 2,000 while the nwnber of injured continued to climb beyond 17,000. 
Anyone attending the next Notre Dame foot­ball game can easily visualize how much carnage those numbers represent. The American death toll of more than 2,000 in Iraq is the equivalent of five Notre Dame bands. Focus on the band's presence in the stadiwn corner and then imagine seating four more bands in the sections above. 
The number of wounded American sol­diers represents one-fifth of a capacity crowd at Notre Dame Stadium. To visualize the injured Americans recovering from attacks, simply look at the Notre Dame stu­dent section extending from midfield to the comer of the end zone. Extend that seating arrangement to the stadium tunnel, but be prepared to add two rows of seating per week to keep pace with mounting causali­ties. 
An even more astounding visualization of the horrors of war is the image oflraqi deaths since the invasion in 2003. With estimates of civilian deaths nearing 110,000 in Iraq, in1agine Notre Dame sta­dium bulging in attendance for the University of Southern California game. Now add a second upper seating bowl equal to the stadium expansion of several 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 

years ago. The total of those within this expanded stadiwn represents lives no longer walking this earth. 
Our fascination with nwnbers does not necessarily begin with increments ofthou­sands, hundreds or even tens. In early October, this writer's native state of Pennsylvania marked the second time in two months that it lost five National Guard soldiers in a single attack in Iraq. That most recent milestone happened to coincide with another, namely that Pennsylvania also sur­passed a total of 100 deaths. 
According to military officials, the five were killed near Ramadi while on a rou­tine patrol providing security for the con­struction of a railroad bridge. An explosive device struck their Bradley Fighting Vehicle, which was then attacked by small arms fire and rocket-propelled grenades, setting it ablaze. The description of the incident's detailed, coordinated effort gives every indication that American troops will continue to suffer losses in the foreseeable future. 
The latest deaths increased to 104 the nwnber ofsoldiers with ties to Pennsylvania who have died in support of the U.S. war in Iraq. More than 3,200 Pennsylvania guardsmen are deployed in Iraq, the highest per capita in the nation. Only California and Texas have suffered more casualties in the war in Iraq. All but five of the 104 Pennsylvania soldiers died after May 1, 2003, when President Bush announced the end of major combat in Iraq. 
Our fascination with nwnbers does not necessarily limit itself to geographical regions. One of the first U.S. soldiers to die in Iraq, Jose Gutierrez, was an orphaned Guatemalan who at the time of his death was not even an American citizen. While some further set milestone measurements on ethnicity, others attempt to caleulate the nwnber of non-citizens currently in the active Armed Forces. 
According to the Pew Hispanic Center, while Latinos are nearly 10 percent of actively enlisted forces, they are over-rep­resented in the most dangerous assign­ments-infantry, gun crews and seaman­ship -and make up more than 17 percent of the front line forces. As ofAugust, Defense Department statistics show a casualty rate of more than 13 percent for people of llispanic background serving in Iraq. Ironically, more than 50 percent of the Hispanic population, neatly 18 million, live in the two states ITexas and California) with the highest overall number of deaths in Iraq. These states are historically large recruitment centers for the Armed Forces. 
Hispanics have been attracted in part to military service in response to a July 2002 executive order signed by President Bush. It expedites naturalization for aliens and non­citizen nationals who serve in active-duty status during the administration's "war on terrorism." Rather than waiting for as much as four years, the order allows non­citizens to apply for citizenship immediately upon arrival at their first military base. 
Defense numbers indicate that 35,000 non-citizens currently serve in the active Armed Forces, 15,000 of whom became eligible for expedited naturalization under the executive order. It is sobering to think that non-citizens in Iraq outnumber the total of all coalition forces other than Britain and represent about a quarter of the U.S. effort. Trying to visualize this dis­tinction demands yet another upper expansion to the stadium. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a politi­cal strategist who served as a legislatipe and public af!airs director in President Clinton sadministration. His column appears every other Friday He can be con­tacted at hottli.ne@aol. cum 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Understanding the death toll in Iraq 
Students were forced to sit in the Joyce Center userver is going to happen, it needs to be exciting, some­arena stands for two full hours in order to get their thing that students will deem worth their time. vouchers that enabled them to purchase tickets Notre Dame should look at what other schools such 
Editorial 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Are you planning to buy men's basketball tickets? 

Ill'S bmlt. aL~,etter 1
c 

"You must not lose faith in humanity.
a. No, I'm not afan 

Humanity is an ocean; ifa few drops of
b. No, the team isn't going to be good 

the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not
this year 
become dirty." 
c. No, the process is too complicated 

Ito the Editor at 1
···~ .. •... · ... .... .. .... ······· .. ··. ·• .. . ·. ·.. .. ~.
d. Yes, I'm adiehard fan 
Mahatma Gandhi 
*Poll appears courtesy of 
religious leader

Iwww.ndsmcobserver.com I
www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based 
on 92 responses. 
,,~~ 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday October 28, 2005 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The pre-eminence of life; a rejoinder 
Letters Oct. 13, 14, and 25 by Professors Donald Kommnrs, Alexander Hahn and James McKenna defending Dean Mark Roche's encouragement to vote for pro-abor­tion prt~sidential candidate Kerry are disappointing. They do makfl valuable points. a..<; did Roche in la..<;t year's New York 'limes op-ed; the need to ease the fmancial pressure which makes pregnancy especially challenging for women who are poor is an example. (Indeed, much wonderful work aimed at relieving this problem is done by pro-life cri­sis pmgnancy centers which provide support for pregnant womnn in need.) But there is too great a tendency by these limr faculty mnmbers to rationalize Kerry's pro-abortion position and to fail to acknowledge the gravity of the harm which his abortion advocacy causes. 
A-; Hoche correctly pointed out, abortion is like slavery 150 years ago: it is the moral L<;sue of our age. But would the dean have written of a candidate in 1850, "He's wrong about slavery, but good on other issues"? By what logic can we nxpnet a candidate, unable to recognize the inherent evil of intentionally killing innocent unborn children, to rnako sound moraljud!,rmenl<; about other issues? The dnan eorrectly identified the evil of abortion, but then drew the wrong condusion: That the best way to reduce the prnvalence of abortion was to vote lor the most strongly pro-abortion pmsidential candidate in our history. 
Hoche's op-nd wa..<; basnd on a fallacy: Erroneous statis­tics promotnd by Democratic National Committee Chairman lloward Dean and others implying that electing a Republican president would likely lead to a higher abor­tion raltl, and the election of Knrry to a lower one. '1\vo rncnnt reports disprove this. The Alan Guttmacher Institute reporl-; that abortion totals, rates and ratios have all dndined since George W. Bush took office in January of 2001. Thn U.S. Centers for Disea ..<;e Control also mports a decrna.-;n in abortions following President Bush's 2001 inauguration. And the abortion dndine in the '90s was not dun to pro-abortion Prnsident Bill Clinton; it occurred becuuse of advancns in ultra..-;ound and the national debatt~ ovnr partial-birth abortion (both of which raised awareness about the victim of abortion), and because of elforl<; by pro­life voluntners at crisis pregnancy centers providing help to pregnant women. 
What dons the Democratic Party platform say about abortion'? "Wn stand proudly for a woman's right to choose, consistent with Hoe v. Wade" -proud support for abortion on dmnand. And Kerry may have changed his position on a lot of issues, but never on abortion. A<; evidenced by his Senatn voting record and his relentlessly unequivocal posi­tion during the campaign, he wa..<; the most pro-abortion prnsidential candidate ever. Hoehn excused his Party's and his eandidate's support for legal abortion on demand: "The moral eondenmation of abortion, however, need not lead to the conclusion that criminal prosecution is the best way to 
limit the number of abortions." 

The pro-life movement is not about pointing the finger of blame at those who have had abortions. It's about prevent­ing deaths in the future. It's about clarity of teaching, and eschewing moral relativism and situation ethics when it comes to matters of life and death. 
Biology shows that a unique, separate human life begins at conception, when sperm and egg unite. This first cell contains 46 chromosomes, 23 from the mother, 23 from the father. From conception onward, the unborn child develops continuously: Within three weeks, the baby's heart is beat­ing; by six weeks, the baby's brain waves can be measured. The blood coursing through the baby's body is not the mother's, but the baby's, and can be a different blood type than the mother's. By 11 weeks the baby has fingerprint.<;, all organs are present and all body systems are active. 
"Criminal prosecution" of the mother is not the pro-life movement's goal. The woman is the second victim of abor­tion. Women and girls are often pressured into getting abortions-by circumstances, by the culture. Were it not for the societal stamp of approval which results from abor­tion's legality-and the social pressures and expectations which that brings-most women would not feel pressed to consider such a destructive act. For women who do resort to abortion, the emotional scars (not to mention the physi­cal ones) sometimes last a lifetime. A much more positive, humane, compassionate solution for an unwanted child than abortion is adoption. 
Would there be illegal abortions if the unborn child were protected by law? Some, no doubt, but many fewer abor­tions than now. There are approximately twice as many abortions in the U.S. today as there were prior to Roe v. Wade. 
Prof!Jssor Kommers says Roche was advocating the "art of the possible" regarding abortion. But his op-ed advocat­ed an outcome that would have made it impossible to pro­tect the child in the womb. Kerry famously promised dur­ing last year's campaign, "I will support only pro-choice judges to the Supreme Court. Some may call this a litmus test." I Ie repeatedly pledged he would nominate only jus­tices who support Roe v. Wade. His election would have made legal protection for unborn children impossible for a generation or more. Why? Until Roe v. Wade is reversed by the Court, those state legislatures to which Kommers referred are powerless to defend the child in the womb. State lawmakers, bound by Supreme Court rulings, cannot protect the 3,500 babies who are killed every day by elec­tive abortion. 
Professor McKenna, a favorite of some of my children ­including a daughter currently in his class-emphasizes "the centrality of conscience rather than mere obedience to public authority," whieh, he says, was also Dean Roche's point. But corresponding with our duty to follow our con­science is our obligation to educate it. That's where some of our institutions are falling short. 
I did not describe Roche as a "proponent of abortion," or misrepresent hL<; "values, beliefs and purpose," as McKenna said. I wrote not about the dean's motives, but about the consequences of his readiness to embrace a can­didate who is, indeed, a "proponent of abortion." Hoche himself wrote about the evil of abortion, but our principles must inform our actions. Our endorsement.<; of candidates should reflect our priorities. 
As for McKenna's a..<;king why single out Hoche, it's because we properly expect more from those in leadership; we look for a higher standard, especially when they act in the name ofNotre Pame. As I said Oct. 12, my intent is not to be personally critical of Roche, about whom everything I hear is exemplary. This difference of perspective about emphasis and priority concerning a very serious issue is but a learning opportunity for us all. • 
My use Oct. 12 of words such as "mi<;ta.ken" and "damag­ing" refer to Roche's understanding of the pro-life effort, and the effect of his op-ed on the pro-life cause, respectivn­ly. I did not say that what he wrote wa..<; "advocacy of abor­tion," as McKenna said. Rather, what he wrote showed a tolerance for abortion that L<; disturbing. Why cede tho Democratic Party to those who promote abortion, rather than fighting for the soul of tho Party and returning it to il-; 1ifi~-affirming traditions of the recent pa..-;t, a hnritago of defending tho "littln guy" and protecting those at the mar­gins oflife? 
Notre Dame is a Catholic university, but nvnn if it worn not, we here could clearly recognize abortion <L'> tho ulti­mate violation of the most fundamental human and civil right of a living human being-the right not to bn killnd. No reference to religion is necessary to understand that. 
The key point which the dean's op-nd misses is that tho law is a teacher. And in a systnm of govnrnment sueh a..<; ours. it is each citizen's responsibility to work for just laws that protect the weak from those who would do them harm. We must have the willingness and eourago to teach the college generation the truth about abortion; they need and deserve that from us. and their childrnn's lives will depend on it. This is our duty as professors and parent-; ­especially in a nation with government "by the people." We all are accountable. 
Anthony J. Lauinger Vice President National Right to Life Committee Notre Dame parent Oct. 27 

Exploring feminine spirituality 
I would like to express my deepest grat­itude to Lance Callop for his Oet. 25 col­umn that sought to draw attention to the oftnn un-recognized spiritual power of women. 
You arn right Lance. woman is nnated in tho image of Cod just as man is, and this means shn too is a spiritual !wing in whom the 
pn~snnce 
and wis­


dom of tlw lloly Spirit is rnani­fnstnd in 
a pro­lillmd way. 
I invite tht~ nwm­bnrs of the Notro Damn liunily who lind some rnsonan1:n with the notion than (;od is bigger than both male and limuLle, I invite those who believe that men and women are both eapablo and called to share faith, to spmtk on the Word and to bn instru­ment-; of the lloly Spirit in the wtlrld, I invite all of you to the "Spirit of Sophia." 
This is a liturgical celebration held in Pasquerilla East every Monday evening at 10 p.m. It is a place for community, for prayer, for quiet. and for reflection. 
Women from the Notre Dame communi­ty offer their wisdom on the Word through their homilies, as we 
all attempt to grow eloser to the presence of the Iloly Spirit within 
each of us. I invite 
all, men and women, thosn who have ques., Lions, who won­
."l •• 
der, and who want to explore the power of spirituality, to join us in our liturgy. 
This is not about feminiz­ing the world, the Spirit of Sophia, of wis­dom, is about com­ing to see the power of the I Ioly Spirit to transform our lives so that through us, she might begin to renew the face of our broken earth. 
Casey Stanton junior Pasquerilla East Oct. 27 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Friday, October 28, 2005 
the past International · is lauded for style, eighth bl lied "friendly, u and highly skilled" Yorker." Since the groups founding, eighth blackbird has been involved in pre­miering new works from respected composers such as George Perle and Joseph Schwanter. The group has three CDs release on the label Cedille Records. In addition to a strenuous regiment of touring the country, as well as Europe and Canada, eighth blackbird has been active in the role of teaching. The group has taught masters classes and 

Unive ·.· Conservato University. In addition to eighth blackbird, Upshaw will be joined by Gustavo Santaolalla's accompaniment on guitar. for the opening set. His professional music career started at the age of 16 with the release of his first single. Soon after that, he started the band Arco Iris in 1967, which was a fusion of rock and Latin American folk that was a pio­neer in its genre. In 1997, Santaolalla 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 
-----~~~----­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, October 28, 2005 
page 13 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
'The Maltese Falcon' offers a glimpse into film noir's history 




Photo courtesy of members.tripod.com "The Maltese Falcon," based on the book by Dashiell Hammitt and staring Humphrey Bogart and Mary Astor, Is playing Saturday at 3 p.m. In DPAC. 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Assist.tlll S(t'll<' Editor 
BetweP11 tlw 110-nonsensn detP.clivn 
sitli 11 g i n his u11 adorned oITien, the 
watchful secr«ltary. thn untrustworthy 
fmnnw fatale and the muddled mix of 
had 1~ops and nven worse criminals. 
"Tiw MaltPsn Falcon" bngins many 
trl'nds that. lwcanw hallmarks of f'ilm 
noir and standard practi1:es in genera­
tions of films that follow. 
Thn film is basnd on the book by llashinll llammitt, who is well-known as onP of thn piorwers of the hard­boiled style of crinw writing. The movie manages llammilt's complex plot, with all its double-and triple-crosses, with a ddt hand and has a cast that does such It good job with their charaetnrs that tlwir pnrformarH~ns are imitated to this day. 
As orw of the first and most famous of' Llw hard-boiled dP.tective films, it sets up tropns that have be<m snnn in elassie movies likP "Chinatown" and "Blade Bunner" and continues to be seen in eurrnnt films like "Thn Man Who Wasn't Tlwre." 
Thn film's serennplay was wriltnn by .John Houston, and it also marks his directorial debut. The movie also began a partnnrship bntwecn Houston and star llumphrey Bogart that would con­tinue with the elassie films, "The Trcasurn of' Sierra Madre" and "The African Queen." Thn l'ilm also casts Bogart with Petnr l.orre and Sydney c;rennstreet, both of' whom would reap­pnar with Bogart in the most classic of' dassie films, "Casablanca." 
"The Maltese Falcon" balances an nxtraordinarily complicated and convo­lutnd plot surrounding a group of' ITirn­inals all attempting to acquire a sup­posedly prienless statue of a faleon. At the <:entnr is Sam Spade (Humphrey Bogart). the arehetypal hard-boilnd detndivn who walks in the gray area between criminals and police on the stronts of San Francisco. 
Spado is first approached by Huth Wonderly (Mary Astor), who asks him to hnlp her located her sister who has been seduced by a man named Floyd Thursby and decided to run away with him. 
After Spade agrees to take the case, his partner, Miles Archer is killed while 

BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 
tailing Thursby. He soon learns that Thursby was killed almost immediately aftor Archer. Spade tries to find Wonderly, but loses her trail until her learns that she is staying in a hotel under thn name Miss Leblanc and that her rna! namn is Brigid O'Shaughnessy. She admits that her first story was false and that slw and Thursby were part­nnrs. 
Joel Cairo (Peter Lorn~). a mysterious new customer, approaches Spade about helping him locate a statue of a black bird. 
A larger power player, Mr. Gutman or "Thn Fat Man" (Sydney Greenstreet), comes into the game and ups the stakes. lie is looking for the Maltese Falcon and will do whatever it takes in order to get it. 
Spadn must wade through the lies and motivns of each of tho three people seeking the falcon. Through a series of double-crosses, power plays and reve­lations the truth about each of the characters and the falcon itself emnrgns. The Maltese Falcon, thought to be incredibly valuable, is found to be utterly worthless. In spite of' the revela­tion about the falcon's true nature, those who have been seeking it refuse to give up because they refuse to accept the truth. 
The final resolution of the play reveals that Spade, while appearing to be a pawn for various unseemly char­acters to manipulate, has actually been controlling the action from the begin­ning. 
The final lines of the film reveal a great deal about the plot and the nature of treasures that people are willing to do anything to get. A police sergeant says of the statue, "It's heavy. What is it'?" To which Spade replies, with a nod to Shakespeare's "The Tempest," "The, uh, stuff that dreams are made of." 
"The Maltose Falcon" is the stuff' that dreams arc made of. at least in the minds of most current and aspiring directors. The multiple lines of the plot are well-balanced by a great cast, great direction and fantastic cinematography. 
The film will be screening at the DPAC on Saturday, Oct. 29 at 3 p.m. in the Browning Cinema as part of the PAC Classic 100 Films. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 28, 2005 
NFL 

Former Irish star 
charged with DUI 
Police allege Saints linebacker had open botle ofbeer in his car 
Associated Press 

.­
SAN ANTONIO New Orleans Saints linebacker Courtney Watson was charged with drunken driving. 
Police said the 25-year-old Watson was driving on Interstate 10 when he was pulled over early Wednesday for erratic driving. They said an open bottle of beer was found in the front cup holder of the car. 
He was "combative" and failed a field sobriety test but refused a breathalyzer sample, their report said. Watson was released on $1,000 bond pend­ing arraignment Dec. 5. 
Watson, the starting middle linebacker, was a second-round pick out of Notre Dame in 2004. He was among 11 players cho­sen for the American Football Coaches Association's "Good Works Team" in 2003 for out­standing community service. 
Saints spokesman Greg Bensel said the team's security department was investigating. The Saints relocated to San Antonio after Hurricane Katrina. 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles set for MIAA meet 
Saint Mary's faces Hope and Olivet in its first meet under new coach 
Nelis swims butterfly and IM. 

The meet today should be an early test for the captains and their Belle teammates. Olivet has consistently been a top competitor and Saint Mary's looks to come out strong if it intends to prove it can contend for the MIAA championship this season. 
According to Dingeman, the Belles plan to start and finish this season as a team, even though many compete individu­ally. 
"Every swimmer is a key swimmer," Dingeman said. "Our team is held together by a pas­sion for swimming and constant support for one another." 
Contact Becki Domer at rdomer1 @nd.edu 
By BECKI DORNER Sports Writer 

Excitement is riding high as the Saint Mary's swimming team hopes to start out the sea­son with a strong performance in its first meet versus Hope College and Olivet College at model, the Belles will have nowhere to go but up. 
"She is passionate about Saint Mary's College and has worked very hard to build our athletics program since she has been here," she said. "We are lucky to have her as our coach this year." 
Dingeman herself, as well as 
Olivet today . co-captain New coach "Our team is held Kelly Nelis, will 
Lynn Kach­together by ... constant also look to 
marik, also the lead their fel­
support for one another. '' 
Saint Mary's low teammates athletic direc­by example. tor, will be Katie Dlngeman Both are the leading the Belles captain only seniors on Belles this year, the team, and 
and she brings with her 30 will undoubtedly be expected to years of coaching experience. provide leadership and mentor­Captain Katie Dingeman knows ing for the younger swimmers. that with such a positive role Dingeman swims freestyle and 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Feauto and Otto will lead 
Senior and junior duo set personal records in team's last meet 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
Two weeks after several Belles set personal records in the Manchester College Invitational, Saint Mary's returns to action Saturday at 11 a.m. in Kalamazoo, Mich. in the MIAA Championships. 
Senior Becky Feauto and jun­ior Sara Otto hope to lead the Belles in the race, which accounts for two-thirds of the conference title. 
Feauto said the team is hit­ting its stride at the right time. 
"The three seniors -myself, Megan O'Neil and Jess Eaton ­we all had [at least our] season [personal bests] at Manchester," she said. "We're right in line to peak as far as I can see." 

Feauto broke the 20-minute mark in her final collegiate five-kilometer race at Manchester, and she hopes to further her success in the six­kilometer MIAA race. 
"A 6-K, it is a different race, but I think you have to run it like it's a 5-K," she said. "You can't let it get to your head." 
Belles Head coach Jackie Bauters said she expects the momentum from Manchester to translate into good results, even though the race is 1,000 meters longer. 
''I'm really excited. It's going to be really com~titive within our packs," Bauters said. "I don't think it's so substantial a longer race endurance wise that it will affect [them] in a negative way." 
Bauters said she expects Fauto and Otto, who have fin­ished 1-2 for the Belles in all six 5-K races this year, to lead the Belles in the longer race this weekend. 
"I think they probably will finish one-two," Bauters said. 
"But I don't think the 3-4's will be too far behind." 
Bauters said Feauto should have a mental edge this week as opposed to the past, as well. 
"That 20-minute barrier, I know for me, was huge," she said. "Because once you break it, you're usually good to go. It's just doing it once [that is important]. 
"Mentally, it makes them so much more confident in their abilities." 
Otto also has a reason to be optimistic. She set a personal best at Manchester with a time of 20:03, good for No. 11 over­all in the race. 
Feauto said she expected Otto's momentum to carry over into this weekend. 
The Belles enter the race in fifth place in the conference standings, and Feauto said that among their goals is to catch Kalamazoo, which enters the race in third. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Teatn looks to snap Purdue losing streak 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame has gotten off to a hot start in 2005, but the Irish have not yet encountered a team like Purdue -or a swimmer like Giordan Pogioli. 
The squad will face its biggest challenge of the season Saturday when it travels to West Lafayette to take on the Boilermakers, as Pogioli has dominated breast stroke races in collegiate swim­ming for the past three years. The Purdue senior swam in the prestigious World University Games this summer. Notre Dame head coach Tim Welsh could not find enough good things to say about the Purdue superstar. 
"He is on the USA swimming national B team, which means he is top 15 in the world," Welsh said. "He is straight up very good." 
But Purdue's talent extends 
beyond Pogioli. A national power year in and year out, the Boilermakers are No. 15 in the country heading into Saturday's match. 
"Purdue is a very good team," Welsh said. "In my time here [20 years], we have not beaten them. We know that we have a chal­lenge ahead of us going down there on Saturday." 
Notre Dame opened the 2005 season with two consecutive vic­tories. On Oct. 7, the Irish hosted and finished first in the Dennis Starks Relays. And Oct. 21, the team defeated Texas A&M in its first head-to-head matchup of the season. 
The early success gives the Irish a confidence boost heading into Saturday. "We're building on the direction that we've estab­lished and we are eager to keep it going," Welsh said. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3·5 BED· WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do ROOM HOMES. HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-not go it alone. If you or someone NOTICES WANTED FoR SALE GOOD CONDITION. CLOSE TO 1408 you love needs confidential support 
CAMPUS. Call Sean 532-1895. or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. SPRING BREAKERS Book Early 1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli-Area Houses and Apartments for Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more and Save Lowest Prices Hottest ALL STUDENTS ances. $69,900. Call Kim Kollar 574-GREAT HOUSES rent. Log on to MichianaRentals.com information, see our bi-weekly ad in Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE Part Time Work $12.25 base/appt. 280-8160. CENTURY 21 JIM DUN-GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS Caii574-993-RENT (7368). THE OBSERVER. TRIPS OR CASH FREE Flexible schedules around classes. FEE andersonNDrentals.com MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest Gain exp. in customer sales ADOPTION: At home Catholic Commission Best Travel Perks & service. ND FANS For Sale: Cabin 25 mi. YEA! COLLEGE PARK has schooled mom and lawyer dad with 4
TICKETS 

www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426-Conditions apply, all ages 17 & older. from ND. Wooded gated community apartments available for 06-07 school yr old big brother long to share their 7710 Call Today 574-273-3835. with lake access. 3 BD 2BA loll, year. Call today 235-7234. WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP happy home and family with a baby. 
screened porch, FP, $295,000. Call $$PAID. 251-1570. Financial security/bright future in 1-bedroom apt 1-mile from I\ID in NOW HIRING Have a car? 619-606-8815. BLUE & GOLD HOMES. S.CA beach community. Expenses quiet historic neighborhood, Need some extra cash? Best rates for weekend, monthly & FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. paid as permitted. LegaVconfidential. $575/month. Call 283-0325 OPEN HOUSE Sunday 2-4, 19633 yearly rentals. 574-250-7653. 289·9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE Please call Adrienne and Steve toll 
Jimmy John sis hiring drivers for all Glendale. East off 933. Brick ranch & FOR$$: www.victorytickets.com free anytime: 1-888-476-2220. KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES shills. Contact Chuck at 286-0299. efficiency, 3bdrm,3 bath total. 1/2 Historic 1830 Greek Revival home on FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 acre on creek. 2.5 miles to ND. For the St. Joseph River available for BUYING & SELLING ND FOOTBALL Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO CAM-Ten girls from the Class of 2005 Sale at $119,900. Mickey Kane 286-footbaiValum weekends --just over TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. Days from $299! Includes Meals, PUS 4 BEDROOMS, UP TO 10 looking for a place within walking 8209 AWARD REALTY the Michigan border from South Bend MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, 
BEDROOMS CALL 315·5032, ASK distance to ND to rent for the in Buchanan. $600-850. 3+ bed-BUY/SELLITRADE OR SWAP ND Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! FOR KRAMER Tennessee weekend. rooms, bam with"gentlemens quar-FOOTBALL TIX. 289·8048. Campus Reps Needed! 
Call Andrea at FoR RENT ters" for cigars, direct river frontage. PromoCode:31 www.springbreak· KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS 1 SIN-651-308-9285. See http://www. vrbo.corn/61848. travel.com 1-800·678-6386 GLE FAMILY HOME AVAILABLE 140 HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 Call David at 312 575-0601. PERSONAL 
N. SHORE BLVD. 3 BEDROOMS, Loving family seeking adoption. Bedrooms includes all utilities, local Jedis...Chocolates...Drunken wed­
1.5 BATHS GREAT FOR PROFES-Will pay med. exp. etc, & give much phone, washer/dryer, security system. Rooms in private home for rent dur-SPRING BREAK -Early Booking ding receptions ...Obama envy ... SORS, STAFF OR GRAD STU-love to a baby you bring into the $400/student. ing ND football weekends or other Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks-$50 Power dinners ...lt's been a great DENTS CALL 315-5032 ASK FOR world. Office 234-9334, Cell315-2509 ND-SMC events. Deposit· 800·234-7007 www.end-year at the top. Happy 22nd to my KRAMER Call 269-429-3411. ndstudentrentals.com Call 243-0658. lesssummertours.com favorite baby bureaucrat! -C 
Friday, October 28, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
PE geared to upset rival PW 
Just one win stands between Welsh Fam and a playoff berth 
By JAY FITZPATRICK and 
JASON GALVAN 
Sports Writers 
As the season is dying down, onn of' the biggest rivalries in thn womnn's dorms still has yet to bo played, but the best Pasqucrilla will be dm:ided Sunday at 2 p.m. at Hiehle Fields. 
Coming into this game, l'asquerilla West is the clear favorite, as the Purple Weasels are guaranteed a playoff' spot and are now just playing for position while l'asquerilla East l'ailnd to qualify for the postsea­son. Despit1~ the fact that the l'yros cannot advance, they 1:an still play spoiler to the rival Purple Weasds. 
l'yro mach Patrick Higney has been irnprnssed with his team this ymtr. 
"W1~ 'vn played a lot bolter than I thought we would," he said. "This is our last game for the year and a big rivalry, and we have benn pushing our team hard to del'nnd against thmn and win." 
But eviHl though tlw l'yros havo the will to win, they still have to overeonw a tough oppo­rwnt in the l'urpln Weasels. Corning oil" a seornlnss ti11 against unbeatnn, untied McGlinn, tho 
ROWING GOlD GAME! 

Notre Dame Invitational 10/29@1:00pm At the NO Boathouse lwhere South Bend Ave. meets the St. Joe Riverl first 100 fans receive a Gold GamesT-shirt sponsored bv: 
~ 
•aurH ••Nil 
O"THG ..IIol.biC. 

Purple Weasels arc fired up to play this game. 
If Pasquerilla East wants to have a chance at beating the Purple Weasels, it will have to be able to move the ball against their defense, since Pasquerilla West's offense has shown to be suspect at times. 
The Purple Weasels also have to remember this game is impor­tant for their postseason rank­ing. 
"We have had a good season, and we really want to end on a good note going into the play­offs," Pasquerilla West junior Annie Brusky said. "This is a big rivalry and we feel we are going to dominate ... Even though we are already in, we are telling ourselves that we need to win this game." 
Welsh Fam vs. McGlinn 
Win and they're in. It's as sim­ple as that for the Welsh Family Whirlwinds as they square off with the unbeaten McGlinn Shamrocks Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Tho Whirlwinds are seeking to rebound from a loss before fall brnak to Farley. 
"We understand what we have to do, and we'rn making the nec­essary changns to beat McGlinn," Welsh Fam wide receiver Kelley Buslwlle said. 
The Whirlwinds will have a sizeable task ahead of them as they take on a Shamrock team that has yet to allow any oll'en­sive points all season. McGlinn quarterback Becky Brown was quick to boast of her defense's accomplishment. 
"Our defense has been strong all year," Brown said. "We haven't been scored upon all season and that stat says it all." 
The Shamrocks bring a 4-0-1 record to the game that, with a win, will give them the second seed in the playoffs. McGlinn has already clinched a playoff berth and does not have a pressing need or sense of urgency to win this game. However, Brown believes her team -after a sea­son of quality performances -is ready to take on the Whirlwinds in its finale. 
"Our offense has really pulled together over the course of the year and our defense has been consistently strong," Brown said. "We're pretty excited and a ready to have a good showing at the game." 
But defeating the Whirlwinds, who are playing for their playoff lives, will be no easy task. 
"They're a good team, and they always play really well," Brown said. "It's going to be a rnally good game." 
Despite the challenge ahead, the Whirlwinds are looking to step up against the Shamrocks and overcome any obstaele on their way to the playoffs. They know their path to the Stadium runs through McGlinn. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu and Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 
Jffi'N.([IDIIJJ 
I 

Friday Oct. 28 vs. Princeton at 1:30pm First1000 fans receive hockev pucks sponsored bV 
~3m 

Sundav Oct. 30 vs. Cincinnati at 12:30pm First300 fans will receive NO Piuuv banks sponsored bv 
( 
\ 
:\ 

ND CREW 
Irish keep busy with two n1eets intwo days 
Squad to host Invite Saturday then travel to Elkhart Sunday 
By TIM KAISER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will shake ofT some rust Saturday and com­pete in the Notre Dame Invitational at 1 p.m. -its first race since Oct. 9. It will then travel to Elkhart, Ind. Sunday for the Head of the Elk get all the way back to that by Sunday." 
Saturday, Michigan and Michigan State will come to town for the Notre Damn Invitational. 
"Michigan and Miehigan State are very good," Stone said. "Both had team bids to the NCMs last year, and both have shown very good spend this fall." 
Sunday's llead of the Elk will include rowers from 19 different programs -both regional midwestern schools, 
. and a few of 
Notre Damn's 

regatta. "J love the team. Big East rivals, 
Because the They're a great including West fall season of Virginia and
group who are
rowing is used recent confer­
mostly to pre­working hard. " ence additions pare for the Louisville and spring and the Cincinnati.
Martin Stone 
NCAA champi­I>espitn the
Irish coach
onships, the team was given fall break ol'f', unlike most other varsity athletes at the University. 
Despite their limited recent practices, head coach Martin Stone feels that his team is still in pretty good shape. 
"We took fall break ofT; we were out of the boats for 10 days," Stone said. "We'rn just getting our rhythm back. When they left we were in a good place, and we hope to 
lw.l.5 
Saturdav vs. Princeton at First500 fans rece 
trading cards toalt••••·~•n freshman hockey plave sponsored bV 
stilT eompetition, Stone has faith in his team. 
"I love the team," he said. "They're a groat group who are working hard to go fast ... The kids love to race, and they've got great antieipation for this race." 
The races this w1~nknnd will be fun, but then the team must continue to prepare for the upcoming spring season. 
"I think both days will lw some hard eornpntitive rac­ing," he said. "At the end of the weekend will we have a general idna of wlwrn we rank in the region and how we stack up against some our Big East foes ... Fall gives you a rough idea of whern you are, and then we don't race again until March, but the girls have done a good job this fall." 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 

Write Sports. Call Mike at 1..4543. 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday,October 28, 2005 
Sound a music major can love. At aprice a finance major can appreciate. 
Bose SoundDock™ digital music system. Enjoy Bose® sound in your room while charging your iPod, iPod mini or iPod photo. Louis Ramirez of The Washington Post says it "delivers crisp, room-filling sound with nice bass that doesn't distort at high volume." 

Bose@ sound for the way you listen. 
Whether it's music on your iPod~ your computer or MP3 COs­there's a Bose system for the way you listen. Get more of the passion of a guitar solo and the pulse of the rhythm section ­even at full volume. 
Special savings and student discounts. 
These systems are factory-renewed products that are available at a reduced 
·price. Each factory­renewed product has been re-tested; meets our strict quality standards and comes with a full warranty. Combine that with a student-only discount, and you can get bonus savings on Bose sound. 

Bose Companion® 3 computer speaker system. 
A unique circular control pod, two tiny speakers and a hideaway Acoustimass® module (not shown) give your music files sound that Mac Home says "is a shock to all who underestimate it." 
Bose Wave® music system. 
CNET says it "improves upon the original in both design and performance." Plays MP3 COs, includes FM/AM tuner/alarm clock and fits easily in a dorm or apartment. Jonathan Takiff of The Philadelphia Daily News says, "crank it up loud and this little jack is a giant killer. .. " 
To order or learn more, call today 
1-800-576-1942 
For more information 
www.bose.com/school 



OUND THE NATION 
Friday, October 28, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL NHL 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
LParn roeord OT points 
NY Rangers 4-3 3 11 
NY Islanders 5-4 2 10 
Philadelphia 4-2 1 9 
New Jersey 4-5 0 8 
Pittsburgh 0-4 5 5 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
lt~arn rfword OT points 
Montreal 7-2 0 14 Ottawa 6-1 0 12 Buffalo 6-3 0 12 Toronto 5·2 2 12 Boston 4-5 2 10 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
tnarn reeord OT points 
Carolina 6·2 1 13 Florida 6-4 0 12 Tampa Bay 5·3 2 12 Washington 4-6 0 8 
~~ H 0 6 
Western Conference, Central Division 
t!•<un record OT points 
Detroit 9·1 0 18 Nashville 8·0 1 17 Chicago 3-6 0 6 St. louis 2·5 2 6 Columbus 3·7 0 6 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
lllltlll t·ecord OT points Vancouver 8·1 17 Minnesota 5·4 11 Colorado 4·4 9 Calgary 4·6 9 Edmonton 3·6 7 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
tflatTI rncord OT points Associated Press night game since 1995. The Hokies, stuck in points coming. 
los Angeles 7·3 0 14 
The Eagles (6-2, 3-2) got third-place behind Texas The llokies now have
Dallas 5-3 1 11 
BLACKSBUHG, Va. them then, 20-14, but were and USC in the Bowl nine days to prepare for a
Anaheim 4-5 1 9 
Marcus Vick got back to dominated this time. Championship Series visit from No. 6 Miami on
San Jose 4·5 1 9 
being efficient, throwing Boston College came in standings, led 23-10 for Nov. 5.
Phoenix 4·6 1 9 
for 280 yards and a touch­allowing just 78 rushing most of the fourth quarter. On a chilly night at sold­
down with no turnovers. yards per game, fourth Then Vince Hall returned out Lane Stadium, the 
and No. 3 Virginia Tech best in the country, and the an interception 13 yards Hokies were held to field Men's Cross Country Top 20 won its 11th consecutive Ilokies got 212 using a for a touchdown with 3:16 goals on their first two 
game on a Thursday night, backfield by committee. left to punctuate the victo­drives, and trailed at homo
points 

beating No. 13 Boston The Eagles were seventh in ry. Quinton Porter was in for tho first time all season. 
1 Arkansas (12) 476 1 
College 30-10. overall defense, allowing the grasp of defensive end Porter made that happen
2 Wisconsin (4) 459 2 
Vick completed 22 of 28 just 272 yards per game, Darryl Tapp when he when he hit Will Blackmon 
3 Colorado 452 3 
passes a week after throw­and the Hokies rolled up threw the ball and Hall for a 29-yard TD early in
4 Stanford 432 5 
ing three interceptions in a 492 as the former Big East snatched it. the second quarter. 
5 NOTRE DAME 404 7 
28-9 victory at Maryland. members renewed their The play added a bit of A field goal by William
6 BYU 396 4 
Brandon Pace added three rivalry in the ACC. Beamerball to the victory, Troost in the third quarter
7 Arizona 395 6 
short field goals for the The Eagles, in their first but this one was more got the Eagles within 20­
8 Florida 354 13 
llokies (8-0, 5-0 Atlantic season in the ACC, finished about efficiency on oll'enso 1 0, but Pace answnred that.
9 Georgetown 342 12 
Coast Conference), who with only 184 yards, 59 and defense, and the abili­with a 31-yarder. lie also
10 UTEP 337 11 
have not lost a Thursday after halftime. ty of Pace to keep the hit from 26 and 32 yards.
11 Iowa 307 14 
12 Texas 293 9 

13  Kansa  285  28  
14 15  Dartmouth Portland  264 252  22 16  IN BRIEF  
16 William & Mary 250 '15 17 Michigan 212 19 18 VIrginia 211 29 19 Florida State 161 17 20 Alabama 156 around the dial  World Series is lowest-rated in baseball history NEW YORK -The Chicago White Sox's first world championship in 88 years was also the lowest-rated World Series ever. Chicago's four-game sweep of the Houston Astros averaged an 11.1 national rating with a 19 share on Fox. That's down about 7 percent from the previous low, an 11.9 with a 20 share for the 2002 World Series  QFOgrams on their re~ectiye nights.Hyers earn OT w1n over Panthers with late comeback PHILADELPHIA-Peter Forsberg tied the game in the final minute of regulation and Joni Pitkanen scored early in overtime to lead the Philadelphia Flyers to a 5-4 win over the Florida Panthers on Thursday night. Only 49 seconds away from their second straight loss, Forsberg instead  NCAA proposes rewardingacadeiDlc achievement INDIANAPOLIS -The NCAA wants to reward aeademie achieve­ment with money. The committee on academic per­formance Thursday recommended establishing a $10 million annual incentive fund that will pay schools with teams that consistently exeel or demonstrate signilkant improvement in the classroom.  
NBA New Jersey at New York 7:00p.m., ESPN  bntween the Anaheim Angels and the San Francisco Giants. While the 2002 World Series, which went seven games, rated high­er overall, it was only averaging an  picked a perfect time to score his first goal of the season. After missing a penalty shot that could have tied it minutes earlier, Forsberg knocked one past Hoberto Luongo after the  Details, such as standards and a limeline for when money would start being disbursed, have not yet been worked out. But the program's blue­print ealls for schools to receivn  
NCAA FOOTBALL Colorado State vs. New Mexico  11.0 through four games. This year was a drop of almost 30 percent from last year's series, in  Flyers pulled goalie Hobert Esche. Forsberg, the free-agent center that was the centerpiece of a major  rewards of up to $100,000. "The board continues to be very interested in moving academic  
8:00p.m., ESPN2  which the Boston Hed Sox swept the St. Louis Cardinals for their first title  roster reshuffling, pumped his lists and was mobbed by his teammates.  reform forward and making the incentives package specil1c," NCAA  
PGA Chrysler Championship: 2nd Round 3:00 p.m., USA  in 86 years. That had a 15.8 rating with a 25 share. Despite rating so low in compari­son to other World Series, the four  The celebration resumed 1:13 into overtime when Pitkanen scored from the left side. Nathan Horton, Olli Jokinen and  President Myles Brand said during a eonfernnce call Thursday. The proposal is expectnd to be diseussnd again in January or April,  
games of this series were each the  Kristian lluselius each scored power­ when the NCAA's executive eomrnit·  
highest rated prime-time network  play goals for the Panthers.  tee and board of directors next meet.  

Friday, October 28, 2005 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
MEN'S SOCCER
SMC SOCCER 

Irish slate to end against Seton Hall 
Tri-State wants to 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 

trap Saint Mary's 
Despite a tough 3-0 loss at 

Belles need to capture pair ofgames to finish season, complete goals 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

Two games remain -two games in which to secure their place in the record books. 
The Belles are just a pair of wins away from the never­before-reached 
of 10 

break road trip, the Irish are
plateau 

"/ hope we bring a 
coming off a heartbreaking loss to
conference wins their opponent. 
and a third-place little more energy They will con­
No. 5 Indiana. 

"There's a lot of very sound
finish at season's than what we tinue to play the 
performances -I thought there
e.nd. Despite a high-energy,
demonstrated
close 1-0 win nonstop style 
were some excellent performanc­
over Adrian [against Adrian}.,, that they have 
es," Clark said. "The lads stuck to 
their task, it was a pity because it 
Wednesday, the produced solid 
was a great soccer night in South 
team and its sec­results with all
Caryn Mackenzie 
ond-year coach year. Mackenzie 
Bend with 2,500 people at the
Belles coach 
feel they have the right stuff to accomplish the task. 

"I think we understand what is expected, in terms of finishing out our last few games," Saint Mary's coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "It is just a matter of us mentally locking in on that." 
The first of the remaining games begins at noon Saturday when the Belles travel to take on the Tri-State Thunder. The Thunder have struggled thus far, earning no wins in conference play and three wins overall. They have only managed to find the back of the net on eight occasions, while surrendering 72 goals. 
But Tri-State has experi­enced a resurgence of sorts in their last few contests. The Thunder defeated non-confer­ence opponent Anderson 3-0 and followed it up with a near win against Kalamazoo, falling 3-2. 
Kalamazoo quickly got up 3­0, but Tri-State fought back with two unanswered goals. However, time ran out before the Thunder could complete the comeback. 
But Kalamazoo is no pushover. The Belles lost to Kalamazoo 1-0 in an early season contest; a result that the Saint Mary's players felt should have turned out differ­ently. 
That game was not the only one that the Belles felt should have finished with a more favorable outcome. 
In their last game the Belles avoided defeat with a narrow 1-0 margin of victory over a weak Adrian team. Mackenzie attributed the close final score to the fact that her team played down to its opponent's level. 
"I hope that we bring a little 
home on Wednesday, the Irish 
more energy than what we 
are prepared to bounce back and 
demonstrated [against 
honor their seniors in the final 
Adrian]," Mackenzie said. 
regular-season game against 
"We have not played two 
Seton Hall Saturday at 7 p.m. at 
games back to back with low 
Alumni Field. 

energy. We were coming off of 
A<>ide from being the final regu­
an emotional downer to 
lar-season game, playing Seton 
Calvin game [a 1-0 loss], and 
Hall has important consequences 
we knew Adrian wasn't going 
for the postseason. 

to push us hard." 
"They've won five games in a 
When the Belles and 

row so it's going to be an excel­
Thunder met for the first time 
lent test for us," Notre Dame 
this year, on Saint Mary's 
coach Bobby Clark said. 

field, the Belles walked off 
The Irish are now 9-6-2 overall 
with a 9-1 defeat in hand. But 
with a 5-4-1 record in Big East 
that has not led Mackenzie 
play. After winning the final two 
and her team to 

games of their weeklong fall 
underestimate 
hopes to see her 
game-great atmosphere." teain be the 

The team must rebound quick­squad that challenged top­
ly to pick up a crucial win against ranked Calvin and won eight 
Seton Hall to close out the regular conference games on 
season. Saturday. 
"[A win] will be good for seed­"Hopefully the other Saint 
ing," Clark said. "It will also be Mary's team shows up," she 
important because if we can win said. 
that game and win a few games in the tournament ... It puts us in Contact Kyle Cassity at 
for an at-large bid to the NCAAs." kcassily@nd.edu 
Seton Hall is 11-2-2 (5-2-2 Big East), with the third-best scoring offense in the country, averaging 


3.08 goals per game. 

The Pirates knocked Notre Dame out of the Big East tourna­ment last year, advancing 8-7 on penalty kicks. Notre Dame won the regular-season matchup 1-0 in 2004. 
Clark said the Irish have moved on from their loss on Wednesday. 
"We were at practice today and everybody's great," Clark said. "I think it's one of these things that you have no choice ... you've got to move on whether it's success or failure." 
Aside from the importance of the game, it's a ehance for the team to honor its seniors. 
"We always present flowers to the seniors on the last home game," Clark said. "We get a pic­ture, we take a picture of all of them together with Mary Ann [Spence, the team's academic advisor] that they get at the ban­quet." 
The seniors have filled impor­tant leadership roles in a difficult rebuilding year for Notre Dame. 
"The seniors have been superb," Clark said. "Some of them, like Benny Crouse, have played pretty mueh every minute ... then Ikeeper Justin Michaud] has been an absolute superb backup in every regard. 
"Of course the ones who have played -Tony Megna, John Stephens -have been excellent." 
For one senior, it was a disap­pointing season due to injury. 
"The one I feel sorry for is Dale Rellas," Clark said. "Dale obvious­ly was playing and then he kept picking up injuries, but he still stays very much involved and has been a very good captain." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

INTERDISCIPLINARY CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF BIOCOMPLEXITY 
(Jniversity ofNotre Dame 
Fublic Lecture 
Dr. Alan Perelson Theoretical Division Los Alamos National Laboratory 
New Developments in Modeling the Dynamics of Virollnfections 
Saturday October 29, 2005 -6:30PM 102 DeBartolo Hall -University of Notre Dame 
Abstract: 

I will present a general overview ofthe problem ofmodeling viral infections in vivo. The point ofview that I will take is that 1nodels should be useful for giv­
ERASMus BooKs 
o 
Used Books bought and sold 

o 
25 Categories of Books 

o 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

o 
Out-of-Print search service 

o 
Appraisals large and small 



OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
ing insights into the treatment ofhuman disease. From this perspective, I will discuss two examples: HIV infection and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. I will show how viral dynamic models can provide insights into both the basic biological processes underlyling infection as well as treatment with drug or vaccine. I will also discuss aspects ofthe immune response to these infections. 
Friday, October 28, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's falls in 5th-place fight 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Wrircr 
Watching Saint Mary's battle Albion in Thursday's regular sea­son finale, the average fan may have thought the two tnams were batUing lilr a eonl(~rence title. 
In reality thn teams were light­ing for filth plaen in the MIM. 
Despite a strong effort, the Bdlns fell to i\lbion in three grunl­ing games 30-27, 33-31 and 36­
:~4. 
Belles coach Julie Schroeder­Bink eomplimnnted Albion on the loam's ability to play at the top of iL<> game at a erueial point in the season. 
"That was the best I've seen Albion play," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Albion eame out strong and dic­l.atnd play throughout mueh of the first two games. Sehroeder-Biek thought her team played well enough to eompete, but couldn't reach to the next levnl to get the win. 
"We were definitely chasing them much of those first two games," she said. "We know we could play better." 
Service errors and difficulty with serve reception also added to the Belles' woes narly in the match. 
Albion carried the momentum into the third game and jumped out to a 13-2 lead. The Belles seemed destined for quick defeat in the third until Marisa Gross provided a much-needed spark ofl' the bench. The sophomore entered and served the Belles to 10 straight points following the side out to knot the third game at 13 apiece. 
"Marisa really sparked us again tonight. She really brought our team together out there," Schroeder-Biek said. 
The teams battled point for point the rest of the way before i\lbion won the final two points to daim the marathon game. 
Schroeder-Hick put the loss in pnrspective. 
"It was just two teams lighting for lifth place," she said. "It took a lot ofstamina and we played hard, we just didn't get the result we wanted." 
The loss snapped a five-game conference-losing streak for Albion and marked the second time this year that the Belles fbll at ' the hands of the Britons. Saint Mary's lost a live-game decision to Albion on Oct. 8. 
Kristen Playko led the Belles' offense with 16 kills and also added 15 digs. Shelly Bender had 1 0 kills and 11 digs. Anne Cusack led the defense with 21 digs and Michelle Turley led Saint Mary's in assists with 33. 
The loss dropped Saint Mary's to No. 6 in the MIM behind Albion. The Belles' 5-11 conference record matches their mark from last season when they finished No. 7. 
The Belles will turn their atten­tion to the MIAA tournament next week where they will most likely face Alma in a first-round match Tuesday. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer I @nd.edu 

--SUPPORT THE TROOPS-­CHRISTMAS PACKAGE DRIVE (BEGINS Nov14TH) SPONSORED BY NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTING ASSOCIATION PLEASE SUBMIT NAMES AND LOCATIONS OF SOLDIERS OVERSEAS! Contact rzarah@nd.edu  
BUSINESSINMEDICINE CAREERForum discover your future in healthcare. Featuring panelist speakers: Rudolph Navari, M.D., Ph.D Keynote Speaker Dan Neufelder Chiefof Operations, Memorial Ho~pital Larry Whiteside Financial Analyst, Bristol-Myers Mark Lavallee, M.D. Sports Medicine, Memorial Hospital ...and others Tuesday, November ]51 , 2005 DeBartolo Hall lOt, 7pm-9pm (Breakout sessions to follow) come learn where your degree can take you in the largest industry ofthe future  

HOCKEY 

Irish will match· wits with Tigers 

By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The CCHA season slate is a grueling and cutthroat marathon with the likes of perennial pow­erhouses Michigan, Michigan State and Ohio State eontending for a title every year. But before the Irish must face these rivals, they have one more tune-up to get a feel for each other. 
The Irish will host a two-game non-conference regular season series with the Princeton Tigers today and Saturday at the Joyce Center. The puck will drop at 7:35p.m. and 7:05p.m., respec­tively. 
Notre Dame (0-2-0) last played Princeton in 2001 in New Jersey and came home with two wins, by margins of 2-1 and 4-2. The lifetime series between the two schools stands at a 9-2 Princeton edge. 
The Irish are coming off a tough western expedition last weekend, where the icers f'aeed No. 4 Colorado College and No. 9 Denver, losing 3-1 and 6-3. 
Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson wants to see his team focus this weekend on its spr~dal teams game. The team gave up two shorthanded goals to defending national champion Denver, but went 2-for-8 on the power play, an excellent 25-per­ccnt conversion rate. 
Jackson felt Denver picked apart the Irish penalty kill and has worked to fix the unit in practice. He hopes to see his team create a more successful flow on these man-down and man-advantage situations. Puck control and protection remains a key tenant in Jackson's mind fi:lf dealing with the Tigr~rs. 
"Princeton is a real feisty tnam that is going to play really hard," he said. "They're a bit of a tran­sition team, where they will force you into making turnovnrs. They'll trap you in the turnovers and then they'll be explosive coming baek at you." 
Luckily for Jackson, his team is starting to form to his prcsna­son expectations. 
The lirst-year coach has fimnd a role model for the rest of the team in the line of freshman Erik Condra, sophomore Evan Rankin and junior Josh Sciba. Condra had three assists and Sciba scornd in the 6-3 loss to Denver. The trifecta has run Jackson's system to perfection, and in his opinion has fared the best for it. 
"The Sciba line has an identity to it," he said. "They skate, they pass, they're very tenacious, they read oil' of each othnr very well, and they execute the sys­tem real well." 
Notes: 

+The Irish took to the iee la<>t weekend in Colorado wearing gold helmets for the first time since the 1975-7 6 season. The helmets arc painted with the same gold metallic paint found on the helmeL<> worn by the liJOt­ball team. Irish equipment man­ager Dave Gilbert worked out a deal with Bauer to produce the Golden Dome-tinted hardware. They will feature a white eagc and an American flag on the back portion. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Special Saturday Sale At NDSurplus 
Saturday, October 29th 
8:00a.m. -Noon 
925 N. Eddy St. 
(next to Robinson Learning Center) 
Desks, file cabinets, dressers, night stands, computers, moni­tors, chairs, & much more. In­ Normal Hours of  
ventory changes weekly. Go to the NDSurplus website,  Operation  
buy.nd.edu/surplus, for a cur­ Thursdays  
rent inventory list. Call Frank  11:30 a.m.-3:00p.m.  
Parker at 631-7026 for more  
infonnation.  

Cash or check. Items must be removed the day of the sa/e. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 28, 2005 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
·Irish have back-to-back llleets against stiff colllpetition 
Notre Dame faces No. 10 California Bears at Rolfs today and Purdue Boilermakers in West Lafayette Saturday 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Following their season-open­ing victory in the Dennis Starks Relays, the Irish will be back in action this weekend with back­to-hack meets. 
The first begins tonight at 5 
p.m. against California Berkeley in the Holf's Aquatic Center. After having three weeks to reflect on the Stark Relays, the Irish will only have one night between their second and third meets as they leave immediately for Purdue for a Saturday meet with the Boilermakers. 
But Notre Dame coach Carrie Nixon doesn't seem concerned with the close proximity of this weekend's meets. 
"Our championship meets are three or four days long, so we try to do as many double 
Coach 
continued from page 20 
season. She was tabbed in April to replace women's swim­ming coach Bailey Weathers, who resigned in March. 
Nixon, who is the first female Notre Dame graduate to come back as a coach, com­peted on four Big East Championship teams (and had a medical redshirt during a fifth) while earning All­American honors twice. Nixon joins Knute Rockne, track leg­end Alex Wilson and Elmer Layden, a member of the Four Horseman, as the only multi­ple-time All-Americans to coach at Notre Dame. 
Nixon said she tries to avoid focusing on the company her All-American-turned-coach status gives her. 
"I try not to think about it too much because it freaks me out a little bit," she said. "I mean, it puts me in the same category as Knute Rockne and that's kind of crazy, but I'm doing my best to live up to it." 

meets as we can," she said. While Purdue doesn't possess "With Purdue being so close, the same talent level as it's not a far drive for us. It's California, the Irish will be just not too hard in terms of physi­as excited for Saturday's meet. cal exhaustion." "Obviously Purdue is a huge 
While the travel may not be rival," Nixon said. "California difficult this weekend for the is a nice bonus because they're 
team, the competi­ coming out here to  
tion likely will. California finished No. 9 at the NCAA  "One ofour top team goal~ is to be  visit us, but Purdue is an annu­al thing, something  
championship last  a top-10 team.,,  the girls look for­ 
season, and it cur­ ward  to  every  
rently holds the world record in the 100-meter  Carrie Nixon Irish coach  year." As this  for results weekend,  


breast stroke. 
"We're looking forward to racing them," Nixon said. "One of our team goals is to be a top-1 0 team, in order to do that you have to know what top ten teams are like. I think we have a good shot at winning if we can take advantage of some opportunities and swim our best." 
Nixon's love of coaching began during her years at Notre Dame. 
"Nixon missed the 2000-01 season with a shoulder injury. She credits that year as the time she first learned how to coach at the collegiate level. 
"The year I was out, my sen­ior year, while I had a shoulder injury, I was basically a coach," she said. 
At 27 years of age, Nixon is only three seasons removed from her last year on the Irish roster. 
After graduating and com­pleting her fifth year on the swim team, she took a job as an assistant coach at Clemson. There she helped the Tiger men to their best season since 1952 and the women to their highest win total in 15 years. 
After only one season, Weathers hired her as an assis­tant at Notre Dame. Working with some of her former team­mates, Nixon saw the Irish win yet another Big East title. 
In April, Weathers retired and, after an extensive search, Nixon said Athletic Director Kevin White decided to pro-

Volkswagen Credit seeks outstanding candidates to interview. 
We're looking for high-caliber college graduates for our College Graduate In-Training Program. Yes, that means you. It's on outstanding opportunily to learn the automotive finance industry and grow with one of America's leading brands. 
Interested? Apply on "Go IRISH" by November 3, 2005 to be considered for an on-campus interview. 


VW Cred~. Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/DN. 
Nixon likes her team's chances. 
"We match up very closely against California in the breaststroke events," she said. "And versus Purdue, we match up very well in the freestyle events." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
mote from within. 
"There were a lot of inter­views, but at the end of all of it the athletic department and I sat down and the conclusion we came to was that we need­ed to build it from the inside out," Nixon said. 
Nixon said she's excited for the opportunity to continue the recent Irish success. 
"It's exciting. I have a lot to give them," Nixon said. "It's an invaluable thing to be at Notre Dame. It's a special place and you understand that better as an insider rather than someone coming in." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Proprietors Warren & Linda 
?irs/ Or~9ina!r:Azza in Joron/ 
Since 1951 

Specializing in Italian Entrees Tues.• Thur~.: S:OO PM -11;00 PM Fri.· ~at.: 5:00PM-1:00AM 
537 North St. Louis • South Bend, IN 
574-233-24(,4 


Saint Mazy's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME " INDIANA 
Educating Women, Transforming Lives 

Join us for discussion as an interdisciplinary panel addr·esses the First Year Theme of "Who Counts in the U.S./Who Counts in the Americas?" 
Wlio Counts? 
Who Counts in the Americas? Tuesday, November 1, 2005 7pm, Carroll Auditorium Guest Speakers 

Brenda Cardenas Professor of English, Milwaukee Area Technical College; Chicana poet with deep Chicago roots, author of the poetry collection From the Tongues()_{Brick and Stone. 
Maurice Kilwein Guevara vrr>tP<,cor of English, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee; Colombian-born poet, playwright translator; his works include Poems (?(the River Spirit and utobiography ofSo-and-so. 

Betsy Hartmann Director ofthe Population and Development Program at Hampshire College; author of Reproductive Rights and Wrongs: The Global Politics (?fPopulation Control and a novel, The Truth about Fire. 
Maria Riley, OP of the Center of Concern's Global Women's Project; an Adrian Dominican ister, she helped launch the International Gender and Trade Network, and is author of 
Seeks Her Way: Liberating the Power ofWomen's Spirituality. 

An audience Q & A will follow panelists' presentations: a reception and book signing will close the event. 
Sponsored by the Writing Proficiency Program. with the support of the Center for Academic Innovation and the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership. 

Friday, October 28, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Notre Dame hopes to bomb Big East in Bronx 
ish at the Pro-National Meet in alsl," Smyth said. "We wern in dif­By CHRIS KHOREY Term llautn, Ind. Oct. 15. fnront races, but if you scored
Spons Writer 

"We know Georgetown is going [pro-nationals! as one meet we 
Af'tPr not venturing ouL<;ido tho to be out thorn and we know would have beaten them." state of Indiana during its first Providence is going to be out For the No. 4 women, this f'our nwets this soason, Notre thorn," runner Patrick Smyth year's Big East Championships Danw will travol to Van Cortlandt said. "Wo just have to get out rnprnsent an opportunity to earn Park in Tlw Bronx, New York this thoro and run like we've been rndomption after they worn upset wenkend for the Big East running and try to get as many by Providence last year. The No. ( :hampionships. pnople in the top 15 as wn can." 16 Friars will once again provide 
The No. 5 Irish men. who tho Smyth said that although tho still' competition for the Irish. won llw eonli!rnnee last year by Irish and lloyas eompotod in sep­Women's !wad coach Tim orw point over eurront No. 9 arate races in Torre llauto, the Connelly will send a familiar line­Cleorgetown. are looking to get a Irish had a botter time. up to the course. All-Americans boost f'rorn tlwir semnd-place lin-"We boat thom at pre-1 nation-Stephanip, Madia and Molly 
FLY FOR FREE NEXT WEEK! 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out wllat it's really like. 
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to Notre Dame on Tuesday, Nov. I, to take you on trial fligllts. 
Get in the air. We're looking for a few college students wllo !lave Get some information. the smarts, skills and interest to be a Marine pilot. The flight is on us. 
CONlACr YoiiR MARJNr CORPS OIFICf:R SEU:CTION TLAM 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY! 
Capt. Barclay or Gunnery Sgt. Templeton 
765-479-1275 
OSOLAF@MARINES.USMC.MIL MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 


MARINEOPFICER.COM 
200~ 

Huddfp, will probably bn the front runners, with Sunni Olding and freshman snnsation Hamsny Kavan dose b<1hind. 
A<; with previous mn<1ts. tho fifth spot will be a question mark for the Irish. Jean Marinangeli was thfl fifth runner for Notrn Damn at the pre-nationals, but she Iinishnd No. 76, 46 placns bPI1ind Kavan. 
The men will limturn their vnt­eran lineup for only thn second time this season. The first tirnn Kurt Benninger, Tim Moore, Kalp,b Van Ort and Soan O'Dorwll ran together this snason -tlw pre-national meet -the Irish took seeond plaen. 
Thn Big East Championships roprnsent the point in thn snason whnn the Irish traditionally start. 
to look ahead to rngionals and nationals. Moore bnlievns with so many oxporinncml runners, this ynat·'s Notrn Damn men arn rnady to rnako a run beyond tho Big East. The tnam finished a disap­pointing No. 11 at last yoar's NCAA Championships. 
"We havn high goals at nation­als and we've Iearnod from the disaster that was last ynar," Moorn said. "This ynar wn'n~ a strongm· tnarn. Wn havn bw;kally the samn top livn bar.k. although !Smyth's! bnnn !wiping out a littk bit. Wn also havn thn bittnr tastn of scrnwing up at nationals last ynar and wp'rn a ynar stronw~r." 
Contact Chris Khorcy at ckhorey@nd.cdu 

ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine

---···L--+-•
.!'.;..'e>----···
Open: Tues.-Sat. Jlam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. and Mon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
---------<1>-·:··:..~--------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 'We are located in Rosdand area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 

Let IIU®J{ (jjll\'DLN'® Make Halli>w~~tt Special with some 800-tiful gifts: 
ca~~!S:qwm ~ 
NI.::> SMC 1--:IC<:. 
Friday, October 28, 2005 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Rotate 
continued from page 24 
Chase Anastasio and even start­ing cornerback Ambrose Wooden, I lord joined the multi­tude of contributors Saturday on a special teams unit that wel­comes the second bye week. 
"It's a great opportunity to get back to techniques and funda­mentals, work on skills and less scheming and less 'this is the looks we're going to see this week," Polian said Thursday.· "Let's go back to correcting foot­work and working on blocking and running and tackling tech­nique. Let's get back to basics." 
As Weis mentioned Monday, Thursday's practice was dedicat­ed as a "special teams day" to teach fundamentals to "both the first and second guys." 
Twenty-five players on Notre Dame's roster have seen their first Division-! football action this season, and special teams has been their primary outlet as coaches take looks at younger talent. 
Defensive lineman Casey Cullen and defensive backs Tcrrail Lambert and Ray Herring, to name a few, have seen significant action on special teams. And Hord, with the announcement that wide receiv­er Rhema McKnight will sit out the remainder of the season, could even crack the receiver rotation if it fits in the game plan, Weis said. 
"D.J. has given us a reason to be out there," Weis said. "Offensively, he played a little bit 
Match 
continued from page 24 
well. 
"It will be fun to look at some tape and then come up with a plan and be able to just get out and play again against a very, very good team." 
Sunday's match against the Bearcats will be tel­
evised by ESPNU ­
"We know what's 
the first match ever 
at stake. It's going 
to be televised live from the Joyce to be great." Center. 
While it could be 

Debbie Brown 
easy to get pumped 
Irish coach 
up for Louisville and forget about Sunday's match, Brown knows her team can't and won't do that. The Bearcats are a solid volleyball team. They lost to Louisville 30-26, 17-30, 26-30, 28-30 earlier this season. 
With such a huge weekend ahead considering the Big East regular season race, Brown says her team will be more than ready. 
"The team will be motivated in that game. You might not even have noticed, but he was in there at the end of the game. But in that game plan, [Hord] got plenty of reps in practice last week with the possibility of him playing." 

Landri resting, healthy 
Defensive tackle Derek Landri hobbled into the locker room after injuring himself in the sec­ond half last Saturday. But he returned to the sidelines. 
"He was ready to go," Weis said. "For a time I thought that he was done. Next thing you know, I turned around, he was out there, sitting there ready to go. We fortunately came out of this game with very few things, nothing that was really signifi­cant and that's a good thing. No surprises." 
Hoyte is Lott quarter-finalist 
Irish linebacker Brandon Hoyte was named a quarter-finalist for the second annual Lott Trophy on Thursday. 
The award, which honors the Defensive IMPACT Player of the Year, is presented to a student­athlete by the IMPACT Foundation of The Pacific Club in Newport Beach, Ca. 
The Lott Trophy, named after legendary defensive back Ronnie Lott, honors a football player's on-and off-field performance. Georgia All-American defensive end David Pollack won the tro­phy last season in its first year. 
Hoyte (5-foot-11, 231 pounds) is Notre Dame's defensive cap­tain, leads the team with 56 tack­les (33 solo) and has a 3.35 GPA. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
for sure," she said. "I don't think there's anything we need to do. There's going to be plenty of motivation. We know what's at stake. It's going to be great." 
Sophomore outside hitter and CVU.com National Player of the Week Adrianna Stasiuk agrees with her coach. 
"I think everyone's really excited," she said. "Everyone on 
the team is really into it. 
Everyone's giving 
100 percent." 
"The energy level 
is  really  high.  
We're  all  really  
pumped."  

This weekend the Irish will get the ultimate test. 
"Oh yeah, for 

sure," Stasiuk said when asked if the Irish, despite sitting at 18­1 and 8-0 in the Big East, still have something to prove to the country and to the coaches who vote in the polls. "We definitely have something to prove. We always have something to prove no matter what." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
Quarters 
continued from page 24 
Morrissey's defense has han­dled that pressure better than a Kohler shower faucet, holding the opposition to 26 points and creating crucial turnovers that led to victories against O'Neill and Stanford. 
Siegfried's defense, on the other hand, has been nothing short of dominant. The Ramblers allowed only one touchdown-an 18-yard pass in a week two loss to Carroll ­in the regular season and in their last game pushed St. Ed's around for negative-1 0 yards of total offense. 
"The strong point of our team has been our defense. We've only given up six points, so we've been pretty solid all year -it's a solid group of guys there," Siegfried co-captain Kyle Reis said. "I guess the only thing we've been working on is the timing of our offense." 
Like Morrissey, the Hamblers favor a run-heavy offense that eats up clock, but touchdown dances have been few and far between for a team that scored only 29 points in four games. In fact, most of Siegfried's points have come courtesy of the long leg of kicker Pablo Nava. 
"Having him is huge, especial­ly with our offense not doing as well as hoped," said Martin of Nava, who kicked a 47-yard field goal against Stanford. "It's nice knowing that instead of just having to go for it on fourth­and-long from the 30, we can take three points." 
Still, the outcome will likely come down to who wants it more. 
"Obviously we want our sea­son to not end at this point," Klein said. 
Siegfried, however, has found some motivation in the death of a friend. 
"Just this season our name­sake Hay Siegfried passed away, and last game we dedicated the game to him," Rambler Ryan Reis said. "But really this whole season is dedicated to him and we'd like to win for him and the whole Siegfried family." 
O'Neill vs. Zahm 
The No. 8 seed Angry Mob of O'Neill (2-2) will try to become the first team to knock off unde­feated, No. 1 seed Zahm (4-0) Sunday at Riehle Field in the first round of Men's Interhall playoffs. 
Zahm running back Theo Ossei-Anto believes his team's unblemished record doesn't mean anything anymore. 
"At practice on Monday, we said, 'OK, we finished 4-0, but that's the last time we're going to mention it," he said. "This is the playoffs and it's win or go home. Our record doesn't mat­ter now." 
"This week at practice we've gone back to the basics and went over what we've done all year," he said. 
Captain Pat Gourdy seconded Anto's remarks but was disap­pointed in his team's turnout. 
"We've had a lot of trouble getting people to practice," he said. 
Anto is the main running baek and is always a threat to gain a lot of yardage. Against St. Ed's, he rushed for 175 yards. Quarterbaek Stan Wieland and receiver Jake Richardville lead the air assault. 
"We are very versatile and can pass and run well," Anto said. 
Both Gourdy and Anto said that the main ingredient to Zahm's success has been the defensive line, anchored by Bob McQuiston. 
"If they're doing well, every­one does well," Anto said. "I play safety and it's always nice on a pass play to turn around and see that the quarterback has been sacked." 
The victor will go on to play the winner of Siegfried and Morrissey. 
Sorin vs. Keenan 
Sorin captain Pete Lavorini is confident in his team's ability to upset Keenan this Sunday at 2 
p.m. in the opening round of the Men's Interhall playoffs. So con­fident he stole a page out of leg­endary NFL quarterback Joe Namath's playbook by guaran­teeing the upset of the defending champion Knights. 
When asked if he could guar­antee a victory, Lavorini responded affirmatively. 
"Yeah, I think I will," he said. 'Til guarantee a win this week­end." 
The Otters come into the post­season with a 2-2 record in the Blue league. The 'team's two losses came in a 10-0 defensive battle with Siegfried and a showdown with undefeated and top-ranked Zahm. The team started off the season with a close victory over St. Ed's, sneaking away with a 6-0 win on· a 40-yard touchdown pass in the second half from quarter­back Stu Mora. Mora's two favorite targets, Kevin Tooke and Chris Paley, will be expect­ed to step up big for Sorin against the Knights. 
The team's second win of the season was another shutout, as they defeated Fisher by a score of 7-0. With two shutouts and a total of 22 points given up all season, it is clear that Sorin builds it success from defense. 
"Defense is our forte, we have brought the pain all year and we are ready for whatever Keenan throws at us." Lavorini said. The team will need that nasty defensive attitude if they hope to defeat Keenan as its offense has only been able to produce two touchdowns all season. 
Keenan has also played solid defense throughout the year en route to their 3-1 record, which earned them the No. 2 seed. The team's only loss came against the Big Red of Dillon in the sea­son's second week. 
Sorin will need to come out and play its best football this Sunday to upset the Knights and end their hopes of a repeat championship. As far as the Lavorini guarantee, Lyzinski spoke for his team by saying, "We'll see who guarantees what on Sunday afternoon." 
Carroll vs. Dillon 
Dillon will try to upnnd No. 3 Carroll at 2 p.m. Sunday at Riehle Fields, with Carroll play­ing as the home team due to il'i superior seeding over the No. 6 Big Red. 
The Vermin went 3-1 in the regular season, losing their ftrst game by two points to Zahm and winning the rest. 
"We wanted to go 4-0, but we shook the loss to Zahm off and we're ready for a tough run to the championship," Carroll receiver Paul Tassari said. "Anytime you need to beat two big dorms from the Gold division it's going to be hard, but we think we can do it. We have a lot of momentum and have been praeticing all week." 
Tassari is integral to the team's air attack, with six touch­down catches on the season. Dillon's Gold League play means its record of 2-2, with wins against Keenan and Morissey and losses to Alumni and Stanford, does not necessarily indicate it is a weaker team than Carroll, which plays in the Blue League of smaller dorms. 
The Big Red earned their wins with a relentless clock-consum­ing rushing game 
"It's going to be a tough task to stop," Carroll coach John Tira said. "They're going to score their points and we'll score ours. Compliments to them and their season, but we think we can hold our own. We'll be more creative with our defensive schemes, running everything from a 3-5 to a 6-2." 
The Vermin plan to keep Dillon's defense on its heels with a passing game that was suc­cessful in the regular season. 
"We've had a: few intercep­tions, but some bad tip plays also," Dillon captain and offen­sive guard Romeo Acosta said. "Overall, our secondary is as strong as any dorm's. We're going to focus on getting pres­sure on the quarterback and forcing bad throws." The target of that pressure will be quarter­back and captain Kory Wilmot, who tossed touchdowns to six different receivers this season. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu, Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu, Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu and Ben Vincent at bvincent@nd.edu 

Scorers 
continued from page 24 
help their seeding in the NCAA Tournament. 
After Notre Dame's victory over Georgetown Sunday, Waldrum said his team is hoping to win the Big East tournament this year but only so much as it helps its chances to reach the College Cup. 
"Our focus [isl on the NCAA Tournament," he said. 
Waldrum's team lost the 2004 Big East linal to Connecticut, 2­1, but went on to win its six NCAA tournament games with solid defensive performances, giving up just 2 goals in those contests. 
The Irish enter the conference tournament this year with more offensive firepower and a more diversified attack than last year. 
Because of the addition of freshman forwards Kerri Hanks and Brittany Bock to the efficient tandem of Katie Thorlakson and Amanda Cinalli, Waldrum said he thinks his team will be tougher to stop in this year's conference tournament. 
"I think they're all going to have huge impact offensively," he said about his four top-scor­ing forwards. "Different teams are going to have different gameplans to play against not only Katie but also Hanks and Cinalli and Brittany." 
Thorlakson and Hanks became the first 50-point scoring duo since 2000 during Notre Dame's win over Georgetown Sunday. 
In the 2004 postseason, Thorlakson scored or assisted on 18 of Notre Dame's 22 goals en route to its second national championship. 
Waldrum said he doesn't expect that kind of dominating performance from any of his players, only because the Irish have too many offensive weapons to keep the others from finding the net. 

"I don't know if any one of our weapons will have [a perform­ance like Thorlakson's in 20041," he said. 
But he added a caveat. 

"If Katie wants to score 18 of our next 22, I'm more than OK with that." 
Though the diversified Irish offense and extra attention from opposing defenses may prevent her from putting up numbers like she did last year, Thorlakson said she is ready for another playofl' run. 
"I think I am Iin as good shape I this year [as last year]," she said after Sunday's 6-1 victory. 
Waldrum said that Thorlakson 

and the Irish have practiced well 
leading up to the quarterfinal 
match. 
"The intensity level of training 

has been very good," he said. 
"The focus of it has been very 
good." 
He said that bodes well for 

Sunday's game against 
Georgetown. 
"As long as we're focused ... 

we're going to be in good shape," 
Waldrum said. "It's just a matter · of executing the game plan." 
Contact Ken Fowler kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Friday, October 28, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 .. 

ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JUMBLEJOCKULAR 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GLIBE 
rJ 1 b
<l.Y.1005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NORPE 
1 
rJ 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
PLINEP 
rJ (J
1 
www.jumble.com 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT A "GOOD" SPORT WIL-L-DO AT A NUDIST 
CAMP. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday's  Jumbles: Answer:  GAWKY SILKY MASCOT Why her husband liked the formfitting  INVERT  
outfit-IT WAS LAST YEAR'S  

EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS I>A Y: Kelly Oshourne, 21; Scott Weiland,
38; John Clecse, 66; Peter Firth, 52statement?

1 Rafts 1 Evidence of an 42 They're counted admission 
Happy Hirthday: Don't let emotional matters slow you down this year. Your 5 Maned grazer personal life will sort itself out, but don't pass up an opportunity to follow ain gyms 2 Certain peer dream. Diligently work toward your goal. Your greatest success can come this
15 Sharp 43 Diamond deals 3 It made it past 
year ifyou put your mind to it. Don't let fear of lailurc scare you. Your numhcrs 16 Disappointing 
are2, II, 23, 31.37.46 course finish 
sirens
44 Do major harm to 4 Some crocks 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You will be attracted to people who arc just as 17 Drive diverse and versatile as you arc. You should be on the move and trying io gain5 Distaff47 DuPont ground when it comes to your vocation. Learning will play a hig part in your18 It's not jotted trademark 6 Apt to stay put day. •••down TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Don't hold back or keep things to yoursclfifyou49 Billionaires and 7 Imparts want to resolve issues. Once you take the first step, you will fly through the rest19 Windbags their families, 8 Colon oftoday with conlidence. You may not plt:<L~c everyone, but ifyou please yourself21 Ushered e.g. 
composition 
you will he ahead of the game. ••••• 22 Seat cpver? 50 Magic was part 
GEMINI (May 21-.lunc 20): Be careful-things arc not as they appear. Protect9 Actress/model your linancial investments. You may be taken advantage of by someone youof it Mendes23 Without 
least expect. You may he confused ahout a relationship you arc involved in.** 54 Asian appetizer 10 He may carry 
CANCER (.June 21-July 22): Stop waflling or heing negative and get on with24 Kind of bar 
it. Everything is going your way, so jump on the handwagon and take a chance. 56 Moon 
your burdens 
The chance of doing something that will help you reach your goals is looking surrounder 11 Cyclotron
27 Marriage bond 
very positive. •••• 28 Tidy sum inventor 
LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Do what you can by yourself. Other people will just57 "No more Mr. 
Lawrence get in your way. Don't let anyone give you the run-around, but avoid getting31 Spy tool, briefly Nice Guy!" 
angry --it will leave you feeling down and unahle to do your best. •••12 Literary VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Forget about trying to please the ones you love.
34 Lets go 58 Plays for a invention of Nothing you do today will satisfy the people around you. Travel or placing35 Draft pick sucker Archilochus 
yourself in a learning situation will bring you the most in return. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't put added pressure on yourself today. Ifyou36 Take for a ride 59 Patter 13 Subbed are in doubt, don't do it. Love is looking good, so set your sights on having a 14 Nottingham is 
little fun with the people you enjoy heing with the most. ••• on it 
37 Opposite of 60 Broken-off 32 Architectural 40 Cat burglar's 47 Unfriendliness SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Work in conjunction with someone who has thehence branch projection need 48 Holdover same interests and you will be successful. Anxiety will hold you back, so don't20 Be hesitant 41 Native to labor over something you can't change. Cast your fate to the wind. ••••33 1962 expansion 50 Trier trio
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
23 Curry of "Today" SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Don't worry too much ahout what everyone 
·­
team 42 Rhea, e.g. 
51 Naturalness 

else wants today. You will be surrounded by people you can't please or change. 44 Breaks in 
Rethink some of your relationships. It may be time to move on. ••with lab safety? 36 Plant of the pink 52 Blind jazz CAPRICORN (I>ec. 22-.Jan. 19): Take on whatever challenge comes your way
scores and you will show everyone how etlicient you are. Prosperity is looking you infamily pianist 
Templeton25 Perch for an 45 Leader of the the face. Someone influential will see your vision and be willing to help you out.

38 Keys on maps

ibex 
pack? 53 Just 'bout •••••
26 Home of the AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make money ifyou stay in control and39 Lummox 46 Like some bugs 55 Political inits.
National 
you use your own ingenuity and creative imagination to get your end result. Most Automobile 
of all, you have to believe in yourself and your ahilitics. ••• Museum I'ISCES (Feh. 19-M arch 20): Your emotions are running high, hut so is your
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
ability to mesmerize someone you care about. Don't hold back when you have27 Supporter of a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
so much going for you. Take one ofyour unique ideas and turn it into something proposal? Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday lucrative. •••crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
29 Adds to dishonestly Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Hirthday Baby: You are practical but passionate about your beliefs and dreams. past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). You pull your weight and aren't afraid to go it alone. You are a force to be
30 Y wearer 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young reckoned with. 31 Coagulate solvers: nytimes.com/Jearning/xwords. 
Eul!enia's Weh sites: a\·troadvice.c·om fin· fUn. eul!enia/a.,·t.com fiJr confidential consul/ations 
-----------------------------------------------------------~----------~--­

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
.. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ 
Address ______________________~--------------­City __________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, October 28, 2005 
page 24 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Da111e hosts rare top-10 showdown with Bearcats 
One-loss Irish and undefeated Louisville will square off Saturday in the highest-profile match in JACC since 1996 
sit one spot behind the Cardinals changing, perhaps season-defin­ed. They have already beaten star player who's just been play­By TOM DORWART 
in the American Volleyball ing victory or off a tough loss -three Top 15 teams this year, ing very, very well," coach Sports Writer 
Coaches Association polls. will host Cincinnati (15-7, 6-2 including then-No. 4 Florida, No. Debbie Brown said. For the first time since 1996, Big East) Sunday at 12:30 p.m. 8 USC and No. 11 Texas. That star is 6-foot-3 outside 
So far this season, the Irish are two Top 10 volleyball teams will The Irish have won 11 straight Florida's lone loss is to Notre hitter Lena Ustymenko. living their motto -"Haising the face each other at the Joyce and are tied for the highest-ever Dame. The Gators have "She's very, very good," Brown bar." Center. rating in school history. Their remained at No. 4 since the said. "I think that's going to be 
No. 6 and undefeated Saturday at 2 p.m., No. 7 18-1 start also matches the pro­upset. Still, the Irish know they key for us. We're going to have Louisville comes to the Joyce Notre Dame (18-1, 8-0 Big East) gram's best 19-match start. are in for a dogfight. to neutr.alize her for sure, but Center this Saturday, and the takes on the Cardinals (20-0, 8-0 With the unblemished "We know we're going to have they have other weapons as Irish expect to win. The bar has Big East). Then, the Irish -who Cardinals coming to town, the to have a good gameplan against been raised so high that the Irish will either be fresh off a season-Irish certainly aren't intimidat-their offense and against their see MATCH/page 22 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
The great eight 
Ramblers and Manorites will kick off playoff action 
By JACK THORNTON, CHRIS HINE, DAN MURPHY and BEN VINCENT Sports Writers 
When Morrissey and Siegfried collide this Sunday in first round playoff action at Riehle South Field, spectators can anticipate a hard-nosed battle between two defensive powerhouses. 
Both the Ramblers (3-1) and the Manorites (3-1) rode into the playoffs on their defenses, which made up for low-scoring offensive units. 
"It takes us a while to score points because of the 'style we run, so after we score we put a lot of pressure on our defense to stop our opponents," said Manor captain Nick Klein, who leads the team in touchdowns. 
see PLAYOFF/page 22 

BALLON!The Observer A Rambler running back turns the corner in Siegfried's game against Carroll. Siegfried faces Morrissey Sunday. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Nixon is a rare grad as coach 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Twenty-six Notre Dame alumni have come back to coach Irish 
.---------, athletic squads in the school's his­tory. 2002 graduate Carrie Nixon is the latest to return as 
she takes ..._.--......l...,.~""-'-'~ 
Nixon
over as women's swimming coach this 
see COACH/page 20 

fOOTBALL 
Special teams sees a variety of return men 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Following BYU's touchdown drive to open the second half last 
Saturday, the Cougars kicked off to 
D.J. Hord. Or 
was  it  to  
D  a  v  i  d  
Grimes?  

_ Considering the number 


of players Hord coach Charlie Weis and special teams coach 
Brian Polian are rotating through special teams, it's no wonder the two players collided going for the ball. 
"There were about three or four issues that happened during that game on special teams that I wasn't very happy with, but I thought it was a very average day by our special teams unit," Weis said. 
Hord, on his first college kick­off return, scooped up the ball and ran three yards before being tackled. Along with Grimes, Justin Hoskins, Brandon Harris, 
see ROTATE/page 22 

NO WoMEN's SoccER 
Irish enter tournament streaking 
Four forwards provide for a balanced attack against Georgetown 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 

The Irish think they are peak­ing at the right time. 
Since losing badly to Marquette on Sept. 30, Notre Dame has turned a corner and become one of the hottest teams in the country in time for the Big East Tournament. 
"We've gotten in that groove -into that second gear -for the end of the season," Irish head coach Randy Waldrum said. "[The team is] playing with a lot of confidence and they're playing with focus." 
With a 6-1 victory over Georgetown Sunday, the Irish extended their winning streak to seven. During the four-week tear, Notre Dame has outscored its opponents 32-1, posting six shutouts along the way. 
The Irish hope to keep that winning streak alive in a quar­terfinal matchup Sunday at 1 
p.m. -again against the Hoyas on Alumni Field. 
Waldrum said he is confident his team will continue its good play but knows there are dan­gers in facing a team twice in a week. 
"You worry about overconfi­dence," he said. 
Notre Dame only found out it would play Georgetown late Thursday night when the Hoyas defeated Syracuse, 1-0, in a tournament play-in game. 
Before that game, Waldrum said he was not sure which team he would rather face. 
"That's a question we've been kicking around all week," he said. "In some ways we would like [to face] Georgetown, ... but there are advantages in fac­ing Syracuse." 
The Irish think they can get past the Hoyas to advance in the conference tournament and 
see SCORERS/page 22 


ND CROSS COIJNTRY 
ND SWIMMING 
SMC VOI.lEYBALl 

HOCKEY 
MEN'S SOCCER SMC SOCCER 
LLI Co) 

z Notre Dame will run The Irish women face 
The Belles lost to 

Notre Dame will host The Irish face Big East Saint Mary's will take 
= 
I:C ::5 Saturday in the Big East California at horne and Albion in three games Princeton in a two-game foe Seton Hall Saturday on Tri-State Saturday in Championships in the 
and Purdue in West 
in their regular-season 

set this weekend in the in the teams' final game 
a pivotal late-season Bronx. 
Lafayette this weekend. 
finale. 

team's first home games. 
of the regular season. 
conference match. 
cc 

a. !:i page 21 page 20 page 19 page 18 page 18page 19
U) 



