
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
BOT report to address 'Issues of Equality' 
By MADDIE HANNA 
A~sm:iate News Editor 
Stnadfast in tlwir pursuit of inerPasing diversity awareness at Notn~ Damn, student body president Dave Baron, former prnsidnnt Adam Istvan and for­mnr vie11 pr.osidnnt Karla Boll will addross the Board of Trustnos Thursday, giving a pr11snntation based on solu­tions to tho conceptual prob­lems featured in their winter BOT rnport. 
Tho rww report, nntitled "Issues of Equality: Creating a Welcoming Environment for All, Part II: The Solution," offers conerete answers to questions on how to combat the prnvailing racist, hntero­snxist and snxist attitudes that the report authors say current­ly exist at Notre Dame. 
"We made a eonseious effort not to prioritize the topics of raeism, heterosnxism, and sex­ism (over uno another(," Bell said. "Each are present on campus and each harrns eer­tain individuals on a personal level and everyone in a com­munity level." 
Hogarding racism, the report proposes expanding the Cnnter for Social Concerns seminar programs, hiring a graduate student to organize the oll"orts of the 350 students who apply yearly to the Diversity Education program and imple­menting a Diversity Designation Requirement. 

The section on heterosoxism calls homosexuals Notre Dame's "invisible minority" and recommends the mandato­ry training of resident assis­tants, a voluntary peer ally program, the allocation of office space for the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs and the granti­ng of ofl'icial club status to a student group devoted to dis­cussion between gay and straight individuals. 
To fight sexism, tho report supports changes to the cur­rent Freshman Orientation program events -which it says can be "juvenile and hypersexualized" -as well as the addition of a poor-to-peer information program coordi­nated through Contemporary Topics, an increase in available dorm 24-hour soda! space and 
see REPORTIpage 4 

Saint Mary's remembers Malloy 
said. "Saint Mary's hasn't By NICOLE ZOOK known any other (Notre Assistant News Editor 
Dame( president for 18 years. 
so that's quite a long time. 
Students going all the way 

During his 18-year tenure back have known him as as University President, president of Notre Dame." Father Edward Malloy helped Egan, who is also adjunct implement many signil"icant faculty at the University, said changes not only at Notre he felt Malloy had a profound Dame, but personal impact on the many also at the See Also Saint Mary's students he University's came into contact with over sister sch­"Father Edward the years. ool, Saint "I think for our students
Malloy:
Mary's. he's probably a figure of Saint Ma­University inspiration, a figure that's a ry's admin­national and even an interna­
President 
istrators tional figure," he said. "Our and profes­1987-2005" students, even though we're sors said across the street from Notre
pullout
Malloy has Dame, know about and impacted admire Father Malloy." the College since he first took Others commented on thn office in 1987. development of' relationships 
"lie's been a c<instant fig­between the two institutions ure," religious studies endowed chair Keith Egan see MALLOY/page 10 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Students avvarded Fulbrights 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Distinf,'ltishing themselves from thousands of' undergraduatns around the eountry, Saint Mary's senior Nina llnlman and Notre Dame senior Erin Mai were awarded Fulbright Teaching Assistantships this semnster and both will pursue their projeets abroad in (;ermany alter f,'radua­tion. 
llelman. a mmmunieation stud­ins and German major who has German rool<; and family living in Colonge, Germany, is excited about her upcoming project abroad. She studied in lnnsbruck, Austria hnr sophomorn through tho Notre Dame program and decided to apply li1r the Fulbright award with the erwouragenwnt of Saint Mary's German profnssor Marianne Hahn. 
"It is aetually kind of' amazing that someone from Saint Mary's got it because (the Gnrman pro­f,tramj is struggling right now and not a lot of peopln are interested in it," llnlma.,u said. 
In hnr junior year, thn (;ranger native lwlpnd organizn a eonfnr­ence with Notrn Dame Professor Denise Della Hossa. The nvnnt W<L'i entitled "Women and tlw Nation: 18th Century Cnrman Women's Writing" and attracted women from all ovnr thn world. 
I Ieiman, who hopes one day to go into publie broadcasting in Germany, will bn teac~hing English to middle school-and high school­aged studnnl<;. 
sec AWARDS/page 8 


University integrates service into courses 
Hy KATIE WAGNER 
Nrws Writt·r 
Thn University offered I :1CJ eommunity-based learning classns in tho 2004-05 school ynar, an inernase by l R in just two years, according to tho Cnntnr for Social Coneerns (CSC). 
Notre l>amt~'s community­based learning courses (CBI.s) are often snrvice­basnd, moaning they rnquire students to engage in some form of meaningful sorvicn to tho community to receive erndit. Others involve direet eontaet with members of the community through dialogue, participa­tion, analysis and observa­tion of' partieular communi­ty activities. 
At lnast 41 percent of stu­dents at Notre Dame have participated in one or more CBL courses by the time tlwy graduate, according to tlw esc. 
The School of Architneturo, Law School, Mendoza College of Business, College of Science and First Year of' Studios all ol"l"nr CBL courses. The College of Arts and Letters offers the most -6R differ­ent courses this year alone -with the majority under the theology department. 
According to U.S. News & World Heport's 2004 edition of America's Best Colleges, Notre Dame ranks among the top 20 sehools in 
see CBL!page 6 


Tenants cautious of deposit losses 
By JARRETT LANTZ 
News Writer 
A<; tlw year comes to an eml, many Notre Dame studenl'i am taking advan­tage of their last opportunities to host parties in their housns and apartmenL<;. But many oll"-eampus studnnl<; also lind themselves driving to tlwir local hard­ware storn to pick up plaster, paint and earpet shampoo to make tlwir apart­ment or house look like new. 
"We've kept our house in vnry good mndition," said Hamin Saghali, a Notre~ Damn student living on St. Peter's Street for tho past year. "We arn going to repair what we need to in ord(lr to try to get as much of our deposit back <L'> possible." 
When one first rents a house or apartment, they must put down a secu­rity deposit to proadivnly pay for any damages incurred during their stay. 
When the tnnanl<; leave, the deposit is generally refunded if no damage W<L'i done to the apartment or homo. 
see DEPOSITS/page 8 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April27, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Seniors, farevvell 
Seniors: 

Thanks for being our dormmates, our roommates, our teammates, our classmates, our dinner dates. 
Thanks for welcoming us to cam­pus freshman year with open Megan O'Neil 
arms, open hearts, and open 

Saint Mary's 
ears. Thanks for helping us loft Editor our beds, and for easing our parents' fears. 
Thank you for great SYRs, regat­tas and chariot races. Thanks for introducing us to dorm life and put­ting us through the paces. 
Thanks for escorting us to The Show and leading us to Rally. Thanks for handing us another beer when our stomachs began to dally. 
Thanks, seniors, for passing on the football cheers and singing with the marching band. Thanks for screaming during the second quar­ter for the freshman class to stand. 
Thanks for linking arms and singing the alma mater. Thanks for dancing a clumsy jig, e~ery son and daughter. 
We thank you repeatedly for wearing you heart on your sleeve. Your energetic and mirthful atti­tude will be missed when you leave. 
Thank you for you kindness, your encouragement, your love. Thank you for pushing us when we needed a little shove. 
Thanks again for countless mid­night trips to Reekers and LaFun. Thanks for telling us to eat two cheesy slices when we only needed one. 
Thank you for convincing us to study in China, Italy and Brazil. Thanks for sharing your worldly experience and a once-in-a-lifetime thrill. -• 
Thanks for your service work in the community of South Bend. You showed that no matter how busy, there's always a lend to hand. 
Thanks for sympathizing when we thought we passed and earned an ugly D. Thanks for celebrating when we thought we failed and fin­ished with a B. 
Thanks for being such tremen­dous examples, you are impossible to replace. Thank you for remind­ing us never to give up the chase. 
Thanks for creating an environ­ment that truly feels like home. Thanks for showing spirit, and fighting for the Dome. 
Thank you for studying with us, thanks for each and every hour. Thank you for getting excited when you see the LeMans bell tower. 
We thank you eternally for semes­ters full of laughter. We thank you for all the funny jokes we will remember from here on after. 
Thanks for great discussions. and arguments in class. Thanks for all those burly hugs each weekend during mass. 
Thank you for frequent walks to the grotto to pray. Thank you for teaching us to appreciate the bless­ings of each day. 
Thank you seniors, thank you. Thank you and farewell. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reponing error in rhe April 26 edition of The Observer, wide receiver Jeff Samardzija was incorrectly identified as a member of the Gold team in Saturday's Blue-Gold Game. He played on the Blue ream. The Observer regrets the .error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING THIS SUMMER? 




IN BRIEF 
2004 U.S. Professor of the Year Rhona Free, Notre Dame alumna and professor of eco­nomics at Eastern Connecticut University, will give a lecture entitled "Tsunamis, Cincotti, and Silk Sarongs: Bringing Life to the Classroom and the Classroom to Life" from 3:30 
p.m. 
to 4:45 todij,y in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning. 

Rebecca Paul will give a graduate recital from 4:30 

p.m. 
to 6 Friday in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free and open to the public, but tickets are required. For tickets, call the DeBartolo box office at 574­631-2800. 


The Notre Dame baseball team will play Cleveland State at 6 p.m. Friday at Eck Stadium. 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team will take on Ohio State at 7 p.m. Friday at Moose Krause Field. 
Notre Dame Chorale and the Chamber Orchestra will be performing at 8 p.m. Friday in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The event is free and open to the public. 
The film "The Best Years of Our Lives" will be shown at 3 
p.m. Saturday in Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit infc!rmation to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

56 41 

59 40 

Brian Hightower sophomore Alumni  Nicholas Shaneyfelt freshman O'Neill  Julie Hynes sophomore Howard  Matthew Flynn freshman O'Neill  Juan Mendoza sophomore Dillon  Patricia Alvarez sophomore Pangborn  
"Eating steaks.,,  "Taking some summer classes and bumming around."  "Blading, beaching and bumming around."  "Going to Alaska.,  "Absolutely nothing and it's everything I've dreamed of"  "Becoming a ,beach bum.  


Herd of buffalo corralled on tennis court 
PIKESVILLE, Md. -A herd of buffalo somehow got loose and wandered around an upscale neighborhood Tuesday, disrupting traffic and alarming homeowners before officers managed to corral them in a tennis court. 
More than a dozen police cars and a police helicopter were used to herd the roughly 10 beasts, authori­ties said. 
"Somehow they figured it out; I've got to give a lot of credit to the creativity of our officers," police spokesman Shawn Vmson said. 
The officers used lounge 
chairs beside the tennis 
. court as shields and formed a human chain to corral the wayward buffalo. One buffa­lo was seen leaping over one of the tennis nets in an effort to evade capture. 
Bulldog Tiberius crowned king of wrinkles 
DES MOINES, Iowa-He's a mutt with a mug only a mother could love. No mat­ter. Tiberius, a 2 1/2-year­old English bulldog, was crowned "Most Beautiful Bulldog" on Monday and will reign as the canine king at this year's Drake Relays, Iowa's premier sporting event. 

Tiberius bested about 50 other eye-catching examples of the breed from through­out the Midwest in capturing the annual contest. 
"What they look for is the ugliest bulldog you can find ... droopy eyes, protruding teeth, slobbering," said Dolph Pulliam, director of Drake's community outreach and development. "He rides in a golf cart around the track as the announcer announces him as the 2005 most beautiful .... It is a cov­eted thing." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
:::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
.... 
<C 
CJ 


0 

..... HIGH 52 
LOW 44 

39 30 


54 41 

HIGH LOW 

Wednesday, April 27, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Cotntnittee launches plans for 'The SholV' 
Nevv recycling ca111paign begins 
'From Old to Gold' organizers hope to draw students to donate 
said. After senior week, the "Effective and Innovative By JEN ROWLING 
team of volunteers will once Practice Award" at the News Writer again collect items on May 16 Educational Leadership and 17. Forum in The first ever "From Old to "I figure Washington, Gold" campaign will morph there will be "/ have no doubt that D.C. in July Notre Dame stadium into a 30 tons Iof 2004 for their
ND students can
gigantic yard sale of items food and similar pro­donated by students leaving item]", said surpass any students gram entitled for the summer on May 21 Bigger. in the nation." "Trash to from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. Bigger Treasure," "From Old to Gold" is open stressed the said Bigger. 
Alan Bigger
to everyone in the community multiple lev­This will be and benefit the South Bend els of "From Director of Building Penn State's community and many partici­Old to Gold," Services fourth year pating charities. A $5 admis­and the way sponsoring sion will be charged for early the program the event. shoppers, who will have the benefits many members of "Trash to Treasure" has been opportunity to sort through the community. extremely successful, gross­all of the best items said Alan Students may now donate ing $54,673 last year. accord­Bigger, director of Building and also conveniently dispose ing to the Penn State Web Services. of unnecessary items. site. 
United Way of St. Joseph Members of the community "From Old to Gold" coordi­County and numerous chari­will be able to make afford­nators likewise expect this ties have worked with the able purchases and charities event to bn successful. University to make this event will receive the earning. "I have no doubt ND stu­possible, Bigger said. In eaeh Lastly, the community as a dents can surpass any stu­residence whole worked to dents in the nation," Biggnr hall, barrels minimize disposed said.
7 think it is 
are posi-items in the land­Jackie Hucker, din~etor of tioned for something we can lills, Bigger said. Community Helations. said students to "Obviously the the responses from pnople in
build on." 

place unwant­last thing we want the community have been ed items and to do is discard positive.
Jackie Rucker 
food as they into the landfill," "I think it is something we move out for Director of Community Bigger said. ean build on," Hucker said, the summer. Relations The idea of mentioning that eventually 
Beginning "From Old to the University hopes t.o team today, volun-Gold" came from up with Saint Mary's for the teers will pick up any items Pennsylvania State University. event. placed in the barrels and The Association of Higher bring them to the stadium for Education Facilities officers Contact Jen Rowling at storing and sorting, Bigger presented Penn State with the jrowling@nd.edu 
By LISA SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
Continuing a four-year tradition of the large fall concert in the Joyce Center, Notre Dame stu­dnnts ean expect to be impressed by The Show 2005, said Anja Smitz, chairman of The Show. 
"We will revolutionize The Show," she said. 
Overseeing a committee of 18 people since February, Smitz has faith tho team will makn the annu­al fall event, which is open to Notre Damn, Saint Mary's and lloly Cross students, speetacular. 
"I can assurn you that The Show will be huge this year," Smitz said. 
Although expectations are high, thorn has been no decision made about who will be performing. 
Most of' the work is still to como for The Show committee, which has divided the work load into thr11e division~ -linanee, market­ing and production. 
Thus far, most of' the focus so far has bnnn on the linance sub-eom­mittm1. Fundraising is essential since Thn Show committee is responsible for covnring all eosts of' Tho Show, Smitz said. Fundraising is also key in keeping the priee of student tickets low. 
Part of the "revolutionizing" of The Show includes a new logo to bn releasnd soon. Tho niTorts of' thn marknting division will be visi­hln around campus thn lirst wnnk of fall smnester when a new advertising campaign is scheduled to be launched. 
"A great amount of the work will be done during the summer, so in some respects, the work has really just begun," Smitz said. 
Although a list of possible bands for The Show 2005 is not yet available, whoever is selected will fulfill The Show's "commitments to community and diversity," Smitz said. 
Past performers include Talib Kweli and Jason Mraz in 2004, Black Eyed Peas and Guster in 2003 and Better than Ezra and The Parliament Funk in 2002. In 2001, the event, previously called "Flipstock," featured the bands SH-71, Nine Days and They Might Be Giants. 
Student input is important for selecting which artist is brought to campus for The Show, and Smitz encourages studertts to email sug­gestions to theshow@nd.edu. The committee is still in the process of trying to "get an idea for what is big now or will be big in the near future," Smitz said. 
Once the committee compiles a list of possible artists, members of the administration review the bands. 
"As a committee, we have to be very careful to find bands with acceptable lyrics and band image, so we are forced to eliminate some bands from our initial lists," Smitz said. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 


Summer Service Project Internships 
8 weeks of service-learning in cities in the U.S. 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Three-credit theology course $2000 scholarship, additional $1000 AmeriCorps grant is possible Sponsored by ND Alumni Clubs and The Andrews Scholarship Fund 

The following sites are still available: 
Akron, OH-Camp Christopher for children with disabilities Albuquerque, NM-Male student needed for Dismas House Albuquerque, NM -Male student needed for Good Shepherd Shelter Ann Arbor, MI-Lifeline Program for the elderly, needs student with a car Columbus, GA -Stewart House, car recommended Denver, CO -The Bridge Project with children Des Moines, IA -Catholic Worker House Elizabeth, NJ -St. Joseph Social Service, for a local student Gallup, NM -Villa Guadalupe, working with persons who are elderly Greensboro, NC-Guilford Interfaith Hospitality, needs student with a car Hartford, CT-Female student needed to work with a children's camp & other services Huntsville, AL -A female student with a car, a few sites from which to choose Jackson, MI -St. Louis Center Male student needed, Spanish helpful Jacksonville, FL-L' Arche Harbor House, a community of people with disabilities Lansing, M I -Mother Teresa House for persons who are terminally ill Long Island -Interfaith Nutrition Network, for a local student Michigan City, IN-Share Foundation, a camp for persons with disabilities Nappanee, IN -Boys and Girls Club, summer program Peoria, IL -Guardian Angel Home, for a local student Rockford, lL-Medical clinic, needs a female student with a car San Diego, CA -Food Bank St. Louis, MO-Marion Hall, a home for teenage girls who have been abused Starved Rock, I L -Ottawa Friendship House, Washington, DC -Spanish-speaking female needed to work with women and children 
Applications are available at http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/academic/sumnler/SSP.shtml or at the front desk at the esc. 





page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April27, 2005 

Report 
continued from page 1 
an updated University sexual assault schematic. 
"Though the traditions of our dorm life mark the uniqueness of our University, we must rec­ognize that they are divided on lines of gender, and this fact does present implications to relations between men and women," Bell said. 
She explained that it was not difficult for her, Istvan and Baron to select "Issues of Equality" as the topic for their winter BOT report, especially after research and reflection on the specified issues. 
"We felt that simply one hour was not enough to convey a sit­uation and a solution, so we decided to split the presentation into two parts, the situation and solution," Bell said. 
Istvan said Notre Dame's cli­mate, less diverse than that of many other institutions, was part of the problem. 
"The fact of the matter is that we don't have as diverse a stu­dent body _as many other schools do. As a white, straight man, I'm not faced with these issues everyday at Notre Dame," Istvan said. "I think the student body is ripe and willing to make a commitment to issues of diversity, but I think it is important to listen closely to the 
~ccos 
Restaurant 

irst Ori&ina( Pizza in rTown! 
Sinee 1951 Specializing in Italian Entrees Tues.-Thurs.: 5:00PM-!1:00PM Fri. -Sat.: 5:00PM-1:00AM 537 North St. Louis South Bend, IN 574-233-2464 



minority of students when talk­ing about a welcoming environ­ment for all." 
Although Baron is only finish­ing his third year at Notre Dame, he said he felt positive changes have occurred since 1980, when a Scholastic article was published addressing simi­lar topics to the current BOT report. 
"It was troubling to see both reports explicitly discussed a · disconnect between races, but I believe we have made progress," Baron said. "Since then, the number of minority students at Notre Dame has more than doubled. If you include international students, that figure has tripled. I believe our student body is now more aware and cognizant to the fact that a respect for difference is important to our faith and our role in the world." 
Both Istvan and Baron expressed confidence in the report's potential to be effective in accomplishing their goals. 
"I do believe that these reports will have a significant impact. Each of the solutions presented in the report have been discussed with appropri­ate administrators, and I believe we will see movement on them," Baron said. 
Istvan said he hoped the reports would generate discus­sion. 
"The most effective way to instigate change is through dis-
Special Hours for Graduation 
May 15th 4pm-10pm 
No Reservations Please 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEI'ARfMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE & CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 
PURCELL_~ SCHUBERT ~ WAGNER MENDELSSOHN~ RACHMANINOFF 
8:00P.M., FRIDAY, APRil 29, 2005 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
ADMISSION $10; FACULTY/STAFF $8; SENIORS $6; STUDENTS $3 RESERVATIONS 574-631-2800 
tion for the whole year," Baron said. "We believe in the solu­tions we are presenting, and we intend to work for their realiza­tion." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
tr"i%DEBARTOLO 
\~'\;; ,fii PERFORMING ARTS CENTER ~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
cussion. It means making sure that people have the informa­tion and education that will allow them to have discussions in their dorm rooms, the dining hall and LaFortune," Istvan said. "It's a grassroots means to see change." 

While Baron often references "Part Ill: The Implementation," he explained that there would not be an actual BOT report with this title in the future. 
"It will be a theme for [stu­dent body vice president] Lizzi [Shappell] and my administra-

Voted 3rd year in a row a readers choice favorite in the South Bend Tribune 
• 
Accepting reservations for Graduation 

and can accomodate large parties 

• 
2 locations convenient to Notre Dame: 


•Downtown South Bend across from the Hall of Fame 288-PEEP 
•Mishawaka off Main St. next to Super Target 271-PEEP 
6:30am -2:00pm Mon-Fri 7:00am -2:00pm Sat.& Sun 
·--juV-o.te-e-.1tree g-e:r-a-seeot1d-it1tree t-re_e_-· 
second entree must be ofequal or lesser value 1 (valid weekdays and not to be used with any other offer) 1 I Observercoupon • expires o6/3o/2005 1 
~-----------------------------------------· 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 27, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TI··IE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Anti-Japanese protesters arrested 
SIIANGIIAI, China -Authorities havo dntainnd 42 people accused of "disturbing sorial ordnr" during recent anti-.Japaneso protnsts, in thn govnrnmont's sternest warn­ing so far against further unmst, state media rnportnd Tuesday. 
Statn-run Shanghai Tnlnvision ran film footagn identifying sevnral of' thoso suspected of' throwing bottles at the .Japanesn Consulate and smashing in windows of' rnstaurants thought to be owned by .Japannse during the demonstrations in Shanghai, which involwd up to 20,000 peo­plf'. 
"I rngrd my bnhavior vnry much," said one of' thn dntainnns. idontil'ied as Zhang .Jianyong of' soutlwrn China's I lubei provinee. "I should not havn brok1m the law." 
Iraqi Prime Minister finishes plans 
BA< ;III>Ail. Iraq-i\l'tf'r months of' haggling ovPr lhP maknup of' Iraq's post-Saddam llussPin gowrnnwnt. Primo Minist1~r-designatn Ibrahim al-.laaf'ari has c:omplntod a draft list of' Cahi1wt ministers that hn is submitting to thn prPsidPnt, a spoknsman said Tunsday. 
l.awmakl'l"s said that undnr tho proposal, Shiites would get tlw majority of the 32 min­istries. with tlw others distributed among Kurdish, Sunni and Christian factions. Thrno dPputy premiers an~ also proposnd-orw Pach from thn majority Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds. 
Al-.laaf'ari nwt with l'residnnt .Iahti Talabani to discuss the dral't, said ai-.Jaaf'ari's spokosman, Abdul Hazak ai-Kadhi. If tho list is approved by Talabani's throe-member presi­dential rouneil. ai-.Jaafari eould submit it to thn National Assnmbly for a vote as soon as Wndnnsday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Fire kiJis student in dormitory 
COLJ.EGEIMLE, Tenn. -An early morning dormitory fire killed one student Tuesday, and two others were rescued from a third­story window and treatod at a hospital, olli­eials said. 
Thn eause of the blaze in thn women's dorm at Southern Adventist University was not immediately known. Fire officials said most of the damage appeared to be around a third-floor laundry and lobby area in the brick building. 
Stnve Pawluk, the university's viee presi­dnnt of acadnmie administration, said the :H,-year-old dorm was up to code. 
Univnrsity officials identified the student who died as Kelly Weimer, a 20-year-old jun­ior l~nglish major from Woodridge, Ill. Her roommate was among those who made it safnly out of the building. 
Cabral's signature on dollar bills 
WASIIIN<;TON -It's official: Anna Escobedo Cabral, the 42nd U.S. treasurer, now has her name on the money. 
Tmasury St~eretary .John Snow, whose sig­naturn also appears on U.S. eurreney, joined Cabral and members of her family at the Burnau of Engraving on Tuesday to watch tlw printing of the first dollar bills with her signature. 
"llern thny come!" Snow exclaimed as the platns for the dollar bill spun on a large printing prnss. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Police officer shot by suspect 
SOUTI I BEND, Ind. -A city policn ollic1w was shot whiln sorving a warrant, after which the suspect fatally shot himsPif. authorities said. 
Matthew II. Schn~ul, 22, of South Bend, shot ;{ 1-ynar-old ( )flienr William Pelletinr, who was in good condition Ttwsday at a hospital after hav­ing surgery to fix a shattered bone in his left arm, said Capt. Miduwl Grzegorek, spoknsman for the St. Joseph County police. 
Police reeeivnd a tip that Sehreul was at a house Monday on the southoast sido of the city, said Capt. John Williams, spoknsman for the South Bnnd Police. 
TOGO 

Gnassignbe elected president 
Opposition protests election offormer dictator's son, rampage in streets ofLorne 
Associated Press  
LOME, Togo ­The son of  
Togo's late dictator won a  
resounding vietory in a  
presidential election, send­ 
ing enraged opposition sup­ 
porters into the streets  
Tuesday. Protesters built  
flaming barrieades and  
usnd machetes and nail­ 
studded clubs to battle  
police and soldiers, clashes  
that tort morn than l 00 peo­ 
ple injured.  
Faure Gnassingbe won  
I.3 million votes, or 60 per­ 
cont. while main opposition  
candidate Bob Akitani took  
S41,000, or 38 pnrnent,  
electoral eommission  
Chairwoman Kissem  
Tchangai Walla said.  
Sunday's balloting in this  
impoverished West African  
nation was marred by vio­ 
lenee and allegations of'  
vote-tampering.  
Tho military had installed  
Gnassingbe as president  
shortly a!'tor his father,  
(inassingbe Eyadema, died  
of a heart attaek Feb. 5.  
Eyadema's 38 years in  
power had made him  
Africa's longest-ruling dic­ 
tator. Amid heavy interna­ 
tional pressure, the 39-year  
old son agreed to an elec­ 
tion.  
After the results were  
announced, mobs of young men raged across the capi­tal of Lome, setting stacks  AP A Togolese soldier kicks a suspected looter after forcing him to kneel. Opposition to the election clashed with security forces immediately after the election Tuesday.  

of tires ablaze and unleash­ing plumes of smoke that darkened the horizon. Through the afternoon, security forces with tear gas and concussion grenades seattered the protesters. 
"Freedom for Togo!" they shouted, taunting poliee through clouds of tear gas. "Come and take us!" 
An Associated Press reporter saw two men who had been shot and saw sev­eral soldiers beat a suspect­ed looter with clubs, kicking him in the head once he 
ten. 

The young man's mother ran onto the scene, strip­ping naked in protest and wailing: "Oh God, they're going to kill him!" As the youth was loaded into a military truck, sho screamed, "Please don't take my son!" and the man was later released. 
By late'Tuesday, more than 100 people injured in the day's dashes had been admitted to Lome's main hospital, said Red Cross official Abram Morel. They ineluded several gunshot vietims and people who'd been beaten by protesters and seeurity forces, he said: 
Shops belonging to Lebanese merehants were looted and merchandise strewn in the streets. Windows of the Chinese Embassy were smashed in by rocks, and nervous guards peeked through slits in the gate. 
Opposition party officials had urged supporters to protest the election results. 
"Faure ean't win this 
eleetion and everyone knows it," Jean-Pierre Fabre, secretary general of Akitani's political party, told Radio Franee Internationale. 
"The opposition is calling all its members to react and to stop this from happen­ing," he said, without spnci­fying what actions support­ers should take. 
Hundreds of opposition supporters rioted Sunday, angry at reports that the ruling party stole ballot boxes or stuffnd them with votes for Gnassingbe. A for­eign diplomat said three men were shot to death near Lome's airport, but it was unclear by whom. 
Akitani went into hiding as the voting took place, saying he feared for his life, and his whereabouts were not known. 

The U.S. Embassy had six teams of observers in the field, according to Stato Department spokesman Adam ErelL There was no immediate word on thoir findings. 
A spokeswoman for the 15-nation Eeonomic Community of' West Af'riean States, which had 127 observers in Togo, dedared the elections fair, saying votes uncounted amid vio­lence Sunday in l.onHl weren't enough to eause concorn. 
"The polls satisfy the cri­teria of credibility and international standards," Adrienne Diop, a spokns­woman f'or tho regional body, said Tuesday. 
Terror alert system to be changed 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -The color-eoded terror alert system that signals national threat levels would become optional under proposed legislation that sets the Homeland Seeurity Department's priorities for next year. 
The bill, whieh will be .considered Wednesday by the Ilouse Ilomeland Security Committee, says the color­coded system is too vague and the threat warnings too broad. It calls for other methods to communicate threat information to the public. 
"The publie discounts the impor­tance of the system, and even law enforcement professionals and emer­geney response personnel have dop­reeated it for vagueness and for laek­ing assoeiated guidanee," according to a draft copy of tho proposed Homeland Seeurity Authorization Aet obtained Tuesday by The Associated Press. 
Authorization bills generally lay out the policies and priorities for fed­eral agencies. 
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff has said he is con­sidering ehanges to the color-coded threat system that was foddnr for jokes on latn-night talk shows wlwn it was introduced. 
But as recently as Monday, he denied suggestions ho would serap it outright, telling NBC's "Today" show, "The warning system is important not only for the public but tlw responders and state and local gov­ernments." 
"We want to engage all of' the mechanisms to prepare when we have a warning situation," ChertoO' said. 


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 27, 2005 
does in his classes is "try to Brawn said students in her vacation, and involve reading Theology 361. Iler course develop a sense of community . class are encouraged to stay about and discussing social involved attending lectures,
CBL 

in his classroom." at the same site for all of issues from several perspec­writing three short papers continued from page 1 Like other FYC students, their service hours~ "so that tives, studying Catholic social and traveling to a part of 
those in a CBL section are you can see the development, tradition and actively working Appalachia in Tennessee to America to .offer "stellar required to write three so you can grow with the site, to build a learning communi­. improve the living conditions examples" of service-learning papers. However, the final so you are less removed from ty. Students usually pay for its residents with five courses. Forty-five percent of paper for these classes differs it." between $40 and $200 to par­other students. students from other institu­in that it is reflective and Like regular University ticipate in these seminars, "You learn useful informa­tions said that the service­analytical rather than courses, Brawn's class meets with international programs tion before you go, just so you learning component of these research-based. twice a week for 7 5 minutes being more costly. understand the situation and types of classes enhanced "In their and involves Associate Director of the where you are going better," their understanding of course papers there's writing and Center for Social Concerns Mooney said. "The actual trip material, compared to 57 per­a certain kind reading assign-Mary Beckman said Notre was the best part." cent of Notre Dame students, of transparen­"I think what ments. She said Dame's projects are unique Mooney, a science pre-pro­according to Research Report cy that is evi­distinguishes the CBL the class specifi­because of alum support and fessional major, said the 5 by the esc. dent," said cally focuses on involvement in details like experience means more than
classes is that they
Ed Kelly has been teaching Kelly. "Kids for different voca­finding places for students to just a class. two sections of CBL First Year the most part commit students to tional figures live. "What you take away from Composition (FYC) since the are very hon­really get involved and is heavily "It's likely that Notre Dame it is more memorable than for program's inception five est. It mani­discussion­has more students across the other classes," she said.
with other people. " 
years ago. These specific fests itself if based. Brawn country engaging in commu­A study done by Campus courses require students to you haven't said while the nity-based learning than any Compact in 2001 indicated perform 15 to 20 hours of really invested Ed Kelly workload can be college or University in the that other universities that service. yourself or First Year Composition heavy, it does United States," she said. have these kinds of courses About 10 percent of each engaged your­not discourage Last semester, junior typically offer about 27 per
professor
freshman class chooses to self [in the her from want-Caitlyn Mooney was one of year. take a community-based service)." ing to continue approximately 350 stmients learning section of FYC, Kelly Sophomore to do the service this year to have participated Contact Katie Wagner at 
·said.. Ashley Brawn is currently fin­hours. in the Appalachia seminar, or kwagner@nd.edu 
"I think what distinguishes ishing up her first experience "It's a little bit more of a the CBL classes is that they with a CBL course. The three­commitment than a normal commit students to really get credit theology course, theology class, but I think it's involved with other people," "Vocation and Leadership in worth it," Brawn said. "I 
Attention Students! 
said Kelly, whose FYC sec­Catholic Social Teaching," don't consider doing service tions are entitled "Bridging requires students to partici­as doing class work. I think 
SUMMER WORK
the Gap: Community" and pate in at least two hours of most people really enjoy "The Rhetoric of Idealism." community service a week. going to the sites." 
Excellent Pay 
"The hope is that students Brawn tutors at La Casa de The CSC also works with 

• Flexible schedules get out to do their service Amistad, where she had vol­various academic depart­with their eyes open to think unteered for the past two ments to hold Social Concerns • Customer sales/service about the world the way it is semesters. immersion seminars, in which • No exp. needed 7" will train and the way it could be," "This semester my service students travel to a different 
• Immediate Openings 
Kelly said. ''I'm trying to sug­has been most meaningful," part of the county or in some gest that here are some ideals Brawn said. "I feel like I've cases outside of the United • All ages 17+ to aspire to. Many of the really been able to get more States to perform service and 
• Conditions apply 
readings are from people who involved in it, really making learn about these communi­are calling us to be better an effort to know the kids, ties. These one-credit courses than we are." and really immerse myself in are usually offered during Apply Now, Start After Finals! 
Kelly said the first thing he the whole experience." breaks, including summer 
CALL 273-4878 
Congratulations To All Award Recipients And Winners For The 2005 Bookstore Basketball Tournament! 
Open Tournament Women's Tournament 
Tournament Champions -We Get Wet Tournament Champions Anthony Travel 
Mr. Bookstore 2005 Ms. Bookstore 2005 lim Kilroy "We Get Wet" Sara Gilloon, "Granny Style" MVP MVP Justin Funk, "We Get Wet" Suzanne Bellina, "Anthony Travel" 
2005 All-Bookstore Teams First Team First Team Marques Bolden Heather Van Hoegarden Ron Dokes 
Katy Flecky Chris Murphy Theresa Borton Harold Swanigan Sarah Liebscher Tom Witherspoon Kelly Howe 
Second Team Second Team Lenny Bert Anne Parrett Tim Caprio Emily Kretschmar Joe Nichol Maureen Spring 
Mike Ortiz Lizzy Chappelle Kieran Piller Danielle Hall 
All-Football Team John Carlson Jerome Collins THANK YOU TO ALL TOURNAMENT Gary Godsey PARTICIPANTS FOR MAKING THE 34TH Rhema McKnight EDITION OF THE TOURNAMENT A Rich Whitne SUCCESS! 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
nt:sday, April 27, 200S page 7 
_$>, 
Same: 
161 

NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) INTEL CP (INTC) SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) 
-91.34 

Down: Composite Volume: 1,964,367,050
• 
-0.92 -0.38 -5.23 -0.92 -1.14 

-17.95 -23.34 -60.65 -10.36 -29.41 -19.40 
-0.33  35.05  
-0.09  23.32  
-0.27  4.87  
-0.23  24.76  
-0.20  17.28  


30-YEAR BOND 
I 0-YEAR NOTE 5-YEAR NOTE 3-MONTH BILL +0.24 +0.38 +0.43 +0.71 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
+0.11 45.67 +0.16 42.67 +0.17 39.54 +0.20 28.52 
-0.37 54.20 +3.20 439.00 + 1.15 82.13 
Excha Rates 

YEN 106.3100 EURO 0.7711 POUND 0.5251 CANADIAN$ 1.2457 
N BRIEF 
pple fights unauthorized book 
SAN FHANCISCO-Apple Computer Inc. has taliated against thn publisher of an upcom­g unauthorized biography about chinf execu­
. Stev11 .Jobs by rmnoving dozens of other . chnology hooks sold by the publisher from pple stoms around the world. 
Appln rnmowd thn books last week from all of its stores aftnr failing in a monthlong pt to persuade .John Wiley & Sons not to lease "iCon Stnve .Jobs: The (;rnatest Seeond 
t in thn llistory of Business," which is to go saln within thn nnxt six weeks, the publish­said. 'lw book-spurning is only the latest attempt Appln nxncutives to crack down on writers 
o publish or distribute unauthorized or Tnt information about the eomputnr maker. a strategy that experts in brand manage­nt say is liknly to backfire, only adding to 
· notoriety of Appln's critics and nncourag­salns in countless otlwr bookstores. 
rsonalized stamps available 
.OS AN(;EJ.ES -Mt11r an initial tnst marmd 1:ornputnr prankstnrs, Stamps.c:om Inc. and 
• U.S. Postal Serviee arP again ofl'ering pnople ·.hane11 to put thnir pnrsonal photos on 
stamps. rww orw-ynar tnst period will begin on May tlw Santa Moniea-hased company said 
ay. Stamps haw also bnnn rndnsignnd to ide more room fi1r images, with a sheet of 'l-dass stamps selling for $1 h.99. 
. initial 7 1/2-week test last year sparknd rs for morn than 2.7 million stamps and 1d $2.3 million in revnnue for thn firm. sumnrs could imprint stamps with wedding vacation photos or pieturns of pnts and ehil­
nspite ef'forts by thn company to filtnr or otlwrwisn inappropriatn images, 1kst11rs wnrn able to order stamps using the · of such notorious pnopln as Unabombnr Kaczynski, former Teamsters boss .Jimmy Homanian dktator Nkolcw Ceauseseu oustod Yugoslav l'rnsident Slobodan 
. wil:. the S:LOOO images suhmittnd during tlw al t1~st. nirw inappropriate images wnrn into stamps, Stamps.com Chief ·utivo K1111 McBride said. 
Ayala to be tried for larceny 
Accused woman has history of legal battles, one against another fast food chain 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -The woman who was arn~sted after daiming she bit into a human finger in a bowl of Wendy's ehili waived nxtra­dition Tuesday, telling a judge she was eager to rnturn to California to face ehargns. 
Anna Ayala, 39, appearnd before tho same judge who issued a warrant for police to search her home outside Las Vegas on April 6. Hocords from that raid are 
seah~d. 

Outside court, Ayala's lawyer, Frederick Tait Ehler of San Jose, derided charges against his client as basnless. 
"Anna says they're ridiculous," Ehler said of tho charges of attempted grand larceny. "She's eager to go back to San Jose." 
Ayala was arrnsted late Thursday, and San Jose polien on Friday called her claim a hoax. Authorities said the attempted grand thnft eharge relatns to mil­lions in dollars of linaneial losses Wnndy's has sufl'ernd since news broke of her daim. 
Ayala maintains she bit down on a 1 1/2 inch-long finger fragment while din­ing March 22 with her fam­ily at a Wendy's in San Jose. She has denied plae­ing the digit in her bowl. 
Shn hired a lawyer and filed a claim against the franehise owner, but dropped the legal fight shortly after police searched her home. 
Ayala, who has main­tained her innocenoe, faces a maximum seven-year sentenee if eonvieted of the larceny charges, and at least another 16 months if eonvieted of· unrelatnd charges that she allegedly bilked a woman $11,000 

AP 

Anna Ayala talks with her attorney Rick Ehler as she appears at the Clark County Courthouse in Las Vegas. Ayala faces attempted grand theft charges for the mil­lions of dollars Wendy's lost as a result of her claim making headline news. 
over a soured real estate deal two years ago. 
Ayala has been involved in nearly a dozen legal bat­tles, including a sexual harassment suit against an employer, an auto dealer ovnr a ear and even anoth­er fast-food chain for food poisoning. 
Authorities have not yet identified who the finger belongnd to or Ayala's con­nection to it. 

A person with knowledge about the ease who spoke on condition of anonymity said the finger charge stemmed from San Jose police interviews with peo­ple who said Ayala described putting a finger in the chili, statements hol­stered by authorities announeing l~<>t week that it did not appear the finger had been simmering in chili. 
The company maintains that the finger did not enter the food chain in its ingredients. Employees at the San Jose franchise have all their fingers, and no suppliers of Wendy's ingre­dients rnported any hand or finger injuries, tlw com­pany said. 
Wendy's, basnd at Dublin, Ohio, is offering $100,000 for information loading to the origin of the fingor. 
Andersen settles with WorldCom 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK-DP.eimated auditing firm Arthur Andersen LLP paid $65 million Tuesday to settle elaims that it should have sniffed out the record-breaking fraud at the teleeomm unieatifilll~ company World Com. 
The settlement brought to $6.13 billion the amount investment banks, auditors and former board members of WorldCom have paid to settle historic dass-aetion daims by angry investors in the big teleeom company. . 
The combined settlement figure was deseribed by lawyers in the ease as nearly double the previous largest in a securities case. The deal halted a five-week-old trial, which was to go to the jury as early as next week. 
New York state Comptroller Alan llevesi, the load plaintiff'. said the settlenwnts have hnlped to recoup part of the "huge amount of' dam­agn" donn to the U.S. eeonomy by 
the corporate seandals of the go-go 1990s. 
"We will have zero tolerance for the kind of behavior that was exposed at trial here and elsewhere regarding misbehavior on the part of corporate leaders," Ilevesi told reporters outside court. 
llevesi had charged that Andersen, eager to please WorldCom executives and line its pockets, failnd investors by missing the enormous fraud at WorldCom in 2000 and 2001, when it served as independent auditor. 
WorldCom's accounting fraud was estimated at $11 billion by investi­gators _ the largest in U.S. history. It entered bankruptey but has since re-emerged as MCI Inc., based in Ashburn, Va. 
Lawyers for Andersen had described the firm as full of hard­working auditors who were duped by an elaborately eoneealed fraud carried out nntirely by corrupt WorldCom executives. 
lndend, in a statement Monday 
after the settlement was announced, Andersnn said it was settling only to avoid the c:osts of lit­igation, "and expressly denies any liability or wrongdoing." 
An irritatnd llevesi told reporters Tuesday that anyone who lwlinves tho settlement exonerates Andersen "should look in the mirror and say, 'What a fool! am."' 
"Their statemnnts are blatantly false," he said. lie then ticknd ofT a series of accounting scandals with which Andersen has been associat­ed, including WorldCom. Enron Corp. and Global Crossing Ltd .. 
Both sides suggested as the settle­ment was announced that they believed they would have won had the ease been decided by a jury. 
Leonard Barraek, lead eo-counsel for llevesi, says thn $6.13 billion in combined settlements is nearly dou­ble the previous rec:ord _ $3.2 bil­lion in an aeeounting fraud easn involving Cendant Corp. in :woo. 
Andersen, based in Chirago, is a shell or its formnr self. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

the responsibility residents took for their actions. 
Deposits 

"Usually students apologize, which is different from most
continued from page 1 

properties," Childs said. ''I'm impressed by the conduct of those 
Security deposits vary depend­who have been talked to by secu­ing on the apartment or home. In rity and come to see me instead general, the more student parties of me having to seek them out." take place on the property the Many Notre Dame students higher the deposit is. College understand their apartment or Park, for example, charges an house's security deposit policy entire month's rent....:... or approxi­and do not question the fairness mately $1,000-for the deposit, of their landlords in evaluating while residents in other complex­which damages the students must es only have to put down a few pay for. hundred dollars. "I've heard that many people 
"Our security deposit is $300," get screwed over on the security said Kim Childs, Property deposits," Saghafi said. "At the Manager at Castle Point. "$250 same time, though, some people 
can be refunded and  really trash their  
$50 is nonrefund­able for carpet cleaning."  "Not very often do we have to bill  houses, breaking windows, screens, doors, and put­ 
Historically, Turtle Creek has had the highest security  extra expenses to the residents.,,  ting holes in walls." However, other  
deposits of any South  students disagree  
Bend  apartments  Kim Childs  that  landlords  
due to its close loca­tion to campus and  property manager Castle Point  treat the students fairly, saying ten­ 

notoriety for parties. Turtle Creek's new management refused to comment on its security deposit policy, or to say how much it cost. 
Although policies vary between property owners, most tend to give back a large portion of the security deposit, minus any non­refundable charges. 
"I would say that most people get most of their deposit back if there's no damage or lots of garbage or hples punched in the doors," said Childs. "Not very often do we have to bill extra expenses to the residents." 
Even when there are problems, Childs said she was impressed by 
ants are over­charged for unnecessary or unrelated repairs. 
"The previous tenant in our apartment did not get most of his deposit back because they said they had to replace the carpet because of 1J. stain," said Lori Clark, who lives at College Park. "When he came to visit, the stain was still here so [the carpet] was not replaced. I do not think the landlord is fair, especially if they are charging for damages you did not cause or that they are not going to replace." 
Contact Jarrett Lantz at 
jlantz2@nd.edu 
Awards 
continued from page 1 
Although she has not been given her location yet, she expects she will be placed somewhere near Cologne. 
"We find out this week where we will be exactly," Helman said. "It probably won't be in a major city." 
Mai also studied in Innsbruck her sophomore and boasts equal­ly strong German roots. Her paternal and maternal grand­parents spoke German and she began studying the language in highschool. 
"My family is very German, we have a lot of German traditions," Mai said. "We throw our own Oktoberfest ... and I brew beer with my dad in the backyard." 
As a teaching assistant in Frankfurt, Mai, a political sci­ence and German language and literature major, will lead con­versation groups and teach les­sons herself occasionally, she said. 
"It really is a huge honor," Mai said. ''I'm really excited and my parent'> are very proud. My grandpa died last summer and he used to get so excited every time I went to Germany, so it is nice to sort of honor him." 
Mai said she would someday like to enter the Foreign Service or work for a company and be based in Germany. 
A second Notre Dame student, Stephanie Aberger, was also offered a Fulbright scholarship and planned to study at Warsaw University and pursue a research project on the Holocaust in Poland. After care-

Are vou asophomore Accounting Maior looking tor great pav and a tremendous business experience;~ 
If so, Get aJob at The Observ~r! The Observer is now accepting applications lOr Controller! 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu or Michael Flanagan at mflanag 1@nd.edu. 


----------------------------------------~-~------­
Wednesday, April 27, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Algerian convicted of plotting bomb to be sentenced 
As.mciatcd Press 
SI~ATTLE -Five ynars al'tnr hPing arrnstnd with a trunkful ol' bomb-making materials at thn U.S. bordnr, Ahmed Hessam has prowd a remarkable resource in the nation's ntliwLc; to understand and eradicatP tnrrorists. 
Ito told inwstigators !'rom many countries about the locations of terror cells and camps, who ran them and how they operated. 
But a.c; Hessam, 37, awaiLc; sen­teneing Wednesday, prosecutors 

MSPS PRESENTS: 
FIRST FRIDAY LUNCH 
4-29-05 
12:30 PM 
BALLROOM 

Featuring Corporate Co-Sponsor: 
GENERAL MILlS 
ATTN: ALL BUSINESS MAJD'RS 
Marketing, Management, Economics 
Our target will include: College of Business College of Letters & Sciences Juniors-graduating '05 or '06 Sophomores -'06 or '07 
Target students should realize that this is the Sales division of General Mills 
Preparation for Fall 2005 Positions 

What are you doing next fall? 

· Get a head start on your career with a one-year Accelerated MBA from Illinois Institute of Technology's Stuart Graduate School of Business 
If you're a senior-or recent grad-this program gives you the business skills you need to land a great job in virtually any business environment. 
Our unique advantages include 
· 16 course programs · Internationally recognized faculty · AACSB-accredited · Convenient downtown Chicago location 
Call I 312.906.6576 E-mail! admissions@stuart.iit.edu RSVP I www.stuart.iit.edu/openhouse 
say he could have donn morn. · 
Hessam, an Algnrian convicted of plotting a millnnnium-nve bombing at the l.os i\ngnles air­port, stopped cooperating with prosecutors in 2003 when he realized the Justice Dnpartment would not recommend a sentnnce shorter than 27 years, they say. 
Prosecutors now say that with­out his continued help, they may have to drop terrorism charges against two men: Abu Doha, who was accused of orchestrating the bomb plot, and Samir Ait Mohamed, also charged in the scheme. They are awaiting extra­dition to the United States ­Doha in Britain, Mohamed in Canada. 
The government is seeking 35 years behind bars for Hessam. Ressam's public defenders are asking for 12 1/2 -and say Hessam is willing to continue cooperating, but doesn't remem­ber as much as he used to. 
The government does not have to drop the chargl~S against Doha and Mohamed because it can introduce Hessam's previous statements about them, the defense lawyers wrote in court papPI'S. 
A psychiatrist who evaluatnd Hessam for the dnfnnsn blanwd the govnrnrnent f'or his intransi­gence. Ollidals took months to got Hessam out of' solitary confine­ment after his mental condition began to deteriorate, said Dr. Stuart Grassian. 
"If those problems developed and hardened during a pnriod of stringnnl eonlinnment. the soonnr we got him out of' them tiHl bnt­ter," said Grassian, who taught lilr nearly thrnn decades at llarvard University Medical School. "We wanted him to be away !'rom that to aUow his mental state to soften again." 
Hessam was arrested in Port Angnles in December 1999 as he drove off a ferry from British Columbia. A customs worker noticed Hessam seemed nervous. Agents found explosives more powerful than TNT and digital watches that could be used as timers. 
Hnssam was convicted in April 2001 on explosives charges and conspiracy to eommit terrorism. Fadng up to 130 years in prison, hn began to talk. 
r------------------~ 
25%0FF 
REGULAR PRICE 
PACKAGES AND LOTIONS 
.~QR STUQENTS WITH VALID ID. 
.hi7"CK't:l'CE8! "\J'IIID rO.:t....'\~'\1\.~ 
.B'Eenrvu; bH'-C~ 

II:»~ c: ~1c ~ 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I


IT'S MORE FUN IN THE DARK. 
I I


Expires 4/30/05 
-------------· 
Castle Point Presents 
Splash Bash 2005 


-B&ach -l May 7, 2005 
rvolleyball .._ __ JouJ_nameJllS_.' £...~­
End of the school vear party! 
Plo 
Eating Contest 

Games & Prizes 

Food & Karaoke 
Tell and bring your friends! 
DVD )' 
Pluyers 
C
-~;~;-~ 
Contests 1 
-------·· 

With more info. To come..... 
This year we are hosting a "Splash Bash" for our Castle Point resi­dents that will be leaving us for the end of the school year! We want to show you how much we appreciate you and hope to see you again next year! The party will be on May 7th from 3:00 pm to 9:00 pm. There will be a billiards tournament, pie eating contest, tug of war, beach volleyball contest, basketball tournaments, to name a few! We will be awarding prizes like Sony MP3 Players, DVD play­ers and more! Tune up your voice for our karaoke contest and come hungry -we'll be grilling up a summer feast! We hope you'll invite your friends (they do not need to live here) to share the fun! Stop by the office toda'y to sign your team up for the contests. The Winning Team Members will all receive awesome prizes!!! BYOB (we'll pro­vide the mixers). BEWARE we will be checking !D's. 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, April27, 2005 
Surrogate mother gives birth to quints 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -A surrogate moth­er hoped to give a childless couple a baby of their own. Tuesday, she gave them five. 
Teresa Anderson, 25, delivered quintuplets -all boys -by Caesarean section. One of the babies was born with a defective heart; the others were said to be doing fine. 
"Quintuplets are very, very diffi­cult to carry," said Anderson's obstetrician, Dr. John Elliott. "To do that for someone else is extraordinary." 
Elliott said Anderson was able to walk into the delivery room on her own-something he'd never seen before. 
"She's happy. She's smiling now. She's relieved," said Anderson's husband, Jerad, several hours after the surgery at Banner Good Samaritan Medical Center. 
The babies were delivered in just five minutes and were named Enrique, Jorge, Gabriel, Victor and Javier by their genetic par­ents, Luisa Gonzalez and Enrique Moreno. 
Gabriel was the largest, at 3 pounds, 15 ounces; Javier the smallest, at 3 pounds, 7 ounces. Enrique was 3 pounds, 14 ounces; Jorge 3 pounds, 13 ounces; and Victor 3 pounds, 8 ounces. 
Anderson had agreed to carry the couple's child and was to receive $15,000 -money she hoped would help her own family. Five embryos were implanted to increase the chances that at least one of them would take hold. Aft1~r diseovering all live embryos were developing, Anderson declined to accept any payment from the couple because of the expenses they will faxe. 
A hospital spokesman said he dido't know how the medical costs were being covered but believed they were part of the surrogacy agreement. 
For Gonzalez and Moreno, the births were the culmination of more than a decade of trying to start a family. 
"We were always looking for just one," said Moreno, who immigrated from Mexico 16 years ago. "!fit's live, it's for a reason." 
Gonzalez said she began to cry when she saw the first baby, Enrique, delivered. ''I've been waiting for this for a long time," she said. 
Moreno is a landscaper, and Gonzalez will be a stay-at-home mother. The couple said they are not sure how they will handle the !inancial burden of the new brood in their three-bedroom suburban Gilbert home. "We'll do the best we can. I know God will help us," Gonzalez said. 
said. According to Schultz, "the
Malloy 

voice of Father Malloy has continued from page 1 been very influential" in 
Catholic higher education. She during Malloy's tenure and the cited Malloy's meetings with strengthening of bonds Fort Wayne-South Bend between Saint Mary's and Bishop John D'Arcy regarding Notre Dame. a 1998 proposal for the imple­
"Obviously he's provided sig­mentation of Ex Corde nificant leadership there, and Ecclesiae, Pope John Paul II's I think the relationships 1990 statement on Catholic between Saint Mary's and higher education. Notre Dame have continued to Malloy, a critic of the pro­be very positive in regards to posal dealing with campus the kinds of opportunities ministries and the role of edu-· available to students at both cational institutions in schools," said Linda Timm, Catholicism, rejected the man­vice president for Student date as "an instrument, how­Affairs. "I think in my time, ever ineffective, which has been the last 10 to control what is 
"We can't be where
years only, we have certainly taught and writ­brought him clos­been developing some benefi­ten" in the col­we are in any of er to the Saint cial administrative connec­lege setting in Mary's campus
the institutions 
tions [with Notre Dame]." the Jan. 30, 1999 as a result.
here without the 
These connections flourished issue of "One of the during the Saint Mary's presi­"America," a support ofthe influences dency of Marilou Eldred, as Jesuit opinion [Malloy has had
other." 

administrators from both journal. on Saint Mary's schools met on a regular basis. His writings is] that he contin­
Judy Fean
Vice President for Mission and speeches on ues to try to build Sister Roseanne Schultz called the matter influ­Director of Campus relationships these meetings "a very posi­enced Catholic Ministries with Saint tive collaboration." education Mary's, and it
Saint Mary's 
said Malloy was committed to the relationship between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
"During his tenure as presi­dent, Father Malloy made clear his commitment to coop­erate with Saint Mary's College," she said. "Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame have a shared history that is more than 160 years old, and Father Malloy treated Saint Mary's as a peer institution." 
Malloy delivered the homily at Mooney's January inaugu­ration ceremony, which, according to Director of Campus Ministries Judy Fean, was greatly impressive and 
was certainly 

quite an honor to have him preside at the cele­bration mass for the inaugura­tion of Carol Ann Mooney," she said. "Certainly having him here during the inauguration he spoke so highly of women's education and of the sisters, and I think that's an important piece [of the College]. His emphasis on women in the Church, that's been a value." 
Fean also said she felt Malloy understood the impor­tance of the University and College working together. 
"We can't be where we are in any of the institutions here without the support of the other," she said. 
Malloy left an indelible mark on Saint Mary's during his tenure at Notre Dame, both professionally and personally, Timm said. 
"I have always found Father Malloy to have a wonderful sense of humor," she said. "I think he brought some keen insight to some tough issues at the times they arose." 
Egan said Malloy's personal­ity made him a good leader for the schools, and that Saint Mary's students and faculty alike will be sad to see his tenure end. 
"He's a quiet, unassuming man whose presence is felt by his caring and concern and interest in students, and work on the national scene and international scene," Egan said. "I find him very unas­suming, and for a leader of universities very kind and thoughtful, and I think our students admire him very much." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
"The administration of Saint Mary's and the administration of Notre Dame have been meeting regularly for the last six or so years each fall and each spring in a sense of col­laboration, looking at issues, areas that we can work together, and I think that's been very beneficial," she nationwide, including at Saint Mary's, which Malloy eagerly collaborated with on the subje'ct. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney, previously a vice president and asso<;iate provost at Notre Dame who worked closely with Malloy, 

Irish Sports Report is your inside guide to all there is to 
know about Notre Dame sports. With exclusive photos, award­winning national writers and unmatched "on-the-ground" resources, Irish Sports Report takes you beyond the game and behind the scenes -insight you can't get anywhere else. Plus, our Web site provides the latest news and makes it easy to access any archived articles you may have missed. Irish Sports Report is a must-have subscription for all true Irish sports fans. 

----------------------~---------------------------. ···---­
Wednesday, April 27, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page II 
Bush to open new-oil refineries 
ior administration ollicials said 
Associated Press Tuesday. W/\SIIIN(iTON -Prnsident The officials, who spoke on Bush is oll'nring to make dosed condition of anonymity, said military bases available for the president will outline his now oil ndinnries and will ask proposals in a speech Congrnss to providn a "risk Wednesday in which he intends insurance" to tho nuclear to emphasize how new tech­industry against regulatory nologies can be used to ease dnlays to spur construction of the energy supply crunch. new nudear power plants, sen-The White llouse acknowl­
....... 
!!II 

edged that none of the initia­tives was exp11cted to provide any short-term relief from soaring gasoline and oil prices. It is Bush's second speech on energy within a week, reflect­ing the growing concern within the White House over the polit­ical fallout over high energy prices. 
The officials said the presi­dent believes the country needs 
a diverse supply of energy, including expansion of aggres­sive nuclear power. There has not been a new commercial nuclear reactor ordered in the United States since 1973. 
Some utilities have indicated they may be interested in building a new reactor, per­haps as early as 2010, but industry officials say they need assurance of a smooth regula­tory process to get financing. Nuclear power accounts for about 20 percent of the coun­try's electricity. 
Bush will call on the Energy Department to develop a pro­posal for a federal "risk insur­ance" plan that would kick in if there were lengthy delays in licensing of a new eommercial power reactor. The officials acknowledged that such a pro­gram would need congression­al action. They said they eould 
not speculate on its cost. The president also will out­line a proposal to work with local communities to build refineries on dosed military sites, hoping that will encour­age construction of new refineries and ease the short­
~IJ!m!~lll age of U.S. oil relining capacity. 
fRANCE 
Hu111an rights group condemns 'torture' act 
U.S. assures 'humane' operations in military 
Associated Press 
STR/\SBOUHG -Europe's human rights body condemned the United States on Tuesday for using what it termed "torture" on terror suspects held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and it called on European countries not to cooperate in interrogating Guantanamo detainees. 
A Pentagon spokesman said the United States was running "a safe, humane and professional detention operation at Guantanamo that is providing valuable information in the war on terror." 
In a resolution, the Council of Europe also urged the United States to cease the practice of secret detentions and to investi­gate all instances of unlawful treatment of detainees at the naval base in eastern Cuba. 
"The circumstances surround­ing detentions by the US/\ at Guantanamo Bay show unlawful­ness on grounds including the torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment of detainees," said the resolution, adopted by the Council's Parliamentary Assembly. 
Wl'file supporting the United States in its efforts to light ter­rorism, the resolution said Washington had "betrayed its own highest prineiplns in the zeal with which it has attempt1~d to pursue the war on terror." 
The U.S. government has denied using torture at the basn, but investigations into alleged abuse there are ongoing. 
"U.S. policy condemns and prohibits torture," Pentagon spokesman Lt. Cmdr. Flex Plexieo said. "U.S. personnel are required to follow this policy and applicable law." 
He said Guantanamo detainees receive adequate shelter and clothing, culturally appropriate meals, the Quran, prayer beads, access to mail and reading matn­rials, and medical care. 
/\!so Tuesday, the Pentagon announced it transferred two Guantanamo detainees to the custody of the government of Belgium. It released no details on their identities. 
!\bout 520 prisoners remain at Guantanamo. Some 234 have left: 167 have been released out­right, and 67 have been trans­ferred to the control of other governments: 29 to Pakistan, nine to the United Kingdom, seven each to France and Hussia, five to Morocco, four to Saudi Arabia, two to Belgium and one each to Spain, Sweden, Kuwait and Australia. 
........~r..--~~---­
us­
% I

~4,00Do~ APR PLUS 
POWERTRAIN
CASH ALLOWANCE 
LIMITED

FINANCINGt 
ssoo -s4,000 depending on model 
WARRANTYtt
on select models 
WHEN YOU BUY OR LEASE ANY NEW CHRYSLER, DODGE OR JEEP. VEHICLE. 
FOR MORE DETAILS VISIT: dC-COIIegegrad.COm 
CHRYSLER 
~
~ LlOLlGE 
JeeP.
INSPIRATION COMES STANDARD 
-~-----------------­
TI-·:IE 0HSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, April27, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
The lndqmulnrt, Daily New~j~aper St!rving NrUN DtJme nNd Salnt MaryS 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds A'iST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574). 63 I -4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefC!dire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation perio-ds. A subscription to The Observtt is $100 For one academic ~ear; $$5 fin one semes[er. 
The Obsrrvtr is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining HaJI Send addr¢SS cortec.cions ro~ Notre Dame, IN 465'56·0779 The: Observer PtriodicaJ postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining full 
Nom~ Dame, lN 4'6'>56..077~ 
The Observer i.s .a member or the Associated Press: AP .r:eprodw::tion rights an: 
t~ttvaf. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Welcome to hell on earth: 
Hear the cries of northern Uganda 
The people of northern Uganda have no 
place to rest their head. "Since 1986, we . 
have only had restless nights," an old 
womftnat Ader camp told me. "We are 
starving to death. Our children have been 
abducted, our daugh­

ters raped and our Peter 
entire villages Quaranto 
destroyed. We have no 

future. By the time you A Call to Action 
return, we will proba­
bly all be dead." 

The woman is right. Over the last 18 
years, the people of northern Uganda 
have died and are continuing to tlie 
amidst silence from the international 
community. Since 1986, the north of ·Uganda has been ravaged by a war that 
has left tens of thousands dead, over 
25,000 children abducted and more than 
1.6 million people now living in internally­displaced peoples (IDP) camps of the most squalor conditions. 
Images speak louder than statistics ­
viciously malnourished children lying 
naked on the dirt with flies all over their 
bodies, tents made of plastic bags housing 
more than 10 people, elderly wasting 
away in their own feces, 12-year-old girls 
forced into prostitution lor as little as 500 
shillings (30 cents), a people living in con­
stant destabilizing fear. 

As I walked through these camps, I was 
horrified by these images and the stories 
that followed them. I wanted to ery and 
vomit. The situation in northern Uganda 
really is hell on earth. And no one is even 
doing anything about it. 

In most of the camps I visited, there is 
no government or international presence 
to provide food and relief to these people. 
In some eases, the government has not 
even recognized that camps-with thou­
sands and thousands of people-exist. 
As one man told me, "We are forgotten. 
The government has successfully hidden 
this war. We will die and no one will ever 
know what happened here." 
This horror is the result of a vicious 18­year-old civil/proxy war that has pitted the government against the Lord's 
Resistance Army, an apocalyptic-spiritual insurgency seeking to overthrow the cur­rent regime. The LRA has waged war on the civilian population, whiln the govern­ment has simply contained the conflict, lacking any commitment or will to end the war. 
Since 1994, the war has become more complex and gruesome as the LHA has filled its ranks by abducting, brainwash­ing and manipulating children ranging from ages seven to 17. In some cases, the children are initially forced to kill their own family or burn down homes lUll of as many as 20 people. The LRA commanders violently instill fear into them, transform­ing children into the most vicious killers. 
The accounts of the gruesome and hor­rific ways in which such children have then killed are immensely disturbing. When I interviewed one 17 -year-old escaped abduetee, he told me sickening accounts of his abduction. Yet even more disturbing was watching the pain as this boy recalled the dark memories. He kept looking to the floor, his hand shaking and his neck twitching. The situation really is hell on earth. 
Perhaps the most disturbing element is how the war has gone on for so long with no serious action from the Ugandan gov­ernment or international community. Sinee 1986, President Museveni has insisted on a "military solution" to the war, though his approach has only further marginalized northerners, exacerbated mistrust and fueled more violence. 
Since 2001 when the United States branded the LRA a "terrorist group," the Ugandan government has been able to abrogate its responsibility for the war. Heceiving U.S. military aid, Museveni has sought to defeat Kony instead of engaging in serious peace talks. Yet, alinost all · independent observers believe such talks are the key to peace. 
The people suffering in the north have completely lost faith in the government, so they are thus appealing to the internation­al community for help as their last hope. "This government does not care about us. 
Our only hope is to the international com­munity to eome in and end this war." One young man told me, "When you go back to your country, tell the people that they are our last hope. If the international community does not aet, we will all die." 
Unfortunately, he is right. The govern­mont will only eommit to negotiations if there is serious pressure from the inter­national community, most especially the United States. One political analyst told me, "The United States is the only country Museveni eannot ignore. If the U.S. wants this war to end, it will end." 
If the American people demanded the 
U.S. government utilize their dout in Uganda to save lives and end a war, it would happen. And it should happen. 
This summer, I will work with the recently-formed Africa f<aith and Justice Network to launch a campaign to expose the silence and complicity of the U.S. gov­ernment in this subtle genocide, while pushing the government to aet for the peaceful rnsolution of the war. With enough support and commitment, this campaign, called the Uganda Conflict Aetion Network (Uganda-CAN) can have a massive impact on the lives of Ugandans living on the brink of death. 
The people of northern Uganda are cry­ing out for your and my attention, for the world's attention. For too long, this war has been hidden and ignored, resulting in a situation most appropriately described as hell on earth. I ask you to join the Uganda-CAN as we demand an end to this war. The stakes could not be higher and the cause more worthy. 
Peter Quaranta is a junior international peace studies major. He writes from Kampala, Uganda, where he is currently researching the war in northern Uganda. Read his running commentary from Uganda at www.peterquaranto. blogspot. com. Contact Peter at pquarant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Keeping the faith 
I did not grow up in a "Notre Dame home," nor had I ever attended a Notre Dame football game before I was accepted into this University. I became an ardent football fan watching my frrst Super Bowl for the 1988 season, and I had been to a few major college football games before my first day of class as a collegian, including a prominent bowl. 
So even before moving into my hall freshman year I was extremely excited about being part of such a football-crazed school. However, after talking with my fellow classmates and attending several games, I was quickly disappointed in the lack of product on the field, but more importantly the so-called pas­sionate student body surrounding the games. In talking with my incoming class, it seemed many had never been football fans until they could call themselves a Domer, and it was very appar­ent as a majority of the student body cheered loudly every time our offense had a 3rd and long (which was quite common back then). 
Nonetheless, over the years I persisted and kept the faith in Notre Dame football. It was difficult since Notre Dame gave me little to cheer about with Davie at the helm, the terribly embar­
rassing scandal with O'Leary (a Yankees fan), signing of poor 
recruiting classes, the transferring of quality players, the firing 
of Willingham, and of course, the blindly arrogant assumption ·of landing Urban Meyer. 
Still, as a soon-to-be grad, I keep the faith, and my point to the incoming newly baptized football fans of Notre Dame is this: Wrap yourselves in the Notre Dame spirit, but please, by all means, educate yourself about football, and that means leaning about other places and football teams besides our beloved Irish. Separate the rhetoric and think for yourself so the next time a USC fan says something to you, you will be able to respond with something other than the fight song -you will be doing your University and Our Lady proud. Good luck Charlie Weis. 
Daniel Tarsha senior off campus April26 

News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY
Kate Antonacci Mike Gilloon Katie Laird Dan Tapetillo 
"I think that the University's in good 

··~ ~·· b ··t t· tt
What are you doing for the

Lisa Schultz Ryan Kiefer 
condition, and I think that Father Jenkins 
< ~.u.····.iml; aJ.e: :er
summer? 

has put together an excellent team as
Viewpoint Scene 
a. Internship 23% 

part ofhis leadership group, and he'll
b. Summer Joh 37%

Becca Rosswurm Becca Saunders 
c. Service Project 3% 

develop his own personal style. I see no 
d. Summer School 18%

Graphics Illustrator 
reason why Notre Dame can't 
e. Travelling 10% 

.to the Editor at
-~ ·• . . ·•· ... ·•· ....• -~· .. ... . . . ·• ... 
flourish in the next period ofits history. "
Mike Harkins Graham Ebetsch 
f. Other 10% *Poll appears courtesy of 

Father Edward Malloy 
;:i www.ndsmcobserver.com
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Outgoing University President 
and is based on II Sresponses. 


THE 0HSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 27, 2005 page 13 

Focus on more 
than academics 
before you leave 
William Shakespeare once said, "It is not in the stars to hold our dostiny, but in ourselves." 
Basically, Willy's quote is acknowledging the fact that if you want something, you're going to have to work hard for it and go after it yourself (unless you have connections, of' course, in 
whil:h caso you're ahead of' the game and vnry luc.ky l. 
Bneause of' this, it absolutnly boggles my mind why many eollnge students ehooso to spm1d their sumnwrs basking in the su1i wlwn they could bn basking in, well, tho glow 
oI' lltHl resr.n n t I igh ts. 
Thn point of' this rant is that an internship is quito possibly thn most valuable real-world nxperiiHH~P you ean havn during your eollege l~arPnr. 
Joanna Cltrinbaum 
Penn State 
University 
The Daily 
Collegian 

I would have loved to have written a "Treasure your time at 
I'Pilll State" snnior eolumn or a crazy "The best moments I 
won't rnnwmlwr at Penn Statn" eolurnn. but I figured it was 
mon~ hmwlkial !'or you to rnad something that might actually 
he worthwhiln to you. My advice, whieh eomes in two parts, is 
get involved and get experience. 
For those of' you that have done this or are currently doing 
it, I applaud you. 
You're the o11es who are going to be holding top positions in your field somn day. For those of you who haven't done this, you should probably do something about it now while you still can. 
II' you haven't already, join elubs and activities related to 
your major. 
II' this doesn't excite you (I don't know why it wouldn't since your major is most likely what you're going to be doing with your lil'e), participate in an activity that interests you and ofl'ers opportunities for leadership positions, such as a Thon eommittee, an IM sports team, or even a l'ralernity or sorority. 
Volunteer work is also a good thing. Heck, join clubs both related and unrelated to your major! Doing this shows that you're a well-rounded person. 
But don't got involvod in an activity just to have something to put on your resume-you should have a genuine interest in what you're doing. 
Now that you're involved, get experience by applying for internships. 
Internships are not only valuable in that they give you the closost experience to holding a position in your field without actually being an employoe, they can also show you that you may not want to go into that field, or at least that aspect of your field, al'tor all. 
For example, if you had asked me what I wanted to do with my life a year ago, I would have said "women's magazine jour­nalism." Last sumnwr, after reporting for a women's magazine for three months and helping the magazine's copy editors for orw day out of those three months during my internship, I realized that I liknd copy editing better than reporting. 
l'vn been copy editing at Tho Daily Collegian since the fall and have lovod every minute of' it. 
This st11nnwr I have a copy editing internship at a newspa­per, so I'll see how that goes. If the newspaper part doesn't work out, rnaybn I'll end up copy editing at a women's maga­zine. 
If' it wernn't for my experience at the Collegian, though, hoth as a reporter and a eopy editor, I don't know how I would have landnd oither of my intornships. 
Good grades arn important, but most potential employers want to know what you'vo been doing to prepare for a future in your field. 
I'll always rmnember what tho managing oditor of' the mag­azine said during our interview when shn was considoring me for tho intnrnship: "So many peoplo come in lwro wanting to intern, but they havo no p,ublislwd elips or experience. What dons that toll me'!" 
1\ven if you discover that you want to focus on somothing nlsn in tlw future during your internship, you will atlnast have a variety of experioncos in your field to pu.t on your resume. 
And that's still just as bennl'ir.ial as having focused on only o1w thing throughout your intornships. In conclusion, as far as marketing yourself in your field, being expnrinnced is good; being innxpnrioncod is bad. II' nvnn onn p1~rson has lnarned something from this column, I'm happy. 
If' not. hny, it's your life. No mattor how you fen! about fate, only you can control your own destiny. So don't rely on the stars-reach for thom. 
This column originally appeared in the April 26 issue of The /Jaily Collegian, the daily publication at Penn State University. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Cell phone etiquette checkup 
You sen them everywhere. Walking up the hill in between classes. Walking on State Street. Even working out at the gym. And they're usually by themselves, yet they all have one thing in com­mon. A cell phone is suitably glued to an ear, be it bedazzled or not. I have Lindsay wondered, however, just Zuckerman 
whom are these people talking to? What is so important at 
University of
10:58 a.m. be foro elass to be 
Wzsconsin
talking exeitedly on the phone 
The Badger
about nothing, but loudly 
Herald
enough so that everyone can hear? 
In a recent New York Times artiele, a profnssor of communication at Hutgers University was interviewed concerning classroom research he had eonducted bas1~d on people talk­ing on the phone around you. Surprisingly enough, 93 percnnt of rm;pondents in one of the dassrooms admitted to making "fake calls," in which they were simply pretnnding to talk to Dick or Jane or whoever their imaginary friend was at the spur of the moment. 
I was in New York last Deeembnr and remem­bnr boing in a bank where a man was silting on a chair in the lobby-area talking on the phone, changing the names of tho people he was talking to, fighting with them one minute, laughing the next. IIere was a prime example of someone using the cell phone as a decoy, but this was pos­sibly a man with schizophrenia, not a eollege stu­dent on his or her way to class. The thought of actually making up a conversation boggles my mind. Why is it nowadays people aren't comfort­able enough being alone, or get bored with them­selves so quickly they jump into a fantasy-type conversation for the 8-minute walk to lunch? 
I decided to ask a random sample of college students if' they actually ever made up conversa­tions to "blend in" to their surroundings or what­ever the purpose may have boen. One girl told me "I don't really like to walk alone. Having awk­ward little stop-and-chats with the people that you sometimes say 'hi' to, but not always. It's just easier to avoid it." Another said, "If I ean't get a hold of anyone specifk, I'll leave messages for a lot of people so at least I'm not pretending to call people. But sometimes when I leave those mes­sages and the person calls mo baek, I rnally havo nothing to say to them so Ijust won't answnr. So I guess that's just as bad." 
What may be worse than the clnvorly dubbed "eellphonies" by The Times is cell phone oti­quettn. I'm sure you'vo seen a group of friends walking down the street all talking on their cell phones at the same time. Then what's the point of actually spending time with sornnone? It's bad enough to answer your phorw while you're out to eat with a group of pnople or even on a date, but when someone goes as far as to keep it placnd on the table, we've got a problem. Unless Hollywood's calling to sign you for the nnxl big film, turn it oil'. 
I believe that more people nowadays are con­cerned with their rnlationships with their pieces of technology-Blackberries and Sidekicks indudnd. Unless you'rn in tho eorporal1~ world, what's thn importance of eho1~king your n-rnail via coli phonn during brnakf'ast, or instant mes­saging away from your computer? Thorn are evon thosn peopln who can't put thnir phone down even at the gym. I know if you've been in a cardin room recently, you've sem1 at least 01111 person talking away on thnir phonn. As an avid runner mysell', I for one know that it's a lot nasinr to cateh your brnath if you'rn not speaking. Not to mention annoying everyone around you. 
I'm pretty sure that if you leave your phone at home for a day, the world won't come to an oml. Try it. You may actually bfl surprisnd how nie1~ it is not to bn able to bn reaehed at all times. And you may also lake a little time to enjoy yours. 
This column originally appeared in the April 27 issue ofThe Badger 1/erald, the daily publica­tion at the University ofWisconsin. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of'11ze Obser11er. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Want to })@ 3{;olumnist, copy editor or W t'~lor for Viewpoint? 

i~)Vp,gint,1@nd.edu 




By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Writer 

Kingdom of Heaven (May 6) 
The Good: "Gladiator's" Hidley Scott returns to familiar territory, though this time the setting is the 12th century Crusades. Scott is an excellent director, so expectations can safely be set fairly high for this epic summer action film. "Gladiator," while undeserving of its Best Picture statuette, was still a cut above the summer fare and thus it's not unreasonable to hope that "Kingdom of Heaven" will be the most rousing and intelligent block­buster of the summer. 
The Bad: The hope is that Scott doesn't rest on his laurels and re-hash this as "Gladiator: The Crusades." The presence of Liam Neeson and Jeremy Irons is a good thing, but on the whole, this isn't nearly as strong of a cast as Scott has had in the past. Orlando Bloom is a largely untested actor and has not yet shown the presence and charisma of the director's past leads which include Hussell Crowe, Harrison Ford and Sigourney Weaver. 
The Ugly: Can Orlando Bloom carry a film by himself? That's the real question of "Kingdom of Heaven," which is banking on the young actor's star power. Johnny Depp stole the show in "Pirates of the Carribbean," so it is natural to consider "Kingdom of Heaven" as Bloom's first real test as a lead actor. It remains to be seen whether or not "Kingdom of Heaven" will turn Bloom into a true superstar, but if any film is going to do it this will likely be the one. 
Moment to Look For: The inevitable "Cecil B. DeMille" shot, where Ridley Scott shows off just how massively impressive his set is, and how high his production values are. 
Star Wars: Episode Ill (May 19) 
The Good: Twenty-eight years after the first "Star Wars" film hit theaters, George Lucas finally completes his six-part serial. Lucas promises that this will be the darkest and most violent of the series, which is increasingly appealing after the kiddie-fare of "Episode 1: The Phantom Menace" and the cringe-worthy romance of "Episode II: Attack of the Clones." 
Steven Spielberg's newest film special effect blockbuster "War of the Worlds" stars Dakota Fanning, left, and Tom Cruise, right. 



THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, April 27, 2005 
page 15 
================================================================~ 
have potential 
return to the silverscreen this summer 
lilm. 
The Ugly: Jlrank Millnr, whoso comie book 1:rPdits include tho sPminal Batman comic "ThP Dark Knight Hnturi1s" and "Sin City," wrotl' llll nxcnllnnt origin story l'or Batman, "Batman: Year Orw." i\f'tnr llw undeniable su1Tnss ol' tlw lilrn V«'rsion ol' "Sin City," it's a bit of shamn that this film is not a direct adaptation of MiiiPr's graphir novel. 
Monwnt to look for: Cary Oldman as a young CommissiOIIIW c;ordon, Michael Caino as i\ll'rPd and Morgan Jlnwman as l.ueius h1x. This is tlw host. supporting east any Batman film has ever had and is in the hands ol' a wry capable din~etor. 
War of the Worlds (June 29) 
Tht• c;ood: Stnvnn Spitdlwrg practically invnntPd tlw SLJJnnwr blockbuster and with "War ol' tlw Worlds" he rnturns with OIW or thn higgnst. hudgnts ol' all limn :...._ an osti­matod $200 million -and a plot litnrally out of II.C. Wnlls. 
The Bad: SpiPlborg and l>reamworks havP lwld rnurh ol' this 111m as elosn to tho rhPst as possihlo. whieh moans that tho lrailor, while interesting, doosn't givo mueh away. Furthermore, tlw film seems to stray from II.C. Wdls original novel, undorstand­ahly. and Orson Wtdlns' infamous radio play. Spinlherg also stwms to be rolying on tlw pownr of Torn CruisP, as lw is delinitnly lll'ing mark«'tnd as tho undoniablo star. 
Tho Ugly: Can Spielberg top sueh past sunHJWr hits as "Jurassic Park," "E.T." and ' ,,.".Ja;ws'"! Jt's. bu~n a few yours sincn Spielberg has truly dnlivt~red an awP-inspir­
ing lilm, as his last row have bonn relatively modest ineluding "Tho Torminal" and "Cateh Mn If You Can." It's limo to lind out if Spinlhorg still romnmhers how to play in tlw house he helped build. i\udienees eer­tainly hopn that ho can dolivnr on past promisos with a truly inspiring blockbuster. 
Moment to Look For: The actual appoar­aru~o of alinns and some of the best spedal ofTnets that $200 million ean buy. 
The Fantastic Four (July 8) 
The Good: One of Marvel's best franchises is brought to life by director Tim Story. "Tho Fantastic Four" looks to be more fun than somn of Marvel's other superlwro films -"X-Men" in partieular -but it rmnains to be seen whethor or not it ean 1·tmch the benchmark set by "Spidorman 2." 
;\summer is not eoniplete without a super­hero movie or two and betwenn "Tho Fantastic Four" and "Batman Begins" t:omie hook and adventure fans should bn more than satisfied. 
The Bad: Tim Story's previous directorial credits include last yoar's abysmal "Taxi." Seretmwriter Michaol Frctnce wrote two other superhero films, "Hulk" and "The Punislwr," neither of which wern very good. In a sumnwr with a lot of high-potential films "Tho Fantastie Four" could be eom­plotely lost in tho shul11e. 
The lJgly: Tho casting lwre is question­able with loan GrufTudd and Jessica i\lba in lnad rolos. Furthermore, a l'ilm like "The Fantastie Four" will be judged on its special el'f'ocls. If the CGI is passable then this could be quito a fun summer 111m-if they are not, it could be a disaster. 
Moment to Look For: The spaceship crash which grants the Four their powers has tho potontial to be spectacular. 
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (July 
15) 

The Good: Tim Burton directs Johnny Depp in the second adaptation of Hoald Dahl's novel, which the direetor promises will be closer in tone and spirit to the book. Unlike the original 1971 !11m, this version will not be a musieal, though it will have musical elements courtesy of Burton's long­time eollaborator Danny Elfman. 
The Bad: Burton's vision has always been a litt.le off-kilter, which might not sit well with younger audiences. The director has had several past summer successes, but not a truly great blockbuster since 1989's "Batman." llis last remake was the barely passable "Planet of the Apes," but he may be slightly better suited to Dahl's material. 
The Ugly: Charlie and the Chocolate Factory will likely live or die based on Dopp's performance which looks to be just as quirky as ever. The two have worked together in the past, often with great suc­eoss in "Edward Scissorhands" and "Ed Wood," but whether or not Depp can embody Willy Wonka remains a mystery. Gene Wilder's performance in the original was so mPmorable that it's hard to imagine anyone -even an actor as talented as Depp -topping it. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Johnny Depp, center In hat, stars as Willy Wonka in "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory" In Tim Burton's new version of the classic film starring Gene Wilder. 

Orlando Bloom, above, stars in "Kingdom of Heaven" as Balian, a warrior In the time of the Crusades of the 12th century. 
courtesy movieweb.com "Batman Begins" Is not quite as flashy as previous summer blockbusters based on comic book characters, but promises to be an entertaining film. 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 27, 2005 
NHL 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Todd Bertuzzi got his chance to tell the NHL why it should allow him to play hockey again. 
Steve Moore, who might never play again because of the vicious hit Bertuzzi dealt him, believes the Vancouver Canucks forward hasn't sat out long enough. 
Bertuzzi, who landed a blindside punch to Moore's head in a game nearly 14 months ago, had his long­awaited reinstatement hearing with NHL commission­er Gary 
"We have some serious
Bettman on Tuesday's pro­Tuesday. obstacles ahead, and as ceedings. Yet the Bertuzzi
a consequences it's our
league is not went into the
view that reinstatement 
going to rush hearing first, 
into a deci­at this time would be sion on 
premature. " 
whether to let him back on the ice. 
Tim Danson Bertuzzi Moore's lawyer 
was suspend­ed indefinite­ly following the hit on March 8, 2004. Moore, who was play­ing with the Colorado Avalanche, was left with a broken neck, a concussion and no guarantee that he'll be able to play professional hockey again. 
"Because we think that Steve's recovery and rehabili­tation is a very important fac­tor in the commissioner's con­sideration, we've made it clear that unfortunately Steve is not where he would like to be medically," Moore's lawyer, Tim Danson, said outside the NHL offices in New York. "We have some serious obstacles ahead, and as a consequence it's our view that reinstate­ment at this time would be premature." 
Moore stood by Danson but declined to answer any ques­tions because the hearing is still unsettled -as is a civil case he filed in Denver against Bertuzzi, the Canucks and sev­eral others involved with the team. 
Bertuzzi and his agent, Pat Morris, eluded reporters before and after the hearing, which lasted between seven and eight hours. 
Morris didn't immediately return calls to The Associated Press. 
The NHL had two doctors present at the hearing as well as chief legal officer Bill Daly and league disciplinarian Colin Campbell. 
Moore and Bertuzzi didn't 
have any con­
tact with each 
other during 

Bettman 
followed by Moore, and then a return by Bertuzzi. 
"At the con­clusion of the hearing, Commissioner 
took the matter 

under advisement," Daly said in a statement. "There is no immediate timetable for a decision." 
The players' association monitored the hearing via conference call from a proce­dural and fairness perspective and didn't have a role on behalf of either party. 
"It was a very good and thorough hearing," Danson said. "It was a very serious hearing and we are very pleased by the process." 
With the Avalanche ahead 8­2 in the game at Vancouver, Bertuzzi grabbed Moore from behind, punched him on the side of his head and then landed on top of Moore, driv­ing his head into the ice. 
Colorado Avalanche player Steven Moore leaves the National Hockey League headquarters in New York on Tuesday following a hearing for Vancouver Canucks player Todd Bertuzzi. Bertuzzi is accused of breaking Moore's neck with an especially vicious hit in a March 2004 game. 
The bloodied Colorado play-He also was barred from is reached with the players' er was removed on a stretch-playing in Europe by the association. 
er. 
The attack was seen as retaliation for a hit Moore put on Vancouver star M a r k u s 
Naslund that left the Canucks cap­tain with a concussion 
and sidelined him for three games. 
B e r t u z z i 

International Ice Hockey Bertuzzi first asked for his 
"At the confusion ofthe hearing Commissioner Bettman took the mat­
ter under advisement." 
Bill Daly chief legal officer 
Federation. hearing in December around 
His return to the time he pleaded guilty in a the NHL is Vancouver court to criminal predicated on assault and was given a condi­
him being tiona! discharge. cleared by the He faced up to 18 months in commissioner. prison.
If not for the He was not allowed to play lockout that in the World Cup of Hockey wiped out the last September and is not on entire 2004-05 Canada's roster for the World 
season, this Hockey Championship, which meeting with begins this week in Austria. _ Bettman likely Moore is an unrestricted would've taken free agent after not being re­place long ago. signed by the Avalanche. 
missed 13 regular-season games and seven others in the 2004 playoffs while losing nearly $502,000 in salary. 
Since there are no pressing He filed :mit against Bertuzzi deadlines, a decision could be in Denver District Court in put off until after a new col-February seeking unspecified lective bargaining agreement damages. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Room to sublet until end of June. 2 blks to ND. $250/mo. 386-1970. 
LOST & FOUND 
Black leathEir wallet of Visiting Fellow @ Kroc Peace Institute missing. Disappeared Tues 4/12 in/around Hesburgh Center for Inti Studies. Most problematic loss: drivers license (pink, NL), very diffi­cult to replace. If seen, PLS RETURN, drop off at Kroc lnst., no questions asked.Thx M Parlevliet, tel 1-2628/1-0253; parlevliet.1 @nd.edu 
WANTED 
people with disabilities. Great job experience, fun people,make money! Near Wisconsin Dells. www.EasterSealsWisconsin.com or call1.800.422.2324 
Professor seeking full-tirne nanny for summer and/or beyond. Competitive salary. References and transportation required. Contact Alesha Seroczynski at 247-1064 for rnore information. 
FoR SALE 
New London Lakes Condo, walking distance to ND, 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, lake view, 2 car garage, pool, completely remodeled $129,900 (574) 256-2198 or (574) 255-3930 
Brand name Queen pillowtop mat­tress set. New in plastic. Full war­ranty. $185. 574-876-4474 
IRISH CROSSINGS Luxurious, spacious homes one block east of campus. Walk to campus year-round. Closer to the Joyce Center than 24 of the 27 dorms! Now under construction! For more information: Go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
Email: lrishCrossings@gmail.com Charming,home 1407 Sarin 1/2 mi from ND, 2 BR, 1 Ba,AC,FP, Full Bsmt, Gas heat, Fenced yard, patio,Gar,Dg Kennel,all applncs. $55,000. 
233-7616. 
House 701 Northwood Dr. $76K. <2miles to ND. Nice neigh. 2Bed/1.5Bth. Hardwood/WetBar/Fireplace/1 car del. Gar./fenc.yard. Tel277-5695 
FoR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234­2436 OR 574-315-5032. 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrrn avail­able NOW. Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 
Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG­ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876­3537. 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms, close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 
www.andersonNDrentals.com 

STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER MONTH All utilities, ADT security, phone/cable/DSL, W/D, Lawn serv­ice. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.05/06. Call 315-3215 
4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots of room. Call Judy 574-298-6217. 
2&3 bdrm houses close to ND. $350/mo/person.Lawn service & appliances incl. 273-4889. 
4 bdrm house, 1.5 ba.Furnished.Family or 2 grad stu­dents. $900/mo + utilities.Ciose to ND. 287-7189 or lv msg 

Beautiful suite available for gradua­lion, football weekends and all spe­cial events. Near ND. Reasonably priced. ND alum owner/managed. 
57 4-271-7205 GREAT LOCATION: 522 Napoleon. 4blks from ND. 2bdrrn remodeled home available 5/1. $600, (219)629-5483. 
ND Grad Student renting studio apt. for 05/06 year. 1 mile from ND. $400/mo includes all utilities + cable TV+ internet 574-339-0582. 
1 bdrm apt.1/2 mi to ND. $575/mo.Laundry room. Call 283­0325. 
3 Blks from ND, 318 Pokagon, 3 Bd, 3.5 Bath $1450. ND Discount available 7-1-05. 
Email:pokagon@ hotmail.com 
3 Blks from ND, 318 Pokagon, 3 Bd, 3.5 Bath $1450. ND Discount available 7-1-05. Email:pokagon@hotmail.com 
Woodbridge condo townhouse. Open concept. 2Bdrm + TV room that can be 3rd bdrm. 1.5 bath, 2 decks, clubhousew/pool. Wooded area WID, D/W, carport. NO smok­ers/pets. Furnished $1800/mo.; Not furnished $1300/mo. 1st & last pay­ment + $1000 security and 1-yr lease. 
Please call 574-272-0360. Faculty,staff or grad. 
1-bdrm apt.,furnished, desirable North Shore triangle area. 1 mi.to ND. $400/mo +electric. 574-233­
1604. 
PERSONAL 
TODAY IS THE LASTREGULAR ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER. THE GRADUATION ISSUE COMES OUT MAY 13. THANKS FOR READING AND GOOD LUCK WITH FINALS! 
To MsquaredCN + EK, I never thought it would be soo hard to leave friends who truly become sis­ters to me. Thanks for dealing with my only childness and absence due to the 0. Here's to chocolate chip cookies, Dawson's Creek, 
Felicity, The O.C., Desperate,OTH, "margaritas• on the quad, wine inspired convos, quint bathroom rules, Atlanta ghettos, 'Backer, and of course sweet, sweet loving. xoxo megs (aka Downes or Annie) 
Tennis twins­gluck at the NCAAs 
Do you know what has 145 teeth and is about to release to incredible hulk? ... Michael T ...your jokes amaze me 
133 down, 0 to go. We made it. 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 27, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE QgsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Page 17 

ITA College Tennis Rankings 
Men's 

Women's 
team
tnarn 

1 Baylor 
Stanford 1 
2 Virginia 
Florida 2 
3 Mississippi 
Kentucky 3 
4 Florida 
Georgia Tech 4 
5 Illinois 
Northwestern 5 
6 UCLA 
Vanderbilt 6 
7 Georgia 
Southern California 7 
8 Pepperdine 
Georgia 8 
Miami (FL) 9
9 Duke 
10 Texas Tech 
Texas 10 
11 Tennessee 
UCLA 11 
12 Louisiana State 
Clemson 12 
13 Washington 
North Carolina 13 
14 Kentucky 
Tulane 14 
15 Texas A&M 
Baylor 15 
16 Oklahoma State 
Duke 16 
17 Wake Forest 
Tennessee 17 
18 Tulane 
Texas Christian 18 
19 Southern California 
Harvard 19 
20 Florida State_ 
William and Mary 20 
21 Stanford 
South Carolina 21 
22 South Caroline 
California 22 
23 California 
Brigham Young 23 
24 Mississippi State 
NOTRE DAME 24 
25 Texas Corpus-Christi 
Washington 25 
Major League Baseball American League East 
lPam rneord perc . last 10  GB  
Baltimore 13-7 .650 7-3  
Boston 11-9 .550 6-4  2  
Toronto 10-11 .476 2-8  3.5  
New York 9-12 .421 4-6  4  
Tampa Bay 8-11 .421 4-6  5  
American League Central  
team l'llt:ord perc . last 10  GU  
Chicago 16-4 .800 9-1  
Minnesota 10-8 .556 5-5  5  
Detroit 8-10 .444 5-5  7  
Cleveland 8-11 .421 4-6  7.5  
Kansas City 5-14 .263 2-8  10.5  
American League West  
tPam rncord rmrc. last 10  GB  
Los Angeles 11-9 .550 6-4  
Texas 10-10 .500 6-4  1.5  
Seattle 9·10 .474 4-6  2  
Oakland 9-11 .450 5·5  2.5  
National League East  
tnam record perc. last 10  GB  
Atlanta 12-9 .571 5-5  
Florida 11-8 .579 6-4  
New York 11-10 .524 6-4  1  
Washington 11-10 .524 4-6  1  
Philadelphia 9-12 .429 5-5  3  
National League Central  
tnam rneord perc. last 10  GB  
St. Louis 12-5 .706 9-1  
Chicago 10-9 .526 6-4  3  
Cincinnati 9-10 .474 5·5  4  
Houston 8-11 .421 3-7  5  
Milwaukee 7-11 .389 2-8  5.5  
Pittsburgh 7-12 .368 4·6  6  
National League West  
t11am rneord rmr<:. last 10  GB  
Los Angeles 13-6 .684 6-4  
Arizona 12-8 .600 6-4  1.5  
San Diego 9-11 .450 4·6  4.5  
San Francisco 8·11 .421 3-7  5  
Colorado 6-12 .333 5-5  6.5  

around the dial 
MLB 

Orioles at Red Sox 12 p.m., ESPN Angles at Yankees 6 p.m., ESPN 
N BA PLAYOFFS Wizards at Bulls 7:30 p.m.,Comcast Grizzlies at Suns 9:30 p.m.,TNT 
MLB 


Associated Press 

BOSTON -David Wells -went on the disabled list 
Tunsday and could be side­
lined for more than a 
month aftnr spraining his 
right foot. 

Hod Sox manager Torry 
Francona said the 41-year­
old left-bander won't need 
surgery for the injury, sus­
tained in the fourth inning 
of Monday night's 8-4 Joss 
to Baltimore. Instead. 
Wells will rest and then 
rehabilitate the foot. 
Boston recalled left-ban­
der Lenny DiNardo from 
Triple-A Pawtucket to take 
Wells' rostnr spot. 
Francona said Wells will be sidelined for up to six weeks, but team physician Dr. Thomas Gill said in a statement, "There is no exact timeframe for his return." 
"We expect him to be able to maintain his fitness activities and baseball training throughout tho period of his rehab," Gill said. 
Wells was hurt when he tried to field .Javier Lopnz's slow roller. Wells hobbled back to the mound but remained in the game for five more batters before leaving . 
Francona said Jeft-han­der .John Halama will take 
IN BRIEF 

Rain postpones Astacio's 
debut 

PITTSBUHGII llouston Astros pitching prospect Ezequiel Astaeio's plane trip to Pittsburgh for his first major league start instead turned into an unwantod round trip back to Hound Hoek. 
llouston 's game against the Pirates was postponed Tuesday night due to a forecast of' evening-long rain and was rescheduled as part of a double­header on July 19 at 5:05 p.m. 
The scheduled pitchers, the Astros' Andy Pettitte (1-1) and the Pirates' Kip Wells (1-2), will start Wednesday's game. scheduled for 
12:35 p.m. That means Astacio heads back to the minors without making his major league debut. 
Astacio was to have been recalled from Triple-A Hound Hoek to start in place of the slumping Brandon Duckworth (0-1, 12.60 EHA). but the postponement means the Astros don't need him now. They are off Thursday, and Hoger Clemens (1-0) Wells' spot in the rotation and start nnxt Tuesday at Detroit. 
Wells (2-3) gavn up six runs and eight hits in 3 2-3 innings Monday. lie entered the game with a 15-inning scoreless string ovnr his prior two starts. both Boston shutouts. 
Wade Miller, scheduled to make his next rehabili­tation start Thursday night at Pawtucket against Scran ton/Wi Ikns-Barre, could wind up getting a roster spot. Millnr, signnd as a free agent after spending last season with Houston, has been recov­ering from a frayed rotator culT in his pitching arm. 
Aftnr Thursday, his next rehabilitation start lihly would bn Tuesday and lw could bn ready to piteh for tho Hnd Sox on May X against Soattln. 
Wells signed an $X mil­lion, two-year contraet. with Boston in Doenmlwr after pitching for San Dingo last year. lie starlnd Boston's season oponnr at Now York because Curt Schilling wasn't ready after ofTsoason ankle sur­gery . 
Wells was 12-X with a 
3.73 1\HA last season. lin pitchnd with thn Yankees from 1997-98 and 2002­03. 
opposes the Cubs' Greg Maddux in a matchup of 300-game winners Friday at Wrigley Field. Eldred out indefinitely
with heart lining infection 
ST. LOUIS -These days, walking around and holding a conversation ranks as progress for St. Louis Cardinals reliever Cal Eldred. 
The right-hander has been side­lined since April 11 with myoperi­carditis, a infection of the lining around his heart. There's no timetable for his return from the 15­day disabled list, and once he's cleared to resume baseball activities, Eldred might have to go through lhe equivalent of a personal spring train­in-g. 
He planned to watch some of Tuesday night's game against the Brewers, but from the comfort of a clubhouse com~h. 
"''m feeling a little better, but I still know I've got a ways to go," Eldred said. "No. 1, I can feel it. No. 2, you listen to the doctors and that's what they tell you, that you've got a ways to go." 
For now, rnst is lll1ing prescTibed. Eldrnd is restricted from lifting more than 10 pounds."My mind is ready to ~>. without a doubt," Eldred said. Bowlin~ Green guard to transferlo IUPUI 
INDIANAPOLIS Austin Montgomery, a 6-l'oot-4 guard who played two years at Bowling Groen, will return to his hometown and play basketball at IUI'UI starting in 2006­07. 
Montgomery, a member of the Indiana high school All-Star team at Perry Meridian in 2003, will have two years of eligibility after sitting out next snason as a transfer. 
"lie's a tremendous perimeter player who should step in and eon­tribute right away," IUPUI coach !ton llunter said Tuesday after Montgomery signed a Iotter of intent. "He ean shoot the basketball. whieh is one of tho things we needed to address in the next recruiting dass." 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April27, 2005 
NBA 

Miller magic still works for Pacers 
Indy guard scores 28 points in first-round of playoffs on Mon. 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Stephen Jackson has a message for all those Celtics fans who were taunting Reggie Miller during the first two games of Indiana's first-round playoff series against Boston: Thanks. 
"When I played against him, I never said anything to Reggie because once you upset him, he's going to wake up and drain five straight 3s," Jackson said. "That woke him up, and we needed Reggie to have the type of game he did." 
A rejuvenated Miller, faced with the possibility of his final playoff series, showed he's still capable of postseason magic. He quieted the crowd at the FleetCenter in Boston with 28 points, including a game-clinch­ing basket in the closing sec­onds, and the Pacers tied the best-of-seven series with an 82­79 victory Monday night. Game 3 is Thursday night in Indianapolis. 
As for the mocking chants, the 39-year-old Miller said he's heard far worse in his 18-y~ar career. 
''I'm just trying to play hard 
and finish my tenure here. 
Sometimes you just let sleeping 
dogs lie," said Miller, who plans 
to retire at the end of the play­
offs. "I haven't talked trash in 
six or seven years in a playoff 
series." 
Miller had only seven points 
in a 102-82 Pacers' loss 
Saturday. 
"All I can say is, please keep 

chanting his name," Pacers cen­.ter Scot Pollard said. "Make him angry. Please Boston fans, 
make Reggie Miller angry." 
Boston's Paul Pierce said the 
Celtics let Miller find a groove 
early. · 
"As a scorer, once you hit 
your first couple of shots, then 
it's going to be tough to stop you 
the whole night," Pierce said 
Tuesday. "We have to do a bet­
ter job finding him in transition, 
be a little bit more physical, not 
let him catch the ball as easy as 
he did last night because he 
was a major factor last night." 
Neither team practiced on 
Tuesday. The Celtics, who 
watched tape of Game 2, plan 
to practice at home on 
Wednesday before flying to 
Indianapolis. 
Boston coach Doc Rivers said 
the Celtics lost the game on 
defense, even though the Pacers 
scored only 82 points. 


Open Study Hours: 
April 2S  Sam to 3:00am Midnight Snacks!  
April 29  Sam to 3:00am Midnight Snacks!  
April30  Sam to 3:00am Midnight Snacks!  
May 1st  Sam to 3:00am Midnight Snacks!  

Finals Week: May 2-6 Open: Sam to 3:00am *May 6 DeBartolo closes 30 minutes after last scheduled exam through the Registrar's Office. 
36 Non-technology rooms, first come/ first serve 
See Building Support Person ifyou have specific needs: Room 103, 104. 
* * 
Coleman-Morse: 1'1 Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Same dates as listed above. Always-Free Snacks! 
* * 
O'Shaughnessy: Rooms available for open study except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. 
April 2S Sam to 3:00am April29 Sam to 3:00am April30 Sam to 3:00am May 01 Sam to 3:00am Finals Week: May 2-5 Sam to 3:00am Sunday 1:OOpm to 3:00am. Monday-Thursday 5:00pm-3:00am. Rooms: lOS, 109,204,206,207,20S,209. 
Snacks during Smdy Days ctJurtesy of: 
Busine.vs Operati01u Campus Ministry Student Union Board 
***Good Luck with Hnals*** 

Jordan Carrell  Victoria Fiore  
John Anderson  Jennifer Carter  Jimmy Flaherty  
Steven Arevaio  Dennis Christensen  Patrick Flaherty  
N;cole BarczaK  Sarah Christie  Michael Flanagan  
Meghan Barnes  Michelle Cooper  Dominic Gabbianelli  
Anna Bauer  Katie Cunningham  Michelle Gallagher  
Shelby Baughman  Matt Curtin  Paula Garcia  
Jonathon Becher  Adam Dean  Mike Giampa  
Mark Bellantoni  Anthony DeVito  Maureen Gibbons  
Ashley Bentzlin-Smith  Pat Dillon  Allison GienKo  
Michael Sflrgeron  Patrick Donlin  Jili Godbout  
Allison Bernard  Caitlin English .  Emma Govea  
Jordan Bongiovanni  Grisly Espino  JoeGuintu  
Ryan Brennan  Matt Fantazier  Julie Gulyas  
Liz Cain  Ben Ferguson  Andrew Gust  

About Deloitte 
Deloitte. 
Audit .Tax. Consulting. Financial Advisory. 
© 2005 All Rights Reserved Deloitte Development LLC 
Chris Hale Joe Harris Andrew Heinlein Claudia Hernandez Patnda H1nojosa Chns Holdener Katie House Steve Howenstem John Hughes IV Michael Iselin Brian James Pamela Jetson Joseph Kanaval Lindsay Kral Katie Landsberg Amy Larek Thuong Le Jane Lee Andrew Levy Alex Uu Kate Lorenz Michael Lund ' Swat1 Malik David McCom1ick Mike McGowan Cory Mclean James McNamara Melissa McWiHiams Bridget Meacham Laly Molina Frank Monasterio M;chael Newell David Olson Joshiekka Outiaw Jeroz Owens Becky Palka Jamie Paxton Elizabeth Pfister Nathan Raschke Brian Redmond Amy Reiff Tim Sheehan Guatarn Shewakramani Kathleen Singer Monica Smith Tim Stawicki Kyle Sullivan AdamSytte PelerTelilh Heather Van Hoegarden Allison Vater Rajiv Vohra Tara Weiler Brian Welsch Chrissy Williford 

Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, a Swiss Verein, its member firms and their respective subsidiaries and affiliates. As a Swiss Verein (association), neither Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu nor any of its member firms has any liability for each other's acts or omissions. Each of the member firms is a separate and independent legal entity operating under the names "Deloitte," "Deloitte & Touche," "Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu," or other related names. Services are provided by tile member firms or their subsidiaries or affiliates and not by the Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Verein. 
Deloitte & Touche USA LLP is the U.S. member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu. In the U.S., services are provided by the subsidiaries of Deloitte & Touche USA LLP (Deloitte & Touche LLP, Deloitte Consulting LLP, Deloitte Tax LLP, and their subsidiaries), and not by Deloitte & Touche USA LLP. 
Wednesday, April 27, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

NFL 

Johnny Satnple, Super Bow-l star, dies at 67 
"lie will always have a spn­
Defensive back part 
eial place in Jets' history as a of NY Jets upset over member of the Super Bowl championship team," J(~tsColts in 1969 bowl coach IIerman Edwards said. "The Jets and the NFL com­munity have lost a friend in 
Associated Press 
Johnny Sample." 
PHILADELPHIA-Johnny In all, Sample played 11 sea­Sample, a defensive back who sons for the Colts, Pittsburgh was on the winning side in two Steelcrs, Washington Hndskins of the NF'I:s landmark games, and the .lets. died Tuesday. lie was 6 7. The 1958 title game was as 
His death was confirmed by a rookie and the 1969 game Jeff Moran, a spokesman for was his last. the medical examiner's office. "llis participation in two of Details were not immediately the most significant games in available. NFL history, the 1958 champi­
A young woman who onship game and Super Bowl answered the phone at III, symbolized the champion Sample's home in Philadelphia John was," Colts owner Jimmy said the family would have no lrsay said. comment for a few days. Known as a fierce hitter 
Sample had an interception from his cornerback position, for the New York Jets in their he had 41 interceptions during 16-7 upset of the Baltimore his earner, returning four for Colts in the third Super Bowl touchdowns, and also in 1969. That game, for which returned one punt and onn the Jets' Joe Namath "guaran­kickoff for a Tl>. teed" victory, established the In his final year with thn old AFL on a par with the NFL Jets, lw had snven intercep­after the two leagues had tions. merged. Born in Philadelphia, hn 
Earlier, Sample played for attended Ovnrbrook High the Colts in the 1958 NFL School at tho sanw timo as championship game against Wilt Chamberlain and played the New York Giants that is in collngo at Maryland-I·:aslnr·n still often described as "The Shorn. Greatest Gamn Ever Played." WBC middll•wnight champi-. The Colts won 23-17, thn lirst on Bn rn ard II o pk ins said lw gamn to go to overtime. knew Sampln for 18 ynars. 
Cosimo's Hair Salon 
Spedalizing in great hairtuts, Expert color and highlighting. Student distounts now available. (Shampoo, Hairtut, & Style) For Men-$20 For Women-$30 
Tel. 277-1875 Lotated near campus at 1707 South Bend Ave (US 23) 
The UPS Store 
"May Move Out '05" NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 10am-5pm 
FLANNER CIRCLE Monday, May 2 -Saturday, May 7 Thursday, May 12 -Saturday, May 14 
Monday, May 16 · 
LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS Wednesday, May 4-Saturday, May 7 
WELSH FAMILY HALL Monday, May 2 -Saturday, May 7 Thursday, May 12 ~Saturday, May,14 Monday, May 16 
LOBBY OF LE MANS HALL Wednesday, May 4-Friday, May 6 
$1.00 off Shipping PER BOX FREE PICK UP Pickup is free, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. PERMANENT LOCATION: Martin's Plaza -S.R. 23 Hours: M-F 9am -7pm Sat: lOam -6pm 277-6245 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April27, 2005 
MLB 
A-Rod leads Yankees to 12-4 victory over Angels 
Mariners' Pinero retires 12 batters in 7-4 win over Texas 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Ale.x Rodriguez hit three home runs in his first three at-bats and became only the 11th major league player with 10 or more RBls in a game. 
The marquee matchup might have been across town at Shea Stadium, where the Mets' Pedro Martinez lost to Atlanta's John Smaltz, but it was A-Hod who put on the biggest show in New York on Tuesday. 
Each of his home runs came with two outs against Bartolo Colon (3-2) in the first four innings and drew rousing ova­tions from the Yankees' fans, who have been reluctant to embrace the $252 million star since he was acquired before the 2004 season. 
He added a run-scoring sin­gle in the sixth off Kevin Gregg and finished one RBI shy of the AL record of 11 set by the Yankees' Tony Lazzeri in 1936. The major league record of 12 is shared by the St. Louis Cardinals' Jim Bottomley (1924) and Mark Whiten (1993). 
Nomar Garciaparra had been the last player with 10 RBls in a game, accomplishing the feat 
... for Boston against Seattle on May 10, 1999. Rodriguez hit the 11th grand slam of his career in the fourth inning after hitting a three-run shot in the first and a two-run homer in the third, all two-out drives. Coming in, he had been 2­for-13 this year with runners in scoring position and two outs. His homer in the first, which followed two walks, landed over the 399-foot marker in left-center. When his long fly in the third landed in the Angels' bullpen in left field, the Yankee Stadium crowd of 36,328 stood and cheered until Rodriguez appeared out of the dugout one pitch into the next at-bat. The fans stood throughout his at-bat in the fourth. After his drive on a 3-2 pitch hit off the front of the center-field bleachers, just beyond the 408­foot sign, they clapped along to the music and chanted "A­Rod!" until he made his second curtain call several minutes later, during reliever Kevin Gregg's warmups. Even after Rodriguez lined out in the eighth, fans greeted him with loud applause, then began a quick run for the exits with a 12-3 lead. Rodriguez was given the ninth inning off. Rodriguez's performance overshadowed Carl Pavano's first win in pinstripes. He pitched effectively for seven innings, often falling behind in the count but only getting into real trouble against a potent Angels lineup in the third when he walked two and gave up an HBI single to Vladimir Guerrero and run-scoring grounder to Garet Anderson. Pavano (2-2), whose previous victory was at Toronto last week, gave up three runs and seven hits. Colon had allowed just one run in 15 innings over two starts. Each of Rodriguez's 
home runs followed ·bouts of wildness; Colon walked five in 3 2-3 innings and gave up 10 runs -five earned. 
Giving up the longball has always been a problem for Colon, but he had allowed just one in 27 2-3 innings through his first four starts this season. 
Bernie Williams had an RBI grounder on one of Chane Figgins' two errors in the fourth and Jorge Posada added an RBI groundout for New York. 
Seattle 7, Texas 4 
Joel Pineiro allowed four solo homers but little else and helped the Seattle Mariners beat the Texas Hangers. 
Dave Dellucci connected in the second inning, pulling Texas to 3-1, and Mark Teixeira and Kevin Mench homered in the fourth, cutting the Rangers' defieit to 5-3. 
Pineiro (2-1) retired his next 12 batters before Alfonso Soriano homered in the eighth. He then was replaced by Ron Villone. 

Pineiro gave up five hits in 7 1-3 innings, struck out five and walked one. Eddie Guardado got three outs for his sixth save in seven chances. 
Adrian Beltre homered for the Mariners, and Richie Sexson, Wilson Valdez and Raul Ibanez each had three hits. Seattle had been limited to a total of three runs during a three-game losing streak before breaking out in a 9-1 win over the Cleveland Indians on Sunday. 
Ryan Drese (2-2) allowed five runs, 11 hits and three walks in 6 1-3 innings with five strikeouts. 
Beltre hit a two-run homer in the first, and Sexson scored from second with the third run of the inning when Mench mis­played Randy Winn's single to left for an error. 
Miguel Olivo added a two-run single in the third. Ibanez dou­bled in two runs off Doug Brocail in the ninth. 

Wednesday, April 27, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 ' BASEBALL 
Like Steve Stanley, Brett Lilley does the little things right 
Hy TOM DORWART 
Sports Writer 
Brett Lilley isn't the sncond coming of Stnvn Stanley, but as thn Notre Dame eoaclws and fans say, lw's awfully dose. 
lin plays third base. Stanley 

playnd con­tnrlinld. 
Still. the resnmblance is thnrn. 
" C o a e h I I' a u I Mainieril and a lot of other 

limn parallel Lilley mn to Steve Stanlny," Lilley said. "I kind of play tho game like hn dons. It's a huge compliment being pantl­leled to him. lie's obviously one of tlw best playnrs in the history of this program." 
Stanloy -a eonsonsus 2002 lirst-tnam All-Amnrkan and see­ond round draft pick of tho Oitkland Athlntics -startnd all 61 games his frnshman year at Notrn Damn in 1999. The 5-lilllt­S, 155 pound former Ohio prop star from Uppnr Arlington, tho brooding ground that also pro­duend current Notre Dame shortstop Greg Lopnz, was nevnr a pownr-hittnr. lie was an on­hasn-perenntagn guy. Stanley used his hustle and nxeeptional linlding, his quick bat and keen nyo and his llashy spend to llxcnl at tho eollogn lnvel. 
l.illny, who wnars the samn number that Stanley wore, num­ber two, has started all 40 games thus far in his freshman season li1r tlw Irish. He's always been a gifted def(msnman, a ground ball and line drive hittP.r who will find the slightest gap in an infield and a spend demon on the basepaths. Like Stanley, the 5­foot-7. 165 pound Lilley, who is balling in the two-spot, simply finds a way to get on base. 

"We both bunt; we're both fast; we hit for average; we don't hit for a lot of power." said Lilley, who owns an astounding .517 on-base percentage. "We play the game hard and that's the biggest thing. We go all out all the time." 
And like Stanley, Lilley will "go all out" not just for himself, but for his team. 
lin started the first 29 games of tho season at second base where he committed only five errors, and, while the Irish struggled to lind a steady third baseman, he made the switeh to third basn in the sncond game of the Boston College series April 9. At the hot eorner, he has com­mitted only one error. And since the switch, the Irish have gone on a 1 0-1-1 tear. 
''I've n1wer played third before. I rnally never even took really a grounder at third before,'' Lilley said. "I've almost always played short or second. 
.. , think it's di!l"erent, but I just think it's fun. It's fun being over there, and these guys hit shots right at you, and you just have to react to the ball. I don't mind it 

Taking the August or April '06 MCAT? Place a deposit NOW-­Save your seat and save $1 00! 
Lock In the current price. Enroll today! 
~ ~  1·800-KIP·UST kaptest.com  High., t••>t ~C'JT(It· gu,1ran\(><.'d .,, Y•)llr m"n>i!y tJilc ''  
TNt Prep lllld Admissions  
'  

•r... nom.. .,.. ......... .., ~0<1001"""' ollllolr ~•.,...._ ''Oordllans ond ...-,otklnl ""'"Y· For OOitlllttl< ~ 
..-~I)'.....,...,........ >'IMI k-ttoom/110@. Tho Hlf'Ot Sooro <li«>RRmr!o "'ll!!U 0111\' lo l'.ll>llfl OOU<UO lal<tn """ -IMI-lho ~>otool Btll(oo tlld C<rloolo. Tho tii19>W 5"""' ~...m.. do.,. riO( •IJillll 10 !'CAT........, •. 
at all," he said. "Your head has to be in the game at all times. You never know when the ball is coming, [when it's) going to be smoked at you. The big thing is I feel like it's an intense position, and I like that." 
Hecently, when Lilley struts to the platfl, the theme song from the movie Hudy blares over the loudspeakers. The opposing teams arnn 't intimidated by his 5-foot-7 frame. 
Pitchers stare, and Lilley glares back, ready to let the naysayers know he can play. I lis numbers are telling. 
Stanley hit for a season aver­age of .326 his freshman year. Lilley, on paee to top that, is bat­ting a team-loading .366, has been hit by 17 pitches and walked 26 times. 
"Coach told me at thfl begin­ning ol' the year I'm going to be like Steve Stanley or be just as good as Steve Stanley. I looked at all of his stats, and I'm just like 'Wow, that's a lot to live up to,' but I think I can be just as good or better," Lilley said. 
With his team sitting one game behind Big East leader St. John's, Lilley expects great things from his toammatos and from himself' throughout the rest of the season -which indudes a pivotal series against the Hod Storm and series against power­house Southern California and a solid Michigan squad. 
"A team goal would be, obvi­ously, to make it to the College World Series. That is my goal in my college career -to go to the College World Series and get the chance to win it all. We've really stepped it up latnly, and we've put ourselves in a position that we're possibly able to reach that goal this year if the right things happen." 
Before that, Lilley knows the Irish must not look past their upcoming opponents. Tonight at 5, the Irish faee Manchester College, and this weekend (Friday at 6 p.m. and Saturday at 
1:35 p.m.) tho Irish take on Cleveland State, a team they lost to at Frank Eek Stadium a year ago 12-5. All three games are at horne. 
"We don't want to havP onP bad game; we want to be consis­tent is the main thing," Lilley said. "I think if wll can stay l:on­sistent then we'm going to bP consistent through St. John's and earry the way wp're playing right now into that St. John's sPries, whieh is probably ono of the most important series this year. 
"The big games are the best games. I think everybody pieks up their level of intensity li1r the big games, too. If we ean win the big games when it eounts, thon we ean we ean make it. If we ean go in to St. John's and win a eou­ple there and thon take on USC and play good against thom, I think we have a ehanec of doing , something spneial this ynar." 
Perhaps Lilley can take tlw Irish to the same lnvel that another speeial numbllr two took his lllam to just thmll Sllasons ago. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwact@nd.edu 

' page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 27, 2005 
who came to Saint Mary's from come." in the field, all year-round. finish in the top four would be Columbus, Ohio and for the sec­Chemistry seems to be what "[Hamilton] has been an considered respectable for the
Seniors 
ond consecutive year is captain continued from page 28 of the nationally-ranked team, expected little more than per­
_ Simmerman, who was amidst haps a conference champi­talks with Division-! schools dur­onship by the time she graduat­ing her senior year of high ed when she entered as a fresh-school, there was never any man. question as to whether she Her first trip to the NCAA would play golf in college. Her Championships as a sophomore dad got her started completely in golf and had changed her out­helped with her look on the pro­
"We've had to
college search, and gram. 
she credits him in continue to work "What was large part for the hard and dedicate great about success she has [nationals] was
ourselves."
had. that no one had 
-"He was always any expectations there to encourage Chrissy Dunham of us," Dunham me," Simmerman Belles golfer said. "Since then, 
said. "In junior tournaments, I didn't even know what club to hit, so he would give me signals to tell." 
Being the daughter of a Saint 
~Mary's alum, Simmerman says the idea of playing for the Belles was always on the back of her mind, and weekly telephone calls from the former coach of the team seemed to help per­suade the Phoenix, Ariz., native to come to South Bend. 
The deal was finally sealed when Simmerman came out for a recruiting trip and got to know the Saint Mary's community. She knew she wanted to play college 
, golf, but had no major expecta­tions for what would come of it. "I knew I wanted to play golf, and Saint Mary's had a team," Simmerman said. "We weren't the best in the division at that point, but the girls that jOined brought the team to nationals." Two of those players were , Dunham and Adams. Dunham, 
we've had to con­

tinue to work hard and dedicate ourselves, to continue to raise our standards and to keep pushing to get bet­ter." 
Adams, who came to South Bend from Peoria, Ill., completes the trio that has helped turn Belles golf into a powerhouse. For her, golf was of small conse­quence when applying to schools, and it was a random run-in with the coach when Adams attended Accepted Students Day that resulted in her joining the team as a fresh­man. 
"I didn't know anything about college golf at the time," Adams said. "I just wanted to have fun and play." 
Competing in a national tour­nament was not at all on her mind. 
"Even my second year, I didn't realize how much of a possibility it was," she said. ''I'm still in shock [about] how far we've has made these three women instructor, and hn knows what work so well together for four he's talking about when it comes years -chemistry between down to it," Simmerman said. them, with the other members And he has been exactly the of the team and especially with right coach to take the group of head coach Mark Hamilton, who golfers to the next level in their came into his current position careers. one year after Dunham, Words are hardly enough for Simmerman and Adams arrived Simmerman, Dunham and at Saint Mary's. Adams to describe the bond that 
Hamilton had never coached a has developed between the women's team before. three women in the process of "He kind of threw us a curve taking Saint Mary's golf to that ball," Simmerman said. new level. None of them seems 
But the golfers unanimously to find exactly the right way to speak of their coach as an describe the experience they incredible asset to their person­have gone through together. al improvement, as well as the "Being with that group of girls Saint Mary's golf for that long of a program in gener-time, there are no al. Hamilton has words to describe
'Tm still in shock 

found the perfect it," Simmerman opportunity in a [about] how far said. group of golfers we've come. None of the sen­who have been iors will shy away consistently will­from the fact that
Julia Adams

ing to put forth the they would like dedication neces­Belles golfer nothing more than sary to come as to win a national far as they have, championship on and he has used all his their way out. The girls have resources to help get them strived towards the goal all sea­there. son, knowing that it is not an 
"Mark has dedicated a signifi­unrealistic one. Although any cant amount of his life to help­ing us improve," Dunham said. \ program, for the three graduat­ing seniors it would be especial­ly nice to beat Depauw and to get Methodist out of their num­ber one spot. 

"It would be the most amazing thing ever [to win the title]." Dunham said. "Because we've worked so hard and we've improved so much ... it's some­thing we could definitely achieve, and it would mean the world to all of us." 
With the mindset these three women have, a national title should be entirely within reach. The three golfers have helped to take Saint Mary's golf from a mediocre program which aroused few expectations to a major national contender. Certainly it is within their capa­bilities to close the deal and bring home the championship, provided they play the right golf at the right time. And all three golfers are prepared to do exactly that. 
"That's what it's all about, peaking at the right time," Simmerman said. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO1 @nd.edu 
"He knows that we want to put \ 
' 

in the time and effort ... that's why he makes a point to be sup­
Head~:1.
portive and make time for us." 
Adams and Simmerman only 
"Area's largest selection!" reiterate the words of praise that Dunham has for their 
<(Uly:e ~nle ~le 
coach. All three golfers con­tribute a large part of their suc­Only one mile from Campus! cess to the fact that Hamilton 
East Bank Emporium Restaurant Building owns a golf store in town and 121 S. Niles @ Jefferson, downtown South Bend has provided the facilities to 

10-6
practice, as well as his expertise 

THE NOTRE DAME CHAPTER OF PHI BETA KAPPA, EPSILON OF INDIANA, CONGRATULATES AND WELCOMES ITS NEW MEMBERS 
OF THE CLASS OF 2005 
STEPHANIE LYNN ABERGER KIM LEE ANDERSON STACY L. ARBOGAST LUIS H. ARGUELLO ANNA MARIA ARIAS KELLI BARTON KYLE REID BERTOLI JASON ROBERT BIEHL MARY ANNE BLAZEWICZ ERIN BLONDEL KATHERINE MARY BLOOMQUIST MARY BOLAND KEVIN MICHAEL BOTT DAVID MICHAEL BOUTROUS ERIKA LYNN BRAMLEY BRIDGET ANNE BRENNAN KATIE ANN-MARIE CARLOSS GEREMY ROBERT CARNES PATRICK CARNEY CHRISTOPHER CASCINO MEGAN ANE CASSERLIE MARK JOSEPH COUGHLAN PETRA DANKOVA SHEILA DAWES MEREDITH MARY DOELLMAN MARGARET ISABELLE MARY DOIG KATI SHANNON DUFFEY BENJAMIN LEE ELLISON VICTORIA FIORE REBECCA LEIGH FORD MEGAN SMITH FULLER MEGAN FURMAN CHRISTOPHER J. GEHRING LEE THOMAS GETTLER SARA ELIZABETH GJLLOON LESLEY ANN GREGORICKA WILLIAM ALBERT GUERRIERI CHRISTINE ANN HAISLUP MAUREEN HATTRUP JACQUELINE HEAP STEPHAN IE ELLEN HILL 
·SuSAN MARIE JENNINGS COURTNEY KAY JIANAS GEOFFREY JOHNSTON BRIAN EUGENE KADERA ERIN ELIZABETH KENNEDY MICHAEL JOHN KNESEK MATTHEW CHRISTOPHER 
KONERMAN RACHEL R. KUTZLEY GREGORY MICHAEL LASKI KAREN LAWLER DARREN RICHARD LUFT KELSI MARIE MATWICK KERI MARIE MATWICK 
MARK JOSEPH MILLER BRIAN MULHALL ABBY LYNNE NERLINGER BRIDGET O'BRIEN CAITLIN ELLEN O'BRIEN BRENDAN ALLEN O'NEILL KEVAN MICHAEL O'NEILL KATIE LYNNE O'SULLIVAN JUSTIN RIGBY ERICA RUDDY DAVID FREDERIC SALMON ANDREW BENJAMIN SALZMANN AARON SANDERS ENRIQUE R. SCHAERER HENRY THOMAS SCOTT JOHN MARK SKAKUN Ill RENEE BERIOU STRONCEK ERIC MATTHEW TARKOWSKI VINCENTE TENNERELLI JENNIFER KIMBERLEY TESTA CHRISTOPHER JAMES THERASSE CHRISTOPHER A. TOKIN JENNY TRISTANO ASHLEY ELIZABETH TUREK ERIN LOUISE URQUHART ANN MARIE WALORSKI JACQUELINE MICHELLE WILSON KEVIN CHRISTOPHER WISEMAN THEODORE FRANCIS WISSINK 

Wednesday, April 27, 2005 
Belles 
continued from page 28 
fi1urth in 2004 and 2003 rnspec­tivnly. 
Senior Stnfanie Simmerman won the individual title in 200:~ 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
with a four-round score of 315. She fi1llownd that up with a 12th­placn finish in 2004. 
Currently Saint Mary's is ranked third or fourth nationally, depending on which poll is elwcked. Top-ranked Methodist College enters the tournament the elnar-cut favorite, a title the 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Belles will seek to dispose. 
"Them are some groat toams in the NCAA Championships. DePauw is our regional rival, of course we are going to be gun­ning fi1r them," Simmerman said. 
Other teams that could pose problems for the Belles will be the Mary-llardin Baylor, Gustavus 


Mike Brenan -(Class of '71) a 30-year hospitality industry veteran, is pleased to announce the development of South Bend's newest Condominium/ Hotel. This exciting new venture will feature over 150 exquisite rooms modeled in the fashion of a traditional Irish Lodge. This "second home" opportunity offers to its owners the finest in accom­modations while visiting Notre Dame for football or fun. Additionally, all owners will have the option of placing their unit in a professionally managed, Hotel rental pool during times when they will not be using it for themselves or friends! 
Initially priced from $89,950-this property is poised to become South Bend's premiere hospitality destination. 
Amenities include: Lismore -Continental Dining in a polished but comfortable setting Brigid's -A true Irish Pub for the Leprechaun in all of us. Indoor & Outdoor Pools as well as an Executive Fitness Center for the young of all ages! 
With an anticipated Opening in Spring of '06 we expect this real estate opportunity to subscribe quickly. For more information call Mike Brenan at 312/203-1732 or email us at mikbren@comcast.net. Call now and become a part of tre Notre Dame family all year long! 
Prices. offers, and specifications are subject to change without nobce. Not an offer where prohib•ted. 
· · 

Thursdav, April 28th from 9aDI until' 10PDI 
Reduced Pri~ci--1 and Awesome Specials! 
1.866.3.95A201 
www.almco.com 
1110 Turtle ereell Drive South Bend, IN 
Bring this coupon in to receive 
page 2.1 

Adolphus, and Wartburg. 
Team captain Chrissy Dunham and this year's MIM low medalist Julia Adams will look to join Simmerman atop the leader board and bring home the gold. 
"I think it would definitely be a great way to dose out my earner," Simmerman said when asked what a national championship would mean to her. 
Team eaptain Chrissy Dunham echoed the same sentiment. 
"Competing in nationals the last two years has been the best expe­rienee golf-wise," Dunham said. "Making it that far and bning able to eompete with tho bnst golfers in the eountry has been an amaz­ing experience. 
"I think if we all play to our potential we have a chance of winning nationals. We definitely are up there with the top teams and I think if we play like we all know we can, then we will be able to eompcte for lthe national championship]." 
Hopes abound between the three seniors and their team­mates that the successful past three years will culminate with the title. 
"These seniors put Saint Mary's on the map as far as golf is con­cerned," Hamilton said. "They are the ones responsible for the national prominence we have attained. A national title would bn 
Happy 21st Birthday Kin1 
May 3, 2005 
Love, 

the ultimatn eapper to their groat carnnrs." 
Along with the pm·fiJrmanees of ead1 individual, a key ingredient has been the tnamwork exhibit11d bntween players, coach, and cap­tain. 
Julia Adams praised Dunham's snrvice to tho team. 
"Shn's always thorn for you to talk to her," Adams said. "Slw wanl'i to know your opinion and if you have any concerns." 
Dun ham said she felt tlw rnsponsibility bnhind tho position and did her best to promote tnam values. 
"What an honor being 1:aptain has been for me," J>unham said. "I think being a communicator and setting myself as an nxarnple of hard work is important. Being there to support my teammates not only with tlu~ir golf' games but in thnir personal livns as well IH.L'i been a large part." 
Dnspite tho past inability of the Belles to reaeh the top thr1111 in the NCAA'!, none of thmn fen) that it is in any way out of reach. 
"I think we could potentially win it if we all work really hard and we play our best when wn got there," Adams said. "Our number one goal is to win. Anything can happen with golf'." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.cdu 
Dad, Mon1 & Chrissy 
Students Fly Cheaper 
summer travel, study abroad &more 
Sample airfares from South Bend: Sample airfares from Chicago: 
Atlanta $168 Toronto $170 Denver $168 London $535 New York $168 Rio de Janeiro $672 San Diego $233 Sydney $1020 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April27, 2005 
FOOTBALL 
Defensive line proves to be strength for Irish 
ing some depth, and I think are out with injuries. The fact said of Zorich. "Everybody calls ties of the players on the defen-
By KATE GALES 

we're moving in the right direc­that a variety of players saw me 'Little Zorich,' so I've got to sive line. · 
Associate Sports Editor 
tion," Irish coach Charlie Weis time was heartening to a live up to that, so it was awe­"I think we're very fortunate 
said. "We'll have a couple of rebuilding defensive unit. some that he gave [the award] to have the guys that we do 
Never look back. guys that will be back here in "The young guys have to me." running around making plays, 
As the 2005 season dawns in August, freshmen coming in, stepped up great-Zorich was and as a linebacker, that makes South Bend, the Irish have lost and I think it's going to end up ly," Laws said. pleased with the my job a lot easier,'' he said. star defensive end Justin Tuck being a pretty good -a pretty "We're returning performance of Laws agreed, pointing out to the New York Giants in the competitive group." Landri and "The young guys the defensive line that the spring game showed third round of the NFL draft. A Competitive is right. Trevor [AbiamiriJ, I in the spring solid fundamentals and devel­
have stepped up
defensive line that helped hold Laws was named the game's mean, we're game. opment as a unit.
greatly."

opponents to just six rushing most valuable defensive player going to have an "I was excited "I thought [the defensive line] touchdowns is being forced to after notching four tackles -awesome d-line, that they had the played great out there," Laws rebuild, returning only nose three for loss -and a sack. so I'm pumped opportunity to said. "Everybody seemed real
Trevor Laws 

guard Derek Landri. "I was flattered, it was pretty about it." play together," he solid, no mental errors really,
defensive player
But if the Blue-Gold game is neat," Laws said of the MVP Notre Dame said. "Having we shut them down pretty any indication, .controlling the award. "It was a nice little defensive line those players good, and everybody looks line of scrimmage could be a accolade to get. Lots of guys coach Jappy together on the good. If everybody comes back, strength of the Irish defense there could have been awarded Oliver has worked extensively same team in a game situation we're going to be tough to next year. it. I was pretty excited to get it with his young players. can be very beneficial to your stop." 
"I think that I'm encouraged -it was pretty nice." "He's a great guy, he's just team." that some guys are starting to The defensive line was with­one of those guys -he's like Defensive captain Brandon Contact Kate Gales at play themselves into the mix out Landri and defensive end one of the players, you know," Hoyte is confident in the abili-kgales@nd.edu 

and allow us to start establish-Victor Abiamiri, both of whom said Laws. "It's easy to talk to him, he's a great coach to play for because he can relate with you. Even on the field, he's pumped right there with you." Oliver has also helped the defensive line to come together as a unit. "Everyday Coach Jappy leaves the meeting room and lets us just meet in there by ourselves for a while, talk with each other as much as we want, gel with each other," Laws said. "We're all real close, so it really helps out on the field too." The Blue team was coached by former Notre Dame lineman Chris Zorich, who presented Laws with the MVP award. "He's my idol, man," Laws 
017.

T'HA.NK Y'O:U ->/~
B~~·if· 

Jackie Clark, Halle Kiefer And the Class of 2006 c'tt~\ for all of the ~,~~ PAR,.EN'T'S' Nl6HTS OUT! 
Our Kids Had A Blast Spending The Year With You!!! 
The University Village Kids and Their Grateful Parents 


The Nanovic Institute for European Studies Announces the Winners ofResearch and Travel Grants for 2005-2006 
Congratulations to undergraduates: 
James J. Bettcher (Poland)  Katherine A. Peterson (France)  
Patrick M. Corrigan (Ireland)  Lisa A. Reijula (Finland & Estonia)  
Michelle M. Garvey (Italy)  Tekla T. Sauter (France)  
Brittny R. Heinrich (Scotland)  Patrick J. Seul (Ukraine)  
Sara J. Urben (Spain) T.he R. Stephen and Ruth Barrett Family grantfor best proposal 


Ana to graduate students: 
Thomas S. Davis (Britain) Gavin M. Foster (Ireland) Marion C. Rohrleitner (Germany &Austria) James A. Thompson (Europe) Tonia A. Warnecke (Luxembourg) 
Graduate fellowship winner: 
Martin Beisswenger (Russia) 

Wednesday, April 27, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles stun Scots, roll into postseason play 
By PATRICK MCCABE 
Spons Writer 
Tlw Bolles heat Alma IJ-0 Tuosday to aseend to fifth plac~n in the MIAA eonfernnce stand­ings. Af'ler losing four eonsecu­tivn rnatdws to the nlite tnams in tlw lnagun, tlw young Belles have won four straight. thn final two against eonfnrenr.n oppo­IH'nts. At H-CJ (3-4), thn Belles intend to surge in the tourna­nwnt. 
"l•:vnryo1w's c~om i ng togntlwr now," co-c~aptain Kristen Palombo said. "Morn gamns have givc~n us morn confidence. They !Alma playnrsl were the nieest girls wn'vn playnd all snason. We played solidly and w11ll. I'm real­ly nxdted with our play." 
Af'tnr the match started at 3 p.m., intnrmittent showers foreed stoppages of play; tho eontc~st l'inishnd at 9:30. Nonntlwlnss, thn Bnlles' mental fortitude and unllappable con­c~nntration propnllml them to vie­tory. 
"It was so weird," Palombo said. "We startnd outsidp, and playnd for a bit but stopped wlwn it raini1d. We came back out to play one doubles match. But it rained again, so we eom­plntnd the mateh in the Eck. I was glad w11 were able to keep it tog~•ther. It's hard to stay foeused and not to bncome frustratnd." 
The B11lles' struggles early in the season have toughened their tournament path and may hin­der them from eompiling enough points to win the championship. 
"We're at a disadvantage becausn I think only Kelly IMr.Davittl and I are seeded," Palombo said. "Our tmtmmates will likely have tough first-round opponents. It's tho luck of the draw, rnally." 
The team's past success in the tournament makes the vetnran members of the team feel morn comfortable. 
"I think it has givnn confidence to Miranda IMikulyukl and me because we have been there before and know we can come from behind and win," Palombo said. "We foe! comfortable enter­ing the tournament." 
However, some nervousness and excitement has suffused the younger Belles. 
"Many ask Miranda and I questions about what play is like and what goes on in the tourna­ment," Palombo said. "It's the first time for many of the girls." 
But the prepared Belles still eagerly eye the two-day grind of the tournament. 
"We'rn in the best physical shape ever," Palombo said. "We can withstand playing many matches over a short span." 
Contact Patrick McCabe at pmccabe@nd.edu 
Quinn 
continued from page 28 
does not lead the NFL in touch­downs or passing yards, and he rarely is mentioned as a one of the better skilled quartnrbaeks in the hmgue. 

Wnis molded Brady into that type of quarterback, the one who does the little thing's week­in and week-out to win. lie does not care about the person­al merits and awards that some view as important. 
And based on Saturday's Blue-Gold Game, it is dear that Quinn is starting to display some of those same qualities. 
Look no further than the first score of the game, when Quinn rolled out left and threw a per­feet ball oil' balance to Anthony Fasano in the <md zone. Quinn made sure that ball hit his receivers' hands, despite the fact that he was being rushed and he had to make an uncom­fortable throw. 
It is that type of play that Irish fans ean nxpect from Quinn coming into the season. 
lie has always had the skills, the arm and the size, but he now has the coach and ­based on Saturday's game ­the confidnnce to take him that extra mile. 
llis coach believes in him, and he made that very clear following Quinn's impressive outing on Saturday. 
"Starting with Brady and his leadership, his poise, and him being to handle the instillation of this ofl'ense it gives me hope that my lack of versatility in calls will not be an issue here because as much as he can handle, it allows me to do that much more on offense." Weis said. 
Quinn's teammates believe in him too. As a rising junior they have named him the team's ofl'ensive captain. 
lie believes in himsnlf, and the offense that he works in, noting the strides the group has made this spring. 
"I like to think II am a bettp,r quarterback than when the spring started I." Quinn said. "Obviously when spring starts there arn a lot of things you are indedsive about but right now I feed a lot morn eomfortabln with where we an~ at as an ofl'nnse." 

Now it is just a mattnr of' tho fans believing in him. As sk<~pti­eal as the Notrn Damn contin­gency can be at times, Quinn proved Saturday that he is ready to stop up to the chal­lenge. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu
-------. 

A concert of Indian Classical Music 
featurino 

K usha I Das-Sitar Abhijit Banet·jee-Tabla 
Friday, April 29, 2005 7:30p.m. 
,~11ufitorium, Jfes6uroli Centerfor lnternation.tf Stwfies Vniversity of:Notre <Dame 
Sponsored by: South Asia Proarom The Aalan Indian Claulcal Music Society of Mlcblana Office of International Student Services and Activit.!•• The joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peaco Studies 
neral Admission: $10 
ND/SMC Faculty: $5 Students: Free 

sub presents... STRESS RELIEVERS! 
tome take astudy break 
sunday, May 1st 7:30-10:30pmLaFortune Ballroom tree lood, Papa Johns &stress reliel kits 
to help you make it throuen exams! 

sub.nd.edu 
brought to you by the student union boar 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April27, 2005 
earned runs -one in the fifth and two in the seventh -while
Rally 
striking out six batters. 

continued from page 28 Northwestern took the lead 1-0 in the fifth when Garland able to take advantage of that." Cooper singled to score Katie Foster came into the game Logan. The Wildcats added two with a 16-5 mark but could not insurance runs in the top of the 
get out of the sev­ seventh,  with  
enth inning after  Stephanie  
shutting down the Irish in order in the bottom of the  "We're capable of beating anybody if  Churchwell pick­ing up an RBI on a double and  
sixth. Katie Laing opened the inning with a flyout, but  we both pitch well and hit well."  Cooper hitting her second RBI single of the game.  
then the Irish loaded the bases,  Deanna Gumpf  Facing a three­run deficit, the  
and  Foster  was  Irish coach  Irish  needed  


replaced with Canney. But Canney could not work out of the jam, and Notre Dame came away with perhaps its biggest win of the second half of the season. 
"This game was a result of knowing that we have the abili­ty to come back," Gumpf said. "We've done it before, and it's good for our girls to know they can do it again. That's a really important aspect for a team to have." 
Heather Booth started the game for the Irish, scattering three hits over four innings before being replaced with Steffany Stenglein. Stenglein struggled, allowing three 
baserunners and 
got a few gifts early. Megan Ciolli was hit by a pitch with one out and Meaghan 

"We started to hit
Ruthrauff fol­and hit well. We lowed with a a few atom shots haven't been able walk. Foster then to put those two
that were right at 
allowed a single things together
their defense." 
to Carrie Wisen, too often this and an error year." allowed Ciolli to Deanna Gumpf Notre Dame score the first returns to Big
Irish coach 
Irish run of the East conference game. action Friday, as 
Kellie Middleton followed the Irish take on Boston Wisen with a walk, loading the College in a doubleheader at bases and knocking Foster out Alumni Field starting at 3 p.m. of the game. Canney got Mallorie Lenn to hit a ground Contact Justin Schuver at ball up the middle, but the jschuver@nd.edu 

.grounder was bobbled for the second Wildcat run of the inning, allowing Ruthrauff to score from third and reloading the bases for Liz Hartmann. 
Hartmann popped up and left any hopes of an Irish comeback on the bat of Schoonaert, who delivered, slapping a single through the middle that scored both Wisen and Middleton. 
Notre Dame's win over the Wildcats is the team's fourth victory over a ranked foe this season. The Irish have previ­ously defeated then-No. 19 Florida, then-No. 21 South Florida and then-No. 5 Tennessee. 
"This win was important for us," Gumpf said. "We've shown that we're capable of beating anybody if we both pitch well 

KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer Irish pitcher Heather Booth, right, throws to first baseman Meagan Ruthrauff Tuesday against Northwestern. 
lllE DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS 
PROUDLY PREsEN'JS 
The GE Prizes for Excellence in Mathematics 
to 

Senior Honors in Mathematics Major 
Margaret Doig 
Senior Mathematics Major 
Kevin Bott 
and 

Aumann Prize for First Year Honors Mathematics Students 
Adam Boocher 
and 

Haaser Scholarships to 
Jessica Cisewski: Emily Gorman and Andrew Rupinski 
and 

J & C Sophomore Award in Mathematics 
Elizabeth Vezino 
and The Kolettis Award in Mathematics to 
Geoffrey Johnston 
The Department of American Studies would like to recognize our senior award winners: 
The Hugh O'Donnell Award for outstanding academic achievement: Kathleen Joyce Margie Miller 
The J. Sinnot Meyer Award for outstanding service to the community: Lauren Flynn Marco Sandusky 
The James E. Murphy Award for exceptional journalism: Aaron Van Oosterhout Annie Robinson 
The Paul Neville-Award for excellence in journalism: Meghanne Downes · 
The Professor James Withey Award for notable achievement in writing: Nick Kolman-Mandie 
** Congratulations on your outstanding achievements! ** 

Wednesdady, April27, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
JOCKULAR 
Hey, what's the deal with Grab 'N' Go today? 
I 


CROISSANTWORLD 
u .... oh. H~rt. 'OM-f.~ c.ra.pp~ t-.!C jo\c.c.. A.sh n (0..0 :su.1.+ \0..'-'<jlt\ ~1"\0 hb \ 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS ~ 1 I ain't no hollaback girl... 
• Let me hear you say this s*** is bananas. B-A-N-A-N-A-5! -........
Myrtle just got an Ipod and can't get it off. "repeat." 
0\,.. hc.\\o 1-he.re... boy$.~ How o.loo\.1,-\-+-h\!. So"'~~ 'Sc.l\d 'N(a+'-'e.r! \-\o\y crqpo \o. -+-ho.+.S I'"H.A-\-S ! 
i.:s 
hee. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

""'Q..\--:S ~reo.~ Hr. 
l='; S\... \.\ ~C\.d 

Oh yes H· \$ ~ "l:.'M 'INOr\dA~ 0"' 0.. \ 1-\-f \C.. o""'c.+~tl"\!) o.b~"" \t>\CI~I~ 
C.t~~.  n "''3C, (.+-S.  t """ttCJ...i\ •  
h  0  W  (.4""  y 0\A.  Mt 'S.S  
""'1~\.o"\  +-ha.-+.  

JUMBLE 
JJ~ID1JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FLUTA 
I I I (J 
C2005 Tribune Medm Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DROAH 
I I ItSELING j

J r
1 
www.Jumble.com 
RUMABI j 
Yesterday' I Jumbles: JOKER s Answer: Spending hours looking through a telescope gave the astronomer a-"DISTANT' LOOK 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHY THE: BRIDE: DIDNT WANT A TRAIN ON HE:R WE:DDING GOWN. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

(Answers tomorrow) INLET ABOUND STOLID 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 40 "Doonesbury" 71 Word spelled character based phonetically by 
Service unit on HunterS. the starts of 7 Itinerary abbr. 

Thompson 1-, 20-, 27-, 36-, 1-:-.-+--1--+--1-i­10 Blunders 49-and
43 Rock's Bon Jovi 56-Across14 Garner of jazz 44 Pushed hard 

15 "Get it?" 48 Genetic material DOWN
16 Nair competitor 49 'The Mothers-in-Law" co-star 1 French 
17 Watergate possessive
judge John 52 Bone: Prefix 2 "_ tu" (Verdi
18 Biblical jawbone 54 Bend shape aria)
source 55 European 3 In formation
19 Way off carrier 4 Rope fiber
20 "No kidding!?" 56 Jimmy Carter autobiography 5 Develop sores
23 Give, as odds 61 Zilch 6 Dabble in
25 Untrustworthy sort 7 Biblical twin
62 Narrow inlet 63 Habituates

26 Up 8 Hardy heroine (trapped) 66 Blue-pencil 
9 Ricky player in 27 Really attractive 67 Creature with a '50s TV tiny waist 
32 Tolkien creature 10 Put on the 68 Bar request books
33 Stop by 69" Dinah" 11 Grid coin tosser
34 Hugs, in a letter (Frankie 12 Collide with, in35 Drugs, briefly Avalon's first hit) 
a way36 Trip to the 70 Range units: 38 Playing hard to 46 Stat. for Pedro 57 Vehicle on rails
13 D and C, in D.C.
Bahamas, e.g. Abbr. get Martinez 21 Like Nasdaq 
58 Glasses option 47 Letters on a39 More morosetrades

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE shingle 59 Boaters and 22 Xanthippe, e.g. 40 Blotted (out) bowlers
49 "Kitchy-_!"

23 Peggy with the 
41 Expose to the 60 Muslim mystic
50 Waggle dance 1958 hit "Fever'' sun performer 64 Yellowstone24 Novelist Rand 42 Grasshopper's 51 Victoria's prince herd member 28 Job for Perry cousin 53 Related 65 Like someMason 45 Stomach-related maternally grins29 Chanteuse Lena 

30 Marker For answers, call 1-900-285-5656; $1.20 a minute; or, with a 31 'There's in credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
'team"' 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday ~:::.+:-:+.:*.+=-! 35 Old World crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. blackbird 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
37 1977 double­past puzzles, riytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). platinum Steely Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Dan album solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is Pvital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip._______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES IH>RN ON THIS DAY: Tionne "T-Boz" Watkins, 35; Jet Li, 42; Bohhy Rydell, 63; Carol Burnett, 72 
Happy Birthday: You may have to do a lillie backlracking in order to move forward. Don't he in too much of a rush: time is on your side and will turn oul to he to your benefit. Once you gel a clear picture of lill' situalion, you can make your move, hut do so with caution. This is not the year to be impulsive. Your numbers are 9. 12, 19, 28. 37, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You will impress everyone today. Teaching and leaming will be the order of the day. Keeping an open mind will be what guides you to something or someone that !urns out to be extremely helpful. ***** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Focus on making money through an investmenl or stricter budgeting. A friend may be able to help you with problems you arc experiencing with family. Talk to someone who can influence your professional 
future. *** GEMINI (May 21-.lune 20): You probably feel like everylhing is up in the air right now. bui when thai happens you usually lhrive, so stop worrying. Consider which partnerships to keep and which to let go. New connections arc on the 
horizon. *** CANCER (.June 21-.luly 22): Do something thai will set your work apart from everyone else. You can make money easily, so consider an investment that could lead to your own business or a safe haven for the money you have already accumulaied. *** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): An opportunity to form a new pmtncrship or rclalionship is apparent. Voice your opinions and you will he looked up to. Take advantage of the support being given. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let emotional matters cloud your mimi today. Clear your head if you arc going to make any kind of decision. You may he feeling restless, but if you arc too impulsive, you will have to backtrack. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You've got a friend: Stop thinking you have to do everything yourself. Call upon that special person who has always been then~ when you need him or her the most. A message will lead you in an interesting direction. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nnv. 21): As long as you hold a 1igh1 rein on your finances, you will sleep well. Someone may try to borrow from you--make it simple and say no. A love intercsl will want to become inti male, so leave room for romance. 
*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Do your thing and have fun, hut don't upset someone who has been on your team all along. Be a class act and include this person in your plans. Personal changes will not be lo your liking. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lan. 19): Give yourself a break and prepare to have a little fun with the ones you love. Your lover. children or best friend will help you enjoy whatever you do that much more. Exercise your hclicfs but don't he too rigid.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. Ill): Get involved and do your part and you will feel so much better about yourself. Troubled waters can he expected at home or when dealing wilh your lover. Try to be positive and, above all. honest. ***" PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): As long as you keep your plans on the 4uiet side, you will face little opposition and should he able to get things done. Don't expect someone you love to understand your plans. Do what you musl to get ahead. ** 
Birthday Baby: You arc a doer and a thinker, willing to take a chance and always where the action is. You have a strong intuition and an ability to set !rends. You are a leader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvict•.com .fiJr.fim, euf(ellialast.com for con.fidt•mia/ 
rnn~ultntinnt 

The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

..------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, April27, 2005 
page 28 
NO SOFTBALL 
Lucky 7 
Four-run seventh inning sparks Irish rally 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior Staff Writer 
Sara Schoonaert delivered with a two-out, two-run walk­ofT single in the bottom of the seventh to complete an amaz­ing comeback as Notre Dame (36-10) defeated No. 15 Northwestern (34-11) 4-3 at Ivy Field Tuesday. 
The Irish were shut down offensively in the first six innings of the game, as Northwestern starter Eileen Canney and reliever Courtnay Foster -who replaced Canney in the fifth -allowed just one hit in that time frame. 
"[Canney] was throwing real­ly hard and jamming our bat­ters early on, but then we started to hit a few atom shots that were right at the defense," Irish coach D.eanna Gumpf said. "We started hit­ting her later in thP. game, so they brought in their ace [Foster], and she had trouble finding the plate so we were 
see RALLY/page 26 


FOOTBALL 
Poised Quinn shovvs confidence in ga111e 
Irish great Montana gives quarterback high praise for play 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Late in the second quarter of Saturday's Blue-Gold game, Brady Quinn dropped back and delivered a perfect throw to his favorite receiver, Rhema McKnight. 
As McKnight was tackled, Quinn began slowly jog­ging up the See Also field to the 
"Defensive line

new line of scrimmage, proves to be calmly look­
strength for

ing toward the sideline, Irish" sure of him­
page24

self and ready to for­get about his flawless throw and move on to the next play. 
For that moment, had a spectator at the stadium not been playing close attention, he might have thought it was another Brady that Charlie Weis was coaching. 
Quinn went on to have a 8­for-12 day, throwing for 160 yards, and 2 scores, leading the Blue team to a 28-6 win. 
Even a certain quarterback named Joe Montana was impressed with the young sig­nal-caller's performance. 
''I've always been excited about his capabilities of being a great quarterback," Montana said. "I think he's done a tremendous job, he's got all the tools." 
While Quinn's competition might not have been up to par with the USCs, the Michigans, and the Tennessees that he will face later in the year, it was still a good indication of the impact that Weis has had already on his starting quar­terback. 
Weis is no stranger to instill­ing winning attitudes in quar­terbacks either. 
For Weis' former on-field extension Tom Brady, it has never been about numbers. He 
see QUINN/page 25 

SMC GOLF 
Saint Mary's on mission to capture golf title 
Belles have finished in top ten past two years at NCAAs 
By KYLE CASSILY Spons Writer 
Many say that the third time is the charm. The Saint Mary's golf team, at least, hopes the supersti­tion is true. 
The Belles will ent(~r their third straight NCAA Division IJI cham­pionship May 10-13 at the Pines Golf Club in Pinehurst, N.C. look­ing to secure the elusive national title. 
The Pines was designed by Donald Hoss, whose courses are known for their challenging pitches and chips. 
"It is a great Donald !loss course that requires accurate drives and the high, soft approaches at which we are bet­ter than anyone," Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. 
In their past two appearances, the Belles finished eighth and 
see BELLES/page 23 


Three seniors hope to end college careers with championship 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
Three seems to be a magic number for the Saint Mary's golf team. The Belles are currently ranked third in the nation among Division-III women's golf pro­grams. In two weeks the team will travel to North Carolina to compete in their third consecu­tive NCAA Championship tourna­ment. And a big part of what has made the program so successful in recent years is the trio of sen­iors who will compete in their final college tournament at the up-coming event. 
For Stefanie Simmerman, Chrissy Dunham and Julia Adams, the prospect of a nation­al title could not have been fur­ther from mind when the three became part of the Saint Mary's golf program as freshmen. For 
~SENIORS/page 22 


ND FOOTBAll 
ND BASEBAll 
MLB 
NBA
NFL 
NHL 

(.) Irish lineman Trevor 
Freshman Brett Lilley 
Alex Rodriguez hits 

Former New York Jets 
Reggie Miller is a 
Todd Bertuzzi attends 

z Laws was named defen­
is cut from the same 

three home runs in the 
force for the Pacers d ur­
a hearing concerning his 

defensive back Johnny 
sive MVP at Saturday's 
cloth as former Irish 

Yankees 12-4 win over 
ing his final season in 
reinstatement with

Samples dies at-the age 
::5 
Blue-Gold Game. 
great Steve Stanley. 

the Angels. 
professional basketball. 
hockey executives. 

= of 67. c::c 
page 24 
page 21 
page 20 

page 18
page 19 
page 16 

en = 
.... .'
' o I o o I o

..•• t'. 0' • ' .• '•.' 


---.--~-~ ..--------------,----,---,-----------------,-,-,--:--;---,----:---:-..,......,.------~.~.-:--.~.-.-.-.------:--:------:"1 
o I I I I • t 

page 2 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Wednesday, April27, 2005 
Transitions at the top 
From Hesburgh to Malloy to Jenkins, ND mission carries on 

by things like that.'' 

By CLAIRE HEININGER 
The challenge was steep.
In Focus Writer 

Hesburgh had revolutionized Notre Dame, creating a lay Most colleges average more Board of Trustees, bringing presidents per decade than women to the University, gain­Notre Dame has had in the last ing academic and athletic half-century. regard -all the while earning President Emeritus Father the respect of priests and U.S. 
Theodore Hesburgh headed presidents alike. 
the University for 35 years. "I think all of us leave a !ega­
Outgoing President Father cy, especially if you have been 
Edward Malloy served for 18. around for a long time, but I 
Together, the pair oversaw think a new president brings in 
Notre Dame's 53-year rise new ideas, new dreams, new 
from an all-male, chiefly visions," Hesburgh said. 
Midwestern school known for "When Father Malloy took 
its crucifixes and quarterbacks over I said, 'Look, I did what I 
to a more diverse, world-thought I could do, now you do 
renowned institution with a what you think you can do to 
formidable and complex repu-keep the University improving. 
tation. If I can ever give you advice 
From the outside, presiden-I'm around to do it, but I don't 
tial transitions at Notre Dame expect the phone to ring off the 
are as momentous as they are hook because you have to run 
rare. But from the inside, a your own show."' 
transition is just another That phone rang only "occa­
aspect in the mission of the sionally" as Malloy's tenure 
University -and of the men began, Hesburgh said. And as 
who lead it. the new president cultivated 
"It's like any other president, his confidence and refined his 
like the president of a corpora-leadership style, the former 
tion or president of the United president was pleased with 
States," Hesburgh said. "Every what he saw. 
president brings in new ideas, "You can't ask more of a 
but they aren't independent of leader than to have a vision 
the history or the development and to work towards it," 
of the institution he presides Hesburgh said. "You also try to 
over." support the current leadership 
Following a legend and don't expect it to be the 
During the transition from same as yours -it never is ­
the renowned Hesburgh to the but to back the person that fol­
then-relatively unknown lows you up." 
Malloy in 1986-87, one ques-Hesburgh's support wasn't 
tion kept surfacing. always the most visible -to 
"I used to get asked all the the best of his ability, the leg­
time, 'Were you intimidated to end stayed true to his promise 
take over for a legend?'" to "get out of the way"-but 
Malloy said. "And I went, 'No.' Malloy knew it was there. And 
"Now, part of it may have though he sought other past 
been that I felt the University Notre Dame presidents for 
was in good shape. Part of it advice during his transition 
was I had a degree of self-con-into office, he credits his 
fidence that if I had been cho-immediate predecessor with 
sen [as the next president], I both paving the way for his 
would do the best I could, and professional leadership and 
I would just count on it work-setting a more specific person­
ing out. Since I have my back-al example. 
ground in competitive athlet-"He would've been tbe clos­
ics, I've always enjoyed a chal-est thing to a model because in 
l~nge. I've. _n~v~ been cow~._.a.,s~'Js~ .• the only_.ijf~~i~e_nt I 
knew at Notre Dame was Father Hesburgh," Malloy said. "I think the transition went very smoothly ... and 18 years later ... all I can say is positive things about Father Hesburgh because he was so good to me and has been all the way.'' 
Leaming the ropes 
Notre Dame has sustained remarkable growth during Malloy's presidency, from rap­idly-climbing SAT scores to a steadily-sprawling campus. But now that it i~ his turn to carry on the legacy, University President-elect Father John Jenkins knows he can't afford to focus on the progress of the presidents who came before him. 
"It's humbling to take on this job. It's humbling to follow people who have accomplished as much as Father Hesburgh and Father Malloy. I recognize that," Jenkins said. "[But] if you're always thinking, 'Oh, somebody before me is really great, and I can't measure up,' you're not going to do a good job. 
"[You] just do the best you can. And that's what I'm going to do every day and try to sleep well at night." 
Jenkins acknowledged that like "anything in life," it would be impossible for him to be fully prepared to assume the presidency. That hasn't stopped him from taking full advantage of his 14-month transition period, however, by spending time visiting Board of Trustees members and past presidents and interacting with Malloy. The president-elect also attended a "very valuable" workshop last summer for new presidents of Catholic col­leges and universities, Malloy said. 
"We not only [taught] the kind of 'theory' [of running a Catholic institution]." said Malloy, who, along with Provost Nathan Hatch, direct­ed the sessions, "but also a lot of,s!J:~ing presidents s~ared their experience and what they had learned along the way. So [Jenkins] has done that ... I think that he's used his time well." 
As that time ticks down, the responsibility of ensuring a successful beginning to the Jenkins era falls almost as much on Malloy as it does on his successor. 
"I would feel terrible ifthings didn't go well and if we weren't continuing to make progress, because that's what we were trying to set up the stage for, to be better in all the ways that are most impor­tant," Malloy said. "Father Hesburgh did that for me, and I've tried to do that for Father Jenkins, and I'm going to be a great fan and supporter and advocate of his leadership and where the University's going to go from here." 
The big picture 
On July 1, the number of men who have headed Notn~ Dame in the last 53 years will grow to three. The number of officially complete presidential transitions will become two. But there will still be one con­stant -a University mission that exists apart from the priest sitting in the president's office. 
"Notre Dame is bigger than me, bigger than you, bigger than any individual," Jenkins said. "It's not just me or what I think, or you and what you think -it's a tradition that is bigger than that, and I firmly believe that this place is guided by God's providence and God's designs, and we try to make ourselves instruments of that. 
" ... I firmly believe in the mission of Notre Dame and its importance for the world, not because of anything I bring, but because of what the place is and the people involved," he said. "I think it's got a wonder­ful past, but its best years lie ahead." 
Contact Claire Heininger at 
cheining@nd.e~'! 
Wednesday, April 27, 2005 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 3 

Experiences with diversity shape young Malloy 
Washington, D.C. native attends a multiracial high school, witnesses the civil rights nzovement firsthand 
"prized and encouraged educa­Carroll basketball team. trip to t\guascalientns, Mexico. It and students," he wrotn. "t\nd IBy EILEEN DUFFY tion" l'or tlwir children, aceord­"IMy l'atherl was driving us, I was at the Basilica ol' Cristo Hoy was ablt~ to continue tPaching,
In l'ocu' Writer 
ing to a 2001 article in The think to Villanova," Malloy said. high on a mountain. Malloy said, scholarship and pastoral artivi­
Catholic Standard. It was during "In Delaware we stopped at a when he was sure hn wanted to ty." 
"I havn a drnam that my li111r Malloy's timn at St. Anthony's, in place and they mfusnd l.o servo be a priest. . Ascent to the presidency littln rhildrPn will one day livn in third grade, that he began rail­us -only tho white players. I "The combination of' being in lin was also director of tho a nation wlwrn thny will not he ing 01111 of his friends "Bunky." never forgot that. I was so another culture, feeling motivat­Master of' Divinity IM.I>ivl pro­judgnd hy llw color of tlwir skin When Bunky needed a retort, he ol'fendnd -these were my ed to be in a helping profession gram, thnology pmli~ssor Bohnrt hul hy thn COlltPllt of tlwir char­eamn up with "Monky," whieh friends." and being •-eally moved by that Krieg said. but he wmbinml all actor." was later shortennd to "Monk." Many yeats later Malloy had plaee,'' he told the New York these duties with nasn. 
Wlwn 22-ynar-old Iiddin Malloy thnn moved on to another run-in with raeial ten­Times, "gave me this profound "Whiln taking stops to improve Malloy stood among llw crowd Washington, D.C.'s Archbishop sion, whieh he detailed in his sense of' certitude about what I the M.Div. program. he taught at Martin I.utlwr King, .Jr.'s 1963 Carroll lligh Sehool. By his sen­book "Monk's Travels: People, wanted to do with my lil'n." undnrgraduates nvnry smnnstnr sptHH'.h, he probably wasn't ior year, Malloy was ranknd firth Places and Evnnts." In 1968, The following two summers, and rnmainnd committl~d to thinking about lwcorning prnsi­aeadmnically in his elass and after King had bnen killed, there he did two morn service projnets their education," said Kring, dnnt of his alma matnr, the had snrvml as studnnt body and was rioting in Washington, D.C. in Latin America. who worked with Malloy. "Whiln Univorsity of Notre Damn. But elass prnsident and yearbook When things seemed to have set­"Those experiences inllueneed he could havn rnsidml at Mornau wlwn lw did 24 years latnr, lw editor. lin also wrote !'or the tled, Malloy and another semi­my perspective on the divisions Seminary, hn chose to rnsidn in carriPd a lil'ntinw ol' nxpnrinncos Croseent, the studnnt newspa­narian took a drive to survey the between rich and poor and the Sorin llall so that hn could with divnrsity -racial, sodon­pnr, and was chairman ol' tho eity. When they turned onto 14th appreciation or the diversity of' remain elose to undergradu­t'onornic and religious. Those Progressive Party his junior Street, Malloy recalled, "All hell cultures," he said. ates." 
•~yns that had stwn so mueh year. broke loose." In 1967, Malloy enternd Malloy l'requnntly arrived at injustice nnsurnd that minorities According to The Catholic /\midst -violent activity, Moreau Seminary at Notre his M. () iv. ol'f'icn 1:o nco rned havn a placn at Notrn Damn -Standard, Malloy learned a groat Malloy's ear stalled, and the win­Dame. While studying for the about the well being ol' somn of' under tlwir watch, thn pnrcnnt­deal from his Augustinian dows were smashed. When they priesthood, he eompleted a mas­tho undergraduall~ students in agn ol' t\nwrican minority stu­priests at Carroll. made their way out and found a ter's in English and another in his coursns or in his rnsidnncn dtmLo.; grow from 7.7 to H1.6 pnr­"They gave me the sense that policnman, he asked if they were theology. hall, Kring said. t:nnt. thorn was nothing irreeoncilable hurt, and they said no. Following his ordination, "For example, hn ofttm was up Early years about bning a priest and a com­"Get out of' here," the police­Malloy entered the doctoral pro­during the night with thnm at 
t\ nativn of Washington, D.C., mittnd teaehnr," he said. man then said to Malloy and his gram at Vanderbilt University's tho hospital if' they were sick, or Univnrsity l'rnsidnnt Fathnr Malloy also played basketball friend. "This city is up for grabs Divinity School, where he eanwd meeting with them if' they had l~dward Malloy was born on all four years at Carroll -and and we can't pay attention to a Ph.D. in Christian Ethics in lnarned of' the illnnss or dnath of' Dnc. :~. I941, to Edward and ho. played it well. !lis senior every minor event." 1975. According to The a parent," Kring said. "lin suc­l·:lizaheth (non Clark) Malloy. ynar, Malloy eo-captained a team Malloy was also asked by Vanderbilt llustler, studying cnnded in attending to tho edu­1\arh parnnt had personal that began a 55-game winning King's family to speak at alongside Catholics enhanced eation of' both tho future lnadnrs impad on tho young Malloy, streak, extending into the next Ebenezer Baptist Church in Malloy's education. of the Catholie Church in tho M. Malloy Jatnr wrotn in a lloly soason. One of the most impor­Atlanta, whieh he described in "I learned a lot about other Div. program, and also the Notrn Cross publication. While his tant aspects of' his high school his book as "a great thrill." traditions and, at tho same time, Dame undnrgraduatns." motlwr was "the Jibnral Catholic earenr. though, was learning and The four years Malloy spent at my own," he told the llustler. In 1986, Malloy was named inllunr11:e -gnntle in judgnwnt playing basketball alongside Notre Dame as an undergradu­His elassmates' experienees the sucenssor to then-University ol' othnrs, eonl'idnnt ol' God's blacks. ate were not as perfect as some were equally nnhancnd. President Fathnr Thnodorn nwn:y l'or sinnnrs," his father "It gave me a conereto exam­might imagine. "Our interchange with him llnsburgh. llnsburgh was was "morn conservative -a ple or living, working and Ofl'ernd 50 basketball scholar­and the other Roman Catholic Malloy's number onn roll~ model ddnndnr ol' thn l'opn and all befriending one another in a ships, Malloy chose Notre Dame students made for a vastly more for the job, Malloy said. things ( :atholic." rnultiradal soeiety," Malloy told for its Catholic mission. Once enriching educational experi­"Clearly my model of' president 
Malloy put his Catholicism into The Catholic Standard. there, though, he spent a good ence for all of' us," said Hiehard was Father llnsburgh," Malloy prartkn by serving as an altar Malloy's father sot the preen­deal of' time on the bench. In Harrison, Malloy's dassmatn said, "bneausn I worked with boy at St. Anthony's Catholie dent for the young Malloy's addition, according to a New and former assoeiate professor him and he did a gnmt job and grammar school. In an intnrvinw radal tolerance. t\ccording to a York Times Magazine article, he of Church history at Vanderbilt. was very encouraging of' nw:" with tlw Washington l'ost. one of Washington Post artide, he was began his college career as an Malloy returned to Notre llownver honon~d Malloy was his high school baskdhall tnam­involved in prnparations !'or enginenri ng major -but Damn in 1974 and began serving at his prnsidnntial appointmnnt matns (;norw~ l.Pftwieh pointml Martin Luthnr King, Jr.'s mareh flunked math and engineering as an associate professor with in I 986, lw must have had sonw to Malloy as tlw n~ason for his on Washington and a member of drawing during his first semes­tenure in tho department of the­inclinations towards thn roln. In ronvPr'sion to Catholicism. tho Knights ol' Columbus as well ter, prompting a switch to ology. In 1981, he was namnd Archbishop Carroll lligh Sdwol's 
"Monk's llw singlt~ most as thn Knights of St. John, a English. Finally, as Malloy vice president and associate ynarbook, nach senior's proliln rPsponsihlP pnrson l'or my lwing largnly black group. Malloy was recently admitted at tlw tribute provost. In a chaptnr he wrotn indudes a nicknanw, likn "Tho a Catholic.," l.ol'l.wirh said. vnry conenrned with intngration "Miehiana Salutes Monk," a on "Succeeding a Legend at the road-runnnr!" or "Bnnr-hPIIy!" Malloy's parnnts snrvnd as in tho eity, said John Thompson. South Bend een~mony held in his University of' Notre Damn," Next to Malloy's smiling l'acn. LPI'Iwirh's godparPnts on tlw day orw of Malloy's tnammatns at honor in February, he never Malloy eallnd his time in those thn caption n~ads "Monk -Tlw hi' was haptiznd. Carroll. passed the swim test. positions "invaluabln." eagn prnsidm1t." 
t\lthough rwil.hPr 1-:dward Sr. In Tho Washington l'ost, Answering the call "I was abln to como to know a nor l~lizalwth Malloy had ('(lntin­Malloy n~eallnd a scnnn wlwn t\l'tt~r his junior year at Notrn broad cross-snction of' the uni­Contact Eileen DuffY at UI'd past high sr hool, llwy ugly racism was aimed at tho Damn. Malloy wont on a servicn vmsity community, l'arulty, stall' eduffyI @nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday, April 27, 2005 
~·N,l~f~ 

l%'1~~~~~~· 
~Mah~~~ ~-~;:(~~...,...~ 
~·-~:··~·*'~
~~~~~ 
..&.d<i~~-~~ 

'<!IW~~~·~· lf~~~ ......t~-~~U.. l9lV~~
~\1~1\~t.. 

q~ ~·-.ll~-~~ ~~·~~~ ~..eM¥:·~~~ 
'lllt'~nulw.~•~
~~~~M., Q~~~·--··
~.l.l.:~~·~iilm0
0.~~~ ~~---~~~ :M¥1~~~ 
~~~···"*'~
1986 
~~%~ 
~~~-·~ 
~~··~:~~ l98& ~~~ilt.Gm ~ali«~~~· 
.JWFl~~~~ ~~~· 
~~-~ am~....,.~ ... 
~·$..l~-..t~lf
O.WS:~ ~·*~~ld\u 
u.oml4l!l~\.W:d~ 

-~~.~~-NBC_,
~."'~·~~~ 


~~bGtU.~..J~f~ ~·~n.-~ -w~ •~"11._._.~
~\~th~~~ t-~b·*-\J~•wdl•~
-~r*J·hmias~ ~w•~ 
--..~~­

Hoops brought Monk to ND, remained central to identity 
By PAT LEONARD 
In Focus Writer 

At a University so attentive to ath­letic achievement, Father Edward Malloy fit right in. It was basketball, after all, that first brought him to Notre Dame. 
Having won 55 straight games and oarned a No. 1 team ranking as a player for Archbishop John Carroll High School in Washington, D.C., Malloy received 50 different scholar­ship offers to play basketball at the next level. Malloy said he chose Notre Dame because the school, among other things, was Catholic. 
The experiences on the court and in the elassroom would benefit Malloy in all future endeavors, whether in the seminary or in the president's office, and would make him a frequent and visible fan at football games and men's and women's basketball games during his presidential tenure. 
"One of the things that you can learn as a student-athlete is how to balance your lil'e, which everybody struggles with, every student," Malloy said. "But I can tell you it won't change in the rest of your life, trying to balance profession and fam­ily and eitizenship and the Church and so on." 
Malloy lettered one year as a varsi­ty athlete at Notre Dame, but he would not develop an enormous ath­letic reputation until he returned as Sorin Hall's assistant rector in 1979, according to former Sorin resident and 1983 graduate Jack Burke. 
"!Malloy) recruited a couple guys from the dd1'ln to come over, and ini­tially we were playing against the [Moreau) seminarians," said Burke, a first-team All-Bookstore Basketball member his senior year who also down to the first Ooor and the crowd off screens and get that quick shot half." played on the same Bookstore team would be waiting," Burke said. off ... he had a real strong outside Tendonitis in Malloy's shoulder as Malloy the year before. "We would Malloy made the shot and was real accu-halted his athletic career in time, but walk over [to the seminary] around nighttime games a "He was a good rate." Malloy's "persistence" -as Burke 10:15, start around 10:30 and play friendly and competi­Burke, now a consulting described one of his most distinct
player ... as you could 

until about midnight." tive tradition, espe­actuary at Milliman USA qualities -would serve him well as
probably imagine with 

Burke said so many Sorin residents cially due to his back­in Wayne, Penn., also said he succeeded the legendary were interested in playing that they ground as an accom­someone who played Malloy held his own physi­University President Emeritus Father eventually did not need the seminari­plished player. cally with the much Theodore Hesburgh as president of
at the college level.'' 

ans as competition. Malloy and a "He was a good younger players. Notre Dame. select group of Sorin residents began player ... as you could "Relative to the college "Since I have my background in playing basketball consistently -probably imagine Jack Burke kids, he was not lightning competitive athletics, I've always every Monday and Wednesday from with someone who former Sorin resident fast," Burke joked, "but enjoyed a challenge," Malloy said. 
10:30 p.m. to 12 a.m.-and thus played at the college he could run a whole 
began 'Monk Hoops.' level," Burke said. "He had a quick game. He could definitely run up and Contact Pat Leonard at "He'd come out of his room, come release from the outside. He'd go up down the court for an hour and a pleonard@nd.edu 


April!, 2001
February 5. I 999: Malloy says AprillO, 200I 
The Irish women's basketball team, 
that the decision of the Board of A 20-year-old female Notre Dame student coached by Muffet M.:Graw, defeats 
'frustees to vote against joining the alleges that three current and one former football Purdue 68-67 at the NCAAfmals in
Big Ten affirmed Notre Dame's unique l"viard1 13, 2000: Ivfalloy player gang-raped her at a house off-carnpus. The men St. Louis, Mo. 
identity. "Notre Dame has a core identity: announces Kevin Wbite as the were expelled from the University after a campus disciplinary 
Catholic, private, and independent. An Univenity's 1 I th athletic director hearing on April25. lnl"v1arch 2002, only Abrarn Flam, one association with the Big Ten would only and the first to report direc:tly out of the four accused, was convicted on a criminal charge. involve one dement of that identiLy, to the University's president rather sexual battery. He was acquitted ofconspiracy to commit rape independence." than the exemtive vic.-e president. and crinlinal deviate conduct on August 30, 2002. 

May 2000: TI1e Board of 1Iustees December 2, 200 I: Bob Davie is fired as the 2000: The Eck Notre Dame 
ousts Father William Beauchamp from University's football coach after two losing seasons Visitors' Center and the adjacent 
1999 

the office of executive vice president, SepteJnlx:r 1 ,l, 200 l: After monitoring in the past three years. Davie served as football Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
appointing Frather Tmrothy Scully in his the monungs attacks, Mallo! and others coad1 for five years, compiling a 35-25 record-are dedicated. 
stead. The move came after a series of scramble to put together an 1lllpromptu the third lowest winning percentage in Irish l:ti,'tory. mass ofprayer and remembrance on South
scandals in Beauchamp's office, most notably Quad, attended by many in the Notre Dame 
several incidents involving the football and South Bend conununities. 
program and subsequent NCAAsanctions. 
,v 

Wednesday, April 27, 2005 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 5 

Augua: 26, 1997 ~ Uoi~ty adopts *"The Spirit d lndusion at Notte Dame• statement dw ScpktUher 6, 1997: "The lr:Ub football wd~ all ~~to Neue Dame, based on the tcadDogs cl the Giliolic team plays ill lint gam..-i.a tb~ ­<llurch. "The docwm:nr specilically rd'm: to the aa:qnncr: clgays and ·~ Nom-Dunr Sudium. Thr apmsioo imo the OOOllbuoity and di~ dUcriminatiOIL ~u. citing *the ~ 20.000 ~ i.a~sing tearing danger cla ~ in the ~ being mi.siou:rprrted by civil coum, • the ap~cily to 80,285. Uni~ni.ty ~to modify its lrgal discrimination d.aJ.KC to include saual oci.-,otatioo, despit~ a propom by the Ad Hoc Camuinec: on Gay and letban Student Netds in 1996. 
1999 

!lvlay l, 1997: "The lli~ty annoum:u Dt=mber 1999: The l'«::AA ~N.oi:R Dame's the ~ cl the •<Jentnuons· c.unpaign. 
nhkt.K programJ oo. probarioo. afto-finding it guilty
1996: Dr. Nathan Hatch ~~.~CCCed. 
the largm fundcaUi.ag initiati~ in the 
cl major infcactioo.s h the fmt timt i.a the Khool.'s history.
Dr. TwKJthy 0'~ ;u Univa~ity 
histay cl Catholic higher education. 
NCAA cifici.ak cited dtree situations: a femal~ boostcT,
Pra."'Ofl. rrsporui~ for thr admini.rtcation. 
Alrhough the Univttsity establish.~s agoal 
Kim Dunbar, who •"'-as rom:mtial.ly involwd with ~f~ballcoordinatioo and dn-dQPWtDt ci all ol the 
cJ$767 million. the ~gn netS IDOR' 
players who ga~ gifts and others iwns of ~ue tow playc:n' teanumt~·aca<kmic activities and functions at Notre: 
than Sl billion fouc yean lat«c"c. 
an at:hkk who had cHm:d camplinrnr.ary t.i<hu to his girlfriend in mumDamt. Hatch is reappointed for a ~ 
far a loan, and anodtttwho had paid a tutor to~ a paper for him.
fi""·)WS tmn i.a 200I. 

Busy president finds time 
for books, travel, movies 
America and the Far East. lie has also
By KAREN LANGLEY 
bnnn to the African nation ol' Cameroon
In rocus Writer 
and both Australia and New Zealand ­trips that often caused him to develop per­
Fallwr Hdward Malloy has spent the sonal insighLo.; on thn world. past IS years as preside11t of one of the "What IAfrical needs most is hope," he most prnstigious universities in the coun­wrote. "Both education and the Church try. so it should Wlllll as no surprise that must play a role in this regard, but in the his personal intnrnsts lean towards the ond it will require African leadership. intdleetual. Despite Malloy's busy sched­International agencies can assist but not ule, lw still rnakns time to broaden his impose." mind through reading, wat1~hing films and Malloy's voyages have allowed him to tmvding. meet some of the most famous people of 
Malloy has a passion fi>r books of praeti­the modern age. In 1995, he was given the eally all g1lnres. opportunity to celebrate Mass with Pope 
"Them's a side of me that could just sit John Paull!. in a room and read all the books," he said. "When lthe Popnl got to us, the secre­"Anybody who's ever visited my room ... tary told him we were from Notre Dame. knows that I'm an inveterate reader. I lie nodded and said, 'Chicago.' Not want­have wide-ranging interests -I want to ing to correct him, we figured that was rPad from now until my last gasp." dose enough," Malloy wrote. 
Malloy's curiosity about many subjects Malloy noted that although Pope John h<L'i led him to explore a variety of genres. Paul II appnared healthy, both his age and 
"Thn mason to me that's so exciting is infirmity were apparent. evnry time I open a new book it's a ehance "If a..<;ked, I would have plenty of advice that both the aesthotics of it, but also the to ofier about various Church policies and content of it, are attractive to me," he priorities," Malloy wrote. "But I must said. admit that the responsibility he carries is 
Malloy profnsses an internst in fiction, daunting, and all he can do is serve God hioJ.,rraphy and autobiography, as well as aecording to his eonseience and his best soda! sdenee theory. sense ol'things." 
"I like polities a lot.'' he said. "In recent While Malloy's curiosity and involve­years, I've read a lot about American ment have taken him around the globe, presi<!ents, different aspects of govern­his interests have also provided a common ment. ground for those dose to him. Those who 
I lis reading selections have also been know Malloy know exactly what to give allilcted by recent world nvenl'i. him l'or gil'ts. 
"I've read 25 books about terrorism and "People never know what to give me so about Islam and lslamie fundamentalism they give me all these gift certificates for since 9/11," he said. Barnes and Noble or whatever," he said. 
Malloy, whose profession often inspires "And now recently people have given me him to rnad theology and ethics, is deeply gift certificates for DVD stores." internstnd in the many nations and peo­Malloy has developed an extensive col­plns of the world. lection of films on DVD. 
"I like to read a lot of things [that are] "Lately I've been watching a bunch ol' gnOJ.,>Taphieal or cultural," he said. "I have documentaries as well as some regular three shnlves of books about Ireland and films, which is a whole genre now that is Irish culturn and history." becoming popular because with DVDs you 
Dnspite Notre Dame's affinity for all can buy them and have a bigger audience things Irish, Malloy's geo1,rraphic interests than you would il' you showed it l'or one arn not limited to the Gaelic nation. lie is week in some movie theater," he said. 
an avid traveler, having visited many Malloy's DVD collection is a response to eountrins on six continents. some of his long-term intellectual inter­
"My goal on my trips was ... to be open ests. to an nndless round ol' new expnrienees "I love theatre, and I love film," he said, and possibilities," Malloy wrote in his listing music, opera and dance as other book, "Monk's Travnls." pleasures he will enjoy during his years as 
Malloy has travelnd extensively through­president emeritus. out western and eastern Europe, the Mediterranean, Latin America, South Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 
Monk's seminars featured diverse students, syllabus 
ion."
By JARRETT LANTZ 

Hichelle Thomas, a l'nllow student.
In Focus Writer 

agreed that the diversity in the class ben­
nlited students. 
During his tnnure as prnsident, Father "There are people of many diiTernnt Edward Malloy workHd to draw students races and cultures rnprnsnntnd and I pno­from diverse backgrounds to Notre ple) from dill"nrent parts of' the country as Dame. And l'or the lucky few in his fresh­well," Thomas said. "We are all very dif­man seminar class each year, hn was ferent and unique. Everyonn has t.lwir able to extend a personal wHkome. own story and experiences that help 
Ever since the second year ol' his presi­them bring new ideas to the table." deney, Malloy has taught a literature Although many Notre Damn freshmen seminar for first-year students. Unlike say they felt out of' plaen arriving at most seminars. many ol' the students in school, some of those clwsnn !'or Malloy's Malloy's class were selectively chosen on class had a particularly hard timn adjust­recommendation ol' a first year advisor ing due to factors such as living in <moth­or another administrator. As a man who er country. llowever, Malloy's formnr stu­has visited more than 70 countries, dents have notnd that the class helped Malloy strove to bring a wide range ol' them fit in to the Notre Dame culture. people, cultures and ideas to his Glass­"I was talking to my adviser about. how room. I did not l~lel like Notre Damn was very 
"The people in my class have been ger­diverse and was having trouble relating rymandered to be quite diverse racially, to other students," said Susan Kippnls, a ethnically, and internationally," Malloy freshman who has lived in .Jerusalom said. "Usually half of' the students are and England and whose family resides in men and half women. I've enjoyed teach­Uganda. "As a result, she told me this ing it, because I think we're modeling a class would be a good fit for me, and it little bit of my hope l'or Notre Dame as a has been." multieultural and international institu­Malloy believed in strong interactions tion." with each of his students. During the 
Like the students in his class, the course ol' the semester, Malloy called in course content represented a wide range each of his students individually to dis­of' cultures, including Indian, Chinese, cuss their backgrounds, their thoughl'> of Israeli and Vietnamese. This year, stu­the class, or whatever was on their mind. dents read books such as The Life of Pi, "l feel that Monk took an interost into Night of Many Dreams, Tears of the what each one of us valued and Giraffe and Around the World in 80 Days, thought," Guerra said. "lie wanted to as well as watching The English Patient hear from each one ol' us and not only and The Motorcycle Diaries. hear !'rom the few outspoken students. 
"All of [the books and movies] are set Everyone added his or her own take on in a difl"erent culture or country or time the topic ofconversation." in history," Malloy said. "[They) are Unfortunately for Notre Dame's incom­intended to help the students learn the ing freshmen, Malloy will not teach any capacity for empathy to try to get inside classes next year. Instead of teaching, he the experience ol' people different !'rom plans to spend his first year as president themselves." emeritus writing books, taking in con­
Many of Malloy's students agreed that certs at the DeBartolo Performing Arts along with the books and movies, the Center and relaxing. Malloy does plan to diverse population of' the classes allowed teach at the University after his sabbati­the students to learn a great deal about cal year, but he's not quite sure what. each other's cultures. "It could be [another literature dass), it 
"It is difficult to get to know students in could be an ethics class -I could teach a other classes, but in this particular class, course on biography and autobiography, closer relationships are formed," said or I could teach a course on education or Frank Guerra, a student in Malloy's higher education or leadership," Malloy class. "We have learned so much about said. "There's a lot of' dill"erent possibili­our different backgrounds and different ties, and I think what I'll do second personalities. Our diseussions have led semester of next year is pin it down." to challenging each other's view, but respecting everyone's individual opin-Contact Jarrett Lantz at jlantz2@nd.edu 
l.>t-cember 9, 200 l: George April 30, 2004: Malloy announces cl~at he will step 

December I3, 2004: New O'Leary is hired as the University's down as Notre Dame's president. Father John Jenkins England Patriots offemive head football coad1. Five days later March 18, 2002: University amtounces dtanges to is uamed as Malloy's successor. The Board of 11-ustees coordinator OJ.arlie Weis he is ton-ed to resign after it is its almhol poliqo. 1he revised policy, presented i.n response also elects J olm Affleck-Graves the first lay exeatt.ive 
is hll·ed as the Notre Dame to results of a student survey on alcohol that began in 2000,

discovered that he lied in his vi~ president. 
head foothtll coach.

included a ban on hard alcohol in residence halls and in-lJall September 2004: The Marie P. De&rtalo Ce11ter 
rr~ume. 
dances. It also included a rewriting of the tailgating policies for the Perlarming Arts is dedicated. The performing to pennit of-age studems to drink in designated parking lots aud visual arts and nutsic facility, which cost more tl~an on home football weekends. $64 million, features five venues. 
2005 


January I, 2002: Notre November :10, 2004
Spring 2002: Notre Dame's endowment decreases 
Dame announces tl1e hiring Tyrone Willingham is fired after coaching Icish
dr:umtic:ally due to a struggling economy, prompting
of head football coadt Tyroue football for thr~e seasons, .,.,;th a 21-l 5record.
tlte Board of lrustees to halt ntany capital 
/tme 30, 2003: Father Tunothy Scully's resignation as
\VJlingh.un. who becomes It was the ftrst time tltat Notre Dame fired its
improvemellls. Planning :u1d construction of the 
Executive Vice President takes dh~ct. Malloy asslllnes
t.he school's ftrst black head football coach before his original COiltr:LCt expired.
new security building and po6t office are postponed, 
the respornibilities of the office instead of seeking a
coach. 


and all University budgets, with tlte exception of 
rt"placement.. There was no official reason given for the July 1, 2005 Malloy cedes presidency to Father John Jenkins
fi.ttancial aid, are tightened. 
May1 a.nnmmcement, either fl'om the University or &om Scully. afi.er 18 years in office. 
Information compiled by Steve Kerins and Katie Wagner GRAHAM EBETSCH/ Observer Graphic 
......... ' .
. . . . . . . 

page 6 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday, April 27, 2005 
18 years later, Monk 
ByKATEANTONACCimdMARY KATE MALONE 
In Focus Writers 
In 1987, Father Edward Malloy took over for Father Theodore Hesburgh as president of Notre Dame -ending a tenure that, at the time, was the longest among active presidents of American institutions of higher learning. 
For the next 18 years, Malloy would guide the helm of the nation's premier Catholic university and lead it to a new level ofexcellence. 
Despite the prestige of his role among Catholics and non-Catholics alike, Malloy found the job to be humbling nonetheless. 
"You are very aware of your humanness when you have these kind ofjobs," Malloy said. 
Perhaps Malloy's humanity was what made his term so steady. He believed in his administration, but never stepped out of Mary's watchful stare from atop her Golden Dome. 
From the start, Malloy's 18-year tenure was defined and driven by the fulfillment of one over­arching goal. 
"I wanted to focus on Notre Dame's mission and identity as a Catholic university," he said. "That was my No.1 priority." 
If "catholic" means universal, Malloy pursued the manifestation of that word to its fullest defi­nition. The leadership under which the University thrived was based on Malloy's deter­mination to preserve its religious identity while simultaneously expanding its scope to an inter­national level. Diversity 
Daniel Saracino, a Notre Dame graduate who currently serves as the University's director of admissions, had always believed the longevity of Notre Dame's success would ultimately rely on its enhancement of minority recruiting. 
"I would not have returned to Notre Dame in 1997 if I did not firmly believe that we were committed to making our community more eth­nically diverse," Saracino said. • 
Saracino had nothing to worry about. 
In reflecting on his goals as president, diversity is consistently at the top of Malloy's list. 
"I wanted to make sure that we were continu­ing to move forward as a coeducational institu­tion as well as a multicultural institution," Malloy said. 
With steadfast authority and what Provost Nathan Hatch describes as "unpretentious integrity," Malloy carried the University to a new level in its recruitment of minorities. 
A native of Washington, D.C., Malloy grew up in a richly diverse community. Saracino said per­haps Malloy's childhood played a role in shaping his goals when he became the president of the University in 1987. 
"You don't realize how much you value diver­sity until it is taken away from you," Saracino said. "He clearly understood that Notre Dame could not be a great Notre Dame without more ethnic diversity." ' 
Diversity became one of the cornerstones of Malloy's presidency. In the 18 years of his leader­ship, Notre Dame's percentage of minority stu­dents more than doubled -from 8 percent in 1986 to 23 percent in next year's incoming fresh­man class. Ifinternational students are included, that number more than triples, rising from 8.1 percent to more than 25 percent in the class of 2009. 
But diversity stretches beyond mere figures. Malloy created a University firmly committed to expanding its ethnic scope on a worldwide level. 
In 1999, the late Julian Samora founded Notre Dame's Institute for Latino Studies, an organiza­tion committed to fostering a bettor understand­ing of Latino Catholic culture in the United States. The Institute funds researcl1 in a variety of fields related to Latino culture and, Ilatch believes, serves as a concrete example that diversity at Notre Dame goes bnyond student body makeup. It is an ongoing mi<>sion spanning all aspects of the University, Hatch said. 
"The Institute for Latino Studins is a great example ofour mission lor diversity," Hatch said. "Its creation bears on our Catholic identity while focusing on the issue of minority life.'~ 
The greater inclusion of minority student<> can be partly attributed to the dramatic increase in financial aid, Hatch said. 
"In the last decade, our financial aid has become nationally competitive. Anyone who gets in here can go here, regardless of their financial situation," Hatch said. "If you look at why we have so many more minorities, the single most important reason is financial aid." 
Malloy was consistently committed to defying modern· economic injustice by accommodating students whose families could not afford a Notre Dame education on their own. He was deter­mined to bring worthy students to Notre Dame, focusing on not just racial diversity but also socioeconomic. During Malloy's presidency, Notre Dame has seen a 1,000-fold increase in University-administered financial aid. In just the 2004-05 school year, scholarship and financial aid increased 10 percent. 
Catholic Identity 
When asked to describe his boss on a personal level, Hatch literally pulled out a quote from his pocket. 
The words, highlighted in a newspaper obitu­ary, read, "The true measure of a man is how he treat<> those who can do him no good." 
"Monk treats everyone with the same respect and honor. That is a great virtue," Hatch said. "And he is a priest -that kind of character is a key quality for a Catholic university." 
To his closest colleagues, Malloy's sincerity and humility were the anchors that kept the University grounded to its Catholic roots. 
"Notre Dame's foremost mission established by Father Sorin is clear, and Monk has overseen that execution," Hatch said. 
To critics, Malloy's mission might seem to be a paradox in itself. Some claimed that the preser­vation of a traditional Catholic identity could not coexist with a Notre Dame that holds academic freedom high on its priority list. 
For example, Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy has opposed Notre Dame's decision to host the Queer Film Festival and the Vagina Monologues, exchanging letters with Malloy and eventually releasing public statements denounc­ing each event. 
"Freedom in the Catholic tradition, and even in the American political tradition, is not the right to do anything," D'Arcy's statement on the Monologues read. "[Pope John Paul ill indicates certain parameters relative to freedom; namely, truth and the common good. This play violates the truth about women; the truth about sexuali­ty; the truth about male and female; and the truth about the human body. It is in opposition to the highest understanding of academic freedom ... A Catholic university seeks truth.'' 
Paradox or not, Malloy and his colleagues feel just the opposite. In their eyes, Notre Dame will continue to advance and seek its own truth, and the Virgin Mary will steadfastly watch over its progress. 
"We've had debates every year I've been here about 'what does it mean to be a Catholic univer­sity?"' Malloy said. "It is a Catholic university in the best sense of the term -not that it's an alien place for non-Catholics, but where the funda­mental mission and identity of the school has been preserved and is fostered and i<> very much at the center of people's consciousness.'' 
Under Malloy's leadership, the University con­structed a building in hi<> name to house the phi­losophy and theology departments. The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies is pio­neering the promotion of peace. 
To define Notre Dame's Catholicism in terms of debates, buildings or dollar allocations alone is not adequate, Malloy said. To him, Notre Dame's identity is woven into the quilt of those who call its campus home. 
"There are always debates. Are we too Catholic or not enough? Is it how many people go to Mass, is it the Center of Social Concerns, is it the required courses in philosophy and theolo­gy?" Malloy said. " ... All I c ing, vibrant community ol 
Academic Reputation 
The steady progressior rankings of the best natic little to Saracino. 
Despite his position as so to speak, of Notre D national ranking is of Saracino. Though slightly highly indicative of the · Notre Dame has bncome by itself. 
"The rankings are not we don't put much stock i "But it's nice to be recogn 
Saracino did say, how was not in the list of the t1 Malloy began his presider 
"We were out of the toI= sistently in it," Saracino S< 
Mendoza College of B Woo believes that Notre prominence can be attr ability to attract faculty c fields. 
"Father Malloy and Na 
. great care to build an o excels in teaching and "Faculty are unquestio1 principal resource." In the end, there are t increasing a university's Woo believes Malloy has two throughout his presid "Our ability to excel in rests upon two critical fa1 fessors with the necessru conduct research and c1 positions for eminent facu Thanks to the recruitrr sors, research at Notre I cantly during Malloy's 1= mates the University r, research funding 10 ye, mates that number at apr "If we want to train lots need to be the best we a we get better and bette1 they are going to be doing Malloy and Hatch both tance of undergraduate n "[Research] is not to tl mitment to undergradu~ more undergraduates pru Malloy said. This emphasis on un1 remains unique to a Uu Catholic identity becaus goals. Dean of the College of believes that projects st World diseases or Father ect show the level of cor students have to making serving to help those w selves. "These projects are di Notre Dame students < humanity," Marino said. here is directed toward iJ life. Call it science for burr Though many alumn: Dame's progression to\l based learning, some offi and Letters Mark Roche; must continue in order remain competitive. "We need competitive " as a Catholic university and the public arena,' understood these principl1 Big Moments For many people, parti~ 11 is the one day in rne out above all others as !iii the day was no di!fenmt. 18 years as president, Se his memory and his heart 'The single most me 9/11 and the Mass on the surrounding it, because only a traumatic oceasion lying by every element o said. The planes struck the York and the Pentagon in on that Tuesday mornin was unexpeeted and sh community joined togeth of strengtl1, holding a. m afternoon. "It wasn'tjust because 
0 , o • • f I • • 
o I I I I 0. t 

., 
Wednesday, April 27, 2005 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 7 
eaves lasting legacy 
say is that it is a liv­oplo or good will." 
· Not.rn I>anw in the .I uniwrsitios mnans 
~ dtinr 'dm1wlnadnr,' w, tlw University's nor importan1~n to nir, !.111• sl.ltll'lllmtt is fm;prnad lmlinr that university in a d<L'>S 
t hig or a d1;al to us. 11~111." Saracino said. I by your pnot'S." 
r. that Notrn l>anw !i uniwrsitins wlwn 
but. now wo'rn •~on­
ness I lnan <:arolyn tm's risn to national ttnd to the school's .htl rrontinrs or tlwir 
11 I latch have l.ltklln 1Jmding litculty that ·1mrrh," Woo said. 1ly thn Univnrsity's 
kny ingrndinnl'i fi1r 
:adnmk status. and 
I'll dnfl.ly mixing tiHl 
:y. 
tching and rnsnarch 
·s: l'lllpow•wing pro­
imn and runding to 
t.ing nndownd dwir 
scholars," Woo said. 
t or SUpl'rior profilS­
Illl iiWI'PIL'illd Sih11lifi­
·idnncy. I latch nsti­
·ivml 2!i million in 
· ago. lin now llsti­
ximatdy 7!i million. 
Catholic lnadors. wn 
bll," llatdt said·: .''t\s· 
u·ulty and st~~dnnl'i, 
on• rnsnarrh. 
tpiUL'iizml tiHl impor­
arch. 
dlllrinumt or a com­
quality -wn nm~d 
.ipating in rosnardt," 
graduatn rns1mrch 
~rsity roundnd on a 
,r its humanitarian 
IH!Cil .Jos11ph Marino 1 as studying Third m Stmit's llaiti proj­titmnnt Nolrn Dame m~ thnir rosnardt is cannot help them­
:t tlxamplns or how 
1 ronr11rnnd about 
lot or tlw rnsoardt roving tho quality of tity." rn fiHtrful of Notre ·ds morn mseardt­Is, likn I>mm of Arl'i .nl that thnsn slridos ,,. thl' Uniwrsity to 
1~arrh to have a voi1~n tlw scholarly world 
1 
~orhn said. "Monk Vf~ry wl'fl." 
I 
iarly in Uw U.S., Snpt. ~ history that stands •hanging. 1:or Malloy, ~~ ovn all otlwr days in II Inn an imprint on 
trahln mom1•nt was tad and all tho 1wnnl'> 1 a s1mso it was not 1ut a tnmumdous ral­~otrl' DamP," Malloy 
win Towers in Nnw '<L'>hinhrton, ll.C. narly md, though tltl' timn ~ing, Malloy said tho land artml IL'> a pillar rtg liturgy in tlw latll 
,'rna Catholic univer" 
sity and had a Mass. It wa'i tho Muslim studnnl'i 
worn thorn, p11ople from other rnligious tradi­
tions wom tlwre, peopln from South Bend were 
th1lrn," Malloy said. "I would say tltat for me, for 
all the things I've done at Notre Dame that 
stands IL'> thn most momorable." 
Sopt. 11 was not tlw first time Malloy had to 
d11al with a crisis at Notro Damn. On Jan. 24, 
1992, trag11dy dinwtly struek the University. Tim 
Notre Dmne women's swim tnam WIL'i rntuming 
to South Bond from a mnot at Northwestorn 
Univnrsity wlwn its bus overturned on tho 
Indiana Toll Hoad latn at night. '1\vo athletes, 
sophomorn Coll1~en llipp, 20, and frnshman 
Mnghan Bnnler, 19, worn killnd in the aeeidnnt. 
Thirty-eight otlwrs wnrn injured. One student, 
llalllY Seott, was tmnporarily paralyznd. 
"Hnlatnd to ISnpt.111 were tlw nvents sur­
rounding tho aecidnnt of the women's swim 
tmun. whmt two wore killnd and onn was seri­
ously hurt," Malloy said. "l wasn't here when 
tltat happennd. I W<L'> in Wa'ihington, D.C., but I 
eame in the next day and that was another 
example of the eommunity's rising together in 
support." 

Tho Notm Dame eommunity gathered togetlt­
er at the Basilica of thn Saered lleart, Malloy 
said, to pray li1r those killed, injurnd or afTectnd 
by thn aeddont. 

"There were many dimensions of that, and once again. Saernd lleart wa'i so packnd there WIL'in't room filr the pnopln and some were out­side, kind of displaying solidarity and support for tltosn who had lost lilil, but also tltose who wern injurod," Malloy said. "And many of tltn pnopln on tl1e bus were thorn fi1r tltn liturgy." 
llowov1lr, Malloy rmnnmbnrs some of tltn more 
positive limns at Notrn Damn -like winning 
national titles. 

''I've had some vnry upboat tltings -winning national championships in football, women's b<L'>ketball, soeeer, f\,lndng. those oeea'iions when you eolobrate that am full of fun and a sense of satisfiution," Malloy said. 
Buildings 

In Malloy's 1 S years as president, 27 new buildings were nreeted and 20 renov~tions of older buildings took plaHe\ 
"I laiSill knnw tltat somn of tlte involvement of 
..various lnvels of the strategic plan that if we worn going to lachiflve our goals] we'd need mom buildings, oither modifying or improving our older buildings or building new ones," Malloy said. 
Nnw buildings include fiJur West Quad dormi­torins, limr Mod Quad dormitories, tl1c DeBartolo Cla'>sroom Building, Malloy flail, the Coleman Mors11 Centnr, tlte Marin P. DeBartolo Center for tho J>erf'orming Arts, Hammes Mowbray Hall, thn Eek Centnr, HoW; Sports Hecreation Center, Fisher Graduatll I lousing and Pa.,querilla Center, mnong otlwrs. In 1997, the Univorsity remodeled th11 f(JOtball stadium, which wa'i originally built in 19:10. 
When Univorsity President-eled Fatlter John Jenkins a'isumns the presidency on July 1, he will also inherit numerous projects be!,run, but not eompleted, during Malloy's torm. These indude tlte Gugliehnino Family Atltletics Center, Jordan flail of Seinnen and Ernestinn Radin and 
O.C. Canniehanl Jr. flail and WM. Keek Cnntnr for Tnmsgone Hnsnareh. 
To Malloy, the addition of new buildings on campus wa'> nneessary due to the increase in f'aeulty by roughly 1 !i pnr year. 
"That's a huge incrnasn in faculty size, and that mnans you nnnd buildings to housn them ­rnsmtrrh labs and library and computing l'llsourcns 1.11 support what wn do," Malloy said. 
Challenges 

WhiJP Malloy is proud of' tlw fiu~t tltat hn W!L'i ahl11 to acmmplish many things sirnultanoously during his tnnurn. his timn as Univorsity prnsi­d.-nt Wll'> not without. il'> sharll of bumps. 
Malloy said ho has snnn turnovers in nvery position sincn hn <L'isunwd ollkn. 
"Th.-n• is nobody in my administration now that W<L'> in it whnn I startnd," Malloy said. "And sonw pnople havn lnf't tho administration by rPtir••nwnt, and some by illlwalth or just natural 1wolution, going bw~k to thn liteulty or whatnver." 
Morn puhlidy, Malloy f'aend tho loss of' two exncutiw vien prnsidnnl'i. 
In 2000, Fatlwr William Bnauchamp was rnmovnd from tlw position afler snrving <L'> the University's No. 3 oflieial f'or 13 years. After nwinws by thn NCAA of Nolrn Dame's athlntic dnpartnwnt, which Bnauchamp oversaw, the University rncnivnd il'i first major pnnalty and sanction in December 1999 af'tor booster Kimbnrly Dunbar wa'i suspmtnd of giving Irish fiJOtball players impropnr gills. Dunbar wa'i said to have nmbozzled more than $1.2 million from her employer. 1\vo scholarships were rnvoked and tim football team wa'i placed on probation lbr two years a msult. Michael Wadsworth, who had served a'> atltletie director for five years, also resignod a'> a result of'the incident. 
In May 2000, Father ·nmothy Seully a<;sumed the role of executive vice president. However, he resignnd in May 20()3 after a reported con­frontation with a WNDU cameraman and rflporter earlier in thn year. Scully resigned befom tho Board of Trustees wa'i scheduled to hear a rnport on his behavior. The South Bond Tribunn then roportnd that Malloy said hn would step aside if Scully did not resign from his posi­tion. 
The executive vke president position then went vacant for a year before the Board of Trustens nlectnd .John Afl1eck-Graves on April 30, 2004. Aflleek-Graves became the first lay­man to hold tim position. 
Malloy nxprnssed plna'iure tltat Affleck-Graves was chosen as the University's executive vice president. Though he i'i not a Holy Cross priest, Malloy is confident that the University will be w•~ll served by his stewardship. 
"I'm plea<>ed that he was chosen, and I tltink he is going to be a tremendous a<>set to Fatlter Jenkins' administration after July 1," Malloy said. "I feel very good about where we are in tlte executive viee presidont ranks, and if there were a few ehallenges earlier than that, I tl1ink we've moved beyond them and we're back to a healtlty position here." 
The struggling eeonomy also aflected Malloy's plans for tlte University. In 2002, tlte Board of Trustees decided to halt many building cam­paigns due to a deerea'ie in the endowment. All University budgel<> were also decreased at this time, though financial aid remained constant and eonsistent witlt rising tuition costs. 
Earlier in his tenure, however, Malloy complet­ed the Generations eampaign, which raised $1.1 billion and opened many doors for the University, in areas like finaneial aid, faculty <md student research, capital campaigns and increased divorsity. 
Malloy said the only regret of his presidency wa'> that he wasn't always able to rise to the occasion when the situation demanded it. However, tltese memorins do not weigh heavily on his shoulders. 
"It's not like I carry a huge burden," Malloy said. ''I'm not haunted by them -I'm just very aware oftlte lhumanl rnality." Balancing goals 
Looking back over his years under the Dome, Malloy observed that those in leadership posts such a'i his own often garner excessive praise a'i well a'> exeessive criticism. 
"In these high positions, you get more credit than you deserve and more blame than you deserve," Malloy said. 
If there is something he does deserve credit for, Malloy said, it is his balaneing of multiple goals-tl1e University's and his own. 
''I'm proudest tltat we were able to do many things simultaneously," he said. ".. .I had many goals, and the thing I'm most ploased about is that if you take any of those as an example, l think we've made real progress in each of tltem." 
Contact Kate Antonacci and Mary Kate Malone at kantonac@nd.edu and mmalone3@nd.edu 

' ' .... ' .. 

• •. I I • • • ' ' I ' 
Wednesday, April 27, 2005 

page 8 The Observer + IN FOCUS 
Jenkins replacing Malloy not the only change 
New leadership from Main Building to Joyce Center reshaping University 
I and :::'!l1w~i)bs;:;;: Left, University President Father Edward Malloy talks at the press conference introducing Charlie Weis as Notre Dame's football coach. Top right, John Affleck-Graves addresses the press conference announcing him as the new executive vice president. Bottom right, Provost Nathan Hatch, who is leaving for Wake Forest in July, sits at a panel with Malloy. 
executive vice president position my advice," Jenkins said. "If it's level were Malloy's comments behind the Ten Year Plan, he 
By MATT LOZAR 

also provided hints of change. his decision, he makes it; if it's made eight days later at the won't be in a position of power to 
Senior Staff Writer 

When University President mine, I make it. I think it's mainly Sports Business Journal's implement it. It would have been 
Emeritus Father Theodore communication if it has something Intercollegiate Athletics Forum easy for Malloy to just push off the 
The changes in the Main Hesburgh and Malloy were elect­to do with after July 1." when Malloy said the only two report onto Jenkins or another Building started before the sur­ed as president, an executive vice One example of that is the days he was "embarrassed" to be top administrator, but he didn't. prise announcement occurred president was named along with University's budget because it Notre Dame's president were "I could have demurred and early on that Friday morning 362 each. deals with both short-term and Tuesday and Wednesday of the said, since I won't be here to days ago. ''I'm not seeking to say on, long-term issues affecting Notre week Willingham was fired. implement it, but everybody said, 
They haven't stopped since. because I think that should be the Dame. For that reason, both For the first time since the no, you should be the one to fol­
From former Executive Vice decision of the Board -but I will Malloy and Jenkins had their announcement of Jenkins to low through and so I did, and in President Father Timothy Scully do whatever the Board wants in hands involved. replace Malloy, the two were seen that sense I was happy to try to resigning from his position May 2, terms of what the future has in "I was involved in preparing in the public eye as being on formulate what the Ten Year Plan 2003 to Provost Nathan Hatch store," Malloy told The Observer that and approving it, but Father opposite sides of an important would look like," Malloy said. accepting the president position at in April. Jenkins was deeply involved in issue. It was assumed Malloy and Something equally important Wake Forest University on Jan. The Board announced on April the process too," Malloy said. "It Jenkins were at odds with each looms over Jenkins' head alone, 
21. the changes both in the Main 30, 2004 that not only would just depends on what the nature other, but the pair said it essen­and that's the selection of the next Building and in other key places Malloy not return, but also that of the activity is, but I would say I tially was a difference in philoso­provost. When Hatch decided to on campus have been numerous Jenkins would replace him and think the transition's gone phy. move on to Wake Forest, Jenkins' as Notre Dame transitions from fellow associate provost John smoothly." "It never was about my rela­plans felt a big change, a.•;; he now University President Father Affieck-Graves would be Jenkins' The Willingham firing tionship with Father Jenkins, it has to replace the University's No. Edward Malloy to University executive vice president. All three The one decision that showed was just an unfortunate set of 2 official. Hatch takes over in President-elect Father John associate provosts had then the split in philosophies between things that happened," Malloy Winston Salem, N.C. July 1-the Jenkins. accepted new positions in a four­Malloy and Jenkins was the firing said. "The University when that same day Jenkins takes over for All of the changes month span. of football coach Tyrone decision happened took a lot of Malloy. 
The leadership changes began More changes included Hilary Willingham after three seasons. negative hits before I even said In an article published in The when Scully resigned from the Crnkovich being elected at the Since Ara Parseghian took over as anything but that was kind of Observer Feb. 23 Jenkins said he University's third-ranking position February 2005 Board of Trustees the school's coach prior to the known that that would happen didn't expect to be searching for a on the same day a report was meeting as the vice president for 1964 season, no Notre Dame foot­and it was involved in the deci­replacement for Hatch at this going to be delivered to the Board public affairs and communication, ball coach had received fewer sion. time, but recognized the vacancy's of Trustees by a four-person com­replacing Roberto Gutierrez, and than five years to lead the Irish. "But I think we've moved on, importance. mittee formed to investigate Hatch's announcement of his Also, Willingham was the first and when you're in a time of tran­"This must be my highest prior­Scully's behavior. The report was move to Wake Forest. black head coach in any sport at sition, sometimes you have a flap ity right now," Jenkins said in the to include a Jan. 16, 2003 con­DecislorHnaklng Notre Dame, and allegations that or two, that was a flap, other than article, "and [it] certainly will be frontation with two local television The leadership changes at the race played a factor in the that I think we've gone smoothly." my first priority until we find an reporters and a cameraman. University have become topics of University's decision helped spark Jenkins compared the disagree­excellent provost." 
The University initially didn't conversation thanks to interested a national media firestorm. ment over the Willingham firing Treading the line that is current announce any plan for replacing observers wondering who is mak­To explain the decision, Jenkins to any other long-term decision president of the University while Scully. Eventually Malloy took ing the decisions -Malloy, said in his Dec. 15 statement to that needs to be made by the also knowing in just a few months over the responsibilities of the Jenkins or some combination. the Faculty Board on Athletics president of the University. he won't have any power, Malloy executive vice president. Those three options are exactly that he called the meeting on the "There was a football issue and still oversees a University under­
The provost's office became the right. All three methods have Monday after Notre Dame loss to it was controversial. But football going a lot of change but has to next to experience changes, with been used during the transition Southern California. The state­is like anything else in a certain fade into the background as his the four top officials in the office period that started in May 2004 ment continued to say Malloy did­way, it just happens to be very days remaining dwindle. moving on to new positions during and continues until July 1. n't favor making a change, but he public," Jenkins said. "I need to And Jenkins moves a step closer a 13-month period. When it comes to the "day-to­expressed a willingness to have be informed because we're in the to that fourth-floor office in the 
In December 2003, associate day operations" as Jenkins classi­the discussion. transition period, Monk needs to Main Building each day. provost Carol Mooney was select­fied them, Malloy still has the A discussion occurred that make decisions that are applied to It's something that, despite the ed to be the president at Saint decision-making power. Malloy afternoon with Malloy, Jenkins, the current situation, and I need many changes around the Mary's. said one of those decisions is mak­Affieck-Graves, Hatch and Notre to be involved. It's not different for University, seems to be going well, 
The October 2003 and February ing the last promotions and Dame athletic director Kevin that than it is for student affairs, Jenkins said. 2004 Board of Trustees meetings approvals for academic promo­White. Board of Trustees chair­or the academic life or business "I think the most important came and went with no tion, just like Hesburgh did before man Patrick McCartan and Philip operations or food services. thing is he's let me do what I need announcement to fill the executive Malloy took over July 1, 1987. Purcell, Chair of the Athletic "You have to know whose deci­to do and he's supported me," vice president position. A choice like filling the position Affairs Committee of the Board of sion it is, you have to communi­Jenkins said. "I think that's all he 
Then in an article published in of executive assistant to the presi­Trustees were also included. cate and cooperate." can do because the difficulty in his the April 23, 2004 edition of The dent with Father Jim McDonald is Jenkins' statement continued to The long term position is that if he tries to be too Observer, Malloy said he was leav­left to Jenkins. say Malloy opposed a change of Inevitably, decisions have to be helpful, then people will look to ing a decision on whether he However, when it comes down head coach, but deferred to the, made about the long-term future him and I think he's been good would return for another term as to decisions that will affect more recommendation to the group of Notre Dame -not just some­about receding a bit, but beingNotre Dame's president up to the than day-to-day decisions, it because Malloy wouldn't be the thing affecting the University in supportive. Board. Malloy also stated in the comes down to communication University's president for the 2005 the months after Jenkins takes "I think that's all he can do real­article he expected an executive between Malloy and Jenkins. season. After sleeping on it over, but years down the road, ly, and I think he's done that well." 
vice president to be named at the "[Malloy] has been very good -overnight, the decision was made like "Notre Dame 2010: Fulfilling spring trustees meeting. if there's anything long-term, he on Tuesday to fire Willingham. the Promise." Contact Matt Lozar at The continued vacancy of the has let me know and he's asked What took the issue to another While Malloy was the author mlozar@nd.edu 
-------.------,-----,,~---------------­
------------------------------------------------~~----------~------------------------------------------~---­
Wednesday, April 27, 2005 
"/think he is turning over a very strong University to his successor -a strong llniversity intellectually, spiritually and historically." 
Father Theodore Hesburgh University President Emeritus 
The Observer + IN FOCUS 

"The job is hard to describe because every day is different, and has been different, and I feel like only ifyou get in it do you really appreciate it." 
Father Edward Malloy University President 
page 9 

"You have to know what you want to accomplish, and what's important to you. and what's important to the institution. I think you have to understand that, and not only~n the surface level, but on a deep level. " 
Father John Jenkins University President-elect 
Jenkins, Hesburgh praise Malloy's 'steady hand' 
President remembered fondly for dedication to Notre Dame, Holy Cross communities 

By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
In Focus Wri1er 
University l'residont-nlo1~t Father .John .fpnkins nwt University l'rnsidont Father l·:dward Malloy 2.7 yoars ago wlwn lw was a snminarian at Notre llame and Malloy was a thoology pro­rPssor, and his thoughts on Malloy IHtVPn't <·hanged much sinco th1m. 
"lie was a thoughtrul man," Jonkins said or Malloy. "lin was a thnology pro­r~~ssor lwre at tlw timn -a highly­ri~SJWCled pnrson, a pnrson or judg­mont, a dmlicated prinst -thoso wnro my impressions thnn. and thosn aro my impn~ssions now." 
As Malloy's 1H-yoar term as president comos to an nnd. Jnnkins said he can tako much away rrom his prndocossor's tl~rm. llownvor. tho ono thing that con­stantly eomos to mind is Malloy's relia­bility. 
"As a lnadnr. it's important to bn stnady," Jenkins said. "Pnople look to you to sol a eoursn, and Monk's bonn vnry stmtdy." 
.Jnnkins also praisod Malloy ror tho way lw sot tlw torw for others at Notro Damn. 
"As a leador. it's important that you sot tho tonn ror integrity, and I think hn's donn that," Jonkins said or his prndneessor. 
Tho presidont-eloet said one of" tho things about Malloy he is most grateful for is the l'aet that the president let oth­nrs do their jobs, and in turn, allownd him and othnrs to lnarn and bo sueeoss­l'ul. 
"I think lw has ability to lot other pooplo around him do thoir jobs well, becaus<~ thorn's a tnmptation that you havo to bn tho contnr ol' attention at all time il' you'rn in charge. and that's a disaster as a loader. and lw doesn't do that." Jenkins said. "llo hires good peo­ple. and ho lots thnm nourish. ho lots thmn do thHir job. I think those things are very important." 
Jnnkins said anothor one of Malloy's strengths was the raet that he main­
presidnnt emeritus. and as a rnsult. Jnnkins rniteratnd Malloy's commitment to Notrn Damn as onn of tho prnsident's strengths as tlw University's leader. 
"To hn steady. to be committnd to tlw University. to be dedicated as a priest, to exhibit good moral intngrity in all you do, to be faithful to thn lloly Cross community as he has bonn. I think those are the main things," .Jenkins said. 
And the ineoming presidPnt was not the only one to recognize Malloy's 
steadiness through 
the years. University 
tained his ties to the President Emeritus
"/think he's said to be

lloly Cross communi­Father Theodore 
ty at Notre Dame. your own person and to do llesburgh said Malloy 
Malloy, a lloly Cross it the way you want to do will leave a legacy of priest. never strayed eonsistoney.
it. I think that's part of

far l'rom those val­"I thin k IHl Ieft a
what he does -he lets

ues, said Jenkins. steady hand on the "lin's deeply com­people flourish. " tillor of 1H years, and mitted to Notre that's a long time ­Dame, to lloly Cross, probably three or
Father John Jenkins 

to being a good four times longp,r
University President-elect 

priest," Jp,nkins said than most presi­
of Malloy. "lie gath­ers good people around himself. and it's very dear that he's a Italy Cross priest. There's never any doubt about that eentral identity. I think in his decisions and how he approaches things, that's evident." 
Before beeoming president of Notre Dame, Malloy was an undergraduate, then a professor, then a vice president and associate provost of the University. lie plans to stay at Notre Dame as a 
dents," Ilesburgh 
said. ''I'm sure Father Jenkins will find a lot of strengths he is inhflriting from Father Malloy." 
Jenkins agreed with Hesburgh, saying one of the best things about his prede­cessor was how no matter what, he stayed the course. 
"He's a steady person," Jenkins said. '"fhings ehange and controversies come and go. but you just have to be steady." 
The new president said Malloy has 
given him advice on what to do during his term. which bngins July I. 
"I think lw's said to lw your own per­son and to do it thn way you want to do it," Jenkins said. "I think that's part of what he dons -he ~~~ts JHHlple !lourish. I lin said I to hn dedieatPd to tho lloly Cross community." 
Malloy has succendPd in that task. .Jenkins said. by staying humble and trun to his roots in thn congregation. 
"It's funny becausn Monk was th1~ president, and I will be tlw presidnnt of Notre Damn." .Jnnkins said. "hut you'n• one among othors in tho lloly Cross community, and it's important to bn part of that, havo dinn1~r with peoplP. not to feel like you're more important than pnople, and I think Monk's done that wnll." 
Now that it is almost time for .Jenkins to take the helm ol' the University, lw chiefly credits Malloy with one thing ­allowing him to dnvnlop dul"ing tho transition period before he ofl'ieially tak!lS over as president. 
"I think the most impol"tant thing is he's let me do what I nend to do and he's supported me," .lnnkins said. "I think that's all hn can do bneause thn difTieulty in his position is that if hn tries to bn too helpful. then people will look to him, and I think hn's boon good about receding a bit, but being support­ive. I think that's all he can do. mally, and I think he's dono that well." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
"It has been wonderful working with Father Malloy. lie is a quiet leader who leads by example." 
Dan Saracino Director of Admissions 
"The University. under Father Malloy. 
"He has sustained an administration to get Provost Nathan /latch and the deans ofthethings done. He has a style ofhiring respective colleges, has taken great care tostrong people and giving them the freedom build an outstanding faculty that excels in to carry out his core vision." 
teaching and research. " 
Nathan Hatch Carolyn Woo Provost Mendoza College of Business Dean 

. " 

• 1 ... • t • r,. "• .. • r f ,, • 1 
... .& • 
1 1'•· , ,f ' I l t1 f 1 t I I ',I 


r 
page 10 Wednesday, April27, 2005 
The Observer + IN FOCUS 
Outgoing president eager to shift gears after July 1 
Despite celebrity status, Malloy seeks to step out of limelight while still retaining ties to the University 
will remain intact even will be on sabbatical after
By KATIE PERRY 
though the outgoing presi­officially surrendering his 
In Focus Wrirer 
dent will no longer be at the position in July. forefront of University affairs. "I will try to do full justice 
A rull professor in the the­"I've been in China and of the notion of the sabbati­ology department and mem­Notre Dame people stop me cal, whieh is llikel the ber or the raeulty since 1974, and come up," Malloy said. Sabbath, the day of rest in University President Father "Or in Japan, or all over the sense that it's a change of Edward Malloy has grown Europp, or the Holy Land, or pace from what my life has quito accustomed to playing Latin America -could be been like for the last X num­the role or teacher during his anywhere. Could be on the ber of years," Malloy said. tenure at Notre Dame. subway in New York, eould be However, while Malloy's 
But when he steps down on the Metro in Washington, schedule will be significantly from his post this July, Malloy could be at some restaurant, less demanding after July 1, will make a conseientious and people come up." Hesburgh noted the life of a transition from instructor to Although Malloy is president emeritus is not student. renowned among members of marked solely by leisure. 
"The best explanation of the worldwide Notre Dame "[It is) a sigh of relief that what I want to do with the family, he plans to eontinue the 18-hour days will no rest of my life, other than be living in the one place he is longer be there, but I must a good priest and somebody most recognized -his Sorin say that I'm turning 88 next who's available to engage in Hall residence. month and I'm still pretty these apostolic sorts of "In the summer, sometimes busy," Hesburgh said. works, is to learn as much as [the tour guides] will go by Busy is a state to which I can for as long as I can and say, 'Oh the president of Malloy is relatively accus­about as many things as I Notre Dame lives in there, in tomed. For nearly 20 years can," Malloy said. Sorin Hall,' and I'll be sitting he has sat at the top of the , problem and international end of the semester. 
For the man who believes in in my room with shorts on or University, prolifically seek­debt], the rest of it seems to While residing on campus, the "inherent worth for a something, and I'll wave and ing to improve upon nearly be making as much of a con­Malloy said he will focus on a person to be a they'll go 'oh' every facet of Notre Dame. tribution as I can to Notre more "personal" agenda and 
lifelong learner," !embarrassed Among his most noteworthy Dame and outside of Notre maintain involvement with this means gar­gesture]," Malloy accomplishments were the Dame and just doing these not-for-profit boards external
"Will I smell the 
nering knowl­said. successful completion of the things that I enjoy and appre­to Notre Dame. In addition to
flowers? Will I do
edge both tradi­Like University Generations campaign -ciate and are full of meaning his status as University pro­tionally through things that I President which earned $1.1 billion -in and of themselves," Malloy fessor, Malloy said he has literature as well Emeritus Father and the enhancement of stu­said. already turned down a num­
haven't had time 
as through cul­Theodore dent diversity. Additionally, Malloy's list of accomplish­ber of job offers -including
to do? Yes."
tural experience. Hesburgh, who Malloy shifted academic focus ments separate from at the a CEO position that i)e Malloy said resides on the to stress the importance of University is almost as rep­deemed incompatible with his although he Father Edward Malloy 13th floor of the r e s e a r c h , utable as his advancements priestly duties -in order to would be compla­library that increased finan-directly influenc­honor the obvious nature of a
University President 
cent spending the shares his name, cial aid and ing life at Notre sabbatical. rest of his life Malloy's contin­improved the 7I want] to learn Dame. From "Will I keep regular office with his nose ued presence on academic profile serving on the hours? Probably not. Will I
as much as I can 
deeply buried in a book, he is campus will be felt even of University boards of such exercise serendipity?
for as long as I can
too much of an "activist" to though he will no longer students. prominent uni­Probably yes," Malloy said. shun opportunities in active serve as University president. But upon res­about as many versities as "Will I smell the flowers? Will "One of the odd things ignation the Vanderbilt and I do things that I haven't had
learning. things as I can." 
"My goal is to be a learner about Notre Dame is that on president, much Portland, to time to do? Yes." in the formal way of reading this campus if I walk around, like his storied chairing several An advocate of liberal edu­and exposure to good cre­or in this community, I can predecessor, will Father Edward Malloy e d u c a t i o n a I cation, Malloy would like to ative arts, land] also the way presume that people know voluntarily and University President o r g a n i z a t i o n s be more of a recipient and to have a range of experi­who I am," Malloy said. contentedly step like the participant by placing ences, maybe see some other "They may not say anything out of the lime-American Council emphasis on the expansion of parts of the world," Malloy ... but generally that's true, light and into the back­on Education (ACE) and the his own intellectual horizons. said. because I've been at the job a ground. Association of Governing "Whether there's some 
Malloy said he plans to long time, and Father "Father Hesburgh provides Boards of Universities and pragmatic, concrete thing work on three books next Hesburgh's the same way." a wonderful model for a pres­Colleges (AGB), Malloy has that Imy continued learning] year, and additionally "do Malloy might take pleasure ident emeritus,'' Malloy said. demonstrated a history of leads to or not,'' the president some travel" both interna­in the recognition that "He has his own things that extending his talents beyond said, "for me that's exciting." tionally and domestically. If accompanies his celebrity, he likes to be involved with, his main building office -a the past is any indication, but Notre Dame's 16th presi­he is available to the record he seeks to continue Contact Katie Perry at Malloy's visible personality dent is wholly cognizant he University to pinch-hit and go after stepping down at the kperryS@nd.edu 
~----~------------------~
to funerals and other kinds of things, to welcome groups when somebody's not around, but always in a subordinate role, and that's what my intention is." 
In choosing to emulate Hesburgh regarding his upcoming resignation, Malloy has stayed true to promises made when he first announced he would be step­ping down last April. Malloy recalled Hesburgh's pledge to leave the University in "good shape,'' but promptly move from center stage to the wings. 
''I'm not retiring, just shift­ing focus,'' Malloy said in the April 30· press hmference. "I have no intention of going anyplace els~. Father Hesburgh provides a great mocter-he g_oi: away, he came back, h~::·s done great things." · 
This. balance of both involvement and detachment requires a distant yet perva­sive participation in the over­all well-being of the University and the world at large, in addition to dabbling in matters of personal inter­est to the outgoing president. 
CLAIRE "Separate from [opportuni­ties to serve on committees This room in DeBartolo Hall will be University President Father for ~o,cial issuf1s li,ke the AIDS Edwar~ !Vlalloy's l)ew office starting this summer. 


University President Father Edward Malloy poses in his office on the fourth flopr ott_h~ M.ain Building. 
' ' ' I •' 
•• J ••• 

Wednesday, April 27, 2005 
The Observer + IN FOCUS page II 
Jenkins, family members reflect on rise to presidency 

By MADDIE HANNA 
In Focus Writer 
Thnn~'s morn to Fathnr .John Jenkins than his whitn prinst eollar, his pownrful adminis­trativn position or nvcm his ruturn role as the 17th prnsidnnt of' Notrn Dame. Thn man who will takn tlw lwlm from outgoing University Prnsidcmt Fatlwr Edward Malloy .July 1 has a rid1 past that will undoubtedly impart his lnadership styln. 
(hw or 12 c~hildrnn, Jenkins grew up in Omaha, Nnb. in a housf' hn dnscribns as "loL<; of l'un" but "sonwwlmt chaotic." 
"I thought it was a hrreat. plac~e to grow up in," .Jnnkins said. ''I'm very close to my hrothnrs and sistnrs." 
Bning tlw third eldest of' six boys and six J.,rirls, .lnnkins ol'tcm fi>Lmd himself prnsentnd with a largc~r bulk of the duties than the otlwr ehildmn. 
"That's what helps you, because you're lim~nd to take earP of' the young kids -you just have to, thnrn's no choiee," he said. "And you gnl a sense of bning rnsponsible for somnorw other than yoursnll', and I apprm~iatnd that. My oldc!St sL<;ter clid most of that work, more than mn, but everyone pitdwd in alittln bit." 
Orw could say .lnnkins blazed his own trail. llis litther and grandl'ather both went to Cmighton .Jnsuit Univnrsity in Omaha, but .lcmkins f(,llownd his older brothnr to Notn~ Ilame in 1972. 
"Omaha's a wry Catholic town and a lot of' pnoplc~ go to Notrn Damn," Jenkins said. "My oldnr brotlwr IToml had gorw here, hn's in thn c:hL<;s of '74. So it was natural to think about it. and Ill just made the right rhoic:n and got hern." 
Although his father wa<; a g<L<;trocmtnrolo­J.,rist who, along with his grandfathnr, served on llw l'aeulty of Crnighton .Jesuit Univnrsity's mndiral school, .Jenkins steered dnar or a carnnr in medkinn. 
"My parents, I would say one of' their hrrnatnst virtues was they l1~t all tim kids do whatnvN interestnd thmn, exeited them, drnw t.hnm, and thny wnro always support­ive, rngardless of what it was," Jenkins said. "And so I think if I wanted to go into medi­cine, they would have supported that, but they let me do what I wantnd to do and sup­ported me in that." 
Instead, Jenkins became interested in philosophy during his years at Notre Dame, obtaining bachelor's and master's of arts dnf..,rrnns in 1976 and 1978, at whieh time he began to consider a future in the priest­hood. 
"At that time, the question was what would I die fi>r-what's important enough lbr me to din fc>r." Jenkins said. "And I think that lnd me to think about the priesthood and to think about my faith mom deeply." 
lie entered the seminary in 1978 and began a live-year period of "dispernment," which solidified his desire to become a priest. 
"I do think my ordination in 1983 was important," Jenkins said. "It is what I am most fundamentally, is a priest and all that means. So that was an extremely important part of my lith." 
Jenkins joined the Notre Dame faeulty in 1990 and taught medieval studies and phi­losophy c~lasscs. a job that quickly become a personal passion. 
"Teaching is the hcmrt of Notre Dame ­it's the center of what we should be doing, Jenkins said. "And I love to do it-I love to teach. It hnlps me to appreciate what is at tim eentnr, instructing students, trying to lind the truth, engaging minds. So it's just a reminder of what the central mission of Notre Damn is." 
While he will be f{>cusing on his new role next year, Jenkins said he plans to rnsume tnaehing in the near futtrre. 
Family memories 

llelcm Jenkins described her son John as a quiet but happy child, who she always knew was "special." 
"I always think of him as smiling yet deeply thinking," she said. "What I like best about John _is ~~>w he looks people in the eyes and smiles. 
Clare Kizer, Jenkins' niece and a Notre Dame sophomore, also describnd her uncle as being a deep thinker. 
"John is the best person to turn to for advice," Kizer said. "lie is good at weighing pros and cons and just really thinking things through." 
This ability to make good deeisions was apparent to Kizer when she turned to her uncle and asknd whether or not she should study abroad. 
"Everyone in my immediate family, my parents and siblings, had biased advice," Kizer said. "IJenkinsl took me out to dinner and just listnned, talked things through, and then instilled confidence in me that I had made the right decision. I was so grateful that he took,Ume out of his busy schedule to support me. 
While Jenkins was an average student in hrrade school-where "they didn't give him credit for being smart," Helen Jenkins said -he excelled once he began high school at Omaha's Cmighton Prep. 
"He liked it so well and got first honors from practically the beginning," she said, recalling how her son was also one of the best swimmers and soccer players in the school. 
The young Jenkins was also well-liked, Helen Jenkins said, noting how he was cho­sen as prom king his senior year. But he was also "independent and driven," always finding jobs during brnaks (rom school. 
"During Christmas vacations. he worked in the stockyard to make extra money," Helen Jenkins said. "We had a large family." 
Although she didn't predict her son would become the University's president, Helen Jenkins said she convinced John to attend Notre Dame, where his older brother Tom had gone, instead of St. Louis University. 
"He just wanted to get away and think," Helen Jenkins said. "I think his family was too noisy." 
When her son told her of his plans to become a priest, Helen Jenkins said she felt "so happy." 
"But I wasn't surprised," she said. "He was very spiritual in his own way." 
Although those who see Jenkins walking around campus are probably struck by his 
serene, prinstly demnanor, Kiznr attnsL<; to "her undo's "goofy" sensn of hwnor. 
"lie's one of the most thoughtful and ear­ing people that I know, but also one of tlw goofiest," Kizer said. "That's onn thing peo­ple don't know about him -hn's really funny." 
She meallnd how during a fiunily vacation last summer Jenkins became intensn during a spiritnd game of Catchphrase . 
"lie was cracking up-he n~ally got into the game," Kiznr said. "lin was very com­petitive with the younger cousins, and it was very cute. lie loves family timc~." 
It is this John Jenkins, the goofy and ear­ing uncle, that Kizer visits weekly -not Father John .Jenkins, the new face of Notrn Dame. 
"Multiple pnople havn asknd mn if it is weird, or intimidating, now that .John is president-elect," Kizc~r said. "Funny thing is, I don't think of him as the pmsident-eind -he is the same friendly, funny .John I know. I know that he will bn prc~sident and I think it is amazing -thny eouldn't havn pieknd out a more thoughtful candidatc~ ­but he hasn't. changed from being my undn." 
Similarly, for I Jelen Jenkins, it is her third child .John -the one who was "so spedal" -that mmains frnsh in hnr mind. 
"I think he nnver expectnd to exenl," slw said, "I guess God just had a plan fhr him." 
And this plan now indudes assuming tho presidency at Notre Damn, a place whern Jenkins said he grnatly dmrislws his time he spent. 
"My time at Notrn Dame was vnry impor­tant," he said. "I think friendships fi>rmnd there, the intdlectual lifn, which I found very exciting, the spiritual life, all thosn things had a steady inlluence on my life." 
llnlen Jfmkins L<; well awarn of hnr son's passion lor the University. 
"We've been blessed," she said. "And hn's bnen blessed becausn he loves Notrn Dame." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna I @nd.edu 
'Smart,' 'decent' individuals join new administration 
and public all'airs firm Burson­reflect those in their lives. In However, it is not her first job at Designkitchen, an award-win­By HEATHER Marsteller, who was elected vice every case, I've been very fortu­her alma mater. In 1992, she ning print and Web site designVAN HOEGARDEN president for public affairs and nate." worked for the Alumni firm -to Notre Dame. She 
In focus Wrirer 
communications by the Board of McDonald, who is fluent in Association. and in 1996, she replaces J. Hoberto Gutierrez in 
Trustees in February at the win­Spanish and French, returns to was the first coordinator of the this position. 
Univnrsity President-elect ter meeting. Notre Dame after graduating athletic department's Life Skills "We have to communicate with Father John Jnnkins knows that Jenkins said he chose these from the University in 1979, and Program, directing academic, so many groups, externally with hn needs good people around people to 
working as 
personal and 
the public, internally with him to be successful as the presi­work with the associate career sup­groups," Jenkins said. "There dent of Notrn Dame, and he has because each dean for the port for Irish are so many groups to think hired three who he thinks will lit three crite­Notre Dame student-ath­about. She's going to bn great." hnlp him to achievn his goals. ria-compe­law school. letes. Jenkins said he is looking fiJr­
Fatlwr .Jim Md)onald, former­tence, work "He's fluent "She's going ward to working with his nnw ly thn rector of Saint George's ethic and in several lan­to help me staff, who he thinks will be very 
.....

Collnge in Santiago, Chile, was moral fiber. guages and with the beneficial to his presidency. appointed executive assistant to "They have will be very whole area of "They're going to make me thn prnsident in a January to be able to Crnkovich helpful in McDonald athletics as Shavers look really smart," Jenkins said. announcemnnt: .Joining do their jobs international well as many "If you're in the authority posi­McDonald as an executive assis­well, they have to work hard," issues, Jenkins said of areas," Jenkins said. tion, the people around you real­tant is Franens Shavers, who Jenkins said. "You have to have McDonald. "He's highly organ­Crnkovich, a University of ly help you do what you do.­currnntly works at the University dedicated people who are willing ized, and there's such a flurry of Michigan graduate, started her you can't do it all, but you get of Southern California as the to work hard to get the job done details that come in and I can't duties March 2. The viee presi­the credit, undeserved. It's eriti­manager of the Community and put in long hours. They have handle them all, and he's great dent for public affairs and com­cal to have good people around Education Academy. to be decent people. They have at taking up that task." munications brings 20 years of you." 
Those two are joined by I Iilary to be people of character, people Shavers, a 1990 graduate of experience in marketing -Crnkovich, an exneutive in the you can trust and understand Notre Dame, returns to the including experience as a part­Contact Heather Van Hoegarden Chkago office of public -relations the ideals of N()tre Dam~ and University after working at USC. ner in Chicago-based at hvarth'oeg@nd.edu· • 
'• I ' ' ' 
. '' ... 

' ' 
page 12 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday, April 27, 2005 
Congregation's Catholic m_ission and identity link presidents 
Despite different styles, leaders share goal ofmaintaining traditions and the 'heart' ofthe University 

By MEGHANNE DOWNES Senior Staff Writer  Edward Malloy realize the important of the Holy Cross tra­dition at Notre Dame.  own personal views of what this means," Hesburgh said, "but they are brought together mainly  state the University President must be a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross.  and hopefully come back here some of them and continue a tra­dition that goes back a long  
Since being named University  in the history of the University  Unofficially, the relationship ean  time," llesburgh said.  
President-elect in April, Jenkins  and its developments in recent  be seen in the presence of Holy  While both Malloy and Jenkins  
As the Malloy era draws to a  remained steadfast to upholding  years, and I expect that to con­ Cross priosts on campus and in  acknowledged the recent change  
dose and the eve of the Jenkins  Notre Dame's Catholic identity,  tinue."  the buildings known simply to  in leadership balance between  
era approaches, there is one  mirroring Malloy's priorities for  Jenkins believes that there  students as Zahm, Nieuwland,  the lloly Cross priests and mem­ 
thing that will remain constant  Notre Dame. This follows an  does not necessarily have to be  Corby, Sorin or Hesburgh - bers of the laity, they did not  
-the Congregation of Holy  example set by Malloy's prede­ complete continuity between  named after Holy Cross priests  believe the University's funda­ 
Cross's presence.  cessor, as he adopted one of  presidencies, but that there  who not only physically built the  mental mission would be over­ 
In the foreground of the most  University President Emeritus  should be a commitment toward  University but shaped its under­ shadowed. Malloy said he would  
recent transition lies two Holy  Father Theodore I-Iesburgh 's  the values.  lying spirit.  like to see more Holy Cross  
Cross priests with different per­ main priorities. Malloy empha­ "The thing about a new person  Notre Dame's Catholic and  priests holding leadership posi­ 
sonalities who publicly disagreed  sized through- is  there's  the  Holy Cross identity continues to  tions at Notre Dame, but added  
over a significant University deci­ out his tenure  new approach,  remain strong despite the small­ that the distinctiveness of Notre  
sion. But in the background they  the necessity to  and a new way  er role of the Congregation and  Dame is reinforced by the profes­ 
share common ideals and are bounded by their congregation. Many University administrators  focus on main­taining Notre Dame's mission  "If I felt that we had lost our sense of  of doing things, and that's a good thing in  the growing presence of the laity in the classrooms and Main Building offices. Though the  sors and administrators who actively encourage Catholic val­ues and identity.  
...  comment that it's not the individ­ual that defines a particular office, but the Holy Cross values and Notre Dame mission that  and identity as a Catholic uni­versity. "Now I have  mission and identity as a Catholic university and succeeded in all the  any organiza­tion," Jenkins said. "What you want is the con­ University may not have as many Holy Cross priests serving as pro­fessors or administrators today in comparison to previous eras,  Jenkins believes the lloly Cross priests are necessary to reinforce tradition and "leaven the dough." However, he sees the laity as a  
dictate its purpose and goal. Notre Dame presidents are linked by their Holy Cross identi­ said this, and I totally believe this, if I felt that  rest, I would feel like a failure."  tinuity of the most important values of the  the Congregation's purpose and mission remains intertwined with Notre Dame.  strength because they enrich the community and are guided by the Notre Dame mission.  
ty, ensuring continuity despite  we had lost our  University and  "There are certain aspects of  "It  isn't  about  numbers,"  
varying personalities or visions.  sense of mission  Father Edward Malloy  the most valu­ how [the Congregation of Holy  Jenkins said. "This place could  
This combined with its Catholic values forms the core of Notre  and identity as a Catholic uni­ University President  able traditions. I hope there is  Cross] approached education that still exist at Notre Dame  be loaded with Holy Cross priests and it wouldn't help us if we did­ 
Dame.  versity and suc­ not  complete  since the community made a  n't bring a kind of animating  
"I think those sort of ideals ani­ ceeded  in  all  continuity;  I  pretty serious commitment to  spirit."  
mate this place in ways that are  the rest, I would feel like a fail­ hope we can pick up things to  intellectual life, and a real com­ Even in its early years, mem­ 
difficult to articulate, to put into  ure," Malloy said. "So the neces­ move us forward a bit, but I hope  mitment  to  being  a  deeply  bers of the Congregation of Holy  
- words, but nevertheless are present in how we do things and present in how we live,"  sary quality in the midst of all that, is that we preserve our fun­damental distinctiveness as a  we don't lose the hflart." The heart, or mission, dates back to the University's founding  Catholic university in the richest sense of that word," Jenkins said.  Cross did not solely compose the University's administration. Notre Dame looked to its leader  
University President-elect Father  Catholic university."  when Father Edward Sorin came  I lesburgh strongly believes the  for direction and from him the  
John Jenkins said.  Hesburgh, Malloy and Jenkins  to Northern Indiana with a land  spiritual force of Notre Dame has  values continued to resonate.  
In its 162-year history, the  -the recent past, present and  grant  purchased  by  Father  always been drawn from the  The link that connects each pres­ 
University has witnessed 16  future of Notre Dame - advo­ Stephen Badin and a vision to  Congregation. This force, cou­ ident  also  reinforces  the  
presidential transitions, a chang­ cate the need for the University  create a great Catholic university.  pled  with  the  relationship  University's identity.  
ing balance between the clergy and laity within the University and an ever-evolving relationship between the University and the  to remain faithful to its core, but caution leaders from trying to duplicate their predecessors. "Well, I don't think continuity is  Holy Cross priests ran the University and infused their Catholic ideals and mission into the education curriculum to cre­ between the University and the Congregation, provides stability and life to Notre Dame. "I think the CSCs are in a very  From the presidents in the foreground to its history in the background. the Holy Cross core of Notre Dame -the link  
Congregation. Yet the Holy Cross  as important, except in the idea  ate a unique character.  real sense the spiritual heart of  between leaders -thrives.  
character remains strong and  that all presidents coming to the  The Congregation's official link  the University, and are constantly  
consistent, and both Jenkins and  greatest Catholic university in  to the University is cemented in  trying to attract very bright  Contact Meghanne Downes at  
University PresidlHlt Father  the world certainly have their  Notre Dame!s bylaws, which  young men to jein the community  mdownesl@nd.edu  







